----~-~---------------~-­


Friday, November 12, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 49 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Security hopes for clear field after game 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Viewpoint Editor 
Jill Burdo couldn't breathe. 
"People started tripping over me, and my shoulders got pinned to the ground," she says today. "Then the dogpile started. I thought that my head was going to explode. There was no way for me to get oxygen into my system." 
Burdo was almost crushed on a football field after the team she was rooting for had scored a big win. But that field was not in Wisconsin, and her team was not the Badgers . 
• 
see GAME DAY TRAFFIC, page 2 

• 
see FSU, page 14 


She had just seen Notre Dame beat Penn State in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Burdo was fortunate a year ago this weekend. She was pulled from the pile by a police officer just as she had given up hope. 
"I had resigned myself," she says. "But then the weight began to lift." 
Burdo, who graduated from Saint Mary's last May, suffered numerous injuries, including bruised ribs and broken capillaries in her eyes. Those wounds were temporary. But though she used to have no problem with crowds, she's now terribly claustrophobic. 
And she couldn't bear coming back to Notre Dame for this weekend's matchup with Florida State. 
"I had considered coming to the game, but after I heard what happened at Wisconsin, I decided to stay put," she says. "When the story comes on the TV news, I just can't watch." 
Though the tape is difficult to sit through, what happened in Madison, Wise., has opened every­one's eyes to the dangers of the big win. Coverage of the incident, and the accompanyingcriticism I eve led at the stadi urn security force _S_e_c_u_r-ity_h_a_s-b-e-en_m_a_k-in-g-sa-~-e-ty-pr_e_p_a-ra-t-io_n_s_s_i_nc-e-be-~-o-re--o-c_c_u-rr_e_d_a_f-te_r_N_o_t-re_D_a_m_e_'_s_1_9_9_0_v-ic-t-or-ie-s-ov_e_r_M-ic-h-ig_a_n 
and Wisconsin students, blanketed U.S. sports the incident in Madison. and Miami, as well as last year's Penn State debacle, dur­coverage for the better part of a week. "It was ironic," said Director of Security Rex Rakow. "I ing which some Notre Dame students tried to tear down 
Seventy students were taken to the hospital, 13 had a preliminary meeting the Thursday before the the goalpost in the north end zone. injured critically, in the rush following Wisconsin game with everyone, from the Athletic Rakow's first concern is keeping the Notre Dame student Wisconsin's 13-10 victory over Michigan. Department to South Bend Police, to Student Affairs. section from rushing the field if the Irish win the game. 
Many members of the Notre Dame and Saint "From that meeting, we tried to coordinate our efforts. Announcements will be made throughout the game urging Mary's communities immediately saw the possi-We reviewed what problems we'd had at this stadium spectators to enjoy the post-game celebration from the bility of a similar situation if Notre Dame beat before." bleachers. Florida State this weekend. But Notre Darrie Those problems included similar rushes to the field, as 

The Observer/Jake Peters Rex Rakow, the Director of Notre Dame security, stands beneath the north goalpost in Notre Dame Stadium. Rakow hopes that fans will stay off the field and goalposts after Notre Dame wins Saturday's game against No. 1 Florida State. 


FLORIDA STATE WEEKEND 
Schedule ofEvents 

FRIDAY  
3:00 p.m.  Pre-game pep rally gathering, Morris Inn patio  
4:00 p.m.  Congressman Tim Roemer speaks, Center for Social Concerns  
4:00 p.m.  Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Florida State, Rolf's Aquatic Center  
4:30 p.m.  Marching band rehearsal, Administration Building steps  
6:45 p.m.  Band step-off for pep rally, Band Building  
7:00 p.m.  Pep rally, Joyce Athletic &Convocation Center, Gate 6A  
SATURDAY  
7:30 a.m.  Band rehearsal, step-off at Loftus Sports Center  
9:00 a.m.  Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross Alumni Hospitality Center, JACC  
9:00 a.m.  Pre-game tailgate party and grill, Morris Inn patio  
9:30 a.m.  Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, Center for Social Concerns  
11:00 a.m.  Pompon squad and cheerleading performance, JACC North Dome  
11:30 a.m.  Glee club concert, JACC North Dome  
11 :30 a.m.  Mass, Sacred Heart Crypt  
12:00 p.m.  Shenanigan's performance, JACC North Dome  
12:00 p.m.  Band concert, Administration Building steps  
12:45 p.m.  Band step-off, Administration Building  
1:10 p.m.  Band pre-game performance, Notre Dame Stadium  
1 :35 p.m.  Football kickoff, Notre Dame vs. Florida State, Notre Dame Stadium  
after game  Law School alumni reception, Law School lounge  
after game  Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross all-class reunion, JACC  
45 min. a.g.  Vigil Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart  
7:00 p.m.  "Black Images" variety show, Washington Hall  
SUNDAY  

6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30, 11 :30 a.m. Mass, Crypt Parish Church 8:00, 10:00, 11:45 a.m. Mass, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
10:00 a.m. Mass, St. Joseph's Chapel, Holy Cross College 

Observer graphlciBRENDAN REGAN 
see SECURITY I page 6 

esc continues volunteer services 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Plans for a full-time service center on the Saint Mary's campus are stalled until stu­dent opinion can be measured and the logistics of funding the 
project can be determined. 
The proposed center would be a collaborative effort be­tween the College and the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
With formal space and a staff of both sisters and stu­dents, the Saint Mary's 
Christian Service Center-groups which had separate and minimal office space 
(SMCSC) would bring continu­ity and effectiveness to campus service effort, according to Sister Miriam Cooney, a mem­her of the planning group for the center. 
"If you look at Notre Dame's center (Center for Social Concerns) it is very clear what we lack, a place and a staff," 
Cooney said. 
Members of the planning group indicated that a service center at Saint Mary's is important, not just for the sake of having a center, but because 
it  is  consistent  with  the  
Catholic  mission  and  the  
College's mission.  

The planning group, which 
' 

Service center proposed for SMC 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
t£N~ew!:is\...:W~n'-.!.!'rl<ler~...:......~~---~,.......;------,.;..._j 
1·· 

The Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns, only an idea in the minds of students and professors in 1979, is now the headquarters for more than 30 national and international student volunteer organi· zations. 
The Center was originally established to provide a 
central location for the various Notre Dame service 
on campus. · 
A strong emphasis has always been placed on social service at ND, according to University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, and Notre Dame has shown throughout its history that service is a central part of higher education. 
Hesburgh recalled that only one or two students out of the 3,000 in the student body set aside time for service in 1934. 
f-------~-------------' 
see SERVICE /.page 8 
...... 

developed out of discussions of the Sesquicentennial committee and the Department of Justice Education met bi-weekly all summer to discuss and develop a plan for the service center. 
While the group views the center as a necessity for the College, they also said that the plan should not progress unless students are in favor of the propos­
see CSC I page 8 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, November 12, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Lou won't give up the pot of gold__ 
That leprechaun doing push-ups is an imposter. 
lie's just some senior who's grown a beard, because mom and dad always told him not to. For some reason, he enjoys dressing in Kelly green and ·umping around in end 

zones  from  Philly  to  Rolando de Aguiar  
Pasadena. But he doesn't have a pot of gold.  Viewpoint Editor  
Look down the sideline,  

about fifty yards. Now there's a real lep­rechaun. 
He's the little guy down there. No, not Rudy Huettiger. The other little guy; the frail-looking blonde one wearing the baseball cap. 
llis name's Lou. And he's the luckiest lep­rechaun this side of Limerick. 
Lou's a cynical codger, as leprechauns tend to be. He doesn't smile much, even when his team is 9-0 and second-ranked. He doesn't have much good to say about anyone at any time, except the team the Irish are facing that partic­ular week. Most of his jokes are self-deprecat­ing, and his zany wit leaves everyone convinced that he's not quite from this world. 
When he spits out those jokes, he lisps. That's because he's trying to hide his County Cork brogue. He learned that country drawl from Bobby Bowden back in 1959. Bobby uses the same kind of accent to hide that he, too, is a supernatural creature. Unfortunately for Florida State, he's not quite as lucky as Lou. 
The leprechaun smokes a shillelagh of a pipe, which smells so good that it must be enchanted. If Lou were sitting in a pub in Dublin, he'd be hoisting a pint of Guinness with two hands. You'd know immediately that he was a little person. His feet would be swinging six inches above the floor. 
Even without "Under the Tarnished Dome," we know that Lou's got a nasty leprechaun's temper. Most little guys do. He'll tell anyone what he thinks about his or her shenanigans. 
But he's also got that lucky streak lep­rechauns need to stay in business. Lou's teams win even when just about everyone says they won't. He wins when he just shouldn't be able to. 
When he's coaching, Lou walks down that sideline like someone is trying to catch him. There's a reason: the bad guys are trying to get his pot of gold. 
lie gets a new one every season. In the old days, Knute Hockne's ghost delivered the annu­al gift. But NBC picked up the pot-of-gold option when they signed Notre Dame's $35-million television contract. 
If his team beats Florida State this weekend, Lou will be one giant leprechaun step closer to delivering another pot of gold to the Irish faith­ful. 
lie did it in 1988, when everyone thought his team was a year away from successfully fending off the leprechaun-hunters. Lou kissed the Blarney Stone before this season, too. The Irish have already won more games than most pre­season predictors prescribed for all of 1993. 
Tomorrow. as you see him pacing the side­line, remember that Lou's not nervous. He's not trying to escape John Dockery. Lou's using his leprechaun luck to evade Bobby Bowden and the Seminoles. 
They're after his pot of gold, and he isn't going to give it up. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Production  
Emily Hage  Christopher Mullins  
David Clairmont  Vivian Gembera  
Sports  Allison Ebel  
Jason Kelly  
Accent  
Viewpoint  Lis Heard  
Guy Loranger  Jennifer Guerin  
lab Tech  Graphics  
Kyle Kusek  Brendan Regan  

Th< Obsc:rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mcmhcr of the As~ociarcd Press. All rr-production rights arc reserved. 

Vta Associated Press GraphtcsNel 1Cl1993Accu-Weather.lnc. 

TRAFFIC PATTERN FOR TOMORROW'S FLORIDA STATE FOOTBALL GAME 
One-way traffic patterns will be set up one hour earlier than normal on Saturday at 9:30 a.m. on the roads surrounding the Notre Dame football stadium. Eddy Street heading toward the stadium along South Bend Avenue, Angela Boulevard beginning at Interstate 33, and Juniper Road at the Cleveland Road intersection will follow the one-way pattern. The same routes will lead outbound for an hour after the game. The police will have checkpoints at various intersections to facilitate the process. 
Construction of the DeBartolo Quad and the Eck baseball stadium has eliminated about 1 ,000 parking spaces, with parking shifted to the north end of the stadium near Douglas Road. Blue, Green and White Fields are general parking areas, with parking on a first come, first serve basis. 
North Korea denounces nuclear threat Probe focuses on possible check-kiting 
TOKYO WASIIINGTON 
North Korea said Thursday it will keep to an interna­Federal regulators have prepared nine reports rec­tional nuclear safeguards treaty if the United States ommending possible criminal prosecutions in the failure drops what the hard-line Marxist state calls a hostile pol­of an Arkansas savings and loan with ties to the first icy. The suggestion, carried by the official Korean family, government officials familiar with the case said Central News Agency, was made by Kang Sok Ju, first Thursday. The Justice Department, citing a laek of evi­vice minister of foreign affairs. Kang headed North dence, has already rejected one of the reports that Korea's delegation to recent high-level talks with the alleged a real estate venture once partly owned by United States. The United States, Japan, South Korea President Clinton and his wife was used in a check-kiting and other nations have been trying to persuade North scheme, the officials said, speaking on condition of Korea to accept international inspections of its nuclear anonymity. That report, also known as a criminal re­facilities, as required under the treaty. North Korea is ferral, stated there was no evidence that the Clintons suspected of developing nuclear weapons, despite its were aware of the transactions, the ollicials said. But it repeated denials. Kang's statement said the nuclear dis­detailed dozens of examples of alleged check-kiting that pute can be solved only if "the United States takes a allowed money from the failed Madison Guaranty S&L to practical action of renouncing the nuclear threat and be diverted to various sources in Arkansas, including hostile policy against us." It said the United States and Whitewater Development Corp., the venture owned by North Korea should agree on a "package solution" defin­the Clintons and their friends, James and Susan ing the commitments of each side. "Unacceptable is the McDougal. In addition to the development company, behavior of the United States demanding us to move McDougal also owned the S&L. The referrals touching on first," the statement said. While North Korea insists its friends and associates of the Clintons were prepared by nuclear program is strictly peaceful, suspicions have regulators investigating civil claims involving Madison, deepened because of its refusal to allow international whose 1989 failure cost taxpayers about $47 million. inspections under the safeguards treaty. One result has Lacking the authority to pursue criminal probes, been increasing attention to military preparedness in Hesolution Trust Corp. officials instead forwarded the South Korea. U.S. and South Korean troops plan war reports to federal prosecutors for their consideration. games starting Monday, involving virtually all the 36,000 American military personnel in South Korea and South Largest dinosaur eggs in west unveiled Korea's 650,000 soldiers. 
BOSTON Chronic drinking damage is reversible They traveled 65 million years from the late Cretaceous period in China to the Museum of Science in LONDON Boston. Then, the largest dinosaur egg fossils ever dis­
Contrary to popular belief, chronic drinking does not played in the West came within inches of being crushed kill nerve cells in the brain -it just disconnects them, a by a falling TV spotlight. "I don't think I thought. I think new Danish study shows. The findings, based on detailed I felt-fear," said museum President David W. Ellis, examinations of the brains of alcoholics who died, sug­who was standing by the eggs at Thursday's news con­gest it may be easier than previously thought to restore ference when the light fell. The metal-cased light had brain function damaged by heavy drinking. Dead nerve mainly hit the rim of the display ease and there was no cells do not regenerate and are not replaced in the brain, apparent damage. "Thank God, that's what took the but the fibers that link them will sometimes regrow after brunt of the fall. not the egg itself." Ellis said. The 16 being damaged. "It gives some hope in the sense that it 1/2-inch-long eggs were added to the museum's "The might be possible to restore at least some function" of Dinosaurs of Jurassic Park" exhibit, which introduces the brain, Dr. Bente Pakkenberg, one of the in­people to dinosaur science, piggybacking on the popular­vestigators, said Thursday. She is director of the ity of the hit movie, "Jurassic Park." The eggs, part of a Neurological Research Laboratory at the Bartholin group of 50 recently discovered in China's Henan Institute in Copenhagen, Denmark. The study appears in Province, are the biggest ever discovered, said Don the Nov. 13 issue of the British medical journal Lancet. Lessem, founder of the Dinosaur Society, which orga­"Theirs is a very careful study," said Dr. Timothy Peters, nized the exhibit and promotes dinosaur research and an expert on alcoholism and professor of clinical bio­education. The proceeds of the traveling exhibit, which is chemistry at Kings College in London. "It's very useful expected to raise $1 million, will be used for dinosaur and encouraging to people like ourselves who look after study at that site and others. Lessem said. lie said he people with alcohol problems that the cerebral damage was happy to see the public interest in dinosaurs spurred is potentially reversible." by the movie. 

INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Nov. 12 Accu-Weathor"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

d 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 60° I 
•
ILL. 


V~.t Associaled Press 

H  L  Columbus  56  24  Palatine  50  35  
Atlanta  65  41  Dallas  65  54  Paris  54  50  
Athens  72  59  Los Angeles  70  60  Philadelphia  56  36  
Baltimore  59  31  Miami  64  76  San Franc1sco  62  54  
Boston  55  35  Minneapolis  40  20  Seanle  52  37  
Charlone  62  43  Moscow  16  03  Toronto  51  26  
Chicago  51  34  New York  56  39  Washington. D.C.  59  35  

Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND professor awarded 
Special to The Observer 
Arvind Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineer­ing at Notre Dame, has been named recipient of the R.H. Wilhelm Award in Chemical Reaction Engineering by the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE). 
Varma, a Notre Dame faculty member since 1975, conducts research in chemical and cat­alytic reaction engineering and advanced materials synthesis. He is the author of more than 130 technical publications on these subjects and has co-edit­ed two books. 
A native of India, Varma holds a master's degree from the University of New Brunswick and a doctorate from the University of Minnesota. He was a senior re­search engineer with the Union Carbide Corp. for two years be­fore joining the Notre Dame faculty. From 1983-88, he chaired the University's chemi­cal engineering department, and in 1985 he was named Arthur J. Schmitt professor. 
A fellow of the American Institute of Chemists, Varma has received the National Research Council Student Fellowship, an Indo-American Fellowship Fulbright Scholar Award, and Notre Dame's College of Engineering Teacher of the Year and special Notre Dame Presidential awards. 


SAINT MARY'S 

ALL-SCHOOL OPEN FORUM 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15 8":00PM-10PM, CARROLL AUDITORIUM 
JOIN SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS & FACULTY FOR A PRESENTATION ON THE USE OF THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE AND QUESTIONS & COMMENTS ABOUT: SAINT MARY'S CHRISTIAN SERVICE CENTER, KEENAN REVIEW, THE OBSERVER, DEPARTMENTAL COMPREHENSIVE REQUIREMENTS, THE SESQUICENTENNIAL YEAR, AND MUCH MORE. SPONSORED BY SAINT MARY'S BOARD OF GOUE:RNANCE 
~­
.....-----------·­
The Observer/ John Bingham 

In honor of the heroic departed 
Distinguished guests shown here at yesterday's Veterans' Day retreat ceremony are, left to right, Gen. 1onald Fo Ieman, Col. and Mrs. Thomas Moe, Father Oliver Williams, and Col. Ta lor. 


Video outlines NCAA regulations 
ByJOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
In an effort to better educate Notre Dame student and alum­ni athletes on National Collegiate Athletic Association regulations, the Alumni Association, with the Athletic Department, has produced an 18-minute video giving an overview of these policies. 
"The athletic director and administration decided that there had to be another way to promote the educating of stu­dent athletes and alumni about NCAA rules," said Mike Karwoski, the athletic depart­ment's NCAA compliance assis­tant. 
The video, which is the first of its kind in the nation, out­lines NCAA rules regarding eli­gibility, drug testing, financial aid, and contact with alumni. 

Meet Author 

Murray Sperber 
Friday, Nov. 12th 2:00 to 3:30 Saturday, Nov. 13th 10:00 to 12:00 Will autograph New Book 
"Shake Down the Thunder" 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Hours: Friday Nov. 12th 9to7 Saturday, Nov. 13th 8 to 6 
Its primary purpose lies in informing student-athletes of applicable regulations before they sign the "Student-Athlete Statement," a document all ath­letes must sign as a pledge to abide by NCAA rules. 
In addition, alumni watching the video will gain a better sense of what it is like to be an athlete at Notre Dame, as well as what they can and can not do, Karwoski said. 

Although the Alumni Association already produces a pamphlet entitled "Contact Is Prohibited," the video was an effort to enhance alumni awareness about what kind of contacts with student-athletes are impermissible, said Alumni Association representative Peter Pranica Pranica, produc­er of the video. 
"Our motto here is 'We'rB only one alumni away from a major scandal,"' Pranica said. Pranica said the video was one more way of upgrading alumni education. 
"We want to do the best job we can educating our boost­ers," he said. "The status quo is not enough -we always want 
to take education to the next 
level." 
Instead of merely reading off 

the rules, one by one, the video 
combines the education aspect 

with music and highlights from 
Notre Dame sports, as well as 

statements by Notre Dame 
coaches. 

In representing several dif­ferent athletic programs, the film features past and present Notre Dame athletes Ed ·Hartwell, Matthew Osiecki, Ragen Coyne, and Tim Ruddy each emphasizing aspects of 
the life of a student-athlete. 
In the past, Assistant Athletic 
Director Missy Conboy spent an 
hour with each varsity team, 
outlining and reviewing the 
procedures and regulations of 
the NCAA. 
The process was "boring" for 
many student-athletes, 
Karwoski said. "The video goes 
quicker, is more interesting, 
and sinks in better," he added. 
Syracuse, Florida State and 
the NCAA, as well, have 
received copies of the video, 
and are interested in imple­
menting the format to enhance 
their alumni education. 


--------------SPRING'? 
1
~101\IEN~S VOICESFllf)l\1 1 HJ~ (;ltEC<>-ROA\AN l~Sl~ Prof. Liz Fot·his, Dept. of Clas~ical and ()riental Lang-uage~ Tue~.-Thus. 2:45-4 :oo I'· n1. ( :ta~~i .. ~ 359 En~.di~h 315(: Cendt•r Studit·~ 359 · 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 12, 1993 



75 years ater, Wor War I armistice commemorated 
By PATRICK McDOWELL 
Associated Preu 
He was chosen from thou­sands of nameless dead, vic­tims of machine-gun fire, artillery explosions and poison gas who littered the horrifying battlefields of the Somme in World War I. 
Australia exhumed him from a cemetery in northern France last week and buried him in his homeland on Thursday, the 75th anniversary of the armistice that ended four years of carnage that claimed 12 million lives. 
"The unknown soldier ... by his deeds, proved that real nobility and grandeur belongs not to empires and nations but to the people on whom they, in the last resort, always depend," Prime Minister Paul Keating, one of the pall­bearers, said in a televised eulogy watched by millions of his countrymen. 
In ceremonies Thursday before a dwindling band of survivors, the victorious nations who lost a generation of young men in World War I marked the 75th anniversary of the armistice that endod the bloodshed. 
Church bells pealed in Paris and Big Ben chimed in London at 11 a.m.. the symbolic hour when the machine guns and artillery finally fell silent on the Western Front on Nov. 11, 1918. 
The entombment of Australia's unknown soldier in the capital. Canberra, was the most dramatic event. Hundreds of thousands of sol­diers in World War I were list­ed as "missing," a euphemism for saying they were blown apart beyond recognition or 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE "BREATHTAKING! 
:\superbly picturesque epic love story." 
Susan Cran~er, CH!'i & ,o\,\IEHICAN :\IUVIE CLASSICS 
MAP OF THE 
HLIMAN...HEART 
A Fll M BY VINCENT WARD 
~. <n:r..,., m"" ~ 

disappeared under shell· tossed mud. "I saw so many ghosts of my friends." said Maj. Stephen 
. McKenzie, 99, who was one of 14 World War I veterans at the entombment. Some 60,000 Australians died in the First World War. 
The war pitted France and Britain and their empires, Russia. Italy, the United States and Japan against Germany and its allies, the Austro­Hungarian Empire, comprising most of modern eastern Europe, and the Ottoman Empire -modern Turkey and the Middle East. 
Of the tens of millions of sol­diers who fought in World War 
I. perhaps 10,000 are still · alive. 
In France, Prime Minister Edouo.rd Balladur laid a wreath at Armistice Clearing in a forest north of Paris, where the cease-fire was signed in a railroad car by the Allied victors and defeated Germany. 
"Peace is never fully won," Balladur said. "It can only be the fruit of unceasing work." 
Earlier, President Francois Mitterrand knelt at the tomb of France's unknown soldier at the Arc de Triomphe. France lost 1.3 million men in the war. or one in six of those mobilized, the highest percent­age of any army. 
She was 18 years old when joyous crowds flooded London's streets at news of the war's end. Thursday, she leaned on an umbrella and chatted with a few survivors, some more than 100 years old. 
One of them, Henry Tinsey, 95, recalled helping his father trim trees while home on leave. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9: 
S'ELLS 
BOSE • B&W • CARVER • KENWOOD ATLANTIC TECHNOLOGY • CWO • ONKYO DR. CRANKENSTEIN • PRECISION POWER VMPS • TARGET • GRADO LABS • APATURE BLAUPUNKT • ROCK SOLID & MANY MORE! 



Clinton says 'keep our nation secure' 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton, a college­age foe of the Vietnam War, saluted American veterans Thursday and said the United States must never shrink from what's necessary "to keep our nation secure and our people prosperous." 
Beginning with a breakfast for leaders of veterans' groups in the East Room and ending with a visit to a veterans' hospi­tal in West Virginia, Clinton de­voted the day to paying homage to those who served in the mili­tary. 
"A grateful nation remem­bers," the president said at Arlington National Cemetery after placing a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknowns. 
He called attention to the presence of 17 Army Rangers who took part in the fire fight in Somalia in which 18 Americans were killed Oct. 3. 

Praising their "great ability. success and unbelievable valor," Clinton said, "We are proud of them." The audience stood and applauded. 
Clinton later visited the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Martinsburg, W. Va., and said America can pay part of its debt to veterans by assuring them comprehensive health care under his national plan. 
"We know we have a moral obligation to protect their secu­rity," Clinton said. "I wanted to come here to this hospital today to drive that point home." 
Clinton's relations with the military, strained by his avoid­ance of the draft as a young man, were aggravated by his efforts to lift the ban on homo­sexuals. With the end of the Cold War, he also has had to oversee a shrinking of military forces and cutbacks in military spending. 
He also said he had fulfilled his pledge to declassify virtually all documents related to Americans missing in action or held as prisoner in Vietnam. 


"We are being asked to de­cide whether we will maintain the high state of readiness that stood behind our victory or frit­ter away the seed corn of our security," he said. 
He also said the nation is be­ing "asked whether we will swell the global tide of freedom by promoting democracy and open world markets," a timely reference as the House nears a hard-fought vote on the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
"To honor those who served in Europe and Korea and Vietnam and the Persian Gulf, in scores of posts at home and abroad, let us today resolve we will not shrink from the re­sponsibilities necessary to keep our nation secure and our peo­ple prosperous," the president said. 

MICHIANA'S BEST SELECTION OF USED EQUIPMENT 
TRADE-INS WANTED 
EXPERT ADVICE • LOWEST PRICES VISA • MASTERCARD • LAYAWAYS 
AUDIO EXCHANGE JMS PLAZA • GRAPE RD. 273-9607 

Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Voices of Faith gospel choir presents annual winter concert 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
ourselves, as individuals and as Accent Editor a group." Swinton said she can sense a This Sunday a different form difference in the choir since the 
of praise will occur as Voices of retreat but that things have Faith gospel choir presents been so hectic for the concert, their annual winter concert, that the success may not be "Why We Sing," at Washington immediately apparent. 
Hall at 7 p.m. "Although we are really busy The choir has spent the past and anxious right now, I know semester preparing for the con­the effects of the retreat have cert. With two-hour practices made things go smoothly," she every Friday and engagements said. 
at a variety of churches on The members of the choir will Sundays, choir membersaid be working harder for their that they are ready to "deliver tour in the spring of 1994. With God's message in song," said the help of alumni associations junior Katara Walker, secretary . in various areas of the south, of Voices of Faith. Voices of Faith will perform at 
The 45-member choir will churches and colleges in places perform ten songs in two acts, such as Baton Rouge and New and a live band, including two Orleans, Louisiana, Jackson, 
keyboard players, a drummer, Mississippi and Memphis, a konga player, a saxophonist Tennessee. 
The Observer/ T.J. Harris
and a bassist, will assist them. ve·~~hJ~ff~~~~t~~ts~l~~~Jir~ct~~ The Voices of Faith gospel choir prepares for its annual winter concert at Washington Hall on Sunday at 7 p.m. 
Thomas Steele. "We put a lot of over 100 have been sold energy, devotion and time into already, the majority of which it and I believe everything will were sold before home football be successful. Anyone who games. Raffle tickets will also comes out will truly enjoy be sold at the door and winners themselves -by listening to will be announced towards the our music and joining in our end of intermission. praise." Prizes include a VCR, Sega 
During intermission, the choir Genesis and movie passes. will conduct a raffle. The choir Winners do not have to be pre­has been selling tickets for $2 sent to retrieve their prize. each since the beginning of the Also available for the first year. Walker estimates that time are Voices of Faith t-shirts. These will be sold at the bonding. We really united as a door of Washington Hall as well choir and that made us strong for $12 ($14 for XXL). in our overall singing." 
The raffle and t-shirts are just With 40 participants this a few of many additions Voices year, co-director Sharmien of Faith has made this year. Swinton hopes it will become This year marks the first for the tradition, attracting even more choir's Faith and Unity retreat. members. 
"I believe the retreat had "We were able to see each really made a difference," said other in a different light and Walker. "We stressed coopera-deal with each other on a dif­tion and involvement, had in-ferent level," Swinton said. "We tense prayer and emotional were able to solely focus on 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pro~ssorsinst~ledinchairs 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· 
COPELAND BOVEE PRODUCTIONS 

JOHN DENSMORE Drummer for THE IHMtll LIVE IN CONCERT! 
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7:00p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 211 North Michigan Street, South Bend 
An eclectic night of private film footage, conversation, and live music with John Densmore, founding member and drummer for 
'111E IMMMta 

Reserved Seating $12 
Tickets available at MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE and usual area outlets or by PHONE at 235-9190 or 1-800-537-6415 
DOOWI fans! Stay after for a free booksigning reception & MEET JOHN DENSMORE 
Special to the Observer 

·Two Notre Dame professors were installed in endowed fac­ulty chairs and one chair was inaugurated during ceremonies Monday of this week. 
Raimo Vayrynen was in­stalled as John M. Regan, Jr. director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. He has done extensive research on nuclear weapons. military industrialization, international political economy, conflict reso­
lution and the r~e ofregion~­
ism. Vayrynen holds a doctor­ate in political science from the University of Tampere and he assumed directorship of the 
®Mi~-~~w~· 
1:15,3:15,5:15,7:15,9:15 
"Why We Sing" is an appro­priate theme song for this year according to Steele. "This year we are stressing the fact that we are not here solely to enter­tain, but to deliver God's words through singing. Many people don't understand gospel singing is another form of praise. We invite others within the Notre Dame community to enjoy and participate in our praise." 
Tickets will be sold at the doors $3 for students and $5 for general admission. 
Tampere Peace Research Institute in 1972. 
Seamus Deane was installed as Donald and Marilyn Keough professor of Irish studies, a chair inaugurated Onday at the ceremony. Widely considered the world's foremost scholars of Irish culture and literature, Deane was educated at Queen's University in Belfast and at Cambridge University. 
Marilyn Mulhall Keough is a graduate of Duchesne College and Academy of the Sacred Heart. She has been active in volunteer work all of her life, including Junior League, Forward Arts of Atlanta, and Spelman College. 


JOHN TRAVOLTA ~ 
1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30 Friday, November 12, 1993 

Martzke predicts ND victory 
By NANCY DUNN regular season, he said. 
! 
NewsWrirer Martzke discussed the his­tory of Notre Dame football and Notre Dame will win a close the importance of it to the suc­


r 
r 
~ 
f 
r 
' 
The Observer/ Kathy Daly 
Notre Dame students attempt to tear down the stadium goalpost after last year's win over Penn State. 
one over Florida State, accord­ing to Hudy Martzke, USA Today's premiere sports colum­nist and one of The Sporting News' 100 Most Powerful People in sports. 
FSU does not understand that as much as they are fa­vored, "they have never been in this setting here," said Martzke. It will not be a high scoring game, he said. Notre Dame will have a 21-14 lead late in the fourth quarter, pre­dicted Martzke. FSU will drive and score, and then go for a two point conversion to win the game, but "JeiT Burris is gonna knock it down." 
"We have all seen this hap­pen." When it counts Notre Dame has won the big game. Lou Holtz is 7-1 in big games after an off week during the cess of today's program. Under Gerry Faust, Notre Dame became an embarrassment, repeatedly losing to teams it. should have beaten. 
Notre Dame also learned a lesson from Frank Leahy. "Notre Dame was actually too good", said Martzke, and moved "too far over on the hate side of the meter." 
Lou Holtz brought Notre Dame back in the right way, said Martzke. He has managed to not win too many, and thus too successful, joked Martzke. 
Notre Dame brings a nation­al flavor to the game. It will always have its name, a good coach, and one of the top two or three recruiting classes, said Martzke. It does not need to let go of its traditional football rivalries and join a conference 




Security 
continued from page 1 
''I'm really concerned about what will happen after the game, especially if people in the higher rows start pushing forward," said Hakow. confi­dent that the Irish will dump the first-ranked Seminoles, but apparently unsure that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents will act maturely enough to keep themselves ofT the field when that happens. "Unlike Wisconsin, we've got this brick wall around the field to contend with." 
Many of the injured people in Madison were crushed against a thick iron railing which even­tually collapsed under the weight of the crowd. At Notre Dame stadium, a thr.ee-foot high wall separates the crowd from the playing field. 
"Basically we tried to prevent students from coming over the wall (against Penn State)," said head usher Art James. "But sometimes it's better that they just get to the field." 
Hakow acknowledges that a flood of people to the field is a much bettnr alternative than a sea of bodies crushed against the wall. But he wants to make sure that students stay in their seats in the first place. 
"We can't hold back 6,000 
people," said Hakow. "But we 
are going to have a lot of ush­
ers and police convincing peo­
ple not to leave the stands." 
If fans get to the field, though, the north end zone's post might be their next goal. 
Tearing down the goalposts after a big win is a tradition which has lately become dead­ly. Goalposts today can easily kill anyone stuck beneath them. According to Rakow, two peo­ple have been killed beneath collapsing goalposts, and dozens injured, during the last ten years. 
In case fans do climb down to the field, Hakow wants to make sure that no one tries to bring down the massive metal struc­tures at the back of each end­zone. 
"If people do try to climb the goalpost, they will be arrested," said Rakow. 
"That tradition goes back to when goalposts were made of pretty flimsy wood material, and they were easy to replace. But now, they weigh 1,000 pounds, and they don't discrim­inate when they decide to hit someone." 
Last year at Penn State, the goalposts stayed up. But in a bigger rush, after a bigger game, the outcome might be 
~...I' OLJR LABOR·\TORIES YOL!'LL 'FINU GIRAFFES, DOLPHINS, 
A CORAL Rf;Ef: A RAINFOREST. 
With SFS you can study critical environmental issues worldwide including: 
• 
Wildlife Management in Kenya 


• Marine Ecology in the Caribbean 
• 
Rainforest Dynamics in Australia 

• 
Marine Mammals in Baja Mexico 

• 
Sustainable Development in Costa Rica 


College Financial Credit Aid 
For more information on Semester & Summer field research courses, come to: 
SFS SLIDE PRESENTATION AT ND Monday, November 15, 4:00 Lafortune -Sorin Room (1st Floor) GO IRISH!!! 
or WfiiC': SFS, !lox A, 16 Broadway, Be•-erly, MA 01915, (508) 927-7777 
THE SCHOOL FOR FIELD 8rUDIES 
THE WORLD IS YOUR CLASSROOM 

worse than it was for anyone at -;.-------:·-·-i Wisconsin, or for Jill Burdo. I Can't Believe It's ''I'm sorry it took Wisconsin 
~ 50¢ 0 F F Yoggrtf.
to make people realize that 
people can be hurt," says I 
Burdo. "This isn't a once-in-a­1YouR NExT WAFFLE CoNE! 
CAMPUs SHOPPEs 1837 SOUTH BEND AVENUE

lifetime event. It happens too 
I I v SOUTH B£ND. INDIANA 46637 

The Golf Shop at Notre Dame Located just off 31 N. ncar WNDU "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial Notre Dame gifts for every occasion (219) 631-6425 
Visit the uSATELLITE SHOP" at the JACC 
Open before, durlng & lifter the gllme 
often." 

'A Great Way to get tuqether with Friends or spend Fl Ramantic Evening with Someone SpecjaJ"
IWHAT KIND OF FONDUE 
i DO WE OFFER? I 

i cheese•bcef•chicken ' sealood•vegetable• 1 · Flaming chocolate 
GO ND! BEAT FSU! 
'!Z Resenrat•ons Recoow-•d # 
219-255-1526 .~ 

Tues · Ttlurs \)P.atmg ~p.m -9p rn F" & i>at. C>eallng 5p.m.·1 0 p r11 
IOOCENTER•M!SHAWAKA 1:--; 
Upper Leve! Otcl Brewery Bldg 
Offer expire~ 11 19. '93 .Limir one coupon per customer. Not valid with any other promotion or coupon. ~~ ffi ~ .J 
THURS., FRI., SAT., NOV. 11, 12, 13 AT 8 P.M. SUN., NOV. 14 AT 2:30P.M. MOREAU CENTER/UTILE THEATRE 
---f!J----~-­

TICKETS $4 SM'S-ND COMMUNITIES: 
Saint Mary's Colle~ 
$3 STUDENTS: ON SALE AT THE 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 

SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE: INFORMATION, CHARGE ORDERS: 219/284-4626. 



NOTRE DAME 
THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 

-------------__...,----·-----~--------~---~ ~---­
-----------------~----------­
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sperber: Management lifts ND sports Evaluations faulted for 
By SARAH DORAN Assistant News Editor  tities from their universities, and because of this, they are  merous pieces of evidence he found in the University's li­ sexism and gender bias  
able to run up the huge finan­ brary's keeping that substanti­ 
Notre Dame is an exception in  cial deficits, whereas Notre  ated Rockne's betting habits,  By MARSHALL ENOS  commented that many students  
the realm of college sports  Dame athletic programs do not  which included betting on his  News Writer  do not realize the weight given  
mainly because of the man­ lose money, he said.  own football team.  the TCEs when faculty are un­ 
agement of its athletic depart­ But, the scope, power, and  "Rockne had to outsmart his  Sexism and gender bias were  der evaluation.  
ment, according to Murray  success of the Notre Dame ath­ opponents not only on the field,  evident in the 1993 Teacher  According to those faculty  
Sperber, author of the recently  letic department are in large  but off the field as well," he  Course Evaluations, according  members who were present,  
released book "Shake Down the  part due to the efforts of foot­ said.  to members of yesterday's dis­ the TCEs, although not a major  
Thunder." which chronicles  ball coach Knute Rockne, he  But, Sperber said, Rockne's  cussion group, but the respon­ part of the -evaluation, were  
University athletics during the  said. Yet, as Sperber's research  genius was like that of no other  sibility for bias was not leveled  carefully considered, especially  
Knute Rockne era.  indicated, the true Rockne is  coach.  against  the  University  but  when dealing with junior fac­ 
Because of the strong power  not the same as  the man who  "He was obsessed with win­ against students themselves.  ulty who did not have tenure.  
of Notre Dame's vice president.  was characterized as the film  ning games,  promoting his  The issues discussed at the  According to the group, TCEs  
the position of athletic director  "Knute Rockne All-American,"  team, and promoting himself,"  round  table  discussion,  are also important because the  
does not reflect the degree of  he said.  he said.  "Rockne was an en­ "Gender and Teacher Course  evaluations remain part of the  
autonomy often seen at other  "The Rockne of the letters I  trepreneurial genius."  Evaluations"  included  the  permanent record of the faculty  
colleges, he said.  found is about 180 degr.ees  Sperber also said that the  question, "Is gender bias ev­ person under evaluation.  
Athletic departments of col­ from the Rockne  we  hear of  University was extremely coop­ ident  in  Teacher  Course  According to Peter Seldin in  
leges in the Big 10 conference  everyday," he said.  erative in helping him locate  Evaluations  (TCEs)?"  The  an article from "The Chronicle  
function almost as separate en­ ;>perber expanded about nu- the information used in his  overwhelming response· from  of Higher Education," which  
book.  the majority was yes.  was  distributed at the meeting,  

"They were nothing but help­

To understand how this 86 per cent of higher education ful in pointing me in the right charge of gender bias could institutions use student ratings
direction, even when they be­
arise there were a number of when evaluating teachers. came aware that I was finding conditions concerning the TCEs The group dealt with the sec­
PUIILIICE 
information that was overturn­
that were considered by the ond condition at hand, that 
ing legends," he said. "There group. Some group members female faculty members were
.4 CHAMPION 
not being rated on their ability
TfJ/MII 
The ltlotto That ltlotfvates • 
Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 
Distributed by:

1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. Michiana residents 
209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
Look for theN' Image Logo on the tag. lt"s your guarantee of qualrty. Why settle for second best7 
Play Uke a Chaml'lon Today. "'pending 

t-lappy 21st Bidhday "Rocket"! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, 5~Ae1 Steve al'\d 3ackie 

to teach but rather on the basis of their sex. 
It was explained during the meeting that a critical review of the TCEs showed that gender bias was manifested statistical­ly when an evaluation of last year's ICEs revealed that female faculty members scored much lower as a group than did their male counterparts. 
"The only two conclusions that could be reached by this discussion is that either female faculty at Notre Dame are sub­standard, which is not the case obviously, or that students are sexually biased when rating teacher performance," said one member of the discussion. 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK  EDUC  324  27 #8427  -Add restriction:  Majors only  
EDUC  340F 28 #8428  -Add restriction: Majors only  
COURSES ADDED  EDUC  350F 30 #8430  -Add restrict~on:  Majors only  
AME  700  02 #5793  Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr hr.  EDUC  370  40 #8440  -Add restriction: Majors only  
AME  700 03 #5794  Nonresident Dissertation Research; 1 cr.  EDUC  370 42 #8442  -Add restriction: Majors only  
hr.  EDUC  475  66 #8466  -Add restriction: Majors only  
ANTH  488X 02 #5795  Dir Rsrch in Bioarchaeology II; 3 cr.  ECON  123A 01#5094  -Change time to:  MW 01:15-02:05  
hrs. ;Permission Required; by invitation only  ECON  123T 01 #5061  -Change time to:  F 01:15-02:05  
EE  464  01 #5787  Intro to Neural Networks; 3 cr. hrs.; TH  ECON  123T 02 #5062  -Change time to:  F 01:15-02:05  
11:00-12: 15; cross-listed with CSE 472  ECON  123T 03 #5063  -Change time to:  F 01:15-02:05  
EE  563  01 #5784  Stochastic Process; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission  ECON  123T 04 #5064  -Change time to:  F 01:15-02:05  
Required  OOVT  423  01 #5777  -Add prerequisite: OOVT 141 or 341  
ENOL  440M 01 #5791  Shakespeare in Performance II; 4 cr. hrs.;  OOVT  431  01 #5202  -Add prerequisite: OOVT 141 or 341  
MWF 11: 15-12:30; Permission Required;  HIST  685  01 #5288  -Change days and time to:  M 04:30-07:00  
cross-listed with COTH 440  liPS  679A 01#4069  -Change time to:  TH 12:45-02:00  
OOVT  474  01 #5782  Conflict Resolution -Theory and Practice; 3  liPS  679B 01 #4068  -Change time to:  TH 12:45-02:00  
cr. hrs.; W 02:30-05:00; Junior and Senior  LAW  679A 01#4067  -Change time to:  TH 12:45-02:00  
majors only through 3rd period; then open  LAW  679B 01 #4070  -Change time to:  TH 12:45-02:00  
to all Juniors and Seniors; cross-listed with  MARK  231B 01 #0663  -Change days and time to:  H 02:45-05:15  
liPS 4740  MBA  645  01 #2069  -Change credit hours and begiinning and  
OOVT  496  01 #5783  -Social Concerns Seminar: Washington; 1 cr  ending dates to:  3, 01112/94-04/27/94  
hr.; Permission Required contact Center for  ME  439  01 #1929  -Change exam type to:  D  
Social Concerns; cross-listed with THEO  ME  445  01 #0230  -Delete ME 340 as a prerequisite  
363  MI  525  01 #5324  -Title should be:  "Topics: Early  
liPS  4740  01#5785  -Conflict Resolution  -Theory and Practice;  Christianity"  
3 cr.  hrs.; W 02:30-05:00; Permission  MI  673  01 #5340  -Change time to:  W 02:30-05:00  
Required; cross-listed with OOVT 474  PSY  453  01 #5420  -Add Permission Required  
MSA  574 01 #5788  Auditing Theory and Practice; 3 cr. hrs.; TH  ROFR  451  01 #5453  -Course is taught in French  
01:15-02:30; cross-listed with ACCT 475  THEO  584 01 #2730  -Change time to:  W 11:20-12:35  
PHYS  448  01 #5790  Senior Seminar II; 1 cr. hr.; M 03:25-4:15  THEO  593C 01 #3506  -Change time to:  W 02:35-04:35  
THEO  500C  01 #5789  Faith and Tradition II; 3 cr. hrs.; H 08:30­ THEO  616  01 #5575  -Change day to:  H 09:30-12:00  
10:30; Permission Required  THEO  673  01 #5578  -Change time to:  W 02:30-05:00  
THEO  680 01 #2982  -Change time to:  MW 12:50-02:05  
CHANGES  COURSES CANCELLED  
ANTH ARCH ARCH CAPP CHEO COMM  473 01 #4978 246 01 #1116 598A 01#1251 470 01 #3155 327 01 #2533 304 28 #9728  -Add Permission Required Change times to: TH 11:00-12:15 Change days and time to: W 06:30 09:30; remove Permission Required Add Permission Required Change days and time to: TH 11:00­12:15 Remove Permission Required and  #3859 #5769 #5145 #5140 #5141 #5777 #5234  EE 498A-01 EE 498J-01 ENOL 409-01 ENOL 440A-01 ENOL 440B-01 GOVT 423-01 OOVT 670-01  #5285 #5778 #0947 #3631 #4782 #5490 #1453  :.  HIST 664-01 liPS 4230-01 ME498C-01 ROSP 212-02 sc 456-01 soc 670-01 THEO 366-0I­ 
COMM 313  
COTH  361  01 #5781  -Add prerequisite:  COTH 101, 104, 201  
or204  
COTH  468  01 #3800  Change time to:  MW 02:20-04:50  

---------------~-~----~ -----­
page 8 

Service 
continued from page I 
at. 
"Our intention is to turn as much of this over to the stu­dents as possible, but its not like we can blow a whistle and assemble the student body to get their opinion," said Joe lncandela, a member of the planning group. "We think the idea is a good one and one that should work at Saint Mary's." 
"This center, we really hope, is for students and by stu­dents," he added. 
Proposals were presented to College President William Hickey and Congregation President Sister Catherine O'Brian in late-October. No of­ficial response has been re­ceived from either president yet. 
The planning group also pre­sented the proposal to the Board of Governance (BOG). asking for the members of stu­dent government to sign a pe­tition in support of the center. 
While BOG members sup­ported the idea of the center and said there was a need for it, they didn't sign the petition citing that they felt that the funding portions of the proposal were not researched enough, according to Student Body President MaryBeth Wilkinson. 
"I think that it (the SMCSC) 
esc 
continued from page I 
Since then, the numbers of dedicated students has grown dr1;1-matically. Kathy Royer, co­ordinator for social activities groups through the esc. esti­mates that well over 2,000 stu­dents volunteer each year through the center. 
"Over time, more students have realized that helping oth­ers is part of growing up, and that you grow by helping others while you make a difference in their lives," llesburgh said. 
SECURITY BEAT 
TUES., NOV. 9 
1:00 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism to a computer in the Hesburgh Library. 
2:40 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of a dlskman from his room which occurred over Fall break. 
2:45 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his student ticket book from his desk drawer. His room was unlocked and unattended at the time of the theft. 
5:30 p.m. An off-campus student was cited for Improper passing on Douglas Road. 
8:45 p.m. A University Village resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 

WED., NOV. 10 
1:48 a.m. A Farley Hall resident reported the theft of her student ticket book from her dresser. Her room was unlocked and unat· tended at the time of the theft. 
3:14 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re· ported the theft or his student ticket book. 
4:00 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of his license plate while parked in the Hesburgh Library circle. 
5:49 p.m. Security apprehended a ju· venlle on Notre Dame Avenue while he was attempting to steal a bicycle. The ju· venile was issued a trespass warning let· ter. The Investigation is continuing into this 
case. 
The Observer • NEWS 
will come about," Wilkinson said. "but planning about the financial aspects needs to be more precise." 
BOG is concerned that the fig­ures in the budget portion of the proposal are all even rounded numbers and that it seemed that a large financial burden of the funding would fall on the College, according to Wilkinson. 
While the College is asked in the proposal to provide space, equipment and personnel from its budget and fundraising re­sources, lncandela said that it was never the group's intention to burden the College with fi­nancial responsibilities for the project. 
"We always had plans to go through the development office for the funding," lncandela said. "There are also lots of donors out there and lots of foundation grants that we would like to apply for." 
Incandela also said that there was a hope in the group that the center would be eligible for grants given yearly by the Congregation to charities, or­ganizations and centers around the world. 
Planners of the proposal say that while they have made mis­takes in their approach to determining student support and defining the means of fund­ing, the most important thing now is for them to get the word out about the project and their intentions. 
"What has happened is a little bit of the momentum has been lost, petitions are just laying there," lncandela said. "There are certain procedures that govern things like what chan­nels you need to go through, that we weren't following and people stopped things." 
The group now wants to move on and hopes that the students will express there questions, concerns and opinions about the SMCSC at Monday's Student Government Open Forum, according to lncandela. 
BOG hopes that discussion of the center will occur at the fo­rum, where they plan to make the petitions of support avail­able for student support as well, according to Wilkinson. 
Two sites for the center were also included in the proposal. The group indicated the space in the lower levels of the Dining Hall and Holy Cross Hall as pos­sible options. 
Holy Cross is the preferred location, according to Cooney, because it would require the least amount of renovation, and it also has a historic connection to the convent. 
The SMCSC hopes to distin­guish itself from the esc in two ways-by bringing in a focus on women and family consistent with the mission of Saint Mary's and providing an integral role for students to play in the cen­ter, according to Cooney. 
M.J. Murray Vachon, class of '82 said that a separate center 

Friday, November 12, 1993 
at Saint Mary's is important. 
"There are many wonderful service things that are already going on at Saint Mary's, the purpose of the center is to cen­tralize and build on opportuni­ties," said Murray who also is employed part-time at the esc. "I think the center could collab­orate (with the CSC) where col­laboration is possible." 
For those involved with ser­vice at Saint Mary's currently, much effort must be made on the students part, or they must go to the esc. according to Class of '92 graduate Therese Johnson. 
"Anyone who wants to facili­tate service at Saint Mary's has to go a mile further," said Johnson who wrote over 40 let­ters and spent much time be­tween her junior and senior year to secure a summer ser­vice project with Saint Mary's alumnae. "Any service at Saint Mary's would really help the campus." 

Friends Don•t Let Friends Drive Drunk 





~I 
9~ 
fl] Chint!se Rl!staurant 
Open 7 Days A Week 
Sun -Thurs-11:30 a.m.-9:30 p.m. Fri & Sat-11:30 a.m.-10:30 p.m. :-t Mon-Sat-Lunch Special-11:30 a.m.-3 p.m. ~~-=::-~unday Buffet-1_1:30 a.m.~3 p.m. 
\ {~• Carry Out Servtee ,~ •Largest Dine-In Chinesel':. Restaurant In Town 
~ ~~ • 2 Separate Banquet Rooms ~ ;/1~~ 
+

i(~' 
~·:DJ] 
N 
McK.nlcy/US 20 
255 ..6868 
313 W. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka 
This Year Give the Gift of Tradition: A Notre Dame Memory 
Limited Edition Hawfcolored '.:Prints 
Ken David .'On Sale 
Room-LaFortune 
TRACKS WELCOMES 

GIANT RECORDING 
ARnSTS: 
ig Head Todd and: 




be Monsters ) 
To Notrt! DiUllt! No•'t!l11ber 15 


Hundre~:~~Y9.99 cosli 

In addition to providing ser­vice to thousands on a national and an international basis, the esc has spent the past decade working closer to home around the communities of South Bend. 
An estimated 2,500 students participate annually in the "Christmas in April" program, which helps South Bend resi­dents through various commu­nity projects, said Hesburgh. 
"Many people have been im­pacted by the things done here, and Christmas in April is just one esc program that has shown Notre Dame to be a car­ing community," Hesburgh said. 
"The only thing you have in your hands when you meet God is what you have given away," said Hesburgh. 
The original proposal for the center was heard and eventu­ally approved by University of­ficers and Hesburgh in 1982. 
The Center was strongly sup­ported by Hesburgh, a veteran of service, who worked closely with John F. Kennedy and his staff to develop a pilot project which began the Peace Corps in 1960. 

IN Campo• ShoppH 
277-8338 
Get Bh! Head Todd & the Monsters debut album on Giant USISTER SWEETLY•• for $13.99 and TRACKS will !live YOU a FREE COPY of 
1 
their 3 Soru! samPler ..LIUf••. Such a 
ldeal_ such llreat music from TRACKS. J 
New Release's & Classics! 
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

"There are nearly 10,000 homeless shelters andfacilities in the countr~ but this is among the best. " 
-Fred Karnas, executive director National Coalition for the Homeless 


Lou Holtz, 
head football coach at the University ofNotre Dame, requests your presence at the third annual 
Centerfor the Homeless Christmas Luncheon 
Wednesday, December 1, 1993 11 :30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. South Bend Century Center 
For reservations and informa­tion, please call 

(219)282-8700 
• 
or wrzte 
Center for the Homeless, Inc. 813 South Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 
• Yes, I plan to join Coach Holtz December 1 in support of Michiana's homeless. Please reserve:  
_  tables of eight at $240 per table  seats at $30 per reservation  
• I am am unable to attend the December 1 luncheon, but please accept my holliday gift of  
$  to the Center for the Homeless  
Please make checks payable to: The Center for the Homeless, Inc. (RSVP by Nov. 24, 1993)  
Name  Contributions to the Center  
Address  for the Homeless are fully tax  
Company Name  deductible. ($20 ofeach $30  

City___State_ Zip reservation is deductible.) Phone ( )____ 






BUSINESS 
page 10 Friday, November 12, 1993 

McDonald's takes its traditional values to all ends ofglobe 
By KATE ROSENBACH mann said, the workers learned Business Writer 
the social graces expected of
I 
employees of the company and 
Over 25 million people every now three times as many peo­day, in 68 countries, walk into ple visit the McDonald's then a McDonald's and are greeted visit Lenan's tomb that is right with a smile and the question, across the street. "!low may I help you?" Starmann said another cul­
Because McDonald's restau­tural triumph of the company is rants are located all over the the plan to open a restaurant in world, it is considered a global India within two years. The corporation according to Dick Indian branch will be the first Starmannn, the senior vice -McDonald's to not serve beef president of the McDonald's due to dietary customs. corporation. Likewise, the restaurant the 
Last night, at a round table company plans to open in Saudi discussion sponsored by the Arabia will also have unique Notre Dame Council for Inter­characteristics. This particular national Business, Starrnann branch will have a designated spoke about the restaurant's women's side and men's side. metamorphosis. It will also be closed four times 
"We're going through a a day for prayer. change... beeoming a bigger Starmann summed up his cornpany ... becoming more in-The ObseiVerfT.J. Harris speech by saying that the cor­
Present at the Notre Dame Council of International Business Development (NDCIBD) lecture last evening 
ternational," Starmann said. poration keeps its four ideals;
were from left to right: Jennifer Starmann, Richard Starmann, NDCIBD president Joe Rogers, and Dean
Starmann said that last year quality, service, cleanliness and 
John Keane of the College of Busingss Administration. 
alone the company generated value, where ever it does busi­
keep the management of the panding McDonald's into a image. He added that the hard­
over eight and a half million ness.
foreign businesses up to local global business is overcoming est thing to teach the em­
dollars in sales, with forty per­"If you're not happy with your 
entrepreneurs. cultural differences. Starmann ployees was proper etiquette
cent of the revenue coming experience today, you're not
"We want it to be a local busi-said that training the employ­when dealing with customers.
from restaurants outside of the going to come back tomorrow" 
ness, so we want local people ees that work in the Moscow "We even had to have some
US. Through the duration of Starmann said. "That's true 
as partners so we can have McDonald's was a cultural hur-classes to teach them how to
the speeeh, he explained that everywhere in the world, no
thier insight," Starmann said. die because the local workers smile," Starmann said. 
most of the company's suceess matter what it is, where it is, or
Part of the problem about ex-had to adapt to the restaurant's With McDonald's help, Star-
comes from their ideology to when it is." 
Defects by Caterpillar Disney to unveil new theme park 
By MERRILL HARTSON War-era village and fort, an came after a report earlier in

worry many customers 
Associated Press American Indian setting includ­the week showing that the ing a waterway for rafting, Disney Co. posted a quarterlyBy BILL VOGRIN could lead to a decertification HAYMARKET, Va. 
exhibits and show halls telling loss of $77.8 million. Euro 
Associated Press of Caterpillar as a preferred 
Undaunted by staggering the story of immigrants and Disney, outside Paris, said that supplier," Bielenberg wrote. 
losses from its European ven­various cultures and a factory its 18-month-old theme parkPEORIA, Ill. He said there was no pattern ture, the Walt Disney Co. town built around a high-speed lost $921 million in its first lis­
A Caterpillar Inc. memo says to the defects -oil pans put on 
pressed forward Thursday with thrill ride. cal year. its largest engine customer is backward, throttle controls plans for a "Disney America" 
"We love Disneyland, but this To say Euro Disney is not a worried about a recent improperly assembled, engines theme park near a Civil War is not Disneyland," said Bob success "is not fair," Hummell increase in defects and, as a with the wrong bell housing. 
battlefield in Virginia. Weis, senior vice president of said. "It's having economic result, Caterpillar could lose its "A growing number of (cus­Disney selected a 3,000-acre Walter Disney Imagineering. problems because of the reces­standing as a preferred suppli­tomers) are expressing serious site in the rolling, heavily "This is about all the fun and sion in Europe." 
er of engines. concern over Caterpillar's abil­wooded northern Virginia excitement of Disneyland, but Rummell declined to specu­But Caterpillar officials say ity to ship products at the same countryside after an exhaustive we are going to do a lot more late on the revenue potential of quality is higher than ever and quality" as competing manu­search, said Peter Rummell, here." the theme park in Virginia.
the problems are not related to facturers, Bielenberg wrote. president of Disney Design and In the factory town, for However, he said he expected an ongoing contract dispute The memo seems to contra­
Development Company. instance, visitors to the park attendance to be "more mod­with the United Auto Workers. dict the company's statements The opening-date target is will be able to take a roller­est" than at Disney World in The company has a plant in over the past 18 months that 1998. coaster through a building Orlando, Fla., or Disneyland in Lafayette, Ind. quality is the same as or higher 
Rummell said Disney would modeled after a steel factory, Anaheim, Calif., which are Caterpillar vice president than it was before a 163-day invest "hundreds of millions of replete with blasting furnaces. reported to draw 30,000 or Hich Thompson on Wednesday UAW strike ended in April 
dollars" in the project, a 100-"You're going to feel like a more a day.
played down an internal memo 1992. acre park surrounded by a resi­He said it would be "priced
piece of steel going through a that said problems with its new The walkout ended after 
dential and commercial devel­factory on an upside-down competitively" with other 
engines are jeopardizing its Caterpillar threatened to fire 
opment. "We're here because roller coaster," Weis said. attractions in a part of the relationship with Paccar Inc., all strikers. Since then the 
we think we can succeed. We Park planners envision heavy nation that has been a magnetwhose Peterbilt and Kenworth UAW has been engaged in a don't plan on quitting," he said. reliance on "virtual reality" for tourists. divisions make about 21 per­"work-to-rule" campaign in The goal, he said, is to build a techniques and a lot of high Neither Disney executives nor cent of the 165,000 over-the­which workers mindlessly fol­theme park that will comple­technology to take visitors state officials would discuss in 
road trucks sold. lows blueprints or orders from ment numerous historical beyond normal rides and detail discussions that preceded 
In the memo, Caterpillar foremen, even if the worker attractions in the nation's capi­attractions. A person could find selection of the site borderingsales executive James A. knows it will create a problem. tal, some 30 miles to the east, himself parachuting into enemy the tiny farming town of Bielenberg describes a series of as well as Civil War battlefield territory -by simulation -or Haymarket.problems with three models of The job action is designed to 
sites in Manassas and taking part in a harrowing Rummell said the park would engines and cites a "perception prove the value of experienced Fredericksburg, Va., and Lewis and Clark-like river produce $1.5 billion in tax rev­and reality ... of deteriorating workers and hurt the company Thomas Jefferson's Monticello expedition. enues for the state and host Caterpillar quality." by depriving it of each employ­home near Charlottesville, Va. Thursday's announcement Prince William County. 
"Continuation of this trend ee's expertise. The plans include a Civil 

MARKET ROUNDUP  

November II. 1993 -~3,662.43~-~~'1~.,~..!'!«!~~~ Ho~h<" cl~ J3,697.641-1.12 Low 3,6.18.40 ~ -::':::':-f:l~ • • • • • • • • • • •••••• 0 • I8II8SIIIl 8llllllii8E l8ll8i3llllS! ~ lllll8llll!ll  


BUSINESS BRIEFS 
SAO PAULO, Brazil General Motors Corp. plans to invest from $1.8 billion to $2 billion in the thriving Latin American auto market over the next five years, GM president and chief executive Jack Smith said Thursday. He said GM and other automakers should sell 2.6 million vehicles in the region this year, up 15 percent from 1992. Thanks to a boom in Brazil and Colombia, GM sales are expected to grow from a record of 400,000-plus vehicles last year to more than 500.000 this year. 
WASHINGTON 
Interest rates on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages rose slightly to 7.12 percent this week, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. said Thursday. This week's average was up from 
7.11 percent a week ago. It was the third consecutive increase after the average hit a 25-year low of 6. 7 4 per­cent last month. It marked the second week in a row the average has been higher than 7 percent, after 10 weeks below that mark. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Trucks on Indiana's interstate highways were moving right along Thursday without any strike-related activity, an Indiana State Police offi­cial said. But citizens-band radio wavelengths that truckers use to communicate with each other crack­led with talk of a national protest over increased fuel prices, and some drivers acknowledged that they were nervous about being on the road. 





VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 12, 1993 page 11 
'THE OBSERVER
\ 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Spom Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager .............••...•.. Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller .....................•.................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of rhe aU[hors, and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Maty's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Business Office Sports News/Photo 
EDITORIAL 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Accent/Saint Maty's  
631-4541  Day Editor/Production  
631-5313  Advenising  
631-4543  Systems/OTS  
631-5323  Office Manager  

631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 
Center for service needed at SMC 
Ideas about a proposal for the Saint Mary's Christian Service Center (SMCSC) have floated around the campus since the early fall. It is time to mobilize the efforts and make the talk a reality. 
As a Catholic institution the mission of service is an intregal one to the College. Contained within both the mission statement and the tradition, a call to service has always been part of Saint Mary's. A formal center would provide the campus with a place to carry out this mission. 
At the present time many students find it difficult to locate service opportunities. With a center and a full-time staff, that would provide the continuity and consistency that many student-led groups lack, the center would pro­vide a long-lasting institution for service on the campus. 
With such a center also come the opportunities to coor­dinate a means for integrating service into the curriculum by providing students a place to turn the concepts learned within the classroom into a reality. · 
While many may see overlap between this center and Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns (CSC), the pro­posal has included clear goals for the center, including a focus on issues concerning women and family that would distinguish it from the esc and be consistant with the mis­sion of the College. 
However, the planning group which composed the pro­posal was not as careful about the budgeting of the pro­ject. 
Research needs to be done to spell out specific costs for each item contained within the proposal. Round figures and estimates will do little to serve in the passage of the proposal by both the College and the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross which are being asked to jointly sponsor the project. 
When attention is given to financial details only one other obstacle stands between the proposal becoming a reality-student support. . 
The proposal will go no where without indication of stu­dent opinion or concerns regarding the center. 
With student support being an intergral part of whether or not any further consideration will be given to the pro­ject, now is the time for the women of Saint Mary's to speak their minds about whether or not they feel there is a need for such a center on their campus. 
The idea for a full-time center set aside for service at Saint Mary's is long overdue. Long after the current stu­dent body leaves Saint Mary's, the mission of the College will remain the same, the SMCSC will help that mission to flourish and grow for years to come. 
DOONESBURY 


-~----­

page 12 Friday, November 12, 1993


VIEWPOINT 

GARY CARUSO CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Pure and simple, tomorrow will be for the championship 
Rarely do I delve into detailed • Do you know at least one see some mystifying defense Who would even cover a tackle that winner will be the National opinions about football in this Domer who can quote you reminiscent of the one Alabama in that situation? What better Champion at the end of this column. However, this weekend every statistic relating to every used to dominate Miami last way to demonstrate the birth­season. Nebraska will remain is the game of the season, as facet of Notre Dame football? I New Year's Day. I hope to see day boy's All-American abilities undefeated and our game's well as Aaron Taylor's birth­know one who calls students one different blitzer on each than a pass to him? (And you winner will play (and win) in day. So I thought I'd stray into whom he knows on campus just play to constantly confuse the better catch it, big guy!) the Orange Bowl. You gotta the football world with some to hear rumors and gather Seminoles. Then when they Finally, the Fumblerooski is love it! (Sorry if I sound like my observations. information. He can tell you the keep an extra back in to block, one of my favorites. It is a great cheap ND friend.) 
• Let me be the first to wish average number of yards per ND can blitz two or more. Most weapon when the opposing I hope that everyone keeps that big. bald, number 75 a running play NO has had in importantly, disguise the defen­team thinks you are going to this larger-than-life game in happy birthday. My friend, every game back to the Knute sive look and do not go into any pass the ball. Florida State is perspective, though. While I Aaron Taylor, will celebrate on Hockne era. big pass-prevention zones. blitzing. Here it is, the Irish are will leave the game hoarse and lucky 13th tomorrow by beating Another alumnus I know not • Hichard Nixon, an avid fan down by four with two seconds drained, I still won't be able to Florida State. If he even thinks only can recite insignificant sta­who it is rumored never paid to go... you know the rest. quote you exact scores for of celebrating prior to that tistics, but he beats my ear as his share for meals either, once • Have you heard that every many games or quote any yards game, I'll seed his head to look though he was a television sent in a play to the Redskins NO fan wants ten inches of per game statistics. I will be like a Chia Pet! announcer. Now that in itself is during a game. I think the pres­snow on game day? Of course, grateful for knowing Aaron 
I've known Aaron since his bad enough, but also, when at ident called for a screen pass, every Florida State fan wants Taylor these past four years, freshman year. Now that he is a NO he never pays his share of which promptly lost yardage. If sun. The last time Alabama and appreciative of the many captain, his schedule is such meals, transportation, or ticket I remember correctly, the came into South Bend in good games in which I watched that I have not had the chance prices! On top of that, he invites opposing team was playing pre­November, NO fans wanted him play. Most importantly, I to see him yet this year. students to join us, on us of vent defense! That should have snow. The weather was 70 will continue to pay my share at Although I will be on campus course, while always forgetting been Nixon's forewarning that degrees and sunny. The Irish dinners, etc. I only hope all of this weekend, I mention Aaron his bank card or checkbook. He Watergate would also be a dis­won with a score like 30-14 (I my NO statistician and here so that I can at least say has few friends outside NO aster. refuse to remember stats). Just announcer friends also put the hello to him as well as send my because of his fanatical Irish I have a few plays I'm sure goes to show you that it's the game into a similar perspective. best to his wonderful mom. Hi babbling, and he had few the team practiced last week. teams and not the weather that I hate when our fans brag after Mom! With my luck, he'll get Domer friends because of his The "Aaron eligible" (better counts. Of course I am prepar­a win. drafted by the Washington miserly ways! known as the "tackle eligible") ing for and hoping for snow! Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame Redskins, become one of the •Enough about the fans. Let's should be ready for tomorrow. • Tomorrow's game will be a '73, works in Washington, D.C. hogs, and be bothering me all look at the coach and his game Maybe it could be combined bowl game, pure and simple. I His column appears every other the time. plan. Of course, we expect to with a fake field goal attempt. have no doubts in my mind that Friday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stampede would bring the biggest high to an all-time low 
Dear Editor: 
munity. Make yourself and your 
Notre Dame has a very good friends aware of the situation football team, with the talent, and resolve as group not to the coaching and the will to move toward the field-talk to beat Florida State. We also the people around you at the have a very spirited student game, too. body, with the strong potential If you have no fear of injury to celebrate victory with a mad for yourself (I saw a strong 6-5 rush for the field and the goal guy with all the skin scraped off posts. For the sake of the stu­his hip), have enough respect dents, the tea and the Notre for other people not to storm Dame community, I truly hope the field. Have respect for the we avoid this seemingly smaller and Jess able-all the inevitable response to a victory. students at Madison who made 
The last Saturday of fall it to the goal post were large break I went up to Madison to guys: all the students in critical watch the Wisconsin Badgers condition overnight were small­take on Michigan at home. I er girls. Think of the people was fairly fired up for the day­with sprained ankles and bro­a chance to see old friends, to ken arms already. or people see the Badgers maybe beat with asthma problems that Michigan for the first time in 12 couldn't breathe in a crush, or years, and to celebrate even the little brothers and sis­Halloween Madison-style under ters that get in to see the big a full moon. I didn't think it ND football game. I would not could get much better than want to live with stepping on that. someone else any more than I
ing avalanche of people became dying! I can't find my friend!" Students came out crying and 
The game was close, with want to get stepped on.
the only goal. With too many We started to screaming to hugging and helping each other 
excitement similar to our own Have respect for the team
people in too little space, the people above us to push walk. Sarah and Liz came out
games, as the packed stadium and the coaches, who do not
breathing became difficult and back, that people were getting upset-they couldn't find their
of students and alumni rooted deserve for their hard work to
seeing beyond three rows hurt. People shouted back, friend but they had seen the
on their team. When the be ruined by tragedy. Don't
impossible as we only looked telling us to keep moving, to go worst of the damage: bruised
Badgers finally edged the think an idiotic lemming rush
down to find a place to step. to the field and to the goal and bloody people, an iron rail­
Wolverines 13-10, it seemed for the goal posts is the only
I saw my friend Sarah go posts. I saw people a few rows ing torn out of the concrete by
the culmination of the changes way to celebrate if we win.
down and Liz pull her up imme­ahead of me get pushed into the the sheer force of people being 
that have brought their team We'll be much better off slap­
diately but it looked bad for a pile before the message got to pressed against it, and a girl
from 1-10 when Barry Alvarez ping hands and backs and hug­
moment. Then I took one wrong the top and the crush finally carried away with a blue face
started coaching in 1990 to ging each other wildly than 
step and fell between the lessened and people could stop. and blood running out of her
their current ranked status. My fighting for our lives in a riot.
bleachers, looking up only to a Sarah and Liz and I couldn't nose and mouth. 
friends and l-and 80,000 oth­We'll be able to celebrate fully
black mass of bodies about to tell exactly what was happening In the end, no one was killed,
ers-were loving it. that night, too. The students at 
step on me in the fraction of the in the front but we tried to but seven women were in criti­
It took me a second to catch Wisconsin can only wish it had
second it took for a stranger to move toward the exit. We found cal condition for days (two
on when my friends told me we been that way now.
pull me up. It was ten times our friend Kris, who had been revived from pulselessness),
would meet at the far goal posts What happened at Wisconsin 
worse than Penn State. I was separated from us. She was and there were broken skulls
if we got separated-the stu­was a tragedy. It stands as a
hit by a car a year ago, but crying and shaking-she'd been and legs and a neck and at
dents were going to storm the stern warning to us. It is com­
can't say that personal fear of pushed to the front and fallen least 70 went to the hospital in
field. I asked how smart it was, pletely preventable. If it hap­
death was worse than the mass so that her head was under a ambulances. One woman is still 
remembering the frightening pens at Notre Dame this week­
hysteria at the football game in bleacher and seen feet coming hospitalized in fair condition­
crush at the Penn State game end, despite the warning, it will 
Madison. down possibly to crush her, but there will be lasting mental and 
last and wondering if I really be a crime. I'm not easily intim­
Suddenly, it became clear instead heard the crack as the psychological damage in the
wanted to do that in a strange idated, but I've seen enough,
that something was terribly leg of the girl next to her was most hurt and their friends who 
stadium at a strange school. My and nothing can keep me in the 
wrong in front of us, but the broken inches from her ear. watched it. A large percent of
friend said it would be awe­student section for the last two
people behind kept pushing and She doesn't know how she got the people in my friends' dorm
some; they had done it last year minutes of the game if we are
there was no choice but to keep out of it with only bruises. were too upset or too sore to go
after beating Ohio State and winning.
moving. I realized there was a Kris and I moved to the exit out that night, and Madison's
everyone had just danced on Beating FSU or winning the
huge space as people were no and Sarah and Liz went to look massive Halloween party was
the field with the band and cel­national championship will not
longer standing just three rows for another separated friend. somewhat subdued. As one
ebrated. be worth it if one person is ter­
ahead of me, but it wasn't a While waiting in the exit tunnel, football player put it, the day
It was no longer a choice ribly or permanently injured.
hoped for break in the crowd we could see drunken celebra­went from the biggest high to·
when the crowd around me We cannot take this matter too
but rather a massive pile-up of tors slide up and down the goal the biggest low. The win was
began to move forward before seriously.
students crushed by the crowd posts while more and more forgotten in the resulting
the last second ticked off the Remember Wisconsin. I cer­
and unable to get up or help ambulances began to arrive tragedy.
clock and the longest nightmare tainly will. 
themselves or one another. I and people were carried past I've also been told there is no
of my life began. Suddenly fun 
saw the people standing in us on stretchers. The scene was way to prevent a stampede if
changed to survival as finding ANNE NIEBLER 
front of them crying and sickening and put the win in we win. I definitely disagree,
footing in the bleachers while Sophomore
screaming to us "Go back! perspective. There were but it will take a Jot effort on
staying upright in an accelerat-Pasqucrilla Ww Hall
People are dying! My friend is rumors of deaths. the part of this school as a com­


Friday, November 12, 1993 page 13


VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
XYZ Affair covers the finer points of 'trash' argument 

Dear Editor: 
the syncopation of the basic This article was written in re­rhythm are all aspects of the sponse to Joe Cannon's edito­cover that the musician can rial from Monday, Nov. 8. I creatively alter to satisfy would like to take the opportu­him/herself (and which our nity here to clarify several of band frequently does). the misconceptions generated I'm sure that there are a fair by last Thursday's article re­number of fledgling bands, not garding the review of the band, unlike ourselves, that would XYZ Affair, in which I am a tend to agree with these con­member. cepts. Even professional bands, 
The quote, "The other bands such as The Beatles, U2, Jimi on campus are whimps," is Hendrix, R.E.M., Metallica, truly not a heartfelt belief of Rush, and countless others mine. nor of any of the other have played covers, some which members of XYZ Affair. This were even re-recorded onto statement was made to the in­their respective albums. terviewer in a purely ironical or Although original musical even joking context, and was compositions are definitely not intended to establish the more involved and creative false air of superiority which processes, the performance of seems to have been interpreted cover songs still provides a 

by you, and perhaps many oth­
ers. statement, "We are not year, or even our high school grunge," which, perhaps, was project -altogether represent­
In fact, that entire article is 
not adequately explained in the ing more than "a few origi­
saturated with, which one 
XYZ Affair article. As it was nals"), you would, I imagine,might call, passages exhibiting written, the comment could be find this description accurate. 
an almost wry sense of humor. 
construed in two different By implying that we are a
From the opening lines. " ... not 
ways: either as a reference to band with few originals andten feet from Pearl Jam...and our cover music, or to our origi­one that you feel lacks the tal­
slightly fewer copies sold" 
nal material. I regret to inform ent and creativity of other cam­{referring to our band's current you, Joe. that your inter­pus bands, you, Mr. Cannon,lack of comparable worldwide pretation of this matter was must indeed be a victim of the popularity and album sales), to 
quite wrong. same close-mindedness thatFluhme's comparison to a 
In interviewing me, the au­you so hastily thrust upon us.
Spinal Tap drummer, the jocu­thor of the article asked me to Before finishing, I'd just likelarity of these statements seems 
describe the sound of our orig­to express my personalevident. Contrary to your belief, inal music, to which I began my thoughts and feelings on the
the XYZ Affair respects all 
answer with the description, ".. performance of cover tunes,efforts by other campus bands .not grunge." If you, Joe, have which you seem obviously op­and encourages them in their bothered to listen to our album posed to. First, performing anypursuits {yes, even you, Joe). 
(or the one we made freshman desired piece of music, whether Next, I want to elucidate the 
It is time to end the fear of feminism 
Dear Editor: harassed on the job and that cepted this static attitude. 
I would like to comment on harassment was a fact of life whether she felt that it was ac­the Nov. 9 debate, "The that women had to accept in ceptable that many men are not Changing Roles of Men and the workforce. She said that interested in taking the time to Women in the 90s." While the we all must learn to "take it raise their children, placing the title of the debate indicates a like a woman." responsibility solely on the variety of issues, the issue on How can these attitudes be woman. In response, Schlafly which the majority of the audi­accepted in a society where stated that this static role is, in ence focused was singular: women constitute over half the fact, acceptable, and that it is abortion. population? How can one pas­human nature. While it is a 
Pro-life and Pro-choice de­sively allow women's fears to biological fact that a woman bates may volley back and forth be silenced? Why must we gives birth to a child, nature until the end of time. While "take it like a woman" instead does not dictate that a woman this issue is brought to the fore­of questioning the behavior of must be the primary caregiver front. other critical issues are men? to the child. placed on the back burner. As Schlafly's negative view of the abortion issue cannot be feminism deserves severe criti­It is time that we ended the ignored, nor can other essential cism. Despite what Schlafly fear of feminism. Feminism is issues facing women. chooses to believe, feminism is a term that encompasses a set 
During the debate, Schlafly not about women killing chil­of beliefs and ideologies which did take some time to express dren. All feminists are not pro­are beneficial to everyone, not views on issues other than choice and the abortion issue is only women. Feminism ex­abortion, such as her opposi­not necessarily central to fem­presses the idea that a woman tion to sexual harassment inism. must not be valued by the at­claims. In the case of the In addition, Schlafly is under tributes assigned by others, but Clarence Thomas/Anita Hill de­the misconception that femi­by those which she chooses for bate, Schlafly commented on nism is a device used to destroy herself. We need to start chal­what a shame it was that Hill human nature. Several times lenging the ideas of people such tried to vilify the character of during the debate, Schlafly as Schlafly who discourage such an accomplished man. mentioned that it would be ac­those attempting to advance in 
At her reception, a pro­ceptable if the male decided to a society which has oppressed Schlafly supporter expressed become a Mr. Mom, yet stated females for so long. how relieved she was to hear that many men do not desire Schlafly's view on sexual ha­this role. MEREDITH DWYER 
rassment. The supporter stat­At the reception after the de­Junior ed that she had been sexually bate, I asked her if she ac-Pasquerilla East 

medium through which indi­
learned or created, should be vidual creativity can work on a 

an exciting and educational 

smaller scale (if the musician experience. As a true musician, feels creative enough to alter I really believe that your prima­the music as he/she sees fit).
ry job is to entertain others. By "Recycling the trash" seems to 

performing music that you 

be your general opinion on overenjoy to play (either originals or playing; with "trash" referringcovers) and the audience enjoys to the song covered. With that to hear, you are able to gain the thought, I guess that there is a
people's attention and fulfill lot of popular "trash" in the 

your job as a musician. 

music world making decent 
Also, playing a cover tune money. I wonder if those bands doesn't entirely restrict the in­

would really appreciate your
dividual musician's creative ap­thoughtful description of their proach. For instance. the be­music?

ginnings and endings of songs. the length and approach to solo SCOIT GRUSZYNSKIsections, the amount of impro­
Senior
visation in the way of fills by 
Off-Campus
the various instruments, and 

Social man must pay allegiance to the Universal 
Dear Editor: (1870); Davis us. Beason, 133 
U.S. 333, at 342 (1890); and 
I am writing to clarify some Macintosh. 283 U.S. 605, at points made by my good friend, 633 (1931). Consequently, the Peter Helland, relative to my Court's repeated protection of book, Behind The Lodge Door: First Amendment "rights" for Church State And Freemasonry those who do not believe in In America. "our Creator," and recognize 
no "duty" owed Him raises a 
First, the book is not "new." question as to the true 
It was initially published in Constitutional validity of those 
1989, and is available at the Supreme Court opinions. 
Hesburgh Library. A revised 

edition will soon become the Fourth, the Church's militant 
fifth printing of this exegesis of opposition to and condemna­
the religion clauses of the First tion of Freemasonry began in 
Amendment. 1738, not 1783. While it is true 
that the word "Freemasons" 
Second, the present First was dropped from Canon Law 
Amendment was crafted not in 1983, the Congregation on 
alone by Congressman Fisher the Doctrine of the Faith simul­
Ames of Massachusetts, but taneously issued a directive 
also by Senator Oliver saying that a Catholic who ad­
Ellsworth of Connecticut, a man hered to the Masonic Fraternity 
who subsequently became the is denied "the right to approach 
third Chief Justice of the U.S. Holy Communion." 
Supreme Court. 

Finally. Peter Helland is right 
The problem with jurists who in stating that James Madison 
are committed to the philoso­had little to do with shaping the 
phy of Freemasonry is that the religion clauses (all his propos­
Craft itself identifies its philoso­als were either withdrawn by 
phy as "Cabalistic Gnosticism," him on the House floor. or his 
a pagan naturalism and ratio­colleagues rejected them). 
nalism. 

However, in his "Memorial 
Third, the hard reality is that and Remonstrance Against 
this nation was established as a Religious Assessments" [in 
"Christian nation." This fact Virginia]. a document fre­
was acknowledge by the quently cited in Supreme Court 
Supreme Court in four (not five) religion clauses cases, Madison 
separate decisions: (1) Vidal v. did assert: "Before any man 
Girard's Executors (1844); (2) can be considered as a member 
Mormon Church v. United of Civil Society, he must be con­
States (1889); (3) Church of sidered as a subject of the 
the Holy Trinity vs. U.S. Governor of the Universe: ... 
(1892); and (4) United States [and] every man who becomes 
us. Macintosh (1931). a member of any particular 
civil society, [must] do it with a 
Moreover, the word "religion" saving of his allegiance to the 
in the religion clauses has been Universal Sovereign." 
defined by the Supreme Court 

as meaning "the duty which we PAUL A. FISHER 
owe to our Creator and the Notre Dame Class of 1943 
manner of discharging it." (See South Bend The Observer • ETC. Friday, November 12, 1993 

Notre Dame professors remember their FSU ties 




friday 

events 

"Map of the Human Heart," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 
9:45 p.m.. $2. "Sleepless In Seattle," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m.• $2. "The Breakfast Club," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 
9:30 p.m .. $2. Men's & Women's Swimming vs. Florida State, 4 p.m.• Rolrs Aquatic Center. The Foreigner. Moreau Center/ Little Theatre SMC, 8 
p.m., $3 at SMC Box Office. Fighting Irish Pep Rally. 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. 
•I& 

Alumni-Senior Club open 8:30p.m. to 2 a.m. The Band The Future, rock, reggae. contemporary, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 10 p.m.


saturday 
events 

Fighting Irish Marching Band, 11 a.m., Administration Building. 
#2 Notre Dame vs. #1 Florida State, kick-off 1:35 p.m. 
Football Fiesta: watch the game at Club 23 on a big­screen T.V., free munchies, 1:35 p.m. Black Images, Washington Hall, 8 p.m .. $3. The Foreigner, Moreau Center/ Little Theatre SMC, 8 
p.m., $3 at SMC Box Office. "Map of the Human Heart," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., $2. "Sleepless in Seattle," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m.• $2. "The Breakfast Club," Carroll Auditorium. SMC, 7 & 
9:30 p.m .. $2. Men's Tennis: Alumni vs. Varsity, 6 p.m .. Eck Pavilion. 
nmic 

Alumni-Senior Club open right after football game until 2 a.m. Come celebrate. 
The Band The Future, rock. reggae, contemporary, Mishawaka Midway Tavern. 10 p.m. 



sunday 
events 

Misa en Espanol. 11:30 a.m., Morrissey Hall Chapel, Padre Don McNeill. All are welcome. 
The Romantic Prelude, William Cerny, pianist, 2 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum. Free admission. 
The Foreigner. Moreau Center/ Little Theatre SMC, 2:30p.m., $3 at SMC Box Office. 

movies 
University Park East 
Fatal Instinct 7:20, 9:20p.m. 
Joy Luck Club 8 p.m. 
Gettysburg 7 p.m. Look Who's Talking Now 7:30, 9:35p.m. 

University Park West 
Nightmare Before Christmas 7:45, 9:40p.m. Age of Innocence 8 p.m. 
By ELISABETH HEARD Assistant Accent Editor 
With all of the hype and com­motion surrounding the game, the question of who to root for is one which is easy for most Notre Dame students and facul­ty. Even though there are some Domers who feel that the Irish will not be able to pull off a vic­tory. they still cheer for the blue and gold. 
There are a few professors. however, who have found themselves in a predicament, for although they now wear the brand of the leprechaun, at one time in their lives they used to be a Seminole. 
Lawrence Cunningham, department chair and professor of theology, not only earned a master's degree in 1963 and a doctorate in 1968 from Florida State University but was also a faculty member for 16 years. Coming to South Bend from Florida was a big change for both Professor Cunningham and his family. "Before we came here, my kids had never seen snow," he jokes. 
Snow is not the only differ­ence between the two schools, however. "Florida State is much larger. It has between 25,000 and 26,000 students." Cunningham continues, "It is a state-supported school and not religiously affiliated. It doesn't have a big theology depart­ment." 
Even though FSU surpasses Notre Dame in size, it is not lacking in terms of the quality of education and still demands students with relatively high 

ACT and SAT scores. "Academically it is very good. It is one of the two flagship schools in Florida. But," Cunningham adds, "it is not as selective as Notre Dame." 
Having presently taught at this university for six years, Cunningham was initially attracted by the quality of the theology department. "The stu­dents here are very bright," says Cunningham. "I like it here very much." 
William Nichols, professor of accountancy, received his doc­torate of business administra­tion from FSU in 1978. Agreeing with Cunningham, Nichols sees a big difference between the two institutions. "The school (FSU) is bursting at the seams. It is almost into the city," he says. "They even had to build the new administration offices around the stadium because there is not enough space." 
A lot has changed at Florida State since Professor Nichols was a student there, especially in the capacity of the football department. 
"When I was there, it was not a football powerhouse," he laughs. "We operated on quar­ters and not semesters, which meant that school wouldn't start until the second or third week in September. Sometimes, the first football game was before school even started. Attendance was so low at these games that they let stu­dents in for free so that the (lack of a) crowd wouldn't be so embarrassing." 
With such personal ties to Florida State, it would seem as though loyalty would be hard to claim. ''I'll have a house full of Seminoles this week," says Cunningham. 
"I have an FSU cup which I take to class with me and a hat which I sometimes wear," says Nichols. 
But when it comes down to it, Cunningham and Nichols both agree. "I'm rooting for Notre Dame," says Niehols. "My son graduated from here and my daughter goes to St. Mary's." 
Cunningham adds, "The bot­tom line -you don't bite the hand that feeds you or signs your paycheck. I'm for ND 100 percent." 
Because of their background. these two professors are some­times teased by fellow col­leagues, but, as Cunningham says, "it's all in good fun." 

As Saturday approaches, there is one burning question on everyone's mind -Who will come out victorious? "It will either be a close game and Notre Dame wins, or Notre Dame will get blown out of the water. but I hope for the for­mer," predicts Nichols. "I think Notre Dame will win." 
"I have a lot of faith in Lou Holtz," adds Cunningham. ''I'm hoping that after two weeks of preparation he will be able to pull it ofT." He looks at the situ­ation in a theological light. "My theory about the game is the same as eternal salvation. I hope and pray for a victory. but I have no absolute assurance for it." 


Did you know • 
•The 
Florida State/Notre Dame game was scheduled only three years ago. Most are scheduled ten or more years in advance. 

•As 
of midday, only four hotel rooms were available within 100 miles of South Bend. 

•In 
Talahassee a travel agency hired one person two and a half years ago to schedule reservations for the game. Since then she has booked 250 rooms from here to Chicago for 500 people. 

•The 
airport is packed. One airplane after another is scheduled to land on the runway as soon as they can be cleared. 

•All 
commercial flights into South Bend Friday night and Saturday morn­



ing and out of South Bend on Sunday are either sold out or overbooked. 
•Many car rental agencies are sold 
out. For example: Hertz Rent A Car National Car rental Affordable Car Rental Avis Rent A Car (has been sold out for 
a week). 

•A few agencies still have cars avail­able, but their numbers are limited. For example: 
Agency Rent A Car 
Enterprise Rent A Car 
Snappy Car Rental 
Budget Hent A Car -will have cars available after noon tomorrow 
Sears Rent A Car -will have cars available tomorrow morning or after­noon. 
F
inally. One day left. One night in a drunken stupor. Wake up tomorrow, hold your breath, pray, whatever suits you. Notre Dame vs. Florida State-even the Old Milwaukee advertisements don't get any better than this. 
The world of college football resumes its axis around Notre Dame Stadium Saturday after a four-year hiatus. Not since the Irish's 31-30 win over Miami in 1988 has all attention been turned to the house that Rockne built. 
-But that would be the stadi­urn that "Rock Knutne" built if you ask Florida State 
· receiver Kez McCorvey. The Seminole wideout recalled that unknown Irish great when asked about the Notre Dame mystique. 
"I appreciate what those guys accomplished, but they See DUEUpage 8 
-. ----=' "' ' ~ , 
IN~IDE 
-_.,.___..,--_-_ ~--~ ~ <... " 

-see pages 2-3 ; 
-I

How will Notre Dame neutralize · Charlie Ward and Derrick Brooks?~ -see pages 4-5· 
-

Kevin McDougal prepares for the ! biggest game of his life. : -see page 9 i 
-

Notre Dame has had its share of 
success in big games. -see page 10 . 
....
-----------------------------------~~----~----~-------­
page 2 
on a scale of I to 5 QUARTERBACKS 

A shoe-in for the Heisman, Ward is the most dangerous player the Irish have faced. 
RUNNING BACKS 
l!J 
FSU has no premier back, yet still rushes for 245 yards per game. 
RECEIVERS 
~ 

McCorvey and Vanover are perhaps the best one-two combination in the nation. 
0-LINE 
l!J 
Line's success may be due to surrounding talent, bur the numbers can't be denied. 
D-LINE 
liJ 

Pressures rhe quarter­back well, bur may have a problem against rhe Irish power game. 
LINEBACKERS 




l!.J 
The main focus of rhe Seminole defense, rhe linebackers can dictate the course of rhe game. 
SECONDARY 
L2J 
Sawyer and Abraham are top-flight covermen who can give receivers firs. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
~ 

Despite lethal returning corps, Bentley has become familar with the phrase "Wide Right" 
·COACHING 

l=!J 
Bowden has assembled the first undisputed No.I in years. His record speaks for itself. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 

Florida State is No. I for a reason. 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 12, 1993 
Versatility, speed difficult to stop 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Spans Editor 
The moment of truth has finally arrived for the Notre Dame defense. 
After being touted as the back· bone of a sub-par Irish football team in the preseason, the defen­sive corps stepped up to the early season chal­
Florida State 
lenges and 

proved that it Offense 
had what takes 

vs. 
to win a 

Notre Dame 
national championship. Defense 
The squad is eighth in the nation in total defense and ninth in the nation in scoring defense, allowing an aver­age of only 289.7 yards and 14.3 points per game. 
However. the Irish defense has been in a bit of slump lately, hav­ing allowed three touchdowns and 27 points to a 4-3 Navy squad in its last game as well as 338 yards at home to USC. 
The Seminoles come to South Bend with the most lethal offense in the nation. Averaging 44.3 points and 561.6 yards per game, FSU has been among the top in the nation in nearly every offen­sive category. 
"Florida State is the best college football team I've ever seen," said Notre Dame head coach Lou I loltz. "They're capable of beating anybody by 40 points." 
FSU has already accomplished that feat four times this season. 
Led by Heisman Trophy shoe-in Charlie Ward at quarterback, FSU's offense features likely the best receiving corps in the nation, a reliable and capable offensive line, and a backfield which has collectively proven to be one of the top ten in the nation. 
FSU PASSING VS. ND AGAINST THE PASS 
Ward has dismantled opposing defenses single-handedly all sea­son long. 

His ability to scramble in the pocket is unparalleled on the col­lege level. It gives his receivers the extra time they need to get open on the rare occurrences when they are actually well cov­ered. 
In eight games, Ward has com­pleted 168 of his 241 passes for 2,011 yards. He has thrown for 16 touchdowns while only being intercepted once. 
Junior Kez McCorvey and sophomore Tamarick Vanover, Ward's favorite targets, are con­sidered the best receiving tandem in the nation. 
McCorvey leads the Seminoles with 50 receptions for 703 yards and three touchdowns. He has already caught more passes this season than any FSU player in 22 years, with the exception of Lawrence Dawsey in 1990. 
Vanover was FSU's leading receiver last season as a true freshman. He has caught 35 pass­es for 467 yards and two touch­downs this season while seeing mostly double coverage. 
Senior split end Matt Frier adds further depth. He has caught 22 passes for 335 yards. 
The Seminole receivers are most dangerous after they have caught the ball. They often run short pass plays and rely on the individual talents of the ball carri­ers to break for long gains. 
Irish defensive backs Bobby Taylor and Jeff Burris have the skill and the speed necessary to 

P ayer to Watc ... Tamanc 
Vanover 
has been extremely dangerous this season. ... Through nine games he is second on the team with 467 receiving yards on 35 catches. He led the Seminoles last season with 581 yards on 42 recep­tions. His ability to run with the hll.ll after the recep· tion is one his strongest features. 
Vanover's season best was a six catch, 129 yard. one touchdown performance versus Virginia. He has also been used regularly this season on the reverse, having gained 38 yards on nine carries. 
"It's just going to be a great game," Vanover said. "If we play hard and they play hard, I believe we'll come out on top.'' 
OTHERS TO WATCH: Kez McCorvey-The six foot,185 pound junior wido receiver: 
McCorvey leads the Seminoles in receiving with 703 yards on 50 catches. 
With the exception of Lawrence Dawsey's 65 receptions in 1990. McCorvey bas caught more pass­es than any Florida State receiver in 22 years. 
Being quarterback Charlie Ward's favorite receiv· er. McCorvey has caught at least five passes in six games this season. 
"You can't double any of us," he said. "That just opens it up for someone else. We have a dangerous oflense." Sean Jackson· The 6-2, 222 pound senior tailback: 
Jackson combines the ability to rush over tacklers with agility and open-field elusiveness. 
He leads one of the most talented backfields in the nation with 669 yards on 96 carries for an average of seven yards per <:arry. He averages 74 yards per game. 
He has two 100 yard rushing games and two games with over 90 yards. Jackson has also caught 25 passes for 144 yards. -Bryan Connolly 

W
len F'lorida State wide receiver Tamarick .... Vanover waits confidently under an on~ coming kick-off, opposing teams have rea­son to be very concerned. 
The sophomore stand-out is perhaps the most dangerous kick returner to grace collegiate fields since Raghib Ismail tortured opponents for the Irish in 1990. 
The six foot, 210 pound Vanover combines rare speed with strength to make himself an extremely difl'i.cult player to defend. Double teams are not uncommon when he lines up for a pass. 
The Tallahassee native was named Atlantic Coast Conference Hookie of the Year last season after aeeumulating over 1,000 yards in total offense through receiving, rushing, and returning kicks. 


As a freshman, Vanover earned a spot on the College & Pro Football Weekly and The Sporting News All· l American first teams as a kick Tamarik Vanover rtlturner. He averaged an amazing 
51.6 yards in eight returns and returned two kicks for touchdowns. The touchdowns came on each of his llrst two returns, an NCAA record. 
Vanover's returning ability often proved to be one 
of the Seminoles' most lethal weapons. He scurried for 181 yards returning in last season's regular sea· son finale versus Florida, and he returned Miami's opening kickotT 94 yards to give F'lorida State a 6-o· lead. His long was a 96 yard touchdown sprint against Wake Forest. 
This season, however. he has been given very few opportunities to display his talent. Not only have opposing teams been kicking away from him, but they haven't had many chances to kick-off in the first plar,e. He gained 25 yards on his only return in 1993. 
Even with a hampered returning game, Vanover 
-----------~----~----------~~~~~--~~~--------------------------------__. 
shut down the likes of McCorvey and Vanover. The question is whether Notre Dame's defensive line can put pressure on Ward. 
The Seminole offensive line is paced by two returning starters­sophomore guard Lewis Tyre junior guard Patric.k McNeil. Sophomore center Clay Shiver is the best of the group. 
The battle of the lines could 
prove to be the difference in the 
game, and the Irish should have 
the advantage. 
This year's Notre Dame squad features perhaps its best defen­sive line ever. Senior Bryant Young heads a line whieh com­bines speed, size, and strength. 
The Irish will certainly present the most challenging defensive front that the Seminoles have competed against this season. If the defensive line can apply pres­sure, the defensive backs will be able to keep the Seminole receivers under control. 
However, if Ward is given enough time to successfully scramble in and out of the pocket and wait for a receiver to get open, the Irish will be in trouble. 
FSU RUSHING VS. ND AGAINST THE RUSH 
The Seminoles' rushing attack is often overlooked by its potent passing game. However, Florida State's running game can tear apart opposing defenses just as quickly as its passing attack. 
The ground attack has consis­tently landed in the top ten in the nation by averaging slightly over 245 yards per game. 
FSU has maintained such a low profile on its rushing game because none of its top back­fielder's are averaging even 75 yards per game. The Seminoles have been able to rely on any one of live backs to successfully carry the load. 
Senior tailback Sean Jackson has led the field by rushing the ball 96 times for 669 yards and five touchdowns. He is averaging 7 4 yards per game and 7.0 yards per carry. He combines a smash­mouth mentality with the talent to break out for a long gain. 
Warrick Dunn, a true freshman, follows Jackson with 457 yards on 56 rushes. 
Sophomore tailback Marquette Smith, junior fullbaek William Floyd, and freshman fullback Clarence Williams round up the running corps, by averaging 4.8, 5.5, and 7.8 yards per carry, respectively, on 116 carries. Although they only play half as much as the others, they can be just as dangerous. 
The Irish eounter with tlw No. 3 rushing defense in the nation. Their opponents av1~ragn 80.8 yards per game on the ground this season and have cracked the 100 yard plateau only onee, which was against Michigan. 
As mentioned above, tlw de­fensive line is nearly impenr~­trable. Under senior Pete Bereich's leadership, the line­backer corps has proven itself to be much stronger than earlier thought, with younger players also stepping to the fornfront 
However, Ward is a running threat whenevnr he brnaks out of the pocket, giving df\fensiv1~ coor­dinators· fits with his versatility. 
While the linebackers and front lim~ should not have much of a problem stopping tlw FSU rushing game, Ward will lw difficult to contain. 

Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 3 
Linebackers key to big play Seminole defense 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
Once thought to be the weak link of the chain that could bring Seminole coach Bobby Bowden his first national championship, the Florida State defense has surprised the critics, 
and is now ranked in the top ten in the nation in every category. They have allowed only 58 points on the year, though nearly half of that was allowed against lowly Maryland last week. 
Notre Dame's offense, on 

the other hand, ranks in the top ten in points scored, but is only 19th in the nation in yardage gained per game. Without the lack­luster 230 yard performance against Purdue, however, the Irish have continued to improve, culminating in 604 total yards of offense two weeks ago against Navy, a team that led the Irish 24-17 at halftime. 
Here's a look at how the Notre Dame offense stacks up against the Seminole defense: 
NOTRE DAME RUNNING OFFENSE VS. 
FLORIDA STATE AGAINST THE RUN 
University of Southern California head coach John Hobinson called tomorrow's game between No. 1 Florida State and No. 2 Notre Dame a classic matchup of "speed vs. power". 
Heporters and fans from around the country will expect to see the Seminoles' lightning quick linemen and linebackers try to counter the explosive strength of the Irish ground game. 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, however, does not see Florida State as merely a speedy team. 
''I've never seen a defensive line control the line of scrimmage like Florida State's defen­sive line does," commented Holtz. 
The Seminole front, led by defensive ends Derrick Alexander and Toddrick Mcintosh, are the main reason Florida State has held their opponents to less than three yards a carry so far this season. 
The linebacking core of Florida State is the hallmark of the defense. Inside linebacker Ken Alexander leads the team in tackles, and junior Derrick Brooks is always wreaking havoc around the ball. 
Because of their speed, the Seminole line­backers have had the luxury of playing five to six yards off the line of scrimmage on every play and are still able to tackle the ball carrier in the backfield. 
"The people who have had a lot of success running the ball are the teams that passed a lot," continued Holtz. 
It's safe to say that Notre Dame does not pass too much. 
The Irish have averaged only 15.3 passes per game this year, while compiling more than 50 rushes per game. One would think that the Seminole defense should be able to key on the Irish running attack. 
Other teams have tried to stop the run and have failed. In the past four games, Notre Dame has averaged over 300 yards per game, with their best performance coming two weeks ago, where the Irish racked up 426 yards on the ground against Navy. 
The success of the Irish ground game will rest on the broad shoulders of the offensive line, led by seniors Aaron Taylor and Tim Huddy, and their ability to open holes for the Notre Dame backs. All starters of the previous three games are completely healthy, and Hyan Leahy will be back to give more depth at the 
Player to Watch .. .Corey Sawyer 
O
ne of the key figures for the Seminole 
defense is cornerback Corey Sawyer, 
The 5-11, 171 pound junior is a feturn~ ing starter with big play capabilities. 
Sawyer is an intimidating force in the defe-n~ sive backfield, leading the team: with ten ·pass­es broken up and three interceptions·on the year. 
Though his responsibilities are geared toward his pro­duction defensively, the cor­nerback also poses a threat to the opposition as a punt­returner. Last year, the cornerback ranked fifth in the nation in return yardage, ... with a 14.8 yard average. · 
Following in the footsteps Corey Sawrer of former great Florida State defensive backs, Sawyer was a second team All-American last year and this year is a leading candidate for the Jim Thorpe award, an honor bestowed upon the nation's finest defensive back 
His speed and coverage abilities allow the Seminole defense to blitz opposing offense!) freely. not afraid to leave their cornerbacks in man·to-man situations. 
Once they catch the ball, however, receivers rarely escape Sawyer's grasp, as 27 of his 35 tackles have been unassisted. 
Simply his presence is intimidating to· quar~ terbacks and special teams alike. Because of his close coverage and knack of making the big play, Wake Forest did not throw to Sawyer's side once during Florida State;s 54-0 thumping of the Demon Deacons. 
Likewise, punters do not like to give him a chance to show-off his punt-returning abili· ties, usually kicking away from him. His best opportunities came earlier this year against Georgia Tech. when he had six returns totalling 66 yards. . · 
With Notre Dame's punting problems,· Sawyer again may not find the chance to get in on the action in the special teams. It may be better for the Irish, though, to punt the ball 35 yards and not have a return rather than to give him time to choose a running lane. 
Sawyer will hope to spark the Semjnoles after the team's meager defensive showing last week against Maryland. T})e Tetrapins 

racked up 453 yards of offense again$t the ·.•. 11' ...:Mike Norh:fit 
Seminole defernie. nearly doubling the average 
yardage aUp.wed th~ S~,ml~~~~ defel)Se, ·· ····· "ln a waY.~:r · t~;di~happened,'t$a 
commented: "It ing to make us lwngri The .~oa re. g a}(~ ps w~~~. haf At er aiid t gi ... ..•..... e lis more mad !jiQ that when we go to.Sov,th Ben<}. we·l"~ go~g up th~re ~o:<festrptJh!'l !¥\ ..·.·.· ··: . · 
The corrierhack:wi~ e drawing a to assignment Saturday afternoon,. having to with the ed rish ;t'ecei.vets Mi~~ M' and cr h along with the heigh senior Lake Daw~on an?sop~omore Der 
Mayes. .····.·...•. . •·····. ·· .........·•··.·..· < ... . .··· 
Because of Notre Dame's concentration on the ground game, however, Sawyer'sproduq, tivity may depen<} on hovy wellhe can suppQrt the Seminole running defense. .Either way, look for Corey Sawyer to 10ake a big impact oil tomorrow's game~· 
OTHERS TO WATCH: Derrick Al¢xan~~:t'"'··6·5.••·... 26o•· pound.•sophB: more defensive e · ·· · ···.• 
In his .. . . .' .g .for tl,w Florida St8,~~ defense; er~ .. ve end has made ari hrtnte:.i diate impact, leading the team in quarterback sac~ and tackh~sfor a}pss. He is also secon,~ on. the team in tackleS; and has hatted doWfi four passes. •••.•. .. ··•· . . · · .. ' Though· · ~pgtP.lie~ in h~ pass ms~ techniqilt'ls. . sdphomor~'s speed and lower body strength allows him to shed blocket;!i 
easily.·and t.na~~ the .d~fensive. stop .in 
backfield, Eookfor Detrick Alexander to 
around theball all day tomorrovv. ...•.. >iF Clifton Abrahfi~.,.. 5'-.2r' 18~. pouJ,H{jun~grdefensive btu;k ·/'''. · <. ·. ·.. ·· .•···..• ···•····· 't Another p~turning sta;rter to the Seminple defensive unit, )\bralJ.at.n takes the .other P!i'l"; nerback spot and. With Sawyer, makesth.e most formidable coverage tandem in the couti­.try~ .. .• . 'll> . ...·.• .. ·.· . .... . .{j} 
The junior leadS,all defensive backs with 49 total tackles on the season. Abrahamhas also knocked downnve passes and intercepted one, which he returned 29 yards for the scote. He has scored on two qther occassions, b~~h being off .of blot.:~ed ·punts. ijis. capability to make the hig play m:ay be the differencein the 
gam~· . ... 
Photo Courtesy of Florida State Spots Information 
Defensive lineman Toddrick Mcintosh anchors the Seminole line from his defensive end spot. 
right guard position. 

The Irish running backs will be busy tomor­row. Juniors Lee Becton and Ray Zellars will start, while freshmen Randy Kinder, Marc Edwards, and Robert Farmer have proven their ability to perform. 
NOTRE DAME PASSING VS. FLORIDA STATE AGAINST THE PASS 
The Irish like to run the ball. It's as simple as that. But is it that simple? "I think we've played well on offense, but we're one dimensional," Holtz said. 
In big game situations like this, Holtz likes to keep people guessing as to what he might do. If he senses Florida State's concentration on the Irish ground game, he may surprise his critics by becoming two-dimensional. 
If so, quarterback Kevin McDougal may be tomorrow's unsung hero. 
"(McDougal) reminds me a lot of Charlie Ward," Brooks said. "He can run that offense really well. I'm impressed by him." 
Though his passing yardage is about h 
that of his conterpart, Ward, McDougal has 
completed 62.8% of his 113 passes this year 
and has come through with the big play. 

His three favorite targets, Lake Dawson, junior Mike Miller, and sophomore Derrick Mayes average only about two receptions per game, but most for twenty yards or better. 
McDougal may also find a new target in tight 
end Pete Chryplewicz, though the freshman 
may have to pick up the blitzing linebacker in 
passing situations. 

The Irish will have to face one of the best 
defensive backfields in the nation, led by 
junior cornerbacks Clifton Abraham and Corey 
Sawyer, who have combined to collect four 
interceptions and a touchdown this year. 

The cornerbacks are complemented by the 
FSU safeties, Devin Bush and Richard Coes, 
who have 40 and 37 tackles, respectively. 

Once again, a lot of pressure will be on the 
Irish offensive line to give McDougal time to 
find his receivers. The Seminole defensive 
backs will most likely be in man coverage dur­
ing passing situations, as Florida State will 
blitz McDougal as much as possible. 

and Derrick Alexander will supply pressure. 
A matchup that Notre Dame may find favor­
able is the back out of the backfield being cov­
ered by Florida State's linebackers. To exploit 
this matchup, Notre Dame may introduce into 
their game plan a play-action pass, a strategy 
used before but not to a great extent. A quick 
fake may freeze the Seminole linebackers, 
allowing Becton and Zellars to release into an 
open area. 

The Seminoles had trouble with Maryland's 
run-and-shoot attack last week, as the 
Terrapins racked up 453 yards of total offense 
in the game. 

"They took it to our weakness and we didn't 
have the strength to fix that weakness," 
Bowden said. 

Notre Dame may not be able to exploit any 
deficiency that the ails the Seminoles defen­
sively, but their passes may very well deter­
mine the outcome of this ball game. Stranger 
things have happened. 
QUARTERBACKS 

Will the McDougal of Michigan or the McDougal of Purdue come to play? 
RUNNING BACKS 

Any one of five backs can carry the Irish to success. 
RECEIVERS 

The talent is there, and the opportunities are waiting. 
0-LINE 

Healthy and Huge. 
D-UNE 

Speed and size should give FSU's offensive line its most challenging test thus far. 
LINEBACKERS 

Bereich & Co. have shocked skeptics with depth, bur concern lingers over speed. 
SECONDARY 
~ 
Taylor and Burris can and have shut down the nation's best. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Kicking and returning have been consisrent, but punting game is in shambles. 
COACHING 

Lou Lou Lou What's up your sleeve? 
FINAL SCORE 
Ir's the moment of truth--can the Irish produce? 



page 4 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 12, 1993 
•
1n 


How do you stop the nation's most dangerous player? 
Versatile QB 
a triple 

threat 
C
harlie Ward, despite being a 
shoe-in for this year's coveted 
Heisman Trophy, may be the most electrifying player to visit Notre Dame Stadium this decade. Ward has all the tools of a lleisman winner, and pos­sesses the leadership skills to lead his team to the national championship. 
The final hurdle: tomorrow's "Game of the Century" against the Irish. 
"I do not remember there being ever a year where the lleisman raLe was over," said Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. "There's never been anyone else in thA race from day one." 
What does Ward bring to the table for the showdown? Just about everything. 
Number one, Ward's most impressive skills may be his intangibles. His ability to improvise cannot be ignored. 
Many a tackler have thought they had a clear shot at Ward, only to see him slip away for a long gain or a long pass play. 
Ward's unparalleled speed at the quarterback position makes him a con­stant running threat. Florida State coach Bobby Bowden will roll Ward out on pass plays to give him the option of run­ning the ball, and he is not afraid of tucking it in to gain some yards. He also has four rushing touchdowns this year. 
furthermore, Ward's ability to elude would-be tacklers within the pocket is also exceptional. Much like Irish quarterback Kevin McDougal, Ward is 
By Jonathan Jensen 


Photo Courtesy of Florida State Sports Information 

Quarterback Charlie Ward eludes yet another defender. The sleek quarterback is the primary concern of the Irish defense. 
adept at side-stepping defensive lineman and finding his receivers downfield. 
"He can avoid the rush until the receivers can get open," said Holtz. "And you aren't gonna sack him very often. He has such good peripheral vi­sion." 
Speaking of finding receivers, Ward has improved by leaps and bounds in that area. Last season, Ward was benched for a number of snaps after throwing nine interceptions in his first three games. He had difficulty reading receivers in his first few games as a starter, and was forcing balls into areas filled with defensive backs. 
However, Ward rebounded in his fourth game with a 20-35 performance for 256 yards and no interceptions in a 35-7 win over Wake Forest, and he has­n't looked back since. Ward ended the year 204-365 for 2,647 yards and 22 touchdowns. 

This season has been much of the same. As Ward has become proficient at running the intricate Seminole offense, he has cut down on turnovers and his decision-making process at the quarter­back position has improved immensely. 
This year Ward has completed 168 of his 241 passes for 2011 yards. Ward has also thrown for 16 touchdowns, and unlike last year, just one interception. 
Pressure and containn1ent keys to stopping Ward 
0 
ne of the biggest questions head­
ing into The Game is also a criti­
cal one: What will the Irish do in their attempt to slow down the multi­dimensional Ward? 
First, the Irish secondary, which may be the most impressive unit on the team and one of the greatest ever at Notre Dame, must come to play. Seniors Jeff Burris, Greg Lane, and John Covington, and sophomore Bobby Taylor will most surely have their hands full. 
The Irish deep four will most likely play an aggressive man defense against the talented Seminole receivers, to keep from Ward pirking away at the holes that would inevitably appear in a loose zone dnfense. The Irish may let Ward get away with passes under seven yards. but will provide tight coverage on any d1~cper routes. 
Taylor and Lane should not have that many problems by themselves, with Taylor isolating against sophomore Banker Tamarick Vanover and Lane taking on senior split end Matt Frier. The two match-up favorably. 
However, the Seminoles will also counter with senior Kez McCorvey and ·unior Kevin Knox. McCorvey and Knox are the two most talented bench re­ceivers in the country, and they will challenge the Irish. 
Burris will undoubtedly also take on man-on-man coverage responsibilities, and Covington must play his role as an enforcer in the defensive backfield. 
If he can get a shot in on one of the Seminole receivers. it may make them think twice the next time they run the 
ACS.....WIIl oonc&nlrate on t

A position-by-position look at the responsibilities prlmary pass coverage art of each player in stopping FSU's Charlie Ward 
Vanover, McCorvey, a.nd 
KJ'IQX1 but will a:lsll have to . . •..
help aut in containing .,., . \ Ward; may blitz 4/1 ?,-~'-' 
' ~~ 
. \! 
SAM LB-Prlmarlly he 
will prov1de run support, 
but he also has to drop 
back and cover the 
unctemeath zone or 
h" Hall day. 
FS-Pnmary pass support of mtddle third of field, and he 
~~,~~ye~:~~~~~h­
t 
out the whole play SS-Provades primary run
•'# support, but he will have conram res.ponslbillt~es on Ward and 
could be one·on~ona wtth turn, 
TE Johnson, whom 
; ) may also bhtz
Ward lQv~s to throw to 
Ap 

post and crossing patterns that Ward loves to complete. 
That brings us to the play of the Irish linebackers. The key to the game may be the ability of the linebackers to quickly settle into their pass drops against the Seminole shotgun offense. 
This formation gives Ward a clear view of the tield the moment the ball is snapped, and he will hit the 5-15 yard passes across the middle to tight end Lonnie Johnson and Co. all day if the linebackers fail to do their job. 
Consequently, the Irish may look to play a unit that ineludes quick freshman Bert Barry. and defensive backs Kinnon Tatum and Brian Magee. Both Tatum and Magee are excellent against the run, and their extra speed may prove to be what the Irish need at the linebacker spots. 
If middle linebacker Pete Bereich expects to be a factor against Ward's passing ability, he must concentrate on his drops. If he is unable to get to the spot, we may see Berry, junior Jeremy Sample, or fellow freshman Melvin Dansby inserted to help against the pass. 

A huge challenge will be when the Seminoles come out in their designated passing offense on third downs, with one back in the backfield and Knox, McCorvey, and Vanover split out. This formation should spread the Irish defense out and it will take great indi­vidual efforts from Taylor, Lane, and Burris to prevent sure catches and long gains. 
The Irish may also have fits with Ward's ability to run with the football. This is where the defensive line comes in. 
Ends Thomas Knight and Brian llamilton's main responsibility, besides putting pressure on Ward, will be play­ing under control and ensuring contain on the outside of the defensl'. If Ward gets around the ends, he may break some long gains. 
As far as putting pressure on Ward, this is an area where the Irish can be most successful. 
The Seminole offensive line may be their biggest weakness, and the Irish have had great success with their blitzes most of the year. 
The Irish should look to blitz Taylor and Covington, hoping that a blind-side shot on Ward may aggravate his rib injury and put him on the sideline. 
That may be the best strategy on how to defense Charlie Ward: keep him on the bench. 
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 5 
LB Derrick Brooks leads FSU defense 
E
very great defense is centered on one player, a man of extraordi­nary talents who can turn the momentum of a game around with a sin• gle play. For Florida State, that player is Derrick Brooks. 
A shoe-in for All-American honors this year, the junior is a returning starter at outside linebacker, and is in the running for both the Lombardi and Butkus Awards. 
And if a defensive player was ever con­sidered for the Heisman Trophy, Brooks would probably give his teammate, Charlie Ward, a run for his money. 
But what makes Derrick Brooks such a dominating force? 
First, and most importantly, is his uncanny ability to always be around the ball and to make the big play. 
Whenever a chance to break a game open appears, Brooks is always there to make sure that the Seminoles do not pass it up. 
In Florida State's first game, Brooks was a one-man wrecking crew, piling up 13 tackles and blocking a punt as the Seminoles trounced Kansas 42-0. 
Against Duke, he happened to find a pass floating right by him through the air. Once he caught it, he looked up to find a clear path to the end zone. Six points. 
Brooks twice found a ball pop out of a Clemson running back's arms and fall at his feet. One of these times he picked it up and sprinted 83 yards for the score. 
He wreaked havoc against North Carolina. Along with picking off an errant pass and returning it for a touchdown, Brooks also caused a fumble, and forced the Tarheel quarterback to hurry his passes five times. 
The only game in which he was not a factor was against Virginia. The junior sat this game out because of an injury, but returned to collect 13 tackles against Maryland last week. 
Through the first five weeks of this sea­son, Brooks was outscoring his opponents 18-14. Even with missing the Virginia game and seeing limited action against No. 3 Miami, Brooks still has managed to remain second on the team with 42 solo tackles, six of them for losses. 
"Florida State is not a real conventional 
defense," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
Brooks is the main reason for this state­
ment. Because of his versatility, coaches 
can continuously realign him according to 
the strength of the opponent's formation. 
In addition to his regular linebacking 
position, films have shown Brooks playing 
down on the defensive line, or even out 
one-on-one on a receiver. 
These odd alignments allow the 
Seminole defense to disguise coverages 
and blitzes. When a quarterback cannot 
read these defensive schemes, he cannot 
call a different play at the line, any many 
times the offense falls prey to the strength 
of Seminole defense. 
Speed is probably Brooks' best physical 
asset. lie can run the 40-yard dash in 4.5 
seconds, a physical attribute practically 
unheard of among NFL linebackers, much 
less college athletes. 
lie can blatantly run around an offen­
sive tackle on a pass rush, which has 
been the main reason for his two quarter­
back sacks this year. 
lie also can follow a receiver in man-to­
man coverage, even beating them to the 
ball. Brooks has intercepted two passes 
and has knocked down four others so far 
this year. 
Basically, he can, and does, do it all. 
By Mike Norbut 

Photo Courtesy of Florida State Sports Information 
Derrick Brooks replaced last year's Butkus Award winner Marvin Jones, and is the leading candidate for the award in 1993. 
Irish won't shy away from speedy Seminoles 
W
ith Derrick Brooks on the side of any defense, it may appear unstoppable. But there are a 
things that the Irish can do to turn helpless situation into one in their 
Since they cannot run away from 
Brooks, the only alternative would be to 
at him. To do this, however, Notre 
will have to outman him. 
One of the only disadvantages of this 
backer is his size. Weighing only 220 pounds, he sometimes can lose the power battle with offensive guards and tackles. 
He has held his own so far this year against the linemen of the Athletic Coast Conference. But these teams do not have the strength of the Irish. 
"It's very scary," said Brooks. "We're probably outmanned up front. They don't run at angles. They take it to you. You either have to get out of the way or take the hit." 
A position-by-position look at the responsibilities of each player In stopping FSU's Derrick Brooks 
Backs: Becton and Zellars 
must keep Brooks off bal­
ance, so he doesn't know if 
they'll run at or around 
QB McDougal will need 
to make good reads. One 
errant pass could result in 
a Brooks touchdown. 
Tight end: Chryplewicz will need to find a way to lose Brooks 
position of outside linebacker ------1 
Brooks likes to run around a block rather than take it head on. He has taken the hit in the past and has ended up on his back. This does not happen often, though. 
And even if Notre Dame continues to pound away at him, throwing two and three blockers at him on every play, he will fight back. He does hit like a truck and he will deliver a few blows to the Irish before the game is through. 
A second way to handle Brooks is to tire him. Forcing him to fight a guard or tackle on nearly every play cannot be healthy for his muscles. 
And with his limited play during the last four weeks of the season, Brooks may have lost some of the conditioning that helped him to single-handedly defeat Florida State's first five oppo­nents. 
"I don't think we've seen anybody with close to the power running game of Notre Dame," said Seminole head coach Bobby Bowden. "They have power running, the pure running game the balanced offense. I'm concerned about our ability to not wear down against Notre Dame." 

As Brooks loses energy, he loses his superhuman abilities, making him equal to most of the other players on the team. The Irish can take of this by isolating him with a back on a pass route or by running the option in his direction. 
The Irish coaching staff may have doubts in the offense's ability to run option, but quarterback Kevi McDougal has had flashes of this year, scoring against Michigan on 43-yard run, and setting up his tail­backs on several other occassions. 
"The thing that I'm most conce about Notre Dame is that they get football and don't give it back," corltmH ued Bowden. 
If the Irish hold to their normal possession game plan, they should it easier to run different plays tha could take advantage of the tired legs Brooks and the rest of the Seminole defense as the game progresses. 
A third way to try to handle Brooks would be to take advantage of his agg~:essiveness. A Notre Dame back like Lee Becton might not have speed to outrun him, but he might have to. Because of the linebacker's tenacious pursuit, he sometimes leaves his feet when trying to make a tackle. 
"Lee Becton is a deceptive runner," said Holtz. "He's not spectacular, he's had four straight 100 yard games." 
Becton could be just what the ordered. His speed has been tioned all year, but his productivity not lacked. 
Becton has proven that he can tackles all year, just as Brooks h shown that he can be juked. 
Proabiy the most important thing Notre Dame will be to make sure Brooks does not make the big play. This, though, is easier said than done. 
To keep Brooks from breaking thei back, the Irish will have to execut flawlessly. This execution will from holding on to the football to mak­ing crisp blocks to even hustling back to the huddle. 
Even with perfect execution from Irish, though, Derrick Brooks never be tamed, only contained. 



SEMINOLES 
The Last Time: 
Florida State 19, Notre Dame 13 
Florida State quarterback Rick Stockstill threw touchdown passes of 17 and five yards to Mike Whiting, and Ricky Williams ran for 135 yards on 15 carries, in what Bowdon ranks as his fourth­biggest win at Florida State. 
After the Irish tied the game up at 13 in the fourth quarter on a one-yard run 

by Greg Bell. the Seminoles picked off a Blair Kiel pass at the Irish 31 and drove Greg Bell for the winning score with 7:47 left. The one bright spot for the Irish was a 120-yard perfor­mance by Bell, as the Irish managed just 41 yards passing against the Seminole defense. 

The Records: 
Florida Stah• leads 1-0 Last ND Win: None Last FSU Win: 1981 Longest Series Streaks: 
FSU-1 (1981-pmsent) 

ND-none At Notre Dame Stadium: First nweting 
FLORIDA STATE SEMINOLES 1993 ROSTER 
1 Andre Cooper WR 6-3 170 Fr. 47 J. Roberson OLB 6-4 243 Jr. 2 Clifton Abraham CB 5-9 185 Jr. 48 Todd Rebol ILB 6-Q 220 So 3 Scott Bentley KS 6-1 175 Fr. 49 Eric Black OLB 6-3 243 Fr. 4 Corey Fuller CB 5-11 197 Sr. 49 David Walker OLB 6-0 205 So. 
5 J~ QB 6-4 212 Sr. 51 Kevin Bush ILB 6-3 240 Fr. 6 Steve Gilroor FS 5-10 100 Jr. 52 Daryl Bush ILB 6-3 218 Fr. 6 lilrold Wright WR 5-9 170 So. 53 Clay Shiver C 6-3 260 So. 
7 Aaron Dely WR 6-0 183 So. 54 Greg Spires ILB 6-2 230 Fr. 8 CoreySawyer CB 5-11 171 Jr. 54 Rick Anteau ILB 6-0 220 Fr. 9 Dan Mowrey KS 5-11 185 Jr. 55 R. Wilson OLB 6-3 220 Fr. 
10 Demel< BrOO<s OLB 6-1 225 Jr. 56 Samuel Cowart ILB 6-3 215 Fr. 11 Devin Bush ss 6-0 205 So. 57 John Nance NG 6-2 270 Sr. 12 Mai!Frier WR 5-11 194 Sr. 58 P. Boulware OLB 6-5 230 Fr. 
12 Thad Busby QB 6-3 200 Fr. 59 Andy Crowe C 6-3 258 So. 
13 Dan~ll QB 6-4 205 So. 60 Marvin Ferrell OT 6-4 282 Sr. 14 Jeff McCrone QB 6-2 202 So. 62 Mike Miller DL 6-1 263 Jr. 14 Willie M:Bride QB 5-11 209 So. 63 Matthew Siner DE 6-3 213 Jr. 15 Phillipiiley WR 6-1 175 So. 65 Chad Bates OL 6-4 270 Fr. 16 Rictlarrt Goes FS 6-Q 212 Sr. 66 Lewis Tyre OG 6-5 266 So. 17 Ctlarfie Ward QB 6-2 190 Sr. 67 Juan Laureano or 6-5 277 So. 18 Sean lt!mlet FS 6-0 205 Fr. 68 Gideon Brown OL 6-3 276 Fr. 
19 Mack Knight SS 6-2 200 Sr. 69 Patrick McNeil OG 6-3 277 Jr. 19 Danny Mar!al DB 6-0 203 Jr. 70 J. Donaldson OG 6-5 265 Jr. 20 Cly!le-AIIen RB 5-10 193 Sr. 70 Mark Jackson OG 6-2 280 Fr. 20 Jarres Colzie CB 5-1 0 160 Fr. 71Todd Fordham OT 6-5 261 Fr. 
21 ArthurGates RB 5-10 217 Sr. 72 Larry Fleming DE 6-2 262 Fr. 22 MlrqueHe Smith TB 5-7 195 So. 73 Greg Frey OT 6-4 277 So. 23 Bryon Capers S 6-1 210 Fr. 74 D.Campbell OG 6-2 243 So. ! 23 Shawn Gay SS 6-1 200 Jr. 75 Enzo Armella NG 6-D 258 So. I 24 Ricardo Preston TB 5-9 175 Fr. 77 J. Hernandez OT 6-3 277 So. 26 HaFElld Battles CB 6-0 192 Fr. 78 Marcus Long OG 6-3 300 Fr. 27 Rodll@V Wells CB 6-0 175 Fr. 79 Forrest Conoly OT 6-7 320 So. 28 Warrick Dunn TB 5-9 165 Fr. 
80 T. Vanover WR · 6-0 210 So. 29 Sean Liss P 6-4 200 Fr. 81 Kevin Knox WR 6-3 195 Sr. 29 ~rrell Spencer DB 6-1 194 Jr. 81 Torledo Wall WR 5-7 155 Sr. , 30 'OMarEIIison WR 6-2 195 Jr. 82 Terry Davis TE 6-3 238 Fr. 
I 

I 31 c. Williams FB 6-4 240 Fr. 83 Kamari Charlton TE 6-2 232 Fr. ! 32 Zack Crockett FB 6-2 237 Sr. 
84 Ernie Green WR 6-1 190 Fr. 33 Tiger McMillon TB 5-9 186 Jr. 84 Robert Morris TE 6-3 240 Jr. 35 Sean Jackson TB 6-2 222 Sr. 
85 Lonnie Johnson TE 6-3 230 Sr. 35 D.~ · WR 5-7 145 So. 86 Tyrant Marion DE 6-2 245 So. 36 Ken Alexander ILB 6-4 247 Sr. 87 Billy Glenn TE 6-3 259 Jr. 37 Jeremy Morris S 6-2 202 Fr. 88 Kez McCorvey WR 6-0 180 Jr. 37 Kendrick Scott ILB 5-10 216 Jr. 
89 W. Messam WR 6-4 208 Fr. 
I 38 Scott Holmes P 6-3 210 So. 90 D. Alexander DE 6-5 260 So. 38 Dan LaRose S 6-3 192 Jr. 91Tra Thomas DE 6-8 288 Fr. 39 Melvin Pearsall ILB 6-2 218 Fr. 92 Gerald Owens DE 6-2 257 Jr. 40 Alonzo Homer ILB 6-2 232 Sr. 
93 Chris Cowart OLB 6-3 232 Jr. 41 Phillip Simpson S 5-11 195 Fr. 94 T. Mcintosh DE 6-3 268 Sr. 42 Jerrnaine Green CB 5-10 180 Fr. 
95 Julian Pittman DE 6-5 265 Fr. 
43 Eric Smith OLB 6-0 220 Jr. 96 Connell Spain NG 6-2 268 Fr. 44 William Floyd FB 6-0 240 Jr. 97 R. Williams TE 6-6 240 Fr. 45 Henri Crockett ILB 6-2 240 Fr. 98 Ben Mayer NG 6-0 260 Fr. 46 Travis Sherman ILB 6-1 21f Fr. 
99 D. Guerrier OLB 6-2 236 Jr. 
B 
teenth year at Florida State. 
Records: Overall 236-77 -3; vs. Notre Dame, 1-0. 
Head Coaching Experience: Four years at Samford (1959-62) and six years at West Virginia 

Highlights: Only coach in Division I history with six straight 10-win seasons; Is 10-0-1 in last 11 bowl e\
·--\ 
games, including a 41-17 win over Nebraska in the 
1989 Fiesta Bowl and a 27-14 win over the Huskers 

in the 1992 Orange Bowl. ~ '" ~ 
-----1993 Statistics 

RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE 
Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg Jackson 74.3 96 669 7.0 5 69 Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg Dunn 50.8 56 457 8.2 4 63 Jackson 669 144 0 813 90.3 
Smith 37.1 62 297 4.8 2 21 McCorvey 0 703 47 750 83.3 Ward 30.2 43 242 5.6 3 28 Dunn 457 189 34 680 75.6 Floyd 28.3 46 255 5.5 4 19 Vanover 38 467 25 530 58.9 Smith 297 103 0 400 50.0
PASSING 

Knox 0 436 0 436 48.4 Frier 12 335 65 412 45.8 Rating Comp Att Pet Yds TO tnt Long Floyd 255 30 0 285 317 Ward 160.9 168 241 69.7 2011 16 1 86 Ward 242 0 0 242 30.2 Kanell 206.2 36 49 73.5 499 7 0 78 C. Williams 211 15 0 226 25.1 Johnson 0 160 9 169 18.8 
RECEIVING SCORING SUMMARY 
No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
McCorvey  50  703  14.1  3  37  1  
Vanover  35  467  13.3  2  86  Florida State  90  
Knox  32  436  13.6  4  40  Opponents  14  
Jackson  25  144  5.8  3  15  

FIELD GOALS 
1993 FLORIDA STATE 
17-39 40-49 50+ Long Scan 9-12 1-1 o-o 47 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
"CJ's" Benlley 
Aug.28 vs. Kansas 42-0 PUNTING 
Sept. 4 at Duke 45-7 Sept. 
11 57-0
No Avg Long uss 24 39.8 55 
Sept. 1 33-7 
Mowrey 2 31.0 37 
Oct. 51-0 Oct. 28-10
INTERCEPTIONS 
Oct. 40-14 
No Yds TO Long 
Oct. 54-0 
Sawyer 3 0 0 0 
Nov. 6 49-20
Brooks 2 81 2 49 Goes 2 36 0 30 
Nov. 13 1:35 
Bush 40 40 Abraham 29 29 
Nov. 20 12:05 
Cowart 0 0 0 

Nov. 27 at Florida 12:05 

DEFENSE  TEAM STATISTICS  
T  A  Tot  FA  PBU  Tl  Sac  
K. Alexander  54  41  95  0  6  7  0.0  FSU  Opp  
D. Alexander  40  40  80  0  4  7  4.5  First Downs  265  137  
Brooks  42  23  65  2  4  6  2.0  by rushing  117  55  
Rebol  32  25  57  0  1  1  0.5  by passing  135  69  
Abraham  36  13  49  0  5  1  0.0  by penalty  13  13  
Goes  21  23  44  1  4  0  0.0  Total yardage  5054  2376  
Nance  16  28  44  0  2  3  0.0  Offensive plays  679  581  
Bush  26  17  43  0  2  2  0.0  Avg. yards per play  7.44  4.09  
Mcintosh  14  27  41  1  1  2  3.0  Total yards per game  561.6  264.0  
Roberson  15  21  36  0  1  4  2.5  Rushing yards  2372  1173  
Sawyer  27  8  35  0  10  0  0.0  Rushing plays  358  313  
Homer  18  17  35  0  2  3  0.0  Rushing yards per game  245.2  97.2  
Smith  17  16  33  0  1  0.5  Passing yards  2847  1501  
Knight  14  17  31  0  1  1  0.0  Passes completed  225  130  
Sherman  14  15  29  0  1  1  0.0  Passes attempted  321  268  
Marion  13  16  29  0  0  0  3.5  Passes intercepted  3  10  
S.Cowart  18  10  28  0  0  0  1.0  Passing yards per game  316.3  166.8  
C. Cowart  14  11  25  1  3  0  6.0  Fumbles /tumbles lost  15/10  12/6  
Crockett  19  5  24  0  1  2  1.0  Penalties I penalty yards  82/659  53/447  
Wilson  13  6  19  0  0  0  2.0  3rd down conversions  64·112  37·133  
Capers Armella  10 9  7 8  17 17  0 0  0 1  0 3  0.0 0.0  percentage 4th down conversions  57.1 NA  27.8 NA  
Green  10  5  15  0  1  0  0.0  percentage  NA  NA  
Spain  8  7  15  0  1  2  0.0  
Guerrier  4  7  11  0  1  1  0.5  
Hamlet  7  3  10  0  1  0  0.0  

The History of the Series 
2 3 4 Tot 115 126 68 399 13 21 10 58 

SCORING 
PAT  PAT  
TO  X2  X1  FG Sal  Pis  
"Get"Bent-ley 0  0 42-50  10  0  72  
Jackson  8  0  0·0  0  0  48  
Dunn  7  0  0·0  0  0  42  
Floyd  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  
Knox  4  0  0·0  0  0  24  
Smith  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  

KICKOFF RETURNS 
No Avg TO Long Dunn 3 11.3 0 17 Frier 6 10.8 0 22 
PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TO Long Brooks 1 35.0 0 35 McCorvey 2 23.5 0 43 Sawyer 20 6.9 0 22 
--------------------------·--~-------------------------------------~--.-------~-~~----~ 
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 


FIGHTING IRISH 

Lou Holtz 
Eighth season at Notre Dame. 
Records at Notre Dame: Overall 7 4-18-1; at Home 36­7-1; on the Road 36-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall185-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6­2; vs. Florida State 0-0. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 seasons). Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Title; Upset No. 1 Colorado in 1990 Orange Bowl. No. 3 Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl, No. 3 Texas A&M in Cotton Bowl. 
1993 Statistics 
RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE 
Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg 
100.0 124 800 6.5 4 70 Becton BOO 102 0 902 112.8 
56.1 83 505 6.1 2 70 Miller 0 382 266 648 72.0 
51.1 80 409 5.1 4 29 Zellars 409 73 19 501 62.6 
21.0 31 168 5.4 3 23 Kinder 505 0 0 505 56.1 
20.4 39 184 4.7 8 27 C. Johnson 0 99 347 446 49.6 
13.4 40 107 2.7 4 43 Mayes 7 365 0 372 41.3 
Dawson 4 338 0 342 38.0PASSING Farmer 176
168 8 0 22.0 Edwards 184 0 11 195 21.7 Rating Comp All Pet Yds TO lnt Long Burris 72 0 88 160 17.8 
157.4 71 113 62.8 1172 5 4 66 Clark 74 8 0 82 13.7 
218.8 19 24 79.2 281 3 0 80 McDougal 107 0 0 107 13.4 
,RECEIVING SCORING SUMMARY 
No Yds Avg TO Long 19 338 17.8 1 44 1 2 3 4 Tot 17 382 22.5 2 66 Opponents 23 44 23 39 129 17 365 21.5 2 80 Noire Dame 65 91 95 82 333 12 73 6.1 2 29 
8 102 12.7 1 35 5 99 19.8 0 43 
SCORINGFIELD GOALS 

PAT PAT 
TO X2 X1 FG Sal Pis17-39 40-49 50+ Long 

Pendergast 0 0 37-40 12 0 73 Edwards 8 0 0-0 0 0 48 Zellars 6 0 0-0 0 0 36 Becton 5 0 0-0 0 0 30 McDougal 4 0 o-o 0 0 24 Pendergast 10-13 2-3 0-0 44 

PUNTING 
Burris 4 0 o-o 0 0 24 No Avg Long 
Farmer 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 

18 39.9 55 7 37.4 44 
KICKOFF RETURNS 

3 33.0 46 No Avg TO Long
INTERCEPTIONS 
C. Johnson B 43.4 1 100 Miller 4 16.3 0 20 

No Yds TO Long 4 100 1 47 
PUNT RETURNS 

3 61 0 43 1 29 0 29 No Avg TO Long 
Burris 1 60.0 1 60

21 1 21 
Lane 1 17.0 0 17

0 0 0 
Miller 24 8.4 56

0 0 0 
DEFENSE TEAM STATISTICS 
T A Tot FR PBU TL Sac 51 21 72 0 3 3.0 0.5 Opp NO 37 20 57 1 1 6.0 5.0 First Downs 149 197 30 21 51 1 1 4.0 1.0 by rushing 50 131 35 11 46 1 4 0.0 0.0 by passing 89 60 37 6 43 1 9 2.0 1.0 by penalty 10 6 36 7 43 0 3 2.5 0.0 Total yardage 2607 3951 29 11 40 0 4 0.0 2.0 Offensive plays 586 610 24 13 37 0 1 2.0 4.0 Avg. yards per play 4.45 6.48 20 15 35 3 0 3.0 3.5 Total yards per game 289.7 439.0 24 9 33 0 4 0.0 0.0 Rushing yards 727 2463 23 8 31 0 0 2.5 0.5 Rushing plays 265 472 12 10 22 0 3 3.0 2.0 Rushing yards per game 80.8 273.7 17 4 21 0 0 1.0 0.0 Passing yards 1880 1488 17 1 18 0 0 3.0 0.0 Passes completed 201 91 14 4 18 0 0 1.5 3.0 Passes attempted 321 138 11 7 18 0 1 1.0 1.0 Passes intercepted 11 4 11 5 16 0 0 1.0 0.0 Passing yards per game 208.9 165.3 
6 4 10 0 2 1.0 0.5 Fumbles I fumbles tost 1218 1015 6 3 9 0 0 1.0 0.0 Penalties I penalty yards 591485 561466 4 4 8 0 0 0.0 0.0 3rd down conversions 50-132 53-109 4 3 7 0 0 0.0 0.0 percentage 37.9 48.6 2 4 6 0 0 0.0 0.0 4th down conversions 9-15 7-11 3 2 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 percentage 60.0 63.6 3 2 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 
3 4 0 0 0.0 0.0 
---NOTRE DAME STADIUM--­
Built in 1930 Capacity: 59,075 Largest Crowd: 61,296 (1962) Surface: Grass NO's Record There: 238-67-5 
One of the mose feared and respected land­marks in football histo­ry, Notre Dame Stadium has been home to more national championsh thany any other stadium in college football. 
NOTRE FIGHTING 1993ROS 
1. 
Derrick Mayes SE 6-1 205 So: 

2. 
Dan Farrell FL 6-0 164 Jr. 


2..LeShane Saddler FS 5-11 194 Sr. 

3. 
Ron Powlus QB 6-4 210 Fr. 

4. 
Lee Becton TB 6-G 190 Jr. 

5. 
Paul Failla OB 6-2 193 Jr. 

6. 
Mike Miller FL 5-7 157 Jr. 

7. 
Dean Lytle FB 6-3 240 Sr. 

8. 
Clint Johnson SE 5-8 180 Sr. 

9. 
Jell Burris FS 6-G 204 Sr. 

10. 
Adrian Jarrell FL 6-G · 194 Sr. 


11. 
Tom Krug QB 6-5 210 Fr. ­


11. 
Tom MacDonald SS 6-G 189 Jr. 

12. 
K. Pendergast K 5-10 168 Sr. 

13. 
Brian Ford K 6-4 190 Fr. 

14. 
Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 170 Fr. 


14. 
Colin Rittgers P 6-2 210 So 

15. 
Kevin McDougal OB 6-2 194 Sr. 

16. 
Chris Parenti QB s:1 193 Sr. 


16. 
Brian Peny DB 6-1 205 Fr. 

17. 
Brian Magee SS 5-10 199 So. 

18. 
Wade Smtlh QB 6-3 178 So. 

19. 
Anthony Swiney DB 5-11. 180 Fr. 

20. 
M. Andrzejewski SS 5~7 163 Jr. 


20. 
Cikai Champion WR 5-11 170 Fr. 

21. 
Bobby Taylor FS 6-3 191 So. 

22. 
Rob Leonard KP 6-1 186 Sr. 


22. 
Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 187 Jr. 

23. 
Brian Baker SE 5-10 179 Sr. 


24: C. Stafford FL 5-10 182 Jr. 
25. Brent Boznanski KP 6-3 174 Sr. 
25. 
Randy Kinder TB 6-1 205 Fr. 

26. 
Drew Marsh K 6-1· 187 SL 


26. 
Mark Monahan DB 6-G 175 So. 

27. 
Tracy Graham CB 5-10 197 Jr. 

28. 
Ron Hardin FB 6-2 227 Fr. 

29. 
John Covington SS 6-1 211 Sr. 

30. 
Marc Edwards FB 6-2 220 Fr. 

31. 
Robert Farmer TB 6-1 215 Fr. 

32. 
Willie Clark CB 5-10 181 Sr. 

33. 
Greg Lane CB 5-9 180 Sr. 

34. 
Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 Sr. 


34. 
Ray Zellars FB 5-11 218 Jr. 

35. 
TimKiusas TB 5-8 166 Jr. 


35. 
Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So. 

36. 
Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 Jr. 

37. 
Travis Davis TB 6-o 192 Jr. 

38. 
Rick Lozano FB 5-10 189 Sr. 


38. 
Sim Stokes DB 6-2 200 Fr. 

39. 
Kinnon Tatum DB 6-1 195 Fr. 


39. 
Marcus Thorne LB 6-0 215 So. 

40. 
Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 207 So. 41.Joe Babey LB 6-2 218 So. 


42. Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 155 Jr. 
42. 
Alton Maiden DE 6-4 260 So. 

43. 
Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 224 So. 

44. 
Jim Flanigan NT 6-2 276 Sr. 



-
I~======== =:I'==========~ 
,... l't 

.. 


-~-----~-------­
You're supposed to get alot out ofcollege,Out this is ridiculous. 
-
Macirl/osb LC .f75 4/EYJ, Apple Color Plus Macirl/osb Quadra~ 610 8/J{i/, Apple Color Plus 14" Display, Apple Keyboard II and mouse. 1-1" Display, Ajlj>le KIJ)~oard II and mouse. 
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to org~mize 
select Macintosh or PowerBook computer, you'll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy 
software programs. It's all included in one low price. And the software an Apple computer? It does more. It costs less. Its that simple. 1 
package alone has acombined SRP value of $596~ It was designed to Introducing tl1e Great Apple Campus Deal 
-
Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. 

Notre Dame Computer Store 

page 8 


Duel 

continued from page 1 
don't play anymore," said McCorvey. 
You have to wonder if the boys of Rockne's day could handle modern foot­ball. or more specifically this one game. George Gipp may be a little perturbed by the media circus and a layer of pregame hype so thick that even Irish fans couldn't wish for a thicker snow storm. 
"I think right now it is the game of the century," said Florida State head coach Bobby Bowden. 
"I think that the hype and everything else is on the outside, not on the inside," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "I think on the outside, what I have been able to witness, people are really talking about this game." 
Oh, really coach. Actually the media and fans are choking themselves with pregame hype. It is coming from all an­gles and in all degrees. 
-
The alumni and student body at both schools are swelling. In one letter to The Observer a Notre Dame graduate student suggested that the school fly the Vatican Flag from the stadium for good luck. That letter was countered by mail from an FSU alumnus who stated, "To tell you the truth I am tired of your 'holier than thou' attitudes. It will be a pleasure to see FSU run over sloths like Pete Bereich and Bryant Young, and more of a pleasure to irreverently bury a piece of 'God's Country' with all the rest of the less talented." The media has done their share too. The Chicago Tribune seems to moni­tor Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz's fore­casts like election returns. "Holtz will settle for a tie if the opportunity comes," followed by, "Holtz changed his mind and will go for the win." Coming in tomorrow's paper, "Holtz will elect to wear his collar out of his blue pullover," (This report subject to change in Sunday's paper). Even the Post Office is getting into the 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

COVER STORY 

act. 
It took Rockne {That would be Knute, for you Kez) 13 years of coaching, 105 wins, and 61 years underground before the United States Postal Service ac­knowledged his presence. We can only guess this game is more important, as a commemorative post mark will be used on November 12-13 at the Post Office on campus. 
It has a Leprechaun on one side and the Seminole logo on the other, with the date of the game running along the bot­tom. It will be used to void the Rockne stamps people mail. This game plas­tered across Rockne's forehead-some­thing's not right. 
Reporters have been digging so hard for stories that China is only a shovelful away. Does it matter that Lou Holtz's daughter-in-law once went to FSU and waived "hi" to Bobby Bowden on her way to the dining hall. It does to most newspapers across the country. 
T -shirts, ticket scalping, the talk of the now-so-dangerous rushing of the field. There's even the pregame talk that made the Miami rivalry so much more heated. 
Rumors surfaced mid-week that the Florida State defensive line called Irish quarterback Kevin McDougal and nicely (or not so nicely) told McDougal what they were going to do to him on Saturday. 
It turned out that one of McDougal's close friends from high school, Tyrant Marion. starts at defensive end for the Seminoles. McDougal assured us that the talk was not one-sided. 
Game of the Century, Game of the Millennium, the media and fans have thought of it all. They have almost ignored the game itself. which is just football, like Gipp played and Rockne coached, only faster and of more impor­tance. 
"Hivalries like Penn State and Michigan are built up over years," said Holtz. "As far as playing Florida State, the only thing that makes it important right now is the magnitude of the game." 
The winner has one hand on the 
\ 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz 
national championship, and a likely date with Miami in the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Day. 
But first things first, these two teams boast different styles but similar results. Winning is commonplace in South Bend and Tallahassee, and everyone is look­ing for a reason why their team will come out on top. 
For Irish fans it is Holtz and the two weeks he has had to prepare for a team deemed as unbeatable. 
"The open date has been to our advantage, I think we made good use of the open date particularly that our play­ers got a couple days off and got a chance to get away," said Holtz. 
"There isn't anything I do as a coach (that gives Notre Dame an edge). If we do have an advantage it certainly doesn't have to do with the fact of coaching or that we're going to come up with some great schemes. We've never won a football game because we made up some decisions as coaches to out­smart somebody." 
Maybe, maybe not, but Holtz thrives on being the underdog. 
"I like being the underdog I just don't like the reasons why. What I am really surprised at is how big an underdog we are," said Holtz. "Playing at home, we're undefeated, but we're probably as big an underdog as we have been playing at home since I've been here." 
Even Bowden concedes the fact this is Friday, November 12, 1993 

Holtz's type of game. 
"This is his element. For one, he is an underdog. He eats that up. And for two. he has had two weeks to prepare. He eats that up also." 
Holtz's mojo set aside. Bowden and the Seminoles are brimming with confi­dence, an arrogance which comes from being the top team in the country and surely the most talented. 
"We're just treating this as another ball game." said All-American line­backer Derrick Brooks. "We're used to playing in big games. so this is just an­other one we have to win." 
"This game is just another hurdle," said Bowden, "but it's a rather big one." 
Some say a close game would demand a rematch. That would make the next Game of the Century only a little over a month away. But that is a notion which Notre Dame's coach quickly dismisses. 
"I don't think Notre Dame has a chance (at the national title) unless it wins this football game," said Holtz. "It's been my experience that Notre Dame drops substantially when we lose." 
Irish fans are hoping for poor weather conditions, and the forecast is obliging slightly. Fifty-degrees with a good chance of rain is what most weather services are predicting, which to some means an Irish advantage. 
"This is for the national ti tie," said Brooks. "You can't use weather as an excuse." 
Holtz has said he wants clear skies. as a game of this magnitude should be played under ideal weather conditions. His faith in his team is evident. 
"I've never seen him so confident as he was the Michigan week," said McDougal at a press conference Wednesday. 
And what about this week? 
"Even more confident." 
Weather forecasts, a national title, trash talking and a postmark, this game is lacking very little, awaiting only a cli­matic finish. 
"If I wasn't in coaching I would count the hours till I could see this game on TV," said Holtz. 
That count started long ago. 
Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 

'lk«<!d o11/he combm<!d SuRJiesled /lelmll'rlci!s !SliP) ofthe producl< in The Cam{ll« Sojlu-are Set far .1/acmiO:ih as ofOc/o/x'l' I, 1993. ,\ojiuwre is not illc/Uikd ill the ortMinal product paciu1MinM as shou11mlb~< ad. But you will rea1w the><' same .mjlu•are proM"'""' m1111 ini<'Mrated f"'clzaxe fmm Apple. @1993 Apple !.lJmf!u/er. Inc. All rlMhl' resert•ed. A/JfJie, the Apple fogo, Macintr;<h, Macin/O:ih !}uadrtl mul Pou~rBook are reMl<tem/lril<kmark.< q(Apple Comfmler. Inc Pou·erBook Duo"' a tradt!lllilrk ofApple CimzpuiL'I'. l11c. 

Friday, November 12, 1993 

. 







1n1e L 

-
-
Composure will be especially impor­tant Saturday when he faces the biggest challenge of his career. 
Not only is McDougal facing the best defense he has faced all season, he is also surrounded by an unprecedented media circus. A microphone is around every corner, a notebook in everyone's hand. 
"When you come to Notre Dame, you expect to play in a game like this," McDougal said. "I have been concentrat­ing more on (school) work this week and I have been calling my parents a lot, just to talk. That helps me get away from all the hype." 
There was one phone call this week that only helped build the hype. 
One of McDougal's best friends from high school, Tyrant Marion, starts at defensive end for the Seminoles. He and his buddies on the defensive line gave McDougal a call earlier this week. 
"We had some fun on the phone. We did a little trash talking, and we talked about the game and about bragging rights," McDougal said. "They said I bet­ter watch out and they'd be breathing down my neck. We'll see." 
Ward will be the feared quarterback on the field Saturday. Notre Dame's defense has worked for two weeks to find a way to neutralize His Heisman­ness. 
As far as the Seminoles know, McDougal is just the guy that hands off to Lee Becton and Randy Kinder. Notre Dame's running game is Florida State's biggest concern. 
McDougal doesn't mind. His ultimate goal is still in sight. 
"Coach Holtz said during Michigan week that if we follow the game plan we would have a good chance to win the national championship," McDougal said. "That was good because I told him that before the season started, so I guess we were on the same page." 
Holtz doesn't worry about first downs with McDougal in the lineup anymore. He knows his quarterback is capable of leading the team to the championship. His only concern now is that McDougal gets a chance to take his game to pro­fessional level. 
"Kevin McDougal has just done a beautiful job. I hope he gets a chance to play on the NFL level," Holtz said. "I would never bet against Kevin Mc­Dougal." 
The odds will be against him Saturday. 
Kevin McDougal has quietly waited for his day to shine 
H
e could have slipped into by The attention is already here. mediocrity, or even Jason Kell A national championship and 
slipped quietly out of town to play quarterback somewhere without such a long waiting list. 
During three years as a backup quar­terback, few people knew his name, sometimes not even his coach. 
Notre Dame had Rick Mirer calling the signals, a durable dandy destined for NFL stardom. Kevin McDougal watched from the sidelines. 
"I always thought that one day I'd get my chance," McDougal said. "Playing one year here is better than playing two or three years at any other school." 
An accomplished golfer, he waited to play through. 
Three freshmen quarterbacks arrived in 1990-Clint Johnson, B.J. Hawkins and McDougal. So faceless were Mirer's understudies that Irish coach Lou Holtz formed a composite, Clint McHawkins. 
Johnson moved to wide receiver. Hawkins moved to Georgia Tech. McDougal stayed, but his anonymity did not. 
Nine games into his first and last sea­son as the starter, McDougal is on the threshold of a national championship, an accomplishment that eluded some of Notre Dame's most celebrated quarter­
backs. 
Signal-callers like Mirer and Joe Theismann and Heisman Trophy win­ners John Huarte and Paul Hornung all left without a title. 
"I would love to win a national cham­pionship," McDougal said. "That's the ultimate goal here and it's great that we have a shot at it this late in the season." 
McDougal comes face to face with des­tiny on Saturday. Destiny dressed in scarlet and gold. 
He is in a familiar position as the game approaches. He is the No. 2 quar­terback. He is the leader of the No. 2 team and, in the minds of many, is No.2 in terms of ability to Seminole quarter­back Charlie Ward. 
"I kind of like being in the background because I'm able to relax," McDougal said. "I just want to play a great game and then let the attention come." 
Y McDougal's place in Notre Dame football history rest on the outcome of the matchup against No. 1 Florida State. 
"I have to treat it like every other game," he said. "I just want to practice well and play well and have fun." 
Less than three months ago, it looked like McDougal would spend another sea­son on the bench. 
Freshman Ron Powlus cast a shadow that seemed even larger than Mirer's, directing the offense with the composure and skill of someone much more experi­enced. 
"I told Kevin (in the preseason) that if everything duplicated itself in the last scrimmage I had no other option but to start Ron Powlus, he was just playing brilliantly," Holtz said. 
"Kevin said, 'I understand, but I'm still confident that I am the quarterback to lead Notre Dame to a national champi-:;1 onship.' I thought 'My goodness gra-'" cious, you can't even get us a first~ down.'" ~ 
When Powlus broke his collarbone and ~ Holtz's heart in that final scrimmage, 5 the opportunity to lead Notre Dame fell g' into McDougal's lap. ~ 3
In the season-opener against
Northwestern, it looked like Holtz's assessment of his ability might be accu­rate. The offense sputtered under McDougal's direction. Notre Dame's only first half points came on linebacker Pete Bereich's 20-yard interception return. 
A McDougal fumble set up Northwestern's go-ahead touchdown early in the second half. 
"After they took the lead (Notre Dame tackle) Aaron Taylor said to me in the huddle, 'It's time to go now," McDougal said. "I said, 'I'll meet you at the goal line.'" 
At that moment the Notre Dame offense became McDougal's. He direct­ed four second half scoring drives, lead­ing the Irish to a 27-12 win. 
The next week he reminded many of Notre Dame's most recent championship quarterback, Tony Rice, leading the Insh to a 27-23 thrashing of Michigan t~at thrust the Irish back into the title picture. 
"Kevin has had good days and bad days just like everybody else, but he has done everything you could possibly ex­pect him to do," Holtz said. "He has patience and perseverance and the way he believes in himself is outstanding." 
That self-confidence is what kept McDougal at Notre Dame. It's what kept him ahead in the spring quarterback battle with Paul Failla. It's what kept him calm when he struggled early in the 
season. 
"Every quarterback has to have confi­dence that he has the ability to the lead the team," McDougal said. "I've strug­gled a little at times, but I always be­lieved that if I kept my composure things would start to go my way.'' 


The ObserverfT.J. Harris 

Place your bets. 
Kevin McDougal has been inconsistent with his play but not in his confidence. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 12, 199 3 
-


arne of the century. This is a phrase that would intimidate most college foot­ball programs, but seems almost mun­dane and routine at Notre Dame, where the Irish have been involved in more games of this magnitude than any team in the country. 
The Irish have staked their reputation on perennially taking on the best teams in the country, and seem to be always involved in the race for the national champi­onship, either as a contender or dangerous underdog. 
Since the inception of Associated Press rankings in 1936, Notre Dame owns a 7-14-1 record when playing the top-ranked team in the country, and since 1970 that record is 6-5. When playing against the favorite, the Irish are usually in the game until the end. 
The Irish have also had their share of success at the top of the ladder, playing 76 games as the No. 1 team and owning a 62-11-3 record in that span. Many of these wins have come against top flight competition, as Notre Dame is 116-86-9 against Top 25 squads. 
Twenty-seven times No. 1 has met No. 2, and the top 
----~----------------­
Notre Dame's Past 
No. 1 vs. No. 2:  4-2-2  
Against No.1:  7-14-1  
At Home  1-4-0  
HoltzEra  2-1-0  
As No.2:  0-2-1  
At Home  0-1  

seed has won 18, but only two of the last eight. Those two were Notre Dame. Florida State on the other hand, owes one of its most infamous loss­es to a battle at the top, as the Seminoles, ranked No.1, lost to No.2 Miami when Gerry Thomas missed a field goal wide right in 1991. The 'Noles' national cham­pioship hosts sailed away with the errant kick. 
Surprisingly, the Irish have fared better away 
from Notre Dame Stadium in the battles for the top, going 0-1 in the friendly confines of home but 2-0-1 on the road. 
Chronicled here are Notre Dame's performances in other "games of the century." 
November 19, 1966 No.1 Notre Dame-10 No.2 Michigan State-10 
The game labeled as "the most anticipated game ever" lived up to its hype, as the Irish rallied from a ten-point deficit to tie the game in the third quarter. 
The game itself was almost secondary to the media blitz preceding it, as its importance as the first-ever nationally televised game turned this into the first "Game of the Century." 
The game did not start well for the Irish, as MSU all­American Bubba Smith wreaked havoc with the Irish oiTense, knocking starting quarterback Terry Hanratty out of the game, while the Spartans also got on the board quickly behind a 4-yard run by Regis Cavender and a 47-yard field goal by Dick Kenney. 
However, the Irish were not about to roll over, as backup quarterback Coley O'Brian came in and threw a 34-yard strike to Bob Gladieux to narrow the score to 10-7, followed by a 28-yard Joe Azzaro field goal which deadlocked the game. 
Defenses dominated the rest of the game, although the Irish were able to get what looked to be a decisive break, as Tom Schoen intercepted a Spartan pass and returned it to the MSU 18. However, the Irish pro­gressed successively backwards, and Azzaro missed a 42-yard field goal. 
The last four minutes of this game may be the most questioned in college football history, as revered coaehes Daffy Daugherty of Michigan State and Ara Parseghian of Notre Dame decided to play conserva­tively for th£: tie, neither team opening up the passing game. A., time ran out, disappointed fans funneled out into the streets of East Lansing, with no better answer as to who was the best team than before the game. 
In defending his conservative play calling, Parseghian stated after the game, "We'd fought hard to come back and tie it up. After all that, I didn't want to risk giving it to them cheap." 
December 31, 1973 No. 3 Notre Dame -24 No. 1 Alabama -23 
Although legendary coach Bear Bryant termed it "just another big game," this Sugar Bowl contest would decide the national championship, but more impor­tantly to many observers, would decide the dominance of two opposing regions. 
Before the game, references going back to the Civil War were repeatedly seen in the papers, as Deep South would meet North on the battleground of Tulane Stadium. 
The game itself was a back and forth affair, high­lighting the strategies of legends Bryant and Parseghian. A 93-yard kickoff return by Alphonse Hunter gave the Irish a momentary lead, but a half­bark to quarterback pass put 'Barna back on top 23­21late in the game. 
However, the Irish were able to rally down the field, ending their drive with a short Bob Thomas field goal. 
After pinning Notre Dame deep in its own territory, the Tide looked to have one last chance, but a gutsy third down play resulted in 38-yard completion out of the Irish end zone from Tom Clements to Robin Weber. 
"I'd have to say that this is the finest team I've had in my ten years at Notre Dame," stated a joyous Parseghian after the game. 

Somehow they do it. Call it skill, call it the Notre Dame spirit, whatever. The bottom line is that in big games the Irish rarely foil 


Notre name"·~·~· 
against the 
by Timothy Seymour 



Best 
Top~Chris Zorich led Notre Dame to a 31-30 win over Miami in 1988. 
Left-Greg Davis' clip in the 1991 Orange Bowl negat­ed Rocket Ismail's 91-yard punt return for a touchdown. 
i 
a. 
< 


October 15, 1988 No. 4 Notre Dame -31 No. 1 Miami-30 
The Lou Holtz era has been the most successful in big games, and this one may be the biggest of all to Irish fans. Miami came to South Bend with a 36-game winning streak, but the contention had been that Notre Dame Stadium might be the one place that streak would end. That contention proved to be correct. 
In a game of this importance, it is rare that one moment is remembered as being so monumental, but Pat Terrell's deflection of Steve Walsh's two-point con­version pass with no time remaining will forever be ingrained in the memories of Irish fans. 
What is forgotten is that Miami moved the ball at will on the Irish, with Walsh throwing for a reeord 424 yards, but that the Notre Dame defense, led by Frank Starns and Chris Zorich, turned the game by forcing seven Hurricane turnovers. 
Also forgotten is the consistency of the Irish offense, as Tony Rice engineered two long touchdown drives, as Notre Dame established that it could score with Miami. 
After the victory, and ebullient Holtz commented, "This was a win by the Notre Dame spirit. It was a great game of two great teams who just competed as hard as anything I've ever seen." 
November 26, 1988 No.1 Notre Dame-27 No.2 USC-10 
The Notre Dame spirit proclaimed by Holtz is more important than victory in his mind, and it was this pre­cept that caused him to send home tailbacks Tony Brooks and Ricky Watters, the leading Irish threats out of the backfield, the night before the biggest game of the season, because they had shown up late for a meeting. 
On Saturday, however, Notre Dame acted as if Brooks and Watters had never played a down, as Tony Rice carried the Irish offense, gaining 86 yards on 13 carries, including a 65-yard run on the option during the first Irish possession. Notre Dame also got a pair of touchdowns from Mark Green, Brooks' backup. 
"We were so close (to the national championship)," lamented Trojan quarterback Hodney Peete, whose lleisman hopes were dashed by the loss. "To have someone come into your stadium when you're so close and take it from you, it hurts." 
Peete was valiant in defeat, completing 23-44 for 225 yds, but the Irish defense forced four turnovers and was stingy when it counted, stopping USC at first and goal from the Irish four. 

September 16, 1989 No. 1 Notre Dame -24 No. 2 Michigan -19 
Great players are at their best in big games, and this early-season contest was important, as one power­house would be knocked out of national championship contention. The difference was that Haghib Ismail was wearing blue and gold, not maize and blue. 
"The Hocket" silenced the 106,000 in Michigan Stadium with two second half kickoff returns for touch­downs, lifting an otherwise unsp1~etacular Irish attack. 
"It was a typical Notre Dame-Michigan football game, a very physical football game, hard fought, hard played. Any time we come up here to Ann Arbor and walk out with a win, we're happy," stated Holtz. 
The coaching staff had to be espedally happy that its conservative game plan was successful, as the Irish threw just two passes all game. However, the Irish were able to contend with the huge lines of Michigan, controlling the Michigan attack while grinding out a successful running game of their own. 
This effort would have all been for naught, of course, if not for the speed of Ismail. Ned Bolcar summed it up best, combining the two factors in Notre Dame's victo­ry, "Thank God for Rocket Ismail." 
January 1, 1991 No.1 Colorado-10 No.5 Notre Dame-9 
The one blemish in Holtz's big-game record comes with an asterisk, as a controversial call deprived the Irish of an upset in the Orange Bowl. 
With the Buffaloes forced to punt in the last minute of the game, Ismail caught the ball at his own nine and raced 91 yards down the sidelines for the go ahead score, but a questionable clipping call on senior Greg Davis took the points off the board. 
The Irish were without their usual luck all game long, as five turnovers and a blocked extra point pro­pelled Colorado to a national title. An untimely in­terception thrown by Rick Mirer at the Colorado 38 sealed the loss, especially painful because the Irish had driven downfield following the clipping penalty. 
"We competed hard, but turned the ball over and you can't do that. Three turnovers in four plays is disas­trous. you can't win football games doing that," explained a disappointed Holtz following the loss. 
-
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 11 
-
JOCK STRIP 

Big games business as usual at Notre Dame 
''This is not going to Notre Dame is 4-2-2 overall in solve Bosnia or No. 1 vs. No. 2 games, although Somalia, I don't it is 0-2-1 when ranked No.2. 
know why this is that big of a Quarterback Angelo Bertelli deal," Irish coach Lou Holtz led top-ranked Notre Dame to a said. 35-12 win over No. 2 Michigan "Why is it a big game? Are in Ann Arbor on October 9, 
they going to award a national 1943. championship trophy to the "The hype for the game was winner? If they aren't, it isn't great. It was Michigan against that big a game." Jason Kelly Notre Dame, which is a great 
The winners won't be'-------------' rivalry to begin with and the awarded a national championship tro-rankings just made it a huge game," phy Saturday, but the losers won't be Bertelli said. "Frank Leahy was very for­awarded one in January. mal and a perfectionist to begin with, 
The team whose name is carved on but he was even more so that week. The that trophy will likely be invited to the coaches left no stone unturned, they White House, so maybe this game will scouted Michigan perfectly. help solve Bosnia or Somalia. "Both teams were loaded. Fortunately 
It's a very big game. for us, Creighton Miller played the game 
It has been building since Notre Dame of a lifetime and we thumped them." beat Michigan two months ago. Eight Notre Dame went on to win the weeks of speculation ends Saturday national title and Bertelli captured Notre ­afternoon. Dame's first-ever Heisman Trophy. 
"People are really talking about this The most famous No. 1 vs. No. 2 game because its No. 1 vs. No. 2 late in games in Notre Dame history ended in the season and Notre Dame is involved ties. and Notre Dame is the underdog, a vari-Johnny Lujack made a touchdown­ety of different things make this game saving tackle to preserve a 0-0 tie with exciting on the outside," Holtz said. "But Army in 1946 and Ara Parseghian's con­from our point of view it's business as servative play-calling in the fourth quar­usual." ter kept Notre Dame and Michigan State 
No. 1 vs. No. 2 is business as usual at deadlocked at 10 in 1966. Notre Dame. Both seasons Notre Dame eventually 
Eight times since the inception of the won the national title. Associated Press poll in 1936, Notre "We'd fought hard to come back and we played a great team under tough Famous names like Bertelli, LujackDame has been involved in a game tie it," Parseghian said. "They get reck­conditions and we didn't lose." and Ismail are absent from Notre between the nation's top two teams, less and it could cost them the game. I Twice in the last five years, Holtz has Dame's roster this season. 
more than any other school. wasn't going to do a jackass thing like taken a top-ranked Irish team on the Names like McDougal, Becton and Most recently was a 27-10 win over that at that point." road to face the No. 2 team. Burris may one day join those men as Southern Cal in 1988. Some of the Notre Dame players might Both times the Irish were victorious. the legends of Notre Dame football. 
Florida State has been involved in only have liked a jackass thing like that to There was the 1988 win over Southern But they must first be a part of some­one, a 17-16 loss to top-ranked Miami in have a chance to win. Cal that propelled Notre Dame to anoth­thing special. 1991. "It was devastating," Irish quarter-er national title, and a 1989 win over Saturday is their opportunity. 
And once every 25 years, Notre Dame back Coley O'Brien said of the 10-10 tie Michigan when "The Rocket" was Holtz likes to tell his team that they gets to host one of these get-togethers. in 1966. launched. have 60 minutes to play a game and life­Notre Dame defeated No. 2 Iowa Pre-"We felt like we had lost the game and Sophomore Raghib Ismail ran back time to remember it. Flight 14-13 in 1943 and lost to top-any chance we had at the national two kickoffs for touchdowns to lead the Memories of Saturday's game will last ranked Purdue 37-22 in 1968. championship. But Ara reminded us that Irish to a 24-19 win. a lifetime. 













GO IRISH! 

We will stop the chop of the SEMINOLES! 
This week--Papa Predicts: Mama Predicts: The Papa vs. Mama ND 34 ND 24 Prediction Challenge FSU 33 FSU 23 ILcrt'eNights~ciailr -T,T4'rt~g~-, .... -I'artyP';ck'-,r 114';-L~rg;, 
I 9 p.m.• close II 1 Topping Pizza II 4 14" L g Ill'T · p • I 
I 1--14"Lare II $695 +Tax II .. ~re II lOpptng lZZal HOURS 
I · g. · II or 2 , 14" Large 11 1 T C?PPlllg II with 2 cans of ~oke 1 
I 1 Topptng Ptzza II 1 Topping Pizzas II Ptzzas II and Breadsttx I M:Th: 11:00 a.m., 1:00 a.m. 
I +Tax I
$595 I $1195 $2295 $1QOO fn,Sat:11:00a.m.,3:00a.m. 
-. I +Tax I +Tax II +Tax I Sun: Noon, 1:00 a.m. 
• Additional Topping> .951 each•IIAdJnional Toppings 95¢ each ~-··Additional Toppings .95¢ each ~, ••Additional Toppings 95~ each Mts.l INu1 ValtJ Wtth Any Other Coupon ..J INm Valid With Any Other Coupon ..J INot Vahd With Any Other Coupon ..J INot Valid With Any Other Coupon ..J 
~-------'------------------' 

.... _______ ..________ ..____ 
Fast Hot Perfect 
The Most Popular Number on Campus! 

-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, November 12, 1993 
Why Notre Dame will win ...p w:~: y F .t o :d d <i S t a t e wi n w i n . . , 
Physical running game much too tough for undersized FSU 
O
ver the past two weeks, I have been asked time and time again about tomorrow's big game. "Do you think we can win?" has been the most frequently-asked question. 
My answer, time and time again, has been a resounding, "Yes." 
By JONATHAN 
JENSEN 
TheObserver 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame 31 
Florida State 24 
The Irish will shove the ball down the Seminoles' throats and win the game on the strength of a superior, more physical front. 
Tim Ruddy, Todd Norman and Lombardi Award finalist Aaron Taylor will manhandle the Seminole front, opening gaping holes for a group of shifty tailbacks, including Lee 
Not that I am the world's L_________J Becton, Randy Kinder and 
foremost authority on college football, but I think I have a handle on the game plan that can lead the Irish over the Seminoles and into a national champi­unship game. 
In case you haven't noticed, the strength of this year's team is its ability to run the football. 

The characteristic of every great Notre-Dame team has been its penchant for grind-it-out football. 
A weakness of No. 1 Florida State (There are few) that has been diagnosed is its possible susceptibility to a running team who can control the line of scrim­mage and the time of possession with a strong running game. 
It all fits together. The Irish will beat the Seminoles by featuring its physical, diversified rushing attack and keeping the ball out of Charlie Ward's hands by establishing long, grueling scoring dri­ves. 
As the Seminoles have faced a myriad of weak rushing teams from the pass­happy ACC, the Irish defense has come up against two of the nation's best pass­ing offenses in Stanford and BYU. The only team that Florida State has faced with even a credible running game is No.3 Miami. 
The Hurricanes found that they could run the ball against an undersized FSU front and linebacking crew, and they were successful in their attempts to mount long drives by featuring the ground game. 
The Irish boast the nation's most diversified rushing attack, one of the nation's best offensive lines, and a coach that loves to run the football. 
The result? 
Robert Farmer. 
Meanwhile, bruising fullbacks Ray Zellars, Marc Edwards, and Dean Lytle will run through, block through, and lit­erally mow over Seminole defenders like defensive end Derrick Alexander and linebackers Ken Alexander and Derrick Brooks. 
The Seminoles have not faced a team with such an array of physical players across the board as the Irish, and they will be worn down by this punishing style of play. 
Some have said that the Seminoles boast one of the best offenses college football has ever seen. They have four top-notch receivers and four excellent running backs, plus a Heisman Trophy­caliber quarterback. 
However, all their awards and statis­tics won't mean diddly when they line up against an Irish defense featuring the likes of physical specimens like Bryant Young and Brian Hamilton and NFL-cal­iber defensive backs by the names of Bobby Taylor, Jeff Burris, and Greg Lane. 
The only possible stumbling block for the Irish is a problem that has plagued Notre Dame in nearly all of its losses during the Lou Holtz tenure: turnovers. The Irish can ill afford to turn the ball over, giving Ward and the FSU offense extra chances or good field position. 
However, the Florida State defense does not stand a snowball's chance in hell of stopping the vaunted Irish rush­ing attack, so if the Irish limit their turnovers to one or less, it will be a long day for the Seminoles: a long day of down-and-dirty, grind-it-out Notre Dame football. 

~
Seminoles too talented on both sides of the ball 
Irish, but FSU may 'have the 
T
he weather. By better backs. Sean Jackson Touchdown Jesus. MANNY DIAZ and Warrick Dunn are both Number one against averaging over five yards per
FSViews 

number two. Poor showings in carry. They are excellent their last games. Knute receivers and have both had Rockne. Holtz vs. Bowden. All big games in the rain. of these are great stories lead-PREDICTION: William Floyd, the best full­ing into Florida State's second Florida State 34 back in college football, cre­"Game of the Century" of 1993. Notre Dame 13 ates enormous holes for the 
But when the ball is kicked tailback to run through. lie is off just after 1:30 Saturday af-L__________J also a great runner and receiv­
ternoon, none of this will matter. It's the Irish against the Seminoles, the best of college football. 
So who has the advantage? No mat­ter what the weather is, or how much tradition is seeping out of the ground, the Seminoles are clearly the better team. The reason is simple. They have the best offense in the game. They also have the best defense. 
Offensively, they could be the best ever. 
Charlie Ward runs the show, and should show no signs of rust after sit­ting out a week against lowly Maryland. The only way to stop Ward is to keep him off the field. 
The problem is it doesn't take long for him to hurt you when he's on the field. A scoring .drive of over three minutes is a rarity with Florida State's "fast break oiiense". 
What makes Ward even more unstop­pable is his supporting cast. 
The Seminole receivers are incredible and very deep. Matt Frier, Kez McCorvey, Kevin Knox, Tamarick Vanover in the four receiver set are almost unstoppable. Notre Dame has not seen a passing attack as spread out as Florida State's. 
The best defense FSU has played this year was Miami's. The Hurricanes see the spread passing game every day in practice but were still not able to stop it. 
The weather won't stop it, as the offense has performed in inclement weather several times successfully. 
Bad weather could mean a running game. Many give the edge here to the er. 
Leading the way is an underrated line which has only yielded four saeks this season. 
Taking this into account, it will be almost impossible for the Irish to hold the 'Noles under 30 points. 
With that being said, our attention shifts to the defense. FSU's defense has already blanked four teams this year. It starts with the quick and deep defensive line, similar to the one the Cowboys use. 
With Derrick Brooks' return (he had 13 tackles last week in his first game back), the Seminole linebackers are fast and tough. 
Notre Dame's success running the ball may come up the middle. The Seminoles are too fast to give up suc­cess to the outside, on an option, for ex­ample. 
The secondary may be asked to play lots of man to man coverage to help the run defense, but that's where they are at home. 
With their speed and coverage ability, they will be able to take away the big strike. 
The Irish may be able to turn in a big play on special teams, but the Seminoles are just too much for Notre Dame. 
Lou Holtz's team will not be able to hold FSU's offense, and the Irish cannot win a scoring contest. 
Holtz said he'd go for a tie if it came down to it. Scott Bentley would love to kick a game winning field goal. Neither will be necessary. 
Notre Dame's best hope is to keep it close so they don't drop too far in the polls. 


Jonathan Jensen Overall: 54-34 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Syracuse Virginia Alabama Penn State Auburn Iowa Washington Arizona Michigan Ohio State 

·-~·· 
Jason Kelly Overall: 51-37 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Syracuse Virginia Alabama Penn State Auburn Northwestern Washington Arizona Michigan Ohio State 

George Dohrmann Overall: 54-34 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Syracuse Virginia Alabama Penn State Georgia Northwestern Washington Arizona Michigan Ohio State 

Bryan Connolly Overall: 25-19 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Syracuse Clemson Alabama Penn State Auburn Northwestern Washington Arizona Michigan Ohio State 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
The Observer Sports staff chose a 
few members of the editorial board in thanks for their support of the twelve-page bonanza which has become the FSU pullout. Well, actu­ally, about eight other options fell through. 
Observer 


Sports Staff 
Last week: 28-16 
vs 
Observer 


Editorial Staff 
Last week's guests: 25-19 

#1 Florida State at #2 Notre Dame Syracuse at Virginia Tech #18 Virginia at Clemson Mississippi State at# 12 Alabama Illinois at #16 Penn State #7 Auburn at Georgia Iowa at Northwestern USC at #25 Washington #13 Arizona at California Michigan at Minnesota #19 Indiana at #5 Ohio State 

David Kinney Editor-in-Chief 
Notre Dame Virginia Tech Virginia Alabama Penn State Auburn Iowa Washington Arizona Minnesota Ohio State 

Kenya Johnson Accent Editor 
Notre Dame Syracuse Clemson Alabama Penn State Georgia Iowa 
usc 
Arizona Michigan Ohio State 

Kevin Hardman Managing Editor 
Notre Dame Syracuse Virginia Alabama Penn State Auburn Northwestern 
usc 
Arizona Minnesota Ohio State 

Rolando de Aguiar Viewpoint Editor 
Notre Dame Virginia Tech Virginia Alabama Penn State Georgia Northwestern 
usc 
Arizona Minnesota Ohio State 
• 
-
nn TEAM I'NtST Pl.ACI! VOTE.S) RECORD POINTll 11v.11 
1. 
1 2. 2 3. 4 
4. 6 
5. 3 6. 7 7. 8 8. 9 9. 11 10. 12 11. 10 
12. 5 
13. Arizona 14 14. 15 15. 16 16. 19 17. Oklahoma 20 18. Virginia 21 19. lnditna 17 20. le 13

Lou;. 
21. Co ·· 23 ~~: ;#~ 24 
24. Kamistate 18 
25. washi"ngton 
Michigan State 42, Southern Cal40, Illinois 37, North Carolina State 19, Virginia Tech 13, Syracuse 10. Bowling Green 6, Fresno State 5, Michigan 5, Kentucky 3, Nevada 2, Arizona State 1, Cincinnati 1. 

SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan CONTRIBUTING WRJTERS: Jason Kelly, Bryan Connolly, Jonathan Jensen, Mike Norbut, Timothy Seymour Friday, November 12, 1993 



Special postmark and postal cards commemorate big game 
BCAF offers post-game entertainment 

By BARBARA KLEIN Accenr Writer 
After all the excitement over the "game of the century" dwindles, Saturday evening the Black Cultural Arts Festival (BCAF) will present Black Images, the 8th Annual Talent Show, featuring comedy, dance, and music. 
The doors of Washington Hall open at 7:30p.m. and the show will begin at 8 p.m., and the event costs $3. The event is comprised of a variety of activities featuring: stand-up comedy, songs and raps, dance routines, poet­ry recitations and a live band. 
A comedy troupe comprised of stu­dents will also perform skits and commercials during the show, involv­ing the audience in some of the acts. 
Following the Talent Show, guests may join. the festivities at the upper deck of Coveleski Stadium, costing $4 at the door. (Directions to the stadium will be given after the show.) 
A special preview of the 7th Annual BCAF Fashion Show, "Expressions," will also be unveiled during the Talent Show. The audience will get a taste of the models and fashions to come in the March 26, 1994 show. 
"This is just the BCAF's version of the Sorin Talent Show and the Keenan Review," said Tom Steele, president BCAF. The show is for everyone, not just Afro-Americans, according to Steele. 
Proceeds from the show will be 

donated to the BCAF Thurgood 
Marshall Scholarship Fund. 
"This year's show will run more smoothly because we have eliminated the intervals between acts. The audi­ence will not sit as long or be as rest­less," Steele added. 
During the Talent Show and the Voices of Faith Choir Concert on Sunday, the BCAF will collect dona­tions for a toy drive to benefit the Center for the Homeless, coordinated jointly by BCAF and the NAACP. 
The donations will purchase gifts for the children in the community. "This is a nice gesture, especially with the Christmas season coming up. Some children will recieve nothing for Christmas, and this is a good way to brighten their holidays," Steele said. 
"Thoor~ow~d~.no~heroo~~~~~1~R~o~r~ld~a~S~~~t~e~@~I~2~N~o~t~r~e~D~a~m~e~·;N~o;v;e;m;b;e;r;1;3~,;19;9;3;·~~~~~~~~~

versity has done a stamp cancella-II 'IIII~~~E~:Jm!i!IJm~:lnllllll:liillilill tion around a football game, "To celebrate Saturday's game between Notre Dame and FSU, the AlumniAssociation has Lennon said. produced a postal card that can be cancelled with an Irish green or Seminole red postmark. 



/ 

By ANALISE TAYLOR 
Accent Writer 
In cooperation with the U.S. Postal Service, Notre Dame and Florida State will mark Saturday's game with a special postmark featuring the colors and mascots of both uni­versities. 
The project developed out of a conversation at freshman orienta­tion between Chuck Lennon, execu­tive director of the Alumni Association and Head Postmaster Mike Walsh. 
"We were talking at Freshman Orientation in August about doing a special cancellation for orientation, and it evolved into doing something special for a home football game," Lennon said. 
The latest project is just one of several benefiting Notre Dame. 
In addition, the Notre Dame Alumni Association produced a com­memorative postal card that includes a 22 cent Knute Rockne stamp that can be cancelled with the postmark. Trimmed in blue and gold, the card includes a welcome to Florida State fans on cam­pus for the game. 
The cost of the card is $1, with pro­ceeds going to the Alumni Association Community Service Programs. 
The card is more valuable to stamp 
Special to the Observer 
Fof almost a fans have been cheer · for old Notre Dame ..,.. 
It was in 1908 when . Michael Shea and his"brother ·John, collaborated to ~mnntr'I~P.'""'­
the "Notre Dame March," and this yi;ar ••.,...>L·"'·"' ·'·· its 85th anniversary. ·~ 
Up until the creation of ·---,,~,l;;r~..::-~·: song, the cheers done at '"n•n•""'' Dame football games we very sporadic and home 
' with no musical acljutuu.tuu 
ment, and it was . the Shea brothers that some..c~­' thing had to be done. J,ohr{ , was an excellent writer ·and . 
·orator, who felt the "fight;'i· . ­; song" should be inspirational,~-Dame, :so he recruited Michael tQ-W'ake up tJ.~~.~···ei~ht.e& . . work on the melody. . . her namir. ·. · 
, On Easter Sunday in 1909, in Send d volle!J ·the rotunda of the Shake down · Administration building, the from the sky.""i:, . • ...· ·• ... · 
song was played for the first What though tlil!: · time, and now it has risen to great or small. .. ···~=,.,,,._.,..., become perhaps the most par-Old Notre ~me will tiJiirl'ove~rl odied, copied and arranged~ all. fight songs ever written. It While·· has several different arrange­
, ments for band, orchestra and 

~'·FiGHTING iHiSH 
\'l @> 
u>ilv'tn'Mr~:.;;·-! SEMINOLES 
WrtH£ PAM£ 
NOTRE O.AME JN 4&550 

To: 
collectors because it is hand-cancelled, Lennon said. The Irish green or Seminole red post­mark will be available Friday from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Alumni Association office in room 201 Main Building. 
The postmarked envelope will be sold from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame post office; and 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. at mobile units on the mall near the Clarke Memorial Fountain and inside Gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. 
The envelope will also be sold from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. at the mobile units and at a booth near the Varsity Shop in the J.A.C.C.; and from 9:30 a.m. to noon at the post office. 
The postal service will use the post­mark to cancel stamps only; however, Fighting Irish and Seminole fans can create their own souvenirs of the game by putting a. stamp on surfaces such as footballs, magazines, programs or T­shirts, according to Lennon. 

... 
Friday, November 12, 1993 
page 16 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD 



Seize the day, but don't forget to put trust in tomorrow 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a Bone{y 9od 

-
... 
"Carpe diem," I would begin, if I were giving the annual ad­dress to the Dead Poets' Society."quam minimum credu­la Postero." "Seize the day, put no trust in tomorrow." 
If I were the honored guest this year at the Society's black­tie dinner, seated at the right hand of the founder, Hobin Williams, whom I would remember to address as "Captain! My Captain!," I would offer the members a verbal mosaic sparkling with bijoux from the dead poets, with Andrew Marvell's "Carpe diem" piece, soliciting his coy mis­tress, as the centerpiece. 
"Had we but world enough, and time,ffhis coyness, lady, were no crimeJ...But at my back I always hear/Time's winged chariot hurring near." 
To say the grave's a fine and private place is easy, Andy. But the grave was not very fine for Romeo, finding his lovely Juliet apparently dead there; once his in-laws came crashing in, it wasn't very private, either. 
'Here, here will I remain/With worms that are thy chamber­maids,' says Romeo. He speaks as a young bridegroom, not as an impatient swain who fanta­sizes that if grass grows under his feet much longer, his mis­tress's long-preserved honor will turn to dust, "And into ashes all my lust."' 
The Dead Poets' Society comes to mind because 
the year is dying, and grave­yard poems with 'carpe diem" themes come easily to mind. 
In November, when the tree branches that shaded us from the summer's heat become win-that He never promised them a rose garden on this side of Paradise; Wilde could have fin­ished the story as he finished the poem: "How else but through a broken heart/May Lord Christ enter in?" 


Lads having the right stuff in them might enjoy hearing about Flewdurr's harp, though it is a children's story. It seems that the High King with his en­tourage was making an overnight journey through open country. As the darkness descended, it started to snow. Soon, the storm was blinding them; and they realized that if they wanted to survive the night, they would have to break their journey, and en­camp,where they were. 
The danger then was that they might freeze to death, since they had no wood for a fire. As they were taking stock of their dilemma, Flewdurr, the court musician, offered them his lovely old harp as fuel they could burn. The High King him­self objected that they would need more than a small harp to save them from the cold, and watched in sorrow as the harpist smashed his beloved instrument into kindling wood. 
Soon it was burning with a generous blaze which contin­ued as the blizzard worsened. At eight o'clock, the King's company heard music coming from the heart of the fire, in the heart of darkness. It continued all night, and so did the music, as the harp played back all the melodies struck on it in its life­time. 
Only at daybreak, when the storm was over, and the fire went out, did the music stop. Looking through the ashes, Flewdurr found a harp string made of purest gold. 
Would I leave the Poets' Society too far behind if I used Flewdurr's harp string as a metaphor for the soul'? After the body beeomes dust, some­thing will continue to survive and it is more precious than pure gold, sinee it is spiritual and immortal. The sou will sing to God a new song which it knows by heart. 
Ash Wednesday reminds Catholics that man is made from dust, and will return to dust. Does the Dead Poets' Society ever look at what .hap­pens at the body's decay? The American way of death keeps us from guessing at the horror. 
That's why it was surprising to find in the New Yorker an ac­count of what happens when a corpse decomposes, giving off an odor that no perfume can hide. Our theology tells us that death is a punishment; that's why the doctrine of the resur­rection of the body is so impor­tant. That's why the text from Job, set to music in Handel's Messiah, is so powerful. 
"I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:/And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my/flesh shall I see God." But the message of Job is light­years away from "Carpe diem." 
"Pale Death," Horace says, "with impartial tread beats at the poor man's cottage door and at the palaces of kings." Christian and pagan alike respect death as the equalizer. 
dows open to the sunset and evening star with which our day ends, the Church tells us to pay attention to those who have departed from this life, needing our prayers to help them on their journey to God. That's why my address to the Society may have echoes of a sermon I could give on All Souls' Day. 
The Dead Poets' Society doesn't need me to tell them that the mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. It wouldn't hurt them to hear the unfin­ished story that Oscar Wilde left behind him when he died as an outcast in Paris. 
It's about what happened when Jesus, in His own time, made a visit to the old neigh­borhood. First, He met one of the street people so drunk that he wobbled like a run down top. "Why did you let yourself get into this condition?" the saviour asked. "Because I was blind, and you gave me back my sight," was the answer. Later, Jesus met a bully who wanted to trade punches. 
"Why are you so quarrel­some?" asked gentle Jesus, meek and mild. "Because I was a cripple, and You told me to take up my bed and walk." Finally, the Lord stumbled over a wretched creature who lay moaning in the gutter. "What sorrow has brought you to this sad state?" the Lord wanted to know. The man answered: "When I was dead, you stood at the door of the grave and com­manded me to come forth." 
In the Gospel according to Wilde, what could have hap­pened to Bartimaeus, the man born blind, to the paralytic cured on the Sabbath, and to Lazarus, returned from the dead to make them unhappy with the place in the world to which Jesus brought them with His miracles. 
The lads who dote on dead poets should be able to recall "The Ballad of Reading Gaol," which Wilde was writing at this time. "It is sweet to dance to violins/ When Love and Life are fair:/To dance to flutes, to dance to lutes/Is delicate and/rare:/ But it is not sweet with nimble feet/To dance upon the air!" 
In Wilde's unfinished story, he projected onto his charac­ters the mood of the prisoners of Reading Gaol: "Something was dead in each of us/And what was dead was Hope." By the time he finished struggling with the disgrace of his down­fall, he must have figured out that although Christ gave the blind, the cripple, and the corpses their miracle, He let them discover for themselves 









~I~H'..E"'SS 
The place to go for all your Notre Dame sportswear and accessories! 
Dooley Room, 1st Floor LaFortune Student Center Phone (219)631-8128 
.HOURS  
Friday  ·9:oo·  am  ...  9:00  pm  
Saturday  a:oo  am  9:00  pm  
Sunday  9:00  am  3:00  pm  


REND

c:J-1<.."1COLATE 
I' A N Y 

Free samples available on Saturday, November 13 between 10:00 am -1:00 pm. 
IRISH EXPRESS proudly carr1es: 


S<eh COavid 

Meet the artist in the LaFortune Student Center on Saturday, November 13. 

.-----------------------------------------.------------~~--~~--------~--------------------------------~----------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 12,1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 17 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  ,,  WANTED  South Haven Ml gift idea: beach front condo, sleeps 6, fireplace, ski­ing, weekly-monthly (219)234-2626  MY FRIEND ... Please sell me your BC GA's... x1653  For sale FSU stud tix. Best offer Kellie 284-4346  NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$ LV MSG @ X2859 SHANNON  
'-----------------'  Wanted: 1(or 2) Stds. to share 6  ORANGE FIELD Pass needed\  
Typing 287-4082  bedrm house on NO Ave across from NO apts 2nd sem. 3 stds  FOR SALE  For Sale FSU stud tix Michelle 284-5086  In-Laws need pass to party for FSU game. Please Help!  
there already; rent & util 200/mth.  2 FSU MARRIED STU TJX 254.­ 299-0641.  
Professional Typing  288-5282  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  9175  WANTED: 2 ND/FSU tickets will  
Dissertations, Term Papers  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  pay top$ call Mike leave message  Selling FSU Stu tckt. Best Offer  
Reasonable Rates  FREE TRIPS & CASH\ Call us and  Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6  FOR SALE: FSU & BC TIXS.  24 hrs, (404) 319-7044.  233-9382 after 6 P.M.  
277-7406  find out how hundreds of students  days includes12 meals $279!  235-3394  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  2 Fla St tickets for sale 683-7275  ND FSU tix 4 sale call with best  
Resumes Lisa 273-6332  and LOTS OF CASH with America's  Cancun from Chicago $439,  I need 2 FSU tix, student or GA.  offer X4220  
#1 Spring Break company! Choose  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  Call Jim 287-0889  Need 2 std tix FSU 409-762-6645  
Jean, Jean the Typing Machine ­ Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  West $239, Day1ona Room w/  call collect  For Sale Sale, 2 FSU stu, 272­ 
fast and friendly! Call 18858 & leave  Panama, Day1ona or Padre! CALL  Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386  Tired of looking for rich alumni?  3263. Best Offer  
msg.  NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT  Will buy 2 FSU tix, student or GA,  1 45 yard line FSU GA for sale.  
TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or  2 round trip tickets chicago Ohare to  $75 each. Call 234-2667  Call George 634-1748  2 FSU Mar. St. Tix 4 sale. Best  
Freshmen: producers of our class  (617)424-8222  Baltimore Nov. 25-Nov. 30$100  offer over $400 takes pair. Call  
magazine, Experience '97, need  each. call Mary @289-0837  1 FSU student ticket for sale. Call  234-3442.  
your help. We're looking for funny  Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  ...FOR SALE ...  Kristin with your best offer at 634­ 
anecdotes that have happened dur­ Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go  2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston  4 FSU GA'S TOGETHER ON  2989.  FOR SALE: 1 FSU Stud. Tix.  
ing your stay on campus or my1hs  FREE! Best trips & prices!  12-14 $65ea. 508-771-6996  25-YD LINE. CALL BILL AT  Call Bob or Zeke x 1686  
you heard about NO before you  Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica,  291-6216  For Sale: Female student FSU tick­ 
arrived. Your ideas would be appre­ Panama City! Great Resume expe­ 1989 GEO Spectrum 5 speed, 2  et with matching 10. Best offer.  ANYONE WANT MY LAST TWO  
ciated. Please send/deliver submis­ rience! 1-800-678-6386!  door hatch back. 42,000 miles,  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ Call4-1464 between 7 and 8.  STUD TIX? SERIOUS OFFERS  
sions to 252 Knott or 212 Lewis by  VERY dependable $3500 OBO  ETS\2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call:  ONLY @237-9702  
Wed., Nov. 17. Questions. call  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  273-0282  A. Raczkowski  2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BO BY  
x4951 or x4135.  EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  NOV. 10 END ZONE, ROW 20.  
WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN,  Dependable 1986 Plymouth Duster  with jobs -will pay big $$$1  219-659-3910  NEED FLA. ST. TIX  
Need ride back to LI/NYC/NJ for  EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  Holly 271-8940  STUDENTS & GA'S  
Thanksgiving? 2 guys renting a car  LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  Need 2 GAs for any home game  1 FSU GA Call Greg (703)979-2014  
need 2 more people to share  HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP  Call Tim at 273-1757  PLEASE CALL KEVIN AT:  
expenses-c. $50 for roundtrip  SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE!  27S scientific calculator, with  4 Fla. St. Stu. Tix (Sec 32) For Sale.  X3574  
Call Matt ASAP at 273-1883  CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31  all documentation. Program  Best Offer. x4436  
formulas and love life. HP DeskJet  FSU Stud. Tckt.  
VOICES OF FAITH  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ printer (for IBM). Print in the  Best Offer  HELP! I NEED 2 FSU AND 4 BC  \NEED  
Earn up to $2000+/month working  privacy of your own room.  Newman 4-0505  GAS  CALL PAT X1689  1 BC GA OR STUD TIXIII  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ Call Rolando at 631-4541.  PLEASE CALL  
FALL CONCERT  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ DANIELLE  X2619  
Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  YAMAHA PSR-12 KEYBOARD  LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­ FOR SALE!I!  
Nov. 14  Summer and Full-Time employment  LIKE NEW, NEW $300, MAKE  6183.  2 FSU/ND GA'S  For Sale:  2 FSU GA's  
7pm  available. No experience necessary.  OFFER.  MAGNATONE 75 WATT  2 FSU/ND STU  Ryan x3679  
Washington Hall  For more information call 1-206­ GUITAR/KEYBOARD AMP WITH  We will purchase at handsome price  2 BC/ND STU  
634-0468 ext. C5584  VIBRATO & REVERB PEDALS  four seats together for the Florida  CALL 273-5942 WITH BEST  2 FSU MARRIED STUDENT TIX  
$200 CALL JASON, @237-9702  State game. Pis. call (800) 457­ OFFER  FOR SALE! CALL 273-5945  
Earn money for sororities/fraterni­ 0486.  
ties by selling Christmas wreaths &  FSU STUD FOR SALE  
trees. Call 234-1255 for info  1984 RED HONDA CIVIC, 5  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  PAT X4774  FOR $ALE!! 2 FSU/ND GA'S  
SPEED, 2 DOOR HATCH BACK.  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  CALL 634-3434 WI BE$T  
••••••••••••••..TND.............  BEACH or SKI Group Promoter.  VERY DEPENDABLE. $2150/0BO  2 FSU Tix For Sale ­ BEST  OFFER!I!  
TROOP NOTRE DAME  Small or larger groups. Your's  X3419  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  OFFER!! Call 273-6481  
Dance Club  FREE, discounted or CASH. Call  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  NEED FSU TIX  
Routine will be taught:  CM\1-800-423-5264  I have 4 FSU GA's.  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  FSU Student Ticket For Sale  STUDORGA  
NOV TUES16 & Thurs18  will accept best offer.  B/0 call 4-4435  x4519  
@Rm 219 Rockne  SPRING BREAK '94 CANCUN  Ask for Laura@ 284-5184  NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  
Tryouts:  Organize trip & travel for FREE +  $$$!!!!CALL TOM 254-9013  FSU TIX FOR SALE  
SUN, NOV 21  7-10pm  CASH Call College Tours (800)395­ BAHAMA -CRUISE  call X1665  
@JACC PIT  4896 -Rick or Louie  5 Days 4 niles $288/couple  FSU Stud. Tick. 4 Sale  
Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri  $$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA  Two FSU stud. tix for sale.  Best Offer  
Custom tailoring & alterations  PAPA JOHN'S is still hiring  10-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext. 607  STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  B.Q. Call273-4168  634 4433  
273-1483  drivers and inside personnel  
Flexible hours and 50% off  94 SPRING BREAK TRIPS REA­ For Sale: GA's for all games. 277­ IT"S THE SECOND COMING OF  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
Word Processing, term papers, etc.  PAPA JOHN'S Pizza!  SONABLE PRICES TO JAMAICA,  1659.  CHRIST! Saturday November 20,  
259-7402  Call 271-1177 or stop by  PADRE, CANCUN, BAHAMAS,  1993. Notre Dame Indiana. There  FOR SALE  
54533 Terrace Lane  FLORIDA! I!  Notre Dame-FSU tickets wanted!  is just one problem, Jesus doesn't  FLA. ST. GA'S (1 or 2)  
Anyone need a ride to the DC area  EOE  CALL CHRIS @ (219) 289-2767  Please call (407)438-3697  have aG.A. ticket to the B.C. game.  BEST OFFER  
for Thanksgiving? I've got a spot.  Oh, and Peter wants to come too.  277-4953  
Call Steph at 273-6548.  GREAT TEACHERS WANTED!!  UP TO 4 FSU STU. TIX TOGETH­ NEED 1 OR2  So if you want to get you and your  can leave message  
ILOST & FOUND I  Which of the following best describes you?  ER 4 SALE. 20 YD LINE. CALL X3506.  BOSTON COLLEGE TIX CALL 634-2856  mother a one way ticket to heaven, and some speanding money too, CALL: Jesus' agent-284-4451  will return calls of best offers +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
1. Dynamic communicator  Airline Ticket round trip from South  
BIKE FOUND BY NO SECURITY  2. Extremely sharp  Bend to Seattle Jan. 6th· Jan 15th  Ditch your in-laws  
21-SPEED FUJI MONTERREY  3. Superb at standardized test  $230.00 call Judy 631-4811 before  Need BC Tickets!  12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM  I have two pairs of ND/FSU TX, will  
RECOVERED ON NOV. 7  (SAT, ACT, GRE, GMAT, MCAT)  5pm M-F  x2846  BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND  pay 1 00+ to trade for 4 adjacent  
@4:30pm  4. Witty and clever undergrad or  STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME  seats Call Matt X2100  
grad student  -Bryan x1190  
LOSTI! Two Fall-Jackets during  5. Interested in a fun, great paying  FOR SALE: 1 or 2 FSU STUD  Need FSU Stu. & GA  Eric x1087  2 FSU STUD. TIX BEST OFFER X  
the weekend of USC game : one  part time job for the spring  TICKETS W/ I.D.  2969  
light grey with dark grey stripes  semester.  BEST OFFER  Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST.  For Sale 2 FSU stud tix. BO call  
and one navy-blue with a green  call273-1074 leave message  GA's. Call Dan X1694  x3299  FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA'S.  
collar. Finder pl. contact 1-4350  If you chose all of the above,  273-9838.  
and leave message any time.  please call Stacy Cody at  KAPLAN  FOR SALE 2 FSU  NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651  I need 2 GAs for FSU. Call Cori at  
TEST PREP in South Bend, (219)  STUDENTTIX  X4570 as soon as possible.  NEED 1 ND-FSU FEMALE STU­ 
272-4135.  leave best offer at  I NEED FSU Studs  DENT TICKET\!  PLEASE CALL  
X1956 or  X1950  Kevin x0542  1 FSU STUD tix for sale.  Leave  RICH X-4499  
Found: Copy card with lots of  name,#, and offer. 634-3811  
copies left on it, at the Hesburgh Library. Call 4-4987 to claim.  FOR RENT  '64 VW Microbus Mint Cond. $2950 287-2480  FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ I FSU STUD ticket for sale.  Call T  2 FSU stud. tix for sale, IDs includ­ed.Bestofferx3253  
ET FOR SALE.  BEST OFFER.  at X1480 and make an offer ASAP  
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ ONE-WAY TICKET ATLANTA DEC.  CALL DOUG AT 234-6306.  Notre Dame vs. Florida State tickets  
MISSING NO CLASS RING WITH  ND/SMC EVENTS  1 8 CALL IWA 634-2898  For Sale: FSU G.A.'s and STUD.  wanted. Paying 150.00+ for any  
FULL NAME ON IT FROM SORIN  (219) 291-7153  Dennis@ 634-1817  ticket. Call IDEAL Ticket Service 1­ 
HALL PURDUE WEEKEND.. LAST  19" color tv $80  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889  800-477-8457  
WEEKEND OF SEPTEMBER  Unbelievable bargain! $320.00/mo.,  273-1483  (MARK)  Need 1-4 BC GA's and 1 Stu  
REWARD $155 IF RETURNED  one bedroom apt.,  Call Brian x3467 or x0577  $$$$$$$$$$  
OR KNOW OF WHEREABOUTS OR FLORIDA STATE TICKET.  VERY close to campus and Martin's, carport incl. 273-6304.  TICKETS  I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306  I have 6 GA's for FSU showdown.  Desparately need 4BCGA's! Will  
PLEASE CALL RYAN AT 2290  Taking best offer. 273-6082.  pay BIG $$'s!!  
NEED LODGING -GAMES OR  For sale:  TOP $$$$for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's  Call Sara NOW  
LOST: Bright purple Columbia  ANY NO OCCASION-CALL 291­ Call Pat @ 273-5094  FSU and/or BC student tix  @ 273-5126.  
"Bugaboo" ski jacket with green lin­ 9011  2 FSU GA's  for sale. Call634-1680.  $$$$$$$$$$  
ing. If found, please call Joe  Need tickets-Notre Dame vs. FSU  Must sell.  
@1613.  6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS  Call Rita at 273-5837.  game. Call Jim (904)788-5060  1 FSU Student ticket for sale. Call  
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.  ASAP.  FOR SALE: 2 BC GA'S  Christy with best offer at 634-2966.  
LOST:  1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL  CALL x2824 WITH OFFER  
Camera, 2 lenses and flash in  NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306  FOR SALE  HAVE 1 FSU GA  1 FSU Stud. ticket for sale. Call  
brown leather bag from home side­ 2 FSU GA'S  WANT IT?  forsale 4 flo st ga 284-5144  Tonya with best offer at 634-2978.  
line after USC game  Lodging -Riverfront -Private.  634-4519  CALL MATTY x1865  
Call Mike x1187.  257-9101.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Needed: 2 tickets BC GAME Nov.  
Have 4 FSU stud Tix Same Sec..  FOR SALE:2 FSU GA'S. Call Kelly  FOR SALE: 2 FSU SENIOR STUD  20. Call412-561-42851v. msg.  
ROOMMATE NEEDED  Call 272-8292 or 4-3393.  @ 634-3723 & leave offer.  TIX together -will separate.  IDs  
To the thief Who stole ftball tickets  Spr. Sem.  incl. I'll throw in BC if \like you\  Have FSU GAS. Call Bruce at 517­ 
from my room in Farley Tues. night,  Trtle Crk Twnhs  To the thief who stole my ftball tix  2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. BEST  Best offer.  835-3291 between 8 and 5.  
I know who you are and I have a  271-1399  from my room in Farley Tues. night:  OFFER. MARTY x1521.  Jason 232-2263,1-6888  
witness. Slide the tickets under my  I know who you are and I have a  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Have FSU GAS. Call Bruce at 517­ 
door today-no questions asked, or  Lodging -Riverfront -Private  witness. Slide the tickets under my  835-3291 between 8 and 5.  
I will call SECURITY.  257-9101  door today -no questions asked, or  1, 2, or 3 FLORIDA STATE STU­ 
I will call SECURITY.  DENT TICKETS FOR SALE  Alumni is looking to trade 4 FSU  Have FSU and BC GAS. Call Bruce  
LOST-2 Macintosh Disks  2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES  Call 634-2856  Ga's and cash for better seats.  at 517-835-3291 between 8 and 5  
possibly in Lib. on 11n  NEAR NO  2 FSU,BC sen. studs for sale-call  Also in need of BC stud. + Ga's.  until Friday at 5.  
tan, 1 with BACK UP FILES on it,  AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR  Vic @ 273-2342. BO  Senior Section Student FSU TICK!  Call216-867-5775  
the other with MARK 3  232-2595  Will trade w/ $ for a GOOD GA  Have FSU and BC GAS. Call Bruce  
VERY IMPORTANT!!!  Call Chuck soon at x1717  2 FSU GAS  at 517-835-3291 between 8 and 5  
Please call 273-6242 if found  HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­ BEST OFFER  until Friday at 5.  
able for parents on weekends. 219­ 2 FSU Stud senior 4 sale  X0715  
291-2899.  call 284-5204  BETTY  
 
see CLASSIFIEDS I page 18  

--~-.----------------·-------------------------------------~----------------------------~~-----.-­
page 18 

Classifieds 
continued from page 17 
HELP! Need 1 BC ticket for Dad. X2454 Rebecca 
I Have 3 BC GA's +2 FSU GA's 
Call Tom @ 271-7807 
"*FSU Student Tix Available*** 5 or 6 Seats Together!! Call X3506 
If you wish to sell your FSU stud tix to my poor friends for $50 or less, please call X3587. Thanks. 
PAIRS OF FSU GA'S: $950/PAIR OR BEST OFFER. CALL JOE @ (219) 634-1624 
$$$$$$ FSU stud. 4 sale I Call (219) 634-2365 $$$$$ 
1 FSU Stud. Ticket for $190. Call me at X1480 ask for Trout. 
I will pay $75 for FSU stud ticket! Joe 237.0548 
OPPORTUNITY GAME OF THE CENTURY 1 FLA STATE GA TICKET FOR SALE .273-8938 
FOR SALE: FSU &/or BOSTON STUD MUST SELL X1667 
2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE CALL W/ OFFER X2535 
2 FSU GAs 2n-5912 
Need FSU. BC Ga's or Stud Tix call Sean @ 234-2793 
Help! I need 2 BC GAs or male student tick­ets. If selling any of these. please call Bridget X4015. 
NO vs. FSU stud ticket $400, call Pat X2113 
Sale Sale 2 FSU Stu, 272-3263 
For Sale: 2FSU GAs. Call 273-9805 and Leave Offer. 
hey i need BC GAs and Stud. bryan x1686 
Yes I still need a FSU ticket, Stud or GA. X­1305 
#@$#@$#@$@$#@$#@$#@$#@ 
Hot Notre Dame babe is selling her student FSU ticket.... For a good time on Saturday, Call Gertrude at 634-2706 
$#@$#@$#@$#@$@$#@$@$$ (*&(*&(&(&(&(&(&(*(()*(*)*))*))*)(*)& 
Six FSU GA's for sale .... Two and four are together... Best offer. .. 
Call Andy at 634-1750 
(*(* &()()')(* &(* & • &(* &(* &(*)(*)((* &() 
Need one BOSTON COLLEGE STUDENT TICKET. Call Kerri at x2635 to hear my pathetic, helpless voice. and the whiny, squeaky way I answer the phone with, "HIII­IIII." 
FSU Stud. for sale!! BO x4071 
FOR SALE 2 FSU GAs $500 EACH X0671 
FOR SALE 2 FSU GAS X4052 
2 FSU GAs FOR SALE X-1367 
2 FSU GAs and a student ticktet 
for sale ..... . $50 per ticket or best offer. call Kristin at 634-2729 

The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 12, 1993 

I Need 5 Stud Tix for FSU FOR SALE-ONE FSU GA Will Pay $150 each 2 FSU GA's 4 sale Also Need 2 GAs for FSU x3436 ASK FOR BRENDAN Please Call Mike x1862 $100/each 1 FSU GA JANICE (312)248-3630 I HAVE to sell my FSU STUDENT 
Nate or Mike 4-1588 TICKET. Today is Fri., tom. is the FSU GA's FOR SALE game. $200 and it is yours, now. CALL ROB X3249 Call Karen at (219) 634-2563 LEAVE BEST OFFER 
2 FSU & BC MARRIED stud tix **FOR SALE" 1 FSU 4 BC STUDS 4 sale (NO 10 NEEDED like GA) FSUGA BEST OFFER' Call @273-1176 x4335 GREG 282-2133 
I HAVE BILLY JOEL TICKETS 

PERSONAL
1FSU STU & 1BC STU 2 TIX FOR BILLY JOEL CONCERT FOR SALE LEAVE BEST OFFER FRIDAY, NOV. 19 IN CHICAGO CLAUDINE X2999 CALL NORM AT x1179 ASAP!!! Hey, didn't you know? 

Brian Kubicki is a great guy. I HAVE TWO FLORIDA STATE GAS. 2 Married stu tics for sale FSU/BC call277-Why don't you give him BEST OFFER GETS THEM. CALL ROB 8115. Best offer. AT X1601. Happy Birthday, Harvey! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Thanks for the present. 

-Tinkerbell FSU -2 SENIOR STUD TIX DESPERATELY NEED GREAT SEATS-45 YO LINE GA's or STUD TIX Greetings, SusanneIll I hope you had a BEST OFFER! !II CALL 232-4112 wonderful birthday ... Have fun this weekend ASK FOR LIZ FSU and try not to party too much. 
& 

BC Marie, good luck on both of your tests 4 SALE 2 FSU GA'S CALL SULLY 312 today. You'll do great.... 525 9470 CALL SEAN @ 234-2793 
Jackie, greetings thanks for the laughs last 4 SALE 2 B.C. GA'S CALL JAY 312 525 1 BC GA FOR SALE night, you too, Marie. 9470 Call 634-2907 
with offer, name & number. Carrie and Laura greetings ... 
Stepan Center 
ND/SMC/HCC Students $10 General $15 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
soecial guest Sun 60 Crazy Stuff and More!! ! 
tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 

Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city: summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music. the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369-2597 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 

Adoption Is Love Loving Indiana medical professionals eager to adopt newborn. Medical/Legal paid. Confidential. Call our home toll free to hear all about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224-2429. 
HOUSE PARTY!IHOUSE PARTY!! hosted by the ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION Friday, Nov. 12, 9:30pm-1:30am 
LaFortune Ballroom admission: $3, $2 for paid members HOUSEPARTYIIHOUSEPARTY!! 
Quality Copies, Quickly THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
631-COPY 

see CLASSIFIEDS I page 23 
East Location: 525 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 
232~1177 
21st Annual Summer Program 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 

Dooley Room-L3Fortune Student Center-631-8128 ND-SMC Students
Hours: 

LONDON ROME
Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm 

May 18 -June 1 7 June 12-July 11
Saturday, 8:00am-9:00pm 

Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. Scotland and France Germany, and 
Switzerland
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
Courses offered in 

BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
MEETING November 17 
6:30pm Library Auditorium Lounge, Notre Dame • Free Pizza • Past students and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
Have a great Birthday Killer! 
Love, 
Shannon 

----j. 
~•rt'TJ.,T'>'l fo. T'"' Q r ~"'"'r-r. 
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 j 

LIFE BEGINS AT 70 FOR BORN AGAIN AUTHOR 
He has been called "the most  disappointed," he said, "but I  of fingers) for  masses  there.  munity  and  support  and  Juliano. He is my ideal of a true  
unappreciated  man  on  the  am not discouraged. I will con­ "What I know about music  encourage one another.  Notre  Dame  man."  (Mike  
Notre Dame campus" as he goes about the daily perfor­mance of his ministries in quiet dedication. In the summer of his seventieth year, he added two new religious ministries to an already busy schedule. One of them, The National Legion of SER V, is an extension of SERV (Students Encouraging Religious Vocations), which he founded at Notre Dame four years ago. The other, the Saint Peregrine Prayer Society, is aimed at those who suffer from cancer and other life-threaten­ing diseases. Both of these new ministries are being operated by him out of his small, modest apartment in a former convent at Holy  tinue to try to develop SER V by whatever means at my dis­posal." To date, all of his min­istries have been supported almost entirely by himself. About Notre Dame, he says, "I am fortunate, indeed, that my life has taken me deep into the realm of spirited and spiri­tual Notre Dame life. I could never repay this University of Notre Dame and the people who work, study and minister here for all that they have given me; a reason for living, a meaningful life, a sense of accomplishment, a unique opportunity to contribute to so many in so many ways, hope for this life and for the life hereafter."  wouldn't rate a footnote," he says. Nevertheless, he has received many compliments for his organ playing and often, while practicing in the solitude of the Crypt, he places on the music rack photos of Notre Dame students who have died in recent years and to whom he addresses his music. Nor has he neglected the orphans and the widows. He has been a frequent "sitter" at a foster home in the area and often an entertaining visitor to the elderly in a local nursing home, where his rendition of Maurice Chevalier's "Thank  He is an active member of two Catholic parishes, Sacred Heart on the campus and Holy Cross, where he resides as man­ager of the Smith Center which provides housing for Notre Dame graduate students. Until recently, an important part of his spiritual life and a way of expressing his faith was to read Holy Scripture for masses in the Basilica. Father James McGrath, one of many Holy Cross priests for whose masses he has read, has gra­ciously referred to him as "quite simply, the best reader on cam­pus." Lately, however, he has ound it  Shields, author, "Greatest Moments In Notre Dame Football History") "Juliano is sport's leading 'bookie'." (SPORTS ILLUS­TRATED, referring to his knowledge of sports books and literature) "A capable man who has brought attention and com­mendation to the University." (Chairman, United States Olympic Committee) "Juliano has a home in annals of sports. He is the Answer Man of Sports." (National Italian-American Sports News) Like Archie Graham in "Field of Dreams," he never had an official time-at-bat in  
Cross Parish where he resides.  to  the major leagues, but his base­ 
In addition, his recently  man?  ball card shows him standing  
published  book,"NOTRE  on the turf of Connie Mack  
DAME ODYSSEY: A Journey Through Sports and  Stadium in 1946 and tells you that he has dedicated his life to  
Spirituality On The Notre Dame Campus," is being mar­keted by him personally with all proceeds going to support SERV and The National Legion ofSERV. At age 70, he is as busy or busier than at any time in his life. Seeing to it that SER V remains viable at Notre Dame is just the beginning. Although the Saint Peregrine Prayer  n d , !though about is sad­by his pri-Dame grotto, •·· helping to the singing and praying of is the Rosary. L----------,-------------:-----:--------'learning  sports, as a means to proclaim the Gospel and in the cause of world peace. It includes a cap­sule version of his life in sports, including his proposal for World Brotherhood Games, or "Christian Olympics," pat­terned after the ancient Olympic Games which were part religious festival and part sporting festival.  
Society is just getting off the  On any given home football  to live with it.  He may be the most unap­ 
ground, his National Legion of  Saturday, weather permitting,  Lately, with the publication  Prior to his coming to Notre  preciated man on the Notre  
SERV is beginning to attract  you will find him at his tables  of his "Notre Dame Odyssey,"  Dame, he had begun to build a  Dame campus, but he has a  
students from  all  over  the  behind  the  Sacred  Heart  there  is  more  mail  to  be  life in sports, as baseball coach  treasure trove of memories that  
United States and Canada who  Basilica, selling football photos  answered and more invitations  at a small Catholic high school  few can match. Moreover, he is  
are trying to discern a vocation to the priesthood or religious II.fe. Father R1"chard Drabik of the Marians of the Immaculate Conception, has referred to SERV as "a vital movement in our times." Other comments have been  from his private collection to visiting fans. He calls these photos his "Gallery of Legends" and for seven years all proceeds have gone to help his SER V organization and the Sacred Heart Parish. And, on any given First  to speak in public, the latter due largely to the fact that he has kept a sharp wit and sense of humor. He once suggested that Notre Dame priests hear confessions in the laundry "so •Ieveryone would come c ean.' Before proceeds from his  in New Jersey' as a pioneer developer of the Little League d k Baseball program an as a roo -ie enjoying a brief fling with the Philadelphia A's. His only claim to fame, he quips, is that he has a candy bar named after him: BUTTERFINGERS!  too busy to worry about whether or not he is appreciat­ed. Charity has been an impor­tant part of his life. Several years ago he donated a perfect­ly sound Pontiac station wagon  
equally encouraging. Father Brad Reynolds, a Jesuit voca­tion director, calls SERV "a  Friday of the month, regardless of the weather, he leads a few faithful students along the  book began coming in, he had just about depleted his life's savings in pursuit of doing the  d "Let's just say the A's retire my uniform while I was still  to the Women's Care Center to aid in the fight against abor­tions.  
creative and original approach to promoting religious voca­tions" and Father Gregory Staab, Oblates of the Virgin Mary, another vocation direc­tor, calls it "fantastic, respond­ing to a genuine need in the Church today." These accolades notwith­standing, he was denied per­mission to distribute SERV lit­erature during the World Youth Day activities in Denver last August, which left him bit- shore of St. Joseph's Lake on the Way of the Cross for an increase of holy vocations. Currently, he is working on producing a rosary booklet and hymnal to be used by visitors to the grotto, including a history of the grotto and a history of the rosary. If he has a few spare moments, he can be found in the Crypt below the Basilica practicing hymns on the elec­tronic organ, which he often  h 'd ddLor 's work, b fut i you c 1 e him for that, he would say with a wry smile, "The pay may be poor, but there's a wonderful pension plan." Since coming to Notre Dame in 1950, he has lived in nine different buildings on the campus, including the JACC, the Stepan Center and the Fire House. His dream is to some day have a "SERV House" near the campus where students try­ing to discern a vocation to  wearing it," he adds. Though he would probably scoff at them, here are some quotes from sources apprecia­tive of Herb and his contribu­tions: "You write very well..." (Father Ted Hesburgh) "He is known to everyone from SPORTS ILLUSTRATED edi­tors to sports trivia buffs." (Notre Dame OBSERVER) "Notre Dame could not have a  Also, he has been known to help more than one student to meet the challenge of a costly Notre Dame education. "After all," he says, "it is through good stewardship of time, talents and possessions that we all help to carry out Christ's work in the world." Then he adds: "Perhaps someday Christ will say well done. Not because I gave a lot. Because I gave a little, but it  
terly disappointed. "I may be  plays (with a minimal number  religious life could live in com- finer representative than Herb  was all I had."  

Presenting a Notre Dame Book that Comes Straight from the Heart! -A.iipr~~~~d; -£~~-~-~;i~ -~i i,~~k-i~ -;;i~f SERV:8-t-;;d~~"t~­NOTRE DAME ODYSSEY Encouraging Religious Vocations at Notre Dame 
A Journey Through Sports And Spirituality $12.50 per autographed book includes postage and handling. Please send_ copy(ies) of Notre Dame Odyssey at $12.50 per copy to: 
On The Notre Dame Campus by Herb Juliano Name.________________________________ _ A man who has spent most of his life involved with sports and religious activities on the Notre Dame campus, 
Address_______________ 
Herb Juliano has had rare insight into the heart of a great institution. 

City____________State_____Zip___ 232 Pages! Rare Stories! Rare Photos! Each Book Personally Autographed! 
Autograph to: ________________________ Among the 21 titles included in the anthology are: 
The INSPORT Years • Bulldogs and Sour Grapes • The Spirit of Notre Dame Personified • Notes from the Fire House and Beyond • Make check or money order payable to NOTRE DAME ODYSSEY and The Mooies o The Subway Alumni Saga • Say It Ain't So, Father: A Voice From the Subway • The Next Forty Years mail to: Notre Dame Odyssey, P.O. Box 211, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
j -l 
J 
-
...._ 
page 20 The Observer • CROSS COUNTRY Friday, November 12, 1993 
----------------------------~--------------­





-NCAA bids cross country's only concern 
Men hope depth can separate them from tough field 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
While most people will be ut­tnrly absorbed with this week­end's colossal gridiron clash with Florida State, the mem­bnrs of the Notre Dame men's cross country team will worry about more pressing matters. 
The Irish cross country team will be running in Bloomington, Ind., at the NCAA District IV meet. The Irish will be looking to finish among the top three teams at the meet, thus assur­ing them of a berth in the up­coming NCAA Championships. 
They will be opposed by some stiff competition, however. and any finish in the top three spots will not come easily. 
The seventh-ranked Irish thrive off hard work, and are hungry for a trip to the Cham­pionships. The team is coming off an impressive victory at the Midwestern Collegiate Champi­onships, and will be led by Mike McWilliams. 
McWilliams is a three time All-American, and is coming off a first place finish at the MCCs. McWilliams is supported by an all-star east. Teammates John Cowan and Derek Seiling fin­ished third and fourth, respec­tively, at the MCCs, and Nate Huder, J.H. Melon>, and Matt Althoff have been superb all year. Senior Nate Knuth ran a season personal record of 
25:47.1 at the MCCs. 
As far as the level of the com­petition at Saturday's meet is concerned, the Irish must fight to keep the likes of eighth­ranked Michigan and ninth-ranked Wisconsin at bay. run against them already this 
"Looking at the teams in our year. Wisconsin is another district, the level of quality is team that has been strong, as very high," says Irish coach Joe well as Miami of Ohio and Ohio Piane. "Michigan won the Big University. Indiana and Iowa Ten this season, and we have cannot be discounted, and no 


Improved teamwork key to women's success 
By AMY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team country team hopes to earn their first­ever NCAA berth this weekend in the NCAA District IV meet at Indiana University. 
Currently ranked 17th in the nation, the team plans to sur­pass last year's fourth-place finish, which was their pro­gram's best ever. 
The Irish captured their second consecutive MCC championship at Rose Tree Park, Pennsylvania, over fall break. 
The team finished with a total of 20 points, while Loyola was a distant second with 56, and LaSalle placed third with 87 points. 
"I think the MCC race is a good reflection of the potential of this team. There are cer­tainly going to be a lot of tal­ented teams at (districts)." said Irish coach Tim Connelly. "Michigan is obviously a great team, and the whole Big Ten conference is tough this year. 
"All of these teams will be difficult to run with but I am optimistic. Our team showed a concerted effort at the MCC's, and if we run like that we should be competitive." 
Usually the top three teams will earn a berth to compete in the NCAA's. 
The team went into the MCC's focusing on working together as a team. Their teamwork was evident, since all of the Irish's top five run­ners finished within 30 sec­onds of one another. 
"I feel this is the best this team has run from our num­ber runner through our num­ber five runner," said Connelly. "This is an example of how well this team can run and I am happy to see it all come together at a meet like the MCC Championship." 
"The MCC's are a good chance for us to really work together as a group and pre­pare for districts," said Riley. 
With the way the team has been running, they might also become a part of Notre Dame history this weekend. 

one should forget about Loyola. This meet is going to be inter­esting to see how things turn out. Our team is looking for­ward to the challenge, and I am looking forward to seeing how they respond." 
Ilow the Irish respond will depend largely on how McWilliams responds. The qui­etly confident team leader is feeling up for the race, and realizes what the team must ac­complish on Saturday. 
"We have to finish in the top three, preferably win the meet," said McWilliams. ··we will need to run as a group to be successful. A key compo­nent is Cowan, Seiling, and Hurler running together, with Joe Dunlop, Matt Althoff, and 
J.R. Meloro not far behind." 
The great amount of depth possessed by the Irish may be what separates them from the rest of the field. Junior runner John Cowan sees this as the Irish's greatest strength, and he is likely not alone in thinking so. 
"This is the strongest team I've ever seen going into the district meet, and we've got the potential to win it," said Cowan. "With a perennial All-American and a real strong seven guys, we have more depth than any other team in the district. We are expecting great things out of Derek Seiling and Nate Ruder this Saturday, and we're looking to finish strong." 
Should the Irish claim a first, second, or third place finish at the meet this Saturday, they will be assured of a spot at the NCAAs on November 22. 
Mens an cer NCAA regional 
will be broadcast live o WHME 103.1. The women contests will be broadcast a 11 am Saturday and 12 on Sunday. The men's rna will be at 2:30 pm Sunday. 
Irish Ice Club Hockey 
be held on Sunday Nov. 14 9-10:00 p.m. Please bring $ to first scrimmage. New mem 
ers welcome. Call Hob a 1950 or Pete at 273-5059 details. A Turkey Shoot will b 
eld on Monday, November 1 and Tuesday, November 1 from 4pm to 6prn. Co-He 
earns of two men and tw . It is open to all u rad and graduate students 
embers of the ROTC riO quad are not eligible. N xperience necessary. Call 
-6100 for more info. 
The RecSports Office 
Campus Squash. Tab! 
nnis and Co-Hee Wallyball. deadline for this is Nove 18th. The captains' meet­
ing for wallyball is Thursday, 18th at 5 p.m. in the tori urn. 
A mixed doubles tenni 
m will be practicing this unday at 9:00 at Loftus. No xperience necessary. All 
welcome to come. 


·eSAlEe
I 
Get Ready for the Big Game 
Wide Variety Don't get caught Wide Variety of Sweatshirts offsides and be left of Sweatshirts 
holding a bad deal. McKeel's has clipped their prices for you and you can score a TD there! 


All ND Sweaters 20% OFF 

-

McKeel's Boutique 
North Village Mall, 52565 US 31N 219,273,4888 
Hours: Man-Sat 9 a.m.-9p.m. Sun 11 a.m.-Sp.m. Accept Visa & Mastercard! 


54 Holes
of lndoo1
Miniature Golf 
Over 100 VIdeo Games! 
Open 7 Days a week 
Mo~.-Thur. 10 a.m. -I 0 p.m. Fn.-Sat. IO a.m.-II p.m. Sunday I p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Countrr, Shopping Center on Mckinley in M1sllaWaka 




254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 


Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • WOMEN'S SOCCER page 21 

play. With rain predicted for this weekend, Notre Dame is


NCAA 
nervous that the Patriots may be able to take advantage of the continued from page 28 smaller Irish players. 

the Irish, their 1993 record is the best in the history of the 
Mason, which was a soccer powerhouse in 1980's, has not qualified for tournament since 1989. It is only team in the 12 year ry of the tournament to a championship from the dominant Tar Heels . The Patriots 
so in 1985 when they de­ated UNC 2-0. George Mason's strengths are 
n its size and physical style of 



North Village Mall 52565 US 31/33 North (219) 271,1150 
Monday , Saturday 10 a.m., 8 p.m. Sunday Noon, 5 p.m. 
friday Ni8ht 5 p.m.-9 p.m. is NO Ni3ht 25% Discount on full &rvice

7-. 
Must have 0tudent ID 
full &rvice 0alon tlair • 0kin • Nails 

1357 N. Ironwood Corner of Edison 

I I IE ART 1\Nil SCIEN<T \ 'l I'lii\E FL\ )\XIf'l\ 1\NI) I'Li\N T Fc'SI'Nl :r,;

(0 Ironwood 
Hair C.arc • Skin Carl· • Colour Co~mt'lics 
"We need to get the ball on the ground and play in a short, contolled style," Petrucelli said. 
The Irish were disappointed on Monday when they discov­ered they would not be able to host the first rounds of the tournament this weekend. 
"I don't see any advantage to being a top seed," Petrucelli said. "We're not playing at home and we're playing a tough team." 
However, some players have been able to find a silver lining in the decision. 
"At first I was disappointed," Lester said, "but now I'm kind of glad because we can focus more on our game without all the hype from the football game." 
The anticipation of the long­awaited tournament is one obstacle the Irish will not be able to avoid. 
"There's a possibility of some nerves affecting us early," Petrucelli said, "but that will happen to other teams too." 
"Before the game, there will be a little nervousness," said freshman midfielder Cindy Daws, "but I think it will affect us positively." 
McCarthy 
continued from page 28 
individual effort. 
"I really wasn't nervous," McCarthy said after the game. "I knew we were going to score." 
It's that confidence which has characterized McCarthy's career. Even when the Irish faced off against powerhouse North Carolina, a team which had won its last 68 games and 11 of the past 12 national 
Grace Hall 
24 Hour Charity Run 
Fieldhouse Mall 
Friday 12 noon -Saturday 12 noon 
Raise Money for 
-~Northwest Neighborhood Center 
Tent Provided by AAY's Rent,All Co. 256,1110 

SUPPORT THE UNITED WAY BY PURCHASING 
THIS LIMITED EDITION COMMEMORATIVE T-SHIRT. 

only $10 

TIE BATTLE FOR #J 
NOVEMBER 13, 1993 

See your hall president by Friday \Wfuullcs ~1IDI¥>I¥>ililcs~ J1ooa: 
Sponsored by Student Government 
.... _ 
~----------------------------------~~­
championshtps, she was as unfazed as she is when she takes the field against some of Notre Dame's weaker confer­ence opponents. 
"I don't care who I'm play­ing," she said. "I don't get intimidated. I play with a lot of composure." 
"That's Michelle's personali­ty," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Pressure doesn't affect her. You will never, ever, se Michelle frazzled." 
However, the same claim cannot be made of her defend­er s. Michelle has been described by many as one of the best ball handlers in the country. When she has the ball on her feet, it is often impossi­ble to stop her. 
"I haven't seen anybody who can dribble the ball like Michelle can," Petrucelli said. "She's so good with the ball that she can play anywhere." 
"She can go through any­body," said fellow forward Stacia Masters. "She can swivel and beat the whole defense. Michelle has the best one-touch to settle the ball, and that makes a lot of things happen." 
The St. Louis native chose Notre Dame over several other outstanding colleges and soccer programs, including Duke, because she always loved the school and because she wanted to be a part of a team which grew to national prominence. 
This season, McCarthy and the Irish have been given the opportunity to take the next step in the national scene. They begin play in their first ever NCAA tournament tomorrow, and Michelle certainly doesn't feel that Irish will be out­classed. 
"I'll be disappointed if we 
don't make it to the finals," she 
said. 
Indeed, she would be, because no goal is unattainable 


-. 
·, 
_r 
~ 
... 
.. 
page 22 The Observer • SWIMMING 
FSU also swim teams' focus 

By KELLY CORNELIS 
SporrsWrirer 
Like most students on the Notre Dame campus, the Irish swimmers are gearing up for the Florida State weekend. But they are concentrating on beat­ing the Seminole swimmers, not the football team. 
Starting at 4 p.m. tonight at the Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Notre Dame men's and wom­en's swimming team will host Floridal!f)tate, in their first-ever meeting. The mee1talso marks the first Irish match-up against an Atlantic Coast Conference team in several years. 
Florida State is coming off a 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Friday 11/12 
The "Game of the Century" 
goes to the pool... 
Men's and Women's Swimming vs. Florida State 4:00pm 
Rolf's Aquatic Center 
Saturday 11 /13 Men's Tennis Alumni vs. Varsity 
6:00 pm Eck Pavilion 

Club 
23 ~~S:~k (f)
\J~(V 
loss against rival University of Florida, so they will be looking to redeem themselves. Accord­ing to Irish swim coach Tim Welsh, the Seminoles have a strong, fast team, and he is ex­pecting an exciting meet. 
"This is not a meet that can be decided on paper," stated Welsh. "We are anticipating an outstanding swimming meet in which all the races will be close." 
The women hope to continue their winning ways, and the men would like to rebound from their defeat at Bowling Green last weekend. Although a national championship is not 
l 
on the line, the meet is an im­portant one for both teams. 
"This is our biggest dual meet of the fall semester, but we're psyched up and gunning for them," said men's captain Kevin Flanagan. "It will proba­bly be toe-to-toe the whole meet, but we're just as fast as they are." 
"Florida State has some very fast swimmers, but I really think our depth is going to carry us," women's captain Kristin Heath added. 
Both teams feel confident that they will kick-off the weekend with the first win over Florida State. 


~g 
('5 o!o! Nov. 131h ~/
. 
NOTRE DAME vs. FLORIDA STATE 
Free Munchies! Clu BigScreen rv. 

23 

Friday, November 12, 1993 
Haley Scott to speak at tonight's pep rally 
Special to the Obsei'Ver 
It will be an emotional mo­ment tonight when junior swimmer Haley Scott speaks at the football pep rally at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
One of the most inspira­tional figures in Notre Dame athletic history. Scott was partially paralyzed less than two years ago in a bus acci­dent that took the lives to two of her teammates. 
Scott returned to the pool with a dramatic win in her heat of the 50-yard freestyle. 
With that stuggle behind her, Scott is now struggling with the notion of speaking in front of 12,000 Irish fans. 
"I have no idea what I'm going to say,'' she said. "''ve written some things down. but I always end up tearing it up." 
Scott's presence may mean more than her words Friday. 
The Department of Music Prese/lts 
A FACULTY CONCERT 

Wi[fiam Cerny1 pianist 
The Romantic Prelude 
PRELUDES OF CHOPIN & RACHMANINOFF 

Sunday, November 14, 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art The_ concert is free and open to the public 

MAR~lJOLD MAl~KET 
lET US PREPARE. YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC.~ YOU CAN ENJOy THE GAME! 
GRAPE. ~ClEVELAND 272·1922 
Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
LIVE!!! Notre Dame NCAA Soccer on Radio! 
SATURDAY:

Classifieds ­Fencers face new format at Chicago 
ND women vs. George Mason 

By JOE VILLINSKI 

Writer 
This weekend the Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams travel to the University of Chicago for their second and final fall meet before the season kicks into high gear in January. 
The Irish will be competing in a new format for the meet. This Chicago Invitational con­sists of cumulative point scor­ing that focuses more on the team than on the individual. 
Rather than awarding a point for an individual win, all points will be carried down to the next bout. The first com­petitor to score five points wins the bout. but the scoring car· ries over to the next weapon until a team has reached twen­ty-five points. 
"This format has been used in international competition before and may be adapted to college in thefuture," said coach Mike DeCicco. "It could have some nice spectator interests." 
The five types of bouts that will be used at the invitational include men 's and women's foil. men's and women's epee and sabre. In order to com­pete in the'Se different areas, the Irish will be taking four teams ranging form an A-D. 
Fighting on the men's foil team will be Jeremy Siek, Stan Brunner, Conor Power and Paul Capobianco respectively. 
The women's foil team will be comprised of Corinne Dougherty, Didi Garcia, Kim­berly Arndt, and Monica Wag­ner. Greg Wozniak, Rian Gi­rard, Jason Arnold and Bruce Dille comprise the men's epee team. 
Taking up its counterpart will be Maura Gallagher, Marit Fischer, Ashley Shannon, and Liz Caruso. Rounding out the weapons will be Bill Lester, Chris Hajnik, Bernard Baez, and Greg Bannon on the sabre. 
"The team had a chance to scrimmage this week in order to get ready for the new for­mat," said assistant Ed Baguer. 
Twenty-one teams will be fighting for the championship Saturday including Detroit, Wayne State, Chicago, North­western, and Michigan. The last three already having lost to the Irish once last week in the Notre Dame Fall Fencing Festival. 
Northwestern proved to be the men's toughest opponent as the Irish edged the Wildcats 14-13 with the foil and epee teams each winning their respective weapons 6-3. While the men had trouble with Northwestern, the women's foil team won 10-6 and dominated both Chicago, 16-0, and Michigan, 15-1. 
continued from page 18 
Victor Victor Victor Physics Physics Physics Rock On 
Belen Serrano You drive me crazy ... 
TO THE WOMEN'S SOCCER TEAM: It's been a good season and it's not over! Time to: play your best, play with a passion and a purpose. Time to: GET SOME, IRISH! 
·Pete 
FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA's CALL Moira x1275 
SMC·ND SUMMER PROGRAMS LONDON AND ROME. TRAVEL TOW. EUROPE. COURSES IN PHOTO, HIST, LIT,SOC, BIO. MEETING LIBRARY AUD. LOUNGE NOV. 17, 6:30PM. FORMER PARTICI­PANTS, PIZZA, TEACHERS. INFO CALL PROF. BLACK 284·4460(W) 272·3726 (H) 
(11:50am) SUNDAY: Women's regional championship 
· (12:50 pm) ND men vs. Wisconsin (3:30 pm) Catch the play-by ·play on 1 03.1 WHME-FM. GO IRISH!! 
To the thief who stole my ftball tix from my room Tues. night: I know who you are and I have a witness. Slide the tix under my door today, no questions asked, or I will call security. 
Darnell, Darnell you're such a big stud. If you fell on the floor you'd make a big thud. If smoothness could be taught you'd be teaching 101. Happy Birthday to you and have a lot of fun. 
Love, 
·sao 
Thanks for helping us raise over $1300 for La Casa de Amistad. 
Special congratulations to Monise Seward of B.P. for winning the FSU tickets. 
Watch for other upcoming events spon· sored by the Sophomore Class. •••••••••* * ••••***.******* * **********. 

, ... 

-
HARRY .'.S 
Restaurant & Bar 

(Formerly-Fisherman sWharfi On Eagle Lake Road just north of U.S. 12 Edwardsburg, MI. 
(616) 699-5113
I 
I 
Michiana's Newest Restaurant 
Steaks-Prime Rib-Chops-B-B-Q Ribs -Seafood -Pasta ­Salads -Lighter Fare-Daily Specials 

Reservations Suggested Open Tues-Sun at 5:00pm 
The National and Community Service Trust Act Of 1993 
Tim Roemer 
U.S. Congressman 3rd District, Indiana 

Congressman Roemer will discuss the recently signed legislation promoting national service and its implications for Notre Dame students, faculty, and alumni. All are welcome. 
Friday, November 12, 1993 4:00PM 
Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by: The Notre Dame Committee for National and Community Service The Center for Social Concerns 
1b learn more about reducing your risk, contact your local American Heart Association. 
American Heart 
Your Life Is In Your Hands. 
•
Association 

Great Gift Idea 
the Notre Dame Coloring Book 

Available at The Hammes Bookstore, Alumni Hospitality Room, the Varsity 
Shop, and the Morris Inn 
• 
BRUNO'S DELIVERS!! 
Weekend Special: 18in-2items $14.00 14 in-2items $10.00 For Carry Out/Delivery call 
-.... _
273-3890 

page 24 

-Volleyball's _east coast trip a warmup for postseason play 
• 
y­
-
ByTIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Sports Editor 
I loping to increase their chances at a 
home match in the second round in the 
NCAA tournament. the Notre Dame vol­
leyball team heads east this weekend to 
take on rivals LaSalle and Pittsburgh. 
Although they dropped to No. 18 in 
both the Volleyball Monthly and AVCA 
Top 25, the Irish still hold the No. 1 
ranking in the Mideast region, which 
gives them the inside track to hosting 
tournament games. 
The Irish have yet to lose to a regional 
team this season. 
"This week and next, when we play teams in the region, it's very important that we play well and hold on to that No. 1 spot," stated Irish head coach Debbie Brown. who has led the team to a 21-5 record this season. 
The Irish will experience some minor adjustments this weekend, as Brown will be unable to make the trip because she is expecting a baby in the coming weeks. Steve Schlick, who has been with Brown for six years, will take over the head coaching responsibilities. 
"The team is very prepared for the change," stated Brown. "The only nega­tive is that we will have one less body on the bench for stats and other things, but I have tremendous faith and confidence that Steve and Devin (assistant coach Devin Scruggs) will do a great job." 
The Irish will also be without the ser­vices of standout senior middle blocker Molly Stark, who injured her ankle in practice last week and is still day to day. 
Freshman Jen Briggs will likely start in 
her place, while classmate Laura 
Reckmeyer should also see her minutes 
increase at the middle blocker position. 
"We've had to make some adjustments 
because of Molly's absence," explained 
Brown. "Obviously we'd love to have 
her in the starting lineup, but we expect 
the freshmen to come in and play well." 
The entire Notre Dame squad can expect to see extended action as the Irish open their roadtrip Friday night at LaSalle. The Explorers enter the game with an 8-21 overall record and 0-4 MCC standing, which should allow the Irish to experiment with numerous combinations, gaining experience for players at different positions. 
The Explorers have yet to challenge in an MCC contest, losing each match 3-0. However, junior outside hitter is having a solid season for LaSalle, leading the team with 179 kills. 
The Irish will then have a day to rest before taking on the best of the Big East, traveling to Pittsburgh to take on the 19­8 Panthers. Pitt has won the Big East regular season title with an unblem­ished 7-0 conference mark, and look to challenge the Irish as a regional con­tender. 
Senior outside hitter Ann Marie Luciane is the best all-around player for the Panthers, hitting .331 with 437 kills while adding 326 digs. 
Notre Dame will use this weekend as a warmup for the following weekend's MCC tournament, where Notre Dame 

will be the top seed and looking to clinch Senior Dyan Boulac digs the ball in last Friday's win over Xavier 
an automatic NCAA tourna;;m:.:.;e;;.:.n:.:,t,:b;,;,;id;,;,. 
CORRECTION The Observer incorrectly reported Wednesday that Ruth Diemer was the medal winning cox-swain in a story about the Rowing Club. The actual winner was Mary Hyder. The Observer regrets the error.  
ERASMUS BOOKS • Used books bought and sold • 25 Categones of Books • 25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books 1n stock • Out-Of-Pnnt Search Serv1ce -$1 DO • Appra1sals large and small Open noon to aix Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444  
DIRECT FROM twin $139 full $154 FUTONS All prices include convertible frame and mat. LAFREE ENTERPRISES 259-6201  
Y. Marsha K's Crafts & Balloons {f) $100 off any ( Balloon Bouquet Great balloon bouquets for SYR/Formals North Village Mall 273..1570  



So, ':jOU spent a lot of $ on 
thig
18 weekend. There wag the 101 anlt.i' and ""t? ,!t' or )<.to deal with. We all~. CJthe ~it. But he':j, $doesn't grow on''· 

The Works Bar ana Grill 
some 

presents reservations 
r.F=~L=a=sa=g==n=a=$:;:::::::6=.s=o=r:la!' ava~~~~~e 
H \11 ,\ ~. H II l 

Call TODAY! 
501 NNiles Ave, 

L3.ye:'s :: I:a.lia.": s:-:1sag;,:-i:d::al pas:a ~"1~ sa·.::~ ... 
S,. ~~~"!':" ~·,_~. wo "1#'1\S• -""-"".~"""!.' Se..,-:ro,.: 'rf~.:.·,.. ~A.:. __, ...·:,.,
"-·---J ----• w"""'"'' -Vw~ VYo"-• -•"• :;--•W
w •"
South Bend 
237-9757 


r. 
Costa Rica  $255*  
Quito  $269*  
Casablanca  $375*  
Nairobi  $763*  
Bangkok  $495*  

•Airfares are eoch W"f from Chicoso based on a roundtrip purcM5e. Restrictions apply, toxes ore not included and fares are subject to Chllf19e. Call for other worldwide destiMtions. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor 
Chicago, 1160610 
31!-951-0585 
can for a FREE copy of Student Travels magazine 

FOUR FLAGS FARM 
!Bed and !Bu:ak(aj.t 
THE KERNERS REo BUD TRAIL NORTH PHONE BUCHANAN, Ml 49107 616-471-5711 
Thanks for a Wonderful Season! Think Graduation! 

Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • MEN'S SOCCER 
have tied three times. They last faced each other in 1990, where they played 

Tourney 
to a 0-0 deadlock in Madison. The key player in Sunday's contest for continued from page 28 

the Badgers will be forward Travis Roy, underdog, especially when we match up who has 31 points thus far. The sopho­so well." more is supported offensively by mid­
The only area that may give the fielder Mike Gentile and co-captain Badgers the edge is that they will be Jason Hoke, who have· contributed with playing at home. Since 1991, Wisconsin a combined nine goals on the season. 
has posted a 22-3-1 home record, Wisconsin will have to .contend with a including an 8-2 mark this year. stellar Irish defense. Juniors Bert Bader, Chris Dean, Dane Whitley, and 
"I don't think playing away is a major freshman Brian Engesser will hope to factor," continued Berticelli, who stop the Badger attack to give Notre received MCC Coach of the Year honors Dame its fifth consecutive shutout. earlier this year. "We've been suc­Offensively for the Irish, Lanza and cessful playing on the road." junior Tim Oates will try to jump on 
The Irish boast a 6-1 road record, Badger goalie Tim Deck early. A senior including conference victories over co-captain, Deck has posted 10.5 Xavier, LaSalle, and Detroit Mercy. shutouts this year. The Irish have not 
The two teams have squared ofT eight lost if they led at halftime. times in their careers. Wisconsin has Sunday's victor will face the winner of won four, Notre Dame one, and they the Indiana-Memphis State contest 
November 21. 
6fe's :J3islro & ~ 
Chinese • American 
5ta 1' Qr~~ 
Restaurant & 
~~ 
Cocktail Lounge 1\.uthentic Szechuan,

()~Q; Fine dining at moderate prices Qo 
~ndarin & HWlan Cuisille 
Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Theatre Works Playhouse -upstairs Lunches starting at .•.•.$4.25 Dinners starting at .....$5.95 Voted Be"t·
at the Bistro 
Ori~ntal Restaurant
Banquet rooms available for uv to 200 in l\1ichiana by

Ask about catering 257-0400 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Micliiww Noll',:
(next to RanOall's Inn ) i. 
ONE. VOICE 
The Collegiate Choirs of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
Sdection inc{utfes: 
!featuring: 
'Danny 'Boy g{otre 'Dame (j{ee C{u6 Jive '.Maria Shenanigans Let tlie 'l(iver 'l(un Saint '.Mary's 'Women's C!ioir :He Is 'Wortliy C!iora{e 
'iJian't '.My Lora 'Defiver 'iJanie{ 'I/o ices of :Faitli (jospe{ Clioir 'l(ing oj Love :fa{!(_ Clioir '.Mary Speaf(s Liturgica{ Clioir 
'Tfie 'Be({s of Saint '.Mary's g{o tre 'Dame 'Women's Clioir 9{otre 'Dame, Our '.Motlier S'.MC!9{1J Co[{egiate C!ioir 'J{otre 'iJame '1/ictory '.Marcli ana more . .. 
Available at: 
Lafortune Info Desk ND Bookstore SMC Bookstore Morris Inn Campus Ministry 
•All proceeds directly benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
•PREMIERING
... a collection of the nine collegiate choirs from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

• 
$6 of each item is tax deductible. 


You are cordially invited to attend a 
PRESENTATION 
on FIXED INCOME SALES & TRADING on Wednesday, November 17, 1993 7:00pm Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
All undergraduates are invited to join Lehman Brothers professionals 
LEHMAN BROTHERS 


Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni 
Association and Athletic Deportment 
All alumni, parents and 
•admission 
and round trip transfers to pep rally 

•team 
parents' reception 

• 
bowl souvenirs 

•round 
trip transfers to game 

•daily 
Masses at the hotel 

• 
Alumni Staff escorts & tour 


3days/4 nights rates for single, double, triple and quad occupancy (airfare not included) RATES WILL BE DICfA TED BY 
LOCATION. PACKAGE PRICES AND 
HOTEL RATES WILL BE ADVERTISED 
AS SOON AS NOTRE DAME 
ACCEPTS A BOWL BID. 
Call t..soo..ND GAMEl or 
Discount airfares from all cities available through ANTHONY TRAVEL, official travel service of Notre Dame. Even if you don't purchase the tour package, you're wel­come to join your Notre Dame friends at the Notre Dame alumni headquarters hotel (to be determined.) 

1..soo.. 7 DOMERS 
The Official University of Notre Dame Bowl Tour 


-
......... 
• 
-....... 
j 
4 

--~ 1 
• ~ 
j 
•
•~ 
~ 

---------------------------------~------------------------------------­
page 26 The Observer • HOCKEY Friday, November 12, 1993 
-Improved defense building confidence for Irish hockey 
By TIM SHERMAN Dame allowed just one goal. Sports Writer Along with Osiecki, sophomores Matt 

..
Bieek, Jeremy Coe, and Garry Gruber 
Confidence. That is one thing that the have provided solid blue-line play. Notre Dame hoekey team has been has The goaltending has also been strong. been lacking in recent years. Wade Salzman, and especially, Greg 
The Irish play two key conference Louder, each played well over the week­games this weekend. On Friday night, end. Louder, who is 2-1-1 in net, they travel to Columbus to skate against stopped all but one of the shots he faced Ohio State. The next night, the Irish on Saturday. When the Irish defense did face off against Miami of Ohio. break down, Louder came up big, as he 
But there is something different about stopped a couple of breakaways. this weekend's games. Notre Dame is The offense is the area of concern for confident it will win. coach Ric Sehafer. Notre Dame has 
scored only 11 goals in their first five 
Senior captain Matt Osiecki, on the games, only one a power-play goal. overall at·.itude of the team, "We're real positive right now going into these They have created plenty of opportu­games. The team is expecting to play nities and, in time, goals will definitely well. We definitely expect to win one or come. Because of the reliability of the 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
two (games) this weekend." defense, Notre Dame does not have to 

Senior captain Matt Osiecki believes the Irish hockey team is on the road to success.
Why the new-found confidence? The change their game-plan in order to gen­main reason is the recent play of the erate quick goals to be competitive. 

series. Ohio State is tied for fifth with Buckeyes with seven points.
Irish defense. This past weekend the Still, the team needs to get on track the Irish with a 1-2-1 conference reeord. 

Irish played two games with Michigan offensively the take some of the pressure Goalie Tom Askey is the key for the After taekling Ohio State on FridayState, traditionally one of the nation's of the defense. The Irish are ready to do Buckeyes. He owns the seeond best night, the team will then face the Miamitop teams. Although the Irish could only just that. "We have picked it up offen­save pereentage in the CCHA. (Ohio), who took all three games frommanage a tie, the defense was superb. sively. Now, we just need to score with the Irish last season. While both teamsThe Spartans could only manage four our chances." 

On the other end of the ice, the Irish will pose a challenge for the Irish, Notregoals in the two games. Three of the Friday night's game with the must be wary of sophomore winger Joe Dame is definit~ly eapable of taking both goals came while the Irish were short­Buckeyes should provide such a chance. 
Sellars, who was this past week's CCHA games. Osieeki feels, "We're ready tohanded. Skating five on five, Notre The Irish swept last year's three-game player of the week. He leads the step it up now and win some games." 
~1 

~ 1993 The Olive Garden Restaurants. 
! 
I 
I~ 
Main & Jeffmon 

HERE'S ACOURSE
Hours 
Mon-Sat 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Sun 4 • 9 p.m. 
257 ... 1100 

THAT COMBINES 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones• Hot and Cold Subs•St:romboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 

ITALIAN AND 
For Fast Delivery Call273 ... 2EAT 
$ 2 offlarge pizza with Student ID 

ECONOMICS. 
~ANK THE 
LORDIIJWITH ALL YOUR HEART 
YOU ARE INVITED ..... . 
'I:J-f.f2l2{1(S yIo/Ig{(j 
.:>t......,.

• ~,..,.)t.¥R._.Jl'Y£,'R._ S'E'R._o/ICE 
.-' 
.............. 
//' / 
TUESDAY, NOVE1VIBER 16, 1993 
7:00 pm BADIN HALL CHAPEL 
Prayr:r an.tf Praise to tfie Lora 
tfiraugh. 

Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's
'13!'13L'E 'J?P"Wl'J{g 

student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­
2('E~L'ECTIO'J{S 

can-eat spaghetti with your choice of marinara, tomato or meat sauce.
Music 

Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and _,., warm gmlic breadsticks. It's all -,~~~ 
just $5.95. And you don't have 

0'!.WJ
'])irec tetf 5y 

to be a math major to figure ~ • 
out that that's a great deal. . 11ALIAN f<l '-,It\! II<-\ \II 
REV. AL D'ALONZO, esc 
~or adtfitiona£ information pfease ca[[ CJVy{!PUS MI'l{.fSTJ?!Y 631·5242 

WHERE ALLTHE REsl· OF I'll\I Y Is){)t 'RS.' 
•Opposite University Pork Moll, 277-6503. 





Friday, November 12, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-



ACROSS 27 Support 50 Cards 29XXVI X II 
remaining after 1 Anagram, e.g. 

a deal 30 Fences

10"The-," 51 Elsewhere: Lat. 
ul'iaat~lat.e ~tt.Jaents Social Hour will be at Wilson32 Swedish river 1973film 52 Chinese secret 
15 Handy 33 Actress Young society r~o·miJnor•s> every Fridayfrom 5 ui7 p.m. to relax,
34 Chains

16 Kind of 55 "-to serve witll friends, play PO()l, or play discussion 36 Having a ...":Swinburne 
. ·i}nd soft drinks are available. ·.
bag like 56 Traveling17 Aloysius, in structure vendors, for 

"Brides head for t~e Homeles~ ~'pri~~ lnt~rnshlp
38 Rms. short 1
Revisited" 

39 Bud 58 Position ' . a;~ available li the ,:CSC ahd the 
18 Expenditure 41 Uses a plane 59 Launderer's 
the Homeless for Interested·undergradu:.
19 Real thing, 42 Ward heeler appliance
metaphysically stUdents•.. Ftdgram appijcations. 
60 Avon nobles 20 Chili con--element 61 Xanthippe was aPJ>Uc.auc,n· deadline is November 30. For 21 Cream-filled one 43 Nonmetallic 
45 "... sell our tnlonnat.Jon contact Drew Busscareno at 282.. 
cookies 

birth rite for-22"Tellit--of potash?": 
DOWN

Gath" Ward 23 Bar slugs 46 Papas and 1 Dilatory Student Art Forum is hosting a Foreign Film 24 Fix a computer Castle 2 Chamber for 


. a.ttriing "Camille Claudel" (with English 
7 p~m. tonightin the Snite museum's conference 
meteor 

Fr.l~d··:~v 9-n:·,d< s··:9turd.,··~,,.
......Q.~· "'· ..·. . . ~·" .... 
···"··-~~· 

CONCERT!!!! 
~~=;::==;----~~ 

"-,. No, No, ArM Foil. 
I '-r>oe. TAASI\c.AN. I 1 • No No-r rn'1 ~'E."' 
I ~ '"" TPM>I\c.AN· .. ~--­
CROSSWORD 
BILL WAITERSON 
WI-lt.~ ~0\l C\-IP..t{G£ 
n\E Cl-\t>.~~EL, I 
l'loN'r 11-1\N '( TW~. 
ORIGINAL PROGRAM 
• S\-\0\lLO BE ABlE 
~ TO CI-IA~GE rr 
BP..C\(. 


Backing out of the driveway, Mr. Peabody suddenly brought his car to a stop. He had already heard a peculiar "thump," and now these flattened but familiar-looking glasses further intrigued him. 
No I Nor-r'T 
~ou.ji..E. 
HELP ~ou {JJtT~ 
T~e. ffiAN. 
'1ouol!: FL~. 
'BuT... tlur... 
Sleepless In Seattle 
Starring Meg Ryan andTom Hanks 
Cushing Auditorium 8 & 10:30PM 
Admission $2 

Big Head Todd 
Monday  November 15  
8PM  Stepan  
STUDENTS $10 GENERAL $15  ~  

AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK ~ 
...,_._,_ 

... 

SPORTS 

page 28 Friday, November 12, 1993 
. , Irish, Badgers a perfect match 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek Freshman T{>ny Capasso (5) and the rest of the Irish men's soccer team face Wisconsin in the first-round of the NCAA tournament. 

Anxious Irish await first NCAA appearance 
Third-ranked Poised McCarthy women confident paces womens' yet cautious potent attack 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sporrs Editor 

Assistant Sports Editor 
• Their dreams of one day be­Michelle McCarthy never ing invited to "the dance" have panics. been realized, and the oppor­She has competed against the tunity to validate their mem­best of the best and she has 
bership among the nation's been relied on to save the day elite has finally arrived. for the Irish on more than one When Notre Dame's women's occasion, yet she never. ever. 
panics.

soccer players line up against George Mason tomorrow in the Regardless of who she is 
first round of the NCAA tourna­attacking or the significance of ment, they will be navigating the game in which she is play­
uncharted waters. ing, when McCarthy gets the ball on her feet she simply
It will be the first time the takes it to her defender withIrish have ever competed in 

post-season play, and they poise, determination, and an unparalleled sense of confi­
aren't planning on departing any time soon. dence. 
A two year starter for Notre "Obviously, we're pretty ex­Dame's women's soccer team. 
McCarthy has proven this sea-
cited," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli, "and I . son that she is prepared to 
carry the Irish through a
think we're pretty confident." 

schedule packed with the
"It's something that's been a goal ever since freshman year," nation's elite. 
Three of her 12 goals thissaid Irish senior tri-captain
-
season have been game-win­
Stephanie Porter. "It's a great ners and one came only 15 sec­feeling to finally have it hap­

onds into a game-a Notre
pen." Notre Dame. ranked third in 

Dame record. She best demonstrated herthe nation and seeded first in dedication and determinationits regional with a 19-2 record, 
in the Irish's 3-2 defeat of
opens the tournament against eighth-ranked rival Duke at thefourth-seeded George Mason. 

Women's College Classic in
-
The victor faces off with the Houston.
winner of the match-up 

MeCarthy tore the Blue Devilbetween sixth-ranked William defenders apart by setting up
& Mary and eighth-ranked 

several scoring opportunitiesWisconsin-Madison. The Irish while assisting on the first goaldefeated both the Tribe and the and winning the match forBadgers in the regular season. 
Notre Dame in the waning min­
"We think we're the best 

utes. Although the Irish domi­team of the four here," Petru­
nated throughout the game,
celli said. "But we're playing Duke had tied it up with two

good teams, so I don't fear 

goals in a 15 minute span inoverconfidence at all." 
the second half. McCarthy
"I think we're going to play clinched the game for the Irishwell," said Irish tri-captain Ali­with time running out by mak­son Lester, "and if we play well 

we're going to win." ing a fool of her defender and The Patriots are 16-2-1 and The Observer/Jake Peters sneaking it around the Blue ranked 10th in the nation. Like Michelle McCarthy (12) leads the Notre Dame women's soccer team into its first-ever NCAA tournament Devil goalie on an outstanding 
By MIKE NORBUT Spons Writer 
The second season has begun for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
After months of training, a grueling ten week season, and its second Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tournament title, the Irish will com­pete in their second NCAA tournament when they play a first round game Sunday afternoon at the University of Wisconsin. 
"The juniors have been waiting three years and the seniors four to get to this game," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli, who will be making his first trip to the NCAA tourney since his coach­ing days at Old Dominion in 1989. 
Notre Dame, sporting a 15-5 record and a No. 20 national ranking, received a bid Monday afternoon after capturing the MCC title last weekend. The Irish downed Detroit Mercy in the final 2-0 behind goals by sophomo~ Bill Lanza and freshman Chris Mathis. 
The 13th ranked Badgers, a team with a 13-3­
appearance. 
see NCAA I page 21 

Hockey Captain Matt Osiecki believes the Irish are-headed in the right direction. 
see page 26 

Inside SPORTS 

Volleyball Without coach Debbie Brown, who is expecting a baby within weeks, the Irish head east. 
see page 24 

see MCCARTHY I page 21 
Swimming Florida State also pre­sents a challenge for Kristin Heath the Irish swim teams. 

4 record this year, received an at-large bid to the tournament after they fell to Penn State 1-0 in the semifinals of the Big Ten Championships. 
When mulling over the tournament pairings, the NCAA officials could not have picked two more evenly-matched teams to face each other in the first round. 
Against common opponents, the Irish hold a 3­2 record, while Wisconsin is 4-2-1. Both teams defeatnd Ohio State, Evansville, but neither could handle Indiana or Penn State. The Nittany Lions, who squeaked by the Irish 1-0 earlier this year, tied the Badgers in the regular season before beating them in the postseason. 
Statistically, the two teams appear equal. Wisconsin has scored 44 goals while allowing only 17 on the year. Notre Dame has scored 48 times, and has allowed opponents to score on only 18 occasions. 
"I think we're the underdog," said Berticelli. "I always prefer to go into a game like this as the 
see TOURNEY I page 25 







