The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 82 
SMC elections are today 
By CHRISTINA CANNON 
News Writer 
Elections for the Saint Mary's College student body president 
SMC 
ELECTIONS 1993 

and vice president for the 1993-94 academic year are being held today. 
Students who live on-campus can vote in the dining hall during regular meal times, and off-campus students can vote from 1 to 3 p.m. in the off­campus lounge. 
Running for the positions are Mary Beth Wilkinson with Lynn O'Donnell and Melissa Whelan with Melissa Peters. 
Wilkinson and O'Donnell are running on a platform that includes proposals for a comprehensive recycling program. 24 hour access to computer lab laser printers, continued development of Dalloway's coffee house. and installing new Stairmasters in the Angela Athletic Facility, said Wilkinson and O'Donnell. 
They also hope to establish an easier CO-EX system for meals between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and increased student-alumnae connections through lectures and interviews, they said. 
The Whelan and Peters ticket hopes to improve relations with Holy Cross College through the 
see SMC I page 4 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1993 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 


A flashback in time 
Zahm Hall junior Mike Cash and Lewis Hall sophomore Gillian Comley modeled their polyester and wide-collared shirts on Saturday night as residents and guests brought the 70s back to Notre Dame at the Zahm Decade Dance. 

Fifth annual Iceberg Debates begin 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
The preliminary rounds of fifth annual Iceberg Debates will begin tonight focusing on the issue of gays in the military and feature teams from thirteen dorms, according to chairperson Amy Listerman. 
Founded during the 1988-89 academic year, the Iceberg De­bates give undergraduates the opportunity to debate current local, national and international issues, said Listerman. a senior from Siegfried Hall who has competed in the debates since her freshman year. 
The competition enables stu­dents to increase their aware­ness of the issues as they im­prove their public speaking skills. said Listerman. At the same time, it encourages intel­lectual life in the dorms, she added. 
The topics for all rounds have been determined by members of student government and an­nounced in advance so partici­pants will have as much time as they need to prepare for their debates, said Listerman. 
Future rounds will discuss whether Notre Dame should recognize pro-choice student groups, if health-care profes­sionals should be prohibited from assisting terminally ill pa­tients in self-administered sui­cide, whether Notre Dame is losing its Catholic character, and if the United States Congress should ratify the North American Free Trade Agreement, she said. 
The debates will be judged by faculty members and law stu­dents. According to the rules and regulations of the Iceberg Debates, the winning team will be the one that "best presents well-structured, value-based ar­guments... concerning the reso­lution." Evidence and persua­siveness will be the most impor­tant factors in this decision, 
see DEBATES I page 4 



Campaigns begin for ND elections 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Campaigning for the Feb. 8th Notre Dame student body presi­dent and vice presidential elec­tions officially begins today. 

Candidates  are,  in  
alphabetical order:  
• Frank  Flynn  and  Nikki  
Wellmann;  

• 
Stephanie Gallo and Christo­pher Browning; 

• 
Joseph Karian and Samuel Thomas; 

•Tom 
Kovats and Michael Connelly (running as co-presi­dents); 

•Christopher 
Murphy and Emily Bloss; and 

•David 
Reinke and Lara Dickey 


Flynn, Stanford Hall president and student government special projects commissioner, and Wellmann, president of Badin Hall, plan to lobby for summer storage on campus; "The Guide,"a comprehensive listing of courses and teachers includ­ing results from teachers' evaluations and the syllabus for each course; "The Job Bank," filed information concerning employment opportunities 

. through alumni; and "The Book Fair," an organized service to help students buy and sell 
N
... 
···.-n······.-.._.._---_.. -.-.. __..._
.. ·· . 
.... ·: . . .
~. 

i:L~e}'IoNs.··.·t·993•·· 
books more efficiently. 
"These are four things we know we can do," said Well­mann. 
Future goals for Flynn and Wellmann are to improve un­dergraduate education, increase the availability of financial aid, and develop the social life on campus, said Wellmann. 
"We feel confidant that we are the strongest team with the necessary experience and original ideas, which are fully attainable," said Flynn. 
Gallo, Lyons Hall co­president and Hall Presidents' Council representative on the Student Senate, and Browning, Sorin Hall co-president, propose improving the internship programs with Notre Dame alumni, increasing the student club budget by 20% through "tight monetary and policy controls," keeping text book costs down, and maintain­ing the security presence on 
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

Panel: Women's movement should change structures 

By ANNIE VENESKY 
News Writer 
The women's movement must focus not only on surviving a male-dominated system, but also on reorganizing existing power structures, concluded panelists in a discussion during Saturday's third annual Day of Women at the Snite Museum. 
In the discussion, "How the 
Women's  Movement  has  
affected  me  in  1992,"  
panelists  talked  about  the  

current women's movement and their own experiences and ideas concerning the direction of the movement. Comparing the current movement to the earlier women's rights movement of the 1960's, many panelists agreed that women must not work simply to survive within a male-dominated society as they may have done in the past. 
"Women must no longer work for 'equal pay for equal work,' 
but must try and change the way the hierarchy is structured," said Mary Yu, a third year law student and resident assistant at Notre Dame. 
Karsonya Wise, an M.A. student in the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, also spoke on the increasing diversity of the women's movement in comparison to the 1960's. 
"Race and class issues have now been brought into play in the women's movement. The original movement dealt primarily with the needs of upper middle class Caucasian women, whereas now, the needs of African-American women are being taken into consideration," she said. 
"The many issues faced by to­day's women have resulted in a diversity of feminist communi­ties, not only a black feminist 
see WOMEN I page 4 

Nation's governers meet to consider universal health care plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's governors, saying uni­versal health care is a "moral imperative," began formal con­sideration Sunday for their pro­posal to extend coverage to all Americans. 
The proposal adopted by a committee of the National Gov­ernors Association calls for guaranteed access to health care for every citizen and minimum federal standards to reduce medical liability costs. 
Under its "managed competi­tive" approach, the government would maintain a national database through which con­sumers could receive informa­tion about the cost and quality of health care services. 
In addition, the governme.nt 
·would expand its support for primary and preventive health care programs, including peri­odic health screenings, prenatal care, well-baby care and child­hood immunizations. 
"Everybody's looking for a broad-based basic framework," said South Carolina Gov. Carroll Campbell, a Republican and member of the committee that designed the plan. 
The full association will vote Tuesday on the plan, which will be presented to Congress and President Clinton, who only re­cently left the organization's ranks. The governors will meet Monday with Clinton to discuss health care and other issues. 
Democratic Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana said governors were motivated by fears that the economy and federal budget deficit will not improve "unless we deal with health care." 
Texas Gov. Ann Richards, a Democrat, abandoned an at­tempt to exclude the so-called "tort reform" language address­ing medical liability costs. The final draft of the plan proposes that Congress set nationwide limits on malpractice liability and allow states to adopt even tighter restrictions. 

Gov. Lawton Chiles, a Florida Democrat, warned that the fed­eral government "ain't gonna want this ball" and Congress would prefer that the states deal with the issue. 
Cost containment is a major focus of the proposal, which says that costs cannot be controlled "unless and until every legal resident has health insurance 
It goes on to say that "universal health care is both a moral imperative and an invaluable cost containment tool." 
The proposal also recom­mends: 
• 
a national health care board that includes state and local representatives. 

• 
federal minimum standards for the regulation of health in­surance developed in consulta­tion with the states. 


... " .. ~ 
page 2 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



uper Bowl 
brings more than ratings 
You still can remember yesterday clearly: beer, lots of food, football. . .the Superbowl party to end all Superbowl parties. You think that life can not possibly get 


much better than this. 

Many women across Jennifer Habrych 
the country remember Assistant News Editor 
yesterday's events also, 

but their recollections -------­
are much different. Today they are stiff and 
soar and bruised. They wish they had not 
stepped in front of the television during a 
erucial play, or their partner had not lost the 
football pool, or their partner's team had not 
won. For many women, football has become the 
most terrifying game in their lives. 
What I'm speaking of is women being battered. Experts, aneedotal evidence, and some preliminary studies all indicate that more women are beaten during and after football games than at any other time-particularly on Superbowl Sunday. 
One study found that incidents of domestic violence increase upwards of 40 percent on Superbowl Sunday and the Monday following. 
The Surgeon General has also indicated that violence is the leading eause of injury to women ages 15 to 44-more common than car accidents and cancer deaths combined. Statistics from the Senate Judiciary Committee indicate that one in five of each reported act o violence occurs in the home. 
Experts say that the phenomena occurs when violence, particularly in sports, is rewarded. Batterers infer this violence is an acceptable behavior outside of the sports arena. 
Ad executives at NBC received much criticism from women's' groups for their initial choice to not air Public Service Announcements that dealt with domestic violence during yesterday's Superbowl game. 
The network finally cracked and allowed one 30 second PSA to run at 4 p.m. during Sunday's pre-game show. 
The spot which showed a man talking from a ·ail cell ends with the line "I didn't know you could go to jail for hitting your wife," along with a toll free number to report abuse or get help. 
The PSA cost the network a loss of nearly $850,000 in revenue, the exact reason the network was so reluctant to run the ad in the first place. 
It should be noted though that despite its efforts, NBCs ad was ill-placed in a spot before the game rather than during or after the game when such violence usually occurs. 
It's time to applaud NBC for at least doing something, no matter how meager, to try to combat a real problem that involves over a million reports of abuse every year. 
PSAs are often criticized for their ineffec­tiveness due to the late night times they are aired and the lack of repetition of the ads. NBC has made the first of many attempts that need to be made to inform sports viewers that the violence on the field should never translate into violence in the home. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

Production: Lab Tech: 
Melissa Cusack Pat McHugh 
Cynthia Ehrhardt 

Systems: 
News: Chris Sloan 
Becky Barnes 

Kenya Johnson Accent: 
Honora Buckley 
Sports: Jahnelle Harrigan ~George 
Dohrmann Viewpoint: Honora Buckley 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 


OF INTEREST 

• 
Logan Center for Volunteers will have an orga­nizational meeting tonight at 6 p.m. at the C.S.C. All are welcome. 

• 
The Freshman Year of Studies Convocation will be held tonight at 8 p.m. in the Stepan Center. 

• 
Those who did not pick up a 91-92 yearbook 


may do so by bringing a student I.D. to the Dome office at 311 LaFortune on any afternoon. 
• Applications for 1994 JPW Chairperson are now available at the LaFortune Information desk. Deadline is Friday in the Student Activities office on the 3rd floor of LaFortune. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 29 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 299,073,450 +.22 to 241.92 S&P COMPOSITE +.12 to 438.78 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +3. 78 to 3,310.03

UNCHANGED 576 

GOLD unavailable 
SILVER unavailable 
Monday, February 1, 1993 

child died last week but her death has not been linked to Jack in the Box hamburgers. 
President Bush misrepresented his · ' role in the arms-for-hostage deals with Iran while he was vice president, former Secretary of State George Shultz says in memoir excerpts published Sun­day. In the excerpts, which appear in this week's Time magazine, Shultz says he was "astonished" to read a 1987 interview in The Washington Post in which Bush said no one strongly opposed the arms deals during 1985 and 1986 White House meetings. Shultz remembers those meetings differently. He said that on Nov. 9, 1986, he had a heated talk with Bush. "I reminded him that he had been present at a meeting where arms for Iran and hostage releases had been proposed and that he had made no objection, despite the objection of both (former Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger) and me.... There was considerable tension between us when we parted." 
• Interviews for political organizers for PIRGs 
(Public Interest Research Groups), a nation-wide envi­ronmental and consumer organization, will be Tuesday. There will be a presentation from 3 to 5 p.m. in the esc and an information session at 6 p.m. in Hayes-Healy, room 223. 
• Van driver training seminars will be offered for all those who have not previously attended the course and are planning to request use of CSC's vans. The course will be Monday and Thursday at 5 p.m. in room 124 of the CSC. This seminar is mandatory for all students planning to drive a esc van. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1790: The U.S. Supreme Court convened for the first time, in New York. 

• 
In 1893: Inventor Thomas Edison completed work on the world's first motion picture studio. 

• 
In 1960: Four black college students began a sit-in protest 

at a lunch counter in Greensboro, N.C., where they had been refused service. 

• 
In 1968: During the Vietnam War, Saigon's police chief, Nguyen Ngoc Loan, executed a VietCong officer with a pistol shot to the head in a scene captured in a now-famous news photograph. 

• 
In 1988: Attorney General Edwin Meese Ill said he didn't recall a portion of a memo on a proposed Iraqi pipeline that referred to a plan to bribe Israeli officials. 


~ ' 
Monday, February 1 , 1993 The Observer page 3 



Issues of gay ban to be studied 
must be equality across the board so soldiers heterosexual and homosexual -are treated with the proper dignity they deserve." 
Clinton's decision has created widespread uncertainty among troops in the field, the aide said. 
"So I'm told to live with Ho­moseJ~.ual Joe. Do I have any rights now?" the aide asked rhetorically. "These are the questions the 23-and 24-year­old commanders in the field have to grapple with now. But what if a homosexual says he's threatened in his unit? New standards must be drawn up so commanders know how to re­act." 
On NBC's "Meet the Press" Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said Sunday that consideration of proposals to segregate gays to separate living quarters or keep them-out of combat units "just exacerbates the problem and it says there is a problem."
"Gay men and straight men have been sharing dormitory, showers, health clubs for a very long time .... we don't have our­selves dry cleaned," Rep. Bar­ney Frank, D-Mass., said Sunday an interview on CBS's "Face 
Ill 
:z: 
1­



HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1993-94 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE 0FF1CE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIFS APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 19, 1993 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Defense Secretary Les Aspin must an­swer some of the most complex issues involving privacy and the sexual conduct of troops before President Clinton can issue an executive order allowing homo­sexuals in the military, officials say. 
The questions he is studying include the possible segregation of homosexuals from heterosex­uals, whether in military units or in living quarters, as is now the situation for female troops in many cases. 
However, the problem is heightened by the fact that both proponents and opponents of changing the ban agree that homosexuals are now serving in the military and have not been separated for special treatment -except for being kicked out. 
Studying such questions doesn't necessarily mean they might be implemented but they present a plethora of problems that Aspin, military leaders and Congress must wrestle with in the coming months. 
"We will not rule anything in particular in or out this early during the review process," Aspin spokesman Vernon Guidry said Sunday. 
One senior military officer with ties to the Joint Chiefs of Staff said that their chairman, Gen. Colin Powell, has formu­lated his objections to lifting the ban on the issue of privacy. "That has been an overwhelm­ing issue for him," said the offi­cer, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
One of the four-star chiefs has sent a message to his senior commanders noting that the president's latest statement didn't answer many questions for the troops in the fields, ac­cording to an aide. 
"The rules (about privacy and conduct) must be very specific," the aide said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "If the policy is to be changed, there 
Club Column 
FEBRUARY 1, 1993 
1) All clubs, budgeting and registration packets will be available February 12 and are due March 3. Look for letters to club presidents in the mail next week which explains everything you need you need to know. Questions call Jennifer Blanchet at 634-4975. Remember to check your mailboxes. Social service groups now have mailboxes out­side the CCC Office (206 LaFortune). 
2) Last day to access all club funds is April 15, plan accordingly See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 
3) Pi Sigma Alpha is initiating a discussion group with Government students and the residents of Milton Home Retirement Community. The first meting will take place on Wed. , Feb. 3, at 6:30 p.m. The Group, which will meet twice a month, will discuss current and histori­cal events. If you are interested, please contact Kelley Gartland at 634-4987 
4) Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will hold a short gener­al membership meeting on Tues., Feb. 2, at 7 p.m. in LaFortune's Notre Dame Room. Senior ballots will be distributed. 
5) MUN meeting at 7 p.m. Monday, Feb. 1, in 124 Hayes-Healy. Anyone welcome. 
6) Psychology Club meeting and new officer elections tonight at 7 
p.m. in 119 Haggar Hall. 
7) The Notre Dame Accounting Association presents BOO Seidman, Tues., Feb. 2, at 7 p.m. in room 222 Hayes-Healy. Presentation topic: "Working outside the Big Six with BOO Seidman." All accounting majors welcome. 
8) Physical Therapy Club social! Come join us for a casual discus­sion on Wed., Feb. 3, at 7 p.m. in 180 Nieuwland to discuss future plans of the club--snacks and drinks provided. If interested in execu­tive position for next year, please call Michelle at 634-3477 or Kath Anne at 634-4011. We need your ideas and enthusiasm. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
SOPHOMORE SIBLING WEEKEND SIGN-UP 
Today and tomorrow (Feb. 1 & 2) In the Sophomore Class Office from 1 : 15 -4:00 p.m. 
Secure a place for your 10 16 year-old brother or sister with a n1ere $25 deposit Sopho111ore Sibs Weekend is March 26 -28 Questions? Call the Sophomore Class Office 
631-5225 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE Our good rates may save you money We now offer a Good Student Discount Call fer a quote 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
289-1993 Office nex110 Campus 


•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lnternat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travel Magazine! 
.. 

--~---------·---­
page 4 The Observer Monday, February 1, 1993 
changes in the future." for their dorm, and the second­Listerman said that interest in Feb. 9 before the top eight "For students involved," she place team will receive $250. the Iceberg Debates has re­teams advance to the

Debates 

added, " the best part about the All participants will receive mained consistent with interest quarterfinal round on Feb. 15. debates is that they get the ex­Iceberg Debates t-shirts. in past years. The semifinal round will be
continued from page 1 

perience of organizing their ar­held on Feb. 17, and the finalssaid Listcrman. 
guments and presenting them All dorms are invited to Defending champion Alumni will be held on Feb. 23.
The debates enable students 
in debate format." participate in the debates, as Hall has entered two teams in 
to start thinking seriously about Best speaker awards will be are off-campus students. the competition, while thirteen Tonight's debates will be heldcurrent issues, especially the given to one team member in Teams consist of four debaters, other dorms will be represented at Pangborn, Siegfried, Saint
Catholic character issue, said 
each of the preliminary rounds. and two alternates are allowed. by one team each. All teams Edward's, Badin, Alumni,Listerman. "They can give their The winning team will receive With fourteen teams will debate in three preliminary Dillon, and Fisher beginning at
input and hopefully spark 
the travelling trophy and $500 participating this year, rounds on Feb. 1, Feb. 2, and 9 p.m. 

Women 
continued from page 1 

community, a Marxist feminist community, a Socialist feminist community, and a liberal femi­nist community among many others," Wise added. 
The panelists also shared their own experiences as part of the current women's movement. Erin Hardin, a psychology and religious studies major at Saint Mary's College, spoke on gender bias in the classroom. 
"Teachers unconsciously give more attention to boys in the classroom, as if what boys had to say is more important than what girls have to say, she said. "As a result, girls lose self­esteem, assertiveness, and confidence. 
"As a student at Saint Mary's, this problem is undone. I know I am taken seriously and will continue to demand that I am taken seriously in society". 
Erin Duffey, a gender studies concentrate at Notre Dame, said that attending Notre Dame, which she feels is a conservative and male­dominated institution, has challenged her. "Here I have the opportunity to be a part of fledgling women's movements, to be an educator, and to dispel some of the ignorance that exists here," she said. 
In looking to the future of the women's movement, the panelists expressed optimism but cautioned that while much has been done to advance the position of women in society, much more work and energy will be required to effect signifi­cant change, especially within local communities. 
"We must take what we've learned in the academic and political arenas, take it into the community and muster the wherewithal to conquer the in­ternalized repression felt by women," said Suzanne Marilley, assistant professor of govern­ment at Notre Dame. 
"Women must educate them­selves to use the power of their sexuality as a means of developing self-respect," she added. 
"The gap between ideology and putting our ideas into prac­tice must be closed," concluded Duffey. 
The panel discussion was jointly sponsored by the Gender Studies Program, The Snite Mu­seum of Art, and the Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine Arts. 

I 
I 
I 
I 
i 
l 
'' 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
campus, said Gallo. 

"We have a goal of putting Notre Dame to work. We will achieve that goal by applying our experience with Student Government with enthusiasm and open-mindedness about tackling the tough problems which we as students face," said Gallo. They have "comprehensive program that addresses a variety of issues," she added. 
The platform of Dillon Hall residents Karian and Thomas includes reforming DART (Direct Access Registration by Telephone} and allowing 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

new linkage program and hold open forums for students to express their views about events on campus, they said. 
Also included in their platform is the intention to expand the role of the Big Sister/Little Sister program in the aeademic departments and promote activities for the women of Saint Mary's College to explore who they are and what is their relationship to the world around them, said Whelan. 
students to share their opinions of professors. They represent "the common student's viewpoint," said Thomas. 
"We have had the typical experiences of Notre Dame students. We have fresh ideas and perspectives. We are very happy here, but we see minor shortcomings," added Karian. 
Dillon Hall residents Kovats and Connelly are campaigning as "two students who want to do what the students want to do," said Kovats. Among their objectives are co-ed dorms, better parking for South Quad residents, and maintenance of the recycling program. "If we really want to get something done, we won't be afraid to do it," said Kovats. 
Murphy of Flanner Hall and Bloss of Farley Hall plan to 
PLEASE CONSERVE OUR RESOURCES. RECYCLE. RECYCLE. RECYCLE. 
Correction 
In a story in Friday's edition, The Observer incorrectly listed the names on a ticket for student body president and vice president. Chris Murphy of Flanner Hall and Emily Bloss of Farley Hall are among six tickets running for the office. The Observer regrets the error. 
Interested in Film.s? Directing? Acting? 
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE! 
Get An Early Jump and Start Making Your Movies For March 26lh 



Morrissey Film Festival 
Questions? Call Rian Akey at X3596 or Paul Matthews at X3597 
"bring communication back to between the students and stu­dent government" through such measures as the debit card, a smoking room in LaFortune, closer ties with the Student Union Board in events like An­Tostal, more money for non­varsity athletics, and a simpler process for students studying abroad with another university, said Murphy. 
"We want to see what the students want," he added. 
Reinke, co-president of Keenan Hall and a member of the Student Senate for the past two years, and Dickey, co-presi­dent of Knott Hall, want to "give students a voice," said Reinke. Though "Student Government has done an incredible job," Reinke said that it has become more professional, and as a re-suit, "they've kind of left the students behind." 
Reinke said that the issue of undergraduate education at Notre Dame has become "stale, but it is still the most important" issue on campus. They also support increasing the amount of 24-hour space on campus, co-residentiality, and establishing an information telephone line. 
"We can promise that we'll lead with integrity and value­based leadership," said Heinke. 
A debate between the candi­dates will be held on Wednesday, Feb. 3 at 7:30p.m. in the Ball Hoom of Lafortune. 

BRUNO'S PIZZA 
289--4625 
2610 Praire 
18" Large Pizza $995 
(two toppings) 
DINE IN OR CARRY OUT ONLY 
Offer valid Monday through Thursday until the end of May 

Tickets available at t1E laForture Infomatimr::esk. from 9AM to10 PM. TIMJtickets r::er I.D., ae I.D. r::er rers=n-Alimite:inurter of tickets are available. 
-----------------------------------------------------------1 
Monday, February 1, 1993 The Observer page 5 

Clinton returns, meets governors 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton returned Sunday to the White House for meetings with the nation's governors fol­lowing a two-day retreat with his Cabinet that he convened to discuss plans for reviving the economy. 
Dressed in blue jeans and a brown leather jacket, Clinton bounded ofT the Marine One he­licopter at dusk and ducked into the White House to watch the Super Bowl and get ready for the evening meeting with the nation's governors. 
"We worked hard for two days and it was great," Clinton said, shouting to reporters above the roar of his helicopter after he returned from Camp David, Md. 
It was his first trip as presi­dent to the compound in the Ca­toctin Mountains north of Washington. 
Several members of his Cabi­net and staff arrived by bus to the White House later in the evening, but refused to talk to reporters. 
Asked if he finished his eco­nomic plan at the presidential retreat, Clinton said: "We spent a lot of time talking about it." 
White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said several staff members joined the Cabinet at the meeting Sunday. She said about 80 people attended the five-hour session, which was conducted in a large room at Hickory Lodge. 
Myers said a wide variety of issues were discussed, including the economy, health care and how federal agencies can better work together. Clinton's controversial decision to suspend the ban on homosexuals in the military "was not even brought up," said Myers, who refused to provide specific details about the discussions. 
It wasn't all work and no play: Myers said Clinton bowled Sat­urday night. "I believe (Agriculture Secretary) Mike Espy said he got a bowling les­son from the president," Myers said. 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -When Pope John Paul II leaves for Africa on Wednesday, he will journey into the heart of a Mus­lim-Christian conflict on a continent that is one of the world's last major battlegrounds for converts. 
The Muslim fundamentalist government of Sudan has been widely accused of oppressing its Christian minority as it grinds out a 10-year war with rebels in the south, where most of the Christians live. 

The Sudanese Bishops Con­ference says Christians have been tortured. Missionaries have been forced to leave. Priests have been arrested and 
Would You Like to Help in this Exciting New Time of Change? 
Join the... 

Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune 


parishes closed. Christians say they are closely watched and sometimes rounded up. 
The plight of his brethren helped prompt the leader of the world's Roman Catholics to tack Sudan on to the end of his eight-day African pilgrimage, which will first take him to Benin and Uganda. 
The military government in Khartoum, seeking to boost its international image, agreed to the visit, even though the Holy See has lodged a protest against its alleged human rights abuses. 
In advance of the visit, Sudan has eased travel restrictions, agreed to televise the pope's scheduled open-air Mass and released two jailed priests. But it is uncertain whether those improvements will last. 
"It is a question in everyone's mind. What is going to happen when everybody forgets about Sudan when the pope goes home?" said the Rev. Joseph Bragotti, a veteran missionary in Africa. 
He said one official told a fel­low member of his order, the Khartoum-founded Comboni Missions, that Christians would pay for the pope's visit after he 


r-----~-------~-~-:--------~------------~------------~---­
page 6 The Observer 
Monday, February 1,1993 

Dear Seniors: How ro ORnER mrn 
PAN1S

..... 
~ 
~

tt ~ t1 .. :I 
Yes, it's your last semester. You thought the time would never come, but here you are, counting the days 'til graduation and wondering how'll you'll get everything done. 
One  thing  you  won't  have to worry about is contributing to the Uni­ 
versity  so  you '11  be  m  the  lottery for 1993 football tickets.  Why?  Because  
for  your  first  year  as  an  alum, you're automatically included.  And you '11  

always be a member, dues-free, of the world-wide Notre Dame Alumni Association. As such, 
alumni services and programs are available to you. 
One of these is Notre Dame Magazine, among the top college magazines in the country. Another is the ALUMNI newsletter which you received in September. Take a good look at the January issue coming soon. It gives you an idea of the activities of the more than 200 Notre Dame clubs as well as information· about Alumni Association programs. 


Your special status as a Notre Dame graduate starts early --it starts now. You'll notice that, with your copy of the ALUMNI newsletter, you'll receive a ballot for the Alumni Board of Directors election. Because you will be an alum before 
these candidates will be seated, you have the opportunity now to vote for the seven new members 
'' •If)' 'ti'• )\I" • ' ' 
. • . .~-' ::.. ·. ·uu~ ;.~;:·.11~ lu J.h'· ~ U.t..AU:J.IG 1111 t::l GU..t. a. 
of the Board. .~ ·v, 
It's easy! And an official Cotton Bowl memento can be yours as well. Look M©bil over the ballot, choose your candidates (vote for seven), and either mail your post-g=rc~ age-free ballot or bring your marked ballot to the Alumni Office at 201 Main Building. ~. When you bring in your ballot, you can pick up your free memento of the Irish victory over the Aggies --the official Cotton Bowl button. It's a bit of memorabilia to remind you of your senior 
year at Notre Dame. If you have any questions, drop in to the Alumni Office at 
201 Main Building. It's a habit we hope you '11 practice often for all the years to come! 
Sincerely, 


'62 M.A. Executive Director, Alumni Association Assistant Vice President, University Relations 

P.S. The Alumni Association is not a fund-raising organization. Because new alumni are often confused about how the football ticket .lottery W<?r~s, however, we'd like to explain that, in order to be in the '94 football ticket lottery, you're 
asked to contnbute a mimmum of $25 to the University before December 31, 1993. You'll hear more from your class officers on this. 
' . 





Viewpoint 
Monday, February 1 , 1993 page 7 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

High-tech building still needs some improvements 
Dear Editor: commencing the faceless and envied by its peer institutions frustrations, making me feel offerings, thus restoring some 
I am not a technophobe. impersonal process of Media­for this, and justifiably so. Nev­like DeBartolo Hall has taken of our pedagogical freedom? 
I am not disgruntled. on-Call. ertheless, basic teaching truths much more away from me than I wonder if it is too late to cor­
I am not a rabble rouser. A grace period of five minutes cannot be ignored. it has given. Is it really so rect this mistake. External in­
I am an Assistant Professional is given to the instructor prior A syllabus provides the big unthinkable that our students puts are in every classroom, Specialist and concurrent to the class in question, during picture: from Point A to Point B. should see us change our own which could be connected to Lecturer in French at Notre which the materials may be How the instructor chooses to videotape or laserdisc? videotape players. At this point, Dame, and I am disappointed cued up via a curious simulated get there from here is fun­in order to use DeBartolo effec­by the murky bureaucratic sta­wood grained remote control damentally a matter of personal Perhaps more to the point: is tively, I am prepared to bring tus quo at our cutting­(thus prohibiting the instructor choice. There are countless it really so unthinkable that an my own portable videotape edge/state-of-the-art DeBartolo from discussing anything with valid reasons for departing instructor may use more than player. classroom building. students before class). The from a syllabus (e.g. topical one videotape in one lesson, or 
This is my second year of Media-on-Call system promptly events, tragedies and triumphs even change the resource in If Media-on-Call was created teaching French at Notre Dame, shuts itself down when the class in student lives, the arrival of a question on the day of the to prevent technological chaos, and I can honestly say that I period ends, regardless of new video, etc.). class? Such eventualities are then it has failed. But the foun­would not want to be anywhere where the class is in the view­Each class develops its own out of the question in our De­dation is there for improving else. As an Assistant ing process. personality and needs; technol­Bartolo Hall classrooms. the system. I am encouraged by Professional Specialist and My sarcasm is the product of ogy should enable, rather than the dialogue DeBartolo Hall has Concurrent Lecturer, I teach DeBartolo Hall frustrations. disable this process. Spontane­My question is simple: why initiated. It is exciting to see so four courses each semester to Bringing up the numerous ity is the very essence of cre­the smoke and mirrors? I would many faculty anxious to use the most consistently creative, anecdotal DeBartolo Hall ti­ative and thoughtful teaching; dare say that the most Notre Dame's remarkable re­gifted and motivated students I rades with which I am familiar there is simply little room for frequently requested medium in sources. That is precisely why I have ever encountered hardly seems fair, given the any kind of spontaneity in De­DeBartolo is the VCR. Surely the am using this campus-wide fo­(including the Ivy League stu­building's many impressive Bartolo Hall. money was there to put a VCR rum; I would like for colleagues dents I taught at Penn). features. However tempting it Equally disturbing is the fact in each classroom (or at least a and students to seriously study 
Since my academic rank de­may be to retell these horror that the very machines that run videotape player, which is all the question of how we would fines my primary responsibility stories, I would prefer to stick our march towards the cutting­that is needed). Would it not be like to see DeBartolo Hall work as teaching, I have made it a to advanced Computer Assisted edge are sealed off in a re­a tremendous relief to Central for us. point to get my hands on the Instruction systems in the stricted area. This depersonal­Command to only schedule latest high-tech tools in order to country. Notre Dame must be ization has only increased my laserdisc, slides and satellite I am not convinced that our improve my methods. It has 
--------------------voices were heard when the
I
been a pleasure to refine and building was conceived. I do
\
redefine my teaching skills by l hear many irate voices now that using Notre Dame's impressive the System is in place. variety of technologies. There is ! Constructive campus-wide dia­no question that my students ' logue could resolve this anger, have responded well to high­and let us correct what is tech learning. wrong. Just like the instructor's 
Then I was scheduled in De­syllabus, DeBartolo Hall is not a Bartolo Hall, where I learned I finished/linear product. There would have to plan any spon­must always be room to taneity in my classroom 48 improvise and improve. Spon­hours in advance of my class; taneity should go hand-in-hand faculty must submit materials with technology. At this point, for DeBartolo's Central Com­my hands are tied. mand diffusion (and reserve access to the machines that Paul R. McDowell broadcast the materials) two Assistant Professional days before they actually teach Specialist the lesson. The instructor's tape and Concurrent Lecturer or videodisc is then passed on in Romance Languages to the bowels of DeBartolo, Jan.26,1993 
DOONESBURY QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I'M T/RW OfBt/NG IN 7H& UN­
/3,{}., I'V& REACHW 

P£R6ROUNP E3CONOMY, TIR£!?
A P&CIS/ON. I a/ANT 

OfPUUING fB-HOUR 5HIFT5,
7V GO te61T/ ""' 

71/<WOFNOT/3tiN3 ABl/3 TO Pit£" UPMY(WN CI?£PIT ('AR[l aBT.t 
I'Vt PtCI/JW 7V GO SlRAfffiT.I TO GUA QX:IAL-5£CIJR17Y NUMEJB?., 7V ~eA P!<ai!}, 
STAN!?-UP, TAX-PAYING M!3M­
eet<OF7H8 
FORe&/~ 
r 

'It men were angels, no government would be necessary. If angels were to govern men, neither external nor internal controls on government would be necessary.' 
James Madison 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
2-f 
Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, February 1 , 1993 


Beware the government's use of contraception 
In his State of the State mes­on welfare to receive Norplant beth Conference of 1930, that Centesimus Annus, Pope John promiscuity with impunity there sage on January 14th, Governor have been introduced in 13 contraception is always an ob­Paul II denounced the must also be abortion and William Donald Schaefer state legislatures. For example, jective moral wrong. "systematic anti-childbearing infimticide, sterilization and proposed that Maryland offer former presidential candidate Humanae Vitae was greeted campaigns which, on the basis euthanasia. free Norplant inserts to women David Duke proposed, in the with scorn by clerics and laity of a distorted view of the demo­"The logical contraceptionist on welfare and free vasectomies Louisiana state legislature, that of The Church of Where It's At. graphic problem and in a cli­must insist that if these cannot to men leaving prison; he poor mothers be paid $100 per But nobody in his right mind is mate of 'absolute lack of re­be generalized by persuasion, suggested that such birth­year to use Norplant. laughing at Paul VI now. spect for the freedom of choice they must be imposed by law. It control measures be made Free Norplant inserts are Humanae Vitae prophetically of the parties involved,' often has long been recognized that mandatory in some cases. offered to students at Paquin forecast that, if contraception subject them 'to intolerable there is a connection between 
Norplant consists of six School, a Baltimore public high were regarded as legitimate in pressures ... to force them to eroticism and totalitarianism." matchstick-size capsules im­school for teen-age mothers, any case, the state would submit to this new form of op­My impression is that many planted under the skin of a without parental knowledge or eventually impose it by pression.' Notre Dame students know woman's upper arm. It releases consent, which program drew coercion: "A dangerous weapon "These policies are extending Humanae Vitae only through 
praise from the New York Times would thus be placed in the their field of action by the use of professorial and clerical carica­and is likely to serve as a model hands of those public new techniques, to the point of tures of it. Its 25th anniversary
Charles E. Rice 

for other schools. authorities who take no heed of poisoning the lives of millions of is not likely to be officially cele­
Right or Wrong 

Norplant is the utilitarian moral exigencies. defenseless human beings, as if brated here. weapon of choice against the "Who could blame a in a form of 'chemical But perhaps we could com­welfare problem, especially government for applying to the warfare."' memorate the encyclical by tak­
a hormone which operates to 
among minority groups. The solution of the problems of the On this 25th anniversary of ing an anniversary poll, provid­
prevent fertilization or, if 
coercion is implicit but real. community those means Humanae Vitae, the prophetic ing the members of the Notre
fertilization does occur, to 
As Arthur Caplan, director of acknowledged to be licit for character of that encyclical is Dame Theology Department an
prevent implantation of the 
the Center for Biomedical married couples in the solution clear. opportunity to state publiclyembryo in the womb. 
Ethics at the University of Min­of a family problem? The "birth control" mentality, and individually whether they
Therefore, although com­
nesota, said, "Today, a welfare "Who will stop rulers from in the words of Irish Cardinal agree with and support Hu­
monly described as a contra­
mother is coerced into using favoring, from even imposing Cabal Daly, "means the aban­manae Vitae.
ceptive, Norplant is also an 
Norplant. Tomorrow, the state upon their peoples, if they were donment of self-control over The students and alumniabortifacient. 
is in the parent licensing busi­to consider it necessary, the sexual urges; it implicitly au­might be interested in the re­The implant is effective for ness." method of contraception which thorizes sexual promiscuity ... sults. On a more basic level, it
five years and cannot be re­
This advent of legalized geno­they judge to be most effica­"(S)ociety... makes it would be appropriate for each
moved by the woman herself 
cide should prompt us to recall cious? unnaturally difficult for people, of us to read and reflect onbut only by a physician. Nor­that this is the 25th anniversary "In such a way men would particularly young people, to be llumanae Vitae and itsplant is covered by Medicaid in of Humanae Vitae, the 1968 reach the point of placing at the continent; and then offers a prophetic character. 
all 50 states and more than 
encyclical of Pope Paul VI. mercy of the intervention of remedy, contraceptives, which
500,000 women have received 
llumanae Vitae affirmed what public authorities the most merely increases the Professor Rice is a member of
the implant since its introduc­had been the unbroken personal and most reserved incontinence. the Law School faculty. !lis
tion in 1991. 

teaching of all Christian reli­sector of conjugal intimacy." "Promiscuity is the logic of column appears every other
Measures to compel women 
gions until the Anglican Lam-In his 1991 social encyclical, birth control; but to have Monday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Articles describe rapes, other horrible crimes in Bosnia 
Dear Editor: "They raped us so that we rounded up Muslims for "ethnic doctors the Serb terrorists She was also forced to drink 
We, in the Muslim Student would become pregnant," re­cleansing." decided not to kill her but wine. Assoeiation, recently received a ported 23 year old Mirsana Di­They loaded the able-bodied brought her to the military Saida Ajanovic, a widow newsletter of the Bosnian Task dovic. "They told us contemp­men in about 50 buses and sent hospital. "She worked every whose husband was killed in Forcn, USA. After reading the tuously that we should be proud them "for interrogation" to day for them but every night the fighting, said all the young contents of it, we felt the ne­to be mothers of Serbian chil­Luka, a notorious, Serb-run de­she was raped. She was sick held at the school, over 100 in cessity to bring its contents to dren. The Serbian soldiers not tention camp in nearby Brcko, and desperate. She told them all, were raped. "My cousin, the University community. only abused us physically, but where several prisoners were that she was between two and Dzananovic Safa, died at the 
We feel that in light of the we have now lost the right to slaughtered. Then they packed three months pregnant." school. She was diabetic but general media's continued lack become mothers and wives of about 1,000 women, children A 57-year old mother of six the Serbs wouldn't let her take of interest in the situation found our own free wills. In our area, and old people into 8 buses, reported she had been raped her medicine." in Bosnia and the horrific con­girls are virgins until their drove them around the coun­twice nightly for 10 days. "She tent and pain conveyed in the wedding day. Premarital rela­tryside and held them under was desperate and under psy­We appeal to you, Saudi Ara­following articles, it is our duty tions are considered scan­armed guard for 4 terrifying chological pressure so heavy bia, Iran, the Emirates, Kuwait, not only as Muslims, but also as dalous. Now we'll be punished nights without food or water in she couldn't live with it," Kre­and other oil-rich nations of the membnrs of the human race to for being victims of a crime. No the town of Ban Brdo. itmayar said. Muslim world, our brothers in bring the on-going events in man will want to marry us. We Serb soldiers returning from Nezira Fabric, 17, was raped Islam, in the name of Allah, Bosnia to light. are ruined as women." the front invaded the buses ev­then strangled to death. Her stop shipment of your resources 
We feel that these articles will • Article 2: "0 Muslims! Can ery night and led women and mother, Hanifa Fabric, 50, said, to those directly or indirectly call to everyone with any value You Respond to the Call of Your girls to an unknown location at "We found her on the couch taking part in the Bosnia for life, regardless of your reli­Sisters?" by Nur Farha knife point, recalled Senada. with her arms at her neck. Holocaust. You can bring them gious affiliation. We warn you "We want the world to know "They threw them out in the They raped her and then they to their knees! You can make that the following material is about our truth. All mothers. morning, and their clothes were strangled her." Ziba Hasanovic, them realize that you are graphic. All women," said Senada, 17, torn, and they were covered 18, said she was taken to the capable of protecting your 
• Article 1: "60,000 Women who wrote a statement by hand with blood," she said. makeshift bordello on the sisters and your daughters. If Haped" and gave it to the chief gyne­The mothers arrived at Tuzla second night of the Serb you truly believe in Allah (SWT) 
The number of victims may be cologist at the Tuzla Hospital. on June 23, distraught about occupation. "That night I was and the Day of Judgment and if more than that but the Society "I wouldn't want anyone else to their missing daughters and raped by one man and then you have the true weapon of of Threatened People in Bonn have the same experience. It is traumatized by the journey, three others and we were !man, do it! This is Jihad in the (Germany) estimated that the worse than any other punish­whlch began with another bus 'treated as slaves." Hasanovic truest sense of the word! number of Muslim women ment in the world." ride and ended with a forced said she spent her days in the As you can see, the events raped in occupied Bosnia is at Hafiza, 23, said she sought to 12-mile walk through a war bordello kitchen baking bread. occurring in Bosnia are inex­least 60,000. It is unfortunate dissuade the soldier who raped zone on a road littered with "I knew all who raped me. cusable! While the call in the that not many women's organi­her. " I tried crying and beg­human corpses. They were my neighbors," she article is to Muslims, we feel zations. government agencies, ging," she said. "I said, 'You Their daughters arrived four said. "I am angry. I want re­that the actions of the Serbs and the U.N. are speaking have a mother and sister, a days later, exhausted and in a venge." should be addressed by all. about it. It is even not consid­female in the family.' He said state of shock, doctors said. Jasmina Feric, 20, witnessed None of us should be able, in ered a war crime by interna­nothing. He didn't want to talk. Most were in critical condition, the murder of her grandfather. good conscience, to turn our tional law yet. Then he said, 'I must. I must."' according to the gynecological "They cut off his ears, then slit backs on this situation. If you 
The systematic rape and The rape victims were inter­team that examined them later. his throat. They threw him would like to contact the killing of women is being used viewed at a refugee center. The health and psychological behind the house,'' she said. Bosnian Task Force for further as a major method of ethnic Four young women from the stress upon the young women She was allowed to live at her information, or to help in their 
cleansing of Muslim and Croats village of Liplje said their Serb are only a part of the tragedy, parents' house but was taken efforts to stop these crimes by Serbians. During the World captors had detained them in a for each is missing a father or a off each night to the bordello. against humanity call: 312-829­Wars, rape became a sort of makeshift bordello where three brother. Few of the women Edino Zimic, 15, said she was 0087. For further information right of the conquering armies or more raped them every night have nowhere to go, the the taken by armed men from the here at Notre Dame call Ma'arij of Europe, but the Serbians for 10 nights. rapes have destroyed their school on July 30 and hauled to at 631-4006 {office) or 233­have turned raped into an army A leading Bosnian women's lives. Satka, 20, said she de­the headquarters of a local Ser­2774 {home), or Yahya at 634­institution. They have group has reported that upward spised the man who raped her bian military commander. "He 1473. Please Brothers and established Hape Camps of 10,000 Bosnian women are and threatened her with a asked me questions about Sisters of the Notre Dame throughout the occupied terri­currently being held in Serb grenade. "He put a grenade in where Bosnian units were and Community, it is imperative that tory of Bosnia. detention camps where their my hand and said, 'All Serbs wanted to know if I would take we act to stop atrocities in 
The rape of Muslim women is captors rape them repeatedly. are good, and I am a good a Serbian name. Then he took Bosnia. Please act now! such an established fact that Another pattern is the rape of Serb.' And if I didn't agree, he me to a flat and raped me." Ma'arij Syed even a leader of the Serbian pregnant and middle-aged would kill me." She said she was raped on two Vahya Daly Orthodox Church of Bosnia, women. According to the vic­Dr. Kreitmayar said one nurse other nights during the week at Abid Vousef Nikola Mrdja, admitted recently tim, preparations for mass rape from Brezovo Polje had lost her school, once by three Serbian Zulfiqar Bokhari on a television station that the began in the morning of June mother, father, husband and 4-men she knew. Edino's 17-year Muslim Student number of raped women was 17 when Serb soldiers in masks year old child "in front of my old sister Elvira said she was Association approximately 30,000. piled out of their mini-vans and eyes." The woman told the gang-raped on three occasions. Jan.29, 1993 
•. '. ' .... ' .. ' '' .. '.' ... 
----------------~ 


Accent 

Monday, February 1, 1993 page 9 


Safety first 
Notre Dame campus security has changed to accomodate women, but problems still exist 
Editor's note: This story is part of a monthly Accent series commemorating the 20th anniversary of coeducation at Notre Dame. 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Preventing sexual assault, harassment, alcohol abuse and protecting students' personal safety. Do these sound like the goals of security at Notre Dame today? Well, they are not only today's goals but were also the goals of 20 years ago with the advent of the age of coeduca­tion at Notre Dame. 
When female domers took up residence in Badin and Walsh Halls during the fall of 1972, in came the now familiar detexes and friendly security guards that protect women's dorms and keep men out while the greater population sleeps. Lighting created a buzz throughout campus. 
But perhaps the biggest secu­rity challenge that administra­tors had with the arrival of women was simply "the diffi­culty in making them conscious of safety because Notre Dame is so ideal. It's just difficult to persuade them that something bad could happen to them here," said Sister John Myriam Jones. who .served as Associate. Provost at Notre Dame from 1972-89. 
Adapting security measures for women was done through a group effort of rectors, admin­istration, and campus security. "Problems were worked out through constant meeting and talking with other women rec­tors, Sister John Myriam and the men rectors," said Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice presi­dent for student affairs and rec­tor of Farley Hall from when it opened as a women's dorm in 1973 until 1983. 
"We took a lot of advice from the men; everything from how the halls were split into sections with section leaders to the night time security guards," said Lenz. 
In fact, when women first arrived at Notre Dame, male security guards were a fixture in male dorms. Their main re­sponsibility was not providing security as much as fire protec­tion. But with the technological advancement of smoke detec­tors over the years, the male security guard was phased out. 
The women's dorms security guards were instituted to func­tion as fire watch/ security pro­tectors and also to be someone that the students could go to in the middle of the night, accord­ing to Rex Rakow, current di­rector of campus security. 
Twenty years later, the hall monitors continue to provide the same kind of assistance. 
"The hall monitors are kind of like house mothers. They are there in case someone has a problem at night when ev­eryone else is asleep," said Rakow. "They also work more for the hall staffs than for us." 
"I sleep better knowing that there is someone in the hall," said Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall since the fall of 1991. "Even with the de­tex system, the hall is very vul­nerable, as I found out last 

. The Observer/Sean Farnan Campus security has attempted to make the campus safer by increasing the amount of emergency phones around campus, like the one pictured above. 
summer when there was not a cially the lighting on Saint monitor on duty. All rectors 20 Years Mary's road," said Rakow. 
cf 

argue to have them in the The creation of Safewalk is buildings, even the men's dorms of another security improvement would like to have a guard A that has proved itself to be both overnight. Coeducation needed and beneficial. Started "There are people who are in 1990 by then-student Gina forbidden from the hall and Mahoney, Safewalk has others who have had to be "It just really was quite bad. I escorted over 4,200 students in escorted out. Destruction of used to put girls to bed and three years, two of them males, 
hear them fall down the stairs.

property is also an issue. The according to senior R.G. Star-
guards just play an instrumen-But the problems seemed to go mann, who is the director and tal role in protecting Lyons," down right away with the new also student government secu­she said. policy," said Miller. rity commissioner. 
Rakow and Beatty argued Miller has seen different "The presence of Safewalk that the purpose of security problems become the main is-helps in ways that people see guards was primarily to secure sues through the years. "Back and don't see. So many stu­the halls. "Anybody can break then the lack of a true alcohol dents need to use it and do. pareitals. Its really not that policy led to a lot of the prob-Also, security takes our input hard. But it is extremely im-!ems, but I'd say that our main seriously for ways to improve portant that we have someone concern in the last few years things. We definitely are 
here at night making a to keep the"l h th f' . ht th t th contribution
dorm secure," was ere e lrst mg a e women t 0 w a r d s said Beatty. moved in. There have been many different imp r 0 vi n g S e c u r i t y bl th Th· h security around
guard Jeannepro ems over e years. lnQS are muc campus," said Miller, whobetter nOW, the system jUSt SeemS tO Operate Starmann. has worked inmuch more smoothly." When Safewalk 
Lyons Hall began, it was since it purely a opened for -Lyons Hall security guard Jeanne Miller v 0 I u n t e e r 
women in the organization, but 
fall of 1972.__________________________.soon after began 
and retired has been harassment." to pay the yesterday, has seen many Beatty also said that the high "Safewalkers," who now receive changes during her tenure in incidents of harassing phone the standard University wage of thedorm. callstothedormhasbeenare-$5.20 per hour for their 
"I was here the first night that cent problem. services. About 25 the women moved in. There "Safewalkers" spend six hours have been many different ••• of their week escorting students problems over the years. Some of the biggest security around at night, with weeknight Things are much better now; issues facing women in the 21st requests usually outnumbering the system just seems to oper-year of coeducation are sexual those of the weekend. Safewalk ate much more smoothly," she assault, acquaintance rape, also sees their number of said. date rape and personal safety, requests increase during 
"There was not much of an according to Rakow. warmer weather, "when more alcohol policy in the beginning "Some of the ways that we people want to escape from and I think that this contributed have attempted to solve these their dorm," said Starmann. to a lot of disruption and chaos more recent problems and Despite Safewalk's docu­in the halls. The parties in the make the campus safer are by mented popularity and use, dorm got out of control and increasing the emergency many students choose not to there were so many more phone system and also improv-use it. women who would come home ing the campus lighting, espe-For example, sophomore and be sick through the night. Emily Hage has also never used Safewalk. "I just would never use it. It just looks so goofy. The only time I would consider it would be to escort me from my dorm (P.W.) to the D-2 parking lot. I feel that this campus is very safe and secure." 
Sophomore Mandy Cully walks home late most nights from the Architecture building to her dorm on the "mod quad." Yet, again Safewalk has never crossed her mind. "I feel very safe on this campus and never feel the need to use Safewalk." 
Another student-adopted ad­dition to security since the ad­vent of women at Notre Dame is the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE), which was created about eight years ago by a joint coalition of students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, IUSB and Sex Offense Services (SOS) of South Bend, according to CARE president Shelia Buckman, a Notre Dame senior. 
CARE was revived last year in order to strengthen its role in informing students about the danger of rape and to try and eliminate its occurrence on campus. It has recruited new members who have been trained by SOS for the aware­ness presentations that they put on in dorms. 
CARE also sponsored Sexual Assault Awareness Week last year, a week-long presentation of security measures designed to prevent rape by educating students in order to make them more aware of precautions they can take. There will be another sexual assault awareness week this year from March 22-26. 
Reforming the administra­tion's mention of rape in DuLac is another project that CARE is working on. For instance, they would like to institute a flow chart in DuLac that would pre­sent the reporting procedures clearly and make the manual more "user friendly," according to Buckman. 
The organization is also working with the administration and security to create a more uniform system of reporting rapes that occur on campus. They hope to conglomerate the rapes that are reported to security and to dorm officials together into one figure. 
The way the statistics are currently reported are not as clear as they could be, according to Buckman. CARE is also trying reform the reporting process to make it more confidential. For example, if a student rape victim is taken to a local hospital now, her name is passed on to residence life and, according to Buckman, CARE would like to see this practiced stopped. 
Since Notre Dame opened its doors to females almost 21 years ago, security has changed and expanded to accommodate its new students. Gone are many security headaches that existed before the Alcohol policy was modified in 1984 and in its place is an increasing awareness of the frightening occurrence of sexual assault and harassment. Yet, many of the same problems that exist today are those that existed all those years ago. 

• I' • 


Accent
page 10 Monday, February 1, 1993 
•

r1 

Saint Mary's presents ((Europe and the World on 84 Cents a Day}} 
By MEGAN BRUCHAS 
Accent Writer 

While travelling through Eu­rope, a student can use nearly 20 ways to find free accommodations, according to Gil White, a noted expert on frugal traveling. 
White will share this and over 75 more cost-saving methods and tips tonight at Saint Mary's as he lectures and presents a slide show on the way to travel 
I 
"Europe and the World on 84 
Cents a Day."

r 
I 
International travel can serve as an excellent educational op­
I portunity, according to White. However, the high cost of many travel programs often denies students this chance. "Travelling is one of the best educations that a person can have," White said. Having seen thirty countries for under a thousand dollars, White hopes to encourage all students to travel. 
White's ideas of safety and security during European travel differ from conventional standards of the United States, he said. He claims that Euro­peans have a more open­minded attitude toward travel than in the United States. 
For example, sirice trans­portation around Europe can be one of the student's biggest expenses, he suggested hitch­hiking, cycling . riding the the way travelers often stay at When it comes to safety. he said. 
Travelling is an invaluableEuro-rail, or simply walking as the homes of strangers while White stated that despite the Travelling alone is preferable experience of a lifetime, Whitealternatives. travelling, White said. He added apparent danger of rooming to travelling in groups of said. Expenses should not be a

that this practice is common temporarily with strangers or friends, White said. He said that 
deterrence to travel, andThere are many ways to get throughout the European hitching rides with motorists, finding places to stay can 

anyone can have the chance ifaround. yet White said he did countryside, where students there is a risk in anything that become difficult when travelling 

they learn how to manage

most of his by hitchhiking. simply walk into the homes of you do. companions become com­themselves inexpensively andwhich is not considered as strangers and volunteer help in "If you listen to every warning petitive. 
safely.

dangerous in Europe as it is in exchange for a place to sleep. you will never go out and do the United States. anything," he said. White said that homeowners 
"It becomes harder to find a place to stay and friends start to White will speak tonight at"Europeans have a totally dif­are generally welcoming to One of White's theories is 7p.m. in Carroll Auditorium in
ferent attitude about hitchhik­strangers, that they won't react looking clean cut and confident. compete against each other ers," he said. "People will take negatively, as they aren't ex­It will get an individual a long when it comes to boarding," Madeleva Hall. Admission is 
free.

you with open arms." pecting anyone to ask for a way when it comes to traveling, said White. The same attitude is seen in room. 

The unique artistic style of John Keech 
By ELIZABETH QUINLAN marked by the color that has been added Accent Writer by airbrushing. The resulting piece can be used ultimately as an enlarged 
Creating free fluid images from such photographic negative. visual elements as waves, rhythms. vibrations and harmonies, innovative Although his work has strong surreal artist John Keech has developed a most elements in it, Keech admits he does not unique artistic style and this style is now have any distinct influences. The style on display at the Little Theater Gallery evolved and remains primarily its own. in the Moreau Center for the Arts at Says Keech, "As far as I know, there isn't Saint Mary's College. anyone else doing this." 
Keech, who is "I use tools and materials that Keech is able to 
from Arkansas . produce about four 
State University, Seem tO Seek partiCUlar pieces a year. The 
use~ oil paint on rhythms or wavelengths." ~orks invo!ve firstly
Plex1glass to create spontaneity". and the free flowing, --John Keech then a series of fluid images that retouchings and have such a mesmerizing effect. As he varnishing to preserve them. He describes it, "I use tools and materials confides, however. that he likes the older that seem to seek particular rhythms or pieces for their "shopworn" quality, it wavelengths." makes them "a little more human." 
Keech has worked with Plexiglass in 

The method he uses is much like this way for about eight years. The reverse glass painting, in which an current exhibit encompasses the last five image is traced and painted on one side years of his work. of the glass, but is viewed from the opposite side. John Keech's paintings will be on 
Many of Keech's earlier pieces are display at the Little Theatre Gallery
1ne Ubserver/Sean 1-arnan 

black and white, but recent works are through February 19.
The works of John Keech, shown here, are on display through February 19. 


The Observer page 11
Monday, February 1, 1993 

4  699  6  
5  698  2  
6  1 S-3  695  7  
7  Arizona  1 3-2  636  8  
8  lowa  I 4-3  604  11  
9  Michigan  1 6-3  576  5  
10 UNLV  I 3-1 556  9  
11  Vanderhilt  I 6-3  458  13  
12 Arkansas  1 3-4 414  12  
13 Oklahoma  I 4-5  401  19  
14 Seton Hall  1 5-S  360  10  
15 Florida State  1 4-6  304  20  
16 Purdue  I 2 -4  255  I 5  
17 Pittsburgh 18 Utah  I 3-3 1 S-3  231 212  18 21  
19 UCLA  I 4-5  177  23  
20  Wake  Foreat  13-3  145  
21 Marquette 22 Georgia Tech 23 Virginia 24 Tulane  1 5-2 138 1 1-5 127 1 2 -4 120 1 S-3 95  17 14  
25  Georgetown  12-4  90  22  

Odtll't -"'iDa--.: ~71. IA.itiYiUc 61, x.__.. 0111. ''· Y.i..._ a. "'· a.~-.... a. Ilr-• 
Zl. New Or.._, 20. OlliD !I. 19, New W.U. St. 16, N-..u u.-..... v-. 12. loudro.. c.1 u, ll..uu SL 10, T-••-a.a...-p. 10, WU_.i 
9.-t.... :S, 0Rp II. 4. W..r Yirpai114. ReSt. J, 
-..-w.a-.. J. T--m ,._ s. w . .-:,. '· o•-• 
2. ... 2, Oecr • ..........~ ahodc t.-.s 1. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
to pace the Fighting Irish. 
Notre Dame led by 6-1 and 12-6 early in the first half. But two baskets by Petruska and a 3-pointer by Edney sparked an 18-2 run that gave UCLA a 24­14 lead. 
A layup by Edney made it 30­21 UCLA. Hoover sank two free throws and a basket to pull Notre Dame to within 35-29 at 
Defense leads Syracuse 
(AP) -Defense did the work that Syracuse needed to extend Seton Hall's string of futility in the Carrier Dome. 
"The difference was our in­tensity on defense," Lawrence Moten of Syracuse said Sunday after the Orangemen beat No. 9 Seton Hall 76-67 Sunday for their second upset of a ranked team in five days. 
Moten scored 15 of his 21 points in the second half. Terry Dehere, the leading scorer in Big East, got 10 points as the Pirates lost their third consecu­tive game and fell from first place. 
"It was a carryover from the Pittsburgh game," Dehere said. "We figured we had to take away their 3-point shooting but you have to be active in the zone against a team like Seton Hall." 
Seton Hall, which has at least four players who are long­range threats, made just 4 of 21 3-point attempts against a 2-3 zone. 
halftime. 
NOTRE DAME (8-9) 
M.Williams 6-19 6-9 18, Russell 2-9 7-8 11, Joe Ross 2-3 0-0 4, Taylor 3-6 0-1 6, Justice 0-3 1-2 1, Cozen 0-0 0-0 0, Jon Ross 3-6 0-0 6, Hoover 7-11 2-2 17, J.Williams 1-3 0-1 2. Totals 24-60 16-23 65. 
UCLA (14-5) 
Butler 2-6 2-3 6, O'Bannon 6-10 1-2 13, Petruska 7-12 2-8 16, Tarver 4-9 1-3 9, Edney 5-9 2-4 13, Zimmerman 2-4 0-1 4, 
"That was caused by good defense," Seton Hall coach P.J. Carlesimo said. "But we also missed some relatively open shots by people who are accus­tomed to making them. It was a very disappointing perfor­
mance, a very poor perfor­mance. Syracuse had a lot to do with that." 
Seton Hall (15-5, 5-3) is 0-13 in the Carrier Dome and hasn't won at 
Syracuse since the 1950-1951 season. 
"We tried to know where De­here was all the time in our zone," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "Even though we're playing zone, we don't treat it like a stand-back zone and let people shot. We tried to get pressure on him all the time." 

Dempsey 2-7 0-0 6, Burns 0-1 1-2 1. Totals 28-58 9-23 68. 
Halftime-UCLA 35, Notre Dame 29. 3-Point goals-Notre Dame 1-11 (Hoover 1-5, Jon Ross 0-1, M.Williams 0-5), UCLA 3-16 (Dempsey 2-6, Ed­ney 1-5, O'Bannon 0-1, Burns 0-1, Tarver 0-3). Fouled out-Jon Ross, Zimmerman. Rebounds-Notre Dame 36 (Russell 8), UCLA 42 (Petruska 10). Assists-Notre Dame 12 (Russell 5), UCLA 22 (Edney 7). Total fouls-Notre Dame 21, UCLA 18. A-6,251. 


Second half surge pushes Butler past Notre Dame 
Observer staff report 
Led by four players in double figures and a strong second half surge, Butler topped the Notre Dame women's basketball team 82­70 Saturday night. 
Butler used a tough inside game to jump out to a 10-point lead in the first half, but a late spurt gave Notre Dame the lead 26-25 at the intermission. The Irish lead didn't last long as the Lady Bulldogs went on a 31-8 run in a seven minute span putting the game out of reach. 

MCC player of the week But­ler's Julie VonDielingen scored a team-high 25. Angela Cotton and Mary Majewski also added 15 for the Lady Bulldogs. A ca­reer-high 20 points by Irish -­forward Letitia Bowen led the Irish. 
Neither team shot exception­aly well from the floor. Butler hit a solid .478 while Notre Dame shot .377. Notre Dame was also hurt by the lack of production from leading scorer Coquese Washington. The senior guard scored only three points on 1-11 shooting from the floor. 
It was the fourth straight loss for the Irish, dropping their record to 8-9 and 4-3 in the Midwestern Collegiante 
The Observer/ John Bingham
Conference. Butler improved 
Sherri Orlosky scored seven 
to 13-3 and a perfect 7-0 in 
points in the losing efforst. 
the conference. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The


Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT I need 4 Marquette tix Spring Break! Daytona Beach! Thank you St. Jude Mary and NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO (students or GAs). The game is Ocean Front Hotels: Quad Holy Spirit for many favors ¥I.____No_T_Ic_E_s-----~1 I WANTED FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR WED. Feb. 17. Call Rebecca at Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: Vip 
granted 2773097 x4121. DiscounVID card ... Round trip 
Charter Bus from $199.50 per TYPING 287-4082 SUMMER JOBS 

person! Room Only available from BILL!!
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
FOR SALE DESPERATELY SEEKING 1, $109.50 per person. Limited
LEARN TO CLOG OR C & W PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 2, or 3 NO vs. DUKE GA tickets. Availability! 1-800-881-beach. You are so wonderful.
DANCE. BEGINNER"S VIDEOS. 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!!!! Happy Anniversary. 
FOR FREE CATALOG WRITE: NEAR LAKE PLACID Women's lt.wt. 26 in. Schwinn bike. 
Call ALISA @3196.

FANCY FEET DANCE & BAND 
CALL 1-800-786-8373. 10speed, red, like new, $135, call WEAR. P.O. BOX 569-ND, 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JENNY!!!I! Love, Kristy 234-7035 
Help! Need 4 KY GA's$$ 1341 
CLINTON, MS 39060. Adoption-Active, Young couple In light of your recent birthdays, you To Bronson-Rider: stop reading mewants to adopt your bundle of joy. Packs of 50 dd 3.5 in. diskets $10 deserve and EXCELLENT 20th. So like a book! But thanks for someLove and Laughter guaranteed. Call call mike 17 49 Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. don't let anyone tell you otherwise. good insight.... 
PIZZA NIGHT Peggy 1-800-682-8628. TUESDAY. FEB. 2, 1993 
Will pay$$$. Call (708)835-2208 You never know when an adventure might sneak up on you.
4:45 ·6:45P.M. Style on a student budget. ·as Audi 
Desperately seeKing basketball Whit Happy Birthday to Kim upon NOH ANDSDH $3600 or best offer. 271-0523. 
tickets for the NO vs. Duke entering the lost years; no longer a
ALASKA SUMMER Leave message. 
basketball game. Please call Kerri teen, not yet legal.
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn Used Texts Cheap Pandora·s $600+/week in canneries or • • • to the milker • • • NOTRE DAME BAND!!! 
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-$4000+/month on fishing boats. & THESOM
2342 NO Ave & Howard Free transportation! Room & Board! Cotton Bowl Picture Orders 
L.H-elp_!_ln-:-~-~-0K_/K-,~-.~-ix-.~-al-1E-m-ily...JI r"'';ERSONAL
Over 8000 openings. No experience 
i don't know what I can do to DUE. ..... 
RAPID WORDPROCESSING necessary. Male or Female. For 
x5245 show you how much you guys by 4:30pm Monday 211/93
Call Lori at 271-0754 employment program call 1-206­mean to me and how much I **All other orders in now**
545-4155 ext. A5584 AVOID THE RUSH!!!! love you!!! God was smiling ?'s: call Cristina at Band Office 
Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT 
WANTED on me when our worlds met... 
message, but don't wait until the SALE! 
2 GA's for the DUKE and/or NOTRE DAME BAND!!! 
BABYSITIER WANTED, MUST last minute to type it in!! Classifieds Lowest prices, best trips -1 00% 
Kentucky games! $$$$$ -From the one who "hangs 
SPEAK SOME JAPANESE. can be placed anytime between guaranteed! Cancun, Jamaica, & PREFER IF HAVE OWN AUTO. 
Please call Cheryl4-4813. the moon" and sends Easter 'donna. you are such a sweetheart. 
now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The Florida packages still available from CALL MICHIKO 
Airline tickets I Laughed Over Venus, Even Your 
Observer office (3rd floor America's student travel leader. 289-1108 AFTER 7 PM. 
l desperately need 3 DUKE tix!! Orange Undies ...'frank
LaFortune). Travel free · organize a small 
Please help!! Julie X-2993 CRUISE & BAHAMAS VACATION 7 days, 6 nights -cruise from Fort
group. Call STS@ (BOO) 648-4849. Student Painters is interested in Lauderdale to the Bahamas. 2 Hey now,
hiring highly motivated students to 
Need one Kentucky ticket. Student people $300 (air not included). Call
manage their own bus. we offer Summer jobs and internships­
or GA. Call Brian at 1194. 273-2740. Have 40hrs. of live Dead, always 
ILOST & FOUND I 
management training, credit University Directories, the nation's 
MELISSA: Call back, Lost#. looking for more. Interested in
backing, and a full support staff largest publisher of campusWho's your basketball coach?! trading-call
earning pot. $8,000. join the most telephone directories, isFound: 
Who's your basketball coach?! Scott x1191
successful painting co. in Indiana interviewing goal oriented students 
Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 Adoption: Doctor and teacher will 
call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom for a challenging, full-time summerBetween Cavanaugh and Zahm this basketball tix to the Kentucky make dreams for your baby come To J.H. and J.J the "Saturday Night 
Smith. position. Gain valuable experience weekend, a gold bracelet. Call 634­WildCATastrophe due to take place true. Full-time parenting. Best of the Live gang," thanks for Dalloway's
in advertising, sales and public 
1530 to describe. Ask for Steve. 
in the month de amor. Be a pal, city; summers by the beach: your and the brews ...! can still hear them 
relations. Average earnings $3,900. 
samaritan, or whatever and sell him baby rocked to sleep by a cozy calling my name ...... and at least I 
FOR RENT Expense paid training program inLOST: One girls "Kubisaki H.S." 
the tickets or one of his Italian fireplace in winter, and by ocean put the seat down!!! 
Chapel Hill, NC. College credit mayclass ring with mens neck chain. 
relatives might pay you a visit. Then waves in summer. Art, music, the
be available. Interviews on campus
Lost during the snowball fight most Music student seeks roommate to best education, endless love. Call 
the time for haggling will be over. 

February 3rd. Information and 
likely in South Quad. Huge 
share 2 bedroom, pleasant Call Skip at x2052 and leave a Franny or Stephen collect. HEY CBD, MEQ & CMC­
interview sign-up available today at
sentimental value! REWARD. 
apartment, low rent, 288-8933 message if he ain't around. (212)369-2597. WHAT CRAZY NIGHT IN EAST
CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library 
Please call Ryan @ X1691. 
LANSING-NO REGRETS!! 
or call 1-800-7 43-5556. 

I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! LOVE, AMR LOST: Green wind breaker at FURNISHED ROOM, $170 mo. 
MARY X2862 JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 
Florida SPRING BREAK 7 nights 
Campus View on Saturday, Jan 22. Walk to campus. FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE Susanne, Several things to .... 
Beachfront $139-159. RESERVE
It has yellow trim and my name 287-2159. GROUP TRAVEL FREEl HURRAY,
Needed: remember-1 )Well, cars just do 
rooms NOW. Call CMI1-800-423­
sewn in it. Please call634-3447 if 
One Kentucky Ticket LIMITED SPACE. that ma"am. 2)what are you going to
5264.

you have it. 
Call Sue X2494 SUN SPLASH TOURS wear in the car? Will jeans be okay. 3 BEDROOM HOUSE 1-800-426-7710. Love, Anne
PANAMA CITY BEACH!!! 7
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for 
NIGHTS AT BEACHFRONT
SECURITY SYSTEM Kentucky · Brian x1 069 Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on
HOTEL. STARTING AT $109.
LOST-gold bracelet w/heart 232-3616 Luxury Yachts Seven day Island 
CALL JAMES @289-2683
shaped links on 01/27. If 
l NEED 4 TICKETS FOR Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin 
DON'T DRINK 

found please call Annette 
KENTUCKY GAME! & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 
Happy Birthday Tracy

at x2644. BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CALL MEG-X3884 1/800-999-SAIL(7245)
I Love You, Sandra 
AND DRIVE

219-291-7153. 
page 12 The Observer Monday, February 1, 1993 



~52 17 


Cowboys 
continued from page 16 

Norton and Vinson Smith sparked a goal-line stand that stopped the Cowboys on three shots inside the Dallas 1 -the last on an ill-conceived fourth­down pass from the six-inch line. Dallas defensive coordina­tor Dave Wannstedt -whose prowess helped earn him the head coaching job in Chicago next season -had a nickel de­fense in on the play and Thomas Everett intercepted Kelly's desperation pass in the end zone. 
Everett had a second inter­ception in the fourth quarter that set up a 1 0-yard TO run by Smith. Then Norton scored ­taking in a fumble from 9 yards out after it bounced into his arms following a high snap. 
That first interception was typical for Buffalo. With and without Kelly, who reinjured his right knee with 6:52 left in the first half, it couldn't produce when it had to. 
Frank Reich. who engineered the biggest comeback in NFL history when he brought the Bills back from a 35-3 third­quarter deficit in the wild-card game with Houston, had no such miracles in him this day although he did throw a 40­yard TD pass to Don Beebe on the final play of the third quar­ter. 
On his first series, Reich drove Buffalo from his own 33 to the Dallas 3. 
But Haley stuffed Thurman Thomas on a third and one from the 3-yard line, forcing a 21-yard field goal by Steve 
Christie that cut the deficit to 
14-10 with 3:24 left in the half. 
It was the last gasp for the 
Bills. 
First Aikman drove the Cow­
boys 77 yards in 5 plays, hitting 
Irvin for a 19-yard TD on his 
favorite slant across the middle. 
Then Leon Lett stripped 
Thomas on the first play from 
scrimmage and Jones recovered 
on the 18. 
And then Aikman found Irvin 
at the 2 and he stepped around 
Nate Odomes for the score. It 
came 18 seconds after the 
previous TO and sent the Cow­
boys off with a 28-10 halftime 
lead, all but ending the game. 
"Those two TDs were the 
turning point," Levy said. 
. Johnson made sure that his 
team didn't sit on the 28-10 
halftime lead, reminding them 
about the Bills' comeback 
against Houston. 
"We didn't talk long," guard Nate Newton said. "Jimmy said damn Houston. We ain't Hous­ton. We're the Cowboys." 
They were. 
Lin Elliott's 20-yard field goal on the first series of the second half made it 31-10. Then, after the Reich-Beebe hookup had made it 31-17 and aroused the Buffalo fans -a minority in the crowd of 98,37 4 -Aikman put them out of their misery by hit­ting a wide open Harper for 45 yards with ten minutes left. 
Then Norton made it 52-17, the third biggest margin in Su­per Bowl history. It might have been more. But Lett, racing to­ward the end zone with a fum­ble with 4:42 left in the game, had the ball knocked from his hands by Beebe as he tried to jog in, holding the ball knee­high in his right hand. 
Johnson key to turnaround 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) ­Jimmy Johnson, a man who never lives in the past, refused to look back Sunday. The pre­sent felt much too good. 
So Johnson, whose Dallas Cowboys gave him a Super Bowl championship five seasons after his Miami Hurricanes gave him a national title, wasn't going to compare the feeling. 
"That was so long ago," he said after Dallas routed the Buf­falo Bills 52-17. "That was a great accomplishment, and so is this. They stand on their own. 
"I played for a national champion, I was head coach for a national champion, now I've coached a Super Bowl cham­pion. The common thread is quality people committed to be­ing the best." 
The common thread is John­son, a success at every level. He turned around the program at 

Attempts 30 Completions 22 Yards 273 lOuchdowns 4 Interceptions 0 
AP 

Oklahoma State. He built on the standard of excellence already established at Miami. And he gave America's Team back to America, guiding the Cowboys from the ignominy of 1-15 to the top of the sports world in four years. 
Four very short years. 

"We were last in the league the year before I got here," Johnson said. "We were last in my first year. Now, we're the best." 
Johnson has a strong rapport with his players and is close with his coaches. He was all smiles when the players doused him with Gatorade near the end of the game. He didn't back off when Emmitt Smith mussed Johnson's normally perfect coiffure. 
"We're a very tight team," said star receiver Michael Irvin (six catches for 114 yards, two 
MVP 

continued from page 16 
quarterback and go from there. Aikman was his man from the beginning. 
It seems like ages ago. 
Aikman had impeccible cre­dentials for the assignment. In two seasons at UCLA, he com­pleted 64.8 percent of his passes for 5,298 yards and 41 touchdowns. He finished his college career as the third rated quarterback in NCAA history and took the Bruins to 20 victories in 24 games, many of them in the shadow of the 

Jimmy Johnson 
touchdowns), who played for Johnson at Miami. "Everybody gets along because everybody wants the same thing. 
"That's one of the great things about our time. We all discuss and listen to each other. Then, we can say, 'Hey coach,' and they listen." 
That direction has been up ever since that 1-15 disaster. It shows no signs of abating: the Cowboys are the youngest team in the league and Johnson has only begun his tenure. 
San Gabriel Mountains that provide a picturesque backdrop for the Rose Bowl. 
Aikman had started his col­lege career at Oklahoma, where his family moved when he was 12 years old. He was frustrated there after breaking his leg in a game against John­son's University of Miami team. Aikman then transferred to UCLA where he blossomed into a star. It was a natural match for the kid from Cerritos, Calif. 
He was the quintessential No. 1 pick, a blond quarterback equipped with an easy smile, a pleasant disposition and the ability to find receivers. 

ATTENTION fiRST YEAR STUDENTS 




!JirslYear ofcS!udies Gonuocalion 
Keynote Speaker 
Father Edward Malloy 
Monday, February 1 8 p.m. Stepan Center 
Reception North Dining Hall 
9 p.m. 

r 
The Observer 

Monday, February 1 , 1993 
Men's tennis falls to #8 North Carolina 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The road back to the finals of the NCAA tournament will be a long one, filled with many diffi­cult challenges. 
The 6th-ranked Irish men's tennis team learned that lesson first-hand on Saturday, drop­ping a 4-3 decision to 8th­ranked North Carolina. 
"Coach Bayliss said that no matter what happens, not to hold back this match," noted 
senior Chuck Coleman, "And we gave it our best shot." 
Loaded with ranked players, North Carolina challenged the Irish at every singles spot, led by 11th-ranked Roland Thorn­quist who put together a solid performance to dump Notre Dame's 19th-ranked Will Forsyth 6-3, 6-1 in number-one singles. 
But despite the loss at num­ber-one singles, the Irish were able to mount a challenge, as Coleman and Mark Schmidt 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
Interested in reading at the JPW Mass? 
Auditions are on Wednesday, Feb. 3rd & Thursday, February 4th from 4 p.m. -5 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Questions? Call Julie at 4-1321 
both defeated ranked players to help coach Bob Bayliss' cause. 
Coleman was never threat­ened in his 6-3, 6-1 effort against 35th-ranked Woody Webb, and Schmidt, playing number-three singles, downed 21st-ranked David Caldwell 1-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
Senior Ron Rosas also won, toughing a 7-5, 7-5 decision at number-four singles. 
However, the number-five and six singles doomed the Irish, as Chris Wojtalik and Jason Pun dropped their matches. 
Notre Dame's top two doubles teams lost Saturday, as the Tarheels' top combo, made up of Thornquist and Daryl Wyatt, dropped Forsyth and Coleman 8-6, and Schmidt and Wojtalik also lost to Steinoir and Brett Hutton 8-6. 
Home Alone II PG 4:45 Leprechaun R 7:15, 9:30 Hexed R 7:30, 10:00 

The Observer/ Jake Peters Alive R 7:00, 9:45 
Will Forsyth hits an overhead smash during Saturday's top ten clash. Forsyth was dominated at No. 1 singles by Roland Thornquist 6-3, 6-1. 
Center for Social Concerns 
Plan a Meaningful and Interesting Spring Break: 
Spring Break Seminars March 7-13, 1993 Experiential/Service Learning 
APPALACHIASE~NAR 
Service Learning at one of seven sites in the Appalachian region 
One-credit Theology 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Experience diversity Examine related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology 


Applications Available at the CSC Applications Due Tues., Feb. 2 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Gates Toyota 

20% off to all students and faculty when servicing your Toyota at Gates Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Call 2 3 7-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.5 5 
"1/ovewhatyoudojJrme." 
@TOYOTA 


page 14 The Observer Monday, February 1 , 1993 
._,. 
Lake Superior, Ferris State top Notre Dame 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team went on the road this weekend looking to improve their playoff standing in the Central Colle­giate Hockey Association. In­stead. they absorbed two lop­sided defeats. 
Lake Superior State beat the Irish 4-1 an Friday, while Ferris State destroyed Notre Dame 9-3 on Saturday. 
"We had high expectations for an upset at Lake State con­sidering we played so well at home back in October," said Irish junior captain Matt Osiecki. 
LSSU opened the scoring in the first period on a power play goal by sophomore Rob Valice­
vic. However, Notre Dame sophomore Brent Lamppa scored to knot the score 1-1 with 15:00 left in the second period. That would be Notre Dame's only goal as Lake's Darrin Wetherill scored with 
1:30 left in the second period and Dean IIullett scored two goals in the final period to close out the scoring. 
Lake State improved to 18-6­4 on the year and concluded their season sweep of the Irish. 
"We played pretty well," commented Osiecki. "We had a good week of practice and we stayed close throughout." 
"I thought we played well against Lake Superior which gave us optimism for Saturday," proceeded to score four goals into the third period. 

Irish freshman Jaime Ling broke the string with 17:00 left in the game. But Ferris wasn't finished scoring two more goals to close out the scoring. 
"They got off to a big lead, and then we fought back, but we lost our momentum and it was over," said Bankoske. "We needed to improve our playoff position this weekend, but we have time, and we get two more chances to pay Ferris back." 
Throughout the weekend, the Irish committed 20 penalties, 1 including two-ten minute mis-4/ conduct penalties by Bankoske and Bruininks against Ferris. On Saturday, Notre Dame had 
• 13 penalties. "We lost our com­posure and we were probably frustrated," said Schafer. 
The Irish get their chance for redemption next weekend when they face Michigan State in East Lansing on Friday and then The Observer/Steve Durnes play a rematch against Ferris Sophomore Brent Lamppa takes a pass during a game last week. State at home on Saturday. 



SOPHOMORES 
Interested in organizing the most important and exciting weekend of your Junior year? 
Applications for the 1994 JPW CHAIRPERSON are now available at the LaFortune Information Desk . 
Experience not necessary but incentive is. Curious? Pick up an application today. 
DEADLINE-5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 5th t at the student activities office. · 
Questions? Call 1-2068 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions 
Managing Editor 
~pplicants should have strong management and interpersonal skills, a solid base of Macintosh computer knowledge, basic journalistic and editorial skills and some newspaper production experience. Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
k\ny sophomore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, February 5, 1993 at 5 p.m. For more information about these positions, call Managing Editor John Rock at 631-4541 or Business Manager Rich Riley at 631-5313. 
said Irish coach Ric Schafer. 
As for Saturday night, it wasn't close from the outset, as Ferris State broke out to a 3-0 lead before five minutes had expired. FSU's Kevin Smith scored a shorthanded goal to open the scoring 3:14 into the game, and then Mike May scored less than a minute later to make it 2-0. At that point, Schafer made a goalie change by replacing junior Greg Louder with junior Brent Lothrop. " 
We were concerned that Louder might not be able to go two straight games and then they scored two quick goals," explained Schafer. 
The outburst continued 44 seconds later when FSU's Daryl Filipek scored a power play goal to make it 3-0. 
"We had some mental break­downs and played poorly from the start," said Irish senior Dave Bankoske. 
Osiecki made a harsher comment by saying "we played terrible and didn't give our­selves a chance to win." 
The first period ended 3-0, and the Irish tried to comeback at the start of the second pe­riod. Freshman Brett Bruininks scored his sixth goal of the year on a power play with 16:30 remammg. And fellow freshman Jaime Morshead scored his tenth goal of the year to close the gap to 3-2. However, that was the closest Notre Dame would get, as the floodgates opened and Ferris 


PAY FOR
•ill'. 
MEDICAL 
SCHOOL. 
~ Today's Air Fon:e o!le<S a 
scholarship program that can help pay the cost of medical school. If selected, you can contin­ue your present studies-and stop worrying about how to pay for them. Participation is based on competitive selection. For informa­tion with no obligation, talk to an Air Force representative. Call 
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS COLLECT (219) 237-1950 
APPLICATIONS for FRESHMAN ORIENTATION and TRANSFER ORIENTATION COMMISSIONERS and GENERAL COMMITTEES ARE NOW AVAILABLE FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
FORMS SHOULD BE RETURNED BY FRIDAY FEBRUARY 5 
INTERVIEWS WILL BE CONDUCTED ON WEDNESDAY 2/10 and THURSDAY 2/11 
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR WOULD LIKE MORE INFORMATION, PLEA~E CALL STU· 
DENT GOVERNMENT AT 631·7668. OR STOP BY 203 LAFORTUN 

Today 

Monday, February 1 , 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

l. Write a P-aragraph eY-plainin~the s1gniflc.ance ot Ma~llan's expedition. 

BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
A GAS MI\'3K, A '51'1\0I(.E GR£Ht>.DE, 
f>.NI) A \-\Ell COI'TtR .... T\\1>.~ ALl l f>.'SK. 

24 First Family of 42 Annapolis sch. 54 Indigent 
Mexico: 1851-53 45 Cyclone 57 Suit to­25 Confront 48 Seamen ss Purpose 21 Maroons 49 Behave 60 Pound or Stone 28 Moccasins so Celtic poets 61 Onionlike plant 
51 Abreast the 63 Unworn middle of a 64 Jackson and 29 Part of E.S.G. 

31 Bro. and sis ship's side Diddley32 The sun 52 Clutch or catch 65 Hose mishap 
• 

Monday night in the woods 
..... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Appalling 
6 Diamond slats. 10 Genie's abode 14 Hooded jacket 15A Maxwell 16 Seaweed 
gelatin 11 Insomniac's 
relief 18 Clear of blame 20 Overhead 
railways 21 Deposed 22 Wrath 23 Melancholy 
Dane 26 Red head: 1917-24 28 Looked intently 


30 Ruhr city 56 Certain hound 33 Palmer of the 59 Singer Torme links 
62 Restore to office 34 The Bee Gees 
64 Solder, in a way 35 Ratio words 
66 Stupefy39 Bunch 
67 Got by, barely 41 Boast 
68 Very 43 Clan unconventional 44 Furrows 69 Sawbill 
46 List of 10 Ghostlycandidates·· t• ".. ·~ · · .
71 Move stealthily 
47 0 bjector to "nattering nabobs" 

DOWN 49 Anoints, old 
1 Church section style 2 Street of 50 Jerome Hines, screams: 
e.g. 

10/29/2953 If 
3 Bathe and 55 Mary Todd's primpbeau 
4Haw. instrument 
5Swimming
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
distance in a 
pool 6 Variety show 7 Paint bubble 8 Berlin's "Say It 
-So" 9 Nigerian singer 10 Varnish ingredient 
11 Encore 12 Mother: Comb. form 13 Do not rush in dressing 19 Not kept busy 21 hat (trite) 
If you see news happening, call the Observer at 631-7 4 71. Thank You. 



Sports 
Monday, February 1 , 1993 

ICowboys rout Bills for NFL title 


(AP) -It was quicker than anyone could imagine. 
Three seasons ago, the Dallas Cowboys were the worst team in NFL history. Now they're Super Bowl champions and they did it with four of the quickest touchdowns ever. 
That left the 


Buffalo Bills as the first team to lose three straight Super Bowls and the NFC's supermacy intact -nine straight NFL titles, seven in overwhelming fashion, this time 
52-17. Emmitt Smith 
With MVP Troy Aikman throwing for four touchdowns and Charles Haley and Ken Norton leading a defense that forced a record nine turnovers, the Cowboys, the youngest team in the NFL, scored two touchdowns 15 seconds apart in the first period of Sunday's Super Bowl and two more 18 seconds apart in the second. 
That made Buffalo only the second team ever to make it to three straight Super Bowls, the first team ever to lose three straight. 
Two of Aiman's TD passes went to Michael Irvin and one each to Jay Novacek and Alvin Harper as the NFC East won the Super Bowl for the third straight year, a record. The three winners were different -Dallas, Washington and the New York Giants ­but the victim each time was the Bills. 
Notre Dame falls short against UCLA, 68-65 
(AP) -Jim Barrick can breathe a little easier. 
Concern that UCLA would let up after an emotional win over USC last week evaporated when Richard Petruska rebounded a missed 3-pointer by Notre Dame's Monty Williams with 5 seconds left to defeat the Fighting Irish 68-65 Sunday at Pauley Pavilion. 
Harrick, under lire after UCLA (14-5) lost to California at home a week ago, said his team was flat Sunday but pleased to come away with the victory. 
"We were sluggish but will take the win and not look back," he said. You're always concerned after the kind of emotional win that we had (at USC) Thursday night." 


52 17 
MVP Aikman completes perfect story 
·· {AP) ..,;... For Troy Aikman. the setup 
was abnost too perfect, too storybook 
even for nearby Hollywood. 
Here was the golden boy quarterback ··returning to the place where he played 
his college football, leading the Dallas 
Cowboys, America's team, in the Super 
Bowl, America's game. 
Of course he was the MVP. How could 
he not have been? 
Playing in the Rose Bowl where he 
starred With UCLA, Aikman bad a field 
day.on his favorite field. He threw for 
three first•half touchdowns, two within 
·18 seconds; to break the game open. 
Overall, he was 22-for-30 for 273 
yards and .four touchdowns as the 
Cowboys beat the Buffalo Bills 52-17 
Sunday. Itthis three playoff games this 
season; ·Aikman threw for eight touch­
downs and no interceptions. 
His first TD, a 23·yarder to tight end 
Jay Novacek, tied the score in the first 
quarter. 
There was another first -Jimmy Johnson became the first coach ever to win both a national college title and a Super Bowl just three years after he began his pro coaching career with a 1­15 record. For Dallas, it was their third Super Bowl victory, but the first in 15 years. 
The Cowboys won on both sides of the ball. Emmitt Smith, the NFL's leading rusher, ran for 108 yards on 22 carries and Aikman completed 22 of 30 passes for 273 yards without an interception. 
After spotting the Bills an early 7-0 
Notre Dame (8-9) tied the game at 65 with 2:10 left on two free throws by forward Malik Russell. UCLA guard Tyus Edney sank a jump shot and a free throw before Notre Dame called a timeout with 12 seconds left. 
"We wanted to get a 3-point attempt to Ryan Hoover, but he took the ball into traffic and to the help defense of UCLA instead of to the opposite side like we had hoped," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. 
Williams missed the 3-point attempt, and Petruski grabbed the rebound -his lOth of the game -to secure the win. 
"We switched everything outside not to give up a 3-point shot and certainly not foul them," Harrick said. "I liked our rebounding this week. Petruska played hard and with emotion and (center Rodney) Zimmerman has been solid," Harrick said. 
Zimmerman had a career-high eight blocked shots. UCLA outrebounded Notre Dame 42-36, and shot 48.3 percent from the floor to Notre Dame's 40 percent. 
Trailing 35-29 at the half, Notre Dame went on a 13-2 run capped by a basket by Hoover and a steal and layup by forward Malik Russell to go ahead 53-47. 
UCLA forward Kevin Dempsey's second 3-pointer put the Bruins in front 61-57, but a 3-pointer by Notre Dame n Hoover tied it at 63. Russell matched a layup by Petruska before Edney sank his jump shot and free throw to make it 68-65. 
Petruska, a center, had 16 points and Ed O'Bannon and Edney had 13 each to lead UCLA. Williams had 18 points and Hoover had 17 
see HOOPS/page 11 
Then, as the first half reached the two-minute warning, he threw for 18 yards and a TD to Michael Irvin. When DaJlas intercepted Buffalo on the next series, Aikman made the Bills pay for the mistake immediately, nailing Irvin again, this time on a 19-yard TD pitch. 
In the fourth quarter, after Buffalo had narrowed the margin to 31-1 7, Aiken threw his fourth TD pass, hitting Alvin Harper on a 45-yarder to make it 38-17. 
It was the sweet completion of a long trip for the quarterback, who was the No. l pick in the 1989 draft and the whipping boy of a 1·15 Cowboys season that year. 
He was the first piece of the puzzle for Dallas, the cornerstone around which the Cowboys began their reconstruction. Coach Jimmy Johnson has always believed that you start with a strong 
see MVP/page 12 
lead on a TD set up by a blocked punt, the Cowboys turned on the defense, getting five of the turnovers in the first half. 
James Washington's interception against Jim Kelly set up a 23-yard TO pass to Novacek. Fifteen seconds later, Haley knocked the ball loose from Kelly at the goal line to defensive tackle Jimmie Jones, who took two steps into the end zone for the score that put the Cowboys ahead for good. 
see COWBOYS/page 12 


AP Laserphoto Ron Powlus announces his intentions to play for the Irish next season at a press conference Saturday. 
Irish land prep star 
Observer staff report 
High school All-American quarterback Ron Powlus ended months of speculation, verbally committing to Notre Dame over Pittsburgh, Miami and Penn State. 
"Notre Dame has been my No. 1 all along," said the 6-foot-3, 210-pound Berwick, Pa. native. 
Powlus led his team to the Pennsylvania state championship with a 15-0 record. A four-year starter, he compiled a 37-5 record and threw for over 7,500 yards and had a hand in 103 touchdowns. 
The announcement ended one of the most publicized prep recruiting in recent history. At­tention which Powlus enjoyed. 
The decision came down to Pitt and Notre Dame in the last few weeks, after a late push by Pitt's new coach Johnny Majors. 
"I backed off of Pitt because of the uncertainty and the turmoil," said Powlus. "Coach Majors rekindled my interest, but when I finally made my decision, Pitt was a very distant second. I never went back and forth between Pitt and Notre Dame." 
Powlus is the second prep quarterback to commit to the Irish. Earlier this month, Thomas Krug from Los Gatos, Ca. committed. The two high schools stars join Paul Failla and Kevin McDougal in the hunt for the starting job at the helm of the Irish offense. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this article. 





