


Williams emphasizes need to protect youth 
By Brian Posnanski News Writer 

Nobel Peace 
Addressing the turmoil in Northern Ireland, Burma, 


Prize winner
South Africa and China, Betty Williams, co-recipient of the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize, stressed the need for people to 


visits ND 
protect the welfare of children in a speech last night in the By Brian Posnanski Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
News Writer 
entitled "Peace is a Question of Justice." 

Betty Williams' illustrious Williams, the director of the history as a fighter for peace
Global Children's Resource 

and justice made her a natural Center at Sam Houston State choice as a speaker for Notre 
University in Texas, is active Dame, according to Jayworldwide in advancing the Brandenberger, director of cause of human rights in gen­
Notre Dame's Center for Social 
eral and children in particular. Concerns. "We like the Center to have 
In 1976, after seeing three something at the beginning of 

children killed in the streets of the year to prompt us to think Belfast, Williams, a Catholic, 
how our work at the 
organized marches and rallies University should contribute in 

with Maired Corrigan, a some way to justice and 

Protestant, to end the violence peace," Brandenberger said. in Northern Ireland. Her work 
"I couldn't think of a better 
to further the cause of justice speaker."and peace, which earned her Williams was a Belfast and Corrigan the 1977 Nobel But Williams was quick to the plight of children every­homemaker when, on Augustpeace prize, never stopped. point out that violence is a poor where, not just in Northern Ire­10, 1976, she saw a car 
Williams, whose father is answer to oppression, particu­land. In her eyes, the proper careen into three children,Protestant and mother is larly in Northern Ireland. support for children's welfare killing all of them. EnglishCatholic, said her household "Before you talk about justice," is lacking throughout the soldiers had shot and killed its was free from the religious she said, "you've got to hand world. driver, a member of the IRA. friction common to her region. some out. To take my land "We teach [children] hatred," Shocked by what she saw,"For me. working for peace is from saints and scholars... to Williams said. "We teach them Betty Williams organized a just the right thing to do," she gunfire was terrible." misunderstanding. And then march four days later involv­said. "It's amazing what the we kill them by sending them ing 10,000 women. work of peace does. I stood up Stopping violence is hard, ac­off to war... We have to learn The next year, along with because I saw three children cording to Williams, because in Northern Ireland the value co-recipient Mairead Corrigan, killed in a Belfast street." people do not do anything to of the child. Why do you have she was awarded the Nobel Williams later added: "''m still prevent it. "We always take to fight for the right of a child Prize for peace. learning to try and live with action after the fact," she said. that. It just doesn't go away." Williams' speech focused on see LECTURE I page 4 see WILLIAMS I page 4 



Vatican stands firm: opinions will not sway morality 
By DANIEL WAKIN leased Oct. 5. The reported text siastic communion." numerous leaks have emerged Associated Press reflects John Paul's long-stated Reports say the encyclical in the press. Papal spokesman theme that the church is not a calls on bishops to be "vigilant" Joaquin Navarro has dis­VATICAN CITY democracy. against those who part from the counted the reports as based on 
Pope John Paul Il's encyclical Church's doctrine, and that unofficial texts. proclaiming that morality is not According to several news those who violate Church Nevertheless, liberal voices in a matter of opinion has prompt­reports, the pope writes: teaching should be removed the church have been quick to ed dissent from church liberals "Opposition to the teachings from their positions. react. 
even before its publication. of the pastors of the church The document is appropri­
Reports say the document, cannot be seen as a legitimate The encyclical, titled ately addressed to bishops be­despite some liberals' hopes for expression of Christian liberty "Veritatis Splendor" -Latin cause "lay Catholics would sim­changes, does not deviate from or of a diversity in the gifts of for "The Splendor of Truth" -ply stamp it 'Return to the church's longtime bans on the Spirit. has been six years in the mak­Sender,"' said Frances Kissling, contraception, birth control, di­"Dissent, in the form of well­ing and will likely be consid­president of the Catholics for a vorce, abortion, premarital sex orchestrated protests and ered one of John Paul's most Free Choice, an abortion rights and homosexuality. polemics conducted in the mass important achievements. group based in Washington, 
The encyclical will be re-media, is in opposition to eccle-As its publication neared, DC. 
Saint Mary's freshman ballot secured for election 
By NICOLE MCGRATH "I was excited for today to very excited," said Field. "We abstained from the freshman Saint Mary's News Editor come," said Miller. "We really are going to go door-to-door to board vote, said Brogharnmer. need to make sure that those talk to people about the 
Saint Mary's freshman class who voted for us, tell their specifics of our campaign." All eight candidates who ran has narrowed their choices to friends." Miller and Kellogg got Two percent of the freshman for freshman board secured a three presidential/vice­19.5 percent of the vote. class abstained from the presi­spot on it, according to presidential tickets after yester­Field and Augustine received dentiaVvice-presidential vote Broghammer. The freshman day's class elections, according 19 percent of the vote. "We are while 11 percent of the class board are Laura Bossardt, Kelly to Elections Commissioner, Cook, Kristen DiNovo, Cate Elizabeth Broghammer. Freiesleben, Courtney Laden,
SAINT MARY'S ELECTION RESULTS

The three tickets in 
Jennifer Ligda, Laura Loh and Thursday's runoff are: Anna Kathleen Zimmer. Rafaj!Emily Ruffner, Beth Ann According to Broghammer, Miller/Becky Kellogg aDd Leslie 64 percent of the freshman 
Field/Jennifer Augustine. class turned out for the elec­
Rafaj and Ruffner gained 24 tions. percent of the votes, said "I think it was a really good Broghammer. "I think it's turnout and hopefully more will neat," said Rafaj."lt'll give us turn out for the runoff on an opportunity to meet more Thursday," said Broghammer. people and have more people Thursday's elections will be ask us questions about our held during all meals at the campaign." dining hall. 


Safety takes forefront in hall issues 
By KATE CRISHAM News Writer 
Finding ways to improve and enhance campus security was one of the many topics dis­cussed at last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 


Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson answered questions from the council regarding such topics as Safewalk, campus escorts, and cars on campus. 
"We are trying to keep Notre Dame primarily pedestrian, which is why we discourage driving on campus," explained Johnson. "Keeping the campus safe for students is our first priority." 
Still, he noted, "It is not what security does that keeps Notre Dame safe, but the lifestyle choices that students them­selves make." 
The possibility of increasing the patrolling of campus park­ing lots was also discussed. Johnson said that security does "random but regular" pa­trolling, with each lot patrolled approximately every two hours. Some students, howev­er, expressed concern that this amount of patrolling was insuf­ficient. 
"A lot can happen in two hours", said Pasquerilla West President Angie Kerrigan. "The student lots should be pa­trolled, at the very least, every fifteen minutes. The student lots are where the majority of incidents occur, and that is where security should focus the majority of their attention." 
In other matters, Pangborn President Laura Schnorenberg and Stanford President Brett Boessen made a motion to form a committee to study the Weekend Wheels program. Weekend Wheels will be tem­porarily reinstated while the council investigates the possi­bility of a taxi voucher system. 
"Establishing a taxi voucher system will take time," ex­plained Walsh President Maria Capua. "Yet, we feel that HPC has a responsibility to provide weekend off-campus trans­portation for students. Weekend Wheels will serve our purposes until then." 
Sorin Hall Co-Presidents 
Charlie Eppinger and Deitz 
Lefort outlined their plans to 
have a head shaving contest to 
raise money for a Sorin service 
project to Appalachia. 
"Charlie and I will be in 
competition," explained Lefort. 
"Whoever raises the most 
money will shave his head at 
the Sorin Talent Show. If we 
raise more than $3000, we will 
both shave our heads." 
The Talent Show will take 
place on Friday, October 8 
after the pep rally. 
In other matters, Student 
Body Vice President Nikki 
Wellman announced that sign­
ups for Fall Festival '93 will 
take place October 5, 6. and 7. 


page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 29, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Believe file: Telemarketers are people, too 
The City News telemarketers called me again today. I had tried to be patient with these peo­ple before, but this time I had to hang up. Trust me. Hanging up is more merciful than listening and refusing. 
Yes, I used to be one of those dreaded people who called you right in the mid­dle of everything remotely important this summer and tried to sell you something. I was poor and the allure of $9.00 an hour was simply too great-1 quickly joined the well-respected Katie Murphy and admired (sure) ranks News Copy Editor of telemarketers. I fig­ured I could at least try it once. Twenty-two hours a week couldn't be that terrible ... could it? I was sure I could han­dle it. My friends warned me, but did I listen? Of course not. Mistake of mistakes. 


I was assigned to sell long distance phone service. Training was fairly frightening-we watched endless Candice Bergen commercials and I began to spend all of my waking hours studying the millions of calling plans offered by the Big Three of long distance service. I started to dream abou the "first minute, each addition­al minute," "20% discounts to the person you call the most" and "itemized billing." 
By the end of the week, I was definitely going downhill. I thought about phone service all the time. When phone commercials came on TV, I found myself straining to read the fine print at the bottom of the screen so I could refute any customer's objectiosn to my pitch-although usually I just agreed that "yes ma'am, you do indedd have a far superior calling plan than we could ever create and I don't think you should buy my prduct either." 
Unfortunately, my way of dealing with cus­tomers did not win the admiration of my supe­riors. I was told I was not aggressive enough and I should never let the customer go until the third "no." I was assured that I would soon find that people responded more positively to me (somehow this strategy didn't sound right). 
Need I say that I failed miserably? If I hap­pened to make a sale, it was because I hap­pened to add on a tremendous bonus {"Sir, you will receive $100 in free calls each month for enrolling in this plan ... really") or because I was talking to someone's children (once I men­tioned the 24-hour cartoons and free calls to Santa; they were hooked). Supervisors began to hate me and quickly discovered that it was safer to leave me alone and pretend they had no idea what I was doing. 
As the days wore on, I wanted to quit more and more. Unfortunately, my parents weren't quite ready to have me around any more, and I was not-so-subtly told that quitting was out of the question. I had to be a bit creative... Monday morning, "Ellin Murphy" called in for her "seriously ill" daughter, Katie, and I was ofT the hook for that night-but only with work. My parents still thought I was working. 
From that night on, I made it a habit to leave for work as usual (of course after finding some strange, contagious disease to contract). and go everywhere my parents couldn't find me. It really wasn't easy. Eventually I was fired, and I could finally come home. Believe me, it was a reliel1 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production Nancy Dunn Ron Veldman Suzy Fry Kathie Young 
Sports Accent Rian Akey Geraldine Hamilton Viewpoint Lisa Monaco Michael 0' Hara Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan Dave Hungerhling 
The Ob><:rver (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rcproducdon rights arc rcsc:rvcd. 
Palestinians: Between the Israeli rock and the Arab hard place 
BElT JALLA 

The Palestinian owners of the OBG Textile Factory like to show off their latest product: a T-shirt with a portrait of Yasser Arafat. However, about 80 percent of their $300,000 a month in sales is not to Arabs but to Israel: shorts for kib­butz farmers, underwear and socks for department stores, dress­es and track suits for boutiques. 
Economic ties between Israel and the occupied lands are well estab­lished and may be strengthened by the PLO-Israel accord. But rela­tions are complex and both Israelis and Palestinians worry about the economic impact of peace. They can agree on the need to erase the poverty and the 40 percent unem­ployment that is a source of Palestinian violence and terrorism. "A good peace depends on good commerce. Both Arabs and Jews have an interest in a prosperous economy," said Jiris Al-Arja, deputy mayor and main owner of OBG -Oriental Beit Jalla Garments -one of the town's five textile factories. Yet Israel fears competition from OBG's textiles as well as from citrus and other agri­cultural goods grown by low-wage Palestinian workers. Jordan wor­ries that Palestinians who make up 75 percent of the business commu­nity in the kingdom will shift their wealth to the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Palestinians fear being caught in the middle. Dan Propper, head of the Israeli Manufacturers' Association, noted Israel's 11 percent unemployment rate and said the country would have to protect some industries such as textiles, at least initially. 
But he envisions Tel Aviv as a s . dE · p 1. · th M.ddl E AP/K G d
vibrant economic hub. ..1 believe ource: 1nst1tute 1or soc1a. 1an conom1c o1cy 1n e 1 e as1 . u e 
the autonomy could serve as a bridge for export into Arab countries. Israeli technology can be used to produce prod­ucts in the autonomous areas for consumption in the Arab world," he said. Propper said plastic dishes. toys, furni­ture, paper products, gold jewelry and other goods could be jointly made for sale in neighboring Arab states. Samir Huleileh, who administers European Community aid for the occupied lands, said there is a perception in the Arab world "that we Palestinians will be a trojan horse for Israel because we know the Hebrew language and the people and have a relationship already." 
Problems in case of corrupt NYC officer Hungry? Try a cricket cookie 
NEW YORK AMES, Iowa 

The police Internal Affairs Division obstructed its own Pass the salt. And the rootworm beetle dip. The Iowa investigator's probe into crooked officers at a Brooklyn State University Entomology Club is concocting some precinct, the investigator testified today. Sgt. Joseph unorthodox fare for its annual Insect Horror Film Trimboli said that his attempts to get his superiors inter­Festival. The dishes will feature recipes with insects as ested in the 75th Precinct scandal were rebuffed from main ingredients. Fairgoers can sample banana worm 1987 to 1989. Even leverage from a borough commander bread or chocolate chirpie chip cookies. The worm bread didn't help, he said. Trimboli said he had stumbled is described as a traditional banana bread with dry­across allegations against a ringleader, Officer Michael roasted army worms substituted for the nuts. Roasted Dowd, and investigated them on his own. The case crickets are added to the chirpie cookies instead of widened to include 20 to 25 officers before the division chocolate chips. The Entomology Club predicts bug blox declared the investigation closed. In January 1989, a -crickets or meal worms suspended in "colorful fingers month after the investigation was closed, Dowd stayed in of gelatin"-will be the most popular item. For the faint a $500 per-person, per-night resort in the Dominican of stomach, there will be other bug-related activities at Republic. He went there with a former officer who had the festival, which runs from Oct. 6-9. The 1958 and been arrested earlier for armed robbery. The arrest of 1986 movie versions of "The Fly" will be shown. Before Dowd, 32, last year on a raft of federal corruption each film, visitors ean stop to stroke some creepy charges prompted the creation of a mayoral commission crawlies at the insect petting zoo, which boasts a giant to investigate the nation's largest police department. water beetle. 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather~'~~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 29. 

INDIANA Weather 
Wednesday, Sept. 29 Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993Accu·Weather, Inc. 



Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via ABSOCIIJted Press 
Cleveland 7t 56 Paris 55 48 H L 
Dallas 95 72 Philadelphia 68 58 Alhens 86 55 
Jerusalem 82 61 Reno 77 40 Allanta 88 71 
London 52 48 Rome 73 57

Q,~,~A.~Q ~ ~ u 
Los Angeles 76 65 Seoul 72 59Bogota 69 57 

Showers T-storms Rain Flunies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Minneapolis 60 52 Tokyo 77 61 New York 62 52 Washington, D.C. 74 60 Basion 60 50 
Chicago 63 57

Vla Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Saint Mary's will host Cold War days are over for CIA 
myriad of fall activities 
By PATII CARSON 
News Writer 
Troop NO, a hip-hop dance organization that features a performance group as well as instructional classes, was ap­proved as a club by the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) at last night's meeting, according to Student Body 
I:N:ljlllniRn'~=iWMre• 
President Mary Beth Wilkinson. 
The club was approved with 
the stipulation that "sponsored 
by Saint Mary's" will appear on 
all literature distributed by the 
club and announced at all 
Troop ND performances. 
Troop ND club activities in­
clude performances at half­
time during Notre Dame bas­
ketball games and at events 
like the St. Edward Hall's 
Carnival during An Tostal . 
Troop ND is also planning a 
road trip to a high school in 
LaPorte, Ind. on October 7. A 
representative from the club 
discussed the possibility of a 
talent show for both the Saint 
Mary's and Notre Dame cam­
puses. • 
In other business: 
•BOG discussed whether they should sponsor the Women's Care Center as a service pro­ject. The center, which recently contacted Saint Mary's to in­crease its volunteer pool, is a crisis pregnancy service that provide care and counseling. 

The service project would be more personal if they left it in the hands of residence halls, according to Wilkinson. The center hopes that Saint Mary's residence halls will adopt them as a philanthropy for the semester. 
•Saint 
Mary's Senior Dad's Weekend begins Friday. Volunteers are needed to work as casino dealers from 7 to noon in Angela Athletic Facility. Volunteers should contact Director of Student Activities Georgeanna Rosenbush for more information. 

•Multicultural 
Week will be Oct. 4 to 8. The week will be sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs. It includes an International Food Night on Oct. 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Haggar College Center. The food will be provided by cam­pus clubs and by Hacienda restaurant. There will also be a band performance and a cul­tural fashion show. 

•Midwest 
flood relief packing was successful, according to Spiritual Life Commissioner Jen Moore. Volunteers are still needed over October break. For more information, contact Campus Ministry. There will be no 4:30 Mass this week in Le Mans Hall due to Fall Day on campus, Moore added. 




Special guest speaker Peter Bloch on Puerto Rican Experience 
& 

Puerto Rican singer (~'artn.en Lucca 
Date: September 29 Place: The LaFortune Ballroom Time: 7:00 pm 
There will be a free reception in The Ballroom afterwards. 
By RUTH SINAI imagery, showing the areas Associated Press affected by the recent flooding. Last year the CIA shared its WASHINGTON highly sensitive satellite infor­
The details of 11 covert oper­mation with disaster relief op­ations conducted by the CIA erations after Hurricane during the Cold War may soon Andrew. be made public as part of the The agency doesn't provide spy agency's effort to widen ac­raw footage in order to protect cess to U.S. intelligence. the exact capability of its satel­
CIA Director James Woolsey lites, and also because the im­told the House Intelligence ages are harder to interpret, Committee on Tuesday that he said an agency official who had ordered the declassification spoke on condition of anonymi­review of several covert opera­ty. tions that were undertaken by Still, the spy satellites provide the CIA 30 years ago or more. far sharper imagery than that 
These included U.S. activities available to the government to block communism in France from commercial or weather and Italy; support for satellites. Indonesian rebels in 1958; sup­The voluminous satellite port to Tibetan guerrillas in the archives could soon have an­1950s and early 60s; operations other civilian use. against North Korea during the A joint commission of scien­
Korean war; and operations in tists, CIA and Pentagon officials Laos in the 1960s. is about to complete a report 
Woolsey said the intelligence­recommending ways in which sharing effort includes such spy satellite data can be made projects as providing spy satel­available for environmental re­lite data for Midwest flood relief search. The report is due in a 
efforts. few weeks. 
The CIA gave the U.S. But most of the CIA's planned Geological Survey computerized secrets sharing relates to the drawings, based on satellite past. Still, several lawmakers expressed concern that releas­ing records of 30-year-old covert operations could strain relations with foreign nations. 
But Woolsey assured the committee that the administra­tion would take foreign-policy implications into consideration before releasing such records. 
David Gries, the director of the review process, told the panel that the operations have all been written about, some­times by former agency offi­cials. 
The governments involved as well as the State Department knew the documents were planned for release, he said. 
The review is likely to take at least two years, said an agency official, because of a backlog of other historical documents slat­ed for declassification. 
Work was only recently start­ed on the declassification ordered by Woolsey's prede­cessor, Robert Gates, of records pertaining to CIA support for coups in Guatemala and Iran in the 1950s, as well as on the Bay of Pigs and other agency operations in the Dominican Republic and the Congo. 



LA riots: Denny case nears end 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Jurors can see for themselves that two men charged with beating Reginald Denny are the same ones in the videotape that has come to symbolize the 1992 riots, a prosecutor said in clos­ing arguments Tuesday. 
"We have seen that video­tape. It is burned in our brains. We all know what happened to Reginald Denny," Deputy Dis­trict Attorney Janet Moore told the jury 
"You saw Henry Watson put his foot on (Denny's) neck and hold him to the ground, and Damian Williams threw the brick," Moore said. 
The two black men are charged with attempted mur­der and other felonies in the at­tack on Denny, a white truck 

Maple Lane Barber Shop 
serving the Notre Dame community for over 32 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin's) 
272--6722 

IF WE GAVE YOU ANY 



MORE FOO~.YOU COULD 
FEED AFKRTERNITY. 
Ultimate Platter $3.99/Spaghetti and Meatballs, Fettucine Alfredo and Manicotti 
Free unlimited breadsticks with dine-in orders 

Real Italian. Real Fast 

317 W. McKinley, Mishawaka/255-2551/52770 U.S. Rt. 33N/277-4008 
L__ ---------­
driver, at a South Central Los Angeles intersection where the riots began on April 29, 1992. 
The attack was videotaped from a news helicopter, and the tape came to symbolize the riots, much as the videotape of black motorist Rodney King's beating by white policemen be­came an earlier symbol of po­lice brutality. 
Defense attorneys maintain Williams and Watson are the victims of mistaken identity. 
But Moore said Watson was the one in a T-shirt reading "Hooker's Bar and Grill" that stood out like a "neon sign on his back." 
The closing arguments came a day after jurors in a separate trial convicted a 19-year-old of first-degree murder in the riot­related beating death of a San Fernando Valley man. 
Traville James Craig, 19, of North Hollywood, faces a sen­tence of life in prison without parole in the death of Elias Garcia, 32, who was beaten with a board during an at­tempted robbery on April 30, 1992. 
54 people died during rioting in Los Angeles following the acquittals of four white police officers on state charges in the King beating. Two of the po­licemen were later convicted in federal court and sentenced to 30 months in prison. 
Moore made a point of men­tioning to the racially mixed jury that black residents of South Central Los Angeles risked their lives to save Denny and others, and that in some cases the rescuers themselves came under attack. 
"Without the heroics and bravery of these people, Regi­nald Denny would have died," Moore said. 


Happy Birthday Kelly 
Hope college is going well! Love, Mom, Dad & Pat 

The Observer 
Interested in writing for Accent? Already signed up to be an Accent Reporter? 
Whatever the case may be, 
You 're Invited! 
Accent Reporter meeting and traing sessions Thursday, Sept. 30 7:00PM 3rd floor LaFortune 

page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 1993 

Tourist violence: possible federal offence Judge bars Navy from 
By PETE YOST commerce for the U.S. Travel Under such a law, the federal Associated Press and Tourism Administration. government could pay expenses 

discharging gay officer 
two American politicians ments," Williams said sarcasti­
Williams also pointed out that
changed U.S. policy towards cally. "They've got a reason for 
the abuse of children is not
Ireland drastically. everything. Right now, when 
confined to distant countries: of
In 1979, the Republic of Ire­the Chinese government says 
30-million hungry people in this 
land named Williams Woman of 'jump,' the world governments 


The Observer
country, 12-million are chil­
the Year "for her tireless effort say, 'how high?' and 'how long dren.
to bring peace "to Ireland's do you want us to stay up?'" shores." China, which still conducts 
"Waving a flag is not
mass public executions and 
Circulation Drivers Needed 
nationalism," Williams said.
secret trials, currently enjoys
Bo aplnst 

"Nationalism belongs in your
Support 

"Most Favored Nation" econom­
the grain. 

heart, not in a flag. Show 
For Friday Afternoons 
ic status with America. 

democracy not in your flag­
the 

waving, but by caring whether 

1:30-3:30
Burma is a much worse hu­

the fellow next door has a loaf
man rights offender, said
American 

of bread on his table." 
Williams. In the past few years 
"But above all," Williams con­
she has worked for the release 
This is a paid position. 
Heart 

cluded, "look at what you can
of Nobel Peace Laureate Aung 
do to help the children, because 
San Suu Kyi, who defeated 
they desperately, desperately,
Association 

Burma's 40-year-old military 
desperately need you." 
Contact Joe Riley at 634-1780 
regime in free elections. She 
THE NAIL STUDIO 
AT 



THE CASTLE 



2<nights of Columbus 
Special ~·~ SetofNails ~_-/ 

Open to all Students, Faculty and Staff of the Roman 
Reg. $55 JUS( $4 5 f!j/F 
with Student 10 expires: 10/7193 


Catholic Faith 
Just Minutes from Campus 
•272-0312• 
S.R. 23 at Ironwood • 54533 Terrace Lane 


•When*: 
Wednesday the 29th of September, 7:00-lO:OOpm Thursday the 30th of September, 7:00-lO:OOpm 

• 
Where: The Knights of Columbus Building located 


next to the Bookstore 
115 w. Colfax South Bend Indiana 
*Anyone that is interested but unable to attend is invited to call631-7018 for more infonnation. 
Reservations (219) 288-1155 
REFRES~ENTS~LLBESERVED 

C>pei'-I I<>"'-I.se
N.D./ S.M.C. J.D. =P.O. 

(Notre Dame or Sl. Mary's College ldenliflcalion Equals a Free Desen.) OFFEH EXCLUDES FOOTBALL AND PARENTS WEEKENDS 
WASHINGTON 
Violence against foreign tourists should be designated a federal crime, congressmen said Tuesday as they urged quick action to stem attacks like the murders of German and British travelers in Florida. 
"We're all in this together. We've got to take decisive ac­tion," Florida's commerce sec­retary, Greg Farmer, told Reps. Jim Bacchus and Neil Abercrombie and two dozen businessmen on an International Marketing Study Group set up by Congress. 
President Clinton is expected to nominate Farmer next month as undersecretary of 

Williams 
continued from page I 
In the years following her award, Williams met with Queen Elizabeth about the behavior of British troops in Ireland and also talked with House Speaker Tip O'Neill and Senator Edward Kennedy. Williams' meetings with the 

The study group, chaired by Bacchus, agreed to promote the idea of federal assistance through a Traveler Protection Act. 
Such a law would be an "added deterrent" to the vio­lence against travelers from overseas, enabling the federal government to help state and local authorities wage success­ful prosecutions, said Bacchus, D-Fla., and Abercrombie, D­Hawaii. 
Abercrombie's office circu­lated a tentative draft of legisla­tion to make anyone engaging in a state crime of violence against a foreign visitor "guilty of a like offense against the United States." 
so that foreign travelers could be brought back to the United States to testify about violent crimes against family members or travel companions, said Abercrombie. 
Rep. George Gekas, R-Pa., would go even further. He in­troduced legislation Tuesday to establish a federal death penal­ty for killing a foreign tourist. 
The study group embraced a package of deterrents ­Clinton's crime proposals with 50,000 additional police offi­cers, a White House conference on tourism, and legislation to get guns out of the hands of ju­veniles "who are at the heart of so much of this problem," said Bacchus. 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A federal judge barred the Navy from discharging a ho­mosexual submarine officer on Tuesday, saying that the man admitted he was gay only after President Clinton indicated the 
military's  rules  would  be  
changed.  
Lt.  U.g.)  Richard Selland  

"made the statement about his homosexuality, not for broad­casting on television but in the company of his chaplain to his commanding officer," U.S. District Judge Louis Oberdorfer ruled. 
The judge said Selland was seeking to have his commander do something about the taunts he was receiving from his ship­mates and "in part because of public statements by the presi­dent of the United States." 
Selland was stationed aboard the USS Hammerhead at the Navy base in Norfolk, Va. when he talked to his commander on Jan. 21, the day after Clinton's inauguration. 
The judge likened hi.m to "a sparrow caught in a badminton game" because he was per­forming his duties well despite the jibes from his shipmates. 
Selland was ordered off the ship by his commander, Karl Hasslinger, and he has been on shore duty ever since. 
The Navy notified Selland he would be transferred on Sept. 30 to the inactive reserve, an action that would end the young officer's pay and al­lowances. On Oct. 1, a new "don't ask, don't tell" policy goes into effect for homosexu­als in the military. 
Barring the transfer to the inactive reserve, Oberdorfer said it is likely that on that date or soon after "the other shoe will automatically drop" and Selland would be finally dis­charged. ­
"Nothing but a few hours stands in the way of his final discharge from the Navy, com­plete with the unhelpful and, to many, ignominious notation on an otherwise honorable dis­charge: GRB (homosexuality admissi~n.)" the judge wrote. 

Lecture 
continued from page I 

to live? Wouldn't you think it's an inalienable right?" 
Williams also drew attention to the need for governments to change their policies, particu­larly toward China and Burma. "Try working with govern­has also recorded teshmony from Burmese children about the abuses of the military regime and related her records to President Clinton. 
When Williams described the plight of some Burmese chil­dren she interviewed, she asked, "Would you like to scream for that child? I do. That's what I have to tell you, because that would help you help them." 

Gas explosion kills more than 50 in Venezuela 
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS pageS 



1,500 Cubans incur deportation 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK Cuba will remain in segregation their U.S. prison sentences. Associated Press while the rest will be returned They are still incarcerated be­to their cells, officials said. cause they have been declared 
WASHINGTON The special precautions were deportable, he said. 
An estimated 1,500 Cuban taken to prevent uprisings that The security arrangements inmates in federal prisons will have occurred in the past Tuesday morning were dis­be repatriated, Justice among Cubans opposed to re­cussed by Bureau of Prisons Department officials said turning to their homeland run and Immigration and Tuesday, adding they had taken by Fidel Castro, according to Naturalization Service repre­steps to guard against rioting Justice Department spokesman sentatives, along with Associate by prisoners angered by the Carl Stern. Attorney General Webster move. Hubbell, Stern said. 
All 4,500 Cuban inmates be­"We didn't want them react­The repatriation program ing held in federal prison were ing to prison gossip," Stern said began in 1984 through an briefly segregated from the in explanation of the pre-dawn agreement between the U.S. general prison population action taken at 37 institutions and Cuban governments. Tuesday while those who would nationwide. "We have an understanding be sent back to Cuba were told The prisoners were taken with the Cuban government to of plans to repatriate them, of­from their cells and told what continue that effort," Stern ficials said. would happen, after which said, adding that he did not 
The only inmates to be sent those who are not to be repa­know exactly when that un­home under the U.S.-Cuba triated to Cuba were sent back derstanding was reached. agreement would be those who to their cells, Stern said. After the 1984 agreement, a arrived on the 1980 Marie! The largest single gathering list of 2,7 46 potential repatria­boatlift and later committed se­of Cuban inmates are the 200 tion candidates was drawn up, rious crimes in America, said at Leavenworth, Kan., followed but only 1,116 were eventually Justice Department spokesman by 100 at Lompoc, Calif., Stern returned to Cuba following ap­Carl Stern. said. peals to the Cuban Review 
The estimated 1,500 prison­The Cubans to be sent home Panel made up of BOP and INS ers who will be returned to are those who have completed representatives, he said. 
Hard-liners succutnb to violence 
By DEBORAH SEWARD deadline and said Boris Yeltsin At least two people were ar­Associated Press had no intention of using force. rested and several people had The ultimatum triggered a minor injuries. MOSCOW protest by about 3,000 hard­
President Boris Yeltsin tried line demonstrators, some of Yeltsin has ruled out com­to break the nerve of defiant whom tried to break through promise with his opponents, hard-line lawmakers Tuesday, police lines and then march and the deployment of more surrounding the Russian par­near parliament, beating on troops stepped up the war of liament with thousands of riot cars, throwing rocks at riot po­nerves with the increasingly police and troops in his biggest lice and building a barricade demoralized and isolated law­
By VIVIAN SEQUERA 
Associated Press 
TEJERIAS, Venezuela 
A natural gas pipeline ex­ploded beneath a busy highway during rush hour Tuesday, en­gulfing a passenger bus and cars in flames and killing at least 50 people. 
The pipeline apparently was ruptured by a state telephone company crew laying filler optic cables, officials said. 
"It was like a stream of fire that leapt to the sky," said Alberto Jose Galeno, a passen­ger in a truck on the other side of the highway. He spoke from his hospital bed. 
The state news agency Venpres said 50 people died and 40 were injured in the ex­plosion, which occurred shortly before 8 a.m. (EDT) on the Central Regional Highway in this town 30 miles southwest of the capital Caracas. 
Firefighter Rodolfo Guilarte, citing interviews with rescue workers at the scene, said at least 51 people died. 
Thirty-eight bodies were re­covered, according to Capt. Egui Martinez of the Aragua state fire department. The ac­tual toll may be higher, he said, because some bodies may have burned completely. 
"The people were de­
stroyed .... They are putting the remains in bags with numbers, and will try to identify them at the morgue. Everybody was completely burned," said AP photographer Diego Giudice. 
The heat from the explosion was so intense that Jesus Hernandez, a truck driver, suf­fered first degree burns on his face and hands even though he was 200 yards away from the blast. 
"There was a big flash. The windshield broke. I ran," Hernandez said. 
A phone company truck was flipped over by the explosion, but the driver survived. The telephone company declined to comment on the accident. 








show of force yet. across a main street. makers who have been holed
"When 1heard Clarissa was giving a 

Trucks and barbed wire up in the parliament building ­blocked roads leading to the Shouting "Shame!" and the Russian White House ­parliament building. Senior "Death to Yeltsin!," the protest­since Yeltsin dissolved parlia­
party, 1 felt 1 couldn't not come . . . " 
-Virginia Woolf, Mrs. Dalloway 

Interior Ministry officials ers marched past the U.S. ment a week ago, on Sept. 21. 
barked through loudspeakers, Embassy, stopping at an under­Many lawmakers were de­ordering the lawmakers and pass where three young men serting the hard-line cause to their supporters to surrender died during the August 1991 work in Yeltsin's administra­their weapons and leave the hard-line coup attempt. tion. More than 200 deputies building by Wednesday. Hundreds of police in full riot are negotiating job offers with gear and armed with shields the government, which set up
at 

But top presidential aides dispersed the crowd, which an employment office for law­later backed off the 24-hour threw rocks at the troops. makers and their staff. 
Warmly outfitted in rain gear, police ignored appeals by the less-well equipped defenders to come over to their side. Both

Nanovic Center for European Studies 
sides stood watching each other in a drenching rain. 

St. Mary's 
Yeltsin ordered December elections for a new parliament in an attempt to end a bitter
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 
power struggle with parliamen­tary hard-liners over his politi­

Students and Faculty interested in 
participating in recently inaugurated center: 
8 p.rn. -Midnight 
cal and free-market reforms. He has called for presidential 
elections in June. 

Meeting TODAY
~# 
The standoff appeared to be 
taking its toll on the nerves of



\(()i}~~ True North 

Wednesday September 29 
police as well. "It's about time we start

4:30PM 
shooting," one officer said, as
Come celebrate the beginning of our 
the police force withdrew into a

207 DeBartolo 
third season! 
large courtyard. 





The Observer
UNIVERSITY SERVICE 
is now accepting applications 
Only Minutes From Campus 
for the following paid positions: 

17955 S.R. 23/Ironwood 
RODUCTS 277~ 1970 
Graduate Page Editor 
~---------------~r---------------,
1 t.upto5qts.Ch~vr~noil $129511 r-r.une..-Up 1• Notre Dame graduate student interested in editing a weekl 
Z.Front End Lubncauon I 1 I I VISA 
page focusing on graduate issues. 
b.Oil Filter I Includes· 

14 . Ch k & F"llI B k FlUl.d Coupon expires 10/31/93 I I . (,(. I
ec Starhng
ra e Mos< cars and Uglu trucks 

IS.Inspect All Suspension & Steenng !'arts I 11 Plugs I WliiiiiJiJ 


College Page Editor 
I6.Check Windshield Washer Level I I • at I [Wit] I7.Check Coolant 112.Adjust Timing I 18.Check Differential I lj Ad· C b I~ 
A Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student interested in editing a 
J9.Check & Fill Power Steering Fluid I 1 · JUSt a~ orator lliliiiil 110.CheckTransmissionFluid II(where apphcable) $3995 I 
page examining other campuses. Ill.Check & Inflate Tires I I Coupon expires 10/31/93 I 1 12.1nspect Parking, Tail, Turn & Brake Lights .J L Varu ~'Tr:b Extra .J 
Please submit a resume and personal statement to David 
Kinney by Friday, October 1. Call 631-4542 ifyou have 
~------------------------------­

We employ A.S.E. Certified Master Mechanics 
questions about either position. 
·------------~---------~--------------~------­






VIEWPOINT 
page 6 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
K<Vin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Ediror ................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager .................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor ............. jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer i5 the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du l...ac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rori:d< represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the auchors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  



LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Beeli owes apology for 'inaccurate view' 
Dear Editor: His presumption that species munity for using them as 

I feel compelled to rebut which evolve from others are pawns in his ceaseless tirade Pieder Beeli's letter (The "better" than their predeces­against evolution. Both Mr. Observer, Sept. 27) as it implic­sors could indeed be construed Beeli and I are white, and to itly labels me as a racist. If evo­as evidence that evolution is a profess that we know anything lution is truly a racist theory, racist theory_ about racism and then use it to then those who subscribe to it Unfortunately this is an our advantage is inexcusable. must surely be racists. assertion not made by evolu­
tion. Evolution is not a linear Mr. Beeli should apologize to 

What most frightens me progression of species. the readers of this paper for about Mr. Beeli's letter is the Moreover different is not the attempting to mislead them by use of emotionally charged same as better. If you are not presenting an inaccurate view issues such as racism to yet equipped to distinguish these of evolution. Mr Beeli owes the again play on peoples fears differences, it is easy to be Notre Dame administration an while making a pitch for a swayed. apology for accusing them of young earth and the error of pursuing a Godless. scripturally modern science concerning this So using the banner cry of unsound agenda. and associated issues. racism, Mr. Beeli tells us all to 
throw out evolution. He also Mr. Beeli owes the Notre 

This ploy is strikingly similar claims Peter Herrs and himself Dame student body an apology to that used by the Institute for have discovered the truth, and for asserting that they can't dis­Creation Research. They prey it shouldn't be open to debate. cover a personal sense of truth upon people's scientific illitera­Further, he asserts that Notre through meaningful teaching cy and use this to convince Dame has strayed wildly from and dialogue but rather they them of what they want to this truth and is in dire need of should be subject to what Notre believe in-an Earth less than reexamining its stance. Dame (or Mr. Beeli) believes to 10,000 years old, without evo­be the truth. this idiosyncratic Dear Editor: array; "panorama," perhaps?) ~ lution. These are pretty bold state­truth not open for debate. Having occasionally had rea­And, worst of all, "My door is 
ments and chillingly reminis­son to wonder where and why always open to any student 
These people completely bas­cent of other figures from histo­Ultimately the biggest apology Notre Dame locates some of its who has a need to communi­tardize the scientific process as ry who also claimed to be tuned is the one Mr. Beeli owes him­administrators, I was struck by cate, or who just wants to talk." they claim to know the answer into the truth: one of the more self, for his belief that his sense the remarks attributed to the What, one wonders, differenti­before they fairly evaluate the recent ones perishing on a of the truth is the only correct vice-president for student ates a "communication" from a data. They then distort and ranch in Waco, Texas and a one as this greatly hinders his affairs, Patricia O'Hara, in a "talk," and when did a talk convolute the data in such a more distant one responsible ability to explore Cod's universe recent issue of Scholastic (Sept. become "just [a] talk," as way as to make it fit the young for the Holocaust. with the sense of wonderment 23, 1993). opposed to "communication," 
earth model in which they and awe it deserves. While I want to take Prof. which apparently is something believe. Granted such an analogy may O'Hara's abilities vis-a-vis stu­more august and profound. be extreme, but these tragic Because everything he exam­dent affairs on trust, I am Of the essential banality of 
A classic case of this is events resulted from claims of ines must fit his predetermined astonished by the string of almost everything asserted in Akridge: his assertion of a knowing the truth and closing conclusions he is incapable of ungrammatical constructions, this interview I make no men­shrinking sun in 1980, and his the matter to debate as Mr. meaningful dialogue concern­errors in diction, and jar­tion beyond contending the subsequent attempt to use this Beeli suggest Notre Dame does. ing this wonderful earth God gonized redundancies attrib­remarks are banal. 
uted to her. If we who presume to teach
assertion as proof for a young has given us. earth. Akridge unprofessionally Indeed, there are apologies in Among them: "Teaching and others casually utter in such a seized on a small, unexamined order. Mr. Beeli should apolo­ROB DEHAAN research is what the university fashion as this, what dare we 
observation by others and used gize to all proponents of evolu­Physics Graduate Student is all about' (emphasis added)." expect of our students, regard­it to suit his purpose. tion for labelling them as (No comment needed, I hope.) less of our "faith" or our "sens­racists. "Residence life is a panoply of es of humor?" Likewise Mr. Beeli has used student life issues." (A LESLIE H. MARTIN an erroneous interpretation of He should apologize to Notre 'panoply' is a full suit of armor Department of English evolution to suit his purpose. Dame's African-American com-or, by extension, any gorgeous 

DOONESBURY 
YEAH, I'VE GOT
YOU5UR& 
A EJI(j III!Tl3R.VIW
YOUHAV/3 
7VN161{T. EJUT
TOGO, 
YOU 6U'tS HAVE
MARK~ 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IJ.Jl3U,,I A UTll-&'f HEY, I 
YOU U5TEN, I'VE ALIIJAYS HOP/5Wl3 MAY577U-HAVeA 
GOT HlJG(£1) YaJH!3WJ HtlPWA wrmFt6UR& our, 
7HAT AN060Xlf3YI3. ARe ume... BUTI t#!RNW ON/3 
R/6HT. YOU 5TIU-(£)MFO!<T­AEJU W17H !HAT? 

\ 

"Losing my virginity was a career move. " -Madonna, entertainer 
-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 



~----~---~~~-------~~-~-­
ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 page 7 
STRAIGHT OUTTA 'WAKA 
Drugs, rock -n-roll, 
and giant soft tacos 
There comes a time in every person's life when they must embark on a spiritual jour­ney. On June 23, 1993, I took off the sack­cloth, loaded up the mule, and made the trek to Shoreline Amphitheater in Mountain View, California to feel the healing power of Lollapalooza. If by chance you should ever go, you will see that it is a joyous place-a 


cultural utopia where people join hands, chanting "Legalize!" and "Save the Humpback Whales!" For you skeptics,  Kris Kazlauskas Accent columnist  
allow me to recount the experience that  
has left me with a perpetual warm fuzzy.  -------­ 

The journey there required that I pick up an old friend. Ayman (pronounced Eye-Man), the crazy Egyptian, was my companion for this event, along with my brother and his girl­friend who were making peculiar slurping noises in the"back seat. Ayman journeyed down from Berkeley via BART (Bay Area Rapid Transit). Arriving at the station, I was just in time to rescue him from the tag team assault of two Mormon missionaries. With his Islamic faith intact, he thanked me, and we made tracks for that Special Place. 
At first glance, Lollapalooza appeared like a dream world. Where else could I invest in a five-dollar "Giant Soft Taco," buy aura-reading crystals, and take a simulated acid trip? While I found the pamphlets on "The Many Uses of Hemp" to be intel­lectually stimulating, I had to admit that my reason for going was the music. With the concert about to start, Ayman and I headed for the lawn. 
Rage Against the Machine started things off with their song, "Bombtrack." Rage is defmitely not what I would call a "happy" band, and the anger in Zack de Ia Rocha's voice had me raising my fist in a display of youthful rebellion while I sang the lyrics and banged my head. Babes in Toyland followed with a con­glomeration of noise that only a die-hard girl grunge-metal group junkie could love. 
Not too impressed with the Babes, I decided to wander around. Working my way to the end of the lawn, I was repeat­edly asked if I had any illegal substances that I was willing to sell. Well, I was flattered that these people thought I was a dope fiend, but I had to apologize and tell them that I was just a simple Catholic kid who had always lived by the motto, "Hugs-Not Drugs." 
As I reached the end of the lawn, I saw someone performing on the side stage. The closer I got, the more this singer looked like MeatLoaf. He was moaning more than singing, but behind him I saw the true expression of freedom in America. There was a ghostly pale woman who was butt-naked with bits of Saran Wrap attached to her body. She danced around the stage like a belly dancer, and all I could think of was how proud her parents must have been, and whether or not she had remem­bered to put on sunscreen. 
I returned in time to see Arrested Development, and was thoroughly enchanted with their musical abilities. Fishbone was their usual happy self, and their lead singer did the naked bit too. One moment he had his clothes on, the next moment he was naked. It was truly a day of breaking free from the chains of cotton. I went as far as taking off my shirt to catch some rays, but just didn't have the courage to lose those embarrass­ing tan lines. Alice in Chains kicked some serious butt, and Primus finished off the show with a spunky performance. 
By the end of the day, I was exhausted, hungry, and nau­seous from the hanging stench of sweat-drenched mosh pit monsters who had left their Speed Stick at home. Yet, that is part of the experience, and if Lollapalooza comes around next year, you can bet that I'll be there-Saran Wrap and all. 
Kris Kazlauskas is a columnist for the Accent page every third Wednesday. 
Interested in writing for Accent? Already signed up to be an Accent re1porter? Whatever the case may be, 
You're invited: 
Accent Reporter meeting and training sessions Thursday, September 30 
7:00 p.m., 3rd floor LaFortune 

A DINING TRADITION 
~.--, ...... 
'-----:c~.-:...:::::::·=~~;:::=~=;r-.-"1 
::····:.::::::~I 
"·'1 ~ 

The university cafeterias have instituted many improvements as a result of student surveys. One of the new features is the grab-n-go meal, here served by Kay Blasko. 
New variety spices up dining hall meals 
By KATIE MURPHY the self-serve format to all of its "It's convenient and the se­Accent Writer bars, as a result of the pasta lection is good. The people will bar's success. give you the food you want , " 
The "Year of the Customer" "It went over so well, so now said Jeanne Navagh, a at North and South Dining Halls we are doing it on all the bars. Pangborn freshman. is just one step closer to chang­It has saved us on food waste The pasta bar is also popu1ar ing the whole format of the also," said Riggs. with students. facilities. Eventually, the dining The recent additions and "It's probably the best thing halls may be organized in a changes at the dining halls they have on a regular basis, way similar to mall foodcourts. appear to have been well re­but somehow the lines are get­
"The long term goal is to add ceived by students, according to ting longer" said Cavanaugh more choices and to get away Riggs. Although some of the sophomore Raf Gonzalez. from the day to day rotation," lines are longer than last year, Kara Courtois, a junior in said Jill Riggs, manager of students seem to be handling Lewis, agrees. North dining hall. the wait. "The pasta bar is great except 
Notre Dame Food Services the lines are really long," said worked with a student advisory "The biggest problem is the Courtois. group and survey results to long lines in certain areas, but I While Courtois likes North for modify the dining hall menu have not heard very many com­the Italian menu, she goes to and format to its current status. plaints" said Riggs. South for the salad bar. 
Improvements include a daily The new "grah-n-go" feature Food Services conducts sur­grill line which offers hamburg­often gets backed up at rush veys twice a year, in order to ers, chicken patties, and french times. This improvement allows gauge student opinion of the 
fries, as well as a spice rack students to pick up a box lunch food selection, atmosphere, and featuring ten spices. Orange between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. service. The first survey will juice was added to lunch and when they do not have time eat come out right before fall dinner and fruit carts and at the dining hall. break, according to Riggs. 
frozen yogurt toppings were also introduced. 
South and North, however, do offer several different features. South has a daily hot food bar, which features corn, rice, egg rolls, pasta, chili, and the soup of the day. The salad bar and fruit selection is also more extensive. 
North features "Pastaria", a self-serve bar with a number of different sauces, pastas, and desserts. According to Riggs, students can chose from meat, marinara, fetuccine, and spaghetti sauce to put on either shells, linguini, mostacolli, or spaghetti. Lasagne is available as well. A special Italian dish is also offered each week. This week, North is featuring spicy Italian spaghetti. The new Italian recipes were chosen from a group of restaurant dishes and various cookbooks. 
"We offer fresh grated Parmesan cheese at the Pastaria, and special desserts. We have crusty Italian bread and garlic bread. The salad bar is more of an antipasto bar, with romaine lettuce for a Caesar salad and some home­made salad dressings," said Riggs. 
North has recently extended 


-
,. 
r--------·p•ag._e..B....,____,.______________=--=T=h-e=O-b-se-~...e-r=~-C-LA-·-S-S-IF-IE_D_S-----~~-~----Wi-e-dn-e-sda-y.-S-eptembe<29, 1993 
' 
The Observer accepts classilic:ds every business day from I 0 a.m. ro 3:30 p.m. at the 
Norre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 P..m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All clas.,fic:ds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per char.~eter per day, including all spaces. 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII  8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE  NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  MBA STUDENT SEEKS 2 TICK­ PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
NOTICES  Individuals and Student Organizeations wanted to promote  Orange County to Chicago 1 0/21 Chicago to Orange County 1 0/24  Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201­217-0030 (W) 201-992-8700  ETS FOR FAMILY TO USC GAME. PLEASE CALL RICH X-4-4499  
the Hottest Spring Break  Only $333/each round trip  Hey Off-campus seniors ....  
Typing  Destinations. call the nation's  Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643  Need GA's to any Home Game  Need FSU Stu. & Ga's Eric x1087  
287-4082  leader. Inter-Campus Programs  x1515 all hours  232-1852  The PW talent show needs youll  
1-800-327-6013  I NEED GA'S FOR PITT,USC & BC  
GENERAL MEETING Sunday 330  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  NICKX1777  We are having it on Thursday, Sept  
p.m. (Erik 634-3107/Kelly 289-4063)  WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  Need 1 USC G.A.I  30 in Theodores ....  
glnd/smc po 194 NO IN 46556.  TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s  
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  days includes 12 meals $279!  Call Karen at 4-4987.  NEED UP TO 6 USC GEN. ADM.  It's big time now so get your acts  
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS  FOR MORE INFO.  Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  TIX. PLEASE CALL KATHY COL­ together and call Jen Marten at 634­ 
RUNNING AND EATING PAN­ Cancun from Chicago $439,  Need FSU stud tix  LECT (301) 737-5520.  2706 to sign upllll  
CAKES. DOMER RUN -SA TUR­ In need of a business statistics  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  call Aaron @ 272-341 8  
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  tutor, will pay$. Call Deanna  West $239, Daytona Room w/  HELP!  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
FOR MORE INFO.  @ 284-5007 ASAP!  Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  Need Pitt GA's  I NEED PITT  
Call Andy @ 3654  ANDBCGA's.  
Chicago-based corporation recently Notre Dame licensed seeks local  I'm driving to Miami Oh this weekend and would like a rider.  TICKETS  Please help my Uncle live a lifelong  CALL AMY X4952  Hey PWites ...  
agent to sell T-shirts, sportswear,  Todd 1251  dream: I need 2 BC GA's and a  WILL TRADE 2 BC GA'S FOR 2  The talent show is coming ...  
etc. OFF CAMPUS only; sopho­ I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  female student ticket. Call Sean at  USC GA'S Frank 232-2256  
more or junior preferred. Generous  TIXS.272-6306  4-3479  We need actsll  
commission. Call Tracy @ (BOO)  LOOKING FOR MOTHER'S  Be daring...Be bold...You don't have  
551-0035.  HELPER WHO ENJOYS CHIL­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  to have any real talent...just be cre­ 
DREN. FLEX HAS (an afternoon &  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  WANTED FOUR TICKETS TO NO  ative Ill  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  a couple of AM's). CALL 232-6755.  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  NEED FSU TICKETS  FSU. CALL COLLECT 619  
CALL 259·8684.  JANE AT 1-800-264-3278.  CALL JOHN 271-1706  942 5030.  The big event will be at 7 p.m. in  
HELP!  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Theodores on Thursday, Sept. 30.  
- I LOST & FOUNDI  I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE! If you need a roommate,  FSU TIX NEEDEDIIIIIIII CALL CRAIG @273-3942  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I have 2 STAN GA's Call Dave #1493 ASAP  To sign up, see Jen Marten.  
ca11Jay-x1714  PLEASEII  4 SALE: PITT USC and BC TIX @  
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east  273-0531  Have 1 FSU & 1 BC stud. to  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
side of the library on a ledge: dorm  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  TRADE for 2 USC GA's  
keys and car keys. Call Doug at  MATT @ 232-3870  Needed -2 tickets for Pittsburgh/NO  Chi-Chi @1200  
234-8306 to claim.  WANTED-PHYSICS TUTOR  Game. Call 634-4023  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ 
NEED EXTRA $? HELP ME  NO vs USC -Need tickets for  agement and security to the pre­ 
Lost: Green army-type bookbag  LEARN PHYSICS 217. CALL  10/23 game.Chris Marks  STUDS 4 SALE -2 FL. ST., 3 B.U.  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
with German book and dictionary.  COLLEEN AT 284-5407  800-523-3139.  NEED 2 BYU TIXI  BEST OFFER 284-5194.  time mom and loving dad; married  
Reward. 237-0659.  SOON!  PLS CALL (801)484-7108  12 years; promises that your child  
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  I need st. tix bks please call Pat  will have every opportunity. Please  
GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  Will give big bucks and parents  3281  call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­ 
Found • Gold bracelet @ Campus  Help! We have sore butts, so we  GA:s 2773097  weekend GA's for FSU GA's. Call  8195.  
View Apts. Call 273-5909 to identify  need a couch or sofa. Do you have  Mike at X16201  I need 2 pairs of PITT GA's  
an old one? $60 or less?  #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  call Tim 237-1012$$$$$  
Found -Elizabeth A.__,  Call usl x3043 or x3041  Desperately seeking 3 Pitt GA's or  WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES  
I found your football tix in  Help! I need four tickets to the  Stud. Call Brian at 4-1553  PANCAKES AND IS WILLING TO  
DeBartolo.  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  Boston College game ....  NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET  
Call273~5  BRUNO'S NEEDS Drivers! Ill  THEM. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ 
PT for Campus Deliveries.  If you would like to make a hot  I NEED two Pitt GA's '  CALL JOE@ X1613  DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  
I LEFT MY WALLET IN THE FIRST  Call John 288-3220  babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at  Call Matt at x1686  FOR MORE INFO.  
RACKET BALL COURT LAST  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  634-2703...  NEED 2 FEMALE STUD. TIX FOR  
NIGHT AT THE ROCK. I WOULD  I NEED PITT TICKETS  PITT. JAY X1534  ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!!II  
REALLY APPRECIATE GETTING  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#  
MY ID BACK. IF THERE IS STILL  WE NEED JOBSI!If  CALL AMANDA @ 232-6984  Class Mass is Oct. 3, 2:00p.m. at  
MONEY IN THE WALLET I WILL  Have books, but no jobs.  Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA  I NEED PITT GA TIX  the Grotto. (If rain: Keenan­ 
BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO  -NO Student Trainers  Need FSU tickets, stud or GA  Stanford Chapel)  
OFFER A REWARD. CALL ME  Call Dave at 4-3507  Need 2 GAs for any home game  CALL MIKE AT 277-8135  
BRYAN MEYER 112115 OR LEAVE IT WITH MY RECTOR AT STAN­ FOR RENT  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  Call Tim at 273-1757  4 SALE PITT STUD TIX  Father Miscamble will preside.  
FORD HALL.  &  CHRIS 271-7807  
HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  2BC STUDTIX  I need 1 USC ticket: student or GA.  Don't miss this opportunity to cele­ 
FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD HEART  NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  x2300  Please call Steph at 273-6548.  I NEED *PITT* STDNT TIX  brate Mass with friends!  
RING IN DBRT BATHROOM CALL  271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  CALL 273-6463  
KRISTEN AT: 4-2780  MACHINE.  lmportantllllllllllllllllllllllll  NEED 2 PITT GA OR STUD TIX.  
Need 2 or 4 GA's for BC  JOHN X3403  PRESIDENT CLINTON TURNS 211  
NO Alum-Fanatic  Today's the big day for the first  
LOST: Gold Camel Pendant some­ KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK­ Will pay any pricellllllll  Wanted: One Gen Ad tix for Pitt  female editor of the Scholastic.  
where on North Quad. VERY SEN­ FAST located 23 miles south of  Call Katie 4-3390  and SIX for BCIIIII Call Colleen  I need 2 Pitt GA's. Please call  Friends cheer. Stunned boyfriend  
TIMENTAL-REWARD!  Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz  (leave message)  x2785 soon! Will pay $$$$$$$$  Mary at 4-3023.  says.'"Finally." Roommate plans  
Call Amy@ x1334 Please help!  Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4  wild night on the town... Happy  
rooms, full breakfast -week-end  NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA  ALUM needs to trade (2)BC GA's  Birthday, Amanda!  
getaway  STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ for (2) USC or (2)PITT ­call Jim  
219-586-7090  8826 AFTER 5 PM  collect 313-478-6028  
LOST: VARSITY JACKET AT 200  I NEED FSU GA's  FREE THE NAKED 4 II  
HAGGAR ON 9/17. REWARD.  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY  TOM@ 271-2908  
CALL 4-2915.  ND/SMC EVENTS  MIKEx2292  Need 2-4 Pitt GA's  
(219) 291-7153  Katie 273-6324 $  N.D. Alumnus has FSU GAs and is  $800 WEEKLY POSSIBLE!  
HELPII NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­ looking to trade for USC GAs.  Working at home! 37 different  
Found: Nancy Kim I found your  1 block from N.D. Apartments at  WILL SELL 1 PITT GA  Need 2 Pitt GAs &  Please call (717) 697-2219 and ask  opportunities. Rush $1 and self­ 
football tickets in the Fischer  755 South Bend Ave. 1 bedrm-240,  CALL HELEN x4026  6 Fl St (Any Comb)  for Tom or leave message.  addressed stamped envelope to:  
perking lot. Please call me @  2 bedrm-330, dep., references 1­ Mike -1862  L. Miko  
4-4303 and if you're nice I'll return  800-582-9320  We Need PITT TIX  $WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ NEED  1649 Turtle Creek Ct.  
them.  2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at  2 PITT GA'S CALL (614) 459-0074  South Bend, IN 46637  
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront •  1612 orKristenat2812  COLLECT AFTER 4 PM OR CALL  
·­ Private.  I NEED tickets for PITT and FSU ­ SHEILA AT x4072  
WANTED  257-9101  PITT AND USC GAs WANTED FOR RICH  student or GA's. Please call Christine at 273-4803.  $Need Pitt GAs$  Congratulations GORBYIII  
LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  ALUMNI $$$232-1348  Angie 273-5805  
SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  PLEASE HELPIII I NEED 1 GA OR  To all joining the ND/SMC Ballroom  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI  CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST  STU. TICKET FOR PITT. CALL  Dance Club: The $25  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  PUS $225. M0.272-6306  WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 PITT GA'S DONALD x1724.  KELLY @ 4-4270  PERSONAL  membership fee is due this Thursday. Ques?  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  NEED PITT STD. X4022  Call Laurie 4-3490  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­ OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ GAME. MIKE @ 1724  Heading home?  THINKING ABOUT SERVICE  
•  678-63861  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235. EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  Watching FSU-Miami?  NEXT YEAR? COME TO THE POSTGRAD FAIR!  CKATERKATIE,  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING •  BUS. 232-8444.  Sell me your PITT stud  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30TH  HAPPY 18TH B-OAVI  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194.  call Scott 3586  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­ YOU WILL GET YOUR BLACK  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the  CERNS  COFFEE, CREAM & SUGAR IN  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  Female r-mate needed IMMEDI­ • 4 Football Tickets Notre Dame/BYU  50yd FLORIDA STATE 50yd  7-10PM  BEDII  
Career employment available. No  ATELY at Turtle Creek! Gina 4­ (801)798-2340 Evenings.  2-50 yd. line, row 20, GA's for sale  OVER 40 PROGRAMS REPRE­ LOVE,  
experience necessary. For more  2372  Best offer over $300 ea.  SENTED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH  KRISTIN & MEGAN  
Information call 1-206-634-0468  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA  Also need any 1 student or GA  INFORMATION!  "YOU'RE SO PRETTY THE WAY  
ext.C5584  FOR SALE  STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  Call Barney@ 277-8135  But pa, she is the right man!  YOU ARE.. ."  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries.  GA~1E. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ AHOY MATIESII NEED 2 PITT  glnd/smc po 194 NO IN 46556  CHANTAL,  
Earn up to $2000-$4000 or more  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  1429  AND 1 USC (STU OR GA) FOR  BONNE ANNIVERSAIRE!  
per month on fishing vessels or in  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  OLD SHIPMATES COMING TO  Jet'aime...  
canneries. Many companies provide  NEED TICKETS  TOWN. BOB X4529  ••• NEW ••• NEW ••• NEW •••  Tout mon amour,  
transportation and room & board.  I need tickets for these games:  COLOR COPIES &  Pierre  
No experience necessary. Male or  Why rent when you can own?  BC (student ticket)  I NEED ONE BC TIX & MANY  TRANSPARENCIES at  
Female. For more Information  19" Color TV-$90 used but works  PITT (student and GAs)  PITT TIX-STUDENT OR GA  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  well  Call Jen or Nicky at X1308  271-7047  in the LaFortune Student Center  G$ really does a great job blocking II  

Coming This Friday: 
A Sports Extra 

Notre· Dame vs, Stanford 
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 9 
Holtz respects Walsh, Stanford despite 2-2 record 
, 
1 
I 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Respect oozes from the pores of everyone involved when Notre Dame and Stanford pre­pare to play a football game. 
Lou Holtz and Bill Walsh took turns gushing on Tuesday. 
"Notre Dame stands for the very best in college athletics," Walsh said. "We have to play our very best to hold our own, and on a rare occasion, win." 
Those occasions haven't been so rare over the last three sea­sons. Stanford has won two of the last three matchups, both times eliminating Notre Dame from the national championship hunt. 
Memories still linger from the 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
I 
losses, but Holtz won't allow himself or his players to let those memories alter their mis­sion. 
"If what you did last year is more important than what you did today, you should get out of the game," he said. 
Notre Dame enters Saturday's game with some key injuries and some unanswered ques­tions. 
Linebacker Pete Bereich will definitely miss the game due to a shoulder injury, although it is unclear ifjunior Jeremy Sample or senior Anthony Peterson will be his replacement. 
Peterson returned to practice Monday after missing three weeks with a knee injury. 
Freshman Kinnon Tatum, 


,_,elcq.... p.e~~ t;~.. ~e 
,l\WF~ ~4 cross-country.r11nn.ers Mike "Be..aver." Me··· ..··. '.m8 an·d·.··..... ... . . 
Kramer tonight at 8pm on WVFJ 640 AM.o Call in.. with yo~ ques~ tions and comrnen~ ~ 631-640().: ·...... ... i •. .• ..r .. ; .i ·.· · · ... · .... .The D<trmpr·Rur~teat\lrln:g ~:au~·6.~etU,® .. . ·~# Saturday, October 2, at lOamat Stepan Cent~}C;Tbere . .. ~~~ vance regjstration fee at the RecSports office and a $6 fee on.the day of the race. For more infonnation, call.Recsports at_63h 
6100. . •• :: . :i.· .•::::: ::/. .{}: ..•<:· :::.:·::.:• .· . " 
A horsebaCk riding day is p!atmed for SJ1nclay, ()et: bus will depart every hour from.10:3Q until .2:$0~ The : .. per person wbich includes· transportation. Those interested should register in advance in the RecSports office by Sp.IJlq Thursday, October 7. The ma.ximlliD numbt}rperrl4~ts.tp•..Fpt more information, call RecSports et631-6100 •.· ..·. < ''·' vv 
Sailing Plub will hold a meeting on Thursday. Sept~~~l:i ~Q.; at 7pm in t\l.e boat house on SaintJoseph's Lake. · ..•.····•.·· •• 
• 
Wolf Tanning Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge 



Tan All You Can for one month $49.95 ~reu~:a~~~~~:C:d 
272-0312 Expires0ctober3l,l993 
SUITCRSE PRRTY 
sophomore Brian McGee and senior LeShane Saddler will also have to fill in a defensive end. 
Kevin McDougal will start again at quarterback and his level of play will determine whether or not Paul Failla sees more action. Holtz has yet to name a starting tailback. 
"McDougal will start [at quar­terback] but what happens in the game will determine who will play. It's kind of a gut feel­ing," Holtz said. "I have no idea who the tailback will be. It's not that they're not playing well, but we're looking for some consistency." 
Walsh's second Cardinal team is also looking for consistency after stumbling already to 
Volleyball 
continued &om page 12 
Division I player-of-the-week after her MVP performance in the Golden Dome Invitational, especially because of her key role in the upset of then No. 3 Nebraska. 
"I'm very honored to receive the award, but I think more significantly, it shows the team is playing really well right now," said Peters, who had 61 kills in this weekend's tourna­ment. She also had 11 kills and 11 digs in last night's vic­tory. 
"It's really a huge honor for both Christy and the team," noted Brown, as the award is one of the first times an Irish player has achieved such na­tional recognition. 
Thursday, September 30th 
Senior Bar, 9pm :· : J / . Tickets $18 .. !./·. 
~~·lsl-----------------------------~-~!!1 
·::~ 
Win an all-eHpenses paid trip to see the Irish stomp Stanford! Ticlcets are on sale now at the Lafortune info desk 
or through Off-campUS reps: 
campus Uiew: Pat Broderick Castle Point: A.J. Mencias House: John Hermanson 
Indian Springs: Beth Bolger Lafayette Square: Susan Rassas Oak: Hill: Chris Sforzo 
\ Turtle Creelc: Jerri Ryan~ .::·.-· 
0 ••:.··:...·.-·····:·.-.-.· ·····:···' 
.::=:::·· 
Cl.4SS OF 1994 
Pizza and ..: '"'-'beueragesr-: ::/ included! .·· .:::=---· 

UCLA and Washington. 
"It has been a tough season, but we're 2-2 so its not as though its been disastrous," Walsh said. "We've managed to win our share. And by rights, last week's game [a 28-25 loss to UCLA] should have gone the other way." 
A narrow win over San Jose State and a controversial deci­sion over then-No. 7 Colorado haven't exactly put fear into the hearts of Cardinal opponents. But Notre Dame appeared equally vulnerable in last week's 17-0 escape at Purdue. 
"We are going to have to play the best game of the year to beat Stanford," Holtz said. 
FIGHTING THE FIGHTS: Three brawls last Saturday turned both coaches' attention to the state of discipline on the gridiron. 
"I don't know what they're doing [during the fights]. but they're not representing a uni­versity," Walsh said. "The col­lege presidents should meet with their team at the begin­ning of every season and tell them that if they do something like that they'll be suspended. Period." 
Holtz also had some thoughts about the incidents. 
"I just hate to see what hap­pened last week. I beleive you should always have respect for your opponent and the price he has to pay," he said. "Football is a vicious game played by gentlemen.n 
Saint Mary's disappointed in tough 2-0 loss to Kalamazoo 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team has learned the hard way that domination doesn't necessarily mean victory. Once again the Belles outplayed their opponent yet came up short by losing to the Kalamazoo Hornets yester­day, 2-0. 
"They scored their first goal because we didn't communi­cate," he said. "We also had opportunities to score, but couldn't do it." 
Junior Jennifer Ferry expressed concern going into the game about the team's ten­dency to tire in the second half. 
Here's to another great vear as a student, Amanda, and a 
m~~~w ~u~Q 
Love, Mom, Dad, Camille and Becky 
"In our previous games, we have dominated the first half," she said. "We just can't seem to play well in the second half." 
Despite the loss, Van Meter did note that the effort was much stronger than in their loss last weekend. 
"Of course I'm disappointed with the outcome, but I'm pleased with the effort. Everyone contributed," he said. "On Saturday we played like the weather." 
"Kalamazoo is a fine team and have always been a fine team," he explained. "They've always gone to the tournament and that has given them invalu­able experience." 
Marten 
continued from page 12 
to help his team hold the White Sox at bay. At Notre Dame, Peltier holds the record for the highest batting average of any player after hil.ting .446 in 1989. 
Although the most recent, Peltier is not the only Domer to make an impact in the "show." It is a little known fact that the Boston Red Sox snatched up Hall of Farner Carl Yastrzemski before he could play for the Irish. 
Because freshmen were not eligible for varsity athletics then, Yastrzemski attended Notre Dame for three semes­ters and was ready to join the baseball team in the spring of his sophomore year when the Red Sox offered him a six-fig­ure pro contract. 
Actually, in addition to Peltier, Yastrzemski and Hall of 

•
Farner Cap Anson, over 80 Notre Dame players have gone on to careers in major league baseball. With others not too far behind, Notre Dame base­ball players will continue to make an impact in the big leagues. 
Save 
allfe. 
Learn 
CPR. 
.'\lllt'l'lt ;Ill 
1\' ·II (' """'' 


page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 1993 
'Rugby drops anothet; rowing, polo prepare 
ByJENNY MARTEN 
Saoior Spor:u Writer . 
~ . .• . . . 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club feU victim to the rainy weather and Purdue this weekend in a 25-3 loss. 
ln addition to the downpour, the Irish were hampered by in­·uries, position changes and mental mistakes. Down only 3­5 at halftime, the Irish allowed the Boilermakers three quick scores after the break and were never able to recover. 
The team may have been looking past the Purdue match to this weekend's Chicago Area Rugby Football Union (CARFU) Tournament. As the top seed in the seven-team event, the Irish are looking to advance to the Midwest finals. 
Last year, the team came a game away from the final four and this year they are deter­mined to get there, but they have to perform at the Union Tournament. 
One positive sign for the Irish last weekend was that the B-side beat the Boilermakers, 14­0 
·ROWING 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club Js headed to its first regatta of the year this weekend as both the varsity men and women compete in the Head of the Ohlo. 
At the Pittsburgh event last year the Irish had a men's llgh~eight 4 boat finish second and a men's lightweight 8 fin­ish l.hird. On the women's side, the Irish placed second in the li~~eight 4 and lightweight 8 diVISIOns. 
This year, the Rowing Club wlll send nine boats to the 2.5 mile course on the Ohio River including a men's heavyweight 8, two men's lightw~ight Ss, a women's heavywetght 8, a women's heavyweight 8, a men's Ug~tweight 4. a men:s heavyweight 4, a women.s lightweight 4 and a women s heavyweight 4. 
WATER POLO 
The Notre Dame Water Polo Club gets its first ever taste o conferenc~ action thls weekend as the lnsh play host to the Great Lakes Water.•P~lo Conference North Dxvtswn Tournament. . 
Competing at Rolrs Aquattc Center this weekend will be Notre Dame, Eastern M~chlgan, Bowling Green, and Fmdlay, OH. The team is a young one with only one senior. Ed Padinske, and three juniors. Brian Coughlin, Donald Balbo and Eric Schultz, leading the underclassmen. 
The Irish defeated Bowling Green twice last year and Eastern Michigan once while losing to Findlay by only a point. 
Last spring and over tl1e sum­mer, the irish worked closely with nine other teams in the Midwest to create the Great Lakes Conference. The con­ference should make things easier f?r the Irish in terms o scheduling, but several of the teams have women's s~ads as well. The Irish are lookmg for 

Won1en's soccer shoots for 9-0 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Writer 
Unbeaten and untied, the 8-0 Notre Dame women's soccer team will put its thirteen game winning streak on the line this afternoon when it faces off with the Raiders of Wright State at Alumni Field. 
The Raiders (2-6) have had a very unfortunate year, losing several games by one-goal mar­gins, as well as losing their top player for the season. Sophomore forward Angie Poppaw, who scored eleven goals last year. is out with a chronic knee injury. 
"Obviously, with Notre Dame being unbeaten, it is going to be a very difficult test for us," said WSU head coach Hylton Dayes. "We just want to have a good showing." 
The third ranked Irish last met Wright State in their final game of the 1992 season and claimed a 2-1 victory in what was perhaps the most thrilling match of the year. 
Although the Irish had already outshot the Raiders 14­1 with only five minutes left in the contest, the score was locked at zero. Wright State's Christy Peters snapped the tie at the 85:39 mark and suddenly the sixteenth ranked Irish were on the verge of ending their season by snapping their four game winning streak and falling out of the rankings. 
One minute and seven sec­onds later, however, defender Gennifer Kwiatkowski evened the score and midfielder Ragen Coyne followed by winning the game for the Irish with 36 sec-
Love you 
··Paul Martin Matthews 
Happy
21st 
Birthday! 
Mom, Dad, Peter, Jamie and ALL! 
Class of '94 
uitcase arty 
Tickets are on sale now at the LaFortune Info Desk for $10. 
(ticket price includes beverages, food, and a chance to win a 
trip to the Stanford game with 4:j
tickets, hotel, airfare.} 


onds remaining. quickly," he said. "We want to 
"We dominated the game," avoid getting into a physical said Notre Dame head coach battle." Chris Petrucelli. "We just didn't "We have to concentrate on score." playing this game and not look­
This year's edition of the ing ahead to this weekend," Raiders is a very physical and said tri-captain Alison Lester, well-coached one, according to referring to the up-coming Petrucelli. What they lack in match with ninth ranked scoring ability they make up for Stanford. "We have to make with aggressiveness. sure that we don't let them take 
"We have to move the ball us out of our game." 
The Observer 
Are you a freshman, sophomore, or junior interested in sales? 
{It is a p~id position) 
Work your own hours and at your own pace ... Applicant should be highly motivated and flexible. Anyone interested please contact Anne Heroman, 
Advertising Manager, at the Observer 631-6900 
-~­

SAINI MAIN'S COl I fCE 
/'\ORtftU CtnTtR 
fOR ltft <tl R T S 

The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana and the Saint Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs present 
india dance ensemble 
Wednesday, October 6, 7:30p.m. O'Laughlln Auditorium Tickets $12* 
*Discounts for senior citizens, students and groups. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard, Discover orders and ticket information at 219/284-4626. 
---e--­
saim Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
• 
I 
' 
I r 
' 
I _,. 
' I 
f 
~ 
Soccer 
continued from page 12 
the Irish midfielders, who dis­played superior speed and ball control. Lanza added another goal at the 53:26 mark off a Mathis pass, booting the ball from ten yards out to give Notre Dame a 6-0 lead. 
The sophomore concluded the evening's scoring with 
14:25 left to play in the contest with a 15-yard shot past Matt McGraw, DePaul's reserve goalie, to give the Irish a 7-0 victory. Freshman Konstantin Koloskov was credited the assist. 
"I was happy that the team played really well," said Lanza, who now has eight goals and 17 points on the season. "There was no way I would have scored if my teammates didn't put the ball right on my foot." 
With the win, the Irish raise their record to 5-3 on the sea­son, while DePaul drops to 2-7­
1. Notre Dame will be in action again this weekend, as they will host the Notre Dame Classic at Alumni Field. The tournament field will include Indiana. Penn State, and South Carolina, teams that all hold a top-25 ranking. 
FREE WIU.Y lPG) 
1,4s.4,11. MS. 9,00 
SLHEPLilSS IN SEA TIU! lPG) 
no.1oo. 1 11. • 10 
STRIKING lli~'TANCE IRI HJO, 00. 700. HO TilE PROGRAM (RJ z,II.Hl. no. 10,00 TilE SECRET GARDEN (G) 
100.410.6.41.8-41 WARLOCK• THE ARMAGIIDOON (R) z,41. 100. H s. 9,41 
-

-----------------------------~------~-----------------------------------------------r----.------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 29, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 11 
AN'D ~e.N fY\EAT'l..ESS" ~1::-E.D 1 -r 1 VJ •·n~ "Sc.rnE. FIZ£NC.H 12o~,..t... $P.('"-I'DVJIC.'"' ,-Hit-~6 •. \  Ar-T> itJELL, "THERE's TH£ '""DELl 1 ""PLuS 11-4o'S£. FP-<e'SH 12<>LLS A-r lHE. 'SI'Ll'l:> ""BAI'-..  0~.. Ar-Jt> lH<>S €. F1>u ,,. Cvrs ... Af"D TH<>SE. mv~,.•­Co~o~>.E.D Pvt>o•N<> lH•I"'uS .  w~~l>owE. toVE."' 'REAO 1flE {Y\E,.,~ 7  'BEATS litE l·kLL ()v11'A lYlE . PASS IH£ 6/J.~liC SAve.". \  

SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

1 Macbeth or Macduff 5 Kind of chance &Group character 13 Eye shade? 14 Essen's valley 1&1t's a question of place 17 "Of wrath" in a hymn 18 Sector 19 Raising goose bumps 20 Pacino-Cazale movie: 1975 23 Siskel's partner 24 Actress Salonga 25 Traveler's stop 26 Cornered 
29 bug's place 31 Hootenanny outburst 34 Smelly 36 "Ain't it a-?" 40 Poiter film: 1971 43"-plan,a canal, Panama" 44 Freudian concerns 45 Cloud over cities 46 Leb. neighbor 48 First drawing 50 Evil, in France 52 Monkey's uncle, maybe 54Akiba ben Joseph, for one 58 French-Italian comedy: 1978 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
63 High point 64 Marx or Malden 65 Noon signal && Like McCoy? 67 Pound the poet 68 Cavalry sword 69 Droop-nosed 
flier: Abbr. 10 Clean a pipe 
DOWN 
1 Chute 2 Locust pod 3 Plains dweller 4 Epithet for St. 
George 5 Come apart at 
the seams 6 A certain air 7 Laurel and 
Hardy farce: 1939 a Water bearer? 9 McGavin TV 
31 Pennsylvania orfantasy film: Union: Abbr. 
1972 32 Unit of electrical 10 Long-billed resistance
wader 33 A.F.T. rival
11 Stars with a belt 35 Fashionable12 Caught in the Christian? 
act 
37 Ready,-, fire
15 Going fare 
38 Bossy comment? 
character 
39 H.S. course 22 Musical talent 
41 Charles or 27 Spongy soil 
Bradbury 28 Aves have them 42 One half of a 30 Dos Passos title Gabor name 
TWO QUICK QUESTIONS 
1. 
If someone were to ask you if you drank responsibly this past weekend, what would you say? 

2. 
What is responsible drinking? 


Here is how many health professionals define responsible drinking: 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 

Primitive theme parks 
OF INTEREST 
DAVEKELLEIT 
I CAN ONL.'/ CO~\ l>AIA Y.H16N 1\-tf: WHrlt\E.R IS N\Cf. 

A forest fire couldhityou rightwhere you live. 
Living near a forest means you have to be extra cautious about forest fires. Firesafe your area by clearing brush around your home and planting fire retardant vegetation. Use spark arrester screens on chimneys and vents. Install fire retardant material on roof and exposed understructure. And don't burn trash or leaves. These simple precautions could save your home and more importantly, your life. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires.
47"Norma-" 55 Flame or fire 49To's 56 Record holder opposite for World Series 

hits DINING HALL
50 Song from "WestSide 57 Muslims' faith Story" 58 Glaswegian gal 51 Bitter 59 Boxer Tunney 53 Former TV host 60 Dec. ad word Jack-61 Hat material 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Zero= Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, 
or pregnant.
ZER® 

One= One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. 
e)NG 

Three = No more than three drinks per day, and never daily.
THR:if. AND 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 

L__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

--------------------------~--~---------~------~--------~ 
r 
SPORTS 
page 12 Wednesday, September 29, 1993 
Lanza scores 5 goals as Irish dump Blue Demons 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports W rirer 
"We dominated the game," was all head coach Mike Berticelli needed to say, as the Notre Dame men's soccer team bullied DePaul all over Alumni Field last night en route to a 7­0 rout. 
The Irish were led by sopho­more forward Bill Lanza, who notched five goals on the night, breaking the single game scor­ing record of four, a mark pre­viously held by four former domers. The feat was last accomplished by Richard Herdegen in 1983. · 
"Bill Lanza had a great game," continued Berticelli. "You also have to look at the players around him. They deserve a lot of credit as well." 
Notre Dame's offense, which 
........· struggled against a tenacious Indiana defense in last week's 3-0 loss, found no difficulties
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Bill Lanza set a team record with five goals in last night's 7-0 win over getting on track last night. The 
DePaul. 
JOCK STRIP 
Notre Dame 
• 
pros not JUSt NFL, NBA 
It is still the American pastime even though basketball and football are mak­ing strong cases for the title. Baseball, this week especially with pennant races coming to a close, gives the country a reason to smile and a reason to follow the magic numbers as they tick away. 

On Sunday• the Chicago White Sox faced the second-place Texas Rangers in a
doubleheader with 
elimination at stake for the Rangers. As most know by now, the two teams split the twin-bill to set up the Chicago's title-clinch­ing win over the Jenny Marten 
~ariners on Monday mght. . . 
. In the midst of the hystena on Sunday, very good tonight," said Irish head coach It ~~s easy to overlook one of .the .play-Debbie Brown, whose team improved to ers m the second game who. might mter-11.3. "We'll definitely have to work on est th~ Notre Dam~ commumty. those this week, because we made this While the achievements of f?rmer match a lot tighter than it should have 
Notre Dame football players In the been .. 

National Football League such as Joe · Montana.. Joe Theisman, Ricky ~atters The second game was very much in the and Reggie Brooks and form~r lnsh bas-same vein, as the Irish transition offense ketball players sue~ as ~dnan ~antle~, failed to create many easy scoring op­John P~xson and ~Ill Laimbeer m their portunities. The difference in this game respect~ve professiOnal sports ~re well was Harris, whose presence at the net known m s.outh Bend, ~any Insh f~ns caused prflblems for the Blue Demon and alumm do not reahze that maJor attackers league baseball has a few former Notre · 
Dame playe~s of its own. Harris, who finished with six kills and 
I~ Sunday s second game between the a team high five blocks, was able to put White Sox and the Rangers, one of the away the game with a final flurry of a more recent l':lotre Dame gra.duates block and two kills. The Irish also got a earne.d a startmg .nod. 1989 Insh Al_l-lift from three service aces, one each by Amencan ~an Peltier batted seventh m Stark, sophomore Brett Hensel, and the Texas lineup. senior Janelle Karlan. 
Al.though he went 0-for 3 ~t t~e plate, "Our blocking was pretty active Peltier made several catches m nght field tonight, but the middle person can't do it alone, there has to be help on the out­see MARTEN I page 9 side," explained Harris. 

Women's Soccer Alison Lester and the Notre Dame women's soccer team hope to improve their record to 9-0. see page 10 
barage started when Tim Oates scored from ten yards out off a 

Irish volleyball gets job done, 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 
Following last night's 15-12, 15-11, 15­9 lackluster victory over a mediocre DePaul squad, "A win is a win" seemed to be the most commonly heard phrase among the members of the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
"Tonight we let down a lot," comment­ed senior co-captain Julie Harris, one of the few Irish players that did have an above average performance. "It's great that we were able to beat them in three, but being ranked the No. 1 team in our region, we have to be more consistent." 
The Irish came out with confidence, jumping to a 6-1 lead behind four kills f · 'ddl bl k M 11 s k
rom semor m1 e-oc er o y tar 
and an ace from Nicole Coates. 
However, DePaul's Sheila Carroll served five straight points to even the game. 
After a time out, Notre Dame came back with a more effective block, as Harris controlled the net with four kills of her own. After another Blue Demon rally, Coates ended the game with a solo 
block. "Neither our serving nor passing was 
Inside SPORTS 
SMC Soccer 


Mike Palmer assist only 4:55 into the game to put the Irish up 1-0. 
And then the Bill Lanza show got underway. 
At the 13:30 mark, Lanza dribbled through the Blue Demon defense off a Kevin Adkisson throw-in and drilled a 15-yard shot into the upper right corner past goalie Michael Magno to put the score at 2-0. 
Lanza's scoring spree was interrupted by Chris Mathis with 25:22 left to play in the first half. The freshman for­ward scored on a 15-yard blast into the lower left corner to give the Irish a 3-0 advantage. Palmer and defenseman Brian Engesser were credited the assists on the play. 
Mathis was credited the assist on Lanza's next goal at the 
27:49 mark, as he drilled a shot into the right side of the net from 12 yards out to make the score 4-0. 
During this Irish display of offensive prowess, DePaul could not put together a single orga­nized counter-attack, mustering just two shots on goal per half, while Notre Dame tallied 27 total shots, including 18 by halftime. Irish goalies Bert Bader and David Smith com­bined for the team's third shutout victory of the season. They were aided defensively by Dane Whitley and Chris Dean, who physically dominated the Blue Demon forwards. 
"This is the kind of game we need to play," continued Berticelli. "We didn't let up, and we kept that killer instinct. To be a better team, you have to have a killer instinct." 
Notre Dame's final goal of the first half came with 14:49 left to play. The ball was booted deep into DePaul territory off a direct kick, bouncing off Jason Fox and Tont Richardson before Lanza headed it in to give the Irish a 5-0 lead. 
The Blue Demons opened the second half with a rejuvenated attack, only to be outplayed by 
see SOCCER I page 10 
• 

WillS 3-0 

Saint Mary's drops tough contest to Kalamazoo. 
see page 9 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Middle blocker Julie Harris, right, helped the Irish hold off Depaul last night at the JACC. 

The Irish looked to break out of their lethargy in game three, as they ran to a quick 7-0 lead behind kills by Stark, freshman Jenny Birkner, and junior Christy Peters. Once again, though, the Blue Demons would not go away, as Wendy Fahlstrom and Jen Skarp brought them back to 7-5. 
After the Irish net play increased the lead, Peters added an ace for a 13-9 lead. At this point new faces in the Irish lineup proved to be the difference. Using sets by reserve setter Shannon Tuttle, freshmen Kristina Ervin and Laura Reckmeyer each added kills. Ervin then ended the match with an ace. 
"It was good to see both Kristina and Laura come in and get to touch the ball," stated Brown. "Also, I felt it was im­portant to get Shannon the experience of setting a complete game, and she came in and played well." 
Another positive note for the Irish came in news received earlier in the day that Peters had been named NCAA 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 9 
ND Football Lou Holtz claims Saturday's game is not Holtz vs. Walsh, but Irish vs. Cardinal. 
see page 9 



