The Observer 

VOL. XXV. NO. 115 FRIDAY, MARCH 26, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


,.,.,r.. r ._ •. ~ The students have always played an """"u•.•a•; role in the CSC. according to Kathy Coordinator. Seventy-five percent of gr seniors indicate they have been involved in type of volunteer activity, and close to eigh percent of each year's graduates enter a year more of volunteer service. 
Royer said the center would like to 

'-UllLllllU"J 
this tradition by maintaining a "strong presence in decision-making and planning." A newly created Student Advisory Board 
Photo Courtesy of H.U.G.S 

ensured student participation this year. "It 
Senior Julie Bradley offers toys to a sleepy infant. Julie is a member of H.U.G.S, a CSC service group which works in the pediatric ward of Memorial Hospital. Students hold the babies and play with them. 
Lilly Endowment funds educational opportunities 
By LAURA FERGUSON award to develop a course fo­thor, and several works by non-science majors for the uni­In announcing the winners, News Writer cusing on world music. women authors writing on the versity's summer program. Lilly Endowment Program Di­
"I am planning an ethnomu­Mexican-American experience. "We will hope to utilize a field rector for Higher Education 
In an effort to create new sicology course that focuses on "A course like this one is im­site in Utah to observe geologi­Ralph Lundgren said that in­courses for Indiana indepen­music other than the traditional portant because we have many cal hazards and discuss them as terest in creative professional dent colleges and universities, western composers such as Chicana students on the Saint a first hand approach to un­opportunities remains strong the Lilly Endowment recently Beethoven, Haydn, Mozart, and Mary's campus and we cur­derstanding environmental among Indiana higher educa­announced its 15 newest recip­Bach," said Henderson. "This rently do not have any courses problems," he said. tion faculty members. ients of the Summer Stipend. course will cover Chinese, that read more than one Chi­"The $5,000 will be used as "The Endowment recognizes 
The recipient include Clayton African, and Near East music as cana book. In addition to travel money to Utah to find a that time constraints imposed llenderson, professor of music, well as jazz and blues and how reading literature, students site to study before writing the on faculty during the academic and Ann Loux, associate pro­these forms of music effected will be required to write a pa­course and its syllabus and year may be overwhelming. fessor of English and co-direc­the American culture." per exploring their own fami­workbook. It will also allow us The opportunity to develop a tor of the writing proficiency "This summer I will be travel­lies' immigration to the United to have a summer salary," said new course can be a valuable program from Saint Mary's ing to other universities and States," said Loux. Halfman. form of professional renewal for College, and John Halfman, spend a lot of time reading in "Actually, the idea for this In order to select the recipi­faculty and can provide fresh assistant professor of Civil order to prepare this new course came from Delia Garcia, ents of the Summer Stipend, a perspectives for students," the Engineering and Geological course. I estimate that the a Saint Mary's Chicana student. panel of out-of-state judges Foundation said in its Studies, and J. Keith Rigby, Jr., world music course will be open As a result of spending a sum­traveled to Indianapolis to eval­newsletter. associate professor of Civil in the fall of 1994 to students," mer in Berkeley she suggested uate the proposals, which ap­"I feel that this Endowment is Engineering and Geological he continued. this course to help others know plicants submit through their a wonderful example of the Studies from the University of Loux will use the endowment more about their culture," she institution. Subject matter of generosity of the Lilly Endow­Notre Dame. to create a Chicana Writers lit­continued. these proposed courses range ment. It is a great gesture to be 
The 1993 winners will each erature class. This course, Halfman and Rigby, one of the from artistic studies to business given the luxury to explore new receive $5,000 to develop new which will begin next January, two team recipients, plan to to the legacies of Einstein and courses, especially for smaller courses for their institutions. will feature one book on life in develop a new Notre Dame Chekhov, according to the schools· !ike Saint Mary's," said 
Henderson plans to use his Mexico, one book by a male au-course in geological science for Foundation. Henderson. 
Survivors 'journey' to stop killing 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Robert Gross, the coordinator of the Journey of Hope, a two­week tour of midwestern cities to educate the public about the death penalty, spoke yesterday in the law school's Barry Moot Courtroom. 
The Journey of Hope is spon­sored by Murder Victims Fami­lies for Reconciliation, (MVFR) which is an organization of family members of murder victims who oppose capital pun­ishment. 
"The purpose of this is for MVFR to talk to people about their concerns," said Gross. 
A core group of MVFR mem­bers and other abolitionists will spend a day in each city talking to people about capital punish­ment. The tour will start June 4 in Portage, Indiana, and end in Indianapolis on June 20. Stops include the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City on June 5, South Bend on June 8, and Chicago, Illinois, on June 12. 
MVFR members want to heal the emotional wounds from los­ing a loved one to murder, ac­cording to Gross. This healing, however, cannot be accom­plished by killing the murderer in return. By organizing the Journey of Hope, MVFR aims to educate the public about the problems with a society that re­lies on the death penalty to punish murderers. 
Gross was joined by Ruth An­derson of the Victim and Of­fender Reconciliation Program, who talked about her personal experience as the relative of a murder victim. Andrews' mother was killed when Ruth was sixteen. The crime has never been solved. 
"I went through the typical cycle that people do. I tried to deny it for a while. The next thing I did was get angry," said Andrews. 
Andrews said that the nine years after her mother's mur­der were very difficult. She spoke of her problems with her friends, her family, and her in­ability to really take care of herself. Only after getting mar­ried and starting a family did she begin to heal, she said. 
In 1983, Andrews became involved with the community corrections agency, and started mediating discussions between victims and offenders. Although she admitted she had doubts at 
first,  Andrews  found  that  
"people  kept  coming  to  
agreements."  

"We'd get them(victims and offenders) to talk about their needs and interests, and they almost always came up with a solution," said Andrews. 
Those "solutions," or sentenc­ing arrangements that aim to 
see JOURNEY I page 4 



Vote today 

A run-off election for off-campus co-presidents will take place today in the LaFortune Center from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. The tick~ running are Tanya Bulakowski/Richard Toohey and Kevin McGuire/Howard Lanse:r. 
Junior Mom's Weekend Saint Mary's College Schedule of Events 

Friday 

5 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Wine and Cheese Social. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall. 
Saturday 8 a.m. Nature walk. Depa11s from Angela Athletic Facility. 11 a.m. Greeting and Keynote address, Dorothy Feigl, vice presiden and dean of facl!ltv. Union Station. 
11:30 a.m. Enrerti:linment, Anne Pugliese, junior music major. Union Station. 
11:45 a.m. Lunch buffet. Union Station. 1 p.m. Fashion Show. Union Station. 9 p.m. Sister Chain, student band. Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 


Sunday 
9 a.m. Mass. Church of Our Lady of Loretto. 

page 2 Friday, March 26, 1993
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Abortion numbers could begin dropping 
This anti-choicer is ·ust about ready to grudgingly concede defeat, but I do antici­pate some very slight consolation in the near future. 


The anti-abortion movement is licking 
Brendan Regan 

some deep wounds: a OTS Director
determined pro-choicer as the new leader of -------­our country (not to mention her husband); the perpetual Democrat-controlled Congress; and the recent calculated decision of Byron White to indirectly pass the baton to a member of t_he party that gave him his job rather than retire before last January 20. 
But, if 1 may make a bold prediction, I foresee the number of annual abortions, which has increased almost every year since 1973, declining in the near future. Not because I expect the country to come to i~s sens.es. and see what it's doing to tomorrows femm1sts and abortionists (not to mention the potential citizenry with some redeeming social va~ue); as a conservative I'm not privy to foundatwnless, idealistic reverie-liberals have the monopoly on that. 
No abortions will decline because of two medi~al breakthroughs which are blessings in disguise to anyone who's interested in reducing the fetus death toll. 
• 
RU-486. I'm inclined to believe that an abortion in any form is still a~ abortion--:-that. i~, the destruction of human hfe. But smce 1t s obvious that abortions are going to persist, better that they do so in a way that cuts into the profits of all the scumbag curettes-for-hire; ends the life of a less-developed fetus; and most importantly, forces the woman/c?uple to see, i distinguishable. what she/they JUst destroyed. Perhaps this latter effect is the last ho~e for enlightening abortion-seekers who are shtelded from viewing the erstwhile contents of the uterus in current procedures. This is not to en­dorse RU-486, except where it may have other medical purposes like for individuals with cancer. but just grudgingly to recognize it as the lesser of two evils which just could open some eyes. 

•Norplant. 
What a brilliant inventi~n! Several matchstick-sized capsules implanted m the arm which provide foolproof birth control. for five years constitutes a very decent solutwn to a problem-unwanted pregnancy, especi~lly among teenagers-which begs for a soluh?n· any solution. And all of you_ who ~re s~reammg "genocide" right now are JUSt d1vulgmg your own latent prejudice, intimating that it is (insert minority group of your choice) that are having all the babies out of wedlock and thus stand to be "eliminated." I can only see Norplant as reducing demand for abortions. 


Aren't the above devices-one which I stop short of detesting, the other which I wholly embrace-indicators of the moral decay of our society? Yes, but that's a foregone conclusion in my mind. I'm advocating a strategy to "cut our losses"-in this case, of the innocent victims o the ultimate injustice. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Lab Tech

News John Lucas 
Kyle Kusek Katie Murphy Sports Brian Kubicki 
Production 
VIewpoint

Brian Faiola Allison Ebel
Kristin Ruethling Guy Loranger Brian Seiler 
Accent Business
Bevin Kovalik Matt Carbone John Connerton Susan Marx 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductoon rights are reserved. 
FORECAST Partly sunny with highs around 60. Mostly clear and cold tonight with fog developing late. TEMPERATURES City H L Anchorage 34 13 Atlanta 75 48 Bogota 66 52 Cairo 77 57 Chicago 44 36 Cleveland 44 34 Dallas 74 57 Detroit 43 37 Indianapolis 56 40 Jerusalem 66 50 London 52 39 Los Angeles 62 50 Madrid 66 52 Minneapolis 42 32 Moscow 36 30 Nashville 53 47 New York 51 36 Paris 50 36 Philadelphia 52 40 Rome 68 55 Seattle 54 35 South Bend 49 37 Tokyo 64 52 Washington, D.C. 55 43  


WARM STATIONARY 
a ~ ITil 0 
" f~xx1 ~ll i) 
T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
·.· :•. ., :· :: :· 
: ::: :: :: jf :~ :~· ·:: :~: =~ ~~ ::: 
: ·:: 
~; ~= ::: .:: .:: ::. =· :=· 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Defense minister dominates race 
• TORONTO -Defense Minister Kim Campbell -with a runaway lead, tons of publicity and no heavyweight rivals -made it official Thursday: she is a candidate to replace Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. If she succeeds, she would be Canada's first woman prime minister. "I'll put you out of your misery. I'm here today to announce that I will be a candidate for the leadership of the Progressive Conservative Party," she told 1,000 supporters and media in Vancouver, her hometown. Ms. Campbell. 46, has bee_n considered the front-runner since Mulroney announced h1s resignation plans Feb. 24. A party leader~hip c?n~ention i.s set for June. The winner will become pnme mm1ster untli federal elections. which must be held by late November. Support for Ms. Campbell began buildin_g even before Mulroney made his intentions known officially, and grew so widespread that some Conservative heavyweights dropped out of the race before it began. 
NATIONAL 
Senate aP§.roves Clinton's outline 
• WASHIN TON -Acting in record time, a divided Senate approved an outline of President Clinton's plan to spark the economy and trim the budget deficit on Thursday. Democrats marched in near lock-step ~ehind their new president. "Finally we've done somethmg to break the gridlock and to bring the deficit down and to create new jobs through investment," Clinton exulted during a congratulatory telephone call afterward to top Senate Democrats. The Senate's 54-45 approval of Clinton's blueprint for economic revival came just 36 days after he unveiled his planned tax and spending changes in a nationally televised address. Republicans h~d la~nched repeated assaults against the keystones of ~lmton s plan. But every element -higher taxes on the nch, on energy use and on higher-income Social Security recipients, deep defense cuts and added money for health care and selected other programs-survived unscathed. 

STATE 
State releases wrong man 

• FRANKFORT, Ky. -Law enforcement ?fficers i_n two states continued to hunt Thursday for a convicted swmdler who was released in error before he started serving a 30­year prison term. Robert Harlan Davis disappeared Mar~h 16 after Allen County authorities, unaware of h1s conviction, permitted him to post a $1,000 bond on another charge. State officials said Davis, 48, from Lancaster, is well known to police for persuading elderly people to part with their investments. He has taken at least $200,000 from 20 people across Kentucky, a!ded by a list of investors he somehow obtained. Davis had been sentenced in Grant County in January on charges of. theft by deception, failing to register as a broker a~d bemg a persistent felon. An arrest warrant has been Issued for Robert Davis. 
LOCAL 

Team comietes in Linnaean games 
• NOTRE D ME, IN. -Notre Dame students recently competed in the Linnaean Games of the N?rt~ Central Branch of the Entomological Society of Amenca m Fargo, North Dakota. Nine other teams were present. In the first round the team competed against Purdue, the defend~ng national champions. Notre Dame w~s. defeated 65~~0. ~he students prepared for the competltwn by pract1cmg 2-5 times per week. The coach of the Notre Dame group. was George Craig, Clark Professor of Biology. He was ass1sted by Marty Berg, Chuck Burks. and Mark Blackmore. Ten graduate and five undergraduate students were involved. 
OF INTEREST 

• The Libertarian Party, the third largest political • Transfer Orientation Executive Committee meeting party in the nation, is sending a representativ~ to _Notre will be held Sunday at 9 p.m. in the Student Government Dame. Joseph Knight will be a guest at a meetmg m the office. Faculty Lounge in the Hesburgh Library concourse at 7 
p.m. and will answer questions about the party. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 25 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 231,870,304 + 1.42 to 248.33 S&P COMPOSITE 

+2.81 to 450.88 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +15.\14 to 3461.32
UNCHANGED 609 

GOLD + $.10 to $332.80 oz. 
SILVER + $0.022 to $3.70 oz. 

• 
In 1909: Russian troops invaded Persia to support Muhammad Ali as shah in place of constitutional government. 

• 
In 191 0: Congress passed an amendment to t~e 1907 Immigration Act, barring criminals, paupers, anarch1sts and carriers of disease from settling in the U.S. 

• 
In 1979: Egypt and Israel signed a formal treaty, ending 30 ~~~w~ . 

• 
In 1981: Carol Burnett won $1.6 million in a libel lawsUit against The National Enquirer, which printed a goss.ip column depicting her as intoxicated at an encounter w1th Henry Kissinger. . 

• 
In 1991: The Bush administration indicated it would not a1d rebels seeking to overthrow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. 



---~-~ ------­
• 
' 
HOURS ® 

M-Th -11:00 a.m. -1:00 a.m. • Fri-Sat -ll:OOa.m. ;4:00 
lS ready!
Sun-Noon-1:00 a.m. 
r-------, li-------n r-------,

Free 1 1,14" L~rge 1 1 Lente~ Special1 1 4,14" Large 1 . 1 1 Topptng 1 1 1--14 Large 1 1 1 Topping 1De11veryI .h . Pidzzaf d . k I I Cheese Pizza I I Pizzas I
Iw1t stlx an Joso t nn s 1 1 $500 1 1 I $10-+Tax II +Tax I I $1995 +Tax 1 
~ 1 ~ 1 10fferexpires4/11 ~ 1 1 ~ 1

271 11771 .________eiiJQIIIts. _______ Additional Toppings .95~ each riiiJUIIIfsl. _ Additional Toppings .95~ each ...Additional Toppings 95~ each eiiJQfllsJ. ._ ______
I Not Vahd Wtth Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J 

·sacraments tend not to grant 
women clergy rights. 

"There is a correlation be­tween stress on priestly func­tion and not granting clergy rights to women," he said. 
Second. denominations that are more biblically conservative also tend to exclude women. 
Third, and of less importance to Chavez, was the claim that denominations with a clergy shortage allowed women into the clergy. 
"There's no real evidence of any clergy shortage after 1950, or even after the 40s. I don't discern any pattern between clergy shortage and the time when they were ordaining women," he said. 
From an historical angle, the timing of when a denomination discussed granting women clergy rights was crucial to its acceptance. 
"The later it appears," he said, "the greater the conflict over it. You might expect time would make it easier. But it doesn't." 
The reason for the shift lies in the source of the pressure for organizational change. Accord­ing to Chavez, there is a con­nection between the granting of clergy rights with growing feminism. Chavez proposed that there was more feminist activity in the 40's and 50's than previously thought. 
"It was more elitist," he said, "but it was present." 
Men oza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of 
Saint Mary,s 
272-7510 
ve 10-40°/o on s, trainers, 
clothing, accessories and rollerblades THIS Is A SALE You WoN'T WANT To Miss! Thurs 12.-8 Fri 12.. Sat 10..4 Sun 12

BIKE! 
603 N. Second St., Niles

SPECIALIStS (616) 683..3100 
r---------------------------. 
To the girl who can drink anyone under the table: 

Happy Birthday Annie! 
Love, Your Ex--Roomie 


page 3
Friday, March 26, 1993 The Observer 
anges a ter 20th century presidency 

By KAREN DUBAY character and the develop­News Writer ment" of the presidency to truly comprehend the immense The emerging role of power changes that have taken place of the American Presidency was in recent history. He said that the topic of discussion in Peri the congressional domination Arnold's lecture entitled, that was prominent in the 19th 
"Institutional Changes in the century was replaced with in­
U.S. Presidency: The Case of creased presidential power fol­the Progressive Era." lowing the 1930s. 
The primary focus of Arnold's "Institutional change will take lecture was to "identify change time," he said. in the American Presidency as The "big bang" of changes 
an institution." He cited that occurred after the 1930s various political, governmental. was an isolated incident. 
and historical models in Arnold explained the institu­interpreting the advancement tional changes of the progres­of presidential influence in the sive era and the effects this 
20th century. time period has had on the cur­Arnold explained that it is rent political structure of the necessary to "study both the United States. 
Off-Campus Co-President women in clergy 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI "Post-1970," Chavez said, News Writer "you get a doubling and tripling" of women becoming 
Amidst recent controversy on lawyers, doctors, and priests. the topic of women priests in What puzzled Chavez was that the Catholic church. Mark formal obstacles within these Chavez, a professor in the de-three areas had dropped partment of sociology and an-largely in the 50s. 

Run off Election 

thropology at Loyola University "The dropping of organiza­in Chicago, examined the en-tiona] barriers did not produce trance of women into the clergy women entering the field. Far yesterday, as part of an ongoing from it," Chavez explained. gender studies forum. "We need to distinguish be-



Today 

Lafortune Information Desk 
Chavez, who has also taught tween organizational changes at Harvard, discussed sources and women actually seeking9-7 of the conflicts over granting out clergy rights. The two are 
clergy rights to women. really distinct phenomena." Chavez also discussed rea-As to why some denomina-
All current off-campus students and students who 
sons why organizational barri-tions allowed women clergy ers dropped in the 1950s, giv-rights and others did not.
are living off-campus next year can vote. 
ing women the chance to be-Chavez examined three popular come clergy members as well reasons. First, denominations as doctors and lawyers. with an emphasis on 

page 4 
esc 
continued from page 1 
taken otT in a very special way," said Hoyer. 
The student board addresses the need to enhance student and staff collaboration in order to exchange ideas and develop strategies to continue stu­dents/staff relations which pro­pelled the esc from the begin­ning, according to Walsh junior and board chair Shaheen Goldrick. 
"The board has made a lot of 

progress in established net­
working," said Goldrick. Yet 
they need to "clarify the indi­
vidual roles on the board." 
The history of the CSC re­

volves around the initiative of a 
handful of students who con­
structed the foundation for the 
center. 
The CSC originates from the 

1960s student-run organization 
the Council for the Lay Aposto­
late (CILA). The group began 
the discussion of service oppor­
tunities outside the Notre Dame 
campus and into the South 
Bend community. 
This group served as a cata­

lyst to a multitude of service or­
ganizations. These branch ac­
tivities were directed towards 
volunteer assistance to the 
South Bend area in a variety of 
ways that included help for the 
elderly, the homeless and the 
youth, amongst others. 
In the late 1970s a movement 

began to consolidate these sep­
arate organizations into one co­
ordinated and comprehensive 
center headquartered in an ac­
cessible location on campus. 
In 1982, after much negotia­

tion, consultation and discus­
sion, Father Theodore Hes­
burgh, then president of the 
university, gave official ap­
proval to the project. 
In January of 1983 the 

former WNDU building opened 
its doors as the Notre Dame 
Center for Social Concerns. 
The Center's tenth year an­

niversary celebration kicks off 
Saturday from 4 to 6 p.m. in 
Stepan Center. Events include 
remarks from University 
President Father Edward Mal­
loy. 
London 
Brussels 
P1rls 
Rome 
Tel Aviv 

•Fares are roundtrip from Chicago. Taxes included and resbicticm apply. Call worldwide destinations, both ooe wey roundtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St, 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 

UNIVERSITY 
R~SUM~ 
SERVICE 

•RESUMES •TEd·micAl 
•CREATiVE WRiTiNq 2 7 7" 1 700 

locATEd off-cAMpus by UP MAll 
iN UNiVERSiTy GARdENS 
The Observer 



nbes rega1n pa~t thJough use of economic's an<J law 
By AMY SANTANGELO News Writer 
Economics and the law are two key issues related to the fu. ture of Native Americans ac­cording to Jerry Hill, the tribal attorney for the Oneida Indians. 
"The interest in Indians is di­rectly related to money," Hill said. 
The theme of Hill's lecture re­lated to tribes and their rela· tionship to the government at the local, state, and federal levels. Hill, who is also a mem­ber of the Oneida tribe, ex­plained that Native Americans are using the laws and customs established by the United States to their advantage through ed­ucation and greater under· standing of the law. 
The idea that the Indian Na• tion was tricked out of their land hundreds of years ago, and did not know how this land was lost, Is a myth. according to Hill. The Indian Nation lost their land because they did not have enough guns or people. One 
,,;:· 
poor Indian defending his land is notM as successful as a wealthier Indian defending his land. ;F ,pp ,~r :r:\ ~h' 
Currently, more and'moie Native Americans are gaining an education and making money. he said, ·;; 
The· second part of Hill's dis­cussion focused on the fact that Indians are notoblivious or ig­norant of the law. 
"A tribe gets recognition based on laws and not John Wayne," be said. y, 
Indians understand the system and are able to benefit from their understanding, according to Hill. They are successful in winning lawsuits that are either filed against them or that they file themselves. 
Tribes are no longer being 
suppressed, according to Hill. 
More tribes have been 
rediscovering their unique 
heritage and are regaining some 
of what had been lost when 
United States law was more 
militant that civil. This trend is 
one that wiU continue into the 
future, he said. 


Journey 
continued from page 1 
heal the two parties instead of simply punish, are often in­cluded in the offender's parole file. Instead of acting as adver­saries, victims and offenders work together. 
As a victim herself, Andrews 
continued to be healed through 
this experience. 
"I don't want to be limited by 
being a victim," she said. 
A major problem in our soci­
ety, Andrews said, is that 
"we're operating with a re­
tributive definition of justice." 
Andrews displayed pamphlets from the U.S. Justice Department which seemed to endorse the assumption that 

Friday, March 26, 1993 
justice must be retributive. The death penalty is a tool of this retributive justice according to Andrews. 
"I have no interest in retribu­tion. What I want is to heal. I need to be fully human. In order for me to be fully human, I have to allow everyone else involved to be fully human too," explained Andrews. 
The others involved include the prosecutors, defense attor­neys, offenders, and offenders' families. 
"If we had a justice system whose goal is to be restorative, to promote healing, what would it look like?" Andrews asked. 
MVFR's Journey of Hope is an attempt to build support for such a restorative justice sys­tem which outlaws the death penalty. 

!Conserve Electricity! 
*Save up to $3000 on your next r.ar or truck *College graduate rebate of $400 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
Corner of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 


r----------------,
I I I I I  232-9299 American Cab Co.  I I I  
I I  "Frequent Rider Card"  I I  
I  Ride 10 times and receive $3.00 off 11th ride  I  
I  "We appreciate your business"  I  
I  Call ahead for prearranged pick-up  I  
I  I  

L----------------~ 

presents . 



6prin~ (ever 1 
FREE k·J.;e•-; ovn1\a.ble (It L_C\~0ctune ]_;.rr. l'\''J~! 


Class Dates March 30, April 1, 6, 13 6:00 -9:00 pm Rolfs Aquatic Center Plus a 1 day excursion 
Register at RecSports $15.00 entry fee :all Recsports for more info 
631-6100 

SLAMMER STOR;AQE 
Call Fo~ Rese~vatioV\ 
Master Mini Wareho~Ase 
683-1959 (;Afte~ 5: 684-0285) 
Seniors in the College of Business Administration 
Annual Outstanding Teacher Award elections will take place in the lobby of: 
Hayes-Healy, Monday, 3/29, 9:30 a.m.-11:30 a.m. Hurley Building, Tuesday, 3/30, 9:00 a.m.-11:15 a.m. Hayes Healy, Wednesday, 3/31, 1:00 p.m.-3:30 p.m. Hurley Building, Thursday, 4/1, 1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m. 
~---~-----~--------~ 

Friday, March 26, 1993 The Observer page 5 

The Observer/Maureen Long 

Laughter for charity 
Dillon senior David Colgan performs a stand-up act at Badin's Comedy Night. Show proceeds went to Circle of Mercy Preschool. 
THEINCREDIBLEJOURNEY 
Sat-Sun: t:15, 3:15, 5:15; 7-:15, ~ 9:15 1!:!1 
Dally: 5:15, 7:15, 9:15 ­
Bill Murray 
Groundho!! _Day 
Sat-sun: 2:00, 4:45, 7~, 9:45 Dally: 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
POINT OF NO R£TURN ~ 
Sat-Sun: 2:15,5:00,7:30,10:00 Daily: 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
lHNAGf MUJANJ NINJA JURllfSJJ[ 
Sa1-Sun: 12:30, 2:45, 5:00, 7:00, 9:30 Daily: 5:00, 7:00, 9:30 
starring 
MELANIE GRIFFITH lPGI 
By CHRISSY HALL News Writer 
The business community has designated Chile as the premier country of Latin America to invest in, according to Father Ernest Bartell, the Executive Director of the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
"Chile is the first of the coun­tries to emerge as a Latin American version of the 'Asian tigers'," he said, comparing Chile to Korea and Taiwan. 
Ever since the economy of Chile shifted from one that was state-run to a free market, Chile's economy has been growing, according to Bartell, a panel member for a 1993 Spring Forum presented by the Notre Dame Council on Inter­national Business Development. 
Bartell explained that the growth rates in Chile are phe­nomenal, averaging eight percent a year. At the same time, inflation rates and unemployment percentages are down 
"The capital investment, " said Bartell, "is impressive by any standards, especially for Latin America." 
Chile has reached 20 percent of the gross domestic product and is the first country in this region to shed the debt vestige crisis, according to BartelL Ten years ago, Chile had one of the largest debts in this hemi­sphere. 
Much of Chile's success can be attributed to its export busi­ness, which has risen to 13 percent. This success has cre­ated a budget surplus and has attracted foreign investors. 
"All the numbers look ter­rific," said Bartell. "This is more than you can expect from a small country of 12 million people." 
The relatively small popula­tion and the rapid economic growth in such a short time makes Chile similar to the "Asian tigers," such as Korea and Taiwan. Yet, unlike the Asian countries, Chile has de­pended on its natural resources rather than industry for growth. 
Bartell listed Chile's greatest resources as copper, fruit, and forest products. Its wine indus­try has also grown in the last decades, making Chile the third largest supplier of foreign wines in the United States. The most promising investments are in 

,.ransfer Students ::.:.""" of the "w"'d' of 
who are interested in being on  Conserve  
the Transfer Orientation  Water  
Executive Committee, there is a  Sh  
mandatory meeting on Sunday  OWer  
night at 9:00 p.m. in the Student  With A  
Government Office on the second floor of Lafortune.  Friend  

these natural resources and in non-trade businesses, such as construction and development. 
Although Chile has enjoyed steady economic growth in re­cent years, Bartell spoke of some problems which may threaten Chile's future. Presently, the government shares little or no involvement in the economic sphere and an external shock may easily dis­rupt the equilibrium of the pre­sent economy. Without a gov­ernment agency to regulate transactions, such a disruption could go unmitigated. 
Bartell also included poverty as an ever-present problem in Chile. Despite the low five percent unemployment rate, 35 percent of Chile's citizens live below the poverty line. Only a small part of the population, he said, has enjoyed the fruits of Chile's growth. 
Bartell expressed concern over the environmental dangers that are imminent due to the destruction of so many forests in Chile. Because of the lack of governmental regulation, developers can cut down whatever they are able to buy. 
Chile also suffers from a small domestic market, Bartell said. This condition deprives the 
Gain va ua e wor experience ing a position with the Student Business Board Help run an organization with sales of nearly $100,000 per year! 
The Business Board is responsible for the operations of the Three Student Run Business: 
Irish Gardens Adworks Notre Dame Video 

Applications for General Manager (Seniors to be) will be due on Friday, March 26. Applications for Assistant General Manager (Juniors to be) will be due on Friday, April2. All applications can be picked up in the Student Government office on the 2nd floor in LaFortune. Interviews will follow. A ease call Matt Cenedella at 631--3504. 
The Departme1tt Of Music Presents 
. ~'lfte f}{gtre 'Dame String rrrio 
.~~ ~ '-' CAROLYN PLUMMER, VIOLIN i.~ OIRISTINE RIJILEDGE, VIOLA 
., r-' 

. 
KAREN BURANSKAS, CELLO 
Sunday, March 28, 1993 2:00p.m. Washington Hall 
Free and open to the public 
Judith A. Reisman, Ph.D. 
Director, Institute for Media Education 
Monday, March 29 at Notre Dame 
12:00 Law School Room 105 "Sexual Rights Legislation" 
4:00 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
"Homosexuals in the Military: The Scientific Facts" 
8:00 DeBartolo Room 101 "Media and Sexuality" 
Sponsored by: Jacques Maritain Center John M. Olin Foundation Young America's Foundation 




page 6 The Observer Friday, March 26, 1993 

Political correctness delays translation of new catechism 
(AP)-The new Roman Catholic catechism is a best seller in France and Spain, but a disagreement about gender references is keeping the English translation off U.S. bookshelves. 
First due out in March, the translation was still being worked on this week. The U.S. translators' original version, which broadened references to man to include members of the human family and humanity, was turned back by the Vatican as unfaithful to the com-
SECURITY BEAT 
MON., MARCH 22 

!3:20 a.m. Security responded to a call of a 
possible attempted burglary at the South 
Dlnlng Hall. 
8:51 a.m. Security responded to a two ve· hide accident in the Building Services park· ing lot. No injuries were reported. 
TUES., MARCH 23 

2:57 a.m. Security transported a Pas­querllla West Hall resident from the Student Health Center to Memorial Hospital. 
11:30 a.m. A University employee reported the loss of hl6 parking decal while his vehi· cle was parked off campus. 
11:31 a.m. Security stopped a suspicious looking individual at the Admin. Bldng. 
11:16 a.m. Security escorted s South Bend resident off campus from the Hesburgh Li· brary. 
5:03 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported the theft of her 10 case and its contents from the first floor of the Hesburgh Library. 
7:01 p.m. Security transported an Injured Sorin Hall resident from his dorm to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
WED., MARCH 24 

11:15 a.m. A Graca Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from his unlocked dorm room. 
3:43 p.m. Security responded to a call re­garding a disruptive Individual In the l..aFortune Student Center. 
4:00 p.m. A graduata student reported be­Ing struck by a vehicle while he was walking on Old Juniper Road. 
10:40 p.m. Pollee transported a Niles, Michigan resident from the JACC to the St. !Joseph Medical Center. 
THURS., MARCH 25 

12:08 a.m. Security transported two Notre Dame students from the Rockne Memorial to lhe St. Joseph Medical Center. 
11:41 a.m. Security transported an Injured Keenan Hall resident from lhe Nlauwland Science building to St. Joseph Medical 
HispANic AMERiCAN ORCfANiZATiON 
5. Y. R. DANCE 

KNiGHTS or ColuMbus HAll FRidAy, MARCI-l 26 AT 9 p.M. 
pendium of Catholic teaching approved by Pope John Paul II last June. 
In the middle of the dispute is conservative Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, who originally suggested the idea of a new catechism at a bishops' synod in Rome in 1985. He now finds himself accused of bowing to political correctness in the English translation. ., 
"If this document were to come out in English in exclusive language, it would insure a massive alienation immedi­ately," said Mary Boys, associ­ate professor of theology at Boston College. Law "is sticking his neck out a bit vis-a-vis the Vatican, and I respect him for 
•
~CDS ND Sophomore Sibs I • & SMC junior Moms 
256-1444 
Open Monday,Saturday  
10% discount on dinners for  1213 Li~colnway West  
ND/SMC students with ID  Mishawaka  
or coupon  Just East of 100 Center  







O'MALLEY AWARD 
7993 UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER Of .THE YEAR AWARD 
•
what IS I·r?. 

Each year a committee of students represent­ing all years and majors decide which under­graduate prof has best dedicated his/her time and effort to classroom teaching. The chosen prof wins an award of $1 000. 
an students nominate the profs? 

YESI Forms for nominating your favorite and most deserving profs will be available in the 
$500 AT dooR 

Student  Government  Offic~  2nd  floor  of  
Lafortune starting Fri.  March  19.  They will  
be due by Wed.  March  31 .  

that." 
Thirteen U.S. publishers are preparing to publish the 676­page document, the first uni­versal catechism of the church since 1566. 
While it maintains traditional bans on divorce, abortion and women priests, the catechism also catalogues a list of more modern sins such as tax fraud and low wages and urges com­passion for homosexuals. 
"For any Catholic to be completely informed, they would want to have the cate­chism as a point of reference," said the Rev. John Pollard of the Education Department of the 
U.S. Catholic Conference. The catechism was first issued 


Welcomes 
in French in November. A Spanish version quickly fol­lowed, with two printings of more than 400,000 copies selling out within days. 
The English version was 
·submitted to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith shortly before Christmas, Pol­lard said. In a meeting in early February attended by Law and others, objections were raised over the use of more inclusive language in translating Scrip· 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

STUDENTS 

NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP SPRING PASSES NOW AVAILABLE VALID THROUGH GRADUATION $50.00 
CALL 631-6425 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
ture and the writings of church theologians. 
The translators substituted phrases such as people, men and women, humanity or hu­mankind at various points where the word man was not specifically referring to males. 
Some of the more contro­versial examples related to the translations of the utterances of Jesus in the Gospel, said the Rev. Joseph Fessio, editor of Ignatius Press in San Francisco. 
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 

Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 


Business 

Friday, March 26, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Baxter §uilty of trying to 91t off boycott list ·.····•.·. 
•CHICA 0-Baxter International Inc. agreed Thursday to plead guilty and pay $6.5 million in fines to settle charges that they illegally tried to get off a list of companies boycotted by Arab countries. The Deerfield, lll.·based hospital supply giapt acknowledged that it provided·information to Arao Lea~l),e boycott authorities about its business dealings with Israel, in violation of a 1977 federal statute that prohibits cooperating with the Arab boycott of U.S. bm;inesses that have ties to Israet Baxter was placed on the boycott list because it built a plant making intravenous solution near Ashdod, Israel. Baxter sold the plant in 1988 and was removed from the boycott list in 1989. The investigation examined whether Baxter provided supplies to Syria at discounted prices irvorder to be removed from the boycott list. · 
lacocca received $12.7 million in his last year ..·.. ·. ·. · 
•DETROIT-Chrysler Corp. chairman Lee lacocca received more than $12.7 million in compensation from the rebounding automaker in 1992, his final year as. head of the. company. Tll.~ biggest chunk of Iacocca's compl;lnsation-250,000 shares of Chrysler common stock valued at nearly $8o5 million.:,..-was part of a deal between Iacocca and directors in which he remained chairman after Dec. 31, 1991. 'lacocca, who retired from· Chrysler at the end of 1992, was paid $885,000 in salacy~ ~ $600,000 cash oonus and $1.H~.640 in long-terminoontive pay .... ments from stock options he cashed during 1992. lacocca alSo received options to buy 130,000shares of common stock worth 
$1,024,40~ based on. an SEC·Jno.del sh..~wm·.. • g. t~e sh..~r~s ~~~~. 
purchased m 1997, the year Iacocea's opuonexprres. ·· .. · "'\~i!Js 

Scott Pafor yses lottery to fill jgb op&nings • •··· ··.·.· . 
•oWENSORO, Ky.-Scott Paper Co. used an electro.niq lottery to pick the names of 1.000 finalists for the first 200 jobs· that will be filled by the end of next year. The selection process we..:: a surprise and a disappointment to some applicants, who were assigned to an inactive pool while others with less experience or education moved .ahead. Last month. Scott sent letters to 1,000 of the 5,800 top scorers inviting them to the next phase of the screening -a four-hour assessment of their ability to work successfully in teams. The 4,800 names were placed iJla holding pool. Those in the holding pool also were good canqi~ dates, but Scott Paper Co. could not afford the time and expense of sending all 5,800 through the teamwork assessment at a cost of about $100 per candidate. Tim Gardner said. 
Gas orices raised on the Indiana Toll Road 
•soUTH BEND, Ind. -Gas prices could be going up on tbe Indiana Toll Road as the state tries to appease disgruntled owners of gas stations near the northern Indiana Wghway. The state and Amoco Corp. have agreed to end a contract that lowered prices on the toll road. Bids soon will be taken for a new contract that owners of off· highway stations hope will help the»: business. While a price change will not he certain until a new contract is signed, an increase is likely on the 157 -mile toll road between the Ohio and Illinois borders. The Amoco contract, whlch was to expire in 1996, came after widespread consumer complaints of Wgh prices. 

New licensing director named 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
Business Editor 
Freida Donnan was appointed Director of Licensing at the University of Notre Dame, ef­fective July 1, said James Lyphout, Associate vice-presi­dent for business affairs. 
The move will bring administration of Notre Dame's licensing program wholly onto the campus. 
Donnan had been managing Notre Dame's program for Champion Licensing in Rochester, NY since 1983, but now she will be bringing her expertise directly to the Univer­sity, Lyphout continued. 
"The decision was simply a matter of economics," said Lyphout. "We were paying a fee for someone to manage our licensing, but that became im­practical as our program devel­oped. Now, given the size of our licensing program, we can justify an in-house licensing program." 
Lyphout emphasized that the move was no way an indication of any dissatisfaction with Champion Licensing. "The University has been very satis­fied with the way in which Champion has handled its li­censing program in its early years," he said. "We feel that the size and maturity of our program now warrant a more self-directed effort. We have a strong business relationship with Champion that will con­tinue." 
Lyphout said the decision to appointment Donnan was fairly easy, considering the work she had done with Notre Dame when she was with Champion. 
"She knows her job better than anyone else. She has done 
Multi-billion S&L cleanup bill passes Senate panel 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A bill providing $45 billion to finish the savings and loan cleanup cleared the Senate Banking Committee on Thursday after new members of the panel in­sisted on amendments aimed at reforming the program. 
"This is a vote from hell for a freshman," said Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun, D-Ill., who with other new senators pushed for provisions forcing changes in the operations of the Resolution Trust Corp., the agency that handles failed thrift institutions. 
The RTC has been without spending authority since last April because lawmakers were reluctant to approve cleanup funds during an election year. The bill would provide enough money to handle S&L failures through 1998 and would bring the total spent on S&Ls since 1988 to around $200 billion. 
The banking panel adopted the bill, 16-3, with the inclusion of an amendment that requires Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen to periodically certify that reforms are in place at the RTC. 
These include internal safe­guards against fraud and abuse, expanded opportunitie~ for women and minorities and an appeals process for business borrowers whose credit lines are canceled after the RTC seizes an institution. 
It was sponsored by Sen. Donald Riegle Jr., D-Mich., the chairman of the committee, and Sen. Alfonse D'Amato of New York, the panel's senior Republican. 
Riegle urged speedy action, noting that delays in the pro­gram have already cost taxpay­ers an estimated $1.1 billion and further delays would cost $3 million a day. 
But Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., Moseley-Braun, and two other new senators -Patty Murray, D-Wash., and Barbara Boxer, D-Calif. -said they would push on the Senate floor for stronger reform provisions. 


Winter weather cause of housing drop 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Winter weather nipped more housing activity in February, a trade group's figures showed Thurs­day, and there were signs elsewhere the employment climate remains tepid. 
The National Association of Realtors said sales of previ­ously-owned, single-family homes dropped 6.1 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.55 million, down from 3.78 million in January and 4.04 million in December. The decline was spread across all regions. 
"The fundamentals suggest the decline has to be weather­related, plus the fact that sales really soared at end of 1992 at a rate clearly not sustainable," said Robert Dederick of the Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. "People bought some of the homes in the fourth quarter that might have been sold later." 
The Realtors' survey came on the heels of a Commerce De­partment report last week showing that housing starts slowed to a 2.5 percent gain in February after soaring 8.4 per­cent a month earlier. 
· Analysts attributed the slower pace to adverse weather iu February and predicted activity would lag again this month be­cause of the Blizzard of '93 that swept through the South, up the Atlantic seaboard and into New England. 
At the same time, the Labor Department reported the num­ber of Americans filing first­time applications for unem­ployment insurance fell by 2,000 last week to 349,000. 
It was the third weekly de­cline in a row and pushed job­less claims to the lowest level since 349,000 were filed during the week ended Feb. 13. 
The four-week moving aver­age of new claims totaled 359,250 during the period ended March 20, down from 359,750 a week earlier and the lowest since 353,250 were filed during the period ended March 6. 
Many analysts consider the four-week average a more reli­able measure of employment trends because it smooths out the volatility of the weekly numbers. 
"The job market still isn't improving at more than a fairly tepid rate," Dederick said. The report is "consistent with some employment gains, but not rapid gains." 
The Clinton administration has complained that, while the economy is improving, it is a jobless recovery with much smaller employment gains than during the aftermath of most previous recoveries. 
Officials cite the "jobs grid­lock" as reason for passage of President Clinton's $16 billion economic stimulus package now being debated in Congress. 
In the housing report, Real­tors President William Chee acknowledged the "poor weather conditions in many sections of the nation" in February. But he said there are signs of improved consumer confidence. 
"More and more people are becoming convinced that the economic recovery is here to stay," he said. "There is sub­stantial pent-up demand to be filled, due to consumer reluc­tance to enter the market dur­ing the recession." 
Through February, sales of existing homes were 4.6 per­cent above the same period of 1992. 
Also expected to boost hous­ing activity further are the low­est mortgage rates in two decades. 
Fixed-rate, 30-year mort­gages averaged 7.68 percent in February, down from 8 percent in January, according to na­tional surveys by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
The Realtors said the national median price of a single-family home in February was $104,200, up 1.1 percent from January and 1 percent higher than a year earlier. The median means half of the homes cost more and half cost less. 
Regionally, sales dropped 8.6 percent in the West, to a 740,000 annual rate. The me­dian price there was $140,900, down 0.3 percent from January.. 
Sales fell 8.3 percent in the Northeast, to a 550,000 rate, but the median price rose 1. 9 percent to $136,900. 
In the Midwest, sales slipped 5 percent, to a 960,000 rate. The median price rose 2.5 per­cent to $84,700. 
Sales were ofT 4.4 percent in the South, to 1.3 million, while the median price edged up 0.8 percent to $90,600. 

excellent work with us in the past, and I see no reason why she won't do excellent work for us in the future," he said. 
Donnan will be in charge of 
the University's 205 licensees 
which range from the makers 
of key-rings to the football 
team's jerseys, anything that 
bears the Notre Dame trade­
mark. While the number of li­
censees may seem large, it is in 
fact small, said Lyphout, noting 
that Penn State has close to two 
thousand. 

"Basically, this results from a 
difference in philosophy. Here 
at Notre Dame, we rely on a 
few, very good licensees," 
Lyphout said. 

Lyphout said that there will 
be no change in the University's 'policy against copy-right infringement, student or 
otherwise. 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Friday, March 26, 1993 
The Observer NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 1993-94 General Board Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy News Editor ••••.••••Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ••..Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ••••...•.•.George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fang Accent Edltor ••••••••........Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ... .Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the UmverSity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJOrity of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily thos~ of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. Observer Phone Lines Edltor·in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631·5313' Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631·4543 Systems!OTS 631·8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631·7471  
 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Argument displayed 'ignorance and prejudice' 
epithets like "patriarchical" and 
or otherwise heartfelt beliefs. cerns in the spirit of Christ.

"sexist" in connection with 
For if their motives had been Iconoclasm is a poor substitute

those who disagree with him. At 
true, they would never have for conviction, and anger will

this point I was merely 
expressed such euphoria at the take us nowhere near as far as

disappointed. But then the 
news that a Bishop had dis­love.

Bishop got a little more bold. 
obeyed his superiors.
After mentioning the recent 
At most, they would have ac­

directives by the Vatican that 
knowledged the insubordination Robert Wainwright 

this issue should not be dis­
as a sad necessity, not Graduate student 

cussed by those in authority 
something to be rejoiced at. For March 23, 1993

without permission, the Bishop 
if such defiance is necessary, it

boasted that he had not re-

DOONESBURY 
Dear Editor: 
Robert McMonagle's recent letter "Privacy issue is central in military" (The Observer, March 3,1993) presents a largely uninteresting and intel­lectually bankrupt argument, backed up solely with prejudice and ignorance. No surprise. However, McMonagle curiously appeals to the concept of pri­vacy if only as a code word for fear, which is certainly not one of the unique cultural values of which he writes. 
If he is truly interested in privacy as it relates to the sub­ject of homosexuals in the mili­tary, he might peruse David Corn's recent piece in The Na­tion (February 22, 1993). Corn relates the tale of Anthony Thomas, a former photogra­pher and informer for the Army Criminal Investigation Command. Thomas tells of the ACIC's policy of tailing, spying and eavesdropping on, taking dirty pictures of, questioning, 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

and ultimately dismissing thou­sands of Gay Americans serving their country. 
Additio!lally the article in The Nation points out that the GAO (General Accounting Office of the U.S. Government) reports that the U.S. spent half a billion dollars in the 1980s to recruit and retrain those specifically to replace the thousands of homo­sexuals dismissed from the military. Money well spent in the name of privacy, Mr. Mc­Monagle? 
Maybe McMonagle would prefer his privileged privacy for only certain members of the American citizenry? Maybe he would approve of a government agency devoted to rooting out such 'undesirables' from all sectors of American society, after all privacy is a 'unique American cultural value'? 
John E. Dugan 
Off-Campus 
March 3, 1993 


Viewpoint

Friday, March 26, 1993 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Campus must 'wake' up to serious national issues 
Dear Editor: that usually do not open such an intolerable outrage. 
The necessary and proper themselves to such a group, by The reason? A large group of functions of the University, and people not involved in their people was sitting along the the lives of her busy students, particular cause, and by places hallway of the third floor. Part were disrupted Friday that generally do not allow of a Pro-Life group named afternoon. A tyrannical group such behavior. Collegians Activated to Liberate imposed its activities on other Meanwhile, Notre Dame Life, the activists had been students and faculty, violating Security closed the scheduled to hold a rally at their rights to utilize public and Administration Building to Notre Dame, but the University university facilities public access. Students changed its mind. They were in undisturbed. gathered at the door the administration building 
Chanting loudly, they complaining that they needed to Friday afternoon to speak with marched around campus, carry on business within: to Father Malloy about the entered buildings, tore keep appointments, cash possibility of re-scheduling the through crowded hallways, and checks, or meet course drop cancelled event. They sat caused an uproar in academic deadlines. The students were peacefully on the floor. The as well as social environments. slightly delayed, as only a few atmosphere was calm and They forced their way into were able to enter at a time. unexpectedly quiet. Some computer labs, discourteously Many raised their voices in focused their attention on prying students' protest, embittered over the leaders who spoke about their concentrations away from their disruption of their busy cause and purpose for being work. In order to attract schedules. They demanded to there; others were praying attention, they made their know why they must suffer quietly among themselves. 
The students at the door were told that the cause for delay was a Pro-Life protest. A few moaned in disagreement with the cause and stalked away angry at the commotion. A few endured the short delay without any comment or noticeable reaction. But most smirked and laughed disdainfully. They complained among themselves about the wait, and spoke as though they were annoyed that people have to be so ridiculous as to disrupt normal life. After accomplishing their business, they marched off, talking energetically about the next thing on their schedule. 
Some members of C.A.L.L. also stood at the door, but were not let in. They observed the attitudes of security and the reactions of the students with surprise and sadness. 

Because the Notre Dame students they encountered displayed an utter lack of interest in the proceedings and no desire to listen, let alone address, their message, they muttered that, "the students here are lethargic." "How viciously untrue!" I replied, "Perhaps they are not interested in your cause. Or perhaps you are not offering the particular forum they want. Perhaps they think your tactics are too disruptive or not sufficiently productive. But I know that when my fellow Notre Dame students believe in something, they support it loudly, forcefully, and proudly! I know they have voices; I know 

is that many clinics provide health care. As for harassing Dear Editor: services other than abortions. (or "sidewalk counseling," as 
Last week, the radical pro-life Many, including the Women's screaming "Murderess!" is group Collegians Activated to Pavilion and Planned euphemistically termed) women Liberate Life (CALL) descended Parenthood, provide free preg­attempting to enter clini~s. it on South Bend and, on Friday, nancy tests, birth control and seems paradoxical to "counsel" protested the Women's Pavilion birth control information, gy­a woman going to pick up an­because the Pavilion provides necological examinations, ul­other month of birth­abortions. Saturday, members trasound, and prenatal care. controlpills. of CALL protested a Planned Parenthood clinic in For women, these services Say rosaries, carry placards,
Merrillville, Indiana, attempting are essential health care. When but please, please, please do to block access to the clinic. radical pro-life groups attempt not deny women and mothers to close a clinic, they are at­access to health care. Try to 
Radical pro-life groups see tempting to close an avenue of remember that it is abortion to closing a clinic as a victory and health care for women. which you are morally opposed, go to extreme and illegal means not health care or women-or to do this. They have laid down Clinics also provide this care so I hope. in front of clinic doors. They at about half the cost chargedhave put crazy glue in the locks. by a doctor in private practice. They have bombed clinics with For poorer women, and for Allison Rigo explosives and noxious students, clinics are often the Pangborn Hall chemicals. They have harassed only option for health care. March 22, 1993 
and, recently, murdered providers of abortion. Attempts to close clinics are 
inherently misogynist because What these radical groups fail they deliberately attempt to to realize, or choose to ignore, restrict women's access to 
Does 'divine truth' exist at ND? 
provide an impartial forum for ity," Sen. Moynihan would never Dear Editor: all ideas to be discussed, then it have received the Laetare 
I was greatly disappointed by must renounce its religious Medal. the editorial of March 22. It heritage and become a secular showed a fundamental misun­university. By its nature as a The Church states that derstanding of two very impor­Catholic institution, Notre Dame abortion under any circum­tant concepts: the responsibility has an obligation to promote stances is wrong, and that sup­of a Catholic institution to Catholic values and teachings. porting abortion is sinful. Canon uphold Catholic values and To Catholics, the teachings of Law states that any Catholic 
teachings, and the definition of the Church are the result of the who supports abortion, either a university. search for "veritas." The publicly or privately, is subject university has a responsibility to excommunication. If Notre First, a university is not, to provide this truth, undiluted Dame was as Catholic as The contrary to popular thought, a by political correctness, to its Observer states, then it would place where ideas of all types Catholic students. do all it could to eliminate this 
are tossed around. Rather, a evil, rather than have a university is a place where the Notre Dame has failed in this president who will not even truth is sought. This is regard. In its effort to become a pray for the unborn children evidenced by the motto of research university, Notre killed every day. 
Harvard University: 'Veritas," Dame has soft-pedaled Catholic which is Latin for "divine teaching to make it less offen­truth." Harvard chose to accept sive to the politically correct Neil Dube all ideas, and so renounced its universities of the secular Sorin Hall religious background in favor of world. If, as the editorial March 22, 1993 
becoming a secular university. claimed, Notre Dame "adheres If Notre Dame wishes to to to and fm;te.r:;~c;a,tpplif:.II).pral­
abortion rights' shadow 
Dear Editor: College professors. Renee 
We are writing in response to stated that "I represent Saint the current social movement Mary's College when I am at the among certain Saint Mary's family planning clinics. students and faculty, which has Therefore, stating that 'SMC brought about the posting of helps' at the clinics refers to flyers concerning "SMC pro­that. It makes sense. And a lot choice supporters." of signs posted throughout 
These flyers, which have Saint Mary's are not approved." been posted in the library, The latter part of Renee's hallways, and residence statement is true; various signs halls,write, "SMC helps from 4 posted throughout the campus to 5 p.m. daily and all day have not been approved by against the [pro-life] Student Activities. However, blockades." This call to pro­slanderous signs such as these abortion supporters at SMC has pro-abortion ones explain why been issued in response to the any signs posted on the campus recent pro-life rally that is should be approved. These being held in South Bend this signs should adhere to the "rich week. It is disturbing to think heritage of Catholic tradition" that these signs imply that Saint at Saint Mary's no matter who Mary's College wishes to wishes to display the signs. "protect your freedom of According to the 1992-1994 choice!" Student Handbook, Saint Mary's 
Within the mission statement College "accepts the Challenge" given by Dr. William Hickey, of the 1985 Pastoral Letter in president of Saint Mary's Defense of Life by Bishop John College, in the 1991-1993 Michael D'Arcy. Apparently Bulletin, he states that "As a Saint Mary's College supports Catholic college, Saint Mary's life and not "choice(?)", cultivates a Christian correct? community... " Does this If the current statements are Catholic heritage really have an that Saint Mary's no longer effect on the morals wishes to remain in the acknowledged here at Saint shadows of Notre Dame, then Mary's anymore? Apparently the movement for abortion not enough to adhere with the rights among the faculty and "Catholic tradition" and students is one significant "Christian community" of Saint change. Mary's. However, we'd rather stay 
We questioned Renee Young within the shadows of Notre concerning the fact that she Dame than be looked upon as and three other women would pro-abortion women. post the pro-abortion signs throughout the campus. Allison Lambert Renee's name and telephone Tracy Emery number appeared on the signs Kristen Artz along with the names and Holy Cross Hall numbers of two Saint Mary's Mar. 19, 1993 
MARCH 26-28 
weekend calendar 


f\-.-da'
'
.,  y 
I  
MUSIC  

Peter Dames and the Rhythm Flames,9:30 p.m., Madison Oyster Bar. Open Mike Jam Sesslon,9:30 p.m., Mishawaka Midway tavern. 
EVENTS 
Jolly's Comedy Club, 10 p.m., Holiday Inn Warsaw. Morrissey Film Festival, student produced films, 9 p.m., Stepan Center. Women's tennis vs. Miami of Ohio, 4 p.m., Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
MUSIC 
Gary Prlmlch Blues, 9:30 p.m., Madison Oyster Bar. Open Mike Jam Session, 9:30 p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern. 
EVENTS 
The Juggernaut, featuring Taproot Theater Project, 8 p.m., Saint Mary's. Pangborn Hall Price Is Right, 7 p.m., Library Auditorium, tickets $3. German Choral Tradition, concert, 8 p.m., O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's. 
s y 
MUSIC 
The Notre Dame String Trio, Department of Music, 2 p.m., Washington Hall, free admission. 
EVENTS 
Hall of Fame Game, 2 p.m., Bookstore basketball courts. Antique and Collectables Show and Sale, noon to 5 p.m., Concord Mall, Elkhart, admission free. The Juggernaut. featuring Taproof Theater Project, 
2:30 p.m., Saint Mary's. 

The Nasty Girl, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:30p.m. Under Siege, Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3, 7:25 & 9:25 p.m. CB4, 7:20 & 9:20 p.m. The Crying Game, 7:15 & 9:35 p.m. Homeward Bound, 5 p.m. Mad Dog & Glory, 7:45 & 9:50 p.m. A Few Good Men, 9:30 p,.m. Peter's Friends, 7:35 & 9:45 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST A Far Off Place, 7 & 9:30 p.m. Aladdin, 7:15p.m. Scent of a Woman, 9:15p.m. Untamed Heart, 7:30 p.m. Amos and Andrew, 9:45p.m. 

• 
I 


Why Do They Do 


Paul T.J. 
Imagine four guys and three girls sitting in a compact room trying to understand each other. This is what happened when Notre Dame seniors Paul Alban and Mark Adrian: Notre Dame [iunior Jim Primich: Notre Dame sophomore Dan Dimeo; Saint Mary's [iunior T.J. Neal: Notre Dame juniors Katie Russel and Kauita Pullapilly got together to discuss "the opposite sex. " They didn't quite see eye-to-eye on some issues, but perhaps each participant walked away with a better idea of "Why they do that?" 
Being a gentleman: 
Paul: I'd like to know nowadays why you can't open a door for a woman? I've gotten dirty looks for being a gentleman -I get a little sneer like, 'I can do it myself.' Kavita: I don't know why girls do that. I know I really appreciate it when a guy does that. T.J.: Yeah, most girls are traditional in that way. It's just like a respect that we're always wanting. The thing is I think guys are gentlemen in the first couple of dates, but then the doors stop being opened, the chairs stop being pulled. They just get lazy. Jim: I don't think that I do. T.J.: You guys don't think you do that, but 
Interracial dating remains controversial 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
Cultural diversity, ethnicity and race relations are recent issues brewing within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, as well the entire country. 
Yet interracial dating is a topic grazed with much hesita­tion and caution. 
"It will be a while before our nation has healed itself enough to accept interracial dating and marriages," said African­Ameican Notre Dame student Torya Tynes 
Tynes said that she has "mixed feelings" about interra­cial dating, but said that she could never envision herself in that kind of relationship. 
"No one, besides another black female, can understand what I go through day after day in this country," said Tynes. "But at least a black man can understand where I am coming from." 
Tynes said that on the same token she would not be able to understand nor relate to "a white man's life and culture." 
Gwen Kremer, a Saint Mary's junior, agreed that it is hard to relate to another culture, but that "it is possible if the person is willing to go the lengths." 
Kremer has been dating an African-American male for three years. 


Kavita 
you do. Kavita: And they tend to forget the little things, like complimenting a girl. Jim: Well, a girl should say nice things about the guy too. Katie: Guys like to hear that stuff ? Mark: Everyone likes to hear that stuff. Dan: It's an ego-booster. 
Analyzing and Over-analyzing: 

Katie: What I don't understand is why girls like to talk things over and guys don't. Paul: Girls over-analyze things. Katie: It just seems that we're looking for emotional intimacy and all guys want is... well, physical intimacy. Jim: I went to a conference once and they said a guy's sexual peak is at 17, right when the woman is looking for love. Women don't have their sexual peak until they're 27. By then ... well. T.J.: Oh geez. Kavita: But it seems that even if a girl gives the most blatant hints, the guy does not pick up on them. Dan: I wish girls would say what they mean, rather than hinting. .if you don't pick up on a hint, she gives you a look. Rather than play mind games, just tell it to us straight. T.J.: The thing is girls analyze with their friends too, and guys don't. 
Jim: I may talk to Mark: Yeah, themselves. Paul: I go to my 
Tricks and 
Dan: You sitting in girls and other, they conscious. I anything on my Jim: Something is when you're looking all aro T.J.: Yeah, but too, but they're stand there and Paul: Oh girls do Jim: I don't do th T.J.: I'm sure you it. 
The phone call: 
Kavita: The wo 'talk to you later, Jim: 'I'll see you of saying 'goo Kavita: Yes but, Dan: Do girls way? Kavita: Especially Katie: Everything 


STUDENT POLL: INTERRACIAL RELATIONSHIPS 
Can you see  Will society  Are family and friend  
yourself engaged  ever accept  pressures the primary  
in an interracial  interracial  reason for interracial  
relationship?  relationships?  relationships failing?  

5% Don't know 17% Don't know 


"Truthfully, when I brought Eddie [her boyfriend) home my parents didn't even say anything about him being African-American," said Kremer. 
But she said she feels they may have taken that kind of openness for granted. 
"I can tell when people disap­prove of it or look at us strange," she said. "It really just depends on the environment you're in," Kremer said. 
Notre Dame junior Amy Stoeckl is half Mexican-Ameri­can and half German. She too said that the environment plays an essential role in the accep­tance of interracial dating and marrying. 
"My mom grew up in a place where Mexicans married Mexi­cans, so it was kind of an issue when she married my father," said Stoeckl. "But what was more of an issue was their in­termixing of religions." Stoeckl's father is Lutheran and her mother is Catholic. 
"Interracial dating is a lot like 
Obo...-gr~ 

inter-religion dating," Tynes agreed. "It's not a matter of mixed colors, but an issue of the drastic, life-committing differences between the peo­ple." 
Stoeckl explained that her experiences were probably a bit different than others. 
"It was very hard growing up in a predominantly Mexican­American environment with a last name like Stoeckl, green eyes and blonde hair," she said. "No one believed I had any Mexican blood in me and it was hard to be accepted in general, let alone in serious re­lationships." 
Yet Stoeckl says she has "no qualms" about interracial dat­ing. 
"People should just be choosing on personality and compatability. Restrictions and limitations remove a Jot of good people from your life," she said. 
Tynes agreed with this con­cept. 
"I have nothing personally against it," she said. "But it's just not for me." 
hat? 
you're luc y, or a "cal me" blow-off (equal to the 
Accent Writer knife in the heart). But cheer up, men of Notre Dame. If you're ·sorry, Sean. but I just can't hold your hand in looking for female companionship, there is hope ublic. You see, ifpeople see us holding hands, it for a more pleasant (and cheaper) date: would look like we're engaged, and then I won't • The dining halls. Yes, I realize that this is not 
e asked to the Alumni Wake and then I may not highly creative, and meatless baked ziti is not the meet my future husband and ... well ... I'm just most romantic concept around, but it is cheap, not ready to take that big step. We can still be easy, and with some imagination, it can be fun. 
'ends. Oh, I knew you would understand ... Maybe your roommate will agree to act as your ·sean, where are you going with that gun?w waiter for the evening ("more Yo-Cream, monsieur?") It's enough to make you wonder if David • Picnics. If the rumors are true, and Sout Koresh went to Notre Dame. Bend does lift its ban on springtime, then th 
Of course, parilrtals and du Lac can both be campuses will be filled with places for romantic 'ted as Rasons w~ ibe dating scene at NO is ... meals with gorgeous views. Just make sure she ... nat everything your typical college guy doesn't wear anything fancy, because some grass 
would hope for. But, believe it or not, the dating and mud may be involved. 
e is not entirely the maliing of our beloved • The movies. Again, not entirely original, but dministratinn. cheap and effective if you pick the right "chick _For 81J.ys, the nmst basic date is the SYR/formal flick." Remember: Most women don't apprecia 
~hich maKm; sure all the guys get at least tbe subtle hu.or r4 Steven Segal. Don't ask me. I e da:te ea.dh.-------..,.--------------------.tiOn't know why. 
semester). For gll)IS~ H d Kewever, as with
geUillg a datB3s not as s·-· • -ny other y as it seems. Since a&gerous activity, 
e ·-a-1 ­
there ue ao~~e men --__-_-_-• • • • • · g should com 
than women ith a few warn­tmcluding s-a-int ________ -----------~--------~----------­ry's studenmt, finding a date can be a bit • Don't expect a lot of c.ommitment at first. strating. These women like to keep their options open. 
Of course, for men, these dates are easy to • Don't arrive on tima. She won't be read ress for. Everyone knows the SYR Uniform: Punctuality will only prolong your wait. khaki pants, white dress shirt, red tie, blue • Try your best to talk about intellectual stu lazer, and red rose wrapped in green tissue (art, -movies, music. etc.). Avoid politics like th per (courtesy of Irish Gardens). At this place, a plague, and don't talk about sports unless she radical" can be defined as anyone who does brings it up. 
something crazy and different, like, say, wearing • If anything goes wrong, apologi bow tie. immediately. ESPECIALLY if it wasn't yo..-fault. And, of course, there's finances to be Just assume you will be blamed for anything and nsidered. A typical SYR ticket runs from $5 to everything. $20. That doesn't count flowers ($5 average), • Don't be tno hasty to open doors, pick up t refreshments ($'10-20, depending on what you tab, etc. These are liberated women of the 90s. get and who is slopping by), drycleaning (after However, this dom;rrlt mean that you should make 
II, you have tD SJJiU something on yourself, or them open all their own dimrs and pick up th the night is not worthwhile) and so on. It's not entire dinner tab t:hemselves, and all that. After date, it's a ma.Jor ilwestment. all, they may be liberated, but they stilllllre to be Then, you hike on over (or lk-ivll o-vw, if you treated like women. refer) to pick up your c::taie. Is it just me, or are • Don't even try for physical intima~:: women never ready for a date when you arrive, Remember, we're all a happy Catholic family ven if you arrive 30 miButes late? here. Anyway, you g{) io your dance and have fun, • This adv~ is from a guy who thinks SYR but thanks to the administration, it all ends at shonld~d for "sorry, you're roasted," so take :15 a.m. with a simple '"81f8d night" hug, if it with as many grains ofsaltas you wish. Well. I'm. off to the Waco.compound. 
By JEANNE BLASI the SYR: the easy way out date. SYR's are great Accent Writer for the people who've been checking out those girls or guys in their 400 person chemistry Most people doubt whether dating actually classes but are too embarrassed to ask occurs on this campus. But, surprise, dating is themselves. Instead, they have their roommates alive and well at Notre Dame. do a few shots and call to ask for them, all the 
The high school dating is trapped in the SO's. time pretending it is really a blind date. A The stud guy comes to the door to pick up his fabulous aspect of the date is if you cannot stand date. After meeting her parents, he tells them your date, simply pretend to be incredibly drunk the movie title, dad assigns an arbitrary curfew and call it an early night. to his daughter based on how well he likes her The 'I'm Catholic, you're Catholic let's praise date, and they depart. They get to the movie and the Lord together' date: These daters are easily she cunningly leaves her hand on the armrest, recognized by their appearance and their bashful available for holding if her date gets really exchange of peace: 'Should I give her hand a daring. After the movie, they go for a soda, hook squeeze? Should I smile at him, or continue to up in the car, and he drops her off at her door look serenely holy?' Does anyone naturally look three minutes early. that decent by 11 p.m. on a Sunday night? 
The dating scene at Notre Dame has evolved The 'I refuse to spend $7 on a movie and $20 from this groovy ideal. If you look carefully, you on popcorn and pop but there's a good flick at will fmd people 'dating' all around in these new, Cushing' date. This date comes without the cheaper, less intimidating forms: hassle of getting rid of your roommates and 
The 'post hook-up dinner at Macri's' date: Any finding a VCR. The chairs are not conducive to Macri's veteran can recall these nervous hand-holding so it's a great place for nervous dehydrated daters hiding behind their big beers 'should I hold her hand or is it too forward' first­
~~;flt{~it~~~ Sh.e.·.········•·•·•·.·.:~:·.···•·········.•·.~.~ i d•.••.··.··l~f&~~i£:1~~
:: ,. ··~l.~.·..··.·.•.... a...·.·· .... ·.. Sharmg apreVIous mght. ·, ....·.. .. .. .·.•· · · .. . 
The 'I can't leave ·· • · · ····•· · .... ···· relationship with my books for a minute but would you like to join God takes on new meaning at this reverent place. me for an exciting night of studying at the Journey down to the grotto late on a spring night library?' date: Yes, even the prisoners of the and you will find numerous couples hooking up Notre Dame Alcatraz go on dates. You may even 'for the Lord' of course. Is this against duLac? find them in the pit sharing a coke on a {shudder The 'hey I'll meet up with you later at Bridget's at the thought) study break. Didn't you ever if you can wedge your body into the sweaty wonder why you could never get a group study disgusting bar' date: A great place for daters room at night? who don't know what to talk about on a date, or 
The 'I'm a freshman so I don't have a car but for those who just wish their date would shut up would you like to go to South Dining Hall with me for one second, especially if there is a band for some meatless baked ziti?' date: Well, we playing; you can't even hear your own voice, were all desperate without transportation, not to much less someone else's. mention jobs in our early years. What an The 'I've got some blankets and a case of beer ingenious way to have a date. It's like taking a so let's go shack up by the lake' date: Trying to date to your family dinner table. This is a find a quiet place to sit down around the lake on 'double-header' sort of date since it allows for a warm evening is virtually impossible. scoping of future dining hall dates. And, hey, the Blanketed bodies are strewn everywhere, price is right. breaking du Lac under the watchful eyes of the 
The 'come watch me sweat as I jam at the dome. If you think dating doesn't exist, stroll Acoustic Cafe and we'll get an espresso after-down to the lake where you will see hundreds o wards' date: What better way to impress your inventive couples trying to disguise their deeds date than by dedicating a song to her? If your and impress their dates. date shows up you're in, if not, you only undergo Now that I've uncovered the ND dating scene, a subtle rejection. look around-maybe you've already had a date 
Notre Dame's answer to the dating problem, without knowing it! 


friend, maybe. to keep to 
? When you're from a few ring to each feel all self­see if I've got 
akes me mad 
girl, and she's 
people. 
that eye thing cause they just and down. 



Marc 
you're more emotional about a guy. Jim: Why don't girls call us? Dan: I think a lot of guys are partial to a girl that'll chase them. It shows they're interested. 
T.J: But the girl never knows if the guy is interested. Mark: Neither does the guy. 
Rejection: 
Kavita: I think girls are more afraid of rejection than guys. Mark: Guys are just as scared of rejection. Kavita: Yeah, but it just seems girls have more at stake or something. Guys get scared off more quickly. T.J.: I think girls want the straight forwardness too, but they don't want to be the ones who say it. Mark: It helps if a girl is a little more assertive -it shows there's some interest. 
The overall scheme ofthings: 
Katie: The most frustrating thing is not being honest from the start. It seems just like a game we're playing. Paul: But isn't it fun? Jim: Yea, it's frustrating, but it does make life interesting. 
Edited by Kenya Johnson and Matt Carbone 

MC women break down barriers 
wonder about the mys-of life? Who was the genius behind the pop Krispies that makes time so exciting? How Peterson drink such us quantities of beer speak in coherent and matically correct ? And why can't Notre 
women and Saint Mary's get along? problem still exists, and 
has been slow in im­ng relations.This topic become such a 
become the targets of scrutiny in the classroom and on the so­cial scene. 
"I was at a party once, and a Notre Dame woman I had met the previous weekend came up to me and said, 'when I first met you, I really hated you because you were from Saint Mary's, but now that I know you better, I think you're really cool.' I still can't understand why it would even matter," said a Saint Mary's freshman. 
Some students, however, have managed to work their way through the cloud of stereo­
types to find that developing 
friendships with women across the street results in very positive experiences. "When I first came to Notre Dame two years ago, I was told all the general stereotypes about Saint Mary's women, specifically that they only go to Saint Mary's because they uldn't get into Notre Dame. 
Then I took a class across the street, and not only made a few new friends, but found the class more challenging than a lot of my classes at Notre Dame. I don't believe any of the stereotypes anymore," said a Notre Dame sophomore. 
"I have developed many friendships at Notre Dame and the majority of women I have met have been incredibly friendly," said a Saint Mary's sophomore, "If you are willing to overlook the stereotypes, I think both schools have a lot to offer." 
................. 

tive issue that of the women 
•t~<•m••n requested heir names be eld to protect 
onymity. ve all heard the of stereotypes that late between the Saint Mary's women, "SMC chicks," are 
dly not very smart and the coattails of Notre . Notre Dame women, "Domettes," are too competitive and a strange fetish for Yo-
member when I first here, I h<td a horrible first ession. There were 
opinion articles about Mary's being inferior and 
afraid it was going to be for the rest of my col­er," said a Saint Mary's 
these feelings several on both campuses have 

Page 12 Tuesday, September 24, 1991 
An argument defending the Catholic church 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a bone(Y 9od 
I lied last week when I wrote 
that I wouldn't mind if I an­
gered the whole world with my 
opinions. "0 who could have 
foretoldffhat the heart grows 
old?" 
As one of Notre Dame's 'male 
celibate priests,' recently 
bashed in an omnjym-gatherum 
broadside written by an 
Observer editor on her re­
tirement, I was left wondering 
who I am expected to apologize 
to, for being ordained. 
The fringe benefit from being Irish that tickles me the most is being able to laugh at myself when the chips are down. Dante had a vision of this world and the next, from the Love that moves the sun and the other stars, to Satan, packed upside down in ice at the depth of the Inferno; his literary journey is called "the Divine Comedy". 
The Catholic Church in which you received Communion last Sunday is a part of the Divine Comedy which Dante had in mind when he wrote. The Church is also as comic as a stage piece from the Theater of the Absurd, as we would discover if we stood l:>ack long enough to see the mock-heroics of the actors, who may be starting to believe that they are important as captains and kings. 
We should pray for the Comforter to send us laughter as a charismatic gift, until we can find a use for the love which descended on the Church at Pentecost. 
We could use it as a tranquillizer to improve our dispositions. It could replace the Eucharist until we learn not to waste the grace of His presence. That way, we might be able to smile at each other, dragging the little red wagons we've become enamored with, as 
though they were not toys at all, 
but children's crusades. 
All I really want to do as a 
male celibate priest grown long 
in the tooth is to go on record 
with the reasons I'm not happy 
with the liberals' agenda for re­
forming the Church. Soon the 
world forgetting, I will be for­
gotten. This column could be 
one of my penultimate last hur­
rahs, which I hope you will hear 
because I have a big ego. 
I don't want any of them to be my disciples, but I'd give my life to make them Christ's disciples, though I don't know where to go to register as a martyr-in­waiting. I want to keep the Catholic Church intact for them, for it is the only place on earth where they can unambiguously find Christ, though not as a flower child who attended Woodstock. 
When the Sister Act on the next quad starts pounding the pavement into a quagmire, agi­tating about the the injustice of the Church, refusing them the "right" to be ordained, I think I should tell them plainly: the Church I belong to doesn't allow people to think that they have a "rigt.t" to be ordained. 
I knew a Jesuit who spent 13 years studying for the priest­hood. In the year he was to be ordained, he was given the summer ofT for a little rest and relaxation with his family, During that time, his superiors found out that he was showing strong tendencies to become a playboy. Though he was an ac­

complished lin at in 
13 languages, they felt he would 
be a misfit, teaching as a Jesuit. 
He left the religious life regretfully but peacefully, be­cause he understood that a vo­cation to the priesthood wasn't something owed to him. 
Among my college contempo­raries was an outstanding young man who wanted to join his home diocese. He was re­fused entrance into the semi­nary because his family had a history of mental illness. 
My sister was hospitalized for a long time with mental illness, and I have wondered if her children or grandchildren would be rejected, if they ap­plied to the seminary, because of her history. I have wondered if she had gotten sick years earlier, if the Church, hearing about her, would have allowed me to become a priest. 
I'd applaud the struggle of any of the women struggling to be ordained, unless they were doing it for political reasons. 
Let's face it, prayer pardon­ers: the allegedly one, true Church may not be everything it's cracked up to be. We must, if it is threatened, draw the wagons in a circle to protect it. Even as a good, ol' boys club, it is better than no Church at all, 
Why should the bishops want to fill up the seminaries with students who hate the Church, and fume to send the Pope down to play for the minors? Why should they want to ordain anyone whose idea of progress is the liberal agenda? Do 
women envision themselves be­
ing ordained as celibates? I be­
lieve not. 
As married priests, would 
they abstain from asking to be 
divorced and remarried? Would 
they practice birth control, or 
seek abortions? I'm not sure 
that there's anything on the 
liberal agenda that the Church 
can't in time, reason its way to, 
unless of course it involves 
human sacrifice. 
But the Church must be allowed to proceed at its own pace to grow in awareness. Even if you think Dr. Ruth is smarter, the teacher you should be listening to is not her but the Pope. 
Is the Church reactionary? That depends on who is asking, Some churches which are not reactionary are Unitarian, Universalist, and Congregationalist. Having shaken off the dead hand of tradition, they will ordain any­body. 
Last week, I read an editorial, in which the writer anguished over the shape of the Church at the end of the millennium, lurching clumsily like a wounded giant. Perhaps the Church wouldn't seem so wounded if it didn't have friends who play the hypocrite. 
This S.O.B. keeps trying to put the Pope's feet to the fire with a demand for changes, and then insists that the Church is sick because the changes are not made. The Church might re­cover nicely from its wounds, if the writer would put out the matches that keep the Pontiff limping. If you were one of the malefactors who crucified Jesus, how logical would it be later to refuse to follow a Messiah with nail wounds in his hands? 
The Church which is heir to 

the truth of Christ and the wit­
ness of His Incarnation, has the 
endurance of the long-distance 
runner, It may not be the only 
church that preaches Jesus, but 
it's His centerpiece. Catholics 
who write ofT the Church as the 
grave of Christianity should stay 
mindful of Easter. 
I wish all the talking heads 
would find reasons of their own 
for defending the Church. If 
some of the liberationists were 
allowed to have their way, 
they'd tear down the Church, 
and have nothing to replace it 
with but their revolutionary 
zeal. 

Remember the chaos that Russia was left in, after the Romanovs were gone? What shape would the Church be in after undergoing the revolution that the liberated women would like, to impose on it, as soon as they start wearing mitres. What would become of the traditions beloved by the saints? 
Insisting that the Catholic Church foresake its dogmas is like knocking the horn off a Steuben-crystal unicorn, so that it will look like all the other animals in the glass menagerie. 
The sun never sets on the Catholic Mass, which keeps the Church alive like a heartbeat. You might find that your life is lonelier, if you didn't have the Mass. 
The celibate male priests justify their existence whenever they ofTer the liturgy. When you demean them, which is easy to do, you demean yourselves as Catholics. The desire to ordain women is no reason to take potshots at the priests we see trying to serve Notre Dame. 
The truth is that they put their pants on one leg at a time, the same as everyone else. But peace! Don't take it personally that I have told you all this. 

Happy 2151 Elizabeth 

NOTRE DAME 
Macor! 
Shouse with Attitude 

CLASS OF 1994 
will be in full effect 

Applications are now available for next year's
Saturday night... 

Senior Advisory Council at the Junior Class Office 
don't let this 
(2nd floor of LaFortune)
mama tempt you! 
Positions include: 
Love & Licks, 
Senior Month Chairperson Fundraising Commissioner Service Commissioner (2) 
Ho-Ho Hussies 
ND-SMC 
Social Commissioner (2) 
Students 
Publicity Commissioner 
20th Annual Summer Program 

• LaFayette Square Representative 
LONDON ROME 
May 19 .. June 18 June 13 .. July 12 
• Castle Point Representative rrravel in Ireland, Travel in France, 

•Campus View Representative 
$cotland, and France Germany, and 
•Turtle Creek Representative
Switzerland Courses offered in 
•Oak Hill Representative 
BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, 

Applications are due March 31, 1993
~DUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 

• All off...campus representatives must be living at
MEETING April5 
6:30 p.m. Madeleva Hall,Rcom 348 SMC • Free pizza 
that location next year.
Past students and faculty participants will be present For information call Prof. Black 
284,4460 or 272,3726 

Friday, March 26, 1993 The Observer p~qe 13 
~--------------~==============~~~----~~~~~--~------------~--~--~~ 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
On the offensive end, Hobart relies on attacker Cabell Mad­dox, a third team All-American selection, and midfielders Tim Watts (Co-Captain) and Bobby Wynne to challenge Notre Dame goalie Chris Parent. Parent is returning from the flu which limited his playing time to one quarter last weekend against UMBC. 
Acknowledging that his team is facing a hot goaltender in Parent, O'Hara believes that Hobart will have to "try and distribute the ball and get off a volume of quality shots coming from the cutters" in order to beat Parent. 
O'Hara says his team will have to do several things well to stay close with the Irish: "We're going to have to be respectful off the ball-try to keep possession offensively minimiz­ing Notre Dame's opportunities, avoid turnovers, and riding hard." 
Corrigan, however, prefers the simpler approach to the game, "The team that comes out and plays the hardest will win on Saturday." 
More allegationsagainst UNLV 
lAS VEGAS (AP) -UNLV of· ficials are investigating whether NCAA rules were vio­lated when the parents of bas­ketball star J.R. Rider were given free hotel rooms on the Las Vegas Strip. · 
Copies of Sahara Hotel records obtained by the Las Vegas Sun show the parents; Isaiah and Donna Rider. re• ceived the use of two fre,e hotel rooms Feb. 26·28; the weekend of UNLV's l!).st·home game against Utah State.. + ':' 
The investigation C()tnes>tol~ lowing reports that repruit Kebu Stewart received a plane ticket home to New York that also could have been an NCAA violation. 
UNLV legal counsel Brad Booke charged Tuesday that the air fare paid by a medical office manager was done at the request of a supporter of former UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian and was a setup designed to embarrass the school. 

Classifieds 
IU and FSU advance to final eight 
(AP) -Indiana thrived and Florida State survived. 
Calbert Cheaney scored 32 points, including nine during a key second-half run, as Indiana beat Louisville 82-69 Thursday night at the Midwest Regional semifinals in St. Louis. 
Florida State overcame poor free throw shooting and a missed 3-pointer at the over­time buzzer to defeat Western Kentucky 81-78 at the South­east semifinals in Charlotte, N.C. 
Both winners need one more victory to reach the Final Four in New Orleans. Third-seeded Florida State (25-9) will play Kentucky on Saturday, while top-seeded Indiana (31-3) will meet Kansas. 
Doug Edwards scored 19 points to lead Florida State to its first final eight since 1972, when the Seminoles eventually lost the national championship game to Bill Walton's UCLA team. 
Bob Sura and Sam Cassell hit 
3-pointers to give Florida State a 78-74 with 2:13 left in over­time, but the Seminoles didn't make another field goal the rest of the way and barely held off Western Kentucky. 
Trailing 80-78, Western Ken­tucky got the ball back when Rodney Dobard was called for traveling with 21.1 seconds remaining. But Hilltoppers' freshman Michael Fraliex threw the ball out of bounds, and Florida State's Derrick Carroll made one free throw with 5.6 seconds left to make it 81-78. 
Western Kentucky passed into the frontcourt and called time­out with four seconds to go. When play resumed, Fraliex passed to Cypheus Bunton, wh9se high-arching 3-point at­tempt bounced high off the rim twice before falling away. 
Florida ·State made only 18 of 38 free throws, including nine of 23 in the first half. It got so bad that Carroll got a standing ovation from his own fans when he made both ends of a 1-and-1 to tie 'the game at 61. 
Darnell Mee scored 21 points for seventh-seeded We ;tern Kentucky (26-6), which rallied after trailing by 11 points n the first half. 

Dobard, playing five day~ after breaking the big toe on hIS left foot, had 16 points. 13 rebounds and four blocks for Florida State. 
In St. Louis, Indiana wore down Louisville with its motion offense and tenacious defense. 
Cheaney, the Big Ten's (areer scoring leader, scored a l but two of Indiana's points during an 11-3 run that brok·l the game open and gavf the Hoosiers a 73-62 lead with 5:33 to play. 
Cheaney made 10 of 12 shots from the field and grabbed eight rebounds, while Greg Graham was 7 of 11 fro1n the field and finished wi1 h 22 points. 
Clifford Rozier led Lou sville (22-9) with 16 points. 
The Hoosiers shot 62 p1 rcent from the field, including many layups off screens and ;;hort passes. 
The Observer accepts classdieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.n. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar Co :ege Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepa· t The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • 3-5 person furnished house, SEC *&*&*&*&*& *&*&**& *&*&'&'& Mary O'Connor, SMC-ND SUMMER PROGR. 1MS Earn $2,000+/month +world travel Syst, wash/dry, Beach V-Ball, Prime LONDON
NOTICES (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, Locaton 233-9947. HEY JEN FOSS: Thanks for the birthday present. I'm (TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT.,EN·3. etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career open to receiving more brownies & FR.) AND ROME (TRAVEL IN employment available. N0 TOMORROW, BIRD HURTS YOU whenever you feel like making FR., GER., SWITZ.) UP TO I! 
TYPING 256-6657 experience necessary. For SUMMER SESSION -Visiting BAD. SORRY I WON'T BE them. COLLEGE CREDITS AVAILP BLE. employment program call Professors, grad students. AROUND TO CLEAN UP. YOU FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.R 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities. MIGHT BE THE FIRST PERSON Have a good weekend. And behave BLACK. 284-4460 OR 272-3 '26. AUDITIONS!!! AUDITIONS Ill $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call TO MAKE THE WALL 0' SHAME yourself. Auditions for this semester's Subleased apartment, 1 bdrm; Paul or Monica 232-2794. TWICE .... ND junior's sister & brother-ir -law directing finals are this Sat. May 20-Aug. 20. Chris (708) 231-Remember Big Brother knows all. recently lost 2 infants to gem tic and Sun. from 1-4 in the lab 6954 HAVE A HAPPY 21ST!!!!!!! And gets wiser with age. disorders. They would like to ;~dbpt theater. No experience Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2 a child. Large family w/ lots o love. necessary!!! Excellent financial opportunity for baths. Located College Park Peace and Love-marten If y;)u can help or know one v•ho AUDITIONS !!! AUDITIONS!!! hard working, responsible Condos. Corner of Bulla & can, please call x3314 or (51 ')531­
individual or club/organization, Ironwood. Must be responsible & *&I&*&*&*&'&*&&**&'&*&'*& HEY. COOTER!!! 3219 collect 

delivering The New York Times tenat $595 permo or Sale &65,900. Dissertations, Theses, newspaper on campus. Please Send info to PO Box 4075 South LOR REI Term Papers leave name & phone number for Bend IN 46634. STAND UP FOR Instead of $2 howbout a fem; le Word Works Typing Service Mike Mooney at CHOICE! Pregnant and feeling alone with no sexy legs contest instead 277-7406 1-800-535-5031. Will conduct Link arms with us again where to turn? We offer confidential snap-a-scam man 
interviews week of April 5. Summer Lease-Live With ND Tues. Wed & Fri counseling at no cost to you. For Grads in Alexandria, VA. TO PROVE WHAT WE FROM more information call Nancy at 232­CHICAGOANS Near Washington DC & Metro Call ND/SMC 5843. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
PHONE HOME!!! ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT (703) 461-2818 REALLY Notre Dame's Student Jazz -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in STAND Adoption: Doctor and teacher will LAST DAY TO BORROW: Band is playing Sunday canneries or $4000+/month on FOR make dreams for your baby come March 28. 4:30 at St. Barnabas fishing boats. Free transportation! Call236-9919 true. Full-time parenting. Best of the May Graduates: 2/1 ~93 Church, 10135 South Longwood. Room & Board! Over 8000 FOR SALE city; summers by the beach; your Alert friends back in Chicago!! openings. No experience baby rocked to sleep by a cozy All Others: 3131/93 For tix (312) 779-5788 necessary. Male or Female. For 1 ,400sft fireplace in winter, and by ocean 
employment program call 1-206-COND0'$60k'2BED/2BATH waves in summer. Art, music, the 545-4155 ext. A5584 w/FPLC & DECK. PERFECT FOR best education. endless love. Call Congratulations Karen and G na, STUDS/ALUMS. 272-5901 Franny or Stephen collect. and good luck next year! 
ILOST & FOUND! 
(212)369-2597. Monise S. and An 'Y Z. 
SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE Lost -Gold crucifix & chain before ENVIRONMENT-EARN $2500-1986 HONDA CIVIC BILLY JOEL ADOPTION: A loving happy home, break. Sent. Value 634-1817 Sean. 3500 Low mileage, great car financial security, and educational The Week on Treasure Islam 
National campaign positions to 631-7555 or 288-5794 opportunities await your newborn. *Top 13 Daytona Quotes* 
protect endangered species, We can help with your expenses. 13. Get your hand off my bac ~ I lost an emerald earring stud promote comprehensive recycling, Please call us collect: David and 12. What's this wet spot bad here? on St. Patty's Day. If found please, and clean the nation's polluted '83 Honda Accord for sale Rosemery (919) 288-4490 Let's 11. Hey, Sean, will you reach back PLEASE get in touch waterways. Available in Chicago, 22 Great Cond. & Gas Miles LaFortune Ballroom help each other. and grab my birth control pill~ ? with me. Thanks. states and D.C. Call Jamie toll free: Call Patricia 4-4305 Mon. March 29 10. WHat do you think about mal 
Heather x2988 1-800-75-EARTH. 9-10:30pm CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. ND sex? '87 HONDA CIVIC DX hatchbk Grad. Happily married for 4 years. 9. Do ya wanna smoke a join man? call Sherri @ 277-4269 for more Anxious to adopt newborn infant. 8. It'll make ya "feel good"! 
Lost dad's sleeping bag in front of SAILING SCHOOL DIRECTOR info Personal meeting welcome. Lawful 7. Look at the size of that wa 1et! the CSC. Have you seen it? Please, 1Owk season June-mid Aug, EUCHRE EUCHRE EUCHRE and proper pregnancy relatE>d 6. I french kissed a girl, then ;he if you know any info call x 4420. Salary $3000-3500 dep. on ND SKI TEAM Shirts B.P. EUCHRE expenses paid. Couple approved by walked away. 
exper. CPR/Lifesavin!J cert., Only $10 ... Call John x1160 TOURNAMENT Texas adoption authorities in 5. I'll pay you for a peanut bu ter 
teach. exper. desired. MAR CH 29 -APRIL 3 advance of placement. State and jelly sandwich. LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING. Resume to: St. Joe Jr. Sign up in dining halls TODAY supervised adoption procedures. 4. Wanna borrow my handcu Is, OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL Foundation, 1820 Niles, One way ticket to Newark, NJ or call Sheila at x1268 Call collect: David & Maureen we're not using them. VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL St. Joe, Ml49085 by Apr. 15 leaving South Bend on 5/17: $5/team (512) 452-3416. 3. X&8XOE28X You're the Jest. DINAMARIE "DIDI" GARCIA '93 ; Instruct. pos. also; ?'s call $100. Call Pete at 289-4278. CASH PRIZES for winners 2. Just a warning, your butt if going X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL. Diann 284-5262 Benefits Catholic Worker Got the March Madness to be sore in the morning. 
' 
House Munchies? 1. Girls have higher morals ..I ntil 92 HONDA Accord LX, Sneak away at halftime to they go on vacation!!! 
i
REWARD!!!! Lost set of keys ride anywhere b/t Des Moines/KG like new, 277-7071 . SUBWAY 
I

with Ren & Stimpy keychain for Easter Diane4x4828 before Spring Break. Call MONDAY., March 29th in 6" cold cut combo-still $1.49 000 THE COPY SHOP 00 
I
Ryan x1007. Lib. Aud. @ 7:30 pm. 6" tuna-only $ 1.89 in LaFortune Student Cente · FREE LECTURE!! Reception to QUALITY COPIES 
L...-------~1 I.___T_IC_K_ET_S~

FOR RENT -follow And always as low as 3~ each Lost: A pair of Polo glasses with !!!Help!!! daily footlong specials OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK black rims. Shows the Polo Need commencement tickets. emblem on the inside of each nose Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom Call Ken @ 1927 SEE ALEX KOTLOWITZ! SR 23 & IRONWOOD piece. Possibly left in South Dining House now for 93-94 school AUTHOR of THERE ARE NO 277-7744 Hall or Morrissey Manor. Please year 234-1886 CHILDREN HERE (Core text and call at x3508 and ask for Josh. best-seller) Coli, Jen, Sabol, Riley-a-ram 1,
PERSONAL 

MONDAY at Lib. Aud. at 7:30 P.M. SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 FREE II! reception to follow Just a few more weeks left I• • bdrms, close to campus, safe Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal CREAM YOUR FAVORITE prove what slothing seniors 
WANTED neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological LYONITE IS COMING!!!!!!! we all are. Me, Coli, Riley, utilities. Call Monica Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN ANDREA! !I!!!! are puming up a good show 
SUMMER JOBS 232-2794. 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. Sun. March 28 followed by Jen, hot on our ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Happy 21st Birthday! Sign-ups in dining halls ....... traii-SABOL-get on the ball! PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ONLY $1 THE CLOCK IS TICKING. 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES Drummer seeks guitar and Hope you have a good one. *proceeds go to charity* D-FOR DIPLOMA NEAR LAKE PLACID FOR NDISMC PARENTS. bass players for original band CALL 1-800-786-8373. 219-291-7153. Call Dave 1305 WALTER 

Friday, March 26, 1993 TheObseNer 
page 14 
~
_..._ ..... 0 :'"", ...... "'": :""': ;'"'":""': :"'" ""': ""': :..... ........ 
~ • • • • • . • • • • • :'S" ~ ..,
. 0 ..\... ..... . ...... ...... ...... . ...... ..... . "' 0 ( ..., ~-,.-.
. ..__, • : . : : . • . : : : : : • • : "':. \ fJ)' .__
.................................... ·.:..... "'-....... ~ ~ 
TRANSACTIONS 
NHL STANDINGS 
Second Round 
Saturday, March 20 
HOCKEYBASEBALL 
Tennessee 89, Northwestern 66
Notionol Hockey LeagueAmerlcen League 
Iowa 82, Old Dominion 56 
CALGARY FLAMES-Announced lhey are WALES CONFERENCE Sunday, March 2tMILWAUKEE BREWERS-Acquired Tom 
moving their farm learn from Sail Lake City In the Patrick Division 

Mure considerations. Oesignaled Troy O'Lemy, International Hockey LeAgue to St. John, New North Carolina 74, Alabama 73, OT w L T Pis GF Go\ Home Away Auburn 66, Louisville 6t 2t 6 too 306 238 28-6-4 t9-t5-2 l.Jimpkln, catcher, from the San Diego Padres for 
Brunswick, and will join the American Hockey x-Pittsburgh47 league, beginning next se;:"~son. Semifinals Washington 28 83 256 20-t8-1outfielder; Matt Maysey, pltct>er, and Mike Mathey, 
Regional 38 7 297 tB-tO~
catcher, for reassignment. MINNESOTA TWINS-Acquired Jeff 

SOUTH FLORIOA HOCKEY CLUB--lltarned AI Iowa City, Iowa New Jersey 36 32 6 78 270 262 22-t2-3 t4-20-3 Thursday, March 25 77 28t 20-tt-5 t3-t8~
Grotewold, catcher, from tne Philadelphia Pnlllles Dennis Patterson and Ron HArris scouts. NY Rangers 33 29 tt 268 

International Hockey League Tennessee 74, North Carolina 54 NY Islanders 34 33 6 74 293 262 17-t6-2 17-t7-4for Mea Lewlo, oulflelder, and assigned Grotewold 
Iowa 63, Auburn 50 Philadelphia tt 279 t9-t3-5 
to Portland of lha Pacific Coast League. KANSAS CITY BLADES-Signed Ron 28 34 87 29t 8-2t~ 
Handy, center. Regional Championship Adem• Division
SEATTLE MARINERS-Waived Greg 

SOCCER AI Iowa City, Iowa x-Montreal 45 25 6 96 306 25t 26-t0-2 t9-t5-4
Briley, outfielder, for lhe purpose of giving him hlo American Profeasional Soccer League Saturday, March 27 x-Boaton 43 25 7 93 294 252 26·9-3 17-tB-4
unconditional release. 

COLORADO FOXES-Re-signed Tennessee (29·2) vs. Iowa (26-3), 3 p.m. x-Quabac 40 24 tO 90 309 267 20-t5-2 20-9-8
TomNational Lugu• 

Stone, forward. x-Buffalo 36 28 tO 82 3tt 262 23-tt-2 t3·17-8
ATLANTA BRAVES-Optioned Shawn 

MIDWEST REGIONAL 2t 46 5 47 244 322 t0-22-5 tt-24-D
MONTREAL IMPACT-Named Pierre Hartford
Holman, pitcher; Javier Lopez, catcher; end MeMn 

22 0-35-0
Mindru and Paolo Ferrante assistant coaches. Firat Round Ottawa 9 60 4 t77 345 8-25-4 COLLEGE Wednesday, March t7 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
Nleve1 and Tony Tarasco, outfieldera, to 
Richmond of the International League. Sent Jey 
Clemson 70, XaviP.r, Ohio 64

NAVY-Named Greg Briner offensive Norrie Division Louisiana Tech 70, DePaul 59 w L T Pis GF Go\ Home AwayBailer end Randy St. Claire, pitchero, to their 
coordinator and quarterbacks coach. Promoted Denny Murphy, defensive line coach, to defensive Southwest Missouri Stale 86, Oklahoma State Detroit 4t 27 9 9t 330 257 22-t3-3 19-t4~
mlnor~eague camp for reassignment. 
CINCINNATI REDS-Sent Tommy Gregg, 

7t Chicago 40 24 tO 90 246 208 22-to-5 t8-t4-5Infielder-outfielder, outrlgt"tl to lndlanapolll of the coordinator and Mike Drake, quarterbacks coach, California 62, Kansas 47 Toronto 39 25 to 88 26t 2t5 23-t0-5 t8-t5-5American Association and Troy Afenir, catcher, to defensive secondary coach. 
Second Round StLouis 35 3t 9 79 253 246 20-t2~ t5-t9-3and JeH Kaiser, pitcher, to their minor-league QUINCY-Named Penny Lewis women'o Saturday, March 20 Minnesota 33 32 tO 76 250 264 13-t5-7 t7-17·3basketball coach. 
camp tor reassignment. 

Vanderbilt 82, California 63 Tampe Bay 22 48 5 49 2t9 286 t2-23-2 t0·25-3
FLORIDA MARLINS-Placed Scott THOMAS MORE-Named Matt Kofler 
SW Missouri St. 86, Maryland 82 Smythe DivisionChlamparlno, pitcher, on the 60·day disabled list. offensive coordlnalor. 

Louisiana Tech 82, Texas 78 x-Vancouver 39 26 9 87 303 239 24-t0-4 t5·t8-5Sent Nigel Wilson, outfielder, and Brian Griffiths 
Sunday, March 2t x-Calgary 36 27 10 82 278 249 20-t2-5 t6-t5-5and Jamie McAndrew, pltct>ers, to Edmonton of the 
32 303 21-13-4 t3-t9·3Padflc Coast League, end Gene Walter, pitcher, to NCAA -· Stephen F. Austin 89, Clemson 78 Los Angeles 34 7 75 296 
Regional Semifinals Winnipeg 33 35 6 72 275 285 20-t4-2 t3-2t-4their minor·league camp for reassignment. 
At Nacogdoches. TexAs Edmonton 25 42 8 58 217 295 t5-t6-5 t0·28-3HOUSTON ASTROS-Optloned Scooter Thursday, March 25 San Jose tO 63 2 22 t94 372 7-29-t 3-34-tTucker and Tony Eusebio, calct"ters; Orl!mdo 
NCAA Woman'• Baoketball Tournament 
Louisiana Tech 59, SW Missouri St. 43 v~lnr.hed olavott berth. 
Miller, Infielder; and Shane Reynolds, pitcher, to AI A Olanca Vanderbill (28·2) vs. Slephen F. Austin (28-4), Wednesday's GamesTucoon of the Pacific Coast League. Sent .Jm 
EAST REGIONAL 
30 minutes after preceding game. Boslon 2, Buffalo 0 Undeman, outfielder; Dean Hartgraves and Mark 
Fl,.l Round 
Regional Championship Montreal 6, Hartlord 5, OTGrant, Infielders; and Pnil Nevin, Infielder, to their Wednesday, March t7 At Nacogdoches, Texas Philadelphia 5, New York Rangers 4mlnor~eague camp tor reassignment. Rutgers 60, Vermont 7 4 Saturday, March 27 St. Louis 4, Calgary 2 NEW YORK MET8-Agreed to terms with Miami 6t, St. Peter's 44 

Louisiana Tech (26·5) vs. Vanderbi"·Stephan Vancouver 6, Los Angelea 2Brei Saberhagen, pltcner, on a lhree-year contract Georgetown 76, Northern Illinois 74 
F. Austin wimer, 7:30p.m. Thuraday'e Gamea
extension. Florida 69, Bowling Green 67 Boston 2, Montreal 0 PHILAOELPtiiA PHILLIES-Assigned Mica Second Round 
WEST REGIONAL T~mpa 8Ry 3, Ottawa 2, OT 
Lewis, outfielder, to Reading of the Eastern Saturday, March 20 
Firat Round Pinsburgh 4, New Jersey 3 
League. Georgetown 68, Penn State 67 

Wednesday, Mnrch t7 Washington 5, New York lsland11n1 2
Carotin• Lugue W""tern Kentucky 78, Miami 63 
Georgia 85, San Diego Stale 68 Philadelphia 5, San Jose 2FREDERICK KEY~amed Estelle Krieger Sunday, March 2t Nebraska St, San Diego 58 Toronto 3, Minnesota 3, tie
community relations director. Ohio State 9t, Rutgers 60 
UC Santa Barbara 88, Brigham Young 79 Buffalo 6, Chicago 4 
BASKETBALL VIrginia 89, Florida 55 
Washington 80, MontnnR State 51 Friday's Gamoa
Nalfonof Basketball Aaaoclotlon Regional Semifinal• 

Second Round Chicago al New York Rangera, 7:40p.m. 
NEW YORK KNICKS-Activated Rolando 
AI Richmond, Va. Blackman, guard, from the Injured list. Placed Eric Th<nday, March 25 

Saturday, March 20 Sl. Louis al Winnipeg, 8:40 p.m. Texas Tech 7"1, V\.':::tc:::hinqtnn 64 L0s Angr..l~s at EOrnonton, 9:40p.m.
Anderson, forward, on the Injured list. 
Ohio State 86, Western Kentucky 73 
Colorado 81, LJC S~r11a Barbara 54 C·-Jigary ~~Vancouver, 10:40 p.m.
Continental Boakotball Aoooclatfon 
Virginia 77, Georgetown 57 GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Placed Reggie 
Stanford 93, G~O"J'a 60 Saturday's Games
Raglonof Championship 

Sunday, March 2t N-~w JersP.y at Wac;hington, 1 :30 p.m.
Jordan, forward, on injured reserve. AI Rlclvnond, Va. 
Southern Cal 78, Nebraska 60 Pmghurgh at Boston, 1 :40 p.m.
LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Shawn Saturday, March 27 
Regional Semifinals Pl>ilndelphia at Quebec, 2:10p.m.
McDaniel, guard. Placed Richard Johnson, Ohio State (26-3) vs. Virginia (26-5), 1t a.m. 

AI Missoula, Mont S:m Jose Rl New York lslandera, 7:40p.m.
forward, on Injured reserve. 
Thursday, March 25 0 'troit "' hmpa Ray, 7:40p.m.
FOOTBALL MIDEAST REGIONAL 
H<ulforrl AI Minnesota, 8:10 p.m. 
Canadian Football League Texas Tech 87, Southern Cat. 87
Firat Round 
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed John Wednesday, March 17 Stanford (26-5) vo. Colorado (28-3), 30 Oll•wa al Monlrea\, 8:t0 p.m. mii"IJ!es efter preceding game. Toronto al Edmonton, 8:10 p.m.
L Hardy, cornerback. LouisVIlle 74, Connecticut 71 Old Dominion 77, Tennessee Tech 60 

Regional Champlonohlp Sunday'• Games ~ Missoula, Mont. Piflsburgn al Washington, t :30 p.m.
Alabama t 02, Georgia Soutnern 70 

Saturday, March 27 Los Anq<"IP.s at Winnipeg, 3:10p.m.
Northwestern 90, Georgia Tech 62 

O:~ilwa al nuttnlo, 7:10p.m. winner, 9 p.m. O·•Pbec ~~New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. 
Texas Tech (28-3) vo. Stanford-Colorado 


op 
OMORES--­
Schedule for Sophomore Sibling Weekend March 26-28, 1993 
Friday, March 26 
3:00..6:00 p.m. Registration Sarin Room 7:00p.m. Movie DeBartolo Room #101 
10:15 p.m. Ice Cream Social LaFortune Ballroom 
Saturday, March 2 7 
11:30.. 1:30 p.m. Lunch LaFortune Ballroom 
1:30..5:30 p.m. Free Time 5:30-p.m. Semi..formal dinner Center for Cantin. Educ. 
seating begins 5:45p.m. Dinner served CCE 6:45p.m. Guest speaker CCE 
9:00.. 12:30 a.m. Dance and raffle LaFortune Ballroom 
Sunday, March 28 
10:00.. 11:00 a.m. Mass Morrissey Hall chapel 
11:15.. 1:30 p.m. Brunch NOH Rooms A & Blue 

Friday, March 26, 1993 The Observer 
page 15 
Multi-talented Weed leads Belles• track Two teams await SMC softball 
By BETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Joann Weed, a Saint Mary's sophomore, has started this year's track season with a bang. 
Weed broke the Saint Mary's indoor shotput record with a 31'9" throw at their first meet on February 13th in Chicago. Not only did she break the in­door record of 27' but she also broke the standing outdoor record at the same time. 
However, Weed will have to wait until this weekend's first outdoor meet at Wheaton Col­lege in order for it to be offi­cially recorded. 
Weed began running for Sid­ney High School while she was still in the eighth grade. Her school was one of a few in New York with a winter track season, which enabled Weed to get in five extra track seasons. It was also one of the few to have both a running coach and a field events coach. 
"I did a lot of running my first few years." noted Weed. "I would run anything under a 400." 
Weed was the Sectional 400 meter hurdles champ her sophomore year. However, she developed tendonitis and stress fractures by the spring season of her junior year, and was forced to quit half way through the season. 
"I knew that I didn't want to give it up," said Weed, "so that's when I started doing more field events." 

~l!:~~-~.~'it~ ~~.::~neSt. Hours: ;~~~~~~~tb l;~·m· 
. f.. (219) 255-5214 Srmday 12:30..7 p.m. New, Healthy Korean Menu! Lunch Buffet: Tues-Fri 11:30-2 p.m. $4.95 all you can eat. Open Sunday for Dinner Buffet: 12:30-7 p.m. All you can ear. Includes: braised hot pork, chob chac, sweet and sour pork, soups, appetizers, salads, fruits and desserts. All for only $8.50. 
Weed led the Sidney High School girls track team to five consecutive section champi­onships as well as being awarded the Scholar-Athlete award in 1991. 
After sitting out her freshman year at Saint Mary's, Weed is excited to be back in the sport. "I was a little overwhelmed my first year at Saint Mary's," she said. "Track was not a top priority, I was just trying to get through being here." 
Weed participates in the shot put, the triple jump, the 100 meter dash, and will be at­tempting the javelin throw for the first time this weekend. 
"Joann adds a uniqueness to our team." commented Coach Szczechowski. "She always works hard and gives great in­spiration to the rest of our teammates." 
Weed will be leading the Belles as they compete in their first outdoor meet this week­end. 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
They say that good things come to those who wait. After waiting to return to campus be­cause of the storm, and then waiting to begin their regular season because of the weather, the Saint Mary's softball team hopes that this stands true. 
The Belles open this after­noon at home against Anderson College and then travel down to Wheaton College tomorrow. 
In Orlando over spring break, the Belles easily defeated Anderson 13-7. However, Anderson's main pitcher, who according to their head coach Larry Holloway is not quick, but is consistent and can throw strikes, will be back for this game after missing the contest in Florida. 
Also important in this contest will be the strength of Anderson junior Kim Lawson. Although this is Lawson's first season in softball, she has really come through as a team leader, coach Holloway noted. 
She had two hits in as many attempts against the Belles and came back from Florida with a . 580 average. 

Going into these two games, much attention is focused on the eight freshmen beginning their first regular seasons as members of the Saint Mary's softball team. 
Coach Don Cromer was pleased with performance of the freshmen in Florida and is looking forward to beginning the regular season. "The team has really become competitive and is much more close-knit than I've had in the past. This is my most exciting year at Saint Mary's." 
One freshman the Belles will be looking to is Tina Brockman, who started at third base for the Belles throughout the spring break tourney. 
Tina says that she is, "excited to play. The upperclassmen have made us feel comfortable and have helped us to play better. I think that we should do pretty well." 
The Belles will also turn to freshmen Michelle Limb and Laura Richter, both of whom are starters on the mound. 
· Tomorrow's contest between the Belles and Wheaton will be the first ever between the two. 
Today's contest will begin at 3 
p.m. at the field behind Angela Athletic Facility . 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. 
Contact Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540 for more information. 

NOW AVAILABLE! 
Custom Engraved Luggage Tags Blue & Gold with ND Logo 
Varsity Shop JACC 
NOTRE DAME PRE..LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS 
Visit the University of Michigan Law School on Friday, April 2 

call Aaron at 273-0663 

~\~GTON Coo. V~ Cal/255-7777 ~J> 
Do you have the summer time school blues?? Come live at Remington Court during summer school, and relax in luxury between classes. We have junior one bedrooms that will give the privacy ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, orjust to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located on Main Street between McKinley and Edison 



257 .-1100 

"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273 --2EAT 
$2 off any pizza with Student ID 

page 16 The Observer Friday, March 26, 1993 
Men's track to be represented Split squads open women's outdoor season 
By MIKE NORBUT in the shotput, Sarah Riley, Emily runners Kristi Kramer andat three different contests Sports Writer Husted, Stefanie Jensen, and Eva Becky Alfieri to have strong 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame Men's track team will compete in three different meets this weekend. The meets will be held at North Carolina State, Eastern Kentucky and Purdue. 
Notre Dame's field events are sending strong contingents to each of the three meets. 'Tve worked them pretty hard this past week so I don't expect anybody to set a personal record (P.R.) If it happens, great, but I don't expect it," assistant coach Scott Winsor said. 
At Eastern Kentucky high jumpers Todd Johnston and Ray Holder will compete. At N.C. 
Flood. The team will be running days. Freshman
John Cowan and Keith O'Brien The Notre Dame women's returning to formal competition standout Erica Peterson shouldcomprise the 4 X 1500 meter 

relay team. John Cowan and track team will be splitting up after a much needed month of help support the team in the Andrew Burns will also com­and traveling to two different rest, according to coach Joe sprinting categories. 
destinations this weekend. 
Piane. Notre Dame will be without the pete in the 3000 meter steeple 
While the bulk of the team will "Our kids services of Riley, Jensen. Harris,chase. 
be competing in the Eastern have had an or Rachel Kavanaugh, who willFellow distance runner, Shane 
Kentucky Invitational, four extensive fall be participating in the RaleighDubois commented, "Cowan's 
members of the team will be and a long Relays. Riley and Jensen willrunning really well and I 
going to North Carolina on Sat­indoor season," run in the 5000 meter run, while anticipate he'll have a good performance this weekend." urday for the Raleigh Relays. commented Harris and Kavanaugh will 
These meets will mark the Piane. "A compete in the shotput and 
Other distance runners ap­opening of the outdoor season Stefanie Jensen break was discus events. They will be 
for the Irish, who last competed defmitely needed." facing some tough east coastpearing in the plethora of com­
petition this weekend are Joe in the Alex Wilson Invitational. Louisville, Miami of Ohio, and competition, including North held at the Loftus Sports Center the University of Kentucky will Carolina. North Carolina State,
Royer and Michael Dierks. Joe 
Dunlop the freshman from 

Grand Island, New York will individual efforts were turned in Eastern Kentucky Saturday. The prepare to start the outdoor leg by Karen Harris, who took first Irish will look to distance of the 1993 track campaign. 
also compete this weekend. Dunlop will run the 5000 me­ters in Eastern Kentucky. The freshman who had some ster­ling performances during the cross country campaign returns 

'Illke a Break at Bonnie'Ooon 
State high jumpers Todd to competition after a lengthy 
Come on in to Bonnie
Herman and Brian Headrick knee injury. and discus throwers John 
Doon and relax with friends Smerek and Stuart Tyner will A contingent of the Notre 
and great food. 

compete. Dame track and field team will 
Show us your student
also compete in Purdue. This "I'm not going down there group is comprised of freshman 

ID and we'll give you a 10% with the attitude that we'll have Tom Mescall, shot put and 
break on the cost of your
bad performances. Hopefully hammer thrower Mike Fleisch, 
purchase!

performances will continue to Dan Grenough in the pole vault get better," Winsor said, noting and David Platt in the Javelin. that Smerek has been looking good in practice this past week. 
"At this part of the season. it's just more of an opportunity to compete against athletes and a chance to hopefully get to some decent weather," he continued. 
Members of the men's dis­.--tance running squad will also make performances this week­
Morrissey Manor
end. In North Carolina State, Eric Fasano, Andrew Burns, 
invites you to its 5th annual 
Film Festival 

Friday, March 26, 9:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
(An evening of student-produced films) 

Free admission, donations accepted for St. Hedwig's Outreach Center. 
Stay for the Music 
127 N. Main 

See you at the movies!
South Bend 





--~--~----~----------------------------------------------­
Friday, March 26, 1993 The Observer page 17 
continued from page 20 
season, will also fence in the individual portion of the championships on Tuesday. 
Competing in her first NCAA tournament, Vogt maintains that the success of the team as a whole is her first priority rather than her individual performance on Tuesday. 
"This really means a lot to me," 
Piper 
continued from page 20 
whole team. 
This year's regular season success is not enough for Piper. His successful junior season (22­
5) ended with a disappointing 25th place finish at the 1992 NCAAs. As a sophomore, he finished a surprising 16th, with a of my goals all year." 

Vogt will be joined by freshmen Claudette deBruin and Mindi Kalogera, and junior Kim Arndt in leading the team competition. 
The men's epee squad also takes some momentum into the NCAAs after a strong finish at the Regionals. Their success will depend on the efforts of junior Greg Wozniak and seniors Geoff Pechinsky and Per Johnsson. The men's sabre team failed to qualify for the finals. 
26-5 record. Now Piper has something to prove as an individual in the post-season. 
"I'd like to fence strong in the individuals on Saturday," he said earlier this week. 
Perhaps because of his shaky post-season history, Piper re­mains focused in the weekend's competition, his final per­formance for the Irish. 
"For now, I'll concentrate on the fencing," he said. 

Women's tennis hopes to roll at home 
By AlAN AKEY Sports Writer 
Home, sweet home. 
For the Notre Dame women's tennis squad, the friendly con­fines of the Eck Tennis Pavilion definitely qualify as sweet. The Irish, plowing their way through a seven-match homestand, have won four in a row at the Eck, their longest winning streak of the season. 
Notre Dame hopes to extend that streak to six this weekend when they host Miami Univer­sity (Ohio). and 19th-ranked Clemson. If the Irish display half as much power as they did in last weekend's consecutive shutouts of Drake, Michigan, and Kansas State, victories over the Indians and the Tigers seem almost certain. 
Head coach Jay Louderback feels confident that despite his team's recent blowouts, the women will not look past this weekend's opponents. 
"We've been playing well for quite a while now, not just last 


~!:CLUB 
Don't miss Cliff Erickson's annual performances on his national tour. 
This Friday 8 Saturday IO•Z 
Club opens at 9, come early for the best seats. 
must be 21: 
weekend," he said. "If we play just as well against Miami as we have been the match shouldn't be a problem, but if we don't it could cause problems for us. With Clemson, it should be an even match, and an exciting one to watch." 
Miami enters Friday's matchup with the Irish as the 5th-ranked team in the Midwest region. The Irish, also members of the Midwest, are ranked second. 
"Miami is always a solid, well­coached tennis team," said Louderback. "They also always seem to be very scrappy." 
A win against the Indians would up the Irish record to 7-0 within the region and move them a step closer to the Mid­west's automatic NCAA berth. It would also increase the stakes in the Irish's April 18 meeting with the Midwest's top­ranked team, Indiana. 
"If we don't qualify region­
ally, then there are basically 
twelve teams fighting for the 
remaining six spots. But all we can really do right now is go out and win our matches." 

Among those twelve squads fighting for the six at-large bids is Clemson. The Tigers come to the Eck Pavilion on Sunday ranked 19th by the ITA, and on a roll after upsets of 12th­ranked Brigham Young and 14th-ranked Miami (Florida). 
"While Miami (Ohio) may be stronger at the top of their lineup," said Louderback, "Clemson has had more success in the bottom half, especially at the number-four and number­six singles spots. Emma Peetz, at number six, is 13-0 this season." 
The Irish may attempt to counter Peetz with Holyn Lord, a standby for much of the sea­son at number six. The fresh­man has compiled a thirteen­match win streak but has re­cently jumped higher in the lineup. 
Friday's match against the Indians will begin at 4:00, while Sunday's match versus Clemson is scheduled to start at noon. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

good wins. It's a good opportunity to play a top guy. 
"He's a real talented player-a good athlete and a flashy-type player." 
The rest of the LSU's singles lineup is equally as potent. Fin­land native Juha Pesola mans the second spot and is 11-1 on the year and ranked 32nd nationally. Michael Wesbrooks is ranked 90th and sports a 21-6 overall singles record. Wesbrooks, who will play third-singles, is an aggressive serve-and-volleyer with a strong backhand. 
The Irish counter this depth with Chuck Coleman and Mark Schmidt, who both went undefeated at the Blue-Gray and are playing possibly the best tennis of their careers. Schmidt has not lost since the Texas match on March 11 and Coleman not since Pepperdine on March 6. 
The doubles matchups look to be equally intriguing, as LSU's El Sawy teams with Alex Guevara to produce a strong number-one team, and Wesbrooks and Pesola are 11-1 at the No. 2 position. Chad Dudley and Ryan Ideta (10­
4) will likely challenge at three­doubles. 
Meanwhile, after the Coleman­Forsyth tandem at the No. 1 slot, the Irish could go with any combination of players. Look for Mark Schmidt and Todd Wilson, who went 3-1 at the Blue-Gray, to team up at the second slot and senior Chris Wojtalik to play with either freshman Mike Sprouse or senior and four-singles player Ron Rosas at three-doubles. 
.,­


page 18 The Observer Friday, March 26, 1993 
Softball travels after two weeks inside 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
After two weeks ofT from com­petition, the Notre Dame softball team travels to Rock Hill, SC for the Winthrop National Tournament. The Irish, with a record of 8-6, will play for the first time since March 14, because of inclement weather conditions. 
"We're eager to play since we've had ofT for so long," said senior co-captain Staci Alford. "We're anxious and excited to get outside." 
The tournament format calls for the Irish to play 3 games on Friday, with the top two teams from their bracket advancing to Saturday's final round. On Sat­urday, it's possible Notre Dame could play four games if they continue to win. 
"We'll take it one game at a time," said coach Liz Miller. "Winning the tournament is reachable if we play tough." 
Since it is a national tourna­ment, some of the best teams in the country will be competing against the Irish. Notre Dame's bracket contains the University of South Florida, Winthrop Col­lege, Mercer University and UNC-Charlotte. Some of the other powers in the pool include South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia. 
"South Florida is the best team in our bracket," said Miller. "Unfortunately, we play them in our first game." Notre Dame will take the field at 9:00 AM Friday morning against USF. 
"We didn't .play well in our morning games over spring break," realized Miller. "Our goal is to play stronger earlier in the day." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball XXII prelims will begin Wednesday, March 31. Schedules are available in the S.U.B. office in LaFortune. The Notre Dame Rugby Club will be playing Kalamazoo Men's Club on Saturday on Col. Stephen's Pitch at Stepan Fields, wtih three games beginning at noon. The NDISMC Equestrian Club will hold a m:eeting about the Culver show on Monday, March 29, at &:30 pm, 222 Hesburgh Ubrary. If you have questions, call Megan at 634-2784. If you are showing at Culver, call Katie at 284·5520  
I  BarNGiill at Edison Lakes Rocks in March Friday, March 26-­St. James and the Prophets Saturday, March 27­Freddy Jones Band 211 E. Day Road ~\6\ MishawakaFa>'" 2S9,6ooo  

Classes held In JACC, Rolfs, and Campus Lakes $8.00 class fee Includes equipment Call RecSports at 631-6100 for more Information 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 

LACROSSE 
vs Hobart Loftus 2:00PM 

.. 
Baseball looks to rebound at Xavier 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
After a tough series against Kentucky, the Irish baseball team is looking to build upon what happened last weekend and to be ready for this week· end. 
The Notre Dame baseball team (3-6} opens conference play this weekend with a four­game series against Midwest­ern Collegiate Conference foe Xavier {2·11). The Muskateers will undoubtedly be pumped to play the Irish, tagged by the MCC coaches as the top team in the conference. 
"Xavier is a totally new team with a new coach," said senior captain Eddie Hartwell. "They're coming out ready to play. They are ready to beat Notre Dame.'' 
Xavier frrst-year head coach John Morrey is expecting a hard-fought series. 
"Obviously, it's a top-20 baseball program and we expect them to be at their best for the conference opener," said Morrey. "Our goal is to make it interesting." 
The Irish will be led once again by its pitching staiT with Chris Michalak (3-0, 7. 77), AI Walania (0-2, 8.44), Tom Price (0-1, 10.38), Dave Sinnes (0-1. 
10.45) and Tim Kraus (0·1, 
16.20) seeing time on the mound in the games. 
Morray is impressed with Notre Dame's pitching staiT. 
TLJrtle Creek A 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios 
Pool & Volleyball 
Laundry Facility 
t'JD Shuttle Service 
Uty Bus Line 
2/10 of a rnile from campus 

Affordable Student Housing 
"Obviously, they have great pitching. The upperclassmen have had great careers for them. The question remains whe.ther we will be able to score off those. pitchers. Michalak is an outstanding player and just one of the pitchers at the top of the rota­tion. There are a lot of people in the country who would trade pitching staffs with Pat Murphy," said Morrey. 
For the Musketeers, Tony Pezzica (0-1, 5.27) is slated for a Saturday game while T.R. O'Brien (1-3, 2.51) will be one the mound on Sunday. Brian Hindersman (0·1, 6.26) will likely start one of the games. but the final starting job is still questionable. 
Xavier will try to best the Irish pitchers with a line-up which includes junior Keith Oerther (.455, 10 RBI), senior John Dressman (.220, 8 RBI) and hot-hitting freshman Sean West. West is hitting .269 with three doubles, two triples and a home run. 
Notre Dame will feature the same line-up that has been used of late. Rowan Richards will be in centerfield on a regular basis after the departure of Steve Verduzco. 
Xavier started out the season with a win over Austin Peay, but then hit an eight-game losing skid. The Musketeers have currently lost five in row heading into the weekend's games. 


PickThreeFor $6.99 
D GrilledScallop:;  D FriedScallop:;  
D GrilledShrimp  D FriedShrimp  
D Grilled F1sh  0FriedF1sh  

(Hint:There Are No WrongAnswers.) 
Deciding which to have won't be easy. Will it be the grilled scallops, the fried fish and the grilled shrimp? Or the grilled fish, the fried shrimp and the fried scallops? If you can't decide, don't worry-they're all great and cooked to be moist and tender. And served with Potato, Bread and the 
All-You-Care-To-Eat Soup, Salad and SHONE~~ 
FrUit Bar, no matter what you get, you'll be a winner. Offer available for a limited lime at pamcipaung Shoney"s. Seafood c:ornbo ., 
Seafood Bar Fri.-Sat Starting At 5 P.M. 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
Now Accepting 
Applications 
In preparing for the tourna­ment, the team has worked out daily in Loftus. "We're fortunate to have a good indoor facility," commented Miller. "I'm not 

The Observer I Jake Peters 
Freshman Kara Brandenburger returns to strengthen the Irish pitching staff for the Winthrop National Tournament. 
worried about it, because some other teams are in the same sit­uation." 
"Practicing inside began to take its toll." said co-captain Ronny Alvarez. "It's been hard to get up for practice. It might make us flat for the tournament." 

The time off has given the Irish a chance to get some injured players healed. "We're still hurting a little, but our girls will step up." said Miller. 
The pitching staff will be strengthened by the return of freshman Kara Brandenburg. 
Joining her in the rotation are freshman Terri Kobata, senior Carrie Miller, and Alford. Ko­bata has had the most success thus far, compiling an earned run average of 0.57. Her record is 3-1 while holding opponents to a paltry .167 batting average. 
Carrie Miller boasts a 1.28 ERA and a 2-2 record, while Al­ford sports a 1.80 ERA and 2-3 record. 
"Terri will pitch game one." said Miller. "We'll make the other decisions later that after­noon based on what I see from other teams." 
OITensively, the Irish have not been impressive. In their 14 games, they have a cumulative .189 batting average. Junior first baseman Stephanie Pinter leads the team with a .270 av­erage. Other leaders include Sara Hayes (.261), and junior shortstop Christy Connoyer (.256). 
"We need everyone in the lineup to be more aggressive at the plate," realized Miller. "Our leading hitters need to get some confidence and take a step up." 
After this tournament, Notre Dame will open their home sea­son at the new complex on Tuesday afternoon against Indi­ana. 
r-----------------------­
Chinese -American 
Restaurant & 
Cocktail Lounge 
1\.ulhentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Be. 
Oriental ReSWl\rant'
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana ll>' ' ' 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
Mic.:hiana NowI
(next to Randall's Inn) 
Casting &Angling 
,
Today 

Friday, March 26, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER  JAY HOSLER  THE FAR SIDE  GARY LARSON  
W£U 1KIDs, ni/:5 /NV£NT/ON 'IS SVRE TO I?ETVRN Ya.J TD YO\IR i\[))1.-T BODI&S· I. CAt-L­IT 1ltE' PVBE·A --rn::t.l  JF Tfl£ Pt!BE-A-H.oN CAN TAKE US 1D AN'j f\61£, WI-I'/ DID YD~ NANlG IT f\FT€R PVB£RTY." I  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\-1\'S\QR'i 'f.l\LL 1111\~K \'1\~ 

I>.."S ON~ Of 11-\0'S~ RI\R'C. toR k.t.£1>\NG Tf\.\'S ..l~\JR.~t\l 
\N.Il\'1\QIJt-..lS 1)('51\~~Q FOR AT SUC~ 1\ ~0\JNG ~­
"W.Ilt. GRH.iNES'S, n\l"i Rt.c.~ 01= M~ 11\0JGI-\\S t>..N.D 
COI\'1\CD0~5 Will I'RO'I\1)~ 
INIJI\ll.lt>-.\Slt. IN.S\<S\-\1 \N.\0 
B!JDDING-GEN.\\JS. 
~I 


CROSSWORD 
BILL WATIERSON 
1\-\IN¥-01= \T.' 1\ PR\Ct.lt.SS 
1-\\'S\<JR\Cfl.-l l)c}(ljM£.\'\1 \~ 
n\E \<\1>.1<\NG ! WON ! 



Crossword 
ACROSS 25 TV messages 26 Seasonal bug 
1 "Sweet Liberty" 27 Edits anew
star 5 Sunshade? 
32 Distressed lass?

eA hairdo 35 FliSS12 Kind of shift 36 Violinist Bull 13 Grill sizzler 
Edited by Eugene T. Maieska 
53 A crowd, in Cremona 56 Far from 
altruistic 60 Small penguins &2 High silk hat 63 Abe called the 
Navy "Uncle 
37 Straightens, in a Sam's-"

15 Blessing 
way 
65 You were: Lat.

1&Abe's mom 
39 Dirty-tricks man && Deejay?

18 Fashion 
42 Cato's 1,200 67 Carroll creature 

designer 
43 Fall to &a Confined

Gernreich 
&9 Round sound 
45 Fibber and Molly 70 Dirk of yore 19 " ... sing a song 

-again": Yellen 46 Disparage 20 Like Coleridge's 49 Eureka! 
DOWN

Mariner 50 Actress 22 U.S. humorist Hartman 1 Co-Nobelist in Literature: 1966
23 Hercules' dirty 51 Ponte Vecchio doz. river 2 Foliaceous 3 Frug or jig 4 Chief 5 Large supply 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
& "My Way" lyrist 7 Hatchery e " ... but never 
" 
9 Eighty, to Abe 10 Mandrels 11 "Step-!" 13 "The ballot is 
stronger than -":A.L. 14 Roseanne, once 
1701d-, 
Disney dog 21 Laugh-track part 
26 Seminoles' sch. 


28Asnerand Ames 29-inChief 
(A.L. in 1861) 30 Swiss painter 31 Sun. talks 32 Kind of bell? 33 Suffix with utter 34 Loser to A.L. in 
1864 38-hepatica 40 Bounced back 41 Turkish title 44Cachar, e.g . 
47 Overrun, as 
vermin 48 Pacific porgy 52 "Streamers" 
playwright 53 Attach 54 Female 
sandpiper 
No. 0212 
55-Lauder 58 Flight part 57 Gael's land 58 Clout 59 "Next of skin" 61 Fliers: Abbr. 64 Bikini top 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
-. 


lications now available 

... 
Sports 
page 20 

Friday, March 26, 1993 
Lacrosse to face untested Hobart 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE the Irish this weekend. For Hobart, who comes to Sports Writer Notre Dame after training in Colorado over their spring break, this will be their first game of the season, and 
One cannot rest on one's laurels is the proverbial therefore provides several interesting angles to this warning, and this cannot be any truer for the Notre match-up. Dame lacrosse team. First of all, Notre Dame has had five games to gain 
After jumping into the United States Intercollegiate experience on the young season while Hobart's young Lacrosse Association's latest poll at #16, the Irish (5-0) squad will not have been tested except in scrimmages have to turn right around and face off against Hobart against the Air Force Academy and the University of College (0-0), the #2 team in Division Ill, Saturday Colorado. afternoon at 2:00 in Loftus. Hobart coach B.J. O'Hara is somewhat apprehensive 
Don't let Hobart's Division III status fool you, they are going into Saturday's match-up. "Although we are a very good lacrosse team that should really challenge pretty pleased with how practice has been going, we -. ~are an awfully young team with 16 freshman,
F:_· -•.-f :; 
; --~~~~. '--*:§S jf;§JC' .e:;:~~;:, ~~! ~:i~entally frail going into this first 
-)_ -a r -:=-c-::=;... . wt_-.. i ___ 
.. · • _....., • .--­

-
~~ -::-~ •=~­
_. 1 .. • . ' 
·. ~ 7
7 
...-~81-'w '!"". • 
_'-'
' 
J_, ~ 
.,;:­
---· ..t Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan views the ·: game in two ways. "I look at this game as a double-edged sword because we've had five games to get game experience while they haven't had any, but on the other hand they've had five chances to scout us and two weeks to prepare for the game," he explained. A second key to the Saturday's tilt will be the experience factor. Except for the defensive line, Notre Dame starts a majority of upperclassmen while Hobart has an extremely young squad. "With our edge in experience we should be able to cause some match-up problems for Hobart, but as to how we are going to exploit that inexperience, we're not quite sure," said Corrigan. In order to combat the disadvantages Hobart faces, O'Hara turns to his returning defensive line to keep control of the game. He returns defensemen Mike O'Connor, a second team All-American, and Mike Higgins, an honorable mention choice. The real defensive challenge for Hobart will be stopping junior attacker Randy Colley who has gotten off to a quick start this season. Assisting Colley will be freshman Kevin Ma-
The Observer 1Jake Peters honey who, for the time being, has stepped into the starting lineup due to junior Steve Ed Lamb and the Irish lacrosse team put their 5-0 record on the line at Manl~y's injury (stress fracture) and junior home Saturday against a HobarHeam that has yet to play. Robbie Snyder. see LACROSSE! page 13 

Men's tennis puts streak on line against ranked LSU 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 

Though the Notre Dame men's tennis team has won six out of their last seven matches, including five wins over top-25 opponentr, the Irish are cautious heading into Sunday's matchup in Baton Rouge against the LSU Tigers. 
First of all, since an NCAA berth is pending for the 16th­ranked Irish, they cannot afford to underestimate any op­ponent. The Irish and coach Bob Bayliss found that out Wednesday night, as they were pushed to the brink by an unranked Michigan State squad. 
Secondly, the Tigers are no less than the nation's sixth­ranked team, and they boast three ranked and extremely talented singles players and three outstanding doubles teams. 
"We just take every match as a tennis match," said Bayliss, "I think it's actually easier to play against the good teams-that way you're not defending anything." 
Only a coach whose team has already played seven teams that are or have been ranked among the top ten could make such a statement, and Bayliss fits that description . 
"It will be a tough match, but I think we're ready for the challenge and are looking forward to it. I don't think we're afraid of anybody right now," added Bayliss. 
However, if there was one team to be afraid of, it would be LSU. The Tigers, like many top-25 programs, have wealth of foreigners who make up most of the top players on the squad. Their top singles player. Tamer El Sawy, plays on Egypt's Davis Cup team and is 26-3 on the year and ranked fourth in the nation. All three of his losses have come against players ranked in the top five. 
"He is an awfully good player, he has a powerful serve and is very aggressive. He has no apparent weaknesses," noted Bayliss. 
Sawy will be a challenge for Notre Dame's Will Forsyth. but nothing he has not faced before. Forsyth upset the No. 1 ranked player in the nation during the Irish's win at the . Blue-Gray Classic. 
"The schedule has really been good in that it lets me play the top guys," said Forsyth, "I haven't beaten everybody but I've had a couple of TENN S/see I page 17· 


Different type of madness awaits Irish fencers at NCAA tourney 
Piper leads team with eye on individual title 
By KEVIN JANICKI Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame foilist Jeff Piper, this weekend's NCAA Championships are a final opportunity to showcase his leadership and come away as one of the nation's top fencers. 
After leading this year's foil squad to the number onr, seed out of the Midwest Conference and compiling a 45-6 regular season record. the senior from Queensland, Australia is hoping to finalize his successful career with a top finish in Saturday's individual competition. 
Piper began his senior campaign having compiled a 72-12 record on the fencing strip in his first three years with the Irish. Even before the season began, head men's 

.. ­
coach Mike DeCicco was looking for Piper to make a major contribution. 
"We are expecting Jeff to serve as a team leader for what may become a strong weapon for us this year," he said before the sea•;on. 
Those words now seem an understatement as Piper's 45-6 regular season record and undefeated post-season play propelled the Irish foilists to the ex­traordinary position as the class of the Midwest Conference. 
DeCicco consistently praised Piper throughout this sea-;on for leading not only the foilists, but the 
see PIPER! page 17 

The Observer I Jake Peters 
Fancing's version of March Madness begins this weekend in Detroit. The NCAA championships were held at Notre Dame last year. 

O~@Dwrn SPORTS-----------­
TRACK TEAMS SPLIT 
SMC TRACK STANDOUT Todd Herman leads part of Joann Weed has already the track team to Raleigh broken one record and goes while others travel to for another this weekend at Eastern Kentucky, Purdue. Wheaton College. 
see page 16 see page 15 

By KEVIN JANICKI Sports Writer 

March Madness begins this weekend for the nation's top collegiate fencers as the NCAA individual and team ehampionships will be held in Detroit from today until Wednesday. 
After faring well in the Midwest Hegionals last weekend, the Notre Dame fencing squad hopes to capitalize on the season's success by taking a top spot at the championships. A strong men's and women's foil team will help the Irish achieve a strong finish although teams such as Columbia, Yale and Penn State, who qualified all four teams, will be favorites. 
The focus for the Irish men will be senior foilist Jeff Piper, who compiled a 45-6 regular season record and was undefeated in the Conference and Regional post-sea<;on tournaments. Piper, the top seed out of the Midwest Conference, looks to build on his post-season success. The team leader throughout the year, Piper hopes to simply finish strong in the individual championships on Saturday as well as to help his third-seeded foil squad surprise some people. 
''I'd like to do better than our seeding," he said. 
Sophomore Stan Brunner and junior Hian Girard will not only join Piper in the efforts of the foil team, but will also compete in the individual championships. 
The woman's foil squad, which earned a 17-3 regular season mark, will be led by senior Kathleen Vogt. Vogt, who was 45-15 
during the regular see NCAA's! page 17 
BASEBALL AT XAVIER Coach Pat Murphy and his pitching staff look to start winning again as they begin conference play. 
see page 18 








