The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 95 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton calls for $499 billion in taxes, spending cuts 
WASIIINGTON (APJ -Presi­dent Clinton asked Americans Wednesday night to accept one of the biggest tax increases in history. part of a tough $499 billion plan to curb massive budget deficits and stimulate the economy. "We must do this together," he said in a pointed overture to Congress. 
"This economic plan can't plP-ase everybody," Clinton said in a 60-minute address to a joint session of Congress. "If the package is picked apart, there will be something that will anger each of us. It won't please anybody. But if it is taken as whole, it will help all of us." 
The plan is a mixture of $246 billion in tax increases and $253 billion in spending cuts 
• 
Reaction I page 7 

• 
Middle class/ page 7 


over four years. He said his plan would cut $140 billion from the deficit by 1997 -"a real deficit reduction." 
"If we don't act now, you and i might not even recognize this government 10 years from now," Clinton said. He said the deficit would have grown to $635 billion a year and the na­tional debt would consume al­most 80 percent of the gross domestic product. 

BP to face Sarin in the final round of Iceberg Debates 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
News Writer 
The semi-finals of the Iceberg Debates were concluded last night and Breen-Phillips will face Sorin in the final round to be held next Tuesday in the LaFortune Student Center Ball­room. 

The topic of debate last night was whether Notre Dame is los­ing its Catholic character. 
BP defeated Stanford in an unanimous decision. Arguing for the resolution, BP represen­tatives, freshman Sheila Moloney and sophomore Karen Dubay, maintained that ND was abandoning its Catholic her­itage by funding research con­trary to its Catholic mission. 
Moloney cited research funded by the University that involved human fetal tissue as evidenc·e of ND's having lost touch with its Catholic roots. In addition. the University spon­sors genetic manipulation re­search, also at odds with official Catholic doctrine. said Dubay. 
Stanford waged a complex battle against BP by bringing up several issues. but was un­able to overcome its opponent's persistent hammering at the issue of academics. Moloney and Dubay convincingly argued that when ND attempts to emu­late the excellence of secular institutions, the University de­nies our Catholic heritage. 
"We thought that if we were able to build a seven point house on a variety of subjects, from academic, residential, to social life, we would be able to diffuse BP's attack," said Ge­orge Rau, a Stanford sopho­more. "Unfortunately, the judges didn't quite see things our way." 
Sorin narrowly defeated Zahm by the score of 2-1 to ad­vance to the final round. Ju­nior Jerry Moore and freshman Charles Kranz of Zahm cited President Edward Malloy's and Provost Timothy O'Meara's concerns about the future of Notre Dame in their defense of the resolution. 
"Timothy O'Meara feels that if Notre Dame is not more suc­cessful in attracting Catholics, Notre Dame will cease to be a Catholic university," said Kranz. "These concerns are genuine and are evidence that Notre Dame is losing its Catholic character." 
Zahm made extensive use of demographics in their argu­ments, relying on statistics to give weight to their defense. "There has been a consistent drop in Catholic student, fac­ulty, and administration repre­sentation," said Moore. 
Jonathan Lienhard and Bill Northrip dismissed the statisti­
see DEBATE I page 4 

LONDON (AP) -Videotaped images of a toddler being ab­ducted by two boys has fright­ened parents across the country and provoked angry outbursts outside a police station where suspects in the kidnapping­murder were being questioned. 
Police were pursuing a new report that two boys were try­ing to lure children from their parents in the Liverpool shop­ping mall where 2-year-old James Bulger was led away last week. 
The report -and security camera pictures showing Jamie being led away then later ­shocked Britons with the alarming possibility the mur­derers may be little more than children themselves. 
Jamie's battered body was found Sunday on a rail line in Liverpool, two days after he wandered away from his mother in a mall butcher shop. Police said the boy was dead before he was hit by a train and there was no evidence of sexual abuse. 
A coroner's inquest opened Tuesday, and the cause of death was not known on Wednesday. 
The abduction and murder of children as young as two is rare in Britain, where overall crime rates, though rapidly increasing in recent years, remain far lower than in the United States. 
An average of 57 children under 5 have been murdered every year in Britain in the past decade, but only 10 in that pe­riod were killed by strangers, government statistics show. 
"We were absolutely sick when we heard about that little boy," said Mandy Smith, mother of 2-year-old Jessica in Bishops Stortford, about 25 miles northeast of London. "I have 

"Americans have called for change," the president said, "and now it is up to those of us in this room to deliver for them." He warned that lobby­ists would try to block the pro­gram. 
Clinton's prime-time speech was delivered in the House chamber, where majority Democrats gave a thunderous welcome to the first Democrat to hold the White House in 12 years. 
Republicans denounced Clin­ton's plan as a massive round of tax hikes. GOP lawmakers wore buttons that said "Tax and Spend. Again" and "It's 

Catholicism and communism 
George Weigel, the author of the book "The Final Revolution: The Catholic Church and the Collapse of European Communism," lectures yesterday in DeBartolo Hall on the role of the catholic church and the decline of communism. 
spending, stupid." 
House GOP Leader Bob Michel said, "The American people 
would do well to remember: When you hear a Democrat call for taxes, do not ask for whom 
the tax rises-it will rise for you." · "Tonight the president men­tioned a number of new pro­grams that inevitably will cost considerable sums of money," Michel said. "Laudable as they may be, how do we pay for them? The president's answer is: more taxes on everyone." Clinton's Cabinet looked on as he spoke, as well as his wife, 
see TAXES I page 4 
The Observer/ Michelle DiRe 


Britons alarmed by murder of abducted toddler 
not been able to stop cuddling 20 youths, age 10 to 16, were Jess -it makes you realize questioned. how precious they are. Five people were arrested in 
"All this has made me more the two incidents on public determined to buy a set of order offenses. Detective Su­reins," she said. perintendent Albert Kirby told For Vanessa Bruce of west reporters police were pursuing London. the case she described "a very serious line of inquiry" as "devastating" hit uncom­after talking to a woman who fortably close to home. Last said two boys tried to lure her weekend, she said she repri­children from a department manded her 7-year-old sor•. store about an hour before 
Carl, for wandering away from her. 
"You just have to keep a hold on them and nag them stupid," Bruce said. 
About 80 people jeered and shouted "murderer" as police led a 12-year-old out of a house Tuesday night with a blanket over his head. The boy was re­leased Wednesday, as were two adults detained Tuesday night. 
A crowd later demonstrated outside the police station where James disappeared in the same mall. 
Security camera pictures showed James wandering away from his mother, Denise. She told police he was out of her sight for less than a minute. 
Pictures· taken just four minutes later showed Jamie walking away, holding the left hand of an older boy. Police said other pictures indicate James left with two boys aged 10 to 14. 
Analysi·S.•. 

If ·t1 passes 
wi II it work? ' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton's plan to tax Americans into prosperity ad­vances the largest-ever assault on the mushrooming budget deficit. Can such austerity re­ally go hand-in-hand with eco­nomic revival and the creation of millions of new jobs? 
The answer is a resounding ­maybe. 
Many economists give Clinton high grades for a bold $500 billion deficit-cutting plan, but are skeptical he can produce the desired results even if he gets exactly what he wants from Congress -and that's a big if. 
The frightened response of the stock and currency mar­kets, beginning Tuesday and continuing Wednesday, was not a good omen, economists sug­gest. That's because the suc­cess of Clinton's plan depends so much on market and con­sumer confidence. 
Give Clinton credit for at least grappling squarely with the deficit problem. The political risks for him are high. Even so, under the administration's own projections, the deficit will remain at over $200 billion in 1997. 
"I do think the economy is not as healthy as it could be and some short-term stimulus is warranted," said economist Lawrence Chimerine. "And clearly we need some deficit reduction. And you can't do all of that unless there are some tax increases." 
But, he added, "there is something in this program for everybody to hate." 
Chimerine is a supporter of Clinton and what he is trying to do. But he would have liked more spending cuts -particu­larly in pension and other "entitlement" programs -and fewer new taxes. 
Higher taxes are never easy to sell, either to Congress or to taxpayers. And tax increases don't usually go along with economic stimulus and job­creation. 
The administration claims its $500 billion package breaks down roughly 50-50 in terms of spending cuts and tax increases -off the original proposal by Budget Director Leon Panetta for $2 in cuts for every $1 in taxes. 

Sign up today 
Registration for Christmas 

In April will be today from 11 a.~. to 2 p.m.. and 4 to 8 p.m;. in the Hesburgh Library Con­course, This is a v()lunteer program in \VhicbNotre Dame and·Sarnt ~ary's students; faculty and staff will help needy rnem.bers of. the South Be.nd community t() repair ·· their homes on Aptil17. ··· 
···. 



rr----------------~--~------~-----~-------------~~~--~-.-...~.~.-.~.-.-.------~-----------­
Thursday, February 18, 1993
page 2 The Observer 
FORECAST 
Partly sunny and 
cold today with highs 
in the upper teens. 
Sunny and warmer 
Friday with highs in 


:!' J ;;~::::;~~ES 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Grapple for a snapple 
Snapple. Snapple? 
Snapple.! 
Instinct says: Hey! Just 
end the column right 
there. No need to go on. 
Snapple-the name 
obviously speaks for 
itself. And yet, I Meredith McCullough 
understand that there are Associate News 
few Snapple-illiterate out Editor 
there (not that there is _______________ 
anything wrong with that). So I'll continue ... 
Snapple. Just saying it makes you happy. But 
drinking it? Ahhh. It's hip. It's now. It's the 
Gatorade of the 90s. Snapple. It rolls off the 
tongue and slides down the throat like the fluid 
notes of Bill's saxophone. 
From the outside in, it's the perfect beverage. 
Go ahead. I dare you. Grab one. How does it 
feel? Good, huh? Solid. Dependable. Engraved. 
This bottle doesn't just hold a drink, it holds 
your hand. 
But it doesn't just hold your hand, it pulls 
your hand. It beckons. It croons, "Be like Alice, 
drink me." 
So you do it. You twist the top. And ... 
WAIT! You can't do that! You don't even know 
what's in it. You didn't even read the label. 
Remember, your body (and mine) is a temple. 
You've got to scrutinize what you put into it. 
And you know what? I think you'll be pleasantly 
surprized. 
You could be drinking Grapeade or Lemon 
Iced Tea or Pink Lemonade (your mouth is 
watering, isn't it) or even Kiwi Strawberry 
Cocktail. 
But whichever Snapple you've chosen, I assure you, it's 10 percent fruit juice, and hon, 100 percent natural. 
The lid is ofT, so tease your senses. I suggest a sniiT-no, not just any old wimpy sniiT. Waft. A drink of this magnitude deserves it. The fresh aroma. The fruity, scent. Your nose is having so much fun. 
Okay, Alice, now you can drink. 
Slowly. Slowly. Don't chug. This is not a party beverage. The flavor is tickling your tastebuds, it's dancing on your palate. You feel good. You feel like you have just been confirmed Attorney General. 
There you are. Drinking, enjoying, forgetting to breathe (not that there's anything wrong with that). And before you know it, you're down to your last Snapple sip. 
Are you satisfied? Your senses say yes, but your mind says no. No? No! 
A thousand questions are racing through your head. Is it worth your 90 cents? What is vegetable gum and what is it doing in your Snapple? Is the bottle recyclable? Is drinking Snapple politically correct? 
Why is it called "Snapple?" Why are you drinking something that contains no "apple" and definitely no "sn?" 
Put the bottle down. Take a deep breath, and tell me all about it. You feel used don't you. Cheated ... just a little? Everybody feels this way a least once in their life. You've got to bounce back. Remember the good times. The sound o the safety seal popping open. The wafting. The first sip. 
Admit it. Snapple made you feel like you were on top of the world-even if just for two minutes. And is that a crime? Is tha-hey? Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Wait a second! Come back here. 
Hey! Is that a Snapple in your hand, or or you ·ust glad to see me? 
Rose Dilenschneider. ad design, collaborated on this important consumer report. 
Today's Staff: 
News Sports 
Alicia Reale Jason Kelly Bevin Kovalik Mike Scrudato 
Production Viewpoint 
Susan Marx Amara Graf Jeanne Blasi & Jen 
Accent Graphics 
Lynn Bauwens 
Systems
Ann-Marie Conrado Matt Carbone 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Taylor donates money to fight AIDS 
•LOS ANGELES -One of Elizabeth Taylor's charities is donating $150,000 to fund a program that allows intravenous drug users to exchange used needles for clean ones. "We have to fight AIDS on every front. This means confronting the virus not only in the laboratory, the clinic and the classroom, but also on the streets and in the shooting galleries of our cities and towns," Taylor said Tuesday at a meeting of the American Foundation for AIDS Research. The money was being transferred to the research foundation from The Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation. Intravenous drug users account for about one-quarter of AIDS cases in the United States. The virus is transmitted through shared needles. 
Professor fakes research for drug
•MINNEAPOLIS -A psychiatry professor is charged with faking research on a drug used to treat obsessive­compulsive people. Dr. Barry Garfinkel of the University of Minnesota was indicted Tuesday on fraud and other charges in connection with studies done for Ciba-Geigy Pharmaceuticals of Summit, N.J. The indictment accuses him of having a research assistant with no medical 
OF INTEREST 
•The Knights of Columbus will meet Saturday at 7 
a.m. to paint the male dormitory at the South Bend Cen­ter for the Homeless. Transportation and lunch will be provided. Members are encouraged to participate. For more information, call Nick at 289-0525. 
•sADD's Psycho Soiree is tonight in The Ballroom at LaFortune Student Center from 8-10 p.m., not from 7-9 
p.m. as the flyers indicate. Stop by for free food, drinks, music, and fun. 
•Volunteer Opportunities with troubled children. The first of three training sessions for the Children's Campus will be tonight from 7:30-9:30 p.m. at the Center for 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 17 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 287,220,772 -0.75 to 238.74 S&P COMPOSITE -0.61 to 433.30 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +2.70 to 3,312.19

UNCHANGED 
525 

GOLD -$2.00 to $331.00 /oz 
SILVER • $0.059 to $3.653 /oz 

training examine study participants and concealing his actions from Ciba-Geigy and the university. The government approved the drug, Anafranil, based on other research. It is given to people who perform repetitive tasks such as constant hand-washing. Garfinkel's attorney, Doug Kelley, said Garfinkel was being victimized by a former associate trying to cover up her own misconduct. Garfinkel, 45, could get up to six years in prison and $350,000 in fines. 
INDIANA Man iets 100 years for killing boss 
•INDI NAPOLIS -An Indianapolis man convicted of killing his former boss during a gas station robbery has been sentenced to 100 years in prison with no probation. Special Judge Ora Kincaid on Tuesday ordered Nelson Harris to serve the maximum sentence for murder, robbery and confinement. Harris, who used to work at the station on the city's northside, was one of three people charged in the Nov. 23, 1991, killing of station owner Kurt Kahlo. Harris' cousin, James "Chuckie" Harris, was sentenced to 60 years in prison after his December conviction. A third defendant, Terry Buggs, is scheduled for trial next week. Witnesses said Harris held up Kahlo for $150 and reportedly shot the gas station owner after Kahlo refused to hand over two rings. Kahlo has said Buggs was the man who pulled the trigger. 
Social Concerns. If you are interested in working with children from troubled homes, come to this training ses­sion. 
•college Year in Athens, a study abroad program in Greece, will have an information meeting today at 4:30 
p.m. in 205 DeBartolo. 
•Three Holy Cross Associates who recently returned from two and half years in Chile will give a presentation tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. They will show slides and discuss their experiences living and working with the poor. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1861: Jefferson Davis was sworn in as president of the 

Confederate States of America in Montgomery, Ala. 

• 
In 1970: The Chicago Seven defendants were found innocent of conspiring to incite riots at the 1968 Democratic national convention. 

• 
In 1972: The California Supreme Court struck down the state's death penalty. 

• 
In 1977: The space shuttle Enterprise, sitting atop a Boeing 747, went on its maiden "flight," reaching altitudes of up to 16,000 feet above the Mojave Desert. 

• 
In 1984: Italy and the Vatican signed an contract stating that Catholicism is no longer Italy's state religion. 

• 
In 1988: Soviet Communist Party leaders dropped former Moscow party chief Boris Yeltsin from thePolitburo. 


;: .:· ..:: 
City
:~: 
Anchorage
:: 
Atlanta
.:: 
Bogota Cairo Chicago Cleveland Dallas Detroit Indianapolis Jerusalem London Los Angeles Madrid Minneapolis Moscow Nashville New York Paris Philadelphia Rome Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C. 
H 42 63 41 70 43 64 41 30 09 32 23 42 28 32 16 32 16 57 36 54 48 59 51 59 39 16 08 25 t4 50 29 50 36 
48 41 51 37 50 37 39 27 30 19 55 45 49 35 


-~------·----~-------------------------------------~---------, 
Thursday, February 18, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Panel: Optimism, concern
Wing ice cited in fatal USAir crash 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ice on the wings caused a USAir jet­liner to go out of control and plunge into frigid water during a failed takeoff from New York's LaGuardia Airport last year, federal investigators concluded Wednesday. 
Twenty-seven of the 51 people aboard Flight 405 to Cleveland died in the cr-ash. 
Investigators with the National Transportation Safety Board also said the pilot's attempt to get his plane into the air at too low a speed may have also contributed to the March 22 accident. 
"I don't believe that the crew of the aircraft realized that a relatively tiny bit of (ice) con­tamination could get them into a whole lot of trouble," said Robert Benzon, the NTSB's chief investigator of the crash. 
The NTSB's final report is due out in about five weeks. 
According to the NTSB's conclusions,· the "probable cause of this accident was the failure of the airline industry and the Federp.l Aviation Ad­ministration" to give flight crews proper guidelines and procedures to deal with wing ic­ing. 

Investigators said it was diffi­cult, if not impossible, for those in the Fokker 28-4000's cockpit to detect small accumulations of clear ice, especially after sunset on a dark runway. 
The plane was de-iced at the gate at 8:26 p.m., and after takeoff was delayed, the pilot had the plane chemically de­iced again about a half-hour later. 
However, after the second de­icing, as a light snow and sleet fell, Flight 405 stood on the runway waiting clearance for takeoff for about 35 minutes more. 
NTSB Chairman Carl Vogt said he believed the flight crew may have known some ice and snow was on the wings, but thought they still could take off safely. 
"They may have assumed there was some contamination, but believed they could fly through it," he said. 
Vogt also said he believed the jet's captain, who died in the crash, tried to get the plane off the ground at too low a speed and at the wrong angle for takeoff. 
By MICHELLE STOLPMAN News Writer 
There is much optimism and concern regarding the transi­tional South African govern­ment, according to four pan­elists at a symposium titled "South Mrica in Transition." 
Peter Walshe, Mark Behr, Conway Molusi, and Garth Meintjes, the panelists, dis­cussed the source of the transi­tion, the current state of apartheid, the movements of liberation and the changes of human rights in South Mrica 
Walshe described the back­ground behind the need for modification and transition in the African nation. With the 1990 revolutionary statement by President DeKlerk, the South African government is now witnessing the need for a new and revised form of gov­ernment involving blacks and white together, according to Walshe. 
He said there is a need for a transitional executive council and a Bill of Rights however, the specifics of the govern-
about S. African government 
mental structure are still uncertain. 
Behr addressed the doubts of radical change saying, "the regime, guilty party is still on the scene of the crime." The new government will be a tran­sition within the current gov­ernment presently in control rather than by abrupt change or takeover. 
According to Behr, the cur­rent regime will not willingly surrender control, therefore "limiting the potential of the new government." Behr summarized the transition by quoting former President, P.W. Botha's 1979 statement: "Adapt or Die." 
Molusi strengthened the need for dramatic change saying, "the struggle for democracy must go beyond" just a fair constitution or new laws. Mo­lusi said that the current gov­ernment has established a "sophisticated survival strat­egy," to maintain its current policies and ideas. 
He said he believes that " 'sharing' the power is simply a euphemism to keep apartheid." 
Meintjes said he supported the need for action and truth to bring about a permanent change. He said there is a need for a universal declaration of human rights to be not only supported but endorsed. 
In order for this change to occur, Meintjes said he de­mands the need for extensive human rights education for all citizens. This will be demon­strated by the history of apartheid, which will "build upon a foundation of truth." 
PLEASE OBSERVE ALL SMOKING RULES 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following Saint Mary's positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jennifer Habrych by 5 p.m., Thursday, February 25, 1993. Applications can be dropped off at either 
the Notre Dame Observer office or the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more information about any of the positions, call Jennifer at 631-5303 or 284-4312. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Celebrante Padre Ernie Bartell, c.s.c. 
~n:~srw:l~stry
Coro Prlm~r. i:le Nuestn~ S."ora 


--------~-~--~-~-~---~-------------------­
-----------. 
page 4 
The Observer 

Thursday, February 18, 1993 
Mrs. Quayle joins Indianapolis firm 
INDIANAPOLIS lAP) -Mari­
lyn Quayle, wife of former Vice 
President Dan Quayle, an­
nounced Wednesday that she 
has joined an Indianapolis law 
firm. 
Mrs. Quayle will be a partner in the firm of Krieg DeVault Alexander & Capehart and will begin work immediately. She will commute between Indi­anapolis and her family's sub­urban Virginia home until the Quayles move to Indiana in June. 
The 45-member law firm, lo­cated in the INB Tower in downtown Indianapolis, han­dles dvil corporate cases. 
Quayle. a 197 4 graduate of the Indiana University School of Law at Indianapolis, will 
Taxes 
continued from page 1 
llillary Hodham Clinton, and his 
mother, Virginia Kelley. 
Clinton's plan would spread 
pain almost universally, 
although well-to-do people 
would be hit hardest. 
The program would impose higher energy taxes on every household with income of more than $30,000. The administra­tion calculated that would raise $71.4 billion by 1998. 
The tax would start next July at 2.5 cents a gallon for gaso­line, 2. 7 5 cents per gallon of heating oil and 8.75 cents per thousand eubic feet of natural gas. It would increase over three years to triple those original ligures. 
lncomH tax rates would jump significantly -from 31 percent now to 36 percent next year ­for families with taxable income over $140,000 and for individ­uals over $115,000. Clinton said 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
cal argument, by drawing on the words of Pope John Paul II. 
"The Pope has drawn a line at fifty percent, and once the Catholic population drops 
-below that level, then and only then can one consider Notre Dame to be losing its Catholic charactnr," said Northrip. Lienhard added "basically a Catholk university is based on community, reflection, service, and research, not demograph­ics." BP and Sorin will debate "resolved, that the United States Congress should ratify the North American Freed Trade Agreement." 
Corrections 
In a caption to a photograph· in Monday's edition, The Observer incorrectly reported Notre Dame's ranking in U.S. News and World Report's annual list of the nation's best colleges. Notre Dame was ranked 26th among the na­tion's universities, according to Dennis Brown, assistant di­rector of public relations. Due to incorrect information, the sponsor of rock opera "Frogboy" was incorrectly listed in an Of Interest in the Feb. 10 issue of The Observer. The production is independently run by stu­dents. The Observer regrets the 
errors. 


focus her practice on corporate, international business and health care law. 
Quayle said she was pleased about joining the law firm be­cause it "deals with the kind of law and issues that interest 
me." 

"Our clients will benefit from the expertise and knowledge Marilyn has developed over the past 16 years in Washington," 
that would affect only 1.2 of taxpayers. A 10 percent surtax which Clinton had promised to impose on millionaires would be applied to taxable income over $250,000. 
A pay freeze would be put on the 3 million federal workers for a year; after that they would be allowed increases less than 
said William Neale, a partner 
of the firm and long-time friend 
of the Quayles. 

Quayle and her husband had 
a private law practice in Hunt­
ington until 1977. Since then, 
she has reared the couple's 
three teen-age children, and 
focused her energies on public 
service endeavors. 

As wife of the vice president, Quayle visited sites of natural disasters throughout the world. She also has worked to pro­mote the fight against breast cancer, which claimed her mother's life. 
The Quayles announced last month they intended to move back to Indiana after their chil­dren get out of school this spring. 
the rate of inflation. Clinton said congressional staffs should follow suit. 
Taxes would be raised on So­cial Security benefits for retired couples earning more than $32,000 and individuals earn­ing $25,000. Medicare payroll taxes would be required on all earnings, rather than the pre­sent $135,000 limit. 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES Dave Carey (ND'90), Liesl Haas (ND'90) and Dave Morales (ASU'88) will share their experience of life and work among the poor of Chile tonight, 7:30 p.m., at the Center for Social 
Concerns. All are welcome. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 
WELCOME 
Calcium benefits aging bones 
BOSTON (AP) -A new study provides some of the strongest evidence yet that extra calcium keeps women's bones strong after menopause. The study should erase doubts about the benefits of calcium supple­ments, experts say. 
The study, conducted in New Zealand, found that older women who took 1,000 mil­ligrams of calcium a day in ad­dition to what they were getting in their food reduced their bone loss by one-third to one-half. 
Women typically lose bone 
density after menopause, in­
creasing their risk of fractures. 
There has been a growing belief for several years that tak­ing extra caleium slows this bone loss. But skeptics remain, in part because some studies failed to show a benefit. 
However, an editorial pub­lished with the latest study in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine said the time has come to recommend cakium for ail older women. 
T 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Graphics Manager Illustrations Manager 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kevin Hardman by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kevin at 631-7471 for more information about either osition. 
Lecture: Constructing Freedom: Race, Gender & Power 
Reconstruction Dr. Laura Edwards University of Chicago 
Thursday. Feb. 18 
Stapleton Lounge 
4:00pm 
*~ ++*++*X:X*++**X:X+*O*~+O+++ 
SPONSORED BY: MINf Office.S~~ of Nefertiti, SAB Office of the Associate Dean 
PARENTS!! 

Remember to visit 
The Varsity Shop 
"on the concourse of the JACC" 
We have IYD MOM and DAD sweatshirts! 
JPW Weekend Hours: Friday: 11 :30-5:30 Saturday: 11:30-5:30 Sunday: immediately following Brunch-5:30 
ENJOY YOUR WEEKEND!! 

Thursday, February 18, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Children left home alone die in fire 
DETROIT (AP) -A fire killed seven children ages 9 and un­der who were left home alone and were trapped by bars on the windows of their two-story wooden house Wednesday, of­ficials said. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent and a resume to Meredith McCollough by 5 p.m., Monday, February 22, 1993. For questions about any of the positions, call Meredith at 631-5323. 
The victims, all apparently related, were found in one room and apparently had pushed a dresser up to a win­dow in an attempt to escape, Battalion Chief Harold Watkins said. He said the windows had 

padlocked burglar bars on them. 
The children were asphyxi­ated by smoke, Fire Marshal Richard Milliner said. The fire started in the kitchen, said city arson investigator Capt. William Peck. The cause wasn't immediately known. 
The house was on the city's near east side, in a neighbor­hood of rundown one-family homes. Homicide investigators were called to the scene because the children's parents had left them alone, Fire Department spokesman Rodney Parnell said. 
The parents arrived about 20 minutes after the fire was re­ported, asking about the chil­dren, according to a broadcast report. After going to the hospi­tal, the mother was taken to po­lice headquarters for question­ing, WDIV-TV reported. It wasn't immediately clear where the father was. 
"We smelled smoke and I had my kids running up and down our house. We thought" our house was on fire," said Cynthia Taylor, a next-door neighbor. 




CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
"You're Good Enough, You're Smart Enough.••" We need to believe as well that we are not alone. As a community, we can't really be defined by a number or a rating, whether it seems like a compliment or critique. Rather, if those of us who make up the place are committed to live and 
There's a kind of conversation going on that will occur with more and more teach with integrity, to treat all our brothers and sisters with respect that Jesus
regularity between now and the end of the school year, a conversation marked by did, the Spirit of God will truly be able to flourish here. 
jokes, "horror stories," uncertainty, disappointment, hope, and especially by 
waiting. You can usually recognize this conversation by the question that Of course, all this will not ease the inevitable pain when the rejection letters
prompts it: "So, do you know what you're going to do next year?" come. But while we wait we can reflect upon all the goodness that is in us 
simply because we are God's creation. While we wait we can talk with wise
Our soon-to-be-alumni Class of 1993 may feel the wait weighs heaviest, but people whom we trust; we can take our self-doubt and feelings of inadequacy to
many others among us are waiting, too. Juniors wait for their RA interviews and God in prayer. 
for new hall staffs to be picked, graduate students fill our assistant rector 
applications and wait for head staff interviews. Others wait for acceptance from We are called by this Sunday's Gospel to love as perfectly as God loves, to love
foreign study programs, summer internships and Summer Service projects. even our enemies and those who persecute us (even those who have the 
agonizing responsibility of selection and don't pick us) because we are "sons and 
In this community, a tremendous number of talented and gifted students look for daughters of God, whose sun rises on the bad and the good, who rains on the just 
education, life and growth together. They are generally each one of many with and the unjust." This kind of love is a challenge and a comfort as well, especially 
skills, experience, and intelligence who try to shake off the pressure of knowing while we wait for other people to make decisions about a part of our future.
that when the music stops, there are more people than there are chairs in the God's love ·for all creation asks us to reject the notion that some of us deserve
circle. Perhaps you'll see a rejection letter tacked up on the bulletin board more or are worth more than others.
outside a neighbor's room like a bittersweet trophy, often with the offending 
sentence highlighted in yellow. For some among us, that bravely displayed The conversation becomes an opportunity, a chance to ask new and different
rejection letter signifies the first time they've been Turned Down, Not Chosen, questions of ourselves and each other. 
left unpicked for a really important kickball game. The Observer even told us that U.S. News and World Report recently thumbed its nose at our whole Judy Hutchinson 
school, telling all who cared to read it that we are only 36th best among national Kate S. Barrett 
colleges and universities. 

All the doubt that comes along with ra"tings and rankings and waiting can do much to wound our self-confidence, to lead us to a nagging belief that maybe 




WEEKEND PRESIDERS
we're really not, somehow, "good enough." We live in a world where, to be AT SACRED HEART BASILICA
successful, we must "be the best" or the "cream of the crop." This is the judgment of our culture. As Christians, though, we must live by God's 
Sat. February 20 5:00p.m. Rev. Regis Duffy, O.F.M. 
expectations, and not by those of society. If there is one thing that we each need 
Sun. February 21 10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
to learn and believe deeply before we leave such a place as Notre Dame, it is that 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
our goodness, our abilities and talents should never be judged by whether or not we are hired for a job. "Are you not aware," St. Paul will ask us this Sunday, "that you are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?" This truth is as important now as it was when he first asked the question of the Corinthian community. It asks us to live with integrity and faith, not burdened with doubts about our self-worth. 

SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 

Will we land the perfect position after graduation? Will we be chosen as an RA or instead devote that time to service work or lend our talents to other hall 
1ST READING Leviticus 19: 1,2, 17,18 
activities? However these questions are answered, we can be secure in the 
2ND READING 1 Corinthians 3: 16,23
knowledge that God can create only that which is holy and good, and that our real value is not measurable by professional gain or public accolades, but simply 
GosPEL Matthew 5: 38,48 
by being generously loving creatures of God. Hopefully, in so doing, we will be an example for others, so that they may see and believe in their own goodness. 


----~-­
-----~----------~ --~-~----------­
page 6 
Blacks at Army post complain of treatment 
ANCIIOHAGE. Alaska (AP) ­
Troy Scott says he gave up liv­
ing out of an Iowa bus locker 
to join the U.S. Army. It was 
love at first salute. 
That was six years ago. Be­fore he received the Good Con­duet Medal and numerous other awards and citations. And before his arm was shat­tered by a smoke grenade fired by a fellow sergeant at point-blank range. 
Now the 2X-year-old sergeant wants out. He and a number of other blacks charge racism is rampant at Fort Hichardson, located outside Anchorage. 
''I've lost total respect for the Army," Scott said. 
Staff Sgt. Hufus Deon Bell isn't sure he wants to give up his nine-year career. But after a court-martial acquittal on what he deems a trumped-up bribery charge, he knows he wants out of Alaska. 
The leadership of the 6th Infantry Division (Light), based at Fort Wainwright near Fair­banks, denies allegations of in­stitutional racism within their command. 
"The United States Army Alaska does not condone racism." it said in written re­sponsn to questions from The Associated Press. 
The Army also said it would continue to "work to provide ndueation. remediation and diseipline to those few who 
Ex-Watergate 'hatchet man' 
. .
w1ns pnze 
NEW YOHK (AI') -Charles "Chuck" Colson. who was im­prisoned as the Watergate scandal's "hatchet man" and later built a worldwide ministry for prisoners, won a $1 million religion prize Wednesday. 
"It's amazing graee that I could bn redeemed from the degradation of prison by the power of Jesus Christ to serve his gospel," Colson said. 
The 1993 Templeton Prize for Progress in Heligion is the largest prize for achievement in any finld. The prize is kept higher than the Nobel prizes in such fields as science and liter­ature in the belief that religion is more important. 
Colson. 61. served seven months in prison for obstruct­ing justice in the Watnrgate eovnr-up as the tough speeial eounsel of former President Nixon. lie later founded Prison Fellowship of Heston, Va., in 1976. 
Colson said at a news confer­ence at the Church Center for the United Nations that his own downfall had bnPn his rnstora­tion. 
"Out of tragedy and adversity come great blessings," he said. "I shudder to think of what I'd been if I had not gone to prison. Lying on the rotten 11oor of a cell, you know it's not prosperity or pleasure that's important, but the maturing of the soul." 
The prize, established by in­vestmnnt manager John Tem­pleton, has been awarded an­nually since 1972. Previous winners indude Mother Teresa. Billy Graham and Alexander Solzhenitsyn. 

may manifest inappropriate 
attitudes and behavior." 

But the allegations have caught the interest of the Na­tional Association for the Ad­vancement of Colored People, the Alaska Civil Liberties Union and Alaska Sen. Frank Murkowski, who asked for an investigation of Bell's case. 
Caran MeKee, a spokeswoman for Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, says her boss spoke to the Pentagon on Seott 's behalf. concerned that the accused shooter wasn't court-martialed immediately. 
Scott, an explosives techni­cian, says the word "nigger" was freely used by one of his unit leaders and that a eolonel who used to head his battalion once said Scott and his wife "are smarter than the average eolored people." 
Bell, a driver, says a former company commander falsely charged him with offering a $300 bribe in April to a fellow non-eommissioned officer over a failed physical fitness test. Bell was acquitted in a July court-martial where the only testimony against him came from his accuser, who is white. 
Bell maintains the charge was devised by his company commander to free up for one of his aides Bell's slot for an NCO school. The Army had no eomment on that daim. 
•V · · · T The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1993 
Scientists: Mutations can fix human genes 
BOSTON (AP) -For the first The two people -a baby girl time, scientists have found that and a 25-year-old man ­a mutation can fix a bad human should have inherited muscular gene so it works normally dystrophy but did not. Instead, again. they "are examples of complete 
In these cases, the mutation spontaneous corrections of my­corrected the genetic error that otonic dystrophy mutations," colleagues from University Hospital in Nijmegen. 
Dr. Robert Korneluk and others from the University of Ottawa in Canada reported a similar case in the Feb. 5 issue 
causes myotonic dystrophy, the wrote Dr. Han Brunner and of the journal Science. 
most common adult form of r::===------::::::;=--==----------------, re-
Th Ob
muscular dystrophy. As a suit. children who seemed des­tined to inherit the disorder avoided it. 
"It's incredibly fascinating, and it's of great importance in terms of human genetics and disease," said Dr. Henry Epstein of Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. 
Genes contain the code for the body to assemble proteins. Many inherited diseases arise when this code becomes gar­bled. As a result, the gene makes a defeetive protein or none at all. 
In the case of myotonic dys­trophy, mutations occur in a gene that contains instructions for making an enzyme that regulates other proteins found 
in cell walls. 

The disease affects about one in eyery 7,000 to 8,000 people worldwide. It causes weakness 
e W 1
ser'7jer 

PHOTO DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a 
resume to Jake Peters by 5 p.m., Tuesday, February 23. Contact Jake at 631-5323 for more information about any position. 


Thursday, February 18, 1993 


Women's Self Defense Class 
6 week class starting 2/23 
Morning Classes-Limited Space 
Flex & Sweat Aerobic Club 
255-1755 
Missed Valentine's Day? 
IRISH GARDENS SALE! 

• I dozen roses-$20  • I /2 dozen roses-$I 0  
• pre-made bouquets­ • carnations/ daisies­ 
$2 (reg. $4)  $! per stem  

Basement of LaFortune 
12:30-5:30 

Visa/MC accepted Delivery to ND/SMC/Off Campus 

Come see World Champion Pool Player 
Nick Varner 
on Februarv 24th as he plays against Notre Dame's Campus Champion 
in the Ballroom at 8:00p.m. 
Admission is free and popcorn will be served!!! 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 


The Observer page 7 
Republicans scoff at Clinton's plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­gressional Republicans scorned President Clinton's economic package Wednesday as a stag­gering round of tax hikes and said Americans don't need to wonder "for whom the tax rises -it will rise for you." 
While Republicans condemned the plan, Democrats generally praised it, while conceding that enactment of the $499 billion blend of tax hikes and spending cuts would be difficult to achieve. 
Hard choices are "necessary if we are going to pay our bills and not just charge on our grandchildren's credit card," said Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla. 
House Minority Leader Robert Michel, in delivering the official GOP response, said Clinton hadn't offered any long-term plan for economic growth, but merely a package to raise taxes on nearly all Americans. 
"There are those who say some taxes are a necessary evil," the Illinois Republican said in his televised response. "The difference is that Democrats stress the word 'necessary' and Republicans stress the word 'evil."' 
"When you hear a Democrat call for taxes, do not ask for whom the tax rises -it will rise for you," Michel said. 
Republican lawmakers had belittled the Democratic plan even before it was delivered, wearing buttons throughout the day .that said, "Tax and Spend. Again," or "It's Spending, Stupid." 
Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, called the address "Jimmy Carter in Bill Clinton clothing," and said that while Clinton had pointed out the nation's maladies, "the prescription is to hit the patient over the head with a two-by-four." 
The special interest reaction was predictable, with business, senior citizen and federal worker groups condemning Clinton's proposed tax increases and budget cuts or freezes. 
Environmentalists, education and public works groups praised the president's new in­vestments in their areas. Tax­limitation groups complained and said former President Bush at least had waited a year to break his "no new taxes" pledge. 
"Clinton hasn't yet unpacked before he had his hands head­ing for our pockets," said Grover Norquist of the Ameri­cans for Tax Reform. 
Democrats found the positive in the first economic plan to emerge from a Democratic White House in 12 years. 
Health care seen absorbing one-fourth budget 
WASHINGTON (AP) Spending on health care is so out of control that it will account for nearly a quarter of the federal budget by 1998, the chief of the Congressional Budget Office said Wednesday. 
And a health financing expert at the General Accounting Office testified that cost controls for the Medicare health system 
Notre Dame 
Student and senior Thursday and Ticket Office. 

for older Americans are so lax that the system has become prey to "profiteers." 
Robert Reischauer, the budget office's director, said spending on health care consumed 13.4 percent of the federal budget in 1990 and will rise to 17.5 percent this year. 
In testimony delivered as the Clinton administration prepares 
presents 
Reserved seats: $7 
8:10p.m. .10p.m. 10p.m. 10 p.m. 10 p.m. 
ble Wednesday, ble at the LaFortune call: 631-8128. 

SENIOR 
its plan to reduce health care costs, Reischauer said his office projects the increases to continue and to total 23.6 per­cent of the budget by 1998. 
"That is a huge increase," Reischauer told the House Budget Committee. 
"Clearly it will be difficult if not impossible to balance the federal budget unless remedial steps are taken to reduce the cost of health care." 
Spending on hospital insur­ance under Medicare, one of the two principal areas of fed­eral health costs, will run an estimated $91 billion this year and is projected to rise to al­most $149 billion in 1998, the congressional budget director said. 
Over the past year spending on hospital care under the Medicare program has in­creased by 8 percent, he said. But other costs have risen even more dramatically, including 38 percent for home health care, 22 percent for hospice care and 28 percent for care at skilled nursing facilities," he said. 
"The reasons for such rapid growth vary and are not fully understood," Reischauer said. 
Medicare spending for the services of doctors is projected to increase by 11 percent a year for each person enrolled in the program, Reischauer said. 
The other principal govern­ment health program, Medi­caid, also has experienced an unprecedented cost increase, he said. 
!CLUB 
Apply today for the best job in the whole world! Applications can be picked up i-n the Student Activities Office 3rd floor LaFortune 
Deadline: March 5, 1993 

. 

a 
's evivel 
with Free Food, Drinks, Beads, Music & More! Lafortune Ballroom formerly Theodore's 


. 

TONIGHT 8-10 p.m. 




page 9 


DIPPING IS FOR DIPS 

~ .--------,--­
~ Hurry!
~ Only 1 House Left 
~ ·4 Bedroom 
~ ·Security System 
~ ·Fully Furnished 
~ 287-4989 
~ Laurie McKelvey 
~ $100 off 
-first months rent ~ with this ad 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 

~ j 
~ J 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 


~ SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX from $fQ9 
Thursday, February 18, 1993 The Observer 
China releases prominent student 
BEIJING (AP) -China re­Olympics movement. leased the most prominent stu­Wang Dan, who was No. 1 on dent leader of China's 1989 the wanted list issued by police democracy movement and two after the crushing of the other dissidents Wednesday in democracy movement, was what appeared to be a gesture freed along with another stu­to President Clinton and the dent leader, Guo Haifeng. Zhu 
The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kenya johnson by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kenya at 631-4540 for more information about either position. 


"Quality without compromise" 
'~----------------·----------------------..~---J 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
0 
-

1 And 2 Bedroom Apartments 
Apartments availiable for your selection. 
•9 MONTH LEASES• • All utilities included• • Relaxed, Secure Environment• 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 
Hongsheng, a 76-year-old Catholic priest from Shanghai, also was released. 
The early releases came just 

two weeks before a high-level 
delegation from the Interna­
tional Olympic Committee is to 
visit Beijing, whose leaders 
have made clear their strong 
desire to be host of the Summer 
Olympic Games in 2000. 
The three paroles also might 

be intended as a goodwill ges­
ture to the new Clinton admin­
istration, which has promised 
to focus on human rights in 
foreign policy. 
The official Xinhua News 

Agency said Wang and Guo 
were released a few months 
early for good behavior. It said 
that with their release, all stu­
dents "who violated the crimi­
nal law" during the democracy 
protests had been freed. 
However, the government has 

not announced the release of 
many other students who are 
known to have been arrested 
after the democracy 
demanstrations in Beijing and 'other major cities. 
~ 5 and 7 NIGHTS 
~ DAYTONA BEACH, FL 
f.!) S AND 7 NIGHTS 
~ 1 PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL 
1 
~ 5 AND 7 NIGHTS rm STEAMBOA~ CO
fm 2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS rm MUSTANG ISLAND, T-X 
@J 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
rm HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC
fm 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
$ 
from 
68 
from$ 
8f 
$ 
from f29
$ 
"om 
fJ2 ,,om $f2f 

~ VAIL/BEAVERCREEK, CO from$299 
~ 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
.,.u':+ ~ PRICES FOR STAY-if ~ NOT PER NIGHT! • 
~ TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS f.!) 
1·800·321·5911 

l:@l~i'd!E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=i'd/E!=fdre!=fdff;!=fdre!=fdre!=fdre!=fdre!=fdffi!=fdffi!=fdre!=fdff;!=fdre!=fdffi!=fdffi!=fdffi!= 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, February 18, 1993 
The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •..••••••••..Michael Scrudato Production Manager ....•.... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ......•.•..... Patrick Barth Photo Edltor.••........ Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor..Anna Marie Tabor Controller..•..................... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible .. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

Cultural diversity is definitely the hot political topic on cam­pus right now. Jesse Jackson recently came to campus to 
Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 
promote his vision of cultural diversity. Tlw Notre Dame ad­ministration has published sev­eral studies promoting its vi­sion. Students an~ also bncom­ing active on this issue, as this year's student government campaigns indicate. 

Unfortunately, no one seems interested in promoting true cultural diversity. Instead, "cunural diversity" has become relations may promote other merely a new pawn in the old important goals, but they have game of racial politics. Fur­little to do with true cultural di­thermore, this development is versity. 
doing great damage to the Even if the goal of "cultural cause of true cultural diversity. diversity" proponents is to promote purely American cul­Taken literally. promoting tural diversity, they fail. Amer· "cultural diversity" means ica is home to a rich mosaic of bringing students into contact different cultures, but "cultural with cultures that are unfamil­diversity" backers do not seem iar to them. Presumably, the very interested in them. greater the difference between Bringing together middle class the cultures, the better cultural suburban and urban students of diversity is promoted: bringing different races certainly a white student from the Mid­achieves some cultural diver­
west into contact with an sity, but not nearly as much as African-American student from as is possible. the Midwest promotes cultural Where are the Navajo stu­diversity less than bringing ei­dents from their ancestral vil­ther student into contact with lages in the Southwest? Where someone from New Delhi, India. are the Finns and Norwegians 
Likewise, requiring a student from the tough mining towns of from suburban Chicago to study northern Minnesota? Where are ancient Chinese philosophers the African-Americans from will achieve greater cultural small towns like Possum Neck, diversity than requiring the Mississippi (pop. 325)? How same student to study race about the Jews from New York wlations in Chicago. Admitting and the Asians from San the student from Illinois and Francisco? More importantly, requiring the course in race where is the agitation to get 
DOONESBURY 

these groups represented on campus? 
In other words, "cultural di­versity" has little to do with di­verse cultures, but has a lot to do with racial politics. As we all know by now, the term is merely a euphemism for "affirmative action," "black power" and "Hispanic power." for that matter,. "affirmative action" is itself a euphemism for "racial preferences for dis­advantaged minorities." How­ever, repeated public opinion studies have shown that sixty to eighty percent of Americans oppose racial preferences for any group. 
Even larger majorities oppose "black power" and "Hispanic power." As a result, racial minorities, like any other smart special interest group. have sought to make their proposals more popular, and one way to do that is to give them different names. The term "cultural diversity" is therefore nothing more or less than a clever maneuver in the struggle of racial politics. 
One caveat is appropriate here; no one should criticize minority groups solely for playing politics. All special in­terest groups play politics to get their way. They try to put the best possible faces on their agendas and engage in public r·elations campaigns. If they hold an unpopular position, they generally use positive euphemisms to describe it. That's how politics works. If we want to condemn minority groups for doing it, we must condemn Right to Life, the Col­lege Democrats, the Federalist Society, and every other Notre Dame political group. 
However, none of this excuses the damage which "cultural diversity" proponents are doing to the cause of true cultural diversity. Their whole mission is to convince decision-makers and the general public that the traditional minority agenda is synonymous with true cultural diversity. They have been at 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

50HOIAJ 
A80/JT/T, 
UNCU­CANYa.J 
5{;N[)Itf& 
A Ff3IAJ Uf?S? 
a<A~ I'LL 
TAl<& YOUR. CRI?I3R N(}tl.). aJIU-7HI'3 88 
A Cf(AI<I3t -r 
PA!11N,AU 
OUR.UN&S AR£81.15Y! 
IF YOU'/) l/1<& 70 HANG UP, PR£55 0/'1!3. IF YaJ'/?/..1/(8 7D PR£55 TIIJO,£:N­7&R. 7H&1A5TFIV/3 f}/6179 OF YWR. 
f!IRJY5fX!lN3/0N. 
00 YOU HAVe 
A FRIIiNPPJHO'P til<& 70 RCC£/vt a.JRCATA/..(}(j? 
tuHOCAR£S? 

least partially successful, and the price of their success has been tragic injury to the cause of true cultural diversity. 
Whenever someone talks about the importance of "multicultural awareness," "cultural diversity," or any sim· ilar topic, the audience assumes they are really talking about minority issues, an assumption many advocates of true cultural diversity find difficult to overcome. Worse, University officials and other decision­makers often assume that their duty to cultural diversity is done once they give minority students an affirmative action program or increased financial aid. 
America is more isolated from foreign cultures than any other developed nation. We are separated from Europe and Asia by vast oceans. Our closest foreign neighbors are hundreds of miles from most Americans and are so heavily influenced by our culture that they are often hardly foreign at all. If there is any country in need of true multicultural awareness, it is America. If there are any students who should be exposed to true cultural diversity, they are American students. 
Study abroad programs. re­cruitment of foreign students and professors, and required courses in the study of foreign civilizations are all vital win­dows into cultures not our own. However important their goals, special interest groups must not shut these windows by dressing their agendas in the camouflage of "cultural diversity." 
Rick Acker is a 1992 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School and is currently doing research there. 
'No man resolved to make the most of himself can spare time for personal contention.' 
Abraham Lincoln 

QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Thursday, February 18, 1993 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Moral choice would be to admit Haitian refugees 
Dear Editor: 
The United States of America is a country founded by immi­grants, built by the toil and la­bor of immigrants. and made great through the vision and hard work of immigrants and their descendants. The Statue of Liberty stands as a reminder of all the values the U.S. cher­ishes: safety for the oppressed, economic opportunity, and a chance for a new life. While all these facets are ideal, they still are part of "the American Dream." 
Throughout the past few centuries, the bulk of what is now the U.S. was created through emigration of millions from Europe, Asia, and Africa. 
At the gates of this cradle of lib­erty and of "the enlightened" stands a people sorely op­pressed, The Haitians. I agree fully with Jesse Jackson on this issue and admire his ability as both a politician and preacher to bring Christ's message to a relevant pressing issue. 
For what reasons should the Haitians not be admitted? Does the U.S still have the world's largest economy? Are we not a resource rich nation? Is this still a growing economy? Does the U.S. still have one of the largest and most lucrative job markets in the world? More importantly, does the U.S. hold a double standard by not allow­ing the Haitians harbor from oppression? Would a group of similarly afflicted white people be allowed entry? Is racism in­volved? Do we fear Haitians and stereotype them as all HIV infected? We must not let this hypocrisy stand. 

Christ welcomed lepers, beg­gars, and the downtrodden with healing open arms. So must we accept the Haitians who are among the oppressed in the world. So this may not be an easy solution and it may cause tension. Martin Luther King Jr. said "Peace is not merely the absence of tension. It is the presence of justice." King's words still resound today and can be directly applied to this situation. Social justice is 
Reader responds to Hillary criticism 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to thank Mr. Vic­tor Morton for clearing up those misconceptions concerning the appointment of Hillary Clinton to the chair of the nation's task force on health care [Letters, Feb. 16]. Although "no one denies Hillary's competence and general qualifications to hold a cabinet post in a liberal administration on her own merit," God forbid she should chair anything in this adminis­tration! 
We should criticize Hillary be­cause she probably would not have received this appointment if Clinton had not won the elec­tion. Of course we will overlook the fact that the same holds true for most every other ap­pointee. as different leaders with varied personalitie.•; will make different choices from the pool of the qualified. But Hillary is our President's wife, and how dare she attempt to work for him! Now that Mr. Morton has enlightened us, we have her number. 
We all know to be First Lady necessarily entails that one re­strict her activities to picking her husbands ties and running White House charities, and we take offense that some upstart should think otherwise. We know any woman who would want to work for her husband is enslaving herself and rendering her marriage a type of "slavery." 
And of course it must follow that a woman holding a job naturally has contempt for other women's choices to be full-time home-makers. No matter how much attention and love she gives her child, we all know working mothers must be against the "traditional family," destructive to "family au­thority," and by extenuation bad mothers. And we know she must feel guilty, as will be proven by all those future Freudian slips, which Mr. Mor­ton has already begun to count ' and, in his vast psychoanalytic experience, interpret. 
In addition to her intelligence and experience in law, negotia­tion, collection and collation of information, Hillary's unique access to the President makes her all the more qualified for this position. But a President's spouse should never hold an official position in the adminis­tration because personal con­nections and emotions would cripple them and their co­workers. Forget the thousands of family-run businesses, in­cluding husband and wife op­erations, which make ·a suc­cessful go at it every year. 
Of course we should censure a woman for being so involved in her husband's life. And when she attempts to separate her identity from her husbands by the inclusion of her maiden name in her address, well we should criticize her for that too! And while we're at it, let's re­ally convolute things. Let's say feminists, in particular those at Wellesley College, felt betrayed by Barbara Bush gaining prominence merely by virtue of who she was married to. 
Now let's add that Hillary "has betrayed feminism" by holding a government position under her husband and by her own efforts in that job is achieving something in her own right. Can we say, "Trapped?" 


Morton's definition of feminism (and I doubt he would know a feminist if he sat on one) has got women coming and going. But of course, he could not have misinterpreted. 
I acknowledge Mr. Morton's right to hold and voice his opinions, and furthermore I applaud his initiative (honestly). However, I must express a spe­cial thanks for a certain few items brought to light: 
A big "Thank you" to Mr. Morton for re-introducing us with that lovely political cartoon that plays off the horrors of gang rape with such sensitivity (I don't care if it was drawn by a democrat!) And thanks for the point he made with it; in the grand scheme of things, the Republican convention's (and his recent own) trashing of Hillary was not as bad as raping her?! 
I want to thank Mr. Morton for instructing us that he does not object to a president's wife being even "the closest and most trusted adviser" to her spouse. His objection is to the "appearance" that this is true. Therefore, it is allowable for a First Lady to fill this role, just so long as it" is not made "official." We wouldn't want to create any unnecessary impressions" that a First Lady's abilities, insights, and efforts could matter or be of use. 
And finally, thank you for that final-line insinuation that Hillary has opportunistically slept her way to the top. Yes, thanks for clearing all this up. 
Mr. Morton says his offense at Hillary's appointment does not "have anything to do with sexism." But then, there's a word for someone who claims one thing and whose actions and beliefs say another. 
Heidi Laura Toboni Farley Hall Feb.16,1993 

demanding. It does not follow laws. It often does not follow societal definition~ of "reason." However, the acceptance .of Haitians I believe can only add to the strength of the nation. 
In my own life, I have an ex­ample. I went to high school with a kid Jean-Luc·. He was Haitian. His parents had to work hard, and he had to work hard. He was unbelievably fast, a record setter in New Jersey for several track events. His hard work paid off and he is now attending UNC at Chapel Hill on a track scholarship. He had a keen mind and an ability to debate all because of the tools afforded him, primarily education. If he has made it, 
why can't others. Look at other examples throughout history of immi­
.grants traditionally stereotyped as lazy or having nothing to of­fer society: the Irish, the Ital­ians, African-Americans, and Koreans. What is different about the Haitians? Why can't this group make it to? The U.S. has resource capability, obvi­ously. Christ accepted the downtrodden. Moral conscience demands the admittance of the oppressed Haitians. 
David M. McMahon Morrissey Manor Feb.15,1993 

"INEBRIATION are unruly. · .eontigoa. 
w.y can't 1seeyqu JEALOUSY 
as Pearl Jam cr{)Ons I think9f how much lknew <ind what I cared for 
·.. PONDER energetic thought whyis it not for real who can say but me CONFUSION w fm forgotten ·you'll ... .. ating with sizzle -ride tbe sultry dream -EXCITEMENT the future holds what I cannot say vividly Ot~lt$~ slime and cola FICKLE flel'Y questions are you in pain like lam? Jesu.s~I hope not." 


seven names .. and oii~ w~s Bert, · ·Thames. 
He called his dog apot3lypse and on ·9n Carl autif .• called ~ Joe, 
Oh b ·· d that dog snarl 
There are but two more names, you see, by which Jim's dog was known, The t'i · ·... hicb\\1~ f(Qly Ghost, Tbelastc n JoMS· 
Latex Jim, he knew his dog was something quite unique. Not unJifv~ all those stu4ents you'ye;pa!lsed off as·a.geek 
And as Jimbo, his dog in hand Walked under skies of red, It was more that easy to see That}li$ poor pet was dead, 
But to Jim with plastic gloves, this hemisphere didn't matter. Cuz Berthis dog was worth to him Praise ul) a silver platter 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. llox Q 
.Notre Q~1lt¢~ Indian~•.46556 
~· 
' -._, 

Accent 
page 12 Thursday, February 18, 1993 
Literally speaking 
The Sophomore Literary Festival offers students an opportunity to meet authors 
Chittister to discuss role ol women in the Church 
By MARY B. GOOD energy and life in Christianity. Accent Writer This Saturday's seminar will consist of two lectures which will offer a 
Sister Joan Chittister, a world refreshing new approach to the role of renowned author and speaker. will women in the Church. pn~sent her feminist views of the Church 
to members of the Saint Mary's and ller first lecture, "Woman Icon: Rebel Notre Dame communities Saturday, or Saint?" will deal with the unfair according to Dr. Keith Egan of the Center choice that women face-the choice for Spirituality. between conforming to the stereotypical 
manifestation of femininity, or rebelling Chittister, who holds an honorary against it. 
doctorate from Saint Mary's, publishes Women who choose to become what rPgularly in the National Catholic Chittister labels "icons" serve as passive Reporter and is in residence this year on . members of their gender not only in the 
Saint Mary's campus. Church, but in greater society as well, <
,.1-­
According to Egan, Chittister's Chittister said. 

Joan Chittister, pictured here at Saint Mary's 1991 commencement, will speak this 
message centers on women's place and If women do not rebel against the 
Saturday at the Carroll auditorium.
potential within the Church. She focuses discriminatory expectations placed upon on the need for women to play an ·active them, they will continue to be the Church and its relationship to women." role in their faith. mrsrepresented and mistreated in women. "Eve is a strong woman in The lecture will present the audience 
"(She wants them) not to remain society, Chittister said. scripture, although she is often with a modern analysis of Eve and what 
By LISA WOLTER 
Accent Writer 
The upcoming annual Sophomore Literary Festival is described as "a celebration of 

. .,. 
litnrature" by sophomore Kerry McArdle, a member on the committee for this year's Festival. 
"Actually talking to the authors gives a whole new dimension to the readings," MeArdln said. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival takes place every winter and gives Notre Dame 
'Actually talking to 
the authors gives a 
whole new dimension 
to the readings.' 
-Kerry McArdle 

..., . 
students an opportunity to meet and exchange ideas with a diverse group of authors, said McArdle. 
The authors who will present readings for this year's Festival were sent invitations last summer from a fourteen person committee of selected sophomores and faculty members. 
The students who are presently on the committee applied for the position as freshmen because of their interest in literature, said McArdle, and any current freshman who is interested should obtain an application. 

1993 . ... .. Sophom~······1..•
Literary ·....··· .. Festival 

The Sophomore Literary Festival begins on Sunday, February 21 featuring poet Nikki Giovanni. Other artists who will speak during the week-long festival are Tim O'Brien on February 22, Ms. Gloria Naylor on February 23, Marge Piercy on February 24 and Edward Alben on February 
25. All of the artist's readings will take place in the Library Auditorium with a reception in the Library Lounge immediately following. 
Several additional events have also been planned in which the authors will participate. Giovanni and O'Brien will conduct informal discussions at noon in the Library Lounge the day after their readings. Giovanni will also lead a feminist forum meeting at 3 p.m. on February 21 in the The featured artist, Nikki past 20 years and is hailed as ability to make a difference in Foster Room of LaFortune. Giovanni, was born in 1943 in one of America's finest artists. other's lives through her 
Naylor will be signing books Knoxville, Tennessee and Giovanni has been referred to actions. Giovanni continued. at Little Professor Bookstore attended Fisk University in as a "revolutionary poet" "You will find that what you from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. on 1967. She has published nearly because of her battle for civil have .coveted is not worth February 23 and Piercy will 20 books, made six records, and rights and equality in coveting...There is a limit to speak to a Freshman Seminar a movie has been made based education. However, in her what material things can do." at 8:30 p.m. on February 24 in on her work. lectures she now speaks with a The Sophomore Literary the Library Lounge. All that note of humor and sensitivity Festival exists because "it is are interested are welcome to Giovanni was nicknamed the about her life, her work and on necessary to keep literature attend. "Princess of Black Poetry" after human creativity. alive at Notre Dame," said 
Albee will give a creative the publication of her first book "Do something with your life!" Kerry McArdle. For more writing seminar at 9 p.m. on of poetry, "Black Feeling Black Giovanni recently said to an information on the events, February 26, yet this event is Talk." Giovanni has proudly audience at M.I.T. The poet contact the Student Union already filled to capacity. maintained this title over the concentrates on an individual's Board Office. 
Poet Nikki Giovanni will be featured on Sunday, February 21, and will also lead a feminist forum meeting at 3 
p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 
passive, but to share their stories and misinterpreted," said Chittister. This she really says about women. take leadership roles," Egan said. "She This sexism exists in the Church as misinterpretation breeds many Chittister's contemporary approach to is an active partieipant through her well as in the family where women destructive consequences for women, feminism in the Chureh should open the speaking, teaching, and writing." assume the role of facilitator more than she added. eyes and minds of her receivers. 
This same theme runs strongly any other family member. Chittister will through many of her works. Chittister is examine this unfavorable choice in The lecture will focus on "the Registration for the seminar will be a widely published author of books greater detail, and also look at a woman relationship of traditional theology of Saturday from 12:30 to 1 p.m., and the criticizing but also challenging the icon, Eve. Eve and what I think is distinctive of lectures will run from 1 p.m. until 4:30 contmnporary Catholic Church. Chittister According to Chittister, her second scripture for men as well as women," p.m. in Carroll auditorium. The fee will has even been labeled "prophetic," said lecture, "New Theology of Eve: The Story Chittister said. "(It) has a lot to do with be $6 at the door, and $3 for CSCs and Egan. Her ideas move people to new of Women," will challenge the history of men and the way they understand Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students. 

Thursday, February 18, 1993 The Observer 
page 13 

Cavs pummel hapless Mavs; Knicks, Bulls win 
RICHFIELD, Ohio (AP) ­The surging Cleveland Cavaliers closed the first quarter with a 10-3 spurt, and were not challenged again as they beat Dallas 124-97 Wednesday night, keeping the Mavericks on pace for the NBA's worst record ever. 
Terrell Brandon led Cleveland, which won its fourth straight and ninth in 10 games, with 20 points. Mark Price and Danny Ferry scored 16 points apiece, and Gerald Wilkins added 14. 
The Mavericks (4-45) have lost seven straight games overall and all 22 on the road this season. At their current pace, they would win seven games, worse than the mark of nine established by the Philadelphia 76ers in 1972-73. 
Rookie Sean Rooks had 19 points and eight rebounds for the Mavericks. Randy White scored 17 and Terry Davis 14. 
Pacers 125, Kings 99 

INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana broke its longest losing streak in four years as Kenny Williams came off the bench for 16 points and a career-high 12 rebounds. 
The victory snapped the Pacers' seven-game slide. Reggie Miller led Indianas with 27 points, 13 in the final 
3:05. Detlef Schrempf had 25 points to go with 11 rebounds, helping Indiana post a 53-41 advantage off the boards. 
Indiana, which hasn't lost to the Kings at Market Square Arena since 1986, took the lead for good as it hit seven straight shots and nine of its first 11 to build a 19-10 advantage. 
Sacramento, which lost its ninth game in 10 starts, got 23 points from Lionel Simmons and 19 points from Spud Webb. 
Knicks 124, Hornets 116 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Patrick Ewing scored 43 points and John Starks a career-high 39, New York Knicks had to fight back from a 13-point deficit. 

Ewing, who also grabbed 12 rebounds, scored 31 of his season-high total in the second half, including eight during a key 14-0 run that began in the final moments of the third quarter. 
The Knicks started the run trailing 95-84. Starks, whose 39 points came on 13-for-21 shooting -he also had 13 assists -ended the spurt at 
9:47 with a layup to give New York a 98-95 lead. New York outscored Charlotte 34-21 in the fourth quarter. 
Hornets center Alonzo Mourning, who followed Ewing at Georgetown, led Charlotte with a career-high 35 points. Larry Johnson added 31 points for the Hornets. 
Heat 111, Pistons 107 
MIAMI -Glen Rice scored 33 points, and Miami Heat held off a late 3-point barrage to beat outmanned Detroit, handing the Pistons their 11th consecutive road loss. 
All-Star guard Isiah Thomas played only a minute in the second half before leaving the game for good with a strained Achilles tendon. The Pistons also lost Orlando Woolridge, who fractured a hand against a backboard in the third quarter. 
Mark Aguirre led Detroit with 29 points -21 in the final quarter. Joe Dumars ·added 25 points. 
Magic 111, Nuggets 99 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Shaquille O'Neal had 24 points and 18 rebounds, and Orlando used a 16-point run to start the second half against poor-shooting Denver Nuggets. 
Leading 57-54 at the break, the Magic took command when the Nuggets missed their first 11 shots of the second half. Nick Anderson led the decisive run with eight of his 22 points. 
Scott Skiles had 21 points and a season-high 19 assists for Orlando. Chris Jackson led Denver with 25 points. 
Denver ended the Orlando run when Robert Pack made a layup with 6:44 remaining in the third quarter to cut the lead to 73-56. Orlando twice stretched its lead to 21 points, and held an 8 7-71 advantage after three periods. 
Bulls 114, Jazz 96 
CHICAGO -Michael Jordan scored 27 points in three quarters on his 30th birthday, then took the final period off. 
It was the seventh victory in the last nine games for the Bulls. 
Karl Malone led the Jazz with 20 points. B.J. Armstrong had 15 points for the Bulls and Scottie Pippen 14. 
It was 77-61 after three quarters, with the reserves finishing up for Chicago. 
Stacey King and Armstrong combined for 14 points in the second quarter and the Bulls pulled ahead 50-32 before Malone and Ty Corbin scored Utah's last seven points to cut the halftime lead to 52-39. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Notices 
TYPING 287·4082 
TYPING 256·6657 
Part-time work in publishing/distribution. Creative skills, PC knowledge helpful. PO Box 1349 South Bend IN 46634 
'SENIORS' $5 BUS TO CHICAGO This Friday Scavenger Hunt Bus Leaves 6:15pm returns 3:30am SIGN UP NOW @ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
'THE DATING GAME' Come to Senior Bar This Thurs 8:00 Donations taken for St. Hedwigs 
Class T-Shirts are now in!! $8 buy @ Sr. Class Office 
The Official St. Patrick's Day T·Shirt only $10 
..... SENIORS ..... 

Help. Our president has gone insane. Joe Huston has priced the Senior Class trip to Chicgo for only $5 on sale at LaFortune. Also class shirts for only $8, sweatshirts for $25 and St. Pat's shirts for just $10 all available in the class office. If you see him don't panic. Call ND Security immediately. Thank-you. 
JB, KF, and AK 

Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12·4 daily 233· 2342 ND Ave & Howard 
ECON TUTOR Principles/In! Manageriai/BCA Call Tony Sindone 1-325·8918 
Rider sought returning from spring break in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian 3677. 
GRE TUTOR TOM 288-6578 
Eat the GRE for lunch!!! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST· Men's tan leather jacket with leather gloves in the pockets. Lost during the I.S.O. party at the Greek Orthodox church. Please call Rich at x4153. 
LOST: Gold circle earring on a dangling hook at Keenan Revu&-1/28 Call 284-5254 
LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. Lost on 2/9/93. REWARD!!! If found contact Bully at x3772. 
LOST: heavy gold tone chain link bracelet somewhere between north quad and Debartolo on 2/5. Great sentimental value . Call Liz x1345 
Found: jacket at Corby's the first week of school. Call271-7288 and ask for Mary to identify. 
LOST-Men's black wool dress coat during ISO party. -Was Christmas gift. Please call Chuck at #3277 
LOST LOST LOST LOST BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER GLOVES at SOUTH DINING HALL on Fri. 2/12. CALL JACKIE at x2205. 
At the DILLON FORMAL, we switched long, green coats. Mine is blue-green with apple stitches on the inside. Call Molly x4121 
Lost: one watch at the Holy Cross Formal while at Holy Cross. If found, please contact Eric at '4284. 
Lost: Long, forest green wool coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our coats were accidently switched · I 
have a similar, bluish-green coat. 
Please hurry · JPW is coming up! Call4966. 
Did you take the wrong navy blazer from the Lyons-Howard formal on 
February 6? 
I am missing a Wimbeldon brand 
blazer from that dance and desperately need it tor JPW this 
weekend. 
Please call Tim at 1422. 
Found: one slightly damaged gold earring 2/16, in B1 parking lot 
between stadium and DeBart. Call 
Ron at 273-1871 to identify. 
Attention! I found your gold, 
claddagh earring! Call4-3842. 
WANTED r 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PR~STIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your blllldle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1·800·682-8628. 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT · 
Make money teaching basic 
conversational English abroad. 
Japan and Taiwan. Many provide 
room & board + other benefits! 
Make $2,000-$4,000+ per month. 
No previous training or teaching 
certificate required. For employment 
program call: 
(206) 632·1146 ext. J5584. 

Mothers helper needed part time days and evenings. Perfect for summer job also. Must be friendly, with experience and own car. 232­2201 
YO! 

I NEED A RIDE To DE, PA, So. NJ for Spring Break Call SEAN x1605 
NEEDED: A RIDE TO DES MOINES FOR SPRING BREAK­JEREMY X1750 
Help! Need ride to DE/PA for Spring Break · leave Thur/Fri Will Pay $ Amanda x4957 
SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach 
wanted for H.S. level team. Call 
277-4791 for details. 
Seeking ride for 2 to Miami of Ohio or Cincinatti area this Friday. Will help pay gas/tolls. Call Brent x3345 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn $2,000+/month + world travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career 
employment available. No 
experience necessary." For 
employment program call 
1-206·634-0468 ext. C5584. 
Help Help! Help! Help! Help! 
Desperate female seeking ride to 
Washington D.C. for Spring Break. 
Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Leah@ 

284-4308, leave message. 
Babysitting Position Looking for 1 full time or 2 part timE students to babysit in our home for our 11 month old child. Must have references and own transportation. Please call for an interview...287 · 3297 
Are you going to Iowa City on Friday? Please take me, I want to visit my friends at the University of Iowa for the weekend! Will help pay gas &tolls. CALL Molly at x1311 
Ride(s) needed to Washington DC area for spring break. Flexible on date and time of departure. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call and a_?k for anyone at X4721 or X4758. 
Need Ride to Michigan State 
forJPW. 
Call Tom 1232 
HELP! 

I need a ride to the D.C. 
area for break. Will help 
with gas and tolls. 
Call X3823. 
FOR RENT 

Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom House now for 93·94 school year 234·1886 
FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291-7153. 
4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. 

GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL MONICA 232·2794. 
6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272·6306 
FOR SALE 

New JVC Stereo System With Infinity Speakers. Tuner, Disc, Double Cassette. 
Half Price 
Call 1·8323 
Oak Hill Condo For Sale 3 bdrm, 3 bath, family room 
271-7288 
PERSONAL 

ADOPTION: Were you overwhelmed when you found out you were pregnant? We were overwhelmed when we found out we couldn't have children. We're a Catholic nurse/doctor couple happily married for 9 years. If you want your baby to grow up with patient, loving parents, a large extended family, & two very sweet dogs, please call Mary and Michael 1·800· 759-6039. 
To our GOLDEN GIRL in Walsh Hall! We are so looking forward to JPW not because it is our "second," not because it is our last, but because we will spend an entire weekend with you. You are the sunshine in our family, Erin. We love you. Mom and Dad. 
We have an awesome hotel room in Daytona for Spring Break, but we need 2 more girls to go in with us. Only $130 for the week + gas $. Call Nicole or Michelle x4530. 
HI Meg, Felicia, Shannon 
WE MISS YOU! 
I need someone to play with !I'm looking for anyone who is a more­than-novice, less than Grandmaster chess or GO player . Call Sarah x2969 
..........SENIORS""""" LAST DAY TO BORROW From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Is 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 19th 
30 Day Loans@ 1% Interest Up to $250 
Mon.-Fri. 11:30-12:30 
1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
*""**"'**HELP!!*'****** 
DESPERATE BUT BEAUTIFUL GIRL SEEKS A RIDE TO/FROM PHILA. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL LIZ, X2373 
I wait 3 1/2 years for a car. 
Dad finally gives me one. On the day I bring it back to 
school, I lose the keyring with both 
sets of keys. There are no more copies. Now, it's rusting away in D-2. Who am I? 
PUPPIES! 
Happy 22nd Birthday 
Colleen Lynn! 
Man, are you OLD!!! 
Only 89 days left. Enjoy 
your day. Wait until you 
see what evil we have in store for you. 
!!!!1!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!! 
Will Lorrei's snap-a-scam man 
please reveal himself. 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!1!1!!!!!!! 

Fern, I wanted to say thanks for all help you gave me on the paper from hell. You are the greatest, ask Linus he knows. Love ya sis, Bud 
Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232· 5843. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the c[ty; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
I'm driving to Syracuse soon for 1-2 days and would rather not drive 1 0 hours alone. Want to come? Patty X4055. 
•..SPRING BREAK LOANS'.. 
From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 Day Loans Up to $250 @1% Interest 
Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
Where can you get PIZZA CHIPS &SALSA NACHOS MOCKTAILS BEER (0 proof) BEAD NECKLACES MUSIC DANCING AND MORE All for FREE? At SADD's PSYCHO SOIREE (a 60's revival) Thursday, February 18 LaFun Ballroom 8-IOpm 
WATER POLO STUD Hey, sweetie!! Well, I hope you made it through the week. I wanted to wish you GOOD LUCK this weekend. You're my one and only "hole man"! Thanks again for last weekend. You're the best!!! 
Love you, Carrie 
To Madonna, Joy and Pain .... how do our obsessions f~?ed each other? 
Tschupp: Smile!:) 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL SIGN· UPS are FAST approaching. Make sure you are ready by 
Sign-up day · February 28th. 
Otherwise you'll end up stuck playing with 4 people who are worse than you!!! 
Top 12 Quotes from Holy Cross Hall V-Oay Formal rm120 12 The bar rocks my world 11 Do you know what a magnum is? 10 "You picked a fine time to leave me Lucille" 
9 Don't bark up the wong tree! 8 Welcome to the love shack 7 I am sooo dizzy 6 What's a smurf? 5 Hey guys, let's hoola 4YMCA 3 Her nickname is boo-tay 2 All couples must do bjs 1 High-low, high-low, high-lo 
Thanks manor men tor the great time! Love, L,K, E & J 


page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 18, 1993 
..... ..... ...... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ...... <:"" 
--~ -0 • ~ : ·: ·: :: :: : :: :: :: :: : ~\ 0 • 
..e;­

c::::> ..;.~ < ~ ••••• • • • •••••• •••••• •••••• • • ••••••• •••••• • • ~ :::. ' ~'i) 0: 
~ ·,~ ~~\. ~ _.. . : : . : : : . . . : i : : : : : : . . . : : "'\7t~:rJ' '#1/ ~ .. -· 
..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . .. . ...... .. 
BOX SCORES _...,._.
NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
'' 
MARQUETTE 69, NOTRE DAME 6t

EASTERN CONFERENCE MARQUETTE (t8-4) WALES CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Dlvlalon Eford 4-10 7-9 19, Curry 4-9 2-4 tt, Key Patrlclc Dlvlalon 
W L Pta W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni
T CF GA Home Away DIY 6-t1 8-6 t8, Miller 3-7 0-1 7, Logtermen

Pittsburgh 3 7 1 5 5 79 24t t84 New York 34 t6 .680 9-t Won2 22-4 t2-t2 24-tO
22-4-3 15-tt-2 16-5-2 1-6 t-2 4, Gates 0-2 0-2 0, Mcilvaine 4-5
Washington 211 22 6 84 234 207 New Jersey 3 0 2t .588 4 t/2 6-4 Won2 17-8 t3-t3 t9-13
t2-7-5 17-t5-t 9-tt-2 Boston 26 23 .531 7 t/2 6-4 Lost 2 15-7 2-2 10, Smith 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 22-50 18­
New Jersey 2 8 2 4 4 eo 202 11-t6 20-t4
t98 t7-t0-t tt-14-3 t2-12-t 26 69.
NY Rangers 2 5 2 4 9 59 Orlando 24 23 .5tt 8 1/2 6-4 Wont t5-10 9-t3 t5-t6
226 22t 17-8-4 8-16-5 t 0-t4-3 Philadelphia t 8 30 .375 t5 2-8 Lost 1 9-t5 NOTRE DAME (9-t3) 
NY Islanders 2 6 2 5 6 56 9-t5 t4-21
237 207 t4-t2-2 12-13-4 13-tt-t Williams 2-t4 6-tO tO, Taylor t-6 0-0 3,
Philadelphia t 9 2 8 t 0 48 Miami 18 3t .367 15 1/2 6-4 Won2 12-12 8-19 1t-22
2t8 232 14-tt-4 5-17-8 

7-t4-3 Washington t 5 35 .300 t9 3-7 Lost 4 10-t3 Jon Ross 7-9 2-2 17, Hoover 3-t4 3-4 tt
Adama Dlvlalon 5-22 8-23 
Central Dlvlalon Justice 6-6 t-t t4, Boyer t-t 2-2 4, Jo~Montreal 3 5 t 9 6 76 242 t96 2t-8-2 t4-t1-4 15-8-0 Chicago 35 t7 .673 7-3 t7-8 Ross 0-2 2-2 2, Russell 0-t 0-0 0, Ryan 0­
Quebec 3t t8 9 7t Won2 t8-9 2t-tt
236 209 t6-11-2 15-7-7 

t4-7-3 Cleveland 3 4 19 .642 1 t/2 9-1 Won4 23-5 0 0-0 0. Totals 20-57 16-21 61.
Boston 32 22 5 69 tt-14 22-t1
236 208 

t8-7-2 t4-t5-3 t3-8-t Charlotte 26 23 .531 7 t/2 7-3 Lost 2 13-12 Halftime-Notre Dame 32, Marquette 26.
Buffalo 30 22 6 66 13-t1 t7-t6
251 203 2t-6-2 9-16-4 t5-7-3 Atlanta 24 26 .480 t 0 5-5 Lost 2 12-12 3-polnt goals-Marquette 7-t6 (Eford 4-7,
Hartford t 5 3 8 4 34 t83 12-t4 15-20
26t 8-t7-4 7-21-0 8-t7-2 Indiana 2 3 2 8 .45t tt 1/2 3-7 Wont Curry t-t, Miller t-3, Logterman 1-5),
Ottawa 7 49 4 18 14-1t 9-t7 t5-20
t38 283 7-2t-4 0-28-0 3-21-t Dalrolt 21 29 .420 13 3-7 Losl 1 15-9 Notre Dame 5-t4 (Hoover 2-9, Taylor 1-t,
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 6-20 t7-17 
Milwaukee 20 30 .400 14 3-7 Lost t Justice 1-1, Jon Ross t-2, Williams 0-t).
Norrla Dlvlalon 13-t3 7-17 t4-t8 WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Fouled out-Mcllvalne, Jon Ross, Hoover.
W L T Pta 
GF GA Home Away DIY Mldweat Dlvlalon Rebounds-Marquette 38 (Curry tO), NoheChicago 32 20 8 

72 205 t66 t8-7-4 

14-t3-4 t5-9-2 Dame 33 (Williams 10). Assists-Marquette
Detroit 32 2t 7 7t W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni
257 202 t9-1t-2 

t3-t0-5 13-tt-3 San Antonio 33 t5 .688 8-2 tt (Kay 3), Notre Dame 8 (Jusllce, Hoover
Mlnneaola 29 22 8 Lost t 22-4 t1-11 20-tt
86 207 200 13-tt-6 

16-t1-2 t2-9-3 Utah 32 18 .640 3). Total fouls-MarqueHe t8, Notre Dame
Toronto 28 22 8 2 6-4 Losl t t8-7 t4-tt t9-tt
64 t95 176 t7-t 0-4 

tt-t2-4 t3-tt-5 Houston 29 2t .580 5 7-3 24. Technlcals-Mcllvalne, Hoover. A­
St. Loula 25 27 8 Won2 17-8 t2-t3 t6-t2
58 203 2t3 15-tt-5 10-t6-3 9-t2-5 tt,4t8.
Denver 20 30 .400

Tampa Bay 19 3fl t4 6-4 Lost 2 17-7 3-23 t2-2t
4 42 18t 2t9 t 0-16-2 9-20-2 7-t7-2 
Minnesota tt 35 .239

Smythe DIYialon 2t 4-6 Lost 2 5-t9 6-t6 6-23 Vancouver 3 2 t 7 Dallas 4 45 .082 29 t/2 t-9 Lost 7 4-23 0-22 t-29 STANDINGS
8 72 246 176 20-4-4 t2-t3-4 t7-6-2 
Pacific Dlvlalon
Calgary 3t 20 

8 70 233 t99 t6-t 0-4 t5-t0-4 t5-5-3Loa Angalea 26 25 8-2 Wont 20-t 17-9 24-7
Phoanlx 37 t 0 ..._787 PONTE VEDRA, Ra. (AP) -Leading money 
7 59 234 244 t5-t2-4 tt-t3-3 tt-t3-2Winnipeg 25 26 6 Won2 21-4 tt-t3 22-tO
Seattle 32 t7 .653 6 5-5 winners on tha PGA Tour through tha Bob
56 207 2t9 t6-t 0-2 9-t6-4 tt-9-3Edmonton 2t 30 6 t/2 Wont t9-8 1t-8 t9-tt
Portland 30 t6 .652 5-5 Hopa Classic, which ended Feb. 14:
8 50 t68 222 t3-tt-5 8-t9-3 9-t6-tSan Jose 7 49 LA Lakers 26 22 .542 tt t/2 6-4 Won3 14-tO t2-t2 17-t4 Trn Money
2 t6 t55 290 4-23-t 3-26-t 5-t9-t 
LA Clippers 2 5 25 .500 1. Tom Klle 3 S292,36t
t3 t/2 4-6 Lost 1 t5-t0 t0-t5 t5-17 t6 t/2 3-7 Won3 t2-tt 11-t8 t6-t2
Golden State 2 3 29 .442 2. BreH Ogle 4 $276,679
TRANSACTIONS 

Sacramento t 7 33 .340 2t t/2 t-9 Lost 3 t2-t3 5-20 tt-t8 · 3. Lee Janzen 5 $245,200 Tuesday's Games 4. Howard TwiHy 4 $22t,928BASEBALL BASKETBALL UTAH (96)New York tt7, Dallas 87 5. Davts Love Ill 4 $2t0,933
American League National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon Corbin 2-7 3-3 7, KMalone 8-t4 4-6 20,
New Jersey too, Milwaukee 88 6. Larry Mlze 4 $2t0,862
CALIFORNIA ANGELS--Signed Gena Nelson, CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Darrell Walker, Eaton 2-2 4-4 8, Stockton 2·8 0-0 5,
Detroit t24, Orlando 120, OT 7. Joey Sindelar 4 St96,943
pitcher, to a minor-league contract. guard, for the remainder of the season. J.Malone 3-t2 t-t 7, Brown 0-2 2-2 2,
Phoenix tt0, Boston 97 8. Jeff Maggart 4 $t89,600
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Acquired Kevin United Statea Baaketball League Humphries 6-tO 0-t t2, Krystkowlak 2-6
Houston t49, Philadelphia ttt 9. Billy Ray Brown 4 St49,069
Belcher, outfielder, from the Texas Rangers LONG ISLAND SURF-Named Laverne Tart 3-3 7, Benoit 5-8 2-2 t4, Howard 3-6 0-2 
SeaHie tt2, Washington t02 tO. Paul Azlnger 4 St34,350
lor Ever Magallanes, Infielder. assistant general manager for youth and 8, Crotty t-5 0-0 2, Austin 3-5 0·0 6. 
Golden State t33, San Antonio tt2 tt. Rick Fehr 3 $t3t,034KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agraed to terms community relations, and Allen RosenblaH Totals 37-85 t9-24 96.
Portland t 05, Atlanta 90 t2. Keith Clearwater 5 St28,063with Stave ShllftaH, Doug Harris, Ed Pierce director of finance. CHICAGO (tt4)Wednesday's Games t3. Andrew Magee 4 St08,000
and Billy Brewer, pitchers; Lance Jennings, FOOTBALL Pippen 7-t6 0-2 t4, Grant 4-9 t-t 9,
Orlando ttt, Denver 99 t4. Mark O'Meara 6 St03,059
catcher; Bob Hamelin and Phil HlaH, In­National Football League Perdue 2-4 3-4 7, Armstrong 6-tO 2-2 t5,
Miami ttt, Detroit t07 t5. Michael Allen 3 $t00,800
fielders, and Kevin Koslofskl, outfielder, on LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Named Jim Haslett Jordan t 0-26 5-7 27, Walker 3-4 2-2 8,
New York t24, CharloHe tt6 t6. J. Gallagher, Jr. 4 $99,626
one-year contracts. linebackers coach. King 5-7 2-2 t3, Tucker 4-5 0·0 tt,
Cleveland t24, Dallas 97 t7. ScoH Stmpson 4 $93,42t
SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Named Chris Foer­S.WIIIIams 2-3 3-4 7, C.WIIIIams 0·2 t-2
Indiana t25, Sacramento 99 t8. Chip Back 4 $87,438
Randy Johnson, pitcher, on a ona-year ster, assistant offensive line coach. t, Blanton t-t 0-0 2. Totals 44-86 t9-26 
Chicago tt4, Utah 96 t9. Bill Glasson 4 $86,840contract. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Dean tt4.
Thursday's Games 20. Gil Morgan 4 $83,060
National League Callgulre, offensive lineman. Utah t7 22 22 ~ 
Sacramento at Minnesota, 8 p.m.· 2t. Greg Twiggs 4 S8t,647
CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with HOCKEY Chicago 27 25 25 37-t14 
Utah at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m. 22. Steve Elkington 5 $80,059
Tim Balcher, pitcher, on a one-year con­National Hockey L..gue 3-Polnt goals-Utah 3-7 (Benoit 2·3,
Boston at Houston, 8:30 p.m. 23. John Flannery 5 $78,934
tract. LOS ANGELES KINGS-Assigned Jim Thomp­Stockton t-2, Crotty 0-2), Chicago 7-t4 
Philadelphia at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. 24. Billy Andrade 4 $76,359
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Agree to larms son, right wing, to Phoenix of International (Tucker 3-4, Jordan 2-6, Armstrong t-2,
Atlanta at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. 25. Trevor Dodds 3 $72,975
with Todd Pratt, catched, on a one-year Hockey League. King t-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Utah 
Seattle at Golden State, t0:30 p.m. 26. Payne Stewart 4 $68,280
contract. 4t (K.Malone 9), Chicago 6t (Grant 9).
Washington at LA Clippers, t 0:30 p.m. 27. Jay Haas 4 $67,855
Assists-Utah 23 (Stockton 6), Chicago 3t 
LA Lakers at Portland, t0:30 p.m. 28. Nolan Henke 5 $62,854
(Pippan 7). Total fouls-Utah 22, Chicago t6. 
29. Mike Springer 4 S6t,653 

Join together with seven of your lriends to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). CIA is aone day working session during which the south Bend community will join lorces with the students, laculty, and stall ol Notre Dame and St. Mary•s to renovate and repair the homes ol truL-t needy, elderly, and handicapped residents South Bend neighborhood. 
SIGN UP TODII
.,. 

Thursday, February 18, 1'993 The Observer page 15 
Owners discuss revenue sharing, but not commish ,-­
FINE LINE FEATURES, ZENrTH ~AMERICAN PLAYHOUSE THEATRICAL FILMS ,_jTRUE FICTION PICTURE "-:FILM FOUR INTERNATIONAL ~~-~~HAL HARTLEY SIMPLE MEN .. ROBERT BURKE WILLIAM SAGE KAREN SILLAS ELINA LOWENSOHN MARTIN DONOVAN JOHN MACKAY ,.::-,tMIKE SPILLER "=DAN OUEllmE .t:=JEROME BROWNSTEIN &BRUCE WEISS 
r · ~-~---.------: -.HAL HARTLEY &TED HOPE =:tHAL HARTLEY f FrNELtNE
.R _.,,.._.~~ I -·-·-C>ltniii~FWE IUUII-FEATURES 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Special Event 
South Bend Premiere! One Night Only! 
Morris Civic Auditorium Sunday, February 21 8:00PM 
Tickets: $5 at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Ticket Office. Call 631-8128 

Just-publislu!d Hal Hartley screen plays are on sale at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Hal will be happy to sign your copy at the reception following the screening. 
agency and salary arbitration. 
"It's early," Atlanta Braves president Stan Kasten said. "And having a concept is better than not having a concept." 
Donald Fehr, the head of the players' association, said he didn't know what to make of the vote. 
'It's certainly not hostile. It sort of is," Fehr said in New York. 
As far as a commi~>sioner, Bartholomay said he couldn't predict when his group will have a recommendation. 
"My job is to get it done right, not specifically within a given time frame," he said. 
The most forceful remarks came from Jones, who accused Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott of slurring blacks during a 1987 telephone conference call. Schott, suspended Feb. 3 for one year starting March 1, has denied Jones' allegations. 
"You all knew I was on the telephone and heard and ex­perienced Mrs. Schott's insults, yet none of you challenged her or apologized for her behavior," Jones told owners, according to her written statement. "How was I to interpret your silence then? And how am I and the American public to interpret your silence now?" 
Yanks' Howe agrees to talk to the media 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -Steve Howe, returning from his seventh druc:-related suspension, embracf' his latest opportunity by arriving at Fort Lauderdale Stadium on Wednesday, two days before the first scheduled workout for New York Yankees pitchers and catchers. 
"The baseball field has always been a sanctuary for me, re­gardless of what my problems were or weren't," Howe said. "When I'm on the baseball field, my concentration has al­ways been able to go directly on what I have to do." 
Howe, who had previously co­
operated with media other than 
print, ended that silence after 
mPeting with general manager 
Gene Michael and manager 
Burk Showalter. Howe agreed 
to grant interviews provided he 
not be asked about his drug­
related problems. 
"He's going to leave out the 
other part, and I don't think 
there's anything wrong with 
that personally," Michael said. 
Howe was suspended last June 8 by then commissioner Fa.} Vincent after he pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Missoula, Mont., to a misde­meanor charge of attempting to buy a gram of cocaine. 
Vincent's suspension, in­tended to be a lifetime ban, was overturned last Nov. 12 by arbi­trator George Nicolau after a grievance was filed by the union. Howe is being randomly tested three times a week as a condition of his return, Michael said. 
The left-handed reliever was 3-0 with six saves and a 2.45 ERA last year in 20 appear­ances covering 22 innings for the Yankees. 
PHOENIX (AP) -Baseball owners took a very tentative first step Wednesday toward increasing revenue sharing, but made no substantive progress on hiring a commissioner or restructuring his job. 
The actions taken and not taken during the two days of 
sessions just before spring training highlighted the drift in baseball's executive circles since commissioner Fay Vin­cent's forced resignation last Sept. 7. 
"Governance by committee is not a good way to govern in a normal situation," said Mil-

The Observer 
IEWPOINT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Rolando de Aguiar by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24,1993. Contact Rolando at 631-4541 for more information about either position. 
waukee Brewers president Bud Selig, chairman of the ruling executive council. "This is ab­berational. We are exploring all the areas of baseball's busi­ness." 
At Wednesday's meeting: 
-Former Oakland Athletics admininstrative assistant Sharon Jones admonished owners for their behavior to­ward minorities, a speech Selig called "sincere and blunt." But the council still hasn't re­sponded to the Rev. Jesse Jack­son's threat of selective boycotts unless more minorities are hired. 
-Owners unanimously ap­proved a resolution saying there is linkage between revenue sharing and player com­pensation. But they didn't ad­dress what the linkage was or how much money the larger clubs are willing to split with the smaller teams. 
-The restructuring commit­tee voted on its report -due last Nov. 1 -but decided to forward it first to the executive council before giving it to all owners. Richard Ravitch, man­agement's chief labor negotia­tor, wants the commissioner stripped of his labor authority, or the hiring of a commissioner contract. 
-The commissioner search committee, headed by Atlanta Braves chairman Bill Bartholomay, had its first in­person meeting and Bartholo­may said the group didn't feel any time pressure. "It's hard to search if you haven't ~ritten a job description," Selig said. 
-Selig appointed Toronto Blue Jays chairman Peter Wid­drington and baseball special assistant Dick Wagner to run the commissioner's offic"e after deputy commissioner Steve Greenberg leaves in April. Greenberg quit because owners refused to include him in decision-making. 
"I think when all the commit­tees are done you will see a reasoned change in the land­scape of major league base­ball," Selig said. 
Revenue sharing was the cen­tral issue of Wednesday's meeting. Ravitch told clubs they need to have a common financial interest in dealing with the Major League Baseball Players Association. The larger clubs have resisted efforts to increase the amount of local broadcasting money that is split. The smaller clubs, meanwhile, say they can't af­

r 
Scrappy Marquette simply wins 

By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
Back in the early '80s, the Chicago White Sox coined the phrase "Winning Ugly." This year, the Marquette Warriors are making that term their own, and it showed last night in their win over the Irish. 
They don't shoot that well, only 44 percent for last night's game, but their style of basket­ball doesn't depend on out­gunning the other team or making nifty behind-the-back passes. Instead, they just scratch out wins through de­fense and rebounding. 
Despite its poor shooting per­centage, Marquette forced the Irish to shoot even worse. Notre Dame managed to hit only 35 percent of their shots on the night, and Monty Williams was a meager 2 for 14. 
"They did a good job defen­sively on Monty," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "Every time he got the ball (near the basket) they had a lot of weight on him." 
Irish center Jon Boss agreed. 
"They were big, strong and heavy inside. They wore us down in the second half," the Irish center added. 
Early in the game, it didn't look like Marquette would be in that position. After just 11 min­utes, the Irish held a 22-11 ad­vantage. 
"I felt that our team came out like we were sleepwalking," Marquette coach Kevin O'Neill said. But then the Warriors 
SMC hoops rings Aurora's bell, 81-74 
By BETH REGAN Sports Writer 
The Belles rolled over Aurora University at home Wednesday night 81-74. Saint Mary's came out strong after a rough weekend away to improve their record to 14-6. 
"It was a nice change to come out on fire," said co-captain Kristen Crowley, "we're hard to beat when we come out strong." 
Driving down the lane, the Belles clearly dominated the first half. Aurora University was able to score only four points on the Belles after the first eight minutes of the game. 
The Belles began playing man to man defense in the first half. They switched to a zone but eventually returned to the man to man early in the game because Aurora was scoring too many three pointers. 
The score was within five points at the half with the Belles up 38-33. The Belles were consistently up by ten during the first ten minutes of the second half, but Aurora would not give up. Aurora was within one at 57-56 with 8:14 left in the game. 
"We lost a little intensity as the game wore on," said coach Marv Wood. "but they played as a team and pulled through in the end." 
Freshman Jennie Tauben­heim was the leading scorer for the Belles with 23 points and five assists. Aurora was double teaming her which caused her to pass the ball off a Jot in the second half. 
Kim Holmes was not far be­hind with 18 points. Crowley and Julie Snyder helped out with 10 points each. 
"This was a much needed win coming off the weekend," said Taubenheim. "we played smart and it came together for us." 

The Observer/ Jake Peters The Warriors size and depth underneath helped them wear down the Irish. Winning ugly has been a Marquette characteristic this year. 
started playing their style of bounding and playing defense," basketball. "(After 11 minutes) said O'Neill. "It's intensity, and we just started playing harder. we had it in the second half." Our intensity picked up a Jot." But Marquette also has some 
The Warriors also came out in scorers. Junior center Damon the second period and con-Key possesses a soft touch and trolled the boards, helping them a quick leap despite his 6'8", build and maintain a lead. 245-lb. frame. Key and 7'1" re­Marquette outrebounded the serve center Jim Mcllvanine Irish 21-15 in the second half. combined for 28 points, 18 from 
"There are no secrets to re-Key. 
Happy 21st Birthday John! 
Bave a rr·rne 
aood 1 

BloodY ld England in JollY 0 
CHEERS 
from the 

Home Front 
Thursday, February 18, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

lnterhatl floor hockey referees are needed. Anyone interested jihould call the RecSports office at 631·6100. 
$prlng break trips to Steamboat, CO are still available for all hiterested. For more information, call Chris Boone of the ND Ski 
at 273·2958. 
W will hold a meeting for all men interested in joining -~ee crew on February 18 at 7 p.m. in 199 Haggar Hall. 
aU lacrosse entries are due by February 24 at the office and there will be a captain's meeting February 25 .-:t 5 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
NDISMC Equestrian Club will have a meeting February 22 ..t 7:30p.m. in 222 Hesburgh Ubrary. If you have questions, call Megan at 634-2784. 
'o)lltc women's lacrosse club will have practiee on Sundaysfrom 8-9 p.m. at Loftus. 
··,. 

~~oss country ski rental is available in the Rockne Golf Shop. Check out times are 4:30-5:30 p.m. on Thursday, Friday, and $JJ.turday and 12~ 1 p.m. on Saturday. Check in times are 4:30­~:30 p.m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday and 12·1 on Saturday. 
The Notre Dame Pom Pon squad will be holding an informational meeting regarding tryouts for the upcoming season on February 24 at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame ~oom of LaFortune. I you have questions, please call Natalie Brohl at 284-4329 or Stacey Tischler at 634-4030. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. All are welcome. Please call E.D. at 634­1276 with questions. 
The Ultimate club will meet at 8 p.m. on February 21. Bring $10 membership dues. There will also be an outside practice if the weather permits at 1 p.m. at Stepan fields. 
The Observer 
SPORTS DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Associate Sports Editor Assistant Sports Editor Copy Editor 
Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent and a resume to George Dohrmann by 5 p.m., Monday, February 22, 1993. Contact George at 631-4543 for more information about any position. 


This Thursday -7:00pm 124 Hayes Healey 
•Info about Finance Forum 
•Meet the Candidates before next week's election 
•Please try to Attend! 


-------~---------------~~-----~-~---­
Thursday, February 18, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Irish women ramble into MCC contest with Loyola 
Observer Staff Report ppg, Notre Dame is on the verge of having four players scoring in double figures for 
The Notre Dame women's basketball the first time this season. Bowen is team looks to continue its winning ways averaging 12.7 ppg, Knapp 10.1 and as it travels to Loyola for a key Mid­guard Sherri Orlosky 11.5. western Collegiate Conference clash. Loyola presents an opportunity for 
The Irish (11-1 0, 7-4 MCC) are winners McGraw to draw one game closer to the of three of the last four, the most recent Notre Dame career wins mark. being a 92-80 win over Dayton on In her six seasons at Notre Dame the February 13. During the streak Notre Irish coach has a 112-61 record only Dame coach Muffet McGraw has seen the three wins short of Mary DiStanislao who emmergence of a number of players. from 1980-1987 accumulated 115 wins. 
Forward Kristen Knapp has scored in· McGraw also won her 200th game as a double figures in the last four games, collegiate coach with Saturday's win over adding inside strength to complete Dayton. leading scorer Letitia Bowen. Sophomore Audrey Gomez exploded for a 18 points In recognition of her success McGraw off the bench including four three­was named to the Olympic festival pointers. coaching staff. Amy Ruley from North 
Reserve forward Tootie Jones has also Dakota State serves as the teams head made her presence felt scoring 32 points coach, and Gary Barton from John A. in her last 46 minutes of action. The Logan college joins McGraw as an increase in production bolstered the team assistant. field goal perception to 52.2 over the Washington set a record in the win over weekend. La Salle, becoming the school career steal 
Notre Dame might not need the leader breaking Mary Gavin's record. increase in production to handle the Washington has accumulated 295 steals Ramblers. Twenty points from in her four year career. Washington led Notre Dame to a 76-50 After Loyola the Irish travel t Detroit point over Loyola at the Joyce ACC on Mercy, the second of three straight road 
, . The Observer/Jake Peters January 16. 
games which ends with Duquesne on 
Audrey Gom~z and th_e Notre Da~e women s basketball t_eam wtll take on the Loyola With Coquese Washington averaging 9.9 March 1, 

Ramblers tontght tn Chtcago. The lnsh have won three of thetr last four. 
She Could Have Been Anything She Wanted. Instead She Became Everything.She Became ANun. 
SJSTUS OF ST. BENEDICT
•

Find out what btinga nun rtaUy mtam. Call Simr Rou Mary RtXingat812-367-1411 
• -Welcome :Parents­~CIJS Lasagna, 
Homemade Spaghetti, 
Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
Open Monday-Saturday 
256-1444
Closed Sunday 

10% discount on dinners for 1213 Lincolnway West ND!SMC students with ID Mishawaka or coupon 
just East of 1 00 Center 

Walsh takes interhall hoops title with overtime win over Off-Campus 
By JEFF ENES Sports Writer 
Walsh beat Off-Campus 30-27 in overtime Tuesday night to win the women's interhall A­league championship. 
With a minute left in the fourth quarter, a baseline shot by Off-Campus tied the game at 
26. Walsh was unable to score in the final seconds to force the overtime. 
In overtime, Off-Campus scored first with a free throw. Then a shot in the lane gave Walsh the lead and two free throws by Jenny Rielly put the game away. 
The win gives Walsh a grati­fying interhall championship, 
Take Time Out And Have Fun ! ! 

THE No-mE DAME 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Wednesdau, Februaru 24th 
7:00p.m. 
The Notre Dame Room in LaFortune Ar\U Questior\s? Dor1't Hesitate to Call: Natalie Brohl 204-4329 Staceu Tischler 634-4030 
We ho e to see ou there! 
having lost this year's interhall football championship and last year's soccer championship. The past losses seemed to play a part in Walsh's attitude. 
"Going into overtime, it was now or never" says Walsh's captain Laura Lavigne. "Walsh has lost in the finals before so it was great to win this one." 
The game started out all Off­Campus. Great outside shoot­ing by Teresa Forest and Mari­anne Haggerty and solid inside play by Jen Slozar gave Off­Campus an early lead. But Michelle Drury played well enough to keep Walsh within six points at halftime. 
In the second half it was a combination of balanced scor­ing and team defense that gave Walsh the lead. Solid play by Lavigne as well as Terry Castellucci and Becky Hellmann helped build the lead to six late in the fourth quarter. But it was a team effort more than any individual that helped Walsh down the stretch. 
Walsh had a tough road to the finals, beating Siegfried and previously undefeated Pas­querilla East. 
"We kept our composure in the second half and made our free throws down the stretch," said coaches Steve Campbell and Mike Quinn. "We've had tough games in the past , our experience showed at the end." 
-. 
By TEDS PETERSON Sports Writer 
Sorin exploded for six goals in 
the second half of a do-or-die 
battle with Fisher last Sunday, 
vaulting them to a 7-1 triumph. 
The League 2 matehup was, in 
effect, a preliminary playoff 
game, with only the winner 
qualifying for a playoff berth. 
The score was tied 1-1 at the 
half, but captain Doug Mont­
gomery, who had a hat trick, 
seored early in the second half 
to put Sorin (3-1-1) on top for 
good. Sorin then began to ex­
ploit Fisher's (2-2-1) lack of 
depth, producing a final score 
that wasn't indicative of the 
game's competitiveness. Jay 
Burke, playing despite a broken 
thumb, contributed two goals 
for Sorin. 
Alumni (4-0-1). the unde­feated champion of League 2, finished their regular season with a strong 9-1 victory over Cavanaugh last week. With only seven skaters for the game, Alumni's strategy was to keep their stamina by playing back and only rushing the puck up the ice in spurts. It worked. 
Captain Jim KusfJr led Alumni with four goals, John Foley seored three, and Hyan Lake and Mark "Quaalude" McGrath eaeh eontributed one. Captain Ed Clark scored the lone Ca­vanaugh goal. 
Zahm (3-1-1) qualified for the final League 2_ playoff berth with a 7-1 win over St. Ed's last Sunday. This marks Zahm's first interhall hockey playoff appearance in nearly ten years. Zahm led from start to finish in what eaptain Paul Kell called "our best game as a team." 
In League 1, Grace (6-0) eompleted an undefeated regu­lar season with a 7-1 victory over Flanner (2-4) on Monday. Captain Karl Nass deseribed the performance as Grace's best game as a team, with seve-n different players scoring the seven goals. 
Looking to the playoffs. Nass said, "The key for us is to play one game at a time. Thinking about the playoffs hurt us ear­liflr against Keenan (who they narrowly defeated. 3-2]." Graee's growing fan support will also be a factor, giving them a "seventh-man" on the 
icn. 
Stanford also warmed up for 


the playoffs by defeating Off­final playoff spot despite losing Campus 3-1 last week. With 9-1 to Dillon (2-4) on Tuesday the score tied at one, freshman night. Morrissey won their last Ricky Schneider scored to give two games, squeaking past Off­Stanford (5-1) the lead for good. Campus in a 10-9 shootout on 
Holding Off-Campus to just Tuesday and beating Dillon 5-4. one goal is a definite bright spot Playoffs begin next Monday for Stanford, as captain Mike with matchups of Keenan ver­Johnson wants to hold down sus Sorin and Zahm against their opponents' scoring in the Stanford. Grace and Alumni, playoffs. "We need to focus on the two first-place teams, get playing a little more defensively byes. Tuesday, the Keenan­than in the past," he explained. Sarin winner plays Grace, and 
In other League 1 action, the Zahm-Stanford victor faces Keenan (3-3) qualified for the off against Alumni. 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Ann 
Love, Mother and Dad 

GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen your understand­Ing of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
RETREAT 

DATES: March 26-28 AND April 2-4 
FORMS 

AVAILABLE: February 15-19 
SIGN UP 

DEADLINE: February 19 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Olllce 103 Hesburgh Library 631·7800 

COST: $25.00 


Thursday, February 18, 1993 
Illness could hurt Irish fencers on East· Coast 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams travel to Duke University in Durham, 
N.C. this weekend to face Air Force, Navy, Duke, and North Carolina. The men will also fence William and Mary. 
In their second trip to the East Coast this season, the teams hope to fence well against tough competition. 
For the men to improve upon their 18-1 record, they may have to overcome some illness. Junior epeeist Grzegorz Woz­niak and sophomore foilist Stan Brunner are battling illnesses, but should to ready to go by Saturday. 
"If we can bring all the fencers we have in the infir­mary, we'll be alright," joked men's head coach Mike DeCi­cco. 
Though there was no inter­collegiate action for the Irish last weekend, several of the younger fencers traveled to Colorado Springs, Colorado to 
participate  in  the  Junior  
Olympics.  
In  particular.  freshman  

Claudette de Bruin took fifth place in the epee event and ninth place in the foil event in Colorado. Fellow freshman Danielle Girardi captured fourth in the epee, and fresh­man Mindi Kalogera took fif­teenth in the foil. A strong per­formance by the younger women will be needed this weekend to improve on their 13-3 n~cord. 
For the men, sophomores Conor Power, Jordan Maggio, and Stan Brunner placed 11th, 25th, and 27th respectively in the foil event. 


7 Day Deliv.~ry--:­
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square  ( 219) 2 7 7 ..  1291OtO.~'='  
'> 1400 31 North  
South Bend, IN 46637 .  ,.,~  o.~~  

Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Nor good for Valentine's Day 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
TONIGHT 
Listen to Fighting 

YftX"t ~~ 
Irish Women's ' I ' t I ­
•
!:\" '\l

asketball vs I
'(\ t'/.1

Loyola of Chicago on ,~~<>,~ 
WHME-HlllVest 103.1 FM 
8:00PM 

StartlineM 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES • FREE FIRST ORDER OF When you write 8 checks or less CHECKS Standard design 

•NO 
MINIMUM BALANCE •rAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES 

• 
FREE INSfANT CASH ATMACCESS · 



Come to expect the best. 

NORWEST BANKS 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. 
© 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 


Today 
Thursday, February 18, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I llSED 1V BE fiN liNPoPVt.ill2 TH£ ~8N CARNAfbR IYlOOfL 'f.-liXfJ ()1/IP.KIE'!< IN A 61\(K WAffR IS I\EAD'{ 1TIM£ Th BRINh CoU.~IrrE S~IP. I w~5 THE' <i)VS BM K I 8V1T OF f.'/f:R'{ JOKE; A RE.AL LOSE.R NOW J'Vt 
FOUND t:.n:;;RNAl f'E.IlCf I<ND 
£NLI611ENM€Nf. 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
• 
"Uh-oh . ... Looks like the usual airplane food." 
0• 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Teachers' 46 TV's "Life With helpers Father" star 

1 Romeo preceder 30 Easy putt 49 Certificate of 5 New England 31 Rifle parts ownership 
soda fountains 32 Top of the clock 51 Face boldly 9 Spill the beans 
33 Withdrawal of 52 First son 13 Temperate 
trps. 53 Waste maker 14 Lance or 34 Flings 54 Serfhalberd 

35 Actress Cannon 55 Covers

15 Thin, as air 16 Middle East 36 Tennis term 56 Bidders' figs. 
V.I.P. 37 Ind. state flower 57 Straw beehive 17 Violent disorder 
38 --differ 19 Unit having two (object) or more DOWN
39 Silent butlers' battalions targets

21 Hawks' 1 Indian or Asian 41 Another 4 Down 
starter 22 What quibblers 2 Mortar 
opposites 
42 Disencumbers split 43 Bound by oath ingredient 23 Alaskan group 44David's 3 Concorde's 24 Hepplewhite commander in course product chief 
4 Mediterranean sea arm 5 Avoids ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
&Segment 7 Langley Field, Va., is one 8 Groups at 23 The "Hello!" 35 Abases; vitiates 43 ReligiousGroton woman 
37 Crystal form groups 9 Special officer's 24 Stone slab 44 Kyrgyz range 
38 "A ginooine commission 
25 Overhangs statesman 45 Motel employee 1oAbbe or Lois 
26 Eves' opposites should-his 46 For fear that 11 Texas guard": J. R . 
27 Stewardess's 47 Bird of prey leaguers' visual aid Lowell 48 Ooz& trajectories 28 Lasso 40 Rolling stock 49 Cato's 250 
12 Hum bug 41 Left dreamland so Owns
29 Greek con man 14Cordwood atTroy measure 
31 Some have 

18 Burt's wife's bells Get answers to any three clues namesakes 34Annoying by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 20 Demeanor problem 5656(75¢each mlnute).No. 0107 




... 
•I 

Friday, Feb. 19 & Saturday, Feb. 20 

Sports 
page 20 Thursday, February 18, 1993 
BRIAN KUBICKI 
Playing Around 

Colleges should not make hasty coaching changes 
What does it take to keep a job these days? 
Lou Campanelli, former head basketball coach for the University of California. is no longer sure. The coach of seven seasons was fired unex­

• pectedly on February 8 . The firing could not be because he was unsuccessful. since he had compiled a 123-108 record and earned postseason berths in four sAasons. This season looked promising for Campam~lli. as well. Behind freshman standout, Jason Kidd, the Bears were 1 0-7 before the tiring. Nor was the eoach tired due to a lack of emphasis. on academics. Of the coach's 2 3 senior student-athletes. 18 have graduated and two others are finishing up their degrees, according to a statement of protest by the National Assoeiation of Basketball Coaches. That statement also pointed out that Campanelli has had no reported NCAA violations. Even the director of athletics at Cal. Bob Bockrath, was pleased with his coach's work. After the Bears beat UCLA on January 24, Bockrath sent Campanelli a message commending him for the good work he was doing. None of the conventional reasons work for this firing. According to school officials. Campanelli was fired because of abusive behavior toward athletes following recent games. Bockrath fired the coach hours after meeting with six players who explained their complaints about Campanelli. Apparently, Campanelli was not working for Cal or Bockrath, after all. At Cal, it is the players who determine whether or not their coach should continue coaching. Even Bockrath bowed to their authority. lie had signed Campanelli to a contract that would have him coaching the team through 1996 only eighteen months earlier. lie sacrificed that at the players' request. Thn problem with this situation is not that the playnrs sought to express displeasure with their coach. It is that Cal officials did not bother to remedy
the problem by discussing it with Campanelli. 
A succinct warning from his employers would not have gone unnoticPd by Campanelli. If the complaints continued, then the time for Cal to take action would be after the 
season. At the professional level, firing
coaches during a season is acceptable sincfl the team is a businHss and such a move would be a business decision. (. II t t e ect d t b
. o ege eams an~ no .xp . : e o e the main source of income for their institutions. Such a move by Cal implies otherwise. 
Campan1~lli was not a poor represPntativP for Cal. Perhaps he

• 
made some mistakes during eneounters with his players, but Campanelli deserved better treatment 
from the University of California. l-Ie did not deserve the hasty judgement and classless firing he received. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
~~~~----~--------------~
•SMC hoops wins 
see page16 
•Fencers go East 
see page 18 
• Irish women's hoops on the road see page17 

Warriors rally past Irish, 69-61 
By JIM VOGL "Eford shows fn~sh man itis at Assistant Sports Editor times," said O'Neill. "But when he -takes good shots, he makes shots." 
John MacLeod's nightmares The Warriors worked the ball continue, as his team's 35 percent inside-out between 7'1" reserve shooting doomed an otherwise solid Jim Mcilvaine, starting center effort in a 69-61 loss to Marquette at Damon Key and forward Honey the Joyce ACC last night. Eford. 
Monty Williams and Ryan Hoover, "They were big inside and had an outside game to back it up." MacLeod said. Key banged in 1 H 
• see Snappy Warriors/page 16 points, while foul trouble limited Mcilvaine to 15 minutes and ten points. Forward Hon Curry added 
who hoard 46 percent of Irish points 11 and grabbed 10 rebounds. on the season, combined for a MacLeod. who was limited to just horrendous 5-for-28 performance from eight scholarship players last night, the floor. feels his players have been 
The two finished with 21 points victimized by rough play and loose collectively, while Jon Ross and officiating. "It's been physical all Lamarr Justice stepped up with 17 and year 'round," said MacLeod. who 14, respectively. The hobbled bench brought to mind the play that has chipped in just six points. gave Jason Williams a bruised 
"Monty put up some quick shots and heart. "I have seen our players laid missed a couple in close," Irish coach out going down the lane and I don't John MacLeod said of his star forward. think I've seen more than one "They put a lot of bodies ·on him and intentional foul." forced him around with a lot of weight. He's our focal point and he's going to Williams, who got hacked going 
get a lot of attention. to the basket against Dayton, 
"But Monty's got to learn to play developed sAw~re pains later in the through it when he's not hitting his week that has kept him out out two shot. When he's not scoring, he has to games. "He's been in and out of the find other ways to help the team... hospital and tlw infirmary," distribute the ball to the open man, hit reported MacLeod. the offensive boards," said MacLeod of Williams, academically a senior but in Sophomore Malik Bussell, only his second year of collegiate suffering an ankle sprain against action. "But he will learn these Kentucky, was limited to just live things." gimpy minutes and no points. "He 
didn't practice Sunday, Monday or 
Notre Dame sizzled to an 11-0 lead Tuesday and it didn't look to me to start 6ut the game, thanks to four when forward Roney Eford hit a three­like he was moving too well out Warrior turnovers. At the 17:08 mark, pointer and put them ahead 35-34, to there tonight," noted MacLeod. 
Lamarr Justice stole the ball from stay. "Jiopefully, he'll be ready by Friday." Marquette guard Jeff Logterman, burned "We worked for the open shot and shot down the court for a layup, got hacked the ball much better tonight," said a O'Neill offered sympathies to his 
by Logterman and converted the free relieved Eford. The 6'7" freshman, counterpart. "Notre Dame's got a good 
throw. coming off a one-for-1 0 nightmare in an team saddlPd with an absolutely killer ugly loss to UAB, connected on four-of­schedule. I like John. It's a difficult thing But the Warriors crept back, erasing a seven from three-point range and for someone to go through something like 
32-26 halftime deficit in just two minutes finished with a game high 19. this." 
Tough competition awaits men's tennis at Indoors 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer Texas is lead by the 23rd-ranked singles player in the nation, Anders 
The sixth-ranked Irish men's tennis Ericksson of Sweden, and Ericksson squad travels to Louisville, Kent. this teams with Trey Phillips to form the weekend to test their talent on the top-ranked doubles team in the national scene in the National Team country. Indoors, which features many of To advance at the Nationals the nation's top programs. Irish will have to get more 
"Going in, we knew our schedule production from their doubles teams, was arguably the toughest in the which faltered in last week's match nation," noted Irish coach Bob 
against San Diego, and have not Bayliss, "And now is when it heats been as strong as desired since the injury of senior Andy Zurcher forced
up." The Irish know they will be a shake-up in the lineup . challenged at every match, as they "Andy suffered his injury over faee perennial powerhouse Texas in Christmas Break," said Bayliss. "So 
the opening round, with the after we came back we had just possibility of matching up with three or four days to put something number-one USC in the second together."match. 
What the Irish have come up with In last season's improbable drive 
is seniors Will Forsyth and Chuck 
towards the national finals, the Irish 
Coleman challenging Texas' top pulled off one of the biggest upsets in twosome at one-doubles, Mark NCAA history, shocking the top-Schmidt and Chris Wojtalik at two and Ron Hosas and freshman Jason
ranked Trojans in the semis and 
becoming the first cold-weather Pun have been surprising at three, team to advance to the NCAA finals compiling a 3-1 record. since the current format's inception. Despite this seemingly solid lineup, 
But this year is a di!Terent story, as the Irish brain trust is not above the Irish will have to concentrate shifting around the lineup a bit to their efforts just to down the increase production. Longhorns and advance to the USC "We might think about shaking match. things up a bit," stated Bayliss, 
"We know we will face three top-whose shrewd moves helped him to 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
15 teams in our first three matches," 
National Coach -of-the-Year honors Will Forsyth will lead the men's tennis team at the said Bayliss. last season. National Team Indoors in Louisville this weekend. 






