
Thursday, September 30, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 24 TIIF IN!)f-PI NlJl NT NLVVSP/\l)LR q IZVINl~ NOliZE Dt\Ml AND SAIN r MARY'S 
Dorm initiation traditions banned by Student Affairs 
By DAVID KINNEY 
• see POLICY, page 4 

Editor-in-Chief 
or participate in future initia­tion rites could face suspensionThe Office of Student Affairs or dismissal.has put an end to several long­"There is no reason that ini­standing University traditions tiations should happen at theby banning initiation-related University of Notre Dame," said rites conducted by dorms and 

Father Joseph Carey, Dillon

student groups. 
Hall rector. "They are com­

The directive says the initia­pletely out of line." tions "jeopardize the self-es­Carey admitted that Dillon'steem and safety of students, ceremony this year was unac­affect the University as a whole ceptable. "At times the groupand are, therefore, strictly pro­mentality takes over and peo­hibited." ple get out of control." The regulation comes after The hall's Scavenger Hunt re­several women reported that quired freshman residents to
freshmen from Dillon Hall 
scour women's dorms for per­kissed them while dorm resi­

sonal items ranging from

dents chanted "slut" during the shampoo to Vaseline to bras,
hall's traditional Scavenger 
according to residents. SomeHunt on Sept. 1. were required to return with aStudent Affairs denied that woman from a specific dorm. the new regulation is a direct When the initiates returned

result of the Dillon event. 
to the front of Dillon, upper­

"That's absolutely not the 
class residents gathered, dous­case," said William Kirk, assis­in'g the freshmen with the con­

tant vice president for resi­
tents of the loot. dence life. "The University 

Upperclassmen then de­

doesn't take action as a result manded that some freshmen toof isolated incidents." run to women on the quad and Kirk said that his office has 
kiss them. The mob of men

been investigating the activities then chanted "slut, slut, slut,"
for several years, and decided according to a woman in Lyons this year was an appropriate 
time to act. · Hall who requested anonymity. At least three women from
The directive bans "events Lyons and Badin Halls toldthat appear to demean, deride dorm rectors about the inci­or humiliate new members or 
dents, and another notified

that place the personal safety Notre Dame security. 
of students in jeopardy." Kirk "I understand that it was allsaid this includes annual events supposed to be in fun, but they 
such as Dillon's Scavenger 
took it too far," said the Lyons

Hunt and St. Edward's and 
freshman.

Zahm Hall's annual freshman 
rites. Dillon president Jeff Goddard acknowledged that it was a
"These kind of activities are combination of "bad timing,not appropriate at Notre Dame bad luck, a mob scene. It kindif they are not welcoming," of got out of hand." 
Kirk said. "The only kind of ac­Morrissey's Father Joe Rosstivity that we feel comfortable is among the supporters of the about allowing is one that wel­new policy.
comes and embraces a member into a community." Students who plan, sponsor see INITIATION I page 4 
Murphy tells hardships, sacrifices of truck drivers 
By ZOE MARIN  However, drivers have the  
News Writer  stress of delivering deadlines in  
addition to truck payments and  
Confronting sacrifices and  finances to worry about, he  
stereotypes are among the  added.  
many challenges faced by truck  
drivers, according to former  "A great deal of truck drivers  
driver Gary Murphy, who spoke  are on drugs to ke-ep their  
at yesterday's Fireside Chat,  truck operating. For some, it's  
"On the Road Again," part of  not a choice, it's something  
the Multicultural Fall Festival this week.  they have to do," Murphy stat­ed.  
Murphy addressed issues  In Murphy's union, they have  
concerning the general safety  instituted random drug testing  
of a truck-driver on the road in  to keep their drivers safe, and  
relation to other drivers.  they recently discharged two  
drivers for testing positive, said  
He stressed that truckers are.  Murphy.  
an asset on the road. They find  
out about worsening weather  Murphy also spoke about var­ 
conditions before the highway  ious personal drawbacks of  
departments release the in­ truck driving.  
formation and help people  Though truck drivers get to  
stranded on the interstate  travel all over the United  
through the use of their C.B.s, he said.  States, he said, he spent most of his time sightseeing from the  
The fact that the Department  driver's seat, without time to  
of Transportation has set max­ stop.  
imum driving, working, and  
sleeping hours for truck-drivers  He added that sometimes he  
reassures automobile drivers of  would spend as many as three  
their safety on the road, as well.  or four months on the road,  
see MURPHY I page 6  


By MICHAEL WORKMAN 
News Writer 
Eastern Europe's transition from state controlled economies to the free market system can be viewed opti­mistically, according to Richard Rose, the director of the Center of Public Policy at the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow, Scotland, in yester­day's lecture at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. · 
"I am optimistic about Europe because people are free to govern themselves and choose what they want. It is extremely difficult to reinstate the past," Rose said. "The mar­ket integration of society was not an accident." 
Rose presented his recent fmdings from a number of na­tional surveys he has been con­ducting since 1991. The coun­tries he observed ranged from the Czech Republic and West Germany to Russia and the Ukraine. These surveys exam­ined the attitudes people have about the drastic changes Europe has seen during the past five years. 
One of the questions Rose asked of those he surveyed was whether or not they were cur­rently receiving enough money from their regular job to buy what they really need. 
Explaining his fmdings, Rose said, "Of course enough in In­dia is different than the amount you would find to be enough in California. But only one-third said they got enough money while the other two thirds said that they did not." 
Rose's surveys also revealed that in order to make up for the lack of money, a high percentage of Europeans took part in non-official economies, meaning that they engaged in secondary or "social" economies. 
These economies involved practices such as the house­hold production of food, ex­changes between friends, and queuing for more than an hour a day. 
The data also showed that as 
see ROSE I page 4 

Students support dorm rites 
By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
Although Student Affairs 

deems initiation activities con­
trary to the university's efforts 
to welcome freshmen, some 
students think the annual cer­
emonies make new students 
feel more comfortable. , "It's all in good fun. The ulti­
mate goal is to make them feel 
a part of the dorm," said 
Kevin Jandora, Zahm vice­
president. 
Zahm freshman traditionally 

dress up in togas, get "bap­
tized" in the reflecting pool, 
and go through a mud pit 
before attending the first pep 
rally. The initiation, a 24-year 
tradition, is intended to foster 
dorm unity and togetherness, 
Jandora said. 
"It was a pretty important 

part of the freshman experi­
ence here," said Zahm fresh­
man Brendan McGuire. By 
banning any initiation activi­
ties, the administration may 
harm new residents' integra­
tion into the dorm. 
Freshman Paul Meier agrees. 

"Everyone was so pumped up 
and I think it's too bad that 
Zahm can't do it anymore," 
said Meier. 
"A really special part of 

Zahm and, in turn, Notre 
Dame, is now missing," said 
Jandora. "But all of Zahm will 
support any decision made by 
see REACTION I page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 30, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Bad night's 
sleep? Try gun 
control 
The sound of gunrrre has finally woken us up. 
After decades of debate over the right to bear arms, Congress is seriously consdering legislation against firearms. And despite the best efforts of the National Rifle 
. Association mainstream Rolando de Aguiar America is 'beginning to Viewpoint Editor push for gun control. 
Of course, the screams of the thousands of children who die every year from gunshot wounds could not roust us from our NRA-induced slumber. 
The deaths of these children, mostly African­American, in our inner cities could not move us to take action against handguns. Rather, a rash of shootings in Florida, the gunning down o almost a dozen white European tourists, has "olted us out of sleep. 
Most of the recent discussion about gun con­trol has surrounded the so-called Brady Bill. But what the United States needs is much larger than this legislation, which would mandate a w.aiting period for handguns. Though the Brady Bill would prevent many impulsive murders, it would do little to slow the deafening rip o death which rrrearms have rent in this country over the last quarter-century. 
Rather, America needs a law which would not only stem the sale of guns, particularly hand­guns, but encourage the destruction of existing firearms. Today, there are more guns in civilian America than there are people. And more unashamed racists, unmedicated psychotics, hot tempers and lax consciences than the NRA would like to admit. 
The NRA has remained for years a brutal defender of the right to bear arms, well-armed with Constitutional might in its tower of cold steel and hot lead. 
The organization's Constitutional trump has been the Second Amendment, which reads, "A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed." 
Though a syntactic nightmare, the amend­ment states that the right to bear arms is part of a larger goal: to maintain a militia. Some Constitutional scholars, backed ideologically and financially by the NRA, continue to argue that the second amendment is one of the Constitution's broader brushstrokes, but the reality is clear: that a militia in the United States is an idea of the 18th century, not of the 20th (much less the 21st). 
The NRA, a sinister eye peering through the scope, continues to watch millions of Americans being killed by firearms. No ghetto gunfire is disturbing their gun clubs and hunting trips. But it is time for the organization's members to admit guilt. at least to themselves and their loved ones: that the NRA is run primarily by men whose senses of self-esteem are so flaccid that they must carry a heavy shaft of hard metal, hung from the belt, in order to feel strong. 
But even if the NRA is again weak, and remains fixed in its unconscionable stance against gun control (of course, there's no rea­son to think it will not), then the rest of America must push to silence the gunfire. 
Then we can roll over, and go back to sleep. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Emily Hage Macy Hueckel Laura Ferguson 
Production Sports Susan Marx Beth Regan Jackie Moser 
Viewpoint Graphics Allison Ebel Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and V2Cltion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Dead found in explosion debris 
LAS TEJERIAS, Venezuela 
Rescue workers had a grisly job, picking through incin­erated vehicles to determine the number of victims of a fiery explosion that almost obliterated the bodies of the dead. 
"We have 36 skulls," Capt. Egui Martinez, rrre depart­ment commander for the region, said late Tuesday. 
Based on the number of skulls found -about the only trace left of the victims who perished during rush hour Tuesday when a natural gas pipeline exploded under a highway -Martinez put the death toll at 36. 
The state news agency Venpres initially reported 50 dead, but lowered the toll to 37 Tuesday night. The was no way to immediately reconcile the figures given by Venpress and Martinez. 
Another 40 people were injured when the pipeline exploded shortly before 8 a.m. under the Central Regional Highway in this town 30 miles southwest of the capital. 
The state gas company Corpoven said a telephone com­pany contractor laying fiber optic cable, working without Corpoven's permission, ruptured its pipeline. 
The president of the state-controlled telephone compa­ny, Bruce Haddad. didn't acknowledge the company's responsibility for the explosion. But Haddad, in an inter­view with Radio Caracas Television, offered to pay com­pensation to victims and their families and to foot the bill for damage to cars. 
The telephone company said it was investigating the cause of the blast. Most of the dead were on a bus that was passing by the excavation crew. 
"It was like a stream of fire that leapt to the sky," Alberto Jose Galeno, a passenger in a truck on the other side of the highway, said from his hospital bed. 
Witnesses said the flames rose 130 feet into the sky. 
Hours after the explosion, rrrefighters hosed down the asphalt to cool it, scattering rings, shoes, handkerchiefs and other belongings of the victims. 
Clear Beer Clearly Not a Hit 
RICHMOND, Va. Now you see through it, now you don't: Clear beer is history. 
Miller Brewing Co. has halted a three-city market test of its see-through brew, saying sales dropped as the nov­elty waned. 
"We're not manufacturing it any longer for the near term," Eric Kraus, a spokesman for the Milwaukee-based brewer, said Tuesday. "We had a tremendous initial trial, but repeat business was not necessarily as good." 
The beer that has been made will be sold, but no more will be brewed, Kraus said. It was sold in bottles as well as on tap in bars. 
Clear beer was part of a "clean" products fad that includes clear deodorant and Pepsi. In April, Miller began test-marketing the industry's first clear beer in Richmond, Minneapolis and Austin, Texas. 
Miller Clear was billed as a "regular" beer without the heaviness. Its 122 calories per bottle was midway between regular and light beers. A special filtration process removed the color and 40 percent of the carbo­hydrates, but left in all the alcohol. 
Miller was a leader in winning popularity for light beers in the 1970s, making its Lite brand a hit after other low-calorie beers foundered. Light beer now accounts for about a third of all U.S. beer sales. 
Blockbuster sides with Viacom in fight for Paramount 
Profile of Blockbuster Entertainment Corp., which agreed Wednesday to invest $600 million in cable network company 
-

Viacom Inc., one of two bidders for Paramount Communications Inc. 
Buslnesaes ~::;-) Headquarters ~ 
• Incorporated 1982~ Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ~ 
World's largest home video retailer, with 15 percent market 
Chairman.

share; 3,258 video rental stores in nine countries and 48 states. H. Wayne Huizenga, 55, also 
• Amajor music retailer, owner of Florida Martins baseball through 252 Sound Warehouse team and 15 percent of Miami and Music Plus stores in 40 Dolphins football team. 
U.S. metro areas and six countries. 1992 Revenue ·.u 
• Owns 54 percent of Spelling $1.20 billion, up 38 percent
Entertainment Group, major producer of TV programs and 
1992 Profits ~.!f 

35 percent Republic Pictures Corp., movie producer. $142.03 million, up 52 percent 
Source: Blockbuster Entertainment AP 
Forest fire threatens homes 
SANTA YNEZ, Calif. 

A wildrrre raging out of control in Los Padres National Forest since Saturday had charred 18,700 acres by Tuesday and was beginning to threaten dozens of homes. 
The fire, in Santa Barbara County, about 100 miles northwest of Los Angeles, threatened cabins, homes, ranches and livestock in an area near the Santa Ynez Valley. Residents were told to be ready to leave, said U.S. Forest Service spokesman Jerry Little. 
About 1,500 firefighters fought the blaze in rugged ter­rain with temperatures nearing 100 degrees and humidi­ty at about 8 percent. There was no containment esti­mate for the fire, which began Saturday and was believed caused by a deer hunter's cigarette. 
In Riverside, San Bernardino and San Diego counties, firefighters fought to control a handful of smaller blazes. 
The largest, which had blackened 600 acres near the San Diego County town of Poway, was 80 percent con­tained Tuesday, and no structures were damaged. 
Administration ready to recycle 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration, despite fierce lobbying by the paper industry, is leaning toward expanding govern­ment purchases of recycled paper as advocated by envi­ronmentalists, an administration official said Tuesday. 
Officials working on the project came to "substantial agreement" at a meeting Tuesday that the government should purchase a minimum of 20 percent recycled paper by the end of 1994, an administration official said. In sev­eral years, the purchasing requirement would go to 30 percent. 
In addition, they agreed that recycled paper will be defined as "post-consumer" material that has been used by the public, excluding paper mill scraps now included in the definition, according to this official, who declined to be identified by name. 
The tentative decisions by the working group still need to be approved by President Clinton, but he promised on Earth Day that he would sign an executive order promot­ing more government purchase of recycled material. 
In recent weeks, a vigorous lobbying campaign has been waged by all sides, including state and local officials who joined environmental groups pushing for a higher recycled paper goal. 
INDIANA Weather 

jlndianapoli3 64° I 
• 
~ ~ 

OHIO 
~ 
.......... 

Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloucly 
01993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather«> forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 30. 70s 
FRONTS: 
.............,. .............. ....-AT­


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Acctl·Wealher. Inc. 
HL  a E;SJ  1n1 0 ~ §ll (} ~ u  
HIGH LOW  SHOWERS RAIN  T·STORAIS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
v;. A.uocaallld P1N8  
City  H L  Dallas 91 57 New York 66 52  
AUanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Columbus  79 55 65 47 65 51 54 41 61 38  Denver 77 41 Paris 54 45 London 61 50 Philadelphia 69 53 Los Angeles 89 66 St. Louis 62 48 Miami 84 75 San Francisco 71 55 Minneapolis 53 36 Saanle 81 50 New Orleans 86 56  


Thursday, September 30, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS 
Center offers 'international dimension' 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
The Nanovic Center for European Studies is now open and officially recognized &s a place where students can go to read about and discuss European topics, according to Robert Wegs, Notre Dame pro­fessor of history. 
"There is a lack of interna­tional dimension on this cam­pus," said Wegs, who led a meeting concerning the future of the center on Wednesday. 
Presently, the Nanovic Center has an office in the li­brary basement as its tempo­rary location, but Wegs hopes that a permanent office will be established by this time next year. 
Although he is not yet sure where it will be located on campus, Wegs is confident that the facility will be a in a conve­nient and renovated office. 
"It will be a place where stu­dents and faculty have room to browse through the records on file and talk about contempo­rary Europe." 
Wegs opened the floor to debate on the center's logo and how to go about designing an 

Class of '94 
uitcase arty 
Tickets are on salle now at the LaFortune Info Desk for $10. 
(ticket price indudes beverages, food, and a chance to win a trip to the Stanford game with tickets, hotel, air:fare.} 
informative brochure. 
"We should design the brochure to be distributed throughout the Midwest and to the major schools on the east and west coasts," said Wegs. 
This year the center will be sponsoring four or five lectures with an emphasis on national­ism as well as two conferences, one concerning the question of the decline of the British Empire. 
"But we would really like to develop some programs to at­tract more undergraduates," explained Wegs. 
Undergraduates often find lectures and conferences to be very formal, according to Wegs. "One of the things the center would like to do is encourage study abroad," said Wegs. 
He hopes that the Nanovic Center will be a haven for stu­dents who have studied abroad to meet and talk about Europe with students considering studying abroad, and that they will be able to develop forums more suitable to undergraduate interest. 
Other plans include frequent panel discussions on current European political situations, a series of films shown from the center, an essay contest, fi­nancing student· conferences or contests dealing with European themes, and lunchtime discus­sions on culture, current events, and language. 
"Nothing has been done with European study programs for years so we would like to in­crease student interest," Wegs explained. 
Although presently the cen­ter's forty faculty members are comprised mainly of arts and letters professors, Wegs hopes that will change. 
"Ultimately, I hope we will be more than just an arts and let­ters center," he said, "no one will be excluded." 
4October 1993 

By KATE CRISHAM 
News Writer 
Helping young Hispanics re­alize and appreciate their rich cultural heritage is essential to helping them achieve success, according to Puerto Rico­American Association President and executive officer Peter Bloch. 
"As John F. Kennedy said, if you do not know where you are coming from, you will not know where you are going," said Bloch. "This is especially true for many Hispanic youths." 
"Many young Hispanics do not know exactly where they stand," he added. "They do not 
know what it  means  to  be  
Puerto  Rican  or  Cuban  or  
Hispanic."  

This identity crisis is one of the major reasons why many Hispanics are caught in a trap of poverty and unemployment, said Bloch. 
"When forty to fifty percent of all Hispanic teenagers drop out of high school, that signals a terrible danger," he said. "It is a terrible waste of human beings. If it continues, the pre­sent decadence of the U.S. 
economy can only increase." 
Bloch claimed that helping Hispanics become more aware of their identity may solve a large part of their problems. 
"You cannot get ahead in life without a certain amount of ambition," he noted. "You can­not have this ambition if you do not have a certain amount of pride. And if you are not com­fortable with your identity, this pride will definitely be lacking." 
He added, "If they know who and what they are, young Hispanics will not be as easily caught in a web of drug and al­cohol addiction." 
According to Bloch, the Hispanic culture was one of the world's greatest civilizations. 
"Don Quixote, the El Greco ... these are just a few of the great artistic and literary works produced by Hispanics," he said. "Hispanic youths have every right to be proud of their culture." 
Bloch spoke last night as part of a program in celebra­tion of Hispanic Heritage Month. The program also included performances by gui­tarist Richard Cubano and poet-singer Carmen Luca. 
=.·:.:~;;:.(;.;,:_::_·: ·==··::··.· 
·.·:&;;.::.::= .. 
If unu are unsure of what career path to follow-this is the place for ~ou. Learn about careers spanning the four business curricula: marketing.management. accounting ana finance. 

9:00 to S:OO 
Center for 
Continuing Education 

Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (April1994, September 1994, january 1995) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in a a life or health science degree program. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. Amore competitive G.P.A. is favored. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 
• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Awell-rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences Diagnosis X-rav 


' I ]I

and Chiropractic. 
• Full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


Call: 1-800-888-4777 or Write: Director ofAdmissions 
2501 West 84th Strett, Minneapolis, MN 55431 
Thursday, September 30, 1993 

page4 The Observer • NEWS 

Text ofStudent Affairs' directive policy 
Editor's note: Following is the text of a new directive from the Office of Student Affairs. The directive has the force of University regulation. 
The only appropriate manner in which to assimilate new members into this community is to welcome them. Initiation­related rites, ceremonies. ex­ercises or activities of any kind jeopardize the self-esteem and safety of students, affect the University as a whole and are, 
Initiation refers to any behav­ior on or off-campus that sin­gles out new members of this community or new members of a student organization or group in a manner that is unwelcom­ing. 
It includes. but is not limited to, acts that appear to demean, deride or humiliate new mem­bers or that place the personal safety of students in jeopardy. 
The fact that new members may state that they willingly participated in such activities of the event as an initiation nor relieve those planning, spon­soring or participating in the event of responsibility. 

If students from any resi­dence facility, student organi­zation or group violate this di­rective, the residence facility, student organization or group may be subject to serious col­lective sanctions. 
Individual students who vio­late this directive will be sub­ject to serious disciplinary action which may include sus­
Rose 
continued from page 1 

much as fifty percent of the households in each economy are involved in "uncivil," mone­tized, or illegal economies. 
An "uncivil economy includes those who have a job in a sec­ond, shadow economy, is paid as a connection, or uses foreign currency in their own country," said Rose. 
Rose said that one of the biggest strengths of Eastern Europe's economic transition is the patience that the people are showing. "There is a lot of pa­tience in the system, and the people are positive about the five to ten year future," he said. 
According to the study. only twenty-nine percent of the peo­ple gave the current system a positive rating, where as sixty five percent gave a positive rat­ing for five years from now. 

therefore, strictly prohibited. will not negate characterization pension or dismissal. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Graduate Page Editor 
Notre Dame graduate student interested in editing a weeki page focusing on graduate issues. 
College Page Editor 
A Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student interested in editing a page examining other campuses. 
Please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by Friday, October 1. Call 631-4542 ifyou have questions about either position. 
Initiation 
continued from page 1 
"You would always hear things in an anecdotal sense about what was happening in other halls," he explained. "I guess over the course of time people (administrators) were getting more and more wor­ried, and when they had enough information, they fi­nally did something." 
Father Thomas King, rector of Zahm Hall, said the hall's initiation was always voluntary and alcohol-free. "Zahm Hall's initiations only involved people from Zahm -a controlled group of freshmen," he said. 
But Sister Kathleen Beatty all initiations are inappropriate. "Any form of harassment is wrong. Even what was done to the young men was wrong." 
Several other dorms spon­sored initiation events for freshman residents. 
Zahm Hall scheduled its freshmen event to coincide with the first pep rally. "Odin," a symbolic leader, and his guards led toga-clad initiates to a foun­tain, then to the reflecting pool in front of the Hesburgh Library, where they were "bap­tized." 
After trouncing through mud pits near Loftus Sports Center, the soiled freshmen cheered at the football pep rally. 

Freshmen at St. Edward's 
Hall also donned togas, gath­
ered behind the dorm. and 
were covered with shampoo 
and shaving cream. During the 
initiation, which was approved 
by Father Gene Gorski, dorm 
rector, they were taught the 
dorm song and given nick­
names. Later, the freshmen 
jumped into the lake. 
Although some students are 
upset about the new policy. . King doesn't think the initia­tions will be greatly missed. "I 
think that the loss of one event 
doesn't dampen the spirit of the 
hall." 
John Lucas and Katie Mur­phy contributed to this report. 
See news happening? Call The Observer 631-5323 
The Observer 
Circulation Drivers Needed For Friday Afternoons 1:30-3:30 
This is a paid position. 
Contact Joe Riley at 634-1780 
.. Do Lunch .. 
• With Us! 
Lunch dates, club 
meetings, or just ·No More 
Dorm Fooda days, The 
Works Bar and Grill is the 
place for lunch! 
Ask about our party 
rooms for larger groups, or 
reserve a quiet table for a 
relaxed, low-pressure lunch 
break. lk'''~
A~ ,.~ 
The Works Bar &, Grill
WR·.~.~S 
""u ~t:HII.I 501 N Niles 237-9757 


GRADUATESTUDENTIUITREAT 
Friday, October 15-Saturday, October 16 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Planning: Graduate students Interested In ·this retreat are Invited and urged to attend a one hour meeting Monday. October II. 7:00-8:00 p.m., In the Fischer Graduate Community Center In order to help plan the retreat. 
Deadline: Reservations will be accepted until Monday, October II. 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631·8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost: SlS.OQJor U1e cost or meals and snacks . 


Prepar1ng or the GRE? 

. GRE CLASSES 1993 Exam 
EXPERIENCE KAPLAN TOTAL TRAINING ANYTHING ELSE Is PARTIAL PREP! for more info'rmation and to enroll call 
"::-!::,. 

1-800-I<AP-TEST 
KAPLAN 
The an11wer to the te!lt aue!ltilHI. ........,. .... ~ ·... .,._~ .... "' ........................ ~ ........... , :­
----~ ~-----------------------' 
-------~~ -­
Thursday, September 30, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
---~------------~--~-­
Hard-line supporters hurl rocks at Russian police 
By DEBORAH SEWARD intention of using force. cars, throwing rocks at riot po­nerves with the increasingly Associated Press But his foreign minister. lice and building a barricade demoralized and isolated law­Andrei Kozyrev, did not rule across a main street. makers who have been holed 
MOSCOW out an assault on the building, Shouting "Shame!" and up in the parliament building ­
President Boris Yeltsin tried saying on CNN's Larry King "Death to Yeltsin!," the protest­the Russian White House ­to break the nerve of defiant Live: "Yeltsin has made it clear ers marched past the U.S. since Yeltsin dissolved parlia­hard-line lawmakers Tuesday, there will be no huge use of Embassy. stopping at an under­ment on Sept. 21. surrounding the Russian par­force, anyway we have some­pass where three young men Many lawmakers were de­liament with thousands of riot how to deal with this situation." died during the August 1991 serting the hard-line cause to police and troops in his biggest Special red-beret paratroop­hard-line coup attempt. work in Yeltsin's administra­show of force yet. ers armed with machine guns Hundreds of police in full riot tion. More than 200 deputies 
Trucks and barbed wire were moved in late Tuesday gear and armed with shields ' are negotiating job offers with blocked roads leading to the night around the perimeter of dispersed the crowd. the government, which set up parliament building. Senior the parliament, but riot police At least two people were ar­an employment office for law­Interior Ministry officials commanders said there no rested and several people had makers and their staff. barked through loudspeakers, unusual activity in the area minor injuries. The Interior Ministry said ordering the lawmakers and early Wednesday morning. Across town, Interior Minister Tuesday the remaining hard­their supporters to surrender Earlier. the ultimatum trig­Viktor Yerin joined police and liners were becoming increas­their weapons and leave the gered a protest by about 3,000 sobbing relatives at an emo­ingly desperate and had ig­building by Wednesday. hard-line demonstrators, some tional funeral for a policeman nored orders to surrender their 
Top presidential aides later of whom tried to break through killed last week when anti­guns. It said the area was being backed off the 24-hour deadline police lines and then march Yeltsin forces attacked a mili­cordoned off to prevent trouble. and said Boris Yeltsin had no near parliament, beating on tary building. Uniformed police The standoff appeared to be officers with rifles guarded the taking its toll on police sur­coffm as mourners filed past. rounding the building. "It's The Home For All Your Cycling Needs Yeltsin has ruled out com­about time we start shooting," promise with his opponents, one officer said, as the police

4,.~-?{(.~"'Q,~:.. 

and the deployment of more force withdrew into a large
~"' ·-·-·:·:·:~:-:-:-:-:-:~:::::;::::~:::;::;:·.~-­

troops stepped up the war of courtyard.
HQJJSE..llF 

'93 ·ale 
NOW in ~.~ ...n.rt1ro,.c:1 

i.'i..·.i····:·i.l: .•.
..~tpfi~.,~··.·sf 1.i.i·l·',i.l
~.fp.~a·.!,et.I.~::,J~.'.i.!.l:l.!.

--_n. I:U :.u~ :JQ": •...•,·,~~., .•
, .•·,·'.'·,.·,··.: 

= 
= ·:=:·:·:_:::::::::~:> .=:;:;~/2;;;;;;;;~:;:;:;:~t; ~~tJltmmmt~r~~ . 
1o140 McKinley • 
219-679-4992 
10-1 Monday -Friday • 9-5 Saturday 
~~I'll! 

The Department of Music Presents 
A FACULTY CONCERT 
fj(aren r:Buransl@s, ce{{ist 
Wi{fiam Cerny, pianist 
MUSIC OF 
R6ZSA, CASSAD6 & VILLA-LOBOS 

Sunday October 3, 1993 2:00p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art The concert is free and open to the public 

FOR PEOPLE WITHOUT COIDll1l.leXES AN l:NlCMATlC COMBINATION FOR THE lJISCERNlNG SOUL A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD CLUB 2J PREIENTI : LIVE BN\05, ~~~ill'ie@~, SUBMARINE SANDWICITS BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTA.IN.MENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION CLUB 2J & ~~~[W)illlUY~t§) ~[M]~~illllf~)§ ARE LOCATED AT THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND US 23 (SOUTH BEND AVE) JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE. SO WHEN YOU ARE LOOKING FOR (j~'T :FOCYD, (j1t£Jlll"J'T.~FJ{MT.IJ(f-OR BOTH -JJ(Q)DN 1iHIE (ILUB  


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 30, 1993 
Murphy 
continued from page I 
leaving little time for family life. 
"Every minute you spend in a truck is stress," Murphy said, "and if you have a family, I would not recommend this job." Although he thought it would be an easy way to earn money at first, he later realized many of the drawbacks of truck dri-
Reaction 
continued from page I 

the University." 
Dillon Hall's scavenger hunt is also backed by a long tradi­tion, although Jeff Goddard, Dillon Hall president, does not classify it as an "initiation rite." 
"Initiations are not allowed and we really haven't had any. The scavenger hunt is to get to know the buildings on campus and get to know each other," said Goddard. 
Bob Castelli, a member of Dillon's freshman orientation committee, agrees that the hunt should not be regarded as initi­ation, but does support the administration's eiTorts to curb initiation rites. 
"It is more of an activity, but it did get out of hand this year," he said. "I agree with (the di­rective) though. One of the most 
•
•
• 

UNIVEQ8ITY Of NOTRE DAME 3 & 6 MILE RUNS AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 10:00 AM AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD trg®IXIOOO'ii'® tr@ c.\!!.I!. IF1Jiffl ~IX! [gOO® [Rl[g@l~~OO Olffl c.\©Wc.\lffl©[g c.\tr OO[g©®I?@OO'ii'® ®~.®® Olffl c.\©Wc.\lffl©[g ~ ®®.®® ©c.\W @IF OOc.\©[g ®'ii\!JJ@[glffllr c.\00@ ®trc.\!F!F @OW~O@OO~ 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 631-6100 
"One of the most 
ASTONISHING 
directing debuts In adecade: adelightful, exhilarating film which announces the arrival of a major new talent. See it!" 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
ving. 
When asked about the advan­tages of the job, he replied that because a current salary is slightly less than $18 per hour, it is an easy way to make a lot of money fast. 
Murphy also addressed stereotypes about truck drivers. 
"It bothers me that we are thought of as corrupt, hostile criminals." 
He also mentioned that men are no longer the primary peo­
appealing things about Notre Dame is that there aren't fra­ternities and you don't have to deal with that." 
However, Margo Burtchaell, a junior in Farley, opposes any type of initiation rites. 
"It doesn't really make the people feel welcome. They seem really mean to them. I don't know any of them that are meant for fun," said Burtchaell. 
Jim Penilla, St. Edward's Hall president, does not fully sup­port the new directive. Any St. Edward's initiation rites are or­ganized carefully and with the safety of the residents in mind, he said. 

St. Edward's freshmen tradi­tionally learn the dorm song and are given new names be-• fore going into one of the lakes. "We've never had anyone seriously hurt before," he said. "People look forward to it, even over the summer, and to some 
pie behind the wheel. The number of women truck drivers is on the rise and, according to Murphy, have proven to be very competant drivers. 
Part of the discussion cen­tered on the union strike that broke out early yesterday in Ohio due to a possible two-cent increase in gasoline prices. According to Murphy, this slight increase could cause ap­proximately 100 companies to go out of business. 
extent they enjoy it. (The direc­tive) does affect us tremen­dously." 
Several students not involved in the initiation activities sup­port the dorm's rights to spon­sor such activities or cere­monies. "I don't see any problem with it," said Lisa Giannuzzi, a Lewis sophomore. "For the guys' dorms I know they can get a lit­tle rough, but I think it's good for dorm unity." 
"I think it should be up to the discretion of the dorms," said Susan Ranaghan, a junior in Pasquerilla East. 
~~FR~EiEI.W~lLL.illYitlt(PG~)Iiilillailliii~·l 
14S,41S.64s.•oo SLEEPLESS IN SEATIU(PG) 
~~~~b~i;i~NCE(R) ~tit~~~~.,

2•15.4,45, UO.IO•OO TilE SECRET GARDEN (G) MO, 4•30, 6,45, g,45 WARLOCK• THE ARMAGEDOON (Rl MS, 5,00, 7•15, 9,45 
:u 
~I· 
~ 1: 

Q..l
.
~ 

~r 
<tl 
Q! ..:) 
0 

~ 
Q_ 
Center for Social Concerns 
Hurry on Over! 
Showcase 
continued from page I 

University's Medill School of Journalism. 
"There is something for al­most everyone here," said Cathy Nafe, coordinator of placement services. "It is a great opportunity to discover career opportunities, generate insight into graduate school 
LEADERSHIP FORUM 
Open to all ND students for the development of personal leadership skills 
Oct. 4 Time/Stress Management Oct. 11 How to Coordinate a Project at ND Nov. 1 How to be an Effective Leader Nov. 8 Decision Making/Problem Solving 
:I 

Nov. 15 Creating Change in an Organization 
:! 'I ,1 7:00 Pi\'1 -8:00 Pl\I 1
I 
I 

Notre Dame Room (La Fortune Student Center) ' I Re~reshments'1: provJ.ded I 
Thinkina0 about 
.
service next year? 

TO THE FAIR" Thursday, Septernber 30 7:00 -10:00 p.m. at the 
and the workplace and get em­ployment leads." 
The Showcase of Careers is free for students and resumes will be accepted by many of the organizations attending. 
The event is sponsored by the Counseling & Career Development Center, Student Government and the Sophomore, Junior and Senior class boards. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:30 



•••CONSIDERATIONS 
VALUES WORTH RISKING FOR 

The other day I heard a person advise another person, "Don't try anything for the first time." At first I did not think twice about this advice. Suddenly, the absurdity of this advice dawned on me. We would still be in diapers if we never tried anything for the first time. 
It seems that fear of failure implicitly pervades our society. We praise people who try something for the first time and succeed. Yet, we fear to try something for the first time because we might fail. We do value people who try something for the first time. We call those who succeed "courageous" and "creative." We call others "failures." I don't think that there are many other words which strike as much fear in the hearts of students, especially Notre Dame students, as the word failure does. 
Consider Jesus. After reflection, his time in the desert, Jesus sort of 
tried something for the first time. He obviously made an impact on people by the way he lived. Eventually his way of living a life devoted 
to God led him to a humiliating death. Yet, Christians proclaim him 
to be God, who continues to live. Ah, what appears to be failure is 
believed to be the victory of love. What appears to be failure is not 
always failure, and there are things worth trying for the first time. The story of Jesus doesn't make taking risks or trying something new easy, 
but maybe it helps. 
Is there something in your heart that is calling you to try something for the first time? Are there values that you feel are worth a risk? 
Tonight, from 7:00 pm,lO:OO pm, the Center for Social Concerns will have an open house with information about being of direct service to others after graduation. Throughout the years, there have been a number of Notre Dame graduates who felt called to risk through direct service to others. Many have been Holy cross Associates or Jesuit Volunteers. If you are thinking about risking through service to others~, go and check it out. 
Talk about risks, next Monday, October 4th, the Catholic Church celebrates the life of St. Francis of Assisi (died in 1226). Francis grew, up in a wealthy family, but began to wonder what his wealth was really worth. He desired to follow Jesus so closely that he renounced his possessions and devoted his life to serving others, especially those neglected the most. Besides being known for the rejection of material wealth and commitment to serving others, Francis and his companions 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Isaiah 5: 1..7  
2ND READING  Philippians 4: 6..9  
GosPEL  Matthew 21: 33..43  

were also known for the way they celebrated together. Ah, a holy person who liked to party. What does someone like St. Francis have to say to us today!To try something for the first time takes some courage. Dorothy Day, a person who tried something for the first time and co, founded the Catholic Worker Movement, a movement especially devoted to the poor and social justice, once wrote: 
Most of us have not the courage to set out on the Christian life wholeheartedly, so God arranges it for us. 
What do you feel God is arranging for you? 
Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
SPANISH MAss 
Sunday, October 3 
11:30 a.m. Walsh Hall Padre Robert Pelton, C.S.C., Presider 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. October 2  5:00 p.m.  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
Sun. October 3  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Richard V. Warmer, C.S.C.  

VIEWPOINT 
page8 Thursday, September 30, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SA!i'IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
M~gF.ditor 
Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya johnson Photo Editor ................................. jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Bl!"ineu Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Banh OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observet is the independenr newspaper published by the s<uden!S of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eith~r insrimrion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editot, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. C'.ommemaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 A=m/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoim 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 
News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

JOSH OZERSKY I, FARRINGTON 
'I appealed implicitly to natural law' 

You have to wonder some­times what people are thinking about when they write about morality. Here I have before me two angry letters. One begins by calling me "but another aspect of liberalism's Promethean nature," going on to berate me for a "lack of un­derstanding of natural law, and reason in general," "a complete misanalysis," and so on. This writer is very hot under the col­lar. 
Much cooler, on the other hand, is the writer who finds something "deeply disturbing" about "[Ozersky's] view toward women, about his view toward gay men, about us/them, sub­ject/object ways of relating." 
"And," she continues, he thinks he's being decent..." This is the worst blow of all. I've shown myself to be objectifying, homophobic, and a boob gener­ally, and here I am trying to grab the high moral ground! 
The juxtaposition of these two letters is interesting. If there's one thing the first writer can't stand, it's Promethean liberals who don't understand natural law. 
The other writer, for her part, is fed to the teeth with us/them, subject/object reac­tionaries and their condescend­ing sympathies. Both of these writers make legitimate cases, but neither presents a really humane argument. Which, I would suggest, makes all the difference in the world. 
Abstract name calling, whether Thomist or Postmod­ern, always maims communi­cation. The object of my essay on homosexuality, whatever its alleged doctrinal flaws, was to lessen the alienation homosex­uals face. 
DOONESBURY 
H&Y, MAN, HAS 
7HU/?PUCK£1i!.. 5HOWN UP Y&F 

t=:"11~~/ 
OH,HI, 
MARl<... 
NOT YET. 
\ 
Neither the law student, by "hoorawing" me about will and nature and natural law, nor the grad student, in her polemic against heterosexual attitudes towards gays and lesbians, does an atom of service to the general goodwill. I do not want to bore Viewpoint readers by going into a point-by point refu­tation of the law student's piece (although it sure would be good fun if I could), but it will suffice to say here that natural law is not, and can not, be the foren­sic sledgehammer he makes it out as. 
Natural law, as far as I can tell, means the moral order of the universe and (hence) the predisposition of our con­sciences. However we differ on specifics, in other words, ideals of justice, compassion, etc. exist in almost everybody. It can be perverted or suppressed, but there it is. 
The Church, Catholics think, has the inside track on this order, but more important than the jot and title of its applica­tion is its main imperative: Love. Love, in Star Trek terms, is the Prime Directive of natural law. 
Therefore, when writers like the law student attempt to jus­tify their loathings through nat­ural law, something is queer. There is also some business in his letter about my liberal ten­dency to worship will over nature, and this too does a dis­service to Catholic doctrine. 
Homosexuals are tormented by their appetites, both noble and base, as we all are; the Church maintains that, unlike the rest of us, they are not free to act on their desires, and that's just tough luck. If you have any human sympathy, and you should, that should smart 
GREAT. THATU GIV/3 Me A CJIANC/3 7D U5T!N 70 HIS 
C/} 8l3f(Jii!l3 7H/3 
5HJW... I 

going down. Any act of love is an act of will; any moral prose­cutor who pretends that a homosexual love act is an act of will in a way a heterosexual one isn't is only kidding him­self. 
The other writer is sancti­monious in the modern way. She comes at you with ques­tions, rather than assertions, and expects you to be more or less shamed into silence. Rather than come at me in the two-fisted way of the law stu­dent, she just assumes that I am a creep, and asks a series of leading rhetorical questions to prove it: "his use of ['well­meaning'] is suspiciously pejo­rative [!]... Could the discrepan­cy lie in the fact that tradition­ally it has been easy for men to objectify women ... Could it be there is something threatening to him as a man...?" 
Toward the end, the usual pseudoscientific promo jargon gets thrown, and she as much as says that I'm misguided in my idea of Catholicism. 
Judas Priest! We're back where we started. For the record, the thrust of my column was this: the position of the gay/postmodern community, that genital piercing and hair­cuts are equivalent propo­sitions, and the position of the Church, that all homosexuals must be celibate until death, are both offensive to our com­mon ideal of human decency. 
In doing so, I appealed implicitly to natural law, or human compassion, according to your taste, and I think it is a pretty solid position. And this rain of empty buzzwords on it has not changed my mind one bit. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Neither the Bible nor evolution perpetuate racist attitudes 
Dear Editor: 
an interpreta­
I as a profes­t i o n 
sor teaching 
Furthermore, 
anthropologicaI many physical 
evolution, I fee I anthropologists, 
compelled to 
since the 1964 
respond to publication of 
Pieder Beeli's 
F r a n k

q! ~ letter (The 
Livingstone's
.
Observer, Sept 'On the Non­
27). Although existance of 
my first reac­
Human Races" 
tion to was to and C. Loring

\i~
ignore him, I 
Brace's "A Non­

racial Approach decided to 
respond if there 
Towards the 
was even the Understanding 
slightest chance 
of Human

q:
that silence might be inter­
preted as agreement. 

Beeli's depiction of evolution~ ary theory shows a woeful and shocking ignorance of the sub­ject. A detailed response to his points would be beyond the scope of this entire newspaper, let alone an editorial. Suffice it to say that not one single con­crete point was raised with regard to modern anthropologi­cal evolutionary theory, espe­cially as it applies to the study of human diversity. 
It can be demonstrated repeatedly that indeed Darwinian evolution has been used to promote racists' agen­das. It can equally be demon­strated that Biblical beliefs have been used to support racist tendencies. However, to then argue that either philoso­phy is inherently racist is sim­plistic to the point of absurdity. 
Anthropological evolution does not argue that one race is inferior (or superior) to anoth­er. Indeed the vast majority of literature in this field since the 1930's has argued against such Diversity," have
G.V 
argued that the race concept is invalid biologi­cally. 
If there is a "tragedy" at Notre Dame, it is the presence of students at the graduate level who have such a profound misunderstanding of concepts so basic to modern scientific thinking. It is also tragic that someone would chose to char­acterize an entire discipline as racist, when they are lacking even a rudimentary under­standing that they might have gotten from a freshman-level course in that discipline. 
In summary, Mr. Beeli simply does not understand that to which he speaks. If there is racism present, it is in Mr. Beeli's use of African-American issues to promote himself and his confused views. It is Mr. Beeli that "owes the African­American community an apolo­gy," as well as all disciplines in the social, biological, and phys­ical sciences which are ground­ed in evolutionary principles. 
SUSAN SHERIDAN 
Depanmenr ofAnthropology 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MY GO/?... /A/HAT MAK/35 YOU THINI< 
IM@IY? 
I NO, THAT'S 
NOT/T. HAV& 
YOUUET IA/13/GHT:f! 
\ 

"por tornadoes, the siren 
will issue a steady tone for three to five mmutes. (A wailing sound indicates an enemy attack -it is not an 'all clear.')" 
-DuLac, page 89 
~---~---­

r ---­
ACCENT 
Thursday, September 30, 1993 page 9 
Something for everyone 
Asian Americans celebrate the moon 
at do you do if our husband bas  have two children. they to form a·elose, loVing··T,""''''"' life, but tragedy strikes Pl:l.trick suddenly dies, ·cnlSllltngj Neria's visions of a  By TANYA KRWARUCZENKO Assistant Accent Editor For anyone looking for a little more culture than can be  in mid-autumn on the fifteenth day of the eighth month of the Chinese year. This year, it falls on Sept. 30 of the Western calendar.  which are similar to rice cakes filled with a bean paste, with each region of China featuring a different type of mooncake. "Instead of eating Mooncakes,  
died, taking with him not only your hopes for building a  future. Patrick's brother-in-la Phineas, initially proves n·,e·JlpfiJil!  offered by the greater South Bend/Mishawaka area, the Asian American Association  To the Chinese, the moon is an object of fascination. They  we will be eating Oreo Cookies to celebrate," stated Wong. "We invite everyone to come  
and life together, hut also any rights and land you held? This is the situation facing title character in "Neria," a lm being shown at the Auditorium of the Museum at 1 p.m. on 30. A one dollar donation  to Neria in coping with death of her husband, a'!entually assumes ...,:.,.•••• ~ over Patrick and belongings and n ... , ..,,.,.t<, ing Neria novver!ess less. When Neria arrives find tbe lo~ ch~m.l{(ld children gone, a.e(:JUEI.SJ;ol  will be celebrating the Full Moon Festival this Thursday, Sept. 30, from 8-10 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. "By holding the festival, we hope to increase the awareness of the Asian Culture," said Jeannie Wong, co-president of the Asian American Association.  have created moon folklores involving characters like the Hare, the Moon Lady Chang'e, the cassia tree, the Old Man of the Moon and Wu Gang, the cassia cutter. The Chinese calendar follows the lunar schedule. On the fif­teenth day of each month there is a full moon; the fullest full  out and watch the moon and hear about our culture." The association will also be participating in the Multicultural Festival on Thursday, Sept. 30, from 12-1 p.m. "We will be making Chinese Lanterns, which many people in  
!:';J)(l•nso,reo by the Notre Dame s~kJt>gal aid l:l.nd ~1:gbtfo1~ hEI't.j tru•.•~ ..... Students' Association rights as a widow ttnun...;>n.J. "Neria"·is billed as "Ar· :J;!.r<  She ~xplained that only three percent of the campus is Asian and that there is a need to ex­ moon comes on the fifteenth day of the eighth month.  China decorate their houses with," said Wong. "We will also be passing out information and  
from Zimbabwe the universal:  plain and describe the culture. The Chinese Full Moon  Wong explained that in cele­bration of the festival, the  telling a couple of stories about the moon."  
women for more <  This is only the second year  
IIrEteU4()m from man, society.tra+  of existence  for  the Asian  
and law."  American Association.  
film, made in ......w.,.,,.v  
a Zimbabwean attempts to ortr • IIDEISSilge about the in>lnnr•tan  Upcoming events sponsored by the organization include a film festival in October depict­ 
struggle for """''."''~"  ing Asian stereotypes, a dance in November and dinners once  
a semester.  
"This is the first time the  
Asian American Association  
will be celebrating the full  
moon festival on campus," said  
Wong.  
"We also hope to hold  an  
Asian heritage week in the  
spring  which  will  include  
speakers and dinners," said  
Wong.  
Anyone  with  questions  
regarding  the  Full  Moon  
Festival or the Asian American  
Association should  contact  
Wong at 634-4978.  

Margaret Becker sings her soul at Saint Mary's 

By LAUREN SIRAGUSA include concerts in 100 cities brochure about the organiza­Accent Writer across the country. tion inside copies of "Simple 
Her most recent accomplish­House." 
From the first moment you ment is her latest album "Soul," Becker also works as the hear her music, Margaret a collection of deeply personal spokesperson for World Becker's tone of passionate songs. Vision's "30-Hour Famine," a 
conviction is something that "Someone pointed out to me project which encourages peo­
stays with you. She is a women that every song on 'Soul' is a ple to help the hungry. of deep faith, whose honesty prayer, that there aren't any Before embarking on her and originality is heard in every songs about issues or horizon­recording and performing ca­song. tal relationships," said Becker. reer, Becker studied music at 
Becker will perform at Saint "It's all vertical, between me James Madison University and 
Mary's on Oct. 3 at 7:30p.m. in and God." taught music at a private O'Laughlin Auditorium,with "The new album is peaceful school. Becker also performed singer Troy Johnson as the and happy-the happiest and back-up vocals for recording opening act. simplest one I've ever writ­sessions. 
Becker's honors and awards ten.. .I have a more peaceful, Tickets are $9.50 in advance, include two Gospel Music confident perspective on my $11.00 at the door. Group dis­Association Dove Awards and life, on faith, on those around counts are available. three Grammy nominations, as me-and that's what's reflected 
well as numerous .gospel chart-on this album," said Becker. 
With her incredible vocal 
range, Becker has been com­

"Someone pared to Kate Bush and Annie 
Lennox by critics.

pointed out to me 
Her Christian songs are

that every song 
intensely personal, reachingon 'Soul is a out to the audience just as she prayer, that there reaches out to others in her 
aren't ?nY songs personal life. about 1ssues or 
For every copy of her 1991

horizontal rela­
album "Simple House" that istionships." sold, 55 cents is donated to Habitat for Humanity. She has-MargaretBecker also held several concerts for 
varied concerns. 

topping singles since 1987. Becker also sponsors a 
Her 1992 tour was such a na­Peruvian child through the tional success that her present Compassion International relief 1993 tour has been enlarged to agency, and includes a 


Margaret Becker in concert, performing her chart-topping hits. 
Interested in writing for Accent Already signed up to be an Accent Reporter? Whatever the case may be, 
-
You're Invited: 
Accent Reporter meeting and training sessions Thursday, Sept. 30 7:00p.m.; 3rd floor LaFortune 
The Observer ac:ccpts classi6eds every business day from I 0 a.m. ro 3:30 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 r..m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for ncxr-day classificds is 3p.m. All classrficds musr be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. 
page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 30, 1993 

NOTICES  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235. EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  Need FSU Stu. & Ga's Eric x1087 I NEED GA'S FOR PITT,USC & BC NICKX1777  NEED I PITT GA X3533 I NEED 2 GA'S FOR THE PITT GAME. CALL JEFF 0273-4867  
Experience the ultimate of all  Career employment available. No experience necessary. For more  BUS. 232-8444.  GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­1429  
sports-SKYDIVING! Train with Great Lakes Skydlve111 In Sept. and  information call 1-206-634-()468 ext.C5584  NEED TICKETS  NEED UP TO 6 USC GEN. ADM. TIX. PLEASE CALL KATHY COL­ PERSONAL  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump Course, with student 10. West Michigan's oldest & most experi­ GREEKS & CLUBS  Female r-mate needed IMMEDI­ATELY at Turtle Creekl Gina 4­2372  I need tickets for these games: BC (student ticket) PITT (student and GAs)  LECT (301) 737-5520. HELPI  THINKING ABOUT SERVICE  
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ Call Jen or Nicky at X1308  I NEED PITT  NEXT YEAR?  
ated. One hour North of South Bend. (616)628-4892  RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI For your fraternity, sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for  FOR SALE  NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201­ AND BCGA's. CALL AMY X4952  COME TO THE POST-GRAD FAIRI THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 30TH  
yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just  217-G030 (W) 201-992-8700  WANTED FOUR TICKETS TO NO  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­ 
Typing  for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75.  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  FSU. CALL COLLECT 619  CERNS  
287-4082  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  Need 1 USC G.A.I  942 5030.  7-10PM  
Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s  OVER 40 PROGRAMS REPRE­ 
Undergraduate meeting Sunday  Call Karen at 4-4987.  Have 1 FSU & 1 BC stud. to  SENTED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH  
7pm glnd/smc. Kelly 289-4063.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fish­ 8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE  TRADE for 2 USC GA's  INFORMATION I  
eries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or  Orange County to Chicago 10/21  Need FSU stud tix  Chi-Chi @1200  
GENERAL MEETING Sunday 330 p.m. (Erik 634-3107/Kelly 289­4063) glnd/smc po 194 NO IN 46556.  more per month on fishing vessels or In canneries. Many companies provide transportation and room & board. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For more informa­ Chicago to Orange County 10/24 Only $333/each round trip Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643 x1515 all hours  call Aaron@ 272-3418 Need Pitt GA's Call Andy @3654  STUDS 4 SALE -2 FL. ST, 3 B.U. BEST OFFER 284-5195.  THANK YOU St. Jude for glnd/smc po 194, NO IN 46556  
tion call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Please help my Uncle live' a lifelong  I need st. tix bks please call Pat  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ 
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS RUNNING AND EATING PAN­CAKES. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO.  FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII Individuals and Student Organizeations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's  Spring Breakl Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Roomsl Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $2791 Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291 Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  dream: I need 2 BC GA's and a female student ticket. Call Sean at 4-3479 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED FSU TICKETS CALL JOHN 271-1706  3281 I need 2 pairs of PITT GA's call Tim 237-1012$$$$$ NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  agement and security to the pre­cious life your are carrying; a full­time mom and loving dad; married 12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­8195.  
Chlcego-based corporation recently  leader. Inter-Campus Programs  West $239, Daytona Room w/  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  CALL JOE@ X1613  
Notre Dame licensed seeks local  1-800-327-6013  Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES  
agent to sell T -shirts, sportswear,  NEED 2 FEMALE STUD. TIX FOR  PANCAKES AND IS WILLING TO  
etc. OFF CAMPUS only; sopho­ WILL TRADE 2 PITT. OR 2 FSU  PITT. JAY X1534  RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET  
more or junior preferred. Generous  WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES  DEPENDABLE 1986 PLYMOUTH  FOR 2 USC. -TONY X3102  THEM. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ 
commission. Call Tracy @ (800) 551-()035.  TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  DUSTER CALL HOLLY 271-8940  Needed -2 tickets for  I NEED PITT GA TIX  DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO.  
FOR MORE INFO.  TICKETS  Pittsburgh/NO Game. Call 634­4023  CALL MIKE AT 277-8135  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  I'm driving to Miami Oh this  ATTENTION SOPHOMORESIIII  
CALL 259-8684.  weekend and would like a rider.  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  DESPERATELY need 2 PITT GA's  
Todd 1251  TIXS.272-6306  NEED 2 BYU TIXI  Call Sharon 282-2965  Class Mass Is Oct. 3, 2:00 p.m. at  
Anybody who witnessed the accident on Tuesday (Sept. 28) morning around 7:45am near the Intersection of US31 and Saint  LOOKING FOR MOTHER'S HELPER WHO ENJOYS CHIL­DREN. FLEX HAS (an afternoon &  $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT  PLS CALL (801)484-7108 Will give big bucks and parents weekend GA's for FSU GA's. Call Mike at X16201  4 SALE PITT STUD TIX CHRIS 271-7807 I NEED *PITT* STDNT TIX  the Grotto. (If rain: Keenan­Stanford Chapel) Father Miscamble will preside.  
Mary college. Please call  a couple of AM's). CALL 232-6755.  273-6588.  CALL 273-6463  
Sgt. Hoffman at 235-9871  HELPI  FSU TIX NEEDEDIIIIIIII  I NEED two Pitt GA's Call Matt at x1686  Don't miss this opportunity to cele­brate Mass with friends!  
ILOST & FOUND I  I NEED A PLACE TO LIVEI If you need a roommate, ca11Jay-x1714  CALL CRAIG @273-3942 PLEASEII  I NEED PITT TICKETS  I need 2 Pitt GA's. Please call  FREE THE NAKED 4 II  
NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  CALL AMANDA @ 232-6984  Mary at 4-3023.  
MATT@ 232-3870  
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east side of the library on a ledge: dorm keys and car keys. Call Doug at 234-6306 to claim.  WANTED-PHYSICS TUTOR NEED EXTRA $? HELP ME LEARN PHYSICS 217. CALL COLLEEN AT 284-5407  NO vs USC -Need tickets for 10/23 game.Chris Marks 80G-523-3139.  Need 2 GAs for any home game Call nm at 273-1757  I NEED FSU GA's TOM 0 271-2908  To all joining the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club: The $25 membership fee is due this Thursday. Ques? Call Laurie 4-3490  
Lost: Green army-type bookbag with German book and dictionary.  SOONI  Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any combination. $Call Amy 2658  I need 1 USC ticket: student or GA. Please call Staph at 273-6548.  N.D. Alumnus has FSU GAs and is  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
Reward. 237-()659.  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  NEED 2 PITT GA OR STUD TIX.  looking to trade for USC GAs.  
Helpl We have sore butts, so we  GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  JOHN X3403  Please call (717) 697-2219 and ask  The Talent Show is tonight...  
I LEFT MY WALLET IN THE FIRST  need a couch or sofa. Do you have an old one? $60 or less?  GA:s 2773097  Wanted: One Gen Ad tix for Pitt  for Tom or leave message.  All current and former PWites and  
RACKET BALL COURT LAST NIGHT AT THE ROCK. I WOULD  Call usl x3043 or x3041  #@#@t@#@#@l@t@t@t@#@  and SIX for BCIIIII Call Colleen x2785 soon! Will pay $$$$$$$$  $WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ NEED  any guests are welcome.  
REALLY APPRECIATE GETTING MY 10 BACK. IF THERE IS STILL  Help! I need four tickets to the Boston College game....  ALUM needs to trade (2)BC GA's  2 PITT GA'S CALL (614) 459-0074 COLLECT AFTER 4 PM OR CALL  The fun starts at 7 p.m. In Theodore's (Notre Dame Ballroom)  
MONEY IN THE WALLET I WILL  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  for (2) USC or (2)PITT -call Jim  SHEILA AT x4072  
BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO  BRUNO'S NEEDS Driversllll  If you would like to make a hot  collect 313-478-6028  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
OFFER A REWARD. CALL ME  PT for Campus Deliveries.  babe's day with 4 tiK, call Elisa at  Pitt Stu. Tckt.  
BRYAN MEYER 112115 OR LEAVE  Call John 288-3220  634:2703...  Best Offer  
IT WITH MY RECTOR AT STAN­FORD HALL.  $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  @#@#@#@t@#@#@#@#@#@#  Need 2-4 Pitt GA's Katie 273-6324 $  Manuel 4-0505  Cultural Tidbit: Chu seok, or the Korean equiv. to Thanksgiving,  
follows the full moon on the lunar  
FOUND: WOMAN'S GOLD HEART RING IN DBRT BATHROOM CALL KRISTEN AT: 4-2780  Love kids? Would you like to help protect the environment? Join a one-a-month "Kids for Saving  Need 2 USC tickets. stud or GA Need FSU tickets, stud or GA Call Dave at 4-3507  Need 2 Pitt GAs & 6 Fl St (Any Comb) Mike -1862  $Need Pitt GAs$ Angie 273-5805  calender (Sept. 30). The family gathers to enjoy food, trad. games, and each other's company. The colorful han bake (trad. garment)  
Earth"Ciub sponsored by a local  NEED PITT GA'S & 1 ST TIX LIKE  is worn to celebrate and remem. the  
elementary school. Male counselors  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE  fall harvests of the past.  
LOST: Gold Camel Pendant some­ for 4-5th grade Earth Crusaders:  &  I NEED tickets for PITT and FSU ­ JIM 232-3807  -presented by the Korean Club  
where on North Quad. VERY SEN­ ecology, bicycling, hlklng and  2BC STUDTIX  student or GA's. Please call  
TIMENTAL-REWARDI  adventure course program. Call Bill  x2300  Christine at 273-4803.  FOR SALE: REMAINING  
Call Amy 0 K1334 Please helpl  evenings 272-4850  STUD/TIX BOOKLET. BEST  ND/SMC RTL  
NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA  OFFER CALL 234-6037  Man 10/4  
STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ I have 2 BC GAs and 1 BC stud. I  7:30-8:30  
LOST: VARSITY JACKET AT 200  8826 AFTER 5 PM  need 2 FSU tix (GAs or studs). Call  NEED 8, YES 8, PITT GAS, MIKE  107 LaFortune  
HAGGAR ON 9/17. REWARD.  NEEDED: Artist for commercial pro­ Theresa before 10pm at x4312.  AT271-8641  
CALL 4-2915.  ject. Newspaper ads, blw drawings.  I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY  
Great resume experience! The Works Bar & Grill 501 N Niles Ave  MIKEx2292  PLEASE HELPIIII NEED 1 GA OR  I NEED stud tix to USC & PITT  PRO LIFE MASS Saturday  
Found: Nancy Kim I found your football tickets In the Fischer parking lot. Please call me 0 4-4303 and If you're nice I'll return them.  237-9757 FOR RENT  HELPII NEED 2 GA's FOR BC­WILL SELL 1 PITT GA CALL HELEN x4026 We :-.leed PITT TIX  STU. TICKET FOR PITT. CALL KELLY @ 4-4270 I need 4 tix for Pitts  por favor bitte se vous please call Josh 234-2853 HELPII need Pitt GA's-Steve 1217  11:30 am Crypt 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111  
2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at  call 4-2994, ask for  IIIII  
1612 or Kristen at2812  Andrea or leave a  TRADE 2 BOSTON GA TIX FOR  
LOSTIII NO wallet and key holding  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE. NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  message 1111  PREMIER OF RUDY TIX. CALL 288-3028 AFTER 6 PM.  LYONS VOLLEYBALL TOURN. SUNDAY OCTOBER 3RD  
my entire llfelll Last seen in NSH Room 127. Could have lost In DeBartolo also. Contains 10,  27Hl989 24 HOUR ANSWERING MACHINE.  PITT AND USC GA s WANTED FOR RICH ALUMNI $$$232-1348  Heading home? Watching FSU-Miami?  2 BC GA'S ON SALE $125 EACH FIRST CALLER TO X3666 GETS  TEAMS OF FOUR: SIGN UP AT LUNCH OR DINNER  
- cash card, VISA, cash and other miscellaneous items. PLEASE RETURN IF FOUNDI REWARDI CALL DEB AT 13707. WANTED FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI SELL ONLY 8 TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­Private. 257-9101 LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN. SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 PITT GA'S DONALD x1724. NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME GAME. MIKE 0 1724 Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  Sell me your PITT stud call Scott 3586 AHOY MATIESII NEED 2 PITT AND 1 USC (STU OR GA) FOR OLD SHIPMATES COMING TO TOWN. BOB X4529 I NEED ONE BC TIX & MANY PITT TIX-STUDENT OR GA 271-7047  THEM. I DESPERATELY need 2 Pitt GA's Please call Josh at x3578. Will pay top dollar. FSU stu. tix. for sale, only SERIOUS ($$$) INQUIRIES please. Rob-4052 NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. MUST HAVEII CALL 272-7233.  (IN BOTH DINING HALLS) THURSDAY AND FRIDAY. WIN GREAT PRIZESIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIII LYONS VOLLEYBALL TOURN. JILZA-I wouldn't neglect you, so here is your personal adll Have a great dayll  
& PRICES! BAHAMAS. CANCUN,  CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194.  MBA STUDENT SEEKS 2 TICK­ 
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800­678-63861  PUS $225. M0.272-6306  4 Football nckets Notre Dame/BYU  ETS FOR FAMILY TO USC GAME. PLEASE CALL RICH X-4-4499  FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES. 277-1659.  Wouldn't you like to be a Huffer too?  
(801)798-2340 Evenings.  

~---­

Thursday, September 30, 1993 
Giants fall to the Rockies as Braves regain top spot 
inning and Fred McGriff and 
SAN FRANCISCO David Justice hit consecutive 

San Francisco wasted two solo homers in the third. bases-loaded opportunities and Tom Glavine (21-6) was Daryl Boston homered twice as roughed up early and wound the Colorado Rockies beat the up allowing all three runs and Giants 5-3 Wednesday and nine hits in 6 2-3 innings. knocked them out of first place Greg McMichael got out of in the NL West. bases-loaded jams in the eighth 
and ninth, gaining his 17th 

Colorado, which stopped the save in 19 chances. The Astros Giants' seven-game winning stranded 14 runners in all. streak, took a 5-1 lead in the Doug Drabek (9-18) was sixth against Jeff Brantley on tagged for five runs and seven Boston's second homer of the hits in three innings. game and 14th of the season. Expos 7, 
Steve Reed (9-5) got out a jam Marlins 1 in the fifth, and Darren Holmes got four outs for his 25th save. 
Salomon Torres (3-4) was MIAMI 
tagged for four runs and three Chris Nabholz (9-8) had a 
hits, walked four and struck out season-high seven strikeouts in 
one. five scoreless innings and 
Braves 6, Montreal turned a triple play as 
Astros 3 it clinched second place. 
Walt Weiss and Chris 
ATlANTA Hammond walked to start the 

Atlanta regained sole pos­third, and with the runners 
session of first place in the NL going on a 3-2 count, Chuck 
West as Damon Berryhill hit a Carr lined to third baseman 
three-run homer in the second Sean Berry. 
DOS Computer Users 
New Cluster Opening October 4th 
228.DeBartolo Hall 
Students from all colleges welcome. ...._ ...._ ...._ 
Groups receive preference over individuals. ~ ~ ~ 
Mondalr -Thursday, 8:00 pm -1:00am 

• • Sunday, 1:00 pm -1:00 am
• 

!aCampus Clusters GroupS Office of University Computing 
~­


The Observer 

Interested in writing for Accent? Already signed up to be an Accent Reporter? 
Whatever the case may be, 
You 're Invited! 

Accent Reporter meeting and traing sessions Thursday, Sept. 30 7:00PM 3rd floor LaFortune 
AMERICA'S No.1 COMEDY NITE CLUB 
1352 Scottsdale Mall • South Bend, IN • (219) 299-9999 
*Located on the Lower Level Next to Montgomery Wards * 
SEPT 29-0CT 3 STEVE SEAGREN You've seen him on showtime, now see him in person!! SHOWTIMES: WED & lliURS 8:00PM FRI & SAT 8:00 & 10:15 PM SUNDAY 8:00PM 
Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5303 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
P0'SY (I ~tth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 

51400 31 North 
1-800-328-0206

South Bend, IN 46637 
Friday & Saturday-7:00p.m. & 9:30p.m. Carroll Auditorium Admission: $2°0 
Hey Chrisl ~@[f) [f)~ ~ TI ~~ ®~~[ru@J@~ 
love From All 
Mom and Dod Fronk and Kathryn Kathleen, Elizabeth and Margaret Molly and Duffy, too 
page 11 

Navratilova to shut door on singles career 
By BOB GREENE Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Blow out the candles. Put away the presents. Martina Navratilova has postponed her retirement party for another year. 
The winningest player in pro­fessional tennis history, Navratilova said Wednesday that she has decided that 1994 will be her final year to play singles. 
"This is it -period," she said. "Next year will be my last year. It's time for me to move 
on." 
While she was emphatic about closing out her singles career, she left open the option to play doubles and mixed dou­bles after 1994. 
That's the same thing she said last year -and at the same place: Madison Square Garden. 
"Chances are next year will be my last year playing singles full time," Navratilova said last November following her loss in the Virginia Slims Championships fmal to Monica Seles. 
On Wednesday, she was defi­
nite. 
"Last year, I wasn't very 
sure," she said. "This time I 
have no qualms, no regrets." 
Navratilova still will play a 
full schedule for the remainder 
of this year and next, including 
the French Open, a clay court 
Grand Slam tournament she 
hasn't played since 1988. She 
said she would skip January's 
Australian Open because "it's 
too early in the year." 
Her plans after tennis are 
"all blurry right now," she 
said. "It's an end to a big part 
of my life. I'm not sad. I'm 
happy. I've been so lucky -20 
years plus at the top of my pro­
fession." 
Navratilova made her an­
nouncement in New York be­
cause, following her U.S. Open 
loss this month, she promised 
reporters she would let them 
know as soon as she had 
reached a decision. 
"There's no way to know when is the right time to re­tire," she said. Then, noting that knee surgery has enabled her to regain her mobility, she said, "Now I'm retiring because I want to, not because I have to." 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
to start the second half. Freshman Kate Fisher scored her first collegiate goal 8:45 into the half. The goal was unassisted from 30 yards out as Fisher rocketed a left footed shot into the upper left corner of the net. 
"It was awesome to score," exclaimed Fisher. 
"It was good to see Kate and Stacia Masters come off the bench and play well," said Petrucelli. "They sparked us, 
-
which was a good sign." Masters, a freshman, had two assists in the game. 
"Stacia and I come off the bench to give the team an extra push," said Fisher. "Our role is to help give the team some energy on the field. My goal created some energy for the rest of the team." 
~----~----------------------~--------------------~----------------~-------------------------------------~ --­
Thursday, September 30, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
Lewis to face PW for top spot in Blue Division 
Nike to deal with unforseen probs 
ByBOBBAUM Associaled Press 
BEAVERTON, Ore. 

The man who runs Nike says that of all the recent troubles facing his company, the prob­lems caused by the Nike Town Fab 40 Shootout bother him the most. 
Stock prices are way down, the company's six-year streak of record earnings is coming to an end and 300 to 400 employ­ees are being laid ofT. 
But the problems caused by the series of prep basketball all-star games Sept. 10-12 at Beaverton are especially dis­turbing, Nike chairman Phil Knight said in an interview at the company's headquarters. 
Participation in the games has threatened the high school athletic eligibility of 37 players from 19 states. 
"We obviously did some things that were a little care­less and got some kids in trou­ble," Knight said. 
The players violated eligibili­ty rules of their state associa­tions and Nike has been con­tacting each organization to try to clear them. 
"We're down now to where we think there are only three states where there's still no decision," Knight said. 
Nike spokesman Keith Peters said Wednesday that no deci­sion has been made in Illinois, Tennessee and Florida. In some other states, no official decision may have been made but Nike officials are optimistic those players will be cleared to compete, he said. 
"But," Knight said, "if even one player is ineligible, we're going to feel bad." 
The rule that's causing the most problems, Knight said, is the one that prohibits players from accepting $100 gift cer­tificates to Nike's employee store. 
"That one I have a little more sympathy for our people on," Knight said. 
He said company officials ini­tially planned to allow the play­ers only to shop at the store, which offers the same prices that are charged to dealers. 


· Anyone intereste Jp.coacblnl youth hockey for the 

ND youtb hockey l.eague. •st 
ebbitl at 277-7519.' . ·· ..c'"' 
The Domer Run featuring 3 and 6 mile runs will he held on Saturday, October 2. at lOam at Stepan Center. There a $5 adavance registratio 
ee at the RecSports office and a $6 fee on the day of the race, For more information, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
A horseback riding day is planned for Sunday, October 
10. A bus will depart every hour from 10:30 until 2:30. The

-
fee is $12 per person which includes transportation. Those interested should register in advance in the RecSports office by 5pm on Thursday, October 
7. The maximum number pe 

ide is 10. For more informa­tion, call RecSports at 631· 
Sailing Club will hold a 
meeting on Thursday, eptemher 30, at 7pm in the oat house on Saint Joseph's 
e. Call Tucker at 4~1772 th guestions. Fellowship of Christian 
thletes will meet Thursday at pro in the basement of Farley. 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
Sporu Wriler 
Lewis Hall and Pasquerilla West, both undefeated after two games, will meet tonight to determine the leader of the Blue Division in the women's Interhall standings. With #2 
P.W. 
facing #3 Lewis, power poll rankings are also on the line, and the winner will close in on top-ranked Badin. 

In spite of the high stakes, the 

P.W. 
squad remains focused 



Gold Division 1. Badin (2-0) 
3. 4. -1 5. 6. 
1. 2. 3. 4.P. ) 5. Farley (0-2) 6. Knott (0-2) 


and unphased by the pressure. "Most of our team members are seniors, and we're used to being the team to beat," said four-year veteran Jenny Marten. "They (Lewis) were out scouting us this week at practice, so we put in some new stuff." 
Lewis has also been prepar­ing for the showdown with P.W. and anticipates a close contest. "It will be a tough game," said Lewis captain Julie Fleck. "If our defense plays well, and our offense executes its plays, then we should have no problem." 
So far this season, the Lewis defense has been solid, allow­ing no points, and the offense has been consistent. However, 
P.W. has earned two shutouts as well and their offense, sparked by the play of star quarterback Bethany Riddel, has been explosive, scoring five touchdowns in two games. 
Lewis is fully aware of the offensive threat posed by Riddel. "Our defense is ready to pressure the quarterback and contain her," attested Fleck. 
"Our offensive line is really good, and Bethany can outrun anyone, so if that's their goal, then I think they're going to have trouble," responded Marten. Clearly, these evenly matched teams will have a tough game. 
Seig&ied vs. Farley 
Seigfried Hall, inspired after their 26-0 defeat of Knott Hall, is confident as they prepare to face Farley. Farley knows they will have to play tough in order to beat the pumped-up Seigfried squad. 
"Everything has fallen into place for us, so we're going to continue to do what we've done so far," said Seigfried quarter­back Angi Luzio. "Practice has gone really well, and now our main concern is getting every­one to play, because everyone has talent." 
Farley must deal with more serious concerns. So far they are scoreless and winless, but they have not given up hope. "We're excited about the game, and we're hoping to get some points on the board and post our first win," stated co-captain Gretchen Ganc. 
Ernst & Young/Chicago is located in the Sears Tower, a state-of-the-art building. Remote access by laptop computer to vital client and regulatory information allows each of our professionals to do their work from wherever they work best. In their offices. At client locations. Commuting. Even at home. 

By organizing our client service teams by industry, instead of discipline, we continue to be pioneers in the area of integrated services. 
For an accurate profile of the future of professional services, look to Ernst & Young/Chicago. Here, a team of progressive professionals is redefining a new standard of service excellence. 
So, if you are looking to the future, may we suggest a firm that's already there. Ernst & Young/Chicago. 
AUDIT, TAX AND MANAGEMENT CONSULTING October 6 Presentation & Reception Alumni Senior Club, 7:00pm October 7 and 8 
Campus Interviews 
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING November 9 
Campus Interviews 
S!/ ERNST& YOUNG 
An equal opportunity employer 
"Our goal is to get on the scoreboard," seconded Farley's other captain, Lisa Dvorchek. "We just want to get a touch­down." 
Farley will need this positive attitude in order to handle a tough Seigfried defense, which has allowed only twelve points this season. 
Seigfried must use its momentum to carry them past a determined Farley team. 
P.E. vs. Knott 
In other Blue League action, Pasquerilla East(l-1) will play Knott Hall, a team which has suffered two demoralizing loss­es so far this season. However, P.E., the clear favorite, must recover from a spanking by 
rival  P.W.,  as  well  as  two  
injuries  as  they  head  into  
Thursday night's game.  

After their 14-0 loss to P.W. on Sunday, P.E. knows they have room for improvement. "We played pretty well, they just seemed to be a lot quick­er," commented team captain Nina DeLorenzo. 
see INTERHALL I page 14 
' 
Look 
' Ahead Or Get Left Behind 

Thursday, September 30, 1993 The Observer. SPORTS page 13 
Stanford and Flanner to 
Zahm and Carroll go head to head 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
For the first time since a playoff controversy two years ago, Zahm (0-0-1) goes up against Carroll (0-0-1). Neither team scored a point last week­end as Zahm tied Cavanaugh and Carroll deadlocked St. Ed's. 
This game bears an added significance because of the bad feelings between the two dorms concerning Carroll's forfeit two years ago. Carroll beat Zahm 13-10 in a semifinal playoff game, but had to forfeit the game because they used ineligi­ble players from Holy Cross College. As a result, Zahm played Keenan in the stadium for the title. 
Although Zahm lost that game two years ago, the Rabid Bats captured the crown last season against Keenan. Carroll is looking to avenge that forfeit game with a win on Sunday. 
"It's a big game for all of us," commented Carroll sophomore Kurt Krebs. "We're really look­ing forward to it." 
"Everyone's taking the game very seriously," continued Krebs. 
Carroll's defense had five interceptions last week, but they were not able to sustain drives offensively. 
"Our line has to block better," said Krebs. "On defense, we need to hit harder, because Zahm hits hard." 
Lante Corporation 
Premier Microcomputer Services 

Sometimes the right solution isn't obvious. Sometimes the obvious solution isn't right. 


Lante Corporation, an industry leader in the design, development and implementation ofClient/Server business solutions, will be on campus recruiting Monday October 4, 1993. Lante Corporation invites all interviewees, and any interested students, to an informal presentation from 7:00 to 9:00p.m. on Sunday October 3, ] 993 in the Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
Lante. 
When the obvious isn't. 

ROBERT. KENNEDY JR. 
As for Zahm, they are coming off a hard fought tie against 
clash in the Gold League 
rival Cavanaugh. "We need to develop an offense and get our passing game in order," said Zahm senior captain Paul Shuga. "We don't have a rhythm and we haven't gelled yet offensively." 
Sorin vs St. Ed's 
In a historic dorm battle, St. 
Ed's (0-0-1) plays Sorin (0-1). 
St. Ed's is riding high after a 
scoreless tie with Carroll last 
weekend. It was the first time 
in four years that St. Ed's did 
not lose in a game. Sorin will 
try to rebound from a 14-6 loss 
to Fisher. 
"The tie was a really good 
morale booster," said St. Ed's 
sophomore Mike Burke. 
"Everyone's excited about foot­
ball in the dorm." ; On offense, St. Ed's needs ·better execution. "Our defense 
is solid," commented Burke. " 
We just need to improve offen­
sively." 

Sorin senior captain Scott 
Curtis thinks being ready to 
play will be the key. "They'll be 
ready, so we need to counteract 
their emotion," said Curtis. 
Defensively, Curtis says the 
Otters can't give up any big 
plays. "We need to sustain our 
drives offensively and stop the 
big play to win the game." 
Fisher vs. Alumni 
Fisher (1-0) faces off against 
Alumni (0-0) in a South Quad 
matchup. Fisher is coming off a 
14-6 win against Sorin, while 
Alumni plays their first game 
after receiving a bye last week. 
Fisher sophomore quarter­
back Jeff Beiver threw two 
touchdowns passes in the vic­
tory. Fisher's defense was able 
to hold on to the lead against 
Sorin for the whole second half. 
Alumni coach Paul Zachlin 
knows Fisher's offense is good. 
"We have to respect their of­
fense," he said. 

_'H\:_ 
S/\11'\11 MAJ~v·s COlli Cl 
1'\0RffiU CtnT tR
THURSDAY OCTOBER 7 
fOR lttt Gl R T S 
The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana 
7:30PM STEPAN 

and the Saint Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs present

• 
$3 


india 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
dance ensemble 
Wednesday, October 6, 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlln Auditorium Tickets $12* 
*Discounts for senior citizens, students and groups. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard, Discover orders and ticket information at 2191284-4626. 
. e u
Srunt Mary's Co ege 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
7-6 in the fourth quarter, but the Dillon defense blocked a Flanner punt and brought the ball in for the touchdown. 
"We need to go right at Stan­ford," said Flanner captain Brian Parker when asked about the upcoming clash with Stanford, "In order to win, we need to eliminate the mental mistakes that plagued us in the Dillon game." 
Morrissey vs. Grace 

This Sunday, No. 6 Morrissey (1-0) looks to continue their winnings ways when they face the interhall squad from Grace. Last week Morrissey faced Off­Campus, which proved to be a defensive battle. Both teams remained scoreless until the last seconds of the game. Morrissey capitalized on a fum­ble by Off-Campus deep in their own territory and Justin Kruer put the ball in on a one-yard run. 
No. 12 Grace (0-1) looks to rebound this Sunday from a 24­0 thrashing by No. 1 Stanford. In the game the Grace offense was shutdown and only man­aged two first downs. The Grace defense was also riddled by the Stanford offense, which had a total of 280 yards. 
Dillon vs. Keenan 

In their frrst game of the sea­son, the Dillon defense showed that they can win games just as well as the offense. In the fourth quarter, Joe Bergan re­covered the blocked punt and put it in the endzone for the touchdown. The Dillon offense was also strung. Early in the game it mounted a 60-yard drive for a rushing touchdown by Mike Schreck. 
Keenan, who had a bye ljlst week, looks to the start off the season with a victory over No. 5 Dillon (1-0). 
"We will be fresh (coming off a bye week)," said Keenan cap­tain Matt Makowski, "The week off didn't hurt us." 
Makowski also feels that this team is the strongest that NR Keenan (0-0) has fielded in a few years, especially on the defensive side. 
By WARREN JUNIUM Sports Writer 
The opening game of the gold league this weekend pits No. 1 Stanford (1-0) versus No.8 Flanner (0-1). Stanford is com­ing off an impressive 26-0 vic­tory over No. 12 Grace last Sunday. 
In that game, Stanford racked up 280 yards of offense, with wide receiver Mike Miller lead­ing the way with 4 grabs for 81 yards and a touchdown. The Stanford defense was equally impressive as the offense, limit­ing Grace to just two first downs. 
Flanner lost to No. 5 Dillon last week. Flanner was ahead 

8. Planner (0-l);Ar 9. Off-Campus (0-1) 
10. 
St. Ed's (0-0-1) 

11. 
Carroll ( 0-0-1) 


-


The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 30, 1993 
the first half as quarterback r----------==--------....;.---------------------------~
Julie Byrd threw to Wendy 
COLUMJmS. Ohio 
A ,rear· ap. Ohio S~ was 3~0. ranked 1Uh and had a week otT leading into the 'J,'en season. ;&;. ,Jiitt 
The Buc:keyes promptly fell flat on their faces, losing the next two games. 
This time around, Ohio Is qain perfect through three ;, games and hal enJoyed a week oft' as it commences Big Ten play against Northwestern Sanrrday. . 
But players and coaches swear that's where the simi· ' la.rities to t.st S&&Son stop. ' 
"The only ones who rJe&m to be worried about what hap-' paned last year are the people, outside the football team.'f' said tailback Raymont Harris. "We're not worried about any letdown. We've worked too bard. and we realize what we've got to do to attain our goals." 
Ohio State lost 20-16 at Wisconsin last year. 
"People keep bringing up what happened to us at Wisconsin last year. We're not even thinking about that," Harris said. 

Women's Wrap 
continued from page 16 
tough. "We were really proud of our defense. They did every­thing we wanted them to," said Breen-Phillips' coach Mike MeKelvy. 
The Howard team has al­ready eclipsed last year's record with wins in each of their first two games. "We've improved a lot from last sea­son's one win," said sophomore Sarah Cashore. 
The coaches attribute the team's success to both the im­proved defense and offensive quickness. "We have solidified our defense, and we have a strong passing game." stated Howard coach Brian Welford. 
Lyons 26, Pangborn 6 
Eighth-ranked Lyons trounced last-place Pangborn last night. scoring quickly in 
Holthaus for the first touch­down. After Lyons converted the extra point, Pangborn pushed the ball up the field as quarterback Mary Kraft ran it in for the first score. The extra point failed, making the score 7-6. 
Lyons came back to score .another touchdown as Byrd ran in her second score. The last two touchdowns were also scored by Holthaus and Byrd, bringing the score to 26-6. 
The team's overall success was due to the aggressiveness of both the offense and defense. 

"Our offensive blocks were great. We had a high-scoring game," wide receiver Melissa Cook stated. "We need to be aggressive in all aspects of the -game." 
Badin 18, Walsh 0 
Undefeated and top-ranked Badin shut-out ninth-ranked Walsh on the strength of three second-half touchdowns. 
Mter the scoreless first half, senior Aurelie Gallagher ran in for the first six points, and fol­lowed it up with a second touchdown to make it 12-0. 
his down at Wi!~coJnsiJrf 9.r $..Jifain5t 
Illinois because inJI~rif~s ~~nd mistakes helP.ed .·. 
Buckeyes. )F 
But last week ·rn.·,""'t.;.. players know he repeat. 
After a long run, sophomore Tina Fuoco scored the third and fmal touchdown, bring the score to 18-0. 
The Badin defense played well, intercepting five Walsh passes. Sophomore Shelly Dil­lenburger had three intercep­tions, and junior Aimee Walsh had one pick. 
The Walsh offense played admirably, despite the lack of points on the scoreboard, while the defense occupied the field most of the time, playing tough against Badin's offense. 
"Our defense was in pretty much the whole game. They played really well," said Walsh co-captain Erin Nicholas. 
Both teams were forced to play in the traditional rainy weather of Notre Dame, and the offense suffered. 
"We played our hearts out. We'll keep our heads up and bounce back against Breen­Philips on Sunday," said Walsh co-captain Molly McShane. 
"We definitely didn't show what we were capable of," added Nicholas. 

Post-game brawl results in suspensions 
By DAVID DROSCHAK Associated Press 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Shawn Hocker saw last weekend's North Carolina­North Carolina State brawl from a different perspective than most. 
The two schools, separated by 30 miles, were involved in a helmet swinging fight just before halftime on Saturday after Tar Heels quarterback Jason Stanicek was pushed into the North Carolina bench. 
"Despite the publicity that these things have gotten, as a whole the game Saturday was a lot milder than it has been in the past," said Hocker, a senior offensive lineman for the Tar Heels. "There has been a lot more pushing and shoving and finger-pointing and mouthing off in the past than what hap­pened Saturday." 
Two assistant coaches -Ted Cain of N.C. State and Donnie Thompson of North Carolina ­were suspended Monday for one game following their postgame fight. 
"In a game of cross-town rivals, that much emotion doesn't take much to spark something," Hocker said. 
Tar Heels coach Mack Brown, who didn't see the fight between the two assistant coaches, said film of the inci­
dent  was  somewhat  en­ 
couraging.  
"I thought everyone  sur­ 

rounding that scuffle after the game did an unbelievable job of making sure it didn't get any 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 
SYRACUSE ABROAD Something to write home about! 
• Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, 
r·... 


France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain 
• 
Prior foreign language not always necessary 

• 
SU credit 

• 
Field trips/traveling seminars 

• 
Internships 

• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home or limited aparunent placements 


bigger or any worse than it remained silent Tuesday. was," Brown said Tuesday. Brown and Tar Heels athletic "There were coaches on both director John Swofford said it sides and players on both sides was their understanding that that were pulling people away the issue was closed and no ... and I think that is phenome­comments would be made from nal for people to respond under either parties following pressure like they responded. Sunday's meeting with Atlantic 
Coast Conference commissioner 

"As soon as the coaches' Gene Corrigan. scuffle was over, there were Cain, with his voice cracking players and coaches still shak­at times Monday, insisted the ing hands and patting each fight wasn't his fault. other on the back. That's a Swofford said Thompson great compliment to 99 percent doesn't need to defend himself. of the people involved on "Donnie has no desire to do Saturday." that, nor do we have any desire 
While Cain addressed the for him to do that," Swofford media Monday, Thompson said. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Notre Dame Men's Soccer-----­
hosts The Notre Dame Classic Friday 10/1 ND vs. South Carolina Saturday 10/2 ND vs. Penn State Both games at 8:00 pm on Alumni Field FREE Admission with Blue and Gold Card::::...._-.,... 
#18 Notre Dame Women's Tennis---­hosts the Eck Classic 10/1 & 2 Start time: 10:00 am***All Day Courtney Courts/Eck Pavilion 
.C\ 

Notre Dame Cross Country -lt 
hosts the Notre Dame Invitational ' Friday 10/1 Women 4:15 Men 5:00 \ Burke Memorial Golf Course ----, 

SUITCHSE PHRTY 
Thursday, September 30th Senior Bar, 9pm .· . . . Tickets $10 .: · (/ 
\[!]-----------------------------~-~!!! Win an all-eHpenses paid trip to see the Irish stomp Stanford! Tickets are on sale now at the Lafortune info desk: 
Or through Off-campUS reps: 
Campus Ulew: Pat Broderick Castle Point: H.J. Mencias House: John Hermanson 
Indian Springs: Beth Bolger Lafayette Square: Susan Hassas Dale Hill: Turtle Creek: 
_,. 
(:::· 
c~.<ss or 1e•• 

Pizza and 
"'beuerages~~ :: included! ../ T" k .1 bl 
:/ lC ets avat a e :~ at the door. 
·\ Raffle at 11:45 
\ GOODLUCK! 
\
\ \\& 

Thursday, September 30, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATTERSON  
If ~Ef>..'II:H I'S GOOD, MD IF I l\I<.E TD BE Bf>.D, \-loW AM I SUPPt5t.D 1tl ~£ 1-1 r>-.1>1"1 1\-\ERE '?  1-lON Will ~OV GE\ TO 1-\Ef>..'IH\ If '!OJ l\Kt: m Bt: BP..D !"  LHS SP..'( r DIDN'T {)0 W\-1"-T I WANTDJ TO Do.  SUPPo-sE I LED f.. BL"-MELE5S LIFE! SUPPoSE I DENIED ttl'! TR\l£ 'i>"-RI( Nf\\URt.!  nA. NOT SVRE I \-\~IJ'C TI-l"'T l'fi\J(_\-1 \1-\"'GIN~TI~.  M~'i&E 1-\EA'IEN I'S "­PU\C~ 'N\-ltRE '(OIJ'Rt. ALLOWED TO BE BAD•  


;.-­
--=-=-_--~ / )\ 
~----------­
~--­


"Hey. Quit complaining ..•. We a/llive out in the sticks." 
OF INTEREST 

Americans consume 20 to 25 times more sodium than they need, and sodium can contribute to high blood pressure in sensitive individuals says the American Heart Association. 
DINING HALL 


I OUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 This (girl), to Brutus 5 Lifts for 
kanonen 10 Razorback, e.g. 13 Young state 14 N.Y.S.E. 
acronym 15 Four-star 16 Bill, once 19 Dejeuner dish 20 "--Fair." 
1933 song 21 Canonized Fr. 
women 22 Impish one 23 Billers' 
companions? 26 Barbara's successor 28Yea-­(voter's choice) 
29 Inaugural ball, 47 Scene of 
e.g. destruction 30 Flaccid 51 Presidential 32 Ran into address 33 Status of 16 53 Pamplona rahs 
Across's mother 54 Program listing 
at his birth 34 Sgt. or cpl. 35 Scrooge-like 
utterances 37 U.S. composer Charles -­38 "Pomp and Circumstance" composer 40 Does 
cryptography 42 Eleve's milieu 43 Grass cutter 44"--There 
Eyes," 1930 tune 45 Renee of the silent screen 
55 Set at a slant 56 Algerian ruler of 
yore 57 Insignificant 58 V.P.'s home 
state 
DOWN 
1 Ouasimodo's 
creator 2 Speck 3 Projecting edge 4 Socks tender 5 Spouses of 
oncles 6 Moral flaws 7 Area equaling 
43,560 square 
feet

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Elephant-eating bird of folklore

S C 0 T F A T~E T H 0 S 
9 Frankish legal 

LASH RUHR WHERE 
code

I R A E A R E A E E R I E 
tO Where 16 

DOGDAYAFTERNOON 
Across was R T-l EA. 1-reared 
ATBAY.RUG 

11 "-you G • 0 L I D)ts H A M E noblest THEORGANIZ,TION 
English!": Shak. 12 Courteous chap 

lii!~;"A.EGOS 15 Vegetable
SYR.DRAFT 
companionL. A PE-R A B B I 
17 Put before a

L A C A G E A U X F 0 L L E S 
new jury 

A R E Y E~C M E K A R l 
18 Type abbr. 

S I R E N R E A L E Z R A 
22 Missile sites 

SABRE SST REAM 
23 Grooming aid 


DAVE KELLETT 
W"AT 11\E 1-\EC.K A(Z.E ~o'-'l>oo,..r.?! 
I 

24 Mountain 39 Beat; censure 46Removean erratum
nymph 41 Has a 
47-Hedin,
25 Where deficit credit-card Gobi explorer reducers focus? balance 48 Success, e.g. 
26 Where the 42 Sea song 49TiedAcheron flowed 
44 Acknowledge 
50 Stitched 
27 Certain appreciatively 
52 Age of 16 residences, 
45 Like two peas in Across on Aug.
initially 

19inMMII 29 Donor 31 Study steadily 
Get answers to any three clues
33 Amazed; na'ive 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
36 Shows disdain 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
38 Fragrant resin 
ACOUSTIC CAFE THURSDAY NIGHTS 9-12 PM In the Huddle 

"THE FREr~CH CONNECTION" SHOWING AT MONTGOMERY THEATRE $1 8PM and 1 0:30pm 
,.-B.E"'.. R_. T--K.._... E--·N·-·N·E--·-n·Y.,. JR··-
Ro,_ ' :' ___ ) .::"'~ _:::__ :_:~ ~--~-.. -~-. . : /' ' ...:.:__._.; . ; }_ j --~-----'-:___,_/' . / ,,r ~--··:• ., 
THURS. OCT.7 $3 STEPAN 

TICKErS AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
••., ......................... •~•," ... ~'-'-"t..·~~o•.:<~t.• •., Fr.rllr••tr.ll..ll....... _.. ••._ ••• <1·········-····..., .......... _.., ...... ...,,. ...... _., ..._ ,. ......... ' • ...... -.:=-....o.\,o.4,__31,..._~ ..... ~'-"-"-"!..·-,_"' ·.·..,··.'-1oo111i1.'5o.11o." 
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, September 30, 1993 
Irish less than perfect against Wright St. 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA her 6th goal of the season 56 Sporu Writer seconds later. It was the frrst of two goals on the day for Lester. Letdown? Looking ahead? Freshman Cindy Daws and These words can be used to junior Jodi Hartwig assisted on 
describe the Notre Dame the score. women's soccer team per­"We can make excuses, but formance in yesterday after­we didn't play well," said .oqon's 4-1 victory over Wright Lester. "Playing that way could State. Notre Dame, ranked No. have been dangerous for us. 3 in the nation, might have Fortunately, we were able to entered the score the goals that we needed game against to." the 2-6 ~ The Irish did manage 26 Raiders by shots on goal, while freshman looking ahead goalie Jen Renola only had to
tr::J 
to their trip to ~ make two saves. At halftime, the score was
California this li·-'·.. ~ _­
weekend. _. ~ tied 1-1 as Wright State con­"We didn't ·· ~---~ tained the explosive Irish of­play well at ' fense. Notre Dame had 14 shots 
all," said Irish Chris Petrucelli 
on goal in the first half, but coach Chris only converted once. Petrucelli. "I thought Wright State was "But when you score four goals, very organized," said Petrucelli. you have a good chance to "They had a very good game win." plan, which was to be defensive 
However, Notre Dame won and try to sneak a goal in and their 14th straight game and hang on." has a season record of 9-0. "Notre Dame is an excellent 
"We gave them a little too team," said Wright State's much respect," commented coach Hylton Dayes. "They're senior co-captain Andi Kurek. the best team we've played all "We've played some tough year and they didn't have a teams the last few weeks and good day today." we had a slight letdown today." "My team has been struggling 
Wright State's Teresa Ruff all year and we just wanted to shocked the Irish by scoring come out and battle,"continued the game's first goal with Dayes. "We wanted to give a 
21:38 minutes left in the first good showing for ourselves." half. The goal seemed to wake After the scoreless first half, the Irish up momentarily. Notre Dame came out frred up 
Senior co-captain Alison Lester responded by scoring 

see SOCCER I page 11 Senior Alison Lester led the Irish to victory with two goals last night. 

SMC to face tough match against Hope 
By TARA KRULL  O'Connell's skills were greatly  
SportS Writer  missed while she was in Ireland.  
"The chances of us reaching  
Senior Molly O'Connell has  tournament play would have  
been a key player for the St.  been much greater that year with  
Mary's soccer team since her  Molly's contributions."  
freshman year. The team will  As a senior, Molly is once again  
count on her contributions in  starting for the Belles and play­ 
tomorrow's match against Hope  ing the role of one of the team's  
College.  captains as well. As far as goals  
for this season, O'Connell wants  
According to Belles' coach Tom  to help the team out as much as  
VanMeter, O'Connell brings a lot  she can to finish with a winning  
of "excitement and leadership" to  record. She also noted that the  
the playing field with her.  team needs to work on "remain­ 
"Her enthusiasm shows that  ing in the game."  
she truly loves the game," he  
said. "You can see it in her as she  "We need to play two solid  
plays. It becomes infectious."  halves. We come on real strong  
Following in her family's foot­ in the beginning and fade as the  
steps, O'Connell began playing  game moves along," she added.  
soccer in the seventh grade. She  This will be important as the  
played through high school and  Belles face Hope College to­ 
continued her soccer career with  morrow. The team defeated  
the Belles. Both her brother and  Hope last year, but tomorrow's  
her sister play soccer at the colle­ match will pose a challenge for  
giate level as well.  the 3-4 Belles, according to  
During her sophomore year at  VanMeter.  
St. Mary's, Molly studied abroad  "We're coming off two 1-0 loss­ 
in Ireland. Although she played  es," he said. "We need to keep  
for the St. Patrick's College soc­ our spirits up and play the game  
cer team while in Maynooth,  together the best we can as a  
O'Connell missed playing with  team."  
her teammates for the Belles.  O'Connell hopes that she can  
assist the Belles return to a win­ 
"Soccer is one of the best  ning season tomorrow with a win  
aspects of St. Mary's for me," she  against Hope.  
said. "Most of my good friends  "As a senior, I want to have a  
are on the team with me."  good time and help the team out  
The Obeervar/Brian McDonough  VanMeter commented that  as much as I can."  

Senior Megan Dalsaso and the Belles face Hope College tonight at home. 

Women's lnterhall Lewis takes on PW for top spot in the Blue Division. see page 12 

Inside SPORTS 

SMC Volleyball The Belles tough defense aids in victory over Hope College. 
see page 11 

Howard tops BP as 
•

two-potnt conversion fails 
By CRISTINA CORONADO Sporu Writer 
The 8:00 game last night between undefeat­ed Howard Hall and fifth~ranked Breen~ Phillips was won on extra points, as both teams scored three touchdowns apiece and Howard won 20·18. 
Breen·Phillips was the first team to put points on the scoreboard, as quarterback Kim Smith threw to receiver Michele Hurst for the first touchdown. The extra point was unsuc­cessful, keeping the score at 6-0. 
The Howard women refused to stay down, and proceHded to score their first touchdown. Quarterback Carrie Mouritsen threw to Kim Harter. who ran through the cones to tie the score. They also missed the extra point. 
Howard's second touchdown was a pass from quarterback Sue Wassil to Mouritsen, and the extra point was scored by Harter. The third touchdown was also thrown by Wassil to Mouritsen, and the extra point was scored by Sarah Donnelly. 
Breen-Philips went on to score a second touchdown on another pass from Smith to Hurst, but again did not complete the extra point. The last six points of the game were scored when Smith completed a bomb to receiver Katie McNally, bringing the score to 20-18. .· 
Defensively, Breen-Philips was extremely 

see WOMEN'S WRAP I page 14 


Men's lnterhalJ No. 1 Stanford to take on No.6 Planner. see page 13 



