The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 94 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Panel addresses racism at ND 
By CAROLINE CLARKE News Writer 
Racism is a powerful, nega­tive force, and it feeds on big­otry, prejudice and feelings of insecurity, according to Angela Borelli. 
St. Edward's Hall hosted an open forum with a panel of three speakers b~gan the evening by sharing racial inci­dents and personal anecdotes reflecting on their experiences at the University. 
Borelli, Assistant Professional Specialist of Romance Lan­guage and Literature, was joined by Roland Smith, the Executive Assistant to the President of the University, and Iris Outlaw, Director of Minority Affairs. 
Borelli said that racism exists at Notre Dame in various, often subtle forms. 
She noted that several sum­mers ago, she held a workshop 
• See insert on Race Relations at Notre Dame 
on cultural mversny for Notre Dame professors intended to address racial problems within the community 
She said she saw two ex­tremes. 
The first was the professor who was "pure of heart." He fancied himself as a knight in shining armor pledging to fight all racism, according to Borelli. The other extreme was the professor who was concerned about the minorities who at­tended his classes. 
Some professors claimed that minority students were aca­demically inept because of inadequate backgrounds, and were therefore destined to flunk. 
Outlaw encouraged students to begin implementing changes within the residence halls. 
Borelli further cited instances of subtle discrimination in the residence halls at Notre Dame. 
An hispanic student who was cooking tacos and enchiladas was harassed by a hall rector, who found the smell "offensive." 
In another incident, when a piece of lounge furniture was found missing, the rector initi­ated a search of the rooms of minority students, said Borelli. 
Such examples show that racism is not limited to making slurs and physical confronta­tions, according to Borelli. 
Smith likened Notre Dame's campus to a beautiful garden that it rests upon an old battle­field riddled with latent mine­fields. He said that those with a sense of history of the battle­field will proceed with caution, while others, armed with little or no sense of history, will set off the mines. The psychological "landmines" we can unwittingly set off can have· dire 
see PANEL I page 4 
JPW set 
for this 
weekend 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
The Junior Parents Week· end (JPW) will kick off Feb. 19-21 to welcome memb'ers of the junior class and their parents, and will include some changes from previous years, according to Laura Niemann, JPW chairperson. 
The festivities will com­mence Friday afternoon with a hospitality room in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center, providing refreshments and relaxation for juniors and their parents, said Niemann. 
The campus band "Bughaus" will provide the musical atmosphere during the traditional Friday night Gala at the Joyce A.C.C., which will include dancing, food and a cash bar, Niemann said. 
Recruiting a campus band to play at the Gala instead of a professional band from Chicago is one of the changes the Executive Committee implemented this year for JPW, according to Niemann. 
"Junior Parents' Weekend will be a nice opportunity to display the musical talent here at Notre Dame," she said. 
Not only will the parents re· ceive a taste of the campus musical talent, but the col­leges of Arts and Letters, Business, Science and Engi­neering will sponsor colle· giate workshops Saturday morning to introduce parents to the various colleges, she said. 
Juniors' parents will meet with professors and listen to speeches from the deans of each college. 
"These workshops will en· able students to interact with their professors on a less structured level and give students a chance to show their parents the academic 
see JPW 1page 4 
Volunteers being accepted for Christmas in April project 
By JOHN LUCAS News Writer 
Volunteers for the commu­nity service program Christmas In April are being accepted in the Hesburgh Library Con­course until 8 p.m. Thursday evening. 
Christmas In April in this area is a community improve­ment project that relies on vol­unteers and students from the South Bend and Notre Dame areas to help repair and im­prove homes in local neighbor­hoods. The event takes place from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. on April 17. 
Students volunteering their time can expect to be involved in one of a variety of projects including yard work, painting and general home improve­ment work. 
According to volunteer Fr. Bill Seetch, a student may sign up by bringing in the names of as many as seven friends who would be willing to work to­gether. The volunteering stu­
see APRIU page 4 

Observer general board named 
Observer Staff Report 
Observer Editor-in-Chief-elect David Kinney announced the members of the 1993-94 General Board yesterday. 
The new board members will assume their duties immedi­ately after Spring Break. 
Joining 1993-94 Managing Editor Kevin Hardman and Business Manager Brian Kennedy are editorial board members: 
• 
Meredith McCullough, news editor. McCullough is a junior government major from Hous­ton, Texas. She lives in Badin Hall and is currently associate news editor. 

• 
George Dohrmann, sports editor. Dohrmann is a sopho­more American studies major from Stockton, Calif. He is a resident of Dillon Hall and is currently a sports copy editor. 

• 
Kenya Johnson, accent edi­tor. Johnson is a junior Ameri­can studies major from Corona, Calif. She is a resident of Pas­querilla East and is currently 


assistant accent editor and a news copy editor. 
• 
Jake Peters, photo editor. Peters is a sophomore market­ing major from Lake Forest, Ill. A resident of Morrissey Hall, he is currently a staff photogra­pher. 

• 
Jennifer Habrych, Saint Mary's editor. Habrych, a junior communications and political science major at Saint Mary's, is from Toledo, Ohio. She lives in Holy Cross Hall and is currently an assistant news editor. 

• 
Rolando de Aguiar, view­point editor. De Aguiar is a ju­nior anthropology major from Longwood, Fla. He lives at Tur­tle Creek Apartments and is currently associate sports edi­tor. 


Members of the Operations Board are: 
• Anne Heroman, advertising manager. Heroman, a junior marketing and management major at Saint Mary's, is from Baton Rouge, La. She lives in 
see BOARD I page 4 

Clinton: Expect higher taxes but 'Raw Pain' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -On ---------­
the eve of addressing • Health care tax I page 7 Congress. President Clinton • Viewer reaction I page 7 tried to smooth the way • Worker sacrifice/page 7 TQ:esd~y for an economic ChnUiii shrugged olf tne ~ustent~ plan that woul~ drop. saying, "The people in ~pose htg~er taxes on farm-the stock market have known hes makmg more than in general all along what was 
$?0,000 but reserve. the going to be in the program btgg~st blow for Amert.cans and the stock market's gone e~;nm¥ $100,000 or aboye. up markedly since the 
I thmk that when you see electi " the whole program, it won't be on. bl' l d 
aw pain " Clinton said. "I Senate R~pu ICan ea er 
rh. · ' . d 1 · Bob Dole srud the market was 
t m~ most mt d e-class reacting to Clinton's speech Amencans, when they look at Monday night. "Dropping like the ~osts P.lus the benefits, a rock;' Dole said. "Hold onto they re gomg ,to be much, your wallets." 
much better off. .. The president will go before ~all ~treet was Jittery about a joint session of Congress Clintons plan. The stock~ar-with a nationally televised ket tumbled nea~ly 83 pmnts speech at 9 p.m. Wednesday to on fears that hJ~her taxes explain details of hi $500 
would short-ctrcuit an . . . s 
economic revival and would billion pla? of tax mcreases not be accompanied by deep and spendmg cuts over four cuts in government spending. see CLINTON 1page 4 
page 2 Wednesday, February 17,1993 
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
otta get that e-mail fix as soon as I can 

When my life started to fall apart last year, I knew I had to kick the habit. 
I tried to end it by taking methadone instead. That seemed to work. But I became addicted to methadone. Now I'm off of methadone. But I'm on 
Rolando de Aguiar 
Associate Sports 
electronic mail. Big--------­time. E-mail has taken over my life. I plan my schedule around it. I've figured how to get to the closest computer lab from any point on campus. I need an e-mail fix more often than Warren Beatty needs sex. Two, three times a day. Minimum. Sunday was stressful. I went to bed at 5 a.m. When I got up five hours later, the dangerous, unstable (but mellow) fellow who had slept in my room had disappeared. After a short search, we found him. He hadn't hurt anyone. But the day was ofT to a hypertensive start. I had an interview at The Observer that afternoon, so I went to the mall. I figured that buying myself some underwear would calm my nerves. It didn't. The Valentine's Day mob annoyed and then depressed me. I ate at Taco Bell to soothe my nerves, to quell another addictive desire. But my bean burritos were dry. I knew what I needed: an e-mail fix. I sped back to campus. As I careened into the stadium parking lot, alii could see was the little Eudora rooster. He was cackling. "You have ntlw mail." he said in his sinister croak. I ran to the DeBartolo lab. My palms were sweaty, and I had trouble getting my student ID out. My breath was short, and I nearly tore my diskette in half when I took it out of my pocket. With no regard for the proper etiquette, 1 roughly shoved it into the machine. My head had stopped throbbing. I checked for mail. There was one new message-from my roommate. I sat down and read the mail. He had made some inane comments about how he needed to stop playing with e-mail so much. Whatever. Why would anyone want to end his or her love affair with this wonderful invention, this electronic mail? With it, we can communicate with anyone with a respectably-sized computer-in a matter of seconds. I have read letters from people 1 haven't seen in years. I have written to my boss from last summer, and begged him to try to 
scrounge  up  a  job  for  me.  What  other  
opportunities  await  
Holando.deAguiar.1 @nd.edu?  

E-mail otTers the intimacy of letters with the immediacy of the telephone. It is the wonder drug that works wonders. 
But I am hooked. I have checked my mail twice today. I will probably check it again by the time I go to bed. I know I will. I cannot sleep without getting a fix. I cannot even rest. E-mail is killing me. 
I know that I need to kick the habit. But what's next for me? I've already done the really hard stuiT. And after e-mail, what's left? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Accent
News 
Gerrie Hamilton
Frank Rivera Mary Schultze 
Emily Hage 

Systems 
Harry Zembillas 

Production 
Peggy Crooks 

Sports
Bryan Nowicki George Dohrmann 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Forecast for noon, FrldayrFebruary 17
WEATHER REPORt 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L BES11TI1 0~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATION 

WASHINGTON -And you thought the Berlin Wall had come down. Wrong. Parts of it are still up -at the Central Intelligence Agency's headquarters in suburban Virginia. Three contiguous pieces of the wall, whose destruction by German protesters in 1989 heralded the end of the divide between the Communist east and the democratic west, have been rebuilt on the CIA grounds. They were brought there to serve as a monument to the west's fight against communism and as a tribute to the people of eastern Europe who sought to bring it down for 28 years. 

WASHINGTON -A federal antitrust suit that accuses airlines of illegally sharing ticket price information could lead to millions of extra dollars in air fares, a travel agents group said Tuesday. "As hard as it is to believe, if the Department of Justice has its way it might become a crime for an airline or travel agent to inform customers as to when air fares will be increased," said Earlene Causey, head of the American Society of Travel Agents. The Justice Department in December charged in a civil -not criminal -antitrust case that eight major airlines fixed fares in the $40 billion domestic passenger business. The lawsuit said the airlines shared planned fare changes through a com­puter system, agreeing to increase particular fares and eliminating some discounts between specific cities. 

OF INTEREST 
A Polish tour information meeting will be from 6 to 
6:30 p.m. in 348 at Madeleva at Saint Mary's. 
Pre-registration for all undergraduate students must be completed by Feb. 24, 1993. If you have not returned your pre-registration deposit form and the $100 deposit, 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 16 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 252,672,371 -5.81 to 239.49 S&P COMPOSITE -10.67 to 433.91 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -82.94 to 3,433.91

UNCHANGED 392 
GOLD 
-$1.20 to $332.20 
SILVER -$0.05 to $3.757 
© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Philadelphia 52 33 Rome 59 41 Seattle 55 40




§ ~ !"'iu 
South Bend 33 30 
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Tokyo 46 36 ,washin ton, D.C.52 32 
WA INGTON -Coretta Scott King visited FBI headquarters Tuesday and was warmly applauded by agents office workers in sharp contrast to the surveillance and suspicion the agen aimed at her husband. The widow of rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. spoke before a predominantly black, standing-room-only crowd in the auditorium, but her remarks were broadcast throughout the J. Edgar Hoover building. "The last time anybody from the King family was here was in the 1960s, when the doctor met the director," FBI spokesman Steve Markardt said. "History records that as a less than positive experience." The director then was Hoover, who ordered intensive surveillance of the King when he was leading the civil rights movement. This time, Mrs. King used the occasion to boost embattled Director William Sessions for his affirmative action policies even as he fights to keep his job in the face of a critical Justice Department report. 
INDIANA 
SOU 
H BEND -St. Joseph Superior Court Judge Jeanne Jourdan has been assigned the trial of a southern Indiana teen who is one of four teenagers accused in the brutal slaying of a 12-year-old girl. Hope Rippey, 16, of Madison is accused of murder and other related charges in the January 1992 death of Shanda Henee Sharer, who was beaten and tortured before being set on fire on a rural Jefferson County road. Rippey last Friday was granted a change of venue from the southeast Indiana county about 50 miles northeast of Louisville, Ky. A hearing to set the trial date could be held later this week. Three teens already have been sentenced in Shanda's death. Rippey is the only defendant who has not entered a guilty plea. 
go to the Student Accounts Office today. Failure to pre­register will prevent you from being able to DART for the Fall Semester 1993, and will make you ineligible for room picks. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1801: The House of Representatives broke an electoral tie between Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr, electing Jefferson president. 

• 
In 1933: Newsweek published its first issue. 

• 
In 1947: The Voice of America began broadcasting to the Soviet Union. 

• 
In 1964: The Supreme Court issued its "one man, one vote" decision, ruling that congressional districts within each state must be roughly equal in population. 

• 
In 1988: Lt. Col. William Higgins, an American serving with a U.N. truce monitoring group, was kidnapped in southern Lebanon. 

• 
In 1992: Secretary of State James Baker revealed plans to help Russia dismantle its nuclear weapons. 


FORECAST 
Winter weather advisory with snow likely and highs near 
30. Lows in 20s. Saturday cold and snow to continue with highs near 30. 

TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 36 25 Atlanta 53 47 Bogota 72 34 Cairo 57 41 Chicago 33 30 Cleveland 33 32 Dallas 47 40 Detroit 30 27 Indianapolis 39 34 Jerusalem 43 36 London 41 36 
1 
Los Angeles 65 49 Madrid 57 39 Minneapolis 24 18 IMoscow 28 05 
49 
New York 44 39 
Paris 41 36 
I
Nashville 52 
~~---------..----­
--------------~-----------~-----------­
Wednesday, February 17, 1993 The Observer page 3 

Saint Mary'.s observes Black History Month 
By ALISON DASSO 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College began its observance of Black History Month by screening the film "The Long Walk Home" last night in Carroll Auditorium. 
Viewers of the film were welcomed by Maricela Ramirez on behalf of Minority International and Non­Traditional student life (MINT), who said· that the movie was selected to be shown because of the way it depicts "the fight by American people for civil rights." 
Ramirez said that it was important to observe Black History Month because, "We are in a society composed of different ethnic and cultural groups and this is what America is. The history of each of these ethnic groups makes our society what it is. I think it is very relevant to realize this." 
The film, which is set in Montgomery, Alabama, focuses on the bus boycotts imposed by blacks in order to protest segregation. The film shows the relationship between a black housekeeper (Whoopi 
Goldberg} caught in the middle 
. of the boycott and her white employer (Sissy Spacek). Spacek's character joins with Goldberg's in the fight for equal rights and better racial harmony. Both women's lives are changed by what the film calls "a war of the will that began in the cradle of the confederacy." A discussion, led by Assis­tant Dean of Faculty Pat White, followed the film. White commented on film techniques used throughout the film and touched upon background information on the civil rights movement. Afro-American music and food wm·be provided today in the dining hall from 4:30-6:30 p.m. The lecture,"Constructing Freedom: Race, Gender, and Power Reconstruction" will be given by Laura Edwards from the University of Chicago on Thursday, February 18 at 4 
p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
AU events are sponsored by the Office of the Associate Dean, MINT, Student Activities Board and the Sisters of Nefertiti. 

ACourse In 




Economics. 
Students can get great haircuts from professional 
stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an 
appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality. 
~-------l~-------]1-------l 
:$1.00 Off: :$5.00 Off: :200/o Off : 
~~  Haircut  ~~  ~~  Penn  
I  I I  
With student ID  1  1  With student LD  
I  No double d•scounls  No double d1scoun1s  
I  reg. $8.95  I I  
I  MasterCuts  I I  MasterCuts 

L_______ JL _______ 
:~~An Haircare! 
I I  I  
1  1  With student ID  1  
No double discounts  
I I  I  
I I JL  MasterCuts _______  Ij  

MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Req1s COfoorat•(}(l 1992 

277-3770 
Ranly: Church in Peru has 'lack of leadership' 
By LISA WOLTER 
News Writer 
The Catholic Church in Peru has "a sense of drift and a lack of leadership" because of the tension between the influence of Rome and the voice of the Peruvian people, said Fr. Ernest Hanly, a researcher and practitioner based in Peru. 
The situation in Peru today is "like walking through a mine field where no one is a mere observer and we can all be at the wrong place at the wrong time," he said at his lecture, "The Role of the Peruvian Church in Social Change." 
Hanly said the recent political activity in Peru, including the dissolution of the Congress and the suspension of the democratic constitution, has created several new situations that require church aid. 
The Church has difficulty ad­dressing current problems be­cause it is divided between the influence of the conservative bishops and the libertarian theologians, who are being removed from power, said Hanly. 
"A vacuum is being left," added Hanly, by the increas­ingly elderly clergy and church personnel. 
One difficulty is drug traffick­ing, which continues to cause a "general environment of im­morality and hopelessness," he said. The problem persists be­cause of the immense power of the drug lords and what Hanly called "the lack of political good will to obstruct processing or marketing of cocaine." 
In economic policy, the newly­installed government has advocated re-privatization, he said, and the companies are now being sold to private busi­nessmen. 
While the Church has made no formal condemnation of cap­italism, it is painful for church members to se_e the social price the poor inevitably must pay, according to Hanly. Yet the Church felt "there is no other alternative" for Peru now. 
Hanly said the Peruvians' "very culture is their best de­fense" against the subversive violence of the Shining Path, a professed human liberation or­ganization. The Peruvian peo­ple have a "sense of resilience and cohesion" from their long centuries of past oppression. he said. 
"Peru begs for your solidar­ity," continued Hanly, both in prayer and action in the real political world. 
Last night's leCture was spon­sored by the Hellen Kellogg Institute for International Stud­ies. 
Saint Mary's panel discusses liberal arts merits 

By CHRISTINA CANNON 
News Writer 
The Economics Department. in conjunction with the Career Counseling Center at Saint Mary's College, sponsored a lecture, "Life After Saint Mary's: Putting Your Major to Work". 
The two-woman panel com­prised of Mary Burke, a 1985 humanistic studies graduate and Mary Barbosa-Marshall a 1988 English graduate, stressed that a liberal arts degree was applicable in today's business world. 
Burke works as a Vice-Presi­dent in charge of corporate loans at a bank in Chicago. 
"Humanistic studies taught me three things," she said. "To think logically, speak clearly and write coherently. Corpora­tions are looking for people with these skills." 
Burke quoted from a recent New York Times article that said that in the post-industrial society, problem-solvers and people capable of working in­dependently and cooperatively, were much more valuable than those trained for specific jobs. She said this is the essence of a liberal arts education. 
"The problem is convincing people, said Barbosa-Marshall. "People think that if you aren't trained for a specific skill that you can't do it." 
She stressed looking for in-



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasz at 1-5303 for more information. 

Ill 
:I: 
1­
ternships and other opportuni­ties for work experience during college that set a person apart from other liberal arts majors who are also seeking employ­ment. Work on school newspa­pers or computer skills are valuable opportunities, also, ac­cording to Barbosa-Marshall. 
"That's one less thing your employer has to to teach you, " she said. 
Barbosa-Marshall said the skills she found most important in any job area included basic accounting skills and computer knowledge. "Computer skills are very important. Almost ev­ery job uses them. " 
"Take classes you like. Cor­porations can always train you to do a specific task. Things like engineering and nursing must be studied in an undergraduate program, but otherwise not," said Burke. "In college you go to classes and then you have time to read and sleep. Pick a career you think you'd like to do all day. You spend so much time doing it." 

Smoking Stinks-­
please don't do it! 


HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 19, 1993 
------~--~ -­
page 4 
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
years. 
The broadest impact of Clin­ton's tax program would be from a new tax on energy. De­tails of the energy tax were being withheld until Clinton's speech, but it is supposed to be based on the heat content of fuels. 
There also will be an increase in the top individual and corpo-
JPW 
continued from page 1 
side of life at Notre Dame," said Claire Kriens, Arts and Letters Workshop chairperson. 
Father Edward Malloy and junior class president Dan Connolly will address the ju­niors and their parents at the dinner Saturday evening, which will follow the celebration of mass in the Joyce A.C.C. basketball arena, said Nie­mann. 
The weekend will close with a Sunday brunch featuring Pres-

Panel. 
continued from page 1 
repercussions for all parties in­volved, he said. 
The panelists agreed that racism is not an isolated phe­nomena, but born out of differ­ent factors, and that the key to improving race relations is learning how to talk and ask questions. 
A member of the university community for 19 years, Smith suggested that the Notre Dame community use cultural diver­sity "to strengthen our exis­tence together." Smith added that ignoring cultural diversity creates a breeding ground for racism. 
Smith stated, "cultural diver­sity should be an enriching ex­perience for everyone in order to function in today's global community." 
Several students expressed their concerns, seeking advice on ways to counter racism. 
Outlaw advised students to start simple, on the personal level. She said that everyone can play their part in combat­ting stereotypes. 
"Even questioning someone and making them think about what they are saying consti­tutes taking an 'activist' stance," Outlaw stated. "It doesn't matter how much you talk about it, but rather acting on what is said." 
A member of the audience also noted in the open forum 
Ill 
~------------------­
The Observer 
rate income tax rates and an increase in the percentage of Social Security benefits subject to taxation for couples earning over $32,000 or individuals earning more than $25,000. 
The plan calls for a $15 billion investment tax credit and for $16 billion in short­term spending for job-intensive projects such as highway and bridge construction. On the cost-cutting side, the plan envi­sions about $55 billion in Medi­care savings over five years, ac­cording to a Democratic official 
ident Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, she added. 
Other additions to the JPW include a video presentation geared toward the parents, and a slide show at the Gala for the junior class, Niemann said. 
According to Niemann the number of participants for JPW has decreased this year because more juniors are studying abroad and their has been a decline in the economy. 
JPW has remained a tradition at Notre Dame and it allows "kids and parents come to­gether on an adult level and to really see ND and what our life has turned out to be here," 

Board 
continued from page 1 
Baton Rouge, La. She Jives in Holy Cross Hall and is currently a sales representative. 
• 
Stephanie Goldman, adver­tising design manager. Gold­man is a junior English major from Mount Airy, Md. She lives in Knott Hall and is assistant advertising design manager. 

• 
Kathy Fong, interim pro­duction manager. Fong is a ju­nior finance and computer applications major from Rockville Centre. She is a resi­dent of Walsh Hall and is cur­rently a design editor. 


Junior Cheryl Moser, cur­rently studying in London, England, will assume the posi-

April 
continued from page 1 
dents will be assigned to differ­ent projects in the South Bend area and driven to their sites on the morning of the event. 
According to steering com­mittee member Tim Vande­Walle, the non-for-profit group hopes to recruit as many as 1200 volunteers. 
Wednesday, February 17, 1993 
tion at the beginning of the fall semester. She is an English and sociology major from Aurora, Colo. 
• 
Patrick Barth, systems manager. Barth is a junior resident of Grace Hall from Spokane, Wash. He is majoring in pre-professional studies and communications. This will be his second term as systems manager. 

• 
Brendan Regan, Observer Typesetting Manager. Regan is a junior American studies ma­jor from Mankato, Minn. He lives at Turtle Creek Apart­ments and is currently a graphic artist. 

• 
Mark Meenan, Controller. Meenan is a junior accountancy and computer applications ma­jor from Morristown, N.J. He lives in Alumni Hall. 


"The number of volunteers we have will be limited by the number of houses and projects we have-but I don't anticipate us turning anyone away," he said. 
According to volunteer Curt Cronister, Christmas In April is a worthwhile way to spend a Saturday. 
"We had a great group of people, and we managed to do a lot of good in just one day," he said. 
that one need not be in student government in order to ask questions and speak out against injustice. 
Through informal discus­sions, "it is important for stu­dents to find a common ground through some shared activities. It is then that the dialogue can familiar with the plan. Most of that will be achieved by re­ducing payments to doctors and hospitals. 
Beyond the taxes to be an­nounced Wednesday, White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers confirmed that the ad­ministration is considering an­other round of increases to pay for universal health care. 
Among the options are taxes on premiums collected by in­surance companies, new cor­porate taxes and increased taxes on such items as tobacco, alcohol, guns and pollutants. 
Niemann said. 
"After studying abroad last semester, I've made a lot of close friends and have heard so much about their parents," said off-campus junior Jamie Ford. "Actually, I am really anticipat­ing to see how my friends turned out the way they did by meeting their parents," he added. 
Also with high expectations for JPW, Pangborn Hall junior Allison Deloia said, "Because I am a transfer student I am ex­cited to show my parents the University now that I've been here for a semester and know what it's all about." 



SIMPLE MEN
FINE LINE FEATURES, ZENITH .,AMERICAN PlAYHOUSE THEATRICAL FILMS-·TRUE FlatON PlatuRE '""=FILM FOUR INTERNATIONAL ••• HAL HARTLEY ~MPLE MEN • ROBERT BURKE WILLIAM SAGE KAREN SILLAS EUNA LOWENSOHN MARTIN DONOVAN JOHN MACKAY ..:;:.:MIKE SPILLER '=DAN OUEllmE I:CJEROME BROWNSTEIN &BRUCE WEISS 
(R(..:::=..!!..j -..HALHARTLEY&TEDHOPE :::.O:HALHARTLEY P''"'''"' 
1 
. . -·-•-~ 0 "'•111-IU-... FEAIUIU 
otre Dame Comm South Bend Premiere! One Night Only! 

Morris Civic Auditorium 
Just-published Hal Hartley screen plays are 
on sale at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Sunday, February 21 8:00PM 
Hal will be happy to sign your copy at the
Tickets: $5 at !he door or in advance a! the 

reception following the screening. 
1-8128 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
~!:CLUB 
Apply today for the best job in the whole world! Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office 3rd floor LaFortune 
Deadline: March 5, 1993 

begin," she said. 
"The best way is to learn someone's culture and thus see them as a whole person. When you see where they come from you see there aren't many dif­ferences ," Borelli said. "It takes time, but first we should get to know ourselves." 
The Jacques Maritian Center presents ... 
The Final Revolution: The Catholic Church and the Collapse of European Communism 

by
George Weigel 
President. Ethics and Public Policy Center Washington, D.C. 
Room 125 DeBartolo Wednesday, February 17 4:15p.m. John M. Olin Lecture Series 
50TH ANNIVERSARY 
THE SHOW CELEBRATION YOU REMEMBER! 
OPENS NEXT WEEK! 
Rodgers~,
Hammerstem s 
OKLAHOMA\ 
Music by RICHARD RODGERS Book and Lyrics by 
oscAR HAMMERSTEIN 
BaSed on me plaY Green Grow the Lilacs 
by Lynn Riggs Or\;!inal Dances by AGNES DE MILLE 
Musical Direction by NANCY MENK Choreography by INDI DIECKGRAFE Set &Lighting Design by SHAUN L. WELLEN Costumes by SYDNEY WELLEN 
Tt.xsday · Sal.mlay 
FEBRUARY 25-27, 8:00 P.M. 
S!llday 
FEBRUARY 28, 2:30P.M. OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS: $5 {SM'S-ND community with valid i.d.) Available at the Saint Mary's Box Office Otaughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 9a.m.-5 p.m. Charge Orders and Information: 284-4626 

Wednesday, February 17, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Sarajevo wracked by 
Weapons inspectors seek aerial 
shelling and sniper fir~ 
inspection of two Baghdad sites 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -The Pierce Corden, an American spectors discovered the sites on 
U.N. plans to send more who is deputy chief of the Spe­their own, and have checked weapons inspectors to Baghdad cial Commission, declined to them on visits by car. and conduct aerial surveys of comment about possible flights Helicopters are useful for tak­two sites where it suspects over Baghdad. But he said ing aerial photographs that Saddam Hussein's government three to four new teams of would disclose new construc­designed nuclear missiles, U.N. weapons inspectors would be tion activity at a site or the re­officials said Tuesday. coming to Baghdad soon. moval of equipment. 
The decision to challenge "Unless there is a dramatic Saddam's ban on flights over change in Baghdad's attitude, Saddam's government long Baghdad will test Iraqi compli­Iraq has a long way to go fulfill­denied it was trying to develop ance with U.N. Security Council ing all the Gulf War Security nuclear warheads, but U.N. terms for ending the Persian Council resolutions," said Cor­teams have reported finding Gulf War. If Iraq refuses to den, who was in Baghdad evidence that the Iraqis had comply, it could lead to Presi­prepai-ing a report on the made substantial progress to­dent Clinton's first showdown commission's progress. ward building such weapons with Saddam. before the Gulf War. 
Tim Trevan, a spokesman for U.N. inspectors have given the Patrice Palanque, a French­the U.N. Special Commission Iraqis notice they want to fly man heading a U.N. team of 13 overseeing the destruction of over two relatively small sites in missile experts now in Iraq, Iraq's major weapons systems, Baghdad believed to contain said he was unaware of the said inspection teams had not equipment to design prototypes U.N. decision to make aerial flown over the capital so far out of nuclear ballistic missiles, surveys over Baghdad. of respect for Iraqi sensitivities. Trevan said. However, the The visits could heighten ten­
Iraqis have not been given flight sions over implementing Secu­
But "we have the right to fly plans or a date, he said. rity Council resolutions order­over Baghdad," Trevan said in The sites were not included in ing the dismantling of Iraqi nu­New York. "We will exercise Baghdad's disclosure of facili­clear, chemical and biological that right when we have op­ties involved in nuclear re­weapons and missiles with a erational need to do so." search, Trevan said. The in-range greater than 90 miles. 
Christopher: Go-ahead for talks not expected 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secre­feel about reopening the nego­tary of State Warren Christo­tiations that were suspended pher said Tuesday he does not here in mid-December. expect the Mideast leaders he is "I hope that subsequently the about to visit on his first over­peace process can be seas trip to give him an imme­restarted," Christopher said. diate green light to resume But. he added: "I would not ex­stalled peace talks in April. pect that to happen during the 
Even with U.N. endorsement course of my trip." of a U.S. compromise with Is­Christopher flies to the Middle rael over Palestinian deporta­East Wednesday night with tions, Christopher voiced lim­stops planned in Egypt, Jordan, ited expectations as he met Syria, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and here with Israeli Foreign Minis­Israel. He will then meet in ter Shimon Peres. Geneva Feb. 25 with Russian 
"The portents are very good," Foreign Minister Andrei Christopher said. He told Kozyrev and go on to Brussels reporters he hoped to get­the next day for talks with "some sense" from the leaders NATO foreign ministers about he will meet beginning on the war in Bosnia and tensions Thursday· in Cairo on how they in the Kosovo region of Serbia. 
The Sandpiper--Beacon 
"Your Vacation Host on the Gulf Coast" 
650' Gulf Beach Frontage 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools 1 Enclosed Heated Pool Kitchens with Microwaves Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasailing Volleyball Tiki Beach Bar 
Make Your Spring Break Reservations Now! 
1~R00~488~8R28 
17403 Front Beach Roaa • Panama City Beach, Florida 3 2413 

G 
Ibrahim Rugova, the elected president of Kosovo, appealed at a news conference Tuesday for the region to be put under a 
U.N. protectorate. He said Ser­bian paramilitary forces in the predominantly ethnic Albanian region were poised "to provoke a conflict when the time is right and they can perform mas­sacres as elsewhere." 
On Bosnia, Christopher last week pledged U.S. forces would be part of a peacekeeping op­eration under U.N. or NATO command if a cease-fire and a settlement of the war in the former Yugoslav republic were arranged. 
The meeting with Kozyrev is designed to arrange a summit between President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin. It is considered to have high priority because of the economic and other pressures challenging Yeltsin's reform movement. 
The Clinton administration has held off inviting Arabs and Israelis to return to Washington for talks on borders, peace and Palestinian self-rule. 
One reason is to give Christo­pher and other policy-makers a chance to explore the Mideast leaders' thinking. Another, however, is Arab disapproval of Israel's exile on Dec. 17 of some 400 Palestinians suspected of fomenting violence. 
Christopher and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin reached agreement Feb. 1 on a compromise that would repa­triate all the 396 Palestinians from a tent encampment in Le­banon by the end of the year, and about 100 of them imme­diately. 
The U.N. Security Council last Friday called the agreement "a step in the right direction." Rabin declared an end to the crisis on Sunday and Christo­pher told reporters Tuesday "we thought the action taken at the U.N. last Friday was a posi­tive action." 
But, he said, "before I get out to the region and talk to all the parties it would be somewhat 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Shelling and sniper irre wracked Sarajevo today, and Bosnian Serbs re­fused to let an aid convoy set out for an eastern Bosnian re­gion harboring 40,000 Muslim refugees. 
Serbs besieging the capital reportedly moved tanks onto the main airport road. hut it was not clear if an attack was under way. There were unconirrmed reports that Serb militiamen captured a suburb from Muslim-led government troops Sunday. 
Sarajevo's 380,000 residents were urged to stay indoors, but some ignored the warning, running with heads down across stretches of road raked by sniper fire. The capital's old town and the area near the presidency building were pounded by Serb artillery. 
In neighboring Croatia, gov­ernment troops clashed with rebel Serbs in the Dalmatia region, between Zadar and Si­henik. Croatia's ethnic war halted when U.N. peacekeepers arrived a year ago, but the government launched an offensive last month seeking to regain ter­ritory in the south controlled by Serbs. 
Bosnian radio reported more attacks today by Serb artillery and tanks in eastern Bosnia, where Muslim troops have regained some territory in recent weeks. One attack reportedly was aimed at Kamenica, a Muslim village near Cerska that was to receive part of the aid carried by the delayed U.N. convoy.· 
Serb leader Radovan Karadzic's assurances of safe passage for the aid cop:voy through Serb-controlled tettl· tory followed talks between 
U.N. 
special envoy Cyrus Vance and Serbia's president, Slohodan Milosevic. 

U.N. 
officials said Milosevic, at Vance's request, pledged Monday to get a safe-passage guarantee from Bosnian Serbs. who are supported by Serb-dominated Yugoslavia. It was not clear if Karadzic's offer was a direct result of pressure by Milosevic. 


Bosnia's Muslims have he­come increasingly hostile to the U.N. peacekeeping and aid operations because of the failure to stop the war over its secession from Yugoslavia or to get aid to Muslims trapped by Serb sieges. 
Sylvana Foa, a spokeswoman of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, said Bosnian Serb commanders at the border with Serbia were reluctant to let the convoy pass. 
The ten U.N. trucks, which intend to go to the Cerska re­gion, had been held up at the border since Sunday. 
Sarajevo officials continued their ban on distributing U.N. aid to residents. They stopped handing out relief supplies Friday to pressure U.N. officials to get aid to eastern Bosnia. where up to 200,000 Muslims are reported trapped in several enclaves, including Cerska. 
BARBARA FREY Executive Director, Minnesota Advocates For Human Rigfzts 
"PREVENTING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS: THE CASE OF KOSOVO, YUGOSLAVIA" 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY IS NOON ROOM 220 ~ LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 


This Thursday -7:00pm 124 Hayes Healey 
presumptuous of me to con­
clude they (the peace talks) can 
begin immediately." 
•Info about Finance Forum 
Hanan Ashrawi, spokeswoman for the Palestini­ans, said Saturday the deal had 
•Meet the Candidates before next week's election 
"no validity" and represented "a blow to the integrity of the 
Security Council and another attempt at baili~g Israel out." 
•Please try to Attend! 
page 6 
Congressman: Millions of dollars wasted by moving of test wing 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Air Force is sticking to its decision to move a test wing out of Dayton, Ohio, even though it can't prove the change will save money or make operations more efficient, an Ohio congressman said Tuesday. 
Moving the 4950th Test Wing from Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton to Ed­wards Air Force. Base in Cali­fornia is expected to cost the government about $56 million, including $33 million in moving expenses and construction costs. 
Rep. Tony Hall, D-Ohio, filed a Freedom of Information Act request seeking the studies or reports that showed why the Air Force decided moving the wing will make its operations "more economical and effi­cient." 
The Air Force replied that it searched twice for such a study or report and found none, said Hall, whose district includes part of Wright-Patterson. 
"The move is a complete waste of money," he said. 
The planned consolidation of the test wing with the Air Force Flight Test Center at Edwards is "nothing but a very expensive public relations game," Hall said. 
At the Pentagon, Air Force Maj. Barbara Claypool said the 1991 Base Closing and Re­alignment Commission initially suggested the merger after "a certain amount of analysis and study." 
"We're in an era of stream­lining," she said. "I can un­derstand Congressman Hall's concerns but a streamlining and consolidation has inherent benefits. The Air Force has studied this and will continue to, I'm sure." 
Hall said in a news release that combining the 4950th with the test center at Edwards "could give the appearance" of ridding the Air Force of dupli­cate facilities but Wright-Pat­terson and Edwards conduct different kinds of tests and "no actual testing operations would be consolidated." 
What's more, before testing could be done at Edwards, planes would have to be flown to Wright-Patterson for prepa­rations still assigned to the Ohio base, Hall said. 
Claypool said the next base­closing recommendations from the Pentagon are expected next month. 
She also said the Air Force is "within a few weeks of award­ing a construction contract at Edwards" for facilities needed by the 4950th after the move. 
Hall, Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, and Rep. David Hobson, R-Ohio, earlier this month asked Defense Secretary Les Aspin to postpone the contract· award until the new Pentagon chief has time to review the issue. 
Groups ask about possible GM document shredding 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­sumer groups seeking the recall of 4. 7 million General Motors' pickup trucks asked the Justice Department on Tuesday to look into an allegation of shredding 
of documents  by the  auto  
maker.  
The  consumer  groups  

claimed the documents might have shed light on the 1973-87 Chevrolet and GMC C-K series full-size pickups, which have side-mounted gasoline tanks now the subject of a federal safety investigation. Earlier this month, an Atlanta jury awarded $105.2 million in damages to the family of a 1 7­year-old who died in a crash of a 1985 GMC pickup. 
The Center for Auto Safety and Public Citizen said their al­legation was supported by a Nov. 5, 1991, deposition video­taped by a former GM engineer a few months before his death. 
Theodore Kashmerick, who said his documents were so thorough that the sales and le­gal departments came to him for data, said he was told around 1982 it was not a good idea to keep paperwork on the GM truck design because it was potentially controversial. He said every document, including a box he had stored at his cot­tage about 250 miles away, was seized from him. 
"The document destruction was so systematic and widespread that we are today asking the Department of Jus­tice for an investigation to de­termine if there was any viola­tion of criminal or civil Jaw," Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, told a press con­ference. 
The consumer groups deliv­ered a letter for acting Attorney General Stuart Gerson. Justice spokesmen had not immediate response. 
GM said Kashmerick's allega­tion "is a matter of great con­cern to GM." 

IfL. THE 
USHWA CENTER .:::::::! FOR THE STUDY OF ...,I FAMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
U presents 
THE HIBERNIAN LECTURE 
THE WANING OF A PATRIARCHY: IRELAND IN THE 1990's 
Professor Margaret MacCurtain Boston College 
Thursday, February 18, 1993 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Liorary Lounge University of Notre Dame 
The Observer Wednesday, February 17, 1993 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Dancing to the beat 
Area residents and students and faculty of Notre Dame learned Irish folk dancing at the Architecture Building yesterday. 
Beef contamination causes food poisoning 
NEW YORK (AP) -If people worried at all about beef, they mostly worried about fat. Per­haps that's why a fatal food poi­soning outbreak traced to fast­food hamburgers so frightened people. 
"It shocks most people," said Jim Greene, a spokesman for the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. "Part of being American is going to a fast-food place and buying that wholly American food, the hamburger or the cheeseburger." 
Americans spend an average of $250 each a year at fast-food restaurants, and part of the ap­peal is that they hold no sur­prises: You know just what's on the menu and how it will taste. 
That notion was shaken with the food poisoning outbreak last month among hundreds of people, many of them children. Most of them ate under-cooked hamburger at Jack in the Box restaurants in the Northwest; a few are believed to have be­come ill from contact with others who ate tainted meat. 
The tainted meat carried a particularly harmful strain of bacteria called E. coli 0157:H7. It is found in milk and beef, and normally is killed by the heat of pasteurization or cooking. 
Sales at Jack in the Box dropped by as much as 35 per­cent after the outbreak. 
At a Senate subcommittee hearing, Sen. Patty Murray, D­Wash., expressed some of the fears caused by the outbreak. She noted that teenagers who run burger grills often are re­sponsible for making sure pat­ties are cooked enough. 
Most fast-food chains have automated systems, such as McDonald's clamshell grills that are programmed to open when the meat is done. Jack in the Box uses a timer system, but it was set for a lower temperature than Washington state required. 
For years, fast-food compa­nies and the beef industry have been fighting beef's corpulent image -and the healthy image of fish and poultry -with ad­vertisements talking about making beef part of a healthy diet and describing farmers' and processors' efforts to pro­duce leaner meat. 
Consumers now can expect to see a lot more information about safety in markets and on meat packages, said Sara Clarke, spokeswoman at the American Meat Institute, a trade group in Arlington, Va. 
Until 1989, when AMI issued guidelines calling for cooking ground beef to 155 degrees, there had been no industry 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
standard, Clarke said. Shortly after the outbreak, the Food and Drug Administration also issued that guideline, increas­ing its earlier recommendation of cooking to at least 140 de­grees. 
But no matter what the indus­try does, if you want a guaran­tee, give up medium-rare burgers. Ground beef cooked so there's no pink is heated enough to kill harmful bacteria, authorities say. 
"Temperature is easy to fix; 
E. coli will be hard to track," Clarke said. "Where does it come from? We don't have those answers yet." 
Last April, the National Cat­tlemen's Association, in its newsletter The Beef Brief, said meat "is subjected to more test­ing and inspection, to assure safety and wholesomeness, than is any other food." 
That may be true, but USDA inspectors are not required to test for E. coli bacteria. They generally rely on visual and manual inspections -and you can't see bacteria. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, TX ,om SIQ9 
5 and 7 NIGHTS $ DAYTONA BEACH, FL ,om 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH, FL ,,oms 81 
S AND 7 NIGHTS $ 
STEAMBOAT., CO ,om 129 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANGISLAND, TX ,,omSIJ2
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, SC ,.m1121 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
VAIL I BEAVER CREEK, CO ,om 1299 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS • •Ut:+ PRICES FOR STAY-w NOT PER NIGHT! "' 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·!21·5911
------.­
~ 

a
-~--------~-----~~ -­
Wednesday, February 17, 1993 The Observer page? 
Reich: Working Americans asked to sacrifice 
BAL HARBOUR, Fla. (AP) ­Labor Secretary Robert Reich told the nation's labor leaders today that while President Clin­ton's economic program will hit the wealthy the hardest, "even average working men and women" will be asked to pay more. 
"We talked about the fact that everybody in this country is go­ing to have to bear some of the burden," Reich told reporters after meeting with the AFL­CIO's governing council for two and a half hours -three times longer than was planned. 
"People at the top are going to have to bear their fair share, but even average working men and women are going to have to bear part of the price," Reich said. 
Reich said he did not ask the labor leaders, who represent about 14 million workers, to endorse Clinton's plan formally. But later, AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland told reporters his group "will do its level best" to promote the plan. 
Reich said he did not give the labor officials details of the eco­nomic program. Clinton is scheduled to announce it Wednesday in an address to a joint meeting of Congress. 
IC~B~RG D~BAl~S 
~tMI~INAl ROUND 
WtDNt~DAY, feBRUARY 1l 




U©[f\1] ~~[K]U~ 
"Resolved, that Notre Dame is losing its Catholic character.~~ 
The first dorm listed will be defending the affirmative position. 
Breen Phillips 
v. 
Stanford 
and 
Zahrn 
V. 
Sorin 
The semifinals will be held at 7:00P.M. and 8:00P.M., respectively, in the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune. -:.1, 
~­
Although they are not sure they will like all elements of the economic plan, labor leaders don't hesitate to heap praise on Reich, who helped develop it. 
"When you have a guy like Bob Reich things can happen and things will happen," Mor­ton Bahr, president of the Communications Workers of America, said Monday. 
Labor leaders view Reich, a former Harvard professor and a key adviser to Clinton during the campaign and the post­election transition, as an inno­vator whose ideas on making American workers more com­petitive mesh with their own. 
"What a breath of fresh air he is," said George Kourpias, president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. 
Kourpias recalled in an inter­view Monday that Reich had told the Senate Labor Commit­tee in his confirmation hearing that he wanted to make it easier for workers to join unions. 
"That's something we haven't heard in years" from a labor secretary, Kourpias said. 
Robert· Kalaski, director of communications for the ma­chinists and aerospace workers 

will be held Saturday, April 17, 1993 
Any bands interested in participating can pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor ofLafortune 
*Application deadline is Monday, March 1, 1993* The first 20 bands to turn in applications will be accepted. 

union, said little, if anything, was accomplished when Presi­dent Bush's labor secretary, Lynn Martin, appeared before the labor leaders. 
Reich has made other pro­nouncements that please the trade unionists. He said re­cently that he expected Clinton to follow through on a cam­paign pledge to push for legisla­tion banning the use of perma­nent replacement workers for strikers, and he declared him­self in favor of raising the minimum wage. 
The AFL-CIO executive coun­cil on Monday issued a declara­tion calling on Congress to raise the minimum wage by 50 cents an hour this year and next year, and then ensuring that in the future it remain at 50 percent of the national average hourly wage. 
The minimum wage now is $4.25 an hour. The national average hourly wage in Jan­uary was $10.74, according to the Labor Department. 
AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland said that he expected labor unions to be "broadly supportive" of Clinton's economic program, while other labor chiefs said they were wary of a new tax on energy. 
Task force weighs tax on worker health benefits 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton's health care re­form task force is considering a tax on employee health benefits as part of a plan to control costs and provide coverage for the uninsured. 
The White House acknowl­edged Tuesday that its task force was looking at a variety of possible new taxes to help pay for Clinton's health reforms. 
Hillary Clinton, the chair of the task force, made her second sales trip to Capitol Hill on behalf of the plan still being de­veloped. She met separately with Democratic and Republi­can House leaders and more 
Americans 'l~ek specifics in::economic 'call to arms' 
(AP) -Many Americans say they'll wait to hear the det~ before deciding how to answ~r President Clinton's ecoriomit; "call to arms." 
e were -lot!; ~t·warm fu there, but not many specifics," said Merrill Nielsen, 44, a wheat farmer from Syl· 
van··~rove" KAn~ ._,,,}":::~:,;;;·~:::;;:;::.~:.:::·· 
Jarilce Romain, a Palmdale, Calif., businesswoman, said she would have liked more de­tans. in. Mond~y rught's speech. about how he will implement his $500 billion in tax incr~ases a;nd spending cut$;, "It was too vague," she said. 
Clinton's first televised ad­dress from the Oval Office was mealitto build support-for the sacrifices that will be required under the four-year economic stimulus plan he will present to Congress in another speech on Wednesday. 
The plan will include a new tax on fuels and sources of en~ ergy and an increase in the top individual and corporate tax rate. 
"I know that a lot of people will say he's breaking promises and so forth, but I'd 
·,~::::::·:: 
than 50 rank-and-file lawmak­ers. 
The first lady declined to comment on a report in The Wall Street Journal that the task force was exploring such money-raising options as taxing insurance company premiums, taxing benefits above certain levels,· taxing products like tobacco and alcoholic drinks that can contribute to health problems, a higher corporate tax and other levies. 
Such levies were cited as possibilities in a Jan. 26 memo by Ira Magaziner, a senior White House aide in charge of policy development for the task force. The Magaziner memo suggested universal access could cost the government $30 billion to $90 billion a year by 1997. 
White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers said it was premature to talk about any specific proposal, but added that "the memo is accurate as reported." 
Mrs. Clinton, at a brief news conference in Statuary Hall with Speaker Thomas Foley and House Majority Leader Richard 
The Biology Oub of Notre Dame Presents: 
really rather see him deal with reality than do the kind of myth:-making and deception that took place during the Bush years,"· said lawyer Richard Rydelek,. 32, ()f Buffalo, N.Y. "There's going to have to be sacrifice across the board in the short term to have a better lQng·term situation... 
Clinton said 70 percent of the new taxes would affect people making mo.re than $100,000. But he admitted the middle class also would bear some of the burden -a proposal that got a mixed reception. 
"Well, that's OK, we pay a little extra, just so the big guys pay their fair share," said Frank Hyatt of Seattle. "They've always got away scot·free. and we haYe to pay the bill." 
''I pay more in taxes than both :my parents make, so .I feel 1 certainly pay my fair share,'' said Dr. Debra Smithson, a family practitioner in Lee's Summit, Mo. "It's hard for me to believe I'm going to pay more, but I guess I am." 
Gephardt, D-Mo., said, "There isn't a plan yet so I'm not going to comment on that." 
Magaziner, who accompanied her to Capitol Hill, said when asked about the $30 billion to $90 billion estimate, "For any number, we've got an option." 
Foley also cautioned against trying to "pick it apart" before the health package is even put together. 
A portion of the Magaziner memo obtained by The Associ­ated Press spelled out the pre­liminary work plan for the task force. It said the legislation would be drafted around prin­ciples including: 
-Creating a National Health Board to set a standard com­prehensive benefit package for all Americans. 
-Requiring all employers to pay a percentage (perhaps 75-. 80 percent) of the cost of a standard plan for their employ­ees and dependents. 
-Setting up state-based Health Insurance Purchasing Cooperatives to negotiate cov­erage for small businesses and individuals. 
From Egg to Placenta: Reproduction in Sharks, Skates,-and Stingrays 
Associate Professor of Anatomy Indiana Unive!'Sity School of Medicine South Bend Center for Medical Education 
~;, assisltd by NDtu Dllme U~II:S RDbtrt L JamJJ end M4tthnD A. klly 

Wednesday, February 17 at 7:30 283 Galvin Ufe Science Building 
--------~-------~--~------.......-~ ---------~----­
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, February 17, 1993 

1993, 94 STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
GET INVOLVED! 
Applications available in Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune, for the following positions: 
Student Body Secretary Executive Assistant to President Executive Assistant toVice--President 
INTELLECTUAL LIFE DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Academic Commissioner Iceberg Debates Chairperson Speaker Commissioner Hall Fellow Commissioner The Guide Committee Book Fair Commissioner 
LEGAL DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Director of Policy Security Commissioner Policy Analysts 
PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Director of Publicity Notre Dame Today Commissioners Alumni Relations Commissioner ND/SMC Relations Commissioner 
General Council 
STUDENT LIFE DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Women's Concerns Commissioner Campus Improvements Commissioner University Services Commissioner Social Concerns Commissioner Food, Drug, Alcohol, Health Commissioner Residense Hall Liason 
SPECIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Commissioners 
• 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT REPORTS 
Executive Coordinator Board of Trustee Reports Chairperson 
. Student Body Reports Chairperson 
Foreign Relations Commissioner Job Bank Commissioner 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY 5 P.M. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1993. 
SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW WHEN DROPPING OFF YOUR APPLICATION. 
-~.....-------------..------~~­
Wednesday, February 17, 1993 The Observer page 9 
Three die trying to save each other from whirlpool 
PALM SPRINGS, CaliL (AP)­Three friends on a weekend hike died together in a rain­swollen waterfall trying to save each other from an icy whirlpool's grip. 
One of two survivors recalled the struggle against spinning, frigid currents in Murray Canyon south of Palm Springs. "Every time I close my eyes," said a tearful John Torchia. "I see their faces." 
Steve Lopez, 19, Clayton De­Frese, 21, and Charles Kikuchi, 20, died, Riverside County sheriff's Sgt. Mike Ludtke said Monday. 
Murray Canyon is a favorite hiking spot. And the "brothers," as they called themselves. ended their hike by sliding down slick boulders. All but Torchia, a 20-year-old lifeguard, had done it before. 
""From whe.re we were standing," Torchia told the Los Angeles Times in today's edi­tions, "we couldn't see there was a whirlpool." 
Lopez was caught flrst and three others jumped into the frigid water to save him. Torchia tried to revive Lopez with mouth-to-mouth resusci­tation, while DeFrese held Lopez's head above water. 
Unsuccessful, Torchia yelled at DeFrese to let their dead friend go. 
As they clung to a rock wall, the icy current beating at their chests, Torchia realized from looking at DeFrese's and Kikuchi's white faces that they 
were  suffering  from  · hy­ 
pothermia.  
Desperation  propelled  

Torchia out of the water and onto the bank where he tried to toss a lifeline toward his two friends. He was swept down­stream and realized that if he stayed in the water any longer, he would never get out. 

Come see World Champion Pool Player 
Nick Varner 
on Februarv 24th as he plays against Notre Dame's Campus Champion 
in the Ballroom at 8:00p.m. 
Admission is free and popcorn will be served! ! ! 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 
OPEC postpones final meeting 
VIENNA, Austria (AP) ­OPEC struggled today to find a way to reduce oil production after Iran and other members rejected Kuwait's insistence on special treatment. 
The oil cartel opened its final meeting this session several hours late after OPEC president Alirio Parra held a bargaining session with Kuwait. 
Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali al­Baghli late Monday tentatively agreed to cap his country's oil production to help OPEC keep crude prices steady in coming months. But he attached condi­tions to ensure increased pumping later in the year ­demands that Iran and others refused to accept. 
Today, Kuwait said it wouldn't back down. "If there's no commitment, it won't be accepted," said a senior Kuwaiti delegate, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Under the accord, the dozen nations of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would reduce crude oil produc­tion by about 1.5 million barrels a day on March 1. 
In spring, warmer weather in oil-consuming nations causes demand to fall. 
Throughout the meeting, Kuwait, its oil industry devas­tated during the Persian Gulf crisis, wanted to be permitted to pump freely so it could make up for war losses. 
But Saudi Arabia, the most powerful member and the world's largest producer, led others in saying no. 
OPEC nations have flooded the market with 25 million bar­rels of oil a day, creating a glut that has sent prices slumping. 
Prices have recovered some in recent weeks in anticipation of OPEC cuts. But they are still more than $3 a barrel off the cartel's benchmark of $21 a 42­gallon barrel. 
OPEC delegates hope the agreement will, at last, hold prices steady in the coming months. 
Kuwait tentatively agreed to cut production to 1.6 million barrels a day. 
Analysts estimate Kuwait's current output at 1. 7 million to 
1.8 million barrels a day. The emirate has claimed a supply level of 2 million barrels a day -its pre-war pace. 
Ann-Louise Hittle, senior oil analyst at Lehman Brothers in New York, said the difficult talks appear "to have boiled down to a political dispute be­tween Saudi Arabia and Kuwait." 
Saudi Arabia, perhaps OPEC's most influential member, favors lower prices. 
"If OPEC is having so much trouble coming up with this agreement, it's a bad sign for how they will be able to deal with the start-up of Iraq," she said. 
Iraq has been barred from selling its crude since its 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
Senators seek investigation of archivist 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Three senators asked the Justice De­partment on Tuesday to inves­tigate U.S. Archivist Don Wil­son, who granted George Bush control of White House com­puter files while negotiating to become head of Bush's presi­dential library center. 
Wilson may have engaged in a conflict of interest and may have traveled at government expense while he was job hunt­ing, the senators said in a letter to Stuart Gerson, the acting at­torney general. 
Wilson announced Friday he was resigning effective March 31 to become executive director of the George Bush Center at Texas A&M University. 
The public integrity section in the Justice Department's crim­inal division should conduct an inquiry, said the senators, John Glenn, D-Ohio, David Pryor, D­Ark., and Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn. 
In addition, Rep. John Cony­ers, D-Mich., asked the General Accounting Offi~e -the inves­tigative arm of Congress -to look into Wilson's activities. 
Under federal law, it is a felony for an officer of the U.S. government to render decisions on matters relating to "any person or organization with whom he is negotiating or has anv arrangement concerning prospective employment." 
In their letter, the senators said they believe Wilson should have removed himself "from any negotiations, much less formal agreements, concerning these historical materials during his pursuit of future employment at the George Bush Center." The senators called on Wilson to remove himself from responsibilities relating to the records of the Bush administration. 
Wilson signed an agreement at 11:30 p.m. on Jan.19 giving Bush "exclusive legal control of all Presidential information, and all derivative information in whatever form" from 5,000 National Security Council and other White House tapes. The tapes were then moved to the National Archives headed by Wilson. 
Private archivists and the National Security Archive, a non-profit group, said the agreement conflicts with the Presidential Records Act, which states that the government "shall reserve and retain com­plete ownership, possession and control of presidential records." 
The tapes contain hundreds of millions of electronic mail messages regarding all aspects of National Security Council ac­tivity during the Bush and Rea­gan administrations. The Bush 
Are you sick ofpoor sports coverage? Do something about it! 

SMC Sports Meeting 
Thursday, February 18th 7pm LeMans Lobby 
White House had planned to destroy the tapes, but was blocked in U.S. District Court from doing so. 
Last Friday night, Wilson said he was first approached in De­cember about the job at the Bush library center, and that he was hired by Texas A&M President William Mobley and Bush's son, George Bush. 
Wilson had already left the National Archives for the day Tuesday and wasn't available for comment on the request of the three senators, said archives spokeswoman Susan Cooper. 
Wilson had said Friday night that "there is absolutely nothing to" any suggestion that he had engaged in a conflict. 
Before learning of the sena­tors' request for a criminal in­quiry, Wilson issued a state­ment Monday saying he "welcomes any investigation into these agreements." 
They were "drawn up by at­torneys for the various agencies involved, including the De­partment of Justice," Wilson said in the statement. "I was assured by them that they are proper and legal." 
Correction 
In a story in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly reported the dates of the regional round of the College Bowl. The competi­tion will take place Feb. 26 and 28. A quote from the same story was attributed incorrectly to team captain Rob Horton. The Observer regrets the error. 
··~ptttt~~ 
:BARBER SHOP :
All old/new sport reporters must come. 
.HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 • • SAT 8:00-3:00 • 2112 South Bend Avenue •
Anyone is welcome. 
• 
Appointments if desired • • 
272,6722 • Serving t& }.[ptre 'Dame •t communityfor over30 years •

Contact Nicole McGrath X5193 for-more information. 
............ 
-~-------~---~-----...----------~---~~-­


Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, February 17, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .•••.................. David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

What does it mean for a University to be 'Catholic'? 
Dear Editor:  Catholic character is like  
The reason there is so much  arguing that Somalia is headed  
disagreement eoncerning Notre  toward hard times. the  
Dame's Catholie eharacter is  challenge would be to argue  
that there is wide disagreement  that ·Notre Dame has not  
about what it means for a  already lost its Catholic  
university to be Catholic. Some  character.  
note that "Catholie" means  The reason Notre Dame is  
"universal," and then draw the  turning its back on the Catholic  
condusion that Catholicism has  tradition is that it is obsessed  
room for all bPiiefs. but if that  with becoming excellent, and is  
is how we understand  looking to secular universities  
Catholicism, all universities are  for guidance in deciding what it  
Catholic and none is losing its  means to be excellent. Elite  
Catholic charaeter.  universities are ranked by the  
Others understand a Catholic  quantity and quality of the re­ 
university to be one at which  search they produce. One po­ 
there are professors whose  tential problem with emphasiz­ 
scholarship if "informed by the  ing research is that teaching  
Catholic intellectual tradition."  may be de-emphasized. but a  
This excludes a few universi­ far more important, though  
ties, but none in the Western  less-noted, danger is that em­ 
Hemisphere. If that is what we  phasizing research causes  
mean, neither Notre Dame nor  Catholicism to be de-empha­ 
Harvard is losing its Catholic  sized. This is true, not beeause  
charaeter.  there is any problem with doing  
Still others understand a  excellent Catholic research, but  
Catholic university to be one at  because it is more difficult to  
which there are many  publish such research in  
Catholies, and then understand  prestigious journals and with  
a Catholic to be someone who  elite university presses than to  
has been baptized in a Catholic  publish the kind of scholarship  
church. If that is what we  respected by secular universi­ 
mean, Notre Dame is not in  ties.  
danger of losing its Catholic  As Notre Dame Vice President  
character anytime soon. But  Nathan 0. Hatch puts it: "An  
this classifies as Catholic many  ability to attract and nurture  
professors who have lost their  scholars of the first rank points  
faith. as well as many others  to a quiet academic revolution  
who believe that their faith  at Notre Dame." This  
should have nothing to do with  "revolution" probably will im­ 
their teaching and research.  prove our ranking among  
A genuine Catholic university  American research universities.  
is one committed to the Catholic  But it almost certainly will also  
tradition and to academic  remove Notre Dame from the  
excellence and to the  ranks of Catholic academic  
relationship between the two.  institutions.  
but with this understanding of  
what it means for a university  David W. Lutz  
to be Catholic, arguing that  Off Campus  
Notre Dame is losing its  Feb. 16,1993  
DOONESBURY  

Dome should be accessible to all 
For many years the Golden Dome has symbolized the character of Notre Dame: strikingly beautiful, yet very traditional. Of course, it is also very Catholic, as our Lady· perched atop the Dome can at­test to. 
Prospective students and tourists alike inevitably stop to gaze at the Dome whenever they pay a visit to Notre Dame. Chances are they marvel at the shining magnificence of the Dome just as I did when I first came here. But do they know that the Dome is also a symbol of injustice? 
Probably not. After all, the majority of those here don't realize what injustices the Dome symbolizes. Actually, it's not the Dome itself. It's the Administration Building which is cradled beneath the Golden Dome. 
The injustices referred to is the lack of accessibility for the physically disabled at Notre Dame. It's a problem that must be addressed if ND is truly seri­ous about offering one of the best educations in the world. 
The biggest problem facing the Administration Building is simple: it's old. Very old. In fact, it's too old to install an elevator, which poses a severe challenge for those with physical limitations such as wheelchairs or crutches. Constructing an elevator now would be too heavy a load for this aging building. Even a new elevator built outside of the building would not work as this building simply is not sturdy enough to support such a structure. 
Should the issue be discarded then? No way. The lack of an 
Alex Montoya Hook Shots 
elevator forces people like myself with an artificial leg to lumber up an abundance of creaky, exhausting stairs. Each week I must scale exactly 50 stairs just to reach Fr. Malloy's Freshman Seminar class on the third floor. Usually the end of this climb leaves me breathing heavily and in a sweat. 
When I told Monk about this problem, he was extremely ac­comodating. We agreed on a possible solution, but he ac­knowledged one crucial rem­edy: this building needs to be gutted. 
For years this has been of­fered but always as a future project. Too many obstacles stood in the way. How much would it cost? Where would administrators go while the building was under renovation? 
Well, as every disabled person knows, every problem is a solution waiting to happen. eosts should be discussed and 

planned, as every university project entails. As for the dis­placed administrators, they could be temporarily re-located into the new business building that is being created. Or, if the Bookstore is going to change venues -as recent rumors have suggested, then place the Ad­min staff there until the end of renovation. 
But to maintain the present Admin Building is not repre­sentative of this school's char­acter. Are we not supposed to be caring and understanding of other's needs? Are we not sup­posed to be highly educated and forward-thinking? 
If we are, why do we tolerate 
a building that limits the mobil­
ity of the disabled, even for a 
simple trip to the Hegistrar's 
Onice? Why do we allow every 
door to be held with round, 
slippery doorknobs instead of 
metal handles or levers? This 
hampers even an otherwise 
quick trip to Student Accounts. 
The current Administration Building is a constant reminder that I'm disabled. This is unfair -in an institution of higher learning I should be encour­aged to exceed my physical limitations and achieve any dream I possess. But looking at the Dome I feel excluded from a normal lifestyle once I step in­side. Until these changes. are implemented, the Golden Dome will continue to shine, but to me that shine will be very tainted and very false. 
Alex Montoya is a freshman in the college of Arts and Let­ters. He fulfilled his dream of becoming an American legal resident last summer after moving to the United States from Columbia, South America. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Just as a tree without roots is 
dead, a people without history or culture also becomes a dead people.' 
Malcolm X 
Come alive, submit: QUOTES. _P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

------~-------------­
A SUPPLEMENT TO THE OBSERVER 
Alook at cultural diversity issues of race relations on campus 
Black 
athletes face other challenges 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Athletes and African Ameri­can students face a number of 
• see Athletics/page 4 
problems at Notre Dame. But some students shoulder the burden of both. 
Many African American students are also athletes, and some say they face double the problems they would confront if they were only an athlete or only an African American. 
"There are problems which are unique to black athletes," said Demetrius Marlowe, aca­demic counselor for athletes. 
"I believe black athletes stay together and look out for one another, because of the tough situation we are in," said Co­quese Washington, senior cap­tain of the women's basketball team. "We must face the prob­lems of being both an athlete and a black student." 
perpetuating segregation. But she argued otherwise. "We are just trying to get ourselves to­gether," she said. "We...are not trying to get special treatment." 
Last semester, when harass­ing phone calls were at their peak, the African American community responded in their own way. In order to cope with the situation, a number of stu­dents put together a peer sup­port group and an informal escort service similar to Safe­walk, according to Steele. 
The escort service provided a list of male students willing to walk women who were afraid to walk alone and who did not want anyone but close friends to know where they lived, ex­plained Steele. 
But not all students felt an isolated service was necessary. Pat Acosta of the Multicultural Executive Council said this 

Students: More diversity needed at ND 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Associate News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame is a far cry from being a racially sensitive, unified community, according to a number of con­cerned students. 
Over the past twenty years, the University has gradually in­creased the number of minority students admitted (see History page 2). This move towards a more diverse student body has brought race relations to the forefront of campus issues. 
"Notre Dame is going through a period of transition," said Alex Montoya, a Hispanic St. Edward's Hall freshman. "It doesn't know how to react. Notre Dame has more people of color than ever before. It is a shock to the system." 
It seems the "system," in­cluding University faculty, staff and students, is not prepared to accommodate the influx of minority students. So while the numbers have increased, many minorities claim that once on campus the overall feeling is not as welcoming. 
"The typical Domer is a white, male Catholic. Every­thing else stands out," said Stanford junior Tom Steele, an African American. 
The University's preoccupa­tion with tradition and image perpetuates this stereotype, ac­cording to Steele. Those who do not feel they fit the mold must struggle not only to succeed, but to survive, he said. 
African American freshman Cristiane Likely agreed. "A ma­jority of blacks don't feel a part of the Notre Dame community," she said. 
Does racism exist at ND? 
While most students seem to agree that race relations on campus are strained, many say that these problems are subtle and do not often evidence themselves in a open manner. 
"Notre Dame is not radically racist," said Steele. 
"There are other schools that are worse," agreed Montoya. "But unfortunately it (racism) is here." 
Minority students must deal with racial issues daily, accord­ing to Knott Hall junior Kendra 


-
-~----~~---~-­
Commitment to Racial Harmony 
is stronger at Notre Dame than nationwide based on a survey of freshmen at 404 colleges conducted this year by the American Council onEducation. All figures are substantially higher than the previous year. 
Notre Dame Nationwide 
"helping to promote racial understanding" was an essential or important goal 
up9% 42% 
up 10% 50% 
[Source:Public Relations] 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 
Washington, an Afridan American. "People need to be aware of what they are saying and doing. It is the subtle stuff that hurts more.". 
Such unconscious acts can be as simple as a piercing glare, 

NoT~ DAM~ , ..... ~ cVt.:rURAL-PIV~t1Y 
the failure to acknowledge a fellow student, or stereotypical remarks. "Not everything is a racial incident," said Washington. "But...when you are a victim you know what is happening to you." 
Other acts are more overtly anchored in prejudices or stereotypical attitudes, including racial slurs and blatant acts of discrimination, such as a white students leaving a table as a minority student takes a seat, she said. 
Steele, who does not partici­pate in any varsity sports, said that on a number of occasions he has been stopped and asked for an autograph-the assump­tion being that all African American students must be athletes. On other occasions he has been dressed head to toe in Notre Dame attire and stopped by security and asked for his identification-the assumption that all African Americans must be guilty, he said. 
In addition, at the end of last semester, a number of minority females reported receiving racially harassing phone calls. Calls have continued into this semester, according to Steele. 
Minorities stick together 
To many minority students, such discrimination is a new phenomena, said Steele. "A lot of black students on campus came from all black communi­ties," he explained. "This is the first time they have had to deal with that feeling of racism." 
In response to negative atti­tudes, many minority students find comfort in maintaining strong ties with their respective minority communities. 
"Freshman year, that (the support of the African American community) is what kept me here," said Washington. 
However, according to Likely, minority students are often ac­cused of being separatists and 
see STUDENT I page 2 
Administration addresses issues of cultural diversity 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
An institution can tend to treat diversity issues as op­tional, but to Roland Smith, as­sistant to the President, these issues must be the core of social and academic life at a Univer­sity 
Notre Dame has been in the process of moving toward that sort of goal since University President Father Edward Mal­loy took office in 1987. But as the minority group Students United for Respect (SUFR) re­minded the University two years ago, much remains to be done. 
A task force of cultural diver­sity, formed in response to SUFR and chaired by Smith and Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president, re­leased a report in May 1992 and later released an action plan in October 1992. 
Out of that work arose the University's latest effort to ad­dress these issues: the newly­formed Committee on Cultural Diversity, a group of seven ad­ministrators, four faculty and a student. 
The committee has been charged with implementing the recommendations of the task force report, including review­ing cultural diversity in the curriculum, recruiting a more diverse faculty and student body, creating a better balance of minorities ·in the dorms and continuing to emphasize pro­viding more financial aid for mi­norities. 
Smith sees the committee as a facilitator that will coordinate activities. "The existence of this committee does not excuse any member of the community from carrying out their respon­sibility," he added. 
The committee is part of an attempt to show accountability for campus race relations, and will attempt to make Notre Dame "more aware and toler­ant of cultural differences," ac­cording to Iris Outlaw, director of Minority Student Affairs. 
The task force action plan called for a balanced distribu­tion of minorities across cam­pus, diversity in room assign­ments, the use of Lilly Endow­ment grant money to implement or improve diversity programs in the dorms and a review of the rector selection process. 
Much is currently done to ed­ucate hall staff and residents about diversity issues. They are the centerpiece of orientation 
see ND I page 3 
.Students.: NO mustwdo more 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Associate News Editor 
Both whit~+~tudents and mi­nority students were negative about what the University has accomplished to increase awareness of. diversity issues tri reeent years. 
"Things have not been done.~. said Kendra Wash­Ington? "We keep trying to push and push, and they say there is nothing we can do," 
But she admits that Notre Dame's attitude has changed somewhat...They said they were going to do something, w,llieh i:; xpore than they have done in the past!' 
"Ever since SUFR, the administration bas hidden behind the (golden} dome and ignored the issues," said Tyler Farmer. a student senator. "No concrete things have been done. It doesn't seem that the University is very sensitive to the needs of the community ... 
The Task Force on Cultural Diversity is a "joke," argued Tanya Ceja...I don't see any improvementsit has made." 
Israel Verver said the admin­istration needs to open up and address students rather than its own image. "Whete does the administratfon put racism issue on the agenda?" he asked. 
----~-------~-----------------~-~ 
Race Relations 
"When you are a victim you know what is happening to you. You don •t make it up. ,, -KENDRA WASHINGTON 

By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame admitted its first 
minority, an African American, in 
1943. Since Frazier Thompson 
went on to graduate in 1947 with 
a degree in pre-professional 
studies. minority affairs have 
progressed on campus in a many 
ways. with both stimulants and 
impediments. 
The days of Thompson have passed, bringing about the creation of two particular en­dowments which have served to boost the status of minorities at Notre Dame, according to both the admissions and financial aid departnwnts. 
The admissions office also created a minority student visi­tation weekend in the mid-1970's for perspective students and has since designed efl'orts to improve the recruitment of minority students, according to director of admissions Kevin Hooney. 
Also, since coming into exis­tence in 1978, the Office of Mi­nority Student Affairs has completely revamped itself, ac­cording to Iris Outlaw, director of Minority Affairs. 
Under the direction of the Alumni Association. the Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAND) was formed in 1986 to improve the participation of African Americans in alumni events, according to Alumni Association director Charles Lennon. 
Lastly, many University ad­ministrators agree that the ef­forts of University President Father Edward Malloy to im­prove cultural diversity at Notre Dame must be emphasized when charting the history of diversity. 
Financial Aid 
The University cannot attract minorities to Notre Dame without funds to assist their educational pursuits, according to both Hooney and Joseph Husso, financial aid director. 
The trends in minority en­rollment reflect two "watershed years and developments" that boosted minority enrollment to a new level by increasing the funds available, according to Hooney. 
The initial development was the return to post season play in 1970, after 44 years of a self imposed ban, which earmarked all bowl appearance profits for non-athlete minority student awards based on need. 
The second development was the establishment of three mil­lion dollar endowment, to be awarded to needy minority undergraduates. 
"Bather than be subject to the 
football team's successes, the 
university wanted to stabilize the 
source of funds and they did this 
by establishing the substantial 
endowment," said Russo, "This 
gift also provided a stimulus to 
additional giving." 
Most recently, Malloy 
committed himself to improving 
cultural diversity at Notre Dame 
and substantiated this by 
creating an 8 million dollar 
minority enhancement 
scholarship program, according 
to Russo. This gift also brought 
with it strong promises of 
funding from outside donors. 
Admissions 
The admissions office redi­
rected their pursuit of minority 
students in the mid-1970's 
partially in conjunction with the 
increase in the amount of fi­
nancial aid available to minority 
students, according to Hooney. 
Included in this redirection was 
the creation of the minority 
visitation weekend, which is 
entirley funded by the University 
and serves as the culmination of 
the recruitment process. 
"It is an opportunity for per­spectives to stay with current students and see for themselves if Notre Dame is the place for them," said Melvin Tardy, admissions counselor, adding that at least half of the perspectives ultimately enroll. 
The recent drop off in en­rollment of African American students is not a fault of the admissions office's recruiting efforts, according to both Rooney and Tardy. 
"With the SUFR incident, stu­dents many not have felt moti­vated to help recruit perspectives and besides costs to attend Notre Dame have increased. The general mood is down and I don't think admissions is totally responsible for recruitment," said Tardy 
SUFR and minority affairs 
Father Malloy began his term as University President with a focus on cultural diversity and set a goal of increasing under­graduate minority enrollment to 15 percent by 1992. 
But, a build up of problems not addressed during the effort to improve diversity came to a boil when Students United for Hespect (SUFRI staged a day long sit-in at the registrars office, and called for specific actions designed to improve cultural diversity at Notre Dame. 
SUFH, which was created in 1990 as a coalition of students concerned about the situation of minorities at Notre Dame, gathered in the Office of Student Affairs on Jan 21, 1991 and Minority Student A1lairs. 
• The construction of a multi­cultural center to help in the promotion of general cultural diversity. 
The group of 60 students that staged the April18, 1991 sit-in at the registrars office called for open negotiation with Malloy to 
Student 
continued from page 1 
insulted Safewalk. "Not many people have it in them to volunteer for Safewalk. The volunteers take it to heart." 
Acosta, who is Hispanic, also criticized the group for not making this new service avail­able to non-African American minority students who received phone calls as well. 
Tensions between groups 
Acosta's reaetion illustrates the point that racial problems exist even amon,g minority groups themselves. Minority groups on campus can't seem to integrate with other minority groups, aecording to Acosta. 
Israel Verver, president of the Hispanic Club, agreed. "There is definitely a tension between races, " he said. "It is obvious in the way different groups congregate ... After freshman year things are pretty much set. All colors seem to segregate." 
Tanya Ceja, a Kl}ott Hall Hispanic sophomore and member of the Multicultural Executive Council, expressed disgust that minority groups do not work together. African American students on campus don't include other minorities, she said. It isn't a blatant attempt to exclude, but differences in language and culture impeded unity, she explained. 
In an attempt to "encourage unity," the Office of Minority Af­fairs has developed a new or­ganization called "Unity Coali­tion," according to Montoya. The Coalition, which consists of a leader from each minority group, plans to meet once a month to share what each group has been doing, Montoya explained. 
submitted a list of demands to Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs. 
Demands included: 
• The creation of a racial ha­rassment policy. In April of 1991 the faculty Senate and Academic Council approved a policy prohibiting all harassment 
Reverse racism But the problem is even more complex. 
"It is not just Anglos against minorities; it is also the other way around," said Ceja. "A lot of minorities still have the mentality that white people owe them something. Instead of making the enemy the ally, they make the enemy a worse enemy." 
"To say that it doesn't exist the other way around is definitely a fallacy," she added. 
Likely said that she, too,has no­ticed this circular phenomenon . 
"There are blacks on campus that don't like white people very much. I am surprised when I hear it, but there are blacks on campus who think they are superior to whites," she said. 
"It goes both ways with prej­udices," Likely said. Just a black/white issue? When discussing race relations, often the primary focus falls 
"accompanied by intentionally demeaning expressions concerning the race, sex, sexual orientation or national origin of the victims." 
SUFR was not in agreement with the policy, due to its failure to include fines and punishment. 
• Autonomy for the Office of 
upon the African American and white communities. However, the University admits a number of Hispanics, Asian Americans and Native Americans as well. 
"Racial issues at Notre Dame have become very black and white," said Verver. "The His­panic population tends to get lost in the crowd. We are supposed to be the largest minority group on campus, but we are the quietest. 
Most Hispanics, Asian Americans and Native Americans are able to assimilate into white culture more easily than their African American counterparts, said Verver. Jeannie Wong, presi­dent of the Asian American club, and Desmond Etsitty, president of Native American club, agreed. 
However, Verver stressed that though Hispanics, for instance, tend to be less vocal than African Americans, they too are affected by prejudice. 
"We aren't the low-rider 
driving, hubcap stealing people portrayed in many of the movies," Verver said. 
Searching for a solution 
In efforts to remedy the situa­tion many students turn to the University (see sidebar below). 
"The administration needs to realize that it must be a part of the solution," said Verver. 
But other students place less of the burden on the University, and look instead to fellow students for changes of mind and heart. 
"The administration can't give a school diversity," according to African American senior Billy Allen. "It is up to the students to ask honest questions in the dorms and in the classrooms." 
Montoya agreed. "When it comes to improving relations, you can't just sit back and say the administration is not doing anything. We have to take it into our own hands," he said. 
, 
ace is obvious, let's get past that and figure out why we're here and what we need to accomplish." -TOM HAWKINS 
Wednesday, February 17, 1993 

iversity 
out SUFR's demands. The our event attracted approx­e ly 150 African American, 
and Hispanic trators. the aftermath of the 
o nstration, the University e a few changes. One of included the creation of the on of assistant director of Student Affairs. office has just expanded 
·ion to cover all students of where as before the rna­of those benefitted were due to little or no outreach 
. minorities." she said. conjunction with the redi­ion, the office created a 
r program that relieves o'rity students Career and ment registration fee, ac­to Mari Fuentes, assis­director of Minority Student 
m task force 
tlhe wake of the sit-in, Malloy u1ed an open letter to the unity discussing his con­n s of cultural diversity at tre Dame. This letter also 
munced the creation of the !force. e Task Force on Cultural 
ty, which was created by ·esiident Malloy in April of 1991 td Hinished its report in October 
Minorities' struggles at ND span over two generations 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
The time that Ben Finley Sr spent at Notre Dame before graduating in 1960 was a completely different experience fr·om that of his son, Ben Finley Jr. who graduated last year, they both agreed. 
"There were very few African Americans at Notre Dame during my years-only 13. Diversity had not yet met critical mass," said the elder Finley, who was also one of the co-founders of the Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAND). "The environment was changing. Civil rights were only beginning." 
"I was more of a curiosity than a threat. The average caucasian at Notre Dame had never known a minority, especially one his equal" he said. 
"There was probably more acceptance in those days than today because there was no question that I was qualified to be there. It was before the days of civil rights and minority pro­grams so the question of inex­perience never raised it's ugly head," he added. 
"Remember that at that time expectations were not that high; racism was alive and well and we expected racism wherever we went," he said. 
of 1992, established recommendations and impending action plans. 
The final report defined the University's goal of cultural di­versity as signifying "the Uni­versities commitment to an at­mosphere of hospitality and dialogue where these various traditions can together con­tribute to a sharing of perspec­tives in the pursuit of truth. " 
The action plans include: 
• 
more aggressive recruitment of minority students for the Overseas program, 

• 
workshops for faculty and university officials on issues concerning cultural diversity, 

• 
an environment in resident halls which upholds cultural di­versity values, 


The University Committee on Cultural Diversity, which was established by the task force, will meet monthly to "attend to cultural diversity matters on a continuing basis." (see page 1) 
The Black Alumni of Notre Dame 
The Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAND) was created in 1986 to provide communication and networking among the group of approximately 1000 alumni, when it was realized that the group had an extremely low 
The experience of the younger Finley draws a stark contrast to that of his father. 
"It was understood that his generation got in because they were qualified. I don't think that that is understood these days and it leads to students feeling like a quota, stigmatized," he said. 
"With the situation the way that it is now, you can't help but feel that you are a minority at Notre Dame unless you are white. You fall into the frame of mind that you are the only black person here," the younger Finley said. 
It was during Finley's time at · Notre Dame that the SUFR sit-in occurred (see history story). 
"I think that it (SUFR) got a lot accomplished and I supported it 100 percent. Many Notre Dame students don't really know anything other than about themselves and I think SUFR was trying to bring about an important awareness," he said. 
The younger Finley agreed that if he had the opportunity to repeat college, he would proba­bly again attend Notre Dame, but with a few changes. 
"If I could do it all again, I would wish that more blacks were here. That would take a lot of the pressure off, pressure felt to have to be constantly proving yourself as a student," he said. 
participation rate in alumni activities and a general lack of unity, according to · D'Juan Francisco, assistant director of alumni clubs for the Alumni Association. 
"Its just a way of communica­tion. We want to get everyone involved," said Francisco. 
An integral part of BAND is its mentor program that matches current students and alumni together in order to set up a path of communication between the two groups, according to Francisco. 
"It is extremely helpful as a guide for the current students. It is a practical way of networking that can be used to make contacts the same way that any club structure would," he said. "It can also help to boost minor­ity enrollment by helping to re­cruit students." 
The club also produces a magazine of information for its members, The Ebony Side of the Dome. 
"The structure that we have set up when incorporating BAND allows other ethnic groups to come into the process. For example, a Latin-American group is currently being organized in a similar fashion as BAND," said Lennon. 
Q: Does racism exist at Notre Dame? 

VALERIE VILLARREAL 
Farley Hall San Antonio, Texas 
"Yes, to a certain extent. Harassing phone calls occur in which the callers use vulgar language, telling you to go home, go back to your own country or that you do not belong here. I have never experienced these phone calls but I know people who have." 
ZULMA HERRERA 
Badin Hall Pharr, Texas 
"Personally, I have never experienced it. Compared to other universities, it is mild, if not almost non-existent. (At other universities,} we would encounter much friction with the student body, especially with those who consider Hispanics inferior." 
PORTER 
Mo·rri~.~Pv Hall 
><•<>Juu•1,.;•v•<>t D.C. 
"Quite frankly the answer is unfortunately a resounding and undeniable Yes. The atmosphere here at ND is pervasive with racism. The racism here at ND is not only something one feels when you are racially slurred. it is felt in 
very institutionalized ,,..~;trtlctllJre here at ND." 
ESTEVAN HERRERA 
Graduate Student and Spanish Instructor El Paso, Texas 
"Yes~ it is simply an extension and a symptom of a larger problem in our society. Early on I realized I have a choice, I can either dwell on the setback or let it serve as a motivating factor to prove people wrong." 


MIKE TOGNARELLI 
Keenan Hall · Collinsville, Illinois 
..Yes, racism does exist at Notre· Dame. However, as possibly the result of my naivete or my particular circle of friends, I have never experienced racism rrrst hand. Possibly too many of us do not experience it and therefore became insensitive to the very real experiences ofothers." 
Poll taken by Marguerite Scbrop 
HoJpe for the future? ·crertain students have made og:ress. They come ask ques­ms;. Many have changed their 1y of thought or have tried to tde!rstand," said Steele. "That is I wre can ask for-for people to ~delrstand. They don't have to :re•e with us." ~u t neither Steele nor many 
e;r minority students see an d to racial tensions at Notre m•e in the near future. Smme days look real dark, real onny," said Montoya. 
number of students stressed mnnunication and de~rstanding when dealing with ce relations. With such a 
btination, many felt a gradual 
n!!{e is possible. Wre have a long road ahead of " s;aid Verver. Nmthing is going to change >rmight," added Montoya. "It is ·low process, but it is well rtht it." 
ND 
continued from page 1 
for incoming freshmen, resident assistants and rectors, according to Father Joe Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall. 
Resident assistants (RAs) un­dergo an intensive session on diversity issues, including speak­ers and role-playing exercises, said Elizabeth Pawlicki, director of residence life. 
But Mari Fuentes, assistant director of Minority Student Affairs, said there is not enough training for incoming freshmen, RAs and rectors. 
The Office of Minority Student Affairs targets rectors in getting support for speakers and forums, according to Ross. 
Although rectors receive money to sponsoring diversity programs in their halls, the type of programming is the discretion of the rector. 
Lyons Hall is among dorms that have chosen to sponsor an open forum, according to Rector Sister Kathleen Beatty. "We need to educate people and these fo­rums are a great way to do it." 
"They're providing a climate where students can talk openly and honestly," Pawlicki said. "That's the best thing the resi­dence halls can do." 
Although the grant from the Lilly Endowment was earmarked for the promotion of cultural diversity primarily in the residence halls, some funds have also been used to sponsor campus-wide events, according to Fuentes. 
In November, a group of fac­ulty, students and staff attended a prejudice reduction workshop to help them understand and deal with the problem of prejudice. 
"Everybody gets mistreated," said organizer Gary Zimmerman of Manchester College, "and what we're doing is uniting people by showing that similar things are happening to all of us." 
Student government plans to train 20 and 30 of the partici­pants to be facilitators to lead other workshops, according to Student Body President Greg Butrus. 
An event of a different nature was held this month, Pawlicki said. A number of administra­tors, faculty and rectors devel­oped a retreat for 20 sopho­mores from a variety of cultures. 
Through discussion, films and role playing, the administrators hoped to allow students to learn to develop strategies for dealing with racism and empower the participants. 
Butrus and Pawlicki said they are seeking continued funding for such events in the coming year. 
"The hope is that there people take away from it and spread it," he said. 
Administrators agree that it is not impossible to achieve true cultural diversity at Notre Dame. "It's not only possible, but essential," Warner said. 
"If it is not possible at Notre Dame, it is not possible any­where," added Smith. "Addressing these issues is a part of Notre Dame's emerging role as a leading University with a Catholic character." 
SECTION STAFF: 
Jeanne Blasi 
George Dohrmann Sarah Doran Jason Kelly David Kinney Meredith McCullough 
P-~~~----------~--------------~----------------------------------~------------·-------------------­
Athletes address important problems Hair care just one problem 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN attended the second rated prep up to me and told me that if I Sports Writer school in the state of Georgia. "I ever needed someone to talk to for black female athletes get annoyed when my teachers that I could go to him, and that 
I was a freshman, so I didn't there are relatively few ... okay, When visiting room 124 in St. and students are surprised that meant a lot to me," said Sample. 
know any better. Even though because there are basically noEdward's Hall it takes only a I am articulate, like I'm not "I wish that there was more it's the silliest mistake a Black opportunities to continuefew minutes to understand why here because I earned it." people like him, (Athletic female student can make, I'll playing after college, everyJean Joseph and Jeremy Sam­"For me it comes down to Academic Counselor) Demetrius admit, I did it. ' female athlete wants to be ple are friends. time," added Sample. "I just Marlowe and Angie Chamblee I went to the bookstore extremely successful in herTheir similarities go beyond wish that I had the time that (Dean Freshman Year of looking for a jar of Posner Hair sport of choice. So we killbeing athletes-Joseph a soccer regular students do. Being an Studies). Because they are black Grease. ourselves every day in practice player and Sample member of athlete is a year round job. I you know that they can relate. 
I even had the audacity to to be good, then come home the football team. The two realize that I have two roles as You know that they have gone ask one of-'!".____....__ 
and try to study. Let me tell share a passion to address this university, but I think peo­through the same things that 
t h e 
you it ain't easy. The mental,ple don't understand how much you have." 

cashiers if physical, and emotional energy time it takes to be an athlete "I definitely think that there they had it takes to succeed in sportsand because of that how hard it needs to be more people like 
any in the cannot be measured. Just
is to be a student." Demetrius on campus," said b a c k imagine this: at 4:00 you are inAlthough the reception of Joseph. "If I had a big problem 
waiting to class struggling through antheir academic capabilities and I couldn't talk to him it 
\\
be put out. organic chemistry test and bycauses tension, it does not sur­would be very difficult. I would I know. Coquese M. 6:00 you are warming for aprise Sample or Joseph. have to turn to my friends."

~ Silly me. basketball game against the
"I remember going to the Despite the problems that 
Yet, for Washington defending national champions
Jean Jeremy 
dances the first week when we African American athletes face s o m e before a screaming crowd ofJoseph Sample were freshman and the first on campus, Josfilph and Sample 
reason I 8,000 fans. Talk about 
many issues which face African thing people would ask me is feel that perhaps the greatest believe that this little scenario pressure.
my name, but the second was problem is what they see as the
American athletes at Notre is something close to a rite of But probably the toughest
Dame and feel obligated to what sport did I play," said attempt of the students and passage for every black female thing about being a black make people aware of the Joseph. "And on football Satur­University to hide their feelings. 
student on campus. female student-athlete at Notre problems which athletes like days walking through the hud­"In the south if someone Until you've_ been to the Dame is making friends withdle people come up to you and doesn't like you for some rea­
themselves face each day. bookstore looking for some the other women of color on 
"Both being an athlete and ask you for your autograph and son, whether it be because your hair grease, you don't really campus. First of all, there being black carry their own you can only assume that it is black or whatever, you know realize what the next four won't be a plethora of black consequences, but it is the because your black." about it," said Sample, who is years has in store for you. females living in your dorm. 
combination of the two which It is incidents like that which originally from Tennessee. 
· Still, however shocking that And it takes a while to even makes things that much more force African American athletes "People here in the north will go discovery is for the average meet the other black female difficult," said Joseph. to look to one another for sup­out and cheer you on Saturdays black female student, it's even students because we are never That is where it begins for all port, creating the groups of and then turn around and hate worse for us athletes. See, we around. We spend so muchathletes visible on campus. you and everything your about
African American athletes. Be­practice so much and sweat time lifting. running, practicing 
cause the Notre Dame family is "We all find comfort in differ­off the field." 
out relaxers so quickly, it's not and playing games that we 
comprised of many people, ent areas," said Joseph. "For "The University's greatest 
even funny. And y'all wonder hardly have time to developthere are many perceptions of many black athletes their team strength is its greatest weak­why we wear hats all the time? close sister-friend ties with the role that African Americans is their family and therefore ness. The homogeneous makeup {1 solved the dilemma by black females other than those your teammates are the people of the student body is where
athletes play in that family. simply cutting all my hair off!) on the team. Because of our 
For Joseph and Sample, the that know you best and under­many students find comfort and When you walk in the schedule we also miss a lot of classroom is a source of a lack stand you." in essence is the 'Notre Dame bookstore and can't find even a the social events planned soThe groups bond is internally family' as most think of it," said
of respect for their academic small jar of Posner's, it's as if black females can get together 
abilities, which causes great re­strengthened due to the lack of Joseph. "On the other hand, the Gap Band came out of and socialize. After a while sentment. African American teachers and students are not exposed to nowhere and started singing folks just quit asking you to do "Sometimes I wish l carried faculty available to look to for differing viewpoints that are "You Dropped A Bomb On Me" stuff because they know you my high school transcript on my guidance. carried by different races, cul­right in your ear. are going to say "I would, but chest," said Joseph, who "I remember my freshman tures and backgrounds." 
That's right, it's hard being we have to ... ". As a result, we year coach (Earle) Mosley came 
an African-American female tend to become very close to athlete on this campus. our teammates but don't know Besides the hair situation, the many other black females well. pressure to succeed Sometimes, too, it seems as if academically is enormous. See, the black female students on 
Issues of race permeate long history 


of Notre Dame's athletic program 
we are expected to do better campus feel we don't want to than our male counterparts be bothered with them, or thatBy JASON KELLY on the main floor. 
because we don't have the lure we think we are better thanSports Writer "When we found that out, my teammate Eddie 
of a professional athletic them because we're athletes.
Gleason asked 'where is there a place we can go career and the distraction of It's as if because we're athletes1\velve years before the civil rights movement and watch a movie together,"' Hawkins possibly making one gazillion we won't have any interests in entered the nation's consciousness, Notre Dame explained. "So we got into a cab and found a samolians (as the master of common with them, so that'swelcomed its first African American student-ath­theater where we could enjoy a movie as a group. 
dry wit, Bugs Bunny, would why we just hang with eachlete. "I was never put in a situation where I had to say} if we left school early. other. True enough, we don'tWhen Frazier Thompson enrolled at Notre be the only. As a representative of the University, Then we have pressure from always have the time nor theDame in 1943, his presence was sign of change at my blackness didn't have to be a lead card," he the athletic department to do energy to make sure ourthe University-change that was not prevalent said. 
well because, as they say, we Fashion Fair cosmetics arethroughout much of the rest of the nation. Some African American athletes didn't feel as not only represent ourselves, carefully applied, and we willThompson's arrival may have been the first step much a part of the University environment. 
hut the entire university as throw on a sweat suit andtoward cultural diversity in athletics at Notre With so few African American students on well. And being that we are some Nikes in a minute. JustDame, but it did not speed the process. campus, there was no natural place for them to black and females we put the same. we do long for thoseBy 1951-52, basketball players Entee Shine and turn. Sometimes getting away from the pressure on ourselves to excel close sister-friend relationships Joe Bertrand were the only African American University situation was the best way to ease the and prove wrong all those who with black females other thanstudent-athletes at Notre Dame and there were burden of separation. 
subtly hint .that you don't our teammates.
only a handful of others among the general "It was tough because there was such a small belong here, you can't make it Yes indeed, it's hard being an
student body. number of black students at Notre Dame at that But the athletes faced special problems. time," said Dick Arrington, a football all­here, and if you weren't an African-American female 
athlete or a minority you athlete at Notre Dame. But it's 
There is a natural separation between ·students American in 1965. "The University never wouldn't be here at all. no harder than being anand the athletes that they cheer on the playing discouraged us from participating in campus 
The worst comes, though, Asian-American chemical
fields. In the racial climate of the early 1950s, events, but sometimes we chose to do other when you do mess up. You engineering major, a Native­some African American athletes felt even further things." 
can't just suffer through a bad American class president, or aremoved from the white-dominated environment As time passed, the number of African semester in the privacy of your Latin-American cheerleader.
at Notre Dame. American students at Notre Dame grew slowly own dorm room. Instead, your As a minority student on this"There were some problems because the but steadily. By the 197 4-7 5 school year, nearly business will be all over the campus you learn to deal withUniversity wasn't too experienced in dealing with 150 African American students attended Notre Observer. You could just be the obvious absence of peopleblack athletes," Shine said. Dame, but that made up less than three percent browsing through Security of color in personnel '(diningThe University tried to bandage the problem by of the student body. 
Beat and see this: hall and dorm workers notencouraging its African American students to More minorities began to enroll at Notre Dame, "A Notre-Dame student­included), in course offerings,participate in campus events, hoping that the but the problems didn't change. Only the focus athlete from Farley Hall, who in the student body, and in wall interaction would breed understanding. changed. 
incidentally is academically murals (Yo Monk! How comeTom Hawkins, a basketball all-American in It became a question of class more than a ineligible this semester after there ain't no brothers on the1958 and 1959, is one former African American question of race. 
failing finance, was wall?). Or you leave. 
student-athlete who appreciated the school's Valerie Ellison came to Notre Dame from Utah transported to the Infirmary But being the optimist that Iefforts to unite the student body. in ~ 980. Her background was stereotypically wh.en she sustained head am, I try to look for signs of"Notre Dame was outstanding during that white, as were her sports, swimming and softball. 
injuries after falling from her positive change. As a matter ofperiod. Segregation laws were still prevalent Ellison was the only African American on the loft while sleeping." fact, just last week I was in the throughout much of the country," said Hawkins, teams, but her problems didn't come from her No, your personal anguish bookstore buying some soap,now the vice president of communications for the teammates. 
will not be confidential. and I couldn't believe my eyes! 
Los Angeles Dodgers. "Notre Dame made it "My problems were with the black community. 
Instead, your academic An entire section of one shelfperfectly clear that where l wasn't welcome, the I was raised in a white environment and some difficulties become topics of was stacked with those easilyUniversity wasn't welcome." people said I was trying to be white," she said. "I discussion in the dining ball identifiable yellow and redAnd there were many places on Notre Dame's was accepted by the people in my sports, but the and LaFortune. bottles of Care Free Curlathletic schedules where blacks weren't welcome. separation that I felt was from the blacks." 
Coupled with these internal products. They had everything; Travelling through the segregated South posed Hawkins believes that any feelings of separation and external pressures to do activator, moisturizer, even no­some problems for Notre Dame's athletic teams in need to be eliminated before racial harmony can well in class, there is also the drip gel. I was pleasantlythe 1950s. be achieved. 
competing desire to be the surprised. Now look, black
At the 1958 NCAA regional finals in Lexington, "I think students need to move away from "Mac" in your sport. Because people, don't laugh. After all, itKentucky, Hawkins and his teammates went polarity and toward universality," he said. "Race there are limited... because is a step in the right direction. 
downtown to see a movie. But the theater had is obvious, let's get past that and figure out why segregated seating, blacks in the balcony, whites we're here and what we need to accomplish." 



Accent 
Wednesday, February 17, 1993 page 11 

Shamrocks ••• 
and the shirt 
The Observer/ Sean Farnan 
Senior Class President Joe Huston and Vice President Kelly Fitzpatrick display the St. Patrick's Day shirt. The shirt is a fundraising activity for St. Hedwig's Outreach Center. 
Senior class designs festive shirt to commemorate St. Patrick's Day at Notre Dame 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, Life, Whatnot 
Lent: Be all that you can be 
T he first of January has come and gone. And so have my New Year's resolutions. 
So far, this year has been like all the 
rest. I organize myself. I make lists of goals of what I want to accomplish and how I'm going to accomplish them. They're usually quite lofty, of course, and then I proceed to come up with new and ingenious ideas for why I'm post­poning actually starting to take action. 
But Spring Break is fast-approaching. And with fun-in-the-sun comes a golden opportunity to reach for the sky, start anew and be all you can be-LENT. 
Yes, that's right. LENT. Forty days and 40 nights of sacrifice. Or at least, that's what Sister Clarine Paulzine always used to say. 
But Lent is more than not eating sweets. It's bigger than resisting a good 'ol tall frosty one at the Commons. It's way beyond sweating on a Stairmaster every morning. It's about what you can do to make yourself a better person. 
This year, I'm going to work on improving my own SELF in a multitude of ways. And I'm going to do it by trying to emulate some of the people I respect the most. For example ... 
• Michael Jackson, a.k.a. "The King of Pop" 
He wowed America last week when he told Oprah that in addition to Brooke Shields, he truly loved every person in the world. That includes me-Michael really loves me. I can die happy now. 
I want to Be Like Mike this Lent-with a heart the size of his backyard amusement park. And my own personal llama wouldn't be too shabby either. 
• Mary Jo Buttafucco 
What can I say? She's one tough cookie. Standing by her man, she became the Butt of America's jokes (pardon the pun). Donahue embarrassed her, NBC and ABC turned her life into a living hell and she lost some kind of vital muscle control on one side of her face, leaving her even more unattractive than before. And for what? It turns out that everyone already knew he was screwing that little tramp, Amy. But she persevered. 
• The professor from Gilligan's Island 
He never actually had a name, but "The Professor" could do anything. He was always fixing the radio, he single-handedly created a working dentist's office, and he could invent almost anything out of a coconut. He was smart. damn it. Ok, Ok, he couldn't make a boat that floated-but hey, nobody's perfect. 
• The Naked Guy at Berkeley 
You know him-the Berkeley student who took a stand against conformity by sporting only a backpack and sandals to class. He's constantly battled with the authorities but has stood up for what he believes in-even if the thought of it does make you want to hurl. .. 
• Doogie Howser 
He's got his own TV show, he's employed and he gets action on a regular basis. What's not to like? 
• 
Jerry Seinfeld He's funny. End of story. 

• 
Chelsea Clinton 


C'mon, you know the Gore children make fun of her behind her back. She's just not an attractive young lady-in fact, she's ugly. But it's not her fault-she's just "at that age." Chelsea should be applauded-she's one classy pre-teen. You never heard her complain when her cat was splashed all over the front page of the New York Times, did you? I'm telling you .. .this is not your average 12-year-old. 
Take the Lenten challenge: Be all you can be. 
Jahnelle Harrigan is Accent editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
By MATT CARBONE Accent Writer 
Christmas at Rockefeller Center. A sunny August afternoon in the Wrigley Field' bleachers. Mardi Gras in New Orleans. 
every month they bring the chil­dren to campus for a dinner. This past week, the seniors held a Valentine's Day dinner for the kids. 
"The Center feeds the kids five nights a week, and pays emergency medical bills," said Joe Huston, 
Senior Class 
The perfect place at-,---,------.----P r e s i d e n t . 
the perfect time. This Were lucky thiS year is how the Senior Class tO be On campUS for 
officers feel about St. Patrick's Day at Notre St. Patrick's Day for 
Dame, and this is the . idea behind their 1993 the Second year In a St. Pa!ric~'s Day shirt. row We hope to give
Begmmng today, the · 
Senior Class will be the studentS selling its shirt around . campus, with the pro-somethmg to ceeds _benefitting St. remember it by,
Hedwig's Outreach · 
Center, the senior -Joe Huston for an class' service project interesting for the past four years. way to St. Hedwig's is a-------------commemorate 
" They're a l m o s t 
constantly in 
need  of  
money."  
This  is  

where the St. 
Patrick's Day shirt comes in. Looking for a way to raise money for St. 
Hedwig's, and 
house in downtown South Bend where underprivileged and single-parent children can go after school to do homework, play, and have something to eat. · 
Twice a week, NO seniors go there to tutor the children, and St. Patrick's Day, the two interests dovetailed into the shirt. 
It's a unique time of year for students. We're lucky this year to be on campus for St. Patrick's Day for the second year in a row. We hope to give the students something to remember it by," said Huston. 
Senior David Colgan, a fourth year architecture major and roommate of Huston's in Dillon Hall, designed the shirt. Huston said that the officers "couldn't approve anything too crazy like students' shirts are, so we tried to make it a classy sort of thing .. .I think Dave did a really good job." 
The shirt is green with a gold shamrock over the left breast, with the words "St. Patrick's Day Notre Dame March 17, 199 3" encircling the shamrock. On the back is a 
-
large clover framing a shining Golden Dome. 
The Senior Class has printed 7 50 shirts, said Huston, and would "be more than happy" to print more. Since the shirt sales begin so close to Junior Parents' Weekend, Huston suggests that the shirts would make a great gift for visiting parents. The shirts cost $10, and will go on sale today at the LaFortune Information Desk and through dorm representatives; by the end of the week, they should be available in the Bookstore. 

~ ---~---..... 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 17,1993 
Bledsoe talks about draft, Mirer in NFL scouting combine notes 
The Observer accepts ctasslfieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day ciassifieds is 3p.m. Ali classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: Gold circle earring on a $$ FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT We have an awesome hotel room in dangling hook at Keenan I need a ride to Indianapolis NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO Daytona for Spring Break, but we Adoption: Doctor and teacher will NOTICES Revue-1/28 for Spring Breakll FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR need 2 more girls to go in with us. make dreams for your baby come Call 284·5254 Vince 272-8503 2773097 Only $130 for the week + gas $. true. Full-time parenting. Best of the Call Nicole or Michelle x4530. city; summers by the beach; your 
TYPING 287-4082 LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. YO! 3 BEDROOM HOUSE baby rocked to sleep by a cozy Lost on 2/9/93. REWARDIII If I NEED A RIDE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. fireplace in winter, and by oceanTYPING 256-6657 
found contact Buffy at x3772. To DE, PA, So. NJ SECURITY SYSTEM waves in summer. Art, music, the for Spring Break 232-3616 best education, endless love. CallPart-lime work in LOST: heavy gold tone chain link Call SEAN x1605 HI Meg, Felicia, Shannon Franny or Stephen collect. 
publishing/distribution. Creative 
bracelet somewhere between north BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WE MISS YOU! (212)369·2597.
skills, 
quad and Debartolo on 2/5. Great NEEDED: A RIDE TO DES 219-291-7153.
PC knowledge helpful. 
sentimental value . Call Liz x1345 MOINES FOR SPRING BREAK­"'SPRING BREAK LOANS'"PO Box 1349 South Bend~N 
JEREMY X1750 4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR
46634 Found: jacket at Corby's the first SUMMER SCHOOL. ••••••••"SENIORS""'••••• From the week of school. Call271-7288 and NEED 50 people Fri GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ask for Mary to identify. 8-ttAM $10/h 2879118 PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL lAST DAY TO BORROW'SENIORS' 
MONICA 232-2794. From the 30 Day Loans $5 BUS TO CHICAGO LOST-Men's black wool dress coat CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Up to $250This Friday during ISO party. -Was Christmas Earn $2,000+/month + world travel 6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM Is @1% lnlerest Scavenger Hunt 
gift. Please call Chuck at #3277 (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. FRIDAY FEBRUARY 19th
Bus Leaves 6:15pm 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career AVAIL. NOW. SUMMER, OR Monday · Fridayreturns 3:30am LOST LOST LOST LOST employment available. No FALL.272-6306 30 Day Loans @ 1% Interest 11:30. 12:30SIGN UP NOW@ LAFORTUNE BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER experience necessary. For Up to $250 1st Floor LaFortune INFO DESK GLOVES at SOUTH DINING employment program call O'Hara Lounge HALL on Fri. 2112. CALL JACKIE at 1·206·634·0468 ext. C5584. Mon.-Fri. 11:30-12:30'THE DATING GAME' 
I 
FOR SALE 
x2205. 1st Floor LaFortune 
Come to Senior Bar 
Help Helpl Help! Help! Helpl O'Hara Lounge Where can you get
This Thurs 8:00 Spring Break Plane Ticket to/from 
At the DILLON FORMAL, we Desperate female seeking ride to PIZZA
Donations taken for St. Hedwigs Philadelphia for sale -cheap. Call
switched long, green coats. Mine Washington D.C. for Spring Break. CHIPS &SALSA 
Sarah x2969 
is blue-green with apple stitches on Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call NACHOSClass T·Shirts are now in II the inside. Call Molly x4121 Leah@ LOVE FROM TEXAS TO THE MOCKTAILS
$8 TOYOTA TERCEL, blue
284-4308, leave message. BEST KEPT SECRET AT NOI BEER (0 proof) 
buy @ Sr. Class Office 1981 good shape, 
Lost: one watch at the Holy Cross BEAD NECKLACES
standard. Call Scot @4013 
Formal while at Holy Cross. If Babysitting Position KSS...HAPPY BELATED MUSICThe Official St. Patrick's Day T·Shirt found, please contact Eric at '4284. Looking for 1 full time or 2 part time VALENTINE'S DAYI ... GCL DANCINGonly $10 
students to babysit in our home for AND MORE
I TICKETS 
Lost: Long, forest green wool our 11 month old child. Must have All for FREE? coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our references and own transportation. I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS At SADD's PSYCHO SOIREE coats were accidently switched · I Please call for an interview ... 287-FOR THE MARQUETIE GAMEIIIIII Top 15 Quotes from HoJo's (a 60's revival) 
••••• SENIORS ..... 
have a similar, bluish-green coat. 3297 Please call Chris or Mike x1117 Room 2231111 Thursday, February 18 Please hurry · JPW is coming up I LaFun Ballroom
Help. Our president has gone ••• HELP •••
Call4966. 15. Many are called, none are 8·10pminsane. Joe Huston has priced the 
Are you going to Iowa City on Desperately need 3 chosen.
Senior Class trip to Chicgo for only 
Did you take the wrong navy blazer Friday? Please take me, I want to Marquette tix Ill 14. What a spudl Doran·$5 on sale at LaFortune. Also class from the Lyons-Howard formal on visit my friends at the University of call Brian x4-1417 13. Existentialism has a lot to do Nights in red satin? 
shirts for only $8, sweatshirts for 
February 6? Iowa for the weekend! Will help pay -even if just have one! with your crotch. 
$25 and St. Pat's shirts for just $10 
I am missing a Wimbeldon brand gas &tolls. CALL Molly at x1311 12. Doing a butter down the stairs. ...And so it begins all available in the class office. If 
blazer from that dance and 11. Amy's serenading farm animals. ·Muffin Tush 
you see him don't panic. Call NO PERSONAL
desperately need it for JPW this We need a ride for 2 to U of I 10. Hey, what's that on the sheet? 
Security Immediately. Thank-you. 
weekend. on JPW weekend. Will pay 9. Hey, what's that under the 
JB, KF, and AK 
Please call nm at 1422. gas and tolls and keep you ADOPTION: Were you sheet? entertained on the ride. overwhelmed when you found out 8. I swear we were just talking I Call Jess at 2725. you were pregnant? We were 7. Good Gravy! I 
dippin'
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's WANTED 
overwhelmed when we found out 6. Hook-ups and the immaculate in the Bookmobile 12·4 daily 233­
Ride(s) needed to Washington DC we couldn't have children. We're a conception.
SUMMER JOBS area for spring break. Flexible on Catholic nurse/doctor couple 5. I've been dissed for dirty dishes II2342 NO Ave & Howard 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS date and time of departure. Will happily married for 9 years. If you 4. You guys, I'm so hornyII II ECON TUTOR 
help pay for gas and tolls. Call and want your baby to grow up with 3. Do you want the room for the ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINSPrinciples/In! 
ask for anyone at X4721 or X4758. patient, loving parents, a large entire night??
NEAR LAKE PLACIDManageriai/BCA 
is for
extended family, & two very sweet 2. That's Sassy! 
CALL 1-800-786-8373. -Need Ride to Michigan State dogs, please call Mary and Michael 1. Someone could come to rape
Call Tony Sindone 
1·325-8918 
for JPW. 1-800-759-6039. and pillage-LEAVE THE DOORAdoption-Active, Young couple 
Call Tom 1232 OPENIIIIIIII
wants to adopt your bundle of joy. To our GOLDEN GIRL in Walsh Rider sought returning from spring 
Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call HELP I Hall I We are so looking forward to break in SFOISAC area. Call Brian Peggy 1-800·682-8628.
3677. 
I need a ride to the D.C. 
JPW not because it is our "second." 
dips
area for break. Will help not because it is our last, but
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT· TOM with gas and tolls. because we will spend an entire '"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS!
GRE TUTOR 
Make money teaching basic 288-6578 conversational English abroad. 
Call X3823. weekend with you. You are the BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 sunshine in our family, Erin. We love MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH 
Japan and Taiwan. Many provide you. Mom and Dad. KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, Eat the GRE for lunch lit room & board +other benefits I 
dippin'
FOR RENT DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, 
Make $2,000-$4,000+ per month. CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, 
No previous training or teaching HEY ALL YOU HOOVERSI JAMAICA $47911-800·678·6386. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
certificate required. For employment Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom
You found my sportcoat. Please NAMAST'E
program call: House now for 93-94 school 
call back: 288-3839 or HOOVER YA TONIGHT AT
(206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. year 234·1886
1· 7226 (days). THE HOOVER!! 
is for
Pregnant and feeling alone with no
Mothers helper needed part time LOST· Men's tan leather jacket with where to turn? We offer confidential 
days and evenings. Perfect for HOME BED & BREAKFAST 
leather gloves in the pockets. Lost French high school student, 16 yrs counseling at no cost to you. For
summer job also. Must be friendly, AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON during the I.S.O. party at the old, looking for host family or more information call Nancy at 232·
with experience and own car. 232· WEEKENDS.
Greek Orthodox church. Please call exchange in July or August. 5843.
2201 219-291-2899.
Rich at x4153. 
Interested call 271-8621 
dips 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Quarterback Drew Bledsoe of Washington State, who may be the No. 1 draft pick, discusses the NH. combine in the last of three articles based on interoiews by AP sports writer Hank l.owenkron. 
•
(/\P) -The NFL Scouting Combine is over, and I feel I had a good performance. 
It was interesting. We r··.·.',liiJ·' ..,
·.·..·.·
didn't get to throw a ilf~ J 
whole lot of balls, but I I 
think I completed all I. ....... ~ 
but one of the passes I ' ·c;~:;lllll' r 
threw to receivers. The ., workout was pretty IB:id 1'''''--llt''!l' .. · back, a lot more la1~ Drew Bledsoe 
back than I thought It would be. I thought the atmosphere was prntty casual. 
The workout started with us throwing just to the other quarterbacks. 
We each took a three-step drop, a five­step drop, a s1wen-stop drop, we rolled out and did some movement in the poeket style drills. That was all videoed up dose. Then we got together with the receivers. 
I threw some sideline routes and some takeoffs so that the scouts could watch them catch the ball. Then we got together and ran routes, quick-outs, quick hitches and slant patterns, deep outs, a takeoff and a corner. 
We also did agility drills and sprints, but I didn't run. The other guys ran 40s and did some agility drills. I did vertical jumps and went 32 1/2 inches. 
Tho A.ll """' r<>"ll" th<> nnlv thinO" 
didn't do, mainly because I feel like in another two or three weeks of training, with better weather than we've had in Washington, I could put up a better time than I would here. I also did the broad jump. I went about 9-feet-3, pretty much average. The quarterbacks did have to lift weights, like others at the combine. 
Sunday, I had a big steak dinner with the Seattle Seahawks. It was just a case of getting to know coach Tom Flores, the team's new president, the offensive coordinator and Mike Allman, the club's director of player personnel. 
We just sat back and talked. It was very much like my meetings with the New England Patriots. In neither case did we discuss specifics and I don't have any feeling that either team has decided I'm the guy they want to pick in the first round of the draft. 
I feel good leaving the combine and heading back to Washington. I've finally got the first step in this scouting process completed and was able to have all the pro scouts see me. I was able to talk to a lot of different people. At least now, I'm doing something and not just sitting at home listening to rumors. The hard part of my situation right now is being on the sideline and not actually be able to do much to influence what will happen in the draft. 
I've talked to most of the teams, some more extensively than others. The Patriots, the Seahawks and the Green Bay Packers are the teams that I visited with the most. Since New England and Seattle have the top two picks, I'm honin11 onP of thPm selects me p,arJv because I don't want to be sitting around waiting to learn my fate. 
Hick Mirer of Notre Dame is reportedly the other top quarterback in this year's draft. 
He didn't work out, but that's fine because he felt he could do better at a later date. Rick's a great guy. We talked quite a bit and I'm looking forward to meeting with him again. I want to talk to him more in the next few months and just work out a few things, as far as what he's going through and what I'm going through. 
It's one way to make sure the teams are being up front with us. He and I are probably the two best quarterbacks in the draft, so the teams that need a quarterback will be talking to us. So, if we can keep in contact with us we can make sure they are being straight with us. 
v 
The Observer/M. Schropp 
Drew Bledsoe talked about the importance for Rick Mirer and himself to keep in touch during the scouting process. 
Page 13
February 17, 1993 The Observer 
~ ..... ····· ..... ...... ....... ...... ..... ..... ...... ...... ,<-".. 
~~ ~~ 
: ·: ·: :::::::::::::: !;,-'., e.-..
€) ~'~\\ ~ A , '\\ ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . : " 0 ~ ~;) ~ 
~ \~" ., w ·~,~dt~~/ • : : • : : : • • • : : : : : : : : • • • : : ~,~,:,~'Jtl ~ 'IJ) .~ 
' _.... ••••• ••••• ••••• • • ••••••• •••••• ••••• • • • • •••••• '¥ ' 
-
TRANSACTIONS  NBA STANDINGS  
American League DETROIT TIGERs---Ageed to terms with Mike Hennem"" and Marie Leiter, pitchers, on one-year contrecta. MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Agreed to terms with Ricky Bonee, pncher, on a two-year contract end Carlos Maldonado and Angel Miranda, pitchers, on one-year contracts. OAKLAND ATHLETICs-Agreed to !arms with Edwin Nunez, pitcher, on a mlnor~eague contract and Scott Baker, Mike Mohler, Klrt Ojala, Curtis Shaw, Tanyon Sturtze, and David Zancanaro, pitchers; lzzy Molina, catcher, and Scott Lydy, outfielder, on one-year contrecta. TORONTO BLUE JAYs-Agreed to terms with Duane Ward, pltchar, on a three-year contract. BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaeoclatlon DALLAS MAVERICKS-Signed Morlon Wllay, guard, to a 10-<lay contract. United Statee Baaketball League ATLANTA EAGLES-Named James Gatto dlrcetor of free agent camps and assistant dlractor of player personnel. FOOTBALL National Football League DALLAS COWBOYS-Named John Blake defensive line coach. DENVER BRONCOs-Named Bob Ferguson head of the scouting department and director of player personnel. Canadian Football League OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS--Signed Gregg Stumon, linebacker. Arena F ootbell League TAMPA BAY STORM--Named Roberl Heffner dlractor of player personnel and line coach. HOCKEY National Hockey League BUFFALO SABRES-Recalled Doug Macdonald, center, from Rochester of the American Hockay laegue. SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Dean Kolstad, defenseman, and Michel Picard, left wing, from Kansas City of the International Hockay Leegue. International Hockey League PEORIA RIVERMEN-Asslgned Petar Kesowskl, forward, to Deyton of the East Coast Hockay Leegue. OLYMPICS USA BASKETBALL-Named Joan Bonviclnl, Arizona women's basketball coach, coach of the 1993 USA World University Games women's basketball team. COLLEGE COTTON !!OWL ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION­Reassigned Jim Brock to advisor and consultant to the president. Named Jim Ray Smith team selactlon committee chairman and John Scovell vice chairman of the teem selection committee.  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlelon w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home New York 32 16 .667 8-2 lost 1 21-4 New Jersey 29 21 .580 4 6-4 Won 1 16-8 Boston 26 22 .543 6 6-4 lost 15-7 Orlando 23 22 .511 71/2 5-5 Won 14-10 Phlledelphla 18 29 .363 13 1/2 2-8 Won 9-15 Miami 17 31 .354 15 5-5 Won 1 11-12 Washington 15 34 .306 171/2 3-7 lost 3 10-13 Central Dlvlalon Chicago 34 17 .667 6-4 Won 1 16-8 Cleveland 33 19 .635 11/2 8-2 Won 3 22-5 Charlotte 26 22 .543 61/2 7-3 lost 1 13-11 Atlanta 24 25 .490 9 5-5 lost 1 12-12 Indiana 22 28 .440 111/23-7 lost 7 13-11 Detroit 20 28 .417 12 1/2 3-7 lost 1 14-9 Milwaukee 20 29 .408 13 4-6 Won 2 13-13 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweet Dlvlalon w L Pet GB L1D Streak Home San Antonio 33 14 .702 9-1 Won 8 22-4 Utah 32 17 .653 2 6-4 Won 1 18-7 Houston 28 21 .571 6 6-4 Won 1 16-8 Denver 20 29 .408 14 7-3 lost 1 17-7 Minnesota 11 35 .239 21 1/2 4-6 lost 2 5-19 Dallas 4 43 .085 29 1-9 lost 5 4-23 Pacific Dlvlalon Phoenix 36 10 .783 8-2 lost 1 19-1 Seattle 31 17 .646 6 4-6 Won 1 20-4 PorUand 29 16 .644 61/2 5-5 lost 1 18-8 LA Lakers 26 22 .542 11 6-4 Won 3 14-10 LA Clippers 25 25 .500 13 4-6 lost 1 15-10 Golden State 22 29 .431 161/2 2-8 Won 2 11-11 Sacramento 17 32 .347 20 1/2 2-8 lost 2 12-13 Monday'• Game• Chicago 119, Sacramento 101 Cleveland 110, Indiana 105 Mlaml130, Denver 129, 2QT Utah 112, Minnesota 91 Milwaukee 128, Charlotte 122 San Antonio 102, LA Clippers 99 Tueaday'a Oamea Dallas at New York, 7:30 p.m. Milwaukee at New Jersay, 7:30 p.m. Orlando at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Houston, 7:30 p.m. Boston et Phoenix, 8 p.m. Washington at Seattle, 10 p.m. San Antonio et Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Atlanta at Portland, 10:30 p.m. Wedneaday'a Gamea Denver at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Detroit at Miami, 7:30p.m. New York at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Dallas at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Sacramento at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Utah at Chicago, 8:30 p.m.  Away 11-12 13-13 11-15 9-12 9-14 6-19 5-21 18-9 11-14 13-11 12-13 9-17 6-19 7-16 Away 11-10 14-10 12-13 3-22 8-16 D-20 17-9 11-13 11-8 12-12 10-15 11-18 5-19  Conf 23-10 18-13 20-14 15-15 14-21 1D-22 8-23 21-11 22-11 17-15 15-20 15-20 18-16 14-17 Conf 20-10 19-11 16-12 12-21 6-23 1-29 24-7 22-10 19-11 17-14 15-17 15-12 11-18  How the top 25 teams ----.ou r-fess college basketball poll fared on Monday: 1. Indiana (22-2) did not play. Next: VII. Illinois, Wednesday. 2. Kentucky (18-2) did not play. Next: vs. South Carolina, Wednesday. 3. North Carolina (20-3) did not play. Next: VII. Clemson, Wednasdey. 4. Arizona (17-2) did not play. Next: VII. Arizona State, Thursday. 5. Michigan (19-4) did not play. Next: at Penn State, Wednesday. 6. Kansas (20-3) did not play. Next: vs. Oklahoma, Wednesday. 7. Duke (19-4) did not play. Next: at No. 23 Virginia, Thursday. 8. Cincinnati (19-2) did not play. Next: at South Florida, Wednesday. 9. Florida State (19-6) did not play. Next: at North Carolina State, Wednesday. 10. Wake Forest (16-4) did not play. Next: VII. Maryland, Wednesday. 11. Vanderbilt (19-4) did not play. Next: at LSU, Wednesday. 12. Utah (19-3) did not play. Next: VII. Air Force, Thursday. 13. Arkansas (16-5) did not play. Next: VII. Tennessee, Tuesday. 14. Purdue (15-5) did not pley. Next: at No. 1 Indiana, Sunday. 15. UNLV (16-3) did not play. Next: vs. New Mexico State, Saturday. 16. Seton Hall (18-6) did not play. Next: at No. 25 St. John's, Wednesday. 17. Pittsburgh (15-5) did not play. Next: VII. Boston College, Tuesday. 18. Tulane (18-4) beat Canlslus 63-41. Next: VII. N.C.-CharloHe, Thursday. 19. Massachusetts (17-4) did not play. Next: at Buffalo, Thursday. 20. Iowa (14-6) did not play. Next: VII. Ohio State, Tuesday. 21. New Orleans (19-2) beat Louisiana Tech 69-41. Next: at lamar, Thursday. 22. Louisville (14-6) did not play. Next: VII. Western Kantucky, Tuesday. 23. VIrginia (18-5) did not play. Next: VII. No. 7 Duke, Thursday. 24. Marquette (17-4) did not play. Next: at Notre Dame, Wednesday. 25. St. John's (14-6) did not play. Next: VII. No. 16 Seton Ha11, Wedneedey. How the top 25 teems In The Assoclaled Preu women's college basketball poll fared Monday: 1. Tennessee (22-1) did not play. 2. Vanderbin (21-1) did not play. 3. Iowa (19-1) did not play. 4. Colorado (21-1) did not play. 5. Penn StaiB (17-2) did not play. 6. Auburn (21-1) did not play.  WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlelon w L T Pta GF GA Pittsburgh 37 15 5 79 241 184 Washington 28 22 8 62 230 204 NY Rangers 25 24 9 59 226 \221 New Jersay 27 24 4 58 198 195 NY Islanders 25 25 6 56 230 205 Philedelphle 19 28 9 47 214 228 Adama Dlvlalon Montreal 35 18 6 76 240 191 Quebec 30 18 9 69 230 205 Boston 31 22 5 67 231 206 Buffalo 29 22 6 64 246 200 Hartford 15 37 4 34 180 256 Otlewa 7 48 4 18 134 277 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Dlvlalon w L T Pte GF GA Chicago 32 20 8 72 205 166 Detroit 31 21 7 69 254 201 Minnesota 29 21 8 66 202 190 Toronto 27 22 8 62 191 174 St. Louis 25 26 8 58 200 209 Tempe Bay 19 35 4 42 180 216 Smythe Division Vancouver 32 17 8 72 246 176 Calgary 31 19 7 69 227 191 Los Angeles 25 25 7 57 224 239 Winnipeg 25 26 6 56 207 219 Edmonton 21 29 8 50 166 215 San Jose 7 48 2 16 152 298 Monday'• Gamea New York Rangers 4, St. Louis 1 Los Angeles 3, Vancouver 0 Tueaday•a Game• Edmonton at New York Islanders, 7:40p.m. Philadelphia vs. Calgary et Cincinnati, 7:40 p.m. Washington at San Jose, 10:40 p.m. Wedneaday'a Oamea Boston at Montreal, 7:40 p.m. Buffalo at Hartford, 7:40 p.m. Ottewa et Quebec, 7:40 p.m. Sl Louis at New Jersey, 7:40 p.m. Calgary at Toronto, 7:40p.m. Tempe Bay at Detroit, 7:40p.m. Los Angeles at Minnesota, 8:10p.m. 13. Texas (16-5) did not play. 14. North Carolina (19-3) did not play. 15. Varmont (20-0) did not play. 16. Stephen F. Austin (18-4) did not play. 17. UNLV (18-1) did not play. 18. Southern Cal (15-5) did not play. 19. Western Kentucky (14-6) did not play. 20. Clemson (15-6) loa! to Duke 67-65. 21. Northern Illinois (16-4) lost to DePaul 64­ 
AKRON-Suspended  Torrey  Kershaw,  7. Ohio Stale (16-3) did not play.  66.  
forward, Indefinitely from the basketball team for  8. Louisiana Tech (19-3) beat Arkansas State  22. Nebraska (18-5) did not play.  
conduct detrimental to the team.  72-66.  23. California (14-5) did not play.  
BROWN--Named Nick Polk football recruning  9. Texas Tech (18~) did not play.  24. Oklahoma Stale (20-4) did not play.  
coordinator.  10. Stanford (17-5) did not play.  25. Hawaii (21-3) did not play.  
CINCINNATI-Promoted  assistant  baseball  11. VIrginia (17-5) did not play.  
coach Bruce Gordon to head coach.  12. Maryland (17-5) did not play.  


Join together with seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). CIA is aone day working session during which the South Bend community will join forces with t~e students, faculty, and stall or Notre Dame and St. Mary•s to renovate and repair the homes or the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents South Bend neighborhood. 
...
SIGN UP TODII 
11 AM tO 2 PM, 4 PM tO 8 at the Library Concour---c11!1" 
LIMITED SPOTS AVAILABLE 
--< :; ·.. ~ l.....liL .#------­
.---------~-~--------------------~--------~~---­
page 14 
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 17,1993 
Cooley 
continued from page 20 
his best time was a 2:03 his sophomore year, a second short of the provisional qualifying time. 
"Last time (sophomore year) I dropped seven to eight seconds when I shaved and tapered," said Cooley. "This year I've been swimming between 2:04 and 2:07, so I should be within range." 
The Irish swim team next competes in Philadelphia, Pa., at the MCC Championships the week after next. But Cooley, along with Tanya Williams, the only Notre' Dame woman swimmer to make NCAA's, won't be there. Instead, they'll remain on campus to rest for their big chance -the Eastern Intercollegiates in Cleveland. 
The events of last season forced him to rethink his swimming career. 
"The summer before junior year I was doing a lot of run­ning and dry-land training," Cooley said. "Right before I came to school I hurt (my knee). I didn't train for breast­stroke last year and only com­peted in it twice." 
He took six months off from training to try to let the knee heal, but he didn't know what to expect. 
"I wasn't even sure if I could swim this year," he said. "But when I got back in September I started training intensely. 
"I usually do other stuff in the summer, because it's easy to burn out. I love competing, but it has to be fun." 
Cooley credits his teammates for the help they've given him in chasing the NCAA's. 
"We all have individual goals," he said of his team­mates, "but we can't reach them without the support of the team. I think one reason we swim so well in meets is that we compete so hard in prac­tice." 
He'll need that support to achieve that goal and set a milestone iq the process -be­coming the first Irish male swimmer to reach the top level of college swimming, the NCAA Championships. 
WOULD 
$40,000 
HELP WITH COLLEGE? 
You can earn more than $15,000 during a standard Army Reserve enlistment... 
Andanother $5,040 ifyou qualify for the Montgomery GI Bill... 
Plus if you have or obtain a qualified student loan, you 
.. 
could get help paying it off­up to $20,000-ifyou train in certain specialties. 
Andthat's for part-time service-usually one week­end a month plus two weeks' Annual Training. 
Think about it. Then think about us. And call today: 
(2 I 9) 234-4187 
BE ALL YOU CAN IlL' 
ARMY RESERVE 
Series 
continued from page 20 
Freshman Trish Sorenson of 
Mound Westonka High School 
(Minn.) attended the first two 
weeks of conditioning and try­
outs for the Notre Dame softball 
team and the coach was not 
sure which walk-on she was 
going to keep. After talking to 
the coach, Sorenson decided 
that with work, chorale and 
pre-med classes she was taking 
on too much. 
"I was totally overwhelmed by everything," said Sorenson. "I just decided that academics were more important." 
Wendy Eckelkamp, a fifth­year senior, was an All-State setter on the St. Francis Borgia (Mo.) State 3A championship volleyball team her senior year, but chose not to pursue volley­ball because of her involvement in music and the performances she would have to do. 
While some might assume that having the additional free time would help in terms of academics, Ward is an example of former high school athletes who have had to adjust in other areas. 
"It seemed like when I played hoop, hoop motivated every­thing else like school work and 
stuff. After hoop, I had to reor­
ganize the things that I had to 
keep going after I didn't have 
basketball," said Ward. 
Susco has found a new love in 
acting and will be in the upcom­
ing play, The Heidi Chronicles 
while Krueger has filled his 
time with studying and com­
munity service. 
Although he is not an athlete, 
Monaghan found a way to get 
his varsity jacket and stay in­
volved with athletics. He chose 
the Student Manager's Organi­
zation and earned the coveted 
position of football manager. 
Monaghan is happy with the 
decision he made. 
"Before the Cotton Bowl right we had one of our final scrim­mages, in fact it was the final scrimmage at Loftus. If I would have tried out, I would have tried out at running back. I saw Rick Lozano, a walk-on running back on the scout team, getting just mauled, and they had to carry him off the field. He was just really banged up and I thought to myself, 'Here I am still enjoying all the aspects of Notre Dame football and still being able to walk.' At that point, I knew I made the right decision," said Monaghan. 
All of these athletes, as well as other former high school athletes, have turned into 


recreational ones staying active 
with jogging, interhall sports, 
pick-up games, and recre­
ational tournaments. Even so, 
some encounter problems in 
finding adequate competition. 
Eckelkamp became very disil­lusioned with the interhall vol­leyball leagues. 
"I quit interhall. It was not competitive enough. I am used to a more serious type of vol­leyball. I end up in a limbo sit­uation. I'm a step above most in interhall, but not good enough to be on the team," said Eck­elkamp. 
Making time to work out has also troubled former athletes. "Now you have to make time to do it, before you had a set practice everyday. It was part of your normal schedule. Now, it is easy to say, 'Well, I've got other things to do, I'll do it to­morrow,'" said Heniff. "It's harder because it is not a set schedule and you have to make it fit into your schedule." 
Reactions to not playing var­sity athletics in college vary with each individual. Many fac­tors play into the decision and some did not have much choice. Quite a few miss varsity athletics, while others are thankful for the time to do other things. 
"I don't know if it's a bad thing that I didn't try it because this school has offered me a lot more to do, and I feel better about myself and what I have done ... I don't regret not doing it because I have done so much more and I have experienced so much more as well as athletics in high school," said Krueger. 


e ore 

-
Thursday, February 18, 1993 8-10 p.m. Lafortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) sponsored bv SADD 
Women's Self Defense Class 
6 week class starting 2/23 
Morning Classes -Limited Space 
Flex & Sweat Aerobic Club 
255-1755 
anee 

I 
Wednesday, February 17,1993 The Observer page 15 
Surprise St. John's earns respect 
Penn State hopes to pull upset this time 
from Seton Hall, Big East (AP) -Taking No. 1 Indiana to the wire three times last
(AP) -When the Big East about their kids, a lot about the 
week won't help Penn State's
schedules were handed out program and university, but the 
chances when No. 5 Michigan
there was no reason to circle thing it says the most about is 
visits on Wednesday.
Seton Hall-St. John's. It was one Brian Mahoney and his staff's 
Michigan coach Steve Fisher
of those games that every ability to coach. 
has tried to make it clear to his
conference has to have: the "If you watched this team 
team that it shouldn't overlook
league's best, facing a program during the year, they are prob­
the Nittany Lions, Big Ten cel­
in transition, one picked to fin­ably the most improved team in 
lar-dwellers who took Indiana
ish near the bottom of the the country in terms of how 
to two overtimes before falling
standings. they have developed as a team. 
88-84.
Well, it's here and it did de­The thing that is most impres­
"Life on the road with all of 
serve a circle -a big, red one. sive from a coaching standpoint 
us can be treacherous," said
Seton Hall goes to Madison is how well they play together. 
Fisher, whose team lost to In­
Square Garden on Wednesday They put that team together 
diana 93-92 on Sunday. "It
night with a No. 16 ranking and very well." 
happens all the time every year 
a chance to catch first-place St. Mahoney took over this sea­
to somebody.
John's. son following the retirement of 
"Indiana escaped with a vic­
That may not sound right, but Hall of Farner Lou Carnesecca, 
tory. Penn State played their
it's correct. St. John's, the team who won 526 games and took 
hearts out and deserved the
picked by the conference St. John's to postseason play in 
victory. Everybody felt that way,
coaches in a preseason poll to each of his 24 seasons. The 
myself included," Fisher said. 
finish ninth in the 1 0-team Big coaches' poll showed what most 
Indiana won after a call de­
East, comes in with a No. 25 people thought of the Redmen's 
nied Penn State a chance to
ranking, a one-game lead and a chances. 
seal up a victory in regulation.
load of respect from P.J. Car­Things were even lower, 
The schedule-maker made
lesimo. however, when they were 4-3 
Michigan the next foe to visit
"I was one of the knuckle­after a pre-Christmas loss at 
6,846-seat Recreation Hall, the
heads that voted St. John's Indiana. Things turned around 
smallest arena in the Big Ten
low," the Seton Hall coach said with a good showing against 
and where fans stand within a
Tuesday in admitting he had Kentucky in the ECAC Holiday 
yard of the court. 
the Redmen eighth on his bal­Festival. Since then, St. John's 
"I've never been there. Our
lot. has gone 9-2, all in conference 
players have never been there,"
"They're in first place and play. The Redmen sit in first 
Fisher said. "We better be
we're in second and it's a big place at 9-3 (14-6 overall), with 
prepared mentally as well as
game and I think that says a lot Seton Hall at 8-4. 
physically. They proved with their Indiana game that they're r:M:--:-~.,...----d-:---.-V~--:-1-----::t~------:-,---:D=-----="7 for real and they're capable of' s s e a e n ' n e s a y . playing with anybody, especially 

Hoosiers in the Big Ten stand­ings (Illinois is 2 1/2 games back of Indiana). The Wolver­ines' agenda now is to nail down a top seed in an NCAA regional. , 
"If we can't catch them we want to be the second best team in the league," Fisher said. "We've got an outside chance at a No.1 seed." 
Penn State and Michigan have played twice before, but not since 1951 when the Nittany Lions took a 62-60 victory at a tournament in Pittsburgh. 
team you can get better against when you're struggling," Penn State coach Bruce Parkhill said. The Wolverines are bigger and more physical than any team the Lions have played. 
The Fab Five -Michigan's sophomore starters who ad­vanced to the NCAA title game last year as freshmen -are hitting nearly 51 percent of its shots and averaging 82 points per game. Forward Chris Webber is averaging 19 5 points, 9.6 rebounds and 2.9 blocked shots. 
Penn State's John Amaechi is averaging 14.3 points and 6.9 rebounds per game. DeRoo Hayes average is down to 14.7 points per game after being held to no points against Ohio State and six points at North­western in the last 10 days. 
"Watching Michigan is like watching a college all-star game," Parkhill said. 
IRISH GARDENS SALE! · 
• 
I dozen roses-$20 • I /2 dozen roses-SI 0 

• 
pre-made bouquets­• carnations/ daisies­


$2 (reg. $4} $ I per stem Basement of LaFortune 
J 2:30-5:30 
Visa/MC accepted Delivery to ND/SMC/Off Campus 
in their building." 
With its loss to Indiana, Michigan (19-4, 8-3) fell a full three games behind the 
INDIANA Avro INSVRANgOur good rates may save you money We now offer a Good Student Discount Call fer a quote
9 a.m.-5 p.m. 289..1993 Offia lvxr ro Cantpu.s 
Michigan won a 1929 meeting 32-11 at Ann Arbor. 
The Lions (6-13, 1-9) are coming off a loss at Northwest­ern that knotted Penn State and the Wildcats at the bottom of the Big Ten standings. The Lions' continued poor free throw shooting that helped them lose to Indiana last week. 
''I'm not sure Michigan is a 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted employment offers to join us after graduation. 
William A. Allen, Chicago Jennifer L. Blanchet, Chicflgo Maureen E. Brown, New York Joseph S. Burke, Chicago James A. Burkhart, Jr., Cleveland David D. Cathcart, Atlanta William L. Dietz, Minneapolis Patricia A. Fosmoe, Chicago Thomas E. Hitselberger, Jr., Baltimore Scott D. Kamenick, Chicago Maureen P. Kenny, Chicago Susan M. Kurowski, Chicago 
R. Geoffrey Levy, Atlanta 
William D. LaFever, Chicago Michael P. MacKinnon, Boston Michael R. Malody, Los Angeles Erin M. McCauley, Washington, D.C. Kelly A. McDonough, Cleveland Arthur R. Monaghan, Minneapolis Melissa L. Mong, Houston 
R. Patrick Murray, II, Indianapolis Kerry L. Norton, Chicago Angela C. Pearson, Chicago Kathleen M. Phares, Chicago Richard M. Riley, Chicago 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 
Eric A. Rojas, Boston Kevin A. Rule, Chicago Mark A. Schmidt, Atlanta Robert M. Silveri, Stamford Edward A. Smith, Long Island Jeffery G. Stark, Milwaukee Tricia J. Tilford, Phoenix Scott J. Vickrnan, Minneapolis Julie Ann Vaccarella, Chicago Lynn I. Vandermeulen, Chicago Kevin C. Weinman, Charlotte Michael E. Wendowski, Indianapolis Tina M. Wojciechowski, Chicago 

page 16 The Observer Wednesday, February 17,1993 
Rodman returns and leads Detroit past Orlando; Suns top Celtics 
(AP) -Shaquille O'Neal had a career-high 46 points on 19­for-25 shooting, but he missed 
five straight free throws  - in­ 
cluding four in overtime  - as  
Detroit got the win 124-120.  

Dennis Rodman, playing in his first game after missing more than a month with a torn calf muscle, had 12 rebounds and scored four points in over­time. 
Joe Dumars tied his season­high with 39 points -he also had 39 against Orlando on Jan. 2 -on 16-of-26 shooting. lsiah Thomas had 19 assists. 
" 
Rockets 149, 76ers 111 
The Houston Rockets shot a franchise-best 68.5 percent, and Robert Horry had a career­high 29 points in a victory over struggling Philadelphia. 
It was a season-high in points and the largest victory margin for Houston since beating Dal­las 117-96 on Dec. 5. Philadel­phia lost for the seventh time in eight games. 
Houston's best previous shooting performance was 66.7 percent against Portland in 1984. The NBA record is 70.7 
Dennis Rodman returned to the lineup and helped the Pistons thwart off 
46 points from Shaquille O'Neil. 
Jensen 
continued from page 20 
New York scene. 
The great state of Ohio had its big names, from Brian Sipe, Clay Mathews, Pete Johnson and Dave Concepcion to Dave Collins, Mario Soto, Tony Ber­nazard and Andre Thornton. 
Even the smaller markets had guys to cheer for, as they went nuts in Wisconsin for Cecil Cooper, Hollie Fingers and Lynn Dickey, and up in Minnesota for 

AP file photo 
Rod Carew, Roy Smalley, Butch Wynegar and Ahmad Rashad. 
Baltimore had Ken Singleton, Bert Jones, and Scott McGre­gor, and don't forget the great state of Texas, which boasted Robert Reid, Larry Parrish, Bob Knepper, Jose Cruz, Cesar Cedeno, Terry Puhl, Enos Ca­bell, and Cowboys Bob New­house and Doug Cosbie. 
And finally in the Windy City we were enraptured by Julio Cruz, Steve Trout, Lamarr Hoyt, Chet Lemon, Larry Bowa, Brian Bashinagel and Gary Fencik. 
percent by the San Antonio Spurs in 1983. 
Suns 110, Celtics 97 
Phoenix had a backcourt va­
cancy against the Boston Celtics 
with Kevin Johnson idled by a 
bruised calf muscle. So Charles 
Barkley, the Suns' starter and 
stopper, took over. 
"This was a grind-out game," said Barkley, who had 32 points and 12 rebounds and led Phoenix with nine assists during a 110-97 win over the Celtics Tuesday night. "I think tonight without KJ we struggled a little bit." 
The Suns also got a strong game out of Tom Cham­bers, who scored 22 points on the receiving end of many of Barkley's assists and also had 12 rebounds in leading Phoenix to a 49-40 edge on the glass. 
Knicks 117, Mavericks 87 
Rookie Hubert Davis hit his first seven shots and finished with 18 points in the New York Knicks' 117-87 rout of the Dal­las Mavericks on Tuesday night. 
Davis, averaging 4.0 points on 41.7 percent shooting in his last six outings, got plenty of opportunities against the Mavericks, who stayed winless on the road this season. He made 9 of 11 shots for the game. 
Sean Rooks led the Mavericks with 23 points. Charles Smith scored 16 for New York, which has won eight of nine games and is 22-4 at home. 
The loss dropped Dal­las to 0-21 away from home, with only one of those losses by less than 14 points. The Maver­icks are 4-44 overall with six consecutive defeats. 
Playing without leading 
While I'm sure you cheered for different players and had different heroes than I did, I hope you appreciate this look back to a magical era, to a time of innocence long past-the early eighties. 
. 
• 
scorer Derek Harper because of a strained hamstring and leading rebounder Terry Davis because of back spasms, Dallas led 16-12 before a 16-0 run put the Knicks in front to stay. 
New York, which placed seven players in double figures, went on to lead 34-20 after one period and extended the margin to 68-41 at halftime, surpassing its previous first-half high of 63 points. 
Nets 100, Bucks 88 
Drazen Petrovic and Derrick Coleman combined to score 25 of New Jersey's 29 fourth­quarter points Tuesday as the Nets rallied for a 100-88 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks. 
Petrovic finished with 28 points -including 11 in the fi­nal period -and Coleman added 27 points and 16 re­bounds as New Jersey won for the fifth time in six games and registered its sixth straight vic­tory at home. 
Milwaukee appeared to be on the way to its third straight win when Eric Murdock hit a 3­pointer with 1:48 left in the third period, giving the Bucks a 71-61lead. 
But New Jersey went on a 21­6 run bridging the third and fourth periods and took a 77-75 lead on a layup by Coleman with 9:44 left. 
After Brad Lohaus tied the game at 77-77, Petrovic tallied five straight points to give New Jersey an 82-77 edge. 
The Bucks battled back and closed to 86-85 on a 3-point basket by Blue Edwards with 
6:11 to play, but the Nets scored 12 of the next 14 points ­including eight by Coleman ­to wrap up the victory. 
The Nets hit on just 16 of 46 first half shots and committed 13 turnovers but trailed only 43-41 at the intermission. 
After building an early 11-4 lead, New Jersey saw Milwau­kee put together an 18-5 burst to take a 22-16 lead. Edwards had six points and Frank Brickowski and Murdock each added four in the spurt. 
The Bucks led 40-33 late in the second period after a basket by Alvin Robertson. But New Jersey tallied eight of the last 11 first half points to trail by just two at the intermission. 
Nets coach Chuck Daly was given two technicals and ejected from the game by ref­eree Joe Crawford. 
Happy Birthday., 
C::l:1e:e:se: ::EKe:&a..c'l. 
from 
The Morrissey · Peoples Front 

• CLASSIFIEDS • 
•
• 
~~::::::::--. ••
• •• • WANTED: I •• 
• 
•• PROGRAMMING ASSISTANTS :
• •• • FOR 1993 -1994 • 
• 
•
: Three paid positions open to students who 
•
• •• will be responsible for planning and 
• implementing programs sponsored by the . 
Office of Student Activities •
•
• 
: Preferred qualifications: Leadership and :programming skills, creativity, ability to :work on a team, desire to enhance student
. 
:life through unique and creative programs . 
•
•
• 
:Applications are available in the Student
•
:Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and must 
•
:be returned by March 5th. Interviews will ·be conducted March 15th-19th. Please sign up for an interview time when you turn in 
•
• your application! 
. 
• Questions: Call Gayle Spencer 
. 
. • at 631-7308 . 
• 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .... . . . .. . . . . . ..... 
.
• 
........................~----~~-.--------~ 
Wednesday, February 17,1993 The Observer page 17 
----------------------~~~~~--------------~--~---------~--------~---------.----------· 


photo courtesy of the Indiana Pacers Reggie Miller's name has surfaced in trade rumors. 
trades that can be done under Richardson and forward Sam the salary cap." Mitchell. 
Since entering the NBA in The move has partially 1976, the Pacers have reached achieved its intended effect of the playoffs five times, includ­improving team defense and ing each of the last three sea­chemistry at the cost of offen­sons. But they've yet to make it sive productivity, Walsh says. past the first round. But that hasn't translated into 
Indiana's most desired result: 
On Sept. 8, Walsh gambled by more wins. sending high-scoring forward The Pacers are two games Chuck Person and point guard ahead of last year's pace, but MiCheal Williams to Minnesota have the ninth-best record in for point guard Pooh the Eastern Conference. 
ABC/Turner close to deal on Olympic coverage 
STUDENTS! 
(AP) -Turner Broadcasting System Inc. and Capital Ci­ties/ABC are discussing a pos­sible joint bid to broadcast the 1996 Summer Olympics from Atlanta, officials with both companies confirmed Tuesday. 
"We have determined we are interested in an Olympics package, assuming that it's fi­nancially feasible," Turner spokesman Gary McKillips said. 
"ABC Sports has always looked for creative ways of do­ing business," ABC Sports spokesman Mark Mandel said. "We've done it in the past, worked with Turner in the past." 
The Wall Street Journal re­ported Tuesday that the com­panies may televise the 1996 Games on four networks: ABC; ESPN, a sports channel that is majority owned by Capital Ci­ties; and TBS and TNT, cable 
Notre Dame 
Student and senior Thursday and Ticket Office. 

The College Year in Athens 1993 -1994 

The Department of Classical and Oriental Languages. and Literatures in cooperation with The Office of I~tematiOnal Studies Programs is receiving applications ,for 1ts program in Athens, Greece. 
No knowledge of Greek is necessary. 
Courses: Art Ancient Greek History Medieval Greek Modem Greek Philosophy Religion 
Eligibility: Sophomores (One or two semesters) Juniors (One or two semesters) 
For Students of: Anthropology Art Classics Economics English Philosophy Theology 
Informational meeting 
Thursday, February 18, at 4:30 PM Room 205 DeBartolo 
networks owned by Turner. 
The four outlets could broad­cast different portions of the Games simultaneously, giving viewers more choices of Olympic events to watch, the newspaper reported. 
Neither company would con­firm that report. 
"Turner Broadcasting is cur­rently in the process of deter­mining if it has a role in the 1996 Olympics. Speculation on what that role might be is pre­mature," McKillips said. 
"We have had discussions with Turner Broadcasting and ESPN concerning a co-presen­tation of the Atlanta Olympic Games," said ABC Sports President Dennis Swanson. "However, it would be prema­ture to speculate on any specific proposals at this time." 
If the companies reach a deal, it would be the first time two networks have bid for the Olympics jointly. Neither com­pany has set a deadline to submit a joint bid, McKillips and Mandel said. 
Traditionally, Olympic cover­age has been the property of a single network, although CBS farmed out pieces of the 1992 Winter Games to Turner and NBC set up a pay-per-view op­tion with three cable channels for the 1992 Summer Games. CBS paid $543 million for the 1992 and 1994 Winter Games and NBC's price for the 1992 Summer Games was $401 mil­lion. 
"ABC Sports enjoys a good working relationship with Turner Broadcasting that began with the pre·sentation of the Pan American Games from Havana, Cuba in· the summer of 1991," Swanson said. "ABC Sports will also be a partner with Turner 

page 18 The Observer Wednesday, February 17,1993 
Coaches take stand for Campanelli FSU suspends Sura, Edwards for 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -For the first time in that. rematch with North Carolina 
.. 
-
its 66-year history, the National Association of Basketball Coaches publicly condemned the firing of one of its members as it came to the support of Lou Campanelli on Tuesday. 
The NABC, signaling a new attitude concerning a coach's role in the administration of the sport, accused the University of California of treating Campanelli unfairly and called his firing "a shock to the college basketball community." 
"The NABC is not a judicial body, but the association must be concerned with the treatment of its members," the NABC said 

in a prepared statement.  
"We can see  no evidence of  
eoach Campanelli being granted rights that everyone deserves. If  ·  thm"'"··· .'8111.  

his employer had concerns Lou Campanelli regarding his job performance, he was entitled by fair standards to be informed and notified of the seriousness of those concerns in a timely manner and provided an opportunity to respond." 
Campanelli unexpectedly was fired Feb. 8. His young team, led by star freshman Jason Kidd, was 1 0-7 and had beaten several highly regarded teams, including UCLA and Louisville. 
The NABC's 16-member board of directors, which includes many prominent coaches, met for almost 1 1/2 hours by eonference call Monday to discuss Campanelli and what they view as a trend toward midseason dismissals. 
"We will be looking at all firings," NABC executive director Jim Haney said. "Whether we like it or not. we know there are hirings and firings in this business and that the firing part may not be an aspect that's always palatable. But it's one that does exist and we have to accept 
"As we look at these situations, we'll look to see what happened and try to support the coach." 
Cal officials have said Campanelli was fired because of abusive behavior toward athletes following recent games. 
Cal athletic director Bob Bockrath fired Campanelli hours after meeting Monday morning with a group of six players who aired their com­plaints about the coach. Bockrath denied the meeting represented anything close to a player insurrection, although he did say some players threatened to leave the school. The NABC said Cal's action was "particularly disturbing due to coach Campanelli's history of success at James Madison University and at Cal." 
The NABC noted Campanelli's record at Cal was 123-108, that he had earned postseason berths in four of his seven seasons, and that 18 of 23 senior student-athletes had graduated. 
"Two who have not graduated are presently completing their degrees," the statement said. "Coach Campanelli has had no reported NCAA violations -quality freshmen and sophomore student-athletes have been recruited. Eighteen months ago, Campanelli signed a new five-year contract to coach the team through the 1996 season. 
"After beating UCLA on Jan. 24, coach Campanelli received a communication from director of athletics Bob Bockrath commending him for the good work he was doing," the NABC said. 
The NABC has no real clout within the college community and is trying to increase its presence in the rule-and policy-making process. 
The statement also praised interim head coach Todd Bozeman for being "supportive and loyal to coach Campanelli and his program." 
Top ranked Indiana awaiting Graham's return 
(AP) -As if things couldn't have to go easy on it and that get any better for No. 1 Indiana, might be the case even I can the Hoosiers may soon regain come back this season." the services of reserve 
swingman Pat Graham. 
The I Ioosiers (22-2, 11-0 Big Ten) are riding an 11-game winning streak. have "\ won a p 

national-best at Graham ual work," Garl said. "The big 27 straight at Assembly Hall, thing is cutting, moving later­and hold a 2 1/2 game ally, and he cannot do that right conference lead over second­now." plaee Illinois with the toughest part of their schedule behind "You try to increase the in-
Gar! it would .be "too specula­tive" to say when Graham could return, other than to say it could be before the regular season ends March 13 or 14. 
"His status is he's still hurt. He's not practicing yet with the team. He's doing some individ­tensity as the pain allows it," Gar! said. 
Graham, with a career aver­age of 7.6 points per game, was redshirted last season after breaking a different bone in the same toe. He recovered and averaged 8 points in the Hoosiers' first three games this season, before re-injuring the foot in the NIT preseason tour­nament against Florida State. 
Graham wore a cast for two weeks, before graduating to a special walking boot. He's been walking under his own power for several weeks, Gar! said. 
them. Now it appears Graham, who 
Happy Birthday, Michael P.
has been out since Nov. 25 when he broke the little toe on 
his left foot, may recover in time to rejoin Indiana before next months' NCAA tourna­ment. 
Born a Bender,
The 6-foot-5 junior is jogging, bicycling and using a stair­
We're proud you're 
climbing simulator up to three hours a day, team trainer Tim 
a domer.
Gar! said. 
Love,
"I hope I can return to the 
MomandDad
lineup as soon as possible," Graham said. "This injury is just one of those things where you can't rush it. If it hurts, I 

(AP) -Florida State coach Pat Kennedy suspended his top two scorers Tuesday for the ninth-ranked Seminoles' game Wednesday at North Carolina State. 
Bobby Sura, the Atlantic Coast Conference's third lead­
ing scorer with a 20.8 average, and Douglas Edwards, averaging 18.5 points a game, each received 

a one-game Doug Edwards suspension for "missing an excess number of classes." 
"It's a very serious suspension because we're looking at being in the race for a regular season championship," Kennedy said. 
"You're always upset when the kids don't sustain their academic responsibilities." 
The Seminoles and North Carolina are tied for first place in the ACC with 9-2 league records. 
North Carolina State (7-13) has played much of its season with only eight players, losing others to injuries and aca­demics. 
Edwards and Sura also are the team's leading rebounders. 
Edwards' 10.4 rebound aver­age in conference games ranks second in the league while Sura's 6.6 average is second among the Seminoles. 
Edwards also missed Florida State's season-opener for failing to take a final exam last spring. 
The Florida Board of Regents established a rule several years ago to suspend athletes from games if they fail to take tests. It is known as the "Deion Sanders rule," named for the former Florida State star who failed to take any of his final exams in his last semester at the school. 
Kennedy was undecided about his starting lineup for Wednesday's game. He could use fifth-year senior Lorenzo Hands and ·go with the three­guard lineup or open with a big front line including freshman Maurice Robinson. 
r-----------======~==============~1 I 
VIL.LAGE 
LANDING 
SUNDAY BRUNCH 
10 a.m.-2 p.m. 
Omelettes Made to Order Belgian Waffles each Peel & Eat Shrimp
$2 OFF person in 
Prime Rib 
your party
Beverage Included 
52565 US 33 N. at Darden Road 
North Village Mall 
272,8180 expires 2/21/93 
r ----Now-openr----, ,1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUAUl'Y SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
announces two presentations by 
JOAN CHITTISTER 
Woman Icon: Rebel or Saint 
and 
New Theology ofEve: The Story ofWomen 
Saturday, Feb. 20, 1 p.m. Carroll Auditorium-Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College Admission $3 C.S.C./SMC/ND with i.d Registration at the door, 12:30-1 p.m. 
Information: 284-4636 
I I I I 
I FREE I 
I I 
1Regular 6" BLIMPIE Sub Sandwich with 1 1 the purchase of any Sub Sandwich of I I equal or greater value. I 
I P!ease present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or 1 duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per visit. 1 Customer must pay any sales tax due. 1
Not good in combination with any  
I  other offer.  Cash value 1/100 of 1¢. Offer expires 3/31/93.  I  
I  at  I  
I  Martin's  I  
1  Ir onwood Plaza North  1  
1  S.R. 23 & Ironwood  1  
1  (219) 273-2234  1  
I  Fax: (219) 273-2445  I  

L----------------~ 
Today
Wednesday, February 17,1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
l'M Mf..KING fl.. IT WILL 8t Ct>.L\.ED 'IER'i 11'\SP\RI~G. W~fl..T ~0\J'R.E MOKIJMENTf\L, "Tlit TRIUMP\1 OF WILL \T LOOK LIKE ? T\-\RO\JG\i ? ~EROIC. S~()'tj t'ERSt.\JERI\1--lCE .'' 
SC.VLPIURE. ~ 
y 
"Well, I'll be.... I must've been holding the dang work order like this!" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Instructive &O Myopic Mr. of example cartoons
How's that 30 Etonians, for &1 Steelers'again? 
some ex-coachBarnstorming 34 They hang high 
action &2 Decrease
at Yuletide Most worthless 36 Stick close to 63 Synthetic fiber part 
37 TV newswoman &4 "The African Artful dodge 
Magnus Queen" Elmer's was 
38 Volunteer work? scriptwriter popular in the 42 Placido, once 65 It used to be40's 43 Mold of a kind enoughAutry flick, e.g. 
44 Meant 66 "Home, Sweet Jack of TV's 45 Dry run Home" man"Easy Street" 46 Roving 67 Fan'sBedouin, e.g. 
49 Absent letter at disappointmentFor all, in music 20,38 and 53 68 "Oh, heck!" 
DOWN 
1 Br. navy member 2 One of the Bowls 3 Speedily, speedily 4 Pace 5 Peete's posture 25 G-man, e.g. 41 Honey badger 55 Queen of the 
& Rids 26 Prove false 47 Viewpo1nts Night 7-the finish 
56 Describing a
27 A stage of man 48 Peers 
bad project 
&Vague 29Absolute 
50 Type of steak 57 New Testament 
9 Addlepated 30A Strauss Galilean village 52 Let down 
10 Julia of "The 31 Stopon-58 EntangleAddams 
53 Famous bit of 
32 Cuts up finely 59 Uses Howe's 
Family" unreal estate 
machine
33 Gardener's 
11 It makes a 54 Unsightly 60 Do a floor chore 
purchase sermon shorter 
35 Connery, for 12 Understands 
one 
Get answers to any three clues
13 Hindu "Mr." 39 Utopian 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·
21 Channel 40 Table-top 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0106
22 Extent harpsichord 

m 
DoN'T FoRGET
:I 
...I 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
zo 

::JZ-oc(.)
~­
...JW 
<!,(f} 
12~2 
Must Be 21
H! 

-
THE 
mr
nm~zc 
-~
Oz
JJ-
r-
c 
1111 

-
page 20 

JONATHAN JENSEN 
Game Point 
Today's stars no match for names of a forgotten era 
Who needs the nineties? 
Coming to the realization that the 
upcoming NBA All-Star game will be 
devoid of Magic's savvy and Bird's 
toughness, or any Celtic or Laker for 
that matter, my mind harkens back to a 
simpler time, a time that has passed us 
by. 
Who needs today's young athletic superstars-Shaq, L.J.. Danny Manning, Sean Elliot-they are mere flashes in the pan compared with the superstars of that forgotten era, the eighties, specifically, the early eighties. 
Forget Shaq's muscles and backboard-shattering slams, give me the eighties-give me U.L. Washington's toothpick, Gary Maddox's hair, Greg Luzinski's roofshots, and Al Oliver's bald head. 
I'd much rather see Tony Franklin's 
bare foot. Lester Hayes' stick-urn, or 
Mark Gastineau's s11ck dance. 
I got tired when names like Buddy Biancalanna and George "The Iceman" Gervin fell out of the headlines. 
Maybe these names bring back memories of great sports events of the eighties. Remember Dr. J flying through the air, a straight Hobert Parish, or Michael Jordan's hair? 
That was when the sports world was innocent-it was a time when Bruce Sutter was firing for the Cubs, who were once one game away from the Series. when Dave Corzine controlled the NBA's paint for the hapless Bulls, when John Hannah of the frightening Patriots terrorized defensive ends who dared to line up over him. 
Remember the Irish? A five or six­win season qualified as an exciting year on the gridiron, while John Paxson. Kelly Tripucka, and Orlando Woolridge dominated for Notre Dame's real sport, hoops. 
Speaking of college hoops, recall the talents of Lorenzo Charles, Gary McLain, Steve Alford, Dallas Comegys? How about Fred Brown, Stevie Thompson, or Derek Whittenberg? 
Forgotten names from a forgotten time. 
Speaking of forgotten, do the names Vida Blue, Bake McBride, Clint Hurdle, Willie Aikens, Bump Wills or Ivan De­Jesus mean anything to you? 
Maybe you have some names of your own bouncing arou.nd your head, names of players who shaped the sports scene in your area in the early eighties? 
In Philly, Tug McGraw, Bo Diaz, Harold Carmichael, Wilbert Montgomery or Maurice Cheeks may have been your heroes. 
Perhaps you were a New Englander and followed the every moves of Mosi Tatupu, Bob Stanley, Jerry Remy, Dave Stapleton and Tiny Archibold. 
Even L.A. and New York had their stars, with Vince Ferragamo, Jamal Wilkes, Steve Yeager, and Davey Lopes ruling La La Land, and Ali Haji-Sheikh, Craig Nettles, Butch Hobson, Mookie Wilson and Lee Mazzili captivating the 
see JENSEN/page 16 
Sports 
Wednesday, February 17,1993 

Swimmer Cooley strives to make 
';jjjjjiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ credentials for his other events. CooleyINSIDE SPORTS plans to swim the 200-yd. individual r=:::--::----:---:-::::-----:~---., medley, as well as the 100-yd. breast, IICoaches back Campanelli for which he recently reset his own see page 18 University record, dropping it to 57.17 
Notre Dame history 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
At the end of last swim season, senior Colin Cooley wasn't even sure if he would be competing this year. A knee injury had bothered him throughout the season. 
But now not only is Cooley competing again, he's swimming faster than ever. With only two meets left on the Irish schedule, Cooley is gunning to qualify for the NCAA Championships, a feat no male swimmer has ever accomplished at Notre Dame. 
"I've been swimming my best times, faster than the past three years," he said. "Coach Welsh thinks it's totally within my reach." 
Cooley's top event is the 200-yd. breaststroke and he clearly is concentrating on qualifying in that race. However, for the NCAA's there are two sets of qualifying, automatic and pro­visional. If he swims a time fast enough to qualify automatically in one event, he can swim in other events if meets the provisional times, so he's hoping to compete in three events at NCAA's. 
He boasts some pretty impressive 
•NBA 
roundup see page 16 

•Bledsoe 
discusses NFL combine see page 12 


seconds. 
The NCAA automatic qualifying mark for the 200 breast is 1:59, and to date his best time was a 2:03 his sophomore year, a second short of the provisional qualifying time. 
"Last time (sophomore year) I 
see COOLEY /page 14 
in the AP poll. 
Coach Kevin O'Neill's War­riors feature a balanced start­ing lineup. Forward Ron Curry and center Damon Key lead the scoring punch at 15.4 and 13.3 ppg, respectively. Speedy point guard Tony Miller and three­point threat Robb Logterman average over eight points a contest. 
At 7'1 ", Jim Mcllvine is a force in the middle, averaging 
11.5 points and 3.5 blocked shots per game off the bench. Freshman Roney Eford shot just one-for-11 against UAB, but still averages 13.1 points since entering the starting lineup 13 games ago. 
Notre Dame will try to stop a 2-7 tailspin that began against Michigan in the first week of the semester. Since then, they've been plagued by in­juries, turnovers and inconsis­tent play with the exception of senior Monty Williams and freshman Ryan Hoover, who combine for 28.9 of the team's 63 points per game. The club averages 17 turnovers per game. 
Jason Williams, an emerging contributor averaging four ppg, will miss his second straight game. Saturday 


The Observer/ Jake Peters
against Kentucky, MacLeod 
Senior forward Monty Williams will once again me the focal point of 
had hoped to start the the 6'2" 
the Irish offense as Marquette visits the JACC. Tipoff is slated for 
sophomore guard for just the 

7:30.
third time in his career. But Williams suffered a bruised playing time for Lamarr heart in last Wednesday's win Justice and Brooks Boyer. at Dayton and developed pains The status of forward Malik the next two days in practice. Russell is uncertain. Russell 
"He's still very sore," coach was helped off the court twice John MacLeod said Monday, against Kentucky, coming according to an AP article. "He down awkwardly on his ankle couldn't get out of bed to come after failing to convert on to the game Saturday." layups. 
This translates into more Joe Ross, who started over his twin Jon last Saturday, also has a sore foot but is expected to play today. The team is down to nine scholarship players after junior forward Carl Cozen suffered a season-ending stress fracture in his foot during practice before the Dayton game. 
Athletes find solace without sports 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Editor's note: This is the second article in a four-part series examining different athletic perspectives at Notre Dame. 
In high school, athletics was serious 
business. After school meant practice or a 
game, meet, or match and weekends were 
more of the same. Some athletes were 
dreaming of a future in collegiate and 
professional athletics. 
Many of those high school athletes have not pursued a career in varsity athletics after they arrived at Notre Dame. The reasons range from injuries to the size of the high school to wanting to focus on academics or other interests. 
The most prohibitive reason why high school athletes have not continued in varsity athletics is an injury. 
Steve Susco, a sophomore from Central Bucks East High School (Penn.), was dreaming of a career in professional ten­nis when he was hit from behind at a stoplight by a drunk driver. The nature of his injuries prevented him from playing competitive tennis again, and he gave the sport up after high school. He won't play casually and doesn't like to watch others play. 
"It's something I prefer to stay away from because it kind of brings back shady memories. It's something that I still love and am interested in, but I don't watch it on TV anymore, and I don't like watching people play it. It's just kinda sore. I'd rather just take what I've found as a replacement career and just focus on that," said Susco. 
Adam Ward, a junior from Bishop Cheverus High School (Md.) was sparking interest in his basketball skills at Univer­sity of Massachusetts, Boston College, Connecticut and Providence after his junior year, but at Five-Star Basketball Camp, Ward blew out one of his knees and the interest died. 

Courtney Heniff, a Notre Dame freshman from Minnetonka High School (Minn.) participated on the soccer, gymnastics and track teams for four years, and came to Notre Dame for the soccer team's preseason workouts. She lasted a week until a recurring back injury forced her to quit the team. 
Other former high school athletes did not continue in athletics because they were from a small town and felt they wouldn't be able to compete at the next level. 
Senior Art Monaghan was the captain of the football, basketball, track and baseball teams at West Delaware High School in Manchester, Iowa. His high school coach wanted him to walk on to the football team, but he chose not to. 
Steve Krueger was All-State in cross country for three years at Tinora, but his high school was one of the smallest in Ohio, and he wasn't recruited too highly. When he got here, he was intimidated by the situation and did not try out for the cross country team. Now, the junior is thinking that he might try out after taking three years to do other things. 
The most common reason why high school athletes did not pursue a career in varsity athletics in college is that they 
want to focus  on  academics or other  
interests.  
see SERIES/page 14  







