
-
Sports 
page 40 Friday, May 14, 1993 
Saint Mary's Hall of Fame taking shape 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 

Saint Mary's athletic program has come a long way from the days when it was still part of NAIA and Jo-Ann Nester became director of athletics and recreation. 
Out of those days have arisen Saint Mary's transition into NCAA Division III and now the creation of the Saint Mary's 
. 
#I; 
College Hall of Fame. .·· '~ #!" 

"It's been 10 years in coming. 'l . , It was something that was one of I~--_· my original10 goals when I got~ here," Nester said. "It's a way to get alumnae to support Saint Jo-Ann Nestor Mary's athletics." 
-Nester's top three goals were laid out over her 10-year time at Saint Mary's. First, Nester hoped to build the sports program. Next, she said she wanted to make it a success. Finally, her last goal has begun to take effect. 
"I wanted to provide something for our alumnae so they could take interest after graduation,"said Nester. That 'something' began as the Saint Mary's monogram club and now the Saint Mary's College Athletic Hall of Fame. 
Tammye Radke Raster, Class of 1988, and Sarah Mayer, Class of 1991, are the first inductees into the Saint Mary's College Athletic Hall of Fame. The ceremony took place at the annual Awards Banquet on April 27th. 
Raster is only one of two Saint Mary's athletes to have her jersey retired. And with good reason. During her time playing basketball for the Belles, Raster scored a career 1,171 points. Quite 
.... a feat considering the three-point shot was not in existence during Raster's playing career at Saint Mary's. 
As a four-year starter, at the guard position, 
see SMC page 23 
LACROSSE 

The Irish face fifth-seeded Virginia in the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
pages 28 &29 


Stadium expansion one step closer 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI Dennis Moore, director of Public purpose." None of the University's 
News Writer Relations. "The next step would be to existing funds should be used in formalize things that have only been expansion. 
After careful consideration by the general up to now." The final report makes it clear that Colloquy for the Year 2000, the A stadium expansion would financing stadium expansion is not a question of expanding Notre Dame probably provide 20,000 additional problem, but the question is how to Stadium inched a step closer to an seats at a cost of about $40 million, do it. The report of the Colloquy's answer. But it is still just a question. according to Moore. Athletics subcommittee states that 
According to recommendation 33 For the Board of Trustees to "even a most conservative financial of the Colloquy's final report, issued approve the concrete plans, the plan would suggest that interim to the Board of Trustees on May 7, plans need to fulfill five criteria that financing could proceed with tax­"the University administration the Colloquy set forth in University exempt bonds with the revenue should move forward with concrete President Edward Malloy's final generated by the stadium addition plans to expand the present football report. being used to retire the bonds." stadium." The first and foremost problem is Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Over the next year the University how to pay for expansion. "The cost Director Charles Lennon agreed. "I 
will develop a plan subject to the of the project," states the final think the best method is the bond." approval of the Board of Trustees. report, "must be borne by additional Another option, although less likely, "This is one more step forward," said revenue generated for this specific 
see STADIUM page 38 

~------------------------~----------------------------------~~ ~G!l~~oorn SPORTS 
BASKETBALLCLASS OF '93 


Malik Russell claims coach graduating athletes. 
Profiles of Saint Mary's John Macleod forced him and Nathion Gilmore to 
pages 24 & 25 transfer. page 37 




Softball clinches MCC crown 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team put the finishing touches on coach Liz Miller's first season with a 4-3 win over Loyola to claim the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship at Indianapolis. 
The win came in the strangest of ways as catcher Sara Hayes hit an RBI single scoring freshman Michele Cline in the bottom of the eighth inning. 
• 


The Observer/Jake Peters Sara Hayes' single in the eighth led Notre Dame to the MCC title. 
"Sara got up there after not having a hit in the tournament and I told h.er that this is the spot you dream of being in and to take advantage of it," said Miller. "It only took one pitch. Sara loves being in those situa­tions." 
Hayes was Notre Dame's leading hitter during the regular season, but her and the rest of the top hitters' bats fell silent during the MCC Tournament allowing a number of unlikely heroes to step forward for the Irish. 
One such player was second baseman Michele Cline who scored the winning run from second on Hayes single after freshman Jenna Knudson sac­rificed to mover her to second. 
Hayes' game-winning hit may have never been if the Irish hadn't battled back to tie the score in the seventh. Designated hitter Casey McMurray singled to score senior Ronny Alvarez when the Irish were down to their final out, sending the game into extra innings. 
"We knew that if we got into extra innings we would win," said Miller. "It was just a matter of tying the score before we ran out of time." 
Senior Staci Alford earned the win on the mound after pitching the last four innings in which she never allowed a batter to reach first. 
Notre Dame found themselves down early 2-0 thanks to three errors. One of those errors came at the hands of first baseman Stephanie Pinter which may have been a blessing in disguise. 

"She (Pinter) is the type of player that gets so mad because ii;,::;;__;;;;; of the error that she takes it out on the ball," said Miller, in reference to the 4-4 performance Pinter turned in after committing the early error. 
Despite the performance of Pinter the Irish were unable to get the key hits until Hayes' game winner. They stranded twelve runners on base and left the bases loaded in one inning. 
Notre Dame advanced to the finals with a 4-0 win over Loyola earlier in the day behind freshman Terri Kobata's three­hitter. It was Kobata's second shutout of the tournament and it included 13 strikeouts. She allowed only four hits in her two starts and totaled 24 strikeouts, earning tournament MVP honors. 

The key to the first win over ,.>"" -:;...., : 
Loyola was a Alvarez triple which thanks to an error turned into a run and a built the Notre Dame lead to 2-0. Alvarez joined Kobata on the all-tournament team. 
"I think Loyola knew at that 


Casey McMurray had a key RBI single in the seventh inning of the 
see SOFTBALL page 36 

MCC finals, tying the score at 3-3. 
The Observer/Dave Hungeling 



Today 
Friday, May 14, 1993 
page 39 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Tl-tiS CARTOON IS OEDICA\f.D lo Tl+E CLASS 11-iAT 0\MG TD NOTRE DiME: nt& SAME. YtRR. I DID. 71-lR OUC,H ntE. LAST FoUR YEARS WE'VE HAD A F£ w CHIJCKLE5 BUT Now 1['5 TIME FoR YoJ 77> 61<.1\DVA-TF ftNO (no our INTD 11-t€ I<.E.ItL WoRL-D. f\5 YOU LEAV£, I. Hf\VE otJ LAST fl..[;QU€ST: 

TRKE ME W/nl You. Pt£f!1>£. 




CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 

• 
"And so," the interviewer asked, "Do you ever have trouble coming up with ideas?" "Well, sometimes," the cartoonist replied. 

,.---------------, Stay in touch 
with 

SAINT MARY'S 
and 

NOTRE DAME with a subscription to 

.The Observer. ­
I I 

: One Year $50 : : One Semester $30 : 
lr I





L--------------.J 

W\\l-1 Mi GREAT SLOGAt-1 '*-\\) 'iO\JR <3RE.I\I 1\RTWORK, Tl-\\'3 TRfl.JlK SA\="8'1 PO':,TE.R IS 1\ '31-\0£-IN 
FOR I="IR'S\ PRI"ZE .1 
CROSSWORD 
A 'SOLID 
t:o\J~OMION 
OF Ai'll\lOt.\ICAL 
5TUD'i I'S 
ESSI).I\11\L 
!=OR 11-IE 
ARTIST. 
W\-\1\T 'S\-\0\JLO WE 'SPEND 
TI-lt:. PRI'ZE 
MONt'i 01'\" 

OF COUR':>£, 
TECI-\NICI\L S'KI\1. 1>-LO\'IE 
I'=>N'I mOI.lG\-1. 
1\ PICI\JR~ NIT.O':> OC\'111 
cr-H£U~G. 
26Small pit 27 Nine days' wonder 28 Pseudo-
seismologist? 30 Author Wister 31 Mud volcano 32 Full 34 Except 37 Two-thirds of 
r.b.i. 38 Acclamations 40U.S. flag 
designer: 1818 41 I bert's "-­d'Yvetot" 
l'U. DRI\W 'S<l\-1\t. W\-\EN 'lOin£ 
SThRs TO S\-\C~'tl GOT Tfl..l£~1 Pl\11'-l !>NO 1-\\JMr..~ 
UKE 0\JRS, S\Jf'H:-.R\1'\G. 
T\-1£ WORLD I'S '10\JR O'fSTl:.R. 


43--Lane, 1814 so San--, battle site Riviera spa 
52 Fire: Comb. vowel 44 Diacritic over a 
form 53 Big top 

47 Actress Evans of old films 54 Statue in Piccadilly48 Adriatic seaport 
Circus 49 Buck heroine 57 Thun's river 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ACROSS 29 Like a waif 55 "When I was 33 Rounded
1 Weak, dull Gilbert
34 Ed Norton's milieuperson 56 Deceased5 Vintner's campanologist?

purchase 35 Motonsts' org. 
58 Piquantto Walk lamely 36 Beach, Fla. 

59 Adult insect 14 Mother of 37 Less furnished 

eo--Domini

Augustus 38 Small village 61 Signs15 On the up and Abbr. 
62 lrv---,

up 
39 Tolkien creature 
ex-Yankee16 Cyma recta 

40 Poe's one-word 
63 Forms a lap 17 Harvey's drink? 

bird 19 Yield to tension 
41 At liberty 20 Horseshoe 

DOWN
42 DecathlonCurve site in Pa. 

participants

21 Rod on a 1 Saba-,
44---up (in

dogsled Radner role 
confusion)

23 Swifty Lazar, 2 Type of type: 
45 Discontinue 

Abbr. 25 Maintain e.g. 
46 Diva Lucine 3 Cartoonist Gross

26 "To know the change and 48Cad 4 Battle scene: -"·Keats 51 Monkshood May 8, 1846 5 Morning star, e.g. 6 French 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
historian: 1823-92 7 Heckler's 
missile a Victory, in Bonn 9 Narrow flag. 
10 Glad tidings 11 Pay attention to 
Andy, but-? 12 Fast breaker 13 Cantinflas film: 
1960 18 Low truck or cart , 
24 "-Small Hotel," 1936 song 



The 'llsePveP would like to thank all of the gpaduating stall. 
-



SOODLUCKI 
~-~·~----------------------~-~­
---------. 

page 38 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
should be used to meet pressing 
academic and student needs." 
The Subcommittee on Athlet­ics report estimated that income from ticket sales would increase to $5 million per year if the stadium was expanded. "The increased revenue from the seats would be helpful," said Father Edmund Joyce, vice­president emeritus. "Revenue is always helpful. Keeps your tuition down." 
The Colloquy report also urged that "fitting attention should be given to aesthetic, lo­gistical and community rela­tions factors." 
Although the University might expect protests from purists about expanding the tradition­filled stadium, there are few. "You get more concern about tearing it down," Lennon said. 
Over the course of the next year, a committee will develop a specific plan for stadium ex­pansion. The Board of Trustees will meet in May of 1994 to ex­amine it. 
There is no timetable for a decision about whether to ex­pand the stadium, according to Father E. William Beauchamp, University vice-president. 
Stadium continued from page 40 would be to "sell" the rights to the new seats before built. The final report also stated that an expansion's "additional income must not adversely af­fect fund raising for other cru­cial priorities of the University." If alumni thought the University was not honoring its promise to build academic strength primarily, general contributions could go down, the report suggests. "The main obstacle is the public relations factor," said Lennon. "If people thought stadium expansion (funds) would go to the athletic department, with an academic shortfall, that would be disas­trous." Despite the possible negative publicity generated by a deci­sion to expand, increased ca­pacity would help rather than hinder Notre Dame's financial need. The final report stated that "additional revenues gen­erated by an expanded stadium  Football offers sym.bol of four years at Notre Dame Four years ago the University Bose, were on display, starting of Notre Dame's class of 1993 to enjoy the fruits of their labor. entered the fall semester full of This scenario isn't a uniqueRICH KURZ promise and enthusiasm. Part one by any means. In a fewAssociate Sports Editor of that excitement, a very large months the Class of 1997 will be part for many, was the dawning Class of 1993 on campus, just as enthusiastic of a new football season. and excited as we were. They too will have their own future not, a great deal of learning still Some members of the illustrated the new position of stars. All-American quarter­remains.freshman class were a little the Class of '93. It was time to back Ron Powlus is in their As much as the football por­more prominent than others, start making significant contri­class, just as Mirer was with us. tion of our years seemed to end Although Powlus won't havethough. There were names like butions. The realization made as the final seconds ticked offRick Mirer and Demetrius Du­us giddy, like when Mirer fin­the same competition Mirer did the clock at the end of the Cot•Bose, looking in from the out­ished off the Wolverines in that in his freshman year, it will ton Bowl, the realization that anside at first, high school All­come-from-behind, roller­probably take him a year to era had ended at Notre DameAmericans who came into a coaster of a win. learn the system and get a feel came several weeks ago duringplace filled with established for Notre Dame. the NFL draft.stars like Tony Rice and Chris It wasn't always easy, for The same people who enteredZorich. some more so than others. Not And then Powlus will step into But now, four years later, that all of those who started with us the University just four short the starting line-up, taking the years ago were now, like mostpotential has been realized. will finish with us. Some, like Class of '97 on their roller­other seniors, finding out aboutAfter taking a year to learn the Jake Kelchner, ran into prob­coaster of memories. Like our their plans for next year.Notre Dame football system and lems and couldn't finish out class, that class will have a Instead of freshmen enteringfind out what Notre Dame is all their years here in South Bend. leader in one of the most visible college somewhat unsure whatabout, both Mirer and DuBose Even this year, mistakes were positions in America. Like our the next few years would hold,stepped into the lineup to begin made on and off the field. class, the Class of '97 will have classmates like Irv Smith, Reg­making their presence felt. DuBose had his troubles with their football stars as a symbol gie Brooks and Craig Hentrich,Against Michigan in the very the NCAA, but it served to re­of their four years at the Uni­in addition to Mirer and Du-first game of the season, Mirer mind us that college seniors or versity of Notre Dame.  

Flanner Hall Congratulates its Class of 1993 
E.J. Alaniz Gerald Andersen Jason Burmis James Burns Jason Catania Gary Chirhart Kevin Chouinard Darrell Clark Luke Conway Eric Cunningham John DaCosta Eric Danapilis Christopher Degiorgio Dennis Diaz Christopher Donohoe Joseph Durand William Finley John Flanagan 
Justin Fortier 
Jacob Frost David Fulton 

Joseph Gallatin Robert Girous Eric Gregoire Erik Hanson Michael Hobbs Michael Hochstetler Michael Huie Michael Hunniford Ttmothy Jaster Michael Kane Jason Kies Kenneth Klechka Bert Koehler Gregory Koenig Lorenzo Lamadrid 
Christian Langlois Daniel Langrill John Larkin Michael Liporto Michael McCarthy Timothy McCarthy Cavid Michael James Mixon Michael Navarro Brendan Nelligan Kenneth Novak Joseph Nunez Michael Nuss John O'Callaghan Paul Pearson John Prette Robert Prock Martin Pulido 
Michael Rafford Matthew Rieser David Schumerth Jason Shaw Martin Sprunck DeShawn Stewart Todd Stoker David Sullivan Christopher Swetonic Richard Szabo Michael Tartaglione Stuart Tyner Joe Vasquez Limin Yan Taeseok Yoo William Matthews-
Doctor of Law William Pifher-Master of Divinity 


o(dfruoaii 
Congratulates Our 

1993 Island Graduates ... 
William Bates Ryan de la Pena Carolyn Ho Carol Leong (MBA) Gabriel Man Trevor T. Murray Robert "Matt" Smith Jay Stone Christopher Sukow Taison Tanaka Patrick Walsh Diane Wong 
Aloha Aku Ia'Oukou!(Farewell To You All!) 
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer 
Russell says he was forced out 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Malik Hussell is no longer a part of the Notre Dame basket­ball program, but he is still giv­ing head coach John MacLeod headaches. 
Russell, a 6-7 sophomore, told the South Bend Tribune that MacLeod forced he and class­mate Nathion Gilmore to transfer. 
"I was coming in to his office to talk about a 
possible trans-
Nathion 
fer, whether or not to leave, Gilmore when he said 'You have to leave,'" Russell said. "We got into an argument about it. I didn't think he had the right to do that." 
MacLeod denies that an ar­gument ever occurred, and he insists that he and his stafT did as much as they could to help Russell reach his potential. 
"No. 1, there was no argu­ment," MacLeod said. "We bent over backwards for Malik Hus­sell. We had six coaches working with him over a two­year period. We gave one indi­vidual more attention than the other players combined over the last two seasons." 
Hussell made his decision to transfer after the season amid reports of continuing conflicts with MacLeod. He was report­edly a repeat violator of team rules, and MacLeod suspended him for the final three games of the season because of academic difficulties. 
Bussell will enroll at South Carolina where former Van­derbilt coach Eddie Fogler re­cently accepted the head coach­ing position. Fogler recruited Russell when he was a high school senior. It appears that the move my be in the best in­terests of everyone involved. 
"It wasn't a good fit from the beginning,'' Hussell said. "There was a personality conflict between me and Coach MacLeod. He made an effort with me, we just never got along." 
Despite the problems, Russell said he was planning to return to Notre Dame next year. 
"Even after everything that happened last season, I proba­bly would have ended up stay­ing here next year if I could have," Russell said. "I was told to transfer. It was the same thing with Nathion." 
Gilmore, a 6-8 forward who saw limited action as a fresh­man, supports Russell's story that MacLeod pressured the players to leave Notre Dame. 
"He brought up transferring on media day (last October) and kept putting the idea in my head," Gilmore said. "I was getting vibes he didn't want me around. I wanted to stay. Leaving Notre Dame was the farthest thing from my mind. He said maybe I should look elsewhere." 
Gilmore announced his deci­sion to leave one day before practice began, but MacLeod says that he didn't influence that decision. 
"He came in and said 'Coach, I want to transfer,' and we said maybe we can work it out," MacLeod explained. "I called Texas and we arranged for it. We thought we had helped 
h.
liD. " 
Whatever the circumstances surrounding their departures, Gilmore and Russell appear to be ready to settle into their new environments. 
"I guess it's for the best," Russell said. "I guess I'm glad to have a good start again." 




Reminder for 
Seniors Doing Service Work Next Year 
Volunteer Senior Send-Off Saturday, May 15, 1993 Washington Hall 
10:30 a.m. 
Reception for family and friends immediately following at the Center for Social Concerns 
Photo Courtest of Notre Dame Sports Information Malik Russell is one of two former Notre Dame basketball players to state that coach John Macleod pushed them out of Notre Dame. 
SOUTH AFRICANS 
Congratulations to all graduating South Mricans! 
Contact Louis Van Pletsen at the Notre Dame Club of South Africa (Tel# 011-793-5933) when you return to S.A. 
Still think you know all there is to know about Bookstore Basketball? 
1. 
Which team was allowed to play with an illegal player in 1978? And why? 

2. 
Who is the only person to play in 4 consecutive Bookstore men's finals? 

3. 
Which current NFL quarterback once played for Tequila White Lightning? 

4. 
T~ue or false: Adrian Dantley was a Bookstore champ. 

5. 
Bookstore Basketball has seen the likes of teams with: a.) blind players b.) a player with no arms c.) the Dean of Students d.) all of the above 


Find out in: 
Lank Out For The Manhole Cover A History OfNotre Dame's Bookstore Basketball Tournament 
Available NOW in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for $14.95 
50 pages of the BEST TEAM Names from 1972-1992! ':·over 50 photographs! ''Championship 
teams, award winners! ':·Fifteen years of the women's tournament! ':·useless Bookstore trivia! ''And More! 


page 36 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
With only 20 conferences in 
existence it is a strong possi­
bility that the MCC will receive
Softball Broski progresses slowly but steadily 
one of the automatic bids. Also a
continued from page 40 
strong nucleus of talent returns under Miller for her secondpoint that they were in trouble," season. 
said Miller. "They might have 
"We are losing some great
thought they could score one 
players but we have some play­run otT of Terri but there was no ers returning that can fill in," 
way they were going to get 
said Miller. "I think this year we 
two." 
were able to win so many games 
The win boosted Notre Dame's 
because teams came in
final season record to 36-13, 
underestimating our abilities. 
their second highest win total in 
That won't be the case again
the last five years and the 
next year, but there are indeed 
fewest losses in that same span. 
some things to be excited 
The Irish also finished the year about." 
with a No. 5 regional ranking, their highest ranking of the season. 
Notre Dame received an invi­tation to the National Invita­tional Tournament but decided i earlier in the year not to partic­ipate as it would have violated the NCAA limit of 22 weeks a team can play. 
"We knew that if WB played in the NIT that we would have to begin practice later and also that we would have been with­out six of our key players be­cause they would be at gradua­tion ceremonies," said Miller. 
In the future the NIT may be the least of the worries for the Irish. There is a strong possi­bility that the NCAA Tourna­ment field will expand to 36 for next season, including 16 bids given to conference champions. 

The Observer/Kyle Kusak Freshman pitcher Terri Kobata conlcluded a stellar first year, earning MCC Tournament MVP. 
ON SALE SATURDAY•10AM 
MONDAY, JULYS 11:00 DEER CREEK MUSIC CENTER INDIANAPOLIS RES. PAV. $27.50 LAWN $22.50 
SERVICE CHARGE ADDITIONAL 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT ALL fiC<iiO'~ LOCATIONS OR 
f 
CHARGE BY PHONE 749-4949 





couJ;?~> 

Call 255-7777 Congratulations Graduates! 
Is your roommate graduating? Do you need a place to live? Remington Court Apartments has the answer for you! We specialize in junior one bedrooms, perfect for the individual who wants to be on their own. Come out and take a look at our models... We have an apartment waiting for you! 
Located on Main Street between McKinley and Edison 
Will Accept 3-Month Summer Leases 
CONGRATULATIONS Graduating Seniors 

Officials First Aid Instructors Participants 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Progress continues to be slow but steady for senior Todd Broski. 
It has been six weeks since Broski suffered a severe spinal cord injury in a rugby game and doctors are still unable 


to make a Todd Broski concrete prognosis about the extent to which he will be able to recover. The injury occurred in a sit­uation known as a ruck, where the forwards fight for a loose ball. In a ruck, the players col­lapse on top of one another, and Broski found himself propped over another person and other players then fell on top of him. "It was a freak accident," said sophomore Nick Knowlton. "Rugby is a very physical game, 
but it wasn't one of the more dangerous situations." 
He was rushed to South Bend's St. Joseph Medical Center before being transferred to a hospital closer to his Cleveland home. 
Recovery from an injury of this magnitude is a slow process at best, but there has been definite progress. 
He underwent a tracheotomy two weeks ago and his breath­ing has progressed enough for him to be taken otT a respirator. 
Wednesday he was trans­ferred for the second time, this time moving from Case Western Hospital in Cleveland to the Metro Rehabilitation Center. 
And also this week, doctors inserted a device that allows him to speak freely for the first time in a month. 
"He's pretty happy about that," said senior Rugby Club member Justin Politi. "His spirits are still really high." 
A compassionate spirit has 
been really high around cam­pus, as the University commu­nity rallies around Broski and his family. 
Nearly $6,000 was raised in last weekend's Todd Broski Invitational to help his family cover the medical costs. And a lithograph of the Notre Dame campus is being sold by the se­nior class for the same purpose. 
"It was the classes' idea to do something for Todd and we thought this would be the best way to help out," said senior class president Joe Huston. 
Although he missed the final month of the school year, Broski will graduate with his class. 
But bigger accomplishments lie ahead as Broski faces a struggle much greater than his four years at Notre Dame. 
Broski's teammates believe that he has the mental and physical strength to overcome this challenge. 
"He's known for his tough­ness," said Knowlton. "If there's anyone who can get through something like this, he can." 

lyft!MMfi!Where Great Taste Meets Great Music AT ~ THANKS FOR A GREAT YEAR!!! 
t ! 
~~-----------------­
----~----­

---------~--------­
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 35 
Offense continues to lead Notre Dame on the diamond 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
It has been a week of offen­sive fireworks for the Notre Dame baseball team. In their last five games, the Irish have scored 1 0 runs or more as they improved their record to 34-12. 
It began with Monday's 20-9 shelling of Indiana State and continued Tuesday with a 19-6 romp over Illinois-Chicago. 
Wednesday against North­western, the Irish got on the board in the first when Ed Hartwell seored from third on a double steal. In the third, they manufactured two runs without a hit, scoring on two hit-by­pitches and saerifice flies from Hyan Topham and Bob Lisanti. 
Eric Danapilis then put the game out of reach with a three­run home run to give the Irish a 10-1 lead. 
Starting pitcher David Sinnes went five innings and struck out three on the way to his seventh win in his last eight games. 
The bats continued to sizzle as the Notre Dame baseball team swept a doubleheader from Cleveland State Thursday, winning the opener 10-8 and the nightcap 10-4. 
The top half of the batting order connected for 12 of Notre Dame's 13 hits, led by Hartwell, Danapilis and Matt Haas, who each had three hits. 
Notre Dame put together a three-run rally in the first in-
CONGRATULATIONS TO 
THE CLASS OF 1993 
It has been our pleasure to service you during your stay here on campus. Please call us if we can be of any assistance in your future business or personal travel needs. 
800-DOMERS2 • 800-7DOMERS 

ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. 
"The Official Travel Service of the University of Notre Dame" LaFortune Student Center • Phone:631-7080 • Fax:631-8504 
ning to set the tone for the of­fensive fireworks that would follow. 
Cleveland State connected for four runs in the first four in­nings against Irish starter Tim Krause, including a solo home run by Steve Horley. 
Notre Dame took a 10-6 lead with three runs in the top of the seventh, but Cleveland State gave the Irish a scare after Sam Miller's two-run pinch-hit home run brought them to within two. But Chris Michalak shut the door, earning the win to improve to 9-3. 
Notre Dame started slowly in the nightcap, falling behind 4-2 after three innings. 
But the Irish bounced back in the fourth, collecting three runs to take a 5-4 lead that they never relinquished. 
Paul Failla's solo home run in the fifth extended the Irish lead, and they added another run in the sixth and three more in the seventh on Korey Wrobleski three-run home run to seal the sweep. 
Notre Dame had six stolen bases in the nightcap, including a pair from Haas. 
Dan Adams went to the mound in the fourth inning, and he allowed just two hits the rest of the way, striking out three to keep the Cleveland State offense handcuffed on the way to the save. 
Starting pitcher Garrett Carl­son was the winner despite al­lowing four runs on six hits in 3 

Saint Mary's College Alumnae Club of London sends warmest wishes to the 
Class of 1993 

for a bright and prosperous future! 


GRADUATION! 
at the 
Alumni-Senior Club Open Saturday, May 15 9 p.m.-2 a.m. 

-JazzFrictian-
Colleexperiencethe111sicoroneofChicago·s 
finestjazzbands! 

The Irish are at home for four games against Dayton, with doubleheaders slated for 1 p.m. Friday and Saturday. The regular season linale is set for Monday afternoon at Central Michigan, and the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment opens Tuesday at Cov­eleski Stadium. 
Congratulations, Grad! And Happy Birthday, Chris Ciervo! 
Love, Mom, Dad and Andi 
P.S .... You sure grew a lot of hair 



CONGMl~lAlON~!! 
CLASS'~' 
OF 1993  
BEST OF LUCK IN YOUR~FW ENDEAVORS  ~~ w. n.,.. ~"''~ e!!f&iKW. V  
'\,~;H;  .  CAREER & PLACEMENT .·;t SERVICES  

Four Years in Review 
page 34 
Friday, May 14, 1993 


'> 
Top 10 Sports Stories from 

1989 ~ 1993 

2 "Wrestling program gets the axe" 
Athletic director Dick Rosenthal announced that the wrestling program would be eliminated amid rumors of NCAA violations and a personal conflict between Rosenthal and head coach Fran McCann. 
April13, 1992 


5 "Orange Bowl closes bizarre year" 
"Rocket" Ismail's dramatic last second punt return was eliminated because of a clipping penalty, ending Notre Dame's hopes of a second straight Orange Bowl victory over top­ranked Colorado. 
Jan. 16, 1991 


8 "Cardinal rally ends Irish home win streak at 19" 
When Rick Mirer's pass slipped through Derek Brown's fingers in the final seconds, Stanford escaped with the 36-31 upset victory, ending Notre Dame's three-year home winning streak. 
Oct. 6, 1990 

3 "Notre Dame signs five-year television contract with NBC" 
Sports . . ..· ·· Notre Dame signed a ~~~n.;;;,;;;;;·~·;;;;;;;;;;r~; five-year $35 million dollar contract with NBC to televise its ;>~l&o:•·.U<m~:>.mc;,;.,;, home football games. It was the first contract of its kind, creating controversy 

within the College Football Association, of which Notre Dame was a member before signing the contract. 
Feb.6,1990 
6 "Heroics lift Irish over Penn State" 

Reggie Brooks' dramatic last minute two-point conversion catch lifted Notre Dame over Penn State 17-16. It marked the final game of the series because of Penn State's decision to join the Big 10. 
Jan 17, 1990 
9 ''Irish gel in finale, upset Gators 39-28" 
··-··-·-sports-··--····-... 

Notre Dame silenced the skeptics with a 39-28 win over heavily-favored Florida in the 1992 Sugar Bowl. Jerome Bettis paced the Irish attack with three second half touch­downs. 
Jan. 15, 1992 7 "MacLeod to be named coach of Notr e Dame hoops" 


John MacLeod accepted the head coaching position vacated by "Digger" Phelps after it was turned down by Xavier coach Pete Gillen and Georgia Tech coach Bobby Cremins. 
May 3,1991 


10 
"Irish basketball shocks 
No.2 UCLA" 
Add another upset to the storied basketball tradition at the Joyce ACC. Notre Dame stunned No. 2 UCLA 84-71 behind the leadership of seniors LaPhonso Ellis, Elmer Bennett and Daimon Sweet. 
Feb.4,1992 
4 
"ND, in 'classic,' defeats Miami" 
Notre Dame got the last laugh in the much-publicized series against Miami, winning the final 29­20 in a classic game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Oct. 30, 1990 

Editor's Note: Selections were made by members of The Observer sports department. 
--~--~­


Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer 
page 33 

-----··______,NCAA WOMEN'S TENNIS------··----­
CHAMPIONSHIP 
Young Irish win one and lose one in first ever NCAA berth 
By JASON KELLY Stanford, the Irish learned a was notified less than 24 hours Associate Sports Editor tough lesson, but not before before the match that it would teaching Alabama a lesson of its take Miami's place. With three freshman playing own in a 5-0 opening-round A three-hour delay gave the 
key roles, the Notre Dame win. Crimson Tide a little more time 
women's tennis team looked at Miami was originally sched­to prepare, but it may have 
its first ever berth in the NCAA uled to face Notre Dame in the worked more in Notre Dame's 
Championships as a learning first round, but the Hurricanes favor. 
experience. were disqualified because they "I think the delay actually Thursday against No. 2 had only five players. Alabama helped us loosen up a little bit," 

-----------------------....,Notre Dame coach Jay Louder-back said. "I don't think we were this loose all season. We had a lot of time to think about things and by the time we played, we knew exactly what we needed to do." 
Freshman Wendy Crabtree, 
(O~~(]IRAlfllJllJ\lf~O~S 
§HANNON~ 
ranked No. 61 in the latest In­tercollegiate Tennis Association rankings, defeated No. 58 Jenny Whalen 7-5, 6-1 at No. 1 singles. It was her 11th win in her last 12 matches. 
Classmate Holyn Lord contin­
Love, 
ued her hot streak at No. 5 sin­gles, defeating Amy Mascotti 6­
Mo1n, Dad, B.J. 
0, 6-2 for her 22nd consecutive win. Lord hasn't lost a match 
I ', l 
arKI Courtneu 
since January 30. Junior Christy Faustmann 
l
r=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cruised at No.3 singles, hand­
ing Lori Smith a 6-4, 6-2 loss and classmate Lisa Tholen beat 

Marouschka Van Dijk 6-4, 6-2 at No.4. 
Sophomore Laura Schwab closed out the match at No. 6 singles with a 6-4, 6-2 win over 
We could hardly have done 
~?:~m::;. ?t?~
it without you ­
;;~W&' 
I I
Greg, Vince, Meghan, Latauna, Aimee, and Michelle. 
Thanks andfarewell! 
The Snite Museum ofArt 

Chrissy Carter. 
At No. 2 singles, Notre Dame freshman Sherri Vitale split the first two sets with Titia Wilmink, but the match was called after the team outcome had been determined. 
Stanford gave Notre Dame a taste of its own medicine in the 5-0 second-round defeat. 
The Cardinal, seeded No. 2 in this year's tournament, boasts six of the nation's top 65 play­ers, including three of the top six. Stanford has won six of the last seven NCAA titles, and eight in the tournament's 11 year history. 
Stanford's Laxmi Poruri, the nation's No. 2 singles player, knocked off Crabtree 6-3, 7-5 • and it went downhill from there for the Irish. 
Heather Willens, ranked 5th in the nation, handled Vitale 6­2, 6-1 at No. 2 singles, and sixth-ranked Kim Shasby de­feated Faustmann 6-2. 6-4 at No.3. 
Kristine Kurth and Amy Chiminello were winners over Tholen and Schwab, respec­tively to clinch the victory for the Cardinal. 
Stanford advances to face Ge­orgia in the quarterfinals. 
Despite the loss, Louderback still believes the experience the young players gained this week 
To Our Graduating Students: 
The Office of University Computing extends its heartfelt thanks for your hard work 'and dedicated service in our computer clusters, instructional programs and special projects! 
Congratulations and Best Wishes for Your Continued Success! 
Office of University Computing • UniversHy of Notre Dame 




ONGRATULATIONS 
to the graduating seniors of the Chicago land area 
From all your friends at the ND Club of Chicago We're Proud of You! 
Keep In Touch (312) 263--6063 

The Observer/Jake Peters Junior Terri Vitale and the Irish couldn't overcome Stanford in yesterday's second round match. 
will benefit them in the future. 
"The bid to the championship is a real benchmark for our program," he said. "This was a very good experience for our younger players. This was a good opportunity for them to compete at a national level." 
CRABTREE CONTINUES: Thursday's loss does not mean the end of the season for freshman Wendy Crabtree. She is one of 64 players who will compete in the singles competition slated for May 17­
20. Lisa Tholen will join Crab­tree in next week's doubles competition. 
EVERY 
SATURDAY 
NIGHT 
AT 
§UBI~ 
downtown South Bend 



next to Holiday Inn 
Stop in for Dinner 
Stay for the Music 
Saturday: 
Priscilla Phillips 
with After Hours 
(JAZZ!) 
127 N. Main 
South Bend 


.....-------------~ -----------------~~---~--~---. 
page 32 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
-----··______NCAA WOMEN'S TENNIS------··----­
CHAMPIONSHIP 

Good Luck "93 
Now Serving the Finest Mexican and Italian Foods Garden Open This Weekend 
The Observer/Kyle Kusak 
Freshman Holyn Lord won her 22nd consecutive match against 
~-·······················~ 
Alabama on Wednesday. 
ONE GIFr CERTIFICATE REDEEMABLE 
AT ALL THREE RESTAURANTS 
~ 

... 
-
~ 
£MllnROJt!1 
~'C1 ~ 
IT'S 
12110011. 
TIME FOR 
.IllOTHER 

LIFE OR DEATH 
DECISION. 

When you make a habit of 
dw<Jsing high-cholesterOl 
foods, you're choosing a 
dangerous coun;e. One thaL could lead to a high cholt~s­t.crol level in your blood and "'voc•ltually to a heart. attack 
R<•member tbat the next tnne you browse through a menu. And plact' your order as though your very life depended on it. 

&"'aAmerican Heart """'Association WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'r'f.YJRUFE 
2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 262-1500 
The Works Bar and Grill 121 S. Niles 501 N. Niles Ave. 
South Bend, IN 
South. Bend, In.
234-9000 
Ph: 237 9757 

ental Units Now vailable 
•1/4 
Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms 

•2 
Bathrooms 


•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 

•Covered 
Parking 

•Security 
System 


•Large Balconies CALL Now FoR APPOINTMENTS 

272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 er month 
------~-----~~-~­
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 31 
-----··------NCAA MEN'S TENNIS------··----­
CHAMPIONSHIP 

. ' 





The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 136 FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH geon general, will deliver the as AIDS, nutrition, and health velopment where, among her Organ Procurement Transplan­Saint Mary's Editor commencement address and concerns related to smoking. other responsibilities, she co­tation Act of 1984 and also was will also be awarded one of She also advises on ordinated pediatric AIDS re­involved in the drafting of 
More than 400 Saint Mary's three honorary degrees con­environmental health concerns, _ search. warning labels concerning the students will be awarded de­ferred by the College. The 1993 disease prevention and She has also lead a special health risks of cigarette smok­grees at the College's 146th valedictorian Beatriz Castillo, a immunization. work group in the reorganiza-ing. annual commencement tomor­psychology and French major Prior to her work at the tion and revitalization of the Honorary degrees will also be row. from Cuernavaca, Mexico, will USPHS she worked in a private USPHS, chaired the Department conferred upon Dolores Leckey, 
The ceremonies will begin at deliver the valedictory address. pediatrics and nephrology of Health and Human Services' executive director of Secretariat noon in the Courtyard of Le Novello, who will receive an practice. Task Force on Pediatric for Family, Laity, Women and Mans Hall. Rain site for the honorary doctor of science de­Novello began work with the HIV/AIDS and co-chaired the Youth for the National commencement will be inside gree, was sworn in as surgeon USPHS in 1978 in the National NIH Advisory Committee on Conference of Catholic Bishops the Angela Athletic Facility. general of the U.S. Public Institutes of Health (NIH). She Women's Health Issues. and Christian Dawson Scott, 
United States Surgeon Gen­Health Service (USPHS) in 1990. served as the deputy director of While at the NIH, Novello has British writer and editor. eral Antonia Novello, the first As surgeon general, she serves the National Institute of Chil-also made contributions to the Leckey, who will receive an woman and first Hispanic sur-as an advisor on matters such dren's Health and Human De-drafting and enactment of the 
see NOVELLO/page 6 

Boehnen to deliver ND valedictory 
By SARAH DORAN way that they see these issues doctorate in English. He said he Associate News Editor in their lives. plans to be an English pro­"Language is the central force fessor. · 
1993 valedictorian Scott that we as humans have at our He was awarded an Andrew Boehnen will leave the Univer­disposal," he said. "In my Mellon Fellowship in Humanis­sity of Notre Dame with a.3.993 address. I will call on them to tic Studies which will pay his cumulative grade point average take their Catholic language · tuition and fees in graduate and will deliver the valedictory beyond the pulpit and engage in school as well provide a address at the commencement the issues." $12,500 stipend. The fellowship ceremony on 
Boehnen said that being the is awarded to college seniors Sunday. Valedictorian of his class was and recent graduates of 
Hoehnen. an never a goal. outstanding promise with the English major "There was never anything objective of encouraging them from Medina, that consumed me to achieve to join the humanities faculties Ohio, said this," he said. "Grades were at American colleges and uni­that his always secondary. versities. This year 83 Mellon address will "In fact, upon dropping me off Fellows were selected from encourage his at Notre Dame as a freshman, more than 1,100 applicants. peers to take my parents said that they would Outside of the classroom,
Scott

their Catholic be very pleased for me to Boehnen is a four year editorial education out Boehnen achieve a C average," he added. staff member of the "Juggler," into the world and apply it to Boehnen will attend Stanford Notre Dame's . fine arts current political issues and the University next year to pursue a see BOEHNEN/page 6 
Castillo named Saint Mary's valedictorian 
By MARA DIVIS GPA after seven semesters. She attended a bilingual high school News Writer said that she is excited that this in Mexico, Castillo spoke both gives her the opportunity to English and Spanish before 
Beatriz Castillo has been address her friends in the class coming to Saint Mary's. She named the first international of 1993. spent her sophomore year in valedictorian of a graduating ''I'm very pleased that I have Angers, France, through Notre class at Saint Mary's since the opportunity to address my Dame's international studies 1979, according to Teresa classmates," she said. ''I'd like program. Marcy, assistant to the vice to thank my friends for the This gave her the chance to president. sense of community we've cre­experience a second foreign 
Castillo, a French and Psy­ated through the years and how culture and return to a home chology major from Cuer­that encouraged our growth." base in the United States, she navaca, Mexico, holds a 3.9 An international student who 
see CASTILLO/page 6 



page 2 Friday, May 14, 1993 
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Goodbye Linebacker shoes 
Sunday will be a day to remember for all of eternity. In one 24-hour period I will become a college graduate and celebrate my 22nd birthday -two big hints 

that  adulthood  has  Monica Yant  
arrived for an extended visit.  1992-93 Editor-in-Chief  
But what may be even  

more exasperating than the prospect of car payments and varicose veins is a task I have dreaded for weeks. For come Sunday, against every ounce of my determination to hold onto the carefree days of college, I will retire my Linebacker shoes. 
The Linebacker Lounge is to Saturday nights at Notre Dame as football games are to Saturday afternoons. And to leave this place without at least a dozen horribly embarrassing memories and several pairs of ruined shoes is a rarity. 
You see,. the Linebacker is what college is all about, a virtual anathema to all things civilized and mature. There's the feeling that waiting in line for an hour just for the opportunity to have drinks spilled on you is something your parents and dry cleaner just wouldn't understand. 
Then there's the risk-taking for the under-21 crowd begging to get past the Commando bouncers, and the sense of satisfaction when they recognize a senior's face. 
More than anything, there's the constant reminder that when you do enter the Linebacker, you've checked your pride at the door. But that's ok, because so have the other 500 people who've chosen to break the fire code ·ust to hear Barry Manilow and Neil Dimond favorites all night. Among other things unprintable, it's been said that dancing at the Linebacker is like giving birth to triplets standing up. 
So it comes as no surprise that the shoes I christened so long ago have become near and dear to my heart, just as the place itself has. They were at once a respectable pair of white sneakers. They are now black and crusty, and have for some time been perched above my door due to a legitimate fear of the incredible stench. 
The shoes were with me on some of the best nights of my life. They've shared countless good times and an occasional nightmare -like the night someone sprayed mace on the crowd by the bar. They got me to the bathroom through throngs of people, and learned the quickest route back to campus when I missed my ride home. 
At least I know I'm not alone. All over campus, others like me will be paying their last respects to Linebacker shoes. It's not a choice but a mandate: From our mothers, and from an inner voice that we've disobeyed for almost as long, we've been told to give the shoes the Heisman. 
It will be sad, but I'm planning a proper burial. Better than all the childhood eulogies for dead birds and squirrels combined. 
For with my shoes will go a part of me, but not all of me. 
Like Notre Dame, they will be missed. And like the friends and memories squeezed into our four years in God's Country, they are priceless reminders of time spent living and learning about myself and the world around me. 
And like the Linebacker song, shoes, or no shoes -I will survive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The observer. 
Today's Staff  Production  
Brian Kubicki  
News  Kathy Fong  
Meredith McCullough  Accent  
Sarah Doran  • Kenya Johnson  
Sports  Christy Frederick  
George Dohrmann  Graphics  
Jason Kelly  Brendan Regan  
VIewpoint  Lab Tech  
Guy Loranger  David Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

FORECAST Partly sunny and 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, May 14. 
warmer Saturday with Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
highs in the upper 60s. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 
SMC,waduates donate gift to college 
• NO E DAME-The Saint Mary's Class of 1993 is do­nating an amount of money to the College to replace the sign on U.S. 33 in front of the campus as this year's senior class gift, according to Senior Class President Julie Marsh. The class board is replacing the green metallic sign with another sign that has not been chosen yet, Marsh said. The sign will be dedicated in the memory of Kate Walsh, Elizabeth Bayer and Regina Simon, the three members of the class of 1993 that died during the class' four years at the College. 
Laux named Ind. employee of the year 
• NOTRE DAME-Nicole Laux, recently selected as Saint Mary's Student Employee of the Year, has been named Indiana State Student Employee of the Year by the Mid­west Association of Student Employment Administrators (MASEA). Laux, a senior from Bryant, Ind., has been employed by the Saint Mary's Writing Center for over two years, where she has made significant contributions, ac­cording to Kathy Thomas, Saint Mary's writing center coordinator. Laux was chosen as the Saint Mary's student employee of the Year from a group of 10 finalists. MASEA made Laux their recipient on the basis of reliability, the quality of her work, initiative, professionalism and uniqueness of contribution to her work. She will now en­ter the regional competition for Student Employee of the Year. 
OF INTEREST 
• The Volunteer send-off is Saturday, May 15 at 
10:30 a.m. in Washington Hall. Family, friends, faculty and staff are invited to help celebrate the seniors who are volunteering for the next year or two with programs such as Holy Cross Associates and Peace Corps. University President Fr. Edward Malloy and Lou Nanni, director of the Center for the Homeless, will speak. Any seniors who did not register or were uncertain about their program, please feel free to come and bring your family and friends. Reception following at the Center for Social Concerns. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING May 13 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 355,895,500 -2.79 to 243.27 S&P COMPOSITE -5.57 to 439.23 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -34.32 to 3,479.99

UNCHANGED 1412 

GOLD 
+$0.50 to $340.00/oz 
SILVER +$.010 to $3.917/oz 
Cloudy and cooler 
Sunday with a 50 
percent chance of 
thunderstorms. Highs 
in the mid 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 55 34 Atlanta 72 59 Bogota 72 54 Boca Raton 89 83 Cairo 79 57 Cincinnati 70 67 Chicago 47 36 Cleveland 44 37 Corona 85 75 Dallas 80 53 Detroit 52 39 Houston 80 75 Indianapolis 62 49 Jerusalem 61 48 London 55 48 Los Angeles 82 61 Madrid 61 41 Moscow 66 46 New York 70 48 Paris 64 50 Philadelphia 71 52 Rome 66 48 

© 1993 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
u 
Seattle 52 46 South Bend 67 43 Stockton 65 50 St. Joe 67 60 
Tokyo 66 52 

CLOUDY 
Washington D.C. 67 50 

Tischler awarded writing scholarship 
• NOTRE DAME-Stacey Tischler, a University of Notre Dame junior from Fairfield, Ohio, has been awarded the University's Red Smith Writing Scholarship for 1993-1994. An American Studies major with a career interest in sports journalism, Tischler interned last summer in the sports department of Cincinnati television station WLWT. She's a Dean's list student with a grade point average of 3.86. The scholarship is administered by the department o American Studies and is annually awarded to an outstanding student at Notre Dame. Tischler is the daughter of Lawrence and Andrea Tischler. 
Libraries receive 2 millionth volume 

• 
NOTRE DAME-The University ofwAo/"''' Notre Dame Libraries received their 2 '' millionth volume in April with the gift of a rare early printed book entitled "Index Preclare Dictorum" from the private collection of Abbot Astrik Gabriel, di­rector of the Ambrosiana microfilm and photographic collection and director emeritus of the University's Medieval Institute. The book, a 1518 A.D. edition, is the first of a four-volume set of "Collected Works" by medieval theologian Jean Gerson. Gerson, born in 1363, was chancellor of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in France and chancellor of the University of Paris. Gabriel volume was formally presented to Robert Miller, director o libraries, at a Friends of the Library at Notre Dame dinner April23. 

• 
Of Interests are for free, one-time events of general interest. The Observer provides of interests for free as a public service to students and faculty. Of Interests are printed for one day only, the day the event is being held. If the event is held before noon, they are printed the day before the event. The Observer news department re­serves the right to edit all entries; of interests are not guaranteed. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On this day in history: 
• 
In 1914: Mexican rebels take Tampico after heavy fighting, fear Huerta naval blockade. 

• 
In 1931: In Paris, Aristide Briand proposes European customs union. 

• 
In 1945: U.S. and Britian tell Tito Trieste must remain under Allied control. 

• 
In 1967: In New York, Mickey Mantle hits his SOOth home run. 

• 
In 1983: Reagan pardons Watergate burglar Eugenio Martinez, but denies pardons to Jeb Magruder and E. Howard Hunt. 




f.. •J ~ j• .:'\ :· ,.r:l{'' \ ... ··-­
'· -=·ri:~ •
'·'. 

Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Colloquy lays out plans for NO's next ten years 
regular teaching and research must have an affirmative action • A committee on architecture 
By DAVID KINNEY Editor-in-Chief 
The University must strive for excellence in graduate educa­tion while maintaining and im­proving undergraduate pro­grams, University President Father Edward Malloy wrote in the final report of the Colloquy for the Year 2000, submitted to the Board of Trustees May 7. 
The report, which is the cul­mination of 18 months of Uni­versity-wide discussion involv­ing more than 100 faculty, staff, students and administrators, sets out the priorities for the University for the next decade. Malloy then molded the results into a personal vision. 
The broad-based Colloquy includes 43 recommendations addressing academics, student life, University finances, athlet­ics and other areas. 
The contents of the report will be reviewed, discussed and implemented by other commit­tees and University groups, and will provide a basis for the next fund raising campaign to begin in the fall of 1994. 
Malloy held that graduate and undergraduate education go hand in hand. "Research invig­orates teaching and teaching stimulates research." 
In keeping with that balance, the report suggests that the University improve undergrad­uate education by adding 150 first time, merit scholarships were recommended. 
Malloy said this is the only way the University can remain affordable and competitive for the best students. 
The report addresses the need to sustain the Catholic character of the University, in particular by ensuring a faculty in which "dedicated and com­mitted" Catholics predominate. 
Malloy explained that, as a Catholic institution, Notre Dame Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter, it held that the faculty should include only a propor­tion of Catholics sufficient to sustain the Catholic tradition. 
The University will create four committees to further study areas of the report: 
• A University Curriculum committee will study the quality of undergraduate education, fo­cusing on curriculum, courses of study, learning resources and campus environment. 

Ellen and Mike Congratulations! 
Your life long dreams are a reality now, what a great accomplishment! Enjoy your weekend -looking up for inspiration. On Sunday--be observant, you'll see. 
Love always, Sharon and John 
Congratulations 
Eddie! 
May your smile bring oy to the poor ofBolivia 
Love, Mom and Dad 
Notre Dame Club of North Jersey 
Attention: Graduates Bound for North Jersey 
Congratulations, on your graduation. The Notre Dame Club of North Jersey would like to welcome you to the New Jersey area. Our area is, basically, aJI towns north of the I-78 corridor. If your returning to home, welcome back. If you wtll be new to the area, we look forward to greeting you. 
Either way, there are some phone numbers which should be ~elpful to you. Th.e first is our Irish Hotline. It's your lifeline to late breaking club informauon. Please use this to find out what's happening or to let us know of any address changes. 
North Jersey Irish Hotline (201) 543-5887 
The second is that of Doon Wintz '85, our Young Alumni Coordinator. Please call on Doon if you'd like to get actively involved in the club or just have questions about the area 
Doon Wintz '85 (201) 292-4921 
Some dates to markdown for this summer. 
Young Alumni Happy Hour, Catalina Bar & Grill, Cedar KnollsThu., June 3 
Thu., July I 
Young Alumni Happy Hour, Catalina Bar & Grill, Cedar Knolls Sat., July 11 
ND Family Picnic Sunday, location t.b.a. Sun., July 25 
Take Me Out To The Ball Game. Yankees vs. Angels Sat., August 28 (tent.) Young Alumni Bar Wars date t.b.a. New Graduate Welcome 
Name:  I'm new to the area  
Planned  __  This is a temporary address  
Address:  __  I want to get involved with the club  
Home Phone:  Interested in Community Service  
mail  to:Doon Wintz  ND Club of North Jersey,  Box  2205,  Morristown,  NJ  07962-2205  

faculty over 10 years, while policy in the hiring of Catholics, seeking a $40 million endow­as well as women and minori­ment for the Graduate School ties. But he said there has been for the recruitment and support a decline in willingness at the of graduate students. departmental level to seek out 
The University will also create and hire Catholic faculty. a committee on teaching and "If that continues, we will be research "to develop a com­a different kind of University in prehensive strategic plan for 10 years," he added. "I think improving research and schol­that's unacceptable, and so do arship at Notre Dame," the re­the trustees." port states. This aspect of the report re­
Increasing financial aid to ceived the most criticism from undergraduates and fellowships faculty members. At issue is the to graduates and professional report's suggestion that Catholic students is another priority. The faculty should "predominate," report recommends that the which some faculty think University strive to meet 100 implies quotas and a focus on percent of financial need numbers. without burdening students Although the senate agreed with loans and work. For the with the reports' concern about and the fine and performing arts will be charged with creating a mission statement and analyzing each discipline's curriculum and future. 
• 
As part of an focus on inter­national education, a University Committee on International Studies will create a mission statement for the overseas programs, examine their aca­demic strength and plan for future growth. 

• 
A Committee on University Libraries will address the need to continue the move toward video and electronic resources, the demand for more staff and increasing space problems in the Hesburgh and individual college libraries. 


Malloy emphasized that 

....---------------------·­
page 4 The Observer Friday, May 14,1993 
Ceremony 
continued from page 1 
retired president, chief operating officer and director of The Coca-Cola Company and chairman emeritus of the Notre Dame board of trustees, will ac­cept the University's Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. Notre Dame has presented the award annually since 1883. 
Other recipients of University honorary degrees at the com­mencement include: 
•Shirley Abrahamson, justice of Wisconsin Supreme Court. Abramson, who will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree, is the first and only woman to serve on Wisconsin's highest court. She is currently serving her second 10-year term. 
•Blandina 
Cardenas-Ramirez, professor at Southwest Texas State University. Cardenas­Ramirez, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, is a leading advocate for minority students in higher education. 

•Robert 
Casey, governor of Pennsylvania. Casey, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, is currently serv­ing his second term as gover­nor. He is the country's leading pro-life Democrat, making fre­quent speeches in opposition to the party's position on abortion. 

•Thomas 
Coleman, senior partner of Adler, Coleman & Co. Coleman, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, 


has been a member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees since 1984. 
•Benjamin 
Cosgrove, retired senior vice president of The Boeing Co. Cosgrove, who will receive and honorary doctor of engineering degree, is a 1949 alumnus of Notre Dame. He is and a world-renowned expert on airline safety and was in­strumental in engineering every Boeing aircraft. 

•Cardinal 
Cahal Daly, arch­bishop of Armagh and primate of Ireland. Daly, who will re­ceive and honorary doctor of laws degree, is considered the leading intellectual in the Catholic Church of Ireland for more than 20 years. 

•Carla 
Hills, former secretary of housing and urban de­velopment (HUD) and former 


U.S. trade representative. Hills, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, was the nation's principle negotiator on international trade talks during the Bush administration. 
•Father 
Henryk Jankowski, parish priest of St. Brygida Church in Gdansk, Poland. Jankowski, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, has been the spiritual leader of Poland's Solidarity la­bor union since its formation at the Gdansk shipyard in 1980. 

•Alan 
Page, justice of the Minnesota Supreme Court. Page, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, is the first African American elected to the Minnesota Supreme Court. . 

•John 
Hoberts, emeritus pro­fessors of chemistry at Califor­nia Institute of Technology. Roberts, who will receive and 


honorary doctor of science de­gree, has conducted pioneering studies of organic reaction mechanisms and applications of carbon-13 and nitrogen-15 nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry to organic chem­istry and biochemistry. 
•Albert 
Raboteau, dean of Princeton University Graduate School. Raboteau, who will re­ceive and honorary doctor of laws degree, specializes in African-American religion and American Catholicism. 

•Arnold 
Weber, president of Northwestern University. We­ber, who will receive and honorary doctor of laws degree, is the university's 14th president. lie id an expert on economic policy and industrial and labor relations. 



I')=#a E:J' 1;;--J% I Excellenl Music. f"ine Dinin8 Rnd f!f'ink~ Congratulations Notre Dame Graduates! Celebrate the Big Day at The Madiron~ster Bar We'll have 1,1/4live Maine Lobsters-$19.95 Smoked Prime Rib-$12.95 Stuffed Cornish Hen-$11.95 & of course plenty of Oysters! Add $2.00 to your meals & stay to enjoy The Cooler Kings live! 1st come 1st serve. Dinner 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. FOR DElAILS ..• Entertainment 10:00 p.m. to 3:00a.m. BRING THIS TICKET TO FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 421 East Madison Street, South Bend, IN. 46617-By the East Race UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN  
CONGRATULATIONS LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS in the Class of 193 Special Congratulations to Scott Boehnen, London Pro ram Fall 191; Valedictorian, Class of 3  

The Observer page 5 
Friday, May 14, 1993 





Arthur Andersen Welcotnes the Follow-ing 1993 University of Notre Datne and Saint Mary's College Graduates to Our Firtn 
William A. Allen Melissa L. Mong 
Chicago Houston 
Jennifer L. Blanchet R. Patrick Murray II 
Chicago Indianapolis 
Maureen E. Brown Kerry L. Norton 
New York Chicago 
JosephS. Burke Angela C. Pearson 
Chicago Chicago 
James A. Burkhart Jr. 
Kathleen M. Phares 
Cleveland 
Chicago
David D. Cathcart 
Richard M. Riley 
Atlanta 

Chicago
William L. Dietz 
Eric A. Rojas
Minneapolis 
Boston
Patricia A. Fosmoe 
Kevin A. Rule
Chicago 

Chicago
Thomas Hitselberger Baltimore Mark A. Schmidt Atlanta
Elizabeth M. Janz Chicago Robert M. Silveri i Stamford ~

Scott D. Kamenick Chicago Edward A. Smith ~ 
~
Jeffery G. Stark 
l
Susan M. Kurowski Milwaukee 
Chicago 

Tricia J. Tilford 
1
William D. LaFever Phoenix 
Chicago 

Julie A. Vaccarella 
j
R. Geoffrey Levy 
Chicago
Atlanta 

Lynn I. Vandermeulen 
I
Michael P. MacKinnon 
Chicago
Boston 

Scott J. Vickman 
l
Michael R. Malody Jr. 
Minneapolis
Los Angeles 
Kevin C. Weinman 
Erin M. McCauley 
Charlotte
Washington, D.C. Michael E. Wendowski
Kelly: A. McDonough 
Indianapolis
Cleveland 
Tina M. Wojciechowski 
Chicago
Minneapolis 






----------------------· 
page 6 The Observer Friday, may 14, 1993 

"I really like both fields," Castillo said. "All my interest in 
Today is your day
language and culture led me to
Order your Subscription 

Your mountain is waiting

to The Observer now! 
Go against 
So...get on your way"

the grain. 
Cut down on salt. 
-Dr. Seuss

to the graduates-Congrats 
& 

Congratulations to Melissa Lucke & all
Best Wishes 
of her dear friends in the Class of '93 . 
. . . time does fly. Pam & George Lucke 
Gotcha! Your "favorite" yearbook advisor Remember the 
• .. 5 ·.. ,sports section?! Darcy Mehling & Steve Tann-PHS '86-ND '93 
"t'()u'r-e A Sur-e Winner­
When ~vu Live At 
t-llc:kvO' Vlllaue 


§ave S24-()! 

You are warmly invited to attend the Senior Volunteer Send Off to be held Saturday, May 15, 1993 at Washington Hall For Seniors doing volunteer work after graduation and their family and friends  


Hurry ln. For a limited time on a ofJ8-yBBr /fNJSB. 
Ettlclencles from only $250 
1-Bedrooms from only $265 

2-Bedrooms from only $325 
Jeffrey Ajhar 
Christopher Ford Patrick Mcinerney
Andrea Auycr Christopher Godino Lori Miller
Jeffrey Bcrgm ann Gabriela Gonzalez Joseph Minutoliarcndan Blockowicz Keith Grant Tyler Moore
• Beautifully Landscaped • 24-hour Emergency 
Thomas Buckley 
Chinctta Hart Christopher Mumen 
Grounds Malntananca Service 
Heather Cameron Matthew Helminiak Susan O'Connor
• Pool &Clubhouse • Planned Activities 
Archie Chaney Craig Hentrich Tam arra Otey
• Laundry Facilities • Free Aerobics 
Cleveland Colston 
Dylan Hogan Dawn Overstreet 
• Balcony or Patio • Close To Shopping 
Marilyn Cragin Jeffrey Holland Josc{>h Parolin 
• Air Conditioning 

Isac Date Jeannette Jacot Wilham Pollard
Charles Datz Adrian Jarrell Rosella Portolcsi
What are you waiting !or? Call or stop by today and 
Becky DeChellis 
Timothy Kalamaros Nicholas Radkewich
we11 show you why you can't lose at Hickory Village. 
Brenda Drake 
Todd Kazmierski Melanie Richardson
Adanna Fails Dylan Lohonen Anita Verdugo
272-1880 

Thomas Fean Adam Maisano Diane Wong Vincent Femenella Kanneeleyah McGill Darko Zuazo 
Matthew Helminiak -Outstanding Graduate in HRM/08 Todd Kazmierski -Outstanding Graduate in MIS 
+llCKORU 
DlLLAC]Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 





Boehnen 
continued from page 1 
magazine, the 1991 provost's student appointment to the Committee to Evaluate the Freshman Writing Program, the 1991 advisor to the freshmen class council, and the 1990 Saint Edward's Hall rep­resentative to the freshman class council. During the fall 1991 semester, Boehnen stud­ied in the University's London program and served as a vol­unteer tutor for the Saint Mary of the Angels Church in London. 
Boehnen is a National Merit Scholar sponsored by the Stan­ley Works Corp., the Hichard Hoffman Collins Scholar, and the Medina County Retired Teachers Association Scholar­ship winner. He also received the Meehan Medal given by the University English department for best senior essay. 
The other highest ranking graduates in the University's eolleges are Melissa Rodriquez, a finance major in the College of Business, Jason Wagner. a chemical engineering major in the College of Engineering, and Michael Frazier, a biology and theology major in the College of Science. 

Castillo 
continued from page 1 
said. 

"After France I was ready to come back to Saint Mary's," she said. "I missed it a lot. My junior and senior years were very reaffirming of how much I liked it here." 
Castillo is highly thought of in each of her departments, Marcy said. This stems from her interest in integrating the two fields, and her interest in the liberal arts. 
study French. Psychology gives psychology major into literature you a better understanding of courses." people." She added that the French 
She has brought her interna­department was not surprised tional perspective to the class­that Castillo had been named room, and has added to dis­number one in her class. cussion in both departments, "We were not at all sur­according to Renee Kingcaid, prised," she said. "We were associate professor of modern certainly delighted." languages. Castillo plans a career in in­
"Whatever she had to say was ternational education and is coming from a different still waiting to hear from the perspective and background," International Educational she said. "She reads very Development. a foreign thoughtfully and she's able to program through Columbia bring her insights from her University. 
..You're off to Great Places 

Novello 
continued from page 1 
honorary doctor of letters de­gree, was an official advisor to the American Bishops at synods in Rome in 1980 and 1987. She has also served with public and private schools and colleges, on seminary faculties, in broadcasting, as a parish and diocesan consultant and as a conference and retreat leader. 
Scott will be awarded an honorary doctor of humanities degree in recognition of her work in keeping the writings of her father, historian Christo­pher Dawson, in print. 
Dawson's writings on under­graduate education were used as a blueprint in establishing the College's Christian Culture {renamed Humanistic Studies) program. Saint Mary's became the first college in the United States to adopt Dawson's un­dergraduate interdisciplinary education plan in 1956. 
Scott has held editorial posi­tions with many British publica­tions and served as foreign rights manager of the British Society of Authors. She is the author of "A Historian and His World," the biography of her father. Presently, Scott is the literary executor of Dawson's estate which involves arranging for publications of his work throughout the world. 
The President's Medal for outstanding service to Saint 
Mary's and dedication to the lo­cal community will be pre­sented to Mary McGahey Dwan, a resident of Washington, D.C. 
Dwan has served as a grade school teacher and a Project Head Start director in Washing­ton, as national chair of the Madeleva Society at Saint Mary's and as a member of the College's Board of Regents. 

~­--­ 
- 
Frida~May14, 1993  The Observer  page 7  



esc to recognize seniors in volunteer send-off 
cording to Mary Ann Roemer who have not yet signed-up at­ate schools or have already say 'This is what we are
By MEREDITH 
been offered jobs, but have about... This is a successful
coordinator of senior volunteer tend as well.
McCULLOUGH Each year, between 150 and asked for deferments, she ex-Notre Dame graduate," she
programs at the Center. A
News Editor 
plained. added.
reception will follow at the esc. 200 students choose post-grad­
With speakers including Uni­uation volunteer work, Roemer Volunteering "puts their ca-Last year the Send-Oft was .at-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's versity President Father Ed­said. This may even be an un­reer in a different perspective," tended by over 130 graduatmgseniors planning to participate she said. Upon returning from seniors, according to the Center. 
ward Malloy and Director for derestimate, she added, for the
in up to three years of social count does not include those the experience, she added, A total of 600 people took part
the Center for the Homeless Lou 
service upon graduation will be students who do not seek op­"their focus is not the same. It is in the ceremony. 
Nanni, the ceremony promises
honored tomorrow at the Cen­to be one that celebrates and portunities through the center. not as materialistic. It is really M.J. Murray-Vachon, a 1982 ter For Social Concern's fourth satisfying to see that you can Saint Mary's graduate, shared
affirms the students' decision to "These are not 'do gooders,"'
annual Senior Volunteer Send­said Roemer. "They are stu­incorporate your values into her experiences as a volunteer
volunteer. A short slide show
Off. your career," she said. with the Holy Cross Associates
and a blessing by Father Don dents who have learned so
All students heading towards much already (at college), but The Send-Off is a way for stu-Program.
McNeill, director of the CSC, are
post-graduate service as well as dents and parents alike to cele-This year, Nanni will address
also planned for the event. want to deepen their experi­
their parents, friends and rec­Over 100 students have al­ences-(post-graduate service) brate in the reality of the deci-the students and their parents. tors are invited to the one hour sion to serve, according to He will reflect upon his work at
ready registered to attend the is a deeper commitment." 
ceremony beginning at 10:30 Roemer. the Center for the Homeless. 
ceremony , according to Roe­Many participants have al­
a.m. in Washington Hall, ac-"It is great for the parents," But the Send-Off is just the
mer, but she encourages those ready been accepted to gradu­she said. "It is important for the first step in preparing graduat­
parents to see that their ing seniors, for their service children are not the only ones experience. Volunteers under~o participating, that their chil-training through their dren are not stuck in a sixties particular program, some start-time warp." ing as early as this summer. 
"It is good for them to hear "Every program has a differ­(Father) Malloy stand up and ent emphasis," said Roemer. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND 
Congratulates 
To Our Teacher.. 
Champagne Wishes
the Class of 1993 
& Caviar Dreams 

May your Graduation
-Best wishes to Todd Broski 
~ooiiU~

for a speedy recovery-
with Excitement

Call Chris Russ '79 
Love,

(219) 449-8851 
Mom, Dad, Ellen, Chris, 
for free membership information 
DaDa & Grand-pa 



Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Affairs wishes to thank the 1992--93 Residence Hall Assistants for their hard work and dedication this year. Congratulations and Good Luck! 
Ramira Alamilla Doug Clark OsieGabiam Nicole Lamborne Peter Obringer Joshua Shenk Vicky Amankwa M ilissa Comer Chris Garlitz Christian Langlois Jennie O'Hea Kris Sherwood Kristin Appelget Luke Conway Michael Gaunt Ann Leahy Dawn Overstreet PaulShuga Jen Avegno Anthony Coury Tony Gentine Tom Leahy Marc Pantarotto Time Slentz Amy Bacigalupi Kiernan Cressy John Gillet Cara Lewis Angie Pearson Nick Spangler Ellen Barresi Richard Cretella BenGonring Matthew Leyser Maureen Quinn Marty Sprunck Chris Beaudet Shannon Cullinan Donald Good Art Licygiewicz Rob Quintos Patricia Stanford Jennifer Beisty Terese DeCoursey Nancy Gozdecki Joleen Littig Michael Rafford DeShawn Stewart Robert Benedetto Chris Degiorgio Sean Green Paulita Llopis Pike Elli Reichelt Robin Stumpf Lisa Benner Steve Deick Michelle Griffin Ted Loehrke Todd Rice Ryan Sweeny Dennis Berry Michael DiChiara Kerry Hagan Tom Looby Gene Richards Jen Swize Volker Blankenstein Jean DiTullio Erik Hanson Christa Lopiccolo Rosie Riordan Dave Tarantino John Boita John Donlan Ann Marie Hartman Timothy Loughran Mary Rodgers Joe Theby Zulfiqar Bokhari Mike Donnino Margaret Haugh Paul Maloney Andres Rodriguez John Thurston Elizabeth Boyle Mike DuBay Dan Heenan Jen Martin Marta Roemer Kimberly Tracy Michelle Bresnahan Nadine Duhan Kathleen Hitselberger Alix Martinez Michelle Rossi Joe Turbyville Sheila Buckman Scott Ecker Eric Horvath Nick Mathews Michelle Rovang Ann VerKamp Bracken Burns Marisol Ejercito AmyHoum Richard Mathurin Thomas Runtz Scott Walker Anne Cahill Chris Elmore Mike Huie Michele Miller Kyle Sanders Mike Warmerdam Amy Campbell William Farabaugh Chris Hunter Mike Moreland Ida Sandoval Kenna Weidner Andrew Campbell Jeff Fisher Heather Jablonski Mike Murphy Michelle Sanosi Eddie Wetzel Dave Cathcart Robert Fitzgerald Jen Joyce Pat Murray Susan Sattan Ken Wincko Andrea Cavanaugh Sarah Fitzpatrick Mike Kane Katie McBride Matthew Seng Jenny Witt Kris Cebulla John Foley Daniel Kavanagh Dennis McCann Beth Seymour Andrea Wong Patti Chern Chris Ford David Koo Karl Nass Jason Shaw Tony Yang Dana Ciacciarelli Justine Fortier AI Kozar Keith Nicholson Chris Shea Glenn Zubryd Tina Clark Ron Freeman Dave Kuhn Paul Noonan Shannon Shea 
We also wish to thank and congratulate the following Assistant Rectors who are graduating this year. 
Elizabeth A. Ahem Mary S. Hatch William A. Pifher David J. Bianchi Patricia S. Hug Mary E. Reilly Andrew H. Curoe Timothy D. Kaiser Ann M. Schlaffman Patrick M. DeLong Matthew C. Keating Timothy J. Schorn Maria T. Fleming James F. Malloy Mark G. VanRyne Jacqueline A. Galko Laura K. Manzi Mary I. Yu Richard S. Goode William W. Matthews Thomas !. Guinan Michael !. Messaglia 
Our deepest gratitude to the following Rectors who are leaving us this y~ar. Thank you so much for your service and caring commitment to the students of Notre Dame. Rev. Andre Leveille, C.S.C.-Rector, Cavanaugh Hall Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C.-Rector, Farley Hall Ms. Laurie Brink-Rector, Pasquerilla West Hall 

Four Years in Review 
page 8 Friday, May 14, 1993 

1 
"Swim Team Bus Crashes"


Top 10 News 
Two members of the Notre Dame swim team were killed early Jan. 24th when a United Limo bus carrying the team overturned on the Indiana Toll Road.

Stories from 
Freshmen Colleen Ilipp and Meghan Beeler 
died and over 30 others were injured, 
including freshman Haley Scott, who 
!'ft.:<~~t~~:: N:c:-w:».N::-o:r~:l1k{';.':-:<~<>> 
~~~t>g-;-t.-;~~~­1'0~'!.~':>1;S!W.::.~--;,, ., 
remained in the hospital with serious back

~~~:;:


1989 ~ 1993 
2 
"Burtchaell to resign amid 
sexual misconduct charges" 
r ~~ 
~ The Observer • 


..nl ...~ffl)>df!M;~ 
~-"'.wti~~~M~1 
........ 
··--..... ~yptohtf'!"10ti'v4:1 Nt:l(;1J:tM:x.1<KI 
~ 
~.h·.. 

5 
"CALL challenges University's pro-life 
commitment" 
The Observer 
CALL Ch~ Un~lty'* ptoltt. CQB'!n\ftm.tnl 
_.,.., 
-
-
~~' 

11Clinton speech stresses Catholic service, values" 

Although drawing heavily from Catholic social teaching, Democratic presidential candidate Gov. Bill Clinton's Friday speech at Notre Dame was marked with pro-choice references directly opposite that of the Catholic 

~""'"""""' ...'"' Church.
ot;f;->(.·..·.pw.·t'. 

Sept.14, 1992 
Close to 100 pro-life students challenged the University and its President Father Edward Malloy Friday, claiming that the Univeristy had failed to uphold Catholic teaching concerning abortion. 
March 22, 1993 
Rumors surrounding Notre Dame theology professor Father Burtchaell have been confirmed by an article in this week's issue of the National Catholic Reporter (NCR) which states that Burtchaell has agreed to resign amid charges of sexual misconduct with male 
undergraduates. 
Dec. 3, 1991 
3 
"SUFR stages day-long sit-in 
in Registrar's office" 

A group of 60 students staged a day­long sit-in Wednesday in the Registrar's office demanding open negotation with University President Father Edward Malloy regarding the demands raised by members of Students United For Respect (SUFR). 
April18, 1991 
6 
11Campus leaders react to war 
in Gulf" 

The onset of the war 

in the Persian Gulf 
last night elicited 
GULF WAR BEGINS varied reactions from campus leaders. 
Jan. 17, 1990 
9 
"Faculty, administration 
negotiating agreement" 

Faculty and administrative representatives agreed to an April 15 settlement that will help resolve faculty concerns about their participation in the academic governance of the University. 
~ .<..tr).:. .&. ,.,r ·-~ _,. .,.. -r~ ·. {;<. ·. 

April 22, 1992 
injuries for six weeks. 
January 24, 1992 
4 
"St. Michael's destroyed in 
early morning blaze" 
-.."!*"11'.1!'18'11111!'111111~llliiJ!Illi~ 
7 
"Loretto renovation certain; SMC community divided" 
r.il The Observer g 

•,; 
1~-: 
w~~-t~m."'~l'l'(i~ ~~~-~11ft~'"' 

10 
"Sculptures ignite debate 
on campus" 


Although Marcia Kaplan's controversial sculptures have been removed from Le Mans Hall lawn, the pieces continue to evoke questions about art exhibition on Saint Mary's campus. 
iW~IUIII~~­~-·<4~1M 


Sept.7, 1992 
An explosive fire engu If e d and 
destroyed St. Michael's Laundry in the early morning hours Thursday. By 
2:30 a.m. flames could be seen burning through the roof, as inside of the building glowed brightly from the spreading names. 
Nov. 16, 1989 
Renovation of the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's is imminent, despite opposition from many in the Saint Mary's community, according to Mary Turgi, chairperson of the renovation committee. 
Nov. 20, 1991 



Editor's Note: Selections were made by members of The Observer news department. 

.------------~---------~-----------­
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 9 
Gender relations report presented to Trustees 


By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
In separate reports presented to the Board of Trustees on May 6, student government suggested ways to improve both gender relations on campus and the quality of undergraduate education at Notre Dame. 
The gender relations report, "Striking a Balance," incorpo­rated information gathered from surveys of the students and rectors and made recom­mendations to improve gender relations in academics, athlet­ics, campus ministry, health and safety, social life and residence life. 
"The report was met with a positive response from the trustees," said Maureen Con­nelly, committee chair of the gender relations report. "They were supportive of most things in the report that we want to accomplish." 
A : 1. Notre Dame Club of New York 231 Park Avenue Suitt 520 New York. N.Y.l0017 CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 1993 from ND Club of NYC for information on club events and activities, call the Hot Line (212) 753-DOME Dear Michael, Congrats! Glad you could join me these past 2 years at ND. We finally made it! Good luck always!  into action." referendum," said Connelly. The trustees also responded "They fell back on Notre Dame favorably to a rec9mmendation being a special place where co­that the University progress ed housing did not belong. It more quickly toward fulfilling was the only thing that we the goals of the NCAA's Title IX, wanted to accomplish but which calls for a proportional couldn't." percentage of female and male athletic scholarships. Other recommendations in­The report also recommended cluded:  
Congratulations Laverne Ya.zzie Best wishes for the future! Thanks for working. -Educational Talent Search  


Love from your fav little sis, Ellen 
P.S. Happy Birthday, May 24th! 
Think you know all there is to know about Bookstore Basketball? 
1. 
Who is the "patron saint" of Bookstore Basketball? 

2. 
What is the longest team name in Bookstore history? 

3. 
How many Bookstore games have been played inside? (If you guessed "0", you're wrong!) 

4. 
Who was the only male to hav.:: a s~x-tional named after him? 

5. 
In which dorm were Bookstore signups taken over the phone? Which roof'l? 

6. 
Which team bas made 11 Sweet 16 appearances? 

7. 
Two Bookstore players were selected for the Olympic Basketball Team (different years). Who were they? 


Find out in: 
Look Out For The Manhole Cowr A History OfNotre Dame's Bookstore Basketball Toum..zment 
Available NOW 
in the Hammes 
Notre Dame Bookstore for $14.95 
50 pages of the BEST TEAM 
Names from 1972-1992! ':·over 50 photographs! ':·championship teams, award winners! ':·Fifteen years of the women's tournament! ':·useless Bookstore trivia! ':·And More! 
The report suggested that the University allocate more funds for the Notre Dame Encounter (NDE), which has proven to be a valuable factor in improving gender relations. 
"Expanding NDE had a very positive response and the Uni­versity is more than ready to recognize the proposals," said Thomas Magill, an ex-officio trustee. "But it is important to remember that there was no proposal in terms of time scale to put the recommendations increasing the amount of 24 hour space on campus, which received a positive reaction from trustees. The board was opposed to a recommendation to implement co-residential housing as a five-year. pilot project beginning in 1994-1995 in Siegfried Hall, Knott Hall, Pasquerilla West, Pasquerilla East or Grace Hall. 
"The trustees wanted to see more student support for the co-ed housing proposal, per­haps in the form of a campus 
Happy I9lll Birthday 

WJ:Prufficil®w 
@[?(])l!l~lli 
"May l.Z" 
Love, 
Mom, Dad 
f4Ryan 


Corner of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 
JORDAN 
FORD TOYOTA VOLVO 
MITSUBlSHl 
LINCOLN-MERCUR 
REGULAR HOURS MON., TUES., THURS. 8-9 

Wt:D,. FRI., SAT. 8-6 

•Increased 
marketing of fe­male athletics; 

•A 
push for gender equality in the coverage of athletics by both on-campus and ofT-campus media groups; 

•Expansion 
of University Health Services to include more gynecological care. 

•An 
extensive Health Services publicity campaign to inform students of the services they provide and the confidentiality of their care; 

•The 
construction of an ex­panded student union housing movie theaters, bowling alleys, and a sit-down restaurant on campus; 

•Opening 
the first floor of LaFortune 24 hours a day and increasing 24-hour space in dorms. 


The report on the future of 
undergraduate education, 
"Futures Invention," was pre­
sented in an attempt "to create 
a link between a desired future 
and a factual present in order . 
to find new ways to meet the 
challenge of improving under­
graduate education at the Uni­
versity," according to the re­
port. 
"The trustees were very re­
ceptive of our findings, espe­
cially the recommendations for 
improving teaching through 
increasing faculty size and 
establishing a center for teach­
ing," said Matthew Umhofer, 
committee chair. 
The report was the third on .undergraduate education in as 
many years. All three came to 
similar findings, according to 
Umhofer. 
"It established the continuity 
of students' concerns for un­
dergraduate education," he 
said. "It showed that regardless 
of the approach, we came up 
with the same report." 
Compiling the report involved 
two workshops in which stu­
dents described their perfect 
undergraduate education. It 
addresses components of an 
education, including classes, 
professors, graduate assistants, 
advising and the teacher-course 
evaluation system. 
According to the report, the future of undergraduate educa­tion should include: 
•Smaller 
classes as a way to facilitate interaction between faculty and students; 

•A 
larger number of interdis­ciplinary courses offered; 

•
Removal of the DART system and implementation of registration through the advis­ing system; 

•A 
greater number of profes­sors, and a greater incorpora­tion of research into teaching; 

•Improving 
teaching through the creation of a Center for Teaching; 

•A 
reduced role for graduate assistants in determining the grades of students and actual teaching; 

•A 
comprehensive advising system for each department; 

•The 
addition of mid­semester course evaluations. 


CONGRATULATIONS and BEST WISHES 
to the 


CLASS OF '93 
Office of Financial Aid 


page 10 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
Graduation breaks-up Sister Chain, but not bonds 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
After two years of musical sis­terhood, the women of Sister Chain, the campuses' first all­female band, are graduating and moving on to take different paths. After their final perfor­mance today at the Century Center, the campus band will branch out, although their friendships will last after grad­uation, according to band members. 
The members of Sister Chain have been together since they studied in Ireland their sopho­more year. Because of their mutual enthusiasm for per­forming music and the friend­ships they formed, they decided to channel their energies toward performing as a group, according to Meghan King, who sings and plays guitar. 
King and Kate Beck, who also performs vocals and guitar, were friends in high school, and after playing music together their freshman year at Saint Mary's, planned to form a band when King returned from Ireland her junior year. 
In Ireland, King and seniors Erin Hardin, Michelle Godwin, Erin Grefenstette, and Maureen Hicherson realized they all played together really well when they would play Irish folk music at church masses. When they returned their junior year, they joined with Beck to form Sister Chain. 
"We always just played for fun," King said. "It's all timing and luck and hard work. We've been so lucky. 
Since the group's start as a substitute for the opening act at the grand opening of Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse in the fall of 1991, they have per­formed at various functions at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, in addition to area clubs and bars, Beck said. This past spring their work led them to a third place award in Notre Dame's Nazz band festival. 
The wide exposure led them to hire Manager Mary Beth Barger and Publicity Director Bridget McCourt as managerial staff. 
"We've gone way farther 
IN THE ARM~ YOU'LL TAKE CHARCiE 
INMOREWAn 1 
THAN ONE. 
There's an added dimension to 
heing a nurse in the Army. You'll have 
increased health care responsibilities. 
And you'll enjoy the respect and pres­
tige that come naturally to people who 
serve as officers in the Army Nurse 
Corps. 
You'II be a respected member ofan exceptional health care team. Your opinion and counsel will be actively sought and listened to. And you'll have the opportunity to practice nurs­ing in a variety of environments, from high-tech military hospitals to MASH units, from flight lines to field hospi­tals, in the United States or overseas. 
Here are some of the reasons to consider becoming an Army Nurse: good pay and benefits, opportunities for continuing education in your chosen specialty, seniority that moves with you when you do, and job experi­ence you can't put a price tag on. 
Discover the Army Nurse Corps difference. Talk to an Arrriy Nurse Recruiter today. 
(219) 844.-3990 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 
than we ever thought," Beck said. "We've had so much help from friends. So many people have called us about doing ben­efits." 
Sister Chain's sound is differ­ent from the average campus band's heavy alternative twist, King said. Because they started in Ireland, they were influenced by the folk sound they encountered there. 
Their sound encompasses folk, country, alternative, tradi­tional Irish music and cover songs. In addition members write many of their own songs, although none of their work is copyrighted. 
"We have a different sound," she said. "It's a lot of traditional Irish music. (Our different tastes) all intertwine, but we all have our own tendencies," King said. 
This musical blending has taken place in their friendships, as well, according to Grefenstette, who sings and 


NANC: 
CoNqRATulATONs! 
WE'RE so 
pRoud of you. 
LovE, MoM, DAd, BETH 
& ToM 

Congratulations Roddy Boy! 
We're Bursting With Pride! Gad Bless You­We Lave You! 
Mom, Dad, Maura, 
Eileen, Katie, Gene,\ 
Larry and Glenn 

~--------------------------------~ 

1993! 
(R) 

appreciates you and will miss you We will especially miss our favorite '93 Domer Papa John's Own Rob Oesterle 
ulf you can handle Friday and Saturday Night Rushes, you can handle anything in the Navy. America, We Feel Safe!" 
plays percussion. The presence of the friendships in this all­female band on campus has brought a sense of unity to the campus. 
"We used to work as indi­viduals, now we work as a band," she said. "The Irish music has really affected me. It's given me the confidence to go out and play music." 
Beck said that because they are the first all-female band at Saint Mary's, they have brought a new tradition and identity to campus. 
Sister Chain has given me a sense of accomplishment," she said. "I thought that not enough people were taking a risk by trying something new. I never knew I could be a songwriter. I never wrote songs until Sister Chain:' 
Although the band has brought feelings of unity and friendship to campus, the bonds that brought the friends themselves together will last beyond graduation, although the band will no longer be to­gether, Beck said. 
"We have such a good chem­istry," Beck said. "I do realize we have to move on. We're go­ing to split off and do different things, but we may get back to­gether and record." 
King, an English major, hopes to continue with music after moving back to her home in Pittsburgh. 
"I don't think I could sur­vive if I weren't playing music," she said. 
Grefenstette and Beck plan to move to Ann Arbor, Mich. to look for work and to explore the city's music scene. 
Saying goodbye to their time together on campus will be 
Hard to believe it's graduation time already. 
Congratulations Brendan,
' "" we're proud of you. Good luck in Belize next year. 
Love, Mom, Dad, Tim & Lael 

•
Protected territory including Grape Road and Granger 

•
Excellent work environment and benefits 

•Salary 
plus commissions plus car loans 


To apply send resume to: Penny Saver Atten. Bruce Hecklinski P.O. Box 326 
South Bend, Indiana 46613 
hard because of the strong friendships they've formed and the good times they've had playing together, King said. 
"It's really hard because we all love what we do and we all love music," she said. "But we're friends first and we will get back together. When we do, we'll probably play." 
I ler friends in the band will be the hardest thing to leave at Saint Mary's, Beck said. 
"The five of us have become really good friends," she said. ''I'm ready to leave the school and the classroom and the campus, but not the friends I've made. When I'll look back on Saint Mary's, I'll think about Sister Chain." 

Friday, May 14, 1993 
The Observer 


Seniors help Broski 
CONGRATULATIONS GRADUATES! 
Good Luck in all your future endeavors ! Thanks for all you did over the years to help us fulfill our mission ! 
Support Services: MARTIN PULICO 
Mail Distribution Services: MATTHEW DAVIS ERIC ESCHINGER ANDREA LEBEIDZINSKI MICHAEL MORELLI ANDREA PIETRASZEWSKI MARK TERZOLA STACY WALDRON 
Maintenance: KEVIN BRISSON 
Best Wishes From All Of Us in FACILITIES OPERATIONS 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
The senior class is selling a lithograph of the Notre Dame Campus with all profits to go towards Todd Broski's medical bills, according to Joe Huston, senior class president. 
Broski was recently injured in a rugby game and is paralyzed below the waist. He is currently a patient in the Metro Rehabilitation Center in Cleve­land, Ohio. 
"It was the classes' idea to do something for Todd and we thought that this would be the best way to help out," said Hus­ton. The lithograph sale idea was also used by the class of 1990 as a fundraiser, said Huston. 
The watercolor was painted by fourth year architecture stu­dent David Colgan. 
1000 signed and numbered copies of the watercolor show­casing the Golden Dome, the Sacred Heart Basilica and a portion of Sorin College will be on sale at tonight's graduation dance and at the La Fortune Information Desk through the weekend for $10 each or by mail order. 
THE 
~
1yUE P 

-<to o~ Special Hours Open Sunday, May 16 for Graduation 
Make Reservations Now! Reservations Recommended 
219--255--1526 
Tues,Thurs Seating 5 p.m.' 9 p.m. Fri & Sat Seating 5 p.m.' 10 p.m. 100 Center • Mishawaka, IN Upper Level Old Brewery Bldg. 
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 
CoN<JRATulATioNs TO All of ouR NEw(y COMMissiONEd ENSiGNS ANd SECONd LiEUTENANTS. 
FAiRwiNds ANd FollowiNG SEAS. 

,f you have chest pain lastirvg two minutes or more, see adoctor. 
NROTC STAFF 

American Heart Association 
page 12 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
Irish studies Tolerance subject of Brokaw's address 
chair named By DAVID KINNEY citadel on the hill," he said. Crisis." Today show before becoming Editor-in-Chief Notre Dame selected Brokaw He won the Alfred duPont nightly news anchor. He began 
Special to The Observer 
Seamus Deane, professor of literature at University College in Dublin, has been named the first Donald and Marilyn Keough Chair in Irish Studies at Notre Dame. 
Deane, a member of the Hoyal Irish Academy and editor of the internationally acclaimed Field Day Anthology of Irish Writing, is widely considered the world's foremost scholar of Irish culture and literature. He was born in Derry, Northern Ireland, in 1940, and educated at Queen's University in Bell'ast and at Cambridge University. 
Deane "is a brilliant lecturer," according to Irish playwright Brian Friel. "When he hits his form his lectures are events, informative, creative, persua­sive, fascinating." 
"That an intelligence of such ardor should also be capable of poetry and fiction is not perhaps surprising," says Irish poet Seamus Heaney. "Seamus Deane's creative writing has the same vertical take-off energy that marks his other work." 
"The poetry is never lax-its intense emotional pressure is matched by a personal idiom that combines the intimate detail with a sidereal lexical ex­travagance." 
The Keough professorship was established at ND with a gift from Donald Keough, chairman emeritus of the University's board of trustees, and his wife, Marilyn. 
Tom Brokaw, NBC Nightly News anchor, said he will ad­dress the urgent need for tol­erance for others in American society during his speech at Notre Dame's 148th Com­
mencement Exercises Sunday. 
"I'm very concerned about how we're dividing ourselves up into single­unit groups," 

said the Tom Brokaw University of South Dakota graduate. 
Brokaw said Notre Dame's invitation was a great honor. Although he has no formal connections to the University, "it resonates in my childhood" in Webster, S.D., a strong Ho­man Catholic community. 
"For them, Notre Dame was a as principle speaker because of his unique position in the na­tional media, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations at Notre Dame. Past speakers include President Bush, Commonweal editor Margaret O'Brien Steinfels and entertainer Bill Cosby. 

He will also speak at com­mencement exercises at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology Saturday and at the University of Virginia­Charlottesville May 22. 
He has also received honorary degrees from Syracuse, Hofstra and Duke Universities, Washington University in St. Louis, and Boston, Emerson and Simpson Colleges. 
Brokaw and "Nightly News" won an Emmy for outstanding coverage of the Romanian revo­lution, and he won an Emmy for the NBC News special "China in 
BRIAN FOUGHT 
Mom, Dad and Mindy congratulate Brian on his Graduation Day! 
May his working days begin! 
Award for conducting the first one-on-one interview with Mikhail Gorbachev, and was the only American news anchor on the scene when the Berlin Wall fell. He was the first to report on human rights abuses in Tibet, including an interview with the Dalai Lama. 
Brokaw joined NBC in 1966, reporting from California, serv­ing as anchor on KNBC in Los Angeles and later hosting NBC's his career at KMTV in Omaha, Neb., in 1962, then served as the late evening news anchor on WBS-TV in Atlanta. 
NBC News' White House cor­respondent during the Water­gate era, Brokaw has reported on every presidential election since 1968. lie was an NBC floor reporter for the 1976 and 1980 national political conven­tions, and since then has an­chored NBC's election coverage. 


Congratulations Si(y)pes! 


Fnday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Senior profiles "/ want people to be involved in trying to make things on-campus better for themselves. "-KAREN FORDHAM 
Binda strives to live life of service Fordham worked to 
improve campus living
By MEREDITH week internship at the Center "community building." for the Homeless, where she She has begun to concentrate
MCCULLOUGH 
was under the guidance of Lou on conflict resolution situations, 
News Ed1tor 
Nanni, director of the Center. and looks forward to a career in "It was the most rewarding which she can interact with
For Notre Dame senior 
experience I had at Notre different groups as a sort of li­Kirsten Binda, social service Dame," said Binda. aison to help find common
has not been simply an ex­
According to Binda, it was at ground between conflicting in­
tracurricular activity-it has 
the Center for the Homeless terests.
been an integral part of learn­that she learned the to look be­As of yet, her plans following ing itself. 
yond the term "homeless," to graduation have not material­A psychology major with a the people affected by home­ized, but Binda has not lostconcentration in peace studies, 
lessness "Seeing this first hope.
Binda strives to make service 
hand," she said, "was more "I don't take the fact that I
part of her "daily routine." 
effective than taking a class." don't yet have a job as a reflec­"People should see volunteer­Binda's experiences at the tion of my worth. All the placesing not as an obligation, but as Center combined with a Sum­I applied are not for profit," she a responsibility," she said "It 
mer Service project, tutoring said.
must be incorporated mto your programs, and involvement ''I'm waiting for grants," shelife, not separate from it " 
with the Peace Institute, has added laughing."That's theThis past semester, Binda 
peaked her interest in story of my life." 
completed an 10 to 15 hour a 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE 1993 GRADUATES 
From the College of Science Faculty and Staff 

ND THANKS YOU: 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH Sa1nt Mary's Ed1tor 

When Karen Fordham began her education at Saint Mary's four years ago the campus was quite different. Parietals did not begin until 4 p.m. on week­days, males were required to leave picture identification be­fore entering a residence hall and students were required to work the parietals desk for an hour on weekends. 
Now through the efforts of Fordham and her work on the Residence Hall Association (RHA) things are very different. 
Involved since its conception on campus at the beginning of the 1991-92 academic year, Fordham has worked exten­sively on parietal reform efforts at the College. 
She has served as RHA pres­ident, vice president, fundrais­ing chairwoman, parietals chairwoman and as the student representative for Le Mans Hall. During her time with RHA she has successfully worked to change parietal hours, eliminate the students workers at parietals desks and most recently to end the requirement on a trial basis that male guests must leave IDs at the front desks. 
She and RHA have also worked to improve little siblings weekend and coordinated the residence involvement in the all campus event. They have also worked to revise the campus' smoking policy and have begun work on a cable in the residence halls proposal that will be continued by next year's RHA. 
"I hope that I've helped make Saint Mary's campus a better place to live," Fordham said 
In addition to her work with RHA, the Management and In­ternational Business major, has been involved with the Board of Governance and was a member of the McCandless Hall Council 
She hopes that students at Saint Mary's will remember not only her efforts to improve on­campus living, but also her efforts to get others involved in their community. 
"I hope people will remember that I tried to get people moti­vated and that I tried to get others involved," Fordham said. "I wanted people to be mvolved in trying to make things on­campus better for themselves." 
After a summer vacation, Fordham plans to search for a job in manufacturing. 

Freshmen Orientation, August, ,1989 
for FOUR YEARS! STILL FRIENDS! SHOCKING! CONGRATULATIONS to "Spitz & Schumes" Class of 1993 
OF AMERICA CONGRATULATE YOUR SPECIAL GRADUATE! Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend OPEN 7 DAYS 1169 Scottsdale Mall 1404 N. Ironwood Dr. Lower Level South Bend, IN 46635 South Bend, IN 46612 (219) 288..3995(219) 291..6745 M,f 7:30,9M,f 10,9 SAT 10,9 SAT 8,8 SUN 12,5 SUN 10,5 Prompt City Wide Delivery All Major Credit Cards  


-------~---..
-~---~----------·------­
page 14 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
Senior profiles "Through what I have been involved in and the people I have met, it (ND) has changed all my priorities." -MIKE GRIFFIN 
Griffin: A Notre Dame education is all about service 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
After four years of a Notre Dame education, senior Mike Griffin says he realizes that ed­ucation should be about service. 
"Notre Dame has been a total shift in my life," said the pro­gram of liberal studies and government major. "Through what I have been involved in and the people that I have met, it has changed all my priori­ties." 
"The biggest change is the 
Sule socially concerned 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 
Social issues and social con­cerns have been the focus of Kerstin Sule's time and energy during her four years at Saint Mary's. 
Sule, a senior political science/philosophy major and women's studies minor, has been involved in vast activities while at Saint Mary's. She hopes they have not only bene­fited her, but the community as well. 
"I've really enjoyed my classes at Saint Mary's," Sule said. "I've enjoyed the stu­dents, the faculty and staff. I enjoy any opportunity we've had to get together." 
Through her work on various projects, Sule has tried to bring together groups of students, professors and administrators to enhance all facets of the in­tellectual and social life on campus. She said that all of these groups have so much to offer and learn from one an­other. 
Sule has attempted to foster these relationships through her membership on the Student Academic Council. the Popular Culture Group and the recy­cling effort on campus. She was also integral in forming discussion groups about the Gulf War and bringing lectures to campus concerning war. In addition she took part in the Urban Plunge in Pittsburgh, Pa. and worked with the St. Joseph County Literary Council in a literacy program in the area. 
Sule said that while she was not involved in Student Gov­ernment or other activities that people normally attribute to campus leaders. she hopes that she has left her mark as a leader on the campus. 
"I hope that people remem­ber me for my abilities to de­fend my beliefs and to com­municate them effectively," Sule said. 
In the classroom and outside of the classroom Sule has co­ordinated efforts between her classmates, faculty and staff in an attempt to bring about communication and debate in the hopes that they to will learn to be confident in their beliefs as well. 
Following her graduation to­morrow, Sule will return to Pittsburgh where she hopes to become involved in teaching or in development for a school system. In the next few years, she hopes to return to graduate school where she will study ed­ucation and education policy. 
way that I look at education," he added. 
Griffin has been involved in many campus activities through student government as 1992­1993 chief of staff and through the dorms as 1991-1992 Morrissey vice-president. 
As chief of staff, Griffin over­saw student government commissions, including com­missions of special projects, student life, social concerns, and reports to the Board of Trustees. 
He was also involved with the ND for the Homeless Week. "It was basically a lot of interaction between Notre Dame and the center," he said. "We had staff members and guests of the center sleep in the dorms and a sleep out with the center, also." 
Griffin said serving in Mor­rissey was his most enjoyable work outside of student gov­ernment. "It was great to work with people who are your good friends," he said. 
Griffin won two awards rec­ognizing his service to the Uni­versity and outside community: 
1!' RO-SS UNIVERSITY 1; l 
1

l -:r _______ _ f~N!lNc_IA~_J!I~_!!_VAII.AB~~------__j SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
+ 
American Mad School Curriculum 

+ 
Complete Your Education In 37 Months 

+ 
Guaranteed Clinical Rotations in US Hospitals 


VETERINARY MEDICINE 
+ 
American Veterinary School Curriculum 

+ 
Usted In AVMA Directory. +We are Affiliated with US Veterinary Schools For Clinical Clerkshlps. 

+ 
Complete Your Education In 3 Years 


Approx 2,000 Roa Gflld1 currently In Rlllldencl-. or Pr/rste PtaCtlc. In TIHI U.S.A. Accepting App//Cit/0111 for both Schools forJuly & Nov 1993/Jsn & Aprl/1994 Semesters 
~ss 'Universit}tc 460West34thStreet
New York, N.Y. 10001 
International Education Admissions, nc 212-279-ssbo 
$10 
l }. 
~ ·... ' 

the Irish Clover Award, which is presented by the student senate on behalf of the student body for outstanding service to the student body, and the John Gardner Award, which is presented by the University for leadership and service to the community beyond Notre Dame. 
In the fall, Griffin will begin a one year internship with the National Conference of Catholic Bishops/United States Catholic Conference in Washington. D.C. He will be working in the department of education con­ducting legislative research. 
But he is unsure of his future plans after that. "I think I want to go into public service some­how, but I don't know if I want to go into politics," he said, adding that graduate school might be a possibility for him. 
Happy irt day Bryan 
5-14-93 and 
Congratulations on your Graduation! 
5-16-93 
We're very proud of you! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Kevin 
&Amy 
$10 

Ull,.ss uf 1993 
lluitu~nil!! ,,f N,,Jrr Il:unr 
This watercolor lithograph, by senior David Colgan, captures the Dome, Sacred Heart, and Sorin Hall from a view near Badin Hall. Printed on high quality, low acid paper, this excellent watercolor will be something to cherish for many years to come. 
Available at the LaFortune Information Desk 
PROCEEDS GO TO THE FAMILY OF CLASSMATE TODD BROSKI 
------~----------------~----­
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 27 

·-------~-----~--~------­
----··------------------------------------------~ 
page 28 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
NCAA LACROSSE • 
-----.. -------CHAMPIONSHIP-------.. ----­
• 

Irish lacrosse opens tournament against Cavaliers 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The return of the Notre Dame lacrosse team and reunion of Irish coach Kevin Corrigan and his former school are the head­lines following the Irish as they travel to the University of Vir­ginia for Saturday's opening round of the NCAA Tourna­ment. 
The Irish are ranked 15th with a 11-2 record and a No. 12 in the tournament. The Cava-

The Observer/Sean Faman Billy Ahmuty is one of a group of talented midfielders who lead the Irish against the Cavaliers. 
liers carry a 9-4 mark and a No. 5 seed and ranking. 
Notre Dame has established itself as the class of midwestern lacrosse and has also estab­lished itself as a national con­tender after earning its second consecutive midwestern bid and third in the last four years. 
"The Midwest bid to the tour­nament has definitely done what it was supposed to do--spread the interest of lacrosse across the country," said Willie Scriggs, chair of the NCAA men's Lacrosse Committee. "Based on its play this year, Notre Dame very well may have been in contention for one of the at-large bids. Their level of play is certainly equal to the other five or six teams in consideration for those bids." 
Last season the Irish fell to Johns Hopkins 15-7, and in their only other NCAA appear­ance in 1990 Harvard bested the Irish 9-3. 
The game marks the return of Corrigan to the school where he played midfielder for three seasons and served as an assis­tant coach from 1987-1988. Corrigan was also considered for the Virginia head coaching position when it became avail­able last year. 
Dom Starsia was chosen to head the Virginia program and in his first year he has main­tained the long tradition of suc­cess associated with Cavalier lacrosse. Virginia has made the NCAA field 17 times, winning the title in 1972 and reaching the semifinals eight other times. 
"Being a No. 5 seed is very exciting for us," commented Starsia. "Everyone agreed that the top four seeds were pretty set. After not making the tour­nament last year, it is very ex­citing to earn such a high seed this year." 
The Cavaliers 9-4 record is respectable, considering it in­cludes wins over Duke, North Carolina, and Maryland. But the most important record for the Irish is the 8-0 mark the Cavaliers have posted at home this season. 
"If we're going to do anything in the tournament we are going to have to learn to win on the road, but it helps having the first game at home," said Star­sia. 
Notre Dame is 5-1 on the road this season, with the only loss coming April 9 at the hands of Duke,· one of three shared opponents between the Cavaliers and the Irish. Notre Dame's 13-7 loss to Duke is countered by a 14-10 win by Virginia over the Blue Devils. Both teams beat University of Maryland-Baltimore County, 16­4 by the Irish and 15-9 by the Cavaliers. Their only other common opponent was Hofstra, a 9-8 loser to Notre Dame but a 7-·6 winner against Virginia. 
"Three weeks ago I sent one of my assistants down to see Notre Dame play Duke, so we got a first hand look at what they can do," said Starsia. "They are a very young team, but beat a Hofstra team which beat us. It is going to be a tough game." 
The Cavaliers are led by se­nior attackman Kevin Pehlke with 53 points including 30 goals. He is joined by six other Virginia players scoring in double figures, the most prominent being freshman at­tacker Tim Whitely with 28 points, featuring 12 goals. 
Notre Dame relies heavily on the skills of junior attacker Randy Colley who leads the team with 45 goals and 66 points. Rob Snyder is second on the team with 30 goals and 41 points. 
"In a game like this, if we can keep a check on this kid Colley and play hard and well for 60 minutes I think we should have a good chance," Starsia said. 
The defense has been the strong point for both squads. Virginia boasts the skills of ju­nior goalie James Ireland with a .710 save percentage. As a team they have allowed 8.6 goals per game. Ryan Jewell is set in goal after splitting time earlier in the year with senior Chris Parent. The sophomore has a .608 save percentage and has led Notre Dame to only a 
7.1 goals against average. 
Aiding Notre Dame is the fact that Virginia is in the middle of exams and has had difficulty scheduling practices. The Irish finished exams last weekend have had the benefit of an open slate. 


CONGRATULATIONS FISCHER, O'HARA-GRACE GRADUATES (Ph.D.s, Masters, J.D.s, MBAs) 
From, FR. JENKY, SR. TRISH 
..... 
AND THE REST OF THE FOG STAFF 
\ 
t 
\. 


Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer 
page 29 

NCAA LACROSSE • 
-----.. -------CHAMPIONSHIP-------.. ----­
• 

fuet~M~m~in~K~ori~ng~·===~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 
~ Graduating ~r CAREER -,J The Seniors ~ ~ OPPORTUNITY Observer 
~David Appel, Charles Ara(Son, Laura Butl"ftan, ~ ~ Jeff Cabotaje, Diana Cespedes, "ll'-
wishes ~ John DaCosta. Christian Darlin(Ston, ~ 
~ 'll'­
~ Eric Eschin(Ser. John Flana(San. "lt-graduating "lt'-Amy Hallenbeck, Deborah Johnson, 'll'­~ Jason Kaull, Erin Kenny, Amber Loyd, "lt-Seniors "lt'-Juan Martinez, Darcy Mehlin(S, Joe Reichert 'll'­Call PennySaver Editor 
~ Jaime Ruiz, Christine Strick, Lisa Tako, "lt­
Marcia Steffens 





Good 

"lt'-A(Snes Taylor, Pat Thomas. Yolanda Turner, "ll'­(219) 282-4457 
""" Geofrilyn Walker. and Kathleen Zie(Sler """" 2102 South Michigan St. 

Luck!

South Bend, IN 46613 
~ GOOD LUCK! ~ 
"""" """ 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~---~-~;~~-;;-·;·;~~-;~;-~;;;;;;~~~~~~~~=~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~· ~~ 7D~D~~ry 
lb~OJ Roses Flowers 
"Just tO be is a blessing, ~~.!:! Ballo~~lr&FruitB~~~~ J•ust to live is holy.,, ClocktowerSquare (219)277 ... 1291 -t?>,et c:, 
51400 31 North 0 t.._~"( South Bend, IN 46637 1, ?>,~~
Abraham Heschel ~
Men.tion This Ad and Receive 10% off Not good for Valentine's Day 
Diane Abbey Amy Hallenbeck Kathleen Meaney Filipinas Aquino Amy Hardgrove Angela Pearson 
CONGRATULATIONS TO
Kathryn Albertini Jahnelle Harrigan Ellen Pertraitis Kirsten Binda Karen Harris Laura Pfouts DETACHMENT 225's Frances Biolchini Jennifer Kadlec Christina Prask 
NEWEST LIEUTENANTS! 
Kelley Campanaro Christine Kavanaugh Heather Rakoczy Bridget Carroll Karen Kenney Sara Remick 
AIM HIGH 
Elaine Cassidy Christina Kerger Marta Roemer Gerald R. Andersen William M. Jones Peggy Crooks Kelly King Jennifer Schuster Dennis D. Berry Michael L. Keltos Susan de Mink Susan Kurowski Laurie Sessa 
Casey M. Brown Karen P. Kenney Tyelise Dorsey Joleen Littig Margaret Smith 
Richard J. Campbell Edward L. Mazuchowski 
Julianne Feck Suzanne Lochner Robin Stumpf 
Ellen Cierzniak Erin M. Monson 
Sarah Fitzpatrick Melissa Lucke Kristin TePas 
Darrell J. Clark Kenneth P. Novak
Tara Gentile Kathy McDonough Ann Verkamp 
Marc A. Dauteuil Leslie C. Palmer 
Gabriela Gonzalez Alison McGarry Elizabeth Vida 
Thompson M. Faller Elena M. Quirk
Ann Marie Gravo Mary McNeil Diane Wong Dennis M. Feerick Peter A. Sanchez Matthew J. Garberina Jason R. Schrader MAY YOU BE BLESSED. Bernard P. Hund Jeffrey A. Simerville Douglas D. Janicik Kerri L. Sterling 
Congratulations to all. 
From the Women of Lyons Hall 
•wm 
Mar. 6  at Hofstra  Apr.9  Duke  
Mar. 9  Mt. St. Mary's W, 15-11  Apr. 15  AIR FORCE  W, 12-9  
, Mar. 13 New Hamp.  W, 17-7  Apr. 17  OHIO-WES.  L, 8-13  
lMar. 20 UMBC  W, 16-4  Apr. 24  Ohio State  W, 11-7  
W, 15-14  ·May 1  Mich.State  W, 13-11  
W, 22-11  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 


: Congratulations : '"·-~'&'"''m'" 
~ ~ Robbie Snyder ranks second on 
~ ~The Huddle's 
LACROSSE CHAMPIONSHIPS 

~--------­
~., '.
t. r ' r 

The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993
page 30 
-----··______NCAAMEN'STENNIS------··----­
CHAMPIONSHIP 
Notre Dame heads to third straight NCAA Championship 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team looks to equal its per­formance of years' past as it heads to its third straight NCAA Championships in Athens, Ga. 
Last season Dave DiLucia, ranked No. 1 in the nation, led the Irish on a miracle finish highlighted by a trip to the NCAA finals and an eventual runner-up finish to Stanford. 
DiLucia is gone, but a new cast has emerged bringing Notre Dame into the tourna­ment with a No. 10 seed and national ranking as they begin second round play against Mis­sissippi State Saturday. Both teams received first round byes. The Bulldogs carry a 19-6 mark and a No. 5 ranking. 
The two team should be fa­miliar with one another as they have met three times in the past three seasons, including the opening round of last season's NCAA's, a 5-3 win by the Irish. 
Earlier this season Notre Dame edged Mississippi State 5­2 in the Blue-Gray National Classic. Although they fell in doubles, five of six singles wins propelled the Irish to the win. Senior Will Forsyth led the charge, beating Dan Courcol the nation's top-ranked player at the time. 
Forsyth's feat is even more impressive considering that Courcol was the most dominant player in collegiate tennis dur­ing the first part of the season. Courcol won both the ITA Na­tional Clay Court and the Volvo Tennis/Collegiate Champi­onships, the first two legs of the ITA Collegiate Grand Slam. 
Chuck Coleman, Ron Rosas, and Mark Schmidt also posted wins earlier this year against the Bulldogs and will be looked to repeat their performance. Todd Wilson and Micheal Sprouse will round out the sin­gles participants for the Irish. 
Courcol (No. 3) and teammate Per Nilsson (No. 69) are the only Bulldogs ranked in the top-100 in. the latest ITA Intercollegiate Rankings. Forsyth heads three Irish players ranked at the No. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Mark Schmidt had won his last thirteen singles matches heading into 
16 slot. Coleman (No. 49) and Schmidt (No. 62) round out the Notre Dame players ranked. 
In team doubles competition Mississippi State is led by the team of Courcol and fellow Frenchman, sophomore Lau­rent Miquelard. The duo is ranked second in the country behind the Georgia doubles team of Bobby Mariencheck and Wade McGuire. Notre Dame will counter with Forsyth and Coleman who carry a No. 14 ranking. 
The difficult schedule Notre Dame played during the regular season should begin to pay dividends, as the team has faced the majority of teams it will face in Athens. Along with Mississippi State, the Irish have faced No. 1 USC, No. 3 Georgia, No. 6 LSU. No. 8 Alabama, No. 9 Tennessee. and No. 11 Pep­perdine. Notre Dame also played Texas. Florida, North Carolina, Kentucky, Minnesota. San Diego and New Mexico all of which are ranked in the top­
25. All but three are members of the 20-team field participat­ing in the NCAA's. 
Following the team competi­
tion, Notre Dame will be well represented in the individual competition. Forsyth will try his hand in singles and will team with Coleman in the doubles. Coleman is loaded with experi­ence in NCAA doubles competi­tion after playing with DiLucia for the past two years. Forsyth teamed with Andy Zurcher in the 1991 doubles competition. 
The winner of Saturday's match will likely face top­seeded USC. The Trojans faced Notre Dame in the semifinals a year ago as the top seed, but fell 5-1. 


Best Wishes to Graduating Student..Athletes From the Office of Academic Services for Student..Athletes 
Baseball Eric Danapilis Ed Hartwell David Sinnes Alan Walania 
Men's Basketball Matt Adamson Women's Basketball Majenica Rupe 
Cheerleaders Jennifer Finn Angela Jones Mary Malone Tyler Moore Darin Prado Ryan Roberts Darin Sipe Dan Wagner Taeseok Yoo 
Men's Fencing Bernard Baez Per Johnsson Richard Kurz Geoffrey Pechinsky Jeff Piper Brian Ray James Taliaferro 
Women's Fencing Kathleen Vogt 
Football Edward (Jr.) Bryant James Guerrera Justin Hall Jordie Halter Craig Hentrich Adrian Jarrell Lance Johnson Matt Johnson Matt Lahey Karl McGill William Pollard Brian Ratigan lrv Smith Nick Smith 
Men's Golf Chris Dayton Joe Dennen 
Women's Golf Kathleen Phares 
Hockey Sterling Black Eric Gregoire Curtis Janicke Dan Marvin Carl Picconatto Daniel Sawyer 

Lacrosse Tom Carroll Patrick Finn Edward Lamb Charles Lonsdal Thomas O'Brien Christopher Parent Vito Perriello Peter Senger 
Softball Staci Alford Veronica Alvarez Deborah Boulac Heather McMurray Lisa Miller Sheri Quinn 
Men's Soccer Brendan Dillmann Mario Tricoci 
Women's Soccer Denise Chabot Margaret J arc 

the NCAA Championships. 
IT'S 
12NOON. 
TIME FOR 
ANOTHER 
LIFE OR DEATH 


DECISION. 

\o\ h~n you mak<" d habit of c"n!HlSinl( hlgh-rhoJesterol 
Ioods. you·re chO<•sing a dant.:erous l.'tl\lf'lt!. One lh~l 

.... ,-ould lt'ad to a !ugh ,:holes· tcrol It-vel in y<Jur bloud and ,,,.,ttuallr to a heart <ttlack. Rememb~r that the next Uml' ~~~ll brow~t' through ~ "''""L :\nd plan~ your C>rder 
as thnugh your wry life dt'Jlt'nded on 1t. 
&!aAmerican HeartV Association w:fCFi('-.HTI~ FCR '!('\JRUFE 
Men's Swimming Ed Broderick Colin Cooley Gregory Cornick John Godfrey Thomas Whowell 
Women's Swimming Susan Bohdan Kristin Broderick Jennifer Stumm Tanya Williams 
Men's Tennis Chuck Coleman Will Forsyth Ronald Rosas Mark Schmidt Christopher Wojtalik James (Andy) Zurcher 
Women's Tennis Eniko Bende 
Men's Track James Burke John Coyle Ed Lavelle Nicholas Radkewich Stuart Tyner 
Women's Track Tylise Dorsey Lisa Gorski Karen Harris Tricia Joseph 
Volleyball Andrea Armento Marilyn Cragin Cynthia May Alicia Turner 



CONGRATULATIONS MORRISSEY SENIORS! 
Tavares Williams Azikiwe Chandler Matthew leyser Dennis Feerick Edward Wetzel Patrick Brennan Divid Neville Christopher Rey Robert Gephart Montoya Clemmons Keith Nicholson Eugene Christopher Todd Rice Matthew Cenedella Patrick Smyth David lopez Thomas Looby Matthew Johnson Warren Shea Mario Borelli Charles lonsdale Robert Quintos John Donlan Thomas Fogarty Stephen Macmanus Gregory Knapp Carl Christensen Atandji Gabiam William Hall Richard Sacher 
---~----~-------~·~~
-·----­

page 15 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
Senior profiles "This continual struggle to balance academics and culture made me stronger as a person."-YOLANDA KNIGHT 
Knight: ND experience a social and cultural struggle 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
Unlike the response that many of her peers will render when asked to sum up their "Notre Dame Experience," Yolanda Knight describes hers as a struggle-not academi­cally-but culturally and so­cially. 
"It was a struggle for cultural affirmation through isolated events that I experienced at Notre Dame," said Knight, who is an African American and a psychology/african american studies major. "But this contin­ual struggle to balance aca­demics and culture made me stronger as a person." 
"When I came to Notre Dame, there were a lot of things about my history that I did not know, and I learned them here, although Notre Dame did not specifically help me," she said. "Knowledge of your history makes you work for a change, which is what I have tried to do during my time here." 
Knight has been involved with the African American Student Allaince (previously the Black Cultural Arts Council) since her freshman year, including serving as the Allaince's vice­president and president during her junior and senior years, and was a co-founder of Habari Gani, the African American student newsletter. She was also active in the Students United for Respect (SUFR) sit­in in the administration· building during her sophomore year and was a member of the task force on cultural diversity. 
"My opinion of the University does not include hate for it, rather a sense of betrayal," she said. "I feel that they elicit a lot of hypocritical rhetoric regard­ing their intent to become cul­turally diverse. 
Knight spent the spring semester in an exchange pro­gram at the predominantly African American Clark Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia. 
"I was fed up with Notre Dame," she said. "It had gotten to the point where I needed a different experience and it was one that I really enjoyed." 
"My experience at Clark At­lanta was great, especially when combined with my expe­rience at ND," she said. 
Knight cites Ken Durgans, ex­director of minoritry affairs, and the African American Studies Program as the most instrumental forces in her de­velopment at Notre Dame. 
"They both have contrubuted to my growth at Notre Dame quite a bit," she said. "But, like most areas in the school, it {the African American Studies Pro­gram) still needs to be devel­oped." 
Nest year Knight will partici­pate in a rotating internship at the Providence Saint Mel High School in Chicago as a teacher, councelor, and researcher. She plans on a career in education, but is unsure if she will work as an administrator or teacher. 
"I will be doing different things in the internship, includ­ing working under a principle," she said. "This way I can get a feel for what I want to do." 

For Young, college has been an experiment with diverse activities 
and varied, but she said that this, along with the classroom experience, has taught her a lot about life. 
"You experiment with a little of everything in college," Young said. "You make a lot of mistakes and you learn from all of them-that's what college is all about." 
While at Saint Mary's, Young was involved in the start up of the Avenue, a campus magazine that serves as a forum for opinion, literature, art work and poetry. She has served as the editor-in-chief of the Avenue, the co-editor-in-chief of Chimes, the campus literary magazine, and president of the English club. Young was also involved with Student Gov­ernment for three years, was a representative for the English department on the Student Academic Council and served on the Board of Regents Devel­opment Committee. 
Through all of her involve­ment she hopes that she has provided a forum for Saint Mary's students to voice their opinion as she has. 
"I hope in some ways I have provided a voice, especially through the Avenue, for allow­ing students to voice their opin­ion," Young said. 
Besides her involvement in with campus publications and student government Young was a member of the Women's 
Welcome Parents and Friends! 





Congratulations to the Class of /931 
From the Varsity Shop Located in the JACC 
Hours: 
FridayI May 14 SaturdayI May 15 Monday, May 17 
11:30-5:30 10:00-4:00 10:00-5:30 
Alliance, Collegiate Choir and a member of SMC Real Groovy Women, which organized lec­tures and discussions that fo­cused on identity, cultural ac­ceptance, sisterhood and self­acceptance. Young, a women's studies and U.S. history minor, was also involved in the coordi­nation of a pro-choice group to defend the Women's Pavillion during this spring's Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL) protests. 
"My parents have always taught me to speak up because no one is going to read my mind," Young said. 
It is for this quality that she hopes people will remember her most. 
"I hope they will say she al­ways stood up for what she be­lieved in and always meant what she said," she added. 
In addition to her campus in­volvement, Young has also ex­celled within the classroom. She was awarded the SISTAR grant last year to study women poets of the 18th century. Most recently she was awarded the Sister M. Franzita Kane Writing Award, the Women's Studies Prize, the English Prize and the Laurie A. Lesniewski Award for Creative Writing at the College's annual honors convocation. 
What she has learned at Saint 
Mary's has exceeded her ex­
pectations, she said. 
"I've learned a lot at this school, a lot more than I thought I'd learn at a cornfield college," Young said. 
While Young hopes that she 
has provided a forum for dis­
cussion, she does not think that 
all is perfect at Saint Mary's. 
She cites that lack of accep­
tance of gays and lesbians on 
both campuses as one group 
that is still unnecessarily hurt 
"in a community where we 
preach acceptance and Chris­
tian beliefs." 
Next year Young plans to at­
tend graduate school at Notre 
Dame to pursue her masters in 
English with a focus on 18th 
century literature. She hopes to 
eventually complete her doc­
torate in the field. 
While Young does not plan to 
end her involvement in activi­
ties next year, she does plan on 
devoting less time to them and 
more time on academics. 
"Right now it's 50/50 in the 

time I spend studying and with 
my activities," Young said. "I 
would like to increase the time I 
spend with my studies to at 
least 7 5 percent." 
·---------~--­
page 16 The Obsetver Friday, May 14, 1993 
Four student-faculty teams receive SISTAR awards 
Special to the Observer 
Four student-faculty teams have been chosen for this year's Student Independent Study and Research (SISTAR) Awards at Saint Mary's. 
The SISTAR program, sup­ported by a grant from the Mi­ami-based Knight Foundation, is now in its third year at Saint Mary's and awards stipends to students and faculty for collab­orative summer research pro­jects. Each selected student re­ceives $3,000, while faculty 
Saint Mary's students and 
faculty honored by awards ·:.'.,.:;·,:.:~.= ~ :;.:,,·~. ,t,\tf{ij,
;·(.. :·.·,;:;':,:···';.:_:··'·.·:··::... ........ ...
... .... ...:i.·.':;:·.:,!=,.:·.i·_.':::_ 

. ::::::::::::·i~iil'ii::,,, '.:·:.:::;·' ::.:} 
Special to the Observer 
Awards for Saint Mary's fac­ulty and students were an­nounced at the College's annual honors convocation, Sunday, May 2. 
Anne Loux, associate profes­sor of English, was presented with the Spes Unica Award for excellence in teaching and dedicated service to the College over an extended period of time. 
Joanne Snow, associate pro­fessor of mathematics, received the Maria Peita Award for ex­cellence in teaching freshman­and sophomore-level courses. Snow, who joined the faculty at Saint Mary's in 1983, teaches courses in calculus and analy­sis. 
Melissa Whelan. a junior from Gaithersburg, Md., was awarded the Saint Catherine Medal. presented each year to an underclassman demonstrat­ing high standards of personal excellence, outstanding schol­arship and a strong commit­ment to Christian ideals. 
College-wide awards, pre­sented to students, included: 
•Sister 
M. Franzita Kane Writing Awards-Kristi Caudle, Escondido, Calif., Amy Schulz, Winston-Salem, N.C. and Renee Young. Mundelein, Ill. 

•Dorothy 
Manier Writing Awards-Genevieve Barba, Wi­chita, Kan. and Jan Jenkins, South Bend. 

•Helen 
Carroll Award in Re­ligous Studies-Libby Gray, South Bend. 

•Sister 
Annice Donovan Prize for Philosophical Writing-He­len McGuire, Dunwoody, Ga. 

•Women's 
Studies Prize-Renee Young. 

•Art-St. 
Luke's Award, Frances McMahon, Crown Point, Ind. and Sister Edna Service Award, Susan Wyffels, Geneseo, Ill. 

•Biology-Mother 
Rose Eliza­beth Award, Nicole Brunette, Granger, Ind., Geoege and Juanda Bick Nature Award, Gretchen Bath. Green Bay, Wis. and Elizabeth Vogel, Red Wing, Minn. 

•Business 
administration and economics-Wall Street Journal and Academic Achievement awards, Dawnella Rose, Cadiz, Ohio; Frank A. Yeandel Service Award, Kimberly Simons, Youngstown, Ohio; Accounting Award, Terri Ames, Reston, Va.; Economics Award, Cheryl Fortunak, North Liberty, Ind.; Finance Award, Jennifer Ray, St. Clair, Mich.; International Business Award, Kristina Perry, Warsaw, Ind.; Management Award, Julie Jedlinski, Wood Dale, Ill. and Marketing Award, Sandra Conner, Sun Prairie, Wis. 

•Communication, 
dance and the a tre-Co m m un ic a tion Award, Karen Melchert, Bartlett, Ill. and Dina Selman, Merrillville, Ind.; Excellence in 


members are awarded $5,000 Romantic Roots of a Woman­each. The program is designed Centered Art Pedagogy," while to provide students with an ap­Haigwood will explore "The preciation for academic re­Romantic Link Between Femi­search outside the traditional nine and Feminist: Gender and scientific areas in the hopes of Ideology in Wordsworth and promoting careers in teaching Coleridge's 'Lyrical Ballads."' and research. 
This year's winners and their •Marcie Thorson, a junior respective projects are: from Morris, Ill., and Zae Munn, assistant professor of music. 
•Catherine Adams, a junior The pair will collaborate on from Louisville, Ky. and Laura "Composing Two Large-Scale Haigwood, assistant professor Works: From Creative of English. Adams' project is Inception to Public Access." entitled "Eliza Allen Starr: The 

Theatre Award, Keri Latherow, Freedom, Pa. 
EDUCATIONAL MEDIA


~}~~~;;~~~~~[~Jgi. 41~· f
Education, Julie Beem, Waklerton, Ind. 
Wishes Our '93 Seniors 
• 
English-English Prize and Laurie A. Lesniewski Award for Creative Writing, Renee Young. 

•History-Martha 
Mont­gomery Schurz Memorial Award, Patrice Starr, Hudson, Ohio, Stephanie Thullen, Seoul, Korea and Julie Vaccarella, Fairfield, Conn.; Blecka-Zatko Essay Award, Cheryl Fortunak. 


•Humanistic Studies-Thomas More Award, Mary Nitsch. Baltimore. 
•
Mathematics-Milko J eglic Award for Achievement in Mathematics, Mary Pat Sulli­van, Valparaiso, Ind. 

•Modern 
lanaguages-French Award, Beatriz Castillo, Cuernavaca, Mexico, Kristina Neville, Sterling Ill. and Anne­Marie Schommer, Wauconda, Ill.; Spanish Award, Delia Gar­cia, Gary, Ind. and Julie Marsh, Naperville, Ill. 

•Nursing-Evelyn 
McGuiness Award for Excellence in Nurs­ing, Rebecca Sanchez, Chester­ton, Ind.; Humanitarian Award, Lucy Haske, Omaha, Neb.; Nightingale Society Honors Membership Award, Catherine Funston, Columbus, Ohio. 


David Appel Joe Ashby Mike Bartley Pete Bevacqua Brendan Blockowicz Casey Brown Ryan Brown Chris Bruno Jon Capacci Matt Casey Archie Chaney Lou Chappuie John Creel Tim Crowe Shannon Cullinan Dennis Danieluk Steve Deick Bill Deitz Rich DuBrava Chris Estes Jamie Farmer Jim Gerth Sean Goldrick Will Grannan Lou Hall Jordan Halter Darin Harnisch Chris Heller Rob Hendel 


Good Luck &Thank You! 
CAMPUS MEDlA SERVICES MEDIA RESOURCES 
tl,Ir::--: Co-Captains JeffHoelscher Mark Kozak 

Brice Boughner Sean Goldrick Bryan Krayer Brian Lorigan Chrissy Prask 
•Katherine 
Bumb, a junior from Mandan, N.D., and Patri­cia Sayre, assistant professor of philosophy. Bumb and Sayre will team up for a study on "Exploring Empathy: Wittgenstein and the Problem of Private Experience." 

•Lisa 
Hardman, a junior from Pensacola, Fla., and Herold Weiss, professor of religious studies. Hardman will study "Paul's Letter to the Romans: Ethical Guidelines in a Diverse Community" and Weiss will ex­




:~-·,··:=·.:::~--'~:i ···'!:.:·,,-.:'·;:~:.:.,:: :~: .&:\HI/\
............ =::,:_.=:... ..·,:.....
=·••.=i·,:.:i....... ::, 

. ::;::::::::!ililfi:,:.,= :...:::,.··.... ::= 
Jim Vogl 


DeBARTOLO MEDIA SERVICES JeffBurns Rebecca Krieg Keith McKeon Katie O'Shea Bill Rosemann 

f


.,,:Jennifer Schuster 
·i·:·:··'·.:·.'''.....''=·.:':·,'.=·.:!.:·.:'·=·,'·,'·,'··,:'·.=·,:::::;·i
··''~:· 

·=::.· ,::::::::::::;:\·:ij 
. 'i{:::::::::.iii·i,,:,,.. 




SORIN COLLEGE CONGRATULATES 

amine "The Question of the Sabbath in the Epistles of Paul." 
Student-faculty research pro­grams at other institutions usually are restricted to the science areas, according to Saint Mary's associate dean of faculty Patrick White, coordina­tor of the program. The SISTAR program involves students from all academic disciplines and emphasizes a closer working relationship between the students and faculty members than found in other research programs. 


Craig Hentrich Eric Jones Sean Kelley AI Kozar Bryan Krayer Mike MacKinnon Mark Milbocker Doug Montgomery Chris Murnen Mike Murphy Ed Policy Bob Reilly Jeff Rhodes Doug Rice Joe Roberts Sean M. Ryan Sean P. Ryan Ron Sarrazine Jason Schrader Ben Schwartz Dan Shinnick Eric Silk Jeremy Smith Jeff Squyres P. J. Stettin Mike Stravino Tony VanEs Doug Viggiano 
Aaron Warren Mark Woodmansee 

OUR CLASS OF 1993 


-~-~~---~--~------------· -­
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Student leaders receive awards Effort to diversify has 
Special to The Observer bookstore committee and a theology major trom Birming­
progressed in four years.
member of the Colloquy for the ham, Ala., was cited for his Eleven undergraduates and Year 2000 Committee of the service as executive assistant to 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH same problems that other 
one graduate student from Whole. the student body president in 
Saint Mary's Editor campus groups have. 
Notre Dame received awards at Mara Fuller, a junior math­1992-93. 
"You have to keep students

the annual student leadership elementary education major Nicole Lamborne, a senior 
Efforts to create cultural motivated," Buchanan said.
recognition banquet. from Lake Forest, Ill., was biochemistry major from awareness and diversity on the "The difference is that the base honored for her leadership in Marlton, N.J., received an Saint Mary's campus have come of students to work with is a lot
Greg Butrus, a senior history the area of social concerns. award for her involvement as a 
a long way since the Class of smaller to begin with." 
major from Birmingham, Ala., Benjamin Gonring, a senior St. Hedwig's volunteer. 
1993 entered the College their Buchanan and Ramirez both
and student body president in government major from West Peter Matthews, a senior 
freshman year, according to said that in the future M.I.N.T.
1992-93 received an award for Bend, Wis., received an award English and philosophy major Tina Buchanan, a graduating must reach out all students, nothis management skills. for promoting serious dialogue from Paramus, N.J., was leader in the diversity just minority students. 
Butrus also was student rep­on campus. honored for his four-year in­movement on campus. "We want to take a real com­
resentative on the University Paul Kimes, a sophomore volvement with campus radio 
The Office of Minority, Inter­prehensive approach to diver­
station WSND. 
national and Non-Traditional sity on campus," Ramirez said. 
Reynold Nesiba, a graduate 
(M.I.N.T.) students began op­"We are not just an office that
ONEHOUR A" 
student in economics from St. 
eration four years ago and with serves minority students, but 
Paul, Neb., received an award 
the Office support great strides, we need to serve what you
for his "outstanding example to
MOTOPHOTO-
have been made according to would call majority students as 
both undergraduate and grad­
Buchanan. well." 
uate students." 
"You can tell the College is Buchanan agrees that educa­
Molly O'Neill, a senior philos­
moving toward the right direc­tion is the role of the M.I.N.T.
703 UNIVERSITY PARK 
ophy major from Cadillac, 
tion," Buchanan said. "The ef­and the ethnic groups on cam­
Mich., and student body vice 
fort has been there, but it is a pus.
president in 1992-93, received 
long process." "Through club activities and 
an award for the work she has 
The students who have taken discussion groups we are get­



:··sooio--OFF___:
done for South Bend's homeless 
on leadership roles during the ting people to understand that center. 
past four years have served as other groups exist outside of 
Megan Sullivan, a senior ac­
role models for the students the homogeneous community of 
countancy major from Ladue,
: F·ILM DEVELOPING :. who will take their places, said Saint Mary's," Buchanan said. 
Mo., was honored for her ser­
Marcela Ramirez, M.I.N.T. di­"We want to educate, not
1 With this coupon, receive SO% off the 1 vice as executive coordinator of rector. separate or cause tensions. We intellectual life. 
I regular price of processing and printing 1 "They have played a critical want to create an awareness 
Michael Swanson, a senior 
role in changing the college," between all groups of people on
I one roll of color print film (C-41 process). 1 
communications major from 
Ramirez said. campus."
I LI.\11T TWO ROLLS. Cdnnot be comb1ned with other coupons or Extra Set 1 Chicago, received an award for promotions. Club members are entitled to use th1s coupon. plus rece:1ve an Buchanan, along with Delia
his work as minority student
I add1t1onal 10% oii the discounted price in place or regular Club opt1ons. I Garcia of the now-disbanded Buchanan said that the cre­
recruitment coordinator for the 
FUERZA, Michelle Hill, of Sis­ation of M.I.N.T. at the begin­
undergraduate admissions of­
ters of the Nefertiti and Janet ning of her freshman year at
: •/n4ir-1P:t·'f·' t 
fice. 
Yuen, of the Pacific Basin Soci­Saint Mary's illustrated that the
I Expires in 30 Days I Daniel Wagner, a senior soci­
ety have served as leaders and administration was moving in 
ology and computer applica­
role models for a movement the right direction. 
r------------;---:--------------, tions major from Strabane, Pa., 
which neither Buchanan nor "The College was at least rec­
--------------------~ 
Brian & Dan Alesia-
was cited for his community in­Ramirez think will die out in ognizing the need for such an volvement. 
their absence. office," she said. "It has been
Congratulations on Your Graduation and Good Luck in Law School 
Jenny Witt, a senior govern­

"There are some really good great to have an office there as 
ment and philosophy major 
up-and-coming students who some sort of support."
from Omaha, Neb., received an 
will take over where we've left Ramirez agreed that Saint 
award for her leadership of the 
off," Buchanan said. She added Mary's has made strides, but 
class service project at St. 
that the ethnic diversity she said that nothing is perfect. 
Hedwig's Outreach Center. 
movement has encountered the Through the M.I.N.T. office she will continue to work to educate the entire campus on issues of diversity. 
"We've done a lot in four years," said Ramirez who cited the increase in minority, inter­national and non-traditional students as one the College's 
Congratulate 
Your Graduate 
accomplishments. 
Brian '93 Dan '93 
Buchanan said these efforts need to be continued to carry
Love, Mom and Dad 
**with flowers** 
out the work that has been ac­complished during her four years at Saint Mary's. 
Heaven & Earth
Congratulations 
"We need to educate about 

the differences, but also the 
similarities," she said. "We 
143 Dixie WayS
Class of 1993! 
2 blocks North of ND on US 31 
need to celebrate and work to­gether. We never make a point to be exclusive." 
Celebrate Your 
273~2212 
Graduation With A 
Limited Edition Handcolored Print 
Congratu[ations
By 
to 

Sarin Room-LaFortune 
Ken David
flursday, Friday and Saturday 
9-5 

IJ'fie C[ass of1993 
for your commitment to service and justice and peace
The Twin Cities Alumnae 
May it continue 

Club wishes to COJ!g_ratulate 
to enricfi your fives 

our 1993 Saint Mary's 
ant£, 

graduates from Minnesota 

tfirougfi you, Kim Didriksen Shanna Randolph 
your communityLaurie Donohoe Dawn Sandgren 
Gretchen Flicker jill Thompson 
Witfi appreciation,

Shannon Huneke Elizabeth Vogel 
'The Staff of'The Center for Socia[ Concerns 
Molly Mulrooney Teresa Welch Katherine Wolsfeld 

;as -­

Viewpoint 
'May Our Lady watch over you in the future' 
"Nobody's ever taught you how to live out on the street. Now, you're gonna have to get used to it." 
Bob Dylan 

Pass here, you're on the road to heaven: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
page 18 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ••••.••..Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Staph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Editor ................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion ol the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, le«ers and Inside Columns present the views ol the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through le«ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 
Managing EditorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 
Business Office 631·5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 
Sports 631·4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 
News/Photo 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
Friday, May 14, 1993 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

YOU KNOW, HONeY, YW SHOUWN'T IWRRY 90 /rlUCff A80UTGeTTING 
IN TROUW. GIRt'3 A/?8 Al/AJAYS MUCH TOO PREOCCIJPIW WITH BCING 6000, WITH A/..IAIAYS "flzy­ING 7D PlCAst OTHeR. PE:Of'U3. ... 
We'I<E: l05r AGAIN, AReN'T {))&; MOMMY2 

Dear Graduates: these high expectations. 
I would like to take this op­For those of you leaving portunity to extend my prayers with graduate and professional and best wishes to the members degrees. I hope that you will of the Class of 1993. carry with you the best of our Commencement is a time of traditions as they relate to your many mixed emotions. Pride in discipline. If you bring to your your a~hievements, excitement chosen field a strong set of ethi­and apprehension about new cal convictions and a commit­beginnings, happiness and ment to justice, you will repre­sadness come together as you sent the very best of Notre prepare to leave. Dame. 
For those of you who are Finally, a note of gratitude graduating Seniors, I hope that to all of you. You not only take we have achieved our goal of from here; you also give. You providing you with an have made a variety of contri­education that integrates the butions to your colleagues, to life of the mind with the life of the institution and to those of the heart. May your us who remain behind ~o assist commitment to your faith in students who will follow you. God and to service of His people May Our Lady, Notre Dame, match your dedication to your continue to watch over you in chosen vocation and profession. the years ahead. We are 
Notre Dame has high blessed to have you as mem­expectations of its graduates. bers of the Notre Dame family. The tremendous contribution Patricia A. O'Hara that our alumni make to society Vice President for Student and to the Church is a Affairs testament to the importance of May 11, 1993 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
gathered the most prolific and multi-faceted treatment. Why St. Mary's is not highlighted in the context of its Catholic char­acter, I do not know. 
In your issue of April 19, Dr. Eugene Diamond spoke about some politically correct issues that would not reeeive discus­sion on the South llend campus despite the administration's posture of presenting both sides of any argument. I submit that some dogmatic issues would also be excluded: the Trinity includes four persons; Jesus Christ is true man but not true God; the Pope is not infallible when teaching "ex c:athedra" on faith and morals. 
However, I believe that the success of Notre Dame has de-
DOONESBURY 
better university and a better Catholic university. Any president of a secular university could have penned Father Mal­loy's letter. 
Notre Dame needs to gen­erate a powerful effort to ex­pand opportunities for its un­dergraduates. They need the chance to participate in an ex­panded array of available courses conducted by faculty committed to Catholic as well as academic values. 
Notre Dame seems to be embroiled in even understand­ing what its Catholic character means in terms of its faculty. 
A publication of Creighton University, the Creighton Iden­tity, under a chapter on its be­ing Catholic announces, "A 


<D 
0 
0 
The university could benefit from examining values pre­dominant in contemporary so­ciety and judging them accord­ing to Catholic faith and morals. The blatant boasting in vulgar and obscene language in your newspaper about drunkenness and sexual activity among the unmarried might be one place to begin the debate. 
Notre Dame can be greater as a university and as Catholic. I expect excellence in both realms so that my son can find the help he needs to mature into an intelligent and produc­tive member of society and the Church. 
Edward L. Bode Jefferson City, MO April 28, 1993 
7H& WI-/Ole RJ/NT OF "TAKE OUR 
~"IS 7V PUT YOU 
IN 7H& OR/VCR'S SE-AT, 70 G!V!J YOU A SBN:ie OF CON­TRa ANO MA5T/3RY OVtf!.. 
YOUR....UH... >WI<... 


Viewpoint
Friday, May 14, 1993 page 19 

What though the odds be great or small, we are ND 
Here it is at last. The end. 
This week, in between con­gratulatory toasts and job appli­cations, I have started to think about what I will remember from Notre Dame. After all, I may not be lucky enough to get those all-important tickets to next year's Navy game. (Navy?) 
I've developed something like a mental photo album of this place, and you know what? Most of the pictures I have are pleasant. 
I see brilliant sunsets, fan­tastic fall foliage and a few weeks of sun. 
All the typical images are there: the Golden Dome during sunset, of Touchdown Jesus on a football Saturday, of the cherry blossoms on the Main Quad, and of the Grotto on a cold December night. 
There are also a few untyp­ical images, like the green "F" that sometimes stood on Fisher Hall, the #1 on top of Grace Hall, and the sight of Moses with a pumpkin on his index finger. 
For me, a large part of my memory revolves around The Observer, the semi-independent newspaper for which I slaved for four years. This memory is filled with harassing phone calls, jelly doughnuts, wild rumors about the editors, Shirley trying to figure us stu­dents out, and that strange but wonderful feeling you get at 4 
a.m. when you're finally done and can go to bed for a few hours. 
God bless and protect this paper and all the people stupid enough to work for it. They could sure use the blessing. 
There's sounds, too. Ev­erything from the Alma Mater to the Paul Simon concert to "May I have your attention, please..." The music of Access Denied, Chisel, Dissfunktion, Emily, and all the other obscure campus bands we'll never hear again, but will remember for­ever, or at least as long as we can. 
There are typical "party" songs: "Brown-Eyed Girl," "Only the Good Die Young," and "You Shook Me All Night Long.'~ 
And, of course, there are the taste sensations. Macri's big beers, Rocco's thick crust pizza, CJ's half-pound burgers and Linebacker's Long Island iced teas. Food and drink of the gods. 
One smell, too: ethanol in the morning. 'Nuff said. A few scores are in this album of memories, like NO 29, Miami 
Paul Pearson 
Ideas and Ideals 

20; ND 39, Florida 28; NO 17, Penn State 16. With that are images of Mr. Ismail running like a rocket, Chris Zorich pouncing on an unprotected quarterback, Lou Holtz giving a referee a well-deserved headlock, and of course, the "Student Salute." 
Especially the salute, because, when it comes down to it, this place is about the students, and my fondest memories revolve not around games or buildings or achievements, but around the wonderful medley of people that make the "Notre Dame Family" more than a catchy, pleasant little slogan. 
There's Todd Broski and Haley Scott. The caption under them has to be "True personifi­cations of the 'Notre Dame Spirit."' Well above and beyond the call of duty, guys. 
There's the pranks and stunts, ranging from stolen doors to streaking the library to what I call "stunt eating," a sport that can include anything from jalapeno peppers to Cocoa Krispies. 
There's the liturgical spirit in all its manifestations, whether it's an Easter Vigil at Sacred Heart or an intimate Sunday night hall Mass. 
There's the creative spirit you see in Fisher Regatta boats, Keenan Revue and Bookstore Basketball team names, proving that this place does have a sense of humor, after all. 
There are all my friends and roommates, late-night dis­cussion on things like Operation Desert Storm, the existence of God, and who is the greatest guitarist of all time. 
Of course, the deaths of Megan Beeler and Colleen Hipp affected us all, but you know what I recall from that? Two things: the sight of scores of students standing outside Sa­cred Heart because there wasn't enough room, and the sign that hung from the Knights of Columbus Building, "God Bless Our Swimmers." 
Through it all, this place has always shown its greatness through its people. I realize that I have made more than a few unkind remarks about this place, but, if I were 18 again, I would choose this place any day of the week and twice on Sun­day. 
Yes, Notre Dame means putting up with four years of DART, parietals, meatless baked ziti, the bookstore, Amer­ican Studies jokes and the Commons. 
But it also means becoming a part of community that does, at its heart, care about its members. 
Through good times and bad times. 
For better or for worse. 

What though the odds be great or small. 
I have never encountered so many people willing to lend a hand or an ear when they are needed. For that, I am truly grateful, and I believe that these people known to the ad­ministration as the "Notre Dame Family" have made all the sacrifices and pain that brought me here worthwhile. 
Therefore, a toast to the Class of 1993. Here's to our many happy returns to this campus, wearing plaid pants and complaining about how Domers have it so easy compared to when we were students... 
As the chant goes, we are NO. 

Paul Pearson will graduate from Notre Dame this Sunday with a bachelor's degree in American Studies. He was previously an Associate News Editor [or The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame's 'catholicity' rests upon its very own shoulders 
Dear Editor: 
I am a latecomer to the current public discourse on the so-called "Catholic nature of the University." An outsider to the corridors of power, I find that the question has been answered for me. Apparently the question is now closed, the work of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 concluded. Its report is sealed and ready for presentation to the Trustees. 
I doubt whether I will be able to concur with administratively defined "correct" answers, the final report or its slick presentation. 
Hasn't the current state of the discussion devolved into a struggle between opposed camps? Where many would eagerly engage in sincere at­tempt to discern what it is to bear a Catholic identity as an institution in the modern world, few are interested or have rapidly become disillusioned with the attempt by some, within the Dome and without, who have used the public dis­course to assert personal power, or self-proclaimed virtue. 
They have, in effect, wrapped themselves in the cloak of an ill­conceived triumph, the totalitarianism of a limited and limiting definition of Roman Catholicism. In truth they appear to be cowering in fear from the perception of a steadily encroaching "secularity." If the "catholicity" of the University is but one more buttress to the crumbling authority of its officers and old guard, few would conceivably want to take part in the sham. 
Where the· discourse on the Catholic character of the Uni­versity was initiated in order to discuss the (real and interest­ing) connections between catholicity and the project of human wisdom, it has become a struggle to assert one peculiarly limited version of Roman moral essentialism over a similarly limited caricature of "god-less" Secularity. 
This is why, I think, that the current discourse on the Catholic character of the University has come to seem so false, so one-dimensional, and so unbecoming of a supposedly Christian institution. We must ask again what it is to be "Catholic" and what it is to be a "University." 
The word "Catholic" has a specific ecclesiological meaning. "Catholicity" was decided to essentially mark the Church of Christ by the councils of Nicea and Constantinople. Along with unity, apostolicity, and holiness, "catholicity" resides at the core of what it means to be the Body of Christ before God and in the world. 
Only the whole Church, as such the Church of Christ, subsisting in the Roman Catholic Church, though not totally encompassed there, can, without idolatry, unequivocally claim "Catholicity." 
When we speak of "Catholicity" of an institution like Notre Dame, it is derived catholicity. The catholicity of Notre Dame will always be par­tial and incomplete. Notre Dame and its administrators ought never pretend to stand in loco ecclesiae in the same way that they already presume to stand in loco parentis. 
If we have an idea of what it is for Christ's Church to be Catholic then, by extension won't we have a better idea what its is for a university to participate in that church's catholicity? The eminent Orthodox theologian and ecu­menist, John Zizioulas, has re­searched the term and its ori­gins extensively. In an impor­tant article on the topic, "Eucharistic Community and the Catholicity of the Church," he addressed the question of how Aristotle's adjective kat'holou came to define the Church. 
Catholicity is less an achievement of a human insti­tution, he said, than it is the qualitative description of "being where Christ is" wherever that may be. He continues, "there is no autonomous catholicity, no catholic ethos that can be un­derstood in itself. It is Christ's unity and it is his catholicity that the Church reveals in her being catholic...Catholicity is neither an objective gift to be possessed nor an objective order to be fulfilled, but rather a presence" with whom one lives and moves and has one's being. 
The university might conceivably be composed of totally righteous people, hardly a sinner in our midst, everyone publican agreed to every iota of the moral law, yet not at all be catholic, a university of bleached bones, sepulchral. On the contrary, if we are to agree with the early Christian writers, and Zizioulas' description of catholicity is based on an un­comfortably accurate reading of Ignatius and Cyprian, then, in order for the university to be catholic it must, in its depths, in an often inchoate awareness, through its students, its studies and its structures, find and be aware of the personal presence of Christ, the incarnation of Truth. broken in Love and of­fering Mercy. 
Our question has now been shifted. In the university's en­deavors, in its embrace of truth, can Christ be found? Is the university convinced that Christ is read as much in the quantum mechanics of chance and uncertainty as in the writings of St. Paul? 
Is his presence felt in tenure committee or Faculty Senate, or, heaven forbid, in the office of the Vice President for Student Affairs? The endeavor of the university, entirely dependent upon and derived from the mission of the Church, is not so much to embody Christ as it is to discover him, and discovering him, to make him known. I hope that conservative members of our community will take no comfort here. 
I am not advocating that we drop engineering from the curriculum in favor of theology, physics in favor of medieval philosophy. Nor am I suggest­ing that organic chemistry is somehow redeemed by the perfunctory recitation of a "Hail Mary" at the beginning of class. In our eyes, the practice of or­ganic chemistry lab, in and by itself, in the catholic context, is no less redemptive, no less revelatory of Christ, than prayer or devotion, or else it has not legitimate place here. 
The catholicity of the uni­versity seems to me not to de­pend upon the exact content of what we discover as a univer­sity engaged in the pursuit of truth. The contents of truth have changed, and presumably will continue to change. Nor is the point that we continually crow, in anguished despair, about the loss of a "moral" world that never once existed. 
The value at stake, the crux from which our catholicity ei­ther dies or rises, is what or, better, who motivates our quest of discovery and once having been motivated, with what breadth of vision do we pursue the quest? 
The manner in which these questions are answered weighs far more heavily upon the "catholic character of the uni­versity" than whether university administrators hinder ho­mosexuals, feminists, racial minorities, or pro-choice advo­cates with oppressive and dis­criminatory policies. 
Instead, the catholic university in its essential, self­defining moment (as opposed to the secular institution) challenges its members and its audience, whoever they are, to seek ever more adequate descriptions of who Christ is for them, what ever that may be, wherever he may be found, whose ever life he has redeemed. 
I suggest that the criterion upon which students ought to be admitted, faculty and admin­istrators, hired or fired, in a Catholic University ought not to be based on some quota system. Sadly, mere membership in the Roman Catholic Church or notional adherence to its doc­trines, besides being ecumeni­cally offensive, does not and can not ensure that students, professors, or administrators are inspired by the values and vision of a genuine "catholicity." 
Rather, a more adequate criterion for membership in the community which aspires to be "catholic" and "universal" might better be a willingness to enter the contest, to wrestle with Christ, even with a Christ one cannot (yet) believe in, in a contest for Truth. That's what's best about Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame's Catholic character, it seems to me, rests on their shoulders, or it shall be lost entirely, whether to author­itarian absolutism or to saltless secularity it hardly matters. 
Jeffrey VanderWilt 
Off-Campus 
May7, 1993 
/ 


ow 






Service is success 
; Notre Dame Band L~wn Concert, Mai!JI: .Quad. u:30 p.m. 
i_ 

The Camerata Singers, Elto l11B41Qr1 
the center and Mike Coman show Chan the men's dormitory. 
By CHRISTY FLEMING became involved in various Two and a half years later, Assistant Accent Editor social service programs with Nanni returned to the United the help of the Center For States, "a changed man." In In a mere 48 hours some Social Concerns. August he continued his service 2,500 Notre Dame and Saint Through the Big Brother, career by entering the Masters Mary's students will be trans­Little Brother program Nanni International Scholars program, formed into alumni. developed a close relationship originally started by Father 
However, most of the class of with an eight-year old, African Theodore I lesburgh. 1993 are chasing careers in American boy, an experience Under this program Nanni business. For those who haven't which "had a transforming and few other selected students found jobs or simply want spe­effect on my life," said Nanni. lived and worked together while cialized education, graduate "Developing a rapport with trying to develop a thesis for a school is the primary option. this child allowed me to open solution to the peace problem. 
' ' -_ -' ' Yet, there are a few who opt my eyes and my heart even After he completed the mas­
~~ . \ :·.·, . '··..-I : ~· ·-. . ~ . . . •. ~ ~ ' 
to forego financial success by more to those in desperate ters program in June of 1988,
;, Trib~te To kiss,EikartCoun.Y·communlty Oeritet,'$; · 
focusing on the improvement of need-not just in need of my Nanni continued to dedicate his 
-~ 7 p.m.·,,. . , _., , ".,->i 
those who are less fortunate services, but of my support and life to service by becoming the
-. Notre-Dame Glee Clu~.Commenaement, Stepah~­
. Center, 9 p.m. · instead. Quite a few seniors care." director of the World MiSsions
· : The-Cooler Kings, Madison Oyster Bar, 288·3776, $, choose post-graduate service The summer between his Office in Orlando, Florida for 
, 10p.m. ·· · for one or two years-some sophomore and junior year, the Catholic Diocese. 
even make it a lifetime. Nanni had the opportunity to [The purpose for this program !'EVENTS One Notre Dame graduate work with the Senate in was to promote global aware­found a worthwhile career by Washington, D.C. This too had a ness and Nanni did so by asso­lYou're AGood Man Charlie Brown. Battell Center, "going beyond his own circle of significant effect on Nanni's life. ciating the Orlando ol1ice with a
: 272-9691, $, 8 p.m. . 

friends and family to reach out "I saw the corrupt goals of sister program in the:Plain and Fancy, Amish Acres, 773-4188, $, 3 p.m. 
to others who are in need." many people I encountered," he Dominican Republic.] 
. and 6 p.m. 

Lou Nanni, 1984 graduate of said. "In order to avoid this Three years later he was ap­. Volwifee,:-Senior Send·Off, Washington Hall; 
·; 10:30 a.m. -Notre Dame, is currently the di­same selfishness, I vowed to pointed to the Advisory Council rector of the Center for the use the limited talents given to for Church Life at Notre Dame Homeless. Nanni initially had me in order to help others, not which was followed by his pro­aspirations for a career in law. hurt them." motion to the Board of Trustees. Yet as many freshman do, ··After graduating in '84, Nanni During one of his meetings for
sunday ... 
Nanni's ideas began to change . participated in the Holy Cross the board, Nanni visited the 
In his sophomore year he de­Associates program in Chile. "I Center for the Homeless and cided to pursue two majors: lib­wanted to see the United States decided the center would eral studies and government. through the eyes of shanty town "su11iciently challenge him as a 
Durin this time he also dwellers." person." 
"I felt fortunate to be able to attempt to rid our society of the homeless problem and offer compassion and creativity to a solution to the problem," said Nanni. 
In March of 1991 he received the job of Executive Director of the Center and has remained ever since. Nanni also works as an adjunct professor, teaching a seminar on homelessness at Notre Dame. 

Nanni is a prime example of a devoted individual who choose UnJv; Park East service not simply as temporary 
experience, but a life-long ca­Splitting Heirs, 7:15 and 9:30 reer. Benny & Joan, 2:20, 5:00, 7:45, 9:45 "Many people are in greatThe Dark Half, 7:10 and 9:30 
need and are often never af­

The Boy's Life, 7:10 and 9:30 forded the best resources ourThe Crying Game, 2:10, 4:30, 7:00, 9:15 society has to offer," said Nanni. 
Dragon, 2:15, 4:40, 7:10, 9:45 
"I hope that the recent alumni focus on being faithful to what
Unlv. Park West 

they believe instead of worrying Sidekicks, 7:15 and 9:20 about being financially success­Three of Hearts,7:25 and 9:40 ful. It is much more important 

The Observer/David Hungeling 
Henry Lovell, a guest of 




Cop & A Half,2:30 and 5:00 The Observer/David Hungeling to focus on what we do and how Notre Dame student Molly O'Neil assists Notre Dame alumnus Mike we do it, than what we haveComan in rolling Penn State posters, which raised over $40,000 for The 
and how we get it." 

Center for The Homeless. 




Just





w 
at? 
Relax!
Graduates find work abroad 
By KENYA JOHNSON Accent Editor 
Christine Korchnak preferred working in a pizza parlor in Ox­ford, London than to have a "real job" in Lafayette, Indiana. 
Korchnak is a graduate from Purdue University, and is one of many who participated in "Work in Britain" after college graduation. 
"Work in Britain" is one of the many overseas job programs attracting students from all over the United States with a multiplicity of academic and ethnic backgrounds. "Work in Britain" was established 27 years ago as a part of a reciprocal arrangement between the Unites States and United Kingdom. 
Participants take a variety of jobs ranging from hotel staff in the Scottish Highlands, to fman­cial assistants in Manchester's business district, according to Nick Mearey, director of "Work in Britain." 
Most participants are content with blue-collar or secretarial employment, but in this last year 20 percent worked in career-related positions. 
"It's not particularly easy to organize a career-related job in Britain," said Ann Greenwood, a graduate of Wake Forest University."But it's no more difficult than finding similar work at home in America." 
Greenwood first participated in "Work in Britain" in the summer of 1990, and then re­entered the program after she graduated from college. 
She explained that she was not "too fussy" about finding a job the first time, but after graduation she had professional aspirations. Greenwood is currently working in London as a marketing assistant with D'Arcy Masius Bentog & 
"I felt that I achieved full intergration with British life, getting to know the way people live and how they think." 
-Jeff Martin 
University of Michigan 
Bowles, one of Europe's premier advertising agencies. 
Then again, some students don't mind the "casual" jobs they obtain. 
"Although working at a pub might not sound like the most educational experience possible, for me it was more rewarding than my studies," said Jeff Martin, a graduate of the University of Michigan. 
"I felt that I achieved full inte­
gration with British life, getting 
to know the way people live and 
how they think," he added. 
Although most have concerns about jobs, some do have to think about being a minority in these different cultures. 
Roberta English is an African­American 1992 graduate of Northwestern University's School of Journalism. Although she had aspirations of being a news reporter or editor, English decided to work as a waitress at The Rock Garden in London for a year instead. 
After "Work in Britain," she immediately participated in the "Work in Ireland" program. As an African-American travelling abroad, English was worried about racism she might face. 
"I always wanted to spend a lengthy time overseas, and working was the best way to re­ally connect with the locals and make the trip affordable," she said. 
"But as a woman of color I was concerned about possible discrimination. My concerns were based on what I heard on television or from other people." 
English claimed, however, that she hadn't experienced any problems or experienced any discrimination in Ireland or Bri­tain. 
"Until you make the effort to learn someone else's culture and likewise teach them about yours, you are as much to blame as they are for any ignorance and fear which exists between the two." 
Students may participate in "Work in Britain," or similar programs during the summer, but most pursue work overseas after college graduation. 
Details and applications can be obtained by writing to Council on International Educational Exchange, 205 East 42nd Street, New York, New York, 10017. 
Sliver 
Opens May 21 Beware, this is a steamy one. After four years at Notre Dame, you may go into shock. The story is centered around a recent divorcee (Sharon Stone) who becomes romantically involved with a wealthy bachelor (William Baldwin) when she moves to a ritzy place in New York where res!dent's intimate moments are videotaped. Before cuts, this movie carried a rating of NC-17. What else would one expect from Sharon Stone? 
Jurassic Park 
Opens June 11 Steven Spielberg has taken Michael Crichton's best seller to the big screen. Essentially the movie is about dinosaurs that are genetically re-created for the ultimate theme park. But of course, something goes wrong and the dinosaurs are on the loose. Starring Laura Dern, Sam Neill and Jeff Goldblum, the movie is sure to be a blockbuster this summer. No other movies are even scheduled to open on the same day. Still, do yourself a favor and read the book first. 
The Firm 
Opens July 2 If you're the average "Joe-Shmoe" or "Ann-Spann" then you're one of the many who picked up this best seller by John Grisham, and didn't put it down until you reached the last page. Yes, The Firm is coming to the silver screen and it's guaranteed to be a hit. Tom Cruise stars in it, so already there are millions of women waiting on the ticket line. In case, for some odd reason, you've not read the book, the story is about a law school graduate who signs on with a small , but wealthy partnership that turns out to be a law firm for the mafia. The movie also stars Gene Hackman and Holly Hunter. 
Otlae:r Possibllitielli Hot Shots,Part Deux: Charlie Sheen, Lloyd Bridges. Slapstick comedy. Opens May 21. Coneheads: Dan Aykroyd, Jane Curtin and a variety of cameo appearances. Comedy. July 23. Sleepless in Seattle: Tom Hanks, Meg Ryan. Romance, comedy. Opens June 25. In The Line Of Fire: Clint Eastwood, Rene Russo. Action­adventure, secret service. Opens July 9. The Fugitive: Harrison Ford, Tommy Lee Jones. Drama, suspense. Opens Aug. 6. For The Love Of Money: Michael J. Fox. Romance, comedy. Opens Aug. 20. 
Young musical talent makes it big 
By KENYA JOHNSON Accent Editor 
As graduating colleges students, brainwashed to pursue "stable" careers, many of you have long forgotten your dreams to be 'a star'. In this world of risk and chance, who would be crazy enough to pursue their hopes of entering the entertainment business? 
Well one group of five young adults were crazy enough, and as a result are now touring America and the United Kingdom pror.wting their latest album release. 
Freestyle Fellowship is a new musical group in the Hip-Hop scene, with a revolutionary sound of their own. They've just produced "Innercity Griots", which has recently made it to the floors of all major music stores. 
Its heard from the East Coast to the West and across the seas in Europe, but what exactly this new thing called Hip­Hop that has swept our country, and others as well. 
"Hip-Hop is influenced by all types of music," said D.J. Kiilu of Freestyle Fellowship. "The entire vibe stems from musics such as jazz, blues and acappella-just good, old soul music." 
Aceyalone (Acey), one of the rappers in the group, explained that Hip-Hop is on the rise. "It's developing like all other types of music are. Hip-Hop brings ev­erything into it's music; it's mixes music all together." 
Rapper Mikah Nine (Mikah) added, "Music is a language, created by putting layer on top of layer. It's never the same as before because with each new song or beat, we're experiencing, trying to broaden ourselves and our music." 
Freestyle Fellowship is composed of four rappers , and one D.J. (for the turntables), all in their early to mid­twenties. They have been together for about three years. 
"As a child and teenager, music and rapping was just a hobby for all of us," explained Mikah. "We did it for years ,out of love for the music, before we even sought out a record deal." 

At one time, when there was no Freestyle Fellowship, all of the members were simply "doing their own thing." 
"Our styles may be different, but we just clicked once we hooked-up," said Kiilu. "We had the same vibe all along," 
Now, as a result of their "clicking,"and similar vibes, Freestyle Fellowship is well on it's way to success. 
But it wasn't easy getting to the point they are now. 
"Our first album was cut 'out of the trunk,' but we realized we needed the contacts and help of an already established record label to start off," explained Acey. It was in this realization that Freestyle Fellowship decided to sign with Island Records and produce "Innercity Griots". 
And it's a good thing they did, because the cuts they created are worth an album and then some. Freestyle Fellowship successfully mixes an array of music in a way that listeners cannot help but bob their heads and tap their feet. 
Songs to especially listen for are "Cornbread," "Everything's Everything," and "Danger". Most impressive is their distinct original jazz sound mixed with their raps. None other has accomplished such crowd-pleasing sounds thus far. 
As for their future, Freestyle Fellowship is ready for anything that comes their way. Already they've ".. discussed more albums, bigger tours and their own record label. 
"Basically we plan to maintain and keep in the groove of the overall movement," said Mikah. "We are constantly working on new material-we are constantly creating." 
The group plans to stay together for a ..,. long time, but realizes changes may occur throughout the years. 
"Fellowship may be in a situation where a member moves on to something different, or new members come in," said Acev. "We're all working in one unit and, all working in the same spirit." 
Perhaps most importantly, they are all still pursuing their dream. In that alone, they are a success. 
~----~----------------------------------~---------------------------­
Page 22 Friday, May 14, 1993 
Bashers should come to pray, not scoff 
When I compare Our Lady's  
 Malloy was polite and kind,  television in the springtime he  
University to the City of Emer­alds at the end of the yellow  Father Robert Griffin  according to Heers, but his re­sponse was disappointing.  retired. The Mother of God may make visits to Lourdes, Fatima,  
brick road on the far side of the  "Father Malloy said they are  and those other world-famous  
rainbow, I'm only trying to warn you that if you come here as a visitor thinking that Notre  Bellers loa Bonefj 9or/  content with the present course. He said he is doing other things in other areas, He will take our  shrines, he said, but he has it figured out that Our Lady makes her home at Notre  
Dame derives most of its fame  advice and think about it. IN  Dame.  
from being the home of the  great cloud of witnesses which  who never saw the Dome. Some  OUR OPINION HE HAS CHOSEN  If Father Hesburgh believes  
Fighting Irish, you could miss  had the strength of a family not  of them stay so busy asking,  A PATH OF FAILURE.  that, so do I, and so should you.  
getting anywhere near the soul  limited, from his day to ours, to  "How Catholic is Notre Dame  Every night when he was on  
of the place.  the Priests, Brothers and Sisters  anyway?" the question should  We did what we wanted to do,  campus,  keeping  the  night  
Notre Dame's physical beauty  of the Holy Cross Community.  be turned in a board game like  which was talk to Father Malloy  watch as President, he used to  
is sacramental. Its leafing and  I'm not trying to stampede the  Monopoly.  with love in our heart. Praise  visit the Grotto, and I felt it was  
flowering signify the "dearest  immediate world into believing  The bashers show up here  God we got the meeting, but  where he got his marching  
freshness  deep  down  that Notre Dame is God's little  with axes to grind, not even  PRAY FOR FATHER MALLOY."  orders.  
things ... Because the Holy Ghost  acre, Domers, in their dotage or  dimly  aware  that they  are  One wishes that the college  Now Monk, as his successor,  
over the bent/World broods with  still in their salad days as stu­ standing on the Gettysburg of a  student who founded CALL had  shows up there too, as though  
warm  breast and  with  ah!  dents green in judgment, will  battlefield of an ancient Faith.  trusted  Notre  Dame  to  be  this was a responsibility that  
bright wings."  tell you with grim faces of the  In March, a group of pro-life  Catholic enough to know what  comes with being the University  
All of Nature is sacramental;  lovers' quarrels they have had  activists, members of the na­ its appropriate response to the  President.  
to those who love her, Notre  or are having with their Alma  tional pro-life organization, Col­ abortion crisis should be. If he  The Catholic Church has been  
Dame could be the flagship of  Mater.  legians Activated to Liberate  ever wakes up and smells the  waiting for a long time for the  
the sacramental universe. So if  Undergraduates, who come  Life (CALL), came on campus to  coffee, he may wish that he had  Catholic Salks  and  Oppen­ 
you're here to judge us unfairly,  here to grow up, are often in  hold a peaceful seven-hour sit­ kept his pompous backside off  heimers able to do homework  
or have mean-minded thoughts,  pain. Suffering bitterly from  in outside University President  the Notre Dame campus, and  for  the  Pope  in  matters  of  
you should pray to regain the  legitimate disappointments,  Monk Malloy's office.  stayed home in bed that March  genetics  and  human  
state of grace, because you're  they often cry out against what  The  chutzpah  of  CALL  day..  reproduction; so much of the  
probably  not  spiritually  they  perceive  to  be  the  founder Peter Heers shows how  At the end of May, Medju­ modern research in these fields  
prepared  to  receive  the  hypocrisy of administrators who  arrogant holy zeal can become,  gorites will import alleged vi­ has  become  Catholicism's  
Eucharist, either.  hype the joint to the point of  if it is allowed to run amok. He  sionaries from the Sundance  stumbling block.  
For millions of American  overkill.  said: "The University of Notre  country  to  speak  at  a  A  campus  on  which  200  
Catholics-most  of  them  Minority students can spend  Dame has not done anything to  convention in the Joyce Center.  Masses  are  said every day,  
subway alumni-Notre Dame is  their years here feeling lost,  follow  the  teaching  of the  The Grotto is Notre Dame's  generating spiritual energy as a  
their New Jerusalem, their  and out of touch with their  Catholic Church on abortion."  own doorway between worlds,  powerhouse of grace, could  
marriage feast at Cana.  roots; unless they can learn to  Monk emphasized to CALL that  where  moral  miracles  are  have a scientific mission to push  
Of course, the place isn't  forgive Notre Dame, where they  Notre  Dame  is  a  pro-life  delivered nightly, like Domino's  back the darkness surrounding  
Eden, idyllic with innocence,  feel like fish out of water, they  institution and always has been.  pizza, to students asking for  the human condition.  
but neither is it Camelot. Hugh  can leave the place, hoping  Heers said, "President Malloy  help  in  the  darkness.  So why  have  the  bashers  
Latimer's great exit line as a  never to see it again.  has an obligation as a Catholic  Medjugorje has become famous  mounted a campaign to keep  
Protestant martyr was: "We  All of us at the University  leader.  He  must  stand  in  as the watering-hole of the  Notre  Dame  narrow  in  its  
shall  this day light such  a  have  an  obligation  to  be  solidarity with the victims of  trusting where rosaries are  service to truth, like a denomi­ 
candle  by  God's  grace  in  sensitive, and to show kindness  crime."  turned gold.  national college in the Bible  
England as I trust shall never  to the young and the restless  The only thing they asked of  Even if the likelihood of that  Belt? If any of them should  
be put out."  living in this community of faith  me was to pray at a location  impressed me more, I'd still  come here this weekend to  
Notre  Dame  was  Sorin's  and learning.  where abortions are being per­ remember what Father Hes­ scoff, I hope that instead of  
candle in the wilderness, and  What is offensive  are  the  formed," replied Monk. "I gave  burgh told the entire Notre  bashing, he will remain here to  
he compassed it about with a  cheap shots from Dome-bashers  them no commitment."  Dame family on closed-circuit  pray.  

The Department of Computer Science and Engineering congratulates Our I st Senior Class of Computer Engineers 
~ 
-
Lise Beudoin • 
Peter Obringer
Devin Brisson 
Tracy Pycik
Francisco Carrizo 
Timothy Ouenan
Gary Chirhart 
Jason Schrader
John DaCosta 
Robery States
Ryan de la Pena 
Kerri Sterling
Richard Fulcher 
Anthony Stornetta
Jeffrey Gerber 
James Tilton
Joseph Hayes 
Steven Tompkins
Christina Krakowiecki 
Mauricio Valdes
Daniel Langrill 
John Wiseman
Stephen Macmanus 
Limin Yan
Stephen Murraine 
Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer 
SMC 
continued from page 40 
Raster was named Athlete of the Year from 1986-87 and 1987-88. For the 1988 season was named Scholar Athlete with a cumulative grade point average of 3.55. 
Raster played all-district basketball for three years. She served as co-captain for two 
years and was voted MVP in 1987. 
In 1987, Raster led district 21 (NAJA) in the following cate­gories: 
• 
Scoring (329 points) 

• 
Assists 

• 
Steals 

• 
Field goal percentage 


Raster graduated from the University of Notre Dame Law School in May 1992 and is now practicing law in Chicago. 
Mayer is living in Grosse Point, Mich. Mayer teaches 
elementary school and coaches men and women's tennis at Liggate High School. 
Mayer's was the No. 1 singles and doubles player for two of her four years at Saint Mary's. She compiled a career win-loss record of 66-13. 
Mayer received a NCAA Nationals Singles top-3 5 ranking at No. 1 singles. She is the only Saint Mary's College tennis player to hold a national NCAA ranking. 
page 23 

The Observer Sports Staff congratulates its graduating seniors 
Jim Vogl 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Rich Kurz 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING 256-6657 
Kim and Meg rock the world! 
··sENIORS.. 
LIMITED EDITION WATERCOLOR LITHOGRAPH 
$10 
Available at LaFortune Info Desk and at the Graduation Dance tonight 9-1. 
Proceeds go to the family of Todd Broski. •• SENIORS •• 
SELL YOUR BOOKS FOR $$ Pandora's Books BOB Howard at the BOOKMOBILE ND ave & Howard 233-2342 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: A Ricoh camera on the senior cruise. I think !left it on a bus. If you found it, please call me! Lisa x4707. 
•Lost at Senior Formal in Chicago• 1 roll of completed film with 2 months of pictures • EXTREME sentimental value ­if found, PLEASE call Mary at 4619! 

WANTED 
Young resume writing company seeks student to assist in special project. Pay involved. Please call Philippe Giron at: (BOO) 562-0400 or (212) 861-706B. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·B00-7B6-B373. 
50,000,000 Babies 
Looking for responsible female with car to babysit for summer. Discuss hours/pay with interview. Call 232-6755. 
ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER AND NEXT YEAR. PLEASE CALL 2B9-9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE. 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291-7153. 
3 bedroom, 4 blocks south of N.D. $490. Laundry. 67 4-6046, 234-18B3. 
3-5 person furnished house, sec system, wash/dry, beach V-ball, prime location. $500. 109 N. St. Peter, 233-9947. 
ROOM FOR RENT, Privacy, Uti!. incl., Must see, Male preferred, ph 291-9093 
1 blk from ND Apts. Safe, affordable, furnished apts. At 755 South Bend Ave.: STUDIO: $215 1-BDRM: $245 2-BDRM: $330 
At 607 E. Corby: 1 BDRM: $265 
At 519 E. Corby: 2 BDRM: $280 
SUMMER OR FALL. Dep. & References. 1-B00-582-9320. 
Summer sublet: furnished 2 bdrm house near campus AC, nice yard, $300 Dave 232-7970 
SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. GREAT RATES! AVAIL. NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306 
••students•• Now renting 1300 sq It condos at College Park Condominiums. All units include: -Security systems, -Hard wood floors, -All appliances, -Washer & dryer in unit, -Large balconies, -Gas utilities, -Free covered parking, -2 large bedrooms, -2 full bathrooms, -Only 1/4 mile from door of Hesburgh library. For appt. -272-0691 or see Off­Campus Housing office. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS. 272-0615. 

FOR SALE 
OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS 
South Bend 4 Bedroom, 1/2 mile north of University in Oakmont Park. $150.00 entry fee. (800) 4B4-7033 x4B56 for details. 
ND Ski Team T-Shirts Only $10!! Call John at (70B)304-4226 
B7 Chevy Nova for sale by senior who is moving to NYC and can't afford to keep it there. Excellent shape, air cond, pull out stereo, 4D. $3000 or b.o.. Call Mike at 271­0157. 
'B9 Toyota Celica, 5 speed, air, power, sunroof,maroon, tinted windows, viper alarm w/motion. Asking 7,500. 233-B1B4. 
APARTMENT SALE sofa-sleeper, double beds, dressers, end-tables, kitchen table, desk, TV/stereo stand ••priced to sell.. call mark@ 271-157B 
Condo-Walk to Notre Dame!! 3 Bedroom, 2 Bath. Large Unit. $79,900. The Prudential Joseph Dunfee Realtors-Kay Norem 299-0110 or 235-35B9. 
An APPLE lmagewriler 2, excellent condition, original packing, paper included. $175 negotiable. Call evenings before 9, 272-3019. 
SMC approved LOFT in great condition for sale at 
BEST offer !!I 
Call Mara at 2B4-5254 
incusbus-the campus CD 
is on sale at the Info. Desk in LaFortune 
the disc only costs $B 
Get yours now-it's good stuff! 
(sponsored by SUB) 
WEDDING GOWN, 

"DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6. GORGIOUS. NEVER WORN. $500. 271-5632. 

TICKETS 
•• SENIORS** 

LIMITED EDITION WATERCOLOR LITHOGRAPH 
$10 

Available at LaFortune Info Desk and at the Graduation Dance tonight 9-1. 
Proceeds go to the family of Todd Broski 
**SENIOR"* 

1 WY-TICKET; FEMALE MAY 18, S.BND-TAMPA $125 OBO FRANK 634-4539 
Looking for one extra ND 
commencement ticket... 
call 2B4-5254 
Thanks! 

I need extra graduation tix! 
Please call Kathryn at x2999 

PERSONAL 
Adopt: we are truly loving couple who can bring love and happiness to your white newborn. We offer financial security and a great future in our oceanside home. Medical/legal expenses covered. 1­B00-43B-6599 eves. 
Good luck Whitney Wilds on final exams. We're proud of your accomplishments. Enjoy San Diego -The Stone Family 
ATIN: SUMMER SCHOOL 
STUDENTS 

$5.50 Haircuts 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
1523 Lincolnway West 
South Bend, IN 
233-4767 

Doctor and teacher will make 
dreams for your baby come true. 
Full-time parenting. Best of the city; 
summers by the beach. Your baby 
rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace 
in winter, and by ocean waves in 
summer. Art, music, the best 
education, endless love. Call 
Franny or Stephen collect. 
(212) 369-2597. 
Dear Stephen, 

I have been longing for your 
luscious cheeks ever since 
you walked out of my 
restaurant in Chicago. When 
you walked out of Ed's, you 
walked out of my life. 
Come back, come back­
! want to check you out! 
-Riker 

Sess, Di, Pfouts, Tini, Aimo, Chrissy, TePot, REM, Gab, Fitz, Ann, Many, Kathy, Kelly, Melissa, P.l, Susie, Tara, Bridget, Dora, Margaret-Thanks for the memories! I'll miss you! -Jahnelle 
To the guys at 203 E. Marion, 
Judge, Doug, Tim, Steve and 
Ed-Bye, guys! I'll miss you! 
-Jahnelle 

Mith, Fith and Steen: Thanks for 
every1hing over the past four 
years-! couldn't have done it 
without you! Love, Jith 
Shirley, Many, Dave, Kenya, 
Meredith, Kevin, Ro, Scrudato, 
Jeanne, Rich, Rock, Marguerite, 
Dan and everyone else at The Big 
0: Thanks for everything! Nell 
If you are moving to D.C. permanently, join the CLUB!! (The N.D. alumni club of D.C. that is!) Information packets with all you ever wanted to know about life in 
D.C. are available at the LaFortune Info desk, the alumni office, career and placement, and the government dept. To join the club, call Elsie Kozak Crawford, '90, 202-332-4943. Membership FREE!! 
**SENIORS*' 

Class Watercolor Lithograph 
Created by David Colgan 
On Sale Now 
$10 

at LaFortune Info Desk 
Buy Now, You won't want to graduate without ill !I 
**SENIORS'* 

Thanks for the memories Pat, Hyer, Harry, Crotch and all the other Freshmen. 
Dear Sloan and Cesar, The Observer misses you. Please come back! 
Love, The Systems Dept. 
pat is poop. 

MOM, DAD and Grandmother; Thank you so much for coming here all the way from Seattle and California to be with me on this great day -it wouldn't be the same if you weren't here. Well, here's where your $60,000 went -Thank you so much for all your love and support over the years. I hope I made you proud. Thanks again for being here to share this with me. I love you all very much . 
Patrick 
To everyone who's missed seeing their names in the paper since my retirement: LADIES: Nell dog HeyNiff MARGE Lushy & KT Heidi Ho Ho & Karen Marguertie Carol Top Shropp Joyful, Jules, Mo (both of you), Margaret HaughHaugh, Hey Hey Paula, Susan Pollution Sattan, Amy &MC Ann Marie & Mary .... Gents: 
Rail 

Eric (always one of us) Goose Dog & Robert Joe (legs) & Sappy GPB & McCarthy Zahm Guys, Flanner Guys and everyone else I don't the money to mention 
I wish you all the best in luck and love in the real world, and will miss you like an itchy rash. Thanks for the memories -Many. 
DFK: don't know how to say it so i won't. (i've been trying for two years) gee­gad-wa. ps: i will miss you, you know -the fat & ugly & ridiculous one 
pat is great 

WATER POLO STUD You did it! Congratulations, sweetie! I wish you luck and happiness in all that you do. And just remember, soldier boy, I'll be true to 
you. !love you, Carrie 
IL. couple married 10 yrs. longing for a family. We offer endless love, security, deep Christian family values, education, close extended family with cousins & large group of friends with children just waiting for a playmate. Please call B00-3B2-8897, We'd love to talk to you. 
Dear Sara and Diana, 
Mod Quad just won't be the same without you. Hope you have a great graduation and that you come back and visit us ASAP! 
Arabic Dan Sarabelle -I will miss you so. Have fun across the sea and write often, my pet! 

Dianita -Good luck next year, whatever it is you decide! I will miss you very much! 

Goober, We made ill I want to thank you for all the shared laughter, tears and joy. You can't imagine how much you have meant to me all these years. !love you very much and don't you forget ill Love, Jellybean 
Jen­It's been a great 4 years. Good luck to you and Mario! I'll see you in Conn. in July. Love always, Tracy 
Lish­Who'd have thought we'd get this far? Don't forget KVL, KCL, and branch element equations! Take care and good luck! Love, Tracy 
Amy, It's been the best of times and the worst of times. But it's always been fun. Best of luck to you and Rich and good luck at Pitt Med! Love, Tracy 
UNITED 19J, 

Received your message. Thanks for calling. Ad ran later than I expected and I was in Atlanta for the week. Can't quite get you out of my head. I relocate to Boston for work June 1 and could use a guide. Please call again and leave a number if you get my machine. (502) B94-9994. Biii20J 
TOP TEN QUOTATIONS FROM THE 1993 March on Washington for Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Equal Rights and Liberation: 
10. There's no better sight than 
South Bend in the rear-view mirror. 
9. I love your big red car. 

B. Hurry upl I thought you lesbians were all wash and go. 
7. Gay myth #9: We all have good taste. 
6. Merchants never fear gay people for looting. It would 
take us too long to try on every1hing in the store. 

5. I can't believe this -three gay 
men and none of us brought hair spray. 

4. Do you think you'd respect women if you weren't gay? 
3. That's "Mr. Faggot" to you! 
2. Oh my god -Notre Dame is here! 
1. We're here! We're queer! Our parents think we're studying! 
AMY NICKNISH, 

We have had a blast for the past six weeks and we're looking forward to more great times! Best of luck at Boston U. We'll miss you. Love, Russ and Chippa 
Dear Mom and Dad Schropp, 

Thank you for the four most incredible years of my life. I could have never made it this far without both of you. I love you. 
Your daughter, Marguerite 
Hey-

Your Ho, Schroppwoman, Cavanagh and Gorman have to leave now. But the party will never end! 
Love, Me 

Charles, Always remember that quality 
means more than quantity. I have a lot of good memories from these last few weeks to keep with me over the summer. I'll miss you. 
Love, Amy 
To the women of 34/7 London Spring '92: 
To Ann, !leave rice sculpting recipes and a great year out west. To Andrea, a pillow from Cong and a rug to rip up with all those dance moves. To Margaret, a mean 'ol piece 'o paper. To Bukolt, a weekend in Wales with Kenneth Branagh. To Tini, a bottle of Woodpecker and a hot date. To Soks, a tulip from Regents Park. I'll miss you guys! 
Love, Mad Dog 
LAST WILL & TESTAMENT OF SBOX: 
I leave the following to the following Cheeseballs: MCV, a box of lenders; JE, a cactus; AMM & EH, Del Leppard; ST, a damned banana place; JH, whipped creme; AL, closed for grooming; LH, who's your daddy!; and to SR, senior frog & a deck of cards. Enjoy the gilts and good luck! 
To Each of Our 242 Accounting Graduates, Wishes for Continued Success! The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Accountancy, College of Business Administration. 
TONY GENTINE 
Congratulations on your upcoming marriage. You better not run away from the wedding the way you ran away from us Wednesday night. 
THE GUYZ 
(Group hug, everybody) 
MONICA, 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY &GOOD LUCK. I'LL MISS YOU. 
LOVE, SHIRLEY 
To Marty..these 4 yrs have been great, I wouldn't trade them at all. Nicole-no more probation, now you're the queen of the school. Veronica-you always gave the best advice. Beth-I will learn E-mail for you. Pat-again that reminder that looks don't coorelate w/age. Chip­free drinks with every engagement. Jen B.-we'll be fantastic MDs. Congrats Rock! To Perry and Gibb and everyone ..! couldn't mention..what an experience it's been. Trish -wait for me and I'll be there. Adios N.D. -I loved every minute. Hasta Ia vista.. Rich 
**SENIORS** 
LIMITED EDITION WATERCOLOR LITHOGRAPH 
$10 
Available at LaFortune Info Desk and at the Graduation Dance tonight 9-1. 
Proceeds go to the family of Todd Broski 
•*SENIORS*' 
TO THE SIEGFRIED HALL CLASS OF 1993: 
THANKS FOR ALL THE TIME, ENERGY AND TALENT YOU'VE GIVEN OVER THE PAST FOUR YEARS. FAREWELL AND BEST WISHES FOR THE FUTURE. 
SIEGFRIED WILL MISS YOU. 

page 24 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
~~ SAINT MARY'S ~~ 
----~ SENIOR PROFILES ~ 


SMC Class of '93 leaves hard spots to fill 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
When it's all said and done, the Belles' Class of 1993 seniors ·Nere a crop of leaders and their spots will be hard to fill in the future. 
Kristin Crowley 

"Whatever season I was in, that was the sport I dedicated myself to," said Crowley. 
Crowley started all four years as a soccer forward and a bas­ketball guard. She was co-cap­tain for soccer and basketball and was co-president of the Student Athletic Council. 
In basketball, she was nation­ally ranked No. 3 in three-point shooting percentage by the NCAA Division III. She shot 50 percent from the floor. She was the second highest scorer on the team{286 points) and was the floor leader. 
Crowley was nominated for Athlete of the Year. She re­ceived the Coaches' Award in Soccer and was voted MVP in 
basketball. She also won this year's 1992-93 Director's Award. 
According to Jo-Ann Nester, director of athletics and recre­ation, Crowley came back after two knee surgeries. 
"She's a real leader. She came back from near career-ending injuries,"added Nester. 
For Crowley, two moments stand out in her mind from her playing soccer and basketball. Beating St.Joseph College in soccer at St.Joseph's because they are Division II, she said. It was a tough battle; a physical game this past year. 'Tm going to miss Stacy Winget and Megan Dalsaso. They are good friends and co-captains with me." 
In basketball, it was defeating Bethel College in overtime. Crowley had her career high in that game. Her junior year, they beat St. Francis in the last five seconds of the game. "The Cougers missed a free throw. A Belles' forward got the ball, passed to me and I shot from the top of the key. Hit the three­pointer and we won,"she said. 
"The whole senior year will stick out in my mind. I'll miss everyone basically but mostly the seniors like Kim Holmes and Julie Snyder," Crowley added. 
Crowley will be going to Her­mosa Beach, Calif. this summer and taking physics at U.C.L.A. She plans on taking the MeAT's in September and then applying to medical or graduate schools. 
"It's been an excellent four years. The whole attitude of go­ing to an all-women's college benefitted me for going into the 'real world'." 
"I'm very happy with my de­cision to go here. I'm not afraid to go out in the real world. I'm ready. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's been a positive four years at Saint Mary's." 
Karen Lorton 
"Kristin {Crowley) and I are moving to California after grad­uation. I want to work some­where in sports marketing. We hope to have a good time for a few years and then move back to the Midwest," said the busi­ness administration major. 
As co-captain of the volleyball team, she was selected to the NCAA Division III All-Regional Team. Lorton was also selected to the All-Tournament Team at the Baldwin-Wallace tourna­ment. She was ranked No. 1 in the nation in Division III in hit­ting percentage and No. 2 in the nation in kills per game. 
Lorton set two new school records in hitting percentage and kills per game. She also set new school records with 1243 total kills, kill average, total hit­ting attempts, hitting percent­age, .963 serve percentage and total digs. 
Lorton started in every game while playing both front row and back row. She is also co­president of the Student Ath­letic Council. 
According to Nester, Lorton was MVP in volley ball this year. She also was a finalist in the voting for Division III NCAA All-American. Lorton was honored with the 1992-93 Athlete of the Year Award. 
As a freshman, Lorton re­members playing a tough Divi­sion II St. Joseph College. Ac­cording to her, the Belles were 
suppose  to  lose  but  they  
wouldn't give up.  
"We  came  in  there  and  

thought we'd get our butts wiped off the floor. We took them to five games and won," said Lorton. 
Stacy Winget 
"She's a four-year starter and a very talented player. She has always given alot to the pro­gram," Nester said. 
This year, Winget was the second highest scorer on the team. She also was one of the tri-captains in an overall season of 10-3-1. 
For the 1991-92 season, Winget was the second highest scorer and second highest in assists. "It's hard. It's a difficult time commitment," said Nester. 
see PROFILES page 25 


Friday, May 14, 1993 The Observer page 25 
SAINT MARY'S "~ 
------SENIOR PROFILEs------~



--S¢ 
Profiles 
continued from page 24 
"I'm moving back to Saint Louis and will be in-between jobs. Working at home either in financial services or as a sales representative,"said Winget. 
"I've played soccer since I was five years old. I started when I went to private grade schools. Soccer is big in the Saint Louis community." 
"I'm not going miss it because I can play in women's leagues in Saint Louis. I will miss the Saint Mary's community. The team was close. I'm gonna miss everyone and representing the school," Winget added. 
Cheryl Fortunak 
Fortunak was co-captain and was voted MVP for track. She was a Golden Spike Winner at the University of Chicago meet. 
Her indoor school records in­clude running the BOOm in 2:33 during 1990. Also in 1990, she set a 4:12 outdoor school record in the 4x400m relay along with Heidi Finniff, Beth Seymour and Leslie Tedraw. 
For 1991, Fortunak was part of a 14:17 record-breaking distance medley relay which in­cluded Sara Gildea, Jackie Buckley and Nicole Hill. This past year, Fortunak set a B'6" high jump record with Tina Gruber. 
"I had tendinitis in my knee which made me drop back from the BOOm to concentrating on the 400m," said Fortunak. 
Fortunak plans on staying in this area and in the future, she wants to coach track. "I have an interview next Tuesday. I would like to work in an in­vestment company or in busi­ness management," she added. 
According to Fortunak, run­ning on the track team has al­ways helped her keep things in perspective at school. "It's helped me develop leadership skills. It's been alot of fun. 
Natalie Kloepfer 

Kloepfer, a biology major and chemistry minor, served as the captain of the tennis team. She has played in the top six in ten­nis singles and top three in doubles for four years. Accord­ing to Nester, Kloepfer received the Coaches' Award this year. 
For Kloepfer, going to Kansas City her freshman year, for the nationals will always be a high­light of her tennis career. "We had so much team unity,"she added. 
Kloepfer is a Presidential Scholar who has maintained High Academic Honors (3.B or better) for four years. She has served on the Biology club, Stu­dent Athletic Council and the Saint Mary's College Academic Council. 
"Hopefully I'll be working in a hospital for a year. Next, I'm going to reapply to graduate school for genetic counseling," she said. 
Jenny Danahy 

Danahy has been co-captain for the past three years of the swimming and diving team. According to Nester, Danahy set the school record in the 200 breast stroke. Danahy is a business major with concentra­tions in marketing, manage­ment and finance. 
''I'm going to work for LaSalle Bank in Chicago," said Danahy. "I had to miss alot of practices to find this job. It turned out really well." 
Dear Seniors ofZahm, The past four years, sadly enough, have come and gone. However, the memories that both you and the remaining residents of this hall share with one another will last long after you depart from here, your home away from home. Each one ofyou has made a lasting impression upon this university, this hall, and those who proudly refer to themselves as Zahmbies. From the time of Freshman Orientation and those nerve-wracking days and nights spent feeling the wrath of ODIN, through four years ofhome football weekends (and numerous pre-game festivities, for those ofyou who can remember them), ZITS, the Decade Dance, SYR's, community gatherings for prayer at Mass in our chapel, Zahm athletic contests, late night conversations with Keenan and Cavanaugh Halls, and other unique activities that are not fit for print, and now concluding with this final and most special weekend, you have been a part of an experience that is unique to Notre Dame and Zahm Hall. We want to thank you for gladly sharing these special moments with us. Through these moments and your presence in our everyday lives, you have provided us with an example to follow as we continue on our own paths toward commencement. All the advice, time, memories, and fun that you shared will remain with us along the way and long afterward. All of us hope that as you embark on the rest ofyour lives, you_leave here full of those same memories. We wish you the best ofluck in all ofyour future pursuits, that success and happiness may be found wherever you go. Please remember where you came from and that you will always have a home within the cozy confines of Zahm. Be proud ofwho you are and what you have achieved thus far. May God bless you. Love, The Men of Zahm P.S. SEE YUH!  

--------------~---------------~----------------~------­
page 26 The Observer Friday, May 14, 1993 
Irish athletes looking to qualify for NCAAs 

By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It will be an end for some and a beginning for others when the men's and women's track teams travel to the Illini Twilight Meet tonight in Champaign, Illinois. 
For most of the athletes on both teams, tonight's meet will mark the end of the season, but for others it is just the first step on the road to the NCAA Championships. 
"The runners finishing up their season are just trying to 
end with their best time," said sophomore distance runner Stefanie Jensen. "But some other runners are looking to improve their times enough to qualify for the NCAAs." 
Jensen is one of those run­ners. Already a provisional qualifier in the 5000 along with classmate Sarah Riley, Jensen will use tonight's meet as a warmup for next week's Santa Monica Distance Classic, where she and Riley will look to solid­ify a spot in the NCAA field. Ri­ley will sit out tonight's meet to 

Photo Courtest of Notre Dame Sports Information Co-captain Todd Herman will look to solidy a spot in the NCAA Championship field in today's meet. 
To OUR SON, TOM BALLYMACELLIGOIT TO NoTRE DAME ou LAc THE DREAM CONTINUES: LovE, MoM AND DAD 

rest up for nexi week's race. 
Both Jensen and Riley have run a 16:42, three seconds better than the NCAA's provi­sional qualifying time. But the automatic qualifying time is 16:25, so they would like to shave a few seconds off their time to improve their chances of joining the field in New Or­leans on June 2. 
"We need to run in the low 16:30s to ensure a spot in the NCAAs," Jensen said. 
Emily Husted also has an outside chance to reach the NCAAs. She remains eight seconds off the provisional pace in the 1500, and a great race tonight could get her into the 
Photo Courtest of Notre Dame Sports Information 
field. 

Senior John Coyle will lead the Irish distance runners in today's meet at
On the men's side, the field 
the University of Illinois. 

events dominate the NCAA hopes. John Smerek and Stuart 
Tyner each have a shot to join the field in the discus, while Todd Herman is already a provisional qualifier in the high jump. 
John Coyle and Nate Ruder will anchor the distance events and John Cowan will look to continue his assault on the steeplechase competition. 
The men's team is coming off an impressive second-place finish in the Central Collegiate Championships, where Cowan took the steeplechase crown and Coyle and Ruder eclipsed the competition in the 5000 meter run. 
GOOD LUCK 
TO THE 
CCJ1A$$ ([))JF 
11~~3 
from the 
ND CLUB OF ATLANTA P.O. BOX 11772 ATLANTA, GA 30355 (404) 242-4487 
Good luck and Good dreams to the Seniors of Pasquerilla West. 
We'll miss you! 


-Pasquerilla West Community-
FOR THE SIX OUT OF TEN PEOPLE .~~-WHO DIDN'T VOTE FOR
d 

~~~~~)~~J'"'~
~ -~ "Not sanillce fo1 
/ ;~ lhe Middle Clas.~ ~ ~> \, sacrifice of the 
?,& ·~ y· Middle Class." 
..;: ;~~-, , 
I,~~}
\, .. ',.~ I:' or-.._.~~~ ~ ·---.
~~<:-0~ ·~ ;: ~-. ~./,IJ I '\\
01 
11


0 ~ rt~,.y.r ~~ 
/~a i.;.._.·. )1 ~,·
··yj~.~~'); ~ i\, · 
1 

~-.. '• ) ; ~ \ 
J
t·<~·~·,;.l;~ ~ ,1·.-~·l~~v~~-~~· -~lf./ 
:..,-: ·! -~! ·""7,~. {' ·:;,.,\ -,\':.. 11:--1
-f. ..,,. :, ;i_ 'l}n:} .~;':'/ 1 1, \· ·, --~ 
· · .. r, .. ·-~ .. ' · '\\ \ .!" 
. I 

BILL CLINTON 
Yours for only $8, plus $3 shipping and 
h dl. 
an mg. 
( R I I $1 0)
egu ar y • Use the order 
form below or call collect 219/287-6730 and say you saw it in The Observer. 

-------------------------------0 R 0E R FORM-------------------------­TO: Maingate Enterprises*Box 915*Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name/Company/Organization 
Street/P.O. Box  City, State, Zip  
Quantity  
 
 
Large  Xlarge  XXLarge  






