r--------~ -~----------~~-------~­
Health nut 

Lyons Hall Junior Emily Comer stretches out under the Lyons Hall Arch before exercising. Jogging remains a popular activity during the last days of summer on campus. 
Saint Mary's enacts smoking restrictions 
----------~---~ 
Tuition costs rise for SMC 
Residential costs for Saint Mary's College stu­dents will increase by six percent this year due to a general increase in operating expenses, according to Dan Osberger, the vice-president for fiscal affairs. 
"Our single biggest operating expense is com­pensation which includes salaries, wages, and employee benefit costs," said Osberger. 
The college is also trying to improve the quali­ty of food service, said Osberger, and the new meal plan, Carte Blanche, adds to student ex­penses. 
Student residential costs are about the same as other private institutions across the country, according to Osberger. 
"The college should expect a tuition and fee increase in the 94-95 school year," Osberger said. 
While students were not pleased with the rise in tuition, they also said that they would not want to sacrifice the programs or activities in­volved. 
"Every college across the nation is increasing their tuition and I don't feel that Saint Mary's is any different, but the amount we pay is high enough already," said Jennifer Collins a Holy 
Cross Hall senior. Collins, who worked in the admissions depart­ment this summer, said that she knows that the 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
Following a national trend towards restricting smoking, Saint Mary's has put a new smoking policy into effect. 
The Board of Governance 


proposed the idea to the stu­areas of each residence hall. dent body last year through stu­•Smoking is prohibited in all dent surveys, according to other public areas in the resi­Director of Resident Life, Sherri dence halls, including but not Crahen. The new policy is as limited to laundry rooms, bath­follows: rooms, elevators stairwells, 
•Smoking is permitted in stu­hallways, and lounges. dent rooms, as agreed upon by •Smoking is prohibited in the roommates and the vending Library, Science Hall, Haggar 
Students achieve dining hall improvements 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
Changes made in the Notre Dame North and South dining halls are the result of student suggestions, surveys and an advisory group of about 30 stu­dents, according to David Prentkowski, director of Notre Dame Food Services. 
Representatives from every dorm and a commissioner from student government offered student input to dining hall efforts to improve food service. 
Improvements in both dining halls offer a daily grill line which serve hamburgers and french fries and will soon offer chicken sandwiches. Dining halls offer orange juice at all meals, as well as fruit carts with six fruits, various frozen yogurt toppings, and new spice racks include ten spices for stu­dents who wish to season their own food. 
North Dining Hall offers a daily restaurant-style pasta bar and South Dining Hall has a new daily hot food bar. 
Aside from the choices of foods, hours have been changed, as well. The deli will be open seven days a week, and operating hours have been extended. 
A "grab and go" box lunch is now available to students who do not have time for lunch and can be picked up between 7 
a.m. and 7 p.m. 
Changes were made in the different dining halls in order to maximize improvements using the facilities already in place, according to Prentkowski. 
So far, student response to the changes has been very favorable, but students agree that more changes are desired. 
"I like the changes. The fruit salad is great, but why do they put beans in the Italian pasta 
see DINING I page 4 

College Center and administra­lowed in the Library basement tive areas in LeMans Hall and and student center," said senior Madeleva Hall (except in indi­Rhonda Kokot. "Even though I vidual offices). respect the others who don't 
According to Board of want it around, I think it's Governance President Mary ridiculous." Beth Wilkinson, the results of Kokot added that smoking in last year's student surveys were the room is a difficult subject if overwhelmingly in favor of the different roommates do not proposal. smoke. 
"Around 70 to 75 percent of But for s_ophomore Elizabeth the student body supported the Luedtke, the policy is a wel­proposed policy," said come change on campus. Wilkinson. 
There isn't total support for "I think it's a good policy. the restrictions, though. Most smokers I know usually go "I think it should still be al-outside to smoke," she said. 

see TUITION I page 4 
Book Fair offers cheap alternative 
By MICHAEL O'HARA News Writer 
Providing an alternative to the bookstore, sales at The Book Fair begin today at 3 
p.m. in Stepan Center. 
Originally a campaign promise of candidates Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellmann, the sale has materialized under their administration. 
According to Heather Arnold, Intellectual Life exec­utive coordinator, The Book Fair will provide "an alterna­tive to the high prices of the bookstore." 
Books were turned in last spring by interested sellers who set their own prices. Stored over the summer, near­ly 6,000 books will be on sale today through Friday. 
"There should be a larger selection and it should be more convenient for the students," Arnold said. 
A wide range of subjects should be available from sci­ence to arts and letters, with a range of prices that should be "significantly lower" than the bookstore, she said. 
The hours of the sale are from 3-9 p.m. today and Thursday, and 2-6 p.m. on Friday. 
All books not sold should be picked up by the seller on Monday from 5-9 p.m. Those items not picked up will be donated to charity. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September I, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Television is 
no place for censorship 
Television watchdogs -------­are going Fox hunting. 
Fox, arguably the most liberal of the four net­works, has been a trail­
blazer in progressive pro-Michael O'Hara gramming from Married Assistant Viewpoint with Children to In living Editor Color. Yet both, par­ticularly In living Color, have pushed the thresh­old of decency and chal­lenged the network cen­
sors. 
And Fox is not the only network being care­fully scrutinized for its choice of programming. Every network on television is facing chal­lenges from Washington and outcries from cit­izens who have taken it upon themselves to regulate and censor what we watch. 
One of the leading attackers the networks have to face is Rev. Donald Wildmon, leader of the American Family Association. The often ultra-conservative Rev. Wildmon has taken it upon himself to cleanse the airways for every remote control-wielding viewer. His predatory and somewhat vicious tactics have included pressuring sponsors to withdraw advertising dollars to denouncing programs, sight-unseen. New to his list is the unprerniered NYPD Blue. He, as well as other critics have deemed this program too racy for primetime viewers. 
What confuses me is this: Who empowered this man to tell me what I can or cannot watch? The Rev. Wildmon has his Constitutional right to voice his opinion on what he feels is right, as I have mine. But don't I also have the right to choose what I want to watch from a full array of selections, instead of from pre-selected group of pure and inoffensive programming? 
If the networks and advertisers attempt to appease every group who ftnds some offensive line or scene in a program, no programs will be left. We may be left staring at a blank screen. As networks are forced to pull show after show off the air, we may be left with PBS and The Weather Channel. 
At least for a short period of time. 
PBS will be forced because of naked pygmies on Nova or because of Mister Rogers' alleged drug problem, while the Weather Channel would most likely fall victim to some viewer who found the apparently phallic shape of Florida overtly inappropriate or offensive. 
Where does this put us? 
One of the primary concerns of the watch­dog groups is the effect too much sex and vio­lence on television is having on today's chil­dren. The responsibility for this lies not with the networks, but with the parents and fami­lies. Every television set is equipped with a channel changer and a power button. If a parent finds some program that he or she deems inappropriate for his or her children, perhaps one or the other of these magical devices should be used. If a child watches too much violence or sex on television, the fault is with the parenting, not with the programming. 
As Peggy Charren, president of Action for Children's Television, said, "I think that cen­sorship is worse than any of the junk on TV today. Parents can turn off TV programs they deem objectionable, but they can't turn on what's missing." 
Parents, take control of your remote con­trols, and I'll control mine. I want my MTV. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production Bevin Kovalik Cheryl Moser Emily Hage MarkZito 
Sports Accent Jen Manen Kenya Johnson Viewpoint Graphics 
Rolando de Aguiar Brendan Regan Lab Tech Kyle Kusek 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday oca:pr during own and vacuion periods. The Observer is a membc:r of rhe Auociared Press. All repmducrion righrs are reserved. 

Iraq, U.N. begin high-level talks 
United Nations 

Iraqi experts and U.N. officials began high-level talks Tuesday which Iraq hopes will lead to lifting the 3-year­old embargo on its oil sales. Western diplomats foresaw no early lifting of the sanctions, saying Iraq had failed to satisfy Gulf War cease-ftre terms and other U.N. resolu­tions. "There is very little inclination among members of the Security Council to declare Iraq a good citizen," said American U.N. Ambassador Madeleine Albright, council president in August. She declined to tell reporters what Iraq must do to escape the embargo. A news blackout was expected to be imposed on the ftrst round of talks, sche~­uled to last until at least Sept. 9. A second round IS planned later in Baghdad. The head of Iraq's 15-member delegation, Gen. Amer Mohammed Rashid, boss of Iraq's military-industrial commission, met with Rolf Ekeus, the Swedish disarmament expert who heads the U.N. Special Commission. On Monday, he told reporters he hoped the talks would lead to lifting the oil embargo, but declined to make predictions. The Special Commission was created under the Gulf War cease-ftre to eliminate Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, monitor defense industries and en­sure Iraq never acquires nuclear, chemical, biological or long-range ballistic weapons. 
Algeria executes seven Islamic extremists 
ALGIERS, Algeria 

Seven Islamic extremists were executed at dawn Tuesday for a terrorist bombing at the Algiers airport a year ago that killed nine people and injured 123. The Justice Ministry made the announcement but gave no details. Executions in this North African country are nor­mally by ftring squad. Though three anti-terrorist courts established in February to cope with the Muslim funda­mentalist insurgency have meted out 232 death penalties, the airport bombers were the ftrst to be executed. The seven men were sentenced to death May 26. Three other death sentences in the bombing were commuted to life imprisonment. The fate of two other defendants who never appealed their death sentences was not known. Twenty-six others sentenced to death in absentia remaii~ at large. The explosion that tore thro:ugh Ho:uan Boumediene Airport on Aug. 26, 1992, remams the smgle bloodiest act of violence in the 20-month-old insurgency by fundamentalist extremists. Those executed Tuesday included Hocine Abderrahim, said to be the mastermind behind the bombing, and former special secretary to Abassi Madani, jailed leader of the Salvation Front. 
North expected to campaign for Senate 
WASHINGTON 

Oliver North, a pivotal ftgure in the Iran-Contra scandal, 
says he won't discuss the arms-for-~ostages affa~ durin_g 
his expected campaign for a Republican senatonal nomi­
nation next year. In an interview pub­
lished in Wednesday's editions of The 
Washington Post, North said the public 
no longer cares about Iran-Contra. "I 
think most people accept the fact that 
this issue is behind us," the former 

~ White House national security aide told 

,,, the newspaper. "It's certainly behind ~ me," he said. "I have acknowledged the mistakes that I made. I don't know how anybody could just sit there, idle, doing nothing, with Americans being held in terrible conditions ... I think the purposes, the goals, the objectives were noble." While he ~as. ~ot declared his candidacy for the Senate from VIrgmia, North has endorsed a group seeking to draft him for the GOP nomination. If nominated next year, North would run for the seat now held by Democratic Sen. Charles Robb, who is expected to face a primary challenge from Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder. 
.... 

INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, Aug. 31 


NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 1. Unes separate high temperature zones lor the day. 60s 
FRONTS: 
..............-.....__._ -.Ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Woathet', Inc. 
Hurricane Emily surges through the Outer Banks island chain and heads north with strong winds around its eye at up to 115 mph. See related story page 3. 
Man wanted in Indiana sentenced 

VICTORIA, British Columbia 
A man who has been on the run from U.S. authorities for more than a decade received a 30-day jail sentence Tuesday. Craig David Rihl, wanted in Indiana on drug charges since 1981, pleaded guilty to possessing a forged Canadian passport and to impersonation. Crown counsel Michael Mark told provincial court Judge Michael Hubbard that on June 6, the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation told Royal Canadian Mounted Police _in Ottawa about Rihl receiving mail in Eldorado, Ontano. The RCMP discovered that Rihl's mail was forwarded to an address in the Victoria suburb of Saanich. Rihl faces a deportation hearing. 
Medical school applicants hit record high 
CHICAGO 
A record number of people applied to U.S. medical schools this year, defying warnings that medicine has lost its appeal and bearing witness to a tough job market for college graduates. There were 42,625 applicants, 60 per­cent more than five years ago, the Association of American Medical Colleges said Tuesday. The recent increase in medical applicants doesn't jibe with the dis­satisfaction many doctors express about medicine today and with the specter of government regulation under health care reform, said a report on medical education in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. The previous peak was 42,621 in 1974, said Dr. Robert Petersdorf, president of the Washington-based Association of American Medical Colleges. That "was due to what I like to call the Vietnam bulge, mainly white males who would rather apply to medical school than get shot at in Da Nang," Petersdorf said Tuesday by tele­phone. He said he doesn't know the reason for the recent increase. But, he said, it continues a trend that began after the 1987 stock market crash, when aspiring profes­sionals began looking for a safer fteld than business. 
ti'i a~rn1 0~§l-Q ~u 
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAJN  T .STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
v. A...a.t.d p,_.  
TEMPERATURES  Chicago Columbus  73 94  63 73  Madrid Minneapolis  84 72  57 84  
Dallas  90  n  Moscow  54  45  
City  H  L  Indianapolis  88  70  New York  85  71  
Arlington Hts.  90  72  Jerusalem  97  73  Pans  73  54  
Atlanta  95  74  London  68  52  Philadelphia  90  71  
Boston  87  70  LosAngeies  82  65  Rome  86  73  

Wednesday, September 1, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
Emily passes Outer Banks, heads North 
By ESTES THOMPSON 
Associated Press Writer 
MANTEO, N.C. 

Surging seas crashed onto the fragile Outer Banks island chain Tuesday as Hurricane Emily slowly brushed by with wind whistling around its eye at up to 115 mph. 
"The house is shaking terri­bly from the wind and waves. Water is pouring in every­where, from cracks in the doors and windows and from the roof," Irene Nolan said from her home in the tiny seaside vil­lage of Frisco, where she rode out the storm. 
"If it weren't so fascinating to see what's happening, I'd be terrified," she said. 
The center of the hurricane 
got as close as about 20 miles 
due east of Cape Hatteras late 
Tuesday afternoon, and the eye 
wall -the region of strongest 
wind around the calm eye ­
moved over Hatteras Island, 
said Bob Sheets, director of the National Hurricane Center. No part of the eye had crossed land, however. The eye had grown to 45 miles wide Tuesday evening. 
The National Weather Service office in Buxton recorded sus­tained wind of 58 mph with gusts to 98 mph. The Diamond Shoals light tower 14 miles southeast of Cape Hatteras had sustained wind of 94 mph with gusts to 106 mph before in­struments there stopped trans­mitting data. 
Farther north, hurricane warnings were in effect to Cape Henlopen, Del., while heavy surf caused minor flooding along the southern shore of New York's Long Island, where 20,000 people on Fire Island were ordered to evacuate. 
But the brush with the Outer 
Banks could turn out to be 
Emily's closest encounter with 
land. Forecasters were expect­
ing the hurricane to skirt the 
Mid-Atlantic Coast on Tuesday 

Welcome Back ND 
•Now 
over 5,000 CD's in stock 

•Persona/listening 
stations 

•Computerized 
look-up system 

•Up 
to $5 cash for your CD's 

•Cash, 
check, Visa, Mastercharge, Discover 


4219 Grape Road 
Hours: Man -Sat 1 0 -9 Sun 12-6 
night; then turn to the north­east sometime Wednesday and veer offshore, sparing the Northeast its worst fury. 
Late Tuesday afternoon, how­ever, Sheets said a computer model showed "it might hold it in closer to the coast a little longer than we anticipated." 
The storm was passing the Outer Banks as a full moon tide rose toward a peak at about 8:15p.m., and the weather ser­vice office at Cape Hatteras reported flooding over the thin barrier beaches from both the ocean and Pamlico Sound. 
The storm surge was ex­pected to be as high as 8 to 9 feet, and ocean swells were reaching 15 feet along the coast, the weather service said. 
Tens of thousands of resi­
dents and tourists had fled the 
Outer Banks, the chain of nar­
row, low-lying sandy islets off 
the North Carolina coast. To the 
north, in Virginia, a swimmer 
was missing in heavy surf. The 
Virginia National Guard was on 
alert and residents of some 
low-lying areas wre urged to 
consider leaving. 
"The waves are incredible," 
said Finis Craft II, a clerk at 
Blackbeard's Lodge on 

Ocracoke island. The owners left but he stayed behind, watching the storm from the safety of a third-floor suite. 
At 7 p.m., the center of the hurricane was estimated to be about 30 miles east-northeast of Capt Hatteras, where the Outer Banks extended farthest to sea, or near 35.5 north lati­tude and 75.1 west longitude. 
· The storm, which had been moving generally toward the northwest earlier in the day, had curved toward the north. Its forward motion speeded up to nearly 13 mph, up from 9 mph earlier Tuesday. 
Sheets estimated maximum sustained wind speed around the eye at 115 mph, extending outward nearly 35 miles, as the storm gathered energy from the warm Gulf Stream offshore. But the strongest winds were east of the eye, away from shore. 
Military aircraft and ships had been moved out of the area. The Navy moved about 1,800 people from its Dam Neck Fleet Combat Training Center in Virginia Beach, Va., near the ocean after sand­bagging vulnerable areas and taping windows. 

Buyyour books at: 

Stepan Center 
WedneJday, September 1 from3-9 ThurJday, September 2 from 3-9 Friday, September 3 from 2-6 


Football mania 

If you see news happening, call The 
Notre Dame seniors Brett Bauer, Becky Cordes, Melissa McPike and Lisa Vierhile pass the time while 
Observer at 631-7471 and let us know.
camping out for football tickets in the hope of obtaining good seats. 

Name 
continued from page I 
bar? You can't mix Italian and Mexican. It just ain't right," said Jennifer Cleary, a Howard Hall junior. 
"The variety of the food is much better. I think the only problem with the dining hall is it's way too crowded. The pasta bar the whole time is real decent but I wish we could eat whenever we want ... and have pancake nights too,"said Mark Varlotta, a Stanford Hall sophomore. 
PAss ALONG AN HEIRLOOM MORE VALUABLE THAN GOLD. 
LIFE. 
When you make a be­
quest to the American 
Hean Association, you're passing along a precious legacy. The gift of life. That's because your contri­bution supports research that could save your de­scendants from America's number one killer. 
To learn more about the Planned Giving Program, call us today. It's the ftrst step in making a memory that lasts beyond a lifetime. 

The dining hall will offer vari­ous ethnic foods, the library
Dining 
will exhibit works reflecting the multicultural theme, and the
continued from page 1 
library has agreed to display books on the study of multicul­her despite an attempt to keep turalism. Fashion shows and
group size at a minimum in music, a dance group form
order to promote discussion. · 
India and a jazz band from
Aside from educating the fac­New York are also scheduled in ulty, Multicultural Affairs has· 
hopes of educating students
had a busy summer preparing about the world around them. 
for its first multicultural week "This experience will allowin late October. Subtitled as them to grow personally and
"Possibilities for a Cultural 
intellectually, and that is what
Connection," it will include 
college is all about," Ramirezactivities spanning a variety of said.
backgrounds. 
At last Help came, and Help knew what to do. In times of emergencY-are you Help? If not, learn Red Cross first Aid where you work ­
or call your local chapter. 

T e server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors Business Editor Copy Editor Associate News Editors Typists 
Submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough by Wed., Sept. 1 or contact Meredith at 631-5323 as soon as osssible . 
~---~-~-­
Tuition 
continued from page 1 

College is trying to increase enrollment to defray costs. 
"I read that for a child born today it would cost $300,000 for them to complete college, there has to be a limit," Collins said. She said that a priority for the College must be to work on keeping the cost of tuition down while maintaining the quality of a Saint Mary's educa­tion. 
"My family has three kids in college (all private) and for us the increase is really a crunch on the family," said Tina Trzaska a Holy Cross Hall sophomore. "It's like they (the College) are not thinking about us and our families. They want more because they know we will pay more to go here." 
Trzaska said that it is getting
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 
Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
tougher and tougher for her and her family to find the money for Saint Mary's tuition each semester. 
"I can't say to my boss at work that I want a six percent increase this summer because my tuition is going up six per­cent this year," she said. 
Those students who were not hit hard by the increase still said that a priority of the College should be to keep costs down and limit increases over the next few years. 
"Granted the cost of living goes up, but I would like to see them (tuition and fees) stay the same during the next few years," said Monica Lizarraga, a Le Mans Hall sophomore whose tuition costs have remained stable because of an increase she received in grants and scholarships. 
Jennifer J/abrych contributed to this article. 

ATTENTION All BANDS!!! 
Notre Dame Sports Marketing is looking for bands --that's right campus bands -­who are interested in performing at men's and women's soccer and women's volleyball games. 
If you are interested in "shaking down the thunder" at any of these events, please contact Aimee in the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
~----------._.....,______ --~ ---...------:~ 
Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT pageS 

~ IRT' 


~ 
The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body 
Top Ten Reasons to Buy "The Shirt '93" 
10. It looks cool from the Blimp 
9. Its Cool ... huh ... huh... 
8. It makes the student section look like a giant 12TH Man 
7. One size fits all. 
6. We're not Northwestern. 
5. Prove on National TV that we are the best Student Body in the country. 
4. Aaron Taylor and Bryant Young su~:~:est it. 
3. Intimidation is cool. 
2. You won't have to worry about what to wear. 
1. All proceeds benefit charitable and student organizations. 
. ~~· 
. $.~
::1 ~­

All Proceeds Benefit Charitable and Student Organizations :;( g 

---__........--------.------------~-----~---­

The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 

Singing the blues 
Peter Wernau, a Cavanaugh Hall freshman, grooves to blues and jazz on his guitar yesterday afternoon on North Quad. 
Experts: Expect only mild economic Improvement 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The economy is sputtering along so far this year at a substantially weaker growth rate than in 1992, and the prospect, according to econo­mists, is for only mild improve­ment. 
The gross domestic product -the sum of all goods and ser­vices produced in the United States -advanced a lackluster 
1.8 percent in the April-June period to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $5.1 trillion, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. That followed a bare­ly perceptible 0.8 percent gain in the first quarter. 
The increases were slightly better than what the depart­ment reported a month ago ­
1.6 percent in the second quar­ter and 0. 7 percent in the first. But they're still far below what analysts were looking for when the year began, and they cast doubt on the strength of the momentum going into the sec­ond half of the year. 
"Our forecast for the second half is 2. 7 percent. ... It's our forecast and I'll live and die by it but I'm beginning to feel a lot less comfortable," said econo­mist Martin Regalia of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "It's becoming a hope as much as a forecast." 
The Clinton administration, too, is scaling back its projec­tions. Laura Tyson, the chair­woman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, has said that the administration could reduce its 1993 growth forecast from 3.1 percent to as low as 2.1 percent when it releases its midyear economic review on Wednesday. 
At a briefing Tuesday, she cited three factors to explain the economy's sluggishness: depressed commercial real estate, military spending cuts and slowdowns in the economies of major U.S. trad­ing partners. 
"This recovery is about half the speed of previous re­coveries," she said. 
However, she said low in­terest rates, which act on the economy with a delay, should soon start to help stimulate activity, particularly in housing. 
This year's languid growth offers a stark contrast to the relatively robust performance last year, when the economy expanded at a revised 5.7 per­cent rate in the fourth quarter, 
3.4 percent in the third, 2.8 percent in the second and 3.5 percent in the first. 
The 1992 revisions, along with other changes showing the 1990-91 recession was milder than thought, show that the economy, although still sub par, was better off during the presidency of George Bush than economists realized at the time. 
"All I can say about these revisions is 'Poor George!'," said economist Maury N. Harris of PaineWebber Inc. "The fact of the matter is the economy wasn't doing all that horribly. ... I guess that's the way the cookie crumbles." 
Economist Norman Robertson, an adjunct profes­sor at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said the revisions underscore the danger of fashioning gov­ernment programs to aid the economy in the short run. 
"It really makes the im­plementation of any kind of economic policy extremely haz­ardous in the sense that the numbers on which the policy are based are often wrong and subject to substantial revision," 
• 20 -30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 
• 
$5.50 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 


Clinton plans to 'reinvent' federal government with early retirement, buyouts, transfers, and retraining 
By RON FOURNIER plan could reduce the 2.1 mil­.Associated Press Writer lion-person non-postal federal work force by at least 100,000 WASHINGTON before 1995, the goal Clinton 
President Clinton's plan to set early this year. "It could "reinvent government" will exceed that number," said a offer early retirement, buyouts, senior White House official. transfers and retraining to An administration official thousands of federal workers involved in drafting Gore's who would no longer be needed report said the number of fed-in a streamlined, high-tech eral employees affected may be operation, officials said closer to 200,000. It was also Tuesday. unclear how much money Gore 
The National Performance expects to save with his plan, Review, headed by Vice although early estimates pro-President AI Gore under orders jected $10 billion in savings from Clinton, is designed to over five years. reshape the federal bureaucra-The details will be released cy by consolidating operations, next Tuesday at a news con-making government agencies ference with Gore, Clinton and compete with private firms and the Cabinet. The president will treating taxpayers like cus-go on the road for two days tomers. next week to promote the plan. 
The White House believes the Clinton also will flstablish thP 


!:If{'~ JIJ ~)~LAti•)} 
....... ' •• ""t.it..~ •• -~ • -~

,. • 
•• ---..1-.... . 
r·­

. ol' 
:./ .;;;:..~~· J ·~~\· .• ( ~ i Ii 
•. ~~. .•-..• • ..., _../:fi.:"o, 
,.:L~I,;'',tl .~-.......,.,..-:··===!'=m
;.1::::::::::::::::} 
ALL 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
PICNIC 
• "'i::;;::·· -:::··>·. 
• I • II 0 ) 
.:...1---:.:::-....._ J 
I .. ·.... 
( 1)'1< 
·~~ . Thursday, September 2 
. 
···--_,. • 5:00 -7:00 pm
1
!:r-:'"' .. .. 
.aLJ.b..e. 
Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences Community Center 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry FOG Residences Staff Graduate Students Union 
Families Welcome! 
President's Management Council to implement the rec­ommendations, according to an administration budget official familiar with the report. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The order will require each Cabinet secretary and agency head to name a chief operating officer, who then will sit on the council. 
The latest draft of the report recommends opening the gov­ernment printing operation to allow competition with the pri­vate sector, said the officials. The Government Printing Office, which gets almost all of the business now, is considered slower and more expensive than private operations. 
Agencies would be allowed to use private-sector printers. 

•II• t )~I 'I 
./--~.:::-... I 
I )'• I I 
\,_I -~ \···.' 
l. 
/ 
__ 1 

ol' • • ) .. 
~ u 

Maple Lane Barber Shop 
serving the Notre Dame community for over 32 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin's) 
272--6722 
• no experience necessary • real life experience 
Please join us for an informal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, September Ist 4:00-6:00p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center 
0 (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
0 
p~~ 
p~~ 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffinet (631-7241) 

Wednesday, September 1, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Israelis, Palestinians near agreement Haitian heads key role in 
By BARRY SCHWEID AP Diplomatic Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Emotion-charged Mideast peace talks reopened Tuesday with confident Palestinian and Israeli predictions that a his­toric agreement to establish Palestinian self-rule would be concluded within days. 
"That's a done deal," said a senior Israeli official. He told reporters the only remaining question was whether the accord would be signed by the heads of the Israeli and Palestinian delegations that opened an 11th round of talks here or other Israeli and PLO officials. 
"It's an agreement that stands on its own two feet," the official said. 
Moreover, Nabil Shaath, chief political adviser to PLO chair­man Yasser Arafat, said "we hope to hear very soon -­tomorrow or the day after" statements of "full mutual recognition" by Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. 
Israeli sources confirmed Arafat and Rabin would move toward an accommodation but said the announcement may be several days off. 
But the official said Israel "will not settle for anything that is less than 110 percent explicit" recognition of its na­tionhood and renunciation of terrorism by the Palestinian Liberation Organization. 
The PLO has agreed, mean­while, that 3,300 Jewish set­tlers would remain in Gaza with Israel responsible for their security. 
The timetable for mutual recognition was one of the sub­jects under discussion in Europe, where Israeli and PLO negotiators on Tuesday contin­ued the talks they had begun secretly earlier this year in Oslo. 
Negotiators here awaited the results. 
Norwegian officials, who.have played a key role in forging the accord, said the new location was a secret and three other meetings had been held in three in another European country, which they would not name. 
democratic government 
A senior Israeli negotiator 
said after a 90-minute meeting 
By DAVID BEARD 
with the Palestinians that 
Associated Press Writer 
Israel, whose government had 
already approved the agree­ment Monday, was now await­ing approval of the pact by the central committee of the PLO. 
"Now it's up to the PLO to respond in kind and to approve the agreement so that we may soon formalize it and sign it here in Washington," said Eytan Ben-Tsur. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, praising the ac­cord that will put the PLO in charge of day-to-day life in Gaza and in the West Bank city of Jericho as "a conceptual breakthrough," said the United States was prepared to provide financial assistance. 
But in the Arab world be­yond, and in Israel, there was anxiety and some bitter oppo­sition forming to the agree­ment. 
Many Israelis worried about giving Arafat a toehold on the West Bank, some 20 miles from SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 
Politics drove Louis Dejoie Jr. and his family from Haiti. Now politics is bringing him back as a key Cabinet member in a new government dedicated to democracy. 
On Tuesday he dawdled over breakfast with his wife in his exile home, spent some extra time with his son, saw the doc­tor and said goodbye to his buddies in Puerto Rico's Rotary Club. On Wednesday morning, Haiti's new commerce and industry minister returns to his homeland to help rebuild his devastated nation. 
"The last 23 months have been really the worst point in Haiti's history," Dejoie, 65, said from his San Juan home. 
He calmly lists the estimates of the carnage following the army's overthrow of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in September 1991: more than 1,500 Haitians killed from mili­deaths from malnutrition and disease resulting from the worldwide economic sanctions that followed the coup. 
Like Aristide's hand-picked new prime minister, Robert Malva!, who returned to Haiti on Tuesday after assuming the post the previous day, Dejoie has known persecution in a manner difficult for an American politican to imagine. Retribution followed his father's challenge, in the scan­dal-tainted 1957 presidential election, of Francois "Papa Doc" Duvalier and the tradi­tionally strong army. 
Duvalier consolidated his power by waging a seven-year killing spree of thousands of real or imagined political oppo­nents, including many support­ers of Louis Dejoie Sr. and members of Haiti's mulatto minority. 
The Dejoie family sought asy­lum in the Mexican Embassy in Haiti and made its way to Puerto Rico. While the Duvalier family kleptocracy bankrupted 

~ (Q)lf[Rl [E [D)#-\~ [E ~(Q) l f (C(Q) [lJ [Rl5) [E STUDENT FALL PASSES AVAILABLE NOW $50 GOOD THROUGH NOV. 15, 1993 FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425  Jerusalem, while militant Arabs tary repression. hundreds of Haiti, the younger Dejoie, anquestioned the Palestinians set­thousands driven underground agronomist, built up a pros­tling for less than a state at this and an estimated 10,000 perous construction companystage. in Puerto Rico. His wife, Ghislaine, said per­sonal success has never been enough for him. "He has always wanted to doThe Observer something more for his coun­try," she said at breakfast.is now hiring personnel After the fall of the Duvalier family dictatorship, Dejoiefor the following paid positions: revived his father's political party and finished a distant third to Aristide and to Marc Bazin in the 1990 presidentialAd Design Staff race. After the coup, he got death threats. At a political meeting Applicants should have experience with QuarkXPress Jan. 25, 1992, armed plain­and/or Aldus Freehand. For more information, clothes police burst in, killing call Stephanie Goldman at one man and ordering Dejoie to lay. face down on the floor. A631-7471. policemen then stomped on his bald head.  

The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


Welcome Back!

"on the campus" 


3M Sale! 


Scotchtm 
Glue Stick (white or purple) 2/$1.00 
Scotchtm Wallsaver Poster Tape $1.95 

Special hours: Tues. 9-6, Weds., Saturday 8-6 

Scotchtm Removable Mounting Squares .89ea. 


Thurs. & Fri. 9-7 

_j 
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 1, 1993 

Russian 
.troops leave Lithuania 
Associated Press 
VILNIUS, Lithuania 

Russia withdrew its last sol­dier from Lithuania on Tuesday, a pullout that the president said "was awaited and dreamed about" by his countrymen since 1940. 
Lithuania is the first Baltic nation to eject all former Soviet troops, who numbered more than 34,000 here a year ago. 
The last of about 2,400 para­troopers crossed out of Lithuania by train shortly after 8 p.m., President Algirdas Brazauskas announced to Parliament, as his words were carried by loudspeaker to an applauding crowd outside. 
"This day was awaited and dreamed about by more than one Lithuanian generation since 1940," Brazauskas said. 
Soldiers under Moscow com­mand arrived in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia shortly after Soviet dictator Josef Stalin absorbed the Baltic states in a secret deal with Nazi Germany in 1939. 
''I'm enjoying this," said Semetas Jonas, 71, standing in the crowd of about 200 outside Parliament. He said he saw the Russian troops when they came to Vilnius -"a depress­ing sight." 
A few Russian officers will remain in Lithuania to oversee removal of munitions from Russian bases. 
"In two or three weeks, all their work will be completed," Defense Minister Audrius Butkevicius said Tuesday. "Today there is not a single Russian military unit on Lithuanian soil." 
Russia's government was milking the pullout for its own political purposes. Its ambas­sador to Lithuania, Nikolai Abertasov, suggested that President Boris Yeltsin's hard­line opponents might not have been so kind. 
"It shows the Russian Federation, led by its current leaders, is going the way of democracy." Abertasov said. 
Russia still has about 15,000 soldiers in Latvia and 4,000 in Estonia. Both countries have welcomed Russia's pullout, and expressed hope for similar quick agreement with their governments. 
Lithuanian nationalists long labeled the troops occupiers. In January 1991, Soviet troops carried out a bloody crack­down on independence-minded governments in Lithuania and Latvia. 
Russia grudgingly agreed to the withdrawal after the Soviet collapse, but stopped the pull­out on Aug. 18, citing Lithuania's sudden demand for $146 billion in damages. The troops were scheduled to leave by the end of August. 
Yeltsin resumed the pullout Monday after agreeing with Brazauskas to separate negoti­ations on compensation. Brazauskas will go to Moscow in September to discuss repa­rations and other issues. 
The U.S. ambassador to Lithuania, Darryl Johnson, welcomed the pullout and said it now was up to Russia and Lithuania to capitalize on the goodwill. 
we are <>VlruuotiTl 
side to sign the age," Karadzic emerged from 
However, '"'"uJ":K' 

breakthrough has discussions on the of the republics. 
"No progress 
·on cease .u''""-'·=,u·· them. 
aide Nikola ·other provisions prisoner e?Cchangest(:lleplume hot line· be~ · '"""'"'"' government headquar~ Sarajevo and the uu:utau1• Serb base in nearby fil:st phone link since began nearly .17 
·ago. 


r·······································-,
i SEjNIOR~~s, i 
I I 
! I Now is the time to sign ! I 
!I 
!I 
I I I I 
Major religious leaders declare global ethic 
By DAVID BRIGGS Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Leaders of the world's major faiths have declared a global ethic that laments en­vironmental abuses, calls dis­armament the newest com­mandment and condemns sex­ual discrimination. 
The Declaration of a Global Ethic, a historic attempt to find values common to the world's religions, has been signed by 20 leaders of major faiths who are presidents of the 1993 Parliament of World's Religions. 
Signers range from the Dalai Lama, leader of Tibetan Buddhism, to the Rev. Wesley Ariarajah, deputy general sec­retary of the World Council of Churches, which represents most major Protestant denomi­nations. 
The document, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press, goes before a larger assembly of more than 200 spiritual leaders for their consideration beginning Thursday. They will be asked to sign it, but no other changes may be made, parliament offi­cials said. 

A list of the major signers will be made available at a for­mal ceremony Saturday. 
The statement affirms that a common set of core values are found in the teachings of reli­gion, and expresses hope "that the ancient wisdom of our reli­gions can point the way for the future." 
But the religious leaders reserved their harshest criti­cism for the sins of their own faiths in a world where up to two-thirds of armed conflicts invoke the name of religion. 
"Time and again we see lead­ers and members of religions incite aggression, fanaticism, hate and xenophobia -even inspire and legitimize violent and bloody conflicts .... We are filled with disgust," the state­ment says. 
up for your senior !I portrait! ! I 
I I I I 

!I when? Tuesday, August 31 through !I : Friday, September 3 : : I w-here? North and South Dining Halls : I !during meals for on-campus students, ! :and the information desk 10 an1 to 8 pm:
I I 
: for off-campus students. : 
I I I I I I 
: Portrait sittings will take place : 
I I 
1 Monday, September 6 through Friday, 1 
I I 
1 September 24 in 108 Lafortune. 1 
I I 
: Don't miss your only opportunity to : 
I h k I
I I

1 ave your sen~or portra~t ta en! 1 
L-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 
---~~­

Wednesday, September 1, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL page9 
Another volunteer killed by new hepatitis B drug Victim says 
By IAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press Writer 
A fifth volunteer died Tuesday from an experimental drug touted as a miracle cure for hepatitis B, beyond medical rescue even as scientists un­raveled the mystery of what went gravely wrong in a clinical trial. 
Agonizingly, the first clue was in plain sight a year ago, but researchers at the National Institutes of Health didn't know enough about how the drug worked to recognize what it meant, the study's lead scientist says. 
"Something terrible hap­pened and we missed it," Dr. Jay Hoofnagle said in an emo­tional interview describing the horror of realizing the drug was killing people months after they stopped takin. it. 
"The dreadful thing (is) wait­ing to see what will happen," he said, his voice trembling, be­fore learning of the most recent death. "I just hope we're over the worst." 
The drug Fialuridine, or FIAU, had shown great promise for fighting the hepatitis B virus, which can cause deadly cirrhosis and liver cancer. When dogs passed toxicity tests unharmed, the Food and Drug Administration approved FIAU for human trials. 
Too late, scientists would dis­cover that in humans, FIAU stealthily attacks the very building blocks of cells in livers, kidneys and nerves. 
Five people treated with FIAU have died of liver and kidney failure, despite liver transplants for three of them. On Tuesday, a 37-year-old woman suc­cumbed after two months in critical condition and two liver transplants at the University of Virginia Medica-l Center. One volunteer remains in serious condition there, and another is recovering from an Aug. 4 transplant at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. 
Additionally, Hoofnagle fears other antiviral drugs such as the AIDS drugs AZT and ddl, which are known to be toxic, may attack patients the way FIAU did. The first clue that FIAU was dangerous came in August 1992, when a man who had taken FIAU developed painful nerve damage. Paul Melstrom of Phoenix and 23 other volunteers participated in a 28-day NIH study of FIAU, from mid-April to mid-May. Almost four months later, Melstrom, 53, contracted se­vere neuropathy in his feet and legs. Another patient had minor neuropathy. 
"It was so obvious to me it was the FIAU," Melstrom said from Arizona. "There's nothing about my life that changed in 1992, but there was one hall­mark event. That was the tak­ing of the FIAU." 
But the NIH couldn't prove FIAU was to blame. Many things cause neuropathy, in­cluding alcohol. Melstrom is a recovering alcoholic and once had a bout with mild neuropa­thy. 
So the agency continued the trial this spring, giving the drug to 15 otherwise healthy hepati­tis patients for up to 11 weeks. Hoofnagle did warn volunteers beforehand that neuropathy was a po&sible side effect and tested them for symptoms. 
In early June, two volunteers developed neuropathy symp­toms and immediately stopped taking FIAU. By mid-month, they were hospitalized with liver poisoning, unrelated to their hepatitis but similar to the late toxicity Melstrom had experienced. 
Hoofnagle halted the trial. But the horror was just begin­ning. 
One by one, from June 16 through August, seven people fell ill with damaged livers, kid­neys and nerves as frustrated doctors and frightened fellow volunteers watched. 
Now, with five of the seven dead, the remaining eight pa­tients in the trial are being watched to determine if they escaped serious harm. 
What happened? This is Hoofnagle's theory: 
A virus cannot reproduce on its own, so it instead takes over a cell's DNA, the cellular blue­print that maps how each per­son's unique genes are con­tinuously reproduced. The virus uses the DNA to furiously repli­cate itself. 
In the trials, FIAU foiled the hepatitis B virus by forming a bogus link in a hepatitis-in­fected DNA chain, which stopped it from reproducing. 
But FIAU didn't stop there. It also tricked sub-units of the body's cells called mitochon­dria, the all-important engines that energize the cells. 
Mitochondria have their own DNA, which FIAU crippled just as it had done with hepatitis­infected DNA. This crippled DNA produced a second gener­ation of flawed mitochondria, which killed the cells dependent on them for energy. 


The right time. The right place. Blue chip. Green light State Farm processing equipment. You'll go State Farm is hiring. is one of America's leading insur­as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data ance companies. Through inno­You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or vative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your campus a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Placement Director about waiting for you in one of the larg­homeowners insurer, and one of State Farm today. est corporate data processing the top life insurance companies Or write Daryl Watson, Assistant facilities in the country. in the country. Director, Home Office Personnel 
There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. Relations, One State Farm Plaza, ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art data Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
defendant attacked Denny 
By LINDA DEUTSCH AP Special Correspondent 
LOS ANGELES One of the black men accused of beating white trucker Regi­nald Denny had threatened to "hit and kill people" because of Rodney King, and later hit Denny with a brick, a witness testified Tuesday. 
Gabriel Quintana also testified that defendant Damian Williams attacked him during the riots that broke out after four white policemen were ac­quitted of most charges in the beating of King, who is black. 
Williams, 20, and Henry Keith Watson, 28, are being tried on charges of attempted murder, assault and robbery for attacks on Denny and seven others at the South Central Los Angeles intersection where the riots began on April29, 1992. 
Quintana was the first witness to identify Williams as one of the attackers. He said Williams threw a brick at Denny's head and then "he started to dance." 
Quintana testified that he was working at a gas station near the intersection where trouble started and that he recognized Williams as someone who had come by before to ask for ci­garettes or take gas without paying for it. 
On the day of the riots, "He say, 'Today I'm going to hit and kill people,"' Quintana said. 
"He just said something about Rodney King," Quintana said when asked why Williams wanted to attack people. 
Asked to identify the defen­dant, he pointed to the counsel table and said, "He's here in the shirt and tie." 
Quintana, 22, delivered most of his testimomy through a Spanish interpreter, although he quoted the remark about hitting and killing people in both Spanish and in Williams' language, English. 
After the riot started, Quin­tana said, he left his cashier's booth and locked himself in a gas station restroom. But he said Williams and others un­screwed the hinges to the re­stroom door, dragged him out, beat him and pushed his head through the glass cashier's window. 
Williams' lawyer, Edi Faal, pointed out that Quintana never mentioned Williams' alleged threats to police. 
"During that conversation with Officer (Martina) Villalobos on July 15, 1992, you made no reference to someone may get killed, did you?" asked Faal. 
"No," the witness said. 
Quintana also acknowledged that he did not mention Williams' purported remark when he filed a stolen property report on July 7, 1992, and that the first time he men­tioned it was at a meeting with two prosecutors on May 13, 1993. 
Asked why he waited so long, Quintana said, "I don't know." 
Faal accused him of changing his testimony to help prose­cutors prove the attempted murder charge. 






VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Wednesday, September I, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Bwiness Manager  
Kevin Hardm;ln  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager.....•••.............Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor ....••........ Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager...................... Sreph Goldman  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  



The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaric:s, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viowpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viowpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
Nows/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  

JOHN WALTERS 
Whitey epitomizes school 
Friend reminisces over time in South Bronx 
AS YOU MAY K!VOW, WH/3N I 
NO, NO,
OH, MY GO/?,

WA~ Al-IV/5, I WAS 64Y, ANCJ 
R&LAX. YW 
TH/3

I HAC' TH& AlfJS VIRUS. 7lft<.3l5 
YOUM15AN 
WN'THAV& 
OTHER..

AR£ Tf).X} 7HIN65I a:FIN!Tf3t.Y 
IHAV&... 
THING?
AIP5. \

KNOW 5Q-!1S-\ 
HAV& .. . 

THING 
\ I

ABaJT.t 
"Never stage a musical on a Friday night in the South Bronx during a heatwave unless the auditorium has air conditioning and even then, it's not a very good idea." 
That, ladies and gentlemen, is not the first law of American theater, but rather the words of wisdom passed on to me by my former Upper East Side room­mate, Whitey. It's sound advice. 
The last Friday of April, 1990, was a night Whitey had been anticipating for months. Since before the previous Thanksgiv­ing, in fact. Whitey, who was in his second year teaching English at Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx (distin­guished alumni include Jamal Mashburn and Martin Scorsese, but not George Carlin, who was expelled during his sophomore year, nor Hegis Philbin, who was not), had also taken on the task of directing the school musical, West Side Story. 
The undertaking posed some unique problems. First of all, Cardinal Hayes is an all-boys school, and if you're familiar with the plot, West Side Story requires a few females. Second, Hayes is 97% non-Caucasian. Nobody wanted to be in the Jets. Finally, and this proved to be the largest hurdle to clear, Whitey was 23 years old and had no experience directing plays. 
Obstacles notwithstanding, there was the question of what Whitey, who resembles a some­what less physically imposing Lou Holtz, was doing in the South Bronx in the first place. Here was an upper-middle 
DOONESBURY 
class kid from Indy who had gone to Notre Dame, gotten the grades and been accepted into medical school. Pass Go, collect $200 and open up your prac­tice. That's the way you do it. See ya at the Michigan game. 
But somewhere along the way Whitey screwed up big time. He decided to defer from medical school just for a year and vol­unteer to teach at Hayes. Just for a year, you understand. But, as Robert Frost wrote. it's funny how way leads on to way, and so five years after graduat­ing, Whitey is still in the Bronx. 
As someone who has become a close friend of his in New York (although we were both class of '88 pre-meds who lived in Dillon, we did not share many Notre Dame moments), I have continually marveled at the concatenation of traumas that Whitey has borne while at Hayes, a series of which I have not seen outside of the Book of Exodus. And yet, because Whitey loves what he does so much, loves the students to whom all of his time is devoted, these students take on a hilari­ous tone. Alan Aida's character in the film Hannah and Her Sis­ters explains it thusly: "Tragedy plus time equals comedy." 
To that, I add Whitey's Postu­late: "If it has happened, it has happened to me." 
For example, the West Side Sauna debacle. Whitey's cast rehearsed for five months, which included putting in eight­hour Saturdays every weekend. Who could have prepared them, though, for the opening night­mare 95-degree curveball that 
God threw? In April? I remember talking to him about it the next day: "Was it really that bad, Whitey?" 
"John, the heat caused the students in the audience to completely lose control. You would not believe ... " 
"What happened?" 
"You know the final scene? Where Maria confronts Chino after he's killed Tony?" 
"Yeah." 
"Half of the audience was laughing." "Oh." ''The other half was encour­aging Maria to shoot Chino." 
"Uh oh." 
As I recall, the West Side Sauna of '90 occurred before the Great Flat Tire of '93. Whitey, driving four of his stu­dents to visit Notre Dame, had to unload the trunk in the midst of a late-night blizzard on 1-84 in order to find his spare, but after the No Dinero incident of '89, when, driving to Queens to collect props for the West Side Story show (why he didn't just go to the West Side for the ma­terials I'll never understand) at the apex of rush hour, Whitey arrived at the Triborough bridge toll booth and realized that his pockets were bereft of coinage. 
Yes. the West Side Sauna def­initely took place before the Bun in the Oven scare of '91, when it was feared that a prominent female cast member might have to drop out of the show only a week before it opened (fortunately, it was a false alarm), but certainly after 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
the Picket Line scramble of '89, which saw my roomie getting on the subway at 6 a.m. so that he could arrive at school before some of his disgruntled col­leagues, all of whom were more handsomely compensated than he (no offense, Whitey), had formed their picket line. 
Whitey, you should know. and this is why everyone should like him so much, is no beatific being. He can lose his temper, loves to sleep and is not against having a beer or three. As a junior here he chose not to take the MCAT when most of us did because the test date coincided with his 21st birthday, the only one, as he remarked at the time, that he would ever have. I remember thinking that he had a warped sense of priorities, but I also remember that he threw a great party that night. I'm not sure that he remembers anything. 
The students who visited Notre Dame with Whitey this past winter? One of them was accepted here. His family is fi-
5/NC& YOU'RE (3f;{TING ON, I THOUGHT IV 
IAJAL..K YOU 
THROUGH IT. 
'\ 
I 
am not gomg to answer any questions about the book. It is not easy for me to do this, but I have to for our football ream. 
Lou Holtz 
WEST SIDE SAUNA 
-
::• ¥ nancially strapped, though, and his parents were unable to ac­company him for orientation weekend. Guess who volun­teered to come in their place. On his own dime (he remem­bered to bring enough for the tolls this time). 
Notre Dame has produced several legends. You probably have or will discover some of them; people such as the late Dr. Tom Dooley, the polymathic Fr. Ted Hesburgh, the one and only Knute. Legends are people that almost all of us wHI never be. 
Whitey is not a legend. He is a decent guy who teaches English and stages plays at a nearly bankrupt high school in one of the worst neighborhoods in America. He is what Notre Dame purports to be all about, and the kind of role model to which Notre Dame students should aspire. 
John Walters is a 1988 Notre Dame graduate, who now works at Sports Illustrated in New York. 
----~­



ACCENT 

Wednesday, September 1, 1993 page 11 
I-80, Big Gulps and Truckers 
I wish it were a dream. Yet.-------­the cackling Indiana crows remind me of the all too harsh reality that I am back in the devil's armpit known as Mishawaka. My lazy days making nacho trays at Golfland are but fond memo­ries that tiptoe through the meadow of my mind. No longer will I be able to Kris Kazlauskas teach my cat, Mammal, to Accent Columnist use the neighbor's Slip 'N Slide. Mom's cooking will -------­be substituted with scrumptious California Eldorado Casserole. Humidity will soon turn into snow, and Circus Lunch, a beacon of light in my gloomy existence, will not be here for another five months (Feb. 8, to be exact). 
My yearly pilgrimage began at 8:51 P.M. on August 22nd, as I pulled out of the driveway of a 7-11 in San Jose, California. The truck was packed, my mother, Tonto, was riding shotgun, and I had my Super Big Gulp in hand. Cruisin' down the highway, we threw caution to the wind and let the Rick James S-track blast the nasty funk. 
We hit Reno at 1 A.M. and stopped to refuel at Sierra Sid's. Up until that day, I was a virgin slot­machine puller. I looked around, and saw only a trucker with big ol' Elvis chops and a monstrous lady with "Can't Touch This" on the front of her shirt. They didn't seem to notice me as I shelled out quarters with reckless abandon. My mother had been on the phone, but she fed my newfound addiction with five bucks in quarters. Two hours later, I had lost the money and found myself lis­tening to this lady trucker tell me about the in­credible handling of her brand new big rig (no · oke). The whole experience left me vowing to take my children to Sierra Sid's for their "first time" too. 
The following day brought stops for fuel and Big Gulps until we reached Rawlins, Wyoming. It was then that I experienced pure terror. I left the hotel to look for a Burger King in this trailer park, Oak Ridge Boys kind of town, and wound up getting lost! With tears streaming down my face, I passed Pepe's Mexican greasy spoon five times before I found the my way back. It was time to let Tonto take the reigns for a while. 
Tonto made it somewhere near Grand Island, Nebraska before she practically fell asleep at the wheel. Resuming my role as Captain, I sped up alongside cars while my mother sprayed their windshields with a squirt bottle. I'll admit that a Super-Soaker is the best way to go, but even our crude methods of disturbing our fellow highway companions made the ride through cornfields and combines much faster. Thanks, mom. 
A brief stay in Omaha allowed us to rest up for the final stage of our journey. We visited the Lithuanian side of the family, and then the Nebraskan side. Picking up a few more boxes full of stuff, we made our way for the booming metropolis of Michiana. 
The trip was only half of the fun. The other ha 
can be summed up with the word, "LOFT." The 
construction of Super loft took three days, but this 
is the end all, be all to the loft-building commu­
nity. Free standing with three elevated beds, I am 
sending an open invitation for everyone to come 
to 421 Stanford to see this baby. Come on down, 
and grab yourself a couple of those cocktail 
weinies and some fruit punch 'cause this open 
house is on for the rest of the year. 
At any rate, school is now in session, and I will 
have to pay the price for DARTing into Russian. 
Yet, even with the grueling schedule that I face 
as a pottery major, I can feel good knowing that I 
have a comfy bed where I can rest, and fond 
memories of a kicking summer. 
Comejoin the Accent Staffof The Observer 
The following paid positions are available: Assistant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editor Also, there is one position open for a 
monthly columnist. If interested please contact Kenya Johnson at 1-4 540 or simply submit a resume and personal statement to the Accent Department of The Observer 
Saint Mar~'s has a 'Sister Aet' of their own 
By ELIZABETH MARTIN Sister Diane Guy called Smoyer at Saint Mary's 
Accent Wri1er last April to organize this contemplative \/ Friday evening for 60,000 people expect-
TO, 
ed to attend World Youth Day. "I had 
The enthusiasm, organization '/i no idea for what I was saying yes," and stamina for which Sister V said Smoyer. Betty Smoyer is renowned on The responsibility was enor­the Saint Mary's campus, was ~~ mous and the actual time to well utilized at Mile High ------~------...T 
Stadium during the World Youth Day celebration on Aug. 16. 
Under a light cloud cov­ering with a slight breeze streaming through the immense audience, songs of contemplation and rev­erence filled the stadium. 
The perpetual stream of "shhh's" brought the previ­ously thundering stadium to a whisper in a successful attempt to call the masses to quiet. 
Thursday night the young people were "as high as kites and doing conga lines," said Smoyer. Friday was a day of reverence and reflection and Smoyer was in charge of all the music for the evening. 
prepare for the event was 
minimal. But, Smoyer said, 
~ "I was doing what I love" 
\..,..1 and she was grateful 
~ because the Saint Mary's 
~ staff helped her out a lot. 
-< 
Last Spring Smoyer 
began reviewing audio and 
video tapes of potential per­
~ formers for the World Youth (',.,. Day pre-animation session .~ and a celebration of the 
(',.;: Stations of the Cross. 
~~ Since the performers she 
~ chose were from all over the 
globe, rehearsal time was limited. 
You just had to "let go and trust that 
people would come through," said 
Smoyer. 
She sent each of the vocalists the music, and suggested they practice before they finally got together on Wednesday night for rehearsal. 
"It was a kick-a thrill to finally get to pray and sing together," Smoyer said. 
Though the audience never knew, the performance had a few pre-animation difficulties. The only scheduled time the group had to practice together in Mile High Stadium was set for Friday morning, but technical difficulties made this impossible. 
With their only chance to practice on stage cancelled, Smoyer moved the musical troop to the Denver Broncos locker room, and they finally got on stage at 5:30 p.m. to rehearse for their 6 p.m. performance. 
"It was an experience of union and unity which is over­whelming to experience and has re-energized me to do what I do at Saint Mary's," Smoyer said. 
One of the most memorable experiences for Smoyer occurred at the end of the World Youth Day celebration and was not captured on television. The young people carried a 350 pound cross used for the Stations to the center of the stadium, gathered in a circle with clasped hands and raised them high while singing "Jesus Remember Me". 
This powerful moment revealed to Smoyer that young people really do know how "to celebrate the fullness of life in its suffering and joy." 
Organizing an event for 60,000 people has prepared Smoyer for the upcoming Sesquicentennial celebration at Saint Mary's. Music is her passion and young people bring her joy, she said. 
"It's such a joy to work with young people and I enjoy sharing through the gift of music," Smoyer said. Whoopi Goldberg may have been the star of the movie, but Smoyer is the "sister act" behind these scenes. 
Members of the choir practiced daily before their big concert for the Pope in Colorado. 
Photo courtesy of Betty Smoyer 
_.....---..._. --­

page 12 The Observer • TENNIS Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
Agassi loses in first round of Open; Edberg scrapes by 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK All of Andre Agassi's boasts suddenly sounded empty. 
He bragged about his new work ethic, his renewed confi­dence. He thought he'd strut into the U.S. Open without play­ing many matches and just stroll off with the trophy and the fat check. 
Instead, he walked off a loser Tuesday in one round -just like Jennifer Capriati and Michael Stich. Two-time defending champion Stefan Edberg nearly did the same, while No. 1 Jim Courier and No. 2 Pete Sampras breezed ahead. 
Sweden's Thomas Enqvist, ranked 61, beat Agassi at his own game in a 3 1/2-hour affair, outhitting him from the baseline and making his head spin with 20 aces in a 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 6-7 (3-7), 6-2 victory. 
"I didn't really feel sharp from the first point to the last point," said Agassi, the 16th seed. "And when you are down two sets, it takes a lot of energy out of you to get back into it." 
Agassi should know because he never has come back from two sets down. 
"In the fifth set," he acknowl­edged, "I made a lot of mental errors." 
Agassi complained he had trouble with the swirling winds, trouble with his backhand. Mostly he had trouble with dou­hie-faults -three in the final set-and with Enqvist's 125 mph serves. 
"It's definitely a setback for me," Agassi said. "To what degree I don't know yet. Maybe I have to work a little harder." 
He seemed as shocked by his upset as the crowd that had cheered so hard for him. 
"If you win." he said, "you feel like you're on top of the world. If you lose, you feel like I am right now. It will get worse if this guy gets his butt kicked in the next rounds." 
Before Enqvist experienced the biggest victory of his life, his compatriot, Edberg. nearly suffered one of his worst losses. 
In the heat of the day, Edberg lay sprawled on the court, knocked down at the net by a blistering backhand to his head. He rose slowly, like a boxer at the count of nine. 
And just as slowly, Edberg struggled back, exactly as he did a year ago to win his second straight Open. 
No defending men's champi­on ever lost in the first round of the U.S. Open, much less a two­time defending champ like Edberg. Yet he barely avoided that dubious distinction, surviv­ing 6-2, 0-6. 7-6 (9-7). 5-7, 6-3 in a 3 1/2-hour drama against 99th-ranked Olivier Delaitre. 
Less fortunate was Capriati, the women's No. 7 seed, drummed out in the first round by Leila Meskhi, 1-6, 6-4, 6-4. 
"I couldn't believe I could get totally off after the first set when I played great," said Capriati. who punched a fore­hand long to end an 18-shot rally on the final point. That was Capriati's 61st unforced error, more than double Meskhi's total. 
Mary Joe Fernandez, the women's No. 6 seed. withdrew because of abdominal pain. She was replaced by Maria Jose Gaidano of Argentina, a "lucky loser" from the qualifying tour­nament, who promptly showed up to beat Andrea Vieira 6-2, 5­7, 6-0. 
Bye-bye, too, went Stich, the men's No. 6, who succumbed to Henrik Holm 6-3, 7-6 (10-8), 3­6, 6-3. 
Not all the top players had a tough time. Courier dispatched Marco Aurelio Gorriz 6-1, 6-3, 6-3; Sampras beat Fabrice Santoro 6-3, 6-1, 6-2, and with Agassi's loss now has a seedless path to the quarters. He could then meet No. 7 Michael Chang, who beat Shelby Cannon 6-1, 7­5, 6-2. 
Women's No. 2 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario downed Florencia Labat 6-4, 6-3; No. 5 Gabriela Sabatini defeated Patty Fendick 6-3, 6-1. and No. 8 Jana Novotna, the Wimbledon finalist, beat Angelica Gavaldon 6-2, 6-4. 
Edberg's last loss at the Open came in the first round in 1990 against Alexander Volkov. Now Edberg seemed as if he might go that way again, playing against a man who knew all about first-round losses. Delaitre fell a dozen times in the first round of ATP tourna­ments, and both times in his last two Opens, before switch­ing to the easier Challengers circuit. 


On this day, though, Delaitre played well enough to take advantage of a flat champion, mixing lobs and deep topspin groundstrokes, a crushing backhand and a decent. if not overwhelming, first serve. Compact and muscular at 5­foot-8, Delaitre was a mid­dleweight pummeling a 6-2 ten­nis heavyweight. 

Edberg's legs looked dead, his serve seemed labored, his vol­leys erratic. His chipping back­hand betrayed him, his fore­hands had little pace. Linesmen called him for six foot-faults on first serves. He double-faulted 11 times. On changeovers, he had a ballboy hold a big blue umbrella over him to shield the sun. 
American Heart Association 
The Observer accepts classified. every bwiness <by from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 r..m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-<lay classified. is 3p.m. All classafieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per <by, including all spaces. 
lost and Found 
LOST • Black framed glasses. Please call Nlc at 1441 IMPOA· TANTI 
Wanted 
Part time child care person needed Immediately .2Q-25 hours per week. Call271-1638. 
Need 1 NW lor student ask lor Carrie · 4-4802 
MODELS WANTED lor suggestive but tasteful photos In various attire. call273-7074 alter Slor info. 
MAKE $1,000111 ALUMNI (HOLY CROSS HOGS) NEED A 2+ BEDROOM APART· MENT FOR LAST 5 HOME FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS. YOU JUST SLEEP SOMEWHERE ELSE TO EARN DRINKING MONEY. SECU­RITY DEPOSIT PAID IN ADVANCE. CALL (612) 332-1443 AND LEAVE NUMBER. WE'LL CALLBACK. 
EXTERIOR PAINTERS Experienced Student Painters need­ed to paint South Bend area homes. Full or Part Time. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 1·800-626·6267. "painting America's homes coast to coasr 
LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER­
VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS, 
PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE 
RESPONSIBLE. MATURE AND 
NON-SMOKER AND LIKE 
TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO­
TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT. 
n8-2s1s. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8 TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PAICESI BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800· 678-63861 
Grad stu. wants to SHARE COM· MUTE TOIFM CHICAGO Brian 289­3234 M·W 312-()68-4227 Th-Sun. 

$$$$ Looking lor a 1993 NO football sea­son ticket bookletllll thanksll call 284-5115 
$$$$ 

PART-TIME SITTER Need reliable, qualified, compassionate person to babysit In our home for 8mo. Mon­Wed·Fri please call273-9512. 
For Rent 
PANASONIC KX-P1123 PAINTER High quality print -like new,$ 125 Call Tom (evenings) 2n-2676 
FURNISHED ROOM FOR RENT. $150/MO. 287-2159. 
NEAR NO· SAFE, AFFORDABLE, FUR· NISHED APTS. 1 BDRM. · $240, 755 SOUTH BEND AVE. 2 BDRM. • $280, 
519COABY DEP. REQ'D. 1-800-582·9320. 
6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS, WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO. PER PERSON. 2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. 1 BEDROOM, $225 MO. ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE. 272-6306. 
WEEKENDS • RIVERFRONT NEW HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101. 
HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE NICE ACCOMMODATIONS. 271­0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING MACHINE 
Castle PI Apt vacancy 1.5 bath 2 nn. Female r-mate needed lor school yr. Great locationl Call 284· 4003 or 273-1420. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291-7153 
FURNISHED HOUSE TO SHARE. 2mi from NO. Wash/dry. Quiet. Prefer Male/female grad stu. Jeff 289-3234 
For Sale 
2 BIKES. COUCH & CHAIR.272­6306 
BLACK MASTER'S GOWN & NOTRE DAME HOOD· $150. ORIGINAL PRICE $300. THIS WOULD FIT MALE OR FEMALE UP TO 5'10". CALL 288-6572 EVENINGS OR 631-4618 DAYS. 
Washer and Gas Dryer Full size 225; Couch and matching chair 60; Wilson tennis racket 10; Raliegh English policeman's bicycle 3­speed 75.00 Dennis 288-6827 
COLOR TV RENTALS: 19", two semesters, $99.95 delivered. 13", two semesters, $69.95 delivered. Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959. 
VCR RENTALS: Rent a VCR, two semesters $99.95 delivered. Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959 
'91 CAMARO AS, blue w/silver strip on side, T-top, fancy wheels, power windows, locks, ale, wide tires, less than 7000 miles. Never driven in winter or bad weather. 259-3953 alter4 pm. 
FOR SALE 1973 Chevy Impala· runs well -nice sound system $500. 288-6827 
SOCCER CLEATS NEW ADIDAS COPA MUNDIAL SIZE 12 $50 CALL MATT X1524 
'91 CAMARO AS Blue w/ Silver Strip on side, T-Top, Fancy Wheels, Power Window & locks, A/C, Wide tires. Less than 7000 miles. Never driven in winter or bad weather. Ph 259-3953 after 4PM 
2 Story Colonial next to Donmoyer. Kevin Zeisz 272-5444 
carpeting, brand new, bound 
11x12, dark pink $90 call BrianT. 289-6648 
Tickets 
SENIOR STUD TIX BOOK 4 SALE NEED, MONEY WANT 2 SELL NOW. 
634-4694 
ASK FOR DAINA 
STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE 634-4586 Marc 
I need 2 NW tix. X-1653 
For sale: 2 Pitt GA's, 1 Pitt stud. X-1653. 
I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272-6306 
Needed: student football ticket books. Please call Rob-2067 or stop by at 243 Stanford. 
NEED 2 FSU TICKETS HELPI • ND/FSU MARRIAGE (904) 398-6146. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 FSU TICKETS (904) 398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need a set of student tickets. Call 273-6524. Ask for Rich or Bert or leave message. 
I NEED STUDENT SEASON TIX AND GA's ALL GAMES JASON 233·4008 
$$1 Need NW Tix$$ Call Matt at 1060 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL JANE AT 1-800-264·3278. 
I desperately need 2 MSU tickets. I will either buy or tradelllllll\ Please call-will pay well. Katie ext.3756 
Senior ticket application for sale call Leah 284-5334 
Senior ticket application lor sale Call John 2B2·2206 
I have TWO Northwestern tix, will trade for Pitt or BC tix-Bryan 1190 
. 
WANTED STUDENT TIX $14n$ 
WANTED FSU & USC Gas will beat any price 288-5282 
NORTHWESTERN lor sale 2323736 
Senior ticket application for sale call John 282-2206 
STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE 634-2993 Elizabeth NORTHWESTERN stud. tick. avail. 273-5909 Pete. 
Need 1 Northwestern ticket, student or GA Carolyn 3899 
Sr. stud. tix book 4 sale $150/bo x3895 
Help! Need 2 Ga's lor PITT, BC. or USC. call x4-3650 
NEED MSU GA'S CALL MATT X1524 
Will trade 2 GA NW, MSU, Pitt or USC for 2 GA FSU or BC. Tracey or Nick 631-n33 
Married Student Tix 4 sale 2n­9074 
$ $ $ $ $ NEED MSU TIX CALL AVELINO X4212 
$ $ $ 
••• FOR SALE*** 
Four N'Western tix: 20 yd. line. All together. Best offer at 291-6216 Ask for Bill. 
NEED 4 N'WEST GA'S CALL TOM @271·2908 
NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR 11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT 1 BOO 543 0357 
WANTED TWO GA OR MARRIED STUDENT TICKET TO ANY HOME GAMES. JOHN BOO 258-6524 EXT1152 
I need 1 studenl or GA tix for MSU . Will trade or buy 273-417B 
BIG BUCKS! NO STUD TIX BOOK NEEDED CALL PAT@ 273-4867 
NEED ALL TICKETS 271·8641 KEVIN 
3 NORTHWESTERN G.A.'S NEED· EDIIIIIIIIII CALL JULIE AT 27B4. 
1 st. tk book lor sale: $110. x1444 I HAVE 2 LENNY KRAVITZ TICK· ETS FOR PINE KNOB ON SATUA· DAY. SEPTEMBER 11. (IN THE EVENING • AFTER THE MICHI­GAN GAMEl) I WANT TO TRADE FOR MICHIGAN TICKETS (PREFEAABL Y) OR $$$. CALL JEN AT X1308 ·SOON!! 

I have 2 NW GA's will sell or trade!! call Paul at 273-5972 
Need: stu. tix Leave name & ph. no. 233·1463. 
Personal 
pat is great 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 

1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
IRISH MUSIC For NOTRE DAME FANS ONLYIII FRIDAY NIGHT The Madison Oyster Bar SEAMAISIN 
SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The Madison Oyster Ber. Bring friends. 
ND/SMC WELCOME BACK PARTY WED 6-9 HAGGAR TERRACE SMC, PAPA JOHNS, HACIENDA VAS. BOTHER $1 
CONGRATULATIONS TO MIKE 
AND HIS WOMAN I 

HEY SPRING 1993 LONDOMERSI 
LOLLAPASCHADL1993 
This is the even I we've all been waiting fori That crazy tailgater will take place this Saturday before the Northwestern game. Watch this space for more details (that's right--just keep watch· ing THIS very space and details WILL appear--hey--you stopped looking--don~ do thatl). 
LOLLAPASCHADL 1993 
HEY SPRING 1993 LONDOMERSI 
Wednesday, September 1, 1993 The Observer • NFL page 13 
Seahawks looking to NO's Mirer to boost team 


Happy 21st Katie Benco! 
Love, The Benco Clan 
lt2 

The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Circulation Drivers 
Must be available between 11 AM and 1 PM at least one day per week. 
Contact Brian Kennedy at 631-5313 or foe Riley at 634-1780. 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND, Wash. 
Can the Seattle Seahawks go from a franchise-worst 2-14 to 14-2? 
That's highly unlikely. But they're also highly unlikely to go 2-14 again. 
"My goal this year is just to help the Seahawks win," 1992 NFL Defensive Player of the Year Cortez Kennedy said. ''I'm not worried about my sacks. I'm just going to go out there and play hard." 
The 300-pound tackle and the other Seahawks defenders are looking for rookie quarterback Rick Mirer to give them some­thing they didn't have enough of last season-points. 
Mirer, the second player cho­sen in April's draft, helped the Seahawks win their final two exhibition games over the San Francisco 49ers and Houston by a combined score of 50-10. He guided the Seahawks to a 30-0 lead in the first half against the 49ers. 
The Seahawks defenders are encouraged. 
"Rick makes things happen on the field," Kennedy said. "He doesn't just stay in the pocket. He's a rookie who is only going to get better." 
If Mirer can stay healthy behind an offensive line that couldn't protect Stan Gelbaugh, Dan McGwire and Kelly Stouffer last season, the Seahawks could improve dra­matically. 
How dramatically? Maybe to 7-9 or even 8-8. Maybe enough to get an AFC wild-card berth. Or maybe the Seahawks will go 4-12 or 5-11. At least there will be some improvement. 
With Kennedy, the Seahawks have one of the league's strongest defenses. With Mirer, they're hopeful of considerably bettering their 140-point total, the NFL's lowest, of last season. 
"Last year is over," 1,000­yard rusher Chris Warren said. "It's over and done with. There's no need to talk about last year." 
Warren would rather think about the future -and Seattle's last two exhibition games. 
"I think we're much improved from last year," he said. "I think we're going to put points on the board." 
Mirer isn't used to losing. But he's used to pressure-packed big games at Notre Dame. He may not be ready for the NFL yet but the Seahawks need him to be ready. 
McGwire, the Seahawks 1991 first-round pick, was supposed to battle Mirer for the starting job during the exhibition sea­son. But he will miss the Seahawks' first two regular­season games with a chipped bone in his wrist that he injured against the 49ers. 
The confident Mirer already has his teammates' confidence. 
"Rick's inexperienced but he's a great talent," Warren said. "He's smart and he makes good decisions. He's going to help us." 
Seahawks owner Ken Behring has been called cheap and his commitment to spending enough dollars on players has been questioned. But he's pay­ing enormous money on Mirer and Kennedy. 
Behring gave Kennedy a four­year, $12.6 million contract extension as a reward for Kennedy's 1992 season. Behring also signed Mirer to a five-year, $15.7 million con­tract, a contract that was disap­proved by NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue. It will be decid­ed in September by federal judge David Doty. 
Coach-general manager Tom Flores was encouraged by his team's 2-2 exhibition record. In Seattle's 20-10 victory last Saturday in Houston, Dave McCloughan ran back a punt 75 yards for a touchdown. 
"Our special teams are getting pretty good," Flores said. "We're getting there speed wise." 
Cowboy's Smith still holding out for 
1.5 million more than current offer 
Associated Press 
DALLAS Emmitt Smith didn't pop out from behind a curtain this time at the coming home luncheon, leaving a stern coach Jimmy Johnson to proclaim the defending Super Bowl champi­on Dallas Cowboys can beat the Washington Redskins without him. 
When Smith was a rookie, he ended his training camp hold­out by jumping on stage much to the surprise of the audience in a scenario crafted by owner Jerry Jones. 
Smith, who wants $1.5 mil­lion a year more than the Cowboys are offering him, was in Pensacola, Fla., instead of Dallas on Tuesday, leaving a somber Jones to say only: "I hope Emmitt is on the field, but you've got to put yourself in my 

be a volunteer sponsor 
for Notre Dame students who are candidates for 
IffiiiDJP~n~IJIID51 JFunilll <e <IDIliiDiliiDUlliiDn<ID1ID51 <IDll" <e <IDmllffiifllliDIID~n <IDI!il in the Catholic Church 
Informational meeting ... no obligation! 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 Foster Room, 3rdfloor LaFortune 
6:30p.m. Sponsors for persons preparing for baptism or full communion (RCIA) 
7:30p.m. Sponsors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation 
QUESTIONS? 
call or visit Kate Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 631-5242 
shoes." 
Jones said the Cowboys have been negotiating by telephone all week with Smith's agent, Richard Howell, but nothing has changed. Jones said no new offer has been made. 
The Cowboys are offering about $2.5 million. Smith, who made a total of $3 million his first three years in the league, is asking about $4 million. That would make him the highest­paid running back in the NFL. 
Johnson gave every indication the NFL's top rusher of last season won't be available for the season opener on Monday night against at Washington. 
"We believe we can win in RFK against Washington even if Emmitt is not part of the team," Johnson said. "We're a better team with him." 
Rookie Derrick Lassie from 
American Heart 
•
Association 
Alabama will start if Smith 
doesn't end his holdout. 
Johnson said the Cowboys 
"were very fortunate" to have 
Lassie on the club. 
"Lassie has made tremendous 
improvement, and I've been 
very pleased," Johnson said. 
"In the last two preseason 
games he has showed steady 
improvement." 
Five veterans cut Monday 
were re-signed and returned to 
the team on Tuesday. They 
were fullback Tommie Agee, 
center Dale Hellastrae, special 
teams standout Bill Bates, line­
backer Bobby Abrams, and 
defensive back Robert Williams. 
The Cowboys were negotiating 
with third-team quarterback 
Hugh Millen, who was sup­
posed to receive $1 million but 
was cut after Jason Garrett had , such a strong training camp. 
Johnson got emotional at the luncheon, saying, "I just wish we could bottle the feelings we had after the Super Bowl. I would have liked to have saved it and just unscrewed the cap during tough times. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Day Editors 
Applicants must be available weekday afternoons. For more information, call Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540. 


Rocket works out with his new team 
Associated Press Ismail entered negotiations feeling. I feel confident if I 
with the Raiders. study and learn the schemes, 

EL SEGUNDO, Calif. Tuesday, he entered the fold. I'll be able to be successful. 
Raghib "Rocket" Ismail "I was just going through the "But there are so many other signed a two-year, $3 million motions. I was following who­people around on the same contract and then practiced ever looked like they were team. I don't have to worry with the Los Angeles Raiders receivers," Ismail said after about being 'the man.' I can for the first time Tuesday. practice. "I was trying to look look down the line and see 
The workout was closed to like I was fitting in without seven or eight guys who are the media, a rarity for the sticking out too much." already there. There is no kind Raiders, to avert any distrac­of pressure." tions. Ismail's chances of appearing Shell said it was too early to 
Afterward, coach Art Shell in the NFL opener Sunday tell whether Ismail would be introduced the newest Raider against the Minnesota Vikings activated for Sunday's game, at a press conference, saying: -and his brother, Qadry -but suggested that his punt and "I want to present to you the appear to hinge on his readi­kickoff return abilities might great Rocket Ismail." ness to return kicks, rather gain him an immediate spot. 
Ismail, runnerup for the than run pass routes. "He's a valuable person Heisman Trophy in 1990 at "That's something easier to because of his ability to do Notre Dame, has spent the last handle the first time out," those things," Shell said. "We two years playing for the Ismail said. "It might look easy don't know if we're going to do Toronto Argonauts of the to the average person, but anything with him this week. Canadian Football League. there's a whole scheme and "If he can go out and make a 
He signed a four-year $18.2 plan you have on the field. If I contribution, then we'll do million contract with Toronto was to adjust to that, maybe I that." before the 1991 NFL draft. and could (play Sunday)." thus fell from potentially the Ismail said he feels no pres­Ismail, 23, will spend the next first pick overall to the fourth sure with the Raiders, certainly few days in a crash course round. The Raiders took a nothing like he felt in Toronto. learning the Raiders offense, as chance. "It's weird, man, now that well as trying to convince the 
After being released from his I'm on a team and I'm not the coaching staff to let him return contract by the Argonauts, big name," he said. "It's a cool kicks this weekend. 


Attention 
SJENJIOJRS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships Professor Walter F Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Wednesday, September 1, 1993 7:00p.m. 101 Law School 

THURSDAY 
IG SURF DRIVE-INE MOVIE!! 
Double Feature: 
* say anythingL *.Singles 
Begins at Dusk Fieldhouse Mall 
c 
Rain Site: LaFonune Ballroom 

FRIDAY
0 

Live at Stonehenge ... 
ROCKFEST II
M 
Student Bands/Refreshments 
E 
8:30 PM at the Fieldhouse Mall
-· 
File Photo Rocket Ismail, shown here in his Notre Dame days, worked out with his new teammates yesterday. 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 
Baptism Confirmation Full Communion 
in the Catholic Church 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
§IDNWA~~~WT~~mmn~ 
NCIDl!;l!'® IIDa1ll!]}<PJ I.f&®CIDJ]])~ l1ii1lF®u't'1\!J1l.ID® 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confirmation Fo1· Catholics interested in receiving the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Questions? call or visit Kaw Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 
631-52-12 
SATURDAY 
SPONSORED BY: 

w
CLIFFHANGER 
STARRING: SYLVESTERSTALLONE 
MONTGOMERY THEATER 
STUDENT UNION 
BOARD
LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER 
7:00 PM, 9:30 PM, & 12:00 AM 


E 
FREE BILLIARDS 
~IUOENT UNION ~RO
GORCH GAMES ROOM 
LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
6:00 PM -1:00AM 

E
FREE VIDEO GAMES 
GORCH GAMES ROOM 6:00PM -7:00PM 
COUPONS WILL BE DISTRIBUTED AT THE ABOVE EVENTS FOR FOOD SPECIALS AT THE HUDDLE 

K 
SUNDAY 
Comedians 

E 
Chris "Crazy Legs" Fonseca 
& 
Buzz Sutherland 

N 
8:00PM 101 Debartolo Cost: $3.00 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER INFORMATION DESK 

D 

SEPTEMBER 2-5, 1993 

Buzz Sutherland 





Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Beauchamp stands behind Holtz 
By DAVID KINNEY Editor-in-Chief 
Although University officials deny the allegations in "Under the Tarnished Dome," Father 
E. William Beauchamp, execu­tive vice president, said yester­day that Notre Dame will not take legal action against the book's authors or publishing company. 
"That's not the way Notre Dame does things," he said. "It probably wouldn't serve any purpose other than to add to the book's publicity." 
The book, written by Doug Looney and Don Yaeger and published by Simon and Schuster, attacks Head Football Coach Lou Holtz for ignoring NCAA violations during his tenure at the University of 
BackTo CollegeWith Savin~ To
Tlie 
•AtOffi I•
Over 6,000 school and office products drastically discounted every day! 
Save $279.96 Brother 

WP3410 Word 
Processor 
•12', 20~ine by B<k:haracter amber CRT display 
•3.5' 240KB floppy cisk drive • Spreadsheet function 
• On-screen help and pull down menus 
•GrammarCheck® $29999 
Catalog Ust Price $579.95 
OlficeMax Everyday Low Price
012502522942 
Save $35.01 
5I 
Texas Instruments TI-81 Graphic 
Calculator

\::! ......
---...
tcii!!C! •Puii.OOwn display menus =.a~;: •Over300functions =~~~~ •Interactive graphing features 
•'-'-'os• • 8-line x 16-characterdisplay 
TEXAS:..If 
$rf499

INSTRUMEKTS 
Catalog Us! Price $110.00 
033317073122 OfficeMax Everyday Low Price 
MeadS-Star 1SubjecUlotebook $2.19 
043100062066 
BIC B ct. Cllc Sttc Pen...................$1.99 
070330908413 
llberbardl'aber 10 Pk Penclls........69¢ 
070530136494 
8 lfa" x 11" 20# WHITE BOND : SELF-SERVICE COPIES 5¢ 
WE DELIVER! To your office or home with orders of $12 or more, within our trading area. 
Serving the Michiana Area! 
MISHAWAKA/SOUTHBEND 
WILSHdiRE PLAZRAd Grape an 0 oug1as s. Next to Builders Square. 273-0328 
Minnesota and for ques­tionable coaching methods dur­ing his eight­year career at Notre Dame. 
Beauchamp 
William said the University will Beauchamp 
continue to stand by Holtz. "He's always done what we've asked. We know for a fact that the allegations don't ring true." 
"We always take these types of matters seriously." he said, "and if we thought there were violations, we would self-report to the NCAA as we always do." 
Beauchamp said that any program is going to have some people who will say negative things about it, but "to base a book on that ... is a very differ-
Save $5.16 CASID.
Casio FX-115 Solar Plus Scientific Calculator 
• 154-scientific, mathematical and en9neering funcitons 
• Scientific calculator workbook included 
Catalog List Price $24.95 

0797671 09325 OfficeMu: Everyday Low Price 
Save 910 
K&M 1" 
Poly Binder 

• 
Resists moisture 

• 
Fashion colors 


ggo
Catalog List Price $1 .90 
OfficeMax Everyday low Price
077711720619 
Store Hours: Sun 11 am-6pm • Mon-Fri 8am-9pm • Sat 9am-9pm
Off. M ® [~]

1ce ax ~ 
fWi!!it1 
b =tiC 
...-Savings is the Bottom Line!® D 
ent matter." 
The University has received many calls since the book was released Monday in South Bend, he said. "Once people who were quoted saw the book, we started getting calls saying this is outrageous." Some sources were surprised by the way they were quoted by the authors (see story, page 20). 
He said Holtz does not intend to read the book or respond to the allegations it raises because he has responded in the past to many of the charges. 
"It's just a book," Beauchamp added. "We don't plan to change the way we run our athletic program. We're cer­tainly not going to jeopardize our integrity for something like a football game." 
Save $1.96 
Mead 3Pack Wireless Neat book 
BO Sheets 
• 80 count 

1 Subject 
~
• Wireless 
NEATBOOit
• College rule 
Catalog Ust Price $4.35 

043100064787 OfficeMax Ev.ryday Low Price 
Save 55% 
Catalog Ust Price $8.95 077914606208 OHiceMax Everyday Low Price 
continued from page 20 
strongest units in years, boast­ing eight returning starters. 
It will be a challenge for the secondary to contain Gissendaner, who is a constant big play threat. 
Greg Lane and Bobby Taylor will start at cornerback, with John Covington and Jeff Burris getting the nod at safety . 
"We will also see Willie Clark, LeShane Saddler and possibly Tracy Graham," Holtz said. 
Bryant Young anchors an experienced defensive line and talented sophomore Renaldo Wynn will make his first ever start at outside linebacker against the Wildcats. 
Linebackers Anthony Peterson and Pete Bereich have also progressed steadily in preseason practice. 
"The strength of our team obviously is our defense," Holtz explained. "I'm pleased with the progress we've made." 
Offensively, Holtz is not quite so pleased. 
Aaron Taylor and Todd Norman have made smooth adjustments from guard to tackle and Will Lyell and Dusty Zeigler will fill their spots at guard. At least for now. 
"Guard is the position where we're going back and forth," said Holtz, who added that Mark Zataveski and Mike McGlinn could also see playing time. 
Mike Miller has been impres­sive at wide receiver and will share time with Clint Johnson, Lake Dawson and Derrick Mayes. Adrian Jarrell will be sidelined for four to six weeks with a shoulder injury. 
Tailback Lee Becton and full­back Ray Zellars will start in the backfield, although a typi­cal Holtz backfield-by-commit­tee could surface against the Wildcats. Dean Lytle and freshmen Randy Kinder and Marc Edwards and Robert Farmer have proven their abil­ity in the preseason. 
Notre Dame faces a lot of questions as it enters the 1993 season, but one thing is cer­tain. It will be a very interest­ing season. 
Book it. 

Book 
continued from page 20 
compliance of the rules," he added. 
Yaeger, a Tallahassee, Fla., resident, also told AP that he grew up a Notre Dame fan, and expected the book to get a strong response from fans of the University and Holtz. 
"I hope in the end they read it for what it is, which is 84 players talking about Notre Dame ... and raising serious questions about what's going on at Notre Dame," he said. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 

.  SCM 8 1/2" :a: 11" Legal Pads ......$3.96 070630307091 l'aber-Castell4 ct. Te:a:tllner .......$3.97 070530630695 Duo-Tang Double Pocket Portfollo..18¢ 096809508250  Papermate 12 ct. Sbarpwrtter.....$2.49 041540303015 MeadWireless Neatbook................78¢ 043100056263 Dennison 1" 3-lUDg Bind.er ......... $1.27 073333679816  

page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
-. 

ACTIVITIES NIGHT 1993 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7TH 7:00PM-10:00 PM JOYCEACC 
The following groups are registered to participate in Activities Night. Ifyour club or organization is not listed, and you would like to participate, please stop by the Student Activities Office (315 La Fortune) to register. The deadline to regis­ter for Activities Night is noon on Friday, September 3rd. Call 631-7308 for more information. 
Accounting Association 

African-American Student Alliance 
African Student Association 
AIDS Awareness 
AIDS Ministries 
Aikido Club 
Alpha Epsilon Delta 

American Cancer Society Club Amer. Institute of Aeronautics/ Astronautics 
American Lebanese Club 
Amer. Society of Mechanical Engineers 
Amnesty International 
Anthropology Club 

Army ROTC Rifle Team (Sorin Rifles) 
Arnold Air Society 

Arts/Letters Business Society 
Asian American Association Bagpipe Club Bahai Club Ballet Folklorica azul y Oro Ballroom Dance Club Baptist Student Union Best Buddies Big Brothers/Big Sisters Black Cultural Arts Festival Boxing Club Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County Campus Fellowship Campus Ministry 
CARE (Campus Alliance Rape Elimination) 
Catholic Charities 

Center for Basic Learning Skills 
Center for the Homeless Children ofMary Children's Campus 

Chinese Friendship Association 
Climbing Club 
College Democrats 
College Republicans 
Collegiate Choir 

Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
Community ofCaring 

CILA (Community Alliance Lay Apostolate) 
Commu!lity Resource Center 
Computer Applications Honor Society 
Corvilla, Inc. 

Council for Fun & Learn Council on International Business Develop. 
Cricket Club 

Cuban American Union ofStudent Advocates (CAUSA) 
Dance Collective 

Democratic Socialists ofAmerica 
Dismas ofMichiana 

Dochas (Northern Ireland Awareness Group) Dome 
DOS Users Club 
Entrepreneur Club 
Equestrian Club 

Fellowship ofChristian Athletes 
Feminist Forum 
Finance Club 
First Aid Services Team Flying Club Folk Club Foodshare Friends ofSt. Jude Children's Hospital German Club Greek American Association Gymnastics Club Habari Gani Habitat for Humanity Handbell Choir Hansel Head Start Hapkido Club Hawaii Club Healthy Babies/ ASAP Hispanic American Organization Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers Indian Association Institute ofElectrical/Electronics Engineers International Society for Hybrid 
Microelectronics International Student Organization Investment Club Irish Accent Irish Outdoors Italian Club Japan Club Judo Club Juggler Knights ofColumbus Knights oflmmaculata Korean Club League of Black Business Students League ofUnited Latin American Citizens Legal Service Program ofNorthern Indiana Legendiers League Liturgical Choir Logan Logan Center--Council for the Retarded Madmacs Management Club Marketing Club Martial Arts Institute Math Club Medieval Club Memorial Hospital Auxiliary Memorial Regional Rehab Center Men's Volleyball Club Minority Pre-Professional Group Mock Trial Association Model United Nations Multicultural Executive Council Muslim Students Association NAACP National Society ofBlack Engineers Native American Students Association Naval Aviation Club Neighborhood Housing Services ofS Bend Neighborhood Study Help Program Northern Indiana State Develop. Center The Observer 
Overseas Development Network Pax -Christi Phillipine Club 

Physical Therapy Club Porn Pon Squad Pre-Professional Society Programming Group Psychology Club Ranger Challenge Team Recyclin' Irish Right-To-Life Rowing Club SADD St. Edward's Hall Players St. Joseph's Chapin St. Health Center St. Joseph County Diversion Services St. Margaret's House St. Stephen's Good News Club St. Vincent De Paul Schola Gregoriana Scholastic Magazine Science-S usiness Club Semper Fidel is Society Sex Offense Services Shenanigans Ski Club Spanish Club Sports Marketing Club Soccer Club Society ofAmerican Military Enigneers Society ofMexican Amer. Engineers & Scientists/ 
Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Society ofProfessional Journalists Society ofWomen Engineers Sociology Club Sorin Cadet Club SBCSC Adult Education Dept. Student-Alumni Relations Group (SARG) Student Art Forum Student Government Student Union Baord Students Encouraging Religious Vocations Students for Environmental Action Students with AIDS Training Student Tutorial Education Program (STEP) Synchronized Swim Club TaeKwonDo Club Technical Review Toastmaster's International Troop Notre Dame Ultimate Club Undergraduate Schools Comm./Hospitality Prog. University Communion and Liberation Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Water Polo Wind Ensemble Women's Care Center Women's Liturgical Choir Women United for Justice and Peace World Hunger Coalition World Peace Action Group WSND-FM WVFI-AM YWCA of St. Joseph County 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports and the Center for Social Concerns 


~------------~ ~-~ 
Wednesday, September 1, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 17 
u 




cation 
Community 

For those concerned about and interested in 
The Observer is now accepting


Building

gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues. 
applications for the following 
positions: 

Gays and Lesbians at you-know-where 

Assistant Editor 

PO Box 194, Notre Dame IN 46556 Erik 634·31 07 • Kelly 289-4063 
CapyEdilar Calu•nist 

First General Meeting: Sunday, September 5, 1993, 3:30 p.m. 
To apply, submit a resume and personal statement to Kenya Johnson by Friday, September 3. Contact Kenya at 631-4540

Write/call for further information. 
for more information. 

Associated Press  Press' Mr. Football in  ..  
1990 before spending  .•·  
COLUMBUS, Ohio ..  as a redshirt. He won  
Bob Hoying is majoring m:~%Un  the spring, bea  
business, but he has taken a  senior Bret Powers,  

history lesson to heart. :v• < solidified his po:stti.on••CJ A year ago, as a.. r~~~b.it reseason 
freshman, Hoying camQ i ·.. "I'm just real 
against Bowling Green wli . ··•·· ~~/' he 
Kirk Herbstreit was injtil"eq; \ . eguple years 
Three snaps later, h!l i · ··play!:!d; so l .. 
right and flipped apassu get out on the· 
grabs that led to the Falcons' He's not the 
only points in Ohio State's .17~ St. Henry, Ohio, •v"'"'Ul'l'i 
6 victory. ward to the season. He never entered a game er. Tom, is a freshman when it mattered again. · · · · terback for the Huc~lm'ves. Now Hoying will get his first ·.· most of the 3,000 . start at quarterback when+' St, Henry are 
Ohio State opens at 'hom, against Rice on Saturday. Th memory of that ill-advl pass hasn't faded a least for a lot of fans. 
"Art Schlichter threw. interceptions his first gaJl1~l Hoying said of the quarterba~ who set most of Ohio State's passing records. 
"People always remember that first impression. I just have to remember that, sure, you're going to have a bad play, but that I'm capable of making a lot of good plays. 
"Obviously, Art came back and had a great career here. I'm not going to let it get me down. ... I'm a lot better play~· er than what people saw in the BG game. That was · man mistake and r• freshman anymore." < 
The 6-foot-4. 223"poqt1 Hoying was The 

A group for 
atch on their :'It's a big d oing to be a lot of watch us play. 
it:{l Lacbey came t:)nry and"we ~te.Jt's been a 
home. Everybody's ing about it. The first anybody says to my n;n•onr., back home is, 'Are the ready?"' Hoying said. 
Hoying admits to pregame jitters. 
"Anybody who tells they're not nervous "·· ""' ..., . ., their first game is Hoying said. "I feel to perform right think anybody at· 
o!lld feel that. ... d. talent.arotmn 'going to · ellike I've thtng myself. · m~ to relax a little 
Paterno picks Sacca as Penn State QB 
Associated Press conceded Tuesday that Sacca 
was No. 1 all along-provided 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. Collins or Wally Richardson 
Things are beginning to fall in didn't beat him out. line for Penn State coach Joe Sacca was 4-2 as a starter last Paterno, although not neces­year and threw 100 passes sarily the way he would like before his first interception. He them. would have ranked third in the 
He has decided on a quarter­Big Ten in passing efficiency back, John Sacca, and he said and was the team leader in Tuesday he would play three total offense, with 1,179 yards. tailbacks in the Big Ten opener "I went into the preseason against Minnesota, so that's not with the idea that somebody really a problem. had to beat John out,' Paterno 
The Nittany Lions, however, said. "I felt that John played are hurting at fullback, tight well last year, maybe a little end and wide receiver. Injuries 
will force Paterno to use play­ers in Saturday's game whether they're ready or not. 
Asked Tuesday to discuss injuries, Paterno said: "Do you have a lot of time?'' 
"We've probably had the most devastating preseason practice we've ever had as far as the catastrophic injuries," Paterno said. 
Tiseo Thomas, the top return­ing receiver, is out for the sea­son, as is tight end Ryan Grube. Brian O'Neal is doubtful at full­back for Saturday. Jon Witman probably will start. 
"Is he far enough along to handle it? He'd better be," Paterno said. ''I'm not crazy about going into a football game with a kid who has never carried the ball in a game, but that's the way it has to be." 
But at least the Nittany Lions have a quarterback -three, in fact, who made it through the fall without injuries. 
Sacca, who started last year after Kerry Collins broke his 
Penn State Sports Information 
finger, will start Saturday 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno faced a quarterback controversy similar 
against Minnesota. Paterno 
to Lou Holtz's, but he named John Sacca as his starter yesterday. 
better than Kerry." 
"Now, if I had started the other way and said somebody had to beat Kerry Collins out, I'm not sure anybody would have beaten Kerry Collins out. All three kids are fine quarter­backs," Paterno said. 
Sacca completed 52 percent of his passes last year. Collins 4 7 percent. Collins was 2-2 in games he started. Richardson, a true freshman last year, quarterbacked the Lions in a victory over Temple. 

fRifNOS OON'T lH fRifNOS ORIVf ORUNK. !]U.S. Department ol Transporlaton  
-~~ ----­-­-­---­-~: ____:______~­-­-­--­--­---­·-­--­----­---­-RECREATIONAL SPORI'S UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTRAMURALS CLUB SPORTS CHALLENGE U FITNESS RECREATION SERVICES LOCATED IN THE JACC 1ST FLOOR  



~-------~---~----------­
~-.... ·-· ---... ----~-·------------·--··-.... -..-·-·--·····.. ···-············ 
page 18 The Observer • SAINT MARY'S Wednesday, September 1, 1993 
Travis to take hel01 Freshmen help strengthen Belles soccer 
ByBERNADETIE to sit out some of the week's help the team rank among the 
PAMPUCH tryout. top-ten in the Great Lakes Sports Writer "I just wish I could play," said Division Ill for the fourth con­
ofSMC athletics 
Napierkowski, whose sideline secutive year. 

By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The athletes and athletic administrators at Saint Mary's are looking forward to the arrival of Jan Travis, who will replace JoAnn Nester as athlet­ic director on Tuesday, September 7. 
Travis, who is coming to Saint Mary's from Coe College in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was chosen from a pool of over forty applicants. The decision was made by a panel consisting of Saint Mary's assistant athletic director Maureen Harty, bas­ketball coach Marv Wood, vol­leyball coach Julie Schroeder­Biek and three student athletes. 
The selection committee was established to choose someone who will be responsible for overseeing all seven varsity sports, along with club, intra­mural and recreational sports, and the physical education department. 
According to Harty, Travis' experience at Coe College, also 
Purdue QB questionable 
Asaociated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Let 'em wonder. 
...... 
Purdue coach Jim Colletto has promised to discipline quarterback Matt Pike, but he's not giving North Carolina State -or anyone else, for that matter -any indication what that penalty will be. 
The Boilermakers open the season Saturday against the No. 24-ranked Wolfpack. Colletto isn't saying whether Pike will be in the lineup. 
"We're dealing with that within the football team, and he's going to have to pay some penalty," Colletto said Tuesday, referring to Pike's arrest over the weekend for underage drinking. 
Pike, 20, was taken into cus­tody after police were called to a campus fraternity house early Sunday. He was released shortly afterward. 
Colletto said he would announce the penalty "when we get to the proper time" later in the week. 
"I wouldn't even comment if I was going to make a state­ment," Colletto said of Pike's status for the game. 
Pike, mostly a backup the past two years, inherited the starting job this season after the graduation of Eric Hunter. 
West Lafayette police chief Dennis Mitchell said police were called to the house to investigate an unspecified dis­turbance. 
"The officers noted that he had been consuming an alco­holic beverage and identified him as being under 21 and took the appropriate action by citing him to the court," chief Dennis Mitchell told the Lafayette Journal and Courier. "That's standard procedure." 
The Boilermakers (4-7 last year) open the season a week earlier than in the past, and Colletto said they have "put in a more concentrated effort" in practice. 
a small Division III liberal arts school, was a key factor in the decision. 
Harty also noted that "her philosophy on being a student before an athlete is consistent with that of Saint Mary's. She understands the role athletics plays in an academically rigor­ous environment." 
At Coe College, Travis has served as assistant athletic director since 1989, as well as the head coach of the women's softball team and assistant pro­fessor of physical education. She received her master's degree in health and physical education from Northeast Missouri State University. 
Senior tennis player Thayma Darby, who also served on the selection committee feels that Travis will be a positive influ­ence on Saint Mary's athletics. 
"She was very knowledgeable not just about athletics, but also Saint Mary's," she said. "Her enthusiasm towards our program will definitely benefit everyone." 
The 1993 soccer season at Saint Mary's got off to a hot start last week with a combina­tion of over 90-degree weather and seven returning senior players. 
Vying for one of the twenty positions is Anne Napierkowski, a freshman with five years of experience behind her and a foot injury that has forced her seat for Monday's practice offered a glimpse of the coming season. "I've been observing the team, (and) they look really good." 
Megan Dalsaso, a senior who has played for three years, agrees. 
"Each year we get better and better, we have a really good group of freshmen this year." 
Nine freshmen are hoping to 

September 11 will see the start of the season with a tour­nament at DePaul University and the first chance to go head­on with chief competitor Dennison University. 
The Ohio-based team missed the top spot in the division last year by one goal, and is very unlikely to let the chance pass them by again this time around. 
LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1994-95 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 

If you are interested in graduate study and r~search abroad, don't miss the informational meetmg TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7 -7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 

The new 3-D graphing grade-making easy-learning fast-answering budget-pleasing headache-busting HP48G 
Check it out The new HP 48G graphic calcula­tor gives you a whole lot more for a whole lot less than you think. 
Get more 
. Push a button, choose from the pull-down menu, and fill in the blanks. Entering data is that easy. 
·View 3-D graphs. 
•Access over 300 built-in equations. 
·Perform algebra and calculus operations on equations before entering values. 
·Enter and see equations like they appear on paper. 
. Work with different units of measure. The HP 48G will convert them for you. For example, enter inches, centimeters, yards, and feet, together in one equation ­it'll convert them. 
Get more ... for less .Compare prices-the HP 48G fits your budget. 
Special introductory offer* When you buy an HP 48G or HP 48GX, you can get free software (plus games!) and a free cable for connecting to your desktop PC. Write programs for the HP 48 using your PC keyboard, or store HP 48 files and programs on your desktop PC. 
Pick up a coupon at your college bookstore. 
Ff/dl HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 
*Offer good whil<' supplies last on purcha~!'s mad!' from August I, HJ9:l throu~h Octob('r 31, 199:1. SPe coupon for t<•nns and conditions. ©IIPwlett-Packard Company. I'G 12:1068 


TODAY 

Wednesday, September 1, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
onttRS BUILD-UP OU'TRA6foo; At-ID ThERE ARE 1\-tOSE 1l-IAT

LOI/£ 15 LIKE A ROLLfR-SOME WAIT PI1TIENTLi CoASTER. You WIIIT £NJ"O'{ IJ.if; RID£. fXP£CTA110NS liND ARE N£Vt:R ft£1 lo RIDE: A-TALL. 
f't LON&, 111'1& IN LINE 
ULiiMA1T t:i DISAF'POINTW. 

FoR. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
1 DOl'lT DO MM'\1 GOOO. '4\S\JA\..\IE. AC.Wf<.U.'!, l'M AN~ t-\OR£. BEIN<; n\'E. C)l'l\_'\ V\SUf..l\I\~G I OEC.IDEO l't'l\ 45-~EP-R-QD II'\ YOll I~ ~ORE OF f.. F"IR'ST @AOE. rR.Ac.nOI'-l. "V\S\Jf\1:' PERSoN. HELP Mt. [)() T\-\Est. <l('? 
CROSSWORD OF INTEREST 
ACROSS 30 Epigram: Part II 66 More withered 32 Charter 67 Juin through 
t Squealer 
aout

4 Some 36 Stuttering 68 Feel
vestments Roscoe 69 Bruce or Laura
a Significant pile 37 Epigram: Part Ill 
of films 

of stones 41 Melville novel 
70Carmine

t3 Wrath 43 Plus item t4 Various: Comb. 44 Epigram: Part IV form 47 He is often able DOWN t& "L.A. Law" role 52 "Lord, is-?":
Matt. 26:22 t Competitors
t7 TV-program 
2 Frigid; bleak 
1 recorder 53 First-born 
3 Dennis the 
ta Hair holder 
57 "The..Forsyte 

Menace, e.g. 
19 Marie 
4 Cathedral 

Antoinette, e.g. 58 End of the 
section 

I 20 Start of an epigram 
5 Compatriots 
ep1gram &t Brazilian state . 23 King of beasts 
6 Cook on a grill 
63 Century plant 

7 Mine section 
24 Bushing 64 Fall behind 25-de France 65 Sell one_ of a Calif. artist goods colony
28 Funny guy 
9 Kind of way or code 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE to Start 11 Old Japanese coin 
35Caen 48 Hardwood tree 55 Encouraged, 


write-up word 
connectives 49 "Marilyn" author with "on" 
t5 Vain 
37 "-troubled so Akin on Dad's 56 Delusion's waters": M. partner

side 22 Eggs Henry 59 Is under the 
51 Henpecked
38 Cry of triumph weather
54 Acronym for 

substance 39 Town in W.Va. 60 Sea swallow 
genes' 40 Suffix with macromole­61 Kind of relief 29 Boxing's Jersey cules 62 Actor Vigoda DINING HALL "greatest" 4t Geisha's 31 U.S.A. waistband 
Get answers to any three clues

distaffer 42 Convened 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
45 Soup garnish 5656 (75¢ each minute).

34 Draft letters 46 Hebrew judge 



GET THE FACTS 
Most students think "everyone" drinks a Jot and frequently. This is not true. Every year students are drinking Jess and with Jess frequency. 
"'  10% of students do not drink.  
"'  25% of students drink only once a  month  
or not at all.  


"By pem1ission ofjobmzy Hart atzd Creators Syndicate, Inc." 
------~--~~ 

-.. 

SPORTS 

page 20 Wednesday, September I, 1993 
Book sources claim misrepresentation 
By DAVID KJNNEY him about an Askin at the former player's Editor-in-Chief incident that 
home Sunday. was to be "We went over the book, and 
At least three sources quoted reported in when we were finished he in "Under the Tarnished Dome: the book. stood up and said, 'I want to How Notre Dame Betrayed Its Askin agreed tell you, I'm kind of proud of Ideals for Football Glory" said to discuss the what I've said in this book,"' today that authors Douglas incident so he Yaeger said. "Somebody's got Looney and Don Yaeger mis­would have to him.... Two days later he's represented their views, and some control Gerry Faust calling something 'outright former player John Askin said over what was fraud'?" the authors reneged on promis­published. Askin said Yaeger assured es to allow him final say on the "I agreed based on the fact him that it was not a negative use of his quotes. that Don Yaeger told me not book, but none of his positive 
In the book, released Mon­once, not twice, but over six experiences about Notre Dame day in South Bend, the authors times that I could physically sit were included. "He published allege that Holtz lied about his down with him and edit any of only negative quotes that were knowledge of NCAA violations my quotes before the final tran­obtained in a controlled and at the University of Minnesota script of the book was printed," manipulative manner and used and accuse him of abusing he added. out of context." players and staff and ignoring "I feel betrayed because Don steroid use while at Notre Yaeger ... misrepresented my But Yaeger stressed that Dame. "Tarnished Dome" is quotes based on the sole fact Askin's criticism was directed slated for a Sept. 7 release na­that he did not honor his at Holtz, not Notre Dame. Askin tionally. solemn promise to allow me to could not be reached for com­
Askin, Gerry Faust, 1981-85 read and edit the final tran­ment at press time. Notre Dame head coach, and script," Askin wrote. Faust, now head football Frank Broyles, athletic director In the book's opening page, coach at the University of at the University of Arkansas Askin labels Holtz a hypocrite. Akron, also wrote that the au­during Holtz's tenure, issued "Lou Holtz would never stand thors misrepresented his views. separate statements pledging for people to treat him like he "Lou Holtz is a great friend and their support of Holtz and de­treats others," he adds. coach and has done an out­crying the author's presenta­standing job at Notre Dame," tion of their views. Although the the book's pub­he said. "I support him 
"This is outright fraud," lisher, Simon & Schuster, unequivocally." wrote Askin in a letter to Ath­ordered the authors to remain Broyles also defended Holtz letic Director Dick Rosenthal silent until the release, Yaeger and his treatment of his play­yesterday. spoke to the Associated Press ers. "He ran a great program 
Askin, a Notre Dame offen­Tuesday to refute Askin's with total integrity and with full sive lineman from 1983-86, charges. wrote that Yaeger approached Yaeger said he met with see BOOK I page 15 
Despite controversy Northwestern is Holtz's only concern 
ByjASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
First things first. Lou Holtz has not read the book, he doesn't plan to read the hook and he will not answer any questions about the book. · · 
That is not to say that the release of "Under the Tarnh!hed Dome" hasn't taken its tQU on Holtz. He appeared preoccupied Tuesday in his tlrst weekl~ press confere.nce ofthe 1993 season. 
Holtz deflected questions about the book, instead turn­ing his attention to Northwestern, the task at hand in Saturday's season­opener at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Senior Kevin McDougal is the starting quarterback by default and junior Paul Failla will also see action against the Wildcats. 
"Kevin McDougal will start and Failla will play." Holtz said. "You could see Failla in the game in the first half." 
Freshman standout Ron 

Powlus was expected to get the nod until he broke his right collarbone in Saturday's scrimmage, confusing an already muddled quarterback picture. 
There is a possibility that Powlus could be back in uni­form late this season. 
"I think he will play in 1993," Holtz said. "I definite­ly plan on him playing during the course of the season." 
Northwestern limped to a 3­8 record in 1992 under first­year coach Gary Barnett, but they return some talented players, including dark horse Heisman Trophy candidate Lee Gissendaner. Quarterback Len Williams also returns to lead the Wildcat offense. 
"I can't disagree with Gary Barnett when he said Northwestern is as talented as any team in the nation at the skill positions," Holtz com· mented. 
Defensively, Notre Dame counters with one of its 
see LOU I page 15 

Irish volleyball opens season against Valparaiso 
By JENNY MARTEN without being too nervous. Hopefully 
Associate Sports Editor we're going to try some different line­
ups out and get some different people 
some experience." 

The 18th-ranked Notre Dame volley­Slated to start for Notre Dame are ball team gets its season underway senior Janelle Karlan at setter, fresh­tonight against Valparaiso and head man Jenny Birkner opposite her, junior coach Debbie Brown is confident that Christy Peters and junior Nicole Coates her team is ready after a solid presea­on the outside and seniors Julie Harris son. and Molly Stark in the middle. 
"I'm looking at how our preseason went and I feel really good about where Karlan, Peters and Stark are expected we are right now in the season," said to provide leadership and stability on Brown. "I think the team has worked the court in the early games while real hard and I think we've accom­Brown experiments with the lineup. plished a lot and I think we're playing The team has been trying different at a really high level for preseason. combinations in its six-on-six scrim­
mages in the preseason. 

"We'll be tested real early. I hope that The freshmen on the team including we do well. If we don't do well then I Kristina Ervin, Jen Briggs, Laura hope it's not something that going to Reckmeyer and Birkner will see playing shake our confidence." time tonight in order to prepare for cer­
The Irish take a 10-2 advantage in tain situations. the series into tonight's match including Also helping out will be Brett Hensel, last year's 3-0 win over the Crusaders. Dyan Boulac and Shannon Tuttle. Valparaiso features strong serving and The depth of the Irish team as well as a defense which will keep the ball com­its ball control will be valuable assets in ing back over the net. Leading the Irish the early part of the season. Brown will be three returning starters and says that because the team returns eight letterwinner's from last year's 30-serves so well it is hard to get a kill 8 squad. against the Irish. 
Brown sees Valparaiso as a good On the other hand, blocking and the team to play in the season opener side out offense are concerns for because the Crusaders will play tough, Brown. The side out offense is a big but the Irish should prevail. concern for the Irish coach because "if 
"I think its a really good opener for we side out well that means the other us. I think that it is real good to play team can't score points on us." some competition the first chance avail­able," said Brown. "I think that Valpo is This weekend, the Irish head to a team that will put some pressure on Kentucky for the Big Four Classic in us, but one that we should be able to which Notre Dame will face Indiana, play some different lineups against Kentucky and Louisville. 
Inside SPORTS 

SAINT MARY'S 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL New Athletic Director 
Big 10 teams prepare 
chosen for season 

see page 18 see page 17 

PRO FOOTBALL 
Former Irish players impact NFL see page 13 







