

Tuesday, September 21, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 17 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lafayette Women break silence in gender forum 
ByJULIE BARRETT 'Dogbook'."
burglaries 
Associate News Editor Statistics on rape and sexual assault opened the presentation Women need to break the si­given by seniors Gennie Hartel lence and claim their voices, and Michele Cummings, repre­

addressed 
articulating their thoughts and sentatives from Campus Al­ideas about issues affecting liance Against Rape (C.A.R.E.) 
By ANALISE TAYLOR them, said Sr. Regina Coli, a and Stop Offense Services
News Writer 
theology professor at Notre (S.O.S.),. Dame, during the gender rela­According to the statistics,
South Bend police officers tions forum last night titled"ND one out of four women areand Associate Director of Notre Women Speakout." raped or sexually assaulted inDame Security Phil Johnson The event, cosponsored by their lifetimes and most ofmet with the Student Senate ND Graduate and Undergradu­these women are between thelast night to discuss recent bur­ate Student Governments, drew ages of 18 and 24. 
glaries at Lafayette Square 
a mixed crowd of over 150 "This issue is very important Notre Dame and Saint Mary's at Notre Dame because most
STUDENT SENATE 
students, faculty and staff. The female students here at fall into 15 speakers, representing a this high risk group," HartelApartments. 
similar diversity, shared their said.
South Bend police have is­
thoughts and feelings about Hartel and Cummings ex­
sued a warrant for the arrest of being a woman at Notre Dame plained the services both a 23-year-old suspected of bur­through personal experiences, C.A.R.E. and S.O.S. offer, suchglarizing Lafayette after his fin­music and poetry. as a hotline and referral infor­gerprints were matched with "Women forget to speak, to mation for victims. 
those from two burglaries. 
know how to express them­Several speakers broached
"He's heavy into drugs, and selves," Coli said. According to the issue of diversity amongapparently works alone," said national surveys, most of these women at Notre Dame and theSouth Bend Police Chief Ron women are the more intelligent need for the University to ac­Marcinak. "We do believe he's ones who have difficulty in cept and appreciate their dif­responsible for a percentage, if 
speaking out their minds, ferences.
not a majority, of the crimes." 
bringing the issue closer to Sophomore Chandra JohnsonThe owner of the managing Notre Dame, Coli added. discussed her role in creatingcompany of Lafayette Square Several important issues se­Just a Sister Away (J.A.S.A.), aApartments has increased se­riously affecting women at group she said she helped or­curity at the complex since the Notre Dame that need to be ad­ganize for African Americanburglaries occurred. 
dressed by the University as a women on campus.
"We are putting in additional whole include sexual assault, "When I came to Notre Dame, sirens, instituting fencing, and eating disorders and relation­I felt there was something miss­providing 24-hour, seven-days­

ships between women and ing in the community." shea-week security," said Chris 
men, according to Rita Donley, said. "My mother asked meMatteo, owner of Matteo Enter­assistant director of ND Coun­what I was going to do about it, prises, the managing company 
seling Center. so I got a group of friendsof Lafayette. 
"Especially concerning the is­together and formed (J.A.S.A.).
Upgraded security systems sue of eating disorders, (the The group provides a commu­would be included in the cost of University) has a long way to nity for African Americanthe rent, Matteo said. 
go," she said. "I have noticed women where they can shareStudents living at the com­that appearance is a very big together their aspirations, ideas plex should lock their doors deal at Notre Dame, especially and goals."
and make sure windows are with things like the Freshman Johnson invited all interested
closed and secured, said 
Student Directory commonly in joining the group to their known by students as the 
see SENATE I page 4 see FORUM I page 4 
Saint Mary's awarded Lily O'Connor: Miracles grant for cultural diversity signify call to conversion 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH Several administrative offices 
News Writer were included in discussion for By NANCY DUNN cause it is impossible for a per­ways to use the grant. Included News Writer son to be alive under such con­The Saint Mary's Office of in the group were the Office of ditions, this doctor promptly Multicultural Affairs has been Multicultural Affairs, Assistant Apparitions are a "calling to gave up medicine and entered awarded a three-year grant of Dean of Faculty Patrick White, conversion," according to Fa­the seminary, said O'Connor. $150,000 by the Lily Director of Financial Aid Mary ther Edward O'Connor, associ­O'Connor also referred to the 
Endowment, according to Nucciarone, Director of ate professor of theology at story of a priest who was hav­Maricela Ramirez, director of Counseling and Career Notre Dame. in a lecture given ing doubts about his religious the Office of Multicultural Development Center Mary last night at the Hesburgh calling. The priest blessed a 
Affairs. DePauw. Director of Residence Library Auditorium. statue, and when it began to The money will be applied to Life Sherri Crahen, Director of "We are living in a time when weep, he attempted to ignore a variety of programs designed the Admissions Office Mary Pat more signs are being produced this sign, but then developed 
to improve racial and ethnic di­Nolan, Freshman Academic by our Lord than ever before in the stigmata. Local church au­versity in the campus climate, Advisor Susan Vanek and Isis the history of the Earth," thorities did not want to publi­she said. Quinteros, member of the O'Connor said. cize the event so they told the
a 
O'Connor briefly mentioned priest to remain silent, he said. 

"The goal is to enrich the Faculty Senate. 
learning environment and cre­The money will fund an eval­well-known miracles, including The next Sunday during mass the Dancing Sun at Fatima, a statue of Mary began to weep
ate a truly multicultural en­uation of the Office of 
vironment," Ramirez said. Multicultural Affairs in an then discussed miracles such as in front of all of the parish­Student and staff opinion was effort to assess the effective­the stigmata and weeping stat­ioners. The external signs now 
have begun abating, but the

a major influence in drawing ness of its programs and the ues. 
One of his examples con­spiritual phenomena areup a proposal to the Lily campus climate in general, 

Endowment, Ramirez said. Ramirez said. cerned Martha Robin, who he increasing. The priest no Saint Mary's was one of 65 Other proposed uses include said relived the passion of Je­longer doubts his mission and colleges invited to participate the organization of a faculty sus every Friday for fifty years. many parishioners have re­She bled from her head turned to the Church, said
and one of 10 colleges to re­workshop on multiculturalism as ceive a monetary award. that involves the Board of though she was wearing a O'Connor. Surveys were taken in the Regents, and the presentation crown of thorns and received These miracles have been oc­
no nourishment except for the curring all over the world, he

spring of 1993 to assess the of an annual award who best 
goals of both faculty and the promotes ethnic diversity at blessed sacrament, said said. In fact, many of the mes­O'Connor. sages people claim to have re­
student body. Included in the Saint Mary's Ramirez said. student body were ethnic orga­The fund will be utilized to He said that Robin was exam­ceived from Mary stress the nizations such as the Sisters of support faculty research as ap-ined by a medical doctor who importance of reunifying the 
Nefertiti, LaFuerza and the discovered that her spinal cord Church and uniting people re-Pacific Basin Society. was completely severed. Be-
see GRANT I page 4 see MIRACLES I page 4 




-~-------------------------------­

page 2 Tuesday, September 21, 1993
The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 




A nevv Church 
to contbat 
stagnancy 
There is a growing dis­content among Catholics in this country. The Pope's recent visit to the United States is proof of this. 

The Pope has tried to strengthen the Vatican's influence on the American Catholic church by Mark Krejci

ordaining many ultra­
Assistant
conservative bishops. 

Viewpoint Editor 
Almost si!lce its found­ing, however, the Catholic Church in America has been increas­ingly disgruntled at the Vatican's sluggish capacity for change and reform. 
Some of the more controversial and divisive issues facing the church today are women in the priesthood, contraception, homosexuality, and divorce. 
To add to the contraception controversy, in the coming months the Pope will issue a new encyclical reiterating the church's staunch position against artificial birth control (even for married couples) as stated before in Humanae Vitae. 
Despite this, 62% of American Catholics dis­agree with the church's position on birth con­trol, according to a Newsweek poll. In fact, 63% said they or other Catholics they know use birth control themselves. 
Are these people not "good" Catholics? 
Are their souls in a state of ignominy? 
Have they bought a one way ticket to the 
eternal inferno? llow sad it is to think so many people are going to hell over condoms. 
It took the Catholic Church 300 years to par­don Galileo for saying the earth revolved around the sun. Will it take 300 more for it to realize sex is not only for procreation? 
This view limits a couple's ability to express their mutual love in the most intimate way while being able to regulate their family's size. 
My argument, then, is that a branch of the Catholic church in America should separate itself from the Vatican and form an American Catholic Church. 
This church.would still be Catholic (although the Vatican would never recognize it) in the sense that almost all doctrine would be the same. 
The American Catholic Church, however, would be more tolerant, reasonable, and pro­gressive with regard to social issues. 
Countless numbers of Catholics feel alienated and chastised because of the church's treat­ment of women, homosexuals, and divorced people, women in particular. 
The main issue in these controversies is the question of infallibility of church doctrine. 
It seems pretentious that a small body of individuals can proclaim that all its rulings represent the will of Christ. 
The fact is that there have been many past church doctrines which were later deemed by the church to be mistaken. 
To say that any human or doctrine written by humans is infallible goes against what history has taught us.. 
If Notre Dame were to join the American Catholic Church, perhaps it could maintain a Catholic character while escaping the decline of a church facing mass discontent and intel­lectual stagnancy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production Emily Hage Lynn Bauwens Theresa Aleman Mark Ziro John Lucas Jackie Moser 
Sports Accent Brian Kubicki Susan McGovern Bryan Connoly Graphics Lab Tech Chris Weirup John Bingham 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Astronomers get glimpse of 'dark matter' 
NEW YORK 

Astronomers searching millions of stars nightly have exciting new evidence that they have taken their first look at the mysterious dark matter that makes up as much as 90 percent of the universe. 
An American team and a French team independently reported evidence Monday that the dark matter is made up of billions of Jupiter-sized objects, a finding that could resolve a 50-year-old puzzle of central importance in modern astronomy. 
"Eight days ago, a couple of members of the team noticed this astounding event, which has caused enor­mous excitement amongst us," said the head of the American team, Charles Alcock of Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California. 
Alcock said it is impossible to be certain that dark mat­ter has been seen until more examples are observed. But if the fmdings are confirmed, they represent an answer to what he called "the most important unsolved problem facing astronomy in the 1990s." 
The detection and study of dark matter could resolve questions about whether the universe will continue to expand, or will stop expanding and perhaps collapse, astronomers said. 
"It's an important thing, and if more are found ev­eryone will point back to these as the first," said Mario Mateo, an astronomer at the University of Michigan who is also searching for dark matter. He agreed with Alcock, however, that caution was in order until the events were confirmed. 
Police clear actor in apartment death 
LOS ANGELES 

James Caan wasn't involved in the death of a man who lost his footing and fell eight stories from an apartment where the actor was staying, authorities said Monday. 
Police detectives, who questioned Caan for nine hours Saturday about the death of Mark Schwartz, determined 
the death was an accident. 
"It appears he lost his footing and fell to his death," Detective Vic Pietrantoni said in a report released Monday. 
Caan, 53, said that Schwartz, 25, was a friend of the man who owned the apartment where Caan spent the night. He said he used the apartment 


to get away from telephone calls. 
James

Pietrantoni said evidence indicated 
Caan

that Schwartz probably had tried unsuccessfully to wake Caan. "Mr. Schwartz then attempted to access the apartment via the balcony from an adjacent fire escape landing," he wrote. 
The body was discovered Saturday morning. 
Asbestos confuses first day of classes 
NEW YORK The nation's largest school system was present but tardy Monday. Classes that were supposed to have begun Sept. 9 for 1 million children finally got under way. 
The asbestos scare that delayed opening day kept some facilities closed, and many youngsters faced extra bus rides to unfamiliar schools for shortened sessions in crowded classrooms. 
Students at one closed elementary school had to walk seven blocks to an alternate campus when buses failed to show. Angry parents demonstrated outside several schools. One would-be kindergartener wound up at­tending a college radiology class, with his mother. 

Comparing international health care systems 
How the U.S. health care system compares to 
other Industrialized countrtea: 
·~MI-.J~OOE 
u.s. Canada France Germany Japan U.K. 
Health spending 1970 $346 $274 $192 $199 $126 $144 per capita 1990 2,566 1,795 1,379 1,287 1,113 909 
Health ependlng as 12.4% 9.0 8.9 8.1 6.5 6.1 percent of GOP 
Number of doctors 

234 215 250 281 157 137 
per 1,000 population 

Life Men 71.5 13.0 72.3 71.8 76.5 72.4 expectancy Women 78.3 80-2 81.6 78.4 82.3 78.1 
Three basic models 

Health car~~ systems in d!lveloped countries fall into three basic models: Anational health ..r) Asocial Insurance ..r ) Aprivate
"" ~ervlce model with model providing inaurance model universal coverage univ8!Sal coverage 1 ~ \ with employer-
J

and general --1 under $0Clal security, J based or tax·finai)C8(! government financed by contributions paid individual purchase of ownel'$lllp ol the facilities by empiQyl)rs and employeas. priVate health Insurance and doeiOI$ as public In C.nada, contributions are and private ownel'$llip employee&: Examples: made to agovemmant entity. and control of inputs to U.K., Spain, Italy, Greece In France and Germany, the health sector. The and Portugal. contributions are going to U.S. and South Africa 
non-profrt funds with national are the only examples of negotiation on lees. Japan lhl$ system.also haa acompulsory system that rellas heavily on employer-based coverage. 
"-------~----~---------------~ 
Sources: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. AFL.CIO, WHO API Jeff Magness 
As healthcare costs continue to skyrocket, America com­pares unfavorably with comparable healthcare systems in other countries. See related stories page 6. 
Youth sentenced to die for school killings 
NAPA, Calif. 

A former high school student was sentenced Monday to death for killing the civics teacher who flunked him and three students at his old school. 
Eric Houston, 22, was convicted in July for the May 1, 1992, rampage at the school in Olivehurst, 40 miles north of Sacramento. In addition to the killings, he held 85 stu­dents hostage for 8 1/2 hours before surrendering. 
A jury had recommended the death sentence Aug. 16. 
Napa County Superior Court Judge W. Scott Snowden, who sentenced Houston after a two-day hearing, described him as "an enigma" and said he felt sadness in sending him to death row. 
"I get no pleasure from doing this," the judge told Houston. "I will pray for you." 
Houston had pleaded innocent by reason of insanity. ''I'm still convinced that Eric is suffering from a very, very severe mental disorder," said defense attorney Julian Macias. 
Also killed were Houston's former civics teacher, Robert Brens, and two other students, Judy Davis, 17, and Beamon Hill, 16. 
Brens had flunked Houston, preventing him from grad­uating. 
Four Marines killed in helicopter crash 
TWENTYNINE PALMS, Calif. 

Four Marines were killed Monday in the fourth fatal Marine Corps helicopter accident in California in as many weeks, authorities said. 
The crash raised the death toll to 12, with six aircraft wrecked. The UH-1 "Huey" was on a training mission when it crashed Monday morning at the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center, said Sgt. Tony Sinagra, a base spokesman. The cause of the crash was under investiga­tion, Sinagra said. 
The victims' names were withheld. The crew was attached to Marine Light Attack Helicopter Squadron 267 at Camp Pendleton, Calif. 

NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 21. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~~~c&l~4 (f ~ ~ 5~~;_,~ T-~1~;,;;. Rain ~;,;;;;~~ ·i;;:;;· ~~-:_ Sunny ~. ;loudy Cl~dy VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet . C1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Cairo 95 73 London 59 46 Chicago 65 56 Los Angeles 75 57
City H L 
Arlington Hts. 67 56 Cleveland 64 49 Minneapolis 56 48Athens 84 68 Dallas 98 74 New York 66 44Atlanta 89 67 Dubuque 67 58 Paris 79 54Bogota 68 54 Indianapolis 75 60 Philadelphia 67 46Boston 63 45 Jerusalem 84 66 Rome 88 66 

Tuesday, September 21, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page3 
Congress approves closings of military bases nationwide 
By DONNA CASSATA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congress sealed the fate of scores of military bases na­tionwide, approving recom­mendations to close 130 facili­ties and scale back 45 others in a money-saving effort that will cost tens of thousands of jobs. 
By a vote of 83-12 on Monday, the Senate rejected a motion to disapprove the work of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission. By law, the entire package takes effect unless both the Se­nate and House overturn the panel's proposals in their en­tirety. 
This marks the third round of base closures in five years, and another swipe at reducing mili­tary infrastructure is planned for 1995. 
The bulk of the direct job losses will be concentrated in three states. Hardest hit are California, slated to lose more than 40,000 military and civil­ian defense-related jobs; Florida, facing the loss of 22,000 jobs, and South Carolina, which is expected to lose more than 14,700 jobs. 
Among the major installations on the list are Alameda Naval Air Station in California, the Orlando Naval Training Center in Florida and the Charleston Naval Station and Naval Shipyard in South Carolina. 
Slated for closure are 35 major bases and 95 minor facil­ities; 27 major and 18 minor installations will be realigned. 
The commission estimated that closing the bases will save about $4 billion from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1999 after one­time closure costs of $7 billion. Savings after the turn of the century will be about $2.3 bil­lion annually. 
Reflecting the general con­sensus that the closures were a done deal, no motion of disap­proval surfaced in the House and only nine senators spoke on the issue during Monday's 





SOPHOMORES! GET INVOLVED 
Apply for the position of 
JPW Sophomore Committee Chairperson! 
Applications available at LaFortune information desk September 20--24. Application deadline September 24! 
What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Appalachia Seminar 
October 24-29, 1993 
• 
Work, play, and learn with other volunteers at one of our sites in Kentucky, West Virgina, Tennessee, and Mississppi. 

• 
Receive !-credit in Theology. 

• 
Pick up Applications at the Center for Social Concerns. 


APPLICATIONS DUE: 
Tuesday, September 21, 1993 


low-key debate. 
Senate Armed Services Chairman Sam Nunn, D-Ga., expressed his sympathy for the affected communities, but ar­gued that if the bases aren't closed, the military will have to reduce the size of its force. 
"One way or another people are going to lose jobs," Nunn said. 
The senator warned that fail­ure to shut down installations would return the military to the hollow armed services of the 1970s when the United States "kept the bases and eroded readiness of forces to fight." 
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D­Calif., a sponsor of the reso­lution to reject the closings, de­scribed her .effort as "a last­ditch plea." She contended that the panel failed to acknowledge the economic impact of its deci­sions, especially in her state."It's almost like a dooms­day machine. It goes on and on regardless of what happens," Feinstein said of the commis­sion. 
Sen. John Glenn, a member of the Armed Services Committee, reminded his colleagues that as the military reduces the num­ber of troops and weapons, base closings are a necessary, if painful, process. 
"We just can't afford to keep everything open that we would like to keep open all over the country," the Ohio Democrat said. "The Cold War has passed us. We're in a time of slow­down.... We don't need all these bases, and basically we can't continue to pay for them." 

Earlier this year, the four mil­itary services made their rec­ommendations to Defense Secretary Les Aspin, who then submitted his proposal on clo­sures and realignments to the commission on March 12. 
The panel traveled to bases around the country and held scores of hearings before five days of public debate and votes on the final list in late June. The commission rejected the Pentagon's recommendation to close six major installations but accepted the rest of its closure proposals. 
The panel submitted its rec­ommendations to President Clinton on July 1; it took him less than 24 hours to approve the list and send it to Congress. The president faced an up-or­down decision on the list in its entirety. 
In July, the Senate Armed Services Committee endorsed the commission's work by voice vote as even lawmakers whose states will be hit hard by the closures backed the findings. 
The Defense Department is scheduled to begin closing the bases in January although it is still in the process of shutting facilities from the two previous rounds. 
Sponsoring the Senate resolu­tion were Sens. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif.; Alfonse D'Amato, R­N.Y.; Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y.; Ernest Hollings, D-S.C., Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., and Feinstein. 

WELCOME BACK L 0 200Jo Discount on full Service 7-. Must have Student ID ou v full Service Salon Hair • Skin • Nails 1357 N Ironwood AVEDA~Corner of Edison TilE ART AND SCIENCE t 11' rURE FLOWER ANn I'LANT ESSENCES&Ironwood Hair Care • Skin Care • Colour Cosnll'lirs  
The Law School presents Pamela Carter, Attorney General ol Indiana on Race, Sex, and the Law: How a Black Woman Became AttorneJ General and How She Intends to Use The Power of that Office Wednesday, September 22nd Noon in the Law School Courtroom  

··---------·--·----~-~--~----­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 21, 1993 
dents continues to rise." 
Other advances that have

Forum Timetable proposed to cut pesticide use 
taken place at Notre Dame re­garding women and their plight 

continued from page 1 By RITA BEAMISH The plan also would signifi­Among its principal propos­
include a $50,000 endowment 

Associated Press cantly curtail the weighting of als, the administration will askfirst meeting on Wednesday, from the University Provost for economic impact on farmers in Congress to relax a blanket banSept. 22 from 7-8:30 p.m. the Gender Studies Department WASHINGTON deciding whether a pesticide on cancer-causing pesticides in
Speaking openly about her and the continued push for 
The Clinton administration should be allowed, relying in­processed foods. 
own homosexuality, NO senior University recognition of a will propose reducing use of stead on a "health-based stan­In place of the so-called De­Courtenay Redis talked about Women's Resource Center. 
pesticides on crops by setting a dard." laney clause barring even tracethe fear and hesitancy many The Center has already re­women feel at Notre Dame ceived support from several 
timetable for conversion to The Agriculture Department, amounts of carcinogens, the about admitting and taking faculty and student groups on alternatives such as natural Environmental Protection administration is endorsing a pride in who they are. campus, and was granted tem­pest killers and biological engi­Agency and Food and Drug "negligible risk" standard that "I am very proud about who I porary office space in last neering, administration officials Administration developed the will permit small traces if the am and the fact that I am a les­week's Undergraduate Student said Monday. package to update the nation's amounts are deemed to pose
bian," she said, "but I also want Government meeting to set up a At the same, the administra­food safety laws and regulation. insignificant risk to human people not only to recognize me resource library and provide a tion would relax the current They incorporated many of the health. The accepted standard as a lesbian but also to realize meeting place for women's blanket ban on cancer-causing findings from the June report would be arisk of no more thanthat there is much more to me groups on campus. 
pesticides in processed foods, by the National Academy of one added cancer case for ev­as a person and a woman than After the speakers were fin­according to the officials and Sciences, which found the gov­ery million people, but the gov­just that." ished, several students and one congressional aides who spoke ernment was inadequately pro­ernment would not lock thatOther speakers included Pa­faculty member took advantage on condition of anonymity. tecting American children from standard into law. 
tricia O'Hara. vice president of of the open floor to speak about 
ND Student Affairs, and Sr. their own thoughts about the The administration's food­pesticide risk, one official said. According to officials from Kathleen Beatty, rector of forum and women's issues in safety package to be unveiled The package has generated the government agencies Lyons Hall, who gave their own general. Tuesday also addresses the intense interest from the agri­involved in preparing the pack­insights about being women 'Tm really excited about how special vulnerability of children cultural, chemical and food in­age, it also will contain provi­and the challenges they have tonight's forum went and hope to pesticides, they said. dustries, as well as environ­sions to: 
overcome to bring the women's that it will encourage people to Among its provisions, one of­mental groups. Some consumer movement to where it is today. speak up about some of these ficial said, will be a commit­and environmental rep­-Convert the nation from 
"When I went to Notre Dame issues and possibly get involved 
ment to developing a timetable resentatives pronounced the traditional pesticide use to 75Law School in 1971. there were in some of the groups men­within one year to reduce use administration's proposals percent "integrated pest man­only 10 women out of 160 stu­tioned," said Katie Glynn, Stu­of specific hazardous pesti­inadequate even before the fi­agement" techniques by thedents in the first year class and dent Government Women's cides. nal details were released. year 2000. Integrated pestno women on the faculty staff," Hesource Committee commis­management refers to a varietyO'Hara said. "Now there are sioner and one of the key orga­"And an undetermined number of methods, including spraying 
eight women out of 28 faculty nizers of the event. Senate of unlocked rooms have been 
members at the Law School Senior Mary Kate Kelly who broken into." only when a pest is detected and the number of women stu-attended the forum added, "I continued from page 1 South Bend police officers rather than on a fixed schedule, found the forum very inspiring using pesticides that target only
and campus security officials and hope to see much more Johnson. warned students to look out for a specific pest instead of affect­done about women's issues at These precautions do not only each other. ing natural predators as well,

Grant 

Notre Dame in the future." apply to off-campus students, "Crime prevention is a part­planting crops that encourage he said. nership," said South Bend Po­natural predators to fight crop­
continued from page 1 

"There have been over 20 lice Chief Ron Marcinak. 
destroying insects and develop­bike thefts on-campus since the "(Students) have to be cog­

plied to multiculturalism in the ing pest-resistant varieties. 
Miracles beginning of the term," he said. nizant of what is going on." 
college community, according to Ramirez. 
"The first objective is to assess the campus' intellectual. social, and cultural climate and identity changes necessary to create a truly diverse environ­ment that enables students, faculty and staff of diverse backgrounds to work and grow together, "Ramirez said. 
In the future, the office wants to initiate multicultural student councils in the residence halls composed of minority and non­minority students, she said. 
Another proposed use of the grant is the establishment of a mentor program between the faculty, minority students and members of the community, as well as tutoring, said Ramirez. 
According to the proposal, Saint Mary's wants to increase awareness in the college com­munity of the unique needs, in­terests and contributions of students and personnel of color. 


Budget 
continued from page 1 
outgoing advisor of RHA. 
The bill, if approved, would provide cable in Holy Cross Hall, McCandless Hall and Hegina North Hall lounges. The estimated fee for the installation is $100 per hall, to be paid by each hall council, Warfield said. 
• 
Augusta Hall was granted a $200 loan by HHA in order to screen and market sesquicen­tennial T-shirts. The loan was agreed to be repaid by Christ­mas break. 

•Other 
activities planned for the year include The Laugh Olympics, sponsored by the SAB and co-sponsored by RHA. Activities include relays in Regina and McCandless halls, bowling in the LeMans lobby and a tug of war at Augusta Hall, Wallace said. 

• 
RHA has also agreed to sponsor the annual Alcohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's and will begin planning the Little Sibs Weekend that will be held in February. 



continued from page 1 gardless of religion, added O'Connor. One popular explanation of this recent phenomena is that we are living in troubled times and people are imagining these occurrences in order to provide them with a sense of security.  SENIORS!  
O'Connor said these visions cannot be merely psychological because there is too much physical evidence. "Something real is happening here, we can­not brush it all off." According to O'Connor, these messages are "calling us to conversion." We are living in very serious times; God is very unhappy with the way man is living right now and severe punishment awaits those who do not convert now, said O'Connor. The messages always end on  JOIN THE SERVICE COMMITTEE We Need Your Help to Plan Events for the Year Informational Meeting Thursday Sept. 23 at 5 PM Dooley Room, 1st Floor LaFortune Dismas House Dinners Catholic Worker House Party for children at El Campito, Oct. 12 5/lOKRun  
a positive note and the punish­ment is always conditional on failure to repent. After the chastisement, the world will be purified and will be more glori­ous than ever before, according to O'Connor.  +many other events Questions: Call Regina Hoagland, 4-2687  
Train Your Brain LSAT, MCAT, GMAT& GRE. L For more information KAPLAN The answer to the te•t questioncall 1-800-KAP-TEST  

~-~ -~ ----~~-.-~---~~­
Tuesday, September 21, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
In region in flux, the left makes comeback 


Bosnia's leaders meet to try to salvage plan 
By FRANK BAJAK 
Associated Press 
WARSAW 

A return of repressive Communist governments is highly unlikely in newly demo­cratic eastern Europe, but vot­ers are sounding a warning: They won't tolerate capitalism unless it wears a human face. 
The party elites who dined on caviar while plain folks queued for bread were booted from government in Hungary, Poland and Bulgaria, along with Czechoslovakia before its divorce and East Germany be­fore its disappearance. 
Nevertheless, as the former Polish Communists' first-place finish in Sunday's elections showed, the left's constituency is coming back. People are overwhelmed by the daunting uncertainties of a brave new free-market world. 
When your job in a dying state industry is in jeopardy or you're struggling to live on an $85.-a-month pension, nostalgia 
HEALTH CARE PRESENTATION Informational Session 
All Graduate Students, Faculty & Staff Invited! 
Wednesday, Sept. 22nd@ 7 PM Montgomery Theatre (LaFortune) 
Special Guest-Ms. Carol Seager Director of University Healtlt Services 
-sponsored by the GRADUATE STUDENT UNION ­
can emerge for the burlap sack of state-sponsored socialism. 
"The proletariat is still think­ing about its stomach. It hasn't changed," said Krakow book­store owner Zbigniew Suzczynski. "It still doesn't want to learn about the free market." 
The first backlash of the emancipated proletariat came in Lithuania last year. Voters returned former Communist leader Algirdas Brazauskas to power, rejecting the musicolo­gist premier who led the break from Moscow. 
Brazauskas was chosen for his experience, Vytautas Landsbergis rejected as an amateur politician who failed to better the lot of a people sud­denly cut off from cheap Russian oil and gas. 
The hardships borne of trying to build a market economy on the ruins of obsolete, collapsing heavy industries -with mini­mal help from Western in­vestors -have taken their toll. 
In Poland, Western invest­ment has been slightly better but the social safety net has worn so thin that two in five people live in poverty or on its fringes. Disgust on their faces, workers in fraying clothes watch from bus stops as gleam­ing BMWs of the burgeoning entrepreneurial class whiz by. 

Thus few Polish commenta­tors were surprised by Sunday's strong showing by the Democratic Left Alliance, which promises to stick to free-market reforms. 
In both Poland and Lithuania "the Communist comeback is out of disgust for the ultra free­market politics and the sheer ineptitude of democratic na­tionalist governments," said Warsaw columnist Konstanty Gebert. 
The centrist parties that formed the core of Poland's previous governing coalition have been widely criticized for not uniting against the former Communists, who were repack­aged with young, articulate leaders. 
By JASMINA KUZMANOVIC 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB 

Bosnia's three warring fac­tions held a surprise meeting on a British aircraft carrier in the Adriatic Sea Monday, but failed anew in their quest for peace, Croatia's state news agency reported. 
The failure apparently scut­tled mediators' plans for all sides to sign a peace plan Tuesday in Bosnia's besieged capital, Sarajevo. 
Croatia's HINA news agency quoted mediators' spokesman John Mills as saying there were "no steps forward in negotia­tions" aboard the HMS Invincible. 
The biggest obstacle to the plan, which would divide Bosnia into Serb, Croat and Muslim ministates, appeared to be the Muslim-led govern­ment's demand for access to 
the Adriatic. 
Reports said Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic, Bosnian Croat leader Mate Bohan and Croatian President Franjo Tudjman were at the meeting. HINA said that President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic also were aboard the carrier. 
The session was mediated by special envoys Lord Owen of the European Community and Thorvald Stoltenberg of the United Nations, who have said they hoped a plan could be ready for signing Tuesday. 
It was unclear why they chose the warship as a venue or how long negotiations might continue. 
A Serb member of Bosnia's collective presidency, Mirko Pejanovic, said earlier he be­lieved the Sarajevo meeting would be canceled and that talks might resume Tuesday in Split, Croatia. 
Peace talks collapsed Sept. 1 in Geneva when Serbs and Croats balked at giving Izetbegovic more territory for what would be a landlocked, Muslim-dominated state in cen­tral Bosnia. 
Tudjman also refused to guarantee access to the sea through the port ofNeum. Now, however, he appears ready to offer access to the nearby Croatian port of Ploce. 
War broke out 18 months ago when Serbs rebelled after 
Bosnia's Muslims and Croats voted for independence from Serb-dominated Yugoslavia. Up to 200,000 people are dead or missing, and more than 2 mil­lion homeless. 
Apparently ignoring a cease­fire that was to have taken ef­fect Saturday, Bosnian gov­ernment forces kept pushing on the northern and southern ends of a front line running through central Bosnia, in an appaprent effort to secure supply routes this winter. 
BENGAL BOUTS NOVICE TRAINING 
Begins Monday, September 27 
Meet just inside Gate 3 ofthe J.A.C.C. at 4:00pm for an informational meeting 





ST.IDWARD'S 
HALL FORUM 
Father Beauchamp 
Executive Vice President 
speaks on 
"TARNISH AND THE DOME" 

Wednesday, September 22 7:00p.m. At St. Edward's Hall 


PROCTER & GAMBLE 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DNISION 
Invites interested students to learn more about career and internship opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! 
'• 


PRESENTATION AND PIZZA 
Wednesday, September 22 at 7p.m. Morris Inn-Alumni Room 
For Students Majoring in: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, CAPP, MBA 
(Visit P&G at Industry Day, as well!) 
-----~~------­
~~------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
page 6 
Health plan 
foes lobby 
Congress 

By JIM DRINKARD Associated Pr= 
WASHINGTON 

A cafeteria in a House office building was trans­formed into an elegant hall. Tiny white lights twink.Jed in tall potted trees brought in for the occasion. Food from WMhington's best restau­rants was piled high, and drinks flowed freely. 
The guests of honor were 150 members of Congress, invited In to meet with local restaurateurs and hear a pri· vate lobbying pitch against President Clinton's health care plan. 
For their trouble, lawmak­ers were handed gifts on the way out -silver-plated Chippendale mint dishes. 
From small businesses that would be required for the first time to provide employee health benefits to tobacco giants expecting a huge tax increase, a massive lobbying campaign is under way to alter the Clinton plan even bet'ore it is unveiled. 
The aim of lobbyists is to persuade Congress, which gets the next crack at the plan, to make changes they couldn't cajole from the White House. While Clinton Invited input from virtually every economic sector and major interest group, some feel left out. 
"There are some groups in this that were much more equal than others," said John Motley, lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, which has 600,000 small business members nationwide. 
Motley said his group con· eluded in March that the White House was not listen· ing to its concerns, and turned its attention to Capitol Hill. 
It is currently organizing a grass roots campaign that could include putting posters in stores across America opposing mandated employer health payments. The goal is to ensure every time a mem­ber of Congress goes to a dry cleaner or another small business, he or she gets the message. 
From restaurant owners. the pitch is similar: Forcing employers to pay for health Insurance for all workers would clobber the food ser­vice industry, which often doesn't provide health bene­fits and operates on thin prof­It margins. 

Tuesday, September 21, 1993
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 



Clintons court doctors, lawmakers on plan 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Counting down to Wednesday night's unveiling, President Clinton honed his health-reform sales pitch before top doctors and sent his wife to Capitol Hill to brief law­makers Monday on the radical surgery planned for the U.S. health system. 
Clinton also got a strong boost from Dr. C. Everett Koop, the surgeon general under Republican Presidents Reagan and Bush, who said Clinton had already accomplished more to solve the nation's health woes "than all of his living predeces­sors put together." 
But questions remained about the costs and cuts imbedded in Clinton's $700 billion plan to ensure health coverage for all Americans while slamming the brakes on medical inflation. 
And Republican party chair­man Haley Barbour exhorted state GOP leaders to take the offensive against the Clinton plan. He said in a memo that Republicans cannot afford to "sit on our hands while the Clintons try to pull the wool over the country's eyes." 
White House Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers left open the possibility Clinton may deliver Wednesday night's address to a joint session of Congress with­out making final decisions on how to pay for the program. 
She said the president wants to raise $105 billion by increas­ing "sin taxes," but has not determined bow much to raise cigarette taxes and whether to hit other items such as alcohol. 
And the White House was still smarting from Senate Finance Committee Chairman Daniel Patrick Moynihan's barb Sunday that Clinton's projected $238 billion in Medicare and Medicaid savings over five years was "a fantasy." 
"It doesn't help," said Myers. 
Clinton adviser Ira Magaziner told the National Association of Manufacturers that the presi­dent was considering a premi­um surcharge of "somewhat less than 1 percent" on busi­nesses to help support medical research and teaching hospi­tals. 



NOTRE DAME FINANCE CLUB CAREER NIGHT . 
I 



TONIGHT 
7--9 p.m. Monogram Room Joyce A.C.C. Firms attending 
(as of Sept. 14) : 
• 
Amway Corporation 

• 
Andersen Consulting 

• 
Arthur Andersen 

• 
Baxter Healthcare Corp. 

• 
Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. 

• 
Employment Solutions (IBM) 

• 
Goldman Sachs 

• 
Hewitt Associates 

• 
La Salle National Bank 


• 
Merri 1 Lynch 

• 
The Northern Trust Company 

• 
Northwestern Mutual Life 

• 
Old Kent Bank & Trust 

• 
PNC Bank Corp. 

• 
Procter & Gamble 

• 
Prudential Insurance 

• 
Radio Shack 

• 
SEI Corporation 


How reform will impact health care costs 
Health care spending (In trillions of dollare)... $1.8trillion 

1.7 1 Without reform ---------l 

Source: WorKing Group draft of Clinton's heafth plan 
••.and as a percentage of gross domestic product 
19 18 17 
16 
15 
14 1994 '95 '96 '97 '98 '99 2000 


API Jeff Magness 

Representatives will discuss opportunities at Andersen Consulting followed by a question and answer period. Refreshments will he served. 
All are Welcome! 
• Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company 
Seniors: Bring Resumes! Underclass: All Welcome To Talk To Firms 

BUSINESS ATTIRE 
Refreshments will be provided 
----~·-----~-~---~-------~-­



BUSINESS 
Tuesday, September 21, 1993 page7 

It's E}asy enough to add~~ the obvious cost of taxes. Less often considered is the indirect burden, as in waste, ineonve~ nienee, collection expenses and disruptions of the natural flow of commerce. ......M ••x.• 
Seeking lower sales ta!~s~ New Yorkers cross the Hudson River /to:;.,:. New: Jer$ey, Connecticut residents bu;y:1Jieit gasoline in New York~i~'f~Jl:q smokers in the District 
h Columbia purchase cigarettes in Virginia. 
Alaska, Delaware, Mont New Hampshire and Or~ggij enjoy an unusual amotttWo social and commercial.intera.c~ tion whh their neighbors because they impose no sales taxes. ott · rh" 
Such distortions of commef~ti clearly bave costs. And Jb~y
are rising. 
According to CQ. Clearing House, .a bus information publishe states and the District .... Columbia have raised their gasoline taxes since last sum~ mer. It found 14 states witb.cl!' ga.rette taxes that have.recent­
ly gone up. w•:wt;·::·· •...... 
While eyes are on federal tax increases, many local real estate taxes have been rising. And judging from increases in state and local spending, more tax increases, with potentially disruptive, costly conse* quences, are likely. x:j[j!t;;; 
The cost? Higher than alni'lisl anybody realizes, he says. Because taxes rose faster than output -excess spending, he calls it -the cost to the nation was more than $353 billion, an average loss of more Jlla'll. $1,400 for every person. ,.,_, 
In 1935, for example<.-tner~ were 4,000 pages of newregll­lations in the Federal Register; last year,. more than 65.000~ Measured in terms of lost out­put, Moore estimates the cOst to be at least $400 billion a year. 4ydF< 
In a paper for the National Center for. Policy ~aly~i~~. !l Dallas-based think tank, Mbore maintains that the growt:Q. 
o government, taxes and regula,'­tions produces a parasite e omy that drains productivi 
He begins with lawyers. Un 
about 1960, the ratiO'. 
lawyers to population was fair~ 
Jy constant. Since then; he 
says, the· number has tripled 
and the ratio oflawyers to pop­
ulation has more than doubled. 
He names national trade 
associations, many formed to 
protect member companies 
from what they viewed as pub" 
lie-sector inroads. In 1956 
there were 4,900 with a pres­
ence in Washington. Today, he 
says, there are 23,000. 
He includes lobbyists. In 
1960 there were 365 paid lob­
byists of the Senate. Today, be 
counts 40,100, or 400 lobbyists 
for every Senator. And political 
action committees: 608 in the 
mid 1970s, 4,400 in 1990. 
The thrust of estimates by Moore, Vedder and others is that the creation and enforce­ment of laws, regulations and mandates, costly in them~ selves, may be even more so in the diversion of energy from the private sector. 
Honda considers production in U.S. to cut costs 
By KOZO MIZOGUCHI save money by moving produc­Tanaka said Honda has Jeffrey Leestma, a Associared Press tion to the Third World. gained a three-year edge over spokesman for American Spokesman Shin Tanaka competitors planning more pro­Honda Motor Co., Honda's U.S. Battered by the high yen, said Monday that by 1996, duction in the United States by subsidiary, said the company Honda Motor Co. is seeking to Honda will make all of its moving now to supply the hasn't determined "whether cut costs by producing in the Accord and Civic models sold in American market for a particu­we'll need to hire more people, North America at its factories lar model completely from its or increase overtime -there's
United States all the Accord and Civic automobiles it sells in in Ohio. U.S. plants. many ways we can achieve that 
North America. The move will He said the company had Like many other blue-chip increase." cost 3,000 jobs in Japan by decided to step up existing Japanese companies, Honda Many job cuts are through 1996, but it is not certain to plans to shift production be­has been hit hard by the reces­attrition. But layoffs, once 
add jobs in the United States. cause of the yen's surge against sion. Last month, Honda report­unheard of in Japan, are 
Other Japanese car manu­the U.S. dollar this year. ed its profits fell 62 percent in becoming common. However, facturers, struggling to weather Some officials blame the the first quarter of the fiscal they are not on the scale of an economic downturn, are high yen for choking off what year because of the rising yen those in the United States dur­also considering stepped-up had been the start of a modest and lower sales of automobiles ing a recession. 
economic recovery. The new in Japan, North America and Moves like Honda's couldU.S. production. 
coalition government of Prime Europe. help alleviate U.S.-Japanese
By moving production to the United States, Honda can use Minister Morihiro Hosokawa trade tensions by cutting the more American workers who has said the recession is deeper As part of its restructuring, trade deficit. The American are paid in relatively cheap dol­and more long-lasting than the Honda will eliminate 3,000 of trade deficit with Japan bal­government had realized, and its 43,000 workers in Japan looned to nearly $50 billion last 
lars, instead of paying Japanese acknowledged the economy through attrition and reduced year. Almost two-thirds of that 
workers in expensive yen ­may stay in the doldrums for hiring by March 1996, Tanaka came from sales of automobiles 
much as American companies some time to come. said. and auto parts. 

France delays trade agreement talks Experts: 
By ELIZABETH D. WISE the accord. a request for even a minor Associared Press In Paris, angry farmers modification of the accord. So economyprotested possible cuts in subsi­far, American officials have France demanded Monday dies by burning Ronald refused to return to the bar­McDonald in effigy, blocking gaining table. 
that the European Community 
slacking

transportation and massing Belgium, which holds the
and the United States rewrite a outside government buildings community's rotating presiden­
farm subsidy agreement con­By JOHN D. McCWNMonday. cy, drew up a draft statement
sidered vital to concluding 
Associared Press 

world trade talks. The talks are held under the Monday evening that called for France's hard-line position auspices of the General EC negotiators to continue their 
Some of the nation's top

risked creating a deep rift Agreement on Tariffs and discussions with the United 
economists are projecting the among its EC partners. Most Trade. GATT chief Peter States in an effort to find "the economy will gradually slow have opposed altering the Sutherland has set a deadline clarifications and the necessary after the current quarter. 

of Dec. 15 for the long-delayed additions" to the agreement. 
trans-Atlantic deal and further 
"While our panelists do 

delaying the end of global trade negotiations. Several ministers said on 
expect a rebound in real

Hurd also said a collapse of entering the meeting that they
talks. 
growth to 3 percent in the third 

the global talks could provoke a would like to see minor
British Foreign Secretary quarter, that's as good as it
crisis within the EC, already changes in the U.S.-EC agree­
Douglas Hurd warned Monday gets," according to a summarysuffering from economic reces­ment.
that reopening the accord could of a survey of 41 top forecast­
sion and upheavals in member Ireland, Spain and a few
endanger the 116-nation 
ers by the National Association 

nations' currencies. other EC countries have
Uruguay Round negotiations, of Business Economists. The
"I cannot conceive of how expressed concern about the
which are designed to drop 
report was released Monday. 

the EC could continue with a impact of the reductions on
global barriers to trade. 
Still, there was no indication

normal transaction of business their farmers. France has 
French Foreign Minister 
that the economy would drift

if the EC is seen as having counted on German support for 
Alain Juppe told a special ses­back into recession soon, the
caused the collapse of the its request. The French­
sion of ministers of the 12­
survey found. It was conducted

Uruguay Round," Hurd's German partnership is at the
nation trading bloc he wanted in late August and presented to spokesman quoted him as say­hub of European unity.
them to order EC trade negotia­the association's annual meet­
ing. German Foreign Minister
tors to redo the deal struck 
ing in Chicago. A copy was

His remarks were in line Klaus Kinkel said Germany
with Washington last 
made available here. 

with reports that British Prime does not wish to renegotiate the 
November. 
The survey projects growth 

Minister John Major had farm accord. But he added: "An 
"What we want is for the in the gross domestic product
threatened that his government attempt must be made to meet
community to state clearly 
slowing to a 2.9 percent annual 

would refuse to cooperate with the concerns of our French
what its positions are," and tell 
rate from October throughcertain EC initiatives unless friends."

the negotiators to "resume the December, 2.4 percent in the
France backed down. French President Francois
discussion" with the 
first three months of 1994 and 

Luxembourg's foreign minis­Mitterrand and German
Americans, a spokesman quot­2.1 percent during the follow­
ter, Jacques Poos, also raised Chancellor Helmut Kohl met
ed Juppe as saying. 
ing three months. 

the specter of a community Monday in Paris, with the issue 
The GOP is the total amount breakdown. "This is very seri­high on the agenda. 

The present agreement 
of goods and services produced 

ous," he said. "It's not a crisis France, the community's
would slash subsidized farm in the United States. 
today, but it could be a crisis." largest farm producer, wants
exports. France contends it 
If so, the economy would

The ministers sought a com­smaller subsidy cuts and the
would unfairly hurt its farmers, expand 2.3 percent this year.
promise that would avoid EC's massive stockpiles of grain 
a 1-million-strong constituency While that is down from the 2.8 
reopening the negotiations with and beef spared. It also wants a
that has mounted sometimes percent forecast in an April
the United States but would tougher "peace clause" barring 
violent demonstrations against 
survey and 3.1 percent last

meet some French concerns. the United States from filing 
February, the business econo­

But it was unclear how the complaints against its farm 
mists' projection remains

Market in brief United States would respond to subsidy program. 
slightly more optimistic.September 20, 1993 DOW(Industrials) NYSE 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

BEAVERTON, Ore. PHILADELPHIA WASHINGTON 
Nike's six-year winning QVC Network Inc. started a Federal Reserve policy-mak­streak is coming to an end. bidding war for Paramount ers, who meet Tuesday, are not Following a disappointing Communications Inc., propos­likely to change short-term first-quarter earnings report, ing a $9.5 billion stock and interest rates for months, ex­
chairman Philip Knight told cash merger with Paramount. tending a yearlong period of shareholders Monday the But Paramount and Viacom monetary-policy stability into company would cut costs by Inc. reaffirmed their commit­1994, many economists believe. $50 million including a work­ment to a $7.5 billion deal. QVC The benchmark federal funds force reduction of 3 percent offered to exchange 0.893 rate -the rate charged among to 4 percent of its 9, 700 shares of QVC common stock banks on overnight loans ­workers. and $30 in cash for each has remained at 30-year low of 
Paramount share. 3 percent since Sept. 4, 1992. 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, September 21 , 1993 
THE OBSERVER The Top Ten reasons why the US. sh?uld continue to ruck yoo. in the. peace hlk.: 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 #10) At last -you cJ;et a decent shave Wtth an American rctzor. SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 o~t9) The. NRA 111aKe.s yo_u an hcoorary rnernber and 111Ciils you a new pistoL~8) You get millions 1n foreiqn aid' and a coontrv to re name:l larer
1993-94 General Board t*7)You can thlt1vll awa'J y:»-r l<1d's rock collection.
Editor-in-Chief 

David Kinney li:G) When -thill9,S get rouiSh in Gaza., ~can always ~-to Disneylanq_ \11!1 Managing Editor Business Manager #5) '0u. cr;et wlearn c:rowO. conbbl ~ U\Q LAP.D. 1l 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
=lf4) Now y:xi\1 k~ what ih like -tP deal WLth l:he reli~iru; r~1t­
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager.....................Anne Heroman *3)You Jqnd c1 bi~ 5~ contT~-_ Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Sreph Goldman 
#2)fales1;;iniqn retu~ are now tre Chrrl:on realth c:are pl:lrL
Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser 
· . M) Bnally, a mar~ for theBe hats.
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Banh Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. )ennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either in~titution. The news. is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials repreS<:nt the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Nc:ws Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, letters and Inside Columns presenc the views of rhe amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w all readers.. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Aa:enr/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNic:wpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
PAUL PEARSON IDEAS AND IDEALS 
Notre Dame has not succumbed to silliness 
I'm glad that there are people 
wanted to assign the novel out there who are willing to go 
Sophie's Choice to my class, that extra mile to make sure 
because it talks about making our schools are safe from nega­
tough decisions that are regret­tive influences. 
ted later. Like guns, drug dealers, AIDS 
When he went to the and Where's Waldo? 
Hammes Notre Dame Book Store ("On the Campus") to That's right. Where's Waldo? 
order copies of the book. They That book where you have to 
did let him order it, but they search through a literal sea of 
wanted him to warn his class humanity to pick out a friendly that the book contained mature traveler in a striped cap. language and very adult 
Oh, didn't you hear? Where's themes. Waldo? is pornographic smut. After reading it, I have to 
Hey, I'm not making this up. admit that Sophie's Choice is This is according to a report more sexually explicit than, from the anti-censorship group say, Where's Waldo?, but isn't People For the American Way. it odd that someone felt that a During the 1992-93 school classroom of ND students had year, someone, perhaps after to be warned about the graphic consuming too much Holy nature of a novel? Did they Cross Brothers Beer ("Drink it expect us to faint if we weren't and go straight to heaven."), warned? tried to have Where's Waldo? removed from a school's book­But, I'll have to admit, ND shelves for its "sexual content." has learned since then. In fact, 
now the university is getting 
Since reading that, I got my very liberated about its curric­hands on a copy of the dirty lit­sexual intercourse as "know­The cover work in question: ple concerned about a lot books ula. One of my undergraduate tle book. I've gone through it ing." The book that a lot of cen­Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel that deal with "Satanism" or friends tells me that she is now several times, and the only sors use to defend their efforts painting of God giving life to "un-Christian values." taking an English course on "sexual content" I can find is a to censor other books. Adam. According to the report, the "outspoken" readings in 20th­drawing of a woman on a I'll bet if you knew that the Boy, is the Pope going to be most frequent rationale for century literature. She says the beach who's lying down on a Bible was full of sexual explicit­ticked off when he finds out challenges was that the books course deals with homosexuali­towel with her bikini top ofT. ness, you'd pay a whole lot that somebody had the gall to or programs in question were ty in a less-than-condemning 
The entire drawing is 7/8 of more attention in theology put a picture of a naked man at odds with deeply-cherished way, that there is the potential an inch long (I measured), and class. on the chapel ceiling. religious beliefs. for truly rational (and fruitful) you can't see anything explicit It's a safe bet to say that one discussion on this subject. (I checked). Another prime example of Here's my favorite all-time of those beliefs was not, "Judge I, for one, am glad to see that 
Not only are censorship using the red pen before using winner, you might want to clip not, lest ye be judged yourself." NO hasn't succumbed to silli­efforts getting more powerful the brain: In Wisconsin, two and save for the holidays: In But, of course, it's silly for me ness. (and dangerous), but they seem school board members objected Texas, somebody objected to to write to you about this silly to be getting sillier by the sec­to the cover of a high school having a picture of Santa Claus censorship stuff, since Notre Paul Pearson is a 1993 grad­ond. yearbook because they found it on a classroom wall. Why? The Dame is a freedom-loving, First uate of Notre Dame and a for­
How silly? The report says to be disgusting and inappro­letters in the word "Santa" can Amendment-embracing univer­mer news writer for The that one of the other books priate. "That kind of art work be rearranged to spell "Satan." sity, and no one would even Observer. He currently works challenged for its "sexual con­doesn't belong on the cover of a (Didn't Dana Carvey do a dare try any stunt like that. as a writer/editor for a tri-lin­tent" is (you ready for this?) the yearbook," one of the objectors sketch about that a few years Right? gual weekly newspaper in Bible. The Good Book itself the said. "It surprises me what ago on Saturday Night Live?) During my sophomore year Tampa, Florida. one that, for years, referred to passes in the name of culture." There seem to be a lot of peo-here, my philosophy professor 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
PRESIDENT KJN6, I lXJfiT THINK 'tiJU APPR&CIAT/3 JLEr HOW 
5TR/3<35FUL-fT IS Fa< A 5TVCENT 
OF COlOR 70 COM& 70 A 7RA­
[)/7lCNAU-Y WHITEJ 
Ya.J ABOU5H THCM& OORM5 AN[) eATING TAIJI.£S, YOU'RE!<&­MOVIN6 VAWA£31.£; 9JPPORT 
5Y5TEMS. I~ fKJ 9.1!<..­PR./513 TH& t<Jl?S THINK. YOU'll£ A RAC6T_I 
/3R.DOI<S, WHEN THIS 5CHOOL­FIR5TOP!3NW IT~ [1(){)R5 TO 8/..AC/<S, IF I HAOCREATW SfPARAT& OCFMS AND CAF£Tl3?/Atj ON "-~~~ 
GR.OUN/?S THAT 8l.ACKS UJa.JW {3(;-MOl<£ "W1­FOI<TA8l&" IN 7HtM, WHAT (A.()UW I HAV!3-f3tt:N CAUUJ2 

I F16UR& I'/) 
RATHe<. GO 
OOWN5W!N6­
IN6 FOR. IN­
7E6RATION. 
I 

"The sun belt's overcrowded, so let's annex Mexico." 
Bob Mould Musician (1983) 


ACCENT 
Tuesday, September 21, 1993 
Saint Mary's brings classics back to the silver screen 
By PATRICE MILLER Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
People who are nostalgic for the days of Carey Grant and Katherine Hepburn will be ex­cited to hear about the new film series that will incorporate classical films, the big screen and bargain prices. 
Saint Mary's College will be presenting the Screen Gems Film Series, which will be six classical films shown on the big screen located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Even though many people may have already seen many of the classical films, it still will be a new experience because these films were originally cre­ated for and meant to be seen on the big screen. 
The movies are scheduled for Tuesdays, with a matinee at 
1:30 and the evening show at 
7:30 p.m. The series will begin on Tuesday, September 21 and run through April with a new movie each month. 
The first movie that will be shown is "To Kill a Mocking 
.-:::r.=:·

Bird," 1963. The Depression is portrays a of sharecrop­the setting for Gregory Peck's pers from Oklahoma and theirAcademy Award winning role 
journey west in search of aas an attorney located in a 
better life.

small southern town. 
On March 29, the love storyThe next movie in the Screen of "The African Queen," will be Gems Film Series is, the movie the featured movie. Humphrey"Notorious," 1946, on October Bogart plays an alcoholic skip­19. This thriller was directed 
per along with Katherine
by Alfred Hitchcock and stars Hepburn as they discover dan­
lngred Bergman and Carey 
ger in this romantic adventureGrant. 
film.

The third movie in the series The last movie in the seriesis on November 16. The movie is on April 26, with "The King"Arsenic and Old Lace," 1944, 
and I." Walter Long directedis a comedy that stars Carey 
this 1956 film. Yul BrynnerGrant as a drama critic who 
won an Oscar for his perfor­
learns that his two sweet old 
mance as the King of Siam.
aunts have been poisoning peo­The scene "Shall We Dance" is
ple with elderberry wine. 
one of the screen's most joyous "Arsenic and Old Lace" was musical celebration. 
directed by Frank Capra. 
All of the shows will be heldThe series does not have any 
at Saint Mary's O'Laughlinmovies scheduled for the 
Auditorium and the prices for
months of December or 
the tickets are two dollars for
January but it does resume 
adults and one dollar for senior again in February 1, 1994 with citizens and students. Ticketthe 1940 movie "The Grapes of 
subscriptions for the Screen
Wrath." 
Gems Film Series can be pur­The movie "The Grapes of 
chased through the SaintWrath" staring Henry Fonda 
Mary's box office, 10 dollars for and Jane Darwell was based on adults and five dollars for seno­
John Steinbeck's novel. 
ra citizens and students.
Director John Ford's movie 
By SUSAN McGOVERN At the end of the perfor­Assistant Accent Editor mance, the trio encourages dia­logue among audience mem­
Part of a new Chicano/Latino bers about current topics and movement of the twenty-some­stereotypes. thing generation, Chicano Past skits have included the Secret Service, performing at resurrection of Mexican painter Washington Hall tonight at 7 Frida Kahlua, "Chicano Studies p.m., offers overtly political and 101" and shots at Linda "Falsa confrontational messages in a Mexicana" Ronstadt. rapid-fire, "in-your-face" style. Lalo Lopez and Tomas 
Through bilingual puns, Carrasco, two of the comedi­nationalism and political ran­ans, were graduate students at cor, the group pokes fun at the University of California at social stereotypes and politi­Berkeley when they joined with cians -including the Chicano Elias Serna, the third member, community's own. to form the comedy trio in 
"More than anything else, August 1988. they're about making people Material is pulled from daily laugh," said Maria Fuentes of newspapers and skits are con­the Office of Multicultural stantly reflecting current Student Affairs, the. "It's about events, according to the trio. humor and how we can learn Issues such as the Rodney King to talk with different people and Reginald Denny beatings that we might not be comfort­and gays in the military are all able with." material for future shows. 
Photos courtesy Public Media Inc. 
Top: "The King And 1," starring Yul Brynner, is one of the classical films being shown during the Saint Mary's Screen Gems Film Series. Bottom: One of Humphrey Bogart's most memorable roles as an alco­holic skipper in "African Queen" with co-star Kathrine Hepburn. The series begins today with shows at 1:30 and 7:30 p.m. 
"Chicano Secret Service fo­cuses on the problems people face in LA and the inner cities from a different perspective; they see it through comedy," said Ken Salas, president of Hispanic American Organization, 
"In the media, Hispanics are always portrayed negatively," Salas said. "Chicano Secret Service shows that this is not the case." 
The troupe's 1992 show, "Locura Lo Cura" (Madness Is the Cure), ran in San Fransisco's Asian-American Theater before moving to Los Angeles' alternative theaters, such as The Met, Troy, LACE and the Odyssey Theater. Last November, Chicano Secret Service debuted in Texas at the TENAZ International Festival of Teatro Latino in San Antonio. 

The show is sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the Student Union Board. General admission is $5 and $3 for students. 
Cultural Corner 
By 
GERALDINE HAMILTON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The Snite Museum of Art is one of the delightful, yet all too often undiscovered treasures on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. One of these ·ewels, Marc Chagall's painting "Le Grande Cirque," is on long­term loan to the Snite Museum by the Gustav Stern Foundation. 
Chagall, born in 1887 in the Jewish section of the Russian town of Vitesbk and became one of the the greats of 20th Century Modern Art. He stud­ied art in Vitesbk, Saint Petersburg, Leningrad, and eventually in Paris where he lived for twenty-five years. 
His art can be seen in the stained glass windows o France's Mets and Reims Gothic Cathedrals, in the mural, "Four Seasons," at the First National Bank of Chicago and in art museums worldwide. 
A life-long student of art, Chagall experimented with a wide range of mediums, includ­ing etchings, oils, watercolors, costume design, stage sets, book illustrations and church windows. 
Chagall often based his paint­ings on dreams, childhood memories and religion. Entranced people and animals, suspended Jewish and Christian symbols, and a disre­gard of gravity and perspective are a few of the features that characterize his work. 
In "Le Grande Cirque," 1956, Chagall integrates his love of circuses and symbolism to cre­ate a vibrant scene. It is intend­ed to demonstrate his life phi­losophy of love and fun. 
This painting contains 
autobiographical information. 
Chagall includes many objects 
that evoke childhood memo­
ries, such as, the ladder with 
the fish, the intertwined lovers, 
a Torah and bouquets of flow­
ers. Also included are two sel 
portraits of Chagall. One along 
the lower right side is him as a 
boy in a Russian cap. The sec­
ond, along the upper left side is 
him as a mature artist holding 
his palette. 
His personal attitudes to the 
women in his life, his mother 
and his two wives, Bella and 
Vava, are also expressed. The 
woman figure joined at the 
waist with the male figure at 
the upper left represents the 
woman as lover. 
The loyal wife is represented 
by the two faces of the figure at 
the lower left. And the protec­
tive mother is present in the 
blue-head with the red hands 
at the upper right as if looking 
down from heaven. All three 
figure are painted in blue 
which symbolize great joy for 
Chagall. 
The most fascinating aspect 
of this painting is the fact that 
Chagall has infused it with his 
own life's events; but still it 
contains the immortal emotions 
of joy, love and faith for all to 
enjoy. Come and explore this 
painting at the Snite Museum 
of Art. 

--~------------~----------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 

Phillies move 4 1/2 ahead of Montreal 
a three-run double in the sixth He broke the NL record of 4 7 
PhiUies 7, Marlins I inning to help beat Houston. saves set by Lee Smith for St. 
Atlanta was idle and starts a Louis in 1991. Bobby Thigpen 
Curt Schilling pitched a three-game series at Montreal holds the major league record
seven-hitter and struck out a on Tuesday night. of 57 saves for the Chicago
career-high 11 as the 
Barry Bonds, who finally had White Sox in 1990. 
Philadelphia Phillies beat the a big game in September, dou­Rob Murphy fell to 3-7.
Florida Marlins 7-1 Monday bled to start the sixth against
night to move 4 1/2 games 
Greg Swindell (10-13).
ahead of Montreal in the NL Pirates 6, Mets 2 Swindell's intentional walk to
East. The New York Mets reached 
Kirt Manwaring and third base­
John Kruk homered and 100 losses for the first time drove in three runs for the man Ken Caminiti's throwing since 1967 as Jeff King and error loaded the bases. 
Phillies. Lloyd McClendon each drove in Lewis then hit a liner past
Schilling (15-6), walked two two runs for Pittsburgh. In their 
Caminiti into the left-field cor­
in winning his seventh straight first six seasons, the Mets lost decision. He also has six no­ner and all three runners 100 games five times. Theyscored.
decisions since his last loss, were a record-worst 40-120 in 
Jim Deshaies (2-2) pitched
July 11 against San Francisco. 1962 as an expansion team and 
five innings for the Giants and
The only run Schilling 51-111 the next year. 
beat his former team.
allowed came in the fifth inning But the 1993 Mets were sup­when the Marlins loaded the posed to be contenders for the bases with one out and Brett Cubs 6, Cardinals 5 division title, instead they're Barberie grounded into an RBI Randy Myers set a National 50-100 with the loss to fielder's choice. It was League record with his 48th Pittsburgh. New York was 61­Schilling's seventh complete save of the season as Chicago 101 in 1967. game. beat St. Louis. It was also a big Paul Wagner (7-7) was com­
The Phillies jumped on night for Todd Zeile, who ing off a 1-0 win over the Florida starter Charlie Hough reached the 100-RBI mark for Marlins in Florida last week, a (9-16) for two runs in the first St. Louis with a three-run game shortened to six innings inning on Jim Eisenreich's homer. by rain. He allowed nine hits, bases-loaded single. Mike Morgan (10-13) pitched walked one and struck out a 
Giants 7, Astros 2 six innings, allowing four runs career-high seven in 8 2-3 San Francisco moved 2 1/2 on five hits for the victory. innings as he beat the Mets for games behind Atlanta in the NL Myers worked the ninth inning, the second time this season. J West as Darren Lewis delivered allowing a run. Eric Hillman fell to 1-8. 

Classifieds 
--~-----~------·~-----------1 
Tuesday, September 21, 1993 
Glavine three-peats as first 20-game winner in the NL 
By TOM SAlADINO Stewart did it four consecu­Associated Press tive years from 1987-90. "I'm happy to be in their ATLANTA company," said Glavine (20­
Tom Glavine got his three­5). "I would be happy to win peat, now the Atlanta Braves 18, 19 games, or whatever it hope to follow suit. takes to get us in the playoffs. 
Glavine became the first At the same time, I would National League pitcher in have been disappointed not more than 20 years to win 20 getting 20. It was a personal games in three consecutive goal, although I wasn't saying seasons when he beat the it... New York Mets 11-2 Sunday Glavine was 20-11 in 1991, night. when he won the Cy Young 
The victory also kept Award. He was 20-8 last sea­Atlanta in position to win its son, finishing second to Greg third straight NL West title Maddux in Cy Young ballot­and try to become the first ing. three-time NL champion since "If he's not the Cy Young, the 1942-44 St. Louis he's close to it,'' Mets manag­Cardinals. The Braves, who er Dallas Green said. were idle Monday, main­"Atlanta's offense has made it tained a three-game lead over easier for Tommy, but he's the San Francisco Giants been awfully consistent, too." going into the rmal two weeks "He bends a little, but of the season. doesn't break," Atlanta pitch­
Ferguson Jenkins was the ing coach Leo Mazzone said. last NL pitcher to win 20 "He has tremendous courage games three years in a row, on the mound and never gives doing it six straight years in. He can win when he's on from 1967-72. In the the top of his game and when American League, Dave he's off." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business d.y from I 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office:, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-d.y classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
GREEKS & CLUBS NEED G.A.'S -3 PITT, 4 USC, 4 NEED PITT GA'S LARGE FAMILY lmportant!l!l!lllllllllllllllllll FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe@ 1613. WANTS TO SEE SIS IN BAND. Need 2 or 4 GA's for BC 
NOTICES PERSONAL
RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST CALL SHEILA x4072 or (614)459· NO Alum-Fanatic 
ONE WEEKI For your fraternity. WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. 0074 Will pay any price!lllllll Typing sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for 272·7233. Call Katie 4·3390 SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The 287-4082 yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA (leave message) Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. 
for calling. 1·800-932-0528, ext. 75. FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. Need FSU tickets, stud or GA 277-1659. Call Dave at 4-3507 NEEDED 2·4 TICKETS ND-FLA Predjudice is all in your head. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. STATE CALL COLLECT 502·354· glnd/smc po 194 NO IN 46556 
Eam up to $2000-$4000 or more NEED 2 USC TICKETS NEED 1 Pitt GA!Stud.$$$ call Sue 8826 AFTER 5 PM LOST: Black trunk at the end of 92· per month on fishing vessels or in CALL JULIE AT 284-5511 x2768 Vincent, I'm giving you a 93 school year. Full of sweatshirts, canneries. Many companies provide Need 2 Pitt tix • GA or student. shnooberllllll NO softball items. Disappeared from transportation and room & board. Call Sean x1223 hallway in PW. Possibly put in No experience necessary. Male or NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL 2 Pitt GA's needed. Will pay top $. Seeking information regarding someone's storage or mistakenly Female. For more information HOME NO GAMES Call4·2774. •••• 4 SALE •••• European travel and backpacking taken home. Reward. Please call call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 CALL AARON X1868 for the summer of '94. Good time for (313)856-6828 NEED 2 PITT TIX. GA'S OR two frugal students. Please call 
Desperately need a ride to and from DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO STUD. PLEASE CALL LISA 2 PITT GA'S Theresa-x2496 or Bevin-x2569. Found... One key ring in 203A Cleveland for the weekend of Oct 2. PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$. x1297. (40 yd. line) O'Shag. To claim please call Will help pay for gas. Call Phil CALL ALISA @ 4 -1302. DON'T FORGETIIII Mike V. at 4·3661. x0549. Will trade 1 USC stud for 1 Pitt Washington seminar applications 
WANTEDIIIIIIIIIIIII stud. or GA. Call Nicole @X1268 Best Offer #2364 due to the CSC by Tuesday, Sept. LOST: one eyepiece to binoculars need ride to Decorah lA or close for 211111 in section 29 at the MSU game. if fall break-will pay gas$ & drive 3· 4 G. A.'s Tum it in today for the greatest fall found call 273-4801 Nate x1672 WILL BUY 1 EACH FSUIUSC OR break-EVER! Call Meredith if ?s: 
u.s.c. TRADE OCT 9 UM-MSU I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY 273-8967 
october 23 (fall break) 271-8689 (CAL) MIKEx2292 DON'T FORGET! !Ill LOST: I lost a Ricoh camera and a 
FOR SALE
memorable roll of film in a blue call: All I need is an FSU student ticket. WILL TRADE 2 GOOD PITT GAs YARD SALE: camera bag during the M.S. football 2725 Tim x1517 for any 2 FSU GAs. 272-9248. Tuesday only. game. Please call Erica@ HOME·BASED B&B ALLIANCE. 7:30-4. 282-2965 if you know about either! NICE ACCOMMODATIONS. FSU TIX NEEDEDI!IIIIII Nintendo, toys, household goods. 
271·0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING CALL CRAIG @273-3942 Nedd 1 Pitt Ticket • GA or Student -HELP!! NEED 2 GA's FOR BC -1135 N. Notre Dame Ave. FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east MACHINE. PLEASE!! so that my little brother can attend WILL SELL 1 PITT GA Great buys! side of the library on a ledge: dorm the game. Will pay big bucks. Jim CALL HELEN x4026 keys and car keys. Call Doug at BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES· Need 2 Fla. St. GA's x1865 To facilitate the use of a 234-6306 to claim. ND/SMC EVENTS Best offer-call T J 232·5030 Mercurycard phone, always 
(219) 291·7153 Would really appreciate 1 USC Need Help!!! remember the YES, YES, NO rule: 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC Student ticket. Call Phil x0549 Will trade a USC stu. tix for a BC -YES, you may use a Mercurycard LOST: A Diamond Tennis Bracelet ·GRADUATE STUDENT ROOM· MATT @ 232-3870 stu. tix. Call Hildita X4846. ·YES, you may use a credit card at Red Field. Offering a REWARD HOUSE@ ANGELA & PORTAGE -NO, you may not use cash of $100. If found call Alicia at SHARE WITH OTHER GRAD NEED 2 PITT GA'S Last week. I was rich enough to buy 273-6897. Extreme sentimental STUDENTS. PRIVATE ROOM NO vs USC -Need tickets for & and sell you 40 times over. This value. KIT., STUDY ROOM, $180 MO 10/23 game.Chris Marks 2 BCSTUDTIX week, I have nothing, so I'm selling Hey TEDD SMITH, 
THRU MAY. 800·523·3139. x2300 2 PURDUE GAs. Call JOE RUSSO If you want a second opinion, con· Lost: Green army-type bookbag COULD INCLUDE GARAGE AT at 234-6306. tact the club president. with German book and dictionary. $30MO. WANTED 4sale STANFORD 4·3322 P.S. Girls, pay your dues by the 1st. Reward. 237-0659. START PITT AND FSU TIX. X2756 We Need PITT TIX P.S.S. Nice shirt. Slim!! 
OCT 1. WE WILL CALL YOU. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. 2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at POSTCARD TO Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs for 2 Pitt 1612 or Kristen at 2812 NO VIDEO 
WANTED 

BOX 770 NO WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545 Now Open Everyday 
IN 46556 OR LEAVE VM GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST. 5:00 to 11:00 FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! MESSAGE (619)-299·0212 GA:s 2773097 Wanted 2 USC tickets will pay top Look for our Grand Opening EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING $.Call collect 206 462·7270. Ask for I NEED GA'S FOR USC & BC Weekend starting this Thursday! BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8 #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ Don. NICK X1777 
FOR RENT 
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS. CANCUN, Help! I need four tickets to the Mike· Thanks for the personal. JAMAICA. PANAMA CITY I 1-800-Foosball table 4 sale. Tornado com­Boston College game .... Help! I need 1 Pitt GA for my cute Need 2 Pitt Tix. Student or GA; Call I must be cool now!! I Have a 678-63861 mercial heavy duty. Good shape. little bro who wants to see NO play! Lisa x2449 groovy day! 
$650. 299·1644 If you would like to make a hot Call X4245 -Kristin 
babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at SOUND TECHS! SOUND TECHS! INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT· 84 Buick Skyhawk. Reliable, 634-2703 ... Need 2 USC GA's will pay in For Sale 2 Purdue Tix, Face Value Student Activities is now hiring Make money teaching basic conver­$1450/best offer, 273-5231 6:30· USCurrency John 273-5828 Call Kara. x2449 sound techs to operate LaFortune sational English abroad. Japan, 9:00pm. @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# technical equipment. Apply at 315 Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to $$ WANTED! I $$ LaFortune. Minimal experience $2000-$4000+ per month. Many WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1 will trade pitt GAs for FSU GAs. needed--will train on equipment. provide room & board + other bene· BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS FSU GAl Call Sean @ x1223 FSU and BC TIX!I 233-5130 fits. No previous training or teaching CALL COLIN AT 273-6205 certificate required. For more Infor­273 • 3930 Tracy mation call: (206)632-1146 ext. Original Macintosh 128K computer NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S will trade USC or PITT std. tix. for J5584 with mouse and keyboard. $75 or Tony x3327 $$ WANTED! I $$ FSU std. tix. 233-5130. ask for DOOOOOLINI 
best offer. Call Jesse at x3261 mike. FSU and BC TIX!I SPRING BREAK '94· SELL TRIPS, I really need 4 USC G.A.s­NEED 2 FLORIDA ST. GAs
TICKETS
EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I thanks! diane x4253 273 -3930 Tracy Call Jessica @ X1298 Student Travel Services is now hir­LAURA LONGO IS 211111 Ing campus reps. Call @800-648· ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC. PITT AND USC GAs HAPPY BIRTHDAY LAURA!!!III 4849. HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL I NEED 6 FLA ST. GA's. I HAVE$. Please call Lisa after WANTED FOR RICH LOVE. THE SOCIAL GROUP 
JANE AT 1·800-264-3278. CALL BRIAN AT 4·1772. I have $1 5 P.M. at 232-2728. ALUMNI $$$232·1348 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------J 
Tuesday, September 21, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE BASKETBALL page 11 

Wingfield looks for fresh start at Cincy 
CINCINNATI 

Basketball recruit Dontonio Wingfield, fresh from serving jail time in his native Georgia, is hoping for a fresh start as a student at the University of Cincinnati. 
He is to begin classes with other students on Wednesday at the 35,000-student state school. 
Wingfield, 19, was released from Dougherty County Jail in Albany, Ga., Saturday evening after serving three days on mis­demeanor charges. He still owes four days on his jail sen­tence during the Christmas break. 
Police said he quarreled with his mother after she would not let him use her car, tore up her kitchen and fought with police who tried to arrest him. Wingfield publicly apologized after his release from jail. 
"The last three days have allowed me to take a long look 
University or Notre Dame International Study Program in 

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETINGS WITH PROFESSOR ANGELA BORELLI 
WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 22. 1993 
6:30 J•.M. 202 DEHARTOLO 

SPRING 1994 APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER IS, 1993 
FALL 1994 OR ACADEMIC YEAR 1994-95 APPLICATION DEADLINE DECEMBER I, 1993 
·r-


Purdue Road Trip 
Catch the Action! 

at myself," Wingfield told a news conference before he left Albany. "I didn't like part of me that I saw. It is my goal to change that part of me while I am a student at the University of Cincinnati. It is truly my hope to make the people of Albany proud of me. 
"I made a mistake that I regret," he said. ''I'm not a bad guy. I'm not a criminal. I'm just confused sometimes." 
He was sentenced last week to the jail term plus one year's probation, 30 days of communi­ty service and a $366 fine. He pleaded guilty to two counts of obstruction of an officer and one count of criminal trespass for damage to property. 
University athletic director 
Rick Taylor has decided that 
Wingfield must complete coun­
seling for anger control if he 
wants to play basketball. 
Wingfield flew to Cincinnati 
on Sunday and will not com­
ment further on his arrest, 
Cincinnati assistant basketball 
coach Larry Harrison said. 
Head coach Bob Huggins was 
out of town Monday and 
unavailable for comment. 
Wingfield's father, Donald, 
said his son's arrest surprised 
him. 
"It was overblown," he said. 
"All kids say something to their 
mother now and again. I was 
surprised that it went that far." 
&}~ 
\lt 


Notre Dame vs. Purdue September 25th 
Round trip bus transportation to Ross.. Ade Stadiun1 
(Buses leave at 10:00 am fron1 CCE) 


Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to game now available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Mizzou's Crudup pleads innocent 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 

University of Missouri basket­ball player Jevon Crudup pleaded innocent Monday to charges of driving while intoxi­cated and failure to drive on the right side of the road. 
Crudup, a 6-foot-9 forward from Kansas City, was arrested Sept. 7. His attorney mailed the innocent plea to Boone County Circuit Court. 
It was Crudup's -second arrest in a span of two weeks. He and teammate Melvin Booker were given municipal summonses Aug. 29 for disturbing the peace after a fight at the uni­versity's Memorial Union. 
After Crudup's second arrest, coach Norm Stewart suspended him from the team for the semester. 
Charges dropped against CU's Boyce 

BOULDER 

Boulder police on Monday dropped obstruction charges against Colorado basketball star Donnie Boyce, saying there was no evidence he was involved in drug activities as previously suspected. 
Boyce, 20, CU's all-Big Eight guard last season and the team's leading scorer the past two seasons, was arrested Sept. 5 on suspicion of obstructing a governmental operation. 
A Boulder policeman arrested Boyce after seeing him hand a "white object" to another man outside a fast food restaurant. The officer asked Boyce to hand over the object, and when he turned away, Boyce was handcuffed and arrested. No white object was recovered. 
A witness said after the inci­dent that the white object was dice, and that Boyce was play­ing craps. 
"A lot of people knew they play dice," said the witness, Nataline Cruz, a CU junior from Walsenburg. "Maybe they thought they weren't supposed to be gambling either." 
Boulder police issued a state­ment Monday that said after consulting with the district attorney's office, police had requested that the DA's office discontinue prosecution of the obstruction charges. 
Police "determined that there is no evidence that Mr. Boyce was involved in any drug activi­ty. Mr. Boyce was not arrested on any drug-related charges relating to the incident. The matter is considered closed. It is regrettable that the matter generated such publicity and speculation," the statement said. 


HAPPY B-DAY 
from your fellow workers at 
the S.H. 



IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:00 p~m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is thetime you call! 

Free Deliver • 271.,1177 

,-~ 
I I 
I page 12
I The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 1993 I 
I I Palmiero homer lifts Rangers in tenth San Diego State hits upon QB troubles 
I 
Rafael Palmiero's home run 

I I in the lOth inning gave Texas a 2-1 victory over Seattle after 
I the Rangers had rallied in the 
I ninth to tie the game. 
I It was only the second time 
I 
this season the Rangers had

I 
won when trailing after eight

I 
innings. Ivan Rodriguez's pinch single in the ninth had tied the game for the Rangers. 
Cris Carpenter (4-1) earned the win in relief. Carpenter entered the game with two on and no out in the ninth inning and pitched out of a bases­loaded, one-out jam. Tom Henke pitched the lOth inning 

to earn his 38th save of the year. Brad Holman (1-2) took the loss. 
Indians 6, Orioles 4 
Randy Milligan's grounder took a bad hop past shortstop Cal Ripken for a two-run single that sent the Cleveland Indians past the struggling Baltimore Orioles 6-4. 
The Orioles fell 5 1/2 games behind idle Toronto in the AL East. Baltimore dropped to 2-5 on a road trip that has two games left in Cleveland. The Orioles play their last 10 at 
Win over Angels drops White Sox magic number to nine 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 
With their magic number finally reduced to single digits, the Chicago White Sox are get­ting more and more comfort­able with the thought of leaving Jason Bere in the rotation for the postseason. But the rookie isn't looking that far ahead. 
"The playoffs don't begin today," the right-hander said Monday night after running his personal winning streak to five games in a 10-2 victory over the California Angels. "There's a little less than two weeks to go, and we have to worry about this series and Texas when we get home." 
The victory, coupled with the Rangers' extra-inning 2-1 tri­umph at Seattle, left Texas 4 1/2 games behind the White Sox. Any combination of nine victories or Texas losses gives the White Sox their first divi­sion title since 1983. 
"We've had better pitching in the second half than the first half," said Robin Ventura, who drove in three runs during a 15-hit attack against four pitch­ers. "When you get that and you get some runs, you're able 

to  hold  on  and  win  some  
games."  
Lance  Johnson  and  Ellis  

Burks each had two RBls and Tim Raines added three hits for the AL West leaders, who over­came a pair of baserunning blunders by Frank Thomas and George Bell to record their fifth victory in six games and 15th in 22. 
"They've had good pitching against us this year," Ventura said. "And when they have that kind of staff, you need to get out and score some runs. It's nice that we got the kind of pitching they usually get against us." 

Bere (1 0-5) allowed one hit over the first five innings and two runs on six hits over 6 2-3, before Kirk McCaskill followed Scott Radinsky out of the bullpen and struck out rookie pinch-hitter Eduardo Perez with the bases loaded in the seventh. 
McCaskill retired all seven batters he faced for his first major league save. It was the 15th career relief appearance by the right-hander, who has made 237 starts. 

Angels manager Buck Rodgers, still upset by what he perceived to be an enlarged strike zone against Perez, was ejected by plate umpire Gary Cederstrom with the White Sox batting in the eighth. 
"Almost every crew that comes through, they think it's their job to teach these kids 
how to play in the major 
leagues and test them," 
Rodgers said. "I just got tired of 
it. Bere looked awfully good 
and he didn't need any help." 
Bere, whose ratio of 8.47 
strikeouts per nine innings is 
the best among the five White 
Sox starters, struck out three in 
the first and fourth innings and 
finished with 12. He had at 
least one strikeout in every 
inning he pitched, while walk­
ing one. 
"I was just trying to keep them off-balance and mix up my off-speed stuff with the fast­ball," he said. "It was a great night to pitch. I was real com­fortable out there." 
Johnson's two-run triple in the seventh gave him sole pos­session of the AL lead in three­base hits from teammate Joey Cora. Johnson's drive into the right field corner gave Chicago a 6-2 lead, after an infield hit by Thomas and a two-out walk to Burks. 
Ventura's two-run double in the eighth accounted for Chicago's final two runs. Ventura hit an RBI grounder in the first. 
The White Sox scored three times in the first inning against rookie Phil Leftwich (3-6) with the help of singles by Raines and Cora, a fielding error by first baseman J.T. Snow, a dou­ble by Bell and a sacrifice fly by Burks. 

home, including the final four 
against the Blue Jays. 
Last week in Boston, 
Baltimore blew a four-run lead 
and a three-run lead, losing 
both games to the Red Sox. 
This was another bumpy night 
for the Orioles, who could not 
hold a 3-0 edge with Fernando 
Valenzuela (7-10). 
Bob Milacki (1-1), formerly 
with the Orioles, pitched one 
inning for the win. 
Tigers 6, Brewers 3 
Tony Phillips had three hits and a walk to lead the Detroit Tigers to a 6-3 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Monday night. 
Winner Mike Moore (13-9) held Milwaukee to three runs on six hits and three walks in six innings. Ricky Bones (10-11) struggled for the second straight start, allowing six runs on 10 hits in 5 1-3 innings. In his last two starts, he is 0-2 with a 12.10 ERA. 
Detroit took a 5-1 lead with three runs in the first and two more in the second. 
Athletics 2, Royals 1 
Rookie Todd Van Poppe! pitched a seven-hitter over eight-plus innings as the Oakland Athletics made first­inning RBI singles by Troy Neel and Mike Aldrete hold up for a 2-1 victory over the Kansas City Royals. 
SAN DIEGO 

San Diego State quarterback David Lowery has a fractured right fibula and will be out 3-6 weeks, ending his string of 23 straight starts. 

Junior Tim Jr.. G u t i e r r e z , llllllllllllli''!ii!il-i"<' 8 
who rallied AI Luginbill SDSU to 24 straight points in a 38-31 win at Air Force last week, will start Saturday night against the Minnesota Golden Gophers at San Diego Jack Murphy Stadium. Lowery suffered a bruised right calf in the season-opener 
September 24, 1993 Stepan Center Bpm 


against Cal State Northridge. X­rays taken after that game were negative, school spokesman John Rosenthal said Monday. 
Lowery was reinjured in the third quarter at Air Force. X­rays Monday confirmed a frac­ture in the fibula, the smaller of the two bones in the lower leg. 
With the Aztecs trailing 31-14 with 12:40 left Saturday, Gutierrez replaced Lowery and completed 13 of 21 passes for 217 yards and two touchdowns. He threw a 36-yard touchdown pass to Darnay Scott on fourth­and-5 with 40 seconds left to lift SDSU (2-1) to victory in its Western Athletic Conference opener. 
Happy 21st 





Angie 
We love you 
~Mom, Dad, .-Tracy and /II Muffin, too 
Students $8 General $7 5 
Tickets available at the Info. Desk at 

LaFortune 
mJDIOO'UNIOH BOAJ!.D

IN CONCERT 
II SEPTEMBER 21 -BANQUET 
Center for Continuing Education 
6:30 p.m. Hors D'Oeuvres (sponsored by General Electric) 
7:15 p.m. Dinner 
II SEPTEMBER 22 -INDUSTRY FAIR 
11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. Fitzpatrick Hall (floor 1 and 2) 
II REPRESENTATIVES FROM OVER 20 MAJOR COMPANIES OPPORTUNITIES FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT AND SUMMER INTERNSHIPS BRING YOUR RESUMES! 


Tuesday, September 21, 1993 The Observer • VOLLEYBALL page 13 
,~IS,y 
13 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Janelle Karlan {middle) not only gets support from her teammates but encourages them as their captain. 



Karlan 
continued from page 16 
digs a game over her career. 
In describing the fortunes of this year's 16th ranked team, Karlan is adamant. "We've proven that we can't be taken lightly, because if we are taken lightly we will win," she stated, 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 
Accelerate your career 
using the team's victory over then No. 6 Illinois and its strong play against No. 1 Long Beach State as examples. "However. in the same regard, we have to come out and play our best every night, not letting other teams take anything away from us." 
Being elected co-captain her senior season was a reward for Karlan's dedication to the team. "It was a big honor for me," she stated. "It shows that the team sees you as a leader. and looks up to you." 
This newfound confidence and leadership is what impressed Brown most about Karlan's maturation since she arrived at ND. "During my first year with her, Janelle used to 


lN SUSAN'S FIRST FEW YEARS, SHE WAS AUDITING MULTIMILLION OOLLAR COMPANIES, 
BUT FOCUSING ON SOME MUCH SMALLER FIGURES. 
Susan Gallagher made two important discoveries during her first three years at Arthur Andersen. One w.ps her talent for Litigation Consulting, which she provides for a wide variety of clients through our Specialty Consulting division. Her second discovery came after work. It was the joy of helping children. 
Over the years, Susan has volunteered with the Boys & Girls Clubs of Chicago. Working to help children comes naturally to Susan, because it's the smaller figures in life that are really the most important. 
Arthur Andersen is an equal opportunity employer. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
really get down on herself after a mistake, so much so that she wasn't able to help the team," noted Brown. "This year she's realized that she has to keep her head and run the team, and she's been doing a great job of 
it... The team would have to look hard to find a better role model. Karlan is widely consid­ered an all-American candi­date, not just for her skills but also for the hustle and intelli­gence she shows in acting as her team's floor general. The Notre Dame experience for Karlan has been more than just a few successful volleyball seasons. "It's been a wonderful three years here," she stated. "I truly love my teammates and coaches. and feel that I've learned a lot about life, about how to deal with people. and about how to be a leader. I'm definitely going to take a lot with me when I leave." 
While Karlan may have gained much from Notre Dame, the University certainly reaped its share of benefits from her presence. The invaluable lead­ership and steadiness that she exhibits on the court will be hard to replace, as will the self­less dedication she has given to a program which she helped bring to the top. 
Belles split two matches over weekend 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team's record dropped to 7-6 this weekend after splitting a triangular meet at Illinois Benedictine College. 
The day began with a win against Knox College, 15-9, 12­15, 15-6, 15-9. 
Once again, the seniors pro­vided strong leadership on the court for the Belles. Tri-captain Michelle Martino contributed 48 assists. 10 digs and 14 points, while tri-captain Kim Branstetter added 18 digs and 19 kills. Mary Wheeler cap­tured 14 points in the effort. 
Despite the win, Wheeler feels that the team did not play up to their ability. 
"Everything was slower today." she said. "It took us two games to get energized." 
This lethargic feeling contin­ued into the second game, but provided different results as the Belles fell to host Illinois Benedictine, 9-15, 12-15, 13­15. 
Martino and Branstetter con­tinued to lead the Belles. Martino provided 28 assists, 12 digs and 13 points for the team, and Branstetter had 10 kills and 9 digs. 
Several underclassmen also stepped forward in the effort. Sophomore tri-captain Sara Stronczek notched 11 kills and 10 digs. She was joined by sophomore Ann Lawrence who totalled 12 points, including three aces. 
The loss was disappointing 

for the Belles because, accord­
ing to Wheeler, it was a game 
that should have been won. 
"They were definitely a beat­

able team" she said. "We 
picked up the pace a little in 
the second game and began to 
play better, we just came up 
short." 
Lawrence also felt that play 

was much slower, noting a lack 
of communication and intensi­
ty. 
"We played slow all day. We 

won the first game, but we 
could have picked up the 
pace," she said. "We needed to 
pick up the intensity for the 
second game, but we didn't do 
it... 
The Belles play was affected 

in part by fatigue and illness. 
Not only had they had a long 

week with nine games, but four 
out of the six starters were 
sick. 
After having two days of rest, 
Lawrence feels that the team is 
ready to pick up where they 
left off last week. 
The intensity level will have 
to increase as the Belles pre­
pare to take on Olivet College 
and Kalamazoo College on 
Thursday. 
The rivalry between the 
Belles and Kalamazoo is 
strong, and Lawrence believes 
that the team will be ready. 
"We've had some time to 
rest, and I think that everyone 
is going to come back ready to 
go," she said. "We definitely 
have the talent and the ability 
to beat both teams." 
Purdue 
Game 
Pullout 
This Friday. 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 1993 
Allen and Lowery upstage Montana in Chiefs' victory 
meeting on Thursday, Sept. 23 at r.===========~==============================::::::=~::;;:;;~~~~~~==========~
8:00 p.m. in Rm 127 Nieuwland 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY 
Joe Montana's home debut as a Kansas City Chief was upstaged Monday night by a couple of other golden oldies ­Nick Lowery and Marcus Allen. 

And something else golden ­yellow penalty flags. Lots of them. 
Lowery, a 37-year-old, kicked five field goals and a Kansas City defense led by Derrick Thomas and Darren Mickell shut down John Elway and Denver as the Chiefs beat the Broncos 15-7, a score typical of a Kansas City game in the pre­Montana days. 
That was enough to avoid the last-minute heroics Elway has pulled off four years in a row against the Chiefs -he man­aged a 2-yard TO pass to Vance Johnson with I :24 remaining for the only touchdown of the game. 
Meanwhile, the old guys were performing for the Chiefs and penalty flags were flying -24 
Mirer given 0 K to practice after eye exam 
KIRKLAND, Wash. 

An eye doctor examined Rick Mirer's right eye Monday and gave the Seattle Seahawks rookie quarterback permission 
to practice this 
n·.

week. ­
"It's nothing," · . "!!. Mirer said after ~o.­being examined ':f J.· 
by an ophthal-' . ,, mologist. "It's ... • 
not  that big  a  Rick  
deal.  It's  not  Mirer  
even  a  prob­ 
lem."  

"His eye is OK," coach Tom Flores added. "By the time we landed last night, he was able to see out of it with no prob­lem." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Anyone Interested in playing field hockey should meet at Loftus at 9 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday. If you have any questions, call Christy at X2966 or Bonnie at 273-6591. No experi­ence needed. 
Club Hockey-Anyone interested in playing club hockey contact Rob at X1950. Leave name, number and year. 
It's time to start thinkin' snow! There will be an informational 
Science Hall. All those who may be interested in the trip to Breckinridge, CO over Christimas vacation. or in trying out for the ski team should attend. 
Anyone Interested in coaching youth hockey for the ND youth hockey league call Debbie at 277­7519. 
Any women interested in play­ing lacrosse with the Saint Mary's/NO women's lacrosse club, please call Emily Hage at X2856 or Michelle McQuillan at X2894 by Sept. 24. Beginners are wel­come. 
Notre Dame Sports Information is looking for volun­teer help for the 1993-94 academ­ic year. Their office handles sta­tistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more information, call Rose at 631-7516. 
Sports Talk welcomes corner­back Bobby Taylor and women's soccer players Alison Lester and Jodi Hartwig tonight at 8 p.m. on WVFI 640 AM. Call in with your questions and comments at 631­
6400. 
Mirer left the Seahawks' 17-Notre Dame, was the second 14 victory over New England on player picked in April's draft. Sunday in Foxboro, Mass., with "In effect, I got punched in a third-quarter eye injury. the eye," he said. "It was a Mirer had trouble seeing out of fluke." 
his right eye after Patriots defensive end Mike Pitts clawed Mirer's face while pass rushing. 
Mirer will practice this week -beginning Wednesday ­with a face shield. He said he may wear the shield next Sunday when the Seahawks (1­
2) play at Cincinnati (0-3). "I don't want to but I think I'm supposed to," Mirer said. "He'll be able to do every­thing this week," Flores said. 
Mirer said it was the first time he'd had an eye injury in his football career. Mirer, from in all for the two teams. 
Allen, 33, gained 91 yards in 17 carries, his best regular-sea­son game since 1988. 
Montana avoided enough mis­takes to win his second game without a loss as a Chief-he sat out last week's 30-0 loss in Houston with a sore wrist. He missed open receivers several times, but finished 21 of 36 for 273 yards, six to Willie Davis for 139 yards. 
But Lowery got the points ­field goals of 34, 41, 52 and 44 yards in the first half and 20 yards in the fourth quarter. Typically, a Denver penalty for too many men on the field gave the Chiefs three points -it moved Lowery into position for the 52-yarder after Kansas City had already punted. 
It was the first loss for the Broncos after two victories and a game totally unworthy of such stars as Montana, Allen and Elway. 
The first AFC West meeting of the two premier quarterbacks was a dreadful contest, marred by 24 penalties for 180 yards between the two teams. Gary 
comedy 
* 

tonight 
* 
7:00 
* 

Washi~gton 
Hall 
• 

$3 students $5 others 
• 

sponsored by the Hispanic American Organization and 
~==============================================================================~ 




PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
General meeting for all new and returning students 
• 

7:30 in Cushing Auditorium 
TONIGHT 
Bring $5.00 dues 
Zimmerman, the Broncos' new left tackle, was called for three false starts and the Chiefs were called three times for roughing Elway. 
Elway, under pressure all night, was 28 of 45 for 300 yards. 
The game marked the first regular-season victory for Montana over Elway, against whom he had been 0-3. Montana did lead San Francisco to a 55-10 triumph over Denver and Elway in the 1990 Super Bowl. 
It was only the third victory in 12 games against Denver for Kansas City coach Marty Schottenheimer, who has been bedeviled over the years with the Chiefs and Browns by Elway's last-minute comebacks. 
Montana didn't start brilliant­ly, but with the help of Ron Dickerson's 44-yard return of the opening kickoff, the Chiefs got ofT to a 3-0 lead. 
Dickerson's return put the Chiefs at the Denver 48, and after a holding penalty on Ricky Siglar, Montana found Willie Davis for 35 yards to the Broncos 23. But he threw wide to Tim Barnett, open on the goal line, and the Chiefs settled for Lowery's 34-yard field goal. 

Lowery hit a 41-yarder with 
2:37 remaining in the quarter to make it 6-0 after a 7 4-yard drive from the Chiefs' 2-yard line. Montana was 5 of 7 for 59 yards in the drive. 
Lowery's 52-yarder made it 9-0 with 8:56 to play in the half and was a gift from the Broncos -the Chiefs had already punt­ed from the 39, but Denver was called for 12 men on the field and the ball was moved into field-goal range. 
Just under five minutes later, 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Lowery hit from 44 and it was 12-0. 
The penalties were fewer in the third quarter, but so was the offense -neither team threatened. 
Montana's final field goal game at the end of an 84-yard drive highlighted by a 29-yard pass from Montana to J .J. Birden. It marked the fourth time in Lowery's career that he kicked five field goals in a game. 
Denver's TO came at the end of a 92-yard drive with the Chiefs in a prevent defense. Two onside kicks went out of bounds and Kansas City ran out the clock. 
ANGERS, F CE 
1994-95 Academic Year "How Not To Be An Ugly American" with Professor Paul McDowell 
Wednesday, September 22 6:30p.m. Room 140 DeBartolo 
Returning srudenrs will be on hand to answer questions ALL ARE WELCOME! 
. 

mmr:nmmmmnr~rrf?.ti~•~=#1%M&4&&iM£ 
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
O~CE '{O\j \3t.CO\-/\E \-lf>,ROCR II \5 TO TA.KE 
nit. MoRt: '(OJ K~OW, TI-lE 
~~~OI(t<\£D. '(0\..l 5\/>..I(T DR\'S\\IE />..C\ION. 
SEEING CO!'<\I'lE.X \T\toS />..~\) 51-\/>..\)E'S 0~ GRAi. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Some nuns' 51 Ill-lit wear 54 End of the quip
1 Home of ancient Irish 
29 In that place 58 Earth, to Hans kings 30 Manipulates 59 He wears a 5 Reduce 31 Brooklyn conical cap drastically institute 60 Ointment source
10 Singaradja's 32 Client's cost 61 Not so much
island 35 Quip: Part II 62 Prefix with pose 
14 Author Paton 39 E.MK is one 63 File's partner 
15 Spend foolishly 40 Pope's cape 16 Whiffenpoofs, 41 Otherwise 
e.g. 42 Word with fry or DOWN 
17 Start of a quip potatoes 1 Pack firmly 
20 Type of mining 43 Took part in a 2Jai­
regatta 3 Carry on 21 Takes the lion's 

share 45 One held for verbally
ransom 4 Whichever 

22 "lcion-­
franc,:ais" 48 Bench warmers, 23 Trig function 
for short 5 Faints 49 Watery expanse 
6 Good-sized 

24 Dug for quahogs 50 A spouse 
7 Queries a Fr. holy woman ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 "... bells on --toes" 10 Turned into 11 Sleeper's 

29 Giant or dwarf 
rouser 

of folklore 12 Capital of Nord 
31 "Positive 13 Formed aits 
thinking" 181ota exponent 19 Lacedaemon 32 Autumn 23 Senor's sibilant 
33Gaelic 
assent 34Watched 36 Hard Italian 25 Permits 

cheese 37 Rugged rock 38 Oahu necklaces 28 Homophone for 42 Producesbin 


TODAY 


Tuesday, September 21, 1993 
page 15 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON 
BEit-iG A tJ\A.N Or A.CT\0~, I CA~i A.rrORI) \b TN<..E 1\i/>..1 R\5K~-..L::.===:::l 

OF INTEREST 
43 Feel pain 44 Fourth person 45 Bellhop's 
bailiwick 46 Pigment for 
Gainsborough 47 Spores 48 After that time 50 Left 
51 Poet Walter -Mare 52 Niche occupant 53 Docile; gentle 55 Cato's 451 56 Prod for payment 57 Auditory appendage 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

f you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 
3  COME FALL DowN AT SENIOR BAR!  0~~E  
Open at 9 p.m.  ...  
Must Be 21  w­ 


a1 FoR THE FIRST DAY OF AuTUMN THE 

( SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, September 21, 1993 
Modesty sets talented Karlan apart offvolleyball court 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Spons Writer 

True modesty is a hard quality to find in athlet­ics these days. 
Most athletes will feed you the standard rhetoric about just playing for the team, but the unanimated face delivering the line is usually less than believable. That's what makes senior volleyball player Janelle Karlan stand out -with her, the modesty is not feigned, while the com­mitment to the team is certainly real. 
What is truly different about Karlan's great attitude toward her sport is the number of hon­ors of which she could boast. As a four year starter at the most demanding position, she has already amassed more assists than anyone in Notre Dame history, yet still has much of her senior season to play. 
She has been voted to the Midwestern Collegiate Conference first-team in each of the last two years, has been selected to the all-tour­nament squad in both the MCC tourney and the recent Shamrock Invitational, and was elected co-captain for her final season by her peers. Most would say that Karlan deserves to brag, but this is definitely not the case. 
"I tend not to be individualistic," commented Karlan. "If the other players on the team didn't have the abilities they have, I wouldn't have reached the success I've had." 
Karlan's road to success started with her deci­sion in high school to devote time to volleyball, a sport which was new to her, rather than to the soccer and softball she had been committed to for years. It proved to be a wise choice, as the El Toro, California native began to attract attention in her senior year when she became the team's primary setter. 
Although recruited by regional California pow­erhouses, Karlan was impressed by her visit to South Bend and decided this was the place for her. "There was something special about the school, and the closeness of the team really impressed me," explained Karl an. "Also, the academic reputation was a large factor." 
As a freshman, Karlan wasted no time in breaking into the starting lineup, but admits, "I had the same fears as any freshman, and there's a huge difference between the atmospheres in high school and college. It was difficult at times to get over the nerves I felt before matches, but I've learned to cope with them. I still get that same feeling now, but I think it's healthy, it helps get my adrenaline flowing." 
Over the years, Karlan has become a complete player, learning who to set at which time, when to quickset, and when to hit. "Janelle has over 4,000 assists in her career, and 4,000 of any­thing is a lot," commented Irish coach Debbie Brown. "Most setters across the country can't post those kinds of statistics. She's really played very steadily for us this year." 
However, more important to Karlan than her individual success is the progress that the pro­gram has made since she entered four years ago, moving from relative obscurity to national promi­nence. 
"I think the new coaching staff has been very instrumental in our development," commented Karlan. "They have both the knowledge and the ability to teach what they know. They've always been very optimistic, and instilled in us that if we stick to the fundamentals and focus, the rest will happen." 
More than anyone, Karlan has witnessed the improvement first hand. After starting on a below average 9-27 squad her first year, she has been an integral part in the team's rise to nation­al exposure, averaging 10.30 assists and 2.06 
see KARLAN I page 13 

~.,..~=·-t-v··· ~ ~ ' 
. 1 

t-·-t~·-··t 
~ 

. 
J,. -·--~+·-~'··· .. 
No. Team 
1. 
' North Carolina 

2. 
Portland 

3. 
NOTRE DAME 

4. 
Santa Clara 

5. 
Hartford 


6. N.C. State 
7. 
William and Mary

8. 
Massachusetts 

9. 
Duke 

10. 
Connecticut 

11. 
Cal-Berkeley


12.·-Virginia 
13. 
Stanford 

14. 
George Mason 

15. 
Florida International 

16. 
Cal-Santa Barbara 

17. 
Wisconsin-Madison 

18. 
Washington 

19. 
Arkansas 

20. 
Army 



Others Receiving Votes: WashingtonState, Yale, Maryland 

..,]le Observer/Chris Weirup 

NFL News Rick Mirer gets a doc­.. tor's okay to practice after sustaining an eye injury in Sunday's game. 
see page 14 

see page 13 

Rec. Pt§, 5·0 240 5-1 228 &..o 2o9 6·1 195 4..1 192 4·1 182 4..1 176 4-0-1 139 4-1 133 
5-1 132 4-0-1 128 
2-2 122 4·1 90 6-0 81 4-0 69 5·0 56. 5-1 50 2-3 36 4-1 22 7-0 17 
The Observer/Jake Peters Senior setter Janelle Karlan (left) holds the Irish record for assists with over 4,000, but she shows here that she can do more than just set her teammates. 
Women's soccer now highest ranked 
Inside SPORTS 

SMC Volleyball The Belles split two matches over the week­end to bring their record to 7-6. 
Notre Dame sport at number three 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Spons Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team ascended to an unprecedented number three ranking in this week's Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America nation­al poll, which was released yes­terday. 
This poll makes the women's soccer squad the highest ranked Irish team. 
The undefeated Irish (6-0 overall, 2-0 Midwestern Collegiate Conference) climbed four spots from last week's ranking after a strong 1-0 vic­tory over then fifth ranked William & Mary. 
"I can't believe this," exclaimed a shocked Rosella Guerrero. "We've come such a long way in such a short time. That's great." 
"I was really hoping deep down for top-five," said tri-cap­tain Alison Lester, "but I tried not to concern myself with it. Third is even better than expected." 
Although excited by the rank­ing, the Irish are wary of a potential let down. After rising from 12th to seventh in last week's poll, the team entered a phase of lacking intensity which was abruptly corrected by Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"We don't put too much weight in the rankings" Petrucelli said last week referring to the national polls. "What's impor­tant is what happens on the field." 
"It feels great, but it doesn't really mean anything now," said tri-captain Andi Kurek, who anchors the Irish defense. ''I'm excited about it, but we're not satisfied yet." 
· "I don't think rankings mean anything," said star midfielder Ragen Coyne. "We have to play the game and that's all that mat­ters. I don't really care about rankings." 
"We've still got a long way to go," said Guerrero. "We haven't played the other (ranked) teams yet, so we'll have to wait and see." 
"It's a good incentive to keep playing well and keep winning," added Lester. 
In addition to William & Mary, the Irish have also beaten 17th ranked Wisconsin-Madison. They will face ofT with first place North Carolina, sixth ranked North Carolina State, ninth ranked Duke and 13th ranked Stanford before the regular sea­son comes to a close . 
Belles drop Sunday match-up 
By CHERYL GILLILAND 
Spores Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team was on the road again as they traveled to Heidleburg College on Sunday. The Belles gave Heidleburg a tough game, but were unable to come away with the victory. losing 3-1. 
This was an important game for Saint Mary's because Heidleburg is in their region this year. The Belles knew going into the game that it would be an extreme challenge to compete against Heidleburg's successful team. 
"We knew what we were up against," said sophomore Tiffany Raczynski. "Heidleburg was the team to beat. We felt that this game really began our season." 
Junior forward Maura Sullivan scored Saint Mary's first goal fifteen minutes into the first half, with an assist from Raczynski. 
One minute later. Heidleburg scored to tie the game at one. The Belles stayed in the game until Heidleburg began to dominate with ten minutes to go, by scoring two open goals. 
"Heidleburg was a fast team," commented sophomore goalie Ann Kuehne. "We kept up with them until the end when they had two really good shots." 
The statistics favored Heidleburg who had 22 shots on goal compared to 11 shots for the Belles. Kuehne had 15 saves for the Belles while Hiedleburg had 6. 
"The stats don't really show how well we played," said Coach Tom Van Meter. "We had a lot of opportunites that we weren't able to score on." 
"I thought that we did a pretty good job," added Raczynski. "We held up most of the game, but in the end we just fell apart." 
Despite the disappointing results, Van Meter was pleased with the team's performance. 

Legal Troubles Missouri's Jevon Crudup pleads innocent in court . while fellow NCAA hoop­sters end problems. 
see page 11 





