The Observer
(/t·. _.)7' 

VOL. XXV. -NO. 98 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Snow storm forces first shutdowns in over 15 years 
By SARAH DORAN The decision that the dining News Writer halls remain open was reached 
Storm forced 

according to a policy procedure A snow storm that dropped for weather and other crippling 

three-day

over fifteen inches of snow in situations which was adopted the Michiana area Monday by the University two years ago, night and Tuesday morning according to David Pren­

closure

forced Notre Dame and Saint tkowski, director of Food Ser­Mary's to shut down adminis­vices Administration. The policy 
By SARAH DORAN

trative facilities and cancel defines what is critical and 
News Writer 

classes yesterday. It was the essential to the University's op­first time the Universities were erations, he said, and it desig­
Yesterday's cancellation of

forced to close since a 1978 nates the dining halls, security 
classes marked the first time

blizzard. services and ground keepers as that the University has been"It would just be rather diffi­essential. 
forced to shut down since Jan­cult to expect 3,500 employees 

uary 25-27, 1978, when it

to commute to work with the The regularly scheduled din­closed for three days due to aweather conditions as bad as ing hall employees were not blizzard that dropped over 40they were, especially when forced to work, but were asked inches of snow in the area.
state and county employees to do so if possible, said Pren­The 1978 storm, which owns were advising people to travel tkowski. Those who worked a place in the record books asonly in emergency," said Dennis were paid double time, and 
Indiana's worst blizzard andBrown, assistant director of virtually all personnel sched­

was declared a Federal State of Notre Dame Public Relations. uled were able to work, he said. 

Emergency, crippled the entireBrett McLaughlin, director of The only food service employ­Midwest and caused extensiveSaint Mary's Public Relations, ees that were not asked to work damage to area businesses andsaid that the decision for Saint were those in the clerical de­homes.

Mary's to shut down was partments. 
Road conditions were cited asreached on similar grounds. The grounds staff operated as 

the greatest concern, as the

"It was determined that the in regular conditions with their blizzard forced the authoritiesweather conditions were just normal 21 employees, accord­
to order all but emergency

too intense to expect adminis­ing to Thistlethwaite. 
traffic off the highways, accord­trators and professors to com­"We just tried to stay up with 

ing to Government Professor

mute," he said. this. The whole crew is an E.A. Goerner, who resided inNotre Dame officials, includ­emergency crew and everybody the area during the storm.
ing Father William Beauchamp, has responded very well in light "We were not allowed in theexecutive vice president, Tom of the situation," he said. 
streets. Because it had been

Mason, vice president for 
declared an emergency and webusiness affairs, and Timothy Notre Dame security was not were forbidden to drive, people O'Meara, Provost. made the taking any special precautions were arrested if they were driv­

final decision to shut down, during the shutdown and was 
ing," he said. "But, with all of

according to Dennis Moore, maintaining foot and vehicle the snow, you really to were
director of Notre Dame public patrols as it would have on any unable to drive anyway." 
relations. McLaughlin said Saint other day, according to Phil 
Goerner added that he wit­Mary's came to their decision Johnson, assistant director of 

nessed a heart attack victim be-

partly based upon the decision University Security. of Notre Dame. Only three "minor public see 1978 I page 4 Officials came to their deci­emergencies" were reported to 
Miller added that about 10-20
sion based upon input from the security as of yesterday after­
students were working yester­
University's maintenance crew noon, according to Johnson. 
Candidates begin campaigns

day, whereas on a normal day
and security, whose opinion They were a minor foot injury, 
the library operates with about 
was consulted early Tuesday an injury sustained during a By EMILY HAGE Frailey of Zahm, vice-presi­
80-90 employees. 
morning. snow football game and an in­News Writer dent, Michael Caradonna of Grounds crews cited their in­jury sustained as the result of a Zahm, for treasurer, and John
History Department chairman
ability to clear the heavy snow fall. None required hospitaliza­Candidates for class office Tran of Zahm, for secretary. 
Thomas Kselman, who heard of
in addition to county warnings tion. began campaigning at Michael McEvilly of Grace is 
the shutdown by way of the
urging drivers to avoid the "But, we are not able to at­midnight on Monday, Feb. 22. running for president with
media, said that the storm was
roads as contributing to the tribute any of the injuries di­Because of the snow, some Tom Hoban of Grace, vice­
the worst since the blizzard of
decision to shutdown opera­rectly to the snow," said John­candidates were delayed in president, Mike Iorio of
1978, which he experienced at
tions. according to William son. having their posters approved Alumni, treasurer, and Molly
the University of Michigan. He
Thistlethwaite, superintendent by Student Activities, but most Doni us of Howard, secretary. 
agreed with the University's
of landscape services. The Hesburgh Library also have posted their posters, said Sean Sullivan of Zahm is
decision to shut down, adding
Administrators, professors remained open yesterday, Andrea Sullivan, election running for president with
that he would not have been
and students were alerted of although it was not operating as commissioner with Andrew Christina Bagaglio of Knott,
able to make it in the extreme
the decision to shut down by usual due to shortened hours Alfers. vice-president, Roger
conditions.
the media, which was informed and a reduced staff, according The following are the stu­Donoghue of Zahm, treasurer,
E.A. Goerner, professor of
of the situation by the Public to Robert Miller, director of dents running for office, in al­and Rachel Choquette of
government, who was also in­
Relations department, accord­University libraries. phabetical order by the name Howard, secretary. 
formed of the situation by way
ing to Moore. "We have an emergency crew of the presidential candidate. Ira Wade of Fisher is
of the media, agreed that he
The only complete University in situations like this. Ev­For sophomore class office, running for president with
would not have been able to
offices that were open as usual erything behind the scenes is Greg Bieg of Cavanaugh is Kevin Lynyak of Dillon, vice­
drive, but would have come in
yesterday were the dining halls, closed with only the public ser­running for president with president, Janet Hathaway of
because he usually walks to
grounds staff and power plant, vice open. We are operating Lisa Reidmiller of Breen­Pasquerilla East, treasurer,
school. He instead spent the day 
according to Brown. principally with student em­Phillips, vice-president, Ron and Diane Walton of 
ployees," he said. see SNOW I page 4 Jacinto of Cavanaugh, Pasquerilla West, secretary. treasurer, and Heather For senior class office Jerry McAnarney of Breen-Phillips, Boyle from off-campus is run­secretary. ning for president with Mike 

Tim Glenister of Morrissey is Earley of Morrissey, vice-pres­By JASON WILLIAMS "I think Sorln did a · running for president with Dan ident, Sarah Lowthorp of News Writer job," Mc'Si'ide said. 'Tm McConnel of Morrissey, vice­Siegfried, treasurer, and Julie 
that we won. It was just president, Julie McCarthy of Linting of Breen-Phillips, 
Over one hundred people opportunity to m 1t Howard, treasurer, and Kitty secretary. braved the snow and cold last nal$." Grummer of Lewis, secretary. Dan Connolly of Keenan is night to watch Breen-Phillips Michaela Kendall of Lewis is running for senior class presi­capture the 1993 Iceberg De­. They both went . running for president with dent with Maura Cavanagh of bates championship with a the vic · Sara Ford of Pangborn, vice­Howard, vice-president, Dave 
team···

final round victory over Sotin. president, Marc McDonald of Genel of Dillon, treasurer, and 
Breen-Phillips' team of Katie preparation help froni Ka,ren . Dillon, treasurer, and Lauren Megan Junius, secretary. McBride and Mike DuBay. a DuBay &:nd Sheihl f>4alo!l~.)'· the Aimonette of Breen-Phillips, Campaigning will end offi­Grace Hall resident, argued in other.·half ofthe Qreen·Pliiltips· secretary. cially at midnight on Sunday, affirmation of the United States squad. ·· For junior class office, Bryan Feb. 28. Elections will be held 
Congress ratifying the North Corbett of Morrissey is running on Monday, March 1 from 11 American Free Trade Agree­KKaren and Sheila have both for president with Colleen a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 7 p.m. ment in last night's final round done a lotofworkinhelping us Campbell of Farley, vice-presi­in the dorms and at the infor­while juniors John Hinding and get ready," DuBay said. "It was dent, Joe Bergan of Dillon, mation desk at LaFortune for Jonathan Lienhard of Sorin de­definitely a team effort from all treasurer, and Nick Galassi of off-campus students. bated the negative side. The four of us!' The effort was re~ Grace, secretary. If runoffs are necessary, they debate was held in the LaFor­warded With a $500 first place Ron Fanelli of Zahm is run­will be on Wednesday, March 
see ICEBERG I page 4 
tune Ballroom. prize for the dorm and a ning for president with Brody 3, according to Sullivan. 

page 2 Wednesday, February 24, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
upport the Bengals; a 




great tradition 

Matt Carbone 
Brian Weiford's hands 
drop almost im-Accent Copy Editor perceptibly. Seeing an opening, his sparring-------­
partner Kevin O'Rourke quickly flicks out a left 
'ab-right hand combination. As the two boxers 
disengage and continue to circle the ring, 
O'Rourke instructs Weiford: "Keep your hands 
up, Brian. You're dropping you right." 
This scene is a sparring session between two 
members of the Notre Dame Boxing Club, in 
preparation for the 63rd Annual Bengal Bouts. 
The Bengal Bouts were created in 1931, by 
Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano, who was guided 
by a simple philosophy: "Strong bodies fight, 
that weak bodies may be nourished." 
These simple, poetic words still guide the 
Bouts today. All proceeds from the Bengal Bouts 
go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. In 
a country where one dollar can feed a family o 
five, the approximately $15,000 donated by the 
Bouts each year really helps to make a dif­
ference. 
Beginning the first day of this semester, almost 100 students have gone through rigorous sets of calisthenics, glove drills, running and sparring. By the time training ended, many were in the best shape of their lives. Each has been taught the punches and defenses; for many, this has been their first glimpse into the sweet science. 
The culmination of all of this hard work began on Sunday, when the quarterfinals of the Bengal Bouts were held. 62 boxers in 12 weight dasses stepped into the ring to do their small part for the Bengal Missions. 
In 1954, Father Lawrence L. Graves, C.S.C. sent a letter from the Missions to Nappy. This letter is reprinted in this year's program. 
"I wish I could conduct you and the whole student body on a complete tour of the Bengal Missions here in Pakistan. I believe your enthusiasm for the Bouts and for the Bengal missionaries of Holy Cross would have a blessed closeness and intensity never before felt." 
Although it is not probable that you will make this trip, you can still do your part in support o the Missions: come out and watch the remaining rounds of the Bengal Bouts. Cheer on someone from your hall, your hometown, or just anybody at all. The boxers have worked hard, and deserve your recognition. 
The semifinals are tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the .JACC Fieldhouse, with the finals slated for Friday, Feb. 26 at 8 p.m. in the main arena. Tickets are available at the door. 
The t•iews expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

News  Systems  
Frank Rivera  Matt Carbone  
Sarah Doran  
Katie Murphy  Viewpoint  
Nora Buckley  
Production  
Melissa Cusack  Accent  
Susan Marx  Jeanne Blasi  
Sports  
Jason Kelly  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST  
Partly sunny and not  
}:  as cold today. Highs around 20.  
:·. ::  Increasing  
cloudiness and not  
as cold tonight. Lows  
around 10.  
TEMPERATURES  
·:  City  H  L  
~1  Anchorage Atlanta  33 54  27 34  
·:  Bogota  67  53  
Cairo  70  50  
:~  Chicago  20  11  
I. :·.  Cleveland Dallas Detroit  23 64 22  18 41 16  
Indianapolis  20  14  
Jerusalem  63  43  
London  45  36  
Los Angeles  59  52  
Madrid  63  36  
Minneapolis  06  06  
Moscow  36  25  
FRONTS:  Nashville New York  40 37  25 30  
Paris  39  34  
Philadelphia  37  28  
Rome  44  32  
Seattle  42  31  
South Bend  22  18  
:·:  H  L  u  Tokyo Washington, D.C.  50 37  43 30  
..i.·:  HIGH LOW ;: :· :: ::· .: ,:": .:  SHOWERS .:· .. . . ·.:  RAIN  T -STORMS FLURRIES SNOW . •' :: :· :: .·  ::.  :: .:  CLOUDY ... ·.· ;..  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Barcelona straoped after Olympics 
• BARCELONA, Spain -Six months after the summer Olympic Games ended on a dazzling high note, the host · city suffers from a nagging hangover. , . Now it's time to pay the bills, and in a ~· period of bankruptcies, rising taxes l.\ and record unemployment, residents are grumbling. "We people of Barcelona are left behind paying for this new Olympic image for a long time. There's massive uncertainty regarding Barcelona's future," said Albert Recio, professor of economics at Barcelona's Autonomous University. The city of Barcelona and the regional government of Catalunya are scheduled to pay off their $2.1 billion of combined debt by 2010. The $4 billion in public debt, also to be paid by 2010, has been assumed by Spain's central government and other public agencies. To help pay down the debt, authorities hiked a local business tax by 30 percent several months ago. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
SURV (Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center) Open House today between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. in 250 Haggar. Stop by to find out what volunteer opportunities are available within the South Bend community. 

• 
A Hospitality Luncheon to benefit Women United for Justice and Peace will be held from 11:30-1:30 tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
Informal Lecture and Discussion with Gloria Naylor, author and playwright, will be held at noon today in the Lounge of the Hesburgh Library as part of the Sophomore Literary Festival. Author and Poet Marge Piercy will speak in tomorrow's discussion, to be held at 8:30a.m. 

• 
Career and Volunteer Options with nonprofit organizations v.1ll be presented today from 4:30-5:30 at 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 23 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 394,042,030 -0.15 to 239.37 S&P COMPOSITE 

-0.44 to 434.80 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+20.81 to 3,342.99
UNCHANGED 514 

GOLD + $2.90 to $331.10/oz 
SILVER 
-$0.057 to $3.582/oz 
NATIONAL 
the Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Career and Placement Services. 
• 
Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad will hold an in­formational meeting regarding tryouts for the upcoming season tonight at 7 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFor­tune. If you have any questions, call Natalie Brohl at 284-4329 or Stacey Tischler at 634-4030. 

• 
The ND Legal Aid Clinic is sponsoring a program on current issues in landlord/tenant relations tonight at 7 


p.m. in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 
• Just a Sister Away (JUSA) will hold a general assembly tonight from 9-10:30 p.m. in the Dooley Room at LaFortune. Topic for the evening: "Stop Looking in the Mirror for Something you Already Have." For further information, contact Erica Cain at 634-4855. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1803: In its Marbury vs. Madison decision, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that it was the final interpreter of constitutional issues. 

• 
In 1821: Mexico declared its independence from Spain. 

• 
In 1868: The U.S. House of Representatives impeached President Andrew Johnson following his attempted dismissal of Secretary of War Edwin Stanton. 

• 
In 1980: The U.S. hockey team defeated Finland to clinch the gold medal at the Winter Olympics. 

• 
In 1992: James Baker told a House subcommittee that Israel should stop building settlements in the occupied territories, or forfeit $10 billion in U.S. loan guarantees. 



Wednesday, February 24, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Israelis willing to speed Palestinian return NASA officials blamed for 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Israeli officials indicated Tuesday they were willing to speed review of Palestinian deportation cases ­a move designed to aid Secre­tary of State Warren Christo­pher's efforts to resume Middle East peace talks. 
But the initial Palestinian re­sponse was cool. Hanan Ashrawi, spokeswoman for Palestinian negotiators said after they met with Christopher: 
"Under the present conditions I don't think the peace talks will 
particularly for the deportees." government policy. After the two Israeli gestures, Christo-WASHINGTON (AP) -A 
Christopher is looking for Is-pher turned to the Palestinians Republican congressman raeli gestures to enable the for their response and assis­likened top NASA officials to J;>alestinians to agree to resume -tance. the Marx Brothers on Tuesday negotiations with Israel in April. Ashrawi said she was pleased because of a financial overrun 
He planned to meet with the the Clinton administration raising the cost of a new space Palestinians again on Wednes-planned a more active U.S. role shuttle toilet from $8.2 million day. Ashrawi's statement ~o should negotiations resume-a to $23.4 million. reporters may not be the reference to promises by Palestinians' final position. Christopher that the United NASA is showing the same 
In addition to the concession States would be a "full partner" traits of insularity, incompe­on reviewing cases, Israel of-in any new talks. tence and arrogance as the 
resume. We have to try our best fered public assurances that 
to change the conditions, deporting Palestinians is not shuttle toilet cost overruns 



The Observer
50TH ANNIVERSARY 
THE SHOW 
CELEBRATION YOU REMEMBER! 
is now accepting applications 
OPENS TOMORROW! 
Rodgers~,
Hammerstem s 
OKLAHOMA~ 
Music by 
RICHARD RODGERS Book and Lyrics by OSCAR 
HAMMERSiEIN 
Based on !he plaY Green G,... rt>e uacs by Lynn RlllQS O<'Qinal earces by 
AGNES DE MILLE 

Directed by JAMES P. BIRDER Musical Direction by NANCY MENK Choreography by INDI DIECKGRAFE Set &Lighting Design by SHAUN L. WELLEN Costumes by SYDNEY WELLEN 
Tlusday -Sallrday 
FEBRUARY 25-27, 8:00 P.M. 
Sulday 
FEBRUARY 28, 2:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS: $5 (St.I'S-ND community with valid i.d.) Available at the Saint Mary's Box Office O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 9am.-5 p.m. Charge Orders and Information: 284-4626 
for the following paid positions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent and a resume to Meredith McCollough by 5 p.m., Monday, February 22, 19~3. For questions about any of the positions, call Meredith at 631-5323. 
Loaded Weapon I PG13 5:15, 7:30, 10:00 The Vanishing A 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Groun<llog Day PG 
4:45, 7:15, 9:45 



Undergraduate Clubs: 
Remember, registration and budget packets are due 
by March 3rd at 5 p.m., 
. 

in the Club Coordination Council Office (206 LaFortune). 
Any Questions or problems­call the CCC at 631-4078 or stop by during posted office hours! 
Pentagon in the 1980s when it got caught up in a pro­curement scandal, asserted Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, Jr., R-Wis., ranking minority member of the House space subcommittee. 
"It would be_ a sure relief to all of us," he said at a hearing, "if the nameplates for our ftrst panel (of witnesses) read: Harpo, Chico and Groucho." 
One of the nameplates be­longed to NASA's new shuttle boss, Maj. Gen. Jeremiah Pearson III, who conceded readily that the space agency goofed on the toilet contract. 
"This is an unfortunate event," he testified. "We didn't do it right. There were mistakes made. We will ftx it." 
Pearson promised that NASA "will no longer allow programs to run over cost, over time." He said he was dedicated to reducing flight costs by 30 percent in ftve years. 
But he defended the toilet, which was flown for the ftrst time aboard the shuttle En­deavour in January -and was described by astronauts as working ftne. The old shuttle toilet was considered to be inadequate for long-duration flights to come. 



The Observer 

ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kenya johnson by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kenya at 631-4540 for more information about either position. 

LAST CHANCE SKI TRIP! 

DOWNHILL SKI TRIP SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE 5:00PM RETURNS TO CAMPUS BY 11 :OOPM 
COST: $25.00 INCLUDES LIFT, RENTAL AND TRANSPORT $17.00 INCLUDES LIFT AND TRANSPORT 

BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE 
REGISTER AT RECSPORTS BY FRIDAY NOON!!!!!! 

page 4 
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 24, 1993 



Snow 
continued from page 1 
preparing for upcoming classes. 
Many students reacted to the situation by spending the day playing in the snow or studying for upcoming midterms. 
"It was a welcome break from classes, which I spent playing snow football and relaxing at home" said 

Iceberg 
continued from page 1 
Mike Dubay said he was somewhat "side-tracked" into debating for a girls dorm. He promised his sister, Karen, last summer that he would debate for Breen-Phillips. He said he had put the thought out of his mind until his sister jogged his memory just last month. 
never debated before this year's Iceberg Series. 
Although Sorin walked away with a $250 runners-up prize, they said they were obviously disappointed for going so far without winning the champi­onship. 
"We've worked really hard the past four weeks and it was a total team effort," Lienhard said. "We kicked around all kinds of ideas and strategies, and overall this has been a good 
"Compared to other years, I think this year's tournament went smoothly," she said. "Problems in the past have been with coordinating judges for all the different rounds, but this year we had really no trou­bles." 
Iceberg judges are Notre Dame faculty, staff and law stu­dents. Listerman said they all volunteer their time to take part in the debates. 
"They are really volunteering a lot when they come out on a night like this," she said. "I didn't know what to expect with the snow and all, but fortu­nately everything went well." 
TURN OUT YOUR LIGHTS! 

Morrissey Hall sophomore Mike "My sister reminded me of my experience. We'll definitely be Martin. promise just a few weeks before back next year." "It gave me a chance to study the debates began," DuBay for my organic chemistry test, said. "I wasn't real sure I was Amy Listerman, Iceberg De­

CollEgE REpublicANs

and also to play a little ready for this; I have never bates chair, was happy with the Nintendo on the side," said debated in my life until now." proceedings of the final round Lyons Hall sophomore Beth McBride also said she had and the entire debate series. Krappman. 1 
WE ARE CORdiAlly iNViTiNG All CURRENT 

Weather reports call for bru­ally cold temperatures to dom­
MEMbERS ANd All THOSE iNTERESTEd TO

nate the next few days. The next storm system, which is still 24-36 hours away, will 
ATTENd THE fiRST MEETiNG UNdER NEW




The Observer
produce additional snow in the southern Michigan and north­
ANd iMpROVEd lEAdERSHip

ern Indiana area. Heavy ac­cumulation is not expected. 
~IEWPOINT DEPARTMENT
According to weather re­ports, thawing of any sort is 
is now accepting applications 
not expected until at least early 
MoNTGOMERY THEATRE 

March. 
for the following positions: 
LAFORTUNE 
THURSdAy, FEbRUARY 2 5 

1978 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors 
6:~0 p.M.

continued from page 1 
Viewpoint Copy Editors 
ing transported to the hospital on a snowmobile due to the crippling road conditions. 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a The severity of the storm was 
resume to Rolando de Aguiar by 5 p.m., Wednesday, 
The Observer

such that it warranted the or­
February 24, 1993. Contact Rolando at 631-4541 for 
ganization of an emergency airlift of food and other neces­
is now accepting applications 

more information about either position. 
sities to about 63,000 St. 
for the following Saint Mary's positions: 

Joseph County residents in 17 isolated areas of the county. But, the airlift was scrapped late on the blizzard's last day 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor

2nd Annual 
when roads were reopened for automobile traffic. 
O'MALLEY UNDERGRADUATE 
Saint Mary's News Editor

After the brunt of the storm had passed, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students turned 
TEACHING AWARD 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

out to help handicapped and elderly South Bend residents 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor

cope with the blizzard's effects. 
Needed: Freshman through Seniors
The volunteer operation, which was organized by WSND 
Please submit a one-page statement of 

from all undergraduate schools to
and student government, helped by shovelling out over 
select this year's recipient. 
intent and a resume to Jennifer Habrych by

40 homes, and the parking lots of both the Saint Joseph's Hos­
5 p.m., Thursday, February 25, 1993. 

pital and Goodwill. 
How to apply: Obtain forms in 
Applications can be dropped off at either 

Student Government, on the 2nd 
the Notre Dame Observer office or the 

floor of Lafortune and return forms
Don't spend 
Saint Mary's Observer office. For more 

by March 3. 
information about any of the positions, call 

an hour in 
Jennifer at 631-5303 or 284-4312. 

Any questions? Call Megan at 271-8888 
your shower! 

God gives each

Sponsored by Student Government and the Alumni Association. 
ALUMNI==== 

personone lifetime.
Ill 

What are you

!CLUB 
doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR?

Juniors! 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime 
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. " Scholarship assistance is available. 

Applu todau for bartender positions! 
Call or write for information: 

Applications can be plrned up in the Student Activities Office, 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross 

3rd tloor LHFortune Box 541 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
I

Dct1dlinc: i1t1rch 19, 199J 

Wednesday, February 24, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Rio celebration draws to close 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil (AP) was drunk. Authorities could -As the four-day Carnival cel­not be reached for comment. · ebration came to a close Tues­day, Rio's spectacular samba Tens of thousands of feath­parade hit a sour note when ered and sequined dancers took rock-throwers clashed with part in Rio's two-day parade military police. that ended early Tuesday. More 
In an accident connected with than 75,000 spectators cheered carnival. a truck carrying 80 on the dancers, and huge people on their way to a local percussion groups marching on parade drove off a cliff in Cen­and between elaborate floats. tro do Carmo, 100 miles from On each day, seven of Rio's Rio. and 10 were killed. includ­"samba schools"-neighbor­ing two children. Sixty were in­hood groups from the mostly jured and taken to hospitals. black slums -marched for 10 
Passengers told TV Globo that hours in the six-block-long the truck driver, who survived, Sambadrome arena. 
Attention Juniors! JPW Pictures! 
The candid proofs that were taken at the JPW Friday Gala will be on display for ordering purposes. Remember the token color that the photographer gave you so that you can look at the right proof boards. Bring a check and ftll out an order form. 
VVednesday,Feb.24 6:00-9:00 pm Thursday, Feb. 25 12:00-5:00 pm Friday, Feb. 26 12:00-6:00 pm Saturday, Feb. 27 2:00-6:00 pm Sunday,Feb.28 2:00-5:00 pm 
Sorin Room First Floor LaFortune 

ACourse In 
Economics. 
Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality. 
~-------l~-------]1-------l 
:$1.00 Off: :$5.00 Off: l 200/o Off l 
: Haircut :: Penn ::An Haircare! 
I I I I I I I With student 1.0. 1 1 With student I. D. 1 1 With stuoont lD 1 No double diScounts No double d1scounts No double discounts 
I reg $8.95 I I I I I I MasterCuts I I MasterCuts I I MasterCuts I
L_______JL _______JL_______j 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Reg1s COfOOI'&IIon 1992 
277-3770 

BART CAMPOLO Director, Kingdomworks 
"Our Responsibilities to the Inner City" 7:00p.m. Friday, February 26 c.s.c. 
sponsored by InterVarsity Christian Fellowship 

erver 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Graphics Manager Illustrations Manager 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kevin Hardman by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24,1993. Contact Kevin at 631-7471 for more information about either tion. 
Notre Dame 
8:10p.m. 10p.m. 10 p.m. 10 p.m. . tO p.m. 

Student and senior ble Wednesday, 
Thursday and at the LaFortune 
Ticket Office. call: 631-8128. 
1 
i 
L.A. schools debut gun control effort 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The reality behind the lesson re­cited by 15 children in an ele­mentary school library Tuesday was as close as the headline on a newspaper on a desk: "Student Shot, Dies at Reseda High." 
Helping teach them how to prevent gun violence was James Brady, the former White House press secretary who was seriously wounded in the 1981 attempted assassination of President Reagan. 
What do you do if you see a gun? asked Christine Davis, counselor at Weemes Elemen­tary School in a neighborhood southwest of downtown. 
"Don't touch the gun. Get out of the situation. Tell a trusted adult," answered the young­sters, who wore blue sashes marked "Peacemaker." 
The demonstration of the new program in the Los Angeles Unified School District coin­cidentally came the day after the second fatal shooting on a district campus in one month. 
Correction 
In a story in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly reported the Saint Mary's College Ash Wednesday Mass as spon­sored by Board of Gover­nance. The Mass is sponsored by Campus Ministry. In a related story, Melissa Whelan was incorrectly identified as the spiritual life commissioner of Student Activities Board, rather than spiritual life commissioner of Board of Governance. The Observer regrets the error. 
Mendoza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 
241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of St. Mary's 
272-7510 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, February 24, 1993 

Dear Editor: 
As the largest employer in St. Joseph County Indiana, mem­bers of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community should be made aware of a proposal to impose a County Option Income Tax (COlT) on all residents and/or employees within the county. This proposal would amount to six tenths of one percent (0.6 percent) of the income of virtually all ND/SMC faculty, staff, and employed students. 
As many of you may know this county is plagued with nepotism, political favors, county employees doing per­sonal work on county time, and at least two cases of apparent embezzlement. There have been no serious attempts to re­duce spending or cut costs. 
If passed this tax will cost all ND/SMC employees a significant amount at a time when other taxes are likely to be going up. If you oppose yet one more level of government reaching into your pocket you must call the local powers that be to tell 
DOONESBURY 
(IJ{U, THAT ABOUT IX51T. YOU I J/.J'!!ir Nee/J 60T 
YOUR. SIGNA­/T. 
TUR&,MAN. 
/ I 

County income tax proposal would also hit Notre Dame 
them to vote in opposition to 
this proposal. 
You can call the St. Joseph County Council at 284-9658 and the County Commissioners at 
284-9534 to register your opposition or to get the names and numbers of the individual 
council members so that you can contact each one individu­ally, You can also come to the 4th floor of the County-City
Bidg. downtown South Bend on 
March 2 at 7:00 PM to tell the county council how you feel in a public forum. It is your right to speak. so use it. You can call me at 631-5755 
or 272-7606, and I will provide you with all the names and numbers. You do not have to be 
a resident to speak against this ~fj~~-~~~ 
tax, as you will be taxed even if ;l 
you don't live here but receive 
an income within the county 
(students take note if you work 
here!). If you don't speak up, 
you will pay the price. 
spair of the present situation. Barry Baumbaugh 
For in turning back to God, we Physics Department open ourselves up as channels Feb.23, 1993 through which the healing 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

7HANK'3 Fa<. H£1.-PING 
H&Y, NO 
TAk&
M& 5TA51-/ MY '5TASH, 
PIW8l.l:M, CAR&.
AM160. YOU IAJ!;I<£3 
/rlllJIJ.
A 816 HeLP. \ 
\
I 
WSND seeks input about campus radio 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Mike Scrudato's Feb. 16 "Inside Col­umn" ("WSND's the Other Ra­dio Alternative") WSND has be­come intensely curious about what students think about campus radio here at NO. 
The column praised WSND's "Nocturne" program, which features alternative/progressive rock every night between midnight and 2 a.m. However, Mr. Scrudato went on to ex­press his dismay over the pro­gram's late start time and pro­posed it be rolled back to 10 
p.m. • providing an additional two hours per night of this area's only stereo alternative 
music. 
This is an important issue to the WSND staff, and we have responded by sending out a 
survey to random students
from both Notre Dame and
Saint Mary's. Your input is vi­tal! Please take the time to fill out this survey and send it back to Pete Matthews. 214 Alumni 
Hall, Notre Dame. Thank you. Pete Matthews WSND Program Director 
Feb. 19•1993 
~~~~~~~groups, sexes, social classes, political parties and factions, and entire nations. Such a state of affairs is bound to con­tinue in the measure that hu­manity turns its heart away from the Love that is God. Nonetheless, we need not de-
NIC& M&&TING )QI,MR.. .,.MR .... 
"(}()()Ne38lJiiY"' 
I 
Lent is the time to turn back to God and reflect 
Dear Editor: The season of Lent is a time when Christians are called to 
reflect on the great chasm that sin creates between humanity and God. 
It is not very difficult to rec­ognize that separation as it manifests itself in the evils of 
today's world. It is perhaps most immediately apparent in the violence, the hatred, and the tension that too often per­vade relations between individ­ual persons, racial and ethnic 
'Everybody making more that 
$36,000 a year will have their taxes increased if Bill Clinton is President of the United States.' 
Dan Quayle 
-Debating with AI Gore at the Vice Presidential debates; Oct. 13, 1992 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
power of divine peace and love might flow, thus helping the world towards a realization of the Kingdom "on earth as it is in heaven." One traditional means by which Christians­and monotheists in general­have sought reconciliation with God is prayer. With full confi­dence in the importance of prayer for the spiritual and moral well-being of human kind, and for genuine peace in a troubled world, Pax Christi 
N.D. is sponsoring three prayer vigils during this Lenten season. Each will take place at Stonehenge at 6:00 p.m., the first on February 26, the second on March 26, and the third on April 2nd. Each will last be­tween 30 and 45 minutes, weather permitting. Please do come join us in prayer. 
Paul Rowe St. Ed's Hall Feb.23,1993 

-------------------------------------------------------------~------­

Accent 
Wednesday, February 24, 1993 page 7 
Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 


On the road 
again: places 
to roadtrip 
N 
ow that football season is over and the weather will hopefully get better, 
students find their weekends finally 
vacant. Although South Bend is 
loaded with weekend entertainment 
options, some students may want to broaden 
their horizons beyond the scope of Corby's and 
Bridget's. Here are some fabulous roadtrip ideas 
for the adventurous and even the under-aged. 
Graceland: You have already purchased the 
stamp so now make the trip and pay a tribute to 
his shrine. Yes, go to this infamous hovel and 
look for the king himself. If you actually find this 
man, dead or alive, get your picture taken with 
him and make a cool million from "The National 
Enquirer." Elvis attire is in order for this 
road trip. 
Las Vegas: Looking for some fast spring break 
cash? With next semester's tuition money and a 
little Irish luck you could be the next millionaire. 
This town is characterized by its lavish hotels 
with huge pools, bars and casinos. One could 
probably break every rule in "DuLac " in just a 
few short hours in this haven of sin. Warning: 
go soon, before the mass tax increase. 
Rome, Wisconsin: Does this town actually 
exist? Watch the television series "Picket 
Fences" being filmed live, twins and all. This 
town bears a striking resemblance to Notre 
Dame. particularly because of the judges' 
handbook called "DuFence." 
Niagara Falls: Besides the actual falls, which 
are beautiful in themselves, this town is full of 
fabulous entertainment. Visit the wax museums, 
with lifelike figures of Elvis and Elvira, the fun 
house, or one of the several thousand bead-and­
trinket stores. One can buy everything 
from snowy domes of the falls, to Niagara falls 
underwear and seashells. Of course every item 
was made in this small tourist trap town, just 
ignore the "made in Taiwan" stickers. 
Disney World: If you have an abundance of 
cash, I highly recommend this playground. 
Second only to the Notre Dame bookstore in 
selling overpriced items with its logo on it, this 
park can be educational as well as expensive. 
However, it is a far drive, and I don't recommend 
watching the "Electric Light Parade" too long; 
the theme song from this parade will plague you 
for the rest of your life-"Da-da-da-da-da .... " 
Kansas: No Notre Dame student's life could be 
complete without visiting the site of the crash 
which took the life of Knute Rockne. Second 
semester seniors, you only have a few weeks left. 
Take advantage of your free weekends and make 
the long journey before graduation. Remember: 
the clock is ticking. 
The "Ferris Bueller's Day Off Chicago tour": 
You have watched the movie several hundred 
times. It is time to reenact your hero's every 
move. Take a sunny day off from classes and 
journey to Chicago to follow Ferris' route, 
complete with a Cubs game. Just beware-Patty 
O'Hara could be hot on your track. 
The Hesburgh Library: Believe it or not, there 
are some south quad residents who would 
equate going to the library with a road trip, 
particularly in sub-zero temperatures. Explore 
this intricate study haven. Perhaps you will rub 
elbows with Ted himself on the top floor. 
Monitor the decreasing noise levels as you make 
your way to the top floors. Play with UNLOC and 
then, when the day is done, have a snack in 'the 
pit.' This 'road trip' is a must do for all students. 
Now that you have a destination, load up the car and just go. Pick up your copy of "Dulac" and hit the open road. Just remember that a college education is more than studying, it is experiencing life with your friends and verbalizing these experiences in top ten lists in "The Observer." 
Jeanne Blasi is production manager of The 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 
Atravel through time 
'The Heidi Chronicles' explores contemporary issues 
BY ELISABETH HEARD 
Accent Writer 
What happens when eleven talented actors, a good director, and a powerful script all come together? What is created is "The Heidi Chronicles," a riveting play brilliantly directed by Reginald Bain, associate professor of communication and theater at Notre Dame. 
"The Heidi Chronicles" will be performed at Washington Hall from Wednesday, February 24, to Saturday, February 27 at 8:10p.m. and Sunday, February 28 at 3:10p.m. 
"The Heidi Chronicles" is a play reviewing the life of art historian, Heidi Holland (Jeannie Goodnow). The audience sees the different stages in Heidi's life, from 1965 to 1993 and actually grows up with her. 
The play begins in the present with Heidi teaching her college class about several female painters by showing pictures of the paintings on a slide projector. This scene is realistic because the audience feels as though they are not really watching but participating in the play. 
One of the pictures in particular, a picture of a young woman in a flowing dress holding a rose and a watch, triggers Heidi's memory and sends her back in time. 
It is a high school dance, where Heidi's best friend, Susan (Erin O'Malley) instructs Heidi on how to attract guys so that they will come and dance with her. 
It is at this point that Heidi meets Peter (Michael Scarsella) a shy, somewhat nerdy boy attracted to Heidi because she brought along a book to the dance. This is the begin­ning of a friendship that develops and blossoms to become an integral part of the plot. 
The scene moves to 1968, where Heidi, now a young woman, runs into Scoop Rosenbaum (Stan Sawicki), an arrogant, narcissistic journalist They are at a McCarthy dance where both of them claim they are waiting for someone, and in the meantime exchange conversation. Scoop comes across as being very harsh and irritating, and says things to the young Heidi that make-her blush. 

BY LARISSA HERCZEG 
Accent Writer 
Internationally published Marge Piercy will speak tonight at the Sophomore Literary Festival. Piercy is expected to read some of her poetry as well as an essay or excerpt from some of her other longer pieces. The reading, at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium, will be followed by a reception in the Library Lounge. Piercy will also hold a discussion on Feb. 25 (Wednesday) at 8:30 p.m. 
Raised in Detroit, Piercy has lived in Chicago, Boston, Paris, San Francisco, and New York. Now living in Cape Cod, Piercy spends a great deal of time travelling to give poetry readings and workshops. Piercy's has written several books of poetry, fiction, plays and essays. Her works have appeared in over 200 periodicals, and eight of her novels, and three poetry books have been translated into foreign languages, including Japanese, German, and French. 
Not only an accomplished writer, Piercy is also very involved in many social groups. It was her political activism coupled with her literary 
Through his probing, however, and his journalistic instincts, he comes to the conclusion that Heidi is a serious, good person, a thing that is hard to find. 
Time passes again and it is 1971. Susan has convinced Heidi to come with her to a consciousness raising rap group, and here she comes in contact with some very flamboyant personalities. 
Becky (Frani McLaughlin). is a teenager who is living with a verbally abusive man ever since her parents left her. Fran (Colleen Montoya), is a lesbian whose brutal "honesty" is full of hatred and vulgarity, and Jill (Keri Latherow). is a happy-go-lucky housewife and mother. It is at this point that the feminist theme becomes prevalent, and they set the tone for the rest of the play. 
Fran, the lesbian, is a strong, dynamic and outspoken character for the short amount of time she spends on stage. 
The year changes to 1974, and Heidi is participating in a protest in front of the Chicago Art Institute because of their lack of exhibits by female artists. It is at this point that Peter reveals that he is is gay, and, besides being involved with a man 
accomplishments that compelled the committee to invite Piercy to speak. 
"It was partially because of her diversity, her feminism and anti-war involvement, that we invited her. We felt she would bring an interesting perspective to the Festival," said Kerry McArdle, Chairperson of the Literary Festival. Piercy's Jewish heritage, feminism, and involvement in other political activist groups provides an interesting contrast to the student body of Notre Dame. 
One of her many talents lies in her ability to indirectly address ideas. "Summer People," one of Piercy's more recent novels does just that. Piercy indirectly rediscovers the struggles of a Jewish female in today's culture. Her most recent book of Poetry, "Mars and her Children," examines non-traditional named Stanley, he has just begun dating a waiter named Chris (Steve Susco). 
relationships  that  provide  an  
interesting perspective.  
"It's  human,  not  bizarre  or  

Peter's homosexuality is a persistent theme that is very important to the development of his character. It is this fact that keeps him and Heidi from being more than very good friends. Heidi is shocked, and upset because inside she had feelings for Peter, but now she realizes that their love can never be. After these feelings are reconciled, however, she continues to have a long and lasting friendship with Peter. 
These themes are very strong, and provide the basis and backbone for the script. "I hope it will spark conversation about how men and women communicate," said Bain. 
Bain chose this play because he wanted a contemporary play with lots of roles for women. "I wanted a play for women," Bain said. "It is a real challenge, and something different for the kids." 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk for $7. Student and senior citizen tickets are available for $5 for the Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday performances. 
disgusting. She is extremely sensitive about women and their roles in society and emphasizes it by creating unique twists," said Emily Lehrman, a member of the Literary Festival Committee. Lehrman explained that a great deal of Piercy's work deals with an examination of what it is to be a female, especially in a male dominated society. Piercy truly seems to be in touch with the thoughts of society and how individuals interact. 
Piercy claims to, "live by my writing and giving poetry readings and workshops," and her abilities reflect this. Although Piercy does do some teaching, she prefers giving workshops and readings to the classroom. 
While a great deal of her time is dedicated to social activist groups, Piercy always makes time to continue her workshops. This does however, serve to be somewhat difficult as Piercy spends about a third of the time on the road, spending a day or two a week in Boston. Piercy enjoys the workshops, activism, and her writing. When deciding how to spend her time, she said she works, "as the spirit seizes me." 
.. 
... 

----~~ ~-~--­
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1993 

Northwestern next for women's tennis 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame women's tennis team squares off against Northwestern today in Evanston. II., the Irish will face a squad strikingly similar to its own. 
In fact. the biggest differ­ence on paper between the two teams may be their school col­ors. 
The Wildcats and the Irish are both young teams, starting three freshmen and only one senior. Both squads are among the top teams in the Midwest region, making today's contest a must-win match for Nrthwestern and Notre Dame. 
"They're a really young team," said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "and they've been struggling because of that lack of age and experience. But they're improving and develop­ing into a solid team. We re­cruited two of their three freshmen, so that shows how similar we are." 
The Irish, while not neces­sarily struggling, have also had their share of difficulties this season. A schedule which in­cluded six matches against top­25 teams left them with a 2-5 record before beating LSU and TCU last weekend. At 4-5 now, the Irish would like to raise their record to .500 before their mid-semester break. 
"If we go into our break 5-5, I will be satisfied," said Louder­back. "With our schedule, that is a record I can be happy with." 
Junior Lisa Tholen noted 

another reason the match will be important for the Irish. 
"We need to win this match because it's within our region, and that's important as far as NCAA consideration," she said. "If we play like we did last weekend [against LSU and TCU) we should be fine." 
The team with the top record in each of the nation's six regions automatically quali­lies for the NCAA tournament. The Midwest region is com­prised of mostly Big Ten, Mid­American, and Midwest Colle­giate Conference teams. The Irish are currently 2-0 versus Midwest opponents. 
Following the match with the Wildcats, Notre Dame will be off until a March 7 visit to Kansas to take on the Jay­hawks. 
Ohio State stuns No.1 Indiana, 81-77 
COLUMBUS. Ohio (AP) ­Jamie Skelton hit 3-point shots at the end of regulation and with 40 seconds left in overtime as Ohio State ­winners of only three of its last 11 games-upset No.l-ranked Indiana 81-77 Tuesday night. 
With the score tied at 77, Skelton, who led Ohio State with 22 points, was wide open from the top of arc and hit his fourth 3-pointer of the game to put Ohio State ahead 80-77. 
Lawrence Funderburke later added a free throw as Ohio ·St.ate moved to 13-10 overall and 6-8 in the Big Ten. Indiana fell to 24·3 and 13-1. 
The victory marked the third straight time that Ohio State has beaten a No.1 team. The Buckeyes beat Iowa in 1987 and Indiana in 1983 in its last two meetings with a top­ranked team. 
Skelton hit an off-balance 3­pointer with three seconds re­maining to put Ohio State ahead 71-70. 
With two seconds remaining, Indiana threw the ball the length of the court as the buzzer sounded. But Ohio State's Derek Anderson was called for running over a pick set by Chris Reynolds. That was the fifth foul on Anderson, who had 20 points for the Buckeyes. 
Reynolds went to the line 
with two seconds on the clock and hit the first free throw to tie it. He missed the second, and Ohio State's Alex Davis missed a 50-foot heaVf~ as the buzzer sounded again. 
Ohio State hit its final six shots from the field, while Indiana missed its last seven in regulation. 
In the overtime, Ohio State scored the first six point.<> on a Davis 3-pointer and a three­point play by Funderburke, a former Indiana player who transferred to Ohio State two years ago. 
But Indiana came back to pull even on a layup by Brian Evans with 2:34 left. The teams traded possessions until Davis missed two shots but got his own rebound each time with a minute left. 
Skelton then came off a pick near the top of the key and hit the shot that put Ohio State ahead for good. 
Evans missed a 3·point shot with 11 seconds and then was tied up on the rebound attempt by Greg Simpson and Funder­burke. The possession arrow favored Ohio State and Fun­derburke was fouled with 6.8 seconds left, hitting one free throw to clinch the outcome. 
Funderburke and Simpson each had 12 points for Ohio State. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and tram 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 

NOTICES  II  WANTED  Rider sought returning from spring break in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian 3677.  Oak Hill Condo For Sale 3 bdrm, 3 bath, family room 271-7288  11111111111111!1!111!111!!!!1!11!11111111!1111 Will Lorrei's snap-a-scam man  GOING TO OR THRU PA FOR $PRING BREAK?? I NEED A RIDE! ERIN X2963  
~------------------~  SUMMERJOBS  please reveal himself.  
TYPING 287~4082  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Ride(s} needed to Washington DC  STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette  11111!1!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!111!11!111!!!1!!!!!!  Good Luck to the Liberal  
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  area for spring break. Flexible on  recorder, turntable, am/lm radio,  Homosexual Pediatrician  
TYPING 256-6657  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  date and time ot departure. Will  graphic equalizer. Good condition.  We are patiently awaiting our  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  help pay tor gas and tolls. Call and  Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy  Astrologer. Birth Charts & Personal  spaghetti dinner. April and Mary  
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's  CALL 1·800-786-8373.  ask for anyone at X4721 or X4758.  at 233-2407.  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  Beth  
in the Bookmobile 12·4 daily 233· 2342 ND Ave & Howard  Adoption-Active, Young couple  RIDE WANTED to Ricmond/DC  Services, Box 8038, South Bend. IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  To the guy who snapped a scam ot  
wants to adopt your bundle of joy.  area for break flexible on time, will  WEDDING DRESS: SIZE 9/10.  Kristen (blue dress, flower in  
GRETUTOR  Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call  help with tolls & gas, can drive stick.  VERY ELEGANT. MUST SEE TO  I NEED A RIDE TO EAST. PAl  mouth}: Please call me--I'M DYING  
TOM  Peggy 1-800-682-8628.  Call Marc  APPRECIATE. COST $1200 NEW,  NJ FOR SPRING BREAK.  TO KNOW WHO YOU ARE!!!  
288-6578  4-1128  ASKING $475. CALL EVENINGS  WILL PAY$$$$1  
Eat the GRE tor lunch Ill  Looking for someone driving  (616} 473-2107.  CALL MAUREEN AT 2862  Tom Arkell:  
ILOST & FOUND I  to Phoenix for spring break with room to haul a Mac SE, with printer and keyboard, to  #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# I NEED A RIDE TO  VACATION PKG FOR 2-4 day 3­ I NEED A RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA  Thank you lor the Snap~A­Scam photo! You've got a great smile.  
LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. Lost on 219/93. REWARD! II If found contact Bully at x3772.  destination in that city. I'll contribute $50 toward travel expenses. Call 234-6747; leave message on machine it  MIAMI(OH} UNIV. THIS WEEKEND WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS CALL BRIAN 4-2081  night stay (sun· Thu} with Restaurant & Attractions coupon bk. at Hilton hotel-Las Vegas, Orlando or Hilton Head. 30-day notice  MARCH 50R6 CALL JULIE X3736 Bookstore Basketball XXII  -Your secret admirer P.S. Keep smiling, I may be watching.  
LOST: heavy gold tone chain link bracelet somewhere between north quad and Debartolo on 215. Great sentimental value . Call Liz x1345  no one home. Help I Need ride to DE/PA for Spring Break -leave Thur/Fri Will Pay $ Amanda x4957  #"/o#"/o#%#%11"/o#%#%#%#%# N.D. souvenier collector seeking N.D. student ID  needed. Offer good to 511/93. $250. 273~1702. ND Apex One Jacket Medium, Almost New  SIGN-UPS SUNDAY Feb.28 Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For  Rock City I Rock & Roll! PALACE LAUNDRY Dalloway"s Coffeehouse  
... -..  LOST LOST LOST LOST BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER GLOVES at the SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL JACKIE at x2205-my hands are freezing! LOST: All my keys on Black Shoestring Keyring around Lewis Hall. Keys say ··sam, aloha hawaii" Call Sam @ 4·4842. LOST: BROWN LEATHER JACKET SATURDAY OUTSIDE OF MORRISSEY. CALL 4-2338. Lost: Long. forest green wool coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our coats were accidently switched · I have a similar, bluish-green coat. Please hurry ~ JPW is coming up! Call4966. Found: one slightly damaged gold earring 2116, in B 1 parking lot between stadium and DeBart. Call Ron at 273-1871 to identity. Attention I I found your gold, claddagh earring! Call4·3842. ''SCARF-SCARF-SCARF'' Somehow I've managed to lose three ot them within the last tour weeks. One is big and grey, two are small and black. Please call Paula @ 4271 it you lind any ot them. l"m freezing Ill  SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach wanted for H.S. level team. Call 277·4791 tor details. l"m a-going to Disney World! Actually, I am going home to Orlando, the City Beautiful. home of much more than Shaq and Mickey, tor Spring Break. l"ve got some room, too. Join me. Call toll~ free 273·0895, and ask for Ro. DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO INDIANA UNIVERSITY FEB 26·28 WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND TOLLS CALL JOIE X2909 HELP! I need a ride to the DC area for break! PLEASE!!! Will help w/gas & tolls. Call X3823 Help! Need ride to DEIPA for Spring Break · leave Thur/Fri Will pay $ Amanda x4957 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING · Earn $2,000+/month +world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.} Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206~634-0468 ext. C5584.  call John at 233·3059. .____F_O_R_R_E_N_T_ _JI Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom House now tor 93-94 school year 234~ 1886 FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232·3616 BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219~291·7153. 6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272~6306 FOR SALE New JVC Stereo System With Infinity Speakers. Tuner, Disc, Double Cassette. Half Price Call 1·8323  $60 or make an offer ['" M;;:~ONAL HEY ALL YOU HOOVERS! NAMAST'E HOOVER YA TONIGHT AT THE HOOVER!! .......HELPJt••••••• DESPERATE BUT BEAUTIFUL GIRL SEEKS A RIDE TO/FROM PHI LA. AREA FOR SPRING BREAK PLEASE CALL LIZ, X2373 Desperate female seeking ride to D.C. area tor spring break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah @ 284-4308 and leave message. DO YOU HAVE YOUR BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL TEAM NAME YET??? WELL. SIGN-UPS are on February 28th so get those dirty minds working now so you don't come up with something we can easily SNUB. Sincerely, The Bookstore Guys  more information call Nancy at 232­5843. Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full·time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art. music, the best education. endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212}369·2597. '''SPRING BREAK LOANS' .. From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 30 Day Loans Up to $250 @1% Interest Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge Need a ride to North Carolina over Spring Break. Call Dave at 4-3662 SOUTH PADRE, BEACHFRONT, RADISSON RESORT, PARTIES, CONTESTS. SLEEPS 6~8 AND MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA HOUSE, SLEEPS 4·6. $750. WK. 212-472·1414.  St. Mary's College 10:00-12:00 TONIGHT! Attention Freshmen! Elections tor next year's class officers are March 1st. Vote for the ticket with experience· Vote for KENDALL. FORD, AIMONETIE, McDONALD! Help! I need a ride to NC tor break. Will share expenses. Call Kathleen X4423 I need a ride to South Dakota or anywhere west for Spring Break. Please call Mindy @4311 HELP WANTED, PART TIME Need a Notre Dame student, prelerrably a grad student or an upperclass student who is familiar with Notre Dame sports history to research 365 items of sports history about Notre Dame by March 1 . Willing to pay $400. If interested write or call: XENA CALENDARS INC. P.O. BOX 2653 KALAMAZOO, Ml 49003 616-372-4495. AmerlCIUJ Red Groos +  

.. --.. "'-"' .. -.. ~------------l 


Wednesday, February 24, 1993 The Observer 
page 9 

lLlEN1I'I8W lF.&.<CUJIL1I'1t' IRJE1I'IRI8.&.'II' 
For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses 
Taubenheim makes an immediate impact for Saint Mary's hoops 
By BETH REGAN Sports Writer 
Jennie Taubenheim, . a freshman from Kohler, Wis­consin, has been a major factor for the Saint Mary's basketball team this year. 
"I believe that Jennie turned our record around, " said coach Marv Wood. "We could have had a losing season without her." 
Taubenheim began playing basketball in the eighth grade for a small school in Kohler. Although her two brothers played basketball and football in high school, her parents are not sports oriented. 
"I come from very un-athletic parents," Taubenheim said. "I owe a lot to my high school 
Purdue will see a different men's volleyball team 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
Last month in West Lafayette, the Irish men's volleyball team played Purdue with an injury­decimated team and were upset in 4 games. Tonight, the Irish expect a much different story when they face the Boilermakers at 7:30 in the Pit at the J.A.C.C. with a full squad. 
''They were pretty cocky last time," said club president Pat Madden, who was sidelined with a heel injury in the first match. "It will be a much, much different story tonight, I think." . 
The Irish had no trouble with the Cincinnati Bearcats last Friday, beating them 15-10, 15-12, 15-11 without the services of captain Brian Ceponis, who was on campus for JPW. The Irish benefited from Bearcat hitting errors and other 
~~------~~~~~~~~~~
Footstompin' Friday 
It's Back -Better than Ever Country Music FREE Dance Lessons Raffles and Prizes 
Friday, February 26 7-11 p.m. Saint Mary's Haggar College Center (Sponsored by SAB) 
Spring Break Loan 

coach who taught me every­thing I know.~ 
After being recruited by a few small, local colleges, Tauben­heim received information from Wood. 
"I didn't have much hope for getting her," said Wood. "I just didn't get good vibes during her visit." 
But Wood's promise for playing time influenced Taubenheim greatly. She con­sidered going to the University of Wisconsin at Madison and trying out for their team as a walk on, but in the end, she knew that Saint Mary's would be the most advantageous. 
The 5'9" forward is the Belles' leading scorer, averag­ing about 18 points per game. 
"I always look for her on a 
general ineffectiveness. 
"Even though our passing broke down again, they couldn't capitalize on our mistakes," said Madden. "We set them up for a lot of spikes that they just didn't connect." 
The Irish were aided again by a developing bench, with rookies Tim Regan, Miguel Ascencio and Matt Limtiaco filling in the back row for the Irish. 
"They all did real well," said Madden. "Those games are good because we can get the freshmen some quality minutes." 
Indiana State forfeited to the Irish earlier in the week, pushing the Irish record to 12-2. Tonight, the Irish look for a big win as well as revenge against the Boilermakers in the Pit. If you're at the Bengal Bouts, stop over and support the Irish, who are 5-0 in home sellouts. 
fast break.~ said teammate 
Kristen Crowley. "We can count 
on her to finish it well almost 
every time.~ 
"Taubenheim plays well both offensively and defensively. She has a lot of confidence, which is .very unique to find in a freshman," said Crowley. "She is defmitely our most consistent 
player." · 
"Jennie is a silent leader, she speaks with her actions on the court." Wood said. 
Taubenheim has great expec­tations for her remaining three years at Saint Mary's. · 
"I love the coaches and play­ers at S~int Mary's. I know I made the right choice and I feel confident that the next three years will be great," she said. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Friday, March 19 Saturday, March 20 8:00p.m. 9:00p.m. 

A time of q11ict and personal reflection, the retreat will include opportunity for shared reflection on lhe biblical texts for the Sundays ofLent. 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and john Gerber, C.S.C. Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. RESERVATIONS ARE REQUESTED BY MARCH 5, BUT WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL MARCH 18. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, CS.C., Fischer Graduale Re-sidences 631-8606 or SharOn al Ftseher Community Cenler 631~. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 

server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Applicants should have Apple Macintosh and computer networking experience. Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Patrick Barth by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 3. Contact Patrick at 1-7471 for more information. 
... 

page 10 The Observer Wednesday, February 24, 1993 
Bennett 
continued from page 12 
and Bennett wants to do his part to make sure that holds up. 
"Hopefully, we'll win the championship, because that's how you really get noticed," he says, and for him that is the key to another chance at the big-time. 
"The CBA is definitely the best shot at the NBA. There's more money in Europe, but it's not scouted as well." 
Bennett has some company in adjusting to life away from Notre Dame. The other half of the "Texas Express." Daimon Sweet, is also going the CBA route. 
"So far I've played Daimon about three times," Bennett says. "When he's on the court and I'm on the bench. I want my team to do well, but I also want him to do well. It's kind of weird." 

With time off due to the injury, Bennett had time last week to attend his second Notre Dame game of the season, the loss against Marquette. 
"It's a big adjustment for ev­erybody after losing four seniors like we had last season (Bennett, Sweet, Denver Nugget LaPhonso Ellis and Keith Tower, who's currently playing for Columbus of the CBA)." says Bennett. "But they're trying hard." 
The return of senior Monty Williams to the line-up this year has inspired many "what-ifs" about the past two seasons among fans and Bennett isn't immune to them himself. 
"That's what everybody says, that with Monty (last year) we would have made the NCAA's, but who knows how far we would have gone," he says. 
"It's great for him to be back," adding that Williams "definitely 
has the talent to play in the NBA." 
Talking about Williams specif­ically, but also the NBA in general, Bennett thinks it isn't based solely on talent. 
"There are probably 10 all-stars in the NBA," he says, "then the talent level drops off. If you get the right shot, it could work out." 
After coming back from his hand injury and playing the rest of the season, Bennett plans to hook up with a professional summer league team in order to keep improving. He doesn't have any definite plans as to how long he is willing to try to make the NBA before he 
changes his career.
"Probably three years, but there's never anything sure," Bennett says. "Right now. I'm concentrating on the time at hand. As for life after basketball, I'll Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information cross that bridge when I come to Bennett had the best season of his college career last year it." under first-year coach John Macleod. 

Powlus' coach 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION a THEATRE PRESENTS THE BEST IN STUDENT FILM a VIDEO
turns down 
Finance Cub 
Holtz's offer 

T H E
Observer Staff Report 
The South Bend Tribune reported Tuesday that Notre 
Elections

5 T U D E N T Dame football coach Lou Holtz offered an assistant coaching position to Ron Powlus' high school coach 
F I L M 
George Curry. Powlus is the much-coveted 

s H 0 w 
Wednesday
quarterback recruit who chose Notre Dame over Miami, Pittsburgh and Penn 

s A T u R D A y 
10 a.m.-2 p.m.
State. He was USA Today, Parade and. SuperPrep 


F E B R U A R y 2 7
national high school player of the year. 

7 3 0 A N D 9 4
Curry confrrmed that Holtz had offered him the position, 

A T T H E s N T
but said he turned it down. 
Holtz denied that the offer was contingent on Powlus coming to Notre Dame. 
"If you know me, then it wouldn't come as a surprise 

u w 0 NIT B E L I
that I look to the high school ranks for assistant coaches," 

y 0 U R I I I I I
he told the Wilkes-Barre (Pa.) Sunday Independent. 


Come see World Champion Pool Player 
Nick Varner 
on Februarv 24th as he plays against Notre Dame's Campus Champion 
in the Ballroom at 8:00p.m. 
Admission is free and popcorn will be served! ! ! 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 
o/isit Cliicago by day, dine at a medieva{manor by niglit! Saturday, !feb. 27 


Tickets are STILL on sale at LaFortune Information Desk for $30. 


STIJDENT UNION BOARD 


Today 
Wednesday, February 24, 1993 page 11 



The Countdown Begins: Only 3 weeks until celebrating St. Patrick's Day at 
Ill ALUMNI 
!CLUB 
Must be 21 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
\T Wo\JLO 'a£
iO\i~ '5ro\LI~G 
A. GREt<.T 
A. GRHT 
S\lRI'RISE 
SURPRISE 
FOR ME \F
FoR \WC: 
'{OJ'I) j\)'::,\ G£1 It> WOR~ 
CV..S'S .' 
41 American 50 like 42 Down, lizard often 
42 Salts 51 BIVOUaC 44 Singer Sumac 54 Exactly 47lndian V.I.P. 55 Utah resort 48 Ugandan exile 56 An O'Neal 
49--noire 58 Rank below Cpl. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0113 
GARY LARSON 
"And so there I was--beached! I could hear voices all around me, but I couldn't go forward or back. And then it hit me: I could roll!" 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
ACROSS 
1 Granny or bowline 5 More timid 10 Karate blow 14lbsen heroine 15 Elizabethan dramatist 16 Gas: Comb. form 17 Lend I of tennis 18 Van Gogh painted here 19 Highway feature 20 Sharp flavor 21 Lopez theme 22 More antiquated 23 Samuel Pepys was one 
SPELUNKER 
You IDIOTS! I DIDN'T WANT 

1----u-------1 TO BE BROLIIJHT BACK fRoM 11-lf APr'ERLI Ff TI> Ttl IS CRU/11/l\ STRIP1 So, T'VE REV£R5W TilE t====::::::::::::-...._ POU\RITY ON TiiE RE INCA1?­
NA1DR MoDt-L. '1--7...000 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
CA.N I GO GET 
S0\'.\£1\-1\NG r.Ro\<\ t-11~ LaO\£R 7 
26 Offenbach's "La Belle--" 29 Marveled 34 Acknowledged 35 Mrs., in L1ma 36 Zorina or Miles 37 Artist Joan and novelist Gabriel 38 One--time 39 Exclude 40 Polynesian god 41 One, in Roma 42 Most tender 43 He does odd jobs 45 Emulates lzaak Walton 46 Kind of witness 48 Manila hemp 
52 October gem 53 Not in harmony 57 Big butte 58 Dallas suburb 59 In a proper way 60 Gossip unit 61 Brickkiln worker 62 This, to 37 
Across 63 Tide type 64 Torte and petit 
four 65 Musial or Laurel 
DOWN 

1 Make a cardigan 2Bossa-­(Brazilian dance) 1=--+---+-+-­3 Algerian port 
4 Boston Symphony's summer home 
5 Extended over 6 A king of Judea 

7 Site of Old 27 Musical set in· Faithful Argentina 8 Actress Duse 28 Actress in "Two 9 Legal thing Women" 10 Phone 
30 Florida 11 leader wetlands 31 Kick over the
12 Caen's river traces 

32 Delete .,.-+....+.=-+::-i 22 Calif.'s Fort-­
33 Pub game -.::-+:::-1-::+.--1 24 Wallet stutters 38 Turkey in Asia 25 Alfonso's queen 39 Lady from ___.,__.__._...J 26 Syrian city lisbon 
Sports 
page 12 Wednesday, February 24, 1993 
MIKE 


Montross manhandles Notre Dame 

SCRUDATO 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP) -Eric Montross scored nine of his 19 points in the first 5:49 of the second half and No. 3
Random Thoughts 
North Carolina overcame a lackluster 1------------------1 start to down cold-shooting Notre Dame 
Spring sports should build on last year's success 
Despite yesterday's frolicking in the 

snow. the spring sports season is 
rapidly approaching. Pitchers and 
catchers have reported to camp and 
Notre Dame's spring sports are ready 
to improve upon last year's success. 
The men's and women's tennis teams 

have already begun their seasons and 
are both nationally ranked. Both have 
had varied sucess against tough 
competition, but are still trying to 
overcome the early season losses of 
Andy Zurcher and Melissa Harris. 
However. the men should have a 
chance to try to return to the NCAA 
finals, and don't be surprised to see the 
women taking part in post-season 
competition as well. 
And the softball team has earned its 

first ever regional ranking. 
But, the two teams that should 

attract a lot of the attention, the 
baseball and lacrosse teams, have not 
even started their seasons. 
They have proved skeptics wrong, as the two teams have shown that they can be national powers despite playing in northern Indiana, where the baseball team plays on the road for the first month of the season and most natives have not even heard of lacrosse. 
Both squads are coming off trips to the NCAA tournament. The baseball team came up one game short of the College World Series, losing to Miami in the final game of the Atlantic Regional, and the lacrosse team bowed out to Johns Hopkins in the first round of the 
-tourney. 
However, both should have enough success to take some attention away from the spring football quarterback competition. 
The baseball team is ranked 14th in 

the nation, and the Irish are slated to 
begin their season with a trip to 
Arizona over spring break. 
I lead coach Pat Murphy, who turned down the prestigous Miami job over the summer, should keep the Irish nationally ranked throughout the season and could guide Notre Dame all the way to Omaha. 
Despite the loss of pitcher Pat Leahy to the Florida Marlins, the Irish still boast an impressive staff led by AI Walania. and the Notre Dame offense is led by captain Ed Hartwell. 
The lacrosse team begins their schedule this weekend and has a good shot at returning to the NCAAs. Ed Lamb and Handy Colley return to an Irish team that finished 10-5 last season. 
So, instead of being distracted by Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla battling for the quarterback spot, watch the Irish's spring sports make their run at the NCAAs. 
85-56 Tuesday night. 
The Tar Heels (23-3) won their sixth straight and avenged an 88-76 loss to the Fighting Irish last season at Madison Square Garden. 
Notre Dame (9-15), held scoreless for more 

than an eight-minute stretch in the sec­ond half. has lost 10 of 12 anrl is 0-7 against ranked teams. 
Montross, often triple-teamed in the low post, still was able to use his 270­pound frame to power for scores from close in. 
After North Carolina held a 13-point halftime lead, the 7-footer a 12-2 
---=====--=====--= 
130 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Eric Garcia v. Jason Kelly 

• 
Chris Irwin v. Rob Payne 

135 LB. DIVISION 

• 
Jeff Gerber v. Chris Johnson 

• 
David Hellen v. Pat Owens 


140 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Colin Hanley v. Rick Rogers 

• 
Mike Ahern v. Dan Schmidt 


145 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Lou Hall v. Chris Rosen 

•Kevin 
Mewborn v. Fred Sharkey 


150 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Joe Carrigan v. Carl Henry 

• 
Matt Marr v. Steve Clar 


155 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Brian Antonson v. Len Foley 

• 
Tim Norton v. Jamie Boyd 

160 LB. DIVISION 

• 
Jeff Goddard v. Mike Thompson 

• 
Dan Gutrich v. Kevin Mullaney 


165 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Brian Weiford v. Kevin Ryan 

• 
Jeff Horlbert v. Jamie Bailey 


175 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Kevin O'Rourk v. Rob Lalor 

• 
Matt Hughes v. Brendan Nelligan 


Bennett still hoping to make the big time 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
The job market for college graduates is getting tougher all the time, but no one knows that as well as 1992 grad Elmer Bennett. 
Bennett, the starting point guard for last year's NIT finalist Notre Dame bas-ketball team, currently is trying to work his way to the top of the basketball world -the NBA. 
He's now with Grand Rapids of the Continental Basketball Association, but is out of action for a few weeks after breaking a bone in his hand. 
"Up until the injury I was playing back­up point guard, and I was playing pretty well," Bennett says. 
It hasn't been an easy road for the Beaumont, Tex., native. After being drafted by the Atlanta Hawks in the second round, Bennett was the last player cut at the end of training camp. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:_ His position with the Hawks wasn't made any easier when Atlanta traded for point
INSIDE SPORTS 
guard Mookie Blaylock during training 
run to start the period, scoring on a Carolina closed the half with a 12-4 spurt layup, a hook shot in the lane, an ally­for a 40-27 lead. oop dunk and two free throws. 
NOTRE DAME (9-15) 

Notre Dame, which had only seven 
Taylor 2·6 1-2 5, Williams 8-21 4·4 20. Jon Ross 2-4 0­

turnovers in the first half, matched that 
0 4, Justice 1·4 0·0 3, Hoover 4-11 2·2 12. Boyer 0·2 0-0 total in the opening six minutes of the 0, Russell 1·1 2-4 4. Joe Ross 2-3 0·0 4, Ryan 0·0 1·2 1, Adamson 1·3 0-0 3, Keaney 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 21·55 10­
second period, helping North Carolina 
14 56.

push the lead to 70-33 with 6:40 left. Ryan Hoover's two free throws with NORTH CAROLINA (23-3) 
6:14 remaining broke Notre Dame's 8:12 Reese 3-7 5-6 11, Lynch 3-7 0-0 6. Montross 6·9 7·11 19, Williams 3·8 0·0 7. Phelps 1-3 4·8 6, Sullivan 3·6 1-1
scoring drought as the Tar Heels 
7, Rodl 1-2 0·0 2, Salvadori 3-6 2·2 8, Wenstrom 2-3 0·0

outscored Notre Dame 30-6 to start the 
4, Calabria 0-1 0·0 0, Cherry 2-4 2·3 6, Davis 1·3 0·2 2, second half. Geth 1-1 1·2 3, Stephenon 2-2 0-0 4, Landry 0·1 0·0 0. Totals 31-63 22-35 85.
Monty Williams led Notre Dame, which shot 34.6 percent in the second half, with 
Halftime-North Carolina 40, Notre Dame 27. 3-Polnt 20 points. goals-Notre Dame 4·16 (Hoover 2-8, Justice 1-1, Notre Dame stayed close early as the Adamson 1·2, Jon Ross 0-1, Boyer 0-1, Williams 0-3), North Carolina 1-11 (Williams 1·5, Reese 0-1. Phelps 0­
Tar Heels missed six of their first 12 free 
1, Sullivan 0·1, Rodl 0-1, Calabria 0·1, Davis 0·1).throws, but a 10-2 run over a 2 1/2-Fouled out-Joe Ross. Rebounds-Notre Dame 24 minute span gave North Carolina a 23-10 (Williams, Jon Ross 5), North Carolina 47 (Reese, Lynch 
8). Assists-Notre Dame 11 (Justice 3). North Carolina

lead midway through the first half. 
17 (Reese, Phelps 4). Total fouls-Notre Dame 24,

The Fighting Irish did pull within five 
North Carolina 18. A-21,572.

points five minutes later, but North 


Bengal Bouts enter semi-final round tonight 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The semifinals of the 63rd annual Bengal Bouts take place at the Joyce ACC lieldhouse tonight at 7:30. 
Quarterfinal bouts took place last Sunday, when 31 bouts were fought under the lights of the JACC Arena. The finals will be held Friday night in the Arena beginning at 8:00. 
Tonight's card is filled with 18 bouts, four lights from each weight class will be fought in the 130-pound to 175-pound divisions. The 130-pounders will light for the first time as the limited number of boxers did not allow a quarterfinal round. 
There were no surprises on Sunday's eard, all of the favorites survived. One small surprise was that all but three bouts lasted the full three rounds. Jeff Gerber (130-pounds), Lou Hall (145­pounds) and Jeff Goddard (160-pounds) were the only lighters to extinguish their opponents before the final bell rang. That trio separated themselves from the rest of the lighters, proving true the pre-bout hype that they were head and shoulders above the rest of the lighters. 
But the increase in full-length lights gives a good indication that the overall caliber of boxers is evenly matched. 
"I think that the longer bouts is a reflection of better technical boxing from all fighters," said Goddard, the 160­pound favorite. "This year there are less guys going out there and swinging wildly. There is a larger number of guys who are solid boxers." 
..e.t:t4l'"¥i"', Iff¥~~ . ' 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Elmer Bennett drives past Bobby Hurley in last year's game at Duke. Bennett now plays for Grand Rapids in the Continental Basketball Association. 
transition to being a true point guard. career best 11 rebounds in the NIT semi-He says running the team is his main final against Utah. He totalled a personal concern. "This is only my second year as high 13 assists in the quarter-final match 
•Powlus' 
coach rejects Holtz's offer see page 10 

•women's 
tennis awaits Wildcats see page 8 

•Ohio 
State stuns Indiana see page 8 


camp. a true point guard. The first was last versus Manhattan. 
"The initial shock of being cut for the year for Coach MacLeod." After four years at Notre Dame, first time is tough," he says. "It takes Bennett had quite a final year under Bennett left as the ninth-leading scorer time, but then you realize there are MacLeod, saving his best basketball for in school history and the all-time leader other people going through the same the end of the season after adjusting to a in games played. He also is second in thing you are." new position and style of play. career steals and third in assists. 
From Atlanta, his travels took him to He scored his career high in points But none of that matters in the pros, Rochester of the CBA, before he joined (39), minutes (43) and free throws made where the only concern is current Grand Rapids in early January. (12) in the final game of his collegiate ca-production. The team is in first place, 
He says that he needs to work on the reer, the NIT Championship against 
Virginia. In addition. he grabbed a see BENNETT/page 10 





