
Monday, September 13, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 11 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
PLO, Israel to sign mutual recognition accord 
By SALAH NASRA WI 
Associated Press 
TUNIS, Tunisia 

The PLO approved an agree­ment with Israel Friday on Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, and Jordan became upbeat about reaching its own peace agree­ment with the Jewish state. 
Friday's endorsement by the PLO's Executive Committee cemented the last block into place for a historic signing cer­emony in Washington today. 
President Clinton asked PLO chief Vasser Arafat to name a delegation to send to Washington for the signing, PLO Information Minister Vasser Abed-Rabbo announced after the 9-3 committee vote. 
In Jordan, an optimistic King Hussein told British TV on Friday that Jordan and Israel could move ahead on their own peace talks and agree on an agenda early next week. A se­nior U.S. official said in Washington an "agenda for peace" would be announced on Tuesday. 
Hussein said it would be "some time" before Jordan and Israel could hope to negotiate an overall treaty, but that they could agree on a process to resolve their problems "very, very soon." 
The pact between the Palestine Liberation Organization and the Jewish state gives limited self-rule first to the Gaza Strip and the town of Jericho in the West Bank. It foresees a permanent accord based on Israeli withdrawal from occupied lands. 
"Minor reservations" ex­

pressed at the PLO ruling 
board's meeting centered main-

By SARAH DORAN Assistant News Editor 
The PLO-Israeli agreement to be penned in a White House Ceremony today represents the biggest step taken in Mideast peace accords since Egyptian President Anwar el-Sadat trav­eled to Jerusalem in 1977, according to government pro­fessor Alan Dowty. 
Further, if the dual part agreement encompassing mu­tual recognition between the two parties and declaration of stages toward Palestinian self­rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho "works," it stands to represent the biggest break through in Mideast relations since the 1947 United Nations vote divid­ing Palestine into independent Arab-Jewish states, said Dowty. 
"I am excited and elated,"

The accord clears the way for the granting of limited self-rule for 
said philosophy and theology
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho. 
Health plan to cover all 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The White House blueprint for health reform promises af­fordable coverage for all while making every business from Wal-Mart and McDonald's to the corner grocer start kicking in for insurance. Workers will have to pay a share, too -as little as $60 a year or far more, depending on the coverage. 
It suggests a single worker would be able to buy an aver· age health policy for just $360 a year and a family policy for $840. The employer would pay four times that much. 
The plan dangles the prospect of big subsidies for small businesses and low-wage workers to buy health policies, and may let early retirees get health coverage at bargain rates at age 55 until they qual­ify for Medicare a decade later. 
The Associated Press ob­tained a copy of the 240-page draft swnmary Thursday night from congressional sources after the White House loosened its grip on the closely guarded document. 
It spells out how all employ­ers would have to help pay for workers' insurance. Most busi­nesses and consumers would choose from health plans of­fered hy new, non-profit al· liances in each state with the bargaining clout to force doc­tors and hospitals to restrain prices. 
People could not lose their health insurance if they moved or changed jobs or had a life­threatening ailment. No one could be denied coverage be­cause of his or her medical his­tory. 
Hillary Clinton said Friday the new system would force Americans to make "cost-con­scious, informed choices" about health plans. Individuals, not their employers, would make the choices from a selection including economical health maintenance organizations and costlier fee-for-service plans. 
The first lady told state legis­lators the White House was not set in stone on its approach, which President Clinton will pitch in a major address to Congress on Sept. 22. · 
Under the American Health Security Act, states would set up the regional alliances start· ing in 1995, with all required to come on board by 1997. Big corporations with more than 5,000 workers could remain outside the alliances. 
Analysis: Agreement a watershed step in Mideast 
ly on the economic aspects of the agreement, committee member Mohammed Zohdi Nashashibi said. He declined to elaborate. Palestinians are con­cerned they will not receive enough economic aid to make their fledgling government vi­able. 
Opponents also castigate the accord for failing to deal with crucial issues such as the status of Jerusalem, which Palestinians want as the capital of their would-be state, and the return of refugees. 
professor Father David Burrell. "The key to everything is mu­Friday's approval came one tual recognition, so whateverday after Israel and the PLO else is entailed I am reasonablyrecognized each other, clearing upbeat about the Mideast." 
away the biggest hurdle to sign­The accord is the result of the ing the self-rule accord. 

dominant fatigue factor which has shadowed recent talks, in"We are taking a real histori­addition to the existence of the cal risk," said Abed-Rabbo. 
extremist Islamic group
"We are not going to allow the Hamas, according to Burrell.

opportunity to give a chance for "Both Israel and the PLO rec­peace to slip away." 

ognized that if they could notHe discounted death threats 
get their act together, eachagainst Arafat from radical 
would have to negotiate with
Palestinian factions, saying, 

Hamas. Lack of negotiation on"we give no attention to such the part of Israel would drivethreats." 
the PLO into the arms of Hamas, where future negotia­tion would be even more diffi­cult," said Burrell. "We have Hamas to thank for the ac­cord." 
Future agreements between Israel and its Arab neighbors are now increasingly possible due to the Palestinian-Israeli accord, said Dowty. 
Perhaps first among upcom­ing agreements will be an Israeli-Jordanian accord, due to each country's past disagree­ments being centered around the lack of a Palestinian-Israeli accord, said Dowty. 
Also, a Syrian-Israeli agree­ment may be on the horizon if the two countries can settle their disputes on the Israeli oc­cupied Golan Heights, an area which Syria wants to regain control of, according to Dowty. 
For the United States, the agreement opens the door for much improved relations with other Arab countries whose past talks have been hurt by 
U.S. support of the Israeli plight, said Dowty. 
"This conflict has been a tremendous impediment to the U.S," said Dowty. "It will abso­lutely improve U.S. relations with other Arab countries in trying to attain a balance with other states, especially the oil producing states." 
Although President Clinton has promised to resume dia­logue with the PLO since its re­nouncement of terrorism and 
see ANALVSIS/ page 4 

Despite FCC ruling, loopholes exist 
BySUZ¥FRY News Writer 
Though the intent of the Sept. 1 Federal Communications Commission ruling regarding cable rate regulation is to lessen the price-gouging tactics cable companies employ, many loopholes still exist. 
The basis of the ruling states that local government has the power to regulate prices when sufficient competition does not exist in a certain area. Michiana is one such example, with TCI, Choice and AES Inc. serving as the only cable televi­sion outfitters in the area. Each offers distinctly different variations of cable services in­cluding wireless antennae, tra­ditional grounded cable and satellite. 
TCI executive Lesley White explained that the company will be lowering prices ori basic ca­ble packages an average of 71 cents as well as providing the once $5.10 additional outlets at no cost. However, the lost rev­enue will be re-acquired through the non-regulated pre­mium channels such as HBO, Showtime, Cinemax and The Disney Channel. 
According to Mishawaka 


Mayor Robert Beuter, TCI is the only true cable company in the area and in order for the com­pany to preform its duties under the new FCC ruling, the city of Mishawaka has granted a five year franchise to TCI. 
Under the terms of the agree­ment, TCI will pay approxi­mately three percent of their revenue to the city, an esti­mated $150,000 annually. If TCI improves their system by incorporating fiber-optics, the contract will be extended for another five years. 
However, the power of local government over this issue remains limited. In major ci­ties, there is no need for regu­lation because of competition, but in smaller communities, "it is rather the city and con-
The Regar 
sumers at the mercy of the ca­ble company," explains AES satellite dealer Mark Gabele. 
Beuter continues, "There are still too many gaps in the sys­tem for local government to effectively deal with the situa­tion while remaining within the confines of our jurisdiction." 
When Congress passed the law last fall, "the clear intent was to lower cable bills and put an end to skyrocketing rate hikes and other abuses," Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce telecommuni­cations subcommittee, told the FCC in a Jetter written Sept. 7. 
As expected, many of the na­tion's 11,000 cable companies 
see CABLE I page 4 
page 2 Monday, September 13, 1993 
The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 

Under the Tarnished Probe 
Notre Dame's football team and our country's scientists seem to have much in common these days. They can't seem to keep the pollsters happy. 
Every loss, controversy, and questionable win is challenged, belittled, and scrutinized. Every triumph won convincingly is rewarded with skepticism. 
While Notre Dame strug­gles up the AP poll, which is decided by several hun­dred writers, the fate of Eric RuethJing 


our science program in America is judged by the 

Photographer federal budget, and is cho­sen by our senators repre­sentatives and other bureaucrats. 
Like the AP poll, our senators and representa­tives have certain favorite sons which always rank up high in the budget. Some programs are never, or only slightly affected by budgetary cuts, despite our deficit. Some programs must struggle to hold on to what they have, and pray that better result from their work comes soon. 
Recently our space program has been on the backpedal due to the loss of the Mars probe "Mars Observer". Despite all attempts to revive it, NASA engineers and scientists expect the worst now, and there is more effort being spent of trying to pinpoint the failure for sure than the actual revivaVretrieval of the satellite. 
This is not the only loss of our space program in recent years, and we've had successes between the losses. However, each accomplish­ment is treated very lightly by the public and the government. On the other hand, each error, delay, malfunction, and explosion, is scrutinized and second guessed till the whole incident reaches almost sensationalistic heights. Even when small victories have been pulled out of the ·aws of defeat -the Venus probe Galieo for example-the failure of the mission seems to be more readily welcomed by the officials than the information returned. 
Galileo returned information about the geo­logical make-up of Venus, as well as about the weather, atmosphere, and greenhouse effect on Venus. It also provided us with a topographical map of the shrouded planet -one we'll never visit in person because of high temperatures and pressures. All of this occured when the public seemed more concerned about it's failure to fully extend a instruction-recieving antenna all the way, as well as various other problems. 
The Hubble Space Telescope, despite all of the bad press it has received over the years, has returned a wealth of information that is not attainable by our Earth-bound telescopes. Yet all you hear in the House of Represenatives is the failure of Hubble and Galieo. 
Our football team two days ago proved all the prognosticators and "experts" wrong with a vic­tory over Michigan. Chances are, however, that we'll remain down at the bottom of the top ten. Our space program, even if they pull off a mira­cle rescue/recovery, will most probably be on the budgetary ropes, and further hindered by budget cuts. 
The uiews express in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
Sarah Doran Whitney Sheets 
Michael O'Hara Kathie Young 
Spons 

Jason Kelly Accent 
George: Dohrmann Kenya Johnson 
Viewpoint 

Guy Loranger Graphics 
Lab Tech Brendan Regan 
Jake Peters 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ex""pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A."ocia1cd Prns. All n:production rights arc r=rvcd. 
Winfrey is richest entertainer 
NEW YORK 
In the film "Jurassic Park," a get-rich scheme featuring live dinosaurs spelled disaster. Real life may be a bit kinder. 
Two of the nation's richest entertainers this year owe their fortunes to the film's rampaging prehistoric beasts -Steven Spielberg, producer of the movie, and Michael Crichton, who wrote the novel. 
But this year's list of top 40 money makers from Forbes magazine, which considers two years worth of income to smooth out big earnings swings, shows that most wealthy entertainers make money from more modern phenome­na. 
Consider the top earner. Oprah Winfrey became the nation's richest entertainer by owning the show she hosts and produces, as well the Chicago studio where it's filmed. The Oprah Winfrey show generates over $170 million in revenue. Her total take in 1992 and 1993: $98 million. 
Spielberg was right behind her. He clinched the No. 2 spot by pulling in $72 million in the last two years, thanks in large part to "Jurassic Park" box office sales that could reach $600 million in 1993. With a video cas­sette release upcoming, Forbes says, Spielberg could top the list next year. 
Slipping to No. 3 with $66 million from last year's top spot was funnyman Bill Cosby, dragged down by his TV flop "You Bet Your Life," based on the Groucho Marx classic. 
Musicians soared to the top of the charts. Guns N' Roses rocked to No. 4 from last year's No. 10 with $53 million, pop singer Prince rose to fifth from 12th spot with $49 million and rock group U2 rose to No. 8 from No. 16 with $47 million. 
British guitarist Eric Clapton joined at No. 16 on the huge success of his career's best-selling album, Unplugged. His two-year total: $33 million. 
Crichton, a newcomer at No. 34, raked in $24 million over two years for the best-selling novel "Jurassic Park." 
Slug race promotes nature knowledge 
SPRINGFIELD, Va. 
When the dash to the finish line was over, it was a slug named Slippery that left the competition in the dust Saturday at the Tour de Slug race. 
Only hours earlier, Slippery had been snoozing happily under the drain pipe in Uncle Fred's back yard, said Anthony Arena, 8. 
Arena, a third-grader in Manassas, found Slippery and brought the slug to the race at Hidden Pond Nature Center to claim athletic glory. 
Slippery beat competitors such as Dopey, Spike, Sluggy and the misnamed Speedy, who failed to even get out of the starting gate. 
The race was the highlight of the Fairfax County nature center's third annual Slugfest, which included slug face­painting and a slime toss. 
The Slugfest is aimed at teaching young naturalists the role slugs and their cousins, snails, play in the food chain, said Mike McCaffrey, program director at the center. 
But some had no stomach for the slimy sprinters. 
Susan Burnett said her 7-year-old daughter, Sarah, "hasn't taken the grimace off her face since we got here and she realized what this was all about." 
INDIANA Weather 


Chili backers want 'official' declaration 
NEW YORK 
To aficionados of jalapenos, habaneros and other in­cendiary ingredients, the hottest bill in Congress isn't President Clinton's health care package -it's the Chili Bill. 
H.J. Res. 337, introduced in an effort to have chili named "America's Official Food," has been simmering on the government's back burner since it was concocted by former New Mexico congressman Manuel Lujan Jr. in the mid-1980s. 
On Monday, the International Chili Society renews its effort with a 23-city "Chili Across America" tour starting at the Capitol Building in Washington and led by a motor­ized stagecoach with a 300-pound copper chili pot on top. 
Why should chili be named America's official food? Why not hot dogs, hamburgers, or apple pie? 
Jim West, executive director of the ICS, has the answer. 
"Chili was created in America by Americans-initially, on cattle drives of the 1870s when chuckwagon cooks would make chili with beef and spices for the cowboys," West said. "Because there was no refrigeration, chili was one meal they could cook the daylights out of and it would still be healthy to eat. 
"Now you can find chili anywhere, from Caribou, Maine, to San Diego, from Bellingham, Washington, to Key West, Florida." 
The tour, sponsored by Hyundai Motor America, also will raise money for the American Red Cross, with ICS members pledging $10 for each of the 2,800 miles the stagecoach travels. 
NATIONAL Weather 


.............. 

cow WARM STATIONARY Q 1993 Accu·Westher. Inc. 
Pms8W8 
H L ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN 
v• ANocJarect Pres~ 
H L 
Atlanta 85 70 BaHimore 83 69 Boston 77 69 Cairo 93 68 Chicago 65 49 

ITI1 0 fZj §ll 1:) ~ ~ U 
T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW  ICE  SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
Cleveland 67 Columbus 7t Dallas 93 Jerusalem 82 London 63 Los Angeles 68 Madrid 81  58 60 65 63 52 66 57  Minneapolis 63 48 Moscow 50 32 New York 81 68 Paris 63 54 Philadelphia 82 70 Rome 77 68 Seattle 64 56  

--~--~------~-­
Monday, September 13, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
Five CNN employees are killed 
By REID MILLER rival clansmen that added a Associated Press bloody new element to worsen­ing violence in Mogadishu. MOGADISHU, Somalia It was some of the heaviest 
Five Somalis working for clan fighting in months and cli­Cable News Network were maxed a second day of attacks killed and four wounded Friday on U.N. peacekeepers. U.N. in a three-hour battle between officials said at least 27 mortar 
shells or rocket-propelled 

J..on..J Basketball  
Tournament  
What: Date: Time:  Double elimination 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament with 3 divisions Sunday, September 19, 1993 Registration 11 am to 12 pm. Play starts at 1 pm.  

Location: Stepan Center outdoor courts, Notre Dame Entry Fee On Site: $25 per team 
Hot Shot: $1 per entry 3-point Shootout $1 per entry Free Throw 
Competition $1 per entry Registration: T earn to Pick up rules, court assignments, time brackets -Play to start at 1 pm. 
Division: A-Cheryl Miller Division-Two or more players with competitive experience (i.e. high school or college)­Current high school players must reside within a 50 mile radius of South Bend 
B-Muffet McGraw Recreational Division-For fun, love of the game, competition in spirit 
C-Youth-Girls 14 and under-Some basketball experience included but not limited to park district, YWCA/YMCA, grade school, middle school 
Roster: Minimum of three, maximum of four, players For registration forms or questions please contact Sandy Botham, 631,5420 
grenades were fired at U.N. positions and that Pakistani soldiers were fired on again while clearing roadblocks. No 
U.N. casualties were reported. The fighting came a day after 
U.S. helicopter gunships blazed away with machine guns and rockets at Somalis who am­bushed Pakistani troops and American combat engineers clearing a road. Supporters of a fugitive warlord claimed at least 125 men, women and children died. 
At U.N. headquarters in New York, Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali ex­pressed regret Friday over the high death toll but said U.N. efforts to disarm Somalis would continue. 
Anyone Interested 
•
tn 


Field Hockey 
come to Loftus Monday through Thursday at 9 pm. 
Any questions call Christy at x2966 or Bonnie at 273-6591 

page 3 
En Espaiiol 

Originally planned for the grotto, the Spanish Mass held yesterday had to be moved to the Keenan-Stanford Chapel due to rain. The mass was held in memory of Cesar Chavez. 
It's purely delicious Culligane Drinking Water in a bottle. Call your local Culligan Man today. You can pay more, but you can't get better. 
Call 289-6371 to enjoy Culligan. bottled 
water delivered right to your door. 


options, we urge you to keep in mind  
that each CPA firm is different. It is  
important to find a firm that will give  
you what you want from your career.  
Crowe Chizek, the 12th largest CPA  
firm in the country, offers the chal­ 
lenges and opportunities usually found  
only in the larger firms. Our size,  
however, and our demand for bright,  
creative people mean that every  
professional has the potential to  
become a partner or principal.  
If you're looking for a firm where  
you have the opportunity to grow in a WE WILL BE ON THE CAMPUS 
dynamic, exciting and challenging environment... one that offers tradi- OF University of  
tiona! and non-traditional value to its clients, we look forward to showing  Notre Dame  
you how together we can build an  October 20, 1993  





To GRow 

exciting future. 

,.., 

C1993 CWJGAN MERNA'IlOIW. C~IWY Since Culligan d<olel> ... i.XpeudtJitl> ~. olfm end pa1idpotion IIIOy""'f. 
Happy Birthday 
Debra 
Go for the Pin! 
Love, Pat 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
IN NEED OF CASH ? 
Loan Fund 
. 
tnterest



Stop by O'Hara Lounge, LaFortune (next to info desk) 
11:30-12:30 Moo-Fri
CROWE CHIZEK 
Indiana: South Bend • Indianapolis • Elkhart • Merrillville Michigan: Grand Rapids Illinois: Oak Brook Ohio: Columbus 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
~ ---~----~-­
page 4 


Many questions face 
the return ofAristide 

The Observer • NEWS 

VIce the customer receives. The FCC has discovered that
Cable 
one effect the change has is that those customers, presum­
continued from page 1 
ably those from higher income brackets, who have previousare searching and have discov­cable set-ups and receive moreered ways to regain their lost services will get a price break,profits via complicated billing while those who can only afford combinations. One similarity the pared-down service will pay does seem to prevail through­more.
out the nation, however, cable Markey said he believes thatpricing policies have had little the FCC should have createdin common with the actual ser-
Monday, September 13, 1993 
formulas that give the compa­nies less "wiggle room." 
"This was something that was not expected," said Florence Setzer, an FCC economist. She insisted that the FCC would be improving upon their formulas. 
If there is a problem with ser­vices or the new prices, contact the city offices prior to Feb. 28, 1994. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 

By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

The new government took office with a mandate to heal Haiti's wounds. So far, it's been helpless in the face of brutal repression by its armed oppo­nents. including the assassina­tion of a major pro-democracy advocate. 
Even diplomats who have been publicly upbeat about the U.N.-brokered restoration of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide are now uncertain over the ability of his prime minister, Robert Malva!, to pre­pare the way for the elected leader. Under the U.N. plan, Aristide is to return here Oct. 30 after two years of exile. 
The main problem is the ris­ing terror and violence, much of it generated by plainclothes police auxiliaries, or "attach­es," U.N. envoy Dante Caputo said Sunday night. 
"The structure of the so­called attaches, who actually should be called killers, must disappear." Caputo told The Associated Press. 
But the president of Haiti's lower house says Malva! can't stop it. "Malval's authority is null," said Antoine Joseph, a key backer of Malval's candi­dacy. 
He said Malva! hasn't made enough efforts to reconcile with Haiti's notoriously repressive military, which strongly op­poses Aristide, and the presi­dent's political opponents. 
"If Malva! doesn't initiate a frank, reassuring dialogue with the real forces of this country ... within a week he will either have to resign or to call in for­eign troops," Joseph said. 
On Saturday, during a Mass commemorating the army­sponsored massacre five years ago of 11 pro-Aristide church­goers, gunmen grabbed Antoine Izmery, a prominent pro-Aristide businessman, dragged him outside Sacre Coeur church and shot him in the head. 
A priest at the Mass blamed the plainclothes police for the assassination. 
Saturday night, foreign police and soldiers escorted about 25 terrified Haitians out of the Sacre Coeur church grounds. They had remained inside, fearful of the Haitian police who took position outside the church after the assassination. 
Some of the 30 U.N. police and army observers, scheduled to leave over the weekend, will stay on indefinitely, a U.N. offi­cial said Sunday on condition of anonymity. The official didn't say whether it was because of Izmery's killing. 
Malval's government, in a communique Sunday, said the aim of the violence was "obvi­ously to destabilize" the U.N. peace plan, signed by Aristide and army commander Raoul Cedras. It provided for the installation of Malval's gov­ernment last month and Aristide's return to power in October. 
The communique said legal steps had been taken against the attackers and the army had been ordered to "disband and dismantle these armed bands." 
But Joseph said Malva! "has no effective control" of the military, which issued its own statement Saturday night say­ing it deplored Izmery's death. 
The "attaches" and many soldiers despise Aristide, a popular Roman Catholic priest, and have vowed to kill him if he returns. 
···························································­
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

•
•• Cfass Cruise on Lakg Michigan
• 
• %ursda!J, September 16th
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
Tickgts: $25.00 (inc{udes food and beverages)
• 
• 

Tickgtsgo on safe this !Jvfonda!J at the La:Fortune 
• 
information des~ 
••• • f})on't Miss Out! •• • • 
•.......................................................•..~ 

Analysis 
continued from page 1 
recognition of Israel's right to exist, the conflict resolution has come together without the help of the Clinton administration. said Burrell. 
"If the United States deserves any credit for the accord, the Bush administration is the wor­
Negotiations for the accord took place in 17 secret meet­ings in Norway and other European sites throughout the summer and key figures in­cluded Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, PLO Chairman Yasir Arafat, and Norwegian Foreign Minister Johan Jorgen Holst, who acted as the broker in the secret ne­goti ons. 
Student Government needs you to help make The Guide, a student course evaluation book, a reality. 
Join The Guide committee. It's a great way to get involved. 

There will be a meeting on Monday, Sept. 13th at 7:00pm in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor ofLaFortune. 
r----------~---~---"~---------­

[ ENTER N.OW! ] 
IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL MEN'S.IH SOCCER GRAD/FAC./STAFF'SOCCER 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT. 8 DEADLINE SEPT. 16 ENTER IN THE RecSp01ts OFFICE, JACC 

CAMPUS GOLF SCRAMBLE 
TO fiE PLAYED ON SEPT. 19 
DEADLINE SEPT. 15 ENTER AT THE <;OLF SHOP, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 

r-------lr-------Jr_______l 
:$1.00 Off :l $5.00 Offl : 20°/o Off : 
L_Mast~C~ J L~~erCuts_ J L_!JI~sterC~ J 
I  H ·r t II01 cu I I i I  p mer  11 AII HaircarelI I Regis, Nexxus. Paul Mitchell. II I Boolage &Va Voom 1  
With student 1.0.  1 1  With student LD.  1 1  With student 1.0.  1  
No double d1scounts  No double d1scounts  No double d1scounts  
,  reg 58.95  I I  I I  I  
•  I I  II  I  







MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Regrs Corporalaon 1992 
277-3770 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Viacom and Paramount to merge 
By SKIP WOLLENBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Viacom Inc., owner of the MTV cable network, agreed Sunday to buy film and publish­ing powerhouse Paramount Communications Inc. in an $8.2 billion merger that would cre­ate one of the world's biggest media-entertainment compa­nies. 
Paramount Viacom International Inc. would gener­ate more than $6 billion in an­nual revenue from such busi­nesses as cable and broadcast television, film production, book publishing, theme parks and sports teams. 
It would join the ranks of the world's largest media-enter­tainment conglomerates, a group led by Time Warner Inc., which had more than $13 bil­lion in revenue last year. 
"This merger is an ideal strategic match between two strong and comolementary 
companies with unlimited op­portunity," said Viacom's ma­jority owner, Sumner Redstone, who would be chairman of Paramount Viacom International. 
Under terms of the deal, the companies said Paramount shareholders would get about $69.14 a share in cash and stock for their holdings. 
The cash portion of the deal would amount to $9.10 a share, or a total of more than $1 bil­lion. Viacom would also give Paramount stockholders 0.1 share of its Class A stock and 
0.9 share of Class B stock for each Paramount share. 
The deal, a topic of wide speculation for more than a week, was unanimously ap­proved by both boards of direc­tors, the companies said in a statement. 
It was expected to be com­pleted by early 1994, subject to approval by shareholders and federal regulators. 
The pact would combine 
Viacom's huge capacity to dis­tribute programs over its cable TV networks and cable systems with Paramount's considerable experience as a major Hollywood film maker and TV program producer. 
In addition to MTV, Viacom owns the children's cable net­work Nickelodeon, the pay-TV channel Showtime and cable TV systems reaching 1.1 million people. 
Paramount owns Paramount Pictures, publisher Simon and Schuster, the New York Knicks basketball team and the New York Rangers hockey team. 
Redstone, who owns 76 per­cent of Viacom, will own 69.8 percent of the new company's voting stock and 38.5 percent of the combined voting and non­voting shares, the statement said. 
Martin Davis, chairman and chief executive of Paramount for the past decade, will be­come chief executive of the new company. 

Campus Bible Study All students are invited to take part in a Christian Bible Study directed by Rev. Al D' Alonzo. Join us from 7--8 p.m. in the Campus Ministry conference room in Badin Hall. Sessions will begin Tuesday, Sept. 14 and meet every Tuesday during the semester. Bring your Bible and bring a friend. 0MPUSFor more information, call631--5242. f\/llNISTRY  
IFliNANCJE CLUB FIRST MEETING Tuesday, Sept. 14 7:00pm 124 Hayes.-Healy All club members and interested students are welcome to come. Important information about Career Night and upcoming Club activities. Please bring $5 dues.  




VIEWPOINT 
...II'JII-----------------~---~~ 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Bwiness Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Mercdith McCullough Advenising Managcr ..................... Anne Heroman V"u:wpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ...•................ George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary' 1 Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insritution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Ediror, Phoro Editor, Sporrs Ediror, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns prescm the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough lettets is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Edimr-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNicwpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advrnising 631-6900/8840 Sporu 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 Ncws/Phom 631-5323 Office Manag<r 631-7471 
Monday, September 13,1993 


KURT MILLS ON THE OTHER HAND 
ND should react positively to criticism 
School has hardly started and the entire Notre Dame commu­nity-as well as the rest of South Bend-has come together to fight against a challenge from the outside. I am speak­ing, of course, of the book Under the Tarnished Dome. The authors claim that the Notre Dame football program is not the pure sports program that everybody here sees it as. This column is less about the specif­ic allegations in the book-hav­ing no direct knowledge of the program it is hard for me talk about that -than it is about the instinctive reaction to the book. 
To a person, everybody who has reacted on television or in the newspaper has recoiled with horror that the authors would say such a thing about Notre Dame. Students are aghast. The Administration has denied everything. Fans from all over say it is the work of those who hate Notre Dame (I will get to this persecution com­plex in a moment}. And, per­haps the most disgusting dis­play of instinctive defensive boosterism has been put forth by the Channel 16 news team. The report said that it was just one of those periodic attacks on Notre Dame, but of course it was not true. One would expect the media arm of Notre Dame to come to its defense, but this is just bad journalism. 
The arrogance of the reaction was astounding. Lou Holtz­AKA god-would never do such a thing. Notre Dame, being the perfect institution it is -and chartered by god -would never engage ln such reprehen­sible activities. "We are ND"­this phrase is supposed to say it 
DOONESBURY 
all. What it indicates is that Notre Dame fans take them­selves and their football heroes just a bit too seriously. When people get to the point where they are so blind to the possibil­ity of any potential faults ­whether real or not -I would say that perhaps they need to take a course in critical think­ing, since such analytical ability seems to be sorely lacking among football fans. 
I cannot attest to the truth or falsehood of the allegations, although it would seem reason­able that no big time sports program could be as lily-white as seems to be the perception here. 
Such programs, by their very nature, corrupt the educational mission of the university. Notre Dame may have a high gradua­tion rate for football players, but this does not say anything at all about the quality of the education received by those players and the amount of time put into classes. It is not what the university would like you to think. Further, it would seem reasonable that in order to compete with other schools which use steroids and engage in other unsavory activities ­such as the "Convicts" or the other negative appellations NO fans seem to make up in order to make themselves feel superi­or -Notre Dame might do some, although not all, of the things mentioned in the book, and to dismiss the possibility completely out of hand shows the blind and unthinking atti­tude espoused by many fans. (need I point out that "fan" is short for "fanatic"?}. 
Many at Notre Dame seem to have a persecution complex 
8/{)f)f.81/W, THIS 15 THE LAST 
I I?ION'T 5Ff3/V[) YeARS IN
5TJ?AW.' ITt; BAI? 8llJU6H 7HifT 
TH/3 CIVIL.f<J6H75 MOV/3­
7H& '37l.JJlNT5 AR/3 L./VING, 
MEWT TO PR£:51/?E OVER
tATING !WI? 5TlJIJYING 

~ON/I tu/INT
IN 137HNIC !3Na.AV&5­

YOU 70 A93CME3t/3 TH8
NOIA/ THEY WANT 
FRE5HM8N!I'M
stnJ.RATE· /JRJNK.JN6 
GIVIN6AMA­
I FOUNTAINS/ 
71?/GJt.ATION SP!ZOfl 
" 
/ 
~ 

about those who are not NO fans. They feel that everybody out there is gunning for Notre Dame or envies NO so much that they will do anything to undermine the pure Notre Dame image. I do not think that there is a nationwide conspira­cy to bring down the Irish. However, it is possible that some outside of the Gilded Dome -yes, there is a world outside -are sick and tired of the arrogance and meanspirit­edness of NO fans. One exam­ple of this arrogance at the highest level will suffice. Recently, a sports commentator on National Public Radio dis­cussed Father Hesburgh's tenure on the governing board for college sports, which he joined after stepping down as president of the university. Apparently, whenever a contro­versy arose, Hesburgh would just suggest that things be done the Notre Dame way, implying that it was morally superior. As one might imagine, such arro­gance did not sit well with the other members of the board. While some may be sick and tired of Notre Dame arrogance -or whining when students feel that ND is not ranked high enough -this does not mean there is an anti-Notre Dame conspiracy which is responsible for every critique of Notre Dame football. Perhaps rather than reacting instinctively en masse to defend a program of which they have no direct knowledge, people around here should at least be open to criti­cism which may or may not 
turn out to be valid. 

Kurt Mills is a doctoral candi­date in the Department of Government and International Studies. 
IAJ£3U,IAJ8 IXJ NOW.' I'M (j(}IN6 701?15MJW­7U7H&C1JL-7VRE a=­CAMPf.!:3 Sf:PARAT6M R/6HT lH&I!<. 

Dear Editor: 
Edward O'Connor suggests that "we have already given up Notre Dame's Catholic identity and have made a mission state­ment superfluous." I, too began sharing this belief partic­ularly when he pointed out that in the mission statement "there is no mention of faith in Jesus Christ, no resurrection." 
If everything done at Notre Dame is not for the expressed purpose of glorifying Jesus Christ then something has gone seriously wrong. Of course this does not take many of us by surprise. I felt we had "already given up Notre Dame's Catholic identity" when I was a fresh­man in 1970. The Scriptures and the lives and thoughts of the best Christian saints of the last two thousand years are unfortunately not what has been guiding Notre Dame most of the last 20 to 30 years at least. 
Father O'Connor fears that the secularization of Protestant universities that occurred in the 19th century has now al­ready occurred here at Notre Dame. 
Consider the stance or mis­sion statement of one of America's top Protestant universities when they first began. Harvard's original charter in 1636 said, "Let every student be plainly instructed & earnestly pressed to consider well, the main end of his life & studies is: to know God & Jesus Christ, which is eternal life, John 17:3. And therefore to lay Christ in the bottom as the only foundation of all sound know!­
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alumnus cautions against secularization of Notre Dame 
edge & learning." 
How can I explain this apos­tasy except by the Scriptures themselves? Here are a few from St. Paul: "Claiming to be wise, they became fools ... Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world . . . In the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom . . . That your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God." 
I feel there has been a radical abandonment from faith in God's wisdom to faith in man's wisdom here at Notre Dame. Take as an example man's faith in evolution as the means by which the human race has come into being. 
Evolution as it has usually been taught is now being ex­posed as a lie by the best scien­tists. Yet students in secular universities are still being in­doctrinated into the faith of evolution and its pantheistic philosophy. 
I'm afraid Notre Dame's un­written mission statement might rather read like this, "Let every student be plainly instructed and earnestly pressed to consider well, the main end of his life and studies here at Notre Dame is to get good grades so as to get a good job, which to have is earthly se­curity. And therefore to lay money in the bottom as the chief cornerstone for the twen­tieth century educated man." 
Peter Helland Class of 1978 South Bend 

Cff&CJ< I.O.'s Iff THt fXXJR. 
I [)()N7/A.VWT 
fJ/'IY 50PHO­MOR£5 5NeAK­!NG!N.' 


''I'm 
so fortunate 'cuz a lot of people work as hard as I do, but very few get to where I've gotten. It just blows you away." -Joey Lawrence, star of NBC sitcom Blossom 



ACCENT 
Monday, September 13, 1993 
page? 


What makes the Golden Dome shine 
Signor Luigi Gregori's murals high­light Columbus' journey to America. 
her aloft so that, without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that lovely Lady, raised high on a dome, a Golden Dome, men may look and find the answer." 
Measuring 139 feet in circumference, the dome is 206 feet high and is topped by a statue of our Lady ("Notre Dame" in Sorin's native French} that is 19 feet in height, weighting 4,400 pounds and cov­ered in gold leaf. By contrast, the 14­story Hesburgh Library is 210 feet high and the gold cross above Sacred Heart's steeple rises above all other man-made structures on the campus, 230 feet. 
The Columbian murals finished, Gregori set up his scaffolds in the rotun­da and began the painting of allegorical figures of the arts and sciences in the lofty dome. The artist mastered the tricky illusion of a flat painting on the curved sides of the dome by practicing his sketches on mixing bowls in the col­lege kitchen. Final proof of the artist's eye to detail was recounted by a priest who reported that Gregori, observing his work from the main floor after the scaffolding had been removed, was dis­
-
tressed because he had failed to com­plete the eyebrows on one of the figures. So, a perfectionist to the end, he attached his paint brush to the end of a long pole, and standing on an upper floor balustrade, completed the painting with a few brief strokes. 
Notre Dame's Main Building served as the core of campus activity in its early ­years. Many students lived on the upper floors on the two wings known in those days as Brownson Hall and Carroll Hall, attended classes or study halls on the floors below, and ate their meals, partic­ipated in recreation, visited sick friends in the infirmary, or attended to business matters on the ground floor. Classes are still held in the building today. 
. at a of 
.. strlpswere applied to a.dlle~ivel 
dome's shell, each strip was 
with cotton. 
statue.of Mary that rests atop· 
is 19 feet tall. weighs 4000 P01IDOISI 
made of cast iron. It was noliSte«l 
top of the dome in 1888; and 
to Notre Dame as a gift for 
reconstruction from stutaents 
· Academy (today Sa 

Special to the Observer 
Signor Luigi Gregori was an artist-in­residence at the Vatican when he was granted leave by Pius IX in 1874 to spend two years at the University of Notre Dame. This noted Italian artist, a portraitist of popes, had been asked by Notre Dame's founder, Reverend Edward Sorin, C.S.C., to paint Stations of the Cross and other adornments for the newly completed Basilica of the Sacred Heart on the campus. 
Caught up by the educational promise of the young university on the Indiana prairie, Gregori spent 17 years at Notre Dame teaching and painting. Robust in stature and nearing 60 years of age, he spent hours each day on scaffolds, meticulously translating the legends of the testaments into brightly hued paint­ings with his unique formula of mineral paint. Often he worked with a paint­brush in each hand in the gas-illuminat­ed church where daytime light shone through the stained glass windows handcrafted at a convent in LeMans, France. 
When an earlier six-story main build­ing was destroyed by fire on April 23, 1879, a volunteer group of clerics, stu­dents and laborers erected the present building, much as it appears today, in time for September classes. (The yellow bricks of this and other buildings on campus were made from marl of cam­pus lakes.) In its main hallway Gregori visualized the ideal location for a series of murals depicting the career of his fel­low Italian, Christopher Columbus. 
Gregori used friends on the Notre Dame faculty as his models for many of the murals, as he had done for the church decorations. In all but the deathbed mural, where Father Sorin was used as the model, he painted Columbus in the likeness of Reverend Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., who was to become Notre Dame's seventh president in 1883. 
The companion paintings of Columbus 
and Queen Isabella of Spain, his protec­
tress. in the vestibule are noteworthy 
because of the artist's superb knowledge 
of coloring. Requiring little more than 
cleaning and rare retouching, the 
Gregori murals have retained their bril­
liance although exposed to daily traffic 
and wide ranges in temperature and 
light for 100 years. 
The story of Columbus begins when he 
begs for bread for his son, Diego, at the 
Convent Of La Rabida in Spain. His the­
ories of a new route to the East Indies 
rejected by Spanish and Portuguese 
authorities, the navigator is ready to 
turn to France when Father Juan Perez 
of the convent hears his story and in­
tercedes with Queen Isabella who sells 
One can't help but notice it-whether 
1v .........,,lio off the Indiana Toll Road, flying majestic Michia.na. Regional Airport driving down the tree-lined sidewalks Notre Dame Avenue. Tarnished or t, it is the Golden Dome of the 
IAdlmtrus.tration Building, a nationwide 
'"v''""'''" of the University of Notre Dame. 
The Administration Building and dome that exists today were not the original structures on the site. From 1844 to her jewels to finance the expedition. 
Father Perez Blesses Columbus at the embarkation site of Palos on Aug. 3, 1492. Ahead of the Genoese mariner is a 70-day journey over uncharted seas, interrupted by the Mutiny At Sea when fearful members of his crew insisted that he turn back before food supplies are exhausted. 
Columbus calms his men and Discovery Of Land comes on October 
12. Models for Gregori in this mural are Arthur J. Stace, foreground, and Joseph Lyons, professor of poetry and drama at Notre Dame, while James F. Edwards, librarian. is shown in background. 
Taking Possession Of The New World 
shows Columbus as he plants the cross of Chrisitianity and the flags of Spain before the awed natives. They are called Indians because Columbus believes he has landed at the East Indies. On the opposite wall is the largest mural in the series, Return Of Columbus. which is 19 feet in width and, like the others, 11-1/2 feet in height. The U.S. Post Office chose this as a design for a commemorative stamp issued in conjunction with the Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1892. Observing this historic event is the artist himself, the man with the mus­tache behind the red drape at the far right, standing beside another Notre Dame faculty member, Rev. Stoffell. 
Bobadilla Betrays Columbus -One of 
1879, a with a less next to 
Then, April 23, 1 engulfed the . , . " 

Even though students began a bucket brigade from the lake Within minutes of the first sight of fire, the administration building and four buildings were totally· destroyed, smoke rising from the gutted the follow-the Spanish noblemen appointed by the throne to rule over territories in the new world, jealous of the esteem accorded to the famed navigator by the natives, accuses him of treachery and has him returned to Spain in chains during his fourth visit to America. The Spanish authorities dropped the charges and Columbus retired to monastery where Death At Valladolid came among friends on May 20, 1506, at the age of 
60. A priest-scientist at Notre Dame, Rev. Louis Neyron, who had served as a surgeon in Napoleon's army at Waterloo before his ordination, is pictured leaning on a cane at the foot of the bed. This is the only known likeness of him and was secretly sketched by Gregori at dinner one day when he learned of Neyron's lifetime refusal to be photographed or sit for a painting. 
The final likeness, the only ones to be painted on canvas and affixed to the wall, are of the Dominican friar, Diego de Deza, a friend of Columbus and professor at Salamanca, and Louis San­tangel, treasurer of the Court of Aragon, who contributed personal funds to sup­plement the queen's gift. 
Notre Dame's famous Golden Dome is the realization of a promise made to Sorin in 1844, two years after he found­ed the University at the site of a log chapel. "When this school, Our Lady's school, grows a bit more, I shall raise 

Monday, September 13, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 8 
Irish volleyball wins classic over Illinois 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writ~r 
Going into this weekend's Reebok Challenge in Chicago, the Notre Dame volleyball team was hoping to play competi­tively against some of the top ranked teams in the nation. 
Instead, they pulled ofT one of the most important victories in the program's history, knocking off No. 6 Illinois in a classic live-game match, 15-13, 8-15, 13-15, 15-6, 15-11. 
"There's no question that I'm very pleased with this week­end," said head coach Debbie Brown. "We've never beaten a top ten team before." 
The Irish did more than just win, as they dramatically came from behind to register a vic­tory that will definitely grab the national attention the program has been seeking. 
Against the Illini, the Irish came back from a 2-1 delicit to dominate both the fourth and fifth games, showing a killer instinct the team had previ­ously lacked. This instinct was sparked by junior outside hitter Christy Peters, who spiked 19 kills in the match. 
Along with Peters' heroics, the whole squad played solidly, as senior setter Janelle Karlan was rock steady in doling out 54 assists, and freshman out­side hitter Jenny Birkner con­tinued her error-free play with 
a .385 hitting percentage and 13 kills. 
"I was really happy with how the team displayed persever­ance and poise," commented Brown. "It would have been easy to give in when we were down 2-1, but we showed a lot of heart and character." 
Following the upset victory, the Irish continued their im­pressive play despite losing to number 1 Long Beach State 15­13, 15-8, 15-12. 
Peters again was spectacu­lar, notching an impressive 24 kills in only three games, lead­ing both squads and earning a place on the all-tourney team. 
Following the loss, Brown was optimistic. "We showed we can compete with the best team in the country, and that was our goal going in." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
omen's safety and self-defense. Classes begin Monday, September 13. Ten sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6:30·7:45 inRockne room 219. Class size limited and open to all students/faculty/staff and requires a $9 fee, 
Shorln-RYU Karate. Classes begin Monday, September 13 and run throughout the semester on Mondays and Wednesdays in Rockne 301 from 4:30-6 p.m. and requres a $15 fee. 
Anyone Interested In playing Club Hockey please contact Rob at 4-1950. Leave name, number and year. 
The Men's Volleyball Team will be holding tryouts on Sunday September 19 and Monday September 20 from 7-10 p.m. in the JACC Pit. Anyone interested in officiating tkag football, there will be a mandatory meeting tonight at 6 p.m. in the JACC auditorium. 
The Water Polo Club will have an informational meeting for all interested players at 8 p.m. tonight at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Intramural 3-on-3 basketball captains meeting will be tonight at 6 p.m. at Angela. 
The Observer ace<pts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. ro 3:30p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office. 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 r..m. ar 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classofieds musr be P"'Paid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. 
Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger,  PRIVATE ROOM IN HOME FOR  Need two oor three MSU GA's and  MSU 4 sale or trade lor USC.  Really Need 2 USC GA's for family  
NOTICES  IN, hiring lor: servers, bartenders. line cook. Exp. pref. but not nee. for  GRAD. STUDENT. COOKING PRIVILEGES, GARAGE & LAUN­ two Pitt GA's. Ask for Bill. 234-8293.  273-1807.  Paulx1556  
Info call272-7017  DRY. CALL 291-2258.  Need 1 Pitt GA. Call x2969 Lisa  Have a MSU. Who wants it?  PLEASE HELP. NEED MICH. ST.  
Experience the ultimate of all  CHRIS x1815.  G.A.'S. CALL 287-8090  
sports· SKYDIVING! Train with Great Lakes Skydivers In Sept. and  TRAVELFREEICANCUN, JAMAICA. FLORIDA, S. PADRE!  FOR SALE  Need Mich. St. & USC G.A.s call Mike x0600  I NEED MSU STUD TIXIII  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump  SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK  Mike x4·1103  NEED TWO GA'S FOR  
Course, with student ID. West  PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­ Senior Ticket Book lor sale. Call  NEED FSU & USC Gas or my  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­ SIONS/SERVICEI SUN SPLASH  232-2263 or 273-1035, leave name,  parents will DISOWN me  NEED PITT GA'S  MICHIGAN STATE  
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ TOURS 1-800-426-n10  ph#, & offer.  please help Kyle 288-5282  )(232·3807  
ated. One hour North of South  CALL JOSE AT 634-2173  
Bend. (616)628-4892  GREEKSICLUBSISTUDENT  WORD PROCESSOR PANASONIC  I NEED 1 TICKET FOR MSU.  
GROUPS! Raise as Much as You  W-1510. $250 EXCELLENT CON­ $ Feverish Alumni in need of 4GAs  CALL CHRIS AT 4323.  
Typing  Want In One Weeki  DITION  lor USC. Call Tommaso X1480 $  
287-4082  $100...$600 ... $15001 Market  289-2537  MSU GAs WANTED! AMY x4813  NEED GIRL'S STUD. TICKET  
Applications lor Citibank VISA, MCI,  NEED 2 USC TICKETS  FOR MICHIGAN STATE  
SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call lor your  FOR SALE: 19"TV, 13" TV $100ea.  CALL JULIE AT 284-5511  CALL JEREMY AT 4-1138  
GERTH seeks BASS PLA YEA and  FREET-SHIRT and to qualify for  o.b.o.; cube fridge $75 o.b.o. All in  NEED MSU + FSU GA'S  
VOCALIST to complete campus  FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING  great cond. 232-7674  TOM @ 271·2908  NEED MSU GA'S  
band. HAVE GIGS all we need is  BREAK '94. CALL 1-800-932-0528,  I NEED 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE  ANGIE 273·5805  
you. Call DAVE 1081  EXT. 65.  ALARM SYSTEMS: CAR. HOME  CALL MIKE AT 634-1862.  I NEED 3 GAS & 1 STUD  
AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR  FOR PITT CALL 4248  
TOASTMASTERS  NEEDED 3 PITT TIX  INFORMATION CALL JASON@  HELPII NEE!:> USC AND FSU  I need 6 Mich-State GAsll  
INTERNATIONAL KICK-OFF  X2558 TARA  237-9702.  TIX. CALL KEV. X1689  Paul 273-5972  
Wed. Sept. 15 at 7 pm  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR  
Haggar Parlor • SMC  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  NEED 2 OR 3 MSU TICKETS.  ND • MICH. ST. GA TIX. CALL  
Come join usllll  Make money teaching basic conver­ CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  WILL BUY OR WILL TRADE 2 PITT  JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M.  IHEYI  
sational English abroad. Japan.  TICKETS. (412)741-4059.  $Need 2 stud. tix-any game$  
Taiwan. and S.Korea. Make up to  '89 TOYOTA Corolla DX Wagon.  ALUM WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO  $Katie 273-6324$  
••ATTENTION: There will be NO  $2000-$4000+ per month. Many  Excellent condition. 5 speed.  $$ I NEED 2 USC Ga's will pay  OR FOUR TICKETS TO ANY OR  
off-campus women's flag football  provide room & board + other bene­ power steering & brakes, A/C, FM  good money. call Eric x1n7 $$  ALL OF THE FOLLOWING HOME  HELP I  
team. Off-campus women can play  fits. No previous training or teaching  cassette, roof rack. 78k mi. $6400.  GAMES: PITTSBURGH, USC,  $$$Need 4 Pitt GA'sll  
on their previous dorm team. ••  certificate required. For more infor·  Call (219) 2n-4422.  NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL  FLORIDA STATE. BOSTON COL­ call Katie 273-6324$$$  
ILOST & FOUND I  mation call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584  TICKETS  HOME ND GAMES CALL AARON X1868  LEGE. CALL BILL HOGAN (OFFICE) 217·782·6995 (ANS. MACHINE) 217-698-9267  WANTEDIIIIIIIII!III  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries.  Profanely Wealthy Notre Dame  3· 4 G. A.'s  
LOST: A GOLDEN DOME CHARM  Earn up to $2000-$4000+  I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  Fanatic Needs 2 Pitt GAs.  
FROM A NECKLACE-VERY  TIXS.272-6306  Call Pat at x1550  WANTED: 2-4 TICKETS FSU/ND  u.s.c.  
IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF  1-800-524-5999  october 23 (fall break)  
FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777.  BRUNO'S PIZZA needs PT  
Hostesses and Drivers (lor Campus  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  I need 2 MSU tix! Lisa x 2569  call:  
Lost: Silver colored Seiko man's  Deliveries) Call John at 288·3320.  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  Will trade MSU(8) and BC(6) tix for  2725  
watch at NW f-ball game. Engraved  JANE AT 1-800·264·3278.  I'm sorta rich and very desperate.  Southern Cal. Call631-6305 or  
on back: Love, Helen 2-23-88. Great Sent. value. Call John collect  SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREEIII  NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR  Need Mich St. tixl Call Darren at 287·8090  291-4240.  PERSONAL  
@ 312-587-1768  Student Travel Services is now hir­ EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR  U need money, I need tix(stud or  
ing campus reps. Call @800-648­ 11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT  GA) for USC,FSU,&BC. Let's do  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
LOST: silver cross on leather  4849.  1 800 543 0357  For sale/trade  business I David 4-3830  
choker, great sentimental value,  1 MSU stud. tic  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
if found please call x4906  Calling all WOMEN (students, facul­ Need tix. for any  4 sale -2 Purdue GA's  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
ty, staff) I Do you have something to  NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641  other games  Call Eric x1461  233·4767  
LOST-OPAL PENDANT  say? Do you express yourself  KEVIN  Tom J. x40559  
PLEASE PLEASE CALL 4248  through poetry, music, testimony. or  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU!$  Happy Birthday. Chris. May God ful­ 
duck calling? You are needed for  NEED G.A.'S -3 PITT, 4 USC, 4  Tickets wanted-4·USC or Pitt game.  X4355  fill your dreams. I'm proud to call  
an NO Women Speak Out night on  FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe @ 1613.  Call M. McCarthy 215-471-6241  you friend!  
Lost a disk-case with four 3·1/2 in.  Monday. September 20. Please call  
disks. on 9/6 (Mon). between  Katie at 634-2728 or Linda at 232­ Will give first-born son for four USC  FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUD.  NEED 3 GA'S FOR MSU.  
DeBartolo and the Golden Dome  2739 to sign up. Don't worry, there  tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob  BOOKLETS. CALL LAURA AT  JAY X1534  Au Paul Schoaps knows how to  
(prob'ly in 331 DeBartolo). The  are no auditions!  at 273-0620.  2n8598.  work it girl.  
disks are labeled "me," "myself,"  
- "i." and "fonts. • Very important to me. please help! Call287·7696  1 or 2 roomates lor furnished home.  WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX  Stud Tixbook 4 sale,call Tom@254­ DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO  HAPPY BELATED B-DAY TO THE  
if you've found them.  Nice, clean ... 259·0219  (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN  9068 or lv Msg.  PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$.  GREAT ONE ...  
708-843-6947.  CALL ALISA@ 4-1302.  The Great Bretski  

 My parents are coming out for the  Who turned 22 on Fri.!l!lll  
L...--_w._'A_N_T_E_o_---.~1  I.___F_o_R_RE_N_T_ __.  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. 272-7233.  FSU game and they need GA's I will trade parent's weekend GA's and cash. I really need these! call Mike  Desperately need 3 MSU tix. Call 273·3920.  Hope it was a great day you Polish StudI! Stolatllll  
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  at2061.  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS,  277·1659.  HELP! NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  
Experienced Student Painters need·  WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO.  SWM, 19, despratley seeks 2 GA's  634-4263 MOLLY  You Say it (was) your Birthday ...  
ed to paint South Bend area homes.  PER PERSON.  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ for the B.C. game. II you can help,  Hey Hulkster Happy 21st B-dayl  
Full or Part Time.  2 BEDROOM, $295 MO.  ETS! 2 GAs for Mich. State, FSU,  please call Ken at x4245.  $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK·  Sorry it's late but better late than ...  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  1 BEDROOM, $225 MO.  and BC call: A. Raczkowski  ETS FOR PITT. FLORIDA STATE  RRRRRemRRRRemRRRember  
1·800-626-6267.  ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­ (800)442·2190 x7296. '91 alums  Need MSU GA's  AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT  when ... yeahl  
"painting America's homes coast to  PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE.  with jobs -will pay big $$$!  x4519  273·6588.  
coasr  272-6306.  
NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN  Need 2 Ga's lor Pitt game. Please  BUY MY st tic booklet  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  WEEKENDS • RIVERFRONT NEW  STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074  Call Will x3080  A.J. x1432  Cary is soooooo very ...  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101.  LEGALIIIIII  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill  Have 2 Pitt GA's. Will trade lor BC  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  219-291-7153  (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo  or FSU. Alan x1933  TICKET BOOKLET  What are YOU doing for fall  
JAMAICA. PANAMA CITY! 1-800­ 232 4827  break?Consider the WASHINGTON  
678·63861  Have GA's to all Home Games &  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SEMINAR in D.C. with the  
GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  Mich. Call232·7316 from 7-8 p.m.  Wanted: 1 Pitt GA  Need 1 Mich. St. ticket  CSC.Information night: Tues. Sept.  
Roomate needed at Turtle Creek.  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ call x-3265  for my dying sister  14  
Glna4·2372  DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT.  PLEASE HELP  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  call x1572  7:00-7:30 p.m.  
$210,$235. EAST RACE AREA.  I need 1 student ticket for MSU  at the esc  
WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE  JOB. BIKE, BUS. 232-8444.  game. Please call Todd at X3661.  I HAVE 4 GAs FOR  or pick up an application at the  
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO  Alumni needs 2 GA tix 4 Mich St,  Pitt and BC  CSC. Don't miss itlll  
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­ WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP  Pitt, & Fla St. Will pay top $$. Call  Call and make an offer...  
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED  HOME·BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  TICKET TO SAN FRAN.  Susan at X1285.  Jeff@ 1597  
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN  NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA  To the women of Notre Dame:  
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE  271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  TIXII! MIKE at X1573  NEEDED: 2 Pitt G.A.'s  DAN FAGAN is a free man  
10AM·6PM MON·FRI  MACHINE.  Call ELISSA x4982  

• 

page 9 Monday, September 13, 1993 1
The Observer • SPORTS I I

Butler stuns men's soccer to open conference season I : 
I 
The Bulldogs displayed flawless execution, tallying 23 shots on goal compared to only 15 for Notre Dame, including a 15-6 advantage in the first half. Defensively, Bulldog goalie John Cone recorded three saves, stifling some Irish op­portunities. 
"We have to play these one game at a time and not look past anyone," said Berticelli. "Butler played really well. They deserved to win." 
The Irish will go on the road to play Detroit Mercy Tuesday afternoon, a team ranked only sixth in the conference but one that holds a 3-0 record. 
"Detroit is always a feisty team. They've played us tough in the past," Berticelli said. 

-
) ..., 

mens cross 
Free Willy (PG) 1:45 4:15 6:45 9:00 12:45 ~~ ~~1~e}:Wl 10:00 2~~~n;l:~·J~~ 
The Secret Garden (G) 
12:30 2:30 4:45 6:45 8:45 
Sleepless In Seattle (PG) 
12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 
True Romance (R) 
2:15 5:00 7:30 10:00 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports W rirer 
Just over a week ago, the Notre Dame men's soccer team was riding high following a 4-1 trouncing of 20th-ranked Rutgers and a tournament vic­tory at the Indiana MetLife Classic. 
With this momentum and confidence, a victory in their home opener against Butler University seemed automatic. 
Unfortunately, someone for­got to tell this to Butler. 
"When you play for Notre Dame, you have to realize that every team you play makes this game the biggest of their sea­son," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli, who watched his team stage a comeback at the end of the first half to tie the game, only to fall short in the second half in route to a 4-2 loss. 
The powerful Bulldogs 
SURPRISE! 
Happy 19th to a goofy Seana Z! 

We love you! 
Love, Mud, Scoe, Gill, Jenzie, M,n,M, Courtney, Fogie & Tasha 

General Information Meeting Thursday, September 6 7:00PM at the C.S.C. 
Questions? calll-9013 
shocked the Irish with two goals midway through the first half. Butler's first goal came at the 26:32 mark, when mid­fielder Casey Sweeney took a pass from Paul Barton on the left side and drilled an eight yard shot past Notre Dame goalie Bert Bader. Shortly after, at the 30:50 mark, mid­fielder Justin Dunckel scored from the 15 yard line unas­sisted to put the Bulldogs up 2­0. 
The Irish roared back, how­ever, scoring twice before half­time to even up the score. Junior Tim Oates, last week's tournament MVP, started the comeback at the 36:23 mark, scoring off of a flick pass from sophomore Bill Lanza. Lanza ended the half on a high note, scoring with :25 left on the clock off of a Chris Mathis pass to tie the game 2-2. 
The Bulldogs responded 43 seconds into the second half to retake the lead, when Barton capitalized on an Irish mistake, scoring from the left hand side. Forward Steve Weiger closed out the scoring at the 25:46 mark in the second half with a breakaway goal to put the game out of reach. 
"Soccer is a game of chances," continued Berticelli. "We're going to have to turn these early season mistakes into positives later in· the sea­son." 
Butler was ranked third in the preseason Midwestern Collegiate Conference poll, be­hind the second-ranked Irish. 
AS YOU WISH IMPORTS 
Many new hand crafted accessories, clothing and jewelry from: 
* Nepal * Mexico * Peru * * India * Guatemala * 
Almost Wholesale Prices! 
LaFortune -Sorin Room September I 3 • I 8 (Sat.) 10:30 am-5 pm 
~ ·~. SPONSORED BY ~G· 
j.U\ ~~· ~.::::> == ~ ·~ 
~ ~ ~ 
. 
Interested in representing Notre Dame at your high school during Fall or Christmas Break? Join the Undergraduate Schools Committee at one of the following organizational meetings: 
Monday, September 13 Tuesday, September 14 Wednesday, September 15 
All meetings begin at 7 pm, and are held in Hayes--Healy Auditorium (room 122) New members need to attend one session. Returning members need only to stop by one meeting to receive current information. Any questions? Call Jennifer Carrier at 631,7505 or Luke Woods at 634,3333. 

-------~---­
···~--~···-···

................................ --.. Monday, September 13, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 10 








TRUMAN 
REMINGTON COURT 
SCHOLARSHIP 
Information Meeting 
Nobody Compares with Sexton
for JUNIORS interested in Public Service 
Monday, September 13, 1993 

Ideal for Single Living! 
4:30-5:30 pm 1 01 DeBartolo 
9-Month Leases 

Donn Single Living Living 
0 l:l Your own kitchen 0 13' Your own microwave
w A N T E D 
0 8 Your own refrigerator 0 ~ Your own bedroom
ACTORS, ACTRESSES, PERFORMERS 
0 Q Your own private bath 
FOR MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTIONS 
~~~ 0 Q Your own washer/dryer Film production students at Notre Dame need 
0 Q Your own large closets performers of all types for roles in student films. 
0 (J Your own lake view 
~ 

0 G) Your own phoneBesides theatre students, we are particularly interested 0 Cl Your own alarm system 
in people who are younger or older than college age (including children) from all communities. 
0 0 Your own study{fV room 
0 8 Your own heater/air conditioner Please send ASAP: 
•To..Your.. Door Parking 
-a photograph ( 8XIO glossy, snapshot, or polaroid) 
•Club House For Football Parties 
-an information page listing age, special skills, 
•Pool & Jacuzzi 
hobbies, foreign languages, prior experience, if any, 
•To..Your.. Door Mail Delivery 
plus address and phone numbers (home and work) to: 
Professor Jill Godmilow 
And So Much More!
Department of Communication & Theatre University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Call 255.. 7777 Today! 

McCarthy leads Irish past No. 16 Badgers 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Paced by two goals from sophomore attacker Michelle McCarthy, the Notre Dame women's soccer team rolled over the 16th ranked Wisconsin-Madison Badgers Friday night, 3-1. 
McCarthy, who struggled and saw less than average playing time in the last Irish contest against Butler, notched her team-leading fourth and fifth goals of the season to lead the unbeaten Irish in their first vic­tory over a top-20 opponent this season. 
"Michelle McCarthy had a great game," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "It's great to see her back at the level oflast year." 
The victory extended the squad's winning streak, which dates back to last October, to eight games. 
"I felt at times we played very well," said Petrucelli. "The dif­ference was that we finished our chances." 
Although outshot by the Badgers 14-10, the Irish man­aged to convert on three of eight shots on goal. Freshman goalkeeper Jen Renola saved seven Wisconsin shots on the night. 
With only 4:44 expired in the first half, McCarthy knocked home the first goal of the evening from just outside the goal line with Alison Lester and Cindy Daws assisting. 
The score was frozen at 1-0 until nearly ten minutes into the second half when McCarthy netted her second with Daws and Ragen Coyne assisting. 
Junior midfielder Jodi Hartwig capped the Irish scor­ing six minutes later and gave the Irish a comfortable 3-0 lead. Lester and Tiffany Thompson were credited with the assists. 
Hartwig, who scored two goals in the 4-0 victory against Butler, is a nominee for Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player of the Week. 
Susie Holt scored the lone Badger goal with Cary Walch assisting. It was the first goal allowed by Renola in her two and a half games played for the Irish. 
One problem the Irish must overcome before Sunday's match-up with fifth ranked William & Mary is their ten-, 
Happy 21st Birthday Jill B. 
from 

Mom, Dad, and Brian 
P.S. Feel free to call and leave best wishes at 634A912. 
dency to play in spurts of in­tensity. 
"I think we can play better," said Petrucelli, "but in order to beat a team like Wisconsin you have to play well." 
In addition to its potent of­fensive attack (19 goals through three games this season) the squad has been able to rely on stellar play from its not often mentioned defensive corps. 
Anchored by senior Andi Kurek and sophomores Julie Vogel and Ashley Scharff, the backfield has allowed only one goal through three games this season. 
The Irish hope to continue their winning streak Tuesday night when they face Indiana. 


Anyone who hasn't received a 
DISCOUNT 






CARD, 

more cards are available at the 

Student Government Office 2nd Floor LaFortune. 



~--~----~---~-­

TODAY 
Monday, September 13, 1993 page 11 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
IS IS C. US AND G,VS'5 ZOI>ISIE (,US'S SOVL WAS 5ffl1RAT£D 
Rf.UN ITINC. fROM HIS BODY WI-lEN HE WAS 

MA'i ReQUIRE St!OT (+ FE:'w SE.MESTERS A~O. 
TRAUMA 11-lE: SPELUNKER E.AN&i BUIL-T THE RE INCA~NATOR '1.-'LOOO 
TO YANK HIS SOUL OUT OF 11-lE: APTERLift AND STiCK IT INTO ft ROB'JT f:J)DY. 
0
0 
0 

BILL WATIERSON
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
sa? '(()\l 5\10\JL\)
W\l!I.T A. 01\'i. I ~Et.L L\Kt: 1\JE BEEN R\l~ 
AL'NA.'iS SA_'-IE. \1i\l£RBG\..t: UNI\L
0\JER 8"( A TRI\IN. 
io\l RD>-LLi KEEO 1\. 

CROSSWORD 
OF INTEREST 
ACROSS 30 Lupine biped? 55 Breakfast combo
33 Ripen1 Plaster of­57 Bare

36 Baron Verulam 58 Algerian

6 Stiffly neat 39 Suffix with ethyl 10 Role seaport
14Zinc--40 Region 
59 They may have surrounding15 Hebrides isle feet of clayAthens16 On the briny 60 Paradise41 Major role 11 Blind purchase 61 Writes42Samoan19 Row 62 He's too fond seaport20 Curve to test a 43 Friars'driver's nerve frivolities? 
DOWN 45 Savory jelly 

21 Satisfies 
22 Top officers 1 Adrian or Pius47 Ratite birds 23 Nugatory 
2 W.W. II losers 24 Exact copy 
49 Quoted 

30utfits 25 Rio Grande city 50 Mardi Gras 
4Aminfeature28 Old cap made 

5 Felt 

of net 51 Chit 6 Small songbird 
29 Milky gem 54 First of all of us 
7 Anglo-Indian bread 8 Signs 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 West or Murray 10 Kind of wagon 11 Native of Tibet, 
e.g. 12 Pee Wee of 28 Stylish 45 Gave succor 50 Bus fee baseball 31 Square column 46 Gaze fixedly 51 "--Rhythm" ... 13 Sailors 32 Phys. or chem. 52 Leer's cousin 
47 Mischa, the 
18 Type of firearm 33 Top pilots 53 Former world 
violinist 22 Laudatory ad 34 Fall guy pwr.
48 Suffers audibly 
55 Bell follower 

23 Riches 35 Pass receivers 
49 "-the dawn" 56 Tokyo of yore 
-:-+:-+-o+=-i 24 Relating to 37 Speedy Julius or 
38 Oh, woe! 


DINING HALL
Augustus 42Tarzan 

Get answers to any three clues
25 Be an also-ran imitators? 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
26Neatas­
44 Performed in 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
27 Highly unusual excess 


T~b>·u::ry·s·:d,:·ifjl,J s::··:~ot=··~;m(r=hi··:er=··< }: ()/···,
,;.::::......::.':.:.::.....:::·.:~: .....::.....:.. ::': ....::.l:·::.~..ry(...l ......... ::::::!..~.:!:::t.....::...:.~'....:.':.. :.~·..:::·....:::./..:....~~...:.:·.............::.':.......::..~~ 
Student Union Board 
Recruiting Meeting 
Acoustic Cafe 
7:00pm 9:00pm-12:00pm Debartolo Room 101 The Huddle 
STIJDENT UNION BOARD 

------------------------------___....--~---------­





SPORTS 

... 


see page 8 
see page 10 



DEFENSE SHINES 
• Bobby Taylor and the Irish defense pressure Michigan into a loss 
story page 4 

Notre Dame wakes up the echoes 
Irish nearly flawless in classic upset 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
It was at best the greatest upset during the Lou Holtz era. At worst, the win that hurled Notre Dame back into the national championship picture. 
Notre Dame's 27-23 win over Michigan Saturday in front of an NCAA record 106, 851 fans will find itself scripted in the pages of any book detailing great wins by the Irish and probably somewhere in the first chapter. 
The Irish came out inspired, playing flawless on both sides of the ball during the first half. The defensive success was expected to some point, but the offense output was a shocker, considering the Irish had trouble moving the ball on a not-so-Michigan-like defense a week ago against Northwestern. 
"We wanted to respond in our way to help Coach (Lou) Holtz, " said safety Jeff Burris who two years after giving up "The Catch" to Desmond Howard, vindi­cated himself with two interceptions. 
see UPSET I page 2 
4. Notre 1267 11 5. 1260 8 6. 1240 6 7. 1172 10 8. 1132 9 9. 1063 7 10. Michigan 970 3 
11. Ohio State 
902 16 12. 
876 17 
13. North 
829 14 14. Penn State 2-0-0 752 15 15. Arizona 2-0-0 701 13 16. Texas A&M 1-1-0 560 5 17. North Carolina St. 2-0-o 545 18 18. Washington 1-1-0 532 12 19. Brigham Young 2-0-0 406 20 20. Stanford 1-1-0 237 23 
21. California;v ;z,o~o; 185 22. Boston College ~1~0' 179 25 23. Arizona State ·1-0-Q 158 24. Wisconsin 2-o~o 138 25. Virgini.a 2:.o~o : 98 
Others receiving votes: Arkan§as 88, Louisville 84, Michigan State 46, South Carolina 46, Iowa 45, Auburn 38, Georgia Tech 29, Virginia 29, West Virginia 22, Baylor 21, Southern Cal18, Missouri 16, Fresno State 12, Clemson 9, Indiana 9, Mississippi 8, Kentucky 7, Vanderbilt 7, Georgia 4, Hawaii 4. Memphis State 3, San 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Diego State 3, Texas 3, 3 others with 1 each. 
Irish speedster Mike Miller races past the Michigan defense on the way the first punt return for a touchdown against the Wolverines since Notre Dame's Ricky Watters did it in 1988. 



~ 
' ...... 

page 2 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY September 13, 1993 
McDougal takes command of offense and starting job 
staring at a path to the national only established himself as the title. starter, but a good one.
Upset It is difficult to determine if From the opening drive, an the defense or the offense con­eight play 83-yard march, the continued from page l tributed the most to this win Irish showed that they were not which is the way it is supposed the same offensive football
"and we wanted to show every­
to be, complete and perfect. team that sputtered a week
one that Notre Dame football 
"Coach Holtz gave us a plan ago.
was for real." 
and said if we follow this we The Irish were able to negate
The Irish did both. The con­
will win," said Burris. poor field position on the open­
troversy surrounding the 
That plan must have included ing drive thanks to two
book"Under the Tarnished 
a near-flawless game from se­Michigan penalties and a 14­
Dome," has faded like 
nior quarterback Kevin yard gain by tailback Lee
Michigan's national title hopes. 
McDougal. After a fall filled Becton. McDougal then took
All eyes have turned to the foot­
with concern over the prospects center stage, hitting Lee Becton
ball field, where suddenly the 
at quarterback, McDougal not on third and seven at the 50­
once dismal-looking Irish are 

SEASON CUM: 
QUARTERBACKS LINEBACKERS McDougal proved he is cut Played excellent, even out to lead a Notre Dame without Peterson; prevented 
~ 
team and deservedly was the Wheatley big play given the game ball 
~ 
SECONDARY RUNNING BACKS Didn't give up the big play Becton broke a couple, but and disrupted Michigan 
without McDougal's efforts drives with three INTs the running game was poor 
w 
SPECIAL TEAMS RECEIVERS Miller'sTD and two FGs Sticky fingers and acrobatics bring score up against kept many drives alive. Key missed FG and shaky 
blocks also sprang first TO punting 
0-LINE COACHING Off-tackle was there, but the Holtz was always a step 
middle stayed jammed. Pass ahead of Moeller and UM blocking was excellent. couldn't quite figure out 
w 
Minter's schemes D-LINE Kept pressure on FINAL SCORE Collins,stopped Wheatley as A Dean's List performance 
(!j 

well as possible; continue for the Irish playing to potential 

yard line. And capping the drive, with a 43-yard option keeper, the same play that Tony Rice scored on to open the rout of USC in 1988. 
"I didn't expect for the run to go that far, but the receivers did a great job of blocking downfield," said McDougal re­ferring to key blocks by Mike Miller and Derrick Mayes in the Michigan secondary. 
The opening drive seemed to fuel the Irish defense, as it held Michigan to only a field goal on its first possession, and score­less on its next two. 
The offense continued to drive, scoring on a 24-yard Kevin Pendergast field goal set up by a 43-yard pass from McDougal to Clint Johnson and a 32-yard strike to keep the drive alive on third-and-eight. 
"Seeing Kevin out there the whole game builds confidence," said offensive tackle Aaron Taylor. "The team felt really re­assured when he went out there and drove the team on the first possession." 
After a Wolverine field goal, both offenses exchanged punts, but Michigan's turned sour, as Irish returner Mike Miller scur­ried 56-yards for the first punt return for a touchdown against Michigan since Hicky Watters burned the Wolverines in 1988. 
"I started left but I saw a hole open up in the middle," said Miller. "I was able to sidestep and defender and then I was in the open." 
Michigan's Tyrone Wheatley made the score 17-10 with a 1­yard scoring plunge, but with 
1:13 left in the half McDougal took it upon himself to bolster the Irish lead going into the locker room. 
He scrambled for 18-yards when the drive seemed stalled on third-and-nine from the Notre Dame 36-yard line. McDougal then hit Dawson and Mayes for 20 and 15-yard gains. After stopping the clock with 13 seconds remaining, McDougal dropped baek to pass and found no receivers open, so he tucked the ball away and 11­yards later found the left corner of the endzone. 
"They were playing man which leaves some holes in the defensive line," said McDougal, who finished 12-21 for 208­yards and scored two touch­downs on a team high 66-yards rushing. "I was able to outrun the defenders to the endzone." 
The Irish offense took the sec­ond half off, getting only a field goal on it's opening drive before turning the game over to the defense. 
Wheatley scored on a 4-yard run to open the fourth quartPr and kept threatening through­out the period, but intercep­tions by Burris and Bobby Taylor halted two drives. 
Michigan quarterback Todd Collins found Mercury Hayes for a 13-yard score with 34 sec­onds remaining to pull the score to 27-23, but an onside kick attempt failed when Taylor fell on the ball near midfield. 
"This is probably the most difficult situation a team of mine has overcome," said Holtz, "considering we've only had two weeks of two-a-days practices and then we have to come into Michigan Stadium and play the No. 3 team in the country." 
"This win feels great," said Taylor. "A lot of people counted us out, but we kept our heads up and drew strength from within." 

By BRIAN KUBICKI 
Associate Sports Ediwr 
Kevin McDougal is not a flam­boyant leader. lie will not yell to motivate. He will not get in your face. 
''I'm not a vocal guy. I like to lead by example," he admits. More than he ever has, he led Notre Dame on Saturday. 
Unfazed by the NCAA record crowd of 106,851, he displayed his leadership on the first drive of the game. On the sixth play of the drive, McDougal took the ball on an option left, turned the corner, and sped past a Derrick Mayes block for the endzone. 
This run gave Notre Dame a surprising early lead, even a lit­tle surprising for McDougal himself. 
"I didn't expect for it to go that far but the receivers did a great job of blocking," he said. 
Michigan head coach Gary Moeller thought there was a lit­tle more to that run than just good blocking. "He's a lot like Tony Rice, but he can throw a little better," he said on his television show reviewing the game. 
McDougal threw plenty better than he had in the Northwestern game, displaying his leadership with 208 yards on 12 of 21 passing. 
The most impressive example of his leadership came at the end of the first half. Michigan had just scored to bring them within seven of the Irish and swing the momentum of the game towards the Wolverines. McDougal and his offense were left with only 1:13 to move the ball. 
After two ineffective plays, McDougal took the drive into his own hands. 
On third and nine, he rolled 
Player ofthe Game 
Kevin 


McDougal 

• In his finest game with the Irish. McDougal was 12-21 for 208 yards and he also led the Irish with 66 yards rushing and two touchdowns. 
right and kept running for 18 yards before stepping out of bounds. On the next play, McDougal stepped left to avoid­ed a sack, reset himself, and fired a 20 yard pass straight over the middle to Dawson. 
After spending a timeout, the Irish came out with visible con­fidence in their quarterback. "We (the offense) felt really re­assured when he went out there and led that drive," said tackle Aaron Taylor. 
McDougal continued to reas­sure his teammates with his actions when in only 11 sec­onds completed a 15 yard pass to Derrick Mayes, got his of­fense back on the line and stopped the clock. 
The most telling play of the drive was the final one. The team had driven into field goal range, but had 13 more sec­onds to try to score. On a called pass, McDougal couldn't find an open receiver and decided to scramble for the endzone. 
Conventional wisdom says to throw the ball away and take the field goal, but McDougal knew he could make it and went for it. Such confidence did not go unnoticed by his team­mates, and such ability only built their confidence in McDougal. 
"A lot of people are trying to write him off, but he can play," Taylor said of his quarterback. 
Mike Miller agreed, "K-Mac is good. He was confident. He took things basically as they happened." 
McDougal, however, shared the responsibility as any good leader should. "The teammates I have around me, I know they're great players, so I felt if I could just do my job, great things would happen." 
The question of whose job it is still hovers about the quarterback position. "My thoughts have not changed. I still think Paul Failla will con­tribute to this team," Holtz said after the game, giving the impression that when Failla recovers from his thumb injury, Holtz will again start platooning his quarterbacks. 
These situations are not new to McDougal who sat for three seasons behind Rick Mirer the second pick overall in last year's NFL draft. He proved himself last spring but still could not nail the starting job. 
The arrival of freshman Hon Powlus presented yet another challenge. Powlus appeared to have the inside track to the starting spot until he suffered a broken collar bone during prac­tice. All of a sudden it felt like Notre Dame would have to set­tle for McDougal. 
All of this, he overcame with Saturday's performance. He proved to millions of fans watching on television that he could lead Notre Dame. More importantly he proved it to his teammates. 

The Observer/Jake Peters Notre Dame quarterback Kevin McDougal eyes the Michigan defense as he sets up under center Tim Ruddy. 



~--~~~--~~----~.-~~~---~--------=~w~~--------------------_,----~-------------------------------­
September 13, 1993 
aracter o Notre Dame 
The Observer/David Hungeling Notre Dame safety Jeff Burris leaps over Mercury Hayes to bat a pass away. Burris had two interceptions on the day . 
• 

The Observer/Jake Peters Notre Dame wide receiver Lake Dawson lunges to catch a pass in the first quarter of Saturday's game. 
um;erver/.J'ake Peters 

Irish defensive linemen Thomas Knight (right) and Jim Flanigan converge on Michigan quarterback Todd Collins. 
1 2 3 4 F 
10 14 3 0 27 
3 7 0 13 23 

TIME McDougal 43 run (Pendergast kick) 11:55 Elezovic 32 FG 6:02 Pendergast 24 FG 2:36 Miller 56 punt return (Pendergast kick) 10:17 Wheatley 1 run (Eiezovic kick) 1:13 McDougal 11 run (Pendergast kick) 0:06 Pendergast 19 FG 6:52 Wheatley 4 run 14:57 Hayes 13 pass from Collins (pass failed) 0:34 
Notre Dame Michigan 
OTR TEAM 
1 NO 
UM 
NO 2 NO UM 
NO 3 NO 4 UM UM 
IRISH STATS 
PASSING 
A/C/1  Yds  CP  
McDougal  21/12/0  208  .571  
RECEIVING  
No  Yds  Avg  
Dawson  3  64  21.3  
C. Johnson  2  56  28.0  
Mayes  2  34  17.0  
Zellars  2  17  8.5  
Becton  2  14  7.0  
Miller  1  23  23.0  
RUSHING  
Att  Yds  Avg  
McDougal  9  66  7.3  
Becton  17  66  3.9  
Zellars  12  18  1.5  
Dawson  1  8  8.0  
Burris  3  4  1.3  
Kinder  3  1  .3  
Edwards  1  0  0  
DEFENSE  
T A  Tot  
Bereich  9  4  13  
Goheen  5  4  9  
Hamilton  7  0  7  
Burris  5  1  6  
B. Taylor  4  2  6  
Lane  4  2  6  
Wynn  5  0  5  
Covington  5  0  5  
Magee  3  2  5  
Young  4  0  4  
0 Gibson  2  2  4  
Flanigan  2  0  2  

-
WOLVERINE STATS 

PASSING  
TO  Lg  A/C/1  Yds  CP  TO  Lg  
0  43  T. Collins  37/22/3  251  59.5  1  43  
RECEIVING  
TO  Lg  NO  YOS  AVG  TO  LG  
0  32  Hayes  6  96  16.0  1  43  
0  43  Toomer  5  56  11.6  0  23  
0  19  W.Smith  4  34  8.5  0  17  
0  16  Wheatley  3  39  13.0  0  19  
0  7  Cooper  2  10  5.0  0  7  
0  23  Malveaux  1  9  9.0  0  9  
Burkholder  1  5  5.0  0  5  
TO  Lg  BUSHING  
2  43  ATT  YDS  AVG  TO  LG  
0  15  Wheatley  25  146  5.8  2  45  
0  5  Davis  3  13  4.3  0  7  
0  8  R. Powers  2  6  3.0  0  6  
0  2  T. Collins  4  -14  -3.5  0  1  
0  5  DEFENSE  
0  0  T  A  Tot  SAC  lnt  
Peoples  9  3  12  0  0  
SAC  lnt  Morrison  6  5  11  0  0  
0  0  Stanley  5  1  6  1  0  
0  0  Dudlar  5  0  5  0  0  
0  0  Winters  5  0  5  0  0  
0  2  B. Powers  4  1  5  0  0  
1  1  frons  4  0  4  0  0  
0  0  Law  3  1  4  0  0  
1  0  Aghakhan  3  0  3  0  0  
0  0  Horn  3  0  3  0  0  
0  0  Burch  2  1  3  0  0  
1  0  D. Johnson  1  2  3  0  0  
0  0  Dyson  2  0  2  0  0  
Bolach  1  0  1  0  0 

0 0 
Y
ou couldn't help but ques­tion a little. estion the man , ........ ~ ... Lou Holtz. All The Book said, allegations tar­ing the man and Dome. Could they 


true? What if the reason 
GeorgeDame looked so 
Dohrmann against

orthwestern was the ...._________. 
Holtz was worried about The Book and ot his team? The answer came aturday. 
Holtz is back. Notre Dame is back. nd the book will only be used as a coaster. 
It wasn't just that the win that silenced the doubters. it was the way Notre Dame won, who it was against, and how Holtz proved again he was the master. 
"This win is a credit to coach Holtz all that Notre Dame stands for," defensive line coach Mike Trgovac. 
If the Heisman Trophy was given to coaches, Holtz would be at the Downtown Athletic Club tomorrow. He took Gary Moeller to school and then gave him a failing grade. 
Holtz handed his team a game plan during the week and told them if they follow it they would win. But it was more complex than that, his coaching staff seemed to call the perfect defense and the perfect pass route. 
'This was a whole coaching staff con­tribution," said Holtz. 
The credit is rightly distributed among his assistants, but this game belonged to Holtz, just like the game ball which his team awarded to him in the locker room after the game. 
He knew how to beat Michigan and he put his team in a position to win. Notre Dame wasn't as talented, not as expe­rienced but he made them a better team. 
"When adversity hits he (Holtz) becomes more focused," said linebacker Pete Bereich. "He worked us hard this week, got us prepared. He was probably more intense this week then he has ever been in his life." 
The best way to defme Notre Dame is to say that it is all that Michigan is not, and that made the win so much more special. 
Michigan fans booed the an­nouncement of Gary Moeller's posf­game show and faded in and out of the game, only returning when the offense produced. It was a textbook definition of fair-weather. 
They hawked Irish fans before and after the game. Irish fans are poor-win­ners but graceful losers. Michigan fans are just poor. 
The intensity of Irish and Wolverine fans is very similar, but Notre Dame fans are loyal. They love their team and their school win or lose. 
"They thought they could beat us just by putting. their helmets on," said one Irish player, "just because they were Michigan." 
The Wolverine players were cocky. They were No. 3 in the country and let you know it. That made the victory sweet like beating Miami. Beating the arrogance out of them was as important as winning on the scoreboard. 
And Irish fans walked the streets of Ann Arbor taunting Michigan fans by telling them they still have the Big T title and the Rose Bowl to strive for, but implying that the only reason they care about those are because they can't the national title, because to do tha they have to beat Notre Dame. Taunting rude fans and beating an arrogant team are sweet. As long as the Irish have Holtz everything will taste sweet. 
"A lot of people counted us out, 
but kept our heads up and drew from within," said safety Bobby 
That strength was Notre Dame, sible to grasp and difficult to define, is why Notre Dame won, and why victory means so much. 
When the final gun had sounded the players had let Lou Holtz climb down from their shoulders, the Notre Dame players walked down to the stu­dent section and saluted their fans. 
It was a display which Michigan fans will have difficulty understanding, and an emotion which they may never understand. Not the winning or the joy in victory, but the pleasure in and having your faith reassured, then being thanked. 
~ --------~----~~,~------------~---, 

page 4 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY September 13, 1993 
Irish defense leaves Michigan stunned 
By BRIAN KUBICKI Associa1e Sports Edi10r 

Fourth and two; Michigan's going for it. 
As the quarterback drops back, the Notre Dame defense scrambles to recov­er. They had been expecting a run not a diving touchdown catch. 
The last time the Irish travelled to Ann Arbor, big plays like that fourth and two touchdown pass to eventual Heisman Trophy winner Desmond Howard put the game out of reach for the Irish. 
This year, Michigan's big play capabil­ities were as threatening as they ever had been, but Notre Dame was ready. Behind the new scheme of second year defensive coordinator Rick Minter, the highly talented Irish defense was not about to let the big play beat them. Michigan would have to earn every touchdown. 
"That was two years ago. This is this year. We had goals as a team," said safety Jeff Burris who was covering Howard when he caught the pass in 1991. 
Luckily for Notre Dame's defense, their own offense and special teams used the big play to score two touch­downs before Michigan even had one. 
"We were down so much, it was hard to run the offense like you want to," explained Todd Collins, Michigan's quarterback. 
That statement sums up Notre Dame's 
defensive effort. Looking at the final sta­tistics, you realize that Michigan was far from being shut down. 
Michigan had 402 yards of total offense, 31 more than the Notre Dame offense. Collins threw for 251 yards on 22 of 37 (59.4%) passing. Wheatley led all rushers with 146 and 5.8 a carry. 
It was the things that disrupted Michigan's offense, that kept them from running their offense like they wanted to that made the ultimate difference. It was the three interceptions. It was the fact that the Wolverines had only six net rushing yards more than Wheatley's total. It was the pressure on Michigan's quarterback. 
All of this translates into a complete defensive effort. 
Those interceptions all came in the second half when Notre Dame's offense was struggling. Although only one resulted in an Irish score (only a field goal at that). each prevented Michigan from getting momentum completely on their side. 
The first came after Wheatley returned the second half kickoff 49 yards, giving the Wolverines excellent field position. On the third play of the drive, Burris picked off a pass intended for Mercury Hayes. 
Cornerback Bobby Taylor robbed Amani Toomer of a sure completion for the second interception on Michigan's next possession. 
The most important one came from 
Burris again. Needing two touchdowns to win Michigan had the ball on Notre Dame's 45 with 5:42 left in the game. On the first play, Collins overthrew Toomer right into Burris' hands. His 43 yard re­turn took the Wolverines out of the game for good. 
"The defensive line and the lineback­ers really created the big plays for us," said Burris. 
Though they only sacked Collins once (the other of Notre Dame's sacks came from Taylor), the defensive line ha­rassed Collins almost every time he passed. 
"They were rushing the passer well," he said. "It is tough to get down the field when they put pressure like that on you." 
The front seven made it difficult for Michigan to get down the field running, as well. Although they failed to shut down Wheatley's big plays, they did shut down Michigan's running game. 
Take away Wheatley's run of 45 yards and his 25 yard run and he averages only 3.3 yards a carry. Ricky Powers and Ed Davis, both tailbacks, combined for 19 yards on only five carries. 
"We would have liked to run inside more, but that is a great football team," Michigan head coach Gary Moeller said. "They have skilled perimeter players which allowed them to come at us like they did." 
Without this consistent running ability Michigan was unable to convert on third 

The Observer/David Hungeling 
Jeff Burris had two interceptions for the Irish. 
down. They were 5 of 14 on third down for a poor .357 average. 
The most surprising play game from Notre Dame's linebackers, who were almost non-existent on the stat sheet for Northwestern. This week, seemed like it might be more of the same with the injury to Anthony Peterson. 
Weakside linebacker Pete Bereich led all tacklers with 13, nine of those solo. Justin Goheen was second with nine total tackles, while he filled in for Peterson at middle linebacker. 


Upsets not unusual during Holtz era 
,..._._...  
NOTRE DAME  
38  
usc 37  I  
I:  
i  
November 29, 1986  

Trailing by 17 points in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame put together one of its greatest comebacks in history to defeat USC 38-37. 
Fueled by Tim Brown's kickoff and punt returns of 57 and 56 yards, respectively, and a fiery halftime speech by Holtz, Notre Dame found itself in a position to win on the game's last pla}'. 
John Carney's last second field goal made up for a season of near misses and set the stage for many thrilling upsets during the Holtz era. 

-
NOTRE DAME 31 


MIAMI 30 
October 15, 1988 

Certainly Notre Dame's biggest win under Holtz, and· possibly its biggest win ever. 
Miami came m ranked No. 1 and carrying a 36 game winning streak. All that came to an end as Notre Dame took the air out of the Hurricanes with a heart-stopping win. 
When Pat Terrell knocked away Steve Walsh's two-point conversion pass in the final seconds, the victory was sealed and the Irish were on their way to their first national title under Holtz. 
NOTRE DAME 37 
ALABAMA 
6 

November 14, 1987 
There was an elec­

trici~ in Notre Dame Stadmm that hadn't been felt in nearly a decade. 
No. 11 Alabama fell victim to an inspired Irish team, led by quarterback Tony Rice and eventual Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown, who helped lift the Irish into nation­al cham_pionhip contention with the win 
Irish fans threw oranges onto the field as a New Year's Day bowl was in their sights for the first time since 1980. 
NOTRE DAME 39 
FLORIDA 
28 


Sugar Bowl January 1, 1992 
Holtz drew motiva­tion from a joke a waiter told him in a New Orleans restaurant. 

The difference between Notre Dame and Cheerios? Cheerios belonged in a bowl, Notre Dame didn't. 
Holtz and the Irish proved on New Year's Day that they too belonged in a bowl, exe­cuting a brilliant defensive game plan­developed by Holtz-on the way to a 39-28 thumping of No. 3 Florida. 
Coach Holtz, you proved us wrong again 
Dear Coach Holtz, 
After seven years of this kind of thing, you'd think peo­ple would come to expect it. 
Overcoming the odds to win the big games has become so commonplace during your tenure that it shouldn't be a surprise that it happened ' again Saturday. 
But even to those who have Jason Kelly seen the great Irish upsets of._________, the Holtz era, Saturday's thrashing of Michigan was a surprise. A big surprise. 

We forgot the brilliant coaching job that sub­dued Florida in the 1992 Sugar Bowl. And the thrilling 31-30 win over Miami in 1988 that cata­pulted the team to the national title. 
The 17-point fourth quarter comeback against USC in 1986 is ancient history. 
It couldn't happen again this year. 
With the controversy about The Book and The Kicker swirling relentlessly, you stood before the crowd at the first pep rally of the season and said, "You can stack the distractions as high as this roof and we'll overcome them." 
Nobody believed it. 
This time the distractions would be too great and your team had neither the talent nor the experience to overcome them. 
You even seemed to doubt your own abilities, at least publicly, when you said that you would take the voters of the Associated Press football poll to dinner if the Irish finished sixth or higher this season. 
Will that be cash or charge? 
Adversity drives you to succeed like it drives most people to seek refuge. Few people could stand the intense scrutiny and criticism that is part of your job description. 
With commendable restraint, you've kept silent about this year's flurry of distractions, content to quiet your detractors with wins rather than words. 
Silencing critics is easier atop the shoulders o your players than in front of a microphone. 
In your own mind you must have known all along what the rest of us discovered (or re­membered) on Saturday-that the main ingredi­ent to all those classic Notre Dame upsets over the past seven years still paces the sidelines. 
Players and assistant coaches have come and gone. Lou Holtz remains. 
In 1986, you made the Notre Dame football players believe in themselves. In 1988, you made them champions. 
Time and time again, you've made them exceed their own limits, rising above adversity to laugh last and laugh best. 
Saturday, you proved that it could happen again. 





