
1-J --:--. 
. _;J,.;. I Tuesday, October 19, 1993 • Vol. XXVI.No:!J E INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Jury acquits defendants of most counts in Denny trial 
By LINDA DEUTSCH against Henry Watson. ted them of most charges that ney. the TV tabloid show "Inside Associated Press Superior Court Judge John required specific intent. The jury convicted Williams Edition." "They should let the Ouderkirk ordered the jury to Defense psychologists testi­on simple mayhem, with a max­guy go. He spent a year-and-a­LOS ANGELES resume deliberations Tuesday, fied that Williams, 20, and his imum penalty of up to eight half in jail and has had time to 
Two blacks were acquitted saying he hoped that a "good 29-year-old co-defendant acted years in prison. think about what happened." Monday of most of the felony night's rest" would be helpful. in the heat of the moment and In the charges decided He said he wouldn't comment charges in the beating of white The jury convicted the defen­couldn't have planned their ac­against him, Watson was ac­on Williams until the jury fin­trucker Reginald Denny and dants of lesser counts. It first tions. quitted of all but simple assault ished deliberating. other motorists at the start of told Ouderkirk it was dead­Their heads newly shaven, on Denny, a lesser related of­As the verdicts were read, the 1992 riots, easing fears of locked on three charges. He Williams and Watson sat calmly fense that carries only a year in Watson's mother, Joyce, sat in renewed racial tensions. told jurors to continue deliber­as the verdicts were read, ex­county jail rather than prison. the courtroom's front row, sti­
The multiracial jury ended ating and hours later, it found cept when the clerk announced The jury rejected the charge fling sobs with a handkerchief the day still deadlocked on the Williams innocent of a robbery "Not Guilty" on an aggravated that Watson, who has been held after Ouderkirk had warned the most serious count -at­charge. mayhem charge against since shortly after the riots, audience against outbursts. tempted murder against de­Accepting the defense argu­Williams, which could have tried to kill Denny, the count Williams, who gained fame fendant Damian "Football" ment that Williams and Watson brought him life in prison. that could have brought him life when he was personally ar­Williams in the videotaped at­were caught up in mob violence Williams clapped his hands in prison. rested by former Police Chief tack of Denny -and dead­after the state Rodney King over his eyes, reared back in "I am in total agreement Daryl Gates, was acquitted of locked on an assault count beating trial, the jurors acquit-his seat and hugged his attor-(with the jurors)," Denny told eight counts. 
Senate supports students' right for dorm initiations 
By ANALISE TAYLOR tiation rites," said Joe Cassidy, 
News Writer director of the Student Activi­
ties Board. "The initiations can 
In an attempt to foster both be done in an appropriate man­
dorm and school spirit and to ner." 
avoid further deterioration of Other concerns addressed 
the level of social activity on included printing problems in 
campus, the Student Senate computer clusters and security 
passed a resolution last night for the parking lots. 
supporting the right of dorms Pat Lyons, a representative 
and student groups to conduct for the computer systems on 
initiation rites in accordance campus, told the Senate about 
with University policy. problems in the computer clus­
"The Student Senate's ap­ters on campus. 
proval of this proppsal is a sign "Students need to be more 
that the student body does not reasonable when they print," 
approve-of the administration's Lyons said. 
high-handed tactics in this mat­If students continue to print 
ter," said District 3 Senator numerous copies of papers and 
Sean Sullivan. electronic textbooks the Uni­
Supporters of tbe resolution versity may start charging them 
said that the new policy against for these copies, he said. 
initiations is ambiguous and "If the University spends a 
-needs clarification. great amount on printing, they Student Body President Frank Flynn and Vice President Nicole Wellmann discuss the banning of initiation "I think it's a communication may not be able to purchase rites and ceremonies at the Student Senate meeting held last night. problem, not a total ban of ini-other computers and materi-
SMC celebrates history 
Effects of health care reforms on tradition orL Founders' Day 



Notre Dame policy unclear 
By CHERYL GILLILAND from 4:30 to 6:15p.m. 
News Writer At 7 p.m. in The Clubhouse, 
the drawing for the college ring By SARAH DORAN of the University and its plan calls for literal adherence 
Saint Mary's College students will be held, and Sister Miriam Assistant News Editor employees independently of the to this rule, he said. 
and faculty will be "Honoring Cooney, a 1951 graduate of alliance, said Mullins. The question to be answered 
Tradition" today, as they cele­Saint Mary's College, will be How the Clinton health plan According to the current is if the student employee fig­
brate the 149th Founders' Day. speaking on the "Golden Era of will affect the insurance bene­draft of the plan, entities that ure will be included in the 
The Student Alumnae Associ­the '50's: Sister Madeleva's Col­fits given to Notre Dame faculty employ more than 5,000 peo­composite figure for coverage 
ation has prepared the festivi­lege." and staff is not known at this ple will be exempt from enter­or if the figure will include only 
ties for the day with additional The director of the Alumnae point, due to many qualifica­ing the health alliances that traditional, regular employees. 
funds from Student Govern­Association, Barb Henry and tions for the 
the plan will use to pool Notre Dame currently em­
ment. The association is en­the Assistant Director Adaline plan which together many small employers ploys 3,200 regular full time 
couraging students to attend Cashore, both Saint Mary's have yet to of a geographic area. The goal workers, 400 non-regular full 
the celebration, entitled alumnae, feel that Founders' be defined, of the alliances is to give small time workers (adjunct and re­
"Honoring Tradition," to honor Day is a very important day for according to employers the, insurance search professors), 173 regular 
the co-founders of Saint Mary's students and faculty to honor R o g e r purchasing power that large part time workers, and more 
College, Mother Angela Gille­the history of Saint Mary's Col­Mullins, employers have had in gener­than 4,000 non-regular part 
spie, a sister of the Holy Cross lege. director of ating most favorable benefit time workers, according to 
and Father Edward Sorin, a di­"Founders' Day is a long Human rates. Mullins. These figures com­
rector of the establishment of standing observance of the Col­Resources. But the number of hours an bined for the University to dis­Notre Dame duLac in 1843. lege that dates back to the The root of the plan's poten­employee must work per week tribute more than 9,000 W-2 Festivities will begin with a 1800s," commented Cashore. tial effect lies in whether or not in order to count towards the forms last year, he said. reception from noon until 1 "It was originally the feast day Notre Dame's number of em­figure qualifying a company for But, to be eligible for the 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in Le of Fr. Edward Sorin, and it's a ployees qualify it for exemption exemption from the health plan benefit plan that Notre Dame Mans Hall where there will be celebration that has continued from the health alliances that is not known at this point, said currently offers, employees 

refreshments, a display of his­for more than 100 years." the Clinton plan will use to Mullins, and this prohibits must work at least 20 hours a administer health care cover­Notre Dame from determining week. This qualification deter­
torical memorabilia, a chance Nellie Sanford and Ann Mer­
to buy tickets for the Saint corella, seniors at Saint Mary's age, said David Betson, associ­if it can qualify for health al­mined that the University 
Mary's ring raffle and 1993 and the student chairpersons of ate professor of economics. liance exemption. extend benefits to the 3,200 Currently it would be most Employees working at least regular full time workers, 173
Saint Mary's student telephone the Student Alumnae Associa­
directories. tion, have devoted a great deal advantageous for the 10 hours a week qualify for regular part time workers and 
From 2 to 5 p.m., an open of time and planning to today's University not to be in the coverage by the National 400 non-regular full time plan's health alliances, as it Health Plan, said Mullins. But, workers. As of August 1993
house will be held in Riedinger activities. Alumnae House, and a special "I think that the Student would be most likely able to because Notre Dame employs figures, 3,211 University student dinner of prime rib will offer a benefit package that many students who w·ork ten 
be served in the dining hall more favorably suits the needs hours, it is not known if the see HEALTH/ page 4
see FOUNDERS/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 19,1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Seniors are behind the eight ball 


something other than "Slushie Engineer" at the local 7-11. 
But the process of getting a job involves mas­sive frustration. And so, to quell their frustra­tion and answer their questions, seniors take the Career and Placement plunge. 
Career and Placement, located at the end of a long hallway in the basement of Hesburgh Library (for those of you still trying to find it), is a fantastic service. Fantastic if your years at Notre Dame have enabled you to figure out exactly how to spend the rest of your life. Career and Placement is here for those focused seniors. Run, don't walk. Hand over the twenty dollars and proclaim, "Gimme a job!" 
However, if you are an unsure senior trying to decide what you want to be when you grow up, come this way. There is an alternative. 
Something just as informative, reassuring, and frustrating as Career and Placement does exist. The Eight Ball™. 
Yes, this mystical black toy-wonder manufac­tured by Tyco could easily replace the advisors, books, pamphlets, lists supplied by Career and Placement. The Eight BallTM is ideal for seniors because they seek definite answers to their spe­cific questions. 
Before you ask the orb your deepest query, there are a few rules: Do not attempt to drink the liquid contained inside of The Eight Ball™. Prolonged use of The Eight Ball™ may lead to more frustration. And whatever you do, do not taunt The Eight Ball™. 
Of course, you will start with the biggie, "Will I get a job?" Shake the ball, stare into the circle window, wait for the blue bubbles to clear away and read, "Yes, definitely." 
You feel good. You love this hand-held advi­sor. "Talk to me baby, talk to me." 
Next question, "Will my job be something I want to do?" Shake it again, hold your breath and read, "Don't count on it." 
Shaken, not stirred, you grab your dwindling hope and ask, "Will I make enough money to be able to live on my own and not at my parents' home for the next seventeen years?" This is it...."Very Doubtful" 
Okay. So maybe The Eight Ball™ is too hon­est. Granted, The Eight Ball™ is not going to coddle a senior and hold his/her hand. The Eight Ball™ just tells what it sees. 
You may be frustrated with The Eight Ball™. You want to hurl it against the wall. Guess what? You can do that with The Eight Ball™. You cannot do that with an advisor or prospec­tive employer. 
Go ahead and chuck it. But, that will be the end of The Eight Ball™ and you won't be able to ask any more questions. There will be no more toys for you. You will have to act like an adult. You will probably have to don a suit, print a resume, and interview. 
I'm not bitter, I'm just a senior. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Laura Ferguson Mark Zito Liz Foran John Rock Sporrs Accent Jonathan Jenson Bevin Kovalik Business Susan McGovern Pancho Lozano Graphics Lab Tech Chris Weirup John Bingham 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccp£ during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of rhC' Associated Press. All rC"producrion rights are reserved. 
If you are a senior, if you will be a senior in one, two or three years, if you were once a senior, if you in any way have any association with any senior on this campus, you understand frustration. 
Frustration is personi­
fied by the masses of seniors who pray' dream, aspire to be employed as 
Rose Dilenschneider 
Ad Designer 

Three dead, two wounded in Fort Knox training center shooting 
FORT KNOX pect in the multiple homicide _ ..from A man went on a shooting rampage ILL. IND. OHIO Fort Knox," said Lt. Gene Sherrard, 
today at a Fort Knox training center, killing three civilians and wounding two others, authorities said. 
A man described as a suspect in the shootings later wounded himself at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Louisville, a homicide detective said. 
All five shooting victims were civilian employees at the Army base, said Army chief homicide detective for the Louisville Police Department. 
The man was described as in critical condition. Sherrard saic' the suspect was an out-patient at the V,\ hospital. 
The two wounded were taken to University Hospital in Louisville, where spokeswoman Gayle Jewitt said they were in critical condition and undergo-
Pre. Willaim Lurwick. 100 miles TENN. / ing surgery for chest wounds. The Army did not give any other C::S //-Lurwick identified the injured as Roger information about the shootings or a L-1o_o_k_m________L_/ N_._c_j. Saltsman and Judy Nemec. 
possible motive. Fort Knox officials issued a bulletin for a man whose address was listed in nearby Radcliff. The search for the gunman later led to the VA medical center in Louisville, more than 40 miles away. "The man who was found here in a bathroom is a sus-
Spike Lee objects to defense of Danson 
WATERVILLE 
Spike Lee thinks Whoopi Goldberg is confused in defending boyfriend Ted Danson's blackface routine at a recent Friars Club charity roast. Danson caused an uproar earlier this month at the private event, when the white actor donned blackface makeup, used the word "nigger" and jested about his sex life with Goldberg, who is black. 

"Whoopi's been on the warpath defending this thing; I just think she's confused," Lee, a filmmaker who often focuses on racial tensions, told an audience Sunday at Colby College. "There's just no way she can defend what transpired." Tftlk show host Monte! Williams quit the New York club over the skit. Mayor David Dinkins decried it as "way, way over the line." But the actress, whose movies include "Sister Act" and, with Danson, "Made in America," has argued that the humor was sup­posed to be vulgar. Besides, she said, she wrote much of the skit material, and found the makeup artist. 
Most husbands, wives don't cheat 
WASHINGTON 
The vast majority of married Americans don't cheat on their spouses, a sex researcher says, disputing claims that adultery is rampant. About 15 percent of married or previously married Americans have cheated on a spouse, estimates Tom Smith of the National Opinion Research Center. Perhaps 3 percent to 4 percent of husbands and wives have a sexual partner outside their marriage in a given year, said Smith, director of the center's General Social Survey. "There are probably more scientifically worthless 'facts' on extramarital relations than on any other facet of human behavior," Smith said Monday in a report at an American Enterprise Institute seminar. Smith said TV talk shows and popular magazines com­monly report much higher numbers of marital cheaters. 
Turkey says embargo hasn't hurt Saddam 
WASHINGTON 
The U.N. embargo against Iraq has hurt the Turkish and Iraqi people but not Saddam Hussein, Turkey's prime minister said Monday. "I wish the embargo had hurt Saddam Hussein as much as it has hurt us," said Tansu Ciller in remarks at the National Press Club. Ciller said that Saddam, "in a sort of mysterious way, is becom­ing a hero in that region." The American-educated leader called on the United States to help Turkey solve economic problems from the embargo, including the clos­ing of an oil pipeline and an end to lucrative cross-border trade between the neighboring countries. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 19. 

AP Fort Knox is home of the nation's gold 
repository. Lurwick said the Training Support Center is about three miles from the repository. It supplies classroom equipment to the base. 
Fort Knox, with 32,000 military and civilian employees, also is an Army tank training center. 
Church officials, courts tackling sex abuse 
Sex and the church. Priests and child abuse. A topic that once was too sinful to talk about in public now is being discussed and debated by everyone from talk show hosts to Pope John Paul II. No systematic studies have been conducted, but Jason Berry, author of a book on the topic, has said more than 400 Catholic priests in North America have been accused of molesting children since 1984, costing the church $400 million in settlements. Fa­ther Canice Connors, who heads a Maryland-based insti­tute that treats pedophiles in the clergy, has estimated that between 2 percent and 4 percent of Catholic priests may have been guilty of sexual abuse over the last 30 years. Last summer, the pope addressed the problem publicly for the first time, telling U.S. bishops in a letter that he shared their sorrow for the victims. He and the 
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops have appointed pan­els to study the issue. 
Russia says it will continue nuclear dumping 
MOSCOW 

Russia plans to continue dumping low-level radioactive waste at sea, despite protests from Japan on Monday and Moscow's repeated promises to halt the practice. Japan disputed assertions by Russia that it gave advance warn­ing of the dumping and demanded it be halted immedi­ately. A Russian ship dumped more than 237,000 gallons of liquid waste -more than enough to fill three Olympic­size swimming pools -into the Sea of Japan over the weekend, just days after President Boris Yeltsin agreed with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa of Japan that such dumping was harmful. The dispute threatened to undo much of the goodwill generated by Yeltsin's recent visit to Tokyo, although environmental officials said the Russian president was not informed of the dumping in advance. 
Shevardnadze pins hopes on Russia 
TBILISI 

Beleaguered Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze said Monday he was counting on Russia to end rebel fighting in western Georgia that has cut a key rail link between Georgia's capital and the coast. Meanwhile, peace talks on another rebel movement could start as early as next month, a U.N. mediator said Monday. Shevardnadze's forces have been defeated recently in Abkhazia, also in western Georgia. Forces backing oust­ed President Zviad Gamsakhurdia captured a key town Sunday in western Georgia, inflicting heavy losses on troops loyal to Shevardnadze. 


r---------------------~-----------------~------------·----~-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, October 19, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS 


Alumna encourages to have family, career 
By JENNIFER LEW1S News Writer 
Gloria Ybarra, came baGk to Saint Mary's yesterday after 18 years to encourage women that they can have both a family and a career. 
In her lecture "One woman's path from Saint Mary's student to lawyer, judge, and Mother," Ybarra, a Saint Mary's gradu­ate of 1975, described her plight from motherhood to ju­dicature. 
Ybarra will be speaking again on Wed., Oct. 20 in Hag­gar College Center. 
Ybarra went to a large urban high school in Arizona. She was the senior student body president and a honor roll stu­dent. For personal reasons Ybarra spent her first two years at Arizona State University. A friend told her about Saint Mary's, she looked into it and decided to apply. 
"In order to help others I needed to learn," Ybarra said. While at Saint Mary's, Ybarra participated in student 
activities. She was a govern­ment major and intended to go to law school. Her senior year she received a internship at Notre Dame Law School, which confirmed her interest in law. 
A professor told her to apply to a "dream school," a school that was within reach, and a school that she could definitely get into. She applied to Har­vard, Notre Dame, and two smaller colleges in Arizona, she got accepted to all of them. Ybarra felt a great deal of loy­alty to Notre Dame, however her choice was Harvard. 
"I felt a really strong respon­sibility to lay the path, not only for Saint Mary's women, but for Hispanic women," Ybarra said. "What I gained there was access and lots of open doors." 
After graduating from Har­vard she was offered two jobs in Washington D.C., declining both of them. Ybarra returned home seeking a career in poli­tics. Soon after her return, she got married, and decided to have children. She put politics off to the side and worked in a small firm in Arizona. 
Ybarra said she was getting impatient waiting for her chance in the courtroom, so she transferred to a U.S State Attorney. After a year of prac­ticing law she switched to the drug enforcement department. 
At the time Ybarra was in her late twenties, married and a woman. Three things not in her favor at a male dominating agency. She was on call for four years 24 hours a day. 
"They all didn't look like Don Johnson," Ybarra said, " but some of them did." 
In 1984, she began applying for a judicial position. It was necessary to have practiced law for five years and to be over the age of thirty. Ybarra barely made both of the requirements. 
She applied six times and was asked to be interviewed three out of the six. 
" I was too young, too brown, and too pregnant," said Ybarra in response to her first inter­view. 
She was asked whether she was planning to have any more children and if she could han­dle being not only a judge but also a wife and mother. Her favorite question was "who is going to take care of your hus­band?" 

She said she could have easily accused them of discrimination, considering they could not ask male applicants these ques­tions, but she decided to answer wisely. 
"I could not say how dare you ask those questions, even though I wanted to," she said. 
On October 18, she was the youngest judge ever to be ap­pointed, in addition, she was eight in a half months preg­nant. Three weeks later she was sworn in, she served six years on the bench. 
Ybarra dealt with all kinds of law, including criminal and domestic relations, she said. 
One night she went out to dinner with her children, and began to explain her schedule of the week. Her oldest son replied, "Your the only mother that doesn't piqk us up at school." 

Service benefits students, community 
By KATIE CAPUTO Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
Post-graduate volunteer work can help students make the transition from college to the professional world, according to Bethany Gibbs, the recruit­ment coordinator for Notre Dame Mission Volunteer Pro­gram. 
"I think it's important to re­late to students that they can benefit from a volunteer pro­gram both personally and pro­fessionally as a transition from college," said Gibbs, a 1992 graduate from Trinity College in Washington D.C. 
Gibbs has been on the cam­puses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's since last Thursday talk­ing about her experience as a case manager at a homeless shelter in Lowell, Mass. 
Volunteering is a very educa­tional experience, and an awakening for those who have been sheltered from the harsh realities of the real world, ac­cording to Gibbs. Similarily, there is a really strong commit­ment by the students to com­munity service and an interest in post-graduate volunteer work. 
"I am so impressed by the number of students who are interested in volunterism," Gibbs said. 
Volunteering is a way to practice faith in a concrete and lively way, according to Sister Betty Smoyer, a campus minis­ter at Saint Mary's. · 

"A particular benefit is the chance to live together with men and women in a commu­nity that is spiritually based," Smoyer said. 
Gibbs visited the campus to invite the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities to offer their gifts, talents,, and services to people in need,i according to Smoyer. 
"It flows from the very heart of the mission of Catholic col­leges and universities," Smoyer said. 
Students can get more in­formation about the program through contacting Sister Betty at Saint Mary's Carr.YJus Min­istry, or by writing to t. 'l Notre Dame Mission Voluntevr Pro­gram. 
page 3 
SECURITY BRIEF 

FRIDAY; OCT.15 
11;15 a.m. A Farley Hall res­ident was ticketed for altering a temporary pass. 
3:15 p;m. Two food services employees reported the theft o two wallets from a locker in the South Dining Hall. 
3:47 . p.m. A flischer Graduate Housing resident reported the theft of his bike tires while the bike was parked at the Galvin Life Science Center bike rack. 
4:46 p,m. A Carroll Hall resi· dent reported .the theft of }lis license plate from his velii.cle while. parked in the D06 park­ing lot. 
7 p.m. Security responded to a two vehicle traffic accident at the University Village parking lot. There were no injuries reported. 
SATURPAY, OCT. 16 
12:tfj a..m., A· Pangborn· Hall resident reported a window broken out in the third floor restroom. 
3:34 a~m. Three St. Edward's Hall residents were apprehended by Security while attempting to take . a . haJ1{licap sign.•...... > . . . · , 
11:47 a.m. An Off-campus student was ticketed .for alter· ing a fumporary pass. 
12:35 p;m. A Dillon Hall res­ident.reported the theft· of.the front wheel fr9m his biCycle while parked in the courtyard ofQillon Hall. 
1;3!) p.m. A Walsh H.all resi· dent reported the theft of her bicyCle while parked in the Walsh hall bike rack. 
8:29p.m. Security respond­ed to a fir,e alarm at Stepan Chemistry Halt 
SUNDAY, OCT.l7 ·..·.··•·•··.•
1:33 p.m. A Sorin Hallresi· dent reported the theft of a money clip from his desk drawer. The room was unlocked and unattended at the time of the theft. 
3 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resid~nt reported the tbett o cash from his wallet while. it was left unattended in tht.i tele· vision room of St. Edward's Hall. 


Tuesday, October 19, 1993 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Health 
continued from page 1 
employees chose to accept its health plan. 
The University's current package is a flexible benefit program that offers four in­surance packages, allowing for employees to choose the best health insurance program for single or family needs, said to Mullins. Faculty and staff may choose from two HMO (health management organization) options, a combined $300 sin­gle and $600 family deductible program, and a combined $600 single and $1200 family deductible program. 
Notre Dame is self-insured, meaning that it uses an insur­ance company purely as a third party administrator to pay claims according to the Uni­versity's benefit design. 
Due to its size, it is most ben­eficial for the University to be self-insured. as it grants both the participant and the employ­er more flexibility in benefit programs, said Mullins. Notre Dame is the largest employer in the area, and as so can negoti-
Founder 
continued from page 1 
Alumnae Association is impor­tant for the furthering of our school," said Sanford, who has had many relatives attend Saint Mary's. "We need to under­stand where we came from and where we need to go." 
Today's festivities will give students and faculty the oppor­tunity to do so, as they will fo-



Haitian military refuses to yeild 
Army rejects U.N. deadline; embargo begins 

Exceeding Expectations 
r 
f r 
l ~ 
' 
ate most preferred rates because of its self-insured sta­tus, he said. But, effective Jan. 1994, the University will modify its employee coverage offer­ings. 
The reasons for this change are to be in a better position to be responsive to the national changes coming with Clinton's plan, to ensure maintenance of a quality program, and to stabi­lize the cost of insurance, said Mullins. Under the new plan, the University will offer a choice of an implemented PPO (preferred provider program) with the option of the previous two deductible choices or a partners HMO program, according to Mullins. 
According to both plans, employees also have the option to not accept coverage. 
PPO membership entitles members to choose care from a list of doctors and to pay for single services as according to the choice of deductibles, ac­cording to Betson. But, HMO membership requires members to choose a primary physician for health management. Under an liMO , doctors are not paid for each service, but instead paid one flat fee, he said. 
cus on the history and origins of Saint Mary's. 
"It is a neat thing to see where our roots are, and to understand how we differ from Notre Dame," said Kiley Coble, senior class representative to the Student Alumnae Associa­tion. 
Students will also be able to learn about the joint efforts of Mother Angela Gillespie and Fr. Edward Sorin to make Saint Mary's College the institution that it is today. 

By DAVID BEARD 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE 
Haiti's military early Tuesday defied a midnight deadline to yield power and belittled a U.N. arms and oil embargo. Its right­wing supporters threatened that any American invaders will go home "in bags." 
Rightists mixed threats against the outside world with gifts of chrysanthemums to for­eign reporters, while Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the army strong­man, suggested new talks on his departure. 
"I think the solution is in dia­logue. Dialogue must lead us to national reconciliation," Cedras told "McNeil-Lehrer New­sHour" on the Public Broad­casting System hours before the sanctions took effect. 
The United States also backs a compromise but one within the existing U.N. plan. U.S. Ambassador William Swing said Monday night that the U.S. would urge the Haitian parlia­ment consider a general amnesty law for soldiers who committed crimes after the 1991 coup that ousted Haiti's president. 
Ousted President Jean-Ber­trande Aristide had made an amnesty decree but Cedras said such an order could be revoked at any time. 
Cedras told TV reporters that the United States should not try to reinstall Aristide by force. 

Haiti roundup ---­
Presi~ent Clinton s.lapped new sanctions Monday on military and police leaders ~e sa1d were blockmg th~ return of democracy to Haiti. Clinton also vowed to .strongly oppose" efforts 10 Congress to restrict his ability to send troops to the 1sland nation. 
Sanctions ...__________________, 
Sanctions to be imposed at11 :59 p.m. EDT Monday if Haiti's leaders defy 
Umted Nations agreement: 

• 
Ban ?n supply of petroleum o~ petroleum products to Haiti, excluding small quant1t1es for use ~n cook1ng or essential humanitarian needs." 

• 
Ban on supply of weapons and ammunition. 

• 
Ban on supply of military vehicles, equipment and spare parts. 

• 
Ban on supply of police equipment and spare parts. 

• 
Freeze of assets abroad of Haiti's de facto authorities or '1heir agents." 


Chronology 
Sept. 30, 1991: Military overthrows and exiles elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. June 23, 1993: Aworldwide oil embargo and assets freeze, authorized by the U.N. Security Council, takes effect. July 3: Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras, army commander, agrees to a plan for Aristide's Oct. 30 return. Aug. 27: U.N. Security Council suspends oil embargo. Oct. 11: U.S. warship Harlan County carries nearly 200 American troops to prepare for scheduled return of Aristide. The ship Is turned back. Oct. 13: The U.N. Security Council votes to impose oil and arms embargo and freeze selected Haitian assets overseas if the plan for returning Aristide does not go forward by midnight Oct. 18. Oct. 14: Justice Minister Guy Malary, his driver and security guard assassinated. Oct. 15: U.N. personnel begin evacuation of Haiti. 
U.S. naval station could be the staging area for an evacuation 

SO miles 
of the roughly 1,000 Ameri­

~ 
SOkm
cans in Haiti. 



EVENT: 

Audit and Tax Software Demonstration 
DATE: 

Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
LOCATION: 
Monogram Room (Joyce AtMetic {<?Convocation Center) 
TIME: 

3:30p.m. to 6:00p.m. 
EVENT: 

Reception For Interviewing Students 
DATE: 

Wednesday, October 20, 1993 
LOCATION: 
Monogram Room ljoyce AtMetic {<? Conuocation Center) 
TIME: 

7:00p.m. to 9:00p.m. 
~t De/oitte & Touche, our mission is clear: To be the professional services /irm that consistently exceeds the expectations o/our clients and our people. 
For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. 




Deloitte &

So why not join a /irm that will exceed your expectations? 
Please Stop By and See Us! Touche 
We L 1 s t e n We D e 1 1 v e r . 
Accounting, Tax, and Consulling Services
Deloitte Toucbe Tol1matsu International 

------------------~----------.--------------------------------------------~-----------­
Tuesday, October 19,1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Peacekee]?ers fire warning shots in four unrelated incidents 
By MICHELLE FAUL Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
U.S. soldiers fired at an armed group that approached their base Monday. and U.N. troops fired warning shots in three other skirmishes as a nine-day lull in fighting ap­peared to fray. 
There were no signs the inci­dents were related. Isolated grenade, mortar and gunfire attacks over the past week or so have been tied to clans fight­ing in Mogadishu and have not appeared aimed at the multi­national peacekeeping force. 
This port on the Indian Ocean had been at its quietest in four years since militiamen of war­lord Mohamed Farrah Aidid shot down two helicopters in a battle that killed 18 American soldiers Oct. 3. Aidid spokes­men said more than 300 Soma­lis died. 
Outrage in the United States over the toll persuaded Presi­dent Clinton to choose diplo­macy over military force. Aidid called a cease-fire last week and released an American pilot and a Nigerian peacekeeper he was holding hostage. 
A U.N. spokeswoman, Capt. Dawn Kilpatrick, said no one was injured when American troops opened fire as 10 armed Somalis approached their "Sword Base" in southwestern Mogadishu. 

"They fired warning shots, and the Somalis ...all fled," she said. 
But journalists said up to four Somali men who appeared to have been wounded in the inci­dent were being treated at Be­nadir Hospital. 
Kilpatrick said she had no re­ports of casualties. 
Monday morning, Turkish soldiers guarding an entrance to the U.N. compound in south­ern Mogadishu fired into the air when people started throwing stones at them, she said. The crowd dispersed and there were no casualties. 
Earlier in the day, a Somali tried to sneak into the U.N. compound through barbed wire. He fled when peacekeep­ers fired over his head, Kil­patrick said. Soon after, an­other Somali tried to sneak in at another part of the com­pound, with the same result. 
Kilpatrick said a mortar round fired from near the southern neighborhood of Med­ina exploded Sunday night near the national stadium. No U.N. troops were in the area and there was no word on casual­ties, she said. 
The peacekeeping force stopped ground patrols and cordon-and-search exercises to round up weapons after a land mine was discovered last month on the main 21 October Road at the perimeter of the city. 
Military convoys in Aidid-con­trolled southern Mogadishu have been limited to essential missions since Oct. 3. 
Instead, the United Nations has stepped up aerial surveil­lance by U.S. helicopters equipped with radar and night­vision devices. 
A group of U.S. reporters based with U.S. military per­sonnel in Mogadishu was dis­solved over the weekend. 



Merrill Lynch 
cordially invites you to an Information Session on Thursday, October 21, 1993 at 6:30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Room Lafortune Student Center Representatives will attend from: Investment Banking Reception to follow We are an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
----~ -~--~ 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 19, 1993 
CS First Boston, a leading global investment banking firm headquar­tered in New York, will be recruiting for its financial analyst program. Positions are available in the Invest­ment Banking Department. All Seniors are cordially invited to attend a presentation. 
Presentation: 
Tuesday, October 19, 1993 The Alumni Room Morris Inn 7:00p.m. 

-.­
_...._
--.... , 
-.. .... 

Investment 


Banking Opportunities 
at 
CS First Boston 

Interviewing Schedule: 
January 27, 1994 


For further information and inquiries, please contact: 
AndyWeas 
Investment Banking 
( 312) 750-3102 
ft:l~ CS FIRST BosToN 
~------~-------------------------~---~---~ 
~--------------~--~--­





BUSINESS 
Tuesday, October 19, 1993 page 7 
NAFTA lobbying 
•

continues 
By JIM DRINKARD Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
After a painfully slow silart, President Clinton's sales pitch on the North American Free Trade Agreement is beginning to attract a few customers, lured in part by old-fashioned political horse trading. 
Deals are in the works aimed at satisfying the worries of law­makers in Florida and e·lse­where in the South who worry about the trade pact's impact on the sugar and citrus indus­tries. The same is true for upper Midwesterners concerned about the effect on wheat farm­ers. 
But the trading may not stop there. The White House appears ready to promise rewards such as highways and bridges to members whose support is seen as crucial, one Democratic law­maker said. 
"The store is open as far as the White House is concerned," is how one congressional official on the pro-NAFTA team put it. The White House is willing to look at any member's legitimate problem, says another NAFTA promoter. 
Both spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
A vote in the House, where the agreement will be the hardest to pass. has been set for Nov. 
17. Vote counters on both sides say only about 50 or 60 Democratic lawmakers remain truly undecided, and the agree­ment's proponents must win a heavy majority of those to amass the 218 votes needed to prevail. 
"A whole flurry of members are now willing to listen," said Rep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M., who is helping organize pro­NAFTA forces. "But the move­ment is slow in terms of people committing." 
Since Oct. 1, Clinton has per­sonally approached 91 House members on the subject, Richardson said. Seven Democrats pledged their votes last week after talking to the president, he said. 
An early blitz by organized la­bor, which strongly opposes NAFTA, left supporters at a dis­advantage. Labor concentrated on getting lawmakers to make public commitments against the pact, which would creahl the world's largest free trading bloc among the United States, Mexico and Canada. 
Daily market roundup 


Newspaper industry in danger of extinction 
By PANCHO LOZANO 
Business Editor 
Sophistication of technology along with the rising expansion of the information superhigh­way has left many mass media carriers dumbfounded about their future status, according to Richard Ciccone, managing ed­itor for the Chicago Tribune. 
The newspaper industry is one of these carriers which must change their format in order to survive in the elec­tronic age of media, Ciccone said last night at a dinner spon­sored by the Society of Professional Journalists. 
The increase in accessibility of electronic news to the gen­eral public will force newspa­pers to abandon their reliance on advertisers and circulation as their main motive for sales and focus on what the reader wants, he said. This trend may lead to "tailored newspapers," centering the focus of the paper on one central section. 
The current lack of a central focus has caused an enormous loss of circulation and a loss of advertising, according to Ciccone. 
Past high prices paid by ad­vertisers based on circulation numbers will no longer exist, he said. A drop of circulation has resulted in advertisers turning to methods such as di­rect mail in order to reach their target market more quickly and efficiently. 
"While one hundred year-old companies such as Peacock (Jewelers, Inc. in Chicago) fold­ed because they couldn't con­tinue their newspaper ad­vertising, Advo, a direct mailing company was taking accounts and was increasing retailer revenues by one hundred and ten percent, while charging four times as much as newspa­pers," said Ciccone. 
The only manner that adver­tisers will stay with newspapers is by keeping the readers in­terested in the newspapers, ac­cording to Ciccone. For exam­ple, a central section which keeps everything grouped to­gether could be the key in the future. 
"We(the newspapers) will have to ask the readers want they want," commented Ciccone. "'Do you want art or do you want stats on the Notre Dame football game?' We'll give you the package if you want it." 
Ciccone said that these "tai­lored newspapers" could cut costs by concentrating infor­mation and allowing papers to charge a minimal amount to advertisers. 
"There must be a clear defi­nition of reader interest for the advertisers to reinvest in news­papers,"he added. 
Tailored newspapers must consist of high and low point 

'Hedging' tax break could cost treasury billions 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Internal Revenue Service agreed to a tax break for busi­nesses Monday that could cost the government billions of dol­lars in revenue. 
The decision, likely to affect the smallest family farm and the largest corporation, re­verses the IRS position on the tax treatment of hedges ­transactions used by businesses to protect themselves from fluc­tuations in interest rates, for­eign currencies and commodity prices. 
Faced with an unfavorable and unanimous U.S. Tax Court ruling in June, the IRS said it is abandoning a five-year-old po­sition that prevented busi­nesses from fully writing off the losses of many hedging trans­actions. 
The decision resolves poten­tially hundreds of disputes be­tween the IRS and businesses and reduces potential tax collections by billions of dol­lars. 
"This is an issue that cuts from the smallest business to family farms, all the way up to the largest corporation in America," said a senior Treasury Department official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
Effective immediately, losses from most common business hedges will be deducted from ordinary income, rather than considered a capital loss. 
Following a 1988 Supreme Court ruling, known as the Arkansas Best decision, the IRS allowed taxpayers to use losses from hedges only as an offset to capital gains. If a business had no capital gains, then it could not deduct the loss on its hedges. 
Many businesses use hedges, such as futures contracts, to protect themselves from mar­ket fluctuations. A bank with loans abroad may use a hedge against swings in foreign cur­rency exchange rates. A farmer can use a hedge to lock in the price of wheat three months before harvest. 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 
3675 3625 3575 3525 3475 3425 3375 

10/1/93 11/1/93 
journalism, according to Ciccone. The question of infor­mation versus entertainment will be the key in choosing what the reader wants. 
"When scanning the high and low ends of journalism, some­where in the middle is where you define entertainment," he said. 
In terms of low end journal­ism, Ciccone said that an em­phasis must be put on inform­ing communities of what is happening in their local areas. If newspapers don't take on this responsibility, small sub­urban publications will destroy local editions of large conglom­erates. 
Low end journalism must concentrate on daily life, things such as the lunch room menu and little league games, said Ciccone 
"These stories-like the open­ing of a new supermarket-are the ones that are helping peo­ple get through their lives," he explained. 
The definition of high end journalism is not necessarily what one sees in the New York Times, according to Ciccone, but rather consists of any high quality piece of writing. 
"A two part series on justice in Northern Ireland is going to be much more valuable than running an eight-inch story on nuclear weapons in China ev­eryday," said Ciccone. 
Quality stories is what will make newspapers differ from electronic media in the future and restore their credibility, he added. 
He also stated that since news has such a high turnover date from day to day, pieces will have to be much more in­depth with their coverage. If this is successful with readers, news will be able to be recycled and used differently. 
Demands on reporters will be more challenging, but much more great and rewarding, he said. Reporters will no longer get paid for sitting in the state legislature everyday and send­ing in a one page summary of the daily activities. 
"In order to keep the reader's interest, and concentrate our information, newspapers will have to cut costs and make more sacrifices in terms of what goes in and what doesn't," said Ciccone. 
As a result of these trends, Ciccone said he believes that newspapers won't look like they do now, but rather like Time or The Economist-more condensed and specific. 
Newspapers will always ex­ists, he said, just in a different format. 
"There will always be written words because we will always read, no matter what. It's just a matter of giving them interest­ing things to read," Ciccone said. 

Prime rate lowered 
By MARY BETH SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
One of the nation's largest banks lowered its prime lend­ing rate a half-percentage point to 5.5 percent Monday, bring­ing the widely watched rate to its lowest level in more than two decades. 
Other major U.S. banks didn't immediately follow Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.'s lead, but analysts expected they would. However, many analysts said they doubted the rate cut would nudge debt-weary con­sumers and businesses to take out more loans, and in turn spur the economy. 
The prime rate is used to cal­culate the interest on loans to small-and medium-sized busi­nesses. It also affeCts some con­sumer loans, especially home­equity loans and credit cards. 
"People have been interested in paying down debt" rather than increasing it, said Raphael Soifer, a banking analyst at Brown Brothers, Harriman & Co. 
The rate cut could actually hurt some consumers, if it prompts banks to lower the in­terest paid on deposits. Bob Heady, publisher of the Bank Rate Monitor newsletter, said he expected rates on short­term deposits to drop by .15 to .20 percentage points in com­ing weeks. 
While other interest rates have fallen dramatically, banks had been slow to drop the prime. They reasoned that due to the slow economy, they wouldn't be able to make enough new loans to compen­sate for their decreased profit on each loan. 
In addition, banks worried until recently that inflation could pick up and prompt the Federal Reserve to raise short­term interest rates. 
Morgan Guaranty said in a statement Monday that it acted after considering loan demand, the banks' cheap cost of funds and the outlook for continued low inflation. 
Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago, a medium­sized regional institution, and the Bank of Montreal's U.S. of­fice copied Morgan's step, but no other big banks took im­mediate action. 

1'--'1 1...  .,.  
F"  \1  \.  _A..,./  
iU\1"\ !"'"  \.I"  
I "'  


7/1/93 8/1/93 9/1/93 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Hero man Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spon. Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of drhcr instimrion. The nc:ws is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majuriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spor!S Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcnrarics, letters md Inside Columns presc:m the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Vi<"Wpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aJI readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Business Offia: 631-5313 Sports 631-4543 News/Photo 631-5323 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Systems/OTS  631-8839  
Office Manager  631-7471  


Does legislation affect our social values? 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to William McDonald's letter, "Alcohol Awareness Week is purely a Puritan propaganda ploy," the Observer, October 14. 
While a few of McDonald's points are sound, he takes oth­ers to an unfortunate extreme, and ends up laying too much 
blame  in  too  many  places  
where  it  simply  does  not  
belong.  

His recurring emphasis is Puritan Fundamentalism, which he writes is lobbying not just against drinking ir­responsibly, but drinking alto­gether. My question is, is this really a bad thing? Personally, I do not drink. which will proba­bly discredit me in the eyes of some. I did not write this, how­ever, to damn drinking. 
The vast majority of the alco­hol consumption I see on this campus is, in fact, responsible, and I have great deal of respect for those students like McDonald who know their lim­its. But abstinence from alcohol should not be played off as something bad. Both drinking intelligently and not drinking at 
DOONESBURY 
all are sensible options, and there is nothing wrong with either. 
The purpose of Alcohol Awareness Week is inherent in its name, and the very fact that his letter was written shows that it is serving that purpose: informing people of the dangers of excessive alcohol consump­tion. If these "Puritans" wish to condemn drinking altogether, that is their prerogative, and they should not be chastised for that decision, just as McDonald should not be chastised for choosing to drink responsibly. 
To blame these Puritans for the problems of excessive drinking, however, is overstep­ping the bounds. 
His contention that they force underage drinkers to do so "in secret" is ludicrous at best. First of all, those who are underage are technically breaking the law by drinking at all. So if SUDS officers raid par­ties and issue tickets, then they are justified in doing so. 
Underage drinkers take that risk by "hoisting their mugs" in the first place. Secondly, to reit­erate, why is not drinking at all not an option? I'm sure there is a contingent of dry students like me who get along just line without booze. 
He also asserts that the gov­ernment should lower the legal drinking age. This is a complex issue. Congress probably sees the huge problem that under­age drinking is across the coun­try, and not just the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, where it might not be as severe. 
Consequently, Congress is reluctant to equip those who have already demonstrated irresponsibility with such a powerful implement of destruc­tion. 
McDonald's views should be respected, and for many, his attitude toward drinking should be emulated. However, his uni­versal damnation of alcohol abstinence may be disagreed with. 
Drinking can cause alco­holism, violence, rape and death. That is the intended focus of this Week. We are all entitled to our opinions on the issue. But we all should be Aware. 
CRAIG PINZA St. Edward's Hall Dear Editor: 
In an article headlined "Statement supports gays, les­bians and bisexuals," (The Observer, Oct. 14) Father Richard Warner is quoted as saying that "legislation doesn't change bias, and petitions don't change harassment." 
If in fact he said this, it is quite discouraging. Has he not spoken with any African Americans about the legislation passed during the 50's and 60's that both proscribed statutory racism and emboldened American blacks to ask for their fair share of the American pie? 
Has he not spoken with Father Ollie Williams about the effect of economic embargoes on South African racism? 
Has he forgotten why the American Catholic bishops deep-sixed their attempt to articulate the place of women in the Catholic church? 
Has he forgotten that his grandparents' generation did not think that American women should be able to vote, and that legislation caused the change from their generation to ours? 

Another way to show the odd­ness of Warner's reasoning is to turn it around. Is it true, for instance, that legislation designed to oppress American blacks would have no effect on racism? 
Is it true that legislation designed to promote abortion would have no effect on peo­ple's biases towards the unborn? 
Is it true that legislation designed to suppress Catholicism in the United States would have no effect on non­Catholics' biases towards Catholics? 
Is it true that legislation designed to promote rape would have no effect on women? 
If Warner thinks that legisla­tion has no effect on social atti­tudes, would he support these types of bills? 
Isn't the whole point of legis­lation to express our institu­tional and social values? If so, then how can it not have an effect on those values? 
KERN TREMBATH Department ofTheology 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"It's something, it's alive, it's an animal, it's human, it's my mother-in-law." 
Dr. Ralph Mcinerny Professor 

Tuesday, October 19, 1993 page9
VIEWPOINT 

Two 'mediocre' pieces condone homosexuality 

ently Bowers and the four other ily itself, and to affirm both is to ever preconceived notions we 
ND professors do not, that "iif it contradict oneself absolutely. may have about (homosexu­is a wrong, he cannot say peo­When St. Aquinas speaks of als)". Once again the theme of 
ple have a right to do a wrong." the sin against all nature, not the "Notre Dame Family" is What the published state­just human nature, he speaks trotted out. ment asks us to do is support of unisexual lust which he calls She is not "attempting to gen­the right to do a wrong. It is, the "unnatural crime" eralize about men, about homo­therefore, a "statement about (Q.94.Art.3), "contrary to sexu­sexuals, or about anyone"morality" despite Bower's al intercourse, which is natural though we live in a "homopho­protestations to the contrary. to all animals, is unisexual lust, bic world" of gaybashing" byI find it fascinating that which has received the special people attempting to "cover upProfessor Phelps uttered the name of the unnatural crime." or get rid of feelings that the words gay and lesbian in the That two "Fathers" would bashers themselves might have 
same breath as family, whatev­condone homosexuality is er its context. absolutely disgusting. It is the Aristotle, the classical source blunder worse than the crime. 'sexual intercourse is for natural law, pointed out in One would suppose that a 
supposed to be
his Politics that the most funda­"Catholic" college, and espe­mental unit of nature is the cially its priests, would follow kept in the confines of 
household, which consists of a Rome in these matters, and the 
marriage.'
man, woman, and eventually papacy has been unequivocal in their natural children. A real its condemnation of homosexu­family -a family consistent with ality. nature -requires a male and While I do not advocate vio­some homosexual tendencies". female, without which their can lence against homosexuals, or I have several comments be no procreation. harassment, they should not be though.To be sure, by artificial recognized in any way as a The first is that because I means (i.e. adoption or artificial legitimate minority. Through think homosexuality is unnatur­
insemination) a "family" can be their these "fathers" have evi­al and disgusting, it does not devise, but they do not arise out denced a blindness to the very mean that I fear them. I have a of the natural course of grounds of natural law, and natural revulsion at people who nature's providence, but are thereby the grounds for the molest little children, but it "artifacts", or "man-made". authority of the Church in all does not follow that I fear 
The legitimization of moral matters. pedophiles or fear to become homosexuality is the denial of As for Dunne's piece, she one myself.
the natural ground for the fam-wants to "re-examine(e) what-Also, "homophobia" is a 
Catholicism does not exhaust Christianity 
Dear Editor: But priests on campus not only masculine pronouns? How In Campus Ministry's adver­condone Protestants receiving often can references to the tisement (The Observer, Oct. communion, but actually ask Father Almighty be dodged 
14) concerning the centrality of hesitant ones to receive. with an 'Abba' or omitted? the Eucharist to Notre Dame's Another area of inconsistency In conclusion, I think that spirituality, Father Tom has to do with the language of many disaffected members of McDermott says "we must the campus community would watch for ways to make those feel more welcome at worship if who feel distanced from our ' 1s the Mass a meal we worship leaders embrace piety more welcome into its Catholic worship as Catholic.
share to exclusion of a 
sweetness." First, recognize that the
sacrifice we offer?'
I think that the chief part of Catholic Church does not this task would be accom­exhaust the Christian church. plished by something that the liturgy. The pope and the The Eucharist is at the heart McDermott mentioned: making bishops teach us one thing: of Notre Dame, but there are our prayer honest. I believe while the priest is free to use other organs besides the heart, that public prayer and liturgy his own words at certain points and Catholics could welcome at Notre Dame and St. Mary's in the liturgy and has choices of others as full partners if we lack consistency and candor. prayers at others, the priest explore other forms of public 
One area of inconsistency has should not change the words of prayer besides the Mass. to do with the reception of com­prayers such as the Creed, the Second, recognize that the munion itself. Should non­Eucharistic prayer, etc. Catholic church is Christian, Catholics receive communion at While I accept and even enjoy worshipping a God whose self­mass? Our CCD classes and (as Catholic prayers as altered for disclosure to the human race printed in the missalettes) the use at a Protestant service, culminated in Jesus, true God bishops of the United States when in Rome I want to do as and indisputably true male teach us one thing: aside from the Roman Catholics do. Yet human. Prayers and homilies members of the Orthodox often priests on campus alter whose spirituality relies little church, non-Catholics should the words, beyond just a 'broth­on the landmarks of salvation not receive, because joint com­ers and sisters' type of gender history leave many listeners­munion would imply a unity in inclusion. Catholic and otherwise-feeling faith that isn't there. Is the Mass a meal we share bereft of the meat and even the 
Many Protestants might dis­to the exclusion of a sacrifice baby-milk of the faith. 
agree with the reasoning, but we offer? How many times will BARBARA BALLAST¥ 
Philosophy Graduate Student 

would respect Catholic wishes. 'God' be inserted to replace 
neologism and misnomer. out, what goes for the hetero­According to the proper rules of sexual goes for the homosexual 
English, "homophobia" should and vice versa. Thus to remain mean the fear of sameness logically inconsistent, we would which is a salutary fear. It is, have to affirm the morality of 
like many other terms, an the non-marital sex for hetero­attempt by liberal's to refine sexuals. reality by ignoring nature. The legitimization of 
Besides this, Dunne provides homosexuality is nothing less an absolutely incomprehensible than the attempt to "liberate" method of interpreting the people from the demands of Bible. She claims that, "I do moral virtue as an indispens­not contend that it has lost its able ground for their happi­(the Bible) validity. I do firmly ness. believe that we must interpret Both articles were banal, it in light of the twentieth cen­trite, and unprofound. Not sur­tury, just as we do with other prising considering the issue 
ancient writings." Sorry, which they attempt to defend. Dunne, but a philologist you According Kristen Dunne, any­aren't. What does it mean to one who thinks homosexuality interpret an ancient text in is disgusting is a closet, "light of the twentieth cen­repressed homosexual. tury''? Whose twentieth centu­Gee whiz, what happened to 
ry? According to modern the Oedipus complex? Do all of Communism whose premises us screwed-up heterosexual are set out in the Communist guys lust after both our moth­Manifesto? Or should we go ers and other guys? So we are 
with the trendy deconstruction­really closet incestual bisexu­ists? Postmodern? Classical? als? Spare us the psycho-bib­
Besides this, what would it hie-babble Dunne. For trying 
mean to understand, say, not to generalize about men Plato's Republic in such a man­and heterosexuals, you have ner? That we would under­done nothing but. stand Plato better than he understood himself? It would 
ANDREW FESKE seem strange that I, a mere law Law Student 
Reader 'sick and tired' of condescension toward legacies 
Dear Editor, dren of wealthy parents, we did 
I'm sick and tired of people no work in high school which like Andrew DeKever (The warranted admission to this Observer, Oct. 15) insulting me University, and therefore he is just because my father gradu­more worthy to be here than 
ated from Notre Dame. He and are we. This view is appallingly 
others with this view seem to ignorant. 
think I just walked into the I'm not one to flaunt my high 
Admissions Office, showed school achievements, but I'm 
them a copy of my father' s proud enough of what I accom­
diploma, and registered for plished that I'll pit my qualifi­
classes. cations against anyone's any 
His remarks make apparent time they want. 
his belief that just because WILLIAM SIEGER 
some of us are legacies or chil-Alumni Hall 

ACCENT 
page 10 Tuesday, October 19, 1993 
Making Intelligent Choices 
well as guidelines for respon­sible use.

Office ofAlcohol and Drug 
The second goal of the office is also the one that gets the

Education encourages students most attention. As any Notre Dame student knows, the Office
to be responsible when drinking of Drug and Alcohol Education 
By MAIT FOLEY 
Accent Writer 
Unless you've been asleep or dead this week, you probably know that there is an office on campus concerned with educat­ing us about alcohol and its effects on our lives. The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, perched in the Mezzanine Level of the LaFortune Student Center, is charged with just this task. 
A Shaky Beginning 

T
he office evolved from the University Counseling Center's desire to better meet the needs of the student population. The department was designed to address the need for education and awareness about alcohol in the community, according to Sally Coleman, a psychologist at the University Counseling Center. 
As a corrollary to that mis­sion, the Office also handles in­takes-the initial evaluations about a student and their rela­tion to alcohol-to remove some of the burden from the University Counseling Center. 
A breakthrough occurred in 1987. when the center emerged with its goal to educate and help people. However, the cen­ter soon faced rough waters when the original director died early on in the process of establishing the center. Then another director took over and died, and in the interim, the original secretary also passed away. 
To rectify the situation, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education closed for the sum­mer of 1991. They moved to the current location in the Mezzanine Level on the north side of LaFortune. In the wake of the deaths, staff changes inevitably took effect. 
Mark Pogue took over the director position in September 1991 at the renewed Office and began the slow process of mak­ing the campus aware of this resource. 
The first year, a few students appeared in the office, but most of the work remained focused on publicity efforts to make the office a viable member of the Notre Dame community. The second year brought more of the same, with a little more recognition but still a fairly small clientele. 
DRUNK DRIVING Compiled by Susan McGovern  
• Drinking was a factor in 15,777 fatal crashes in 1992. In South Bend, alcohol was involved in four out of the six traffic fatalities last year. • The average blood alcohol content of drivers pulled over for DUI is .18. • In 1989, 2,709 people age 15-24 were injured in alcohol related crashes in Indiana. • In 1990, alcohol related traffic accidents cost $46 bil· lion. Each fatal crash cost an average of $800,000 and $14,550 per nonfatal crash. Medical costs and property damage alone accounted for $37 billion. • For every age between 6 and 33, traffic crashes are the greatest single cause of death. Alcohol is involved in 45.1% of fatal accidents. • Each alcohol related crash costs an average of 37 years of a person's life. Alcohol related crashes in one year account for 600,000 years of potential life lost. • Everyone convicted of drunk driving in St. Joseph's County serves time in jail. Information courtesy of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education  

'Challenging Students' 

A
s any organization takes on the personali­ty of its leader, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education revolves around Mark Pogue. In coming to Notre Dame, he brings the experience of directing the Alcohol-Drug Information Center at Indiana University, his alma mater. He entered this line of work because he "always wanted to be in a posi­tion to help people," and he likes "working with students and young people." 
His greatest satisfaction comes from "helping people get out of a jam, or keeping them from getting into a jam." He also enjoys "challenging stu­dents and being challenged by them." 
Pogue is optimistic about the response of the student body to the efforts of his office. He feels there is "a growing number who don't need alcohol to have a good time." But of course, there's still room for improve­ment. 
"We need more things to do," Pogue said. "But we are start­ing to do things where alcohol isn't the focus." 
Cultural Corner 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON Assistant Accent Editor 

One goal of the Snite Museum's Education Department staff is to help students realize that the campus museum is theirs to learn from and enjoy. "Mercato Stripes," 1983, by Jeanette Pasin Sloan is a part of the Snite Museum's excit· ing collection. 
Sloan, born in 1946, is presently a resident of River Forest. Illinois and has be­come a major artist of con­temporary still-life painting. 
Although she received her Master in Fine Arts Degree from the University o Chicago, her real school was her kitchen, where she de­picted every object from the television to the air condi­tioner in minute detail. 
Her artwork expresses the personal growth Sloan experienced through mar­riage, motherhood and divorce. "I learned that rela­tionships are complicated and always changing-that a life must be recomposed con­tinuously. day by day. My work has grown to express these issues," she wrote. 
Still-life painting lost its popularity iu the beginning o the 20th century, but was re­vived in the 1960's and 70's with the creation of pop art and photo realism. Pop artists have little interest in the object as such but the presence of an object con­tains a social or political message. In photo realism the artist wants to achieve complete versimilitude and the emphasis lies in the appearances of the objects. 
Sloan's work parallels the aims of a photo realist as her distinctive subjects are mir· rored or highly polished sur­faces, such ·as those in "Mercato Stripes." 
Her still·lifes were made more interesting by the intro­duction of striped fabrics placed beneath the objects. The reflective surfaces act as mirrors which make complex optical distortions of the fab­rics. By doing this Sloan cre­ates a tension between real­ism and abstraction. 
Composing selected objects is Sloan's first step in creat­ing a painting. She then shoots approximately 40 to 35 mm transparencies that freeze the particular image at many specific points. 
The final painting is a com­posite of the varying perspec­tives, which she produces. 
Sloan takes objects which are simple and classic in de­sign and molds them into paintings which capture the spirit of everyday life. 
Now, two years after Pogue's arrival, the campus seems to be putting the resources available in the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education to good use. 

The Office now receives more attention from the com­munity, according to the Office's long-time secretary, Arleen Davis. "This year they call us, instead of the other way around," she said. 
remains vitally concerned with its main mission-to educate. 
Toward this end, the office offers several programs for the students designed to emphasize the dangers of abusing alcohol. These are designed to engage the students in a dialogue and facilitate good decision making about alcohol use. 
Finally, the third focus of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is the intake evalu­



From Referral to Education 

T
he branch of the Notre Dame community con­cerned with transmit­ting this message consists of four members: director Mark Pogue, secretary Arleen Davis, consultant Gina Kigar, and student assistant Sean Trimber. Together they strive to edu­cate the campus about the other side of alcohol-the side usually not seen in glamorous beer ads. In this effort, there are three specific goals in­volved in achieving awareness. First, the office provides a well-armed resource for people looking into topics pertaining to alcohol and its use. Pamphlets abound in and around the office, and all of the informa­tion is free for the taking. The office also provides each of the incoming freshmen with a per­sonal copy of the Daily Domer. a booklet with articles and sta­tistics showing the ramifi­cations of alcohol abuse, as 
tion. When students get in trouble with alcohol, they are referred to the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education by their rector, their friends, Student Affairs, or the courts. Typically, the student is in the office because of a flagrant first-time violation of the alco­hol policy or a second offense of the same policy. 
"The real problem is in stu­dents not thinking," said Pogue. "We just want to work with people on making better deci­sions." 
On the rare occasion that the student needs counseling for serious alcohol problems, the office refers that person to the University Counseling Center or to a counseling agency in their home area. 
In the future, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education hopes to make its services available to a wider audience with greater effectiveness. 
Events planned for the future include a DUI Awareness Month during December and future non-alcoholic alternative activities for the student body. 

Tuesday, October 19, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 287·4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 
2n-7406 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259·8684. 
Need Business Cards? -call Adworks 1-6756 LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY! I 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: J-Crew Bam jacket(Brown) It was lost in late Sept. Please con­tact Mike at 634-1166 with any information. 
LOST-BLUE POLO JACKET IN 
DE BARTOLO 102 FRIDAY A.M.­
HAS SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
CALL KIM X3518 
PLEASE OH PLEASE 
RETURN MY 10 ASAP! 
LOST:LINEBACKER 10/16 
IL USC AND NO 10 
CALL 273-6205 
WANTED 
GREEKS & CLUBS 
RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST ONE WEEK! For your fraternity, sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75. 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career employment available. No experi­ence necessary. For more informa­tion 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
We need a Kegirator. Interested in 
selling us one. Please give us a 
call. 234-2793 
--ROOMATE WANTED­
FOR SPRING SEMESTER '94 
@TURTLE CREEK, 5 MIN. FROM 
CAMPUS-CALL E0@273-9581 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 ext 31 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama, Daylona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK '941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE • PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
$5. 50/hr. Need 3-4 students to 
conduct telephone interviews 
between Oct. 25 and Nov. 5. 
Call Maureen 631-5n9, Center 
for Social Concerns. 
Babysitter wtd. for occas wkend & 
wknts. 232-5388 
IF YOU NEED A RIDE TO QUAD 
CITIES I IOWA CITY FOR FALL 
BREAK CALL KELLY X4270 
I desperately need a ride to St. 
Louis for fall break. I will help pay 
gas and tolls. Please call Tim at 
1462 
PIANO needed. If you have one to 
sell, please call Muriel: office 631­
5608, home 255-7961. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­Private. 257-9101 
Seeking rommate to share house. $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­FAST ALLIANCE-LOCAL & NOTRE DAME GUESTS. FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989. 24-HR. ANSWERING MACHINE. 
GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $210. EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE, BUS 232-8444. 
ROOM FOR RENT.CLEAN,FRN­SHD,CHARMING RMTS. 
259-0219 

Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­end 616-699-7137 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­able for parents on weekends. 219­291·2899. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daylona Room w/ Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386 
SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO NO VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT 284-5062 
FOR SALE: organic cornfed beef whole or half, raised in Noble County, Indiana and fed only pure corn, pasture grass, mineral salt with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins, and limestone-filtered well water. Custom aged and cut at Yoders in Shipshewana, and delivered to 
your door. $1.80 pound hanging 
weight, with $25 deposit. 291­
1797 .... ."your steak in the country" 
See DEPECHE MODE in Concert 
ROSEMONT HORIZON (Chicago) 
Fri. Oct. 29 
8pm 
3 Tix, Floor Seating 
Call Ry @4X1163 
1 Plane lckl. 
SB to Greenville/ 
Spartanberg, SC 
10/22 & back 
10/31 X2485 
Stereo for sale. 

If interested call4-2374 
STAMP COLLECTION-call KJ 
@ 232-7838 

NEED 2 USC TICKETS 
634-2856 EMILY 

Roundtrip Air SB to Newark 
Departs 10/23 Returns 10/31 
271-1512 $200 
2 FSU stud tixs 
best offer 
X2673 

STILL HAVE DEPECHE MODE TIX FOR OCT28 OR 29.GOOD PRICE. PLEASE BUY THEM! 259-0219 
TICKETS 
I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL 
TIXS.272-6306 

ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY 
HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL 
JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. 
NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 
I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General 
Adm. only. 

Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162, 
(W) 201-992-8700 Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at 273-1757 

USC Stud. Tckt. Best Offer Raghib 4-0505 

NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC & FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­6183. 
We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (800) 457-0486. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 
Need 2 USC GA's Will pay $100 ea 
x1868 

DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC 
GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT 
287-4561 AFTER 6 PM. 

92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1-800-7 49-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets 

WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR 
FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2n3097 
Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC Call232-7316 from 7-8 pm. 
4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC 
2 FSU GAs x1850 

WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL 
412-352-3216 

NEED 6 GAs to NO vs. USC PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP! 
cccccccccccccccccccc 000000>>>>J)I))))))))))))) 
I, like everyone else in the world, 
need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­
perate than all of them, though. 
Please call me-Diane x4253. 
I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's 
call Beth @ X2615 

DESPERATELY SEEKING 2-5 USC GA or student tix.Colleen634­2291. 
Need GA's for USC 
call Gary x1236. 

CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the two lovely people who spawned me. Any home game. Will pay res­onable price. Heck, I'd even draw somethin' for ya. Call Jay at 271­1400 between 6-10 pm any night. 
HAVE: 8 USC GA-4 are on 50. 
Also, 2 BC GA on 50. 

NEED: FSU GA's. Trade or Cash. 
-Dan 273-0986 

NO ALUM needs several USC GAs. Please call (313)953-5572 after 7pm. 
2 FSU TICKETS NEEDED!! Will 
take student or GA call Annemarie 
at312-404-5131 or 312-573-2143 
Desperate alum in DC need Fla 
State football tickets! Will pay big 
bucks. Call Tom collect after BPM 
703-768-8569 

Need FSU nckets... along with 
everyone else on campus. Willing 
to pay$. 4-1918 

4 SALE-2 FSU GA'S. BO by 
10/21. Call Rob @x1601. 

NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND 
$$$!!11 CALL TOM 254-9013 
I need 2 USC GAs! 
Please call Becca at 4876 FOR SALE: 5 FSU student tickets.· All together. Call Neil634-4417. 

NEI:::D USC GA's for my parents. Call Jim @ 289-6648 
Will trade USC GA's & cash for FSU tix. Call Jim 312-743-8932 
Alum needs to Trade BC GA's for USC GA's. Brian x1979 
I need two USC GA's Please call 
x1882 
WANTED:$$$ GA AND STUD TIX FOR ALL GAMES 282-2133 TONY 
-1need GAs for the USC 
game-Please call Katie at 
284-5447­

Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs for family. Please call Rich X-4499 
Wanted: USC tix, std or GA 
Call Kathy@ x4161 
I NEED TIX FOR : -USC -FLA ST. -BC CALL JOHN at271-1706 
3 ST. nx Book 4 Sale 
273-4002 
$$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$ -Call Phil x3543 

Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for up to 4 GA S.C. lix OR will buy S.C. tix. 631-6305 or 291-4240 
My cousin Frankie is coming out. 
He needs one FSU student ticket. 
Call Joe Russo at 234-6306. 

-**1*1*1*1*!**1*1'**!*1*1**1*1*1*!*1*1*1*1*1*1*1 
I need 2 tix for USC so PLL­
LLEEEAAAASSSSEEEE call Mike 
at271-17061111111 

%#%#%#%#%#%%#%#%#%#%# 
Tickets to the USC , BC and 
Florida St. games for sale. 
Leave name number and 
offer. 4-3440. 
Student tix book for sale. 4-3440 

FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN ALL CALLS 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets for USC Game. Help make a little boy's dream come true. Call collect after 5pm (404)275-7868 
TRADE 1 USC STUD FOR 1 BC STUD Eric x1033 
$$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA 
STATE GA's. 272·7233 $$$$$$$ 

NEED 2 USC GAs 634·1786 DESI 
I have Billy Joel Tix for Friday's 
show and I need to trade them for 
tix to Tuesday's. So let's trade. 
Call Chris at x4-1069. 
I NEED 2 USC GAs 
PLEASE CALL TARA AT#4975 

NEED 1 USC GA. JODI 273-5805 
I AM LUSTING FOR YOUR FSU GA'S. SATISFY MY PASSION. CALL PETER, X1394 
SALE GRAD TCKT APPLCTN 288­4919 
I NEED FLA STATE GA'SIII CALL ** 232-5030 ** 
PARENTS STILL NEED 2 USC 
GA'S. CALL CHRIS X1463 
Need 2 B.C. GAs together $$$Call Dave x1909 
I need USC tickets 
Call Dave at 1-4542 
I NEED 1 USC GA NICK X17n 
Rich Alumni needs 3 FSU GA's and any BC tix. Call216-867-3473 
MBA needs USC tix. Willing to 
trade BC GA's. Call Kevin at 
X4469. 
FOR SALE 
STUD AND GA TIX 
FOR ALL GAMES 
ANTHONY 282-2133 
I HAVE 1 USC STUD 4 SALE 
CHRIS 271-7807 
2 MARRIED STU TIX BOOKS 4 
SALE 254-9175 
***FOR SALE ••• FOUR USC GA'S. TOGETHER ON 25-YD LINE. CALL BILL AT 291-6216 
NEED 2 USC TICKETS II 
CALL DIANE X4812 
NEED 2 F. ST GA'S FOR RICH 
COUSINS $$$JIM 232-3807 
FOR SALE: 1 USC ST. TICK 2 BCGAS BEST OFFER X2851 
I NEED 2 USC GA'S -ANDREW X1881 
FSU = 1 vs 2 Four 30 yardline student tickets together with all the trimmings. 
Make a GRAND offer. 
219-634-1097 
4 SALE: 2 USC GA'S 
LET'S MAKE A DEAL 
273-6545 AFTER 6 PM 
Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted! 
Please call (407)438-3697 
4 SALE USC/BC STUD TIX 
CHEAP X1203 MATT 
I NEED 2 USC GAs $ BIG BUCKS $CALL MIKE @ 3489 
Need 2 FSU/ND tickets, Call Brian 
at 1-800-226-8001. 
Need 2 FSU/ND tickets, Call Brian 
at 1-800-226-8001. 
$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$ 
I need USC GAs and Student tix .. 
Call Monique at 634-4273 
$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$# 
USC fern. stu. ticket FOR SALE. 
Make offer. Call Jen x4861. 
HAVE USC GA TO TRADE FOR 
ANY FSU ERIN x2785 
Need stud. and GAs for USC-will pay big$$$$ call Aimee @2654 Going to Philly for Break? I have Navy Tix. Also USC GA's. I need BC and FSU GA's anyone willing to buy or trade call Uz at 273·8967 

PERSONAL 
Sophomores Ill 
Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad, laughter and music in a country home for your baby. Please call Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 anylime. 
SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your high school over break as SMC rep? Sign up-Admission Office. Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21 
5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge. 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­place in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369-2597 
Have you turned in your LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION??? 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
NEED CASH FOR FALL BREAK?? 
STOP BY THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
$10-$250 Loans 30days 1% interest 

11:30-12:30 Mon.-Fri. Next to Info. Desk, Lafortune 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
AMNESTY MEETING on Tues. Oct. 19 at 9 pm at the esc. All are welcome! 
$o/~%$%$o/4%$%$%$o/~o/~% 
I need FSU tickets ... I'll trade two free airline tickets to the Bahamas usable anylime during the next year in exchange for 2 FSU sudent tix or GAs. 
Call Joe at 634·15n 
$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$% 
Top Ten Reasons To Take the Pink Eaterbunnies to An SYR: 10-Tom wasn't drunk. 9-You never know whose clothes they'll be wearing. a-Guaranteed lots of pictures. 7-Leaves. 6-You won't have to deal with those pesky flash bulbs. 5-They fit in nicely with Penguins & Sheep. 4-"We want Jell-0 Shots!" 3-Cookies, Candy, and Trick-or­Treating. 2-We like them. 1-Because they're the finest ladies on campus. 
NO Students-GUESS WHAT?II It was MEG-MEISTER'S & 
M.C. HOWE'S birthday TODAY is MACBETH'S birthday It will be TWINKlE GIRL'S birthday Isn't that neat? Shining on, Rayman 
FOR THE (GRAD?) STUDENT FROM INDIA IN SEARCH OF SEPT. 26 TIMES OF INDIA ­I found the issues you wanted after you left being thrown out -if you want them, call me at 634-4772. 
J, J(B), J-Thanks for being daring yet normal. We had a great time! ­3SWF 
Relive the Fondue Parlor: HOT OILII HOT OILII! 
HEY PHILADELPHIANS! Because I know we from the city of brotherly love are so kind and gen­erous, I know one of you out there will help me out and give me a ride home for fall break. I'll pay gas, tolls, etc. Please Help!! I Call PATRICK at X1628 
page 12 The Observer • MEN'S INTERHALL Tuesday, October 19, 1993 
Zahm, Cavanaugh, Fisher remain unbeaten in Blue League 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Wri1er 
What a difference a half makes. In Zahm's case this was especially true, as the Rabid Bats rebounded from a dismal first half to defeat Alumni 7-0. 
By defeating Alumni, Zahm all but clinched one of the four playoff spots up for grabs in the blue league. They did this with a solid defensive effort in the first half and an aggressive of­fensive attack in the second. 

1015 TEAM REC. 9/28 
1. Morrissey 4-0-0 1 2. Fisher 3-0-0 2 3. Zahm 3-0-1 4 4. Cavanaugh 2-0-1 5 5. Keenan 2-1-0 3 6. Stanford 2-1-1 6 7. Alumni 1-2-0 8 8. Dillon 1-2-0 9 9. St. Ed's 1-2-1 7 10. Flanner 1-2-1 11 11. Off-Campus 1-2-1 10 12. Carroll 0-2-1 12 13. Grace 0-3-0 14 14. Sarin 0-4-0 13 
Compiled by IH staff writers 
STANDINGS 
GOLD DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
1. 
Morrissey 1. Fisher 

2. 
Keenan 2. Zahm 

3. 
Stanford 3. Cav. 

4. 
Flanner 4. St. Ed's 

5. 
Dillon 5. Alumni 

6. 
Off-Campus 6. Carroll 

7. 
Grace 7. Sarin 


PLAYER OF THE WEEK 
Mike Norbut Soph. running back. Norbut scored two touchdowns, had two other runs of 20 and 30 yards, and picked off a pass in No. 4 Cavanaugh's 13-0 win over Sarin. 
The Obeerver/Siaff Graphic 

Sophomore quarterback Randy Swatland came out throwing after halftime, setting up the lone touchdown and throwing for two more, only to have them nullified due to penalties. 
"We turned up the intensity in the second half," said Zahm coach Dan Fitzpatrick. "Swatland did a great job for us today. He took his time and stood his ground in the pocket." 
The only touchdown of the day was set up after a clipping penalty by the Dawgs, giving Zahm a first down. Following two first-down passes to junior Peter Couri, Swatland found junior Rick Rios down the side­line for a big gain to the 7 -yard line of Alumni. From there Swatland ran around end on the keeper for the score. 
"That penalty in the third quarter hurt us," commented Alumni coach Paul Zachlin. "When there are no turnovers, penalties make the difference." 
Zachlin went on to credit his whole team for a good game. The defense gave up no first downs in the opening half while the offense made strides only to be stopped by penalties or the Zahm defense, which pitched a shutout for the second week in a row. 
Cavanaugh 13, Sorin 0 

For the second week in a row, sophomore running back Mike Norbut captured all the at­tention as he lead Cavanaugh to their second win a row. Norbut finished a full day's work with both touchdowns and a drive­killing interception. 
Cavanaugh's first scoring drive started at the Sorin 45­yard line after a bad snap on the punt gave them good field position. From there Norbut got the first down on an option play and combined with a Sorin penalty, Cavanaugh advanced to the 15-yard line. After a short pass, the man of the hour bowled over a defender for the score and an early 6-0 lead. 
"Today our whole offense was like a V-8, Dodge Ram Charger firing on all cyliders," said an elated Norbut after the game. 
The now-winless Otters did 
5:00p.m., 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Swami Pratyagbodhananda Saraswati 
ofSurat, Gujarat, India 

Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza 
"Ahimsa: Understanding the Spiritual Source ofGandi's Nonviolent Political Movement" 
Tuesday, October 19, 1993 4:30 -5:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies, Room C-103 
Swami Pratyagbodhananda, a traditional spiritual teacher, conducts Vedanta classes in Surat, India most ofthe year. He travels throughout India, Canada and the United States to give public talks and conduct spiritual camps. 


For more information, call Professor Sabrina McCarthy at the Center 
Free Delivery • 271~1177
for Civil and Human Rights, Notre Dame Law School, 631-7233. 
1993-94 BE A PART OF IT! Notre Dame Men's Basketball 
Student Ticket Distribution SENIORS TODAY!! JACC Gate 10 8:00 -5:00 

have a scoring chance late in the third quarter as they had the ball at the Cavanaugh 13­

t yard line following yet another bad snap on the punt. However, two plays later, Norbut picked off Jeff Farragher's pass after it was tipped by the defensive line. 
"After the muffed punt our defense saved us and turned it around to set up the second score," said Cavanaugh coach Tony Nowak. 

After Norbut ran the inter­ception back to about the 50­yard line, he proceeded to chalk up runs of 20 and 30 yards up to the Sorin two. Norbut then capped off his career day by scoring on the handoff to close out the game. _f!!i;~~": . Fisher 14, St. Ed's 0 
><:· 
In the final shutout of the day, the Green Wave of Fisher main­tained their unblemished record as they dominated St. Ed's in a 14-0 win. 

The offensive aerial assault was lead by sophomore quar­terback Jeff Biever, who showed flashes of brilliance at times. On the first drive of the day for Fisher, Biever hit junior Dan Mcginty for what would be 

\

the first of his four catches. After a 20-yard run by senior Rob Ganz, it was time for Biever to go to work. Rolling right and under heavy pres­sure, he found sophomore Mike Carroll deep in the end zone for a 30-yard TD pass. 
"We played real well on both sides of the ball," said Biever. "For the most part, the offen­sive line gave me good protec­tion." 
A lack of protection was what hurt St. Ed's and freshman 


The Observer/John Bingham 
quarterback Paul Rogers. The 

Cavanaugh running back Mike Norbut was the Observer Player-of-the­
Fisher defense allowed only two 

Week for his two-touchdown performance on Sunday.
first downs on the day as they were led by freshman John Fisher coach Chuck Hurley "Our offense just took over Kmetz, who had an interception was proud of his defense for the from there due to the fact that and a sack. way they were able to get to we can score from anywhere on 
"I was on my back most of the Rogers all day. the field," said Hurley. day," said Rogers. "However, thanks to the inspiration from Louie Gentine and some mirac­
IT'S BACK! 
ulous play-calling by Frank Solofra, I was able to maintain my composure throughout the 
Beat The Clock Tuesday!
game. 



----------------------------------------------~ 
page 13

Tuesday, October 19, 1993 The Observer • MEN'S INTERHALL 

Top-ranked Morrissey finishes as lone 4-0 team in Gold League 
By G.R. NELSON definitely feel we'll be the team Dillon (1-2) was never in the Sports Writer to beat, but there are a lot of contest. "We got beat bad," great teams like Keenan and said Dillon captain Zach 
Top-ranked Morrissey (4-0) Fisher left," said Reider. Budzichowski. "We just didn't trampled Keenan 20-3 to clinch Stanford 17, Dillon 6 play well." first place in the Gold League With their season on the line, For Stanford, the win brings and complete an undefeated Stanford (2-1-1) put it all to­hope. "We were inconsistent at regular season. gether and played its strongest times in the regular season," 
Quarterback Scott Taylor game of the year to defeat said Stanford's Tonie Barth, paced Morrissey's offense by Dillon 17-6 and clinch a playoff "But now we're in and that's all passing for three touchdowns spot. that matters." and 140 yards. Wide receiver Stanford abandoned its high­Planner 14, Off-Campus 6 Tom Fitzpatrick caught the first powered passing attack and Planner (1-2-1) claimed its 
two touchdown passes on went to the ground game. "We first victory of the season with 
strikes of 25 and 30 yards, re­knew we could pass, and now an impressive 14-6 victory over spectively. Justin Kruer con­we have proved we can run," Off Campus. tinued his outstanding play, said Stanford captain Chris Planner started some younger 
catching one touchdown pass Pollina. players at key positions, and and repeatedly rushing for long Thanks to the strong running the infusion of youth provided gains. of tailback Lamar Guillory, immediate dividends. 
Morrissey's defense yielded Stanford had little need to Freshman tight end Scott Lupo its first points of the year on throw. Guillory carried the ball caught four passes for 80 yards Josh Tullis' 30-yard field goal. 15 times for 120 yards, with and a touchdown. New quar­Morrissey's dominating defense many of those yards coming terback Jamie Bordas had a 35­still has not allowed a touch­after initial contact. yard touchdown pass. down this year. "Once again, When Dillon's defense keyed The game was scoreless at 
our defense played out­on Guillory, Stanford gave the the half, but Planner took con­standing," said Morrissey cap­ball to either Pollina or John trol of the game early in the tain George Reider. Mele. Pollina scored Stanford's third quarter. "We came out 
Keenan (2-1) had few high­first touchdown, and Mele pro­and executed real well in the lights in their first loss. "We vided the clinching score. second half," said Flanner cap­played with a lack of disci­Stanford received an emo­tain Brian Parker. 
pline," said Keenan's Matt tional lift from the right leg of Robert Phelps gave Planner a Makowski. lineman Chad Smock. Stanford 6-0 lead with his one-yard Morrissey is peaking at the had failed to convert on an ex­plunge in the third quarter. right time and appears to be tra point all year, but Smock Off-Campus (1-2) scored a late the team to beat, but they are kicked two extra points and a touchdown on a 70-yard pass certainly not overconfident. "I field goal. from quarterback Mike Myers 

to workhorse fullback Matt Carr, but came no closer. 
Hockey 
continued from page 16 
the first thirteen minutes of the final period, the Irish finally took the lead at the 13:24 mark. Ling passed to a open Ben Nelsen in front of Organ, and the freshman beat him for Notre Dame's fourth goal. "We 
G
eorgetown licensed registered nurses. registration, and curricu­
wanted to win, so everyone was crashing the net," said
University School of Although we encourage lum for the Accelerated 
Ling. "It was just a matter of 
Nelsen being open and he knew how to finish." 
Nursing offers an accel­students with science BSN program, please call 
erated program 
A one-goal lead was all Louder needed for the victory. The defense did allow some
~:::~t ~~~:;e~ Graduating·Seniors: 
scoring chances for Waterloo, most notably a four on two
for college 
break, but Louder came up with the big stops. Even with an extra skater for
e~~~~e~ .AnAccelerated PathToA 
the final 1:18, the Warriors 
to pursue 
could not score the tying goal. Two consecutive saves by
a career in nursing. 
Louder at the minute mark 
preserved the victory. The
Upon completion of 
NursingCareer. 
game ended with the puck in
the IS-month program, 
Waterloo's zone. This was quite appropriate, as that is
graduates are prepared backgrounds to apply, all Stephanie Lamboley at 
where much of the action took
to take the state board undergraduate degrees 202-687-5001 or 
place. "The bottom line is we won,"
examinations to become are acceptable. 1-800-89 NURSE. 
said Schafer, who was not com­pletely satisfied with the play of his squad. "We started the sea­
The application dead­Limited financial aid 
line for the Fall 1994 available. 
son on a winning note. We found some weaknesses (line changes and intensity through­
semester is March 1,1994. 
For more informa­
out) to work on. We'll talk." One thing that definitely did
tion about Georgetown 
impress Schafer and his staff
University, and admission, 
was the performance of the underclassmen. He specifically praised the play of sophomore defensemen Davide DalGrande and Nelsen, who "looked like he had been out there before." 
Schafer also mentioned the performance of the penalty­killing team, especially their hustle. The ability of the team to come back from a two-goal deficit is another positive that came from Saturday's game. 
rf~~&' 

"We saw how far we came in
~·GEoRGETOWN UNIVERSITY ScHoOL OF NuRSING 
two weeks (of practice)," said Ling, who showed glimpses of his playmaking ability. "Now we
,>:"".~ Accelerated BSN Program/Office of Undergraduate Admissions 
3700 Reservoir Road, NW, Washington, DC 20007 • 202-687-5001 or 1-800-89 NURSE 
have another two weeks to pre­
AA/EOE 
pare for Western Michigan." 
L --­
page 14 The Observer • SAINT MARY'S Tuesday, October 19, 1993 
Saint Mary's teams face Chicago as seasons wind down 
Soccer travels to Chicago for last road game 
I I I 
I 
I' 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I I 
~ 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I' 
I 
I I 
' 
I I I I I 
I I Observer Staff Repon I 
I The Saint Mary's volleyballI team hosts the University of Chicago today as it heads into 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Attention Skiers: Deposits for the Christmas Trip to Breckenridge, CO. will be taken on Tues. Oct. 19 from 8­9 p.m. in LaFortune, by the information desk and on Thursday oct. 21 from 8-9 p.m. in Rm 127 Niewland Science Hall. Deposits ($100) due by friday. For more information, contact Dave Zidor at 273­3105. 
Mandatory meeting for anyone interested in being an official for coree basketball, Monday Oct.. 18 5p.m. at the JACC Auditorium. 
Women's Lacrosse: Practice is on Tues. and Thurs. at 5 p.m. and Sun. at 4p.m. at Cushing. If you have any ques· tions call Emily at 634-2856 or Michelle at 634-2894. 



The Observer/Brian McDonough Senior co-captain Megan Dalsaso plays her last away game for the Saint Mary's soccer team today. 
TUESDAY 9 p.m. -12 a.m. $1 per game! THURSDAY Time Bowl. ..9:30-11 :30 only $10 per lane STUDENT SPECIAL 
Anytime! $1.35 per game Anytime! 
BEACON BOWL 
4210 L.W.W.  234-4 167  
International  Study  Progra ms  
P+esents  


JERUSALEM PROGRAM LECTURE ALL PRESENTATIONS WILL BE HELD DEBARTOLO  SERIES IN ROOM  202  
WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER 20, 1993 PROF • ALAN DOWTY GOVERNMENT  4:30  PM  

"MIDEAST POLITICAL UPDATE" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1993 4:30 PM PROF. JOSEPH AMAR CLASSICAL AND ORIENTAL LANGUAGES "MIDDLE EASTERN MANNERS" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1993 4:30 PM RABBI MICHAEL SIGNER THEOLOGY "THE JEWISH PEOPLE AND THE LAND OF ISRAEL" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1993 4:30 PM FATHER DAVID BURRELL, C.S.C. PHILOSOPHY/THEOLOGY "JERUSALEM: AMONG THREE WORLDS -­JEWS, CHRISTIANS AND MUSLIMS" 

the final stretch of the season. The match is slated for 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles boast a record of 13-10, with this being their fi­nal game before fall break. 
During the break Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek and her squad will travel to Philadelphia for a pair of triangular matches. The 
By MARY GOOD Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Today the Saint Mary's soc­
cer team will board the team 
bus for the last time this season 
and head to Illinois to take on 
the University of Chicago. 

The University of Chicago is 
expected to give the Belles a 
difficult game, as they were 
ranked tenth in the Great 
Lakes Region last week. 
Following this game the Belles 
have two home contests to fin­
ish off the season. 

"We have played a lot of common opponents this sea­son," said Saint Mary's coach Tom Van Meter, whose team is 6-5-1 on the season. Earlier this year Saint Mary's defeated Wheaton 4-3. Last week the University of Chicago beat Wheaton 2-1. 
"Our record does not reflect 
our game," said Van Meter. 

Although the Belles were de­feated by St. Joseph's College last week, they have been im­proving in practice this week, according to Van Meter. Saint Mary's has beaten University of Chicago the past five years and looks to continue their winning trend. 
"It is the last week of our season and I hope we can con­tinue winning in these three final games," said Van Meter. 
first come against Swarthmore and Wilmington Colleges on October 27, followed by a match with Haverford and Widener College on the 29th. 
The Belles have only one home match remaining after today's contest, on November 2 against Goshen College. 

Happy 21~ Birthday 
Todd Schmidt 
on October 19th 
We love you dearly 
Mom, Dad, Ryan & Suzanne 

Attention Juniors!! 
How would you like reservations for your parents 
at the Morris Inn 
for Junior Parents Weekend? 
Come to the Junior Class Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune all this week to enter your name in a lottery for these coveted rooms. 
Winners will be announced November 3rd. 


--------------------. 
Tuesday, October 19, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER ..


BILL WAITERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 



The whole family always enjoyed the way Uncle Numanga could reach over and "find" 
a skull in little Tooby's ear. 
OF INTEREST 

-TiiAT'S m~: IN Tfle. (-of>N€. R. .. 
Twv.,-'s ('fk \N \HI<.. SPoTLIGHT.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Union member 54 Arsonists, since 1!!03 perhaps
1 Arthur and Lillie 34 Nautical 59 "Gypsy" lyricist 5 N.B.A. champs: command 62 Ripped
1993 
36 "Meet John 63 "The House of10 Failure 

--,"Gary 

Blue Leaves" 14 Arm bone Cooper film playwright15 Dark 37 Filmdom's Dr. 
64Ye--Tea
16 Russian river Gillespie Shoppe17 "La Gioconda" 41 Hymenopterous 65 Part of a church painter insect 66 Famed20 Author who 42 Smallest Canadianappeared in amount physician"Jaws" 43 Alphabotic 67 Big Board 21 Shakespearean starters initials
forest 44 --ad,1udicata 22 British ritual 45 Dieter's target 23 Intimidate 46 God of 1he north DOWN 26 Be frugal wind 
1 Daffodil or tulip 290mega 48 Loses patience 2 "Waiting for the preceder 50 Actress 
Robert-" 
30 Landon or TV Gardner 3 Shortly 
alien 51 Residue1 
4 Permission or penalty 5 Coarse material ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Wavy, in heraldry 7 Comedian 
Harold a Top of a can 28 Disorderly 47 "Metamor-55 Presider at 9 RR stop uprisings phoses" poet Senate 
10 Act amorously 30 Sun-dried brick 48 Conical tent meetings 11 W.W. ll's--­56 Slippery
31 Spanish poet 49 Rope fiber 
Lease Act 57 Clears
Garcia-­

51 The Charleses' 
12 Story start 32 Provides dog13 Hurt 34 Lessen 52 Arrest
f-7.+=+::+::-l 18 Attention getter 35 Blood vessel, 53 Possessive
19 Dressing table e.g. pronoun
=.J."'+'-"~c.,-..,. 24 Separated 38 Mischievous
~J..;.+=+::-l 25 Former inits. in Kiev 
39 Limericks man F.+:.:+.==+:::-1 26 Kind of energy 40 April event in ~+=+=+=:""'! 27 Backbone of an 
Boston animal 46 Shea display 
HIGH QUALITY, LOW COST HAIR CARE 
1811 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 271-7674 
r-----------, r-----------i
1 haircut coupon I 1 haircut coupon 1 
I SAVE I I SAVE 1 I $1.00 I I $2.00 I 
I I I I
I reg. $8 ! l reg. $13-$15 I I WET CUT i ( SHAMPOO, CUT & 1 
I I r STYLE I I with this coupon I I with tnls coupon 1 I 6llpir;~s; 10/25/93 I I expires: 10/25/93 I 
L-----------~ L-----------~ 

.. 
SPORTS 
By TIM SHERMAN  Taking advantage of a Waterloo  ing, Notre Dame cut the lead to  
Spons Writer  line change, goalie Greg Louder  one on a goal by junior Carey  
hit an open Terry Lorenz with a  Nemeth. He converted a loose  
The Notre Dame hockey team  perfect outlet pass. The fresh­ rebound, allowing the Irish to  
opened their 1993-94 season  man then beat goalie James  jump right back into the game.  
on Saturday by defeating the  Organ to put the Irish up 1-0.  Except for a Notre Dame flur­ 
Waterloo Warriors 4-3 at the  The key was Louder's pass.  ry in the final 30 seconds of the  
J.A.C.C.  "That play was Greg Louder at  period, play was relatively slow  
Although only an exhibition  his best," according to Schafer.  until the start of the third peri­ 
game, it was important for the  Despite the fact that Notre  od.  
team to get off to a winning  Dame controlled the first pe­ The final stanza began with  
start to-prove that they are ca­ riod, there were plenty of first­ an Irish penalty. However,  
pable of winning a good  game mistakes that Waterloo  strong forechecking, especially  
amount of games this year.  failed to convert on. In the sec­ by Jeff Hasselman, stalled  
The game also served as an  ond period, though, the mis­ Waterloo's scoring chances. A  
opportunity for the freshman to  takes turned into three Warrior  brief scuffie followed, with four  
get some game experience, and  goals in a five-minute span.  players (two on each side) re­ 
more importantly, confidence  The first two goals, scored by  ceiving penalties. The hitting  
that they can succeed at the  Mike White and Steve Woods,  intensity subsequently rose,  
collegiate level.  came as a result of sloppy line  and it was the Irish who  
Coach Ric Schafer and his  changes on the part of the Irish.  capitalized.  
Irish expected a physical style  Less than a minute after the  On their sixth power play op­ 
of play from Waterloo. The  second goal, Louder dove to  portunity, Notre Dame finally  
Warriors did not disappoint, as  grab a loose puck. It was  converted. Lorenz scored his  
they took every opportunity to  knocked away and ended up in  second goal on a wrap-around  
hit. However, it was Notre  the net, as Waterloo captain  effort to tie the game at three.  
Dame that took control of the  Jason Mervyn took advantage  "Terry just found the net with  
game in the first period.  of the empty net to give his  his shot," said Schafer.  
The Irish kept constant pres­ team a 3-1 lead.  The Irish continued their  
sure in the Waterloo zone. The  Schafer quickly called a time­ pressure, forcing Waterloo to  
defense was a major reason for  out to calm his shell-shocked  take penalties to prevent goals.  
such pressure. Led by captain  group. "All he said was for us  Even though Notre Dame could  
Matt Osiecki, the Irish defend­ to settle down, keep our heads,  not score, the defense greatly  
ers frustrated most Waterloo  and stay in control," said  benefitted. Waterloo could not  
chances and sent their team­ sophomore Jamie Ling. "lie  mount a substantial attack  
mates off on breaks, although  also reminded us that we were  skating a man down, as they  
they failed to convert.  capable of coming back."  were for much of the first ten  
Finally, after many quality  Apparently, the quick talk had  minutes of the period.  
The Observer/Jake Peters Sophomore Garry Gruber anchored the Notre Dame defense in their 4-3 win over Waterloo on Friday night.  chances, the Irish notched their first goal of the season at the 8:57 mark of the first period.  a positive effect, as the Irish stepped up their level of play. After four minutes of solid skat- After outskating Waterloo for see HOCKEY I page 13  

Tuesday, October 19, 1993 

Hockey posts exhibition win 
Irish volleyball looks for eighth straight win tonight 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR "Traditionally, we've had a good ace to Assistant Spons Editor error ratio in our service game, and we look to continue that," commented 
Eight straight wins in any sport is Brown. improbable, yet this is the mark the No. Against the Golden Flashes, Notre 13 Notre Dame volleyball team will try Dame will try to pass well, allowing the to reach tonight at 7:30 p.m. as it hosts team to run every option on its offense, lightly regarded Kent State at the and thereby improve on the fun­
J.A.C.C. damentals stressed by Brown. 
Beginning with its victories over Fundamentals should be all the Irish Southwest Missouri State and No. 3 need to defeat the Golden Flashes, which Nebraska in the Golden Dome enter with a mediocre 8-10 record Invitational back in September, the Irish against sub-par opposition. Kent State is have reeled off seven in a row, taking particularly susceptible on offense, as advantage of a particularly weak stretch the team owns a low .182 hitting per­in their schedule to improve to 15-3. centage, which should be an advantage 
Throughout the streak, individual to the defensively-solid Irish. members of the team have stepped up Despite their lack of experience their games to avoid upsets, but the against ranked competition, the Golden team is still searching for consistency as Flashes do bring some talented players a unit. into their first-ever meeting with the 
"Our goal is to study what goes on on Irish. Kent State relies on both experi­our side of the net," noted Irish head ence and youth, as senior outside hitter coach Debbie Brown. "We've talked a Lindi Morrison leads the squad with 175 lot about fundamentals in practice, and kills, closely followed by freshman mid­hope to pay attention to the little things." dle blocker Larisa Grinsbergs, who has 
Particularly, the Irish look to improve 128. upon their hitting percentage, which "Against Kent State, we want to get reached a season low in their last match back into the mode of playing the volley­against Michigan. As Brown explained, ball we're capable of," stated Brown. "We can't have that many unforced "We hope to not only come away with a errors." victory, but more importantly, to play 
Serving has also been a key to the Irish well." success of late. In closing out a five­Looking ahead, this game becomes a game match against Ball State, senior key warm-up for the Irish, as it is their Molly Stark served the final five points in last contest before going on the road for a crucial rally scoring situation, notching their longest stretch of the season, a two aces, and junior Nicole Coates' jump three match swing through the serve proved to be the difference as the Southwest that includes matches against Irish defeated Illinois State in five No. 18 Arizona State and No. 22 

games. Arizona. 


Saint Mary's Athletics The Saint Mary's soccer and volleyball teams each face the University of Chicago today. see page 14 
Inside SPORTS 


Morrissey Unbeaten The top-ranked Manor wins their fourth straight over Keenan to lead Gold league action. see page 13 
Zahm Wins Again Third-ranked Zahm posts their third win, a 7­0 victory over Alumni, to hold the top spot in the Blue League. see page 12 






