~ 1"\it 

COLLEGE !}1!. N<e:-lTR•f I1 ·
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.7 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senate soon to vote on National Service Act 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
The United States Senate will have a bit of catching up to do upon returning to Washington, DC this week after its month­long recess. 
When the Senate adjourned in early August for a Labor Day district work period, it had not yet voted on the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993-a bill that would make it possible for individuals over 17­years old to participate in up to two years of service work in exchange for money towards postsecondary education. 
The bill, which is a scaled­down version of what President Clinton proposed during his campaign, has undergone months of debate in both the House of Representatives and Senate. The final version of the bill would allow for 20,000 indi­viduals to perform up to two years of community service and receive $4,725 a year to defer the cost of college tuition or job training. Participants would also receive a stipend and health and child-care benefits. 
The House approved this ver­sion by a 275-152 vote before adjourning in early August, but the Senate cbose to postpone its vote until after recess in order to better review final changes that were made in a House/Senate conference com­mittee. 
Provided the Senate approves the measure, the bill will then go to President Clinton to be signed into law, and take effect October 1, 1993. 
Work on the bill began in earnest this summer when both the House and Senate held hearing to gather input on how to best organize a· national ser­vice program similar to that which Clinton outlined on his campaign tour. 
In campaign speeches Clinton 
said he envisioned a program 
that would engage an "army of 
100,000 young people" in com­
munity service, each earning 
$10,000 a year toward higher 
education. 
"If we are truly to practice 
what we preach, Americans of 
every faith and viewpoint 
should come together to pro­
mote the common good," said 
Clinton in a campaign speech at 
the University of Notre Dame 

The National and Community Service Act would be authorized for three 
National and Community  
Service Act of 1993  
Key features of the national service bill as outlined in the  
House-Senate Conference Report on the legislation:  
Individuals 17 years of age or older who:  
....  Express desire to serve nation's communities  
....  Have received a high school diploma or equivalent  
....  Is a citizen of the U.S. or a lawful permanent resident  
BENEFITS TO PARTICIPANTS:  ·"  >;;;,'"  ,  ·  
....  Educational award of $4725 a year for up to 2 years  
....  Living allowance to off-set costs of living (food, housing,  
transportation) in area in which program is located  
....  Health care coverage  
.... Child care assistance COSTS OF THE PROGRAM:  . .  ,'14>Yt0  

years. 
Fiscal Year 1994: $300 Million Fiscal Year 1995: $500 Million Fiscal Year 1996: $700 Million 

After the three years, the program will face evaluation. wl%ftl·;&'
WHERE DOES THE MONEY GO? · ' ''!'>' 
WOO::::.::··
'*'"~" 

A portion of this money would be set aside for grants for the development and creation of service projects. Funds would be distributed as follows: 
1/3 to states 1/3 for competitive proposals to based on be submitted by states population levels 

1/3 to federal agencies, local governments, and non-profit groups 
LATEST ACTION ON THE BILL: · ., ·•" A "····"'· a~ 
~lJi&tiJ 

The House of Representatives passed the legislation on August 6, 1993 by a vote of 275-152. 

The bill is currently pending a vote in the Senate. 

October 1 , 1993 The Observer/Chris Wei 
last September. 
The proposals that surfaced in Congress were significantly scaled down, both in the num­ber of participants and in the amount of the education award, but the program's goals have remained the same-to help rebuild American communities while offering educational com­munities to the nation's youth. 
"It is the purpose of this Act to meet the unmet human, ed­ucational, environmental, and public safety needs of the United State, without displacing existing workers," according to the House/Senate Conference Report. 
If implemented, the National and Community Service Trust Act would authorize grants to states, local governments and nonprofit organizations to cre­ate community service pro­grams and jobs. 
One-third of the grants would go to states based on population levels, one-third would go to­wards competitive proposals submitted by states, and one­third would go to federal agen­cies and nonprofit groups. 
Involvement would not be limited, however, to those who receive grants. Service pro­grams and organizations al­ready in place would also be el­igible to participate in the pro­gram. 
The national service program would "expand and strengthen existing service programs with demonstrated experience in 
see ACT I page 4 
Malloy addresses 
U.S. Senate on merits of service 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
Drawing focus away from the financial aid aspect of the Na­tional and Community Service Act of 1993, University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy testified before the United States Senate this summer on the merits of community ser­vice. 
While the Act would provide participants with an education­al award, stipend, and health and childcare benefits. nonma­terial benefits to both partici­pants and the nation's commu­nities would far outweigh mon­etary benefits, according to Malloy. 
"Lately the subject of ser­vice has been lost in the uproar about costs and who receive benefits,"Malloy said. "It would be imprudent simply to allow service to be defined as anoth­er financial aid alternative be­
cause  this misses the  true  
value of service in its  own  
right."  

Citing examples from both Notre Dame and other service­minded universities, Malloy discussed reasons why many individuals are attracted to ser­vice and the results of such ef­forts. 
"People from Notre Dame and other schools participate in service projects and dedicate time after graduation to com­munity service because of a deeply felt obligation to give back to those less fortunate than themselves, not because of monetary considerations. Giving back to society and a sense of responsibility to do so is the very essence of service," he explained. 
"The benefits... for the vast majority who participate in community service would be attributable to service," he added. "Namely, satisfaction in having served others; aware­ness and appreciation of vast difficulties the United States face in overcoming poverty, ig­
see MALLOY I page 4 

Saint Mary's improves campus computer services 
By KYAN LOCKE 
News Writer 
In response to students' com­plailltS, Saint Mary's Computer Services has added new com­puters, user-friendly programs and updated equipment in the campus computer labs. 
Grievances about the com­puter labs included inaccessi­bility during class hours, lost files on disks and faulty com­puters, according to Lynn O'Donnell, vice president for Student Academic Council (SAC). 
O'Donnell and SAC brought the problems to the attention of Dorothy Feigel, vice president and dean of faculty, who pre­sented the complaints to Computer Services, who allot­ted the funds needed to update the lab. 
"I think we addressed all the major problems students had concerning the lab," Feigel said. 
Equipment and donations were also provided by IBM and individual Saint Mary's Alumnae. 
Thirteen new Macintosh Centris 610 and nine IBM's were purchased, bringing the total to 68 computers available in the lab and the Writing Center in Le Mans Hall. The new computers have Claris capabilities so students can cre­ate spreadsheets and graphics as well as access word process­ing and database. 
A new Hewlett Packard Laser Jet Printer was also purchased and a window was built into the wall so students can access the printer while classes are in ses­sion in the lab. 
Dan Mandell, senior aca­demic specialist, and his staff in Computer Services worked hard this summer to have the lab ready for students. 
."I feel we completed some of the short-term goals," Mandell said. "My only concern is that students will.not limit the E­mail and computer games to designated areas. The chal­lenge will be for the student body to cooperate and respect each others' needs." 
Computer Services is cur­rently working on installing a computer in each residence hall for E-mail purposes. Until then, E-mail centers will be lo­cated in the basement of the li­brary, Regina Hall and at des­ignated writing centers. Also, the Laser Jet Printer hours will be extended to 2 a.m. if Computer Services can find a student who is available to work that shift as part of their work study program. 
"I've received a lot· of positive feedback from students. I think the lab looks terrific," O'Donnell added. 

Funding a problem for co-ed space 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
The Student Senate is trying to expand the amount of 24­hour space on campus and is finding funding for the project difficult, according to Student Body Vice President Nikki Wellmann. 
Currently, the areas are lim­ited to the individual dorms and LaFortune Student Center, said Student Body President Frank Flynn at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
fit11n !~i 1\i!N:iiIt'll!1i!t'!fl 
The senate is hoping to open the first floor area of LaFortune in addition to the basement area, which would entail extra funds. 
"It would cost $2,700 for a pilot month, and $30,000 for the whole year," according to a senate report. The additional funds would be used for an­other student monitor and more custodial services. 
Possible solutions to the 
problem include opening 
LaFortune for part of the week 
on a 24-hour basis, opening the 
building for 23-hours using the 
remaining hour to clean, hiring 
an additional student monitor 
to help with cleaning duties 
and rotating hours with the 
current cleaning staff. 
The administration is leaving 
the funding to the Student 
Senate, according to Vice 
President Nikki Wellmann. 
Several senators discussed 
the possibility of working with 
the administrators on the pro­
ject. 
"We are looking into alterna­
tive means, because we cannot 
afford to throw this kind of 
money around," the report 
said. 
Other projects organized for 
the year include the ND job 
network, The Guide, increasing 
awareness of the College of 
Arts and Letter's College 
Fellow's Program by imple­
menting a similar program in 
The College of Business 
Administration, Fall Festival 
'93 and the Book Fair. 
"Response to the Book Fair was phenomenal," Wellmann said. "We do not have the final tallies yet, but we collected at least 8,000 books before the fair had even begun, and more people brought books in during the time of the Book Fair." 
Student Senators Dana Anderson, district four, Jen Halbach, district two, Erin King, district one and Sean Sullivan, district three, issued a notice to the Senate informing it of its plan to attend Hall Council meetings on a regular basis. 
"In the past, many senators have taken a rather passive ap­proach to their duties," said King. "This year's student se­nators, however, want to ac­tively participate in Senate." 


---~---­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN AT AGLANCE 



There's a lot of fishing 
in baseball 
There's something about baseball and fish­ing. 
It's all about realizing that things are better slow, rhythmic, hypnotiz­ing, almost monotonous. Like peeling away the shell of a peanut wrapped . · .. -~· in the smell of a ball­David Kinney 
park, success is time­
Editor-in-Chief
consuming and the 
reward often small. 

In a country where information is immediate and history is what happ~ne~ last week, baseball and fishing p_romise tim~lessness. They are national pas­times. They ve been around in the United States as far back as most people alive can remember. 
At once they are both un-American and they define what it is to be American. They are constant in a country that continually seeks change. They are rhythmic in a world that seems to thrive on speed and flash. 
But the greats of each sport understand that both baseball and fishing hold dear all that America keeps close to its heart: de­termination, knowledge, timing, hope, failure and, many times, luck. 
The allure of these pastimes lie in their ac­cessibility. 
Just about anyone can throw a worm on a 
hook and a line in the river and come home 
with a string of Junkers. And just about ev­
eryone has felt the fabulous surge up their 
arms as a hardball lurches off the bat. They've 
run the bases and leapt headfirst into second. 
And if they haven't, they've dreamed. 

But surely the sports demand so much more. 
Author Norman MacClean said it best. "If our 
father had had his say, nobody who did not 
know how to fish would be allowed to disgrace 
a fish by catching him." 

To see how the pros do it. That's what draws people to the Wrigley Fields, the Municipals, the Fenways, and even the more obscure Coveleskis and Ernie Shores. That's why thou­sands get up early on weekend mornings to watch Bill Dance reveal the secrets of pre­spawn largemouth strategies. 
Ah, to see how the pros do it. The Rickey Hendersons and the Jose Cansecos notwithstanding, there still are the players short on salary and long on heart, players that care about the game. 
Look on, and see a one-handed Jim Abbott throw the first New York Yankee no-hitter since July 4, 1983. See Toroto's John Olerud flirt with .400. See Jim Leyland charge the mound for his Pirates. See Mike Bordick of the Oakland A's putting his soul into the game. See Braves second baseman Mark Lemke ecstatic after his hometown little league dedi­cates a concession stand to him. 
But while the sport of fishing is among the only tradition not soiled by the lure of televi­sion money, baseball is a different story. 
As if 162 games is not enough to determine a pennant winner, money has led owners to plan expanded playoffs with regional cover­age. Domes, carpet, luxury boxes and the des­ignated hitter were bad developments. 
But the allure remains, even for those still 
learning the basics. In the tradition of baseball 
and fishing, fans hope for another Ted 
Williams, another Miracle Mets, and we return 
time and again to the water, in the hope of one 
more fish. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Suzy Fry Mark Zito Emily Hage Ron Veldman 
Sports Business Jason Kelly Pancho Lozano Viewpoint Lynn Bauwens 
Rolando de Aguiar Graphics Lab Tech Chris Weirup John F. Bingham 
activists 
VIENNA 

Gypsies, Jews and human rights activists were in an 
Monday over reports that Premier Vladimir Meciar 
a had called Slovakia's Gypsies "socially 
and mentally backward." 

According to the Czech news agency CTK, Meciar made 
remarks on Saturday in the eastern Slovakia town of 
where Gypsies comprise 13 percent of the popula-

In a reference to Gypsies, Meciar reportedly said it was 
to curtail the "extended reproduction of the 
unadaptable and mentally backward population" 

decreasing family allowances. 
uring World War II, Gypsies were rounded up and texter·mina·ted. along with Jews in eastern Europe. Gypsies 
complamed of renewed discrimination since the col­
of Communist rule in 1989. 

Vienna, Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal, president of the League of ~ews Persecuted by the Nazi Regime, said Monday that his group protests Meciar's comment "most sharply." 
"Similar things were heard from the Nazis, who deport­~d thousands ?f Gypsies ... to death camps or, particularly m the East, killed them on the spot," Wiesenthal said in his statement. 
In a letter to Meciar, the Vienna-based International 
~elsinki .~ederation for Human Rights said it was 
appalled and demanded that he withdraw the "very unfortu':late remarks:" Report Says Security Breaches Undermme Peacekeepmg Operations 
Carrier JFK celebrates 

NORFOLK, Va. 

Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg was nine when she smashed a bottle of champagne on the USS John F. Kennedy. She's all grown up now and returned to Norfolk to mark the aircraft carrier's 25th anniversary. 
"It's really an honor to be back " she said Sunday at Norfolk Naval Bas~. "My father would be so proud of this memori­al. I'm proud of it." 
Schlossberg used a bowling pin to 
her swing as a child. When the 


istening took place, she said the 
of champagne surprised her. 

remember so well how extremely nervous I was chris­

ten!?g, beca.use} didn't know _how hard to swing the bot­
tle, she said. I never practiced with a bottle. It broke 
and champagne went all over the place.' 
She attended a gala on the ship and presented the carri­er's crew a copy of "Profiles in Courage," her father's book about politicians he admired. 

SARAJEVO 

Aid workers on Monday reported chilling tales of terror and torture of Muslim men in Croat-run detention camps in Bosnia. 
The storie_s --:-whic~ include ~eatings, random shootings and men drmkmg thmr own urme to avoid dehydration ­were told to a representative of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
They ha:V~ not _be.en ~depende~tly confirmed. But they bear a stnkmg simllanty to the disturbing stories that fil­tered out of Serb-run camps in northern Bosnia a year ago. 
Ray Wilkinson, a UNHCR spokesman in Sarajevo, quoted a report by agency officer Kirsten Young, who visited the released prisoners in the government-held town of Jablanica, southwest of Sarajevo. 

When the men were released on Aug. 31, "detainees c~aim they ~ere stripped to their underwear by the sol­diers. Survuvors claimed four of their group were execut­ed on the spot by machine-gun fire," Wilkinson said. 
"T?e rest ~ere terr~rized and ... escaped through no­m~n .s land With machme-gun fire over their heads," Wdkmson said. 
He said there were about 450 men released -350 from a camp in Dretelj and about 100 from Gabela. Both towns are near Capljina in Croat-held Herzegovina. 
Aidid undermines U.N. Somalia o 

WASHINGTON 
Forces of fugitive warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid have thoroughly infiltrated and undermined U.N. operations Somalia, U.S. military intelligence and diplomatic officials say in a published report. 
In a. story from Mogadishu in its Tuesday editions, The Washmgton Post quoted unidentified officials as say 
U.S. Army Rangers raided the office of the U.N. Development Program because guerrilla commanders used it _to plot sabotage against foreign troops. 
Officials of the development program angrily den knowledge of such misuse. However, the program's dent representative, Peter Schumann, said "I don't rule i out" when asked if the rebels might have gotten afte hours access to the office. 
U.S. officials told the Post the office was found to "conspicuously empty" and may have been used a hours before the raid by rebels who were tipped that rangers were coming. 
The problem of security breaches may result from fac~ that m~ny local Somalis hired under contract by Umted NatiOns to perform a range of services members of Aidid's subclan in the section of where U.N. headquarters is situated. 
"They work for u~ during the day and shoot at us night," a U.N. administrative officer said in what the called an apparent exaggeration. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 7. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, Sept. 7 Accu·Wealher~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

FRONTS: 
.............. ..&...&.. ......ar COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu·Weather. In<. Pressure ~ 
H L a ~S.S~ a11 0 IZ3 E.Jil -o-L-J. cCJ. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
v;. Auoaaled Pre111J 
City H L Jerusalem 82 63 Paris 68 43 london 64 52 Philadelphia 86 65
Athens 84 61 
los Angeles 83 65 Rome 84 64
Adanta 89 69 
Madrid 86 59 Seattle 71 52
Boston 75 64 
Minneapolis 65 46 Tokyo 84 79
Chicago 76 52 
Moscow 69 46 Washington, D.C. 86 69
Cleveland 79 52 
New York 86 64
Dallas 93 69
Via Associated Pross Grap/licsNel 01993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
Student tickets to go on sale for 'Rudy' premiere 
Special to The Observer 
A limited number of half price tickets for the gala pre­miere of Tri Star Pictures' "Rudy" will be available to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
"Rudy," filmed extensively on campus last fall and spring, is the first feature film produced with the University's coopera­tion since "Knute Rockne: All­American" in 1940. 
The premiere will take place Wednesday, Oct. 6 at 7:30 pm at South Bend's Morris Civic Auditorium and will include ap­pearances by the film's stars, a post-premiere party at Century Center and the Notre Dame Marching Band performing the original theme from the film. 
Secondary balcony tickets are on sale to students now through Sept. 17 at the special price of $25, which includes a souvenir ticket and program and the post-premiere party. 
The premiere is a benefit sponsored jointly by Notre Dame and the city of South Bend, with the proceeds to be divided equally between South Bend's Center for the Homeless and the scholarship fund of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph .. 
Half-price tickets are avail­
able at LaFortune Student 
Center. Students also may pur­
chase premiere tickets at the 
regular price of $50 at the 
Alumni Association office in the 
Main Building. 
Student Activities will offer 
some 200 third balcony seats for the premiere free to stu­dents through a lottery. The drawing for the tickets will be Sept. 30 and Oct. 1. The win­ners will be posted Oct. 2 at the LaFortune information desk. 
With Sean Astin in the title role, "Rudy" reunites director David Anspaugh and writer Angelo Pizzo, who created the 1986 hit "Hoosiers." "Rudy" recounts the experiences of 1976 Notre Dame graduate Daniel (Rudy) Ruettiger, a walk-on football player who be­came a campus legend for his appearance in the last 27 sec­onds of the final home game of 1975, a win over Georgia Tech. 
A transfer student who over­came numerous obstacles to at­tend Notre Dame, Ruettiger had spent two years on the football team's scout squad before earning the opportunity to play in the last game of his collegiate career. 
Rudy's 1975 moment of glory was reenacted for the cameras at halftime of Notre Dame's vic­tory over Boston College last November 7, with 59,000 fans in the role of extras. 
Starring with Sean Astin are Ned Beatty, Charles Dutton, Lili Taylor and Robert Prosky. The producers are Robert Fried and Cary Woods. The executive producer is Lee Mayes, the di­rector of photography is Oliver Wood and the production de­signer is Robb Wilson King. The editor is David Rosen­bloom, A.C.E., and the music is by Academy Award winner "Jerry Goldsmith. 

1'1'15 Observer/Eric Ruelhling 

Singing for success 

The Notre Dame Glee Club rehearses for this season's Friday evening pre-football concerts held each week in Crowley Hall at 4:45 p.m. They perform for fans every football weekend. 


Clinton tours storm-devastated area 
By TERENCE HUNT Associated Press 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. 
A year after Hurricane Andrew left its mark as America's most destructive nat­ural disaster, President Clinton today toured residential neigh­borhoods being rebuilt but still showing severe scars from the storm. 
"It looks a lot better than the last time I was here," Clinton said after walking down a street where homes were still being rebuilt with new roofs and windows. Leafless palm trees lined the boulevard. 
Florida City Mayor Otis Wallace said federal relief pro­grams "are having a very big impact on our community. 


Kke Rembnndt l..auln:c Ranington Magriw: Renoir Matiuc Rousseau 
Miro Scurat Monet Ulrilio O"Ka:fe Van Gogh Picasso Vc:rmc:cr 


We're very optimistic about the future."' 
There still were many signs of destruction. The windows in many homes were still boarded up and numerous buildings remained closed. 
As he arrived in Homestead, Clinton was asked about a re­port in The New York Times that he was considering new measures to spur the still slug­gish economy. "Anything I can do to stimulate the economy, I will," he said. 
The president started off Labor Day touring Florida City and meeting with senior citi­zens and community leaders in Homestead, home to an Air Force base ravaged by the storm. 
He also planned a traditional Labor Day speech in Miami, stressing public and private partnerships. 
Hurricane Andrew, packing 145 mph winds, took an aston­ishing toll on South Florida on Aug. 24, 1992. 
It left 41 dead, destroyed 
47,000 homes and heavily dam­aged 53,000 more. Damage was estimated at a staggering $30 billion. The storm earned the distinction of being the costliest and most destructive natural disaster in U.S. history. 
Today, 50,000 houses have been repaired, but thousands more are still being rebuilt. Many businesses are closed for­ever and an estimated 100,000 people have moved from the area. 
Homestead Air Force Base, which once provided jobs for 8,000 people, is being rebuilt but also scaled back. Clinton had made a campaign promise to rebuild it. 
The president flew to Florida on Sunday to spend an evening with political supporters and friends before today's appear­ances. 
Bright blue skies and warm temperatures greeted the pres­ident, his wife, Hillary. and their 13-year-old daughter. Chelsea. They were accompa­nied by the first lady's mother, Dorothy Rodham. 

ooking for fun? we are looking for ou --join SUB as 

am us Entertainment Commissioner Applications available now: 

Happy 


Big 21 
Jon Mattingly! 
We All Love You! 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
norance and loss of hope; and finally realization that !he rights granted by the Constitu­tion carry equally great and demanding responsibilities." 
The proposed national ser­vice initiative is rather unique in terms of a financial aid pro­gram, for participation is not limited to students who demon­strate monetary need. This aspect of the legislation was heavily debated in both the House and Senate. 

_ ·~ Opening the 
· • ~ program to 
~. _17 individuals of 
..~~ ' all back­
'' ~ g r o u n d s 
would not 
limit the pro­
gram to a corp 
of poor young
Edward people, but 
Malloy would create a common bond among diverse participants, according to House Education and Labor Chairman William Ford (D­Mich.) 
Malloy's testimony paralleled Fords remarks. 
"The desire to serve should not be constrained by consid­erations of race, socio-eco­nomic status or religion. Ser­vice is not just for the rich or the poor; it is for all members of our society and each should be encouraged to participate," Malloy said. 
The program "cannot suc­ceed if it does not draw per­sons from diverse backgrounds together share a common experience in support of the greater good," he said. 
But Malloy emphasize that neither could the program flourish at the expense of need­based programs such as Pell Grants or work-study. 
"Both national service and need-based aid have a place even in today's tight budgetary climate," said Malloy. 
"We cannot forget that more and more students come from non-traditional backgrounds which do not afford them the opportunity to participate in full-time national service. We should not be making trade­offs between needy students and service, but rather we should be looking at service as national as its title suggests," he said. 
To learn more about the Planned Giving Program, call us today. It's the fl.rst step in making a memory that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
,}a American Heart V Association 

By TERRY MUTCHLER 
Associated Press 

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. 
It could be the Anita Hill thing. It could be a fluke. Or it could be that women have paid their dues. 
For the first time in the United States, according to two national groups, women are pursuing all of a state's five top elected posts. 
In the 1994 election, women want to take over the Illinois offices of governor, treasurer, comptroller, attorney general and secretary of state. And some said privately they would 
Act 

continued from page 1 
providing structured service opportunities with visible bene­fits to the participants and community," according to the report. 
Individuals accepted into the program would be assigned to a service project in accordance with the skills expressed in the application process. 
As written, the national com­munity service program is guaranteed funding for only three years. The conference committee authorized $300 million for fiscal year 1994, $500 million for fiscal year 1995, and $700 million for fis­cal year 1996. The House would have liked to have seen the program authorized for five years, but agreed to the three year compromise in confer­ence. 
This limited authorization is aimed at giving the program the opportunity to develop and to grow without turning it into an entitlement program. 
In preparation for possible implementation of the Act, "Summer of Service," a pilot project for the legislation, brought about 1,500 of the.na­tions youth to San Francisco this summer for eight weeks of community service. 
Participants worked in 16 community programs earning a stipend of $4.25 an hour and $1,000 educational award. These individuals then met with President Clinton on Au­gust 31 at the University of Maryland in College Park: MD to discuss the future of natwnal service. 
The Senate is likely to take a final vote on the National and Community Service Act of 1993 upon return from their recess this week. 

Women politicians make Illinois 'herstory' 
consider a run for lieutenant governor if a candidate for gov­ernor wanted them as a ticket­mate. 
"This is an important state to watch. Anytime you have a record number of women run­ning ... you can change the face of government," said Pat Reilly, a spokeswoman for the National Women's Political Caucus in Washington, D.C. 
"Illinois was really the first state out of the gate to mark the 'Year of the Woman' in pol­itics," she said. 
Susan Carroll, senior researcher for Rutgers University's Center for the American Woman and Politics in New Jersey, cites a combina­tion of factors, including Anita Hill's testimony at the Senate confirmation hearings for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. 
"A collective click took place, and people realized that when women are not present the sen­sitivity of certain kinds of issues is just not likely to be there," she said. 
Kansas state Rep. Jo Ann Pottorff, former chairwoman of the Women's Network for the National Conference of State Legislators, said voters consid­er women accessible, and female candidates are capitaliz­ing on that. 
"The public sees women as almost closer to the people," she said. "Women have run a household; they've raised fami­lies. Although a man's part of that, women are the more nur­turing individuals." 
In Illinois, some women for­mally announced for the 1994 race, and others say they will announce this fall. 
Democratic Comptroller Dawn Netsch is running for governor. Democratic state Sen. Earlean Collins and Loleta Didrickson, Republican director of the Department of Employment Security, want the comptroller's chair. 
Democratic state Sen. Penny Severns and Republican state Sen. Judy Topinka are up for the treasurer's spot, along with Democrats Sheila Smith, a busi­nesswoman, and Nancy Sheehan, a commissioner on 
the Cook County Metropolitan 
Water Reclamation District. 
Kane County Coroner Mary~~~~~~~Lou Kearns, a Democrat, announced a bid for secretary of state, and Chicago lawyer Anne Burke said she will run 
for attorney general. 

ND/SMC PRE..LAW SOCIETY 

Meeting For Seniors 
Dean Link of the Law School will be there to discuss personal statements 


TONIGHT 
7:30 Cushing Hall 
By CARL HARTMAN .tWodated Pre$$ WASHINGTON 
Educating girls as well as boys may be the best invest­ment developing countries can make in their futures, according to a new study by the World Bank. 
Women with even .an elementary education raise the living standard in a poor country. argues Elizabeth King, one of the study's authors. They. have fewer children, take better care of those they do have, work bet­ter at home and earn more when they take. a job or ~ar­ket their own crops, she s&d. 
''Education of girls may seem an odd subject for an economist to address,.. said . former World Bank official Lawrence Summers, who is undersecretary of the Treasury for international affairs. "But enhancing women's contribution to development ls as much an economic as a social issue." 
Summers, former chief economist at the World Bank, wrote the foreword to the study, . C(l.lled ''Women's Education in Developing Countries: Barriers, Benefits and Policies." The World 
:Bani!., owned by 176 coun:­
""tries, is thelargest source of aid loans to the Third World. The ·United States is the 
biggest stockholder. 
"Once all the benefits are re<;ognized. irtvestment in the 

L 
0 
~ 
v 
1357 N Ironwood Corner of Edison &Ironwood 

Teaching girls to make Third World richer 
education of girls may well be 
the highest~retum investment 
available in the developing 
world," Summers wrote. 
There are obstacles in many 
countries to a girl's getting 
into school and staying there, 
King said in an interview. 
She quoted the head­mistress of a girl's school in Pakistan: 
"There's no light, no fan. It is very depressing and dreary and suffocating. There is no toile.t. When they need a latrine, the girls have to go home during school hours, wasting a considerable amount of time." 
And a woman in the north­west African republic of Mali: 
"School is considered by parents to encourage promis­cuity among adolescents because they promote a Western-style liberal educa­tion which encourages sexual­ity." 
Many parents feel they can­not afford the cost of sending a girl to school, King said. In some countries, the smallest girls -often as young as five -are expected to help their mothers, much more than boys. 
The study takes a look at the education of 18-year-olds in some poor and some richer countries. It found that a boy in the West Afrjcan republic of Benin, for example, could be expected to have spent seven years in school but a girl only half as long. 

WELCOME BACK 
20o/o Discount 
on f uiJ Service 
Must have Student 10 full SePVice Salon Hair> • S~in • Nails 
AVEDA~ 
TilE Al\1 ANI l S< :lEN< 'E 

<lll'lJI\E HJW(/1'1\ t\Nil I'Ll\ NT I'"SLNl T~ Hair Care • Skin Care • Colour Cnsnll'l irs 
234-6767 

li~~~iiiiiiiijjiiiiiiiii~if 


------------------~-------------~--------~-----------------------~--------~~--------.---~­
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

A religious right how-to, fron1 the pews into the precincts 
Editor's note: The following is part two in a series. 
By jOHN KING Associated Press 
VISTA, Calif. 

If, as Pat Robertson says, it is time to bring God back into the schools, then once tranquil Vista and its "Policy No. 6019: Teaching Science" are destined to make history. 
Inspired by victory in this San Diego suburb, religious conser­vatives across America are fighting to take over public schools. They are targeting school board elections, demanding curriculum changes, challenging sex edu­cation programs, pushing for prayer in the classroom and purging reading lists and libraries. 

This is sophisticated politics: state-of-the art fund-raising and mass communications sup­plemented by old-fashioned, vigilant foot soldiers recruited from evangelical, fundamental­
ist and other conservative churches. 
It offers a revealing look at the strategy the religious right adopted in the aftermath of Robertson's failed 1988 presi­dential campaign: Pour resources into local politics, from school and library boards to county commissions and state legislatures. 
"We're looking for men and women candidates who want to run for office -school board, dog catcher, anything," says Pat Gartland, the Christian Coalition's director in Georgia. "We're getting people from the pews into the precincts." 
While low-turnout elections for school boards and other 
local posts are the immediate target, these ,groups also hope to develop a pool of candidates for higher offices. Already, the religious right and its allies have made inroads in a number of state legislatures: Pennsylvania, Montana, Idaho, Oregon and Washington among them. 
Both the Christian Coalition and another religious right powerhouse, Citizens for Excellence in Education, are encouraging Christians to run for office and teaching them how to campaign. 
"The Bible, being the only true source on right and wrong, should be the guide of board members," says CEE's Robert L. Simonds in his handbook on how to elect Christians to high­er office. "Government from the president on down should be as permeated with Christians as it now is with secularists." 
To get one ofthese cards, students must be prepared to answer this multiple choice question. A. B. D D AT&T Universal MasterCard. AT&T Calling Card. Offers the convenience of a MasterCard® credit Lets vou make calls to or from almost card that's free of annual fees for life. plus an anywhere at AT&T'S low rates. AT&T Calling Card that currently gives you a 10% discount on already competitive .\T&T Calling Card rates. C. D AT&T Custom Calling'" Card. Lets vou call the numbers that vou and your parents preselect, and have the bill sent home. Which is the best calling card for students? There are three schools of-thought­the AT&T Universal MasterCard, the AT&T Calling Card, and the AT&T Custom Calling'" Card. Each one offers personalized services to meet your needs. It's all part of The i Plan:· Which means that no matter which card you choose, you can't fail. --To apply, come by our booth on campus or call -1800 654-0471, Ext. 4125.. AT&T  

Citizens for Excellence in Education claims more than 3,000 of its members have been elected to school boards nation­wide, but refuses to identify them. 
People for the American Way, which monitors Christian activist political activity, believes that figure is inflated. But even this liberal group esti­mates CEE has elected more than 1,000 of its followers to school boards. It estimated that 40 percent of candidates backed in 1992 by Christian right organizations won. 
"The school board stuff is probably the biggest growth industry in the right wing," said Michael Hudson, People for the American Way's Western direc­tor. 
Vista, a growing middle-class community of 76,000 with a school population of 21,000, has become a battleground for Christian activists and oppo­nents who emerged after Christian right successes in 1990 local elections. 
The two camps are bitterly divided over Policy 6019, which the Vista school board adopted last month in defiance of its teachers union and state educa­tion guidelines. It requires schools to teach, as an alterna­tive theory to evolution, that God created the Earth and its inhabitants in six days. 
To local resident Ruth Steiner, the decision ignores the Founding Fathers and their "wisdom in building a wall between church and state." 
The board's majority saw things differently. 
"We now have creationism on 
an equal footing with evolu­
tion," said Deidre Holliday, the 
board president. She is a mem­
ber of the National Association 
of Christian Educators, sister 
organization to Simonds' neu­
trally named Citizens for 
Excellence in Education. 
Similar efforts abound: 
•In 
New York City, Catholic and black groups joined forces with Christian conservatives this spring to oppose the city's liberal education policies. Together they distributed 500,000 voter guides in 1,200 churches. The Christian Coalition says 66 like-minded candidates won. 

•In 
Duval County, Fla. (includ­ing Jacksonville), the school board's conservative 4-3 major­ity adopted "Teen Aid," an abstinence-only sex education program that does not mention birth control. 


NEXT: GOP being trans­formed by Christian activists. 
$3.75 ALL SHOWS BEFORE 6PM 
~ itVfill>.\l.f ~ 291-4583 
.... 1:45 ~~ ~:~~ 
900 
Hard Target 
12:45 3:00 5:15 7:30 10:00 Needful Thlnga 2:00 4:30 7:00 9:45 

-
Secret Garden 
~ 

Q 
12:30 2:30 4:45 6:45 8:45 
Sleep!... in S..tUe 
12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 Sonlnl.lw 1:00 3:00 5:00 7:00 9:15 

~~~ 
Ttl1tN l tW.llll' • 2 
•

... !.'
Daily
..... 
Sat, Sun, Mon 4:15 7:00 10:00
~lliill 
In the Line of A,.

."".... ~:~9 
Sat. s~~~:r'307 ~s 9:45 Gillli Robin Hood: Mon In Tlghlo
.... Daily 5:00 7:15 9:30 
, Sun, Mon 12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30
lliii"" 

----------------------· 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 7, 1993 

New ambassador faces old problems 
War and distance bond 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 


father and son 

MEXICO CITY 
The new U.S. ambassador has been front-page news for weeks -not particularly good, either -and he isn't even here yet. 
After James Jones told the U.S. Senate he would be willing to pressure Mexico on such domes­tic issues as election fraud and government corruption, politi­cians and the press fretted that he would be an interventionist. 
They have calmed down since, but intend to keep an eye on him. 
"We think the statements were unfortunate," Mario del Valle Fernandez, a legislator from the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party, told The Associated Press last week. 
"For us, these are domestic issues, issues of sovereignty. Mr. Jones needs to respect us and listen to our point of view. And he needs to be careful what he says." 
Mexico's relations with American ambassadors often have been difficult. Jones says he will be different, but he may have to prove it. 
John Gavin, who once held the job, likened it to walking through a minefield. 
In a telephone interview, Jones said the news reports did not bother him and that he would not interfere in Mexico's internal affairs. 
He said his comment to Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., during his confirmation hearing in July was blown out of proportion by the Mexican press. 
"Once the reporters get to know me and my way of opera­tion, there won't be any prob­lem," he said. Jones is scheduled to arrive in Mexico Tuesday to assume his new job overseeing Washington's largest diplomatic mission. 
Life has never been easy for 
U.S. ambassadors in a country that has an Intervention Museum dedicated to teaching children about how the Americans have tampered with Mexico over nearly two centuries. 
The relationship of the two countries has been a compli­cated. contentious one conducted over a 2,000-mile border. Mexico has accused numerous U.S. ambassadors of meddling. 
Historians blame Ambassador Henry Wilson (1909-13) for the overthrow and execution of President Francisco Madero and Vice President Jose Maria Pino Suarez after Madero replaced dictator Porfirio Diaz, a U.S. ally. 
Mexico's rejection of John Slidell as ambassabor was a pre­text for the war with Mexico in 1846. The treaty ending the war in 1848, which ceded much of what is now the U.S. Southwest for $15 million, is viewed by Mexicans as a national humilia­tion. 
"I understand that there are historical reasons for the posi­tions they take," Jones said of the Mexican press. "In the past, the United States has had a paternalistic attitude toward Latin America. 
"I hope to show that I am a member of a new generation of political leadership that wants to develop a new relationship with Mexico." 
Jones, 54, was chairman of the American Stock Exchange for four years. a congressman from Oklahoma in 1973-86, and President Lyndon Johnson's chief of staff. 
"During my time in public ser­vice, I've found that the good sto­ries about me make me out to be better than I am and the bad sto­ries about me make me out to be worse than I am," he said. 
The Mexican press also ac­cused current Ambassador John Negroponte of being in­terventionist before he arrived in 1989. 
Negroponte was accused of involvement in the Iran-Contra affair while ambassador in Honduras from 1982-85. He denied the charges. 

Mexicans have not warred with all U.S. envoys. 
They loved Dwight Morro"' (1927 -30) for understanding their culture and helping nego­tiate the end of the Cristero War (1926-29). He endeared himsell to Mexicans by playing poker with President Plutarco Calles. 
Charles Pilliod (1986-1989), the retired chairman ol Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., arrived when relations were strained over immigration and drug trafficking. He signed sev­eral important treaties dealing with the drug trade and crime in general. 
Gavin (1981-86), appointed by President Ronald Reagan, was an actor well-known in Mexico through movie roles. His fluent Spanish and degree in Latin American economic history gave him ready access to Mexican officials and helped arrange for 
U.S. assistance in Mexico's eco­nomic crisis. 
Still, the press accused the U.S. Embassy of meddling when one of Gavin's deputies met with gov­ernment and opposition politi­cians. The ambassador made trouble for himself by asserting that at least two Mexican gover­nors were "up to their elbows in the drug trade." 
Julian Nava (1980-81), the first Mexican-American ambassador, irked Mexicans by questioning the country's friendship with Fidel Castro's Cuba. 
The appointment of Patrick Lucey (1977 -79) was criticized as a political payback for helping President Jimmy Carter win the Wisconsin primary. The former governor had no diplomatic experience and spoke no Spanish. 
Mexican distrust of U.S. am­bassadors began with the first one, Joel Poinsett, 1825-29. 
Poinsett eventually was de­clared persona non grata after suggesting that Texas, then part of Mexico, be sold to the United States. 
By AIDA CER.KEZ Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

It's a story as old as mankind, a story of an aim­less son and a worried father, a tale of hardship and growth and love. 
Nedim and Maid Rifatbegovic were like many fathers and sons before war broke out in Bosnia 17 months ago. They couldn't quite find the time to get to know each other. 
Now they are like few oth­ers. Separated by hundreds of miles, they are bound by shared hardship. Maid, 23, strong and healthy, became the protector to his' 56-year· old father, a journalist crip­pled by polio, before his father sought safe refuge else­where. 
..Before the war we lived our own lives, but when the war started I saw that he was lost and helpless," Maid said, sitting ln a rocking chair in the family apartment sur­rounded by his father's books. "( realized how much I loved him. I would give 100 lives for him." 
Hundreds of miles away, the eyes of Nedim, a refugee sit­ting at a cafe table in Frankfurt, Germany, misted over and he turned his head away frequently as he talked about the son who kept him alive for eight awful months. 
Maid, with his closely cropped military-type haircut, is a young and healthy version of his father. But Nedlm said his son was lazy as a teen­ager, the type of student who would sleep until 1 p.m. When Nedi sent his wife and two other sons out of the country before the war started last year, he worried how he and Maid were going to survive. 
The polio has left him with almost no use of one arm and limited use of one leg. 
"For me, opening a can or washing myself with a few liters of water in a pot is impossible. But Maid did the laundry, cooked, took care of me and spent night after night fighting in the trench," the father said. 
Nedim has documented his eight months o,f horror in a book dedicated to his son. The one time he walked across Sarajevo to collect water him· self was a terrifying experi­ence. 
"Snipers were shooting all along the way," Nedim said. "I felt so alone with this damned canister. the can and one arm." 
He would pick up the canis· ter. carry it a few steps along the street, go back for the can, then repeat the whole process. 
Thus they survived togeth­er, the soldier son and the writer father. 
"lt is amazing how capable he is in civilization," Maid said of his father. " But in this wildness where there are no rules, he is helpless. He is perfect for a world where words count. but this is not a time for words." 
"Weapons are talking now, and 1 had to stand in front of him," the son said. Finally, with winter coming, the crip­pled father was smuggled out of Sarajevo to join the rest of the family in Germany. 
Maid, who as a soldier had no choice but to stay behif!.d, reread his father's books and articles in Oslobodjenje, the main Sarajevo daily newspa­per, and gained a deeper appreciation of him. His father wrote during the win­ter and told him to burn the furniture, and even his beloved books, to keep warm. Maid didn't. 
The younger man did find himself a wife, 23-year-old Dijana, whom his father has never met. But he is con­vinced that "she must be a good girl if my son decided to marry her." 
What remains for the rela­tionship is reunion when the war is over. 
"I'd like to see him again," Maid said of his father. ''I'd like to see him sitting next to a fireplace, reading and writ­ing. I'm stronger, I'm a sol· dier. He is a poet. He was not made for war." 



1993 Activities Night 
Tuesday, September 7 7-10 p.m. JACC (Gate 3) 
©~ll u~ ©l®rFJ@ ~ ©uw®oo~®OO®oo@ 
to meet your interests: 
•Music Clubs ,, 
•Athletic Societies 
•Special Interest Clubs 
•Academic Clubs 
•Social/Service Organizations 
•Ethnic Clubs 

•Media Organizations 
Meet New Friends Get Involved in the Spirit of ND/SMC 
University of Notre J)ame lntcrnationol Study l'rogram in 

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETINGS WITH PROFESSOR ANGELA UORELLI 
WED:'\ESDAY, SEI'TEI\1BER 8, 1993 4:Jo r.l\1. 202 DEHARTOL.Q 

WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 22, 1993 
6:30 P.M. 202 DEBARTOLO 

SPRING 1994 APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 15, 1993 
FALL 19U OR ACADEMIC YEAR 1994-95 APPLICATION DEADLINE DECEMBER I, 1993 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, Cub Coordination Council and the Center for Social Concerns 

Tuesday, September 7, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Arafat readies next step toward Arab support 
By ZINA HEMADY 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Yasser Arafat brought his campaign to sell the PLO­Israeli peace agreement to Egypt on Monday after receiv­ing lukewarm support in Syria. 
The agreement calls for Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho -a small por­tion of the Arab land Israel has occupied since 1967. 
Before arriving in Egypt, the only Arab country that has given wholehearted support to the plan, the PLO chief picked up endorsements for the accord from the Gulf Cooperation Council, a six­nation group lead by Saudi Arabia. 
It called the accord "a first step toward reaching a just, lasting and comprehensive set­tlement to the Palestinian problem and the Arab-Israeli conflict." 
In Syria, Arafat met for six and a half hours with President Hafez Assad, who asked to study the plan more fully. The Palestine Liberation Organization took Assad's re­quest as an expression of sup­port, with reservations, a PLO official said in Cairo, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
If Assad's backing material­izes, it could help Arafat secure approval for the plan from the PLO's ruling Executive Committee. Hard­line PLO factions based in Damascus are represented in the ruling body, and Assad has influence over them, although he does not control them. 
The PLO Executive Committee meeting could begin this week. Israel has already approved the deal. 
Radical Palestinian groups and even members of Arafat's own faction have said the agreement contains no guaran­tees for a Palestinian state and avoids dealing with the status of Jerusalem, Israeli settle­ments and the 3.5 million Palestinian refugees who live outside the occupied territo­ries. 
Muslim fundamentalist groups oppose any deal with Israel. 
After Arafat's visit to 


KAPLAN Test Prep Welcomes You Back! LSAT Classes for the October 2, 1993 Exam 
start this week: 
Thursday, September 2 1717 E. South Bend Avenue EXPERIENCE KAPLAN TOTAL TRAINING ANYTHING ELSE IS PARTIAL PREP Call 1, 8QQ, KAP, TEST to enroll. 




KAPLAN 
The answer to thetest question 
Damascus, Syrian Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa went to Lebanon, apparently to try to soften Lebanese outrage over the PLO's separate deal with Israel. Israel was exchanging mortar fire with Lebanese militias less than a week ago. 
Sources at the headquarters of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine -the two largest groups in the PLO after Arafat's Fatah faction ­said they rejected Arafat's re­quest for meetings in Damascus. 
In Egypt, Arafat was likely to have an easier time. 
Egypt's foreign policy is based on its peace with Israel, which President Anwar Sadat signed in 1979, and friendship with the United States. Arafat and most other Arabs broke relations with Cairo because of that peace agreement. 
The draft Arafat is ready to sign with Israel grants Palestinian autonomy in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. The fate of the rest of the Israeli­occupied lands, including Arab east Jerusalem, is left undeter­mined for as long as five years. 
Arafat was greeted at Cairo International Airport by Foreign Minister Amr Moussa and was to meet on Tuesday with President Hosni Mubarak. 
Egypt was the first to endorse the plan, and Moussa has urged the Arabs to support it as a springboard to eventual Palestinian control over all the occupied lands -the same ap­peal Arafat has been making. 
Yoel Singer, an Israeli nego­tiator, and an Arab source close to the peace talks who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty said Israel and the PLO were near final agreement on letters of mutual recognition that would permit the peace plan to proceed. 
Israel wants the PLO to amend a 1968 covenant calling for the use of armed force to supplant the Jewish state with a Palestinian one. It also wants the PLO to declare an end to terrorism and violence, includ­ing the nearly six-year Palestinian uprising against Israeli military rule. 
Islamic groups between bullets and words 
By NEIL MACFARQUHAR 
Associated Press 
JABALIYA CAMP, Occupied 
Gaza Strip 

Wall slogans signed by Islamic activists scream for Jewish blood and prayer lead­ers espouse the gun as the only way to achieve a Palestinian state. 
But Islamic activists in groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad appear divided about whether bullets or just violent words will defeat the plan to start Palestinian autono·my in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank city of Jericho. 
A minority argues that a guerrilla campaign against Israel and the PLO is the only way to destroy the Jewish state. 
The others, while not ruling out guns entirely, think the lim­ited scope of the plan combined with the corruption that has long plagued the PLO will sink Yasser Arafat in Gaza. 
They could then use their al­ready formidable strength in the fetid alleyways of the refugee camps to win at the ballot box. 
"Seven years ago the Islamic groups had few supporters in Gaza. Now they have at least 50 percent," said Dr. Saud Shawa, a 37 -year-old veterinarian and Hamas supporter. "In the end the only realistic alternative is an Islamic state." 
A few scuffles and scattered gunshots are the only violence to date. But threats hover ev­erywhere. 
Banners say things like "To the sellers of Palestine: The bullet that shot at the heart of Sadat will be shot at your hearts," referring to the 1981 assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat after he signed a peace treaty with Israel. 
Wall slogans, the Gaza equiv­alent of a town crier, scream: "We don't recognize Gaza and Jericho and we will continue slaughtering the Jews until the last drop of our blood." 
It's in sermons, too. 
"The solution will come through the gun," Dr. Jasim Muttawa. a pediatrician. told followers at Ezzedin Al-Kassem Mosque. 
In an interview, Muttawa· said he would rally opponents by stressing the plan's flaws, not violence. 
"We will resist fragmenting the Palestinian people," he said. 
While Israel and the PLO have agreed on the plan's de­tails, expected recognition be­tween Israel and the PLO is de­laying its signing. Authorities are bracing for violence both from Islamic activists and from militant Jewish nationalists who think the plan betrays the biblical vision of Greater Israel. 
Arab rejectionists attack the delay in discussing the status of Jerusalem, whose eastern, Arab sector fell to Israel in the 1967 Middle East war. They want it as their capital because it contains Al-Aqsa Mosque, the third holiest in the faith, and key secular institutions. 
Muttawa said about 10 per­cent of the Islamic leaders preach violence, with an un­written consensus among 90 percent that mosque rallies were enough to educate people against the plan. 
"We are not talking about demonstrations," Muttawa said. "Demonstrate against who?" 
Instead, they make fun of the PLO. 
"Now everything has changed, even the name of the PLO. Now it's the Gaza Liberation Organization," said Shawa. ' 
Islamic activists know they are battling three factors. First, Arafat retains hero status; a new brand of shampoo released this week in Gaza was even named after his wife, Soha. 
Second, Israel's sealing the territories last March means the unemployment rate among the 750,000 Gazans hovers around 70 percent. There are high hopes that peace will bring development jobs. 
Third, no one wants Israeli soldiers around. 
But more than an Israeli withdrawal, the agreement spells out that the Palestinians will stop attacks on Israel. That goes against the basic strategy oflslamic groups. 
"The Islamic opponents established a clear red line. They said, 'Go ahead and sign the agreement. We are not go­ing to cut off your hands,"' said Adnan Salim, a former activist. "But in return you are not go­ing to stop us from continuing our armed struggle." 
The return of the 400 depor­tees exiled to the border with Lebanon since last December, expected to start this week, will boost Islamic activists' cause. 
Islamic leaders said they will get support from other move­ments in Algeria, Egypt and Iran. 
"Everyone thinks Arafat is not entitled to negotiate over Palestine because this piece of land does not belong to him only, but to all Muslims," said Salim. 
Fighters say they will shoot anyone who blocks them, in­cluding a Palestinian police force; Palestinians have already killed more than 750 fellow Arabs suspected of collabora­tion during the six-year upris­ing against Israel's occupation. 
Tuesday, September 7, 1993

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 

Colorado Institute battles inhalant abuse 
ByAMY LIGNITZ 


ENGLEWOOD. Colo, 
When Ryan Unk came home after a night out with his friends, it wasn't smoke oral~ cobol his parents smelled on hls breath -it was gasoline. 
Ryan, 17. was a "buffer"­someone who inhales fumes from gasoline, hairspray, bu~ tane, or any number of house~ hold products to get a cheap high. 
When Ryan's parents sought help, their minister advised 

. them to "make light or· their son's substance abuse. The family doctor and the high school counselor didn't know how to handle Ryan's, prob~ lem, ·and other parents thought the Links made too much ofit. Parents and educators often dismiss the dangers of huff~ ing, despite its prevalence, its Increasing popularity among teens and its potential deadli~ ness. said Catherine Macintyre, the director of the International Institute for Inhalant Abuse in Englewood. Nearly one-fifth of American high school seniors have tried to get high from some kind of inhalant. according to a 1991 study by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Inhalants rank fourth in popularity among schoolchildren, behind alcohol, tobacco and marijua­na, but ahead of LSD and cocaine. Of Colorado eighth-graders. 21 percent reported using in­halants at least once in their lifetimes, according to a sur­vey. Inhalents were also the drug of choice for eighth~ graders across the country. according to a University of Michigan study released this spring. Inhalant institute officials say huffing is attractive to juveniles because it is cheap and the products themselves are legal. Worse, it causes more irreversible physical damage than other drugs, and can kill on the frrst try. The problem crosses cultur~ al, economic and social lines: 
•Macintyre 
recently got a call from a prevention specialM ist in Nebraska. who said kindergartners were caught huffing gasoline from baby· food jars. They had seen a second-grader do it. 

•In 
Japan, where pressure to succeed scholastically is enormous and drug laws are strict, many teens buff. On New Year's Eve, five school­girls leaped eight stories from an apartment building in Tamari in a group suicide attempt after sniffing paint thinner. Three died. 


. •In April. a 33·year-old 

mother of eight was'......."'.•,,,.,. ing in a ravine Colo. Officially 
but U~l:t.!-Uil IJI~ll;ltl,ll:i 
v(;)rsion, dally habit for 

'Tdidn't cr said. "It was when there was ••,..~....,a.:.,:''""" to do. We were . . 
·Ryan and four ll1or~ friends would hallu~ill.ate when they huffed: h,e ,said their hair seemed ·to ehll,ng.=\ color, or people appeared to be choking on toothpicks that weren't there. 

Ryan'S "'"''•""' .. u.<u~utJr; a.uu:. memory de1~ertora,tecl was huffing, !)aid Dick Link. His -from a 3.5 average in 01X11U!L• Kl 
0.8 GPAin result, he ball, football 

H:e grew · . . kicking in doors · verbally abusing his mother, hiS fa1;h,er said. · J% 
Link wiU be a senior at Berthoud High School this.fall, and it has been 18 months since he huffed. His father credits Macintyre's inh~:dant institute. 
The 2-year-old 
tnsUtuWJS clearinghouse for ......,.....,,..... search and .......,.v~m 
grams. Dr. the institute's ......"........,.,.. tor, concentrates on re$et~,rcb, while Macintyre crisscrosses the country talking to stu­dents, police, emergency med­ical workers and parents. She frequently takes Ryan Link with her. 
"We've heard over and over that the parents are relieved it's not cocaine," she said. "Parents think this is the glue-sniffing of the '60s, and it's not." 
Today, buffers don't merely spray an aerosol ontheir sleeve or in a pap . bag sniff it. Many directly from lighters. or straight from -.,.,,•.,......•...· said. 
Until a few ing wasn't among teens: 

Happy 21st Birthday 

Tina 
Love, Dad, Mom, and Kathy 
Lesbian seeks custody ofher own son 
By LARRY O'DELL 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va. 
Gay rights advocates are closely watching a potential landmark case in Virginia, where a judge this week will consider whether a woman may retain custody of her les­bian daughter's 2-year-old son. 
It is a highly unusual custody battle because it pits a nonpar­ant against a mother whose only alleged parental shortcom­ing has been her sexual rela­tionship. A trial is scheduled for Tuesday in Henrico County Circuit Court. 
Sharon Bottoms, 23, lives with her partner, 27 -year-old April Wade. Kay Bottoms, 42, contends that fact makes her daughter unfit to be a mother. 
"The question is whether a parent should be disqualified because of sexual orientation or lifestyle," said Donald Butler, Sharon Bottoms' lawyer. "We don't think the law should allow people to lose a child on that basis." 
A different answer to the question Butler posed comes from Anne Kincaid, spokes­woman for the Family Foundation, a conservative Virginia group that says it has 30,000 members. 
"Is it discrimination based on sexual orientation or is it child protection based on the moth­er's sexual behavior?" she said. "It looks like there would be a compelling state interest to pro­tect the child." 
"It's important to note the difference between sexual ori­entation and sexual behavior," Kincaid added. "Historically, society views homosexuality as immoral behavior, and that's always been a criteria for re­moving a child from the home." 
Abby Abinanti, legal director for the National Center for Lesbian Rights in San Francisco, said she knows of no other case quite like this one. 
"There have been cases where a child was raised by two lesbians, the birth mother dies and the partner is chal­lenged for custody," she said. "The courts have struggled with that and have come out with different rulings." 
Usually, she said, the person seeking custody is the other parent. In Bottoms' case, the father and ex-husband are not involved. 
Henrico County juvenile court Judge William Boice awarded custody of Tyler Doustou to the boy's grandmother last March, relying on a 1985 Virginia Supreme Court ruling that said a parent's homosexuality is a legitimate reason for losing custody. That case, however, involved a mother who sued her gay ex-husband for custody of their child. 
"This case is an entirely dif­ferent set of facts," Butler said. 
Sharon Bottoms, who has had limited visitation rights since Boice's ruling, and Wade decid­ed to fight for custody. Their phone number is unlisted, and Butler says he has advised his 

Stop by The Observer's booth at Activities Night. 
Michigan 


Road 
Trip 
client not to talk publicly about the case before the trial. 
The dispute "certainly has caused her a great deal of heartache," Butler said. "Even if she had her child, the threat that the state could step in and take the child away would be heartache enough." 
Kay Bottoms' lawyer, Richard Ryder, did not return a re­porter's repeated phone calls. However, he told the Richmond Times-Dispatch in an interview last May that "the lesbian rela­tionship is detrimental to the child and will get more so in the future." 
Kent Willis, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union in Virginia, disagreed. The ACLU is assisting Sharon Bottoms' lawyers, who "will argue that the principles that were applied in the Supreme Court ruling were wrong then and even appear antiquated eight years later," Willis said. 
"There is ample evidence that gays and lesbians make good parents," he said. 
"What really needs to be looked at is parenting skills," Abinanti said. "The best inter­est of the child is not adversely impacted by the sexual orienta­tion of the parent." 
Charlotte Patterson, a University of Virginia psychol­ogy professor who has studied children of homosexuals, said children of gays generally have no more problems than other children. 
Patterson studied 37 children of lesbians in the San Francisco area in 1990 and 1991. Some of the children were adopted, but most were conceived through artificial insemination. The study examined the sexual identity, social skills and self­concept of the children, whose average age was six. 
"The basic finding was that children of lesbian parents are developing much like children of heterosexual parents," Patterson said. 

Catch the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan September 11th 
Round trip bus transportation to Michigan Stadium (bus leaves at 6 a.m. from CCE) Donuts and juice provided 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 7 





BUSINESS 
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 page 9 
Renault, Volvo announce long-awaited merger will be Jan. 1 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

France's Renault SA and Sweden's Volvo AB announced today that they will merge on Jan. 1, forming the world's sixth largest automaker in an alliance intended to boost their global competitiveness. 
The companies together pro­duced more than 2.4 million vehicles last year, with com­bined sales of some $38 billion. Only General Motors, Ford, Toyota, Volkswagen and Nissan are larger. 
The merger also creates the world's second-largest truck manufacturer after Mercedes­Benz, and the European leader in buses. 
Renault will own 65 percent of the combined group, but 

Existing health benefits would remain tax free 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Workers' existing health benefits would remain tax-free even if they exceed the benefits in the Clinton health plan, a White House spokesman said 
IT ONLY 
TASTES 


EXPENSIVE 

~~-,.. . 
It's purely delicious Culligan. Drinking Water in a bottle. 
Call your local Culligan fvlan today. You can pay more, 
but you can't get bette!. 
Call289-6371 to enjoy Culligan. bottled 
water delivered right to your door. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Business Writers 

Experienced writers with business knowledge for the business page, contact Pancho or Meredith at 631-5323 for more information. 
Welcome Back Everyone! 
Come Check Us Out--NO EXPERIENCE· NECESSARY!!! /__/~ l=n How To Rjde Western CX EnWJSh, -~


NDlSMC/ 
Just For Fun, Or Compete If You Wish! -{ 
weHo~ToseevouAt .£queStJ:i!lrlJ 
ND Activities Night-Tuesday, Sept. 7 RIDINC CENTER

club 
SMC Activities Night-Wednesday, Sept. 8 Volvo will have veto power on major strategic decisions. 
The merger had been ex­pected for more than a year. The two companies have coop­erated on purchasing and de­velopment for more than 3 1/2 years and own large portions of each other's stock. 
The arrangement brings to­gether two national treasures. Volvo is Sweden's largest in­dustrial company. while Renault is one of the most prof­itable and best known of the French state-owned companies headed for privatization within the next two years. 
Renault, which has become one of the most profitable au­tomakers in Europe since a 1986 government bailout, earned $1· billion on sales of 
Monday. 

The Clinton administration sought to allay concerns about the new limit on tax breaks for employer-provided health ben­efits that will be part of its forthcoming reform package. 
Senior administration officials 
said Saturday they were 

Renault and Volvo merge 
~~~~~ftllllqqol""*-llld~-~---f!liiiV(I·cf 
_,,.. O.auu ­
·­

$26.7 billion in 1992. 
Volvo, which has eliminated more than 3,000 jobs this year, lost $435 million last year. but earned $5.59 million during the first half of this year. 
Their combined workforce is expected to be named chair­will be about 200,000, and the man of the supervisory board. 
expecting to raise several bil­lion dollars a year from the so­called tax cap, but most people would not pay any taxes on their health benefits. 
Kevin Anderson, a spokesman for Clinton's health reform team, said Monday that employers will be able to se­cure permanent tax exemptions for health benefits their work­ers currently enjoy. 
Clinton was meeting again with advisers on health care after returning Monday from a two-day trip to Florida. He held high-level meetings last week to complete the package he will pitch to Congress later this month. 
Clinton has promised to guar­antee an extensive benefit package for all Americans, pri­marily by requiring all em­ployers to help pay for the in­surance. 
The so-called tax cap would come into play where a worker gets health benefits over and above the standard benefit package. 
Anderson said there will be 
~ GO REAllY IRISH!
:i!iIreland Program 
INFORMATION SESSIONS: 
September 7 September 8 
!i! 
7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Mongomery Theatre Game Room i!iS!LaFortune Student Center, Haggar CollegeCenter 
Notre Dame University Saint Mary's College 
iI I I 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
TANNING ACRYLICS & MANICURES 
Student Rates Georgetown Center 
271-7121 
plan does not envision any im­mediate job cuts. 
But the leftist General Confederation of Labor, the largest union at Renault, said it would fight the merger because it might lead to foreign control over the company and jeopar­dize workers' jobs. 
In a joint statement, the com­panies said their agreement will be valid for 25 years. Either party has the option to terminate the deal after the eighth year, subject to two years prior notice. 
Renault Chairman Louis Schweitzer will be chairman of the new company. Volvo Chairman Pehr Gyllenhammar 
special provisions to cushion union workers and others from the tax cap. 
Workers' current health ben­efits "will never. ever become taxable income to the em­ployee," said Anderson. 
For example, a worker with full dental coverage would not be taxed on that benefit, even though the Clinton plan in its early years would cover dental services only for children. 
Clinton is aiming to provide dental coverage for adults in 2000 and beyond. 
The AFL-CIO in the past has adamantly opposed any tax on health benefits. 
To assuage big labor, the White House said its proposal will exempt from taxation health benefits won under col­lective bargaining agreements for eight to 10 years after the new system starts in 1996. 
That is a recognition than many unions sacrificed wages for health benefits throughout the 1980s, Anderson said. 
The new corporate headquar­ters will be at Renault's head­quarters in southwest Paris. 
Volvo's maritime and indus­trial motors business, aero­space activities, and other industrial interests aren't in­cluded in the merger plan. 
The companies have com­plementary products and mar­kets. 
Volvo's sedans and station wagons, known for their boxy style and safety, are aimed at a narrow, generally affluent mar­ket and are popular in northern Europe, Britain and North America. 
Renault makes a broader, less expensive range range of automobiles with mass market appeal and is stronger than Volvo in southern Europe. 
-



_________ .____.._______________ 
.,___._.., 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Maoaging Editor  BwineSJ Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough  Advenioing Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Spona Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters  OTS Director .............••................. Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary' 1 Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objcctivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edimr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces.<arily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  . 631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EdirorNiewpoim  631-4541  Day Editor/Producrion  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Spons  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Phmo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  

ED MANIER ALEFT JAB 
Majority rules not appropriate at a University 
Has Notre Dame begun to Jose its Catholic/Christian char­acter? Did it offer my children (five Domers and two wun­derkind) less contact with Catholic tradition than it offered me? When my oldest grandchild arrives in 2003 how will he know he's not at Duke? 
There are few recognized measures of educational pro­ductivity. How do we calibrate religious character? In the "good old days" the Prefect of Religion counted heads at the confessional and hosts distrib­uted at communion, expecting those numbers to spike sharply upward before crucial football games. One might argue his utilitarian calculus, measuring faith as if he were a security guard, left us nowhere to go but up. In fact, such central institu­tions as Campus Ministry, Residence Hall Life, and the Center for Social Concerns have experienced immense improve­ment during the last four decades. 
The only prominent right wing critic of these institutions to have been here as a lay col­lege student under the old regime (chemical engineering professor Jim Carberry) has never glorified their forties and fifties equivalents. To have done so then would have com­pletely isolated him in the Caf (now Oak Room) and the bar at the Hofman (replaced by the University Club). The nascent liturgical movement was not echoed in mainstream campus practice. Nor did draft text­books in sacramental theology, even as taught by their author (Fr. O'Connor). inspire needed reform. fostered here only by a campus hybrid of the Christian Family and Catholic Worker 
DOONESBURY 
I JUSTOON'T UN1J£1?5TAN[) IAJHY 7HIS HAPP&NW TO M& '50 LATE. WHY /?If?ANI?Y VISIT MfHOIAI~ 
\ 


ANDY DIDN'T VISIT YOU, 
8/JTIDON7 
8lJT YOIJR& NOT
MARl<. ANI7Y IXJtSN'T 
Fe&L-AT 
ON/..YGAY. IT'S

&X/ST. YOU VISITW YaJR­
AJ./..n:A{)Y 
JUST ON&-MORt

s&lF. MAYE3E-ON 5GW1f 
707HINKOF 
THING AE30UT

/..fV13L-, Ya.J F/NAUY PUT 
MYS&lfAS 
YOU. JU5TAPI? 
R&Al7Y 7D FAG& '---. 
IT7V7H8Uc:if.
GAY.1 
Ya.JR7RU8 
NATVR&. 
away like topsoil in the Mississippi. 
It will not be easy to replace these seven. However, no fac­ulty impede the administration or presidentially anointed chaired professors in the attempt. If there are Christian scholars who happen to be philosophers of equal emi­nence, they will not fail to be invited, nor will they fail to accept, because non-Catholic faculty have 51 percent of the national repute and influence, can construct and pass any lit­mus test the religious right could imagine. Such resources were not available to inquiring minds in 1949-53. It has never been possible to get a good edu­cation at Notre Dame without devoting major effort to the choice of instructors. Opportunity to exercise such choice for Christian philosophy at Notre Dame flourishes as it never has. It is not washing 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
WUCflr18 IN MANY HOM8S, 
I'M SUR&. 
\ 

votes at Notre Dame. Far more likely that, if they exist, they will decline because of Notre Dame's cultural and geographic isolation. 
It is strange to find 'majority' used as it is in the most recent papal apostolic constitution urging Catholic institutions of higher education to pursue their role as spiritual leaven and concurrently to insure that non-Catholics not become a majority of their facu.lties, Nevertheless, our Colloquy for the Year 2000 concurs. 
The Clinton budget passed each house of congress by a single vote. In that context, 'majority' has a clear sense. Which specific issues concern­ing the religious character of Notre Dame are equally vulner­able? Notre Dame is no more governed by majority rule than is the Roman Catholic Church. 
Major league baseball owners argue "business" when con­fronted with arguments about the "good of the game," and the "good of the game" when con­fronted with arguments con­cerning the political-economic anomalies associated with their sport. Let those who "fear" the power of the majority in Catholic institutions prove themselves more consistent than baseball owners by telling us what new powers will be accorded Notre Dame faculty as a single electorate. Conversely, if the majority is impotent as a majority, and it clearly is, how can its religious affiliation mat­ter? 
Ed Manier is an associate professor of philosophy, and is spending the year at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass. 
His column appears every other Tuesd,ay. 
movements. This hybrid thrived because it understood itself to be a marginal commu­nity, a minority of campus "leaders" committed to ecclesi­astical and social activism. 
What of the academic aspects of a "Catholic institution of higher education?" The pre­sent roster of endowed profes­sors of philosophy, the "magnif­icent seven," six Roman Catholics and an evangelical Christian, all scholars of inter­
''priests are no more necessary to religion than politicians to patrio­
. , 

nsm. John Haynes Holmes 
The Observer • Paid Advertisement page 1 

Center for Social Concerns 
University ofNotre Dame 
directory more than 30 Center-related student groups as well as some 30 community agencies( •) seeking volunteers. Numbers in[arentheses refer 
listings on pages 2 an 3. 
ADULT LITERACY 
•Center 
for the Homeless (I I) Center for Basic Learning Skills (12) Dismas House (I7) 

•South 
Bend Community Schools' Adult Education (56) 

•St. 
Margaret's House (50) 

•YWCA 
Women's Shelter (66) 


ADULT-OLDER 
•Cardinal 
Nursing Center (8) •Healthwin Hospital (24) •Milton Home (34) 

•Neighborhood 
Housing Services (37) 


•Portage Manor (44) 
REAL Services (45) 
SAVE (Student Advocates Volunteers for 
the Elderly) (53) 

CHILDREN -YOUNG 
(Also see Tutoring) 

Big Brothers/Sisters (6) 
•Broadw.~y 
Christian Parish (7) 

CllA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) (13) 

•Center 
for the Homeless (I I) Council for· Fun and Learn (I 6) 

•EI 
Buen Vecino (18) 

•EI 
Campi to (I9) Headstart (23) HUGS (28) 


•Madison Center (33) 
•St. 
Hedwig's Outreach Center (49) 

•YWCA 
Women's Shelter (66) 


CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Amnesty International (3) 
Dismas House (I7) 
•
Legal Services (31) 

•Parkview 
Juvenile Center (42) 

•VORP 
(Victim Offender Reconciliation Program) (61) 


CULTURAL ISSUES 
African American Srudent Alliance (I) 
CASH (Commitree to Assist Hispanics) 
(10) 

Hispanic American Organization (25) 
La Casa de Amistad (30) 
Model UN (35) 
NAACP(36) 
Northern Ireland Awareness (40) 
ODN (Overseas Development Nerwork 
(41) 

World Peace Action (65) 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
Best Buddies (5) •Corvilla (I 5) logan Volunteers (32) 
•Madison Center (33) NISDC (Northern Indiana State Development Center) (39) 
•Portage Manor (44) SuperSibs (59) 
ENVIRONMENT 
Foodshare (20) 
Recyclin' Irish (46) 
SEA (Students for Environmental 
Action) (54) 

HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS 
•
Broadway Christian Parish (7) 

•Center 
for the Homeless (I I) Habitat for Humanity (22) 

•Hope 
Rescue Mission (27) •Salvation Army (52) 

•St. 
Margaret's House (50) 

•St. 
Vincent de Paul (51) 

•YWCA 
Women's Shelter (66) 


INSIDE 
FoodShare (21) ODN (Overseas Development Nerwork) (41) World Hunger Coalition (64) 
MEDICAL 
•AIDS Ministries/Assist (2) 

•Center 
for the Homeless (I I) First Aid Services (20) HUGS (28) 


•South 
Bend Medical Foundation (57) 


MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
African American Student Alliance (I) Arnold Air Society (4) CASH (Comminee to Assist Hispanics) 
(10) CllA (Community for the International 
Lay Apostolare) (13) Hispanic American Organization (25) Knights ofColumbus (29) ODN (Overseas Development Nerwork) 
(41) Pax Christi (43) Women United for Justice and Peace 
(63) World Hunger Coalition (64) World Peace Action (65) 

PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International (3) CllA (Community for the International 
Lay Apostolate) (13) Model UN (35) Northern Ireland Awareness (40) ODN (Overseas Development Nerwork) 
(41) Pax Christi (43) Right to Life (47) Women United for Justice and Peace 
(63) World Hunger Coalition (64) World Peace Action (65) 
TUTORING 
(Also see Children -Young) 
Big Brothers/Sisters (6) 

•Center 
for the Homeless (II) CllA (Community for the International 

Lay Apostolate) (13) Community ofCaring ( 14) Council for Fun and Learn ( 16) 


•EI 
Buen Vecino (18) La Casa de Amistad (30) NSHP (Neighborhood Study Help 

Program) (38) 


•Parkview 
Juvenile Faculty (42) •Safe Station (48) 


•Slice 
of Life (55) •St. Hedwig's (49) STEP (Student Tutorial Education 


Program) (58) Volunteers for Youth (60) 

WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) (9) 
•
Home Management Services (26) Right to Life (47) 

•St. 
Margaret's House (50) 


•Women's 
Care Center (62) 


Women United for Justice and Peace (63) 

•YWCA 
Women's Shelter (66) 



ONETIME SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
•Christmas 
in April Dismas House (17) Habitat for Humanity (22) 


•Neighborhood 
Housing Services (37) •Salvation Army (52) 

•South 
Bend Medical Foundation (57) 

•St. 
Vincent de Paul (51) 



NOTE: Dorms, cla.rSfs, or sp.cial inumtgroups may wish to organiu specialproj.cts with groups or agmcits lisud htu. Forforthtr information, con­tact Kathy Roytr, Cmttr Coordinator ofSrrvice and Social ActionGroups. at 631-5293. 
CSC Service and Social Action Opportunities pp. 2 and 3 
Other CSC Programs and Activites 

WELCOME! 
The Center staff joins me in inviting you to spend a few minutes reviewing the opportunities outlined in these pages. 
Again and again we hear from alumni in law, business, medicine, engineering, counseling, etc., that many of their ser­vice, social action, and experiential learning involvements have been extremely valuable to them in their 
,,w~,,~",,,,,,,l careers. 
Please explore the challenges open to you. Stop in at the Center or give us a call! 
~11\.C~)CA..L 
Director 

RISK: THE ROAD TO CHANGE AND HOPE 
I used to see the world divided mainly into the haves and have-nots. Now I see it's also divided into the hopeful and the hopeless. But how do we gain hope, honest hope, in the face ofsuch powerful signs ofdecline? There's only one way. 
Risk. By risk I mean trying that which we believed we could not do. Risk is the only way to change ourselves. And only ifwe change ourselves will we believe that the world can change. 
Frances Moore Lappe Co-Director ofthe Institute for the Arts ofDemocracy 
Michele spent eight weeks of this summer overseeing a swimming pool at a public housing pro­tect in our nation's capital. She took a significant risk when she decided to spend her summer 
learning about a whole other world." She is well aware that the situation in which she has placed herself looks hopeless. "I run the pool. However, sweeping hundreds of thousands of shards of glass and knowing they'll be there the next day sometimes makes things look hopeless. But then I didn't expect to change things." 
What Michelle did do was to begin to change herself. She will return to Notre Dame a little dif­ferent than she was when she left. She will know more about despair and thus about hope. The risk that she took this summer was the beginning of this process. 
Education is always about risk, cliange and hope. The Center for Social Concerns is committed to helping Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students fmd new ways to learn about themselves and the world. The Center offers a great variety of service and social action opportunities for students while they are here in South Bend and, during breaks and after graduation, in other parts of the United States and around the world. 
The Center welcomes you to come in and explore with the staff and student leaders options that would suit your interests and challenge you to take risks that will enable you to become helpful citi­zens of a more just society. 
Kathy Royer Coordinator, Service and Social Action Groups 

SOUTH BEND COMMUNI1Y CELEBRATES CENTER'S 10-YEARJOURNEY 
What a wonderful way to show you care. So very glad you made the Northeast Neighborhood a part ofit. The day was wonderful. Caring and sharing-that's what life is all about! 
This written messa~e from a South Bend resident is typical of the feelings voiced by the many South Bend residents who accepted the Center's invita­tion to "Come Celebrate With Us" on March 27 at Stepan Center. The guests of the Center were those with whom the student volunteers work throughout the academic year -the homeless, the disabfed, residents of nursing homes, those who are tutored, etc. Student group leaders extended invitations and hosted the guests. United Limo provided transportation, and the Center arranged for the food and entertainment. The Center's anniversary year will include a faculty-relatedevent during the Fall Semester. 

The Observer • Paid Advertisement 
page 2 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
CSC groups and South Bend agenJ 
1AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Volunteers-to work in service projects in South Bend. The AASA has pledged to serve the African American community in South Bend as they are able and where the needs are the greatest. Student Group Leader: Terrance Porter-634-3413 
2 AIDS MINISTRIES COMMITTEE/AIDS ASSIST 
Volunteers-to give social support to individuals who are HIV+ by providing support and help. Student Group Leader: Elizabeth Caruso -634-3490 Agency Phone: 234-2870 
3 AMNESlY INTERNATIONAL 
Volunteers-for letter writing, petition signing, special campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues worldwide. Student Group Leaders: Gregg Behr -634-4288 
Huong Mai-634-1511 

4 ARNOLD AIR SOCIElY 
Volunteers-are members of a national collegiate organiza­tion of Air Force ROTC members dedicated to interaction with the community. Student Group Leaders: Sean Keene -634-1206 
T. G. Aranda-634-1692 

5 BEST BUDDIES 
Volunteers-develop their relationships with persons with mild to moderate mental retardation by going to movies, sport­ing events, concerts, museums, and by participating together in recreational activities. Student Group Leaders: Kathleen Gorman -634-2550 
Michael Shea-634-1102 

6 BIG BROTHERS/SISTERS 
Volunteers-to provide shared time and friendship between a student and a child. Student Group Leaders: Karen Gunther-634-1254 
Mike Robson-634-1751 Agency Phone: 232-9958 
7 BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH 
Volunteers -to help with the Sunday meal-cooking, serv­ing and cleaning up. Agency Phone: 289-0333 
8 CARDINAL NURSING CENTER 
Volunteers-needed to visit residents on a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 287-6501 
9 C.A.R.E. (CAMPUS ALIANCE FOR RAPE ELIMINATION) 
Volunteers-are students and faculty/administrators from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. C.A.R.E. members make dorm presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape support group on campus. Student Group Leaders: Stacy Jones -634-4909 
Michelle Cummings -634-4841 

1 0 CASH (COMMITTEE TO ASSIST HISPANICS) 
Volunteers-to reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend through a variety of service activities, educational programs, and cultural awareness projects. Student Group Leader: Carol Smoller -634-4144 
11 CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Volunteers-work in many areas in the Center-manage the front desk, help with the serving of meals, work with the children and families and tutors and friends, work with the facilities at the Center or help with administrative and organiza­tional tasks. Agency Phone: 282-8700 
12 CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS 
Volunteers-tutor adults from 9:30-11:30 Monday through Thursday mornings at the Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend. Agency Phone: 
13 CILA (COMMUNilY FOR THE INTERNATIONAL LAYAPOSTOLATE) 
Volunteers-are a group of friends united to answer what we believe to be our Christian calling to love God in service to those in need. We follow this calling by working in the South Bend community for and with all sorts of people, from the young to the elderly. As a community, the focus is also interna­tional. Student Group Leaders: Darren S. Cook-634-1026 
Jennifer Tilgman -634-1992 
14 COMMUNilY OF CARING 
Volunteers-Commit to spending one hour per week at Clay Middle School with one of their programs which serve students with special needs. Student Group Leader: Nwosa Nkemdilim ­

15 CORVILLA, INC. 
Volunteers-to develop one-to-one relationships with Corvilla residents. Corvilla is a home for persons who are men­tally retarded. Agency Phone: 289-9779 
16 COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARN 
Volunteers -work with learning disabled children every Saturday morning helping them to meet the specific goals and objectives of the program. Student Group Leaders: Amy Mark -634-4011 
Shannon McCarthy -634-4011 
17 DISMAS HOUSE 
Volunteers-needed to cook for the residents on week nights. Students are also needed to live at Dismas House. Agency Phone: 233-8522 
18 EL BUEN VECINO 
Volunteers -tutor people in English and help them study for their high school equivalency. They also help with child care and work with mothers to teach money management skills and health and nutrition information. Agency Phone: 287-7681 
19 EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER 
Volunteers-provide role models for young children from single parent families. Volunteers also assist regular day care instructors in planning and implementing their organized pro­gram. Agency Phone: 232-0220 
20 FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM 
Volunteers-provide coverage for inter-hall sports, con­certs, home football games, AnTostal, Keenan Review, campus runs, and any other ND/SMC activity that requests the team's service. Student Group Leader: Glenn Cassidy ­
21 FOODSHARE 
Volunteers-to deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. Student Group Leaders: Eric Escagne -634-2054 
Joe Gavigan ­

24 HEALTHWIN 
Volunteers-to make weekly visits to patients on a one-tc one basis. Agency Phone: 272-0100 
25 HISPANIC AMERICAN ORGANIZATION 
Volunteers-to help the NO community understand and ~ ebrate the Hispanic American culture. Volunteers serve the Hispanic Community in South Bend through work with neigh· borhood centers and a local parish. Student Group Leader: 
26 HOME MANAGEMENT SERVICES 
Volunteers-to help with individual counseling for wome in home management, finances, etc. They are also needed to help with child care. Agency Phone: 287-5961 
2 7 HOPE RESCUE MISSION 
Volunteers-to serve meals to the homeless and destitute assist with the maintenance of the facility, and visit residents I a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 288-4842 
28 HUGS (HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS) 
Volunteers-work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Group Leader: 
29 KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Volunteers-to assist with fund-raising for a variety of charities and to serve, e.g., at Logan Center. Student Group Leader: 
30 LA CASA DE AMISTAD 
Volunteers-to tutor young people at La Casa after schoj They are also welcome to help with recreational activities a~ immigration assistance. Agency Phone: 233-2120 
31 LEGAL SERVICES 
Volunteers-to serve as intake workers. The program • vides free legal representation to low-income persons. Agency Phone: 234-8121 I 
.9llJHIJ~nu·~loq ,32 LOGAN VOLUNTEERS 
Volunteers-to assist with organizing games and doing~ and crafts projects with and for Logan Center clients. Student Group Leaders: Luke Williams -634-1523 
Juliet Dickmann -634-4842 

3 3 MADISON CENTER 
Volunteers-for the Adolescent Day treatment program; which assists emotionally handicapped adolescents to adapt\ normal school and community life. Other programs include Offense Services, Children's Day Treatment and Children anl Adolescent Tutoring. Agency Phone: 234-0061 
34 MILTON HOME 
Volunteers-to visit residents on a one-to-one basis. Agency Phone: 233-0165 
35 MODEL UNITED NATIONS 
Volunteers-to study and model international diplomatiC exchanges and take part in trips to Washington D.C., Chicag~ and New York for competitions with other school chapters of1 the Model UN. 1 Student Group Leaders: Molly Malloy-634-4712 
John Sonnick -634-3501 

36 NAACP (NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLES) 
Volunteers-sponsor round table discussions and occa· sional speakers to address various topics (e.g., Racism, Ubera. Education, etc.) and plan a variety of social activities. Student Group Leader: 
3 7 NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING SERVICES 
Volunteers-to repair homes, to sponsor a Neighborhood Day which includes a cookouVpicnic setting, and to assist peop in finding a home. Agency Phone: 284-9001 
Go to the People. Uve among them. Love them. Learn from them. Serve them. Plan with them. Start with what they know. Build on what they have. 
And when the best leaders leave · The people will say, "We have done it ourselves." 
-Lao Tsu 

38 NSHP (NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM) 
22 HABITAT FOR HUMANilY Volunteers-to tutor at a variety of centers twice a week ~ 
Volunteers-to work on construction crews, to donate a one hour period each time. 
materials, and provide meals for the work groups. 
Student Group Leaders: Tina Patane -282-2879 Student Group Leaders: Meaghan Butler-271-1663 Andrew Dinan -634-1881 
John Jennings -634-3463 39 NISDC (NORTHERN INDIANA STATE 23 HEADSTART DEVELOPMENTAL CENTER) 
Volunteers-needed to work two hours per week with chil­Volunteers-to work on a one-to-one basis with children dren on a one-to-one basis. 
from three to 19 on a variety of activities. 
Student Group Leader: 
Student Group Leaders: A. Maureen Nullaney-Bill Gaumond -634-4085 
The Observer • Paid Advertisement CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS page 3 
-
ies offer challenging opportunities 
40 NORTHERN IRELAND AWARENESS GROUP 
Volunteers-to assist with activities which encourage a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Northern Ireland and address current injustices. Student Group Leaders: Erin King -634-2504 
Bob Kehoe-273-1442 

41 ODN (OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK) 
Volunteers-to raise the awareness of the Notre Dame community about issues that people around the world face on a daily basis, such as hunger and limited technology and health care. Student Group Leader: Eric Bradley -634-3036 
42 PARKVIEW JUVENILE CENTER 
Volunteers-to tutor, for recreational activities, mentor­ing and assistance with social skills. Agency Phone: 277-3070 
43 PAX CHRISTI 
Volunteers-to meet weekly to build community, to discuss issues of peace and justice, to engage in regular service work in the South Bend community. ND is a chapter of the international. Catholic peace movement, Pax Christi. Student Group Leaders: Eric Zmarzly ­
Lori Hanchin -634-2805 

44 PORTAGE MANOR 
Volunteers-to pay regular visits to individual residents who have no family. Agency Phone: 272-9100 
4 5 REAL SERVICES 
Volunteers-to assist older adults to maintain their homes, rake leaves. clean up yards and shovel snow in winter. Agency Phone: 233-8205 
46 RECYCLIN' IRISH 
Volunteers-to organize throughout the dorms and facili­ties on campus the various efforts to recycle which include newspaper, glass, aluminum and now paper, plastic, and polyurethane. Student Group Leaders: P. Ethan Shoaps-273-3920 
Christoph D. Bane -273-3920 

4 7 RIGHT TO LIFE 
Volunteers-to focus on the national abortion issue. Activities include weekly picketing at the Women's Pavilion, dorm forums, trips to Washington, D.C., and a Right-to-Ufe week during the year. Student Group Leaders: Katrina Hilton -634-2955 
Christopher Derda-232-7315 

Community Service Commissioners 
1993-94  
Alumni Steve Senna Mike Shea Badin Amy Fleisher Christine Keyes Breen-Phillips Caimien Quigley Carroll  301 227 407 347 137  
Cavanaugh Dillon Eric Belin Farley Michelle Cox Diane Regitz Fisher Michael Barksay Eric Bradley  246 454 341 140 324  
e r  Flanner Grace Eric Wozniak Howard Emily Portune Courtney Nemeth Keenan David Leonard Brian McDonough Knott Erin O'Connor Bette Huymh Brandi Wilson Lewis Amanda DePaolo Lisa Giannuzzi Lyons Andrea Topash Morrissey Jonathon Walsh Pangborn Jeanne Curran Rita Plucienkowski Pasquerilla East Kellie Abbott Mara Fuller Katie Russell Pasquerilla West Kim Griffin St. Edward's Jason Woodward Siegfried Mary Kate Morton Sarin Hall Dirk Bedford Jose Contreras Stanford Jimmy Carolan Walsh Tisha O'Brien Zahm Matt Jennings Mike Wigton  1016 424 426 240 405 342 434 111 307 411 305 202 201 614 833 833 434 123 230 215 349 300 232 217 217  

1164 1102 2731 3709 1675 
1735 4121 4253 1939 3036 
4020 2468 2470 3343 3363 4981 4700 4758 4633 3861 2782 3558 2389 2388 3773 1704 1704 1511 1790 4823 2306 2173 
1822 1306 1306 


University of Chicago Sociologist William Julius Wilson met at the Center with members ?f the "New Ur~an Poverty Faculty Group" to discuss how the University might help raise the consciousness of our commumty about the plight of_those trapped in the "new urban poverty." (Left to right: Don Sporleder (Architecture), John Roos (Government), Wilson, Kathleen Maas Weigert (CSC Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator). 
48 SAFE STATION 
Volunteers-to meet with the young people who are in resi­dence at this temporary shelter care facility to help them with school work, be a listening ear and just "hang out." Agency Phone: 284-9396 
49 ST. HEDWIG'S 
Volunteers-to help with tutoring and to provide stable role models for children who come from families that are in crisis. It involves one or two afternoons per week from 4:30-6:00 p.m. Agency Phone: 287-0845 
50 ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE 
Volunteers-to help with children, answer the phone and serve as hostess for guests. Volunteers also help with literacy work, cooking, aerobics, spiritual groups and other activities that would be useful to the guests. The House is open to adult women and girls and boys under twelve. Agency Phone: 234-7795 
51 ST. VINCENT DE PAUL 
Volunteers-to work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organization. Agency Phone: 234-6211 
52 SALVATION ARMY 
Volunteers-provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can "adopt" a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. Agency Phone: 233-9471 
53 SAVE (STUDENT ADVOCATES VOLUNTEERS FOR THE ELDERLY) 
Volunteers-to visit one-on-one with an elderly person. Volunteers make weekly visits to nearby nursing homes. Student Group Leader: 
54 SEA (STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION) 
Volunteers-to promote awareness of environmental issues amongst the student body and the South Bend community. We cooperate with the Notre Dame Environmental Task Force and environmental groups in South Bend to create environmentally sound policies on campus and ofT. Student Group Leader: 
55 SLICE OF LIFE 
Volunteers-to meet with 7 to 13 year old girls on Friday, 
3:30 to 5:00 p.m. to discuss issues of concern to them. Agency Phone: 232-4070 
56 SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS ADULT EDUCATION 
Volunteers-to work individually with adult students who are studying for their GED or simply learning literacy skills. Agency Phone: 282-2130 
57 SOUTH BEND MEDICAL FOUNDATION, INC. VOLUNTEER BLOOD DONOR PROGRAM 
Volunteers-to organize blood drives on campus. Agency Phone: 234-4176 
58 STEP (STUDENT TUTORIAL EDUCATION PROGRAM) 
Volunteers-to visit the South Bend Juvenile Facility one night a week and to spend an hour with ~ resident completing work or talking about constructive topics. The residents are also given a Christmas Party and a Picnic in the Spring which is provided by STEP and the Facility. Student Group Leader: Greg Butler -634-1737 
59 SUPERSIBS 

Volunteers-work with children who have handicapped sib­lings. Student Group Leader: 
60 VOLUNTEERS FOR YOUTH 

Volunteers-are varsity athletes who are matched with South Bend junior high school students to provide an encouraging role model. \ Student Group Leader: Stephanie Porter -634-4811 
61 VORP (\1CTIM OFFENDER RECONCILIATION PROGRAM) 
Volunteers-are trained as mediators. They arrange meet­ings between victims and offenders, mediate those meetings and report on their outcome to the VORP Director. Agency Phone: 282-2397 
62 WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 

Volunteers-needed to assist in welcoming pregnant women and couples and beginning the process of assisting them to gather the resources that they need to complete the pregnancy. Agency Phone: 234-0363 
63 WOMEN UNITED FOR JUSTICE AND PEACE 
Volunteers-join together to educate themselves and others in order to grow in the power of their common sisterhood, to lead themselves to an understanding of their responsibilities in the world today, and to the action they must take accordmgly. The group seeks to spiritually nourish their peacemaking through fellowship in the manifestly Christian community of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. Student Group Leader: Angela Walker -634-4659 
Jennifer Picnay ­
64 WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
Volunteers-raise awareness and support for the poor and hungry in the South Bend community and around the world. Volunteers aim to grow spiritually and mentally in their efforts to alleviate hunger, and to have fun doing it. Student Group Leaders: Craig Anzilotti -232-5287 
Lara Sweedo -634-4829 
6 5 WORLD PEACE ACTION 

Volunteers-attend meetings and discussions about world peace and participate in campus wide group demonstrations. They also sponsor lectures and forums about issues related to peace. Student Group Leader: William Albertini-634-4327 
Elizabeth Trigg -634-2666 
66 Y.W.C.A. WOMEN'S SHELTER 
Volunteers-to listen, provide transportation, tutor, work with children and to perform other important services. Agency Phone: 232-9558 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------­
-

page 4 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS The Observer • Paid Advertisement 
the mountain people. (1 credit) 
An Insider's Look: WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Approximately 24 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to explorecrucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. In Washington, they meet With the decision­makers, members of congress, ambassadors and church leaders. On-campus preparation, on-site experience and follow-up reflection combine to create a unique learning opportunity. (1 credit) 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
This seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immigrant tradition. The corresponding problems of urban life and racism also are examined dur­ing the semester break experience. (1 credit) 
WOMEN, CHURCH AND SOCIETY SEMINAR 
This seminar is designed to acquaint students (durin~ a week of involvement in Chicago)with the challenges of women in society and the church. This seminar studies gender issues and commitment to community and service. (1 credit) 
LEADERSHIP ISSUES SEMINAR 
The Leadership Issues Seminar is designed for students working in a leadership capacity promoting community service or social action. (1 credit) 
OTHER SEMINARS include Migrant Experiences Seminar and East Africa and Holy Cross Mission Seminar. (1 credit each) 
ADDITIONAL EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES 
. . . include, as resources allow, service-learning trips to the L'Arche Daybreak Community in Toronto. to the rural south, and to U.S. -Mexico border region. Student leadership plays a key role in developing unique learning opportunities. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
The Summer Service Projects are eight week sessions of community service facilitated by Alumni Clubs all over the country. 142 Notre Dame students took part this summer. A tuition scholarship is awarded to each participating student. The scholarships are provided by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Endowment. Every project is different: students work in shelters for the homeless, soup kitchens, homes for abused children, spouse abuse shelters, Headstart programs, camps for inner city children, etc. (3 credits) Information Meetings for the 1994 SSP will be held at the Center on December 1 (5:30p.m.) and January 18 (5:00p.m.). 
THEOLOGY COURSES 
Don McNeill, C.S.C., Ph.D. and Staff -Reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences. Courses include: Church and Social Action, Theology and Community Service, Reflections on Service, Theology and Social Ministry. (3 credits per course) 
OTHER JUSTICE AND PEACE COURSES 
Study and analysis ofcontemporary issues ofjustice and peace. 
Jay Brandenberger, Ph.D.-Children and Poverty. 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. -Introduction to Peace Studies, Peace Movements in America, Homelessness in America, Power and Change in America. (3 credits per course) 
PEACE AND JUSTICE PROGRAMMING 
The Center sponsors or co-sponsors a variety of creative peace and justice programs throughout the year, including films, panels, invited speakers and performing arts. Each opportuni­ty focuses on an important issue of social concern (e.g., racism, poverty, the environment). 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of ser­vice into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year of two of volunteer service, e.g.. Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Mary Ann Roemer (631-5293). 
SENIOR RAP-UP GROUPS 
Approximately 150 N·otre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors participate in senior rap-up groups. They gather approximately once a month in groups of eight or ten in a faculty or staff home where they plan and prepare a meal followed by informal discussion that focuses on the plans and concerns that students have as they approach graduation. Contact Mary Ann Roemer (631-5293). 
ACADEMIC CREDIT AVAILABLE 
The experiential and service learning seminars as well as the other courses listed on this page have been primarily developed and coordinated by Center staff. They are offered through these aca­demic departments: Theology, American Studies, Gender Studies, Psychology and Sociology. Contact the Center for more details. 
1st Row: Mary Ann Roemer, Coordinator: Senior/Alumni Programs; Kathy Royer, Coordinator: Service/Social Action Groups; 2nd Row: Ardis King, Secretary; Patty Flynn, Secretary-Receptionist; Sandy Barton, Administrative Assistant; Sue Cunningham, Coordinator: Urban Plunge and Summer Service Projects; Carol Porter, Secretary; 3rd Row: Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director; Maureen Skurski, Projects Coordinator; Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator; Jay Brandenberger, Coordinator: Experiential Seminars and Justice Education; Eugene McClory, Associate Director. The work of the Center is also facilitated by student managers and student assis­tants, by resource persons, and volunteers. Thomas McDermott, 
C. S.C., is the liaison of Campus Ministry with CSC. 
CSC AND CAMPUS MINISTRY COLLABORATE 
The desire for a deeper integra­tion of faith and action in the lives of Notre Dame students has led CampusMinistry and the Center for Social Concerns to work towards a more cre­ative and public collaboration. In mov­ing towards this goal, Rev. H. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., (above) serves as Campus Ministry's liaison with the Center, and Eugene McClory as the Center's liaison with Campus Ministry. 


THE FACULTY AND CENTER ACTIVITIES 
Faculty participate in Center programs in two basic ways. First, they serve as resource personnel for many of our programs . Some are speakers or resource persons for our experiential learn­ing seminars. Others serve as Urban Plunge facilitators, opening their homes for an evening discussion to provide students an opportunity to reflect on and begin the analysis of their Urban Plunge experience. Some host the Senior Rap Up groups, groupsthat meet in the faculty's home four or five times in the spring semester to converse about their undergraduate years at Notre Dame and to examine how social concerns are and will be inte­grated into their lives upon ~aduation. Others serve as advisors to the many service/social actiOn groups, etc. 
Second, they %articipate in programs held specifically for them. There is t e annual faculty workshop, to be held in January, 1994, with the emphasis on "Experiential Education on Social Concerns." There are reading groups, Urban Plunges for faculty, and other opportunities, sucb as the new "Faith and Professional Life" series co-sponsored with Campus Ministry. 
Faculty interested in getting involved in any of these opportu­nities may contact Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert (631-5319/5322). 
Center facilities include 
0 0 0 

. a coffee house . a large multi-purpose room 
. 
. semtnar rooms . a resource room . a library and . a reflection room 

Contact the Center receptionist (631-5293) to reserve rooms for lec­tures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gatherings. 
FROM THE EDITOR'S DESK Current information on Center programs and activities is available throughout the·year in The Observer. through the CSC Newsletter, mailed quarterly to Center alumni., and other Center publications. This paid advertisement is made possible through the cooperation of: 
•The 
Observer staff who assisted in its J?roduction. 

•Notre 
Dame Student Government. whtch partially defrayed the cost. 

•The 
student groups that provided a writeup on their organiza­tions. 

•Center 
Staff who shared material on their programs. 

•And 
you, the reader, whose interest and followup make all o this worthwhile. 



Thank you. 
Eugene J. McClory 
-

ACC~NT 
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 page 11 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women strttggle with bulimia 
By KENYA JOHNSON Accent Editor 
Tears swelled in Susie's (all names have been changed at the request of the subjects) eyes as she stuffed the third twinkie down her throat. With the last swallow and the grab of her toothbrush, she peered out of the door and looked down the hallways. No one was in sight. Susie was in the clear. She ran to the bathroom and shoved the toothbrush into her mouth until the last remains of the twinkies were in the toilet. 
Graphic and repulsive, the scene described above is com­mon to one too many women on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. Although a claimed-to-be "fad" of the 80s, bulimia nervosa is still a prob­lem with the women of America. 
Susie is one of them. 
Susie is a Notre Dame junior and has been dealing with bu­limia since high school. She said her obsession began when her father teased her about "eating like a pig." 
"At first it was just all fun and games," she explained. "But then, as I got older I realized that I did eat a lot, and that other people probably thought the same thing about me as my dad." 
But in reality, it was only Susie who felt that way. She was eating like any healthy growing teenager would and she weighed 127 pounds-aver­age statistics for a sixteen year old female standing 5' 4". 
But average was too much 
for Susie. 
It all started with a simple diet. Fruits, vegetables, chick­en and water. Soon, the chicken was too much-and so were the fruits. 
Susie was also exercising at 
least three times a week; which 
became six times a week; which 
quickly became two times a 
day. 
And eventually, that was not 
enough for Susie. 
For Susie, the only solution 
she understood was no con­
sumption at all. 
"I began hinging and purging 
the little food I did eat," Susie 
said. "Then I started saying 
'Hey, at this rate, I could eat a 
whole lot more and still not 
have it affect my body." When I 
realized that, I ran into a lot of 
trouble." 
Susie began to secretly "scarf 
food down," she said. 
"I was eating as much as three hamburgers, a box of chicken nuggets and two McDonald's apple pies in one sitting. Sometimes, I would drive from one drive through to another. Good thing for my wallet that every place started having those value meal deals," she said with remorseful laugh­ter. 
Susie's hinging and purging lasted all through high school and her first year at Notre Dame. 
"I never went to dinner with my roommates or friends, but they thought I was just home­sick," Susie explained. "I hated eating in front of people because I thought they would figure out my problem." 
Susie remembers eating all of eighteen meals in the dining hall her freshman year. 
"I spent entirely too much money at the Huddle:" she said. "I would pretend like I had a list, like orders for all my friends, and then I'd take the order into the restroom and just eat in a stall. 
"A lot of times I would order 
pizza to another dorm and meet 
the pizza driver before he could 
call to the room." 

Susie's war on food finally came to an end when a close male companion confronted her about his suspensions. 
"He could sense that I was 
having a whole lot of problems, 
and he knew my eating habits 
were strange," she said. 

Together, Susie and her 
friend conquered her bulimia. 
It took nearly two years to com­
pletely rid herself of the prob­
lem. 

Some haven't been as fortu­
nate as Susie, if her situation 
could be called fortunate. 

Melanie, a Saint Mary's 
senior, is still hinging and purg­
ing at least four times a week. 
She has been in counseling for 
three years, rushed to the 
emergency room four times and 
on the brink of death once. 
Melanie, at 5'6" weighs 105 
pounds-and still believes she 
needs to lose weight. 

"My goal is to get below the 
100 mark on the scale," she 
said. 

Melanie was always small as 
a child. For years she was told 
she should model, due to her 
height. 

"Being the naive child I was, 
at age fifteen I went to a model­
ing agency and was told to lose 
about ten pounds," she said. At 
SOME COMMON BEHAVIORS ASSOCIATED WITH BULIMIA 
• 
Binge eating in large amounts, several days a week. 

• 
Binge eating on highly processed carbohydrate foods, often foods containing refined sugar, flour or wheat and caffeine. 

• 
Experience difficulty withdrawing from these substances due to what seems like uncontrollable physical cravings for more. 

• 
Unable to control the amount of food eaten. 

• 
Spend a lot of time thinking about food, demonstrated by frequent recurring thoughts about buying, preparing, and eating food. 

• 
Fear of becoming fat. 

• 
Preoccupied with trying to lose weight by exercising, going on a strict diet, taking laxatives, taking diet pills, or vomiting. 

• 
Feel frustrated and discouraged because once you lose ~~eight you find yourself back in the binge/purge cycle. 

• 
Look in the mirror and are constantly criticizing your body. 

• 
Become involved in relationships with emotionally or physically abusive mates. 


the time she weighed 131 pounds. 
Melanie thought maybe fif­teen would be better. Then she told herself twenty was proba­bly best. Before she knew what was happening, Melanie was purging nearly every meal and snack. 
She was down to 96 pounds and was "all skin and bones," she said. 
"It was really unhealthy. One night in high school, I had forced so much food out of my system that I passed out. I passed out and my parents had to take me to the hospital." 
Melanie has been rushed to the emergency room twice since in college. 
"I just get really weak some­times, and faint. They say not enough oxygen isn't getting to my brain due to the lack of 
er,
ery' 

She started bingeing and 
food." Melanie also has irreversible SYMPTOMS OF ANOREXIA NERVOSA damage in her esophagus."I know I'm literally killing • Refusal t~ _maintain body YJeight myself but I can't seem to stop over a m1m~al normal ~eight for 
' . · age and he1ght (approximately
Some people don t understand 15% below normal) 
diseases like alcoholism and bulimia," she explained. "They • Intense fear of gaining weight or think it's should be so easy to becoming fat. just quit, but it's not. It's a psy­chological problem and it needs • Claiming to "feel fat" even when the proper treatment." obviously underweight. 
Melanie currently sees a •If female, primary or secondary counselor twice a week. She amenorrhea. says it helps, but she's definite­ly still has a long way to go. • Fear of loss of control of eating. 
"I don't know if I'll ever be 
• Plays with food or cuts into small cured," she said. 
bites or has rituals with food. 
Bulimia is an increasing problem among college women today. If you or • Difficulty eating in public. someone you know has symptoms of . . . . . bulimia, both counseling centers of • Depression and 1rntab1hty. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are available to assist with the problem. 
Get help, please. 
<>hnn;"""' to cover 
J)er pPJt~ng. ··· .. ... ... 
"I always hinged in private; a,nd ifI hinged on other peo" ple's f9ocl. IW()l:lld repla~e It~ they wouldn't find out," said Debbie. 
"I ·tri~d to avoid any socHi.l activity where there was food, but if I had to e~t out, I would ~eave tpe table as soon, as pos." sible to go purge. If anyone ··knew What I was doing, they p.ever s11id anythp1g to me." •. 
·.· Often after ·a: purge, Debbi!'l 
would hide in the bathroom 
with c9ld compresses on her 
¢yes to 1lide ·tM puffiness from 
purging becaus101 she was 
always fearful of being found 
·out. · .. "Aft~f abinge/purge episode I always felt s() guilty," Debbie 
• Obsession with exercise. 
w and •• working in 11 lli~!lfljospi~l thatPl)bbie
··• izeq ~he need:~d: help: She 
she $tarted missing 
was late to work and had 
es in ~;oneen;tratlon. A· 
from her best friend in l'Ull~K"I was the clincher. 
"She hugged me lt.ml s was skin and bones;.. Debbie, who described as being extremely un weight. "She was well aware what 1 had been doing school." 
Debbie entered treatment The Willough in 1989. She :re ceived comprehensive treat ment for her disease. · 
Now 28 and married, who is an eating disorder apist, is eating three me day and asnack, has a 
n ..:RIIInVI 

support system, is following balanced exercise routine perb,aps ,(llOSt imp()rtant, Jeartt(;ld that "food is not.· enemy." 
-
page 12 The Observer • NFL FOOTBALL Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
-Anderson to start, Carrier accepts blame for Bears' loss 
By JOE MOOSHIL 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 

Finally, Neal Anderson will start at tailback for the Chicago Bears on Sunday against the Minnesota Vikings. 
Coach Dave Wannstedt made it official Monday when he said Anderson, who was sidelined because of a hamstring injury throughout the preseason, would start. 
There had been speculation that Anderson would play in the last two preseason games, but it never materialized. 
Wannstedt said Anderson, who lined up at wide receiver on a couple of plays in Sunday's 26-20 loss to the New York Giants, could have been used at tailback. But Wannstedt added: "I felt Darren Lewis deserved the opportunity to start and play. I am not down on Darren, but I feel we need production at that position." 
Lewis carried seven times and gained only 13 yards while fullback Craig Heyward carried 13 times for 51 yards. 
Anderson said he was ready the previous week. 
"I did everything at that posi­tion in every practice last week. I just didn't play that much in the game. I'm looking forward to getting into the game to do some things. I feel good." 
If Anderson can regain his form of two years ago, he and Heyward could give the Bears a sound ground attack. 
But Anderson, who had three straight 1,000-yard rushing seasons, slipped to 747 yards in 1991 and to 582 yards last sea­son. It got to the point where former coach Mike Ditka did not start him in the last four games. 
Anderson has had 13 1DO­yard games but none since the 1990 playoff game against New Orleans. 
Despite the confusion in the defensive secondary in the loss to the Giants, Wannstedt said he saw many positives. He named quarterback Jim Harbaugh, receivers Tom Waddle, Terry Obee, Wendell Davis and Curtis Conway. 
He also praised Heyward and Jay Leeuwenburg, a center­guard who had to play left tack­le for the first time in his career because of Troy Auzenne's knee injury. 
"I was happy with Jay. He competed well and played with a lot of confidence," said Wannstedt. "I was happy with the kicking game." 
What bothered him most was the breakdown in communica­tions in the defensive secondary that led to New York's winning touchdown with 1:07 to play. 
"We have to get the calls in quicker," said Wannstedt, who last year made the calls himself as defensive coordinator for the Dallas Cowboys. 
"A year ago I'd see it (the sit­uation). make the call, and we'd get it done," said Wannstedt 
Under the present system, Bob Slowik makes the call from upstairs to the sidelines and the signals are sent to safety Mark Carrier who makes the calls on the field. 
There was mass confusion on the pass interference play that set up the 1-yard winning touchdown pass from Phil Simms to Jarrod Bunch. 
Cornerback Anthony Blaylock was called for pass interference against Mark Jackson. Blaylock was playing a zone defense and was expecting help which he didn't get since the other backs were playing man-to-man. 
"What happened yesterday happened, but it won't happen again," said Carrier. "We talked about it and talked about 


Photo courtesy of USC Sports Information Mark Carrier took the blame for some confusion that may have cost the Bears the game Sunday against the Giants. 
making things easier. 
"I feel worse than anyone when I make a mental mis­take," said Carner. "A lot of people count on me. The system is new, but I'm not a rookie." 
The Observer accep!S classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 P..m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All clasSitieds mun be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
store  PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE.  tix. My kids can't lake the cold. Bill  lor USC. Call Tommaso X1480 $  
NOTICES  WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE  272-6306.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo  I NEED 2 PITI GA'S. PLEASE  
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO  WEEKENDS • RIVERFRONT NEW  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  NEED 2 MSU, USC, Or FSU TIX  CALL MIKE AT 634-1862.  
Experience the ultimate of all  POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­ HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101.  JANE AT 1-800-264-3278.  •  x3402  
sports-SKYDIVING! Train with Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and  DARS.THOSEINTEREST~D CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Help! Need 2 Ga's lor PITI, BC. or  I have 2 Boston College tickets  PERSONAL  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump  52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE  219-291·7153  USC. call x4·3650  (Nov. 20) which I will trade lor 2  
Course, with studentiD. West  1 OAM·6PM MON-FRI  Florida State tickets. Please call  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­ NEED MSU GA'S CALL MATI  Nick at312-222·6464  
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ Babysitter Needed: Various week­ Furnished house, Roseland, 3-4  X1524  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
ated. One hour North of South  days call if i'llerested: :!55-l'094  Bedroom. Good neighborhood  Need Pitt tix. Call Sam x1695  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
Bend. (616)628-4892  2n-3097  233-4767  
Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger.  NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR  NEED 4 PITI TIX; HAVE NW,  
Typing  IN. hiring lor: servers, bartenders,  EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR  MSU, USC, BC TIX; WILL TRADE;  SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The  
287-4082  line cook. Exp. pre!. but not nee. lor  BED AND BREAKFAST in private  11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT  CALL (201)487·9000  Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends.  
Info call272-7017  home. 2 twins, single w/ separate  1 BOO 543 0357  
WANTED: Students to paint my  bath-1 0 min from campus.  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  Huntington Graphics presents AN  
hOuse; experience preferred.  Newspaper carriers and branch  Reasonable 234-2626  272-7233.  EXHIBITION & SALE OF FINE ART  
267-7519  managers needed lor Notre Dame  NEED ALL TICKETS 271-6641  PRINTS· The sale includes 100's  
and St. Mary's campus. Call imme·  KEVIN  Need 2 GAs for Pitt.  of different art prints by DALI.  
jLoST&FOUNoj  dlately lor available positions: 232· 3205.  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR·  Please call Mike at x41662.  MATISSE, MONET. PICASSO. RENOIR, VAN GOGH & many oth­ 
DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT.  I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653  ers; rock posters; movie stars; M.C.  
LOST -Black framed glasses.  Babysitter with experience, trans­ $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA.  NEED GA'S FOR MSU, USC, FSU,  McEscher prints; black & white pho­ 
Please call Nlc at1441 IMPOR­ portation and references needed  JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-6444.  AND BC. JAY x1534  tography + scenic & wilelife photos.  
T ANTI  part-time days and evening In NO  TODAY, 9 AM-5PM  
professor home. Please call 232­2201.  FOR SALE  For Sale: 1 stud. ticket lor FSU. Make best offer of multiple lix or $.  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITIIII CALL KELLYx4270  NOTRE DAME ROOM 2nd floor, Lafortune.  
Lost: Student Football tlx  4-4310  
Row 43, Sec 30  TRAVELFREEICANCUN,  SOCCER CLEATS NEW ADIDAS  I Need 6 to B Pitt GA's-ext. 1620  MOST PRINTS: $7 each • 3 prints  
x1723  JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADRE!  COPA MUNDIAL SIZE 12 $50  Will give first-born son lor lour USC  ask lor Jon  lor only $171  
SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK  CALL MATI X1524  tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob  
Lost -NO class of '45 ring. Initials  PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­ at 273-0620.  WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
T.P.B. Inside. Blue stone. Reward.  SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  TICKET TO SAN FRAN.  
Call Dr. Bergin@ 631-6214.  TOURS 1-800-426-n10  '91 CAMARO AS Blue w/ Silver  Desperately seeking tickets for  (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC  
Strip on side, T -Top, Fancy Wheels,  Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call  TICKETSIII MIKE at X1573  Hey all you off-campus PWites ....  
WANTED  FRATSI SORORITIES! STUDENT GROUPS! Raise as Much as You  Power Window & locks, A/C, Wide tires. Less than 7000  Rich 2n·4769  Meet the new rector at the back to  
Want in One Weeki  miles. Never driven in winter or bad  I need MSU or Pitt tix. Please call  buy my st bklet x1432  school barbeque at the pit on  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  $100...$600 ... $15001 Market  weather. Ph 259·3953 alter  Kevin at X4469.  Wednesday evening.  
Experienced Student Painters need·  Applications for the hottest credit  4PM  
ed to paint South Bend area homes.  card ever-NEW GM MASTER­ I need 2 G.A.'s lor Pitt  That's a free meal (actually $.25) ...  
Full or Part Time.  CARD. Users earn BIG DIS­ Washer & dryer: lull-size Kenmore,  NEEDTIXII  And 2 G.A.'s for MSU.  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  COUNTS on GM CARS! Qualify lor  white, good condition: 3-cycle wash­ 4 MICH. STATE GA's  Will pay top dollar! Ill!  Come meet Sr Sue and the lrosh ...  
1-800-626-6267.  FREET-SHIRT & '94 GMC JIMMY.  er. electric dryer. Ready to go. $200  CALL Merrie X4544  Call Tom 273·8355.  Call April at 2773 if you have ???  
"painting America's homes coast to  CALL 1·800-950-1039, ext. 75.  each or $300 lor both. Jeff 288­ 
coasr  3878 alter 6 pm.  WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
IF YOU WANT PAPA JOHN'S  NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX  Need two oor three MSU GA's and  
LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER·  PIZZA @ 50% OFF AND YOU'RE  (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN  two Pitt GA's. Ask lor Bill. 234-8293.  Memorable quotes from the Cape:  
VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS,  LOOKING FOR A PART TIME  PORTABLE CD PLAYER, DEN­ 708-843-694 7.  
PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE  JOB...  NON DCP-30 8x OVERSAMPLING  Trade 2 or 3 Mich Stale GA's lor 2  ·Shep is mine  
RESPONSIBLE, MATURE AND  PAPA JOHN'S is now hiring inside  WITH ACCESSORIES. $160.  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  or 3 Pitt GA's. Bob 2n·2510  -Wiffle baiL We can play wiffle ball  
NON-SMOKER AND LIKE  personnel and delivery drivers.  MARTY 4-4461.  272-7233.  any time. I want to play cards.  
TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO·  FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES. 15·20  Need 1 Pill GA. Call x2969 Lisa  ·I'm going to bed, but I'll only be hall  
- TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT.  hrlwk and 20-lulltime hrlwk posi­ SEC. 28 STUD. TIX blo x3027  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  asleep. II you gel tired wake me up  
na-2s1s.  tions available. Set schedules also  2n-1659.  Student football ticket booklet lor  and I'll take the next shill.  
available. 5-7 inside positions and  sale. Call Laurie x3490  ·MARTHA'S VINEYARD-The  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI  10-15 driver positions available.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITISBURGH  Clinlons went lor a little dip in the  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  Stop In PAPA JOHN'S @ 54533  SOFA FOR SALE  GAME. CALL CARRIE AT 634·  Need Mich. St. & USC  ocean yesterday and alter being  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  Terrace Lane or call271-11n.  Sleeper sola in GREAT cond.  4416.  G.A.s call Mike x0600  knocked over by a wave, Chelsea  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  EOE.  Dan 232-7242  came up showing a little nip.  
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN.  SELLING BOOKLETS AND  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  -Do the Solid Gold Dance.  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY11-800­ BOSTON COLL GA'S. LUIS 273·  TICKETS BOOKLET  -The chafing was terrible.  
678-63861  brother word proc. lor sale  1528  271 96 98  -I'm going to flash the next car that  
I need ride to Penn State any  225 o.b.o. call chris X3040  comes by.  
$$$$  non-home football weekend.  NEED ONE FSU ·WILL TRADE  -We're not going to lose again.  
Looking lor a 1993 NO football sea­ Will pay gas and tolls. etc.  MSU & CASH. CALL COLLECT  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  Agreed. (oops ... loiled again.)  
son ticket bookletllll  (314)962-4876.  TICKET BOOKLET.  ·I will survive.  
thanksll call 284-5115  Please call Tim at X2032  232 4827  -I'm not going to be a Pat.  
$$$$  TICKETS  Need 1 MSU stud or GA call Kavita x4520  NEED FSU & USC Gas or my  (oops ... loiled again) -He's a tool.  
Need volunteers NO and SMC girls  parents will DISOWN me  -Can I say this? You have pretty  
Grad stu. wants to SHARE COM­ to coach and referee lor Sat. morn­ I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  Married std lix 4 sale @271-0783  please help Kyle 288·5282  boobies.  
MUTE TO/FM CHICAGO Brian 269­ ing flag football program for kids  TIXS.272-6306  -That's 01 and Weed's bed.  
3234 M·W 312-068-4227 Th-Sun.  ages 7 -13 starting Sept. 11. Call  Need student tickets and FSU GA's,  4 SALE MSU STUDENTS  -Projectile Pat  
Paul Roy 232-2794.  please call 4-3281.  232·3736  -Obstructed view seats ... how bad  
LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE  NEED 2 FSU TICKETS  can they be.  
& HONEST YOUNG LADY TO WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE.  FOR RENT  HELP! -ND/FSU MARRIAGE (904) 398-6146.  $$ HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S $$ PARENTS PAYING BIG MONEY  Sell2 booklets; 2 GAs:Pits,USCs.  Oh the memories ... ! know I forgot a  
HOURS FLEXIBLE, PREFERABLY  NATALIE 273-0520  272-7034  lew... Thanx guys and gals lor a  
DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN  FURNISHED ROOM FOR RENT.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  great week.  
NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL  $150/MQ. 287-2159.  NEED 2 FSU TICKETS  Need MSU GA or Stud will trade  
273-4888 FOR MORE INFORMA­ (904) 398-6146  BADLY NEED BYU GA'S AND 1  Pill or USC or Cash CALL x1744  F'AT IS GREAT  
TION. IMMEDIATE START.  6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  MSU GA. ASK FOR JOHN X4618.  
WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO.  Have 1 MICHIGAN GA lor sale  Married std lix 4 sale C2n-4253  
7-Eieven Comer of Ironwood &  PER PERSON.  I NEED STUDENT SEASON TIX  NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN  CALL x1463 and leave message  
Edison now taklng applications lor  2 BEDROOM, $295 MO.  AND GA's ALL GAMES  STATE GA'S CALL SCOTI X4074  
lull lime and part·llrne WOIX. All  1 BEDROOM, $225 MO.  JASON 233-4008  
shifts available, please apply at the  ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM- Will trade: 4 BC lix lor 2 or 4 MSU  $ Feverish Alumni in need oi4GAs  


Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT 
page 13 

WIN$5,000*EVERY DAY FOR DOING WHAT YOU'D DO AN ~Y: 
CALL YOUR PARENTS COLLECT. 
It's as easy as dialing 
Call as often as you 1-800-COLLECTt instead like. There are winners of zero, when you make a everyday. collect call. You'll also save up to 
It's the 1-800-COLLECT 44% with 1·800-COLLECT. $5,000 DAILY GIVEAWAY. It's America's Inexpensive 
Just complete your col­Way To Call Someone lect call between August Collect:M Use it every time 30 and September 28, you make a long distance and you'll have a chance collect call. That's all to share $5,000 with the there is to it. person whose number Bet you call Mom and you're calling. Dad more than ever. 
Savings vs. AT&T 3 min. operator dialed Interstate collect call. 
THE 1-800-COLLECT $5,000 DAILY GIVEAWAY 
*1 -BOO-COLLECT $5,000 DAILY GIVEAWAY. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. ALL ENTRANTS ARE BOUND BY COMPLETE RULES WHICH ARE AVAILABLE 3v .::ALLING 1 -BOO·RULES4U. FOR EACH DAY FROM B/30/93 THROUGH 9/2B/93 (30 DAYS), 1 -BOO-COLLECT WILL GIVE AWAY A GRAND PRIZE OF $5,00011. TO ENTER BY MAKING A 1 -BOO-COLLECT CALL: Each time you make a 1 -Bn:J-COLLECT domestic telephone call (within the U.S. and Puerto Rico) d·uring the pro­motion period indicated, and the collect calling charges are accepted, you and the individual or company whose name appears on the telephone bill for the numt>"r called (hereinafter referred to as Call Recipient) are eligible to be randomly select· ed as potential winners to share a daily prize of $5,000. Calling day is 12:00 midnight EDT up to the following 12:00 midnight EDT. 2. No purchase or telephone call necessary. TO ENTER BY MAIL, hand print your name, address, zip code and daytime telephone number on a plain piece of 3" x 5" paper and mail in a hand-addressed 4 1/B" x 91/2" (#10) envelope, with first class postage affixed, to: 1-800-COLLECT Giveaway, P.O. Box 4396, Blair, NE 6B009. IMPORTANT: ON LOWER LEFT HAND CORNER OF MAILING ENVELOPE, YOU MUST PRINT THE SPECIFIC DATE OF THE PRIZE GIVEAWAY (FROM B/30 through 9/2B/93) FOR WHICH YOUR ENTRY IS DESIGNATED. Enter as many times as you wish for as many days as you wish, but each entry must be mailed separately. No mechanically reproduced entries permitted. Entries must be received by 5 business days after prize giveaway date indicated on your mailing envelope to be eligible for that daily prize. 
3. SELECTION OF WINNERS: Each daily winner will be randomly selected from among all eligible 1-BOO-COLLECT telephone call entries and all eligible mail-in entries received for that day's giveaway. Random selection will take place 6 days after the specific prize giveaway date. Odds of winning a prize will depend on the number of eligible 1 ·BOO-COLLECT telephone calls completed each day and the time of day the call was made, and on the number of mail-in entries designated for each day's prize award. Odds will vary each day of the promotion based on the above factors. Odds of winning via mail-in entry will be as good as odds of winning via telephone entry. 4. PRIZES: 1 Grand Prize per day of $5,000, divided equally between Caller and Call Recipient. Call Recipient, portion of the prize will be awarded to the individual or company whose name appears on the telephone bill for the telephone number called. If potential winner has entered via mail, he/she subse · quently will be required to give name, address and telephone number of individual with whom he/she wishes to share prize equally. 5. GENERAL RULES: To be eligible, callers/mail-in entrants must be 16 years or older as of B/30/93. Sponsor's employees directly involved in the planning and implementation of this promotion and employees of Ws advertising and promotion agencies, and their immediate family members and/or those living in same household of each are not eligible for any prize, either as an entrant or designated recipient. lfeither potential winner of a daily prize is not eligible, per the above, that entire $5,000 prize will not be awarded. Void where prohibited by law. No substitution or transfer of prize permitted. All fed· eral, state and local taxes are the sole responsibility of winner. All federal, state and local laws and regulations apply. Not responsible for malfunctioning or breakdown of telephone systems, for faulty telephone transmission or for lost, late or mis · directed entries. In the event that technical difficulties prevent selection of a winner for any daily prize of the promotion, that prize will be awarded on the following day. Random selection of winners will be under the supervision of D.L. Blair, Inc., an independent judging organization whose decisions are final. By participating in this promotion, entrants agree to be bound by the Official Rules and decisions of the judges. COMPLETE rules are subject to any requirements or limitations that may be imposed by the Federal Communications Commission. 
page: 14 The Observer • U.S. OPEN TENNIS Tuesday, Spetember 7, 1993 
Round of 16 not too sw-eet for Martina Navratilova 

By STEVE WILSTE1N 
Associat"d Pras 
NEW YORK 

The sad look in Martina Navratilova's eyes, the weak, final wave to the crowd, the disgust in her voice, all told the story U.S. Open fans hated to hear. 
Suddenly, she was gone in the round of 16 Monday, beat­en by Helena Sukova again at a crucial moment in her career. 
This time, Sukova won 7-5, 6­4, her long arms reaching out to swat returns that Navratilova was a bit too slow to catch. Once before, Sukova was there to stop Navratilova's bid for a Grand Slam, in 1984 at the Australian Open, and end her 7 4-match winning streak. 
The loss left the United States without a women's singles quarterfinalist for the first time in the tournament's history, dating to 1887. 
Navratilova. a month shy of 37, was the oldest player in the Open and she gave it more life than anyone. Fans packed her matches, cheered her almost the way they cheered Jimmy Connors when he made his final charges at 39 and 40. They wanted her to win a fifth Open, show everyone she wasn't too old, too slow to do it again. 
In truth, she was. She couldn't get to the net quickly enough to pick up Sukova's returns. She couldn't volley with the agility and sharpness she had for so many years. She hit too many shots just a tad wide or long, and she couldn't put pressure on Sukova's serves. 
"They just weren't falling," Navratilova said. "I felt like I was playing golf. They weren't going in by inches. I didn't make one lob. l tried that shot too many times. If I play well, I win easily. If I'm a little ofT it's always a struggle. There wasn't any luck for me today. She made some great shots and l didn't. 
"The crowd was fantastic. 
This is what l always wanted. 
To have the chance and the 
crowd. Then I blow it. l was 
tied up in knots. I didn't let 
myself go and play with reck­
less abandon." 
It was Sukova, 6-foot-2 with 
long pipestem arms, who had 
the lucky net cords, the shots 
that nicked the edges of the 
lines, the calls that went her 
way. She needed all that luck. 
She had been out 2 1/2 months 
this year with a broken foot, 
and she was the second oldest 
in the tournament at 28. 
And just like that, in 1 hour, 
23 minutes, Navratilova was 
gone like so many other top 
players in this Open. 
This loss, Navratilova said, 
makes her think about quitting tennis. And it makes her think about fighting back, going for a championship once more. 
"Unfortunately, all those things go through my head in the match," she said. "It doesn't matter how much you win. You want to win one more time. l had a chance here and I blew it. It's like a drug. You want to taste it one more time. It's not like I need it. It would be a nice way to go. I know my game is there. My mind won't let me perform. That's what aggravates me, and why I bang my head on the wall." 
In other women's matches, No. 2 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario beat No. 14 Nathalie Tauziat 6­4, 6-3; No. 10 Magdalena Maleeva defeated her sister Katerina 6-2, 6-3, and Natalia Zvereva beat the "lucky loser" from qualifying, Maria Jose Gaidano, to reach the quarters. 
Among the men, Pete Sampras and Michael Chang set up a quarterfinal match and got to ruminate on old times. Alexander Volkov also advanced to the quarters, beat­ing Chuck Adams 6-2, 7-6 (7-2), 
6-1. 

Fourteen years ago, Sampras and Chang played each other for the first time on a school court in Poway, Calif.. near San Diego. They were about 7 years old, toting big rackets they needed both hands to swing. 
Neither one can remember who won, though Sampras thinks he might have taken it and Chang recalls it went three sets. 
Now the U.S. Open quarters will be their playground follow­ing Sampras' 6-4, 6-4 7-6 (7-4) victory over Thomas Enqvist and Chang's 6-4, 6-3, 6-4 deci­sion over Wayne Ferreira. 
"It is pretty amazing where 
we have come from and now 
where we are," Sampras said. 
"He is the youngest French 
Open winner. I am the youngest 
U.S. Open winner. There are pretty interesting memories to go back to." 
They played each other all 
the way through the juniors, 
and then eight matches as pro­
fessionals, Chang winning six of 
those. 

"He had a great two-hand backhand down the line, great forehand down the line that he still has," Chang said of the young Sampras. 
Instead of the ribbons and 
trophies, the stakes this time go 
far beyond the $535,000 to the 
Open winner or the $70,000 to 
an Open quarterfinalist. 
Sampras, the 1990 Open champion who is coming off a Wimbledon victory, is trying to regain the No. 1 ranking he held so briefly this year. Chang, the 1989 French Open champi­on, is going for a second Grand Slam that would significantly raise his status in tennis. 


~ SATURDAY ~SEPTEMBER 11,1993 
10:30 AM ST. JOE BEACH 
1/2 MILE SWIM 2 MILE RUN THREE DIVISIONS: 
W~fRi®GtrW 00© ff!}~ W~fRi ®TiJW 
IY~~[MJ 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS [ 






i'-l 
631-6100 FOR MORE INFO )~ 

AP File Photo 

Martina Navratilova lost in straight sets Monday to Helena Sukova in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. 
As aMarine Officer, }00 could be in charge ofa afreihman orsophomore, ask about ourllllder-
Mach 2+ F/A-1AA, a\tttical take-offHarrier or grnduate officer commissioning progr.uns. Ifyou're a oneofourolher jets orheJicopters. And }00 could junior, checkoutourgraduate prograntc;. Starting doitbythetime)OO're23. Butitlakesaspecial salaries are from $22,000 to $32,000. And;;
oommitmenton }OOf part~ ..----------~ }OU can count on tfil 
demandleddersatallle\ds. ro ~,...J.~ar goingfurther...taster. Q .­~teach you to be one.lf}OO're Ui ~ilJ Ul.,~••• The Few. The Proud. TheMJuines. 
faster. 


Congratulations to seniors Gerry Boyle, Michelle Jennings, Howie Lanser and to junior Tim Young on their graduations from Officer Candidates School. Capt Dennis Hollahan will be at the LaFortune Center Tuesday and Wednesday from 10:00 to 2:00. Stop by or call 1-800-945-3088. 

f nor ~ ~~rt~--·~~? ... t-.,. 
Tuesday, Spetember 7, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Women's tennis tryouts will be >Thursday Septemher 9 at 
3:00 at the Courtney Tennis Center. Anyone interested in trying out MUST contact the tennis offic¢atl..:5t49. ·•··· Notre Dame Sports lnformati()n. i~ looking for volunteer 1lelp for the 1993-94 academic YE!a:t'· .Ql# qffice harl.(iler; s~tistiCSJ. press releases and media guides fqt; all Irish varsity sports. F()11
more information, call Rose at 631--7516. ····· · · ······· 
Any St. Mary's College students interested in trying out for the varsity basketball team should attend a meeting on Tuesday Sept. 7 at 4:30p.m. in the Angelo Athletic Facility. 
~nyone living off--campus whol!>interested in pl!l.yingmen'i mterbaU football should meet atStepan Field on Tqesday Sept. 7 at 4:30. If you have any questionscall Matt at 273-8859: · · 
NO Rugby Club practices everyday at 4:15 at Stepan Field any­
one interested in coming must bring a mouthpiece and cleats.. ··· 
The Notre Dame·Hockey team WjllsUkscreen your clean; plait( T-shirts and sweatshirts at Student Activities Night, free of charge. All track athletes interested in th.e indoor or outdoor season: there will be a meeting on Sept. 9 at 4:30 in Loftus ..· 
Women's safety and self-defense-Cours~ o~Jective is. to expose women to ·basic self-defense techniques as used'in real~ life situations. Classes begin Monday, September iS.. 10 ses· sions on Mondays and Wednesdays, 6:30·7:45 PM, Rockne Rm.. 
219. Class size is llinited and open.to students/faculty/staff and requires a $9.00 fee. For more information call631-6100. 
Sh.orfn RYU J.<arate •Student~ are instrncteq ~ccording
w 

Okinawan techniques. Classes begin Monday, >$l!pterill!er 1 
and run throughout the semester &U. Mondays and Wednesd 
4:30-6:00 and requires a $Ui\00 fee. Demonstrati 
Wednesday, September 8, 5:00 P~ in Rockne 3()t~ For more 
information call631-6100 ··· · · 
SCUBA diving course· YMCA, Jit~tifue certifi 
begin Sunday, September··12 •• iSE!ven classroo ·.. 
sions meeting on Sundays 3:30-1:30 PM Importan o 
meeting Wednesday, September 8, 6:00PM in Rockne 218. 
For more information call631-6100. · 
Biathlon· 1/2 mile switn and 2 mUe·run. Saturday, September 
11, 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach. Three diVisions: yarsity, Non, 
yarsity: and Team:. Register in .ll. ce at Re~Sp9ttl:t Form 
mfonnation call 631·6100. tJiiii: 

,,_~·'•····· .. 
'I'>-'·. 

DATE: Thursday, September 9th LOCATION: Stepan Center 
[ -~··' .i 
! ·. 
-, . 

TIME: 
7:00-10:00 PM 

STARTER. The lead,1g aulheollC apparel &headwear licensee of the NFL NBA. MLB. NHL and the NCAA now br;~gs 1Ju STARTER "~HE BRAND 
Washington's pass rush concerns Cooper 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio {AP) 

According to NCAA rules, Ohio State players may devote 40 hours a week to football. 
Coach John Cooper talked 
Monday as if he'd like to allot all of it to working on preventing 12th-ranked Washington from wreak­


ing havoc on John Cooper his quarterback Saturday night. "We're going to have to spend hour after hour after hour this week pass-protect­ing," Cooper said. "Not only blocking the guy across from you, but having a scheme where we can pick up where the rushes are coming from and on each particular pass we try to throw." Both teams are 1-0, with 16th-ranked Ohio State pound­ing overmatched Rice 34-7 and Washington gaining a measure of revenge over Stanford and coach Bill Walsh with a surpris­ingly easy 31-14 lashing of the Cardinal. Walsh had made negative statements about the Huskies in light of NCAA and Pac-10 Conference sanctions. Washington is banned from bowl games the next two years and cannot receive any televi­sion money. Then Don James shocked the Pacific Northwest by resigning as head coach in protest. So, the Huskies took out some of their anger and frustration with seven sacks of Stanford quarterbacks. Walsh's vaunted passing attack was in shambles 
., 
.... '• 

in the face of the Washington rush. 
"You all know how much Bill Walsh knows about the passing game and pass blocking and schemes," Cooper said. "Their quarterback was running for his life. He did not have time to sit in the pocket. You are not going to set up in the pocket if this guy's covered, then you're going to look over there and throw the ball. That doesn't happen. 
"You'd better set up and throw it and throw it in a hurry or do one hell of a job of pro­tecting your quarterback because they flat get after you. 
"Usually they're going to bring four rushers from one side. Your problem is determin­ing what side those four are coming from. Are they coming from the back, the front or the middle?" 
Ohio State quarterback Bob Hoying completed 13 of 22 passes for 144 yards with a touchdown and no'li>iHercep­tions against Rice. He was sacked once and hurried a cou­ple other times, while Ohio State's ballyhooed defensive front did not have a sack. 
"I've got to count on my line­
men to get the job done," 
Hoying said. "Then I have to 
drop back and make some 
plays. It won't be like it was 
Saturday. I've got to make 
some decisions.' 
Washington's new head 
coach is Jim Lambright, named 
to take over when James 
resigned·. Lambright was the 
Huskies' defensive coordinator 
the last 16 years and oversaw 
the change to a head-hunting, 
quarterback-eating defense. 
"We've tried to design a 
defense that gives a quarter-
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
A win against Butler would start the team on the positive not it is looking for as it enters an integral part of its schedule. Following the Bulldogs, highly regarded Wisconsin and Indi­ana await a visit from the Irish. And then a return home finds 
N.C. State, SMU and Michigan State waiting. 
"It is real important for us to get a win," said Petrucelli. "This gives us another chance to see what we are capable of doing. It is important for our growth. 
"The Butler game is always a good game, because they match our energy. It will give us a good idea of the intensity of teams we will face later in the season." 
This Week in Notre Dame Sports 


Women's V:l:::.~pener We:~~~ 
vs. Washington ~/ Tuesday 9/7 7:30 pm ~ ff' JACC Arena ~· ;:7. · 
~ ,-~ Women's S;ccer ~-­vs. Butler .. F Tuesday 9/7 7:00pm

:;;__g. 

Alumni Field 
FREE admission for either game to students who show their J.D. card 
Stop by on your way to or from Student Activities Night·-Look for the Sports Marketing table if you'd like to get involved with our promotions. 
, 

Photo courtesy of Ohio State Sports 
Information Fullback Jeff Cothran will lead Ohio State against highly-touted Washington Saturday in Columbus. 
back problems as far as pre­reading the defense goes," he said by telephone. ''I'm sure Ohio State will give its quarter­backs simple answers to what we're doing.'' 
Those answers would include quick-hitters, the draw play, screen passes and the shorter, quicker pass routes. 
Ohio State's insurance policy is backup quarterback Bret Powers. Powers played against Washington, which went on to win the national championship while a quarterback at Arizona State two years ago. 
Powers hit 5-of-8 passes for 102 yards with one touchdown and one interception against Rice. 

Photo courtesy of ND Sports Information 
Junior Jill Matesic will be a start­ing defender in tonight's home opener against Butler. 
-
-
-· 
.. 
page 16 

By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 
O.J. McDuffie wanted to make his NFL debut memo­rable. Now he'll try to forget it. 
The Miami Dolphins' top draft pick fumbled the first time he touched the ball Sunday, and Rodney Culver raced 56 yards with the bob­bled punt return for an 
Indianapolis touchdown. Miami recovered f r o m McDuffie's first-quarter mistake to 

"I thought about it a lot during the game," McDuffie said Monday. "It did fester a little bit, and I think it did put a damper on the rest of my game. I wasn't big enough to overcome it right away." 
McDuffie later fumbled a kickoff in the end zone. Teammate Terry Kirby recov­ered deep in Miami territory through the play was negated by a penalty on the Colts. 
As a reserve receiver, McDuffie failed to catch a pass. Altogether, he had one lousy day and hopes to redeem himself Sunday against the New York Jets. 
"I was disappointed, of course, but the team got a win out of it, so I'm happy with the end result," he said. 
The Dolphins' other offen­sive newcomers fared better. Rookie running back Kirby caught four passes for 29 yards. Receiver Irving Fryar Jed Miami with six catches for 81 yards, and receiver Mark Ingram caught three passes for 22 yards, all in the second half. 
The best debut was by Keith Byars, who gained 43 yards on six carries and caught three passes for 19 yards. Byars' rushing yardage ex­ceeded the total of his prede­cessor, Tony Paige, for the past two seasons combined. 
"Keith gives you another weapon back there," coach Don Shula said. "We're excit­ed about that. A lot of his runs were from a formation that we pass a lot from, so to have a running threat from that formation is important to 
us." 
"lliggs was running well for us so we wanted to utilize him," Shula said. 
"That's being a risk-taker, I guess." 

•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued on-the-spot. 

•lnternationaiiD 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 


•Expert travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. DeartJom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine! 

By CRAIG HORST open~d '~~*'season with ll. 2 
0. 
J. McDuffie wants to forget NFL debut 


Asrocia1«! Press  vJct  r Tamp ·  
Sun  .. l'Jl migh:  
KANSAS CITY. Mo,tlJjum  ,  ..... fthep~ ··.,.....  

More than a few hearts skipped a beat when Joe Montana was escorted to the X-ray machine with a wound· ed throwing hand. 
Hearts like that of Kansas City Chiefs president Carl Peterson. The man who proba· bly took this season's biggest NFL gamble when he traded for Montana and signed him to a three-year contract. 
Hearts like Paul Hackett's, the Chiefs offensive coordina· tor who was watching from the press box. Hearts like coach Marty Schottenheimer's who has pinned his Super Bowl hopes on that wrist. 
"I tried not to overreact until I heard," Hackett said after Kansas City and Montana 
Engineering student? Smart. Math or science major? Also smart. On tests, you probably run equations over again to make sure they're right. So you're working harder. You don't have to do that anymore. Not when you use the Tl,68 Advanced Scientific or n,ss Graphics Calculator, with their last equation replay feature -and many other smart functions. We've spent years with students like you 
0 1993 Texas lnstrumcncs lncorporaced ll-1000101A 
all ora. sudd~n they sa~tJ was something wrong;'··:, 
Montana suffered a bruised right wrist in the third quarter when his hand connected with the helmet of Tampa Bay line­backer Broderick Thomas. The injury came on yet another perff'ctly thrown pass · · ·· Willi~ ~.~yi~ dropped tn end~!)ne. .·. · 
Nonplussed, Montana thre a 12-yard touchdown pass to Marcus Allen on the next play before leaving the game with the Chiefs leading 24-3. 
' 

'I knew it wasn't that bad because I threw the next pass," Montana said. "I coul~'ve kept throwing a~d J prob{lbly ~()l.lld have gone hac~ in.. I ji.Ist told them it was aUt·' 
)joY;;;·. 
~')sore and it was starting to 
ell a little, and they wanted .alrsome X-:rays.'' was a· day that Montana 
ew pr'ecisely..,.... Merytbing and more that Peterson and 
' Hackett could have hoped for, even though the Bucs showed they have a long way to go before becoming competitive. Montana completed his frrst nine passes and finished 14-of­21 for 246 yards and three touchdowns. 
·· · The Chiefs had limited Montana's throwing during training camp~ he only threw in the afternoon -and when he was hurt with the game clearly won, there was no way that he would play again. 
"No way we're going to put him back in there," Peterson said. "I told Marty we ought to have an automatic rule that Joe doesn't play if we're up by 21 points in the second half.'' 

The Chiefs might be the rich­est team in the NFL at quarter· back with Dave Krieg, the longtime Seattle veteran who played every down for Kansas City last year, as Montana's replacement. Krieg completed 4-of-5 passes for 34 yards. 
"He (Montana) was wanting to go back in but I said no," Schottenheimer said. "I told Dave Krieg when (Montana) got here, 'We'll need both of you.' And we will.'' 
Montana will be back Sunday when the Chiefs play Houston. Peterson was happy with the first return on his gamble. So were Schottenheimer and Hackett. 
"I thought he threw it pretty good," Schottenheimer said tongue-in-cheek. 
''The production was there, but that's his game: comple· 
tions," Hackett said. 


and educators like your profes, sors to develop the n,68 and the n,ss. That's why they're so highly recommended. 
For engineering students, the n,68 solves up to five simul, taneous equations, has complex number functions and offers formula programming. 
The Tl,85 builds on the power of the TI,68 by adding a wide range ofgraphing capabil, ities. Math students can handle calculus problems more easily. And technical students can see complex numbers. Matrices. Vectors. Lists. Strings. Plus, it offers a powerful one,equation SOLVER 
... t<, . Try ~ Tl,68 orTl,85 a~ . your local TI retailer today. And start working smarter. Instead of harder. 
.TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
! _•...!f!!l 


--~-~----------­
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 The Observer • AMERICAN LEAGUE EAST page 17 
Faltering Toronto opens door for AL East contenders ­

AP File Photo Toronto Blue Jays' manager Cito Gaston (right) is trying to cure his team's woes as they try to elude New York and Baltimore in the American League East race. 
Blue Jays putting plans for third straight division title on hold 

Ken Griffey, Jr. and the Seattle Mariners were the latest victim of Baltimore's eight-game winning streak. 
Notes: In his last 22 games against the Mariners, Devereaux has eight homers and 27 RBis. In his last 14 games before Monday, Devereaux was 7 -for-60 (.117) with a home run and five RBls. 
... The Mariners, who entered the game with only five errors in their last 25 games and the best fielding percentage in the major leagues, made errors in each of the first two innings. 
... Before the game, Oates was in a shouting match with first baseman Gleim Davis. Davis was mad he was not in the starting lineup.... The Orioles finish the season with four games at home against the 13lue Jays. 
By JIM DONAGHY 
Associated Press 
The Toronto Blue Jays were supposed to make a runaway in the American League East. Going into the fmal four weeks of the season, they show no signs of doing that. 
They thought they would get a little lead with a 10-game road trip to Seattle, Oakland and California. But they lost three of four at the Kingdome and were swept at Anaheim over the weekend to finish 4-6 on the trip. 
"You can't get frustrated about who beats you," Toronto second baseman Roberto Alomar said. "They're a big­league team. They're trying to win. There's nobody to blame. If we could put pitching and hit-· ting together all the time, we'd be the best team in the big leagues. But everything can't always work at the same time." 
"This is too good a team not to bounce back," center fielder Devon White said. "We have too many good players." 
Sunday's loss left the Blue Jays in a first-place tie with New York in the East. Baltimore, considered out of the race a week ago, was only 2 112 games out heading into Monday night's home game against Seattle. 
The Yankees could move into sole possession of the lead Monday night with a win at Texas. 
The Blue Jays, meanwhile, start a three-game series against Oakland Tuesday night followed by three more against California at the SkyDome. Both teams are under .500, and again the Blue Jays hope to make a move. 
One major problem for Toronto has been sta·rting-. pitching. Jack Morris is 7-12 with a 6.17 ERA, Dave Stewart is 8-10, Todd Stottlemyre also is 8-10 and Al Leiter is 7-6. The 
only reliable starter has been 
Pat Hentgen (16-8), Sunday's 
loser at California. 
It's surprising that a lineup 
that also includes Alomar, Paul 
Molitor and Joe Carter can be 
struggling so much lately. 
"We haven't consistently put 
pitching and hitting together all 
year," manager Cito Gaston 
said. "And the whole year, we 
haven't had a month of good 
pitching. We're fortunate to be 
where we are, considering all 
the changes we've gone 
through since last season." 
If the Blue Jays' pitching 
doesn't improve down the 
stretch, it's unlikely they will 
win unless the Yankees and 
Orioles also falter. Toronto fin­
ishes the season with four 
games at Baltimore while the 
Yankees play Detroit at home. ·-·--· 
On their last homestand, the 
Blue Jays lost two of three to 
Seattle before taking two of 
three from Cleveland. 
Sheets. David Valle scored 
Magadan with a single for a 1-0 
lead.
LAST CHANCE! 
But the Orioles came back in the bottom of the inning, taking 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 
a 2-1 lead on Voight's two-run 
1994-95 homer. Devereaux led off the flfth with a solo shot, his 13th homer, to make it 3-1. 
Baltimore added two runs in
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
the eighth on Mark McLemore's bases-loaded single. 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 
Orioles continue torrid pace at Camden 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-After seven straight wins on the road, the Baltimore Orioles got their six­game homestand off to a good start, too. 
Jack Voigt and Mike Devereaux each hit home runs as the Orioles beat the Seattle Mariners 5-1 Monday night, ex­tending their winning streak to eight and moving within two games of first place in the AL East. 
"It's been a lot of fun this past week," Devereaux said. "Our pitchers have been throwing well and keeping us in the ball game. That helps. We can't get too far ahead of ourselves. We have to take it one game at a time because we 
have to play Seattle again." Starter Ben McDonald (11­
11) allowed six hits in 7 1-3 innings and won for the sev­enth time in his last 12 starts. Alan Mills pitched the final1 2­3 innings for his second save. 
"Fhe victory, coupled with the New York Yankees' loss to Texas, moved Baltimore to within two games of idle Toronto. During their current streak, the Orioles have gained four games on the Blue Jays. 
"We're two games behind Toronto," Devereaux said. "Hopefully, we'll put every­thing together. It seems like it's going that way. The hitters are starting to come through." 
Losing pitcher Dave Fleming (10-3) allowed five runs on seven hits and walked six in 7 2-3 innings. 
"I've been struggling all year," Fleming said. "I'm about 100 innings away from where I was last year." 
Seattle loaded the bases off McDonald in the second on a single and stolen base by Dave Magadan, a walk to Mike Blowers and a single by Larry 
131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
GIANT 
Tbe~~c:llolaf 

In the city... on the road... Or in the mountains...


Welcome Students 



Giant takes your cycling seriously. 
Giant bicycles are designed, engineered and crafted to be your precisely right choice.

BAPTIST 
They're easy to ride, easy to enjoy and easy to afford...Let us help you choose the one that fits your cycling needs.
Student 
k BRIG H T•s 7

Union 
255-8988 2720 Lincoln way West
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun 
r-------------LEJlQ£/s.£:.9§~ ~!!Q!]!QQQg _____________ 
!FREE $39951 FREE $9951 
: U Lock Guarantee
~(\ September 1 3 7 p.m. 
1 with purchase of bike ouer 
Lock and Cable
I $300 
:one coupon per visit. with purchase of
)0 \ at the Center for 
:Not valid with other pro­
bike under $300
:motions.
\)S-Social Concerns 
Lexpires 9/30/93 expires 9/30/93 
----------------------~L---------------------­
.­

page 18 The Observer • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
Sanderson helps Giants
-
cling to NL West lead 
By WENDY E. lANE Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

ln his last three starts. Scott Sanderson bore no resem­blance to the pitcher that lost 10 straight decisions. 
Waived by California after dropping ·nine in a row, he 
·pitched six shutout innings 
Monday in San Francisco's 4-1 
victory over the Pittsburgh 
Pirates as the Giants returned 
home trying to hold on in the 
NL West. 
Sanderson helped the Giants 

widen their lead to three 
games over Atlanta, which 
was to play later Monday at 
Los Angeles, and send the 
Pirates to their fifth straight 
loss. He combined with three 
other San.Francisco pitchers 
on a four-hitter. 
With San Francisco's aces, 

Bill Swift and John Burkett, 
struggling, Sanderson (3·1) is 
becoming a key contributor 
down the stretch. 
"We've had different heroes 

at different times,'' Giants 
manager Dusty Baker said. 
"Burkett and Swift can't win 
every time. Nobody can." 
Picke4 up off waivers from 

the Angels on Aug. 3, 
Sanderson won his third 
straight game as a. Giant. He 
lost his first game with San 
Francisco to extend his losing 
streak to 10 games, but has 
been strong since then, giving 
up five earned runs in 22 in­
nings. 
Agf1lnst the Pirates, he 

retired 12 of the 13 batters 
after the second inning. He al· 
lowed two hits, struck out four 
and walked one before leaving 
with what Baker said was a 
sore shoulder. Rod Beck pitched the ninth for his 41st save. 
"I had great control today," Sanderson said. "I was throw· ing the ball pretty much where I wanted to. I had some great defense out there. Those guys made some great plays." 
Third baseman Matt Williams stabbed Jeff King's sharp liner in the fo\lrtb inning, and Darren Lewis made several difficult catches in center field to help Sanderson. 
Sanderson worked his way out of a jam in the second, when Pittsburgh put a runner at third base with one out. Martin hit a pop foul, but Sanderson walked Don Slaught. The Giants pitcher then got Tom Foley on a pop fly to end the threat. 
The Pirates didn't get a run until the seventh, when AI Martin doubled off Dave Burba and scored on Kevin Young's pinch-hit single. ·• 
"They got the big hits. W~ didn't," Pirates manager Jitn Leyland said. "We didn't swing the bats at all." 
The Giants scored two runs in the fourth, when Paul Wagner (5-7) issued a leadoff walk to Willie McGee. Barry Bonds' hit-and-run single moved McGee to third, and Bonds stole second before both runners scored on Royce Clayton's two-out single. 
Clayton went 2-for-3 after going 6-for-31 on San Francisco's nine-game road trip. He got a lift from a pre­game talk with Baker, who reminded him that the team relies on him for two-out RBis. 
Clemens' problems a mystery 

By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 

BOSTON 
It's become a familiar routine after his starts this season ­trying to figure out what's wrong with Roger Clemens. 
Some batters say he's not throwing as many forkballs. Others say they're seeing fewer fastballs. Scouts claim he's lost confidence in his curveball. Opposing managers say he's lost his control. Fans wonder if he's hurt. 
There have been almost as many theories as there have been losses this season for the Boston right-hander, whose record fell to 10-12 with a loss Sunday to the Kansas City Royals. 
Whatever the reason -and Clemens does not subscribe to any of those theories -the three-time Cy Young Award winner is two games under .500 for the first time since June 1987 and has a 4. 95 ERA at home this season. 
Clemens has hit eight batters this season and has walked 57 in 173 1-3 innings. nearly one every three innings. He aver­aged only one walk per four innings during the previous three years. 
Gary Gaetti, whose grand slam off Clemens led to the Royals' 5-2 victory Sunday, said Clemens is throwing fewer fast­balls than in previous years. 
Clemens had never given up a grand slam in 2,203 previous innings in the major leagues. 
"Generally he gives the long one up with nobody on, but I'm sure there's a lot of firsts for him in his career this year," Boston manager Butch Hobson said. 

Clemens, who entered the game with a 14-4 career record and a 1.48 ERA against Kansas City, has only one win in his last nine starts. He is 0-4 with a 
7.98 ERA in his last five Fenway Park starts. 
Clemens, whose career ERA was 2.80 entering this season, led the American League in ERA the past three seasons. He has an ERA of 4.15 this year. 
But even in his worst season. Clemens still is feared and admired by opposing batters. 
"In my opinion. he's still in the top five as far as the best pitchers in baseball," Gaetti said. "When he's done. he'll be looked upon as one of the greatest that ever played and he'll have the numbers to back it up." 
It doesn't matter what 
time you call ...
IEKKIFIC 
UESDAY 
UJ muunc 
UESDAT 
-r 
SPECIAL
0 

CHEESE 
... DOMINATOR $6.95
Zc:c 

EXTRA 
TOPPINGS... $1.90EACH
:EN 

DOMINATOR 
DELIVERED
ON 

TO STUDENTS ONLY 
ca. 3 OIPECTICilAR 
SLICES oder~thyour 
I'll~~ favorite toppings. Over 2feet long. 
~LS \._A_/ 30 inches...That's almost ayard of pizza. 
Vcbl at ~sla'os orly. Not void wllh TWISlY BREAD & SAUCE .... 1.95 ""' -ollor. Pnon may """' CUttanor poys 
Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce sails lOX -·QPiitcoiH. DIINWy or... -Available Upon Request 
to ............. ~· ou--CCilV ltSI 
lhon $20.00. ou-_,...not panallztd lor 
lalt-1993 Scull a.ld Pizza Carp., nc. 
COKE or DIET COKE .....65/ can 1.95/2-liter
lJrTiltd llmtOk 


------------~ --------·---·-------~i 
.. ": i'

• •• •.. * ~i· ..:.Y • ~, . 

j 
TODAY 
Tuesday, September 7, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

-
@1988.Universal Press i 9:,2-'/ 
Ancient exterminators 
ACROSS 33 Facilitates 59 Bankers' confirmations OF INTEREST
35 Self11mpetuous 63Words of38 Laughton film:5 Cleaned, in a comprehension1932way 64Worship42 Printers'10 Season 65 Steady lookmeasures14 Hodgepodge 66 Ballpoints 

43-Hall

15 Calculated the University, in N.J. 67 Circles of light
speed 44 Wings for angeli 68 Developed
16 Bright thought 11 Special sales 
45 A convertiplane, spot 
for short 

DOWN 20 Opposite NNW 46 Race-track 
1 Hijacks 
figures 2Wellaway! 

21 Kind of club 
22 Ohio city _ 49 Darwin disciple George-­3 Father 23 Call's opposite 4 Duroc, e.g. 
52 Utilize 5 Posts for harbor

24 Furry masked 
bandit? 53 Be appropriate housesfor27 Reparation 6 Grape product31 Avoid 54 Knocks 7 Small live coal 32 Margarine 56 Onager 
a Kind of soup 9 Six-pt. scores 10 --Stylites, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Syrian saint ~~........... 11 Gland: Comb. form .:::+=+.!+!-.J!:.-1 12 Former Russian 
hero 13 Bye-bye, in Soho 35 Gardner of 49 Brooklyn star of 56 Hebrew month 18 Chills and fever whodunits yore 57 Dimensions 19Aiibi 36 Equipment so Frequently 58 Fret 
..:..:...j-:=-+-;-+;:..t 23 Hop's big sister 37 Pindar products 51 Thread holder 60 Very short cheer 25 Agreement 53 Radar-screen 61 Religious gp.
39 Landed · 26 Kitchen bigwig property image 62 Embryonic -=-+=+=~~ 27 Lasso 55 A hairdo dinosaur
40 An inert gas
~=+--=+=4-=-l 28 Dash 

41 Evaluate 1MiG~#,~~®m~~~ 29 Former 45 Hits hard 
!!I Ottoman Get answers to any three clues 
officials 47 Pound parts 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
30 Pay, as a bill 48 Rus., Ukr., etc., 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
34 Fuss once 

Terifaki Steak LOndon Broil with Italian Marinara 
--B~fTaco · 
IT'S BACK! 
ATTENTION FRESHMEN 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! Interested in writing, photography, design, advertising, or graphics? 
Free 
-.

Stop by the our booth at 
Delivgy
271-111/

Activities Night to learn more. 
·­
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, September 7, 1993 
Butler provides first real test for women's soccer team 

~ By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
There is a first game, a home opener and season opener. The Notre Dame women's soccer game is facing all three of those against Butler tonight at 7:00 on Alumni field. 
Technically this is not the first game not the season opener for the Irish, but there 12-0 Iaugher against La Salle last week­end can't really be considered a game. And there season really begins tonight against the Bulldogs, as the begin a stretch of formidable opponents. 
Last season Notre Dame handled Butler 3-1 behind two goals from sophomore
.. 
Rosella Guerrero and one by senior Al­lison Lester. The Irish also managed to control the ball, outshooting the Bulldogs 21-7. 
Irish defender Andi Kurek did a solid job marking high-scoring Butler forward Chris Johnson and will be looked upon to do the same in tonight's game. 
"Andi always did a good job handling The Observer/John Bingham her," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Seniors Andrea Kurek and Alison Lester battle for the ball in practice. They will lead the Petrucell. "She did a great job last year 
Irish in tonight's home-opener against Butler. 
Reggie Brooks rolls as Redskins rout Cowboys 
By DAVE GOLDBERG Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Don't blame the Dallas Cowboys' 35-16 loss to the Washington Redskins Monday 
night on Emmitt Smith's hold­out. 
The whole Dallas team failed to show up. 
M a r k 


Rypien threw 
for three touchdowns, including 
one to Art Monk at the end of a 
99-yard, third-quarter drive as 
the 1991 Super Bowl champi­
ons beat the 1992 version. 
In fact, the preordained 
dynasty of the '90s showed 
clear signs of post-Super Bowl 
f malaise.
-
r 
I 
I The Cowboys lost the ball four times on fumbles, twice on punts, dropped a half dozen passes, never came close to sacking Rypien and were pe­nalized seven times for 63 yards. They also allowed the
I 
Redskins, who got 116 yards in
I 
20 carries from Brian Mitchell, to rush for 171 yards, more than Dallas allowed in any game last season. 
And they would have lost by more had Washington not made its share of mistakes in coach Richie Petitbon's first game as Joe Gibbs' successor. It got so bad that on a fourth­quarter punt, rookie Dave Thomas was waving all his Dallas teammates away from the bouncing ball. 
It wasn't just the absence of Smith, the league's leading rusher the past two years ­rookie Derrick Lassie, his 
NFL FOOTBALL 

Joe Montana gets wrist X-rays, 
• 
sending a scare through the Kansas City Chiefs. see page 16 
replacement, gained 75 yards in 16 carries and was guilty of only one gross misdemeanor, a dropped pass with a lot of run­ning room. 
It was a general run of mis­takes that began with a fum­bled snap on the first play of the game. And mistakes even accompanied success -an 80­yard TD pass from Troy Aikman to Alvin Harper that gave the Cowboys a 6-0 lead was followed by a missed extra point by Lin Elliott. 
Washington came right back after that to go 80 yards in 13 plays, the final one a 15-yard pass from Rypien to Ricky Sanders early in the second quarter. Rookie Reggie Brooks had 48 yards in eight carries on the drive. 
Then came two gift touch­downs six minutes apart on either side of halftime that gave the Skins a 21-6lead. 
One, a 1-yard run by Mitchell with 40 seconds left in the half, followed a recovery by Pat Eilers of a punt that bounced off James Washington as he was trying to get away from the ball at the Dallas 17. The sec­ond, a 1-yard TD pass from Rypien to Ron Middleton, was set up by a 36-yard pass in­terference call on Dallas' Larry Brown. 
The Cowboys finally got going then, taking just 2:13 to go 80 yards with Aikman hitting Harper from 32 yards out for the score. 
But they couldn't benefit from a horrible Washington mistake -Mitchell, thinking he was in the end zone, knelt on the 1­yard-line with the kickoff and the Redskins had to take over there. 
and the rest of the team will help her con­trolling the ball as much as possible. 
"Butler is a young energetic team which will challenge us. It will be good to face them because they will give us a gauge of where we are in some areas." 
The opener for the Irish will be the first use of the newly renovated Alumni field. The new feel of the field only adds to the excitement of the home opener. 
"The home opener is always exciting, but this year with the changes to the field, makes it even more significant," said Petrucelli. "Also we are expecting a big ground which adds to the enthusiasm of the team." 
Three freshman will start tonight's game, but Petrucelli considers his team's depth a strength which will be utilized. 
"Last season our lack of depth hurt us because we didn't have players to step in when our seniors got injured," he said. "But we got some younger players some experience and that is paying dividends this season because our bench is our strength. We have 13-14 players who deserve to be starters." 
see SOCCER I page 15 

Brown's crusade continues against Huskies 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team will open its home cam­paign tonight in the JACC at 
7:30 against the 24th-ranked Washington Huskies, hoping to improve its 3-1 record with a victory over ranked competi­tion. 
The Irish are coming off a second-place finish at the Big Four Classic, and hope to re­spond after a close defeat at the hands of No. 14 Kentucky. A victory over the Huskies would help coach Debbie Brown's crusade to lift the pro­gram into the national spot­light. 
"Against Washington we need to work on our side-out offense, scoring quickly after the serve. I was pleasantly surprised with our blocking over the weekend, but our offense could use some improvement," noted Brown. 
The starting unit proved very solid over the weekend, as the strong play of Jenny Birkner and Julie Harris cleared up any questions the Irish had. 
But Brown wanted to be sure to get some of the younger players experience so that a deeper bench could be active come tournament time. 
"We need to integrate our subs in a more defined pat­tern," added Brown. 
Middle-blocker Molly Stark and setter Janelle Karlan are expecting strong performances in the home opener of their se­nior season. 
Stark, the most experienced 
Inside SPORTS 

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
~ 
Washin.gton's pass rush giving ~flfl0~. Oh10 State headaches. fiJI~~~ seepage15 ~ 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior Christy Peters hopes to help the Irish defeat No. 24 Washington in tonight's home opener at the Joyce Center. 
net player on the squad, strug-already the career assist leader gled slightly at Kentucky, but is in Irish history. She will look to capable of breaking out with a add to that mark by setting for great performance. Karlan, both Stark and returning who has started in every one of starter Christy Peters, the her previous three season's, is team's leader in kills. 
BASEBALL 

Roger Clemens struggles with mysterious problems. see page 18 















