-------~--------------~~--­

Wednesday, December 1, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 58 TI-IF INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Private help
HIV infected alum speaks of awareness 
F 

By SARAH DORAN organization of Gay and 
sought for 
Assistant News Editor Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLNDSMC). If Notre Dame does not talk "At the time the organization 

AIDS drugs
was challenged enough by the never be able to deal effective­about gays and lesbians, it will 
number of people dealing with ly with HIV and AIDS, said homosexuality," he said. "It 
By CHRISTOPHER Michael Thurnherr, a 1989 was completely unequipped to CONNELL 
Notre Dame graduate who is deal with HIV and AIDS." Associated Press IIIV positive. But after the period of isola­Realizing that it is both un­tion and denial, Thurnherr WASHINGTON 
realistic and unnecessary to came to a realization about the The government will enlist expect the University to change future. experts from private industry, its morality, Thurnherr chal­"Having HIV made me begin academia, and activist groups lenged its stand as being unre­to understand about living in to help remove obstacles to 
alistic and dangerous. an uncertain world," he said. the discovery of new drugs to 
"If gay students are not pro­"It forced me to begin to build combat AIDS, Health and vided with social outlets and a more realistic sense of the Human Services Secretary support, people will not have future." Donna Shalala said Tuesday. relationships and will continue This heightened awareness Shalala said her new task to have unsafe sex," he said. of the future is helping him in force will bring "an unprece­
his current job as deputy direc­dented high-level collabora­
Thurnherr has a first hand tor of the Test Positive Aware tion among leaders in the experience of the lack of sup­field."
Network, a non-profit organi­
port, he states, the University zation in Chicago that educates "It is time to refocus and re­provides its homosexual stu­and provides support for peo­energize our best minds for a dents, as he discovered his ple infected with AIDS and concerted attack on this homosexuality and tested posi­their acquaintances. killer," she said at the 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

"In Test Positive Aware I'm
tive for HIV while a student. National Institutes of Health 
Junior Amy Borbely passes out red ribbons for World AIDS Day .
He also met his partner of six doing things which hopefully on the eve of World AIDS Day. 
years, who was a student in have resulted in improved lives "We have to lock arms to Moreau Seminary when for those who have AIDS in move forward." Thurnherr was an undergrad­Chicago," he said. "It's also The AIDS Action Council, a

NDand 
uate, at the same time. showed me a lot of respect for lobby that represents more Thurnherr also believes that people." than 1,000 AIDS service orga­he contracted the disease while nizations, praised the initia­at the University. HIV also helped him to un­tive as "an important step." "At the time I tested positive, derstand other aspects of his But an organizer from Act the University was not ready to life, including Christ. Up, an activist AIDS group, deal with AIDS or HIV at all," "HIV has helped me find dismissed it as "smoke and he said. "It was a year later Christ in a way that nobody First held in 1988, mirrors." before an HIV related event could," said Thurnhurr. AIDS day was proposed "Where's the Manhattan took place on campus, and that But, in spite of the awareness World Health Organi Project? ... Where's the ac­
was a Red Cross awareness he has developed since testing (WHO) in an effort to tion?" Act Up's Wayne Turner event." HIV positive, they are things he demanded of Shalala. 
en the glob<H aetiqns
After learning of his infection would easily do without. challenges'of the sp "We see this as an action 
during the second semester of "It creates an awareness AIDS pandemic, item," replied the health 
his sophomore year, within you that you otherwise literature from the Ant<>ri..:.,,h: secretary, who said the 
might miss, but I'd give away Clinton administration and
Thurnherr isolated himself Association for World Health, from the administration and that awareness to give away World AIDS day, commemQ-~HIV," said Thurnhurr.
even from the unrecognized rated in pver 180 countries tn-
see AIDS DAY/ page 4 see DRUGS/ page 4 



ND students celebrate diversity 
By COLIN O'NEIL 
News Writer 
As Catholics at Notre Dame and around the world celebrate Christmas, members of the Baha'I faith recognize the im­portance of this holiday but fo­cus on their ongoing efforts to promote world unity and peace, said several members of the University community who ad­here to this unique religion. 
A Persian nobleman founded the Baha'I faith in 1844; it cur­rently boasts six million mem­bers in 18,000 assemblies worldwide, including one group from Notre Dame, St. Mary's and South Bend. This congre­gation includes Larry Dwyer, a 1966 Notre Dame graduate who converted to the faith from Catholicism at the age of 32. 
The central tenets of the faith, Dwyer said.. include the investigation of truth, equality of sexes and races, universal education, an auxiliary lan­guage and world peace. 
"Although today we accept these concepts as common­place," said Jaleh Dashti­Gibson, another panelist and graduate student in govern­ment, "In 1844 [when the reli­gion was founded] they consti­tuted a radical call. I find it an interesting evolution that these ideas have become mainstream as our faith grew." 
She emphasized another Baha'I belief, that religion and science agree. "Religion with­out science is superstition and science without religion is pure materialism; there is a mutual need," she said. 
Central to the faith is the con­cept of unity. Its followers, said Tris Dashti-Gibson, a graduate student in the Masters in Peace Studies program, promulgate a theology of the Three Onenesses: one God, who has spawned similar worldwide re­ligions which share a single ori­gin, and one mankind which must constantly strive for peace and equality. 
According to Helena 
Rozlivkova, another graduate 
student in the Peace Studies 
program, the religion roots it­
self in nineteenth century Iran, 
where a Persian nobleman 
known as Baha'u'llah called for 
the elimination of all prejudice 
and the unification of humanity 
under a common faith. This 
prophet proclaimed that all re­
ligions share a common deity 
and that Christ, Mohammed, 
and other religious illuminaries 
are manifestations· of an om­
nipotent, unknowable God. 
Believers deny the predomiance of' any one religion; they wor­ship God and recognize Bahah'u'llah as a manifestation of His brilliance, said Rozlivkova. 
"People today want to return to spirituality without the bur­den of organized religion," Dwyer explained. He con­cluded that the Baha'f faith, which has neither structured clergy nor rigid services, offers a solution to this popular search for meaning. 
Dwrer said that the faith for­bids alcohol and drugs and en­courages obedience to the gov­ernment. "We don't repair the ills of the current world order, but rather help build a new civilization of unity. " Although they vote in local and national elections, Baha'Is disdain parti­san politics as a cause of bitter rancor and disharmony. 
The panel members distanced 
their faith from extremist sects 
and currently popular New Age 
religions. "We're not some cult 
in the Texas desert or some­
thing" said Dywer. 
When asked about plans for 
the international language that 
Baha'fs tout as key to increas­
ing international cooperation 
and harmony, Dwyer said, "I 
hope it's English." 
Kmiec: Legislation restores rights of religious freedom 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
The Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 signed into law Nov. 16 by President Clinton restored the true mean­ing of the First Amendment, according to Notre Dame law professor Douglas Kmiec. 
The act was passed by Congress in response to the 1990 Supreme Court ruling in the Employment Decision vs. Smith case, Kmiec said. 
"Many people thought it was wrongly decided, especially be­cause the effect of the decision was to allow government to greatly restrict religious free­dom," he said. 
The decision weakened the interpretation of the First Amendment's "free exercise" clause, according to Kmiec. 
"In particular, the opinion held that government could prohibit activities which had religious significance so long as they didn't intend to specifically penalize religion, but that left many religious practices unpro­tected," he said. 
A state law regulating archi­tecture could be used to pre­vent a church from making necessary structural changes to correspond with their religious liturgy, he said. 
"The new act requires that any time a government action has the effect of burdening re­ligion the government must have a compelling justification, and that burden must be greater than necessary," he said. 
There is a hidden significance of the enacted law, Kmiec said. 
"Virtually every state in the union largely prohibits the use of public funds in religious schools. The hidden signifi­cance of this act is that it may provide parents and students in those religious schools a stronger basis to challenge that religiously discriminating de­nial of funding," he said. 
The Supreme Court's decision this past summer made public funds generally available to the public, he said. 
"So long as public funds are generally made available on an even-handed basis, the consti­tution does not require that parents and students in reli­gious schools be excluded," Kmiec said. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, December 1, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 
South Bend 
hates us? 


Paranoia? 
You've seen the angry faces in the checkout line. You've felt shoulders thrown into you at the mall. You found that gob of plas­tic explosives to the bottom of your car. 

You know they hate you. They want you to leave Rolando de Aguiartheir town. Now. 
Viewoim Editor 
Or do they? 

Notre Dame students are paranoid toward many people, including pollsters, columnists and stu­dents at state schools. 
But the one type that makes every student curl up, cover his or her important body parts and say Hail Marys aloud is ubiquitous 'round these parts: the Michiana resident. 
Notre Dame bumper stickers insulate many o the older cars in St. Joseph county. South Bend news broadcasts are often Notre Dame sport­sathons. Area shopkeepers will practically do touchdown push-ups to make Notre Dame kids happy. But we're still sure they hate us. 
We're sure that they'd rather have their city comfortable and quiet, without the bright lights of Notre Dame. A football game is an enormous roadblock on the way to Grape Road, and Rudy is just as annoying to them as he is to us. 
We're sure that they are jealous because we're students at a gold-domed private univer­sity in the Hust Belt. We're sure that poor South Bend thinks that Notre Dame is a school for rich kids. 
We wish they thought that way. 
Notre Dame students want to feel superior, and the easiest route is by pretending that South Bend has an inferiority complex. But the South Bend community has no reason to feel inferior to, jealous of or hateful toward Notre Dame. This area has too much going for it. 
Though Northern Indiana went through some tough times during the last quarter century or so, South Bend is on the rebound. Industry is moving back to the area. Stores are opening everywhere. The area's population continues to grow. Michiana is making a comeback. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are parts of that comeback. The arrival of Lou Holtz and the rebirth of a winning tradition in Notre Dame's football program helped put South Bend back on the national map. Both institutions' solid showings in U.S. News and World Heport rank­ings remind the public that we all are ND, and we -are more than a football powerhouse. 
The residents of Michiana don't hate Notre Dame students for any of that. South Bend is proud of Notre Dame. 
So the next time you're in the check-out line at Aldi and you see someone giving you that nasty look, think about why she might be mad. Don't be self-important and wish she were thinking "Damn all these rich Notre Dame kids." She was probably thinking about the dis­gusting subject of the latest Donahue episode. 
The next time some brawny man 
in a ratty t­shirt that says "The Fridge" bumps into you at the U.P. Mall and refuses to say he's sorry, don't assume that it was your ND hat that ticked him off. lie was miffed because Ricky Watters high-stepped into the end zone to beat the Bears. 
And the next time you find plastic explosives stuck to the bottom of your new, white Grand Cherokee, don't start thinking that the residents of South Bend hate Notre Dame students. 
They thought it was Hudy's car. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Suzy Fry Production Nancy Dunn Bridgette Farrell Sports Kathie Young Rian Aikey Accent Viewpoint Gerrie Hamilton Jason Thomas Graphics Lab Tech Chris Wei!up Dave Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except Juring exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Prc:ss. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Research shows consumer confidence increase in November 
NEW YORK strongly suggests that better times may 
Consumer optimism about the econo-well be on the way," said Fabian 
my and the job market improved Linden, executive director of The 
sharply in November following an unex-Conference Board consumer research 
pectedly sour reading the month before, center, which conducts the survey. The 
a widely followed survey said Tuesday. From a monthly survey of optimistic readings were seen across 
Results of The Conference Board's con-5,000 U.S. households the country, with the Pacific and New 
sumer confitlence survey were wei-w .. ex England regions reporting the sharpest
.n""'d corned by a range of economists, but all 1 gains. Economists were surprised by warned against reading too much into a the gain, but noted it followed an unex­one-month improvement. The 1985 =100 pectedly large decline in the October Conference Board, a New York research survey, when the index lost 3.3 points, group that tracks sentiment through a so according to revised figures. Many monthly poll, said its consumer confi-70 economists had forecast a modest dence index registered an unexpectedly advance in consumer confidence based

ij': . 
strong gain of 11 points to 71.2, up from 60 -• •• ,, ....t....l1 -t-H,',:···· on improved retail sales and early 
50 1 11
a revised 60.5 in October. Some econo-_ . . reports of a good start for the mists expected only a 1 point gain. 1 : • I i i ; i Christmas shopping season. Linden said Such a rise "has occurred only rarely in 40 ..~ .. ' •· I ·t-·+··....i......j.. r-+· + a survey' conducted earlier this year the 25-year history of this survey pro-. I • 1 ' ' ' : i ; found considerable pent-up demand by 
E~~~;;~,~~E~:~~l:;~;~.~~.!;~ : ~._ ....,i_-·..t·-r·i·:·:·:.1.. :1___'... .fi~~---·· ::~_... i ~~~~~!~~"~~:·v3~y~~ft£~f;~:h!~~ 
was suffering due to speculation that 10 decline in the number of people who 
1

the unemployment rate would fall and · 1 described business conditions as "bad." inflation would rise next year. Reaction O N D J. F M A M J J A S 0 N The proportiOn. of peopIe who hold th'IS was muted in the stock market. The ~ negative view is at the lowest level in index, calculated on a 1985 base of 100, about three years. In addition, the is based on responses to questionnaires Source: The Conference Board AP report showed an increasing number of sent to 5,000 U.S. households, with questions ranging consumers who believe jobs are plentiful. Despite the from home-buying plans to local job conditions. It is con-turnaround in consumer sentiment, Linden said the sidered a useful barometer of consumer spending, which index still is at a level generally associated with a lack­accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. luster economy. "The impressive magnitude of the November gain 
No criminal probe in baby swap case Anti-theft measures labeled as rascist 
TAMPA, Fla. MABLETON, Ga. 
Authorities said today they have no plans to pursue a A drug store chain is under fire for allegedly putting criminal investigation based on a nursing aide's claim anti-theft tags on more black-oriented products than that Kimberly Mays was purposely swapped with another ones used by whites. Company officials denied the claim. newborn nearly 15 years ago. Hardee County Sheriffs "This is not a race issue. This is a shoplifting issue," said investigators in rural Wauchula said there is no evidence Bobby Little, vice president of store operations for Big B to back a statement last week by former nurse's aide Inc., which operates 350 stores in the Southeast, includ­Patsy Webb, who had testified ,three times in the past she ing 18 Drugs for Less. "We're looking for items that we knew nothing of the swap. "We have to have more to go know are being pilfered in stores," he said Tuesday. on than that," said sheriffs Maj. Edward Hendrix. He "Lots of these are teen-age related more than anything added that even if there were a probe, the statute of limi­else." The Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported tations has likely run out on any possible crime that may Tuesday that at least two Drugs for Less in the Atlanta have been committed. Webb, who worked at Hardee area placed security tags on products aimed at blacks, Memorial Hospital in Wauchula in 1978, said last week a while similar products for whites had no security devices. doctor there gave the order to switch the couples' babies, Bruce Roberts, assistant general counsel for the exchanging Kimberly for the Mays' ailing baby. She said Southeast region of the National Association for the she refused, but when she came in the next day, she Advancement of Colored People, was among critics who found the two babies had been switched. She said she is said the tagging scheme implied blacks were more likely speaking out now because she is dying from emphysema. than whites to shoplift. 
AMA argues for women's rights to implants Woman shot by husband while hunting 
WASHINGTON CONNELLSVILLE, Pa. 
The American Medical Association renewed its quarrel A man said he accidentally shot his wife to death as the with the government over silicone breast implants two hunted deer in southwestern Pennsylvania. Alvin Tuesday and said women ought to be able to get them for Vance Jr. of Mount Pleasant said his gun fired unexpect­cosmetic purposes once informed of the risks. The doc­edly Monday, striking his 39-year-old wife, Cathy Louise tors' organization said that notwithstanding the alarms Vance, in the chest. "We were walking and when I raised about implants in the past two years, there is no turned, the gun went off for some unknown reason," he convincing evidence that they cause disease. The Journal said. "I don't know what happened, the gun just went of the American Medical Association, in Wednesday's edi­off." The Pennsylvania Game Commission was investi­tion, published a report by the AMA's Council of Scientific gating the shooting on the first day of the state's deer Advisers on breast implants and a stinging retort from season. No charges were filed. Larry Ileade, law FDA Commissioner David A. Kessler. Kessler said the enforcement supervisor for the commission's southwest AMA faulted others for the controversy, but overlooked regional office, said Vance and his wife were with several "the serious failings of physicians" who used the silicone other people when a deer ran across a field and the gun implants for 30 years without giving women adequate went off. information about their risks. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 1. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
...........-..a....&..~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather,lnc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V~a Assocullsd Pf888 

H  L  Denver  51  30  Philadelphia  46  32  
Honolulu  83  70  Rome  63  50  
Atlanta  63  39  London  52  37  San Francisco  63  49  
Boston  44  35  Los Angeles 72  56  Seattle  45  41  
Chicago  35  25  Minneapolis 29  10  Seoul  39  34  
Columbus 39  25  New Orleans71  37  Toronto  37  24  
Dallas  69  40  New York  48  36  Washington, D.C. 47  33 

VIS Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993Accu-Weather,lnc. 
Wednesday, December 1, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Parietal



Forum clarifies Clinton's health care plan 
By JASON CONTE scription of Clinton's plan, 
survey to be 
News Writer breaking it down into five ma­jor components. While the lobbying debate "The first component is the continues in Washington and National Health Board. It will 

disregarded 
across the nation, Dr. Vincent have seven members appointed Friedewald of Houston and by the President and will be 
By JOSLIN WARREN Professor David Betson, direc­very powerful," said 
News Writer 
tor of the 
Friedewald. "The Board will be Hesburgh responsible for setting national Due to the non-scientific for­standards and overseeing the
Program in mat of the recent parietal sur­
entire plan. If states do not run
Public Service vey. results will not be used in 
it correctly, it will have the
at Notre determining if parietal hours 
D a m e , power to take aspects of the will be changed, according to explained the plan under its own controL" 
Walsh co-President KaraState governments are the
basic struc­Christopherson. 
ture and ram­second component of the plan. ifications of "States will be responsible for I I r:l !IQ;i§\i!1] =~i fJ6I1il~[~ II p r e s i d e n t David Betson among other things ensuring all 
Clinton's health care program their citizens have access to "The parietal survey wasn't in a forum last night. health care, establishing al­scientific, so it will be modified 
The forum,. held in the base­liances, certifying health plans, by the social science depart­ment of Keenan, was presented and regulating the financial as­ment and redistributed to all 
to a room full of mostly pre­pectS of the plan," he said. the dorms," she said. med students concerned with Regional health alliances, the University Food Services isthird component, will be lo­
the future of the health care still looking into doing business 
system. cated in certain areas of the with outside vendors, accord­Friedewald gave a brief de-country. "It will ensure that all ing to Christopherson.
citizens in the area have insur­tals and doctors that compete comfortable with this part of 
"They have hired outside 
ance and will represent the in­for the business of the various the plan. 
food consultants to evaluate 
terests of consumers as it ne­alliances. They will sit down "Quality management is a 
the need for outside vendors.
gotiates with different health and negotiate various prices for nice idea on paper, but it will 
They'll talk to students and
plans competing for the busi­the different services they per­be quite a task to discern what 
watch the traffic patterns in 
ness of those under the al­form for the members of a cer­needs to be done by simply us­
LaFortune at the end of the
liance," Friedewald explained. tain alliances," said ing statistics." 
semester or in early January," 
According to the plan, corpo­Friedewald, "This will occur through the 
said Christopherson. 
rate alliances will negotiate for "Other minor aspects of the various alliances and health 
Lyons Hall will be going
their employees with different plan include a mandate that 50 plans competing in price and 
around to all the dorms to col­
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 

health plans; thus, citizens will percent of all physicians are quality. This plan is not to put 
lect money to fund a scholar­
NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
either be covered under a re­trained to be primary care doc­the hammer down on doctors 
~---F•L•O•R•I•D•A ----l ship for Mara Fox, said Lyons
gional or corporate alliance for tors, eliminating many spe­only. It wants patients held ac­
Hall co-President Angie
DA YTONA BEACH 

their health care. cialists and a system for quality countable as well. It wants ev­
Gutermuth.
PANAMA CITY 8EACH 

The final component is the management and improvement eryone no matter how poor 
The recent reinstatement of
ORLANDO!WAL T DISNEY WORLD 
health plans. "These health of the plan using statistics," he 
f----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O ----1 
said.
***************************** see FORUM I page 5 see HPC I page 4 VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
STEAMBOAT 
* 
BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
i( 

~---N•E•V•A•D•A-----1 ... * 
• * ... ~ " Maple lane ** * * Capitalism breaks new ground 
* 
LAS VEGAS 

* * Barber S~op * * 
S•O•U•T•H C•A•R•O•L•I•N•A 

* * By ROBERT CAHILL the Budapest University of exists both an informal and for­
i( 1ervinq * 
HitTON HEAD ISLAND 

* * News Writer Economics. mal economy as well as a first
* l~e Noln Dame Communilq *
* * Sik's papers, entitled "From and second economy; all of
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW 
* fo,. ove,. 32yeors *
* * The emergence of capitalism the Second to the Informal which in turn effect state regu­
CALL TOLL FRF.E FOR FULL 

* *
* 2112 South BenJ Avl"nue * Economy" and "Network lations and have much market* (aci'DU (,-,om Ike n~ Marlin',) * * * in post-communist nations was
DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
* * the focus of yesterday's discus­Capital in Capitalist, influence," said Sik. 
* CLOSED lH.JRSDAYS *
1• BOO •SUNCHASE 
* * sion of two papers written by Communist, and Post­
* * 
Communist Societies," focus "Prior to the round table dis­


primarily upon the sociological concepts associated with eco­nomic change. 
Sik gained first hand experi­ence of living under a commu­nist economic system during his early life in Hungary. 
"I feel very privileged for hav­ing had the opportunity to live under a communist economic structure," he said. 
"In a capitalist system there cussion I was not particularly familiar with the formal-infor­mal economic theories that were discussed and debated," said Fisher resident Ted Pagano, "but I am now more aware of the diverse economic world around me." 
The discussion was spon­sored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
(OR ANYONE) •• 
Are you interested in health issues and concern? 
JOIN THE STUDENT HEALTH CoUNCIL 
lJ!fl (£ (£ afJ lJiJ ~ 
Wednesday, December 1st 6:30p.m. Student Government Office 
For any questions contact Michelle at xl-7668. 


0RIfNTAT I0 N 

mmnml
.:m. 
lmmml
..,

f'b:N.....o-r., IN 
ll'9·ZJ1~1J.U 
l!9·1JII•nt9 
U......y<i 
""'~"'"" 


------~--~----~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December I, 1993 



AIDS day 
continued from page 1 

Students With AIDS Training (SWAT) have come together to organize a red ribbon drive, which has given out over 2,000 red ribbons in the past two days in order to increase AIDS awareness on campus, she said. The groups have also col­lected between $60-70 dollars for area AIDS ministries. 
The ribbons, which are de­signed to show solidarity in the fight against the disease, are also being given out today in both dining halls and LaFortune. 
"So far the drive has been very successful in raising awareness," said Caruso. "I think we are making progress." 
In past years. World AIDS day has been quietly marked on the campuses by a prayer service, mass and rosary saying. This is the first time that the red rib­bons have been distributed or that a speaker has been fea­tured. 
Drugs 
continued from page 1 

Congress raised the AIDS research budget this year by 21 percent to $1.3 billion. 
The HHS secretary was joined by the heads of the Public Health Service, the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration as well as Kristine Gebbie, the White House national AIDS policy co­ordinator, and Dr. P. Roy Vagelos, the chairman of Merck Inc., the world's largest pharmaceutical company. 
"Merely creating a new com­mittee doesn't make a miracle happen...." said Gebbie. But she added that this collabo­ration "really increases our confidence that we will ... stop this epidemic." 
Shalala named her top health deputy, Dr. Philip R. Lee, the head of the Public Health Service, to chair the National Task Force on AIDS Drug Development. She will appoint another 14 members later. 
The task force's mission is "to identify and remove any barriers or obstacles to devel­oping effective treatment," Shalala said. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
announces 

AUDITIONS 
for 

Wednesday, December 1st & Thursday, December 2nd 6:00p.m. Washington Hall 
Guest artist, Kym Moore, wiU be directing this classic American drama about an African,American family in 1950s Chicago. This year marks the thirty,fifth anniver, sary of Lorraine Hansberry's' award winning play. 
For more information please call631-5957 or 631-5956. 

Health plan 
continued from page 3 

penses not covered by insur­ance, vision care (exams. lens­es, frames, contact lenses). hearing care (exams and hear­ing aids), speech therapy, ortho­donture, durable medical equip­ment or any health care service which qualifies as an IRS med­ical deduction, with the excep­tion of mileage and parking. 
Eligible expenses for the Dependent Care Reimbursement Fund include: child and dependent care facili­ties, including day care, depen­dent care in your home or someone else's home, adult day care and housekeeping services in your home. 
The advantage of these new funds is that the money is put into the account before state, federal and social security taxes are taken out. The end result is more money for the employee, said Kelly-Walsh. 
A possible disadvantage to the program, according to the Saint Mary's Medical Reimbursement Plan for 1994, states that IRS regulations require that money directed into these accounts each year must be used for expenses incurred during that year. If any money remains in an account at the end of the year, it will be forfeited. 
"If you can approximate how much should be set aside in an account, the funds will be a great benefit," said Marilyn Rajski, director of building ser­vices. "However, guessing dollar figures may cause a loss of money. This makes me un­comfortable, but I am aware of the risk." 
"Because of this risk factor I am currently uncertain if I will take advantage of these funds. I don't want to commit to this too hastily so I will think carefully and ask questions. The Saint Mary's personnel office is excel­lent in educating employees," said Rajski. 
ex­
Chris 
the 
HPC 
continued from page 3 

Weekend Wheels been tremely successful, according to HPC co-Chairperson Canzoniero. 
"Over the Florida State and Boston College weekends, ap­proximately 200 people a night took advantage of service, "said Canzoniero. 
"It is important that people become more fiscally knowl­edgeable and understand money management. These new funds may aid in doing so," said Mary Elizabeth De Pauw, direc­tor of career counseling and development. 
"1 would like to see more dis­cussion on these funds and more educational opportuni­ties," said De Pauw. "Money management is important in this time of limited resources and we should take advantage of any opportunity. It is very important that employers pro­vide such opportunities and I am grateful that Saint Mary's does." 
The new funds may in addi­tion lead to a reduction in social security benefits, but only if an employee's income drops below the Social Security Wage Base. According to Kelly-Walsh, for most employees the reduction in social security benefits will be insignificant in comparison to the value of paying less in expenses now. 
All regular full-time and part­time employees are eligible to enroll with the funds in the first month following 30 days of employment. The initial deduc­tion occurs on the first pay­check of the IRS calendar year. 
However, once an employee signs up for the funds, the amount of money directed into the account cannot be changed outside of the enrollment time and participation can not stop unless a qualified life status change occurs, said the Saint Mary's Reimbursement Plan for 1994. As defined by the IRS, a life status change includes: birth or adoption of a child. death of an immediate family member, marriage. divorce or change in a spouse's employ­ment which affects benefits. 
"These types of reimburse­ment funds are not unique to Saint Mary's College," Kelly­Walsh said. "Several other businesses and colleges use similar systems. Saint Mary's employees asked for this plan to help them to save money." 

Derailed Amtrak train injures 40 in Florida 

By IKE FLORES 
Associated Press 
INTERCESSION CITY, Fla. 
An Amtrak passenger train smashed into a stalled tractor­trailer Tuesday as frantic state troopers tried to flag it down. About 70 people were injured. 
The oversized truck carrying a 150-ton generator got stuck at a train crossing several min­utes before the collision, said Chris Gent, a spokesman for the Kissimmee Utility Authority, which owns the generator. 
A train dispatcher was noti­fied about the stalled truck and told utility officials that the train was not due at the cross­ing until 1 p.m., said Gent, who witnessed the accident. 
CSX Transportation, which owns the track, says it didn't receive any phone call prior to the accident. 
The train struck at 12:45 
p.m.. Amtrak spokeswoman Sue Martin said. 
"The signal crossing arm came down on top of the cab. I didn't know what was happen­ing. Then I saw the train," Gent said. "Then it hit ... I heard the scraping and the screeching of the steel all along the track." 
Four of the eight cars on the Tampa-to-New York Silver Meteor derailed. The first sleeping car overturned when it jumped the tracks. Rescue 

Heard the Latest Rumor? 
The Commons IS• OPEN 

Open Daily from 4 p.m ... 3.a.m. 
workers had to pry off some windows to rescue trapped pas­sengers. 
CSX Donna Hohrer said no record was found of a phone call before the accident advis­ing them of a problem at the crossing. 
The first call the operation center in Jacksonville received came from police at 12:46 p.m., notifying CSX of the accident, she said. CSX then notified Amtrak. 
About 70 people were in­jured, but many only needed minor treatment at the scene, state police Lt. Chuck Williams said. 
The train consisted of an en­gine, mail car, baggage car, sleeping car. lounge car and four coaches. It was carrying 103 passengers and about eight crew members, Amtrak spokesman Howard Robertson said. 



Wednesday, December l, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 





Relationships based on cycle 
Best method: overcome divisive polarities 
By W. HUDSON GILES NewsWrirer 
In the growth process of life there is a continuous conflict over making choices between the polarities of oneness and separateness, said Brother James Greteman, in his lecture last night. The lecture, held at Holy Cross College, focused on the key components of building a strong foundation for a rela­tionship or marriage. 
"If you are thinking of mar­riage, it's sort of like a process -the honeymoon period. the power struggle, stability, com­mitment and co-creation. And the process will grow," he stat­ed. 
He said that a faulty marriage (or a relationship) can be iden­tified with the seasons of the year. Spring is the time of dis­covery and joy with summer being a kind of leveling off peri­od. Fall is a time of realization and an absence of the original feelings, and winter being the waning of color or love in that particular relationship. He said that if you cling to a person too 

Forum 
continued from page 3 
eryone no matter how poor they are to pay something," he said. 
Friedewald also examined the doctor's perspective of the plan. 
much, it is hazardous and the relationship will never work. 
Outside interference plays a large role in the destruction of a marriage, said Greteman. The husband will become preoccu­pied with work and feel an overwhelming need to excel financially and the wife will become overburdened with car­ing for the children and focus all her love on them simply because they are easy to love. "There will always be time to disagree," he stated. 
Greteman introduced Jungian analysis which basically said that males are capable of clas­sical female characteristics such as tenderness and caring, and in the same respect women can be strong and enduring, classical male traits. 
His theory of synchronicity, or "attraction of opposites," deter­mined that such factors play an immense role in the homeosta­sis of a marriage. "You learn to negotiate, and when to let go," he continued. 
He said that 99.9 percent of the divorces he has witnessed were because of a misinterpre­
"All doctors can agree that ideal health coverage would in­clude universal coverage, con­trol costs, and absolute free­dom of choice in patients of doctors and doctors of treat­ments," he said. "However, these characteristics are in op­position with one another. Over time, freedom of choice has won out and costs have tation of each others values. He said communication should reinforce the following ele­ments: letting the person know that you are on their side, being aware of their positive qualities and trying to bring those quali­ties out as much as possible. 
He also stated that people who begin a relationship with sex and try to communicate later will never be able to have a healthy marriage. He specu­lated that in this type of rela­tionship, there is no spirituality and therefore, no foundation. "If we can handle ourselves, we can handle God." 
"You have to take care of yourself," he said, " If you are capable of this, you stand a chance in a relationship." 
Greteman is an author, family therapist and certified hyp­notherapist. His most recent book, "Creating a Marriage," has just debuted and is expect­ed to be quite influential. He is a national speaker on mar­riage, divorce, feelings and sex­uality and has given workshops at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
steadily risen." 
"The soaring cost today are a result of high-tech medicine and the generous insurance with no accountability," Friedewald suggested. "There are only two ways of limiting spending, either provide less care or pay less to those provid­ing it. The whole truth is not being told about the plan. 

1994-95 RA APPLICATIONS 
Are No"v Available Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 
Through Friday, January 14, 1994 



FAST ITALIAN THAT 
NEVER FAILS YOU. 
You deserve abreak. Double Slice Pizza from just $1.29. 12 menu items for under $3. 
And unlimited breadsticks with every dine-in entree 

Real Italian. Real Fast 
317 W. McKinlev. Mishawaka/255-2551/52770 U.S. Rt. 33N/277-4008 

The Observer/Eric Ruelhling
Dreaded DART 

Sophomore Regan Connell uses the "friendlier" computer version of DART to register for the Spring semester. 

Saint Mary's prepares for holiday season, masses 
By PAITI CARSON NewsWrirer 

The Saint Mary's College campus will be active in prepa­ration for the upcoming holi­days, said Campus Ministry Director Melissa Whelan at last night's Board of Governance meeting. 
I:!It;! jllllllijlllj=jh1f!WH. 
Campus Ministry is holding a reconciliation service on Monday at 7 p.m. Advent prayer services are also being held on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 8-8:20 a.m. in the Regina Hall chapel, accord­ing to Whelan. 
"Each residence hall will offer a mass on Dec. 7. These services will fill the obligation of the Dec. 8 holy day, the Immaculate Conception," said 
Whelan. In other business: 

•Today 
is World AIDS Day. Commemorative buttons are being sold around campus for $1 plus donations. 

•A 
1980 Saint Mary's alum­nae will be speaking about life after Saint Mary's on Thursday evening in Stapleton lounge. See the flyers in the dining hall for more information. 

•AIDS 
Ministry/AIDS Assist needs volunteers to help in its community service endeavors this weekend. Members will be gift wrapping at University Park mall. Contact Melissa Whelan for more information. 

•The 
NASCU (National Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities) Regional will be held on campus Saturday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Anyone interested should contact Ann Grant for further details. 



-~ ------~-----------------------------------­
page6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 1, 1993 


U.S. increases hutnanitarian aid 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 

HOME 
The Clinton administration promised an additional $150 million in winter aid to Bosnia's hungry and homeless civilians Tuesday while declaring the sit­uation in the former Yugoslav republic significantly improved. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher announced the aid boost at a 53-nation European security conference and said the United States was ready to double its daily relief flights to Sarajevo, the capital of the war-torn country, to 10. He said the United States also was prepared to begin flights to Tuzla in eastern Bosnia but Bosnian Serbs and Croats had made that impossible by keep­ing the airport closed. 
"This winter the snows have come early to Bosnia and the humanitarian crisis has deep-

Bloodiest battles in Gaza since PLO-Israeli accord 
By KARIN LAUB 
Associated Press 

OCCUPIED GAZA STRIP 
In the bloodiest day of street battles since the Israel-PLO ac­cord was signed. Palestinians hurled rocks and burned tires Tuesday to protest the army hunt for PLO gunmen and the lack or progress in peace talks. 
Soldiers responded with gun­lire, killing one Palestinian and wounding 65. 
Troops killed a 16-year old boy during clashes near an army encampment in Gaza City's Sheik Hadwan neighbor­hood, Arab witnesses said. Israel radio said the youth was shot by mistake. 
Hundreds or makeshift barri­ers blocked roads to enforce a three-day general strike called by the Palestine Liberation Organization, with protesters vowing armed rebellion in place of peacemaking. Clouds of smoke from burning rubber rose over the Gaza Strip. 

The violence reflected Palestinian frustration over the lack of change since the accord was signed Sept. 13. and threatened to complicate nego­tiations on the handover of Gaza and Jericho on the West Bank, due to start Dec. 13. 
"Many of the people who were out in the streets today. demonstrating, are the same people who just a few weeks ago were dancing in the streets in joy over the agreement," said Fawaz Abu Sitte, a Gaza City academic. 
But later Tuesday, indications emerged that the clashes were abating, and that both sides remained committed to a nego-


FOOTBALL BANOUET FRIDAY. DEC.3 
\V,L\ITER ,1\ND \\IAITRESSES PLi\TE UP ,L\ND BREAI\DO\\IN ,1\PPLY Ci\TERING E~1PLOY~1ENT OFFICE Lo\,·'er· 1e\~el-Sout..h DininQ Hall 10-4P~1 ~1on -Fr·i 


Maj. Gen. Matan Vilnai, the Gaza Strip military comman­der, met with five PLO leaders in Gaza to discuss a cease-fire, and a top aide to Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin arrived in Tunis for talks with PLO chief Yasser Arafat. 
In Gaza. the PLO leaders de­manded that the army stop shooting Palestinians, stop hunting members of the Fatah . Hawks, release jailed Hawks and reduce its presence in Gaza. The Hawks are the mili­tary wing of Arafat's Fatah fac­tion. 
"We hope the bloodshed will be stopped. We have agreed on practical steps to solve the sit­uation," PLO leader Sufi an Abu Zaydeh said after the meeting, without elaborating. 


ened," Christopher said. 
However, he did not threaten a NATO military assault against the Serbs who hold Sarajevo in a hammerlock and periodically block delivery of food. medicine and shelter in other areas. 
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, largely at U.S. urging, approved a resolution last summer threatening to implement a contingency plan to bomb Serb artillery sites if the Serbs did not relent. 
f!i#· ;& 

H~)"DUSAN'STOJANOVIC ~~P~ 

------... GENEVA ,. 
osman peace talks quickly hit an impasse Tuesday, and Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment accused mediators of siding with the Serbs and warned that the negotiations could collapse. 
u;'aders ofBosnia's Serb and Croat factions blamed Muslims for the deadlock in the first talks since September. when the government rejected a plan to divide Bosnia intp three ethnic states. 
A new plan proposed by the European Community is the latest effort to try to halt a war that has killed more than 200,000 people and made more than 2 million homeless in the 19 months since Bosnia seceded from Yugoslavia. 

NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERALUNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPliCATIONs FoR SPRING SEMESTER '93-'94 & '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 




SENIORS 
HAVE YOU EVER THOUGHT ABOUT PRIESTHOOD AND THE RELIGIOUS LIFE? 
Consider 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR 
A one year program for college graduates who seek to explore an interest in priesthood and religious life in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
Come to an information session on: 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1993 7 P.M. FLANNER HALL CHAPEL 
Notre Dame graduates and others who are Holy Cross Candidates this year will share their reflections and experience. 
Plus: information about applications, scholarship assistance, etc. 
Vocation Office 

Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. 
631-6385 

Wednesday, December 1, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Clinton signs gun control, anti-violence Brady Bill 
By TERENCE HUNT marked the end of a nearly Clinton has been speaking Associared Press seven-year battle by the Bradys with increasing passion about and gun-control advocates with violence and crime in recent WASHINGTON the National Rifle Association weeks. Aides say the subject As James Brady turned in his and its congressional support­deeply troubles him and he will 
wheelchair to watch, President ers. Every major law enforce­devote a lot of attention to it Clinton signed into law the most ment organization had en­during December. sweeping dorsed the bill. A major anti-crime bill, to put handgun con­It was the first major gun bill 100,000 more police on the trol bill in a since 1968 when Congress -in streets and ban several assault­quarter cen­
the aftermath of the assassi­style weapons, is expected to be 
··.-.·.·...':··.-.'..,. ·. 
tury Tuesday. nations of Robert Kennedy and high on the agenda for Clinton "Americans "'· • Martin Luther King Jr. -and Congress next year. It's a are fmally fed banned mail-order purchases of politically popular issue, since up with vio­rifles, shotguns, handguns and polls show that violence-weary lence," the ammunition and curbed out-of­Americans say crime is their president state buying of those firearms. top fear. 
Clinton said the Brady bill fi­Trying to debunk a central
declared. James Brady 
Cheers and nally passed "because grass­argument against gun control, applause erupted in the East roots America changed its mind Clinton said that opponents Room as Clinton signed the and demanded that this have successfully portrayed gun 
long-fought bill before an audi­Congress not leave here without restrictions as an impingement ence of law enforcement offi­doing something about this. on the American culture of cials, mayors, governors, mem­And all the rest of us, even Jim hunting and fishing. 
bers of Congress, and families and Sarah, did was to somehow "We have taken this impor­who have lost relatives to gun light that spark that swept tant part of the life of millions violence. across the people of this coun­of Americans and turned it into 
The new law will require a try and proved once again that an instrument of maintaining five-day waiting period and democracy can work." madness," the president said. background check on handgun "America won this battle," "It is crazy," Clinton said, 
buyers when it takes effect in the president said. "Americans slapping the lectern to empha­90 days. It was named for are finally fed up with violence size his point. "Would I let any­Brady, the White House press that cuts down another citizen body change that life in secretary who was gravely with gunfire every 20 minutes." America? Not on your life. Has wounded and left disabled in However, Richard Gardiner, that got anything to do with the the 1981 assassination attempt the NRA's legislative counsel, Brady bill or assault weapons against then-President Reagan. said in a telephone interview, or whether the police have to 
Reading slowly from notes as "The bill will not have the go out on the street confronting 
his wife, Sarah, held a micro­slightest impact on violent teen-agers who are better 
phone for him, Brady called the crime." He said that less than 1 arm.~d than they are? Of course 
ceremony "the end of percent of people who attempt not. 
unchecked madness and the to buy guns from licensed deal­He said that signing the 
commencement of a heartfelt ers have criminal records. "If Brady bill was "step one in tak­
crusade for a safer and saner you want to stop crime," ing our streets back, taking our 
country." Gardiner said, "you have to go children back, reclaiming our 
The emotion-filled ceremony after the criminals." families and our future." 
Gain the Competitive Edge for a Career in Finance with 
GW's Master of Science in Finance 
A Focused Degree Advanced Curriculum 
The intensive MSF program builds upon p1ior The challenging curriculum covers all major are;L~ of degrees in business, economics ;md other 
finance, with an emphasis on applied research and quantitative disciplines. With its (lifferent focus, 
modeling, as well as international and regulatory ~!SF students gain more in-depth specialization 
ilimcnsions. Courses arc taught by internationally rec­in fin;mcial throry and management th;m is 
ognized full-time faculty. 
~pically arailahle through MBA programs. 
A Valuable Network of Peers A Fast Track 
i\lany swdents in the MSF program are already suc­You can complete your degree in one cessful professionals who work in prominent national
cakndar rear full-time or two wars pan-time. 
and international organizations. 
AKey Location (;\\·~School of Business and Public A Convenient Schedule ~tana~cment is located next door to the ~!SF classes are held on Thursdar, Frida1· and 
\\ orlli l!an k and lntemational ~lonetarv Saturday. so you have the option of seeking an intern­Fund, and close to the Federal Hcsen e: ship or 11orking while you study. Facultv arc available till' L'.S. Tn:asury Department and major to assist you in idcnti~ing professional oppo11unities.
financial market regulatory agencies. 
....····~·-:: ..i.~·.GW's MSF Prepares You for a Career in: 
Im·estmenl B;mking International Finance Corporate Fin:mce Fin;mcial Institution Management Portfolio M~magement Fimmcial Research and Modeling Financial ~larket !{egulation Financial Consulting 
The 
Early admission decisions will be made March 1, 1993. Remaining admission is on a rolling b:L-;is. 


\fa~~ton 
Students arc advised to apply early. 

U!}!~~~}~ 
For more information on GW's Master of Science in Finance, call (202)994-5996. Or complete and return the coupon, below: --~ --------------------------------------------------------------------------­
0 Ple~L'>C send me more information on GW's MSF program. D I would like to arrange an informational interview. 0 Ple~L<>e also send me information on GW's MBA program. 
i\amc: -------------------­Mail this coupon to: 
College/Unirersity: ---------------­Professor Ted Barnhill Director .\1SF Program
School Address:----------------­
The George Washington University Department of Fin:mce School Phone: ( Washington, D.C. 20052 Permanent .\ddress: _______________ 
Or Fax it to: (202)994-5014 
Permanent Phone: ( ) _____________ 
ltSF-C-.-1 JNJ 

~ Requires a five business-day waiting period and background check before can buy a handgun. This begins 90 days after President bill and ends five years later. minimum in states and communities that do States and communities with longer 
retain their 
~ Requires local law records to check handgun. Among those adjudicated aliens. Records days. 
·~ Authorizes spending $2ClQJinil!il)n computerization of criminal recqra~•.~>f.· check system. Once that instant check system I'S''OI~t<a.lltl handgun and long-gun buyers would be 

U.S. negotiators hint at compromise with French 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Brussels, Belgium, with Sir Associated Press Leon Brittan, the EC's chief trade negotiator, and other EC 
WASHINGTON officials. Heading into a crucial round The goal is to clear up re­

of negotiations, the Clinton maining issues between the administration suggested United States and the EC and Tuesday there is room for com­take that deal to Geneva, where promise with France in a fight 115 nations have been strug­that has blocked completion of gling for seven years to com­
global free-trade talks. plete negotiations aimed at 
Both U.S. Trade lowering tariffs and other bar­Representative Mickey Kantor riers to trade worldwide. and Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy indicated there were ways Those talks, under the aus­to resolve the dispute over farm pices of the General Agreement subsidies that has been the key on Tariffs and Trade, are stumbling block to completing known as the Uruguay round the Uruguay round of trade ne­for the country where they be­
gotiations. gan in 1986. While a GATT agreement Kantor expressed hope that could add $200 billion a year to 
the United States and the 12-the world economy by expand­nation European Community ing trade, countries have found could reach an outline of an it hard to lower protective bar­agreement covering not only riers at a time of widespread 
agriculture but other issues economic sluggishness and during discussions Wednesday high unemployment. and Thursday. But there were indications 
In addition to Kantor and Tuesday that the pace of bar­Espy, Se-cretary of State gaining is picking up with just Warren Christopher was sched­15 days before the deadline for 
uled to take part in the talks in completing the talks. 

GO REALLY IRISH! 


Ireland Program 
Information session Tonight December 1 7:00p.m. Game Room Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College 
Film of Ireland Pizza Party 
APPliCATIONS DUE DEC. 14 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, December I, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor................ Meredirh McCullough Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Producrion Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Accenr Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Managcr.............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observ<r is <he independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Oamc du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdlect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned c:di­torlals represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Edicor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to .II members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. The fr~ expression of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNicwpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sporrs 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 Newsil'horo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Narrow-n1inded' beliefs border on 'megalomania' 
Dear Editor: tion the universal validity of the moral principles gives to so truly respect human dignity and sexuality, within our society 
I would like to point out sev­Bible, I suggest that Heilbroner many of us? human life, he seems to forget should be treated. Nowadays eral inconsistencies and mis­should begin to familiarize him­How do celibacy and condem­that the Bible is not the only we have better chances to avoid conceptions I found in Jeff self with other holy writings, nation of pre-marital sex help source of moral principles for prejudice because of our in­Beshoner's amazingly narrow­such as the Koran or the Christians get into heaven ( if humans. I find myself totally creased knowledge of different minded Jetter (The Observer, Bhagavad Gita, because they we assume for the sake of dis­capable of composing my world phenomena and their back­Nov. 18, 1993) that argues are the "WORD OF GOD" for cussion that such a place ex­view myself, without a need to ground. against views Kelly Smith pre­Muslims and Hindus. ists)? I am really curious about resort to a ready-made pattern Following "God's moral abso­sented in her letter (The For it is hopelessly ethnocen­this; maybe someone could of beliefs, imposed to me by an lutes" is at least a dangerous Observer, Nov. 3, 1993). tric to decide that only the Bible clarify this for me. I cannot see established authority. proposition. Who is to decide 
Beshoner surely has a right to has universal validity when in any plausible connection be­This does not at all necessari­which moral principles are ab­believe in whatever he wants fact approximately only one tween denying one's natural ly result in a morally con­solute? It has already been to, but if he is to declare that fifth of world population is un­instincts and needs (be they demnable life. Rather I would mentioned that we are ignorant his opinions have validity also der the influence of this book. homosexual or heterosexual) like to suggest that when an in­and cannot thus have total ob­over other people, he should be What makes the scriptures of and getting into heaven. dividual him/herself forms a jective knowledge on many able to give sound justifications. other religions less worthy than In order to not be misinter­unique synthesis of moral prin­things, including morals, even if To my mind, he does not suc­the Bible? preted, I wish to stress that we ciples that are at hand, those moral absolutes existed las I ceed in this but is rather guilty Beshoner writes also that should not condemn anybody principles are more likely to be personally believe, there are of megalomania in his belief "God is omniscient and there­on the basis of his or her sexual felt obligatory than if person's certain constituting moral prin­that the dogmas he stands for fore, if God calls something sin, orientation but rather on the principles are merely a set of ciples that are absolute). But could have universal validity there is absolutely nothing that basis of how one leads one's life ready-made beliefs which are this very ignorance should lead over the vast diversity of mankind's limited knowledge and how responsibly one acts in received without questioning us to trust ourselves, our own 
humankind. 
can do to change that." We one's sexual relations. Certainly and serious ethical reflection. ability to decide what is right truly are ignorant, even to such there are homosexuals that do So, Christianity is not the only and wrong instead of giving up According to the Christian an extent that we cannot know not live in a responsible way way to learn to love our neigh­this judgment to something that doctrine, god (noncapitalizing whether or not such a thing as but I have not yet seen any bors. may not even exist and whose definitely intended) created god exists. proof that there were no Surprisingly, I agree with messages can be manipulated humans as his image. If homo­We can only believe (or not heterosexuals acting similarly. Beshoner in one detail. Of by subjective factors that affect sexuality proves out to be believe) and I would not call course morality should always the way that those who inter­innate or, at any rate, an that a sound basis to claim with It is good to keep in mind that have primacy over science. But pret these messages see the unchangeable inclination, is it certainty that god really has it is often only a small number I do not think that Ms. Smith world. Maybe this self-reliance not as acceptable as any other certain characteristics, such as of extremists who attract public meant in her letter that this re­in forming our morals could personality trait? omniscience. As I see the mat­attention and act as models for lationship should be the other lead us to find certain universal If we take granted the doc­ter, god does not call anything a stereotypes that the large pub­way around. The fact that bibli­moral principles that I believe trine of god's absolute good­sin. Rather it is the Biblical au­lic forms of minority groups or cal authors were influenced by the majority of people share. ness, it is impossible to think thors, responsible for writing subcultures to which these ex­a lower level of scientific This way we could see through that god would have created this collection of myths (validity tremists respectively belong. If knowledge refers more to the the invisible walls that religions homosexuality just to forbid it of which varies greatly). who humankind as a group was de­inadequacy of the Bible to serve and ideologies form between in order to make lives of homo­called something a sin. They fined on the similar basis, the as a means to explain the people and begin a new era of sexuals difficult on purpose. decided that considering a cer­stereotype of a human being functioning of the universe, peaceful coexistence in our 
And to go even farther, if god is tain action a sin is a part of would not only be an unpleas­which should be clear to every­troubled world after having omnipotent, why would he have their moral standards and con­ant reminder of the sad and body. found out the common moral even allowed homosexuality to cept of god. bloody history of humanity but Various forms of prejudice, basis we act upon. May we all come into existence if it is so Furthermore, if god exists, also an invalid image for the resulting from a lack of infor­rely on ourselves and work highly condemnable? how can we know what he calls majority of people. mation, which influenced together in peace for the better 
Beshoner writes that the sin since our knowledge is so When Heilbroner writes that Biblical authors, on the other future. Bible is of eternal value for all limited? Is not calling some­each of us should use the will hand, make for inadequacy of humanity because it is the thing a sin rather a projection and the word of God as the ba­the Bible to tell us how other PEKKA VAYRYNEN 
"WOHD OF GOD" (sic!). In my of our longing for a sense secu­sis for each of our actions and cultures than ours or different Freshman attempt (or obsession) to ques-rity that a clearly stated set of that only in such a case we will subcultures, including homo-Off-campus DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY

8aint ears 
Mary's 

Collegiate Hall, now Holy Cross Hall, was built in 1903. The hall originally housed all the classrooms, administrative offices, student residences, presidential suite, dining hall and library for the College. 

As the vision grew, Saint Mary's began to build 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 

ter building the stately new Collegiate Hall, 
College President Mother Pauline O'Neill sat in 

er office window looking out over the main drive praying that students would come and fill the halls of the new college. 
A decade later, she told a group of alumnae that she now prayed that no new students would drive up the avenue and ask to be admitted, for the hall was now filled to capacity. 
With academic innovation came the need for the College to grow. The original physical plant could no longer accommodate the growing number of students registering. So, with large expectations and much hope and prayer, Saint Mary's began to build. 
When O'Neill was named the directress of studies for Saint Mary's Academy in 1895 the sisters' school was showing signs of success. Growing enrollment and recognition throughout the country brought the pres­sure to maintain academic excellence. 
A graduate of the Academy, O'Neill wrote of the spe­cial significance of a Saint Mary's education in the 1895-96 catalogue. 
"The education given at Saint Mary's (Academy) is of the most practical and comprehensive character," she wrote. "It is intended to train the heart as well as the mind, to form women who will not only grace society with their accomplishments. but honor and edify it by their virtues." 
O'Neill's first step was to build a College curriculum for the Academy. With the aid of Bishop John Spalding, a one-year post-graduate program was arranged in 1896. In 1898, the first College degree, a Bachelor of Letters in English was conferred to Agnes Ewing Brown. 
The reorganization of the Academy's post-graduate curriculum in 1903 to a undergraduate program and an amendment to the 1855 charter marked the begin­ning of Saint Mary's as an official college. 
With the separation of the Academy and the College in name came the need to physically separate as well. 
In June 1902, ground was broken for Collegiate Hall-now Holy Cross Hall. When the building was opened after Christmas break during the 1903-04 aca­demic year, the College had found itself a new home. 
The new all-purpose hall served as the classrooms, laboratories, residencies, dining area, library, study hall, offices and drawing rooms for the College as well 

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's ArchiVes The science laboratory located in Collegiate Hall was one of the many classrooms that now serve as student resi­dences. 
as private rooms for students in the Academy. The structure was a model for many of the women's col­leges that emerged across the nation for the next 25 years. 
The $250,000 structure, with its 75 private student rooms, filled quickly. The debt for the building venture was paid off in about six years. 
Despite the fact that students had to furnish their own residences, all available space was filled. After their June graduation, most seniors donated their room furnishings to the College, and as this tradition continued, the rooms were soon completely furnished. 
The "Senior Department" of the Academy and the College boasted an enrollment of 217 students during the 1903-04 school year. Collegiate Hall was begin­ning to fill as O'Neill's hopes and prayers were answered. In 1904, the first class graduated from Collegiate Hall. 
The curriculum continued to expand in the College departments. New courses and degrees began to be offered in pharmacy, pedagogy, journalism, domestic science and domestic art all to prepare the women of Saint Mary's for life. 
With the outbreak of World War I, students at Saint Mary's joined in the war effort. The College expanded its curriculum to include practical courses in food rationing in the home economics department. Food and food rationing were also the focus of courses in political science and economics. 
Students who would soon live in the reality of a war­torn world put the theory learned in their classes into practice. At class functions refreshments were not served. Students ate war bread and included another meatless day on the menu. By closing Saint Angela's Hall, the auditorium and gymnasium, the College released two tons of coal to war camps every day. 
With the war over, the enrollment of the College grew once again. A need for a larger facility to accom­modate the increase was again needed. 
Looking out over the main avenue O'Neill hoped that no more students would arrive at the College, for once again there was no room for another woman to attend Saint Mary's. 
With vast plans, little money and much faith, O'Neill again began to build. Le Mans Hall would be her biggest building venture. It would finally offer a com­plete separation of the Academy and the College, which was much needed. 
At first. O'Neill could only gain approval for a new dormitory structure, but she persisted that there was a need for more than just living space. 
O'Neill submitted her plans again and again, in 1924, the General Council of the Sisters of the Holy Cross realized the need to separate the Academy and the College. 
With a projected co~t of $1,500,000 and only about a third of that amount in the }milding fund, ground was broken for Le Mans. The cornerstone was laid as part of the 1924 commencement. 
The new building would house student rooms, class­rooms, a kitchen, dining room and administrative offices. 
Le Mans opened its doors to students in the fall of 1925. Designed by architect Maurice Carrol. at 1919 architecture graduate of Notre Dame, the building became the cornerstone of the Saint Mary's campus.'•· 
The College now had the room to grow, but as the nation entered into the Great Depression, the College entered its most difficult decade with too much space and too much debt. 


ASYMBOL THROUGH THE YEARS 


Le Mans Hall truly is, in multiple senses of the word, a landmark for Saint Mary's College. Geographically, the massive 11 0-foot structure (topped with a 12-foot high stone cross) is the most striking feature of the beautiful northern Indiana campus. Historically, its erection was a watershed event, the result of a brave endeavor by then-president of the college Mother Pauline O'Neill. With only $100,000 in the building fund and a nationwide drive that procured only one­third of its projected cost of $1.5 million, ground was broken on March 19, 1924. 
When the building was complete, the front extended 392 feet on the north side of the campus. The Tudor Gothic style was in perfect harmony with the rest of the buildings. 
Opening its doors to the students during September 1925, Le Mans housed not only the dormitory and administrative offices, but also the classrooms, library, infirmary, presidential suite, and dining hall. Students initially referred to Le Mans as two separate entities-the classroom building and the College dormitory (hence the plural "Our New Buildings" below). 
The struggle and indebtedness incurred to gain permission of the General Council to build was to h?ve far-reaching ramifications. The new building would not only become the mark by which Saint Mary's is known (it is prominently featured in the Sesquicentennial logo, left), but it would also mark the transition which saw the College separated from the Academy when the shared use of dining, living, and classroom space was discontinued. 
Read on for more about the history and personalities behind the legacy of Le Mans. Fr. Cavanaugh 


d ks long mirrors, 
··sLATE ROOF

;1\ a 00rs. Hulh-in es ' · ·n afford 
'' d b ~nd lavatones WI

OUR NEW BUtLDINGS war ro es, " convcnicnc.. ~~ f the building's arti~try ~ 
nv ground was The chma:x ? cha e1 to occupyWith sim.ple ~~;"·~ li.H two new will be rea\i~ed m t\hefl orf of the north .
broken at Samt • ky '" begun on 
. 'f\ wor. w~, I th.e thir~. an~ ftr~~au~iful will .be the-::::
buildmgs. lt" k' Saint joseph. t lC 
will~· E.sp~~.~al y nd Gothic wmdows.•.

M.uch 19, thus ma tngo-f the 'institUtion, 
f 1 • p.nroness vaulted cetlmy a d will not be 
spouse o t ''. e enter rise. . Tempora nee \ the north and
rhe prntectol of thl . ~15 , a dormnory On the norr 1 .ca~\ with a frontage overloo~ed. hfwili:\:Sement a candy 
west wings o I a laundry, ,tnd.md a classroom ~utlt;~~:g -twO feet will shop•. a beauty ~~n o~eer the srud<:ntf three-hundre n. tyuns to the lake. 

0 the tenm~ co · · 1 h . pressmg room 
exren<l from . \ arroony wtr l t .e
1 demands. firepro()f stairways, These f.truct~res, Ill ·u he in GothiC Two elevators, he upper 
present arc:hdlre'XIre, n;\tnd buff-colored dl \' nolettm on t
and soun. ess t 'll contribute to the

~rylc, nr Bt: or sto ' 
floor co~ndor~b 1ci· ~; while its heautVk
brid.... 

u61ity of the Ul m b walls of oa . -DORMITORY 'II be enhanced Y , 1 • "!d.tws of
NEW O.)LLP.l·~· . J mitory will be in WI h doors am' Wll <:J 
paneling. Frenc. d. n design, and ;'larble:nw fo\tr-srory e~~ triangle. with a leaded ~la!»hVa)'le . i~ corridors ,u)d the:

the sh.tp<: of an dpll.g north froln the floors m t e ma . ! 
third win~ extc~ t tower. The m.tin 
chapel.

._.:ntrJI sn;..:;tor) . I d by a fli<•ht of
'II b, 1nproac w "' · h
entrance WI e '.r • vestibule Wit
\eadmg to a .
ston<: ~reph . stone tracery. 'ROOM BUlLDIN~ . 
. l I' \ t set m . h NEW CLASS dassroom bulldmg.
reces~ec :g 1ds d' will open into t e The four·StrY he donnitory andThence gnlk. oors ' 
·puon hall. • , · 1g loc.w:d west. re d~e :we.'it wing by a
formaI reet: . .f\ , r of ;rhe nort1\ ":11 
connected wtt ·t \ -e'"' dinif!g hal\. Oil.On. t~e hJ: o \ounge cighry-et~ht cloister walk, WI\ 1avr, , 1,d class roo~.,
will be a han -~1 ad' oining scrvt!'g c or ectut:..,• "h'd
rhe urst ~loo.' ' he setnl:ld anu t * , feet ln length. ~ \) A decoranve

sun-•'orc 1. · atid \abonton~s lOll t oms on d~ fourt~·' 
room, and a . r nd the ennre 
d wtll surtou h' h Hoors; a~d plnvtte rdinil~l> lull\ for gue~ts
pl'<ln,ena e . J rvest wings. w IC: There wtll a so ~:>C a !" ' 
winv. The e<~o~t an 'd\ . f the open . d"nartment. '11 
.,. h vo st es o d d and a servtce ~~b '\d' gs which wt
I~Jrl1l t e t\ '\\ xtend one-hun re twO Ul Ill , '1\
The. undred students, WI.

qu.tdr.tn~,\e, WI b ,e, d rhe tower, and accomodate five h f The cost IS
rwenty-t'IVc': feet cyonr tO the aVC!1llt: ly fireproo · Will have entrances \eat mg T "hich will he be absolute OOO The plans were 
h tral court. ~. estimated at 'f)O~. c.'•rroll of Kansas
and into r e cen,_ lk \n the west Maunce " ' ·rer
' d 1: \o1ster w-a s. 1 drawn b. Y <?",., d' the contract was
bordcrc . T c I unrr3.don room. t lC C. Mtsso \1 an·' 
,. · wtll e t w r~,. .. d the 
,tty. H 1Chfistm~n

w,tqg . . 'dent's smte, an the · •, . · 
post pffiqe, .r~c p:~d olno:s. The cast :r~ h Bend; The bu1l~ nts i t1ther ndnun~tt u .. d by four student ~ut ...J'b J nc 1 I\
be completou' Y u ' Iwing will be· ocJ.:pple . .md formal 

. ~" lounge,
drawmg-roo•....., 

reception rooms. d floor above tl:e THr GREATER SAI~T. f h .... t)lan~ On the ~co~he srudy hall :-w~n -The materiali7..1l:tiOI1 o tt :;..e much rccreanon ro'? <::'length of rhe ":est wlllg. will bring satisf~cuon n~. n fulftlled, <:."'(tend the en~r : will be gtven to a b se hopes will have ,ee ·n have and the nort ~tng rcadin and stack ecau eca~se Saint Marys. w~ the li[-.rary with ad!acentJ thir}' and fourth ~}Ut b J·, facilities for wteldtSI:hg vi\\ 
0 rhe secon · '. b . 11 mcrease . h · 5 hers. . e ~ 
rooms. . nh . wcr there wtll. e s~a ducarionat power. t 'lht I I '\dings· in 
" )fS ot t e to . f )f prn".ne· e l m er )til ' '
11?l. · ·, nd kitchenette~ c . 1 be greater on.Y 1 · ·-u bnhe same;
~~ntt;lg rooms.a, The ;:~stronomlc3. ·rariorl and Ideal~ sheWI • P'vs at' cntertainm~nt~tl be on the fifth floor of f~~he Sai'll1.t Mary's )ofj:5. t:at!rri h;~~:l' observatnr) WI b .t the roof garden. s, d The greater ,amt 't \ ~ t~ :the :rower, :and a pve I. and thirty~nvo Bfrtr~n I art been !initd~ pt\SSI) . Y~d r .. ... 1 ttndre. d s..1nglc . . •· 0.....J lti latge P. ' f "'" irro·jlua.tes.....~f ol ~ ··
.0 nc 1 • r; suttes Ot · ,,c • · · o tm~ to ,.u: · 'ld ~$ · : ' dintbk roona~~ :'i~h::~~~~~ing ~arh and ~a;, ::1~~~ them,. l\S'tO ~~~ !;;~· ~ ~ l~¢'j.r 
• ()!' .tW'O r<~r··. riv~ue donniro.nes, each ' lsaint Mary's, .WI~ the j!,IC • I ! i : study..an. ;~x. P.. students. wtll o~cupy 'o. rurn for insplr~ tO ae<:o!'wuaU: stx h third and tounh era W ~ rhe ennre spa<-e on t e ~ I I 
--A fact sheet of the day reveals the cautious enthusiasm with which the 
Hall project was promoted ; 
SOURCE Saint Mary's College Archives 


ABOUT THE ARCHITECT 
MAURICE CARROLL • 1897-1990 
J. Maurice Carroll graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a degree in architecture in 1919. Le Mans Hall was one of his first commissions after graduation. He also was the architect for the Rockne Memorial building at Notre Dame, erected in 1938, and he served as vice president of Notre Dame's National Alumni Board in the 1960s. 
Carron twice won the American Institute of Architects medal for church design. The first time he won the award was in 1922 for his work as associate architect in the design of Saint Vincent's Church, Kansas City, Mo. In 1947, he won the medal for the design of Saint Peter's Church, Kansas City, Mo. 
He was the founding partner of the architectural firm Carroll and Dean in Kansas City. Later, from 1948 to 1967, he had his own firm in St. Louis. It was in that city that he was a member of the board of governors of the diocesan Catholic Charities. In 1934, he was district director for the Federal Housing Administration tor the western half of Missouri. 
Carroll's father, Martin, was a pioneer in reinforced concrete construction who collaborated with Thomas Edison in the design of poured concrete houses tor industrial plants. 
He died on Dec. 31, 1990, in Delray Beach, Fla., at the age of 93. 

EQUALS ONE FOOT 
Observer graphic BRENDAN REGAN 


------~-------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer ·150 YEAQ6 Of 6AINT MAQY'6 Wednesday, December 1, 1993 


A look back 
at the people, places and policies of Saint Mary's College 
Compiled by Jennifer Habrych Saint Mary's opened the first course in bacteriology offered 
Living under different social in the State of Indiana in 1903. rules, Saint Mary's women Before the opening of were not allowed visitors from Collegiate Hall with its com­Notre Dame unless the male plete domestic science equip­was a brother or a cousin. ment, seniors had cooking Those who tried to devise such lessons in the convent kitchen. a relationship to sneak into the ••• campus were usually caught In 1907 the first courses in and punished. home economics were intro­
••• duced. In 1909, the catalogue 
In theatrical productions at applied the term "domestic art" \, Notre Dame males played the to sewing and "domestic sci­female roles and at Saint ence" to cooking. Each was a 
\

Mary's women played the roles three-year course that also of men. required class work in bacteri­••• ology, physiology, physics, Men from Notre Dame attend­botany, chemistry, psychology, ed a dance for the first time at logic, pedagogy and physical 
J 

Saint Mary's in 1920. training. ' Photo counesy of Saint Mary's Archives 
In order to prepare the women of Saint Mary's for the reality of the real world, a practical course in auto mechanics was offered at the College in 1915.
"There was a chasm between Saint Mary's students attend­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ed their first Notre Dame foot­
cies for the College. Theater" during the 1903-04 social activities. The opening ofcomparable to the Grand ball game in November 1919. 
••• academic year . the clubhouse was a dinner that
Canyon," alumna Agnes Ewing ••• 
The College granted a degree ••• honored the people of SouthBrown, class of 1898, wrote in College President Mother in pharmacy from 1904 to The first yearbook titled Bend who had contributed to
account of the relationship Pauline O'Neill presented the 
1930. "Saint Mary's Academic the project. 
between Notre Dame and Saint President of the Irish Republic, 
••• Manual" was published by •••
Mary's students while she Eamon De Valera. with the keys From 1915 to 1917 the Academy seniors in 1914. Theattended the College. to the city of Saint Mary's. 
College offered a B.A. degree in College yearbook, "The Blue Catherine Conway, the· first
She described the morning ••• 
Pedagogy. A degree in Mantle" was published for the lay professor at Saint Mary'swalk to the main gate of the Notre Dame Marching Band· 
Education was offered for the first time in 1926. College, began teaching at SaintSaint Mary's. When the silhou­played for the dedication of 
ettes of the Notre Dame men Collegiate Hall (now Holy Cross first time in 1917. ••• Mary's in 1911 . ••• Ground for the Pine Grove Conway received the Laetare
became identifiable across the I I all). 

William Butler Yeats visited Club House was blessed on Medal from Notre Dame in
road those chaperoning the Collegiate Hall housed the 
Saint Mary's and offered two Founder's Day in 1922. Seniors 1907 and the papal decoration
walk would order a right­classrooms, library, presiden­lectures for students "The raised the money to build the Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice in
about-face. tial suite and student residen-Heroic Age of Poetry" and "The clubhouse to use for their class' 1912. 
( Observatory provided a view of the heavens 
By NICOLE McGRATH nae f'unds of $3,544.96, contributed par­Archive notes. News Writer tially to the actual cost of $5,836.63. But by the early 1960's, it seems Saint Somehow, the college made ends meet Mary's had run out of uses for their 
T
here's one building which Saint and the observatory became a reality. once exciting 'alumnae gift'. Mary's students probably have On April 21, 1962, "The old no idea once existed. Saint Mary's had always had a passion Observatory was razed to make way for 
For about 46 years, Saint Mary's had for astronomy. the new $2,000,000 dormitory (Regina its own observatory on the part of cam­Astronomy had been required for Hall) ... ," notes College Archivist Sister pus which is now Regina Hall-near Our graduation since the 1870's, according Bernadette Marie, in a 1973 letter. Lady of Peace cemetary. to the 1916 Chimes magazine. Even There had been the possibility of mov­
"The building, a gift from a Saint though the course was required, stu­ing the observatory to another part of Mary's alumnae, is 40 feet in dents did have to follow some rules. Saint Mary's. But the plan never height...The dome room is reached by a "No continued nocturnal roaming of occurred. winding iron stairway on the inside; the campus was tolerated, even on the from this room there is an outside pretext of an avid scientific interest in The only part of the observatory that gallery of iron twenty-five feet above the the movements of the heavenly exists today is what once was 'the 18­ground, which commands a fairly good spheres," observed the 1973 College foot revolving dome' according to view of the heavens," read the 1916 Archive notes. Archivist Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy. The June issue of Saint Mary's Chimes. dome can now be found on the Early 
Back in 1916, construction for the Roaming didn't seem possible since in Childhood Development Center play­
observatory generated great excitement the old dormitory days, everyone went ground. to study-or to bed-at eight, according to the notes. For the 46 years the observatory 
'No continual nocturnal Staying up late may not have been stood, it seems the building had every­roaming of the campus allowed, but Saint Mary's did allow the thing the aspiring astronomer could observatory to be used for reasons other desire-except for one thing.
was tolerated, even on 

than stargazing. "During World War II, "All, now, that is required are some
the pretext of an avid scientific 

the Saint Mary's observatory was used 'good-seeing' nights, without which even interest in the movements of the for special training by Naval Units from a telescope is useless," the 1916 Chimes heavenly spheres.' Notre Dame," said the 1973 College issue noted. 
Editor's Note: EDITOR: Jennifer Habrych 
College Archives 

This section is the second ofsix special sec­tions commemorating Saint Mary's College PRODUCTION: Lynn Bauwens tric power. So great was the enthusiasm 
and its 150-year tradition. 
that they voted the last penny in the 
Special thanks are given to Sister Rosaleen GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan
among alumnae. treasury to this new college equipment," 
Dunleavy and Sister Monica Wagner of
"The structure.. with an 18 foot dome, said the 1973 College Archive notes. 
College Archives. 

was to house the very latest six-inch Although the observatory has been equatorial telescope, mounted for elec-called "a gift of the alumnae," the alum-
THE BUILDING YEARS: 1887·1924 

1 
1887 1899 1907 Dedication of Lake Marian 1922 
1 
Mass offered for the first The first non-commercial wireless Blessing of
1919

time in Church of Loretto telegram in the U.S. was sent between the ground
D Government markers placed on 
.r 
8 
1892 Dedication of St. Angela Notre arne and Saint Mary's the graves of the Sisters who for the Pine Hall used as the auditorium 1901 served as nurses in the Civil War Grove Club and gymnasium The Student infirmary, Saint Joseph's Hall, was built and Spanish-American War House 
g 
8 !,,.!~:I IL,lp'"'U~:,J I I b:L!., I I b~"'~'"~".,U,,LLLL I I I LLU,.I".!.J~II 2 
7 
Academy named Directress of officially awarded broadcast its first radio concert from dissociates Saint Mary's Academy its first degree 1902 station WGAZ in South Bend 
4 
from Notre and later president of Blessing and laying of the 
Dame the College cornerstone for Collegiate Hall (now Holy Cross Hall) Ground breaking for Le Mans Hall1924 


Wednesday, December 1, 1993 page 9
VIEWPOINT 
BONG MIQUIABAS · DOMESTRUCK 
Be thankful for what matters in life 
On giving thanks: comes to mind. The highly tout­of where our confused lives 
It happens every year when ed Florida State Seminoles, place us. weary students flee the con­possibly the most feared college The Lord is my shepherd; fines of Notre Dame for a brief football team in recent mem­there is nothing I lack. In green retreat from the maddening ory, were supposed to embar­pastures you let me graze; to crowds. We are already past rass our belovedly successful safe waters you lead me; you that moment. Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. restore my strength. You guide 
Thanksgiving ushers in bit­What followed that warmly me along the right path for the tersweet feelings for those who remembered Nov. 13 has al­sake ofyour name. Even when I live too far away to make it ready become legendary. I do walk through a dark valley, I home. I find myself guilt-ridden not so much recall the spectac­fear no harm for you are at my since I can drive home in two ular play of the athletes or even side; your rod and staffgive me hours while some classmates the profoundly satisfying out­courage. remain here, distant from fami­come of the game. Rather, the I'm not the type of guy who ly. Literally, we as a campus unity we exuded was tremen­quotes scripture freely, but I are torn. dously uplifting, even dizzying. find this passage fitting now. 
Half of us live near enough or Then swiftly the emotional When we examine our sur­have the means to return for pendulum swung as the tragic roundings, we discover that the most hallowed of "home news of Mara Fox's death Notre Dame consists of many vacations." Meanwhile, the rest spread through campus and "green pastures" of people im­of us, especially freshmen, must saddened our hearts. Here a bued with a Spirit that guides acquaint ourselves with the different form of Notre Dame us through many a "dark val­idea of Notre Dame as a place unity asserted itself. Despite ley" here and there. This is a for spending Thanksgiving. being victorious that same comforting truth worth re­
It is not a thoroughly depress­weekend, the Notre Dame com­membering at Thanksgiving. ing situation to be trapped in munity converged in solemn So for my fellow Domers who Notre Dame, but who can spirit by praying for and think­find themselves stranded at blame a kid from California for ing about all whom Mara Fox Notre Dame for a few lonely getting winsome this time of touched and all who loved her. days away from the people they year? Yet, Notre Dame does A death in the "NO family," as love best, remember this: you embody certain qualities that with any, is difficult to cope now have some time to quietly Thanksgiving celebrates -fa­with and accept. However, a give thanks and praise for those milial bonding, prayerful reflec­moment like this touches on the loved ones, doing so in a caring tion, and appreciation of the unalterable fact that we will environment. gifts from God. come together to mourn the Let's cast aside such "tragic" 
I am not in the position to say passing of one of our own. As thoughts as the possible ab­how bad it feels to stay on cam­much as it was a tribute to sence of a national title. Who pus for Thanksgiving or any Mara Fox, I think it was also a should be so possessed? holiday for that matter. But tribute to the basis for our Besides, one of life's greatest based on the last few weeks, I Notre Dame community. compensations is that we hurt think we should all find great I remember Psalm 23 during less about such things when we solace in how this campus can times like these, for we should remember what matters more. demonstrate its immense unity. give thanks for what we have, Bong Miquiabas is a senior in
the College ofArts and Letters. .,____________._..,_________""""....,.
An obvious gridiron example and so, gain perspective in light 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR KIRSTEN M. DUNNE DESIDERATA 
We can forgive Rita, but cannot forget Fox 
Twenty-first birthday ritual 
Loss is always painful. And helped his victim. Had he done the wheel. In order to avoidshould 'fade into oblivion' while we temporarily gained so, Mara may have survived, more senseless deaths, we must 
the #1 ranking in college foot­we don't know. Nevertheless, I spread this message, not just to 
ball the weekend of 12 Nov. have noticed the emphasis Rita. The women of Lyons Hall 
Dear Editor: in a toilet bowl? 1993, we also suffered the loss many are placing on John's provided an excellent example 
I have been extremely heart­Nobody can convince me that of a member of our community. wrongdoing, and I feel that it is of how this can be accom­ened by recent letters written undergoing such a rite is pleas­I did not know Mara Rose misplaced for several reasons. plished via their ad in The as a result of the tragic death of ant. Nor can I be convinced Fox, but when I learned of her For one, if we are to be true Observer on Nov. 19. Mara Fox. Such a response is that there is not a great deal of death Saturday morning before to our Christian Faith, we must Likewise, I think that when an indication of very serious pressure accompanying such a the game, an unshakable realize that we are called to people mention the name of reflection regarding the use rite. It is expected that, upon depression overcame me. While forgive even the worst of sin­Mara Fox, it would be more ap­and abuse of alcohol and it's turning 21, one must consume I tried my best to fully enjoy the ners. Lest we worry that doing propriate, and what she would terrible consequences. numerous shots of alcohol. big game, the thought of Mara so will entail letting this young have wanted, for people to re­
I was; however, concurrently Again, another irony presents kept coming back to me -that man off to o easily, we should member the good things about disturbed as I continued to itself. We see such an age to she was not there to enjoy it; rest assured. If no one remind­her than to start ranting and page through The Observer and represent adulthood, yet, try as nor would she be there for any ed John of that night for the raging about the man who saw numerous "21st Birthday I may, I see nothing adult, Notre Dame events to come. rest of his life, he would still caused her death. As I said, I Wishes"; for I was reminded of mature or wise about drinking I compared myself today to pay with his conscience. And as did not know her, but I have a very unhappy "rite" which, ten different shots on one's 21 the person I was at eighteen any of us who have ever experi­gleaned from those who did despite the tragic loss of life st birthday. and realized how much I have enced a guilty conscience are that she was a remarkable directly resulting from alcohol The Mara Fox story has oc­developed and grown in five aware, sometimes -even for young woman. Can't we re­abuse. continues to occur here curred before at this university. short years. I know that Mara much less serious wrongs -this member her in that light? Can't on a daily basis. This "rite" to Indeed, the only difference was must have possessed the same can be more than enough. we focus on Mara, rather than which I refer, is the practice of in the names. Similarly, at that potential. And although I had Secondly, concentrating so John and on her life, rather taking one's friend on his or time, there was a tremendous never met her, I cried for her. much on John's wrongdoing di­than her death? her 21 st birthday and purchas­amount of reflection and con­At the same time, however, I verts our attention from the far As I mentioned at the outset, ing shots for that individual cern about alcohol abuse, could not help but feel also for more crucial message we loss is hard. Forgiveness can be until he or she is dangerously However, the "rite" remained John Rita, an academically bril­should glean from this experi­even harder. But we must en­intoxicated. unaffected then, and unfortu­liant young man who always ence: DON'T DRINK AND sure that Mara Fox is remem­
I find it difficult to believe that nately, remains unaffected seemed to have a smile on his DRIVE. We all know that John bered for her good qualities, 
I was the only one disturbed by now. face. No doubt that smile has wasn't the only student driving and that tragic deaths like hers 
the irony which appeared in I have often heard people disappeared. as has the intoxicated that night; I would­are less likely to occur in the 
The Observer. It was, for me, make statements such as promise his future once held. n't be surprised if even some of future. In order to do so, we 
impossible not to be struck by "Nothing will change until a Not only will he be very unlike­his critics had had a few before must forgive John Rita as best 
the distinctly contrasting mes­tragedy occurs" or "We won't ly to fulfill his goal but since I they got in the car. as we can, and turn our atten­
sages presented only two pages learn until something awful know John to be a caring per­Unless people realize that ev­tion to fighting the bigger prob­
apart. If you did not see the ad happens". Well, I would like to son, he will also never be able eryone who drives under the lem of drunk driving. 
that particular day, look today, say that many awful tragedies to rid himself of the tremen­influence of alcohol has the po­Only then will we have done 
or tomorrow. You will see a have occurred during my eight dous guilt he must feel. tential to take someone's life, what really needs to be done at 
picture of someone appearing years at this University and, Don't get me wrong-I do not they will continue to do so, rea­this juncture, only then can 
to be hideously drunk unfortunately, many of us have condone Rita's actions, I have soning that "it couldn't happen Mara's memory live in the way 
accompanied by wishes of not yet learned. This University always discouraged drunk driv­to me'. Well, it could, and by she almost surely would have 
"happy birthday". has many traditions, most of ing, and even more so I feel chastising only this one person, wanted it to. We have all heard 
Look in the classified section. which I am proud to be a part. that people should not run from we suggest that his drunk dri­the old maxim "Forgive and 
There is bound to be some ref­The "rite" of turning 21 is one I the consequences of their ac­ving was somehow worse than forget." It doesn't apply in this 
erences to buying someone a would much rather see fade tions, John should not have others' because it resulted in a instance. Although we should 
shot on their 21 st birthday. into oblivion. been driving at all that fateful death. forgive, we must never, ever 
How can one have a happy JUDY L. HUTCHINSON night, and certainly when he This is erroneous. Drunk forget. 
birthday when that individual Rector realized he had hit something" driving is improper from the Kirsten Dunne is a student in 
spends much of it with his head Breen-Phillips Hall he should have stopped and minute the driver gets behind the Law School. 




ACCENT 
page 10 Wednesday, December 1, 1993 
Scene from a Christmas Shopping Nightmare 
It's December 2nd. 
There's white stuff on the ground, the tempera­ture is dive bombing -did you realize what this means? 
IT'S TIME TO HIT THE MALL! Oh, yes, much as you'd like t~ ignore it, the fact 

remams that there are-only 23 shopping days left until Christmas! 

MELANIE WATERS Accent Columnist 
(Okay, 25 if you're a guy.) True, the thought o rampaging through a zoo of screaming children and evil bargain hunters may be the last thing on many of our minds. 
But in the midst of SYR's, papers, tests and concerts maybe it's time to devote a little thought to the yearly tradition of Christmas shopping. 
The mere mention of a mall can make even the bravest male weak with terror. Understandably so, since the number of padded chairs outside dressing rooms is nowhere near proportional to the number of guys that seek their shelter. 
And, most of us know that getting a male any­where near a mall in December is a feat that deserves the Nobel prize. So, in order to mini­mize the harmful effects of unprepared mall terror, let's look at our friends Jane and Joe as they take a break from the library and head to UP Mall. 
"Uh, Jane why don't I wait in the car while you just run in?" 
"Hun in! Are you nuts? I have 37 people to shop for. and I'm going to finish today if it kills me!" 
(Gulp) "Or me ...," Joe sighs. 
Once inside the mall Jane heads off with Joe lumbering several steps behind, glaring at the floor. Joe soon panics when he looks up and sees that Jane is nowhere to be found. 
Frantically he darts form store to store hoping to spot her familiar ponytail. He breaths a sigh of relief when he finds her, and rushes into the store. 
"Jane! Don't do that! I thought I'd ... OHMY­GOD! This is an ... a women's ..this is all underwear ! " 
"Will you stop? You're being obnoxious!" 
"But ... but ..." 
"Oh, look! Aren't those guys down the hall from you out there? Hey ...?" 
Joe tries to hide behind a display of satin something-or-others, but not he is noticed by his friends. 
"I can't believe this," Joe growls. He stomps out the door and plants himself on a wooden bench next to four crying kids and their chain­smoking mother. 
After what seems like an hour, Jane emerges with several bags and impatiently beckons to her shopping companion. 
"Aren't you going to look for anything?" Jane asks. "Yeah, well I guess I can buy my mom some­thing. But I don't even know where to start!" Brightening up, Jane replies, "No problem! I'll help." 
"Oh, no, really, it's OK..." 
"Does she wear perfume? What's her favorite color? Does she need a new purse? How much do you want to spend?" "I ... uh ... I guess about, what, ten, fifteen dollars?" "What? Are you serious? You can't be. How about this?" 
"A bracelet? That's $40! I can't .. I mean ..." 
"Here, you wait in line to pay, and I'll meet you at the Gap. Oh, wait, if I'm not there, I went to the Limited. I might stop for a Coke, so if you can't find me right away, don't worry. OK? Bye!" 
"Jane! Wait!! Aaaack! !" 
Yes, folks, welcome to the Christmas season. There's no avoiding it, but you can ease the pain. Just a few last minute tips: if you absolutely must shop at 10 p.m. on December 24, don't tell your girlfriend. Teddy bears in any shade of pink are a bad, bad idea, as is any type of jewelry that your little sister might own and any perfume that smells like it came from the pages of 'Teen Magazine. 


Century Center Enlivens South Bend with contemporary facilities 
Special to the Observer 
Century Center, South Bend's river­front convention showplace, is aptly named. State of the art facilities, a reputation for outstanding service and the building's striking contemporary design prepare the Center of its en­trance into the next century. 
The visionaries who conceived and built Century Center were right to think first class when they hired the architectural form of Philip Johnson/John Burgee. The Center's bold exterior design and the unique interior floor plan centered around the visually stunning Great Hall have impressed thousands of annual visi­tors. The Great Hall's 30 foot high window wall overlooking the St. Joseph River, the man-made whitewa­ter rapids and the nearby Island Park make utmost use of the building's riverfront location. 
"Century Center never fails to excite clients during their first-time visits to the facility. The building sells itself," said Executive Director Brian Hedman, CFE. 
A series of major renovation pro­jects undertaken in the last year have further enhanced the appeal of the fif­teen year old building. The eleven river level suites designed for smaller meeting usage were completely refur­bished with new wall treatments, lighting fixtures and carpeting. 
The transformation of the former Studebaker National Museum space into Convention Hall C added 12,000 square feet to the Center's available 
Century Center Ca{endar 
exhibit space. New carpeting, large decorative wall panels and upgraded electrical service were added to "C" Hall as well as Convention Halls A and B. 
"We're in a very competitive indus­try," remarked Hedman. "The physi­cal improvements we've made at the Center give us and edge in our mar­keting efforts to sell the Center's space. We've always had an advan­tage over facilities that offer four bare walls and a concrete floor and we intend to keep it that way." 
Meeting planners have several cre­ative alternatives when planning spe­cial event at the Center. Bendix Theatre seats 694 and features a state-of -the -art sound and lighting system. Multi-media presentations and guest speakers work well on its three-quarter thrust stage. Recital Hall with 166 seats offers a more inti­mate setting for smaller group presen­tations. The dramatic Great Hall can be used as Exhibit space and is a pop­ular site for banquets or receptions. 
Customer service is the key to the Center's successful track record with convention and corporate meeting planners. A high degree of satisfaction expressed by planners in post-event evaluations one of the reasons Century Center has such strong repeat business. 
"We listen to the needs of our clients and we use our expertise to help guide them in the planning process that makes for successful meetings,"said Hedman. "Our staff's attention to detail and their ability to respond to special requests make a difference in the degree of satisfaction enjoyed by our clients." 

Food and beverage service is provid­ed by Service America Corporation, the food management specialists at the Center. Their capabilities range from simple coffee break service to a custom designed gourmet dinners. A well trained, experienced staff backs the company's pledge to provide supe­rior food presentation and excellent service. 
"After location, food service is the most important factor in a meeting planner's site decision," said lledman. "Service America meets the high stan­dards we set for our in-house cater­er." 
Audio-visual expertise is provided by on-site specialists. A staff of sound, lighting, video and telecommunication experts has a full range of profession­al equipment available to meet client needs. 
The Center's proximity to downtown attractions in another positive consid­eration by meeting planners. The re­cent announcement of the decision to move the College Football Hall of Fame across the street further adds to the Century Center's attraction. 
Century Center looks to the future with confidence at its ability to remain in the forefront of the convention and meeting industry. "The passage of time is not going to change the unique appP-al of Century Center," said lied man. 
Moore auditions 
Saturday, December 4 
Downtown for the Holidays Movie Showing The City of South Bend is sponsoring a Saturday morn­ing event which begins· at 8 a.m. with the WHME TV Kids Zone livec broadcast from Bendix Theatre. At 10:30 a.m. the Knights of Columbus will present "Home Alone 2." Admission is 1 canned good per child and 2 canned goods per adult with donations going to Saint Vincent de Paul. 
Saturday, December 4 
Junior League Holiday Ball The Junior League of South Bend presents a festive evening of dinner and dancing In the Great Hall. A Patron Pary fea~ turing the "Junior League in Song and Dance" musical revue commemorates the Leagues's 50th anniversary year and begins at 5:30p.m. 
Sunday, December 12 
Annual Mitten Tree Ceremony The River Bend Campfire is the sponsor of this service project whereby members bring mittens, scarves and hats to hang on the mitten tree. Christmas caroling and presentation to area schools takes place in the Century Center Main Lobby at 2 p.m. 
Sunday, December 12 Little Miss Christmas Pageant AAA Modeling is the sponsor of this pageant for little girls from newborn to age 11. Recital Hall at noon. Admission is $4 at the door. For entry information call255-7275. 
Tuesday-Friday 
December 14, 15, 16, 17 
ATA Players present "Aladdin" and tbe "Wonderful Lamp" This children's show in Bendix Theatre is scheduled for 9:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Tuesday and Wednesday, Thursday a.t 1 p.m. and Friday at 9:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. Admission is $1.50 per student. For reservations call John Kauss at 284-1455 from 8 a.m. to noon. 
Thursday-Saturday 
December 16, 17, 18 
Jobn Adams High School Theatre presents "Much Ado About Nothing" Directed by Pherbia Engdahl this Shakespearean comedy is set in the 1940's and includes the Adams Jazz Band playing swing music of the period. Bendix Thetre on Thursday and Friday at 7:30p.m. and Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7:30p.m. Admission is $3 at the door ot call John Adams High School at 288-4655. 

for "A Raison in the Sun" cast 
Special to the Observer 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre announces audi­tions for Lorraine Hansberry's A Raison in the Sun to be held at Washington Hall Wednesday, December 1, and Thursday, December 2, at 6 p.m. 
Indiana State Professor Kym Moore will be tho guest direc­tor for the project. Ms. Moore will be casting three African­American women, seven African-American men, and one non African-American per­son. Auditions are open to per­sons who can commit to a six week rehearsal period begin­ning Wednesday, January 12 and performances which will run Wednesday, February 23, through Sunday, February 27. There will be five rehearsals per week, each lasting four hours. 
Ms. Moore has requested no special preparations for her auditions, but suggests that prospective cast members be as familiar as possible with the play. A Raison in the Sun comes from the beginning of the poem Harlem by Langston Hughes. 
Hansberry presents a sensi­tive and compelling picture of the struggles of an urban African-American family dur­ing the 1950's. Critics have praised her for presenting fully developed characters, each imbued with a full range of strengths and flaws. 
If you have any questions about auditions, please call 631-5956 weekdays 8 a.m. to 12 p.m., or Bruce Auerbach at 631-5957. 
Wednesday, December 1, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 

Pioneer sports agent, Puerto Rican athletes defect 
By DAVID BEARD the Cubans would need to es­well. Quoting from 19th century 
author dead at 65 
Associated Press tablish residency. gain Arneri­independence leader Jose 
By JON MARCUS 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Bob Woolf. an attorney who helped define the role of the sports agent, died Tuesday. He was 65. 
Woolf, whose clients ranged from Larry Bird to Larry King, began by representing one baseball player and went on to cut deals for some of the biggest names in sports and entertainment. 
He died in his sleep at his home in Miami, spokeswoman Michele Digregorio said. The cause of his death was not im­mediately known, she said. 
Woolf also represented Carl Yastrzemski, Jim Plunkett, John Havlicek, Ken Harrelson, Julius Erving, Thurman Mun­son, Mark Fidrych, Jim Craig, Derek Sanderson, Marvin Barnes, Robert Parish, Rocket Ismail, Ruben Sierra and nu­merous other athletes. He also handled New Kids On The Block and media personalities, including Gene Shalit and the late Pete Axthelm. 
Known for remaining pleasant even in the toughest nego­tiations, Woolf wrote a book on the subject. He was the author of "Behind Closed Doors," tion's first sports agents when Boston Red Sox pitcher Earl Wilson asked him to handle off­field activities, including prod­uct endorsements and speaking engagements, in 1965. In 1966, Woolf represented Wilson in contract negotiations, at the time an unprecedented role for• a player's attorney. 
"He was one of the first peo­ple in what is now known as sports law," said Peter Rois­man, an agent who represented the late Reggie Lewis. "He was a trailblazer and what he did benefited players immensely. and will continue to benefit players." 
King said: "Bob Woolf was an even better friend than he was an agent, and he was a terrific agent." 
In 1971, Woolf closed his law practic;e and began to represent athletes and celebrities exclu­sively. He had homes and offices in Boston and Miami. 
Woolf not only negotiated con­tracts, he managed his clients' personal finances. Some ath­letes, including Barnes and Erving, fired Woolf because of his refusal to renegotiate for more money in the middle of their contracts. 
"He created a set of ethical 
standards that very few of his 
colleagues in the business were 
adhering to," said Richard 
Lap chick, director of the Center 
for Sport in Society at North­
eastern University. 
SANJUAN 
Cuba hustled more athletes out of this U.S. commonwealth Tuesday after a wave of defec­tions, while loyal athletes called the deserters "babies" and promised to stay with Havana 
"for all time." 
The defections of at least 40 athletes and officials did not stop the Communist nation from dominating the Central American and Caribbean Games, which ended Tuesday. The latest was judo team mem­ber Boris Anansibea, 20, who deserted Tuesday shortly be­fore he was to fly home to Ha­vana, said Julito Labatut, vice president of a small Cuban exile group named Rescue Legion. 
The defectors, who included medal-winning weightlifters, cyclists and gymnasts. eventu­ally could attempt to join the 
U.S. or Puerto Rican Olympic delegations. 
"If those guys stay, Puertn Rico would have a hell of a team," Bob Brennan, press chief for the 1996 Games in At­lanta, told The Associated Press. 
Before playing for th.e U.S., 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

can citizenship and win a waiv­er from Havana, said Mike Moran, spokesman for the U.S. Olympic Committee. That would be extremely unlikely before 1996 Olympic qualifying, he said by telephone from Colorado Springs, Colo. 
The departure of a Cubana de Aviacion jetliner Tuesday from Ponce was the fifth flight out of Cubans before the closing cer­emonies. The Cubans had com­plained of poor housing fa­cilities and accused competition organizers and exiles here of encouraging the defections, the largest number ever from a Cuban athletics group. 
Left behind was a token dele­gation to parade in the closing ceremonies. The remaining group included Cuba's champi­onship baseball team, which plays an exhibition Wednesday night against a San Juan winter league team that contains sev­eral major leaguers, including All-Star Carlos Baerga. 
Granma, Cuba's Communist Party daily, on Tuesday pub­lished a letter to President Fidel Castro from the Cuban sports delegation expressing its loyalty and crediting him for his pre­diction that the squad would do Marti, the letter said in part: 
"The faint-hearted pay re­spect, the great ones move for­ward. This is a task reserved for the great ones.... (We're) with Cuba for all time." 
At the start of Tuesday's fmal events, Cuba had won 363 medals, 227 golds. Runner-up Mexico h.itd 242 medals overall. 64 golds. Many of the defectors competed for Cuba before evad­ing Castro's security agents to escape. 
The letter spoke harshly of the defectors, who had told the media they were fleeing eco­nomic devastation and political repression. 
"Whoever talks of demoral­ization and disunity here, be­cause of the little group of ba­bies that abandoned dignity and honor, forgets the bravery and courage of Cubans these days, committed to save the country, the revolution and the conquests of socialism," said the letter, which was carried by Cuba's official Prensa Latina news agency and monitored in San Juan. 
Right-wing Cuban exiles pa­raded some of the defectors be­fore reporters in San Juan and Miami on Monday. 


AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME  MARCH FOR LIFE  Please don't forget your friends in  
NOTICES  I WOULD GIVE MY RIGHT ARM TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY  EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN,  1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  FRIDAY, January 21 DC TRIP  lnnsbruck. We like mail! Bridget Biggs, Jacob Bump, Chris  
NOTRE DAME WATCH WITHIN  EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  If interested call ND Right to Life  Carrigan, Amy Cooper, Chris  
HOLIDAY CARD ACTION 1993  THE LAST THREE WEEKS. It is  LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ 631-9006  Demoraes, Michelle Dire, Lisa  
sponsered by AMNESTY INTER­NATIONAL on  gold with black leather bands, and has the interlocking ND in the mid- HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE!  ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153  Drury, Elizabeth Harnisch, Joy Hechimovich, Anne Jansen, Brad  
Sunday, Dec. 5. Begins at 6:30 with a vigil at STONEHENGE; writing begins at 7:00 at the esc with a special guest speaker. SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!  die. Call Jim x3584 Lost a gold and pearl pin Between the Football Stadium and LaFortune via O'Shag and Neuwland Science.  CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31 GREAT TEACHERS WANTED!!!!!! Which of the following best describes you? 1. Dynamic communicator  ROOMMATE NEEDED Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs 271-1399 Lodging -Riverfront • Private  HEY PETE!!! HAVE YOU SEEN LARRY??? Dave Cary's Irish Dillon Hall Hey tall cool one,  Joseph, Kacy Kilner, Kim Massman, Simon Mclain, Amy Montgomery, Krista Nannery, Andrew Rathweg, Tom Reck, Monica Scales, Jonathan Schrader, Barbara VanDersarl, & DeeDee Vosswinkel.  
SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! Free Pizza at Senior Bar  If found, please call 631-5243.  2. Ex1remely sharp 3. Superb at standardized tests  257-9101  Lay your HANS on me! Happy 20th birthday!  lnnrain 33 A-6020 lnnsbruck  
tonight at 7:30pm  Lost black Panasonic walkman next to Allegro Cafe ·downstairs La  (SAT, ACT, GRE, GMAT, MCAT)  2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES NEAR ND  Love, the Lewis S-Chick  Tirol, Austria EUROPE  
Free Pizza at Senior Bar tonight at 7:30pm SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS! SENIORS!  Fortune on Monday midnight. Please contact desperate owner at 2257. If you don't want to return the walkman, at least pleasell! return the CASSETIE. It's essential for  4. Witty and clever undergrad or grad student 5. Interested in a fun, great paying part time job for spring semester  AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR 232-2595 FOR SALE  Fri.ihe Geburtstag, Hans Where did that picture go?!? Adoption: the placement of your  DAY OF RECOLLECTION FOR PRO-LIFE STUDENTS WITH CAR·  
Typing 287-4082  this guy's survival. LOST: Silver chain with round ball  If you choose all of the above, please call Stacy Cody KAPLAN TEST PREP in South  Woodbridge condo for sale, near Notre Dame, ideal for student.  child may be the most precious gift you could make. NO alum wants to be mom through your gift.  DINAL O'CONNOR • check your hall mail for information and regis­tration form  
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406  locket that holds six photos. Ex1reme sentimental value. If found, please call 273-5251.  Bend, (219) 272-4135. BEACH Springbreak Promoter.  Owner financing available $42,500. SMITH ZEISZ CO. 272-5444. Kevin Zeisz.  Professional couple, country home, with lots of love and faith. Strictly legal. Call Tricia and Jim 1·800-820-1139.  Get your Christmas shopping done early-take the  ..  
WANTED  Small or large groups. FREE trips and CASH. Call CMI1·800-423­ BAHAMA-CRUISE  WINDY CITY SHUTILE to Chicago this  
5264.  5 Days 4 nites $288/couple  Saturday, Dec. 4 for only $10.  
Coming Soon... the Alumni Assoc. & Senior Class bring you... "The Great Taste of South Bend" Saturday, December 4, 1993 7:30PM Senior Bar Tickets include food and D.J. $6 ea. $10 couple Look for tickets & details at LaF Info. Desk. Must be 21 to partici· pate. Benefits South Bend Center for the Homeless. GRADUATE STUDENTS Consider running for office! GSU elections for '94·'95 will take  Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­lion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 Seeking female, non-smoking roommate for sprg sem. Grad/law student or young faculty/staff. H289-5989, W1-7421.  Need a Ride to Philly/Central NJ for X-mas on Fri. 1711 Call Meg at x2773. Need Ride to Philly/Central NJ for X-mas on Fri.1711 Call Meg at x2773. SPRING BREAK! Sunchase Tours is seeking ambitious sales reps to promote Spring Break '941 Earn cash and free trips. Call today: 1-800-SUNCHASE. RIDERS needed to Quad cities, Iowa Univ, Des Moines, ISU  Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri 1 0-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ex1. 607 94 SPRING BREAK TRIPS REA· SONABLE PRICES TO JAMAICA, PADRE, CANCUN, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA! I! CALL CHRIS@ (219) 289-2767 1 way Chi-Mia (fly) 234-5176 Kevin TICKETS Notre Dame Bowl Tickets For Sale  Quality Copies, Quickly THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631-COPY ADOPTION: NO grad anc' wife, happily married for eigt1t years, wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm, loving home with kindness and patience from a full-time mom and devoted dad. Please call Wendy and Tim at 1-800·440-8588 anylime Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on Luxury Yachts Seven day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin  Tickets and information available at the LaFortune Information Desk 631-8128. BEER GAMES II (the book) GREAT GIFT order NOW receive FREE Intellectual Beer Games, Offensive Jokes! Send $8 cash/check ($7+$1 S&H) Shipped w/in 48 hrs COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: PO BOX2456 AMHERST, MA 01004 Victor Rocks on 4 peace. I'm bilin­ 
place during Sprng.Semester. Drop FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and by the GSU office for info Wed., find out how hundreds of students 1211 (that's tonight) between 6 and are already earning FREE TRIPS 7 p.m. to meet the Elections, and LOTS OF CASH with Credentials & Procedures commit·· America's #1 Spring Break compa· tee. Totally painless. Nice folks. ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, 219 LaFortune (x1-6963) Jamaica, Panama, Daylona or ILOST & FOUND I Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  12/3 x2163 Rudy FOR RENT Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3 bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st. walk to NO. Wash!dryr, dishwashr, 2 car garage, 600/mo + util. Show by appt. 233-6523.  (317) 879·8497 4 Michael Bolton Tix on New Year's Eve at Chicago-great seats­$100 ea.·John x1380 PERSONAL  & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 1/800-999-SAIL (7245) Win a trip to Cancun! Look for details and entry blanks in the coupon section of your new University Telephone Directory. Directories are available now at Student Activities in Lafortune.  gual. Taylor· I hope you are eating healthy and exercising daily like you promised...Don't gain those holiday pounds!! (No turkey skin for you!) Keep up the good work! Love, Jamie  

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS 
Alabama, Langham await NCAA word 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA 
Antonio Langham, one of col­lege football's top defensive backs, is awaiting word from the NCAA on whether his Al­abama career is over because he signed a contract with a sports agent after the 1993 Sugar Bowl. 
Langham, a senior who is the Crimson Tide's career inter­ception leader with 19, would miss the Southeastern Confer­ence championship game against Florida on Saturday and Alabama's bowl game if the NCAA does not lift the ban. 
University officials asked the 
Bowl 
continued from pagel6 
have not officially been given out. 
Another big question going around centers upon the Fiesta Bowl. Why can't Notre Dame just reject the Cotton Bowl bid like West Virginia and go play in the Fiesta Bowl, maybe against Miami? 
the answer to that one is In NCAA to restore Langham's eli­gibility, contending he un­wittingly signed the contract and took $400 from the agent. 

David Berst, assistant execu­tive director for the National Collegiate Athletic Conference, said it is hoped a decision can be reached this week. He said NCAA rules allow Langham to continue practicing with the team and that, in any event, Alabama's record and right to play in the postseason would not be affected by the Langham case. 
Alabama athletic director Hootie Ingram said the univer­sity declared Langham ineligi­
the fine print. The coalition states that a school cannot re­ject a bid to one of the other three bowls (Orange, Cotton, Sugar) to go play in the Fiesta Bowl. That means that if West Virginia rejects the Cotton Bowl bid, they have to go to the Sugar, and Notre Dame has to go to the Cotton Bowl. even though we played the same. 
team there last year. 
So unless the voters suddenly fall in love with the Gators, you can make your plane reserva­tions for Dallas-but l'm not going back. 
As You WisH IMPORTS 
Christmas Sale!! 

Get unique handmade Christmas Gifts at just above WHOLESALE or CLEARANCE prices! 
Imported jewelry, Clothing, and accessories from: 
Guatemala Peru Mexico Greece Afghanistan Nepal India 
(Also 3 lines ofjewelry by American artists.) 
LaFortune Room 108 (near TV). Nov. 22-Nov. 24 and Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 (Sat.) 11:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following General Board position: 
rviewpoint Editor 
Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduat or graduate student is encouraged to apply. 
The editor is responsible for the contents ofthe Viewpoint section, from letters to columns to cartoons. Applicants should have good management and interpersonal skills. To apply, submit a personal statement and resume to David Kinney by Monday, December 6, 1993. Call David Kinney at 631-454201 Rolando de Aguiar at 631-4541 with questions about the position or the application. 
ble after receiving a letter Nov. 22 from a sports agent claiming to represent him. Ingram said the university reported the action to the SEC and prepared the report for the NCAA seeking to allow Langham to complete his career. 
SEC Commissioner Roy Kramer said the eligibility case does not affect Alabama's ap­pearance as the Western Divi­sion winner going against Florida in the title game Satur­day in Birmingham. 
The Birmingham News re­ported that Langham claims he did not know what he was do­ing when he signed an agree­ment with sports agent Darryl Dennis of Washington, D.C., during the early hours of Jan. 

2. The signing reportedly oc­curred as Langham and Al­abama teammates celebrated their Sugar Bowl victory at a nightclub and Dennis gave them complimentary drinks. 
The request to restore Lang­ham's eligibility was sent by 
.Thomas L. Jones, Alabama's faculty representative. He ad­vised the NCAA that Langham "did not know that he was sign­ing a document," and had no intention of skipping his senior season and declaring himself for the NFL draft, The Birmingham News reported. 
--~--. 
Wednesday, December 1, 1993 
Gator QB out for season 
Associated Press 

GAINESVILLE 
Arthroscopic surgery on 
Tuesday showed cartilage 
damage and partial ligament 
tear in the right knee of 
Florida quarterback Danny 
Wuerffel, who was hurt in 
Saturday's game against 
Florida State. 

Doctors at Florida Surgical 
Center at Shands Hospital re­
paired some of the damage. 

"Danny will start rehabbing 
right away," said team 
physician Dr. Pete Indelicato, 
adding no further surgery is 
necessary for the sprained 
ligament. 


-..r·'.i., I -~ f'.·.·-.. ~ ' 
·:1 .-.. 
"'' 
SuM~ 5E:RV1CE: 11wJE:CTS 
Information Meeting: 
Dec. 1 (Wed.) 5:30 -6:00 pm Center for Social Concerns 
Application Deadline February 11 
$1500.00 SCHOLARSHIP (NO Students only) 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer 
In cities of ND Alumni Oubs across the US 
Come and find out what SSPs are all about 
,.......... 
\ ' 
,, \\ 
\ 3 ON 3 

BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
,. 


Sign--ups December 1--15 at LaFortune Information Desk 
Tournament Play begins in January. Winner advances to National 
Tournament and wins a·chance to play at an NBA Arena! 


Wednesday, December 1, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
RosentHal calls+~:'coal rumors"'ba~,p~f:_-... 
'Ek ,..,,. . .. .. ,.,... ,., 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 
Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal denied a, Chicago radio station's report Tuesday that the Fighting Irish planned to leave the bowl coalition after this season. 
"There's not an iota of truth to it," Rosenthal said, calling<r the report "a figment of some-: body's imagination and proba~''' bly a very bad practical joke ... 
The report on WSCR·AM said Notre Dame was disgruntled with its inability to control its,. n,.u,.,::.,1' '"' •·•u• postseason destiny and unhap~~w N~'br~t.<iklll anfiext.eJ py with what it believed wasl"" for anti-Notre Dame s among voters in the 
The station based its 
sources it said were 
;.·:·.:;:_:,.•:• 

William P. Barr 
Former United States Attorney General 
Speaks On: 

Violence in America 
and 

Criminal Justice Reform 
a round table discussion and reception will follow the speech 
Thursday, December 2, 1993 2:00p.m. 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Sponsored by the Black Law Students Association, Federalist Society, Notre Dame Law School, and the]ohn M. Olin Foundation. 
Cavaliers lose Alexander 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA 
One day after their worst loss in the 29-year history of Uni­versity Hall, the 12th-ranked Virginia Cavaliers got more bad news Tuesday: point guard Cory Alexander will be out at least six weeks, 
Doctors said X-rays showed that Alexander, a 6-foot-1 ju­nior who was Virginia's scoring and assist leader last season, has a crack in the inside bone of his right ankle. 
"Obviously, this is a setback," coach Jeff Jones said, "but it is by no means something that we're going to hang our heads about. We're going to miss Cory and everybody is wishing him a speedy recovery, but we've got plenty of basketball to play." 
Virginia has 10 games over the next six weeks, including Stanford, Minnesota, UNLV and Florida State. 

Alexander had to be helped from the court after going down in the first half of Virginia's season opener Monday night, a 77-36 loss to Connecticut. He did not return. 
Alexander said he still had no idea how the injury occurred, even after viewing a videotape of the game. 
"I really couldn't see my foot twist or anything to the point where I could have hurt it," he said. "All I could see was I started limping." 
Alexander, who averaged 18,8 points and 4.6 assists last sea­son, will be replaced by fresh­man Harold Deane. In 29 min­utes against Connecticut, the 6­1 Deane had three steals and 10 points. He was the only Cavalier to score in double fig­ures. 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
Hope posed a unique threat to the Belles in that every one of their players can effectively shoot from the perimeter. Hope's three-point scoring con­tributed greatly to the large margin last night and also extended the Belles' defense. 
Hope guard Tai Holleman hit three out of fout three-point attempts in a row. Her team­mate Nikki Mannes also hit two three-pointers. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge ofMacintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 


Ward wins top QB award 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE 
Florida State's Charlie Ward 
was selected Tuesday as 
recipient of the Johnny 
Unitas Golden Arm Award, 
given annually to the nation's 
top senior quarterback. 
Ward passed for 27 touch­
downs this season to lead No. 
1 Florida State to an 11-1 
record and a likely national 
championship game against 
No. 2 Nebraska. He complet­
ed 264 of 380 passes for 
3,032 yards and set or tied 
17 school passing and offense 
records. 
Ward will receive the 
award on Dec. 10 in 
Louisville by the Kentucky 
Chapter of the College 
Football Hall of Fame. 
Saint Mary's leading scorer was Taubenheim with 26 points, She also led in rebounds with ten, followed by freshman center Katy Lalli who had five. The Belles' senior forward Anne Mulcahy had six turnovers and also scored a three-point shot for the team. 
Since the Belles are such a young team, Coach Wood used last night as an opportunity to see what the team was capable of. 
"I don't really know what our girls can do yet. The only way to find out is in competition," Wood said, 

-
Jacksonville selection 
NFL welcomes Jaguars 
By DAVE GOLDBERG The expansion and finance to 73,000 seats, with 10,000 
stuns other bidders 

Associatrd Prrss committees, voting in tandem, club seats and 68 luxury boxes. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 199 3 

went 10-2 for Jacksonville, with  The ownership also includes  
ROSEMONT, IL The NFL took on a distinct Southeast tilt Tuesday, select­ing longshot Jacksonville, Fla., to join Charlotte as its 1995 ex­pansion teams. "The Southeast," commis­sioner Paul Tagliabue said, "is a terrific area for football, a real hotbed." So it will be the Jacksonville Jaguars, the longest shot on the board when the process began, playing in aqua shirts trimmed with yellow sleeves and black spots and an open-mouthed jaguar on the helmet. They joined the Carolina Pan­thers -giving the expanded NfL 30 teams-by beating out the old-line cities of St. Louis and Baltimore, as well as Memphis, Tenn. St. Louis and Baltimore each has lost teams in the past decade; Memphis was one of the favorites when the NFL first began discussing expansion six years ago. "Listen, in the NFL I'm not surprised about anything," said Ralph Wilson, owner of the Buffalo Bills. "You never go into any meeting with a prede­termined view." Charlotte was chosen five weeks ago at a meeting in which the owners couldn't de­cide on a second team. This time they did -quickly and largely because Tagliabue made up his mind to support Jacksonville on Monday.  Hobert Tisch of the New York Giants and Norman Braman of the Philadelphia Eagles sup­porting Baltimore. The final expansion vote was 26-2, with Braman and James Busch Or­thwein of New England, an original member of the St. Louis group, voting against Jacksonville. Tisch's co-owner, Wellington Mara, switched the Giants to the majority. The vote may lead to more flux in the league. The Los Angeles Rams, Cincinnati Bengals and the Pa­triots all have indicated willing­ness to move. Baltimore is in­terested in the Rams and St. Louis in the Patriots, largely because of Orthwein, who took over New England as a favor to the league. Tagliabue downplayed that possibility. "We will follow our normal process for moving teams," he said, citing rules requiring owners to show they can do better in a new territory than their own. He declined com­ment when asked if any current teams met those criteria, but said he's committed to keeping the Patriots in New England. The Jacksonville group is headed by Wayne Weaver, a Connecticut shoe manufacturer, and includes Jeb Bush, the son of former President George Bush. It will play in the Gator Bowl, renovated for $121 mil­lion and cut back from 82,000  Deron Cherry, the former All­Pro safety of the Kansas City Chiefs, one of four black former NFL stars included among the groups seeking franchises -only Carolina lacked one. The 34-year-old Cherry, who retired two years ago, might have to get into condition to start at free safety when the Jaguars start play; the expansion pool is likely to be a poor one. The best-known of the ex­players is Walter Payton, the NFL's all-time leading rusher, who always has aspired to run­ning a team and was part of the St. Louis effort from the start. "How much does this hurt?'' Payton asked. "There's no words to describe it. I think Jacksonville was the safest choice they could make. I wouldn't want to get into a situ­ation where I'm going to be in court for the next 15 years." That, rather than tilting the league to the Southeast, might have been a major factor in the decision. Some owners seemed to believe picking St. Louis and Baltimore would lead to court fights. St. Louis lost the Cardinals to Phoenix in 1989, five years af­ter Baltimore lost the Colts to Indianapolis. Said another would-be owner, Baltimore's Malcolm Glazer: ''I'm just practically ready to start crying."  By R.B. FALLSTROM AAociared Press ROSEMONT, IL Two hours before the NFL awarded its 30th franchise to Jacksonville, Fla., Stan Kroenke was wondering why that city was even in the hunt. "Jacksonville is a fine city, but they're the 52nd (actually 56th) TV market," said Kroenke, the head of the St. Louis group. "St. Louis is 18th, and there's a huge dif­ference there. If people look at it strictly going on merits, St. Louis will win going away." Instead, Kroenke's Gateway Football Partnership beat a hasty retreat, along with the rest of the expansion losers, soon after NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue's announce­ment Tuesday. The head of the Memphis group, William Dunavant, ig­nored reporters and stormed out of the suburban Chicago hotel where the meetings were held and bopped into a taxi. Baltimore's Leonard "Boogie'' Weinglass did the same, saying, "I've had enough, enough," as he also hailed a cab. Maryland Governor William Schaefer said, "I think we had the best presentation. Either they conned me to death by saying it was great  or I don't know what. But you can't beat the commissioner." The head of another Balti­more group, Malcolm Glazer, talked only briefly. ''I'm just practically roady to start crying," Glazer said. There were no tears from Kroenke, but he certainly looked stunned. ''What went wrong?" he said. "I don't know." St. Louis appeared to have a lot going for it. The nation's largest TV market without a franchise and a 70,000-seat domed stadium under con­struction were the biggest selling points. It also had Walter Payton, the NFL's career leading rusher, involved. But ownership problems hurt. Kroenke's group was the fourth for St. Louis and it wasn't formed until Oct. 25, a day before the NFL awarded the first expansion franchise to Charlotte. Also, Gateway couldn't negotiate a deal for the 30 percent share of the stadium lease held by beer distributor Jerry Clinton, who headed the old St. Louis group. There were legal worries, too. The league has been burned by lawsuits in the recent past, and didn't relish the prospect of problems from Philadelphia entrepreneur Fran Murray.  
DART  ACCf ACCf  232 03 232 05  4828 4831  ARST ARST  1505 212S  01 01  0249 1477  ECON ECON  123T 01 123T 02  5061 5062  ENGL ENGL  497B 01 513 01  5159 5162  H1ST HIST  403 01 403A 01  4702 4703  Ml MI  435 01 494 01  5315 5320  ROFR ROFR  241 01 310 01  1884 2370  
ACCf  232 06  4832  ARST  232S  01  3068  ECON  123T 03  5063  ENGL  545 01  5165  HIST  417A 01  5265  MI  523 01  5323  ROFR  312 01  0448  
CLASSES THAT  ACCf  232 07  4833  ARST  242S  01  2I98  ECON  123T 04  5064  AN  231 05  3360  HIST  420 01  4399  MI  531 01  5326  ROFR  429 01  5451  
WILL REOPEN  ACCf  334 01  2110  ARST  246S  01  4000  ECON  224 01  3794  AN  231 08  3093  HIST  420A 01  5266  Ml  533 01  5327  ROIT  106 01  3718  
AT 7:00P.M.  ACCf  372 02  0684  ARST  248S  01  2276  ECON  224T OJ  5085  AN  360 03  2674  HIST  454A OJ  4066  MJ  549 OJ  5329  ROSP  102 04  1415  
12/01/93  ACCf  372 03  3238  ARST  294S  01  0787  ECON  224T 02  5086  AN  360 04  2535  HIST  460 01  3860  MI  674 01  5341  ROSP  103 04  0919  
ACCf  372 04  3601  ARST  326S  01  0732  ECON  225 01  1908  AN  361 01  3757  HIST  460A 01  3862  MSA  574 01  5788  ROSP  103 05  3043  
ACCf  372 04  3601  ACCf  475 01  3866  BA  230 01  0196  ECON  302 02  0425  AN  361 02  2305  HIST  477A 01  5270  MSCI  312 03  2100  ROSP  103 07  3028  
AFAM  419B 01  4941  ACCf  476 01  0702  BA  230 02  0024  ECON  315 01  2283  AN  361 03  2918  HIST  484 01  5271  MUS  220 01  0763  ROSP  232 01  2145  
ANTH  328 01  3920  ACCf  476 02  1270  BA  230 06  1009  ECON  340 01  4041  FIN  361 06  1091  HIST  490 01  5272  MUS  222 01  3106  ROSP  235 01  3742  
ANTH  "450  01  4977  ACCf  479 01  1780  BA  363 02  1604  ECON  422 01  2241  AN  370 01  1246  HIST  493 01  5275  MUS  223 01  3247  ROSP  236 01  1077  
ARHI  451 01  5003  ACCf  480 02  0744  BA  392 01  4839  ECON  430 01  0178  FIN  370 03  2861  HIST  504 01  386J  MUS  225 01  2041  ROSP  238 01  2744  
ARH1  462 01  4164  AFAM  258 01  4802  BA  392 02  4840  ECON  456 01  0977  AN  380 01  3635  liPS  415E OJ  4582  MUS  226 01  1109  ROSP  310 01  5463  
ARST  248S  01  2276  AFAM  258 02  4805  BA  464 01  3743  ECON  460 01  4264  AN  478 01  2782  liPS  491A OJ  4300  MUS  228 01  5343  ROSP  319 01  1332  
BA  392 02  4840  AFAM  306 01  4983  BA  464 02  3842  ECON  462 01  5090  FS  180 01  3301  liPS  515E 01  4581  MUS  230 01  1655  ROSP  319 02  2483  
BA  464 01  3743  AFAM  329 01  4611  BA  490 02  0370  ECON  487 01  0367  FS  180 02  3632  liPS  543 01  4133  PHIL  201 04  0600  ROSP  329 01  3834  
BIOS  412L 01  1556  AFAM  329 02  4613  BA  490 03  2571  EDUC  201F 05  8405  FS  180 21  2088  liPS  566 01  44JI  PHIL  201 07  2972  ROSP  433 01  5730  
COTH  301 01  5050  AFAM  372 01  4097  BA  490 04  1499  EDUC  201F  08  8408  FS  180 25  3317  liPS  590 01  5306  PHIL  216 01  5359  ROSP  495 01  5731  
COTH  481 01  5058  AFAM  384C 01  4940  BIOS  303 01  3026  EDUC  324 27  8427  FS  180 26  2681  liPS  602 01  5721  PHIL  217 01  5360  ROSP  499  01  0974  
ENGL  201 01  5097  AFAM  389 01  4433  BIOS  341 01  217J  EDUC  370 42  8442  GE  313 01  0544  LAW  615C 01  0077  PHIL  221 01  3828  RU  374 01  5189  
ENGL  319B 01  5115  AFAM  419B 01  4941  BIOS  344L 01  2068  EE  232 01  4885  GE  410 01  4095  LAW  631E OJ  3147  PHIL  222 01  3590  sc  362  01  4784  
ENGL  319E 01  5116  AFAM  419C 01  4942  BIOS  344L 02  014J  EE  232L 01  4887  GEOS  242L 02  4870  LAW  631F 01  2383  PHIL  222  02  0405  soc  202  01  5466  
ENGL  322A 01  5118  AFAM  454 01  4064  BIOS  407L 01  2655  EE  232L 02  4888  GEOS  362 01  4785  LAW  631G 01  0041  PHIL  225  01  4188  soc  220 01  1344  
ENGL  340 01  5121  AL  212 15  2882  BIOS  4JIL 01  2367  EE  232L 03  4889  OOVT  316F OJ  4588  LAW  63JH OJ  2672  PHIL  227 OJ  0274  soc  232  01  2050  
ENGL  411A 01  5700  AL  212 23  1503  BIOS  412L 01  1556  EE  242L 01  253J  GOVT  340T 02  4675  LAW  635  01  J671  PHIL  241 01  1610  soc  234 01  1936  
ENGL  419C 01  5134  AL  212 33  36J8  BIOS  416 01  1223  EE  354L 01  0933  GOVT  341 02  5191  LAW  676 01  1220  PHIL  241 02  1621  soc  242 01  4478  
FIN  360 03  2674  AMST  317E 01  4951  CAPP  253 01  0337  EE  354L 02  2605  GOVT  342T OI  0755  LAW  676A 01  2435  PHIL  245 01  4073  soc  242 02  3856  
AN  360 04  2535  AMST  342H 01  4985  CAPP  316 01  3406  EE  498H 01  4507  GOVT  342T 02  0703  LAW  695 01  3128  PHIL  246  01  0084  soc  302 01  2512  
AN  478 01  2782  AMST  343H 01  4986  CAPP  331 01  3868  ENGL  201 01  5097  GOVT  343T 04  1424  LAW  695 02  3790  PHIL  258 01  4803  soc  303 01  4144  
FS  180 25  3317  AMST  344H01  4987  CAPP  361 01  2379  ENGL  301 01  0758  GOVT  343T 05  2942  LAW  695 03  3010  PHIL  259 01  5362  soc  306 01  5467  
HIST  327A 01  3889  AMST  347H 01  4989  CAPP  485 01  5039  ENGL  301 02  5665  GOVT  343T 06  1430  LAW  695 04  0632  PHIL  261 01  1752  soc  346 01  4081  
HIST  359A 01  4717  AMST  348H OI  4990  CAPP  499B 01  1325  ENGL  302 01  5102  GOVT  343T 07  2375  LAW  695 05  1211  PHIL  264 01  1419  soc  370 01  0507  
HIST  361A 01  5256  AMST  349H 01  4991  CE  235L 01  2179  ENGL  305B 01  5103  GOVT  343T 08  1547  LAW  695  06  2140  PHIL  264 02  5363  soc  374 01  5468  
HIST  372A 01  5257  AMST  365E 01  4952  CE  440 OI  0515  ENOL  310 02  5105  GOVT  424 01  3368  LLRO  531 01  5450  PHIL  264 03  5364  soc  404 01  5470  
HIST  37SA 01  5258  AMST  398E 01  4954  CE  470 01  2437  ENGL  311 02  5107  GOVT  454 01  5204  MARK  231 03  2854  PHIL  268 01  1646  soc  419 01  4362  
HIST  403A 01  4703  AMST  399E 01  4955  CHEG  556 01  2225  ENGL  3I2  02  5109  GOVT  492B 01  5209  MARK  231 05  3029  PHIL  519 01  5373  soc  424 01  4798  
HIST  477A 01  5270  AMST  417E 01  4956  CHEM  119L 01  3880  ENGL  314A 01  4042  OOVT  492E 01  5211  MARK  374 01  0911  PHYS  222L 02  2555  soc  440 01  5471  
HIST  493 01  5275  AMST  418E 01  4959  CHEM  202 02  0962  ENGL  315C OI  4422  GOVT  495 01  5714  MARK  381 OI  3366  PHYS  222L 03  4933  soc  460 01  5473  
LLRO  531 01  5450  AMST  431E 01  4958  CHEM  204 01  4030  ENGL  3J6F OJ  5112  GSC  242 01  4477  MARK  381  02  5739  PHYS  222L 05  0672  STY  454 01  3990  
MARK  493 01  0315  AMST  458E 01  4960  CHEM  224L 07  4921  ENGL  319B 01  5115  GSC  282 01  5177  MARK  493 01  0315  PHYS  222L 06  2514  THEO  200 01  2565  
MUS  220 01  0763  AMST  491 01  4962  CHEM  322 01  4925  ENGL  319E 01  5116  GSC  342  01  3277  MATH  103 01  1297  PHYS  309 01  4237  THEO  200 02  2723  
PHIL  221 01  3828  AMST  495E 01  4964  CLAS  325 01  4043  ENGL  322A 01  5118  GSC  419C 01  5182  MATH  226T 08  3487  PHYS  331L 01  4934  THEO  224 01  5502  
PHIL  241 01  1610  AMST  496E OJ  4965  CLAS  427 OJ  4420  ENOL  334 OJ  5J20  OSC  424 01  4799  MATH  336 02  3770  PSY  2JJA 01  0269  THEO  229 OJ  4762  
PHIL  246 01  0084  ANTH  328 01  3920  CLAS  442 01  2346  ENGL  340 01  5121  GSC  489 01  5186  MBA  602 01  4846  PSY  341 02  2292  THEO  234 01  1620  
PHIL  258 01  4803  ANTH  328A 01  3921  COMM  103 05  ~705  ENGL  351 01  5122  GSC  495B 01  5188  MBA  625 01  3947  PSY  342  01  1136  THEO  243 02  1039  
PHIL  268 01  1646  ANTH  329 01  4610  COMM  103 07  9707  ENGL  373 01  5123  HIST  1J6T 03  1104  MBA  629 02  0512  PSY  342  02  0551  THEO  252 01  0047  
PHYS  222L 02  2555  ANTH  329 02  4615  COMM  103 09  9709  ENGL  384C 01  5124  HIST  II6T 05  3071  MBA  631 01  2261  PSY  350  01  0685  THEO  254 01  2588  
PHYS  222L 05  0672  ANTH  329A 01  4970  COMM 210 16  9716  ENOL  3920 01  5126  HIST  116T 07  5240  MBA  637 OJ  31J6  PSY  356 01  0585  THEO  255  02  5507  
PSY  357 01  3462  ANTH  330 01  2516  COMM 304 28  9728  ENGL  411A 01  5700  HIST  227T 01  5247  MBA  648 01  4848  PSY  357  01  3462  THEO  260 01  0228  
•  RLST soc  251 32 242 01  9532 4478  ANTH ANTH  389 01 403 01  4434 4974  COMM 454 40 COTH 204 01  9740 4033  ENGL ENGL  413A 01 419B 01  4421 5133  HIST HIST  227T 02 227T 03  5248 5249  MBA MBA  675 01 682 02  4773 2569  PSY PSY  36J 01 396A OJ  5390 5391  THEO THEO  263 01 263 02  5659 2856  
soc soc  370 01 440 01  0507 5471  ANTH ANTH  450 01 454 01  4977 3988  COTH COTH  204 02 205 01  4626 4035  ENOL ENGL  4J9C 01 434 01  5134 5137  HIST HIST  309 01 309A 01  406J 4063  MGT MGT  231A 01 240 02  2167 3702  PSY PSY  405 01 453 01  5419 5420  THEO THEO  265 01 269 01  3001 5509  .  
THEO  229 01  4762  ANTH  454A OJ  3989  COTH  205 02  4591  ENGL  435A 01  5139  HIST  327A 01  3889  MGT  240  05  1659  PSY  479 01  5424  THEO  281 01  4105  
THEO  265 01  3001  ARCH  444. 02  2384  COTH  301 01  5050  ENGL  440M 01  5791  HIST  337A 01  5254  MGT  355  01  1629  PSY  487B 01  5427  THEO  282 01  5510  
THTR  410 60  9760  ARCH  598E 01  1134  COTH  435 01  4665  ENGL  458C 01  5144  HIST  342A 01  3918  MGT  472 01  2064  PSY  565 01  5433  THEO  287 01  2645  
ARHI  169 01  3773  COTH  476 01  5057  ENGL  467A 01  5149  HIST  348A 01  4450  MGT  497 01  1724  RLST  213 20  9520  THEO  290 01  2560  
CLOSED  ARHI  252T 02  4994  COTH  481 01  5058  ENGL  480 01  515J  HIST  359A 01  4717  MGT  499 OJ  4775  RLST  213 22  9522  THEO  405 01  4398  
CLASSES  ARHI ARHI  403 01 451 01  4997 5003  COTH CSE  489 01 221L 03  5059 0441  ENGL ENGL  483 01 489 01  4094 5152  HIST HIST  361A 01 372A 01  5256 5257  MI MI  309 01 334 01  4062 5310  RLST RLST  230 24 242 28  9524 9528  THTR THTR  135 50 230 51  9750 9751  
ACCf ACCf  231 01 231 03  4819 4821  ARHI ARHI  462 01 488 01  4164 4160  CSE DESN  341 01 IllS 02  4877 3280  ENGL ENGL  489B 01 491A OJ  5153 5154  HIST HIST  375A 01 378A 01  5258 5260  MI Ml  403 01 406 01  4701 53JI  RLST RLST  251 32 458 43  9532 9543  THTR THTR  276 53 410 60  9753 9760  
ARST  134S  01  1216  DESN  330S  01  5694  ENGL  492E 01  5155  H1ST  391 01  5261  MI  429 01  5313  ROFR  103 04  2411  


45 Composer· 53 Anagram of 55 

18 Washtub ISinglass 
Bartok ACROSS
residue 33 Cacophony 47 Furnish w1th 54 Blunt22 Kind ot jury 34 "-Alibi," fresh personnel 57 Links necessity 24 Anagram of Selleck f1lm

SEMINAR 1-:::11-::t-':+.=:-t:~~r.;-t;-;+.~~t-:::-i~;--i 26 Tom Collins 36 Painter ol 
Get answers to any three clues

ingredient haystacks 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

f=+=+:--t=-i 28 Anagram of 37 "The Crying TIMESAVING Game" actor 5656 (75c each minute). 
NATIONAL DRUNK AND DRUGGED HAVE A
DRIVING (3D) PREVENTION MONTH 
SAFE 


•
0-1-3

DECEMBER 1993 
HOLIDAY SEASON

OFFiCE Of ALCOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION 
Friends Don't Let Friends Drive Drunk 

Wednesday, December 1, 1993 
SPELUNKER 
L ____________..----~ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
GREf>,\l J\JST GREP--1.' 11\01'<\ LETS \JS '5Th'{ \JP \41\LF AN 1-\0\JR, LONGER 1D FINIS\-\ TH\5 PJ\I'ER. 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
. ANv THF!r CoME.S To $2.31'1, S11< .. 
\ 


~0\JR 1'-\Ql.\ 
SI\'I'S '{0\.l WI\5TE.t> 11\E WH()LE 
E~ENING. 

ANT> WouL-D ~ou Ll1'£. THe.. 
''ALL T CAR£ /iBou.-b THE SmALL /NcoNVE.NIENC£ To 
(Yl~ Wol<.:n{L£S'S. HrDt:" 

VLAS"l'IC. -"BAG, OR. 
AN [NVIR.ONfYlENI­
loVI NG -pAPER
~ tsAG? 
54 Anagram of 
REVILED 55 Dash, e.g. 56 Anagram ol 
NATATORIUM 58 Fashion color 59 Maid in "Die 
Fledermaus" 60 Drudge of the manor 61 "Iolanthe" 
marcher 62 Carols 63 Graduate degs. 
DOWN 
1 Iniquities 2 Indian princess 3 Anagram of 
DICTIONARY 4 Mother-of-pearl 5 Apropos of &Compete 7 Chemist's 
solvent a"-c'est moi" 9 Anagram of 
TERRACE 

29 Harness race 40 Anagram of 48 Dry penods 1 o Finished ASUNDER 
49 Diva Mitchell 11 Speck of dust 
30J.F.K. visitors 42 Measurable 50 Sea birds 12 Was in the red 31 Cloth made 44 Swordfish in the 51 Kind of school 14 Canaanite from bark sky 52 Burano export DINING HALLcommander 32 Chinese 





~------~­
------~-----------, 
The Observer • TODAY pagel5 JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
THE PERIL'S or: LJVINC, AT TH"' BASE 



B\JT NOW SI-IE'S Ml\\<.\t'-1~ ME 
VCl 1\ R\151-Wll, SL\?5\-\0il JOB' I'Ll f-11>--"lt. \\) COI'II?RO\v'\l~ -ruE Q\JALIT'I .' I WON1 
GIT \1-\E "A.. I DE~RIIE ! \ 
BILL WATTERSON 
E5t'HJf>...\..L'{ S\1--lCE ~c)I,J'~E. VSED Dr' \S MI~U\ES COM?LM~I~G A\30U\ \\. 


OF INTEREST 
DAVE KELLETT 

.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "-tu,"Verdi ana cGrowmg in snow 9 Resort lake near 
Milano 13 Roomy vehicles 15 "Have-day" 16 Own 17 Anagram of 
IRIDESCENT 19 Head of the 
classe 20 Free time 21 Anagram of 
RED TAPE 23Withdraw formally 
24 Classifier 25-gratia art1s 26 Colloid 
27 Camp dwellings 31 Bye-bye 33 Not too bright 34 Employers 35 Past 36 Anagram of 
RAIMENT 38 Rece1ved 39 Forgive 41 Ending for cash 
or cloth 42 Waller of song 43 Indo-European, 
once 44 Genetic in its. 45 Bridle part 46 Franco and 
Peter 
48 Anagram of ENISLE 51 Anagram of 
STAPLER 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


.. SPORTS 
pagel6 Wednesday, December 1, 1993 
Few doubts remain: 
Cotton pickin' Irish 
By JONATHAN JENSEN lion that comes along with a bid Associa1e Sports Edi1or to the Sugar Bowl. The Cotton Bowl pays a measly $3 million. So, where are you going to According to the coalition, a spend your New Year's? school does have the right to That's the big question that reject a bid for monetary rea­
has been circulating through sons. So West Virginia would go to 
• see IRISH COALITION the Sugar Bowl, and we would be stuck in frigid Dallas on New
RUMORS, page 12 
Year's Day. 

the minds of bowl-bound Notre The problem is that everyone Dame students ever since the knows that West Virginia would Irish's plans for a big Fiesta in not be rejecting the bid for the Arizona were scrapped by the money, they would reject the Boston College Eagles. bid because they know that a 
And the answer is...the Cotton victory over a sub-par Aggie Bowl in Dallas, for a rematch squad would not help them in against the seventh-ranked the polls. West Virginia and Texas A&M Aggies. coach Don Nehlen think they 
Now, before you throw your can still gain a split in the polls lemon pepper fries across the and a share of the national dining hall, here are the rea­championship by beating a re­sons why. The Cotton Bowl will spected Florida team in the get to offer an invitation first, Sugar Bowl. because they have the highest There is, however, still one 
ranked team going there. Cot­loophole, one small chance that ton Bowl officials have already we could still go to New Or­hinted that they would like to leans. 
have the highest ranked team If No. 9 Florida beats No. 15 The Observer/Chns We>rup play the Aggies in their Bowl. Alabama so bad the pollsters gladly rather have the Irish, cannot be officially given out would reject the Cotton Bowl West Virginia, however. has jump the Gators over the sev­and we would go back to New until the final polls come out bid, they have not done any­hinted that they will decline the enth-ranked Aggies, then the Orleans. this Sunday. thing officially, because the bids Cotton Bowl bid, because they Sugar Bowl gets to pick first. This scenario is a possibility, So although West Virginia would rather get the $4.15 mil-Everyone knows they would and that is why the bowl bids officials have hinted that they see BOWL I pagel2 

Saint Mary's dumped by Hope 
By MARY GOOD team is still looking for a win was a failure to reset defensive­Saine Mary's Spom Ediwr after they were defeated 88-69 ly in the transition. last night by Hope College. "Since Saint Mary's played a 
The Saint Mary's basketball The Belles' main problem lot of young people," Hope coach Tod Gugino said, "they had trouble adjusting getting back which gave us spurts." 
"We didn't hustle back on 
defense," said sophomore for­
ward Jennie Taubenheim . 
After a slow paced first half Hope led the Saint Mary's 37­
27. The pace picked up in the second half which aided Hope, according to Gugino. 
"We are used to a fast-paced game. The pick up in the sec­ond half worked to our advan­tage because we play ten play­ers," he said. 
Hope is simply a bigger faster team, Gugino said. 
"I saw some bright spots," said Saint Mary's coach Marvin Wood. 
Despite the trouble getting back, as the game progressed Saint Mary's adjusted defen­sively, Wood said. 
"Saint Mary's pressured up front really well which hurt us," Gugino added. 
Saint Mary's will be working harder offensively in practice, Wood said. The Belles will also be working to improve consis­tency and passing. 
"We definitely need to talk more on offense and defense,"

-
•
The Observer/Sean Farnan Taubenheim said. 
Belles senior Anne Mulcahy drives to the basket in Saint Mary's 88-69 loss to Hope College last night. 
• see BELLES I page 13 
Irish host Warriors, seek second win 
By AMY GRIFFIN high 16 points. Spans Wri1er The team looks for another strong defensive effort from 
The Notre Dame womep's junior Letitia Bowen, who basketball team faces sparked Notre Dame's defen­Marquette tonight at 7:30 in sive effort against UIC by the JACC. pulling down 11 rebounds and 
The Irish look for a tough adding six steals. Bowen lead battle against Marquette, who last year's squad in scoring broke Notre Dame's 16-game and rebounding with an aver­series streak last year, pulling age of 13.4 points and 8. 7 off a 66-62 victory in rebounds a game. Milwaukee. Freshman Beth Morgan 
The Irish are coming off a scored 10 points in the second 93-50 win over Illinois­half to help the Irish pull Chicago in their season opener towards their 93-50 victory. on Saturday. Five players for Morgan has replaced sopho­the Irish scored in double fig­more Stacy Fields, who is out ures to secure their first win. for the season with a broken 
"We need to stop their tran­foot, at the guard position. sition," said sophomore Carey Poor, who scored 14 points off The Irish hope to stop the bench against UIC. "If we Kristen Maskala, who aver­continue with our defense I aged 17.5 points last year, and think we can win it. They're a teammate Stephanie Krumrei, tough team. We're looking to who averaged almost eight pay them back for last year." rebounds a game. Maskala 
The probable starting lineup scored 28 points in the for the Irish in tonight's con­Warriors 87-68 victory over test includes three seniors: Minnesota. Lori Goerlitz was forward Tootie Jones, who perfect for Marquette from the scored 11 points and added field, hitting all five of her field seven rebounds and four goals and four three-pointers. assists against UIC, guard The Irish have an 11-1 Kara Leary, who dished out record against Marquette in five assists and had three games played on their home steals, and guard Sherri court. Notre Dame currently Orlosky, who had the team-holds a 17-4 lead in the series . 

Inside SPORTS 
NFL 


College Football College Football 
Surprise! Jacksonville 

Notre Dame denies 
Defensive back Antonio 
receives the 30th NFL 
rumors that it will leave 
Langham awaits an 
franchise over St. Louis, 
the bowl coalition follow­
NCAA ruling on his eligi­
Baltimore, and Memphis. 
ing the 1993 season.
bility for Alabama. 
see page #14 
see page #13 
see page #12 








