
Wednesday, September 15, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 13 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
· 
Clinton crusades for NAFTA 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
With three ex-presidents standing behind him, President Clinton signed supplemental agreements Tuesday that the White House hopes will over­come formidable opposition to establishing the world's largest free trade zone. 
During an elaborate East Room ceremony, Clinton and former Presidents George Bush, Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford attacked opponents of the North American Free Trade Agreement who they said are distorting the truth and playing on Americans' worst fears. 
Carter used the bluntest lan­guage, zeroing in on Dallas bil­lionaire Ross Perot, the agree­ment's most vocal critic, who has contended that it will put 
5.9 million American jobs in jeopardy as U.S. companies seek cheaper wages and lax enforcement of environmental and labor standards in Mexico. 
"Unfortunately, in our coun­try now, we have a demagogue who has unlimited financial resources and who is extremely careless with the truth who is preying on the fears and the uncertainties of the American public," Carter said, drawing a standing ovation from the crowd of NAFTA supporters. 
Perot spokeswoman Sharon Holman said the former inde­pendent presidential candidate would not respond to Carter's attack. "We're going to stay focused on the issues." she said. 
The 2,000-page main trade agreement was completed in August 1992 by the Bush Administration. It would remove virtually all barriers to trade and investment among the United States, Mexico and Canada over a 15-year period. 
Clinton demanded three sup­plemental agreements on enforcement of environmental laws, worker standards and sudden import surges to cor­rect what he saw as flaws in 


$2.5------------------­

$1oo--frP9-~--------1 $40---------------­
2----------­
80­
--
I 30 ----­eo­
40­

1 ·:~L--~~-t--:_:
\: 
.5­
20­
i 
0 
-
--: 0 
0­

1989 '90 '91 '92 ! 1989 '90 '91 '92 1989 

Merchandise trade between pact partners 
All figures in billions of U.S. dollars 

p 1!1 ~~·~· 
U.S. 
trade 


U.S. 
trade with Canada 


with Mexico 
Imports . 

Profiles of the NAFTA partners United States: Population: 248,709,873 (1990 est.) 


Gross Domestic Product: $5.1 trillion (2nd 114 1993) Gross National Product, per capita: $21,800 Literacy rate: 97% (1991) 
HI 
Canada: 

Population: 27,409,000 (1992 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $560 billion (1992) Gross Domestic Product, per capita: $20,433 (1992) Literacy rate: 99% (1991) 
I . 
··Mexico: 

• Population: 90,007,000 (1991 est.) . ... Gross Domestic Product: $236 billion (1990) 
· ··········· ····· Gross Domestic Product, per capita: $2,680 (1990) Literacy rate: 88% (1989) 
Source: U.S. Trade Representative, Bureau of AP/Wm. J. Castello Economic Analysis, Statistics Canada, The World Almanac and Book of Facts 1993 
the main agreement. 
Those supplemental agree­ments were signed Tuesday in separate ceremonies by Clinton and Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. Canadian Prime Minister Kim Campbell, who is facing a tough October election, signed the agreements without a public ceremony Monday night, her office said. 
The White House had most of the Cabinet on hand along with 13 governors, four mayors, var­ious business executives and 


Patton: Strife complicates African democratization 
By AMY SANTANGELO own view of what the democra­News Writer tization process in Africa en­tails, Fatton said. The Predatory Block uses its Rival parties competing for position in the state to promote 
power in emerging African na­its own interests. The mem­tions complicate the process of bers of this "party" believe in democratization, according controlled liberalization. Robert Fatton, professor at the Controlled liberalization entails University of Virginia. granting certain freedoms to 
This problem stems from the the people, while simultane­fact that these groups have ously keeping them under a varying ideas as to what is best fair amount of direction. for the African nation, accord­The Predatory Block cannot ing to Fatton who spoke at lec­exist as the one true form of ture entitled "Civility . Incivility, government because of its in­and Democratization: The definite position regarding de­Politics of Civil Society in mocratization and its struggleAfrica." to retain absolute power, ac­
The three main groups at­cording to Fatton. tempting to gain power are the The second "party" is known Predatory Block, the Middle as the Middle Sector. This Sectors, and the Popular Civil Society sect. Each one has its 
see AFRICA I page 4 
Canadian trade with Mexico 
Democratic and Republicans leaders from the House and Senate. 
Clinton, who was forced to p~ss his economic program without a single Republican vote, is counting on GOP sup­port to offset widespread defec­tions by liberals in his own party. 
The president said that those who opposed NAFT A were playing on the "fears and inse­curities that are legitimately gripping the great American middle class." 



SMC moves to change method of governance 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
An ad hoc committee has for­mulated a plan to change the governance of Saint Mary's College to a single Board of 
• see shortage I page 4 
Trustees with more power vest­ed in the laity, according to College President William Hickey. 
The official, detailed plan will be revealed in January 1994 specifically timed with the be­ginning of the College's sesqui­centennial celebration and will take effect during the 1994-95 school year if all legal and canonical aspects of the plan are worked out. 
Details of the plan cannot be discussed until the College and the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross officially an­nounce the plan. 
The committee established in January 1991 by the President of the Congregation, Sister Catherine O'Brien discussed options for the restructure for two and a half years before de­ciding on a plan. 
The committee was made up of Hickey, O'Brien, Vice President and Dean of Faculty Dorothy Fiegl, three additional members of the Congregation's General Council and four mem­bers of the Board of Regents. 
O'Brien formed the commit­tee to resolve the problems of governance and sponsorship of the College in light of the con­tinuing decline in the number of sisters in the Congregation. 
"Literally what we are trying to achieve really was not to just establish a new form of collabo­ration with the Congregation, (rather we were) reforming most of the religious-lay collab­oration," Hickey said. "Really wh::tt we are trying to achieve is a governance structure which would serve the (College) well 50 years down the road." 
The corporate restructure of the College will establish Saint Mary's as a separate corpora­tion which would continued to be sponsored, but not owned by, the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
A single Board of Trustees, responsible for all the business of the College, will replace the present two-tier Board of Re­gents. 
Under the present system, a smaller eight-person Administrative board which consists of all members of the Sisters of the Holy Cross splits the decision-making respon­sibilities with a the larger ap­proximately 30 member Board of Regents made up of one­third Sisters and laity. 
The new Board of Trustees will be larger and a set, but yet undetermined, ratio of Sisters will be members of the new Board. 
The revision of the bylaws puts Saint Mary's at the fore­front of the changes t~at Catholic colleges and universi­ties will be making due to the decline in the membership of all orders of priests and nuns nationwide, according to Hickey. 
"My opinion is that we're on the front end of at least what we're trying to accomplish with this type of collaboration," Hickey said. "I think most Catholic institutions will even­tually align to a plan that Saint Mary's is incorporating." 
One of the goals of the new board is to include more laity in discussions and decision-mak­ing, according to Joanne Mullin, director of communica­tion for the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"The plan is a way to assure and promote the continuation of the College even though the Sisters have a declining mem­bership," said Mullin. "The change is also partially because the sisters believe in the prin­ciple of Vatican II and training the laity. This is their effort to bring more laity into the gov­ernance of the College." 
see SMC I page 4 


'Sorrows' to spread AIDS message 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
"The Compassion of the Sor­rowful Mother," an AIDS sym­posium in honor of the feast of the Seven Sorrows of Our Lady, will be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium tonight at 7:00pm. 
The event, sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Uni­versity health Services, is the third part of the Blessed Mother Lecture Series. 
Coordinated by Dolores Tan­toco-Stauder of the Hesburgh 


Library and Fr. Thomas Mc­so that people will learn to be Dermott, director of special more cautious as well as to projects for Campus Ministry, bring compassion to those who the symposium is intended to suffer from AIDS," said Mc­expand conventional discussion Dermott. and awareness about the virus Although the past sympo­and address current efforts to siums have focused more on care for AIDS patients. teachings about the Blessed 
"The hope is to bring some Mother, Tantoco-Stauder and awareness about the epidemic McDermott decided to address AIDS because it is "truly one of the great sorrows of the pre­sent day," said McDermott. 
"AIDS is destroying families, communities, and countries. It is not enough to teach what the disease is all about," said Tan­toco-Stauder in a letter to Uni­versity President Fr. Edward Malloy. 
The symposium will feature five speakers on AIDS. 
•Fr. 
Ronald Raab, pastor of St. Joseph Parish and chair of the Religion Committee of AIDS Ministries, will speak about "Christ's Compassion Call: Lis­tening and Learning From the Many Stories of AIDS of Faith and Church." 

•Sr. 
Ethne Kennedy, a mem­ber of the Society of Helpers and associate director of AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist will dis­cuss "The Church Has AIDS: an 


see AIDS I page 4 

-~ -------~------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 15, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 
Police and 
media pull 


vanishing act 
Several questions have been raised about the priorities of the South Bend Police Department and the local media for the way they have han­dled recent crime-related incidents involving
Notre Dame and Sain.________ Mary's students. More specifically, stu­dents are asking why an incident such as this past weekend's S.U.D.S. raid of a student party, which led to 16 underage drinking citations, has received more coverage by the police and the media than Julie Barrett the continued rash of bur-As · t New Editor 
. . . ff SOCia e 5
glanes occurnng m o ­campus housing. 

Monday night's burglary of a Lafayette Square residence brings the total number of reported break-ins there in the past three weeks to six, not to mention several car vandalisms and attempted break-ins. 
Yet, despite the fact that one-fifth of the 30 student-occupied units have been burglarized, the local newspaper and television stations knew nothing about it until a reporter at The Observer brought it to their attention yesterday. WNDU-lV and the South Bend Tribune reported on the burglaries later that night. . 
At the same time, the S.U.D.S. bust was wide­ly publicized throughout the media on Sunday, the day after the incident occurred. 
The policy at theTribune is to report all rob­beries and only commercial burglaries unless there is a series of unusual or extraordinary break-ins in a residential area, according to Metro Editor Nancy Sulok. 
Ken Baier! of WNDU added that the police department is responsible for disseminati_ng such information to the media, yet the police did not make it clear to them that there had been a recent rash of burglaries at Lafayette. 
So the question remaining is why haven't these crimes been highlighted in the police reports? Isn't it unusual if not extraordinary that such a small residential development occu­pied solely by s~udents has been hit with such a large number of burglaries in such a short peri­od of time? • 
Both Sulok and Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent of ND Residence Life, said they do not believe that the situation is that uncommon. Every year students living off campus experi­ence the same instances of crime, they said. 
South Bend Chief of Police Ron Marciniak added that an estimated 60 to 70 burglaries were committed city-wide during the same three week period, making the six occurring in Lafayette less significant. . 
But no other residential complex within this group has had as many burglaries as Lafayette. 
For such a small area that Lafayette occupies, the number of crimes committed there is extremely unusual and highly extraordinary. 
If it wasn't, the assistant to the mayor o South Bend would not have been called into an emergency meeting with Chris Matteo, the owner of the townhomes, on Friday, Sept. 3, the day after the fourth break-in was reported, and extra police surveillance of the area added. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

JUDAY'S STAFF 
More European tourists fall victim to random violence in Florid~ 
MONTICELLO, Fla. 
Margaret Ann Jagger, bleeding from a bullet that grazed her chest and right arm, cried into the telephone, "He's dying! He's really dying! ... Please hurry!" 
The British tourist's boyfriend had just been fatally wounded at an interstate highway rest stop in northern Florida, the latest in a series of attacks that are threaten­ing the state's lucrative tourism industry. . 
Jagger, 35, and boyfriend Gary Colley, 34, who arnv~d Thursday in Orlando, pulled off Interstate 10 for a nap m their unmarked rental car early Tuesday. The rest area was well-lighted. There were other people around. 
Then two armed youths approached, knocked on the windows and demanded money. "They woke up and tried to back out and that's when they were shot," said Jefferson County Sheriff Ken Fortune. 
Jagger called 911 from a phone booth nearby. "And there was blood all coming out of his mouth and I think he's dying," she told an emergency operator. 
Colley, who lived with Jagger for about 12 years, was the ninth foreign tourist in Florida to be killed since October. Early Thursday, a German honeymooner driving an unmarked rental car from the Miami airport to his hotel was shot to death in an apparent highway robbery attempt. 
Although police said it appeared that Colley's killers were unaware he and Jagger were foreign tourists, Gov. Lawton Chiles suspended all tourist advertising for Florida -at home and abroad. 
The governor also ordered beefed-up patrol~ at the state's 48 interstate highway rest areas, deploymg 540 auxiliary officers from the Florida Highway Patrol, Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission and Marine Patrol. The officers have law enforcement powers as long as they remain in contact with police. 
The state also was exploring ways to hire private secu­rity for a permanent 24-hour presence at the stops. 
"We have to turn our outrage into determination," Chiles said. "Violence and brutality have no welcome mat in Florida." 
Kevorkian violates court order again 
REDFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian was arraigned Tuesday on a second charge of assisting in a suicide, this time in the death of a man who killed himself while Kevorkian was free on bond. 
District Court Judge Richard Manning released Kevorkian on $10,000 bail < with the condition that he not assist in . 
. 
any more suicides. Kevorkian waved to cheering specta­tors as he left the courthouse, but had 
1
no comment. His attorney, Geoffrey Fieger, said he was sure his client wouldn't be convicted. 
The latest charge came in the death Thursday of Donald O'Keefe. The 73-year-old bone cancer victim was the 18th person to die in Kevorkian's presence. 
Police, summoned by an emergency phone call, foun_d O'Keefe dead at his home with a mask and tube over h1s nose and mouth. A canister of carbon monoxide gas was nearby and Kevorkian was in the house, Police Chief David Parker said. 
The call came hours after Kevorkian was bound over for trial in last month's death of 30-year-old Thomas Hyde Jr. Kevorkian has not described what role he played in O'Keefe's death. . 
On Tuesday, Assistant Prosecutor Tim Kenny asked that Kevorkian be held on $250,000 bond. Fieger called that figure "vindictively, absurdly high" and. asked for a $1 bond. Kevorkian was free on $100,000 bail on charges in Hyde's death. 
Florida tourist killings 
Yesterday's slaying was the second such attack on aforeign visitor in less than a week 1n Flonda and the ninth withm ayear. 
Gary Colley and Margaret Ann Jagger, sitting in rental car at a rest stop, are approached by two men who demand money. 
Source: CNN. AP research 

World Trade Center trial jury selction starts 
NEW YORK 
The judge in the World Trade Center bombing trial started sorting through a list of 5,000 prospective jurors Tuesday, saying he doubted he could find anyone unfa­miliar with the case "if I went to a monastery." 
So U.S. District Judge Kevin Duffy told jury candidates to forget anything they've heard or read about the case -even the federal grand jury's charges against the four defendants. 
"At this point, the indictment in this case is good for making paper airplanes," Duffy told the first 50 or so jury candidates. , , 
"Something happened at the World Trade Center, Duffy said. "Exactly what happened and who was responsible can only be ascertained by a jury willing_ to listen to what the evidence is, not what the speculatiOn is.'' 
Security was heightened at the courthouse and at the Trade Center several blocks away, where six people were killed and 1,000 injured in the Feb. 26 blast. 
At the Trade Center, extra guards were in the garage where the bomb exploded and a police officer and his dog patrolled near the turnstiles of the nearby PATH train platform that was damaged. . . . 
The four Islamic fundamentalists born m the Middle East are charged with conspiracy and face a maximum penalty of life in prison without parole if convicted. Two other suspects are fugitives; a seventh has been severed from this trial for reasons that remain unclear. 


~,.r().~~~~ (f,,,,,~,~-·-.·.····=·-::=·.i::·-:.-=.-:..  ~  ~  
Showers  T-stonns  Rain  Aurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy  

VIa ABSOCIBIBd Press GraphJcsNet Cl1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 15.
Wednesday, Sept. 15 
Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



News Production John Lucas Ron Veldman Suzy Fry Carolyn Wilkens Sports Kathie Young Rian Akey Accent Viewpoint Kenya Johnson Mike O'Hara Graphics Lab Tech Brendan Regan David Hungding 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pres.s. All "'production righrs are reserved. 
......---r ..&....a... ............. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu·Wealher, Inc. Pressure 
H L a tSJ 0 81l 1) !:J. u
!Til ~ 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Chicago n 68 New York 84 65 Dallas 90 75 Parts 63 55 
H L 
Anchorage 58 38 Jerusalem 84 68 Philadelphia 85 64Athens 97 70 London 70 63 Rome 81 61AUanta 87 69 Los Angeles n 65 Seattle 75 47Boston 64 60 Minneapolis 68 57 Washington D.C. 99 82Cairo 90 79 

Moscow 50 38 

---------------~--------~-------------~---------------~-­
I 
Wednesday, September 15, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 l 
Beware ofthe tongue, for it is wet and liable to slip. 

BOG approves 1993-94 budget 
* * * 

By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance kicked off the 1993-94 academic year by ap­proving their budget at last night's meeting. 
"We tried to make the budget as fair as possible," said Student Body President, Mary Beth Wilkinson. "But we are also trying to play it safe with our money." 
The budget provided $40,000 for the Student Activities Board, which was a major increase over previous years. 
"It is only natural that we have allotted such a large amount o( this year's budget to the SAB because our main thrust was increasing the stu­dent activity fee and we want students to benefit from more activities and events," Wilkinson said. 
By allotting $15,000 to cam­pus clubs in general, BOG has estimated that each club will recieve approximately $200 each. 
"With this amount of money, the majority of the clubs on campus should be able to get 

BY POPULAR DEMAND 



Tom DeLuca 
Master Hypnotist 
Friday, September 17th , 9:00 p.m. Washington Hall, Tickets: $3°0 Available at LaFortune Information Desk 
Sponsored by Office of Student Activities 
L......_______ --­
what they want," said Director of Student Activites George anna Rosenbush. 
Rather than allocating a set amount of money to the indi­vidual committees of Student Academic Council, SAB and Residence Hall Association, the new budget requires commit­tees to submit proposals in order to recieve money. 
"This is a real motivator," Wilkinson said. "When good proposals are brought up, money will become available." 
In other business, the group discussed a paper recycling program which would entail working with the administra­tion or tapping into a Notre Dame program. 
BOG is also concerned with the future of the Detex security system to be installed in the residence halls and tunnels at Saint Mary's. 
"We need student input on the subject now," Rosenbush said, "in order to avoid any unpleasantries later." 
The need for a stronger com­munity service program was also brought to the attention of the group last night. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross 



BACK 
have proposed a plan for the 
Get the job done as best you can. edition of the Christian Service 
Nobody can ask more than that. Center at Saint Mary's. This 
* * * 

organization would be aimed at networking student volunteers 
Hope enables one to see the light at into the local community. 
the end of the tunnel. Faith keeps that The Sisters of the Holy Cross 
light lit. have access to many resources 
* * * 

in the community that would benefit the organization. 
If you must act like Romeo or Juliet "There needs to be a push on 
on a date, at least keep your voice our campus to really serve," 
down. said senior Melissa Whelan. 
* *· * 

"We have so much to give to A hero is no braver than anyonethe community." 
else.

The last item on the agenda He or she just remains brave awas the Keenan Review. Due little longer. 
to a negative response from many Saint Mary's students 
* * * after the Review last year, BOG 
Don't be a guzzling gasoholic. 
will reach out to students in an Walk wherever occasionally. 
effort to find out if the Review is something they want on the 
* * * campus in the future or if there 
Talent is simply the end product of
is a movement to replace it 
preparation and practice.

with a similar Saint Mary's tal­ent show. 
* * * Complete some work of great value. 
These and other issues will be Fine! And congratulations. Now builddebated further at up-coming on it.
BOG meetings. 
* * *

"We accomplished so many of Some oral cavities open by mistakeour year-long goals this sum­and talk that way. " mer," Wilkinson said, "which has enabled us to put our time 
* * * and money into issues that 
Common sense is thehaven't been explored yet." 

wisdom. 

Lafayette tightens security 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Lafayette Square town­house complex has instituted a 24-hour security patrol, effec­tive yesterday, in response to six burglaries at the student residences in the last three weeks, according to complex owner Chris Matteo. 
Two burglaries have been committed in the past five days, despite the two man patrol from 8:30 p.m. until 5 a.m. 
In addition to the increased security presence, the complex is currently upgrading each townhouse's alarm system by installing a mechanism that al­lows the systems' motion detec­tors to be operational while the occupants are sleeping, said Matteo. 

"We're doing everything we can," Matteo said. 
According to Matteo, an ar­rest warrant was issued 10 days ago for the man suspected of committing all of the burglaries, but police have been unable to apprehend him. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Partnership Association will be meeting with Chief Ron Marciniak of the South Bend police, David Shock, head of the crime prevention unit, and the tenants of the Lafayette Square complex tomorrow evening to inform tenants on the develop­ments of the investigations and get feedback. 
START YOUR FIRST DAY WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 
Bring your BSN to the 
Army and we'll assign a pre­
ceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be 
an experienced Army Nurse 
who will smooth your transi­
tion from school to practice. 
With advice, counsel on Army 
nursing procedure, or just by 
being a friend. With your pre­
ceptor's help, you11 meet your 
new challenges and rapidly 
move into a leadership role 
of your own. 
If you're a BSN candi­
date...or you are an RN with 
a BSN...you'll find the rewards 
and responsibility you're 
looking for in Army Nursing. 
Contact your local Army 
Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
(219)844-3990 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

sister of 
1 i I 
j 
-o~ 
~ 

~~ o:l I ,1 
o:l ;>
Q.lO -o .....() "' o:l 
~;>-. Q) ·-...~:: ..!<! 
~ ;:l 
"'
-o."' 
~~ . ; 
.D
ro...~:: ~ 
s .... ~ * 
~­-o~~ 
Q) -o 0 
* ·co
t\ji * ;:l·a 
Q) ·­
&€
uoQ.l 
._.o
~--~ 
t1) ::= ClJ 
..25:
~.D ..... 
Q)o
·-·-ce
s:=Q.) ;>'­
o o-'t:: 0 
~-<o..O.. .... Q) 
0.."'0 CZlb.Q
Q)Q) o:l
1-<0.. .... 
..=::: 
.::::;:::1 ;:::1 u 
u~
E:::i 
---o
-oQ.)
"' ..... 
·-0 * 
o..s * .8 -~ * 
Q)Q) 
...~:: ..... 
.... Q) 
0...1::
........ 
b.() b.() 
.5.5
::::;;....
Q.)o:l
ooo 




SMC begins teaching lecture series 
By CHERYL GILLILAND 
News Writer 
A lecture series entitled "Teaching" will begin today at Saint Mary's College. Keith Egan, head of the Center for Spirituality, will speak today at Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall at 12:15. 
Egan's lecture, "The Classroom: A Sacred Space," will explore the classroom as the center of the education sys­tem. His lecture is the first of five that will emphasize the importance of teaching and learning in the classroom. 
As Saint Mary's celebrates their sesquicentennial, these lectures can give students and faculty an opportunity to reflect upon what is most important in the college experience. 
"Learning is a sacred experi­ence," noted Egan, "The sa­cred, important things that go on in the classroom are what makes Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Catholic." 
"I feel that the students should be active in discussing what education is all about." 
Future lectures will look closely at women's experiences in the classroom, and will fea­ture speakers from Saint Mary's College and the South Bend school district. 
One of those speakers will be focussing on a different ap­proach in the classroom. 
According to Assistant Professor of Business Administration and Economics, Joyce Hicks, the lecture will concern bringing a Benedictan approach to the classroom. 
The lectures are open to the public, and will be held Wednesdays in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall at 12:15. 
H.A.O. Dinner 
Great Food being served at the CSC on Sept. 16 from 5,7:30 pm. 
--------------------~ ------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 1993 


SMC Shortage of nuns plagues Catholic Church 
continued from page 1 
Restructuring now, when both the College and the Con­gregation are strong, will allow the Sisters and the laity to have meaningful discussions about the future of the College, ac­cording to Hickey. 
"In the corporate structure we have now the laity some­times feel they are excluded from certain kinds of conversa­tions," he said. "I think it will really provide an opportunity for the lay representation to as­sume a much, much greater role and much more active role in defining the future of this in­stitution." 
The College corporation was restructured in 1972 after the collapse of the plan to merge with Notre Dame. It took its first steps toward establishing the College as a separate cor­poration in 1975 when it was incorporated separately as Saint Mary's College in the state of Indiana. 
Portions of the plan contain specifications for retaining the Catholic character of Saint Mary's, but the College and the Congregation are not yet ready to reveal those specifics. 
"Their were certain pre­misses which were held to be not up for discussion," Hickey said. "Those premisses were that we remain Catholic, re­main women and we remain in the liberal arts tradition. These were simply protected and not up for discussion." 
The .new by-laws will be pre­sented to the Board of Regents for review at their up-coming October meeting. 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 

The decline in membership in the congregations of sisters across the nation has been a problem plaguing the Catholic Church since the release of Vatican II, according to Sr. Patricia Riley, former assistant director of the Sisters of the Holy Cross membership office. 
"The declining membership is not something that is just hap­pening to the Sisters of Holy Cross," Riley said. "It is the di­rection that is happening in all communities." 
Riley said that the sisters have not had anyone enter the novitate in the last three years although they do have some women in formation. 
The order of the Sisters of St.· Francis used to see about 18 to 20 women enter the novitate each year, but the number has 
Mrica 
continued from page 1 

group believes in civil society as the watchdog to curb state in­fractions. The group strives to promote private society and the capitalist idea of the market system. 
The Middle Sector goes be­yond the Predatory Block by promoting the idea of Constitution with Constitutionalism which the Block party tends to ignore, he said. 
Neither of these groups goes far enough, however, to totally accept the idea of democratiza­tion and civil society. The one group that tries is the Popular Civil Society "party." 
This group employs the em­
L~i\gfellows 
September 17th and 18th 
SHOW TIME 
9:30p.m. 
Appearing at 

The Longfellows -Back by popularThe Midway Tavern demand, the area's hottest Alternative Band is comin~ your way. You don't
810 West 4th Street 

want to miss th1s show! Bring your ND
charge!
2 Blocks So. of Hacienda@ 100 Center 
St. Edward's Hall Players 
present 
Neil Simon's 
"Brighton Beach Memoirs" 
Open Auditions will be held on Wednesday and Thursday 
from 7-9 pm 
in the St. Ed's Chapel 
shrunk to about one or two a year now, according to Franciscan Sr. Dorthey Speckhals. 
Both sisters said that while membership continues to de­cline in the United States that vocations in third world coun­tries has been on the upswing. 
Various factors liave lead to the decline in membership in the orders. 
"A lot of values have changed in the U.S. and many don't see vocations to religious life as im­portant anymore," Sr. Dorthey Thurn of the Sisters of Mercy. "Also the role of the laity has been emphasized and needs to be, but that has made some­what of a difference." 
Speckhals agreed that the de­cline in religious vocations can­not be attributed to a single factor. 
"I think the secularism and materialism of our society has 
powerment of the poor, unem­ployed, and lower social class­es. Members of this group believe in speaking out against the evils of society in order to promote change. 
Politicians and rulers fear the words of the people, Fatton said. Once a civil society is adopted it will not be eradi­made an impact," she said. "Part of it is also due to a lack of understanding about reli­gious life. Young people don't know all the possible options." 
The decline is not discourag­ing for Riley though. 
"If the order were to die out then God's work has been ac­complished," Riley said. ''I'm not in charge of the order and the direction of it, God is." 
The declining membership does not mean that the orders have not actively tried to in­crease the numbers of women entering the novitate. 
The Sisters of the Holy Cross invite people into the convent to experience the prayer and com­munity as a means of gaining potential members, Riley said. 
"Vocations have always come from those who know the sis­ters," she said. "We just en­courage the sisters to invite people into their lives." 
In addition to personal con­tact with those in the commu­nity, the Sisters of Mercy and Sisters of St. Francis are also utilizing many other recruiting techniques. 
The Sisters of St. Francis have published newsletters di­rected at junior high girls and young women ages 18 and older. In addition they sponsor retreats throughout the year for women interested in religious life. 
A video that talks about the Sisters of Mercy is the most re­cent of all recruiting literature issued by the sisters. They have also established an asso­ciate membership program that gives the laity a short-term commitment to the ministry. 
The Sisters said that anyone interested in in religious life or information about religious life should contact their respective convents. 




AIDS 
continued from page 1 
Ecumenical Response." 

•Carol Seager, director of University Health Services will speak on "S.W.A.T., Students With AIDS Training Team." 
•Prof. 
Charles Rice of the Notre Dame Law School will address "Legal Discrimination." 

•Dr. 
Robert Devetski, an in­fectious disease clinician in South Bend, will speak about the "Changing Patterns of AIDS." 




Wednesday, September 15, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
ND alun1 Eli Shaheen, dead at 85 
Special to The Observer 
Funeral services were held today for Eli Shaheen, a long­time benefactor of both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. Shaheen, 85, died Sunday at his Sturgis, Mich., home following an illness. 
After earning his bachelor's and law degrees from Notre Dame in 1934 and '36, Shaheen taught as an instructor .at the University for five years. He served as an officer in the Army during World War II and was owner and President of Sutton Tool Co. in Sturgis from 1945­86. 
Known for his support of 
higher education, Shaheen served on the Saint Mau's College Board of Regents for 16 years and was financial secre­tary, treasurer and trustee of the Knights of Columbus at Notre Dame for more than 50 years. 
Shaheen made financial con­tributions that helped remodel the old SMC Library into what is now the Haggar College Center and Shaheen Bookstore. Saint Mary's dedicated the complex in 1983. 
Their gift also made possible 

the construction of the 
Shaheen-Mestrovic Memorial, a 
park on the west side of 
O'Shaughnessy Hall which in-
eludes three sculptures by 
Croation sculptor· Ivan Mestrovic. 
"(Shaheen) was agreat bene­factor of Notre Dame who gave very generously ... Notre Dame was very important to him and he wanted to pass ori the tradi­tion to others to enjoy, as well," said William McLean, associate dean of ND Law School. 
"(Shaheen) also worked be­hind the scenes to get students into Notre Dame and help pay their way," added Jed Eide, Shaheen's son-in-law. 
Shaheen is survived by his wife; two daughters, Christine Broussard of Beaumont, Texas, and Paula Eide of South Bend; ap.d eight grandchildren. 

HPC struggles for productivity 
By KATE CRISHAM 
News Writer 
Trying to keep the Hall President's Council from becoming an "unproductive 
HPC MEETING 
communications council" was foremost on the agenda at last night's HPC meeting. 
Carroll Hall co-President Gregg Behr spoke of his con­cern that HPC was becoming a less productive and influential organization on campus. 
"Last year's HPC eventually evolved into a political forum for many member's higher goals, and became a less cohe­sive body," said Behr. "Let's all work together to return the HPC to a strong leadership position on campus." 
In Student Senate matters, Student Body Vice-President Nikki Wellman spoke on the Senate's proposal to extend parietals to 1 a.m. on weekdays and 3 a.m. on weekends. Wellman also announced that the first floor of LaFortune will be open 24-hours on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays for a trial month. In addition, the entire basement will be open 24-hours, seven days a week. 
Walsh Hall co-President Kara Christopherson spoke on the task force to examine options for University Food Services. Some of these options include extending dining hall hours, meal plan options and the pos­sibility of putting a commercial food service in the Huddle. 
In other matters, Lyons Hall announced that their annual charity volleyball tournament will be held on October 3, while the Late Night Olympics have been scheduled for February 11. 
HOW TO FEED A 
STUDENT BODY FOR 



UNDER S3. 
All you care to eat Spaghetti with unlimited Breadsticks $2.99 
Every Sunday and Monday, dine-in only 

® 
Real Italian. Real Fast 

317 W. McKinley, Mishawaka/255-2551/52770 U.S. Rt. 33N/277-4008 
Attention: 
All Accounting Majors 
Upcoming Events: 
"Meet the Firms" Night 
7:00-9:00 p.m. Wednesday, September 15 Monogram Room, J ACC Beta Alpha Psi Members Only from 6:00-7:00 p.m. 


BDO Seidman Presentation 
Thursday, September 16, 7:00 p.m. 124 Hayes-Healy-Pizza & Pop Will Be Served Attendence is Mandatory for Beta Alpha Psi Members 

By DONNA CASSATA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate should reject President Clinton's nominee for Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman if the Army general hid his father's service in a Nazi Waffen SS unit, a Republican lawmaker said Tuesday. 
"If he's a party to deceit, that's a disqualifier," Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania told Defense Secretary Les Aspin at a congressional hear­ing. "We have to know what the facts are." 
In early August, Clinton nom­inated General John Shalikashvili to succeed General Colin Powell as com­
page 6 The Observer • MIDEAST NEWS Wednesday, September 15, 1993 
Gaza attacks complicate peace process 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Two Palestinians died in attacks on Israelis that injured one soldier and gunmen wounded three other soldiers Tuesday, less than a day after Israel signed an accord with the PLO. 
Some Palestinian and Israeli hard-liners oppose the peace agreement, and the Palestinian opponents have sworn to keep attacking Israeli authorities. 
The army said it would seal off the Gaza Strip on Wednesday at 2 p.m. (8 a.m. EDT) until 3 a.m. Sunday (9 
p.m. EDT Saturday) in an attempt to prevent anti-Israeli assaults during the Jewish new year holiday. 
PLO chairman Yasser Arafat pledged to curb attacks on Israel as part of the recognition accord that preceded the autonomy pact. But violence is expected to increase as Hamas and other radical Palestinian groups try to wreck the deal. 
Alaa Najjar, 19, ofGaza City, carried out an apparent suicide attack by blowing himself up when the electric gate of a Gaza police station opened for a car, the Israeli army and Palestinian reporters said. 
Also in Gaza. Abdullah Shehaber. also 19 and of Gaza City, was shot and killed by Israeli soldiers after he wound­ed a soldier at the observation post atop the municipal build­ing in Palestine Square, the army and Palestinians said. 
In the West Bank, shots fired at an army jeep badly wounded two soldiers and slightly wounded a third, Israeli reports said. The army spokesman office could not immediately confirm the reports. 
In other developments, about 10,000 people marched for five hours Tuesday in the West Bank city of Nablus in the largest rally yet in support of Palestinian self-rule. About 5,000 supporters also marched through Israeli-occupied Gaza. 
Jordan and Israel announced they had agreed on a frame­work for peace negotiations in Washington, as reports sprang up that many Arab and Islamic countries that have treated Israel as a pariah were ready to establish ties because of the Palestinian autonomy plan. 
PLO's Arafat charms Congress, Washington 
By RUTH SINAI 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Yasser Arafat set out Tuesday to charm America. In Congress. a bastion of anti-PLO sen-·,;· · :,.·1 '~ '·. 
timent for 20 ·, "~ .·~ • / l•1 
h . ·-··-~·~. " "' j
y~ars, e w_as • a;;·, . ,\Wgiven a gift .. ._~ ;";O. .. and told he 
· • . was "very • welcome."' And at the 
1

N a t i 0 n a Vasser Arafat 
Press Club he wooed .his audience with humor and pathos. 
His message was clear: "Let us speak for the future, not for the past." 
Arafat's past -as guerrilla leader and sometime-terrorist -seemed drowned in an out­pouring of goodwill. 
From the senators with whom he had breakfast, Arafat said he won promises that they would "do their best" to drum up financial aid for the Palestinian self-government about to be established in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
To be sure, the lawmakers also told Arafat they not only would have to find the money but would have to repeal laws that ban U.S. aid to the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
Senate Majority Leader: George Mitchell, D-Maine, said he had ordered "a complete review and identification" of anti-PLO laws. He then sent Arafat on his way with a small gift: a decorative pewter box. 
And House Speaker Thomas Foley declared Arafat had "a very engaging personality and was very well informed on all the issues involved." He said the Palestinian was "very wel­come here." 
"I love you," shouted a neigh­bor of the Rev. Jesse Jackson to Arafat when he called on the civil rights leader. Terrell Madison was rewarded with a bear hug from the Palestinian. 
It was all music to the ears of the man who had for 19 years, been denied entry into the United States and was planning a return later in the day to the United Nations, where in 197 4 he offered an olive branch in one hand and a pistol in the other. 
On Tuesday, the pistol was nowhere to be seen although Arafat still declined to condemn ongoing terrorism against Israelis in the Gaza and West Bank. Asked why, Arafat mere­ly said that in signing the mutu­al recognition agreement with Israel he had pledged to renounce terrorism. 
"We are looking to strength­en more and more the relation­ship with the American people and we are counting on you" to help, he told a National Press Club luncheon. 
Setting aside a prepared text, Arafat appealed to the emotions of his audience of journalists ­and other viewers watching on C-SPAN -saying: "Maybe some of you don't know what it means to be a refugee ... as myself, still far away of my country." and others, "home­less. stateless, even without an identity card." 

Israel, Jordan agree on framework for new talks 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The historic Israeli-PLO accord bore further fruits of peace Tuesday as Jordan and Israel signed a framework for negotiations and Morocco moved toward formal recogni­tion of the Jewish state. Vasser Arafat, once condemned as a terrorist, was warmly received in Congress. 
"We will continue now rapid­ly to break down the barriers between Israel and other nations," said an approving President Clinton. 
Jordan and Israel signed an "Agenda for Peace" at a rela­tively low-key State Department ceremony. The agreement lays out a framework for future negotiations. Ambassador Fayez Tarawneh, who signed for Jordan, said he hoped it would establish an agenda for discussions and lead to "a com­prehensive peace that will transform the lives of all our peoples." 
The product of painstaking diplomacy, the pact could lead to settlement of the border between the two countries and launch joint efforts to harness water resources, protect the environment and develop the Dead Sea region. Negotiations would seek a "mutual commit­ment not to threaten each other by any use of force" or terror­ism. 
While that ceremony took place, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was in Morocco for a surprise meeting with King Hassan II, who has long taken a moderate position toward Israel. The meeting was expected to lead to diplomatic relations. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Purchasing Agent 
Please submit a one to two statement of qualifications to Brian Kennedy by 5:00 p.m., Wednesday. If there are any questions, call631-5313. 
Rabin said it would not hap­pen instantly. "But the fact that from Washington we are com­ing to Rabat and are meeting with the king perhaps is anoth­er step forward in everything that is linked to establishing relations," he said. 
In Washington, a senior offi­cial said Secretary of State Warren Christopher had sent letters to some 10 U.S. embassies in Europe, the Middle East and Asia, suggest­ing the host governments "pro­vide political and financial sup­port" to the Palestinians. 
The official said appeals had earlier been made to the European Community, Japan. Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf states. 
Arafat, denounced in America for nearly three decades as a terrorist, said he was not ready to shuck his military uniform. But he was clearly relishing a new Washington role of good­natured statesman. 

I SPARTAN 
·.· ·. ;:;.:: :.:. :::: ·:.-: ·· ··.·.·-:...:;::Htf~:=~·:?:::::==:=·:-:.·-· 
:.,:.'•:Y_
\.::.:,.::.,:;::.:.,.::.. ...••...•.....~.·.·.·.·.·.·-·.·.:....~13~L 

.-:-:::::::;:::::::::;:::::::··
ca:Fiec·'s oN s 
F,,Rio~r~f:'sEPTE SJEPAN~O ~~ 
8:0Q.. PM .:, 

~~~ SPONSORED BY ~·-.,... 
j~ ~ ~~-~.::::> 
-t .1ft' .... 
• 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co. SC 
TAX TECHNOLOGY GROUP Career Opportunities for Computer Science, MIS majors CAPS minors 
The University Club Main Lounge Wednesday, September 15 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
Officies in Chicago, Illinois & Sarasota, Florida 
Equal Opportunity Employer 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 15, 1993 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in:Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .........•.......... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ........•................ Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 

Advertising Manager.................... .Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director................................ Brendan R~gap Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EditorNiewpoint Bwiness Office Sports News/Photo 
BONG MIQUIABAS 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  
631-4541  Day Editor/Production  
631-5313  Advertising  
631-4543  Systems/OTS  
631-5323  Office Manager  

631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 

Dialogue about campus intellectual debate 
l-r A,N'-r EA'S~ To SwALLow .. 

One evening, after bloating myself on another secret recipe of the dining hall's, I walked back to the dorm with a friend of mine and remarked that intellectual debate at Notre Dame is. at best weak and at worst nonexistent. 
"I don't believe that," my friend objected. "We talk about important stuff all the time." 
Just then we passed by a friend's room, his eyes fixed on the television screen. Somewhere in the back of the room, we heard a disembodied voice yell. 
"Yeah, baby, that's it!" Curious, we entered. "What's going on?" I chimed. 
"Shut up, I've only got a few more lives," our friend growled at me. 
"Don't mind him," the previ­ously disembodied voice emerg­ing human assured me, "he's never been to this level before." 
My friend and I stepped back into the hall and continued our conversation. 
"You see what I mean. people care more about Nintendo than real intellectual debate," I explained. 
"Well, you're just basing that opinion on this one instance. Believe me, if you get people interested, they can say a lot of interesting things on some important stuff," my friend replied. 
Moments later, a gaggle of Notre Dame ladies walked by us with yo-creams in hand. We couldn't help but listen in on the tail-end of their conversa­tion. 
" ... and, it was like, if she 
couldn't tell me to my face, I 
DOONESBURY 

was like, she shouldn't have you go people are spending told her anything. Do you know their time on petty things. I what I mean?'' guess it's good to have your fun 
The other yo-creamers nod­and gossip from time to time, ded in agreement. but it seems to smother intel­
Then, as her voice trailed off, lectual debate or any interest in ­we could hear her whine. "I it." never liked her anyway, she's ... .like .... so fake ... " My friend appeared to be los­
ing interest himself as he My friend turned to me and whirled around to greet anoth­smirked. er friend of ours who happened 
"You see what I m saying?" I to be walking by. stated confidently, "everywhere "S'up, dudes?" 
"Hey, what do you think?" I asked him, "Do Notre Dame students get involved in intel­lectual debate and that sort of stuff?" 
Our friend answered quickly, "Of course, man. I m always impressed in class when peo­ple, like, you know, go on these tangents. They start talking on these, like, higher levels." 
I interrupted. "We know about that. We're all pretty intellectual in class, but we're wondering if you think people take that attitude outside the classroom." 
He looked puzzled, "Well, I don t know about that, but I do know that a bunch of us are going off-campus later tonight to get totally blasted. Right about then, we all start philoso­phizing pretty well." 
He chuckled. My friend and I stared confusedly at one anoth­er, not sure whose point he had proven. 
"Later, dudes." 
"Later." 

My friend half-heartedly con­ceded, "I guess you're right. Notre Dame students prefer to have fun in other ways. not mainly by talking about intel­lectual stuff. Which doesn't mean that we don t talk about other important stuff." 
"Like what?" I asked expec­tantly. 
"For example, a few friends and I are going to find out what happens to Jerry tonight on Seinfeld. You wanna come?'' 
With that we zipped down the hall, disappearing into a room of television buddies. 
Some Notre Dame traditions 
die hard. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Degradation 
of pop star 
abhorrent 

Dear Editor: 
In the Monday, Sept. 13 edi­tion of The Observer you pub­lished an article listing the richest entertainers including Oprah Winfrey, Steven Spiel­berg, and U2. The listing also placed Prince at number five and this troubled me greatly. By calling the entertainer Prince instead of the symbol which is his legal name, The Observer showed a lack of sen­sitivity. This lack of regard makes me wonder if I'll some­day read an article on Cassius Clay and not Muhammad Ali, or Lew Alcinder instead of Ka­reem-Abdul Jabbar. I hope in the future you will show some more sensitivity to individual rights. 
WAYNE GOVEIA 
Alumni Hall 


GARRY TRUDEAU · QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IAJUL., IT /VttANS INT£36RATIN6
SO !A/HAT !3XACTZ-Y /?0 I 
7H&-[l()f<MS ANI? 7Hf3 /?ININ6
Mt/W 8t''/JE.5136RE64TION"? 
ROOM TABtE.S. ITMEANS Offfl­
WHAT [)(}f35 ITME3AN FO/<. 
/N5 7HE !37HNIC CtNTERS ANO
YOUA5 57lJ{}£NJS H&R£ ~ 
· R<ATERN!T!ES, MA/<JAK3 7HI3R CJJf-.7VRAL. /JNP .WAL.. OProR­71JNfTII33 AVA/LAB/,[; 7D AIL! 
!3UT I'Ve 
At/<CAI?Y 60TMY 
tNCIAVE3 
A5516NM!3NT/ 
"The day is coming when 
a single carrot, freshly observed [in a painting], will set off a revolution." 
Paul Cezanne Artist 




Consumers are the backbone of the nation 
Dear Editor: 
This is a response to Stephen Zavestoski's column (The Ob­server, September 14) head­lined "Poor habits fuel deca­dence." The purpose of his col­umn, as he clearly stated, was to inform Notre Dame students of "the absolutely ridiculous lives" we lead. If Coca-Cola and McDonald's did drop off the planet, as he suggests would be a great benefit to us, we would lose countless assets from our society. These companies pro­vide many jobs for people all across the country and the rest of the world. Aside from the economic benefits that these companies bring to our society, they give us satisfaction. No­body "needs" a Coke or a burg­er, but we buy them because we like them and enjoy the effects we receive from con­suming them. 
Why is it so terrible to eat a hamburger in the dining hall? Does Mr. Zavestoski realize that the leather weave belts he also condemns have their origin at the same place as those evil hamburgers? They are from cows, animals bred as a resource for human nourish­ment and other uses for human prosperity. 
We are a nation of con­sumers. If we were not, we would be on the same level as any third-world country. Why do we shop at the malls that he claims "destroyed American inner cities?" Because these malls and outlets are more competitive, affordable, and give more satisfaction to the consumer, than any locally owned stores in South Bend. 
In today's world, firms must be competitive nationally and internationally to survive. Cer­tain institutions have recog­nized this simple truth, and un­fortunately, others like Mr. Za­vestoski have not. If a locally owned, or any company, wants to succeed in the economy, they 
cannot be forgotten 
Dear Editor: 
As I was enjoying my lunch at the dining hall during the "Year of the Customer," I became discouraged when I realized it's not the "Year of the Student." 
The student lottery allotment for Michigan football tickets numbered 150. I realize the University only receives around 5,000 tickets and I only pay $20,000 a year. Something about this experience tells me University priorities are not where they should be-with the students. 
More importantly, an increasing number of my peers are being forced to leave school for financial reasons, while many of those here are in debt to their eyeballs. Yet despite these realities, my par­ents and I received a letter saying tuition only increased 
6.9 percent (inflation was about three percent). Continue this low (?) rate for 25 years and students will be paying over $100,000 per year. 
I hope the Notre Dame Administration does not aim towards this goal. However, annual excuses like "the increase goes towards student investment" will make this sce­nario a reality. 
Please do not get me wrong; I enjoy my experiences here very much. However, I fear that in some respects, Notre Dame is forgetting student interests and ignoring the financial strain caused by annual seven percent increas­es. If this is remembered, maybe next year can be the "Year of the Student." 
JEFF LUNGREN Dillon Hall 

must work for it, and can not rely on the pity of naive con­sumers. 
I am an accounting major, and proud of it, because as Mr. Zavestoski said, I will hopefully become prosperous in a short time after graduation. He can'-t criticize me, or any other busi­ness major, for desiring suc­cess. And why shouldn't we donate money to Notre Dame? This school has done a lot for many students and me, and hopefully someday I will be able to reciprocate in a monetary way. If Mr. Zavestoski does not agree, maybe he should find a school that is good enough for him and that meets his qualifi­cations. Maybe he is an English major. Even though I would not choose this particular area of study, I can still respect what­ever he and every other non­business major chooses to study because that subject is his/her passion, something different for all of us. 
I think it would greatly bene­fit Mr. Zavestoski to take an in­troductory economics course so he can begin to learn about the actual commercial world and separate it from his ideal dreamland. Even after reading his letter I am still going to drink Coke and eat at McDon­ald's. Why? Because I want to. As he suggested, I considered the implications of my con­sumption of these products and I realize that every dollar I spend helps the economy and the people who live and work in it. 
Hopefully he will be able to 
/get a job right out of college and will not have to interview with any "ridiculous" person who majored in business. I'm sure though that the interview­er would love to know what a ridiculous life he or she leads. In the eternal words of Elwood Blues, "Don't yell at me ... Try not to be so negative all the time. Why don't you offer some constructive criticism?" Mr. Zavestoski must learn the way that the real world works, for until he understands, he will be at a great disadvantage to those who already do understand. He would be doing himself a great favor by gaining this knowl­edge, and will do the rest of the world a great favor by stamping out his own ignorance. 
JAMES P. TRUOG 
Dillon Hall 
.. ­

ACCENT 
u .. z . & a a a 
Wednesday, September 15, 1993 page 9 
One day little Susie wok--------1-------------­

What Little 
Susie forgot 
to do 

up very late. In fact she woke up so late, she had to rush in order to get herself ready for the day. In all this chaos, Susie forgot to do a few menial yet important things throughout her day. 
As she was getting ready in the morning, Susie forgot to sing in the shower. She for­Kenya Johnson got to make funny noises as Accent Editor she gargled. She forgot to look in the mirror and tell herself "I love you". She forgot to call her boss and give him the respect of knowing she would be late. 
On the way out of the door, Susie forgot to smell the roses. She forgot to watch the sun rise over the mountains. She forgot to leave the mailman a cookie. And she forgot to help an older lady cross the street. 
Susie kept forgetting all these things that were usuaslly so important to her and to others. 
Susie forgot to over-tip a waitress. She forgot to tell a clean joke. She forgot to be the first to say hello. She forgot to smile at a child. 
As the day went on, Susie forgot to give an unexpected gift to someone she loved. She forgot to say please. She forgot to say thank you. 
Susie forgot to buy lemonade from the kids on the corner. She forgot to have a firm handshake. She forgot to look people in the eye. She forgot to return a car with the gas on "F". 
That wasn't all. 
Uttle Susie forgot to pet the stray dog. She for­got to wave at the kids on the school buses. She forgot to feed a stranger's expired parking meter. 
Susie forgot to forgo a grudge and to mend a quarrel. She forgot to seek a long lost friend. Susie forgot to dismiss suspicion and replace it with trust. 
She forgot to write a love letter. She forgot to share some treasure with friends; or with strangers. Susie forgot to encourage youth. She forgot to manifest her loyalty in word and deed. She forgot to keep a promise. 
Susie forgot to laugh. And she forgot to laugh a 
little more. She forgot to create laughter. 
Things only got worse. 
Susie forgot to forgive an enemy and apologize 
when she was wrong. She forgot to examine her 
demands on others. She forgot to think first o 
someone else. She forgot to appreciate, to be 
kind, and to be gentle. 
Uttle Susie just couldn't remember anything. 
She forgot to take up arms against malice. She 
forgot to decry complacency. Susie forgot to 
express her gratitude. She forgot to have faith. 
TO HONOR AND REMEMBER 
ND's Arnold Air Society commemorates 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent writer 

In 1970, during the Vietnam con­flict, the plan of Navy Commander Michael G. Hoff went down over Laos. As a means of remembering her hus­band and lessening somewhat her grief, Mary Helen Hoff created the banner of the missing man, the now familiar black and white image of a man's silhouette against a guard tower and barbed wire. 
With its sponsorship of POW/MIA Awareness Week, the Notre Dame chapter of Arnold Air Society is also doing its part to remember Michael Hoff and those like him. 
From September 12-18, a variety of events and symbolic gestures are planned by AAS, which has a twofold 
purpose throughout the week: to honor and remember servicemen and women who are missing in action or prisoners of war and to increase pub-lie awareness and understanding of this painful issue. 
Each day this week, the POW/MIA flag designed by Mary Helen Hoff will fly with the American flag on the South Quad flagpole. 
On Friday, Sept. 17, at 4:30p.m., at 
this same flagpole, Brigadier General Robin Tornow (ret.). former 
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~telrs on 
around the country. 
honored as Cadet of the Year 
She forgot to welcome a stranger into her heart. By GERALDINE She forgot to gladden the heart of another's. HAMILTON 
Susie forgot to take pleasure in the beauty and Assistant Accent Editor the wonder of the earth. She forgot to keep her­self free from the anxiety that accompanies worry. She forgot to live now, rather than in the For Cecelia E. past. Susie forgot to seek out experiences that are Schmalbach. football new and unfamiliar. games, socializing with 
Susie forgot to speak of her love; to speak it friends, ROTC events and again; and to speak it still once again. medical school applications And after all this, Susie forgot even more before were all set aside as ~the she went to sleep. traveled to Washington D.C. She forgot to call her mother. She forgot to this past weekend to count her blessings. She forgot to say her receive the Air Force prayers. Association's (AFA) On this one day, Susie forgot what life was all Outstanding Cadet of the 
about and how wonderful it could be. 
Interested in writing for Accent? Already signed up to be an Accent Reporter? Whatever the case may be, 
You 're Invited: 
Accent Reporter meeting and training sessions Wednesday, Sept. 22 7:30p.m.; 3rd floor LaFortune 
Year Award for 1993. 
Schmalbach, a senior pre-professional studies major from Oreland, Pennsylvania was selected from 1700 ROTC cadets from across the nation. 
The first step in the rigor­ous selection process was to be nominated as a repre­sentative from a college or university's ROTC detach­ment. The next step was to be chosen from one of the five regional divisions to compete on a national level. the final step in the award selection process. 
In the national competi­tion, whose criteria consists 
POWandMIAs 

The POW/ MIA flag Mary Helen Hoff created in honor of her husband. 
Commandant of Air Force ROTC for the nation, will speak, followed by a flyover by two A-10 Thunderbolt attack planes. 
Other events include a special mass of prayer and remembrance at the 
Grotto on the morning of Sept. 16 and the raising of the POW/MIA flag before the start of the NO-Michigan State game, followed by a moment of 
silence for the POW and MIAs.
Ar ld Ai s · · Ai F 
no r ociety IS an r orce ROTC service organization with chap-
Each year a different service project is chosen , which is then dealt with individually by each chapter. 
This year the Society has devoted itself to helping children. T.G. Aranda, Arnold Air Society Commander for the Benjamin D. Foulois Squadron, says that the Society plans to start a tutoring pro­ject, as well as the continuation of its work with the Logan Center and the children in the South Bend Shelter for the Homeless. 
Another mission of Arnold Air Society is to promote understanding and awareness of the POW/MIA issue. 
As of today, the United States lists 2,264 American citizens as "unac­counted for" as a result of the Vietnam conflict. About half of these are known to be dead, but the situa­tions of the other half are still unknown. 
Not since April 1973 has a missing 
U.S. serviceman or woman emerged alive from captivity in any southeast Asian nation. Still, the families of those missing continue to pray, deal­ing each day with the heartache which comes from the uncertainty surrounding the fates of their loved ones. 
23 years later, in 1993, the where­abouts of Navy Commander Michael 
G. Hoff are unknown. 
of ranking in the top ten percent of one's academic class, ROTC participation, professionalism and leader­ship skills, Schmalbach, out of 138 Air Force ROTC cadets from units nation­wide, won. 
At the annual AFA National Convention in Washington n..c. Schmalbach was honored for her achievements with a special AFA dinner. 
As a member of the Airforce ROTC program at Notre Dame, Schmalbach served as a Commander of the Benjamin D. Foulois Squanold Air Society. In this capacity she was responsible for the unit's strong support of the POW/MIA issues in Michiana and organized the unit's work with both the Logan center and South Bend's Center for the Homeless. 
Besides her ROTC activi­
ties, Schmalbach is a leader 
on campus and in the com­
munity. She is involved in 
tutoring genetics, interhall 
softball, working as an 
emergency room volunteer Schmalbach, a senior ROTC member, traveled to Washington D.C. last weekend to receive her award. 
and is a Pasquerilla East the fact that I am a female Resident Assistant. has not been an obstacle or 
"My winning the award a concern. I work with says a lot about Notre extremely professional and Dame," said Schmalbach. "I talented people," said got where I am now Schmalbach. "When I because of the training I approach a task, I focus on got here and from the help simply performing my my classmates gave me." absolute best." 
And to further make that As for her future plans, point that she has immense Schmalbach is in a unique respect for her classmates, situation in that she will Schmalbach said that gen-put her ROTC assignment der has never been an issue on hold while she attends between her and her fellow medical school on a Armed cadets. Forces Health Professions 
Up to this point in ROTC, Full-tuition Scholarship. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer accepts classifoeds every business day from 10 a.m. 10 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All class&fieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September I 5, 1993 

GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  I NEED 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE  NEED MSU GA'S  
NOTICES  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT.  CALL MIKE AT 634-1862.  ANGIE 273-5805  NEED 1 PITT GA. x3533 ·joe.  THINKING ABOUT SERVICE NEXT YEAR?  
$210,$235. EAST RACE AREA.  WHY WORRIED FOR I D'S ?  COME TO THE POST-GRAD  
Experience the ultimate of all  JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444.  NEED 2 OR 3 MSU TICKETS.  MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK 4  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  FAIR!  
sports-SKYDIVING! Train with  WILL BUY OR WILL TRADE 2  SALE. CAUL 277-7876.  TICKETS MSU OR BOOKLET  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30TH  
Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  PITT TICKETS. (412)741-4059.  271 19 98  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON·  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump  NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  I need 6 Mich-State GAs!!  CERNS  
Course, with student tO. West  271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  Paul 273-5972  HAVE PITT GA'S TO TRADE OR  7-10PM  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­ MACHINE.  NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL  SELL FOR 1 MICH. ST. TIX.  OVER 40 PROGRAMS REPRE­ 
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ HOME NO GAMES  KEVIN x1230  SENTED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH  
ated. One hour North of South  KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAK·  CALL AARON X1868  IHEYI  INFORMATION!  
Bend. (616)628-4892  FAST located 23 miles south of  $Need 2 stud. tix-any game$  -PLEASE HELP- 
Notre Dame on route 23, on Koontz  Profanely Wealthy Notre Dame  $Katie 273-6324$  SENIOR RAP-UP GROUP  
Typing  Lake, south of Walkerton, Indiana 4  Fanatic Needs 2 Pitt GAs.  NEED ONE GIRL'S STUD. PITT  SIGN-UPS AT THE  
287-4082  rooms, full breakfast· week-end  Call Pat at x1550  HELP I  TICKET FOR VISITING BEST  CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­ 
getaway  $$$Need 4 Pitt GA'sll  FRIEND  CERNS  
•••••••••••11'11'#'11'11'11'11'#'#'11'  219-586· 7090  call Katie 273-6324$$$  DAVE-1436  DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1  
ATTENTION ALL HISTORY  DESPERATELY NEED 1 FSU TIC  
MAJORS  BED & BREAKFAST IN HOME OF  WILL OFFER MY ROOMMATES  WANTEDIIIIIIIIIIIII  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  
Don't fortgetto attend the Welcome  SAINT MARY'S STUDENrS PAR­ SERVICES ... X4953 ASK FOR  GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  
Back Picnic on 9/15 @  ENTS. CLOSE TO STADIUM.  KATIE OR WENDY  3-4 G. A.'s  GA:s 2773097  $  
5:30 on the green between Zahm  CALL 258-7935.  
& Stanford. Rain location is In  I need 2 MSU tixl Lisa x 2569  u.s.c.  $$$$NEED GA's-ALL HOME$$$$  SHORT ON CASH?  
Zahm's basement.  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES·  october 23 (fall break)  $$$$GAMES. Steve x1217$$$$$  
ND/SMC EVENTS  I'm sorta rich and very desperate.  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  
TOASTMASTERS  (219) 291-7153  Need Mich St. tlxl Call Darren at  call:  I need Msu Tix  1% interest  
INTERNATIONAL KICK-OFF  287-8090  2725  Will pay cash or trade lor  $10-$250 loans  
Wed. Sept. 15 at7 pm Haggar Parlor -SMC  FOR SALE  Tickets wanted-4-USC or Pitt game.  $NEED$  Pitt GA's  John 273-4119  STOP BY t1:30-12:30 mon.-lri.  
Come join usllll  Call M. McCarthy 215-471-6241  MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS  $$1 need a guy's student ticket for  O'hara Lounge, Lafortune  
WORD PROCESSOR PANASON­ CALL JOHN AT X1227  the Michigan St. game ASAP.  (next to info. desk)  
ILOST & FOUND I  IC W-1510, $250 EXCELLENT CONDITION 289-2537  SWM, 19, despratley seeks 2 GA's for the B.C. game. If you can help, please call Ken at x4245.  I NEED 2 PIT GAS $$ 'rents are paying $$  Call Bridget at4015$$ Will Pay ZANY Amounts of CASH  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  $  
call jim at 273-5823  for  5 F.S.U.  GA'S  Au Paul Shoaps ­ What's up with  
LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM  ALARM SYSTEMS; CAR, HOME  Need MSU GA's  CALL 273-6588 Jocelyn  Ihe eye makeup??  
FROM A NECKLACE-VERY  AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR  x4519  FSU STU NEEDED$$$2448  
IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF  INFORMATION CALL JASON@  
FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777.  237-9702.  Need 2 Ga's for Pitt game. Please  #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  Along came Wild Billy with his  
Call Will x3080  friend G-Man,  
Lost: Silver colored Seiko man's  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  Help! I need lour tickets to the  All duded up lor Saturday night ...  
watch at NW !-ball game. Engraved  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  USC Stud. Ticket for sale • best  Boston College game..•.  
on back: Love, Helen 2-23-88.  Have 2 Pitt GA's. Will trade for BC  offer will get it.  Join the ND/SMC Ballroom  
Great Sent. value. Call John collect  '89 TOYOTA Corolla OX Wagon.  or FSU. Alan x1933  Call Kenya at x4341 or x4553  If you would like to make a hot  Dance Club!  
@ 312-587-1768  Excellent condition. 5 speed,  babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at  Starting this Thursday 8:00·9:30  
power steering & brakes, A/C, FM  Alumni needs 2 GA tix 4 Mich St,  634-2703...  attheStepan Center  
LOST: silver cross on leather  cassette, roof rack. 78k mi. $6400.  Pitt, & Fla St. Will pay top $$. Call  Ques? Call Karen 4·211 0  
choker, great sentimental value,  Call (219) 277-4422.  Susan at X1285.  NEED GA'S FOR USC,FSU & BC  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#  Daniells 284-4061 or  
If found please call x4906  CALL NICK X1777  Laurie 4-3490  
1990 NISSAN 240 SX, 5-SPEED,  NEEDED: 2 Pitt G.A.'s  
LOST-OPAL PENDANT  LOADED, 13,000 MILES, MINT  Call ELISSA x4982  TOP 10 REASONS TO COME  
PLEASE PLEASE CALL 4248  CONDITION. $11,000. 271·1839.  will trade 2 PITT GA's lor 2 FSU  see the Chicano Secret Service,  
I NEED MSU STUD TIXI!I  NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS. WILL  GA's. 233-5130.  
'89 Sentra  Mike x4-1103  PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR GOOD  ADOPTION IS LOVE  
Lost a disk-case with four 3-1/2in.  38,000 miles  excel. cond.  SEATS. CALL SCOTT AT 271­ Loving Indiana medical profession­ 
disks, on 9/6 (Mon), between  service records  $5490  NEED PITT GA'S  9740.  als eager to adopt newborn.  
DeBartolo and the Golden Dome  call631-6414  X232-3807  i will buy your std. ticket bklets. call  MedicaVLegal paid. Confidential.  
(prob'ly in 331 DeBartolo). The  NEED USC GA'S, WILL TRADE  mike at233·5130  Call our home toll free to hear all  
disks are labeled "me." "myself,"  1 00% pure cashmere $95 shawls,  MSU GAs WANTED! AMY x4813  FOR BC TIX. CALL JIM @ 289­ about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224­ 
"1." and "fonts." Very important to  $195 twin blankets, $250 queen  6648.  2429.  
me, please helpl Call287-7696  1-800-428-7825 X303.  I NEED 3 GAS & 1 STUD  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 1  
if you've found them.  FOR PITT CALL 4248  $$$$$$$ HELP! NEED 1 PITT GA  FSU GAl Call Sean@ x1223  
MICHIGAN STATE STUDENT TIX  X3650  CHINESE PERSON NEEDS PART·  
FOR SALE. WE HAVE THREE.  NER TO HELP PRACTICE SPEAK·  
LOST:"1928' cross necklace on s  YOU NEED SOME OR ALL. WILL  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR  Need 2 Fla. St. GA's  HAVE 2 GA EACH HM GM  lNG ENGLISH SKILLS. CALL 631·  
quad 9/10 call2344  DEAL. CALL BRIAN X3043  NO -MICH. ST. GA TIX. CALL  Best offer-call T J 232-5030  TAKE BEST OFFER  6277. WILL HELP WITH CHINESE  
JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M.  LANCE 271-1681  IN EXCHANGE.  
~-w;-~_T_E_D_  __.II  TICKETS  ALUM WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO  I STILL NEED  'FALL BREAK CAMPING TRIP'  
OR FOUR TICKETS TO ANY OR  usc  I need GA's for MSU and Florida  INTERESTED IN HIKING IN THE  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  ALL OF THE FOLLOWING HOME  FSU  St.! I  -call Kathleen 273-8562.  GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS?  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  TIXS.272-6306  GAMES: PITTSBURGH, USC,  GAs  GO TO ST. EDS TV RM.  
BREAK TRIPSI SELL ONLY 8  FLORIDA STATE, BOSTON COL·  288-5282 KYLE  Need 3 MSU GA's; will pay top $$  THURS. 9/16 AT 7:30 OR CALL  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS  LEGE. CALL BILL HOGAN  call Brian at 634-3314  CHRIS 4-1665  
& PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  (OFFICE) 217-782-6995  4 SALE PITT USC FSU BC  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800·  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  (ANS. MACHINE) 217-698-9267  STUDENTS 232-3736  NEED GA'S FOR MSU AND PITT.  
678-63861  JANE AT 1·800-264-3278.  JAY X1534  
WANTED: 2-4 TICKETS FSU/ND  ~  
Yesterdays Food & Spirits,  NEED G.A.'S-3 PITT, 4 USC, 4  1-800-524-5999  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST  
Granger, IN, hiring lor: servers. bar·  FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe@ 1613.  MATT@ 232·3870  SELL STUDENT TICKET MICHI­ 
tenders, line cook. Exp. pre!. but  Will trade MSU(8) and BC(6) tix for  GAN STATE  Over 600 students skipped one  
not nee. for info call272-7017  Will give first-born son for four USC  Southern Cal. Call631·6305 or  CALL OLGA 4-1290  meal per week last year.  
tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob  291-4240.  The results? Over $12,000  
TRAVEL FREEl CANCUN,  at 273·0620.  NEED 4 MICH ST. GAs. I CAN  donated to hunger relief.  
JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADREI  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSUI$  BUY OR SELL YOU 40 TIMES  Think about it. Why not help us  
SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  X4355  OVER, SO MONEY IS NO  NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S  make it $15,000 this year?  
PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS·  272-7233.  OBJECT. CALL JOE RUSSO AT  Tony x3327  Every student counts.  
SIONS/SERVICEI SUN SPLASH  234-6306.  Sign up this week at the dining  
TOURS 1-800-426-7710  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO  halls, or call x4-4253 and leave  
277-1659.  PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$.  NEED 2 MSU GAs. CALL KERR I  I really need 4 USC G.A.s ­ your name and l.d. number.  
NEEDED 3 PITT TIX  CALL ALISA @ 4 • 1302.  CARPENTER, AKA EDITH  thanks! diane x4253  
X2558  TARA  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK·  BUNKER, AT X2635.  Thanks lor thinking last,  
ETSI 2 GAs for Mich. State, FSU,  Desperately need MSU and FSU  World Hunger Coalition.  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT·  and BC call: A. Raczkowski  GA's$$$.  NEED 2 MSU GAs X1786 DESI  NEED 1-4 MSU GA'S  
Make money teaching basic con­ (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  Call Keith at 273-3920.  PLEASE CALLx3467  
versational English abroad. Japan,  with jobs • will pay big $$$1  Need MSU stud tic Will trade Call  
Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to  HELP! NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  Jen x2801  WANTED: SIX AVAILABLE ND  
$2000-$4000+ per month. Many  NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN  634-4263 MOLLY  MEN TO BE SYR DATES(sept 26)  
provide room & board + other bene­ STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074  TRADE 2 PITT GAs for 2 SC or  Have Stud Tixbook. Call Young @  FOR SIX DESIRABLE FARLEY  
fits. No previous training or teaching  $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­ FSU GAs. BOB. 277-2510.  233-5735,9-11 p.m  WOMEN PLEASE SEND REFER­ 
certificate required. For more infor­ Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU  ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE  ENCES TO JENNIFER DURSO  
mation call: (206)632-1146 ext.  tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill  AND BC..$$ CALL JOANNE AT  I need GA and Student tickets for  (not one of the six) X4003 ASAP  
J5584  (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo  273-6588.  MSUI Will pay $1 Howie 273-5347  TRADE: I have 2 BC & I need 2  
PITT!!! Call Mary 273-5989  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • fish·  Have GA's to all Home Games &  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  NO vs USC -Need tickets for  
eries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or  Mich. Call232-7316 from 7·8 p.m.  TICKET BOOKLET  10/23 game.Chris Marks  Hey Beavis ....  
more  2324827  800-523-3139.  
NEED 3 MSU GAs  Lafayette Square sucks!! I  
WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP  Need 1 Mich. St. ticket  NEED FSU TIX. CALL COLLECT  CALL TOM x3492  
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS,  TICKET TO SAN FRAN.  for my dying sister  215·539·8421 AFTER 5 PM.  Yeah..hmm...huh ... hmm  
EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I  (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA  call x1572  
Student Travel Services is now hir­ TIXIII MIKE at X1573  'TICKETS FOR ALL'  WANTED: ONE (1) ND vs MICHI­ 
ing campus reps. Call @ 800-648­ Really Need 2 USC GA's for family  HOME GAMES  GAN STATE $50 plus. Call (515)  
4849.  Paul x1556  CALL 703-538·6657  965-0512.  GERMAN CLUB MEETING  
Need 1 Pitt GA. Call x2969 Lisa  ASK FOR BRENDAN  TONIGHTIIII  
PLEASE HELP, NEED MICH. ST.  'SAME DAY SERVICE'  
FOR RENT  Need Mich. St. & USC G.A.s call Mike x0600  G.A.'S. CALL 287-8090  PERSONAL  PLEASE COME TO AN INFORMA­TIONAL MEETING IN 117 O'SHAG  
NEED TWO GA'S FOR  WANTED  AT7:00.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  NEED 2 USC TICKETS  MICHIGAN STATE  PITT AND FSU TIX.  X2756  SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The  
219-291-7153  CALL JULIE AT 284-5511  CALL JOSE AT 634-2173  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS.  Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends.  

..... 
-~-------~--~-----------~---~-----~~-----~ . ----, ~ 
Wednesday, September 15, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
I I
Toronto Blue Jays win fourth straight; New York Mets top slumping Philadelphia 
DETROIT (AP) -Tony Fernandez drove in five runs and Juan Guzman won his fifth straight game Tuesday night as the Toronto Blue Jays won their fourth in a row, 9-5 over the Detroit Tigers. 
Guzman (12-3). who hasn't lost in seven starts since July 20, allowed six hits over 7 1-3 innings, struck out six and walked three. Duane Ward pitched the ninth, striking out Cecil Fielder with two on to end the game. 
The Blue Jays stayed 1 1/2 games ahead of second-place New York, which beat Milwaukee 12-5. Baltimore also won and stayed two games back. 
Rickey Henderson broke a 5­5 tie in the eighth against 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Storm Davis (2-7) with an RBI groundout. 
Yankees 12, Brewers 5 
MILWAUKEE (AP)-Danny Tartabull hit his 30th homer and drove in four runs as New York stayed on Toronto's heels in the AL East. 
New York broke a 3-3 tie with a four-run third on Tartabull's RBI single, a field­er's choice grounder by Paul O'Neill and a two-run single by Mike Gallego. 
The Yankees added three more in the fifth, knocking out Rickey Bones (10-10). Paul Gibson (1-0) went five innings, allowing four hits and a run in relief of starter Bob Wickman. 
Orioles 11, Red Sox 3 
BOSTON (AP) -Fernando Valenzuela got his first victory 
The Men's Volleyball club team will be holding 
t Sunday, September 19 and Monday, September 20 from in the JACC Pit. For more information call Matt Strottm 
1600. Spartan Spike Volleyball Tournament: Rec Sports is sponsoring a 6-on-6 co-ree volleyball tournament on Friday, September 17, 
8:00 PM under the lights at Stepan Courts. Register in advance in the RecSports office by Wednesday. September 15. information call the RecSports office at 631.6100. 
Officials Meeting for Rec Sports baseball is Thursday, Sept; 16 at 7:30 p.m. at the football auditorium by Gate 2 ofthe JACC. 
Ultimate Club will be holding a practice at 2:00 on Sunday at the Stepan Fields. All are welcome. 
Club Hockey: Anyone interested in playing club hock Rob at X1950. Leave your name, telephone number, and year, 
Off-campus soccer practice will be held on Wednesday. September 15, at 5:00PM at Stepan fields. All interested are encouraged to attend. Call Ed at 27~-5971 tions. 
Skip Holtz will speak Thursday, September 16 at 9:00 PM in the basement of Farley, spnosored by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. Men's and Women's varsity diving team tryouts will be held from Wednesday to Friday. 4-5:30 PM at Rolfs Aquatic G~pter; Contact Adam or Randy at 631-8455 with any questions."''; 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
Fellowship Meeting Friday, September 17th (d0-8:00 p.m. Come and enjoy singing, fcllm\ship and more~ Questions? Call kc\·in at 273-17.57 or Usa at -+38b0 

ANNUAl STUDENT ~ ART EXHIBIT t NOVEMBER 1-15 
•rJtdclp.wrs tnun ~e ND/SMC d "Only 2-cflrnenslonal w stu ents 
:Limit two entries per ;;,~~c~~~~~ted (max. size J'xl') 
r:~cll piece should be nt.1tted or n Pt>strr bo.11 d lOUnted on 
• 
Works must be labeled on the back wltl 

• 
Entries muse be submitted by__Qu~ ' title & artist Student Activities Ofnce Ll.S. to the 


Prizes.;_ 
Two IST Place prizes_ $200 each 
Two 2ND Place prizes -$100 each 
&PO'"<}fiED BY: 
AlUMNI ASSoCIATION 
ART DEPARTMENT SNITE MUSEUM STUOEJIIT ACllVInE& OFRCE 
----t~ 

since July 23 and Chris Hoiles homered to start a late nine­run outburst that led Baltimore to the victory. 
Hoiles hit a two-run homer in the seventh against Danny Darwin (14-11), putting Baltimore ahead 4-3. The Orioles added two more runs in the seventh and five in the eighth. 
Valenzuela (7 -9) pitched an eight-hitter, walking two and striking out three. It was the fifth complete game of the year for the left-bander, who was 0­2 in nine starts since his last victory. 
White Sox 8, Royals 3 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) ­Ivan Calderon broke a tie with a three-run double on reliever Stan Belinda's first pitch as Chicago increased its AL West lead to 3 1/2 games. 
Jason Bere (9-5), who struck out 13 against Boston in his last start, gave up six hits and four walks while striking out five. 
The Royals led 3-2 in the sev­enth, but Frank Thomas' one­out double launched Chicago's seventh-inning rally. After Hipolito Pichardo (6-8) walked Ellis Burks and Warren Newsom singled, reliever Billy Brewer issued a bases-loaded walk to Kevin Ventura before Calderon cleared the bases. 
Braves 10, Reds 3 
ATLANTA (AP) -Ron Gant hit 
the first regular-season grand 
slam of his career and Tom 
Glavine got his 19th victory as 
the Atlanta Braves beat the 
Cincinnati Reds 10-3. 
The Braves, returning from a 
5-2 road trip that boosted them 
Men's Soccer 
continued from page 16 
and 13 corner kicks, compared 
only four shots and six cor­kicks for the Titans. e played well in the first 
," continued Berticelli. "In the second half, we kept the tempo of the game, even going against the wind." 
Notre Dame will return home for a six-game homestand, starting this weekend with games against Michigan State 
Evansville. The team will have to leave the friendly l"u.•uum" of Alumni Field again October 8, when the Irish to Xavier. Friday night's Michigan State is 
l""''""u'u"'u to start at 7:30p.m. 
into first place in the NL West, entered the game with a 1 1/2­game lead over San Francisco. 
The Braves, who played at home as a first-place team for the first time since April 13, won for the 1Oth time in 12 games. The Reds have lost four in a row and nine of 12. 
Gant connected in the second inning ofT Bobby Ayala (6-8) to give Atlanta a 6-0 lead. Glavine (19-5)-just one victory shy of the 20-win mark for the third straight season -won for the ninth time in his last 10 deci­sions. 
Mets 5, Phillies 4 
NEW YORK (AP) -Jeff Kent blooped a bases-loaded single in front of Lenny Dykstra in the sixth and the ball bounced past the center fielder as another run scored, lifting the New York Mets past the slumping Philadelphia Phillies 5-4. 
Philadelphia, which led the Expos by 14 1/2 games on Aug. 21, led by just 4 1/2 following Tuesday night's action. The Expos beat St. Louis 12-9. 
Philadelphia has lost six of 

nine, and its late-season skid 
has raised the spectre of 1964, 
when the Phillies led second­
place St. Louis by 6 1/2 games 
with 12 to go only to lose 10 
straight and blow the pennant. 
Frank Tanana (7-15), who had 

lost three straight starts, al­
lowed three runs and eight hits 
in six-plus innings. Danny 
Jackson (12-11). who also lost 
to the Mets on Aug. 14, allowed 
four runs -just one earned ­
and five hits in six innings. 
Expos 12, Cardinals 9 
ST. LOUIS (AP) -Rookie Kirk 

presents 
THE HIBERNIAN LECTURE 
THE FIELD DAY ANTHOLOGY Professor Seamus Deane University of Notre Dame Thursday, September 16, 1993 4:15p.m. 
Hes Liorary Lounge 
-
Marten 
~ntinued from .page 16 
·:il.w·:::~~::~ ;.,;·:: · . -:::::·:tif~fl~~:-.. ·· . . <r·· :_ ·· J~mc~ and l~adership o · anelle · Karlan and Julie Harris, the perpetually soli 
lay of Molly Stark. Nicole oaws and. Chri!lty Peters, ~ -~-tal~nt ~tt Hensel · ·· 
Bif 

Rueter raised his record to 8-0 as the Montreal Expos re­mained red hot with a 12-9 vic­tory over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Moises Alou drove in three runs with a triple, double and two-run homer for the Expos, who have won seven games in a row and 16 of 17. 
The Expos have won eight of their last nine on the road and ended the Cardinals' four-game winning streak. 
Allen Watson (6-5) was the loser. 
QQ'TOSER.;;:ji;m' 
-.: -1 SOUTff'CAROLINA 
3 PENN STATE -· 

8 atxavter · 10 at Ohio State 13 LOYOLA 
17 at Bowling Green 21_ WESTERNILLINOIS 
.__ ·26 at Old Dominion 29 at Delaware 31 at LaSalle 
NOVEMBER 
4-7 Midwest Collegiate Con­ference Championships 
American Heart Association 

-~-----­

~-----------~--------------------~---­

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
-IU, UK rivalry goes beyond basketball season 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Kentucky, a longtime Indiana rival in basketball, may become the favorite team Hoosier fans love to hate in football, as well. 
Already, in many parts of Indiana, the new rivalry no 
longer needs much selling to spark fan interest, coach Bill Mallory said. 
"Certainly we don't have to in the southern part of the state. They'll probably crank up a lit­tle quicker on Kentucky than they will Purdue," he said.· "I get around and speak to a lot of alumni associations, and down south, boy, I'll tell you right 

Photo courtesy of Northwestern Sports Information Brett law and his Hoosier teammates take on Kentucky this Saturday. 
If you see news happening call 631-7471 and let us know. 
The Observer 
RIVERBEND ENTERTAINMENT presents...Live! in Concert 
WEDNESDAY SEPT. 15, 9:00 pm 
Capricorn Recording Artists 
mE FBEDDY JonsBARD·· 

now, Kentucky comes to their lips real quick." 
Indiana (2-0) plays Kentucky (1-1) in Memorial Stadium on Saturday. Since Indiana­Kentucky became an annual series in 1987, the two teams have each won three times. 
"Maybe up in the northern part of the state, Purdue still might be a little stronger in their thinking," Mallory said of Indiana fans' favorite opponent. "But I think over the past few years, Kentucky has become a much stronger rivalry (than it was). Prior to that time, we were not playing Kentucky ev­ery year. Now we are. I think that certainly has made the ri­valry more intense." 
He called Kentucky "a team 
that's improved and a team 
that we're going to have to go 
out and play certainly better 
than we did this past week. 
We're going to have to make 
some good strides this week." 
Curry said he was surprised 
when he first saw the intensity 
of the Wildcats' rivalry with the 
Hoosiers. 

"The first time we got ready 
for Indiana, I was shocked at 
the players' intensity. I was 
thinking Tennessee, the SEC, 
all that stuff," said Curry, who 
previously coached at Georgia 
Tech and Alabama. "And of 
course those are big rivals, too. 
But I'm not sure Indiana's not 
the biggest rival that Kentucky 
plays. 

"And I didn't realize that 
Louisville was kind of split. I 
had driven through it a thou­
sand times, but somehow it 
didn't register that Indiana is 
right here next to us and IV 
and UK fans are going back and 
forth all around the year, so it's 
quite a thing. It's a lot of fun. 
It's one of the more healthy ri­
valries I've been a part of." 


IN CONCERT 
Tickets available at the Info. Desk at LaFortune Wednesday, September 15, 1993 

Coac Wac er disappointed in Gop ers struggle against I-AA Indiana State 
By MIKE NADEL Ass«ia1ed Press 

MINNEAPOLIS Jim Wacker frowned as he re­counted the gory details. 
"First drive, we're first-and­goal on the 5, we have to settle for a field goal. Second drive, we're first-and-10 on the 24, we miss a field goal. Third drive, we're first-and-10 on the 20, we throw an interception." 
Wacker was on a roll Tuesday at his weekly news conference, talkfng about the way his Minnesota Gophers failed to roll up the points three nights earlier in an unimpressive 27­10 victory over Division 1-AA Indiana State. 
"Second quarter, we finally score a touchdown, then flzzle on two drives. Third quarter, flrst·and-10 on the 19, we fum­ble, frrst-and-10 on the 14, we throw an interception. You just can't make those mistakes. 
"Then, thank goodness, fourth 
quarter, touchdown, field goal, 
touchdown. We ended playing 
the way you're supposed to 
play. But up until that time, it was a series of frustration." 
Minnesota (1-1) dominated throughout, as it should have against such a weak opponent. The previous Saturday, Indiana State had opened with a 63-21 loss to Air Force. 
But almost every time the Gophers got within striking dis­tance, they struck out. 
"Some people call it the red zone. We're maroon and gold, so we call it the gold zone," Wacker said, referring to the area within 20 yards of the op­posing goal line. "We've got to score when we're in the gold zone." 
Quarterback Tim Schade leads the nation in total offense. But he has thrown only three touchdowns and has been intercepted six times. 
Wacker would like to see 
those numbers reversed. 

"If Tim makes good throws 
on the two interceptions 
(against Indiana State), that's 
two touchdowns, we blow them 
out, we're all feeling great 
about it,'' Wacker said. 

IFIRIEJE Outdoor Concert at Saint Mary"s 
@:)fltl~~~ ~~LBcf1ss(£)~CB 
must be able to present a valid college I. D. 
sponsored by Student Government and Student Activities Board 
September 24, 7993 Stepan Center Bpm Students $8 General $7 5 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Wednesday, September 15, 199 3 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Hawkeye injuries could mean Penn St. victory ­

By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY 

Penn State has won four of five games against Iowa in Iowa City and Hawkeye coach Hayden Fry says the Nittany Lions might make it five out of six this weekend if his wounded players don't heal in time. 
"If they come in here full speed and we're down, we're going to have a long after­noon," Fry told reporters at his Tuesday news conference. 
Iowa improved to 2-0 with a 31-28 victory last Saturday over rival Iowa State but not until the Cyclones had almost erased a 28-7 halftime deficit. 
"All I'm talking about at half­time is, 'Don't let up. Don't let these people get any momen­tum going,' " Fry said. "And what happens?" 
This happens: Iowa State spotted Iowa one more field goal halfway through the third quarter before charging back. The Cyclones allowed just two more first downs and 32 yards of Iowa offense the rest of the way. The comeback fizzled when ISU quarterback Bob Utter fumbled after being hit from behind and Io:wa recov­ered with less than two minutes to play. 
Fry said his halftime warn­
ings went unheeded, about the way little kids sometimes ignore their parents who tell them to stay away from a hot stove. 
"You tell your youngster not to do it until they get burned or burned a couple of times. They have to experience it," he said. 
"Our whole football team is still. making big mistakes. But we're 2-0. We're very proud of that. We're also realistic to know we've just got to improve tremendously to have a chance against Penn State," Fry said. 
In Iowa's opener against Tulsa, the Hawkeyes had to drive 96 yards for a touchdown and complete a two-point conversion with 53 seconds left to defeat the Golden Hurricane 26-25. 
"It's amazing the two lessons that they learned. In the first game, they learned the great thing about character and fight and just hanging in there. If you keep busting your rump, something good is eventually going to happen," he said. 
Against Iowa State, "they learned that, regardless how far you're ahead at the half, it's still a 60-minute ball game and if you don't play as hard as you can, then bad things are going to happen. 
Iowa escaped virtually injury free after the Tulsa game but that wasn't the case after last Saturday's victory, Fry said. 
[ ENTER NOW!) 
IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL MEN'S.IH SOCCER GRAD/FAC./STAFF'SOCCER 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT. 8 DEADLINE SEPT. 16 ENTER IN THE RecSp01ts OFFICE, JACC 
CAMPUS GOLF SCRAMBLE 
TO BE PLAYED ON SEPT. 19 
DEADLINE SEPT. IS ENTER AT THE (;OLF SHOP, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
"Our football team is beaten up," he said. 
As many as nine players will IJliss practices this week. Most notable is quarterback Paul Burmeister, who hurt his back. The injury forced Burmeister from the Iowa State game for a brief time and doctors thought his kidney may have been bruised. 
Fry said tests were negative and that Burmeister has a "deep bruise in the small of the back. He's extremely sore." 
Normally a player who misses too much practice time won't start on Saturdays, but Fry said all Burmeister needs to play is medical clearance, not practice time. 
Fry said he hasn't received an injury report from Penn State and he assumes the Nittany Lions are healthy. Penn State coach Joe Paterno confirmed later in a teleconference his 
Photo courtesy of Michigan Sporl$ Information 
team is virtually injury-free. 
Iowa quarterback Paul Burmeister is recovering from a back injury. 
Iowa State Cyclones seek upset win against No. 24 Wisconsin 
Personal Assistants for active female Notre Dame student who needs assis.. tance in dressing, eating, hygiene and other daily life activities. Hourly wage and training provided. Call Tonya, 289 ..0385 
Interested in representing Notre Dame at your high school during Fall or Christmas Break? Join the Undergraduate Schools Committee at the 
following organizational meeting: 
Wednesday, September 15 
All meetings begin at 7 pm, and are held in Hayes.-Healy Auditorium (room 122) New members need to attend one session. Returning members need only to stop by one meeting to receive current information. Any questions? Call Jennifer Carrier at 631 ..7505 or Luke Woods at 634..3333. 
bad on Bobby's part." 
Walden said the only mistakes Utter made were of a technical nature. He said he counted 13 mechanical mistakes for Utter, and they had nothing to do with the fumbles. 
"That tells me he's trying too hard," Walden said. "Anytime Bobby plays poorly, he's going too fast. He's trying to outrun the game and a good quarter­back always lets the game come to him. ... 
Utter and his teammates are trying to regroup for next Saturday's game at No. 24 Wisconsin. Walden said he thinks there's still plenty of life in the Cyclones, and he's not going to let the 11th straight loss to Iowa ruin the season. 
"We're trying our best to get our mindset out of the mortu­ary," he said. "As the old say­ing goes, get your mind out of the mortuary because we ain't dead yet." 
Walden was heartened that 
his team came back against 
Iowa after trailing 31-7 midway 
through the third quarter and 
is encouraged by the productiv­
ity of the offense. 
The Cyclones have scored 82 
points in two games, compared 
-
with 42 after two games last 
year. They are averaging a 
touchdown every 12 plays, even 
with the slow start against 
Iowa. 
"We made that run on a good 
football team, and they were 
helpless to stop it. Don't let that 
go beside the board," Walden 
said. "I've got great faith in this 
football team. I have no reason 
not to believe that this is a good 
football team capable of beat­
ing Wisconsin and a anybody 
else." 
Walden said that Todd Miller's 
move from defensive end to 
tackle in the second half game 
might become permanent. 
However, the Cyclones 
couldn't stop Iowa's running 
game until Miller went inside. 
He moved after Iowa had taken 
its 31-7 lead. The Hawkeyes 
managed only 13 yards rushing 
the rest of the way. 
"What had been working 
started getting shoved back up­
I 
field about three yards," 
I Walden said. "Everything that 1 had been working prior just got 
l
shut down because of one guy 
that knew what he was doing 
I
and was doing it the way it was 
supposed to be done." 
j 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa 

Imagine you were carrying a football and a grizzly bear tried to take it. Who do you think would end up with the ball? 
Iowa State coach Jim Walden used that analogy to explain what happened to quarterback Bob Utter against Iowa. Utter lost three fumbles in the 31-28 loss, but Walden said Tuesday they weren't his fault. 
Instead, they occurred be­cause huge Iowa linemen stripped the ball from the 180­pound junior. 
"When you're 100 pounds big­ger and probably 100 pounds stronger, when that hits you, sometimes the ball comes out," Walden said. "And not only does it knock the ball out, it knocks your shoulder off, too." 
Chris Webb, a 255-pound tackle, caused the first fumble, 287-pound Mike Wells caused the second and 260-pound Maurea Crain stripped the ball on the last fumble. That came after Iowa State had recovered an onside kick at midfield with 
1:2 3 left and dashed the Cyclones' last hopes to win. 
"I didn't like it. I'm sorry he fumbled," Walden said. "But I didn't see anything on the film that told me he was careless. 
"So in a case like that, put one up for the defense. If that had happened to our defense, I would have said, 'Way to go. Good job stripping the ball.' So I can't turn around and say it's 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 15, 1993 
-
Notre Dame Rugby opens season against MSU 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Spans Writer 

More than one set of Spartans are headed into South Bend this weekend. While one competes on the gridiron, the other will be out at Stepan Field as the Notre Dame Rugby Club meets Michigan State in its first collegiate match this weekend. 
The Irish are expecting strong perfor­mances from the talented underclass­men who are new to the squad and the returning players who have worked hard in preparation for the season. 
In the last two weeks, the club played the University of Michigan's men's club and the Northwest Indiana men's club. Last weekend in Ann Arbor, the Irish were overcome by a club team which features former collegiate and foreign players. Mental mistakes doomed the Irish in the close loss to the Northwest Indiana club. 
Club president Mike McGowan explained the difficulty of beating a men's club. 
"The last three weeks we played well, but its hard to beat 26-27 year old men who have played for several years," said McGowan. "They know the fundamen­tals. They've played four years rather that two weeks like the rookies." 
The Irish generally play five or six men's clubs a year, but it is against the college teams that the club excels. In each of the last three years, Notre Dame has gone to the Midwest finals. 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
The Notre Dame rugby team had a rough weekend at Michigan, but hopes to rebound Saturday against Michigan State. 
This year, the club will be improved by On Saturday against Michigan State, the addition of coach Bart Bottorff. the B-side will play at 10:30 a.m. and According to McGowan, having a coach the A-side will play at 11:30 a.m. at 
has helped make the practices more Stepan Field. effective 

The Observer/Sean Farnan  
The Irish crew club works to prepare a boat for their upcoming regatta in Pittsburgh.  
JNIJD)ISMC r~m~ KJAW SOCJIIETY  
MJEIETJING IFO~ SIEJNJIOJRS  
PROFESSOR SOENS WILL SPEAK  
ON THE  
PERSONAL STATEMENT  
I  
I I  WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15  
f  7:30 PM IN CUSHING AUDITORIUM  
I  
l .  

BOXING 
The Boxing Club had an "unbelievable" response at Activities Night according to club president Jeff Gerber. 110 prospective boxers signed up including 12 women. It is the strongest response from women ever with sever­al expressing sincere interest in competing. 
The novice program which would include any boxers who signed up at Activities Night will start on Monday, September 27, at 4 p.m. at an informational meeting in one of the Auxiliary gvms in the 

JACC. 
This semester, the novices can partici­pate in a month-long program that ends with a fight for each boxer. 
ROWING 
The Rowing Club has started practice, but both the novice men's and women's team are looking for more rowers. Anyone interested is welcome to join the current rowers at the Main Circle at 
4:15 any afternoon. 
The varsity squad is looking forward to its first competition, the Head of the Ohio, on October 2 in Pittsburgh. Novice competition doesn't start until November. 
EQUESTRIAN 
The Equestrian Club started practice this week, but it is looking for anyone who still interested in participating. No experience is necessary and those inter­ested should call club president Megan Turpin. The schedule will be set after a regional meeting this weekend. 
-···­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
t\ORftJU CtnTtR 
FOR THE <fl RTS 
A TREK 
CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATRE 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 AT 8 P.M. O'LAUGHL/N AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S-NO COMMUNITY ADULTS $4, STUDENTS $3 A JOHN M. DUGGAN EVENT 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in Olaughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 
. ~--­
Scunt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 


-
TODAY 
Wednesday, September 15, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


BILL WAITERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~1-\t>-T IV SOME&:>\:>'{ CA\..LS 
\JS 

1993 Wanerson101s1 by Unrversal Press Syndlf..lltt 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Extend across 
5 Ready for use 10 Cop's milieu 14 Mrs. Chaplin 15 African capital 16 Bacchanalia 17 Start of a quip 20 Con artist 21 Holler 22 Devoured 23 Promotional 
recording 
26 Certain theatrical curtains 
30 Party 
provisioners 34 Mountain ridge 35--breve 36 Tuck's partner 
37 Middle of the quip 41 Hail! or farewell! 42 Sally who rode into space 
43 Central Fla. city 44 Flying boat, e.g. 47 Le Carre's 
superspy 48Twist 49 Pacific yellowfin 
tuna 50 Place fit for a king? 53 Part of the Dark 
Continent 58 End of the quip 62 Japanese 
fermented beverage 63 Sign up 

"A PAIR 0' PI\\1-\H\C. PER\I't'IIET\CS .. ?/ 
64 Cruising on a liner 65 Mouse, to a skunk 66 Mine entrances 67 Where Young grew old 
DOWN 
1 Melody 2 Rain heavily 3 "The King--" 4 Babe in the 
woods 5 Pieces of eight? 6 Mother-of-pearl 7 Avila relative 8 The Black 
Knights 9 He wrote "The Dunciad" 
l'VE 1'\E"I/ER \.\t:f>-R\) 0\' A\'-1'{(}\ TI\KI~G n\E \RO\JBLE To RI-\W£ WE\Rtl II'{'SI.JL\S . 
OF INTEREST 
49 Broad necktie 57 Jacob's first 51 Concept mate 52 Peel 58 Viper 54 Biblical hirsute 59 Distant 
twin &o Stringed 55 Sudden burst of instrument, for wind short 56 Region 61--Lanka 
Get answers to any three clues DINING HALL by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 British derby 
11 Coastal b1rd 12 Ripen 13 Norse warrior 
on high 18 Plant part 
32 Letter after 19 Ye --Shoppe sigma 
24 Kind of 33 Scatter, in a way telepathy 
35A-apple25 Baltimore bird 
38 "-pro nobis" 26 Epic narratives 
39 Gaming piece 27 Longs for 
40 "-.-. on parle28 Make known 

29 Inhabitant: 45 Weight lifter Suffix 
46 Faithful, in 30 Bonnie's Dundee partner in crime 47 Frees peas from 31 Wings for Am or a pod 
BEFORE YOU HOST YOUR Zero = Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're 
0

NEXT PARTY REMEMBER TO: under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant.
• Offer a choice of non-alcoholic 
ZER® G 
N 
beverages. 
T

• Serve food. Food helps you One= One drink per hour, which sets enjoy what you drink without letting the pace for moderate drinking. R
e)Nzj 0 
what you drink get the better of you. E 
• Encourage your guests to follow 
D 

the Zero-One-Three rule for Three =No more than three drinks per day, 
A

alcohol consumption. and never daily. 
M

THR!Z AND 
E 

For more infonnation on party plarming and non-alcoholic recipes, call the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, September 15, 1993 
Men's Soccer rebounds, upends Detroit Mercy 

By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
Any early season doubts about the qual­ity of this year's Notre Dame men's soccer team were quickly forgotten yesterday as the Irish played through some inclement weather and dominated conference foe Detroit Mercy, winning 3-1 to even their record at 2-2. 
Notre Dame went to Detroit with a two­game losing streak, their latest loss com­ing on a 4-2 shocker in their home opener against Butler Friday night. Detroit took a 3-1 record into the contest, including three shutouts posted by freshman goalie Kal Kaliszewski. Another freshman, for­
-
ward Vincent lacozza, was tied for the conference lead in scoring with six points, tallying two goals and two assists in his first four games. 
The Notre Dame defense, led by Dane Whitley and Brian Engesser, controlled the first half, not allowing a single Titan shot on goal, while the offense took advantage of Detroit errors and gusty winds to keep Detroit Mercy down throughout the contest. 
The Irish opened the scoring at the 
38:51 mark in the first half when junior Jean Joseph scored off of a Mike Palmer pass to give Notre Dame a 1-0 halftime 
. . lead. Palmer, the senior captain of the . . . . . . . The Observer/David. Hungellng Irish, finished the game with two assists. 
lnsh captam M1ke Palmer scored two ass1sts 1n last mght's 3-1 v1ctory over Detroit Mercy. 
Notre Dame failed to put away the tena­cious Titans, however, as they could not cash in on several scoring opportunities, including a missed penalty shot early in the second half. Detroit Mercy made a second half surge, taking back some mo­mentum when freshman Radek Papiez scored off a cross pass from Dave Poniatowski 7:07 into the second half to tie the game at 1-1. 
"In the crazy weather, we didn't settle well and we didn't finish," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. "We could have scored a few more goals." 
The game remained deadlocked for twenty minutes until sophomore Bill Lanza headed a Tim Oates pass into the right corner with 12:20 left to play to put the Irish ahead for good. 
Oates, who was recognized as the MVP of the Indiana MetLife Classic last week, did not start the game, but still made a substantial contribution for Berticelli and the Irish. 
"I give a lot of credit to Tim Oates," said Berticelli. "We wanted to use him spar­ingly and he came in and put a point on the board right away with his assist to Bill Lanza. He's the kind of player that can make things happen." 
The final Notre Dame goal came with :25 left on the clock when junior Jason Fox scored off of a Chris Mathis pass. 
The Irish finished with 19 shots on goal 
see MEN'S SOCCER I page 11 
JOCK STRIP 
Irish Volleyball worth a look 
W 
at can you do? Although the 
ootball team is coming off one 
f the most memorable week­
ends in its history, another campus team can boast the same thing, but no one really knows since the information got lost in the flood of football coverage. 
Chicago, to compete in the Reebok Challenge. Heading into the competition, the Irish were the lowest ranked of the four teams at 18th. Long Beach State was ranked 2nd, Illinois was ranked 6th and Colorado was ranked 12th. 
Well, Debbie Brown's crew topped the Illini with a five game victory and then battled Long Beach State in the final match. Although they lost in three games, the Irish were in each until the very end. 
Basically, what this boils down to is that these gals are good. 
After the strong showing this weekend, Notre Dame jumped to 17th in the Volleyball Monthly poll and are expected to move up in the American Volleyball Coaches Association (AVCA) poll also. 
Now I know that the home volleyball matches are not attended by many fans. If you look closely at the photos in the paper, you'll notice that there is no one in the background. 
It's a shame because Brown has found a winning lineup that balances the expe­
see MARTEN I page 11 
Lester scores hat trick in defeat of Indiana 


utes into the second half with a header of a Thompson corner kick. 
Freshman phenom Cindy Daws fol­lowed Lester three minutes later with a twelve yard blast just inside the right post which, again, Thompson assisted. 
Sophomore forward Rosella Guerrero, who led the squad in scoring last season but hadn't earned a point since she scored a hat trick in the season opener against LaSalle, continued the Irish scor­ing flurry two minutes later with an unassisted shot from 19 yards out. 
The Hoosiers netted their only goal of the evening midway through the second half on an 18 yard shot by forward Jill Thurman. Forward Amy Friedrich assisted on the goal. 
Lester wrapped up the Notre Dame scoring and her hat trick with 12:55 remaining on a rocket from 30 yards out that beat Indiana goalkeeper Jennifer Schieck to the right side of the net. 
Having proclaimed prior to the match that the Irish would "need to play with intensity" in order to be successful against Indiana, Lester certainly fulfilled her part of the challenge. 
"We didn't play a very good first half," Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli said, "but Alison Lester just wouldn't let us lose." 
Inside SPORTS 

BIG 10 FOOTBALL 
Iowa prepares for Big 10 opener against Penn State. 
see page 13 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY scoring with four goals and six assists, Sports Writer booted in the only score of the first half with 24:36 expired in the game. 
Senior tri-captain Alison Lester gave Sophomore midfielder Tiffany 
the Notre Dame women's soccer team all Thompson, who garnered three assists ?f the offense. it would _need la~t ni?ht in on the night, earned her fifth assist of Its 5-1 thumpmg oflndmna Umvers1ty. the season on the play. 
Her hat trick led the unbeaten Irish in Notre Dame outshot Indiana 6-1 in the their blow-out of the Hoosiers at Bill first half. Armstrong Stadium in Bloomington. Lester gave the Irish their second and 
Lester, who now leads the Irish in game-winning goal five and a half min­The Observer/David Hungeling Ragen Coyne and the Irish women's soccer team won their third game of the season last night. 

Freshman keeper Jen Renola made one save in net for the Irish. 
Senior stand-out backfielder Jill Matesic, who did not play last night due to a sore knee, is listed as "game to game" by Petrucelli. It is hoped that she will be able to play in this weekend's home match-ups with rival Michigan State and fifth-ranked William & Mary. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
After near miss at Iowa, Iowa State's Cyclones hope to rebound against #24 Wisconsin. 
see page 13 


COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

New rivalry awaits IU when Kentucky invades Bloomington on Saturday. 
see page 12 





