


Tuesday, November 9, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.46 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Alumni Hall helps to support students in Bangladesh 
By THERESA ALEMAN community," said Ferguson. Assistant News Editor In the work-study program, Martin Hall students teaeh the 
An $8500 donation from youths of neighboring villages Alumni Hall will go toward as­who would otherwise probably sisting ninety five boarding stu­not receive formal schooling. dents with education costs The youths range from ages six through a work-study program to twenty seven. These young at Notre Dame College in villagers cannot attend school Dhaka, Bangladesh, according during the day because they to Alumni Hall rector , Father must work, but they choose to George Hozum. attend school at night, taught 
For the past thirteen years, by the students of Notre Dame Alumni Hall has made a sub­College, according to Ferguson. stantial donation to the resi­Holy Cross priests and broth­dents of Martin Hall dormitory ers established Notre Dame at Notre Dame College in College forty three years ago. Dhaka, Hozum said in a speech Since then, it has grown from a at a recent Alumni Hall mass. few students to more than The hall collects money from 2,800 students he said. residents at mass on football "The priests and brothers weekends and at Sunday mass­who teach at Notre Dame es during the school year. Fr. George Rozum, Alumni co-Pres. Dominic Carreira and Fr. James Ferguson show off the $8500 check College are mostly -make that 
The men of Martin Hall whom that will be presented to Notre Dame College in Bangladesh to support the work/study program. all -graduates of the University the money benefits, are mostly bly not be able to receive a promising students who cannot the people of surrounding vii­of Notre Dame. Notre Dame 
College has extensive ties to the

Christian converts in a country higher education were it not for afford to pay tuition or to rent !ages. "Through Notre Dame which is roughly ninety five the donations of Alumni Hall, rooms in the city while they at-College's work study program, University. With the work­percent Muslim. Martin Hall according to Rozum. tend the school," said Father these Christians, who are rarely study program established by 
students are looked down on Alumni Hall, ninety five stu­
"The students whom the James Ferguson, a Holy Cross given opportunities for higherfor their Christian faith. They work-study programs benefit priest who has worked exten-education, are given a chance dents are given the opportunity 
come from profoundly impover­to attend school while helping
are highly recommended by sively with the students of to overcome their oppressionished villages and would proba-priests from area villages as Notre Dame College and with while helping the surrounding the community," said Ferguson. 
SMC 
Senate rejects election reform amendment 
By ANALISE TAYLOR the president of the Student peals and the president is a property or persons.
changes 
News Writer Senate to determine whether a non-voting member or the In addition, the Student candidate's written election ap­Senate, according to Student Senate discussed security at the An amendment to a Sept. 27 peal satisfies two conditions: a Body President Frank Flynn. upcoming Florida State vs. 
resolution on election reform procedural defect in the King submitted a reform pro­Notre Dame game.The proposal failed at last night's Student Election Committee's decision, posal last night tha.t would states: Senate meeting, stirring debate or substantial new evidence not allow the entire Student Senate "Whereas only ten days ago, 

dining hall 
By MEG MURPHY 
among student senators. considered in the Election to determine whether a candi­more than 70 people were in­
News Writer 
Committee's reconsideration. date's written appeal satisfies jured, some critically, at the
STUDENT SENATE 

Some senators dislike this the conditions of the resolution. University of Wisconsin's Camp"To better serve the needs The proposed amendment, part of the proposal because it Aside from the election re­Randall Stadium as a result ofof the students" is the motto which would have allowed the may give more responsibility to form debate, both the wording the student body's rushing ontofor the changes made earlier Student Senate to determine the president and it may not and principle of the new direc­the playing field after an upsetthis year and those that are in what written appeals would allow the Student Senate to dis­tive concerning the annual victory over the University of
the planning stages for the 
have appeared before the cuss the cases brought to the snowball fight caused concern Michigan, We the members of
Saint Mary's Dining Hall, 
Senate, would have yielded Judicial Council, said South among some senators. The sen­the Student Senate remind the
according to Kevin Kirwan, 
more power to the Student Quad Senator Erin King. ators suggested a warning to members of the student body of 
director of the Saint Mary's 
Senate instead of the president students saying they may par­the dangers involved in tryingDining Hall. 
of the Student Senate. The Election Committee was ticipate in the activity but are to and succeeding in rushingBesides the new hours of The Sept. 27 resolution allows formed to handle student ap-responsible for damage to onto the playing field." 
operation, the Dining Hall now offers a selection called "Healthy Choice" for the 


Panel discusses female, married priests in open forum 
health conscious and those students who are vegetarians. This consists of a 
By HONORA BUCKLEY vegetarian/healthy entree at 
News Writer 

each meal, usually found in the Traditions section. 
To help students recognize Also being offered at every 
issues of ministry and gender in lunch and dinner is a pasta 
the Catholic Church, and to selection, in the Grill Bar Line. 
emphasize that they are in the Almost nothing but positive 
hearts and minds of people in feedback has been received in 
our student body, a panel pre­accordance with these 
sentation and open forum were changes. 
held in the Hesburgh Library "I am very pleased with the 
lounge last night, according to changes that have been made. 
Anne La Fleur, one of the or­The el{tended hours of opera­
ganizers of the presentation tion make the Dining Hall and forum. more accessible to the stu­dents' schedules," said sopho­ND Women and Men more, Claire Gibson. 
Speakout panel consisted of six 

New ideas are still in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's works for the Dining Hall, ac­students; Katie Bergin, Bridget cording to Kirwan. 
Deegan, Ed Hahnenberg, 

"Originally, plans were to Megan McDermott, Melissa add fryers and a grill to the Whelan, and Greg Zuschlag. Grill Bar. But because of the "All of us (as Christians) have ventilation and building struc­a call and all of us must follow 
Oh,..•rvAr/Frir. Ruethling 

ture, it would be too expensive it to make this church whole," The ND Women and Men Speakout panel listens to questions from the audience at the Hesburgh Libraryfor the college to add the sys­according to McDermott, a Lounge. Women's possible future in the priesthood was one of the main topics discussed. 
freshman from Lyons Hall. 

tem," he said. 
because of her gender, the Mary's, believes that by deny-explained Whelan. 
Que addition the Dining Hall Church will not allow her to be ing women the right to receive Zuschlag, a graduate studenthopes to implement by the The most pressing problem ordained a priest. the seventh sacrament, the in the Masters of Divinity pro-spring is that of permanent the panel addressed is finding "What about my call?", she church does not fully recognize gram, addressed the issues ofhot food warming wells. These what each individual's call is questioned. "Does it have a women. "The church must rec-women in the priesthood aswould take the place of the and how it fits into the church. 
place in the Church?" ognize all people in the commu-well as married priests. 
temporary food warmers now McDermott, for example, feels 
nity [both men and women]
the call to the priesthood, butfound in the Traditions line. 

Whelan, a senior from Saint who do have that calling," see SPEAK OUT/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Boy, I wish I 

could dreatn 
The call came 


vening. "Kev, how about 
Inside Column tomor­
." I held my breath. hop­
the Inquisitor would sim­
hang up. He did not. His 
eth grated as my bones 

shook. He would not leave 
alone this time. "The 

nside Column for tomor­
w?" I asked. Nothing, 

ust those teeth. Managing Editor 
Not me, I can't. I simply 

don't have the time. I 
gan to feel trapped, suffocated. No response, 

ust the teeth. 
Can I do it? "I can do it," I thought. My columns have graced these pages before. Why such fear? What else do I have to do? I can put off my plans. Line dancing at Heartland can wait. The Achy-Breaky will still be there in an hour. 
"I'll do it," I shouted with enthusiastic fervor. My time is now. 
With Jesus Christ Superstar as my inspiration and my Bic Fine Point as my instrument, I sat down at my desk to work my magic. 
No magic. 

Instead my Bic Fine Point turned into a drum stick that whaled on the imaginary drum set in front of me. Man how I love those early 70's funky beats. Amazingly, my drum solo didn't produce any ideas for the Inside Column. 
Finding no inspiration at my desk, I looked around the room. A British flag, an Italian flag, a bike, assorted posters. a baby blue carpet, the world's most comfortable couch and a refriger­ator filled with Mountain Dew and Little Kings Creme Ale. 
I gaze back to my desk. My collection of pho­tos stare me down. "Hey friends, help me out, don't let me down now." Nothing, no inspiration there. 
Yet. as I stare at my photos, I can't help but become sad at my state of affairs. I just wanted to write an Inside Column. I didn't want to get upset and scared. Too late. senior year has a tendency to do this. 
As each day passes, I can't help but become anxious for my graduation in May. It signifies the end of a life I have known for twenty-one years, and the beginning of, hell, who knows what. 
I'm going to have a job, responsibilities and a new home. Taxes, car insurance, and medical bills. An assortment of ties will need to be added to my wardrobe and the Grateful Dead t­shirts will have to be weeded out. 
But this fear for the future is minuscule in comparison with my fear of what I will leave behind. 
I am wrapping up what those older adults 

in "The greatest years of your life." Next 
. I will be one of those older adults. "Ya 
kids, college was the greatest time of my 
" Sounds so contrived, but so realistic to a 
nior approaching graduation. 
The last four years have given me relation­

ships that I am not willing to lose. Yet, people who are my closest friends now, will be scat­tered across the country nexLyear. To lose them now seems inconceivable but unfortunate­ly inevitable. College offers us a enticing situa­tion-to become closer and have deeper friend­ships to more people than you will ever have in your life. Now that phase of my life is coming to a close. 
I turn away from the photos, tap my Bic Fine Point to Jesus Christ Superstar and stare at the ceiling. Boy, I wish I could think of' an idea for the Inside Column. 
TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Laura Ferguson  Lynn Bauwens  
Liz Foran  John Rock  
Spons  Karhie Young·  
Beth Regan  Accent  
Viewpoint  Lisa Monaco  
Jason Thomas  Patrice Miller  
Lab Tech  Business  
John Bingham  Rian Akey  
Graphics  Pancho Lozano  
Chris Weirup  

Tho Obscrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlishod Monday rhrough FridJy rxcc.-pt during exam anJ vacation pcriod!t. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rcprodunion riglus are reserved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
"Heat of the Night" actor arrested 
CONYERS, Ga. Howard Rollins, co-star of the television series "In the Heat of the Night," was released from the Rockdale County jail Mon. after a arrest for allegedly driving under the influence. A friend posted a $10,000 bond for Rollins, who had been in jail since Sat. Also Mon., the case was sent to state court for a le jury trial. Rollins, 42, was arrested after his car was seen weaving in traffic, Police Chief Roland Vaughn said. It was his fifth arrest in a year and a half for allegedly driving drunk, recklessly or too fast. Rollins plays attorney and ex-policeman Virgil Tibbs in the TV series, which is filmed in nearby Covington and stars Carroll O'Connor. His was reintroduced to the series just week after an absence caused by Rollins' five-week jail term for a probation vio­
Case questions marital rape 
MANASSAS, Va. A woman who cut off her husband's penis t"u•uJJ•ou on the witness stand Monday as she 
1 

1""'""'"r" turned out to watch the first day of testimony at trial, which has attracted international media atten­on and put a spotlight on men's and women's attitudes 
about rape. 
mning Lotto ticket sold in Lafayette 
INDIANAPOLIS A Lafayette doctor and his wife who won the $1.5 mil­Lotto Cash jackpot said Monday they plan to pay off their mortgage and put the rest of the money in the bank. Dr. Grayson Davis and his wife Lorraine picked up their Monday -$1.08 million after taxes. Davis, 76, he has no plans to retire from the family medicine actice he has had for forty one years. "It's a little hard 
believe," Davis said. "This must be the luckiest moment that we ever had." The Davis' ticket was a $5 quick-pick purchased Friday at Wells Yeager Best Co. and matched all six winning numbers drawn Saturday night: 5,6,7,8, 21 and 28. 
President's son begins campaign 
HOUSTON Republican George Bush began a twenty seven city tour Texas on Mon. to announce his intention to unseat ocratic Gov. Ann Richards. Former President Bush's son, who served as both an adviser and confidante in his father's campaigns, said his campaign would focus on education, crime and the growth of state government. "I worry about the future of our state. I think Texas is changing, and not for the best. My drive is to make the future for my kids bright. I like the Texas of dreamers and doers," Bush said. Bush, the 47 -year-old managing partner of the Texas Rangers baseball team, was born in Connecticut and grew up in Texas. He earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard and 
an oil and gas exploration company in Midland. 
ld he jury he pinned her to the bed and her. After he fell asleep, she said, "I lift­the sheets and l cut it." John Bobbitt, 26, is accused of marital sexual assault. Mrs. Bobbitt faces her own trial Nov. 29 for the mutilation. Each could be sentenced to 20 years in prison if convicted. The prosecutor in the rape trial 
told the jury of nine women and three men------------------------"":.L!..!-'-"'-""--""""'= 
at Bobbitt frequently forced his wife to have sex. The u~at::••"'" said the sex was consensual and Lorena Bobbitt leveled a false accusation because she was jealous and dissatisfied with his lovemaking. A few dozen curiosity-
Georgia moves to retake Abkhazia 
Georgian troops moved to the border of the separatist re!;Jion of Abkhazia today, while U.N. negottators scrambled to set up peace talks and prevent a new outbreak of violence. 
Abkhazia fell to separatists in September
..------' 
GEORGIA 
......•\ ~.,...--..___"t ~-~ 
~ ··---'-....,_y-3--~ ·-----~--, i 

<Q ·(.---ARMENIA '''-<.J ._...·.. ._" 
In five weeks of fighting, rebel forces had inflicted ( A_ZERBAIJAN a series of humiliating defeats on government >.."'-. 
troops, demoralized by the loss of Abkhazia. A week ago, encouraged by support from Russian troops sent to guard railroads and other key facilities in the former Soviet republic, Shevardnadze's forces took the offensive. 
More charges stem from Tailhook 
NORFOLK, Va. 
Attorneys for a Navy commander facing a Tailhook court-martial said Mon. they have witnesses placing Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Frank Kelso in an area where women were grabbed during the rowdy convention. Cmdr. Thomas Miller allegedly knew women were being groped by junior officers on a third-floor patio of the Las Vegas Hilton on the convention's final night, Sept. 7, 1991, but did nothing to stop it, prosecutors said. Kelso has said he was at the patio on Sept. 6. 1991, a night before dozens of women were sexually assaulted by Navy and Marine Corps aviators. Miller's lawyer said two Navy admirals and a commander have given statements plac­ing Kelso in the same area as Miller on the convention's final night. Cmdr. Steve Pietropaoli, a Navy spokesman at the Pentagon, said Kelso's attendance at Tailhook has been thoroughly investigated and the admiral stands by his statements that he was not on the third floor the night of Sept. 7. 
Man charged with threatening arson 
MALIBU, Calif. 
A convicted child molester was charged Monday with threatening to set wildfires in revenge for the seizure of his property, but prosecutors said they hadn't linked him to any of the recent arson firestorms. Firefighters, mean­while, stamped out hot spots in the 19,000-acre Malibu wildfire, and schools reopened for the first time since the blaze struck. Thomas Larsen, 43, was charged with one count of mailing a threat to damage or destroy by means of fire, said Carole Levitzky, a spokeswoman for the U.S. attorney. The threat was in letters mailed to police agen­cies and homes. Larsen, who was arrested Sun., appeared before U.S. Magistrate Judge Charles Eick late Monday and was ordered held without bail. The eharge carries a maximum punishment of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
RUSSIA 
i Major1rail lines 
j I, 
.. ~_Tbilisi ·,·····...,, ) '?·:~~ .................:::.. \, 

INDIANA Weather Tuesday, Nov. 9 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures  NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 9. Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. --~---,~--..~A-.../ 20s H  
ltndianapot@ 50° I  OHIO  
QQ_Q4.Q.Q i) ~ 6 Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;tes snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vlli Associated Press Graph1csNet C1993Accu·Weat11er, Inc.  FRONTS: ............... ...a..&.. ........... COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Waalher. Inc. Pressure H L HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Assaaaled Press H L Dallas 58 29 New York Atlanta 54 3t London 52 48 Philadelphia Baltimore 48 31 Los Angeles 74 59 San Franctsco 76:~ 52;~ J Boston 46 38 M1am1 eo 73 Seattle 52 36 Cha~one 52 34 Minneapolis 36 te Seoul 57 48 Chicago 4t t6 Montreal so 20 Toronto 38 28 Columbus 34 28 New Orleans 53 39 Washington, D.C. 47L_____________________________________ 34  








Students polish skills in leadership exercise, lecture 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 





Motivational lecture to be helcf 
By MYRNA MALONEY Pritchard, who's fee normally Center on Jan. 21 will include News Writer stands at $5,000, has agreed to all SMC dorms which have been speak at SMC for $500. RHA paired up with various dorms 
In a Saint Mary's Residence will donate $250 and the re­at ND. according to Wallace. Hall Association (RHA) meeting maining half will be sponsored Dorms will be paired as follows: held last night, they voted to co-by the Wellness Center. Augusta-St. Ed's/Howard 
Pritchard's lecture will include Holy Cross-Dillon/Badin
RESIDENCE HALL ASSOC. 
the topics of self-esteem and LeMans-Morissey/Lyons sponsor motivational speaker sexuality. McCandless-Alumni/Keenan Michael Pritchard who will In other business: Regina-Cavanaugh speak in Caroll Auditorium on • The Late Night Olympics. to • Augusta Hall will continue Wed. at 7:30p.m., according to be held at the Notre Dame to sell Sesquicentenial T -shirts Tricia Wallace, RHA president. Joyce Athletic & Convec&,tion for $10. 
Haiti blames negotiator for failed talks 
By MICHAEL NORTON can in no way be imputed to After the military failed to at­Associated Press the army.'' army spokesman tend the meeting, Caputo criti­Col. Joseph Antoine said, read­cized military leaders. Caputo's PORT-AU-PRINCE ing a communique to reporters accusation that the army bore 
The army blamed U.N. chief at army headquarters. the entire responsibility for the negotiator Dante Caputo for the The army failed to a1Jend a breakdown was supported by breakdown of talks to restore meeting set up by Caputo Fri. to representatives of the interna­democracy in Haiti, but indi­search for ways to fulfill a July tional community. cated Mon. that it was open to 3 agreement between Aristide Antoine said Aristide's de­further negotiations. and army chief Lt. Gen. Raoul mand 'that the entire military 
It was the first time since the Cedras. high command and the capital talks broke off Fri. that the police chief step down does not military said it was willing to Aristide, the country's first figure in the July 3 agreement. resume the negotiations aimed freely elected president, was He said the army wrote Caputo at ending the standoff over the ousted by the army in Sept. about this on the eve of the return of exiled President Jean­1991. He was to have returned meeting, but that Caputo "pre­Bertrand Aristide. Oct. 30 under the U.N.-bro­ferred to ignore the army's con­
"The failure of the meeting kered accord. cern." 


EPA chief calls for overhaul ofsuperfu.nd 
By RITA BEAMISH speed up the cleaning process, ferent story," she said. Already Associated Press minimize hardship on small EPA is supposed to consult with businesses that may have con­the community around a WASHINGTON tributed to hazardous waste Superfund site. but Browner 
Communities will have a big­and allow greater community said the law should require the ger say in cleaning up the na­involvement in deciding reme­community be brought into the tion's most toxic waste sites, dies. process sooner. and in some cases that may "Too many communities feel mean less • cleanup, shut out. They feel they're only The administration is begin­Environmental Protection consulted after some distant ning to discuss with key Agency Administrator Carol bureaucracy has already de­Congress members its propos­Browner said Monday. cided what to do," she said. als for changing the law, and 
The much maligned will work with the lawmakers Superfund law is "perhaps the "Where an industrial plan is to develop legislation by early most important" environmental going to move in, it may not next year. officials said. That is statute the nation has. but it make sense to clean up every a change from the initial strat­needs a dramatic overhaul. trace of contamination, but if egy under which the adminis­Browner said in a speech in you're planning to build a tration was to prepare its own Cleveland. school or a home or a play­package and submit it to 
The administration wants to ground on that site, that's a dif-Congress. 

nario of the situation was that scored better than her group. 
JOHN DENSMORE,DRUMMER FOR THE DOORS LIVE IN CONCERT! 
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7 p.m. 
$12 Reserved Seating Price includes admission to an infor­mal book signing reception for his book 
"Riding on the Storm: The Doors, The Sixties, & Now" 
Tickets available at Morris Civic (219) 235-9190 and 1-800-537-6415. 
By ROBERT CAHILL 
News Writer 
In an attempt to improve leadership skills and enable stu­dents to more effectively lead organiza­tions, Student Government and SUB sponsored a ,. ..,_ lecture enti-Gayle Spencer tied "Problem Solving and Decision Making" last night in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
Gayle Spencer, assistant di­rector of Student Activities, led participants through an exer­cise entitled "Desert Survival Situation" as part of the ongo­ing leadership series. 
All of those present partici­pated in the exercise. The sce­the participants were members of a group of survivors of a plane crash in the desert. Each team went through a list of fif­teen items and rated its impor­tance to their survival. 
The exercise was a demon­stration for a six part problem solving method, which is: 
•Assess 
the Situation. 

•Identify 
the Problem. 

•Define 
the Goal. 

•Analyze 
the Forces. 


•Generate 
Alternate Strategies. 

•Implement/Evaluate 
the Plan. 


"The exercise really gave me some good insights into work­ing with the class council," said Cathy Basque, Freshman Class Vice President. 
The results of the exercise showed conclusively that peo­ple work better in groups than as individuals. Of the nine par­ticipants, only one person 


CE~ 



POINI 
Performers Musicians Technicians 
Berenstain Bears11" Specialty/Comic Performers 
Bloomington, Indiana Tuesday, Nov. 16, 1993 Holiday Inn 1710 Kinser Pike Musician Auditions: 3:30 -5:00 Performer Auditions: 5:00 -6:30 Technician & Berenstain Bear Interviews: 3:30 -6:30 pm 
Muncie, Indiana Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 Signature Inn 3400 North Chadam Lane Auditions & Interviews: 2:30 -4:30 pm 
Decatur, Illinois Thu~day, Nov. 18, 1993 Millikin University Richards Treat University Center Auditions & Interviews: 
1:30 -3:30 pm -Central Standard Time 
Also At Cedar Point: Friday. December 17, 1993 Friday, January 7, 1994 Auditions & Interviews: 
12:00 -4:00PM 
For additional sites and further information contact: Cedar Point Live Shows P.O. Box 5006 Sandusky, OH 44871-8006 (419) 627-2390 

------------~---------------~------­


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
Kevorkian freed after Gore, Perot showdown expected 
non-supporter posts bond 
By JULIA PRODIS 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Dr. Jack Kevorkian was get­ting so much attention from his jail-house hunger strike that a lawyer who doesn't support his role in assisted suicides put up $2,000 Monday and bailed him out. 
Kevorkian, who went to jail Friday rather than post bond himself, said he was disap­pointed to be leaving but added, "there's no way I could refuse. That would be uncon­scionably headstrong." 
Lawyer John DeMoss, who posted $2,000 in cash for the $20,000 bond. said he doesn't represent Kevorkian. DeMoss said he is sympathetic to termi­nally ill people who want to end their lives but does not support Kevorkian and his backers. 
"I think they've reduced the issue of suicide and assisted suicide to a hysterical bunch of rhetoric that has no meaning." DeMoss said from his office in Mount Clemens. "If I can get him out of jail and get those people to stop protesting in front of the jail and saying 'free Jack' and so forth, then I think my $2,000 is well spent." 
Later Monday at a news con­ference in the Southfield office of his attorney, Geoffrey Fieger. Kevorkian said he expects to be jailed again within days, this time for his role in the death of an Ann Arbor woman at his Royal Oak apartment. 
If jailed again. Kevorkian said he would resume the juice and water fast he began Friday to protest being taken into cus­tody. The retired pathologist went limp and had to be dragged otT to jail when Detroit 

Speak out 
continued from page I 
"A lot of us are at a frustrated level. We haven't decided how we should go about thinking and acting (on our calls to min­istry)," he said. 
Zuchlag also commented that religious life and formation need to be rPeonceived to fulfill Recorder's Court Judge Thomas E. Jackson levied a cash bond for Kevorkian's al­leged involvement in an Aug. 4 suicide. 
Kevorkian said he wouldn't post bond because it was forc­ing him to buy his freedom. 
Fieger said Sunday that the side effects of the hunger strike were already affecting his 65­year-old client. His problemS include nausea and a low­grade headache. his lawyer said. 
But on leaving jail Kevorkian said: "I feel all right. I met lots of nice people." 
A fsw hours later, about 150 people attended a meeting of the Michigan Commission on Death and Dying to discuss Michigan's assisted suicide ban. The commission will make a recommendation to the state Legislature on whether to uphold, abolish or modify the 8-month-old law. 
"Will the right to kill be fol­lowed by the duty to kill? Will the right to die be followed by the duty to die?" asked retired nurse Madeline Satwicz, adding that physician-assisted suicide "invites the end of compas­sionate health care." 
Laura Lopus, who said she was a health care professional, told the commission assisted suicide should be legalized. "This isn't about Jack Kevorkian or Geoffrey Fieger. This is about personal choice to say when enough is enough," she said. 
Michigan passed a ban on as­sisted suicides in response to Kevorkian's activities. He has been present at 19 suicides since June 1990. The new law carries a maximum sentence of four years in prison. 
their function. 
Another question raised asked if priests could relate to their community while living a celibate life. 
Deegan, a graduate student in the Masters of Arts and Theology program stated. "It is important for priests to have intimate relationships with women, whether by friendship or married love. before they can know what [the commu-
Before rou taka 

·? 
the rea MCAT, come and take a 

o1!B~~~EXAM
' 
1nd receive 
a zed 


By FRAZIER MOORE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
When Ross Perot and Vice President AI Gore lock horns Tuesday. will it be a debate or a publicity stunt? 
The professionals of broad­cast news, commenting from the sidelines, disagree about the importance of the special edition of CNN's "Larry King Live," which stages the Perot­Gore showdown over the North American Free Trade Agreement from 9 p.m. to 
10:30 p.m. EST. 
"King gets this debate be­cause he's got an active and ongoing forum, and he is by and large a benign force," said NBC anchor Tom Brokaw, "and if Larry King hosting this debate offends some journalis­tic purists-give me a break!" 
But Brokaw's boss, NBC News President Andrew Lack, accused Perot of ducking a mass viewing audience. 

U.S., Pakistan fail to agree on key issues 
ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

A top U.S. official met Pakistani leaders Mon. but failed to achieve any break­throughs on the most pressing regional issues -nuclear weapons and the disputed land of Kashmir. 
Robin Raphe!, an assistant secretary of state, held talks with Presiaent Wasim Sajjad on Mon., a day after meeting with Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. 
Bhutto. who's been in office less than a month, says her top foreign policy aim is to improve frayed relations with the U.S. 
"A window of opportunity has been opened for improved and positive relations." Bhutto was 
nity) is all about." 
The Speakout was sponsored by The Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women, Student 
Advocates  for  Inclusive  
Ministry.  the  Theology  
Department,  the  Women's  

Resource Center, Women United for Justice and Peace, and Gender Studies. 



The Controversy C:ontinueso,H 
TONIGHT 

Ph llis 
S~JiA~fly 

7:30pm Stepan $3 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
"For whatever reasons, I think he is afraid to come on REAL national television and have at this issue," Lack said. 
Average "Larry King Live" viewer ship is about 700,000 households, with 3.5 million households tuned to Perot's pre-Election Day appearance last year. Even with Tuesday's edition shared with some 350 CNN Television broadcast affil­iates for airing live or tape-de­layed, the total audience will be small compared with the Big Three networks. 
"Only the cognoscenti within the Beltway will likely see the program," Lack said. 
That's OK, contends ABC News correspondent Jeff Greenfield."This debate is not taking place in a vacuum," he said. "These two men go head­to-head, and then the rest of us can get our hands on them when we analyze what they said." 
From a dollars-and-cents per­spective, the Big Three broad-

quoted as saying by a spokesman. 
However, no substantive progress was reported on the two main issues. according to 
U.S. and Pakistani officials. 
Pakistan and rival India are both considered capable of building nuclear weapons. The United States wants the nations to end atomic programs. 
The United States has held separate talks with both sides recently, but neither country has shown any intention of signing the nuclear non-prolif­eration treaty. according to a 
THOMAS GEOGHEGAN 
Chit'ago Labor Attorney and Author 
"Passionate Unions: Labor Law Rejor1n and Econo1nic Recovery" 
Wednesday, Novcmhcr 10, 1993 
-t:30 p.m. 
Law School Courtroom 
Sponsor~d B)': Higgins Labor Research Ct·ntet· Centet· for Social Conn·rns Economics Depat·tment White Center on Law & Government senior U.S. official. 
Raphel heads a new State Department bureau devoted to South Asian affairs, and the nuclear build-up in the region is presently the top priority, said U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
U.S.-Pakistan ties have been strained since 1990, when Washington cut aid to Pakistan over the nuelear issue. Pakistan badly wants a resumption of aid, but Bhutto has made clear that Pakistan will preserve its nuclear capability as long as India does. 
cast networks might be happy to give cable's CNN this exclu­sive, particularly now. when they are locked in the November sweeps for ratings. 
The debate would almost cer­tainly draw fewer viewers than prime-time shows would. On the East Coast, the debate goes up against ABC's "Roseanne" and "Coach" and a Barbara Walters special. The film "Die Hard 2" will be on CBS. NBC is airing the final hour of "Victim of Love," a made-for-TV movie. and "Dateline NBC." 
But ratings are beside the point, said CBS News Vice President Lane Venardos, who questions the news value of the debate. 
"In my wildest dreams I don't see this as something CBS would break into its prime-time programming to cover live," Venardos said. "Here's a debate about a topic that is in­herently boring and in which there has been precious little interest across the country." 

TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
If you think you've come far in the past llHir years. you won't believe how t~lr you could go iri the ne;..:t live. 
If you've spent the past four years developing a solid technical background. we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Tra,·elers' Telecommunications Technology Management Program (TTMP). 
The most comprehensive training program of it's kind in the financial services industry, TTI\1P is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environment. Through a variety of rotational assignments and supplemental classroom study, TTMP is singly focused on developing the managers who will keep us on the cutting edge. 
If you have sign·ed up to interview, or haven't signed up but are interested in finding out more..... . 
Come to the TTMP 11ljormatio1l Session: 
Wednesday, November 10, 1993 
7 P.l\'1. 
LaFortune Student Centt:>r, Sorin Room 

THURS.,FRI.,SAT.,NOV.11, 12, 13AT8P.M. SUN., NOV. 14 AT 2:30P.M. 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
Local chieftans victorious in Jordan 
By TERRY LEONARD 
Associated Press 
AMMAN 

Jordanians flocked to the polls Mon. in the first multi­party elections since 1956, giv­ing King Hussein the heavy­turnout he sought to thwart powerful Muslim fundamental­ists opposed to the Middle East peace process. 
Hussein's secular, pro­Western government had feared a low turnout would fa­vor well-organized funda­mentalists, already the largest bloc in Parliament, and possibly deny the king a free hand in negotiating with Israel. 
But the Interior Ministry said sixty eight percent of the coun­try's 1.2 million registered vot­ers cast ballots, surpassing the 1989 turnout of sixty two per­cent. 
Lines of voters were so long at some polling places that they spilled into the streets and blocked traffic. Turnout was heaviest in rural areas where Bedouin tribesmen, some firing their rifles skyward in cele­bration, crowded into polling stations to support local chief­tains. 
First returns showed funda­mentalists set to lose six of the twenty two seats they held in the previous parliament. The 
.,.,.,.,."_",.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.",.,.,.,...,. TUESDAY .,.,.,.,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,., 
9 PM-12AM $1.00 per game! 

,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.",.,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,., .......,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,., THURSDAY .............·.·························-·.................·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·......................................... 
TIME BOWL 9:30-11:30 PM Only $10 per lane! 
.................·.·.·.····.·.··············'-"···························· STUDENT SPECIAL ··.w.·..·.···········-·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·...-··.·.·.··.·.·.···············-.····.·· 
Anytime! $1.35 per game Anytime! 

4210L.W. W. Phone 234 -4167 
results also showed one of Jordan's three women candi­dates, Toujan Faisal, leading. 
The first returns were too in­complete to forcast a trend. The Interior Ministry said definitive results from the hand-counting of paper ballots would not be available until Tuesday. 
Hours before the polls closed, the king again appealed pub­licly for a Parliament that would back his peace efforts. 
"I hope that we will see law­makers who will be able to carry out their duties because we all have to bear the respon­sibilities in this sensitive time toward the future," Hussein said. 
None of the twenty diverse and largely ill-defined parties had enough strength to win a majority and could hope only for bargaining power in forging a coalition. 
Despite the possible conse­quences for Arab-Israeli peace, the election was without a cen­tral, galvanizing issue, one that offered bewildering choices between 534 candidates ­most with only loose party affil­iations and vague campaign platforms. 
Balloting was only for the eighty seats in the lower house The forty-member upper house is appointed by the king. 

The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Who needs Riverboat gambling? 
Alumni Hall residents learn the complexities of bridge from Hall Rector Father George Rozum. Could this possible become a viable alternative to going out on the weekends? 

By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Boris Yeltsin set out his de­sign for the new post-Soviet Russia on Mon., with a draft constitution that bolsters his presidency and keeps a tight rein on Russia's restive regions. 
The constitution, which is to go before voters next month, lets Yeltsin serve out his five­year term until 1996 but sets lawmakers' terms at two years -half the length proposed ear­lier. 
The shorter terms and Yeltsin's retreat from a promise to hold early presidential elec­tions in June have fed criticism that he is strengthening his own power at the expense of the legislative branch. Since disbanding parliament and crushing resisters in early Oct., Yeltsin has wielded virtually absolute power. 
Supporters say the president, elected in 1991 and backed by a second popular vote in April, should serve out his term for stability's sake. They say par­liament, on the other hand, should turn over more rapidly to ensure a smoother transition while Russia undergoes tumul­tuous changes. 
Parliament will be chosen in national elections on Dec. 12, the same day as the referen­dum on the constitution . 
There is some anxiety that the new parliament's legitimacy may be compromised by a short campaign, the recent political violence, and Yeltsin's banning of several hard-line parties and publications. 
The old Supreme Soviet legis­lature had five-year terms, and Yeltsin stepped outside the con­stitution and disbanded it to stop it from blocking his free­market reforms and eroding his authority. 
He has long sought a new constitution to reflect the changes Russia has undergone since the 1991 Soviet collapse and provide a framework for more. 
The new document codifies much of what the post-Soviet legislature or Yeltsin already did by amendment or decree, such as abolishing censorship, guaranteeing privacy, and en­suring the right to buy and sell land. 
According to a working draft made public early this month, the president could declare a state of emergency and tem­porarily cut back on civil free­doms. It said, however, that laws spelling out the conditions under which he can declare a state of emergency have to be passed by the new parliament. 
The final draft of the constitu­tion is to be made public on Tuesday. 
The early draft also gives the president the right to disband the lower chamber if it rejects his candidate for prime minis­ter three times. 
A constitutional convention Yeltsin hand-picked in June has been drafting the charter. 
Working on the national holi­day observing Revolution Day, Yeltsin said Monday that he signed the draft with "a few 
amendments." 
His spokesman Anatoly Krasikov said he could not com­ment on any changes, and that the full text of the draft would be published Tuesday. 
But a presidential aide, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty, said the only major amend­ment was to abolish regional citizenships, meaning people would be citizens of the Russian Federation only. 
ACOMEDY BY LARRY SHUE DIRECTED BY JAMES P. BIRDER 
~ 
TheTravelersJ 
You're better off under the umbrella." 

MOREAU CENTER/UTILE THEATRE 
---e. . 
TICKETS $4 SM"S-ND COMMUNITIES; SaintMary's College
$3 STUDENTS; ON SALE AT THE 
NOTRE DAME·INDIANA 
SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE; INFORMATION, CHARGE ORDERS: 2191284-4626. 
page 6 The Observer· CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
2 FSU GAS FSU STUD BEST OFFER BY TH FREE DAVE McMAHON P.E Football players, BEST OFFER EVE x1692 Congrats on a great season. We may have 
Classifieds 

X0715 Adoption Is Love lost, BUT we still have the coolest team. 
continued from page II 
FSU stud tlx. $50 or best offer. call Flounder x4246 

I have 6 GA's lor FSU showdown. Taking best offer. 273-6082. 
FSU and/or BC studenlllx lor sale. Call634-1680. Must sell. 
FOR SALE: 2 BC GA'S CALL x2824 WITH OFFER 
1 FSU GA & 1 STUD tix. Call 272-1208. Baby needs a new pair of shoes! 

2 FSU GAs 4 Sale Great seats call Ted 4-1699 
For Sale: 2 FSU GAs. Call 273-9805 and Leave Offer. 

tarsale 411o st ga 284-5144 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ FOR SALE: 2 FSU SENIOR STUD TIX together-will separate. IDs incl. l'lllhrow in BC Ill like you! Best offer Jason 232-2263,1-6888 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I have best seals at World Cup 94 (Real Football)->1 Will trade them lor FSU GA's. Bill: 273-2823. 
Alumni is looking to trade 4 FSU Ga's and cash lor better seats. Also 1n need of BC stud.+ Ga's Call216-867-5775 
3 PAIRS OF FSU TIX: $950/PAIR OR BEST OFFER. CALL JOE AT (219) 634-1624 BETTY 
1 FSUGA 
BEST OFFER 
273-4193 
TRACY 
NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$ LV MSG@ X2859 SHANNON 
FOR SALE-ONE FSU GA X3436 ASK FOR BRENDAN 
ORANGE FIELD Pass needed! In-Laws need pass to party lor FSU game. Please Help I 299-0641. 
Need FSU Stu & GA T1x Ericx1087 
FSU stud. tix for sale Reasonable Pnce Call Heather at 284-5097 
!!CHECK IT OUT!! I have tix lor sale on the 50 yard line. I know you want them so call x0824 and make an offer 
2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL 313-851­0614. 
For Sale: FSU GA's & Stud. Call L1sa@ 259-8135 
Selling FSU Stu tckt. Best Offer 233-9382 alterS P.M. 
ND FSU tix 4 sale call with best offer X4220 
For Sale Sale, 2 FSU stu, 272-3263. Best Offer 
For sale: FSU GA, call Chris @ 217-337-7605 
2FSU GAs 4SALE-CALL .JON 215-630­9329 
FSU STUD TIX FOR SALE Call Scott at x-1 071 
NEED 2 FSU STUD OR GA'S FOR MY LIT­TLE BROTHERS. DAVE (313) 851-8498. 
PERSONAL 
Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad, laughter and music in a country home lor your baby. Please call L,ynda and Pat at 1-800-226­5172 anytime. 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369-2597 Loving Indiana medical professionals eager to adopt newborn. Med1caVLegal paid. Confidential. Call our home toll free to hear all about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224-2429. 
2 FSU GAs and Parking Pass lor sale. Best offer by 11/11. Call Dave, 4-2246. 
Hey you guys!!!! Mud wants to buy the 1-shirt ,"Why do all the trees on campus bend to the west...?" Call her today so she will no longer be naked. X2575. 
• ... and on the plus s1de, COW DUNG." 
Lad1es of Columbus: Women's Care Center Speaker Postponed from 11/9 to 11/23 due to conflict with Schlally/Weddmgton debate 
To the Geology Major who helped us with our map on Saturday: Thank You so much for helpmg us!! You are a GODIIIII Molly, Michelle and Amy 
Thanks lor the great season. The coaches 
I need a ride down l-75to at least Chattanooga forT-giving. If you can help, please call Ken at x4245. 
Are you hungry for Chinese food? Then come to the ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION 
ASIAN DINNER NIGHT 
Wednesday, 6 p.m., CSC if your have questions or would like to purchase a ticket call Jeannie(x4978) or Erica(x4950) tickets are $5, $4 lor paid members 
HOUSE PARTYIIHOUSE PARTY!! hosted by the ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION Fnday, Nov. 12, 9:30pm-1:30am LaFortune Ballroom admission. $3, $2 for paid 
members HOUSEPARTYIIHOUSEPARTYII 

The Contr~i;~iJn;ontinues ... 


7:30pm Stepan $3 
Tickets Available at the L..aFortune Info Desk 

~Interested in Arts and Letters? ~Iced assistance on how to choose amajor? 
Then consider attending the informational sessions in 117 O'Shaughnessy on Tues., Nov. 9! 
SPECIAL PROGRAMS FAIR: 
CONCENTRATIONS, AREA STUDIES, AND SECOND MAJORS 
•European 
Area Studies 

•African 
Studies 

•Latin 
American Studies 

•Societ 
Studies 

•Second 
Major Special Programs 

•African 
American Studies 

•CAPP 
(Computer Applications) 

•Arts 
and Letters Preprofessional 


Concentrations 

•Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
•Peace Studies 
•Gender Studies 

•Science, Technology & Values 
•Film and Cultural Studies 
•Medieval Studies 

•Mediterranean Studies 
•PPE (Philosophy, Politics, and Economics) 

---~---~-~--..,......---~-----------------------~-----­
BUSINESS 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993 page 7 
University Club forges mark of excellence with anniversary 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT result is able to end the year Business Writer with a profit, according to Deguara. 
This past Saturday evening All revenue is collected the University Club held a spe­through a billing procedure cial dinner and dance in cele­which is done through the bration of the club's silver an­club's office. All meal and niversary. But this is not the drink charges are made by ac­only reason the club has to count numbers which are print­celebrate. Since its founding in ed on membership cards, which 1968, it has forged itself into also serve as entrance keys. the Notre Dame community as Because of the club's mem­one of the prime dining loca­bership policy and its position tions on campus. as a service to the Notre Dame 
The University Club of Notre community, the club is not seen Dame has been, for 25 years, "a as having any direct competi­place of hospitality" for its tion. members according to John "The prosperity of the club Deguara, the club's manager for the past quarter century can for the past 12 years. be attributed to a commitment 
Deguara stated that the club to quality and being personable, has a current member list of gracious, and getting to know 7600 people and has "grown our members," said Deguara. considerably" since the current "We see ourselves as a pri­facility opened. Club members vate restaurant...but even with include University faculty and this exclusivity, there is no way professional staff, alumni, and we could accommodate every­members of the University's one who wishes to use the Sorin Society and the Law club." School's St. Thomas Moore Deguara added that making Society. reservations is a near impos­
Annual membership dues sibility particularly on home range from $10 for retired fac­football weekends. For exam­ulty to $120 for alumni and ple, reservations for Friday and The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 
After 25 years of service, the University Club has established itself as one of the premier dining locations 
associate members. As op­Saturday nights are made the 
within the Notre Dame community. 
posed to The Huddle or The Monday before and are com­
lar attendees which numbers an atrium would be a likely enters his thirteenth year as
Morris Inn, all funding comes pletely filled by the end of the 2500 members. Deguara said consideration to enhance and manager and the club continues 
from membership dues and day. 
that the club will be less prof­complement the display of 350 _to expand, Deguara is confident profits from dining revenues. So as to continue its close it_able this year than it has been steins and tankards collected by that the club will continue toAccording to Deguara, the relationship with its members, in the past because of the large Gore from all over the world. things the old-fashioned wasUniversity Club is faced with a the club attempts to keep its pa­annual parking fee it must pay In addition, an entrance on instead of the easy way. 
unique position because, trons well informed. "Our 
to the University and because of the East side of the building The club was founded in 1958 although it is on campus, it is newsletter is basically the only the membership discounts of­would allow access from the as the Faculty Club of Notrenot affiliated with the means of marketing the club," fered this year for the twenty­new Debartolo Quad and is like­Dame, a gift from the lateUniversity. stated Deguara. 
fifth anniversary. ly to be considered once the Robert Gore, a formerDue to its autonomy from The club's greatest difficulty Looking to the future, new business building has been Governor of Puerto Rico andUniversity Food Services, it to date has been fmding enough Deguara sees plans for expand­completed. member of the advisory council enjoys no special buying privi­parking space. Current parking ing the current facilities. "What we do we do our best, for the College of Businessleges. This also allows the club accommodates only a fraction Expanding the dining area with and we know it," he said. As he Administration.
to do its own payroll and as a of the club's contingent of regu-

House members undecided on NAFTA 
By RON FOURNIER "I think we'll pull it off," R-Mass., announced his deci­Associated Press Secretary of Treasury Lloyd sion while visiting a New Bentsen stated. "We've got the Bedford, Mass., manufacturing 
WASHINGTON momentum on our side," said plant. 

Opponents of the North chief of staff Mack McLarty. Supporters of the pact said American Free Trade With a House vote set for next neither side could yet count Agreement nervously claimed Wednesday, three lawmakers enough votes to be sure of pre­the votes Monday to scuttle the announced their opposition vailing. "Basically, it's hand-to­pact, even as President Clinton during the day to the treaty hand combat for every undecid­pressed for support among that is designed to create a ed member," said Rep. Bill wavering House members. free-trade zone for the United Richardson, D-N.M.. a leading 
'We have the votes now, but States, Canada and Mexico. supporter. of course we need more," said One, Rep. Pat Williams, D­Bonior's comments were House Democratic whip David Mont., said he was doing so echoed by a leading GOP oppo­Bonior, in comments indicating because a 5-year-old Canadian nent of the treaty. Clinton might be able to peel free trade agreement has "We're at 220 (votes) ... It's away some opponents. "turned out to be bad, very bad dead if everybody holds," said 
The president conducted for Montana's agriculture pro­Rep. Gerald Solomon of New three meetings at the White ducers. Primarily for that rea­York. He added, "Don't under­House with two or three law­son I will vote no on NAFTA." estimate the power of the White makers at a time, then invited A second, Rep. Jim Saxton, R­House." 15 or 20 more over for dinner. N .J., noted concerns over short­Adding spice to the show­He conceded Sunday the treaty term job losses, environmental down was Tuesday night's tele­was about 30 votes shy of a safeguards and "national sov­vised debate between Vice House majority, but the admin­ereignty" in announcing his President Al Gore and Ross istration's predictions were decision. Perot. The two will appear on upbeat. The third, Rep. Peter Blute, CNN's "Larry King Live." 
MARKET ROUND UP BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Airline requests gambling on international flights 
By PHILIP BRASHER computer. Associated Press Virgin Atlantic Airways, a 
British carrier, and Singapore 
WASHINGTON Airlines are going to provide 
Northwest Airlines asked video poker, blackjack and Congress on Monday to allow other games on their flights. gambling on international Virgin Atlantic competes with routes s{) it can compete with Northwest on between Boston the casino games of two for­and London; the Singapore eign carriers. carrier competes with 
Gambling could be added to Northwest in Asia. an interactive video system "Games of chance, whether that Northwest installed on six you like them or not, have be­of its planes, Richard Hirst, come a very important part of general counsel of the Eagan, our culture," said Hirst. Minn.,-based airline., told the Flight attendants worry that Senate aviation subcommittee. in-flight gambling could saddle 
Passengers would activate them with unruly, agitated the games with cards pur­passengers. chased at the gate or from "The entertainment of a few flight attendants and then could interfere with the rights redeem their winnings on of many," said Dee Maki, pres­arrival. The video screens are ident of the Association of controlled by an on-board Flight Attendants. 
Daily market·roundup 
..  
{'-J  .....  ~  'v­ 
.r  v \  :;.;;;  
v  


3725 3675 3625 3575 3525 3475 3425 
8/1/93 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 12/1/93 

BRUSSELS­ ARLINGTON  NEWYORK  
Making a united stand against their trading partners. European  Fligbt.~.~ten~ants at Ameri~f!l} Airlines plan ~o strike earlier tliari  Officials from16 states asked fast-food restaurants to ban  
Community nations blamed the  ()ri~~py pl~nn~d. ~etting .<l. dead~  ·.... smoking, saying it if! ;tlUrting  
United States, Canada and Japan  lill;~'of N()v: 1~;  on,~wee~ before  '\§!young customers and workers.  
for holding up a global trade deal. Foreign ministers of the dozen EC  T})f:J.nksgiying•.llniop __ leadel"s said: 11J)a ?t.OPQ. meinbers..9f the  Attorneys general from"15 states the:;; Haw~ii O,ficei()f  
nations called on Washington Monday tzspeed up talks to meet a Dec. 15 deadline for ending the  ASsociation of Professional Flight A:tt~ndan:t~atthe c~rrier hf!dbe~n threateriittg tosttil~e by Nov. 22 if  Consumer Protection:jssued a report Monday entitled ·:.:F8:st Food, GroWing Children f.l,n:d  
Uruguay Round of trade negotia­ a new co:iitractagreement was not  Passive Smoke: A Danger  

t!te. ·--~•neral,iK\U.<.tt1·t~il~IJ"'~~t:l '!JlP tJ;te, .. ~~o...v,~t."-'>'-h+"•· Mel1.9·•· But a spoke,sJn:an .· .. and Kentucky Fried Chicken Corp. the request to ban smoking is 
·=.=·=·m· 
AP 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: 1'.0. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager...................... Sreph Goldman  
Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Parrick Barth  
Photo F.ditor .................................jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor .............jennifer llabrych  Controller ........•..••..••...•.•....•.•......... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not· necessarily reflect the policies of the adminima­lion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objeccivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notr< Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The frCC" C'Xprcssion ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541  Day Editor/Production 631-5303  
Business Office 631-5313  Advertising 631-6900/8840  
s 631-4543~~Photo 631-5323  Systems/OTS 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471  
FRANK PIMENTEL  
Last month the United States  
Supreme Court declined to hear  
a New Jersey case, J.M. v. V.C.,  
which would have given the  
Court a real chance to show its  
moxie and do justice. Despite  
establishing a woman's "liberty  
interest" in procuring an abor­ 
tion, which appears firm with  
pro-choice Justice Ginsburg's  
ascension to the Court replac­ 
ing anti-floe Justice White, the  
Supreme Court has not  
addressed the real question in  
its 20 years of abortion  begins remains legally unre­ 
jurisprudence. What is an  solved. Scientifically, however,  
unborn child? Is it a life or  the question seems beyond 
not? In evading the question, a  doubt.  
question that so often also stops  First, however, it would be  
pro-choicers in their tracks, the  instructive to briefly survey 
Court has muddled its thinking  what our Supreme Court has  
on abortion. J.M. would have  stated over the years on the life  
resolved the question.  issue. First, 20 years ago in  
J.M., a 38-year-old man,  Roe v. Wade~ the Court curious­ 
impregnated his 32-year-old  ly held on the one hand that,  
girlfriend, V.C., and V.C. then  "the word 'person,' as used in  
announced her intention to  the Fourteenth Amendment,  
abort the child. J.M. protested  does not include the unborn."  
and was willing to marry V.C.  Nearly in the same breath,  
or, in the alternative, separate­ however, the court then said, 
ly raise the child.  "We need not resolve the diffi­ 
Consequently, he filed suit to  cult question of when life  
prevent V.C. from having the  begins." 
abortion.  Finally, the Court solidified its  
New Jersey Superior Court  confusion by maintaining, "In  
Judge Patrick McGann recog­ short, the unborn have never  
nized the U.S. Supreme Court's  been recognized in the law as  
shortcoming, and while his  persons in the whole sense."  
injunction to prevent the abor­ While factually a true state­ 
tion was reversed, he was will­ ment, that hardly leaves one  
ing to oversee a trial to resolve  reassured that the Justices  
the factual question of when life  were comfortable with the  
begins.  grounding of their statement.  
This, however, required that  Nevertheless, it became one of  
the father have legal standing  the justifications for last year's  
to assert his and the unborn  reaffirmation of "Roe's central  
(and now dead) child's rights.  holding" in Planned Parenthood  
Those competing arguments  v. Casey. 
proceeded through the courts  In his separate opinion there  
(against the father) until, with­ and in reference to Roe, Justice  
out comment. the U.S. Supreme  Stevens explained, "as a matter  
Court declined to hear the case;  of federal constitutional law, a  
thus the issue of when life  
DOONESBURY  


BOOP5Jt! I 
THW3HTI lDW '!W Na!t:R. 70CAUM&IN 

developing organism that is not yet a 'person' does not have what is sometimes described as a 'right to life.' This has been and, by the Court's holding today, remains a fundamental 
' I n short, the unborn have never been rec­ognized.... as persons in the whole sense.' 
premise of our constitutional law governing reproductive autonomy." 
Most egregiously. however, the Court pointed out the "no change in Roe's factual under­pinning has left its central hold­ing obsolete, and none supports an argument for overruling it." This is to say that today we do not know anything more about the beginning of life then we knew 20 years ago; or at least not enough to warrant a differ­ent decision. This is not true. 
Notre Dame Law Professor Douglas W. Kmiec, a former Assistant Attorney General of the United States, has pointed out that recombinant DNA tech­nology and DNA fingerprinting have been used in much advanced scientific work over 
NO, JU5T f£TOUT fY 7Her<F;...
AT OAYC'AR£:. 

the last five years to prove that human life begins at concep­tion. Dr. Jerome LeJeune, a French geneticist who discov­ered the chromosomal abnor­mality resulting in Downs Syndrome, had been instru­mental in this work and has testified to its results. Or con­sider a simpler concept, that once the 23 chromosomes from the sperm have fertilized the 23 chromosomes from the ovum, all genetic information is in place. None is gained or lost. 
Can anybody determine a point in time after conception when something happens to change the status of an unborn child? Viability, as a possible answer, is relative to medi­cine's capabilities. Live birth, as another possible answer, is artificial since children are just as dependent after birth as they are before. Only growth and development take place from conception forward; no change in nature occurs. These are not theological or moral edicts, rather scientific conclusions combiried with philosophical realism. 
But the Court's abdication on this issue is problematic for another reason as well. Why is it that the Court has rejected a father's interest in seeing that 
HEARTS AND MINDS 

his child be born, and yet courts routinely hold fathers responsible monetarily via paternity suits? Since the deci­sion was made in Planned Parenthood v. Danforth (a 1976 case whose ruling was reaf­firmed and extended last year in Casey) that "we cannot hold that the State has the constitu­tional authority to give the spouse unilaterally the ability to prohibit the wife from terminat­ing her pregnancy, when the State itself lacks that right," consistency would dictate that, therefore, men cannot be held against their will responsible for raising children. Women who do not want to be responsi­ble for their children may abort them; what corollary "right" does a man have? 
Of course, Danforth is wrong on a much more fundamental ground as well. Is it acceptable that the State (and only the State) grants us our rights, or does God give them to us as the Declaration of Independence says ("that all Men ... are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights ... ")? 
Casey and Roe point out many concurs which legislators would have to address if an unborn child were declared life within the meaning of the 14th Amendment, but that is pre­cisely what our representatives are paid to do,. And it is the Judiciary's job to "say what the Constitution means." This requires a good faith effort which the Court has passed on once again. The slaughter con­tinues. 
Frank Pimentel is a 1987 Notre Dame graduate and cur­rently a third-year student in the Law School. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
()-{,MY 

/!JUl., WAIT, 7RY 70 FINO TH8 
YeAH, THE=
5Ht'5FIN8. 
HOW ON,
600.' 

INSURANC&-PAP#!S... ANO IF 
TANONt5.
IJO YOU WANT 
IGOTTA
t-VHm-s 

7HtRt's TIM8, MY8AstBAU. 
ANOMY 
fiNOA
M& W ll?.Y70
5AM 7 

CAR/JS... ANOMAY/38 MY 
f}f3(}[;()~­
5il/vtIWYTHING~ 
PEIVGL-... 

fX(J(£/?5 5tACJ<S... 
ANT...
\ / 
I
\ 

'uhhhhhh......huh,huh.... huh,huh,huh....What?' 
Burthead 

Tuesday, November 9, 1993 page9
VIEWPOINT 
Is the prohibition of female ordination a heresy? 
Dear Editor: 
George Santayana, the Spanish-born American philosopher. prophetically penned in 1905, "Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it." 
Unfortunately, today the Roman Catholic Church stands on the brink of violating Santayana's wise dictum. Recent events like the resound­ing Vatican denunciation of the move by the Church of England to ordain women as priests, as 

well as the meeting of the Christ. After all, was not the United States Catholic Bishops Lord from the house of David? to discuss their pastoral letter Had He not said, "I was sent 
on women, have brought the only to the lost sheep of the prohibition against the ordina­house of Israel."? (Matt. 15:24) tion of women in the Roman Had He not commanded His Catholic Church to the front apostles to, "Go nowhere burner once again in contempo­among the Gentiles, and enter rary times. While there have no town of the Samaritan," but been several sound and persua­instead to the Jews alone? sive challenges to this exclu­(Matt. 10:5-6b) Surely, the sionary practice, both theologi­Judaizers reasoned, and had cal and ecclesial. there exists even temporarily persuaded an authoritative, Scripturally Peter and Barnabus, the only chronicled, historical parallel­way a Gentile could enter the the controversy over the inclu­Kingdom of God was by circum­sion of the Gentiles at the cision. In essence, one must Council of Jerusalem as become a Jew. detailed in Acts and Galatians. Paul, however, a once zealous If an interpretation of this par­member of the Pharisees,...rec­allel carries undeniable weight, ognized the inherent fallacy of the prohibition against the ordi­the Judaizers' claim. Not only nation of women in the Roman did such a claim reverse Paul's Catholic Church could be analo­understanding of the law as a gously understood as a denial mechanism for spiritual of the reality of the bondage, it fundamentally Resurrection-in essence, a denied the reality of the heresy against Christ. Resurrection. Part of the uni­
According to Paul's and versal salvific significance of Luke's slightly different Jesus being raised from the accounts of the story. in dead resided in the revelation response to the growing con­that in Christ the old separation version of the Gentiles, a dele­between Jew and Gentile had gation of converted Jews, or been permanently vanquished "Judaizers," (Luke calls them (See Gal. 3:28). In his under­"certain individuals from standing of the Resurrection, Judea" in Acts 15:1 and Paul recognized that God had "believers who belonged to the extended the promise of sect of the Pharisees" in Acts Abraham to everyone. 
15:5. Paul calls them "false Circumcision of the heart, not believers" in Gal 2:4.) began of the penis, made one achild declaring that observance of in the House of Israel. Though the Mosaic law, specifically the the Judaizers persisted in custom of circumcision, was thwarting Paul's apostolic prerequisite for salvation in 
Observer disservices 
Student Government 
Dear Editor: discretion. In addition, the 
The Observer did a great dis­absence of summaries pertain­
service to Student Government ing to a few of the courses was 
and the Student Body by their normally due to a lack of 
harsh analysis of The Guide responses received from the 
(The Observer, Nov. 5). students in that class. 
Admittedly, the booklet is I hope that after viewing The 
small, but this is due not to a Guide, professors will find it to 
lack of enthusiasm by the stu-be a fair and professionally 
written evaluation and will 
choose to participate in upcom­
ing semesters. Yes, improve­

' It must be stressed 
ments do need to be made, andthat participation in the constructive comments of The Guide was volun­
The Observer and the Student Body are welcome and will be

tary.... ' 
considered, but The Observer 
did a great disservice to the 
Student Body by criticizing the 

dent body, nor because of a efforts of Student Government 
lack of effort by Student to improve undergraduate edu­
Government. Rather, it must be cation rather than encouraging 
stressed that participation in more professors to participate 
The Guide was voluntary and in The Guide. By criticizing this 
completely up to professors. first publication of The Guide, 
All undergraduate professors the Observer chose to focus on 
were contacted during the the negative aspects of a first 
Spring Semester, 1993, asking attempt instead of encouraging 
for their participation in The the expansion and development 
Guide. Those who returned nei­of the project. The Observer, as 
ther a positive nor a negative a student newspaper, missed 
response were personally con­an opportunity to utilize its 
tacted. Although we highly potential to be the voice of the 
encouraged each professor's students. 
involvement, we were not per­SARA SKALICKY 
mitted to make it mandatory Co-Chair The Guide 
and participation was left solely Notre Dame Student Goverment 
to the individual professor's 
efforts in Asia Minor, his under­standing of an inclusive salva­tion won the day at the Council of Jerusalem, thereby altering the course of Christianity forev­er. 
In a sense, many of today's Roman Catholic religious authorities, especially in Rome, have adopted the logic of the Judaizers. In response to the vigorous challenge in the later part of this century by those who question the policy of exclusion, the official hierarchi­cal magisterium has cited two arguments, one ecclesial, the other theological, to insure its continued prohibition against women to the ordained min­istry. The ecclesial argument, cited by the U.S. Catholic Bishops from their 1972 confer­ence, states that the constant tradition and practice of the church not to ordain women is divine law. This argument invokes the richness of Catholicism's notions concern­ing the sacredness of tradition and the supremacy of the Church to interpret revelation 
(e.g. Scripture-in-tradition) in an unerring manner in regards to faith. The interpretation of the historical precedence of Jesus' actions during his min­istry (i.e. Jesus chose men and not women to be his apostles) provides the foundation for their argument. This claim cap­tures similar attitudes held by most, including Peter, in the Jerusalem Church around the time of the Council: followers of Christ should maintain their identification with Judaism. After all, they probably rea­soned, had not Jesus, whom they called Rabbi, entrusted only Jews with His ministry? With all due charity. one has to wonder if the Bishops have for­gotten one of the most crucial events in sacred tradition; the outcome of the controversy at the Council of Jerusalem. 
Though the ecclesial argu­ment relies on the authority of tradition in history, it avoids more serious theological issues. The Vatican, on the other hand, has drawn a more rigid theo­logical line in the sand with the sword of "Inter Insigniores" ("Declaration on the Question of the Admission of Women to the Ministerial Priesthood"), the 1976 document published by the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith under the leadership of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger. Under the aegis of in persona Christi. in the person of Christ this document restates the age old theological argu­ment that because women nat­urally bear no resemblance to Jesus Christ, a biological male, God therefore did not intend for women to be priests. Following Aquinas' sacramental logic that every sacramental sign must represent what it signifies by a natural resemblance," "Inter Insigniores" reasons that because the priest at the words of institution of the Eucharist 
represents Christ, no woman could therefore perform such an act. Such a justification of exclusion strikes at the same chords the Judaizers of long ago played, sounding such harsh cacophony in the ears of Paul. Does the magisterium only recognize the first and sec­ond part {one could argue that the social justice papal encycli­cals demonstrate an acknowl­edgment that there is neither "slave or free") of Galatians and not the third where it is also claimed that in Christ there is neither male nor female? Further, by predicating both their ecclesial and theological arguments upon events during Jesus' lifetime, the hierarchical magisterium has presumed that the Resurrection is nonessential to faith in Christ and has no bearing on ongoing Church practices. With Paul, one could argue that such a denial of the reality of resurrection is bla­tantly antithetical to Christian faith. And finally, just for the sake of argument, if the magis­terium fully adopted the logic of the Judaizers, only circum­cised males, preferably of Jewish descent, could be ordained as priests in the Church of Jesus Christ. Such a standard might even call into question the Pope's own ordi­
nation status. 
The comparisons between today's controversy and the one of almost two thousand years ago are striking. One might even say that the similarities are incontrovertible. Yet, just as the Holy Spirit triumphed in history at the Council of Jerusalem, most likely the Spirit will endure over time in this matter as well. Perhaps the only thing still needed is a Paul to oppose Peter to his face for his blatant hypocrisy (Gal. 2: 13). History, especially sacred, scriptural history, must not be forgotten. 
GREG ZUSCHLAG 

Graduate Student in Theology 
Grace Hall 


Dear Editor: 
When does freedom of the press end and the legal charge of libel begin? Perhaps this question should be debated by the Notre Dame Law School. Or perhaps legal charges should be brought against The Observer and its wildly out of control Editor-in-Chief. Or maybe it is just time that the Notre Dame community rally to tell this newspaper that it ought to use more discretion in its reporting. 
Three weeks ago I was improperly apprehended by a SUDS officer in conjunction with a raid of an off-campus party. When the officer discov­ered I was over twenty-one and could not be charged with underage drinking, he charged me with "Disorderly Conduct". The charge was fallacious and was promptly dropped when reviewed the next week. My record was expunged and as far as the police are concerned, the event never occurred. 
However in the eyes of The Observer and its Editor-in Chief, David Kinney, I was guilty when charged. Despite being told that the charge was incorrect and was being dropped, Mr. Kinney malicious­ly printed my name in an arti­cle about the raid, feeling that the real facts should not get in the way of a story. Who was I to try to spoil his desire to drag another student's reputation down (in fact, two students in this case) with the "rest of the story." 
You see, fellow students, I explained the "rest of the story" to Mr. Kinney the evening before the story ran. So did another student who has the same name as me but in news print cannot be distinguished and therefore was doubly wronged by this. Mr. Kinney's callous justification for printing this misleading story was: "We printed a similar story last year when Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose were arrested. We must adhere to this precedent or be accused of discrimina­tion." That's the defense Mr. Kinney used when confronted with the real truth. 
To make matters worse, 
when both Keith Anderson (the 
· other student) and I asked that The Observer print a follow up story to attempt to right the wrong that was done by this demeaning story, Mr. Kinney stated unequivocally that another policy of The Observer was to not print follow up sto­ries in these situations. Wow! 
My fellow students, I was wronged. So was the other Keith Anderson. If you agree, it is time you speak up with your opinion about Mr. Kinney, whose head has gotten too big for his position. 
KEITH W. ANDERSON Senior Off-Campus 
Editor's note: The Observer identified Mr. Anderson as "Keith W. Anderson, an off­campus resident." to avoid con­fusion. 
While The Observer generally is not notified when charges against a student are dropped, it does not have a policy against running such informa­tion. 
~----·-~-­
ACCENT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
Students take action to assist flood victims 
ByTOMMORAN versus something meaningful to Elsberry, right on the Acam Writer do." Mississippi River. Darrin Cook, another Flanner What we saw was a scene of 
Many Notre Dame and Saint senior and a member of the devastation. The houses had Mary's students see fall break trip's planning committee, saw been built on 15-foot stilts to as an opportunity to spend a that something needed to be protect them from floods, but restful week at home with fami­done to help the flood victims, the water had still risen into the ly and friends. Badin senior "So many people forget or don't homes. The houses still stood, Aimee Lafreniere, instead, saw realize that there is still a lot of but their interiors were ruined. it as an opportunity to help work down there. They're still Some had been filled with those less fortunate than her­in the process of dealing with a water for months, and every self. disaster." The majority of us on object inside them was not sal­
She originated the idea of a the trip were not personally vageable. Even the interior contingent of Notre Dame stu­affected by the disaster; we walls, which were covered with dents and alumni traveling to simply saw a chance to help mold, had to be ripped out. the Midwest to help the victims some people very much in Lawns that had once been neat­of this summer's devastating need. . ly manicured were now cracked floods. Over fall break, 83 Lafreniere brought the idea to expanses of thick river mud. A Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Father Tom McDermott and once prosperous community students (including myself) Student Body President Frank had been turned into a practi­trekked to St. Louis to turn this Flynn. These 3, along with a cally uninhabited expanse of 
planning committee consisting ruined homes. 
' If you found a personal of Cook, Meg Brennan, Suzy Some of my group stayed at 
Fodor, Liz Clifton, and Jen the marina and began cleaning
item, like a teddy bear 

Tilghman, outlined the plans the ubiquitous mud out of hous­
or a baseball card, it just for the expedition. Brennan es. Two other students and reminded you that peo­secured the help of the Alumni myself traveled to a nearby Association, which was very community, only to behold an
ple lived there before. 

crucial to the trip's success. even greater scene of devasta­We're tearing down the Alumni donations helped defray tion. The house I worked at had a large amount of the cost of lost over half of its walls and its
walls of these people's 

the trip, and several alumni floor had begun to collapse.houses...' worked in St. Louis alongside Several nearby houses had Darrin Cook 
the students. been reduced to two-dimen­On Sunday evening, we ar­sional piles of debris with roofs rived by bus at our place of on top of them. idea into a reality. lodging, a seminary outside of Before that day I could not a baseball card, it just remind­the greatest group of people 
Lafreniere, a Maine native, St. Louis. Our accommodations fully comprehend just what a ed you that people lived there with whom I have ever had the was not directly affected by the were more than adequate, but true disaster the flood had before. We're tearing down the pleasure of working. flood. However, she was deeply we all knew that we weren't in been, but the sight of houses walls of these people's hous­Others from the trip agreed affected by what she saw on St. Louis to be comfortable. We that had been simply demol­es ... " with my sentiments. Lafreniere television. Her journal entry for went off to work on Monday ished truly opened my eyes. All Badin sophomore Holly said that "the people were real­August 3 reads "The more pic­morning, week long, we saw nothing but Campbell summed up her work ly cooperative" and "always tures I see on TV, and the more The Salvation Army, which houses ruined by the flood, experience: "Physically, it was willing to help." I think, the more I want to go to coordinated our relief efforts, some so badly they were des­strenuous, but it wasn't hard Schimmel said that the "con­Iowa or Missouri and do some split us up into ten groups and tined to be bulldozed. The because of what we were doing. geniality and openness struck social work for a week. This is drove us off to flood-ravaged flood may have dropped from It wasn't unrewarding." She me." the year for me to do some areas. It was at the Salvation the headlines, but anyone who also felt that the work was I can't help but agree whole­good for someone else. I'm sick Army headquarters that we went on this expedition can say more fulfilling "when the home­heartedly with Campbell when of worrying about myself and were first told the nature of our that the Midwest is by no owners were there and I found she called the flood relief trip my own problems." work. We would essentially means back to normal. out about their lives." "One of the best weeks in my 
Lafreniere's desire to help spend the week assisting home­Several things about the work One of the most amazing as­life." others was echoed by all the owners in throwing away dam­stand out to the students who pects of the trip, though, did Lafreniere summed up the students that went along on the aged items and cleaning thick took part in the trip. Cook not deal with the work at all. trip perfectly in saying "Not trip. Flanner senior Eric river mud from their houses. found the work emotionally The group of Notre Dame and only did we do a lot of work and Schimmel saw it as a choice My group headed to a marina draining: "lf you found a per­Saint Mary's students that went help a lot of people, but I feel between "something fun to do on the outskirts of the town of sonal item, like a teddy bear or to St. Louis was, in my opinion, like I've made 82 new friends." 


Accelerated nursing program facilitates career change 
By PATTI CARSON part in the program. One such to pursue a career in nursing. Accent Wrjrer student is Kristina Fierens of From a variety of different 
According to Indianapolis Mishawaka. backgrounds, these women are Monthly Magazine, the average Fierens. a graduate of in the classroom together for at American changes jobs five Catholic University with an least nine hours a day three times in his or her life span. English majior, at age 26 decid­times a week. Their other two That switch, however, is often a ed to go back to school to weekdays are spent working in long and demanding transition. obtain a nursing degree. a hospital. These six women Saint Mary's College is offering must also fulfill the nursing a solution to this problem for 'The only drawback is clinical requirements of the those women seeking a career that you must put state of Indiana in combination change involving nursing. with their 17-20 semester cred­
your life on hold for that 

Registration is currently open it hours. for the accelerated nursing pro­year since the program is Upon completion of the pro­gram at Saint Mary's. This 13 gram, students are eligible to
so rigorous. There's no

month program leads to the de­take the National Council gree of bachelor of science with time for anything except Licensure Examination a major in nursing. (NCLEX-RN) to become regis­
school.' 

It is especially designed for tered nurses.
Kristina Fierens 

those who have already "The cost of the program is received a bachelors degree or about the same as a year's tu­advanced degrees in non-nurs­Because of her specialization in ition at Saint Mary's-close to ing areas. The program is also the field of English, she fulfilled $20.000," said Fierens. ideal for older students, individ­the science necessary to enroll "Though it's costly, it's an uals looking for a change of in the accelerated program by excellent program for those careers or those who have attending classes at a nearby seeking to make a career taken time out to raise a family. college in Michigan. change within a year." 
The program will run from Fierens is currently enrolled "The only drawback is that June of 1994 to the summer of in the program with five other you must put your life on hold 1995, as opposed to the two full students whose ages range for that year since the program years required for the under­from 22-35. Debra Pullen, who is so rigorous. There's no time graduate nursing program at graduated from Western for anything except school," Saint Mary's. Those with previ­Michigan, is another student said Fierens. ous degrees which do not have involved in the program. In the words of the famous a heavy concentration in sci­Though most of her pro­writer George .Allen, however, ence must fulfill certain science fessional experience lies in the leisure time is the five or six requirements before taking field of dance, she has decided hours when you sleep at night. 
--~----------­

------l 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre '· Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 287-4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259-8684. 
Resumes Lisa 273-6332 
Jean, Jean the Typing Machine ­fast and friendly! Call 18858 & leave msg. 
COME LISTEN TO july WE'RE NOT GRUNGE. ARE WE? WEDNESDAY NOV. 10TH DALLOWAYS SAINT MARY'S COFFEE HOUSE 
Hesburgh Public Policy Roundtable: No discussion on Thurs. Nov. 11. Details to follow. Questions? Mary Lisa 4-3541 . 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST Heart Locket at USC rally EXTREME Personal value X2485 
FOUND 2 SILVER MEDALS­1 miraculous 1 unknown X341 0 ask for Matt 
LOST Thurs. 11/4 1 small black pocket knife somewhere between Cav., Wash Hall, Ad bldg, and FLRC. PLEASE CALL JIM x1507 
WANTED 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas. Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
• 

TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK '94! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go FREEl Best trips & prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! Great Resume expe rience! 1-800-678-6386! 
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hir­ing campus reps. Call @800-648­4849. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE. HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 EXT31 
EARN $2500 FREE TRIPS! Student Holidays, the nation's leader in Spring Break vacations. seeking enthusiastic, highly moti­vated students and fraternities to be the Notre Dame reps. EARN HIGH­EST COMMISSIONS AND TRAV­EL FREE! Cancun! Daytona Beach! CALL NOW 1-800-360-TRIP! 
Green Street Station is now hiring part-time retail clerks for Christmas. All hours available starting pay $5.00. Positions available at UP Mall and Scottsdale Mall. Apply in person at UP Mall. Store located outside of Casual Corners. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Full-Time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information callt­206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
Needed: Two BC GA's 
Please contact Jon McGhee @ 
x3578 if you have any information 
regarding tickets. 
BEACH or SKI Group Promoter. 
Small or larger groups. Your's 
FREE, discounted or CASH. Call 
CMI1-800-423-5264 
PAPA JOHN'S is still hiring 
drivers and inside personnel 
Flexible hours and 50% oft 
PAPA JOHN'S Pizza! 
Call271-1177 or stop by 
54533 Terrace Lane 
EOE 
HELP WANTED: Reliable people 
needed to work at off-campus 
banquet hall. 5-6 hrslwk, $6-7/hr 
call Rachel @ 4-4252 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Seeking rommate to share house. 
$250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
NEED LODGING -GAMES OR 
ANY ND OCCASION-CALL 291­
9011 
6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS 
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. 
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL 
NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 
Lodging -Rivertront -Private. 
257-9101. 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­able for parents on weekends. 219­291-2899. 
Lovely B&B 1.5 mi. off-campus. 
Rooms available 11-12/13; 
11-19/20. 219/287-1073 
ROOMMATE NEEDED 
Spr. Sem. 
Trtle Crk Twnhs 
271-1399 
Lodging -Rivertront -Private 
257-9101 
BED & BREAKFAST exclusively for ND/SMC parents. Two-night mini­mum. 10 minutes from campus, 272-5640. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11 /15! Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386 
2 round trip tickets chicago Ohare to Baltimore Nov. 25-Nov. 30 $100 each. call Mary @289-0837 
FOR SALE 86 CAMARO 
$1000/BEST OFFER 277-1004 
2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston 
12-14 $65ea. 508-771-6996 
1989 GEO Spectrum 5 speed, 2 
door hatch back. 42,000 miles, 
VERY dependable $3500 OBO 
273-0282 
Dependable 1986 Plymouth Duster Holly 271-8940 
Hewlett Packard clearance sale: HP 27S scientific calculator, with all documentation. Program formulas and love life. HP DeskJet printer (for IBM). Print in the privacy of your own room. Call Rolando at 631-4541. 
2 FSU TIXS FOR SALE CALL 
MARINA X4420 

TICKETS 
Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at 273-1757 
FSU Stud. TckL Best Offer Newman 4-0505 

NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­6183. 
We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO) 457-0486. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 
92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. 800-222-5546 ext 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1-800-7 49-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets 

NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND 
$$$1!11 CALL TOM 254-9013 
$$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA 
STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$ 
For Sale: GA's for all games. 277­1659. 
I NEED FLA STATE GA'S!!! 
CALL ** 232-5030 ** 

NEED 2 FL.ST. STUD TIX, MIKE 
AT 271-8641 

Notre Dame-FSU tickets wanted! 
Please call (407)438-3697 
NEED 1 OR2 
BOSTON COLLEGE TIX 
CALL 634-2856 
Need BC Tickets! 
x2846 

Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. 
GA's. Call Dan X1694 
FOR SALE 
2FSU GA'S 

CALL 634-3554 AND LEAVE MESSAGE... 
NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651 
I NEED FSU Studs 
Kevin x0542 

FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL DOUG AT 234-6306. 
NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 
(MARK) 
2 FSU ST TIX 4 SALE 

X2343 LEAVE BEST OFFER 
Need 4 Stu. Tix. for BC Call 
Colleen x42785 

I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 
FOR SALE: 
Two Florida State GA's 

Will call back best five offers. 
Call Brian at 273-4865. 

(Call before Wednesday Nov. 8) 
SELL 2 FSU GAs South Corner 
Serious$$$ only 277-5912 
For Sale: 2 FSU stud. tix. Make 
best offer. Jim x4310 

WILL PAY $175 A TICKET FOR 
FLORIDA STATE GA'S 233-9025 
2 Hot Babes selling 2 FRONT ROW FSU Student tixs! I D's optional ­let's negotiate! 634-9437 
TOP$$$$ for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's Call Pat @ 273-5094 I really, really need 2 B.C. tickets! Call Amy @ 4-4954 
2 FSU STUD. TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL #1560 
FOR SALE 2 FLORIDA ST. GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 11/10. (401) 847-2173 
For sale: FSU -BC stu tix. Best offer. Call Tara 284-5197. 
NEED FSU TIX STU OR GA Call Collect (914)294-6546 · Ask For Dennis 
For Sale: 2 FSU Stud Tix Call x2312 
For Sale: 1 FSU Stud Tic Call x2312 
Need tickets-Notre Dame vs. FSU game. Call Jim (904)788-5060 ASAP. 
FOR SALE: 3 FSU GA's best offer by 11/1 0 Call Tracey 273-3930 
For Sale: 2 FSU GA's. Best Offer--Call Soon!! Nick 4-1376 

I need GA tickets to BC. Rick 273­5347 
2 N.D.-FSU 1993 National Championship Student Tickets Make Offer @ 232-8363 
Happy Nov. 13! I have 2 FSU stu tix 4 u. Call & leave offer. x4420. 

1 FSU G.A. HIGHEST BIDDER-NEXT 4 DAYS 314/962-4876 
FOR SALE: 5 FSU stu. tix. Call Dare! or Tanya at 291-3818. 
Poor grad stdnt needs reasonable FS stnt or GA Paul273-1364 
HAVE 1 FSU GA WANT IT? CALL MATTY x1865 
Tix.4 Sale FSU GAs&BCstud. #1850. 
For sale: 1 FSU stud. call Mike @x2022. 

Tickets for sale: 2 FSU GA's togeth­er. Call Dan or John, ext. 114289. BEST OFFER! 
2 Florida State G.A's together Call 4-3192 Best offer by Nov. 10 

SALE 2 BC GA'S $125each x3666 
For Sale:4 FSU GAs call634-1833 
THE ULTIMATE PACKAGEII 
2 Stu Tix (I. D. extra $) 
FSU &/or BC 
273-6288 (B.O.) 

2 FSU stud. tix 4 sale. Best offer x 2147. 
I DESPERATELY NEED BC STUD. TIX. CALL JEN @ X 1308 
NEEDED: One BC Stud or GA for a groovy cousin!! 4-1339. 
2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. MARTY x1521. 
1, 2, or 3 FLORIDA STATE STU­DENT TICKETS FOR SALE Call 634-2856 
Stud. Ticket, 35 yd In, 29 rw, 634­1663, Best Offer 
1 FSU & 1 BC STUD 4 SALE!! SUSAN @ X1285 
Going on Vacation, need to sell Florida State student ticket. Best offer Jenn x4831 
3 FSU Student Tix BO before 11 /9 Call x1504 
4sale FSU Tix x4405 
1-BR RESIDENCE INN S.BEND FOR 11/12 & 11/13 PREPAID!! CALL W/ BEST OFFER (618)2774481 DAYS (618)6327571 NTS. 
SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS, CALL 289-3865, LEAVE OFFER. 
2 FSU stud. tix FOR SALE best offer call Juliet @ x4899 
Senior Section Student FSU TICK! Will trade w/ $ for a GOOD GA Call Chuck soon at x1717 
For sale: 2 FSU sr stu tix Buy one or both B/0 284-5250 or 284-5258 
2 FSU Stud senior 4 sale call 284-5204 
For sale FSU stud tix. Best offer Kellie 284-4346 
For Sale FSU stud tix Michelle 284-5086 
WANTED: 2 ND/FSU tickets will pay top$ call Mike leave message 24 hrs, (800)421-8845 ext 729 
2 FSU GA tickets for sale. Call x2187 ask for Tom. 
2 STU TIX 4 SALE. BEST OFFER BY 11/10. (219)634-4982 OR 2563. 
2 Fla St tickets tor sale 683-7275 
NEED 1 FSU stud will pay big $$ Call George @ x1972 
Need 2 std tix FSU 409-762-6645 call collect 
NEED TICKETS FLORIDA ST. GA'S CALL JOHN X1227 
1 45 yard line FSU GA for sale. Call George 634-1748 
1FSU student ticket for sale. Call Kristin with your best offer at 634­2989. 
I NEED BC GA'SI X4355 
1 FSU STU. TICKET FOR SALE BEST OFFER. CALL MARY BETH @ X3474 AND LEAVE MESSAGE 
1 [one) florida st senior student free or best offer jeff 273 -6445 
2 tsu stu 4-sale b/o by 11/11 x1841 
FSU STUD BEST OFFER X2975 
For Sale: Female student FSU tick­et with matching ID. Best offer. Call 4-1464 between 7 and 8. 
2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BO BY NOV. 10 END ZONE, ROW 20. 219-659-3910 
FOR SALE: 2 FLA. ST. GA'S 35 YARD LINE Best offer: Call703­759-3349 
For sale: FSU stud tix. ID no problem Jay x2567 
1 FSU GA Call Greg (703)979-2014 
FSU stud for sale B.O. by 11/10 
273-4178 
4 Fla. St. Stu. Tix (Sec 32) For Sale. Best Offer. x4436 
2 MARRIED STU TIC BOOKLETS FOR SALE FSU & BC CALL 273­5124 AFTER 5 
HELP!! NEED 2 FSU AND 4 BC GAS CALL PAT X1689 
FOR SALE. ONE FSU GA. NO BIDDING INVOLVED! $600 TO FIRST CALLER!. (219) 273-6408 
I've got your FSU stud. ticket-call X1223 **REASONABLE.. 

FORSALEIII 2 FSUIND GA'S 2 FSUIND STU 2 BC/NDSTU CALL 273-5942 WITH BEST OFFER 
FORSALEI!! 2 FSU STUD TICKETS AND 2 BC STUD TICKETS CALL X2855 WITH BEST OFFER THROUGH 11/11 
FSU STUD FOR SALE PAT X4774 
2 FSU Tix For Sale -BEST OFFERII Call 273-6481 
For Sale: 1 FSU stud. tick. best offer call Derek at x4074 
FSU Student Ticket For Sale B/0 call 4-4435 
FSU TIX FOR SALE call X1665 
11/8/93 1 FSU GA FOR SALE­X1367 
Two FSU stud. tix for sale1. B.O. Call 273-4168 
IrS THE SECOND COMING OF CHRISTl Saturday November 20, 1993. Notre Dame Indiana. There is just one problem, Jesus doesn't have aG.A. ticket to the B.C. game. Oh, and Peter wants to come too. So if you want to get you and your mother a one way ticket to heaven, and some speanding money too, CALL: Jesus' agent-284-4451 
12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME 
-Bryan x1190 

FSU stud. tix for sale. Call Keith at 273-3920. 
1 FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE Call Brian at 234-4276 
Need std tix-Big $$$$$$$ $$ $$ call Dan 273-0986 
*****FLORIDA STATE***** stud. & GA's for sale BO x2851 
For Sale 2 FSU stud tix. BO call x3299 
I need 2 GAs tor FSU. Call Cori at X4570 as soon as possible. 
1 FSU STUD tix for sale. Leave name, #, and offer. 634-3811 
I FSU STUD ticket for sale. Call T at X1480 and make an offer ASAP 
FOR SALE 1 FSU &BC stud. tx.both $250 call Chichi 4-3503 
FOR SALE 1 FSU & 1 BC stud. tix. Call 273-2926 
FSU and BC Stud. tix. Must sell together. Call 232-2843 
For Sale: FSU G.A.'s and STUD. Dennis@ 634-1817 
Need 1-4 BC GA's and 1 Stu Call Brian x3467 or x0577 
1 FSU stud. tick. for sale 273-4007 
Two 50 yd. line GA's and one 40 yd. line GA to FSU for sale Best offer $$$ call Brad-(219)273-5970 
FSU stu tix 4 sale call x2461. Best offer by 11/11. 
FSU stud tix. $75 or best offer. call Teak x4018 
see CLASSIFIEDS I page 6 
r----------~---------------------~-------------~------~-------------------. 
pagel2 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
Keenan's comeback attempt falls short against Stanford 
By G.R. NELSON Sports Writer 
After recovering a fumble deep in Stanford territory, Keenan was on the verge of 
Full women's interha/1 coverage will appear in tomorrow's Observer. 
stealing another game from through the Stanford secondary Stanford. With his team trail­until he collided with Mike ing 10-7, Keenan's Matt Miller. Makowski was streaking Miller delivered a ferocious 
Morrissey stomps Dillon; Zahm defeats Cavanaugh 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
Despite the freezing cold weather last Sunday, Morrissey was able to mix up the run and the pass, and pull away from Dillon in a 24-7 victory. 
However, the score does not really reflect the game played Sunday. The Dillon defense came out fired up and made a defensive stand to start the game. After the Dillon punt was blocked, Morrissey found themselves just 20 yards out. But the Big Red defense kept the high-powered Morrissey of­fense to a field goal by Scott Palumbo. 
Feeding off the defensive en­ergy, the offense came out de­termined to run the ball. Fol­lowing a 20-yard gain by fresh­man Pete Meyers and a 15-yard scamper by junior Mike Schreck, Meyers went to work again. Taking the sweep and cutting back right, the fresh­man spun off a tackler for the score and the first TD against the Morrissey defense all year. 
For the first time all year, Morrissey found themselves trailing, but they knew what they had to do. After quarter­back Scott Taylor hit junior Tom Fitzpatrick, he found senior Justin Kruer down the sidelines for a 40-yard pass to the Dillon 9-yard line. From there, Kruer took it in for the score giving Morrissey a lead they would never relinquish. 
"Everybody was kind of down after the TD. I was real im­pressed with the way we bounced back," said Taylor. 
After recovering a fumble on the Dillon 14-yard line it was time for Taylor to take it in himself. Calling his own num­ber, the senior captain took it in for a 17-6 lead on the naked bootleg. Following a big gain by Avelino Verceles, senior Paul Lopach then capped off the offensive barrage with a 7­yard touchdown jaunt. 
"We feel we have the best of­
fensive line in interhall," added Kruer. Zahm 12, Cavanaugh 6 
In a game riddled by turnovers and penalties, Zahm earned the right to play Morris­sey next week with a 12-6 win over a fiesty Cavanaugh squad. 
Cavanaugh's three fumbles did not lead to any scores, but kept the offense out of synch all day. Both teams also had diffi­culty punting the ball as a Zahm punt was blocked and a bad snap by Naugh led to the Rabid Bats's winning score. 
Freshman Matt Bundick pre­ceded to capitalize on the Naugh error as he ran it straight up the middle in the third quarter for what proved to be the decisive margin of vic­tory. 
"We were keying on the out­side protecting against the op­tion," said Cavanaugh ·sopho­more rusher and safety, Mike Norbut, who provided some rushing fireworks of his own. 
Positioning themselves at the 50-yard line, Norbut took it through a wide hole on the line for a quick dash that tied things at six apiece. 
"In the first half we were not focused, but at halftime we talked about what this game meant and turned things around," said Zahm coach Fitz­patrick. 
On Zahm's first offensive se­ries quarterback Randy Swat­land hit junior Peter Couri for a 40-yard gain to set up the first score. Two plays later, Swat­land hooked up with sopho­more Mike Wigton in the cor­ner of the end zone for the TD, but the point after was blocked by sophomore Paul Townley keeping the defecit at six. 
Cavanaugh did have their chances in the first half as they came out in the no-huddle of­fense directed by sophomore Charlie Algier. He threw to Kevin Jackson and Greg Bieg for key first downs, but it all fell apart as Naugh fumbled on Zahm's 4-yard line. 


game-saving blow which jarred Bob Baxter and the other to the ball loose. Stanford recov­Matt Coles. ered and had escaped. "This With the game seemingly game was sweet redemption for over, Keenan launched a terrif­us," said Stanford hero Mike ic comeback. Keenan drove 67 Miller. yards, culminating with a Matt 
This game should never have Makowski 11 yard touch down come down to the final mo­run. Then Keenan forced a ments. Stanford controlled the fumble, giving themselves a first 3 1/2 quarters of action in chance to win, an opportunity taking a 10-0 lead. Stanford they failed to convert on. amassed, 241 yards of total of­"We came out a little flat," fense and had limited Keenan said Keenan captain Matt to just two first downs. Makowski, "but we came back 
Stanford scored on its first of­strong and have nothing to fensive play, a 75 yard run off a hang our heads about." trap play by freshman fullback Stanford players were Chris Pollina. "The offensive pleased, but not satisfied. "We line created a huge hole," said played well," said Pollina, "But Pollina, "And all I had to do there's more to accomplish." was run." And run he did. Pollina rushed for 105 yards on Fisher 22 Alumni 0 only five carries and also Fisher played a near flawless caught two passes for 66 yards. football game in trouncing 
Before the end of the half, Alumni 22-0 Sunday at Stepan Stanford drove 55 yards to set Field. up a 24 yard Chad Smock field "We ran and threw the ball goal. On that drive, quarter­well," said Fisher captain Jeff back Mike Brown completed Biever, "And our defense was two fourth down passes, one to great." 
Fisher took advantage of sev­eral costly Alumni mistakes in taking a 16-0 lead. A botched Alumni punt snap set up Fish­er's first score, a quarterback sneak by Biever. 
On its next possession, Alumni botched another punt snap. This time, Fisher scored through the air. Biever com­pleted a 30-yard touch down pass to Dan McGinty, and the route was on. 
Fisher added another score in the third quarter on a 25-yard pass from Biever to Mark Troske. 
Alumni was forced to play catch-up early, and this made it very easy for the Fisher defense. Fisher generated a strong pass rush and forced an interception. 
"We were in too big a hole," said Alumni captain Paul Zach­lin, "Against a very good team." 
"We came ready to play," said Fisher captain Biever, "And took our first step." 

The: Controversy C~ontinueso~~ 
TONIGHT 

Ph llis 
S~JiA~fly 

7:30pm Stepan $3 
Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info Desk 

STUDENT UNION BOARD special guest Sun 60 Crazy Stuff and More!!! 
tickets available at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
Soccer 
continued from pagel6 
This will mark the first year since 1988 that Notre Dame will compete in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The last time an Irish men's soccer team com­peted in the NCAA tournament was in 1988. The squad posted a 17-4-2 record, with a victory in the MCC championships. They fell in the first round, however, to Southern Methodist by the score of 2-0. 
The Irish received their tournament bid after capturing the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Title last weekend, defeating Detroit Mercy in the final game 2-0. Sophomore Bill Lanza and Chris Mathis both scored in the contest, while goalie Bert Bader recorded five saves for the shutout. 
Indiana received the No. 1 seed in the tourna­ment, and will host Memphis State in the first round. The winner of the game will face the vic­tor of the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game. The Irish faced the Hoosiers earlier this year during the regular season, falling 3-0. 
Anything can happen come tournament time, however. 
"It's a clean slate," said Bader, who was named the defensive MVP of last weekend's tournament. "Any team can win on any given day." 
Notre Dame, who has shut out eight of their last ten opponents, will concentrate on perfecting the basics this week in preparation for this weekend's contest. 
"It's nice because you have a little bit of time to prepare for this," continued Berticelli. "You want to make sure you're in tune with the things you do best." 
The Observer • SPORTS 
1st Round Completed by Nov. 14 2nd Round by Nov. 21 Memphis State (13-8-2) 
#1 Indiana (16-2-1) 
NOTRE DAME (15-5-0) 
U. of Wis.-Madison (13-3-4) James Madison (19-1-1) Loyola of Maryland (18-2-1) William & Mary (12-4-3) Virginia (17-3-0) Robert Morris ( 14-6-1) #4 Penn State (16-3-2) Columbia (9-5-1) Princeton (1 0-4-0) Rutgers (17-4-1) Hartwick (14-3-2) Boston University (13-6-1) St. John's (18-0-3) San Diego (13-6-0) #3 UCLA (18-2-0) Cal St.-Fullerton (12-4-3) Fresno State (12-4-3) San Francisco (11-3-4) Santa Clara (14-2-2) Saint Louis (16-4-0) Portland (9-3-5) Air Force (13-4-1) #2 Creighton (19-0-0) Duke (15-4-0) North Carolina (12-6-2) UNC-Greensboro (14-5-2} Clemson (17-4-1) 
Furman (12-5-1) South Carolina (12-3-4} 
page 13 


3rd Round by Nov. 28 The Observer/Chris Weirup 

The Richard D. Hammond 
~ar~~r rr~[rarn ill ~IT~~t MarK~till[ 
sponsored by: The Lake Group and The Marketing Club 
Room 122 Hayce§-If1Lealy 12~30 to s~oo WcecdL 9 Novo 109 1·993 
Company Representatives from: Leo Burnett-12:45 to 1:45 The Lake Group-1:45 to 2:45 Land's End International -3:00 to 4:00 FCB/Direct Marketing-4:00 to 5:00 
Pizza. Refreshments &Discussion-5:00 to 7:00 
"One ofAmerica's Leading Thinkers" 
Time & Newsweek Magazines 
THE NOTRE DAME LAW REVIEW IS PLEASED TO PRESENT: 
Dr. Russell Kirk 
"The Catholic Natural Law Tradition and the American Constitution" 
Date: Wednesday, November 10, 1993 Time: 2p.m. Place: Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND 
I'IIIS I'HI<:SENTATIO"i IS MAllE POSSSIBLE TIIIWll(;ll A (;I{ANT BY TilE INTEH< '01 .I ,Jo:(;I/\H: STIIDIES INSTITliTE 
Connolly 
continued from page 16 
most likely due to the fact that Florida State would be playing Notre Dame this weekend in perhaps the most important collegiate football game this decade. 
The NCAA was likely con­cerned with logistical problems such as parking, traffic, and ho­tel accommodations as well as the notion that it didn't want the tournament to play second fiddle to another sporting event. 
However, the University had already found rooms in Elkhart for opposing teams and Petru­celli said all other problems had been resolved. 
The notion that it would be detrimental to have the tour­
lflJJ~rKrEV 53~00T 
TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 


MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15 4-6 PM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16 4-6 PM CO-REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN & 2 MEN PER TEAM OPEN TO UNDERGRAD & GRADUATE STUDENTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS DEADLINE: THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
CONDUCTED BY NOTRE DAME NAVAL ROTC MEMBERS OF ROTC RIFLE SQUAD NOT ELIGIBLE 
INJ@ ~!Jll~IRJO~INI©~ 1Nl~©~~&!Rl'l1 
STADIUM GATE 14 
Sexuality, Drugs, Alcohol, SeK-Esteem 
Are you In control? 

• Hoste• the •1'••1•.9 oer•o•IH •t Ca...lediok P.rk 
for hi'• John P.al II 
• 1st Plaoe In the renowned San Franolno International Stan.lll' Co••df Co•l'etltlon 
•At~llrt. •• the Tenlsht Show, NBC Pnltet Ptaeeek. T~ Shltf,l••••mw Show, PBS Tlltellslfil! S~tiiah. Tad, ~~ lor Hire..... 
Wednesday, Nwemh•r 10 Carroll Auditorium/SMC 7:15 p.m. 
aptllltl4 ~ Saltl Marra ~· 
RttWetet HaD Amellfiot, W.D1111 i. Sfldetl AdWititt 
nament played in conjunction with the Florida State game is foolish. What better exposure could women's soccer officials hope for than a weekend at site which already has a contin­gency of nearly 300 media rep­resentatives? 
With about ten thousand stu­dents and well over fifty thou­sand alumni and other fans coming to campus for the foot­ball match-up, Saturday's 11 am game and both of Sunday's games would likely have witnessed unprecedented attendances. 
The decision to allow Wiscon­sin to host the tournament is rediculous because it not only • intensifies the problem of in­clement weather, but it also moves the games to facilities which are inferior to those of Notre Dame. 
"Our facilities are better than any of the other teams," said Petrucelli, "and our attendance is better than any of them too. 
He added, "It would have been an unbelievable weekend on our campus to have had both." 
Indeed, it would have. 
Don't drink and drive. 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
...

NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
1------F•L•O•R•I•D•A --~ 
DAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BE.ACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
I----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O ---1 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
1----N•E 
LAS VEGAS 

S•O•U•T•H C•A•R•O•L•I•N•A 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1•BOD •SUNCHASE 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS

Irish sweep at first fall fencing festival 
Irish Ice Club Hockey will 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Men's fenc­ing team swept to a 5-0 finish last weekend in the first ever Fall Fencing festival held at Notre Dame. The Irish picked up the broom and defeated such top teams as Lawrence, Michigan State, Northwestern, Chicago, and Michigan. 
"This was the first meet we have held in the fall and I think it went very well," said head coach Mike DeCicco, now in his 33rd year at Notre Dame. "We were anxious to see how the fencers would do under fire, since we have been only prac­ticing for three weeks," added DeCicco. 
The men's foil squad led the way for Notre Dame in their 21­6 over Lawrence. Juniors Stan Brunner and Conor Power both won their two bouts for the foilists as they beat the Lawrence foil 8-1. 
Northwestern proved to be the toughest test of the day for the Irish as Notre Dame came back to edge the Wildcats 14­
13. Brunner, Power, and junior Jordan Maggio all had two wins for the foilists, while senior Greg Wozniak went 3-0 for the epee squad. 
The sabre team led the Irish in their 19-8 victory over Chicago and 20-7 win over Michigan. Graduate Bernard Baez, senior Chris Hajnik, and freshman Bill Lester each won two bouts against Chicago and freshman Jeff Wartgow joined Baez and Hajnik with two wins against the Wolverines. Coach DeCicco also got to give valu­able time to younger players in the foil match vs. Chicago where the Irish prevailed 5-4. 
Wozniak capped off the day by highlighting Notre Dame's 19-8 win over Michigan State as he won two bouts against the Spartans and went 12-0 overall in the festival. 
"The early season match did several things for us," said De­Cicco. "It gave us an idea of where we are compared to some of the top teams in the midwest we will see later in the year. It also showed us what we can work on to be prepared for the heart of our schedule in January in order to come out on top in the midwest," he com­mented. 
The women's fencing team missed the near sweep in the festival as the foil team finished 5-0 and the epee team, in their first year of competition, pre­vailed 2-1. 
In their first ever bout, the epee team defeated Michigan 6­3 with seniors Marit Fischer and Maura Gallagher and sophomore Amy Smorek earn­ing wins. The epee team crushed Lawrence 9-0 to win the meet, but fell short against Northwestern in a close 5-4 loss. The women's foil squad followed the men by going 5-0, defeatjng Lawrence 15-1, Mchigan State 14-2, Northwestern 10-6, Chicago 16­0, and Michigan 15-1. Seniors Corinne Dougherty and Kim Arndt and sophomores Claudette De Bruin and Mindi Kalogera helped to preserve the sweep against stiff competition. 

Women drown Bowling Green, 143-100 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
Sports Writer 
The men's and women's swimming teams traveled to Bowling Green State University in Ohio on Friday to challenge the Falcon swimmers and divers. The women drowned their opponents, 143-100, but the men fell short in a close meet, 127-105. 
Sophomore sensation Jesslyn Peterson, and newcomer Erin Brooks led the way for the Irish women. Peterson and Brooks collaborated with freshman teammates Karen Foley and Karen Daylor to win the 400 Medley in 4:01.38. Peterson also won the 200 Individual Medley and the 200 Breastroke. Freshman Brooks contributed to the Irish victory by placing first in the 200 backstroke as well. 
In the 200 Freestyle, junior Jennifer Dahl came from be­hind to win the event in a fast unshaved time of 1:56.1. She caught her opponent in the sec­ond 100 yards in an exciting race. 
The Irish divers dominated the three-meter event, with 
sophomore Liane Gallagher and senior Angela Gugle placing lirst and second respectively. 
After the first segment of events, the women held only a three-point lead, but after the break, they really came out strong. "The meet was put to­gether really well," said senior captain Kristin Heath. The vic­tory showed the depth of this team, as they conquered the individual events, as well as winning both the medley and free relays. 
The Irish men suffered a de­feat at the hands of the Falcons, but swam competitive­ly overall. 
Bowling Green demonstrated their strength in the backstroke and breastroke events, as well as winning the 400 Medley Re­lay, which hurt the Irish chances. The absence of suc­cessful diver Sean Hyer also contributed to the deficit in the team's point total. 
Sophomore Ry Beville was a double winner, earning first place finishes In the 200 free and the 200 fly. His butterfly race gave the Irish a boost in the second half of the meet, but they could not recover enough team points. 
Senior captain Dave Nathe won the 100 free, and sopho­mores Dave Doherty and Rob Flynn placed second and third in the 200 Individual Medley. Mike Keeley put forth a great racing effort in the 500 free, coming from behind to finish second. 

Tennis 
continued from page 16 
Midwest region and No. 38 in the nation. 
"It is great to see this type of person win," commented Bayliss, "The courage he has shown these past months have been an inspiration to his teammates." 
be held on Thursday Nov. 11 at 10:45-11:45 p.m.. and Sun­day Nov. 14 at 9-10:00 p.m. Please bring $5 to first scrim­mage. New members welcome. 
A Turkey Shoot will be held on Monday, November 15 and Tuesday, November 16 from 4pm to 6pm. Co-Ree teams of two men and two women. Sign up in advance at RecSports by November, November 11. No experience necessary. Call 631-6100 for more info. 
The RecSports Office is offering interhall .and grad ice hockey and interhall, grad and club basketball with the dead­line being November 11 at the time of the captains meetings. Hockey meeting is at 5 p.m., the interhall basketball meet­ing is at 5:30 p.m. for both men and women, and grad and club basketball meeting is set for 6 
p.m. Those interested in offici­ating the above have a manda­tory meeting at 6:30 p.m. All meetings are in the JACC Auditorium on November 11. 
Women's Lacrosse manda­tory practice Tuesday November 9 at 9:30-11 p.m. at Loftus. Call Emily at 4-2856 or Michele at 4-2894. 
SportsTalk will air a pre­view of the upcoming FSU game followed by a men's bas­ketball preview with assistant coach and starter Jimmy Black. Call in with your ques­tions and comments at 631­6400 tonight on WVFI 640 AM at 8p.m. 



Tuesday, November 9, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
I'M So SIGI<oFTl-iiSI NICE 
GIJ'IS FINISH L-AST' WOMEN 
W!Wf IN;x;NSinV£ kJI~DMt:N. 

~--) 
CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
D\D YOJ C~t.o:. n\E 
Pocx.ns ex 
lilY I'~~TS 
BtFOR£ iCJJ 
Wr>-$1\t.D n\9-\? 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 


53 "-first you don't succeed " 57 In a dubious way 60 Poet Sexton 61 Richard of "Yanks" 62Lend­(listen) 63 Free from admixture 64 Turned right 65 Eighteenth Hebrew letter 
DOWN 
1 Kind of apple 2Trademark 3 River of Spain 4 Flighty person 5Gumshoe 6 Log-rolling 
contest 7 Double quartet 
WOMG.r-1 ~1'/ AC.£ SE£ 'TWO 
1'/P£':'> OF ME.N: 80'/­
Fil.1£NDS AND HliSBANDS. 
ONCE THE'/ MI\1\.IRE. f\ ll 
ntEY BECOME: MORE 
ATTRACT£ D TV :5Tf\BLE, ftt)SBAND T'/ P(;S l-1 KE. 
'iouRSE Lf 
l£1S JUS\ 9.'< W£ KE£0 SOME BIG GlDJ£.5 (.,~\) />. 
HtA'-J'I '5\IC(JAST. 

LooK -Osvrov-st'1 lHE. 
'SAo pgopE-s~o~-s KI"EW 


IN THERE ... 'S.o \F' li\EI.,.R.E NoT /N T~ll-E, 
l:)o,...',. TAl'£ rKEIR.
;· 
f\E"\ 0 t> 1k l011Z.N to 
35 Bay State cape 38 Network of 
nerves 39 Copter's kin 44 Track shape 
BILL WAITERSON 
IX) '{CJJ \'1\g.~ '{OIJ DONT K~oW ~\-lt.R'i:. TI-\\S 
1\-\ING Is:;:/ 
DAVE KELLEIT 
~~ LeAvE~ 
Two ~OfES'io~ 
-
• 

---------·-----~---------~--­
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 9, 1993 
Women's soccer earns bittersweet berth 
.-· 
• 
... 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
After four years of continuous improvement under the tutelage of head coach Chris Petrucelli, the Notre Dame women's soccer team earned its first ever NCAA tournament bid yesterday. 
The third-ranked Irish were given the top seed in the Central Region sectional and will face off Saturday afternoon against George Mason at Wisconsin­Madison's Dan McClinton Memorial Track. 
"We're really excited about having the chance to play in the NCAAs," Petrucelli said. "Earning a tournament berth was a preseason goal and now we are ready to set more goals." 
The Irish won an unprecedented 19 games this season while losing only twice. The losses came at the hands of No. 1 North Carolina and second-ranked Stanford. 
George Mason is currently 16-2-1 and ranked 1Oth in the nation. It will be the first ever match-up between the teams. 
The winner of the contest will face off 

Photo courtesy of Sports Information Petrucelli and the No.3 Irish were given top seed in the Central Region sectional. 

on Sunday against the winner of Friday's Wisconsin-Madison/William & Mary game. 
The Badgers, owners of a 15-3 record, are ranked eighth in the nation and third in the Central Region. The Irish knocked off Wisconsin 3-1 at Madison in September. 
Notre Dame dominated William & Mary later that month in a 1-0 victory. The Tribe is now 12-4-1, sixth in the nation, and second in the region. 
After posting a dismal 1-5-1 record against ranked opponents last year, the Irish proved they were deserving of national recognition this season by going 5-2 against Top 20 teams. 
"We remained focused all season," Petrucelli said, "and if we can continue to do so in the tournament it could be exciting." 
The Irish were disappointed after yes­terday morning's announcement of the seedings when they discovered that they were not awarded the right to host the Central Region Sectional. The squad is unbeaten in its last 38 games versus Central Region opponents and has defeated the number two and three teams in the region earlier this season. 
Notre Dame was also the only top seed not granted the home field advantage. 
''I'm extremely disappointed," said Petrucelli. "We were shown a lack of respect." 
Petrucelli said that the main reasons why the NCAA stripped Notre Dame of the right to host the first two rounds of the tournament are the conflicts caused by Saturday's scheduled football game with Florida State at Notre Dame Stadium. 
He believed that the NCAA was con­cerned with logistical problems such as parking, traffic and hotel accomoda-­tions. However, the University had already successfully resolved these problems. 
"Our University and our administra­tion put together a package that was impossible to pass up," said Petrucelli. ''I'm extremely disappointed that we're not hosting. I don't think the committee researched it enough." 
"I think we would have liked to have had it here," said Irish tri-captain Andi Kurek, "but it really doesn't matter. We're in, and that's the important thing." 
Reglonals November 13-14 *North Carolina ( 19-0-0) Southern Methodist (13-6-1) Florida International (13-2-2) Duke (12-6-2) Connecticut (16-5-1) Dartmouth (12-2-1) Providence (10-8-2) *Massachusetts (15-2-3) NOTRE DAME (19-2-0) George Mason (16-2-1) *Wisc.-Madison (15-3-0) William & Mary (12-4-1) Santa Clara (15-4-0) Portland (15-3-1) California (10-3-4) *Stanford (16-2-1) 
*Designates Host Institution 
Semifinals On campus of a participating institution November 19 
Finals On campus of a participating institution 
National November 21 
Champion 

Semifinals On campus of a participating institution November 19 
jMMij 
¥CCT
IIIII 
The ObseiVer/Chris We1rup 

Irish robbed of home field 
H 
ow would 
you reward 
a team that qualified for its firs NCAA tournamen by achieving an astonishing 19-2 record and a third­place nationa ranking? 
How would yo


reward a tea.,..,__As_s_isr_an_r_S_po_r_rs_E_di_ro_r___J 
which defeat.ed five of the seven Top 20 teams it faced while losing only to the top two teams in the nation? 
How would you reward a team which has defeated its top two regional rivals and is undefeated in its last 38 matches against its regional opponents? 
Well, if you're the NCAA committee in charge assigning home sites for the 1993 national women's soccer tournament, you would do so by unfairly stripping that team of its well deserved right to host its regional games. 
Even though the Notre Dame women's soccer team managed to accomplish all of the above feats this season, it was told yesterday that it will have to travel to the home field of the Wisconsin-Madison Badgers. a team which the Irish handily defeated in September, for the first two rounds the NCAA tournament this week­end. 
An extremely disappointed Chris Petrucelli, head coach of the women's squad, explained that the decision was 
see CONNOLLY I page 13 

No. 19 Zurcher captures two titles Irish compete in second 

By PHIL LANGER Sports Writer 
This weekend, Andy Zurcher, No. 19 in the nation, capped off a terrific showing by the Notre Dame men's tennis team at the Rolex, by captur­ing both the Midwest singles and doubles crowns. 
The top 96 players in the Midwest region were present at the Eck Pavallion to witness Zurcher seemingly complete his hard fought comeback from last year's wrist surgery by beating top Michigan player Dan Brackus 6-1, 3-6, 6-4. 
"It is a terrific achievement for him," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss,"He's the embodiment of everything Notre Dame stands for. " 
It has been a long, painful road for Zurcher to regain his former status as a threat in collegiate tennis. After undergoing surge·ry, Zurcher cross­trained to stay in shape, but it wasn't until September that he was able to play a full set of singles. Last night, however, Zurcher proved to himself and to the Midwest region that his adverse road of rehabilitation is seemingly over by beating Dan Brackus, the No.1 player in the 
see TENNIS/ page 14 
• 
lnterhall football Keenan, Morrissey, Zahm and Fisher advance in Interhall playoffs. 
see page 12 

NCAA tournament ever 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
The drought has finally ended. 
Yesterday, the Notre Dame men's soccer team found out that they would be only the sec­ond men's soccer team in Irish history to compete in the NCAA tournament, which starts this weekend. 


Notre Dame will open the tournament at the University of Wisconsin"-Madison. The Badgers, a team the Irish have not yet faced, fought off several tough Big Ten foes and finished the season with a 13-3-4 record. The game is scheduled to begin at 2:30 pm Sunday

....t. 1••··~
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 
afternoon. 

No. 19 Andy Zurcher captured the midwest singles 
''I'm really pleased," said 

and doubles crowns this weekend. 
,J:&) 
t'i: ,,'.A... 
~
.. 

Swimming Coach Tim Welsh and the Irish split at Bowling Green this weekend. 
see page 14 Irish head coach Mike Berti­celli, who will be making his first NCM tournament appear­ance since 1989, his last year with Old Dominion. "I was hoping we'd get to play some­one we haven't seen." 
The Badgers have been ranked in and out of the top ten all season, and currently hold the No. 13 spot in the ISAA poll. Notre Dame is ranked 22nd in the same poll. 
The fact that the Irish have to travel four hours away to play against a higher ranked team does not seem to bother Berti­celli. 
"I'd prefer to be the underdog in a game like this," continued the coach. "The players have more motivation." 
see SOCCER/ page I 3 
Fencing Junior Grzegorz Wozniak and the Irish swept at their first home fall fenc­ing festival. 
see page 14 

.. 





