-----,-~---------------­

DesRosiers speaks on Congressman calls for action 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH
Vietnam of present 
News Editor 
By TRACY CRINION thing they can get to bring in 
As the nation's leading
News Writer extra income. The sanitation 
Catholic university, it is Notre
system is so poor that washing 
Dame's obligation to stand-up
Although Vietnam standards is done in troughs in the 
against the continuous violence
of living are below American streets. A visit to Vietnam's 
and discrimination in Northern
standards, it is a country of main audio-video production 
Ireland, according to Rep. Bill
beauty and generosity, accord­company shocked the King (R-N.Y.)
ing to Sr. Elaine Des Rosiers, American media experts­
"As the leading Catholic
Director of Educational Media, progress in media there means 
University in the world, as a
in her lecture on the present that one "View-Master" child's 
university committed to inter­
state of Vietnam. picture viewer will be available 
national peace studies, and as
Des Rosiers showed slides per class. 
the university most identified
and video footage to augment Although the nation may be a 
with the Irish tradition, Notre
her presentation sponsored by poor one, their hearts are gen­
Dame is uniquely suited to be­
Educational Media. She toured erous according to Des Rosiers. 
ing the venue for Irish peace
Vietnam with People to People "Everywhere we went, we were 
negotiations," said King yes­
International, a group founded given gifts of flowers, food, and 
terday to a group gathered in
by former U.S. President entertainment. Hospitality is 
the Law School Courtroom. 
Eisenhower to foster interna­essential to the Vietnamese," 
Although the British gov­
tional relations. This particu­she said. 
ernment has essentially run
lar tour was given exclusively Communism is extremely op­
Northern Ireland as a police
to media experts, mostly from pressive on the education pro­
state since the 19 20s, according 
the United States. cess. The best high school in 
to King, American Catholics in
"When you think of Vietnam, the nation boasts a library as 
general have been silent re­
what do you think of? War." big as Des Rosiers's office in 
garding the voting, housing and 
Des Rosiers showed graphic DeBartolo-"And I'm almost 
legal discrimination facing Irish 
slides from the Vietnam War sure I have more books in my 
Catholics in the region. 
over thirty years ago, and then office than they had in their li­
Notre Dame has done nothing
contrasted them to the peace­brary." 
to break this silence, he said. 
time Vietnam of today. Des Every text used in the class­
The University's Board of
Rosiers' media footage por­room is regulated by the 
Trustees recently chose to re­
trayed happy people, bearing Communist government. Des 
verse its policy of banning in­
no animosity toward American Rosiers's group wanted to see 
vestment in South Africa that
tourists. the Vietnam University, but 
contributed to the discrimina­
However, while Vietnam to­was never allowed to do so. 
tion of blacks in the country.
day is peaceful, its economic "Somehow I felt that they 
There has been no mention,
state is in dire straits. Des didn't want us to-it was kind 
though, of similar discrimina­
Rosiers described Hanoi as of a bad omen, that things were 
tion taking place in Northern
"being in a time warp that took even worse than what we were 
Ireland, according to King.
you back to 1954," the date of seeing," said DesRosiers. 
"Because it is Catholics who
Communist takeover in Hanoi. Saigon, or Ho Chi Minh 
are being persecuted in
Transportation is mainly by bi­City, as it is known today, is 
Ireland, powerful Catholic insti­
cycle or moped-automobiles both cleaner and more modern 
tutions such as Notre Dame 
are fantasy to most Vietnam than Hanoi. "More like a time 
have a special moral obligation
natives. warp to 1975," the date of the 
to be involved," said King. "I
"Everywhere I see the results reunification of North and 
can't imagine a predominantly
of economic sanctions," said South Vietnam. American sol­gion. campus to speak about their
black college turning its back
Des Rosiers. "It's as if Vietnam diers did a considerable Notre Dame is in a unique po­positions, he said. 
on South Mrica." 
is being crushed to death by amount of building during the sition, explained King. As a The Congressman proposed
An outspoken and often con­
two arms-one of economic war, and the architecture re­well-known, well-respected that the University ask Gerry
troversial speaker, King chal­
sanctions and the other of com­flects it. However, no Catholic institution, the Adams, president of the Sinn
lenged Notre Dame students
munism. Vietnam needs to American or French products University the kind of power. to Fein, the political arm of the
and administrators to visibly
expand and grow." do something even as great as
reject the "systematic govern­
Today's Vietnamese sell any-inviting warring factions to the 
see VIETNAM/ page 4 ment exploitation" in the re-see IRELAND I page 4 
Campus Life Council postpones voting on a parietals extension 
By EMILY HAGE on week days. think, should be able to interact "This is meant to begin the who suggested that students 
Assistant News Editor Wellmann also suggested a for one hour longer for study discussion," said Wellmann. might not have indicated their 
trial period directly before fi­purposes." She added that it would take support on a posted survey be­
After discussing a student nals in December for all three Study place during midterms time to change "something this cause of teasing. 
government proposal for ex­proposals, but added that a and finals is especially hard to big and fundamental to Notre Kirk also questioned the sur­
tended pareitals, the Campus compromise was not out of the fmd, she added. Dame." vey, saying that he had never 
Life Council decided to post­question. Many council members sup­The response of Patty O'Hara, seen such strong student sup­
pone voting until after a second Enhancing the academic en­ported extended hours in study vice-president of Student port of extended parietals as 
survey is conducted. vironment of Notre Dame was areas other than dorm rooms. Affairs, is important to stu­that found by the survey. 
Extending parietals for study suggested as a reason to pro­DeBartolo was among the sug­dents, as well, she added. Wellmann responded that 
and social interaction was sup­vide additional study space. gested areas to be made avail­"We're not trying to chip hall presidents were encour­
ported by Nikki Wellmann, "Professors don't take into able to students for study. away at parietals," said aged to do "all they could" and 
Student Body vice-president, account what happens in the Safety was a concern in re­Wellmann. that, "pressed for time" the 
who presented the results of a dorms when we give assign­sp9nse to this suggestion. "We feel that it is a large stu­Student Body group in charge 
recent student survey in her ments," said council member Wellmann said studying in dent concern that we would of the survey had tried to con­
proposal, "How the Students Professor Linda Austern. "We one's dorm is safer than study­hope that Professor O'Hara duct it "efficiently." 
Feel about Parietals" at the CLC want our students to do well. It ing somewhere else on campus would give a reply. We think She added that because of the 
meeting yesterday. looks good for all of us." or off-campus. that it would be very effective large percentage of students in 
"Students have voiced con­The need for extended study She added that extended for students to see a response favor of extending parietals, the 
cern about gender relations, space time was the primary hours in a class building would from O'Hara," said Wellmann. results are most likely indica­
lack of 24-hour space, and the reason given for extending be costly. Objections to the survey and tive of the opinion of the major­
extension of parietals," said parietals. Wellmann said that Additional social time was suggestions for a future one ity of students. 
Wellmann. students have said that, "that also proposed as a reason for were raised by council mem­"The next step is developing a 
The survey's results showed extra hour would help out a extended parietals. bers. scientifically sound survey that 
97 percent of male Notre Dame lot." Wellmann said that the extra Council member Rev. Joseph will have more credibility from 
students and 95 percent of fe­Often students go off campus hour was "not to extend parties Carey said that the survey, the administration," said 
male students favor the exten­at midnight and are back by for an extra hour, but to "facili­which was distributed at a Hall Wellmann. 
sion of parietals, and 3 percent 12:30 or 1, suggesting that ex­tate and foster relationships Presidents' Council meeting to She added that after gather­
and 5 percent opposed, accord­tending parietals to 1 a.m. between the sexes." She added hall presidents, most of whom ing the results from this second 
ing to Wellmann. would prevent this inconve­that 2:00 parietals are too posted it, was "not very scien­survey, the students helping 
It was divided into three pro­nience, according to Wellmann. early, especially when most stu­tific." Wellmann with the proposal, 
posals: extending parietals to 1 She also emphasized that quiet dents go out at 10 p.m. The way in which the survey Dave Horan, Jeff Dodd, and 
a.m. 
Sunday -Thursday; to 3 hours would be maintained. She stressed that the proposal was conducted was also ques­Kathleen Lynch, will make an­

a.m. 
on weekends; and 10 a.m. "The men and women, we as a preliminary act. tioned by Rev. George Rozum, other proposal to the C.L.C. 




-· ----~ ---· --------~-------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 



Hill whips Bill on 18th 
•

anntversary 

Bill: "Hill?" 
Hillary: "Yes Bill, just a minute, I'm on the phone." 

Bill: "Well Hill, I just wanted to wish you a Happy Anniv ... " 
Hillary: "Yes honey, 

that's nice... " (into the receiver) "Now you listen to me, I'm not asking for your support on this. If you don't convince every member of that sub-committee, your career is over!" (Hillary slams down the phone.) "Now what was it you wanted to tell me, dearest?" 
Bill: "Uh...nothing Hill. I'm going to play golf." 
From the sound of things, the Clintons enjoyed a quaint and quiet 18th anniversary weekend for everyone but themselves (What's the population of the U.S. estimated at now?). 
They spent Saturday at Yale for their 20-year law school reunion, and on Sunday, they went on a 9-mile bike ride along the Potomac River. Great. Real touching, guys. Were they his and her bikes or was it a two-seater? 
At least Chelsea was away in Connecticut for the weekend. 
I mean, it's nice to finally have a couple in the White House young enough to remember the many things a bed can be used for, but, let's face it: Hill and Bill just don't seem to have the fairy-tale aura of the the Kennedys. 
They spent yesterday morning together, but were apparently doing work, according to White House aides. Then the President ditched his wife and took ofT for the fairways. 
Call me crazy, but if I were Hillary, I'd be a little miffed. Does such a thing as 'Putter Envy' exist? Freud would be fascinated. 
I can just imagine their romantic dinner later last night. 
Bill: "I can hardly believe it's been 18 years, Hill. We've been through a lot together, sweet­heart. Let's go away for a day or two. I love ... " 
Hillary: "I know dear. But just think, we're the most powerful Presidents in the history o this country. We've got to play our cards right if we're going to be re-elected." 
Bill: "Yes, but honey, I thought we could for­get about all that just for a little while and get back to us." 
Hillary: "Oh cut the crap, Bill. I worked my butt ofT to get us here and I'm not going to let you waste our time. I would love to take a short vacation to check out the progress in the Middle East, but we have responsibilities at home that can not be ignored." 
Aide: "Uh... excuse me ... Mr. Presidents... Hillary, it's your hair dresser on line 1, the PTA on line 2 and, uh, Socks is hav­ing trouble with a hairball." 
I'm sure the American public could forgive them for taking a few days ofT. Come on Bill, tell her you'd marry her all over again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

JUDAY'S STAFF 
News Production Theresa Aleman Mark Zito Katie Murphy Ronald Veldman 
Sports Lynn Bauwens Beth Regan Accent Viewpoint Susan McGovern 
Rolando DeAguiar Lab Tech Graphics John Bingham Chris Weirup 
Tho Obscrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday <Xcept during <Xam and vacation p<riods. Tho Obscrv<r is a member of tho Associat<d Press. All «production rights are rescrvod. 
Steph Goldman Ad Design Manager 

Two Massachusetts scientists co-winners of 1993 Nobel Prize 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

In 1977. two scientists separately studying the virus that causes the common cold discovered an unknown structure for genes that revolution­ized genetics and helped other re­searchers earn a Nobel Prize. 
On Monday, Phillip Sharp and Richard Roberts won their own. The Massachusetts-based scientists were named co-recipients of the Nobel Prize in medicine and will share an $825,000 prize. 
"It felt good this morning, folks," Sharp said at a news conference hours after his wake-up call from the Nobel committee in Stockholm, Sweden, informing him of the award. 
"Everybody doing science wants to feel they are going to make a discov­ery that everybody will look up to," Roberts said at a separate news con­ference. 
"But I think there's a different kind of satisfaction that comes when you realize that all of your colleagues also think it was a great discovery." 
Sharp, 49, a native of Falmouth, Ky.. heads the biology department at 
Alleging harassment, agent turns in badge 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. 
An FBI agent who contends her career has been ruined because she publicly accused a superior of assault and sexual harassment declared Monday that she is turn­ing in her badge. Suzane J. Doucette, 39, told at a news conference was taking the action because the FBI had placed her on unpaid leave. Doucette argued that she was the victim of retaliation because she had made her allegations public in congressional testimony last spring. "This is a very sad day," she said, adding that she is not resigning but considers herself "constructively dis­charged" -or fired -because she was placed on unpaid leave. "I must get a new job to pay my bills," she said. Doucette, 39, said her ultimate goal is to win her federal lawsuit against the FBI and be reinstated with back pay. She joined the bureau in 1984. Doucette, who has been working in Tucson, Ariz .. said the FBI has a long history of sexual and racial discrimination, but employees remain silent because they fear retaliation. Doucette said superiors gave no reason why she was first placed on paid leave and then 10 days ago suspended without pay. But she said she is convinced it is retaliation for her May 26 testimony before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. The FBI declined com­ment on the ground that the case is pending in the courts. 
Publisher ofRushdie's 'Satanic Verses' shot 
OSLO, Norway 
The Norwegian publisher of "The Satanic Verses," the novel that led Muslim fundamentalists to stalk author Salman Rushdie, was shot and seriously wounded Monday outside his Oslo home. William Nygaard was shot three times, at least once in the back, as he got into a car, said Stein Haugen of the Oslo police. Haugen said police did not know who shot Nygaard and it was too early to tell whether the shooting was related to the Norwegian-language publication of Rushdie's book. But a troubled Rushdie indicated in a statement that he assumed it was. Rushdie -who has been in hiding since 

NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather(/1) forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 12. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
......-r ............. -.Ar 

cow WARM STATIONARY C 1993Accu·Woather, Inc. 

#lfj;\ NOBEL 
Medicine •1993

V7D 
Winners since 1983 
1993 Richard J. Roberts, 1988 Sir James W. Black, Britain & Phillip A. Great Britain Sharp, Gertrude Elion & United States George H. Hitchings, 
United States 

1992 Edwin G. Krebs, United States 1987 Susumu Tonegawa, & Edmond H. Fischer, Japan United States and Switzerland 1988 Stanley Cohen, 
United States 

1991 Erwin Neher & Bart Rita Levi-Montalcini, Sakmann, Italy Gennany 
1985 MichaelS. Brown & 1990 Joseph E. Murry & Joesph L. Goldstein, 
E. Donnall Thomas. United States United States 1984 Niels Kaj Jeme & 
1989 J. Michael Bishop & George Koehler, Harold E. Vannus, Switzerland & United States Cesar Milstein, Un~ed 
States 

1983 Barbara McClintock, United States 
APIWm.J.castotlo 

the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Roberts, 50, a native of Derby, England, works at New England 
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran ordered him killed in 1989 because of his novel -said he was devastated by the shooting. "He realizes that the attack was really meant for him," said Amanda Hopkinson of the Committee for the Defense of Salman Rushdie. "It is an appalling and tragic thing to have happened and such actions cannot be defended in the name of Islam." Many Muslims say "The Satanic Verses" is blasphemous. Nygaard, 50, was in serious but stable condition at Oslo's Ullevaal Hospital. He had received threatening letters after his publishing house, Oslo's Aschehoug Forlag, released one of the earliest translations of the book in April1989. 
Truce talks break down in Nicaragua 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua 
Truce talks between the government and a former Contra fighter known as "the Jackal" broke down over the weekend and a government Cabinet minister declared that "for us, the truce is over." Church officials said they feared renewed civil war. Many former Contra rebels have rearmed to protest government failure to provide them promised land, tools and other help in exchange for disarming. Many Sandinista troops, demo­bilized and jobless, also have rearmed. The government has been meeting with Jose Angel Talavera-the Jackal -since shortly after former Contras kidnapped govern­ment officials in August. Leftists kidnapped dozens of conservative government officials in reprisal. All 70 hostages were released unharmed. A truce was called in August to give all armed dissidents a chance to disarm. It expired Sept. 30, but had been extended until Monday. Other cease-fires were called, but never led to a settle­ment. In Managua on Monday, police arrested former army Maj. Donald Mendoza, who led the leftist group that took the conservatives hostage, as Mendoza waited outside presidential headquarters for an interview with government officials. Interior Minister Alfredo Mendieta said Sunday night that talks between the Jackal and a government commission failed and gave the rebels until Tuesday to accept the government position. 
Biolabs in Beverly, Mass. The two knew of each other's work, but weren't collaborating when they made their discoveries. 
Their work changed scientists' understanding about DNA makeup 
and  helped  launch  the  field  of  
biotechnology.  
Genes,  the  building blocks  of  

hereditary material, had been thought to be unbroken segments along strands of DNA. 
Roberts and Sharp discovered that individual genes can also be discon­tinuous -spread over several, sepa­rated segments. 
"Everybody thought that genes were laid out in exactly the same way, and so it came as a tremendous surprise at the time," Roberts said in an interview. 
In awarding the prize, the Nobel Assembly of the Karolinska Institute said Sharp and Roberts' research "has been of fundamental im­portance for today's basic research in biology, as well as for more mad­ically oriented research concerning the development of cancer and other diseases." 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
City  H  L  Denver London  49 63  30 50  Philadelphia Reno  57 67  32 38  
Los Angeles  73  59  Rome  75  66  
Atlanta  68  47  Miami  81  69  St.louis  62  39  
Boston Chicago  50 60  32 31  Minneapolis New York  61 55  38 36  Toronto  56  45  
Dallas  76  52  Paris  56  43  

Tuesday, October 12, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Whitfield assesses Jesuit influence in El Salvador 

Afternoon trickery 
Paul Gerni, nationally renowned trick shot artist, displays his talents near LaFortune. Gerni held a trick shot exhibition last night in the ballroom. The event was sponsored by Student Union Board. 

Alcohol awareness week October 18-24 
By MYRNA MALONEY News Writer 
The annual Alcohol Awareness week will kick off on Monday Oct. 18 with "Day of the Dead" an activity which will demonstrate the fact that every 22 minutes someone dies due to an alcohol-related accident or event, according to Tricia Wallace, president of RHA. 
Throughout the day 72 peo­ple from the Saint Mary's com­munity will be given a black T­shirt as well as a button show­ing the time of death and stat­ing the fact that they cannot communicate with anyone, Wallace said. 
Tuesday's theme will be 
"Don't Follow in their Footsteps" and consists of a path of footprints leading from the Cushwa-Leighton library and Haggar College Center and will continue to Madeleva Hall, honoring names of people af­fected by an alcohol related in­cident, Wallace said. 
On Wednesday there will be a study break in the dining hall. "Mocktails"(non-alcoholic bev­erages) will be served and free recipe books will distributed to all students. 
In order to further promote the "Don't Drink and Drive"theme, RHA will also be distributing key chains to the student body on Thursday, Wallace said. 
In other business: 
•Augusta 
Hall will be selling T-shirts next week for $10 each. The shirts are a part of the Saint Mary's anniversary celebration and include a Sesquicentennial motto on the back which states, "Not a school of girls without men, but 150 years of a women's college without boys." 

•Little 
Sibs Weekend has been changed from Feb. 18 due to Residence Advisor selec­tion. A new date has not yet been scheduled. 

•S.U.R.V. 
will hold an organi­zational meeting tonight in the Haggar Game Room at 6:30 


p.m. for anyone interested in volunteering this year. 

By DAVID CLAIRMONT News Writer 
The Jesuits were the intellectual heart of the move­ment toward peace in El Salvador, and their impact was felt both before and after the murder of six of their order in 1989, according to Theresa Whitfield, the produc­er and director of BBC2 Television in London, who presented her lecture last night as part of a series being presented by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Whitfield identified the Jesuit influence in El Salvador as instrumental to the peace­ful solution to the civil conflict which began in full force in 1981 and which, she says, reached its climax with the murder of six Jesuits and two women in 1989. 
It was the Jesuit University of Central America which became the "critical con­science" for the country as it attempted to fight through its political disputes. Specifically, Whitfield identified Ignacio Ellacuria as the Jesuit who was the "intellectual author of the negotiated solution." 
Ellacuria emerged as the foremost figure in promoting dialogue between the two political extremes, she said. The mindset that encouraged him during his time at UCA and during the evolving peace process was to do everything possible in a seemingly impos­sible situation, according to Whitfield. 
It was the strength he derived from his Christian background which, she said, carried him through the times in which it seemed unlikely that debate would ever be considered an acceptable alternative to violence. 
Ellacuria in particular, said Whitfield, believed that the violence by the military should be avoided but regrettably acknowledged that conflict which led to liberation as the "lesser evil." 
Whitfield commented that Ellacuria spoke critically of the Salvadoran government, the military, and the United States' provision of funds, a total of close to four billion dollars in aid, to Salvadoran soldiers. Whitfield also idl:mti­fied that, in 1986, Ellacuria proposed that negotiations ought to serve the function of putting pressure on both sides, and that this could only be done by a third party made up of representatives from civil unions, the church, edu­cational institutions, and small business. 
Recalling the inscription on the memorial of the six slain Jesuits, Whitfield quoted Ellacuria's belief that "We shall not work for the promo­tion of justice without paying the price. Whitfield said that the Jesuits' death played as crucial a role in the finalizing of peace negotiations as their lives. 
She noted that the forma­tion of a committee to investi­gate the priests' murder showed that the Jesuit mur­ders had "totally changed the political equation for the United States in terms of aid." 
The difficulties which this committee ran into while investigating the case showed, said Whitfield, that the prob­lems with the Salvadoran situ­ation went far beyond the event of the murders. It entailed a military lacking accountability and unwilling to adjust to the new political climate. 



Bombings of the University The United States was also had become common by the forced to realize the implica­middle of the 1980's and tions of having funded a mili­Ellacuria was even driven into tary capable of such atrocities 
exile once because of a death as the 1989 slayings. 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is now accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (April1994, September 1994,January 1995) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in a a life or health science degree program. 

• 
Aminimum G.P.A. of 2.5. Amore competitive G.P.A. is favored. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 
• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. 

• 
Awell-rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
Full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 


--=_*rtj'"'l"w.,,~..~.~. Call: 1-800-888-4777 or : Write: Director ofAdmissions
' ~ "' ·;~,...,•~ 2501 West 84th Street, Minneapolis, MN 55431 

The NDE Fourth Day Community Proudly Presents 
Catherine Lacugna 
of the Notre Dame Department of Theology 
on 



"The Trinity and Relationships" 
Wednesday Night 7:15 1n the Keenan/Stanford Chapel 
Refreshments will be served afterwards 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 12, 1993 



Dr. Kevorkian ordered to stand trial in charge ofsuicide assistance 
By JULIA PRODIS 
Associated Ptess 
REDFORD TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian snickered as he was ordered Monday to stand trial on a second charge of assisting a suicide, this one in the death of a 73-year-old cancer patient. 
District Judge Karen Khalil set an Oct. 26 arraignment and released Kevorkian on bond. 
Kevorkian smiled and shook his head as Khalil ordered him to stand trial. After the brief court appearance, the 65-year­old retired pathologist told re­porters: "You people are wit­nessing the inquisition. It's still alive." 
Kevorkian has been present at 18 suicides since 1990. 
On Sept. 9, police found Kevorkian at the deathbed of Donald O'Keefe, who died hours after Kevorkian was re­leased on bond and ordered to stand trial on a charge of assisting in an Aug. 4 suicide. Kevorkian faces a Feb. 15 trial in Detroit in the death of Thomas Hyde, 30, who suffered from Lou Gehrig's disease. 
A motion by Kevorkian's lawyer, Geoffrey Fieger, to dis­miss the charge in O'Keefe's death was rejected. 
"The issue of assisted suicide is one which must be addressed not only in this courtroom, not only in this state, but in this nation -and it must be addressed in the proper fo­rums, with input and leader-



Americans explore land ofwar 
By HUGH MULLIGAN 
Associated Press 
LAIKHE 

Americans returning to Vietnam often pursue an itiner­ary of strange-sounding places not found on tourist maps: the Rock Pile, Hamburger Hill, Apache Country, Dogpatch, the Iron Triangle. 
Finding old battlefields and fire bases requires patience, ingenuity, hours of bone-jarring travel over cratered roads, waiting for ferries to cross rivers and an interpreter old enough to remember the war. 
Vietnam is a young country. More than half its 6 7 million population was born after the 1968 Tet offensive. 
Some help is available. Gen. Phan Tu Quang, who was head honcho moving supplies down the Ho Chi Minh Trail, and Ha Van Lu, the north's former UN ambassador, have formed Veterans Tourism service to escort American Vietnam vets to Khe Sanh, the Au Shau and Ia Orang valleys and other combat zones. 
"Travel is hard class," says guide Tran Quoc Cong. "Sometimes you sleep on the floor of the province guest house. You better bring plenty 
Vietnam 
continued from page l 
are available or advertised, 
I due to economic sanctions 
' against those countries. 
f 
When away from the People
~ 
to People tour, Des Rosiers was 
~ able to visit with her Vietnamese Dominican sisters. Formerly, the main source of
t 
Dominican income was school­teaching, but after the fall of Saigon and the Communist takeover, all schools were shut down except those run by the government. Now the sisters run day care for the more affiuent Vietnamese. 
Des Rosiers ended, "whether they're old or whether they're young, whether they're in the city or in the country, I see beautiful Vietnamese people being restricted." 
of insect spray." He quoted a price of less than $100 for a three-day tour out of Danang. 
Cong recently led two American amputees back to Khe Sanh. One had lost a leg, the other an arm in the 7 5-day siege that left each side with the war's highest casualties. They were surprised at the hordes of scrap hunters comb­ing the bleak plateau for shell casings and armor fragments. 
Vietnam leads the world in exporting scrap metals, mostly to Japan. "This now our most dangerous occupation," Cong says. "Live rounds have killed nearly 5,000 people since peace came. Sometimes a water buf­falo or a cow is blown to bits." 
Girl guides barely in their teens and speaking bizarre English, show the way to the top of Marble Mountain where a Viet Cong field hospital shared a cave with an artillery 

Ireland 
continued from page 1 
Irish Republican Army, John Hume, head of Northern Ireland's Social Democratic Labor Party, and representa­tives of British and Irish gov­ernments to campus as a means of promoting peace. 
"If this University would come out and take a forceful stand (against the British gov­ernment), it would send shock waves through Ireland and Britain," he said. 
Although Adams has been repeatedly denied a United States visa because of his re­fusal to denounce his party's 
unit that shelled the huge Marine facility at Danang. "Totally awesome," they tell you. 
Some areas remain off-limits, like Dak Pek and Oak Sut, the Special Forces camps that perched on the spine of the mountains bordering Laos. "The hill tribes are still unset­tled," explains Bruno Villard, who books battlefield tours from Saigon. "They have not accepted the authority of the Hanoi government." 
Like other commercial ships, 
. the Ocean Pearl was not al­lowed to enter Cam Ranh Bay, the deep water port built by the Americans which became a Soviet naval base after Saigon fell to the communists. 
"The Russians are packing up to go home," a Vietnamese pilot told the bridge officers, "but they are in no hurry to face the Russian winter. 
use of vwlence, Kmg mam­tained that "if the University of Notre Dame invites Gerry Adams, it will be very difficult for the Clinton Administration to deny him a visa." 
King's lecture "The Tragedy in Northern Ireland: The Failure of American Catholics to Respond," was sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government to ad­dress the campus Northern Ireland Awareness Group. 
A graduate of Notre Dame's Law School, King is a freshman member of Congress repre­senting New York's third con­gressional district. He is a member of the Ad Hoc Committee for Irish Mfairs and has visited Northern Ireland at least thirteen times. 

ship from the medical profes­sion," Khalil said. 
O'Keefe and Hyde died by in­haling carbon monoxide from a canister through a face mask. Kevorkian publicly admitted helping Hyde die and urged prosecutors to charge him in order to settle the issue of as­sisted suicide. 
Kevorkian has remained si­lent on his role in O'Keefe's death. Wayne County Assistant Prosecutor Tim Kenny said O'Keefe's death had Kevorkian's "signature." 



Make the Choice to Make a Change. 
oldjocks 

girls and Spuds 
m1thetube 
pushing suds. 
music 
Y'outh and cars 
intpon bet"rs 
in trendy bars. 
TV dreams 

st4l th<• deal only prolniSt• what ain't real. bloodshot eyes bought tht• lit:•s hollow words in slick db;h,ruise. Cht~,atHhriU mmnent.s drinking boozt'· wastt~d kid "Ifs you who lost\.. So drink your suds bt.' tht> stud. Man. you look ~· 811, ~ pathetic. 
llrink sells the dream. You pay. 
'f 


NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
Sponsored by: Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education 

~---------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 12, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
Student senate discusses need for change 
By ANALISE TAYLOR Memorial do not satisfy the will go toward the Freshman News Writer need of South Quad males for Memorial Beeler-Hipp 
laundry facilities, and North Scholarship Fund. However, the 

There is a need for new and Quad males have even fewer amount cannot exceed $25,000. improved laundry facilities for options given the closing of the Weekend Wheels will begin males on campus, according to facilities in Washington Hall," again Nov. 5 because students Dave Butler, executive director according to a proposed resolu­expressed renewed interest in of the legal department of tion. the service. Student Government. Some senators expressed con­"There were very few stu­
LaFortune Student Center, cern over whether St. Michael's dents using it last year, but stu­Badin Hall, and Rockne Laundry is a viable option for dents came back and said they Memorial are the only options some students. want it," said Student Body currently available to male stu­President Frank Flynn. dents on campus. Although On Oct. 4, the budget com­Flanner and Grace Halls pro­mittee approved revenue from Fall Festival will be from 8:30 vide laundry facilities for resi­the sale of "The Shirt", a.m. to 1 p.m.· Nov. 6. dents, they are inadequate and Weekend Wheels, and addi­Volunteers will plant bulbs in cannot accommodate non-resi­tional fall bands on campus. South Bend for a service pro­dents, Butler said. Twelve and a half percent of ject. Sign-ups are today in the 
"Badin Hall and Rockne the revenue from "The Shirt" dining halls. 

Appalachia to stand test oftime 
By TED ANTHONY Burky, 32, a native. bread. Associated Press Even today, the village of 40 She also runs the Hutte, or 
people, surrounded by another "Little Hut," a restaurant fa­
HELVETIA, W.Va. 150 in the hills, is the kind of mous for Swiss fare and Old 

Deep in Appalachia, a vil­place drivers rarely reach acci­World ambience, and the lage carved from the forest by dentally. Beekeeper Inn, a house without bewildered Swiss immigrants In many ways, Helvetia is a a telephone or television set. four generations ago is strug­travel brochure incarnate. gling to save both its heritage Birds chirp and a clean brook The Swiss Embassy has and its future. flows through an almost cliched praised the town as "the most 
In Helvetia, the names in the countryside scene. Buttercups intact Swiss colony in the 
hillside graveyard are Swiss­have overgrown the church United States," and Swiss from German, the landscape is pas­lawn and towering pine trees Baltimore, Pittsburgh and toral and the cheese is nothing shield the town from too much Washington, D.C., visit often. like its deli-counter namesake. sun. "This is the only Swiss com­Strands of Old World culture "This is history -our his­munity that I know of that still endure. tory. If we lose it, we won't maintains an identity in the 
Like many ethnic enclaves, know who we are," says Kim Appalachians," says Gerry 
Helvetia's population scattered Delaney, 26, who returned to Milnes, folk arts coordinator· at 
and community spirit dissipated her hometown after earning a the Augusta Heritage Center at 
over the years. But Helvetia's criminal justice degree. Davis & Elkins College. He is 
remoteness saved its flavor and At the forefront is Eleanor filming a documentary about 
those who remain are using old Mailloux, the unincorporated Helvetia. 
traditions to effect new pros­hamlet's unofficial mayor, po­
perity. lice force and one-woman "These people work very 
The nearest grocery store is tourism bureau. hard at this. They are very se­
35 miles away in Elkins, and "When people from foreign rious and proud of where they 
one of two ways to get to countries call and want to see come from. Everybody has a 
Helvetia is a rocky dirt road rural West Virginia, Charleston pull toward home. But Helvetia 
through some of the area's sends them up to us," Mailloux is such an unusual community 
most rugged hills. said on a recent rainy after­that it's not just a regional 
"Our distance from the high­noon, snacking on lumps of thing, it's an ethnic thing. 
way saves us," says Alvin Swiss cheese and thick, crusty People always come back." 

I~ 
Jn celebration of 
~~ ~~~~ ~~m~~ ~~~~~ 
Saturday, October 16, Six 01clock in the evening. ··lesbian, gay, bisexual people, 
$12 per guest. Transportation available. RSVP Erik (634-3107) by Friday noon. 
and their family and friends. 
The proper attire for this party is an open mind and an ability to be yourself. Here's your chancel 
·=:m:ml====::::m:m::m()::::::·
........ ................ 
·=:==== :::...........=m:.:==m==m. •
Yet another unbelievably fantastic event sponsored by that .. ... ..
.. ..... .. ..
..........
. . ..... ...
. .. ..
ever-perky, ever-present Gay/Lesbian Group .. ..... ... .. 
................... ....... ... 
1 .............

PO Box 194 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 ......... 
..... 
. 


Arafat gains important ally in head ofthe PLO 
By SALAH NASRAWI 
Associated Press 
TUNIS 
PLO chairman Yasser Arafat gained an influential ally Monday in efforts to get the group's policy-making body to endorse a peace accord with Israel. 
Farouk Kadoumi, head of the Palestine Liberation Organization's political de­partment, set aside misgivings about parts of the accord and joined Arafat in urging the Palestine Central Council to en­dorse it. 
The 107-member council is expected to vote on the accord on Tuesday at the earliest. 
The pact gives Palestinians a measure of self-rule in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, with their powers to be spread over a wider area pending the out­come of talks in the next three years. 
Terms of the accord require approval by the Palestine National Council, or parlia­ment-in-exile. Approval by the Central Council is not neces­sary for the issue to go to a vote by the PNC, but rejection by the council would seriously weaken the accord's chances for approval. 
Radicals within the PLO op­pose the accord because it fails to deal with the status of Jerusalem or guarantee the right of refugees to return home. 
"This was the maximum we could get under the current in­ternational circumstances and because of Arab weakness re­sulting from the Gulf War," Arafat said Monday in urging the council to endorse the ac­cord. 
"This is the first stage, it is an essential step upon which we will build our independent Palestinian state," he said. "Those who reject it should understand that our next gen­erations will have to continue the long march." 


Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
page6 The Observer • International News 

Serbs fail to give the Mob chases U.S. troops from dock 
By ED McCULLOUGH rebuild the economy. About chief of mission at the U.S. 100 other U.N. personnel­Embassy, enter the gate, and
Associated Press 

including 25 U.S. troops -are police stood by or blocked traf­

promised go-ahead 
PORT-AU-PRINCE already in the country to do ad­fic while a group of shouting 




Make the Choice to Make a Change. 
NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
Sponsored by: Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education 
By TEDDIE WEYR 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB 
Serbs failed to give the promised go-ahead Monday for the United Nations to send badly need aid into two Bosnian Muslim towns, and new fighting broke out in cen­tral Bosnia. · 
Serbs in their stronghold of Banja Luka in northwest Bosnia-Herzegovina promised on Sunday to allow 250 tons of food and medicine to reach Maglaj and Tesanj, which aid workers say are jammed with as many as 150,000 Muslim refugees. 
But the convoy, which would be the first aid shipment into the towns since June 1, re­mained in Banja Luka all day. 
"It's clear the Bosnian Serbs have been dragging their feet," said spokesman Peter Kessler for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in Zagreb, the Croatian capital. 
Kessler said the convoy had been inspected by the Serbs and he was awaiting approval for the 45-mile trip. 
Family feared Biehl's death in South Mrica 
By SAHM VENTER Ass«x:ian.d Pres. 
CAPETOWN 
When Amy Biehl left home to help blacks in South Africa, her parents feared she might be attacked, even killed, but they never tried to stop her. 
"Amy needed to do what Amy wanted to do," her father. Peter Biehl, told The Associated Press on Monday, the day after he laid flowers at the spot where a mob of black youths stabbed his daughter to death. 
Biehl, a chief marketing manager from Newport Beach. Calif.. laughed as he remem­bered what made his ''most demanding" child different. 
When she was 10. Amy stunned the audience at a pub­lic speaking contest by declar· 
l I I 
I I t 
UNHCR officials complained 
that the authorization should 
take minutes rather than days. 
In a statement, the Bosnian Serb army accused UNHCR of­ficial Larry Hollingsworth of "repeatedly planning and send­,ing convoys without any per­mission or agreement with the 
Serb authorities." 
The statement was faxed to 
The Associated Press in 
Belgrade, Yugoslavia, by the 
Serbs' SRNA news agency. 
Maglaj and Tesanj are in a 
pocket of government-held ter­
ritory in central Bosnia that has 
been cut off for months. The 
last aid convoy to the area, on 
June 1, was shelled and two 
Danish aid workers were killed. 
Since then, relief officials 
have warned that the area has 
become a potential humanitar­
ian disaster, although some aid 
has been airdropped by 
Western cargo planes. 
Meanwhile, new fighting broke out early Monday in cen­tral Bosnia as Muslim-led gov­ernment forces tried to cut a main supply route of their Bosnian Croat foes. 
ing a woman would someday be president of the United States. 
For two years after she graduated from Stanford University in 1989, she spent Sunday mornings making pan­cakes in a Washington soup kitchen, and Sunday evenings with homeless women in a shelter. 
So when Amy, a registered Democrat, decided to work at the Community Law Center at South Africa's mostly black University of the Western Cape, her moderate Republican parents were not surprised. 
"We feared that she might 
be killed but it wasn't some" 
thing we talked about," her 
father said. 
The nightmare came true 
Aug. 25. when Amy, 26. drove 
some black friends home to 
Army-backed toughs wrecked plans for American troops to land Monday as part of an international peace mission, drove away U.S. diplomats waiting to greet them and threatened to create another Somalia. 
The band of 25 to 50 men, some of them armed, then beat up merchants in the nearby market and fired guns while roving through the capital, in· eluding near the seaside U.S. Embassy. No casualties were reported. 
U.S. and U.N. officials said the disturbances would not halt the overall peace mission. But it was yet another direct chal­lenge by the military to the U.N. efforts to restore democracy to Haiti. 
Monday's landing was to be­gin in earnest the peace mis­sion to restore democracy and 

GEORGE McGOVERN 

1972 Democratic Candidate for President 
speaks on 

Turbulent Times: Vietnam and the United States' Role in the World Today 
1 0 1 DeBartolo 
?p.m. 
October 14 
' 
. . I .·fl
ONE 
.·;fj.... 
vance work. 
After the disturbances, the White House delayed the de­ployment of nearly 200 American military medics, engineers and civil affairs spe­cialists aboard the USS Harlan County, an amphibious landing ship anchored 800 yards off­shore. There was no word on when the troops might dock. 
Following the killing of at least 17 American soldiers in Somalia last week, criticism has been growing in the United States over participation in the mission. 
Port officials supported by the 
Haitian military blocked the 
Harlan County's docking by 
moving another ship to the pier 
where arrangements were 
made days ago for the U.S. ship 
to berth at 10 a.m. Monday. 
Guards at the dock refused to 
let Vicki Huddleston, deputy Haitians flied off a bus. 
Described later by a trem­bling Huddleston as "a group of gangsters. a group of thugs," the men shoved diplomats and reporters gathered for the scheduled docking, then punched and kicked their cars as they fled. 
"We don't want foreigners coming here and trying to tell us what to do!" one man screamed. Another shouted: "We're going to do to them what they did in Somalia!" About a half-dozen men made similar references to Somalia. 
Haiti's military is betting the international community does not have the will to force it from power. The military seized control two years ago by overthrowing President Jean­Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's first freely elected leader. 
~ -~ --------------~-----------------------~--­
' 
Tuesday, October 12, 1993 The Observer • International News page? 
• 
. 

Thatcher urged to stop the release ofher memoirs 
By MAUREEN JOHNSON political favorite, wrote in published this week in London's together with her for 18 years, runoff. 
Associated Press Monday's Evening Standard Sunday Times, she castigated 14 of them as her partner," Lawson, 61, resigned in 1989 newspaper. two other top Cabinet ministers said Howe, 67. "From time to over her resistance to linking LONDON To critics, the publication of in her final administration. time I dared to disagree ... I the British pound to other 
She had reservations about "The Downing Street Years" She accused her mild-man­resigned on policy grounds European currencies. 
John Major, thought her trea­culminates what they regard as nered foreign secretary, when it became impossible to In Germany, where excerpts sury chief was foolish and carping and vindictive behavior Geoffrey Howe, of "bile and go on any longer." of the memoirs also have been 
by a powerful prime minister treachery," and said Chancellor Howe's resignation speech in published, Thatcher raised eye­couldn't stand her long-serving 
foreign secretary. who has never come to terms of the Exchequer Nigel October 1990 was a devastating brows with revelations that she 
As Margaret Thatcher's with her downfall in November Lawson's exchange-rate policy criticism of Thatcher's prickly had made a concerted diplo­harshly critical memoirs drib­1990. was "folly." attitude toward the rest of the matic effort just weeks before ble out, first in leaks and now Lady Thatcher, 68, got a less­Lord Lawson and Lord Howe European Community, and ex­the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 to in official extracts, even some than-overwhelming reception retorted that she was looking posed bitter divisions in the fi­halt Chancellor Helmut Kohl's admirers are urging the Iron at last week's annual confer­for scapegoats. nal years of her 11 1/2-year push for German unification. Lady to shut up. ence of the governing Like Lady Thatcher, they now tenure. 
"In so restlessly indulging her Conservative Party after her have titles as members of the Soon afterward, she was Kohl told the German televi­pique, Margaret Thatcher has opinions of Major leaked. She unelected House of Lords, the challenged for the party lead­sion station SAT -1 that said he was uncomfortable with traditional destination for ership, fell short of winning re­"Margaret Thatcher never
cast aside a potential role of 
incalculable power and influ­big ideas and too concerned Britain's dispossessed or re­election and quit when almost made a secret of the fact that ence," Alan Clark, former de­about splits in the party. tired political heavyweights. her entire 22-member Cabinet she wasn't in favor of German fense minister and a Thatcher In the first official extract "My only sin is having worked warned she would lose the unity. 
Shiite guerillas launch Gorbachev to attend GOP bash 
By KAREN BALL Reagan put it. with differing opinions. 
Associated Press The Senatorial Committee's "They'll have a chance to ask 
chairman, Sen. Phil Gramm, R­if the Reagan military buildup 
ByNICOLAS TATRO village of Baraachit that devel­WASHINGTON Texas, wrote in a letter to really brought the Soviet Union 
oped into a duel with how­Heavyweight Republicans Republican donors that to its knees. Now that would be 

South Lebanon attacks 
Associated Press 
itzers, mortars and Katyusha donors are being lured with an Gorbachev now "travels the worth the price of admission," rockets. unlikely dinner guest for a world, fostering communication Hill said.
LEBANON 
The Israeli army also re­fund-raiser next month -for­and diplomacy among all He added that if Gorbachev
Two rival Muslim guerrilla groups jointly attacked Israeli­ported light arms fire and mor­mer Soviet leader Mikhail nations." "makes Republicans open their 
backed forces Monday to tar shells fired at posts of the Gorbachev. Gorbachev is speaking to the wallets ... then that's a sign of a SLA-an Israel-backed militia "Inner Circle" of the Senatorial clever fund-raiser." Inviting lib­
protest the lsraeli-PLO accord. 
"It's sort of capitalism at its Committee -or Republicans eral Sen. Edward M. Kennedy,
Israeli gunners later pounded -by Hezbollah in the eastern finest -using all available re­who have paid at least a $1,000 D-Mass.. would be fine if itsector of the security zone andsouthern Lebanon. 
said the SLA fired back with sources," said Republican initiation fee -as part of a brought in donations, Hill said.
There were no reported ca­
small arms. strategist Ann Stone. "It's ei­series of speeches by former Stone said maybe thesualties. 
Additional Hezbollah attacks ther capitalism at its finest or world leaders. Reagan and for­Gorbachev-GOP dinner is not so
The pro-Iranian Hezbollah 
were made later Monday on its most bizarre." mer British Prime Minister strange, noting that Democratic
and the mainstream Shiite 
SLA posts in the northern part Gorbachev will be the fea­Margaret Thatcher have ap­National Committee ChairmanAmal militia said they infil­of the zone, the army said, tured attraction at a fund-rais­peared before GOP donors, as David Wilhelm spoke to thetrated Israel's self-designated 
adding that both the SLA and er Nov. 4 sponsored by the well. religious right not along ago,
"security zone" in south 
Lebanon and clashed with a Israeli soldiers returned fire. National Republican Senatorial with an appearance at the 
Committee, which works to "I don't think there's any­Christian Coalition. 
Near this hilltop close to theSouth Lebanon Army patrol. 
SLA's AI Khiam prison, Israeli elect GOP candidates to the U.S. thing strange about it," said
It was the first joint attack on 
forces fired some 20 rounds Senate. Gary Koops, a spokesman for When Thatcher spoke, thethe Israeli security zone by the 
the Senatorial Committee. "It's Senatorial Committee donated
from five 155mm howitzers
two factions, which have long into mountains near Meidoun, Gorbachev's attendance all been focused on the chang­$50,000 to her foundation thatbeen competing for dominance 
strikes some Republicans a bit ing world order." promotes free enterprise inSujud and Rislan. The hillside
of Lebanon's 1.2 million 
odd because the former com­David Hill, a Republican poll­Europe, Koops said.
lit up with flashes and severalShiites. 
munist leader worked to pre­ster for Senate candidates, said Gorbachev's fee will probablyfires broke out. 
Security sources in Lebanon 
serve the Soviet empire, or the people who attend those kind of be in the same ballpark, heNo injuries or damages weresaid there were no casualties 
reported in any of the clashes, "Evil Empire" as Ronald political gatherings like guests said.reported in the clash near the 
THE 


DOMER DASH 
WHAT: A two-person (1 male & 1 female) team obstacle course. WHERE: At the JACC, Gym 2. WHEN: October 13, Wednesday, 7:30pm. WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'. HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office. Deadline Oct. 12. 
Participate and compete for prizes worth over $100 
** A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Event** 
*** Sponsored by: Office of Recreational Sports & Office of Alcohol and Drug Education *** 

Yeltsin moves to give more power to voters 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement of intent to Jennifer Habrych at 314 LaFortune or 309 Haggar. For more information, call Jennifer at 631-4540. 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin moved to give more power to Russian voters Monday by ordering that both chambers of Russia's new parliament should be elected, instead of just the lower cham­ber. 
Yeltsin said the upper cham­ber, the Federation Council, will be elected on Dec. 12 along with the larger State Duma. The order was issued as Yeltsin departed for Tokyo for a three­day state visit. 
The upper chamber will con­sist of two representatives from each of the Russian Federation's 89 regions. Previous plans were for each region to send two appointed delegates. 
Representatives to both chambers will serve four-year terms. They are to meet for the first time 30 days after they are elected. 
Yeltsin disbanded the old parliament on Sept. 21 and called for the December elec­tions to the new body, collec­tively known as the Federal Assembly. His action broke an 18-month standoff between the president and hard-line law­makers over the pace of eco­nomic reforms in post-Soviet Russia. 








BUSINESS 
page 8 Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
Pharmaceutical giant makes cuts 
Talks to end coal strike planned for Wednesday 
LOS ANGELES 
DETROIT
October 11, 1993 
WASHINGTON 
· 
Infinity Broadcasting Corp .• 
The natlon·s automakers 
The Federal Trade
~~~ t3593.41 I High l3,6li.Oll Highest close 13,652.119 
pausing in its shopping spree 
are expected to post a com­
Commission has asked major 
.;. ,.. +8.67 j Low 13,565.461 August 25, 1993 
for high-profile radio stations. 
bined loss of $74 million for the 
music companies to provide 
turned to the programming 
third quarter because of pro· 
information about compact disc 
367E 
duction problems at General
side with a deal that will give it 
sales for an investigation into
f'.J~ _,. 

control of Westwood One Inc. If 
Motors Corp. But the shortfall 
alleged price fixing, industry
362E 
\I \ l.l-­
will still be a vast improvement
the deal announced Monday 
officials acknowledged.The
..... F 
357E
rv­
goes as planned. Infinity will 
over the $734 million loss the 
nation's major music compa­
v 

352E 
eventually own 25 percent of 
companies reported for the 
nies have been asked to pro­
Westwood One. the nation's 
same period last year. GM is 
vide information by Oct. 18.
347E 
largest producer and distribu­
th~ only one of the Big Three 
Trish Heimers. a spokeswoman
342E 
tor of news, talk. sports and 
expected to report a loss for 
for Bertelsmann AG, the parent
337E 
entertainment radio program-
the quarter. typically the weak­
of Bertelsmann Music Group.
ming. 611 •\ii!fi..'<}tj
~1/93 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 12/1/93 
est period for automakers. 
said Monday. 





uslwts 
II dates: OCTOBER 12th, 13th& 14th IItimes: 9:30am· 6:30pm (12th &13th) 9:30am -12 noon (14th) IIlocations: LIBRARY CONCOURSE L\FORTUNE /O'HARA LOUNGE 
Must present N.D. identification and wear short-sleeved shirt/top in order tv receive injection sponsored by Student Affairs & Human Resources 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY 
. 
Ill 


LONDON, ENGLAND 
By MICHELLE KOIDIN 
Associated Pross Writer 
INDIANAPOUS 

Eli Lilly and Co.. fulfilling a prediction made this summer by incoming CEO Randall Tobias. said Monday it was cut­ting 4.000 jobs because of high­er research costs and lower prices. 
Tobias announced an early­retirement program that he said would cut the Wly staff by 
2.000 employees by the middle of next year -about 10 per­cent of the pharmaceutical giant's workforce. 
Another 2.000 cuts would come from restricting the use of contract workers and through "normal attrition and strict hiring practices." 
Tobias. the first Eli Wly chief executive from outside the 
MARKET ROUND UP 
company. was appointed in June and told analysts the next month that cuts were coming. 
On Monday he said workers were concerned. but support­ive. 
"I cannot imagine that there is any employee in this compa­ny ... who has not been think­ing about this. given the amount of rumors that have been going on in the halls and speculation and so forth." he said. 
The pharmaceutical business. once one of the country's most profitable industries. has been hurt in recent years by increas­ing research costs. the advent of health reform and pressure for lower costs. 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. announced last month it was offering early retirement to 530 employees and that further reductions likely would follow. 
"We must make changes that will enable us to meet our cus­tomers' pressing health care needs at prices they believe bring them value," Tobias said. "We believe that a slimmed­down lilly will be even better positioned to take advantage of the many global opportunities during this time of fundamental change in our markets." 
Wly said it intends to sharply reduce staff in its London head­quarters and its Vienna region­al office. while continuing to expand in Europe and else­where. 
The company also said it would cease in vivo imaging and therapeutics research at Hybritech. Inc.. a subsidiary in the Lilly Medical Devices and Diagnostics Division. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Associated Press 

CHARLESTON. W.Va. 
Negotiators for the United Mine Workers and the Bituminous Coal Operators Association will be back to the bargaining table by Wednesday. officials said Monday. 
Herb Fishgold. an associate of mediator Bill Usery in Washington. D.C.. said the two sides were successful in small­er-scale meetings last week. 
"The most important thing when you're involved in a dis­pute is that everyone's singing out of the same hymnbook. that everyone knows exactly what the nature of those particular issues are." Fish gold said. 
"They needed to share some information with each other. go back to their respective princi­ples." 
Fishgold said this week would be "critical" for negotiations. 
"We're very hopeful that it will" be resolved this week. Fishgold said. "There's no doubt in my mind both parties want to get it resolved. but from wanting to get it resolved to getting it resolved is a big step." 
Both UMW spokesman Jim Grossfeld and association spokesman Tom Hoffman declined comment. 
The union says it has more than 1 7.500 miners on strike in West Virginia and six other states. 
t t 
r 
t 
INFORMATION MEETING: Tuesday, October 12, 1993 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 



VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accutately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, le11ers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631 '6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 Ncws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

ED MANIER HARD SLIDER 
For the Clintons' Health Care Plan, Part II 
will be to achieve parity be­the most affiuent among us buy
expenditures per person have On the other hand, every irrational fear? 
tween health care and the rest medical care that way. A sales­
grovvn an average 4.4 percent person in my family for whom The Notre Dame community
of the economy. Success may man's dream. No wonder old 
every ten years (after adjust­someone else made health care is comprised, to a great extent, 
require discipline and behav­doctors at the AMA, who speak 
ment for inflation}. During this decisions got nothing but the of healthy young adults used to
ioral change on the part of for fewer than 40% of physi­
same interval gross domestic best: from the kidney operation getting rid of ailments by work­
those members of the society cians and surgeons, are sorry
product per capita increased at Northwestern Children's ing up a good sweat. But imag­
least likely to change, those to see it go. You owe it to your
2.2 percent every ten years. Hospital, the removal of a tu­ine you have a seriously ill child Health care costs have been mor embedded in a leg muscle or parent. Will you follow the growing twice as fast as the (benign) at Billings Hospital of "nothing but the best" rule on ' Health care costs gross domestic product for fifty the University of Chicago, to the their behalf? If you do, you will 'cost efficient, eco­
have been growing years, a period roughly corre­removal of my father's cancer­contribute to another mass nomically managed sponding to the introduction of ous lung at the Crile Clinic in phenomenon detailed by
twice as fast as the gross care or HMO plans cur­
so-called "wonder drugs" just Cleveland. Professor Newhouse. domestic product for fifty before World War Two. In fact, Many of us, if we can afford Health care plans which rently attract significantly Newhouse explains the accel­to, purchase (directly or indi­assure patients complete free­
years...' healthier members.' 
eration in the rate of growth in rectly through employer manip­dom in physician choice (fee for medical costs by "The march of ulation of prices or the wage service plans such as Blue science. We buy what [biomed­bill) expensive health care Cross/Blue Shield) increasingly who can afford not to. 
ical] science offers." plans we think will minimize serve sicker people at greater
You and me, brothers and children to try to imagine a life 
But are we "rational econom­medical risk for our loved ones. risk of short term mortality and 
sisters. · With time we can in which all economic growth is 
ic" players in the biomedical Is there any other market, in the high medical costs of life's 
wreck any health care plan by channeled into improvements
market place? Or are many of commodities or services, where end game. Cost efficient,
exacerbating the inequities and in health care and then work to 
us irrationally risk averse, such a large percentage of pur­economically managed care or
inefficiencies of a "two tier" expedite passage of the best 
drawn to "Cadillac medicine" as chasers are driven by such HMO plans currently attract
medical system, a layer for us, possible version of the Clintons' 
moths to the flame? I have motives? Is the structure of the significantly healthier mem­
is a layer for them. health care plan.
known three well educated, health care market uniquely bers.
Speaking September 30th as Ed Manier is a Notre Dame 
independent, terminally ill dysfunctional because it con­When individuals with serious 
a panelist at the John F. professor of philosophy, cur­
patients who chose Hospice tains too many purchasers who illnesses switch to "the blues"
Kennedy School of Government, rently working at Harvard 
home care as a means of deal­buy things they don't need and (BC/BS) the relatively greater
Newhouse showed that for the University. His column appears
ing with the coming of death. couldn't afford out of love or risks they face drive the price of 
last fifty years health care every other Tuesday. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

GCXJ[) AFT/3RNOON, 613NTl&M/3N. IA1 t-T. COMMIWO&R. TR.IPUR, 
NAVY CHAP~JRON!3 FOR THIS 
Y/3,4/?.'5 TA/t.H{X}/( A9-:0C/A­
710N CONVffl770N,_ I 
7DWA!?f} THAT !3VO, I WI~ Be F3f<lfflNG eACH 91UAIJRON, Re­V1!3WIN3 UJHAT ITMeANS 7lJ CONPUOT YOURSUV/35 AS OF­FICE!?S ANO f£NTl&Mf3N! ANYQ()£5T/ONS --~--: !3fflJ!<£ Wf3 GeT5TAI<ll'IJ? 

Y?.3,51R, JIJ3T 
WHATT/M/3 JOIN 
157H& U5, {}//) 6ANTt8T? YOU? 
/ \ 

" The killer awoke before 
dawn.  He put his  
boots on."  
Jim Morisson  

page 10 Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Similarities between Somalia, Vietnam demand consideration 
Dear Editor: 
As the United States moves to deepen its commitment to the United Nations' mission in Somalia, critics of the Clinton administration's policy have increasingly resorted to raising the specter of the Vietnam War. 
President Bush declared the "Vietnam syndrome" dead after the conclusion of the Gulf War, but recent events have resur­rected the debate concerning the lessons learned from America's most controversial war and their implications for contemporary policy. 
There is a vast corpus of liter­ature that serves as a post­mortem on Vietnam. One work which merits reconsideration is a 1984 Department of Defense document (drafted partly as a response to the Vietnam con­flict) which outlines six criteria which should be addressed when considering the use of 
U.S. military forces. 
The Clinton administration would be well served by dusting ofl' this document and applying its six criteria to the Somalia imbroglio. 
1. The U.S. should not commit its forces to battle unless there is a vital national interest at stake.
t With the end of the Cold War, the situation in Somalia
t simply does not merit the com­mitment of considerable U.S. military forces. Our national security and our interests in the region are not threatened by Somalia's anarehy. 
2. If force is applied, it must not be piecemeal, and there must be a clear desire to win. 
Clearly the U.S. has already violated this dictum. By pursu­ing gradual escalation, the U.S and UN forces allow Somalia's warlords to dictate the flow of events. The administration is unsure about how much force to commit because it cannot define what "winning" in Somalia entails. 

3. There must be clearly defined political and military 
NRA supporter's comment 'warrants no response' 
Dear Editor: 
Jason Maier's absurd letter concerning gun control (Oct. 5) warrants no response. However, that anyone should subscribe to the views ex­pressed therein is cause for concern. Space is too limited for a comprehensive refutation, but certain matters must be addressed. 
True, guns themselves do not kill people. They do, however, make killing easier. Mr. Maier states that if a criminal wants to kill he will find a way, but how much simpler this is when the criminal posesses an instru­ment whose sole purpose is to facilitate killing? 
The idea of death is inher­ently present in the gun, much more so than in household items or furniture, and this idea can be a motivating force. Besides, how many parents must order their children to hide in bathtubs to avoid being killed by stray folding chairs? 
Mr. Maier invokes the cliche that gun control laws keep law­abiding citizens from defending themselves from armed crimi­nals. But where do these crimi­nals obtain their weapons? 
Most weapons used in crimes are either stolen from legal gun owners or purchased through black market channels which deal either in stolen weapons or those purchased from legal sources. Thus the system which provides law-abiding citizens with guns also arms the law breakers. 
Maier decries waiting periods "despite their apparent logic." The logic here is that waiting periods prevent disgruntled employees or scorned lovers from buying handguns on their way to work, rather than keep­ing law-abiding citizens from their weapons in "emergency situations," as Mr. Maier as­serts. 
'The idea of death is 
inherently present in the gun, much more 
so than in household 
items or furniture, and 
this idea can be a moti­
vating force.' 
It is this self-perpetuating sense of antagonism and para­noia concerning crime which fosters the violent atmosphere with which our cities are plagued. In the end, no gun control measures will prove successful if attitudes such as Mr. Maier's persist. 
PETER BAJZEK 
TIM HEMSTREET 
ADAM LEIGLAND 
Off-Campus 
objectives. 
Originally conceived as a humanitarian relief mission, the effort in Somalia has acquired its own momentum after fulfilling its original goal of "creating order," "preventing a return of starvation, and "establishing authority" are all cited as rationale for a contin-

Democracy threatened in Student Senate 
Dear Editor: 
On Monday, September 27, the Student Senate narrowly passed the election reforms proposed by the Judicial Council. 
Aimed at minimizing ambigu­ity and expediting the appeals process, these "reforms" serve only to infringe upon the rights and duties of the Senate. 
The most contentious propos­al requires the Student Body President, not the Senate as a whole, to decide the worth o an appeal. 
While this may consolidate decisions and Jessen Senate's work load, it jeopardizes the democratic process. 
To abridge the fundamental and necessary right to an appeal is tantamount to President Clinton nullifying the Supreme Court. 
As Boris Yeltsin courageously fights to preserve Russia, The Notre Dame Student Senate chooses to bypass its commit­ment to representative govern­ment. 
ERIN KING South Quad Senator Howard Hall 
failure and change policy in the face of shifting circumstances. 
With American servicemen held captive, the U.S. cannot and should not rapidly disen­gage, but neither should it worry about a loss of credibility or the loss of its world leader­ship should it decide to do so. Hemember that a considerably weakened U.S. did not sacrifice its superpower status in the wake of Vietnam. 
5. There must be public and congressional support for the use of force. 
The original humanitarian mission enjoyed widespread support, but the President has failed to build a consensus for the new, ill defined U.S. pres­ence. This gives the administra­tion's actions an appearance of deception and undermines the morale of U.S. forces in Somalia. 
6. U.S. military forces should be used as a last resort. 
This criteria too has been vio­lated in Somalia. Humanitarian relief efforts, while noble and necessary, should not be placed entirely on the shoulders of the 
U.S. military. U.S. forces were committed to a relief effort fraught with danger. Advertised as a humanitarian mission, the public is rightly puzzled and angered by the cost in human life. 

ued U.S. presence, but these In addition to applying the are essentially politieal prob­above criteria, the Clinton lems for which military force is admi~istration needs to decide ill-suited. now where unilateral United 
4. There must be a continu­States interests and multilateral ous and honest review of the United Nations interests policy. diverge. 
Dogged determination is an admirable leadership quality, DUANE JUNDT but so is the ability to admit History Graduate Student 


Football fans should cheer respectfully for Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: 
The student body is familiar with the popular claim that Notre Dame's football team is "God's team" ... or at least "Mary's team." I want to ex­plore this idea and its possible implications. 
Many claim that this great university is Our Lady's uni­versity, noting that the English translation of its name is "The University of Our Lady (of the Lake)." It is at least true that the founders of our university wanted it to be Mary's univer­sity. What does this mean? Well, that is a difficult question. 
Certainly, though, it seems to mean that Fr. Sorin desired that the Mother of God, by her prayers in heaven, would help protect this university; that this university would always be worthy of having as its name a reference to the Blessed Virgin; that the presence of this uni­versity would always lead peo­ple to a greater devotion to Mary. 
We know that our football coach is a faithful man-he usually goes to Mass several times a week. I do not know how faithful the players are, but I do know that they work very hard to perform well and to develop their God-given tal­ents. What about the student body? 
Having spoken with some of the students, and being aware that the student body is about 85 percent Catholic, I know that many, if not most, often pray while cheering in the sta­dium. 
Without a doubt, however, I know that, when the team's plays don't work out so well, many students orten take the Lord's name in vain. I'm sure that you are all used to hearing things like "God damn-it!, Jesus Christ!," and even, sadly, "Jesus --ing Christ!" 
For those of you who believe in God and want to please Him by obeying His law as taught to us by His Universal Church, please make an effort to stop using such language. For those of you who don't want to be members of Jlis Church, please 
' I know that many, if not most, often pray while cheering in the stadium.' 
be considerate of those who do. 
Our Mother in Heaven is pleased that we are trying to please her. When we cheer for her team, let's cheer as persons who respect her and her Son's name. 
The combination of her inter­cession, a faithful coach, a tal­ented and hard-working team, and a good crowd of students could result in a national cham­pionship! 
DAVID WADE, JR. Grace Hall 






ACC~NT 
Tuesday, Oc;tober 12, 1993 
page 11 

~To nurture and nourish, Medical 
Campus Ministry promotes faith development 
By TONY POTTINGER Accent Writer 
Religious Education. The Folk Choir. Notre Dame Encounter. Marriage Preparation. Communities ND. 
These are just a handful of the variety of programs and services offered by the Notre Dame Campus Ministry. Campus Ministry is described by assistant director Priscilla Wong as "a vehicle in providing an environment to nurture and nourish the faith life of the campus, whatever that faith may be." 
Encompassing a dozen offices across campus, Campus Ministry offers services with such diverse programs as retreats, prayer groups, chap­lain services. and daily liturgies 
'we seek to play a pro-active role in the student's life.' 
Priscilla Wong 

at the Sacred Heart Bascilica and thirty other chapels. "We emphasize the faith develop­ment process," said Wong. "We seek to play a pro-active role in the student's lfe." Campus Ministry even mails out lists of local Protestant, Jewish, and Muslim churches, temples, and mosques where students of those faiths may worship. Transportation is available for those who request it. 
Nowhere is the program's efforts more apparent than in the religous services offered to students on a daily basis. The Bascilica staff coordinates all liturgical and worship celebra­tions. 
Extracurricular groups such as The Women's Choir and the Notre Dame Folk Choir, along with several other student groups, provide the musical dimension to the Masses and Vesper services held each weekend. 
Sophomore Chad Smock said, "Folk Choir is the most impor­tant activity I am involved with because I am singing for the Lord with people who are very special to me." At the same time, Smock, who is not Catholic, finds the programs of Campus Ministry conducive to his spiritual life. "I feel the Lord's presence as strongly here as I do at home at my own church," he said. 
One of the most popular pro­grams in Campus Ministry is the Notre Dame Encounter (NDE), a three-day retreat held five times per year at the Fatima Retreat Center. Applications for the retreat consistently surpass available spaces. 
Father Thomas Gaughan, Director of Retreats and NDE said that the limited number of participants maintains the uniqueness of the program. At the same time, especially in the fall, we have only a limited number of dates because of football weekends, fall break, Thanksgiving, and finals." 
Instituted in 1986 after Campus Ministry staff attended a similar program at the University of Virginia, the Encounter features spiritual talks by a team of students, faculty, and staff. Two boards, one for orgamzmg the Encounter and the other for the follow-up Fourth Day Program, are made up of stu­dents as well. "It's not your typical retreat where priests and adult laypersons do every­thing. Peer ministry is key," said Gaughan. 
"NDE is an experience which can have a significant impact in your four years here if you participate in the follow-up opportunities," says sophomore David Horan, who attended an NDE his freshman year. 
At this time St. Joseph Hall is being converted for use by the Bascilica offices and for use as retreat space. In addition to NDE, day retreats, Social Concerns Retreats, an Interfaith Retreat, and the Senior Retreats are also span-sored by Campus Ministry. 
"The retreat program is one 
in which many students of all faiths participate. It has a broad Christian-life focus," said Gaughan. 
Father Gaughan also serves in the capacity of a 
University chaplain, a vital role in the Campus Ministry program. 
Offering pastoral counseling to student organizations and individual students. Campus Ministry reaches out to the playing fields and arenas of varsity ath­letics. Having served as chaplain for the men's basketball team, Gaughan sees the role of chaplain service to athletes as "an important com­ponent. Religion is so closely quartered 

-
with everyday student life that such service is spiritually con­sistent." 
Faculty and graduate stu­dents. historically less easy to reach by Campus Ministry because of busy schedules and off-campus residence, have seen recently expanded pro­grams directed towards their needs. Faculty reflection 
'The retreat program 
is one in which many students of all faiths participate. It has a broad, Christian-life focus. 
Father Gaughan 
groups meet monthly to discuss scripture. The Graduate Student Union has joined forces with faculty groups in a serious of ecumenical pro­grams. 
In conjunction with the Center for Social Concerns, Campus Ministry sponsors din­ner gatherings for faculty where they may discuss the relationship between their pro­fessional and faith lives. "A Quiet Place" is a special apart­ment in Fischer Graduate Residences available for use by faculty for solitude and person­al retreats. 
For students or faculty con­
.~ 
\ 

sidering the Sacrament of Matrimony, the Bascilica offers preparation programs such as Sacramental Marriage Preparation and the Host Couple Program, which pairs engaged couples with married couples in a series of discus­sions and meetings. Meanwhile, Marriage Enrichment presents speakers chosen to conduct presenta­tions about the ups and downs of married life. 
Through the Office of Religious Education, Campus Ministry reaches out to stu­dents who are interested in becoming Catholic. Confirmation Preparation pro­grams are offered as well. Communties ND has taken off as a popular program for stu­dents to meet regularly to dis­cuss the Gospels and its role in their faith lives. 
It links Scripture study, prayer, and community service in developing a strong Christian identity. Wong said Communities ND seeks to "empower students about their Christian faith." 
Stanford Hall resident Jeff Dix describes Communities ND as "a place where I can see a p~actical application of my faith." 
Says Katherine Barrett, director of Religious Education, "Campus ministry is about inte­grating students' faith into their everyday lives-especial­ly as they are reaching a turn­ing point in their lives." 


By!tX~J. GRABOW ·••····· N.R.E.M.T. 
lnfluenz.a•. popularly known. as tb~ f}u~Hs a viral infection p th~ re · tory tract ~pread 
~br(?:ug . ... ··· .·.··· finfected dtop~
coughelf·•(ir sneezed int~) the air.• The ~lassie symptoms u. the flu ~nclude chills.--dry ough. fever, headache. mus­cular aches. loss of appetit~~ and fatigj.le. . ...· . .· ···•· 
Pl'ev (\f$e flu inelu~s some .~l!me pra:et~ees thatFt ...... .. susceptibiUty tQ ...... ~o~~~: w ing ·hands··fr~~· quently, nqt rubbing the eyes or nose(primary entry sites for flu virtlses). and avoidtng direct contact with those inteete ··· · tl\e .flu. Unlike cQld,s •• there are vac~ t{ · tQ help bQl~r one s syste~ agi!(t:Ost the flu..••.• ..,i . ..... 
Each year the Center for Disease CQntrol 'determines the strains uenza virus e~~ pected :most prevalent in the c.o . winter. Once these stra.i.llS ~tt!J'llliued...a vac~ cine of .·.·.•.·.. d~ flu virus iS 'c~~ 
ated, UpQn .. injeetion into tbe body.the·flu·vaccine. causes the immune system to become "sensitize~" to the particpl~r straius or flu present 
hi ··tJi~· 
J~e patient is. 
l;r the 

pres(:)nt 
immune sy.

quickly produces. antibodies·to 
destroy the virus~ 
vaccina.ted.patient is protected 
se pro~· :tJte ,J.~r

in <'UlS$ ·ell as th o~ graphi~ rstty ofthe stu ent body. all students are at an especially high risk for becom­ing infected with the flu. The Center for Disease Control has repqrted tha~ ·the flu season may b(:) . ·.·severe this vvill_~ te); an.d gin even earlier {Nov(:lmlj than normaL ..• 
During this week. free flu shots are being provided to.an students, faculty. staff, and re­tirees of the University. Shgts will b dministered ;IC)n Tt~esda Wednesday 9t30 .· ..·.. Opm , and Thurs~f!; ..... £rom 12nootl the
In 

Concourse and in the 
O'Hara Lounge<iJ;J, LaFortune Studen Center, ANotre Dame identiti~ cation card must be presented and patll}nt~ need to w shortslee:y~d shirts or to order~ r~ceive an injection: 
According to Head Nurse Rita Rossigno from University Health Services, "You can'tget the flu by getting a flu shot!" The most ftequent complaint about the vaccination is sore­nessin th~.site of injection fqr up to tW9 days. Very infre­quently one may experience flu-like symptoms 6-12 hours after receiving the shot, how~ ever, the Center for Disease Controlreports that "less than 113 of all v4ccines experience f)u-U~e syn)pto:ms." Everyone should receive the vaccine un­less they fall into one of three categories: 1 ) Allergic to eggs 
2) Have a fever 3) Pregnant. 
You can beat the flu season this year,. Wash your hands freque11tlYi don't rub your ey~s or po~e (prinlary el1try s~t~ {Qr
nu viruses), and avoid direct contact with those infected with the flu. 

------~------------------------------------~--------~­

ACCENT
page 12 Tuesday, October 12, 1993 


Creating a sense of community 
Old College becomes a place to live, pray 
By STEPHANIE SCHEID image that goes along with Old Accent Writer College that needs to be upheld," he continued. 
Commonly referred to as the Parietals are now the same in cradle of the University, the Old Old College as every other College embodies the very dorm on campus. The alcohol essence of the spirit and tradi­policy is a current subject of tion of Notre Dame. This year debate. marks the 150th birthday of the Underlying the Old College three story brick building undergraduate program is the tucked behind the Architecture philosophy that it is most school, on a hill overlooking the beneficial for these young men lakes. to be exposed to the average 
Erected in 1843, by Father undergrad experience, while at Sorin, with bricks made of mud the same time they are being from the lake, the Old College prepared for a life of brother­was originally intended to be a hood. community house, It evolved "Most religious communities into the headquarters of the do not have a college Holy Cross Brothers, and since undergraduate program-we 1954, the Old College has continue to be the exception," served as an integral part of said Father John Conley. "We seminary formation. want them to be college stu­
The Old College houses fresh­dents, serve, live the common men, sophomores, and juniors, life and be intent upon deepen­while the program's seniors ing their own understanding of move on to Moreau Seminary. faith, vocation, and what it Participants must undergo an means to live a religious life," application process and those he said. accepted display "a serious interest in exploring the possi­As a result of this philosophy, bility of becoming a Holy Cross the residents are strongly en­priest or Brother" said Father couraged to become involved in John Conley, director of Holy the community. Each individ­Cross Vocations. ual is regularly required to 
All residents are on full schol­complete a community service arships which are paid for by which meets the approval of Notre Dame and Holy Cross Moss. These services range equally. The participants are from tutoring, to playing guitar responsible for their own room for other dorms' masses to and board. cooking at the Center for the 
The prevailing characteristic Homeless. of the Old College is the sense Several students play on ath­of community. Every Tuesday letic teams for other dorms, is community night at the Old and sophomore Brad Metz is College, in which the residents even a member of the Irish take turns making dinner and Guard. are encouraged to invite guests. At the same time; however, Dinner is usually followed by a their unique experience and meeting or a speaker who living arrangements render the relates to the formation. participants a bit isolated from 
"We're like a family," said the larger Notre Dame student Alex Castelazo, a freshman body. "You really have to make from Tempe, Arizona. an effort to get involved," said "Community is very important Castelazo. for purposes of the brother­The extent of the differences By THOMAS KANE the learning process is accom­Thursday. These meetings pro­hood," said Castelazo. between the Old College and Accent Writer plished in the Peace House vide a forum in which residents Thursdays the candidates the mainstream undergraduate
where students put their can talk about anything from 
participate in community nights If keeping peace between two axioms into action. personal issues such as the at Moreau Seminary. 
middle eastern countries such "Living in this house breaks highs and lows of being a grad­"The Old College introduces 
' support here is just

as Palestine and Israel doesn't down the walls. It helps you to uate student to national issues, you to much more than just the 
seem challenging enough, try apply what you learned," said according to Shabodien. community here; it also ties incredible. putting thirteen people from Li Rui, 23, who holds a B.A. Meals are also a time to get you into the larger Holy Cross Everybody has their own around the world in one resi­degree from Xidian University together. The students rotate 
community," said freshman 
dence hall. in China. cooking chores on some week gifts and talents.' 
Thomas Curry. 
"Its a challenge," said Fatima The students are forced to nights, each preparing dishes The Old College hall staff is Shabodien, graduate student in apply the knowledge to domes­representative of the food composed of Rector Father Rob Thomas Curry the University's International tic situations such as deciding served in their home countries. 
Moss, Sister Patricia Clark and Peace Studies masters pro­who will get to use the shower Some students must make Resident Assistant Jim Foster, a gram, "but we gain a lot in first. or who will get to make a "substitutions" to the recipe 
ninth year graduate student 
understanding," phone call next. owing to the limited spices and M.D. All these staff mem­
Shabodien, who hails from "You have to be sensitive to available at American super­bers are supportive, approach­Cape Town South Africa, is one peoples' backgrounds and markets Mayinja said. 
able and an integral part of the experience may best be demon­of thirteen students living in the whe.r_.e they came from," said So that the students have Old College family, according to strated by their daily routines. 
University's "Peace House" as a Shabodien. "Understanding an time for "just hanging out," the students. Every morning at 7:10, theypartial requirement for a mas­individual's ideology can have they are prohibited from hold­"roll out of bed, say prayer, and ters degree in International an effect on how theyTeact to a ing jobs. This is made possible 
In fact, when students are roll right back in," said 
I 
Peace Studies. There is a sepa­possible conflict situation." by the scholarship that each going back tQ their dorms, "we Castelazo. They also have a rate Peace Studies program While fluency in English is a student receives, which covers 
say we're going home," said daily evening prayer in the 
which enrolls another twelve prerequisite for admission into tution, room and board, as well Curry. "Support here is just building's chapel, as well as
, graduate students that are not the residential program, the as a monthly stipend, according incredible," he continued, Mass four days per week in the, required to live together. dialogue between students to Shabodien. "everybody has their own gifts nearby log chapel said by Moss.
, The students are chosen often still contains much of the While living in close quarters and talents... it's a really good The eleven undergraduatesannually from an applicant pool flavor of their native country. with foreigners can bring diffi­
melting pot." of this year is the largest num­
from around the globe, holding Juliet Mayinja, from culties, most students feel the The rules which govern the ber in several years, and every­
I 
~ a spectrum of undergraduate Uganda, said the residential positive results outweighs the Old College have in the past one involved with the program,degrees-everything from program is beneficial in the fact negative. 
been fairly relaxed. Students students and faculty alike,
English to engineering. To that it "builds a sense of com­"We fight a lot. ..Sometimes were allowed to have alcohol in beam with enthusiasm, enu­ensure diversity, a maximum of munity." This is expecially we don't call this 'Peace the building and there were no merating the beneficial results two students are admitted from important for students who are House'. However it's an inten­parietals. However. a recent it has produced. 
,• any one country . thousands of miles from home, tional community. We all come change in staff has been Though the students carry an trying to balance relationships with the intention to build com­
accompanied by a change of "Old College is a dynamic 
average of 13.5 credit hours in with a demanding courseload, munity. Even if we shout we 
rules. environment which doesn't
,' courses ranging from Conflict according to Mayinja. are interested in peace for 
"Father Moss wants to stay as have the stresses of religiousManagement to Organizational Community is strengthened today and tommorrow," close to Du Lac as possible," life, but only the joys of it," said 
t Development, a large part of by "housemeetings" held each Shadodien said. said Castelazo. "There's an Curry. 
! 


Tuesday, October 12, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Perles goes against rules and savors victory over Michigan 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD 
Associated Press 
EAST lANSING, Mich. 

It didn't take too much arm twisting for Coach George Perles to admit Monday that Michigan State's 17-7 victory over Michigan went beyond a couple of his most cherished rules. 
One was the edict of: They all count one. The second was the 24-hour rule. That requires the celebration for each victory, as well as the mourning for each 
loss, to be done within 24 hours. 
"It counted one, but it felt so good. The guys, it gives them some confidence. Michigan is a good football team," Perles said at his weekly media briefing. 
And he said savoring the vic­tory over the then-No. 9 Wolverines would stretch until lunch for his team, although the Spartan fans probably would enjoy it up until the kickoff for next year's game. 
"Michigan is an interesting state. We're (the schools) 60 miles apart and someone's al­ways ribbing somebody in this state," he said. 
''I'm sure there are a lot of Spartans out there today having a good time, wearing green. I told everybody on my TV show to wear green, but I've got blue on, because I wore blue last week. 
''I'm not superstitious, but just in case, I don't want to screw it up." 
The Spartans pushed their record to 3-1 overall and 1-0 in the Big Ten with the victory. That's their best start since 1979 and also got them the No. 25 spot in The Associated Press Top 25, their first national ranking in three years. 

Michigan fell to 3-2 and 1-1 and dropped from ninth to No. 18 in the AP Top 25. It was also the first Big Ten loss for Michigan in 23 games. 
"We played a good game of­fensively, but really the thing that won the game for us was the outstanding play on de­fense," Perles said. 
"The kids played hard and with entbusiasm and when we did have a mistake. they made up for it because of hustle and enthusiasm. 
"You saw the enthusiasm the whole game. You can't put a price on that. I don't know what it's worth, but it seems like a lot of enthusiastic teams win." 
Perles said the credit for that enthusiasm goes to the players, not him. 
"I can give 'em some things that motivate them for one play. but when it lasts,· it comes from within. There's nothing I can say that can keep that go­ing that long," he said. 
The Observer acceJfllo classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. 10 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College: 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Typing 287·4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259·8684. 
SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS COME CELEBRATE COLUMBUS DAY WITH CHILDREN FROM EL CAMPITO. MEET TODAY AT 2:45 AT MAIN CIRCLE. 
Need Business Cards? -call Adworks 1·6756 LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY! I 
Anybody interested in doing flood damage relief in Davenport, Iowa (Quad Cities area) over Fall Break call Frank at 277-9353. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST ND class ring with full name on it lost 9/25 Purdue weekend in SOAIN 1ST floor or basement REWARD $$150 $100 if you know of whereabouts-no names or questions asked PLEASE call Ryan at 634-2290 or room 105, 103 SORIN THANK YOU 
LOST: blue London Fog jacket with liner, around Oct. 1. Call Eric at 3376. 
FOUND: MULTI-STRAND BLUE BEADED FISHHOOK EARRING AROUND THE LAKES. CALL ANNE 284-5212. 
LOST: AT SENIOR BAA ROYAL BLUE NAUTICA JACKET IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 273-5910 
L.....-_w;_J\N_T_E_D_ ____.I 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -Eam up to $2000+/month +world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$ BRUNO'S NEEDS Driversll!! PT for Campus Deliveries. Call John 288-3320 $$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$ 
$700/wk cannery workers; $4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish· ing industry now hiring for nexl sum· mer. 11,000 openings. No exp. nec­essary. Free rm. & bd. These jobs go fast! Employment Alaska. 1·206­323-2672 
Need a quiet place to study? We need babysillers for some evenings and weekends for our 4 yr old. We have a quiet apartment at Castle Point. Call 273-2528 LM. 
WANTED: LOCAL REALTOR SEEKING HOSTESSES TO HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES. FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2·4 HOURS PEA DAY, VARIOUS DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE REALTY 282-2351. 9·5 MON-FAI 
I need a ride to the Wash D.C. area for fall break. Will help with gas, tolls, etc. Call Christine x4867 
I need a ride to & from DC for break. Call1293. 
THE SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOL CORPORATION IS IN NEED OF GOOD SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS AT ALL LEVELS. APPLICANTS MUST HAVE COM­PLETED 60 CREDIT HOURS. JNDI· VI DUALS INTERESTED SHOULD APPLY BETWEEN 8:30 AM & 4:30 PM MON.-FRI. AT THE: 
EDUCATION CENTER 
HUMAN RESOURCE DEPT. 
1ST FLOOR 635 SO. MAIN ST. SOUTH BEND. FOR MORE INFO., CALL (219) 282-4160. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929· 4398 ext 31 
FREE TRIPS & CASHJ Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL NOWJ TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
2 PWites are looking for a ride to the DC area for fall break. We have gas $, toll $ and charming personal­ities x2147 
I need a ride to St. Louis for fall 
break after the USC game. I will 
help pay gas and tolls. Please call 
Tim at 4-1462 

Do You live near Georgetown or 
D.C.???? I need a ride for fall 
break-there and back. very friend­
ly; like to drive; help with gas, 
tolls,etc. call Brian x3043 
Needed: up to 3 USC GA's. 284­
f'''" FOR RENT 
· 

BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­
ND/SMC EVENTS 
(219) 291-7153 

Bed & Breakfast • Riverfront ­
Private. 
257-9101 

LARGE 6 BDAM HOME. FURN. SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO CAMPUS. 1 BDAM NEAR CAM· PUS $225. M0.272·6306 
ROOMS FOR RENT, FUAN,NEAA CAMPUS.AVAJL NOW.272-6306 
Seeking rommate to share house. 
$250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
Fem. r-mate needed IMMEDIATE­LY Gina 4-2372 
FOR SALE 
8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE 
Orange County to Chicago 10/21 
Chicago to Orange County 10/24 
Only $333/each round trip 
Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643 
x1515 all hours 

Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/ Kitchen $1491 1·800-678-6386 SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS SELLING RAFFLE TJX FOR A CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO NO VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT 284-5062 
One way Air to Atlanta. Leaves 
S. Bend on Oct 25. $98. Could negotiate car ride back to ND on 31st. Leave message 287-6850. 
TICKETS 

I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272-6306 
FSU TIX NEEDED!!!!!!!! 
CALL CRAIG @273-3942 
PLEASE!! 
Alumni needs 3 tickets for USC game will pay $ Call Skip collect @ (602) 998-7576 
NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 
Need 2·4 FSU Heather 284-5261 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479· 1429 
I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General 
Adm. only. 
Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653·7162, 
(W) 201-992-8700 
Need 2 GAs for any home game 
Call Tim at 273-1757 
NEED FSU·ND TIX 214/991-0889 
(MARK) 
NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S. 
MUST HAVE!I CALL 272-7233. 
FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES. 
277·1659. 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC & FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL· LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221· 6183. 
We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO) 457­0486. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 
3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420· 
9309 
Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers. 
Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta 
(404)396-8715. 
I NEED TJXS FOR PITT, USC AND BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEY!!! CALL AARON @ 271-2908 
Need 2 USC GA's 
Will pay $100 ea 
x1868 
FLA ST STU. TIX FOR SALE! 
SERIOUS $$$$ ONLY 
CALL CHARLES AT x1055 
TRADE TICKETS: 
4 BYU FOR 4 USC. 
CALL BOB (818) 793-9254. 
DESPEAATEL Y NEED ND-USC 
GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT 
287-4561 AFTER 6 PM. 
92 ALUM DESPEAATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. 800-222-5546 exl. 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1·800-7 49·5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2 FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616. 
PLEASE!!! I NEED FSU STU TJX. THERESA X2756 
Need 2 USC GA Maxx1088 
Need 4 USC GA's Call Jeff x2000 
NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DESI 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097 
Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC Call232-7316 from 7-8 pm. 
2 NOTRE DAME VS. BYU FOOT­BALL TICKETS FOR SALE BEST OFFER. 
On 15 yard line, row 15. Call Dave in Utah at 801-373-2931 after 8pm EST. 
4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC 2 FSU GAs x1850 
WANTED: 3 USC GA'S 
CALL LIZ X1912 
I NEED FLORIDA ST. TIX STUDSorGA­call Tim x1230 
Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks Mall 232-3870 
WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL 412-352-3216 

Desperate lifelong ND fan needs two Florida State/NO GA's. Will pay top dollar! Call1-407-788-1582 after 5pm. 
Please help mel 
Need 1 Florida State student ticket. 
Call Colleen at 273-5901. 
NEED 4 USC GA'S 
CALL DAN x3402 
For Sale: 4 Tickets for the BYU v. 
Notre Dame game. Tickets are 
together, 4th row, approx. 25 yard 
line. Will take best offer as of 
10/13/93. Call (801 )379-3051 
NEED 6 GAs to ND vs. USC PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP! 
2 Notre Dame-BYU tickets 4 sell 40 yrd line call Lance @ (801 )375­9264 6·7:30am or 6-11 pm MST 
(C(C(CCCCCCC(CCCCC(COOOOOO)))UUU)U)))))))) 
I, like everyone else in the world, 
need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­
perate than all of them, though. 
Please call me-Diane x4253. 
I need 4 USC GAs. Can pay big 
$$$. call JP x4-3073. 
I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's 
call Beth@ X2615 
Seeking 1 ND vs. USC G.A. If you know of one please call Jocelyn x3842, thanks. 
WILL TRADE 3 USC GA'S + PRE­
PAID HOTEL ROOM 2 NIGHT 
FOR 2 FLA ST GA'S 
CALL (618)2774481 DAYS 
(618)6327571 NIGHTS 

PLEASE!! NEED 2 USC ST. TJKS FOR BEST FRIENDS FROM HOME. 
EMILY x2337 

'86 Alum who endured futility with Faust is hoping to reach the heights with Holtz. Wants USC, FSU, and BC TIX. Please call Connie at 1· 7336 or Connie/Dan at 219-874­4240. 
Need 2 USC GA's call Brian x3467 orx0577 
Need GA's for USC call Gary x1236. 
4SALE4SALE4SALE4SALE 

2 GA's for USC and FSU, BC best offer: 277·8017 
usc • usc • usc • usc 
CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the two lovely people who spawned me. Any home game. Will pay resonable price. Heck, I'd even draw somethin' for ya. Call Jay at 271-1 400 between 6-10 pm any night. 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's CALL JAMIE @273 -5910 
Stud booklet 4 Sale 
Ech 272-1451 
call btw. 4-10 p.m. 

HAVE: 8 USC GA-4 are on 50. 
Also, 2 BC GA on 50. 

NEED: FSU GA's. Trade or Cash. 
-Dan 273-0986 

Football Tickets Notre Dame vs. BYU $125-$250 call Steve 801·378­4373 or David 801·374-8939 
TICKETS NO VS BYU 4-SALE 801­375-5640 
ND ALUM needs several USC GAs. Please call (313)953·5572 after 7pm. 
FOR SALE • 3 Notre Dame vs. BYU tickets. $200 each or best offer. (801 )371-5532. 
8 BYU TIX 50yd Row 14$500 Each OBO 8013739958 
I NEED 1 USC GA NICK x1777 
Desperate alum in DC need Fla 
State football tickets! Will pay big 
bucks. Call Tom collect after 8PM 
703·768-8569 
For Salei!!JJ!! 
USC Student ticket for sale 
Will Deal 
Call Brian x3043 

PERSONAL 
***NEW*** NEW*** NEW*** 
COLOR COPIES & 

TRANSPARENCIES at 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
in the LaFortune Student Center 
SophomoresI!I 

Consider a life of patient love from 
Mom, financial security from Dad, 
laughter and music in a country 
home for your baby. Please call 
Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 
anytime. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Loving Indiana medical profession­als eager to adopt newborn. Medical/Legal paid. Confidential. Call our home toll free to hear all about us. Jaci and John 1-80()..224· 2429. 
SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your high school over break as SMC rep? Sign up-Admission Office. Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21 
5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge. 
SENJORSIIJJ 
CELEBRATE COLUMBUS DAY WITH THE KIDS AT EL CAMPITO 
DAY CARE. TUES. OCT. 12­
MEET AT MAIN CIRCLE AT 2:45 
The SUPEABOWL of employer pre­sentations! Info on a career in Client Services with Leo Burnell. TONIGHT, 7 p.m. University Club All Majors Welcomel! 
Chosen a major yet? 
If you are a sophomore, you should consider it. Being declared gives you a DART time advantage. If you know what you want to declare, do it. If not, watch for further info on major counseling sessions spon­sored by Sophomore Class Council. 
3SWF(2 sr, 1 jr) looking for SYR dates for Sat, Oct 16; prefer 4 friends-no pressure; if you're daring enough to answer this ad yet nor· mal enough to hesitate, you're the dates we're looking for. Call our agent Beth @ x1810 by Thurs. Oct 14. 
Taylor-Thanks for having Kevin at 
your place this week-end ..you're a 
life saver! Love, Jamie 
thank you Mary, St. Jude and Holy 
Spirit for favors granted 
BOB and KEVIN: 
J'aime Je souvenir de Ia joumee 
nue....Com dog, anyone? 
-Jennifer and Eileen 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­place in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369· 2597 
HELP! I need a ride to D.C. for fall 
break. I shower regularly and am a 
decent conversationalist. If you can 
help, please call Ken at x4245 
MEG­
HAPPY BIG 21 Ill 
Maybe Nigel will sweat on you 
tonite. 
(I'd love to torment him on the 
roof of MY car.) 
3 words: It's illegal manll 
Happy birthday again! 
Love, 
AK 
Hey Wings, what did you have to eat today? Not much. A couple of Hovis sand­wiches and a bite of Trish's muffin. 

page 14 Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
Final Gold games to be played this Wednesday 
By SCOTf CLEMENTE 
Sports Writer 
The final round of Women's Gold League lnterhall football takes place Wednesday night with games starting at 7, 8 and 9p.m. 
In the first game, Walsh will take on Pangborn and in the process try to avoid being the second upset victim of the Phoxes. 
Walsh is coming off a 12-6 victory over Lyons. Junior run­ning back Meg Allen led the way for Walsh, scoring twice during the game. 
Last week Pangborn defeated Breen-Phillips for the first win in the history of the hall. The 6­0 victory improved the team's record to 1-3. 
The Phoxes are looking to take the momentum of their win last week into the game against Walsh. Running back 
M.T. Kraft, who scored the win­ning touchdown against Breen­Phillips, feels the team should do well against Walsh. "Last week was a turning point for our team," said Kraft. "If we play as well as we did against B.P., I'm sure that we have a very good chance at winning." 
Lyons vs. Howard 

In the second game, Lyons will take on Howard as both teams try to recover from loss­es last Thursday night. No. 7 Lyons lost 12-6 to Walsh while No. 3 Howard fell victim to Badin 13-6. 
A win is important to both teams as the playoffs approach. Howard quarterback Sue Wassil thinks her team is up to the task. "We had a pretty good practice Sunday." stated th.e junior. "We are going to go out and do what we do best. Hopefully it will be enough for a victory." 
Breen-Phillips vs. Badin 
In the final game No. 2 Badin and No. 11 Breen-Phillips face off as Badin looks to regain the No. 1 spot in the power poll. Badin is coming off a 13-6 vic­tory over Howard last Thursday night. They will be looking to get their fourth win of the season against a B.P. team that is coming off a tough loss to Pangborn. 
The loss dropped the Blitz's ranking three spots in the power polls while their record fell to 1-3. 
In order to win B.P. must slow down Badin's offense and at the same time put points on the board. This could prove to be the biggest obstacle for the Blitz, as they have been able to manage only one touchdown in the past two games. 

bered Saturday when fifth­ranked Ohio State hosts No.25 Michigan Sta.te. 
After talking about Rex Kern, Jack Tatum, Jim Stillwagon and other members of the Big Ten's last No.1 team, Bruce noticed Cooper approaching and rose to shake the band of his succes· sor. 
"Congratulations,'' Bruce said to Cooper, who succeeded him after a messy firing in 1987. "No matter what they say 
The hio State coach from ... a win's a win. Any time you 979-87 met with several go over to Illinois and get a 20­orts writers regarding Ohio 12 win, take it." 's 1968 national champi-Cooper, an assistant at team, of which he was Kansas in 1968, said he had 
assistant coach under the vivid recollections of Ohio Woody Hayes. The 25th State's national championship versary of that champi· in '68. And went on to say he 
season will be -doesn't mind comparisons 
year gap 
between that team and the lat­est edition of the Buckeyes. Bruce, more than anyon 
else, can appreciate the pres­sures on Cooper as he holds the reins on a 5-0 team that i steadily climbing up the na­tional charts. Even after a nar­row victory over Saturday, Cooper's play and conservative offense called into question. 
After taking a 1 7-3 lead in the second quarter, Ohio State threw only three more u11:s:s~:s' the rest of the game. They also survived a 33-yard go-ahead touchdown pass that was disal­lowed by a penalty, and a final­minute pass into the Ohio State end zone that was intercepted by Tim Walton. 

Toke o first Aid doss with the American Red Cross. We'll teach you what you need to know to save someone you love.. .from choking, bleeding or dozens of other life threatening emergencies. Coli your chapter of the American Red Cross today. And know it all. 
American+ 
Red Cross 
AMERICAN RED CROSS CAMPAIGN 
•

NEWSPAPER AD NO. ARC-86·1078-2 COL 
IT'S BACK! Beat The Clock Tuesday! 5:00p.m. ~ 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! Free Deliver • 271;1177  
She's Back ... By Popular Demand! Ellen Gootblatt Bring your relationship questions/ concerns to: 11Meeting, Dating, Relating, and Mating" Tuesday, October 12 Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 7:30p.m. Admission: $1.00  


!, 
~
, 
, ~
, 
, 
• 
, ~ 
,
,
, 
Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
1015 TEAM REC. 9/28 
1. Pasquerilla West 4-1 1 2. Badin 3-1 5 3. Howard 3-1 2 4. Pasquerilla East 3-2 6 5. Lewis 3-2 4 6. Walsh 2-2 7 7. Lyons 2-2 3 8. Farley 3-2 8 9. Siegfried 2-3 10 10. Pangborn 1-3 12 
11 . Breen Philips 1-3 8 12. Knott 0-5 11 
GOLD DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
Badin P. West Howard Lewis Lyons Farley Walsh P. East

ObsEorver/:Sean Earnan 
Breen-Ph. SiegfriedNo. 1 P.W. demonstrated that they deserve thier ranking after a tough Pangborn Knott 13-8 victory over Seigfried last weekend. 

Kim Gold, junior receiver. Gold caught four TD passes in Lewis' 18-0 weekend victory, and she received two 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications 
more TD passes against P.E. in a 13-121oss.

for the following paid position: 
-------·----.,..--.--­
Farley shoots for playoffs after 6-0 shutout of Knott 
~ -----~-­
page 15 

By KELLY CORNELIS 
Sports Writer 

Farley came into Sunday's game against Knott with playoff visions in the back of .their minds, but they kept their heads in the game long enough to hold off the Angels, 6-0. 
The only scoring of the game occurred in the first half on a quarterback sneak from the one-yard line by Farley's Tiernee Lucke. 
Farley had not trouble neu­trilizing Knott quarter_back Karen Wallace who cami{into the game as one of the league's top passers. 
"Knott was a very strong opponent, we just happened to come out on top today," said sophomore Melissa Mapes. "I have to give Knott a lot of credit for giving us a close game." 
With the vistory, Farley improves to 3-2 and earns a playoff berth. After dropping their first two games, Farley's playoff chances looked slim, but they did not let the slow start keep them down. 
"We're very proud of the girls' perseverence," said offensive coach Dan Hilton. 
"Now we are ready to avenge our losses in the playoffs," added Mapes. 
Knott was disappointed with the loss, but pleased with their 
MiiJi~i;NMN~~oftverall nerformance.
Graduate Page Editor 
A Notre Dame graduate student interested in editing a page focusing on graduate issues and events 
If interested, please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by Wednesday, Oct. 13. Call631-4542 if you have questions about the position. 
"We've improved a lot over the season," reflected freshman Kelly Koski. "We've really come together. this last week, and even though we didn't win, we had a lot of fun." 
P.E. 13, Lewis 12 

After being toppled by Siegfried last week, Pasquerilla East rebounded to knock off Blue division co-leader Lewis, 13-12. 
It took the Pyros less than a minute to penetrate the Lewis defense, which had allowed only six points all season before meeting P.E. Running back Alison Kossler scurried into the endzone from ten yards out, and added the extra point to put P.E. up 7-0. 
Lewis then came out strong to open the second half, but a twenty-yard touchdown run by senior Joanne Petro was called back due to a penalty. 
P.E. then took possession, and on the next play Kossler ran 80 yards to increase the Pyros' lead to 13-0. 
Lewis responded sdJunior Kim Gold caught two touch­down passes from freshman quarterback Marybeth Failla to bring Lewis within one, 13-12. Lewis opted to try for a two point conversion following the second touchdown, but failed. 
Lewis had one more chance to score, but an interception by 
P.E. sophomore Carrie Eglinton halted the drive. 
With the upset, P.E. moves into playoff position with a 3-2 record. Although Lewis was stunned by the defeat, their 3-2 record keeps them in the play­offs as well. 
"Our offense played really 
see REVIEW/ page 18 

All Students Interested in Law School Information Are Invited to Attend LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN Wednesday, October 13 10:00 a.Dl. -­2:00 p.Dl. Center for Continuing Education (CCE) Representatives From 55 Law Schools Nationwide Application Information/Literature from 68 Schools Co-sponsored by Career and Placement Services and Pre-Law Society  

---~----------··--~-----­ -­ --.----­( ''  
The Observer • SPORTS  Tuesday, October 12, 1993  

Keenan tops Stanford despite injuries 

By G.R. Nelson Sports Writer 
In a thrilling football game, Keenan (2-0) snatched a 14-12 victory away from Stanford (1­1-1) in the waning moments. 
Jim Walsh-playing with a twisted ankle, pulled groin, and a hip pointer-out ran the Stanford defense to the corner on fourth and goal from the one with under two minutes remaining. 
Stanford controlled the first half and took a 6-0 lead into halftime on a Lamar Guillory off-tackle touchdown run. 
Keenan made some adjust­ments and surprised the Stanford defense on their first second half possession. Rob Rolf, Keenan's tight end, caught a short pass and turned it into six points by out running the Stanford secondary. 
Stanford marched down the field on its next possession, beautifully mixing the run and 

V-Ball 
continued from page 20 
pass. Chris Pollina capped the drive with a 43-yard touch­down run. 
After Stanford's Tonie Barth tipped a Keenan pass and Chad Smock intercepted it, Stanford seemingly had the game won. Stanford lost significant yardage on its next three plays and was forced to punt. Stanford planned to take a safety, but the long snap was errant, and Keenan's Rob Rolf recovered on the Stanford two. 
"We played well, except for one or two plays," said a dis­traught Chris Pollina after the game. Keenan got the break and took advantage of it. 
Off-Campus 8, Grace 6 
Off-Campus defeated Grace in a game where both teams were searching for their first victory. 
Off-Campus scored its touch­down on a 13-yard corner pass from quarterback Mike Myers to fullback Matt Carr. On the two point conversion attempt, Carr scored on a double reverse. "I just barely got the ball over the plane (of the goal line)," said Carr. 
Grace (0-3) immediately bounced back and drove the length of the field for a score late in the second quarter. Eric Hillegas tossed a five yard fade pass to receiver John Pohl to pull Grace within two. Unfortunately for Grace, this was as close as they would come. 
Morrissey 6, Planner 0 
Morrissey's dominating defense posted its third shutout in as many tries in their victory over Flanner (0-2-1 ). 
Flanner's captain had nothing but compliments for Morrissey's defense. "Morrissey stifled our offense," said Brian Parker. 
Flanner stayed close thanks to the work of J.P. Fenningham and other members of its defense. Fenningham broke up several passes and had an interception. 

starting to become a little stale," noted Brown. "Hopefully we'll be sharper af­ter the rest." 
Having struggled in beating some lesser opponents in re­cent weeks, the Irish look to come up with a convincing per­formance against a second tier Big Ten team. Regional rank­ings also come into play, as the Irish currently hold the No. 1 spot in the Mideast. the same region as Michigan. 
The Irish hope to improve on putting opponents away quickly in matches, as they have had to come from behind against Ball State and Illinois State in recent matches. Winning in three games would show the killer instinct the team needs against less prominent squads, as thus far in the season the Irish have tended to play to the level of their competition, keep­ing some matches closer than they should be. 
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Drop-In volleyball is on Thursday, October 14, from 7:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. in the JACC Fieldhouse. For more info, call RecSports at 631­6100.' 
Attention Off-Campus stu­dents: Off-Campus Interhall football has four vacancies to be filled. If interested, call Matt at 273-8859. 
Attention Skiers: $100 deposits will be accepted for the Christmas Break Ski Trip to Breckenridge, Co. between 8-9 p.m. in LaFortune, by the intormation desk. on Thursday Oct. 14. Any questions? Contact Dave Zidar at 273· 3105. 
Attention ND·SMC Aquntrlan Club: If interest· ed in showing this weekend. call Becky aat 634-3874 ASAP. 
SportsTalk welcomes quar­terback Kevin McDougal tonight at 8 p.m. on WVFI 64 
Call in with questions an comments at 631-6400. 


PO Bo:--; 10·43. NOTRE DA,\IE, ll\DI.\l\A .f6")"16 
October 12, 1993 
Greeting: 
The National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week is underway at Notre Dame, and we have a special item for students in the dining halls tonight. We will be serving two types of mocktails. Why mocktails? Good question. 
College life should be about options. Options and opportunities to learn about the real world. In the real world of college life, an offer of an alcoholic beverage is usually one of acceptance, of friendship. But why are non-alcohol alternatives not offered as readily? 
We believe that it is the responsibility of party hosts to always offer non-alcoholic alternatives. You might be surprised by the number of recovering young alcoholics. Or even at the growing number of young people that choose not to drink alcohol. 
So expand everyone's options --always have a non-alcoholic alternative available. 
And as the theme for the week prompts you, if necessary, "Make the Choice to Make a Change." 
Sincerely, 
~e~ 
David R. Prentkowski Director of Food Services 
DRP/cd · 

The Observer • MEN'S INTERHALL page 17 


The Observer/John Bingham Cavanaugh running back Mike Norbut ran the ball in for the winning touchdown against Carroll last weekend. 
L1

P R I :'\ C I P L E S of S 0 ;'\ D 
,...,..., 
p ,: / ..# 
,:'#K. 4['.. ·:; 
..,-· 
~-~.·ttl··c··...·· \ . ::· : ·. (!
.. ... ••• ,.L...~trn:."'"'""
. . . · 
.. /• 
~..-. ~.c. r:;::c _.. (·'t;1·" 
-L~· 

tur,e4~4H. :r--;;z:l'""*"'-""' 4 ·--· 
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START SAVING FORRETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. 
C
an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. 
By starting to save now, you can take advantage of tax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $wo each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $154,031*by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $211 each month to reach the same goal. 

StRrtpillmU"'Jyourfuture. Cllll our EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 
75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it!M 


JAJJuming an inlmJI ra/t of 6. 50% cr<dtttd to TIAA Rdinmml Annuitiu. Tbi.r ra/( i.r UJ(d Jo!tly to .rbow tb, pou•a and rffut of compounding. Lo""r or bigba rata would proJua ''"Y Jiffmnl rtJu!t,. CREF artifu:atu ar.r Ji.rt,.;hut,J hy TIAA-CREF lmlio•iJual and !nJitiutional S,rvicu. 
R E T I R E ,\\ E ;'\ T I :'\ \' EST I N G 
..,_.}r::_..c; 
/?.)'" 
Even ifyou're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve­with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest­ment choices, and a record ofpersonal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? 
Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you have time and TIAA-CREF working on your side. 
Final minutes become crucial in Alumni's upset and Cavanaugh's win 
By JOSEPH VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
After winning their first game in six years, St. Ed's came into Sunday's blue league game feeling confident and ready to tackle the Dawgs from Alumni. However, Alumni stopped the streak at one as they managed to pull out a 14-7 victory in the second of two thrilling games of the day. 
After missing two field goals to break a 7-7 deadlock, Alumni defensive end, Bob Bollman, recovered a St. Ed's fumble on the three yard line with under a minute left. From there, Rob Hardison preceded to take the pitch out in for the touchdown and the win. 
Head coach Paul Zachlin was proud of his team and said,"We just stuck with it. We missed a couple of chances to go up, but our offense kept on scratching and our defense kept on fight­ing." 
That fumble by St. Ed's was just one of their four turnovers of the day, two of which were intercepted by safety Alex Aguire. 

Alumni's first score of the game was set up by a 40-yard pass from quaterback Bob Belden to wide receiver Greg Scherle. Alumni then ran it in on the sweep for an early 7-0 lead. 
Despite their sputtetring offense in the second half, St. Ed's managed to put together a well-balanced offensive attack in the first half. Jason Woodward led the running game accounting for most of their frrst downs. Howey~r, St. Ed's only score came through the air with one second left in the half.· St. Ed's quarterback Paul Rogers managed to find a streaking John Mcguire down the sidelines for the touchdown as the half drew to a close. 
Cavanaugh 6, Carroll 3 
Whatever excitement this game lacked in the first three quarters was sure made up in the fourth quarter as Cavanaugh defeated Carroll in a thriller, 6-3. 
Both teams had trouble mov­ing the ball all day until Cavanaugh's last possesion. The drive started on their own 47-yard line with just two min­utes left when sophomore quar­terback Charlie Algier was able to get one of their few first downs on the keeper. Sophomore running back Mike Norbut then stole the show, running the ball down to Carroll's 20-yard line with under a minute left. On the next play with just 37 seconds left, Norbut, on the option from Algier, streaked down the side­line for the winning score. 
Norbut attributed the victory 
to Naugh's endurance. He said, 
"That whole last drive we just 
decided to suck it up and go for 
it." 

Up to that point the offense 
was dismal against Carroll's 
formidable defensive unit. The 
running game was stalled and 
Algier never had anytime to 
throw. Coach Tony Nowak 
added, "If our offense plays the 
first 58 minutes as well as it 
does the last two, we'll be 
alright." 

Carroll's lone field goal came 
after a nice fake punt on fourth 
down which got them to around 
Cavanaugh's 20-yard line. 
From there, Jerry Maloney 
kicked it in to account for 
Carroll's offensive total. Senior 
captain Mike Bell said, "The 
loss was disappointing consid­
ering we beat them on both 
sides of the ball." 
Zahm 3, Sorin 0 
When something keeps on 
working, a team will usually try 
and stick with it for a while. 
That's exactly what Zahm did 
in the last game of the after­
noon in the blue league as they 
squeaked past Sorin 3-0. 
10/5 TEAM REC. 9/28 
1. Fisher 2-0-0 1 2. Keenan 2-0-0 6 3. Zahm 2-0-1 5 4. Morrisey 2-1-0 2 5. Cavanaugh 1-0-1 7 6. Stanford 1-1-1 4 7. Dillon 1-1-0 8 8. Alumni 1-1-0 11 9. St. Ed's 1-0-2 3 10. Off-Campus 1-2-0 9 11. Flanner 0-2-1 10 12. Carroll 0-1-2 12 13. Sorin 0-3-0 13 14. Grace 0-3-0 14 Compiled by IH Staff Writers 
GOLD DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
1. 
Keenan 1. Fisher 

2. 
Morrissey 2. Zahm 

3. 
Dillon 3. Cav. 

4. 
Stanford 4. Alumni 



Jim Walsh , junior running back. Playing wiht a twisted ankle, pulled groin, and hip pointer, Walsh scored on 4th & goal from the one for the game-winning TD in Keenan's 14-12 win over Stanford. 

wishbone offense for the second week in a row to their advan­tage. By using this ball-control offense, the Rabid Bats domi­nated time of possesion and held Sorin to just two offensive sequences the entire second half. 
"We played real well today," said Zahm coach David Dominanni. "Beside trapping well behind the line, our ball control was the difference." 
When Sorin did have the ball Zahm's defense stepped up to pitch the shutout. The defen­sive rush was lead by sopho­more defensive end Pat Mcdonough who had two sacks on the day of Sorin quarterback Jeff Faragher. 
The Zahm offense consisted of mainly a ground attack guid­ed by junior Rick Rios and freshman Matt Bundick who accounted for most of the offense. Sophomore quarter­back Randy Swatland did go deep to Rios late in the game, but the Sorin defense then stopped the drive. 
'' 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
Review 
continued from page 15 

Alabama aims for 8th straight over Tennessee 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. The stakes are all too clear for Alabama this weekend. 
"We don't want to be re­membered as the team that lost to Tennessee," Alabama defen­sive back Chris Donnelly said Monday. "We don't want to be remembered as the team that broke the streak." 
That streak has reached seven games, dating to Tennessee's 16-14 victory at Birmingham on Oct. 19, 1985. Since then, the Crimson Tide has won big -56-28 in 1986 and 4 7-30 in 1989 -and won small -9-6 in 1990 and 24-19 two years ago. 
But no matter what the mar­gin, the famed Third Saturday in October keeps turning up crimson with the same regu­larity as the leaves turning col­ors in the fall. 
"I don't even try to (explain it)," said Alabama coach Gene Stallings. "First of all, statisti­cally, they don't have an ad­vantage and we don't have an advantage. It's all back to square one. 
"You think, 'well. they've won it so many it's their time' or 'we've won so many'-but that has absolutely nothing to do with the statistics. We've both got an equal opportunity to win the ballgame, and that's the only way that I approach it." 
But it's hard to overlook the series history. Entering Saturday's game at Legion Field in Birmingham, Alabama has won 18 of the last 22 meet­ings -a reign of dominance that may have contributed to two Tennessee coaches losing their jobs. 
Bill Battle was forced out in 1976 despite a 59-22-2 record. His crime: six straight losses to Bear Bryant-coached Alabama teams. Battle's successor, Johnny Majors. put together a four-game winning streak against the Tide after the Bear retired, but his overall mark against Alabama was a dismal 4-12 before he was shown the door last year. 
The Alabama players seem befuddled by their success against the Vols. 
The No. 2 Tide (5-0 overall, 3-0 SEC) has the inside track to the SEC title game no matter what happens Saturday. 

Barkleytests fine; returns to camp 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Charles Barkley. declared fit and able to practice, underwent one more neurological test Monday and then left for the Phoenix Suns' training camp in Flagstaff. 
The Suns said the league's MVP would take part in a lim­ited practice Monday night at the Rolle Activity Center on the Northern Arizona University campus, 
The team had practiced for more than two hours Saturday night when Barkley collapsed during wind sprints and com­plained of numbness in his legs. A bulging disk in his back, detected in August, was sus­pected. 
On Sunday, Barkley was test• ed through magnetic resonance imaging, a CAT-scan and the injection of dye into his spinal column. 
Suns president Jerry Colangelo said doctors had found nothing to merit surgery or sideline the team's star for­ward. 
Colangelo said the injury probably stemmed from thick­ening of a tendon that rubbed against a nerve shielded by the L-5 vertebra. 
"If there was a serious prob­lem, I would be telling you a whole different story right now and not have this smile on my face," Colangelo said Sunday night in Flagstaff. 
Suns spokeswoman Julie Fie said Barkley wouldn't partici­pate in the full practice sched­ule in the 7 ,000-foot altitude of Flagstaff, where the thin air likely contributed to his fatigue Saturday. 
"He's probably going to ride the bike and do some shoot­ing," she said. 
well," stated Pyro captain Nina Delorenzo. "We're psyched about being in the playoffs." 
"There were some question­able calls that hurt us, " said Lewis quarterback Failla. "Our offense showed an incredible amount of poise. We put together two drives when we were down, and I have to give credit to our tight ends and split ends." 
P.W. 13, Siegfried 8 
After losing to Farley last week, P.W. proved that they deserve their No. 1 ranking by overcoming a determined Siegfried squad, 13-8. 
In the first half, P.W. scored on a Bethany Riddle pass to Christie Lewis, who ran it in for the touchdown. Riddle then ran in the extra point to make it 7­0. 
P.W. extended their lead by six on a touchdown reception by Bridget Graham in second half action. 
The P.W. defense held Siegfried until late in the game when junior Margaret Zimmermann scored a touch­down, and Kathleen Clark added the two point conver­sion. This pulled the Slammers within five, but time was run­ning out. 
"We tried until the end," said Siegfried captain Angi Luzio. "We knew we weren't going to win, but we scored with a minute left." 
The loss eliminates Siegfried from the playoffs, but they are happy with the way they played. 
I 

A 21g Birthday Poem 
To Matty Verich: I wish you lots ofpresents. I wish you lots of treats. I wish you so much happiness, you're knocked right off your feets! 
ELECTRIC FORMULA RACE CAR 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING STUDENT DESIGN OF DRIVE TRAIN 
To Compete with other Universities in 
1994 CLEVELAND ELECTRIC GRAND PRIX 
Col. John D. !\tiles 1-5532 Dr. William B. Berry 1-6102 Dr. \lichael M. Stanisic 1-7897 
Program Meeting will be held prior to Room 303 Cushing Hall of Engineering. Letters. Business, Science, and Engineering 
Fall break, on October 12. 7:00pm. Participants welcomed from Arts & 


It's a great new way to .... 
•meet 
people 


•learn 
about your faith 

•
read and talk about the Sunday Gospels before Mass 

•share 
prayer and honest discussion about your faith 


Communities ND began in January 1993. A group of students, faculty, rectors, and Campus Ministry staff planned and prepared the format and content. Communities ND offers student-led, mixed groups of 9 -11 men and women the opportunity to come together every other week to pray, reflect upon and discuss Scripture, and talk about issues oflife and faith. 
---NEW COMMUNITIES Wll..L BEGIN IN JANUARY 1994 --­
If you are interested in becoming a part of Communities ND, come to the information night: 
WEDNESDAY,OCTOBER13 9:00 -10:00 p.m. FACULTY DINING ROOM upstairs in the south dining hall refreshments will be served 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
_j 

Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
THE FAR SIDE 

"Most interesting, ma'am-you've identified the defendant as the one you saw running from the scene. I take it, then, that you're unaware that my client is a walking stick?" 
Of INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
SPELUNKER 

'/'KNOW WE'VE BE EN REMISS IN PVBLIC t...'{ WfLCOM lNG-! DAIJG KfU...ET'S "111E FOUR. fooD C,.ROUP.s OF "fi.\E APOCAL'/PS£" -ro n-it: C.OMICS PA~f:. 
IT15 R.EAL..t:y O..l!IT£ RJNNV. WI-I'/ OON'f YOO ALL "TAKE. 11415 TIME-RI"'HT NOW­AND READ I-llS STRIP. 
DoNTWOR.R'{ ABO\IT COMIN' 
6AC.K UP ~ERE. JU51 TAKE YouR 11ME AND SA'IOR HIS CAR1VON. WE'LL ~£ 
YoU TOMORROW. 
1\\\S G\l'i Pll)to.\T LWE 1-1\S JOB, 'JJ 1-\£. Q\JIT, A'N.'V ~O'N \-\£. CU~BS R.OC..KS ! SEE. 1-1£.'5 \-\IS OW!'{ Mr\N .' 1-\E GR/\B5 llt't B'i \W~ T\-\Ro~T f>-~\) LI'IE.S o~ 1-\\S OWN 
'T£RM':> .' 

~ 
y 
I~ \-\~ Q\l\i 1-\1':> j(')~, I 
~~R ~OW \-IE AttORPS 1\\0St: BP'E~'SI\JE A\1-\lt:nc. ~Ot.S Ht:s AI)\I£.RT\SING. 
\ 
JAY HOSLER 
BII.T. W A 'TTFR'\ON 
W..'iB't. \\IS I \-\~ SWC:\..1.. MOM Bo'J51-1T l'f>-'i 1-\\S T\-lt.M FoR M£0\Cft...l BillS 
1-\IM. WI\~ \\£ Ff>.\.l'S OIT \1-tf..T ROCK 
DAVE KELLEIT 



ACROSS 2BWomen's 51 Surmise patriotic gp. 53 Fusses
1 Bottle for 
30 Nomadic 55 Crinkled fabric 
pickles 
dwellings 57 Most

4 Degrade 
33 Card game for impassioned
9 The "Iliad," e.g. 
two &1 Track event 
13 Maugham's 
35 Wildebeests &2 Cooked with 
"Cakes and 
garlic and 
37 Refrain syllable 

tomatoes
38 Extremely

14 Raged 
64 Feudal serf 
39 "Halt, salt!" 

15--War, 
&5 Telecast 

famed horse 41 Cream and mud 
&&Tarzan
followers

16 Thick vegetable 
portrayer Ely 
soup 42 Nigerian staple 
&7 Tear's 

19 Therefore 43 Mild oath companion 
20 Some clams 44 Where to see 68 Good earth 
21 Average; the Parthenon &9 Was in front standard 46 "Erec et --," 23 A vetch Chretien de Troyes tale DOWN
24 Customary manner 48 Broom or moen 
1 Gridlocks 
preceder

25 Saloon 
2 Landed 

habitue 50 Vigorous 3 Artist Magritte 4 Kind of thought 5 Prickly in 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
texture 6 TV role for Alvin Childress 7 China's Sun Vat-­s Sir Anthony and 
Clarissa 9 Come forth 10 Served with 
potatoes ...;..+~+-=-! 11 Swenson of 
"Benson" 12 Unruffled 17 Diner 
-4.c±:;.t:-t-:-t 18 Chie 

--+~+,..-+=-1 22 Equine fare 
c:...:.J..:....:=...&..:.-.L..'-..1 24 Laroe vases 
25 "Fiddler on the 41 Relating to a 54 Exploits 
Roof" lead stage in a cycle 55 Dog-days word 2& Vast quantity 43 "Diga Dig a 56 ---majeste 27 Prepared with a Doo" trio 57 Golfer's alert 
certain Italian 45 Rose's annoying 58 Viscount's cheese companion superior 29 A variegated 47 Housecoat 59 Wild plum chalcedony 49 Relinquishes 60 Watch over 31 Vogue 52 Part of a calyx &3 Cruise port 32lmpudent 34 Corn unit 
Get answers to any three clues 

36 Actress Hagen 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

40 Johnson and 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

Cliburn 
The Alumni Senior Club & Tracks Records 
Get Ready: 
It's Coming! 
DINING HALL 
HIGH QUALITY, LOW COST HAIR CARE 
1811 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 271-7674 
r-----------, r------------.
1 hain:ut coupon 1 I halrout coupon I 
: SAVE : : SAVE : 
: $1.00 : I $2.00 I 
I reg. $8 ! I reg. $1W15 I
J I I WETCUT i 
t SHAMPOO, CUT & I I r , STYLE : 
1 with this coupon 1 
I wi1h tnis rnunon 1 I &llpires: 1 0 I 1 8 I 9 3 I I e>tplres: 1 011 8193 I
L-----------.J L-----------.J 




SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, October 12, 1993 
No. 13 Irish face Wolverines 
The Observer/Brian McDonough Outside hitter Brett Hensel and the 13-ranked Irish will be traveling to Anarbor to take on the Wolverines tomorrow night at 7 p.m. 
Saint Mary's volleyball takes on a double challenge this evening 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Looking to continue its climb towards top 10 status, the No. 13 Notre Dame volleyball team travels to Michigan tomorrow night for a 7 pm contest. The Irish are riding a season high six match winning streak, and hope to perpetuate their domi­nance of the Big Ten, holding a 2-0 edge over the conference this year. 
The Wolverines enter the contest with a 7-7 record, hav­ing defeated Northwestern and 

~-·"" match will be against top-ranked Bethel. ( They will then have a break to gear up for Calvin. 
Today's competition will mark the first time Saint Mary's and Calvin have com­
... 
-...----'"'-peted in volleyball. Calvin is also a Division III School. Two weeks ago they were ranked 14th until they were defeat­
..-...·~··-·---·--·"' ed by Concordia, a team that appears on the Belles' schedule later this week. The ObserverfT.J. Harris Last season, the Belles defeated Bethel The Belles take on Calvin and Bethel Colleges tonight in their toughest trimatch of the in a five game match. 
Wisconsin in their last two matches. However, they have struggled due to injuries this year, and look to star Amy Smith for an instant impact, as she will play against the Irish after having missed much of the season. 
In the absence of Smith, who was projected to be the best re­turning player before her in­jury, a pair of seniors have stepped up for the Wolverines. 
Outside hitter JoAnna Collias has led the Wolverines offen­sively and defensively, notching a team high 135 kills and 155 

..::.,t-_____ ;;. ~.. • ~ ... . ··•.• ~-~-~ 

--
.· ... 
-

season. 

Men's lnterhall 
Blue League Cavanaugh defeats Carroll during a thrilling 4th quarter. 
see page 17 digs. She has been joined by classmate Fiona Davidson, whose .222 hitting percentage leads the team from her middle blocker position. 
Despite Smith's return and the solid play of the seniors, the biggest problem the Wolverines pose for Notre Dame is their contrasting style. 
"Traditionally, they run a very slow and basic offense with a lot of high sets," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown, who has led the team to a 14-3 record. "Their goal is not to make mistakes, so we have to be patient, especially with our block," she added. 
Throughout the match, look for Notre Dame to force the tempo with quick passing and sets, trying to take advantage of the slower, less athletic Wolverines. This quicker pass­ing should help the Irish exploit Michigan's weaknesses at the net. 
"They have a small setter (freshman Erin McGovern), so we hope to isolate Christy Peters hitting over her," com­mented Brown. "They also have a very tall right outside hitter, so we'll need quick pass­ing to avoid hitting into her." 
The Irish have had a week off from scheduled matches, hav­ing played just an exhibition against Irish volleyball alumni since last Tuesday. 
"The time off was significant, because while we've done re­ally well of late, the team was 
see V-BALL I page 16 


"It was a tough win," Schroeder-Biek 
Inside SPORTS 

Women's lnterhall 

Gold League 

P.W. stomps Seigfried to recover number one ranking. 

see page 15 
By MARY GOOD 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team is fac­ing a double challenge today as they take on both Calvin College and Bethel College in their second triangular match of the season. 
Since Saint Mary's is an independent, they try to include as many teams with conference affiliations as possible in their schedule. This trimatch set up allows Saint Mary's to play Bethel, who is cur­rently ranked first in the nation in the NCCAA. This triangular scheduling also gives the team the opportunity to fit as many games as possible into their limited allowance of game dates. 
The team is not as overwhelmed by this dual challenge as one might expect. "We are facing the same situation as a tourna­ment where you cannot choose who you play and you keep playing the teams that win. Those are the best matches," said senior Ann Lawrence. Since the Belles are hosting the match, they will have the advantage of being able to choose who they play first. Their first 
said. In addition to a winning record, Bethel also has a large following that Schroeder-Biek expects will add to the intensity of today's match. The Belles' coach is also excited because, "both teams are stronger this year." 
Since today's match falls exactly in the middle of Saint Marys' season, it is going to be important for team morale. 
"Today's match will really tell us where we're at," Schroeder-Biek said. 
"This match falls at an important point in the season where a win can help our confidence for the rest of the season," Lawrence said. 
The Belles have been practicing very well lately according to their coach. Their biggest problem in recent matches has been passing, but in last night's prac­tice they were on top of their passing drills. Schroeder-Biek hopes last night's excellent passing will carry over into today's games. 
"We need to pass at the top of our game so that we can run good offense," she said. 
The Belles are not depending on any one player to carry them. "It will have to be very much a team win," said Schroeder-Biek. 
"We need to stay focused as a team and put all our intensity into the game to win it," sophomore Sara Stronczek said. 
The women on the team are facing two tough competitions back-to-hack today, but they remain confident. 
"We're excited," said senior Mary Wheeler. "We should come out on top if we stay intense and keep communicating on the court." 
Men's lnterhall 
Gold League Keenan beats Stanford 14-12 in last weekend's game. 
see page 16 





