---~---------~ 
-----------·--------------~---­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 127 FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ROTC faces prospect of gays in units 

Castillo tops SMC graduates 

By BETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

Beatriz Castillo, a French and Psychology major with a cur­rent grade point average of 3.9, will be the first international student to be named valedicto­rian of Saint Mary's College since 1979. 
"I think that it is unusual to have an international student,' whose native language is not English, to have done so well in both English and another for· 
· eign language," said Teresa 
Marcy, assistant to the vice 
president. 

A Mexican native, Castillo de­veloped her linguistic skills her sophomore year in Angers, France and last summer at an internship as a curriculum co­ordinator for schools in Poland. She also gives tours at the Snite Museum in Spanish. 
"I really appreciate all of the opportunities that Saint Mary's has given me to be in touch with so many cultures," said Castillo. "The comparison has helped me to understand my own Mexican heritage." 
Castillo learned about Saint Mary's College from alumnae in her home town of Cuernavaca. 
"I was interested in a liberal arts education and Saint Mary's has such a high reputation," commented Castillo. "I have come to appreciate the value of a women's college." 
Academically Castillo has taken full advantage of her lib­eral arts education at Saint Mary's. Entering the College as an intended Psychology major, she decided to add French after participating in Notre Dame's study abroad program in Angers, France. 
"I feel that the two majors encompass each other," Castillo said. "The study of the human being and behavior gives insight when interpreting the cultural values, time periods and historical background of writers." 
Castillo has been successful in both of her majors. She was well appreciated even in her freshman year, according to Marcy. 
"Beatriz has shown herself to be exceptional in a variety of ways," said Associate Professor of French Julie Storme. "Her academic skills, linguistic skills, maturity and sophistication of 
see CASTILLO I page 4 
Special to the Observer 
Antonia Novello, the Surgeon General of the United States, will address the 1993 graduat­ing class of Saint Mary's at the College's 146th annual com­mencement on May 15. 
More than 400 seniors will be awarded degrees during the ceremony, which begins at noon in the Le Mans Hall courtyard. 
Novello, who will receive an honorary doctor of science de­gree, was sworn in as surgeon general of the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) in 1990. She is the first woman and the first Hispanic to hold the position. 
As surgeon general. Novello's duties include recommending precautions necessary to pro­tect the public health and safety. She serves as a public advisor on such health matters as AIDS, diet and nutrition, smoking and health, environ­mental health hazards and the importance of immunization and disease prevention. She also oversees the 6,400-mem­ber Public Health Service Commissioned Corps. 
Novello entered the USPHS in 1978 after working in the pri­vate practice of pediatrics and nephrology, a kidney specialty. 
Prior to her appointment as surgeon general. her USPHS career was spent with the Na­tional Institutes of Health (NIH.) As deputy director of the Na­tional Institute of Children's Health and Human Develop­ment, her responsibilities in­cluded the coordination of pe­diatric AIDS research. 
In addition to leading a spe­cial work group in the reorga­nization and revitalization of the USPHS, Novello has chaired the Department of Health and Human Services' Task Force on Pediatric HIV/AIDS and co­chaired the NIH Advisory Committee on Women's Health Issues. 
While at NIH, Novello was detailed to the Senate Commit­tee on Labor and Human Re­sources. There, she made ma­jor contributions to the drafting and enactment of the Organ Procurement Transplantation Act of 1984 and was successful in drafting warning labels con­cerning the health risks of ci­garette smoking. 
The College will also present two additional honorary de­grees: . 
Dolores Leckey, executive di­rector of the National Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops' Secre­tariat for Family, Laity, Women and Youth, will receive the honorary doctor of letters de­gree. Leckey oversees the ad­ministrative body serving the 
U.S. Catholic bishops' standing committees on laity, marriage and family and women in church and society. She is also responsible for youth and young adult ministry. 
She has served with public and private schools and col­leges, on seminary faculties, in broadcasting, as a parish and diocesan consultant and as a conference and retreat leader. 
In 1980 and 1987, Leckey was an official advisor to American 
see NOVELLO I page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 


There is hope for a better social life at Saint Mary's 
There is no social life at Saint Mary's. The Saint Mary's administration is too strict and in turn limits the possibilities for students. And most importantly when concerns are raised, the administration has been unwilling to listen to or respond to them. -------­
This may have been true in the past, but at least recently, the administration has been responsive to the students, which are the life and blood of the College. 
For the past two years the Senior Officers o the College have voted to amend the parietal policy. They have elicited student opinion before even considering a vote on such issues as the student activity fee, the smoking policy or the parietal changes. 
The signs from the administration are encouraging, but this support of student concerns needs to continue. If these efforts are token then the administration must reconsider its stance. 
When the Board of Regents meets this weekend they too need to be responsive to the direction the administration has selected for the College. 
As the Senior Officers meet to deliberate the outcome of the student activity fee increase. they need to consider what exactly students were saying in the surveys they completed in the middle of March. Formost in their minds must be what is it that students at Saint Mary's want and need and the students are saying that want increased social opportunities. 
When the Board meets early this summer to consider the report of the Long Range Planning Committee that makes recommendations for what students. faculty and the administration want Saint Mary's to look like in the year 2000, it must seriously consider what students in the committees had to say. 
The students said that the course load at the College is overwhelming. Many feel that when the last long range planning committee met after the collapse of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's merger and made changes to the curriculm they didn't think through the consequences of the decision. The addition o the senior comprehensive requirement. similar to that of a master's thesis, and an advanced writing profiecency requirement without a reduction in the required amount of course hours for graduation was ill planning on the part of the Board. 
In instances such as these the Board and the Senior Officers must consider how such proposals and amendments to policy may adversely affect students. 
It is important that in all such instances that student input be listened to and considered. 
The life of the College depends on its students and if students are not satisfied the College will suffer. Satisfying every whim of the students will not necessarily bring about the best possible situation, but listening to their questions, comments and concerns and taking these seriously will. 
The response of the administration recently has been encouraging, but the continuation o such support is a necessity. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff Sports
News 

Brian Kubicki
John Lucas Katie Murphy 

VIewpoint Production 
Allison Ebel Kristin Ruethling 
Business

Ronald Veldman John Connorton Gerrie Hamilton
Accent 

Susan MarxAllison Ebel Bevin Kovalik 
Graphics 

Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
---------~--------.
--~------~~~---~ 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Gorbachev uroes 
trade, world taxes 
• 
WASHI_NG~6N -Former S~viet leader Mikhail Gorbachev chided American businessmen Thursday for being "quite timid" and urged them to be more aggressive in investing in Russia. "I don't see the aggressiveness I used to see in the past," Gorbachev said at a lunch sponsored by members of Congress. Gorbachev said the value of potential trade with Russia far outstripped the $1.6 billion aid package Clinton proposed. "What Russia needs is not handouts. Russia needs partnership.'' Gorbachev devoted much of his speech to discussing the International Green Cross, a new group he will head with the object of finding global solutions to environmental problems. "The situation is alarming, and we need action. We need new vision," he said. Gorbachev noted that Thursday was the deadline for paying income taxes in the United States and said it's now time for the world to pay a "survival tax." Either we pay, he said, or "it's requiem for mankind." 

• 
WASHING ON-President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, paid $70,228 in federal income taxes for 1992 on an adjusted gross income of $290,697 -most of it hers, according to their tax returns. Mrs. Clinton,. a corporate lawyer, has long been the family's main breadwinner. Clinton made just $34,527 last year as Arkansas' governor. "Took a pretty good lick," Clinton said. Vice President AI Gore and his wife, Tipper, also released their tax returns. They reported $623,243 in 1992 income, including $461,529 in royalties from Gore's best-selling book, "Earth 


OF INTEREST 
• A Spanish Mass held at the Pasquerilla East Chapel at 11:30 a.m. Sunday. Father Don McNeill will be the celebrant. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING April 7 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 296,302,800 ·.34 to 247.39 S&P COMPOSITE ·.26 to 448.40 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +.28 to 3455.92

UNCHANGED 558 

GOLD 
-$2.50 to $337.20/oz 
SILVER -$.067 to $3.878/oz 

in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit." The Gores paid $166,979 in federal taxes, and claimed $61,876 in deductions. 
CAMPUS 

Saint Ma~'s orofessor recognized 
• 
NOTREAME-David Sever, professor of biology at Saint Mary's, has been selected as the recipient of the Significant Achievement Award from his alma mater, Ohio University. Sever has taught at Saint Mary's since 1974. A native of Canton, Ohio, he earned his bachelor's degree in zoology from the university in 1971. Sever specializes in the study of amphibians and reptiles. The Significant Achievement Award is presented in recognition of his distinguished professional and scholarly record since graduating from the university. 

• 
N TRE DAME-Two national awards were presented to six students from Holy Cross College for their academic achievements and excellence. Three of the students were named 1993 National Junior College Academic All­Americans by the National Council of Independent Junior Colleges. Recipients for this national recognition were selected based on grade point averages, commitment to campus and community involvement, and good citizenship. One student, Elizabeth Feeks, was also selected as a 1993 National· Junior College Presidents Scholar of Distinction. The other two students who received All-American recognition are David Szumski and Anthony Brooke. In addition, Michael Stewart, Autumn Gill, and Sarah Aldape were recognized by the College Entrance Examination Board in its 1993 Talent Roster of Outstanding Minority Transfer Students from Two-Year Colleges. 

• 
The International Festival, sponsored by the ISO, will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Century Center. The Latin Fiesta will be tomorrow night at 7 p.m. at the_ South Dining Hall. 



ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1862: A bill ending slavery in the District of Columbia became law. 

• 
In 1918: The Federal Food Board began prosecuting grocers who refuse to label food. 

• 
In 1956: Bulgarian Premier Chervenkov was ousted in an anti-Stalin drive. 

• 
In 1964: German Geraldine Mock became the first woman to complete a solo round-world flight. 

• 
In 1973: Martha Mitchell called Richard Nixon's claim that he and John Mitchell didn't meet April 4th a "god-blessed lie." 

• 
In 1991: President Bush announced that U.S. forces would be sent into northern Iraq to assist Kurdish refugees. 



Friday, April16, 1993 The Observer page 3 

Johnson: Earth linked to feminism Science, religion can 
By MARY GOOD In gender related issues, Johnson gave clues that help 
produce understanding 
News Writer masculine qualities and individuals break down the 
metaphors are linked with the barriers that stand between 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT 

If Mother Earth is to continue idea of spirit and transcen­spirit and matter. 
News Writer 

producing the fruits of pros­dence. Feminine references She said that valuing one perity, humans must reexamine are associated with matter and another in two-way relation­Although the assumption thattheir values regarding the link material principles, conse­ships rather than competing 
science and religion are
between the earth, women, and quently leading to a natural in­with and dominating each separated by an unbridgeablethe Spirit, according to Sister feriority, according to Johnson. other, will deconstruct the gap still exists, in actuality, theElizabeth Johnson. This subordination of women hierarchy of dualism and con­two disciplines can work to­"The exploitation of the earth, benefits only the ruling men struct a circle of interconnect­gether to produce a more real­which has reached crisis pro­and can lead to problems that edness. This will draw spirit istic approach to understandingportions in our day, is inti­reach into the political arena, and matter together. 
God, according to Janet Martinmately linked to the marginal­she continued. Johnson also said that view­Soskice of the Cambridge Uni­ization of women, and both of In respect to the earth, sym­ing humanity as superior to the versity Divinity School, these predicaments are intrin­bolism in nature is highly fem­earth and dominant over it is a 
Soskice elaborated on the
sically related to forgetting the inine. Johnson attributes this problem. She called this 
fundamental question set for
Creator Spirit who pervades the to the fact that nature as well "absolute kingship". She de­this week's symposium, whichworld in the dance of life," iJ.S women play nurturing and scribed a more neutral ap­deals with whether scientificJohnson said in her lecture last life-giving roles. The link lies in proach called the "stewardship 
knowledge is enough to un­
night at Saint Mary's. the domination and manipula­model". This model "calls for derstand the spiritual world. 
The underlying problem in tion of women and nature by humans to be responsible care­Soskice's method was to tracethis issue is the world's division the very men they produce and takers of the earth," she said. 
the development of scientificinto two "separate and oppos­support. The ideal model, however, is arguments which attempt toing spheres," she said. The Holy Spirit is comparably the "kinship model," according explain the evolution of the uni­The focus of one group is ignored and neglected, Johnson to Johnson. This calls us to verse, and tie that in with thespirit. Johnson said we associ­said. Despite the place that the realize our connection to the dynamic philosophic question, ate concepts of permanence Holy Spirit holds in the Trinity, earth as products of it. From "What is knowledge, and howand the soul with spirit. Spirit it is often referred to as the cell to mind to we belong to the do we acquire it?" 
centers around infinite realities. "forgotten God" or, ironically, universe. Johnson said "the Science is the cause of theThe focus of the opposition is the "Cinderella of theology". In world is our body". 
"disenchanted universe" whichmatter. Matter deals with regard to the Trinity, Johnson The Spirit is instrumental in so many regard as the result of corruptability and the body. It said that, "dualism has trouble this connection due to the sim­the seeming conflict betweencenters around finite concepts. with threes". She called for an ple fact that the "Spirit is the theological and scientific study,This dualism has tremendous appreciation of the important creative origin of all life," she according to Soskice.
impact on women, the earth, nurturing role the Creator said. Since the Spirit is the 
Not by any fault of the scien­and our relationship with the Spirit serves in keeping things member of the Trinity that is tists, who seek descriptive an­lloly Spirit, she said. connected. most present in every move­swers to questions, two differ­
ment on the earth, it encom­

ent views or "epistemologies"passes both matter and spirit. 
have arisen. The scientific
The new insights are meant epistemology is a compressionto convert people to the circle of 

of the screntific method.
the earth, according to John­Where scientific research yields son. She called for change from 

facts, the related process ofhierarchical dualism to 
knowing comprises verifiablecommunity., while also chal­
evidence and experiments
lenging the audience to turn the 

which can be duplicated to
pyramid into a circle. People show results. 
need to do this through con­

The theological epistemology templation and prophecy, she confronts the reconciliation ofsaid. 
Happy Birtday to our Favorite guy: 
KEN MYERS! 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Cinema at the Snite 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:00 , 9:45 

human feelings with reason, the experimentation process of the non-scientist, and attempts to integrate faith. Soskice's conclusion was that science and religion do not need individual epistemologies, nor should the goal be to unite the two. The overlap, according to Soskice, lies in how human beings relate to their concepts of the divine. 
To explain her choice of a title for her speech, Soskice said that, "Science hasn't proved that God is dead, but that man is dead." 
By allowing the scientific way of gathering knowledge to in­fluence the search for the na­ture of God, the proximity of human beings to God has been ignored. The search for infor­mation, while effective in some disciplines, denies the human element in the theological search. 
The scientific method is an example, however, of the pa­tience and careful scrutiny with which the search for God should proceed. It could com­pensate for the human ten­dency to adopt, as Soskice characterized it, the "God's eye view." 
The process, she suggests is "going deeply within" instead of "going beyond." All who undertake the challenge of understanding their faith ought to follow her advice that, "we need to proceed with more modesty." 
In his homily at the Mass which ended the symposium's Thursday session, President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, affirmed Ms. Sos­kice's sentiment when he spoke of the appropriateness of the University of Notre Dame as the site for such deliberation. 
To attempt to understand "a faith which cries out to be un­derstood more fully," the de­bate between disciplines should go on exhibiting the "marvels of the multiform views oflife." 
Don't spend an hour in the shower! 




r.ookNo~ 
for 

~mm~ 
London $169* Paris $165* Madrid $339* Rome $345* Athens $395* 

*Faresareeachwayfrom Chicagobased 011a roundtrip purchase. Taxes not included and restrictions apply. Call for other worldwide destinations. both one W"f and roundtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 

311·951-0585 
Call for your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 

---------~---------­
the literary executor of Dawson's estate, arranging for


Novello Serbs tighten noose on Srebrenica 
publications of his work 
continued from page 1 
bishops at synods in Rome. 
An honorary doctor of hu­manities degree will be awarded to British writer, edi­tor and literary manager Christina Dawson Scott in cele­bration of her professional ac­complishments and in recogni­
tion of the Christian Culture program at Saint Mary's, influenced by Scott's father, the late British scholar 

Christopher 
Antonia 
Dawson. 
Novello
During her career, Scott has held editorial positions with several British publications and served as foreign rights manager for the British Society of Authors. She is the author of "A Historian and His World," the biography of her father, and presently is 
SECURITY SEAT 
TUES., APRIL 13 
7:43 a.m. Security transported an Injured North Dining Hall employee from the Student Health Center to St. Josephs Medical Center. 
8:15 a.m. A Lyons Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from the lobby of the SOUth Dining Hall. 
11:10 a.m.Security transported an Injured South Bend resident from the Pasquerilla Center to the Student Health Center. 
11:40 a.m. Security stopped a South Bend resident on Douglas Road. The suspect was charged with Driving While Suspended. 
3:10 p.m. A Breen-Phllllps Hall resident reported a theft In the LaFortune Student Center 
4:30 p.m. Security responded to a two vehicle acck:lent In the A-19 parking lot. No Injuries were reported. 
6:31 p.m. Security transported an Injured University employee from the JACC to the Student Health Center. 
11:39 p.m. Security stopped a Notre Dame student for disregarding a stop sign on Bulla Road. · 
WED., APRIL 14 
1:40 a.m. Security stopped a Notre Oerne student for speeding near Juniper Road. 
5:07 p.m. Security transported an injured Keenan Hall resident from the Bookstore basketball court to the Student Health 
Center. . 
5:48 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his CD player from Nieuwland Science Hall. 
THURS., APRIL 15 
7:49 a.m. Security transported an Injured University employee from the JACC to the Student Health Center. 
10:16 a.m. A Knott Hall resident reported the theft of some cash from her wallet. 
12:30 p.m. A University employee reported the loss of her vehicle's parking decal while the vehicle was parked off campus. 
I.Buy4-;-SSIOflS-:;t the regular I price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and I 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA~

L--------­
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
277-794o 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 


Nll 
5t 
! Jell'croon 
I 
Main & Jefferson 

Hours 

Mon-Sat 11 a.m.-11p.m. Not a Franchise• A Family Sun 4-9 p.m. Owned Business 257 .-1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs •Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 


For Fast Delivery Call 2 73 --2EAT 
$2 off any pizza with Student ID 
shelling. 

Bosnian state radio said three people were killed as Serbs tightened their noose on Srebrenica, launching infantry and tank attacks from the east and southeast. 
Tens of thousands of des­perate Muslims are stranded in Srebrenica, one of only three eastern Bosnian enclaves still held by Muslims. Its fall would be a severe blow to the gov­ernment cause. 
Earlier in the day, Sre­brenica's defenders blocked a planned truck evacuation, de­manding that 500 wounded Muslim soldiers be flown out first. U.N. officials say Serbs have not granted their request to make air evacuations from Srebrenica. 
Croats and Muslims also clashed in central Bosnia for a second day. 
In other developments Thursday: 
• Yugoslavia's Tanjug news agency reported a massacre of 17 wounded Bosnian Serb rebels by Muslim units in east­ern Bosnia. There was no in­dependent confirmation. 
• NATO warplanes enforcing a 
U.N. ban on flights over Bosnia tracked two unidentified aircraft in the prohibited airspace but could not intercept them. U.S. Air Force Maj. Steve Headley, a NATO spokesman. declined to say where or when the aircraft were spotted. 
• 
In a letter to the United Na­tions, Ambassador Dragomir Djokic of Yugoslavia said the influx of 655,000 war refugees, mainly Serbs, has strained his country's economy, already bruised by stiff U.N. sanctions imposed in May. 

• 
The Security Council sched­uled a vote on Bosnia on Mon­day and Tuesday, in response to a request by non-aligned members angry that a vote on imposing sanctions on Serbia has been delayed at Russia's behest. 

• 
President Clinton's special envoy on Bosnia, Reginald Bartholomew, conferred with British officials but failed to re­solve differences over arming Bosnia's embattled Muslims. America wants an arms em­bargo lifted for the Muslims if economic sanctions fail to shift the Serbs. 


throughout the world. 

In 1956, under the direction of Professor Bruno Schlesinger Saint Mary's became the first college in the United States to adopt Dawson's plans for inter­disciplinary study into an un­dergraduate program. 
Saint Mary's will present its President's Medal for commu­nity service and contributions to the life of the College to Mary McGahey Dwan of Washington, D.C. 
Dwan holds a bachelor's de­gree from Saint Mary's and a master's degree from the Col­lege's School of Sacred Theol­ogy (which awarded degrees from 1944-69). 
She has served as a grade school teacher and a Project Head Start director in Washing­ton, as national chair of the Madeleva Society at Saint Mary's, as a member of the College's Board of Regents and as a researcher for consumer advocate Ralph Nader of Com­mon Cause. 



Castillo 
continued from page 1 

vision have set a standard that we never could have expected." 
"Beatriz is extremely insight­ful." said Tom Parisi, the chair of the psychology department. "She cares deeply not only about the intellectual aspects, 
TUZLA. Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) -The beleaguered Mus­lim enclave of Srebrenica re­portedly came under fierce Serbian fire Thursday, hours after the town's defenders blocked a U.N. evacuation of hundreds of civilians. 
Serb forces closed to within about a mile of Srebrenica, sources in nearby Tuzla said. Town officials were cited in ra­dio reports saying Srebrenica was on the verge of falling. 
U.N. officials in contact with Srebrenica from Sarajevo gave credence to reports the town was about to fall. They spoke on condition of anonymity. 
At the United Nations, Bosnian Ambassador Muhammed Sacirbey told reporters he had heard reports of the town's fall but was seeking confirmation. He Said telephone lines to Srebrenica had been cut. 
There was no independent confirmation of the reports and a Serb commander denied any but also the moral aspects of Psychology. 
Castillo would like to continue her education in graduate school. She has already been accepted into the International Educational Development pro­gram at Columbia University and a similar program at Boston University. 
However, she is waiting to hear from Stanford University before she makes a decision. 




(LASS OF '95 
There will be a mandatory meeting for anyone interested in being a member of the Junior Class Council on April 19 at 8:00 
p.m. in LaFortune Center's Montgomery Theatre 

-----~---­
Friday, April16, 1993 

ass med1a 1stort1ng Russian power struggle 
By GUY LORANGER 
News Writer 
..f.._;,: 

The current situation Russia bas been distorted by the American mass media, according Professor Igor Grazln, who spoke last night at the St. Ed's Hall Forum. 
"The political situation in Russia is deeply complicated," Grazin said. "Therefore, th() media's soap opera portray~ of Yeltsin and the good guys versus Parliament and the bad guys is simply wrong.,. 
According to Grazin, a former People's Deputy in the USSR, the Prime Minister's near impeachment three weeks ago occurred in • country far removed from the time of the August 1991 military coup. 
"In March of 1993, the strug­gle did not take place between Communists and Democrats, but rather between different types of Democrats who, for the most part. share the same basic values and ideas," Grazin said. "The opposing sides want Russia heading in the right direction, but differ as to what paths they should take in getting there. 
Grazin stated that one of the 

take~ of oor Cdklge Grad.Jates ard Ycm;J &ryers p~rams !tat wil rebate yoo up to $400. Pijlt OON yoo can buy atony $100 !71er dealer invace! Cal me tcxi:!y! 
main issues dividing Russia's 

United ..·ime 
Minister could a.ssun1e most 
political power. ln. contrast, 
Russia could imitate Great 
Britain's system of gov· 
ernment, giving its Parliament 
primary COJ\trOl. . 
"I. believe in a republic led by a strong presidential t1 
re," Grazin..said. ·l\;t ..i.f 
Like Poland, Russian can ei~ ther use a "shock therapy" system of economic reforms. which would mean an immediate liberalization of prices without . fast privatization! or a "step~by· step" system. wblch would cut·off subsidies. . 
Both systems, bowexe,l\ have 
·their drawbacks. For instance; shock therapy wotdd exclude a huge portion of society from consumption, achieving a market balance only by cutting-off demand while supply is not Increased, 
"If the United States and 
other western countries want 
to help secure a prosperous 
future for Russia, then it will 
require more than 1.6 billion 
dollars, " be said. 
FORD TOYOTA VOLVO MITSUBISHI LINCOLN-MERCUR 
REGULAR HOURS MON., TUES., THURS. B-9 
WtD,. FRI., SAT. B-6 
The Observer page·5 
Regimes lack economic control 

By TONY POTTINGER 
News Writer 
Differences in forms of gov­ernment have had little or no effect on the economies of South American nations, ac­cording to Dr. Adam Przeworski of the University of Chicago. 
Consisting largely of research and statistical analysis from an extensive survey of 47 regimes in ten South American nations since World War II, Prze­worski's presentation sought to remove the bias from his exam­ination of this topic through in­depth research. 
"All previous instances of this study have involved biases. One can not rely on previous obser­vations of this topic. The exam­iner's results have consistently reflected their personal prefer­ence of South American regime types--democratic or authori­tarian," he said. 
Choosing South America for 

Encyclical demands new attention 

By BRIAN POSNANSKI 
News Writer 

In light of current political developments in the world and the need to apply religious val­ues to public life, Pope John XXIII's 1963 encyclical Pacem· en Terris deserves a second reading, according to Brian Hehir, Chaplain of Harvard University and guest lecturer last night for the Student Gov­ernment's ongoing lecture series on ethics in public life. 
Hehir, professor of the Prac­tice in Religion and Society in the Harvard Divinity School, said that the state of today's world demands that all people, not just Catholics, take another look at the encyclical. 
"It was a document out of due time," said Hehir. "A major shift has occurred since the time Pacem en Terris was written. We are now in a time that moves and continues to move away from a bipolar order." 
Written during the cold war and the Vatican II Council, the spark that started Pope John on the encyclical was the Cuban missile crisis. "He wanted to its variety of regimes, economic fluctuations, and similarities to the United States, Przeworski employed detailed questioning to get a uniform categorization of South American govern­ments, which often walk a fine line between "democracy" and "dictatorship." 
A specialized computer cod­ing program classified regimes based on the perceptions of av­erage citizens in those nations. Such categorization has simpli­fied research. 
"Intuitive understanding of what a regime type is, is wrong. Regime has no standard definition, but it is a continuous duration under a single ruling power-democratic or non­democratic," he said. 
With his results, Przeworski has surprised those subscribing to the· traditional view that democracy produces optimal economic growth. On the con­trary, he has found that the av­erage rates of growth per an-



YA GOTTA REGATTA 
Come enjoy the 1993 Fisher Regatta on Sundal, A]Jril18th. 
Races will begin at 11:00 a.m. Coach Lou Holtz will speak at the Regatta. 
Mandatory Captain's Meeting will be held on Thursday, April 15th in the Montgomery Theater. 
Anyone interested in entering a boat should contact Mike Ruane at 4-1939 for details. 
help the world get extricated from the nuclear threat," said Hehir. "He looked into the nu­clear abyss and was fright­ened." 
In the encyclical, the Pope calls for three things. He ar­gued that trust is the basis for international relations. He asked for deep cuts in weapons. And at a time when the United Nations still had little power, the Pope called for stronger international institutions of peacekeeping. 
The encyclical, though well read, had a limited effect on international politics. "The text was heard but was not heeded," said Hehir. "The text simply was too far ahead of what anybody thought they could do. It was a document that was admired. But it was not emulated." 
The breakdown of commu­nism, however, has drastically changed the world's political face. With the United States and the Soviet Union no longer facing off, there is a possibility of many nations sharing power. 
Hehir said the end of the cold 
war has eroded the West­
phalian order. Said Hehir, "It is num have been nearly identical in both democracies and dicta­torships. 
Przeworski found that while democracies tend to be less af­fected by economic crises, the opposite holds true for authori­tarian governments. 
"Dictatorial pressures tend to compound stagnation some­what, thus leading to more fre­quent changes of regimes," he said. 
Though such states have in­vestment upwards of 3 percent more than their democratic counterparts, "dictatorships are great at mobilizing savings but lousy at allocating them." 
Przeworski disagrees with previous contentions that democracies induce overcon­sumption and that dictatorships act overly in the interests of their leaders, thus inhibiting development. Citing another study, he stated that "Poverty produces coups, coups do not produce poverty." 
not simply that we are going through a change in power. You have to change it [the order] because the world doesn't fit anymore." 
The Treaty of Westphalia, a pact drawn to settle religious disputes in the 17th century, organized the Western world around sovereign states, with no state allowed to intervene in the affairs of another. It also separated church and state. But such a conception no longer holds, said Hehir. 
"The notion of the self-con­tained state has eroded," he said. 
Hehir said that religion plays a major part in how a nation governs. "How do you explain change unless you factor in re­ligion as a public force?" he asked. "You better have a con­ception of religion as a public element in the life of nations." 
To replace the Westphalian order Pacem en Terris pro­poses different ideas. It affirms an international community that precedes sovereign states while giving moral standing to the state. "Essentially what Pacem in Terris offers you," he said, "is . . . a moral document with political consequences." 
But the encyclical is not just an essay on world order. In chapter five, Pope John speaks to the church and its members' role in such an order. 
"After speaking on interna­
tional relations," Hehir said, 
"he speaks as Pope. Trying to 
make chapter five work might 
be harder today than it was in 
1963." 

Pacem en Terris, said Hehir, 
noticed the serious and growing 
gap between reason and faith. 
In church teaching, reason and 
faith are complementary. Hehir 
said that Catholics today poorly 
attend to the "Catholic idea," or 
the notion of applying religious 
values to public life. "The 
notion of part of what it means 
to have faith," he said, "is that . 
. . one can relate it to complex 
professional decisions. The 
meaning of faith has 
significance for politics, law, the 
arts, etc." 

Hehir worried that there is a 
growing inability among all 
people to relate values to a so­
phisticated, technical world. 

The lecture was Hehir's third trip to Notre Dame this year. Besides being an Associate at Harvard's Center for Interna­tional Affairs, Hehir is also a counselor for Social Policy at the U.S. Catholic Conference in Washington, DC. 
page 6 The Observer 
Friday, April 16, 1993 
things, Floan said. "The ques­about it, it would be difficult," ing with less-educated people more open-minded and will 
tion is not do we let gays serve Pattison said. "Personal feelings who tend to bring other preju­follow whatever law comes dices to their job, he said. "The from Washington. basic principles of leadership "The military is not a place apply. Take care of your people: • for social experiment," said Za­The men under your command, pata. If he orders the ban lifted, the women under your Clinton would be throwing the command and the gay people issue of homosexual acceptance under your command." to one of the most extreme or­
The ROTC brass are banking ganizations in the nation, ac­on the belief that their college­cording to O'Connor. But if it educated officers will be more can be done, it can be done by open to gays in the military the military, she said. 
than enlisted soldiers. As the military braces for a 


Gays 

U.S. military statistics from major storm, HOTC can rest 
1991 show that about 92 per­easy, as the effects on campus cent of all enlisted men had no will be light. education higher than high "I think that generally the rest school or a G.E.D. On the other of the country will see this as a 
hand, ninety percent of all offi­military issue more than cers held a Bachelor's or ad­HOTC," said DeWitt. "If people vanced degree. Pattison said accept it within the military, this indicates that officers -they would accept it as a fact of 
and HOTC students -tend to life in HOTC." 
The Department Of Music Presents 
Christine Rutledge & Darlene Catello In a faculty 
o/io[a and 1-{arpsicfwrd 1?,scita[ 
Performing 

'Bach's (jamb a Sonatas 
Sunday, April18, 1993,2:00 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
continued from page 1 
personal views only and not 
necessarily those of ROTC. 
DeWitt said that although 
ROTC would only be minimally 
affected if the ban is lifted, "I 
don't think I've come across 
anybody here who is totally 
comfortable with the idea." 
In fact, cadets and midship­
men appear badly split over the 
issue. Proponents of lifting the 
ban argue for the end of dis­
crimination and point to the 
past successes of several gay 
servicemen. 
"I don't see anything funda­
mentally non-military about 
homosexuality," said an Air 
Force ROTC cadet who asked 
not to be identified. "If every­
body is going to be held on the 
same standards of conduct, 
homosexuality shouldn't be an 
issue." 
Erik Floan, co-president of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, pointed to Joseph Steffan, a gay midshipman who rose high into the ranks at Annapolis before the Navy stripped him of his rank and denied him a degree just prior to graduation. 
But Pattison insisted perfor­
mance is not the issue. "I don't 
think there has been a question 
whether gays are capable of 
performing," he said. ROTC 
students who support the ban 
point to concerns about privacy, 
conflicts with a person's reli­
gious beliefs and unit cohesion. 
"I might have a problem showering next to a person ­whether he was gay or not ­who I might think was gay," said DeWitt. 
DeWitt said it is difficult to change the minds of those in the military. "If they did openly admit it, you might see some stereotypical behavior and peo­ple in the unit stereotyping them," he added. 
The greatest concerns arise when servicemen spend time in the field, according to Melinda Zapata, a junior Army HOTC cadet. They must spend many days together in communal living arrangements. 
More important is the ques­tion of unity, Zapata said. A gay infantryman who had feelings for another soldier in the unit might save one life over an­other, but "if the unit is going to work as a whole, every life has to be equal." 
But the military is capable of doing some extraordinary 

NEED HELP MOVING HOME ? 

MAIL BOXES ETC. 
will be ON CAMPUS to help you 
ship your things ! 
AT THE STEPAN COURTS : May 3-8 10 AM-5 PM May 13 -15 NOON -5 PM May 17 10 AM -3 PM ATTHELYONSCOURTS: May 5 -8 1 0 AM -5 PM 
• FREE PICKUP • Gall 277-6245 For Details 
And Dorm Schedule. 

in the military. The question is 
do we let them serve honestly." 
The stakes in the debate over the ban are high for gays and lesbians, and they hope it will lead to tolerance in society, said Floan. Just as the integration of blacks and women in the mili­tary preceded increased accep­tance of those groups in society, he hopes lifting the ban will have the same result for gays. 
Pattison conceded that lifting the ban on gays would not have a direct impact on the HOTC program. In classes or outside activities, it "doesn't make much difference who you're sleeping with." 
Students said the only time having a gay in a unit could be­come an issue is during summer camp or cruise, or, for Army cadets, weekend Battalion Field Training Exercises required once a semester, during which students sleep in pairs. "If someone was outwardly gay," said Zapata, "I can't see someone wanting to sleep with them." 
Pattison said it is difficult to gauge how the ROTC program would react to an openly homo­sexual student among its ranks. "If that person was very blatant could spill over where they don't belong." 
Opinions aside, the cadets and midshipmen said they un­derstand the place of the mili­tary within a society. "Whatever is decided by the President is what we'll do," said Margie O'Connor, a midshipman. "It's a job and what your boss tells you, you do." 
If the executive order is passed down, said Greg Wes­sels, a cadet in Army ROTC, "that's just going to become part of our doctrine and we're just going to have to make it work the best we can." 
Such talk should be expected from the future officers in the 
U.S. military. And while the is­sue might not affect ROTC di­rectly, Pattison does not down­play the importance of ensuring the cadets and midshipmen at Notre Dame and other schools are in line on this issue. 
Pattison said the task of the ROTC instructors is to prepare the cadets and midshipmen to enter the military and set an example for the non-commis­sioned officers, where the lead­ership expects the most prob­lems accepting gays. 
Future officers will be work-
With joy and Thanksgiving The Congregation ofHoly Cross and the families of Daniel Gerard Groody, CSC Christopher Paul johnson, CSC james Robert Martin, CSC Announce the ordination ofour brothers and sons for service to the people ofGod. Through the ancient Christian signs of the laying on ofhands and the prayer ofthe Church the Office ofPresbyter will be conferred by The Most Reverend Richard C. Hanifin, D. D., J C.L. Bishop ofthe Diocese ofColorado Springs, Colorado Saturday, the Seventeenth ofApril Nineteen hundred and ninety-three at one-thirty o'clock in the afternoon Sacred Heart Basilica University ofNotre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana Rev. Daniel G. Groody, CSC Rev. Christopher P. Johnson, esc Rev. James R. Martin, esc Basking Ridge, NJ Tacoma, WA Latrobe, PA AB, U. of Notre Dame AB, U. ofPonland AB, St. Edward's University M. Div., Jesuit School ofTheology M. Div., U. of Notre Dame M.T.S., Oblate School ofTheology  

Friday, April16, 1993 The Observer 



'87 alumnus Collins unveils newest novel 
By BILL ALBERTINI News Writer 
"This book is about a charac­ter who feels this distant event impinging upon him as he grows up, trying to figure out what he wants to do with his life," said author Michael Collins in describing the topic of his soon-to-be-published novel, "The Life and Times of a Tea Boy". 
The "distant event" is World War II, a war which had a strong impact on Irish life even though Ireland remained neu­tral, according to Collins. 
Collins, a 1987 graduate of Notre Dame and recipient of a 1991 creative writing award from the University, presented sections of "The Life and Times 
UNIVERSITY 
R~SUMf: 
, SERVICE 

• REsuMES • TEcHNicAl 
•CREATiVE WRiTiNq 
2 7 7--1 700 

locATEd off-cAMpus by UP MAll 
iN UNiVERSiTy CARdEN~ 
of a Tea Boy" at a fiction read­ing in Hayes-Healy yesterday. 
Collins read from his unpub­lished work instead of the ex­pected reading from his re­cently published collection of short stories, "The Man Who Dreamt of Lobsters". 
Collins explained that he had been reading from "The Man Who Dreamt of Lobsters" all last week and instead of reading from it again preferred to "test the waters" with his new novel. 
"You only have to be wary of writers who everybody likes," said William O'Rourke, director of the graduate program in Creative Writing at Notre Dame, introducing Collins. 
"In terms of American litera­ture, it's not necessarily the most fashionable," said O'Rourke, "and Michael happily has a kind of rare quality that he stirs as much dislike as lik­ing." 
"The Life and Times of a Tea Boy" is set "in Ireland -in Lim­erick, where I'm originally from -and it takes place from just after World War II until the fall of the Berlin Wall," said Collins. 
The main character, Micks, is growing up in the economically depressed Limerick. Collins described the name "Micks" as a pun on the stereotypical Irish nickname. 
"The whole thing is that he (Micks) has a sort of love rela­tionship with his mother," said Collins. The sections Collins also presented themes of religion and of Irish life in a definite historical context. 
The novel continues following Micks' gradual growth to adulthood and the "time of lu­nacy" when he finally goes mad after a time away from his mother. 
"The Life and Times of a Tea Boy" is the first novel which Collins will publish. "The Man Who Dreamt of Lobsters" was mostly made up '{)f stories which Collins wrote for his creative writing classes while in the graduate program here at Notre Dame, he said. 
Collins counted Professor O'Rourke, who taught some of his creative writing classes, as an influence, as well as late 19th century and early 20th century British writers such as Joseph Conrad and D.H. Lawrence. 
Collins majored in English, and did not take his first writing course until his senior year, he said. Collins also stated that he had no previous aspirations to becoming a writer until his first writing course. 
are not needed, and attendants worked with the event, in 1991, 
STORYTELLING AND READING 
can wear whatever they want. 150 students attended. In As in the past, dinner will be 1992, the number increased to

AT THE SNITE MUSEUM 
served at 7:30 p.m. The meal 250. McDermott is expecting
University of Notre Dame 
will be a traditional South Bend 300 students this year. NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
Seniors to hold alternate formal 
By SHANNON DeVERNA assistance of Father Tom banquet, said McDermott. Also, News Writer McDermott of Campus Ministry. two bands will be provided for McDermott described the continual dancing. Bughaus 
The Senior Informal will be dance as an alternative "for will play at the Informal for the held at St. Hedwig's Memorial those who don't have the money first time, accompanying Hall tonight at 7 p.m.. The to go to Chicago" for the Senior Dissfunktion, who played last dance is organized by a group Formal this weekend. He year. of off-campus students with the explained that all seniors, a:s McDermott said the Senior 
well as rectors and faculty, are Informal has been increasingly invited to tonight's event. Dates successful. The first year he 
For all ages, free, and open to the public 
Saturday, April 17, 199.3 at 10:.30 a.m. 
Spring and Rebirth: Youth and Beauty 

Reserved seats: $7. Students and senior citizen discounts 

Still think you know all there is to know 
are availahle Wed., Thu. and 

about Bookstore Basketball? 
Sun. Tickets are availahle at the LaFortune 

1. Which team was allowed to play with an illegal player 
in 1978? And why? 
Ticket Office. 

2. Who is the only person to play in 4 consecutive 
MasterCard and 
Bookstore men's finals? 
Visa orders call: 

3. Which current NFL quarterback once played for 
631-8128. Tequila White Lightning? 
Wed. April21 

4. True or false: Adrian Dant!ey was a Bookstore champ. 
-Sat. April 24

5. Bookstore Basketball has seen the likes of teams with: 
at 8:10pm
a.) blind players 
Sun. April 25 at 
b.) a player with no arms 

3:10pm c.) the Dean of Students 

ULIUS 







___ s 
by William Shakespeare 
WASHINGTON HALL Find out in: 
d.) all of the above 
Look Out For The Manhole Cover 
A History Of Notre Dame's Bookstore Basketball Tournament 
Available NOW in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
~---------...__,____, 
page 7 

Engineers to 
receive new software 
Special to The Observer 
Computer software with a commercial value of $4.7 million h~$ b(len given to the University of Notre Dame by Aries Technology Inc. of Lowell, Mass.; to enable civil, 
·· aerospace, and mechanical engineering students to create designs by computer. 
''% In addition, the softwarewill help students analyze designs for strength and (leflection and will eventually mill the modeled part. 
The state-of-the-art software package runs on engineering workstations and vvill be used in engineering computer laboratories and ¢lassrooms as early as the 
llext academic year, according to Billie SpencerJr.•• associate professor of civil engineering and ge­. ological sciences. Mechanic!> .of Solids. a 
.course taken each year byUO civil, aerospace, and tpechanical. (l,nginc:~ering 
sophomores;< and· 
. ~ngineering Graphics, with ~() rnc:~c~anical' ~ngineering ~l)phomores each year, areCc;:t two classes where ·· 
engine~ting s.~p.dents can initially expectto. encounter. the software. 
\. ''Computing i$ the lifeblood of ·much. of engiri~H1ring aCtivity;" Spencer said. "We .~ow have •·· computing .. 'resourees1comparable with · the top engineering schools ju the n~tion, and a working 
]tnowledge of this kind of ~:software is a skill employers are dying to get. Our students 
..wm .be tt:eyen .ll1ore 
marketable when. they 4 graduate." ;" Jqhq.. ,. Renaud, .Clark 
•· a;ssistall:t professor of aerospace and mechanical "f;lngin~~rirtg, ~grees. ..Thes~ .. ..~re. the tools .tmr students >'will be usin as engineers 
the er the work 


or e 

for $14.95 
1994 Senior Formal Committee 50 pages of the BEST TEAM Names from 1972-1992! '-·Over 

April20, 1993
50 photographs! >:·championship teams, award winners! >:·Fifteen 
Applications are still available at the Junior Class 
5'ears of the women's tournament! ''"Useless Bookstore trivia! ''·And 
Office (2ndjloor LaFortune) or Haggar Center 
More! 
Questions: Call Stacy Jones 634-4858 or Angie Fitzgibbon 284-5121 



Applications due April 20. 
------------~-~-~-­
page 8 The Observer 

FBI: Koresh stalling for more time 
WACO, Texas (AP) -Religious scholars have tried for centuries to decipher the Bible's Seven Seals promising the end of the world, so FBI officials said Thursday they're not expecting religious cult leader David Koresh to do it. 
"We have had so many stalling tactics over such a long period of time we are not that overly optimistic," said FBI spokesman Hichard Swensen. 
Koresh has been holed up with 95 followers inside a heavily armed compound for 47 days. Now he says he's prepared to end the standoff. 
But Koresh said he first must complete a manuscript that deciphers the Book of Revelation's Seven Seals, and no one knows how long that will take. 
Authorities have been in a standoff with Koresh since a Feb. 28 raid by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms erupted into a gunfight that left four agents dead and 16 injured. Koresh has said six cultists died. 
"We hope David gets his inspiration and finishes his manuscript overnight. We hope a lot of things," Swensen said. 
Swensen said Koresh won't receive the peace and quiet most writer's crave. 
"We will continue with the noises at night," he said. 
Those disturbing sounds that authorities have directed at the compound have included dentist drills, rabbits being slaughtered and thundering locomotives. 
Swensen seemed skeptical that Koresh was writing. 
"We have not talked to David since Tuesday morning," Swensen said. "We have no way of knowing whether he's sitting up there with a candle writing or doing what he normally does." 


Inmates release first hostage 
LUCASVILLE, Ohio (AP) ­Inmates barricaded at the state's maximum-security prison for five days released one of seven prison guard hostages Thursday night in a deal that let them air their complaints on a radio station. The body of an eighth hostage was found earlier Thursday. 
An inmate, identified only as George, said: " ... We are very oppressed, and we are very sick of it. We're not going to take this any more.... 
" ... We are still standing strong, and we will remain strong until we either negotiate this to our likings or they will kill us. We are prepared to die if need to he. and we hone it doesn't come to that." 
The inmates were prepared to release another hostage if they got live television time on WBNS-TV in Columbus on Fri­day morning, the inmate said. 
Prisons spokeswoman Sharron Kornegay said the broadcast would be permitted, but the station couldn't immediately confirm such plans Thursday night. 
In a rambling speech, the inmate also denied reports that the siege was racially motivated and apologized to the family of the dead prison guard hostage whose body was found in the prison yard earlier Thursday. 
The hostal!e release was de­scribed by an announcer for Portsmouth radio station WPAY as it happened liv{l in the prison yard of the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility, where 450 inmates have been barricaded since Sunday. 
Kornegay identified the hostage as Darrold R. Clark, 23, a guard since 1991. Clark was taken to a hospital in Portsmouth, about 10 miles south of Lucasville, where he was reported in stable condi­tion. 
Seven inmates have died since the siege began. six of them beaten to death on the first day of rioting. The cause of death of the seventh hasn't been released. 
~-~-~-----~ ~----­
Friday, April 16, 1993 


Spirituality measures God's presence in life 
By MICHAEL WORKMAN News Writer 
There are ways for Christians to measure God's presence in the world today, according to Rev. Patrick Heelan, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University. 
In order to "measure" God's presence, Heelan explained that a person could use a "quasi-laboratory" as if he was conducting a scientific experi­ment inside,himself. ln this , "laboratory" one can take part in experiments that are "techniques of spiritual dis· cernment." 
"This may sound like a weird proposal, like the reading of palms, or tea leaves, or chicken entrails. What I have in mind are prayerful tech­niques of a mystical caliber suitable for the ordinary person equipped with a minimum theological lan­guages, who tunes into 'spiritual senses.' taken to be, as it were, 'measures' of divine approbation or disapproba­tion," he said. 
····• These ways to measure God's presences can be ex­plained due to the fact "that ;tthere is a common philosophi­cally understood method un· derlying theology and natural 
science, and using that method we should be able to gain reli­able knowledge both of Nature, the subject matter of the natural sciences and of God. the subject matter of religion," according to Heelan. 
"The Christian measures found in communities today stem from ancient times," he explained. "They are a result of the promise of the Holy Spirit from Jesus in the Gospels of the New Testament." 
Heelan cited St. Ignatius Loyola's book "Spiritual Exer­cises" as an example of spiri­tual discernment. He explained how Ignatius wrote the book for the spiritual guidance of his clients, and how it was used throughout the Jesuit Order which he founded. 
"'Spiritual Exercises' are based on appropriating the narratives of the Gospels as if one were an actor in the gospel story and able to enter into conversation with the other actors in the story about particular decisions to be made or larger strategic life goals," he said. "With the scientific analogy in mind, we can speak of the 'Spiritual 
Exercises'  as  a  quasi­ 
laboratory  of  religious  
experience."  


,-\...J~~--~· ,.,728124
-?Turtle~Cree~~ ­
.t; 

Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
Allordable Student Housing 
.,()u're A §ore Winner­
when ,_.,()U Live At liit:k.()O' Villaae 
§ave S24-()!
Hurry ln. For a limited time on a one-year /ease. 
Efficiencies from only $250 
1-Bedrooms from only $265 
2-Bedrooms from only $325 
• 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service 
• 
Planned Activities 

• 
Free Aerobics 

• 
Close To Shopping 



What are you waiting !or? Call or stop by today and we11 show you why you can't lose at Hickory Village. 
272-1880 
+llCKORU 

DlLLAC]Efj 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 


---~--------------~---------~---~--------~~-~ -~-~ ~-~ 




Business 
Frida~ April 16,1993 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Ghilarducci receives honorable mention 
•NOTRE DAME, INDIANA-Theresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics at the Universityof Notre Dame; bas received an honorable mention in the 17th annual Professional and Scholarly Book Awards for her book ..Labor's Capital: The Economics·of Private Pensions." The Professional and Scholarly Book Awards are sponsored by the Association of American Publishers. which uses a PIU!.el of a indep.ep,d0ntjudges frow the publishing industry and the industrial, medical and scien:tific communities to select the winners from among 324 professional and scholarly nominations. Ghilarducci's book is the product of a research project, entitled "Labor's Capital: ·The Economics and Politics of Employer of Pensions," for which she was named a fellow of the Mary Ingraham Bunting Institute of Radclitl'e jp 1987. Ghilarduccijoined the Notte Dame faculty in 1983;> 

South Korea threatens trade war 
•wASHINGTON-South Korea has told the Clinton admin­istration that a proposal designed to open foreign markets to more U.S. goods could scuttle global trade talks and begin an international trade war, an official said Tht:lrsday. Kim Chul•su, South Korea's new minister of trade, industry and energy, said he delivered the message Wednesday during a meeting with U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor. During the meeting with Kim, Kantor stressed that the president's trade policy is for open rather than closed markets, which is consistent with the goals of the world trade talks, according to an administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. The minister als() saiq he told Kantor that despite liberalization under new President 
·Kim Young-sam, Seoul intends to continue barring import of foreign rice. 
Hasbro settles with FTC for $175,000 
•WASHINGTON-Federal regulators shot down an ad for the GI Joe Battle Copter Thursday as the nation's largest toy manufacturer agreed to pay $175,000 to settle charges it falsely claimed the chopper could fly. Hasbro Inc. of Pawtucket, R.I., did not admit to any false claims about the Battle Copter or another GI Joe toy mentioned in the Federal Trade Commission's complaint. But the company agreed to pay the $175.000 to settle the FTC's charge it made false advertising claims in violation of a 1978 consent decree, ih which the company paid $40,000 to settle another FTC complaint about its toy ads. In the latest case, the FTC charged that Hasbro Inc. and its advertising firm, Griffin Bacal Inc. of New York, produced a 1991 ad that falsely portrayed the Battle Copter as being able to "hover and fly in a sustained and directed manner." 
Reich warns vouth summer iobs mav be at risk 
•WASHINGTON-Labor Secretary Robert Reich said Thursday he has urged communities to begin expanding their youth summer jobs programs now, at the risk of having to "gear down if the worst happens" to President Clinton's stimulus package. Local officials said they realize Clinton's package is in political jeopardy but they are heeding the advice to lay the· groundwork for bigger jobs programs. Reich, a key architect of the administration's job training plans, said he was confident Senate Republicans would support thesummer jobs part of Clinton's $16.3 billion stimulus proposal. The Republicans are blocking passage of the stimulus package, which already has passed the House. The plan includes $1 billion to provide 683,000 summer jobs for disadvantage youths beyond what already is contained in the 1993 budget. 
page 9 


Using your Am Ex to fight hunger 
By BECKY BARNES 
Business Writer 
Every time you use your American Express Card be­tween now and April 30, you make a contribution to the fight against hunger. 
American Express and Share Our Strength (SOS), a Washing­ton D.C. non-profit organiza­tion, have teamed up to combat hunger with the "Million Meals" program. Promising to donate nine cents. the equivalent of one meal, for every transaction conducted with a student American Express Card, the corporation hopes to donate up to $90,000, or a million meals, to SOS, said Andy Seibert, senior manager in charge of student cards. 
"We wanted to do something nice for our card members and tackle these issues at the same time, said Seibert. 
Although the Million Meals program is the first of its kind directed towards student card holders, American Express frequently uses service-related promotions. Taking part in the campaign to raise funds to ren­ovate the Statue of Liberty, American Express raised $1 million. 
"American Express has al­ways been a leader in cause-re­lated marketing," said Seibert. 
This combination between "the corporate and the not-so­corporate" is important because it brings issues into everyday life, said Parker. "Fighting hunger involves everyone and should be a day to day activity," she said. 
SOS is a non-profit hunger relief organization specializing in creative means to feed the hungry, said Christine Parker, an SOS volunteer and a senior at George Washington Univer­sity. 
The organization asks cre­ative professionals to donate their skills instead of their money. In projects such as Taste of the Nation, held in ci­ties throughout the country, lo­cal chefs donate food and their cooking skills while the public pays a fee to take part in the tasting. These events have raised about three million dol­lars, said Parker. 
SOS also sells tickets to an annual Writers' Harvest, an event in which authors donate readings of their writing. "It's a wonderful event where writers and people can come together to hear good work," said Parker. 
Initiated last year. the project raised $43,000, she added. 
American Express sponsors both the Taste of the Nation and Writers' Harvest with SOS. "We like (SOS) so much because they are really innovative," said Seibert. 
So far, the response to the Million Meals program has been very positive, said Seibert. 
Pangborn senior Shannon Shea, said she thinks the pro­gram is a good idea. "I think that would convince me to use (my American Express Card) more often than my Visa, knowing it will contribute to a good cause." 
But Pasquerilla East senior Kristin was less enthusiastic. Although she thinks the pro­gram is a good idea, she still would choose to use a credit card that she doesn't need to pay back right away. 
NDCIBD explores Chilean internships 

By KATIE MURPHY 
Business Writer 
Over spring break the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development sent two students to Santiago, Chile, to explore internship possibilities and meet with business leaders. 
The council, composed of 120 students, was established four years ago at the urging of Uni­versity President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, to become more internationally aware, according to sophomore Jose Yanes, who traveled with council president Joe Rogers to Santiago. The council orga­nizes summer internships for Notre Dame students in the Pa­cific Rim, Europe, Mexico, Costa Rica, and South America, and also brings speakers to campus. 
"The core of our activities are the internships we give students over the summers," said Yanes. 
Currently, council members have the opportunity to partici-
Clinton undecided on new sales-tax 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House is trying to take the public's temperature on whether a national sales tax to finance President Clinton's health-care plan would enjoy public support or scorn. 
"I have made absolutely no decision" on a value-added tax, Clinton said Thursday, a day after top administration officials said such a levy is an option. But he further fueled specula­tion for such a tax, a kind of sales tax, by noting it enjoyed support from many in business and labor. 
The suggestion of a value­added tax has generated sharp divisions within the administra­tion. Some of Clinton's key ad­visers. led by Treasury Secre­tary Lloyd Bentsen, are arguing against it as too politically risky. 
Still, with the idea now launched as a possibility ­whether deliberately or inad­vertently -administration of­ficials were interested in gaug­ing the fallout. 
"About half the public right now believes it will be neces­sary to raise taxes for health care," said pollster Stan Greenberg, who does research for the White House and for the Democratic National Commit­tee. 
Greenberg said in an inter­view that support goes even higher when specific compo­nents of such a plan are men­tioned, such as "universal ac­cess," giving everyone access to health care. 
But, he added, "the specifics are unclear" right now on what kind of new taxes the public might accept. "They'd rather tax the insurance companies." 
Some political analysts were bewildered that the administra­tion selected the week income taxes are due to float such a trial balloon. 
"This is the day when Ameri­cans tend to focus anger on the tax system and how much they're paying," said Larry Sabato, a University of Virginia political scientist. 
Furthermore, Clinton's eco­nomic program already con­tains new proposed taxes -on large corporate and personal incomes and on energy use ­that remain untested before Congress. 
And his job-creating stimulus package remains snarled in a Senate Republican filibuster. Clinton on Thursday conceded he was now ready to embrace a smaller package to overcome the GOP objections. 
It all adds up to a lot of pro­posals swirling around, making the marshalling of support for a whole new kind of tax system a difficult job even for the most persuasive of politicians. 
A value-added tax is now in use in 50 countries around the world, including most ·of Eu­rope. The tax is levied at each stage of production and mar­keting. But it is ultimately paid by the buyer. 
The tax has a loyal if small following among U.S. politicians. But it also has a history of controversy. 
pate in forty different company programs around the world. 
The council began planning the recent trip to Chile early last semester. 
"We had it down to three countries, either Venezuela, Argentina, or Chile," said Yanes. 
Once the destination was re­solved, council members turned to alumni in Chile for help. 
"We had the names of alumni in Chile and we just started calling them. Some alumni are with a business or they know people there. We set up eleven interviews but once we got there we ended up with a total of fifteen meetings," said Yanes. 
The main purpose of the in­terviews was to explain the purpose of the council and try to create new internship oppor­tunities in Chile. Jn the process, however. much of their discus­sion turned to the state of Chile's economy and the current business climate, according to Yanes. 
"We definitely got into both topics. We really got to see how an economy like Chile has ben expanding after a dictatorship. Now all you see is construction everywhere. Everything is booming,"·said Yanes. 
Although many of the cur­rently established internships are more business-oriented, the council hopes to organize some more technical intern­ships in Chile. "One thing we are trying to push hard for are engineering internships," said Yanes. 
Past council delegations have traveled to Western Europe, Russia, Mexico, and Southeast Asia and the Pacific Rim. In the future, the council wants to establish more internships, perhaps in South Africa, said Yanes. 
oses bid for new· 

lig~~nce ,~> 
:·.;:::;::~=:::.:: 

trucks with that design esti.,. mated to still be on the road. The nation's biggest automaker. used the "sidesad9JI)'' design 
ftom 
W73-87; ;iiJMl . ..•. 

· Thompson gave no reason .· his threetpage order for deny· ing the new trial motioll$. nor did he explain his reason for upholdingthe damage award, 
The pntit GM ·moti cepted by Thompson to add to the otlicial brief portiqn of the case that oecurr(;)d when the court 
·reporterwas absent. · 
• GM said ip a statement Jt was "9isappointed'' by the ruling and probably would 
·appeal. 
Bob Cheeley. an attorney for the Moseley family, was in a meeting Thursday afternoon 
··t!I:::::=.:::~ and 9id not return a call seek~ .••• . . . advocates hav€' ing comment on the judge's ilrged the repa;U. of 4.7 million decision. 
~-­





Viewpoint 
page 10 
The Observer 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor.•••..•••Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor.•..•• Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters Is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/6840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Friday, April 16, 1993 



Baseball is truly America's game 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Paul Pearson's recent editorial in which he downplayed and even tried to dismiss the tradi­tion and sanctity of America's pastime, baseball. 
Baseball does "deserve to be our national compulsion." I can think of few things more American (except maybe hot dogs and Bruce Springsteen) than a father teaching his son to cateh with his first baseball mitt. I can remember skipping school with friends (and family) to go watch opening day at the Stadium. 
Indeed, my Dad felt it was important; he explained to the attendance officers at my high sehool via an absence note that "as family tradition mandates, we were in the Bronx cheering on the Yankees to an opening day victory." This sense of tra­dition cannot be denied. 
Memories return to me of childhood arguments with my friends about the Yankees and Mets, left unresolved since in baseball, unlike any other sport, these teams could never meet in the regular season. How many kids growing up didn't try to imitate the batting stances and pitching deliveries of their favorite players in a game of whiffieball? How many didn't play Little League or collect Topps baseball cards? 
Yet, you maintain that base­ball is "truly boring to watch" since it has "no shot clock or timer" and "maybe 10 minutes of exciting play." If this is seri­ously your assertion, than you are missing a great deal from the game. Excitement is watching a baserunner toy with an opposing pitcher before fi­nally swiping second. Excite­ment is fearing your team's victory is in jeopardy before watching the closer come out of the bullpen and mow down the enemy's final threat with nothing but fastballs. 
The fact that there is no time limit only adds exeitement since your team can win at any time during the game no matter what the lead is. How many of last year's playoff games were decided in the last inning? The fact remains that you cannot lose until you make 27 outs, not when some clock says the game is over. 
And speaking of playoffs. in no other sport does the regular season mean so much. In both hockey and basketball, more than half of the teams make the playoffs. Any team, lousy all season, can make the playoffs, get hot, and win the champi­onship. 
In baseball you know that if you don't finish atop the pack, it's golf until March. In fact, baseball playoffs have been the most exciting post-season venue in recent years. The hyped up Super Bowl continues to be a NFC blowout, last year's hockey finals were a sweep, and in basketball one team marched uncontested (except in the second round by the Knicks) to the finals. Anybody who watched last year's Atlanta­Pittsburgh or Atlanta-Toronto series cannot say that baseball is not an exciting sport. 
Please don't judge baseball on its portrayal by Hollywood (otherwise I'll have to mention Youngblood, The Last Boy Scout, and Wildcats.) Baseball movies can only hope to capture the essence of what is truly the greatest game in the world. In the meantime, I'll be watching Sportscenter until May 7, and then MSG and WPIX throughout the summer, as the Yankees prepare to capture first place in the American League East. Go Bombers! 
Kevin Cammarata 
Keenan Hall 
April7, 1993 

New room policy should be thrown out the door 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to express my complete and utter annoyance with the so-called improved "checking out" policy reeently issued by Student Affairs. The new policy is in no way, shape, or form in the best interest of the student body. 
According to the policy, the policy revisions "will reduee room condition charges; allow students more time for study and rest during the exam pe­riod, and provide for the faster refurbishing of the residence halls at year end." If the Uni­versity believes this reasoning is any where near accurate, it is sadly mistaken. 
First, I will address the issue of reduced room charges. How can the University expect that special inspectors will be in our best interest? These outside in­spectors are not nearly as fa­miliar with the facilities of eaeh individual dorm as are the Res­ident Assistants and Hectors, and are liable to charge stu­dents for things which are not necessarily student's faults. 
The new inspection procedure will undoubtedly prove timely, costly, and inefficient. Who will ultimately pay these inspectors putes over appropriate room charges." Obviously, Student Affairs has no idea the time and physical effort involved in dis­assembling a dorm room. I, as well as many students, do not have an entire day to spare for this process prior to April 25. 
A third issue, which the Uni­versity has obviously not fully researched, concerns storage. Many storage facilities offer summer storage for the time period of May 1 through September 1. Does the Univer­sity, then, expect us to have moved our things to storage prior to this date? And how many students have large trucks with which to transport these materials? 
It is my belief that the Uni­versity should allow students to disassemble rooms following completion of examinations. Any policy which suggests otherwise is only taking away time from our books, and, in many cases, adding unneces­sary stress and worry. 
In addition, when exams are eompleted, the possibility of re­ceiving help in the moving out process is greatly increased. Many parents and siblings are able to aid in this process if it is 


for countless hours of needless postponed to the very end of the inspection for which the school year, as it should be. Resident Assistants are paid? Lastly, threatening students The students. In essence, this with a $1 00 fine for not com­procedure will in no way pleting the preparation for the reduce overall charges. inspection process is absurd. I 
Second, and more impor­believe I can speak for the ma­tantly, it is ludicrous for the jority of the student body when University to think that by I say that the new policy calls making students clean their for a newer policy in the im­rooms out by April 25 they are mediate future. providing us "with more time Meg Garzelloni for study and rest during exam Lyons Hall week and a reduction in dis-April 7, 1993 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
W!U MR. OUKe l3t Ai-IV/3 AFTeR ~IGHT lOf'k3 005 ANlJ NIGH75 BI.JRIW IN 
8)FeeTOFIC&JIN[JSIW? 
"Men are always sincere. They change sincerities, that's all." 
Tristan Bernard 

Be a man/woman. Submit.: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Friday, April 16, 1993 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Apathetic abortion attitude exists at ND/SMC 
even pregnant!! They ran three lied to her and was going to pregnancy, that the abortion I challenge you to find me Dear Editor: tests at the pro-life center, all abort this 'unpregnant' woman clinic had exaggerated the age one, just one abortion clinic in 
I would like to comment on which came out negative, and as well. Like Denise, Vicki was of her pre-born baby in order to this country which will provideAllison Riga's letter to the these results were later grateful that pro-life counselors charge more money for the a pregnant woman, free of Observer on March 26 in which confirmed at a city health clinic. were there to save her from this abortion. And to top that off, charge, with food, housing,she unfairly characterizes pro­What does this mean? The victimization. the clinic refused to refund her clothing, help in continuing her life sidewalk counselors as clinic lied to her. They were I could go on and on telling the $600 cash she had given education, job training, and people who "harass" and going to abort this young you other unbelievable stories. them before she entered the other practical support if she scream "murderess" to women woman who wasn't even Erindira, an Hispanic operating room even though the chooses to give birth to her entering abortion clinics. In my pregnant!! A couple days later, woman,was already on the "services" paid for were never baby rather than have an years as counseling outside of when Denise went to confront operating table ready for the rendered. Erindira is not well to abortion. Look all you want, but these clinics, her descriptions the clinic, they told her that abortion when her sister, after do. It just goes to show you the you won't find one because couldn't be further from the they had no records of her ever speaking with pro-life "concern and care" these abortionists who purport to be truth. Many so-called "pro­coming in and that her story counselors,bravely entered and abortionists had for the plight of "pro-choice" do not help women choice" supporters would like was fabricated. convinced her to get up and this poor woman. who choose life because it does you to believe that pro-lifers are Many of you may think this leave the clinic. Following Sidewalk counselors... people not fatten their pocketbooks. the ones who are heartless and was simply an isolated incident. months of financial, material who harass and intimidate The over 3,000 pro-life crisis do not care about the welfare of It wasn't. Three months later, and emotional assistance from women? If you consider it pregnancy centers across this women. Consider the following we counseled Vicki, a young pro-lifers, Erindira gave birth to harassment and intimidation to country lovingly offer the stories and you be the judge. woman in her early thirties at a beautiful baby girl named offer a woman support, love, above-mentioned services 
A few years ago at a clinic the same clinic. That morning, Adriana. Assistance to Erindira, and encouragement when through private donations to where we frequently counsel Vicki had been "greatly whose baby girl is now over a facing a crisis situation, then save women and children from women, we talked to a young pressured" (Vicki's words) to year old, continues to this day. that assessment is correct. victimization and exploitationAfrican-American woman have an abortion after she was Erindira says that to choose life, Unlike abortionists, pro-lifers by the abortion industry. In named Denise who was going in told the results of her all she needed was someone to believe in eliminating the crisis conjunction with sidewalk for her scheduled abortion. She pregnancy test were positive. reach out just the way pro-lifers for the woman, and not her counselors, they have made all had been to the clinic earlier in Yet, after receiving another did. child. Contrary to what Ms. Rigo the difference for thousands the week for a pregnancy test pregnancy test with the help of Observer readers may also be and countless others would like and thousands of women from and after being told the results the pro-lifers, Vicki discovered interested to know that Erindira you to believe, pro-lifers are the all walks of life. were positive, she was that just like Denise, she was later discovered, once she had ones who really care and help Meanwhile, every Tuesday,"counseled to have an abortion" not pregnant. The clinic had decided to continue her out in any way possible. Wednesday, and Friday, little 
(Denise's words) by the trained ~~~~----r-----,------------------------------­
... babies are being killed at the 
1. •• 
..

'counselors' of the clinic. She • . . • t• ~· local abortion chamber literally
, . -~ ~ ..
had $300 cash in hand for the I , I #',",• under the shadow of the Golden 
• • # ~

abortion that morning. Dome. Are we the people of the We proceeded to tell her '• Notre Dame and St. Mary's
.., ' 

about the danger of patronizing I Communities going to remain the clinic as evidenced by the silent and apathetic as this many malpractice lawsuits greatest injustice takes placewhich exist against the doctors right under our very noses or 
who work there. We invited her are we going to take a step out 
to visit a pro-life crisis and help women make a choice pregnancy center to further that both they and their discuss her decision regarding children can live with? the abortion. There, she was 
.. Bill Keen 
• 0

told to her great surprise, she . ND/SMC Right to Life was not even in need of an "· ' \ Carroll Hall abortion because she wasn't April 13, 1993 

One way ticket from Dome Reality is louder than idealism 
ing out from the same position, "Boyz N the Hood" perhaps best
World to lnnsbruck, please! 
Dear Editor: in his words, that we are on a shows the cycle: once you are I am writing with the inten­level playing ground. The fact is in, it is almost impossible to get
for their general apathy 
tion of shedding a bit of light on that we are not, and we must out.
Dear Editor: towards the (really) important
Since arriving at ND in the controversy described in examine the situation at hand Affirmative action programs
issues of our time. 
Mr. Sheahan's recent letter to in this context to determine are not "degrading" to thoseAugust I have more than once Although the tone of 
been befuddled and stupefied haughtiness in their letter the editor concerning censor­what is fair and what is right. who benefit from them, rather, by the contents of the Observer indicates that they are full of ship in the Bookstore Basket­Let's not kid ourselves that they are opportunities for those ball Tournament. His letter ex­some idealistic kind of equality 
Viewpoint pages. themselves (probably after who work hard and show the 
plained that his submitted team is going to be achieved by al­promise to want to succeed,Take, for example, the fall consuming too many brews and 
issues that an name, "Ivory Side of the Dome", lowing a "free market" of social that we may come closer to an
contained brats at the corner pub) I, for 
had been censored while capitalistic enterprise. Accord­equal society by breaking thisObserver staff editorial on the most part, agreed with their 
"Beauty and the Beast" and indictment of the counterfeit "Ebony Side of the Dome" was ing to Mr. Sheahan's letter, the cyclical trap, On-campus black accepted, which he states programs of affirmative action groups should not be looked at
actual responses from real Domer Culture for lacking an 
people debating whether or not intellectual conscience. validates his theory that and quotas are said to be as some kind of exclusive soci­"Beaut & Brute" had the "...reverse-discrimination and a "misled" because government ety, but rather as people finding misunderstanding of the true identity and support through
paradigm modern relationship. But apparently not everyone should not do for groups what 
And then there was the L. nature of racial equality are they should do for themselves others with similar
enjoyed their letter as much as rampant in today's society." and because these programs backgrounds. You cannot tell.
Clifford Cheney episode where I since one Grace Hall resident students, faculty and (David Ring, April 8) was What Mr. Sheahan fails to are discriminatory towards me that whites in our predomi­
address are the crucial realities non-minorities. nantly white society need sup­
administrators alike took errant incensed enough to stand up for 
pot shots at the Observer of socio-economic status and Should people "help them­port groups of other white peo­
himself and his fellow ND 
editorial staff, Cliff and the Bill crusaders for life, liberty and discrimination in American so­selves" out of slavery? I realize ple to reaffirm their identity as of Rights instead of carefully truth at any price. And right ciety that necessitate the pro­that this is of course no longer whites. It simply does not work grams and plans of action dis­the situation, but prejudice is that way.
exposing the insanity of his ·next to his heroic defense of 
arguments and soundly counted in his letter. rampant in our country and I, too, do not pretend to know
Dome World was a sincere 
I am forced to recall a discus­most definitely favors the ma­about the situation of which Irebutting them (which, by the letter complaining about the 
sion in my American Govern­
way, I did in a letter that the recent choice for cheerleading jority white population. Should speak iln a first hand basis. I 
Observer editors chose not to coach... ment class two semesters ago, blacks "help themselves" when am white and am not discrimi­
print). during which race relations on­there are people in this country nated against in our society be­
Yes, a one-way ticket to 
Now the boys from NO's lnnsbruck, please! campus and in the country who still believe that blacks cause of my color. I have been lnnsbruck extension office were addressed. On the topic of should still be in chains, who given by birth an unfair advan­(William Partridge and William D.W. Belousek social integration, one student don pointy white hats and wave tageous position solely because McDonald, April 6) have stated that it seemed to him the Confederate flag? of the unequal structure of our
Graduate Student 
chastised ND undergraduates AprilS, 1993 that blacks would rather hang I admit that these are the ex­society, and it is my duty and 
out together and stay away tremes, but the mere fact of the duty of all of us to help level 
frorri whites, and that predom­their existence indicates to us the playing ground. as it will 
inantly black organizations on that there is a problem in this not level itself. 
campus exclude whites as well. society, and that the average
This student felt that if white amount of discrimination pre­Then perhaps, and only then 
people on this campus did the sent is enough to validate ac­the idealistic situation of which 
same thing, they would be la­tively addressing the problem. Mr. Sheahan speaks will be ap­
beled racist, and he did not see plicable to our lives. But for 
how allowing such exclusive­We cannot ignore these facts now, the "Ebony Side" stays, 
ness could perpetuate anything presented to us and set our­and the "Ivory Side" is nixed, as 
but inequality. selves up with idealistic rules of reality speaks louder than lofty
To this my professor replied equality that cannot apply to idealism. 
that the problem on hand is the world today. We cannot 
that this student and many of ignore the statistics that show Samantha Spencer 
us ignore reality and assume us that racism and poverty are Siegfried Hall 
that we are all somehow start-self-perpetuating. The movie April 12, 1993 


' 
' 
f 
,. 
Aprll16w18 




weekerrlcaletxlar 

y 
MUSIC 

EZ Ed and the Essentials, 9 p.m., Madison Oyster Bar. Jazz Festival, 8 p.m., Valparaiso University, $4. 
EVENTS 

Jolly's Comedy Club, 10 p.m., Holiday Inn, Warsaw. Big Band Dance, 8 p.m. to 12 a.m., Stepan Center. Folk Dance, 7:30p.m., Saint Mary's Clubhouse. 

y 
MUSIC 

Nazz Battle of the Bands, 6 p.m. to 12 a.m., Stepan Center. Earth Beat '93, 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., PNA Club, South Bend. Ez Ed and the Essentials, 9 p.m., Madison Oyster Bar. 
EVENTS 

Margie Gillis, solo dance, 8 p.m.,.O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, $3. South Bend Gem and Jewelry Show, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Century Center, St. Joseph St. 
s 
y 
MUSIC Faculty concert, chordist Darlene Catello and violist Christine utledge, 2 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. 
EVENTS 

Spanish Mass, 11:30 a.m., Pasquerllla East Chapel, celebrant Don McNeill. Fisher Regatta, 11 a.m., Saint Mary's Lake. Saint Ed's Charity Carnival, noon, Holy Cross Field. 

Cushing Auditorium Of Mice and Men, Friday and Saturday, 8 and 
10:30 p.m. 
Snlte 

Dracula, Friday, 7 and 9:45 p.m. 
Unlv. Park East Cop and A Half, 7:30 amd 9:30 p.m. The Crying Game, 7:15 and 9:30 The Crush, 7 and 9 p.m. A Few Good Men, 8 p.m. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3, 7 and 9:10 p.m. 
Unlv, Park West 
Adventures of Huck Finn, 7 and 9 :20 p.m. 
Scent of a Woman, 8 p.m. 
Jack the Bear, 7:20 and 9:25 p.m. 
---~-------~---------, 

By MATT CARBONE Assistant Accent Editor 

What would make hungover students stumble out of bed on a Sunday morning, knowing that in all likelihood they will end up immersed in water as cold as ice? The Seventh An­nual Fisher Regatta. 
This Sunday beginning at 11 a.m., hearty Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will plunge their boats and them­selves into the icebox that is Saint Mary's Lake. Some have hopes of winning the regatta, while the more realistic boaters have more modest goals of staying afloat, finishing the race and staying dry. 
The Fisher Regatta was be­gun in 1987 by a freshman named Jay Farrher who, ac­cording to Brother Ed Luther, rector of Fisher Hall, "thought Fisher's image needed to be upgraded." 
A native of Boston who had attended many regattas there, Farrher suggested that Fisher sponsor a version of these races at ND. Two weeks later, his idea was a reality. 
That year there were 14 boats; approximately 25 partic­ipants are expected this year. The number is approximate, said Ed Keener, Senior Chair­man of the Regatta, because "there are always people show­ing up at the last minute, which is just fine." 
Therein lies some of the Re­gatta's charm. There are those people who spend weeks imagining and poring over de­signs, then painstakingly con­structing a perfect nautical specimen. 
Then there are those, still feeling good from their Satur­day night revelling, who decide that they have nothing better to do than go boating in the freezing waters of Saint Mary's Lake. From all of this comes some boats that are quite inter­esting. 
Doug Vincent, Dillon Hall ju­nior and self-described "fanatic of the Regatta'," has been amazed at some of the designs in the past. "There have been some really wacky boats in the two years I have been here. I can't wait to see some of the crazy ones that people come up with this year." 
"One year, there was a boat whose frame was made of tree limbs," remembers Brother Ed. "It just fell apart -they went about two feet." 
Upperclassmen will remem­ber the houseboat built by St. Ed's Hall in 1991. For those who have forgotten, it was a double-decker monstrosity (complete with a trailing dog­house labeled "Howard") that drifted out into the lake, then proceeded to remain there for the entire afternoon. 
It was because of incidents like this one that some safety rules have been implemented. A boat can no longer be two decks, and can hold only four to six people. 
One other rule is that all boats must race. If you have ever witnessed a past Fisher Regatta, then you know that this will be a major obstacle for many of the prospective contes­tants. 
Another safety measure taken this year is the presence of the South Bend Hiver Hescue Squad, a group of men and women highly trained in water safety. The Squad will monitor the races and is completely in charge of water safety for the regatta. 
The Squad will have jet skis on hand in case of emergency, and will complemented by the services of members of the South Bend Fire Department. 
"Fortunately," said Brother Ed, "we haven't had any acci­dents." The River Hescue Squad was called in because as the race has grown, "there can be as many as 20 people in the water at one time," said Keener. "Prior to last year, there were only lifeguards present, and it was getting too big for them to handle." 
Those who are brave enough to take on this cold !read Antarctica cold] and smart or lucky enough to build a boat that actually lasts the whole afternoon of races, and also manages to win all of these races, will win trophies. 
These trophies will be awarded to the men's and women's hall winners; plaques will go to the most original boat and the winner of the clubs and organization division. 
Dessert will be provided free of charge during the afternoon by ND Food Services. The first heat is at 11 a.m. on Sunday so there is still plenty of time to build a boat for the regatta. 

St. Ed's to hold carnival tor charity 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
Moonwalks, dunking tanks and raffies -oh my! 
This Saturday, St. Edward's Hall will welcome spring with the fifth annual St. Ed's Carnival For Charity. 
John Fry, this year's co-chair of the event, said he is hoping for an "awesome turnout," with hopes of topping the $1300 collected at the carnival last year. 
'Tve seen a lot of progression in the carnival since I've been here," Fry explained.This year there will be a total of 14 booths, sponsored by a variety of campus organizations as well as dorms. 
"Our goal is to eventually expand to all groups," he said. "This way the interest level will be high for all kinds of students." 
Some campus organizations participating in this year's carnival are the Knights of Columbus, sponsoring the basketball toss booth, and the Asian American Association, hosting the "Wheel of Fortune." R.O.T.C will also provide two booth. 
All proceeds from the carnival go directly to charity. The $1~00 from last year was split and awarded to Sex Offense Services and the Boys and Girls Club. "In past years, the money has gone to national organizations," Fry said. "Last year I proposed that we donate. the funds to local organizations." 
Not only will social services receive the proceeds of the carnival, but some will experi­ence the fun as well. Kathleen Hitselberger, a senior from Pasquerilla East, will bring children from the Center For The Homeless to enjoy the carnival. 
"Having the kids there will really make it feel like a community event," Fry said. "We're bonding with the community as well as servicing it." 
St. Ed's Carnival will take place from 12 to 6 
p.m. at Holy Cross Field, next to the Fisher Regatta. Troop ND will perform at 2 p.m. 




Celebrations of spring 
An Tostal '93 provides students with loud, music and lun 
By MATT CARBONE 
Assistant Accent Editor 
It's mud, it's free food, it's acting stupid for no particular reason. It's the 26th Annual An Tostal, which will take place April 20-25. 
Begun in 1968 as a way for students to celebrate the long-awaited arrival of spring, as well as to provide an opportu­nity. for students to blow ofT some steam before the pressure of finals sets in, An Tostal (Gaelic for "festival") has evolved into one of the most hollowed traditions at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Much planning has gone into this year's edition of the festival. Since the beginning of the year, many members of the Student Union Board (SUB) have been toiling ceaselessly with one goal in mind: that students have a good time next week. 
SUB has spent almost $35,000 on An Tostal -$10,000 budgeted at the beginning of the year, as well as their $25,000 cut of the proceeds from "The Shirt." 
All of this time, effort and money shows in the broad array of free events, games, food and performers which will be provided at this year's An Tostal. 
There promises to be at least a few events which will appeal to every student's taste. Among the more interesting and noteworthy of these events (weekday titles provided by the An Tostal Committee): 
April 20 -Alternative Tuesday 
•Rasta 
Rafiki, library green of SMC, 9­11 p.m. -reggae and Saint Mary's-an interesting combination. 

•Jello 
Pits, Angela Hall, 4-8 p.m. -in which you push people you don't like into the wood box filled with an inch of jell, then proceed to bang your shins against the wood sides until they are a grotesque shade of black and blue. 


The An Tostal program describes the pits as "new and improved" -we'll see. 
April 21 -Whoopie Wednesday 
•Tom 
DeLuca, DeBartolo Auditorium, 7 p.m. -the $1 ticket to see this master hypnotist is well worth the price. 

Last year, he had a friend of mine pre­tend to breast feed his baby onstage, while hundreds of amazed and sickened audience members watched. Warning: not for the impressionable (this means you, Gary Bechtold). 

• 
"The Distinguished Gentleman," Cushing Auditorium, 7:30 and 10:30 


p.m. 
-this recent comedy starring Eddie Murphy is provided free of charge. 

•"High Strike," Fieldhouse Mall, 12-5 

p.m. 
-SUB has obtained one of those sledgehammer/try to ring the bell contraptions for this year's An Tostal. 


If you feel like embarrassing yourself/impressing others (whatever your physical condition may be), stop by and give it a try. 
•"Speed 
Pitch," Fieldhouse Mall, 12-5 p.m.. -SUB will have a radar gun on hand to clock your fastball. This thing may burst the bubbles of many would-be Dwight Goodens. 

April22-Thirsty Thursday 

•Mark 
Nizer, Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center, 7 p.m. -this comedian and juggler will perform for students free of charge. 

•"A 
Few Good Men," Cushing Auditorium, 7:30 and 10:30 p.m. -this excellent drama starring Tom Cruise, Demi Moor-e and Jack Nicholson will also be free. 


Don't miss one of the best movies to have come out in years, and the inspira­tion behind the Bookstore team name "'I want the ball!' 'You can't handle the ball!"' 
•Ugliest Man on Campus, Fieldhouse Mall, 3-6 p.m. -for one penny a vote, with all proceeds going to the Logan Center, you can get back at any guy you want, with the Ugly Man to be crowned at the finals of Bookstore Basketball. 
•Campus Bands, Fieldhouse Mall, 4-9 
p.m. -some of the best and brightest musical talent from both campuses will be on display all afternoon long. If it doesn't rain, it will be a miracle. 
April 23 -Frivolous Friday 
•AI 
Franken, Stepan Center, 8 p.m. ­this star of Saturday Night Live (Stuart Smalley, Sen. Paul Simon, Mobile One Uplink Unit) will give a performance as well as discuss his experiences at SNL. Admission is $3. 

•Pizza 
Eating Contest, in front of the Knights of Columbus, 4-5:30 p.m. -in which you try to stuff one large Domino's pizza in your face as fast as you can, without the use of your hands. 


My roommate and I cheated at this last year, and we still lost to some fat guy from Pangborn, so know that the competition will be stiff. 
Also, don't do this around anyone you're trying to impress -you're not at your very appealing when you've got pepperoni, sauce and saliva smeared all over your face. 
•"Creature from the Black Lagoon" and "The Rocky Horror Picture Show," outside on the Stepan basketball courts, 
11:30 p.m.-"Creature" is in 3-D, and "Rocky Horror" has Tim Curry in sexy lingerie, so what more could you ask for? 
NAZZ battle fthe bands to 


showca ecgmpus musicians 
··:" . · : · · .. · ···

<~X\:i.:::t·=·., 


By MATT CARBONE 
Assistant Accent Editor 
First, let's get ot1e thing str11ight: "NAZZ" means nothing~ and even if it did, no one can remember what it meant in the first place. It doesn't stand for anything, it isn't short for anything~ it has no me9,rdng, .. . · 
But for some 'reason known to no one, NAZZ is the name of the annual campus battle of the bands contest. It will take place April Stepan Center from.6­
12p m ....., · =··=··.==:J::v:::,:Jh::~.,;,,;_,,,L.: ...,_.,.,.,.,.,.,,... 
. • • .. . .. . •• •.•. ··•·••••••••·• ;·...•.•••....•.•••••••••.,,.••••• ,•.•••J••.•••••... 
Begun inl987, NA.ZZ has p~en a showcase of some of the hestand weirdest music which Notre Dame and Saint Mari~studeP.tsha\1~ to offer. 
This year, 24 bands will compet~ for the first ptite. a giftcertificate to a music goods store;· and more impo~tantl~, the tit·· "best 
kand. . ·.·;Pi . ;::;,P:rn: ~dmission is.· f~e.e, and free :t< Partieipatbig•on e fWpqp¢m:n, pretzels and' other assorte the big~natiie ban on campus," snacks will be serveq in Stepan. according to ijethany dle, the future coUJ::iesy of sua. Music and Entertain Comm~~ioner ' 
_:_·.·.·.·.·.•·.r.•_.·.·•...•.··••.••:_.·..•.•.•... 

at the St · 1:1 atd i(St.lB).· ·••·•··· .••,..••.;._ i..•.·•.·.·.'.·.·•.•_.·.• •.1..i.•.:.i.lf_J.,_t'_i_i_•_;•., i#_.,, •
.··. _. •. ,., ..• ,, ··• •.\ •.;i( ··•;•;!,;..-·:·'MiN/ 

===:::::::::;::~:::::.:::::~=;:­

oF The ~At,)t>sj
. 
, 

·Among these are Chisei!tBughaus, The Sister Chain, Mr. Head and Dissfunktion. 
It was at last year's NAZZ that the members oCDissfunktion got their ~itreers off to a flying start.. As its lead singer urged the audience to "Get on up," many dancers thronged to the front of the stage, making Dissfunktion the cle;;tr winner. ··•·• 
Iaa~h band will have l5 minutes in 
which it canperform whatever it chooses. There will be three judges ­t~o student~ (Julie ,Simmons, the present Mn~lt;; and Entertainment Commissioner at SUB. and Dan Langrill, the student manager of WVFI} and philosophy professor Dean Zimmerman. AU performing hands w~re choseno ·a· 1}.-st comt~,flrst serve basis, Wbich should make for an interesting and 
eclectic musical evening. 
The first pat1d will begit1 playing at 6 
April 24 -Psychedelic Saturday 
•Chariot Race, White Field, 10:30 a.m. -each dorm builds a chariot, then slogs and stumbles through the mud pits made by SUB. If you come to participate or to watch, plan on getting dirty. 
•Mud Volleyball, White Field, 9:30­
10:30 a.m. -mud volleyball courts are · open to anyone who wants to play. 
•Blues 
Traveler concert, Stepan Center, 8 p.m. -tickets for the An Tostal concert are $5, and are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

April 25 -Suddenly It's Sunday 

•Evian 
Spikefest Finals, Stepan Courts, 11 a.m. -the champion of the week-long volleyball tournament will be crowned here. 

•Basketball 
All-Star Game, Stepan Courts, 3 p.m. -come watch people play basketball better than you can ever hope to in you lifetime. 

•Men's 
Bookstore Finals, Stepan Courts, 4 p.m. -This is what over 600 teams' worth of whining, uncalled fouls and people taking some pickup basketball games way too seriously comes down to -the championship game of Bookstore Basketball, and the tradi­tional ending to An Tostal. 


__,.,­
---,. 
-
.sr
,, 

-~~~-----·-­
page 14 Frida~ April 16,1993 
AIDS threatens all God's children 
Mrs. Miniver is the film ver­
the South Bend Tribune Should Christians be so pure sion of a novel about the Battle protesting the lad coming out of that they can't stand to hear of of Britain. In the final scene of Father Robert Griffin the closet in "Better and the crisis faced by a lad upon the movie Mrs. Miniver's Worse," and those other letters discovering he is gay. Can ho­neighbors and her family are protesting the inclusion of a mosexual love between con­gathered for worship in the vil­pair of gay lovers in an article senting adults ever turn out to lage church that has been Bellers loa Bone(y 9od on sweethearts for Valentine's be stronger than Death? severely damaged by the Day. bombings. Under a roof with Shame on the hate-filled I cannot defend unions which gaping holes that let in the sky, fear-filled Christians who feei my Church opposes; but is itbelong to an endangered I didn't try to come on strong
they appropriately recite the they're doing a service to the against faith or morals for a
species which disappears sud­as a catcher in the rye, in town
91st Psalm. Gospel by trashing the stranger, Catholic to believe that love can
denly. Soon, the human race to save this man in the
"He who dwells in the secret of whom they want to believe sicken on darkness until finally
may start to feel as beleaguered promised land from falling off a 
place of the Most High shall the worst. it becomes lethal? 
as Mrs. Miniver's neighbors, cliff. I could have said: "If you 
abide under the shadow of the They'd do more for their souls Is AIDS the way God
praying the 91st Psalm, asking really believed that God is Love, 
Almighty...You shall not be if they left the churches and punishes gays who fall in love?
to be delivered from the pesti­you'd still be a Catholic making 
afraid of the terror by night, discovered the real world Maybe AIDS is the punishment
lence that comes in the noon­your Easter duty." 
nor of the arrow that flies by where God's people live, trying the human race has brought on
day. Yet if Barney, as an AIDS-vic­
day... No evil shall befall you, to transcend the pain the bigots itself by insisting on gay love as
Shortly before spring break, I tim beginning his torture, can
nor shall any plague come near cause them. a sickness occurring only
got a phone call from Barney, confidently say, "God is Love"
your dwelling. For lie shall give For example: the Jews who among certain people. 
who graduated from N.D. in the maybe he's closer to the eros~
His angels charge over you, to have been mankind's timeless
early Seventies, announcing than we are. Still, I would love
keep you in all your ways ... " scapegoat; the Catholics whom "Greater love no one has than
that he is now a PLWA suffering to say Mass for him, and give --they accuse of being slaves of this," said Jesus, "that he lay
from lymphatic cancer. him Communion, after he has
In 1985, when I spent my the antiChrist; the Blacks, down his life for his friend."
I said: "Are you still a made a sacramental confession. 
12th summer as a parish priest destined in God's plan, so the The AIDS-crisis has caused
Catholic?" It was a way of let­While wondering how to walk
in Greenwich Village, AIDS was rednecks say, to be hewers of suffering which has shown us
ting the lad know that I want Barney in from the cold, I didn't 
already a full-fledged plague. wood and drawers of water; how grace-filled gay love can
him home before dark. notice .what's been happening
Only God could give you a ball and the gays, whom they be; for in the faces of Persons
"Of course not," he said, lately m the comic strip "For
park figure of the number of condemn as untouchables. Living With AIDS, their nurses
"though I'm very religious. Will Better or Worse." One
gays who regularly attended have been startled to see the 
you come to see me when adolescent has been telling
Mass at St. Joseph's, most of They might be wise to re­likeness of Christ. 
you're in Houston with the Glee another that he believes himself 
them affected with AIDS. member that the Saviour was I'm not promoting strange
Club on their spring tour?" I to be homosexual. 
Since it was the custom in hung on the Cross as an outlaw doctrine which could embarrass
promised that I would and I
that parish for the Mass cele­because to the Romans, he was the Pope. But maybe the fear
kept that promise. I've seen not even one panel
brant to receive Communion a troublesome Jew undeserving we have of white-washing evil
of this sequence in which a
last, I took my turn drinking the of justice; and to the high keeps us from seeing how very
At age 41, Barney's hair has young teenager "comes out" to
wine that had been passed from priests of the Temple, he was a dear to Him our gay siblings
already fallen out from the his pal; yet I'm willing to bet,
lip to lip. maverick who upset their tradi­are.
chemotherapy. We had a good from what I've heard, that it
For obvious reasons, I relied tions with his honesty and
time, remembering the old was touchingly, tenderly, and
on the promises in Psalm 91 to charity. Sharing a crisis that threatens
days. He explained that instead tastefully done; and he who
keep away fear as I received AIDS is a problem, but it is all God's children, maybe gays
of remaining a Catholic, he was speaks ill of it should be
the Sacrament which I had just not the enemy. Our enemy is and straights can learn to take
window-shopping on the ashamed.
administered to Christ's flock. the Prince of Darkness, who turns leading each other in
world's religions and he has But on the Easter weekend, I
Nowadays, you don't have to opposes the God of love with his from the cold. 
concluded that God is Love.. saw the letters to the Editor in
be gay, or live in the Village, to hatred. 
Lectures in Romanticism James Soderholm 
University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
"Surrender Dorothy: ·Tintern Abbey' and the Dysfunction of Criticism at the Present Time" 

Friday, April 16 
3:30 p.m. 

224 DeBartolo 
-


HOW MRHY COLlfGf GltRDUAUS 
CAH GH IHTO ATOYOTA? 
WITH THf TOYOTA CLASS OF 'g] HHAIL FIHAHCIHG PHOGHAH, JUST ABOUT ALL OF THfH. 
special finance rates for you. Rates with no money down. And a 90-day deferred payment~ What's more, the Toyota Retail Financing Program is available a year after and up to six months before you actually graduate. And you can finance any new Toyota -the Paseo shown here, or aCorolla, Tercel, 4x4, whatever moves you. Should you want to lease your new Toyota, an attractive leasing program is also available. For complete information and qualification requirements, as well as the location of your nearest Toyota dealer, just calll-800-5-COLLEGE. The car or truck ofyour dreams, and financing you won't lose sleep over. Bet you can really get into that. 

"/love whaJ you do for IIU1." 


®TOYOTA

See Your Local Toyota Dealer. 
-----------------~~---~­
Friday, April 16, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Anderson gets 2,000th win in ninth inning 
DETROIT (AP) -Manager Sparky Anderson of the Detroit Tigers got his 2,000th victory Thursday when Chad Kreuter's pinch-hit double in the bottom of the ninth inning drove in Skeeter Barnes for a 3-2 victory over the Oakland Athletics. 
Anderson, who won his first game April 6, 1970 when Cincinnati beat Montreal, became only the seventh manager in baseball to win 2,000 games. He is 10 behind Leo Durocher, who is sixth on the list of baseball's winningest managers with 2,010. 
Rob Deer singled to start the Detroit rally. Pinch runner Gary Thurman stole second and 
moved  to  third  on  Mickey  
Tettleton's  ground  out  to  
second.  

Blue Jays 3, Mariners 1 
Joe Carter drove in three runs with a solo homer and a two­run single, giving the Toronto Blue Jays a 3-1 victory over the Seattle Mariners. 
Carter, who leads the major leagues with 12 runs batted in, gave Toronto a 1-0 lead in the fourth inning with his third home run of the season, a drive that hit the cement facing of the second deck in left field at SkyDome. 
He added a two-out, two-run single in the fifth. 
Todd Stottlemyre (2-0) got the win, allowing five hits in eight innings. Duane Ward pitched a perfect ninth, striking out two batters and getting his fifth save in as many opportunities. 

Red Sox 4, Indians 3, (13) 
Jeff Richardson, a backup infielder acquired three days before the season, doubled home the winning run in Boston's two-run 13th inning. 
Boston is off to its best start in 41 years and leads the AL East with a 7-2 record after sweeping its second series of the season. 
Cleveland had taken a 3-2 lead off Paul Quantrill (1-0) in the top of the 13th. Eric Plunk (1-1) retired all seven batters he faced until the 13th. Carlos Quintana and Scott Cooper singled, and Bob Melvin hit a sacrifice fly to tie the game. 
Mo Vaughn and Andre Dawson, homered for the Red Sox. Dawson's made him the 25th player in history to reach the 400 plateau. 

Royals 5, Yankees 4 
Brian McRae, who saved at least two runs with a superb defensive play, had an RBI infield hit to cap a five-run ninth inning. 
Kansas City trailed 4-0 after eight and had only three hits off Yankees starter Jimmy Key before the Royals rallied for only their second win in nine games. 
Steve Farr (0-1), the second of three Yankees relievers in the ninth, took the loss. Frank DiPino (1-0) got the victory with two innings of relief. 

Nolan Ryan faces knee surgery 
ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) -his 27th and final season, was 
Nolan Ryan, baseball's all-time scheduled to undergo surgery 
strikeout king who is playing today to repair a torn cartilage in his right knee. Ryan is expected to miss between two and five weeks, the Texas Rangers said. 
The 46-year-old righthander said he felt pain in his knee during a workout on Monday but decided to pitch against Baltimore on Wednesday night because it was feeling better. He felt discomfort during his warmup and was bothered by pain during the start in which he lost 6-5 to the Orioles. 
Ryan allowed eight hits and six runs in four innings and was late covering first base on a routine grounder as he suffered his 288th major league loss. The rain and cold made it difficult for pitchers and fielders during the game. 
Ryan was not available for 
Nolan Ryan is expected to miss 

comment after the game, not 
two to five weeks due to surgery 

his normal practice after a 
on cartilage in his right knee. 

victory or a loss. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
died with Jesus. I am not angry , 50,000,000 Babies For appt. • 272·0691 or see Off· Have 6 grad. tix 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 just disappointed. Campus Housing office. Best offer in LaFortune Student Center NOTICES Please call Tony with info x3603 Child care provider needed in my Kris -273 -9644 QUALITY COPIES Granger home. as low as 3¢ each LOST 20-25 hrs/wk. now through June 8 FOR SALE Help! Need One NO Grad Tix! OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK TYPING 256-6657 & 30-35 hrs/wk through summer. Will PAY$$$ Call Jeannie LOST-Pair of Brown Topsiders on Call 271-1638 ALLSTATE 284-5419 Hey Pittsburghersl Kim and Meg rock the world! Steppan Courts April 1, if found call 
X4600 Need mature part time sitter CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU I have a huge family & they all We need someone to organize the Fortune 500 Company continuing to for 11 mo. old. Days & occas­QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE helped pay for NO. Pleasell need luggage truck. If you need the truck, expand internationally. Seeking sional evenings. Mom's work COST-CUTTING DISCOUNTS: extra grad tix!l Deanna @2476 call Diane at 4828 persons interested in becoming WANTED schedule is flexible. Miami Trails integral players in the growth of this area, . GOOD STUDENT 1 way tick. to SF from SB on Antostal, Regatta, SYR's ..... business. Regions targeted include SUMMER JOBS south Fellows St. PREFERRED DRIVER 5/7. $270/b.o. Call x4874. Europe. S. and Latin America, and Call291-7286, leave msg. ECONOMY CAR Let us handle your weekend Pacific Rim. After 3 pm, call257-ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS AIR BAG CUBS vs. PHILLIES party needs with a party sub 5283. or 683-3195 for more PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS Going to grad school at U of Miami ANTI-LOCK BRAKES from information. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS or living in area? Need roommates· I have 30 tickets for Sunday's Cubs SUBWAY 
NEAR LAKE PLACID call Mary 271-7288 JOHN DAVENPORT,ChFC game Hey German Club members !! 289-1993 $20 incl. ticket & bus 6 ft. Cold Cut Combo-Please join us one last time for CALL 1-800-786-8373. PRO TENNIS RACQUET & VCR, Leaves 1 0 am from Keenan only $34.95 with mention of ad some German food at Hans Haus CALL8562 OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS on Thursday, April 22nd. We'll meet INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT-Game at 1:20 Ask about our party platters at Library Circle at 6:00 and be on Retu'rn by 7 our way. Please call Colleen at Make money teaching basic FOR RENT NO Ski Team T-Shirts SR 23 & IRONWOOD x2866 with R.S.V.P. conversational English abroad. Only $1011 Call John at x1160 call Dave at x3272 277-7744 
Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000-SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 I am a Ugandan student aged 20 $4,000+ per month. Many provide bdrms, close to campus, safe SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD years by the name of Kakimda room & board + other benefits! No neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all 1-WY TCKT MAY 17 PERSONAL BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF Robert. and I want some pen previous training or teaching utilities. Call Monica S. BND to SAN JOSE TOURNAMENT ON SAT. MAY 8 friends from USA. certificate required. For International 232-2794. $200 obo Julie x2762 OPEN TO ALL KAKIMDA ROBERT Employment program, call the Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal 
c/o GN SEBUFU International Employment Group: 2 BDRM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL 91 GEO Storm GSI, 17Kmi, 5 spd, Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological ·PUBLIC SIGN UPS AT THE REDO BARN (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL A/C, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277-Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN PRO SHOP BEHIND THE ROCK PO BOX 1610 YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277-3956. 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. MASAKA ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 4155. -STUDENTS SIGN UP AT THE UGANDA DESK for sale-25$. mike @ LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE 
-fisheries. Earn $600+/week in OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT! x2148 ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE ­Dissertations, Theses. canneries or $4000+/month on 1 Br w/loft, 2 Bth, fireplace, Give yourself, your baby and us a · -GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS Term Papers fishing boats. Free transportation! WID, garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill LIVING OFF-CAMPUS? brighter future! We are a loving, Word Works Typing Service Room & Board! Over 8000 or Caroline at secure, Catholic, Caucasian couple. 277-7406 openings. No experience. 317-297-8485. NEED FURNITURE? Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616) 
necessary. Male or Female. For WE HAVE IT ALL!! 629-9037 TO THE ONE WHO HELPED ME Tickets on sale now for the Farley employment program call 1-206-Turtle Creek townhouse CALL 273-2180 FIND MY RING (AND A LITTLE Hall Players' production of 545-4155 ext.A5584 6/1-mid-Aug. FAITH, TOO) ... THANKS ... DIDI 
. 
Furnished -$400/mo COMPUTER PACKAGE -Are you interested in living in A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE at If anyone is planning on working in Matt 634-3332. DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See LaFortune Info Desk for $4. Hilton Head this summer and needs IBMcmpat. w/ 20MHD,Epson prnt, Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon ·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&& Shows April15, 16. & 17. roommates to help pay for rent, call BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES CGA, 5.25 ld,sottware +dcmnts. lip @ 271-1938. 
Kelly @4121. FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. disks,+more!$400.00,ngtble.273-HEY PW OFF-CAMPUS 219-291-7153. 2826. SENIORS ..... 
!!I SENIORS Ill to SUBLEASE your house/apt. for Need Ride to Tampa Bay Seniors who are conducting service SUMMER:3-5 people,prel. near SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM FOR SALE Area. Call Chris x4045 ITS SENIOR SLIDE SHOW TIME work next year should sign up for campus-call Samx4842 HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. BED, DESK, CHEST OF AGAIN AND I NEED YOUR the VOLUNTEER send-off. GREAT RATESI AVAIL. DRAWERS, LAMPS, COUCH, Needed: Part-time sitter in our PHOTOS .... Saturday, May 15. Please sign-up SUNSET MATTRESS FACTORY NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306 RECLINERS, CHAIRS, ETC. VERY home for 4 mo. boy. MWF 
at the CSC between April15-29. LOW PRICES-MUST SELL! Call 273-9512 if very, very BY FRIDAY .... NEEDS PART-TIME SALES HELP. SUBLET: 2 bedrm turtle creek 273-2699-DARIN interested. APPLY IN PERSON INDIAN RIDGE townhse: Javier 634-3686 I HAVE TO HAVE THEM TURNED PLAZA. Cathedral ceiling and open living INTO SLIDES ... 
ILOST & FOUND I ?????????????????? areas in this new 1350 sq.lt., 3 Adopt: we are truly loving couple 
COUNSELORS, summer camp for ARE YOU STAYING AT bedroom, 2 bath ranch. Just 3 who can bring love and happiness SO THERE ARE NO EXTENSIONS LOST (still...): Pair of gold clip-on developmentally disabled, June 12-N.D. FOR THE SUMMER? blocks east of NO campus and built to your white newborn. We offer THIS YEAR .... earrings on Friday, 3/26, between Aug 21, Orlando, FL (407) 889-Sublease at by CRESCENT HOMES. financial security and a great future Zahm and the beach near the boat 8088. TURTLE CREEK 273-2754. in our oceanside horne. I ALSO NEED SONG house. VERY IMPORTANT! Townhouse • 2 bdrms MedicaVIegal expenses covered. 1-SUGGESTIONS .... 
Call Bridget at X2721 Nannies wanted to live in or out in Rent is reasonable Computer desk & chair $75 or b/o. 800-438-6599 eves. the Chicago area. $300+ per wk. and negotiable Call Mary 271-7288. PUT BOTH IN THE-BOX OUTSIDE 
CO's "LOST" AT TONY'S OFF­working with caring families. Teri Call ,Jeff at x3368 Chris, Eileen, Genny-MY DOOR .... CAMPUS PARTY ON GOOD Burgess Consulting is a child care ?????????????????? FRIDAY : Pink Floyd. specialist who works with both TICKETS Good luck on the MCAT! You're 323 PW .... 
Ocean Blue, Queen family and nanny. 1-312-525-4800. ••students•• going to do great! 
Now renting 1300 sq It condos at One way airline ticket from THANKS-JENNY MARTEN TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY 1993 grad. looking for roommate(s) College Park Condominiums. All S. Bend to Seattle, May 17th. ·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&· COMPACT DISCS: in Chicago area. units include: $200.00 or best offer. So JUSTIN-What is between the 
I generously shared my house so Open to ideas. -Security systems, Mary 631-5194 Moon and New York City, besides ###################### we could party. I never expected -Hard wood floors, Hoboken? 
someone would steal my precious Call Brian at277-8490. -All appliances, Help!Help!Helpl I need grad tickets! Kristen, Catherine, Danimal, Fitzy CO's. -Washer & dryer in unit, If you have extra call Joe@ 277-Thanks for Truckin' out here. and anyone else-Call me naive. but I trust a person NO undergrad females -Large balconies, 4273. until he or she breaks that trust. I looking to SUBLEASE YOUR 2 OR -Gas utilities, DEBBIE GOOD LUCK ON MCATS!!! work hard for the money I earn and 3 BEDROOM APT./ HOUSE for -Free covered parking, HELP! I need 1 or 2 grad tix. if 
the CO's I buy. Please examine summer session -2 large bedrooms, you have extras call mike at 4-St. Jude, patron of hopeless cases, HURT THAT TESTI your conscience and ask if what you (preferably near campus). Call Lisa ·2 full bathrooms, 2148 or leave message at 284 of things almost despaired of, thank did was fair to me. Hopefully, you X4265 or Mia X2669, X2648 -Only 1/4 mile from door of -5506 and let's make a deal. you for answering my prayer. Love-Marten 
will see justice like the thief who Hesburgh library. 

·---~-~-~ ~-~---~ 
page 16 

h Ob 
-
' ..... ..... ........................ ..... ..... ........... . ~. ­
.~ e 0 ,. ~ = ·= ·= == == = == == = == = f 0
~ '" > • ••••• : : ::•••••·:••••• : •••••·: ::•••••: •••••·: : ·.·'· ' ~~-, ,........
~ '~ : : : : : .. : : : : : : : .. : . --.....,~ ~~~~ '---' 
• •• •• •• • • • •• •• • • • • tr-y ~~ ~ 
..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . . ....... --­
TRANSACTIONS L STANDINGS MLB STANDINGS r 
BASEBALL AMERICAN LEAGUE

Amerlc•n Le•gue NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eaat Dlvlelon

BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-Qptloned Fernando GB Eaat Dlvlalon
WALES CONFERENCE 
w L Pet.

Valenzuela, pitcher, to Rocheoter of the Dlvlalon w l Pet.
Patrick GB
Boston 7 2 .778

International League. Recalled Brad Pennington, Philadelphia 8 1 .889
w l T Pta GF GA Horne Away Dlv Toronto 5 3 .625
pitcher, from Rcx:Mster. x-Pittaburgh 58 21 7 119 Pittsburgh 7 2 .778 ,
387 288 32-8-4 24-15-3 25-9-3
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Releaoed Ken y-Washlngton 42 34 7 91 321 284 20-15-6 22-19-1 12-22-2 1/2 Sl. Louis 8 2 .750 , 1/2
New York 5 4 .556 2
Dayley, pitcher. Purchaled the contract of Tony New York 4 4
y-New Jersey 40 38 7 87 304 291 24-14-4 18-22-3 18-18-2 .500 31/2
Detroit 4 4 .500 2
Castillo, pitcher, from Syracuoe of the International y-NY Islanders 39 Chicago 4 5 .444 4
37 7 85 327 293 19-19-3 20-18-4 21-14-1 league. Philadelphia 35 37 11 81 314 315 23-14-5 14-20-3 1/2 Montreal 4 5 .444 4
12-23-6 Cleveland 3 6 .333 4
National League NY Rangera 38 79 304 14-21-6 Florida 3 .333 5
34 11 302 2Q-17-5 12-20-3 Milwaukee 2 5 .286 4 6 
MONTREAL EXPOs-Qptloned Tim Laker, Adame Dlvlalon Weal Dlvlelon
Baltimore 2 6 .250 4
catcher, to Ottawa of the International League. x-Boston 51 26 7 109 w l Pet. GB
332 288 29-10-3 22-16-4 27-9-1 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Placed Bud y-Quebec 47 27 10 351 23-17-2 24-10-8 20-14-3 1/2 Atlanta 6 4 .600
104 300 Waat Dlvlalon
Bleck, pitcher, on 15-day dloabled list, retroactive Houston 5 4
y-Montreal 48 30 6 102 326 280 27-13-2 21-17-4 23-14-o .556 1/2
w l Pet.

to April 9. Purchaled the contract of Gino MinuteU, y-Buffalo 38 GB San Francisco 5 4 .556 1/2
36 10 66 335 297 25-15-2 13-21-8 18-15-4 
Texas 6 2 .750

pitcher, from Phoenix of Paclllc Coaot League. Hartford 51 58 384 14-27-1 -Colorado 3 5 2
26 8 280 12-24-5 13-21-3 California 5 .714 .375
2 112 Loa Angeles 3 6
BASKETBALL Ottawa 10 70 4 24 202 395 9-29-4 1-41-0 4-32-1 Chicago 4 4 .500 2 .333 21/2 
National Baeketball Aeaoclatlon CAMPBELL CONFERENCE San Diego 2 7 .222 31/2
Minnesota 4 4 .500

MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Activated Frank Norrie Dlvlalon ~ Cincinnati 2 7 .222 31/2
Oakland 4 4 .500

Brlckowakl, center, from the Injured llot. Placed Wednead•y'e O•m••
w l T Pta GF GA Horne Away Dlv Seattle 4 4 .500 2
Denny Schayee, center, on the Injured list. Florida 8, San Francisco 4 
x-Chlcego 47 25 12 106 279 230 25-11-6 22-14-6 22-11-4 Kansas City 2 7 .222 4
UTAH JAZZ-Signed Jameo Donaldoon, Chicago 6, Atlanta o
y-Detrolt 47 28 

9 103 389 280 25-14-3 22-14-6 22-12-3 
center. y-Toronto 11 288 25-11-6 18-13-6 1/2 Houston 9, Montreal 5 
44 29 99 241 19-18-5 Wedneaday'a Gamea
United Statee Baoketball League y-St. Louie 37 11 282 278 15-23-4 Philadelphia 9, Cincinnati 2
38 85 22-13-7 15-15-7 New York 6, Kansas City 5
USBL-Named Scott Loft director of ocoutlng. Minneeota New York 6, Colorado 3 
36 38 10 82 272 293 18-16-7 18-22-3 13-20-4 
Boston 12, Cleveland 7

WESCHETSER STALLIONS-Signed Mark Tampa Bey 23 54 7 53 245 332 11-27-4 Pittsburgh 1 1, Sar;1 Diego 7 
12-27-3 7-26-4 California 12, Milwaukee 2 
Brown, guard, and Daren Rowe, IOIWard. Smythe Dlvlalon St. Louis 2, loa Angeles 1, 1 5 lnnlnge 
Seattle 10, Toronto 9, 10 imlnge

FOOTBALL Thuradey'a Gamaa
x-Vancouver 45 29 9 99 338 2~ 27-11-4 18-18-5 24-10-2 Minnesota at Chicago, ppd., rain
National Football League y-Calgary 42 11 Late Games Nol Included 
30 95 315 279 22-14-5 20-16-6 23-9-4 
Baltimore 6, Texas 5 

SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Matched the Montreal 2, Houston 1 
y-Loo Angeles 39 34 10 86 332 332 22-14-5 17-20-5 17-15-4 Only games scheduled
Phoenix Cardinale' offer to Harry Swayne, tackle. Colorado 5, New York 3
y-Wlnn:peg 40 37 7 87 322 320 23-16-3 17-21-4 19-14-4 
Thured•y'a G•m••

Signed Leo Goeao, offensive lineman, to a three­Edmonton 26 Pittsburgh 5, San Diego 4, 13 Innings 
50 8 60 242 337 16-21-5 10-29-3 10-26-1 
Toronto 3, Seattle 1 

year contract and traded him to the Loa Angeles St. Louis at Loa Angeles (n)
San Jose 11 70 2 24 215 407 6-33-1 3-37-1 8-27-1 Detroit 3, Oakland 2 
Ramo tor a 1993 fourth-round draft choice. Atlanta at S1111 Francisco (n)
x-cllnched division title CaiHornla at Milwaukee, ppd., rain

TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Waived Willie y-dlncheo playoff berth Only giVTieo scheduled 
Boston 4, Cleveland 3, 13 iminge Frlday'a GamaaCulpepper, wide receiver. 
Kansas City 5, New York 4 

Canadian Football League Philadelphia (Mulholland 2-o) at Chicago (Morgan o-OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Jeff BOOKSTORE BASKEBALL RESULTS Only games scheduled 2), 3:20 p.m. 
Frlday'a GamaaKoredl, running back. 

Chicago (McDowell 2-Q) at Boston (Darwin 0-1· C.olorado (Henry 0-1) at Montreal (Bottenfield 0-1), SACRAMENTO GOLD MINERS-Acquired Wedn..day'a R..ulta 1ony Husso's Castle Point All Stars def. 6·05 7.35 p.m. Robert Hardy, rumlng back, from the Edmonton 
Coming From Behind del. Salubrious N We're No Colasis, 21-18 Oaki!,~·(Welch 2-o) at Milwaukee (Wegman 0_ New York (Schourek 0-1) at Cincinnati (Rijo t-o),Eoklmoa tor Mure conslderatlono. Signed Qulntin 
7:05 p.m. 2 ~j35 p.m.Jonee, defenalve back. 
Callypigious, 21-1 B Who Loves You def. Victims of Gravity, 21­
Seattle (Johnson 1-0) at Detroit (Wells 1 -0), 7:0 orlda (Hough 2-0) at Houston (Swindell 1-1 ), 8:05 Arana Football 
Natural White del. Mo' Better Ribs, 21-14 11 
p.m. p.m.. 
MIAMI HOOTERS-Named Jim Taubert It's Better to Be Lucky Than Good del. The How Are Ya Bob? def. Fr. Joe Ross C.S.C ..., 
Toronto (Morris 0-2) at Cleveland (Nagy 0-2), 7:0 St louts (Megrane O-o) at San Diego (Benes 1-1),
delenolve coordinator and Jimmy Dunn offensive Mighty Flamm Wads, 21-1D 21-1B p.m. 10.05 p.m. 
coordinator. Signed John Fourcede, quarterback, Team 575 def. 2 1/2 Guys That Will ... , 21-19 Turkish Prisoners def. One Up, 21-16 Texas (Lefferts 1-1) at New York (Perez 0-0), 7:3 Pittsburgh (Wakefield 1-1) at loa Angeles (Hershlalll' 
and Jim Jenaen, wide receiver, and named Jenoen Princess Laa & Her Erotic Ewoks def. lNGI 1-1),10.35p.m.
Pale Riders def. Game Cancelled, 21-6 p.m. marketing repr......Uative. 
Sexual Frustration Ill def. Victoria's Real To Lazy to Puke, 21-7 California (Farrell 0-1) at Baltimore (Sutcliffe 1-1 Atianta (Smoltz 1-1) at San Francisco (BUrketi2-Q), HOCKEY Secret, 21-17 When This Side is Empty, Slide Door Left 7:35p.m. 10:35 p.m. 
National Hockey League Kansas City (Gardner 0-1) at Minnesota (Tapanll Saturday'• Gamaa 

NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Alexei Kovalev, 2), 8:05 p.m. New York at Cincinnati, 1 :05 p.m. right wing, and Joby Ma11ler, defenaeman, to Rasa, 21-13 17 Saturday'• Gamaa Colorado at Montreal, 1 :35 p.m. Binghamton of the American Hockey League. A Squirrel & His 4 Nuts def I'm With Stupid, Hot Fudge def. No Pain, 21-6 
Vanilla Guerillas def. 4 Guys With A Nasty def. 5 Guys Who Take It To the Hole Hard, 21­
Kansas City at Mimeoota, 1:05 p.m. Phlladelhia at Chicago, 4:05p.m. OTTAWA SENATORS-Fired Mel Bridgman, Peaches & Urban def. Moose, Krauss & 3
21-16 Chicago at Boeton, 1:05 p.m. Atia~ta at San Francisco, 4:05p.m. general manager. Named Randy Sexton general Justifiable Homicide def. Fightin' Asiatic Tree Others Guys Who Play Like They Are Dead, Seattle at Detroit, 1:15 p.m. Flonda at Houston, 8:05p.m. manager. Texas at New York, 1:30 p.m. Pittsburgh at los Angeles, 10:05 p.m. 
Shrews, 21-6 21-10 
OLYMPICS 

Not the Sons of Chachi def. Vaqueros Toronto at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. St. Louts. at San Diego, 10:05 p.m. USA BASKETBALL-Named Jim Calhoun, 
If You Reach Us ... del. So & So, What's His 
California at Baltimore, 1 :35 p.m. Sunday • Gamea
Name... 21-12 Urbanos, 21-8
Jerry Green and Mike Jarvis men's assistant Oakland at Milwaukee 2·05 p m Colorado at Montreal, 1:35 p.m. 
Ebony Side of the Dome def. Moley Impact, The Betrayed Guru def. Todd's Team, 21-9 
coechea lor the Under 22 team. sunday'a Game• ' · · · New York at Cinclmati, 2:15p.m.
NOs Most Wanted def. The Chief and His
SOCCER 21-7 Chicago at Boeton, 1 :05 p.m. Phtladelphla at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. Amerlc•n Proteulon•l Soccer L••gue Searing Hot Port Swords def. Team Beer, Triba Texas at NewYork,t:30 p.m. Florida at Houston, 2:35p.m. COLORADO FOXES-Signed Robert Upp, 
21-8 Seattle at Detroit, 1 :35 p.m. St. louis at San Diego, 4:05 p.m.defender, to a one-y81W contract. 
Hot Grits A Flyln' def. Muzza, 21-12 Toronto at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. Atlanta at San Franctsco, 4:05p.m. St. Buttafucco def. Chewbacca. 21-17 
~~~~~ 


~ ~ LUNCH SPECIAL
•ru~ 
FREE SOUP WITH

PANCAKE Senio~~
THE BEAD WORKSHOP 
Discount 
ANY SANDWICH

HOUSE IS% OFF 
ORDER
Mon. thru FrL

lcucly ~~ Mon.-fri. Only
Over 1000 different beads of 
After II a.m. l'le,1Se No Coupon Needed

' APRIL SPECIAL
all shapes and sizes and a 
l'lUUI gif3 QRB !:' ~ 
Our Specialty -Oven Baked
full line of supplies 
Mon.-FrL Only

APPLE PANCAKES ALL STEAK DINNERS
Buy t, Get t purchases over $5 
Present this coupon for IO% off 
t/2 OFF SAVE SJ qf}ER?PFMFPLEASE 
NO COUPOf~ NEEDED Save '2.48. Mon.-fri. Only. No Coupon Needed 
Serving Mlchlana for :n Years

237-0500 2222 Mishawaka Ave. 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland
near Ironwood 
Open 7 Days A Week (Across From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 
At 6:30A.M.

EXPIRES 5-7-93 
• 
Reader Audition
The Home For All Your Cycling Needs 
for 



Baccalaureate Mass 
and 

Senior Last Visit to Sacred Heart 

Tuesday, April 20th and Wednesday, April 21st 4:00pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
10140 McKinley· Osceola, IN 46561 219-679-4992 10-7 Monday-Friday • 9-5 Saturday 

----~----~---· 
--------------~ --~---~--­
Friday, April16, 1993 The Observer 
page 17 


Bullets, Chapman end Miami's playoff hopes 
-Chief of Staff  -Liturgical Commissioner  
-Social Commissioner  -Fundraising Commissioner  
-Service Commissioner  -Dorm Representative  
-Publicity Commissioner  -Council Representative  


LANDOVER, Md. (AP) -Rex Chapman scored 14 of his 22 points in the fourth quarter Thursday night and the Wash­ington Bullets all but ended Mi­ami's slim playoff hopes with a 110-92 victory over the Heat. 
Tom Gugliotta made all seven of his shots in the second half 
NBA Capsules 

and hmshed with 22 pomts, al­lowing the Bullets to break a five-game losing streak with their third victory in four tries against the Heat. 
Miami's record fell to 35-42; Detroit and Indiana, both 38-38, are tied for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Celtics 1 06, Nets 105 

Sherman Douglas hit an off­balance 15-footer with three­tenths of a second left, and Boston handed New Jersey its seventh straight loss. 
The Celtics' sweep of the four-game season series with the Nets gave them a 2 1/2-game lead over New Jersey in the race for the fourth-best record in the Eastern Conference, which includes a home-court advantage in the first round of the playoffs. 
Derrick Coleman, who had 33 points, 15 rebounds and 10 as­sists, had given New Jersey a 105-104 lead by hitting a jumper in the lane with 5.5 seconds left after missing a game-tying free throw attempt. 
Reggie Lewis led Boston with 29 points. Douglas had 19, Robert Parish 16 and Alaa Ab­delnaby 15. Robinson added 26 for New Jersey. 
76ers 1 01, Magic 85 
The Orlando Magic blew an opportunity to move into a tie for the final Eastern Conference playoff berth. 
Jeff Hornacek scored 26 points and Clarence Weatherspoon 21 as the 76ers dropped the Magic 

Attention Freshinen! 
Apply today for Sophomore Class Council positions: 
Applications are available in the Student Government Office from April 14-19. Applications are due April 19 at 5 p.m. in the Student Government Office. 
one game behind Detroit and Indiana in the race for the eighth playoff spot in the East. 
The 76ers double-and triple­teamed the Magic's Shaquille O'Neal, holding the rookie star center to 21 points and 11 re­bounds. 
Hersey Hawkins scored 18 points for Philadelphia, which snapped a three-game losing streak. The 76ers had lost 10 of the last 12. Tom Tolbert scored 14 points and took down 13 re­bounds, Donald Royal scored 16 and Dennis Scott 15 for Orlando, which had won four of its last five. 
Cavaliers 108, Bucks 93 
Danny Ferry scored a season­high 18 points and Cleveland Cavaliers used a 24-7 third­quarter surge to move to its sixth straight victory. 
Gerald Wilkins had seven points and John Williams six during the spurt that built a 75­53 lead with 2:52 left in the quarter. The Cavs, beating the Bucks for the fourth time in five meetings, outscored Milwaukee 37-19 in the third quarter to open an 84-59 lead. ­
Mike Sanders added 16 for 
Cleveland on a night when leading scorers Brad Daugherty and Mark Price were held under double figures. Daugherty, averaging 20.5, had eight points but pulled down 12 rebounds and Price, averaging 18.7, scored four. 
Jazz 122, Trail Blazers 117, 
OT 

Karl Malone scored six of his 38 points in overtime and the Utah Jazz hit 11 of 12 free throws in the extra period to defeat the Portland Trail Blazers 122-117. 
The Jazz made 7 of 8 free throws in the final 40.8 seconds to end Portland's winning streak. at five. 
Cliff Robinson led Portland with 40 points, including 12 of 13 free throws. Terry Porter added 21 points. Jeff Malone scored 24 points for Utah, Karl Malone grabbed 11 rebounds and John Stockton had 12 assists. 
Utah coach Jerry Sloan was ejected during the fourth quarter following a chest-to-chest shoving incident with referee Bob Delany. 
Best Selection -Best Service 
TREK.usABmoaEsronE 'f 
SPfOAlJZEIJ. 


603 N. Second St. , Nlles, MI 49120







BIKE_. 
SPECIALISfS(616) 683-3100 
CLQSED SECilQ~S  AS  BA  490  OJ  1507  ENOL  384B  01  3824  HIST  473  01  4686  PHIL  315  01  4765  THEO  281  01  3675  
QE Z:OO r.M.1:L12L2:2  BA BIOS  490 304  04 01  1506 1519  ENOL ENOL  392B 01 399A 01  4612 3688  HIST HIST  473A 01 474 01  4687 3495  PHYS PHYS  221L 221L  02 05  2656 2657  THEO THEO  282 290  01 01  4819 0057  
ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT ACCT AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST AMST ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ARCH ARCH ARCH ARCH ARHI ARHI ARST ARST ARST AS BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA  232 02 334 05 371 02 371 03 371 05 372 01 479 01 359 01 371 01 384B 01 455 01 301E 01 302E 01 303E 01 354H 01 365H 01 367H 01 368H 01 386H 01 387H 01 388H 01 401E 01 402E 01 403E 01 404E 01 430 01 310 01 329 01 329 02 359 01 405 01 411 01 431 01 431A 01 454 01 443 01 543 01 598 01 598 02 169 01 483 01 2315 01 2415 01 2455 01 411 02 362 01 363 02 363 03 363 04 363 05 391 01 391 02 391 03  1284 1287 1294 1293 1292 1296 1304 4430 3652 3825 3886 4587 4588 4589 4699 4700 4702 4703 4704 4705 4706 4590 4591 4592 4593 0500 3492 3734 4444 4447 3992 4450 4451 4985 3560 1400 1403 1404 0401 1409 4474 1436 3297 3566 1489 1496 1843 1499 1498 1500 1212 1004 1213  BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS CAPP CAPP CAPP CHEO CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CLAS COMM COMM COMM COMM COMM COTH COTH COTH COTH COTH CSE CSE CSE ECON ECON ECON ECON EOUC EOUC EE EE EE EE EE ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL  304L 01 304L 02 344L 01 344L 02 344L 03 344L 04 401 01 405 01 463 01 315 01 361 01 416 01 459 02 333 01 333L 01 333L 02 333L 03 333L 04 441 01 103 02 103 03 103 04 103 05 103 06 210 01 373 01 377 01 435 01 440 01 331 01 332L 05 471 01 402 01 417 01 443 01 447 01 340 18 404 30 222 02 222T 01 342L 01 344T 01 498B 01 301A 01 301B 01 301B 02 312 01 314E 01 319A 01 319A 02 327 01 328 01 340 01  1520 1521 1523 1524 0195 0194 2145 0587 0582 1603 1604 0497 1642 1683 0183 1684 1685 1686 1712 9702 9703 9704 9705 9706 0344 4518 3610 4520 4521 0675 4841 3626 3633 4458 1788 4559 8418 8430 5087 1810 1834 1837 4914 1994 0604 4607 1998 3776 2000 2001 4609 3159 3431  ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN OE OE OEOS OEOS OOVT OOVT OOVT OOVT OOVT OOVT OOVT OOVT GOVT GOVT OSC OSC OSC OSC HESB HlST Hl5T HIST HIST HIST HIST HlST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST  415Z 01 426A 01 434Z 01 435A 01 440E 01 453 01 470 01 470A 01 480 01 485B 01 495A 01 360 01 360 02 360 03 360 04 360 05 361 03 361 04 376 03 376 04 380 01 470 01 475 01 575 01 141L 03 459 01 3160 01 342 02 342T 01 342T 02 342T 03 403 01 403T 01 445 01 478 01 486 01 220 01 315 01 430 01 495A 01 450 02 308A 01 326A 01 358A 01 361 01 370 01 371A 01 393 01 394 01 395 01 430 01 458 01 458A 01  4616 4617 4620 4580 4621 3693 4626 4993 4628 4629 1223 2033 2034 2035 2036 2039 2046 2042 2050 2051 2054 2060 3865 3866 4918 4854 4599 0893 3289 3290 3291 4076 4080 4568 4968 3698 3905 4638 3940 4646 0414 3646 3463 4098 4442 3649 5032 3312 2175 0534 4443 4116 4115  HIST liPS liPS LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW MARK MARK MARK MARK MATH MATH MBA ME ME ME ME ME ME ME Ml Ml Ml Ml Ml MUS MUS MUS MUS MUS MUS PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  474A 01 315P 01 584 01 506 02 601 01 603 02 6060 01 616 01 631A 01 631B 01 6310 01 676 01 679 01 350 01 350 02 370 02 495 01 325 01 335 02 601 01 331L 01 331L 02 331L 03 334 01 334L 01 435 01 469 01 318 01 333 01 432C 01 530 01 538 01 2200 01 2200 02 2200 03 221 01 226 01 230 01 222 02 224 01 225 01 225 02 232 01 233 02 235 01 239 01 242 01 242 02 246 01 253 01 261 01 261 02 265 01  3494 5033 3620 2217 2236 2240 2243 2251 2256 2257 2259 2265 3656 2284 2285 2287 3421 2353 1597 3984 4867 4868 4869 0167 0165 0688 0684 3475 4601 4753 4604 3696 2522 0777 2521 3062 2524 4756 0769 0767 3662 4761 4131 4763 2619 2189 5101 5102 2620 3666 2622 0279 2623  PSY 211A 01 2780 THEO 395 01 3375 PSY 341 02 3179 PSY 341 03 3178 CLASSES IHAT WILL PSY 341T 02 4923 REQ~EN AT Z:QQ r.M. PSY 342 01 2784 1l1.5.m.PSY 355 01 0267 PSY 403 01 4788 ACCT 232 02 1284PSY 421 01 0755 ACCT 371 02 1294PSY 453 01 4790 ACCT 371 05 1292PSY 454 01 0754 ARHI 169 01 1409PSY 455 01 0753 . BA 363 02 1843PSY 462 01 4791 BA 490 03 1507RLST 235 31 9531 BIOS 344L 01 1523RLST 235 33 9533 BIOS 344L 03 0195RLST 235 35 9535 BIOS 344L 04 0194RLST 251 43 9543 CAPP 416 01 0497RLST 251 45 9545 CHEM 333L 01 0183RLST 339 51 9551 ECON 402 01 3633ROFR 310 02 1254 ENOL 314E 01 3776ROFR 371 01 3472 ENOL 319A 01 2000ROIT 103 01 2986 ENOL 319A 02 2001ROSP 103 07 3007 ENOL 340 01 3431ROSP 236 01 0239 ENOL 426A 01 4617ROSP 310 01 3020 ENOL 485B 01 4629ROSP 318 01 3476 FIN 360 04 2036ROSP 328 01 3021 FIN 376 04 2051ROSP 483 01 4742 FIN 380 01 2054 soc 232 02 3331 OOVT 342 02 0893 soc 242 01 4157 OOVT 342T 01 3289 soc 242 02 4159 OOVT 403 01 4076soc 415 01 3938 HIST 370 01 3649 soc 420 01 4164 HIST 473A 01 4687soc 486 01 4571 MUS 2200 03 2521 soc 490 01 3043 MUS 230 01 4756 SIV 370 01 3650 PHIL 239 01 2189 SIV 454 01 3561 PHIL 242 01 5101THEO 242 01 0706 PHIL 242 02 5102THEO 243 01 4817 PSY 211A 01 2780THEO 246 01 1155 RLST 235 33 9533THEO 250 01 1105 RLST 251 45 9545THEO 253 01 1150 soc 232 02 3331THEO 255 02 4818 soc 242 02 4159THEO 258 01 0212 THEO 253 01 ll50THEO 264 01 4169 THEO 255 02 4818THEO 265 01 1147 THEO 281 01 3675THEO 266 02 1146 IHE QfEN CALLBACK fERIQI! IS IRQM Z;QQ f.M,-l,;QQ MIUNIQHI ANXIIME AF:IER XQllR AffQINIME~I. WHEN IHE AffQI~IMENI fERIQI! E~I!S, SIARII~Q AfRIL ,J, IHE CALLBACK f:ERJQI! WILL BE FROM U;QQ ~00~ TO U:QQ MIU~IQHI.  

~-~----.. ·rr ,.,... • r· 1 ,.,.., 1 • f t-~ t __, t · .~ t 
r---..----------~~--..~--..~~-----.--------------------~----------------------·-----------------------------~
----~--­

Upsets highlight rain-filled Bookstore tournament 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Tht~ Round of 256 in Book­store Basketball XXII came to a close amidst heavy downpours over the last two days and will wait until Sunday to resume play in the Round of 128. 
Three seeded teams, includ­ing Top 16 squad White Shadow, were upset during the three days of play in tho second round. 
White Shadow, which is led by football players Jeremy Nau and Jim Kordas, fell 21-19 to The More We Win, The Harder It Gets. The More We Win, which defeated teams seeded in the Second 16 in each of its first two years and finished in the Round of 64 last year, proved with its victory that it was worthy of the seeding it did not receive. 
"We've got to give them credit," said Nau. "We're kind of disappointed because we know we could have played better." 
"They're a good team," said Rick Codden, captain of The More We Win, "but I think they rely mainly on intimidation." 
Salubrious & Callypigous and Bittersweet, which were both ranked in the Second 16, lost Wednesday and yesterday. re· spectively. 
Salubrious was knocked out by the freshman team Coming From Behind, 21-18, in n one hour and twenty five minute rain-soaked contest. After falling behind 2-0, Coming From Behind scored five straight points and never relin­qulshod its lead. They were led to victory by the strong inside game and rebounding of foot­ball player Renaldo Wynn, the clutch shooting of Travis Krahl, and the solid ball handling of Brendan Norman. 
"It was sloppy out there," said Krahl. "but considering 
the conditions we didn't play too bad.'' 
"Because of the weather, it turned out to be less of a team game and more of an individual showcase," said Salubrious captain Will Grannen. "We play better as a team, but they had more individual talent." 
Bittersweet, which made it to the Round of 32 last year, was upset 21-17 yesterday by Pink Sky ln Morning, which was led by captain Joe Reichert's nine points. 
"We were confident," said Pink Sky In Morning member Mike Gayles. "The game was really physical, but we toughed it out. They were very competi· tive." 
"We didn't play up to our po­tential and they played really well," said Bittersweet captain Hob Kuennen. "(Yesterday) they were a better team than us. definitely." 
Weather was a major factor in the outcomes of many of the eighty five games played over the last two days as the wet courts and basketballs affected the shooting and offensive strategies of most teams. Both of the Lyons courts were cov­ered by puddles and half of one Bookstore court was entirely under water. 
The Women's Bookstore Basketball tournament com· mences Sunday with a field o forty eight teams and will follow the same Round schedule as Bookstore Basketball XXII. 
No games will be played to­day or tomorrow due to the Se· nior Formal. Sunday will fea­ture at least six contests with Top 16 teams. Corby's II and Blackjack will play at four o'clock on the Bookstore courts. Afrodeeziakz, H·A·R·D· K-0-R-E, Pale Riders, and Smooth Momentum will play at four o'clock at Stepan. 

Wrestling 
continued from page 24 
figure in the controversy, with his share of both supporters and detractors. 
Rosenthal denies the rumor that he had a conflict with Mc­Cann, but McCann's supporters believe that a conflict between the two ultimately doomed the program. 
"Really and truthfully (dropping the program) was more personal than money," said former wrestler J .J. Mc­Grew, who transferred to Ok­lahoma State. "I don't know of many other programs that have millions set aside. It was personal problems between either one of the coaches or both of them, and the adminis­tration." 
The money McGrew is re­ferring to is the $2 million O'Connor endowment. Rosen­thal says it was donated to the entire athletic department, not just to the wrestling program. 
But the problems appear to run deeper than fiscal difficulty or personal problems between Rosenthal and McCann. 
"Things didn't benefit you as a wrestler," Boyd said of the atmosphere of the wrestling program. "Look at the all­Americans who came here. When every single one of them doesn't live up to his potential there is something wrong with the program." 
There are clearly many opinions that surround the wrestling situation and the truth still seems distant more than a year after the contro­versy erupted. 
The only certainty is that Notre Dame is without a wrestling program, and rein­statement doesn't appear to be on the horizon. 
It was the first of what could be many quiet winters in the pit of the Joyce ACC, where the wrestling mats went unoccu­pied. 
Some felt a void. 
"Faith and Intellectual Life Coming Together at Notre Dame" 

Knowing God, Christ, and Nature 
A Symposium 
"To what extent would or should an epistemology adequate for science approximate an epistemology suitable for Christian spirituality, affirmation, and knowledge?" 
PROGRAM

FRIDAY, APRIL 16 SATURDAY,APRIL17 
Session 5 9:00-10:45 A.M. Chair: Owm Gingtrlch, Smilhsonian AsiTophysical ObseT'KJJory; Al1rotlc:my & 1/isuryo[Science,llanwd: AmerimnScienlificAffiliaJial "Proof-Texts, Theological Deduction, and Revelation" 
E. P. Sanders, Religion, Duke University Commentator: Ba.~ van Fraa.'i!ien,Philosophy,Princeton University 
Session 6: 11:15 A.M.-I :00 1'. M. Chair: Robert John Russell, Center for Theology and the Natural Sciences and The Graduate Theological Union "~N<mrd!Nn"-Ahinl'lan~Pfulalllphy,Nare~ Ccrmw!l'llaiiT:JohnSuwe,Geo/ogyalr;JGetJPirJl'ics,PrincelmUniversity 
Session 7: 3:00-4:45 P.M. Chair: Philip Clayton, Philosophy, Sonoma Stale University "Knowing God in Nature: Environmental Science and Green 
Religion"-R.J. Berry,Zoology, UniversityCollege,London Commentator: Christopher F. Mooney, SJ., Religious Studies, Fairfield University 
Mass, Basilica ofthe Sacred I/earl 5:15P.M. 
Ecumenical Prayer Service 8:00P.M. !'resiling:<>wmGi.rlgOich·Amerrnn ScientijicAjfilfllioo RqnsentaJM! llymn singing with piano accompanyment 
Center for Continuing Education 

All sessions both days are in the Continuing Education Center. 
Session 8: 9:00-10:45 A.M. Chair: Thomas F. O'Meara, O.P., Theology, Notre Dame "Contemplation, Metaphor, and Real Knowledge" 
Nicholas Lash, Divinty School, Cambridge University Commentator: William AL~on, Philosophy, Syracuse University 
Mass, Crypt Church 11:30A.M. 
Session 9: 2:15-4:00 P.M. Chair: George V. Coyne, SJ., Director, Vatican ObservaJory "TheScientific Visiooandthe Beatific Vision"-Frederick~ 
History and Philasophy ofScience, University ofMaryland Commentator: Mary Gerhart, Religious Studies, Hobart and William Smith Colleges and Theology, Notre Dame 
Session 10: 4:30-6:151'. M. Chair: l'hilip L. Quinn, Philosophy, Notre Dame "Our Experience of Knowing in Science and in Spirituality" 
William R. ~. SJ,Astrophysici.\1, Vatr.an Observatay Commentator: Ernan McMullin,HistoryandPhilosophy of Science, Notre Dame 
Session 11 8:00-10:00 P. M. Chair: David Tracy, University ofChicago Divinity School "Religious Belief and Scientific Method" Nicholas Rescher, History and Philosophy ofScience, 
University of Pillsburgh CorrvneJ'Iklla: ArthurPmrocke,S.OSc.,Then/Dgy, OxfordUniversity Closing ofthe Symposium-Francis J. Castellino, Dean, 
of the College of Science, Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: The Center for Philosophy ofReligion, Notre Dame, in cooperation with the Vatican Observatory; the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values, Notre Dame; The College of Science, Notre Dame; The Office ofCampus Ministry, Notre Dame; and the Comrniuee on Science and Human Valucs ofthe National Conference of Catholic Bishop; 
Free to Notre Dame/St. Mary's Community 
(Walk-in, No Registration Required for Notre Dame, St. Mary's Students, Staff, Faculty, and Religious) 
"It was my first year without wrestling in a long time," said sophomore Mike Fox. "My dad is a coach and I went to some of his matches and that really made me miss it." 
Others felt relief. 
"With all the problems (last season) it was difficult to con­centrate on wrestling," said Boyd, who will complete his wrestling eligibility next season at Central Michigan after he graduates from Notre Dame this spring. "The year away really helped clear my head." 
Still others went elsewhere. 
McGrew landed at Okla­homa State, Chris Jensen went to Oregon and Steve King be­came an all-American at Michi­gan. 
Whether they stayed at Notre Dame or opted to trans­fer, every wrestler faced a tough choice last April. 
"It was a hard decision at first, but I decided I should stay at Notre Dame and get a good education rather than go to an inferior school just to wrestle," Fox said. "There isn't much of a future in wrestling after col­lege." 
Wrestling doesn't appear to have much of a future at Notre Dame, either. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 

hooter's touch earns a million 
BLOOMINGTON, Ill. lAP) Talk about a million-to-one long shot! 
A $5-an-hour salesman capti­vated the Chicago Stadium crowd Wednesday night, earn­ing $1 million by flinging a basketball through the hoop from about 75 feet. 
"It took me three years to make a million dollars," quipped Chicago Bulls forward Horace Grant. "It took him five seconds." 
Don Calhoun of Bloomington had one try to hit the shot from the opposite foul line -three­quarters the length of the bas­ketball court. 
The 23-year-old Calhoun, picked to participate in a pro­motional contest during a break in the game, calmly stepped forward in his bright yellow shoes and flung the ball, baseball-style, from his shoul­der. 
The result? 
Nothing but net. 
The fans -who had been watching a runaway Bulls' vic­tory over the Miami Heat ­went wild. 
FOR DETAILS ... BRING THIS TICKET TO FUNTAN, INC., STATE RD. 23 

UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
.... 
486SX 25MHz cpu 
• 
4MB RAM & 105MB HD • 3.5" and 5.25" drives 

• 
14" SVGA color monitor 

• 
Two serial ports 

• 
One parallel and game port 

• 
1MB video card • 1 01-key keyboard 

• 
DOS and Windows 

• 
3-button serial mouse_ 






$1369* 
• 
2MB RAM & 40MB HD • 3.5" drive 

• 
14" VGA color monitor 


• Two serial, one parallel and game port 
• 1 01-key keyboard & DOS 


$899* 
486DX2 66/ 33MHz 
• 
4MB RAM & 105MB HD • 3..5'' and 5.25" drives 

• 
14" SVGA color monitor 



• Two serial,one parallel and game port 
• 
1MB video card • 1 01-key keyboard 

• 
DOS and Windows 

• 
3-button serial mouse 



$1995/1629* 
VISA &MasterCard accepted 

C:ALLFUTURESOURCETODAY FOROTHERGREATDEALS! 288-9636 
*MUST PRESENT STUDENT/FACULTY I.D. AT TiME OF PURCHASE. 

-~­SAINT MAfN"S COLLEGE t\ORffiU CfnH R fOR 1Hf <f!RTS SATURDAY, APRIL 17 ATB P.M., O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM MARGIE GILLIS SOLO DANCE NO ONE COMES CLOSE TO HER EXTRAORDINARY ARTISTRY AS ASOLO PERFORMER-SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE COMPLIMENTARY SEATS FOR SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS* SM'S-ND COMMUNITY $3  
*While quantities last. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626.  
Saint Ma~'s Colle~ NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  

-~~­

page 19 The Observer 
Women's tennis to face IU after three month wait 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info Freshman Wendy Crabtree leads the Irish againtst the 11th-ranked Hoosiers as Notre Dame puts a seven game win streak on the line. 
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Be.' 
Oriental Resta[\rant' 

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana By//130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 

Michiana Now/ ' 

(next li.> Randall's lim ) 



______I 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 
Three months. 
When the Notre Dame women's ·tennis team began their Spring season in January, they knew that one of their most important matches of the season may be three months away. 
Despite a schedule littered with top-25 opponents, the Irish singled out their April 18 matchup with Indiana as the match which could determine their qualifying status for the NCAA tournament. 
Twenty-one matches later, it seems the Irish prediction has come true. Twenty-first ranked Notre Dame, whose 15-6 record includes a current nine-match winning streak and a 7-0 mark in the Midwest, squares off on Sunday against the 11th-ranked Hoosiers in Bloomington. The winner should receive the Midwest region's automatic berth to the NCAA tournament. 
"The whole season we have 
looked toward the Indiana 
match," said freshman Wendy 
Crabtree, Notre Dame's top­
seeded singles player. "No 
matter what else happens this 
season-even if we would get 
an at-large bid to the 
NCAAs-we would still love to 
beat them. We want to be no. 1 
in the region, not no. 2." 
If the Irish do beat Indiana, it would secure the first team NCAA bid in Notre Dame his­tory. 
"I know their top players will be very strong, but I don't think that they will be as deep as we are," Crabtree added. "Not many teams are." 
Indiana is led by senior Debo­rah Edelman, the 18th ranked player in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association national rankings. She is joined in the rankings by junior Jody Yin, currently ranked 34th. 
In doubles, Edelman teams with Rachel Epstein to form the 7th-ranked team, and Yin and her partner, Danielle Paradine, are ranked 30th. 
"We're nervous about the match," said Crabtree. "But we're also ready to go after them. Their top two doubles teams are rated as the best two in the region, so it will be very important for us to start strong in singles. We'll need to be ahead or at least tied after those matches to take some pressure off the doubles." 
For the Irish match with Indi­

ana to mean anything, though, 
Notre Dame must first get past 
Ohio State on Saturday. The 
Buckeyes should pose little 

problem for Notre Dame, unless 
the Irish find themselves 
looking ahead. 
"The Indiana match is so im­
portant," said Crabtree, "that 
we may be looking past Ohio 
State a little bit, and that could 
cause some problems. They're 
a decent team-they're not one 
of the best teams in the region, 
but they won't roll over, either." 
Even if Notre Dame fails to 
secure the Midwest's automatic 
bid to the NCAA tournament, 
the Irish should also have a 
solid chance of receiving an at­
large bid. 
Their cause was helped by 
two impressive victories over 
the Eater holiday. Notre Dame 
defeated Atlantic Coast 
Conference opponents North 
Carolina and Wake Forest. 
In the Carolina match, Notre 
Dames top-seeded doubles team 
Friday, April 16, 1993 

feisty Ball State 
to test ranked men•s tennis 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
· Searching for their 11th win in theirlast 12 matches, the eighth­ranked men's tennis team beads down to Muncie, In., to take on an ambitious Ball State squad on Sunday. Last year the Irish were pushed to the limit. but escaped with a 6­3 win thanks to some heroics from three-time AU-American David DiLucia. 
This season the Irish expect much of the same from the Cardinals, who boast a player ranked in the top 20 in the nation and a penchant for giving the Irish all they can handle. 
"They've proven over the years to he more than capable of giving us fits," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss, "They beat me my first two years here. and now we've beaten them the last three. 
"They're a blue collar team that comes at you hard. It won't be a stretch to find us in the middle ofa war.". 
In the feature match of the day, Ball State's top player, 19th­ranked Curt Josselyn, will match up against the Irish's Will Forsyth, who is ranked 15th in the nation. Chuck Coleman will likelyface off with Ball State's John Amos, who has defeated the 
~rd·singles playe:t:. Mark 
t; ~ the past. ? ;;
ll terrific pla.yer.~·noted 

BayliSs• "It· should be very close, 
and it may go down to the wire." The Cardinals also feature 
three other solid players in Italy's 
Davide Barbon and talented 
freshmen Denny English and Jim 
~0\\'0•. w; J'P~fweekend 's match, is the ' 
la,st Qfthe dual. meet se{.I.Son for 
the Irish,, which has sel}n them ~ 
achieve a No. 8 ranking despite 
playing the nation's toughest 
schedule. ·· 
"Sjnce our second-place finish 
at the NCAAs last year, we've had 
tq eQDle out with a target on our 
b~Ck$ atl year," said Bayliss. . •••· 
· After this weekend. the Irish 
focus on training in preparation 
for this year's NCAA Champi­
onships in Athens, Ga., on May 
14-23. 
t· 
~-------~--~-~ --­
page 20 The Observer 
Baseball to play overmatched Duquesne 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Duquesne head baseball coach Hieh Spear has a simple goal for his team this weekend. 
"Survive," said Spear. "I think we plan to do that by making sure our players aren't assassinated by a Notre Dame line drive or hit by a Notre Dame piteh." 
The Notre Dame baseball team (17 -8) continues its Midwestern Collegiate Conference schedule this weekend with a four-game series against Duquesne (5-14) after a game against Illinois on Wndnesday was cancelled. 
The Irish will travel to Pitts­burgh to face the Dukes who have struggled this year. Duquesne was swept by Butler in a four game series, but defeated Dayton and Detroit Mercy in single games this year. 
"They're such a good team. We're doing a lot of praying," quipped Spear. 
Notre Dame coaeh Pat Murphy thinks Spear is crying wolf just a little. 
"Anybody can beat anybody on any given day. We're going there to win every inning of every game and not just win every game, but win evtlry inning of every game. I think we're capable. 
"We don't care what Duquesne 


The Observer I Macy Hueckel 
Freshman Ryan Topham has given the Irish a boost at the plate this season hitting .419 and batting in 20 runs. 
has done. They'll play the game of their life against us. Their coaeh has already told me it's the biggest game on their schedule. They'll be all juiced up and excited." 
Players to watch from Duquesne include Matt Williamson (.392, 8 RBI), Chris Ziegler (. 351, 10 RBI), Rick Krumenacker (.338, 9 RBI) and Mario Cafaro (.321, 9 RBI). 
Almost every member of the pitching staff will see time on the mound for the Dukes this weekend. Saturday's first starter will be Damien Dubien (0-4, 
10.80) while the second starter in undetermined. On Sunday, Matt Cunningham (1-1, 5.52) and Jamey Keysor (3-1, 3.04) will start for Duquesne. 
Defense will be a question again for the Irish as the team looks to avoid the errors which plagued them last weekend. 
"We need a lot of work on our defense," said Murhpy. "Getting better on defense means getting a number of days outside in a row and getting in a rhythm. We haven't been able to do that." 
Notre Dame comes into the game with an offense ranked 11th in the nation in batting and 11th in scoring which is led by senior Eric Danapilis, senior Eddie Hartwell, freshman Ryan Topham and sophomore Craig DeSensi. 
Danapilis was fifth in the NCAA in batting as of April 11 with a .459 average, but is sure to more up in the rankings after boosting his average to .484 over the weekend. The right-fielder is also ranked fifth in runs batted in with 37 to date. 
Hartwell (.400, 23 RBI) and Topham (.419, 20 RBI) are also hitting well while DeSensi is ranked 16th in the NCAA in home runs with eight. 
The Irish pitching staff con­tinues to be an important part of the Notre Dame's success so far with a team earned run average of 5.29. Possible starters for the weekend include senior Chris Michalak, junior Tom Price, senior David Sinnes, senior AI Walania or sophomore Tim Kraus. 
Junior second baseman Greg Layson will see limited action in his return from a foot injury while sophomore shortstop Paul Failla will not travel to Pittsburgh until Sunday due to football workouts. 
r-----------------~-------,
: Save 50¢ : 
: when you buy a medium or large waffle I 1 cone of frozen yogurt. (Original, nonfat, : 
1  or sugar free nonfat)  1  
:  Campus Shops  .  I  
1  1837 South Bend Avenue :  
I  271-9540  I  
I  w.P.tASmil•OnYoooT..t•!·  expires  4/23/93  I  

L-------------------------~ 
SUMMER JOB 
Friday, April16, 1993 
Ohio Wesleyan next for lacrosse 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 

The 16th-ranked Notre Dame lacrosse team (9-1) is hoping for better weather this Satur­day when they faceoff against Division Ill power Ohio Wes­leyan (5-2) at 3:00 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. If it rains, the game will be moved indoors to Loftus. 
The #7 Battling Bishops should provide a stiff test for the Irish as their two losses have come against Hobart, who lost to Notre Dame in a thriller 15-14, and Michigan State by two goals, whom the Irish will play in the last game of the sea­son. 
Ohio Wesleyan boasts a quick, tenacious squad that loves to play an unsettled game by pushing the pace of the game. "They love to get up and down the field and play the transition game," Irish coaeh Kevin Corrigan noted. 
The Battling Bombers rely on 
Lax 
continued from page 24 
Corrigan. 

Behind this spirited play, the Irish stretched their lead to 11­5 at the end of three quarters, with senior co-captain Ed Lamb scoring off a Brian Erickson feed. 
With the rain resuming its in-their midlielders to create the transition opportunities, then look to their attack to finish o the play. "Ohio Wesleyan is the most attack-oriented team we've played in a while, so we'll look to our defense to match-up well against them," said Corrigan. 
One of the challenges for the Irish will be to control the tempo of the game and try to settle the action into a six-on­six game. Another key will be if Notre Dame exploits Ohio Wesleyan's tendency to play in an unsettled manner. 
But Coach Corrigan believes the real key will be for his de­fensive line of junior Garrett Reilly and sophomores Billy Gallagher and Mike Iorio to play solid defense in front o sophomore goalie Ryan Jewell and neutralize the Battling Bombers attaekers. "This will be the time for our defense to step up and control the game," he said. 
tensity in the fourth quarter, the Irish turned the game over to sophomore goalie Hyan Jewell to protect. Even though the Falcons added a few late goals, the Irish came away with a victory that pushed them one win closer to securing the NCAA tournament's Midwest Hegion bid. With two more games against regional oppo· nents, the Irish are in good shape for a return trip. 


Turn the lights off if you're not there! 
'»;aa;..re~:! 


Good luck tomorrow! 
Love, Amannda 


OPPORTUNITY 

Student Assistant to The Director of Volunteer Services 



Center for the Homeless 
Part Time Starting lmmedeiately 
For more information, contact Kathy Royer at the Center for Social Concerns, 631-7862 or Drew Buscareno at the Center for the Homeless 282-8700 
~------~------~~----·----~------~--------------~----~----------.-----------------~----~-----------.-------~~-----------.--------
Frida~ April 16,1993 The Observer 


Men's track prepares for snowy home opener 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Amidst the weather reports of snow, the men's track team will host Ball State and Hillsdale this weekend in the first home outdoor meet of the year. 
"Everybody's running two, three, or four events," said Craig Christian, a junior who running in four events including the 400 meter relay and the 200 meters. "It will be a good workout day since it is going to snow." 
Joining Christian in the relay are junior Chris Lilly, and freshman Brian McQuade and Ray Holder, who is normally a long and triple jumper. 
Junior captain Todd Herman is also doing a little cross­training on Saturday as the high jumper joins Dave Platt in the javelin. Herman picked up the implement in practice on Tuesday for the first time. 

The rest of the field events look pretty normal with John Smerek and Stuart Tyner in the discus and Mike Fleisch and Brian Kubicki in the shot put . 
"If they perform up to their capabilities, they can go one­two in their events," said field events coach Scott Winsor. 
Fleish and Kubicki will also compete in the hammer throw which they have both thrown before although not regularly along with sophomore Greg Morretti. 
In the jumping events, Holder and Tom Mescall will compete in the long jump. 
"Ball State has some very good long jumpers. They've got a guy whose jumped over 25 feet," said coach Winsor. 
In the triple jump, Holder will compete along with Lamaar Justice of the basketball team. 
The high jump will also fea­ture good competition. Herman, Notre Dame's top high jumper 
SUMMER 


STORAGE 
reservation as low as $5.78 per month 
cmlln: 6 8 3 -1 9 59 ®W®llll.nllllgs: 684-0285 
!\laster Mini-Warehouse 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's track team will be in action this weekend, as they host Ball State and Hillsdale in a tri-meet at the Monogram Track Satur­day. This is the first team con­
~\~GTON Co{!, y~· Cal/255-7777 ~J> 
Do you have the summer time SIJhool blues?? Ccme live at Remington Court during· summer school, and relax in luxury betwef'n classes. We have junior one bedrooms that will give the privacy o£your own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located on Main Street between McKinley and Edison 

will face a Ball State jumper whose high jumped 7' 1/2" and a Hillsdale jumper who has high jumped 6' 11". Also featured in the high jump will be Mescall and Todd Johnston. 
The pole vault features the re­turn of Chris Graves who has been out due to injury for the past two years. There is a competitive match up between Dan Grenough and Ball States leading high jumper. 
"They are going to be fighting it out around 16 feet," said coach Winsor, "Dan's done it in practice, so he's dBfinitely ca­pable of doing it in a meet. " 
The distance events are equally filled with athletes dou­bling up. 
"We are basically running against ourselves to see who runs at Drake," explained John Cowan who will compete in the 1500 and 800. 
Joining the sophomore in the 1500 are Erik Fasano, Jack McMullin, and Derek Seiling, who according to Cowan has put together two good steeple chase races in a row. 
This meet represents the midpoint in the Notre Dame outdoor track season. "We. want to do well to give our kids some confidence," said Winsor. 
John Coyle will not compete in this home meet but will run in the Mt. Sac Relays in California over the weekend. 
Notre Dame women look for team effort 
meeting between the two teams, Baker won the mile run over Irish runners Jensen, Emily Husted, and Kristi Kramer, and won the 3000 meter run ahead of Flood and Sarah Riley. 
"For us to win, we have to get good performances from Erica Peterson and our shot putters," continued Connelly. "We'll also need to dominate the distance events." 
Along with Peterson, the Irish will look to Monica Cox and Tasha Harris to compete well in the sprints, while the shot put will be handled by Karen Harris and freshman Rachel Kavanaugh. The tandem placed first and second, respectively, at Ball State in February. Trisha Joseph will lead the Irish in the long jump and triple jump, while Susan Maher will hope to beat Ball State athlete Cathy Rettig in the high jump. 
The Irish are _coming off of a fifteenth place fmish last week­end at the prestigious Sea Ray Relays, held in Knoxville. The meet was dominated by South­eastern Conference teams, in­cluding Alabama, Auburn, and Tennessee. Top finishers for the Irish included Jensen, who took sixth in the 3000 meter run, and Flood, who took ninth in the 5000 meter run. In the field events, Karen Harris fin­ished ninth in the discus and eleventh in the shot put. 
This Saturday's meet, the only home meet of the outdoor season for the Irish, will begin Saturday afternoon at 1:00 p.m. 
Arrive a I ive ... Don•t. drink and drive. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info Pole Vaulter Dan Grenough and the Irish track squads are looking to have fun at this weekend's meet despite a snowy forecast. 
centrated outdoor meet of the season for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame has faced Ball State earlier this year, during the indoor season. They trav­elled to Muncie, Ind. to compete in the Ball State Invitational. 
Ball State won the meet with 63 points, followed by the Irish with 
47.5 and Ashland University 

42

with ·5· Karen Harris 
The Cardinals placed a competitor in the top four in every event of the meet. 
"They have a lot more depth than we do in the sprints and hurdles," said Notre Dame as­sistant coach Tim Connelly. 
The Cardinals will be led in the sprinting categories by freshman Tameka Borders, who won both the 55 and 200 meter dash at the Ball State Indoor Invitational. Crystal Anderson and Darjul Claiborne, who won the 55 meter high hurdles at that meet, will be strong factors in the short hurdle races. 
Senior co-captain Patty Baker will challenge the Irish runners in the distance events, the strongest element of Notre Dame's team. In the last 
10 -15 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE DURING SUMMER SESSION 
• 
$5.30 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Friday, April 16th 3:00 -4:30p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 

If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffinet (631-7241) 

------------------~~-------------------------------------------------~---.------------~------~.-~~----~----~----~ 
page 22 The Observer Friday, April 16, 1993 



Belles' track in win-win 
SMC tennis playing for National bid 
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Media Information Mary Cosgrove and the Saint Mary's tennis team hopes they can advance to Nationals at this weekend's Midwest Tournament. 
Two games await SMC softball tomorrow 
Scherbo wins World Championships 
Men oza's 
BIRMINGHAM, England (AP) -It was as if Olympics super­star Vitali Scherbo had left the door open to his rivals, and then slammed it shut. 
The gymnast who won six gold medals at one Olympics was halfway down the field after the first round of disci­plines, in his case the rings. 

-
From the rings, the 23-year-~-----t old Belarussian moved on 
Bill Murray

the vault, where he score Jpr;J9.537, the second best score 
Groundhog Day
the final. 
Dally: 5:00, 7:30 

Daily: 10:00 llis routine on the paralle Sat-Sun: 2:15. 5:00. 7:30 
Sat-Sun: 10:00 
bars earned the top score 9.462, his high bar 9.375 an 

ROBERT REDFORD

floor exercises 9.325 were both second best, and his final appa­INDECENT ratus score, 9.350 on th 

PROPOSAL ~ 
pommel horse was fourth. 
45 715 945

He was that consistent. Daily: 4: · : · : 
Sat-Sun: 2:00, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
After his slow start on 






the '-------------.u.------------­
"A win against Carlton is a must," said coach Jo-Ann Nester. "We are guaranteed two matches if we win, first against Washington, and if we beat them we have a good chance in the quarter finals." 
The Belles beat Washington University earlier this season, 6-3, and a second win against them could statistically place them against number one seeded Kenyon College in the quarter finals. 
"Kenyon went to the Nation­als last year, they are tourna­ment tough and have the ex­perience we don't," said Nester. "We'll have to play the best match we've ever played. Kenyon is strong in all six posi­tions." 
There will be some changes in the Belles' line-up due to the absence of two players. Junior Thayma Darby, who has been absent most of this season, will take over senior Natalie Kloepfer's place at number-two. Sophomore Andrea Ayres will move up to number-three, and senior Chris Smiggen will cover number-four. Sophomore Nancy Waibel will move up to the fifth position, and sophomore Robin Hrycko will be at the sixth spot. 
In doubles play, number-one player Mary Cosgrove, a junior, will pair up with Darby at num­ber-one. Smiggen and Ayres will play together at number-

situation at Carthage 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's track team is in a win-win situation going into tomorrow's meet at Carthage College as a result of last Saturday's meet at Indiana University Purdue University at Indianapolis. 
On one hand, the live mem­bers that participated in the meet performed well, posting several personal records. Although team scores were not tabulated, junior Christy LaBarbera was very impressed with by the meet. 
LaBarbera tied her personal best in the 4x100, while team­mates Katie Linehan and Jill Jusick finished with personal bests in the 200. 
"Last weekend felt good. Enthusiasm was up and there was a lot of support from ev­eryone." LaBarbera said. 
On the other hand, those that did not compete in the meet have been out of competition for two weeks and are anxious to get back into it. 
"It was nice to be off for a lit­tle while and to go home," said 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 

Ivy Field 3:30PM* 


SATURDAY 


vs Ohio Wesleyan Krause Stadium 3:00 PM* Free gffi!-awy tofirst I00fans rounesy ofMiles Credir Union 
Track 

vs Ball State Krause Stadium 11:00 AM* 
*Free admission 
1.800.225.5800 
CRI WILL ARRANGE FOR WORRY FREE SUMMER STORAGE 
sophomore Joann Weed. "I now feel well rested and ready to go." 
The Belles will try to match the results of this meet two years ago, where they placed second. 
LaBarbera feels that this is possible given the improve­ments seen at practice. 
"Several personal bests have already been achieved this sea­son," she said, "and now we're in even better shape and doing even better." 
Weed, who holds the indoor shot put record, has also seen this to be true. 
"I've been in a slump since we started our outdoor sea­son," she explained, "but I'm in better shape now and throwing much better." 
Most of the competition that the Belles faced this season has been from Division I and II schools. This has been frus­trating for the Belles, who have had a hard time scoring well despite strong performances. 
This weekend should prove to be a turn around point for the Belles. Most of the schools competing in the meet are smaller Division Ill schools. 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
After having their last three games cancelled, the Saint Mary's tennis team (7-2) is something like an anxious race horse chomping at the bit. The Belles' eagerness to play could be an advantage for them at the Midwest Invitational in Madison today and Saturday. 

Sixteen teams play in this tournament, with only the top four teams coming in with a seed. The Belles' first game will be against number four seeded Carlton College. The teams that finish first and second will qualify for Nationals. 

By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team, 10-4, is hoping to add Illinois Benedictine College to their list of victims when they travel to Lisle tomorrow for a double header. 
Currently, the Belles are rid­ing a live game winning streak. Concordia University was the first to fall victim to the Belles as they were easily defeated 14­3 and 10-1. 
The Knights of Calvin College then fell to the Belles 3-1 in both of their contests. Manch­ester College was the latest vic­tim. falling 9-8 to the Belles before poor weather cancelled the second game. 

"We have a lot of games com­ing up in the next two weeks, and being on a winning streak is giving us more confidence in our abilities and will help us as we begin these busy weeks,"explained co-captain Stacy Bogataj. 
Once again, hitting has been the Belles' strength. According to Bogataj, "Everyone has been getting key hits and that has been the most important factor contributing to our recent suc­cess." 
While hitting has been strong, fielding for the Belles continues to need improvement. 
"We made a lot of stupid mis­takes yesterday (against Manchester) that we need to work on," Bogataj added. "We focused much more' on our fielding yesterday and will con­tinue to work on it today." 
Although the Belles had sev­eral games called early in the season because of the weather, Bogataj feels that this year's team plays much more together than teams of the past. 
"We are all comfortable with each other and play well to­gether because of this," she said. "Although many of our players are freshmen, we play as though we've played to­gether for years." 
rings, Scherbo took on the best of the rest as if were a Sunday afternoon stroll. His only ac­knowledgement of winning a world title and receiving the gold medal from Princess Anne was a wave to the crowd. 
After all, he has five more to aim at before the champi­onships end Sunday. 

Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of 
Saint Mary,s 


272-7510 
IPGI _,..,__,_ 
Daily: 4:30, 7:15, 9:30 Sat-Sun: 12:00, 2:15. 4:30, 7:15, 9:30 
,.....-----·-~-·------------------~----·--~· 





Today 
Friday, April 16, 1993 page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
rnPanwhiLP...1 GUt:SS NO ON€ SIA'(S
ntl5 IS Tl-1 E COMIC 
DEAD FOR LoN(n IN
BOoK 11-IAT SUPER­
COMIC [300KS.
MAN RfTURNS IN. 
I 

BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
He had seen Tanzania, and most of Mozambique was already behind him. There was no mistake. Chippy had done what most chimps only dream about: He had caught the Perfect Vine. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Boneset, e.g. 50-dire (legal 25 Murderous: oath)
1 Secretary Comb. form 52 Gay­5 Composer of 28Hindu 54 Author Dahl 
"Carmina Burana" 56 Connery or 
instrument 30CD's Moore role 
9 Site of golf's predecessors
"blue monster" 60 Over 14"-Troll," &1 lnnisfail
33 Tick 

Heine poem 35 Operatic f , , &2 Mother of Zeus partner o Pag 63 Filch
15 Actress Mia 
36 

-Saba . 64 Proofreader's 1& Like some 37 Minerals used 1n mark oldsters paints 65 Unsubstantial 17 Type style: 
39 Kind of profile 66 Mezzo from Pa. 

Abbr. 42 Bank abbr. 
&7 Plebe's place 18 Rocker Ant 43Michael 68AuthorofJackson album 19 Clubs or spices 
"Gentlemen 20 Monroe role in Prefer Blondes" 
45 Blissful "Some Like It 46 Ultimate degree Hot" 47 Assessed 
DOWN
22-Peak 49 Byzantine 23 Courage empress 1 Footpace 2 "-,Brute!" 3 Smoker ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Botswana desert 5Japanese seaport 

21 Kindled anew 41 Of the intellect 54 Hebrew letter &Speed­24 Port, to Pierre 44 Takes off 55 Existence: detecting 25 Kind of fever 47 Conundrum 
Comb. form 
devices 26"-GoOn," 46 Paraclete at 56"-,Joyof 7 Overwrought 1955 song Molokai 
Man's Desiring": Bach 
a Reputation 27 "Star Wars" 51 City on the 57 Taft's state 
heavy Allegheny 29Aglet 53 Designer de Ia 58 Pianist Peter 9 Mute for a horn 
10 "I lived-": 
31 Champaign 59 Emerson poem 
~~~··· Frost
Get answers to any three clues ~':+."-+:-! 12 Sheltered, at 38H.S. exam 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
sea 40 Brickell and 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0305 
...;;...&.......,.;;;......__. 13 Not so much McClurg 

Take the keys. 
Call a cab. 
Take a stand. 

Friends don't let friends drive drunk. 
FR IDRY ~ SRTURDRY RPRIL 16/17 Of Mice and Men CUSHING AUDITORIUM 8 & 10:30  FRIDAY, RPRIL 23 Al Franken Author of I'm Good Enough. I'm Strong Enough. and Doggone. PeopleLike Me & Daily Affirmations by Stuart Smalley. Stepan 8PM 3 Students/ 6 Public  




Sports 
page 24 Friday, April16, 1993 

Wrestling program's
Rain, mud don't taint lacrosse win 
absence echoes with 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE That's the way lacrosse coach Kevin two assists. With live goals giving him Sports Writer Corrigan described Notre Dame's 12-9 40 on the year, Colley is just four goals 
lingering questions 
mud-splattered victory over the Air shy of breaking the university record 
By JASON KELLY 
"In a game like this, you don't worry Force Academy Falcons yesterday at (43) for goals in a season which he set 
Associate Sports Editor 
about the aesthetics. you don't worry rain-soaked Moose Krause Stadium. last year. about the niceties, you just do what you The 16th-ranked Irish (9-1) sloshed The weather obviously played a major 
Questions still hang like a cloud overhave to do, you just want to win." their way to the win behind junior factor in the game, as both teams had to 
Notre Dame's empty wrestling room,
attacker Randy Colley's five goals and combat slick conditions. "The weather 
vacated more than a year ago after thewas terrible, but we competed. That's 
abrupt cancellation of the wrestling
become the trademark of our team, 
program.
we're competitive as hell," Corrigan The shock has
said. 
subsided, the anger has 
ONE
The Irish jumped out to the lead two been tempered, but theminutes into the game as sophomore questions remain. 
defenseman Mike Iorio took a feed from Why was the program 
YEAR
junior attacker Robbie Snyder after 
eliminated so suddenly?
making a long run into the Falcons' Were there NCM rules
zone. Iorio also assisted on a Colley goal 

LATER
violations? Was there athree minutes later as the Irish climbed conflict between head L------.J
on top 3-1 after the lirst 15 minutes. 
coach Fran McCann and athletic
But Air Force was not ready to submit 
director Dick Hosenthal? What
to the rain and the Irish, as the Falcons happened to the $2 million endowmentscored the first two goals of the second 
from Bucky O'Connor that was
quarter to tie the game at three. 
earmarked for the wrestling program?
However, behind two more goals from Coaches, athletes and administratorsColley and one from junior midfielder each have their own answers.
Willie Sutton, Notre Dame regained the Hosenthal cites declining interest inlead, 6-4 at halftime. 
wrestling and pressure to meet the
In the second half with the weather NCAA's gender -equity requirements as
momentarily clearing, freshman the main reasons for the program's
attacker Kevin Mahoney hooked up with removal.
Colley to assist on each other's goals to 
Others. like former wrestler Jamie
begin the third quarter scoring and give 
Boyd, cite internal problems that
Notre Dame a comfortable 8-4 lead. 
destroyed the fabric of the program,After getting used to the conditions in although he refused to comment on thethe first half, the Irish really came out in specifics.
the second half and played aggressively. 
"It's not worth (revealing the
The intensity that had been missing was problems) because nothing will be donerediscovered. Notre Dame outhustled a about it," he said. "The biggest failure oFalcon team known for its scrappy play the athletic department was letting (the 
by scooping ground balls at every 
problems) go as far as they did." 
opportunity and dominating the statistic McCann, now a physical educationfor the game. "Our team really played teacher at Notre Dame, remains silentvery aggressively on ground balls today, about the situation. lie appears to be
that was coupled with good defensive play," noted see LAX/ page 20 the central see WRESTLING/page 18 
Spring football nears completion 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Coordinator Skip Holtz. "Lake is having Sports Editor an unbelievable spring." Also aiding Failla and McDougal in 
The Notre Dame football team began their attempts to move the Irish attack to show signs of a complete team only was the performance of tailback Lee two practices away from the Blue-Gold Becton. The six-foot 190-pound Game April 24. sophomore got the bulk of the carries at 
With the defense performing up to tailback and shined with a number of 
expectations most of spring drills, the long runs. offense took center stage during "Lee is a very elusive back," said Tuesday's scrimmage at Notre Dame Holtz. "He may not have the big play Stadium. capabilities of Heggie Brooks, but he is 
Both Paul Pailla and Kevin McDougal very talented." looked solid, leaving little evidence of Hindering the progress of the offense which has the edge in the search for a was the temporary loss of fullback Dean starting quarterback. Both players Lytle. The 6'3 240-pound junior spent equal time running the lirst and suffered a severely sprained ankle, and second team offenses. sat out yesterday's non-contact 
If any advantage could be given, it workout. lie is questionable for would have to lean towards McDougal. Saturday's scrimmage. He moved the offense effectively, Lytle's main competition Ray Zellars favoring tight ends Oscar McBride and made the most of his moment alone in Leon Wallace but still hitting the deep the spotlight, showing good hands on route on occasion. routes in the flats and running well 
Failla looked good throwing the short after the catch. Zellars also looked 
routes, but performed poorly when strong inside, running well and blocking looking to the deep receiver. lie missed for the other backs. wideout Derrick Mayes wide open on Zellars performance has brought one series, and threw two deep routes whispers of a possible move of Lytle to 
which were easily read by safety Bobby tailback. Lytle's tall stature hinders his Taylor. ability to stay low while hitting the gap 
A talented group of receivers linally in the line. His speed and style may -stepped forward with Lake Dawson serve the Irish better from the tailback catching a long touchdown pass, and slot where he could use his speed (4.43 McBride hauling in another. Mike Miller in the 40-yard dash). and Mayes also made significant Following Saturday the Irish have contributions. only a Tuesday practice scheduled "A couple of them (recievers) are before the the Blue-Gold game ends really emerging," said Offensive spring drills.. 


TRACK AND FIELD John Cowan and the Irish track squads face Ball State, Hillsdale tomorrow. 
see page 21 
D~@Dilll~ SPORTS 
TENNIS 
BASEBALL Will Forsyth leads the men's 
The Notre Dame baseball tennis squad in their final team will face Duquesne regular season watch. behind Ed Hartwell. see page 19 see page 20 









