


Friday, October 22, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 40 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

NO graduate student to research encephalitis in Haiti 
By JULIE BARRETI Associate News Editor 
Consider the size of the average mosquito; typically no bigger than the size of a dime. Now consider the fact that the mosquito is the leading cause of disease and disease-related ,, deaths in developing countries with malaria ranking number one. About one million people : die from malaria on the continent of Africa every year. statistics say. 
"People think of diseases such as cancer, AIDS and hepatitis as the leading causes of · ·· death in the world," said Father Tom Streit, a graduate student of vector biology at Notre Dame. "when the worst, most death-related diseases are carried by insects." 
Finishing work for his doctoral dissertation on the mosquito-carried disease encephalitis, Streit is preparing for a year's expedition in Haiti with the federally funded Centers for Disease Control (CDC). 
Streit, the only representative from the Atlanta-based group to be stationed in Haiti, is going as a medical entomologist to conduct experiments on a small village of people suffer­ing from mosquito-transmitted diseases, partic­ularly the disease filariasis which leads to ele­phantiasis. 
Approximately 30 percent of the Haitian pop­ulation where Streit will be working have fi­lariasis. a disease transmitted through the mos­quito, according to Streit. Filariasis, he ex­plained, is caused by tiny, parasitic worms that invade the lymphatic ducts of its host organism causing great swelling of parts of the body, known as the disease elephantiasis. 
With the help of a team of Haitian physicians, Streit will treat. the patients wit~ a fa.iJ:.ly--new 'Fr. Tom Streit, a graduate student in vector biology at Notre Dame, is researching the mosquito-carried disease encephalitis. He drug, lvermectm, a drug used m the U.S. to is also preparing to spend a year in Haiti with the Centers for Disease Control. treat heartworm disease in dogs, a disease closely related to filariasis. "I am very excited about this project," Streit 
World-renowned mosquito zoo offered at ND 
said. "Scientists rarely get to do anything direct, to get out of the lab and put their work By JULIE BARRETI 
ease), another 40 post-doctorals on recently was awarded the prestigiousto the test." 
the subject and a significant number Walter Reed Medal of Tropical
Streit added that he is excited to learn from Associate News Editor 
-------------------------of graduates who have gone on to do Medicine and Hygiene for his contri­the Haitian people themselves and their unique, great things in the field of entomolo­butions to the field.
Did you know that Notre Dame hasstrongly religious culture, as well. 
possibly the world's best mosquito gy. more commonly known as the Notre Dame's world-renown mos­
What is important to these people, Streit said, zoo, with over 40 species and 200 study of insects. quito zoo contains mosquito strainsis very different than in our comparatively sta­different strains of mosquitos? These Notre Dame alumni include from such places as Africa, Taiwan,ble and affiuent society. 

As Professor George Craig, an ento­the head of the Zoology Department Malaysia and right here in South"In the face of oppression, I am impressed by 
mologist and director of the Vector at Duke University, the president of Bend.
the holiness and value of family and faith of the Biology Laboratory at ND, puts it, the American Genetic Society and the There are about 25 people, com­(Haitian) people." he said. 
there are parts of Notre Dame that head of Insect-born Diseases at the prised of four professors and theStreit criticized the current Haitian govern­nobody knows about. National Institute of Health. remaining graduate and undergradu­ment for its neglect of the "ordinary person" 
The University of Notre Dame has Craig, who has been at the ate students, in the Vector Biology had over 40 Ph.D.s written on vector University for 36 years, is one of the see RESEARCH I page 4 biology (the study of insect-born dis-world's leading mosquito experts and see ZOO I page 4 
SOUTHERN 


Hesburgh to receive Roosevelt 
FRIDAY
CALIFORNIA 
3-7 p.m. Pre-pep rally gathering, Morris Inn Patio 4:30p.m. Marching band rehersal, Main building 


Freedom ofWorship Medal
FOOTBALL 
6:45p.m. Band step off for pep-rally, Band building 7p.m. Men's tennis: ND vs. USC, Eck Pavillion

WEEKEND 
By KATIE MURPHY and fifteen presidential appointments. He 
SATURDAY 
News Writer has also been involved in political policy. "He urged his country and his Church
7:30a.m. Band rehersal, Loftus Sports Facility
Schedule 

Father Theodore Hesburgh, University to meet the critical needs generate byof president emeritus, will join five other poverty, family disintegration, and moral 
9a.m. Pregame and postgame taiIgate party 
and grill, Morris Inn Patio 
9:30a.m. Hockey intersquad game, JACC, North Dome 
distinguished Americans today in receiv­neglect," said vanden Heuvel. Events 9:30a.m. AA Meeting, Center for Social Concerns I 
ing one of the Franklin Roosevelt Four The other medal recipients this year 9:15a.m. USC Band practice, Loftus Sports Facility 
performance, JACC, North Dame 
Dame for 35 years, will and Eunice and Sargent Shriver. 
Freedoms Medals. include former Secretary of State Cyrus
-

Hesburgh, who Vance, playwright Arthur Miller, former 11 a.m. Pom Pom Squad and cheerleading 
10a.m. Rugby ND altJmni game. Stepan Center Field 
as president of Notre United Nations Ambassador George Ball, 

11:30 a.m. Glee Club Concert, JACC, North Dome be honored with the The laureates were chosen based on 
11:30 a.m. Mass. Crypt Freedom of Worship their contribution to Roosevelt's vision of 
noon Shenanigan's performance, Stadium medal at a ceremony in freedom, which heoutlined in his famous noon Band concert, Main building steps Hyde Park, New York. Four Freedoms speech in 1941. 
12:45 p.m. Band step-off, Main building steps 
"A national leader in 

1:10 p.m. Pregame performance, Stadium 
the field of education... , Theodore Roosevelt called for "a world founded 
1:35 p.m. Kick-off, ND vs. USC, Stadium (he) has courageously Hesburgh on four essential freedoms": freedom of after game All class reunion, JACC, North Dome Gates 2and 3 
addressed the major speech and expression, freedom of wor­45 minutes Vigil Mass. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
social issues of our time," said William ship, freedom from want, and freedom 
after game 

vanden Heuvel, president of the Franklin from fear. SUNDAY and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, a non­The awards were first presented in profit organization based in the FOR 1951, and then expanded to the interna­
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11:45 a.m. Mass, Crypt Parish Church 
Library in Hyde Park. tional community in 1982. Each year, the
8, 10, 11:45 a.m. Mass, Bascilica of the Sacred Heart 
institute alternately honors Americans

10 a.m. Mass, St. Joseph's Chapel, Holy Cross College Hesburgh, who recently celebrated the and distinguished international figures.
5 p.m. Mass, St. Joseph's Chapel, Holy Cross College 
fiftieth anniversary of his ordination, is Hesburgh and the other recipients were the recipient of 127 honorary degrees see HESBURGH/ page 6
~~~~~~~~~ 

------------------------:--:---­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 22, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Going home is not so easy anytnore 
As we approach the upcoming vacation, many of us look forward to returning home, getting 

together with our friends and family, and catching up with what is happening to them. , --~'',
We all know that during our high school years we 
Eric Ruethling build strong friendships Photographer with classmates. These people become our sec­ond family, and in some cases, they provide more stability than the real family. However, as many freshman will soon discov­er, people can go through an extensive change over a short period of time, especially friends who are also going to college. Once close friends can suddenly become very different, and distant. Eventually, contact is lost with all but a few members of their once tightly-knit commu­nity. As I look back from when I left high school, two and a half years ago, I am shocked at the number of people with whom I have simply lost touc;h. Even those who I managed to mantain some contact with have changed since they were in high school. A couple have just switched majors. Andy Padon and Joe Rozelle had switched from chemical engineering to government/political science and history. Scott Faralli left piloting school for a art major, and later switched to history. Going the opposite direction, Chad Krueger became a double major in journalism and in government-international relations. Some stayed where they were. Shane Mehyers continues his study in mechanical engineering at Marquette. Mitch Genz became a journeyman plumber, and took over the actual working part of his father's business. Brian Davidson worked as a security guard until he had saved up enough for police science classes at a local tech­nical college three months ago Rob Cornell continues a general study at a local two year college while working to pay off his next semes­ter. 
Some shifted around. Brian Tollefson and Mike Welch joined the Air Force, and are now in Utah and Alaska. Brian Bowman picked up a few business classes at a community college, went off to work in Alaska in a cannery, and last I heard, wanted to go to a four year college -if he could afford it-or maybe write novels. Todd Mills left Beloit for Arizona and hasn't been heard from since. 
This is just a small example of how scattered the people I graduated with have become. Now when I go home, instead of having ten or fifteen people to call up and do stuff with, I call up about four or five, and every semester it seems to drop to a even lower number. 
These people who once were as close as fami­ly, now just wave from the other side of the street. It's hard to go home again, when all the people who helped to make it "home" are now gone. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Emily Hage Chrismpher Mullins Nancy Dunn Allison Ebcl Spons Graphics Jason Kelly Brendan Regan Etc. Viewpoint Chris Weirup Carolyn Wilkens Lisa Monaco Elisabeth Heard 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi•hcd Monday through Friday cxcrpt during exam and vacation period•-The Observer is a mcmbcr of lhc Associaccd Press. All rcproduction rights arC' reserved. 


Russia promises to stop dumping nuclear waste at sea 
MOSCOW 
working group would meet next 
Responding to international week in Moscow. In Tokyo, gov­pressure, Russia said ernment spokesman Masayoshi Thursday it would stop dump­Takemura said Japan welcomed ing radioactive waste at sea, Russia's "quick political decision but only if other nations help it accepting our nrotest." build a treatment plant. Sunday's dumping came just "Depending on how fast such days after President Boris Yeltsin a plant is built, we can say agreed with Japanese Prime whether further dumping at Minister Morihiro Hosokawa that sea will take place," the dumping, believed to have Environment Minister Viktor gone on since 1966, was harm­Danilov-Danilyan said at a ful. The dispute threatened to news conference. "If it takes chill relations that had improved more than a year and a half, during Yeltsin's visit to Tokyo Russia will almost certainly last week. Members of Japan's have to continue dumping." Liberal Democratic Party, which Last Sunday, a Russian mili­was the governing party until tary ship dumped 237,000 gal­August, reportedly urged Tokyo lons of liquid nuclear waste to freeze its financial aid to into the Sea of Japan, 330 Russia. Japan has offered $1.5 miles west of the Japanese billion in credits to Moscow. island of Hokkaido. Russia had Danilov-Danilyan said Prime planned to dump a second Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin load of liquid waste by Nov. 15 decided Wednesday to cancel the but came under strong inter­second dumping after extensive national pressure to stop the contacts between Russian and practice. That waste was Japanese officials. Hussian offi­
pumped onto a safer ship Thursday and would be stored there indefinitely, Danilov-Danilyan said. The waste comes from nuclear warships in Russia's Pacific Fleet. The environment minister said Japan promised to help pay for a plant to process the waste. He said he hoped 
Clinton offers to make peace in Georgia 
TBILISI, Georgia 

Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze received strong words of support from the United States Thursday and troops from Russia to protect railroads, but the response may be too little too late. Shevardnadze has repeatedly appealed to both Moscow and the West for help against two insurrections that threaten to dismember the former Soviet republic of Georgia. Russia has said it will not get involved in the fighting. On Thursday, Shevardnadze's government released a letter from President Clinton inviting him to Washington. "I have been following close­ly the tragic events unfolding in your country and want to assure you of my continued full support for your leader­ship and for Georgia's territorial integrity and sovereign­ty," Clinton wrote. 
Pesticide has possible links to breast cancer 
WASHINGTON 

A pesticide approved by the government for widespread use on fruits and vegetables may be linked to breast can­cer, scientific experts told a congressional panel Thursday. The recently confirmed head of the Environmental Protection Agency's pesticide program promised to study the pesticide. Emerging evidence shows the insecticide endosulfan and other estrogenic chemicals are associated with instances of breast cancer, although definite proof is lacking, several experts told the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health and the environment. EPA does not screen pesticides when approving their use on crops for chemical proper­ties that imitate the human reproductive hormone estro­gen. Some scientists suspect that estrogen causes cancer. 
INDIANA Weather NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 22. 
Friday, Oct. 22 
Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day_ 


OHIO 

FRONTS: 
...,.......... ........................... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

4,Q,~8.8Q (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~rrles si10w tee Sunny Pt Cloudy Cloudy 
VIa AssOCJBted Press Graph~esNet C1993 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
HIGH LOW 
City 
Athens Atlanta Boston Chicago Cleveland 

AP/Carl Fox cials have repeatedly expressed other countries also would contribute a desire to stop dumping of to building a plant, which he estimat-radioactive waste at sea. But they ed would cost $8.4 million. Viktor said they had no other choice Mikhailov, Russia's nuclear power because there aren't enough storage minister, flew Thursday to Tokyo to facilities and it's too dangerous to discuss financial aid. Danilov-keep the waste on leaky tankers in Danilyan said a Russian-Japanese port. 
Woolworth's to dose historical civil rights site 
GHEENSBOHO, N.C. 

Drinking a cup of coffee and eating a doughnut at the lunch counter of a live-and-dime don't seem like a big deal now. But a request for service by four black college freshmen at a Woolworth's 33 years ago has a prominent place in the history of the civil rights movement. The protest on Feb. 1, 1960, inspired blacks to stage sit-ins in communities around the country and helped lead to the end of desegregation in the South. On Thursday, children of the Greensboro protesters gathered at the downtown Woolworth's with about 50 other people to mark the store's passing. "Thirty-three years ago, I could not have come in here to have a cup of coffee and talk with my friends," said Franklin McCain Jr., whose father, Franklin McCain, was one of the four protesters. 
'What's Blood Got To Do With It?' 
GRAND HAPIDS, Mich. 

An 11-year-old girl had a question Thursday for a judge: "What's blood got to do with it? It's what's in your heart that counts." Jenny Yang had wondered that since last year, when she began fighting her birth parents' attempts to get her away from the couple she has lived with since she was 4 months old. During her first day on the witness stand, Jenny calmly described how her birth parents, Long Han Hong and Phan Hue Ong, physically and verbally abused her during her weekly, court­ordered visits. The girl said she fears for her safety if she's returned to them for good. Jenny testified that the Hongs "said that if I didn't call them mom and dad they would hit or slap me." She said Hong repeatedly slapped her when she said she "hated coming there. 
SHOWERS RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW  ICE  SUNNY PT, CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
H L 81 61 80 64 70 48 53 39 57 48  Dallas 65 Jerusalem 84 London 52 Los Angeles 86 Minneapolis 49 New York 68 Paris 48  52 64 39 64 34 54 4t  Philadelphia Phoenix Reno Rome Tokyo Toronto  78 61 88 60 60 45 75 59 66 59 59 50  

page 3

Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 




Newcomen Society to honor Malloy 
The Newcomen Society en­courages and stimulates origi­nal research and writing in the field of business history through a continuing system of grants, awards and fellowships. The group is also responsible for the maintenance of The Thomas Newcomen Library and Museum in Steam Technology and Industrial History. 
"The University of Notre Dame was selected this year to celebrate its 150 anniversary, celebrated by the University last year,"said Maloney. "Newcomen Society thought it was an appropriate time to rec­ognized the achievements of the University since it has been a consistent contributor to the free enterprise for an impres­sive period of a hundred and fifty years." 
At the dinner honoring Rev­
erend Malloy, he will speak on 
the history and the future plans 
of Notre Dame University and 
address how Notre Dame has 
survived the challenges of 
fledgling schools on the fron­
tier, such as fire, disease, na­
tional monetary panics, in 
order to increase and improve 
its curriculum, students and 
faculty. 
The University of Notre Dame 
was chosen along with Prince­
ton University, the Phoenix 
Suns, Huston Chronicles, and 
the Indiana University Medical 
Center. 

ByNICKRIOS 
News Writer 
For exceptional contributions to the American free enterprise system and the preservation of business history, Reverend Edward Malloy and the Univer­sity of Notre Dame will be hon­ored by the Newcomen Society of the United States on Oct. 27. 
"The University of Notre Dame was chosen for this recognition after studying the history of the university and reviewing the adversities it has overcome," said Iris Maloney, vice president of The New­comen Society. "The University of Notre Dame has gone from one that had more of the char­acteristics of a French boarding school to one nationally know with a student body of 10,000, a faculty of more than 1,000 and an alumni of approximately 90,000 people." 
The Newcomen Society pre­serves, protects, and promotes the American free enterprise system. The organization hon­ors corporate entities and other organizations which contribute to or are examples of success attained under free enterprise, and to recognize contributions to that system. They publish and record the histories and achievements of such enterpris­es and organizations. 
This Year 

Give the Gift of Tradition 
A Notre Dame Memory 
Limited Edition Handcolored Prints 
by Ken David 

On Sale O'Hara Room, LaFortune October 22 and 23 
(Formerly-Fisherman sWharfi On Eagle Lake Road just north of U.S. 12 Edwardsburg, MI. (616) 699-5113 
Michiana's Newest Restaurant Steaks -Prime Rib -Chops ­B-B-Q Ribs -Seafood -Pasta ­Salads -Lighter Fare-Daily Specials 
Reservations Suggested Open Tues-Sun at 5:00pm 




NOTRE DAME 
THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 

The Golf Shop at Notre Dame Located just off 31 N. ncar WNDU "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial Notre Dame gifts for every occasion (219) 631-6425 

Two Architecture students sit under a tree and enjoy the nice weather. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, 
ffiiJ©[L[Lw~ 

LOVE, 
THE RANDOM 8-CHICK 

AND REMEMBER, No BUTT PAINTING ALLOWED! 

~l fi~ 
tJ;l Clti~se Restaur11nt 
Open 7 Days A Week 
Sun ,Thurs-11:30 a.m.,9:30 p.m. Fri & Sat-11:30 a.m.' 10:30 p.m. 
_Mon,Sat,Lunch Special, 11:30 a.m.,) p.m. -... ~unday Buffet-11:30 a.m.~3 p.m. 
\! 7~•Carry Out Service ,~ •Largest Dine, In Chinese 
l

\ . Restaurant In Town -1\ · ~•2 Separate Banquet Rooms 

~:"' \ Douglas l

_i(~' jNoj! 
N 

255,6868~~McK_ml~e~-S-20 

313 W. McKinley Ave. 
•

Mishawaka 
~---------~--~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 22, 1993 

Research 
continued from page I 

and the resulting devastating 
poverty and environmental 
degradation that is gripping the 
country. 

Deforestation, overpopula­
tion, poor, cramped living con­
ditions and heavily polluted 
water systems are among the 
many interrelated social and 
environmental factors that have 
contributed to the spread of 
disease in Haiti, according to 
Streit. 

"Damage to the environment 
leads to certain diseases which 
thrive in such poor conditions," 
he said. 

"What (Christopher) Colom­
bus described as the most 
beautiful of the West Indies is 
Zoo 
continued from page 1 
Laboratory. 

"We cultivate the mosquitos from the egg stage to adult­h?od," ~aid _craig. "When they die, whtch ts about every six months, we start a new gen­eration." 
Craig added that scientists from all over the world come to the lab on sabbaticals to con­duct mosquito research. 
Craig is currently working on the invasion of the Aedes al­bopictus or tiger mosquito into the United States. 
The mosquito's presence was first discovered in Houston by a Notre Dame graduate student in 1985, according to Craig. And it was the detective work quitos came to the U.S. in the water collected in exported tires from Japan. Craig said. 
"In Asia, this highly domesti­cated mosquito is a major vec­tor of the virus of dengue or break-bone fever," Craig said. "There is no protective vaccine for this disease, either." 
The Asian tiger mosquito has been discovered as far north as Chicago and Baltimore, but Craig stated that the dengue fever the mosquito can carry is rare in the United States. 
And that's good news, according to Craig, because Chicago is a stone's throw from Notre Dame. 

Don't Drink 
not much any more," Streit added. 
"What Haiti can say to the world is that if the environment is not aggressively defended and protected, the current state of Haiti could become the state of the world," he added. 
Streit said he is pleased with President Clinton and the United Nation's efforts to return ousted Haitian President Bertrand Aristide and reinstate democracy in Haiti. 
"Many Haitians have stood up and some lost their lives be­cause of the U.N. and President Clinton's involvement there," he said. "There's no room to back out now; we are already too committed to helping the good people of Haiti." 
Reinforcing the need to help the Haitians, Streit recounted a story he heard of a Haitian lumberer who, when asked what he will do five years from now when most of the country's wood supply is gone, responded that God will provide. "And we, those that have the resources, are part of God's plan to help these people," Streit added. 
Although Streit admitted to being a bit biased in his con­cern and commitment for the 
FIGURE 2.-Reported dtstributton of Aedes albopictus '"the continental United States, 1992. (modtfled from Fteld Servtces Sectton, Medtcal Entomology-Ecology Branch, Centers tor Disease Control. Fort Collins, 
Colorado) 

Haitian people a.s a priest with 95 percent of the population there being Catholic. 
While working there, he also plans to serve as one of the two parish priests at the Holy Cross parish of St. Rose where he will reside during his stay. 
There is currently only one parish priest for a congregation of over 100,000 people, Streit said. His biggest concern at the moment in serving as parish priest is learning the language, a variation of the French lan­guage known as Creole. 
Streit plans to leave for Haiti some time after October 31, the deadline for the U.N. and Pres­ident Clinton's response re­garding the return of President Aristide to power in Haiti. But he will return to Notre Dame this May to graduate and de­fend his doctoral dissertation. 
Streit graduated from Notre ~arne with a degree in biology m 1980. He was ordained a priest in 1986 and served as assistant rector and then rector of Morrissey Manor for five years. 
In 1989, he entered the grad-

Not a Franchise• A Family Sun 4-9 p.m. Owned Business 
257--1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call 273--2EAT 
$ 2 offlarge pizza with Student ID 
uate biology program and is finishing his Ph.D. in May. 
Streit said he became inter­ested in vector, or insect-car­ried, diseases when working at a summer sports camp at Notre Dame while he was still in the seminary. He said one of the teenagers at the camp was from the Dominican Republic and had contracted malaria at home. 
He heard of the CDC Haiti program while teaching during the summer at Our Lady of Holy Cross College in New Or­leans, the Order having more than 80 clergy at St. Rose Parish in Haiti. 
"The application process was easy, too," Streit added. "All I had to mention was Notre Dame and Dr. George Craig." 
Craig, who Streit has worked under in the Biology Depart­ment at Notre Dame, is one of the world's foremost mosquito experts. 
Streit admitted that his desire to go to Haiti also has to do with his affinity for the tropics. 
"Basically, I like warm weath­er." 
of several Notre Dame students an~ professors, including Cratg, that uncovered the ori­gin and point of entry of the species into the United States. 
It was found, through a series of clues, that the mos-



and Drive 
CELEBRATION HALLOWEEN 
Largest Selection of 
Blood. Gore. Guts. Costumes. Masks. Makeup. Decorations and Accessories 
Two Locations: 
3919 Grape Rd * 277-1734 407 31/33 N * 273-4073 
WHEN AT ND, Do AS THE DoMERS Do 


~SHIRT'93 
The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumui Associatioll 
... All proceeds benefit charitable and student organizations .. 
Join the Irish in the Drive to No.I 
The Shirt '9l is ;1\·ailablc at the following reJ;Ji) outkh: 
• :\!) Hookstorc •Alumni Assm:i;Jtion 
• 
I ;tl:llJ'[l\lll' llllll UL'SK • V;Jr-,ity Shup 

• Irisll E.\ pres\ ll(l~pitality Cl'Jllcr (in the .IACC) 

• 
.\illllllli :\\SllCllillll 



Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Mandela condemns de Klerk, but will accept Nobel Peace Prize 
By DONNA BRYSON 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

Anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela harshly criticized the man with whom he shares the Nobel Peace Prize, saying Thursday that South African President F.W. de Klerk has the blood of children on his hands. 
When the Nobel committee announced its choice last Fri­day, Mandela refused to be pulled into the debate over whether a politician who spent most of his career upholding 
Costa Rica  $255  
Quito  $269  
Casablanca  $375  
Nairobi  $763  
Bangkok  $495  

t«rfares are e!Ch wey based on arom:ltrip ptJCt\a5e Old SlbJ<Ct to ctll~. Restnctioro apply. Taxes rot incll.ded. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
apartheid deserved to share the peace prize. 
But Thursday, when the question arose during a na­tionally televised interview, Mandela was blunt: 
"Mr. de Klerk must be strongly condemned for having authorized the killing of chil­dren in Umtata," the African National Congress president said. 
The government initially con­tested reports that the victims ranged in age from 12 to 19, but later accused the Pan­Africanist Congress, a militant anti-apartheid group, of train­ing teens as guerrillas. 
Mandela said Thursday that de Klerk erred by not acknowl­edging a mistake had been made and apologizing to the families of the dead. 
"And I strongly condemn him for that," Mandela said. 
But he refused to join calls for the Nobel committee to with­draw the award from de Klerk, and said he would be on hand 
1. 
Marsha K's 
Crafts & Balloons 

{f) $100 off any ( Balloon Bouquet Great balloon bouquets for SYR/Formals 
North Village Mall 273.. 1570 
Happy Birthday, 







Bets! 
Love, Coi,Dowd, Svmp, K, Schnor, Morris, & Amanda 
We Lo"e Vall! 


for the peace prize ceremony Dec. 10 in Oslo. 
"I am prepared to accept the award no matter who else has been given the award," he said. "This award comes from a country which assisted us ... when no other government was prepared to assist us. For me to refuse the award would be to snub a great friend." 
The Norwegian Nobel Com­mittee, in announcing the award, praised the black leader and the white president for working together to end apartheid and bring multiracial democracy to South Africa. 
"By looking ahead to South African reconciliation, instead of back at the deep wounds of the past, they have shown per­sonal integrity and great politi­cal courage," the committee said. 
De Klerk rose to power through the ranks of the Na­tional Party, which oversaw apartheid for more than 40 years. But when he became president in 1989, he said end­ing white domination was the only way to peace and imme­diately began dismantling apartheid laws. 
Murder ofPLO moderate threatens to ignite violence 
By NATI HARNIK 
Associated Press 
GAZASTRIP 
A third close associate of PLO leader Yasser Arafat was shot to death Thursday, raising fears that the Israel-PLO peace accord may ignite a vicious cy­cle of violence among rival Palestinian factions. 
The murder of Assad Saftawi -the third moderate Pales­tinian slain in the last month ­posed a challenge to Arafat, who must exert control over Gaza before Israel's army starts withdrawing in Decem­ber. 
Saftawi's 12-year-old son watched as his father was gunned down in his car. 
The boy ran out of the schoolyard and up to his fa­ther's car, when he noticed three masked gunmen on the other side. One fired a 9 mm pistol, and the bullet hit Saftawi just below the eye. 
"He turned to talk to them, but they shot again," said Ali Saftawi, still shaking with fear. 
Armed members of the un­derground Fatah Hawks ap­peared at Saftawi's house after the slaying and fired several shots in the air as a salute to the fallen Palestinian leader. 

DIG this crazy cup. PASS me some milk and SPIKE it with a little COKE. 

Happy 21st Birthday 

Love, Mom, Dad, Ryan 



University of Notre Dame Department of Music 

J\htn0~ MUSIQVE 
Concert 
Schola Musicorum 
Alexander Blachly, Calvin Bower, Daniel Stowe, Lewis Coleman with organist 
Gail Walton 
GREGORIAN CHANT 
& Organ works by Girolamo Frescobaldi (1583-1643) 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
10:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Admission free; open to the public 

They vowed to avenge his slay ing. 
"I will kill the assassins of m father," said another son, Ziad, 27, a bearded activist with th militant group Islamic Jihad. 
Palestinian leaders called fo urgent meetings among Pales­tinian factions to head off fur­ther violence in the wake of th historic accord with Israe signed Sept. 13 in Washington. 
"We are on the brink of a se­rious degeneration of the situa­tion," Hanan Ashrawi, spokes­woman for the Palestinia peace talks delegation, told The Associated Press. Others, like Gaza PLO official Zakariya al­Agha, predicted "civil war." 
The killing, claimed by a pre­viously unknown radical splin­ter group, cast a pall over the negotiations between the PL and Israel at the Egyptian Re Sea resort of Taba on imple­menting the self-rule plan fo Palestinians. 
"It is a major crime. Assa Saftawi was a fighter for peace, and if we do not move th peace process, things like thi will continue," said Nabi Shaath, a senior PLO officia who heads the Palestinian del­egation at Taba. 
CAMPUS BRIEF 
The lOOth anniversary of the death of Notre Daw.~·s founder,. Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C.; will be observed with a Mass Sunday, Oct. 31 at to 
a.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice presi· dent of Notre Dame, will pre­side and give the homily at the Mass. The chalice, pro• cessional cross, candles, and presider' s chair which will be used during the Mass all belonged to Father Sorin. Liturgical music will be sung by Notre Dame's Schola Cantorum accompanied by a brass ensemble. 
Sorin, the Holy Corss priest who also founded St. Mary's College and St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas, was born Feb. 6, 1814, in Ahuille; France. Ordained a priest at age 38, he came to the United States as a mis· sionary three years later. He died in the Presbytery behind Sacred Heart at Notre Dame on Oct, 31, 1893. 
54 Holes 
.of Indoor
M1n1ature Golf 
Over 100 Video Games! 
Open 7 Days a week 
Mo~.-Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fn.-Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. Sunday l p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Country: Shopping Center on Mckinley in MtsbaWaka 


254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 22, 1993 
Congress kills super collider plans 

By MICHELLE MITTELSTADT 
Associat<d Pr= 

WASHINGTON 
Congress officially killed the super collider Thursday, halt­ing construction on the giant science machine that was one­fifth complete at a cost of $2 billion. 
The $640 million sought by the Clinton administration to continue construction this year will be used instead to shut down the project under an agreement reached Thursday by House and Senate negotia­tors. 
"The SSC has been lynched and we have to bury the body," said Sen. Bennett Johnston, D­La., the collider's key Senate backer. 
The $11 billion atom smash­er's death was all but sealed Tuesday when the House 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 

also honored at a dinner last night at the FOR Library. "Break Free," a sculpture cre­ated from a section of the Berlin Wall and intended to rejected further spending. It marked the third time in 16 months and second time since June that the House had snubbed the physics project, which critics had branded as luxury science that was too costly in an era of huge budget deficits. 
Johnston and other senators who twice previously had re­vived the funding legislation decided that a third attempt was futile. 
"I really sort of still can't be­lieve it that the country won't fund it," said physicist Roy Schwitters, who has headed the project since 1988. 
"This kind of event and deci­sion is a major negative impact on world science, in my view," he said. 
In Ellis County, Texas, where the collider was being built, owners of condemned houses and others who have invested in businesses and land were 
symbolize freedom from fear, was unveiled at the dinner. 
The medal ceremony will take place today at St. James' Church in Hyde Park, where Roosevelt worshipped and served as Senior Warden until his death. 
wondering what would fill the vacuum left by tunneling for the atom smasher. 
"Right now, it's a billion-dol­lar hole in the ground. And they're arguing about whether to fill it back up," said Allan Oakley, a Waxahachie police officer and co-owner of the Kountry Cafe in nearby May­pearl. "People here have a hard time understanding how we could spend so much money and not follow through." 
But opponents of the Energy Department program, which has been buffeted by reports of cost overruns and allegations of management ineptitude, pro­claimed victory. 
"The super collider's dead, the taxpayers have saved $10 billion and I think that's good news for the American public," said Rep. Jim Slattery, the Kansas Democrat who orches­trated the anti-collider House campaign. 

Need the Perfect Gift Idea or Getaway? May we SlJ&3eBt,

The Bei8c:r t1ansio~ Inn @ fables Gallery 
Get away o~ get a gift certificate. Stay rn one ofour luxury rooms, lunch in our tearoom, en7oy afabulous Saturday night dinner in our State dining room, or select a work ofart fro"! Fables Galle~. Gift certificates available in any dollar amount. Plan now for a btrthday, an anmversary, honeymoon, or-just to say "I love you." 
LUNCHEON DINNER 
Tuesday thru Saturday Saturday evenings only 11:00 AM. -2:00P.M. 6:00P.M. -9:00P.M. 
(219) 256-0365 • 317 Lincoln Way East • Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 







HEY IRISH FANS 



Put these on your seat and stand up for the 
DOME 
Get them 
TODAY 
at Coach's Sport Bar 
2046 South Bend Ave. for $20 
FREE SHIPPING & HANDLING 
Send check or money order to: MR. PEABODY1S 15980 Woodbourne Ct. Granger, IN 46530 
Please allow 2 weeks for delivery. 


Remember: Gold Doesn't Tarnish! 
, ____._!__ 

I---·-·---_j 

------.~..~. ---~--· -­
--~---~-·---·--­




BUSINESS 
Friday, October 22, 1993 page 7 
Word of mouth draws NO students off campus 
By MICHAEL WORKMAN 
Business Writer 
Word of mouth is the most ef­fective marketing tool for off campus residences seeking to attract Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students, according to Chris Matteo, the owner of Lafayette Townhomes and Notre Dame apartments, . 
"Word of mouth and the qual­ity of our units is what attracts students to Lafayette," he said. "We do not have to do much advertising to attract students­they know that Lafayette is a hotspot." 
The owners of nearby apart­ment complexes of Lafayette Townhomes, Campus View, Castle Point, and Notre Dame Apartments, all say that student to student communication is their strongest form of ad­vertising. 

The same is true for Campus View Apartments, according to Dorene Muszer, a spokesperson for the complex. "Our stongest The Observer/ John Bingham advertising effort comes from Lafayette Townhomes are one of many off-campus alternatives for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. word of mouth. Since 1976 we 
students and faculty." Point. procedures. Nothing is left change."
have been open to students, Castle Point Apartments, When asked about any con­open, and because of this we At Castle Point, Frank re­

and we will continue to attract however, do not rely heavily on tractual problems that might rarely have contractual dis­ported a small increase in ap­

students because they talk to 

student leased apartments, ac­arise as a result of dealing with putes. If students have any 
plications from this year to theone another." 

cording to Gloria Frank the students, the complexes all said questions the answers are usu­last and said that security is not For most of these complexes manager of the complex. that they have had little trouble. ally in their leases." 
a problem because of their 24students represent a large pro­"We have a relatively mixed "The students are all pretty The number of applications hour attendant and guard gate.

portion of their current ten­

community," she said. "We do good. We usually do not have for leases beginning next year 
Matteo also said that
nants. At Campus View one not target students specifically, any major problems with the has stayed steady at all the Lafayette and Notre Damehundred percent of their busi­

but we do take out an add in contracts here at Campus apartments complexes even Apartments have not had a
ness is directly related to stu­the Notre Dame directory." View," said Muszer. with the increased number of decrease in the number ofdent leased apartments. 

Frank cited the proximity of About Lafayette Matteo said, reported off campus incidents. 
applications for next year. 
For Lafayette this is also the Castle Point to the campuses of "We have spent a great deal of At Campus View, Muszer said, "We have not had any de­case. Matteo said, "Lafayette is Notre Dame and Saint Mary's time in coming up with a lease "We get students anytime. After creases since we opened three100 percent students, while ND as one of the main reasons why that explains all things from three years of living on campus years ago in 1990," he said. 

Apartments is about 95 percent 

students are interested in Castle when rent is due to parking senior students are ready for a 
Troubled Lloyd's reorganizes Wal-Mart faces obstacles 
By DIRK BEVERIDGE gued the market was making A number of London's biggest 
in home-town rejection
Associated Press changes too quickly after pan­investment banks have already icking over the possibility that backed the formation of 16 cor­LONDON Lloyd's would collapse. Nearly porate groups ready to put up ByJEFF DONN of Gargantuan storefronts and 
Members of Lloyd's of London 13,000 Lloyd's members sided some $1.8 billion to back insur­Associated Press Lilliputian pricing to New voted Wednesday to radically with management while less ance policies at Lloyd's. England. Company spokesman change the way business is than 700 cast dissenting votes. In the past, the unlimited lia­GREENFIELD, Mass. Jane Arend said she was un­done at the troubled insurance "Throughout its 305-year his­bility of the personal investors, The downtown Wilson's de­aware of any other community market that is famous for cov­tory, this market has been built known as "names," gave partment store bustled in the country that has voted ering everything from movie on confidence," Lloyd's chair­Lloyd's credibility among Wednesda)O with the usual old­down a Wal-Mart. stars to jumbo jets. man David Rowland told an shipowners and others who timers and homemakers hunt­Downtown merchants, young 
For more than three cen­audience of about 1,100 in­turned to the market to protect ing for bargains in a town now professionals who fled big ci­
turies, Lloyd's has backed its vestors who gathered in the themselves against catastrophic jokingly dubbed a "Wal-Mart­ties, ex-hippies, social activists policies with the entire per­futuristic Lloyd's building in losses from storms and other free zone." and diehard Yankees joined sonal fortunes of its investors. London's financial district. disasters. In a public referendum the hands in an unlikely alliance But following Wednesday's But the old formula turned day before, this western that led the campaign against vote, Lloyd's plans to raise Rowland pointed out that a into big trouble for Lloyd's in Massachusetts community of rezoning land two miles outside money from corporations, recent string of billions of dol­the modern era of pollution 18,000 narrowly rejected a downtown for the Wal-Mart. which can get into the market lars in losses has damaged con­claims and high-dollar asbestos proposed Wal-Mart as too big, The local daily newspaper with limited liability. fidence in Lloyd's, leading lawsuits in the United States. powerful and threatening to and some pro-development 
This means companies will insurance customers for the their small-town way of life. forces rallied for the store. know in advance how much first time to wonder about the Lloyd's suffered losses worth "It's a very unique town, and The rezoning measure lost by money they can lose when dis­market's financial strength. the equivalent of $9 billion I don't think we need big busi­only nine votes, 2,854 to 2,845, aster strikes the drilling rigs, The introduction of fresh cap­from 1988 to 1991, and thou­nesses like that to come in and but town officials said they did skyscrapers, ships or anything ital from corporate investors is sands of investors found out take away from the beauty of not expect a recount. else they have insured. intended to restore confidence what it means to be liable down the town," said Tami Silk, a Just six months earlier, the 
Lloyd's members overwhelm­and prevent other insurance to their last cufflink. customer at Wilson's. town had voted by a 2-1 mar­ingly approved the new strat­companies from taking away Many of these once-wealthy It was the latest setback to gin in an advisory referendum egy, overcoming objections the best customers from people lost homes, fancy cars the nation's largest retailer in to zone for the Wal-Mart, but 


from some investors who ar-Lloyd's. 

MARKET ROUNDUP 

H rf~vf7' ~~ 
711193 8/1193 911193 10/1193 1111/93 
.. 

and artworks. its push to transplant its style opponents persisted. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS . 
CHICAGO 

tics. will also pay share, compared with a loss of Indiana a $500,000 fine, about $853.8 million. or $2.30 per share. three times as much as any other a year earlier. The loss in 1992 fine ever collected by the Indiana was largely related to insurance Securities ·• officials said claims from Hurricane Andrew. 



---~---~------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, October 22, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accc:nt Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint Mary'• Editor............. Jennifer Habrych 
Businesa Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either instimrion. The n~s is reponed as accurardy and objectively as possible:. Unsigned ecH­torials «present the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoinr Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcm.aries, lencrs and Inside Columns presem the views of the amhors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Edi10r-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Ma'Y's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-531.3 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-454.3 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-532.3 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

,. AN~ \t-\E.~ ALL LIV£ IN 

The Southern California Lonely Hearts Club 
Dear Editor:  
Perhaps you hadn't heard.  
Last month the Southern Cal  
football monogram club held a  
"reunion" to honor the USC  
players from the 60s, 70s and  
80s. 0. J. Simpson was the  
keynote speaker. Mike Garrett  
was master of ceremonies. Pat  
Haden told after-dinner jokes.  
Coach Larry Smith and some of  
his seniors also shared in the  
evening festivities.  
Most of the evening conversa­ 
tion and fellowship revolved  
around the ND-USC battles  
from the past. Mike Garrett  
('65) set the tone when he ob­ 
served, "I won my Heisman  
Trophy after I ran for 162  
yards against Notre Dame."  
0. J. Simpson ('68) chimed in:  
" I never lost to those guys.  
Notre Dame made me look  
great!"  
Pat Haden ('71) jumped in  
next: "The Irish had a pretty  
good quarterback [Joe  
Theismannl themselves. He  
even passed for 528 yards  
against us in 1971. But we still  
won the game. I guess I'm like  
0. J. [Simpson): I never lost to  
Notre Dame."  
Anthony Davis couldn't help  
himself. "None of you boys did  
what I did to Notre Dame. I  
brought us back from a 24-6  
half-time deficit and scored six  
touehdowns -all by myself- 
in the '74 Thanksgiving Day  
Massacre. We owned Notre  
Dame!''  
At that point, they asked that  
a player from. each graduating  
class share his 'Notre Dame  
experience' with his fellow  boys from South Bend.  
alumni. Players from the class- Players from the classes of  
es of ' 79· '80 and '81 joyfully  '83 and '84 didn't talk quite as  
entered the fray. They admitted  long, or with as much enthusi­ 
they had lost to Notre Dame,  asm. After being examined by  
but they usually beat Notre  Pat Haden, the '84 player had  
Dame. They described the glo­ to admit, in a whisper, that his  
rious feeling of whipping the  
DOONESBURY  


familiar with the experiences or feelings that you other guys have described tonight. My only memories are sad memories. Even when we were favored, Notre Dame always beat us." 
"Ditto for me," offered the '86 player. "And ditto for me, too," said the '87 player. 
At that point everyone turned to Rodney Peete, '88. They knew that the Detroit Lions quarterback would tell them of how the '88 Trojan team beat the No. 1 Irish when they clashed in the Coliseum. ''I'm sorry guys, I. .. I. .. we never beat Notre Dame. I'm terribly sorry. It still depresses me. I just don't know what to tell you. Please forgive us." 
They looked at the '89 player-representative. He just shook his head. He couldn't speak. Tears started welling up in the '90 player's eyes. He, too, couldn't speak. The '91 captain openly cried and then ran out of the room. Coach Larry Smith (0-6 vs. Notre Dame) committed hari-kari with 0. J. Simpson's steak knife. His dying words were these: "No one can say I was the coach when Notre Dame beat us 10 times in a row!" Anthony Davis called the mortician, and the "reunion" started breaking up. 
But the streak continues. Ten in a row. A decade of domi­nance. Ten years of ownership. No more Trojan fight song. No more white horse. No more "Conquest." 
And, did I mention this, con­gratulations on your Senate 
class had beaten Notre Dame seat victory over Pat Hacker. 
his freshman year, but never You're the only Trojan I've ever 
again. pulled for. The '85 player volunteered 
this: "We were the only SC class 
to go through school without PATRICK MURPHY 
beating Notre Dame. I'm not None Dame Class of 1976 
Casper, Wyoming 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Recovery can be a long and often painful process 
Editor's Note: The following letter is a response from the subject ofa profile in Monday's edition about a recovering al­coholic. The subject of the pro­

ltile requested anonymity and 
was identified only as 
"Brenda.· 
Parts of Monday's article were cut as a result of an edit­ing error. 
Dear Editor: 

The article that was pub­lished about a recovering alco­holic (The Observer. Oct. 18) was misrepresented. The inter­view story should have appeared with the larger arti­cle announcing Saint Mary's Alcohol Awareness Week as a personal testimony of one stu­dent. 
The article was pieced to­gether in a way that misrepre­sents the life of recovery. I would hate for anyone to un­derstand the program of Alcoholics Anonymous by what was presented in the article. The specific events in my life, as well as my quotes, were taken out of context and do not present my true-story. 
Recovery is a much deeper process than a couple of events in succession. It is a way of life that cannot be represented with a couple of quotes and passages taken out of context. I urge readers to disregard this article as an exa~pple of recov­ery. 
"BRENDA" South Bend 
''The good news is that 
Jesus is coming back. The bad news is that he's really pissed off." 
-Bob Hope, Television Funnyman 

--~ ------·----------------------------------------------------------a---~ 
Friday, October 22, 1993 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
GARY CARUSO CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Something kinda smacked of 'good ole boy Big Business' 
Notre Dame solicitation of­the national budget debt, the fended me new law... " Obviously the author was setting us readers 
Earlier this year the book up for some rmancial kill. about the Tarnished Dome of­Sure enough, under number fended most Notre Dame alum­one, he writes, "The most ni and friends. It seems that talked about change under the ND is a convenient target for new Tax Law is that your tax anyone who wants to attain rates are going up. And, not instant notoriety. Another fa­only did they go up, but they vorite subject of criticism is the are retroactive back to January institution for which I have of 1993." worked seventeen years -the 
U.S. Congress. Those who un­Unless my name mistakenly justly condemn Congress, di­was included with the rectly or indirectly, by twisting DeBartolo's of the contributing and omitting facts personally world, I have news for the de­annoy me. velopment people. My rates 
Republicans, who could not at­more politically sensitive and will not be increased! In fact, 
Forgive me for being sensi­tain a majority status at the more positive tone in that over 80 percent of Americans tive, but I take great offense at ballot box since the 1950s, are correspondence. The will have no increase. those who bash Congress... attempting to gain control of "Memorandum" to "Special Furthermore, applying the law 
recently Ross Perot, the cable Congress through nasty, per­Notre Dame Alumni and for the entire calendar year is 
television companies, and most sonal attacks. They are cur­Friends" neither made me feel not unusual, especially when recently a Notre Dame official. rently driving the public rela­special nor like a friend. Its ini­the government approves cost­Sometimes these bashers' tions bandwagon that Ross tial sentence had a Perot­of-living adjustments and other words are calculated, deliber­Perot and others use to dis­sounding opening with, "Well, it benefits in legislation that is fi­
credit Congress. finally happened!" 
ate. On other occasions a sub­nally approved later in any conscious slip of the tongue or given year. Nobody ever ar­impression left by an underly­No institution is immune from Also included in the first gued for the government to ing tone in spoken or written disreputable people or scan­paragraph is the sentence, delay that retroactive action! 
communication can effectively dals. Consequently, Congress "And, regardless of your politi­convey just as negative a feel­has definitely taken more than cal affiliations or feelings about Page two of the letter hits at ing. its share of criticism lately. the competence of the adminis­the heart of the author's inten­
Come to think of it, so has tration and Congress, the new tions. The "New Tax Law" (cap­If these bashers can degrade Notre Dame this year. But law will have a very significant italized in his letter, which is shouldn't we who admire and impact ... " I personally take of­
the institution, then they can grammatically incorrect since 
successfully make various love ND be a little more sensi­fense at the tone set here. The the official title is neither claims to rally support for their tive to misleading information author most assuredly implies "New" nor "Tax") now "makes positions. Republican Minority that tends to bash others? that at a minimum he has little a gift of appreciated property 
Whip Newt Gingrich (soon to be Certainly I at least expected confidence in the current gov­an ideal way to support Notre 
Minority Leader beginning in those sensitivities from the ND ernment competence by select­Dame." The financial jugulardevelopment folks who recently ing the word "competence." 
1995) first embraced the idea of has been struck! 
tearing down Congress in the sent a fund-raising solicitation mid-1980s. to me. Might not a little rewording in Finally he mentions the "con­the positive make for a more
j~l~ll"ll ....~ \,1.\.)\ll\~0..' . n ~"'\n' troversial" 4.3 cents fuel tax as Today his followers believe Someone in the Notre Dame pleasant "memorandum?" I well as the new accounting
administrative proofreading would suggest, "And, regard­
that the institution must be de­proof requirements. ND will 
stroyed before they can rebuild department should have made less of your political affiliations now be required to ac­
a special effort to assure a or feelings about how to reduce
it according to their liking. knowledge with a receipt the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hey, I worked hard to become a Domer 
Dear Editor: worked their asses off in high did work hard. The fact that 
I am writing in response to school. We took the hardest alumni want to send their chil­the letter to the editor by courses and got the best dren here only reinforces the Andrew Dekever on Oct. 14 grades. I don't know about satisfaction that one gets from which stated that "NO students Dekever, but my parents didn't the Notre Dame experience. hate 'Rudy' because it serves as buy me my grades, fill out my Only 25 percent of students are a reminder that some people applications, or take my tests alumni children. Does this got to ND through hard work, for me. Most of the people here, mean that the parents of the and not because of who their including myself, did it on our other 75 percent of the student parents are." I take offense to own. I don't know how Dekever body earn six figure salaries? the assumption that "a large can say what he does. Does he I'm sorry, but I don't fit into ei­chunk" of students are here know the whole student body ther one. I believe I am with the because their parents are grad­and the circumstances of our majority when I say I worked uates of Notre Dame or "earn a admission? my butt off to become a Domer. Dear Editor: six-or seven-digit salary". Just because some people do JEREMY DIXON It is no wonder most resi­
The majority of the people I get in because of connections Freshman dents of South Bend dislike in­know are here because they doesn't indict those of us who Alumni Hall tensely Notre Dame students. People expect a little bit more of students from a "Christian" University. The destructive, disrespectful element of stu­Dear Editor: probably resulted from the at­throughout. the rest of our dents that we encounter give 
I feel the need to respond to mosphere of a cold football country. It seems this point the whole University a bad the letter written by Andrew game and the mindset of a should come to the attention of name. DeKever appearing in the Oct. bunch of people wanting to the administration. If we are As a resident of an apart­14 issue of the The Observer make some noise. Although this isolated in an elite atmosphere, ment complex where many stu­DeKever makes the assumption booing was indeed rude, we will not be able to under­dents live, I have witnessed 
Wrong assumption, but right point 
that Notre Dame fans booed DeKever's assumption is com­stand and help people unlike first-hand deliberate, uncalled­Sean Astin and "Rudy" at the pletely false. ourselves after graduation. for vandalism such as destruc­Pitt game "because it serves as Thus, the administration tion of flower gardens of some a reminder to them ND stu­However, DeKever raises an should take steps to enhance residents by Notre Dame stu­dents) that some people got to important point relating to the the economic diversity of our dents. The flowers were pre­ND through hard work." diversity of Notre Dame. First, students by increasing financial cious to the residents and according to DeKever, the aver­aid to those students who qual­sometimes the only source of 
While I can agree that booing age income of an ND family is ify to go to school here, but joy in their lives. The mean stu­in general is rude, DeKever's $80,000. Second, the average cannot afford it. dents have absolutely no re­conclusion that the treatment of response of a Notre Dame stu­spect for older people. The stu­those two individuals was dent in a "recent survey" as to Thus, perhaps DeKever's dents throw trash wherever caused by a resentment of the average income of an points should be directed not they feel like it -in hallways, Rudy's incredible life is com­American family was $60,000. only to Notre Dame students, on sidewalks, in parking lots ­pletely unreasonable. How but also to those individuals in with no regard for others who DeKever reached such an un­From these two points, it is the administration responsible try to have a clean, decent founded conclusion is beyond obvious that Notre Dame's stu­for the allocation of funds. place to live. It makes one me. Why then. was there so dents are relatively wealthy wonder from what kind of much booing? and from the second point, we TIM MCFADDEN homes these students come. Although it is impossible to fail to realize the relatively Sophomore They seem to have no moral. pinpoint a precise answer. it poorer economic conditions Dillon Hall mature, or Christian home 
........ 

-' 

···~~·~·~·-·········~· 
. -·····-····· ~--------~---------~~~~ 
exact amount of a donation (minus any service or consid­eration in exchange for the gift}. He uses the example that a $75 donation that includes an event with a $35 dinner will only be a $40 deduction. 
To me it makes sense that maybe the government should start cracking down on tax cheaters who take more de­ductions than what they are worth! My question is who will calculate the value of the privi­lege to apply for football tick­ets? 
I close by saying that as one of those guys who dedicated himself to public service, I per­sonally was insulted by the tone of the letter. This incident may have been innocent and unin­tentional, but someone should have played editor on the politi­cal content. It smacked of "good ole boy Big Business" with its privileged status elite who believe that they can be above The Law. It sounded like the people to whom the letter was intended were those who maybe shouldn't help reduce the deficit. Mter all, they were not helping to reduce it with all the deductions under the Old Law. 
And, maybe my last para­graph sounds to the develop­ment people like their letter sounded to me (incorrect capi­talizations and all). 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73. works in Washington, D.C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the U.S. House of Representatives. His column appears every other Friday. 


training. 
I have always thought that Notre Dame was very selective in their admission policy, but the bad example of the current group of students makes me wonder if it really is a "tar­nished dome." The bad stu­dents who are so belligerent, aggressive, and mean certainly make the dome more tarnished than ever. 
When someone tries to be friendly and pleasant by speak­ing to Notre Dame students, they are simply ignored and receive no acknowledgement from the super rude students. 
Maybe Notre Dame could ini­tiate a required freshman course in public relations and mature conduct and respect for people and property, since so many students seem to have no good home training. Their con­duct reflects not only on them­selves but on the kind of homes and parents from which they come. With the hope that something can be done to make Notre Dame students behave better. 
DANIEL DECKER 
South Bend 




friday 
events 
Pre-USC Bash, sponsored by SADD, Dancing, free food and mocktails, 9:00pm to 1:00am, The Loft 
Irish Pep Hally, 7:00pm, JACC 
Men's Tennis vs. Southern Cal. 7:00pm, Eck Tennis Pavilion, free admission with Blue & Gold Card Madison Oyster Bar, Cat Man and the All Niters (blues), 9:30 pm, 288-3776 
Public Lecture and Discussion featuring Matthew V. Storin. editor of the Boston Globe, 12:15 pm Hesburgh Library Lounge 
sablrday 

Medieval Drama performance. performed by students in ENGL 4342, 9:30 am, Fieldhouse Mall Hoosier Beer Can and Breweriana Show, 10:00 am to 3:00pm. American Legion Post 357, (616) 647-6149 Ogenias Pow Wow. Traditional Indian Crafts, 12:00 pm, Baker Junior High School, 827-8774 Notre Dame Marching Band pre-game performance, 
11:00 am, Administration Building Notre Dame vs. USC, 12:40 pm kick-off 
sunday 
Mill 
Exhibit, James Wille Faust: Recent Paintings, Snite Museum of Art, 2:00-4:00 pm, Annenburg Auditorium 
movies 
Unlvarslty Pll'k East 
Demolition Man. 7:15, 9:50 
Gettysburg. 7:00 
Dazed and Confused, 7:30, 9:40 
Joy Luck Club, 8:00 
Judgment Night, 7:00, 9:30 
The Program, 7:00, 9:20 
University Park West 
Age of Innocence, 8:00 For Love of Money, 7:15, 9:20 Nightmare Before .Christmas, 7:45, 9:40 

The Observer • ETC. Friday, October 22, 1993 
an 

Discover the won 

You poor unfortunate souls. Yes, you -the students who are staying in, of all places, South Bend, for fall break -stop your fretting! Despite what many think, South Bend and neighbor­ing areas have much to offer, even to a college student. Check it out for yourself: 
The Arts 
•Leighten Gallery 
This decorative art gallery fea­tures 16 exhibits from the collec­tion of the Copshaholm Historic House Museum of the Nothern Indiana Historical Society. Tours are offered Tuesday through Sunday. 808 W. Washington St. in South Bend; 235--9664. 
•South Bend Regional Museum of Art 
A permanant collection and other exhibitions that document the art of Indiana, the region and the nation are housed in this museum. 120 S. St. Joseph St., in the Century Center, in South Bend; 235--9102. 
•Moreau Galleries 
This gallery offers displays of local, regional and national con­temporary art works . In addi­tion, student and faculty exhibits are featured. Off U.S. 31 on the Saint Mary's campus; 2284-­4655. 
•Snite Museum of Art 
This Notre Dame art gallery houses a collection of 19,000 works by artists such as Rem­brandt, Boucher, Rodin and Me­strovic; 239-5466. 
Theater 
•Bendix Theater 

A variety of programs including theater, dance and musical per­formances are featured here. In addition, there are lectures, music recitals and films. Call for weekly events. 120 S. St. Joseph, in hte Century Center, in South 
Notre Dame Club ofPhiladelphia offers a variety offun activities 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Ediwr 
For once, students are miss­ing the stir fry and California Eldarado Nachos from the din­ing hall. They're tired of the mall, television with no cable, and 12 a.m. parietals. It's late Thursday night, and truthfully every student who stayed for October Break is sick of South Bend. 
It's precisely this time that the spontaneous move should arrive, and students should feel compelled to take drastic mea­sures by roadtriping to Philly. 
The Notre Dame vs. Navy game is Saturday, Oct. 30 at 
12:10 p.m. Sure, it's only Navy, but why miss a chance at watching the soon-to-be num­ber one, national championship team -our team! So pack the bags, stock the cooler and grab the keys. 
Directions are never easy, but this doesn't seem too hard. Take Indiana Toll Hoad to Ohio Turnpike to Pennslyvania Turnpike. Take exit #26 to Route 76 (Schuylkill Expressway). Travel East on Bend; 22884--9711 
•Broadway Theater League 
National touring companies of top Broadway theater are spon­sored by the group at the Morris Civic Auditorium. Call for weekly events. 120 W. La Salle Ave .. , Room 505; 234-4044. 
•Morris Civic Auditorium 
Broadway shoes, comedians and concerts are presented at this auditorium. The Auditorium also presents the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 211 N. Michigan St. in downtown South Bend; 284--9198. 
•Presbyterian Players 
South Bend's oldest community theater group, the Presbyterian Players, present four per­formances a year at the First Presbyterian Church. 333 W. Colfax Ave. in South Bend; 234-­0802. 
•South Bend Civic Theater, Inc. 
This community theater group presents six performances each year at the Firehouse. 701 Portage Ave. in downtown South Ben;; 234--1112. 
Historical Sites 
•100 Center 
Once a brewery, the 100 Center now features shops, restaurants adn theaters. The Princess of Mishawaka, which is a stern­wheel, double-deck passenger boat that offers cruises, also is docked at the 100 Center. 700 Lincoln Way West in Mishawaka; 259-7861. 
•The Beiger Mansion 
This four-level, Victorian neo­classical mansion is constructed with Indiana white limestone and features large Corinthian columns. A contemporary Amer­ican art gallery, open from Tues­day through Saturday, is also lo­cated there. 317 Lincoln Way East in Mishawaka; 256--0365. 

Route 76. Then take the exit for Route 676 (Vine Street Expressway) and keep traveling East. Take any exit for various streets in Ph illy. This street runs through the middle of Center City. 
Once there the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia has a vari­ety of activites planned for stu­dents, alumni and fans. 
Friday 

11:30 -NO/Navy Lucheon at Hotel Atop the Bellevue( Broad and Walnut Sts.); Special guest Rocky Bieier 
7:30 p.m. -Pep Rally at Wyndham Franklin Plaza (17th and Race Sts,), complete with emcee Tug McGraw, Cardinal O'Hara High School Guesy Band, Cheerleaders, Leprechaun, Bookstore East and visitng NO celebrities. Free snacks and cash bar. $2 per person and $5 per family. 
Time T.B.A. -Post Pep Rally Party at the Irish Pub (20th and Walnut Sts.). Cheap specials on food and drinks for those who wear NO garb. 
Saturday 

9:30 a.m. -Pregame tailgate at the lloliday Inn Hotel. 
11:30 a.m. -Join the McKay Pipe Band for "step-off" to the game from Packer Ave. to Veterans Stadium. Cash and and food available. $3 per per­son or $5 for both pregame and post game evetns. 

12:10 p.m. -Fightin' Irish vs, Middies at Veterans Stadium (Broad and Pattison Sts.) 
Time T.B.A. -Postgame tail­gate begins by following the Pipe Band to the party at the Holiday In Hotel. $3 per person or $5 per person for pregame and postgame. 
Sunday 

9:00 a.m. -ND Club Mass at the Catherdral of Saints Peter and Paul (18th and Race Sts.) 
Host Hotels at Wyndham Franklin Plaza (215-448-2000) and Hotel Atop the Bellevue (800-221-0833) will have spe­cial Notre Dame student week­end rates. 
"We're trying to make stu­dents feel as welcome as possi­ble," said Terry Squyres, coor­dinator of the weekend's activi­ties. "Everyone who's a Notre Dame fan is invited." 
Take her up on the oiTer. 

•Northern Indiana Historical Society 
Established in 18867, this soci­ety presently operates a visitor center, historical gardens, and two museums that are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. 808 W. Washington Ilis­toric District; 235-9664. 
•South Bend Ilistoric Districts 
There are more than 6,000 his­to.rically and architecturally important buildings featured in the city's two national and four local historic districts. The fol­lowing are a few of the historic sites. 
•The Book Inn at the Cushing House 
Built in 1872, is a Second Em­pire style building. Located at 508 W. Washington St. Tours are available. Please call 288-1990 in advance. 
•Cathedral of St. James 

Built in 1894, is a Gothic He­viva! style church that is noted for its four Tiffany stained-glass windows, including the round rose window in the east facade. Located at 117 N. Lafayette in South Bend: 232-4837. 
•Copshaholm Historic House Museum 
Constructed in 1895, is a prop­erty of the Northern Indiana Historical Society. This museum­has 38 rooms that contain origi-1 nal furnishings. Also located on the grounds is the Leighten Gallery and a Queen Anne style carriage house that currently serves as a visitor center. Tours are offered Tuesday through Saturday. Located at 808 W. Washington St. in South Bend: 235-9664. 
•The Oliver Inn 

An 11 bedroom historic house built in the Queen Anne style. 
--------------------~-----­

Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • ETC. 
• 
n 


ers of South Bend 
Tours are available by appoint­lment. Located at 630 W. Wash­ington St. in South Bend: 232­4545. 
•Tippecanoe Place 
Listed on the National Register of llistoric Homes and contains 40 rooms and 20 fireplaces. Lo­cated at 620 W. Washington Ave: 234-9077. 
•Queen Anne Inn 
An 1893 Queen Anne style home listed on the National Reg­ister of Historic Places. Tours are offered. Located at 420 W. Washington St: 234-5959.The Outdoors 
South Bend City Parks 
•Potawatomi Park 
OtTers four tennis courts, base­ball fields, picnic and playground area, botanical gardens and a zoo. Located at 500 Greenlawn Ave. 
•Riverwalk 
Features parks, restaurants, specialty shops, and fishing sites along an eight mile path. Follows the St. Joseph River from Veteran's Memorial Park on Northside Boulevard to Leeper Park. 
•Leeper Park 
Features 15 lighted tennis courts, a baseball and football field, a boat launch and fishing area, a rose garden, playground 
equipment, and a picnic. area. Located at Michigan Street and St. Joseph River, just north of 
I 
downtown. 
•Rum Village Park 
Offers recreation areas, two picnic shelters and sites, as well as a year round nature center with trails. Located at West Ew­ing and Gertrude streets. For further information call 235­9455. 
•Belleville Gardens Includes four tennis courts, a volleyball court, a driving range, basketball courts, playground equipment, a football and soccer field, and softball diamonds. Lo­cated at Evergreen and Meadow lanes in Belleville. 
•Howard Park 
Offers scenic walkways along the St. Joseph River, the Vietnam Memorial and an ice skating rink. 613 E. Jefferson Blvd. 
•East Race Waterway 
Serves as a sire for national and international kayaking com­petitions, plus recreational raft­ing. Visitors also can walk and jog along its riverside trail. Niles Ave. and Jefferson Blvd. 
St. Joseph County Parks 
•Bendix Woods 
Open year round, Bendix Woods otTers 175 acres of picnic areas, pavilions, tubing facilities and more than five miles of na­ture and cross-country skiing trails. 32132 State Road 2, 12 miles west of South Bend, south of New Carlisle; 654-3155. 
•Ferretie-Baugo Creek Park 
Offers· opportunities for swim­ming, picnicking, hiking, fishing, cross-country skiing, canoeing and tubing. 57057 Ash Road, just north of U.S. 33 in Osceola; 674­9765. 
•St. Patrick's Park 
Features a sandy beach and facilities for swimming, canoeing, cross-country skiing and tubing. 50651 Laurel Road, west of U.S. 31 West, in Clay Township; 277­4828. 
State Parks 
•Potato Creek 
Has opportunities for swim­ming, fishing, bicycling, canoeing, paddleboating, hiking and cross­country skiing. There are also horse-backing trails. State Road 4, 4 miles east of North Liberty; 656-8186. 
25 50mi 0 25 50 75 km 

Nearby Attractions 
•Amish Acres 
A restored Amish farm that fea­tures guided tours, horse and buggy rides, a musical theater, and a restaurant. Located at 1600 W. Market St (U.S. Route 6) in Nappanee; 773-4188. 
•Farmer's Market 
Features fresh produce, an­tiques, handcraft items, and a restaurant. Open year round on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Satur­days. Located on 1105 Northside Blvd. in South Bend; 282-1259. 
•Battell Community Activity Center 
Offers educational, recre­ational, arts and crafts classes, social activities, special events and community services. Also offers performances by the Osceola Community Players and The Company Repertory Player. Located at 904 N. Main St. in Mishawaka; 258-1667. 
•Shiojiri Niwa 
A Japanese garden which is the result of the friendship between Mishawaka and its sister city, Shiojiri, in Japan. Located at 1000 E. Mishawaka Ave., in the Merrifield Park Complex in Mishawaka. 
•Potawatomi Botanical Gardens 
Beautiful gardens that are filled with plants from around the world. Also hosts three flower shows a year. Located at 2105 Mishawaka Ave. in South bend. For further information call 284­9442. 
•Potawatomi Zoo 
Open year round and features zebras, brown bears, reindeer and Siberian tigers. Located at 500 S. Greenlawn Ave. in South Bend; 235-9800. 
DIRECTIONS: 
page 11 


.. usc:~give 
.... 'd. fliECt 
. ·'·« --•·· .......... _.,._. --..._.•. --·;@j' 
LJU;L:H~-and uscfbotbalf teams 


atU<rrutv~-1Ot-L. ~Jt sfuden~ volUiiL r-~p."f~/~tr~ref;1'\e;'tW,O:t¢ti:V:ersitiief;.-Win'wQrk~oge~r in >ll*~i'Ii?-i"'~\?tt:'<t@-........""'"''~-..,"'-the ·~jvE!$• ofhospitallz¢d 
~Q;-lrJ.;f.,;,QSi·.··f\IllgBU~~ a.na Soulh:Bend•...,.., . . -. --~~-:loi''"'·'·':o•u. .... ,~..~ ri~H-•~,.H--',' •1 _·~~Make a -•-Difference tUlYP.cj,~j~a<i,Ua~----Studellts:(HUGS) J:,if~:<:l.\ddler$. (tLC) """"''...t.·..~·~'·Ft""~ })ug arl<f C\.ld3le..chil­
of' hospitals ill thei.r 
"·:E.. ~­

• 
From 1-76 West: Take exit 45, Sports Complex, Broad Street, and proceed south on Broad. Or, take exit 46, Packer Avenue, and proceed either west on Packer or south on Darien Street, then head west on Pattison Avenue. Or, take exit 43A, follow 26th Street to Penrose Avenue, then head east on pattison. 

• 
From Walt Whitman Bridge East: Take exit 468, 7th Street South, then head west on ­either Packer Avenue or Pattison Avenue. Or, take exit 45, Sports Complex, Broad Street, to Broad Street South. 

• 
From 1-95 South: Take the Sports Complex, Broad Street exit and proceed north on Broad. Or, take the 1-76 East, South Jersey exit and proceed west on Packer Avenue. Or, take the 1-76 West, PA 291 Central Philadelphia exit. Proceed over George Platt Bridge, then bear right onto Pattison Avenue. Proceed east on Pattison to Broad. 

• 
From 1-95 North: Take the 1-76, South Jersey exit to Front Street, then head south on Front and west on Packer Avenue or Pattison Avenue. Take the Broad Street PA 291 exit, then proceed north on Broad Street. 


Source: RAND McNALLY. The Official Baseball Mas, 1993 Observer Graphic: BRENDAN REGAN 
. ------------~---­
page 12 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, October 22, 1993 
Would You Be Able to Sleep through the Holocaust? 
On the evening of November 
forcibly from blocking the side­down things;/..../Because the 9, 1938, the Nazis struck at walks the women use on their Holy Ghost over the bent/ Germany's Jews. Synagogues way to an abortion, have com­World broods with warm breast
Father Robert Griffin 
were destroyed; the Jewish sa­plained of being roughly han­and with ah! bright wings." cred books were burned; thou­dled by the local police; but Because the universe, sands were arrested, hurt and Bellers lo a Bonefy 9orf after a night in the slammer, through the Mystical Body loved killed. It was called they are free to walk. by Christ, has become sacra­Kristallnacht (Night of the Mickey among the Mexicali mental, even the tired old sins Broken Glass), because glass roses, studying liberation theol­of a Church that takes pratfallstry to save my neighbors, help most essential gift for a good
was smashed all night long, the ogy, is greatly on my con­can be a springboard to grace.
them in any way possible. If writer is a "built-in, shock­
glass of Jewish homes and busi­science. He will be taught Christians who have consented 
necessary, I'd fight the Nazis to proof sh-t detector." This, he
nesses and places of worship. lessons on how human beings by their silence to the deaths of
the death."' says, is the writer's radar, and
In a book written for children, like me have allowed other hu­children, and all others in a
Robert Coles says he has all great writers have had it.
"The Holocaust: A History of man beings to suffer piteously, state of grace, can. with their
asked children what they would After listening to Rush
Courage and Resistance", Bea just because we're chicken. acts of love, light candles in the 
do in certain hypothetical situa­Limbaugh and Jesse Jackson
Stadtler takes her readers, step Perhaps he will hear how often heart of God as though it were
tions: What would you do, if you arguing from opposite corners,
by step, through the rise of the Roman Catholic Church, their grotto beloved of the 
saw a Klan mob attacking a telling me what to think, I de­
Hitler. Of Nov. 9, she wrote: which I have prayed for him to night.
black child, say, or a grownup? cided that to be streetwise. I'd
"Many Jewish homes were love with all his heart, has be­This is the Good News of
"Almost invariably, the chil­need at least a Geiger counter
robbed, looted, or destroyed; trayed Christ by standing with Jesus Christ. Michael in the
dren... declare their (hypotheti­to decide whether it was sh-t or
and many Jewish men were the power structure that has land of Montezuma's revenge,
cal) willingness to fight directly Shinola that, one or the other
hauled to concentration camps oppressed the poor. are you listening? "How little
and hard in the cause of justice. was trying to bury me in.
during the night and morning Prayer and poverty, changing we know what a human life
I put that word in parenthe­Last week. Mickey Flynn. N.D.
of Kristallnacht. Do you think it Mickey, could make him sensi­really is-even our own," wrote 
ses...out of a sad doubt about '93, on a project in Mexico,
was possible that the Nazis tive to the worth of the Church Bernanos, who had a lover's
all of us, for each and every one wrote to tell me how thrilled he 
alone were responsible for such as one who is ready for the quarrel with his Church as it is
of us must travel a considerable is with the Liberation Gospel
a terrible event? good news, after being over­represented by flawed what we
distance between moral reason­he's studying. All that he's sure
We have heard of people in exposed to the bad news: in an call human beings. "To judge us
ing and the achievement of a of as a Christian is that God is
large apartment buildings apparently faithless, graceless by what we call our actions is
moral life that is grounded in on the side of the poor. I'm
watching a person being world, everything has become probably as futile as to judge us
particular actions. happy to see the lad on fire
robbed and murdered in the grace. For grace is the high by our dreams. God's justice
Wondering how I might have with this insight. When he
courtyard and not even calling favor of God which Christ chooses from this dark con­
acted had I been living in Berlin starts to take the rest of the
the police for help. Is this any earned for His Church by the glomeration of thought and act,
in 1938 as a neighbor to Jewish Gospel to heart, he may decide
different from the attitude of ordeal on the Cross. Grace is and that which is raised toward 
people, I'm reminded of the that God tends to favor the
Germans who watched their the power of God entering our the Father shines with a sudden
films of the Rodney King beat­underdog, who can be rich or
Jewish neighbors being taken lives through Baptism that burst of light, displayed in glory 
ing and the Reginald Denny poor, should the underdog find
away, or beaten, or robbed, leaves us born again; through like the sun." 
beating, shown over and over himself unjustly being held
without saying a word? Would Penance, which renews inno­As the country priest said: 
on CNN. I doubt that I would hostage by the poor in spirit. 
you be able to sleep through a cence; and through the "How easy it is to hate oneself!
have had the moxie to stand up Militant Right-to-lifers, who
'Kristallnacht'? " Eucharist, which unites the True grace is to forget. Yet if
for the victims against the per­risk arrest by the tactics they
In a review of this book, Vine and the branches. pride could die in us, the 
petrators of violence, for fear of use outside abortion clinics,
Harvard psychiatrist Robert The Church, enlivening crea­supreme grace would be to love
getting hurt myself. It's the may pride themselves on inter­
Coles says, "One wants with all tures with its Sacraments, is old ourselves in all simplicity-as
realization of the ugliness that vening in a holocaust in
one's heart and soul to say con­Earth's second springtime, eas­one would love any of those 
was going on that makes me progress. It would have taken
fidently: 'No, I'd not sleep a tering the everlasting hills. As who themselves have suffered
uneasy about the way both jury far greater courage to stand up
wink through Kristallnacht. the poet Hopkins says, "There and loved in Christ." 
trials turned out. to the Nazis in charge of
Never! I'd run into the streets, lives the dearest freshness deep 
Hemingway claimed that the Dachau. Protesters, removed 

Friday, October 22, 1993 9 p.m.-1 a.m. 
Drinks Ballroom 
...l" 


SPORTS 

USC (4-3) vs. Notre Dame (7-0)
EXTRA 

Notre Dame Stadium October 23, 1993 1:40 p.m. 

' ­
vs. 

-see page 2 
USC searches for a tailback to continue the tradition of great Trojan runners. 
-see page 3 
In the years before Notre Dame's "Decade 
of Dominance," USC dominated the Irish. 
-see page 7 

I
t started out as a harmless joke. Southern California coach John Robinson was asked by an alumnus at a University banquet about beating Notre Dame. 
"I told him we would beat Notre Dame," said Robinson. "But I also told him we would win only if he bet his house on USC." 
Trojan fans forget the second part. Robinson said the magic words early on and the rest was lost amid the memories of Ted Tollner and Larry Smith. 
Beat Notre Dame. 

That was all the alumni wanted. Why beat around the bush? Go out and hire a coach who could beat the Irish, or one better, get a coach who could predict a win and deliver. 
USC fans had done enough hoping, even praying to beat Notre Dame. They wanted a team and a coach who could just do it. Not like the Nike ad, with its 
see RETURNIpage 6 



on a scale of 1 to 5 

Pat Johnson sparks a lethal Trojan passing attack 
RUNNING BACKS 
[!] 
Injuries and instability hurt the Trojans in the backfield. 
RECEIVERS 
w 
Johnnie Morton is a serious big play threat, one of the best the Irish have faced this year. 
0-LINE 
l!J 
Lost three starters to injuries, substirues have been capable bur not outstanding. 
D-LINE 
w 
McGinest is one of the nation's most feared defenders and Hinz is a rough nose tackle 
LINEBACKERS 
I.!J 
Jones, Kopp and Williams are an impres­sive group. 
SECONDARY 
[fJ 
Oliver is outstanding, and Sehorn already has five inten;eptions. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
w 
Talented returners, bur Cole Ford's injury ham­pers the kicking game. 
COACHING 
l!!J 
Robinson's back. His mission this season is to defeat NO. The Trojans will be ready. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
Expect nothing less than a barrie as rhe greatest tradition in col­lege football continues. 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Southern California will have to resort to its potent aerial attack on Saturday if they hope to put any points up on the board in Notre Dame Stadium. 
So far this season, the hapless South­usc ern Cal 
Offense 
ground 
vs.
attack h a s Notre Dame 
scored Defense 
only six touchdowns and gained a meager average of 104 yards per game through seven contests. 
When the Trojans' slated starting tailback, sopho­more Dwight McFadden, was injured early in the season opener against North Carolina, the USC rushing game has gone to shambles. 
Hedshirt freshman David Dotson assumed the start­ing role for four games but failed miserably and was replaced sophomore Scott Fields. 
Fields got only one start before redshirt freshman Shawn Walters took over, who had some success last week against Oregon State and is scheduled to start against the Irish. 
Walters has rushed 56 times for 338 yards and two touchdowns in five games this season. However, he is clearly in 


the for the most.. serious challenge of his brief career against Notre Dame. 
The Irish are sixth in the nation in rush defense, allowing only 85 yards per game. They are eighth in total defense and seventh in scoring defense, al­lowing an average of 278 yards and 12.7 points. 
Passing has been Southern Cal's forte this season. 
The combination· of quarterback Rob Johnson 
Mobile McGinest is a problem for the Irish 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
This is the game that kept Willie McGinest in college. 
"The only reason I came back for my senior season was to go back and the only place I haven't." 

A Lombardi Award candidate, McGinest has been harassing oppos­ing offenses all season, collecting a career-high 15 tackles against Penn State. 
McGinest could be an even more 
beat the hell out of Notre 
imposing threat if Notre 
Dame," Southern Cal's Dame's hobbled offense senior defensive end told the doesn't heal in time for Los Angeles Times. Saturday's game. 
His time has arrived. Starting tailback Lee 
But it's not McGinest's Becton missed some practice words that trouble Irish time with an aggravated coach Lou Holtz. It's his hamstring and quarterback 
actions. 
"Willie McGinest just changes the whole game," Holtz said. "They line him up everywhere, at inside line­backer, at tackle. I have not seen him line up at safety and that's about 

··~ to~)<. 
Photo Courtesy of USC Sports Information 
CB Jason Sehorn already has five interceptions this season. 

Kevin McDougal also missed some practice with a sprained throwing shoulder. 
"The thing that scares you with something like what Kevin has is sometimes that has a tendency to deteriorate during the course of the week," Holtz said. 
The last thing the Irish offense needs is a deteriorating quarterback, particularly against USC's veteran defense. 
The Trojans start eight seniors and three juniors on defense against Notre Dame's still-maturing offense. 
"They can stop the run and I'm not sure our offensive line has been together long enough," Holtz said. "The concern I have is our ability to block the right people." 
Notre Dame's offensive line has had a lot of players shuffle in and out this season, but despite the changes they have consistently opened big holes for the Irish running backs. 
"Aaron Taylor and Tim Ruddy are the best we've ever had at their posi-


Photo Courtesy of USC Sports Information 
LB Willie McGinest is USC's top tack­ler with 44. 
tions," Holtz said. "Todd Norman has really played well the last couple of weeks and I'm pleased with the progress of Jeremy Akers and Will Lyell at guard." 
USC's rushing defense has been adequate but not outstanding this season, allowing more than 170 yards per game. 
"In a game like this emotion is always important," Holtz said. "But they do so many things well. I'm concerned about our ability to move the ball on the ground or in the air." 
The Trojans have allowed only 146 passing yards per game and safety Jason Oliver is among the best in the nation. 
Kevin McDougal has made the most of few passing opportunities, completing 62 of 98 attempts for 1002 yards and four touchdowns. 
He has also been inconsistent at times, throwing four interceptions. 
The entire Trojan defense is talent­ed, and the Irish will have to neutral­ize Oliver and McGinest to defeat USC for the 11th straight season. 
receptions for 120 yards and one touchdown per game. Last week, Morton reached the record books three times with his seven catch, 157 yard, three touchdown performance. 
"Johnnie Morton is sim­ply a great player," said USC head coach John Robinson. "He is the best pass catcher I have ever been around." 
In last year's match-up with the Irish, Johnson completed 27 of 41 passes for 302 yards and Morton caught nine for 91 yards. 
The Irish will likely have sophomore cornerback Bobby Taylor mark up with Morton one-on-one. The Trojan offense will be in serious trouble if Taylor can shut down Morton. 
In the battle of the Jines, the Irish clearly hold the upper hand. While Notre Dame boasts one of the best defensive lines in the country, the Trojans worry 
Friday, October 22, 1993 
on a scale of I to 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
t?~i~ 
t2!J 
McDougal's nursing a sore shouler, so the pressure could fall on Failla's shoulders. 
RUNNING BACKS 
w' . 
So much depth, so few footballs. 

Continues to impress despite few pass-catch­ing opportunities. 
0-LINE 
t·~-~~ 
L2.l 
Competition will be rougher than BYU, bur they are maturing as a group. 
D-UNE 
m 
An improved pass rush adds to an already dom­inating 0-Line. 
LINEBACKERS 

Bereich is back, and Goheen, Sample and Berry keep improving. 
SECONDARY 

Johnny Morton pre­sents another challenge, but they can handle it. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
P!l 
Return ur~its are solid and kicking game is improving. 
COACHING 
l·r::: J 
l!!J 
There will be no look­ing ahead as long as Holtz is in charge. The Irish will be ready. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
Notre Dame is more talented than the Trojans on paper, but paper means little in this rivalry. 

and wide receiver Johnnie Morton has been lethal this season. 
Johnson has completed 
70.5 percent of his passes this season while throwing for 13 touchdowns and only two interceptions in 193 attempts. 
Morton, who is by far Johnson's favorite target, has been a walking record-breaker this sea­son. He has set five records this season for either USC or the PAC-10. He is averaging eight about an offensive line which has gone from rich­es to rags. Three starters have been injured hamper­ing what was once one of the Trojan's great offen­sive strengths. 
"If we stick to the game plan and stay focused," said Irish starting left end Renaldo Wynn, "we'll be alright on the defensive side of the field. The de­fense is really pumped up for this game." 

Friday, October 22, 1993 page 3 


By MATT WHITE 
Deon is the senior, converted Daily Trojan for his senior year to fullback from tailback. He has carried 
This is the story of a ball and the ball, heard the cheers. the four men who would run it. "I wouldn't call it pressure to Do you like stories with happy be the leader (with Dwight 
endings? gone), but there's definitely a Once upon a time In Anaheim. sense of responsibility," says Dwight McFadden breaks Strother. "I would hope they 
through a wall of blocks, thou­look up to me and I can be a 
sands cheering. Past one positive influence on them." defender, hit and spin off two The Dream begins in blocking more, plunges headlong into drills, and so Shawn Walters is 
the North Carolina secondary. looking up, Straight up. He's Hit from behind, spins around. just been knocked on his back the left leg rolls under a pursu­by a fullback simulating a ing opponent, and the Fairytale charging linebacker. ends. Dwight McFadden Deon Strother He has just given up a sack, 
The happy ending died in and the coaches let him know. 
just turned un-bulletproof and But called upon against North 
Anaheim with McFadden's sea­The Dream wieghed heavily
you are going to have one hell Carolina, he gained just 16 
son. on Walters all summer. About
of a weed of practice. yards on 7 carries. When the 
So the fairy tale shifts to the 15 lbs. worth. After ballooning
That's what happened this issue was decided in the late 
uncertain future and three to 230 lbs. after spring drills,
week at Howard Jones Field. stages of the fourth quarter, 
young faces that share a Walters became painfully
Dream week is on. Dotson went and gained 48
dream, and to another face aware that he was too big for
For Scott Fields, the Dream is yards in nine attempts. 
which has been asked to give his 6-foot frame. 
a spotlight on a darkened stage. "It didn't bother me at all 
up the dream so that the three "I knew I had to bring myself 
He jumps into the light, but it with David going in," says 
can get there. down for the kind of power
winks out, refocusing across Fields. "I understand what
Scott Fields, David Dotson runner I am," says Walters. 
the stage. Welcome to USC they're doing. I have got to
and Shawn Walters, who Down to 225 for fall practice,
Scott. Now redshirt. improve hitting the holes." 
between them had exactly zero and to 220 now. Walters wants 
He runs down the light, but it The Dream is his to lose, but 
college experience at running to be at 215. Early in fall two­
winks into darkness again. it hangs by a thread. On
back coming into 1993. And a-days at Irvine, Walters ran 
Now we'll make you a safety Tuesday, Fields took the first
Deon Strother, who has played over would-be tacklers with
and you can chase the ball. snaps on drills, the most snaps
tailback for three years, and brute strength and surprising
In fall practice, Robinson let in live action. 
now is asked to shepherd the speed that reminded many of
Fields move back to tailback. Wednesday, it was Dotson.
three from fullback. Notre Dame's Jerome Bettis. 
With just McFadden returning, Fields is 6-foot-3, 200. He is
For coach John Robinson, it's Walters wasn't the train, and
he could play back-up. fast, but not explosive. 
a nightmare. Now the coach at after injuring his leg early, he
But the dream isn't about "I think we all needed that 
Tailback U. has no tailback. fell out of the race for the start­
mopping up. first game to see the speed of a
"We're going to give our ing spot. He entered this week 
He took as many snaps as real game. Now we've seen it," 
young people a shot," says of practice as the solid show bet
McFadden, ran people down, says Fields. 
Robinson. "They came here to in the tailback horserace. 
made plays. The whispers cir­For Deon Strother, the Dream 
be good, to be USC tailbacks." "I know Scott and David have 
culated: Fields was The Man. is behind him. Two yards back, 
"That's their dream." an advantage on me since they
Suddenly, the spotlight was and staggered in the !-forma­
Bring three dreams into con­played in the game," says
shining at his feet. tion.

tention, throw in a coach who Walters. 
Others To Watch 

ROB JOHNSON Second in the PAC-10 in pass­ing effeciency, and has thrown for 16 touchdowns. 

WILLIE MCGINEST Leader on defense will line up at three different positions, Lombardi semifinalist. 

JOHNNIE MORTON USC career reception leader and PAC-10 yardage leader, preseason all-American. 
"To be a USC tailback. That's why we all came," says Walters. "Just being one is an honor. But to have the chance to be The Man in the spotlight­it's. That's like a dream come true." 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday -Saturday 9a.m. -5 p.m. 
Special Hours On Football Weekends! Friday 9a.m. 7p.m. 


Saturday 8a.m. 6p.m. For all of 
lifes moments. 


page 4 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 22, 1993 

TROJANS 
THERN CAL TROJANS ~IR\':,::::1993 ROSTER 
49 J. Rickman WR 6-3 205 Fr 50 T. Towns OLB 6-2 200 Fr 51 Junior Moi DE 6-3 235 Sr 52 C. Miller DT 6-1 255 Fr 53 Robert Loya OG 6-2 285 So 54 E. Mahone DE 6-5 · 255 Sr 55 W. McGinest DE 6-6 245 Sr 56 J. Hogue OG 6-4 260 So 57 M. Butkus .DT 6-2 265 Sr 58 J. Keiderling OT 6-5 275 Jr 58 H. Anderson OLB 6-Q 200 Fr 59 G. Caruthers OLB 6-3 235 Sr 60 TonyGnau C 5-10 200 So 60 J. Ehrlich DE 6-4 225 Fr 61 C. Gibson C 6-3 260 Sr 62 L. Gorecki OT 6-4 285 Sr 63 A. Abrams OT 6-3 290 Jr 64 S. Whitehouse OG 6-2 265 Jr 65 J. Crisman OG 6-5 290 Sr 66 C. Hattabaugh C 6-3 265 Jr 67 C. Brymer OG 6-3 285 Fr 68 K. Ramsay OG 6-3 285 So 69 D. Apolskis C 6-4 260 Sr 70 J. Himebauch NT 6-3 245 fR 71 T. Boselli OT 6-8 295 Jr 72 OongKoo OG 6-4 285 Fr 73 P. Pounds OT 6-7 290 Fr 7 4 Donovan Roy OT 6-5 300 So 75 Keith Siscel OT 6-4 290 Sr 76 N. Garrido OT 6-7 295 So 77 K. Pollack OG 6-5 280 Jr 78 T. McDaniels DT 6-4 290 Sr 79 Stuart Gage OT 6-4 300 So 80 J. Morton WR 6-0 190 Sr 
81 .Q. Harrison WR 5-11 185 Fr 82 B. Banta TE 6-6 250 Sr 83 T. Cashman TE 6-4 235 So 84 G. Murrell ILB 6-3 245 Sr 85 R. Lenderman WR 5-11 180 Jr 86 A. Volsan WR 5-10 160 Fr 87 J. McWilliams TE 6-5 265 So 88 E. Hervey WR 6-3 195 Jr 89 J. Allred TE 6-5 230 Fr 90 T. Holland DT 6-3 265 Sr 9'1 W. Lowery DE 6-5 240 Fr 92 Matt Keneley NT 6-5 290 Fr 93 D. Gallaway DE 6-3 245 Sr 94 Jeff Diltz TE 6-5 230 Fr 95 Jason Uhl NT 6-3 270 Sr 96 MikeHinz NT 6-3 270 Sr 97 Pat Ah-Hing DT 6-3 290 Fr 98 Germaine Gray DE 6-4 255 Fr 99 John Michels DE 6-7 250 So 

First year at USC, also coached there from 1976-82. 
Records: Overall150-91-2; vs. Notre Dame, 6-1. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: Nine seasons with Los Angeles Rams (1983-91), seven seasons with USC (1976-82). 
Career Highlights: Robinson has the highest winning percentage among active Division I-A head coaches. He won the 1978 national championship with USC, finished second in both 1976 and 1979, led USC to 3 Pac-10 titles and was 3-0 in the Rose BowL 
-----1993 Statistics 
RUSHING 

YDSIGM Walters 48.3 M'Fadden 44.0 Dotson 31.2 Fields 22.9 Strother 22.4 PASSING  NO 66 7 60 44 33  YDS 338 44 187 160 157  AVG 6.0 6.3 3.1 3.6 4.8  TO 2 0 0 3  
RATING Johnson 161.7 Wachholtz 162.5  COMP 148 16  ATT 212 23  PCT 69.8 69.6  YDS 1739 176  TO 16 2  INT  2 0  
RECEIVING  
Morton Strother Grace Hervey  NO 54 25 15 13  YDS 879 228 137 160  AVG 16.3 9.1 9.1 11.6  TO 9 0 1 2  
FIELD GOALS  


TOT 
879 
381 
413 
385 
52 
353 
167 
160 

17-39 40-49 50+ LG 

1993 SOUTHERN CAL 
Salmon 3-6 0·0 0-0 38 Ford 1-1 0-2 0-0 29 

SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
Aug.29  
PUNTING  Sept. 4  
Sept. 11  
NO  AVG  LG  Sept. 25  
Stonehouse  38  37.7  56  Oct. 2  
INTERCEPTIONS  Oct. 9  
Oct. 16  
Sehorn  NO 5  YDS 45  TO 0  LG 25  Oct. 23 Oct. 30  
Salmon  3  59  0  30  Nov. 6  
Oliver  0  0  0  Nov. 13  
Nov. 20  
DEFENSE  

T  
McGinest  27  
Kopp  28  
Williams  27  
Salmon  23  
Hinz  19  
Sehorn  23  
Oliver  19  
Jones  17  
Cunningham  18  
Keneley  13  
Perry  17  
Barry  16  
Murrell  10  
Phillips  B  
Holland  6  
Henry  8  
Harpin  8  
Lowery  10  
Haas  8  
Small  6  
Knight  6  
Caruthers  6  
Uhl  5  
Butkus  3  
Budzichowski  2  


A  TOT  FR  PBU  TL  
17  44  1  6  5  
13  41  1  2  5  
11  38  1  0  2  
10  33  1  4  0  
10  29  0  0  2  
3  26  0  7  2  
6  25  0  6  0  
7  24  1  2  3  
5  23  0  2  2  
10  23  0  0  3  
3  20  0  1  1  
1  17  0  1  1  
5  15  0  0  1  
5  13  0  0  0  
5  13  0  0  2  
5  13  0  1  1  
2  10  0  2  1  
0  10  0  2  1  
1  9  0  0  0  
2  8  0  1  0  
2  8  1  1  0  
2  8  0  0  0  
3  B  0  0  2  
1  4  0  0  1  
2  4  0  0  0  

ALL-PURPOSE  
LG  
54  
19  RUSH  REC  RET  
14  Morton  0  879  0  
24  Dotson  187  36  158  
32  Grace  0  137  276  
Strother  157  228  0  
McFadden  44  B  0  
Walters  336  5  12  
LG  Fields  160  7  0  
72  Hervey  0  160  0  
24  
SCORING SUMMARY  

LG  
72  1  
26  Southern Cal  34  
30  Opponents  21  
44  

NORTH CAROLINA 49-7 
20-21 
34-3 
7-38 24-13 
34-9 
1:35 12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30 
SAC 3 2 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 
0 
0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 
0 
0 0 2 1 0 
2  3  4  
58  28  57  
68  13  20  

SCORING 
TO PATx2 PATx1 FG PTS 
Morton 9 0 0 0 Salmon 0 0 12 3 Ford 0 0 9 1 Walters 2 0 0 0 Fields 2 0 0 0 Coleman 2 0 0 0 Hervey 2 0 0 0 
KICKOFF 
NO AVG TO Grace 1 t 26.1 0 Dotson 9 17.6 0 
PUNT RETURNS 
NO AVG TO Sehorn 21 6.4 0 
TEAM STATISTICS 
First Downs by rushing by passing by penalty 
Total yardage Offensive plays Avg. yards per play Total yards I game 
Rushing yards Rushing plays Rushing yards I game 
Passing yards Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted Passing yards I game 
Fumbles • tumbles lost Penatties -penalty yards 3rd down conversions 
percentage 
usc 
142 41 95 6 2731 494 
5.5 
390.1 1028 258 116.6 1915 165 236 2 273.6 19-10 49-470 43-101 42.6 
AVG 125.6 63.5 59.0 
55.0 
52.0 50.4 23.9 22.9 
TOT 177 122 
54 21 12 12 12 12 12 
LG 41 28 
LG 17 
OPP 122 65 43 14 2225 483 4.6 317.9 1199 319 171.3 1026 84 164 9 146.6 21-7 28-281 36·106 34.0 

The History of the Series 
The Last Time: 
Notre Dame 31, USC 23 

The Records: Last year at the Coliseum, Notre Dame used a powerful running attack to beat 
Notre Dame leads 37-23-4 

the Trojans, as the Irish racked up 330 Last ND Win: 1992yards on the ground. 
Last USC Win: 1982Reggie Brooks had a career-high 227 Longest Series Streaks: 

yards and 3 touchdowns (12, 55, and 44 ND-1 0 (1983-presentl 
yards) on 19 carries. Notre Dame led 17-16 at halftime as 
USC-5 (1978-82) the team exchanged scores throughout R . k At Notre Dame Stadium: 
8

the game. egg1e roo s Notre Dame leads, 19-8-1 
USC got to the Irish's 5-yard line with 25 seconds to play, but senior cornerback Tom Carter intercepted a pass from USC quarterback Rob Johnson to seal the Trojans' fate. 
Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
FIGHTING IRISH 

Lou 


Eighth season at Notre Dame. 

Records at Notre Dame: Overall 72-18-1; at Home 35-7­1; on the Road 35-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall 186-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; vs. usc 7-0. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 sea­sons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset No.3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. Topped No. 3 Michigan this year. 
1993 Statistics 

RUSHING ALL-PURPOSE 
YOS/GM NO YDS AVG TO LG RUSH REC RET TOT AVG 
83.2 83 499 6.0 3 40 Becton 499 53 0 552 92.0 
56.7 68 397 5.8 1 33 Miller 0 308 255 563 80.4 
53.9 72 377 5.2 4 29 Zellars 377 49 0 426 60.9 
16.7 34 117 3.4 4 43 Kinder 397 0 0 397 56.7 
14.7 23 88 3.8 2 13 C. Johnson 0 -99 292 391 55.9 
12.3 23 74 3.2 1 9 Mayes 7 351 0 358 51.1 Dawson 8 228 0 236 33.7PASSING McDougal 117 0 0 117 16.7 
Farmer 88 0 0 88 14.7 RATING COMP ATI PCT YOS TD INT LG Clark 74 8 0 82 13.7 
154.4 62 98 63.3 1002 4 4 66 Burris 16 0 60 76 10.9 
249.9 12 14 85.7 195 2 0 80 Edwards 71 0 0 71 10.1 
RECEIVING SCORING SUMMARY 
NO YOS AVG TO LG 16 351 21.9 2 80 1 2 3 4 TOT 14 228 16.3 0 32 Opponents 13 23 20 33 89 12 308 25.7 2 66 Notre Dame 48 63 71 62 244 
6 53 8.8 1 12 5 99 19.8 0 43 3 34 11.3 0 18 


SCORINGFIELD GOALS 
TO PATx2 PATxl FG PTS
1993 NOTRE DAME 

Pendergast 0 0 26 10 56 
Zellars 5 0 0 0 3017-39 40-49 50+ LG 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 

Becton 4 0 0 0 24 Edwards 4 0 0 0 24 McDougal 4 0 0 0 24 Miller 3 0 0 0 18 Pendergast 9-12 1-1 0-0 44 
PUNTING 

Burris 2 0 0 0 12 
Farmer 2 0 0 0 12 5 42.4 44 Leonard 18 39.9 55 
NO AVG LG 

KICKOFF 
1 33.0 33 
NO AVG TO LG
INTERCEPTIONS 

C. Johnson 6 48.7 1 100 Miller 4 16.3 0 20 
NO YOS TO LG 3 61 0 43 

PUNT RETURNS 
2 22 0 22 29 0 29 
NO AVG TO LG 

Miller 23 8.3 1 5621 1 21 Burris 1 60.0 1 600 0 0 B. Taylor 3.0 0 30 0 0 
DEFENSE TEAM STATISTICS 
T A TOT FR PBU TL SAC 

OPP NO 36 17 53 0 3 2.0 0.5 33 17 50 1 0 4.0 4.5 
First Downs 113 151 31 5 36 0 3 2.5 0.0 
by rushing 42 96 Bereich 23 13 36 1 1 4.0 1.0 
by passing 66 49 B. Taylor 29 4 33 1 7 1.0 1.0 
by penalty 5 6 Covington 26 7 33 1 2 0.0 0.0 
Total yardage 1948 2929 Hamilton 19 13 32 3 0 3.0 3.0 
Offensive plays 450 465 Flanigan 19 12 31 0 1 1.0 3.0 
Avg. yards per play 4.33 6.30 Gibson 23 7 30 0 0 2.5 0.5 
Total yards I game 278.3 418.4 Burris 21 9 30 0 4 0.0 2.0 
Rushing yards 594 1732 Magee 16 8 24 0 3 0.0 0.0 
Rushing plays 220 353 Sample 17 1 18 0 0 3.0 0.0 
Rushing yards I game 84.9 247.4 Berry 13 3 16 0 0 1.0 0.0 
Passing yards 1354 1197 Tatum 9 7 16 0 1 1.0 1.0 
Passes completed 148 74 Knight 8 8 16 0 0 3.0 1.0 
Passes attempted 230 112 Wynn 11 4 15 0 0 1.5 2.0 
Passes intercepted 9 4 Wooden 9 4 13 0 0 1.0 0.0 
Passing yards I game 193.4 171.0 6 4 10 0 2 1.0 0.5 
Fumbles -fumbles lost 12-8 8-5 4 3 7 0 0 0.0 0.0 
Penalties -penalty yards 56-444 41-329 3 3 6 0 0 1.0 0.0 
3rd down conversions 42-102 38-83 3 2 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 
percentage 41.2 45.8 
2 3 5 0 0 0.0 0.0 

4th down conversions 4-6 5-7 1 3 4 0 0 0.0 0.0 
percentage 66.7 71.4 
0 .
3 3 0 0 0.0 0.0 3 0 3 0 1 0.0 0.0 2 1 3 0 0 0.0 0.0 

NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Built in 1930 
Capacity: 59,075 
Largest Crowd: 
61,296 (1962) 
Surface: Grass 
ND's Record There: 
236-67-5 
One of the most feared and respected landmarks in football history, Notre Dame Stadium has been the home of more nation­al champions than any other stadium in college football. 
-

page6 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 22, 1993 



-
Return 
continued from page 1 
subtle slogan, but something big. One for all to see. 
They got themselves a bill­board, plenty of them. All over the Los Angeles highways huge signs stressing the point: "Be a Trojan. Beat Notre Dame." And Robinson's picture smiled at passing cars like he knew something. 
Maybe he does. In his seven seasons at USC (1976-1982) Robinson was 6-1 against the Irish. with three Rose Bowl wins and a national champi­onship. 
Tht! last 26 times the two teams have played the record is 12-12-2, but it was 12-2-2 in favor of USC before Robinson 

"The only reason I 
came back for my senior year is to go back there and beat the hell out of Notre Dame." 
-Willie McGinest 

'i:re-Nighrs;ciailr -1,i4;;ol;g~-,r-PartyP-;ck-,r 114''L;;g~, Now accepting I 9p.m.-close II 1 Topping Pizza II 4.. 14" Large 11 111 . p· I Visa & Mastercard 
. $695

I 1.. 14" Large II II 1 rroppt'ng II .ohpZptngfClzkzal $10 minimum
+Tax

I . . II or 2 , 14" Large II 11 II wtt cans o o e 1....-----------:------=--=---... I 1 Topp~~g Ptzza II 1 Topping Pizzas II Pizzas II and Breadstix I HOURS 
I $5-+Tax II $1125 +Tax II $2225. +Tax II $10°0 +Tax I M,Th: ll:OOa.m.,J:OOa.m. 
IAdditional Toppmp .95, each Mb.llAdditional Toppinp 95¢ each Mb.IIAdditional Toppings .95¢ each .....IIAdditional Topping> 95¢ each . Mb.l Fri·Sat: 11:00 a.m. , 3:00 a.m. l~>~ot Valid With Any Other Coupon .JINot Valid With Any Other Coupon ....Not Valid With Any Other Coupon ..1 I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon ..1 Sun: Noon , 1:00 a.m . 
... _______ ._ _______ .... _______ ...,___ '----------------' 
Fast Hot Perfect 

The Most Popular Number on Campus! 
left. 
He was 67-14-1 with the Trojans before this season be­gan, the highest winning per­centage among Division 1-A coaches. 
"Coach Robinson knows what football is about at USC," said Trojan wide receiver Johnnie Morton. 
It's about winning, and also to... 
Beat Notre Dame. 
''I'm very excited about the chance to play Notre Dame," said Hobinson. "We intend to win the game, but we intend to win every game." 
USC has known nothing but losing while the Irish have en­joyed a self-tagged "Decade of Dominance." 
"You can throw out the past," said Irish linebacker Pete Bereich. "With Southern Cal its not just a game. It's the type of game that can make or break your season." 
Pete, do you remember the olden days? "Yeah, I watched the 1988 game." 
No before that, when USC used to win. "No I didn't really watch foot­ball then." 
Beat Notre Dame. 
For USC the motivation is there; heal the program begin­ning with the worst sore. 
For the ·Irish, this game seems only an obstacle before a one-two showdown with Florida State. 
The game is huge in Southern California. The billboards start­ed the hype from the first day of fall camp, and the players have kept it up. 
"The only reason I came back for my senior year is to go back there and beat the hell out of 



beat usc 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 31 
usc 13 
COVER STORY 


Photo Courtesy of Elisa Klostermann 
Billboards all along Southern California highways told of the main goal of the USC football program for 1993. 
Notre Dame," All-American linebacker Willie McGinest told the Los Angeles Times. 
"For me as a senior this is my last chance to beat them," said Morton. "I am throwing every­thing into this game. This is the biggest game I have played in and probably will ever play in." 
Ten years of losing, ten years of alumni whining, that damn "Decade of Dominance." 
"I know that Southern Cal has pointed at us for a year," said Holtz. "I am well aware of that, but I can't do anything about that." 
~ 
' 

And what about the streak, the ten years? 
"Kevin McDougal doesn't have a streak. Paul Failla, Peter Chryplewicz, they don't have a streak," Holtz said, re­ferring to the players who have yet to play against the Trojans. "Pete Bereich hasn't taken a snap against the Trojans. There's a guy who doesn't have a streak." 
This game has meant so much in the past and this year it means, well. .. 
"We are not at the level Notre Dame is," said Hobinson, "but we don't want to shy away be­cause our program's down. We want to measure ourselves against a team like this." 
Beat Notre Dame. 

"I know John Robinson is say­ing they're going to win the game," said Holtz. "But he is not going to play and I am not going to play." 
"We will be ready," said Morton. 
It all started out as a joke. "Beat Notre Dame," Robinson said. 
Notre Dame-USC is never a joke. 
! -----~-------------------­
Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 7 


TH 
EC 
0 Ml 
E 



By Jason Kelly 

Ro 
tnson got some p tn 
is fina game 
John Robinson's career final play. Trojan safety Joey against Notre Dame ended in 1982 Browner knocked the pass
1982 as it began seven years away at the goal line, but earlier. many believed that he inter-With a controversial 17-13 fered with Hunter. win. There was no flag and no photograph. 
Trojan tailback Michael Harper scored The ball fell helplessly to the turf, the game-winning touchdown in the Hunter fell on his back and Notre Dame final minute with a plunge from the one-once again fell victim to the Trojans. yard line. "I think I got interfered with," Hunter 
But as an Associated Press picture said. "The ball's coming down, I went proved, Harper didn't have possession up to get it, and the next thing I know of the ball when he crossed the goal line I'm on my back. I don't usually just fall and the touchdown shouldn't have on my back for no reason." counted. Ironically, it was a disputed 
Unfortunately for Irish fans, pass interference call against the Associated Press doesn't Notre Dame in 1976 that officiate college football games. helped Robinson win his first-
Notre Dame recovered the loose ball, ever game against the Irish. which would have preserved an Irish On a crucial third down play, Irish victory, but after a discussion between cornerback Luther Bradley was called the officials, Harper was awarded the for interference, giving the Trojans a touchdown. first down and keeping a drive alive that 
It was USC's fifth consecutive win would eventually lead to a field goal that over Notre Dame and-at least until this secured USC's win. Saturday-its last. Six out of seven years against 
But even a decade of Irish dominance Robinson Notre Dame fans had to swal­doesn't take the sting out of that loss. low the bitter taste of losing to USC. 
"I've been here five years and we Sometimes it was because of a contro­haven't beaten Southern Cal yet," Irish versial call. Other times it wasn't close senior Kevin Griffith said after the enough for one call to make a differ­­game. "I can't think of a worse way to ence. lose this game, on a bad officiating Whatever the reason, Robinson knew calls." how to beat Notre Dame, something his 
Notre Dame had a chance to win the successors haven't been able to do. game in the final seconds. Now that he's back Trojan fans are Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnfonnation. Quarterback Blair Kiellofted a pass to hoping for a return to the decade when Irish quarterback Blair Kiel's last second desperation pass fell incomplete after a contro­

tight end Tony Hunter on the game's USC was dominant. 
versial no-call. 

1 
Gerry Faust got his USC's Heisman Trophy throwing for 311 yards. USC fin­first taste of the rival­

winning tailback Charles ished the day with 591 yards of total ry in 1981 and it was 
en 
White simply ran {)Ver the offense.
198 

Notre Dame defense, USC scored two quick touchdowns The Irish played bitter. 
r­
gaining a career-high 269 in the third quarter to break a 7-7 one of their best games of the season, but 
yards on 44 car­
halftime tie and they never
c:n 

ries as the loooked back. losers. 
limped off Notre Dame Stadium as 14-7 

'.,-Trojans defeated Notre Dame's offense Irish junior Phil Carter won the "Battle 
the Irish 42-23 tried to make it close, of the Tailbacks," 
win at Notre Dame Stadium. behind 185 yards from outgaining USC's 
"They were the best offensive tailback Vegas Ferguson and 286 Marcus Allen 161 to 
team I've ever seen," Dan Devine passing yards from quarterback 
said. Rusty Lisch. lost the most important battle. 
147. But the Irish 

Trojan quarterback Paul But USC responded each time the "Our players really came of age today," 
McDonald also had a career-high, Irish scored to keep the game out of an upbeat Faust said after the game. "They played like we've wanted them to play all year." 
"It was the greatest football game passes and led a third 98­But the result was not what they want­I've ever seen," Robinson said. yard scoring drive to giveed. 
For a while it looked like the 1978 the Irish a 25-24 lead"I told our players all week that this game would add another chapter to with less than a minutegame was like a heavyweight champi­the history of great Irish comebacks. remaining.
onship fight that might not be decided "It was one of the greatest come­But this was a day foruntil the 12th or 13th round," Robinson backs in the history of the 
the Trojan his­

said. "And that's exactly what hap­

game," Devine said. tory books. 
pened." 

The only reason it didn't Behind quar­qualify as the greatest is terback Paul because that team that did the com­McDonald and tailback Charles

1980 
ra~~~~feate~o. ~nd 

ing back didn't win. White, USC drove to within field goal sound familiar?­
USC jumped out to a 17-3 halftime range and Frank Jordan nailed the Notre Dame travelled lead, but the Irish had a quarter­37 -yarder as time ran out. to Los Angeles and back named Joe Montana, who The Trojans went on to win the 
left with its first loss of the season. threw two second half touchdown national title. 
The 20-3 defeat was Notre Dame's sev­enth straight loss at the Los Angeles 
Coliseum and essen­
John Robinson's 1976
first game against 
Notre Dame. pr?ve~ to be a good md1catwn of how the series would develop while he coached the Trojans. 
Five Irish turnovers and a pair ctmtro­versial calls made the difference in USC's 

17-13 win over Notre Dame at the Los 
Angeles Coliseum. 
Trailing 14-7 in the fourth quarter, Notre Dame appeared to have knocked a punt out of bounds at the 

-
USC one-yard line, but the officials ruled that the ball went into the endzone, giv­ing the Trojans the ball on their 20. 
USC went on to kick a field goal that proved to be the difference in the game. 
Later, a disputed pass interference call on Irish cornerback Luther Bradley helped keep a USC drive alive. 
Notre Dame also hurt its own cause. Six times the Irish drove inside the Trojan 30-yard line only to come up empty-handed. 
"We got some bad breaks and they really hurt us," Irish defensive end Willie Fry said. "But you have to play 60 min­utes of football, regardless of what the officials call or what happens. SC won and that's all that matters." 


Wearing green jerseys for the first time since Joe Montanta had another great performance, completing 
tially ended the 


the 1950s, the Irish stunned the fans and the 13 passes for 167 yards. 
team's national championship hopes. 

Trojans on the way to an emotional 49-19 win at Eight of those went to tight end Ken MacAfee, who had 97"I don't have any feelings; I'm just Notre Dame Stadium. receiving yards to lead the Irish. 
numb," Devine said after his last regular It was Notre Dame's only win over a Robinson­The win pushed Notre Dame back into the top five and season game as the Irish head coach. 

coached Trojan team and only the second over reignited national championship hopes that had died a few USC in the previous ten years. 
weeks earlier after a loss to Mississippi. 
Mike Courey took over for freshman ..... The Irish would go on to claim the USC came into the game averaging more than 30Blair Kiel at quarterback in the second 1977 national title. The other win was in points per game and allowing its opponents only 10. 

half and helped move the Irish offense, 1973, another Irish national championship season. "We got the hell beat out of us today," Robinsonbut they could manage only a field goal Devine down played the importance of the jerseys. said. "We were beaten today by a very inspired and veryand USC was the winner at home again. 

"Let's get under those (green) jerseys," Devine said after well-coached team. Notre Dame executed very well. WeA Sugar Bowl date against top-ranked the game. "There's an awful lot of heart under those jer­were out-played and out coached." 
Georgia awaited the Irish on January 1, seys." It was the only time Robinson left a Notre Dame gamebut USC's win severely diminished the 

Enough heart to give Notre Dame one of the most lopsided green with envy. 
game's significance. 

victories in the history of the series. 



-
-
I 0 ( I· , ;· R I I' 
Coach Holtz get those boys ready 
I
t only takes three seeonds of 
listening to alumni to realize this game means more than the eurrent stu­dent body realizes. Somewhere along the 

line this game became important. 
In reeent years the 
GEORGE Men of Troy have DOHRMANN played more like L________j1
boys. Miehigan and Miami are the big games now, eontests that keep you on the edge of your seat. 
Heeent USC eontests are games where you offer to get the Cokes and dogs to avoid dozing off. 
Maybe the games haven't been that bad, but there has been little doubt who has had the upper hand in skill and eoaehing. 
The same is true this year. But thanks to the return of John Hobinson, the ghosts of past failure are haunting Notre Dame alumni. 
"Do you know what they're saying out here," says one alum. "All over the papers they're predieting a win. You bet­ter get them fired up out there in South Bend. They're fired up out here. This is their whole season." 
The alums eall in hoards, asking what we are doing and if we are ready. There is a tendeney to ignore them, but I don't. 
I listen to every word, as if my father was spinning those tales in my direetion. Beeause he did and still does. USC was the game for him, is the game for him, and will always be. 
In 1982, he took his 11 year old son to what was my third Notre Dame-USC eon­test. It was the first sueh game I ean remember and the one I will never for­get. 
"Every time we come to USC the refs take the game away," he would later grumble as we walked from the Coliseum. 
Trojan tailbaek Miehael Harper fum­bled the ball two yards before he leaped aeross the goaline, but it mattered little to the referees who ruled it a touchdown. 
Two years later he forced his freezing family to sit through the a thunderstorm, until he was sure the Irish had the game in hand. 
And in 1988, with a national titleon the line, he cursed Trojan quarterback Hodney Peete in front of children who had never heard their father utter a word of profanity. 
And this year I reeeived a eall warning me that USC was looking forward to this game. "You better tell coaeh Holtz to get those boys ready," he said. As if there is some HOLTZ hotline, checked every hour for my advice on upcoming opponents. 
And even if there was, the chance that I would tell Holtz, "to get those boys ready" is pretty slim. 
But regardless, Saturday's game means a lot more to Domers of past than it does for today's crowd. Alumni like my father remember the Hobinson years, and his return scares them to death. 
It has been such a sweet decade and they hate to see such a run end. 
''I'm bringing 300 crazed Irish fans from Orange County," one alum says when ealling. "I expeet a win." 
So do the current Irish erop, but for dill'erent reasons. We expect a win solely because we are a better team. Alumni demand a win because no team should allow a loss to USC. 
It's pride at stake. Forget the national title. Hespect, bragging rights, that is what it's all about. Anyway you size it up, this game means a lot. Difl'erent genera­tions have different reasoning but we all want a win. 
So Coach Holtz you better have those boys ready. 
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF EDITOR: George Dohrmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Bryan Connolly, Jonathan Jensen 

.----------------:;;;;==================---------------, 
Jonathan Jensen George Dohnnann Overall: 47-30 Overall: 47-30 Last Week: 5-6 Last Week: 5-6 
Notre Dame Notre Dame N.C. State N.C. State North Carolina North Carolina Northwestern Northwestern Iowa State Iowa State Alabama Alabama Miami Miami Georgia Georgia Wisconsin Wisconsin Colorado Colorado Texas Texas 
~ 


_je... 

Jason Kelly Bryan Connolly Overall: 44-33 Overall: 18-15 Last Week: 3-8 Last Week: 4-7 
Notre Dame Notre Dame N.C. State N.C. State Virginia Virginia Northwestern Northwestern Oklahoma State Oklahoma State Alabama Alabama Miami Miami Georgia Georgia Wisconsin Wisconsin Colorado Colorado Texas Texas 
Michigan and Miallli defend their hoine turf 
Games of Interest 
Illinois at Michigan The Wolverines, fresh off their come-from-behind win over Big Ten new­comer Penn State, host the rejuvenated Illini on Saturday. 
Michigan is trying to stay in the running for the Big Ten title, while Illinois (2-4) continues to improve under new starting quarterback Johnny Johnson. 
Johnson, who replaced starter Scott Weaver three weeks ago, was 11-17 for 178 yards last week as the Illini erus.hed lowly Iowa 49-3. Big-play reeeiver Jasper Strong had two catch­es for 71 yards, freshman running baek Damien Platt ran for 105 yards t on 13 carries, and kicker Chris Hichardson kicked four field goals. ""''% 
However, the Wolverines may have ····~ problems with the Illini defense, ,}J;tJ!'~': which features the best linebacking/:~: · 
crew this side of Tallahassee in juniors Dana Howard and John. 
Holecek. 

The Wolverines returned to their Michigan's Tyrone Wheatley
running game against the Nittany Lions, which was stopped cold in their loss to Michigan State last week. Tyrone Wheatley rambled for 192 yards on 32 carries, and Todd Collins 
supplemented the senior's running with 132 yards passing. 
Syracuse at Miami 
It is hard to believe Syracuse was ranked ahead of Notre Dame in one preseason poll, as the No. 24 Orangemen continue to show they are one of the worst teams in the Big East. 
Last week Syracuse almost lost to one of the live worst teams in Division I-A, as sorrowful Pitt nearly pulled off the upset. Pitt running baek Curtis Martin-was stopped on fourth down near the Syracuse goal line as the Orangemen held on for the embarrassing 24-21 win. 
Former Heisman Trophy candidate Marvin Graves threw for 318 yards on 12-18 passing, while Martin led Pitt with 206 yards on 318 yards. 
Sixth-ranked Miami should show the Orangemen what a good team looks like, as they play their first game since their 27-10 loss to No. 1 Florida State. 
The talk around Coral Gables has been that this year could be like 1989, when Miami lost at Florida State and then turned around and won the national championship after beating number-one ranked and undefeated Notre Dame in the last game of the year. 
North Carolina at Virginia 
The Tar Heels have been on fire since their 33"-7 loss at home to Florida State, but they meet up with a 5-1 Virginia team in Charlottesville that just suffered its first loss of the year. 
North Carolina quarterback Jason Stanicek leads the 7-1 Heels into this pivotal ACC matchup that should go a long way in deciding who is the con­ference's second-best team behind the Seminoles. 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 
10/10 
1550 1 1485 3 1366 5 1307 2 1292 6 1269 8 1117 11 1089 10 998 4 994 19 841 13 837 14 790 18 752 7 748 16 566 20 539 9 531 17 520 22 323 23 315 15 

page 8 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 15, 1993 


After being screwed by the dis­tributer of Trojan Condoms, the 
Bryan Corbett Colleen

Observer Sports Staff had to settle 
President Campbell for the Junior Class Officers as this Vice President 
weeks guests. Bergan offered a 
Notre Dame Notre Dame large sum of class funds for the N.C. State Georgia Tech North Carolina North Carolina
chance to pick against the best. 
Northwestern Indiana Oklahoma State Oklahoma State Alabama Alabama 
Miami Miami Georgia Georgia Wisconsin Wisconsin 

Observer 
Sports Staff 
Colorado Colorado Texas SMU

Last week: 17-27 


vs 
Junior Class Officers 


Last week's guests: 19-25 Joe Bergan Nick Galassi Treasurer Secretary 
USC at #2 Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Notre Dame

Georgia Tech at N.C. State 
N.C. State Georgia Tech

#12 North Carolina at #21 Virginia 
North Carolina North Carolina

Indiana at Northwestern 
Northwestern Northwestern 

Oklahoma State at Iowa State 
Iowa State Iowa State 

# 4 Alabama at Mississippi 
Alabama Alabama #23 Syraeuse at #6 Miami Miami Miami Kentueky at Georgia Georgia Georgia Wisconsin at Minnesota Wisconsin Wisconsin #16 Colorado at Kansas State 
Kansas State Colorado Texas Texas

SMU at Texas 
Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
The Obse!Ver accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next -day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 


DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ 4 SALE USC/BC STUD TIX  NEED USC TIX  I NEED FSU TIX!  
NOTICES  BACK TO SCHOOL FROM WILLIAMSBURG, VA AREA  ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call: A. Raczkowski  CHEAP X1203 MATT  Stud or GA x4519  WILL BUY OR TRADE FOR FOUR BC TIX PLUS MONEY  
AFTER FALL BREAK. WILL HELP  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  $#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$  CALL COLLECT FOR JOHN  
Typing  WITH GAS & DRIVING. FRANK  with jobs -will pay big $$$!  (606) 331 3933  
287-4082  x1431.  I need USC GAs and Student tix..  Help! I need a GA or male student  
Professional Typing  HEY FACULTY & STAFF!  Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at 273-1757  Call Monique at 634-4273  USC ticket. Call x2518 and ask ask for Jennifer.  PERSONAL  
Dissertations, Term Papers  Over break, how would you like to  
Reasonable Rates  fulfill your dream of being an actor/  $#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  ••• FOR SALE •••  Let us take the worry out of your  
277-7406  actress for a day and help me out  USC Stud. Tckt.  2or4 FSU GAs  decision. Call to team about us, the  
at the same time?! If interested,  Best Offer  HAVE USC GA TO TRADE FOR  Call Kara x2687  love we have to share, and the life  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  call Sonia x1298 ASAP  Raghib 4-0505  ANY FSU ERIN x2785  with name and offer  we would like to provide for your  
CALL 259-8684.  baby. Strictly legal. Confidential.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Parisis' Restaurant now hiring part­time wait staff for weekends. Minimum age 21. 1412 South Bend  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR USC & FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  Will trade roommates' credit cards and $$for USC GA's............ please call Brian x1586.  USC Stu. tix for sale x4022  Call Sylvia and Ben. 1 (800) 579­7207  
Ave South of Notre Dame. After  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ Consider a life of patient love from  
LOST-BLUE POLO JACKET IN  4pm 219-232-4244  LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­ FSU GA4Sale  Mom, financial security from Dad,  
DE BARTOLO 102 FRIDAY A.M.­ 6183.  Call Kevin 310-444-9923  laughter and music in a country  
HAS SENTIMENTAL VALUE  BRETT AND  FSUGA  home for your baby. Please call  
CALL KIM X3518  SEAN!II!IIIII!IIIIIIIIIII!!!III!  We will purchase at handsome  40 yd In, row 24  FSU GA 4 SALE. BEST OFFER  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172  
price four seats together for the  NEED I SAY MORE?  X2773 BEFORE 10/22.  anytime.  
Very Lost: A small, black leather  Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO)  Tim@ 608-255-2175  
bag with a shoulder strap, that con­tained a Nikon camera lens, as well  FOR RENT  457-0486.  FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA offer Erin 634-4800  best  I can't even THINK straight! glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556  
as instructions. Not really sure  CA Alum paying top $ lor FLA  Need USC student tickets. Rick  
where it could be ... If you have  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  273-5347  It's not a lifestyle, it's my LIFE!  
seen it, please call Brian at  ND/SMC EVENTS  NEED 2 USC GA ERIN 634-4800  
#3363. Thanks!  (219) 291-7153  DESPERATELY NEED ND-USC  I NEED 1 USC STUDENT TICKET  glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556  
GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  PLEASE CALL EMILY 634-2856  I need 2 GA's or Stud. Tickets lor  
Lost: keychain with car and apt.  ROOMS AVAIL IN PRIVATE  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  USC. Please call4-133911!!!1!!11!!!1  Adoption: Doctor and professor will  
keys. If found. please call Libby  HOME FOR FOOTBALL WKNDS.  NEED 2 FSU TIX  make dreams for your baby come  
at 287-9479  OVER AGE 30 PREF. NICELY  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  STU orGA  true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  
· DECOR. 277-8340  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  $$  Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST.  city; summer by the beach: Your  
DOES YOUR FINGER HURT? If  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  Kristi x4241  GA's. Call Dan X1694  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­ 
so. you may be the person who left  Seeking rommate to share house.  place in winter, and by ocean  
their finger brace in the Observer  $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev.  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
office. It is really gross to look at;  Call Frank or John  FSU STUD TICKET -50 YD.  best education, endless love. Call  
please come get it!  HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­ 1-800-7 49-5975  LINE-<:all Allison 273-41934est  Franny or Stephen collect  
FAST ALLIANCE -LOCAL &  Will trade DISNEY tickets  Need BC Tickets!  offer  (212)369-2597  
WANTED  NOTRE DAME GUESTS. FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE  c c ( c ( c ( (( ( c ( ( c ( ( c ( ( ,oooooo,,),) )) , ) , , , , , ) ) ) )) )  x2846  4 sale 4GA Flo St best offer gets  LONDON PROGRAM  
STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989.  I, like everyone else in the world,  called back 634-2193  
GREEKS & CLUBS  24-HR. ANSWERING MACHINE.  need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­ +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  APPLICATIONS  
RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST  perate than all of them, though.  BOSTON COLLEGE  
ONE WEEK! For your fraternity,  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  USC GA'S FOR SALE  2 GA's $200/offer  are due  
sorority or club. Plus $1 ,000 for  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ Please call me--Diane x4253.  BEST OFFER  277-8017  5:00PM  
yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $210.  277-4953  Friday, Oct. 22  
for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75.  EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's  FREE Billy Joel ticket for anyone  
BUS 232-8444.  call Beth@ X2615  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  willing to drive 3 lovely ladies to  $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%  
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up  Chicago concert Nov. 16  
to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career  ROOM FOR RENT.CLEAN,FRN­ Need GA's for USC  2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BEST  Call x2843  I need FSU tickets ...  
employment available. No experi­ SHD,CHARMING RMTS.  call Gary x1236.  OFFER-JON 215-630-9329  I'll trade two free airline tickets to  
ence necessary. For more informa­ 259-0219  the Bahamas usable anytime during  
tion 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584  ND ALUM needs several USC GAs.  Need FSU stud ticket  1 FSU Stud. Tik 4 Sale  the next year in exchange for 2  
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20  Please call (313)953-5572 after  Tim x1517  Make Offer  Mike x4246  FSU sudent tix or GAs.  
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  Min from ND Stadium $200 a week­ 7pm.  
EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE  end 616-699-7137  Need 2 USC GA's or studs.  Call Joe at 634-1577  
WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN,  2 FSU TICKETS NEEDED II Will  call  Katie x1120  NEEDED: 4 GA'S FOR PERSON­ 
EUROPE. HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­ take student or GA call Annemarie  AL USE ONLY. ASK FOR BOB  $%$%$%$%$%$%$%$%$o/~%  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  able for parents on weekends. 219­ at 312-404-5131 or 312-573-2143  271-9540,232-3511.  
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  291-2899.  Need four general admission tickets  THE COPY SHOP IN THE BASE­ 
SEASONS. GUARANTEED  NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  to USC game. Call234-7553 (day)  MENT OF LAFORTUNE IS  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­ Executive home for lease, six  $$$!111 CALL TOM 254-9013  or 234-3873 (nile). Also looking for  I NEED 3 ST. TIX FOR USC.  ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS  
4398 ext 31  months, $950.00 per month.  FSU.  CALL ANDY!! 4-2994  FOR PART  
Ridgedale area! Kevin Zeisz 288­ TIME HELP. APPLICANTS MUST  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  7826 Smith Zeisz Realtors 272­ -1need GAs lor the USC  NEEDTIX  BE AVAILABLE TO WORK WEEK­ 
find out how hundreds of students  5444.  game-Please call Katie at  USC  FSU  BC  I NEED 2 USC AND/OR 4FSU  ENDS AND EVENINGS UNTIL  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  284-5447­ CALL  MIKE  X0600  GA'S. Rich businessmen.  MIDNIGHT. COME IN ANYTIME  
and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ FOR SALE  Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs  Call X1523 Ask for Rob.  DURING STORE HOURS TO PICK UP AN APPLICATION.  
ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  for family.  Please call Rich X-4499  FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV.5  1 FSU GA 4SALE. Best offer by  
Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  CALL WADE -0789  Nov. 7. Mike219-634-1187  MOLLY CROSBY! MOLLY CROS­ 
Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  $$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$  BY! MOLLY CROSBY!  
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6  -can Phil x3543  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY!!!  
(800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  days includes12 meals $2791  FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC  Will Trade 1or2 BC + 1USC STUD  
Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  FOR SALE  and/or cash for 1 FSU: any combo  THE JUGGLER  
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK  Cancun from Chicago $439,  Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for  #1 vs. #2-it's worth every penny!  Iii' sis needs a ticket:273-4822  the Campus Literary  
'94! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­ Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  up to 4 GA S.C. tix OR will buy S.C.  Call Levell at 3305-let's negotiate  and Arts Magazine  
DA. S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE  West $239, Daytona Room w/  tix. 631-6305 or 291-4240  will take submissions  
PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386  Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any  UNSIGNED SENIOR  until5:00 PM  
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  My cousin Frankie is coming out.  home game. Call Aaron @ 272­ TICKET BOOK FOR SALE  Friday, Oct. 22  
TOURS 1-800-426-7710  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  He needs one FSU student ticket.  3418  with stud. tickets for USC, FSU, and  in the English Office  
SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  Call Joe Russo at 234-6306.  BC. 2731420  356 O'Shag  
EARN UP TO $10/HOUR Motivated  CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND  I STILL NEED 3-5 U.S.C. GA'S.  Questions? x4-2688  
students needed for PIT marketing  VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN  CALL JOE @ 4-1654  For Sale, 2 USC and 2 FSU Stud,  
positions at your school. Flexible  NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN  Call 272-3263  HOT OIL!!!  HOT OIL!!I  HOT OIL!!!  
hrs. Call TODAY! 1-800-950-1039  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  ALL CALLS  Need: 1 USC GA. Location not  
ext. 3065  284-5062  important. Call Mike 4-4367.  NERD BOY LOVES YOUI!!!!!!!II  
$$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA  FOR SALE: 2 FSU, 2 BC GA'S.  
Babysitter w1d. for occas wkend &  FOR SALE: organic cornfed beef  STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$  Need 4 GA's for USC  FAIR PRICE. 273-9838.  Spot­ 
wknts. 232-5388  whole or half, raised in Noble  Call Kim 284-5344  Happy Birthday to my favorite dog!  
County, Indiana and fed only pure  For Sale: GA's for all games. 277­ Wish I could be there.  
I NEED A RIDE FROM DC TO ND  corn, pasture grass, mineral salt  1659.  I failed all my midterms and my  SELLING 4 FSU GA's  With love from your dream pup, Fifi  
AFTER OCTOBER BREAK  with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins,  life's going downhil. Cheer me up  
WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND  and limestone-filtered well water.  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DES!  and sell me your FSU Stud. tix  Serious Money Only! Lv offer  ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE  
TOLLSPLEASE CALL EMILY  Custom aged and cut at Yoders in  CALL ME TONIGHT! Tom X1480  MEETING  
AT 634-2856  Shipshewana, and delivered to  Ron 273-098{l  11/1  
your door. $1.80 pound hanging  FOR SALE: 2 FSU tix  7:30p  
Seeking male roommate to share  weight, with $25 deposit.  291­ Moira x1275 or·Ceila x1281  107 LAFORTUNE  
apartment. Close to cam­ 1797 .... ."your steak in the country"  I NEED 2 USC GAs  stud tic usc 2735909 ask for jack  
pus.$215/mo+utilities. 273­ 2 USC GA's for sale  blue sky = good mood  
6187or631-5445 Michael  1 Plane tckt.  PLEASE CALL TARA  
SB to Greenville/  AT #4975  USC stud. tix for sale  Interested in FSU tickets??  HAPPY early BIRTHDAY  
2 GREAT girls need ride from Minneapolis/St. Paul to ND on 10/  Spartanberg, SC 10/22 & back  My family can no longer make it  How about two FSU for $3? -for a  JEANNE TOBIN!! -Sarah, Jen, Autumn  - 
31 Will help with $ & entertainment  10/31 X2485  please call Pat 634-3281  raffle ticket.  
call4995  NEED 1 USC GA. JODI 273-5805  Each ticket earns the bearer a  BRETT IS SOOOO GOOOOOODIII  
STAMP COLLECTION-call KJ  Two GA's to USC, FSU & BC for  chance to win two FSU tix.  SEAN IS NOT BAD, HE IS GOOD.  
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  @ 232-7838  sale.  
Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go  I NEED FLA STATE GA'SIII  Leave name, number & offer: 273­ Tickets are available thru  J-gawd damn it! I expect a friendly  
FREEl Best trips & prices!  STILL HAVE DEPECHE MODE TIX  CALL •• 232-5030 ••  9805.  Sophomore Class Council Dorm  nap this afternoon!  
Bahamas. Cancun, Jamaica,  FOR OCT28 OR 29.GOOD PRICE.  Representatives.  
Panama City! Great Resume expe­rience! 1-800-678-6386!  PLEASE BUY THEM! 259-0219  I need USC tickets Call Dave at 1-4542  NEED 2 FSU TICKETS BIG ALUMNI BUCKS  Drawing is Nov. 8 at La Casa de  SEE ANDY  - 
FOR SALE  Call X4164  Amistad.  SEE ANDY RUN  
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS,  Rich Alumni needs 3 FSU GA's and  RUN ANDY RUN!!  
EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!  USC STUD. TIX.  any BC tix. Call216-867-3473  Need two std tickets for Florida St.  HAVE FUN IN MICHIGAN!!  
Student Travel Services is now hir­ CALL MATT X1962  Will pay $100 per. If interested, call  *FOR SALE*  
ing campus reps. Call @800-648­ NEED 2 F. ST GA'S FOR RICH  277-4817  WE'LL MISS YOU!  
4849.  FOR SALE  COUSINS $$$JIM 232-3807  USC Stud. Ticket  LUV,  
Need FSU Stu. & GA  Eric x1087  Call Deb X4707  BARB&  
WANTED Ride back to ND after fall break  TICKETS  I NEED 2 USC GA'S -ANDREW X1881  MINDY  '.  
from Richmond/DCNA Beach area  FSU STUD TIX FOR SALE x1457  ERIN, JACKIE, JULIE & ROBINI!III  
at the end of break. Call Marc at  I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  Buy my USC stud. ticket, please.  Here is your oh too groovy  
634-1 089. Will help with tolls and gas and will be forever indebted.  TIXS.272-6306  Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted! Please call (407)438-3697  Call MUD at x2575 today I  2 FSU GAs 4 sale brice 273-0926  personal from the greedy one. We shall never forget "the boy".  

.... 1

!__________._..__________MM..a.-..--u-------Ud'.W..U."""*A£--~-.4<-·•.A.aU.-.L .._._~o~.-. ..'Li>.. .,•.-. .... ••-----··-"""·--·--'--·--•-'" '" ·--"'"' '" -""--•·~·~' "·-"' ""'.-.~ .... ~ ....·~· ~ ... ,..-.... ' J• ·~·· .· 
~ -----------~--~ 

Friday, October 22, 1993
page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT 
-

Exceeding Expectations 

It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. There are many reasons to join Deloitte & Touche­our clients, our dedication to quality, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: to consistently exceed the expectations o/our clients and our people. 
With 15,000 people in more than 100 offices in the United States, and through our global organization, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse port/olio of services. For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a firm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the following graduates /rom the Class of '93 who have recently joined Deloitte & Touche: 
jeffAbbot Paul Darno Bernie Grzelak foe Maida Angie Smith Matt Amann Lew Derbes Rhonda jackson Mike O'Brien Adrienne Speyer foe Ashby joseph Desantis Keith Kucinski joe Quinn Kim Steel Ruth Borromeo Drew Doyle fenny Kulbieda Bob Reilly Chris Sukow Matt Cenedella Scott Ecker joe Laur Russ Singer Dan Walter Mike Cipriano Steve Egan Cory Lawrence jeremy Smith Ken Wincko 
In addition, Mark Bangasser, Nancy Davis, Ivan Hoffman, Ashley Kocevar, Angie Kolbas, Brian Murray and ]on Oleksyk are ftrst 
Deloitte & 

/rom the class o/'94 to accept our offer o/employment a/ter graduation. Welcome Mark, Nancy, Ivan, Ashley, Angie, Brian and ]on! 
Touche 

The above professionals are joining our of/ices in Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, Cincinnati, Detroit, Hart/ord Indianapolis, Los Angeles, LouisviHe, Milwaukee, New Orleans, New York, Orange County-Costa Mesa, Parsippany,
-


Phi/adelphia, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Richmond. Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 
We L 1 • s t e n • We D e 1 1 • v e r . 
-
Deloitte Touche Tohrnatsu International 
Deloitte [-!Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote witlwut regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 



................................ ,. ..................... . 
Friday, October 22, 1993 


6Ie's !}3islro & ~ ~ta Q~~~ 
(_) _jO~ 
{)~Q; Fine dining at moderate prices Qo Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ Theatre WOrks Playhouse -upstairs at the Bistro 
Ask about catering 257-0400 
MARiGOLD 
MARKET 

The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Schilling keeps Phillies' Series hopes alive 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Curt Schilling was tired and in trouble when he looked to the bullpen for help. 
Nobody was up. Nobody was left a day after a 15-14 night­mare. 
"And that's when I knew it was my game," Schilling said. "I knew this team would go to Toronto based on what I did." 
The Philadelphia Phillies are going back to Toronto because Schilling beat the Blue Jays 2-0 Thursday night, cutting their World Series deficit to 3-2. 
Schilling found the energy to escape a frrst-and-third, no-out jam in the eighth inning and went on to pitch a five-hitter for the Phillies' first shutout in postseason play. It came right after the highest-scoring game ever in the postseason, and the longest nine-inning night game in major league history. 
"He had to go nine. What else did we have left?" Philadelphia's John Kruk said. "Everyone pitched 100 innings last night -or at least the equivalent of that." 
Schilling slowed down Toronto's sprint to a second straight championship and kept 20 cases of champagne on ice in its clubhouse. The Phillies will try to tie the Series on Saturday night at SkyDome when Terry Mulholland pitches against Dave Stewart in a re­match of Game 2, which Philadelphia won. 
Schilling, MVP of the NL playoffs despite a pair of no­decisions, rebounded neatly from his loss in Game 1. He struck out six and walked three in handing the Blue Jays just their second shutout of the sea­son. Schilling pitched two shutouts during the year, both in April. 
"It was my nine innings," said Schilling, who threw 148 pitches. "I've always gone out with the attitude that if I don't go nine, I wasn't doing my job." 
Schilling shut down the mid­dle of Toronto's lineup to fmish it, setting off a wild roar from the 62,706 fans. They may have been even happier that Mitch Williams, the goat of Game 4, was standing in the bullpen with his jacket on when it ended. 
The Phillies won 13 years to the day that they beat Kansas City for their only champi­onship. Because of Schilling, this World Series turned from wild to mild. 
"It was a good example of a nightmare last night and the Curt Schilling show tonight," catcher Darren Daulton said. 
As usual, Lenny Dykstra helped the Phillies, drawing a leadoff walk from Juan Guzman in the frrst inning, stealing sec­ond and later scoring. An RBI double by Kevin Stocker in the 

EX'PRESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -LaFortune Student Center -631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00 pm Sa-turday, 8:00am -9:00 pm Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTED! 
Welcome Parents! Come Join Us At 

• Breakfast served all day •Lunch •Dinner 
•Or a snack ANYTIME 
Just Minutes from Campus 
OPEN 24 HOURS 
1710 
N.lronwood 
277-7400 


second made it 2-0. 
Schilling made it stand up with the help of three double plays. The only other pitcher to shut out Toronto this year was Baltimore's Fernando Valenzuela on June 30. 
The teams had combined for 65 runs, the most ever for the first four games of the Series, and had combined for 32 hits Wednesday night, tying another Series mark. Maybe the hitters were tired of swinging, maybe the runners were tired of scor­ing, whatever. 
"I prefer this type of ball­game," Phillies manager Jim Fregosi said. "To me, this is what baseball is all about, not 15-14. I don't like the kind of game we had last night." 
The pitchers also made it a quick night. The game finished at 11:06 
p.m. EDT after the previous four games ended at an aver­age of 12:18 a.m. 
"We knew it was going to be a tight game after the first time each team went through the lineup," Toronto's Joe Carter said. 
Schilling's jam in the eighth came when Pat Borders led off with a single and pinch-runner Willie Canate took third when pinch-hitter Rob Butler singled. 
He began to work his way out when Rickey Henderson's grounder bounced out of his glove but he threw home and got Canate in a rundown. Then he ended the inning by striking out Devon White and getting Roberto Alomar on a grounder. 
While Williams stood around 
in the bullpen, both teams had 
other pitchers ready. 
Mulholland was ready to relieve 
and Danny Jackson warmed up 
for the Phillies, just in case they 
needed to juggle their rotation. 
Pat Hentgen, who started Game 
3 for Toronto, also warmed up 
late. 
After it was over, Schilling said he would be ready to re­lieve in Toronto. 
The Phillies ended a string of 
five straight losses at home in 
the World Series. The Blue Jays 
had won seven straight road 
games in the postseason, begin­
ning in Atlanta in the 1991 
World Series. 
Guzman also pitched well, 
allowing five hits in seven in­
nings. Any other night, that 
might've won. Against Schilling, 
however, it did not. 


lET US PREPARE. YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC. SO YOU CAN ENJOy THE GAME! 
GRAPE.~CLEVELP-ND 27?.·1922 

'A Great Way fa get together with Friends ar spend a Romantic Evening with Someone Special' 
WHAT KIND OF FONDUE DO WE OFFER'? 
chc,esc•hccf•dJJL"kcn scat'<lod•vegctahle• Haming c·h,JCnlate 
l ~l1 :-\D~ BEAT 'l 1 ~1.., 
-*" fles~·v~:"liiS ,;..!Cortlmend"J • I
-
219-255-1526 -: 
I 
1 ue:; 1hl;r~ -~i:!a.lr:'(J 1!.l ;n ---k ,. 
I
F~1 & 0.'\t .:...,edttrHJ ;1·.m ~0 iJ · 
.oliflCE:\TI R•\liSH\W,\1-; \ I:\\ Upper~ e\ ~~ U!d i~'ewery 81-Jg _j 
Friday, October 22, 1993

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
-Volleyball Grace -works overtime to -win soccer cro-wn 

-
_p_a_g_e-17-----l 
Women's soccer prepares for final weekend 
-
--~----------­

The Observer • SPORTS


By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team closes out their regular season schedule on the road against Ohio State and Detroit-Mercy this weekend. 
Both programs are in their first year of Pxistence. Detroit is a conference opponent, while Ohio State plays in the Big Ten. 
"They're both going to be ready in all aspects," said Irish junior Tiffany Thompson. "If we keep our intensity up, it will carry us through." 
Notre Dame is 15-2 and 
ranked third in the nation. 
"We're really excited to be 15-2 at this point in the season, especially considering the strength of our schedule," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. 
Although Detroit-Mercy is 
playing in its first year, forward 
Cindy Fix leads the nation in 
scoring, Leslie-Ann Graham is 
tied for 8th in scoring with 12 
goals and 7 assists. 
If the Irish beat Detroit, they 
will finish their conference 
schedule undefeated. They 
have not lost in the Midwest 
Collegiate Confereence since 
1991. 
"We have to make sure we 
don't take them lightly," com­
mented Irish senior co-captain 
Allison Lester. "There is talent 
on both of their teams and we 
have to make sure we're 
ready." 
After this weekend, the Irish 
can look forward to the MCC 
tournament and the NCAA's. 
During break, the Irish will pre­
pare with two practices a day. 
"We're looking forward to 
getting through the weekend 
successfully and going to the tournaments," added sopho­more defender Ashley Scharff. 


Notre Dame is coming off a 12-0 thrashing of Loyola. Freshman forward Stacia Masters scored 3 goals and had 2 assists to set a Notre Dame single game scoring record With 8 points. Lester scored twice and had three assists to estab­lish a new Notre Dame scoring record. 
Besides Lester and Masters, Irish scoring threats include sophomores Regan Coyne, Michele McCarthy and Rosella Guerrero. Scharff, sophomore Julie Vogel and senior Andi Kurek anchor the defense in front of freshman goalie Jen Renola. 
"We're gonna take one game 

-
at a time and play this weekend like any other game," conclud­ed Thompson. 



-
' 

Dillion dominates Grace to secure final playoff berth 


-
Dillon earned a playoff berth Thursday with a 20-0 win over Grace. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Friday October 22 Men1s Tennis vs. Southern Cal 
7:00 pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 

And ifyou're here for FALL BREAK 
don't forget: 
Men1s Ice Hockey vs. Western Michigan Friday October 29 7:00pm JACC Fieldhouse 

Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
junior Chris Monohan took it 15 yards to the Grace five-yard line. 
Dillon, facing third and goal for the second time, called again on Schreck who re­sponded with his second TD run of the night. Monohan then ran around end to score on the two-point conversion for a four­teen point lead at halftime. 
Besides the offense playing well, the Dillon defense turned it up a notch knowing their sea­son was on the line. Monohan, playing safety, led the defense with two sacks and a big tackle for a loss. Grace tried to mix the pass and the run, but only managed one first down on a penalty. 
The scoring was closed out in the third quarter when Monohan, on the halfback op­tion found sophomore Kenny Ellzy wide open in the end zone to widen the gap to twenty points. 
"Tonight we put it all to­gether," said Dillon captain Zach Budzichowski. "It was a real team e!Tort," he said. 
Keenan 14, Off-Campus 0 
Needing a win to stay alive in the playoff hunt, Off-Campus could do little more than watch a determined Keenan team defeat them 14-0, thereby giv­ing Dillon the final playoff spot. 

"This was a good win for us," said Keenan senior captain Matt Makowski. "We have been taking a lot of things for granted lately, but this week we just kept our focus." 
Keenan came out with this put the pressure on all night, renewed focus and ran the ball senior Mark Bessette and right at the heart of the Off­sophomore Dan Kraft had an Campus defense. After running interception apiece to lead the for one first down, sophomore secondary. 
. Ben Mitchell took the quick "We made a real attempt to pitch on fourth and 1 around work on the secondary this the right side for a 43-yard gain week in practice," added to the Off-Campus 3-yard line. Makowski. Mitchell, playing on a pulled Makowski went on to prove quad muscle, then took the his leadership on the field too handoff for the score to put the as he accounted for the Knights up by seven. Knight's final score. Spinning OfT-Campus tried to go to the ofT one tackler, the senior cap­air to solve the Keenan defense, tain dived in the end zone for but they would have no such the touchdown and the 14-0 luck. While the defensive line victory. 
esALJEe 
All ND Sweaters ~~c;a:: 20% Q FF ~~c;a:: 
Ready for Football Weather? 
**Buy 2 ND Sweaters and get an NO Sweatshirt at 1/2 price!** 

McKeel's Boutique 
North Village Mall, 52565 US 31N 219,273,4888 
Hours: Mon-Sat 9 a.m.-9p.m. Sun 11 a.m.-Sp.m. Accept Visa & Mastercard! 
A.IIILHCE 
~CIMMPION 
Tf)fMII 
Tlae HoUo TlaiU Hotlv~Ues • Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 
Distributed by:
1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 
209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 

__, 
look for theN' Image logo on the tag. t's your guarantee of quality. Why settle for second best7 
Play Ukra Champron Today. "'pmdtng 
The Works Bar and Grill 501 NNiles Ave, South Bend '2:37-9757 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Spons Writer 
The facts were simple for Dillon last night as they took on Grace in their final game of the regular season. 
A win coupled with an Off­Campus loss assured the Big Hed the last playoff spot in the Gold League. Dillon did their part in meeting this challenge as they pounded Grace 20-0. 
Dillon dominated every aspect of the game. On the opening drive, freshman Pete Meyers set up the first score, taking it down to the Grace 9-yard line on a 20-yard dash. Facing third and goal, junior Mike Schreck punched it in on the handofT for an early 6-0 lead. 
"The offensive line did a great job tonight," said Schreck. "There were some nice holes opening up," he added. 
After the Dillon defense stu!Ted Grace on fourth and 2, 

•••• , •••••••••••• ,,4.,4i.Qtloof'-l"''"'"'·'~··· ~
........... , ............ ,, ............... .. 
Friday, October 22, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-




OF INTEREST 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
LooK. A.,. lfl,,;, · · 
Bur<.C:>E.RS, BvRc>ER.'S, 

Tii'E.. FJ>,c.-r THAT IHE~·Il£ 1/A"j 7Lf oF HAfVI\3U~L£R.s 
Bu~<.GE~ ... THA.,.·s ALL 
No-r EvEN rYli\D£ oF 

\ /-lAmsuR.&ER. '::> 
!!l I 
fb_ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Draft org. 55 Analytical 
­29-theears prediction
t "Rule, 33 Epigram: Part II 60 End of the Britannia" epigram36 "The Endless composer Summer" 62 Ran into 5 Have the means subject 63 Subtlefor 37-de guerre distinction t t Barn resident 
(war whoop) 64 Give impetus to t4 Neighbor of 
38 One piece of 65 Work diligently 
Thailand 

information 66 Is intuitive 15 Dealer in hush 39 Sulcus 67 Dream idly money 
40Coop 
DOWN

16 Hawaiian swaggerer
acacia 

42 Prestigious D.C. 1 High: Comb. t 7 Start of an workplace form epigram by J. J. 
45 Epigram: Part Ill 2 Cheering words 
Ingalls 

3 Present time 20 Muslim period 4 Span1sh space 21 Stood behind 5 Dugout shelters 
46 Memorable 

47 Cow's first 22 Network inits. stomach 6 Glassmaker's mixture
23 Mountain: 48 Sponsorship 7 Region of E.
Comb. form 51 Ache all over Scotland24 Count of jazz 52 Certain trains 

a Geisha's sash 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Happen again 10 Hang loosely 1 t Steinbeck Sooner 
28 Long-necked 44 Lever support 55 Okefenokee
12 Fleece 

lute features
49 Hidden valleys t31nventor of an 
56 Q_uondam
30 Feast of Lots 

instant camera 50 Publish 
57 Flying prefix 
tBAn 31 Hatchet-burying 

51 Skills, in Sevilla 58 Pudding DINING HALL
inflorescence event 
thickener

52 Flaccid19 Biblical 32 Seldom's 
59 Feds of a kind 

pronouns opposite 53 City on the Oka 
61 Where most 
-=+::-+=:::-F+.::-1 23 Apertures in a 

34 Words of 54 Jersey, Kansas tuna comes solemnity or Oklahoma from1~~~--~~· 24 spongeLawn bowling, 35Amil. M.D.
Italian style 41 Baking

~7+=+::-t 25 Certain hairdos Get answers to any three clues 
direction

26 Star in Virgo by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
=+=-+=+::-i 27 Inventory at a 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
cooperage 


,..---------------------------------------­
-
SPORTS 
Friday, October 22, 1993 
Palmer provides punch in home finale 
By MIKE NORBUT Several of Notre Dame's six first half shots either Sports Writer barely missed wide or soared over the goal. The Leathernecks responded each time with a 
The Irish had a lot to be excited about last hard-pressing counter-attack that took a strong night. They were riding a four game win streak, Irish defensive effort to thwart. Notre Dame the longest for the team so far this season. They defenders Dane Whitley and Chris Dean shoul­were playing their last home game of the season dered the brunt of the pressure while Bert Bader on Alumni Field. Most of all, they had just recorded his fourth shutout in five games. jumped into the ISAA rankings this week, enter­"We didn't give them enough respect," contin­ing the poll at No. 23. ued Palmer. 
However, it was Western Illinois University Notre Dame outshot Western Illinois 13-0 in that got pumped for the game, showing poise and the game despite the flat performance. The fortitude against the overpowering Irish squad. Leathernecks were kept in the game by the Despite the lackluster performance, Notre Dame inspired play of Nowak. still prevailed 2-0. The Irish put the game out of reach late in the 
A bright spot for the Irish was senior captain second half. Freshman Konstantin Koloskov tal­Mike Palmer. The midfielder from South Bend lied his second goal in two games at the 80:13 contributed in both Notre Dame goals in the final mark when he booted a shot over Nowak to give home game of his career. the Irish a 2-0 advantage. Palmer was credited 
"I grew up playing here," said Palmer, a three­the assist on the play. year starter. "It's kind of weird playing my last game." With the victory, Notre Dame improved to 11-4 
Palmer scored what turned out to be the win­on the season, while Western Illinois dropped to ning goal for the Irish with 6:25 to play in the 3-12. The 23rd ranked Irish will travel on a first half. Freshman defender Brian Engesser three-game east coast road swing next week, as served the ball deep into the goalie box, where they will take on Old Dominion, Delaware, and the senior was waiting to pop a shot past LaSalle. Leatherneck goalie Tim Nowak. The score gave "We have a lot to prove," said Palmer. "We Notre Dame a 1-0 halftime lead. have some more respect in the conference, but 
Until that point, the Irish had been continually we still don't have the respect we need national­frustrated by the Western Illinois defense. ly." 
-By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR her career at ASU. "I have very Assistant Sports Editor fond memories of my time there, and I expect to see a lot After three weeks of playing of friends when we go back." weaker competition, the 12th­While Brown must be happy ranked Notre Dame volleyball to take a successful program team looks forward to the chal­back to Tempe with her, she lenge of facing other ranked discounts any notion of having teams as it travels to Arizona a special incentive to win. for three matches, facing ''I'm not trying to go there Northern Arizona, Arizona with something to prove," she State, and Arizona. explains. "Patti Snyder has Having improved to 16-3 on kept up the great tradition at the year and riding an eight the school, and they have a fine match winning streak, the Irish program." will see one final tune-up The Sun Devils are indeed match in Northern Arizona loaded with talent, including before facing its more highly one of the top hitters in the regarded neighbors. country in Christine Garner. The Lumberjacks have strug­Garner's statistics speak for gled thus far this season, hav­themselves, as she averages ing lost their last three matches 5.20 kills per game to go along to fall to 6-12. They have also with a .226 percentage, and yet to challenge a ranked team, she has amassed 201 digs while having been easily handled by leading the team in service aces both Santa Clara and Arizona with 27. State. Unfortunately for the Irish, Trina Keenan, a senior mid­Snyder does not even consider dle blocker, leads an otherwise Garner the best all-around unproductive Lumberjack at­player on the team, but rather tack, which has been handi­bestows that honor on Leanne capped by poor technical play, Schuster, another talented out­including numerous service and side hitter. Schuster leads the receiving errors. team with 203 digs, and is sec­Following the match with ond in both kills (194) and Northern Arizona, the Irish will block assists (28) while seeing 
0 0
face Arizona State in what must action in every game for the be termed the highlight of the Sun Devils. trip. The Sun Devils are 11-4 Against such talent as this, and currently ranked 17th in look for both Christy Peters and 
·"%.~· ..,., ' . '
the nation, but also offer a spe­Molly Stark to step up their cial challenge for Irish head games for the Irish. Peters has coach Debbie Brown, who led a tendency to play excep­ASU to five NCAA berths in tionally against top competi­1983-88. tion, as witnessed in her stellar 
''I'm looking forward to a fun performances against Long and competitive trip, and I Beach State and Nebraska ear-think the team needs that right now," stated Brown, who began see YOLLEYBALL I page 16 
Inside SPORTS 




lnterhall Soccer 

SMC Soccer 
World Series 
Grace wins a double­


Schilling goes the dis­
Injuries hamper the 
overtime thriller to cap­
tince to rescue Phillies

Belles as they prepare
ture the title 
from elimination 
for the season's final 
weekend. 
see page 16 
see page 15 

see page 15 





