__________ , -~------~----------------~----~----.-~.-----------------~---.----~--------------------------------.---------------~ 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 128 MONDAY, APRIL 19, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
L.A. is still peaceful after King~verdict Gurule: LOS ANGELES (AP) and Timothy Wind, a rookie Rev. Jesse Jackson preached a Jurors made
• NAACP Reaction I page 4 

Churchgoers rejoiced as the officer fired after the beating, message of rebuilding the area calm after the verdict in the were acquitted. and looking for hope in its ru­
Police had prepared for the

Rodney King civil rights case "It stayed quiet," Los Angeles ins. 

just decision
worst, fearing a repeat of the

held Sunday. Police, saying the Sheriff's Deputy Britta Tubbs "I know that behind every
violence a year ago when a

quiet was hard to believe, con­said Sunday. "No major dark cloud there is a silver lin­By JOHN LUCAS
state jury acquitted four white

sidered whether to pull some incidents. It's hard to believe." ing," he told about 2,500 peo­
officers of beating King, a black Assistant News Editor 
firepower off the streets. King, who made a dramatic ple. "But sometimes you have to 
motorist. All 7,700 city officers

Cries of "Amen" rippled appeal for calm during the riots pray to God for some insight to In light of evidence showing a
were mobilized and 600 Na­

through the First AME Church a year ago, didn't make a see the silver lining." lack control and an
tional Guard troops stood by in of 
congregation as the mayor, the statement after the federal trial. · "The beating of Rodney King, excessive use of force, jurors
armories. 

governor and others lauded the But peace prevailed after a Although some were dissatis­that's the cloud," he said. correctly convicted Sgt. Stacey convictions of two officers. fied that only two officers were "What's the silver lining? It Koon and Officer Laurence
federal jury on Saturday con­

"We come to praise God for found guilty, a fragile calm set­exposed (former Police Chief) Powell for their roles in the
victed Sgt. Stacey Koon, who 

peace in our city and justice in tled over a city fraught with Daryl Gates irreversibly." beating of Rodney King,
supervised the beating, and Of­

our courtrooms," Mayor Tom tension since the night the
ficer Laurence Powell, who according to Jimmy Gurule,
Bradley told churchgoers. beating -captured on video­Speaking of the four defen­associate professor of the Notre 
struck the most baton blows, of

"(Police Chief) Willie Williams tape by an amateur cameraman dants in King's federal civil Dame Law School. 
violating King's civil rights after

and I pleaded for peace ... we -shocked the nation. rights trial "two are going to a
a high-speed chase on March 3, 

knew we were ready to pre­At the church in riot-scarred physical jail, two are going to a NEWS ANALYSIS
1991. Officer Theodore Briseno 

serve the peace in this city." South Central Los Angeles, the mental jail," he said. 
"Nothing indicated that he (King) was the kind of threat that justified that kind of force 

Harassing 
-that is coming from a person who has worked with law enforcement officers and

caller 
seryed as a prosecutor on the state and federal levels for over 10 years," said Gurule, who served as a federal prosecutor

arrested 
in Los Angeles from 1985 
through 1989. By SARAH DORAN The vertlict, which came in Associate News Editor early Saturday morning, found 
Powell guilty of charges relat­Notre Dame Security arrested ing to the use of excessive force Mark Schmanski Friday after­in subduing King, while Koon noon on charges that he placed was convicted on charges that harassing telephone calls to he violated King's civil rights by University students. failing to prevent the assault by Schmanski, who was then the officers he supervised. Two 
employed delivering pizzas to other officers, Theodore campus and has no association Briseno and Timothy Wind with the University, was identi­were acquitted of the same un­fied as a suspect in the case reasonable force charges of 
and questioned by Security, which Powell was convicted. said Charles Hurley, assistant "Finding two of the officers director of security. Schmanski guilty, while acquitting the acknowledged that he identified 
other two, in my opinion, students' names from hall di­
shows a careful and close de­rectories and called the stu­
liberation of the evidence," he dents from hall phones while 
said. making deliveries. 
In addition to serving justice, The harassing calls began 
the convictions are a clear indi­last November and were di­
cation that minorities can re­rected toward African-Ameri­
ceive justice in the United can, Hispanic, and Jewish un­
States, Gurule said. "This ver­dergraduates, both men and 
dict goes a long way to respond women. Seventeen students 
to those who say that a black reported receiving harassing 
man can't receive justice in calls, said Hurley. 
America." NO Security, with student co­
The first trial, held in the operation, determined that the 
summer of 1991, was symbolic calls were placed from resi­
because it sent a message to dence hall lobbies and devel­
minorities that there is a oped a surveillance system uti­
double standard of justice in lizing electronic tracing tech­
America, he said. The niques and undercover officers, 
convictions of the two major said Hurley. 
figures in the beating, Koon 
The Observer/John Bingham 
and Powell, dispel that notion, "When we received the com­
Staying afloat 

according to Gurule. plaints, we got together with 
"I think the fact that there is
Stanford Hall's entry in the Fisher Regatta, "The Piranha" makes its way across St. Mary's Lake with a
the victims as far as determin­no rioting in Los Angeles today, 
little help from the rescue team. The event was held in conjunction with the St. Ed's Carnival and both
ing what was going on and 
see KING I page 4 
events helped kick off AnTostal week.

what the next step would be," said Hurley. "The nature of the campus community enables us to investigate these crimes more readily than in a 
By JASON WILLIAMS gations in the past regarding regarding his sexual orienta­eases would spread to Ameri­
metropolitan setting." 
Assistant News Editor his homosexuality, but I don't tion. Dooley was given a dis­can military personnel who think anything has ever been honorable discharge from the were not immune to the ill­
About 1 0-12 victims allowed 
A recently-published book done in depth before," said Navy in 1956, which was even­nesses of the Far East. 
Security to put a tracer on their 
which documents gays in the Dennis Moore, director of Notre tually reversed to honorable "Dooley set up his medical 
phones that identified the 
military supports a long­Dame's public relations de­discharge as a token shortly shop at the refugee ca:rrips and number that the call was com­standing rumor regarding the partment. "What the sources of before his death in 1961. bust into a flurry of activity that ing from. "This service was of­homosexuality of Tom Dooley, these rumors have been I really "Getting his discharge up­astounded his Navy colleagues 
fered when the reports were 
one of America's most famed couldn't tell you, but they're not graded to honorable became a and would leave him revered made but many students also humanitarians and Notre Dame new." crusade for the rest of his life," for decades b.y hundreds of opted against it," Hurley said. 
alumnus. Dooley's humanitarian efforts Shilts says. thousands of Vietnamese," Randy Shilts' "Conduct Unbe­are enshrined on campus by a Dooley was assigned in 1954 Shilts writes. 
The tracer determined the 
coming: Gays and Lesbians in statue near the grotto, a room as health officer on the U.S.S. South Vietnam awarded origin of the calls but did not the U.S. Military," "picks up the · dedicated to him in LaFortune Montague, which was stationed Dooley the highest honor the record conversation, he said. 
story of gays fn uniform with Student Center and the Dooley near present-day Vietnam, to country could bestow on a for­America's involvement in Viet­Award, an annual humanitarian mediate the evacuation of civil­eigner, the "Officer de l'Ordre 
"It should also be understood 
nam and the case of Lt. Tom award presented to a Notre ians from northern Vietnam National de Vietnam," for his that we view harassment, Dooley," according to a book Dame alumnus. towards the south. He imme­efforts in providing medical as­whatever its nature and source, review in Sunday's Chicago Sun "Conduct Unbecoming" ex­diately began to treat thousands sistance to that countries citi­
as not just illegal, but also as a 
Times. plores the confrontations be­of Vietnamese located at see PHONE I page 4 "I think there have been alle-tween Dooley and the U.S. Navy refugee camps in fear that dis-see DOOLEY I page 4 

Book on gays in military supports Dooley rumors 
page 2 Monday, April 19, 1993
The ObseNer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
NATIONAL Weather 

College: a nice break before the real world 

As students at Notre  
Dame and Saint Mary's,  
we live at a place which  
is really quite different  
from the real world. No  
screaming toddlers at  
mass;  no  old people ~­ 
hobbling  . '"'"'"',:J.'"1\along  
sidewalks; no reason to Jason Williams  
take showers during  Assistant News  
the week.  Editor  

Have you stepped in-------­any dog crap lately as you cut across the grasses of the quad? Didn't think so. 
Have you gotten a really good night's sleep lately? Probably not. 
These things make me wonder what life will be like when we graduate and leave college. Some of us will be doing that in just a few weeks. The transformation from this to that may take a little while. 
Instead of the stereo, television will probably be the first thing to be turned on in the household when I come home from work. Paying debts on time will replace skipping a 

The Accu-Weattier® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 15. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
FORECAST A 1 00 percent chance of rain with highs in 60s. More rain likely in the evening with lows in the mid to upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  54  35  
Atlanta  77  51  
Bogota  63  45  
Cairo  102  81  
Chicago  60  50  
Cleveland  66  45  
Dallas  82  64  
Detroit  59  48  
llndianapolis  66  49  
Jerusalem  91  59  
London  61  50  
Los Angeles  78  56  
Madrid  79  43  
Minneapolis  48  42  
Moscow  48  30  
Nashville  74  52  
New Vorl<  70  47  
Paris  61  54  
Philadelphia  75  44  
Rome  63  41  
Seattle  58  41  
South Bend  6339  
Tokyo  79  54  
Washington D.C. 75  47  


Visa payment to take in a concert in Chicago. I'll probably also start taking care of my pets instead of letting my fish go belly up in the aquarium from water contamination by alcohol or urine. 
On the social side of things, I'll probably learn that bars can serve a purpose other than seeing how much beer my gut can hold on nights when all you can drink specials cost four bucks. Dorm geeks will begin to realize that there is more to do on Friday nights than trying to jam 50 or 60 sweaty bodies into their rooms. 
On the little more serious side of life, I suppose we'll have to start paying attention to all of the news and not just major civil rights cases or religious cult clashes with the FBI. I suppose we'll also learn that there is a difference between sleeping through our first class and the first few hours of our jobs. 
We're also going to learn that 70 percent o the world's population is not composed of white males. Some of us may also be surprised to find ourselves working with members of the opposite sex or, God forbid, admitted homosexuals. 
Imagine your first day of work. You come into the office, plop down in your chair behind your desk, and you notice that the guy next to you is hanging up a poster of a giant pink triangle. By following the reality Notre Dame and Saint Mary's want us to believe, we would either recognize the poster as a "neat geometric design" or some warped version of the album cover to Pink Floyd's "Dark Side of the Moon." 
How about sex and AIDS? There's no need for such talk here because nobody has intercourse until they are married. Just because every drug, grocery, department and hardware store in the country sells condoms does not mean there is an awareness about sexually transmitted diseases in America, does it? 
Regardless of what's really out there, all of us are going to have to face the real world. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gives us a nice four-year break from the rough and tumble pace o American society and culture. 
Whether or not this holiday will benefit us is still up in the air. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

VIewpoint Becky Barnes News Rolando deAquiar 
Michael O'Hara Lab Tech Pat McHugh Production 
Cynthia Ehrhardt Melissa Cusack Graphics 
Chris Mullins Accent Christy Fleming 

Sports George Dohrmann 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD 


PRAG E, Czech Republic Czech leaders are proposing a novel solution to the maze of financial claims and counterclaims spoiling relations with neighboring Slovakia: simply forget about them. The so-called "Super Zero" option would settle once and for all the division of federal assets that belonged to Czechoslovakia before it split into two states on Jan. 1. "It could be a source for future ... good relations," Czech President Vaclav Havel said Sunday in his weekly radio address. He said he believed the Czech Republic would lose financially under the plan. proposed by Premier Vaclav Klaus last week. but he added, "There is a question as to whether it would not be worth the loss." Under the terms of separation, the two sides agreed to split federal assets at a 2-1 ratio, reflecting the size and populations of their new states. It is unclear whether the Slovaks would approve of the plan. 

NATIONAL 


CRANSTON, R.I. -He was a Soviet rocket scientist and his father was the Soviet leader who set off the Cuban missile crisis and vowed to bury the West, but now Sergei Khrushchev is becoming a permanent U.S. resident. Khrushchev, 57, said the only step left before he and his wife, Valentina, 45, obtain alien residence cards, known as green cards, was an interview scheduled Monday at the immigration office in nearby Providence. "Of course I'm happy," Khrushchev said Sunday. He said his father, the late Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. would have been furious. Dan Danilov, a Seattle lawyer representing the Khrushchevs, said former Presidents Richard Nixon and George Bush and ex-Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara were among people who wrote letters in support of the Khrushchevs. 

MOSSVILLE, Ill. -Police arrested 167 members of the United Auto Workers during a rally at a Caterpillar Inc. plant where officials object to workers wearing T-shirts calling for the firing of the company's chairman. The workers were arrested Saturday on criminal trespassing charges. Caterpillar officials have ordered workers off the property if they show up in shirts and other clothing 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING April 14 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 256,053,775 -0.12 to 247.73 S&P COMPOSITE 

-0.56 to 448.66 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+ 11.61 to 3455.64
UNCHANGED 611 


GOLD 
+$0.50 to $338.40 oz 
SILVER 
-$.012 to $3.867 oz 
urging the dismissal of Chairman Donald Fites. Union members were arrested on two occasions earlier this week over such T-shirts and the rally that included a smattering of the offending clothing was called in response. Union members have been working under a company imposed contract for more than a year. The UAW struck Caterpillar for about three months in early 1992 but returned to work under threat of replacement. 

VAL C A, Calif. -A theme park opened as usual Sunday, a day after angry youths rampaged and thousands of people fled when they were panicked by rumors o gunfire. There were no extraordinary precautions Sunday at Six Flags Magic Mountain, although Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies continued to provide weekend security under a longstanding agreement. said spokeswoman Bonnie Rabjohn. Fighting broke out Saturday night because some ticket holders were turned away from the oversold park. which featured a concert by the hip-hop group TLC. More than 20,000 people were already inside. Park spokeswoman Eileen Harrell said she did not know how many entrance tickets were sold because some were sold in advance, some at the gate and some patrons had season tickels. Angry youths looted several stores and trashed two restaurants outside the park, about 35 miles northeast of downtown Los Angeles, and forced businesses to close. Forty people were treated for cuts and bruises. But no one was arrested and none of the injured suffered gunshot wounds, said Deputy Gabe Ramirez. 

EAST UTH RFORD, N.J. -Developer Donald Trump has proposed building a $50 million amusement park at the Meadowlands sports complex. Trump's bid was one o several outlines submitted for the planned amusement park. Robert E. Mulcahy III, president and CEO of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, said Friday. He declined to elaborate on the other proposals. The proposal for Trump Meadowlands Park was sent to the authority two weeks ago and includes plans for an $18 million monorail linking the park with the complex's sports facilities -Giants Stadium, Brendan Byrne Arena and the Meadowlands racetrack. Authority officials said the park would be constructed on a 20-acre parcel located just south of the arena and bordering the New Jersey Turnpike. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1775 The American Revolutionary War began with the Battles of Lexington and Concord. 

• 
In 1910 After weeks of being viewed through telescopes, Halley's Comet was reported visible to the naked eye in Curacao. 

•In 
1933 The U.S. went off the gold standard. 

• 
In 1943 Thousands of Jews living in the Warsaw Ghetto began their fight against Nazi occupation forces. 

• 
In 1951 Gen. Douglas MacArthur, relieved of his command in Korea by President Truman, bade farewell to Congress, saying, "Old soldiers never die; they just fade away." 


Monday, April19, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Berry: Man )must. I Rescher claims science 
By NANCY DUNN from u.sing the nQ~.ion 

does not disprove God 
News Writer "balance . o i nature~L evidEil1c~ of There By CHRISTY FREDERICK support that observed 
God has made humans stew-multiple interde}Jen,de:nciel News Writer character of the world can 
provide for faith in God.
ards of the environment. said 11atu;~. but jhey 
R.J. Berry in bis lecture titled¥ pragrriatic. · ·· While reasoning alone can­"Its focal issue is that of the "Knowing God in Nature: En-People should not not prove the existence of God, extent to which it makes sense vironmental Science and Green there are different levels God cannot be scientifically dis­to expect support for theology Religion." viewhtg something ·. proven, said Nicholas Rescher, in science's teachings regarding 
Berry stressed that man is explaining it, said Berry. of the University of Pittsburgh, nature," he said. 
in his lecture "Religion, Belief While natural theology is
responsible to God for every-instance, a simple painting can and Scientific Method." making a comeback today, the
thing that he does, including be described entirely i~ ter . his treatment of the environ-of physics and chemistry or · "Therefore, one cannot and problem lies in finding a valid ment. Although God created termsofthe artist's meaning. Previously, development should not believe that there is case for theism. "As yet, God 
no God," Rescher said. could be invisible in science
nature for mankind's use, hu­conservation were seen as 
"Blessed are they who have not too," Rescher said. "Those who 
mans still need to love it, he Berry cautioned agaJnstth . worlciPg agail)St each otherr i~9 added. pitfalls of reductionism that ar conservation. was sacrificed. seen and still believe." base theology on the science of Humans need to correct their employed in the ru-st explana­Now, the trend is to focus Reviewing the evolution of the day really do not have that scientific religion from Newton solid a foundation."
false notion that God has a tion .of the painting. Because sustain.able developlt!el1t,
Berry. ·· · to natural selection, Rescher The God that was evoked to
greater presence in the wilder• there are things that scienCe ness and startrealizing that alone cannot explain. "It is not said science is continually explain one time period may 
God is in everything. They to science that we should look Making calculations learning and uncovering new not be the God that is 
should find "a balance between for questions properly in t)Ic:t· the. pm>sihility of su~•tai:ning. facts. "Science does not have necessary to explain our time God out there, up there and realm of theology," he said, ··· · ·into infinity is se11se;les•s. monopoly on knowledge," he period, he said. "We need a God in the system," he said. are living now, he coJuctun,B(l> said. complex God for a complex 
Berry also said to refrain Berry showed a chart of tl:n~ so we should act now. The purpose of his lecture world," said Rescher, "a user­was "to deliberate evidential friendly God". 


Serbs siege Srebrenica, truce allowing aid signed 
TUZLA, Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) -Srebrenica's defenders caved in to a relentless Serb siege Sunday and signed a truce that permits aid and evacuations, but amounts to a virtual surrender of the strate­gic Muslim town. 
Many of Srebrenica's fighters resented the agreement and it was unclear if the cease-fire would last. Scores of truces in the Bosnian war have collapsed over the past year. 
It would be the Bosnian gov­ernment's biggest capitulation in the year-long war and un­derlines the weak position of the outgunned government forces against the Serbs and Croats who have seized most of the state. 
Serbs are driving for control of eastern Bosnia to connect the region with adjacent Serbia and other Serb-held areas of Bosnia and Croatia and create a "Greater Serbia." Only two other Muslim enclaves, Gorazde and Zepa, remain in eastern Bosnia. 
Just hours after Serbs and the Muslim-led Bosnian forces signed the truce, 130 Canadian 
U.N. peacekeeping troops en­tered the town to a hero's wei­come, said ham radio opera­tors. 

Crowds mobbed the peace­keepers' 22 armored personnel carriers and 19 trucks and hugged and kissed the soldiers. 
French and British helicopters then began ferrying sick and wounded to Tuzla, under an agreement permitting airborne evacuation of the 500 most desperate cases before an overland evacuation starts for all those who want to leave the town. 
U.N. officials said 133 people were evacuated by nightfall Sunday, and the helicopters would continue their mission over the next few days. 
Tuzla, 45 miles northwest of Srebrenica, is already overflow­ing with an estimated 60,000 refugees from the Serb drive in eastern Bosnia. There are up to 60,000 more in Srebrenica. 
Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serb leader, pledged to honor terms of the Srebrenica agreement. 
But in an irate reaction to the 
U.N. Security Council's decision Saturday to impose new sanc­tions on Serbian-dominated Yugoslavia, he threatened to boycott further U.N.-sponsored peace talks. 
One of the peace mediators, Britain's Lord Owen, said Sun­day he believes sanctions alone are not sufficient to stop the Serbs and reiterated his sug­gestion that military interven­tion may be necessary. 
U.S., German and French military planes on Sunday air­dropped about 60 tons of food and medical supplies over Sre­brenica. The airdrop has been concentrating on that besieged area in recent days. 
Club Column 
APRIL 19, 1993 

1) All Undergraduate Clubs: Letters containing allocation amounts for next year and concession stand assignments will be sent out this week. 
2) All1993-94 Club Presidents: Please notify the CCC of your 1993­94 campus address as soon as you have it. We need them before you leave campus this semester! 3)AII Graduate, Law, and MBA Organizations: Registration packets were mailed to you. If you have not received one, call the CCC at 631­4078 or Jennifer Blanchet at 634-4975. Packets are to be returned by April23. 4)Physical Therapy Club will meet Thursday, April 22 at 7:30p.m. in Nieuland Science Hall, room 180. Speaker will by Roy Wightman from Andrew's University. Free refreshments. 5)Feminist Forum and Women United for Justice and Peace will be holding a panel discussion on Feminism and Womanism. Panelists include: Rebecca Fewles, Kristin Clark, Marie Hardy, Tina Buchanon, Prof. Ava Collins. Prof. Gloria-Jean Masciarotte, Chandra Johnson and Prof. Joy E. Brown. Dinner reception to follow. Come and learn about "A Different Agenda", 7-9 p.m., Monday, April 19th, LaFortune Ballroom. For further information, contact Tonya Callahan, 634-2878. 
6) HAO Dinner on Wednesday, April 21st, 5-7 p.m. at the CSC. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-A U.S. warplane destroyed an Iraqi radar tracking site south of the no-fly zone over northern Iraq on Sunday after the aircraft was threatened, a Defense De­partment spokesman said. 
The plane, one of two on a routine monitoring patrol in the zone, was not fired on but "the crew felt threatened," said DOD spokesman Lt. Cmdr. Brian Cullin. 
White House spokeswoman Lorraine Voles said the action "is consistent with our policy that when our forces feel threatened, we're going to re­spond." 
Both aircraft safely returned to their operating base at Incir­lik, Turkey. 
Iraq's official news agency reported three Iraqi soldiers were wounded in the incident. The Iraqi News Agency, moni­tored by the British Broadcast­ing Corp. in Cyprus, quoted a 
U.S. airplane destroys Iraqi tracking site 
Q:Where will my parents stay for 1993 Graduation? 




A:Residence Inn! 
Rooms Still Available 
•One 
& Two Bedroom Suites 

•Complimentary 
Breakfast 

•Fully 
Equipped Kitchens 

•
Pool, Whirlpool, Exercise Room 

•1 
Mile from Campus 



Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying the attack was provoca­tive, hostile behavior. 
The spokesman, who was not named, said the attack oc­curred 33 miles south of the oil city of Mosul, apparently plac­ing it outside the allied-en­forced no-fly zone. 
The two U.S. Air Force F-4G Wild Weasel fighters were in the no-fly zone throughout the incident but were illuminated by the radar operating south of the 36th parallel, Cullin said. 
"They operated under the guidelines that when you're il­luminated it is considered to be a threat," he said. 
The 36th parallel marks the border of the no-fly zone over northern Iraq set up to protect Kurds from Iraqi attack after the Persian Gulf War. 
"One of the two F-4s in the flight responded by firing a single HARM (high-speed, anti­radiation .missile) at the Iraqi 
radar," the Defense Department said in a written statement. Officials believe the site was 
J

destroyed because "the radar ceased illuminating after the impact of the missile," Cullin said. He said no immediate assessment was available and there had been no response from the Iraqi government to the incident. 
"Although the Iraqi radar was located south of the 36th parallel, its associated missile system still posed a direct threat to coalition aircraft oper­ating in the exclusion zone, making it necessary for the coalition aircraft to respond," the statement said. 
The radar was located near Quayyarah West airfield, 11 miles south of the 36th parallel. 
"This is the first time below the 36th parallel that we have engaged a target," the spokesman added. 

716 N. Niles Ave South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 289-5555 
*FaresareeachW!I'flrom Chic"9obased onaroundtrippurchase. Taxes not included ond restrictions apply. Call for other wcrldwide destinations, both one way and roundtrip.
Council Ttavcd 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call for your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magar;ine 
page 4 The Observer Monday, April 19, 1993 

NAACP: Verdicts not completely just 


The Observer/Jon Thorn 

Rocking the Regatta 
The band River Bottom Nightmare performs at the Fisher barbecue. Erik Stevens, a junior from Fisher, is seen here with the microphone as one of the group's main vocalists. 
Foreign leaders find Clinton well-informed 
DETHOIT (AP) -The verdicts in the Los Angeles taped beat­ing case did not produce com­plete justice, the new head of the NAACP said Sunday, re­peating his plan to move the civil rights organization into a new era of activism. 
Benjamin Chavis was in Los Angeles on Saturday to hear the verdicts in the federal trial of four white policemen ac­cused of beating black motorist Rodney King. 
Two officers were convicted of violating King's civil rights; two others were acquitted. 
"What we received yesterday was partial justice. Not full jus­tice," Chavis told reporters be­fore the Detroit NAACP's an­nual Fight for Freedom Fund dinner. 
"But we've learned when you get some justice, you have to light for the rest," he said. 
Chavis was chosen earlier this month to succeed Benjamin Hooks as executive director of the 84-year-old, 500,000­


King 

continued from page 1 
in light of two acquittals, is significant," he said. 
Importantly, the media hype and the threats of rioting and violence probably did not affect the jurors during the federal trial, Gurule said. 
"Subconsciously, they must have been aware of it -it's difficult to imagine that they could be completely oblivious. At the same time, the verdict was consistent with the evi­dence," he said. 
The real issue of the case lies in the difference between the Vflrdicts of the state and federal trials, Gurule said. The federal prosecutors put on a better case, while the state trial of 1991 relied too much on the now-famous videotape of King being beaten, he said. 

"While the video in itself was damaging, the state prosecu­tors expected it to sell itself," he said. "The federal prosecutors went further to obtain corrobo­rating evidence." 
One important aspect to the federal trial was the testimony of King, who did not testify in the state trial. Having King take the stand for the federal trial helped the prosecution greatly, according to Gurule. 
"It gave the federal jury­the same jury that was told by the defense that he was a crazed drunken individual on member National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
"I came at this not so much looking backwards, but looking forward," he said. 
The NAACP has been criti­cized recently for being out of touch with current civil rights issues and lacking a grassroots focus. 
Chavis said his concern is the NAACP of the future, not the past. 
"Have we in the past maxi­mized our true potential? The answer is no," he said. "But can we maximize our true potential in the future? The answer would be yes." 
The Freedom Fund dinner has been held by the Detroit NAACP since 1956. Dinner Chairman Thomas Adams said the chapter expected to meet its fund-raising goal of $1.3 mil­lion. 
Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was the keynote speaker. 
PCP, a chance to see him, not as a threat, but as a person," he said. "It humanized the the videotape incident." 
The prosecution team was lead by Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer, who "did an excellent job," according to Gu­rule, who worked with Clymer during his time in Los Angeles. 
"He's a very tenacious prose­cutor and exactly the kind of person they needed to do the job," he said. 
The defense team made sev­eral important strategic errors in calling witnesses that dam­aged their case, Gurule said. 
Among them was the testi­mony of California Highway Pa­trol Officer Melanie Singer, who not only testified about the high-speed chase preceding the beating, but also described the cruelty of the blows by Powell. Singer ended up breaking down on the stand, which was damaging to the defense, acc~rding to Gurule. 
The defense also faced dam­aging testimony by officer Theodore Briseno, whose state trial testimony was shown against his will in the federal trial. According to Gurule, it was significant that Briseno, who testified that Powell was "out of control," could not be cross-examined by the defense because his previous testimony was on videotape. 

LONDON (AP) -World lead­ers who visit Bill Clinton's White House portray the presi­dent as informal, well-briefed and brimming with questions. 
German President Helmut Kohl reportedly exclaimed that the "chemistry is correct," and an Israeli journalist who cov­ered Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's visit spoke of "good music" between the two. 
For Russian President Boris Yeltsin, it was a simple matter of "ty" -the Russian word for 
"you"  used  only  between  
friends.  
"Maybe  not  in  the  first  

minute, but in the course of three hours we were already speaking 'ty' to each other," Yeltsin told reporters after his April 3-4 summit with Clinton in Vancouver, Canada. 
But Clinton's meeting Friday with Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa was an excep­tion to this chummy style. After three hours of talks, the presi­dent still complained that "the simple fact is that it is harder to sell in Japan's market than in ours." 
Overall, Associated Press bu­reaus report that the public ex­pressions of goodwill are matched by favorable off-the­record comments from officials who have met Clinton. 

Dooley 
continued from page 1 
zens. Dooley also inspired former President John Kennedy 
But personal diplomacy is fragile. Canadian Prime Minis­ter Brian Mulroney announced his resignation less than three weeks after meeting Clinton. Turkish President Turgut Ozal, a White House visitor on Feb. 8, died Saturday. 
It remains to be seen whether it makes any difference that Clinton and Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari discovered that they use the same type of watch to time their jogging. 
Some leaders have been im­pressed by Clinton's familiarity with issues and his desire to learn more. 
An aide to Mulroney, who met Clinton on Feb. 5, said some of Clinton's questions were quite technical, and involved Canada's health care system, a possible model for U.S. health care reform. 
In Paris, an aide who sat in on a May 9 conversation be­tween Clinton and President Francois Mitterrand said the French leader was impressed and even charmed. 
"Mr. Clinton asked President Mitterrand lots of questions, and Mitterrand noted that he listened very attentively. That helped much to establish a meeting of the minds," said the aide, who spoke on condition of 
to establish the Peace Corps. 
Dooley published four best­selling books which told of his experiences in southeast Asia. A December 1959 Gallup poll rated Dooley as one of the ten most revered men in America anonymity. 

That didn't happen with the Japanese. The Sankei newspa­per complained that Clinton fielded all but one of the ques­tions at a joint news conference with Miyazawa. 
"This could be described as impoliteness toward the prime minister, whose career in in­ternational politics is 27 years longer," the newspaper said. 
Dame Eugenia Charles, prime minister of Dominica, was also disappointed. Clinton "was responsive, but he made it clear that his main point was his domestic situation," she told The Associated Press. 
Kohl, meanwhile, resisted Clinton's overtures to press France to budge in stalled world trade talks. The Cologne Stadt-Anzeiger newspaper quoted Kohl as saying, "This was not a reception for receiv­ing orders." 
But Egyptian officials were pleased to find that Clinton's campaign talk about recogniz­ing Jerusalem as Israel's capital had been forgotten. 
While Clinton is seen as less friendly to the Arab point of view than was President Bush, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak was quoted as saying that he got from him an en­couraging feedback. 
behind President Dwight Eisenhower and Pope John XXIII. 
A 1948 Notre Dame graduate, Dooley received his medical degree from Saint Louis Uni­versity in 1953. 


Phone 
continued from page 1 
serious violation of the Catholic Christian spirit of the Notre Dame community," said William Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life. "We have the means to identify those who engage in harassment and we are continuing to investigate all such reports." 


Barbara Anne Wilson 
has been plauing with nre. 
Please i~ca1111er at 4-4234 


Monday, April 19. 1993 The Observer page 5 


Seventeen killed in S. Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Black gunmen in a stolen car shot dead 17 blacks Sunday night in the township of Sebokeng, police said. Twelve others were wounded. 
The attack came when ten­sions were high in South Africa, on the eve of the funeral of black leader Chris Hani, slain by a white suspected rightist. On Sunday, thousands filed past his casket in a soccer stadium. 
Police said they could not establish a motive for the town­ship slayings. There was no reported link to the Hani killing. 
Witnesses told police the at­tackers fired from a Volkswa­gen that was later found gutted in the township south of Jo­hannesburg. 
Police Maj. Joseph Ngobeni said the group of black gunmen killed a couple, stole their car and then drove around different parts of the township shooting other people. 
One shooting -killing two men, two women and two chil­dren -reportedly came from a different car, but witnesses could have mistaken the model, he said. He said all the victims were black. 
Machone Marumo, local chairman of the radical Aza­nian People's Organization, told the South African Press Associ­ation he received a telephone call that members of his group had been shot by people in a 
Please continue to conserve energy. 
~~ a &,Jlid ntND! 



~jJff -2/d !!!J:Ia# 
ce~~ 

G{J!(;;n, so;d. !J&eJt & @911:#1 

Qe want to talk to you... 
The Office ofUniversity Computing (OUC) is acampus service organization. It's mission is to meet the various needs ofthe campus community. To better understand these needs, the OUC directors plan to visit adifferent part of the campus every day ofthe week ofAprill9-23. Come talk with us. Hear our upcoming plans, and let us know what we can do to better serve you. 
SCHEDULE 

Monday , April 19 3:30-5:00 131 Decio Tuesday, April 20 12:00-1:30 121 Hayes-Healy 3:30-5:00 262 Stepan 
Conference Room Wednesday, April21 3:30-5:00 258 Fitzpatrick Thursday, April 22 3:30-5:00 Fosler Room, 
LaFortune Center Friday, April 23 3:30-5:00 121 Main Building 
Light refreshments will be seNed. 


~~~= Office of University Computing""""'""""=-"" University of Notre Dame 
gray Volkswagen. 
"I raced to the scene in my car," Marumo told SAPA. "I was about to take some of the comrades to Sebokeng Hospital when I heard that there were two other people also shot nearby." 
Hani, one of the African Na­tional Congress' most popular leaders, was assassinated in his driveway on April 10 by a white right-winger. Hani was head of the Communist Party and leader of the ANC's military wing. 
Several violent protests and looting occurred in the past week, and the government has deployed thousands of extra po­lice and soldiers to try to main­tain order during today's fu­neral, expected to be one of the biggest political funerals in the nation's history. 
His killing raised fears that extremist attacks could in­crease tension and threaten talks between mainstream black and white leaders on end­ing apartheid. Political leaders have said the talks must con­tinue. 
At the ceremony in the sta­dium, the crowd stood silently as eight ANC soldiers dressed in green uniforms carried Hani's coffin to a marquee. 
Police arrested a white ex­tremist after his killing, and on Saturday detained a top leader of the pro-apartheid Conserva­tive Party in the case. 

Law and Order Minister Her­nus Kriel said Clive Derby­Lewis was arrested under the Internal Security Act, which allows detention without trial. He said Derby-Lewis might have information that could help the investigation of Hani's death. A date for his court ap­pearance was not set. 
The Conservative Party is the main opposition group in the white chamber of Parliament. 
ANC president Nelson Man­dela, his estranged wife Winnie, and most other top South African black leaders, along with former Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda, came to the stadium in Soweto where Hani's body lay in state Sunday. 
Flowers surrounded a yellow hammer and sickle symbol near the coffin. 
People sang and chanted while entering the stadium, then went silent as the hearse appeared. 
At protest marches Saturday in Johannesburg and Pretoria, communist leaders called for mass action to help topple the white government. 
The ANC has announced plans for a series of demon­strations over the next weeks, but low turnouts at Saturday's marches raised doubt about the ability to sustain a lengthy protest campaign. 
Navy attempts to end sexual harassment 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The Navy is trying to cast off the at­titudes that spawned the Tail­hook scandal by discharging sexual harassers and teaching every sailor from recruit to admiral what's proper conduct and what's not. 
In the past 13 months, 35 of­ficers and enlisted men and women have been discharged from the Navy for misconduct in connection with sexual ha­rassment offenses. Eleven ad­ditional cases are pending, Navy officials say. 
All service members now are required to attend repeated in­struction on dealing with sexual harassment. There are 18 sep­arate courses offered to civilian employees and active duty members of all ranks. 
A toll-free advice line has gotten 500 calls seeking coun­seling about sexual harassment in the first four months of its 

Reader Audition 
for 


Baccalaureate Mass 
and 

Senior Last Visit to Sacred Heart 

Tuesday, April 20th and Wednesday, April 21st 4:00pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

The Observer/Jon Thorn 

Take your best shot 
The dunking booth at the St. Ed's Carnival attracted many people to try their hand at sinking the voluntary targets. Proceeds from the carnival go to various charities in the local area. 
existence. 
"Tailhook ... jarred us into reality," Vice Adm. Ronald Zlatoper, Navy chief of person­nel, said in a recent interview. "It's the watershed event that got our attention. ... We have a big problem and we've got to get on with resolving it." 
At the now-infamous 1991 convention of the Tailhook As­sociation of naval aviators in Las Vegas, dozens of women, including naval officers, say they were pawed by Navy and Marine Corps fliers. The scan­dal claimed the job of Navy Sec­retary H. Lawrence Garrett III and several admirals. 
The Pentagon's deputy in­spector general, Derek Vander Schaaf, has completed a final report on the incident that is widely expected to produce more resignations and possibly even criminal charges. 
But the release of the report, demanded repeatedly by Congress, has been put off by Defense Secretary Les Aspin until a civilian Navy secretary is chosen by the White House. 
In the meantime, top Navy officials have decided not only to enforce "zero tolerance" for offenses but also to teach their 58,000 women and 500,000 men how to avoid them. 
"Tailhook ... has caused a tremendous amount of intro­spection, and we recognize that it's a cultural climate" that must be changed, said Rear Adm. Marsha Evans, who has been working the past year on the education program. 
Sailors found guilty of "a se­rious incident of sexual ha­rassment" will be discharged, she said. 
"This is not a publicity stunt for us, it is serious business." 

Monday, April 19, 1993 

page 6 The Observer 




Israel commemorates Holocaust, helps survivors 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Mera Go! tried to coax a crying woman on the other end of the telephone to talk about her experiences in a Nazi death camp. "I understand," she said. "I am a survivor too." 
Sunday was Holocaust Day in Israel -a day of melancholy music on the radio; of air raid sirens that brought traffic to a two-minute standstill; of cere­monies at which people took turns reading the names of some of the six million Jews who died under Nazism. 
In the Jerusalem office of Amcha, where Go! and others counsel survivors, it was day for 
Holocaust echoes through U.S. culture 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The llolocaust still reverberates through the American soul, a disquieting shadow over a na­tion that might have saved mil­lions of lives. whole towns, an entire European cu1ture -but did not. 
A half-century later, it is more than a memory. 
Eloquent survivors live among us and cultural tensions persist. "Ethnic cleansing" goes on in Bosnia, and the United States ­now home to a devastating museum of evil -still struggles to reconcile its interests and ideals. 
The dedication of the tomb­like U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum this week in Washing­ton marks an awkward inter­section of history and the mo­ment, underscoring the world's failure to protect Bosnia's Muslims from rape, murder, listening, talking, sharing pain and tears. 

Amcha -which means "the common man" in Hebrew­was a code word that helped surviving Jews identify each other in post-war Europe. 
It is now the adopted name of the National Israeli Center for Psychosocial Support of Sur­vivors of the Holocaust and the Second Generation, a private group set up six years ago. 
By mid-afternoon, some 300 people had telephoned Amcha offices in Israel's three largest cities, said director John Lem­berger. The calls came not just from survivors, whose number 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
unexamined, a subject too painful to contemplate. Particu­larly taboo was this country's complicated. delayed response to the crisis. 
Franklin Roosevelt has been described as semi-indifferent to the plight of the Jews, too wor­ried about domestic anti­Semitism to risk a flood of refugees. His administration refused repeated pleas to bomb the rail lines and gas chambers at Auschwitz. 
But Roosevelt was the only major head of state to pull his ambassador out of Germany after Kristallnacht, the Nov. 9, 1938, nightmare of violence against Jews. And once this country entered the war, U.S. soldiers became accidental heroes by liberating many of the death camps. 
"History is not simple. People are going to have to puzzle over it before they condemn or praise," said Robert Herzstein, a historian and author at the University of South Carolina. 
Some of the behavior seems cowardly today, said author Benjamin Ginsberg, a Holocaust expert at Johns Hopkins University. "But I hate to judge people for what they did and didn't do in a different world," added Ginsberg, the son of survivors. "America didn't do much, but it did more than anyone else." 
Historians and Jewish leaders trace several U.S. foreign poli­cies to increased sensitivity as a result of the Holocaust, among them the special relationship between the United States and 



Reserved seats: $7. Students and senior citizen discounts are available Wed., Thu. and Sun. Tickets arc availahlc at the LaFortune Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call: 631-8128. 

Wed. April21 -Sat. April 24 at 8:10pm Sun. April25 at p 
3:10pm 

WASHINGTON 
has dwindled over time, but from their children. 
"I got a telephone call from a man who says to me, 'My father put me on a train a week before the Germans marched in. Am I a survivor? I haven't reacted to it for years. These last two years I sit before the television and I cry'," Lemberger said. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, addressing the main state service at Yad Vashem Holo­caust Memorial in Jerusalem, said the experience taught Is­rael "not to trust in others, only ourselves." 
"The State of Israel is the guarantee that this kind of hor-
Israel; preferential immigration status for refugees, and years of pressure on the former Soviet Union to let persecuted Jews leave the country. 
Another consequence has been the strong, unified Jewish presence in Washington -due to that community's determi­nation to avoid the mistakes that helped make them power­less to influence U.S. policies toward Nazi Germany. 
At the time, says American University historian Richard Breitman, "some organizations didn't make rescue of the Jews from Europe their highest pri­ority. Others disagreed on whether you use quiet efforts to persuade government officials versus public demonstrations. There was no joint financing of rescue efforts. There were lots of organizations working at cross-purposes." 
The perceived clout of today's Jewish lobby has generated some backlash and even prompted President Bush last September to call himself "one lonely little guy" fighting 1,000 lobbyists for Israel. 
Commentator Patrick Buchanan made more acidic remarks that drew accusations of anti-Semitism as he launched a 1992 challenge to Bush. Anti­Semitic rhetoric has erupted occasionally from a few black politicians and academics, and there's been slightly accelerated activity among revisionists ­those who insist that the Holocaust never happened or was exaggerated. 
HALL 
ror will never again return," said the 71-year-old ex-general. 
Rabin flies to Poland on Mon­day to attend ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of the anti-Nazi uprising by the doomed Jews of the Warsaw Ghetto. 
Amcha has found increasing numbers of survivors who feel they have not long to live and must tell their story for the sake of future generations. Their children also seek help to ease the inherited trauma. 
In Ameba's Jerusalem office, six memorial candles burned beneath an easel on which 


SUMMER 


STORAGE 
reservation as low as $5.78 per month 
callil: 6 8 3 -1 9 59 16'll16l!llfumg§: 6 8 4-02 8 5 
!\laster Mini-Warehouse 
The Notre Dame 
Folk Choir 
announces 

Campus-wide auditions 
April19-23, 1993 
one of Notre Dame's principal 
liturgical choirs 
national and international 
touring 

a great repertoire of classic, 
contemporary and international 
sacred music 
If you're interested in joining Folk Choir, contact the Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office this week at 631-5242. This is the only week we will be recruiting new members (other than next year's freshman) for the next academic year. 
rested a poem that was scratched on the side of a cattle car transporting Jews to death camps. 
The woman who had phoned Go! stopped crying and said she was strong and didn't need help after all. Go! persevered, telling her to open her heart and talk. She pleaded to her to give her name, or a telephone number -anything that would preserve the tenuous contact. 
The woman mumbled something about having been through Auschwitz and hung up. 




Viewpoint 
Monday, April 19, 1993 page 7 
The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor......... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor ...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .•.•.•••••.George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fang Accent Editor .••..•...•••••.•Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .••..................•. Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .•..Jennifer Habrych Controller ..•.•.................•.. Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631·5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631·6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
-= fLoRlDAS ENDANGERED SPECIES 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Jury cannot be held liable for actions of criminals 

Abortion debate has no place 
Dear Editor: 
The standard response of the Notre Dame administration when questioned about their inaction on the abortion issue is a talismanic appeal to the recti­tude of their past and present position. This is usually fol­lowed by a brief sermonette on the nature of a university and the "need to present both sides of issues". 
It is fatuous to suggest that all institutions of higher learn­ing are open to the discussion of both sides of every contro­versial issue. We do not debate "both sides" of incest or canni­balism or pedophilia even though we could probably find someone to espouse either side. 
What are the chances for the following discussions taking place soon: 
Resolved: The Holocaust Never Took Place. A faculty dia­logue at Brandeis University. 
Are Blacks Intellectually Infe­rior? Sponsored by the Trustees of Howard University. 
Why Females Can't Get the Hang of Math and Science -A colloquium for the student body at Vassar. 
Not only will the above de­bates not take place at institu­tions of higher learning which have a special antipathy toward the raising of such odious is­sues, they will not take place at Notre Dame either. Notre Dame will discuss "both sides" of abortion, however, despite the fact that the documents of Vatican II describe abortion as an "unspeakable crime". 
Father Hesburgh tells us that the University has "had confer­ences and published books which clearly show that Notre Dame is against abortion". There was a Planned Parent-
Dear Editor: 
I take strong exception to the views of Mr. Rolando de Aguiar as expressed in the Observer of April 14, 1993. He recommends that the jury in the Rodney King federal trial convict the police officers; for to do otherwise would surely provoke the same kinds of civil upheaval we all witnessed last year. 
I don't deny that an acquittal may indeed result in a renewal of these horrors. But to hold the jury responsible for such a contingency is just not valid. The ones responsible for the rioting, looting, mayhem, and murder are the ones who commit the acts. How ludicrous to contemplate a rationale of "the jury made me do it". 
No, the jury must conduct its business as if the possibility of violent reaction does not exist. To be swayed by such fears is nothing short of mob rule. The jury is charged with determin­ing whether or not these offi­cers violated the civil rights of Rodney King on a particular night two years ago. 
They must perform this 
charge by weighing all infor­mation that comes to light within the court room: the video, the testimonies, the ap­plication of the fourth and fourteenth amendments, and the instructions of the judge. They must deliver justice as best they can, basing their de­cisions only on the merits of this particular case. 
To do otherwise would be a total dereliction of duty. To do otherwise would exhibit a total disregard for our judicial sys­tem and the body of law it sup­ports. 
Our society is quite im­perfect. The injustices of racism, bigotry, poverty, and ignorance permeate American society. Our courts must be a bastion of blind justice; a sanctuary, if you will, where the ranting, ravings, and threats of the mob are not considered. If the courts are other than this, we will all witness the demise of our society as we know it. 
Ralph Vogel Administrative Info. Services 1993 

......---------------·----··-------------., 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
5Q A5 50MEONE aJH0'5 f3&tN 7HE3RE, I'M C1Jr1P£UBJ 
TO ASK-WHAT IAJEI</3 YOUR. 
F£U!NGS? WHAT WAS FOR/3­MOST IN YOUR. THOUGHTS"? 
"Nonviolence and truth are inseparable and presuppose one another. There is no god higher than truth." 
Mohandas Gandhi 
Be true; submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D.• IN 46556 hood sponsored conference on abortion at the Notre Dame Continuing Education Center. After the Conference, Harriet Pilpel, Chief Counsel for Planned Parenthood, stated that she "didn't know" what Notre Dame's position was on abortion. If a sophisticated New York lawyer is not sure of the University's position, how "clear" can it be? 
I am aware of only two mem­bers of the Notre Dame faculty who have written books oppos­ing abortion. Most of Professor Rice's books usually contain at least one chapter expressing disdain for the lack of a high­profile pro-life position by the Notre Dame administration. James Burtchaell wrote Rachel Weeping, a superb book but when last heard from he was the first tenured professor to be tarred, feathered and run out of South Bend on a rail. 
There should not be pedantic two-sided discussions of abor­tion at a Catholic University. There should be an end to self­serving presidential soliloquies about the obviousness of Notre Dame's pro-life commitment. My abortionist peers in the medical profession who make their living dismembering sec­ond and third trimester unborn children and crushing their skulls may lament the violence of the pro-life movement but their hypocrisy should not spill over into Catholic academia. If is time for the Notre Dame fam­ily to put principle before politi­cal correctness. 
Eugene Diamond, M.D. Class of '47 April 8, 1993 

Monday, April 19, 1993 



•

1n 
nvo ve 

0nile offers en~ofilie~year acliuilies 
By LAUREL FABIANO Francois Daubigny, and
Doering speaks on rural celebra
Accent Writer Charles-Emile Jacque, all from the Barbizon School, will be featured. The collection also

life in France 

Norman Rockwell's depictions includes works by Jules Dupre of rural life are as American as and Antoine Vollon. apple pie. His portraits of a Doering will show how these 
family gathered for idealizations of rural life, which Thanksgiving dinner or of a contain themes comparable to young boy and girl at a dime the works of Norman Rockwell, store counter bring to mind im­turn up in French poetry of the ages of a simpler time in the 19th century, as well. "Avec ton early 20th century. Parapluie Bleu" by Francis 
This Tuesday, April 20, this Jammes, for example, will be same theme will be explored by compared to Jacque's drawing, Bernard Doering, an associate entitled "The Sheppard." "The professor of romance language Sower," by Victor Hugo, will and literature, however Doering also be compared to one of the 
BY MATT CARBONE 

will discuss rural life in 19th drawings in the exhibition. 
Assistant Accent Editor 

century France. His NoonTalk Doering is an associate will take place at The Snite professor of romance languages Museum of Art. and literature at Notre Dame 
As you walked through the

Doering will speak on and has taught at the university doors of Stepan Center, you left
drawings currently exhibited at since 1965. 
behind your own culture, and

the Snite. The drawings portray The talk is the last in the stepped into a whole new world. 
an idealization of the at­Noontalks series which began Drums, bells and dancers in elab­mosphere present in rural back in February at the Snite. 
orate costumes greeted you. 

French country life during the The 45 minute talk will begin at This was the scene yesterday at19th century. 12:10. It is open to the public the traditional Native AmericanIn particular, the works of and is free of charge. Space is 
pow wow sponsored by the

Nicolas-Louis Cabat, Charles-limited to 50 people. 
Native American Student's Association and the Office of Minority Student Affairs. Yesterday's gathering was the fifth annual edition of the pow wow. 


According to Deswood Etsitty, a graduate student and president of the Native American Student's Association, a pow wow is a "spiritual gathering foremost. and is also a time to interact socially." 
!lis group sponsored the pow wow because "we just wanted to bring awareness to Native Americans, as well as to remind people, especially on this campus, that there are Native Americans here.'' 
Besides sponsoring the pow wow, the Association also attends other pow wows in the Midwest, 

The Observer/Dave Hungeling actively recruits Native Americans to come to ND and 
The Snite is now displaying students artwork. Many were awarded for their fine works in photography, sculptures, paintings and prints on Sunday. 


Students honored at art show Chris 
By TARA CAVALLARO an opportunity to view the high include painting, sculpture, and Ana Zablah in studio. 
Accent Writer quality work produced by the printmaking, ceramics, Vincent Hazen won the Mable art department," Dibble said. industrial design, graphic Mountain Award for Dibble mentioned that the design, photography, drawing, outstanding work in all media. 
Selected students will display show is honored by having computer animation, and fibers. Also, Ana Zablah received the their talents for the next month Susan Visser, the executive Several awards are given out Hepler Award for her work in in an important venue. director of the South Bend every year for outstanding all media. 
On April 18, the annual Regional Museum of Art, as a works in various categories of For photography David Hun­student and Master of Fine Arts juror this year. media. In addition, the geling won Gene's Cameral exhibition opened in the Snite Dibble encourages the Beardsley Award is presented Award, and both Molly PennyMuseum of Art's O'Shaughnessy students to view the student art annually to an M. F.A thesis and Rich Krueger individuallyGallery. The show will remain exhibit before it leaves the student for the 'Best of Show.' received the Professional open for viewing until May 16. Snite. "It is an excellent show Photography Materials Award. Admission is free. this year. I hope everyone can Award winners were an­An award for outstanding 
get over to see it," Dibble said. nounced Sunday during the work in fibers was presented by
The exhibit features works by Sixty students have works dis­opening reception of the exhibi­Sally's Stitchery to Genny Gray.students of the Department of played in the juried show. There tion in the Snite Museum of Art, Art History, and Design. are also seven students in the Art's atrium. Makielski, Inc. offered a Artworks are separated into B.F.A. division and live students This year's featured Beardsley variety of awards for design.three divisions. There is an in the M.F.A. division. Award winner is graduating Recipients include Charmagneannual juried division for M.F.A. student Michael Krueger. Martinez for first place in non-art major students, a B.F.A. students participating Krueger's works include paint­two-dimensional design,Bachelors of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) this year include Anll--Marie ings and prints on dimensional Ann-Marie Conrado for first showcase, and a Masters of Conrado, Steven Cozzolino, frames and sculpture, place in three-dimensional Fine Arts (M.F.A.) showcase. Michelle Devers, Eric Kreider, according to Dibble. design, Michelle Devers for sec­
Jean Dibble, a faculty Charmange Martinez, Michael ond place in two-dimensional member in charge of Muldoon, and Ana Theresa The Riley Awards are design, and Steven Cozzolino transporting student art to the Zablah. M.F.A. thesis students presented to a graduating for second place in Snite Museum of Art and include Jim Grams, Michael B.F.A. students for exceptional three-dimensional design.working with the jurors, com­Krueger, Angela Michielutti, grade point average and overall Finally, Kara Duncan and mented on her enthusiasm re­Frank Sipos, and Robert Stel. quality of artistic endeavors. Derek Chalfant were awarded garding the show. Many varieties of media are This years Riley Award winners Honorable Mention for their 
"We want the campus to have used in works at the show. They were Eric Kiredler in design individual works in sculpture. Pasquerilla East senior Paulita elves during Christmas in April. 
-----· ~------------~~~----------~-~~--~--------------­
page 9 



•




r1n 
' 

American with one daughter In addition to the songs and attending, and one daughter dancing, many traders of authen­graduated from Notre Dame, was tic Native American arts and one of these dancers. Topash crafts were on hand for the pow lives in Berrier Springs, MI. and wow. usually attends about five or six These vendors offered a wide pow wows a year. selection of Native American jew­
elry, shawls, vests, dolls and fig­
As he danced, Topash was urines, as well as different acces­dressed in a costume that was sories for the costumes worn by worn by his ancestors. He wore a the dancers. head-dress made of eagle "I find [a pow wow] to be a feathers, which were provided by positive social and spiritual the Department of Natural experience," said Topash. Resources (due to the endangered species classification And so the day went on, until held by the eagle). 10 at night. Students, professors, 
The eagle holds many tradi­and community members alike, tional symbols for Native Ameri­attended the affair and seemed cans. to enjoy every moment of the 
"We respect the eagle for its celebration of Native American strength," said Etsitty. "It is a living. reminder to us of our spirituality -it's a very majestic bird." 
In one hand, Topash held a small staff made from the shell of a snapping turtle; in the other was a wooden rattle with many wooden shells attached to it. 
Most of the leather-and-bead costume worn by Topash was made by his wife, which is the norm among the dancers, according to Topash. 
"Most families do research at museums," said Topash, in order to make their costumes as au­thentic as those worn by their ancestors. 
The songs played at the pow wow were intertribal songs. They were intertribal because there are hundreds of tribes in the Great Lakes area, and by using intertribal songs, which are familiar to all of these tribes, the dancers are able to perform together. 
For instance, said Topash, all of the dancers know that on certain downbeats of the intertribal 
All three photos The Observer/John Bingham 
songs they are to raise their feathered staffs. The Native American Student's Association held a Pow Wow on Sunday, celebrating in costumes and dances. 
with every stroke from Steve's hand. "We wouldn't think we were a bunch of college 
had to throw on thick layers of paint for it do-gooders with no aspect on real life." 
to even stay." 

Although the deteriorated garage Kathleen found no such attitude as she, 
remained, the new coat of paint was a along with her group, was welcomed into 
noticeable difference, especially to Steve. the home of an elderly couple. In the eight
By KENYA JOHNSON 

"Sometimes, I get really upset with school hours they had, Kathleen and associates 
Accent Editor 

because I barely see the results of all that developed a rapport with the owners of the studying I do," Steve said. "But this-in one home, as they fixed up the area.
It was the third year in a row that Alumni day, I helped transform the appearance of "The guys raked the yard and plantedjunior Steve Senna rolled out of bed at 7:45 this house." bushes and flowers," Kathleen said. "The on Saturday, regretting that he signed up The house may still be run-down; the girls stayed inside and painted the livingfor Christmas in April. 
owners may not be able to maintain the room, dining room and a bedroom upstairs. new look; the boards of the garage may We also painted all the ceilings," she added "I was excited when I first signed up," 
break at any given time. proudly.
Steve said. "But I just started thinking 
But for now, and hopefully for a while, The exterior of the house was given aabout all the millions of things I had to do. 
the house is shining bright, and the owners make-over as well. The girls painted theBut I had an obligation to fulfill. I wasn't are proud. porch and the front of the house. 
going to back out on these people who were It was the third year in a row that Steve What a difference a day makes. 
expecting my help." 

went to bed early on Saturday night, "Everything looked great," Kathleen said. 
A bus left Stepan and entered a new 
overjoyed that he signed up for Christmas But still, even with its new look, the houseworld as it pulled into the lot of a church in April. didn't look right to Kathleen. The few some miles away. Steve stepped off the bus pieces of furniture in the house were oldand waltzed into the "Christmas in April" ••• and faded, and clashed with the brightnessscene-a scene filled with damaged housed of the newly painted walls. "But we didand unkempt yards. 
Kathleen Lynch didn't know many of the what we could," Kathleen said with a
"Honestly, it wasn't an impoverished 
people in her Christmas in April group. In reminiscent smile. 
area, like some inner-cities," he said. "But fact, she didn't even know that she had Apparently Kathleen's group was lucky.
everything was just so run-down. The resi­signed up to do the activity, and as a Rumors have it that one group tried todents either don't have the money to keep freshman from Breen-Phillips, did not know move a couch in one of the houses andtheir grounds, or can't physically do it." 
what to expect. discovered the carcass of a dead dog under 
Steve embraced the responsibility of 
"We were going to just work on the it. In another house, a girl opened a pantrycleaning and painting the garage, while church, but it was in pretty good shape so and found several dead rats. 
others painted the front and interior of the we went to a house that was listed," she ex­But these stories won't stop Kathleenhouse. 
plained. from participating again next year. 
"In a way I kind of felt bad," Steve 
As Kathleen walked upon the crumbling "It's a great sense of accomplishment to
admitted. "The wood was so bad and 
sidewalks, she felt butterflies fluttering in see the finished product of a house that
rotted, I thought we should have been 
her stomach. "I was pretty nervous at first," seemed to have no hope earlier," she said.
rebuilding the garage, not just covering it." 
she admitted. "I was worried about how the "But mostly, it's helping others -givingThe paint would slip off the rotten wood people would receive us. I hoped they them something that they need." 
page 10 The Observer Monday, April 19, 1993 

Montana to stay in San Francisco 
SAN FHANCISCO (AP) -While Joe Montana pondered the future as the "designated starter" for the San Francisco 49ers, Steve Young concentrated on constitutional law. 
Team president Carmen Policy said Sunday that Montana was offered the designated starter title going into training camp. The offer came in the wake of an announcement the quarterback had reached a three-year contract agreement with the Kansas City Chiefs. 
The offer basically places Montana ahead of Young, last season's NFL MVP, on the depth chart. It doesn't guarantee a starting position. 
Montana, if he chooses to stay in San Francisco, will compete with Young for a role on the field. That means the 49ers will enjoy the rarity of two league MVPs competing at quarterback. 
Montana, who has led San Francisco to four Super Bowl titles, could make a decision on the 49ers' proposal as early as today. 
With one year left on his contract, Montana was to make $2.5 million next season. But he was allowed by the 49ers to shop around after Young led the 49ers to a 14-2 regular-season record, the league's best. 
Young was not overly concerned about his status on the team, according to his agent, Leigh Steinberg. Young was studying for finals at Brigham Young in Provo, Utah. 
Steinberg said Young told him: "Whatever they need to do, let them do. I've got to study constitutional law." 
Steinberg, one of the game's most powerful agents, has been seeking a deal that could bring Young between $4 million and $5 million a year. He said Sunday that Young would not stand in the way of a resolution between Montana and the 49ers. 

"We respect the contribution that Montana has made for 14 years with the 49ers and respect his long career. The question of where he chooses to play is up to him. Steve has waited for six years to be starter for the 49ers and he is confident in his abilities to be starter." 
On Saturday, Montana met with 49ers owner Ed DeBartolo Jr., in Youngstown. Ohio. The two returned together to San Francisco on Sunday. 
Montana left the airport without comment, but Policy, DeBartolo and coach George Seifert met behind closed doors. 
Policy said the deal was now in the hands of Montana, who has had three surgeries on a troublesome elbow and has played in part of only one game in the past two seasons. 
'He does have other deals," Policy said. "Perhaps he might feel that the situation would be less complicated elsewhere." 
Montana's acceptance of the 49ers' offer would make Young, the NFL's MVP last season, the backup going into training camp. Young, a free agent but designated "franchise player" who can't sign elsewhere, is staying no matter what decision Montana makes, Steinberg said. 
"Steve is comfortable in his role as quarterback on the 49ers and confident in retaining that," Steinberg said. "But he will not stand in the way of any happy resolution between Joe Montana and the 49ers." 
When asked if Policy made it clear the actual starting role would be based on competition, Steinberg said Young is "quite confident in his ability to let his actions on the field speak for him." 
In addition to the Chiefs. Montana visited the Phoenix Cardinals, who were offering more for him than was Kansas City -the 20th overall draft pick. The Chiefs, who offered no more than a third-rounder, apparently had agreed to a deal involving a first-round pick. 
But then Seifert apparently reversed on his earlier statements that Young would start in the coming season. Policy said Sunday the idea to designate Montana the starter came from Seifert. 
Miller helps Indiana hold onto playoff spot 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Heggie Miller made eight 3-pointers and scored 36 points Sunday as the Indiana Pacers strenghtened their hold on an Eastern Conference playoff spot by beating the Milwaukee Bucks 108­98. 
Indiana is now tied with Atlanta for seventh place, and both teams have a two-game lead over Detroit and Orlando for the final two playoff spots in the conference. All four teams have four games remaining. 
Miller scored 16 points in the third quarter and added 10 in the final period as the Pacers handed Milwaukee its fifth straight loss. 
Magic 88, Celtics 79 
Nick Anderson's jumper with 32 seconds left broke Orlando's eight­minute scoring drought and sealed a victory over Boston. 
Shaquille O'Neal had 20 points and 21 rebounds as the Magic remained in the race for a playoff berth in the Eastern Conference. 
The Celtics, who had a three-game winning streak snapped, rallied from a 14-point deficit to trail 84-79 with 
3:44 remaining. Boston had six possessions during the next three minutes, but missed two shots and turned the ball over four times before Anderson's clinching basket. 
Boston, led by Reggie Lewis with 15 points, scored only 12 in the fourth quarter, while Orlando had just 11. 
76ers 106, Timberwolves 79 
Hersey Hawkins scored 32 points on 11-for-15 shooting as Philadelphia handed Minnesota its ninth straight loss. 
For the 76ers. the 27 -point margin of victory was their largest of the season and gave them their first back-to-hack wins since a three-game winning streak in January. The 76ers beat Orlando on Thursday. 
Jeff Hornacek added 19 points for the 76ers, whose largest win previously was 132-106 over New Jersey on Jan. 6. 
Nuggets 94, Clippers 83 
Dikembe Mutombo had 16 points, 21 rebounds and an NBA season­high 12 blocked shots, lifting Denver over Los Angeles. 
The Nuggets opened a 26-10 lead with 2:44 left in the first quarter, and the Clippers made only one serious threat after that. 
Chris Jackson scored 11 of his 24 points in the first period for Denver, which finished the quarter with a 34­20 advantage. 

The Nuggets expanded the margin to 49-28 late in the first half and took another 21-point lead, at 78-57, early in the fourth quarter before the Clippers scored 25 of the next 33 points, pulling to 86-82 with 3:19 left. Ron Harper scored all 11 of his fourth-quarter points during that spurt and finished with 17. 
Lakers 115, Warriors 112 

Vlade Divac scored half of his 16 points in the final quarter to propel the Los Angeles Lakers over the Golden State Warriors and into the NBA playoffs for the 17th consecutive year. 
Divac's layup with 4:43 left in the game put the Lakers on top for good, 101-99. A few seconds later, Divac stole a Warrior pass and was fouled from behind by Hod Higgins. lie hit both free throws to give the Lakers a 103-99 lead. 
A.C. Green and James Worthy led the Lakers with 22 points each, while Victor Alexander scored 29. 
The loss eliminated the Warriors from the playoffs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. a11he Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST (still ... ): Pair of gold clip-on  1993 grad. looking for roommate(s)  Turtle Creek townhouse  ALLSTATE  I NEED 2 RETURN FLIGHTS  
NOTICES  earrings on Friday, 3126, between Zahm and the beach near the boat  in Chicago area. Open to ideas.  6/1-mid·Aug. Furnished • $400/mo  CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU  FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON  
house. VERY IMPORTANT!  Call Brian at277-8490.  Matt 634-3332.  QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE  MAY23  
TYPING 256-6657  Call Bridget at X2721  COST-CUTIING DISCOUNTS:  CALL RICH, 631-5370  
I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE!  Looking to sublet this summer?  
Kim and Meg rock the world!  LOST  F. ROOMMATEIS & APT. NEEDED  Contact x1505 about space  . GOOD STUDENT  
4 SUMMER. TRTLE CRKICMP VW.  at Turtle Creek.  . PREFERRED DRIVER  1-WY TICKET:  
Fortune 500 Company continuing to  X2358 CORlE  . ECONOMY CAR  S.B. ->ANCHORAGE,  
expand internationally. Seeking  Summer sublet: furnished  AIR BAG  ALASKA • $200  
persons interested in becoming  LOST:  Help! Our babysitter is graduating.  2 bdrm house near campus  ANTI-LOCK BRAKES  MAY 31-CALL DAN  
integral players in the growth of this  A set of car keys and dorm keys at  Looking for friendly, energized  AC, nice yard, $300  @4552 OR 631-4308  
business. Regions targeted include  Stepen Courts. I need them by  person to sit occasional evenings &  Dave 232-7970  JOHN DAVENPORT,ChFC  
Europe, S. and Latin America, and Pacific Rim. After 3 pm, call 257­ Monday night. Please call Jim at 4­1184.  weekends fall '93. 1Oyr old boy & 6yr mentally delayed happy girl.  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  289-1993  PERSONAL  
5283, or 683-3195 for more  Need car. 289-3536.  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  
information.  WANTED  50,000,000 Babies  219-291-7153.  1-WY TCKT MAY 17  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  
Hey German Club members II  SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM  S. BND to SAN JOSE  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  
'·  Please join us one last time for  SUMMER JOBS  Child care provider needed in my  HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.  $200 obo Julie x2762  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  
some German food at Hans Haus  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Granger home.  GREAT RATES! AVAIL.  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  
on Thursday, April 22nd. We'll meet  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  20-25 hrs/wk. now through June 8  NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306  91 GEO Storm GSI, 17Kmi, 5 spd,  
at Library Circle at 6:00 and be on  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  & 30-35 hrs/wk through summer.  A/C, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277­ Are you interested in living in  
our way. Please call Colleen at  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Call271·1638  3956.  DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See  
x2866 with R.S.V.P.  CALL 1-800-786-8373.  ??????????????????  Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon  
Need mature part time sitter  ARE YOU STAYING AT  DESK for sale-25$. mike @  @ 271-1938.  
I am a Ugandan student aged 20  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ·  for 11 mo. olq. Days & occas- N.D. FOR THE SUMMER?  x2148  
years by the name of Kakimda  Make money teaching basic  sional evenings. Mom's work  
Robert, and I want some pen  conversational English abroad.  schedule is flexible. Miami Trails  Sublease at  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS?  Adopt: we are truly loving couple  
friends from USA.  Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­ area,  TURTLE CREEK  NEED FURNITURE?  who can bring love and happiness  
KAKIMDA ROBERT  $4,000+ per month. Many provide  south Fellows St.  Townhouse -2 bdrms  WE HAVE IT ALL!!  to your white newborn. We offer  
c/o GN SEBUFU  room & board + other benefits! No  Call291-7286, leave msg.  Rent is reasonable  CALL 273-2180  financial security and a great future  
REDO BARN  previous training or leaching  and negotiable  in our oceanside home.  
PO BOX 1610  certificate required. For International  Going to grad school at U of Miami  Medical/legal expenses covered. 1­ 
MASAKA  Employment program, call the  or living in area? Need roommates ­ Call Jeff at x3368  Cathedral ceiling and open living  800·438-6599 eves.  
UGANDA  International Employment Group:  call Mary 271-7288  ??????????????????  areas in this new 1350 sq.ft., 3  
ILOST & FOUN~  (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  WANTED TO BUY: dorm size refrigerator (1 or 1 & 1/2 cubic It). Will  "Students•• Now renting 1300 sq It condos at  bedroom, 2 bath ranch. Just 3 blocks east of ND campus and built by CRESCENT HOMES.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 in LaFortune Student Center QUALITY COPIES  
• fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  pay cash. Call Tim 631-7646 from  College Park Condominiums. All  273-2754.  as low as 3¢ each  
CO's "LOSr AT TONY'S OFF- canneries or $4000+/month on  8-4:30, M-F.  units include:  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
- CAMPUS PARTY ON GOOD  fishing boats. Free transportation!  -Security systems,  Computer desk ~ chair $75 or b/o.  
FRIDAY : Pink Floyd, Ocean Blue, Queen  Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience  FOR RENT  -Hard wood floors, -All appliances,  Call Mary 271-7288.  Hey Pittsburghersl We need someone to organize the  
TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY  necessary. Male or Female. For  -Washer & dryer in unit,  '86 Dodge 600 Conv., White,  luggage truck. If you need the truck,  
COMPACT DISCS·  employment program call 1-206­ SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  -Large balconies,  Low Miles, Great Condition,  call Diane at 4828  
I generously shared my house so  545-4155 ext.A5584  bdrms, close to campus, safe  -Gas utilities,  Must Sell by 5/17! $3500 obo  
we could party. I never expected  neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  -Free covered parking,  273-9406 Lynne- SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD  
someone would steal my precious  If anyone is planning on wurking in  utilities. Call Monica  -2 large bedrooms,  BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF  
CO's. Call me naive, but I trust a pers'ln  Hilton Head this summer and needs roommates to help pay for rent, call  232-2794.  -2 full bathrooms, -Only 1/4 mile from door of  TICKETS  TOURNAMENT ON SAT. MAY 8 OPEN TO ALL  
until he or she breaks that trust. I  Kelly @4121.  2 BDRM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL  Hesburgh library.  -PUBLIC SIGN UPS AT THE PRO  
work hard for the money I earn and  CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL  For appt.-272-0691 or see Off- Help!Help!Help! I need grad tickets!  SHOP BEHIND THE ROCK  
the CD's I buy. Please examine  COUNSELORS, summer camp for  YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277­ Campus Housing office.  If you have extra call Joe @ 277­ -STUDENTS SIGN UP AT THE  
your conscience and ask if what you  developmentally disabled, June 12­ 4155.  4273.  LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE  
did was fair to me. Hopefully, you will see justice like the thief who  Aug 21 , Orlando, FL (407) 889­8088.  OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT!  FOR SALE  HELP! I need 1 or 2 grad tix. if  -GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS I  
died with Jesus. I am not angry ,  1 Br wlloft, 2 Bth, fireplace,  you have extras call mike at 4­ 
just disappointed.  Nannies wanted to live in or out in  WID, garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill  FOR SALE  2148 or leave message at284  
Please call Tony with info x3603  the Chicago area. $300+ per wk.  or Caroline at  BED, DESK, CHEST OF  -5506 and let's make a deal.  Need a ride to South Florida  
working with caring families. Teri  317-297-8485.  DRAWERS, LAMPS, COUCH,  area after senior week.  
LOST-Pair of Brown Topsiders on  Burgess Consulting is a child care  RECLINERS, CHAIRS, ETC. VERY  Help! Need One ND Grad Tixl  Will helped pay for gas and  
Stepan Courts April 1, if found call  specialist who works with both  SUBLET: 2 bedrm turtle creek  LOW PRICES-MUST SELL!  Will PAY$$$ Call Jeannie  drive if necessary.  
X4600  family and nanny. 1-312-525-4800.  townhse: Javier 634-3686  273-2699-DARIN  284-5419  Call William@ 4-1961.  

Monday, April19, 1993 The Observer page 11 
•: l•tfi~ttJil] j i:!;1!' 

Grueling stretch ahead for Saint Mary's 
By JEN GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team's winning streak ended at five when they were defeated by Illinois Benedictine College, 5-3 and 10-4 yesterday. 
Illinois Benedictine was ranked tenth in the nation go­
ing into 
yesterday's

IBC 5 10 
games and

SMC 3 4 improved their 
record to 16-1 with the wins. 
Freshman pitcher Michelle Limb was handed her first loss despite the strong hitting of Sara Miller, who went 2-3 with 2 RBI in game one. 
The two teams played head­to-head most of the game, but strong hitting by Illinois Bene­dictine late in the game proved to be the deciding factor. 
Illinois Benedictine continued 
their strong hitting against 
freshman Laura Richter, who 
Saint Mary's 
Softball Schedule 
Date 1w  Opponent  
Monday  Wheaton  
Wednesday  Bethel  
Thursday  St. Francis  
Friday  Anderson  
Saturday  U. of Chicago  

Bold Denotes Home Games 
received the loss in game two. 
According to freshman Seanne Patrick, the Belles were not as focused in the second game. 
"We made a lot of mental er­rors in game two," she ex­plained. "As soon as we got be­hind, everyone started making mistakes." 
The Belles have no time to reflect on the loss as thev have twelve games in the next· week. They travel to Wheaton College today and then to Bethel Col­lege on Wednesday. 
The Belles then stay at home to play Saint Francis on Thurs­day and Anderson on Friday before going on the road again to the University of Chicago on Saturday. 
The final games of the season will be at home against Kala­mazoo College one week from today. 
Given the strength of the Illi­nois Benedictine team, Patrick doesn't feel that yesterday's losses will have a negative af­fect on team spirit as they begin this grueling stretch. 
"Because Illinois Benedictine was such a tough team, I don't think that the losses will affect us," she said. "We start with Wheaton, which should not be as tough a game. As long as we keep our heads up we should be fme." 

Irish softball sweeps past Lady Explorers 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame softball team swept a doubleheader against LaSalle 4-0 and 3-1 today at Ivy Field, improving their record to 21-11. 
In the opener, pitchers Terri Kobata and Staci Alford com­bined on the 
eleventh  NO  4  3  
shutout of the  LU  0  1  
year for the  

Irish. They blanked LaSalle (14-17) on three hits. Kobata started and went four innings, giving up one hit while striking out eight. Alford finished up with two-hit relief for her third save of the year. 
The Notre Dame offense smacked nine hits and was led by Christy Connoyer (3-3, two runs scored) and Andrea Keys driven in). The Irish scored three in the third on consecu­tive singles by Connoyer and Keys, a sacrifice by Stephanie Pinter, a hit batsman, an error by the pitcher and an RBI sin­gle by Michele Cline. 
The second game was almost a mirror image of the first, as Kobata (9-3) and Alford (4th save) once again combined to hold LaSalle to only five singles and one run. Kobata went five innings, allowing one hit while walking none and striking out eleven. LaSalle scored their only run and the first allowed by Irish pitching in 19 innings on an RBI single by Jen Bostak to score Maribeth Inverso, who had singled in the sixth. 
Complete coverage of this weekend's action and a pre­view of Tuesday's game will 
(2-3, one run scored and appear in tomorrow's paper. 
~ORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK OOVT 445 01 #4568 -remove "Permission Required" 
OOVT 480 01 #3872 -change prereduisite to: "OOVT 140 or 340" COURSES ~ANCELLED CQURSES AQDEI! OOVT 599 01 # 1598 -Graduate stu ents only AME 598A 01 #5!69 -Solid Modeling for Product Eng.; 3 cr. hrs. liPS 678 01 #3410 -add restriction: Graduate majors only ARST 3llS 01 4986 AME 699 J5 #5173 -Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.; Yang, K. LAW 591A01 #0985 -change to 2 credit hours ECON 563 01 3955 AMST 341 01 #5130 -Twentieth-Century America; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:00; LAW 596 01 #2233 -Permission Required EE 498} 01 4912 
Majors only through 2nd period, then open to all LAW 616 01 #2251 -change days/time to: TH 08:00-09:15 ENOL 41ZZ OJ 4991 
AMST 4J5 OJ #5131 -Women and the American Experience; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 12:50-LAW 65ZA01 #0980 -change days/time to: T 02:30-04:30 ENOL 423C 01 4992 
2:05; Majors only through 2nd period, then open to all; cross-LAW 662 01 #4403 -change to 3 credit hours OOVT 463 01 0817 
listed with AMST 515 LAW 677 01 #3232 -change to 3 credit hours osc 412Z 01 5002 
AMST 515 OJ #5132 -Women and the American Experience; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 12:50-LAW 696 01 #097 4 -Masters of Law students only osc 423C 01 5003 
2:05; Graduate majors only; cross-listed with AMST 515 MARK 350 01 #2284 -MARK 231 prerequisite HIST 604 01 4691 ANTH 485 01 #5174 -Directed Readings; 3 cr. hrs.; Majors only MARK 350 02 #2285 -MARK 231 prerequisite LAW 506 03 0470 ANTH 488 01 #5125 -Dir Research in Bioarchaeology; 3 cr. hrs.; MARK 370 01 #2286 -change prerequisite to: MARK 231, BA 230 and MOT 240 MI 604 01 4708 
Permission Required MARK 370 02 #2287 -change prerequisite to: MARK 231, BA 230 and MOT 240 PHIL 222 01 3662 ANTH 585 01 #5175 -Directed Readings; 3 cr. hrs.; Graduate students only ME 334L 01 #0165 -ME 334 pre/corequisite PHIL 410 01 4767 CAPP 499 01 #5170 -Departmental Tutorial; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required ME 425 01 #0038 -remove prerequisite PSY 361 01 3176 CHEM ll9L 07 #Sl 23 -General Chemistry I Laboratory; I cr. hr.; T3:30-4:20; also ME 438 01 #4875 -AERO 360 or ME 334 prerequisite THEO ZOO 03 1177 
meets T 4:20-6: 15; cross-listed with CHEM 117L-07 ME 439 01 #2434 -ME 334 and (ME 327 or CHEO 327) prerequisite OOVT 646 01 #5177 -Comparative Constitutional Law; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 3:00-3:50; MI 522 01 #4178 -change days/time to: TH 02:45-04:00 CLASSES THAT WILL Graduate majors only; cross-listed with LAW 620-01 MLJA 301 01 #2470 -change time to: MWF 02:20-03:10 REOPEN AT :Z:OO P.M osc 232 01 #5!28-Women: Alt Phil. Perspectives; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:00; MUS 203 01 #2516-change days/time to: MF 12:05-1:15; also meets: H 6:30-8:30 dlJ!lm. 
Permission Required; cross-listed with PHIL 232-01 PHIL 302 01 #0086 -change days/time to: TH 09:30-10:45 
MATH 104 04 #5124 -Finite Mathematics; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55 PHIL 448 01 #4769 -change time to: TH 01:15-02:30 ACCT 334 05 1287 
MBA 600 01 #5122 -Interpersonal Communications; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 08:00-09: 15; ROFR 241 01 #3246 -Permission Required AMST 301E 01 4587 
MBA majors only ROFR 241 02 #3247 -Permission Required ARCH 598 01 1404 
Ml 402 01 #5119 -Medieval Spanish Literature; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 2:45-4:00; cross-ROFR 241 03 #3248 -Permission Required ARST 241S 01 3297 
listed with ROSP 401-01 ROFR 241 04 #3249 -Permission Required BA 391 03 1213 
PHIL 221 01 #5126-Philosophy of Human Nature; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 ROFR 241AOI #4746 -Permission Required BIOS 405 01 0587 
PHIL 221 02 #5127 -Philosophy of Human Nature; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 04:15-05:30 ROFR 310 01 #2982 -change prerequisite to: Any 200 or 300 level French course CHEM 3331 04 1686 
PHIL 239 02 #5172 -Minds, Brains and Persons; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 04:15-05:30 ROFR 310 02 # 1254 -change prerequisite to: Any ZOO or 300 level French course EE 222 02 5087 
ROFR 413 01 #4731 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level French course EE 3421 01 1834 ~HANGES ROFR 478 01 #4 7 30 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level French course EE 344T 01 1837 ACCT 371 01 #(290 -change time to: TH 02:45-04:00 ROFR 485 01 #4729 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level French course HIST 358A 01 4098 AERO 454 01 #1324 -change prerequisite to: AERO 360 & ME 327 or CHEO 327 ROIT 312 01 #3260 -change prerequisite to: Any 200 or 300 level Italian ·course HIST . 394 01 2175 AME 666 01 #4884 -remove prerequisites ROIT 345 01 #3540 -change prerequisite to: Any 200 or 300 level Italian course LAW 676 01 2265 BIOS 575 01 #4950 -should be 3 credit hours ROSP 401 01 #5049 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish course ME 331L 02 4868 CLLA 343 01 #4720 -change time to: MWF 01:15-02:05 ROSP 411 01 #4744 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish course ME 331L 03 4869 CLLA 497 01 #(008 -change to variable credit hours ROSP 451 01 #4743 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish course ME 435 01 0688 COTH 461 01 #(731 -change to "Permission Required" ROSP 483 01 #4742 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish course Ml 538 01 3696 COTH 463 01 #4523 -change to "Permission Required" ROSP 484 01 #4733 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish course MUS 220D 02 0777 CSE 422 01 #3519-change days/time to: TH 09:30-10:45 ROSP 515 01 #0732 -change day to: M 1:15-4:00 MUS 221 01 3062 ECON 223 01 #(769 -ECON 223T corequisite ROSP 583 01 #4737 -change day to: W 1:15-4:00; change restriction to: PHIL 222 02 0769 ECON 223Tall ECON 223 corequisite "Graduate students only; undergrad majors by exemption" PHIL 224 01 0767 ECON 224AOI #4577 -BA students only through 3rd period; then open to all soc 441 01 #4801 -remove "Permission Required"; add: SOC 102 prerequisite & PHIL 225 02 4761 ECON 224B 01 #4578 -BA students only through 3rd period; then open to all Majors only PHIL 235 01 2619 ECON 301 03 #4919 -ECON 115 or 125 or 224 or 225 prerequisite soc 541 01 #3935 -remove prerequisite and "Majors only restriction; add: PHYS 221L 02 2656 EE 486 01 #(855 -change prerequisite to: EE 342 and EE 347 "Permission Required" soc 242 01 4157 ENOL 426F 01 #4581 -Permission Required THEO 255 all THEO 100, 195, 200 or 201 prerequisite soc 420 01 4164 OEOS 519 01 #5059 -remove prerequisite THEO 522 01 #3324 -change days/time to: TH 02:45-04:00 THEO 242 01 0706 OEOS 598AOI #4856 -remove prerequisite THEO 603 01 #!122 -change time to: T 01:15-03:45 THEO 243 01 4817 OOVT 403 01 #4076 -change days/time to: MW 12:50-02:05 THEO 644 01 #0691 -change time to: H 01:15-03:45 OOVT 436 01 #4652 -change prerequisite to: "OOVT 141 or 341" 
~LOSED SE~IIONS AS ARCH 598 011404 COMM 103 04 9704 ENOL 453 01 3693 HIST 393 013312 MI 530 014604 RLST 235 31 9531 OF 11:00 A.M. ~19/!t) ARCH 598 02 0401 COMM 103 05 9705 ENOL 470 01 4626 HIST 394 01 2175 MI 538 01 3696 RLST 235 33 9533 ACCT 232 02 1284 ARHI 483 01 4474 COMM 103 06 9706 ENOL 470 A 01 4993 HIST 395 01 0534 MUS 220 D 01 2522 RLST 235 35 9535 ACCT 334 05 1287 ARST 231 s 01 1436 COMM 210 12 9712 ENOL 480 01 4628 HIST 430 01 4443 MUS 220 D 02 0777 RLST 251 43 9543 ACCT 371 03 1293 ARST 241 s 01 3297 COTH 210 01 0344 ENOL 485 B 01 4629 HIST 458 014116 MUS 220 D 03 2521 RLST 339 51 9551 ACCT 371 04 1290 ARST 245 s 01 3566 COTH 373 01 4518 ENOL 495 A 01 1223 HIST 458 A 014115 MUS 221 01 3062 ROFR 310 02 1254 ACCT 371 05 1292 ARST 325 s 01 1442 COTH 377 01 3610 FIN 231 02 0571 HIST 473 01 4686 MUS 224 D 01 4755 ROFR 371 01 3472 ACCT 372 01 1296 AS 411 02 1489 COTH 435 01 4520 FIN 360 01 2033 HIST 473 A 01 4687 MUS 226 01 2524 ROIT 103 01 2986 ACCT 380 01 1297 BA 362 01 1496 COTH 440 01 4521 FIN 360 02 2034 HIST 474 01 3495 MUS 230 01 4756 ROSP 103 07 3007 ACCT 479 OJ 1304 BA 363 02 1843 CSE 331 01 0675 FIN 360 03 2035 HIST 474A 013494 PHIL 220 013904 ROSP 234 01 0241 AFAM 359 01 4430 BA 363 03 1499 CSE 33ZL 05 4841 FIN 360 04 2036 liPS 315 p 015033 PHIL 222 02 0769 ROSP 236 01 0239 AFAM 371 01 3652 BA 363 04 1498 CSE 471 01 3626 FIN 360 05 2039 liPS 320 01 3552 PHIL 224 01 0767 ROSP 310 013020 AFAM 384 B 01 3825 BA 363 05 1500 ECON 417 01 4458 FIN 361 03 2046 liPS 437 01 4970 PHIL 225 01 3662 ROSP 318 01 3476 AFAM 455 01 3886 BA 363 06 5052 ECON 443 01 1788 FIN 361 04 2042 liPS 584 01 3620 PHIL 225 02 4761 ROSP 328 01 3021 AFAM 486 OJ 4434 BA 391 01 1212 ECON 447 01 4559 FIN 376 03 2050 LAW 601 01 2236 PHIL 232 014131 ROSP 483 01 4742 AMST 301 E 01 4587 BA 391 02 1004 EDUC 324 17 8417 FIN 470 01 2060 LAW 616 01 2251 PHIL 233 01 4762 RU 373 01 0833 AMST 302 E 01 4588 BA 391 03 1213 EDUC 340 18 8418 OE 475 01 3865 LAW 631 A 01 2256 PHIL 233 02 4763 -soc 232 02 3331 AMST 303 E 01 4589 BA 490 03 1507 EDUC 404 30 8430 OE 575 01 3866 LAW 631 B 01 2257 PHIL 235 01 2619 soc 242 01 4157 AMST 354 H 01 4699 BA 490 04 1506 EE 222 02 5087 OEOS 141 L 034918 LAW 631 D 01 2259 PHIL 239 01 2189 soc 242 02 4159 AMST 365 H 01 4700 BIOS 304 01 1519 EE 222 T 01 1810 OEOS 459 01 4854 LAW .. 676 01 2265 PHIL 242 Oi 5102 soc 332 01 0509 AMST 367 H 01 4702 BIOS 304 L 01 1520 EE 342 L 01 1834 OOVT 316 0 01 4599 LAW 679 01 3656 PHIL 246 01 2620 soc 415 01 3938 AMST 368 H 01 4703 BIOS 304 L 02 1521 EE 344 T 011837 OOVT 342 02 0893 MARK 350 01 2284 PHIL 253 01 3666 soc 420 014164 AMST 386 H 01 4704 BIOS 344 L 01 1523 EE 498 B 01 4914 OOVT 342 T 01 3289 MARK 350 02 2285 PHIL 261 01 2622 soc 486 01 4571 AMST 387 H 01 4705 BIOS 344 L 02 1524 ENOL 301 A 01 1994 OOVT 342 T 02 3290 MARK 370 02 2287 PHIL 261 02 0279 soc 490 013043 AMST 388 H 01 4706 BIOS 344 L 03 0195 ENOL 301 B 01 0604 OOVT 342 T 03 3291 MARK 476 01 2291 PHIL 263 01 4135 STY 370 01 3650 AMST 401 E 01 4590 BIOS 344 L 04 0194 ENOL 301 B 02 4607 OOVT 403 01 4076 MARK 495 01 3421 PHIL 265 01 2623 STY 454 01 3561 AMST 402 E 01 4591 BIOS 401 01 2145 ENOL 312 011998 OOVT 403 T 01 4080 MATH 325 01 2353 PHIL 315 01 4765 THEO 242 01 0706 AMST 403 E 01 4592 BIOS 405 01 0587 ENOL 314 E 01 3776 OOVT 445 01 4568 MATH 335 02 1597 PHYS 221 L 02 2656 THEO 243 01 4817 AMST 404 E 01 4593 BIOS 463 01 0582 ENOL 319A 022001 OOVT 459 01 4457 MATH 438 01 2359 PHYS 221 L 05 2657 THEO 246 01 1155 AMST 430 01 0500 CAPP 315 01 1603 ENOL 322 01 2002 OOVT 478 01 4968 MBA 601 01 3984 PHYS 221 L 06 2658 THEO 250 01 1105 ANTH 310 013492 CAPP 361 01 1604 ENOL 327 01 4609 OOVT 486 01 3698 ME 331 L 01 4867 PSY 211 A 01 2780 THEO 253 01 1150 ANTH 328 01 3480 CAPP 416 01 0497 ENOL 328 01 3159 osc 220 01 3905 ME 331L 024868 PSY 341 02 3179 THEO 255 02 4818 ANTH 329 01 3734 CHEO 459 02 1642 ENOL 333 01 4610 osc 315 01 4638 ME 331L 034869 PSY 341 03 3178 THEO 258 01 0212 ANTH 329 02 4444 CHEM 119 L 01 3581 ENOL 340 01 3431 osc 430 01 3940 ME 331 L 04 4870 PSY 341 T 02 4923 THEO 264 014169 ANTH 359 01 4447 CHEM 333 01 1683 ENOL 384 B 01 3824 osc 495 A 01 4646 ME 331 L 05 4871 PSY 342 01 2784 THEO 265 01 1147 ANTH 405 01 3992 CHEM 333 L 01 0183 ENOL 392 B 01 4612 HESB 450 02 0414 ME 334 01 0167 PSY 355 01 0267 THEO 266 01 3072 ANTH 411 01 4450 CHEM 333 L 02 1684 ENOL 399 A 01 3688 HIST 308 A 01 3646 ME 334 L 01 0165 PSY 403 01 4788 THEO 266 02 1146 ANTH 431 01 4451 CHEM 333 L 03 1685 ENOL 415 z 01 4616 HIST 326 A 013463 ME 435 01 0688 PSY 421 01 0755 THEO 281 01 3675 ANTH 431 A 01 4985 CHEM 333 L 04 1686 ENOL 426A014617 HIST 358 A 01 4098 ME 469 01 0684 PSY 453 01 4790 THEO 282 01 4819 ANTH 454 OJ 3560 CLAS 441 01 1712 ENOL 434 z 01 4620 HIST 361 01 4442 Ml 318 01 3475 PSY 454 OJ 0754 THEO 290 OJ 0057 ARCH 443 OJ 1400 COMM 103 02 9702 ENOL 435 A 014580 HIST 370 01 3649 MI 333 01 4601 PSY 455 010753 THEO 395 01 3375 ARCH 543 01 1403 COMM 103 03 9703 ENOL 440 E 01 4621 HIST 371 A 01 5032 MI 432 c 01 4753 PSY 462 01 4791 THTR 135 48 9748 

.......-..--------------~-------------------~--~--~ ----~ -~-~-~-~----~--·----. ---------­
page 12 



Irish 
continued from page 16 
a Duquesne threat. 
Tom Price (5-l, 3.69) notched the win in the mercy-rule game with a two inning effort. The left bander has walked only five in his last 39 innings on the mound. Freshman Garret Carlson 
(5.40) pitched three innings of no-hit baseball to record his first career save. 

In the first game, the Irish jumped out to a two run lead in the third when an Eddie Hartwell squeeze bunt brought Robbie Kent across the plate and and a sharp Paul Failla grounder to shortstop which turned into an error drove Rowan Richards home. 
The Dukes threatened in the fourth when a Dan Engelhardt triple scored Charlie Basil to make the score 2-1. but fell short when Michalak struck out Buddy Dice. 
Notre Dame picked up three more in the sixth when Danapilis and freshman pinch hitter Mark Mapes (.615, 9 RBI, 12 games} hit run scoring singles and Korey Wrobleski smashed a RBI double. 
In the second game, Notre Dame picked up six runs in the first inning as Danapilis started out the inning with a lead-ofT home run, Craig DeSensi hit an RBI triple and Richards hit a three-run double. 
In the second, Greg Layson, coming ofT a foot injury, tripled and was driven in by a Ryan Topham single. 
Danapilis dominated the third with a HBI double to score Bob Lisanti to make the score 8-0. The Irish also picked up a run in the fourth on a DeSensi single. Danapilis hit his second homer of the day in the fifth for two runs to close the shortened game. 
Saturday's doubleheader was rained out and will be made up today. 
Notre Dame~ Baseball Schedule 
Date Opponent 
Tuesday Aprll20 Toledo 
Wednesday April 21 Purdue 
Saturday April24 Evansville 
Sunday April25 Evansville 
• 
Game va. Toledo will be played at Jake Kline Flald @3p.m. 

• 
Game vs. Purdue will be played at Coveleskl Stadium @ 7 p.m. 


SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Ultimate Club will be having practice at 4:30 p.m. every school day until the end of the year behind Stepan Center. Big Ten Open is this weekend. All are welcome. 
Intramural Champions who have not had their picture taken by HecSports please go to the JACC Arena today at 5:00 p.m. 
Save our trees. RECYCLE 

.. 
InJwn I\1J~c Plaza nexr ro Venture Grape Rd., M ishaw;tka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 



Rental Units Now Availa 
•1 
I 4 Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms


. 

•2 Bathrooms 
•Large Balconies CALL Now FOR APPOINTMENTS 

272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 er month 
The Observer 
.~,Ih .~ 
-fltwiilll>­
.....,.._._ 
The Observer/John Bingham 

An Ohio Wesleyan defender trips over Notre Dame midfielder Wille Sutton during the first half of Saturday's game. 


Loss 

continued from page 16 
all hopes of such a comeback by scoring two goals in the quarter's first two min­utes, to go up 11-6. After junior at­tacker Randy Colley scored his second goal of the game with ten minutes to go, Ohio .Wesleyan put the game out of reach with two goals to push the led to 13-7. 
"In the second half, we created no opportunities and were taken out of our game all-around," said Corrigan. "I didn't do a good job and we didn't react well to what was thrown at us." 
Overall, Notre Dame's play was fundamentally unsound as they repeatedly were outhustled for ground balls and did not communicate well on defense. Ohio Wesleyan's attack was known to be the strength of their team, yet the Irish allowed the Battling Bombers' midfielders to run the transi­tion game and set up their attackers for point blank chances against Irish goalie Hyan Jewell. 
Even though it was not a good performance, this loss does not harm Notre Dame's chances for making the NCAA tournament, but their play does not bode well as their last two games will determine if they capture the Midwest bid. The Irish have a full week to regroup and see if they can recapture 
•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 

•Covered 
Parking 

•Security 
System 



19 Delew are 3-6 13 20 Penn St. 2-5 7 
The Observer/Chris Mullins 

the play that once marked this team. 
"This week will be a character check for us. We're going to see what we're made of and see if we bounce back," said Corrigan. "Everything we've set out to do is still before us, this is where our season begins and ends." 
--~----------~--~-------------------------------------­
Monday, April 19, 1993 The Observer page 13 
--------------------------1:111iMW~i -------------------------­

Weekend split proves costly for women's tennis 
Observer Staff Report 
Going into the weekend's matches against Ohio State and Indiana, the Notre Dame women's tennis team knew that two victories were necessary to gain the Midwest region's automatic berth to the NCAA tournament. After splitting the two matches, though, the only hope the 21st-ranked Irish have left is to receive one of six at-large bids. 
The Irish stormed to their tenth straight win on Saturday against Ohio 
ND 6 

State, blanking the Buckeyes 6-0, then osu 0 stumbled on Sunday against the 11th­IU 6 ranked Hoosiers, 2-7. 

ND 2 

Against Ohio State all six Irish singles seeds rolled to straight set victories, with 67th-ranked Wendy Crabtree leading the way at the number one spot, 6-3, 6-4. At second singles, freshman Sherri Vitale chugged through a 7-6 first set before rolling 6-2 in the second. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusak Holyn Lord won both her weekend matches, raising her win streak to 20 matches.
Christy Faustmann, ranked no. 89 by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association, though, came up short against the match in a row. cruised to another win at the third Midwest region's top-rated team. In doubles, the Irish faced the region's 
singles spot 6-4, 6-2, and senior Lisa top two doubles squads. Tholen breezed 6-3, 6-2. Trailing 2-4 after the singles matches, the Irish needed a sweep in doubles to At number-one, Crabtree and Tholen 
Holyn Lord increased her match pull off the match. The Hoosier doubles won their first set 6-4 against the winning streak to 19 with a 6-0, 6-1 squads, however, did not relent and the nation's 7th-ranked duo before bowing drubbing, and sophomore Laura Schwab Irish failed to win a doubles contest. · 5-7, 5-7 in the next two. 
blasted to 6-4, 6-3 win at the six spot. In singles, Crabtree fell to Deb Faustmann and Lord, seeded second, 
With the Irish leading 6-0 after singles, Adelman, the nation's 18th-ranked dropped their match in straight sets, 2­the teams canceled the afternoon's dou­player 6-7, 4-6, while Sherri Vitale was 6, 3-6. bles matches. disposed of by 34th-ranked Jody Yin. 
The Irish return home on Tuesday to 
The Observer/Kyle Kusak With one Big Ten opponent under their The only Irish singles winners were face Purdue, their last regular-season Christy Faustmann was one of many Irish
belt, the Irish traveled to Indiana Sunday sixth-seeded Laura Schwab, and fifth­match of the season. players who found success againt Ohiohoping to add another. The Irish, seeded Holyn Lord who won her 20th State, but fell victim to a talented Indiana 

MovE UP To 
Maple Lane Apartments 
We offer: 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments ( 4 apartments per building) 

• 
Locked entry with intercom system 

• 
Full-size washer and dryer for each apartment 

• 
Pool and clubhouse facilities 

•6 
minutes from campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 


lmlfill]l~ iliD !Ilhil~ &©! ~@lf $~ij @~~ 7@1ID.lf ~illf~l!: l]]l@l]l\{]hj)~ lf®l]ll!:~ FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 
277--3731 
Located at Cleveland and Bendix 





Mandatory Meeting 
Tonight in Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune for all those interested in being 
a member of the Junior Class Council 
BSU 
continued from page 16 
English and Jim Bove 8-3. 
Chris Wojtalik has teamed with junior Allan Lopez as of late, but it looks as if the Irish have developed another suitable combination at three-doubles. 
Solidifying the last doubles team and perfecting the two others will be the major test for the Irish over the next month as they train for the NCAAs on May 14. 
Due to the late arrival time the team was unavailable for comment. 
-
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 5:00, 
7:30 THE SANDLOT (PG) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 POINT OF No RETURN (R) 10:00 
INDECENT PROPOSAL (R) 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 

Kamm's Island Inn 
..
on the river 

Suites overlooking the river 
$75 per night­2 night minimum for graduation weekend 
Call 1-800-955-KAMM for reservations or information 

,....r----------------·-----·-~-~~--~------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, April 19, 1993 
1 
I 
I 
r 
I 
I 
.... 
.. 
NO TRACK 

Irish go the distance but still fall 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's track team's prowess in the distance events could not carry them to victory Saturday, as Ball State edged the Irish 71.5 to 66. Hillsdale took third in the tri-meet with 27.5 points. 
The Cardinals took advantage of Notre Dame's weakness in the sprints and field events, developing a lead insurmount­able by the Irish. 
"We really wanted to win, but we knew they were a strong sprinting team," said sopho­more Emily Husted, a bright spot for the Irish with victories in the 800 and 1500 meter runs. 
Karen Harris and Hache) Ka­vanaugh dominated the shot put, placing first and second, respectively. Aside from that, the only other Irish victory in the field events was Tricia Joseph in the triple jump. Ball State's Cathy Rettig defeated Notre Dame's Susan Maher in the high jump, while Cardinal Christy Hichmond won the javelin throw. Hillsdale was represented by Chris Mudget, who took first place in the dis­cus. 
Freshman Erica Peterson led the Irish in the sprints, but Ball State's depth proved to be a great advantage, placing two runners in the top three in nearly every race. Peterson won the 400 meters, the 400 meter hurdles, and, along with fellow freshman Amy Siegel, led Notre Dame's 4x400 meter relay team to a come-from-be­hind victory over a fast Ball State team. The freshman also finished second in the 100 me­ter hurdles behind Ball State's 

Darjul Claiborne. Cardinal The Observer/Brian McDonough runner Jada Prothro led Ball Sophomores Stefanie Jensen and Kristi Kramer finshed one-two in the State in key events, winning the 
3,000.
100 meter dash and the long 

run by Husted, Sarah Riley, and behind Husted. 
jump. 

Kala Boulware, and in the 3000 The Irish will be in actionNotre Dame's domination of meter run by Stefanie Jensen, again next weekend, as theythe distance events was high­Kristi Kramer, and Kristen will travel to Des Moines, lA, tolighted by sweeps of the top Dudas. Boulware also took participate in the Drake Relays. 
three places in the 1500 meter 

second in the 800 meter run 

Go against Smelly Drew... 
;Keep on Smokin'l 
Love, The Rest of the 8-Ball Posse 



ND PRE-LAW SOCIETY Spring Meeting Tuesday~ April20 Cushing Hall 7 p.In. 
All members are encoura!{ed to attend. Es ecially important.for Seniors to be. 
Few bright spots for men's track in loss 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

As a whole the Notre Dame track men's track team had a less than sterling performance this weekend. The Irish fell to Ball State by a score of 106 to 72. 
"In spots we were okay but there were a few events that really let us down," said Irish head track coach Joe Piane. 
"We didn't score as many points· as we're capable of," said field events coach Scott Winsor. 
However, there were some bright spots for the Irish. La­maar Justice, point guard on the Notre Dame he basketball team, competed in his first track meet of the year and won the triple jump with a leap of 48' 6 3/4". John Cowan put on a valiant performance in the 1500 meters sprinting from last to first place in the final lap to win the race with a time of 3:57.6. Cowan followed this up by winning his heat of the 800 meters with a· time of 1:57.56. 
In the field events, the per­formances of note included Dan Grenough who cleared the 16 foot plateau in the pole vault. This marks a new personal record for the sophomore from Jeffersonville, Indiana. This mark now means that in one year's time he has toppled his personal record by two feet. Throughout all of last year, Grenough's best mark in both indoor and outdoor competition was 14 feet. 
Another bright and equally suprising performance came from team co-captain Todd )~Jerman. The junior high jumper, who qualified for the national championships in that event, threw the javelin for the first time in his collegiate ca­reer and placed third in the meet with a throw of 136.10. Sometime last week IIerman was playing around with the javelin after practice and coach Winsor recognized his potential in the event. 
"«f<'"''"f''~"-'i""! 
-......i....... 
The Observer/Brian McDonough Basketball player Lamarr Justice was victorious in his first ever track event. 


Subs • Salads • Pizza 

Ro~~~Y.B~~cials For April 
(Buy one 6" Sub, Get 2nd One Free)· Tues-Double Punch Day Wed-Any 6" cold sub and med. drink 
Only $299 Thurs-$100 off any Combo Meal (6" Bigger Bite Sub, Med. Drink, Chips) Fri-Free Bag of Chips with purchase of 
6" sub and med. drink Sat-$1QQ off on any foot, long sub Sun-Double Meal Deal -Two Foot,long 
Subs, Two Med. Drinks, Two Bags of Chips-Only $899 

Located at Ironwood Plaza North 
S.R. 23 & Ironwood (near Martin's) (219) 273, 2234 
Fax: (219) 273, 2445 



SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
Doe;, II KNOW ll1AT ITS SOUL HAS BEfN SUc.K6D 
EPISoDE, WE SAW 
WHAf HAS DRI\IEN 11-ll) 
G.VS'S BOLLfT-RIDDEN BODY C.A RTlJON Col'-PSE. fROM 
moM mE AFrEIZUFG e
RISE FRo ni£ TIJfl'lB. Tl-1£ GRAV£? 
TRAPPED IN A l<DBoTBOOY? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
H::::..j..:.:+;:+=-1 22 Long-run 1965 of a falcon 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

play 45 Bikini part 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

24 Building wing 48 Split up 
•



This SUB Recruitment Party 
Tuesday, 2-4 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall 
Come for entertainment and prizes and find out how to get involved in SUB! 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

DOES II H A \It-f\ N \ N 5A 111\BLE: APP61liE FOR tiUMAN FL~SH ') 
BILL WAITERSON 

I  F\G\JRE T\41\T  If l"D KNOWN 1-\~R. LO~G't.R,  
M\GI-\1 G\IJE '{OJ  l  CO\.lLO'I/E Gll/t.N 1-\t.R.  
ENCAJG\.\ T\\J\( TO  MoRt. ~'lOT\~ .  
1=\t{\) SOM't::BOI)'{  
W\-10 WILL.  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
S\15\E., 1 T\HNK ITS ONL'{ FAIR ID \Hl. '{OJ 1\-IA.T T\-\t.Rt: \S PIBSOLUTEL'I 
Na WA'l l W.CJJLD ~'iEt-1 CONSIPE~ 
ASKING '{oo TO \1\£ SHI\OR PRO\J\. 
1993 wanerson Doslubuted by Un1versal Press Synd•care 
!14 Used a loom 57 Predicate, or 
part of it 59 Did a lawn job &3 Pioneer's 
purchase 84Broom-, comics witch &5 Marsh 
depression &&Set &7Viper 68 Eaglet's home 19 Finis 70 Intended 71 Tire part 
DOWN 
1 Parisian oasis 2Jai­3 Contemporary 

dull one 4 Bromfield novel, 1=-+--+-­
with "The"  
5 Hi-fi part  
&Agile  
7 Musical based on a Burnett  2& Grill or grid 27 Seize  so Draws a bead on 52 Scott  58 The Simpson brat  
book  28 Marketplace  Fitzgerald's wife  60 Word with hard  
a wandered  29Charge  S4 Piecework  or soft  
9 Habituated  30 Cyclotron items  payment  &1 Essayist Lamb  
10 "The Gold Bug"  32 Where L.A. is  5!1 G. Atherton's  12Act  
author  33 Start of a  "Black-"  64 Licensed  
11 Taunt  Dickens title  58 S. African  amateur radio  
12 Exhort  34 Snug places  grassland  operator  
13 Pledge or  37 Needle case  
challenge  40 Close the eyes  Get answers to any three clues  

week tn SUB. CD Release Party 
Be one of the first to buy ND's best bands on CD for only $8 ! Hear them live in the Huddle



Thu-t. 

Today 

Monday, April 19, 1993 page 15 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
-
.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Sudden, sharp pains 1 Plunder 11 Demijohn's cousin 14 Warning 15 Sound: Comb. form 1& An objective of NOW 11 Street show 18 Musical having skits 19ltem for candling 
20 Fall drink 21 North Sea feeder 
22 Canadian Indian 
23 Tipper Gore, -Aitcheson 
25 Plant swelling 27-acid (an antiseptic) 
31 Peninsula of India 35 Water, to Juan 36 Knowledge 38 Union unit 39 Theater awards 41 Seine 42 Sways with leis 43 Pack!ng case 44 Ticket part 46 Delta substance 47 Strong dislike 49 Okapis' cousins 51 Miss Doolittle !13 Feel sick 

... ­
"OK, OK! Calm down, everyone! ... This monster­would you say he was bigger or smaller than your building? ... You can talk it over." 

Traveler 
AnTostal concert Saturday at 8:00 Stepan Tickets $5 at LaFortune Info Desk 

Blues 
~-~­



Sports 

page 16 Monday, April19, 1993 
Ohio Wesleyan bombs Notre Dame lacrosse 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE goals in the second quarter's 
-
Sports Writer last two minutes, ending the half with the score 7-3. The Notre Dame lacrosse The Irish offense had nu­
team finished their home sea­merous scoring opportunities in son on a disappointing note, as the opening half, but were the 16th-ranked Irish were sur­unable to capitalize on them prised by the Ohio Wesleyan due to some outstanding saves 
Battling Bombers 13-8 at Moose by Ohio Wesleyan's goalie Dave Krause Stadium -Breslin. The tremendous de­on Saturday. 1 fensive effort by the Battling
Even though it 1 : Bombers only fueled the inten­was an unex-sity that their entire team was 
pected loss, the Irish did not exhibiting.drop in the latest United States In contrast, the Irish looked Intercollegiate Lacrosse Asso­nat and back on their heels. ciation's coaches' poll, retaining The entire team appeared out their position at #16. of sync and waiting for some­
-·· 
Ohio Wesleyan came out fired thing to happen to spark it back up and shocked the Irish early, to life. with attacker Andy Greaves "We did not play well. We scoring the game's first goal, didn't execute and were men­his first of four, just 32 seconds tally and emotionally unpre­
into the eontest. The Battling pared for what we needed to Bombers added another goal do. All-around it was a lacklus­seven minutes later. ter effort," noted Irish coach 
The first offense for the Irish Kevin Corrigan. was generated on a unique play Junior midfielder Willie Sut­coming from their defensive ton, who led the Irish with line. With six minutes remain­three goals, cut the Ohio Wes­ing in the first quarter, junior leyan to three at 7-4 after a 
Pete Senger took a pass from nice unassisted goal on a man­fellow defenseman, sophomore up situation. The rest of the Mike Iorio. and netted the third quarter, however, the Irish 
Irish's first goal. 

were unable to do any better 
Ohio Wesleyan countered than trade goals with the Bat­with a goal three minutes later, tling Bombers, and after three and finished the first quarter quarters the score was 9-6 in with a 3-1 lead. Notre Dame favor of Ohio Wesleyan. was able to cut the lead to one, The Irish only needed to put3-2, after a solo effort by junior on a big rush in the fourth attacker Hobbie Snyder, but quarter to overcome a very
Ohio Wesleyan responded with poor effort and steal a victory.three unanswered goals to But Ohio Wesleyan squelchedmake it 6-2. The teams traded 
see LAX/page 12 
Murphy nets 300th over weekend 
Men's tennis ends regular 
Observer Staff Report 
season on high note 
Notre Dame head coach Pat Murphy won his 300th game this weekend as the Irish baseball 
ByJONATHENJENSEN Schmidt defeated Italy's Davide team defeated the Duquesne Dukes in both ends 
Associate Sports Editor Barbon 6-4, 6-2. of Midwestern Collegiate Conference doubleheader Sunday afternoon at Pie Traynor 
The eighth-ranked men's Senior Bon Hosas, junior Field. 
tennis team capped off their Todd Wilson, and freshman Murphy is now 300-147-3 (.670) in his nine 
regular season schedule with a Mike Sprouse rounded out the years as a head coach and at 
resounding 7-0 win over one of singles matches with equally 245-92-1 (.726) is just 55 ND 5 11 
the Midwest's toughest teams, convineing vietories. games from the 300 mark in 
Ball State, Sunday in Muncie,
UD 1 0

his sixth year at the helm of 
In. Another bright spot for the the Irish program, already an average of more 
The victory wraps up a per-Irish was the play of the three than 40 wins a season. He is now 115-28 (.804) 
fect 10-0-doubles teams. in regular season MCC play. 
regional record The Irish (19-8 overall; 13-1 in the MCC) 
this season, : f After overcoming injuries topped the Dukes 5-1 in the first game and 11-0 
which ensures and inconsistent play earlier in in five innings in the nightcap in a game that was 
the Irish a place in the NCAA the year, the Irish double called because of the mercy rule. Notre Dame has 
Championships in May. tandems may be playing their won nine in a row and is 16-2 in its last 18 
best tennis at the most oppor­games. 
It also provides a fitting end tune time. Eric Danapilis paced the Irish with four hits on 
to the regular season careers the afternoon, including two towering home runs 
of arguably the greatest senior The eighth-ranked team of in the second game. Danapilis cleared the center 
class in Notre Dame men's Forsyth and Coleman topped field fence on both home runs, as the fence at Pie 
tennis history, as all five mem­Josselyn and Amos 8-4, and Traynor Field was 435-feet to center, 378-feet, 
bers carved out convincing Schmidt and Wilson beat Bar­and 440-feet to right field. 

straight set singles and bon and Pierre Dommestrup 8­Danapilis, entering play this week as the fifth-
doubles wins. 3 to capture the doubles point best hitter in the country, raised his season 
in the first two matches. average to .495 (48-97) while maintaining a nine­

In the day's featured match, game hitting streak and leading the team in RBls 15th-ranked Will Forsyth dis­At the three-doubles slot, 
(42) and home runs (9). 
posed of 19th-ranked Curt Jos­where the Irish have yet to de­The pitching was also a strength this weekend 
selyn, 6-3, 6-3. cide on their top combination,
• 
with Chris Michalak (6-2, 4.30) taking the first 
senior Chris Wojtalik teamed 
{11.!/:,..i 

The Irish continued their sin­with freshman Jason Pun to eight strikeouts including one in the fourth to end win in a seven inning complete game effort with 
gles dominance, as Chuck outduel freshmen Denny
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
Coleman beat a dangerous 
see BSU/page 13

Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy notched his 300th see IRISH/page 12 
John Amos 6-4, 6-3, and Mark 
career win on Sunday. 







SAINT MARY•s 
TENNIS

TRACK 

Belles softball prepares 
Wendy Crabtree and the 
Emily Husted was a bright 
for a grueling week. 
s

Irish women's team split
spot in Notre Dame's 
see page 11
over the weekend. 

track loss to Ball State. 
see page 13 
see page 14 






