The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 109 THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

GSU candidates compare similarities and differences 
By JASON WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
Graduate Student Union (GSU) presidential candidates gathered last night to debate is­sues relative to the general elections which are taking place today. 
Rita Francis and Ed Wingen­bach spoke to only a handful of students who attended the fo­rum last night in Nieuwland Science Hall. Both candidates touched on similar issues and both admitted their differences were slight. 
Wingenbach called for more communicative representation among graduate students, in­sisted on the improvement of committee structure within the GSU and advocated the protec­tion and promotion of graduate student issues. Francis grouped her concerns under four major areas: travel grants, committee issues, communications and social space. 
"We need to find a way of dispensing as much money as possible through our travel grant process," Francis said. "We need to show the Univer­sity that we are going to put all of this money to good use." 
Her social space concerns in­
clude enlarging the physical 
space of GSU office facilities 
and upgrading or expanding 
Wilson Commons for student 
purposes. 
Wingenbach stressed the im-

Six killed as train hits gas tanker 

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -A gasoline tanker trapped in traffic at a railroad crossing was struck by an Am­trak train Wednesday and ex­ploded in a giant fireball that set nine other cars and trucks ablaze. The tanker driver and five others died in their vehi­cles. 
Fifteen people waiting at the crossing were injured, and six of the 118 aboard the train were taken to a hospital for observation, officials said. 
Witnesses described panic as people stuck in traffic scram­bled for their lives after the blast. 
"I just saw some people screaming all over the place," said Billy Rodriguez, 25, of Co­ral Springs. 
A Broward County sheriff's deputy in his patrol car at the time pulled the driver out of a burning vehicle behind him, said Sonya Friedman, a Fort Lauderdale police spokeswoman. "He tried to rescue another, but couldn't because of the fireball," she said. 
The blast left cars and small trucks scorched and scattered as if they had been in a tank battle. The gasoline truck burned for more than two hours after the midafternoon crash at a crossing near Inter­state 95. 
"The explosion was unbe­lievable," said witness Tim Dahms. "The sky was just black." 
portance of improving graduate student representation through expanded, active involvement. 
"I think there needs to be a more vocal promotion of grad­uate student issues," he said. "There's a lot of graduate stu­dents who do not know what our concerns are. Through im­proved communication students can discover these concerns." 
Both candidates brought up the issue of establishing a Women's Resource Center on campus. Francis said she had been involved in establishing a Women's Resource Center on another campus. Wingenbach said he has been involved and concerned with establishing a center ever since it was first brought to the GSU's attention. 
Francis' committee issue concerns include improved health insurance, child care and the re-establishment of the Intellectual Life Committee. Wigenbach said his concerns lies in the structure of the cur­rent committee system with more regular, posted committee meetings. 
Francis said the major differ­ence between her and Wigen­bach is their approach to the is­sues. 
"We have two very different styles of doing things simply because we are different indi­viduals," she said. "I have found through my experience in other graduate student activ­
see GSU I page 4 


Professor, 
student 
honored 
Special to the Observer 
Two members of the Saint Mary's community were honored Tuesday at the 14th annual Tribute to Women for their achievements and contri­butions to the community. 
Nancy Menk, associate pro­fessor of music and director of choral activities at Saint Mary's, was selected as the Woman of the Year and the co­honoree for the Arts. 
Saint Mary's Senior Michele Budd was among the area col­lege honorees at the Tribute. 
The Tribute is sponsored by the YWCA of St. Joseph County. The honorees were selected from among 82 nominees in five categories. 
Menk is the founder and mu­sical director of the South Bend Chamber Singers. She is the founder and coordinator of the annual Saint Mary's College High School Women's Choir Festival. 
She was selected for the Na­tional Conductor's Symposium in VancouveJ;, British Columbia in 1991. 
The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 

An Irish blessing 
She was also recently the re­cipient of the Saint Mary's Col­
Father Willie Purcell from Kilkenny, Ireland, presides over a mass 
lege Faculty Research grant to
yesterday celebrating the Feast of St. Patrick's Day in the Basilica of 
attend the World Symposium
the Sacred Heart. see HONORS I page 4 
The cars of the train -the Silver Star from New York City -remained upright. The fire­blackened lead locomotive stopped several hundred yards down the track. 
Another witness, Barbara Freeman, said the tanker was trapped in bumper-to-bumper traffic when the warning lights came on and the gate lowered. 
"He couldn't back up; and he couldn't go forward. Then, the crossing gate did come down, but it came down on the cab of his truck." 
The truck driver desperately inched forward until the crossing gate broke, Freeman said. Then the train hit the back of the tanker. 
The train had been starting to brake and was going about 30 to 35 mph, said Fort Laud­erdale police spokeswoman Sonya Friedman. 
Killed were the tanker driver, three people in a van and two in a car, said Broward County sheriff's spokesman Ott Cefkin. He said most of the 15 injured in their vehicles suffered smoke inhalation. 
The train carried 108 pas­sengers and 10 crew members; six passengers were taken to a hospital for observation, Amtrak spokeswoman Pat Kelly said. 
The Amerada Hess Corp. tanker was carrying about 8,500 gallons of gasoline ­near its capacity -when it was struck, said Carl Tursi, a spokesman for the company. 


Series examines ethnicity 
By LAURA FERGUSON News Writer 
Since everyone is ethnic, eth­nicity does not solely pertain to minorities, according to Tina Buchanan, a Saint Mary's se­nior and one of the organizers of a week long lecture series fo­cusing on "identity." 
The third event in the series of "Inner Exploration" was an ethnic identity group discussion held last night in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
Several students, faculty, and administrators participated in the open and informal dis­cussion sponsored by Minority International and Non-tradi­tional Students (MINT) and SMC Really Groovy Women. 
"The main question of this week is 'do you know who you are?' By organizing this week of events we hope to help peo­ple to search for the answer in themselves and tonight I feel that we were successful in do­ing this," said Buchanan. 
This informal discussion surfaced several viewpoints. 
"Many Americans experience ethnicity as a void, but if it comes to a question of national­ity then we all have ethnicity. This void is a very common· American experience," added Julie Storme, assistant profes­sor of modern languages. 
"We must all hold onto our ethnicity," said Frances Shavers, a representative from the NO Alumni Association. "If we increase the ethnic back­ground of everyone, then that might bring us all together." 
"It is like the analogy of the world as a salad. If we improve each individual vegetable the whole salad will taste better. However we tend to become too self absorbed in our own eth­nicity to do this," added Shavers. 
In general, the message from the group was that people need to promote tolerance and re­spect others regardless of their ethnicity. 
This discussion series on identity was organized by a group of four Saint Mary's se­niors known as SMC Really Groovy Women. The members of this organization are Tina Buchanan, Sarah Fisko, Delia Garcia, and Renee Young. Although not an official club, the group is responsible for this lecture series, a multi-cultural week in the spring of 1992, and a previous celebration which recognized Christopher Columbus. 
The next event in this series will focus on sexual identity. It will take place tonight at 6 p.m. in the Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's. 
.. 

Vote today 

Elections for Sophomore, Junior and Senior Class offi­cers at Saint Mary's are today. On Campus students can v~te at the dining hall during all meal hours . Off campus students can vote in the off­campus student lounge from 1 
p.m. to 3 p.m. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Mastering the art: getting past the guards 
You and your roommate------­'ust ran some errands off Kelly 0' Neill 
campus,  and you refuse to  Assitant Office  
park in D2000 and walk  
back to the dorm.  Instead,  Manager  
you pull up to the security  

guard, look him/her in the eye, and lie through your teeth. 
I would consider myself to be a very honest person, except when it comes to making up reasons for getting my automobile on campus. I'll admit it, when trying to get past the security guard, I'm a compulsive liar. 
Although I often tend to use the more standard reasons such as loading luggage or unloading groceries, I have discovered some other excuses which are much more exciting and effective. 
Injuries always work. My roommate once stuffed kleenex in her sock and faked a sprained ankle; she was waved onto campus without question. I have also discovered that leaving crutches in the car or claiming to take a friend to physical therapy always gets sympathy from the guards. 
Creativity may also get you past the security guards. I was once with a friend who had to pick up a refrigerator in Farley (it was a Tuesday night in November). One of the best lies I ever heard, however, came from a girl claiming she had to pick up three sheet cakes in the dining hall for her dorm's SYR. Even though it was a Thursday night, the guard let her on campus, probably because he was so impressed with her excuse. 
When pulling up to the security booth, it is never easy trying to figure out how sympathetic the guards will be to your excuse. Some will Jet anybody on, others hand out passes, and a few probably won't even let Monk on campus. 
It is much easier getting waved on when it is cold or raining outside (which is pretty often in South Bend). It seems that many of the guards would rather sit in their booth than check to make sure you really do have groceries. 
I never have been able to figure out the system for handing out passes; sometimes thi guards give them, sometimes they don't. Also, the passes are always for a different amount o time. 
And if the pass expires while you are still on campus, is it better to take it off, or leave it on your car even though it is invalid? 
Some of the guards may refuse to let you on campus regardless of your excuse. I once needed to drop off some people in a snowstorm after a formal. The guard asked me why I (the girl) was driving; I explained that it was my car. He then questioned me for about five minutes before taking my license and Jetting me drop everyone off. I guess he gave up Jetting autos on campus for Lent. 
Notre Dame just wouldn't be Notre Dame without the thrill of getting past the se.curity guards. The next time you want your car on campus, don't be afraid to try a really farfetched excuse. It is much more exciting telling them you're Monk's main squeeze than claiming you have luggage to load. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
SportsNews 
Jonathan Jensen Brian Kubicki 
Bevin Kovalik 
John Lucas 
ViewpointProduction 
Lynn Bauwens
Susan Marx Kristin Ruethling Lab Tech Accent 
Macy Heuckel Lynn Bauwens 
Graphics
Mara Divis 
Ann-Marie Conrado
Steve Tankovich 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 

't 't •• 't • 't 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Thursday, March 18, 1993 
FORECAST 
·• Mostly sunny and . : ) cold Thursday with . \ ?highs in the lower 
.:. 30s. Cloudy and cold ( i Friday with a 70 
· percent chance of snow and high in the mid 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 

•• .•  City  H  L  
::  Anchorage  30  23  
••• Atlanta: < Bogota  54 72  42 4t  
:•.  •••  Cairo  64  46  
:•  }  Chicago  44  15  
Cleveland  43  30  
·•  < Dallas  74  45  
Detroit  40  26  
Indianapolis  43  31  
Jerusalem  52  41  
London  61  48  
Los Angeles  75  62  
Madrid  70  45  
44  26  
46  39  
49  44  
45  39  
Paris  59  52  
Philadelphia  45  40  
© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. }  .  Rome  59  36  


Seatlle  53  41  
South Bend  44  23  
Tokyo  52  36  
Washington, D.C.  46  39  




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

E~erts say corpse was not Hitler's 
•P RIS -French forensic experts say the charred corpse said to be Hitler's was not his body, and that experts falsified verification reports ordered by Josef Stalin to appease the Soviet dictator. In a report published in the professional review Hospital Weekly, four forensic scientists concluded that the body actually was that of an 
' unknown German male. The article, published on March 11 and excerpted in France's national press this week, does not claim that Hitler survived and fled Germany, but rather that his body was shown to a German soldier. The body was later apparently transported to the Soviet Union. According to the Soviet autopsy, the body found outside the Berlin bunker where Hitler committed suicide with his wife, Eva Braun, had an extra tooth and only one testicle. The French team believes doctors were under pressure from Stalin to fake the autopsy, because he wanted to show the world Hitler was really dead. 
Oil discovered in Latin America 
•CARACAS, Venezuela -Major discoveries of oil and gas are likely in Brazil, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela, according to a study by Amoco Corp. "There is reason to be optimistic about the future in Latin America," oil compa:1y manager George Kronman said Tuesday in a speech to the Venezuelan-American Petroleum Geology Congress. He said Amoco predicts discoveries of at least 500 million barrels in six basins: the Campos in Brazil, the Llanos in Colombia, the Reforma-Campeche and the Tampico-Misantla in Mexico, and the Maracaibo and the Maturin in Venezuela. Latin America has the largest amount of proven crude reserves outside the Middle East, according to 1991 data, Kronman said. 

OF INTEREST 

•Eating For Your Active Lifestyle, a free public presentation by Nancy Clark, Nutrition Consultant for the Boston Celtics, will take place Saturday at 1:00 p.m. at the Battell Community Center, 904 N. Main St., Mishawaka. A reception will follow the presentation. For information, call 259-3740. Sponsored by Northern Indiana Dietetic Association and Battell Community Center. 
MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 17 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 237,867,450 -1.48 to 247.33 S&P COMPOSITE 

-3.06 to 448.31 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-16.21 to 3426.7 4 
UNCHANGED 598 

GOLD 
+ $.10to $329.70 oz. 
SILVER 
+ $0.025 to $3.623 oz. 

NATIONAL Helen Haves dies at age 92 
•NYACK, N.Y. -Helen Hayes, who won the highest honors of stage, screen and television and was dubbed "First Lady of the American Theater," died Wednesday. She was 92. Hayes was brought to Nyack Hospital, in this New York suburb where she made her home, early last week suffering from congestive heart failure. The hospital would not release further information at the request of Hayes' son, actor James MacArthur. She received three Tonys and an Emmy as well as two Oscars, and in 1981 was awarded the Kennedy Center Honors for lifetime achievement. Miss Hayes left the theater in 1971. after 66 years, because of allergies to dust that aggravated chronic bronchitis. But she always said the theater was still her first love. 

Man accused of shooting doctor 
•PENSACOLA, 
Fla. -A chemical plant worker faces a first-degree murder charge in last week's fatal shooting of a doctor at an abortion clinic. A grand jury indicted Michael Griffin, 31, of Pensacola on Tuesday. lie is to be arraigned Thursday. Griffin is accused of shooting Dr. David Gunn in the back three times a week ago as he arrived at the Pensacola Women's Health Services clinic during an anti-abortion demonstration. Police say Griffin admitted the slaying. State Attorney Curtis Golden has said prosecutors would seek the death penalty, standard policy in cases of premeditated murder. Griffin was held without bond. At his first court appearance last week, he had asked permission to represent himself. Gunn, 4 7, of Eufaula, Ala., was the only physician working at Pen­sacola's only two abortion clinics. 

•sophomores 
who are interested in making and eating dinner at Dismas House as part of a sophomore service project tonight meet at the Main Circle at 5 p.m. The dinner will last until 8 p.m .. 

•The 
Spanish Club will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the ISO Lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune Student Center. For more information call Alex at 634-4478. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1913: Greek King George I was killed by an assassin. 

• 
In 1931: New York City Mayor James "Jimmy" was charged with inefficiency, neglect and incompetency. (President Franklin Roosevelt later dismissed the charges.) 

• 
In 1953: An earthquake in Turkey killed 1,000 and left 50,000 homeless. 

• 
In 1962: French and Algerian officials signed a truce ending their war. 

• 
In 1979: In the largest bust in U.S. history, 20 tons of hashish was seized. 

• 
In 1987: A Gerber survey found that the most popular names for newborns are Jessica and Matthew. 


page 3 

Thursday, March 18, 1993 The Observer 



Navy guarantees ROTC jobs 
By JOHN LUCAS for graduating Midshipmen, ships, which would be able to Assistant News Editor Wilmot explained that there are quickly respond to regional still many opportunities left in conflicts around the globe. 
I.I I 
The Observer/ John Bingham 

Rear Admiral Louise Wilmot addresses a meeting yesterday for the Naval ROTC Midshipman's Battalion. 
Although working toward modernization and downsizing, the U.S. Navy will continue to guarantee jobs for graduating ROTC students, according to Rear Admiral Louise Wilmot. 
"The sweeping changes pre­sent challenges to me and to you, but I ask you to embrace the changes, know what they are, and make them your own," she said yesterday afternoon, addressing a meeting of the Naval ROTC's Midshipman's Battalion. 
Through all the current reor­ganization, the Navy will con­tinue to promise positions for all graduating ROTC Midship­men. 
"We can guarantee that there will be a job for each of our graduates," she said. 
In addition to promising jobs to be explored in the Navy, particularly for women and minorities. 
SENIORS ' • Last chance to buy Senior Formal Tickets! Thursday, March 18 6--9 p.m. Room I 08 LaFortune  

HEY SOPHOMOI<ES! GEf INVOLVED WffH YOUr< JPW APPLICA110NS fO~ fHE EXECU11VE COMMfffEE AVAILABLE Af fHE LAfO~ruNEINfOOESK DUE MONDAY MA~CH 22  

"I want everyone to under­stand that the Navy is still a vi­able career," she said. 
Behind the current changes, which involve base closings and the shrinking of the 600 ship fleet of four years ago, Wilmot cited a recent joint report by the Navy and the Marine Corps, entitled "From The Sea." The report detailed proposed changes and compelled the Navy to begin to modernize its forces and refocus its mission. 
"We simply had to adapt our naval forces to the 21st cen­tury," she said 
The new mission of the Navy, according to Wilmot, is the establishment of a smaller force, ranging from 319 to 344 
Don't spend an hour in the shower! 
Wilmot referred to the recent deployment of troops in Somalia as an example of this new kind of navy. 
In refocusing toward smaller crises, the Navy's focus would no longer be geared toward the "domination of the open sea," but rather place an "emphasis on mobility," she said. 
The proposed changes and reorganization will not be with­out some difficulty for those lo­cated at the 31 bases to be closed and the 134 to be recon­figured, Wilmot said. 
"If ships go, bases go, and if bases go, people go," she said, citing that nearly 200,000 civilians will be affected by the proposed closures. 
With upcoming announce­ments and the analysis of plans for daily base closings, Wilmot urged the Midshipmen to stay abreast of the current situation the Navy faces by reading newspaper articles and edito­rials. 
"It is very difficult to keep up 
with the changes," she admit­
ted. 
SLAMMER STOR;AQE Call Fo~ Rese~va+ioV\ Maste~ Mif/\i Wa~ehoV\se 683-1959 (Afte~ 5: 684-0285)  
~tl Es,o ~~min~~~~!~~.~:.st:!1)_0~ ~ 11:30a.m. ...C Breen-Phillips Chapel I Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome Celebrante Padre Don McNeill, c.s.c. Sponsored byCampus MimstryCoro Primavera ~. Nuestra Seliora (?MPUS -MINISTRY  

page 4 The ObseNer Thursday, March 18, 1993 















tenant governor for the North­west Division of Indiana Circle
continued from page 1 

Ill
ALUMNI
K. 


r--~fiiiiiiiiir==~ 

on Choral Music in Vancouver. 
Budd, a senior nursing major, She has also served as the was nominated by members of treasurer and vice president of the Saint Mary's faculty. the organization. 
After graduation in May she She is a member of the Stu­plans on working as a nurse 

!CLUB
dent Nurses Association, and with the mentally and physi­an active member of Circle K. a cally handicapped. 
Juniors! 
rarr~ ~Jill IPIhnn n n1P§ Applu todau for bartender positions!
s1Prrn Jill~ IFca1 §1mnoJill s1m ow 
March 20, 1993 
Applications can be pirned up in the Student Activities Office, 

2:00p.m. 
3rd floor LaFortune 


LaFortune Ballroom 
Deadline: f1arch 19, 199J 
Featuring stores from UP Mall. 

Bene its the American Diabetes Association. Tickets-3.00 at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
SYRACUSE ABROAD 
AFRICA • AUSTRALIA • CZECH REPUBLIC • ENGLAND • FRANCE • GERMANY • HUNGARY • ITALY • POLAND • SPAIN 
• 
Prior Foreign Language Not Always Necessary 

• 
SU Credit 


• 
Field Trips/Traveling Seminars 

• 
Internships 


• 
Study For A Semester, A Year, Or A Summer 

• 
Home Or Limited Apartment Placements 


FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 (315) 443-3471 OR 1-800-235-3472 


Muslim sheik ordered deported 
NEW YORK (AP) -An ex­tremist Muslim cleric who preaches at the same mosque where two suspects in the World Trade Center bombing worship was ordered deported from the United States on Wednesday. 
The action came as a federal grand jury in Manhattan re­turned indictments against the two suspects already in custody and charged in the blast: Mo­hammed Salameh, 25, and Nidal Ayyad, also 25. 
The Feb. 26 blast, which shut down the World Trade Center for nearly three weeks, killed six people, injured more than 1,000 and did tens of millions of dollars in damage to the city economy. One of the buildings will reopen Thursday when Gov. Mario Cuomo returns to his 57th floor offices. 
The deportation order against Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman was unrelated to the blast. But Salameh and Ayyad both have worshiped at the Jersey City mosque where he has preached. 
Abdel-Rahman, 54, had come before U.S. Immigration Judge Daniel Meisner on Jan. 20 for a closed hearing requested by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to remove the sheik from the country. 
The immigration service said Abdel-Rahman did not disclose in 1991 that he is a polygamist and that he was convicted of falsifying a check in Egypt in 1987. Both are grounds for ex­clusion from the United States. 
Abdel-Rahman left Egypt for the U.S. after his acquittal in the assassination of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat. The cleric has been known to issue 
service organization. Budd is currently the lieu­

Honors 

fatwas, or death orders, against what he considers to be infidels against Islam. 
He has denied any involve­ment in the twin towers attack. 
The indictment returned Wednesday said that Salameh and Ayyad "unlawfully, willfully, knowingly and maliciously" damaged the world's second­tallest buildings "by use of an explosive device." 
Authorities allege Salameh, of Jersey City, N.J., rented the van used to transport the explosive, while Ayyad, of Maplewood, N.J., was capable of building a bomb. Ayyad is a chemical engineer. 
The suspects face life without parole if convicted. 
The single-paragraph in­dictment shed no new light on a motive for the blast or possible links between the alleged bombers and Abdel-Rahman. 
GSU 
continued from page 1 

ities that there are certain ways of going about things." 
Wigenbach said his approach to the office would be much more vocal and forward than previous officers. 
Francis is a third year student in the Chemistry Department. Her experience includes putting together a proposal on child care for graduate students, and she was part of the team that submitted the proposal to the University Board of Trustees. 
Wigenbach is a first year stu­dent in the government de­partment. Ilis involvement in the GSU includes: government department representative, faculty-student committee liai­son to the government de­partment and member of the GSU Elections, Procedures and Credentials Committee. 
Elections will be held tomor­row with the sole voting booth being in Hesburgh Library Concourse from 11 a.m. to 5 
p.m. Mail-in ballots can be turned in as late as 5 p.m. to the Graduate Student Union in LaFortune Student Center. 


7 Day Deliv.~ry-l 

Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clocktower Square (219)277--1291 0'\.~e'\. s 5!40031 North 
"'"'\.

South Bend, IN 46637 ~~~~"'\ Mention This Ad and Receive I0% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

Sponsored By: 
TOSRECORDS 

POOR BOY RECORDS 
~ ~ 

& JAM MAGAZINE 
Thursday, March 18, 1993 The Observer page 5 
NYC parade stirs controversy between gays, Catholics 
NEW YORK (AP) -It was a badly splintered St. Patrick's Day celebration. 
The mayor stayed at home. The cardinal was snug under a canopy on the cathedral steps, waving and smiling at paraders. And more than 200 gay protesters who raised a racket ended up celebrating at Man­hattan Central Booking. 
Only about 120,000 people marched Wednesday in the 
nation's oldest St. Patrick's Day parade, tens of thousands less than usual, and spectators along Fifth Avenue were rarely more than three deep. Orga­nizers blamed the poor turnout on a never-ending Irish-style drizzle. 
But what was most remark­able about the 232nd parade, even by the unpleasant stan­dards of recent years, was how 
Can you believe that they are doing it again? Attn. Future SMC Sophomores: Remember to vote for 
Whisler, Fedesna, Good 
& Regan on March 18ili! 

many Irish-for-a-day were go­ing their own way. 
More than an hour before the main parade's start, hundreds of marchers protesting the exclusion of Irish homosexuals staged a countermarch up Fifth Avenue, chanting "Hey-hey, ho­ho, homophobia has got to go!" 
When they ran into a line of police, they knelt or squatted as police cuffed them and moved them into vans and buses. 
In all, 228 were arrested, most for violating a court order, including City Councilman Thomas Duane, an acknowl­edged homosexual who was cheered as he stepped into a police wagon. Five were charged with disorderly con­duct. 
"Our tax dollars at work," laughed one protester. 
In Ireland, a gay organization entered a float in the Dublin parade with no appreciable controversy. Last year, a gay group entered a float in the Cork parade, and won a prize. 
Elsewhere, Chicago's 38th parade went ahead in freezing temperatures. 
In Boston, where last Sunday's parade was postponed a week by the blizzard, organizers were trying to block a gay group from marching for the second consecutive year. Last month, a judge ruled the homosexuals had a right to march. 
A predicted rain fail to show up for the parade in Savannah, Ga., which drew at least 200,000 spectators. The march in Albuquerque, N.M., was canceled because of unpaid bills to city police from past parades. 
In New York, a judge ruled Tuesday that the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization, which has battled for three years to be included in the main parade, could not stage a protest parade on the avenue. 
Mayor David Dinkins boy­cotted the parade; instead, he gave a breakfast at his official Gracie Mansion and told his guests that "a few small-minded individuals have soured this celebration with attitudes of intolerance and exclusion." 
Dinkins, who had tried to get 
the gay delegation into the pa­
rade, was referring to members 
of the Ancient Order of 
Hibernians, the parade's tradi­tional sponsor. 
The city had taken away the Hibernians' parade permit, but a federal judge gave it back, citing the Hibernians' right to freedom of speech, religion and association. The city then op­posed the gay group's request for a counter march, warning that it could lead to violence. 
During Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral, Cardinal John O'Connor complained that, for years, "Irish Catholics have been persecuted for the sole reason that they have refused to compromise church teaching. What others may call bigotry, Irish Catholics call principle." 
Later, when asked about Dinkins, Gov. Mario Cuomo and other officials who skipped the parade, the cardinal said, "Politicians make their own judgments. Thank God I'm not one." 
The parade itself was rela­tively somber, with no grand marshal and a color scheme in which green was rivaled by the black of countless umbrellas and the white remnant of last week's blizzard. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Riding on a Wagon Train full positions of leadership. Most have heard the arguments; yet many remain unsatisfied. On Monday night, March 22, Bishop Frank Murphy of Baltimore The first time I saw a Pope, in the flesh, it made me cry. will review this whole scene in a talk in DeBartolo High. 
I was o'fl my way to Africa, and I had passed through Rome. The tour bus took Personally, I like the image of the wagon train going to California. us all to the Pope's "summer house" outside the city, where we were gently herded into the inner courtyard of the Vicar of Christ on Earth's really-not-so­Catholics want everybody to arrive. We care about the whole group. huge extra palace. The second floor balcony window opened, and two very slick We are like travellers on some wagon train. Certain folks are needed as scouts. must-be Monsignors suddenly appeared to place our very frail Pope Paul VI in They go ahead, search out the various routes, watch for trouble, take risks. the opening. His Holiness slowly began to greet all the gathered faithful, with Likewise, in the church, some people can proclaim ideas beyond the norm. that distinctively choppy, two-handed papal wave. Down below, a Canadian They help set the course, and take risks for us all, using their experience to high school band, decked out ,in satin hot pants and white fur hats started teach. They can even disagree with authority. playing "Amazing Grace" -and I lost it. "Don't worry about me," I told the wondering crowd. "I'm just a believer." Many of my African friends found mandatory celibacy a strange requirement for 
church leadership, and an impediment to a fuller church life. Many of my There is a certain price to pay to be a Catholic. Theology and pastoral practice American friends find the requirement that you must be a man to be a priest move so very slowly. It can seem a burden to always worry about the whole equally strange and destructive. I tend to agree with both positions. crowd, the whole earth. 
I think these scouts know a good way the wagon train should move. In Africa, for awhile I lived in a huge rural district where 100 villages within In the meantime, we love the train and are not willing to settle for some 200 square miles where all organized into one "parish." Every one of the villages seductive, lush valley along the way. Our loyalty is to the whole train and its had a catechist, a typical local farmer with several months of special training, trip to the Promised Land. We want to arrive with the whole group intact. who led the community and presided at its normal prayers. This married leader taught the children to get ready for the sacraments. He, or she, presided at the And that brings me back to the Pope. John Paul II is going to be in Colorado in normal Sunday prayers. If someone died, this catechist said the consoling words mid-August, and anyone from the Notre Dame family who would like to join a at graveside. If someone was beating his wife, this catechist led the delegation lowkey pilgrimage to the World Youth Day Celebrations in Denver should 
of elders who went to intervene. contact Campus Ministry, where we are organizing such a trip. 
Once a month or so, the Parish Priest (or P.P., as he was known) arrived to The Canadians in hotpants may or may not show up, but I imagine we will all preside at the Eucharist, and to do a whole slew of baptisms, and to fix-up a still find something to cry, and laugh about. marriage or two that had already been recognized for a long time by the local 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
customs. A huge meal was prepared, and the whole village joined in a celebration for the day. 
To Communities ND Participants:
It was a nice system, but after awhile, it seemed to me a pastoral and 
Mass and dinner will be at 5:00p.m. on Friday,
catechetical shame to keep on proceeding as if Jesus was most especially present only once a month, when "the Father" -the P.P. arrived. Clearly, the local 

March 26, not March 28. We apologize for the 
catechist was doing everything that people in other parts of the world thought a 

typo on your invitations. 
priest should do to lead a community. He, or she, really was the priest of that place, and an attentive spirit, it seemed, would recognize and validate that. 

SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR
Some did. Certain African theologians called for an end to celibacy as a 
requirement for the Catholic priesthood. They asked for a recognition of the 

THIS COMING SUNDAY 
actual experience of the people. At the same time, a very loyal and Roman 
1sT READING 1 Samuel16: 1, 6--7, 10--13
trained hierarchy remained quite adamant in proclaiming the teaching of the Vatican and the requirement of universal obedience to mandatory celibacy. 
2ND READING Ephesians 5: 8--14 
Here in the United States, we have a particular history and our own situation. In our circumstance, it is difficult for many to understand why our Church can 
GosPEL John 9: 1--41 
not recognize the full gifts of women to the Church and continues to deny them 
--~-----~-------·--------~---~------­
page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 18, 1993 
Fog hinders rescue efforts for hikers lost in Smokies 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Helicopter rescue efforts in the Great Smoky Mountains were grounded Wednesday by rain and fog as rangers searched the snowy slopes on foot for as many as 45 stranded campers and hikers. 
The death toll from the weekend storm that paralyzed much of the Eastern Seaboard reached 232, and searches have been suspended for 32 crewmen from a sunken freighter otT Nova Scotia and 16 mariners lost in waters around Florida. 
An official said he hoped he­licopters would be able to re­sume flying over the mountains in and near Great Smoky Mountain National Park astride the Tennessee-North Carolina state line on Thursday morning to retrieve people stuck by record snows. 
Some hikers have waved off helicopters previously, prefer­ring to take their chances. They no longer have that option, Shelton said. 
"We'll go get 'em out whether they want to come or not," Shelton said. "The park has ordered everybody out." 
Rangers on snowshoes hoped to reach shelters along the Appalachian Trail sometime Wednesday night, National Park Service spokesman Bob Miller said. "We hope to find some people there and verify their medical condition tonight," he said. 
Miller said three parties of hikers had filed itineraries at trail heads where they entered the park. A fourth group of hikers was attempting to walk the entire Appalachian Trail; they weren't required to file itineraries, he said. 
Nearly 120 students and teachers from a Detroit-area prep school became snowbound during a wilderness expedition in the same area, but all of them had walked out or were flown to safety by Tuesday. 
Elsewhere, the storm con­tributed to a shutdown of 5,000 automatic teller machines, af­fecting more than a million cardholders around the coun­try. 
The machines are owned or operated by Dallas-based Elec­tronic Data Systems Corp., and its New Jersey computer center ground to a halt Saturday after part of the building's roof and walls collapsed under the pres­sure of heavy snow and high wind, said Jon Senderling, EDS spokesman in Dallas. 
EDS is transferring its com­puter work to a backup site in Rochelle Park, N.J., but the transition will take days to complete, he said. 

OrganizationalMeeting 
Thursday,March 18, T993 7:30p.m. 
Old Oub Room in Lafortune 

CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -The body count is rising as shootouts between government security forces and Muslim extremists become more frequent, with both sides quick on the trigger. 
In the bloodiest clash so far this year, 10 extremists and one policeman were killed Wednesday, and 11 militants and 10 policemen were wounded. 
The extremist al-Gamaa al­Islamiya -the Islamic Group ­in 1981 launched its drive to install an Islamic government. Fueled by suspicions that they will receive no mercy, the ex­tremists ,have resisted gov­ernment raids. 
"They have orders to fire on police. We fire back. Sometimes one or two get killed," said Maj. Gen. Galal el-Shamy, an Interior Ministry spokesman. He said the militants would rather die fighting than be arrested. 
They believe they will die anyway if the are captured, re­sponds Hisham Mubarak of the 
Alternative Lifestyles 
Meeting others like yourself isn't always easy. How can you lead a loving and fulfilled life without making a public statement? We offer a confidential network through which you can get to know others like yourself without leaving the privacy of your own home. Write for free information. 

AlterNet 
18115 State Rd. 23, #238 






Egyptian police, extremists clash 
Egyptian Human Rights Orga­nization. 
There are about 200,000 Muslim fundamentalists in Egypt, according to estimates by Western diplomats speaking 
on condition of anonymity, and about 10,000 of them are in­volved in militant groups. 
In 1992, 80 people were killed and more than 100 wounded in an intensified terror campaign against tourism, Egypt's largest source of foreign exchange. 
This year, 51 people have been killed. The victims include Coptic Christians and foreign tourists. 
Last week, eight extremists and a policeman died and 35 people were wounded in an at­tack on an extremist-held mosque in the southern city of Aswan. A bomb damaged six empty buses outside Cairo's Egyptian Antiquities Museum on Tuesday. 
The latest deaths occurred Wednesday in Assiut, an ex­tremist stronghold in southern Egypt. 
Police surrounded two apartment buildings, and when the extremists inside refused to surrender, stormed the build­ings. 


Want to maximize your performance on the LSAT? Learn what the teat covers and effective teat-taking strategies from the company that knowa the teat makers best. Claaaea begin Monday, March 22nd at our South Bend Center, 1717 Eaat South Bend Avenue. For more information or to enroll, 
call(219) 272-4135 

KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat question. 
~----------------,
Three's A Crowd ... 
~~==~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~o~u;th~B~e~n;d,~I~N~4~6~63~7~~: 
Buy 2 
I
1636 N. Ironwood






Buy a Domer. : 
(Just south of SR23) 

Get 1 I 
On March 181h, in the Lafortune Ballroom, HPC will offer you a chance to purchase the service ofyour favorite famous Domers. Check out who's going to be there and scrape all ofyour money together! 
7:00pm  Pompon Squad  
7:05  Glee Club  
7:10  Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill  
7:15  Frank Flynn and Nikki Wellman  
7:20  Andy Zurcher and Will Forsyth  
7:25  Fr. Hesburgh  
7:35  Joe Cassidy (From Student Activities) and a party for you and  
30 of your friends  
7:40  Fr. Poorman  
7:45  Women's Soccer Team  
7:50  Kevin Pendergast  
7:55  Male Cheerleaders and Female Cheerleaders  
8:05  Captains Tim Ruddy, Aaron Taylor, and Jeff Burris  
8:10  The rejected Irish Guard  
8:15  Women's Volleyball Team  
8:20  Bill Kirk  
8:25  Sergeant McCarthy (of 4'h quarter fame)  
8:30  Coach John Macleod  
8:35  Football signed by members of the team  
8:40  Women's Swim Team  
8:45  Jerome Bettis  
8:50  Demetrius Dubose  
8:55  Rudy  
9:00  Fr. Monk Malloy  
... and possibly others!  

There will be a $1 entrance fee, and all proceeds benefit the Meghan BeelerI Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarship Fund. Prizes will be raifled off, so don't miss it! Also, check out Bail A Domer at Lafortune on the 18h from 11 am-4pm. 

Help the poor souls injail! 

I 271.. 1433 I



Free

I Hours: I 
Buy any two pasta 
Mon-Tues 11-9:30 

I I 
entrees and get 
Wed-Sat 11-10

I I
the ·hd for Free Sunday 4-9:30 
I I
1Dine-in only. Coupon good till 4/7/93. Free dinner must be 1
.... ________________ 
1 of equal or lesser value. Not good with any other offer. .J 

:::1: 
1­


Stop by for Friday Lunch 
Great 
Lenten Specials 12-2 
must be 21 
~­



Viewpoint 
Thursday, March 18, 1993 page 7 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor......... Meredith McCullough AdvertislngManager ..... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Editor................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chiel 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Hispanics frequently ignored 
Dear Editor: 
Recently at Notre Dame, there has been a renewed discussion concerning cultural diversity. I have read many letters in The Observer and overheard discussions between individuals concerning this very important issue on campus and in society. However, every single time cultural diversity is discussed at Notre Dame, it has been an issue of black and white, the two traditional different ethnic groups in the United States. What about Hispanics? Where do we fit in this discussion? Why are we overlooked? 
By the year 2000, Hispanics will probably become the single largest minority group in the United States. With currently 25 million living in the United States, Hispanics comprise a large part of society. The His­panic population of N.D. grows every year and is the largest of any national minority group here on campus. However, though we are a large diversi­fied community comprised of peoples of different races and economic status, we are, in American society and Notre Dame, overlooked. 
There are no Hispanics in the 
U.S. Senate and in every level of government, we are far from getting the representation equal to our numbers. In Notre Dame, there are no Hispanic rectors and few in either the faculty or the administration, even though Hispanics comprise over 50 percent of American Catholics: the majority aren't Irish or Italian but Hispanic. The goal of economic empowerment is far from sight. 
For example, over 40 percent of Puerto Ricans living in Amer­ica do so in poverty. Hispanics 
DOONESBURY 
are faced with racism derived from cultural ignorance. Here at N.D., I've heard comments from acquaintances such as "Well, he doesn't look His­panic!" and the like whenever Hispanic issues are brought up. Why is it we are faced with this here at Notre Dame? 
One reason that is easily seen at N.D. is apathy within the community. Many students, administrators, and faculty simply could not care less whether or not American mi­norities are facing injustice, racism, or oppression in Amer­ica or whether or not here at 
N.D. the topic of cultural diver­sity should even be discussed. Within the Hispanic community at N.D., there is apathy. Many Hispanics do not discuss cul­tural diversity as African­Americans have and have not made the Hispanic presence known on campus. 
How can we correct this prob­lem facing Hispanics at N.D.? I think a key element that we, as Hispanics, can do is to change our approach to discussing such issues at N.D. In the past, I feel that the leadership of the Hispanic groups on campus has not made addressing issues of cultural diversity or awareness the goals of their organizations. As the new president of the Hispanic American Organiza­tion, I have made it one of our top goals to ensure that as His­panics, our concerns and needs are addressed and discussed by the administration and the stu­dent body. 
Along with the other officers in the H.A.O., I have initiated Project Vision, an innovative approach to nurturing a spirit of multiculturalism at N.D. In H.A.O., we will be working on trying to attain better financial aid for Hispanic students by so­liciting help from national His­panic organizations and profes­sional societies. 
We will be inviting numerous Hispanic scholars, academics, politicians, artists, and social workers to open the eyes of Notre Dame's non-Hispanics to what it means to be Hispanic in the U.S. today. Through cook­outs, dinners, and dances, we will provide all students with a taste of the wide array of His­panic cultures, ranging from Puerto Rico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and Mexico. 
To ensure recruitment of Hispanics to N.D., we will hopefully conclude the estab­lishment of the N.D. Hispanic Alumni Association. This will also serve as another link be­tween Notre Dame and the various Hispanic communities around the nation. We will work closely with the growing Hispanic community of South Bend. Those of us here at N.D. are fortunate while many of our brothers and sisters in this country have so little. We must be cognizant of this fact and work to ensure a brighter fu­ture for all Hispanics in Michi­ana and make our presence known here at Notre Dame. 
I ran on the platform that we, as Hispanics, have to take the initiative to make sure our needs are met at N.D. and that the campus community does not spend another year without any major event to heighten Hispanic awareness. We have to reaffirm our culture: it's our responsibility to keep our tradi­tions alive. The apathy that has plagued our organization and the Hispanic community of N.D. 

in past is e o days of simply discussing white You'll be hearing from us. and black are in the past. There is a new force at N.D. Ken Motolenich-Salas that will work hard not just for President, Hispanic American the betterment of Hispanics at Organization 
N.D. but for the community as a March 17, 1993 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"So, so, break off this last lamenting kiss, Which sucks two souls, and vapors both away." 
John Donne 

Suck your soul. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

r-----------.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

Viewpoint
·page 8 Thursday, March 18, 1993 

Roller coaster ride of 1968 was not terrible for some 

America in need of industrial policy 
I was taken by surprise, re­cently, when I was talking about 1968 with an acquaintance, and he said, "Boy, that was a terrible year!" 
Some terrible things hap­pened, certainly, and we knew they were terrible at the time, but somehow, I never thought of the second semester of my freshman year, which began with the Tet Offensive and ended with the murder of Bobby Kennedy, as a terrible time. 
Actually, it was pretty excit­ing. It was like being at the scene of an accident: Some people stand around being sen­sitively horrified but, for those who pitch in and do what needs to be done, the immediacy of the situation overwhelms its horror. Not only are you being more useful, but there is an intoxicating kick of adrenalin to be had, as well. 
Well, the spring semester 25 years ago was one long, horrific accident, and the adrenalin never stopped pumping. Tet was the two-by-four-between­the-eyes, the wake-up call that told Americans we were fight­ing an enemy that wasn't going to give up, no matter how many of their young men and our young men were killed in the struggle. 
The battle raged throughout South Vietnam, but especially in the city of Hue, where some 60 percent of the buildings were destroyed, and, most shockingly, at the US Embassy in Saigon, where the embassy staff carne under fire as enemy soldiers swarmed through the compound. Analysts agreed that 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
the communists lost the battle, but all we won was the opportunity to have another 30,000 young men killed over the next five years. 
It was terrible news. But you must understand: We were more distracted the week be­fore, when the North Dining hall served tainted beef in the middle of finals week, turning a normally tense time into a Pandemonium of violent diar­rhea and vomiting throughout the North Quad. In revenge, there was a food riot, und~r the slogan "Better Food or Bigger Johns." 
How do the two events corn­pare? Well, whether it is a no­ble sentiment or not, things that happen to other people are not as bad as things that happen to you. I wept that I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet. Then I stopped crying, but I still wanted some shoes. 
The other thing to realize is that the horrific events weren't necessarily seen at the time as they are seen today. When Martin Luther King was killed, 

Pete Peterson 
Beyond Freedom Rock 
the shocking thing was that it was Martin Luther King and not Huey Newton or Stokely Carmichael. King was loved and revered, but as an elder statesman still preaching pas­sive resistance in an age of Black Power, not as someone on the cutting edge of the revo­lution, and certainly not as a logical target for assassination. 
Like the attempted assassina­tion of John Paul II, the shock was in how pointless it seemed to be, to shoot such a nice guy. It wasn't that we felt we could not move forward without him. 
And then there was Bobby. I've heard it said that the Chicago Convention might have been riot-free if Bobby had Jived to take the nomination, but I don't recall the antiwar movement having much faith in him. Bobby was a preppie opportunist who jumped into the race once Gene McCarthy had done all the work, and he was embraced, for the most part, by those who would have protested the war if they weren't afraid it might ruin their chances of getting into law school. 
Still, the killings sent a mes­sage, because both Martin Luther King and Bobby Kennedy represented what our elders kept advising us to do: Work within the system. Genteel dissent, turning the other cheek, working for change was preferable to shouting and threatening and marching. The moment LBJ announced the bombing halt and his decision not to seek reelection, our lib­eral friends began telling us to stop demonstrating, because the president needed our sup­port to bring about peace. 
But four days after LBJ's speech, Martin Luther King was dead. Bobby Kennedy died less than eight weeks later. They both followed the rules, they both worked within the system. Working within the system began to look to a lot of young people like some bullshit. 
And I guess that, if 1968 were a terrible year, it would be for that reason: I think many of us carne out of that semester with the clear message that the system was not for us, that we were cogs in a machine that was not only out of our control, but was working against our best interests. 
But it wasn't a bad year. It was an exciting time to be at a point in our lives where we had the freedom to just jump in and get involved in all this amazing stuff. 
A couple of years ago, I inter­viewed Arlo Guthrie, and he mentioned the number of peo­ple at his concerts who were too young to remember "Alice's Restaurant" the first time around, but who know and re­quest it. What he suggested was that, 25 years from now, middle-aged people in Eastern Europe, in Hussia, in China, will sit around talking about the days when they were young, and when amazing stuff was happening in their countries. 
I'm sure he was right. And maybe some Russian will say, "Our monetary system had collapsed. There were short­ages of everything. We had vio­lent ethnic fighting everywhere. It was a terrible time." 
But another will smile, and say, "That's funny. I never thought of it as terrible." 
Pete Peterson, Class of '71, is a business writer with the Press-Republican. a daily newspaper in Plattsburgh. New York. 

the United States so that we can once again dominate world commerce. 
What can we consumers do in the meantime? We can start by supporting ·our own industries and establishments by buying and shopping American. The book The Patriotic Consumer: How to Buy American can show you how. For nearly every kind of product, it tells you which ones are American and which ones aren't so that you can make the right choice every time you shop. We need to start shopping by country of origin rather than just price tag. We need everyone's three favorite words to become "Made in USA." 
However, the trade and cur­rent account deficits are again rising and foreign lobbyists are flooding America trying to pre­vent us from recovering. Time is of the essence and the Clinton Administration needs to implement a new policy now before anymore of the triumphs of our grandfather's are mortgaged overseas, before there are more Allen towns, South Bends and Detroits. 
There is another book out 
called IBM vs. Japan which could accurately describe the global computer struggle in the 70s and 80s. I guess you've heard of IBM's recent record losses and layoffs. A lot of their present problems stern from the fact that they've had to expend so many resources trying to maintain a slim lead over the entire Japanese computer in­dustry which works hand-in­hand with the Japanese gov­ernrnent. Cray SuperComputers is having similar difliculties. All too often lone U.S. companies must take on whole foreign industries, backed up by their government. Who's destined to win? 
As for negotiating an end to our trade problems with Japan, during talks in 1987, the U.S. asked Japan for the same rights in Japan granted to the Japanese in the U.S. A leading Japanese negotiator replied, "What the United States is ask­ing for is impossible." I guess that about sums it up. 
Jeffrey O'Donnell Grace Hall March 14, 1993 

Dear Editor: 
In case you missed it while enjoying spring break, last week Secretary of Commerce Hon Brown announced the merger of General Motors, Unisys, Raytheon, Chase Man­hattan Bank, Travelers Insur­ance Company and DuPont into the American Trading Company (ATC). 
The idea is modelled on the Japanese Keiretsu system of in­terlocking companies such as the Mitsubishi, Fujitsu and Sanwa groups. These Keiretsu are vast corporate groups built around a bank and containing 10 to 20 other companies in au­tomobiles, chemicals, finance, mining, forestry, aerospace and just about every other economic field. 
Mitsubishi motors is only the seventh largest member of the Mitsubishi Keiretsu. The ad­vantages of this system are many, but there are two pri­mary ones. First, any group member can receive low-cost loans and investment capital from the banking affiliate, and second, cheap, guaranteed supplies and transportation can be had from any group member. Also, operating as a unit allows streamlining and standardizing of a wide-range of administrative and industrial facets. All of these things greatly enhance Japan's ability to compete in the global mar­ket. 
Secretary Brown said that such a drastic move was neces­sary to effectively compete with systems like Japan's and hoped to have a total of four such ATCs in place by the end of the year to counter Japan's six conglomerates. The shared re­search and development, cheaper financing and supply costs and the presentation of a unified front in the face of in­creasingly stiff, subsidized for­eign competition (which also includes Korean Keiretsu such as Hyundai and Daewoo as well as Airbus) should help America adjust to the more protectionist . global economy. 
When asked if he thought that this might provoke a trade war with one or more nations, Secretary Brown answered that the possibility had been examined, but that the expected benefits outweighed any such problems. As the expected global protests and lobbying ef­forts began to come in, Secre­tary Brown emphasized that "The United States is sending a clear message to the rest of the world that we will no longer sit back while subsidized and pro­tected competition undermines and eliminates our industries and economy." 
Unfortunately, the ATCs and Secretary Brown's speech were fictitious. The Keiretsu of Japan, of course, are not. Doesn't it make sense therefore that we should have a system that can effectively take on Japan's? Can America afford to be the only major nation with­out an industrial policy? Very similar suggestions are con­tained in the book How to Beat the Japanese at their Own Game. Honald Reagan and Ge­orge Bush refused to even consider such proposals in def­erence to Adam Smith's ghost. 
Bill Clinton has promised an industrial policy, but except for his visit to a Boeing factory in Everett, Washington, he has I 

America desperately needs an industrial policy. 
We need repeal of the archaic Sherman Anti-Trust Law so that companies can share some research and development, form groups such as ATCs and come together more freely so as to fend ofT foreign competition. 
understands and actively en­courages the centrality of do­rnestic industry in our economy. The government needs to set priorities for key technologies and provide funds, facilities and expertise to ensure the actual growth of these areas. Industrial policy succeeds as shown by the phenomenal tri­urnphs of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Indus­try, the astounding growth of Europe's Airbus and the bur­geoning economies of the Little Tigers (South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan). 
That it can work in America is evidenced by Senatech, a gov­ernrnent-sponsored consortium of several of the nation's leading semi-conductor manufacturers. Now for the first time in a decade, America is the world's number one semi-conductor maker. America can still compete which can be seen in our recent overtaking of Japan and Europe in the field of High Definition televisions with some of the world's most advanced digital technology. Our gov­ernrnent must give our busi­nesses the same advantages given foreign companies abroad 
--------~--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------~ 




Accent 
Thursday, March 18, 1993 page 9 
Pursuing women's education 
Women ,s colleges continue to offer unique learning experience 
3y JENNIFER HABRYCH 
3aint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's, as it is. doesn't 1ave a future because it does wt fit in with the developing 
rends in American higher ~ducation. Co-ed ;chools-schools with 10,000 or nore people. graduate programs znd a superior faculty are the nstitutions ofthe future ... People zre turning away from the ;mall independent college, the :ollege that is unisexual. 
-The Observer December 
~.1971 
The editorial board of The Ob­;erver declared that after the 'ailed merger with Notre Dame .hat Saint Mary's College had no 'uture, but now, 20 years later. )aint Mary's and the other 84 Nomen's colleges across the na­.ion are flourishing. 
Study after study has demon­;trated that women do not ·eceive an equal education in a :oeducational environment. In l coed classroom, men are :ailed on as much as 12 times nore often, are asked to defend .heir answers more, are less ikely to be interrupted by >rofessors and dominate class 
iiscussions. 
At women's colleges, not only 
tre women encouraged to 
>articipate in the classroom, 
;tudies have also shown that 
.hey build self-esteem. 
The women's college 
:lassroom is not an artificial 
me, but it is a very challenging 
me, according to Patrick White, 
tssociate dean of faculty. He 
;aid that this is evidenced by the 
·eaction of Notre Dame men 
Nhen they have taken classes 
.vith him at Saint Mary's. 
"They're not intimidated be­
:ause they are surrounded by 
Nomen," said White, "but 
>ecause they are surrounded by 
Nomen who are articulate, 
>Oised, confident and practiced 
tt engaging in discussion of 
ssues at a high intellectual level 
n a very challenging 
mvironment." 
Women at Saint Mary's say 
.hat they have gained self­
lsteem and confidence while in 
:ollege and they attribute this to 
>eing in the women's college 
mvironment. 
''I've gained a lot more self­
:onfidence and I've become 
tctively involved in the 
:ommunity, which I don't know 
f I would have at a coed 
;chool," said Martha Marzolf, 
>resident of the Student League 
'or Women's Colleges. 
Rachael Verdick, a Le Mans 
1all junior, said that previous to 
tttending Saint Mary's she had 
liways had more male than 
'emale friends, but being at a 
Nomen's college she has learned 
t lot about herself and other 
Nomen. 
"You can have a year of the 
Nomen, but here, every year is 
.he year of the women," said 
lerdick. 
Tanya Molitor. '92, said that 
;he believes attending Saint 
~ary's has prepared her well for 
1er first year at Notre Dame 
"aw School. 
She said that while at Saint 
~ary's she received many mixed 
nessages about what a women's 
:ollege would do for her. She heard both about science." how her experi­At a ence at Saint women's Mary's would institution, benefit her and where the how the atypical education is environment tailored to would not prepare meet a her for a world women's where men would needs, this play an active inequity does role. not occur. 
"I feel so much According more confident t 0 having been in a researchers community that at University cares and where of Michigan my ideas that in 1989, only were listened to 18 percent of and respected," doctorates in said Molitor. math and What women nine percent
cosia. "I've learned to be
experience at other single-sex in science were awarded to
assertive and confident in myself 
colleges fs very similar . women.
by being here." 
Courtney Olsen, a sophomore Statistics from the Women's
In a time in which reports are
at Hollins College in Roanoke, College Coalition in Washington,
indicating that a one-size-fits-all
Va., said that being at an all D.C. indicate that graduates of
education does not do justice to
women's college has increased women's colleges are more than 
women, Saint Mary's and other
her self-esteem as well. twice as likely as their counter­
women's colleges are providing
"It has made me more confi­parts at coeducational 
a testing ground for what does
dent, self-assured and more ag­institutions to receive doctorate
work in women's education. 
gressive in working for my goals degrees, especially in the areas
"At a women's college you can
for after college," she said. "My of math and science where men
get an education for women,"
friends from home who attend still dominate. 
said Kathy Roe, vice president of 
coed schools are not as involved A study of Saint Mary's gradu­
the Student League for Women's
and not as connected to their ates over the last six years indi­
Colleges. "Women and men are
schools." cated that within one year of
different and we need an
Shana Nicosia, a senior at graduation, 10 percent who had
education that meets a women's
Cedarcrest College in Allentown, pursued graduate work were
needs specifically, not just
Penn. and one of the studying math and 66 percent
societies."

coordinators of the League of science.
In a recently released report,
Women's Colleges in William Cash, director of Insti­
"Changing Schools that Short­
Pennsylvania, said that she was tutional Research, said that the
change Girls," by the American
not at all enthusiastic about percentage of those pursuing
Association of University
attending an all women's graduate degrees in math may
Women, the synthesis of
college. Her mother told her to be low due to the fact that many 
research concluded that "girls
try out Cedarcrest for a year, Saint Mary's math majors
do not receive equitable
and after she tried it out she was traditionally go into the
amounts of teacher attention,
sold on the idea of staying at a education field, another area in 
are less apt than boys to see
women's college. which there are relatively few
themselves reflected in the
"You are with people who are women.
materials they study, and often
just like you, who care about are not expected or encouraged Roe said that even though the things you care about," said Ni-to pursue higher-level math and women's movement provided in­


aint Mary,s day to honor womellr~ educqtion 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
With only 84 of the 228 women's colleges that existed in the 196()s remaining, students are now trying to create awareness of what they Mve known all. along,-woml;ll1's.. c?lleges provlq~ a· uruque atmosphere for women to learn. ···,·.. ·. ..•• ~"' ;: i . . ... . •· 
Saturday's celebration of 'Women's CollegeAppreciation Day is an attempno e:reate this awareness. 
Sponsored by the StudentLeague for Women's Colleges, the day will indude music, di~ussion and lectures with the goal of brlnging about pride and awareness of the· benefits of women's lnstitutions, according to Kathy Roe, league vice president and one of the coordinators of the event. 
The Student League for Women's Colleges originated last year as a group of women who were concerned with the future ofwomen's colleges, according t? Martha M~zolf,l>resident ... .·.·• 
The idea came from a conference thatM,aureen Lowery; 1991~92 stu,de11thodypresidl:)nt. attended, in which two women from Regis College in Massachusetts spoke oftb~ir efforts to begin an organization in which women's colleges could communicate with one ano~er. 
At the start of this year Marzolf said she tried to further this idea of a ntltlonal orgaruzation with lo­cal chapters at each women's college, but she realized that the idea was 11()1 feasible at this time. She said that first the chapters need to start atthe campus leveL 
"In the future I would like to see a natiC)nal conference Jn vybic:Q we t~~ a.lJout bow tp gain media support, how to· create awareness," said Marzolf. "And a}so to talk about creating il}:formational things to send out to high school students about women's colleges." · · 
"The idea initially started big, but now we are golng small.,. she said. 
The goal of Women's College Appreciation Day is to create this awate1less on the Saint Mary's campus. That will hopefully ,stem out to be a national women's college appreciation day, said Roe, SimHar efforts are belng made at other w-omen's colleges across the nation, ..·· ...... At Hollins College in Roanoke. Va. a women's. college appreciati011 day is slated for A.Pril 2. ac· 
cording to the Student League of Women's Colleges President Courtney Olsen, 
Hollins is also working ona newsletter which will establish a.link hetw~en the 84 women's colleges in the U.S. The newsletter will create awareness between the campus()$ of what other women at other women's lnstitutions aredolng. .· . .· . · 
Shana Nicosia. one of the coordinators of the League of Women's Colleges.in. Pennsylvarua from Cedarcrest College in Allentown,• Penn.• s;Ud that there they (,l,r~ in the ~~dst of·~. Women's College 
Appreciation Month. · · · .· • . .· · ·· ······. ·· · ·. , Throughout the month alumnae are speaking so that the women can see the success of a women s college liberal arts background. . 
Events at Saint Mary's for the day will include a performance by the musical group Sister Chain, an alumnae speaker, a creative release discussion in which students can discuss their personalwomen's college experience, and a lecture by De~ of.Faculty Dorothy Feigl O:PJ~.~:perfeptiop.of.a women's college for the admirustraitive·polnt ofview. . . . .;; .··· .... ·. 
All events are sponsored by the Student League for Women's Cqlleges and the Board ofGovernance. 

creased opportunities for women, they still need an education to break into the traditionally male-dominated world. 
"You can provide more oppor­tunity, but without women's edu­cation to put women in leading roles you are not better fulfilling the needs of women in this country, and how can men know the needs of women or how to fulfill them," she said. 
The need for women's colleges today is not an argument against coeducation, rather it is an argument for an alternative option in education for women. 
White said that while he believes there are many strong women and men at coeducational institutions it is easier for them to blend in if they choose to. In an envi­ronment like Saint Mary's, though, this is more difficult . 
"A women's college goes be­yond small and friendly, because we challenge students in a sup­portive environment," he said. "The issue (at a women's college) is not that you don't have to compete with men, but the issue is that you have to assume responsibility and accept the challenge." 
"Here we insist that students 
see the possibilities open for 
them. My colleagues at other 
coed institutions often only see 
the feeling, barriers and 
obstacles (to women's 
education), here we help them 
break through the feelings, 
barriers and obstacles," he 
added. 
Nicosia said that while 
women's colleges are not for 
everyone, she feels that the 
education is tailored to the 
needs of women. 
"Professors stress that women 
are very important in society," 
she said. 
The choice to attend a 
women's college was not a 
conscious one for many. Instead, 
they said they were first 
attracted by the small liberal 
arts atmosphere, but once there, 
they realized the value of a 
women's education at a women's 
college. 
"When I was looking at 
schools, I just happened to look 
at women's colleges and that is a 
consensus of most of my friends 
here," said Olsen. "I wasn't sure 
how it would be different until I 
was actually here." 
Mary Barger, a Le Mans 
senior, said that with two older 
sisters attending Saint Mary's 
she was attracted by the all 
women's aspect of the school 
along with other fringe benefits 
of Saint Mary's. 
"I didn't choose Saint Mary's 
solely because it was an all 
women's college, but that was 
an added benefit," said Barger. 
"Being here has bolstered a lot 
of feminist issues and 
strengthened my belief in them." 
In the 1960s there were 228 women's colleges in the country. Today, though, that number has dwindled to 84 colleges located in 25 states and the District of Columbia. Proponents of women's colleges say that espe­cially in light of the recent studies and statistics, women's colleges must work to promote themselves so that the number of institutions does not decrease any further. 
---~-----­


Accent
page 10 Thursday, March 18, 1993 



Shakespeare comes to Dalloway' s 
Not So Royal Shakespeare Company to present the "Taming ofthe Shrew, 
By TARA CAVALLARO 
Accent Writer 

The Royal Shakespeare Company of London will perform an authentic Shakespearean play this weekend at Saint Mary's College. 
Well, not exactly. 
The Not So Royal Shakespeare Company will present "Taming of the Shrew" Thursday, Friday, and Saturday this week. "Taming of the Shrew" will mark the third performance of the company which is sponsored by the London Program. 
Sophomore Josh Hartman and senior Kristin Sherwood are directipg the production this year. Sherwood is in her second year directing for the company. Last year she directed the company's performance of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." 
"Taming of the Shrew" was chosen as this year's play because it is a comedy, and it has a manageable cast size of thirteen. "It is also good in 
The cast of The Not So Royal Shakespeare Company rehearses for the upcoming presentation of 'Taming of the Shrew.' 
getting the audience involved because most of the audience is familiar with energetic supporting cast, Sherwood Petruchio and Kate)," stressed the play," Sherwood said. said. Sherwood. The play this year will be performed 
at Saint Mary's Dalloway's Coffee 
Many factors made it difficult for this McKenna, a sophomore, also Also, Professor Paul Rathburn assists House. This will be a change from past year's cast. The company had only six performed in the Sophomore One Act the company. Sherwood said that years when the company performed in weeks to prepare. Alscr, the company Plays and was the lead in the St. Rathburn's extensive knowledge of the spacious LaFortune Ballroom. had to deal with the interruption of Edward Hall production "Out of a the Shakespeare provides great help in rehearsal time by spring break and the Frying Pan" this year. interpreting the script. "There's "The only weakness of the per­added difficulty of weather-related nothing he can't explain," Sherwood. formance may be that because of the travel delays. Rossi, a senior, played various roles said. smaller area to perform there will be 
in the English department sponsored fewer props and no backdrops. This 
Still, all cast members were able to "Shakespeare's Greatest Hits." She also The cast walks through the aisles will leave the audience to use their return for the dress rehearsal on was the lead in the Not So Royal and makes extensive use of entrances imagination about some of the setting," Tuesday night, Sherwood said. Shakespeare Company's presentation and exits in an effort to draw the Sherwood explained. Sherwood said she and the cast feel of "A Comedy of Errors" two years audience into the play. confident of a successful outcome. ago. "Taming of the Shrew" will be 
To provide an added touch of performed at 8:10 pm on Thursday 
The play's strengths include lead "Michelle and Sean do a great job splendor, Saint Mary's costume and Friday nights and at 3:10 pm on actor Sean McKenna as Petruchio, lead leading the audience through the department has donated Elizabethan Saturday. Donations will be requested. actress Michelle Rossi as Kate, and an stages of the relationships (between attire . 








runn1n• 

SUB-sponsored Fun Run to benefit Beeler-Hipp Memorial Scholarship Fund 


By KEVIN DOLAN in the 2-mile race, and $30 to the men's Accent Writer and women's winners in the 5-mile run. 
SUB had planned "a big celebration at 
Student Union Board hopes hundreds the end," but the potentially i~clement of feet will hit the pavement Saturday as weather has forced them to adjust their they hold the "Irish Jog," a race for plans, said Zahren. charity, according to Ellen Zahren, pro­gram director for SUB. "We wanted XYZ affair to play after 
the race, but they won't be able to The race offers runners a choice of because of the cold," Zahren said. participation in either a 5-mile run or a Instead, SUB plans to serve mint 
2-mile walk/jog, Zahren said. chocolate chip ice cream and hot cocoa in the Dooley Room of Lafortune. 
"Anyone can run this course," said Zahren. "What we hope is that people Despite the weather, Zahren and SUB will come out and have fun with it, still hope for a good turnout. because it is a 'fun run', and it is for a "It's always tough to advertise right 
good cause," she said. after spring break and we were hoping· The proceeds from the Irish Jog will to come back to spring (warm weather), benefit the Beeler-Hipp scholarship not winter," said Zahren. "But we've put fund. The fund was established by the race together really well. It's a student government in memory of the tradition, and a growing one at that. 
=---;€~-.
.....________ ------.....__, . -. Colleen Hipp, who were killed in last to do it even better." 
two swimmers, Meghan Beeler and Next year, weather permitting, we hope 
1 
year's bus accident, Zahren said. Students may sign up on Thursday Nrv 

The race will end at Fieldhouse Mall, and Friday in the SUB office on the _ _ where the prizes will be awarded. The second floor of Lafortune Hall. SUB is I~· ,_ ~ /-­entry fee for the jog is $2. Prizes are also taking signups the day of the race j _. $10 for the men's and women's winners from 1:30 until the race's start at 2:30. 


Thursday, March 18, 1993 The Observer page 11 
n• ~ :'"'', :""', :""": :·"": :...... :""": :"'": :""": :"'": !""": ...." 
. ~ ,, " ~ . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . ~ 0 ,,.,... .
~ ~ 
C) '"' .. ~ ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . •,_ \, flt CJ 
~ ,.., / W ·.....::...... :.....:~ ·· .. L..... L....::.....:~ ~~ ·· .. L....: ---:-k_,.,.A,,!J '#,· ~ 

SCHEDULE  NHL STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  ·  
All Times EST EAST REGIONAL First Round Thursday, March 18 At L. B. Joel Memorial Coliseum Winston-Salem, N.C. St. John's (16·10) vs. Texas Tech (16·11), 12:20 p.m. Arkansas (20·6) vs. Holy Cross (23·6), 30 minutes after preceding game Rhode Island (1 6-1 0) vs. Purdue (18·9), 7:35p.m. North Carolina (26·4) vs. East Carolina (13-16), 30 minutes after preceding game Friday, March 19 At The Carrier Dome Syracuse, N.Y. Massachusetts (23·6) vs. Pennsylvania (22·4). 12:30 p.m. Virginia (19·9) vs. Manhattan (23·6), 30 minutes after preceding game New Mexico State (25-7) vs. Nebraska (20·10), 7:35 p.m. Cincinnati (24·4) vs. Coppin State (22·7), 30 minutes after preceding game MIDWEST REGIONAL First Round Thursday, March 18 AI The Horizon Rosemont, Ill. Kansas (25·6) vs. Ball State (26·7), 12:35 p.m. Brigham Young (24-8) vs. Southern Methodist (20-7). 30 minutes after preceding game Duke (23-7) vs. Southern Illinois (23-9), 6:10p.m. California (19·6) vs. Louisiana State (22. tO), 30 minutes after preceding game Friday, March 19 At The Hoosier Dome Indianapolis Oklahoma Slate (19·8) vs. Marquette (20· 7). 12:20 p.m. Louisville (20·8) vs. Delaware (22·7), 30 minutes after preceding game New Orleans (26-3) vs. Xavier, Ohio (23· 5), 7:32 p.m. Indiana (28·3) vs. Wright State (20·9), 30 minutes after preceding game  SOUTHEAST REGIONAL First Round Thursday, March 18 At Orlando Arena Orlando, Fla. Florida State (22·9) vs. Evansville (23-6), 12:30 p.m. Kansas Slate (19·10) vs. Tulane (21·8), 30 minutes after preceding game Western Kentucky (24·5) vs. Memphis State (20·11), 7:32 p.m. Seton Hall (27·6) vs. Tennessee State (19-9), 30 minutes after preceding game Friday, March 19 At Memorial Gymnasium Nashville, Tenn. Wake Forest (19-8) vs. Tennessee­Chattanooga (26-6). 12:35 p.m. Iowa (22-8) vs. Northeast Louisiana (26· 4), 30 minutes after preceding game Kentucky (26·3) vs. Rider (19-10), 6:04 p.m. Utah (23-6) vs. Pittsburgh (17·10), 30 minutes after preceding game WEST REGIONAL First Round Thursday, March 18 AI The Jon M. Huntsman Center Sail Lake Cit:r Illinois (16·12) vs. Long Beach State (22­9). 2:45p.m. Vanderbilt (26-5) vs. Boise State (2t -7), 30 minutes after preceding game Arizona (24-3) vs. Santa Clara (t6-t1), 8:04p.m. Temple (17·12) vs. Missouri (19·13), 30 minutes after preceding game Friday, March 19 At The McKale Center Tucson, Ariz. New Mexico (24·6) vs. George Washington (19·6), 2:45 p.m. Georgia Tech (19·10) vs. Southern University (20·9), 30 minutes after preceding game Michigan (26·4) vs. Coastal Carolina (22· 9), 6:1 o p.m. Iowa State (20-10) vs. UCLA (21-10), 30 minutes after preceding game  WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division W L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv Pittsburgh 42 21 6 90 275 221 24-6-4 18-15·2 18-9·2 Washington 34 27 7 75 272 241 15-10·6 19-17-1 10-15·2 NY Rangers 31 27 11 73 261 254 19-9-5 12·1 6-6 11-14·3 New Jersey 3 3 30 6 72 249 247 20-11·3 13-19·3 14-13·1 NY Islanders 3 2 3 0 6 70 272 245 17-15-2 15·15-4 17-13·1 Philadelphia 26 32 11 63 264 273 16-12-5 6-20·6 11-17-3 Adams Division x-Montreal 42 23 6 90 266 232 25-9-2 17-14·4 19-10-0 x-Quebec 39 22 10 66 301 256 20-14·2 19-6-6 15-11·3 x-Boston 39 24 7 85 277 240 24-8-3 15-16·4 15·9-1 Buffalo 33 27 10 76 294 252 23-10·2 10·17-8 16-10-4 Hartford 21 43 5 47 233 306 10-21·5 11-22-0 11-17·3 Ottawa 9 57 4 22 170 333 9-22·4 0·35-0 4-23-1 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv Chicago 36 22 10 66 236 194 21·9·5 17·13·5 17-1 0·2 Detroit 37 27 9 83 309 246 20-13·3 17-14·6 16-12·3 Toronto 36 25 9 81 245 204 22-10-5 14-15-4 16-12·5 Minnesota 33 30 9 75 244 250 16-14-6 17·16·3 12-15·3 St. Louis 33 30 9 75 244 240 20-12-6 13·18·3 13-12·5 Tampa Bay 21 44 5 47 206 265 12-21·2 9-23-3 7·20·2 Smythe Division x-Vancouver 36 23 9 85 292 222 23·7·4 15·16·5 20·7·2 Calgary 36 24 10 82 274 240 20-10-5 16-14-5 18-6-3 Los Angeles 31 31 7 69 276 267 16-13·4 13-18·3 13-13·2 Winnipeg 31 33 6 68 256 266 19-13·2 12·20-4 12-13-3 Edmonton 24 39 6 56 206 277 15-15-5 9-24-3 10·19·1 San Jose t 0 5 B 2 22 186 341 7·28·1 3-30·1 7-22·1 x-clinched playoff berth. Monday's Games Thursday's Games Los Angeles 4, Buffalo 2 Boston at Ottawa, 7:40 p.m. Boston 3, New York Rangers 1 Montreal at Quebec, 7:40 p.m. Quebec 4, Toronto 2 Edmonton at New Jersey, 7:40 p.m. Tuesday's Games Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:40 p.m. Late Games Not Included Toronto at Tampa Bay, 7:40 p.m. Boston 3, New Jersey 1 Minnesota at Detroit, 7:40 p.m. Hartford 4, Tampa Bay 3, OT New York Islanders at Los Angeles, 10:40 p.m. Philadelphia 4, Minnesota 3 Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. Buffalo 2, St. Louis 2, tie Wasjllngton 4, Detroit 2 Chicago at Calgary, (n) New York Islanders at San Jose, (n) Winnipeg at Los Angeles, (n) Wednesday's Game Edmonton at New York Rangers, 7:40 p.m.  BASEBALL Commissioner's Office COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE-Named Peter N.T. Widdrington administrator and Dick Wagner assistant to the chairman of the executive council. American League CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Placed Tlm Fortugno, pitcher, on waivers tor the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. Sent Mike Butcher, Hilly Hathaway, Jose Mussel, Victor Silverio, Paul Swingle, Julian Vasquez, Ron Watson, and Pete Janicki, pitchers, and Kevin Davis, infielder, to their minor-league camp for reassignment. DETROIT TIGERS-Optioned Frank Gonzales and Mike Lumley, pitchers; Ivan Cruz, infielder; Riccardo Ingram and Jody Hurst, outfielders; and Rico Brogna, first baseman, to Toledo of the International League. Sent Danny Bautista, outfielder, to London of the Eastern League. MINNESOTA TWINS-Optioned Jayson Best, Oscar Munoz and Alan Newman, pitchers; Steve Dunn and Denny Hocking, Infielders, and Marty Cordova, outfielder, to Nashville ot the Southern League. Optioned Paul Russo, third baseman, to Portland of the Pacific Coast League. Sent Darrln Chapin and Rob Wassenaar, pitchers, and Ray Ortiz, outfielder, to their minor-league camp for reassignment. SEATILE MARINERS-Placed Mike Schooler, pitcher, on waivers for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. Optioned Roger Salkeld aod Jeff Darwin, pitchers, to Calgary ot the Pacific Coast League. National League ATLANTA BRAVES-Sent Mike Blrkbeck, Dennis. Burlingame, Mike Loynd, Napolean Robinson, Donnie Strange, Jeff Johnson, Vance Lovelace and Dale Polley, pitchers; Mike Mordecai, infielder; Ron Jones, Mike Kelly and Mike Laga, outfielders; and Mark Bailey, catcher, to their minor-league camp for reassignment. CHICAGO CUBS-Optioned Phil Dauphin, outfielder, and Dave Stevens, pitcher, to Iowa of the American Association.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
~-N_O_T_IC_E_S__~II~__FO__R_R_E_N_T~~  ~~__FO__R_S_A_L_E~  And every sunday­Buy 2 feet, get 3rd FREEII  Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to tum? We offer confidential  limes.) AIRHITCH (r) 212·864·2000.  
counseling at no cost to you. For  ANYONE interested in  
TYPING 256·6657  Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom  STEREO COMPONENTS:  SR 23 & Ironwood  more information call Nancy at 232·  forming an organization  
House now for 93-94 school  1 yr · like new ($900)  5B43.  concerned with disability  
Actors Needed!!  year 234-1886  NAD Preamp & Amp  -The Sixth Sense- issues should call Kevin at  
student film  Philips CD player  Have you you ever experienced de  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  282·2906  
Call Greg x3322  Klipsch speakers  ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing  make dreams for your baby come  
or Pat 287-4227 for details.  subwoofer, tapedeck  you tum to? Do you belief in E.S.P?  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  Alabama '93  
Staying at ND/SMC for the  x152B Will or Mike  Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a  city; summers by the beach; your  1 I'm crazy Pigman & I want  
''SENIORS''  SUMMER?  way of life for you?  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  some...can-dyl  
LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT  OR  fireplace in winter, and by ocean  2 Don't use all that  
Sunday, March 21  Sub-lease our apartment at  YEAR?  Do you think horoscopes and  waves in summer. Art, music, the  3 I'm afraid to fall asleep-1 might get  
SENIOR CLASS MASS  CASTLE POINT!  NEED FURNITURE?  fortune telling are bogus, perhaps  best education, endless love. Call  my ass kicked  
7:00 Dillon Hall  WE HAVE:  even sacrilegious?  Franny or Stephen collect.  4 Get the$#@! out of my shower  
Celebrant Fr. Hesburgh  CALL 4-4673 TODAY!!  BEDS  We're interested in what you think!!  (212)369-2597.  5 I need a postoffice  
Refreshments follow  COUCHES  Call the Accent department of The  6 I can't f_g believe you, you  
TABLE  Observer  Everyone have pity on David Haas •  f__g slut, your 8 mo. pregnant  
DEB'S TYPING SERVICE 1·656­ 5 CHAIRS  and talk to Kenya at 631-4540.  He has just begun his last 100 days  w/ my child  
3038 PICK-UP/DELIVERY  Four bedroom furnished Oakhill  ENTERTAINMENT CENTER  of bachelorhood, and needs all the  7 macaroni and teflon  

 Condo open for summer rental.  DRESSERS  TRB for 1 00 days but TUNA  sympathy he can get!  8 Ho-de-do  
ILOST & FOUND I  Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug @ 614-237-1370 for info.  AND A DESK CALL 273-281 0  forever! How cool is it that SNOW is  ADOPTION: A loving happy home, financial security, and educational  9 I bet you feel like dump 1 0 Poke Poke Poke  
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  SANYO 4 SEPARATE  21 today??? Have a great  opportunities await your newborn.  "SENIORS"  
FOUND: SET OF KEYS AT KNOTI·  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  COMPONENT STEREO  day. Thanks for last night :)  We can help with your expenses.  
BADIN FORMAL ON 2/26. CALL  219·291-7153.  (tuner, amp,EQ, and tape deck)  Please call us collect: David and  Sunday, March 21  
ANNE MARIE  $150.00 271·1443  Top 10 Reasons to wish Meahan  Rosemary (919) 288·4490 Let's  SENIOR CLASS MASS  
4-4700.  Roomate for next year needed for  Ask for Steve  Nix a Happy 21st Birthday(March  help each other.  7:00 Dillon Hall  
Castle Point apartment.  17)  Celebrant Fr. Hesburgh  
Lost: three keys on a NIKE key ring. If found please return to 217 Flanner or call X1004  Call 273-9644 for more info.  PERSONAL  10. She's good on sidewalks 9. She went to Brigets on Senior Night (Want to Dance?)  Student Activities is now hiring students for the 1993-94 academic year. Positions available as  Refreshments follow Top 20 from ND Crew's  
4 BEDRM/3BATHRM SEMI­ B. She was one of the 105 at  Building Managers, Sound Tachs,  Neverending Spring Training  
LOST: ID case on Tuesday, March  FURN. OAKHILL CONDO  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  Commons  Room Monitors, Stepan Managers,  1.Suck it up! (and deal)  
2. It was lost in or near the second  4 RENT '93·'94 SUM and/or YEAR  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  7. She's 5'9"  Office Assisstants, Set Up Crew,  2.When your asshole pucker  
floor of the library. If the case or  CALL 277·9452  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  6. She likes whipped cream ,  Information Desk & Games Room  factor reaches 3, park it.  
any of its contents have been found,  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  showers and lollipops(Whoa Babyl)  Attendants, and more. Stop by 315  3.Viva Las Vegas!  
please call Kelley at 273-2990.  Newly Remodeled 5br.  5. She's got a CRUSH on you  LaFortune to pick up an  4.The Pines ... roaches big enough to  
house for rent  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  4. You can't blame her for that late  application. Deadline for applying is  ride.  
REWARDIIII Lost set of keys  Close to ND, all appliances, security  HPC PRESENTS:  night at Denny's (she didn't know he  Friday, March 19.  5.Tennessee is closed!  
with Ren & Stimpy keychain  system, etc.  would be there)  6.The boats are insured; I'm not.  
before Spring Break. Call  $650/ mth. 232·8256  Buy a Domer/Bail a Domer  3. She's TOO SEXY  NO EXPERIENCE! $500 TO $900  Let's get the hell outta here.  
Ryan x1007.  Day  2. She's got control on top  weekly/potential processing FHA  ?.Organ tuna?  
2 br. Apts for rent  1. Her middle name is Peckham!  mortgage refunds. Own hours. 1­ 8.You go gir11  
LOST: A Gold Signet Ring in  totally remodeled with new  Put a pal in jail, or buy the services  Happy 21st Meaghan  501-646-0503 Ext 447. 24 hours.  9.Can we find an ATM?  
Haggar Classroom Building.  appliances and lots of space  of your favorite campus celebrity.  Love Kathy and Carla  1 O.Parking space #68?  
IF Found PLEASE CALL  truly the best price in town  PASTA CAFE  11.1n a million years, I never thought  
Katie at 273·1595.  Call us and compare  March 18, 1993 in LaFortune  Finally, the list:  1636 N. Ironwood  I'd be at Scott's House.  
232-8256  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  10) 4 in 1 twin bed  Mon.-AII·U·Can Eat Spaghetti $3.95  12.1'm a shy guy.  
50,000,000 babies  9)From lamb sex to phone sex  Wed.-$2.00 off Any Dinner  13.Take a nice long look boys.  
3-5 person furnished house, SEC  8)You can't keep it up all  14.Cindy, see that post?  
Syst, wash/dry, Beach V·Ball, Prime  "'SENIORS'"  night... watch me  CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. ND  15.0ne, two, & shove ... um,  
WANTED  Locaton 233-9947.  LAST chance to buy  7)1 found D's sensitive spot 6)Ruben, let me feed you  Grad. Happily married for 4 years. Anxious to adopt newborn infant.  Shannon? 16.Fief  
SENIOR FORMAL tickets!!!  5)Lisa's electric elephant  Personal meeting welcome. Lawful  17.Bitches, man, bitches.  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  SUMMER SESSION ·Visiting  4)And your going to be a priest,  and proper pregnancy related  18.Mr. Potato Head with teet  
· fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  Professors, grad students.  Thurs. March 18 6·9 pm  Mark  expenses paid. Couple approved by  19.My impression of Dave Reeder's  
canneries or $4000+/month on  4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities.  Room 1 08 LaFortune  3)Leave my lamb alone  Texas adoption authorities in  5 points of contact.  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call  2)Hand check  advance of placement. State  20.A homeless shelter?  
Room & Board! Over 8000  Paul or Monica 232·2794.  Another Lenten Friday, and  1)Ruben's having sex with the lamb  supervised adoption procedures.  
openings. No experience  more meatless baked ziti!  Call collect: David & Maureen  C&C C&C C&C C&C C&C  
necessary. Male or Female. For  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT  All students, faculty and staff  (512) 452-3416.  Capable & Committed  
employment program call1·206·  SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT  Try some fish &chips at  are invited to play pickup  WALSH Can Count on  
545·4155 ext. A5584  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND  SUBWAY  basketball games with guests  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  Capua & Christopherson  
IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS  from the Center for the Homeless  Jet there anytime for only $169 from  as Co-Presidents  
Need 1 bdrm apt for summer.  2773097  Daily meal deals on  Friday, March 19th at Stepan  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  C&C C&C C&C C&C C&C  
Call Nicole at X4935.  Tuna & Crab subs  Center from 6-8pm.  (when available) with AIRHITCHI  
Info • Mark @ 272-B563.  (Reported in Let's Gol & NY  

.... 
----~--­
page 12 
Thursday, March 18, 1993 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBAI.JI.J CHAMPIONSHIP 1993 

1st Round: 2nd Round: Regional Regional March 18-19 March 20-21 Semifinals Finals 

_!l Kentucky 26-3 
'~;~~·~c~~~--------}--­..~LP.~.~UrQ~-1-?.:!.~J Nashville, Tenn. t.................. 
~;:~_;;~;-~~;~~~~~-~~.}----··--·------···----······.........]~-arch 19 & 21 , 
4) Iowa 22-8 ---·----·------· ;·~;·~-~--~~~:~~-;_·i;.J -·. -----~ --Charlotte, N.C. 
6) Kansas St. 19-10 March 25 & 27 ~~ ,-~~;~;;.~~~........~]-........................................, 
.. ~)..~-~()_rif:l.a..~~:--~:.9. ......} ...............................) 
14) Evansville 23-6 .._............................_............ 
............................................. Orlando, Fla. ................................ .!.l.I/'J.:..~I!rll.~c:.k.Y...?~:S..} _................... _. __ --~arch 18 & 20 1_Q)_~j!!fl~~?.!:._29-_1_1__ ) ..~t~-~!()0..1:i.a.~l __2.!.:~ .....} 
1_~)._~n-~-~~t._19_~~---.................--............._. 

New Orleans 
M(~STdi;i::~:~~j~~f!!!~]]).j~:;:,,;~-i(~~:::::!:!i!!::::·i;!)i1·r;[1~~ April3 
1-~=~~g~:~::;;:~--~---···········--··----...............~ 5).1QY.t'~ St. 20710.. ..... .... , 
~) VCL.A.?.1-10 ........J..------------------·-·· 
Tuacrcshon, A&ri2z..1········ ..........................__
;;}:;~~==~~-:!.) ......... .........M,.19 
4) G!1.9IQ!~ J~-~-,J~.:J 0 
1~)$Qutl1em L.J.,?Q-:~J-· --------------­
Seattle 
March 26 & 286) Illinois 18-12. ..... 
l1l.I.-..~I!.C.IJ.SI•.22~1! .. J--------------.. -~ 
3.).Vaq!;l~_rbilt_?E:l.:~------·~ ---·---) 
14) Boise St. .21-7 ......................................... 
· · ········· ······ · ..... ......... Salt Lake City 7) Temple 17-12 March 18 & 20 
1Q)Mi!!W.Ilri HH.~....J --------------,.............................. 
;?}.Arizona 2+..~............ 
15lSaota .CiaraJ.6.:ll.. ~ ......................................... 

National Championship AprilS· 
~ 
·····1 ...........................................................:···· 
Regional Regional 2nd Round: 1st Round: Finals Semifinals March 20-21 March 18-19 

EAST 4 
1) North Carolina 28-4
...............-......................~ 
16) East Carolina 13-16 ............................... \ 8) Rhode Island 18-10

I------------------j 
9) Purdue 18-9
Winston-Salem, N.C. \ .................................................... ................................ March 18 & 20 5) St. John's 18-10 
J ....................................~--~:;-:::~~:~~~:~~:~-~-~-----­
I 
' ~ ~-;j--~~;~--~~:~~--;·;~~--------·. 
East Rutherford, N.J. ... ·· · · ........................... March & 6) Virginia 19-9
26 28 
J ·· .................................. ~ 11) Manhattan 23-6 .. ....... . ' J.....~)-~!:':~~S..'?.~.U.~.~t_t~..~-~=~ Syracuse, N.Y.•--·-----\. 1-~_L~~-~-~~Y.~~~~-~~--~-~~-­...................... ········ March 19 & 21 7) New Mexico St. 25-7
~ -------~ . ... ... -(~ _1_;;_~~:;.~:;i_;:~:~........ ........................................ · 15) Coppin St. 22-7 New Orleans 
April3 
St. Louis March 25 & 27 _ 6)9!1-l_~c:>rnicl.19-8
J...................................... ~_1_1).!:?.~.~-~-:2.?.:~9. ....... 
. ~ .......................i-1_~ ::::~~~-,;;_~:.~----
Rosemont, Ill. ................................ .. March 18 & 20 ..!>..Brigham y~ng 24-8 
............ ...... .... ........................ --------~ 10) So. Methodist 20-7 
~ 
I__ -------~;~;:;;; =:~~ ::: 
AP 
ALUMNI 
HALL'S 

IRISH 
-

Saturday, March 20th At the Center of the Universe 
INVITATIONS ONLY 


-

----~~-~----­
Thursday, March 18, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Hey Kowena O'Shea 00°0 ~0mcr ~11ru1 wocro~~~~g
Saturday, March 20 

That means no


8:10 pm 
more tears at 
Students $7 

the door! 
General Admission $1 0 
Happy Birthday!
* * Buy one get one free! * * 
Love, 
Available at LaFortune Information 
The Rest of the 
Desk 631-81 28 

8-Ball Possee 
+ 
LENTEN GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, March 28 3:00-7:00p.m. 

A time of silence and reflection on the biblical texts of the Sundays of Lent. 
Place: Fischer Graduate Community Center Cost: The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which a donation will be welcomed. CALL BY fRIDAY MARCH 26 TO RESERVE A PlACE. Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 
1m1 




NCAA'S 
continued from page 16 
Purdue, which will play Rhode Island in the first round of the East Regional Thursday night, was unbeaten in nine non-con­ference games. Then in the Big Ten campaign, they managed only four wins in Mackey Arena. 
ures.



CHOROVAYA 
TENNIS 
continued from page 16 
full," noted Bayliss. 


AKADEMIA 
The Lobos boast an overall record of 10-7, and feature top singles player Gary Carswell, who moved up from No. 53 to No. 47 in the
Men 's a cappe/1 choir 
latest rankings. Carswell also teams with Roy Canada to produce the Lobos number-one doubles team, though their second team of Garett 

from Moscow 
Prins and Coulter Wright is currently ranked 21st and sport a 13-7 record. 
Washington Hall Auditorium 
"To be 5-4 on the road in this league and 4-5 at home is very unusual for us. That was prob­ably the most frustrating part for our staff this year," said Keady. 
''I'm sure our players aren't old enough to understand this yet, but we don't take advan­tage of our home-court situa­tion and we don't come out and get after folks. So there was not an edge there this year, that's for sure." 
Southeast Regional 
With only 2,300 students to its name, the University of Evansville realizes its basket­ball team will be an underdog Thursday against Florida State. 
The Seminoles (22-9) enter the first-round NCAA Tourna­ment game ranked 11th na­tionally and seeded third in the Southeast Regionals in Orlando, Fla., a short road trip from Florida State's campus in Tallahassee. 
Evansville, which came nowhere near the Top 25 this year, is seeded 14th among the 16 teams in the region. The Aces (23-6) landed in the NCAA Tournament instead of the NIT by upsetting Xavier in the Mid­western Collegiate Conference tournament. 
So how does a scrappy crowd of overachievers hope to match up with a talent-rich team led by two-sport star Charlie Ward? 
First, they pay no attention to the polls, the seeds or the press clippings about celebrity oppo­nents. 
"We never talked about the seeds at all," said Scott Shref­fler, a fifth-year senior who is part of his third NCAA Tour­nament team at Evansville. 
West Regional 
As Vanderbilt coach Eddie Fogler studied videotapes of Boise State, the image of Tonoka Beard grew larger and larger. 
The 6-foot-10, 245-pounder may be the Broncos' best hope against the eighth-ranked Commodores in Thursday's NCAA West Regional first-round matchup. 
"Tonoka Beard is an out­standing center, a senior four­year starter, very quick and strong -a heck of a player," Fogler said Wednesday. 
Beard's 21.2 points and 7.7 rebounds per game aside, No. 8 Vanderbilt (26-5) is expected to have little trouble with Boise State (21-7). 
Santa Clara (18-11) plays No. 
5 Arizona (24-3) and Temple 
(17-12) plays Missouri (19-13). 
Vanderbilt was 14-2 in an un­
expected SEC championship 
regular season, with all five 
starters scoring in double fig­
Bill McCaffrey led the 
players, Will Forsyth, Chuck Coleman, and Mark Schmidt all are ranked in the top 50, with Forsyth dropping from No. 19 to 31st, Coleman at 44th, and Schmidt at 35th. Forsyth and Coleman team to produce the nation's 14th-ranked doubles team. 
This is the first appearance for New Mexico in the Blue-Gray, which is the same situation Notre Dame was in last season. 
"We hope to do well even though this is the first time in the tournament," said New Mexico head coach Tim Cass, "There is a strong field in the tournament." 
way, averaging 20.2 points per game. 
"It doesn't take much to real­ize we're in deep water," Boise State coach Bobby Dye said. "You're talking about one of the power conferences in the United States." 
The Broncos finished second to Idaho during the Big Sky's regular season, but defeated the Vandals 80-68 last weekend for the league tourney crown and automatic NCAA berth. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Sign ups for SMC lnterhall 
soccer and volleyball will be Thursday March 18 at 6 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. For more information call 284­5549. 
Aikido Club will have practice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. Beginners are welcome. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club is having a club show Sat., March 20, at Kensington. Call Megan for details at 634-2784. If you are interested in showing stockseat at Purdue on March 27, please call Katie at 284­5520. 
The Irish's top three singles 
0MPU5 
MINISTRY 



COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I VIDEOS I AUDIO ACCESSORIES I CARRYING CASES I HOME STORAGE I () 
........ 0 3: 
Vl 
-u w )> Vl ("") 
<: -( 
0 
0 
........ 
Vl ("") 
w U1
T() Wti~l?~ IT~ Vl 
~· 
~ ........ 
0 
Vl 
() 
Vl lHl HAMMlS THE JUDYBATS )> 
w 
U1 0 Vl 0 rrl <: -i
NOIHl DAMl HOOKSIOHl 
-( 0 rrl 
Cl 
<: ·on t~e campus· U1 
:J ........ 
........ 
OPlN MONDAY-SAIUHDAY 9-5 < 
0 

KELLY 
continued from page 16 
Cincinnati, Arizona and Vanderbilt, who sit quietly in the shadows, waiting to pounce on some unsuspecting favorite. 
History seems to be on Indi­ana's side this year. Bob Knight has never gone more than six years without a championship, and his last title came in 1987. That year the Final Four was in New Orleans and the Hoosiers came out of the Midwest Region. Same scenario this year. 
Ranked No. 1 in the season's final poll. the Hoosiers carry the favorite's label with an as­terisk. Sophomore Alan Hen­derson missed the last month of the season with a knee injury. If he is unable to return, Indiana will return to Bloom­ington early. 
North Carolina faces similar difficulties. Point guard Derrick Phelps injured his back in the ACC tournament and his status is questionable for the tourna­ment. The Tar Heels' chances are questionable without him. 
Michigan should return to the Final Four to give the Fab Five a chance to win their first. 
They could run into a road­block in Georgia Tech if the Yellow Jackets play as well as they did in the ACC Tourna­ment, but that is unlikely from a team who lost 10 regular sea­son games. 
Farther down the road a date with Vanderbilt or Arizona awaits, but neither team has the tournament experience or the raw talent to handle the Wolverines. 
Kentucky and Seton Hall will 
Vl 
w 
Cl 
0 £d J 12o<)<) 
> tape 7o<)<) 
Vl 
w 
..... 
..... 
w 
Vl Vl 
<: 0 
........ 

0 

Vl 
cd lJo<)<)
Vl 
Cl 
1­
0 t::d J 12o<)<) tapeJ So<)<) 
<: 
a. 
~ tape so<)<) EXPIJB 03121193
0 0 
........ COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I VIDEOS I AUDIO ACCESSORIES 
slug it out for the Southeast Regional title. Both teams have had their ups and downs this year, but both have all the weapons to make a serious run at the title. 
The tactical matchup between Rick Pitino and P.J. Carlisimo is enough to make it one of the best games of the tournament. 
But those marqee matchups are still a few miles down the road. 
Today all the hype and expec­tation will end and the games will begin. All the speculation becomes meaningless. Game plans are in place and nothing matters other than what hap­pens on the court. 
A sea of questions will be an­swered before the crowning moment on April 5, but regard­less of who emerges from the clutter as college basketball's best of 1993, one question will remain. 
Where the hell is Rider? 
"Eating to Fuel Your Active Lifestyle" 
By Nancy Clark R.D., Nutrition Consultant To the Boston Celtics 
Free Lecture at Battell Center 
258--1606 
March 20 1:00 p.m. 
SMC softball wins four during break 
By BETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Belles had a successful first week of games in Orlando, Florida over Spring Break. They finished the week with a 4-3 record winning the last three games. 
"We improved each day we were down there," said Coach Don Cromer. "We have a lot of young players and this week gave them the opportunity to Don Cromer gel." 

The Belles did not lose heart after a disappointing first day losing to Alvernia College. The team also scrimmaged Grand Rapids Community College the same day, which allowed 
rrl 
U1

£dJ 12oS)S} 0 
)> 
c

tape 7oS)<) 0 

0 
)> ("") 
() 
rrl 
U1 U1 0 
;o 
rrl Vl 
........ 
() )> 
U1

£d J 12o<)<) rrl 
Vl

tape So<)<) 
I CARRYING CASES I HOME STORAGE I 
Cromer give everyone a chance to play. 
The Belles got a taste of vic­tory the following day by defeating Anderson University, although they lost to top-ranked Saint Norbert College later that afternoon. 
"Anderson was an important win," said junior Sara Miller. "We will play them later in the season and we hit well against their pitcher." 
Although taking a losses to both Saint Norbert College that same day and Maryville Uni­versity the following day, Cromer felt that the team began 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 

CONTEST: RIZE: 
Please submit all entries to: 
Name the Field Sports Marketing Dept. JACC 
to gel at this point. 
The Belles dominated against Ithaca College, Point Park Col­lege and trounced undefeated Loras College in their final day of games. 
"I think that these games helped us a lot," said freshman Tina Brockman. "We played well together after we got the kinks out." "Loras was by far our best game," said Miller. "We started the week off slowly, but man­aged to pull togethnr in the end." 
"We should have a successful season if we can get into a rhythm." added Miller. 
NAME TIIE NEW SOFTBALLF'IEI,D 


CD PLAYER 
.. 
Today 
Thursday, March 18, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSON 
LETS JIJSI LEI\'J£. II 1\-\f>...\ l'\'<\ \)()1-\L 
ACROSS 31 See 59 Across 56 Part of U.S.N.A. 32 Tiger Hall of 57 Picnic drink 
1-flower 
Farner
(potato vine) 59Ziegfeld
34 "Olympia" artist musical9 Goofed off the 35 Fish dish comedy, with 31
tee 38Cyma--(a Across
5 Spring wildflowers 
molding) 60 Type of type 40 Nigerian city 
6 Esprit de corps &2Aiways 41 Followers of 
7 Corrupt 64 Announcement 
fashion, e.g. 
8 Turkish hospice &5Athenian
43 Temporary statesman9 MMMDCCCLVII refuge
7 VII 66 Alpine ridges 
45 Tissue layer 67 Takes the 
46 Oxlike antelope 
Guidonian note measure of
47 Aromatic wood 
Ab-(from of an E. Indian 
the start) 
tree DOWN 23 Hairy wonder 
so Mythical hawk 1 Playwright 25 Basketry fiber 51 Mature Chayefsky27 Custard dessert 53 Organic 2 Anointed, old compound style55 Billiard stroke 
3 Enumerate 4 Bikers' org. 5Dimwit 6 Not for 
degustation 
7Wires 2&Gains in 42Cape 56 Fine 8 Erhard's strength 44A Stooge sa Where Perry discipline triumphed:
27 Brother's title 46Aglaia, 9 Showed delight Euphrosyne 1813
29 Wheat parts and Thalia 
~!!IP.!!IIt-:=+=+.-=+=-Ei 10 The Casa­33A k a the &1 Torched Orchestra 46 Matriculates 
Terrible &2 Fed. ecology 11 One of Kurt's 49 Evening party group
34Wooden lyricists hammer 52 Chalet features 63 Nite-spot 12A Kennedy 35 Golden State 54 Loamy deposit greeters 13lmproved resort .;.+=+.::;+=--r.::-:t 14 Explode 36Tomlin as 
Get answers to any three clues
Ernestine~:;.+::;~~ 21 First name in 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
mystery tales 37 Representative 
5656 (75¢ each minute) No. 0204
;..J..:~~~ 24 Press coverage 39 Bad-mouths 

THE IRISH JOG 
Saturday, March 20 Holy Cross Field 2:30 PM
::EEe»:111~~za1C»C»:a1 
Sign in 1:30-2:00
-Veyas
1:111 
Regist~ation $2 lt 
l~llii)J\Y & SA'riJili)J\Y !J/I!t & 2() 
Thur. I} Fr1. 4-6 s.u.o.___ 
Sports
page 16 
March Madness is officially underway 64 teams begin tournament with the same dream 
Midwest Regional 
College basketball's next dynasty? Don't close the book on the last one, says Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski. "People are waiting to close the chapter," Krzyzewski said as he prepared his Blue Devils for their NCAA opener 
... 
Illinois tonight in defense of their national championship crown. 

on Thursday night. "What we have to try to do is use that to our advantage, don't let anybody close any darn chapters on us. This is our time." 
Of course, Krzyzewski also realizes his Blue Devils are not as powerful as in the last two seasons, when they won the national championship. 
While the Blue Devils have plenty of postseason experience with star players like Bobby Hurley, Grant Hill and Thomas Hill, who have two championship rings each, Krzyzewski said his 1992-93 team has been more apprehensive at times. 
"They are more easily distracted than my last two teams," Krzyzewski said. "They might be distracted by a performance of a player against them ... it knocks them back. A call, or if they miss a couple of shots. In some games that will impact on them more than we would like . 
"This team gets along great, but that's what we mean by maturity. It has nothing to do with something like 'you stole my towel and I'm mad at you for life.' " 
The Blue Devils have lost seven games, including four since Feb. 13, and questions surround Grant Hill's effectiveness. While they're favored to beat Southern Illinois in a Midwest Regional opener in Rosemont, Ill., on Thursday, the Blue Devils (23-7) are 10-to~ 1 to make it three in a row. 
East Regional 
Purdue certainly doesn't mind a first-round NCAA as­signment far from home. The road has been friendlier to the No. 22 Boilermakers than their home arena for most of the season, anyway. "It's one of those things where it's certainly been the trend," said coach Gene Keady. see NCAA's /page 13 
JASON 
KELLY  ~  
Match Point  < •-­'-e-1.. ' ~  

Familiar sound opens a wide open NCAA tourney 
When the drumroll ceases and the first jump ball is tossed this afternoon, 64 college bas­ketball teams will begin the quest for the 1993 national championship. 
The steady beat of the drum has been building since the pairings were announced last Sunday as fans, players, and coaches swell with anticipation. 
The regular season and the conference tournaments are now a distant memory. Tunnel vision is now focused on New Orleans. That is the destination of only four members the 64-team field. but it is coveted by all. 
It takes a special blend of talent, experience, coaching and luck to reach college basketball's promised land, but it promises to be an exciting ride even for the teams who stall along the way. 
Teams like Hider, Coppin State, Coastal Carolina and Wright State are just debris that 
·needs to be cleared from the road to the Final 
Four to make room for the real contenders. 
And this year there are many. 
Indiana, North Carolina, Kentucky, Michigan, Kansas and Duke have each held the No. 1 ranking at some point this season. And every member of that group except Kentucky has been to the Final Four at least once in the last two years. 
Not to mention Seton Hall, Florida State, 
see KELLY/ page 14 
Notre Dame tennis teams enter pivotal weekends 
Women need win for NCAA berth 
Men set to challenge at Blue-Gray 
By AlAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame women's tennis team takes to the courts of Eck Pavilion today against Illinois, it will be fighting to keep its undefeated record intact. 
Although the Irish are 6-6 indual match play this season, their record is 2-0 versus Midwest Hegion teams. A win against the Lady Illini would push them 
one step closer to· 
g
receiving the Midwest's automatic NCAA bid. 
The Irish netters had . ~ been playing ..._. ""····~~' consistently until their ,A., recent stumble against '"""ii·:'"'~': 1• .,,.. •• 
South Florida. In order to beat the Illini, Jay Louderback though, the Irish will need to return to the form which helped them to a 5-4 upset of 19th-ranked Kansas over Spring Break. "Illinois recently beat a good Northwestern squad," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "That puts them in contention with the other top teams in the region [Notre Dame, Wisconsin, and Indiana)." The Irish have already defeated Northwestern earlier this season in Evanston, 6-3. Their other in-region victory was an 8-1 drubbing of Wisconsin in Madison. As in their upset over Kansas, Notre Dame may need strong play from its lower-seeded players in order to overcome Illinois' power at the upper 
SAINT MARY's 
Softball finishes strong on spring break trip. 
see page 14 
seeds. 
"Their number-one player [Lindsey Nimmo] will be very tough," said Louderback. "She's ranked fourteenth in the country." 
Notre Dame's highest ranked player in the International Tennis Association's most recent ratings is freshman Wendy Crabtree at No. 55. 
Crabtree lost 3-6, 4-6 to Nimmo earlier this season at the Eck Invitational, but she looks forward to today's rematch. 
"I think she [Nimmo] played well in the Eck Invitational, and I don't think I had my best match," said Crabtree. "It will be good to get another shot at her." 
For upperclassmen on the Irish squad, today's match will be a chance for another shot at the entire Illinois team. Notre Dame was defeated by the Illini last year. 
"I think with South Florida we may have overlooked them," said Crabtree. "But with Illinois, even though they're not ranked we know this is a match we can't joke about. Just the revenge factor is enough for us to get up for. 
"Hopefully we got our bad match out of the way. Our practices since the South Florida match have gone well and everyone's worked hard-that points to our mental focus for the Illinois match." 
A win over the Illini today would help the Irish as they enter a busy weekend schedule that includes home matches against Drake, Michigan, and Kansas State. 


By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team hit the road once again yesterday, as they will clash with New Mexico this afternoon in the first round of the prestigious Blue-Gray National Classic in Montgomery, Alabama. 
The match is yet another against an opponent ranked in the top-25, as New Mexico moved up from 24th to 19th in the latest Intercollegiate Tennis Rankings. But that is nothing new for the road weary Irish, as they have already faced ten such teams, including five teams ranked among the top five in the nation. 
"It really makes a difference when there's not any easy matches," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss, "But all you can do is play your best and learn how to absorb the losses. It's just a matter of how much your ego can take." 
Even though the Irish have not done as well as expected with the nation's toughest schedule, they have gotten their share of wins against top 25 foes, including wins against No. 20 Minnesota, No. 13 Texas, No. 27 Arizona State, and they suffered narrow losses to No. 6 North Carolina and No. 12 Kentucky. 
The Irish will be looking for a couple more quality wins this weekend, as they head to Alabama for a tournament they finished fifth in last season, posting a 2-1 record including with wins over Oklahoma State and Drake last year. The fifth-ranked Irish were bounced out of the tourney by 13th-ranked Florida. 
Last year 12 out of the 16 teams in the tournament were ranked in the top and the Irish expect another toug challenge from the Lobos in the fi round. The Irish are familiar with N 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Senior Mark Schmidt is currently the 35th-ranked singles player in the nation. 
Mexico, as they have prepared for them before. The Irish expected to play New Mexico in the championship of the Ice Volleys tournament in Minnesota earlier this year, but the Lobos lost to unranked San Diego in the first round and the Irish captured the title. 
"We know we will have our hands 
see TENNIS page 13 
SOUTHEAST REGION 
Parrish Casebier leads Evansville against Florida State. 
see page 13 







