W,/ZI 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO:~. MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ngobi: Sanctions ensure US lacking world order and security firm policy 
By NANCY FENOCKETTI 
News Writer 
Sanctions facilitate the pursuit of individual goals in an atmosphere of security and peace, according to James Ngobi, Secretary of the United Nations Security Committee, the keynote speaker of Friday's "Economic Sanctions and International Relations" conference. 
Essentially, "the idea of sanc­tions is as old as the oldest hu­man society," and sanctions carry out the vision of the founding fathers of the UN. They are the last resort before the use of force and, in princi­ple, "punishment at the na­tional level," said Ngobi, a citi­zen of Uganda and graduate of Oxford University. 
The purpose of sanctions is to insure peace, security, and good order in the society concerned, he said. 
The UN accomplishes these goals through the establishment of an individual committee for each situation, made up of fifteen members whose ob­jective is to monitor and rec­ommend how sanctions can be made more effective. 
In addition, this committee passes onto states information to help them investigate sanc­tions violations and allows them to use such measures as are necessary to halt and inspect vessels and insure these sanc­tions. 
However, "small powers feel inhibited against taking ac­tions," said Ngobi. 

Editor's note: The following two stories are the first in a four-part series examining the initial committee reports of Colloquy for the Year 2000. 

By ALICIA REALE 
Associate News Editor 
Colloquy for the Year 2000 is an attempt to look at where ND has been and what the vision is for the year 2000, according to Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs. 
"It is important to receive input from several different constituencies on that vision," she said. 
The Colloquy has been a very productive process, involving people from all different constituencies within the University, according to O'Hara. 
A 100-member colloquy of faculty, staff and students has spent the past 18 months de­veloping a report to assist Notre Dame's transition to the year 2000. The final report will be presented next month to the University's board of trustees. 
The colloquy will "seek to re­view the present reality that is Notre Dame and, bearing in mind its distinctive Catholic mission and heritage, identify the most appropriate steps to take to realize our vision for its future," said University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. 
Although most states don't want to presented to the world 

on sanctions 
as violating sanctions, present practices still leave much to be 
By ROB ADAMS 
desired, according to Ngobi. 
News Writer 
The success of sanctions de­pends on the degree of depen­The United States shoulddance of the country in question adopt a more severe policy onwith other countries, and the economic sanctions, according 
speed and ease with which 
to Gary Milhollin, who lectured sanctions can be enforced. 
Saturday on "Nuclear Arms
"Sanctions should be decisive and Economic Sanctions" asand swift in producing the ob­part of the conference on Eco­jective in the shortest possible nomic Sanctions and Interna­time," said Ngobi. 
tional Relations. 
Although the speed of im­"The U.S. should adopt theplementation is improving, in 'bombs-or-breakfast' theory,"the past, there were lags. For said Milhollin, referring to aexample, in the 60's, there was policy in which the Uniteda 3-year period between the States would give aid to devel­announcement of consideration oping nations who seem inter­of sanctions and their imple­ested in peace and ignore those mentation in Southern Rhode­developing nations who look tosia. 
build weapons. 
"In general, sanctions should not be employed as permanent America has a tendency topolicy because damage may far support a developing nationexceed the crime committed," until it has obtained nuclearNgobi said. 
weaponry and then sponsor
The UN Sanctions Committee sanctions, which involves onlytries to balance the strictness of withholding anything associ­sanctions with considerations ated with weaponry, accordingfor the innocent people. While to Milhollin.
"the purpose of sanctions is to influence the people in charge Milhollin cited the example of of forming national policy, ... 
certain Indian companiesunfortunately these are the 
which were trying to buy nu­people least affected," he said. 
clear weapons from the Rus­In spite of the difficulty they sian Federation. As a result,face, in most countries, the citi­America has sponsored sanc­
zens want the sanctions en­
tions against these companies. 
forced, he said. The committee authorizes All that jazz 
It is hard to sanction non­
"items categorized as essential 
Western companies and na­
During the Judges' Jam at the Collegiate Jazz Festival, Jimmy Heath, 
for humanitarian needs," but it 

tenor saxophone judge, shows his musical talent. see NGOBII page 4 was the 35th year anniversary for the event. 
cording to Malloy. 
A 25-member committee of the whole is responsible for planning and organizing the colloquy and for writing its final report. Malloy chaired the committee, which also included O'Hara, Provost Timothy O'Meara and Executive Vice President Father E. William Beauchamp. The committee's membership is a cross section of the University's students, faculty and staff, including the leadership of the faculty senate, undergraduate student government and the Graduate Student Union. 
Each member of the commit­tee of the whole also will serve on one of four committees ex­amining a particular facet of University life. Malloy headed the committee on mission, op­portunities and challenges; O'Hara chaired the committee on student life; O'Meara headed the committee on aca­demic life; and Beauchamp chaired the committee on fi­nances, University relations and athletics. 
Each committee has pre­pared an individual report. In 
May the committee of the whole will prepare a final, all-major aspect of University life, making it more broad than past 
see COLLOQUY I page 4 
self-reviews and reports, ac­tions, however, because it is more difficult to get information about how much nuclear power they have, according to Milhollin. 
This year's Festival 
South Africa is a good ex­ample of that because we are afraid of a powerful future regime developing there, but are unsure about how much progress towards nuclear ar­mament they have made, Mil­hollin said. 
When Brazil and Argentina wanted to obtain nuclear power, it took a small amount of international pressure to get them to stop, according to Mil­hollin. 
Milhollin lists Pakistan and India among the most danger­ous countries because they have no experience in a large­scale war, they have nuclear power, and they want more of it. 
"In the eighties, we gave In­dia breakfast, lunch, and din­ner," said Milhollin. 
Another area that has been kept under a close watch lately is North Korea, according to Milhollin. If North Korea launched an attack on U.S. forces in South Korea, the U.S. would not retaliate with any sort of sanctions, but would in­stead use conventional warfare, he said. 
In general, it is too early to tell how well America's present policy on sanctions towards nuclear arms is working, but it should be changed to the "bombs-or-breakfast" theory as soon as possible, according to Milhollin. 

page 2 Monday, April 5, 1993
The ObseNer 
eyes of Notre Dame's Father, Son and Holy Ghost) will be unable to control themselves, and will find it necessary to make whoopee a lot. All the time: before and after 2 a.m. on weekends and midnight on weekdays. But parietals are not the problem. Those who value parietals more than they value everyday contact with the opposite sex should be able to remain in single-sex dorms. However. privacy is just about all that parietals offer. Of course, "valuable" male bonding occurs during the Keenan Revue or the Dillon Pep Hally, but it resembles frat hazing more than genuine camaraderie, and generates the sexism that we are trying to leave behind as shameful history. If Notre Dame offered the option of co-ed housing, she would begin to combat this sexism on a new front-the breeding ground. Like an exterminator who moves in to destroy the place where insect larvae mature, Notre Dame could attack the system of hierarchical sexism that exists openly in male dorms. By dismantling this structure. the University could begin to stop the sexism before it starts. And by dismantling the archaic structure o single-sex dorms, the university would embark on a new kind of education for her male and female students-an education in how to communicate with one another. This is the fundamental problem with Notre Dame's lack o co-ed housing: that men and women spend far less time together than they must after leaving the University. Where else are men and women more strictly isolated from one another than they are at Notre Dame? Nowhere, except in cultures far different from our own, high school locker rooms, and novels about seventeenth-century New England. And in each of these scenarios, intersexual communication makes more sense than it does on this campus. Only in this environment does an institution which claims to educate send its men and women into adulthood without a pragmatic understanding of how to communicate with hal of the people that they will work with throughout their adult lives. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  

Today's Staff News Sports Jason Kelly John Lucas Sarah Doran Lab Tech Michael O'Hara David Ungeling Production Cynthia Ehrhardt GraphicsMelissa Cusack Kory Klem Chis Mullins Accent Steve Tankovich Christy Fleming The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) Is published Monday through Friday excepl during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

league was founded by former Notre Dame instructor, Joe Scheidler. 

• NOTRE DA -Sunday Notre Dame Council #1477 voted to distribute $20,000 to various area charities. These funds represent the proceeds from the Council's successful steak sandwich sales, held in front of the Council Home on the University of Notre Dame campus. This year's total represents the most successful season of fund raising in the Council's 83-year history. The amount raised exceeded the previous season's proceeds by almost $3,000. Donations were made in the amount of $7,000 to each o the Council's two principal charities, Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, In., and Corvilla Homes for the
CAMPUS 
Retarded in South Bend. Gibault School is the state project
Johnson. Keen awarded scholarships 
for the Indiana Knights of Columbus Councils. In addition,
• NOTRE DAME -Claire Johnson 
donations were made in the amounts of $1,500 to Holyand Bill Keen, co-presidents of Notre Cross Missions for an orphanage in Chili and work inDame/Saint Mary's right-to-life group, Africa, and $1,000 to St. Vincent de Paul Society for
were awarded the Brother John 
Christmas food baskets. The Council also gave funds to
LaValle scholarship award last 
support seminarians in Indiana, to St. Joseph ValleySaturday night. The award is given Special Olympics, two area Catholic high schools, andout by the Saint Joseph Right-to-Life Fatima Retreat Center. Other projects included donatingchapter. A $200 scholarship was given and refurbishing a piano to the South Bend Center for the
to both Johnson and Keen. "We 
Homeless and providing support for the distribution o
received the award because of our 28,000 coloring books depicting the life of Christ to
work as co-presidents and Bill has worked as a sidewalk Catholic elementary schools and C.C.D. classes. Notrecounselor since he was a senior in high school," said Dame Council #1477 will conduct its annual spring steakJohnson. That same weekend, eight ND/SMC's Right-to­sandwich sale on April 24 before the Blue and Gold inter­Life members attended a conference in Chicago, last week­squad football game. The public are invited to visit the
end, called "Meet the Abortion Providers: III." The 
campus and the Council Home for an open house. Forconference focused on speakers who were formerly pro­more information please contact Grand Knight David Certo choice and now are pro-life. According to Claire Johnson, at (219) 631-7018. 
co-president of ND/SMC's right-to-life group, the conference was put on by the Pro-life Action League. The 
OF INTEREST 
• A reconciliation service will be held this evening at • The Booklet, "Social Concerns Courses with Ex­
6:30 in Regina Chapel at Saint Mary's College. periental Learning Opportunities for Fall 1993-94," is now available to all interested students and faculty at the 
• ND/SMC Right to Life will be holding an important Center for Social Concerns and in the library office of the meeting this evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Campus Ministry. Stop by and pick one up. auditorium in room 122. They will discuss recent pro-life events as well as plan upcoming 4th annual pro-life • An instructional session on how to use Resume week. For further information conact Bill Keen at 634-Expert Plus to create your resume is scheduled for Tues­4259. day, April 6 from 3:30 to 5:00 P.M. in room 228 DeBar­
tolo. Sign up one day in advance by calling Career and Pllacement Services at 1-5200. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1614: American Indian princess Pocahontas married English colonist John Rolfe in Virginia. 

• 
In 1792: President Washington cast his first veto, rejecting a congressional measure for apportioning representatives among the states. 

• 
In 1951: Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were sentenced to death following their conviction on charges of being atomic spies for the Soviet Union. 

• 
In 1984: Kareem Abdui-Jabbar of the Los Angeles Lakers became the all-time scoring leader in the NBA as he reached a career total 31,421 during a game with the Utah Jazz. 

• 
Six years ago: An American soldier and a Turkish woman were killed in the bombing of a West Berlin discotheque, an incident which prompted the U.S. air raid on Libya more than a week later. 


YESTERDAY•s TRADING April 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Administration needs to educate outside classroom 
Boys will be boys. And girls will be girls. But we've got to live with each other in the real world. America is undergoing a rapid sexual integration 
9 
J~~project, and Notre Dame students are Rolando de hardly prepared for Aguiarwhat lies ahead. Viewpoint Editor 
Unfortunately, the -------­University doesn't see it that way. And the tradition of the Midwestern Catholic Fantasyland (complete with Sorinella's gold­domed palace) dictates this: the sexes must be segregated. 
In 21st-century America, when and where most of us will spend most of our lives, men and women will be living and working together every day. How is the University preparing us for that reality? By keeping the sexes separate. of course. 
And why must men and women be separate? Because if they live in the same building, these people, unmarried (and uncommitted in the 
NATIONAL Weather 
Pressure 
~
H L a &'SJ [TIJ 0 fxxxi ~I[ <t-eJu 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Allsoclatl1d Presa 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
FORECAST Mostly cloudy and cool with highs in the middle 40s. Lows this evening in the middle to upper 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  45  28  
Atlanta  58  47  
Bogota  63  45  
Cairo  73  52  
Chicago  46  26  
Cleveland  47  29  
Dallas  67  45  
Detroit  46  29  
Indianapolis  46  34  
Jerusalem  64  43  
London  52  39  
Los Angeles  70  58  
Madrid  70  45  
Minneapolis  53  28  
Moscow  52  32  
Nashville  52  44  
New York  52  37  
Paris  54  43  
Philadelphia  54  31  
Rome  54  45  
Seattle  54  37  
South Bend  47  23  
Tokyo  70  54  
Washington, D.C.  51  37  





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
VOLUME IN SHARES  NYSEINDEX  
307,355,420  -4.55 to 244.19  
S&P COMPOSITE  
-8.91 to 441.39  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
-68.63 to 3,370.81  
482  



GOLD 
+$0.20 to $328.80 oz 
SILVER 
-$.016 to $3.692 oz 
By HONORA BUCKLEY News Writer 
A review of architecture stu­dents schematic proposals for improving the Notre Dame campus was conducted Friday morning by Liam O'Connor, an instructor at the Prince of Wales Institute of Architecture. 
The purpose of the review was to offer students the oppor­tunity to exercise their knowl­edge on ideas for the campus. 
"We thought this would be a good theme for Notre Dame students to work with," said Professor Thomas Smith, ar­chitecture department chair. 
Some students focused on the area to the south of the main entrance to the University and on the new quad near DeBar­tolo Hall. Other students fo­cused on the stadium, the Per­forming Arts Center, and the area between the two. 
The proposals are part of a hypothetical project. Members of the administration and Uni­versity architecture staff were present at the review, but the designs were not created with the intention of being built upon, according to Smith. 
Students and faculty re­sponded to the proposals and made recommendations for improvement. A final review will be conducted April 27 at 
10:30 a.m. in the school of ar­chitecture. 
Do your friends a favor-­don't drink and drive. 

APRIL 5, 1993 
1) All clubs... Any group which have not signed up for meeting times or that missed their meetings must sign up for another time. Sign up sheets are on the bulletin board outside the Club Coordination Council Office. Come by and sign up! Also, Social Service/Action groups now have mailboxes outside the Club Coordination Council. Remember to check your mailboxes. 
2) Last day to access all club funds is April 15, plan accordingly See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 3)AII Graduate, Law, and MBA Organizations: Registration packets were mailed to you. If you have not received one, call the CCC at 631­4078 or Jennifer Blanchet at 634-4975. Packets are to be returned by April23. 4)C.A.U.S.A. will meet Thursday, April 8 at 6:30p.m. in the Sorin Room, Lafortune. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 

ACourse In 

Economics. 
Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality. 
~-------l~-------]1-------l 
:$1.00 Off:: $5.00 Off:: 200/o Off : 
: Haircut :: Penn JAil Haircarel
1 
I II I I I 
With studenti.D i i With studenti.D. 1 1 With student 1.D 1 I No double discounts No double d1scounts No double discounts I 
I reg $8 95 I I I I 
I . . II I I I L~~J L MasterCuts_J L~~J 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 
c Regrs COfoora!ron 1992 
277-3770 
The Observer!Teck Teng 
Awards are presented in the Indiana Collegiate Press Association conference held at Notre Dame this weekend. The Observer, Scholastic and Dome all took awards for their journalistic work. 
Press awards honor Observer 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Observer received third place honors as best newspaper of the year at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association's (ICPA) 36th annual convention Saturday. 
Awards included first place, best coverage of a single news event for "Swim Team bus crash." 
Other awards included: 
• 
First place, best front page design for Julie Barrett on the Nov.4 issue. 

• 
Second place, best news story for Paul Pearson's "Candidates' economic plans to open market." 

• 
First place, best news anal­ysis for David Kinney's "Faculty participation in governance." 

• 
Second place, best editorial called "Change frightens ad­ministration." 

• 
Honorable mention, best column for David Kinney's "Catholicity is everyone's re­sponsibility." 

• 
Second place, best feature story for David Kinney's " The enigma of Teach for America." 

• 
Third place, best feature story for Monica Yant's "The game oflife." 

• 
Third place, best sports feature story for Mike 


Scrudato 's "Jerome Bettis." 
• Third place, best review for Rolando de Aguiar's "Michelle Shocked travels with a new southern sound." 
Brendan· Regan received second, third and honorable mention places for best infor­mational graphics. They were "Roadtripping to Michigan State", "Higher education in South Bend" and "Lighthouse Place". 
• 
Second place, best editorial cartoon for Steve Duenes' "Camelot." 

• 
Third place, best editorial cartoon for Steve Duenes' "Voter." 

• 
Second place, best sports photo for Kyle Kusek's "A little daylight." 

• 
Third place, best photo es­say or picture story for Mar­guerite Schropp and Jake Peters' "Notre Dame vs. Northwestern". 

• 
Honorable Mention, best photo essay or picture story for Jake Peters and Maureen Long's "Notre Dame vs. Boston College." 

• 
Third place, best special is­sue for "Notre Dame vs. Stan­ford." 


The advertising department took third place overall for best advertising of the year award. 
Other advertising awards in-
Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
eluded: 
• 
Third place, best non-pho­tographic art for Brendan Re­gan's "The Big East." 

• 
Third place, best layout o ads in a single issue for Kevin Hardman on the Oct. 30 issue. 

• 
Third place, best photogra­phy in an ad for Kevin Hard­man's "David's Act II." 


In other categories, the Dome received second place as best yearbook of the year. Mean­while, the Scholastic Magazine won second place as best news/general interest magazine of the year. 
Other Scholastic awards in­cluded: 
• 
Third place, best cover design for the Nov. 14 issue. 

• 
First place, best news story for John Paul Potts' "Caught in the spotlight: student athletes at Notre Dame." 

• 
Third place, best editorial or essay for Dawn Parkot's "Don't be afraid to stare." 


The Scholastic took third place overall for advertising o the year award. Dave Chmiel received first place for best house ad called "Nothing better to do than sit on your duff?" 
ICPA membership includes 45 publications from colleges and universities from Indiana. 


page 4 The Observer Monday, April 5, 1993 
Colloquy 
continued from page 1 
inclusive final report for the board of trustees which will flow from discussion of these recommendations. 
"The reports reflect a lot of vi~ws of faculty, staff and stu­dents of Notre Dame," said Matthew Cullinan, assistant to Malloy. "People are happy about the information provided and the openness of the pro-

Report 
continued from page 1 
football team when they think of Notre Dame. We need to create an impression that is not just based on athletics," she said. 
While maintaining academics as a primary focus, the athletic department should strive to maintain both its on-field suc­cess and financial self-suffi­ciency, according to the sub­committee on athletics 
Among the problems cited by the subcommittee is the in­creased public and press scrutiny of decisions made by the athletic department, ac­cording to the Colloquy Report. 
"While honest disagreements are appropriate, frequently we we have seen -particularly in the media -a perceived tone of unconstructive, cynical at­tack at both Notre Dame and its administrators," the subcom-

Ngobi 
continued from page 1 
doesn't want to wind up allow­ing goods which are instead used for military purposes. For example, in the case of Yu­goslavia, the shipment of ci­garettes could be considered humanitarian, but the phos­phorus on their surfaces could 
Correction 
In a headline Friday. The Ob­server incorrectly stated that the Saint Mary's College Board of Governance (BOG) revised a smoking policy. BOG, however, will not vote until today on whether or not to approve the policy to restrict smoking in public areas. 
In an unrelated story, The Observer stated that a door at Le Mans Hall is completely unaccessible to disabled per­sons. Rather, the door is unac­cessible to handicapped per­sons only after business hours. The Observer regrets these er­rors. 
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 
cess. " 
The campus community knows more as a result of the information gathered and shared, according to Beauchamp. "All constituen­cies were involved -faculty, staff, students and administra­tors. The process was a very good one." 
The committees each "did a lot of listening," said O'Hara. "We (the committee on student life) came to a consensus of what recommendations were important. This was reflected in our final report." 
mittee writes. 
The subcommittee recom­mends that the tensions created by this scrutiny be alleviated so the athletic department "might continue its historical success in an environment slightly less critical. crabbed or cynical." 
In discussing the problems that stem from the scarcity of football tickets, the subcommit­tee makes several proposals that examine the feasibility of increased seating at the sta­dium. Having examined all the facets of the stadium issue, the subcommittee recommends that the expansion of the stadium to hold another 20,000 fans. be investigated seriously. 
While the report as a whole makes many suggestions and proposals, developing priorities for the University will be an important product of the Collo­quy Report, according to Beauchamp. 
"We need to look at what should be included within the goals and aspirations of the University," Beauchamp said. 
also be used to make explo­sives. 
Sanctions are passed by the UN Sanctions Council under the authority of Chapter 7 of the charter dealing with acts of ag­gression and threats to peace. So far, twenty-five of these measures have been adopted. These include action against Iraq in August of 1990 (Resolution 661) and an arms embargo against Yugoslavia in September 1991 (Res. 713). Action in 1992 involved Serbia and Montenegro (Republics of 


Happy Birthday Katie-girl! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Annie 
An OPEN HOUSE is going on now through April I 0 at 
MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS 
STOP IN FOR GREAT SAVINGS! 
We offer: 2 bedroom luxury apartments (4 apartments per building) Locked entry with intercom system Full size washer and dryer for each apartment Pool snd clubhouse facilities 6 minutes from campus Flexible lease terms Bring in this ad for S50 offyour first months's rent! For more information call: 277-3731 
Located at Cleveland and Bendix 
King memorials focus on future 
(AP) -Twenty-five years after the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s words were silenced by an assassin's bullet, civil rights leaders reminded a ra­cially charged nation Sunday that King dreamed of a land where children will not be judged by the color of their skin. 
In the past year, racial ten­sions have erupted into violence in Los Angeles, Las Vegas, San Francisco, Seattle, Atlanta and New York. 
"It seems sometimes that we take two steps forward and three back," said Elisa Gilham, 63, a trustee at Ebeneezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, where King was a co-pastor. 
King was shot April 4, 1968 at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tenn., where he was staying while in town to organize a sanitation workers' strike. James Earl Ray is serving a 99­year prison sentence for the killing. 
One of the largest of Sunday's tributes took place at Mason Temple in Memphis. where King gave his last speech the night before he was killed. 
"We have not overcome," Mayor W.W. Herenton, who became the city's first black elected mayor in 1991, told some 4,000 people. "We still have racism, bigotry, poverty, joblessness, homelessness and greed." 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who was with King at the Lorraine, said at All Saints Episcopal Church in Pasadena. Calif .. that 
Yugoslavia) in May (Res. 757); Libya (Res. 7 48); Somalia (Res. 
733) to "reduce the intensity of the factions fighting"; and in Liberia and Cambodia in November "in an endeavor to restore central authority and world order in a country in­volved in a civil war for two years," according to Ngobi. 
Most recently, on March 31st, the Security Council authorized the use of force in Bosnia. Ngobi said there is a possibility of using sanctions on both sides of the Bosnia conflict. 
if the nation had learned the lessons of the 1960s civil rights movement, the Los Angeles riots wouldn't have occurred. 
Americans still haven't learned the danger of "having large segments of society with no stake in it," he said. 
Later, Jackson told a rally in nearby Los Angeles that Presi­dent Clinton should have an aid program for U.S. cities like the one proposed for Russia. 
"The same plan to rebuild Moscow ... must apply to re­build America," he said. 
Jackson also called on Clinton to hold a town hall meeting in South Central Los Angeles be­fore the verdicts are reached in the city's racially charged fed­eral trial of four white officers accused of beating black mo­torist Rodney King. 
When the officers were ac­quitted of similar charges after a state trial last year the deadly Los Angeles riots followed, starting in South Central Los Angeles. 
At another tribute to King on Sunday, children in New York City were asked to commemo­rate his call for nonviolence by turning in their toy guns at a rally near the United Nations. 
"Those of us who love peace must organize as effectively as the war hawks," Mayor David Dinkins told the rally. 
Tony Jackson of Atlanta, who took part in the King cere­monies in Memphis, complained 
Geepers Guys ... 
it's Mimi's B-Day 
\ is that a cootie in your hair? 
Love Ya, K,K, &K 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT 
PRESENTS 
RICHARD F. PHELPS FORMER SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY 
"THE POLITICAL EDUCATION OF 'DIGGER' PHELPS: REFLECTIONS ON A YEAR IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION" 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
May your 22"d be as exciting as a good game 
Tw1st'er Becky and Holly 
that there has been little such organization since King's death. "The soul of our people died when he died," said Jackson, 
19. "The fight continued but not with the same spirit. I don't know if we'll ever be able to capture it again." 
On Aug. 28, 1963, King told marchers in Washington. D.C., of his hopes for the future. 
"I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character," he said. 
But a poll published Sunday found 52 percent of black re­spondents believe race relations in the United States are the same or worse than they were in 1968. Forty-five percent thought things had improved. Among whites, 42 percent felt things were the same or worse and 54 percent felt things were better. 
Sixty-six percent of blacks and 55 percent of whites said race relations were generally bad, while 27 percent of blacks and 38 percent of whites felt race relations were good. 
The New York Times-CBS News poll of 1,368 adults was taken March 28-31 and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points for whites and 6 per­centage points for blacks. since fewer blacks were interviewed. 


r-------~---------------------------~------------~--------------------~--------------------------------------~------~~------~~~----------~ 
Monday, April 5, 1993 The Observer 



JASA unites black women 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON News Writer 
The newly founded campus group, "Just a Sister Away"(JASA) is an alliance that brings African American women together to discuss their spirituality and aspects of their life that separate them from the rest of Notre Dame, according to Chandra Johnson, Notre Dame freshman and founder of JASA. 
"The purpose of JASA is for African American women to come together and share their spirituality, goals, communicate and establish a level of sister­hood," said Johnson. 
The University does a great job of recruiting minorities to attend NO, but does not have the capabilities established to assist them when they get here, said Johnson. In response to this, Johnson and a core group of 15 other students organized JASA as a group that would support her as an African American. 
The initial core group met over a month to establish the goals for JASA and to become spiritually connected. 
Another function of JASA is to be a program which reaches out to the outside community. Johnson herself is involved with the "Slice of Life" mentor program. 
"The topics are generally things that separate us as a race and as women," said Johnson. "There are disparities here at Notre Dame that are acute unless you find someone or something that gets you over the obstacles." 
Fundamentally the group is a spiritually based, yet the meet­ings end in a discussion of what is most important to the women, whether it be school­work or relationships with friends, according to Rochelle Stewart, an NO sophomore and core member of JASA. 
JASA has had Hispanic American women attend the general meetings and any member of the Notre Dame community is welcome to sit in on the meetings, yet the issues that are raised primarily con­cern African Americans, said Johnson. 
The goal is eventually to ad­mit African American males into the alliance once the group is more established, said John­son. 
In general the results of JASA have been nothing but positive. 
"The spiritual uplift that I get from JASA I could get from no other group on campus, seeing as it is about African American women," said Stewart. 
"Chandra has brought an element to campus -she has taken on the job to bring us to­gether,"said Stewart. "She's a mother, a friend and a sister when you need her." 
Since the founding of JASA the group as grown tremen­dously. There are now approx-
SMC examines larger activity fees 
By MEGAN BRUCHAS News Writer 
The Senior Officers at Saint Mary's will vote next Monday on the proposed student activity fee increase. 
The Officers will use a survey conducted by the Board of Gov­ernance (BOG) on March 25 as a way of measuring student support for the increase. 
Results of the survey show that 65 percent of the students support the increase BOG has asked for. 
The amount they will ask for is not yet decided, but the Board estimates that it could increase from $40 a year to $120 or $150 a year. If ap­proved the increase could pos­sibly begin the next fall semester. 
Students proposed in the sur­vey that the money go to the following areas: 
•Social events-67 percent 
•Clubs/Organizations -55.7 percent 
•Lectures-53 
percent 

•Class 
Boards -46 percent •Culture -30 percent •Celebration series -27.5 


percent 
"We would like to prevent students from having to pay for dances. For example, the all school dance (held last Thurs­day) cost $6,000. We have been saving for about two years, it would just be nicer to have the money up front for such events," said Tina Carrara, student body president. 
The new proposal may pro­vide movies and dances for free and allow more big name speakers to come talk to the school depending on the amount of increase that is ap­proved. 
"I support an increase, but I can't justify going from $40 a year to $120 to $150," said Kelly Kilmer, Le Mans Hall freshman. 
Many students feel that an in­crease is necessary yet wonder if such a huge increase should happen so fast. 
"If the student's activity fee reflected the quality, diversity and number of activities avail­able to Saint Mary's students, I could understand the increase, however I highly doubt that it will," said Julie Semrow, Le Mans Hall junior. 
"I would support the increase if it's clearly stated and spelled out where the money is going," said Jennifer Paplava, Le Mans Hall sophomore. 
Morrisey junior assaulted near off-campus party 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame junior Paul Stelzer was assaulted by unknown assailants Saturday morning at 1:36 a.m. in the rear of 1024 N. Notre Dame Avenue. He was treated and released from the St. Joseph's Medical Center for wounds received during the incident. 
Stelzer was attacked from behind and assaulted with 
hands, fists, and feet behind Holy Cross Care Services, Inc., a nursing home, according to Sergeant William Schmidt of the South Bend Police Department. 
Father Joe Ross, rector of Morrissey Hall, said Stelzer was assaulted by several people after leaving an off-campus party. 
The identity and number of assailants is unknown, said Schmidt. 

FLORALCO. YOU MISS THEM Inc. ON EASTER 
,., , __ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
..._,_... ·-232-3354 Mary B. Green Come in and Browse ' 
Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
~-~,---------~-­
~--------------------------------------~­
page 6 The Observer Monday, April 5, 1993 
Veltsin, Clinton agree on aid 
VANCOUVEH, British Columbia (AP) -Clinton and Yeltsin strode side by side into a convention center hall for the wrap-up to a summit domi­nated by Hussia's need for aid to nurture its reform move­ment. 
.Clinton said that for 45 years the two countries "pursued a deadly confrontation in nuclear arms. Now we can pursue a safe and steady cooperation." 
Said Yeltsin, "We are strug­gling against Communism." 
Clinton said he had asked America's allies "to come forth with their own individual initia­tives" to aid Hussia, and that he and Yeltsin had discussed a co­ordinated effort by the world's seven industrialized nations to help Hussia stabilize its econ­omy and its currency. 
Yeltsin invited Clinton to visit Hussia, a trip the president said last week he would like to make -assuming Hussian reforms survive the April 25 popular referendum. 
The referendum will pre­sumably clarify the political sit­uation in Russia, where Yeltsin last week narrowly survived an form efforts and defending them since. 

Clinton, after a successful de­but on .the international stage, must persuade Americans to support aid to Russia at a time of record budget deficits and stubborn unemployment at home. He said a healthy Rus­sian economy will mean new trade opportunities for Ameri­cans. 
The second and final day of talks focused on national secu­rity and foreign policy issues, following intense discussions Saturday on Russia's crumbling economy. 
Crowds shouting "Bill" and "Boris" cheered the leaders as they arrived at the downtown convention center for their 
impeachment attempt by the meeting and a news confer­legislature and has been ma­ence. Political instincts took neuvering against former over and both Clinton and Communist foes to preserve his Yeltsin walked across the street power. to shake hands. 
Clinton left no doubt about his hopes for the outcome of that A big chunk of the U.S. aid struggle. In the first few mo­program, $215 million, was ments at the microphone, he earmarked for dismantling referred to the "heroic deeds of Russian nuclear submarines, Boris Yeltsin and the Russian bombers and missiles and other people" in launching their re-nuclear safety programs. 
Clinton's world debut a success 

VANCOUVEH, British Columbia (AP) -All eyes were on President Clinton's debut in the world spotlight -unfamil­iar turf for a young president who campaigned almost exclu­sively on domestic issues. 
Despite Clinton's lack of for­eign policy experience, the first superpower summit to focus on economics instead of arms seemed a made-to-order show­case for the former Arkansas governor's strong suit -an easy command of facts and fig­ures. 
The early review from his summit partner, Boris Yeltsin: "Pretty original." 
Not only was Clinton out to prove his foreign-policy prowess to Americans, but to other world leaders as well. 
As usual, the two-day summit in this western Canadian sea­port was carefully chore­ographed by both sides to put the two leaders in the best light for domestic consumption in their respective countries. 
They went through all the ritual steps of summitry ­
REDBUD 
Fine Art Workshops 
2 week -3 credit courses in: 
ACTING CERAMICS PHOTOGRAPHY PRINTMAKING SCULPTURE 
May 17-29, 1993 
Sponsored by the Art Dept. of Saint Mary's College 
For information or 
praising each other, plunging into crowds, being seen about town, taking a reflective "walk in the woods," holding a final joint news conference. 
Despite the best-laid plans, though, summits can go sour. Hemember President Reagan's October 1986 summit with Mikhail Gorbachev in Reyk­javik, Iceland -nuclear arms talks broke off abruptly in a major misunderstanding be· tween the two leaders. 
This one didn't. 
And even though Yeltsin re­mains on extremely shaky polit· ical ground in his home and Clinton faces a daunting sales· manship job on the aid package in his, both leaders left the summit having achieved most of what each wanted. 

For Clinton, that meant being viewed in the eyes of Americans and U.S. allies as a serious leader in the world arena. 
"I think he's handled it ex­tremely well," said Washington attorney Robert Strauss, an elder of Clinton's Democratic Party who was George Bush's ambassador to Moscow. 
Both Clinton and Yeltsin "were two very impressive politicians," said the summit's host, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. 
Clinton came to office with no foreign experience whatsoever and a penchant for criticizing Bush for spending too much time on foreign policy. 
Ryan, 
Hope your last teenage year is as terrific as the first! 
HAPPY 19th 
BDAY 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Marc 

683-1959 

Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is accepting applications for its next three entering classes. (September 1993, January 1994, April 1994) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
• 
Approx. 2-3 years of college in alife or health science degree program. 

•A 
minimum G.P.A. of2.5. 

• 
Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 


Northwestern offers: 
• 
Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12: I. 

• 
Awell rounded education in Basic and Clinical Sciences, Diagnosis, X-ray, and Chiropractic. 

• 
Full accreditation by ~orth Central Association of Colleges and Schools and the Council on Chiropractic Education 


Application call: Call: 1-800-888-4777 or Write: Director of Admissions
(Afte~ 5-684-0285)
284-4655 or 284-4631 2501 West Eighty-Fourth Street • Minneapolis, M\ )5451-1 199 
....----------------------­
----------------------~---­
Monday, April 5, 1993 The Observer page7 
Need becomes criteria for college admission 
MEDFORD, Mass. (AP) -The American tradition that smart students who work hard can go to any college they desire is go­ing the way of the little red schoolhouse, educators say. 
More and more private uni­versities say they can no longer afford to ignore a prospective student's finances when making admissions decisions. 
At Tufts University, which sent out acceptance letters last week, officials denied admission this year to some otherwise­qualified students who could not afford the tuition and did not qualify for scarce financial aid. 
"It became apparent that, for a small number of these stu­dents, it would be an empty gesture," said David Cuttinow, director of admissions. 
Long proud of their need­blind admissions policies, even elite and Ivy League schools may soon close the door on qualified applicants who can't afford to pay. 
With the price of four years at a prestigious private college now exceeding $100,000, it is not only poor students who are being frozen out. 
"A number of schools have been doing their best to meet the need of all students regard­less of their circumstances, but this has been a dwindling number," said Richard Rosser, president of the National Asso­ciation of Independent Colleges and Universities. 
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which lost an antitrust case last year over its practice of sharing financial aid information with competing schools, argued it was only this cooperation that allowed the group to accept all qualified candidates without regard to income. 
"The only way we can main­tain need-blind admission is if there is not a wide-open bid­ding war," said MIT spokesman Ken Campbell. 
The same argument will be 
part of the university's appeal of the ruling, scheduled to be heard in May. 
One Ivy League school, Brown University, admits needy applicants on a first-come, first­served basis. The policy has been the subject of protests from students, who complain it has a disproportionate effect on qualified minorities. The university says its relatively small endowment limits the amount of aid it has available. 
Other schools that claim to have need-blind admission nonetheless deny financial aid to some of the students they've accepted, effectively preventing them from coming. 
Cornell University last week canceled a plan to ration finan­cial aid for next year's freshmen because the need was not as great as first predicted. Still, four percent of admitted stu­dents are on a waiting list for scholarships. 
Tufts ran out of financial aid last year, and 30 students were denied admission because there wasn't any money left. 
"Students should be admitted to the best college in which they can compete, predicated only on their academic ability, not their economic status. That's always been the tradition in this country," said John DiBiaggio, president at Tufts, where undergraduate tuition, room and board will cost $24,962 next year. "But that certainly is going to be endangered at many institutions." 
A survey of 3,500 high school seniors last month by the Na­tional Association of College Admissions Counselors found 29 percent hoped to go to a four-year, liberal arts college or university, but only 17 percent thought they would. The major reason: cost, which has eclipsed location, academic reputation and social life as the No. 1 reason for choosing a college. 
With Visa® you'll be accepted at more I 0 million places, nearly three times more than American Express. And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 
., 
GREEI<S &'i:LUB \. 
RAISE A COOL 
$1()()() 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. And aFREE 
IGLOO COOLER 
ifyou qualify. Call 
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, April 5, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor......... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Editor...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fang Accent Edltor................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor •••.Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ol the University ol Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ol the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through. letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sensitivity was
Bookstore censorship called for a foul 
questionable in 
Dear Editor: does of Ebony Side glossed over Yet, this same activity of eth­conceived programs as hiring Hecently I conducted an ex­and looked to as a positive nic groups meeting, discussing, quotas and Affirmative Action. 
news article
periment. With the annual expression of ancestral pride learning and excluding is seen Forcing a business to employ Bookstore Basketball Tourna­while Ivory Side is racist and as a valuable addition to the blacks simply because there 
Dear Editor: 
ment on the horizon, and the motivated by bigotry? Is it not University by nearly anyone aren't 'enough' blacks on its traditional pastime of creating just as noble to be proud of a with whom you speak. pay-roll is not only discrimina­
I noticed an irony in the
witty and meaningful names for European heritage as to find Let me pause here and ex­tory toward the Mexicans and 
March 31 front page story
each team at hand, I decided to pride in an African one? How plain that I am in no way, shape Asians and American Indians "Outlaw: Subtle prejudice only submit the title Ivory Side of the can anyone justify discrimina­or form a racist. I hold a firm and Whites who were denied small part of racism." The third Dome to the Board of tion under the guise of racial belief in the equality of all access to a job by virtue of their 
student speaker at the Zahm
Commissioners for their ap­equality? people and feel that, in any sit­lack of epidermal pigment. it forum was identified by theproval. I have found the same princi­uation, the best person should degrades the blacks who were 
Observer as AI Carrillo, an
It did not come as a great ple of racially motivated dis­step foreword and the rest hired; by somehow qualifying African-American student." AI,surprise to me when, upon crimination in much that is should step back, be that per­their employment and calling however, is Hispanic. lie doesglancing over the accepted done on this campus and across son male, female, black, white, attention to their race, of more closely resemble Charlienames for tournament, I no­the country. There are several green, purple or plaid. course, in the name of equality. 
Bright. an African-Americanticed that Ivory Side of the ethnic groups on this campus In addition, I disdain any form In the words of Abraham member of the panel, than heDome had been censored, no whose members speak proudly of discrimination, that is to say, Lincoln, "You cannot raise one resembles Dave Fuentes, an­doubt for reasons related to the of their heritage, and rightfully the denial of opportunity or group by tearing down another other hispanic student who,apparent racial insinuations of so. equality on the basis of and you cannot permanently like AI, spoke at the forum. 
the name, as I can find nothing If, however, a group were to something as trivial as the color help a group by doing for them else offensive or shocking about meet on campus to discuss of a person's skin. what they should do for them­If I saw the three together, Iit. white issues and experience It must be realized, though, selves." 
might guess that AI shared
The striking aspect of the white traditions and close its that the road to equality is not The true nature of equality is closer ethnic ties with Charliecensorship of' the name, how­doors to non-white students, paved with double-standards -completely overlooked every than with Dave. But if I were anever, came when I reached there would be an uproar. The discrimination against day. Over two hundred years Assistant News Editor (which Inumber 633 in my perusal of members would be labeled 'European-Americans' is no less ago, Thomas Jefferson penned was in high school), writing athis year's accepted entries -racists, white-supremacists and horrific and stomach turning the line "...all men are created story about a forum on race re­Ebony Side of the Dome. neo-nazis. than that against 'African­equal. .." and, despite the lack lations, I would probably verify This, again, did not surprise The group would soon be Americans' or 'Mexican-Amer­of inclusive language, those 
someone's ethnic affiliation
me greatly but it did solidify the banished from the campus and icans' or anyone. words will forever stand im­before I identified them withhypothesis upon which I en­would be deemed 'inconsistent This practice of super-impos­mutable. Every person who any racial group. 
tered into this experiment -with the ideals of a Catholic ing a double-standard on situa­walks the earth should be that is, the belief that reverse­university'. And the founders of tions involving racial groups, in looked at as equal by every That was the point of the fo­discrimination and a misun­such a Godless band of hea­my opinion, warps and retards other person; they should all be rum, really: to stop judgingderstanding of the true nature thens would grow to be hated the realm of racial equality. A given the same respect and op­people primarily on the basis of of racial equality are rampant by the racially 'educated' lead­blatant misunderstanding of the portunities to succeed and fail. 
appearance. Maybe John Lucasin today's society. ers anJ members of the cam­true meaning of equality has led The Bookstore Basketball did get Al's ethni'c backgroundMy entry of Ivory Side of the pus' legitimate ethnic groups. this nation into such ill-Commission has deemed me a 
straight, but the words got
Dome was obviously a reference racist because of the team scrambled between his note­to last year's very successful name I submitted. In truth, we book and the printer. At anyteam Ebony Side, and it took have a distinct case of the pot rate, it seems that we all neednothing from those players, I calling the kettle black, for until 
to work harder to be more
enjoyed watching them play all races are given the right to sensitive to one another.
and freely admit that if Ebony express themselves equally, no Side and Ivory Side were to one of us should believe that he meet on the court, my team is any more compassionate than 
Kyle Mead 
would miserably lose the 'battle the Aryan Hitler youth. 
Zahm Hall
of the dome'. 
March 31, 1993
Thll question that sticks in my William M. Sheahan mind, though, is why are the Flanner Hall racial insinuations and innuen-March 29, 1993 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I have never known any distress that an hour's reading did not relieve." 
Montesquieu 
I want my, I want my MTV. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 
Viewpoint
Monday, April 5, 1993 page 9 
Where is Abbott Leibowitz when we need him? 
We're lost in the colloquy and schisms as ways to beg ques­it's easy to remember Catholic tions. Ed Manier novelist Walker Percy's "last One version of the phe­A Left Jab self-help" book, Lost in the nomenon at Notre Dame sees a Cosmos. Percy. uncontroversial schism dividing Catholics of Thanatos Syndrome, was that Laetare medalist. humorously Vatican II, who think the future its flagrantly, flamingly, outra­mentioned Notre Dame a of the church requires open­geously reactionary author decade ago in an apocalyptic ness, reconciliation, and full would reduce a Coral Gables essay. participation of the laity, from Howard Hughes Medical Insti­
Given the opportunity to those who think we should have tute Conference on molecular leave a radioactive earth for a stopped with Vatican I. They explanations of human cogni­post-postmodern utopia on one that the the future lies with the tion to shambles. Thanatos of Jupiter's moons. the Abbott magisterium, fidelity to presents neuropsychology lead­Leibowitz. Jew and Catholic, a authority, resistance to ing to pedophilia and genocide, living symbol of the inextricable modernity, abhorrence of post­to eugenic insurance that only linkage of the two faiths -the modernity, and reverence for the highest "quality" human last Jiving priest, bishop, or tradition. Each faction sees it­beings go on living. My friend even Pope -decides to remain self as the saving remnant. Can Jimmy, neuroscientist. neu­on earth, because God has we pick up the ball? ropsychologist and Jew. loved promised to come at the end of Five years ago a neuro­the book. Tolle lege. Read it! I the world. chemist at Columbia Univer­could not have said "yes" to 
In the meantime, the Abbott sity's Center for Molecular anyone else. decides that his first act as Pope Neurobiology and Behavior Thought experiment: Walker "will be to revive the University called and said, "Have you read Percy writes a novel about of Notre Dame around a nu­The Thanatos Syndrome? We've Notre Dame, 1952-2052. What cleus of Jewish scientists ... got to invite Walker Percy to does he make of the Colloquy on from Israel. The Catholic our conference 'Are mental the Year 2000? of the clause "a Church is responsible for the processes reducible to preponderance of committed birth of science in the West, but molecular processes'!!" Jimmy Catholics on the faculty of Notre it got too rich. got distracted by Schwartz briefly described the Dame"? family quarrels. and dropped work of this famous southern Which faction sets the criteria the ball. which the Jews picked Catholic novelist and essayist; I for 'Catholic'? What is a pre­up." bought the complete works. ponderance? r\ quota? Enough 
Percy frequently wrote about Catholicism as ridden by schism: divided into factions, one whose highest holy day is the fourth of July, another reinterpreting scripture to fit the latest psychobabble. and a saving remnant. The saving remnant follows the "little way." "laborare est orare." to work is to pray. To work is to help each other understand the catastrophe that has befallen mankind and find our way past the perennial temptation to worship the self and, instead, to nurture what is beyond prize in other selves; locating itself as "wanderer, exile, worker, waiter. watcher." 
Heligious taxonomy is always local. Percy's taxonomy is cajun country, suburban. At univer­sities there are as many cret rump sessions? Enough to break a filibuster? a simple ma­jority? Where? In physics? philosophy? theology? drama? deconstruction? There are more types of Catholics than there are flavors at Baskin Robbins. Most of them more tolerant of reformed Christians, Jews. Muslims and Hindus than each other. 
The Colloquy for the Year 2000's early versions are ap­pearing concurrently with glossy shareholders' reports from many American corpora­tions. The key numbers in many of the latter documents are in parentheses, as in (loss), for 1992. The transitions from 1990-1991, and 1991-1992 are negative. 
The Wall Street Journal (3/10­3/17) has coined a new phrase, "the four horsemen of the workplace": global competition, technology, downsizing and the growth of the contingent work force. A contingent workforce with no health benefits, halved wages, no future. The contingent workforce includes highly trained professionals. 

I am frequently amazed by willing to learn, were given 
the misconceptions of some such a one-sided and 
Perspective
people on the subject of homo­stereotypical analysis. sexuality, and often I wonder I state preliminarily that I am leader was quite turned on in­why these people are so unwill­fully aware that some deed by this exercise, I wondering to educate themselves more homosexuals probably fit the if Dr. Reisman would agree with fully on the issue. However, a description Dr. Reisman. I reit­me that straight males might be recent campus lecture by Dr. erate: SOME. But are there not 
just a tad aroused watchingJudith Reisman has demon­also heterosexuals who bear their female counterparts
strated to me that the cause of these characteristics? More perform "Hello Dollies." 
the widespread fallacies is not importantly, are there not many During this exercise one liesalways the fault of the people homosexuals who bear none of on one's back and spreads andthemselves but those to whom them? As someone extensively closes one's legs several times,they look for education. involved with the gay sometimes even being asked toDr. Reisman's analysis of why community, my answer is an chant "Hello Dolly." The ROTChomosexuals should remain emphatic "yes." 
students here at Notre Dame
barred from the military Perhaps the most disturbing have done this particular exer­included the following justifica­part of Dr. Reisman's 
cise more than once in thistions: that homosexuals propositions is the last one 
semester and almost surely
"absolutely need therapy;" that mentioned above. Dr. Reisman's have also engaged in it in pastthere is an "acceptance among first mistake is in assuming that semesters. (I procured this in­homosexual groups that chil­a homosexual military leader formation from a female ROTCdren are viable sexual objects;" will necessarily be attracted to student, to whom l am not at­that homosexuals are "in pain;" everyone of the same sex. The tracted, by the way.) 
that substance abuse and AIDS presumption that gays are If we agree that men might
are prevalent among homo­attracted to everyone of the 
not to some extent satisfy theirsexuals; and that "(i)n the mili­same sex is quite pervasive in 
prurient interests in this
tary, you cannot have a leader the straight community, but that manner, what we are in effectof the same sex who is attracted adds nothing to its validity. The saying is that sexual perversionto you .... they might derive fact is, this is just as erroneous 
is more acceptable when it
pleasure from making you do as an assumption that comes in the heterosexual va­1,000 push ups and get a kick heterosexuals are drawn to ev­riety. Something about that justout of it-eryone of the opposite sex. This seems wrong to me.
While ROTC students were seems so plain and simple that 
Dr. Reisman also states
highly encouraged to attend the it obviates any explanation; broadly that "there is an accep­lecture (indeed, they comprised therefore I offer none. (But then 
tance among homosexual
most of the audience). it is again, neither did Dr. Reisman.) 
groups that children are viablecertainly imaginable that many Dr. Reisman then goes on to sexual objects." This makes meindividuals came purely on discuss the hypothetical case of 
wonder why my own experi­their own volition seeking a gay military leader asking 
ences with the gay communityunbiased information on this someone to do push-ups and have shown quite the oppositetimely issue. How disappointing "get(ting) a kick out of it." Ac­to be true. I again note thatit is to me that these people, cepting for the moment as true some homosexuals are sexuallywho took a key step by being that this hypothetical military 
permissive indeed. But the greater number appear to me to desire a stable lifelong rela­tionship just like heterosexuals (sit down if you must), and sin­gling out youths for pure sex is clearly not in accord with such a goal. 
Child abuse is an issue apart from homosexuality, which leads to my next point. I contend that child abusers suf­fer from some emotional disor­der and are in need of thera­peutic help. Of course, Dr. Reisman attributes like charac­teristics to anyone who happens to be gay and declares that all gays are "in pain." Funny. but I know plenty of homosexuals who lead a perfectly happy life, have never sought psychiatric help and manifest no need to do so. 
I also express amazement be­cause quite a few of my hetero­sexual friends have received counseling of some kind, and two of them were so much "in pain" that they attempted sui­cide -one succeeded. Likewise with the substance abuse and AIDS arguments. The one per­son with a drug problem that I have personally known (for which she was hospitalized) was heterosexual. 
If you include alcoholism I have known a multitude of people with such a problem. And while I have personally remained unaffected by the AIDS crisis, I had been assuming along with an over-
consultants, whose counterparts in the orient or in Ireland work for less. 
The ball is loose; who wants it? 
The best corporate reports on my coffee table give the investor a sense of an internal balance of contested vision of the corporate future. They provide assurance that the likelihood of a palace coup resulting in fragile. narrow specialization is small. But not one talks about more good jobs. The Colloquy's concurrent comment? A "tempered vision." Downsizing to match downsizing? An increased contingent workforce? More "visitors?" more full time adjuncts at $10K -, per annum? 
The precious fear that ques­tions concerning our Catholic character may not be raised a decade from now ignores our continuing "lace curtain" indif­ference to Notre Dame's ex­ploitation of a large segment of its own workforce. Our gradu­ates won't learn the importance of "solidarity" until they find themselves unemployed. 
Our Catholic character is deeply contested; there are significant rival visions con­cerning its content. To pretend that these divisions can be re­duced to quotas or bureaucratic procedures enforced at the top is innocuous nonsense. 
This is a University in deep need of living icons whose ex­amples inspire our work. Louis Putz, C.S.C., Ernest Sandeen, Matthew Fitzsimons are a few I can mention because I no longer see them regularly. We need to contest our Catholicism. not quantify it. The Colloquy for the Year 2000 is innocuous in 1993. Where is the Abbott Leibowitz when we need him? 
Edward Manier is a Professor in the Philosophy Department at the University of Notre Dame. 
omophobia 
whelming amount of empirical  
evidence that straight people  
can also contract the disease  
and, in fact, are MORE suscep­ 
tible to it than female homo­ -.­ 
sexuals.  
What hurts most of all,  
perhaps, is the fact that at least  
some people feel they have  
gained fully accurate informa­ 
tion from Dr. Reisman's lecture.  
While trying to rebut two such  
students' contentions, a friend  
of mine was told, "But she had manuals and everything!"  .-.  
Manuals, however, are not  
tantamount to real people,  
which is the source whereby I  
feel we can gain our most valu­ 
able insights.  
I can only hope that at least  
some of those who listened to  
this one-sided analysis will seek  
out a more balanced and  
impartial opinion. Likewise, I  
hope those to whom they look  
will try to perform their task in  
a more effective manner.  
Like other types of bigotry.  
homophobia hurts us all. and at  
least some people have taken the first step to lessen it in to­ - 
day's society by attempting to  
educate themselves. The edu­ 
cators have perhaps the most  
crucial role in the process. I  
fervently hope at least some of  
them perform that role in a less  
one-sided fashion than this ed­ 
ucator has done.  
Kirsten Dunne is currently in  
her first year at Notre Dame  
Law School.  


~----------­
Accent 
page 10 Monday, April 5, 1993 

eaceFes+ '93 
Campus bands 
to promote world harmony 
BY PATRICE MILLER 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
This Wednesday, Stepan Center will transform itself from the usual conference hall into the cite of the World Peace Action Group's PeaceFest '93. 
The PeaceFest is being held as a charity fundraiser for two local area charities, the !lope Rescue Mission, and Teens Inc. All of the money that is raised will be split equally and then donated by the World Peace Action Group to the charities. 
PeaceFest '93 will be highlighted by a concert. Five campus bands will perform. This year's groups are Grope for Luna, Mr. Head, Chisel, bother, and Severinsen. 
Colin Clary, from the band Severinsen, said the reason that their band is playing in Peacefest is, "it is for a good cause, plus I like to play." 
PeaceFest '93 is the culmination of a year's work by the World Peace Action Group. This is the only event that they sponsor. and they spend a year planning and preparing for it. 
The World Peace Action Group was started during the Gulf War and was supportive of non-military action, according to Elizabeth Trigg, a member of the group. They have continued now with a broader and more global view. 

Last year's PeaceFest was the first and they hope to continue the new PeaceFest tradition, Trigg said. 
The two charities, the Hope Rescue Mission and Teens, Inc., will both have representatives present at the concert. The representatives will be handing out literature and will answer questions about their organization for anyone in­terested. 
The Hope Rescue Mission is a local homeless shelter and is a non-profit organization. They take people in off of the street who are in need of shelter. They also provide other services such as. dentists, doctors, they help them find work, and they provide counseling, if needed. 
Teens Inc. is also a non-profit organization that has been helping the underprivileged since 1919. They work with children and sponsor Camp Ray Bird which is a summer camp for 
'World peace is something that we should all try for, and making a small difference is better than nothing at all.' 
-Usa Fortman Co-chair of PeaceFest '93 
teenagers with problems. Altt~r the summer camp they set up a pen pal program so the children are able to stay in touch with each other. 
The World Peace Action Group decided on The Hope Hescue Mission and Teens Inc. to receive the proceeds based on the fact that they have not received anything from any other campus organization recently. 
According to Lisa Fortman the co­chair of PeaceFest '93 said, "The World Peace Action Group is a campus group that was organized to promote peace. World peace is something that we should all try for, and making a small difference is better than nothing at all." 
"PeaceFest of 1993 should be fun and it's for a great cause", Fortman said. 
The cost for tickets is $2 and will only be sold at the door. The doors will open at 7:30 pm, but the first band will not begin to play until 8 pm. The festivities will last until 1 am. 

Rare Irish maps broaden students' horizons 
By KATIE LEHNER 
Accent Writer 
Irish maps and sea charts are featured in two collection now available in the Rare Books and Special Collections department of the Hesburgh Library. 
Thomas McGrath, together with his wife Betty, donated two collections. one of Irish sea charts and one of Irish maps, to the University of Notre Dame Libraries in 1991. Last Monday, McGrath visited the University and spoke on "The Joy of the Chase: Collecting Old Irish Maps." 
"Like novels, maps are exciting, image producing segments of our culture," said McGrath during the speech. 
McGrath went on to compare his fascination for the maps for a chase. "To have a chase you need both a hunter and his quarry. I was 
'To have a chase, you need 
both a hunter and his quarry.' -Thomas McGrath 
the happy hunter who so enjoyed chasing 
down his quarry of old Irish maps," McGrath 
said. 
McGrath attended Notre Dame for one year while waiting to be called up for active duty in 
-
the United States Navy. In spring of 1945, he left Notre Dame in order to go through Navy boot camp up at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. lie then entered the United States Naval Academy from which he graduated in 1950 to serve during the next four years as an officer in the Atlantic and Pacific fleets. It was during summer training cruises that McGrath first began gathering his collections of old maps and sea charts. He originally would try buying maps from all the various 
countries he visited, but found that it was more financially sound to limit himself to maps and sea charts which showed Ireland standing alone, not as part of Great Britain or of Europe. 
McGrath said he chose Ireland because "I am of Irish blood. I studied at Notre Dame, and Ireland was unique in that it remained for centuries the westernmost land known to the ancients." 
The maps which have been donated to the University date from 1567 to the mid 1700's and were given in memory of Mrs. McGrath's father, David Butler, "a native Irishman who . loved this school." The twelve sea charts of Ireland date from 1584 to 1759 and were donated in memory of McGrath's parents, Thomas and Helen McGrath. 
The collections include maps made by some of the greatest map makers of all time, includ­ing Gerard Mercator, Benedetto Bordone and John Speed. 
In addition to their geographical character. the maps also hold a whole collection of beautiful artwork. Seas were full of monsters and sailing vessels, and land was complete with little castles or towns drawn in. "The illustrations constitute material as rich for teaching and research as the geography of the maps themselves," said Robert Burns, profe 
"These early printed maps were far more richly illustrated than the geographical and road maps familiar to us today," said Notre Dame rare book librarian Laura Fuderer. "Most of them have been hand-colored and have engraved pictures of coats of armor, ocean animals, tall ships, and other objects." 
One may see some of the old maps and sea charts hanging in the reading room of the Rare Books and Special Collections de­partment of the library. The department is located on the first floor of Hesburgh library. For more information, call rare books librarian Laura Fuderer at 1-5610. 

--~----------------.._------------------------------~~-­
-----------~----------~------------­
onday, April 5, 1993 The Observer page 11 

OOKSTORE RESULTS Fisher, Smith prepared for title game 
Friday's Games M()e and Jon def. Cardinal Fung NEW ORLEANS (AP) -Some was an assistant under Bill quently. This is his ninth trip to 4 Girls who can score and and theSpanish, 21-5. 
years ago, when Steve Fisher Frieder at Michigan. When the Final Four, second only to arten def. The Revenge of the The· five Elvises def. Les was coaching high school bas­Frieder announced on the eve John Wooden's 12. Tonight's
uburbans, 21-1 chevalieres du ciel. 21-17. 
ketball in Chicago, his sister-in­of the NCAA tournament that title game is his fifth, and he isWilt Chamberlain and 4 guys Kevin, Ray, and 3 other law whipped out a Oija board to he would be leaving for Arizona the only coach to take a team toho get a lot of P.T. def. Some squirrels looking for a nut def. 
do a little fortune telling. State, he was told not to bother the championship game in foureasy girls team, 21-10 On the rebound, passin'the ball "She said I would win a na­waiting around and Fisher took different decades. 
The Leftovers def. 3 Senior around. and gettin' down with tional championship as a col­the Wolverines on a magical Still, Smith often hears the
islackers and their antithesis, the skinny mates. 21-14. 1-7. No pain def. 2B Tools, 21-8. 
lege coach," ride to the national champi­whispers. He's only won once, We can beat Detroit Mercy Savvy we ain't def. Yankee pot 
Fisher said. onship. in 1982 when freshman ef. 2 wookies, 2 cheeseheads, roast: 22-20. ­
"We all That tied him with North Michael Jordan nailed a jump nd a virgin, 21-9. Mo' better ribs def; The 
laughed." Carolina's Dean Smith, tonight's shot in the final seconds to beat Aroused dogs def. Deliver• boneheads, 21-12. .· . . . . .. 
Soon, it got opponent, for titles -no small Georgetown 63-62. 
nee, 21·11. Movement is painful de.f. 
even funnier. achievement since Smith has ''I'm glad we had one cham­Four and a halfman def. Who's your daddym 2hl~. 
"She said it been at this business for 32 pionship," Smith said, reflecting ticky fingers ll. 21-7. Teain Jonny Cat def. 5. Cb1¢ks 
would be at years with more NCAA on some of the disappoint­
Pontius Pilate and the 4 Nail who can palin balls. 21"3. 
Northwestern," Dean Smith tournament victories -54 -ments. "And that one wasn't arivers def. Thrown together at We're just not that good def. 4 
the coach said. than anyone in history. Now sure thing.
ast minute, 21-6 real men and a Ferri, 21-19. 
"Then we laughed harder." Fisher has Michigan back in the "How many coaches have won5 Guys who should've played 4 Social drinkers and the Irish 
an idiot and LOST my keychain conversational English abroad. Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug western suburbs. Open to ideas. **** SNOW SKIS **** city; summers by the beach; your ewhere on campus Sunday Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000-@ 614-237-1370 for info. Monica 708-961-3533 wk: 708-**** SNOW SKIS **** baby rocked to sleep by a cozy . It is a silver hook key chain $4,000+ per month. Many provide 850-4333 205 em Volkl Rentigers (GS) fireplace in winter, and by ocean 
2 GM keys, 3 dorm keys. and a room & board + other benefits! No w/ Marker M48 Bindings. waves in summer. Art, music, the 
alarm. I found call 4-2934. previous training or teaching SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 Perfect Condition. $350 or best education, endless love. Call certificate required. For International bdrms, close to campus, safe IMMEDIATE occupancy , best offer. Call KJ @ 273-2958 Franny or Stephen collect. Employment program, call the neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all 1 bdrm apt. incl. walk thru bath (212)369-2597. 
Pair of gold clip-on earrings International Employment Group: utilities. Call Monica and closet, garage, washer 81 Kawasaki KZ440 een Zahm and St. Mary's Lake (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. 232-2794. and dryer_ 273-9392 New clutch,brakes,battery. ch (by the boathouse) on Friday Runs great. $350 or best. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Need a ride to Norfolk, VA Summer Lease SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM 288-1027 Tom in LaFortune Student Center ALSO: I left my area for Easter break. Will help pay Castle Point MATTERHORN HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. QUALITY COPIES ee mug in the upstairs bathroom lor gas. Call R.J. or John GREAT RATES! AVAIL as low as 31t each It's grey with a blue Call Christina at x4241 271-2908 NOW,SUMMER & FALL272-6306 OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
TICKETS
and it's got my name on the Both are VERY important! If anyone is planning on working in NO Apts now signing leases at a Furnished four bedroom OAKHILL Call Bridget at X2721 Hilton Head this summer and needs very comfortable rate_ Can't beat CONDO for summer rental. Call I have a huge family & they all 
roommates to help pay lor rent, call the location or the price Amy or Doug at 614-237-1370 for helped pay for NO_ Please! I need 
TAU TH[ KHS. 
Kelly @4121. Call us 232-8256 info_ · extra grad tix!! Deanna @2476 NO: Silver and mother-of­
CAll ACAB. 

rt earring between C.S.C. to SUBLEASE your house/apt. for 3 BDRM. HOUSE, FULL SUMMER SUBLET-Turtle PLEASE!!! Seigfreid. Call Bill at SUMMER:3-5 people,pref. near BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS. Creek townhouse. Need Grad Tix 
07. campus-call Samx4842 FROM NO_ 234-1883. Mike 277 9139 Brian 273-0967 
TAU ASTANO. 
.· ..
---_, 

Irish take sixth at Indiana lntercollegi·ate 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team competed this weekend in the Indiana lntercollegiates held in Indianapolis. The Irish finished sixth in the meet. 
The surprise performance for the Irish was by Nathan Knuth who won the 10,000 meter run with a time of 31:18.48. This was Knuth's first competition in a Notre Dame uniform. Nathan is a recent transfer student who has just recovered from an injury. 
Derek Martisus finished fifth in the 10,000 meter with a time of 31:46.28. · 
Other performances of note for Notre Dame included John Cowan and Derek Seiling fin­ishing one, two in the 3000 me­ter steeple chase with times of 
9:10.99 and 9:17.34 respec­tively. Irish harrier Mike Smedley finished fifth in this race with a time of 9:30.3. In the 800 meters Brian McQuaid and Andy Hussbaum finished eighth and ninth with times of 
1:55.7 and 1:55.8 respectively. Joe Royer finished in 11th place 
The Observer/Macy Heuckel 
IDon't Drink and Drivel 
Irish head coach Pat Murphy and senior Eric Danapilis have a 
conference on the mound. 
Thomism 
at Notre Dame • Fall, 1993 
The philosophy department at Notre Dame is nationally ranked and world class. Among other things, it has, over the years, been noted for its oontributions to interpreting and teaching the thought of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
It is not often clear what courses among the many excellent offerings in philosophy are designed to serve that interest. A brochure providing descriptions ofthe Fall courses which are Thomistic in inspiration has been mailed to Freshmen and Sophomores. 
Ifyou have not received the brochure, ask for one at either the Philosophy Department, 337 O'Schaughnessy or the Jacques Maritain Center, 714 Hesburgh Library. 
with a time of 1:56.5. 
In the 5000 meter, freshman Joe Dunlop finished third with a time of 14:59.13. Jack Mc­Mullen finished the race in sev­enth place with a time of 
15:10.19. In the 400 meter hurdles Chris Lilly finished fifth with a time of 55.1. 
In field events, Tom Mescall fmished eighth in the high jump with a height of 6'6.75" and Todd Johnson finished ninth with the same height. In the discus John Smerek and Stuart Tyner finished 12th and 13th with throws of 147' 11" apd 147'8" respectively. In the long jump Tom Mescall came in fifth place with a leap of 22'05" and Ray Holder placed eighth with a distance of 21'8. 75". In the shot put, Brian Kubicki finished lOth with a throw of 14.7 meters and Mike Fliesch fin­ished 12th with a throw of 
14.15 meters. 
"We're having problems putting two weekends to­gether," said field events coach Scott Winsor, "But it's nothing to worry about. It's early in the season." 

Subs • Salads • Pizza 
Ro:~1¥B~g~cials For April 
(Buy one 6" Sub, Get 2nd One Free) Tues-Double Punch Day Wed-Any cold sub and med. drink 
Only $2~ Thurs-$100 off any Combo Meal ( 6" Bigger Bite Sub, Med. Drink, Chips) Fri-Free Bag of Chips with purchase of 
6" sub and med. drink Sat-$1QQ off on any foot--long sub Sun-Double Meal Deal -Two Foot--long 
Subs, Two Med. Drinks, Two Bags of Chips-Only $899 
Located at Ironwood Plaza North 
S.R. 23 & Ironwood (near Martin's) (219) 273, 2234 
Fax: (219) 273, 2445 
Monday, April 5, 1993 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
quick start of him and his classmates. "The freshman class is pretty relaxed out there," he said. 
Danapilis, Paul Failla, Eddie Hartwell and Robbie Kent weren't far behind with two hits each. 
The Irish scored runs in every inning except the fifth while Buolldogs only scored one r after the second inning. Pitche Ryan Fox took the loss fo Butler. 
In the second game, te captain Hartwell jumpsta the Irish with a grand slam the second inning which Notre Dame all the r would need in the 18-3 
Hartwell's home run was fourth of the season and one three hits for the left fielder the game. Kent also had hits in the game while bot Failla and Danapilis extend thier hitting streaks to 1 games. Failla had two hit including a home run an Danapilis' pair of hits inclu a double and drove in runs. 
Topham, Richards and Bo Usanti each had a double and single. 
David Sinnes (2-1) earned win on the mound for the allowing one run in six '""'"a• while striking out two. Both Kraus and A.J. Jones saw as relievers in the contest Phillip Dieter took the loss the 
HOW TO CHOOSE AN ARTS AND LETTERS MAJOR: 
Options, Opinions, and Opportunities 
Tuesday, April 6 6:30-7:30 p.m. in Rm. 117 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Associate Dean Dian Murra , Colle e Fellow Frank Bonello 

Monda~Aprll5, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Irish earning recognition 

By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
Now that Notre Dame's lacrosse team {8-0) has solidly secured their position in the United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association's (USILA) coaches' poll, the question arises as to whether the Irish are commanding enough re­spect from their peers in the lacrosse community. 
By arriving in the top 20 this season, and garnering their highest-ever ranking at No. 12 
his week, the Irish have forced 
he rest of the lacrosse world 
o take notice of their lacrosse rogram. 

efinitely for 
eal, Notre arne has a 
i g -t i m e 
r o g r a m 
ere," said
eorgetown oach Dave rick, who is a Rafik oting member f the USILA ·1 
oil. Getting the roper amount 
f respect
oming out of he Midwest egion that has lways been i g h t I y egarded is a 
roblem the 
ish have had 
battle, 
pecially this 

ason as they 
ave burst 
on the scene 
ith their 
rongest team 
school story. "Playing in 
2 3 
224A 01 #4577 ZZ4B 01 #4578 426F 01 #4581 519 01 #5059 598A 01 #4856 403 01 #4076 436 01 #4652 445 01 #4568 480 01 #3872 599 01 #1598 
USILA. 
respect," noted 
>enior goalie Chris Parent. 
Lacrosse 
The next step The Observer/Kyle Kusek Randy Colley continued his offensive prowess Saturday against Georgetown, collecting four goals and one
Ra.. ·n·ka·n·gs········ for the Irish is 
assist.
to beat a 
e're constantly fighting ainst," said sophomore 
alie Ryan Jewell. 
The fact that the Irish do not ay a schedule loaded with top opponents also works ainst them because the pre­ominant powerhouses of crosse like North Carolina, yracuse, and Brown are laying one another week in nd week out, whereas the ish have to play against ams from the Midwest region f play in order to earn the idwest bid to the NCAA 
tournament. 
"Th·e east coast schools all have very tough schedules, not to say we don't have one, but the Midwestern teams are tra­ditionally considered weaker by the polls," said sophomore midfielder Kevin Lynyak. 
For that reason, a lot of the players on the team believe the rankings are a fair representa­tion of where the Irish stand in relation to the rest of the coun­try. 
"I think our ranking is an ac­curate assessment. You're constantly proving your worth, but I think our victory over Ge­orgetown will get the attention of a lot of people and earn our 
"They are,....----------~-" program some 
10 team, after Tearti 1993 Record Points defeating a top-top-Lax 
North Carolina <9-0 Princeton 3-1 Syrac~se 3-2 
JohnsHopkins 4_
3 2 5 Loyola(MD) 3-2 6 Brown · 3-1 7 Virginia 5-2 8 Navy 5-1 D k
9 6_2 
u e ·· _.
51
10 Army 11 Townson St. 2·2 
12 Notre Dame 8·0 
13 Maryland 1-3 
_
14 31
Rutgers 15 Ma~saqh~etts 1-2 16 Yale 4-2 17 Hofstra 2-1 18 Georgetown 4-2 
Penn St. 2_
19 3 
e Midwest .__2_0~D_e_le_w-:-:-a-re-:--::::-:-____ 2 1-; attention.
-::·:::-3~;-;'3::-:'some 
.gion attaches a stigma that Observer/Chris Mullins Looking at it 
objectively, you'd have to say that Midwest lacrosse has arrived," Coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame lacrosse has def­initely made an impact on the college lacrosse scene. Their only job is to keep winning and keep reiterating to the lacrosse world that they are deserving of their ranl:ing. 
They should continue to move up in the poll as others fall and the Irish continue to win, regardless of whether 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
they beat Duke or Butler. 
Junior attacker Robbie Snyder was a catalyst for the Irish. 
15 team for the 180 tirst time ever. 
continued from page 16 
171 Their chance 
Corrigan as a lot of different
148 comes this 
players stepped up and made
146 Friday when 
they take on significant contributions to the 143 No. 9 Duke in team. In the first half alone, 136 Durham, N.C., five different players scored, 127 and if they win while three others assisted. 117 that one, they "It was a great team perfor­
will definitely mance, as every person stepped 
110 
make their up. A lot of people played and
100 
I a c r o s s e a lot of people played well," 88 b r e t h r e n 78 ·recognize that 64 the Irish are a 
· ····team to be
55 
reckoned with 52 and accorded 46 the proper 40 recognition. 36 "I'd like to 
think that we
14 
are grabbing 

CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS IQ DART BOOK LAW LAW MARK
COURSES ADDED 
MARK MARK

488 01 #5125 • Dir Research in Bioarchaeology; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required MARK
119L 07 #51 23 • General Chemistry I Laboratory; I cr. hr.; T 3:30 4:20; also meets T 4:20-06: 15; cross-listed with 
MECHEM 117L-07 ME
232 01 #5IZ8 · Women: Alt Phil. Perspectives; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10­
ME
11 :00; Permission Required; cross-listed with PHIL 232-01 
MUSATH 104 04 #5124 · Finite Mathematics; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 9:05-9:55 BA 600 01 #5122 · Interpersonal Communications; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 8:00­PHIL9:15; MBA majors only PHIL402 01 #5119 • Medieval Spanish Literature; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 2:45-4:00; ROFRcross-listed with ROSP 401-01 

ROFR
221 01 #51 26 • Philosophy of Human Nature; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 2:45-4:00 
ROFR
221 02 #5127 • Philosophy of Human Nature; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 4:15-5:30 
ROFR ROFR
CHANGES 
ROSP ROSP575 01 #4950 • should be 3 credit hours 
soc
343 01 #4720 • change time to: MWF 1:15-2:05 422 01 #3519 • changedays/timeto: TH9:30-10:45 
soc
223 01 #1769 -ECON ZZ3T corequisite 223T all ECON 223 corequisite 
THEO
• 
BA students only through 3rd period; then open to all 


THEO
• 
BA students only through 3rd period; then open to all 

THEO
• 
Permission Required 

• 
remove prerequisite 

• 
remove prerequisite 

• 
change days/time to: MW 12:50-2:05 

ARST
• 
change prerequisite to: "GOVf 141 or341" 

EE
• 
remove "Permission Required" 


GOVf
• 
change prerequisite to: "GOVf 140 or 340" 

HIST
• 
Graduate students only 

Ml 
Hexamer said. 
In the second quarter, the Hoyas again got the first score, but the Irish would not quit as Mahoney netted two consecu­tive man-up opportunities, tak­ing feeds from midfielders Rob Tobin and Willie Sutton, to put the Irish ahead 7-4. 
Again Georgetown responded with a goal of their own, but Colley and sophomore mid­fielder Kevin Lynyak scored to push the lead to 9-5, before the Hoyas added another goal right before halftime to make the score 9-6. 
In the first half, the Irish ef­fectively neutralized the big­play capabilities of Hoya stand­out Chris Remington as sophomore Mike Iorio, Notre Dame's best defender, had him blanketed. Sophomore goalie Ryan Jewell also played effec­tively, turning away numerous Hoya opportunities that were created by slick off-ball cuts by their midfielders. 
"The defense played well by sliding and backing up each other all afternoon against middies that got open a lot and attackers that were good crease players," said Jewell. 
The second half was marked by tough, aggressive play by both teams at midfield as the middies battled for ground balls and rode hard, refusing to al­low either team to easily main­tain possession. The game saw numerous hard hits as both de­fenses did all they could to keep the ball out of their offensive 
596 696 350 350 370 
370 
334L 438 439 203 
302 448 241 241 241 241 241A 515 583 441 
541 
255 603 644 
311S 498J 463 604 604 01 #2233 • Permission Required 
01 #0974 • Masters of Law students only 
01 #2284 • MARK 231 prerequisite 
02 #2285 • MARK 231 prerequisite 
01 #2286 • change prerequisite to: MARK 231, BA 230 and MGT240 
02 #ZZ87 · change prerequisite to: MARK 231, BA 230 and MGT240 
01 #0165 • ME 334 pre/corequisire 
01 #4875 • ME 334 and (ME 327 or CHEG 327) prerequisite 
01 #2434 • ME 334 and (ME 327 or CHEG 327) prerequisite 
01 #2516 • change days/time to: MF 12:05-1:15; also meets: H 6:30-8:30 
01 #0086 • change days/time to: TH 9:30-10:45 
01 #4769 • change time to: TH 1:15-2:30 
01 #3246 • Permission Required 
02 #3247 • Permission Required 
03 #3248 • Permission Required 
04 #3249 • Permission Required 
01 #4746 • Permission Required 
01 #()732 • change day to: M 1:15-4:00 
01 #4737 • change day to: W 1:15-4:00 
01 #4801 • remove "Permission Required"; add: SOC 102 prerequisite & Majors only 
01 #3935 • remove prerequisite and "Majors only restriction; add: 
"Permission Required" all THEO 100,195, 200or201 prerequisite 01 #1122 • changetimeto: Tl:l5-3:45 01 #()691 • change time to: H 1:15-3:45 
CQURS:ES CA~CELLED 
01  #4986  PHIL  410  01  
01  #4912  PHIL  222  01  
01  #0817  PSY  361  01  
01  #3691  THEO  200  03  
01  #4708  

#4767 #3662 #3176 #1177 
end of play. 
In the third quarter, neither team scored until halfway through when junior midfielder Billy Ahmuty's low shot from the top of the box made it 10-6 in favor of the Irish. 
Georgetown, however, re­fused to go away, as Mike Boyle tallied two scores around a Randy Colley goal, to make it 11-8 after three quarters. 
But Corrigan's plan for run­ning a lot of people in and out of the lineup paid off as the Irish were fresh for the final quarter, a quarter in which the Hoyas turned up the intensity and pressure on the Irish de­fense. 
"They were really aggressive, especially on ground balls, try­ing to keep the ball in our end. They pressured all over the field with a 10-man ride, and tried to turn the game into an unorganized one in which their middies could create a lot of chances," Jewell said. 
But the Irish responded like a top-ranked team by winning more ground balls in the quar­ter, thus securing more pos­sessions. But the Hoyas refused to quit, and after Doug Madden scored with six minutes remaining, Georgetown was within two, 12-10. 
Colley answered the Hoya challenge with a goal 51 sec­onds later that all but secured the Irish victory, and the Irish defense wrapped up the victory with a suffocating performance that denied the Hoyas the op­portunity to score again. 
In summing up the team's performance, junior midfielder Willie Sutton said, "A lot of dif­ferent guys played well out there today, we came out and played 60 minutes of steady lacrosse." 
Broski 
continued from page 16 
ery. 
"We have to move on," said Rugby Club president Mark Babka. "He always gave 100 percent and he would want us 
to do the same.  We can't let  
up."  
Only  close  family  and  

friends have been able to visit Broski in the hospital, where he will remain in intensive care for an indefinite period. 
Despite his condition he re­mains in good spirits. 
"We finished the games after he was injured," Knowl­ton said, "and when (Rugby coach Jay Nash) saw him at the hospital, one of the first things Broski asked was if we won." 
They did, 10-8 and 8-7. But the biggest victory has yet to be won . 
. -~---··-·----------------------.-:.. .---~------_.--------­
page 14 The Observer Monday, April 5, 1993 
SMC softball splits a pair 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team opened regular season play this weekend by splitting a double-header with North CentraJ College. 
The Belles had complete control of game offensively and defensively, as they easily defeated the Cardinals, 7-1. 
After giving up one run in the first inning, freshman pitcher Michelle Umb limited the Cardinals to only seven hits. 
"I was a little nervous and anxious for my first game. but once we got through the order. 1 got a feel for the hitters and felt stronger as the game went on," she said. 
Coach Don Cromer was pleased with Limb's perfor­mance. 
"Michelle pitched a real good first game," he said. "Her placement is improving and she is getting stronger each game." 
Umb had a lot of help from the rest of the defense, who eliminated many of the errors that had been present going into the games. 
"We eHminated a lot of the mental errors," said Cromer. "Everyone knew where to go, but there were still some times when we were not thinking." 
A four run seventh inning by the Cardinals was the deciding factor in the 9-6 defeat of the Belles In game two. The Belles attempted a come back in their half of the inning but stopped with one run, leaving three stranded on base. 
"We had a few errors in the game, but they also had some timely hits and we missed some opportunities," explained Cromer. 
Hitting was a strength in both games for the Belles who out hit the Cardinals 11­7 in the first game and 11-9 in the second. Amy Misch reached base seven times in nine attempts and scored three runs, while Seanne Patrick hit two triples and Shannon Heise contributed three RBis and four runs. 
Cromer was optimistic after Sunday's performance. 
"The freshmen are getting stronger each game and I think that we'll be tough this year," he said. 
Limb agreed, adding "We're excited about this year. Everyone feels comfortable playing together, especially after Florida and now our first game." 
The Belles will use this experience tomorrow as they travel to Concordia College. 
TRANSLATORS 
Earn extra money as contract transla­tor In growing segment of our commu­nications business. Call now for details and Information packet. Zoss Com­munications, Inc. 2.19-288-1422. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
BORN YESTERDAY lPG) 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
POINT OF No RETURN (R) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
Women's tennis smashes Texas A&M 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
After beating Texas A & M Friday afternoon at the Eck Pavilion, the Notre Dame women's tennis team may have had a desire to trade their tennis racquets in for brooms. That's because the win over the Aggies gave the Irish a seven-game sweep in their two week homestand, pushing the 23rd-ranked Irish's dual match record to 13-6. 
Notre Dame's thumping of Texas A & M was the latest in a string of one-sided victories. During their home streak the Irish have outscored their opponents 57-5. In Friday's match against the Aggies, the Irish did not drop a set winning 9-0. 
At number-three singles, Notre Dame junior Christy Faustmann won her twelfth match of the last fourteen, upending A & M's Wilson Pate. Faustmann cruised through the first set 6-2, then fought ofT a Pate rally and chugged to a 7-6 (8-6) second set victory. 
"I'm usually a slow starter," Faustmaun admitted, "and I've been working on trying to get rid of that. Today, though, it was kind of opposite. I came on strong and faltered a little bit in the second set." 
"In the first set I was really focused and I set up my shots well, but in the second set she [Patel came on a little bit." 
Faustmann and Pate each held serve 
throughout the second set to reach a 6-6 tie. In the tiebreaker, Faustmann got ahead early 2-1, then stumbled to a 2-4 deficit before rallying to the 8-6 win. 
"Those last few points were all mental," she said. "I played a few good, aggressive points and was able to pull it ofT." 
While Faustmann dismantled Pate at number three, freshman Wendy Crabtree was busy claiming her second upset of the week, a solid 6-3, 6-4 win over 47th­ranked Janine Burton-Durham. Crabtree is currently ranked 78th by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association. 
"Wendy did a great job of keeping the pressure on," said assisatant coach Maureen McNamara. "She served well and made her [Burton-Durham] do a lot of moving from side to side." 
The win pushes Crabtree's season singles record to 20-8, including a 10-5 mark at number one. 
"Wendy just has so much composure for a freshman," said McNamara. "As she gets more experience it shows even more." 
Crabtree combined with junior Lisa Tholen at number-one doubles to claim yet another upset. The unranked duo breezed past A & M's 28th-ranked team of Burton­Durham and Julie Blackburn 6-2, 6-0. 
Tholen and Crabtree had not played enough matches together to qualify for the last ITA rankings, but should represent the Irish in the April 6 release. 



With Visa® you're accepted at more than I 0 million places around the world, nearly three times more than American Express. Just in case you ever come up a little short. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 
L._----------------------------------------·"'VisaUS.A.Inc.1993--­
~--­
Today 
Monday, Apri15, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER 
1 AC.R,££. If'S LiKE 
W£'Vf:. fORG.OTTE:N H-ow, 2000 Yf:ilR.S Alrr?, 
11-1{; EAST'!; R BUNNY Sllc.RlFICED HIS LIFf. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
T\\E TI L\ST1~6S SP..'i \1-\IS ti\O'll£. \\~'S "M)JLT S\"1\.l~llOI-\S: 'ti\-1/I.T 1\RE 
P,\)ULT SlTUt\TIOI>IS .~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Leveled, in Leeds 
t Certain dorsal bones 28 Movie maker Spike
1 He loves: Lat. 29 Cry in Caen 
tO Pep 
t3 Profits 
31 Honey of a drink 
t5 Pedestal: Sp. 33 Port protection 
t8 Ending for 34Hewrote elephant "Invisible Man" 
t7 Count Basie 38 Regretful one was one 
39 "-have they 
t81ntertwines 
of ills to come": 20 Stitch birds T. Gray 21 Poet Hughes 40 Bacheller's -and I"
22-loss (befuddled) 42 Legal wrongs 23Dowel 
44 Concern of 24 Porter's "-Morgan Got Something" Freeman, e.g. 25Winged 45 Moola 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~;:+.:+.=:+:'+=+:-B 

\ 
~ 
PRoBAI3L'{ T\\\1'\GS LW£ 60\1'-\() TO WORK, I'A'il~G BILLS /\~0 TA:l(ES, 1/>.l<.lt-IG RE<s~~S\\51l\T1ES ... 
JAY HOSLER 

BILL WATIERSON 
'N()\'J, 11-\t.'i ~~ 
KID /I.RO\lt-\0 W\\tl--1 \1-\t.'i ~'! "FOR 1"1"\\JRt. "\l'iJI'tJKt.s·· 
37 Society editor's word 
40Give 
41 Like some rural roads 
43 Kind of apple 
45 Take exception 
48 She wrote "Back Street" 
I'JE N.t.'4t.R lJ\'1\lt.I<.'S\00\) 1-\ow T\-10SE ~<W\ES ~t>.~£. (>..Wi \J\<J~E'I. 
so Stream near Salerno 
51 Composer­conductor Calloway 
52Wargod 
55 Barrier for Z. Garrison 56 Forage plant 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Scene from "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Ed" 
.. 
\ 
47 Freedom Riders' transport 
48 U.S.-Can. -Canals 4tBecomes zealous 51 Yokums' creator 53 Bedding part 54 Dahl of film 57 Western athlete 58 Gin variety 5t Safari figure 60 Incarnadine 81 Camper's need 82 Orgs. of sorts 
DOWN 
t Czech unit of length 2Galba's greeting 3 Spanish flagship 4 "Native Son" author 5Jai­6 Poplars 7 Corporate boards, e.g. 8 Part of N.A.A.C.P. t Pungent to Rectitude tt Stung by Cupid 12 Middle, in law 14 Blvds.' kin 
-:t:+.:+.±+-+::-&F--1 19 Fuller's 1982 Pulitzer drama 
22 Medicinal herb 23 Memorable actor-singer 25 P.M.'s 
opposites 28 Rented again 27 Apollo's 
birthplace 30 Stargazers' gp. 32 Pacino and 
Smith 35 Nosy ones 38 European 
capital 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
•
lntePested in.•. •••WPiting1 •••Photogpaphy1 
•.•GPaphic Design? Call The ObsePveP to join next yeaP's stall. 
~--------------------.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports 
page 16 
Monday, April 5, 1993 
Lacrosse out plays Georgetown, 13-10 

Noonan scored the game's first goal two minutes into the first quarter, the Irish responded with goals by junior attacker Randy Colley and freshman attacker Kevin Mahoney, only two minutes apart. After Ge­orgetown tied the game at 2-2, Notre Dame rattled off three unanswered goals coming from Mahoney, freshman midfielder Brian Erickson, and junior at­tacker Mark Hexamer, who also assisted on Mahoney's goal. 
At the end of the first quarter, the Irish led 5-3, and it was ev­ident that they were outplaying a very highly touted Hoya mid­field that came into the game with the reputation as being very good at creating chances off the transition. 
The Irish used a lot of differ­ent players and lines to combat a Hoya squad that was ex­tremely deep and showed a lot of quickness to the ball. The plan paid off for coach Kevin 
see LAX/page 13 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
In a first-ever battle between top-15 ranked teams to involve a Notre Dame lacrosse team, the No. 14 Irish convincingly defeated the No. 15 George­town 13-10 at Loftus on Satur­day afternoon. It was the first time the Irish have ever de­feated a top-15 team. 
As a result the Irish climbed to No. 12 in the latest United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association's coaches' poll. By becoming the 12th-ranked team in the country, the Irish moved their highest ranking ever, up two notches. 
Saturday's game was touted as one that would really prove whether the Irish were deserv­ing of their ranking because it was the first game of the sea­son against a top-20 team. But the Irish came out and showed the rest of the country that they are, indeed, for real. 
After Georgetown's Kevin 
Notre Dame baseball takes
Senior Broski injured in Rugby win 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Rugby is a sport of courage, challenging its players to dis­play a combination of mental and physical toughness. 
Senior Rugby Club member Todd Broski will need all the mental and physical toughness he can muster to overcome the greatest challenge of his life. 
, 
' 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Notre Dame,.s wins over the Fort Wayne Men's Club were marred 
Saturday by the severe injury suffered by senior Todd Broski. 
Broski suffered a severe neck injury in Saturday's game against the Fort Wayne Men's Club, and he is currently in the intensive care unit at South Bend's St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
No information as to the ex­tent of his injury or the prog­nosis for recovery was available from the hospital. 
His spinal cord was not sev­
,, '~""""•' .•· &G£1 . _,_,,,,. 

TENNIS Christy Faustmann helps Notre Dame beat Texas A&M. 
see page 14 
ered, although some damage 
three of four from Butler
was done. It will be another day or two before the doctors can make a judgement about whether or not Broski will be able to regain the use of his limbs. 
The injury occurred in a sit­uation known as a ruck, where the forwards fight for a loose ball. In a ruck, the players col­lapse on top of one another, and Broski found himself propped over another person and other players then fell on top of him. 
"It was a freak accident," said sophomore Nick Knowl­ton. "Rugby is a very physical game, but it wasn't one of the more dangerous situations." 
Members of the team gath­ered Sunday at the hospital to offer encouragement to their teammate, known for his com­petitive nature and compas­sionate attitude. 
"(Broski's) always been there for the players on the team," said Knowlton. "I·Ie's known for his toughness. If there's anyone who can get through something like this, he can." 
Notre Dame sports psychol­ogist Dr. Mickey Franco joined the players at a team meeting Sunday afternoon to help them cope with the injury. 
Franco encouraged the players to show support for each other and Broski's family as everyone tries to come to grips with their feelings. 
At the meeting, the team decided to play the three re­maining games on their sched­ule, knowing that cancellation wouldn't speed Broski's recov­
see BROSKI/page 13 
OU!l~DliDrn SPORTS 
SAINT MARY'S Softball splits a pair against North Central College. 
see page 14 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team (1 0-7) won three of four contests against Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Butler this weekend in Indianapolis. 
The Irish bats were cold on Saturday with Notre Dame 
notching only 12 hits, but recovered on Sunday scoring 25 runs on 38 hits in the doubleheader. T h e 

Bulldogs won Tom Price the first game on Saturday 3-1 as the Irish could only muster five hits off Butler starter Scott Metzinger who struck out four in the complete game win. 
Freshman designated hitter Ryan Topham (.468) and junior second baseman Greg Layson (.337) led Notre Dame at the plate with two singles each. 
The Bulldogs came up big in the third inning with three runs off Notre Dame starter Chris Michalak. The Irish responded with a run in the fourth, but were shut out from there. 
Michalak ( 4-1) took the loss for the Irish after spreading 12 hits over nine innings, striking out three and stranding runners on third five times. 
In Saturday's second game, Tom Price (2-1) was in control as the junior pitcher walked no one in the seven inning 3-0 shutout over Butler. 
Price face just 24 batters and gave up three hits for the win, but he also had the Irish hitters behind him as senior Eric Danapilis drove in all three Irish runs with a single and a double. llis three H.Bls brings his team-leading total for the season to 24. 
Price was pleased with his performance. 
"I think I pitched pretty well. I pitched real aggressive which I have tried to do recently," said Price who although not overpowering got the Butler batters to hit ground balls. "I pitched inside more. I felt strong and my location inside was good." 
In Sunday's first game, South Bend native Marty DeGraff put a stop to Butler after relieving starter AI Walania in the second inning with the score 8­6 in favor of the Bulldogs. DeGraff (2-0) took the win for the Irish by striking out five and allowing one run in five innings on the mound. 
DeGraff was also helped by the Irish lineup which pounded 19 hits in the game. Freshman Rowan Hichards led the way with four hits, four runs and two runs batted in while fellow freshmanTopham had four HBls on a triple and a single. Both freshmen reached base five times in the game and Hichards took advantage of it with three stolen bases. 
"It seems pretty easy right now. I got off to a good start," said Richards of his success so far. "I know I have a job to do now and I just have to do it." 
Richards has a reason for the 
see IRISH/page 12 
TRACK Men's track finishes sixth at Indiana Intercollegiate. 
see page 12













