----------, 
VOL. XXV. N0.74 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1993 
-------...---~ 
The Observer 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton's biggest challenge lies in promises, ND professors say 
By MARY MURPHY 
News Writer 
Upon his inauguration, Clin­ton's greatest challenge is going to be living up to his campaign promises in the face of the realities of policy making in Washington, D.C. and simmer­ing foreign conflicts, according to a panel of Notre Dame gov­ernment professors. 
Clinton has to create a do­mestic agenda immediately to maintain focus on his campaign promises, according to gov­ernment professor Peri Arnold. 
A "budget deficit reduction plan and health care" should remain at the forefront, according to Arnold. However, the problem of a presidency is that "all sorts of unexpected problems come together." 
"Clinton's greatest challenge is his ability to live up to the lib­eral ideals which he has given new life as he comes to the realities of policy-making in Washington." said James McAdams. associate professor of government. 
These realities, for example, are the "petty behavior" of in­fighting between the White !louse and various factions such as Congress which can bog down the speedy solution of domestic and foreign problems. 
"Already, he's raised expec­tations so high that it will be hard to have quick victory on larger issues that will help people to believe his presidency will work in a new way, " McAdams continued. 
Clinton's campaign goals will bP further hindered by the multiple foreign conflicts which Bush is leaving behind. Profes­sor Arnold said. "Clinton has to play two games of tennis at onee. He has to keep a close ep~ on an effective domestic program .... while caught with a plateful of kinds of foreign policy issues he hadn't cam­paigned on or thought about, " Arnold continued. To com­pound this difficult situation, Clinton is "playing· with a team that's incomplete. " 
Clinton's slow appointment of foreign policy making individu­als has left his administration an incomplete team, said Arnold. 
There are two schools of thought among the professors: first, that the carry over from the Bush Administration will smooth the transition, and sec­ond, that there is a danger of filling the most important posi­tions. 
Foreign issues are not going to be that problematic accord­ing to government professor Alan Dowty, who sees that "there is more continuity than people realize in foreign af­fairs." Dowty said that Clinton will have some time to act on foreign issues. 
"He won't have to act imme­diately," Dowdy said, because there is an "ongoing bureaucracy of people who are very well versed... the carry over will help him." 
On the other hand, some in­dividuals are extremely worried about the sparseness of individuals appointed for Clin­ton's foreign policy making team. "I have no idea who the individuals are who will provide leadership," Professor McAdams said. 
·For example, few individuals have been appointed to the Na­tional Security Council. This Couneil "involves an incredible amount of judgement, as it de­cides how to invest American resources." 
McAdams points out that even a "number of people in the State department are upset over the lack of direction from the incoming Administration. 
There are several possible reasons for this type of ap­pointment process. Clinton's promise for a diversified cabi­net naturally slows things ac­cording to Saiz. 
In addition, Saiz said that Clinton has added more ethical requirements to the ethical im­provements that have been made over the last twelve 
see CLINTON I page 4 

The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 


Cutting away 

Saint Mary's senior Kristin Hornyak uses a saw to create the stage design of the upcoming February 
production of "Oklahoma!" 


By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Candidate hopefuls for Stu­dent Council president and vice-president of Student Gov­ernment committed a minor violation of the campaigning rules, said Pete Castelli, Judicial Council President of Student Government. 
Castelli said that their viola­tion was campaigning before the official date. Castelli said that they "sent a flyer showing their intent to run to a very se­lected group of people. They were acting out of ignorance. They didn't intentionally' do anything wrong. It was quickly rectified, with very few reper­cussions." 
According the orders of the Ethics Committee of the Judi­cial Council, the students have written a formal letter of apol­ogy to recipients of the· flyer. In addition, the cost of producing and distributing the flyers, about 4 or 5 dollars, according to Castelli, has been deducted from the $150 limit on cam­paigning expenses. 
The campaigning process began last night at a meeting for perspective candidates. Candidate perspectives must submit a petition by January 27 with a list of 150 student signa­tures, recognizing the perspec­tive candidates a s legitimate candidates. 
On February 1, campaigning officially begins. Their aca­demic status is acceptable, said Andrea Sullivan, who is an Election Commissioner with Andrew Alfers, and posters and campaign material must be approved by both the Judicial Council and Student Activities. 
Debates will be held around February 3, and Sullivan said they are "a good time to see what the different candidates stand for," when candidates answer questions from the au­dience. 
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

Probe centers on signals, human error 
GARY. Ind. (.AP) -Cars peelt}d open ~ if slic~d by ''a big razor blade" when two commuter trains sideswiped each other 
• Effects on travel/ page 4 
near a trestle where two tracks converge. Seven people were killed. 
Investigators tried to de~ termine whether a crew error or signal malfunction· was to blame; Both crews said they had the green light, the Chicago Tribune and Chi¢agoSun•Times re~ ported today, citing an unidentified railroad of­ficial. 
The crash. occurred on the city's west side just after the Monday morning 
sea TRAIN/ Pii99 4 


Scholarship established in former football player's name 

By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
A $2,500 donation was made to the Robert Satterfield Memorial Scholarship fund yesterday in memorial of the ND non-scholarship football player who died of heart failure shorily after the 1988 national championship season. 
Graduates of Satterfield's high school, Notre Dame High School of Sherman Oaks, Cali­fornia, who are in need of fi­nancial assistance and deserv­ing ND students are eligible for the fund which has already as­sisted four students. 
The current donation is the result of the proceeds from the sale of the "Irish Advantage" T­shirt depicting ND game day, which was sold during the foot­ball season. 
St. Edward's Hall resident 

assistant Dennis Berry pro­posed the idea of T-shirt sales to Pat Fallon '88, a friend of Satterfield's, as a way to raise funds for the scholarship when the two met during the past summer. Since then Berry and St. Edward's Hall have champi­oned the cause, printing 1,000 of the shirts and selling at least 600, according to Berry. The remainder were given away at the Cotton Bowl and to the needy. 
Berry presented the check, accompanied by Joe McQuade, president of St. Edward's Hall and Ted Novy, vice president of St. Edwards Hall, to Father William Beauchamp, executive vice president and chair of the faculty board in control of ath­letics, Joseph Russo, director of Financial Aid, Charles Lennon, director of the Alumni Associa­tion, and D'Juan Francisco, Alumni Association club repre­sentative. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
----~-~~-~ 
-~--------~-------~-~~--~------------------­
page L Wednesday, January 20,1993 
The Observer 



INSIDE COLUMN 
It's getting hard to be a 
rebel these days. And 
after today's 
inauguration, it'll be even 
tougher. 
A rebel is traditionally 
one who goes against the 
grain of society and chal­
lenges the existing order 
and authority. 
order?... So it is with the new Clinton ad­
ministration. 
Clinton, a man who resisted the draft and 
whose wife recently purchased the Grateful 
Dead's Europe '72 concert CD, are a far cry 
from the straight-laced persona of George Bush 
and his tradition-based wife. 
And because of Clinton's compassionate identification with America's "Everyman" (and woman), his inaugural parade today is abundant with untraditional but very American citizens who not long ago would have been deemed subversive to the way "things are supposed to be." 
These people will not be marching as rebels today, but as heroic representations of a diverse and free society. 
The question then is: How can one go against the grain of society when the grain itself is going every which way? 
It makes one wonder... what will the rebel o the 1990s look like? 
Will the new rebel be a traditional Church­going conservative who believes in absolute right and wrong in the face of existential post­modernism? 
What will the new rebel wear? Certainly not the trendy fashions one sees in Rolling Stone magazine or on MTV. 
In fact, Holling Stone-a magazine that began in the late 1960s as a subversive underground publication-was a major endorser of our new president. The same is true with MTV. 
These media. which made a living off o rebelling against institutions, are now the institutions themselves. Gone is their ability to subvert the establishment as they now are the establishment. 
And as the liberals take their places in Washington as our executive authorities, the conservatives will naturally become their watchdogs. 
The Hush Limbaugh Show is a good example of this phenomenon. Limbaugh, who's as far right as one can get, experienced a jump in popularity as the Heagan-Bush empire fell and the new left rose. 
Limbaugh expressed glee at the fact that Clinton won as now he has an administration to ridieule and rally against-the same thing the likes of Holling Stone and MTV did to the He­publicans for the last 12 years. 
So where are we headed? 
Will Rebel Without a Cause be remade starring Dan Quayle in the place of James Dean? Or will Clinton simply become more traditional and conservative as he experiences the trials and tribulations of leading thfl most powerful country in the world? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATION 
Woman underwent amputation 
• RENO, Nev. -A woman who was stranded for nine days in deep snow underwent surgery to amputate parts of her frostbitten feet, and her husband faces a similar operation, doctors said today. Jennifer Stolpa, 20, was in stable condition at Washoe Medical Center today after 11 hours of surgery Monday to remove dead tissue and reconstruct blood vessels and muscles so she will be able to walk without prostheses. She survived the ordeal by huddling with her son, 5-month-old Clayton, in a cave while husband James, 21, trudged through the snow looking for help. The family got trapped in a blizzard Dec. 29 while on their way from California to Idaho. They were rescued Jan. 6. 
Adolescents have more raw deals 
• NEW YORK -Memo to moody adolescents: If you think everything has been going wrong lately, you may be on to something. Researchers have found new evi­dence that one reason life is so unhappy for many young adolescents is that they face a bumper crop of distressing events. What's more, adolescents seem to be thrown more by a pileup of bad events than younger kids are. Evidence for this double-whammy in early adolescence is presented in January's issue of the journal Developmental Psychology by Reed Larson of the University of Illinois in Urbana and Mark Ham of the Human Development Center in Duluth, Minn. Puberty and the transition to junior high also generally contribute, noted Dr. Daniel Offer, director of adolescent research at Northwestern Medical School. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
"Effective Interviewing" will be presented by Arthur Andersen at 7p.m. tonight in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Ac­counting Association. 

• 
A Mexican dinner to benefit El Buen Vecino, a South Bend organization that aids Hispanic families, will be held tonight at the CSC from 5-7pm. The dinner is also sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition. 


FORECAST 
Clear and cold tonight with low about in mid teens. Cloudy tomorrow with a 40 percent chance of mixed rain or sleet. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  30  17  
Allanta  54  46  
Bogota  66  44  
Cairo  63  48  
Chicago  30  05  
Cleveland  25  10  
Dallas  52  35  
Detroit  24  09  
Indianapolis  26  14  
Jerusalem  45  35  
London  50  45  
Los Angeles  56  46  
Madrid  57  34  
Minneapolis  20  17  
Moscow  41  34  
Nashville  34  30  
New York  38  21  
Paris  51  50  
Philadelphia  40  25  
Rome  54  41  
SeaUie  44  35  
South Bend  25  04  
Tokyo  50  36  
Washtngton. D.C.  42  27  


Man sentenced for murdering family 
• SEATTLE-A man convicted of hacking his wife and two children to death, then stashing their bodies in a storage locker for 12 years, was sentenced Tuesday to 80 years in prison. Mark Bender, 50, pleaded guilty in December to three counts of first-degree murder in the April 1980 deaths of his former wife, Barbara, 35, and sons Mark, 15, and Brian, 8. Bender's current wife, Anna, and stepdaughter, Tracy, wept when the sentence was read. They had asked King County Superior Court Judge Anne Ellington for a lenient sentence. The locker's contents were discovered last summer after Mrs. Bender stopped making rental payments on the storage space without Bender's knowledge. •.; 
WORLD 

Ni~erian women die smuggling drugs 
•ONDON 
-Customs officers at Heathrow Airport were searching Clare Ayemwenre, just off the plane from Nigeria, when some of the 86 condoms full of cocaine in her stomach split open. Soon afterward, she died of an overdose. While the customs officials were busy with Ms. Ayemwenre, 47, Hosalie Odigie, another drug courier on the flight from Lagos last September, slipped past them and out of the airport. Within days she, too, died because some of the 30 packets of cocaine she had swallowed burst inside her. In November a third Nigerian, Lily Ehirobo, 38, suffered a similar fatal overdose. She had swallowed 111 cocaine-filled condoms. "These women didn't stand a chance," said Howard Sutton of the Customs and Excise agency. "The drug traffickers who sent them care nothing about them." 

• 
The Center for Social Concerns Festival will host 40 service and social action groups and agencies from 7 to 10 p.m tomorrow. 

• 
DJ Applications can be picked up at the WVFl-AM studios in 200 LaFortune and are due Friday, January 22. 

• 
Applications for 43t. Mary's A.A.'s are now available in 178 Le Mans and at hall desks. The deadline is 5 p.m. on Jan. 29. For more information, contact Saint 


• 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY
Today's Staff 
News Frank Rivera Sarah Doran  Sports Jason Kelly  
Production Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki  Systems Harry Zembillas  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 19 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 283,127,535 -0.67 to 239.66 S&P COMPOSITE 

-1.71 to 435.13 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+3.79 to 3,274.91
UNCHANGED 583 


GOLD +$.60 to $328.60/oz 
SILVER +$0.01 to $3.693/oz 

• 
In 1907: Workers clashed with troops in Paris as French Premier Georges Clemenceau closed the Trade Union Center. 

• 
In 1927: Mexico accepted-arbitration in a dispute with the United States over oil land ownership laws. 

• 
In 1945: President Franklin Delano Roosevelt was in­augurated in Washington, D.C., for the fourth time. 

• 
In 1948: Reports circulated that Soviets had stolen $170 million in art from Dresden, Germany. 

• 
In 1981 : Ronald Reagan was inaugurated President while 52 American hostages in Iran were released. 

• 
In 1991: The city of Corpus Christi, Texas, rejected a proposed charter amendment declaring that "human life begins at conception." 


Wednesday, January 20, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Saint Ma.:..y's ,.raames 
··:;:;:~· 
Ramirez MINT 
By MEGAN BRUCHAS 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's named Maricela Ramirez· the Minority International and Non-Traditional Life (MINT) director. 
Ramirez took the position before Christmas break and has already proposed sev­eral new ideas for the com­ing year. MINT plays a criti­cal role in helping the Saint Mary's community to better understand cultural differ­ences. 
Ramirez plans to kick off a new program that will en· able young minority women in the South Bend area to experience a typical day at Saint Mary's College. 
Through the program. called "My First Day in Col­lege," the middle school students will be able under­stand that a college educa­tion is not out of reach and that it is important to stay in schooL 
"All will benefit from the interaction." said Ramirez. Learning how to work to­gether and communicate 
~;}.~·,:,: ·. :.,.:: :. . ..~.: 
with different people talpartof slil:l added, for volunteers particip~te in the. nA'"" .111rn•· <M'''\.l 
gram. ·········· · 
She has also {,.n~•·•·.•·'"··~'"',..t.. ., . Bridge. a bi-monthly ·· • ......,•.•..••.• letin, that will be released to ·Students to providE! cultural connection in. the commUility. Finally. she is leading a college-wide effort to hold a multi-cultural week. The of.. flee hopes to hold the event each fall to celebrate cultural diversity on campus. "Everyone needsto feel part of the community," said Ramirez. Ramirez has previously worked in the community as director of SoCial Services with the Urban League of South B~nd, School Corps and Catholic R(llief Services, She holds a Bachelor's Degree and is curr~ntly studying at Indiana University atSouth Bend to . 
get her masters in ···· ··· · administration. 
Darren~ You~re finally 21! But to us 
You~re still our little son. Happy 
Birthday 
LotJ-e, ;tfo/1( & Oacl 

Federal aid program to change in 1993-94 
By ALICIA REALE 
Assistant News Editor 
The 1993-94 federal aid pro­cess for college students will reflect a number of changes in both policy and procedure, ac­cording to Joseph Russo, direc­tor of financial aid at Notre Dame. 
The Higher Education Amendment of 1992 signed into law in July 1992, changed a variety of formulas and pro­grams. "Federal policy deter­mining eligibility (for financial aid) has been liberalized in an election year environment," said Russo. 
The revised federal law will provide increased opportunities primarily in the form of loans, for some students who may not previously have been eligible for financial aid. 
"The primary beneficiaries of the federal formula are the up­per-middle-income and higher­income families," said Joe Case, director of financial aid at Amherst College. That does not mean they will necessarily get scholarships; federal and state grants go to the needy, not to everyone who qualifies. 
The change in elibility calcu­lations can be significant in that it opens the door to some ad­vantageous student loans, ac­cording to Daniel Lundquist, dean of admission at Union College. 
Although more students will be eligible, "unforunately the federal government did not add any new dollars to what had previously been allocated," said Russo. "The dollars will proba­bly grow, but not as equally as number of applicants, here or federally or at other institu­tions." 
The policy changes have led to new procedures for financial aid applications, according to Russo. "Because the federal government is dealing with a complex issue, they are trying to make it (the process) more simple. The government is asking the minimum number of questions and data elements to derive a formula for eligiblity." 
Notre Dame supports the need for less complexity but "we feel the need to make good decisions based on as compre­hensive a picture as we can get," Russo said. Therefore, Notre Dame like many other colleges facing an increased number of eligible students, is now requiring additional fi­nancial data from applicants seeking school financial aid. 
"Sometimes family situations cannot be fully described by putting numbers in boxes," said Russo. "The form that has resulted (from the new amendment) does not provide enough information for institu­tions like Notre Dame to make as good a decision as they pos­sibly can." 
"When dealing with millions of dollars and people's lives, you don't want to make the process so quick and dirty," he explained. "We reserve the right to ask for good informa­tion. In certain cases simple in­formation is okay but in many cases the decision is not simple. Numbers in boxes will not do a fair job," 

Consequently, the 1993-94 form has two parts. The Free Application for Federal Student Assistance (FAFSA) is all that is required for federal aid consid­erations. Other forms of assis­tance, including ND scholar­ships and grants, will require the additional completion of a Financial Aid Form (FAF) which asks for more information than the federal form. 
The deadline for application remains on February 28. The form is out a little late but al­lows enough time for normal business, according to Russo. In the past application materials have been available in early Demember but this year they were handed out at the begin­ning of the spring semester. "There is some delay but hope­fully (applicants) can recoup and get back on schedule," he said. 
The ND financial aid depart­ment has extended some assis­tance to applicants and, accord­ing to Russo, most families generally wait until the latter part of January to complete the form when more accurate in­formqation could be secured from employers' wages and earnings statements. 
HPC to sponsor monthly service project 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) will sponsor and partici­pate in a monthly service pro­ject to promote the awareness of its $25,000 service fund established last semester to help fund local service organi­zations and campus service projects, according to Frank 


ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Volunteers Needed!! 
Thursday, January 21 7:00PM 
Library Auditorium 
***DO YOUR FAMILY PROUD*** ***IMPRESS YOUR FRIENDS*** 

Flynn, Stanford Hall co-presi­dent 
In an effort to also establish HPC as a more service oriented group, HPC will begin the ser­vice project on Sunday by as­sisting elderly residents of a North East South Bend neigh­borhood in fixing up their homes, Flynn said. 
"Members of HPC will help elderly people by painting and cleaning up their homes and performing jobs which they have difficulty doing," Flynn said. The project will be similar to the ND service organization Habitat For Humanity, Flynn added. 

By donating a small portion of the HPC service fund to a pro­ject each month, HPC hopes to increase the general awareness toward the availability of the service funds, Flynn said. 
DIPPING is for DIPS!!!! 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 , '94 school year Call232 , 8256 for info and scheduled showings 


page 4 The Observer Wednesday, January 20, 1993 
Travels won't be affected, Anthony Travel owner says 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 
Monday's crash of trains Nos. 7 and 12 of the Northern Indiana Commuter Transporta­tion District, known as the South Shore. will probably not afl'ect commuter traffic, accord­ing to .John Anthony of Anthony Travel. 
"I would think most of the people who ride the South Shore do it somewhat regularly, and those people probably won't change their habits," he said. 
Despite questions of the rail-
Train 
continued from page 1 
rush hour at a trestle where two tracks, one for trains in each direction, partially overlap in a space not much wider than a single track. Neither train left the track. 
The dead had been sitting next to windows. Several passengers were decapi­tated, Fire Chief Ben Perry said. 
"The walls were ripped open, creating an effect like a big razor blade," he said. 
Perry said 69 people were injured. Two were listed in critical condition. Some were 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
Elections will be held on February 8 from 11 a.m. -1 
p.m. and 5-7 p.m., and will be 
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
years. Democrats have been out of power for a long time, so it is hard to find people with Washington experience. As a result, Saiz do11s not see the few as a sign of problems within the new administration. 
Appointing individuals is only onn facet of Clinton's future of dealing with policy making in Washington, D.C. Clinton faees difficulties with Congress as well, beeause Congress and Clinton have very different modes of operation. 
According to professor Saiz, 
"Portrayal of AHANAS (African,Americans, Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans) in the Media" 
with Dll. AHce Tah: 

January 20, 1993 7:00--10:00 p.m. at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Office of Minority Student Affairs and the Lilly Foundation 
road's safety, the company will still tell customers that the least expensive way to travel from South Bend to Chicago is the South Shore, said Anthony. 
"We just give the information. They make the decision," he said. 
For those looking for an al­ternative means of travel, United Limo does offer bus ser­vice from the Notre Dame campus to the O'Hare and Midway Airports. From the airport. it is possible to take the "L" downtown. A one way ticket is $27 and round trip $50. 
trapped up to two hours in the twisted metal. 
"We hung on, and there were people flying around," said .Jane Mitchell, who wasn't hurt. 
"All of a sudden I heard this big, loud explosion and I was thrown side to side," said Steven Lewin, a jewelry maker from Valparaiso. 
Lewin, who suffered a mi­nor back injury, was in the second car of his train and saw a body in the aisle when he looked into the first car. "It looked to me like they were decapitated, and I got ill and had to turn around," he said. 
About 100 people were on 
organized by each hall's judicial board in the dorms, and at LaFortune for off campus stu­dents. 
Class elections will be held on March 1, and campaigning be­gins on February 23. A meet­ing for class president candi-
Congress cares more about in­dividual constituents than rela­tions as a whole" while Clinton is a "pragmatic politician wants what works for the nation." "He has to make concessions and bargains to get ahead," Saiz stated. 
Clinton's success will be mea­sured both by the public and by Congress. 
Congress will not give Clinton as long a time period to prove his success. "People will give him the four years, but Congress expects him to be relatively successful right away," said Saiz. 
Success in terms of the deficit, "will be measured in terms of incomes and in terms 
FOOTBALL 
PARKING 
BUSES ONLY $30<00 
The Observer/Maureen Long 
Another day in the life of a busy student 

Seniors Ilona Carlos and Gregg Cornick watch a movie and relax in their off-campus apartment. 
the trains, one with three cars headed west from South Bend, the other with two cars eastbound from Chicago, which is about 30 miles from the crash site. 
dates will be held on February 
16. Student Senate elections will be held on March 24, and campaigning begins on March 
19. A meeting for interested students will be held on March 16. 
of job growth," according to Saiz. He also sees health care as another campaign promise that will be closely watehed. 
Clinton will also be judged by how he handles health care ac­cording to Saiz, but the problem is to do it without increasing the deficit or raising taxes. The solution that he comes to and how it is perceived will de­termine whether people see him as a success. 

~
" M
) ~ 
~
AC~" r-:~ARD FOOD&SPIRITS ~~~~":.ON THE BAY 

.
---'-'c.:.:.__,,~ .. ~1-'P0,---' SECURITY DEPOSIT 
1
is~, I • REQUIRED 
I TROP CAL 

i1-80<M83-11oo
50Uth Condominium Services, Inc. ·1-210-761-1100 
P.O. Box 2100 ISouth Padre Island, TX 78597 
Padre Island 1-800-221-5218 
South Padre Island, TX 78597 

~,,
,,­
-\{~~~ 
BEACH RESORT HOTEL 
100 Padre Boulevard South Padre Island 
CALL NOW FOR SPECIAL PACKAGES! * 800-531-7405 US 800-292-7506 TX 210-761-5401 
•LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE 
THIS IS SPRING BREAK. THIS COULD BE YOU.
Padre 
Rentals 
& 
Real Estate 
Fiesta Plaza at the foot of the bridge 
P.O. Box 3470 410 Padre Blvd. South Padre Island, TX 78597 
1·800·292·7518 
RENTING BEACH HOUSES AND CONDOS 

@SheratonSouth Padre Island Beach Resort 
ON SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 


Radisson Resort Spring Break Party Headquarters 
Newly renovated, located on 10 acres of beachfront. For reservations call: 
1·800·292·7704 1·210·761·6511 

fiRadisson Resort South Padre Island 
Suntide Ill 
12 Story Luxury Condominiums 

R.R. $32.50/0/PERSON/4 MIN 2 & 3 BR Units On The Beach 
1·800·292·7502 5Juth~ TX: (800) 531·4538,
BEST FOR LESS 


US: (800) 847·5728 
MIRAMAR RESORT 
SPRING BREAK 1993 

I 
1500' GULF OF MEXICO BEACH for .Volley Ball, swimming & other . water
·BEST RATES FOR I Beach Sports ... 2 fresh 
.pools...ON SITE SECURITY...Travel 1 CENTRAL LOCATIONS'Iagencyin_lob?ytor~exicoa~d
• L
I • other destinations. Pnces beg1n 
1 
1 

~.at$100pernightforfourpersons. 

Wednesday, January 20, 1993 The Observer 
NO to host Catholic schools conference 
Senate approves funds for AnTostal concert 


page 5 

Happy Birthday 
Maureen 
Love, Mom, Dad & Claire 

By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
For the third time in four years, Notre Dame will host the national conference of the Na­tional Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universi­ties (NASCCU), featuring Rev. Jesse Jackson and Roy Innis, chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality. 
The conference will be held Feb. 4-7, and will focus on cul­tural diversity. The small group sessions, speeches and meet­ings will center on the ways in which different institutions deal with the issue of cultural diver­sity. 
"We feel cultural diversity is a 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
News Writer 
Student senate approved the funding of $20,000-$25,000 for the cost of the Antosal Music Concert at last night's meeting. Student Union Board (SUB) is hoping one of the following bands will make the appear­ance, according to Pat Mc­Carthy, SUB's board manager: 
•Arrested 
Development 

•Living 
Colour 

•Jesus 
Jones 

•Blues 
Traveler 

•10.000 
Maniacs 

•Indigo 
Girls The price range is dependent 


very timely topic," said junior Mike Schmiedeler, chairman of the conference. "It's affecting all students everywhere. It's for an exchange of ideas between students at Catholic colleges." 
NASCCU was formed four years ago at Notre Dame, to develop an organization for students at various Catholic in­stitutions to talk about issues and ideas. Other schools in at­tendance include St. Mary's College, Holy Cross College, DePaul University, and the Uni­versity of Dayton. Each year, Notre Dame participates in a fall regional meeting and a spring national conference. 
According to Schmiedeler, the planning for this upcoming conference has been underway 
upon the popularity of the band and the number of colleges competing for a performance by band during the weekend of April 25th said McCarthy. Funding for any of these artists will be provided by both the Antosal and music committees. Tickets are estimated to be $5 per person. 
Other proposals presented by McCarthy which were approved are the appearances of comedian AI Franken and Rev. Jesse Jackson. 
Franken is a staff writer for the popular television show, Saturday Night Live. 
"AI Franken is a good 
for about a year. SUB, HPC, Student Government and Stu­dent Activities have been active in the process, he said. 
"They helped with getting Jesse Jackson to come. He's a really good speaker and I don't think we'll have any trouble at all getting students to come," said Schmiedeler. 
About 20 students from the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munity will attend the confer­ence and take part in the activi­ties. Other students, however, will still be able to attend Jack­son and Innis' speeches. 
Other speakers will include Roland Smith, executive assis­tant to Father Malloy, and Fa­ther Richard Warner, director of campus ministry. 
choice," said McCarthy. "We could have tried for Dana Car­vey but he would have cost twice as much and his time would have been very limited. With AI Franken we still have a good comedian from Saturday Night Live but we save money," he explained. McCarthy hopes Franken will be able to do a few shows during Antosal week. 
Jackson will be at Notre Dame on Feb 5. as a part of the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) 
see SENATE I page 6 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS VII 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 1993 8 P.M. -4 AM. JOYCE ACC 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 


AWAADSOONAlEDIYl<VTRE DAME ALUMNl MEOClAlDN • ~DBYAVlMARlA PRE$ • COMI!$IONS [N'(XXJPERATION WITHtJNIVE.R91YPOODSEiRvrES 

--------------------~----------------------­
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, January 20, 1993 
After three raids,Saddam shows no sign of succumbing 
BAGHDAD. Iraq (AP) -As 
the Iraqis count their dead and 
Saddam Hussein offers added 
food rations, the government is 
declaring that continuing U.S. 
air raids will do anything but 
force cooperation with U.N. 
weapons inspectors. 
As the death toll rises from the attacks, Arab states appear to be backing away from the U.S.-led Persian Gulf War coalition they joined to force Iraqi occupation forces from Kuwait. 
Also raising objections is Rus­sia, which issued an unexpected demand that the United States get explicit U.N. permission before launching further raids. 
Iraq says 43 people have been killed and at least 45 injured in the allied bombing and cruise missile attacks that began last week and mostly targeted missile and radar sites. 
Baghdad was quiet today, but anti-American outrage was not far below the boiling point. 
The official Iraqi News Agency said Saddam would pay a reward of about $15,000 to any "heroes" who shoot down an enemy missile. But Iraqi gunners might not have a shot at American cruise missiles for some time. 
The Washington Post today 
Correction The headline on a story in Monday's Observer about a new accelerated nursing program at Saint Mary's was incorrect. It should have read "Saint Mary's to implement accelerated nursing program." The Observer re­grets the error.  
Dollar Kraze  
Hundreds of New Items Now in Stock Household Plastics, Health & Beauty Aids, Snacks, Party Supplies, Valentine Cards, Gifts and Balloons 2 Locations •Ironwood Plaza 18113 State Route 23 South Bend •Indian Ridge Plaza  

5901 Grape Road Mishawaka 
•Always 
$1 or Less! 

•Always 
Something New! 


•Always Qulality! 
Celebrate '93 All $1 .00 Items 
93(: 
with this ad! 
expires 1/24/93 
quoted an unidentified senior 
U.S. official as saying President Bush has ordered the last raid on Iraq of his term, which ends Wednesday. 
The Defense Ministry's newspaper, Al-Qaddisiya, wrote today that Bush has "added pages full of shame to his black record ... while packing his bags, he sent shells of his spite on Sunday to the heart of Baghdad ... " 
In an apparent bid to bolster his public support, Saddam ordered an increase in food ra­tions beginning in February. Food supplies have been tight because of a U.N. trade em­bargo imposed after Iraq in­vaded Kuwait in 1990. 
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz issued a statement Mon­day night blaming the crisis on the United States and the spe­cial U.N. commission that is overseeing the destruction of Iraq's weapons of mass de­struction. 
Aziz said the attacks "raised serious questions" about Iraqi compliance with the commis­sion because of Washington's influence.on the world body. 
Iraq has refused to guarantee the safety of U.N. weapons in­spectors who want to use U.N. 
aircraft in Iraq. 
Although most Arab countries supported the U.S.-led military coalition in the gulf war, Bush's use of force this time to try to force Saddam into compliance with U.N. resolutions has alienated many as being heavy­handed. 
The Cairo-based Arab League on Monday said it "regrets the policy of military escalation against Iraq ... which extended to the bombing of Iraqi civilian targets inside Baghdad and led to the killing and wounding of civilians among the brotherly Iraqi people." 
Many countries -including Iraq's arch-enemy Syria -have criticized the West for taking swift action against Iraq while failing to enforce U.N. resolutions demanding that Is­rael take back more than 400 Palestinian deportees and that Serbia end its offensive in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, who put his country's bases at the disposal of the allied jets carrying out the raids, said Monday that all U.N. Security Council resolutions must "be respected and implemented." 
But these countries also stopped short of lining up be­
hind Saddam. 

Foreign Minister Amr Moussa of Egypt, Washington's closest Arab ally, said his country continues to'·"demand ·:respect for international legitimacy" from Iraq, referring to Saddam's persistent defiance of 
U.N. resolutions. 

Russia's stance, articulated in a communique to the State De­partment from Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, is especially tough because it is one of the five countries holding veto power in the Security Council. 
But Russia, which has sup­ported the coalition but not provided military backing, also criticized Iraq. 
"The key to normalization of the situation lies in Baghdad, which has not heeded repeated warnings," Russia's Foreign Ministry said Monday. 
Pentagon sources on Monday confirmed that an errant cruise missile, most likely knocked off course by anti-aircraft fire, hit Baghdad's high-rise al-Rashid hotel on Sunday, killing two people. 
The missile that gutted the lobby of the hotel used by most American journalists in the Iraqi capital was among more than 40 in a raid that targeted a plant the Pentagon says makes parts used by Iraq's nuclear weapons program. 
An Iraqi military spokesman claimed the capital's defenders shot down eight cruise missiles on Sunday. 
Senate 
continued from page 5 
convention. Although most funds will be covered by NASCCU, SUB will provide the cost of Stepan Center for Jackson's speech. There will be limited number of tickets available in order to avoid another "Clinton at Stepan" episode, according to McCarthy. Tickets are free and will be available the Monday prior to the speech. 
In other business: 
•sophomore 
Paul Kimes was nominated and approved to re­place Bill Dailey, who is in Lon­don this semester, as Parlia­mentarian for Student Senate; 

•there 
will be a memorial mass for the one year anniver­sary of the death of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp this Sunday at Sacred Heart Church at 11:45 a.m. 




The Observer is now accepting applications for 1993--94 EDITOR~JN,CHIEF Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and should possess solid communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editing and/or management is helpful. Previous newspaper experience is also helpful, but not required. Applicants should submit a resume and a five­page personal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact Monica Yant at The Observer, 631-4542 .  


Wednesday, January 20, 1993 The Observer page 7 

The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

The mad scientists 
Saint Mary's freshmen biology majors Kristin Baumann, left, and Tina Tryaska, right, perform a spectroanalysis lab for chemistry. 
TV camera films cemetery murder 
MIAMI (AP) -The TV crew was filming Emilio Nunez plac­ing flowers on his teen-age daughter's grave, grieving over her suicide. Then, his former wife showed up unexpectedly. 
As the camera rolled, Nunez lunged at the woman, put a 9mm semiautomatic handgun to her head and pulled the trig­ger, emptying the full clip, the cameraman said Tuesday. 
Nunez, 34, kept firing even after the woman fell to the ground, said police Lt. Lou Cavallo, who confirmed that Monday's shooting was on the tape. The woman, Maritza Martin-Munoz, 33, was dead at tla! scene. 
Nunez remained at large Tuesday, though his car was found. The Delray Beach man left his current wife and step­son behind at the cemetery; it wasn't clear whether they saw the shooting. 
Police returned the videotape to the Spanish-language Tele­mundo network program "Ocurrio Asi," or "It Happened Like This." The producer of the show -the Spanish equivalent of television programs like "Current Affair" and "Hard Copy" -said the footage would be aired Tuesday evening. 
Joandra Nunez, the 15-year­old daughter of Nunez and Martin, fatally shot herself in the chest on Thanksgiving. Cavallo said Nunez blamed Martin for ·their daughter's death, and that the woman feared him. 
On Monday, for an ,upcoming story, reporter Ingrid Cruz and cameraman Jorge Delgado were shooting footage of Nunez placing flowers on the grave at Queen of Heaven Cemetery in suburban North Lauderdale. 
Then, Martin showed up in a car. 
Nunez' current wife and stepson were sitting in his car, and he apparently told them to leave the area, Delgado said. 
Nunez got into his car and moved it so his ex-wife couldn't leave the parking lot, the re­porter and cameraman said. Martin then got out of her car, scribbled Nunez' license plate number on a piece of paper and headed into the cemetery, followed by the TV crew. 
"That's when the gentleman pushes Ingrid out of the way and shoots the woman point blank behind the head eight or nine limes.~· Delgado said. "He was shooting her in a circle. It was a 9mm and he unloaded the whole clip." 
"It was pure coincidence when she appeared at the cemetery," Cruz said. 


SENIORS 
Friday Lt111ch 
12-2 
t Your Club 
must be 21 
Endeavour heads home 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP) -Endeavour's astronauts packed up for the flight home today after a six-day shuttle mission that helped lay the groundwork for the space sta­tion and fire youngsters' imag­inations. 
NASA's first shuttle flight of 1993 included a 4 1/2-hour spacewalk to gain practice for the building of the space station in 1996, the release of a satel­lite to link spacecraft and Earth, and a demonstration for schoolchildren of how toys be­have in weightlessness. 
The orbiter was scheduled to land at sunrise at the place where the mission began on Wednesday, Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 
The five-member crew was awakened late Monday by a recording of "Ain't Misbe­havin."' 
Crew member Mario Runco told Mission Control he was "reluctant to come home, but willing." 
The flight was the first of eight shuttle missions planned for 1993 and the 53rd overall. 
The astronauts accomplished the main goal of their mission -releasing a $200 million tracking satellite -a few hours after liftoff. A network of such satellites allows spacecraft such as the shuttle remain in almost constant contact with Earth. 

On Sunday, Runco and Gre­gory Harbaugh took the first spacewalk by Americans in nearly a year. Runco and Har­baugh carried each other to give themselves practice in hauling bulky objects in space. They also tried out tools and compared different ways of moving -slide wires vs. handrails. 
The astronauts also said they were pleased with Endeavour's new $23 million toilet, which was mal. ng its first test flight. The ffiltcl•-criticized toilet has more auto:uatic features and greater capacity for longer flights, and crew members said they found it quieter and more convenient. 
On Earth, scientists exulted over data from an X-ray spec­trometer aboard the shuttle. Wilton Sanders, an astrophysi­cist, said the equipment may have picked up readings from a fairly recent supernova, or ex­ploding star. 
Days earlier, scientists feared the experiment was ruined, but ground controllers fixed one detector and got the other working at reduced capacity. 
Clinton averts Haitian exodus 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -Bill Clinton appears to have succeeded, for now, in averting an exodus of Haitian boat peo­ple, based on interviews with refugee and Coast Guard offi­cials, ordinary Haitians, and an aerial survey of the coast. 
But without the return of President Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide, it remains unclear how long Haitians, desperate for a better life, can be dissuaded" from attempting the dangerous voyage toward American shores. 
Clinton's decision last week to continue the quick return of boat people, coupled with a U.S. naval deployment off Haiti and a U.N.-brokered agreement among rival Haitian groups, appears to be discouraging Haitians from taking to the seas. 
Since Saturday, after the Coast Guard sent 22 ships to surround Haiti in Operation Able Manner, just one small boatload of 49 refugees has been picked up. 
Cutters were intercepting 

more than 1,000 Haitians a day last May, when President Bush first ordered the immediate repatriation of all boat people found at sea. 
In a three-hour aerial survey of part of the coast Monday, two Associated Press journalists found little to support earlier Coast Guard claims of massive boat-building. Some officials had said up to 250,000 Haitians would take to the sea after Clinton took office. 
No refugee craft were seen sailing in the eastern half of the Windward Passage -a narrow, choppy waterway that separates Haiti and Cuba and is a frequent refugee route. 
Nor were refugee vessels vis­ible for 50 miles northwest of La Tortue Island, another jumping-off point 
The only substantial boat­building was found on La Tortue, where 14 broad vessels were lined up along a stretch of the southern beach. Nine other big boats were being hammered together along the west coast of La Gonave. 
ST.IDIARD'S 
Jfaff:?fallers 
present 
Out Of The Frying Pan 
A comedy in three acts 
Washington Hall January 21, 22, 23 8:10p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune box office 
$32Q students $42Q non~students 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, January 20, 1993 
Bosnian Serb assembly debates peace plan; Fighting continues 
PALE, Bosnia-Herzegovina (API -A self-proclaimed par­liament of Bosnian Serbs met Tuesday to consider trading land and the right to their own borders for an end to Bosnia's bloody civil war. 
Bosnia's Muslim and Croat factions have accepted the pro­posal by international media­tors. Hejection by the Serbs could doom peace talks and lead to foreign military inter­vention in a con11ict that has killed at least 17,000 people. 
BittPr debates dragged on for hours before the session in Pale, just east of Sarajevo, adjourned. It was scheduled to resume at 9 
a.m. (3 a.m. EST) Wednesday. 
Supporters and opponents of the plan appeared to be about equally split. Bosnian Serb leader Hadovan Karadzic said the outcome would be close and he could not predict which way it would go. 
Seventy-one of the assembly's 81 members opened the plenary session with the old Serbian 
national  anthem,  "God  of  
Justice,"  and  a  moment  of  
silence for dead comrades.  

The proposal by mediators Cyrus Vance of the United Na­tions and Lord Owen of the Eu­ropean Community would di­vide the former Yugoslav re­public into 10 autonomous provinces. 
Under pressure from Yugoslav leaders, Karadzic accepted the plan a week ago in Geneva on condition that the Bosnian Serb assembly approve it. 
"On the one hand, the inter­national community is rattling its sabers," he said in his open­ing address. "On the other hand, it has made possible a political solution of the crisis. That is why the Geneva confer­ence represents the only hope for the war to end." 
Karadzic has said he will re­sign if the plan is rejected. He predicted the vote would be "very tight." 
The draft ineludes boundaries drawn partly along ethnic lines and nine constitutional princi­ples. It would mean the Serbs would have to give up their demand for a separate state within Bosnia and an eventual merger with neighboring, Serb­dominated Yugoslavia. 
The international community has warned Serbs to accept un­conditionally or risk military in­tervention. 
But even if they accept, an agreement to halt the fighting would not be assured. Karadzic contended Tuesday that the provincial borders were subject to negotiation. 
Talks in Geneva could resume by Thursday if the Bosnian Serbs approve the plan. Vance and Owen were to travel Wednesday to Sarajevo, but whether they would meet with Serb leaders was unclear. 
Some Serb officials said they might insist on three separate ethnic states, which Geneva negotiators and the Muslims have rejected. 
"If the assembly says 'yes,' that will mean that the Serbs in Bosnia will not have their state, and that was the reason why this war was fought," said Bil­jana Plavsic, one of Karadzic's two vice presidents. 
Assembly speaker Momcilo Krajisnik, warned, "We are now deciding between bad and worse, and either decision will have negative consequences for Serbs." Bosnia's Serb minority, backed initially by the Serb­dominated Yugoslav army, rebelled after the Muslim and Croat majority voted for independence last February. 
Serbs made up one-third of Bosnia's prewar population of 
4.3 million, but have seized 70 percent of its territory. 
Neighboring Yugoslavia, now composed of only Serbia and Montenegro, is under heavy 
U.N. economic sanctions for provoking the conflict and sup­porting the Serb fighters. 
Bosnian delegates arriving in Pale, the Serbs' political and military headquarters in Bosnia, were greeted by ban­ners reading, "Peace Through Agreement." 
But as they met, fighting continued across much of Bosnia, including Sarajevo. 
More shelling Tuesday hit the old town district of the Bosnian capital, under siege by Serb forces throughout the war. 
Fighting also was reported between Muslim-led govern­ment forces and Serbs in east­ern Bosnia. 

Fierce clashes between Croats ernment would try to have and Muslims in central Bosnia, Croatia blamed in the United which have been straining their Nations for escalating the con­uneasy alliance against superior flict. 
armed Serb forces in the 9­month-old war, subsided late Monday, .the Croatian Defense Ministry fn Zagreb reported Tuesday. 
However, the Bosnian gov­ernment said in a statement that there was no indication of the clashes abating. It said that unless they do halt, the gov-
REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE-­
PLEASE! 

\ 
finance Ctub Meeting 
Thursday, January 21 7:00p.m. 223 Hayes~Healy 
~to discuss events for this semester~ 
" 


Procter&Gamble 
"Procter & Gamble and Wal-Mart: A Partnership For Growth" 
Presented by Mr. Tom Muccio, The Procter & Gamble Company Director of Wal-Mart Customer Business Development 
Wednesday, January 20, 1993 6:00p.m. Pizza Party following Presentation 
Center for Continuing Education 1st Floor Auditorium 
Casual Dress Please 
Also meet representatives from P&G disciplines 

Wednesday, January 20, 1993 The Observer 
page 9 

Prince's engagement approved Israeli parliament cancels 
TOKYO (AP) -When Crown Prince Naruhito, heir to Japan's ancient Chrysanthemum Throne, first proposed to Masako Owada in May, the na­tion's most eligible bachelor got a surprising reply. 
Owada, no traditionally sub­servient Japanese female, wanted time to think. 
Repeated proposals later, she finally said yes. 
Today. the engagement be­came official with the unani­mous approval of the 10-mem­ber Imperial Council and the prince and his betrothed met the media for their first news conference -seated a decorous arm's length apart. 
"I had a very strong and good first impression of her," said the 32-year-old prince, who wore a dark blue suit to meet with reporters. "She is modest but she has her own opinions and she is intelligent. And we had many topics in common and she is fun to talk with." 
Owada. wearing a pale yellow suit, matching hat and pearls, said she admired the prince for being patient, courageous, considerate -and persistent. 
"He said that he will do his utmost to protect me for his entire life," she said. "So l felt I wanted to make him happy, if it was something I could do." The 20-minute news conference was carried live by all Japanese networks. 

Earlier, the networks had broken into regular program­ming to broadcast the official word on the engagement all Japan has been celebrating since its disclosure 13 days ago. 
The Imperial Council's ap­proval, although legally re­quired, is really a mere formal­ity. The council includes Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and other top figures from Japan's political and judicial realm. 
The government has yet to set the date, but Japanese media predict a May or early June wedding. 
The romance has given the Japanese something to look forward to amidst the country's worst recession in more than a decade. 
Naruhito, the eldest son of Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko, told reporters he per­sonally proposed Oct. 3 after failing to get a reply when a third party proposed for him in May. Owada accepted Dec. 12. 
The two had met in 1986 but their courtship was delayed by Owada's posting as a diplomatic attache in England. 
The 29-year-old Harvard-ed­ucated princess-to-be, a For­eign Ministry trade specialist, said during the news confer­ence that it was difficult to give up her career. 
"It would be a lie to say I feel no sadness about leaving the Foreign Ministry," she said. "But ... after I truly thought over many things, I felt that my role now was to accept the pro­posal from the prince and to make myself useful in my new life in the imperial household." 
"I have no regrets now," she added. 
Palace officials initially wor­ried about the links of Owada's grandfather with Chisso Corp., whose dumping of mercury in the 1950s is blamed for crip­pling or killing thousands of people. 
But Naruhito refused to budge. 
"In marriage, the crown prince's feelings are funda­mental," said Palace Grand Steward Shoichi Fujimori. 
Instead of rings and vows, the couple will exchange sips of rice wine before a palace shrine to the sun goddess Amaterasu to seal their marriage. According to legend, Japan's imperial line descended from the sun goddess. 
The government plans to de­clare the wedding day a na­tional holiday, mint commemo­rative gold coins and announce a general pardon for people convicted of some minor crimes. 
Owada will be only the third commoner to marry a prince. Empress Michiko was the first in 1959. 
How many children do they want? 
"I would leave it to the chance of the stork," Naruhito said. 

AWave oi Change? 

ban on meetings with PLO 
JERUSALEM (AP) -In what could be a boost to Middle East peace talks, lawmakers on Tuesday abolished a 7 -year-old law barring Israelis from meeting with members of the PLO. 
The 39-20 vote in the 120­member parliament followed four hours of debate in which the right-wing opposition vainly tried to water down the gov­ernment bill. Many legislators left after it became clear the government would win. 
But Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin opposed such contacts and it was not immediately clear if he would resist the de­cision of his Labor Party. 
Tuesday's vote annulled a 1986 amendment to Israel's anti-terror law which barred Israelis from meeting with members of terror organiza­tions. Israel classifies the PLO as such a group. 
In Tunis, Tunisia, the Pales­tine Liberation Organization welcomed the decision and also appealed to President-elect Clinton to restore contacts with the organization. 
PLO spokesman Bassam Abu­Sharif praised the vote as "a new, real and serious step towards establishing a just and comprehensive peace in the region." 
He renewed a call to Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Perez to meet with PLO officials with a view to preparing a "summit" between PLO chairman Vasser Arafat and Rabin. 
The vote could help Israel in its effort to stem the rising in­fluence of Muslim fundamental­ists, who oppose peace talks and vie with the PLO to lead Arab in the occupied territory. 
Liberal legislator Dedi Zucker said he expected Tuesday's vote would help "create a better atmosphere for the peace talks. This will also counter the demonization of the PLO prac­ticed here for so many years." 
Hanan Ashrawi, spokeswoman for the Pales­tinian delegation to the peace talks, said Israel's action will "go a long way toward creating a better understanding of the PLO ... and improving chances for peace." 

However, the Palestinians remain determined to boycott peace talks until Israel repa­triatiates more than 400 Pales­tinians it expelled last month to south Lebanon, Mrs. Ashrawi said. 
Israel says those exiled were Muslim fundamentalists who endangered Israeli security and the peace talks. 
The stalemate is the latest in Israel's negotiations with Palestinians and Arab neigh­bors Jordan, Syria and Lebanon since they began in late October 1991. 
Israeli peace activist Abie Nathan, who was imprisoned more than a year for making PLO contacts, said he would fly to Tunis on Wednesday to meet with Arafat to ask him for a conciliatory gesture toward Is­rael. 
"This is a very serious step we took, and I hope he will do something in return to maintain the momentum," Nathan told Israel radio. 
Israeli liberals have increas­ingly called for direct negotia­tions with the PLO to strengthen Palestinian moderates who support the Mideast peace talks. 
A recent survey indicated nearly half of Israeli legislators favor direct talks with the PLO, including two-thirds of the lawmakers from the Labor Party. 
But Rabin remains staunchly opposed, arguing such contacts would force Israel to deal im­mediately with Palestinian de­mands for establishing an in­dependent state in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Israel is committed to first negotiating an interim settle­ment of Palestinian autonomy before discussing the final sta­tus of the occupied lands. 
Rabin has turned down re­peated offers by Arafat to meet. Several Labor legislators have met with Arafat, however, pro­tected from prosecution only by their parliamentary immunity. 
It's your turn. 

Mandatory Meeting
The 1993 

for all those interested in
Social Concerns Festival performing at the
Thursday, January 21st 7-10 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 

INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
Over 40 service clubs and community organizations will be represented. 

on January 21n 1993 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
Change cannot begin without you ... 
8:00p.m.
1·800·321·5911 

at the International Student Lounge 
Questions?
Mass in memory of 
Call Jeremy: 41770 or Siggy: 41877
Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler 
+ 
ND/SMC SENiORS 
January 24, 1993 
SENioR MoNTH STARTS Now! 
11:45 a.m. 
GET INvolvEd!
Sacred Heart 
Pick up ApplicATioNs
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Presider 
AT ThE INfoRMATioN DEsk iN LAFoRTUNE 
All are welcome to come 
ANd AT ThE HAGGAR FRoNT DEsk. 
give thanks for the lives of Meghan and Colleen 
DEAdliNE: WEdNESdAy AT 5:00 p.M.
and to pray for the continued healing of their families and friends 
QuEsTioNs? CAll ChRis..-6~4... ~486 OR SEAN... 6~4..-1654 
·-------~----------~----.. 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Wednesday, January 20, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor... Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631 -4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

We must give as we receive 
Most members of the dass of 1962 managed to graduate from Notre Dame without con­sciously participating in any form of community service. Today students may still grad­uate without participating in community service, but it may be safe to say that no one leaves Notre Dame without an awareness of such service and the importance attached to it by the University. Three years ago that same awareness became institutionalized within the Alumni Association by the formal establishment of a community service committee as part of the Alumni Board. 
The Mission Statement of this committee states "The Notre Dame Alumni Community Ser­vice Program provides the op­portunity for and encourages participation in programs through which Notre Dame Alumni can fulfill this commit­ment (to the continued devel­opment of programming de­signed to foster a lifetime of ed­ucation and awareness, and to bring alumni talents to bear on those elements of society in nend of assistance). 
Our vision encompasses two central components -aware­ness: a focus on sharpening the consciousness of alumni to distinct areas of need; and ac­tion: a focus on empowering alumni to work as volunteers to foster positive change in their local communities." 
As a member of the class of 1962 it is this writer's privilege this year to chair the Alumni Assoeiation's community service committee. This committee of the Alumni Association Board of Directors and Peter Prancia '86 of the Alumni Association have set in motion an effort that has virtually leapt from infancy to adulthood without touching adolescence. 
DOONESBURY 
Jack Curtin '62 
The Alumni Column 
Notre Dame is already at the forefront of what is a national trend toward the development of the opportunity for members of society in general and col­lege-educated citizens in par­ticular, to help one another. Our Alumni Association is re­garded by similar associations from schools all over the coun­try as one of the primary re­sources for any group wishing to organize a community ser­vice program. Such recognition reflects well on all of us as individuals but more impor­tantly, it heightens our sense of responsibility here at Notre 

I CAN'T11C61N TO 7lU YCV
50HW'Vt. 
WHAT ITMt:ANS 7D M& 70
YOUBI3CN, 
&XC/TEO! SER.VE UIITH 7HI5 AOMINI­
JOAN/C.? 
57l?ATION, MAI?AM "'-./ \ ATTlJRNe/(3&NERAJ..I 
Dame to advance the cause of service. 
As more students graduate from Notre Dame and bring their awareness of service or commitment to it back to their "' hometowns or wherever they eventually reside, the backbone •-'''-"'"""""' of the alumni effort will be strengthened. So too will the· -·.....,.""' real depth of the meaning of service be plumbed. The en­thusiastic youth of the class of ;;,;~~ti'l' 1993 will aid the curmudgeon /-~,., 
from '58 in understanding how service connects us together in faith and action, how we con­nect to society and our fellow man, and how it assists us in fulfilling the mission of Notre Dame. 
As part of the Sesquicenten­nial celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night the Alumni Association gave to the Univer­sity a gift of service -Humani­tarian Week. 
Hundreds of alumni from alumni clubs across the country planned and executed commu­nity service efforts which touched the lives, however briefly, of the homeless, hungry, abused and misunderstood. The awareness engendered that week and the scope of the commitment in light of society's growing ills encourages all of us to work harder and do better. As our ranks are swelled by future graduates our horizons will expand and our volunteer force will grow. 
We invite the students of to­day to join us as the alumni of tomorrow and lead our parade, reminding us of the call to serve others, to give as we have received. 
Jack Curtin is a third year member of the National Alumni Board of Directors from Cam­bridge, Massachusetts. 
JOANIE, I'MJI.J5T Yf1JROW 
CIA93­
/ ~­
' I ' 
4' ~ 
~ 
· / ~ 
. -::.:-4'; 
J ~...­

Social Concerns Festival to take place tomorrow 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to encourage ev­eryone to go to the Social Con­cerns Festival on Thursday the 21st from 7 to 10 p.m. 
Just stop by the Center for Social Concerns for five minutes on your way home from the 'brare (hope you're starting the semester off right!) and get some info from a few groups you'd like to volunteer with this semester. 
There will be at least 40 clubs and organizations represented. Perhaps last semester was a bit hectic with crazy schedules and heaps of work. But you handled it, right? Now that you're so skillful at managing your time, can't you spare 1 to 2 hours a week to help someone out? Be­lieve me, you'll benefit as much as the person whom you're helping. My freshman year, I got involved with the mentally handicappPd at Logan Center. 

I have given to others and re­ceived so much in return. It re­ally is a great feeling to go bowling with the handicapped on a Friday, after an eternal week of tests and anxieties, and to just laugh and have fun. I would encourage everyone to try volunteering and to see all the benefits that are to be had. 
Perhaps we should all take Bertha von Suttner's insight to heart, when she said, "After the verb 'to love,' 'to help' is the most beautiful verb in the world." Why don't you give Bertha's advice the "ole college try?" I know you won't be sorry. 
Allison Zima Badin Hall Jan. 18, 1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YeAH, 8UT YCV tut3R& ON 7HE GI(AC{JA770N 

'Nearly all men can stand
COMM/77lil3! t.va<f­ON& UKEP Yf1J 8f35T.I 

adversity, but if you want to test
{}/{}I JU§T54Y i 7HAF 

a man's character, give him power.' 
Abraham Lincoln 

QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Since election day, Washing­ton has been abuzz over the new administration's makeup as details become public. Washingtonians are worse than Las Vegas bookmakers when it comes to speculation and "what if" scenarios. Few here can overcome the addiction of politics unless they are abruptly severed by scandal or an election loss. thus forcing a "cold turkey" treatment. 
Regardless of party affiliation, regardless of who wins the presidency, one thing remains constant -the inauguration day process. Bands will play. Sol­diers will march. People will crowd the lawn of the Capitol for the swearing-in ceremony, then pack the sidewalks of Pennsylvania Avenue for the parade. The evening will climax the day with several black tie balls at various hotels throughout the city. 
If. as John Kennedy said. the torch was passed to a new gen­eration in 1961, then several barriers steeped in tradition will fall in 1993. This year's in­augural parade will mark a new beginning for several par­ticipants who make their first appearance in the three hour event. Some of the more un­conventional include an Elvis Presley impersonator and an a cappella group called the Wellesley Widows that will sing Madonna's "Like a Prayer." 
In addition, several perform­ers will entertain the crowd in the gap between the swearing­in ceremony at noon and the start of the parade at 2:30 PM. They include the Lesbian and Gay Band of America, the Steele Pulse regg~!,l;~and, and a lawn chair precision drill team. Nobody would have dared suggest these participants four years ago. 
In fact. in 1989 I had the op­portunity to represent Notre Dame and march with the In­diana float. It was an event like no other I ever experienced. For 
Viewpoint

Wednesday, January 20, 1993 page 11 
Inaugural parade marks end of chapter in history 


By Gary J. Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
me, it began immediately after the swearingin ceremony when the parade participants reported to a tent on the Mall. The Secret Service waved hand­held metal detectors over everyone, examined cameras for moving parts, and searched purses or book bags. Then we waited while the new president ate lunch with Congressional representatives in the Capitol. 
Eventually our float arrived at its designated place in line on Fourth Street, and we then waited next to it. Grand Mar­shall Bob Hope waited on his float near us, so we chatted and took pictures to pass the time. Finally, jet fighters flew over the Mall to begin the parade, and the president's motorcade proceeded from the Capitol along Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House. 
Earlier that day I had been just another unknown face in the crowd of an event at which the entire world watched. Kevin Costner and Donald Trump were among the notables I recognized in the section between the Capitol and me. Now I was part of the attraction with people focused on our float the Vice-President's home 
stat({sfloat. -· ,. Turning the corner from Fourth Street onto Pennsylvania Avenue was awe-inspiring. The avenue on which I traveled daily to work dwarfed the divi­sions of marching soldiers. It reminded me of the World War 11 newsreels that showed Allied 
troops marching into Paris. Nine traffic lanes with all barri­ers and traffic light poles re­moved gave the appearance of an airport runway. The addition of thousands of people on either side added the allusion of it running to the horizon. 
People who liked Notre Dame yelled at me, "Go Irish" or other greetings ND fans would yell to the leprechaun as he passes on campus. However, most of the route was a blur to me. I remember that it was cold, but the slight uphill incline at the Treasury Department building impressed me because it tired me. What I most remember was the moment we arrived at the reviewing stand. 
The Quayles rose to their feet first as we approached the presidential box. The presi­dent's family then rose and waved while making remarks to the Quayles. I shot a few pic­tures and hoped that I was in the television camera's angle, knowing that my VCR was recording at home. 
As it turned out, I made the television angle and am part of a tape that now sits at home on a shelf next to a few Notre Dame bowl game tapes. It does not show how quickly the pa­rade dissipated two blocks from the White House. Nor does it show the preparation or hard work that precedes all inaugu­ral parades. It certainly does not show how exhausted I was by parade's end. 
This year's parade prepara­tions began like any previous year. Participants were booked, routes selected, and lodging and transportation arranged. Last weekend. th~ military ran through a dress rehearsal of the event in a snowstorm. It was funny to see a marine carrying a "Miss America" sign and two women walking along the street as Bill and Hillary Clinton. But that was routine for the preparation part of the process. 
Throughout the early weeks 
-~ -~-~ 

------.... 
of January I traveled on Penn­sylvania Avenue to work. Each morning new construction pro­jects caught my eye. The bleachers, snow fences, and police barriers were the first to appear. Repaving portions of the avenue caused a few traffic delays, but that only happens every four years. 
Capitol Hill also transformed before my eyes. After the plat­form at the Capitol was com­pleted, the square-topped win­dows .and doorways gradually magically transformed into curved arches. Then the flags and bunting, one by one, brightened the white building behind the platform. The plan proceeded on schedule as it does every inauguration. 
Usually, only the faces of the participants change in the in­augural process. This year sev­eral new, first-time organiza­tions will march in the parade. With their inclusion comes the signal that the new president means to make a change from the past. Some will cheer, and some will fret. In time it will mean little, except for those who mark their political emer­gence by their inclusion in the new administration's makeup. 
This inaugural parade marks the end of another chapter of our country's history. 

The new chapter begins today with unique characteristics. Most political junkies expect the Clinton presidency to close sev­eral other chapters while scripting new verse in the 1990's. If the inaugural parade 
­is any indication of the next four years, those political crap shooters will be rolling "sevens" and liking it. 
Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of the University ofNotre Dame and now works in Washington, 
D. C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the United States House of Representatives. His column appears every other Wednesday. 


Money isn't the only factor 
Dear Editor: 
I write to explain how Profes­sor Manier's "Left Jab" column of January 15 missed its target. As sure as the sun rarely shines during a South Bend winter, the liberal academician blamed the wrong cause. 
To begin with, I would hardly contest Professor Manier's premise that generally speak­ing, primary and secondary education in this country is in a deplorable state for most stu­dents. 
Beyond that, however, the 
one spends $7,550. 
Wrong Professor Manier, Iowa spends the lesser amount. In fact, New Jersey, New York, and 
D.C. are the top three spenders per student on education, and their students respectively rank 39th, 42nd, and 50th nationally. (Walter Williams, September 2, 1992). 
Want an example closer to Notre Dame? Well, Byron, Illi­nois (which enjoys a tax base fortified by a nuclear power plant) spends twice as much per student as Mount Morris, 
Summer Service Projects 
respect much the same ig­

provide a 'viable
nominy as Washington, D.C. does as a big spender-pitiful re­sults kind of town. (Chapman). 

alternative' to usual jobs
Finally, University of Rochester economist Eric 

Dear Editor: Yet one need not have an in­Hanushek, who reviewed 187 As everyone knows, summer terest in psychology to partici­studies on the subject, con­jobs and internships are hard pate; a wide variety of projectscluded, "There is no strong or to come by. Rather than settling is available throughout the 
systematic relationship between for another mundane job, there country. In addition, each pro­school expenditures and is another alternative, one ject worker earns a $1400 student performance." which relatively few students scholarship toward tuition,
(Chapman). 

consider: a Summer Service provided either by the local 
As I stipulated at the begin­Project. Alumni club or the Andrews ning, I do agree with the phi­I did a project this past sum­Scholarship Fund. losophy professor's premise. My mer, and it was a wonderful 
professor and I could hardly Illinois, and also pays its teach­remedy, however, would involve experience. I worked in an all­Summer Service Projectsdisagree more. ers 50 percent more than does School Choice, Tuition male high school for troubled provide a viable alternative to ­Most Democrats' first reaction Mount Morris. Guess who wins Vouchers, and prayer for a re­teenagers, both in the class­the usual host of summer jobs. to a problem is to drown it with the college boards competition? turn to the days when kids had room and with the school coun­Applications are available in 
greenbacks. In the field of pre­Mount Morris. (Stephen Chap­two loving parents teaching selor and psychologist. Not only the Center for Social Concerns, college education, that solution man, October 15, 1992). them to read, write, and per­did I have the opportunity to and will soon be made is virtually worthless. In fact, average college en­form times tables right along serve the boys with whom I available in every dorm. The 
Iowa's students rank 1st trance exam scores in the ten with their teachers. No amount worked, but I also learned deadline for applications is Feb. among all states (and the na­Illinois school districts with the of money can substitute for much myself, both about social 12. tion's capital) on the SAT and highest spending on education that. problems in general and about Washington, D.C.'s rank 50th. are nearly in a dead heat with Frank T. Pimentel my future profession as a psy­Alicia Caputo One of those jurisdictions those of the ten lowest spending Law School chologist in particular. The ex­Siegfried Hall spends $4,344 per student and districts. Chicago suffers in this Jan. 18,1993 perience was invaluable. Jan.18,1993 
Accent 

page 12 Wednesday.jJanuary 20, 1993 
.. 
-

Bill Rosemann 
SUCKING THE MARROW OF LIFE 
I am four­eyed, hear me roar 
ast week, James F. Longenecker,
L 
practicing 0.0. at South Bend's Pearle Vision Express, consulted the results of my eye exam, looked me solemnly in the face, and asked, "You mean you've never worn glasses?" 
"I didn't think I needed them," I 
replied, "and I don't want to be 
called-(shudder)-four eyes." 
"Now just a minute thern-think of all the 
upstanding ptmple with glasses who made this 
country what it is today. What about Ben 
Franklin? What about Malcolm X? What 
about-" 
My mind began to wander, and traveling down 
the road of human achievement, I stumbled 
upon: 
TilE FOUR-EYED HALL OF FAME 
MARCIE: Peppermint Patty's personal attache could always infuriate Patty with a well placed "sir." She won my heart when she apologized for Patty's outburst over Charlie Brown's pop­corn/pretzel stick/jelly bean/toast Thanksgiving feast. Hers is an intelligence and grace matched in Peanuts only by Linus or Schroder. Forget the Little Red Haired Girl, Chuck-she's vacu­ous-btmeath Marcie's specs burns true fire. 
MIKE MILLS: R.E.M.'s bassist may not have Michael Stipe's angelic looks, but he plays a mean chord and sang swell on "Superman." 
CLARK KENT: Speaking of the Man of Steel, Clark's disguise is a work of genius. Imagine if he forgot and bought a pair of contacts. Jimmy Olsen: "Gee Superman. what are you doing in Mr. Kent's suit? Are you trying to trick Lex Luthor?" 
VELMA: Scooby Doo's own Mr. Magoo (another cool person with glasses). How many times did she grope around, whining, "I can't find my glasses," and bump into the monster? 
SIMON: He ruled the Land of the Chalk Drawings (on "Captain Kangaroo") and had a neat theme song: "Well you know my name is Simon, and the things I draw come true..." 
SCOOTER: Kermit only thought he was in control of "The Muppet Show," but it was Scooter who wielded true power. But did you ever notice how his eyes grew out of his glasses-eerie. 
ELVIS COSTELLO: l once read that music critics like Costello because he looks like one of them. I think he looks like Buddy Holly. 
r.LG..G.Y: Okay, I'll admit that if I was stuck on an island with him like the kids of "The Lord of the Flies" I'd get sick of his whining too-but did he deserve to get squished by a boulder? 
TEDDY DUCIIAMP: He was the crazy one in "Stand By Me" with the burned ear and who wanted to storm the beaches of Normandy. When Chris Chambers, played by a pre­pubescent-yet-still-virile River Phoenix, called him a "four-eyed pile of shit," he came back with the classic, "a pile of shit has a thousand eyes." 
JORUI LAFORGE: Every time I watch him on "Star Trek: The Next Generation" I giggle. I don't care if he does have that funky visor and is Chief Engineer, I still say, "Hey, isn't that La Var Burton from 'Reading Rainbow'?" 
(Note: I refuse to include Brainy Smurf with this group of goggled gods-Brainy was a pretentious twit who deserved to be eaten alive by Gargamel or his nappy catAzreal.) 
After touring these hallowed halls, I thanked Dr. Longenecker for his wisdom, and picked out a fashionable pair of frames made by Wrangler (whose western-stitched jeans never fade). I walked forth from the store, whistling Simon's theme song and embracing a rich heritage. 
Bill Rosemann is a regular columnist at The Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 
Legendary hoops 

... : ......... ' ' .;~r. //y,. 
~ 
~-~ 

ND alum records historY of Bo6kSlO?ff"' Basketball in forthcoming book 
By KENYA JOHNSON Assistant Accent Editor 
John Doe dribbles furiously down the asphalt lane, soars toward the basket in his Air Jordans, and SLAM DUNK-the bleacher crowd roars and students jump off their couches in Walsh and Sorin to catch the action. The glorious motions of basketball season are back and the traditional tournament of Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball, in which previously anonymous students get the chance to establish their athletic prowess, will soon begin. 
All Domers know what Bookstore basketball is and most have gone to at least one game-there are even those who have been loyal enough to follow certain teams throughout the tour­nament. But what is really known about the story of Bookstore Basketball? 
Besides the fact that nearly 750 teams (which spend more time thinking of clever team names than actually playing basketball) are formed and play basketball in either a very serious manner, or a very intoxi­cated one, what does anyone know about the origin and development of the tournament? 
This is the same question Mary Beth Sterling had nearly five years ago­the same question which inspired her to write a book about Bookstore Basketball. 
Sterling, a 1981 Notre Dame graduate, was involved in Bookstore Basketball throughout her four years here. In her freshmen year (the year Sports Illustrated did a feature on Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball) Sterling approached Leo Latz, the commissioner of the tournament at that time and volunteered her time to help. Latz accepted her offer and appointed Sterling score keeper and put her in charge of North Quad for the tournament. 

"''d help out as much as I could and usually was left behind cleaning up and collecting all the scores," said Sterling. "After Latz saw my willingness to help, he made me executive commissioner for North Quad the next three years." 
Sterling graduated and went on to pursue her MBA at the University of Chicago. She said that whenever she came back in the spring to watch the tournament she was always amazed by the growth of interest, by both participants and fans, in Bookstore Basketball. 
"I began to wonder different things about Bookstore Basketball," Sterling explained. "What's drawing more people to watch these games? How do people think of their team names? I just got real curious about the whole thing," she said. 
Sterling said the idea of writing a book came to her nearly five years ago, but with work and graduate 
school  she  was  unable  to  start  
anything.  
"I started hearing about a  lot of  

Notre Dame books being published and would have just been sick if someone wrote about the same idea I've been thinking about for so long, so I finally just started the book," Sterling explained. 
Most of her research was completed through mail correspondence and telephone interviews. Sterling said she mailed nearly 670 letters to alumni, referees, champion teams, and a variety of other sources. 
"I was actually impressed with the responses," Sterling said. "I received about 275 letters back and quite a few phone calls. It seemed people were really interested in my project-they were very willing to help out." 
Sterling collected information about the 21 years of Bookstore Basketball mostly through accounts of other people. 
"There are a lot of funny stories, some very personal and others just a riot," she said. "With all the different perspectives I feel I was able to create a complete work on the subject." 
One of Sterling's favorite responses was from Notre Dame alumnus Steve Beuerlein who is presently on his way to the Super Bowl as the second string quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys. 
Beuerlein, while at Notre Dame, was on the infamous "Tequila White Lightening" team which made it to the "Sweet Sixteen" competitions twice, winning the entire Bookstore Bas­ketball tournament in 1984. 
"It was amazing to me that he actually responded, especially during the football season," said Sterling. "It's that kind of cooperation that is making this project all possible." 
Sterling's book, which is not yet titled, will have special features on various aspects of Bookstore Basketball such as the women's tournament, the alumni tournaments, the creative team names, the referees, the weather component, and a special section devoted to known teams such as "Tequila White Lightening," and "PB & J." 
Sterling has spent the past year working on her book. She hopes to have the work done and published by this year's Bookstore Basketball tournament. 

-
The Observer page 13
Wednesday, January 20,1993 
Basketball bids farewell to the legendary Henry lba 

STILLWATER, Okla. (AP) -A longtime friend of Henry Iba remembered the coaching giant as a person of great character who loved his players, the state and Oklahoma State University. 
"When you were around him, you realized 'This is a giant. This is a man of tremendous character,"' Bill Connors, sports editor of The Tulsa World, said Monday in his eulogy for lba. 
"The beauty of Mr. lba was that he didn't think he was special, but we know better," Connors said. "And I doubt that we'll ever know another like him." 
Iba died of heart failure Fri­day at age 88. He coached in more college games than any­one in history, 1,105, and his 767 victories at three schools are second-most in college history. He also coached the 
U.S. Olympic team three times, winning gold medals in 1964 and 1968 and a disputed silver in 1972. 
Mike Krzyzewski of Duke, Norm Stewart of Missouri and Don Haskins of Texas-El Paso were among the present and former coaches who attended the 40-minute funeral service inside Gallagher-Iba Arena, site of many victories during lba's 36 years as the Cowboys' coach. 
Several members of the Okla­homa State basketball team at­tended the funeral, as did former U.S. Rep. Wes Watkins, Lt. Gov. Jack Mildren and former baseball great Allie Reynolds. 
Other coaches on hand in­cluded current Oklahoma State coach Eddie Sutton, Charlie Spoonhour of St. Louis, Rob Evans of Mississippi and former Kansas State coach Jack Hartman. 
"It's become abundantly clear that during his journey in this life, Mr. Iba has been a neigh­bor to many, many persons," said Rev. James P. Gragg, pastor of First United Methodist Church. "He invested himself in helping others become the very best they could become. 
"He was genuinely interested 
in other people becoming sue­cessful." 

Connors, who had known Iba since 1949, spoke of lba's love for the university and the state of Oklahoma. He said lba was proud of any other school that hired one of his former players or assistant coaches. 
Sixteen men who played or coached under lba went on to become college head coaches, including Haskins, Sutton and Hartman. All three were either pallbearers or honorary pall­bearers Monday. 
"While they may have lived by the lash in practices or games, he loved his players," Connors said. "There just wasn't a thing he wouldn't do for his players, this state and the school." 
He said the state had great re­spect for Iba as well, as shown by the fact each major univer­sity in Oklahoma had hired someone with connections to lba -his brother Clarence coached at Tulsa; Doyle Par­rack, who played under lba, coached at Oklahoma City Uni­versity and the University of Oklahoma. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FOUND: A 1993 men's class ring. It  3 BEDROOM HOUSE  SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93!  
NOTICES  was found in the bathroom on the 3rd floor in LaFortune. If the ring is  $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM  Please Help!!  JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE  Help! They're hurting me!-Milha  
yours, you can pick it up between  232-3616  I need 1-4 Duke/NO  GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY,  
Bam -4pm, Mon-Fri.  •  Basketball tix for Feb.6!!  LIMITED SPACE.  
HUNGRY LIKE THE WOLF. OJ SERVICE  LOST: Key Chain with 2 keys. Chain contains bronze dolphin, red  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. FURNISHED ROOM.  Please call X2384 ASAP Thanks!!  SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. '"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS!  Congrats, Many! Get ready to head for the fun and sun! -Nell  - 
FEATURING THE BEST IN EARLY EIGHTIES ROCK-N-ROLL  Swiss Army knife, compass, and a flashlight. Great Sentimental Value. Call Kevin at X1761  $170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. 287-2159.  Need 4 Duke GA's 4 or 2 and 2 Matt#1190  BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249,  
BUT THAT'S NOT ALL!!!!!I  Near N.D. quaint, clean furnished apts.  KENTUCKY GAME  DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459,  To James and Nimi, You certainly didn't think that I  
THE EVER EXPANDING MUSIC SELECTION IS GUARANTEED TO SATISFY A WIDE RANGE OF TASTES--FROM COUNTRY TO NEW WAVE. REGGAE TO RAP  Lost: Girls "Kubasaki H.S." class ring and mens gold neck chain during the nile of the snowball fight most likely on South Quad. Huge sentimental value. REWARD. Please call Ryan @x1691.  1 bedrm-240 2 bedrm-280 deposit, references 1-800-582-9320. 2, 3, & 6 BEDROOM HOMES  NEED4 TIX $$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE @ 1719 I need DUKE & KENTUCKY  JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. SPRING BREAK "93" with COLLEGE TOURS CANCUN $459 Air, Hotel, Parties, Nightly  would forget about you both, did you. Sorry for the gross oversight in last semester's personals. Forgive me. You are both awesome. Rich  
THE MUSIC SELECTION IS CONSTANTLY UPDATED IN RESPONSE TO COMMON REQUESTS AND NEW RELEASES  Found: Ladies watch in 127 NSH on 1-13-93. Call 233-4925 to identify.  NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW AND NEXT FALL. 272-6306 BEAUTIFUL FURNISHED, 2 BED HOUSE FOR RENT FOR $3.05/pm.  tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris x1235. NEED ONE TICKET TO THE DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL  Entertainment! Interested in traveling for free? Become a College Tours Representative. For more information & reservations call:  Roses are red, Violets are blue, We love you Emo,  
FOR ANY OCCASION. 'HUNGRY LIKE THE WOLF' OJ SERVICE HAS THE MUSIC FOR YOU!  Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring About size 4 1/2 or 5 . Pinky Ring. Please Call Amy x4530  Call 8562  PAULA X2581 PLEASE HELP  LOUIE 1-800-395-4896.  And miss you too! Happy Valentine's Day Down Under! Love, Casey, Autry & Kristen  
CALL KEN AT 277-4103 THANK YOU GOURMET BURGER DAY THURSDAY DINNER JANUARY 21, 1993 4:45 -6:45 P.M. NOH & SOH TYPING 287-4082 ''NDCIBD BOARD OF DIRECTORS, Old and New" You will meet tonight in the Foster Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune at8:15 p.m. Be there! Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 NO Ave & Howard RAPID WORDPROCESSING Call Lori at 271-0754 50,000,000 CAMPUS BANDS: soon to open S-track analog recording studio will be offering demo tape recording for approx. $25 per song. Looking for interested bands. Call Tim at 289-2482 for more details. ILOST & FOUND I  LOST: HANOWA watch at BRIDGET'S on Thursday of final's week-black band, white face, small seconds hand. IF FOUND, CALL TREY at X1453 WANTED CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 Need Kentucky b-balltix$X4890 SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-START NOW Top environmental/educational company interviewing now for part­time and full-time opportunities. Call 232-7785 for details. DRUMMER needed to play all kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273 I FOR RENT FOR RENT: 4 bed/2bath house on Corby St. (walking distance to NO) available as soon as June for 93/94 year. Call Kevin (317) 685-2926 Bed and Breakfast for NO-St. Mary's families in private home. 2  FOR SALE 1990 Nissan Sentra XE, 2DR, 5 SPD, PS, AM-FM Stereo, 34K mi, $5950. Call 277-4601 after 6PM. Stereo for sale. Dual cassette, turntable, AM-FM stereo. Graphic equalizer. Needs speakers. Call Sandy at 233-2407. I TICKETS WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814 WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA:s or Student! Call Chris X-1235 NEED 2 tickets to Kentucky game -call Aaron x1764 Who's your basketball coach?!  I NEED 3 DUKE TIX WILLPAY OR TRADE KENT. TIX CALL TIM X3893 NEED 2 DUKE TICKETS DARRIN #3107 For Sale: One Way ticket to Tampa/St.Petersburg, FL. Good for one year. Best offer. Call Chris @ 273-2958. I PERSONAL The Student Activities Office is hiring students for their building set up crew. If you are interested, pick up an application at315 LaFortune. For more information call631-7308. NROTC Mids: Wish Lt. "War Hero" Jenista POP FARLEY 1993! How about a FABULOUS, INEXPENSIVE DINNER outside of the dining hall? Come to the CSC tonight, Wednesday, Jan. 20, between 5 and 7. El Buen Vecino, a program for low-income Hispanic families, will be hosting a Mexican dinner at $3.50 a plate. Bring a friend!  Anyone interested in tutoring at the South Bend Juvenile Detention Center Please attend an informational meeting in the Center for Social Concerns on Wed., Jan. 20 at 7:30PM Desperately seeking GA's for UK/NO basketball game! If you can help please call Missy at 284-5260 FOR ALL OF YOU NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONERS WHO THINK THAT YOU ARE BASKETBALL PLAYERS OR WEIGHTLIFTERs-GO BACK TO PLAYING VIDEO GAMES AND QUIT TAKING UP SPACE SO THAT THE REGULARS CAN DO THEIR THING. SUMMER JOB FAIR! JACC MONOGRAM ROOM -WED., JAN. 20-1-5 P.M. MEET WITH COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES AND DISCUSS SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES. BRING COPIES OF YOUR RESUME. TODAY-SUMMER JOB FAIR JACC MONOGRAM ROOM 1-5 P.M. BRING COPIES OF RESUMES. ALL MAJORS WELCOME. SUMMER  Jen (our dear RA) and Coli, Keep up the good work! Remember, gossip is good, natural and healthy. Can't wait to play Topple again. Love, Bias Rich, Hello! Thanks for helping out where my lameo staff has failed! · Love, Jeanne Cricky, Kathy, and Kerg-­HI! Remember to always breathe through your noses!! Have a nice day, today and everyday! Love PEGGY Dear BRYAN, You are NEATO! Je t'aime Love MOl DEAR PEGGY, DITIO  
LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI X4209. FOUND: Watch in parking lot behind stadium. Black band with gold face. Call x3447  Bedrooms (twins) and I bedroom (single) with separate bath -10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood -JPW, graduation, etc. weekends -Reasonable -234­2626 Reserve '93-94 yr. 1628 Portage. 6 bedrm. Beach V-ball ct. 234-3831, 273­0482  Who's your basketball coach?! Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 basketballtix to the Kentucky WildCATastrophe due to take place in the month de amor. Be a pal, samaritan, or whatever and sell him the tickets or one of his Italian relatives might pay you a-visit. Then the time for haggling will be over. Call Skip at x2052 and leave a message if he ain't around.  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597.  INTERNSHIPS/OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL MAJORS. DISCUSS SUMMER EMPLOYMENT WITH COMPANY REPS. COUNSELORS AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS REGARDING SUMMER INTERNSHIPS. BRING COPIES OF RESUME. TO THE JACC MONOGRAM ROOM 1-5 P.M. TODAY!  MICH THANKS FOR THE STAMPS KEN LOVE B  

·· ."' r n• · v1sllnst. ·• · : 


-
.~· 
-
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
AU11nllc  Dlvlelon  
w  L  
NewYOik  22  14  
N_J.,.ey  22  15  
Boeton  20  19  
Orlando  16  18  
Philadelphia  14  20  
Washington  11  25  
Miami  10  24  
Central  Dlvlelon  
ChiCIIQO  26  11  
Cleveland  22  15  
Chmlone  17  17  
Indiana  18  1 9  
Atlante  17  18  
Detroit  17  18  
Milwaukee  14  21  

WESTERN CONFERENCE MldwHI Dlvlelon 
Utah San Antonio Houston Denver Minnesota DaUaa Pacific lllvlelon Phoenix saan1e Portland LA Lakera LA Cllppera Golden Stale Sacramento 
w  L  
24  11  
21  13  
19  16  
10  24  
7  25  
2  30  
25  7  
25  10  
23  11  
19  18  
1 9  18  
18  19  
14  20  

Pet. .811 
.5115 
• 513 
.500 
.412 
.306 
.294 
.703 
.5115 .500 
.488 .488 .488 .400 
Pet. .888 .818 .543 .294 .219 
.063 
.781 .714 .676 .543 .514 .466 .412 
GB 
112 3112 4 
7 
11 
11 
4 
7112 
8 8 8 11 
GB 
2112 
5 
13 112 15 112 20112 
1112 
3 
7112 8112 9 112 12 
Scoring G FG FT Pte Avg 
Jordan, Chi. 38 453 226 1172 32.6 Wllldna, Atl 23 214 167 828 27.2 Mullin, G.S. 37 402 148 1002 27.1 K. Malone, Uteh 35 328 288 947 27.1 Barkley, Phoe. 32 295 225 844 26.4 OlajllMin. Hou. 35 347 185 879 25.1 Robinson, S.A. 34 280 255 817 24.0 O'Neal, Ort. 32 288 174 748 23.3 Du.,...,., Del. 34 298 157 790 23.2 Petrovic, N.J. 35 301 155 800 22.9 Hardaway, G.S. 37 300 179 834 22.5 Johnson, Char. 33 292 143 740 22.4 Ewing, N.Y. 38 321 157 800 22.2 Manning, LAC 37 317 174 808 21.8 Richmond, Sac. 34 269 154 724 21.3 MIUer, Ind. 38 248 214 761 21.1 Lewis, Boa. 39 316 162 798 20.5 Hornacek. PhY. 34 270 115 691 20.3 Hawkins, Phil. 33 232 172 670 20.3 Gtanl, Waah. 34 282 114 678 19.9 
Field Goel Percentege 
Daugherty, Clev. Brid(owakl, MU. Ceballoe, Phoe. Turner, Orl Thorpe. Hou. Fleming, Ind. O'Neal, Orl 
K. Malone, Utah Nance, Clev. Corbin, Utah 
Rebounding 
Rodman, Del. O'Neal, Or1. Willi&, AIL Barldey, Phoe. Olajuwon, Hou. Roblnaon, S.A. Ewing, N.Y. Mutorrbo, Den. 
K. Malone, Utah Selkaly, MIa. 
Aaelete Stod(lon, Utah Hardaway, G.S. Boguea, Char. Skllea, Or1. Thomaa, Del. WUIIame, Minn. 
M. Jad<aon. LAC Ad~. Waah. Anderaon, N.J. Price, Clev. 
G 
29 32 
34 
32 35 34 36 
34 
35 30 
G 35 37 33 32 32 30 37 32 37 
34 
FG 208 
224 145 119 132 140 266 328 263 180 
Off 169 155 132 124 119 103 97 120 98 99 
No 
440 
410 321 
294 
266 257 309 
263 
303 270 
FGA 
360 
395 
260 
214 239 254 519 
602 
483 337 
Def 391 
326 
305 287 324 316 
338 
289 310 234 
Avg 12.6 
11.1 
9.7 92 
8.9 
8.6 
8.4 
82 
8.2 
7.9 
Pet .578 .567 .558 .556 .552 .551 .551 .545 .545 .534 
Tot 560 481 437 411 443 419 435 409 408 333 Avg 19.3 15.0 12.9 12.8 12.7 12.3 12.1 12.0 11.7 11.1 
BASEBALL 
American League 
BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to Ierma whh Luis 
Rlwra. ahortetop, on a one-year contract. 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to Ierma wllh 
Soon Radlnaky. pllcher, on a one-y.., contract . 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to Ierma whh 
Carloe Martinez, lira! baseman, on a two-year 
contract and Derek Lllllqullt, phcher, on a one-year 
contract. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agread ro terms with 
Kekh Miller, Infielder, on a one-y.., contract. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed 10 Ierma wkh Pat 
Borders. calcher, on a two-year contract. 
Nallonal League 
ATLANTA BRAVE5-Agreed lo Ierma whh David 
Justice, outllelder, on a one-yati contracl. 
CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed ro terms whh Jeff 
Reardon, pMcher, on a minor-league conrracr. 
COLORADO ROCKIES-Agreed to terms whh Joe 
Girardi, calcher, and Mo Sanford, phcher, on one· 
year contracts. 
HOUSTON ASTROS-Agreed to terms whh Mark Grant. pitcher. on a minor-league contract. Named Derrld( Grubba marketing operallona manager and team announcer, Andr-Huang director of aeason llcket servlcea, and Mall Kastel community servlcea director. 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE5-Agr88d to terms with Cun Schilling, pMcher, and Jim Elaenrelch, outllelder, on one-year contracla. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Named Bob Hartsfield coordinator of scouring, Luis Rosa coordlnalor of Lalln American operallona, Randy Wadlll national croea-ched(er, Doug Mapaon weatem cross-checker, Mike Russell eastern cross-checker, and Bob Gardner scout of northern Florida and southern Georgia. BASKETBALL Nallonal Buketball Aaaoclatlon 
GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Activarad Victor Alexander, forward, from the Injured llat. 
MIAMI HEAT-Activated Steve Smith, guard, from the Injured list. Placed Willie Burton, guard·lorward, on the Injured list. United Stalea Basketball League 
USBL-Granted a franchise to Westchester County. N.Y. to be based InN-Rochelle and called the Wealcheater Stallions. effective for the 1993 season. 
WESTCHESTER STALLIONS-Named Stephen Post coach. FOOTBALL National Football League 
CHICAGO BEARS-Named Dave Wennatedt head coach. 
SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Removed Tom Flores as ream president but announced he will continue as coach. Named David Behring preaident. Canadien Football league 
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Acquired Bren Young, defensive bad(, from the British Colurrbla Lions ro complete a deal thai aenl Bruce Beaton, offenalve tackle, to Brklah Columbia. Announced the retirement of David Conrad, fullback. 

HOCKEY National Hockey League WALES CONFERENCE PHILADELPHIA FLYERS-Re·slgned Run Petrick Dlvlalon Farwell, general manager, to a muhlyear contract. W L T 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Sent Vhall Karamnov, leh Pittsburgh 30 12 4 wing, to Peoria of the lntemallonal Hockey League. WuhJinglon 24 18 4 Colonial Hockey League New eraey 23 18 3 
FLINT BULLDOGS-Activated Doug Garbarz, NY Rangera 21 19 6 defenseman, from the lnjurad list. NY adelalandera 20 22 4 SOCCER Ph 11 lphle 17 20 7 
American ProfeAional Soccer League Adame Dlvlelon 
APSL-Named Steve Winter and Kerry Lynn Montreal 28 15 5 Bohren co-dlreaors of public and media relallons. Ouebec 25 15 6 COLLEGE Boston 25 18 2 
BIG WEST CONFERENCE-Suspended Uzoma Buffalo 21 18 6 Oblekea and LaDay Smith, UC Irvine basketball Hartford 12 30 4 playera lor their roles In an ahercarlon rhar occurred Ottawa 4 41 3 Pte 64 52 49 48 44 41 
61 56 52 48 28 11 

following a game between UC Irvine and Cal State· CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Fullerton. Oblekea waa suspended for two weeks Norrla Dlvlelon
i/

retroactive to Sunday, Jan. 17. Smhh wu suspended Chi  
lor the UC Irvine-Fullerton game on Feb. 13.  cago  
MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE-Announced Detroh  26  
thai Tulaa'a men'a basketball team and men's and  Mtnnesora  22  
women'a trad(, goH  and  tennis  teams  will  be  Toronto  20  
excluded from conference postseason play In the Sr. Louis  19  

winter and spring of 1993 seasons because of ~~~~lvlel~5n 
Vancouver 28 Calgary 25 Loa Angeles 22 Winnipeg 22 Edmonton 16 

The Top Twenty Five women's basketball teams san Joae 6 as complied by Mel Greenberg of lhe Philadelphia sunday'• Gamee 
~
1 
19 
17 
19 21 30 
12 16 18 20 25 
39 T 
6 3 6 7 
~ 
5 5 5 4 7 
2 
Pte 
60 55 50 47 44 32 
61 55 49 48 39 
14 
GF 202 
184 
154 188 
184 173 
200 
194 180 197 147 104 
GF 165 202 156 151 
161 
151 
208 
178 183 188 128 
131 

ln_qulrer based on the vorea of 70 women'a coachea, wllh first-place votea In parentheaea, recorda through Jan. 17, total points basad on 25 poinla for a lira!· place vole lh~ough one point for a 25th-place vole and last week 1 ranking: 
1. Vanderbift (68) 2. Tenneasee (2) 3. Stanford 4. Colorado 5. Maryland 6.1owa 7. Penn State 8. OhloSI. 9. Auburn 10. Virginia 11. Staph. F. Austin 12. Texas Tech 13. Louisiana Tech 14. Southern Cal 15. Purdue  Record 15-0 13-1 12·2 15-0 11·2 11·1 10.1 11-1 12·1 11·3 11·2 12·2 10.3 ~2  Pte 1,748 1,680 1,587 1,503 1,421 1,407 1,285 1,279 1,197 1,045 1,038 938 926 :,:  Pv 1 2 4 6 3 7 5 10 9 8 11 14 13 ~ ~  
16. Texas  9-4  551  18  
17. Western Kenrud(y  9-3  549  19  
18. Clemson  8-3  486  17  
19. Vermont  12.()  464  20  
20. North Carolina  11·2  458  21  
21. DePaul  7·3  379  16  
22. Oklahoma Sr.  15-2  260  25  
23. Indiana  11-1  209  
24. Georgia Tech  8·3  140  23  
25. Kentucky  12·3  116  24  

Ten Things 
Detrok 7, Phlladephla 4 Waahlngton 5 T8fTll8 Bay 3 Edmonton 3. Buffalo 2. OT 
New York lalandera 7, onawa 2 Chicago 5, Toronto 3 
Monday'• Gemee Boston 4, San Joae 3 Winnipeg 8, Hartford 7 
Tueedey'e G•-Boaron a1 New York Islanders, 7:40p.m. Quebec a1 onawa. 7:40 p.rn Mlnneaota at T8fTll8 Bay, 7:40p.m. New York Rangers a1 Detroh, 7:40p.m. Toronto a1 Sr. Louis, 8:40p.m. Chicago ar Winnipeg, 8:40p.m. Loa Angelea a1 Edmonton, 9:40 p.rn Buffalo at Calgary, 9:40 p.m. Plnaburgh a1 Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. 
Wedneedey'e Game New Jeraey a1 Montreal, 7:40 p.rn 

Monday'• Game• N-YOlk 108, Phoenix 103 
Philadelphia 124, Orlando 118, OT Chicago 103, Boaton 93 Houaton 110, LA Lakero 90 Sacramento 111, Golden Stale 1 07 N-J.,.ey 100, Indiana 117 " LA CUpper. 114, Minnesota 93 saan1e 108, Uteh 98 
Tueedey'e a.­
Late aarr. Not Included Atlanta 102, Charlone 100 Indiana 116, Washington 98 Portland a1 Milwaukee, (n) Detroit a1 DaJiu, (n) Denver at San Antonio, ( n) Houston a1 Sacramento, (n) 
Wedneedey'e Gemee Arlante at Booton. 7:30p.m. Chartone at New YOlk. 7:30p.m. PhUadelphla al Miami, 7:30 p.m. Phoenix a1 Clewland, 7:30 p.rn Portland a1 Mlnneaota. 8 p.m. Seattle a1 LA Lakera, 10:30 p.rn Utah at Golden Stale, 10:30 p.m. 
Thuredey'e Game• Chicago a1 New Jeraey, 7:30p.m. Milwaukee at indiana. 7:30 p.rn Den-a1 Dallaa, 8:30p.m. Detroh a1 Houaron, 8:30 p.m. 
StartlineM 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES When you write 8 checks or less 

• 
NO MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
FREE INSfANf CASH ATMACCESS 


• 
FREE F1RST ORDER OF CHECKS Standard design 

• 
PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES 


Come to expect the best. 

NORWEST BANKS 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. ~ 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana 
Member FDIC 

OBC JAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in August 1993. Excellent working conditions and salary. Open to all majors. Japanese speaking ability not required. 
lntelvlewldg lit Career a Jllacement CeBter Feb. 11t~t & 12tta 
We Did Last Semester lWhlch You lllaaecl Because the Administration Doean't Want You to Know About Ua.) 
1. 
We had three general membership meetings. 


2. 
Our Discussion Group, Salon du lac, met three times. 

3. 
Our Prayer Group, Friends of St. Aelred, met three times . 

4. 
Our Undergraduate Support Group met six times. 

5. 
We held an end of the Semester Mass at a Catholic Church in South Bend . 

6. 
We had tailgaters at three of the home football games. 

7. 
Along with Pax Christi we solicited your signatures for a petition to the US Catholic Bishops. 

8. 
Along with the Democratic Socialists we circulated informative flyers regarding hate-crime directed against lesbians and gays. 

9. 
We have continued to help University Administrators become more responsive to gay and lesbian concerns. 

1
0. Oh yeah, and a few of us made some pretty dam good friends. 


We are not allowed to publish our name, but you know who we are. 


Our Next General Meeting: sunday, January 24, 1993 
3:30p.m. 

Pleaae call for locaUon. Thill GaJIL_.._ Gre.. PO Box 194, Notre Dame, IN <46556 Jeff 288-3878, Kelty 289-«363 
GA 
157 162 148 162 172 
1n 
158 167 162 162 215 227 
GA 130 
167 152 154 
164 
183 
133 150 185 171 183 228 

Wednesday, January 20,1993 The Observer 

Courier, LendI head in opposite directions 
Courier's fire burns, Lendl a long way from championship form 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) ­Jim Courier lost his stoic calm along with four match points in the Australian Open on Wednesday before finishing with a rare flourish of curses, an obscene gesture and one fi­nal forehand winner no one could dispute. 
"When I get screwed over, I tend to get a little upset," Courier sneered after a 6-2, 7­5, 6-4 victory over Robbie Weiss in the second round. "It's just that the match should have been over, and here I am playing a few more points. The balls were landing precariously close to the line, and I kept get­ting the wrong side of the calls." 
Until Courier blew his second match point against Weiss, the defending champion seemed oblivious to his opponent, the heat beating down or the upsets all around him. 
Then came a profane tirade after a shot by Weiss that Courier let go, thinking it would go wide. When it was called good, Courier cursed Australian umpire Wayne McKewen. 
Courier went on to lose the game, his service broken, but he still led 5-4. At 0-40 on Weiss' serve, Courier com­plained about another call and was warned by McKewen for an obscene hand gesture. One more chance lost, one more flood of curses, and then Courier ended it with a shot Weiss couldn't reach and the linesman couldn't deny. 
"Every ball I hit in close was called out. and every ball he hit iW~177c?7700'1jp%TIIt0Jt --out was called in," cou-riersaid. Asked what he shouted at the umpire after the match, Courier cracked: "I just told him how much I liked his shirt, how good 
the day is going. I think that it's beautiful out, and I wanted to know if he wanted to play golf later." 
Golf is more on the mind of another former champion, Ivan Lend!. 
His glory years gone, his hopes of more Grand Slam victories waning, Lendl is look­ing and sounding like a player ripe for retirement. 
Lend! faded fast from the Aus­tralian, disappearing in the first round Tuesday, 6-4, 6-4, 2-6, 6­4 against Christian Bergstrom in a match that showed how far Lend! has sunk and how far he must come back to win again. 
The thought of him quitting the game arose not so much from the way he played ­awkward, tentative, his strokes out of synch after a long layoff from a groin injury -nor from the fact that he hadn't lost in the first round of a Grand Slam since Wimbledon in 1981. 
Rather, it was the realization that, as he approaches 33 in March, his only real goal in tennis, winning Grand Slam events, is slipping away from a combination of age, aches, a growing family, and stronger, faster, younger players. 
"I'm moving but I'm not mov­ing fast enough," he conceded. "It's partially due to loss of muscle strength and partially due to the instinct or reaction. The mind says go, and the body says no." 
Roaming golf courses, rolling on the carpet with his three kids, staying home in his Greenwich, Conn., mansion 

history. ;o,r..~;;;;...._., .....-.... player, offering a sanguine
with his wife, and running his It was evident in the things smile and saying, "It's actuallyown sports promotion business Lend! said and didn't say that encouraging for me that I was are mighty attractive lures to a he can see the end of his career able to play four sets without guy who already has won $20 in sight. He shrugged off the any pain. I was really pleasedmillion, more than any player in loss to the No. 62-ranked with that." 


TICIETIAIAilAilE 
NOTRE DAME (ND Students onLy) FRIDAY, January 22 .JACC Gate 10 ticket window Starting at 1:00PM 
SAINT MARY'S (SMC Students Only) TUESDAY, January 26 at Haggar Starting at 2:00 PM 
Saint Mary d Co!le_qe 0 'LaughLinAuditoritun at 7:00PM on January 28, 29, 30. 
NO LINES BEFORE NOON 
TWO TICKETS PER J.D. ONE J.D. PER PERSON 
reuse now 


WOULD 
$40,000 
HELP WITH COLLEGE? 
You can earn more than 815,000 during a standard Annv Reserw enlistnwnt... 
A;ui another $5,040 ifyou qualify for the Montgomery GI Bill... ­
Plus ifyou have or obtain a qualified student loan. you 
>·
could get help paying it off­
up to ~20.000-if you train in 
certain specialties. 
And that's for part-time service-usually one Wt'ek­end a nwnth plus two weeks' Annual Training. 
Think about it. Then think about us. And call today: 
(219) 234--4187 
BE ALL YOU CAM BE.' 
ARMY RESERVE 


~--~------------------------.--------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, January 20,1993 
Cheaney's 33 paces Hoosiers Barkley's conduct still a 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. (AP) -Indiana's trademark defense was just a little better than Pur­dup,'s, p,specially when it counted. 
Calbert Cheaney scored 33 points Tuesday night and the second-ranked Hoosiers held Big Ten scoring leader Glenn Hobinson to three points over the last eight minutes to beat the No. 13 Boilermakers 7 4-65. 
"We played tough defense down the stretch," said Cheaney. Indiana's senior for­ward whose four straight free throws in the closing seconds preserved the victory, Indiana's third in a row on the road. 
Led by Cheaney's 11-for-15 shooting from the field, the Hoosiers hit 51 percent for the game -the first time a Purdue opponent topped 50 percent this season. 
"We didn't deserve to win be­cause we didn't play good enough," Purdue coach Gene Keady said. "We got a lot more aggrp,ssive in the second half, but we could not make some easy shots to get over the hump." 
Purdue shot 24 percent from the field in the first half and 40 percent for the game. 
"When you turn the ball over and take bad shots, which their defense was forcing us to do, and miss your free throws, you've got some big problems," Keady said. 
Robinson's last basket cut In­diana's lead -once as big as 
-
15 -to 62-57 with just over three minutes to go. But the Purdue sophomore picked up his fourth foul seconds later, and the Hoosiers scored 10 of their final 12 points on free throws. 
Indiana, the Big Ten leader, returns home to play Ohio State on Sunday. A 2-point loss at Purdue in the final regular-sea­son game last spring cost the 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
not play a game .in South Bend until April 6, but that does not seem to bother Murphy. 
"This is what we've been do­ing the past five yp,ars," com­mented Murphy, who has a winning percentage of .728 in his five years of coaching at Notre Dame. "We don't make excuses. We'II see at the end of the year where we're at." 
The Irish will look to its re­turning upperclassmen to stay focused and to produce, though a strong team effort will be nm~ded to keep a stronghold on the baseball scene. 
Captain Edwin Hartwell and 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
SMC Day Editor 
who can work M,W,F afternoon at the SMC Observer office in Haggar. Applications will be taken until Friday at either office. Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 631-4540 for more information. 
lloosiers a share of the Big Ten title with Ohio State. 
"We've been on the road for two weeks. It'll be great to get back to Assembly Hall. I can't wait to get home," Cheaney said. 
Indiana coach Bob Knight refused to talk to the media. 
After a basket by Matt Painter brought Purdue {11-3, 2-3 Big Ten) within 66-59, the Boiler­makers fouled Indiana (16-2, 5­
0) on every possession. 
outfielder Eric Danapilis, who hit six home runs and drove in 62 runs last season as a starter in all 63 games, will provide offensive punch, while pitchers AI Walania, Chris Michalak, and Dave Sinnes will lead a tal­ented staff on the mound. Last year's staff ranked 11th in the nation with a team earned run average of 3.06, and 39 of its 48 game winners are returning for the 1993 campaign, giving Notre Dame an advantage over the less experienced teams on their schedule. 
Notre Dame will play half of its home games this spring at Coveleski Stadium, home of the Class A South Bend White Sox. They open there for their first home game April 6 at 7 p.m. 
problem for NBA officials 
average with 22 points and Cuonzo Martin added 13. Robinson had nine of Purdue's first 13 points, but by that time 
DOMER IN
Indiana already had 25, 
including 12 by Cheaney. 
LEDERHOSEN! 
Calling All Clubs/Groups 
HAPPY
$Earn Serious Money$ 
Your fraternity, sorority 
22"d
or other campus group can easily earn $400 
BIRTHDAY
PLUS BIG BONUSES in one week. You pay nothing. 
KARL! 
serious?" 
All he wanted was a few 
words. His play-by-play of the 
episode was matter-of-fact. 
"I told him he called a bad game, that they called a bad game, him and his buddies," Barkley said. "lie told me, 'That's going to cost you money." 
At that point, Barkley said he lost it. 
"I went off on that," he said. "Don't threaten me with money. You can't control me with money." 
Not that the league hasn't tried to before. 
Last season, when he was with Philadelphia, Barkley was fined $10,000 and suspended for one game for spitting at a fan. In 1990, he paid $39,000 in fines, including a $20.000 charge for a fight with Detroit's Bill Laimbeer and another $5,000 for a running bet he had with Mark Jackson, then with the New York Knicks, over who would make big plays in games between the two teams. The year before, his fines totaled $45,000. 
A year ago, Thorn reflected on Barkley's continuing conduct problems. "It seems that with Charles, it's a continuing thing," he said. "It just keeps happening. He's just got to cut it out." 
And that was before Thorn nailed him with the $10.000 fine for the spitting affair. 
LOVE, Mom, Dad, Lisa, Heidi & Erek 
Cheaney hit four straight free throws and Greg Graham and Damon Bailey added two apiece in the final 1:27 and Purdue was never able to catch up. 
Matt Nover added 10 points and freshman Brian Evans finished with 9 for the Hoosiers. Robinson matched his season 

NEW YORK (APJ -Charles Barkley will have to wait an­other day to hear what the price of his latest breaeh of the NBA's behavior code will be ­a fine, a suspension, or both. 
Rod Thorn, the league's vice president of operations and dean of discipline, deferred any action Tuesday after Barkley's post-game tirade and pursuit of official Jim Clark following Phoenix's 106-103 loss to the New York Knicks on Monday. 
Barkley vaulted over the scorer's table to chase after Clark at the end of the game. Perturbed by calls all game long, he complained loudly that he had been fouled by Anthony Mason on an last-gasp 3-point shot that turned into an airball. When Clark warned that the outburst would cost him money, Barkley went wild. 
Teammate Tim Kempton tried to restrain him but Barkley was having none of that, stepping onto and then leaping off the sideline table as he chased after Clark. He did not quite clear the obstacle, knocking out the courtside computer scoring system as he bounded toward the exit ramp. It did not interfere with his pursuit of Clark. 
He never did catch the official, who was blocked by Madison Square Garden security. It was probably a good thing -for everyone concerned. When he was asked if he intPnded bodily harm to· the man in the striped shirt, Barkley said, "Are you 
SuM~ 5€1lV1ce: 11wJE:CTS 
Information Meeting: Jan 20, 6:30pm Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATION DEADLINE February 12 
$1400.00 SCHQT_ARSHIP (ND students only) 
Eight weeks of service work during the summer 
In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US 
Come and find out what SSPs are all about 
-~---~-­

Wednesday, January 20,1993 The Observer page 17 
Can Dave Wannstedt 
-

work Mike Ditka's magic? 
CHICAGO (AP) -The Chicago coach," Wannstedt said. Bears dipped into Dallas for an­McCaskey took his time before other hands-on, emotional firing Ditka but moved swiftly coach Tuesday, picking Cow­in hiring Wannstedt, who was a boys defensive coordinator leading contender for the New Dave Wannstedt to replace York Giants job. Mike Ditka. "The talks were very intense 
Ditka turned the Bears into in New York," Wannstedt said. Super Bowl champions after he "That was as far as it really came from Dallas 11 years ago, went." and now the Bears want He said taking the Chicago job Wannstedt to work the same was an easy decision. magic. That job starts after the "It all starts at the top," he Cowboys play the Buffalo Bills said. "You surround yourself in the Super Bowl on Jan. 31. with people who are commit­
"It's the right opportunity and ted. After several meetings with right time," the 40-year-old Mike, I feel comfortable, and Wannstedt said. ''I'm anxious to I'm very excited about the get to work. The only drawback direction that the Chicago is the two weeks we have to Bears will take in the '90s." prepare for the Super BowL" McCaskey declined to give 
Wannstedt has been credited specifics on Wannstedt's "multi­with rebuilding the Cowboys' year" contract. defense into the league's best; Wannstedt won't discuss his Dallas held opponents to 15.2 plans for hiring assistants until points and 245.8 yards per after the Super Bowl, although game in the regular season. Cowboys' offensive line coach 
Wannstedt and Ditka have Tony Wise, a close friend, could similar backgrounds. Both grew also be headed to Chicago. Wise up in Pennsylvania, played won't comment until after the college football at Pittsburgh, Super BowL and went to Chicago from "I need the re~pect and like to assistant coaching jobs at have good rapport with play­Dallas. ers," Wannstedt said. "I know 
Wannstedt's description of his the Bears are very talented, but coaching style is similar to you always look in all areas for Ditka's. improvement." 
''I'm a hands on coach, en­Wannstedt followed Dallas thusiastic, emotionaL A players coach Jimmy Johnson from the 
~~®~~~ PARTY DES'nNATIONS CANCUN ~C<ll $469 DAYTONAfiom $109 
BEST PRICE GUARANTEED 1 (800)265-4654 
T-R A v ELF--RIfE-
EABN BIG ....AND FREE TRAVEL Organiu a ewd.oot group to """ c>C our hc>Ud.ay Joeatlonel 

University of Miami in 1989. The Cowboys were 1-15 that season but improved to 7-9 in 1990,11-5 in 1991 and 15-3 this season. 
-

··:tFtttt~~ 
:BARBER SHOP : 
.HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 • • SAT 8:00-3:00 • 2112 South Bend Avenue • 
• 

Appointments if desired 
• 272-6722 ••i Serving tk ?{ptrt 'Dame communityfor over 30 years •
........... 
Take aSpring 
Padre
Break reality check.  
Trash the trappings of  
winter and  
school, and  
don the  
warmth of a  
tropical island.  
Next, slip into  
the rippin' blue  
waters of South  
Padre. Soak up the sun on our  
34 miles of white sand  
beaches. Our playground has  
beach volleyball, sand castle  
building contests and lots of  
really cool ~----.....  
entertainment. ~  
Detour from the beach  budget. Call the Visitors  
and experience the  Bureau for acolor brochure on  
ultimate in partying with our  hotels, motels, and condos.  
sensational night life. And we  And save some real chump  
Party Smart on South Padre so  change (up to 50 percent!) on  
you won't fall off the deep end.  select airlines. Southwest,  
If you're in the mood for a real  American and Continental  
fiesta, just drive 20 minutes for  serve The Valley International  
a diversion in Mexico.  Airport in Harlingen.  
Centralized island  
accommodations fit any  

Get the bare facts on discount.~ for you and your friends by calling South Padre Island FREE! 
1-800-343-2368 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and/or resume to Mike Scrudato by Friday, January 22. Contact Mike at 631-4543 for more information. 
~ Sunny's Kim Chee 0 (~!:~~l~·£1k1 Garden Patio Korean Restaurant introduces a great new offer! 
Lunch buffet special offering only Korean ana Chinese food. Monday thro~gh Saturday (startin_g January 21) 11.30 -2 p.m.only $4.9) Sunday buffet with braised hot p_ork, marinated vegetable soup, and Kim Chee rice 12:30-7 p.m. only $8.50 
You have to come and try this delicious and healthy food. Sunny's 512 S. Spring Street Mishawaka 
(219) 255-5274 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, January 20,1993 
-
SPORTS BRIEFS Roy Williams' coaching helps Rex 
Walters break out of shooting slump 
.,.
LAWRENCE, Kan. (AP) -Rex Walters' shooting slump brought out the coach in Roy Williams. 
And with Walters shooting lights out the last few games and Kansas zooming to No. 1, the Jayhawks are selling out almost everywhere they go. 

"I enjoy going into somebody else's living room and trying to quiet the crowd," said Williams, whose team celebrated its No. 1 status Monday night with a come-from-behind 71-65 victory at Kansas State. "They had their first sellout (of the year) when we were at Ok­lahoma, they had their first sellout of the year at Kansas State. We're at Colorado Satur­day and they've already said it The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute \wlU .JHl"lHl.Vnl,f.tl will be their first sellout of the 
/bef!in1ne:rs practices starting .January .21 fto:tn .· · year." 219 Rockne. No expErl'ience necessary ··All aN.·f···•.w.··,e.Lc·•O-•me;A.fWj~U(~~dl When the Jayhawks (15-1) 

classes will begin January 15 at 6 p.m.,. If you • please call Laurie 634-4992. ·· · 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club praetiee Thursdeys at .'n30 lri . .tbe JACC• above•• Zinno 634~1771;· 
-
reuse recycle 

Tuesday: 
Everything 
1/2 OFF 
50% off! 
PRICE NIGHT 
Wednesda1_: 
STUDENT NIGHT 
$3 WI STUDENT J.D. 
You know what the party is all about. 
Bring us a penny if you dare! 
ThursdaY._:
-
Bladder Buster Night THIS ONE IS A RIOT!! 
Friday & Saturday: 
The Wild Weekend continues. 
WAITRESS WANTED 
1150 MISHAWAKA AVE. 288-0285 
TADIUM JACC 
o ro 
Mlsha-
E 

waka 
d 

Ave.,, 
d 

exll ~ 
y Mishawaka Ave. 
beat Louisville 98-77 last week­
end, the Cardinals were only 
about 150 shy of a sellout. 
"I don't mind playing on the road. I like those scenarios," 
AP File Photo 
Williams said. "I should add, I 

Kansas coach Roy Williams helped Rex Walters break out of his 
like playing on the road when I 

shooting slump, which helped the Jayhawks vault to No. 1. have a good team." 
be beat on the road." State Monday night and hasThe downside to being such a Kansas' lone loss this year made 19 of his last 27 3-pointfeature attraction in everybody was to Michigan in a holiday attempts.
else's gym is the emotional in­tournament in Hawaii. "We told him to keep shoot­tensity the crowd confers upon The 6-foot-4 Walters, more ing," Williams said. "I thoughtthe home team. 

than anyone else, has turned he <'vasn't getting his feet set"I like the challenge of going the Jayhawks into a team good right, that he was leaning in. Itinto somebody else's place and enough to relish the road. lie was just a few technical things.
saying, Til show you.' Hope­spent the first six weeks of the But mostly the young manfully, some of those people buy­season in a horrible shooting worked his tail off. lie wasing tickets will want to see us slump. But a few hints from bringing the ball back over hisplay. But it's getting to the point Williams and a lot of hard work head a little more than he hadwhere we're a pretty good rival has brought him out of his funk in the past." 

for about every school in the in style. Walters also was hit above the Big Eight. I'd much rather be left eye by a coin thrown out of up there with everybody shoot­

After scoring 58 points in the Kansas State crowd as he 
ing at me than be down there three games the week before, was walking off the floor Mon­shooting at everybody else. 

Walters put in 23 at Kansas day night. 
"That doesn't mean we can't 

WALLI COLLINS 
the host of Comedy Central's Stand Up, Stand Up 

WED. JANUARY 20 8 pm The Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) 
$3 General Admission $1 wI Winterfest Wristband 
Tickets and/or Wristband sold at LaFonune Information Desk 

Sl'l'UY.~T UNION HOAJlO 




Today 


ACROSS 30Actress 59 Airline of Israel Verdugo 
60Spooky31 Prohibits1 Actress Reed 
6 Shelter for tools 61 Small pie 
32 Large ref. book 
o Spanish painter 62 Director Clair 
35 Costner-
4-Jack 63 Prophets
Connery film 
(British flag) 
39 Agcy. busy in 
Possess Apr. 
DOWN
6 Saudi native 40 What does it? 
7 Costner film 1 Names 
41 Boxer's stat 
9 Not stereo 2 Burden 
42 Singer Seeger 
Heading 3 African flower 
43 Thwartopposite NNW 
4Lon-of
44 Causes
Individuals Cambodia48 Sediment
Color without a sA Catalan 49 List of boo-boos 
rhyme speaker Z4Grating so Jamie of 
&Tear 
"M*A*S*H"
zs Cleans between 7 Laughing teeth 51 Cry of surprise 
sounds Z6Simple 54 The south of 8 Peron of machines France Argentina zg Physical ss Connery film 9 Lay waste to suffering 58 Image 10The-and the Papas 11 Oscar winner 'NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Jeremy­r=T=-r.::r.:-1.:"1 12 Stove t-::+,.-t-:~T=-1 13 Double-reed instruments t-=-f±:-E+::::-l 18 Les Etats--
CjgP.~~·-· 23 Director
• Howard 
-..-r-r.a~ 24 Family subdivision "-:+.-:t::+.-:-1 25 0 rna mental 26 Tennis-play that 
, 1~~··· mustbe
••~[~~ ~ replayed
I!! 1-=+::-+=-+=-1 27 Describing grades 1 through 12 
r=+.;;+-:+.:-i 28 Turn .__.__._......._. 29 Ferma·a 
31 Gravy dishes 32 Follows orders 33 Actor Jack from 
Miami, Ariz. 34 One-tenth: Comb. form 36 S.A.T. taker, 
usually 37 Heart vessels 38 "--Devil," 
1989 Streep film 42 Poker player's prize 43 Feudal worker 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

page 19 THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Scenes that make a crow smile 
CAMPUS WedneSday 


4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Nuclear Physics with the IUCF Cooler:' Barbara von Przewoski, Indiana University. Room 
118. Nieuwland Science. Sponsored by Department of Physics. 
-
.. 
......­
TONIGHT 

Access Denied 

Must Be 21 
THE 
()
~~ 
zc
-s::
Oz
:D­
r-
c 

-
44 Send payment 45 Susan Lucci's "All My 
Children" role 46 Fervor 47 Roger Moore 
role 48 Soup server so Spanish dessert 
51 Grim Grimm character 52 Inheritance recipient 53 Kokomo intakes 56 Bullring cheer 
57 Roseanne Arnold,­Barr 
-~­


-
page 20 MIKE 
Sports 

SCRUDATO 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
When the 22nd-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team opens its season on 1------------------1 Saturday. against No. 4 Duke, the Irish 
Random Thoughts 
Turnovers continue tO plague inexperienced Irish 
The Notn~ Dame men's basketball team has proven it can play solid man­to-man defense and has shown it is more than the "Monty Williams Show." 
These qualities have enabled the Irish to have more wins through 14 games than some thought they would win all season. 
However, the Irish have still not 
solved one problem-turnovers. 
They have averaged 17 turnovers per 
game, including 25 and 19 in losses to 
Michigan and Butler, respectively. 
If Notre Dame was able to hold onto the ball. this column could be talking about the team's post-season hopes in­stead of what it has to do to stay above the .500 mark. 
The root of the problem is what most people knew before the season started-this is a young team. 
"We haven't played together that much." freshman point guard Ryan Hoover commented. "We are still not used to each other." 
Hoover is running the offense, and understandably, he is going to make some mistakes. Even Duke's Bobby llurley. who started at the point in his freshman year, had some miscues as a "diaper dandy." 
.lust ask UNLV. which took advantage of his lnss-than-stellar performance in trouncing the Blue Devils in 1990 NCAA Championship game. 
To make Hoover's job e.ven more difficult, opposing defense's are starting to key on him. 
"I didn't expect that to happen during my first year. but it's going to open other people up," Hoover explained. 
This was evident in Monday's game at Butler, when Jon Ross scored 21 points. 
Despite receiving extra attention from other teams, Hoover has not been intimidated by anyone. including Chris Webber and company. Against the Wolverines last Saturday, Hoover drove the lane on Notre Damp,'s first possession. 
"I try to makfl things happen, and that might be why I have a lot of turnovers," he said. "But, you can't go out there scared and you can't be too tentative." 
Despite the turnovers. both Hoover and the Irish have exeeeded a lot of expeetations, and they should continue to do so as they gain experience. 
"We are starting to feel more comfortable with each other," Hoover noted. 
With this comfort will come less turnovers. and, as Hoover said, "if we can do away with turnovers, then we're going to start winning some games." 
will be without their top singles player Melissa Harris. According to a University release, 
Harris has withdrawn from school for personal reasons and plans to return to Notre Dame in the fall. 
However. it is unclear whether Harris, a senior, will be eligible to play another season. 
"She has put in a request to the NCAA (for another year of eligibility) as a hardship (case)." women's tennis coach Jay Louderback eommented. 
Most hardship cases apply for another year of eligibility because of an injury, but if this is the case with Harris, it has not been announced. 
Harris. who has played number-one singles for the past two seasons, compiled a 90-32 singles record at Notre 
Dame, and she qualified for the NCAA tournament in 1991 and 1992. 
Her departure leaves the Irish with a Jack of experience at the top, but Louderbaek does not feel it will have a large impact on the team as a whole. 
"Until someone gets some playing time at number-one singles we'll have less 
The Observer/Jake Peters Melissa Harris, the number-one singles player on the Notre Dame women's tennis team has left school for personal reasons. ' 
experience there, but we are a deep Schwab will alternate at the top spot. team," he noted. "From two through ten Tholen had a strong fall campaign and there is really no big difference." entered the national top 50, while 
Schwab has been one of the Irish's top Louderback said that, for now, junior singles player throughout her eollegiate Lisa Tholen and sophomore Laura career. 
Murphy: The sky's the limit for Notre Dame baseball 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
Considering the fact that the University of Notre Dame football team ended its season less than three weeks ago with a Cotton Bowl victory over Texas A&M, many students may find it hard to think about baseball this early in the year. 
Don't tell this to the Notre Dame baseball team. The Irish find. themselves only 46 days away from the start of their 1993 season, a season full of expectations. 
"We're the best kept 
secret  on  campus," said  
coach  Pat  Murphy,  who  
since  taking  over  the  

program five years ago has turned Notre Dame into a baseball powerhouse. The Irish have won 45 or more games over the past four seasons. and are ranked 15th in Baseball America's preseason poll. 
Louisiana State received Baseball America's top ranking, followed by Arizona, Southern California, Miami, and Oklahoma State in the top five. Pepperdine, last year's College World Series cham­pion, is ranked 14th, just 

and a berth in the NCAA

';;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.;. one spot ahead of the Irish. 
tournament.

INSIDE SPORTS Over the past three 
seasons, the Irish have In last year's Atlantic Re­r:•==ee=--a-r-s-:-h-:-ir-e-:W:-:-:-a-n-n-st~ed.....,·,_,-t--,--------. a c c u m u I ated a 1 3 9-4 3 gional in Miami, FL. Notre record, placing them fourth Dame advanced to the among all Division I teams Regional Final before losing and ahead of LSU, this to host Miami, a team they 

•Cheaney leads lndtana over year's preseason pick to win had beaten both during the Purdue See page 16 the national championship. regular season and earlier Last year, Notre Dame in the tournament. This loss IIMaryland shoots down Sooners •.····.·.·• posted a 48-15 record, left the Irish just one game 
seepageJ!$ earning a Midwestern short of Omaha, Neb., and L..;..___..._..;.;....__..._.;...;.__;,....;,._;,....;,.~ Collegiate Conference title the College World Series. 
Returning to the tournament is high on the minds of the players this year. though the road there will not be easy. 
The Irish will face a grueling road schedule to begin the 1993 campaign, playing second-ranked Arizona, ninth-ranked Wichita State, and No. 13 Arizona St. within the first week of play. The team will 
see IRISH/page 16 
Penn State stops women's hoops' win streak 
Special to the Observer 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -A four­game winning streak camP to an end Friday for the Notre Dame women's basketball team. as Penn State dumped the Irish 87-66. 
Notre Dame raced out of the starting gate, scoring the gam's first nine points. The stage was set for the biggest upset in Notre Dame women's basketball history. 
But the Nittany Lions simply had too many weapons. Missy Masley's 19 points led Penn State. with Jackie Donovan .seoring 14. Kalina Mack added 13 points for Penn State. 
The Nittany Lions improve to 11­1 for the season. Indiana handed Penn State its only loss of the season. winning 71-65 last weekend. The Nittany Lions bounced back with a dedsive 73­59 win over No. 12 Purdue on Sunday. 
Sophomore Letitia Bowen paced the Notre Dame attack with 18 points and seven rebounds. Senior Coquese Washington scored 13 points and senior Kristin Knapp added 12, but it wasn't enough to secure the improbable upset. 
After winning four straight Midwestern Collegiate Conference games, including deeisive wins over Detroit Merey and Loyola, Notre Dame's confidence was high heading into their fourth meeting with a top 20 team this season. But confidenee can't overcome superior talent, and the Irish fell to 8-6 on the year. 
It doesn't get any easier for the Irish, who don't play another home game until February 4. DePaul is the next top 20 team on Notre Dame's scheduln and trips to Evansville and Butler also await the Irish before they return home. 
IRISH ITEMS: Notre Dame eoach Mul'fet McGraw needs just six more wins to tie Mary DiStanislao as Notre Dame's winningest women's basketball coach. McGraw's record is 109-57. 




