The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 75 THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

No evidence
Inauguration speech of mechanical
calls for responsibility failure found 
(AP) Clinton's inauguration • World reacts/ page 7 marked a dramatic change in 
"Let us resolve to reform our 

in train crash
the nation's political compass. 
politics so that power and privi­Clinton promised to put gov­lege no longer shout down the

ernment to work to solve 
GARY, Ind. (AP) -Federalvoice of the people," ClintonAmerica's problems. Bush, and investigators found no immedi­said. "Let us put aside personal

Ronald Reagan before him, 

ate evidence of signal or otheradvantage so that we can feeltried to restrict government's mechanical trouble in a deadlythe pain and see the promise of hand. 
crash of two commuter trainsAmerica."
"We know we have to face and raised the possibility thatHis inauguration crowned a

hard truths and take strong sunlight interfered with an

long journey from an Arkansassteps," Clinton said. "But we engineer's vision. 
hamlet called Hope to the mosthave not done so. Instead, we John Lauber of the National

powerful job in the world.
have drifted, and that drifting 

Transportation Safety Board
Along the way, he was elected
has eroded our resources, 

refused on Tuesday to blamethe youngest sitting governor at
fractured our economy and 

the crash Monday on humanage 32 and left that office as theshaken our confidence. Though error. "It's much too early to
nation's longest-serving
our challenges are fearsome, so 

tell ... what was appropriate
governor.
are strengths." 

and what wasn't," he said at aMaya Angelou, the first poet to "To renew America." he said, news conference.
read at an inauguration in 32"we must be bold." 
The crash Monday killedyears, hailed Clinton's arrival as"We must do what America seven passengers and injuredthe dawn of an era of unitydoes best: Offer opportunity to 69. It occurred when one trainwhere "each new hour holdsall and demand responsibility 

sideswiped another near a
new chances." 
for all," Clinton said. "It is time trestle where two tracks con­Clinton began the day at ato break the bad habit of ex­verge and overlap.

prayer service. A tear rolledpecting something for nothing, down his cheek as he sat in afrom our government or from According to newspaper re­front-row pew and listened to aeach other." 

ports, both engineers hadsoulful rendition of "Holy 
claimed they had a green light 
Ground." Later, Clinton and
Clinton's first official act was to cross the trestle. 

Gore and members of their
to sign an executive order im­Lauber said the engineer of

families went to the White
posing strict ethical standards the train traveling east, DavidHouse for coffee with Bush andon senior officials in his gov­Riordan, told investigators thathis wife, Barbara. 

ernment, and another order he received a green light to

"Good luck to you," the out­
proclaiming Friday as a 

cross the passage, then saw agoing president said. They rode "national day of fellowship and second signal go dark or turn to the Capitol together in anhope." He also signed nominat­
Comedian Walli Collins, the host of Comedy Central's Stand Up, red, and he hit the emergency
armored limousine adorned
ing papers for his Cabinet ap­brakes.
Stand Up, performs last night at The Ballroom. Student Union Board
with the presidential seal. 
pointees. sponsored Collins as part of the Winterfest activities. see TRAIN I page 4 
Professor: Kenyan elections were 'far from free and fair' 
By NANCY DUNN 1966, as "far from free and themselves for the elections, he This split is exactly what Moi cleansing," in May 1992, News Writer fair." said. had been waiting for, according members of the Kalenjin tribe, Moi, the president of Kenya The elections had to take to Orvis, because Moi knew that Moi's backers, entered a valley 
The new Kenyan democracy since 1978 and the apparent place before March 1993, but his base of support was too in central Kenya that was home appears to be only superficial, winner of the 1992 elections, Moi was allowed to set the offi­small to win. With the opposi­to many ethnic groups and went according to Stephen Orvis, who originally refused to hold elec­cial date, according to Orvis. tion vote now split, Moi thought on a rampage. helped monitor the recent tions. Moi gave in only after the Moi was able to drag out the with a little more manipulation, elections in the country. United States announced that process for so long that the two he could retain control of This valley once had been 
aid to Kenya would be sus­leaders of the main opposition Kenya. controlled by whites, but when 
Orvis, an assistant professor pended for six months unless party, the Forum for the Moi announced that he be­they were forced out many dif­at Hamilton College, was a part elections were held, Orvis said. Restoration of Democracy lieved the elections would cause ferent tribes moved in. While of the United States delegation (FORD). began to fight between much bloodshed between rival there had always been tension that monitored the December At the end of 1991, the themselves. Eventually, be­tribes, Orvis continued. "He in this valley, there was never 1992 elections. At a lecture at Kenyan constitution was altered cause of personal ambitions and made sure that his prophecy any violence, Orvis said. Notre Dame Wednesday, Orvis to lift the ban on the existence ethnic reasons, the FORD party came to pass." The Kalenjin warriors forced described this multiparty elec­of opposition parties and parties split into two factions, In what Orvis called,"a tion, the first in Kenya since were allowed to register explained Orvis. Kenyan version of ethnic see KENYA I page 4 

Labeled recycling bins in LaFortune greeted with a lukewarm response 
By CHRISTY FREDERICK 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Food Services has placed individually-la­beled recycling bins at both ends of LaFortune Student Center in the latest stage of its recycling effort, accord­ing to David Prentkowski, director of Food Services. 
"This was the next step to eliminating waste," said Prentkowski. "We need to educate the customers to use them." 
The recycling program began over two years ago through the work of Recy­clin' Irish, a student group, and Food Services. "We de­veloped an objective to recy­cle whatever and wherever we can and got the students to help," he explained. 
The project first focused on Food Services' kitchens with the plastic, cardboard and aluminium waste left from food preparation, Prentkowski said. After this succeeded, the effort shifted to recycling newspapers and converting nonrecyclable wax cups, Styrofoam cups and plastics to recyclable products. 
When the bins are full, Huddle employees bag the recyclables in clear plastic bags and place them in the dumpster behind LaFortune. 
Superior Waste Systems of South Bend empties this dumpster six days a week, twice a day if necessary, he said. It is hauled to their re­cycling plant where it is sep­arated, crushed, bailed and sold to companies that can reuse it. 

Although response has been slow, Prentkowski ex­pects progress in the near future. "It took the newspa­per recycling about six months to really become ef­fective, so we're not wor­ried." 
"We need to take some ef­fort to get people into the patterns of using the bins regularly. Then it's just a matter of time before it be­comes habit," he said. 
"Recycling is an important issue in our everyday lives," said Colleen Finnane of Pas­querilla West. "Food Ser­vices is making it easy for each of us to do our part. 
see BINS I page 4 

Students are finding extra features on phone system 

By NANCY FENOCKETTI 
News Writer 
Students' capability to use the new phone system to make conference calls has surprised students and even the manager of University Telecommunica­tions, Steven Ellis. 
Reports of students making up to five-way conference calls had not reached Telecommuni­cations. "We're totally unaware of it," said Ellis. 
Students experimenting with the campus phones discovered that they could get up to five people on the line using the same procedure as call waiting. While on the phone with one person, a caller can interrupt the connection, dial a second number and then reconnect the first caller by interrupting the connection again. 

Other than the new prefixes making calls between students and administration easier, the phone system installed over Christmas break was supposed to be the same as last semester's, according to Ellis. Making call conferencing an option was "an error." 
There were "no plans for conferencing to be made avail­able," Ellis said. This summer Telecommunications plans to work on installing special fea­tures on campus phones, but they are not sure which fea­tures will be included. 
"Conferencing really concerns me," Ellis said. He said he wants to find out what else the phone system can do and will investigate these reports. 
.•• I ..•.•. •·. 

page 2 Thursday, January 21, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



earching for 
Catholicism in 



South Bend 
Yesterday we -witnessed 
the "passing of the torch" 
from one generation to 
another. The WW II 
generation and George 
Bush passed the reigns of 
control to the Baby 
Boomers and Bill Clinton. 

Today we can see the John Rock 
same thing happening in Managing Editor 
the Catholic Church. The 
old order is passing and 

the new generation is -------­coming to task. When I spnak of the old order, I mean those that were Catholicized before Vatican II. The Catholic undergraduates of Notre Dame are the first of this new generation-those born after Vatican II. We come from a generation torn by divorce, crack and the scourge of our era, AIDS. We as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's undergraduates often have our values questioned by those on both sides. The world asks why we would choose a Catholic school, while others, even Catholics, question the values 




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
that our schools put to us. We have been even 






accused of being taught by dissenters and 
Earth uakes rava e northern Ja an the medicine, called deprenyl, slows the disease. How­
hypocrites. 

•TOKY -Japan's latest earthquake was felt in at ever, the results are not as dramatic as was suggested least 27 cities over a 1 ,000-mile band in Japan, but no by an earlier version of the research made public inWhile it may be true that Notre Dame uses its 
injuries or damage were reported. Tuesday's temblor, 1989. Parkinson's disease attacks a region of brain,
denomination to assist its fund-raising efforts, 
with a preliminary reading of 6.8 on the Richter scale, causing shuffling gait, difficulty talking and other
that does not mean that it should alter its 
came four days after the strongest earthquake to hit symptoms. It typically strikes people in their 50s and 60s
commitment to "inquiry." 

Japan in a decade killed one person, injured more than and affects about 500,000 Americans. Levodopa is
Faith is much more than going through holy 
600 and caused widespread damage in the northern usually reserved for patients with more advanced dis­
motions. The liturgy done here now is more 
island of Hokkaido. It measured 7.8 on the Richter scale. ease. "Our study has shown that deprenyl appreciably
fruitful than it would be if the university 
Tuesday's quake hit at 11:40 p.m. Tuesday and was delays the onset of disabling features of Parkinson's
administration mandated Mass attendance. 
centered 310 miles beneath the seabed of the Sea of disease," said Dr. Ira Shoulson, director of the study at
The students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Japan, which separates Japan and Korea, the Central the University of Rochester. 
are responsible not only for their academic 
Meteorological Agency said. The center was about 210
success. but their moral righteousness, both 
miles offshore from Matsue. It said no direct link existed McDonald's to expand with Wai-Mart 
formed with in context of Catholicism. 
between the two quakes. •CHICAGO -The nation's leading retailer and largest fast-food chain are teaming up in a deal that,
Now, "Cafeteria Catholics" we cannot be, 
New dn:p slows Parkinson's disease predictably, promises big things. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
picking the tenants of our faith to follow without 
and McDonald's Corp. announced plans Tuesday to test
actually going against the Church. Being 
Big Macs at Wal-Mart stores. The first of several
Catholic requires that we follow the teachings o 
restaurants involved in the venture will open Thursday
the Church. but there is not a reason why we 
with a limited menu at a Wal-Mart store in Visalia, Calif. 
can't inquire as to what the teachings are for 
McDonald's spokeswoman Melissa Oakley said 
and why they are such. 

We must bear in mind that the Church is the product of two millenniums of God mixing with humankind. Even the Vicar of Christ is a man OF INTEREST and bound to make mistakes. Galileo's recent exoneration is evidence that the Church can be 


•An Tostal meeting will be held in the Library •seniors interested in volunteering after graduation
wrong but takes steps to become right. 
Auditorium tonight at 7 p.m. Volunteers are needed. for one year. Debbie Brady, representing Notre Dame
Notre Dame has not only questioned my faith, 
Mission Volunteers (run by the Sisters of Notre Dame
but in doing so has strengthened it. Notre Dame 
•"Effective Interviewing" is a presentation to be de Namur) will be on campus Friday to talk to
has not failed me or the Catholic Church. It has. 
given this afternoon at 3:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of interested students from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. at the
and will, use its resources to strengthen the 
LaFortune Student Center. All seniors and juniors Library Concourse, and 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. at the
faith, exactly through the inquiry that others 
planning on taking campus interviews this semester are Center for Social Concerns (CSC). Stop by to find out
feel is weakening it. 

invited to attend. more about opportunities in the area of education, health care, and economic development. 
Yes. the guard is changing in the world-wide 
•rhe First Aid Services Team has a meeting in
Church. We, as persons fortunate enough to go 
Montgomery Theater in LaFortune tonight at 7 p.m.
to this University, must take our Christian 
New members are welcome. If you cannot attend or •Dramatist Edward Albee will be conducting a
beliefs, our Catholic beliefs, out into a world 
have questions, please call Suzanne at 288-5196. creative writing seminar on campus Feb. 25 for the
that resists them. This is the cup that we want 

Sophomore Literary Festival. The session is limited to
to pass. but know that we cannot. 
•campus bands selected for the campus CD must 30 people. To register, call Kerry in the SUB office (631­
Notre Dame. and its people, will stand long for 
attend a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. on the second floor 4560) Friday morning between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. 
the values for which it was built. So long as the 
of LaFortune. Recording will begin soon. For more
Congregation of Holy Cross has its influence 
information call Steve at 271-2806. •Residence hall contracts for the 1993-94 academic 
here, the Catholic character of Notre Dame will 
year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to
beat like the heart of our lady . for whom our 
•rhe summer internship search will be the topic of be eligible for housing in the fall, students must return
university is named and who is also the patron 
a presentation tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in 122 the contract to the office of Student Residences prior to
saint of out country. 

Hayes Healy. Resources and techniques will be 5 p.m., Feb. 2. 
suggested for researching, pursuing, and obtaining a
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
rewarding work experience. All are encouraged to
those ofthe author and not necessarily those of 
attend.
The Observer. 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Today's Staff News Sports 
Sandy Wiegand Jonathan Jensen 
Production Viewpoint 
Susan Marx Lynn Bauwens Kim Massman 

Accent 
Lynn Bauwens 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 20 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 267,747,970 -0.77 to 238.89 

S&P COMPOSITE 
·1.76 to 433.37 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-14.04 to 3,241.95 
GOLD 
+51.20 to $329.80/oz 
SILVER 
+$0.045 to $3.738/oz 

• 
In 1905: More than 140,000 Russian workers and peasants marched to the czar's Winter Palace in St. Petersburg. 

• 
In 1943: A Nazi air raid killed 34 in a London school. 

• 
In 1951: Communist troops forced U.N. troops out of Inchon, Korea. 

• 
In 1968: Mike Kasperak, the first U.S. heart transplant recipient, died after 15 days. 

• 
In 1977: President Carter urged Americans to set their home thermostats at 65 degrees to ease the energy crisis. 

• 
In 1992: The U.N. Security Council instructed Libya to hand over two men charged with blowing up Pan Am Flight 103. 



------~----------~--­
page 3 The Observer Thursday, January 21, 1993 

Media still stereotype racial minorities, speaker says 
By ROB ADAMS 
News Writer 
The media still present a stereotypical portrayal of racial minorities, according to Dr. Al­ice Tait, who spoke Wednesday on the portrayal of African­Americans, Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans. 
She tried to demonstrate the effect that the media have on the American people. She asked the audience to describe Saddam Hussein, then George Bush. 

Members of the audience de­scribed Hussein as "violent," "cruel," and "evil," but used words like "knowledgeable," and "manipulative," to describe Bush. Tait said,"If that is what the media can do to you in one year, think of what forty years can do." 
She listed numerous eye­opening statistics focusing on how few minorities are actually on media staffs. She cited "Clark's Evolution of Minorities in Mass Media," written by Cedric Clark, a scholar of mass communications and its effects, and applied her theories to his stages of minority media devel­opment. 
Clark's plan involves four stages which occur in this order once a system of mass media is created: invisibility, ridicule, regulatory, and egalitarian. 
The "invisibility" stage ex­hibits no representation of a minority whatsoever in the media, causing the people of the minority to lose identity. The "ridicule" stage presents the minority as a group of buf­foons, but nonetheless satisfies tHe group because misrepre­sentation is better than no rep­resentation, she said. 
The "regulatory" stage takes place as certain people of the minority group feel angry at being misrepresented and complain enough to have the media change the portrayal to good guys who maintain social norms, Tait said. The "egalitarian" stage occurs when a strong degree of assimilation is achieved but all ethnicity is lost. 
Tait showed excerpts from movies, television programs, and commercials that exploited stereotypical views of minori­ties. 


ND dining hall employee to get makeover from local salon 
By KRISTIN MCGOWAN 
News Writer 
Beginning this afternoon, one of the familiar faces you see working in the dining hall each day will have a brand-new look. 
As a participant in a program run by Logan Center, an orga­nization which aids develop­mentally-disabled individuals such as herself, University Food Services employee Laura Bryant is going to get a com­plete makeover, compliments of We Care Hair salon on South Bend Ave. 

Jill King, an assistant man­ager at the salon, said that the makeover would involve fixing Bryant's hair and makeup and discussing the importance of hygiene. The purpose of the 
Mandatory Meeting for all those interested in performing at the 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
on January 21H 1993 8:00p.m. at the International Student Lounge 
Questions? 
Call Jeremy: 41770 or Siggy: 41877 
makeover is "to give them more self-confidence by improving their appearance," she said. 
The makeover is important in increasing self-esteem and "making them feel good," which is "very appropriate for being out in the community," said Sue Correa, the director of Bryant's program. 
She said that events like Bryant's makeover are helpful in "bringing a community re­source to our people and pro­viding ... normalizing activities, so our people can be better in­formed and can make good decisions." 
Another purpose of the makeover is "to make the pub­lic aware that they do have jobs and can work," King said. The program in which Bryant is involved is called Logan Employment Services, which has been in existence since 1986, according to Correa. 
The goal of this program, Correa said, is to "help people with disabilities find jobs in the community." It also serves as "a support group for some of our people"-such as Bryant­"who have gone through placement and are working," she said. "We provide follow-up for as long as they're em­ployed." 
The makeover was arranged, according to Correa, when Pat McGraw, the owner of the block of stores in which We Care Hair salon is located and a board member at Logan Center expressed "an interest in being more involved with the com­munity." 
"We wanted to do something to help Logan Employment Services," King said. 

SMC professor elected to business post 
By KIM ST. CLAIR 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's business admin­istration and economics profes­sor William Shannon is now us­ing his business knowledge to perform duties in two promi­nent posts. 
Shannon recently w..ts elected National Vice President for En­trepreneurship Education by the United States Association for Small Business and En­trepreneurship. He also was re­appointed to the District Ad­visory Council by the U.S. Small Business Administration, a branch of the federal govern­ment. 
Shannon, a professor at Saint Mary's since 1983, is a leader in the education and promotion of small business and en­trepreneurship on a national level and at Saint Mary's. 
As an educator at a women's college, Shannon said he rec­ognizes the need for en­trepreneurial education among women. 
"In the state of Indiana, women are creating small business enterprises at twice the rate of men," he said. "And nationally it's projected by the year 2000 women will own 45 percent to 50 percent of all businesses." 
Domino's P•
IZZa Happy Birthday Br1• 
® 

Today Brian, the Manager of your Domino's, turns 
25. He is celebrating by making this incredible offer. 
Call in and say, "Happy Birthday Bri" and receive an extra-Iarg e 1 top pin grQi_~~~_f9_LQfl_ly_$:!_~9-=-------, 


_

ND 271 0300 SMC 289-0033 
Hours: 4:30-2 a.m. Sun.-. Thurs. 4:30-3:30a.m. Fri.-Sat. 
1 Extra. Large Pizza w1th yourfavorite topp •1ng 
$ 99 

expires 1/24 

L------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 21, 1993 
page 4 The Observer 
trical relays connecting signals. in a 1985 crash in Gary that But Lauber said indications injured 85 people. He was a
Train 

Tuesday were that all signals dispatcher during that crash "were operating the way they and was demoted afterward to were supposed to." He refused engineer, said Gerald Hanas, His train stopped 250 feet to say which train had.the right general manager of the North­from the end of the bridge and of way. ern Indiana Commuter Trans­was sideswiped seconds later In addition, there were no portation District, which oper­by a westbound train, Lauber defects in the tracks, and the ates both trains. He wouldn't said. brakes on both trains were elaborate on Riordan's role in 
Riordan told investigators he working, Lauber said. "In fact, that crash. had sunglasses on, Lauber said. our investigators described the The trestle signals are de­The bridge is on a rise, so cars as bejng in very good signed to give the right of way visibility is poor from both ends, shape and very well main­to the first train to reach the Lauber said. tained," he said. bridge, Hanas said. 
Investigators planned to run Results of drug and alcohol Riordan has refused to discuss test trains Wednesday, partially tests on crew members were the crash, as has the engineer to determine whether sunlight not expected until later this of the westbound train, Willard reduced visibility, he said. week. Such ·tests are routine Blewett. Neither engineer nor 
The NTSB also planned to after a crash. their conductors were seriously complete checks today on elec-Riordan had been disciplined hurt. 
continued from page 1 

On top of the displacements, ically, it appears that anywhere Orvis explained, it has been from one to three million people 
Kenya 

rumored that Moi also tam­may have been denied the right pered with the voter registra­to vote, he said.
continued from page 1 

tion process. Kenya has an Moi is continuing as before, unusually high percentage of he said. "Anyone who is seen as 
the opposition tribes to flee, 

young people, and like most a potential threat, nationally or 
thus creating a zone that 

young people they do not sup­internationally, is eliminated would support Moi. Many of port their government, Orvis politically or maybe even physi­
these rivals had lived in the 

said. cally," he added 
valley for anywhere between 

Some people are beginning to 
thirty and seventy years and 

Because Moi realized that the question the wisdom of forcinghad nowhere to go, he said. 
youth vote could hurt him polit-Kenya to hold these elections in the first place since they appear
dents," said Linda Keefe of to have been staged, he said.

Farley Hall. 
Bins 

The lecture, "The Kenyan
"We're hoping the students 

Elections: A Report from the
will cooperate and see the
continued from page 1 

Field" was sponsored by the
need to recycle," said 

Kellogg Institute. 
Prentkowski.
We simply need to take advantage of it." 
ARRIVE ALIVE. .. 
"The recycling project is really a great idea. I hope it 

... DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE! 
catches on with the stu-


Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid A venue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 315-443-3471 or 1-800-235-3472 
A World of Difference 

SYRACUSE ABROAD 
• 
Programs in Africa, Australia, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain 

• 
Prior foreign language not always necessary 

• 
SU credit 


• 
Field trips/traveling seminars 

• 
Internships 

• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home or limited apartment placements 


Financial assistance available 

CAMPUS Racquetball Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Volleyball 
IH Team Racquetball 
Grad/Fac/Staff Volleyball 
DEADLINE -JANUARY 20 
CAMPUS Indoor Soccer -Men & Women Badminton Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Water Volleyball 
IH Swim Relays 
DEADLINE -JANUARY 27 
Audrey Hepburn dies at 63 
TOLOCHENAZ, Switzerland (AP) -Audrey Hepburn. the Oscar-winning actress beloved for her charm. elegance and aristocratic bearing in films such as "Roman Holiday" and "My Fair Lady," died Wednes­day. She was 63. 
Hepburn, who had undergone colon cancer surgery last year, died at her home in this small village on the shores of Lake Geneva, according to a relative who answered the door at the residence. She spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Hepburn epitomized high­fashion elegance and inspired many designers ·with her beauty, but spent her last years traveling the globe in jeans and T-shirts working for needy children as a goodwill U.N. am­bassador. 
As a child, she had herself received help from the agency after surviving the last winter of World War II in Holland on a diet of mostly turnips. 
"God has a most beautiful new angel," said actress Eliza­beth Taylor in a statement. 
Her death "is a painful and irreplaceable loss for her fam­ily. friends, for children every­where and UNICEF," said UNICEF director James Grant. "The children of the world have lost a true friend, and an important and eloquent advo­cate." 
Actor George Peppard, her co­star in the 1961 film "Breakfast At Tiffany's," said in a statement from Los Angeles: "It's very sad. A silver bell has been silenced." 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 ~ '94 school year Call 232 ~ 8256 for info and scheduled showings 

No one prepares you for the MCAT better than Kaplan. Our MCAT prep counoe teaches you exactly what the t-t cover11 and the t-t· taking skills you'll need to score your best. We offer live clauaa, llo<ne study not-, and audio review. P!ua, no one else has a more extensive MCAT 1"8t10urce library than Kaplan. 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat queation. 
--------~-~---------~-----~----­
------------~--------------------------------------------­
Thursday, January 21, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Doctor helps another suicide 
DETROIT (AP)  - Dr. Jack  Miller, who had bone cancer,  Last  month,  hours  after  
Kevorkian  helped  a  man  had inhaled carbon monoxide  Kevorkian helped two women  
commit suicide Wednesday. It  through a mask, said Geoffrey  end their lives using carbon  
was the ninth suicide Kevorkian  Fieger, Kevorkian's lawyer.  monoxide, Gov. John Engler  
has assisted and comes two  Caygill said the death would  signed a bill outlawing assisted  
months before a  temporary  be investigated as a homicide.  suicide for 15 months while the  
state law banning his work  Miller is the ninth person - issue is studied. The law is to go  
takes effect.  and the first maa ­ Kevorkian  into effect March 30.  
The  man was  Jack Elmer.  has helped die since 1990.  
Miller, 53, said Huron Township  Kevorkian, a retired pathologist  Kevorkian has said he intends  
Police Chief James Caygill. He  from  Royal  Oak,  has  been  to ignore the law because he  
said Miller's girlfriend reported  crusading for the rights of ill  considers it immoral.  
the death at Miller's Huron  people to commit suicide with a  Fieger said Kevorkian might  
Township home this morning.  doctor's help.  help someone else soon.  



Free: 
Brown Bag Lunch 
& 

Inspiring Reading Little Professor Book Center 
celebrates 
National Book Week 
Friday, January 22nd at noon with the oratory of Dr. James O'Rourke 
Sack lunch provided so call to reserve your brown bag: 277-4488 By 5 p.m. Thursday, January 21!il ~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
'jo~) OOK CENTE . 
Ironwood 1'\aza North • Stale Hoad 23 allronwood 
•Snuth lll"ll<.l. IN t1GS-1S • l\1on. Sat.: 10:00-9:00 Sunday: IO:OOSOO 
**~**** 
gam.
admit­tance to all events with your Winter Fest wristband available for $3 at the infor­mation desk 

Israeli rescinds amendment barring contact with PLO 
TUNIS, Tunisia (AP) -An Is­raeli peace activist who was jailed twice for meeting .PLO leader Yasser Arafat returned to Tunis on Wednesday, a day after Israel abolislied a law banning contact with the Palestinian group. 
Israel's Parliament voted 39­20 Tuesday to rescind a 1986 amendment to the country's anti-terrorist law. The amend­ment barred Israelis from any contact with the Palestine Lib­eration Organization, which the law defined as a terrorist group. 
Abie Nathan, 65, said he was heartened he could now meet Arafat openly -"not like thieves behind closed doors." 
The Iranian-born peace ac­tivist told reporters he hoped his talks, which will include a session Thursday with Arafat, will pave the way for direct ne-
THURS. Jan. 21 
gotiations between the PLO and Israel. 
"It is one of my lifelong dreams to see direct negotia­tions between the Israelis and the PLO," Nathan said. 
Shortly after his arrival, Nathan met with Arafat's spokesman, Bassam Abu Sharif, who described the Is­raeli as "an old friend" and "a man of peace." 
Abu Sharif said he hoped the change in the law would lead to visits from Israeli leaders and parliament members. 
The action may not lead to direct Israel-PLO negotiations any time soon, however, be­cause Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin opposes direct talks with the group. 
Israel has been dealing indi­rectly with the PLO since the opening of Middle East peace talks in October 1991. The Tu­nis-based PLO guides the Palestinian delegation behind the scenes. 
The Israeli law was changed in part because of public outrage over Nathan's impris­onment in 1989 and 1991. 
9pm-12am pool party at ROLF'S! 
Volleyball, relay races etc. with..... great prizes 

D.J. • Lois brought to S U B 
PIZZO you by • • • 
FRI. 

Jan.22 WinterCircus 
Spm-1 am in Lafortune 9-1 0:30 Juggling Club 9-hole mini golf course . performing Antique Photos Recordmg booth 8~ 8 45 G f L 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
-: rope or una 
Take Kaplan Or Take YourChances
Photo buttons Lots of food • • , 
C • t Great giveaways 9-9:45 Vactona s Real
anca ures 

1717 E. South Bend Ave.
all night Steve Martin Movies Secret 
South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135
12:1 Sam. bring pillows and blankets! 10-11:30 Dysfunktion 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, January 21, 1993 
Marines suffer third casualty in Somalia as hundreds fly home 

MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­ U.S.  military  command  Calif., will probably be the last  
As hundmds more U.S. combat  announced that 3,000 Army  major unit to  go until U.N.  
troops flew home Wednesday,  engineers would spend the next  peacekeepers take over security  
the Marines reported their third  six weeks building and  re­ in the country, said Marine Col.  
casualty in Somalia, a reminder  pairing 1,200 miles of roads  Fred Peck. More than 1,100  
that this lawless land remains  and bridges in this war-ravaged  Marines have left for home in  
dangerous.  land.  the past two days.  
Despite the departure of the  The  departing  soldiers,  
troops, about 25,000 American  members of a Marine battalion  Peck  suggested  that  U.S.  
soldiers remain in Somalia. The  who left for Camp Pendleton,  forces would be ready to pass  

Serbian peace move could be ploy 
PALE, Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) -An assembly of Bosnian Serbs on Wednesday accepted a plan to end Bosnia's civil war, but what appeared to be a step toward peace may be little more than a tactical maneuver. 
While giving the international community the "yes" it sought for. the peace plan, the Serbs also insisted on the right to self­determination -the key demand mediators have re­jected. 
The Serbs' foes, Bosnia's Muslims and Croats, have ten­tatively accepted the plan. 
The international community had told Bosnia's Serbs to ac-
iI 1,. 

iitURl»i" 
I I I 
:I 1 Jl I 
: \ 

%audience 
I

i: I I ' I participation 
~ 

l...__ltickeu on sale at the Lafortune Information desk for $
...,__ 

~ sponsored by Student Activities 
eept the plan uneonditionally or risk further isolation and possi­ble military intervention. Rejec­tion would have doomed the peaee talks and increased fight­ing, but the manner in which the Serbs accepted also raised doubts. 
In any case, fighting was likely to continue for control of territory. 
Warfare appeared to ease throughout Bosnia on Wednes­day, but Muslim-led govern­ment forces captured the Jezero hill in eastern Bosnia after four days of bitter fight­ing. Serbs fighters had to with­draw over the Drina River into the neighboring republic of 
_ 

--~-~~ 
ST.IDWARD'S 
Jfaff!/Jfal/ers 
J>resent 
Out Of The Frying Pan 
A comedy in three acts 
Washington Hall January 21, 22, 23 8:10p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune box office 
$32Q students 
Serbia in what appeared to be a major Muslim victory, the Bel­grade-based Tanjug news agency reported. 
The Muslims can use the hill to control a large area on the Drina River border with Serbia. 
Bosnia's ethnic groups have been fighting since last Febru­ary, when the republic's Serb minority rebelled against a Muslim-Croat vote for indepen­dence. The Serbs have captured about two-thirds of Bosnian territory. 

t n•t't'/Jtiml out.'\itlt• 1311 !t'ill inwlt'diutt{\·fotlou· 
An Insiders View ofa Dynamic Industry }Jresented by Gary Gigot, Vice-President for Marketing 
dynamic multi-media presentation addn•ssin~ tlw challenges of marketing new tel'hnolo~ies in tht· t•omputt·r software industry. An insider's view of how the wol'ld's leadin~ I.__· ·_"_."·_"l_ud_e--'·,I software makl'r, Mierosoft Corpot·ation, at·hit•vt·s sru·t•t•ss in 
pr·oduct markt~ting. 
:.........................................» 

control to U.N. peacekeepers on Feb. 1, but U.N. officials indicated such a turnover eould not be aeeomplished by then. 
Despite generally improved security, Chief Warrant Officer Gus Axelson of Las Cruces, 
N.M.. was wounded in the right shoulder Tuesday night as the convoy he was with headed 
Personal Assistant 
to aid female student in wheelchair with daily life activities such as dressing, eating, and night routine. 
Hourly wage and training provided. 
Please call Kim at 289·483I for more information. 
7:00pm January 21, 1992 
room ~38 DeBart;-~c 
0 ,fjf•t·r,., ~~fu tlynflmir· Pl.' murJ•. ,., f) Pt•o/1•in!{ fli.o;trilmtiou chu11m>ls 
0 proce.. and .rralefQ"for succes•ful 
mllrketill!( 
back to Marine headquarters at the former U.S. Embassy. 
Axelson was in good condition Wednesday and was walking around the temporary hospital set up at Mogadishu airport. 
The eonvoy was traveling in an area where Marines have exchanged fire with Somalis several times. 

~---------$_4_2Q_n_o_n_,s_t_ud_e_n_t_s________~l~l____________________m__~-~~~·~~-~-?~.!~--~-~--~-~--~-=--~-~--~--=-=--=-=-·=·=--=·=-·=-~-~· 


Thursday, January 21, 1993 

500 greet Bush in Houston 
HOUSTON (AP) -More than 500 well-wishers, many carry­ing signs, flags and balloons, greeted George Bush as he re­turned to his adopted home­town Wednesday as a private citizen. 
"It's back to the real world for the Bushes," the former president said in a welcome­home appearance that resem­bled a campaign rally. "There's a time to stay, a time to go, a time to fold 'em. Our only objective is to be good, helpful, private citizens." 

He arrived at Ellington Field, southwest of Houston, in a gov­ernment jet about four hours after President Clinton was sworn in. The change from president to private citizen was readily apparent. 
The normal security check­points were absent for those wishing to greet Bush. The tra­ditional press pool that travels with the president also was ab­sent, at Bush's request. 
The Observer 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
SMC Day Editor 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 
who can work M,W,F afternoon at the SMC Observer 
Business advice 
office in Haggar. Applications will be taken until 
Ron Johnson, a representative from Procter & Gamble, discusses Friday at either office. Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 
handling accounts yesterday at a presentation entitled, "Proctor &Gamble and Wai-Mart: A Partnership For Growth."
631-4540 for more information. 

page 7 
World reacts to Clinton's inauguration 

(AP) The world watched from cafes in Kuwait and on big TV screens in the London Dorchester Hotel. 
It was news in foxholes in Somalia and on the streets of Tel Aviv. 
World leaders sent newly inaugurated President Clinton messages of caution, demands for meetings and promises for peace Wednesday as he became head of the last remaining superpower. 
Ordinary people around the world wondered what impact Clinton could have on their lives. 
Inaugural day messages ranged from a goodwill greeting from Roman Catholic Pope John Paul II, who urged the Baptist president "to build the edifice of world peace on the solid foundations of truth," to a strongly worded warning from Iran that future hostility would be met with the same. 
Clinton's oath of office in Washington was a scene somewhat foreign to those watching the live broadcast at crowded cafes in Kuwait, a country that keeps princes in power until they die. 
"You should not miss how the coronation works," Nasser Al-Salal, a 40-year-old civil servant, told his friends. 

In the Haitian village of Leogane, a launching point for some of Haiti's boat people, Clinton's inaugural address squeaked out of Marie Hosey's beat-up transistor radio. She and many other Haitians hope he will press harder for the return of exiled President Jean­Bertrand Aristide. 
At Ca Ira beach, about a mile away, boat-builders kept on hammering. 
Trade unionists and Labor politicians hovered around 

large  TV  screens  at  the  
Dorchester in London.  
"Just  as  Reagan  and  

Thatcher have passed into history, so their pale imitations, Bush and Major, will fall into oblivion," said John Edmonds, general secretary of the General, Municipal, Boilermakers union. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
1993--94 
EDITOR,IN~CHIEF 
Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and should possess solid communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editing and/or management is helpful. Previous newspaper experience is also helpful, but not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five­page personal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact Monica Yant at The Observer, 631-4542 . 

PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND , • .,$fQ9 
5 and 1 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH ,,• .,$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH "om$ Bf 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT "om$f29 
Z, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS , • .,$fJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,,..,$f2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE "om$f46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual 
Party! 

TOlL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, January 21, 1993 

"Give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free." These words are found at the base of the Statue of Liberty. Every child in the 
U.S. learns them in elementary school. We are taught that they mean something, that the United States is a refuge for those looking for a better life. Yet, recent events have demonstrated once again that these words are mere rhetoric, 
Kurt Mills On the Other Hand 
invoked for ideological reasons, and ignored most of the time. 
I am talking, of course, about recent US policy toward Haiti. Since the newly elected presi­dent, Father Aristide, was ousted in a coup, the military government has wreaked havoc in the country. engaging in widespread political oppression, and the economic situation has deteriorated steadily. The U.S. has done little to help remedy the situation. 

• 
Whereas, it has been ready to use military force on a grand scale to protect its oil supplies and return a human rights 
abusing government to power in Kuwait, and worked over the years to undermine legitimately elected governments all over the world, it has settled for a half-hearted support of sanc­tions. 
And, it has done little to help return Aristide to power. Aris­tide is viewed with suspicion and as an ideological threat bn­cause he takes seriously the suffering of Haitians. 
Understandably, Haitians have wanted to flee the island nation. The United States, which has incalculable wealth in comparison to Haiti, is the logical place to go to. Yet, the 
DOONESBURY 
United States Coast Guard has 
intercepted fleeing Haitians in 
international waters and 
forcibly repatriated them back 
to Haiti. 
This is a direct and flagrant violation of international law (it is interesting to note how quick Bush is to invoke international law against his arch nemesis Saddam Hussein). There is a general principle which pro­hibits the forcible repatriation of individuals back to their country of origin. 
In addition, plucking them off their boats in international wa­ters and then sinking the boats sounds more like an act of piracy than the humanitarian act that Bush has portrayed it. 
The Bush Administration claimed that these were eco­nomic refugees, not political refugees, and thus were not entitled to asylum. Yet, there is political oppression in Haiti; many people do fear for their lives, and many who have been forcibly repatriated have faced further oppression when they are returned. 
In addition, this line of rea­soning indicates that while Bush believes that those who are politically persecuted are victims of human rights abuse and thus entitled to asylum, the right to have enough to eat ­which is necessary before one can enjoy the political rights that Bush prizes so highly -is not actually a human right, and those who suffer from such de­ficiencies are thus not entitled to flee their homes in search of basic sustenance. Apparently it is OK for people to starve to death but not to be tortured. Any real ethic of human rights would declare that neither is acceptable. 
Meanwhile, when a planeload of Cubans arrives in Miami in a hijacked plane, they are lauded as heroes and given automatic asylum. They are not returned to Cuba. No one is held as a hi­jacker (although the co-pilot, who wanted to go back to Cuba, was shown in handcuffs the day they landed). 

This happens because of an ideologically motivated law which assumes that those com­ing from Cuba are political refugees, and thus entitled to asylum. This is a double stan­dard which cannot be defended. The situation is much more drastic in Haiti than in Cuba, where Castro actually still enjoys much support from the people. Certainly people are not starving in Cuba the way they are in Haiti. 
The same ideologically blin­ders were applied to Central America in the 1980s, where Nicaraguans had a much better chance of receiving asylum than El Salvadorans, although the latter were much more likely to be fleeing persecution. 
Mr. Bush has shown such contempt for the rule of law in his administration, and has shown so little compassion to those who are suffering a:ll over the world (why did it take him more than a year to support any action in Somalia?) that such action is hardly surprising. 
What is surprising is Presi­dent Clinton's continuation of this policy in the face of his an­nounced support of reversing Bush's illegal and immoral pol­icy. Clinton says that he does not want the Haitians drowning in their barely seaworthy boats while he and others step up ac­tion to return Aristide to power. 
This is a worthy sentiment; yet, the threats are immediate and real. If he truly wants to prevent the expected mass ex­odus from Haiti from drowning, perhaps the outrageous blockade around the island should, instead, be used to ferry the Haitians to a safe haven. Increasing the ability of Haitians to apply for asylum on the island is no solution. Apply­ing for asylum will only in­crease their chances of becom­ing targets of oppression. 
President Clinton has indi­cated that he wants U.S. actions to be based on the rule of law, and he has shown a greater in­terest in taking action in places where gross violations of hu­man rights are occurring. The best way for him to demon­strate this new ethos is to alter 
U.S. policy in Haiti. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­didate in the Department of Government and International Studies. His column appears every other Monday. 
Thursday's Verse 
Beat of the Rail 
Got outta town, didn't look back Hitched a freight on the railroad traek 'Cause the school wasn't cool and the high was so much higher from the drug in his vein 
On down the line, two days past New York City is comin' up fast Maybe a woman would be there Who'd heal the violent stare in his eyes, in his soul 
Bad luck then, worse luck now Show me a man who can understand how A world unredeemed can still be home to those that feel Both the spirit and the steel 
GARRY TRUDEAU 


-Smoke-stack Lightnin' 


Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q 
ND, IN, 46556 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Think positively about yourself, keep your thoughts and your actions clean, ask God who made you to keep on remaking you.' 
Norman Vincent Peale 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
-

Accent 
Thursday, January 21, 1993 page 9 
The play,s the thing 
French students bring language to life on stage 
By JOHN FISCHER 
Accent Writer 
Last year the challenge for Professor Paul McDowell was to successfully initiate a new theatre tradition at Notre Dame. 
He succeeded, drawing a respectable crowd of 250 people to his first effort, La critique de l'ecola des femmes by Moliere, performed in the less-than-ideal theatrical atmosphere of Theodore's. 
This year, the challenge is different. 
The challenge McDowell faces this year is to direct 13 virtual non-actors in a play which the playwright never actually intended to be performed. 
Oh, and the play is performed entirely in French. 
On ne badine pas avec l'amour, by Alfred de Musset, is the final product of a one-credit class offered last semster by the French department. 
McDowell has nothing but praise for his actors. 
Said McDowell, "After last year's show, nobody believed that the actors had never acted in any shows before. We experimented with a lot of different things, and they really worked. This year's cast is just as good." 
The cast is larger this year with a total of 13 members who range from sophomores to seniors, French majors to Angers alumni to non­majors enrolled in French classes. 
All rehearsals for the show were conducted entirely in French, which did not present a problem for the actors. "Basically, we're just looking for any excuse to speak French," stated senior Laura Hogan. "At this level of French class, acting in French was almost like acting in English." 
Me Dowell agreed. "I am not exagerrating when I say that the caliber of French spoken by the students I have taught here is the best I have ever heard... except in France," he said. 
The play itself is a "bizarre combination of comedy and tragedy," according to McDowell. The show includes a lot of physical humor, thanks to the antics of two drunken priests, played by John Donlan and David Lopez, but is primarily a drama. 
de Musset, the playwright, was primarily a poet. Because of this, the dramatic scenes are especially rhythmic and lyrical, according to Ben Schwartz, who plays Perdican. 
Because the play is in what is to most of the audience a foreign language, blocking and gestures are even more exaggerated than usual in an attempt to convey as much meaning as possible to the audience. 
"In fact, the comedy is so physical that we've broken three stools in rehearsal," said McDowell. 
According to Margaret Haugh, who plays Camille, the story revolves around two cousins, Perdican and Camille. Their aunt decides they should be married and tries to bring them together. Camille will have none of it and enters the nunhood. Perdican, in an attempt to make Camille envious. begins courting Rosette played by Rosie Riordan. 
Camille and Perdican finally profess their love 
for each other. and Rosette overhears, setting up 
the dramatic conclusion. 
The complexity of the story should not be a 
deterrent to a non-French-speaking theatregoer. 
"Think of it as opera," said McDowell. "Everyone will have a synopsis of the action in English and will be able to pick up key expressions in French." 
The show will be perfumed in the Lab Theatre 
in Washinton Hall this Friday and Saturday, 
January 22 and 23, starting at 8 p.m. both 
evenings. Tickets are $2 for students and $3 
otherwise. and can be purchased at the 
Language Resource Center, Room 201 
O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
"This may be the only opportunity for most 
people to see French theatre," said McDowell. 
"If the actors could dare to perform this show, 
people should dare to come see it." 
'Frying Pan' offers three acts of laughs 
ByPAULPEARSON 
Associate News Editor 

How's this for a play's dis­claimer? 
"The characters and events in this play are purely imaginary, and anyone claiming re­semblance or similarity ought to be ashamed to admit it." 
This is the disclaimer Francis Swann writes for his play "Out of the Frying Pan." which is being presented by the St. Ed­ward's Hall Players today through Saturday at Washington Hall. 
The play, a comedy of three acts, looks like a combination of "A Chorus which causes one of the there," he says. "It really was very realistic because
Line" and "Three's 
many of the complications seems like they're living all the characters areCompany." 
of this farce. with each other." "exaggerated
It deals with six young Director Kevin Huie said stereotypically" and
people, three men (played that the play should appeal Bob Maida, who produced because the play deals with
by Steve Susco, Sean 
to students because of its the play along with E.L. the "intensity" of an actor's
McKenna and Rob Ortiz) 
combination of Chaffee, said that the life, which he saw reflectedand three women (Michelle "exaggerated comedy" and toughest part about putting in the cast's intensity. 
Avalos, Jen Jermano and "light slapstick." this play on was the time You do see a resemblance
Michelle Bresnahan), 
Many of the characters involved. Casting for the between the actors and thesharing a New York City are stereotyped to the point play took place before Octo­characters, Maida claims. 
apartment and hoping for 
of satire, from the idealistic ber Break, and the cast has Tickets for "Out of the
their big break in the 
lovers (Ortiz and Jermano) lost rehearsal time to Frying Pan" are stilltheater. 
to the brainless bimbo October Break, available at the door and atThey live in this particular (Bresnahan) to the bimbo's Thanksgiving and the LaFortune Information
apartment because a 
stuffy, uptight friend. Christmas. For the past nine Desk. Tickets are $3.50 forfamous producer lives right Huie also said that the 12 days, the cast and crew ND/SMC students and $4.50
below them, and they hope cast members work have been working for five for non-students. Theto attract his attention. The amazingly well together. hours a day. curtain goes up at 8:10p.m.
young actors-to-be have 
"The talent is definitely Maida said that the play And so do the laughs. 
agreed to live platonically, 

Get heaPt smart 
Exercise generosity at Badin Aerobathon 
By ELIZABETH HEARD workout, several businesses have donated gifts which will be raffled Imagine being able to off to participants. Some win fantastic prizes, have of the prizes include fun with your friends, get dinner for two at Spaghetti some exercise and help to Works, pizza for ten from raise money for a good Papa John's, ten two week cause. memberships ·· to Powerhouse Gym, and gift 
All of this is possible at certificates from Taco Bell, the second annual Badin Camelot Music. Aerobathon which will be 
held Saturday, January Many campus celebrities 23rd from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. are scheduled to attend. in Stepan Center. Presidents from several dorms including Keenan, "The money will go to Stanford, Flanner, and the Women's Care Center," Howard are going to make said Nikki Wellmann, the their appearance co-president of Badin Hall throughout the day, and 
and one of . the from 10 a.m. to lla.m. the coordinators of the event. 
Accent writer 

men's and women's swim teams will be present. "Classes start every hour on the hour and after 
"The Aerobathon is the paying the $3 entry fee, a brainchild of the hall person can attend however presidents of last year," many classes he or she said Wellmann, "and I wants to." 
think we made a lot of positive changes. I have a There are going to be feeling that we are. going to classes taught at different have a fairly large turnout. levels, ranging from high Hopefully, the people who to low impact. "It's also an went last year will tell 
opportunity for people to their friends to come, and I keep their New Year's hope we will make enough resolution to keep in money to make a shape," said Wellmann. significant contribution." 

The Observer Thursday, January 21,1993 
-
page 10 
NFL head coaching rumors circulate Smith remembers his 
The New York Giants appear to be leaning toward Dan Heeves, and the New England Patriots seem serious about Bill Parcells. That1s where the NFL's coaching merry-go-round ends, though. 
The Denver Broncos have narrowed their coaching list to four, and none of the candidates are former Patriots eoaches. 
Broncos owner Pat Bowlen expects to names a successor for the fired Reeves next week. On Tuesday. he interviewed de­fensive coordinator Wade Phillips for more than four hours, and he already has spo­ken to defensive coordinators Ray Rhodes of Green Bay and Steve Sidwell of New Orleans. 
San Francisco 49ers offensive coordinator Mike Shanahan, considered the front-runner for the job, will be the last to inter­view, sometime this week. Shanahan, 40, is a former Broncos assistant who is given much credit for the develop­ment of quarterback John El­way. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 


first trip to Pasadena 
IRVING, Texas (AP) -Emmitt Smith has been to a Super Bowl in Pasadena before -as a spectator. 
Smith will be there again on Jan. 31 as a member of the Dal­las Cowboys, who will take the Rose Bowl field against the Buf­falo Bills in the 1993 Super Bowl. 
Smith, the NFL's leading rusher, was unstoppable as a running back for Escambia (Fla.) High School. He posted the third highest career rushing and scoring totals ·in national high school history with 8,804 yards and 106 touchdowns. 
Smith was named Player of the Year by Parade Magazine and USA Today. He also won the Gatorade Player of the Year which got him a ticket to the 1987 Super Bowl between the New York Giants and DPnver. 
"I was kind of going for the Giants in that game," he said. "I was sitting there wondering if I'd ever play in a Super Bowl. I think it's ironic that the first one I get to play in is in Pasadena where I was doing my dreaming that day back in 1987. Believe me, this is a thrilling situation." 
Smith, who has rushed for over 100 yards in each of the Cowboys playoff victories over Philadelphia and San Francisco, set himself a goal that day six years ago. 
"I was thinking that my ulti­mate goal would be to have a career day in the Super Bowl and win the MVP," Smith said. "Now, I have a chance to do it." 
Smith said the Cowboys have got to attack the Bills with con­fidence and forget they've never played in a Super Bowl before. 
"Some people say 'oh, well, if you lose you can get back there again next year,"' Smith said. "That's not how it works. You never know if you'll ever get back. The only thing that is missing from this being a suc­cessful season is a ring on our finger. We have a lot to be proud of but it would leave an empty feeling if we don't beat the Bills." 
Smith said coach Jimmy Johnson has been lecturing the team about grabbing the championship while they have a chance. 
"Jimmy wants this game and I want it," Smith said. "This could be a once in a lifetime thing." 
Smith will be the first NFL rushing leader to ever play in a Super Bowl. Johnson can be­come the first coach to win a college football national title and a Super Bowl. 
Paul Brown won a national ti­tle as coach at Ohio State in 1942 and later won NFL championships at Cleveland be­fore the Super Bowl. 
The Observer accepts class1fieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314laFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadltne for next-day classtfteds IS 3p.m. All classiheds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1nclud1ng all spaces. 
NOTICES 
GOURMET BURGER DAY THURSDAY DINNER JANUARY 21, 1993 4:45-6:45P.M. NOH & SOH 
TYPING 287-4082 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 ND Ave & Howard 
RAPID WORDPROCESSING Call Lori at 271·0754 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
Fellowship Time Friday. Jan. 22 7-8:30 p.m. 
115 Farley 
Questions? Call Kevin x1384 Ltsa x4290 
50,000.000 
CAMPUS BANDS: soon to open S-track analog recording studio will be offering demo tape recording for approx. $25 per song. Looking for interested bands. Call Tim at 289-2482 for more details. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI X4209. 
FOUND: Watch in parking lot behind stadium. Black band with gold face. Call x3447 
LOST: Key Chatn wtth 2 keys. Chain contains bronze dolphin, red Swiss Army knife. compass, and a flashlight. Great Sentimental Value. ~1!. K9l/l{l ~X,1l6.1. , • , , •••., Lost: Girls "Kubasaki H.S." class ring and mens gold neck chain during the nile of the snowball fight most likely on South Quad. Huge sentimental value. REWARD. Please call Ryan @x1691. 
Found: Ladies watch in 127 NSH on 1-13-93. Call 233-4925 to identify. 
LOST: Silver Peugeot watch lost 
Thursday of finals week in or 
around DeBartolo 101. If found 
please call Jesse at 43268. 
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring 
About size 4 1/2 or 5. Pinky Ring. 
Please Call Amy x4530 
LOST: HANOWA watch at 
BRIDGET'S on Thursday of final's 
week-black band, white face, 
small seconds hand. IF FOUND, 
CALL TREY at X1453 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­
Earn $2000+/month + world travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career 
employment available. No 
experience necessary. For 
employment program call 
1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 
Need Kentucky b-ball tix$X4890 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-START NOW Top environmental/educational company interviewing now for part­time and full-time opportunities. Call 232-7785 for details. 
DRUMMER needed to play all kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273 
Student Painters is interested in hiring highly motivated students to manage their own bus. we offer management training, credit backing, and a full support staff earning pot. $8,000. join the most successful painting co. in Indiana call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom Smith. 
HELP WANTED! II The New York Jttn~~ i~ ~u•.r-r~Qtly ~i~'1g .reliable 

people to deliver papers on campus on weekday mornings. The pay is $40 per week. All papers must be delivered before 8 a.rn.. Most routes take 1 hour. If interested, please call Bill Lane @ 634-4336. 
FOR RENT 
FOR RENT: 4 bed/2bath house on Corby St. (walking distance to ND) available as soon as June for 93/94 year. Call Kevin (317) 685-2926 
Bed and Breakfast for NO-St. 
Mary's families in private home. 2 
Bedrooms (twins) and I bedroom 
(single) with separate bath -10 
mins. from campus in attractive 
neighborhood -JPW, graduation, 
etc. weekends -Reasonable -234­
2626 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE 
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. 
SECURITY SYSTEM 
232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
FURNISHED ROOM. $170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. 287-2159. 
2, 3, & 6 BEDROOM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW AND NEXT FALL. 272-6306 
BEAUTIFUL FURNISHED, 2 BED HOUSE FOR RENT FOR $305/pm. Call8562 
FOR SALE 
1990 Nissan Sentra XE, 2DR, 5 SPD, PS, AM-FM Stereo, 34K mi, $5950. Call277-4601 after 6PM. 
FURNITURE. MUST SELL! CALL 3234 
1 00 Watt stereo with receiver and amplifier. 15" speakers, excellent sound, perfect condition. call 271­1443 
Stereo for sale. Dual cassette, turntable, AM-FM stereo. Graphic equalizer. Needs speakers. Call Sandy at 233-2407. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814 
WANTED: Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call 284-3814 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixsl GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixsl GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
NEED 2 tickets to Kentucky game ­call Aaron x1764 
Need one Duke or Kent ticket. 
Student or GA. Call Brian at 1194. 
Who's your basketball coach?! 
Who's your basketball coach?l 
Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 basketball tix to the Kentucky WildCATastrophe due to take place in the month de amor. Be a pal. samaritan, or whatever and sell him the tickets or one of his Italian relatives might pay you a visit. Then the time for haggling will be over. Call Skip at x2052 and leave a message if he ain't around. 
Please Help!! 
I need 1-4 Duke/NO 
Basketball tix for Feb.6!! 
Please call X2384 ASAP Thanks!! 
I desparately need 4 stu tix to Duke ND game. Sean x1067 
Need 4 Duke GA's 4 or 2 and 2 Matt#1190 
KENTUCKY GAME NEED 4 TIX $$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE@ 1719 
I need DUKE & KENTUCKY 
tix'GA's or Student! Call Chris 
x1235. 

Need 1 ,2,3,or 4 GA or stud. 
tickets lor Duke game. Call Nicole 
at X1618. 

NEED ONE TICKET TO THE 
DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL 
PAULA X2581 

PLEASE HELP 
I NEED 3 DUKE TIX 
WILL PAY OR TRADE KENT. TIX 
CALL TIM X3893 
NEED 

2 DUKE TICKETS 
DARRIN #3107 

For Sale: One Way ticket to Tampa/St. Petersburg, FL. Good for one year. Best offer. Call Chris @ 273-2958. 
help 

i need 1 duke ticket 
call julie x3736 

I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS 
MARY X2862 

PERSONAL 
The Student Activities Office is hiring students for their building set up crew. If you are interested, pick up an application at 315 LaFortune. For more information call631-7308. 
POP FARLEY 1993! 
Summer jobs and internships­University Directories. the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, is interviewing goal oriented students for a challenging, full-time summer position. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public 
relations. Average earnings $3,900. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may be available. Interviews on campus February 3rd. Information and interview sign-up available today at CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library or call1-800-743-5556. 
HELLO CHA-REELIII 

Hope you're getting the Observer 
over there! Have fun & wnte soon-
Love, 

Your favorite roommate from 
freshman year 

Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREEl HURRAY, LIMITED SPACE. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
...AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249. DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $47911-800-678-6386. 
FOR ALL OF YOU NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONERS WHO THINK THAT YOU ARE BASKETBALL PLAYERS OR WEIGHTLIFTERs-GO BACK TO PLAYING VIDEO GAMES AND QUIT TAKING UP SPACE SO THAT THE REGULARS CAN DO THEIR THING. 
Help! They're hurting me!-Milha 
The results of the ELEGY BOWL: 
Thomas Gray vs. Marc Hedahl tied at 0-0, because neither could score! 
Hi Paul, Troy, Mike, and Bob! 

Thursday, January 21, 1993 The Observer 
..... ..... ..... ...... ....... ...... ..... ..... ...... ...... 
•

: ·: ·: :: :: : :: :: :: :: : Aj
_...... "i& A'A'It 0 ., t ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . , .,.. 
~ ~~¥~ ~ ~~~h-F • : : • : : : ••• : : i: : : : : ·.. : : ~~1;:;9, ~ 
WORLD CUP USA t994 INC.-Announced the realgnatlon ol Steve Sannpson, vice president for 

MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Results Wedneeday from the $4.82 million Australian Open tennis chan1>1onshlpe (aeedlngs In parantha898): Men SingI.. Second Round 
Jim Courier (t), Dada City, Fla., del. Robbie Walas, Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., &-2, 7·5, &-4. Jamie Morgan, Australia, del. Martin Damm, Czech Republic, 7-6, 4-6, &-3, &-1. Andrei Medvedev, Ukraine, del. Lara Koslowski, Germany, 6-0, &-1, 6-0. Chris Garner, Bay Shore, N.Y .. del. John Fitzgerald, Aullralla, &-2, 7-5, &-3. Kelly Jonea, Escondido, CaUl.. del. Lulz Manar, Brazil, &-4, &-1, 4-6, 2-6, &-3. Jan Siamerlnk, Natherlanda, del. Andrei Cheanokov, Ruaala. &-1, &-3, &-4. Michael Stich (14), Germany, del. Fabrlce Santoro, Franca, &-7 (3-7), &-2, &-2, 4-6, &-4. Todd Wltaken, Zionsville, Ind., del. Richard Krajicek (9), Netherlands, &-4, 1-6, &-1, &-4. Kenneth Carlsen, Denmark, del. Marcelo Fllwnl, Uruguay, 7-5, &-4, &-4. Todd Woodbridge, Australia. del. Anders Jarryd, Sweden, &-1, &-1, 2.0, delau". Petr Korda (7), Czach Republic, del. Jacco Ehlngh, Nefherlands, 7-6 (1.0), &-2, &-3. Sergi Bruguera (15), Spain, del. Jim Grabb, Tucson, Ariz., &-1, &-7 (!>-7), 7-5, &-0. GuiUaume Raoux, Franca, del. Rodol:lhe Gilbert, France, 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), &-4, &-7 (1-9), &-1. Jason Stohanberg, Australia, del. Alberto Mancini, Argentina. 0-6, 4-6, &-1, &-2. &-4. David Wheaton, Deephaven, Minn .. del. Michael Chang (6), Henderson, Nev., &-4, 6-3, 1-6, &-3. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
National LAague 
ATLANTA BRAVE8-Agraed to terms with 
Ramon Caraballo, aecond baseman; Jose Oliva, 
third baseman; Troy Hughes, outfielder, and 
Michael Potte, Dennla Burlingame and Shawn 
Holman, pttchera, on on&-year contracts. 
CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to Ierma with Joe 
Oliver, catcher, on a one-year contract. 
HOUSTON ASTROS--Agreed to terms whh Art 
Howe, manager, on a one-year contract. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Traded Todd Samples, 
outfielder, and Ron Garlteln, pncher, to Milwaukee 
for Charlie Montoya, Infielder, and Oreste Marrero, 
first baseman. 
lntemaUonal League 
SYRACUSE CHIEFS-Named Steve Mcinerney 
trainer. 
Northwest League 
SPOKANE INDIANS-Named Andrew Billig 
general manager. 
BASKETBALL 
NaUonal Baakatball AaaoclaUon 
NBA-Suspended Charles Barkley, Phoenix 
Suns forward, for one game and fined him $10,000 
for arguing whh an official aher a game on Jan. t8. 
SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Activated Willie 
Anderson, guard, from the InJured list. 
ConUnen..l Bauetball AaaoclaUon 
CBA-Suspended Kelvin Upshaw, Fort Wayne 
guard, and Kenny Drummond, Quad City guard, for 
one game and lined them an undisclosed amount 
for their roles In an ahercatlon during a game on 
Jan.t8. 
FORT WAYNE FURY-signed M~chell Wiggins, 
guard. 
QUAD CITY THUNDER-Placed Paul Mokeskl, 
center, on the InJured list. Activated Barry Mhchell, 
forward. 

FRIDAY, January 22 

• •••••• w 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
AUanUc  Dfvlalon  
w  L  Pet  
New York  23  14  .622  
New Jersey  22  t5  .6g5  
Boston  2t  t9  .625  
Orlando  16  t6  .600  
Philadelphia  15  20  .429  
Washington  11  25  .306  
Miami  10  25  .296  
Central Dlvlalon  
Chicago  26  11  .703  
Cleveland  23  15  .905  
Indiana  19  19  .496  
Charlone  17  19  .496  
Atlanta  17  t9  .472  
Detroit  17  19  .472  
Milwaukee  t4  22  .389  
WESTERN  CONFERENCE  
Mldw88t  Dfvlalon  
w  L  Pet  
Utah  24  11  .696  
San Antonio  22  t3  .629  
Houston  20  t6  .566  
Denver  tO  25  .296  
Minnesota  7  26  .2t2  
Danas  3  30  .09t  
Pacific Dlvlalon  
Phoenix  25  9  .759  
SeanIa  25  to  .7t4  
Portland  25  11  .694  
LA Lakers  19  16  .543  
LA Clippers  19  t8  .514  
Golden State  tB  t9  .496  
Sacramento  t4  21  .400  
Wedneaday's G~  
Lata Games Not lnduded  

~--~~~-~~ 
~ 
~ 
GB LtO 
5-5 t 7-3 3tl2 9-2 4tl2 4-6 7 7-3 11112 4-6 t2 2-9 
6-4 3tl2 7-3 9 5-5 8 3-7 8112 5-5 Btl2 3-7 11 112 3-7 
GB LtO 
7-3 2 9-1 4tl2 6-4 14 3-7 16 2-9 20 t-9 
6-4 1 8-2 1112 9-2 7 5-5 8 4-6 9 4-6 t2 5-5 
Page 11 
-
~ 
a~ c:».
VY ~ 
Streak  Home  Away  Conf  
Won2  1&-3  7-11  t&-9  
Won5  11-7  11-9  t!>-tO  
Wont  t2-6  9-t3  t7-t3  
Loat t  t0-6  6-9  t2-11  
Won3  &-10  7-to  t2-14  
LOll 3  &-10  3-t5  7-20  
Loat4  7-9  3-t6  &-16  
Wont  1!>-5  11-6  t9-9  
Won3  17-5  &-to  14-9  
Wont  11-7  7-t2  t2-16  
Loat4  9-9  9-tO  tO.t2  
LOll t  &-to  9-9  t2-t7  
LOll 3  11-6  &-t3  t4-11  
Lost 7  9-tO  !>-12  t0-11  
Streak  Home  Away  Conf  
LOll t  13-4  11-7  t3-7  
Won7  13-4  9-9  t5-9  
Won6  t2-6  &-10  t4-11  
Loat 1  9-7  t-t8  7-18  
Lost2  4-t5  3-1t  4-16  
Wont  3-t5  0.15  t-23  
Lost2  t3-1  t2-7  t7-5  
Wont  tB-t  7-9  t8-6  
Won3  1&-4  9-7  t5-9  
LOll 1  t0-9  9-9  14-11  
Wont  11-6  &-12  9-t2  
Lost 5  9-7  tO.t2  12-9  
Lost 1  t0-9  4-t2  9-t2  

Bolton 121, Atlanta t06 New York t14, Charlotte 91 Philadelphia 116, Mlaml112, OT Cleveland t23, Phoenix 119 Portland 110, Mlnneaota 94 Seattle at LA Lakers, (n) Utah at Golden State, (n) 

Thursday's Games Chicago at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. Milwaukee at Indiana. 7:30 p.rn Den-at Dallu, 9:30 p.m. Detro~ at Houlton, 8:30p.m. 
Friday's Games New York at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Phoenix at Wahlngton, 7:30p.m. Miami a1 O~ando, 7:30 p.rn New Jersey at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. LA Lakers at Utah, 9 p.m. Charlotte at Chicago, 9:30p.m. Detro~ at San.Antonlo, 9:30 p.m. Cleveland at LA Clippers, t0:30 p.m. Seattle at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Sacramento at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 
NHL STANDINGS 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norrla  Dlvlalon  
w L  T  Pta  
Chicago  27  t7  6  60  
Detroh  26  t9  4  56  
Minnesota  23  t7  6  52  
Toronto  21  19  7  49  
St. Louis  19  22  6  44  
Tampa Bay  t5  31  2  32  
Smythe  Dlvlelon  
Vancouver  28  13  5  61  
Calgary  25  17  5  55  
Los Angeles  23  19  5  51  
Winnipeg  23  20  4  50  
Edmonton  t6  26  7  39  
San Josa  6  39  _<!_  14  

WALES  CONFERENCE  
Patrick  Dlvlalon  
GF  GA  w L  T  Pta  GF  GA  
167  135  Pittsburgh  3t  t2  4  66  207  159  
204  169  Washington  24  t8  4  52  t94  t62  
t60  t54  New Jersey  23  t9  3  49  t59  t49  
t59  t55  NY Rangers  2t  t9  7  49  t96  t94  
162  169  NY Islanders  20  22  5  45  t86  t74  
t53  t97  Philadelphia  17  20  7  41  t73  tn  
Adame  Dfvlelon  
2t0  139  Montreal  29  t5  5  63  203  t60  
180  153  Quebec  26  t5  6  59  199  t69  
196  t99  Boston  25  t8  3  53  182  t64  
t73  173  Buffalo  22  19  6  50  200  t64  
132  t96  Hartford  t2  30  4  29  147  2t5  
131  229  Ottawa  4  42  3  11  106  232  

Women 
Slnglaa 
Second Round 
Monica Sales (1), Yugoslavia, del. Marla Strandlund, Sweden, &-2, 6-0. Nathalie Tauzlat (13), France, del. Wlhrud Probst, Germany, &-2, 4-6, &-2. Zlna Garrison-Jackson (16), Houston, del. Donna Faber, Pinellas Park, Fla., 4-6, &-4, &-2. Isabelle Demongeot, Franca, del. Mana Endo, Japan, 2-6, &-2, &-2. Gabriela Sabatini (3), Argentina, del. Natalia Baudona, haly, 6-0, &-1. Miriam Oremans, Netherlands, del. Elna Rainach, South Africa, &-1, &-1. Kimberly Po, Rolling Hills, Calif., del. Patricia Hy, Canada, &-4, &-2. Mary Pierce (10), Franca, del. Kimlko Date, Japan, &-t, &-1. Lindsay Davenport, Palos Verdes, Calif., del. Monlque Kiene, Netherlands, 7-5, &-4. Patty Fendlck, Sacramento, CaiH., del. Ann Gr088man, Grove Ctty, Ohio, &-1, 7-6 (9-6). Glgl Fernandez, Aspen, Colo., del. Nicole Arendt, Princeton, N.J.. &-4, 7-6 (9-7). Julie Halard, France, del. Karin Kschwendt, Germany, &-4, t-6, &-4. Nanna Dahlman, Finland, del. Shaun Stafford, Galneavllle, Fla., &-1, &-2. Conchita Martinez (6), Spain, del. Monlque Javer, BrMaln, 7-5, &-t. Robin Wh~e. Del Mar, CaiH., del. Jana Novotna (8), Czech Republic, 4-6, 7-5, &-2. 
ROCKFORD LIGHTINING--Aoqulred the rights to Barry Stevens, guard-forward, from Fargo­Moorhead for a 1993 fourth-round pick and future considerations. United s....a Baaketball LAague 
WESTCHESTER STALLIONS-Named Dr. Boston Ketth and Julius Allan assistant coaches. FOOTBALL NaUonal Football League 
HOUSTON OILERS---l:xtended the contract of Kevin Glbrlde, offensive coordinator. HOCKEY NaUonal Hockey LAague 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Sent lain Fraser, center, to Cap~al District of the American Hockey League. 
OTIAWA SENATOR8-Recalled Gord Dineen, delenseman, from San Diego of the International Hockey League. 
ST. LOU IS BLUEs-Assigned Dave Mackey, left wing, to Peoria of the International Hockey League. 
VANCOUVER CANUCKS-sent Stephana Morin, center, to Hamilton of the American Hockey League. Recalled Jlrl Siegr, defenseman, from Hamlnon. Colonial Hockey league 
FLINT BULLDOGS-Placed Ken Spangler, defansaman, on the seven-day InJury list, retroactive to Jan. t7. International Hockey League 
SAN DIEGO GULLS-Signed Peter lng, goalender; Kord Cemlch, delenseman; and Dan Vincelette, forward. SOCCER 
U.S. SOCCER FEDERATION-Named Stave Sarrpson assistant coach of the U.S. national 
team. 

~~ion management. COLLEGE 
DUQUESNE-Announced they will leave the Mldweatern Collegiate Conferenoe and return to the Atlantic tO Conference; ellactlve July t. 
HARTFORD-Announced !hill men's and 'Mll'l*l'a track will be a varsity sport, effective this 
-t•. 
HOUSTON-Announced the retirement of Tom Wlllon, athletic trainer, effective at the end of this sem.ter. 
OKLAHOMA STATE-Named David Browning offensive line coadl. TARLETON STATE-Named Ronnie Roemisch football coach. 
NCAA POLLS 
How the top 25 teams In The Associated Press college basketball poll fared Wed11esday: 
1. 
Kansas (1!>-1) did not play. Next: at Colorado, Saturday. 

2. 
Indiana (16-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 24 Ohio State, Sunday. 

3. 
North Carolina (t!>-t) beat No. 7 Virginia 60­


58. Next: ve. No. to Seton Hall at the Meadowlands, Sunday. 
4. 
Kentucky (12-t) did not play. Next: at South Carolina, Saturday. 

5. 
Michigan (14-2) beat Minnesota 90-73. Next: VB. Illinois, Saturday. 

6. 
Duke (t2-2) did not play. Next: vs. North Carolina State, Thursday. 

7. 
Virginia (11-1) lost to No.3 North Carolina 60­


59. Next: VB. No. t6 Georgia Tech, Saturday. 
8. Arkansas (12-2) loll to No. 19 Vanderbilt 102­
89. Next: VB. Auburn, Saturday. 
9. 
Cincinnati (t2-t) did not play. Next: vs. Alabama-Binningham, Saturday. 

10. 
Selon Hall (t!>-2) did not pluy. Next: vs. No. 3 North Carolina at the Meadowlands, Sunday. 

11. 
Arizona (9-2) at Arizona State. Next: at New Orleans, Saturday. t2. Oklahoma (t2-4) did not play. Next: at Iowa State, Saturday. t3. Purdue (11-3) did not play. Next: at Northwestern, Thursday, Jan. 29. t4. Iowa (t2-3) vs. Northwestern, postponed. Next: at No. 2t Michigan State, Thursday, Jan. 28. t5. UNLV (t0-1) did not play. Next: vs. No. t8 Georgetown, Saturday. 


t6. Georgia Tech (9-3) did not play. Next: vs. Watr.e Forest, Thursday. 
17. 
Connecticut (&-4) did not play. Next: vs. Providence, Saturday. 

18. 
Georgetown (tt-2) did not play. Next: at No. 


t5 UNLV, Saturday. t9. Vanderblh (14-3) beat No. 8 Arkansas t02­
89. Next: al Tanneaaee, Wednesday. 
20. 
Pittsburgh (t2-2) beat Boston College 8t-70. Next: at Miami, Saturday. 

21. 
Michigan Stale (t0-3) did not play. Next: vs. Wisconsin, Saturday. 

22. 
Utah (12-2) did not play. Next: vs. Hawaii, Thursday. 

23. 
UCLA (t1-4) did not play. Next: vs. Stanford, Thursday. 

24. 
Ohio State (9-4) lost to Wisconsin 76-67. Next: at No. 2 Indiana. Sunday. 

25. 
Long Beach State (12-2) did not play. Next: at Cal State-Fullerton, Thursday. 


Saint Mary'd CoLfe_qe 
J ACC Gate 10 ticket window Starting at 1 :00 PM  0 'LaughLinAuditorium  
SAINT MARY'S (SMC Students Only)  at 7:00PM on  
TUESDAY, January 26  January 2~ 29, JO.  
at Haggar  
Starting at 2:00 PM  

NO LINES BEFORE NOON 
TWO TICKETS PER J.D. ONE J.D. PER PERSON 
The Department Of Music Presents 
~stine Rutledge & William Cemy In a faculty 
~~........-..--= o/io{a ancC ~ e:;::;-~ Piano tJ?scita{ 
Sunday, January 24, 1993, 2:00p.m. .Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
Earn $$$$ for 
SPRING BREAK Waiters, Waitresses and Food Services help needed for JPW Catering Events February 15...21 Sign Ups will start Monday, January 25 10 a.m.... 4 p.m. Basement of SDH 
JPW 1993 
page 12 The Observer Thursday, January 21,1993 
-
Tar Heels blow past previously unbeaten Virginia 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP)­Seventh-ranked Virginia's 16­game winning streak came to an abrupt halt Wednesday night as No. 3 North Carolina pounded out an 80-58 victory. 
The Cavaliers -who had the nation's longest current winning streak as well as the third longest in school history ­couldn't overcome North Carolina's occasional dry spells in the first half. 
In the second half, the Tar Heels pounded the ball inside to their big men and widened a seven-point halftime lead to as much as 29 points. 
The Tar Heels (15-1, 5-0 At­lantic Coast Conference) ex­tended their own winning streak to seven games with the help of some unlikely sources. Forward Kevin Salvadori, av­eraging 4 points per game, finished with 14 .as a result of North Carolina's inside push, and Henrik Rodl hit three 3­pointers and scored all 11 of his points in the first half. 
Michigan 80, Minn. 73 
MINNEAPOLI -Chris Webber, wearing a face mask to protect a broken nose, and Jalen Rose sparked a 21-12 second-half run as No. 5 Michigan handed Minnesota its first home loss of the season Wednesday night. 
Webber capped the spurt, which gave Michigan a 65-52 lead with 5:32 to go, with two spectacular dunks. The first was on an alley-oop pass from Rose. The second came after he blocked Randy Carter's shot, got the rebound, dribbled down court, beat two defenders with a behind-the-back move and powered in a two-handed slam. 
Vanderbilt 102, Arkansas 89 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Nolan Richardson, who had never coached a game in Vanderbilt's Memorial Gym, still hasn't coached a whole one. 
The Arkansas coach was ejected Wednesday night with 
15:50 remaining in No. 19 Vanderbilt's win over No. 8 Arkansas after he argued a non-call on an apparent charge and a 3-second violation against his team. 
Billy McCaffrey hit four straight free throws off the two technicals to give the Com­modores a 61-54 lead, and Vanderbilt was not threatened again. 
"Those things just jumped me real bad," Richardson said after the loss, which ended Arkansas' four-game winning streak. "I jumped up and yelled that I hadn't seen a 3-second call this year. 

Janicke 

continued from page 16 
ice time," noted Schafer, "And he is shooting a lot more and has had ample opportunities." 
The youngsters on the squad have also proved their worth in the classroom, as freshmen Garry Gruber and Chris Bales attained Dean's List this past semester. 
Schafer cited the players' attitudes for their grades, not­ing, "We support them in their academic pursuits and they were recruited to do well." 
"I give 100% on and off the ice and I try to do the best I can," concludes Janicke. 
CCHA NOTES: -Senior Curtis Janicke and freshman Jaime Ling are tied for 5th in the scoring race in the CCl-IA with 25 points. Miami's Brian Savage leads the league with 29 points. 
-ND is ranked 1Oth in the 
CCHA standings. Miami leads the league with a 15-6-3 record . .:_Janicke is 3rd in the CCHA with 8 power play goals. -Chris Brooks, a freshman left wing from Western Michigan University, is the CCHA Offen­sive Player of the Week for his performance last weekend. -Steve Shields, a junior goal­tender form Michigan, has been selected CCHA Defensive Player of the Week for his performance last weekend. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
Such experiences have led me, an anti~authority, child of the sixties, to re~appreciate the rule of law. Such experiences deepened my gratitude for our country's political heritage, which I believe seeks to guarantee the rights of all people and to protect the dignity of all our citizens. 
Yet a great sadness seems to be that for others of our citizens, the high political ideals of democracy have been left hollow and distant because of harsh economic realities. The rule of law may be a fine thing for those who come from the right kind of backgrounds, but to those whose life struggle has been fought in neighborhoods of poverty and crime, the ideals can seem far from realized and the police can seem far from friendly. 
Perhaps that's why eloquent words of hope and an invitation to new life are so strong when proclaimed by a woman like Maya Angelou. A survivor, a healer, a lover of life ~ she rises through the long pain of her past, escaping her prison with a fidelity like Nelson Mandela, and preaching her call to newness with a conviction like Billy Graham. 
May the preacher and the poet guide the President, and may all the people know peace. New hope is important for the quality of our national life. New hope is important for the quality of our witness to the watching world. 
Fr. Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. January 24 5:00p.m. Rev. Mark Thesing, C.S.C. Sun. January 25 10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 1ST READING Isaiah 8--23 .. 9, 3 2ND READING I Corinthians 1, 10--13. 1 7 GosPEL Matthew 4, 12--23 
To Renew the Heritage 

The poet Maya Angelou presented an evocative poem before the nation 
and the world yesterday, on the occasion of the Inau.euration of William Jefferson Clinton as President of the United States of America. She 
called upon all the spirits of all the peoples who have come and lived in 
this country, to now bind together and draw new hope from the deep 
promises of life carried by our spiritual and political heritages. 
The Reverend Doctor Billy Graham was also on that stage, as he so often is on such occasions, and he prayed for the new President and for his government. He did his job well. He too asked for healing and for hope for our country and our world, and he asked God to use the newly chosen leaders to achieve these lofty and long~sought purposes. 
At one point in the television broadcast, the network cameras focused on the smiling face of Nelson Mandela, chairman of the African National Congress in turbulent South Africa, as he stood amongst the crowd. He was an invited guest to the festivities. The commentators spoke of how he had been swamped all morning by members of congress, anxious to shake his hand and wish him well. They spoke of how he had been imprisoned in his country for twentyseven long years and of how even now he struggles for the liberation of the majority population of his country. They spoke of how the American system of government, and particularly our ability to hand,over power peacefully from one leader to another, is the envy of many a nation. The commentators imagined that Nelson Mandela himself would surely wish that the gathering of a few preachers and poets would be enough to bring some peaceful political consensus to his troubled land and achieve a just transfer of power. 
When I lived in East Africa during the 1980's, on several occasions I was 
put in situations where the police or the army or some other governmental functionary was something of a threat to my life or, more often, to the lives of my friends and my neighbors. It was normal in such an environment for people to regard members of the army or the police as the enemy, and to fear them. All of us knew that in many ways, these people were not accountable to any responsible higher authority and so they could get away with any brutality they chose to use upon the citizens. They were the "upclose" experience of a crude dictatorship. When poor men were coming home late at night on the bus, the police would swoop through the neighborhood and pick up anyone they chose. If a man had some extra money with which to pay a bribe, perhaps they would let him go free. If he had nothing to give to escape, he was dropped in jail on some trumped,up charge, and his family would then have to struggle to find even more money the next day for the fine which went with his guaranteed conviction. 

-~ ·~--------~-------------­
The Observer page 13 
Parish,Celtics control boards and Hawks 
AP File Photo Celtics veteran Kevin McHale, here executing his patented hook shot on Bill Laimbeer, helped Robert Parish dominate the boards last night. 
BOSTON (AP) -The Boston Celtics got the boards and the blocks, and one very big reason -ailing 7-footer Kevin Willis­was sitting in street clothes on the Atlanta Hawks bench. 
Boston posted season highs of 62 rebounds and 13 blocked shots, broke the game open in a 31-15 third period, and routed the Hawks 121-106 Wednesday night. 
"The Celtics hit a stretch in the third quarter where every­thing was going down," Atlanta coach Bob Weiss said. "If they missed, they got the boards and put it back in. 
"Willis would've helped cut down the Celtics' offensive boards." 
But after starting all 35 At­lanta games, the NBA's third leading rebounder sat out the 36th with a sore back. He was averaging 13 rebounds. His re­placement in the starting lineup, Duane Ferrell, had one. 
Boston rallied in the third quarter behind Robert Parish's 15 rebounds, two less than Bill Russell's single-quarter club record, and Xavier McDaniel's 11 points to turn a 63-62 half­time deficit into a 93-78 lead. 
The lead ranged from 11 to 20 points the rest of the way. 
"Robert is our anchor. He handles all our defensive as­signments and he's our key rebounder," Boston coach Chris Ford said. 
The Celtics had 17 more re­bounds than Atlanta and a 27­10 advantage in the third period in which they had 14 offensive rebounds. 
"What's been killing us is the offensive glass and making turnovers," said Reggie Lewis. 
Blazers 110, T-Wolves 94 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Cliff 
Robinson had 22 points, 14 re­
bounds and a career-high eight 
assists to lead Portland past 
Minnesota. 
Robinson, who also had four 
blocked shots and three steals, 
helped cover the absence of 
starting center Kevin Duck­
worth, who missed the game 
with a respiratory illness. 
Portland (25-11) had four others score in double figures as it continued its domination of expansion teams. The Blazers improved to an NBA-hest 41-1 against the league's four newest teams, including a 12-1 record 

[!] 
LEASING NOW FORI AUGUST 1 And 2 Bedroom Apartments 
Apartments availiable for your selection. 
•9 MONTH LEASES• •All utili ties included • •Relaxed, Secure Environment • 
1!1 
~ 
mJ 
~ 
~ 
mJ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
I~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
I ~ 

vs. Minnesota. 
Portland's Clyde Drexler had 20 points and Rod Strickland 16 points and nine assists off the bench. 
Minnesota (7-26) has lost 10 of its last 12 at home and is 0-11 against Pacific Division teams. Doug West led the Wolves with 20 points and Michael Williams finished with 13 points and 12 assists. 
76ers 115, Heat 112 
MIAMI (AP) -Philadelphia became the latest team to take advantage of Miami's overtime failures, with Jeff Hornacek hitting a pair of crucial 3-point baskets Wednesday night to help the 76ers to a 115-112 victory. 
The 76ers outlasted Miami in triple overtime in November when the teams last met. The frustrated Heat have lost four games in a row, three in over­time, while Philadelphia has gone into overtime in three of its last four games, winning two of them. 
Philadelphia trailed 104-97 with 4 7 seconds left in the fourth quarter, but Hornacek and Andrew Lang hit 3-point baskets and Miami missed 4 of 6 free throws. Philadelphia's Clarence Weatherspoon then hit 2 free throws with 13.6 seconds left to tie the game at 106 and force the overtime. 
Hornacek's 3-pointer gave the 76ers a 113-108 lead, and they held on for their third consecu­tive victory. 
Hornacek scored 27 points and Hersey Hawkins 23 for Philadelphia, which hit its first 22 free throws and wound up 32 for 31) at the line. 
Dollar Kraze 
Hundreds of New Items Now in Stock 
Household Plastics, Health &Beauty Aids, Snacks, Party Supplies, Valentine Cards, Gifts and Balloons 
2 Locations 

•Ironwood Plaza 
18113 State Route 23 South Bend 
•Indian Ridge Plaza 
5901 Grape Road Mishawaka 
•Always 
$1 or Less! 

•Always 
Something New! •Always Qulality! 


-----------------------------~ 
page 14 The Observer Thursday, January 21,1993 
Iowa community mourns loss of Street 



IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -Iowa basketball players and coaches struggled with feelings of grief and shock Wednesday as they mourned the death of Chris Street, their fiery leader. 
Players huddled with coach Tom Davis to try to cope with the loss of the 6-foot-8 junior, regarded as the heart and soul of the 14th-ranked Hawkeyes. 
Street, the team's top re­bounder and third-leading scorer, died in a traffic accident Tuesday night. 
Efforts to remember him be­gan quickly. Both Iowa and a tournament in Puerto Rico said they would name awards after Street. 
"I cannot begin to describe the deep feelings of Chris Street's teammates and coaches. We all loved him and we all will miss him very much," Davis said in a statement. 
"Chris represented all that is good about the Midwest and the state of Iowa. He was open, caring, honest, loving and lived life to the fullest every day." 
Street, 20, died when his car was struck by a snow plow, then by another car. Kimberly Vinton, Street's girlfriend, also was in the car but managed to crawl from the wreckage. She was in stable condition at Uni­versity Hospitals and Clinics. 
The accident happened after Street and Vinton, also 20, had left a team meal at a restaurant on the northeast edge of Iowa City. Street was returning to campus for a night class. 
Iowa athletic officials, deluged with sympathetic telephone calls from across the nation, postponed Wednesday night's Big Ten game with Northwest­ern and Saturday's game at Penn State. 
The university has established a memorial fund in Street's name and announced that beginning with this season's banquet, the basketball team will present an annual award to a player who "exemplifies the spirit, enthusiasm and intensity of Chris Street." 
A.
• 

Finance Club Meeting heea 
~atM,MITT~D 
Thursday, January 21 
Come and solve the Mystery 
7:00p.m. 
January 27, 1993 8:00pm 
223 Hayes~Healy
LaFortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) 
1st prize $1 00 
~to discuss events 
I 
I' 

100% audience 
for this semester~
participation 
~tickets on sate at the LaFortune Information desk for 
~~._. -....
-·--~ 
-......_,.. sponsored by Student Activities 
Hoy cumplo 21 anos
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS 
Voulez-vous coucher avec moi? 
CATCH 'EM 
.. 

IRISH HOCKEY Friday VS UIC 7:00 ·PM* J ACC Ice Rink Saturday vs Michigan 7:00PM* JACC Ice Rink 




#20 WOMEN'S TENNIS Saturday vs Duke 
-Tony­
12:00 PM Eck Pavilion 
FREE Admission 
•Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
AnTostal 
Organizational Meeting
Mass in memory of Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler 
Volunteers Needed! 
Thurdsday, January 21 
+ 


7:00p.m. 
Library Auditorium
January 24, 1993 
11:45 a.m. 

Do Your Family Proud
Sacred Heart 
Impress Your Friends 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Presider 
All are welcome to come give thanks for the lives of Meghan and Colleen and to pray for the continued healing of their families and friends 

. -----------.1 
-

Today 
page 15 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


M~ Ff>.MIU IS D~'SPJ\'lc.TION~ M'{ BE\\"'-\JioR \'S ~1)\)IC\\V~ AND l/1~ Pt>-R~~ WOt-lT 1=\JNC\\ON\N<:. \~ /1.. D\S~i>-':>£. EMPo'f.I~R ME! Cot-\S£~\l~l{\Li, PROC.t::'SS af "1\)'(\C. 

BILL WATTERSON ONE OF \JS NEEDS To StiCK 
f.\\<; \-\~0 IN t>.. IS\lc.I<EI OF ICE Wi>-IT:::R~.~==::::::-
Jf 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Medricks 25 Kind of triangle 
1 Nitwit 28 Roots
5 A Detroit dud 31 "IWasthe-,"
10 Summit Presley hit 14 Hawkeye 32 Eremite
portrayer 34 Devotee
15 Grand follower 35 Brazil, e.g. 
16 Picturesque .sights in the 
36 Threefold: Seine 
Comb form 

37 Diamonds, to another hitch 11 Signed on for Legs 
38 Stray19 Endure 

39 Luge occupant withthe-43 Defeated 21 Japanese 
20 Git thar fustest 
Amendment courtesan 44 Better prepared 23 Love: Lat. 46 Redacted 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
FOLK DAHS IMAGO ILIE ELAM NIDES SOME SORE AN~~OU C R E P E S U Z E T T E 
S L E D~A I R E D A L T A I g S liT Z. MAS P E R K •fTTE T R A Z Z I N I 
I V I E s•l 0 I.Y 0 G I S 
N E S S E L R O~E-0 R E S GET.QU~ SAGELY 0 U L~l T E R 
~--..=S+O=-UB I SESAUCE AI IDLE PROrN 1-'A"+'-'M+'-'-1~G+'-A T E E M H I T E 
-
MIXES EATS YSER 
l'\V\ 1\101 S\:LF · COOC\£1-\\)'C.NC'{ .' I N.'i:E\) ACT\J~L \""ZE 0 .1 1-\0l\S\\C. 1-l'C:AUN.G P,N,\) Wt..U.N~S'S 9EI="ORE I'lL ACCU\ AI\~ Rt:.'S~N.'SIB\LIT'i 
roR M'{ AGION.S .' 
I 

48 Musical endings 49 Rasp 50 Put on weight 52 Beards of grain 56 Send out 57 Belittler's activity 60 Jimmy, e.g. 61 Official 
proclamation 62 Resort in Sicily 63 Anglo-Saxon 
day laborer 64 Freeman biography 65 Exploit 
DOWN 1 Brewery yeast 2 Airplane's­strut 3 Monodies 4 Miniature domestic fowl 5 Occurrence 6 Magicians, often 7 Posed 

18 Nocturnal 30 Slammin' 51 Hebrew prophet aDirection or mammal Sammy 53 Prong of a suffix pitchfork
22 Ashtabula's lake 33Guided 
Saint Mary's 

9 Tabard guests 39 Support 54 "Thousand
24 W. C. Fields 
Baked Potato Bar 
days" queen 

10 Under the comedy? 40 Hero's lover 
Baked Sole Supreme 
55 Hoople's

weather 
25 Blunder 41 SW Asian state 
Carved Turkey 
exclamation

11 "Top secret" 26 Habituate or 42 Memento 
58 Noted painter of 

designation accrue 
45 Partially burned 
birds 12 Interlock pipe tobacco
27 Act of eating 59 "I Hadn't Anyone 13"6C6mo­one's words 47 Embedded -You," 1938 usted?" 29 Mother-of-pearl 50 Lavish party song 
Snake department stores 
CAMPUS  
Thursday 3:30 p.m. Workshop: KEffective Interviewing," Paul Reynolds. Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 4:15 p.m. Reception to celebrate the opening of the Spring semester and the launching of the Kellogg Institute's activities and programs. Great Hall, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 7 p.m. Faculty Senate meeting. Room 100-104, Center for Continuing Education. 8:10 p.m. A comedy in three acts: "Out of the Frying Pan," St. Edward's Hall Players. Washington Hall. $3.50 for students. $4.50 for non-students.  

Notre Dame 
Gourmet Hamburgers Acapulco Chicken Chicken in the Pot 

MENU 
2 

1 **** 
* 
PIZZA AND POOL PARTY FOOD, GAMES AND at Rolfs Aquatic Center ** ENTERTAINMENT ** 9:00-12:00 at LaFortune ** Free with wristband *** 8:00-1:00available at LaFortune Info. Desk 
STUDENT UNION BOAilD 




-
Sports 
page 16 Thurday, January 21,1993 

Duquesne transfers out of shrinking MCC conference
HOLANDO 

Detroit Mercy, Evansville, La Salle, 
DE AGUIAR 

Observer Staff Report 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference lost its second member in two months
Cheap Shots 

yesterday, as Duquesne University has decided to return to the Atlantic 10 
Macleod's mastery 
providing a magical 
first half of hoops 
Who woulda thunk it? 

Who woulda believed that John 
MaeLeod's Irish would be .500 halfway 
through the regular season? And who 
woulda bnlieved that the big heroes at 
this stage in the season would be a 
freshman and a Hoss? 

Everybody l}eaped megatons of verbal dtmg on John MacLeod's basketball team in the preseason. But the Irish stand tall today, at 7-7, heading into a Saturday confrontation with LaSalle. 
With no real seniors anywhere near the starting lineup, Notre Dame has picked up where it left off last year-surprising the big boys with tough, capable play, and struggling against Jesser teams. 
But everyone expected the Irish to struggle against lesser teams. In November, we all thought that they were the least of the lesser. 
And indeed, they looked like it at first, stumbling into a win at Loyola (Ill.) in the season opener. And though Notre Dame has been sloppy in many games since-in the last week's losses to Michigan and Butler the Irish committed a total of 44 turnovers-they've come away with wins half of the time, beating comers like Boston College and Stanford, while only Matt Nover's luck kept the Irish from stunning second-ranked Indiana. 
Indiana is only one of the national pow•~rhouses that MacLeod has had to prepare for this season. While the Irish couldn't quite make the monumental comeback they needed against fifth­ranked Michigan, they showed that they have the confidence they'll need to beat number three North Carolina, number four Kentucky and sixth­ranked Duke, the two-time defending national champion. 
MaeLeod doesn't make any excuses for his team. He tells everyone what went wrong in losses, and he makes sure that everyone knows why the Irish win. 
One of the big reasons that the Irish have won is forward Monty Williams, who has returned to the Irish lineup this season as the team's most con­sistent player. Williams, who kept in shape during his sophomore and junior years by playing at the Hock almost ev­ery night, turns in an outstanding performance almost every time he suits up. 
But Notre Dame has been so formidable to every opponent because everyone has come up with a star performance. Freshman Hyan Hoover has been a sparkplug all year long, while Brooks Boyer has shown himself to be a dutch shooter. 
Maybe Joe Ross will have a monstrous game against LaSalle. After all, even Jon had his fifteen minutes of fame, pouring in 21 points against Butler. 
Who woulda thunk it? 

effective July 1, 1993. 
Duquesne joins Dayton as a lame-duck members of the MCC for the remainder of the 1992-93 season. Dayton an­nounced it was leaving for the Great Midwest Conference in December. 
The Dukes, who along with La Salle entered the MCC this season, are going 
~~i!i!!~i!i!~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:_ knocking off previously undefeated Sorin 
• 64-30. Coached by assistant rector AndyINSIDE SPORTS Curoe and captained by Tom Kelly, Morrissey has tried to push the tempo
.Barkley $U$peft$ipg: [;:::},:,;]:::;,,,,{/( ,::::::::ii[}:{ ·into an open court game while keeping =::\ );; @ \i:J}{ :::::::/''t:::::::::i::[i::ii!mii ·:,§(i)ept!Q~.14 the number of turnovers down. 
-:;~~~·,,~;:_;:~:i:l~lr;~::l~i:~~· s:~~~:~~h:c~!f;~;~~~;~~:t~~:;:!~:: ·~~~~~· Smith,sh~~ ~.,.•,·,·,·,',•,··,·,.'·.·,·•.·.·.','.', ..•. ..,••,·,·,·.••,·.·.··'.=•.='.'.·e•,·,=.•.:,,,',=.•,·.,•'.·,··.···'·~.',• take advantage of a core of good
.•. ,.·...••...r>.·•.·•,.ty,•., •.•.iltn ... =.·=.···.·•,,•,:,·.·•.. •,·

,)~::::::: •,j:::;~;=::==:'iifijiji!i'jjj'i'::::j:j:::,,.:::.=::,,;,: -~m~ ' shooters. Post players Brendan Tully and 

The MCC is now faeing a potential problem, as its stability has been damaged with the Joss of two schools. The conference now only has only six full-time members remaining: Butler, 
Midwestern Collegiate Conference 
back to the conference which they were a part of from 1982-83 through last season. The Atlantic 10 will now consist of nine teams: Massachusetts, George Washington, Hutgers, Saint Bonaventure, West Virginia, Temple, Saint Joseph's, Hhode Island and Duquesne. 
Loyola (Ill.) and Xavier. 
Notre Dame also belongs to the conference in most sports, the main exception being men's basketball, which the Irish compete as an independent. 
Editor's note: Tomorrow's Observer will take a closer look on what this means for the future of the MCC and Notre Dame Olympic sports. 
Janicke scores big in leadership role 
---lllllllllllllllllllllllilllllliilllllli•:zllllll.l!ll£4 tl£1111112llllllli!llllllllllllllll--iiii!J!IIIilll!'*llili~l!l!llllllllll!liiii!II!OIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJl!lllllllllll!l.ll!ll!lllllllllll!lilllliillllliilllillllliiiiiiii.IIIIIIIU By DOMINIC AMOROSA 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports information Senior Curtis Janicke has led the Irish throughout his career, ranking seventh all-time in assists and closing in on the top-ten in scoring. 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team has struggled throughout the year in their inaugural season playing in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. As the Irish fight to gain respectability, senior center Curtis Janicke has become a focal point of the squad. 
On a team loaded with un­derclassmen, Janicke has had to step forward and lead his younger teammates. As an assistant captain, Janicke holds major responsibilities as a team leader on and off the ice. 
Irish coach Ric Schafer compares Janicke to E.F. Hutton. "When Curtis speaks, people listen," noted Schafer. "Our younger guys look up to him because of his work ethic and attitude." 
Besides excelling on the ice, the Brooklyn Park, Mn., native finds the time to shine in the classroom. He recently attained the Dean's List for his performance during the fall semester. He is enrolled in the College of Business Administration and he carries a 3.105 cumulative GPA throughout his four years at Notre Dame. As a result of his academic work, Janicke is a leading candidate for academic all­conference honors. 
"Playing a sport helps me manage my time a Jot better and it keeps me focused in theclassroom, "he says. Janicke isn't the only Irish player who excels in the classroom, as thirteen Irish players achieved at least a 
3.0 GPA for the semester 
Schafer calls Janicke's suc­cess, "a tribute to Curtis' hardwork, because he realizes that hockey might end after this season and he prepared for it in advance." 
On the ice, Janicke has a chance to move into the career top-ten scoring chart for the Irish. As a junior, he Jed the squad in seoring with 50 points on 12 goals and 38 assists. His 96 eareer setups rank him seventh on the Irish career list. Throughout his career, Janicke has played in all but three of his 117 games. 
Janicke describes himself as a "finesse type player who passes the puck well." , "He's a real competitor who does not accept defeat well," said Schafer, "When Curtis gets hit, he will hit back, which is a quality we need." 
In his last 11 games, Janicke is on a tear with 7 goals and 13 assists. "The combination of the team playing well and guys putting the puck in the right place at the right time have been the keys to my success," attributes Janicke. 
Schafer cited more reasons for Janicke's roll. "He's staying out of the penalty box and logging a Jot more 
see JANICKE!page 13 
Unbeaten Morrissey tops interhall basketball 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 

The men's interhall basketball A League has gotten off to a highly competitive start, as each of the three divisions boast tight races for the top two spots and a chance at the playoffs. 
The teams have been divided into three divisions, named for the top conferences in college basketball, the Metro, the Big 10, and the ACC. The teams each play a six-game regular season, with the top two from each division advancing for a shot at the championship. 
The Metro division is headed by Morrissey, which has roared to an impressive 4-0 start, most recently 
Brian Corbett have been key factors in the success, adding inside scoring threats and solid rebounding. 
Dillon is also competitive in the Metro, starting off strong but falling on hard times of late. Before break Dillon won two impressive games against Grace and Planner, racking up margins of victory that went well into double figures. 
However, since coming back the team has lost two close games to even its record. Despite the scoring of guard Jeff Godddard and the strong play of Chris Garlitz, captain Mark Frigo lamented his team's inability to rebound and get back on defense in the past few games, but noted that the team is capable of getting back into winning form any time. 
Surprising St. Ed's has stunned the Big 10 division, jumping out to an undefeated 4-0 mark. After blowing out Zahm by more than thirty, the team rallied for close wins over the powerful towers. 
Sophomore forward Pat Walsh hit a twenty-foot jumper at the buzzer to knock off a tough Flanner squad, and then leading scorer Tony Gentine led a four-point victory over Grace, nailing three important free throws down the stretch to ice the game. 
St. Ed's is followed by Off-Campus in the Big 10, whose second place record stands at 3-1. However, if any team will improve it will be this squad, which includes a few varsity football players who just joined the team. Given a chance to play together a few more times, they will surely be formidable going into the playoffs, Jed by Pete Tulchinsky and Brad Leshnock at guard and Hay Griggs up front. 
The ACC has been dominated by Fisher, which at 4-0 hasn't lost a regular season game since 1990 and advanced to last year's final against Pangborn. After beating Dillon A2 by double figures and Morrissey A2 by five, the team rallied from ten down at the beginning of the fourth quarter to beat previously undefeated Cavanaugh by three. 
Following up on a strong effort from the reserves to get the team back in contention, sophomore Eddie Vrdolyak hit two three-pointers to even the score, and leading scorer Tim Frank clinched it with free throws in the final minutes. 







