--~-~~-~~---~----------~-­

Thursday, September 9, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.9 Tllf INDli)ENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students find off-campus living an attractive alternative 
Quest for freedom sends NO students off campus 
NumberofstudentslivinginOff-Campushousing during the Fall Term: 
By SARAH DORAN and JULIE BARRETT 
News Editors 
A greater sense of freedom and laid back atmosphere, in addition to a reprieve from en­forced parietals, continues to fuel the decision to move off campus for many Notre Dame seniors. 
The number of seniors mov­ing off continues to grow each year as 927 seniors presently reside in non-University hous­ing, up from 788 during the same period last year, accord­ing to figures obtained from the Offices of the Registrar and Off­Campus Housing. 
"For my senior year, I want­ed to focus on other things apart from the dorm and gain the independence that Notre Dame does not allow when liv­ing on campus," said Kendra Pickens, who lives at Castle Point Apartments. 
"I was so involved in Lyons as hall president last year that as time went on, I realized I want­ed to spend more time with the five people I live with instead of 300 girls in the dorm," she said. 
"Freedom and lack of pari­etals are the reasons I moved off," said senior Ryan Lake, who lives in a house on Notre Dame Avenue. 
"We have five bedrooms here, which is more space than we would have in a dorm, and don't have to deal with any­one," he said. "The freedom is great." 
Yet administrators do not see the number of seniors living off campus as representative of an increasing trend, but rather as contributing to a constant that has remained at roughly 85 percent of undergraduates liv­ing on campus, according to William Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life. 
"There has been no indica­tion of a consistent trend other that a greater number of se­niors living off than juniors," he said. 
However, Jackie Enderle, a rental consultant at Castle Point Apartments, has noticed such an increase in student interest to move off campus. 
"We have had more students this year interested in living at Castle Point than we have places available," Enderle said. "And every year the number increases." 
There are currently 75-100 ND, SMC and IUSB students liv­ing at the complex, roughly 10 percent of the tenants, she said. 
"The price of living off cam­pus is less expensive than that of on campus," she added, ex­plaining why students desire to live on their own. "And many of the students are sick of living in the dorms because they have no privacy and less freedom." 
see OFF CAMPUS I page 4 



St. Mary's increases financial aid 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
Keeping the financial aid bud­get in equal proportion with increasing direct tuition prices, Saint Mary's College awarded more financial aid to more stu­dents this year than in past years, according to Dan Osberger, vice president for fis­cal affairs. 
"This year more than 50 per­cent of all Saint Mary's students received scholarships, grants, student loans and work study employment opportunities," said Osberger. 
"In comparison to past years, this figure has undergone a fairly large increase. On the average, 75 percent of students at other colleges and universi­ties are eligible to receive some form of financial aid. Saint Mary's is moving toward this norm." 
"Perhaps one of the most commonly misunderstood facts regarding financial aid is that many middle income families do not realize that they are eli­gible for aid. Families earning up to $70,000 have received assistance. It all depends on the individual's circumstances," he said. 
One difference that sets Saint Mary's apart from other insti­tutions is that when financial aid is awarded to students, grants and gifts are utilized be­fore loans and work study, ac­cording to Osberger. Most other schools tend to provide loans and work study programs first and grants and gifts as a secondary alternative, he said. 
Saint Mary's believes in a friendlier philosophy than this, according to Osberger. By tak­ing students interests in mind first, the administration stays in line with the College's mission statement and, as an insti­tution, Saint Mary's has a large commitment to giving financial aid, he said. 
"Although available financial aid has increased, the work study opportunities for students has not dramatically increased this year," said Osberger. 
One of the factors for the in­creasing student aid is because the increasing costs of private education. 
"A reality of private education is that we do not have a huge endowment to help defray the costs of tuition and room and board fees," said Osberger. "In April, Saint Mary's tuition in­creased to balance operating costs and. faculty's salaries. In order to maintain the close stu­dent/faculty interaction and personalized academic counsel­ing and advising , we must match these costs. We will not sacrifice quality in education to hold down costs. In addition there are costs covering new technology and safety modifi­cations." 
"Board costs for this year did not increase from past years. Students are currently receiv­ing more services, specifically Marriott's Carte Blanc pro­gram, for no increased fees," added Osberger. 
Despite these increases, fi­nancial aid has increased at a higher rate than costs for the past five to six years, which fa­vors students, according to Osberger. 
Most of the grants given to Saint Mary's students are taken from College resources, and not so much federal or state re­sources. 
"Recently, the federal reserve of grants has shrunk and the bulk of the burden shifted to the individual institutions and students," said Osberger. "For example the Pell Grant, given to many students, was legislated to increase to approximately $3,700; however, the maximum funding available in reality was only $2,300, but that is still a dramatic increase for the Pell Grant." 

By ROB~~NAYLORjlt 
Press 

Advantages draw SMC off campus 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
Off-campus living for stu­dents at Saint Mary's provides the advantages of increased freedom, but these students also face a decrease in finan­cial aid funding and a feeling of isolation from many school ac­tivities. 
Presently 153 Saint Mary's students reside in off campus housing, according to the regis­trar. This number is about equal to last year's 151 stu­dents off campus. 
While this year's numbers are consistent with the past years the number of Saint Mary's students living off cam­pus has been decreasing over the last four years. 
The decrease in the number of students moving off campus 
· may be due to the financial sit­uation that off campus students face. 
Students are often misin­formed about the differences in financial aid packages for on and off campus students, ac­cording to Mary Nucciarone, director of Financial Aid. 
"Both (on and off campus) students are eligible for finan­cial aid, which I think is an im­portant but misunderstood piece of information," she said. 
On campus students pay $19,000 in tuition and living expenses for a year, while off­campus totals are closer to $17,500 since a food plan is not included. 
"So obviously, the student who lives off campus would be receiving less grant money," said Nucciarone. 
As for aid available directly from Saint Mary's, Nucciarone said that "the college doesn't feel we should be using institu­tional (resources) to support living off-campus." 
Students who reside ofT cam­pus in general feel that the costs outweigh the benefits. 
"It's a lot quieter. No con­gested halls and students talk­ing on the phone at three o'clock in the morning," said Ann Mercarella, a senior living ofT campus. 
One of the nicer advantages is the ability to get cable T.V., she admits, a limited resource on campus. But, she said driv­ing time to and from class and a feeling of isolation from some school activities are a few of the drawbacks. 
Keeping ofT campus students involved in school events is a major concern for Carrie Piercy, an off campus advisor for off campus students. Mercarella, who is the off cam­pus representative for the 
see SMC OFF I page 4 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Welcon1e to the real world 

"Julie, why on God's magnificent earth would you ever, in your wildest of dreams, want to leave the most beautiful and safest place on earth?" interro­gated my Dad when I told him I was moving off 


It was as if I was leaving Disney's Magic Kingdom for L.A.'s Watts district. 
This is not to say that South Bend is at all the armpit of America-my father himself grew up in this lovely midwestern township. 
The fact is that moving ofT campus does entail some serious life-altering changes. 
No longer am I under the protective wing o Notre Dame and the safety and comfort that such a small, insular environment provides. 
School is no longer a hop, skip and a jump away, I don't have a hot-cooked meal waiting for me three times a day and a friendly security guard is no longer there to greet me when I come home late at night. 
Now I have a car to care for, I have to learn how to cook (unless I want to starve or go broke eating fast food every day and investing in a ton of Pepto Bismal), and remember to set the alarm before I leave my place or go to bed. 
I also feel a bit alienated from the University, feeling sometimes more like a visitor than a full-fledged student. Notre Dame is now a place I go to for a couple of hours to take classes instead of my life. 
But all that comfort and security can't beat the freedom and responsibility of living on my own. I call the whole experience Life 101: Learning to live in the Real World. 
True, I'm still a student feeding off my par­ent's monthly rent checks; however, at least I'm starting to make that inevitable transition into the hard, cruel world beyond the warm glow o the golden dome where one stands alone. 
I am slowly making the break from Notre Dame and dealing with the separation anxiety that accompanies leaving one's motherland and setting forth into unchartered waters. 
I definitely recommend this experience to every Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student. Sooner or later you're going to have to learn to organize and pay the water, gas and electric bills on time, grocery shop, especially for red dot specials using coupons cut out from Sunday's paper, and remember to lock all the doors, set the alarm and maybe even leave on a light or the TV before leaving the house. 
And eventually you're going to have to learn how to kick members of the opposite sex out o your place without using the excuse that pari­etal visiting hours are over. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Theresa Aleman Macy Hueckel 
Julie Barrett Production Corrine Doran Susan Marx Sarah Doran Jackie Moser 
Sports Accent Jenny Marten Kenya Johnson Viewpoint Graphics Rolando de Aguiar Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

~----,---,----.--......-----. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 9, 1993 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Literacy Findings Called 'Shocking' 
WASHINGTON 

A "shocking" number of American adults read, write and compute too poorly to perform simple, everyday tasks and can't function in jobs that demand skilled workers able to decipher complex information, according to a nattonwide survey. 
The survey results, released Wednesday by the Education Department, show that 90 million Americans -47 percent of the 
Level 1 (0-225), level 2 (226-275), level 3
nation's adult population-possess only rudimentary literacy skills. 
(276-325), level 4 (326-375), level 5
Education Secretary Dick Riley said the findings "should be a wake­
(376-500)
up call for every American, including those who have finished high school, to go back to school to get an education tuneup." 
Light reading
The results, he said, were "shocking." Education officials avoided using the word "illiterate" to describe ~ 30% 1-----+---f­even those with the least skills, saying many have rudimentary read­
! 20%
ing, writing and math abilities. Among the findings of the National Adult Literacy Survey: .610% 
•As many as 40 million of the nation's 191 million adults have only 
~ 0%
the lowest level of skills, meaning they can total an entry on a bank deposit slip or identify a piece of specific information in a brief news article. Many respondents were unable to complete even those tasks. 
Notre  Dame's  sacred  Julie Barren  
campus to venture into  Associate News Editor  
the wild unknown of the  
South Bend community  
for my senior year.  

•An estimated 50 million can calculate the total of a purchase, deter­
Heavy reading 
mine the difTerence in price between two items or locate a particular intersection on a street map. 
~ 30'Yol----+--l­
•An estimated 61 million can decipher information from long or 
!~ 20%
dense texts or documents, while an estimated 34 million to 40 million possess the skills required for the most challenging tasks. 
.6 10% 
Q)

•Young 
adults-those 21 years to 25 years old-surveyed last year showed literacy skills 11 to 14 percentage points lower than those in 

~ 0% the same age group participating in a 1985 survey. The report blamed the change in part on an increase in the number of people speaking English as a second language. 

•Older 
adults were more likely than middle-age and younger adults to show limited literacy skills. The report said they were less well edu­


~ 30% f-----+-----1­
cated. ~ 
(0 20%
•Blacks, American Indians and Native Alaskans, Hispanics and 
Asians were more likely than whites to have performed in the lower = 
.610% 
Q)

two of five proficiency levels. 
The study, by the department's National Center for Educational ~ 0% Statistics, showed that those functioning at the higher skill levels were more often employed, work more weeks in a year and command high­Skill level er wages than those at the lower levels. 
The DOE study results were based on interviews
For example, those functioning at the lowest proficiency levels 
conducted in the first eight months of 1992 with
reported working an average of 18 to 19 weeks in 1991, while those at 
more than 13,000 adults age 16 and older. They the highest three levels said they worked on average between 34 and were randomly selected. 44 weeks. 
Source: U.S. Department of Education AP/Brian Sipple 
Newspaper employees set strike deadline Sexual consent policy In force 
NEW YORK YELLOW SPRINGS, Ohio 
The union representing editors and reporters at the Students at Antioch College must otTer mutual consent New York Post has set a strike deadline for Thursday to kiss, then get consent again to go further, and again evening, placing the tabloid's future in jeopardy once and again right up to having sex. again. A school policy adopted in January to combat acquain­
The Post is being run by Rupert Murdoch, who is trying tance rape and other sexual ofTenses was revised recently to put together a deal to take the paper out of bankrupt­to state that obtaining consent is a continuing process. cy. He has reached agreements with three of the newspa­"On one level it has been widely supported," said .Jim per's craft unions and negotiated with The Newspaper Mann, spokesman for the college, where about 70 per­Guild, the largest union at the paper. cent of the 700 students are women. "On another level it 
Talks with the Guild broke off Tuesday; negotiations has been greeted with some humor." also have been held with five other unions. Under the guidelines, "Verbal consent should be 
Management "put three major issues on the table," obtained with each new level of physical and, or sexual Harry Leykis, Guild chairman at the Post, said contact or conduct in any given interaction, regardless of Wednesday evening. "One was retirement pay, the sec­who initiates it. ond was job security -they wanted a four-month win­"Asking, 'Do you want to have sex with me?' is not dow with the right to fire anybody without regard to enough. The request for consent must be specilic for each seniority or anything else -and they wanted the right to act." subcontract." Mann said, "What this establishes is, 'I did say no.' It 
Peter Faris, executive vice president of the paper, said also establishes that if someone is drunk or passed out, "if there is a strike and this paper is unable to publish they do not have the ability to consent." then the likelihood of (Murdoch pulling out) is very high." The policy is enforced through an on-campus review of 
But Leykis said: "We understand the risk we are tak­any alleged violations, with violators subject to discipli­ing. I have been here since 1950 and they tell me I have nary action that can include being kicked out of school, no retirement. What is so frightening about this to me?" Mann said. Victims can also complain to police and be 
In recent years, the tabloid has struggled for survival assigned advocates to represent them. despite dwindling circulation in a highly competitive mar­Mann said he knows of no reports of any violations ket. since the new policy was adopted last January. 
NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 




The Observer/T. J. Harris 

Scenic sketching 
Freshman David Rodriguez does a sketch for his architecture class as freshman Virginia Thompson looks on. 



Saint Mary's will host bicycle auction 
By BETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Thirty to forty unclaimed, impounded bicycles will be auc­tioned at the ninth annual Saint Mary's Security Bicycle Auction tonight at prices ranging from approximately one to forty dol­lars, according to Dick Chlebek, director of Saint Mary's securi­ty. 
Returning students have been given the opportunity to reclaim their impounded bicy­cles for a ten dollar fee, but many of the same bicycles are auctioned each year due to stu­dent failure to respond to notifi­cation of the impoundings. 
"The auction is a good way for Saint Mary's students to find affordable transportation," said Chlebek. 
Although the security de­partment is expecting to make approximately 150 dollars on the auction this evening, it is not intended as a fund raiser. The money will be turned into the business office at Saint Mary's for the general fund for the operation of the college, ac­cording to Chlebek. 
"I think that the auction is a great opportunity for students that live far away from school and have no way of bringing their bikes here," said sopho­more Carolyn Dale. 
I 
1· .:~ 
..,....~·· 
\. Cjo....... }

DATE: 
Thursday, September 9th LOCATION: Stepan Center 
f.~~·: 

TIME: 
7:00-10:00 PM 

STARTER...The leadi1g authentiC apparel &headwear licensee of the NFL, NBA. MLB. NHL and the NCAA now bnngs y~u STARTER. ..THE BRAND 
--------------------------------------~-------­
·~ 
page 3 


Howard named director of research laboratory 
Special to The Observer 
George Howard, professor of psychology at the University of Notre Dame, has been named director of the University's Laboratory for Social Research, according to Harold Attridge, dean of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters. 
The Laboratory for Social Research is the new name for the former Social Science Training and Research Laboratory (SSTRL). Howard succeeds C. Lincoln Johnson, who has returned to full-time teaching and research in the sociology department after serving 16 years as the SSTRL director. 
According to Howard, the Laboratory for Social Research will build on its past experience to make research consultation and support for faculty and graduate students its primary mission. 
This emphasis on research support, the name change, and other recommendations re­sulted from an evaluation of the lab during 1992-93 by a college committee, with input from a panel of external reviewers. 
Howard, a native of New Jersey, earned his bachelor's degree in psychology from Marist College, his master's in learning psychology and his doctorate in counseling psy­chology from Southern Illinois University. He came to Notre Dame in 1981 after internships at Duke University and Wichita State University followed by six years on the faculty at the University of Houston. 
He previously has served the Notre Dame psychology de­partment as director of gradu­ate studies and as department chair, and he continues as a faculty fellow in the Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values. 
With interests in counseling psychology, learning psychol­ogy, and research methodology, he is the author of four books and a wide range of papers. Howard currently is studying the role of incentives in pro­moting ecologically and eco­nomically rational behavior. 

High school teacher is convicted of sexual abuse 
By TOM STUCKEY Associated Press 
ANNAPOLIS 

A former high school teacher was convicted Wednesday of sexually abusing three of his students, who testified that they willingly engaged in sex with him throughout the school grounds. 
Before the Anne Arundel County Circuit Court jury found 48-year-old Ronald Price guilty on seven counts of sexual abuse, he admitted he had sex with two students. 
"The jury made their deci­sion," Price said following the verdict. "It doesn't pay to tell the truth." 
Judge Eugene Lerner re­voked Price's house arrest and ordered that he be taken into custody. A sentencing hearing was set for Oct. 22. Price, who taught at Northeast High School in Pasadena, a Baltimore suburb, could be sentenced to 76 years in prison. 
The trial began Tuesday with graphic testimony from three former students who said Price had sex with them as often as seven times a week. 
The students, one of whom 
said she had just turned 15 
when she first had sex with Price, testified about perform­ing sex acts on a catwalk above the auditorium, in the football stadium press box, in class­rooms, storage rooms, the li­brary, dressing rooms and a hallway. 
Price, a social studies teacher who also served as a drama club adviser and girls softball coach, resigned shortly after his indictment in May. The case attracted national attention after he appeared on several tabloid-style television shows, saying he had sex with seven students over the last 20 years. 
One of those students was Price's wife, Patricia, now 25, who said she had an affair with Price when she was 17. "I knew what I was doing," she said. 
Neither Price nor his lawyer contested the three counts of unnatural and perverted sex practices and one count of fourth-degree sex offense with a child under age 16. 
Testifying Wednesday, Price admitted he had sex with two students, but denied allegations by a third woman that they had an affair while he was her drama club adviser. 
. ~~~ SPONSORED 
~·~.,.... 

j~~~~ ~-==> 
-t 1ft' .. 
• 

~----------~----------------------------------~---·---­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1993 



SMC Off 
continued from page I 
Board of Governance, has the duty of keeping students in­formed of school activities. 
"(Just) because they live off campus doesn't mean they want to be cut off from campus events," she said. 
Piercy has high hopes for 

assembling a board comprised 
CORRECTION

of residents from the different 
apartment complexes where students live to plan both com­munity activities and events like an off campus dance. 
She believes that living away from campus is a good opportu­nity for some students. 
"It gives them an experience as far as what is to come after colle9.e. and a little more free­dom. 
A special to The Observer yesterday gave incorrect in­formation about student tickets for the "Rudy" premiere taking place on October 6. The $25 ticket cost does not include ad­mission to the post-premiere party. The Observer regrets the error. 
Off campus 
continued from page I 

But living on campus does have its benefits, too, according to Phil Johnson, assistant direc­tor of ND Security. 
"Although there are crimes on campus, they are not with the same frequency and sever­ity as living off, because the campus community is much more isolated," he explained. 
The precautions that must be taken when living out of Notre Dame security's jurisdiction have been brought to many stu­dents attention by the recent burglaries of various Lafayette Square Townhouses, homes near Notre Dame Avenue and several car break-ins at Turtle Creek Apartments. 
Lake has seen these added consequences and responsibili­ties first hand-he and his roommates were burglarized three weeks ago. Since the burglary, they have made such improvements as double bolted locks and the addition of a dog, he said. 
"But I still don't regret my decision to live off campus," he added. 
Most of the student off cam­pus residences do provide extra security features such as ran­dom police patroling, Castle Point Apartments has a 24­hour gatekeeper on duty, and the Lafayette Townhouses and the Notre Dame Apartments are equipped with alarm sys­tems. 
A popular rumor that stu­dents often hear upon making the decision to move off cam­pus is that relocation away from the University will affect a student's financial aid package, but such rumors are mythical, according to Joseph Russo, di­rector of financial aid. 
"Moving off campus is neither a plus nor a minus-it is not going to give students any more money or any less money," he said. 
"Generally aid is not re­stricted to a specific cost of liv­ing. Where students are going to live does not enter into it," he said. 
Although the University has invested in off campus housing in the form of a loan to Matteo Enterprises, the investment is not related to any need to in­crease off campus housing op­portunities for students, according to James Lyphout, vice president for business affairs. Matteo Enterprises has used the loan to fund the pur­chase and refurbishment of the Notre Dame Apartments. 
"The benefit for the University was not to be in­volved with student off campus housing, rather to help stabilize the neighborhood and rid it of the crime emanating from the apartments. The terms of the loan do not allow the University any management responsibili­ties," Lyphout said. 
Notre Dame has no plans to become directly involved with off campus rental to students, and has a policy of not renting off campus properties it owns to students, he said. 
"We facilitated Matteo's pur­chase of the apartments by pro­viding a loan with somewhat more attractive terms than a financial institution could offer," said James Lyphout, vice president for business affairs. 
In fact, the University was given the opportunity to pur­chase the apartments a few years ago, but was uninter­ested, he said. 





The Hammes 
CDs On Sale! 
Our Mix Of Music Is Bigger & Better
Notre Dame 
Than Ever Before ... Check It Out! 
Bookstore 
Stop in and check out a world of music on our Muze! It's a computer that will search out the 
"On The Campus" 
hardest to find music ...and our special orders 
phone: 631,6316 

now take only a few days in most cases! 
store hours: Mon,Sat: 9 a.m.' 5 p.m. 
THETHE . 


INFECTED ~ 
Including; lnf.cted/Hurtland/Siow hln To Dawn 
The Beat 

$10.99 on CD ( $9.99 on CD) 

STEVIE RAY VAUGHAN 

TOAD THE WET SPROCKET BREAD AND CIRCUS ~~­
AND DOUBLE TROUBLE 

lnctud~ng 
One LltU• Ql,tiW•y Aw•yiK"ow M•
COULDN'T STAND THE WEATHER 
Including. 

Alwa~~~~~':~~~"K:::~•bfy Cold S~~~~~.::;,h~~~;~~~Return) 
z 
$10.99 on CD c$10.99 
on en) 
$10.99 on CD $10.99 on CD 




page 5 

Academy of Sciences calls 
for abortion pill testing 
By PAUL RECER 
vent pregnancy when taken up Associated Pres5 to 72 hours after unplanned or unwanted intercourse, or after WASHINGTON a contr~J,ceptive method such 
An abOrtirin pill '\'Videly used as a condom has failed. in Europe but forbidden in Because of the European ex· America should 'be rapidly perience, the NAS report said, evaluated by the Food and an extensive u.s. drug trial 
Drug Administration for sale such as the FDA normally in the United States, a panel of would require "does not ap­experts saidWednesday. pear necessary" for the abor• 
A committee of the National tion use of RU-486 during the Academy of Sciences said the first trimester of a pregnancy. abortion pill RU~486 bas been U.S. clinical trials were rec­so extensively tested in ommended, however. on uSing France, Britain and Sweden RU-486 for second-trimester thatthe FDA should consider it abortions. The committee said wltbout requiting further cUrii~ these studies should focus on cal trials in the United States. dosage and side effects, such 
Researchers also should ex­a!l pain, bleeding, infection pedment\vith Rt.J4486£or . ~nd the surgery required if the othef uses, including as a drug fails. "morning-after" pill and as a treatmentJ'or 'b.tea~t cah~e:r Additionally. the CoJilmittee and brain tumors, the NAS ·· recommended that RU~486 be report said. · · studied for use in regulating 
.,\bortioil poJitiQ!i!. kept RU• the. menstrual ~ycle and for 486 off the U.S. market d\lring treatment of two female pelvic the Reagan and Bush disorders, endometriosis and administrat,ions, but President .,fU.roid~~ The cpmmittee also Clintpn inJanuary called for ·'said th,at RU~486 shows res~.atch into the drug. The promis~ in the treatment of a,c~'!J~rnY receiy~,d funding .. breast cancer, brain tumors f'rmn the private }l(;)nry Ka,iser .and of Cushing's syndrome, a Faririly Foundation to evaluate disorder of the adrenal gland th~.sciem~e. a,ndJ'be clinical that can· caustl ... ~ental distur• 
uselfof the drug. ··· ,,,,, · hances~w tmH 
More thzm 60,000 women The report was prepared by have used RU-486 for abor· a group of seven experts til))}s·in.. Europe; The NAS selected by the. Insti~ute· o;f report said that health officials Medicine. The institute is affil~ there have found th,e pill in ·. iated with ·the National collibination With> anotbf:lt J\cadetp)' ofS~hmces,a con~dru.g to bC ~·a. safe a:nd etlica-gressionally chartered private 
·cious medical tre~tmentJor organization of distinguished ~arty pregttancy terrnlna.~qn~" ...·.. .S:eientiS:tS and !;}ngineers. It$ · European studies demon-· advice is not binding on any strated that the pill could pre· government agency. 
Report suggests chemical weapons caused illness 
Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Signing up to smile 
Jim Meyers signs up for his senior portrait in LaFortune. 
The Observer • NEWS 
The ObserverfT. J. Harris 
National Baptist leader to step down 
By DAVID BRIGGS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Reverend T. J. Jemison, who took over where Martin Luther King Jr. had given up in bringing a new wave of social activism to the nation's largest black church, said Wednesday he will step down as its leader in 1994. 
Jemison, buffeted recently by accusations he tried to silence the rape victim of boxer Mike Tyson, said he would leave the presidency of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A. Inc. as required by church tenure laws when his term expires in 1994. 
"I couldn't accept another term unless the constitution is changed, and I don't seek a change," Jemison said in an interview on the opening day of the denomination's 113th an­nual convention. 
Jemison said that he would support the association's long­time general secretary, W. Franklyn Richardson, pastor of Grace Baptist Church in Mount Vernon. 
Four other ministers also have announced their candida­cies, and politicking had al­ready started Wednesday at the start of the five-day meeting. 
Jemison's announcement came as a big surprise. 
Presidents of the denomina­tion have historically tried to hold power as long as possible. 
The Reverend J. H. Jackson, who took the presidency from Jemison's blind and ailing fa­ther in 1953, stayed on as pres­ident into his 80s until 1982 when Jemison led a reform movement that ousted Jackson. 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Chemical toxins, including fallout from apparent chemical weapons missile attacks, are the likely cause of illnesses that have afflicted thousands of Persian Gulf War veterans, a senator asserted Wednesday. 
Sen. Donald W. Riegle, D­Mich., said the evidence of con­tamination by nerve gas and other chemical agents "is com­pelling enough to justify a sig­nificant research commit­ment." He is seeking $5.7 mil­lion for the research in an amendment to the bill authorizing Defense Department spending. 
A report by the senator's of­fice cited two examples where the Iraqis appear to have at­tacked U.S. positions in Saudi Arabia with missiles carrying chemical warheads. 

Wili.LI'l BRANOO lmERT CXNN..i. t<¥Rlll9iEEN .~ ~ FREOOliC fOO{ST AlBERT 00 ~ OOl1GIS IJffif FSill.JH:.. roHS t«Jf£R 
---·fRNaCDm}.

_,..OON f4JJS ..fRNa CDm). _,t«:WaHml """"""FHrniUG. GW~..]{)I Sl'ElNiffi -·-'I!TIDa) STCJlAI{) -..... [V,N ~~ .....IDWl!l ~
....,_,w/>iltR MU~ ...... ~~.. fR.A.'OSCDm}.
[R] [JJI,.,..,....,I" ANCMtiDIUHlm.croo Un1tedArtJsts ~ ••!;;:;::=: TtOtfilal.~ ~C>1179Qntw~ ........ ~ 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:00 & 10:00 
~N ESJ)~ ~ ~~ Spanish Mass '1)_ ~ ~ 
In Memory of Cesar Chavez 
domingo, 12 de Septiembre de 1993 11:30 a.m. The Grotto 
Rain site -Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Celebrante 

Padre Timothy Scully, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Breakfast will be served following the liturgy. 
••1 
0MPUS 
Sponsored.byCampus M1n1stry
Coro Primavera de Nuestra Sefiora
MINISTRY 

.---~---.~~----.-------------------------------------------~--------~----------~---­
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Judge recommends the denial of Lorenzo bid 
By JAMES RUBIN Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

An administrative law judge recommended Wednesday that the government deny a bid by Frank Lorenzo, banished head of Eastern and Continental air­lines, to operate a new dis­count-fare air carrier. 
Judge Richard Barton Jr. of the Transportation Department said the proposed airline, ATX Inc.. repeatedly has defied the judge's orders and has filed "frivolous and vexatious" mo­tions in its license application. 
"If, as I have found, ATX can­not be trusted to comply with the department and the judge's orders during the course of this proceeding, it certainly cannot be trusted to comply with fed­eral laws regulating the trans­portation of passengers and cargo," Barton said. 
The judge's recommendation now goes to the Transportation Department to decide whether to reject Lorenzo's application. The judge's findings are likely to carry great weight with de­partment officials. 
But Richard Danforth, a spokesman for Lorenzo, said, "The recommendation is fun­damentally and thoroughly wrong. We're absolutely confi­dent the Department of Transportation will refuse to follow the recommendation." 
Barton said ATX had demon­strated adequate financial fit­ness and managerial compe­tence. 
But. he said, the carrier "has not shown proper compliance disposition," a phrase he used to describe the Lorenzo-led air­line's refusal to abide by his orders. 
James Linsey, a lawyer for the Air Line Pilots Association that led the opposition to Lorenzo's application, wel­comed the judge's decision. 
"It's a hopeful sign for the 90s that the labor warfare of the 80s may be passed," he said. "Just as the controllers were rehired, Frank is re­tired." 
The Clinton administration last month lifted the hiring ban imposed by President Reagan on air traffic controllers fired 12 years ago for striking. 
Lorenzo had testified in unusual proceedings before Barton that his airline empire collapsed because of intransi­gent labor unions, not mis­management. 
He described himself as a successful manager for 30 years whose efforts to rescue troubled airlines were under­mined by unrealistic unions. 
ATX proposed to fly between the Baltimore-Washington area, Boston and Atlanta. 
Lorenzo proposed in March to launch Friendship Airlines -later renamed ATX Inc. ­along the East Coast. He con­trols 77 percent of the new car­rier. 
Eastern Airlines, already troubled when Lorenzo bought it in 1986, stopped flying in January 1991 after confronta­tions between Lorenzo and the unions led to a paralyzing strike. 
The unions accused Lorenzo of deceiving his employees into accepting wage cuts and stock that later proved worthless. The unions also said Lorenzo took over airlines to make a profit by selling off their assets. 
A federal bankruptcy judge in April 1990 awarded control of Eastern to a trustee after the company filed for bankruptcy. Later that year. Lorenzo sold his stake in Continental Airline Holdings and resigned as chair­man and chief executive of the company. He remained a director of Continental until January of this year. 
Scores in Congress joined the unions in questioning question Lorenzo's fitness as a manager, prompting the Transportation Department to assign the case to Barton. 
Lorenzo has not been alone in trying to create a tiny new airline. The financial troubles of the nation's largest carriers. which have lost more than $10 billion in the last three years, have prompted several en­trepreneurs to try to offer low­fare alternatives. 
Small airlines can take advantage of a surplus in air­craft and skilled employees to try to achieve cuts in labor and equipment costs. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days P0'SY .f;l ~i)tth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 

51400 31 North 
1-800-328-0206

South Bend, IN 46637 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Account Executive 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Anne Heroman as soon as possible. Contact Anne at 631-8840 for more information. 
House expected to be tough on NAFTA 
By KAREN BALL 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The House, considered the tougher battleground for President Clinton's push to ex· pand trade with Mexico and Canada, is expected to deal first with the issue and could vote by the end of October, supporters said Wednesday. 
As Congress returned to full force after its August break, supporters of the North American Free Trade Agreement stepped up their campaign and said they had to do a better public relations job and cast the pact as a "pro· growth, pro-jobs" issue. 
"There's no question about it, the American people are somewhat confused," said Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D·Ill. 
"It's going to be our obligation to straighten them out and to Jay out the facts about what NAFTA is and what it will do for our country." 
Opponents of the pact-in· eluding many of the union and environmental groups that helped elect Clinton -contend the pact would prompt U.S. companies to ship jobs across the border for cheap labor and lax environmental laws. 
Supporters note that Mexico already spends 70 cents of each of its export dollars on 
U.S. goods and predict that American exports would only increase under the pact; there· fore creating U.S. jobs. 
House Speaker Thomas Foley, D·Wash., and other sup­porters predicted a tough fight but ultimate victory in the House. The trade pact is ex· pected. to face a friendlier re­ception in the Senate, if it gets there. 
Foley, talking to reporters, noted that the House leader­ship is divided on the issue. House Whip David Bonior, D­Mich., for instance, is rounding up votes against it; House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., has reserva­tions but has not declared his voting intention. 
The speaker said the debate on NAFTA could get hostile, "but I don't think it's going to be disruptive or corrosive in the sense of leaving wounds and scars that will affect other attitudes on legislation." 
Some have wondered if an emotional battle on NAFT A would endanger Clinton's chances on pressing a health care reform bill. 

atbtNt\tJgork atimc~ 
DELIVERED FOR ONLY 30 CENTS/DAY MON-SAT! 
( ) MON-FRI $15.90 ( ) MON-SUN $46.30 ( ) MON-SAT $ 18.30 ( ) SUN ONLY $28.00 Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. 20th & ends Fri., Dec. 1Oth (No delivery during Fall or Thanksgiving breaks) 
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: CITY NEWS SERVICE 
Clip and mail to: City News Service, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend, IN 46615 
*CALL FOR OUR NEW OFF-CAMPUS DELIVERY RATES! 232-3205 

Klce Rcmbnndt 
l..auaec Raningtal 
Magritu: Rc:mir Matisse Roussuu Miro Scunt Monet Utrillo O'K<efc Von Gogh Picasso Vcnnec:r 
Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $171 
Thursday, September 9, 1993 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Congress weighs bill with military-gay restrictions 
By DONNA CASSATA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The House of Representatives rejected Democratic attempts to cut deeper into President Clinton's budget for Ballistic Missile Defense as Congress began work Wednesday on next year's military budget. 
"The Cold War is over indeed, but the world is not less dan­gerous," Rep. Henry Hyde, R­Ill., told colleagues who heeded his words. 
By a vote of 227-202, the House turned aside a measure to slash $1 billion from Clinton's request of $3.8 billion for the program once known as the Strategic Defense Initiative. 
The House, voting 272-160, also rejected an amendment sponsored by Rep. Ron Dellums, D-Calif., the Armed Services Committee chairman, to reduce the budget to $1.5 billion. 
The House action came as Congress began work on a de­fense budget that would legal­ize a policy on homosexuals in the military that is far more re­strictive than Clinton's plan. 
The overall budget reflects the decline in post-Cold War spending but retains a number of -Bush administration weapons in a one-year, stand­pat plan. Both the House and Senate are considering the plan. 
In his first defense budget, Clinton proposed spending $263 billion in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, about $12 bil­lion less than this year. Lacking the time for a complete review, Aspin unveiled the budget in March, describing it as "tread­ing water." 
The Senate Armed Services Committee trimmed the overall request by $1.8 billion while the House panel reduced the amount by $571 million. 
In committee action in July, the panels took a swipe at funds for the Ballistic Missile Defense. The Senate panel trimmed the budget to $3.2 bil­lion; the House panel cut it to $3 billion. 
The most controversial issue is whether homosexuals can 
Believe us. Its not because our people don't work hard. They do. Very hard. But at Ernst & Young, we believe that 
working hard without working smart, is, to put it mildly, not the way of the future. This admittedly basic insight has led us to re-think age-old concepts of not simply how 
serve in the military. 

Confronted with opposition from Congress and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Clinton aban­doned his campaign pledge to lift the 50-year-old ban. Instead, in July, he adopted a compromise that ends the ques­tioning of recruits and service members about their sexual orientation but still prohibits homosexual conduct. 
The Senate and House panels took the policy one step further, writing into law for the courts and commanders that military service is unique and homo­sexuality is anathema. 
A leading proponent of the ban, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn, D-Ga., pushed for the more restrictive policy, and it won the support of conservative Democrats as well as Republicans on the House side. 
The major change embodied in Clinton's policy, an end to the questioning, would be con­tinued in the legislation, but the panels said a future defense secretary could reinstate the question. 
Among the other provisions of the House and Senate legis­lation are: 
•Cancellation 
of the Navy's planned AX carrier-based bomber and the Air Force's futuristic multi-role fighter. Congress received early word from the Pentagon that Aspin planned to kill the programs. 

•A 
pay raise of 2.2 percent for the military even though Clinton proposed an across-the­board pay freeze. 

•An 
end to the statutory ban on women serving on combat ships, a move consistent with Aspin's recent policy change. 


Earlier Wednesday, senators clashed over a provision in the committee bill that would set up a $20 million-a-year pro­gram for the American Metalcasting Consortium, a newly formed group of organi­zations representing the metal­casting and foundry industry. 
The Pentagon opposed the provision because less than 10 percent of America's metal­casting products go for defense and the program would not be subject to competitive bidding. 
Our new; state of the art headquarters in The Sears Tower was designed to encompass advanced technological systems, especially those allowing remote access by laptop computers from client sites and home offices, to vital client and regulatory information. The result: Ernst & Young professionals use their time more productively and creatively than ever. 
Which is the real point: technology is a tool, 
Imagine working for afirm so advanced, you maY. · actually be encoura~etl not to come to work. 
auditors, tax professionals and consultants should be conducting their business. But where. And led us on a fairly mind-boggling invest­ment in the technological systems, tools and mechanisms that enable our professionals to do their best thinking anywhere: in their offices. At client locations. Commuting. Even at home. 
Its a way ofstaying ahead of clients whose own sophistication demands that we provide nothing less. 
'not magic. And even the most sophisticated 
computer arsenal can never tum commonplace 
thinking into uncommon solutions. But ifyou're 
considering Ernst & Young, chances are you're 
rather uncommon yourself. 
So, ifyou're looking forward to the future, may we suggest a firm thats already there. 
·E!/ ERNST&YOUNG 
For an interview, see the placement office, or call Allison Lintner, Director ofRecruiting, at 8001869-9899. 
An Equal Opportunity I Affirmative Action Employer 
L_________________________________________________________________________________________________ . 
····which ous modules will be mounted. In 2003; there will be three laboratories, two compartments called nodes, and living quarters. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
We do it gladly (in our better moments), because this Cross is "holy." Our
Patronal Feasts 
feast day is not Good Friday, it is September 14. All the pain and the struggle and the death of our world are clearly seen, but seen in the full light and On Tuesday, September 14, the church celebrates the Feast of the Triumph of hope of the resurrection and its Spirited new life. God's plan ha~ and is andthe Cross. The following day, September 15, is the Feast of Our Lady of will be fully accomplished. Our final future is sure. So let's have a party. Let's Sorrows. These two days are special moments of prayer and joy for the enjoy our friends. Let's hear the gentle message of God's love and promise Sisters, Brothers, and Priests of the Congregations of Holy Cross, founders of and let's be free, and joyful, and filled with unassailable hope. 
St. Mary's and Holy Cross College, and the University of Notre Dame. 
Let's bring as much creativity to our celebration of life as we do to ourAround the world, in places like Chile and Bangladesh and Uganda, Holy struggle against sin and death. This, I believe, is the way of the Holy Cross. ItCross religious and the Christians with whom they live and work will 
is proleptic.
celebrate their heritage of faith and reflect upon the spiritual call of their tradition. Here in the United States, Holy Cross parishes and schools across Mary, as Our Lady of Sorrows, embraced botluhe joy and the pain of life.
the country will mark the days with various opportunities for praying and for Her example of faithful love and open-ended trust sets a powerful witness partying. On our own busy campuses, there is always the chance the days will before us. As we approach her feast, let us seek her patronage and model ourpass by barely noticed. 
behavior on hers. That is the invitation of our tradition and the richness that brought us this far.
To me, that would be a shame, because our heritage is rich and the call of our tradition is timely. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. I was told once that every preacher really only has one sermon inside him. Here's the one I keep speaking over and over again. 




·spanish Mass .. September 12
For seven years I studied theology at Notre Dame. After all those books and lectures and discussions, I emerged with several very good questions and one 
at the Grotto, 11:30 a.m. 
very good new word -proleptic. 
Fr. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., presider 
Proleptic is an adjective that means "already/but not yet." It refers to something that is somehow accomplished and at the same time not yet completed. In theology, it particularly refers to our salvation, accomplished 




WEEKEND PRESIDERS and guaranteed by the death and resurrection of Christ, while at the same 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
time we still await Christ's return in glory, to establish a full reign of justice 
Sat. September ll 5:00 p.m. Rev. Regis Duffy. O.F.M.
and peace. Because Christ has already come, we can experience love and 
Sun. September 12 10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy. C.S.C.
community. Because Christ has yet to return, we must work for the renewal 
11:45 a.m. Rev. John Gerber, C.S.C.
of our world, filled as it still is with sin. 
My shorthand for this slightly tricky concept is the "Holy Cross." 




First, the Cross. We are invited to view our world in a most honest way. We 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR
are called to see the pain and suffering endured by our brothers and sisters and carried within our own hearts. We are called to live as one Body, and feel 
THIS COMING SUNDAY 
the pain that any part of the body suffers. We are challenged to use our gifts in service and sacrifice, with all our passion, towards the righting of wrongs and the bringing of justice and peace. In our times we are invited to "opt for 
1ST READING Sirach 27:30., 28:7 
the poor" and to see the world from their perspective and direct our efforts 
2ND READING Romans 14: 7,9
towards their liberation and empowerment. In a world of entrenched sin, this is to embrace the Cross. In a dormitory of wiseguys, this is to befriend the 
GosPEL Matthew 18: 21.-35 
character everybody else thinks is a jerk. 
The embrace of the cross is our only Hope. 
page 8 
Service 
continued from page 1 
corporation with a board of directors will run the program. 
The legislation fulfilled Clinton's campaign promise to create a domestic version of the Peace Corps, in which young people could serve their com­munities while earning money to help pay for college. 
Clinton praised the Senate action as "yet another oppor­tunity for change for the American people." 
The bill was supported by 51 Democrats and six Hepublicans; four Democrats and 36 Hepublicans opposed it. 
Senate Republicans, who all along opposed the program as too costly and too bureaucratic, fought it to the end. 
Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, H-Kan., said the White House was sending conflicting signals by creating a new pro­gram while proposing gov­ernment reorganization with an emphasis on saving money. 
"On the one hand, President Clinton says national service will be the centerpiece of his administration and on the other hand that he wants to reinvent 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Bill Clinton 

government," Dole said in a floor speech. "Well, we think when we talk about reinventing government we're talking about less government, less new pro­grams." 
But Democrats were eager to hand Clinton his first entirely new program, and Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass, who guided the bill to passage, accused Republicans of painting an inaccurate picture of the legis­lation. 
"The fact that our colleagues misstate fact time and time again ... may be persuasive to some people, but it does not represent accuracy, veracity or truth," he said. 
He said if the program did not work, Congress could scrap it. Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R­Kan., who led opposition to the 
legislation, argued that the bill 
is "fraught with ... overlapping 
programs, unnecessary legisla­
tive requirements and cumber­
some bureaucratic structures." 
Kassebaum was involved in 
the intricate negotiations to 
reach a compromise that 
Democrats and Republicans 
could support. But the White 
House refused to accept her 
suggestion of a two-year pilot 
program and she never en­
dorsed the plan. 

Sen. Harris Wofford, D-Pa., argued that the National Service program was an "inno­vative public-private partner­ship" that is "part of a process of reinventing government, not by more government but by igniting citizen action and citi­zen responsibility." 
Congressional supporters of the legislation have argued that it would benefit communities across the nation while helping some middle-class students afford college. Opponents have said the money would be better spent on existing college aid programs like Pell grants. 
The legislation sent to Clinton would allow students who com­plete two years of community service work to earn $4,725 a year to apply toward college tuition. Clinton initially pro­posed $5,000 a year. 
Israel's domestic crisis puts the peace plan in jeopardy 
By NEIL MACFARQUHAR 
Associated Pr~ 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Wednesday that a political crisis in his coalition threatened Mideast peace negotiations as they were leading toward Israel's recog­nition of the PLO. 
Rabin spoke to reporters at a reception for foreign diplomats shortly after Interior Minister Arieh Deri -the target of cor­ruption charges -submitted a copy of a letter of resignation he intends to formally turn in to the Cabinet on Sunday. 
The crisis pushed Mideast peace talks into the back­ground as Deri's ultra-reli­gious Shas party threatened to quit Rabin's Labor-led govern­ment. That would deprive Rabin of the solid Jewish par­liamentary majority he needs to push through a contested plan for Palestinian self-rule in the occupied Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho. 
Rabin said he received Deri's letter ''with great sorrow" and there was "no doubt that this can hurt chances for peace." Deri submitted the letter after the Supreme Court recom­mended Rabin fire him over the police probe. 
Rabin bemoaned the "miser­able string of events" that led Deri's pending resignation as Israel faced "a historic oppor­tunity, because today, most Arab countries are ready for peace." 
Deri denies charges that he funnelled about $250,000 into party coffers and religious councils while serving in a for· mer Cabinet. He was expected to officially submit his resigna­tion to the Cabinet on Sunday, and it would go into effect 48 hours later, Rabin said. 
The decision on whether the six parliament members from the Shas party would leave the coalition will be made by its spiritual guide Rabbi Ovadiah Yosef. 
If Shas goes, Rabin would have to rely on votes from five Arab legislators. Rabin's Cabinet would become a mi­nority government, with only 56 solid supporters in the 120­member Parliament. 

Thursday, September 9, 1993 
US forces sent to Bosnia would be under NATO 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton said Wednesday that NATO-not the United Nations -would be in charge of any U.S. peace­keeping forces sent to Bosnia. 
Clinton stressed in a White House meeting with Alija Izetbegovic, the president of the former Yugoslav republic, that the peacekeepers would not be under U.N. command, a departure from similar deploy­ments. American troops in Macedonia, for example, serve under U.N. command. 
"In order to do it, we have to have a fair peace... that is willingly entered into by the parties. It has to be able to be enforced, or... be guaranteed by a peacekeeping force from NATO, not the United Nations but NATO," Clinton said. "And, of course, for me to do it the Congress would have to agree." 
Izetbegovic welcomed the re­newed offer to commit the first 
U.S. ground troops to the Balkans to guarantee a settle­ment of the ethnic conflict -if it can be reached. 
He said he was ready for a resumption of negotiations with Bosnian Serbs and Croats and that they could be reopened next week, in Geneva, Switzerland, or in New York. 
Izetbegovic said Clinton had assured him in their Oval Office meeting that "the United States would do their best to influence the Serbian and the Croatian side to be more fair" in negoti­ations with the Muslim-domi­nated government. 
And he said he preferred NATO forces. 
In Brussels, the United States and its NATO allies threatened to order air strikes to prevent a Serb stranglehold of the Bosnian capital of Sarajevo. 
Ambassadors of the 16 na­tions in the alliance discussed the conflict in Yugoslavia at their first meeting since a sum­mer break. 
An official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said NATO's threat is as serious as it was Aug. 9 when the allies approved a plan for air strikes against Serb forces if they re­sumed shelling Sarajevo. 
Earlier, the State Department said any shelling of Sarajevo could trigger a NATO military response. It cited U.N. reports that Serb troops had massed again on a strategic mountain­top overlooking the city. 
Izetbegovic already has their support for a larger slice of ter­ritory in any negotiated set­tlement of the 17-month war that has left an estimated 200,000 people dead or missing in the former Yugoslav re­public. 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 

The Observer/John Bingham 

Looking for something musical 
Craig Gillard, Melissa Atlenhoff, Colleen Duffy, Tasha Blasi, Kelly Daugerdas, and Kelly Burns, left to right, discuss the potential of WVFI at activites night last Tuesday. 
Gunmen open fire on line ofcommuters, killing 21 
ATTENTION: MANDATORY 
STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE 
INTERNATIONAL AND DEGREE-SEEKING 
GRADUATE STUDENTS October 15, 1993 is the deadline for WAIVING enrollment in the mandatory student health insurance plan. 
This deadine also applies for dependent enrollment. For further information contact: UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 631-7497 

ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 
Gunmen firing automatic ri­fles killed at least 21 black commuters and wounded 25 others in two separate attacks Wednesday night, police said. 
Attackers in two mini-vans pulled up alongside a line of hundreds of commuters and began firing wildly, leaving dead and wounded the length of a 70-yard parking lot. 
Three hours later and a few miles away, gunmen standing on a street corner fired on a passing taxi-van. Police gave conflicting reports on the casu­alties at each site but said at least 21 people died and 25 were wounded in both inci­dents. 
The attacks followed a land­mark agreement reached Tuesday by black and white groups that will end white-mi­nority rule. Political violence has soared as negotiations on reform proceed, and Wednesday's attack was simi­lar to several others that coin­cided with major steps forward. 
Broken glass and blood cov­ered the parking lot outside the small shopping mall in the Wadeville industrial area out­side Johannesburg. 
BRUNO'S PIZZA 
CARRY-OUT SPECIAL 
AT OUR NEW LOCATION ONLY 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS! (US ROUTE 31 N... NEXT TO BIG C LUMBER) 
18" 2 ITEM ONLY $13.00 14" 2 ITEM ONLY $8.00 
FORA LIMITED TIME [CARRY OUT ONLY] 

273-3890 
IF YOU ARE STICKING AROUND THIS WEEDEND COME CHEER THE IRISH ON TO VICTORY AT OUR RESTAURANT LOCATION... 
2610 PRAIRIE AVE. 288-3320 
.,_..------~------~--~------------·-·­



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, September 9, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

David Kinney Managing Editor Bwiness Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Hcroman Vicwpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brcndan Regan Saint Mary'• Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, letters and Inside Columns prcsenr the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNic:wpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advenising 631-6900/8840 s 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839it:.~ Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An alternative mission statement 

Dear Editor: 
In the Viewpoint of Septem­ber third Edward O'Connor suggests that "we have already given up Notre Dame's Catholic identity and have made a mis­sion statement superfluous." I, too began sharing this belief particularly when he pointed out that in the mission state­ment "there is no mention of faith in Jesus Christ, no resur­rection." 
If everything done at Notre Dame is not for the expressed purpose of glorifying Jesus Christ then something has gone seriously wrong. Of course this does not take many of us by surprise. I felt we had "already given up Notre Dame's Catholic identity" when I was a fresh­man in 1970. The Scriptures and the lives and thoughts of the best Christian saints of the last two thousand years are unfortunately not what has been guiding Notre Dame most of the last 20 to 30 years at least. 
Father O'Connor fears that the secularization of Protestant universities that occurred in the 19th century has now already occurred here at Notre Dame. 
Consider the stance or mis­sion statement of one of America's top Protestant universities when they first began. Harvard's original charter in 1636 said, "Let every student be plainly instructed & earnestly pressed to consider well, the main end of his life & studies is: to know God & Jesus Christ, which is eternal life, John 17:3. And therefore to lay Christ in the bottom as the only foundation of all sound knowl­edge & learning." 
How can I explain this apos­tasy except by the Scriptures themselves? Here are a few 
DOONESBURY 
from St. Paul: "Claiming to be ing to some evolutionary theory wise, they became fools ... and not the way God said he Has not God made foolish the created it. Evolution as it has wisdom of the world . . . In the usually been taught is now wisdom of God, the world did being exposed as a lie by the not know God through wisdom . best scientists. Yet students in . . That your faith might not secular universities are still rest in the wisdom of men but being indoctrinated into the in the power of God." I faith of evolution and its pan­
feel there has been a radical theistic philosophy. abandonment from faith in I'm afraid Notre Dame's un­God's wisdom to faith in man's written mission statement wisdom here at Notre Dame. might rather read like this, Take as an example man's faith "Let every student be plainly in evolution as the means by instructed and earnestly which the human race has pressed to consider well. the come into being. main end of his life and studies 
In 1976 I was taking a gradu­here at Notre Dame is to get ate level theology class. I asked good grades so as to get a good the professor whether St. Paul job, which to have is earthly se­believed in a literal Adam and curity. And therefore to lay Eve. She said, "Yes, but today money in the bottom as the we don't because now we know chief cornerstone for the twen­more than Paul did [i.e. evolu­tieth century educated man." tion]." I suspected she would Peter Helland say that because she believed Class of 1978 God created the world accord-South Bend 
GLND/SMC welcomes new members of community 
Dear Editor: things it is not. GLND/SMC is 
The members and leadership not a dating service. GLND/SMC of the organization Gays and will not tolerate sexual harass­Lesbians at Notre Dame and ment or sexual activity at any Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) wish of its functions or activities. to welcome all new and return­GLND/SMC operates ing students, faculty and staff autonomously from the of Holy Cross, Saint Mary's and University. We are not recog­Notre Dame to a new academic nized or endorsed in any way year. We particularly welcome by the administrations of the the lesbian, gay and bisexual University of Notre Dame or members of the community. Saint Mary's College, and 
A campus presence for over receive no University funding. twenty years, GLND/SMC is a We are supported solely by group for support, education contributions from members, and community-building for alumni and friends. GLND/SMC those concerned about and is a 501a tax-exempt organiza­interested in gay, lesbian and tion registered with the bisexual issues. Internal Revenue Service. 
We are a group for support. If Our calendar is full and var­you are or think you might be ied. We meet one Sunday each gay, we are a place where you month in general meetings. An can talk and express your feel­undergraduate-only group ings openly in the safe. under­meets each first and third standing company of other gay Sunday. We coordinate several and lesbian people. projects, including the publish­
We are a group for your edu­ing this year of a GLND/SMC cation. Many of our members Guidebook which will Jist those make class presentations, people, places and things to speak to dorm residents and which members are acquaint­write for campus media. We ed-information relevant or are committed to providing important to the bisexual, les­materials and resources for bian and gay community locally those members of the campus and world-wide. Social events community who request them. such as tailgaters, dinner par­
We are a group for communi­ties and movie nights are ty-building. Our group sponsors announced at meetings and many social events which build through a mailing. and strengthen friendships. All discussions held at Together we laugh at movie GLND/SMC , membership lists, nights, feast on gourmet meals attendance and conversations and party at pre-game tail­are not discussed beyond the gaters. Many of us lift our voic­bounds of the group. es in prayer and song at a litur­If you would like to join this gy celebrated each semester. organization or extend your 
If you are lesbian, gay, bisex­support. write to us at: P.O. Box ual, straight-but-not-narrow, or 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556. just plain interested, this group Erik Floan is for you. Notre Dame 
While there is much that Kelly A. Smith GLND/SMC is, there are some Saint Mary's College 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NO KJWIN6? YOU THINK THANKS YOUM16HT OH, FOR 
.%64Y,MA~r GO[), YOU!'!.. !1() ... HElP
I 

~...''-= TH&R&, 
J.J.~
\ 
"Life is just one damned thing after another." 
Frank Ward O'Malley 


Thursday, September 9, 1993 page 11 
Multicultural Student Atfairs: Anew name for anew year 
By KENYA JOHNSON the same kind of cultural activi­Accent Editor ties as other organizations," said Outlaw. " They wanted to 
New faces, new projects and a be more visible to the university new name -all of these have -to let people know what been prominent in the success they're about." of the former Office of Minority Along with heightening the Affairs. awareness of ethnic groups 
This summer the Office of around campus, Outlaw said Minority Affairs officially there are three major projects changed its name to that her office will complete this Multicultural Student Affairs. year. 
"Lately our office has been "Hispanic Heritage Month and reaching out to many more stu­Black History Month are a dents than just minority,"' said priority every year. Our main Iris Outlaw, director of goal is to get more people Multicultural Affairs. "A variety involved in the projects," she 
of students come in and take said. "But this year for the first advantages of our services." time we're going to have a 
Outlaw also explained that Multicultural Film Festival and some students were disturbed that's been an exciting chal­by the word "minority" which is lenge." often associated with 'less than' The "film fest" will last a total and 'inferior'. of three days and will hopefully 
The name change had been in cover three different ethnic discussion for the past two groups. Outlaw said she is years. Outlaw, and others, lokking for movies that will finally decided on Multicultural show a "different, cultural' per­Student Affairs in July. spective than most of teh mod­
"I feel that the new name de­ern day movies. scribes our efforts much bet­In terms of academics, ter," she said. Multicultural Student Affairs is 
Much like the office name, a great support system for all Outlaw is somewhat of a new students. addition to Notre Dame as well. Along with a peer tutor ser­Assuming the position of direc­vice, members of the office con­tor of Minority Affairs in the tinually encourage students 1991-92 school term, Outlaw having academic trouble to talk has been an integral part in the to their professors and fellow recent success and awareness classmates. of the office. The office also informs 
"Our office has been a lot professors of activities, semi­more visible in the last two nars and events which may be years," explained Outlaw. relevant to their courses. "Students are more aware Outlaw has efficiently execut­By KENYA JOHNSON cultures within the Hispanic about what we do and how we ed many new activities and im­Accent Editor Americans. This is a great can help." proved old ones. Still she feels opportunity for students to 
One of the major visions the office "has a way to go," she Its Hispanic Heritage Month learn more about our differ­Outlaw had when she first came said. and certain forces are making ences and similarities to one to Notre Dame was to give Eventually Outlaw plans to sure the Notre Dame communi­another and to themselves," he attention to all ethnic groups. establish a mentor program be­ty knows it. said. 
"I sensed that African­tween professor and students. "This year will be like none Montoya said there seemed to Americans were receiving most "There has never been a suc­other," said Ken Motolenich be much more interest from the of the aid out of this office. I cessful mentor program here at Salas, president of Hispanic student body. wanted every group to feel Notre Dame and it is really American Organization (HAO). 
comfortable in coming to us," something from which students "We've really put all of our "There's a lot more organiza­she said. "We provide help, can benefit," devotion and effort into making tion this year, which has helped academically and emotionally Outlaw is also looking to in­this month memorable for the in planning the variety of activi­-and we want people to know crease her staff. There are cur­entire Notre Dame community." ties," he said. But he added we're here for everyone, not rently three staff members, plus Much emphasis has been that most of the credit should just one particular group." student aides in the placed on getting non-Hispanics go to the student organizations. Outlaw said she took special Multicultural Student Affairs students involved in the activi­"We really haven't had that 
interest in enhancing the oppor­Office. ties. much help from the university, tunities and events for Lastly, for now, Outlaw wish­"This is a time to educate the except for the Multicultural Hispanics and Native es to create Alumni entire Notre Dame community Students Affairs Office," said Americans. Associations for the various eth­about our rich culture and her­Salas. 
After seeing the progress with nic groups on campus. itage," said Alex Montoya, vice­"This year we hope the these two groups, Asian­She's made many beneficial president of League Uniting university will look at what Americans came forward and changes for the students of this Latin American Citizens we're doing and realize that it asked Outlaw for assistance. university; and she only plans to (LULAC) should be a responsibility not 
"They wanted to be able to do do more. "There are so many different only of the student organiza­tions but of the university as well." 
Salas said that Hispanic Her­itage Month should eventually be a traditional part of Notre Dame. 
Events will include key note speakers Peter Bloch, presi­dent and executive director of the Association for Puerto ... Rican Hispanic Cultures Inc., Carmen Trujillo, a famous Hispanic artist, and perfor­mances by singer Carmen Lucca, guitarist Roberto Cubano and the world renowned touring group, Ballet Folklorico. 
Other activities scheduled are a "kick-off' dinner on Sept. 16 for $2.50 at the C.S.C, a comedy show at Washington Hall on Sept. 21 for $3. 
"This is really a great time for students to put down their books and experience the diver­sity which enriches this Notre Dame family we have," said Salas. 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Sore knee might have Bill's Kelly slated for surgery 
By JOHN F. BONFAITI 
AP Spans Writer 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. Jim Kelly's luck in avoiding surgery may have run out. 
Kelly, who has hurt his right knee many times during his football career, including twice last season, has yet to need an operation. 
The Buffalo Bills star, saying his knee is sore and very irritat­ed, planned to take a magnetic resonance imaging test today. 
Kelly and the Bills should know by tonight what is caus­ing the pain and whether arthroscopic surgery will be needed to correct it. 
If it is, Kelly said Wednesday he wants the procedure imme­diately, which would keep him out of Sunday's Super Bowl rematch with the Dallas Cowboys, plus two more weeks. 
"Knock on wood, I've been very fortunate and I haven't had to have it operated on, but maybe this is the time when they're saying, 'Hey, get it cleaned out and it will make you feel better,"' Kelly said after missing Wednesday's practice. "If I had to play today, I couldn't because it's very painful." 

Coach Marv Levy said the Bills will wait until the test results are in before making any decisions about Kelly. 
"And we'll wait to see how Jim is feeling," Levy said. "If he's not feeling any better than he is right now, then he wouldn't play." 
Kelly sprained his right knee twice last year, the second time during Buffalo's 52-17 loss to the Cowboys in the Super Bowl. 
It was determined after the second injury that no surgery was needed, and Kelly under­went an arduous rehabilitation program. In fact, Kelly specu­lated that the large amount of running he's been doing may have caused the current dis­comfort. 
"It's just something that's been happening for the last 2-3 weeks," he said. "I've been doing a lot of running on it and it just feels like it's very painful." 
Kelly said a hit the knee absorbed in Buffalo's 38-14 season-opening victory against New England may have exacer­bated the injury. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 30911aggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
Newspaper carriers and branch BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641  NEED FSU & USC Gas or my  SWM, 19, despratley seeks 2 GA's  
NOTICES  managers needed for Notre Dame 219-291-7153 and St. Mary's campus. Call imme­ KEVIN  parents will DISOWN me please help Kyle 288-5282  for the B.C. game. If you can help, please call Ken at x4245.  
diately for available positions: 232·  
Experience the ultimate of all  3205. Furnished house, Roseland, 3-4  I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653  4 SALE MSU STUDENTS  Need MSU GA's  
sports· SKYDIVING I Train with  Bedroom. Good neighborhood  232-3736  x4519  
Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and  Babysitter with experience, trans­277-3097  
receive 1 0% off our 1st Jump  portation and references needed  Sid Booklet 4 sale @277-9074  
Course. with student 10. West  part-time days and evening in NO  Need Pitt GA's-call ext 3756, katie  Sell 2 booklets; 2 GAs:Pits,USCs.  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­ professor home. Please call 232­BED AND BREAKFAST in private  272-7034  Need 2 Ga's for Pitt game. Please  
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ 2201. home. 2 twins, single w/ separate  Will give first-born son for four USC  Call Will x3080  
ated. One hour North of South  bath-1 0 min from campus.  tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob  Need MSU GA or Stud will trade  
Bend. (616)628-4892  TRAVEL FREEl CANCUN, Reasonable 234-2626  at 273-0620.  Pitt or USC or Cash CALL x1744  
JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADRE!  NEEDED: 3 MSU GA's  
Typing  SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK  Desperately seeking tickets for  Call Brian at 634-3314  
287-4082  PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call  $ Feverish Alumni in need of 4GAs  
SIONS/SERVICEI SUN SPLASH OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR·  Rich 277-4769  for USC. Call Tommaso X1480 $  2 Mich GAs b/o Marty 4-1521  
bed & breakfast in home of  TOURS 1-800-426-7710 DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT.  
st. marys student's parent's  $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA.  WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM  I NEED 2 PITI GA'S. PLEASE  
close to stadium call 258 7935  IF YOU WANT PAPA JOHN'S JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444.  NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX  CALL MIKE AT 634-1862.  2 MICH TIX FOR SALE X3232  
PIZZA @ 50% OFF AND YOU'RE  (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN  
LOOKING FOR A PART TIME HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  708-843-6947.  HELP!! NEED USC AND FSU  Need Michigan State GA's  
GERTH seeks BASS PLAYER and  JOB... NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  TIX. CALL KEV. X1689  will buy or trade for Pitt Ga's  
VOCALIST to complete campus  PAPA JOHN'S is now hiring inside 271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  x3884 -Kara  
band. HAVE GIGS all we need is  personnel and delivery drivers. MACHINE.  272-7233.  NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA OR STUD  
you. Call DAVE 1081 ILOST & FOUND I  FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES. 15-20 hr/wk and 20-fulltime hr/wk posi­FOR SALEtions available. Set schedules also available. 5-7 inside positions and  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 277-1659.  TX! PLEASE CALL BETH AT X2495. WANTED-tickets for NO­ 
10-15 driver positions available. COLOR TV RENTALS: 19", two  SELLING BOOKLETS AND  MICHIGAN (sept. 11,away)  
Lost: Student Football tix  Stop in PAPA JOHN'S @ 54533 semesters, $99.95 delivered. 13",  BOSTON COLL GA'S. LUIS 273­ call Chris at232-7315 $  
Row 43, Sec 30  Terrace Lane or call271-1177. two semesters, $69.95 delivered.  1528  
x1723  EOE. Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959.  Have 2 Pitt GA's. Will trade for BC  
Need 1 MSU stud or GA  want to buy std. ticket booklets. call  or FSU. Alan x1933  
Lost -NO class of '45 ring. Initials  Need volunteers NO and SMC girls VCR RENTALS: Rent a VCR, two  call Kavita x4520  233-5130. ask for mike.  
T.P.B. inside. Blue stone. Reward.  to coach and referee for Sat. morn­semesters $99.95 delivered.  please!$!$!$  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
Call Dr. Bergin@ 631-6214.  ing flag football program for kids Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959  Need student tickets and FSU GA's,  Wanted: 1 Pitt GA  
ages 7 -13 starting Sept. 11. Call  please call4-3281.  I NEED MICHIGAN TIX. KELLY  call x-3265  
LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM  Paul Roy 232-2794. SEC. 28 STUD. TIX b/o x3027  X4270  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
FROM A NECKLACE-VERY  $$ HELP I NEED 2 MSU GA'S $$  
IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF  NEEDED 3 PITI TIX  PARENTS PAYING BIG MONEY  NEED 2 OR 3 MSU TICKETS.  
FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4m.  X2558 TARA  NATALIE 273-0520  WILL BUY OR WILL TRADE 2 PITI  Alumni needs 2 GA tix 4 Mich St.  
SOFA FOR SALE  TICKETS. (412)741-4059.  Pitt. & Fla St. Will pay top$$. Call  
Lost: Silver colored Seiko man's  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT· Sleeper sofa in GREAT cond.  Susan at X1285.  
watch at NW f-ball game. Engraved  Make money teaching basic conver­Dan 232-7242  BADLY NEED BYU GA'S AND 1  For Sale: 2 stu. ftball booklets. Call  
on back: Love, Helen 2-23-88.  sational English abroad. Japan,  MSU GA. ASK FOR JOHN X4618.  Ann@ 4-2689  NEEDED: 2 Pitt G.A.'s  
Great Sent. value. Call John collect  Taiwan. and S.Korea. Make up to  Call ELISSA x4982  
@ 312-587-1768  $2000-$4000+ per month. Many brother word proc. for sale  NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN  $$ I NEED 2 USC Ga's will pay  
provide room & board + other bene­225 o.b.o. call chris X3040  STATE GA'S CALL SCOTI X4074  good money. call Eric x1777 $$  $$$$$$$$$PLEASE HELP$$$$$$  
LOST: silver cross on leather  fits. No previous training or teaching  DESPERATELY NEED ONE STU­ 
choker, great sentimental value,  certificate required. For more infor­ Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU  I HAVE 1 MSU STUD TIX 4 SALE  DENT OR GA FOR MICH. STATE.  
lllound please call x4906  mation call: (206)832-1146 ext.  tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill  CHRIS 271· 7807  PLEASE CALL KATE  
J5584  (616) 329-2908 Kalamazoo  4-1514.  
WANTED  Senior Ticket Book for sale. Call 232-2283 or 273-1035, leave name, BRUNO'S PIZZA needs PT ph#, & offer.  NEED 2 MSU, USC, Or FSU TIX x3402  NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL HOME NO GAMES  PERSONAL  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  Hostesses and Drivers (for Campus  CALL AARON X1868  
Experienced Student Painters need­ Deliveries) Call John at 288-3320. PacBell 640K RAM w/ color  I have 2 Boston College tickets  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
ed to paint South Bend area homes.  mon.IBM compel.. .internal modem  (Nov. 20) which I will trade for 2  
Full or Part Time.  SPRING BREAK '94· SELL TRIPS, 3.2 DOS call 282-1190  Florida State tickets. Please call  Need 4 MSU GAs. Have 4 BC GAs  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  EARN CASH & GO FREEl II  Nick at 312-222-6464  to trade/sell. Lisa 273-6032  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
1-80D-626-6287.  Student Travel Services is now hir­WORD PROCESSOR PANASONIC  233-4767  
"painting America's homes coast to  ing campus reps. Call @800-648· W-1510, $250 EXCELLENT CON­ WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  
coasr  4849. DITION  272-7233.  Profanely Wealthy Notre Dame  Huntington Graphics presents AN  
289-2537  Fanatic Needs 2 Pill GAs.  EXHIBITION & SALE OF FINE ART  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  Need 2 GAs for Pitt.  Call Pat at x1550  PRINTS-The sale Includes 100's  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  Calling all WOMEN (students, facul­FOR SALE: 19"TV, 13" TV $100ea.  Please call Mike at x41862.  of different art prints by DALI,  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  ty, staff) I Do you have something to o.b.o.; cube fridge $75 o.b.o. All in  MATISSE, MONET, PICASSO,  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS &  say? Do you express yourself great cond. 232-7674  FOR SALE: 2 STUD. BOOKLETS  RENOIR, VAN GOGH & many oth­ 
PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  through poetry, music, testimony, or  NEED GA'S FOR MSU, USC, FSU,  ers; rock posters; movie stars; M.C.  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY11·BOO·  duck calling? You are needed for ALARM SYSTEMS; CAR, HOME  AND BC. JAY x1534  I need 2 MSU tixl Lisa x 2569  McEscher prints; black & white pho­ 
878-83861  an NO Women Speak Out night on AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR  tography + scenic & wildlife photos.  
Monday, September 20. Please call INFORMATION CALL JASON @  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PliTt!! CALL  TODAY, 9 AM·5PM  
$$$$  Katie at 634-2728 or Linda at 232­237-9702.  KELLY x4270  For sale/trade  NOTRE DAME ROOM  
Looking for a 1993 NO football sea­ 2739 to sign up. Don't worry, there  1 MSU stud. tic  2nd floor, Lafortune.  
son ticket bookletllll  are no auditions! DORM REFRIG. 259-3023  Need tix. for any  
thanksll call 284-5115  I Need 6 to 8 Pitt GA's -ext. 1620  other games  MOST PRINTS: $7 each · 3 prints  
$$$$  PANASONIC KX-P1123 PRINTER.  ask for Jon  Tom J. x40559  for only $171  
1 or 2 roomates for furnished home. High quality print -like new, $125.  
Nice, clean ...259-0219 Call Tom (evenings) 277-2676.  WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP  IIMMMMTHINK FASTIIVVVV\MMJ\  
I  •  LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE & HONEST YOUNG LADY TO WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE. HOURS FLEXIBLE. PREFERABLY  I TICKETS FOR RENT I I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  TICKET TO SAN FRAN. (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA TIXJIJ MIKE at X1573  Tickets wanted-4-USC or Pitt game. Call M. McCarthy 215-471-6241 FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUD. BOOKLETS. CALL LAURA AT  II seems like a lot, but your small sacrifice could help feed the world. Consider skipping lunch at the din­ing hall on wednesdays -the  
DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN  "'--------~-...J TIXS.272-6306  Need two ocr three MSU GA's and  2778598.  rewards are remarkable.  
NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL  8 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS,  two Pill GA's. Ask for Bill. 234·8293.  WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST  
273-4888 FOR MORE INFORMA·  WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO.  begins September 22. Look for  
TION.IMMEDIATE START.  PER PERSON. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Trade 2 or 3 Mich State GA's for 2  FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET  sign-ups in the dining halls next  
2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. NEED 2 FSU TICKETS  or 3 Pill GA's. Bob 277-2510  FOR BC AND FSU. CALL LAURIE  week.  
7-Eieven Comer of Ironwood &  1 BEDROOM, $225 MO. (904) 398-6146  AT 3397.  Thanks,  
Edison now taking applications for  ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Need 1 Pitt GA. Call x2969 Lisa  World Hunger Coalition  
full time and part-time work. All  PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE.  I NEED 3 MSU GA'S. CALL DES I  
shifts available, please apply at the  272·8306. ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  Need Mich. St. & USC  X1786. WILL TAKE A PAIR AND A  Love, Peace, and Tacos  
store  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  G.A.s call Mike x0600  SINGLE  11 a.m. IillO p.m. M-Sa  
WEEKENDS • RIVERFRONT NEW JANE AT 1-800·264-3278.  CACTUS JACK'S  
Babysitter Needed: Various week­ HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101.  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  Stud Tixbook 4 sale,call Tom@254­ 1827 South Bend Ave.  
days call if interested: 255-9094  Helpl Need 2 Ga's for PITI, BC, or  TICKETS BOOKLET  9068 or lv Msg.  
2 ROOMS FOR RENT ON FOOT­USC. call x4-3650  271-1998  
BALL WKNDS. 2 MI. FROM NO.  My parents are coming out for the  Oh, don't worry, I've got the  
Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger,  NIGEL Y DECOR. PREFER AGE NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR  FSU game and they need GA's I will  bananas!  
IN, hiring for: servers, bartenders,  OVER 30. $100/NIGHT/ROOM. EITHER 10123 USC 11/13 FSU OR  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  trade parent's weekend GA's and  
line cook. Exp. pref. but not nee. for  277·8340. 11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT  TICKET BOOKLET.  cash. I really need these! call Mike  
info call272-7017  1 BOO 543 0357  232 4827  at2061.  Dont't Schwartz a Zoom, Ritchie!  

Thursday, September 9, 1993 The Observer • BASEBALL page 13 
Low profile Kile ofthe Astros no-hits the NY Mets 
HOUSTON 

Darryl Kile, a low-budget starter on a multimillion-dollar staff, pitched baseball's second no-hitter in five days, leading the Houston Astros over the New York Mets 7-1 Wednesday night. 
Third baseman Ken Caminiti and shortstop Andujar Cedeno contributed excellent plays in the seventh inning as Kile threw Houston's first no-hitter since Mike Scott clinched the NL West championship with a 2-0 victory over San Francisco on Sept. 25, 1986. 
Kile (15-6) struck out nine and walked one. His gem came after Jim Abbott pitched a no-hitter for the New York Yankees against Cleveland on Saturday. 
Kile, a 30th-round draft pick by Houston in 1987, pitched the Astros' ninth no-hitter, and the sixth against the Mets. 
Kile, who split time between the majors and minors last year, began this season as Houston's fifth starter and made six appearances out of the bullpen early this year. 
Kile retired the first 10 bat­ters he faced before walking Jeff McKnight with one out in the fourth. McKnight wound up scoring with two outs on a bizarre play. 
Kile's pitch appeared to hit Joe Orsulak on the foot, and the ball bounced away from the catcher. Scott Servais appar­ently thought the ball hit Orsulak and· did not attempt to retrieve it, and McKnight ran to third. First baseman Jeff Bagwell recovered the ball and threw wildly to third, allowing McKnight to score. 
Expos 6, Rockies 1 

MONTREAL-Rookie Kirk Rueter remained unbeaten by allowing one run in 6 2-3 in­nings and the Expos won for the 12th time in their last 13 
games. 

The Expos swept the Rockies for the second time in two weeks and moved within 6 1/2 games of the NL West-leading 



Oakland's Ricky Henderson stole two bases to contribute to the A's 4-2 win last night. 
Michigan Road Trip 
Catch the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan September 11th 
Round trip bus transportation to Michigan Stadium (bus leaves at 6 a.m. from CCE) Donuts and juice provided 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 7 
Phillies. 
Rueter (7-0) has won his last five starts and had a string of 14 consecutive scoreless in­nings end on Roberto Mejia's RBI double in the seventh. 
Cubs 8, Phillies 5 
PHILADELPHIA-Kevin Roberson's pinch-hit triple with the bases-loaded capped a seven-run rally with two outs in the eighth inning as Chicago won a season-high sixth con­secutive game. 
With a 5-l lead, Tommy Greene had held the Cubs with four hits and one run in 7 2-3 innings. Nine batters later, Philadelphia trailed 8-5. 
David West (6-4), who walked the one batter he faced, took the loss with Greg Hibbard (12­
11) earning the victory. 
Reds 6, Cardinals 2 

CINCINNATI-Mark Whiten turned into a singles hitter one night after his four-homer, 12­RBI game, but Joe Oliver hit two homers and drove in four runs to lead Cincinnati. 
Whiten, who tied the major­league record for homers and RBis in the second game of a doubleheader Tuesday night, singled in the second inning ofT Bobby Ayala (6-7), ending his streak of three consecutive homers, then struck out, grounded out and singled again. 
Orioles, Xs, ChiSox Win 
BALTIMORE 
Chris Hoiles homered and drove in the go-ahead runs with a bases-loaded single in the eighth inning Wednesday night, leading the surging Baltimore Orioles past the Seattle Mariners 6-3. 
Hoiles had three RBis for the Orioles, who have won nine of 10 and started the day two games behind AL East-leading Toronto. 
Mike Devereaux opened the eighth with a walk off Kenny King (0-1). After a sacrifice, Cal Ripken was walked intention­ally. Gene Nelson came in and walked pinch-hitter Tim Hulett before Hoiles grounded a two­run single inside the third-base line. 
Reliever Jim Poole (2-1) got a double-play grounder to end the top of the eighth. 
Athletics 2, Blue Jays 1 
TORONTO-Toronto blew a late-inning lead to Oakland for the second consecutive day on Brent Gates' two-out, two-run single in the ninth against ace reliever Duane Ward. The Blue Jays started the day one-half game in front of New York. 
Toronto had a 6-1 lead over Oakland on Tuesday night and lost 11-7 in 11 innings. 
Ward (2-3), who had bailed starter Juan Guzman out of a tight spot in the eighth, gave up a one-out single to Dave Henderson in the ninth. He walked Troy Neel and Mike Aldrete to load the bases and Gates then singled past the pitcher. Shortstop Tony Fernandez dived to stop the ball but by the time he got up two runs had scored. 
Bobby Witt (9-13) allowed four hits over eight innings. 
White Sox 8, Red Sox 1 

CHICAGO-Jason Bere tied the Chicago rookie record with 13 strikeouts, and gave up only two hits in eight shutout in­nings. 
George Bell and Lance Johnson each drove in two runs for the AL West-leading White Sox. 
Bere (8-5) matched the team's rookie mark for strike­outs set by Frank Lange in 1910 against New York. The White Sox record is 16 strike­outs by Jack Harshman against the Red Sox in 1954. 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 
Baptism Confirmation Full Communion 
in the Catholic Church 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
§~&w~~~WT~~~mn~ NClDD;INJ liDm!li]}<PJ Illi.ClDClDmiD~ 11mlFC1Drr~\!lll.ID® 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confirmation For Catholics interested in receiving the Sacrament of Confinnation 
Questions? call or visit Kate Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 631-5242 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Sanchez Vicario gets free pass 
By STEVE WILSTEIN AP Tennis Writer 
NEW YORK 
They waited 8 1/2 hours and played 8 minutes, the per­fect match in another U.S. Open fiasco. 
In a tournament plagued by sickness, injuries, rain and freaky upsets, nothing could have been more fitting than Natalia Zvereva's default Wednesday night after losing three games to Arantxa Sanchez Vicario. 
This is a U.S. Open ruled by Murphy's Law, where anything that can go wrong, will go wrong. So it hardly was surpris­ing when Zvereva turned to the umpire and said, in effect, "No mas," giving Sanchez Vicario a free pass into the semifinals. 
Helena Sukova, who knocked Martina Navratilova out in the fourth round, will play Sanchez Vicario after beat­ing Katerina Maleeva 6-4, 6-7 (7-3), 6-3 in a match that ended nearly 11 hours after its sched­uJed start. 
Persistent drizzle wiped out the day session, pushing the women's quarters to the evening, and driving everyone a little stir crazy. 
"I just wait here in the lock­er room and listen to music," said Sanchez Vicario, who arrived at 10:30 a.m. to prac­tice for her scheduled 11 a.m. match. "I listened to three tapes. I read eight magazines, two books. I could not read anymore. My eyes were tired and my hearing was going, so 
much music." And what did she read? A novel with the appropriate title of "The Other Side of Midnight." Zvereva, meanwhile, was feeling sick. Two nights earlier she came down with congestion and a fever, she said, and a doctor prescribed "a whole lot of pills -antibiotics and some other stuff." She spent the whole day hoping the rain would continue until Friday. "My whole body aches," she said. "It is very weak and I am so hot and congested. I was praying, praying for it to be raining at 7:30, which didn't 
don't think I was able to give her a good fight, as I always try to do. I did not 'tank.' I mean, I had to go out and try." 

Zvereva, who won the three previous Grand Slam doubles titles this year with Gigi Fernandez, had said earlier in the tournament that she didn't have the drive or desire to be a great singles player. But she denied that she gave up too easily against Sanchez Vicario or that she was saving herself for the doubles 
"If I feel like I'm dying on the court, I am going to default," she said. "It would be a bit different in doubles because I am not playing for myself, I playing for a doubles team." 
Sanchez Vicario didn't know what was wrong with Zvereva when she quit. Told that it was the flu, Sanchez Vicario responded: "I hope she doesn't give it to me." 
That's sort of the theme of this Open, where problems of all sorts are contagious. 
Bumpy Frazer, the belea­guered chairman of the U.S. Open committee, fielded ques­tions during the rain about the food, the schedule and the courts that have received so many complaints from the play­ers. 
On the food, specifically the spaghetti, which Andrei Medvedev likened to poison, Frazer said: 
"I have eaten four lunches in the player lounge, and I have, in fact eaten the pasta. I had eaten the pasta once before. After I saw the Medvedev article, I went over the next day and had a plate of pasta. Now, I am no pasta expert, but it tasted pretty good tome." 
On the schedule, Frazer defended the "Super Saturday" idea of putting the men's semi­fmals and women's final all on the same day, though he admit­ted having some second thoughts about spreading out the first round over three days. Boris Becker complained loud­est about that after his first match was scheduled for the third day, and rain delayed its finish until the fourth night. A few matches later, Becker was gone and the Open had lost another star attraction. 
"We had bad luck that it just happened that the very last scheduled match of the first round got rained out," Frazer said. "You know, you have to have some luck to win a tennis tournament, and you also have to have some luck to run a ten­nis tournament. Today we haven't had very much luck. But the fact is, I regret that. I know it was inconvenient to Boris, and I wish it hadn't hap­pened." 
Frazer said the tournament would review its scheduling policy, but he refuted Jim 
Sampras eliminates Chang in #!classic Open confrontation 
By STEVE WILSTEIN AP Tennis Writer 
NEW YORK 

For two glorious sets, Pete Sampras and Michael Chang put ona show that deserved to be iri"'the final of the U.S. Open. 
They played with power and touch, speed and artistry, Saropras slugging shots as hard a~ he·could, Chang run­ntiig tliem down and driving them backjust as hatd. 
%' Then as the third set began 
·and the hour grew late Wednesday night, Sampras simply wore Chang down game by game with 125 mph aces and baseline~kissing groundstrokes to march into the semumals with a 6-7 (7-0). 7-6 (772}, 6-1, 6-1 victory. 
<~{ =:=' ·;U&JSlP~~·· ·:··=·=·!~b 
· "'''Kit was the first time SamprasJ>eat his boyhood chum on a''hard court in their professional careers. And it made Sampras, the world's No!" 2 player, the obvious favoritf) to win this champi­onship and take the title he first captured in 1990 when he was just 19. 
The only other top-1 0 play­er in the tournament is No. 8 Andrei Medvedev, who could meet Sampras in the final. But judging by the way Sampras played against Chang, serving 13 aces and smacking 70 win­ners, nobody is likely to beat him. 
''At the start, he was taking it to me, and that's not my style," Sampras said. ''I'm not used to being on the defen­sive. Then I got in a good rhythm and Michael started missing some shots. 
"I think I was a little uncer­tain at the start. I wasn't sure I should come in or what." 
Chang knew he bad to come out aggressively to have a chance. 
"I had to make something happen," he said. "In the last two sets, I think I ran out of gas a little bit. I made a lot of errors from the backcourt. My goal was to put Pete on the defensive, to put him in a posi­tion where he's doing what he's not used to doing." 
Only a few points made the difference in the second set. 
"But even up two sets to love," he said, "J still think I would have lost the match the 
way Pete was playing." 

Courier's complaint about pot-...:.----------------------.,
holes on the practice courts. 
"I will tell you flat out," Frazer said. "There are no pot­holes on our tennis courts." 
No potholes, perhaps, but plenty of puddles. 
-----------------------., 

C\ood to be back at school! 

love1 

Dad1 Mom1 Mal"k &Tab 
Start your year oft with a goodj laugh: 
/ Just For Fwt 

~Y Crack-Ups ~ Co1nedy Cafe 
Featuring: 
Pat Francis 
Opening for Headliner 
BOB RUMBA 
Friday Sept 10 9:00-11:00 p.m. In the Dining Hall Cost: $2.00 per person 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
8 0 A-R-0 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

happen, unfortunately. I ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~============================================~
thought that if I would come out f 
tomorrow I have a better chance. But it didn't rain, so I guess I had to just go out and try. But after three games I 

.. 
1:45 ~~ ':1~~ 900 12:45 3:~:~~30 10:00 
-uiThlnga 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:45 SeeN! Gordon 12:30 2:30 4:45 8:45 8:45 
S~inSoeltlo 
12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 San Inlow 1:00 3:00 5:00 7:00 9:15 

Student Government needs you to 
help  make The Guide,  a  student  
course evaluation book,  a  reality.  
Join The Guide committee.  It's a great  

way to get involved. 
There will be a meeting on Monday, Sept. 13th at 7:00pm in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor ofLaFortune. 
Thursday, September 9, 1993 
The Observer • BASEBALL page 15 
More major league owners agree to division realignment 
to maintain a balanced sched­ule, in which teams play about the same number of games against each other. 
AL West teams don't want to lose games against East Coast clubs that are big draws. The NL would keep a balanced schedule in 1994, but it's unclear what would happen in future seasons. 
John Harrington of the Red Sox, chairman of the schedule­format committee, said owners could still vote to stick with two divisions in each league. 
"That's the fallback position for teams to go back to the players' association and ask them to reconsider," he said. 
If the players still said no, Harrington said "then we're at a stalemate. Then we'll have to take it up for 1995 or 1996." 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Baseball's proposed switch to a three-division format won American League support Wednesday after Cleveland and Detroit agreed to shift divisions, but the National League's posi­tion remained unclear. 
AL president Bobby Brown said Cleveland agreed to play in the AL Central instead of remaining in the East, and Detroit would stay in the East instead of moving to the Central. 
NL president Bill White said various alignments still were under discussion in his league, and others said the talks involved Atlanta and Pittsburgh, which both prefer the East. 
While each league requires 10 of 14 votes to make any changes, NL teams switching divisions have veto power over moves. The Chicago Cubs, who blocked realignment last year, apparently are willing to go along with this plan. 
"Those teams that would be in the Central have to vote to be in the Central," White said. 
Owners voted in June to expand the playoffs from four teams to eight next season, but the players' union said last month it wouldn't give its ap­proval without a switch to three-division formats. 
Because the current plan would move Atlanta from the West to the Central, the Braves can block a move. Pittsburgh would be in the same position if an attempt is made to move it from the East to the Central. 
After Cleveland and Detroit agreed to switch, Brown said 12 AL teams indicated they favored the three-division plan as long as a balanced schedule is kept through at least 1997. Brown said the Texas Rangers and Chicago White Sox opposed the plan. 
Owners will attempt a for­mal vote at Thursday's joint meeting of the two leagues, but probably won't be able to take one because they didn't give clubs the required 20 days no­tice and need unanimnity waive it. 
Texas general partner George 
W. Bush, who objects to expanded playoffs, said he will vote no but expected a three-di­vision proposal to eventually pass. 
"This is an exercise in folly. but I will go down defending principle and hope history judges me correct," Bush said. "I represent the silent voices of baseball's purists." 
Brown also said he was opposed, but he doesn't have a 
be a volunteer sponsor 
for Notre Dame students who are candidates for 
lE3!IDj]Dttn~m:n:tp Wmllll cc<IDm:n:tmnlUil1IDn<rDIIDp <IDll" cc<IDIIDiffill"'li]liiDtell<IDllil in the Cetholic Church 
!n.formation.al meeting ... n.o obligation.! 
MOI\TDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 Foster Room, 3rdfloor LaFortune 
6:30p.m. Sponsors for persons preparing for baptism or full communion (RCIA) 
7:30p.m. Span sors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation 
QUESTIONS? 
call or visit Kate Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 631-5242 

Opens 9:00pm. 
Volleyball Tournament Tonight! 
• 
3 person teams 

•winners 
get $20 each and a free t-shirt 


The Total Dining Experience 
Pasta . Mexican . Steaks . Seafood The Works Bar and Grill located in the Historic Works Hotel 

Use Your Student Savings Card for 10% off any menu item! Entrees start at $3.95! 
501 North Niles Avenue, South Bend • 237-9757 
Come play or watch your friends! 
*************************************************** 
Tomorrow: Friday Lunch begins 12:00-2:00pm. 
Grab food before you head to Michigan! 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
No resume or personal statement needed. Call Cheryl Moser at 631-7471. 
vote. ''I'm a dinosaur," he said. "I don't like any of it." 
The proposal, after Wednesday's change, calls for the follo~ng alignment: 
AL East-Baltimore, Boston, Detroit, New York Yankees, Toronto. 
AL Central-Chicago White Sox, Cleveland, Kansas City, Milwaukee, Minnesota. 
AL West-California, Oakland, Seattle, Texas. 
NL East-Florida, Montreal, New York Mets, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh. 
NL Central-Atlanta, Chicago Cubs, Cincinnati, Houston, St. 
Louis.  
NL  West-C olorado,  Los  
Angeles,  San  Diego,  San  
Francisco.  

Brown said the AL wanted 
Frosh 
continued from page 20 
all the freshmen, running out of the tunnel, hitting the sign and seeing the crowd go nuts," said the freshman fullback from Norwood, Ohio. 
Although Doughty didn't get a chance to play in the game, others including Randy Kinder and Edwards were called upon to contribute on the field. Kinder carried the ball four times gaining a total of 26 yards including a 21-yard effort while Edwards added four yards on the first carry of his 
Ad 
continued from page 20 
Irish career. 
Before the game, Edwards was considering the possibility of getting some playing time. 
"I was pretty nervous when I got in there for the first time with 50,000-plus watching. If you mess up, a lot of people are going to see it," said Edwards who sounds pretty calm when talking about his reaction to having his play called in the huddle for the first time. "I thought about what I had to do and that I had to do it right." 
Now that the first game along with its anticipation and its jit­ters is out of the way, the fresh­men can get down to just play­ing football. 
situation at Saint Mary's. 
Travis was also attracted to the school because of its promi­nence as a all-women's school. 

page 16 

The Starters 
Janelle Karlan-5'9" senior setter, co-captain 
Career highlights -leads Irish with over 4, career assists; four year starter; career .219 percentage 
Coach Brown's outlook -"Janelle's set for since freshman year, so she's gotten valu experience having been on the court that She makes extremely good decisions on vvu'"Lll'"• to set, tip, or hit the second ball, and she's a good blocker." 
Career highlights -best blocker on the squad, had blocks against LaSalle last year Brown's outlook -"I've been very pleased the improvement Julie's shown, especially in r match against Louisville this year. She should to be a force at the net this season." 
The Observer/Jake Peters The starters have the Irish volleyball team of1 to a quick start this year . 
• (Offer expires only when you do.) Get an AT&T Universal MasterCard and you'll be eternally grateful. Because it's more than just a credit card that's free of annual fees forever. It's also an AT&T Calling Card that currently gives you a 10% discount on already competitive AT&T Calling Card rates. It's all part of The i Plan~'M • To apply, come by our booth on campus or call -­-===THE1:LAN~ 1800 438-8627. -ATB.T  •  


Thursday, September 9, 1993 The Observer· ND VOLLEYBALL page 17 
---------------------------~---------~ 
Debbie Brown takes personable approach to coaching 
~ ~ 
. .# 
The Observer/Jake Peters Head volleyball coach Deb Brown maintains a solid relationship with her players on and off the court. 
F 

~ SATURDAY LjSEPTEMBER 11, 1993 
10:30 AM ST. JOE BEACH 1/2 MILE SWIM 2 MILE RUN THREE DIVISIONS: W!Alru®QlJV 
[N]@ 00 ~ W/A~ ®J~W lf~/A~ 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO 
310 Maynard Ann Arbor, Ml (313) 995-0581 (formerly Dooley's) 



Ann Arbor's #1 Sports Bar 
&tiln®~2n ®1®®~& OO~Il CfJrP~~ 
{llj[ii]@)@ ~@[fi]fl@f1fl /lo~OiJuU1lfrPU'ugcg ®uw&®W®~ 
2 Ten Foot Big Screens 29 Televisions • 3 Satellites Pool Tables • Dart Boards • Video Games • Air Hockey 
By DAN PIER 
Spores Writer 
Coaching can be stressful. Nobody knows that better than Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown. When she forgets about the stress she's under during a match, Brown often gets a little reminder from within. "OJ," Brown's unborn baby and the newest member of the Notre Dame vol­leyball family, jogs her memo­ry. 
Take last weekend's match against Kentucky in the Big Four Classic. With a boisterous home crowd cheering for the Wildcats in a tense moment, Brown was forced to shout at the top of her lungs to her play­ers. 
"Man, did OJ kick me when I did that!" Brown said of the young one, who is temporarily named Debbie/Dennis Junior after the coach and her hus­band of 12 years. 
Head manager Amy Schenkel believes OJ may be saying something. 
"I was kidding her about a show I saw on TV," said Schenkel. "They said mothers under a lot of stress during pregnancy tend to have cranky babies." 
Perhaps. But if happiness is also hereditary, OJ has nothing to worry about. The baby's mother is all smiles these days. In the three years since the Browns moved from San Diego to South Bend, Debbie to coach the Fighting Irish and Dennis to work in the Notre Dame public relations department, both have thoroughly enjoyed them­selves. 
"We think it's a great place and a great University, and it's fun to work for an employer that you have such a high regard for," said Brown. 
Judging by Brown's perfor­mance, that regard is mutual. In 1991, her first season, Notre Dame rebounded from a 9-27 season to post a 26-10 record and a second place finish in the National Invitational Volleyball Championships. Last year, Brown led Notre Dame to a 30­8 mark and the school's second NCAA tournament berth. 
Brown feels experience has 
been her greatest asset in 
building the program. 
"I have been a player and a 
coach at all the different lev­
els," said Brown, who played on junior national, collegiate, and national teams, head coached at Arizona State, and assisted in coaching the US national team before taking the helm at Notre Dame. "I can relate to what the players are going through. I know how tough it is sometimes. It helps my relationship with them." 
That relationship is every bit as important as the experience and knowledge the coach brings to the court. Brown says she tries to stay flexible so her players can develop on their own. According to junior out­side hitter Christy Peters, that strategy is working. 
"Debbie is pretty laid back; she doesn't get on people much," Peters said. "She only gives us feedback when we ask for it. It works out really well." 
Really well, indeed. Brown al­lowed 1992 standout Jessica Fiebelkorn to develop into the Midwest Collegiate Conference Player of the Year and a GTE Academic All-America second team honoree. Peters and se­nior setter Janelle Karlan are All-America candidates this year. 
The Irish are certainly devel­oping on the court, but Brown is concerned with more than that. She hopes her players will remember her influence in their lives long after they have left athletics. 
"I hope they remember me as a coach who cared about them as a person and not just as a volleyball player," Brown said. 
Karlan, who will graduate this spring after playing three of her four outstanding years under Brown's tutelage, thinks she will. 
"(Brown] is very personable," said Karlan. "She's easy to talk to. She's not just a coach, she's also a friend. She really cares about our personal lives, which is good. It's nice to know you have an authority figure you can look up to and trust." 
According to Dennis Brown, the special relationship with her players is not just a bonus added to Debbie's expertise as a coach. He feels her concern for them is a key ingredient in her success. 
"Debbie coaches with love as 
being central to her relation­
ship with the players. That 
doesn't mean she's a pushover. 
She wants them to be better 
people and better players." said 
Dennis Brown, who met Debbie 
while reporting on the US 
national team she was playing 
for. 
It seems that Debbie Brown 
will be making that effort for 
Notre Dame volleyball players 
for some time. 

•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•lntemational 
student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued on-the-spot 

•lntemationaiiD 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. D<:>arbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 

311-951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine! 
• 
---------~­


:. 
page 18 The Observer· NO VOLLEYBALL Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Vball 
continued from page 20 
against the powerful programs, 
it bolsters our confidence," said 
Brown. 
With such a difficult sched­
ule, one would expect the Irish 
to breath easier when antici­
pating their MCC foes, but 
Brown says this is not the case. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

"Butler, Xavier, and Loyola are all good programs that we have to play well against to beat. They see Notre Dame on the schedule, and it becomes a def­inite preseason goal of theirs to beat us." 
Brown's record of 56-18 at Notre Dame is an indication of her tradition of winning with emphasis on a strong defense. "We are capable of playing re-
Men's tennis practice begins September 9. Tryouts for all !walk-ons wlll begin at 3:30. Anyone interested in trying out should contact the tennis office at 631-6113 or 631-4841. 
Women's tennis tryouts will be September 9 at 3:00 at the Courtney Tennis Center. Anyone interested in trying out MUST contact the tennis office at 631-5149. 
Notre Dame Sports Information is looking for volunteer help for the 1993-94 academic year. Our offic~ handles statistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more information, call Rose at 631-7516. 
NO Rugby Club practices everyday at 4:15 at Stepan Field anyone interested in coming must bring a mouthpiece and cleats. 
All track athletes interested in the indoor or outdoor season should attend a meeting on September 9 at 4:30 in Loftus. 
The NDISMC Equestrian Club will hold its first meeting for both old and new members September 9 at 7:00p.m. in Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. Bring money and insurance. For more info call Megan at 634-2812. 
Men's and women's varsity diving tryouts are being held from Wed. to Fri. at 4:00-5:30 p.m. in Rolfs Natatorium. For ques­tions call Adam or Randy at 631-8455. 
Interested In Rowing? The ND Rowing Club will hold an Infor­mational meeting for interested people Thursday, September 9 at 
7:30 in Room 118 Niewland. No experience necessary. · 
Women's safety and self-defense-Course objective is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life situations. Classes begin Monday, September 13. 10 sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays, 6:30-7:45 PM, Rockne Rm. 219. Class size is limited and open to students/faculty/staff and requires a $9.00 fee. For more information call631-6100. 
Shorln-RYU Karate-Students are instructed according to Oklnn.wan techniques. Classes begin Monday, September 13, and run throughout the semester on Mondays and Wednesdays 4:30­
6:00 and requires a $15.00 fee. Demonstration; Wednesday. September 8, 5:00 PM in Rockne 301. For more information call 631-6100 
SCUBA diving course-YMCA lifetime certification. Classes begin Sunday, September 12. Seven classroom and pool sessions meeting on Sundays 3:30-7:30 PM ImpOrtant information meet­ing Wednesday, September 8, 6:00 PM In Rockne 218. For more lnformadoo call631-6100. 
Biathlon-V2 mile swim and 2 mile run. Saturday, September 11, 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach. Three divisions: Varsity, Non-var­sity, and Team. Register in advance at RecSports. For more information call 631-6100. 
Off-Campus football players should attend the last day of tryouts on September 9 at Stepan Field at 4:30 p.m. If you have questions, call Matt at 273-8859. 
Off-campus students interested in playing interhall soccer should report to Stepan Field at 5 p.m. on September 13. Call Ed at 273-5971 with any questions. 
Anyone Interested In officiating flag football should attend a mandatory meeting on September 13 at 6 p.m. in the JACC 
~uditorium. 
w,·· 

This Week in Notre Dame Sports 
Home Opener Week Continues! 
it& 
Be there when the ~ MEN'S SOCCER TEAM 
/ 

opens their home season. 
Friday, September 1Oth Men's Soccer vs. Butler 7:30pm Alumni Field (adjacent to Ivy Road) 
FREE admission with Blue & Gold Card 


• 
need for improvement in is the side-out offense, which will al­low the team to avoid long ral­lies and strike quickly. With the long season and the already quickly adapting team, Brown is confident that this facet of the game will come along. 

ally good defense most of the time," states Brown, but she cautions, "It's not great consis­tently; there is room for im­provement." 
Brown also pointed out the team's ability to receive serve as it's major strength. "Our hit­ters are all versatile enough to pass the ball better than aver­age, and Janelle Karlan always makes the right choice with the second ball." 
The one area Brown sees 
1 Wed. 3 Fri. 4 Sat. 
?Tues. 10 Fri. 11 Sat. 
17 Fri. 
18 Sat. 
24 Fri. 25 Sat. 

28 Tues. 
October 

1 Fri. 2 Sat. 5 Tues. 8 Fri. 12 Tues. 19 Tues. 23 Sat. 25 Mon. 26 Tues. 29 Fr. 30 Sat. 
November 

2 Tues. 5 Fri. 13 Sat. 14 Sun. 19-20 Fri.-Sat. 
26 Fri. 27 Sat. 

at Valparaiso  Valparaiso, IN  
at Kentucky  Lexington, KY  
vs. Indiana  Lexington, KY  
vs. Louisville  Lexington, KY  
WASHINGTON  NOTRE DAME  
vs. Illinois  Chicago, IL  
vs. Colorado or Long Beach  Chicago, IL  
Shamrock Invitational  
CAL ST. NORTHRIDGE  NOTRE DAME  
William & Mary vs. New Mexico  
WILLIAM & MARY  
Cal St. Northridge vs. New Mexico  
William & Mary vs. Cal St. Northridge 
NEW MEXICO  

Golden Dome Invitational 
SANTA CLARA 
S.W. MISSOURI STATE NEBRASKA 
DE PAUL 
at Ball State at Western MichiganILLINOIS STATe ALUMNI at MichiganKENT STATE at Northern Arizona at Arizona State at Arizona at Butler* 
at Evansville* 
LOYOLA* XAVIER* at La Salle at Pittsburgh at Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships at Pacific vs. UCLA or Brigham Young NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME 
Muncie, IN Kalamazoo, Ml NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME Ann Arbor, Ml NOTRE DAME Flagstaff, AZ Tempe,AZTuscon, AZ Indianapolis, IN Evansville, IN 
NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME Philadephia,~.. PA Pittsburgh, ~A Evansvine, IN 
Stockton, CA Stockton, CA ?p.m.8p.m.11 a.m. ?p.m. 7:30p.m.8:45p.m.TBA 
4p.m.8p.m.11 a.m. 1 p.m. 5:30p.m.7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m.11 a.m. 7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m.7:30p.m. 7:30p.m.8p.m.?p.m.7:30p.m.?p.m. 7:30p.m.?p.m.?p.m. 4p.m. 
7:30p.m.7:30p.m.?p.m. 
~gAm. 
7:30p.m.TBA 

HOME MATCHES In BOLDFACE CAPS 
-C.Mullins 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! Class Rings Are Ready To Be Picked Up! 
Please Come To The Ring Department In The Rear Of The Store. Student Charge Forms Must Be Pre-Approved At Any Register Before Picking Up Your Ring. 
Ring Office Hours For Ring Pick Up Will Be Sept. 7, 1993 -Sept. 10, 1993 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 

----,..--­
~ --~-.----, 
.. '' .. ' ... ~ 




TODAY 
Thursday, September 9, 1993 
page 19 

SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
© 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 House. in Sonora
1 Hoofbeats 
35 Siegfried's

6 Yard supporter 
horse 

o Treasury agts. 
36 Anoint, old style 4 Place to which 
38U.S.NA

Abraham 
graduate

chased 
40Weird

Chedorlaomer 41 Goods attached 
5 Salmagundi 
to a buoy

6 Interlaced 
42 Baker's aide 

7 Aromatic herb 
440nthe -­

&Certain 
(precisely)

sharpeners 
45 Lovers' meeting 

Horse opera 
46 Opera by Salieri 

Slope 
47 Tom Mix's horse 48 R. E. Lee's horse 51 Scripts 54 Mythical winged horse 


BILL WATTERSON 
Ht-S 

\JN't.ll\IC1>-L IT ... 
58 Mounted procession 60 Lariat 61 Film star Tamiroff 62 Ending for emend 63 Drew or Terry 64 TV part 65 Sundowns, to Shelley 66 Knight's armor piece 
DOWN 

1 Plug of tobacco in 20 Across 2The-­
Ranger 3Geishas' sashes 
4 Short prose sketch 5 Luster 
6 Luna's ascension above the 

24 N.H. product 43 Director Kenton 51 Shoo's cousin 
horizon 

25 Distributed 46Fiy 52 Become crusty 
7--Baba cards 47 "There's a long, 53 Like hellhounds 
a Fictional steed 
26 Of an arm bone long--..-­55 Maglie and 

(see 2 Down) 27 Lamentation winding ..." Mineo
9 "... I was born 

"Well, I'm not sure .... You don't carry any other styles?" 
OF INTEREST 
.-::Ji:l~M·~~(~\~::@J];w;: ·:.>:/,~~~~w?:.,./:· -. -~ ... f~ ~:; .· ~.:... 



•Inf~~m~tiQl). M.,.,~g. FJ-.emPtle. Aus.tra.Ua fr>~a~! 
held today at 4:30p.m.• in toom 140 DeBartolo;·· c:. 
<-~-~;, .· ··::~::~\: ·,. :· '.=~?.k;~;i "}if:···: : IIVolunteers needed for Fun & L~am. A brj.eforientatioumeet­ing will be held today at 5 p.m. in the Center for SociafConcerns library. Fun & Learn assists. LD children f()rJhr!le houra each Saturday-. For ques~ons, ~pntact Sha~noJ! at4-401. t.. 
::)r: -\~Wtr -~~JWk:···...-,.:·~~~~h: .=·)\t:>·=.~w::::···=··· ::. ··-~:,.d;( 
•Information meetin~J. Angers, France PrQgl"am. ,will be hel 
today at 7p.m., in rooml14 O'§haughnessy, · ··· 
=·,·'·\{i_i.;:·=~!C'' ' .·'==X}.~::~ ''>~:?: .. Yt'~~;_: ::::,....4.~%~~p·=·=·· 
•Engineerbtg.majors.. gl"aduating t4is yea,r are encouraged to a~~n~ 'E11gine~ring Place1D(n1,t;tJi~ht todayfrom 7-8:~0 p,Jll; in the tfesburgh Library· Auditorium; Company representatives from G(}nera1.. ~le~mc •. 3M aud Anderse~>,consttlti1ig vvill4lscnss clireer o.l'portqllJties !Pld ~I1tervi~wing techl}iq{les f(l t!e~~; The 
ev-~nt iS sponsored b · reer and Plat:elnentSe <;mNP :: :::iJ§~:;=::,:,-aNf:~~j!i~;~~.m~}/ ..::,::~~i:i?f::J~::~jk ....9:;~:~=w= . : 
•·· .•....•••.•••...> .· .••.. >> aining ..ow:s ·... beofferedforallth~who 
h~y<r not preVioU.Sly att!'lnded and are. planning to· request use o G~nter (9r So<Jial ptmcern's V!Pl~. thl~ y~~r.:i T}le. ~oqr~e .wUl be offerf!d. 011 Thursday, ~~pt~ , !Pld again on Wedn~sday. Sept. 15 ~t 5 p.m<at the Center ...>.rrhls U~lmandatory for ~nyone wishing·~ drlVtt:.:a'. CSC :van-.,_._,.,,~==~-iA=:fu:,.,.-,:::;-;:· ...:._,_,_,_._~_., __,:,:·,::, ::.:,···:= .:::,:::::;;:. ,,..,,,.::,:_, ~-.:••;..·.··.·.,:.....~ ..•:.:.-,!....•:.·.·.;.•.~ ...~.. ..•.·.' ..·.'..:=.••.:::.·.,·.·,·.··..•·.·.··.-··•:v.·.,~.-:.·•..••..•......·.··· ·.·.·.'·.'·'.·,r.-..•.:.f
•.·.•.•'.:,·t·}·;•.:~ .•·.,~.'.: ...•·.·,.:::..•.·'··'··~
..•·.•.c •.••·:.!:..•.::.·.·.··'•.··:.:•..•.•.: .• ·· .• ·• ..•.'.:-.:

",.,-:_=,·::--.:,or-:·__ ..:,,... ,,.,._,' · ,_,.,.____:..=;:-.::w:-H%it·:--= ·.--.. -.,.._ ''''?::::,:.N@W%M1:$It.:: \::l't·l·f-i:\ · ,_"~ ~.:. · · · .------_.·· :. ;·_>;::., ·__:,,;~~:~-:-: '""'::·· 
-itright!": Hamlet ~1111111-=::+=:-+=-B 10 Forty 11 Actress Barrie 12 Level 4~=+-:.~fl!l!llll!l..::::t-BR=+=+=~ 13 Cozy retreat r.:-t:=-r.:-i7i 19 Roy Rogers's horse '---1..-'--'---' 21 Singer McEntire 
30 Slow, to Solti 31 Source of 
strength 32 Devoutness 34 At the middle 
37 Direction on an application form 39lllegal sellers of 
tickets 

49Ancient 56 They preyed on strongboxes Pueblos so White-plumed 57 Rational bird 59 Ho or Knotts 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

.. ,.,..n'<':illNoire ·Dame···>wu.·.·· 
_:___:,=,::::::EG:::;E}¥;~)-=-:='· ·===~= \t}::: ·<t1~M .. :·/::i;=:·=-· ·· 
. Beefalld Vegetables' T Turnover/Supreme 
·~oti~':;{th ~:~;~f~get;t1~~ · 
.. 

-----------~----~--­
--~.._---~---:---------------------~--~-~ ~---~ 
.·.·. ·i 

.. SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, September 9, 1993 
Irish volleyball program looking for national recognition 

1993 squad has sights set on NCAA tourney 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sporrs Writer 
In her third year as head vol­leyball coach at Notre Dame, Debbie Brown is lifting her sights higher and higher with each season, hoping to improve a program that is already start· ing to get recognition. 
"I want us to get better every year," said Brown, who has captured two Midwestern Collegiate Conference titles and an NCAA bid in her term with the Irish. 
"I'm hoping to live up to our ranking, to move up in the rankings, and to improve the program on the national level. I'd also like to get to the point where we can host an NCAA tournament game, but for that we'd have to be in the top 16," said Brown. 
Even with these lofty expecta­tions, Brown realizes that her task in guiding this year's team to such heights will be made difficult by the loss of so many key performers from the '92 Irish, including MCC player of the year Jessica Fiebelkorn. 
Still, Brown has been encour­aged by what she has seen so far, as the Irish have opened with a solid 4-1 re-cord. 
"Right now we're much far­ther along than I would have anticipated. We feel very good with our starters on the floor, and we're trying to get the bench some experience so that we will feel comfortable playing nine or ten people in any situa­tion," said Brown. 
This bench experience will be crucial throughout the season, as the Irish play 12 teams ranked in the preseason AVCA top-25, including six in the top ten. However. Brown sees this murderous schedule as an ab­solute advantage. 
"We have nothing to lose, be­cause the pressure is all on them. If we can compete 
see Vball I page 18 


, New AD prepares to make changes at SMC 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Spons Editor 

This year looks to be one of change for Saint Mary's athletics. beginning at the top. 
Jan Travis has just begun her tour at Saint Mary's as athletic director, replacing Dr. JoAnn Nester, who left for Dartmouth in July. One of the first matters Travis will be looking into is fllllng the head swim coach and tennis coach vacancies. 
Travis, who came to Saint Mary's after a six-year stay at Coe College, brings much enthusiasm to her new position. 
"The program at Saint Mary's is one that has expe­rienced tremendous growth over the last ten years," she said. ''I'm looking forward to continuing that growth." 
In striving for continued growth. Travis hopes to gain nationals rank.ings, as well as enhance the respect for the program. This will take a lot of work and research to accomplish, but Travis acknowledges the challenge. 
"We will have to do research to examine our possi­bilities and see what is possible," she noted. Increasing the size of programs and the number of participants, according to Travis, are two changes she wants to make in the athletic department. 
Saint Mary's appealed to Travis because of its 
see AD I page 15 

Major League 
Baseball .. 
Orioles keep winning. Complete American and National League capsules 
see page 13 
First impressions strong for freshmen 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

As a regular student, the first home football game is pretty exciting, but as a freshman football recruit, the experience is overwhelming. 
Some have been here for most of the summer and some since the beginning of August working out and readying for the new season. On a regular basis, these freshmen got pounded into the ground by the older and stronger upperclassmen during practice. 
Last Saturday, all the work was rewarded when those freshmen got their first chance to run through the tunnel. hit the sign and be greeted by 59, 075 screaming fans. 
The words they used to describe the experience give a fair indication of their first impressions of live colle­giate football: "awesome," "happy," "impressed," and "amazed." 
Walking through the tunnel was especially memo­rable for the freshmen. 
Mike Doughty, an offensive lineman from Elko, Minnesota, admits that passing through the tunnel was as great as he thought it would be. 
"It was a rush going out on the field and seeing all the fans. Running through the tunnel was something I was looking forward to," said Doughty. "I was amazed at how they can pack all those people in there." 
Classmate Marc Edwards was similarity impressed by his first trip into Notre Dame Stadium as a player. "It was definitely a new and exciting experience for 
see FROSH I page 15 
Inside SPORTS 
Pro Football Buffalo's Jim Kelly might be facing knee surgery. see page 12 

The Observer/Brian McDonough Freshman Randy Kinder saw playing time against Northwestern and contributed this run to the Irish effort. 
Pro Tennis Men's and women's U.S. Open results see page 14 









