-------~---~---., 


Friday, September 10, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.IO Till" INDEPENDrNT NEWSPAPEIZ SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Child care

Sisters, Bishop dash over Loretto dispute 
Church pamphletfuels renewed debate 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Saint Mary's Editor 
When the Church of Our Lady of Loretto was rededicat­ed last spring, many thought that the controversy over its contemporary renovation had ended, but a pamphlet on the new Church and Bishop John D'Arcy's response to it have refueled the debate. 
D'Arcy, of the Fort Wayne­South Bend Diocese, ordered that a pamphlet that was dis­tributed within the Church on the Saint Mary's campus be removed on the grounds that it was not in line with official Church teachings. 
The pamphlet issued by the Sisters of the Holy Cross titled "The Renewed Church of Our Lady of Loretto," is an explanation of the changes made to the church and an attempt to quiet the controver­sy that has surrounded the renovation since it was announced. The removal of the stained glass windows, statues, altar. pews and a por­tion of the mosiacs stirred up much debate among the Sisters, students. alumnae, and 
" ... to allow this presen­tation to go unchallenged would be a dereliction in the responsiblity given to 
, 

me... Bishop John D'Arcy 
South Bend residents. 
The Bishop's response came in the form of a 15-page pam­phlet-"The Eucharist-A Response" -in which he ad­dressed the misinterpretations of Church documents about the Eucharist and the church floor plan made by the Sisters. 
"To teach the faith accurate­ly requires. . . the obligation of correcting teachings which are erroneous," D'Arcy said in his pamphlet. "For me to allow this presentation to go unchal­lenged would be a dereliction in the responsibliity given to me by Christ through the Church." 
The pamphlet issued by the Sisters was not intended as a teaching document though, ac­cording to Joanne Mullin, director of communication for the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"The Sisters don't have any problems with the teachings of the Church," Mullin said. "The Sisters didn't intend for the brochure to be a theologi­cal document. It was intended to explain the new church and the reasons for the renova­tion." 
D'Arcy's contention is that the role of a Bishop is to "pro­tect the Church," and that not responding to the Congregation's pamphlet would be shirking his duties as the Bishop of the Diocese. 
The pamphlet said that "the most powerful experience of the sacred is found in the cele­bration and the persons cele­brating, and in the action of the assembly. The assembly is the primary sign of the priest­hood of Jesus Christ; the assembly is the primary minis­ter; the assembly is the Church." 
This statement presents a view of the Eucharist that does not match the Church's official teaching on the subject, according to D'Arcy. 
The Eucharist, D'Arcy said, is God-centered according to official teaching, but the pam­plet claims that the "most pow­erful experience of the sacred is found 'in the celebration and in the persons celebrating and in the action of the assembly," not in the Eucharist. 
In addition to saying that the understanding of the Eucharist was flawed, D'Arcy also said that a defined sanctuary was missing from the renovated church, which is clearly dic­tated for in the "General Instruction of the Roman Missal," an "authoritative doc­ument on how churches should be arranged." 
The Congregation's pamphlet 
says that "the whole space has 
become the sanctuary." 
D'Arcy said that this state­
ment is flawed and is not in ac­
cordance with the "General 
Instruction of the Roman 
Missal" which clearly spells out 
that "The sanctuary should be 
clearly marked off from the 
body of the church, either by 
being somewhat elevated of by 
its distinctive design and ap­
pointments." 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek (above) A view of the renovated Church of Our Lady of Loretto. Since the renovation plans were announced in 1991, controversy has abounded most recently in regard to a pamphlet distributed by the Sisters of the Holy Cross explaining the changes made in the renovation. (right) A close-up view of the crucifix that hangs in the Church of Loretto. The cross was one of the additions made to the church when it was renovat­ed. 
The sanctuary area in the Church of Loretto is movable and unelevated, which the Bishop said is a violation of the official Church teaching. 
"What must be noted here is that those who write texts like this, as well as those who de­sign a new church or renovate an old one, have a serious obli­gation to follow the proper and 
see CHURCH I page 4 

SMC plan outlines future goals 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
working draft. Assistant Saint Mary's Editor The Assembly had trouble making the necessary revisions 
"Honoring Tradition and on the floor, so they in turn cre­Pioneering Change" are both ated a three-person Facultygoals of the faculty, administra­Assembly Draft Rewrite 
tion, and staff of Saint Mary's Committee which revised the as well as the name of a new draft several times this sum­
"It is clear that important
document SMC will use to co­mer.
changes are being made,"
ordinate ideas while planning The Rewrite Committee sent
Horning said. "These changes
the future of the college. the faculty revised copies of the 
soon to come at Saint Mary's
The Long Range Planning working draft with a request
College reflect significant in­
Committee (LRPC), chaired by for both written comments and Professor Donald Horning of volvement of the entire com­verbal comments at an open
munity."
the Sociology, Anthropology, discussion meeting of faculty on
The LRPC presented the doc­
and Social Work Department, Sept. 2. 
ument to the Faculty Assembly 
was initially given the respon­"It is important that the fac­
on Feb. 14, 1993. At that time,
sibility to create the working ulty assume the responsibility
an Ad Hoc committee was
draft of the "Honoring 
formed to review the LRPC
Tradition and Pioneering see PLAN I page 4 
for Fall '94 
By SARAH DORAN Assistant News Editor 
Based on widespread de­mand from many facets of the University-along with the con­clusive findings of an organized task force on child care-Notre Dame will open an on-campus child care facility for the chil­dren of University faculty, staff, and students in September 1994. 
"The task force evaluated the need for child care based upon a survey of about 6,000 faculty. staff, and students-in addition to forums which identified the various child care needs,"said Roger Mullins, director of hu­man resources and co-chair of the task force, which was com­posed of representatives of the faculty. graduate students, and staff. 
To be located on University property across from the O'Hara-Grace Graduate resi­dences on Bulla Road. the cen­ter will be housed in a facility to be built by the University at an estimated cost of $1.4 mil­lion. 
The program will be a part­nership between the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) and Notre Dame. The ECDC, a non-profit corporation which pays its own liability in­surance, also oversees the child care center on the Saint Mary's Campus, which has suited the needs of both schools for 18 years. 
Terms of the agreement call for Notre Dame to own, main­tain and pay the utilities of the building while renting the facil­ity to the ECDC for $1 a year. according to Terry Kosik, director of the ECDC. Notre Dame will also pay for half of the center's bus to be used for field trips, she said. 
The center will serve 120 
children 2-6 years old during 
the academic year and 145 
children 2-9 years old during 
the summer. It will operate 49 
weeks of the year from 5:45 
a.m. until 6:00 p.m., closing for two weeks at Christmas time and one week during the month of August, Kosik added. 
see CARE I page 6 

FOOTBALL 


NOTRE DAME 
Fighting Irish VS 
MICHIGAN Wolverines 

Friday, September 10, 1993
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
A ne-w trend: Character assasstnatton 
With the arrival of "Under the Tarnished Dome," character assas­sination became fashion­able. 

It started with the attacks by authors Don Yaeger and Doug Looney in the book released nationally Tuesday. They make several seri­ous allegations against head coach Lou Holtz, charging that he knew of payments to players during his time at the University of Minnesota and that he ignored and even recommended steroid use at Notre Dame. 
But much of the 299-page book is an attack on Holtz's character and integrity. Yaeger and Looney bar no holds in their effort to separate the Lou Holtz of myth from the Lou Holtz of reality. For example: 
• 
They explain that some Minnesota resi­dents were disenchanted by his public jokes about their state: "When I'd be on my knees thanking God for what He'd done for me, I'd always thank Him for not sending me to Minnesota." 

• 
They spend a chapter quoting players upset with Holtz's 'abusive treatment' of play­ers, from slapping them to jerking their hel­met to spitting in their faces. 


The response to the book's contents has been equally personal. 
Former tight end Tom Byrne wrote to ex­press his "contempt and disgust" for the au­thor. John Askin, a former Notre Dame offen­sive linesman, accused Yaeger of "blackmail" and "out right fraud," and argued that Yaeger took his quotes and views out of context. 
Yaeger minced no words in his response. "The both of them have problems. A copy of John Askin's tape has been provided to 'Nightline,'" he said. 
"'Nightline' thinks John Askin is a joke." 
Not to be outdone was the South Bend Tri­bune. In a story under the headline "Yaeger's Past Tarnished," sports writer David Haugh gave the book's co-author a taste of his own medicine. 
To Haugh's credit, the story includes ex­tensive quotes and defense from Yaeger, but the premise of the piece matches that of the book: negative. 
Haugh's meticulous backgrounder provides some insight into Yaeger style and past, reporting on problems he faced during his career in journalism, ranging from excessive parking tickets to complaints about the accu­racy of his work. 
The most even-keeled reaction has come from a surprising source: Notre Dame. 
While Holtz refused to comment, Father William Beauchamp simply said Notre Dame does not accept the premise of the book. He went on to stress the University's academic standards, steroids testing and devotion to its head football coach without slamming Yaeger, Looney, Simon & Schuster, Ted Koppel or ABC. 
Now in the spotlight of the national media, Yaeger wants some slack about his checkered past. "I've made mistakes. I've got things I wish I could change," he told Haugh. But "Notre Dame obviously doesn't want to talk about the book. They want to talk personali­ties." 
If only Yaeger had considered those words before he loaded his gun. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Production 
John Lucas Cheryl Moser Theresa Aleman Vivian Gembara Laura Ferguson Susan Marx 
Sports Graphics Brian Kubicki Brendan Regan lab Tech Eric Ruechling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tourist killed despite precautions 
MIAMI 
Uwe-Wilhelm Rakebrand had just arrived from Germany for a vacation with his wife. While he filled out his car rental contract, a videotape playing every five minutes in the background gave tourists tips about avoid­ing street crime. Don't become another victim of the highly publicized violence targeting tourists in Florida, the rental office video said. Don't stop for the "bump­and-rob" ploy. Less than five miles away, as the 33-year­old Rakebrand drove a new red Toyota toward a Miami Beach hotel early Wednesday, the car was rammed twice from behind by a van. Safety pamphlet in hand, Rakebrand's 27-year-old wife told him to keep going, police said. But when he did, a single shot fired from the van shattered the driver's window and hit him in the back, killing him. The van sped away. Police had no idea why the Rakebrands were targeted. Late Wednesday night, however, they said they had arrested a suspect. Police wouldn't release the name of the 19-year-old male, who is charged with first-degree murder and robbery. Police said they would let state prosecutors determine whether a robbery took place. More suspects are being sought, said Sgt. Gerald Green, who wouldn't elaborate but characterized them as "hunters." It was the eighth slaying of a foreign visitor to Florida in a year. 'Vicious. Brutal. Disgusting. Horrible. Pick a word,'' said police spokesman Angelo Bitsis. "We are completely outraged,'' said Liz Clark, a spokeswoman for Alamo Rent A Car, which rented the car to Rakebrand. "There is absolutely nothing the victim could have done to revent this crime." 
The killing brought swift reaction from the German government and the White House. "Obviously, it's tragic, violence against foreigners as well as violence against Americans," White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said. "It's something that the president is very concerned about. "Germany's foreign ministry repeated its warning that tourists have rental cars delivered to their hotels rather than pick them up at Miami International Airport. Travel advisories will be re-examined because of the lat­est attack, the ministry said. More than 400,000 Germans travel to Florida each year, including about 250,000 visit­ing the Miami area. Rental cars in Florida in the past have been easy targets, marked with special license plates, bumper stickers and window stickers. But rental companies this year have been removing those distin­guishing features and Rakebrand, an agriculture engi­neer from Adendorf, Germany, was driving a car without any such markings.The precautions were no hlp. 
Discovery astronauts confident. ready 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
Five astronauts who have endured five launch delays returned to Kennedy Space Center on Thursday, confi­dent the latest countdown will lead to liftoff. Discovery commander Frank Culbertson Jr. and his crew will try again Sunday morning to leave on a satellite-delivery flight that's two months overdue. The countdown -their fourth -began Thursday. "They said the second time was a charm, the third time was a charm. OK, this is the fourth time and we're ready to go," Culbertson said. He added: "As you know, it's one for the money.""Two for the show," his pilot said. "Three to get ready," added another astronaut. "And four is to GO!" shouted a fourth. 
As for shuttle launch team members, NASA test direc­tor Bill Dowdell said there is no sense of bad luck or anx­iousness. They've encountered just about everything since the first launch attempt for this mission in mid-July: engine trouble, booster trouble, pad trouble, payload concerns, even a meteor shower. "We have said all along that we will launch when we're ready," Dowdell said. The fifth delay occurred late last week when NASA slipped the launch date from Friday to Sunday. Managers of an experimental communications satellite aboard Discovery needed more time to review documents. They 

1. Orlando Oct.3 Keith Thompson. 42, Chelmsford, England Shot and killed in front of his wife and two friends after relusing to surrender his wallet to robbers. 
2. 
Fort Myers Dec. 8 Rudl Rohlott. 54, Germany Shot to death along aquiet street 

3. 
Lake Worth Dec. 29 Marc Nadeau. 33, Canada Shot to death while walking with his lather and son to a store to buy milk. 

4. 
Sunny Isles beach Jan. 22 Ralph Passero. 56, Ontario, Canada Shot to death when attempting to drive away from an apparent robber outside of a restaurant. 


5. Miami Jan. 26 Jesus Alberto Delgado, 47, Venezuela Shot to death while being robbed outside Homestead ........,-tl:< of a friend's home. 
6. Homestead March 11 Jorg Schell, 59, Germany Shot to death outside of a motel just alter his wife checked in. 
7. Miami April2 Barbara Meller Jensen, 39, Bertin, Germany Killed by robbers after she, her two children and her mother strayed off an Interstate highway into anortheast Miami neighborhood. 
8. Miami, Sept. 8 Uwe-WIIhelm Rakebrand, 33, Adendorf, Germany Shot to death in front of his pr~nant wile by the driver of a van that purposely rammed the rear of hts rental car. 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
The killing of Uwe-Willhelm Rakebrand was the eighth slay­ing of a Florida visitor this year. Despite security precautions Rakebrand was shot and killed after being rammed from behind by a van. 
wanted to make sure none of the satellite parts was com­mon to the missing Mars Observer or a weather satellite also lost in space last month. All three spacecraft were made by Martin Marietta Corp. Managers on Wednesday night cleared the communications satellite for flight. Discovery's biggest and riskiest launch scrub occurred Aug. 12. The three main engines ignited and shut down three seconds left in the countdown because of a broken sensor that indicated no fuel flow to engine No. 2 when in fact there was. 
Pope visits Protestant Latvia 
AGLONA, Latvia 
Pope John Paul II reached out to other denominations today during his visit to this heavily Protestant country. "The presence in Aglona of Christian brothers and sisters belonging to other denominations, the Orthodox and the Lutherans, who wanted to share such a significant moment of common prayer, is particularly meaningful for me today and for all the Christian people of Latvia,'' the pope said. John Paul was on the sixth day of his weeklong pilgrimage to Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, the first visit ever by a pope to the territory of the former Soviet Union. He planned to go to Tallinn, Estonia, on Friday before returning to Rome. Roman Catholics account for only 19 percent of Latvia's 2.6 million people, in contrast to Lithuania, which is overwhelmingly Catholic. During his visit, the pope has sought to mend fences with Russia and the Russian Orthodox Church, which has complained about the work of foreign missionaries and lobbied for laws restricting their activities. 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Sept. 10 Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

............ COLD WARM STATIONARY C t993 Accu·Woather.lne. 

Pffi$8UffJ 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H  L  Dallas Jerusalem  84 79  71 59  New York Paris  68 70  65 54  
Athens  84  61  London  70  55  Philadelphia  71  65  
AUanta  68  68  Los Angeles  93  66  Rome  Bt  54  
Boston  70  62  Madrid  84  63  swte  85  59  
Chicago Cleveland  73 74  56 51  Minneapolis Moscow  71 61  46 46  Washington. D.C.  79  69  




Friday, September 10, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS 

Senate p~sses restrictive gay policy 
By DONNA CASSATA Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate branded homosexuality an "unaccept­able risk" to military morale and voted Thursday to tighten President Clinton's policy toward gays in the military. 
In the first floor vote on the issue since Clinton unveiled his "don't ask, don't tell, don't pur­sue" policy in July, the Senate rejected a measure that would have left the matter to the pres­ident's discretion. 
The vote was 63-33, with members of the Democratic leadership, including Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell of Maine and Sen. Robert Byrd of West Virginia voting against the amendment. 
Part of the fiscal 1994 defense budget, the gays in the military measure overshad­owed debate on billion-dollar weapons systems. But the dis­cussion Thursday lacked the emotionalism the issue sparked earlier this year. 
The House and Senate worked Thursday on the overall spending plan for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. 
The House Armed Services Committee has already adopted the same legislative policy as the Senate, and the full House was expected to pass it next week. 
Clinton could veto the legisla­





"Ellie' 

We Will! 
Jordan & Taylor 
Three Great Sho,vs Conling To The State! 
"Dream AI/ Day" as 

p 0 sI E s
!er;kQWUV THE 

tion to eliminate the con­gressional policy but he would also lose the entire defense budget, the first of his adminis­tration. Clinton has signaled to Congress that he finds this new policy acceptable. 
The legislative policy states that Congress has the constitu­tional right to make rules for the military, that the armed forces are unique and "persons who demonstrate a propensity or intent to engage in homosex­ual acts would create an unac­ceptable risk to the high stan­dards of morale, good order and discipline" in the military. 
Clinton's compromise policy ended the practice of question­ing recruits and service mem­bers about their sexual orienta­tion, but allowed the military to continue to discharge homosex­uals. 
The president's plan centers on the premise that orientation is not a bar to military service and calls for an end to witch­hunts to ferret out gays. It also urges even-handed enforce­ment of the Uniform Code of Military Justice for heterosexu­als and homosexuals. 
The legislation makes no mention of orientation, witch­hunts or the code, and says a future defense secretary could reinstate the policy of asking recruits their sexual ori­entation. 
Leading proponents of the military's original ban on 
homosexuals, Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., the Armed Services Committee chairman, and Republican Sen. Dan Coats of Indiana, crafted the legislative policy. 
The plan won the backing of conservative Democrats and Republicans in the Senate and House, with GOP lawmakers referring to it as "ban-plus." 
In a last-ditch effort, Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., pushed an amendment to strike the Nunn-Coats measure, arguing that legalization of the plan would be a dangerous prece­dent usurping the powers of the commander in chief. 
Liberal Democrats said Clinton's compromise was a first step that had been ac­cepted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, whose opposition back in January forced the president to abandon his campaign pledge to completely lift the half-cen­tury ban on homosexuals. 
"The spirit of the Clinton plan is protective of people's rights," said Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio. "The Armed Services Committee provision on the other hand is brutal, brutal." 
Metzenbaum said the tougher policy "purports to codify what the president has already done. It is a sham ... It is a gratu­itutous slap in the face to courageous young men and women who have served their nation." 
By LEE SIEGEL 
Associated Press 
PASADENA 
A milk carton taped to a wall in the Mars Observer mission office has a picture of the van­ished spacecraft instead of a missing child ad. The caption reads: "Have You Seen Me?" 
Three weeks after Mars Observer disappeared, engi­neers with humor and hope as well as determination and new computer commands still are struggling to save the $980 mil­lion mission, even though NASA's management is investi­gating its apparent demise. 
"They're doing an autopsy and we think possibly the vic­
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
IN NEED OF CASH 1 

Loan Fund 
interest 
day loan 
'}•r•••,.,.,,.,.,.,.,.,.,..,.,,
••,,.,"",.'.ctl 0 -$250 
Stop by O'Hara Lounge, LaFortune (next to info desk) 11:30-12:30 Mon-Fri 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
The Observer/Brian McDonough 

Live from LaFortune! 
Kate Babka and Justin Mitchell (left to right) perform at the first Acoustic Cafe last night. Every Thursday evening, campus artists 
entertain students in The Huddle. 
tim is still kicking," said Leigh Torgerson, deputy chief of the spacecraft team. "You don't quit doing CPR until the doctor shows up and tells you the patient is flatlined." 
Controllers lost touch with Mars Observer on Aug. 21, only three days before the space­craft was supposed to fire its thrusters, enter Martian orbit and start the first U.S. ex­ploration of the Red Planet in 17 years. The spacecraft, launched from Florida last year, remained silent Thursday. 
Gloom has descended on NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, where Mars Observer workers are suffering the disappearance of a decade's work, face some layoffs and feel anxiety and exhaustion. Colleagues constantly approach them to offer support. 
"It's sort of like you lost somebody in your family -the condolences you get," said Suzanne Dodd, chief of the mis­sion planning team. 
Nevertheless, Mars Observer offices are adorned with editor­ial cartoons lampooning the spacecraft's troubles. Workers recount the latest jokes from David Letterman, who this week quipped that NASA was launching a bloodhound with a jetpack to hunt down Mars Observer. 
"If you take it too seriously, you'd be so depressed you'd be in bad mental state," Dodd said. "Humor helps relieve the tension." 
Mars Observer's dis­appearance has revived criti­cism of NASA and renewed emphasis on the agency's fail­ures, but "the thing that's both­ered me most is that some peo­ple have given up hope ­NASA, JPL management and the public," said mission man­ager Sam Dallas. "They're not close to what's going on." 
Dallas and other engineers insist real hope exists that Mars Observer didn't suffer an irre­versible failure, but instead was silenced by a malfunction that might be fixed by radioing new computer commands from Earth. 
Home Based Bed/Breakfast Alliance 
Local, Family Comfort for all ND activities 
(219) 271,0989 
24 hour answering machine 
1 
l 

CAMPUS BRIEFS 
•some 150 Notre Dame alumni involved in higher education will return to cam­pus for a weekend conference on teaching Sept. 10-12. 
The O'Malley Conferance 
on Excellence in Teaching, 
sponsored by the Alumni 
Association's Alumni 
Continuing Education office, 
memorializes Frank O'Malley, 
the legendary professor of 
English who taught at Notre 
Dame from 1936 ll'ntil his 
death in 1974. 
Conference organizers 
intend to address five themes: 
undergraduate science edu­
cation, undergraduate busi­
ness education, the Catholic 
university, tradition and 
multi-culturalism in the 
humanities. and the the 
social sciences and gender 
studies. 
The conference discussions 
will arise from lectures given 
by Jaroslav Pelikan, Sterling 
Professor of History at Yale. 
and Cordelia Chavez Cande­
laria, professor of English at 
Arizona State University. 
Pelikan, author of "The Idea of the University: a Reexamination," will speak on "Teaching and Learning; the Teacher as Learner,'' on Sept. 10 at 8 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. Candelaria, whose most recent book is "Arroyos to the Heart," will speak on Culture, Commitment, and the Poetics of Teaching" Sept. 11 at 11 
a.m. in the CCE. 
•tndl Dieckgrafe, associate professor of dance at Saint Mary's, took part in the recently concluded Festival of Sacred Performing Arts, part of the 1993 Parliament of the World's Religions, held in Chicago. 
Dieckgrafe led members of the Sacred Dance Guild through a performance of two pieces of her own chore­ography, "The Prayer of Jesus" and "Psalm 23" on Sept. 2. 
The parliament, which met for the flrst time in 100 years, brought together people of different religions from throughout the world. 

CORRECTION 
Due to incorrect informa­tion provided to The Ob­server, a correction in yes­terday's issue misstated tick­et information for the pre­miere of "Rudy." The $25 tickets do include the post­premiere party as stated in the original story Tuesday. 
•Budget 
airfares anywtlere. 

•International 
student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued on-the-spot. 

•lntemationaiiD 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 


•Expert travel advice. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Aoor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magar.ine! 


Church 
continued from page 1 
official Church documents," he said. 
The explainations in "The Renewed Church of Our Lady of Loretto" were taken from a 1978 document entitled "Environment and Art in Catholic Worship" written by the National Conference of Chatholic Bishops (NCCB), ac­cording to Mullin. 
The difference between the two documents is that while the "General Instruction fo the Roman Missal" is considered li­turgical law, while "Environment and Art in Catholic Worship" is not. 
Despite this, Mullin said that the Sisters have no plan to change the Church. 
"They are planning on keep­ing it as is because it was planned that way, it was very deliberate," Mullin said. 
The plan of the Church is not to take the focus off the Eucharist of Jesus as the Bishop contented, according to Mullin. 
"The new Church places more importance on the assem­bly," Mullin said. 
If the Bishop were to try to force the Sisters to make his prescribed changes within the Church of Loretto, Mullin said she is not positive that the Sisters would have to act. 
Because the Church of Loretto is regarded as a private chapel and not a parish church, it is not certain if the Bishop has any say in matter, accord­ing to Mullin. 
"The Congregation has con­sulted two cannon lawyers and both have told us that they are not real definite on who has jurisdiction over the Church be-
PuliLHCE 
~CIMMPIDN 
TtJ/MII 
The JloUo That Motivates • Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 
Distributed by:
1-800-597-2461 

AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 

209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
Look for theN' Image Logo on the tag. K's your guarantee of quality. Why settle for second best7 
Play Ukra Champion Today. "'pending 
Start your year off with a good
j laugh: 

' _/ just For Fu11 
~)I Crack-Ups 
~~ rf. 

·~ Co1nedy Ca1 e 
Featuring: 

Pat Francis 
Opening for Headliner 
BOB 


RUMBA 
Friday Sept 10 
STUDENT 
ACTIVITIES
9:00-11:00 p.m. 
B-O-A-R-0
In the Dining Hall 
SAINT MARY'S
Cost: $2.00 per person 
COLLEGE 

CHURCH OF OUR LADY OF LOREnO DIALOGUE 
The f~llowing are excerpts from the Congregation's explaination of the renovated Church of Loretto and the Bishop's response to statements. 
Liturgy is the assembly. 
-The Renewed Church ofOur Lady ofLoretto -The Eucharist: A Response 
cause it is a private chapel," Mullin said. "It is a gray area." 
In spite of the fact that juris­diction over the church is in question, Mullin said that D'Arcy was aware of the plans and the reasons for the renova­tion for five years. 
"The Bishop was informed of the plans along the way," Mullin said. She said that a special committee of the Bishop reported between the Congregation and the Bishop and he was told all the details of the plan at every stage. 
In an official statement from D'Arcy's office he said that he "entered this matter during the latter stages." He further said that he and Sister Catherine O'Brien, president of the Congregation "have come to an understanding and there is no reason for further comment." 
Since the plans for the reno­
At····M·.a.. s•..·.s.•.. we are...".o.·t. ·••mplating each
ot~r.'.That is not pur ose. Rather, we pa~lo!pl.lte.ln.an.d join purs.e.· .lv·e.·s to 
the act1on of JE*JIJ$ Christ.··· · ·lJt';.• ..•.. 
.. . ·.. . . . §~!! •.
... 
··· .. 

The shift in this away from the liturgy as · to the liturgy as centered in a misrepresentation accepted, would bring abol,rt harm. 

Savior .... The F-¥•u·h~rilltiill Christ's very 
vation for the Church of Loretto were announced to the Congregation in July 1991 and to the students in September 1991 controversy has sur-



Plan 
continued from page I 
for change," Horning said. 
In order to incorporate the needs of everyone, College President William Hickey ap­pealed to the administration and staff for their ideas regard­ing the most recent copy of the working draft. Written re-

F I 

~ SATURDAY LjSEPTEMBER 11,1993 
10:30 AM ST. JOE BEACH 1/2 MILE SWIM 2 MILE RUN THREE DIVISIONS: W!AlF-:l~fllJV 
~© oo c. w£U:U ®J:rv IT~/A[M] 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS [ 




q._ l 

632-6100 FOR MORE INFO )~ 
w A N T E D 
ACTORS, ACTRESSES, PERFORMERS FOR MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTIONS 
Film production students at Notre Dame need performers of all types for roles in student films. 
Besides theatre students, we are particularly interested in people who are younger or older than college age (including children) from all communities. 
Please send ASAP: 
-a photograph ( 8XIO glossy, snapshot, or polaroid) 
-an information page listing age, special skills, hobbies, foreign languages, prior experience, if any, plus address and phone numbers (home and work) to: 
Professor Jill Godmilow Department of Communication & Theatre University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
rounded the Church and the Congregation, but no official action was ever taken by the Bishop until the issue of his pamphlet in June of 1993. 
quests were to be submitted to Hickey by Sept. 9. 
If the Assembly approves the latest working draft of the doc­ument it will be presented to Hickey who will submit the final report to the Board of Regents for discussion at their next meeting on October 21. 
"The effect of the report is to set the direction for Saint Mary's for the year 2000," said Professor Kevin McDannel. 

·-·-.......... ·--··-'·••.......-••'••··_. •.•. a..a •.• t t ... t 1' ........ _-.t I • > • '-• • 

Friday, September 10, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT pageS 
Back To School With Our Estee Lauder 



FREE 7-PIECE GIFT 
WITH ANY ESTEE LAUDER PURCHASE OF $150RMORE 
Our playful pop-art case comes brimming with six spectacular Estee Lauder favorites. Offer good while 
FIRMING NOURISHER 
supplies last. Quantities 
Serious moisture to keep your skin in 
limited. One per customer, 
shape, absorbs in an instant. 
T 
please. 
..'.L .. " 

TWO ALL·DAY LIPSTICKS You've got two lips, you get two full-sized lipsticks in two luscious shades. 
MORE THAN MASCARA With the exclusive Moisture-Binding 

KNOWING BODY LOTION 
Formula to condition, color and 
When it comes to soft and sexy, indulge your lashes to the max. 
Knowing Body Lotion with lush emollients to soothe your skin. 
PORTABLE PURSE MIRROR Last, but not least, make sure you see it all clearly. 


L.S. Ayres~ lutes the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame 

-~----~-~----------~~~­
20 years after coup, Chile stable 
By EDUARDO GALLARDO Associatcd Press 
SANTIAGO 
It's been 20 years since Gen. Augusto Pinochet led a bloody coup that destroyed one of Latin America's longest-lasting democracies. Now he's getting some credit -albeit grudgingly -for returning Chile to its democratic roots. 
After ruling for 16 1/2 years, Pinochet handed power to President Patricio Aylwin in 1990, but remained comman­der of the army. 
The move angered his critics, but some of them now say it helped keep the army in check during a crucial transition. 
"1 think Pinochet has been an element restraining those who wanted a more autonomous position for the military," Ricardo Lagos, a leading social­ist in the fight against Pinochet. told the Santiago daily El Mercurio. 
"It's better to talk to a single person and not to many," he added, referring to Pinochet's 
uncontested  control  of the  
army.  
This  is  a  new  light  on  

Pinochet's role in history. 
On Sep. 11, 1973, Pinochet led the armed forces in the upnsmg against Marxist President Salvador Allende amid a deep economic crisis and social unrest. 
Allende died as his palace was under ground and air attack, becoming a martyr for 
Care 
continued from page 1 
The cost of the program will be tied to a tuition scholarship structure based upon parent income, she said. 
Priority for the facility's ser­vices will be given to Notre Dame students and staff, said Kosik, and a lottery for use of the center will take place late this fall. 
The beginning seeds of inter­est in a child care center on the Notre Dame campus were planted in the 1988 findings of the Task Force on Marriage, Family and Other Life Commitments, said Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate provost and co-chair of the child care task force. The previ­ous task force made recom­mendations to build a on-cam­pus center and to fund the cost of child care within employee benefits, she said. 
But at the time, a need for the center did not exist because the ECDC facility at Saint Mary's suited the needs of both Universities, she said, although the University did approve the funding of child care through benefits. 
After the 1988 findings, though, the demand for child care skyrocketed, leading to a hefty waiting list for the exist­ing facility, said Cannon, who also sits on the board of the ECDC. This change prompted to the 1991 recommendation to reevaluate the problem and create the task force, she said. 
leftists here and abroad. 
U.S. President Richard Nixon's administration did not back the coup, but it had been involved in undermining Allende through covert opera­tions, supplying funds to his opponents and promoting civil unrest. 
But as Marxism collapsed around the world, Allende's legacy has faded. Even in Chile, his own Socialist Party has abandoned the hard-line Marxist ideology he promoted for decades. His daughter. Isabel, is running for Congress on a moderate ticket. 
Pinochet has been harshly criticized for his human rights record. According to govern­ment figures, 2,215 people were killed and 1,000 others disappeared after being arrest­ed by security forces, and thou­sands more were tortured, arrested or forced into exile under his reign. 
His economic legacy was less controversial. Aylwin has left Pinochet's free-market policies virtually untouched, except for an increase in social spending. 
The result has been an aver­age growth of 6.5 percent since the 1980s. Inflation remains curbed at 12 percent, unem­ployment at 4.9 percent. 
In spite of occasional ten­sions, including an army show of force last May to protest media coverage of officiers being tried for human rights violations, few see the military now as a threat to democracy. 
facility lacks, according to Kosik. 
The facility will offer the fol­lowing servic,es that are unavailable at St. Mary's: 
•resources 
for a two year old age group; 

•a 
49 week program instead of St. Mary's 35 week program; 

•expanded 
daily hours, although children are only to stay for a maximum of 10 hours. 


ECDC will staff an on-sight program director at each site, degreed teachers in each class­room, and also paid and volun­teering students. Kosik will be the executive director of both sites. 

Aylwin's four-year term is widely considered successful, but the president himself still believes there is work to be done mending military-civilian relations and settling rights issues. 
While Pinochet is generally no longer seen as a threat to democracy, his controversial comments keep him in the news. 
He once described members of the German army as "mari­juana smokers, homosexuals, long-haired unionists." 
He caused an uproar when the bodies of 30 victims of his regime's repression were found at a local cemetery. Several coffins had two bodies, a move Pinochet said was "a good cemetery space-saving." 
And this week, he struck again. 
With his characteristic raspy voice, the unrepentant general said many of those killed "were just bandits." 
Aylwin has several times summoned Pinochet to the palace for a reprimand. 
Still, Saturday -Sept. 11 ­will be a legal holiday, as the government has failed to mas­ter a congressional majority to wipe out the Pinochet-issued law that established the holi­day. 
The military has scheduled only low-profile, inside-the bar­racks celebrations, apparently at the request of the govern­ment. Leftist groups are preparing street demonstra­tions, despite a government ban. 
r--------------------------------------,
mbt Nt\ttUorkmtmt6 
DELIVERED FOR ONLY 30 CENTS/DAY MON-SAT! 
( ) MON-FRI $15.90 ( ) MON-SUN $46.30 ( ) MON-SAT $ 18.30 ( ) SUN ONLY $28.00 
Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. 20th & ends Fri., Dec. 10th (No delivery during Fall or Thanksgiving breaks) 
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: CITY NEWS SERVICE 

Clip and mail to: City News Service, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend, IN 46615 
*CALL FOR OUR NEW OFF-CAMPUS DELIVERY RATES! 232-3205 
L--------------------------------------~ 
(313) 995-0581 (formerly Dooley's) 
Bosnian President pleads case for aid before Clinton 
By DONALD ROTHBERG ~iated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Repeated U.S. threats to use force against Serbs and Croats ''cannot be credible for a long time"jfthey are not followedby action, the president of'Bosnia said Thursday. 
Alija Izetbegovic told a news conference that he was satis­fied with President Clinton's commitment to U.S. participa· tion in an international peace­keeping force to be deployed if a peace agreement is reached between the warring factions. 
During a White House meet­ing on Wednesday, Clinton told lzetbegovic that he would want congressional approval before ordering U.S. forces to Bosnia. 
The Bosnian president said he met with members of Congress on Thursday and came away with the belief they would support U.S. participa­tion in a peacekeeping force. 
Izetbegovic said he was ready to resume negotiations with Bosnia Serbs and Croats "as soon as possible." The negotia­tions broke down last week when the Serbs and Croats re­fused to accept Muslim de­mandsfor additional territory. 
···:Qf 
The' Muslim leader was adamant in his refusal to ac~ept r..~y ag~eement that Wl> · · ow the' Serbs to keep ter . . in which· the Muslims say theY were the victims of genoeJq~t,I ethnic cleansing. 
keep insisting these territories will be joined to the Bosnian republic," he said. 
He called the plan approved by the Serbs and Croats "worse than war. It's a question o whether we are dying today or tomorrow." 
last week, the Clinton admin· istration agreed with Izetbe­govic that the Muslims should have about 35 percent of the land, a corridor from Sarajevo to the Adriatic Sea, a larger area around Bihac in the northwest and a corridor be­tween it and a Muslim enclave in the center of the country. 
lzetbegovic apparently failed to get Clinton to set a deadline for the Serbs to end their siege of Sarajevo. 
"President Clinton did not say that he ruled out setting a deadline," said the Bosnian president. "He said it was not up to the United States. That has to be done by NATO." 
Early in August, under strong pressure from the United States. NATO authorized the use of air strikes to force the Serbs to lift the siege, and also to protect humanitarian con­voys and United Nations peace­keepers. 
So far, despite repeated threats, NATO air power has not been used. 
lzetbegovic said the threat o using force was a major factor in the Serbs withdrawal o most of its troops from two strategic mountains Sarajevo. 
But, he said, "threats cannot be credible for a long time i they are not followed by will­ingness to realize them." 


Ann Arbor's #1 Sports Bar 
~JJ(JJ)fil®~~ @f}J&W GJfl 71®8®® GJ~[fi)~U fJJfJ@o~(t}{jj]@ @ctJ~{j] 
The survey and forum find­
Food Specials 
ings indicated the broad range of needs, causing the University 
All your Favorite College Games off 3 Satellites to include certain offerings in new center that the St. Mary's 
Dance Music • Pool Tables • Darts • Air Hockey 

arrange financial contributions for the Palestinians there was  representative would be either · foreign policy adviser Farouk  Israelis, PLO agree on recognition 
"no anticipation this agreement  Kaddoumi or Mahmoud Abbas.  
is going to require U.S. forces"  On a  trip to Cleveland, the  
to safeguard Israel's security.  president called Rabin from Air  By SALAH NASRA WI  think Arafat has sold them out  eventually could give it full  
The ceremony, which will be  Force One and told him: "I am  Associated Press  with half-measures.  diplomatic recognition.  
held on the South Lawn, will  extremely happy that this final­ The agreement on self-rule  Norwegian Foreign Minister  
reflect 25 years of U.S. peace­ ly happened."  TUNIS  could eventually lead to a more  Johan Jorgen Holst, who medi­ 
making efforts in the Middle  Clinton  also  told  Rabin,  Israel  and  the  Palestine  comprehensive autonomy for  ated the deal with the Israelis,  
East, the U.S. officials said.  "Whatever we can do to mini­ Liberation Organization, sworn  Palestinians in lands captured  was  summoned  to  Arafat's  
They confirmed only one invi­ mize the risks, count me in."  enemies for more than a quar­ by Israel in the 1967 war.  headquarters in Tunis to wit­ 
tation - to Russian Foreign  The guest list for the ceremo­ ter-century, agreed Thursday  Even some less radical lead­ ness the nighttime signing of a  
Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev.  ny is apt to be broad, possibly  to recognize each other and  ers of the 29-year-old PLO were  letter from Arafat to Rabin rec- 
Russia is co-sponsor of the  including former President  take a risky path to Arab-Israeli  uncomfortable with the pact,  ognizing Is~.;ael.  I  
peace talks undertaken by the  Carter, who helped put togeth­ peace.  and Arafat won its approval by  Holst was flying overnight to  
Bush administration in October  er  the  1979  peace  treaty  The formal recognition of  an 8-4 vote at a PLO Executive  Israel to witness Rabin's sign­ 
1991  and continued under  between Israel and Egypt, and  each oth.er's right to exist,  Committee  meeting  late  ing  of Israel's  side  of the  
Clinton.  former <s~_c-retary  of  S.tate ·  -worked out in months of secret  Thursday night.  accord, in the form of a letter  


----~-------------~-----~ --~----~--­
Friday, September 10, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mideast signing set for Monday at White House 
Israel and the Palestinians · James Baker, who launched requested the White House as Mideast peace talks 22 months the ceremonial site, a tribute to ago. Foreign ministers from the persistent U.S. efforts to resolve Middle East also have been the Arab-Israeli conflict even invited. 
University of Notre International Study Program 
in
for Notre Dame students who are candidates for 
IffianIF'ltii'§rrrn~ JFunllTI (C <IDIlilililililunJJDn ® rrrr, ®If (C®IIDllnil"lliiDEBJten®IID in the Cetlholic Church 
Informational meeting ... no obligation! 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 

Jerusalem 
Foster Room, 3rd floor LaFortune Spring 1994 6:30p.m. Sponsors for persons 
INFORMATION MEETING 
preparing for baptism or full communion <RCIA) 
7:30p.m. 

Monday, September 13 , 1993
Sponsors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation 

4:30P.M. 202 DeBartolo 
QUESTIONS? 

"Who saw not Jerusalem in its glorycall or visit 
has never seen a beautiful city_•
Kate Barrett Talmud 
Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 631-5242 

AI'I'UCATION IH:AilUNE OCTOIIER 15, 1993 
meetings and a final burst of Arafat, a wide smile on his from Rabin to Arafat. Rabin's round-the-clock bargaining, is face, then announced he had signature was expected at 9 the biggest breakthrough in signed a document recognizing a.m. Friday (3 a.m. EST). -Mideast diplomacy since the the state of Israel. Both letters are in English. 1978 Camp David Agreement Farouk Kaddoumi, whom the On Monday in Washington, that brought peace between PLO considers its foreign minis­the two sides will sign the Israel and Egypt. ter, boycotted the Executive accord on Palestinian autonomy 
Thursday's deal also cleared Committee meeting. in the Gaza Strip and Jericho. the way for a separate pact giv­Sources in Tunis said .Under the recognition agree­ing Palestinians a measure of Kaddoumi objected to winding ment, the PLO: self-rule in the West Bank city down the Palestinian uprising • renounces terrorism of Jericho and in the Gaza in Israeli-occupied territories -• recognizes Israel's right to Strip, occupied by Israel since' a side part of the recognition exist 
·the 1967 Middle East war. agreement-before any tangi­• declares that sections of 
The two pacts are a risk both ble steps have been taken to the PLO convenant that call for for Israeli Premier Yitzhak implement self-rule. -Israel's destruction are "no Rabin, whose government is The Executive Committee was longer valid." under attack by hard-liners to vote Friday on the autonomy For its part, Israel: who reject Arab control of an pact. • recognizes the PLO "as the inch of what they consider the President Clinton called the representative of the biblical land of Israel, and for recognition agreement "a very Palestinian people," a formula­PLO chief Yasser Arafat, brave and courageous thing." tion somewhat weaker than the already threatened with death Clinton is set to announce on PLO's traditional assertion that by Palestinian guerrillas who Friday a resumption of U.S. it is the "sole representative" of want to seize all of Israel and talks with the PLO. Washington the Palestinians. 
The Observer/Brian McDonough

Dining hall alternative 
Keenah Hall resident advisors, Mark Bangasser and Jim Beranek (left to right) prepare a spaghetti din­ner for Keenan Hall and Pasquerilla East Hall freshmen at the Center for Social Concerns. This dinner was given in an attempt to familiarize new students with the facility. 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton is set to an­nounce on Friday renewed U.S. talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization, paving the way for a White House signing on Monday of a historic agreement between Israel and the PLO. 
Administration and congres­sional sources said Clinton's announcement required the signatures of PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin on statements of mutual recogni­tion. Arafat also is renouncing terrorism and accepting Israel's right to exist in the texts already reviewed at the White House and State Department. 
"We are not only hopeful but confident it will be worked out," another senior U.S. offi­cial said Thursday. 
Reporters at the White House also were told that while the United States would try to though the Israel-PLO accord was largely the product of secret talks between the two sides. 
The president will meet first on Friday with congressional leaders. The officials said all that was required to renew talks with the PLO was a state­ment by Clinton. 
The administration informed congressional leaders of its intent to renew talks with the PLO, suspended in 1990 after a terrorist attack on an Israeli beach by a PLO faction. 
Clinton had planned to announce the resumption Thursday evening but put it off until Friday morning to allow Rabin time to sign the agree­ment reached earlier in the day on mutual recognition with the PLO. 
Resuming the U.S.-PLO talks would permit Secretary of State Warren Christopher to deal with the PLO official sent here for the signing ceremony. Nabil Shaath, who is Arafat's chief political adviser, said the PLO 

--~~-~--~-------­
r---~----------.-----~-.~--~--------.-------------~-----------~---------------------~--­
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 10, 1993 
Former Communists vying for Polish comeback 
ByJOHN DANISZEWSKI Associated Press 
WARSAW 
They were run off as scoundrels, the lackeys of a corrupt empire, just four years ago. But now Poland's former Communist rulers seem on the verge of a come­back. 
The latest opinion polls show the reformed Communists stand to benefit the most when the country elects a new parliament on Sept. 19. · 
"A nightmare," groans for­mer Prime Minister Jan Bielecki, a supporter of Poland's market reforms. 
Tired of making sacrifices in the name of reform and uncomfortable with the Catholic Church's conserva· tive agenda, Poles are anxious for a change. 
The election has become a plebiscite on the four years of economic "shock." therapy offered by a string of Solidarity-linked govern­ments. And to use one of President Lech Walesa's favorite images, the Solidarity veterans could be in for a cold shower. 
Walesa pledges to respect the voters' decision even if it means a government of ex­Communists. 
"I would have no other choice," Walesa told the PAP news agency recently. "~ither there is democracy ... or there Is not." 
In 1989, Poland was the first Soviet bloc country to throw out the Communist government, starting the 
· dominoes falling across Eastern Europe. But a reverse trend might 
now be in the making. While 
the old Communist parties are 
gone, their renamed succes­
sors are working hard to take 
advantage of discontent over 
the difficulties of market 
reforms. Former Communists 
were returned to power last 
year in Lithuania. 
Poland, whose bold eco­
nomic reforms were ap­
plauded by the West, now 
boasts the fastest-growing 
economy in the region. But 
the governing parties find 
themselves on the defensive 
because people's expectations 
have not been met. 
Bielecki ticks off the roll of 
the disgruntled: farmers want 
bigger subsidies, retirees 
want higher pensions, public 
employees and workers in 
state industry want more 
money and security. Even 
those doing wen under the 
new system, he said, feel they 
ought to be doing better by 
now. 
Unless something changes 
before Election Day, the ex­
Communists and other parties 
critical of market reforms 
could rack up 70-80 percent 
in a mass protest vote, he ·predicted. 
"We are optimistic,'' said 39-year-old party leader Aleksander Kwasniewski, in charge of youth and sports in the last Communist govern· ment. "Anti-government reaction . . . is increasing very quickly." 
The ex-Communists say they've changed. They style themselves as Social Democrats believing in free enterprise with generous social support of the needy. To pay for it, they promise to crack down on tax evasion and corruption. 


Enter to win a Fun Makeover and Photo Session! Mail your entry to: Beauty, Elegance & Style Contest 
P. 0. Box 4698, S. Bend, IN 46634 by September 30, 1993. NAME 
ADDR=Es~S~------------------­

-r 1ft' ... .. 
UN troops fire on Somali mob 
By REID MILLER 
Associated Press 

MOGADISHU 
American Cobra Helicopters fired on Somali women and children Thursday in what the United Nations claimed was a "last-resort" effort to keep them from killing peacekeep­ers. 
Nearby residents said the street was littered with the bodies of as many as 100 So­malis. A U.N. spokesman said a Pakistani soldier was killed and three Americans and two Pak­istanis were injured. 
The peacekeepers had come under fire from heavy weapons by Somali militiamen and were trying to withdraw when women and children joined in the attack with grenades and small arms, said Maj. David Stockwell. 
Stockwell, the chief U.N. mili­tary spokesman, initially said a mob of women and children was swarming over the U.N. vehicles when the helicopters fired on them with 20mm can­nons. 
Later, however, he said the women and children had joined militiamen in attacking the sol­diers from behind walls lining the route of their withdrawal and were clambering over roadblocks in their way. 
"The women and children were combatants," Stockwell said. 
"When the helicopters came in they shot at the gunmen be­hind the walls, and the women and children who were actively engaged as combatants as well," Stockwell said. "Whoever was behind the walls was shot at. 
"There were some people swarming on the roadblocks, but not directly on the vehicles ... and the helicopters shot down the middle of the road to persuade people to leave," Stockwell said. 
The incident was sure to fire the debate in the U.S. Congress over American involvement in Somalia and to add fuel to the arguments of some U.N. mem­bers, notably Italy, that the United Nations has lost sight of its humanitarian mission in the country. 
Stockwell blamed the attack on the forces of fugitive warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid, wanted by the United Nations for a series of assaults that have killed 48 peacekeepers and wounded more than 175 since May. 
Stockwell said he had no in­formation on the number of Somalis killed or wounded, but told reporters, "What I am ac­knowledging is that if you go out there tomorrow, you may find some women and children casualties." 
The report of scores of Soma­lis killed could not be indepen­dently confirmed. But Stockwell acknowledged that U.N. troops and tanks, a~mored personnel carriers and helicopters used "heavy casualty-producing weapons" in defending them­selves. 
The U.S. Senate is debating whether to push for an end to America's Somalia involvement, which was initiated to ensure delivery of humanitarian aid and restore stability to the east African nation stricken by drought, famine and anarchy. 
Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Thursday that U.S. troops should stay in Somalia "for the foreseeable future" to ensure the success of the U.N. opera­tion there and to preserve America's credibility. 

P R I:'\ C I P L E S of S 0 L' :'\ D RETIRE,,\ E ;'\ T I:'\\' EST I:'\ G 
IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF THROUGH RETIREMENT. 

T
hink about supporting yourself for twenty-five, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, you have one valuable asset in your favor. Time. 
Time to take advantage of tax-deferral. Time for your money to grow. 
But starting early is key. Consider this: ifyou begin saving just $wo a month at age thirty, you can accumulate $172,109* by the time you reach age sixty-five. Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside $219 a month to reach the same goal. 
At TIAA-CREF, we not only under­stand the value of starting early, we can help make it possible-with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of investment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 7 5 years. 
Over a million people in education and research are already enrolled in America's largest retirement system. Find out how easy it is to join them. Call today and learn how simple it is to put yourself through retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. 
Startpklnningyourfuture. CRll our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 
75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:" 


*A,r,rumin9 1111 t'tlltrt.rl rtllt 4 i.Otl% atthtrJ "' TIAA Rdirmun/ rl11nuitir.•·. Thi.r rtllf' i.r tutrJ .rolr(v lit .rbttu•tht pt•u•trtZm) t((td ofttmlpt1Uitdir~IJ. f~tlu•tr t'r b~btr f'lllt.r u•t~u!tl prt'tluu ••try tl~{/~rml ruult.t. CREF art~ltnl/t.rtlrt tli.rtrihulttl h.v TIAA-L'REF huJi~·,(hwl "ml ln.rtilull(mal Str••,(·t,r. 

---. ~~---.---~ 
Friday, September 10, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Spending doesn't equal results in American schools 
By ROBERT NAYLOR JR. "Report Card on American cent of American adults have tied for first place in eighth­lenging courses and well-man­Associated Press Education." such poor reading, writing and grade math scores, was second aged schools. "You don't spend your way to computing skills that they can't in the percentage of ninth­"I think that the most impor­WASHINGTON education achievement," said perform tasks any more diffi­grade students who graduated tant conclusion that comes 
Spending is up but achieve­William J. Bennett, who was cult than filling out a bank in 1990-91 and second in SAT from the data is that standards, ment isn't in America's schools, secretary of education in the deposit slip or locating an inter­scores for 1993. But it ranked academic rigor and targeted showing that money alone Reagan Administration. section on a street map. 44th in 1992-93 in per pupil resources pay off," she said. won't solve education woes, a "I know it's fashionable to The study showed that 10 expenditures. group representing state legis­talk about under investment in states, most of them in the The District of Columbia, with The study also found that: lators said Thursday. education, but as our study Midwest, lead the nation in all the fifth highest per pupil • States with the highest per­
A study by the American confirms, we've invested and measures of student perfor­expenditure, ranked 42 in centages of black and Hispanic Legislative Exchange Council invested heavily in education," mance, including mathematics eighth-grade math proficiency, students and have the highest said overall education spending said Samuel Brunelli, director achievement test results, grad­50th in graduation rate, and percentages of child poverty increased 4 7 percent and per of the council and president of uation rates and scores on the 49th ion SAT scores. are among those that have student outlays were up 62 per­The ALEC Foundation. "This SAT and ACT. The 10 states are C. Emily Feistritzer, who con­made the greatest gains in stu­cent since 1973, with both fig­investment has not paid off in Iowa, North Dakota, Minnesota, ducted the study, said the dent performance in the last 20 ures adjusted for inflation. terms of student achievement." Nebraska, Wisconsin, Idaho, results show that smaller years. 
But scores on college ALEC is a nationwide organi­Utah, Wyoming, Kansas and schools -those with fewer • States with the lowest entrance examinations -the zation of some 2,700 state law­South Dakota. The study said than 300 students -and not ranking SAT scores have had Scholastic Aptitude Test and makers, about two-third of also that all of the states, necessarily smaller classes are some of the largest gains in the the American College Test -whom are Republicans. except Wisconsin, are far from a key component of a good last 10 years. have shown only modest The group released its study the top ranks in per-pupil learning environment. Also • The biggest growth in staff increases and dropout rates are a day after the Department of expenditures. necessary, she said, are high over the last 20 years was in up, the group said in its Education reported that 4 7 per-For instance North Dakota expectations of students, chal-non-teaching positions. 

Reagan planned to trick Soviets 
Today's Diane's birthday, we do not jest. 
Our youngest sister is really the best. 
By ROBERT BURNS Next week when we're there, we'll tailgate and toast, 
Associated Press Writer 

But in the meantime here's hoping for a Wolverine Roast. 
WASHINGTON 
The Reagan administration developed a secret plan in 1983 to deceive the Soviet Union about U.S. progress in anti-mis­sile defenses but was unable to use the trickery, Defense Secretary Les Aspin disclosed Thursday. 
Aspin said the plan was so secret that Congress was not informed. He said it was not il­legal then to keep Congress in the dark but that today it would be. 

··························································­

• Cfass Cruise on Lakf. Michigan %ursda9, September 16tfi 
rrickf.ts: $25.00 (inc[udes food and beverages) 
•
•
•
•
• f!'ickf.ts go on safe tfiis MondaJ at tlie La!fortune
•
•
•
• 
information desk:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
•
• 
• • 'Don't Miss Out!
• •
•
•
1 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opporiUnltJ. In ciiiiOSJU• wtew ~
:::'= 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS 
September 7-13 
AVAILABLE: 
at4:00p.m . 

SIGN UP 
September 13-4:00 p.m. 
DEADUNE: 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Ubrary 
631-7800 
COST: $25.00 
Aspin made the disclosure in reporting the results of a De­fense Department inquiry into allegations of deception and fraud in a June 10, 1984, Army ballistic missile defense exper­iment. The allegations were contained in an Aug. 18 New York Times report. 
The inquiry concluded that the 1984 test was not rigged, Aspin said, but that a deception plan linked to the Army's anti­missile work and aimed at the Soviet Union did exist, as the Times reported in its story last month. 
The deception plan was de­veloped for use in a series of four flight tests of the Homing Overlay Experiment, an Army project to demonstrate that an interceptor missile equipped with an infrared sensor could hit and destroy a mock war­head in space. 
To deceive the Soviets, the Pentagon placed an explosive charge aboard the mock war­head, which was carried atop a Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missile launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. 
If the interceptor passed near the warhead but did not hit it, the charge would be detonated, creating an explosion that would make Soviet observers think there was a direct hit, Aspin said. At that time, no na­tion had ever managed to de­liberately hit a missile with a missile. 
The first three flight tests in 1983 encountered technical problems and the interceptor did not come close enough to the target to permit detonation of the secret charge, Aspin said. 
Aspin gave no reason why the charge was not activated in the fourth and final test, but a senior Defense Department of­ficial, speaking on condition he not be identified, said the de­ception program was canceled before the fourth test. 
The official said that as far as could be determined, no other deception programs were used in connection with the ballistic missile defense effort. 
This took place before Presi­dent Reagan gave what became known as his "Star Wars" speech March 23, 1983, in which he announced the Strategic Defense Initiative, or SDI, a crash program to de­velop a non-nuclear defense against ballistic missiles. 
The organization that ran Star Wars programs was set up in 1984. Aspin reorganized it last spring and discarded the SDI designation. 





BUSINESS 
page 10 Friday, September 10, 1993 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
ast employees threaten to strike today NEWYORK . 
Editors and reporters threatened a strike today at the New York Post, a move that could finally push the tabloid over the edge. The Newspaper Guild 
of New York set a 6 p.m. deadline for an agree­ment with Rupert Murdoch. who has been negoti­ating with the Post's unions on givebacks as he tries to put together a deal to buy the paper and take it out of bankruptcy. Murdoch said in July that he would drop his bid to acquire the nation's oldest continuously published daily if he doesn't win agreements quickly. As of Wednesday, he had settled with four of 10 unions at the 192­year-old paper. 
.ity tries to force cable competition 
MISHAWAKA 

TCI of Michlana could be forced to share its ca· ble lines with competing companies ifa city ordi­nance stands. The ordinance approved in a 5-3 vote Tuesday night would require TCI to allow other companies to provide cable service over its fiber-optic lines in exchange for a usage fee. Supporters say that would end the monopolies enjoyed by most c~le companies, but opponents argue it is unconstitutional. "Any time that the government thinks they can come in and take over your business to loan it to other people is a problem," Rick Tuttle, general manager of TCI of Michiana, said Wednesday. A federal judge's rul­ing last month could wipe out cable monopolies by allowing telephone companies into the cable TV business. 

Christmas may beat out Halloween in early store promotions this year as retailers try to get a head start on the holiday shopping season, a Ball State analyst says. James Lowry, a marketing profes­sor, says shoppers should expect to see Santa Claus and his elves promoting holiday goodies several weeks before Halloween. Ideally, retailers would like most of their merchandise gone before the traditional shopping season begins in late November, Lowry said. Lowry predicts sales dur­ing the extended shopping season to be slightly above 1992 levels. Sales at department stores will be up between 3 percent and 5 percent, while discount store sales will he up 7 percent to 9 per· cent, he predicted. 
Pressure on Clinton to promote NAFTA 
By KAREN BALL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congressional backers of a pro­posed continent-wide free trade pact admit they're losing the public rela­tions battle and say President Clinton needs to step up efforts to salvage the treaty. 
"The time is coming that he's going to have to do a better job of selling it," said Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., a key supporter of the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
"This has turned into a populist, negative and erroneous campaign against NAFTA," he said. 
As Congress returned from its August break, supporters pledged an all-out campaign to gain momentum for the treaty, which would create the world's largest free trade zone by removing virtually all barriers to trade and investment among the United States, Canada and Mexico. 
Lawmakers said they, like the president, were at fault for letting opponents cast the treaty as a free­wheeling deal that would prompt a mass exodus of U.S. jobs to Mexico, so American companies could take advantage of lax wage and environ­mental standards. 

"The opponents had the ball, and got us back to the five-yard line," conceded Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fia., who like other supporters contend expanded markets will ultimately boost the U.S. standard of living and create American jobs. 
The House, where the pact's chances are considered more iffy than the Senate, will take the issue up first and could vote by late October, supporters said Wednesday. 
With about two months to go, each side was courting the huge crop of undecideds. Opponents said their head count of the 435-member House turned up about 60 un­committeds; supporters said they tal­lied about 85 members on the fence. 
An informal survey by The Associated Press of about two dozen House members showed about a half-dozen undecided, and the rest about evenly split for and against. 
Danforth said he was most con­cerned that Clinton, in order to win over NAFTA opponents. would have to wheel and deal -like he did on the budget -and might try to tack 
Low interest rates fuel surging Indiana housing market 
Associated Press cates the higher level of price that sell­
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Mortgage interest rates at an unprecedented low are fueling the Indiana housing market and led to a nearly 10 percent rise in the median Indiana home price during second quarter, analysts said today. 
More than $1 billion in home sales was recorded in Indiana during the 

'=:::::==================-'April-June period, when the medianDaily market roundup price rose 9.7 percent to $73,500, up from $67,000 during the same period a y~ar ago, according to a report released today by the Indiana Association of Realtors and the Indiana University Center for Real Estate Studies. The median home price during the first quarter was $68,000. "Unprecedented interest rates have motivated buyers to enter the market," said Wanda Grabner, president of the Realtors group. "These new buyers are raising the value of homes on the mar­ket. That's good news for sellers." Nationally, the second-quarter medi­an home price rose 3.3 percent to $106,500, compared with $103,100 during the year-ago period and $103,600 in the first quarter. "The large amount of volume in the state not only indicates that there are many buyers out there, but it also indi­


ers are getting for their individual homes," Grabner said. 
The average interest rate for all loans closed for existing homes during the second quarter was a 23-year low of 7.3 percent. It compared with 8.8 percent a year earlier. 
"Because interest rates are low, peo­ple can buy more house, also," Grabner said. "Consequently, when they start figuring their monthly pay­ment and find it is going to be lower that they expected, in many cases they decide to buy a more expensive home." 
Jeffrey Fisher, director of the IU cen­ter, said "it's hard to imagine interest rates falling much further." 
"Of course. mortgage rate are going to move in the same direction as inter­est rates move in general, since most mortgagees are sold in the secondary market," Fisher said. 
"Some economists are saying that with the deficit reduction plan, interest rates could move down slightly more during the next few weeks," Fisher said. "Certainly, anybody that hasn't refinanced recently and has a rate that is significantly above the existing rate ought to consider refinancing." 
Home construction activity in Indiana has been weak over the past year, cre­ating more upward pressure on exist­ing home prices, Fisher added. 
Government weighs ban on Lorenzo from airline business 
By JAMES H. RUBIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Transportation Department is weigh­ing an administrative law judge's declara­tion that Frank Lorenzo's disdain for rules disqualifies him from returning to the air­line business. 
ATX Inc., the proposed discount airline headed by the banished leader of two major carriers, has defied judicial orders and has filed "frivolous and vexatious" motions in its application for federal approval. said Judge Richard Barton Jr. of the Transportation Department. 
"If, as I have found, ATX cannot be trust­ed to comply with the department and the judge's orders during the course of this proceeding. it certainly cannot be trusted to comply with federal Jaws regulating the transportation of passengers and cargo," Barton said Wednesday. 
Barton's findings are likely to carry great weight with department officials who gave no indication when they may rule. 
Richard Danforth. a spokesman for Lorenzo, said, "The recommendation is fundamentally and thoroughly wrong. We're absolutely confident the Department of Transportation will refuse to follow the recommendation." 
"We take exception that because he doesn't like our courtroom demeanor we are not fit to even have a hearing," Danforth said. 
Lorenzo proposed in March to launch Friendship Airlines -later renamed ATX Inc. ~ along the East Coast. He controls 77 percent of the new carrier. 
ATX proposed to fly between the Baltimore-Washington area, Boston and Atlanta. 
Barton presided at hearings in June but adjourned them before completion, warn­ing he would throw out Lorenzo's bid unless there was more cooperation from ATX. 


In a 63-page decision. Barton said ATX had demonstrated adequate financial fit­ness and managerial competence. 
But, he said, the carrier "has not shown proper compliance disposition," a phrase he used to describe the Lorenzo-led air­line's refusal to abide by his orders. 
James Linsey, a lawyer for the Air Line Pilots Association that led the opposition to Lorenzo's application. welcomed the judge's decision. 
"It's a hopeful sign for the '90s that the labor warfare of the '80s may be passed," he said. "Just as the controllers were rehired, Frank is retired." 
The Clinton administration last month lifted the hiring ban imposed by President Reagan on air traffic controllers fired 12 years ago for striking. 
' (. 
issues onto the treaty such as legis­lation that bans strikebreakers, which could woo pro-union lawmak­ers. 
"We would be gone instantly," Danforth said of GOP support. "But assuming the administration doesn't give away the store to get that sup­port, I think it can pass." 
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor has pledged the president's full commitment. Appearing on CNN's "Larry King Live" Wednesday night -a day after Ross Perot appeared on the show to assail NAFTA -he said those opposing NAFTA "fundamentally don't believe American workers can compete." 
Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., who is leaning toward voting for the pact, said supporters had lost the public relations campaign because "it's been an easy one to lose. Jobs are at stake, people are at risk." 
Opponents include many of the union and environmental groups that helped elect Clinton, and the trade pact prompts emotional appeals from constituents afraid of losing their jobs. For that reason. it's not expected to be a party-line issue and has lawmakers in both party supporting and opposing it. 
Notre Dame MBA program ranked in top 20 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
Business Writer 
"Business Week" magazine has selected the Notre Dame MBA program as one of the top 20 "innovative" business schools in the country because of the program's novel approach to international busi­ness and ethics. according to Larry Ballinger, director of the MBA program. 
"Business Week" conducts an annual survey with the help of leading corporate recruiters. who offer reports on the top 20 business schools. The re­cruiters. according to "Business Week," took six fac­tors into account. 
The factors in the ratings in­clude the school's average scores on the Graduate Man­agement Admissions Test, the number of applicants accepted to the school, the annual tuition at the school, scholar­ship support offered by the school, the percentage of stu­dents offered positions upon graduation, and the average starting pay of the school's graduates. 
In these evaluations, the magazine interviewed the Chief Executive Officers of various corporations, asking them to "rate" school's based on the given criteria as well as their experience with graduates of various schools according to Ballinger. · 
The Notre Dame MBA pro­gram was probably recognized as innovative because its inter­national program goes beyond top quality exchange programs, he said. Notre Dame's interna­tional program has established international student exchange programs in England, Chile, the Netherlands, Japan, and as of next year, Poland, according to Ballinger. 
Efforts to promote an ethical approach to business education also contributed to the favor­able recognition, he said. A course in ethics is required of all graduates, and two elective ethics classes are offered ac­cording to Ballinger. 
! ,I, 

-----~~----------­


VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 10, 1993 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor .•.............. Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .•....•............. George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....... , ......................... Jake Perers OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych ControUer ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent! Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Businc:ss Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
GARY CARUSO CAPITOL COMMENTS 
A warning shot to those who Freshman Clinton has potential defy football stadium security 
GARY CARUSO mentality usually prevails when Clinton is like no other presi­Dear Editor: training with this equipment Capitol Comments it affects a specific issue like dent in our history. He consis­and crowd control. The cost including gays in the military, tently presses the flesh of the I have some concerns for this will no doubt result in a Notre Dame freshmen and allowing family planning clinics public. Last month he visited tuition increase, but students
about an incident at last 
freshwomen (let's be politically to discuss all options available the Capitol to lobby for his eco­Saturday's game. I am dis­shouldn't mind. After all, the correct, especially since this to women, or initiating a family nomic plan with Members of 
turbed and disappointed that University obviously protects its president tries to include ev­leave policy. Congress. 
the middle-aged miscreant who meager financial assets from eryone in his administration) caught and tried to keep the unjust infringements by fans,have a lot in common with Bill Just as I learned how to He arrived across the street ball that Northwestern kicked parents, students, and faculty
Clinton. Both have begun a new guide myself on campus by from my office, but decided to life unlike anything they could using Mary's stance on the walk around the barricades wide on its first extra-point at­solely for its students' sake. have expected. They are naive, dome, Clinton has learned how and shake our hands. (Of tempt was not dealt with more well-intentioned, unfamiliar to maneuver around the corri­course I used the last frame in harshly. We can't let some fan keep with their new surroundings, dors of the Pentagon on the my camera when his motor­a $100 football just because it and immature. Yet they both Gays in the military issue. He cade arrived!) While the public This episode clearly goes into the stands. Anyone have tremendous potential, and also learned how to relate with has not formulated a perma­demonstrates the need for the who doesn't understand this will undoubtedly be successful the White House press corps, nent impression of him to date, stadium's ushers and security just isn't in tune with the true in time. which delight in their bulldog this "people approach" will character of the University. 
guards to be equipped with
roles. Recently, he steered his make him a credible president nightsticks and even for theMy freshmen day on Notre budget legislation to a one vote in time, much more so than ushers to carry sidearms in David Horan Dame's campus was a night­win in both chambers of George Bush. 

case such an incident should Stanford Hall 
mare. I walked past Morrissey, Congress. Clinton has wiggled Three more years is long arise again. Naturally, the ush­Sept. 8, 1993 
through the arch at Howard out of his first few jams with enough to make a presence felt and headed toward the Golden success. in our economy. However, this ers and guards should receive Dome. Somehow I ended up , freshman president cannot near the library and was hope­Like any university, the Clin­undo over night what took lessly lost. Returning to the ton Administration has settled twelve years to create. But I dome, I found myself near down to it's first few months of predict that by his senior year Lewis Hall and could not figure freshmen classroom learning. in this term he will have made out the direction to the Book­Football season opened for a positive and substantial im­store. I learned quickly how to Clinton when he used military pact on our way of life. tell north from south depending intervention in Iraq. He won on how Mary was standing that game in the public opinion My only concern is that he above the Golden Dome. polls, but the season is young. avoid the pitfalls of every fresh­
Look for him to beat the odds man, parties and tailgaters. 

Clinton's first few months in makers' lines on most issues After all, I remember being told office has been as traumatic. this year despite the public's that during the Navy weekend He campaigned on the issues of inherent distrust of govern­in my freshman year, I was reform and inclusiveness in ment. found in my underwear -one government. That meant in­shoe on, one shoe off -going in cluding those who traditionally My suggestion to the presi­a circle trying to "walk orr· a have been discriminated dent is to continue to take the tailgater success! Bill doesn't against in varying degrees tough stands. For too long we need those kinds of successes, throughout our society. It have been lulled to sleep by and I told him so as I rewound meant an end to government Reagan while the debt soared the film in my camera intrusion into the private lives to record heights. Bush was a of Americans, a favorite topic caretaker president, making Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame of conservative far right. the transition from the older '73 works in Washington, D.C. 
generation to a modern one as a desktop publishing spe­Ideally , those tasks should be represented by Bill Clinton and cialist for the House of 
for freedom loving people like AI Gore. The new style form the Representatives. His column Americans, supported without White House is quite no­appears every other Friday. question. However, a red neck ticeable. 
DOONESBURY 


I'M 5Qii?R.Y 
fOR lAYING AU. JH!s av YOU,MIK/3. I /J//JN'T KNOtu /,(J/f)fi-S/370 
TAil< 7(}... 
8ESIC6, We HAV&N'T SEeN YOU IN A WH/1.£. YOU WANT 
7D CATCH A 8A5&13AU-GAM& 
TWAY? YOU5TIU..UKE 5POF<T5, /A:JN'T Ya.J?! 
~ 

"Ifthou darest tread in pri­mal soup, please wipeth from thy shoes." 
-Trey Anastasio 



friday 
events 

Alumni Senior Club Volleyball Tournament, 9 p.m., cash prizes and free t-shirts. Men's soccer vs. Butler, 7:30p.m., Alumni Field (adja­cent to Ivy Road). 
Crack-ups Comedy Cafe, Pat Francis and Bob Rumba, SMC Dining Hall, 9-11 p.m., $2. 
music 

Club 23, Flesh Relics, 10 p.m. 
saturday 

events 

Michigan Game Bus Trip, leaves 6 a.m., C.C.E., tickets $15 at LaFortune Student Center Information Desk, Donuts and juice provided. 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan, kick-off 1:35 p.m., Ann Arbor time. Biathlon, 1/2 mile swim and 2 mile run, 10:30 a.m., St. Joe beach, sponsored by RecSports. 
Slllday 

events 

Arts and Crafts show, North Village Mall, 9 a.m.-5p.m. 
Misa En Espanol, in memory of Cesar Chavez, 11:30 a.m., The Grotto. Rain Site Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 

Dl s.ll. Apocalypse Now, Fri. & Sat., 7, 10 
~Indecent Proposal, Fri. & Sat., 7, 9:30 
llllvnlly Pn East 
True Romance 7, 9:35 Undercover Blues 7:20, 9:20 Needful Things 7, 9:30 Rising Sun 7:15, 9:30 The Firm 8 Fortress 7:30, 9:30 Jurassic Park 7:15, 9:45 
llllnrllty Pn WISt 
Real McCOy 7, 9:30 Hard Target 7:15, 9:30 Manhattan Murder Mystery 7, 9:20 
The Observer • ETC. Friday, September 10, 199 3 

By ELISABETH HEARD 
Assisant Accent Ediwr 

A
fter several hours ofserious road tripping and a few more at the football stadium. most fans are either going to be tired, hungry or ready to celebrate (or maybe drowned their sorrows) after the Notre Dame vs. Michigan game. 
Here's every student's handy-dandy guide to invading Michigan's territory and making the Notre Dame presence known. 
Embassy Hotel, located at 200 E. Huron St. Prices range around $40 a night. Call 313-662­7100 for reservations or information. Remember that hotels close to the school might be hard to book at the last minute. 
Bell Tower Hotel, located at 300 S. Thayer St. A little more expensive with prices of $94 for a single and $12 for each additional person. Call 313-769-3010. 
Regency Campus Inn, located at 615 E. Huron St. Prices charge $95 for a single and $105 for a double. Facilities include a jacuzzi/sauna, outdoor pool and exercise equip­ment. Call313-769-2200. 
If your wallet won't allow the Bell Tower or the Regency, within ten minutes of campus. ranging from $30-$65, are: 
Best Western Wolverine Inn, located at 3505 S. State St. Inn provides a jacuzzi/sauna. A single is $44.95 per night and a double is $48.95 per night. Call 313-665-3500. 
Motel 6, located at 3764 S. State St. Outdoor pool included in price. They charge $31.99 for a single per night and $37.99 for a double per nigb-t. Call 313-665-9900. 
Hoj o Inn, located at 2424 Stadium Blvd. Also provides an outdoor pool. They charge $60.00 for a single and $65.00 for a double per night. Call 313-971-8000. 
With a little more cash and a lot less beer, one can spend the night just ten minutes from cam­pus for $45-$70 at: 
Comfort Inn, located 2455 Carpender Rd. Jacuzzi/sauna and indoor pool included in price range of$60-67. Call 313-973-6100. 
Fairfield Inn. located at 3285 Boardwalk. 
Also provides jacuzzi/sauna, indoor pool and exercise equipment. Rates are $42.95-51.95. Call 313-995-5200. 
Hampton Inn North, located at 2300 Green Rd. Inn offers Jacuzzi/sauna, indoor pool and exercise equipment. Room prices are $65. Call313-996-4444. 
Hampton Inn South, located at 925 Victors Way. Jacuzzi/sauna, indoor pool and exercise equipment also included. A room costs $65. Call 313-665-5000. 
Holiday Inn East, located at 3750 Washtenaw Ave. Provides an outdoor pool, and all for just $63-70. Call 313-971-2000. 
Days Inn, located at 2380 Carpenter Rd. Offers a jacuzzi/sauna and indoor pool at the low price of$79. Call313-971-0700. 
For those of you who do have an old friend's place or Ryder truck to crash in and are only worried about the list of party spots, it's long as well. 
The most popular Michigan student party spots include: 
Rick's, Good Time Charlie's, and O'Sullivan's. Both Rick's and Good Time Charlie's are on Church Street while O'Sullivan's is on South University. 
Additional places to get a few beers and listen to various types of music for those 21 years of age are: The Apartment Lounge, 220 Fuller Road and The Nectarine Ballroom, 510 East Liberty. The Bird of Paradise, 5207 South Ashley and The Blind Pig, 208 South First Street both feature live jazz. 
A live band can be found at City Limits, 2900 Jackson Road and The Habitat, 3050 Jackson Road. If you're in to Top 40, a DJ will be work­ing at R B MbBayens, 611 Church Street. To fall back into the 50's and 60's, Reunions, 3200 Boardwalk is the place to go. 
And for those who are country at heart Aubree's Saloon, 39 East Cross Street in Ypsilanti is the place to do the two-step. 
Great food can be found at Pizzeria Uno. a favorite student hangout, right down the street from O'Sullivan's on South University. Along with a warm atmosphere, patrons will also enjoy original deep-dish Chicago style pizza, plus soups, salads, sandwiches and burgers. 
Friday, September I 0, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 13 
•


Notre Dame Club ofAnn Arbor welcomes NDfans 

By ELISABETH HEARD Assisant Accent Editor 
University of Michigan 
n Arbor has become "enemy terriortory" for the Irish 
ately. But luckily a few folks are here to make Notre arne fans feel a bit more at easy during their stay in 
instills new policies
Michigan. 
The Notre Dame Club of Ann Arbor will sponsor a variety of events the weekend of Notre Dame vs. Michigan. 
By ELISABETH HEARD who plan to party after the they have systems for making
The organization was founded in 1980 by a handful of local 
Assistant Accent Editor game. In the past, some of the sure that underage drinking
Notre Dame alumni. Since then, they've grown to over 100 active 
bars in the surrounding area does not take place," said
members. 
M
any students remem­would allow people who were Harper. "The Greeks do this
In the spirit of Notre Dame, they have kept up the tradition of 
ber the incident two underage to enter. even though because they are liable, espe­
community service and support with such activities as "Christmas 
years ago when Notre they still could not drink. Now cially if someone gets hurt."
in April" and an immunization fair for local children. 
Dame last played University of students cannot even get in if Another minor change is from 
This year they have organized several events for this weekend, 
Michigan in Ann Arbor. they are not 21, said Harper. 9:00 p.m. until closing, one
all geared towards helping Notre Dame fans enjoy themselves not 
Overcrowded bars and an The other main change is in needs I.D. in order to get into
only during, but also before and after the game. 
excess of drunken, rowdy stu­order to enter a party at any of the student union.
The pep rally will fire up Friday evening from 8 p.m. to midnight 
dents on the streets caused the the Greek houses, one must "These policies are not a
at the Holiday Inn-North Campus, located at 3600 Plymouth Road. 
Ann Arbor police to resort to have a University of Michigan direct result of what happened
For additional information contact Marcia McBrien at (517) 374­
tear gas in order to try to sub­I.D. or be a guest of a member two years ago," said Harper.
6200. 
due riotous civilians. This year, of the house. "The student union policy is
Notre Dame alumni clubs of Michigan will sponsor a tailgater 
Ann Arbor is not looking for a "They (the houses) are trying about one and half years old
on Saturday, which will begin at Pioneer High School two hours 
repeat of the past scenario. to have a better relationship and the Greeks have been
before the game. For additional information contact Jerry McKay 
"Since Notre Dame has been with the neighbors, and are try­working on their alcohol policy
at (313) 451-8835. 
here last there has been a lot of ing to not have so many people for the past two and half years.
On Sunday there will be a mass and a continental breakfast both 
changes," said E. Royster around and on the lawn," said All of this has just now come
held at the Holiday Inn-North Campus at 10 a.m. Contact John 
Harper, associate vice presi­Harper. together."
Spittler at (313) 769-0530 for additional information. 
dent of Student Affairs and The Greek houses are no These new rules will hopeful­
Organizers of these festivities are prepared to show NO fans a 
dean of Students at University longer allowed to have open ly make the weekend a peaceful
good time. 
of Michigan. kegs, and the policy is BYOB and fun time for everyone. "It's
Students are encouraged to make the trip even if they do not 
The university has developed (Bring Your Own Beer). Once not that we're being inhos­
have tickets. If they cannot find tickets on the streets (sometimes 
two new rules which will great­inside the houses, underage pitable, but it's just that things
even sold at face value), fans can always clump together in local 
ly affect Notre Dame students students cannot drink, "and have changed," said Harper.
restaurants or bars to enjoy the game. 
TO MICHIGAN ­
between #11 Notre Dame and #3 Michigan in Ann Arbor? Ea!steJ't},;f)laliii!\J'ime~;o the kickoff is at 11:10 a.m. South Bend time-and without an Irish victory! 
DIRECTIONS: 

Take U.S. 31/U.S. 33 north to the stoplight at Cleveland Road. Turn left, following U.S. 31 to join U.S. 31 Bypass, which will end by bumping into U.S.31/U.S.33 (which jogged all over the map through towns in the interim). U.S. 31 ends at Interstate 94, but veering onto Interstate 196 (which is well marked by signs) is faster. Once on Interstate 94, continue past U.S. 131 (Kalamazoo) an.d Interstate 69 ~Battle Creek). After passing all ex1ts to Jackson, s1gns for State Road 14 will appear frequently. Stay in the right lanes to avoid this turnoff, after which signs to the University of Michigan Stadium will appear immediately. Take exit 175, which accesses Saline Rd. Turn onto Main St., which leads to the Stadium. 
... 
No one can walk away from the Christian faith 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od 

Sean is a big, good-looking Irish kid, half-way through Notre Dame. On a night-boat crossing the English Channel from Cherbourg, France, to Portsmouth, England, last spring, he told me he has given up on the Catholic religion. 
The announcement left me feeling emotionally whip­lashed, as though the "Pride of Cherbourg," which was hustling us toward Albion, had just struck an iceberg, and I were the only one on deck to sing "Nearer, My God, to Thee." Sean's scuttling of his Catholic faith seemed like a terrible waste of the Truth that can make men free. 
The thought of Big O'Brien giving up on Christ as the Light that failed made me feel like crying. I'm not especially broad-minded, and I do not believe that one religion is as good as another. 
I do subscribe to the idea of one great world-myth of Death and Transfiguration, having the Cross and Easter as its cen­terpiece. This doesn't entitle Mohammed or Buddha to tell Christ in His glory to move over on his pedestal. 
The lad Sean didn't seem despondent over his lost faith; in fact, he appeared delighted to have doubts about the One True Church. Window-shopping for a Creed to swear by-after years of being brain-washed in the Catholic schools-must have felt to him like one of the delights of being young in the springtime. 
We sat there arguing and 

could not outgrow the habits of a Catholic conscience. 
Asked early on if he would become a Protestant, he an­swered that it was his faith he had lost, not his mind; and he refused to receive the Communion Host, to please his suffering mother on her death bed. He was superstitious enough to fear that a thousand years of veneration might have turned the Eucharist into an object of faith that could leave him damned. 
The closest chum I had in col­lege entered a seminary after graduation. Leaving, after a row with the priests, he made a break with the Church which was formalized when he mar­ried a woman who had under­gone a divorce. After that, he never set foot in a church for twenty-five years, though deep down inside, his Catholic con­science must have been nag­ging him. 
Then one evening, he phoned me with a cry for help: I don't know the worth of anything that the popes have been doing. I only know that I can't contin­ue living without Holy Communion. Can you come here and help me get back to Communion?" 
It was worth being ordained just to give my friend back his peace of mind. As my college roommate, he taught me the worth of the Eucharist when I'd only been a Catholic for less than a year. 
Sean, my friend, can we talk? Have I violated your trust by writing this piece? How else could I get the undivided atten­tion of a BMOC who walks at midnight with his groupies like a Hollywood star? 
I'm unhappy about the leak­age of young Catholics from the Church. Perhaps I should encourage you to follow the path of the heart's desire, but I would prefer to see you home before dark, in a place where your name is written in the Lamb's Book of Life. 
To tell you the truth, you left me angry that night on the Channel when you spoke of quitting as Christ's disciple. Perhaps, if we talk, I'll be angry again, if you mention running out on Him as a prayer-partner. All I'm asking for is a chance to continue the conversation which was left unfinished at three in the morning because you needed to sleep. 
After you went to bed, I climbed to the upper deck of the Cherbourg to count the stars. but there were no stars. All I could see was the coming of the light. I prayed for you in the dawnlight, and I've been praying for you ever since. My prayers never amount to much. 
Hearing about them could be a sign to you that I could never say I didn't love you, even if you became a pagan with a painted face,practicing witchcraft. Certainly it would be easier to love you as a Christian. Don't be in a hurry to join the chil­dren of the lesser gods. Why not stand up to be counted as a sunbeam for Jesus? 
comparing weltanschauungs~ and when he started to grow sleepy I wished I could take him on a slow boat to China, since that would have given us more time than that short channel crossing. 
A slow boat to China might have allowed him to under­stand that a bird-in-the-hand is worth two in the bush. I mean. who equals Christ as the Alpha and Omega? God is love, and he who abideth in love, abideth in God, and God in him. Is there Good News anywhere that is better than that? 
Christianity isn't a religion you can walk away from with­out a backward look. Does Sean believe he can find a Master more grace-filled than Christ is? Who else has ever said: "Philip, he who seen me has seen the Father?" 
Did Sean expect me to be pleased with him for being spir­itually restless, always on the move, like a rolling stone? 
As a death-haunted poet, Edna St. Vincent Millay re­members childhood as "the kingdom where nobody dies/Nobody that matters, that is. Distant relatives of course/Die, whom one has never/seen or seen for an hour..JAnd cats die ... But you do not wake up a month from then.. .in the middle of the night/And weep, with your knuckles in your mouth, and say Oh,God!" 

"To be grown up,' Millay decides, "is to sit at the table with people who have died, who neither listen nor speak/Who do not drink their tea, though they always said/ Tea was such a comfort." 
I awoke this morning at 4 a.m., thinking of Millay's poem of childhood as the kingdom where nobody dies; wondering if the Church could be called a kingdom where nobody dies forever, least of all grandpar­ents; wondering what people miss, with a knuckle-biting sense of loss once they've out­grown the Church as they out­grew childhood; wondering what they expect us to think of them, after they've taken their walk? What is it that they're leaving, which they hope to find waiting for them in an improved version in a better place? 
"Once a Catholic, always a Catholic," the old priests used to tell the dropouts, to slow them down as they were leav­ing the church door. No one tried harder to be an apostate than James Joyce did. Yet like so many others who have con­tempt for the Irish Church, he 
-

The Hammes
Available at..... 
Open Monday -Saturday
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
9 a.m. -5 p.m.
"on the campus" 

-------. 
Chinese -American I 

PERFECT PINKIES
Restaurant & 
J 
Cocktail Lounge 
1\uthentic Szechuan, 
Roadtripping
M.-mdarin & Hunan Cuisir.~ 

TANNING 
to Michigan? 

Lunches starting at .....$4.25 
ACRYLICS & MANICURES 
Dinners starting at .....$5.95 Voted.Besti 
Student Rates 
Oriental Restitqrant 
See ETC. pp. 12-1

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by,, 

Georgetown Center 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Miclziana Nolv 
I

(n.cxt li.l Randall's Inn) •\ 
-----· 
271-7121 
-~ ------~--~--~-~-~------~---­
Friday, September 10, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next~day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per charac£er per day, including all spaces. 
TRAVEL FREE! CANCUN,  Senior Ticket Book for sale. Call  NEED 2 MSU, USC, Or FSU TIX  
NOTICES  JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK  232-2263 or 273-1035, leave name, ph#, &offer.  x3402  For sale/trade 1 MSU stud. tic  Will trade MSU(8) and BC(6) tix for Southern Cal. Call 631-6305 or  
PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­ Need tix. for any  291-4240.  
Experience the ultimate of all  SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  PacBell 640K RAM w/ color  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  other games  
sports-SKYDIVING I Train with  TOURS 1-800-426-7710  mon.IBM compat...internal modem  272-7233.  Tom J. x40559  4 sale -2 Purdue GA's  
Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and  3.2DOS call282-1190  Call Eric x1461  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump  IF YOU WANT PAPA JOHN'S  
Course, with student I D. West  PIZZA @ 50% OFF AND YOU'RE  Have GA's to all Home Games &  Tickets wanted-4-USC or Pitt game.  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­ LOOKING FOR A PART TIME  WORD PROCESSOR PANASON­ Mich. Call232-7316 from 7-8 p.m.  Call M. McCarthy 215-471-6241  
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ JOB...  IC W-1510, $250 EXCELLENT  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU!$  
ated. One hour North of South  PAPA JOHN'S is now hiring inside  CONDITION  X4355  
Bend. (616)628-4892  personnel and delivery drivers.  289-2537  FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUD.  
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES. 15-20  Need 2 GAs for Pitt.  BOOKLETS. CALL LAURA AT  
Typing  hr/wk and 20-full time hr/wk posi­ FOR SALE: 19"TV, 13" TV $100ea.  Please call Mike at x41862.  2778598.  FOR SALE 2 MICH TX  
287-4082  tions available. Set schedules also  o.b.o.; cube fridge $75 o.b.o. All in  CALL BY FRI 9 PM  
available. 5-7 inside positions and  greatcond.232-7674  X1200  
bed & breakfast in home of  1 0-15 driver positions available.  
st. marys student's parent's  Stop in PAPA JOHN'S @ 54533  FOR SALE: ONE WAY TIC FROM  PLEASE HELP  FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET  
close to stadium call 258 7935  Terrace Lane or call271-1177.  SOUTH BEND TO BOSTON­ I need 1 student ticket for MSU  FOR BC AND FSU. CALL LAURIE  
EOE.  MUST BE USED BEFORE  game. Please call Todd at X3661.  AT 3397.  DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO  
SEPT30. MAKE ANY OFFER  PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$.  
GERTH seeks BASS PLAYER and  X4953 ASK FOR KATE OR  NEED GA'S FOR MSU, USC, FSU,  CALL ALISA @ 4 -1302.  
VOCALIST to complete campus  WENDY  AND BC. JAY x1534  I NEED 3 MSU GA'S. CALL DESI  
band. HAVE GIGS all we need is  I need ride to Penn State any  X1786. WILL TAKE A PAIR AND A  
you. Call DAVE 1081  non-home football weekend.  ALARM SYSTEMS; CAR, HOME  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT!!! CALL  SINGLE  Desperately need 3 MSU GA's.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Will pay gas and tolls, etc. Please call Tim at X2032  AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR INFORMATION CALL JASON @ 237-9702.  KELLYx4270 I Need 6 to aPitt GA's-ext. 1620 ask for Jon  Stud Tixbook 4 sale,call Tom@254­9068 or lv Msg.  Call Keith at 273-3920. PERSONAL  
DORM REFRIG. 259-3023  
MY RED-PURPLE SPECIALIZED  Need volunteers NO and SMC girls  My parents are coming out for the  
HARD ROCK MOUNTAIN BIKE  to coach and referee for Sat. morn­ PANASONIC KX-P1123 PRINTER.  WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP  FSU game and they need GA's I  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  
WAS STOLEN OUT OF  ing flag football program for kids  High quality print -like new, $125.  TICKET TO SAN FRAN.  will trade parent's weekend GA's  
CAVANAUGH LATE MONDAY  ages 7 -13 starting Sept. 11. Call  Call Tom (evenings) 277-2676.  (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA  and cash. I really need these! call  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
NIGHT. CALL TIM AT 1470 IF  Paul Roy 232-2794.  TIX!!! MIKE at X1573  Mike at 2061.  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
YOU KNOW ANYTHING.  '81 CITATION  233-4767  
NEEDED 3 PITT TIX  90,000 Ml  SWM, 19, despratley seeks 2 GA's  
Lost-ND class of '45 ring. Initials  X2558 TARA  $300  for the B.C. game. If you can help,  
T.P.B. inside. Blue stone. Reward.  CHRIS 282-2377  Need two oor three MSU GA's and  please call Ken at x4245.  Bridget ­Thanks for a wonderful  
Call Dr. Bergin @ 631-6214.  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ two Pitt GA's. Ask for Bill. 234­ year of rhubarb. Du bist ver­ 
Make money teaching basic con­ 8293.  Need MSU GA's  schlossen in meinem Herzen. Best  
LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM  versational English abroad. Japan,  16 FAMILIES PLUS!!! NEIGHBOR­ x4519  of luck in Austria! -KP  
FROM A NECKLACE-VERY  Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to  HOOD YARD SALE.  Trade 2 or 3 Mich State GA's for 2  
IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF  $2000-$4000+ per month. Many  LASALLE/COLFAX STS.  or 3 Pitt GA's. Bob 277-2510  Std Booklet 4 sale @ 277-9074  
FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777.  provide room & board + other bene­ BETWEEN EDDY & TWYCKEN­ Huntington Graphics presents AN  
fits. No previous training or teaching  HAM. FURNITURE, BOOKS, LP'S,  Need 1 Pitt GA. Call x2969 Lisa  Need 2 Ga's for Pitt game. Please  EXHIBITION & SALE OF FINE ART  
Lost: Silver colored Seiko man's  certificate required. For more infor­ SPORTS EQUIP, TYPEWRITERS,  Call Will x3080  PRINTS-The sale includes 100's  
watch at NW !-ball game. Engraved  mation call: (206)632-1146 ext.  CLOTHING, INFANTS EQUIP,  Need Mich. St. & USC  of different art prints by DALI,  
on back: Love, Helen 2-23-88.  J5584  ETC.9AM-1PMSAT9/11 RAIN OR  G.A.s call Mike x0600  MATISSE, MONET, PICASSO,  
Great Sent. value. Call John collect  SHINE.  NEEDED: 3 MSU GA's  RENOIR, VAN GOGH & many oth­ 
@ 312-587-1768  Call Brian at 634-3314  ers; rock posters; movie stars; M.C.  
BRUNO'S PIZZA needs PT  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  McEscher prints; black & white pho­ 
LOST: silver cross on leather  Hostesses and Drivers (for Campus  PORTABLE CD PLAYER FOR  TICKETS BOOKLET  2 Mich GAs b/o Marty 4-1521  tography + scenic & wildlife photos.  
choker, great sentimental value,  Deliveries) Call John at 288-3320.  SALE. DENNON DCP-30 w/ 8x  271-1998  TODAY, 9 AM-5PM  
if found please call x4906  OVERSAMPLING. $160, includes  NOTRE DAME ROOM  
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS,  accesories. Call MARTY 4-4461  Need Michigan State GA's  2nd floor, Lafortune.  
LOST-OPAL PENDANT  EARN CASH & GO FREE!! I  will buy or trade for Pitt Ga's  
PLEASE PLEASE CALL 4248  Student Travel Services is now hir­ 4 SALE MSU STUDENTS  x3884 -Kara  MOST PRINTS: $7 each -3 prints  
ing campus reps. Call @800-648­4849.  TICKETS  232-3736  Have 2 Pitt GA's. Will trade for BC  for only $171  
Lost a disk-case with four 3-1/2 in.  or FSU. Alan x1933  
disks, on 9/6 (Mon), between  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  Need MSU GA or Stud will trade  who's got the bananas?  
DeBartolo and the Golden Dome  Calling all WOMEN (students, facul­ TIXS.272-6306  Pitt or USC or Cash CALL x17 44  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
(prob'ly in 331 DeBartolo). The  ty, staff)! Do you have something  Wanted: 1 Pitt GA  
disks are labeled ·me," "myself,"  to say? Do you express yourself  call x-3265  Jen Snodgrass, I want to meet you.  
"i," and "fonts." Very important to  through poetry, music, testimony, or  Help! Need 2 Ga's for PITT, BC, or  $ Feverish Alumni in need of 4GAs  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
me, please help! Call287-7696  duck calling? You are needed for  USC. call x4-3650  for USC. Call Tommaso X1480 $  
if you've found them.  an NO Women Speak Out night on  HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY MO  
Monday, September 20. Please  NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR  Alumni needs 2 GA tix 4 Mich St,  NUGENT! HAPPY18TH BIRTHDAY  
call Katie at 634-2728 or Linda at  EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR  NEED 2 USC TICKETS  Pitt, & Fla St. Will pay top $$. Call  MO NUGENT! HAPPY 18TH  
WANTED  232-2739 to sign up. Don't worry, there are no auditions!  11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT 1 800 543 0357  CALL JULIE AT 284-5511  Susan at X1285.  BIRTHDAY MO NUGENT! HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY MO NUGNETI  
NEEDED: 2 Pitt G.A.'s  HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY MO  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  Call ELISSA x4982  NUGENT! HAVE A GREAT 18TH  
Experienced Student Painters  1 or 2 roomates for furnished home.  I NEED 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE  B-DAY MO NUGENT! HAVE A  
needed to paint South Bend area  Nice, clean ... 259-0219  NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641  CALL MIKE AT 634-1862.  $$$$$$$$$PLEASE HELP$$$$$$  GREAT 18TH B-DAY MO  
homes. Full or Part Time.  KEVIN  DESPERATELY NEED ONE STU­ NUGENT! HAVE A GREAT 18TH  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  HELP!! NEED USC AND FSU  DENT OR GA FOR MICH. STATE.  BIRTHDAY MO NUGENT! HOPE  
1-800-626-6267.  TIX. CALL KEV. X1689  PLEASE CALL KATE  YOUR 18TH BIRTHDAY IS A BIG  
"painting America's homes coast to  FOR RENT  I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653  4-1514.  SPLASH MOl  
coast"  
6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS,  NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA OR STUD TXI PLEASE CALL BETH AT  Have a MSU. Who wants it? CHRIS x1815.  - 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO.  X2495.  MMMMATHINK FASTIMMN\MN\  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  PER PERSON.  Need Pitt GA's-call ext 3756, katie  I NEED MSU STUD TIX!II  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  2 BEDROOM, $295 MO.  Mike x4-1103  It seems like a lot, but your small  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS  1 BEDROOM, $225 MO.  WANTED-tickets for NO­ sacrifice could help feed the world.  
& PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­ Will give first-born son for four USC  MICHIGAN (sept. 11 ,away)  NEED PITT GA'S  Consider skipping lunch at the din­ 
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­ PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE.  tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob  call Chris at 232-7315$  X232-3807  ing hall on wednesdays -the  
678-63861  272-6306.  at 273-0620.  rewards are remarkable.  
WEDNESDAY LUNCH FAST  
want to buy std. ticket booklets. call  begins September 22. Look for  
LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE  WEEKENDS-RIVERFRONT NEW  Desperately seeking tickets for  233-5130. ask for mike.  I NEED 1 TICKET FOR MSU.  sign-ups in the dining halls next  
& HONEST YOUNG LADY TO  HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101.  Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call  pleasel$1$1$  CALL CHRIS AT 4323.  week.  
WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE.  Rich 277-4769  Thanks,  
HOURS FLEXIBLE, PREFERABLY  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  World Hunger Coalition  
DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN  219-291-7153  NEED 2 OR 3 MSU TICKETS.  MSU GAs WANTED! AMY x4813  
NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL  WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM  WILL BUY OR WILL TRADE 2  
273-4888 FOR MORE INFORMA­ NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX  PITT TICKETS. (412)741-4059.  Love, Peace, and Tacos  
TION. IMMEDIATE START.  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN  NEED MSU + FSU GA'S  11 a.m. til 1 0 p.m. M-Sa  
OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ 708-843-6947.  TOM@ 271-2908  CACTUS JACK'S  
DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT.  For Sale: 2 stu. ftball booklets. Call  1827 South Bend Ave.  
WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE  $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA.  Ann@ 4-2689  
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO  JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444.  WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS.  I NEED 3 GAS & 1 STUD  
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­ 272-7233.  FOR PITT CALL 4248  
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  $$ I NEED 2 USC Ga's will pay  *20*20*20*20*20*20*20*20*20*  
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN  NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  good money. call Eric x1777 $$  HAPPY 20TH BIRHTDAY  
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE  271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  BRIGITTEII!III  
10AM-6PM MON-FRI  MACHINE.  277-1659.  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR  YOU'RE SO SCRUMPTOUS!III!  
NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL  NO -MICH. ST. GA TIX. CALL  LOVE, ELIZABETH, KATIE,  
Yesterdays Food & Spirits,  FOR SALE  Need student tickets and FSU  HOME NO GAMES CALL AARON X1868  JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M.  LAURA, & PATRICE *20*20*20*20*20*20*20*20*20*  
Granger, IN, hiring for: servers, bar­ GA's, please call4-3281.  
tenders, line cook. Exp. pre!. but  Washer & dryer: full-size Kenmore,  
not nee. for info ca11272-7017  white, good condition: 3-cycle  Need 4 MSU GAs. Have 4 BC GAs  ALUM WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO  
washer, electric dryer. Ready to go.  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ to trade/sell. Lisa 273-6032  OR FOUR TICKETS TO ANY OR  Ru Paul Schoaps can work you girl.  
$200 each or $300 for both. Jeff  ETS! 2 GAs for Mich. State, FSU,  ALL OF THE FOLLOWING HOME  
Newspaper carriers and branch  288-3878 after 6 pm.  and BC call: A. Raczkowski  GAMES: PITTSBURGH, USC,  
managers needed for Notre Dame  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  FLORIDA STATE, BOSTON COL­ JOHN SCHADL-­ 
and St. Mary's campus. Call imme­ with jobs -will pay big $$$!  Profanely Wealthy Notre Dilme  LEGE. CALL BILL HOGAN  
diately for available positions: 232­ Fanatic Needs 2 Pitt GAs.  (OFFICE) 217-782-6995  We hope you had a great 21st birth­ 
3205.  SOFA FOR SALE  Call Pat at x1550  (ANS. MACHINE) 217-698-9267  day. We're all overcome with  
Sleeper sofa in GREAT cond.  NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN  ecstasy knowing that now we will  
Dan 232-7242  STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074  WANTED: 2-4 TICKETS FSU/ND  see you out aU the time! If they  
Babysitter with experience, trans­ 1-800-524-5999  have any business acumen at all,  
portation and references needed  FOR SALE: 2 STUD. BOOKLETS  the bars that you decide to frequent  
part-time days and evening in NO  brother word proc. for sale  Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU  will give you free drinks for all of the  
professor home. Please call 232­ 225 o.b.o. call chris X3040  tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill  NEED 2 MSU GA'S  extra business that you attract.  
2201.  (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo  I need 2 MSU tix! Lisa x 2569  PLEASE CALL BRADY 3349  

page 16 Friday, September 10, 1993 
By TARA KRULL 
Sports Writer 
Hoping to build on a strong performance at last weekend's scrimmage, the Saint Mary's soccer team will travel to DePauw University this week­end to take on Dennison University and Washington University. 
Although the Belles have never faced Washington, they were defeated last year by Dennison, 1-0. According to Belles' coach Tom VanMeter, both teams should pose a chal­lenge for the team, as Washington is nationally ranked at thirteenth while Dennison is nineteenth in NCAA Division III. 
"It's nice to be playing against nationally ranked teams. yet at the same time it's like a double-edged sword," he said. "It will be a positive beginning to our season if we are successful. However, it could also be negative to begin with losses." 
A successful weekend will help the Belles in their quest for a national ranking. 
Junior Jennifer Ferry was pleased with the team's perfor­mance in last week's scrim­mage against Goshen College. 
"It went real well and we had a strong showing," she said. "Our defense was strong and we continued to work on it this week. It will prove to be cru­cial this weekend." 
In addition to working on defense, the team has been doing its best to help the new players adapt. "Our freshmen look strong and are ready to contribute to our team," said Ferry. 
VanMeter agreed, also noting the importance of experience in this weekend's match-ups. Although the Belles lost several key players last year. six seniors have stepped up to fill in the voids. 

Travelling to Michigan this weekend? 
See pages 12 and 13 for maps and information about the University of Michigan. 
-

Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that Includes team sports, free aerobics dasses, and much more. 
Efficiencies from =70 
1-Bedrooms from 285 2-Bedrooms from 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Alr Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free Aerobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

272-lSSf) 
rHICKORU 
DlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, S~t. 1Q-4 &Sun. 12-4 
·" 
~~ 
~·' 
:-:: 
li 
I
:::: 
·:·: 
~\~~ 
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Media Relations 

Molly O'Connell is one of six returning seniors for an upbeat Belle soccer team. 
"There is a lot of talent among our six seniors," he said. "They are showing great leadership qualities, which cre­ate a positive atmosphere for the entire team." 
Volleyball travels to Oberlin tourney 
After the two day tourna­ment, which includes competi­tion from several Division III schools, the Belles will get away from tourney play and begin their regular season. 
Other teams at the tourna­ment include host Oberlin, Ohio Dominican, Bethany, and Penn State at Behrend. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Account Executive 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Anne Heroman as soon as possible. Contact Anne at 631-8840 for more information. 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Ecliwr 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team is looking to avenge a dis­appointing finish in last week's tournament with a high finish this weekend at the Oberlin College Tournament. 
Practice this week focused more on defense, which coach Julie Schroeder-Biek felt need­ed improvement after last weekend's performance. 
The Belles will look to senior tri-captain Michelle Martino for leadership on the courts this weekend. Martino, who holds the school record for number of assists, also noted the impor­tance of team attitude. 
"Our attitude has improved a lot from last year," she said. "However. we still need to work on trusting and believing in each other." 

Fa 11 Break Seminars 
October 24-30, 1993 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service learning at one of eleven sites in the Appalachian region Student-directed serviceI reflection One-credit Theology 


NEW WOMEN. NEW CHURCH 
Explore the changing role of women in 
the Church, and related issues of service Experiential learning in Chicago at various sites, with women in social ministry 


One-credit Theology or Gender Studies 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
National Service: Institutional Questions and Future Potentials? 
Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Includes service and political awareness opportunities 


One credit Theology 


Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Tuesday, Sept. 21, 1993 
rl 

Friday, September 10, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish backfield hampered by injury, transfer 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY guered Irish back field, back-up Sports Wrirer quarterback Paul Failla was listed as questionable for In yet another significant set­tomorrow's match-up with 
back to the already belea-third ranked Michigan at Ann Arbor due to a jammed right thumb, while freshman fullback Ron Hardin announced his intention to transfer to Georgia Tech. Failla injured the thumb at practice on Wednesday when he hit it on another player's shoulder pads while throwing. His thumb was iced, but he still had difficulty grasping the ball. Head coach Lou Holtz had announced at a Tuesday press conference that he had plans to play Failla in the first half. 

"I think Paul does some nice things," he said. ''I'm very hopeful that he'll play a major role in the game up at Michigan." 
Failla completed all three 

Welcome to the Family 
We invite you to the fall gathering of 

First United Methodist Church 333 N. Main St., South Bend 
(corner ofMain & Madison) 
Parking available behind the church Celebration Sunday September 12, 1993 Worship Services -8:45 & 11:00 a.m. Sunday School for all ages -9:45 a.m. 
Nursery care provided throughout the morning 
Dr. Allan Byrne, Senior Pastor Cindy Solum, Christian Education Director Tim Robinson, Music Director/Organist 233-9463 
passes he attempted in Notre Dame's home opener versus Northwestern for a total of eleven yards. 
The thumb is described as sore, but not broken. 
Since Failla's absence, fresh­man Tom Krug has been run­ning plays with the second team offense in practice. 
Hadin becomes the second Irish player in three years to become a Yellowjacket. Tailback Dorsey Levens made the move in 1990. 
Due to NCAA rules, Hardin will have to sit this year out, but should compete for the starting fullback spot next sea­son. 
The freshman spent two weeks with the Irish camp and was listed fourth on the depth chart. 
He ran for 728 yards and eleven touchdowns in his senior year and 1,746 yards and 29 touchdowns overall at Trinity High School in Louisville, Kentucky. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame Sports Information is looking for vol­unteer help for the 1993-94 academic year. Our office han­dles statistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more infor­mation, call Rose at 631-7516. 
ND Rugby Club practices everyday at 4:15 at Stepan Field anyone interested in com­ing must bring a mouthpiece and cleats. 



Men's and women's varsi­ty diving tryouts are being held from Wed. to Fri. at 4:00­
5:30 p.m. in Rolfs Natatorium. For questions call Adam or Randy at 631-8455. 
Women's safety and self­defense-Course objective is to expose women to basic self­defense techniques as used in real-life situations. Classes begin Monday, September 13. 10 sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays, 6:30-7:45 PM, Rockne Rm. 219. Class size is limited and open to stu­dents/faculty/staff and requires a $9.00 fee. For more infor­mation call631-6100. 
Shorin-RYU Karate-Students are instructed accord­ing to Okinawan techniques. Classes begin Monday, September 13, and run throughout the semester on Mondays and Wednesdays 4:30-6:00 and requires a $15.00 fee. Demonstration; Wednesday, September 8, 5:00 PM in Rockne 301. For more information call631-6100 
SCUBA diving course­YMCA lifetime certification. Classes begin Sunday, September 12. Seven class­room and pool sessions meeting on Sundays 3:30-7:30 PM Important information meet­ing Wednesday, September 8, 
6:00 PM in Rockne 218. For 
more information call 631­6100. 
Biathlon-1/2 mile swim and 2 mile run. Saturday, September 11, 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach. Three divisions: Varsity, Non-varsity, and Team. Register in advance at RecSports. For more infor­mation call631-6100. 
Off-campus students inter­ested in playing interhall soccer should report to Stepan Field at 5 p.m. on September 13. Call Ed at 273-5971 with any ques­tions. 
Anyone interested in offi­ciating flag football should attend a mandatory meeting on September 13 at 6 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
The Waterpolo Club will hold an informational meeting for any people interested in playing. The meeting will be held at Rolfs Aquatic Center at 8pm tonight. 
The Spartan Spike Volleyball Tournament, a 6 on 6 Co-Ree tournament, willl be.held Friday, September 17 at 8:00 pm under the lights at Stepan Courts. Any interested parties should register in advance in the RecSports office by Wednesday, September 15. For more information call the RecSports office at 631-6100. 
~----------------------------~ 
I I 

I BUY OME, GET OME FREEl I 
: LARGE CUP OR CONE. I 
I ----......._1 
I Plellse present coupon before ordering. One ~!jit&rt!0lI coupon per customer per vtsit. Offer good only ~0 !,ll I llt llddress llbo~. Not valid in combination with I llny other offer. Expires 9/30/93 01-. 1 c.n·t ..,_,...-.... L,..
I_____________________________I 
Weight Watchers at WOrk 
10 week program for students, staff, faculty 
101/a Discount! 
Begins Tues., Sept. 21, 12-12:45. 
Register by Spet. 14 with Peggy Peterson, Dept. ofHuman 
Resources, 631-5389. 
-
-


page 18 The Observer • WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info 

Getting to know the starters 
A look at the key players for the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team: 
MICHELLE MCCARTHY Sophomore Midfielder Background: All-Midwestern Collegiate 1 
Conference second team selection. Named to M C C Newcomer­of-the-year squad. 

Pe truceIIi Michelle on McCarthy: McCarthy "She is a great dribbler with outstanding composure, and has the ability to score goals." 
ROSELLA GUERRERO Sophomore Forward 
Background: Team's leading scorer in 1992. All-MCC pick and ranked 13th in the nation in scoring. 
IN THE LINE OF FIRE~ 
Daily 4,30, 7:15, 9;45 -Sal & Sun UO, 4,30, 7, 15, 9A5 

THE

&fCRET 
-
RPEN~ 
12:30, z,Jo. 4AS, 6,4s. s,45 
Tom Hanks· Meg Ryan 

SLEEPLESS 
IN SEATTLE rffi 
lUO, H5, 5:00, 7,15, 9,30 

-
1H5, 3:00, 5:15, 7:30, 10,00 


Petrucelli on Guerrero: "Rosella has a great nose for the goal and great intensity." 
RAGEN COYNE Sophomore Midfielder 
Background: Second team All-American. MCC first team selec­tion and earned S o c c e r America all­freshman team honors. 
Petrucelli on McCarthy: "Ragen is a workaholic and our teams anchor in the field." 
ALLISON LESTER Senior Forward Background: All-MCC second 
team. Three year starter Petrucelli on McCarthy: "Great intensity and never say 



Junior Jill Matesic earned a reputation of being a tenacious defender. She'll return to a starting role this fall. ­
Go Irish ... ... Beat Wolverines 
HARRISON FORO 


THE FUGITIVE 
Daily 4,15, 7;00, IQ,OO jPG-t3j Sa1 & Sun 1,00, 4J5, 7;00, 10,00 
~D[[ WILLY 
A 3 ton whale. ~ 
H5, 4,15, 6:45,9,00 
NEEDFUL THINGS 
ED HARRIS MAX VON SYDOW @ 
z,oo, 4,3o, 7,00, 9,45 
christian slater 
TRUE ROMANCE 
2J5, 5,00, 7JO, 10,00 IE] 

die attitude. Her senior leader­ship is invaluable." 
JODI HARTWIG Junior Midfielder 
Background: Two year starter who earned all­MCC honors as a fresh­man. 
Petrucelli on Hartwig: "Jodi has great speed and is very dangerous. She is extremely intense and has kind of a New Jersey attitude." 
ANDI KUREK Senior Defender Background: All-MCC honors 
in her first three years 

Petrucelli on Kurek: "Andy is extremely focused. She is a great marking player. Can al­ways count on Andi to take their best player head on." 
JILL MATESIC Junior Defender 

Background: Two year starter, all-MCC newcomer her freshman campaign 
Petrucelli on McCarthy: "Very physical, hard player. She is the type of role player every team must have." 
JEN RENOLA Freshman Goalie ~ Background: USYSA All­American goalie in high school. 
Petrucelli on Renola: "She has great athletic ability, and unlimited potential in goal." 
TIFFANY THOMPSON Junior Midfielder Background: Two year 
starter and all-MCC newcomer. Petrucelli on Thompson: 

BY POPULAR DEMAND 

Tom DeLuca 
Master Hypnotist 
Friday, September 17th .. 9:00 p.m. Washington Hall .. Tickets: $3°0 Available at LaFortune Information Desk 
Sponsored by Office of Student Activities 
"Sort of an unsung hero on the field. Gets no respect. Plays hard every second and gets the job done." 
JULIE VOGEL 
Sophomore Defender 
Background: Played in 18 games as a freshman. 
Petrucelli on Vogel: "Great speed. A player that is essential when we face teams with a fast forward. Instrumental as a defender of the bench." 
ASHLEY SCHARFF 
Sophomore Defender 
Background: Started 19 games at sweeper as a fresh­man. 
Petrucelli on Scharff: "A key player with good overall skills. The type of player who holds thing s together on the defen­sive end." 


David R. Cary Keep doing things in a big way! 
Wings are legal now! 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
Love, The Woobs 

BACK 
CINDYDAWS 
Freshman Forward 
Background: NSCAA All­American in high school. 
Petrucelli on Daws: "Great · shot and technically outstand­ing." 
STACIA MASTERS Freshman Forward Background: USYSA and 
Parade All­American in high school. 
Petrucelli on Masters: "She has tremen­dous quick­ness, like a lit­tle waterbug 

out  there.  Stacia  
Great to bring  Masters  
her in off the  

bench when teams are wearing down." 
KATE FISHER Freshman Forward 
Background: Unheralded re­cruit who should pay dividends quickly. 
Petrucelli on Fisher: "Great shot, great use of both feet an extremely versatile player." 


Friday, September 10, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
son's meetings by the scores of 4-3 and 3-1. respectively. 
Women 
Following a weekday home 
"I just wanted to give our players from Texas a chance to play at home," said Petrucelli, explaining how he ended up in the Classic. "We just wanted to play a game, and the next thing we know we're playing North Carolina and Duke." 

Although Notre Dame has never before met the Tar Heels, SEPTEMBER they did face the Blue Devils 4 at LaSalle last season and fell 2-1. "We 
7 BUTLER 10 at Wisconsin-Madison
played with too much emotion," 

14 at Indiana
said Petrucelli. 

17 MICHIGAN STATE 
The squad rounds up the reg­19 WILLIAM &MARY ular season with away games 24 N.C. STATE versus Loyola, Ohio State, and 
26 SMU 29 WRIGHT STATE 
Detroit Mercy. The Irish, who have faced neither the 

OCTOBER 
Buckeyes nor the Titans in pre­1 at Stanford vious seasons, trounced the 3 at St. Mary's Ramblers last year, 11-0. 
6 WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE 8 XAVIER
The MCC Tournament will 

10 vs. EVANSVILLE
take place November 4-7 in 

15 vs. North Carolina 
Indianapolis. 17 vs. Duke Petrucelli sees the intimidat­20 at Loyola ing schedule as a challenge 23 at Ohio State 
24 at Detroit Mercy 
rather than an obstacle. "We definitely wanted to play the 

NOVEMBER
best teams and find out where 

4-7 MCC Champ., Indianapolis 
we are at," he said. 

"Our players are excited to play against the top teams in the nation," he added. "It's part of the reason why they came to playing teams use or at a Notre Dame." 
make their adjustment to col­On top of the offense. the With a formidable schedule lege play go smoothly. Irish have a solid veteran ahead of them, the Irish will The potent Irish offense has defensive corps which has yethave to liv·e up to their full 
high expectations. Butler head to allow a goal.potential in order achieve the 
coach Bryan Blitz, who watched success they desire. They are the Irish stomp over his club on With two victories alreadyblessed with an abundance of Tuesday 4-0, holds a deep under its belt, the women's soc­talent which is for the most respect for the Notre Dame cer team is beginning what part experienced. Three of the attack. "You can't just focus on could be the season that pro­
.freshman recruits were ranked 

one of them because the other pels Notre Dame into the colle­in the top ten in the nation two will get you," he said. giate soccer elite. coming out of high school. It is Indeed, Petrucelli agreed. Hop on the bandwagon before expected that their experience "It's the kind of team that could it fills up. 

Watch for junior Jodi Hartwig to resume her impact on the Irish scoreboard in 1993. She scored only two goals last year after tallying nine in her freshman campaign. 
continued from page 1 
should be able to ascend in the polls with a strong start to the season. 
On being their ranking, Petrucelli commented, "It's right where I think we are, but I believe, and I hope, that by the end of the year we'll be higher." 
The Irish have a long, bumpy road ahead en route to a possi­ble tournament bert, including many ranked teams and some teams just looking for revenge. 
The weekend of Sep. 24 is one of those bumps as the Irish welcome the elite squads from North Carolina State and Southern Methodist to the Golden Dome Classic. The Wolfpack and the Mustangs were both victorious in last sea-game against Wright State, Notre Dame will travel to Stanford, California for two games, the first being against the mighty Cardinal. The Cardinal, who were ranked sec­ond at last year's meeting, dropped the Irish 3-0. 
The Irish return from Stanford for three home games, the first being against Wisconsin-Milwaukee and the last being against conference foes Xavier and Evansville on the eighth and tenth of October. 
After the home stand, the squad will travel to Houston, Texas for its most important weekend of the season. It will compete against defending national champion North Carolina and Duke on October 15 and 17, respectively in the Challenge College Classic. 

Senior Andi Kurek, a three-year starter, ranks as one of the veterans on an Irish squad heavy with underclassmen. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
No resume or personal statement needed. Call Cheryl Moser at 631-7471. 
Student Government needs you to 
help  make The Guide,  a  student  
course  evaluation book,  a  reality.  
Join The Guide committee.  It's a great  

way to get involved. 
There will be a meeting on Monday, Sept. 13th at 7:00pm in the Student Government Office, 2nd noor ofLaFortune. 
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 
-


American Heart Association 



page 20 
·­
The Psychology behind 
the Citibank ClassicVisa card, and the 
emotional security of the Photocard. The Citibank Classic Visa' instills in students feelings of safety, security, and general wellness not unlike those experienced in the womb. Therefore, it is the mother of all credit cards. 91 Some experts attribute these feelings to the Citibank Photocard, the only credit card with your photo on it. A voice inside says, "This is me, really me." (As opposed to, "Who the heck is that?"-a common response to the photo on one's driver's license.) It's an immediate form of 10, a boost to your self-image. 91 Of course if your card is ever lost or stolen and a stranger is prevented from using it, you'll feel exceptionally good (showing no signs of Credit Card Theft Nervosa). 91 Other experts point to specific services, such as The Lost Wallet'm Service that can replace your card usually within 24 hours. Or the 24-Hour Cus­tomer Service line, your hotline, if you will, for any card-related anxiety whatsoever. 91 Further analysis reveals three services that protect the purchases you make on the Citibank 
Classic Visa card, at no additional cost. 1. Buyers Security'm can cover them against accidental damage, fire or theft. tor 90 days from the date of purchase' (preventing, of course, Insecurity). 
2. Citibank Lifetime Warranty'm allows one to extend the warranty for the expected service lite of eligible products up to 12 years.2 3. And Citibank Price Protection assures you of the best price. You need only see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150' (hence no Post Purchase Depression~. 91 Special student savings are particularly therapeutic. There's the free Citibank Calling Service'mfrom MCI to save up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&T3 (You're encouraged to call Mom and Dad regu­larly preventing Parenta Non-Supportus.) And a $20 Airfare Discount4 on any domestic flight. (Case studies indicate that a Fear of Flying is overcome when Spring Break in sunny Florida is a possibility.) Not to mention the low variable interest rate of 15.4%5 and no annual fee for college students. 91 Suffice it to say, you'll have a credit card you can depend on while building a credit history. So call l-800-CITIBANK, extension 19, to apply over the phone (students don't need a job or a cosigner) or to have your photo added 
R ems~~! 
to your Citibank Classic Visa card. 91 If we say that a 
!ii~Wli~:~J, 
sense of Identity is the first component of the Citibank 
;·1zs oo.1.2 3ts~ 
Classic Visa card, a sense of Security the second, and 
o6i'Oi omii;, w '/ 
-~11!!111 
LINDA WAUtR
"'= 92

a sense of Autonomous Will from your newfound financial independence the third. don't be crazy ... Call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa. 
1Certam condiuon!\ and exclu~ion' apply. Plca'e rctCr to your Summary of Additional Program InfOrmation. Buyer' Security i' underwritten by The Zurich International UK L1m11ed. 'Certam re,lrictions ond limilalions opply. Underwriucn by !he New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is a! lea"r.t the manamum ha\ed on retail industry data. Detail' of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. 'Saving!-. claim is ba-.d on a IO·minule night/weekcml cull in the l.\111 10 3.000 mileoge hand using MCI\ Card Compa!ibilily rales vs. AT&T\ standard calling card rates, effective 4/91 Citah.u.nk Calling Service long lli~tancc u'age cannot he applied to obtain benefit!\ under any other MCI pttrtner program or offer. including traver aWard programs. 'OtTer expire' 0130/\14. Minimum lickel purchu'c price is SIIKJ. Rehale' are ll>r Cilibank student cordmembe" on lickets issued by ISE Flights only. 'The Annual Percentage Rate for purcha'e' is 15.4'« "' of K/93 and may vary quonerly. The Annual Pcrcen1age Rate for cash advances is 19.8'!!-. If " finance charge is impo-ed, the mimmum I\ 50 cent\. There i' an ac.klitional finance charge for each ca!\h advance lran!'laction equal to zq, of the amount of each ~.·ash advance transaction: however. it wall not he le!\\ than $2.00 nr greater than SIO.OO. Monarch"' Note' arc puhli~hcd hy Monarch Pre''· a divi~ion of Simon & Schu~ter. a Paramount Communications Company u...,d hy permi,\lon of I he puhli,her. Citibank credil cards are i"ued by Ci1ibank !South D-•kota). N.A. © 19\13 Citibank !South D-•kota). N.A. Member FDIC 


The Monarch® Notes Version: The Citibank Classic card gives students peace of mind, protection against Freud-or rather fraud-a low rate and no fee. Apply today. Call 1-800-CITIBANK, ext. 19 

------~------~-------­
Friday, September I 0, 1993 The Observer· SPORTS 
Meeting the Irish 
A look at the key players for the Notre Dame men's soccer team: 
TIM OATES 
Junior Forward 
Background: Named Soccer America's player of the week last week and was the MVP of the adidas-Met Life Classic in Bloomington after scoring three goals in Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Rutgers. 
Berticelli on Oates: "(Those statistics) pretty much speaks for itself about how his season is going." 
KEITH CARLSON 
Junior Forward 
Background: A standout at forward in his first two seasons, Carlson joins Oates in the start­ing lineup to provide a potent scoring threat on the front line. than Mike Palmer in a leader­

Berticelli on Carlson: "We ship role. He leads by example expect Keith to come forward on and off the field and that's and boost our offense consider­crucial to our program at this ably." stage." 
RICK CHRISTOPHER Junior Midfielder 

JEAN JOSEPH Background: 
Junior Midfielder Christopher's Background: Led the team in biggest asset scoring as a freshman, but is his ability spent much of his sophomore to play any season on the bench. Appears position well. to be returning to the form of This season, his rookie season. he will con-Berticelli on Joseph: "Jean is centrate pri-Rick very motivated and he posesses marily on the Christopher many of the same leadership midfield, qualities tha Mike Palmer where he has shined early in does." the year. 
Berticelli on Christopher: "He has done a tremendous job BILL LANZA and he will be an impact player Sophomore for us this year." Mid fielder 
Background: JASON FOX Led the team Junior Midfielder in scoring as a 

Background: A bout with freshman and mononucleosis hindered Fox's spent the effectiveness a year ago, but summer tour­the former Parade high school ing Europe All-American is a talented vet­with the Bill Lanza eran who has blossomed into Under-20 one of the nation's best mid­National Team. fielders. Berticelli on Lanza: "He's a 


Berticelli on Fox: "He's play­world-class player and anytime ing the best soccer he's played you have someone like that on in his three years here. He's as your roster you have a chance good a midfielder as I've seen to be successful" in Division I this early in the season." CHRIS DEAN 
Junior Midfielder MIKE PALMER Background: Veteran who Senior Midfielder has started every game since 

Background: Team captain arriving at Notre Dame. Will be provides leadership and goal­the leader of the defense. scoring punch. Trying to re­Berticelli on Dean: "He is cover from a roller coaster ju­the leader of our back line. nior season. He's been in the starting lineup 
Berticelli on Palmer: "We ever since he got here and he couldn't have anyone better has always been a solid per­former." 
SEPTEMBER 
4 vs. Rutgers 
5 vs. UNLV 10 BUTLER 14' at Detroit Mercy 17 MICHIGAN STATE 19 EVANSVILLE 24 INDIANA 28 DEPAUL 
OCTOBER 
1 SOUTH CAROLINA 3 PENN STATE 8 at Xavier 
10 at Ohio State 13 LOYOLA 17 at Bowling Green 21 WESTERN ILLINOIS 26 at Old Dominion 29 at Delaware 31 at LaSalle 
NOVEMBER 
4-7 Midwest Collegiate Con­ference Championships 
-
DANE WHITLEY Junior Defense 
Background: Junior seeing the first extended action of his career. 
Berticelli on Whitley: "He's stepped in and done a great job to win his spot and he will be a force for us defensively." 
BRIAN ENGESSER Freshman Defense 
Background: Freshmen came to preseason camp and prompt­ly won the starting position. 

Berticelli on Engesser: "He won his spot as soon as he ar­rived. He just came in and proved that he could play and I-Wli..CI" BRANCO ROOERT MPU I<'AATtl9lE£N .~ t{}N 
FREOCR!C IU*.SI N..BERT 1-W.L ~ 001ltMi ~fGfll.fH: ..ceH> fo:ml 
··a NOT-TO-BE MISSED TREASURE 
...loaded with talent and memorable characters." 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info For the third straight year Bert Bader digs in defending the goal for Notre Dame. 
play well at the college level." 
BERT BADER 
Junior Goalkeeper 
Background: Junior needs just five shutouts to become Notre Dame's all-time saves leader. 
Berticelli on Bader: "He has been a starter for us for two years and he has continued to play well. He shut out Indiana in the second half and he al­lowed just one goal against Rutgers and UNLV." 

continued from page 1 
however, Notre Dame cannot be lulled by their early good feelings into any feeling of security. 
They will be facing one of the toughest schedules in the coun­try, including three teams in the top 20 and six that made an appearance in last year's NCAA tournament. 
Despite the tough road, Berticelli has optimistic thoughts about the season. 
"We would like to win the conference, but our goals lie much higher than that," said Berticelli. "Our objective is to be one of the top teams in the nation." 
The Irish have been selected to finish second behind defend­ing champion Evansville in the Midwestern, Collegiate Conference preseason poll. 
Notre Dame defeated the Purple Aces last year 1-0 be­fore falling to them in the post­season. 
Butler University, ranked third in the MCC poll, stands as formidable opposition for the Irish. In last year's game, the two teams battled to a 1-1 tie, while their overall head-to­head record stands at 1-1-1. 
Notre Dame will look to two year starter Bert Bader to turn in a strong game in goal, while much of the offensive duties 
....

will rest on Oates, Fox, and sophomore Bill Lanza, who last year tallied eight goals and four assists. 
"Butler can be a very physi­cally dominating team," con­tinued Berticelli. "To be suc­cessful, we'll have to control the tempo and intensity of the game." 
Tonight's game is scheduled to start at 7:30p.m. at Alumni Field . 
--------~----~­
Irish volleyball to face top ranked teams at Reebok tourney 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR the Reebok Challenge in Sports Writer Chicago, competing with three of the nation's top ten teams 
The eighteenth ranked Notre and hoping to expand its repu­Dame volleyball team will face tation as a national power. a trial by fire this weekend at The Irish will need all of their 
talents and a sm~l amount of luck to come away with two victories, but are confident that they are ready to take the pro­gram to the next level. 
"Our number one goal is to go there and compete hard. As I've said before, we have noth­ing to lose, and this is a great opportunity for us to compare ourselves to those that are already established," stated head coach Debbie Brown. 
The tournament begins for the Irish with a Friday night contest against the sixth ranked team nationally, Illinois. 
The Fighting Illini have strug­

-
gled to a disappointing 0-3 record, but the losses have come at the hands of USC, UCLA, and Texas, all in the top ten. 
They are led by 6'1" senior middle-blocker Kristen Henriksen. 
"I really believe that we're capable of beating them," said Brown. "After the last two losses, they might be a little down and lacking confidence." 
Saturday night, the Irish will play either Colorado or Long Beach State, respectively ranked number 12 and 2 in the country. 
Both have opened undefeat­ed, and Long Beach is especial­ly intimidating, led by consen­sus all-American Danielle Scott, who has averaged an astound­ing .522 kill percentage in her first three matches. 
Still, Brown was pleased with her team's readiness for the tournament. 
"We've improved in all the things we needed to work on, and hopefully Christy (Peters) and Molly (Stark) will continue to play the way they did against Washington. If we keep a fairly high level of intensity, we'll be okay," she said. 


You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 
Baptism Confirmation Full Communion 
in the Catholic Church 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
~~Aw~~~~~~~mmn~ !\l<IDt1u'® IIDml.lffi1fPJ li&CID®WID~ l1~1FCIDu~mlliD® 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confirmation For Catholics interested in receiving the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Questions? call or visit Kate Barrett Campus Ministry Badin !lull Office 631·52-12 
-
Runners lace up for first meet 
By DYLAN BARMMER sophomores Andrew Burns, Joe Ruder must run well, finishing Sports Writer Dunlop, Mike Smedley, and in the top four. Our numbers Derek Seiling. Seiling has run three through seven runners 
Ranked seventh nationally, a 9:01 3000 meter steeple must also run well, as it will be the Notre Dame men's cross chase, and, according to Mike a nearly even meet." That may country team is primed and McWilliams, "Is running not be so easy for McWilliams ready for a successful 1993 extremely well, looking who has done little to no run­season, as they enter the sea­stronger than I've ever seen ning since Monday due to a son opener this weekend. him." bout with the flu. 
Opposing the talented Irish squad is an equally talented Rounding out the strong Irish McWilliams, who said he is Georgetown team. The Hoyas squad are junior J.R. Melaro, ready to run, echoed his are ranked just one spot below who has run a 30:12 10K and coach's sentiments. "It's defi­the Irish, and boast a formida­looks particularly strong this nitely going to be close. 
ble group of runners, including year, and freshman Matt They're a good team, right 1992 All-American Andy Dowin Althoff. behind us in the rankings. and freshman sensation "In order for us to win," stat­feel it will come down to one or 
Brendan Hefferman, who won ed Piane, "McWilliams and two points." the Kinney high school champi­
onship last year. 

This Week in Notre Dame Sports
The Hoyas also have the advantage of running on their 
Home Opener Week Continues!
home course, and will undoubt­edly be looking to avenge the seven point loss they suffered 

((~
against the Irish last season. The Irish look to extend their 
Be there when the ~ 
streak to seven straight victo­ries over Georgetown with 
MEN'S SOCCER TEAM 
some talent of their own. 

opens their home season. 
Leading the team this year will be senior captain Mike McWilliams, who will be seek­ing a fourth consecutive All­
Friday, September 1Oth 
American recognition, and is, according to Coach Joe Piane, 
Men's Soccer vs. Butler 
"One of the best runners the 
7:30pm

Notre Dame program has ever enjoyed." 
Alumni Field (adjacent to Ivy Road)
Junior runner Nate Ruder, who ran a 14:06 5K at the NCAA Championships last year, will also be looked to for lead­ership, as well as standout 
FREE admission with Blue & Gold Card 
Party at The Works!! 
The Works Bar and Grill Presents 




Rock and Blues This Saturday Night! 5 to 10 pm-NO COVER CHARGE!! 
Must Be 21 to enter.
1A 


:rt~i)J,.\l; \ ~~ 
501 N. Niles Avenue
W9.~.~s 


237-9757 
Campus Bible Study 
All students are invited to take part in a Christian Bible Study directed by Rev. Al 0'Alonzo. Join us from 7 ..sp.m. in the Campus Ministry 
conference room in Badin Hall. Sessions will begin Tuesday, Sept. 14 and meet every Tuesday during the semester. Bring your Bible and bring a friend. 

0MPUS

For more information, call631..5242. 
MINISTRY 


......

TODAY 
Friday, September 10, 1993 page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THEFARSIDE GARY LARSON 


Ofi, I'M NoT. r :TVST DON'f lr!INK THAT'S MOVINl':! 
FAS'f ENOVGHI 


ACROSS 25 In a fury, as a 55 Hypocrite: Matt. 
OF INTEREST 

BILL WATTERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
The heartbreak of remoras. 

mob 23:27
1 "-,amas,l 
29 Young man (or 58"... hour at 
love a lass": J. 
woman) who -":Burns
O'Keeffe 
went west 59 Book of the Old 
4 Actress Rehan 

32 What a Testament 
7Down-out 
conundrum aoSamara 10 Some noncoms needs producer 13 Damage 33 Stick 61 Oral surgeon's 14 Of a more 34 Eggs, to Cato deg. cheerful nature 35 D.C. group for 62 Haw's opposite 16 Juin's art's sake 63 Norm: Abbr. predecessor 36 Risers at Oxford 64 Cobb of 17 State flowers of 39 Loft 
baseball and namesakes
Md. 43 Farm 20 Cunctatious implements 21 Gluts 44 Allen film: 1973 
DOWN 

22 Bureau or auto 46 Place for a toque tag-on 47 Interface 1 Mystery writer Eric
23 Actress Gray of 48 Greek vowels 
2 Disease 
TV 49 Had Ia grippe 
transmitted by 
24 Feminine name 54"-Most 
mosquitoes
ending Unusual Day" 3 Bryan discourse 4Quiz 5 Club fees 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Writer Seton 7 Aptly named assistant 
27 Diehard's cry 40 Archeologist's 50 "Got it!" 

8 Headland 
28 Whitman's find 51 Cash in Albania 

9 Joanne of films 41 Disparaging
"Leaves of-" 52 Finials
:tliDJffi!l]~:tlltj~il·l 10 Brighter 29 Ruers' word 53 Siegmund­-:+.=+:-t:.=:-t=:-i 11 Dugong 's 
42 In a strained 
sensations Sieglinde

relative manner 
30 Nonpareil 43 Squiffed number 

12 Dreiser's "­
56 Meas. of brain

.-:::-r.::-+.::-1 Carrie" 31 "World's busiest 45 Prepares for war 
waves
airport" again
49 Trimming tool 57 A legal deg. 
36 Surged, in a way 

...l.W.m~~~~~~ trap
II! 18 Small change 37 Vichy premier -::+7+::+::-+:::....j 19 Tantrum in (1940-44) and Get answers to any three clues public family 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

-:+-:+.=+:~:-! 26 "And-a big 38 That is, to 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

red rose" Tacitus 
quest to the American 
you're passing along a precious legacy. The gift of life. That's because your contribution supports research that could save your descendants from America's number one killer. 
To learn more about the Planned Giving Program, call us today. It's the first step in making a memory that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
:t!
0 American Heart Association 
DINING HALL 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, September 10, 1993 
Freshtnen could be key for wotnen's first NCAA bid 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

Every year they take another successful step toward their goal. 
In 1990 the Notre Dame women's soccer team rolled to a 16-3-1 record, proving to all doubters that it was a powerful, talented squad deserving of national recognition 
The upstart squad responded in 1991 by going 15-2-3, receiving its first ever national ranking, and capturing the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship in its first year of league play. Notre Dame was ranked sixteenth at the end of the season by the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America. 
Last year, the Irish faced a schedule which fea­tured seven top-20 teams, four of which finished in the top six. The relatively inexperienced squad, which started five freshmen, three sophomores, two juniors and one senior, battled to a 13-5-1 record, claimed its second straight MCC crown and closed the season ranked fifteenth by the ISAA. It barely missed qualifying for the twelve team national tournament. 
Under the guidance of fourth year head coach Chris Petrucelli, this year's edition of the Notre Dame women's soccer team is prepared not only to climb the final steps separating it from its first birth in the now 16-team national tournament, but also to deface several of national powerhouses which it competes against this season. 
With ten returning starters and a freshman class described by Soccer America as one of the best recruiting classes in the last two years among all programs at the NCAA Division I level, the Irish feel they have the talent and the experience to prove that they are worthy of the respect given to other national forces. 
"Talent-wise, we can match-up with anyone in the country," said Petrucelli. "But we are an unproven team right now. We have not proven that we can win the big game." 
Currently seeded 12th by the ISAA, the Irish 
see WOMEN I page19 
This is positively men's season 

By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
There is a new attitude on the men's soccer team this year. 
Classified by senior captain Mike Palmer as positive and laid back, he said it has pervaded the team from the play­ers to the coaches-especially fourth­year head coach Mike Berticelli. 
For the first time since he began coaching, all the players on the team were recruited by Berticelli who has compiled a 28-23-7 record at Notre Dame including last year's 11-7-2 squad. The freshman class, his third impressive recruiting class in as many years, may have something to do with this attitude. 

The freshmen have been called hard­working by both Palmer and Berticelli, and apparently have had little problem fitting in with the rest of the team. 
"One of the assets of this team is the unity," said freshman midfielder Tony Capasso. "I feel like I've known them (the upperclassmen) for years." 
That unity and new attitude seem to have already started paying off for the Irish. In a pre-season match-up against then No. 2 Indiana, Notre Dame played well losing only 3-2. 
Notre Dame then opened their season last weekend with an exciting tourna­ment victory at the Indiana Met-Life Classic. The Irish were awarded the championship trophy of the round-robin tournament, which ended with all teams winning one game and losing another, because they had scored the most goals of the four teams competing. 
Berticelli and the Irish hope that this wave of optimism continues tonight as they face the Butler Bulldogs in Notre Dame's home opener. 
The team has seven returning starters, including sophomore forward Bill Lanza who spent last semester in Australia with the under-20 National Team and part of the summer with them again in Spain. 
As they look forward to the season, 
see MEN I page21 

Inside SPORTS 


Backfield Beset 
Paul Failla is listed as questionable after injuring his right thumb. 
see page 17 
Irish look for third win this weekend 
When Rosella Guerrero booted Jodi Hartwig's crossing pass into the top right corner of the Badger goal in last year's match against then 16th ranked Wisconsin-Madison. it did much more than clinch the sixth Irish victory of the season. 
[t marked the first time in Notre Dame women's soccer history that the squad defeated a nationally ranked opponent. 
Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli labeled the victory as "the biggest win of my career and in the history of the program." 
This season's rendition of the contest holds equal import, as the Badger's represent Notre Dame's first top-20 opponent. 
Wisconsin is a well organized, physi­cal team which doesn't allow many goals. It will be led by sophomore for­ward Cary Walch, who scored five goals and added four assists last sea­so~L 
"I think we match up well," said Petrucelli, whose 12th ranked squad is aiming to extend its season-opening winning streak to three games. "The question is whether we'll score. 
"It's going to be a great game," he added. "I wish I could sit in the stands." 
-BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Soccer and Volleyball 
The Belles travel to Depauw and Oberlin respectively. 
see page 16 

Cross Country 

Mike McWilliams leads the Irish against ranked rival Georgetown. 
see page 22 



Rick Minter puts his stamp on the Notre Dame defense 
H
is deep Texarkana twang comes in quick bursts, like a gust of wind on a hot sum­mer day. 
Over the crackling sound of colliding pads, he shouts instructions. 
Shift right, shift right. 
"There is no 
question that our defense has to be the strength of our team." 
-Lou H0 1tz two or three 
Head Coach words he corrects a missed coverage or criti­cizes a lack of effort. 
Work means more than words. Results come from repetition not ranting. 
Results came slowly at first for Minter, who joined the Irish staff before the 1992 season. 
A year earlier, Notre 
Use two hands. Quick feet. 
Notre Dame defensive coordi­nator Rick Minter doesn't need to make speeches to get his players' attention. With 
Mike Miller and the Irish offense face a tough task. -see page 2 
Tyrone Wheatley paces the Michigan attack. 
-see page 3 
An in-depth look at Notre Dame's new 4-3 defense 
-see page 7 

Dame's defense limped to the finish line, allowing 112 points in its final three games, including an unbe­lievable 42 against hapless Hawaii. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz plucked his former Arkansas graduate assis­tant from Ball State 
"The de­

to clean up the 
fense readily
mess. 
accepts the
It was a familiar 
challenge of
situation for Minter, who had being called 
helped build upon to lead respectable defens­this team." es at Louisiana Tech, North -Rick Minter Carolina State, and Defensive Coordinator 
New Mexico State before joining the Irish. 
At Ball State, he molded the Cardinals into one of the nation's top defensive teams, finishing in the top 20 in three defensive cate­gories in his final season. 
"I've had the opportunity 
see MINTER/page 6 
,­



QUARTERBACKS 
Collins isn't flashy but strong-armed and con­sistent. 
RUNNING BACKS 
~ 

Wheatley is arguably the best back in the country and as a unit they are second to none 
RECEIVERS 
Some say Alexander is better than Desmond Howard and the rest can fly. 
0-UNE 
~ 

This may be their weakness, but when has Michigan ever had a bad offensive line? 
D-LINE 
[!] 

Lacking the standout from year's past, but still solid. Buster Stanley is top performer. 
LINEBACKERS 
I!J 
Matt Dyson and Steve Morrison make this unit one of the best in the country. 
SECONDARY 
l2J 
Shame Peoples and Ty Law are future NFL starters and Burch and Winters are talented. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
I!J 

Kick returners are Wheatley and Alexander. Enough said. Kicking game is solid. 
COACHING 
L2J 

Gary Moeller has built a winner and proven he can win the big one's against the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE 
t:;i!-.1 
~ 

Michigan is loaded in almost every area. Could win national title this year. 
Talented Wolverine offense presents problems 
By BRIAN KUBICKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Michigan's offense comes com­plete. 
It has the powerful running game. It has the flashy receivers. It has the unforgettable names. It even has the 
questions to keep opposing coaches thinking they have a chance. 
Those questions hover around the Wolverine's young offensive line. 

Trazelle Jenkins (6-8, 298) at left tackle is the only lineman to start consistently last season. 
The only other player with starting experience from last season, Shawn Miller (6-5, 280), a junior at left guard, takes that experience from only three starts. 
Senior Marc Milia (6-3, 275) takes over the center spot left by All­American Steve Everitt's graduation. Sophomores Jay Marinaro (6-4, 294) and Mike Sullivan (6-7, 299) anchor the right side of a line that makes up for its inexperience by sheer size. The line averages almost 290 pounds a man. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz, however, isn't about to think that Michigan's inexperience at line is a great weak­ness. 
"The offensive line will always be good at the University of Michigan," he said matter-of-factly. 
Michigan coach Gary Moeller still has his concerns. "We have a long way to go with the offensive line. We're a running team and we have to run the ball this week." 
His concern may be due to more than his offensive line. 
Two of Notre Dame's top three tacklers from last week were line­men. Bryant Young led the way at 
Michigan defense loaded with talent 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
For Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz, finding a weak­ness in the Michigan defense may be an exer­cise in futility. 

Wolver­i n e s return n i n e starters from a defensive 
T h 
team that has held its opponents to under 100 yards rushing in nine of Michigan's last 12 games. 
In last week's 41-14 win over Washington State, the Wolverines limited the Cougars to a total of 82 yards rushing. 
In the last two years, one of the most prolific offens­es in Notre Dame history, starring Rick Mirer, Jerome Bettis, and Reggie Brooks, has managed to score just two touchdowns 
in each game, the first  a  
24-14 loss, the second  a  
17-17 tie.  

All this amounts to an unbelievable challenge for Holtz and the Irish, and one that is invariably the key to the game. An inex­perienced offense must establish a running game and complement it with a successful passing game against an extremely tal-left tackle with 13 tackles, while Brian Hamilton, left end, was third with 7 tackles. The play of Jim Flanigan and Oliver Gibson helped their fellow linemen hold the Wildcats to only 2.4 yards per carry. 


The seemingly limitless supply of Wolverine running backs will make it difficult for the Irish defensive line to repeat last week's performance. Heisman Trophy candidate Tyrone Wheatley tallied 117 yards on only 15 carries last week and Ricky Powers and Ed Davis combined for 50 more yards. 
Stopping that powerful attack may take more help than the Notre 
ented and experienced defense. 
It will be hard to exploit the Michigan defensive backfield, with such expe­rienced starters and big play performers as senior corner Alfie Burch, senior strong safety Shonte Peoples, and sophomore corner Ty Law. The Wolverienes will also mix in redshirt freshman Chuck Winters, true fresh­man Clarence Thompson, and junior Deon Johnson to produce one of the deepest defensive back­fields in the country. 
The Michigan lineback­ing corps that also can be compared favorably to any in the country. Two-year starter Steve Morrison anchors the unit, and he is flanked by outside line­backer Matt Dyson, who is coming otT a calf injury but is expected to start. The Wolverines also return junior Marcus Walker. 
On the defensive front, Michigan returns three starters in seniors Buster Stanley and Ninef Aghakhan and junior Tony Hendersen, while senior Gannon Dudlar has secured the other outsidE. linebacker spot. 
"You hope you can con­trol the football against them but nobody controls the football against the University of Michigan," Dame's defensive line has got. 

Not only did they lose some depth with the injury of tackle Paul Grasmanis, but the linebackers behind them are suffering, as well. Anthony Peterson Notre Dame's top returning tackler from last season, injured his knee in last week's game against Northwestern and is expect­ed to miss at least four weeks. 
Justin Goheen filled in solidly to finish the game, but the Irish lose a lot of speed without Peterson, which will affect both their reaction to the run and their coverage of the pass. 
Blitzing is a problem according to Holtz, because Michigan will give the quarterback maximum protection, leaving a mismatch for their receivers. 
Notre Dame's secondary is experi­enced and talented enough to handle the man coverage of a blitz. The four starters, Greg Lane, Jeff Burris, John Covington, and Bobby Taylor com­bined for 21 tackles and six broken­up passes, while Brian Magee added ten tackles and broke up one more pass. 
Michigan's receivers will test any secondary in any coverage. Senior Derrick Alexander and sophomore Amani Toomer are listed as the probable starters for Saturday's game, but Mercury Hayes led all of Michigan's receivers with six catches for 105 yards last week and Walter Smith snagged three catches for 36 yards. 
"Once they catch the ball they're very, very dangerous when they get in the secondary," Holtz said. 
About all they need is someone who can get the ball within their reach. That job goes to Todd Collins. 
Holtz doesn't think Michigan loses anything with Collins taking the snaps instead of Elvis Grbac who graduated. He even said Collins is a little more mobile than Grbac. 
said Holtz, "Or at least we haven't been able to in the eight years that I've been here. 
"They're a very sound defensive football team, very talented as well. You have to be impressed with Mnrrison ... Dyson ...I think Peoples the strong safety is an excellent football play­er." 
Maybe this is one week where Holtz's etrernal pes­simism is warranted, unless you listen to Michigan coach Gary Moeller. 
"Notre Dame has always figured out how to score points against us," said Moeller, "When you have Taylor and Ruddy you have the start of a great offensive line, any back could find holes in that line. Not that who they have is not good ... Lee Bec­ton will eventually carry the Notre Dame offense. He's a very big, strong back with good speed." 
Quarterback Kevin McDougal must get the ball to big play receivers Lake Dawson, Derrick Mayes, Clint Johnson, and Mike Miller and All-American candidate Oscar McBride must also get into the flow of the offense from his tight end spot. 
If the Irish hope to have any success in the running game they must do what Holtz says is next to impos­sible-control the football. 
QUARTERBACKS 
McDougal showed potential against Northwestern but more improvement needed. 
RUNNING BACKS 
Both Becton and Zellars looked solid, but solid doesn't gain yards against Michiigan. 
RECEIVERS 
Made great catches ;ast week and will pull its load against the Wolverines. 
0-LINE 
Leaning towards a "3" but potential inflates rating. 
D-LINE 
Solid against North­western and could make differnce against young Michigan 0-line. 
LINEBACKERS 
Loss of Peterson pushes group down a slot. Goheen a solid replacement. 
SECONDARY 
Talent is d~ere, and last week's performance solidifies ranking. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Mike Miller doesjob on returns and kicking is solid, but punting needs work. 
COACHING 
Holtz is Holtz. He will keep Irish in the game bur he can't do it all. 
FINAL SCORE 
Irish most certainly will improve on last week, but are well behind in terms ofoverall talent. 

Friday, September 10, 1993 page 3 

Wheatley could be nation's top back 
By KEN SUGIURA Robichaud in Inkster, Mich. was followed each with Michigan Daily Football Writer countless sports camps in the summer. Football has taken over now and it has consumed 
Amani Toomer, a wide receiver for the Michigan him. football team, is talking about his teammate Tyrone "His work ethic is tremendous. He works hard in Wheatley. practice, he really does," says his running back 
Wheatley, a junior tailback, is one of the best play-coach, Fred Jackson. "He's a guy who goes his ers in college football and a candidate ,..--,-------------.hardest working on each tech-
for the Reisman trophy. 
Toomer is asked what one might find Wheatley doing in the locker room. Probably something like con­centrating on the next game or maybe sitting by himself, figuring out exactly how many yards it will take to win the Reisman, right? 
"You might find him playing with his little squirt guns just squirting them around," Toomer says. 
There is something about the aura and perception of a superstar athlete such as Wheatley that does not quite include a water pistol. 
But apparently this is the case with Wheatley who has rocketed to the top of the college football world but has left his personality where it has always been: down to earth. 
"I remember last year he'd come by our room and he's talk to me and my roommate and stuff," Toomer said. "I think when I first came here I was a little overwhelmed because he was so close to us. Usually you come in and think, the big-time players are going to be a little unpleasant. It was surprising." 
Wheatley has a natural talent that shows in almost all that he does. To begin with, he has a rare combination of size and speed. Measuring in at six­foot-one and a solid 225 pounds, he can run 40 yards in 4.3 seconds. With a 10.35-second time in 100 meters, Wheatley fits the mold of a world-class sprinter as opposed to a Big Ten tailback. 
He has an unceasing drive to succeed. He said he has not had a break from sports since the beginning of high school. 
A school year of football, basketball, and track at 

of playing sports, for something to Tyrone Wheatley is a Heisman Trophy frontrunner as he enters sum up why I don't take the summer off. his third year in Ann Arbor. It's not just what he does in the summer, but what r----=---------------------~ 
nique. He's always all eyes, all ears, trying to learn what he can." 
Wheatley says that while the reason he is so driven has always been clear to him, a sermon in a chapel service before last week's Washington State game finally put his motivation into words for him. 
"The man giving the sermon said, 'With privilege comes responsibility,'" he said. "I was looking for something all my years 
he does in games, as well. 

Fighting back spasms and a numbed right leg, Wheatley smoked Washington for 235 yards on 15 carries and three touchdowns before the injuries claimed him in the fourth quarter. His thrilling 88­yard touchdown run was the longest in Rose Bowl history. 
But he will also be modest and self-effacing when not in uniform, giving credit to his teammates and not getting caught up in the spotlight. 
But one would expect Wheatley to hold at least some aspiration of winning the Reisman, but this superstar's sights are set on a greater goal, one that surpasses individual goals. 
''I'm not out there playing for Tyrone Wheatley because if I was I'd have 'Tyrone Wheatley University' written across my chest," he explained. ''I'm playing for the University of Michigan. I'm not playing for the polls. I'm not playing for the Reisman" 
Photo courtesy ot Michigan Sports Information 
0 
T 
H 
E
R S 
T 
0 
w 
A T 
c 
H 
MERCURY HAYES (9) Sophomre wideout not listed as a starter but led Michigan in receiving last week against Washington State with eight catches for 105 yards. 

SHONTE PEOPLES (3) 

Preseason All-American had an interception and six tackles in last week 41-14 win. 

Party 

Special 
DOMINATOR 
ONE TOPPING 
TWO 
FOR 

$18.95 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 
X·lAJIGE 
PIZZA 
ONE rOPPING 
$6.9Seaeh 
ADDITIONAL 
PIZZAS ••• 
$s.oo eaeh 
(limit4) 
Extra Toppings 
~.oo each 
perpizza 
Valid at ~ng star.. on~. Not void wttll orrv-ollor. 
• Pllces may vary. Cus1oow pafS soles lox where oppiCXJ~e. Oelvery oraos lirrilod to enoura solo driving. OUr drivm CXJny loss
aI
• • lion $20.00. o..-mivors oro not penalized for late deltvortos. 
• · • 1993 Soul! Bend Pizzo Corp., tnc:. United nme Ofler. 
\ 
page 4 The Observer • F00113ALL MONDAY Friday, September 10, 1993 
WOLVERINES 
Gary Moeller 
Twenty-second year at Michigan (fourth as head coach). Career Records: Overall 35-29-6; at Michigan 29-5-3; in Bowl Games 2-1-0; vs. Notre Dame 1-1-1 
Previous Coaching Experience: Miami (OH) (2 seasons as assistant). Illinois (3 seasons as head coach), Michigan (18 seasons as assistant from 1969-76 and 1980-1989) 
.45 Mike Vanderbeek LB 6-1 225 Fr. 

Career Highlights: Last second victory over Ohio State 
46 Marcus Walker LB 5-11234 Jr. 

to earn a share of the Big Ten Championship in his 
Dave Oobreff LB 6-3 230 Sr. 

first season as U of M's head coach; Has led 
Earnest Sanders DB 6-4 190 Fr. 

Michigan to Big Ten Championship each of his three
50 Julian Norment LB 6-0 241 Fr. 

years as head coach; 1993 Rose Bowl victory over
·51 George Howell LB 6-3 230 Fr. 
52 Rod Payne C 6-3 280 Fr. 
Washington. Fr. 53 Ben Huff LB 6-4 234 Fr. ·..SO. 54 Joe Ries C 6-4 260 Fr. 

-----1993 Statistics----­
Jr. 55 Gannon Dudlar DT 6-4 267 Sr. 

UoiM Opp 
Defense
St.. 56 Harold Goodwin OG 6-2 282 Fr. 
200 So. 57 Shawn Miller OG 6·5 285 Jr. 

FIRST DOWNS 23 14 
T A Tot PBU Sacks lot
.. 215 Fr. 58 R. VanderLeest OG 6-4 255 So. 

Rushing 9 5 
Winters 6 0 6 1 0.0 0
Passing 12 6
Er. 59 Kerwin Waldroup DT 6-3 235 Fr. 

Peoples 5 1 6 0 0.0 1 
p~~~ 2 3
235 St\. 60 Buster Stanley DT 6-2 273 Sr. 

Burch 4 1 5 0 0.0 0
1n So. 61 Mike Sullivan OT 6-7 298 So. 

Horn 3 1 4 0 0.0 0
Total Offensive Plays 78 59 
.·· ~ 62 Ante Skorpu1 OG 6-3 291 So. 

Law 4 0 4 1 1.0 0
Total Net Yards 453 220Sa 65 Marc Elliott Ol 6-3 238 Jr. 
Dudlar 3 0 3 0 0.0 0
Yards Per Game 453.0 220.0 
Irons 2 1 3 0 0.0 0
65 Eric Wendt OG 6-3 287 Fr. 

Yards Per Play 5.8 3.7 
Charles 2 1 3 0 0.0 0
Rushing Attempts 47 26
~-66 S. Rekowski DT 6-5 273 Sr. 

Anderson 2 1 3 0 0.0 0
Yards Rushing 179 82 
...~. 67 Marc Milia . G 6-3 272 Sr. 

B. Powers 2 0 2 0 0.0 0
Rush Yards Per Game 179.0 82.0
• ~.:· 68 Zach Adamt OL 6-5 272 Fr. 

Zenkcwicz 2 0 2 0 0.0 0
Yards Passing 274 138
.1 ,..., 69 Jon Runyan OT 6-8 271 Fr. 

Morrison 2 0 2 0 0.0 0
Pass Yards Per Game 274.0 138.0 
D. Johnson 1 1 2 0 0.0 0
70 Mark Bolach OT 6-5 260 Fr. 

Passes Attempted 31 33 71 Michael Mangan LB 6-0 214 Fr. 
Hankins 2 0 2 0 0.0 0
Passes Completed 20 19 
Thompson 0 2 2 0 0.0 0
72 John Partchenko OT 6-4 285 Fr. 

Passes Had Intercepted 0 1 
Rekowski 1 0 1 0 0.0 0
Fumbles-Lost 2-0 1-1
73 Joe Marinaro OT 6-4 290 So. 

Stanley 1 0 1 0 0.0 0
Penalties-Yards 5-60 8-49
75 Thomas Guynes OT 6·5 298 Fr. 

Waldroup 1 0 1 0 0.0 0
Interceptions-Yards 1-0 0-0
76 Trent Zenk.ewicz OT 6-5 263 So. 

King 1 0 1 0 0.0 0
Punts-Average 4-39.9 6-40.0 
Davis 1 0 1 0 0.0 0
77 T. Jenkins OT 6·8 298 So. 

Punt Returns-Yards 3-8 2-13 78 Paul Barry OG 6-3 274 So. 
Buff 1 0 1 0 0.0 0
Kickoff Returns-Yards 1-50 7-173 
Pryce 0 1 1 0 0.0 0
79 Tony Henderson MG 6-2 256 Jr. 

Possesion time 32:43 27:17 
Third Down Conversions 10-16 5-14
80 Marc Burkholder TE 6-3 244 Sr. 

*PBU-Passcs Broken Up
Percentage .625 .357
81 Glen Steele TE 6-5 255 Fr. 82 John Jaeckin TE 6·2 242 Jr. 
Scoring 
Punting
83 Todd Richards WR 6·0 170 So. 84 F. Malveaux WR 6-0 171 Jr. 

1993 MICHIGAN
TD PAT FG Tot 
No Avg Blkd Long
85 Damon Jones TE 6-6 230 Fr. 

SCHEDULE AND RESULTS
86 Seth Smith WR 6·1 195 Fr. 

Hayes 2 0-0 0-0 12 . Stapleton 4 39.3 0 47 
88 Pierre Cooper TE 6·3 220 Fr. 

Elezovic 0 5-5 1-1 8 90 Ninef Aghakhan OT 6·3 279 Sr. 
Powers 1 0-0 0-0 6 Toomer 1 0-0 0-0 6
91 Matt Dyson LB 6-5 252 Jr. 
KO Returns

Wheatley 1 0-0 0-0 6
92 Stephen Evans LB 6-4 219 Fr. 

Lovell 0 0-0 1-1 3
93 Ray Edmonds MG 6-1 275 Fr. 

No Avg TD Long 94 Jason Horn MG 6·5 253 Jr. 95 Bobby Powers LB 6-D 233 Jr. 
1 50.0 0 50

Field Goals 
96 William Carr DT 6-2 275 Fr. 99 Damon Denson DT 6·5 270 Fr. 

Punt Returns

0-39 40-49 50+ long
99 Paul Peristeris P 6-D 206 Fr. Lovell 1-1 0-0 0-0 27 No Avg TD Long Elezovlc 1-1 0-0 0-0 24 2 9.0 0 9 
Ths Observer/Brendan Regan 
1 -10.0 0 -10 


Score by Quarters Passing 

---~------~-~ -~-------·-------------~------­
--~--~--~-----­
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
FIGHTING IRISH 

Lou Holtz 
~ 
, Seventh year at Notre Dame. 
Records at Notre Dame: Overall67-18-1; at Home 34-7-1; on the Road 33-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall183-83-6; in Bowl Games 9­6-2; vs. Michigan 4-4-1. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 seasons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: #3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset #3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. 

-----1993 Statistics 
ND  NU  
FIRST DOWNS Rushing  17 10  21 7  T  A  
Passing Penalty  5 2  11 3  Young Magee  10 6  3 4  
Total Offensive Plays Total Net Yards Yards Per Game Yards Per Play Rushing Attempts Yards Rushing Rush Yards Per Game Yards Passing Pass Yards Per Game Passes Attempted Passes Completed Passes Had Intercepted Fumbles-Lost Penalties-Yards Interceptions-Yards  54 308 308.0 5.7 46 162 162.0 146 146.0 11 9 0 1-1 7-61 1-21  69 319 319.0 4.6 34 81 81.0 238 238.0 35 23 1 2-1 10-86 0-0  Hamilton Lane Taylor Gibson Covington Burris Flanigan Bereich Goheen Knight Peterson Sample Zellars Clark Berry  3 6 6 5 5 4 3 2 3 2 2 2 1 1 1  4 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0  
Punts-Average  4-40.7  5-35.8  
Punt Returns-Yards  1-9  0-0  

Kickoff Returns-Yards  1-17  4-76  *PBU-Passes Broken Up  
Possesion time  25:25  34:35  
Third Down Conversions  3-9  8-15  
Percentage  .333  .533  
Fourth Down Conversions  0-0  0-1  

1993 NOTRE DAME
Scoring 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 

TD  PAT  FG  Tot  
0  3-3  2-2  9  
1  0-0  0-0  6  
1  0-0  0-0  6  
1  0-0  0-0  6  
Field Goals  

0-39 40-49 50+ Long Pendergast 2·2 0-0 0-0 29 


Score by Quarters 
1 2 3 4 
7 0 10 10 
0 6 6 0 
Rushing 
Att. Yards Avg /Game TD 
16 72 4.5 72.0 0 
14 67 4.8 67.0 1 4 26 6.5 26.0 0 1 8 8.0 8.0 0 1 4 4.0 4.0 0 1 4 4.0 4.0 0 1 2 2.0 2.0 1 1 -2 -2.0 0 
Defense 
Tot PBU Sacks Int 
13 0 2.0 0 
10 1 0.0 0 7 0 0.0 0 6 1 0.0 0 6 1 0.0 0 6 0 0.5 0 5 2 0.0 0 4 2 0.0 0 4 0 1.0 0 4 0 0.0 1 3 0 0.5 0 3 0 1.0 0 2 0 0.0 0 2 0 0.0 0 1 0 0.0 0 1 0 0.0 0 1 0 0.0 0 
Punting 
No Avg Blkd Long Leonard 4 40.7 0 55 
KO Returns 
No Avg TD Long Miller 1 17.0 0 17 
Punt Returns 
No  Avg  TD Long  
Miller  9.0  0  9  
Passing  

Total 
27  A-C-1 Com% Yards  /Game  TD  Long  
12  
McDougal  8-6-0  75.0  135  135.0  0  50  
Failla  3-3-0  100.0  11  11.0  0  11  
Long  Receiving  
16  
10  No.  Yards  Avg  TD  Long  
21  
8  Zellars  3  2  0.7  0  2  
4  Miller  2  57  28.5  0  50  
4  Johnson  2  34  17.0  0  23  
2  Mayes  1  42  42.0  0  42  
-2  Dawson  1  11  11.0  0  11  


----The History of the Series---­
The Last Time: 
Notre Dame 17, Michigan 17 It looked like another miracle finish for ~--
the Irish at home when Jeff Burris inter-~ cepted Michigan QB Elvis Grbac with 1:05 
left in the game. Notre Dame had come from 10 down in the fourth quarter, but appeared to run out the clock with ques­
tionable play calling and failure to use a time-out and settle for the tie. The Wolverine signal caller had passed for-Elvis Grbac 242 yards and two TDs and was driving U of M for a score and the win when Burris halted the attempt. Irish receiver Lake Dawson had six receptions for 89 yards, while running backs Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks each ran for a touchdown on Notre Dame's behalf. 
The Records: 
Michigan leads 14-9-1 First Game: 1887 
(UM 8, ND 0) Last UM Win: 1991 (24-14) Last ND Win: 1990 (28-24) Longest Series Streaks: 
UM-8 (1887 -1908) ND-4 (1987-1990) 
Largest Margins of Victory: UM-23, 23-0 (1898 & 1902) ND-23, 35-12 (1943) 

NOTRE DAME 
FIGHTING IRISH 
1993 ROSTER· 
1. 2. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 
10. 11. 11. 12. 13. 14. 14. 15. 16. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 20. 21. 22. 22. 23. 24. 25. 25. 26. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 34. 35. 35. 36. 37. 38. 38. 39. 39. 40. 41. 42. 42. 43. 44. 
..., 


COVER STORY 
TOUCHDOWN FEVER Every time the Irish score a touch down, the first ten 
' 
callers to say, "Notre Dame Scored,"

beat michigan ~ 
buy 1 pizza at regular price 
Papa predicts: .Notre Dame 17 and get 1 pizza FREE! 
(equal or lesser value)
Northwestern 13 
Minter 
continued from page 1 
to coach at some wonderful places," Minter said. "I've worked under some great coaches who helped me learn the game and learn how to coach the game." 
Coaching seems to be more nature than nurture to Minter. He looks more comfortable on the football field than most people do lounging in a beanbag chair. 
A three-year starter at defensive end at Henderson (Texas) State, Minter graduated in 1977 and immediately went into coaching as a graduate assis­tant at his alma mater. 
A year later he took the same position at Arkansas under Holtz. 
"Having the opportunity to learn from Coach Holtz was a great experience for me as a young coach," Minter said. 
•• . 

-if
-~­
. . ;.'f 
/ -
. 
.-;,, 

• 
Players like Bryant Young have flourished since Minter took over in 1991. 
"There is no better teacher in the pro­fession." 
Any doubts that coaching was Minter's calling were swept away a decade ago when he got his first taste of the "real world." 
"In 1983, I was between coaching jobs and my father-in-law passed away. I felt my family needed me more than football, so I took a job in the securities business," Minter said. "It was good to see what life is like 'out there,' but I missed the game tremendously. I knew then that coaching was what I was meant to do." 
A position opened at New Mexico State in 1984. The securities business could live without Minter, but Minter couldn't live without football. 
He coached the Aggies' linebackers for a year before joining the Ball State pro­gram. 
Seven years later he inherited an Irish defense plagued with problems. It took some time to fix, as the players went 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

through some growing pains while adjusting to the new system. 
"We didn't have much time together at the beginning of last season. We just wanted to put some things in and see how we could play," Minter said. "It turned out we played like crap." 
Those growing pains soon turned into great plays and the Irish finished the season ranked 13th in rushing defense, allowing just 111.1 yards per game. In the final nine games of the season, they allowed just 280.3 total yards per game and five players made an All-American team. 
This year, Minter made a switch to a 4-3 defensive set (four linemen and three linebackers). The change was more of a response to personnel than a change in philosophy. 
"We've always had 4-3 personnel, but this year we have some good depth in the defensive line that enabled us to make this switch," Minter said. 
All-American Bryant Young anchors the line, along with returning starters Brian Hamilton and Jim Flanigan. Senior Oliver Gibson rounds out the starting defensive line. An injury to sophomore reserve tackle Paul Grasmanis stripped the line of some of its depth, but the starting front four have the talent to make up for the loss. 
In all, eight starters return this year to give Notre Dame its most feared defense since 1989 . 
Because Notre Dame's offense lacks experience and consistency, the defense is expected to be a life-preserver, keep­ing the Irish afloat while the offense searches for. 
"The defense readily accepts the chal­lenge of being called upon to lead the team," Minter said. "This year we have the experience with eight starters returning and the second year in the system. If ever there was a group who are ready to accept the pressure, it's a group of seniors. This year we have seven or eight seniors mixed in with some talented, young, energetic players. This is a group that can handle it." 
Last week against Northwestern the defense proved beyond any doubt that it is the strength of the Irish team. 
Linebacker Pete Bereich returned an interception for a touchdown on the first play of the game, and safety John Covington recovered a fumble deep in Wildcat territory to set up another score. 
"We have to create one cheap score a game, either scoring ourselves or setting up the offense for an easy score," Minter said. "That way we can help offset the deficiencies, if any, the offense may have, like they did for us last year." 
Despite creating the big turnovers. the defense was far from flawless. It looked suspect at times against a Northwestern offense that is mediocre at best. Quarterback Len Williams completed 23-35 passes for 238 yards, often while Notre Dame used six defensive backs to stop the pass. 
With mighty Michigan looming ahead, the securities business may be looking a little more appealing to Minter. 
Heisman Trophy candidate Tyrone Wheatley leads an overpowering offen­sive attack that includes tailback Ricky Powers and wide receiver Derrick Alexander. 
"Where do you begin to talk about Michigan's offense? They are very tal­ented at the skill positions and we respect their team speed," Minter said. "But we can't say we'll focus just on Wheatley or just on Alexander because they have too many weapons." 
He stalks the practice field with his notes in his hand, reviewing the defen­sive strategies that will neutralize those weapons. 
With quick bursts of that Texarkana twang, he reQ"Iinds his players of the mission and what they need to do to accomplish it. 
Intensity. Focus. 
This is what he was meant to do. 
~;:~~~;ci~r-------,r-P~y~~-1 I 1 i47;·t II 2-14:' Lapr?e :I 41... ~" L~rge I 
.. . arg.e II 1Topp1ng tzzas II 10pp1ng1 I 1 Topp~~g Ptzza II $1195 II Piztfs 1 1
-
I $5 I I +Tax I I $22-+Tax I
+Tax 

IAdditional Toppings .95' each ~-~ IAdditional Toppings 95¢ each ~-~
.________ ._.._______
I ~;;,.Valid Wirh Any Other Coupon ..J I Nor Valid Wirh Any Other Coupon 
Fast • Hot 

-

The Most Popular Number on Campus! 
HOURS 
M...Th ... 11:00 a.m.... 1:00 a.m. Fri...Sat ... 11:00 a.m.... 3:00a.m. Sun --Noon., 1:00 a.m. 
Friday, September 10, 1993 
Talented defensive line not only reason for switch 
The primary reason for the switch from a 3-4 defense-which utilizes three defensive lineman and four linebackers-to the 4-3, is the abun­dance of talent and depth at the defensive line positions. 
Oli':er Gibs.on, Brian Hamilton, Bryant Young and Jtm Flamgan make up an all-senior line. Paul Grasmanis, John Taliaferro, David Quist, and Ger­main Holden would start at almost any other school. The talent is obviously, there, but their are other factors which also pushed the Irish towards a new alignment. 
The loss of Demetrius 
DuBose and Brian Ratigan 
to graduation left the Irish 
with only two experienced 
linebackers returning. 
Anthony Peterson and Pete 
Bereich started the year in Brian Hamilton 
the inside, but a knee 
injury to Peterson against Northwestern leaves 
the Irish with only one seasoned linebacker start­
ing against Michigan, the best running team in 
the country. 
Another positive is that the Notre Dame sec­
ondary still functions the same as in the old 
defense. Their main formations in the 3-4 hold 
over into the new defense, with one exception. 
In the new defense, the cornerbacks will follow 
the two featured receivers no matter where they 
align. If against Michigan. Derrick Alexander and 
Mercury Hayes line up on the same side, Irish 
cornerbacks Bobby Taylor and Greg Lane would 
mark up on them. 
I_n a traditional defense the free safety would 
shtft over and cover one of the featured receivers, 
while the far side corner becomes a sort of free 
safety. 
But the strength of the Irish secondary is in 
their diversity, as each player can play either 
position. That allows for more switching of cover­
ages with no drop off in ability. 
The final reason for the switch to the 4-3 is 
that it is a formation defensive coordinator Rick 
Minter has used in the past and with great suc­
cess. 
---~------------------------­
Text: George Dohrmann 

Responsibility is key to success 
It would take a week to describe the hundreds of formations that the Irish defense uses. But breaking down Notre Dame's basic defense on first-and-ten gives an insight into the diversity of the 4-3 defense. 
The defensive line is the key to the new defense and their success depends on fulfilling their gap responsibilities. Their primary con­cern is to stop the run, as a first­and-ten count would traditionally signify a running play. 
They read the quarterback after the ball is snapped and pass rush accordingly. 
The key to a gap between offensive lineman is keeping your playside arm free. That is the arm which leads into the gap each lineman or linebacker is responsible for filling. If the right guard was hitting the gap between the center and left offensive tackle, his playside arm would be his right arm. 
A power running team like Michigan will "zone" block, which is where the offensive lineman step down to one side and block any play­er in their zone. The running back will then look for a whole in the zone to run through. 
It is crucial for the defensive play­er to get to the gap and hold his ground, stopping the formation of 

running lanes. 
Against a team I i k e
Michigan, it GAP RESPONSIBILITIES-The defensive lineman is crucial for linebackers are assigned to a gap in the offensive line. the lineman They must fill that gap, not allowing a lineman to force and linebackers th.em from out. Stunts are run where lineman and to step into the gap linebackers sw1tch gaps at the snap of the ball, and hold ground. If the but the responsibilty is still to close 
on commu­

the gap.
offense is able to push nication. Strong 
lineman from the gap, the 4-3 is ineffective. 
The linebackers share almost the same responsibility as the lineman but with variations. They are called upon more to blitz and stunt, but in the basic set their primary duty is to fill a gap and stop the run. 
If a pass play occurs the lineback­ers are assigned to a different zone to cover. The WILL linebacker (Renaldo Wynn) may be more inclined to blitz or cover a back, whereas the MIKE and SAM linebackers (Justin Goheen and Pete Bereich) will retreat to underneath zones in front of the defensive backs. 
The success of the defensive back-
safety John Covington will walk up just off the line of scrimmage and read the run first, with outside containment being his responsibility. If a pass is read, Covington sprints to cover the flat on his side looking for the back or tight end to release off the line. 
Free safety Jeff Burris is the last protection against the pass, he fills the middle zone, reading pass until a run is clearly shown. 
The corners, Greg Lane and Bobby Taylor, are primarily responsible for their side's deep third. If a run is read they will see how the receiver responds. If he attempts to block them they will shake the block, if he continues his route deep, they will flow with the receiver. 

Top teams face off in second week 
Southern Cal at #15 Penn State 
Southern Cal is coming ofT its first win for new­again coach Jon Robinson. They won't be able to show the type of domination they showed against Houston this weekend, but they should be up for the upset and a chance to crawl back into the polls. Penn State, on the other hand, gets a break from their Big Ten schedule after beating Minnesota for their first ever conference win. They won't take Southern Cal lightly, but you can't help but get the feeling that they are just warming up for their October 16 match-up against Michigan. 
#12 Washington at #16 Ohio State 
The Huskies have taken revenge on Bill Walsh and Stanford and now must get on with the rest of their season. Even without Don James, they are still in an excellent position for another Pac-10 title. Napolean Kaufman might get more than that if he can run his name past Marshal Faulk. and to do that he needs big games against ranked teams like Ohio State. The Buckeyes are ready to prove that they deserve the top-20 ranking which has been arguable in past years. The once perennial powerhouse of the Big Ten once again has a solid defense and good running backs. The romp over Rice is not much of an indication of how they will play against true competition, but the fans in Columbus think they're in the hunt for the roses. 
#21 Clemson at #1 Florida State 
If Lou Holtz doesn't believe that the Irish have a chance against Michigan, then the Tigers are prob­ably wondering if they should even show up. But Bobby Bowden knows as well as Lou Holtz that every game is a big one when you're ranked num­ber one. Charlie Ward is a proven winner who needs to preform well in games like these to keep in the Heisman hunt. Clemson's only hope is that 
1. 2. 3. 
4. 
Miami 

5. 
Texas A& 

6. 
Syracuse 

7. 
Florida 

8. 
Tennessee 

9. 
Nebraska 

10. 
Colorado 


11. Notre 
12. Washi 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 
20. Brigham YOU!lg 
21. Clemson22. Georgi(!  -~'  
23. Stanftrd  
24. Baylor  ,  ,  

25. Boston Colle~ ­
Others receiving Wisconsin 93, 
57, San Diego 18, West Vir Louisville 1 Mississip Fresno Mississippi St. 2, 
1535 1 1464 2 1426 3 1301 4 1225 5 1179 6 1097 8 1075 10 1057 9 1051 11 996 7 959 12 764 13 729 16 708 17 637 18 489 21 345 24 
327 
323 19 
288 22 
191 14 187 15 

153  PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (please no betting)  
116  20  #11 Notre Dame at #3 Michigan  Hawaii at #20 BYU  
Southern Cal at #15 Penn State  Kansas at Michigan State  
#12 Washington at #16 Ohio State  #21 Clemson at #1 Florida State  
#19 South Carolina at Arkansas  #7 Florida at Kentucky  


George Dohrmann  Jonathan Jensen  Guest Regis Philbin  Jen Manen  
(10-1)  (9-2)  (8-3)  (8-3)  
Michigan  Michigan  Notre Dame  Notre Dame  
Southern Cal  Penn State  Penn State  Penn State  
Washington  Washington  Washington  Ohio State  
South Carolina  South Carolina  Arkansas  South Carolina  
BYU  BYU  BYU  BYU  
Kansas  Kansas  Michigan State  Michigan State  
Florida State  Florida State  Florida State  Florida State  
Florida  Florida  Florida  Florida  
Mississippi State  Mississippi State  LSU  LSU  
Tennessee  Tennessee  Tennessee  Tennessee  
Alabama  Alabama  Alabama  Alabama  

Photo Courtesy of USC Sports lnformallion 
Quarterback Rob Johnson and USC face off against Penn State at State College. 
those whispers of "Miami... wide right," become distracting enough to make a difference. 
Kansas at Michigan State 

Kansas is favored and the game isn't inside although it isn't on grass. The Spartans are think­ing positively though. With the return of last year's stars like Jim Miller at QB, Mill Coleman at flanker, Rob Fredrickson at linebacker, and Steve Wasylk and the emergence of promising first-timers like Colin Cronin, are thinking of January. Look for Coleman, once called the greatest quarterback in Michigan high school history to get an invitation to the Downtown Athletic Club when the season ends. He is a talented receiver and surprising returner with enough athleticism to be the most versitile if not important player for Michigan State. 
Western Michigan at Purdue 
This game is interesting for its sheer unpre­dictability. The Broncos return only seven starters on the whole team, but the Mid American Conference has always played the Big Ten tough. What's worse is Purdue could be taking Northwestern's place at the bottom of the stand­ings. Before the season's over, they will be fighting Wisconsin , Minnesota, and the dark horse Iowa. This could be a true test for the Boilermakers. 
Hawaii at #20 BYU 

Hawaii was 11-2 last season and finished second in the WAC. This is one of only three away games for the Rainbow Wariors which could be trouble. However, Provo is not reknown for its inhospitable nature. Maybe Cougar fans will bore the islanders to inability, they may have to do something though, because Hawaii likes to play spoiler to the Cougars. Remember Ty Detmer's post-Heisman perfor­mance. 
JOCK STRIP 
Can Irish beat Michigan? Maybe, maybe not 
.-----------.1

M
aybe Lou Holtz has something 
up his sleeve. Like an offense. 
He has undoubtedly devised a game plan that could defeat mighty Michigan Saturday in Ann Arbor. 
But offensively, all he has are doubts. 
Doubts about who should play quarter­back. Doubts about who should start at 


guard. Doubts about whether or not his team will ever win another football Jason Kelly game. 
"I'm very discouraged with the play of our offense," Holtz said. "Right now, we are a bad football team on offense." 
Maybe Holtz needs to pick a quarterback. 
Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla shared time against Northwestern and both looked adequate. But adequate won't beat Michigan. 
Holtz didn't blame his quarterbacks for the offensive inef­fectiveness. He said that penalties and missed blocking assignments, mistakes out of the quarterbacks' control, led to many of the problems. 
"And there has also been a reluctance on my part to throw the ball a great deal," Holtz said. 
When the Irish did throw the ball against Northwestern, the quarterbacks looked tentative. With another quarter­back standing ready on the sidelines, any mistake becomes magnified. 
As a result, McDougal and Failla tiptoed through many plays, more concerned about losing their position than losing the game. 
Competition for a position is good in the preseason, but when games are on the line, a quarterback can't be looking over his shoulder. 
Maybe linebacker Pete Bereich and safety Jeff Burris should play offense full-time. They seem to be the only Irish players who know how to score inside the 20-yard line. 
Bereich returned an interception for a touchdown on the first play of last week's game against Northwestern, and Burris-a part time running back-scored from the two-yard for one of Notre Dame's few offensive highlights. 
Problems with goal line and short yardage situations plagued the Irish throughout the Northwestern game, a re­sult of inexperience at almost every offensive position. 
"I was very disappointed with our goal line and short yardage plays, especially on third down," Holtz said. "I think at least half of our third down opportunities were third and three or less and we didn't get the job done. That's some­thing we've excelled in in the past, but we weren't very suc­cessful." 
Maybe Holtz should play offensive guard. 
After the Northwestern game he considered moving tack­les Aaron Taylor and Todd Norman back to their natural guard position, but he changed his mind. 
Instead, the main competitors for the positions will be Dusty Zeigler, Will Lyell, Mark Zataveski and Ryan Leahy. And maybe even Holtz himself. 
"It will be between the four guys who played last year," Holtz said, but he didn't sound too enthused about his options. "We have a couple of guards who just found ou last week that we wear blue. I may even play the position myself." 
He hasn't said whether or not he changed his mind abou that. 
Maybe all the offensive flaws against Northwestern were just a decoy, part of a plan to make Michigan overconfident. 
Maybe not. 
LSU at Mississippi State #22 Georgia at #8 Tennessee #2 Alabama at Vanderbilt 
~ 
;A. 


Jason Kelly  Brian Kubicki  
(8-3)  (8-3)  
Michigan  Michigan  
Penn State  Penn State  
Washington  Ohio State  
South Carolina  South Carolina  
BYU  BYU  
Kansas  Michigan State  
Florida State  Florida State  
Florida  Florida  
Mississippi State  Mississippi State  
Tennessee  Georgia  
Alabama  Alabama  

SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
DESIGN: George Dorhmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan PRODUCTION: Kevin Hardman WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Brian Kubicki, Jon Jensen PHOTOS: Jake Peters 







