

Tuesday, December 7, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 62 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
O'Connor: Our Lady against abortion 

By JOSLIN WARREN 
News Writer 
The Blessed Mother Mary has foreseen a bleak future for our sinful country if abortion is allowed to continue, according to Father Edward O'Connor, University theology professor emeritus, and an expert on Our Lady and the apparitions that have been seen of her. 
O'Connor, who is heavily in­volved in the Mary movement and the pro-life movement, ex­plained that many of those who have seen visions of Mary claim that she has said that "because of the sins of the world today, especially abortion, we are threatened with such chas­tisement the world has ever known." 
"You'll lind that spiritual and social movements aren't in har­mony with one another. Some are concerned with one thing and not the other," said O'Connor. 
"The spiritual movements and social movements in the church are running on two different planes. But these two move­ments that seem so different have a lot in common." 
According to O'Connor, Mary and the fight against abortion have strong ties. 
"If we want to stop abortion it 
will not suffice to have good sci­
entific arguments about the fe­
tus and embryo. People are go­
ing to have abortions and no 
scientific argument is going to 
stop it," O'Connor stated. "You 
must touch and convert their 
hearts and make them feel for 
the baby that is invested in 
them." 
Mary is the one we can turn 
to guide this conversion. 
"She is the one that will turn 
people away from the practice of abortion." 
The pro-life and Mary move­ment must be linked together for the pro-life movement to be successful, O'Connor said. 
"Mary carried around Jesus for nine months like any moth­er. In Mary's case it was not only her first born child but it was also Jesus Christ. While she was thinking of that child it was filling her with the holy spirit. During the nine months there was a communion be­tween mother and child of which there is no parallel with an average mother." 
Mary helps mothers to be aware of the precious value they are carrying. 
"When Mary looks down on us she sees herself and Jesus. She sees all of us as members of the body of her son," O'Connor said. 
O'Connor cited the claims of visionaries in explaining Mary's strong hatred for abortion. 
One of the visionaries of 
Medjugorje, the site where six 
young people have seen visions 
of Mary every day for six years, 
stated that when she asked 
Mary about abortions, "the 
Blessed Mother said there is no 
sin which can't be forgiven, but 
for abortion you must do 
penance all your life." 
And when she asked where 
the aborted babies went after 
they were killed, Mary said that 
"the babies are with her." 
Other visionaries reported 
that Mary showed them a mul­
titude of babies that had been 
killed in one day's abortions 
and stated that many were 
meant to be saints and priests. 
According to O'Connor, Julia 
Kim, a Korean woman who was 
orphaned in the Korean War, 
converted to Catholicism and 

The Observer/ Carolyn Wilkens Father Edward O'Connor, University professor of theology emeritus, lectures yesterday on apparitions of the Blessed Virgin Mary and the debate over abortion. 
she and her husband are extremely devout. One day their statue of the Blessed Mother began to weep tears and soon those tears turned to blood. Following this event, Kim began "suffering from the pains of the unborn and the wounds of the Lord appeared on her hands and feet." 
In a recording, of a confer­ence in Pittsburgh, Kim stated that the statue cries "for the repentance of those who have been aborted." 
Task force explores networking 
By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
A task force is currently exploring the idea of allocating more computer cable fibers for networking systems similar to those now running through campus, said David Horan, Student Government Liaison to the Video/Fiber Utilization Task Force. 
STUDENT SENATE 
The task force includes rep­resentatives from the Office of University Computing, Networking Services, WNDU­TV, and DeBartolo Media Resources. 
"The task force is considering the networking needs of stu­dents which the fiber backbone may be able to meet," Horan said. 
Future options for the task force include making it possible for everyone to have a comput­er in each room or making it possible for freshman to have a computer for all four years. 
Educational broadcast media might also be an option for stu­dents for instruction in the Arts and Letters Core course and other classes where film study is required, he said. 
"The university is opposed to entertainment cable for ideo­logical reasons," he said. 
Student senators voted on student body election dates. The elections will take place Feb. 7. An information night for anyone interested in run­ning for office is scheduled for 6 p.m., Thursday, in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. 

White House defends use of U.S. plane by Aidid 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton defended on Monday the use of a U.S. jet by Mohamed Farrah Aidid, whose Somali forces were suspected in the slaying of 24 Americans. 
Clinton said Robert Oakley, his special envoy to Somalia, wanted to get Aidid to peace talks in Ethiopia last week and "had to make his decision on the spur of the moment, with­out much time to consider whether there were any other options." 
With Aidid refusing the use of a U.N. plane, Oakley felt "he had to get the peace conference going and so he thought it was the right thing to do, and I will stand behind his decision," the president said. 
Clinton spoke at a joint news conference with Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzales after a two-hour meeting. 
Gonzales interjected that the 
U.S. presence in Somalia "has its human cost but it has saved tens of thousands of lives, of innocent lives. It has saved them from a death by hunger." 
· Aidid had been the target of an intense search after the deaths of Pakistani and American peacekeepers. After the deaths of the Americans, Clinton reversed course, set a March 31 deadline for the with­drawal of Americans from Somalia and agreed to drop the manhunt. 
Asked how he would explain to the families of slain service­men why the United States was now helping Aidid, Clinton said, "I would tell them that they were over there fighting ulti­mately for a peace to take place.... That action was fun­damentally successful; they achieved their objective. They arrested a lot of people." 
He said that U.N. forces have in custody "the people who we think are the most likely to have been seriously involved in the murder of the Pakistani sol­diers and to have caused diffi­culties for the Americans." 
An independent commission is investigating who was responsible, he said. 

----------------------~~~~-~~ -~ -~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 

Can't breathe? Kiss my cigarette butt 

Recently, as I was enjoy-·-------­
ing a cigarette, a young woman, stumbling toward me while gasping for breath, pleaded, "Excuse me, I can't breathe." 
I panicked. Should I give her the Heimlich maneu­ver? Should I administer mouth to mouth? What did she have for lunch? Jason Thomas Hope it wasn't onions or Asst. Viewpoint Ediror garlic. 
Her dilated pupils beseeched me, but I was helpless: I didn't know what to do. And with what I thought was going to be her last breath before she succumbed to the reaper at my feet, she pined, "Your cigarette." 
Then the beacon of reason illuminated my heart. Ohhh! My cigarette! I understood immediately. You know, I'm a sensitive guy and all. I'd been in that situation before. 
So I tried to hand it to her, ever so kindly, offering her a hit ofT of my last smoke. My pop always told me that one must honor a person's last wishes, and I thought that certainly this one was a goner. 
But alas! My generosity was returned by nothing but chastisement. She howled in fury, rejecting the gift that I had so benevolently offered. 
"Hey, ya know, I'm sorry. I would have given you a whole one, but I'm fresh out." No response, her fiery eyes cut me like a laser through Frosty the Snowman. I was crushed. 
I just don't understand why she couldn't accept the fact that I like Winston Selects. I guess she was just totally stuck on those men­thols. 
Luckily, she survived. Actually. she must've been faking the whole thing just to meet me, because she ran away, probably overpowered with embarrassment. Too bad, I thought we had a lot in common, except of course our pre­ferred brand of cigarettes. 
After that, I was heading back into LaFortune (I would never ever smoke inside, that would be offensive!) to finish my studies when an unkind individual looked at me, frowned, squealed out a fake cough and remarked, 
"How would you like it if I threw a bucket o water on you?" 
I thought that he, referring to the incident with the young lady that had just occurred, was suggesting that I had been the one to make the move on her. But he continued, 
"Because what you do to me, by smoking in my presence, is far worse." Now, surely it was again my ineptitude in the comprehension department, but I was shocked. 
Does this person drive a car, ride the bus, fly in planes, or participate in our consumer soci­ety from which innumerable industrial pollu­tants proliferate? 
There is an enormous amount of hostility toward smokers on this campus. If you're con­cerned about your health, you're barking up the wrong tree. Call Congress. 
The amounts of pollutants emitted into the air from these other sources are far more damag­ing to one's health than my occasional cigarette. 
If a smoker is in a no-smoking section, let him know, but if not, or if he's outside, try to forgive this blatant disregard for humanity. If smokers abide the rules, it's their choice. 
I know it's bad for me, but so is alcohol. You say it stinks? That's subjective. So do certain brands of perfume. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Laura Ferguson John Bingham David Claremont Production 
Sports Lynn Bauwens Beth Regan John Rock Viewpoint Kathie Young 

Astronauts work to correct Hubble telescope's blurred vision 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
With guidance and power systems restored on the Hubble, Endeavour's spacewalking repair crew focused on fixing the telescope's bad eyesight. "We've been up to bat twice, and the crew has hit two home runs," said Joe Rothenberg, NASA's associate director of flight projects for Hubble. "The first objective has been met: We can handle on-orbit servicing and we can handle contingen­cies." On Monday, the space shuttle Endeavour and its crew of seven were in the sixth day of the 11-day flight, setting spacewalk records each time they venture out of the crew cabin. The bus-sized Hubble, 43-feet long, sits upright on a lazy-Suzan near the rear of the cargo bay. The third day of repairs, beginning late Monday, was reserved for installing a new multi-purpose camera ­actually three cameras for the detection of distant objects, and a planetary camera to make high-resolution studies of planets, galaxies and stars. Nicknamed "wilT­pic" for wide-field planetary camera, the instrument includes lenses to compensate for the flaws created by the telescope's misshapen main mirror. With it, NASA hopes to regain most the Hubble's lost promise of getting crisp images of the faintest and oldest heavenly bodies. It also will enable astronomers to track the orbits of comets around the sun and search for planets around other stars. Astronauts Story Musgrave and Jeffrey Hoffman, making their second foray into the open cargo bay, also were set to replace the Hubble's two magnetometers that measure the telescope's position by Earth's magnetic field. Neither of the existing instruments is performing at full capability. One of the unanticipated events also became the flight's most dramatic moment. A solar panel being removed for replacement in Monday's spacewalk refused to roll up for the return home. Rather than waste time with it, Mission Control told the spacewalkers to toss it overboard to join 6,700 other pieces of space flotsam. Kathryn Thornton, standing at the end of the shuttle's 50-foot robot crane, was lifted high over the cargo bay. 
White House displays, 'funky' ornaments 
WASHINGTON 
Celebrating her first Christmas at the White House, Hillary Rodham Clinton unveiled her holiday decorations Monday: a cozy display of crafts, trees and "funky and down to earth" orna­ments. Standing in the Blue Room beneath an 18 1/2-foot Fraser fir crammed with handmade dolls, balls and bulbs, Mrs. Clinton pointed to two ornaments depicting Socks, the family 
· cat, as an angel. "There's even a president with a halo," she said, laughing. "Some are quite elegant and rather magnificent. Some are funky and down to earth," the first lady said. "They run the whole gamut." Socks' image was not limited to the Christmas trees. The "House of Socks" is a traditional gingerbread house, a yard-high depiction of the White House featuring at least 20 minia­tures of the "first cat." Mrs. Clinton said her office asked 70 of the nation's top craft artists to make pieces for the White House's permanent display. The crafts -from a pine wood bowl to a clay caldron -are scattered throughout the building. Hundreds of other artists were asked to create an ornament, with angels as the general theme. Their work produced 7,500 ornaments to deco­rate the 22 Christmas trees at the White House. "In look­ing for a theme that would tie together what we cared about and the kind of fun we wanted to have at Christmas, it seemed to us that highlighting American crafts would be a way to really show what's best about America and also have a beautiful Christmas." Mrs. Clinton told reporters. Her office also unveiled the official White House Christmas card, featuring a portrait of the couple, basking in a gold light in the State Dining Room. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 7. 
FRONTS: 
..........-r ..........._ ..,...ay.. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressuf9 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Hubble's optical improvements 
The flawed mirror in Hubble delivers a blurry image to all of the craft's instruments. Endeavour astronauts are to install two devices that place corrective mirrors in the path of incoming light. These devices should cancel out most of the focusing error. and images taken by the telescope should be sharper. 
Primary mirror 
Manufacturing error is source of Hubble's poor images. The mirror was ground too flat at the edge, and it can't focus an image correctly. 

planetary Replacement instruments camera (WF/PC) To be replaced by WF/PC2 

Wide field/planetary COSTAR (Corrective camera 2 (WF/PC 2) Optics Space Telescope Axial Replacement) 
What it does:  Hubble's main camera  Device's coin-sized  
incorporates its own  mirrors will provide  
corrective mirror  corrected image to three  
other Hubble instruments  

Planned Third spacewalk Fourth spacewalk Installation: 
urce: NASA AP r1 Tate 
Cookbook celebrates holiday gift 
WASHINGTON 

It's the holiday gift people love to hate, but each December it arrives, bulky and unwelcome, at homes across the country. The writer Calvin Trillin has a theory that there's only one and that it gets passed along year after year, uneaten. Russell Baker says it's the only food durable enough to be a family heirloom. This holiday sea­son, the much-maligned fruitcake has a new champion, in the form of a celebratory cookbook. To some, the title, "Favorite Fruitcakes," might seem like an oxymoron. But author Moira Hodgson says those who hate fruitcakes just haven't experienced the real thing. "People either love fruitcakes or hate them, the latter I think because they know only the commercial variety -heavy, dried­out cakes made with supermarket candied fruits that are dyed alarming colors and often have a strange, soapy taste," she writes. "But a real fruitcake is to store-bought ones what Camembert is to artificially flavored cheese spread, or Puligny Montrachet to white wine cooler." Hodgson, who is English, says she grew up on delicious fruitcakes served at afternoon tea. Her cookbook includes many exotic varieties -including Caribbean Black Fruitcake, made with fruit soaked for up to a year in rum, and an Irish version, made with raisins soaked overnight in Guinness Stout. There are dark fruitcakes and light fruitcakes, European fruitcakes and American ones. Famous chefs, including Craig Claiborne, Jacques Pepin and Marion Cunningham, contribute their favorite recipes. There's Julia Child's Famous Sticky Fruitcake, so-called, she says, because "it started out that way dur­ing my first experiment, and the name has remained, as a family joke." And dessert expert Maida Heatter adds Panforte Cioccolato, a chocolate cake from Siena, Italy, that she claims the Crusaders carried with them on their journeys. 
Jason Thomas Graphics Chris Weirup 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi•hed Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T·stonns Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
the Associated l'rcss. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
V1a .Associated Press GraphicsN61 C1993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Columbus  42  41  New Orleans  64  39  
H  L  Dallas  t\8  42  New York  57  43  
Allanta  58  50  Denver  .;s  31  Philadelphia  61  47  
Baltimore  56  48  Los Angeles 7 4  52  San Francisco  59  45  
Boston  47  44  Miami  83  69  Seoul  39  23  
Chicago  40  33  Minneapolis  34  30  Toronto  40  34  
Charlotte  64  50  Montreal  39  33  Washington, D.C. 55  49  


Incumbent, priest claim victory 
Associated Press voters in this oil-rich central cast partial results that gave African nation of 1.1 million Bongo a vast majority in his LIBREVILLE, Gabon people. northern home province and Gabon's autocratic ruler and The government said official Abessole an overwhelming lead 
a Roman Catholic priest traded results were expected this in Libreville, the capital where accusations of fraud and claims week. a third of the estimated of victory Monday following the Pro-government Radio Unity 455,000 voters live. country's first free presidential said that President Omar Bongo Steve McDonald of the U.S. election. should win with 83 percent of African American Institute, 
International observers said the vote. But it said that fraud who was among 100 interna­Sunday's voting was marred by by his foes probably would tional observers, said voting 
I
irregularities and confusion lower that to 73 percent. was peaceful and went well in that could have promoted Radio Liberty, which backs some areas. But he said "'an I fraud. Bongo's main challenger, the obvious possibility of both fraud 
People told reporters they Rev. Paul Mba Abessole, broad-and mistake" existed. voted as many as 10 times, and 
SECURITY BRIEF
it appeared the number of votes might well exceed registered 

injury. 
7:2.4 p.m. A UniVarsity Villag$ reported receiVing harassing 
. SUN.~ DEC. 5 

11:33 a.m•.·. A. Michigan arrasted for drlying under the 
~e,ss in Sollti} (11~ ~ .......Q; ~~ 
(J) &efb,hht\ P. 
A Survev of Dati no Couoles 
Thank you to everyone who has sent back a survey. 
If you haven't sent yours back yet, there is still time to mail it in. Thank you for your help. New participants are always welcome. For information, or to sign up, 
call 631.-8791. 
(Prizes: cash prizes, dinner for 2 at Nick's Patio, General Cinema movie passes, Bonnie Doon's ice cream) 

MOVIE NIGHT 
Come see your favorite X-mas classics. 
9:00pm Rudolph 

10:00 pm A Christmas Story 
11:30 pm The Year Without a Santa Claus 
12:30 am Home Alone 2:15am Frosty 2:45am The Grinch 

December 11, 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom 
Have Fun and Get in the Holiday Spirit Absolutely FREE! 
Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS 
Scouts may exclude agnostics 
By RICHARD CARELLI were disappointed by the court ship for refusing to sign a Associated Press action. pledge in which boys promise "Encouraging a proper moral to "love God." WASHINGTON standard or proper ethical Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts 
The Boy Scouts' exclusion of standard is certainly a reason­must promise to "do my duty to youngsters who won't acknowl­able thing to do in a youth God and my country." edge a duty to God survived a organization," Welsh said. Lower courts ruled that the Supreme Court challenge "The question, however, really Boy Scouts of America, unlike Monday. is do you make a prejudiced restaurants, hotels and places 
The court, rejecting the assumption about people's of entertainment, is not a public appeal of an 11-year-old boy moral and ethical fitness on the accommodation covered by from Illinois, let stand a ruling basis of whether or not they Title II of the Civil Rights Act of that said a federal law banning believe in God." 1964. bias in public accommodations In an unusual move, the The law bars discrimination does not cover the Boy Scouts Scouts had asked the justices to based on race, color, religion or of America. review the boy's appeal. The national origin. 
The court's action, taken organization cited the huge In the appeal acted on without comment, is not a rul­costs of defending its policy Monday, lawyers for the ing on the merits of the Scouts' from similar attacks in Welshes relied heavily on a policy, and carries no direct California, Kansas, New Jersey, 1969 Supreme Court ruling that impact for other legal fights Pennsylvania and the District of said an amusement park's over it. Columbia. restrictive admission policy vio­
The organization also is Richard Walker, a Boy Scouts lated Title II. defending itself against lawsuits of America spokesman, said The appeal said the Boy challenging its policy of barring Monday that duty to God and Scouts should be treated as a homosexuals. country is an integral part of place of entertainment. 
Mark Welsh's lawsuit was the scouting. Lawyers for the Scouts said first of its kind to reach the "One of the bedrock pro­the organization's members nation's highest court, but oth­grams is to proclaim that duty have a right to include only ers likely will follow. to God because that's how those who share their values 
Mark and his father, Elliott, you're going to get the values and beliefs. 
sued the Scouts in 1990. They imbued in these kids that the In other matters Monday, the live in the Chicago suburb of parents want," he said. court said it will use a Missouri Hinsdale, and are described in Mark was seven when he case to decide whether states court papers as agnostics. applied to join a Tiger Cub may impose higher taxes on 
Welsh said he and his son Group. He was denied member-goods bought out of state. 

page 3 
The Observer/ Carolyn Wilkens 

All the Whos down in Whoville 
Lewis Hall junior Limen Chang and Pasquerilla West junior Kieu Vu peer at the Christmas tree in LaFortune. 

Relationships Research Project Department of Psychology University of Notre Dame 
page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
Governor, ex-marine crowd Virginia Senate race 
By JEAN McNAIR 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND. Va. Virginia voters don't much like their choices in next year's 
U.S. Senate race, a senator, a governor and a famous ex­Marine among them. So the candidates' list just keeps growing as other hopefuls jump into what could shape up as the country's hottest Senate race. 
Sen. Charles S. Robb, a Democrat. is seeking re-elec­tion after a first term marred by a federal grand jury investi­gation and news reports that he attended drug parties while he was governor and had an alTair with a beauty queen. 
Outgoing Gov. Douglas Wilder, Hobb's longtime neme­sis, is challenging him for the nomination. 
On the GOP side. retired Marino Lt. Col. Oliver North of Iran-Contra fame has more name recognition than two other contenders, former U.S. Attorney Jay Stephens and for­mer Reagan budget chief Jim Miller. 
But Robb, Wilder and North are all viewed unfavorably hy about half of voters, according to a September poll by The Washington Post. 
Any race involving them would be close, said Del Ali, a pollster for Mason-Dixon Political-Media Research. 
"It's going to be a question of the lesser of two evils," Ali said. "It might be the most competitive Senate race in the country next year." 
Robb, once so politically pow­erful that Republicans feared to oppose him, may face still more rivals from within his partr­Republican George Allen s landslide victory for governor over Democrat Mary Sue Terry, a Robb ally, has emboldened other Democrats to challenge the incumbent. 
The Robb-Wilder feud could also be a factor. The spat goes back to at least 1982, when as a state senator Wilder threat­ened to run as an independent against then Gov. Robb's choice for the Democratic U.S. Senate nomination. 

By MARY SANDOK 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 

A judge dismissed felony charges against Sen. Dave Durenberger on Monday, ruling that federal prosecutors improperly used congressional records to accuse him of falsify­ing expense accounts. 
U.S. District Judge Warren Urbom of Nebraska dismissed the indictment accusing the Minnesota Hepublican of billing taxpayers for stays at a con­dominium he owned. 
Prosecutors may appeal or seek another indictment, Justice Department spokesman John Russell said. 
Durenberger told a Washington news conference that he hoped the decision 
"represents the end of this unwarranted prosecution." 
"Concluding this case imme­diately would be an act of jus­tice and fairness," Durenberger said. "Although the order does not address the merits of the case, it is my hope that this development will prompt some examination by the Justice Department of the wisdom of this prosecution." 
Durenberger, 59, was first elected to the Senate in 1978. He announced this fall he would not seek re-election next year. 
He was charged with hiding his ownership in the condo­minium to collect $3,825 in reimbursement from the Senate for staying there during five months in 1987. He faced two felony charges, each carrying a 

Addicts aided by federal funds 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

More than 72,000 people col­lect an average $405 a month in federal disability payments because they are addicted to drugs or alcohol. Few get the treatment they need to kick their habit and some end up using the cash to buy more liquor or drugs. 
The number of drug addicts and alcoholics on the rolls of Supplemental Security Income has exploded in recent years. In the first nine months of 1993, nearly 19,000 people began collecting benefits. 
The federal government will spend an estimated $350 mil­lion in payments to addicts and alcoholics on SSI this fiscal year, more than six times as much as the $55 million spent in 1989. 
SSI is a welfare program, run by the Social Security Administration, that is sup­posed to help low-income elder­ly and disabled people pay for food, shelter and clothing. 
To qualify for S.SI disability benefits, a person must be unable to work because of a 
Charges against Senator dropped 
maximum five-year prison sen­tence and $250,000 fine. 
Urbom said the federal charges against Durenberger could not stand because prose­cutors wrongly exposed a grand jury to Senate records that were constitutionally pro­tected. 
"Because no one -including government counsel -knows what weight, if any, the grand jury attached to the (protected records), I cannot find that the constitutional error was harm­less," Urbom wrote. 
physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or last for at least a year. Social Security determines who is eligible for benefits. 
Some 5.8 million people receive SSI benefits, and just 
1.5 percent of them are addicts and alcoholics, said Social Security spokesman Phil Gambino. 
In exchange for their checks, drug addicts and alcoholics must agree to get abuse treat­ment, if it's available. 
The problem, say advocates and Social Security officials, is that there aren't enough treat­ment opportunities in a country with 23 million addicts, alco­holics and problem drinkers and fewer than 90,000 federal­ly funded treatment slots. 
In any given year, only about 2 million to 3 million people are actually being treated in either private or publicly funded facil­ities, according to the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors. 
As a result, some addicts may be spending their benefits on liquor or drugs. 
"Social Security, unknow­ingly, unwittingly, provides 
more money to drug dealers and bars than any other orga­nization in the whole world," said Francis J. O'Byrne, an administrative law judge in Chicago who hears appeals from people who have been denied Social Security benefits. 
"No drug addict, no alcoholic should ever have their hands on cash," O'Byrne said. "These people should be put in a hospi­tal, in detox, to make them bet­ter, not given money to buy a better class of drugs." 
O'Byrne says he asks people applying for disability benefits if they will use the money to buy alcohol. A common answer, he says, is "Well yes, but I'll steal Jess." 
AI Guida, vice president of governmen tal affairs for the National Mental Health Association, believes most SSI benefits to recipients disabled by addiction go to rent, food and day-to-day survival. 
"Let's say for a moment that we bar these payments and then shift the $300 million into direct drug treatment," he said. "What you're going to do is in­crease the number of people who are homeless." 
Love. 

Katie, Christine, Kimberly, Kelly 
,,
6 g ,,\ 
3 ON 3 

{jeakin~ a dean /ieart0 or~ ~ Advent Penance Service Fr. Tim Scully, CSC, Presiding Tuesday, December 7th, 1993 !O:OOpm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Opportunity for individu~tl confeuion following tlu servic~. Other Residence Hall Penance Services: Farley Hall Sunday Dec. 5th 6:30pm Howard Hall Wednesday Dec. 8th !0:30pm Keenan Hall Thursday Dec. 9th !O:OOpm Lewis Hall Wednesday Dec. 1st !O:OOpm Lyons Hall Wednesday Dec.. 8th !O:OOpm Pangborn Hall Monday Dec. 6th !O:OOpm Pasquerilla West Wednesday Dec. 1st 9:00pm St. Edward's Thursday Dec. 9th 9:15pm Sorin College Monday Dec. 6th 9:00pm -(Z\MPUSWalsh Hall Wednesday Dec. 1st !0:30pm MINISTRY Un1vers1t'J ol Noire Dame  

BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
, 



------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, December 7, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
French critical of farn1 subsidies Judge, kidnapper killed 
By ELIZABETH WISE 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 

The United States and European Community appeared close Monday to settling a dis­pute on farm subsidies that has been the main obstacle to con­cluding a global trade pact. But France called the progress inadequate. 
U.S. 
Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy hinted the United States and 12-nation trading bloc had settled a bitter dispute over cuts in government pay­ments to farmers. 

U.S. 
Trade Representative Mickey Kantor continued delib­erations with his EC counter­part, Sir Leon Brittan, in an effort to clinch an overall deal that would save the protracted world trade talks from collapse. 


The French, however, who have threatened to block any deal they don't like, character­ized the talks in much more critical terms, saying the agree­ment still didn't meet their con­cerns about protecting France's farmers. 
"We need more progress," French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe said as he entered EC headquarters to talk with Brittan. 
An agreement after seven years of tortuous negotiations would lower barriers to cross­border trade in areas ranging from food to financial services. Many economists call such trade liberalization critical be­cause it would open markets, create jobs and pump $200 bil­lion annually into the world economy. 
Arriving at EC headquarters, Kantor said chances were "pretty good" for an accord. 
After nearly five hours of talks, Espy emerged with EC farm chief Rene Steichen and said the two had concluded "very productive" talks on 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 

Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge of Macintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 
agriculture. 
Asked if there was an agree­ment, Espy replied, "Just look at the smiles on our faces." 
"I'm very proud of what we have done today," he «told reporters. 
In Washington, President Clinton said he was optimistic after talking to Kantor by phone and said "they're doing quite well" on the key issue of farm subsidies. 
Even so, Clinton said, "There are still some sticking points." 
Neither Espy nor Steichen gave details of their discus­sions. 
But other officials said the United States backed down and agreed to reopen an agreement reached last year to make sharp cuts in the trading bloc's subsidized farm exports. 
In return, Washington was promised increased sales for some of its agriculture products in Europe, they said. 
The farm dispute has been the main obstacle to concluding by a Dec. 15 deadline the 116­nation trade talks, sponsored by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT. 
The deadline is the last day President Clinton can notify Congress of a proposed GATT agreement under "fast-track" legislation, which bars legisla­tors from attaching amend­ments that could kill an accord. 
In the farm dispute, EC offi­cials and diplomats said the United States agreed to soften the blow of last year's Blair House accord calling for the community to pare its subsi­dized farm exports by 21 per­cent over six years. 
by gunmen in Algeria 
By RACHID KHIARI Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria 

Gunmen killed a judge 
, Monday and wounded two policemen guarding a high school for foreign students, the latest in a wave of attacks blamed on Islamic militants. 
Police also said they killed one of the ringleaders in the kidnapping of three French 
NIGER 

consular employees in October. 
AP

Rouaz Lakhdar, chief judge in took a woman hostage and shot
the western coastal city of 
and wounded one of the police­Oran, was the sixth judge killed men who tried to arrest him,since May. Three others have officials said. Police killed himbeen wounded. 
when he broke away and tried to flee.
Court officials said Lakhdar was hit by several bullets fired 
Guezmir was identified as
by three attackers near his 
one of the leaders of the Armed home in Oran. There was no 
Islamic Group, which hasimmediate claim of responsi­
bility. 
The duel outside the Ben Aknoun school in Algiers occurred shortly after new security measures went into effect there. Two armored security vehicles were stationed by the main gate, and officers with automatic rifles patrolled the neighborhood. 
Officials said the gunmen were trying to fight their way into the school, where many of the students are French. 
Police said Mohammed Guezmir, 24, one of the kidnap­pers of the French consular employees, died in a gun battle near a police station in down­town Algiers. 
Guezmir, riding on a city bus, claimed responsibility for the week-long kidnapping. 
The militant Muslim or­ganization has threatened to begin killing foreigners who stayed in Algeria after Nov. 30. It has been blamed for the killings of nine expatriates since September. 
The Armed Islamic Group is among the more violent of the organizations waging an insur­gency against the government. 
Muslim militants fighting to bring down the military-backed government have killed public officials, intellectuals and jour­nalists since cancellation of January 1992 elections that fundamentalists were expected to win. 
Looks like a Vivarin night. 
It's 10 PM. You've crammed for finals all week. Took two today. And now you've got to pack an entire semester's worth of Philosophy into one take-home exam, in one night. But how do you stay awake when you're totally wiped? Revive with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, Vivarin helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. So when you have pen in hand, but sleep on the brain, make it a Vivarin night! 
~Revive with VIVARIN;> 
. Contains caffeine equivalent to 2 cups of~ ~ 
~ ~-------~ 
-----------~--------~-~-~ -~-------------~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, December 7, 199 3 
Clinton, U.N. call Korean Arafat urges U.S. to push Israelis 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
nuclear offer inadequate 
Associated Press 

By ROBERT BURNS calls a chemical laboratory but JERUSALEM Associated Press that the IAEA says is a repro­PLO Chairman Vasser Arafat cessing plant for extracting failed Monday to get the United WASHINGTON plutonium from spent reactor Sta.tes to side with the 
President Clinton and U.N. fuel rods. Palestinians in their dispute inspectors faulted North Kyd said the IAEA would not with Israel over implementation Korea's offer to open nuclear respond officially to the North of a ground-breaking peace ac­sites to limited scrutiny Korean proposal until after the cord. Monday, declaring the offer U.S. government has made its "It's quite inadequate to make sure the position known. He said State important that Koreans were not making Department officials briefed no one try to bombs. Hans Blix, the agency's director interpose 
Clinton called top advisers to general, on details of the pro­themselves in the White House to discuss a posal over the weekend. those discus­next step and said he also "It does not respond to our sions," said·., wanted to discuss the matter position," Kyd said. He said his Secretary of · with South Korea and other comment reflected Blix's view, State Warren· allies in the area before decid­expressed numerous times Christopher ing on any action. since August, that North Korea 
after a two-Vasser Arafat Asked at a news conference must permit full and unrestrict­hour meeting with the man the about North Korea's latest ed access by inspectors to all United States not so long ago effort to defuse the situation, seven declared sites. considered a terrorist leader. Clinton said he was encouraged Blix told the 25-nation board Christopher promised only to by indications "that they of governors of the IAEA last pass on to Israeli Prime understood that we needed to Thursday that because of North Minister Yitzhak Rabin "the both start inspections and the Korea's refusal to allow unfet­concerns that chairman Arafat dialogue again between the tered inspections, his agency has." South and the North." could no longer provide "any The difficulty of Christopher's But other comments by the meaningful assurance" that mission in the Middle East was president and an official of the North Korea is adhering to its tragically highlighted when he U.N.'s International Atomic Non-Proliferation Treaty oblig­returned to Israel to learn that Energy Agency were more neg­ation not to build nuclear a Jewish father and his son ative. weapons. were shot and killed in the "Obviously we are not entire­West Bank city of Hebron, site ly satisfied with the response of In his remarks Monday, of repeated clashes during the the North Koreans" to U.S. Clinton said he was somewhat past week between Palestinians appeals for full cooperation encouraged that North Korea's and Jewish settlers. with the IAEA, Clinton said. He proposal indicated it under­Three children in the same expressed reluctance to go into stood that the United States family were wounded in the any detail before talking with was insisting that it not only attack which came from a advisers and allies about the permit full inspections but also speeding car. North Korean proposal that resume a direct dialogue with "It's a tragic incident," said was presented to U.S. officials South Korea. Christopher. "This killing 
in New York last Friday. 
At IAEA headquarters in Vienna, Austria, spokesman David Kyd said North Korea was offering to permit unre­stricted inspection of five of the seven nuclear sites at Yongbyon. 
But at the other two sites, which the IAEA and the United States consider to be the most important, the inspectors could only change batteries and film in monitoring cameras. They could not, Kyd said, check seals and monitoring sensors. 
Kyd said the IAEA does want to visit the five sites because it has not inspected them since last February but "they are not at the heart of the program." 
Those five include storage facilities, a nuclear fuel fab­rication plant and a five­megawatt Soviet-built nuclear research reactor. 
The two sites that are the IAEA's top priorities are a nuclear reactor, containing spent fuel laced with plutonium with bomb-making potential, and a facility that North Korea 
CORRECTION 
A story in last Friday's Observer incorrectly identified Melissa Whelan. Whelan is the NASCCU representative for the Board of Governance. The 
Observer regrets the error. 
~:rl~9&~4E 
NOTRE DAME 
iiiiifiiiliiiiiii 
Ment••• hy J•-1-•-$419 
Ne.rll J•_._ •-$449 
C•ncun Me..J.. •-$4~9 Drtt-• ....... fL ·-$149 
......-City ....... PL •-$129 Local Cantacts: Angle Walker @634-4659 Mike Cloonan @634-4451 Michael Roskell @634-1121 
12G N-th~ lt.• m-.., NY 1Q50 
1-800-648-4849 

SPEND THE SUMMER OF '94 IN RUSSIA 
Join Russian students at a resort hotel just outside Moscow. Study the Russian language and/or Russian literature with the latter being taught in English. The program is open to students with no prior Russian. 
The Russian students, on full scholarship with hopefully future Yeltsins and Solzhenitsyns amongst them, will be taught economics &western history. 
The mornings will be devoted to the class room courses leaving plenty of time for other planned and unplanned activities with the Russian students. 
Total cost for the 8 week course, books, room and board, bicycle rental, airfare: Only $2395 
A~ lotM' ~.-.d 8 w.-.,cc In SL P...burg .. offwed ••150 .-ch M optioNII utrliL 
For a brochure, call 1-800-PYCCKOE (792-2563) 
GRANT'S RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE 
INCORPORATED 7330 WESTMORELAND Dr., SARASOTA, FL 34243 

I I 
I
1 Topping Pizza 2 Topping Pizzas I I 
I I
$599 I 
I
s1Q99 I 
I 
Get up to 4 more pizzas for I 
I 
half the regular menu price I 
I 
absolutely must stop." accord signed by Israel and the 
Christopher and Arafat met PLO. for two hours in the U.S. Rabin has said there is noth­Embassy in Amman, Jordan, ing sacred in that deadline and and discussed the economic as suggested it could not be met. well as political problems con­Asked if he were willing to be fronting the Palestinian leader more flexible, Arafat replied, as he tries to assert PLO control "You have to ask Mr. Rabin to over Gaza and the West Bank be flexible, not me." town of Jericho. He said he had asked the 
Their meeting was a dramatic United States for help in getting sign of the startling change that Israel to meet the deadline. has taken place in the Middle In Cairo, chief Palestinian East since Christopher's last negotiator Nabil Shaath said visit in August. Less than four Israeli and PLO negotiators months ago, U.S. diplomats working out details of the with­were forbidden from having drawal will exchange drafts any official contact with the Wednesday on the overall Palestine Liberation shape of Palestinian autonomy. Organization. "Two drafts are in the mak­
Christopher had met Arafat ing, ours and theirs," Shaath only once before, in said. "They don't signal agree­Washington on Sept. 13, the ment. We're moving from item­day the Israel-PLO peace by-item negotiation into the ex­accord was signed. They plan changing of full drafts because to get together again in Tunis we are coming that close." before Christopher returns to Much of the meeting with Washington, and it is clear that Arafat, held in the ambas­Arafat has joined other Middle sador's residence over coffee, East leaders on the must-see tea and chocolate chip cookies, list when the secretary travels dealt with the progress being to the region. made by the PLO to set up a 
Arafat has insisted that an governmental structure. agreement for the start of Christopher said the United Israeli troop withdrawal from States pledged to provide non­the two areas be completed by lethal assistance to the PLO Dec. 13, the deadline set in the police force now being trained. 
A'M'ENTION ALL FEMALE ACTORS, DANCERS, SINGERS 
AUDITIONS 
for the SMC musical platj 
QUILTERS 
MONDAY, DEC. 6 
TUESDAY, DEC_ 7 
7:00 P_M. 
REGINA HALL, ROOM 16 SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Please call 284-4640for an appointment, and for further information. 
Bring song (with music for accompanist), Monologues provided. 
Rehearsals begin January 12, 1994. 
Order of

for $799 OR Breadsticks with 1 Medium Cheese Pizza a Medium/Largefor $600 
Pizza Purchase 

Any 2nd Cheese Pizza 1/2 price nor c•alld willl use of anu orller coupon 


BUSINESS 
Tuesday, December 7, 1993 page 7 
Milken rediscovers life 
By E. SCOTT RECKARD 
Associated Press 
ONTARIO, 

Michael Milken has stepped in front of the overhead projec­tor, blocking his scrawled ex­ample of a math trick, but the hall full of teachers is too polite to interrupt. 
"Oh, Michael," Ms. Spurge moans as he finally glances down, sees what's happened and falls silent. He steps aside, then tries to remedy things with a baffling double-speed rehash of his harangue. 
No one said things would go easily as the era's most famous financial felon steps into spot­light after public spotlight, say­ing he wants to open dis­cussions to correct the record about himself and the Roaring '80s. 
As Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s head of high-yield securi­ties, Milken rediscovered the power that junk bond financing could unleash for supposedly less creditworthy companies. 
That achievement, emulated by other brokerages but domi­nated by Drexel, helped fuel corporate booms and takeover frenzies, though Milken says it was just one part of his greater financial vision. 
He spent 22 months in the less heady '90s in a prison camp after pleading guilty to six felony securities fraud counts and paying a staggering $1.1 billion to put criminal and civil charges behind him. 
In the outer Los Angeles sub­
urb of Ontario to accept an 
educational commitment award 
from a state university and 
teachers' group, he portrays 
himself as having learned to 
accept if not duck the many 
punches thrown his way. He 
says he recently learned that 
teachers get tested for stress. 
Seeming far less awkward a 
week later during a guest lec­
ture to a UCLA finance class, he 
elicits repeated laughs. 
"I noticed that we have had 
scandal after scandal related to 
brokerage firms," he says with 
mock surprise at one point, 
adding later: "I collect subpoe­
nas the way other people col­
lect other things." 
Critics say that's part of a 
pattern of fact-twisting and 
subtle manipulation. "Michael 
Milken's pattern of wrongdoing 
. . . is to step just over the line 
into unlawful conduct that pre­
serves his 'deniability,"' wrote 
the federal judge who sen­
tenced him, Kimba M. Wood. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Mellon Bank, Dreyfus forlll largest fund Co. 
By ROB WELLS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Mellon Bank said today it is acquiring The Dreyfus Corp., one of the nation's best-known mutual fund companies, in a stock swap valued at $1.85 bil­lion. 
The merger is one of the biggest acquisitions ever in the world of mutual funds, which have become the most popular way for Americans to invest their money in stocks and bonds. 
"This establishes a kind of watermark for the industry," said Frank Barkocy, bank in­dustry analyst for Advest Inc., a securities brokerage firm. 
The two companies issued a joint statement saying the com­bination will create a di­versified financial services company with revenue of more than $3 billion and about $215 billion in funds under man­agement. 
The merger was a result of consumer demand to have a variety of financial services available from a single source, the companies said. 
Dreyfus shareholders will re­ceive 0.88017 shares of Mellon Bank Corp. common stock for each of the 36.6 million Dreyfus shares outstanding. Based on Mellon's closing stock price of $57.375 a share on Friday, the transaction is valued at $1.85 billion. 
In today's early trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Dreyfus was up $1.50 at $46 a share, while Mellon was off sharply, down $3.12 1/2 at $54.25 a share. 

Dreyfus, formed in 1951 and publicly owned since 1965, is the nation's sixth-largest mu­tual fund company and has of­fices in 16 major cities. Mellon, with $35 billion in assets, is a major player in the trust and investment management busi­nesses. 
One bank analyst, John Hef­fern of Alex Brown and Sons Inc. in Baltimore, said he doubted the announcement sig­naled the start of a merger frenzy involving banks and mu­tual fund companies. 
"I would be cautious in applying this to all other bank stocks," Heffern said. Because Mellon is already in the mutual fund business, "this is kind of an extraordinary transaction that few other banks are in po­sition to make.'' 
Dreyfus will remain in its New York headquarters and will operate as a free-standing organization within Mellon Bank Corp., the companies said. 
The Dreyfus management team will remain in place, and the Dreyfus name will be re­tained for the mutual funds it manages, the companies said. No layoffs are planned within the 2,000-person Dreyfus staff. 
The companies' statement was issued by Frank Cahouet, Mellon's chairman, president, and chief executive, and Howard Stein, Dreyfus' chair-
US, EC close trade deal 
By SALLY JACOBSEN 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS 
The United States and the European Community appeared close today to settling the con­tentious issue of farm subsidy cuts, which would pave the way for a world trade accord by Dec. 15. 
After nearly five hours of talks at EC headquarters, U.S. Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy said negotiations on the farm subsidy dispute had been "very productive" and were concluded. 
Asked if there was an agree­ment, Espy, who was with EC farm chief Rene Steichen, replied, "Just look at the smiles on our faces.'' 
'Tm very proud of what we have done today," he told re­porters. 
Neither he nor Steichen gave details of the discussions. Espy and U.S. Trade Repre­

sentative Mickey Kantor were holding crucial negotiations with the 12-nation trading bloc in an effort to clinch a deal on agriculture, films and other trade disputes. 
Espy's upbeat tone signaled that, after years of failure, the trading powers were close to settling the bitter dispute over cuts in the community's subsi­dies to its 9 million farmers. 
The message from the French, who oppose cutting subsidies, was mixed. 
After a Cabinet meeting this morning in Paris, Agriculture Minister Jean Puech indicated some progress was made, say­ing: "Things are becoming clearer." But Culture Minister Jacques Toubon said Washing­ton "isn't giving in on any­thing" concerning European subsidies for films . 
Solving the farm dispute could allow a major trade pact between 116 nations to con­clude by a Dec. 15 deadline. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

Corporate profiles: 
23rd largest bank holding company in the U.S., formed in 1869, with branches in Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland. Major player in investment management, including mutual fund administration. Bl Total assets at year-end 1992: $31.5 billion. 
1992 revenues $2.97 billion; profits $437 million. 
• Boosted dividend 47 percent to 56 cents per share in November, second time this year. Company cited strong earnings and excess capital due to sluggish loan growth. 
BJ Purchased Boston Co, financial services firm catering to wealthy, in May for $1.45 billion from American Express. 
Deal at a glance: 
Mellon-Dreyfus merger 
Mellon Bank Corp. will buy The Dreyfus Corp., one of the nation's best-known mutual fund companies, for $1.85 billion worth of stock. The deal illustrates the growing push by banks into new businesses to attract customers dissatisfied with low returns on traditional bank accounts. Mutual fund companies pool money from investors and put it in money markets, stocks, bonds and other investments. 

sixth-largest mutual fund company, formed in 1951. Manages or administers 125 mutual fund portfolios with more than $80 billion in assets. Pioneered money market mutual funds and tax-free municipal bonds funds. 
!I 1992 revenue: 342.45 million; profits $91.2 million. 
• Popularly known for its trademark lion featured in television commercials, which emerged from a subway station and strode down Wall Street. 
II Criticized in recent years for focusing on safe, but low-yielding money market funds and shunning higher-growth stock funds. 
II Chairman Howard Stein, 67, approaching retirement age is longtime friend of Mellon Chairman Frank Cahouet, facilitating afriendly merger. 
Biggest yet in a series of recent moves by banks into mutual funds, which are increasingly popular method for individuals to invest their money. Most other banks have set up their own mutual fund operations rather than buying others. 
• Mellon has a strong position managing and administering stock mutual funds, shoring up a weak position of Dreyfus, which has a large number of money market and fixed income funds. 
ll Dreyfus shareholders to receive .88017 share of Mellon bank stock for each share they own. 
Bl Dreyfus to retain its headquarters and separate identity. Stein and Joseph 
S. DiMartino, Dreyfus president and chief operating officer, to join the Mellon board. 
• Mellon to take $73 million charge to pay for merger expenses; expects slower earnings per share growth over next two years. 
Source: Dreyfus, Mellon, Standard & Poor's. AP/Wm. J. Castello, Steve Sakson 
Travelers take advantage of holiday airfare extension 
By DAN BLAKE 
Associated Press 
Holiday travelers got their second chance to buy dis­counted airplane tickets on Monday as airlines cut fares around Christmas and New Year's. Some of the most popu­lar travel days were excluded. 
The sale, offering discounts up to 30 percent, was the sec­ond since October for the holi­day period and signaled that some airlines still had plenty of empty seats despite earlier dis­counts. 
Passengers have until Friday to take advantage of the dis­counts that apply to trips from Dec. 13 to Jan. 5. Tickets must be bought seven days in ad­vance. Another sale, begun last week, offers discounts of up to 35 percent for trips from Jan. 6 through March 31 and gives customers until Friday to buy tickets. 
Marty Heires, an American Airlines spokesman, said its holiday bookings had been strong, but the carrier would match the sale prices to remain competitive. 
Airlines historically cut fares during winter when travel is typically slack, and sometimes hold more than one sale for the holiday period. 
The latest sale was begun by Northwest, which also initiated the holiday-travel discounting in late October. As has become an industry practice, the air­line announced the sale when other airline executive offices are closed. 

BRUSSELS CHARLESTON, WV FORT WAYNE The U. S. and the E. C. Domestic coal production Steel Dynamics, Inc. is appeared close today to set­totaled 15.1 million tons dur­expected to decide next tling the issue of farm subsidy ing the week ending Nov. 27, month where to locate its cuts, which would pave the down 22 percent from the new venture. The field has way for a world trade accord 19.5 million tons produced been narrowed to five sites in by Dec. 15. After nearly five the previous week, the U.S. northeastern Indiana and hours of talks at EC head­Department of Energy report­northwestern Ohio, close to quarters, representative Mike ed Monday. Domestic coal most of the nation's scrap 
Espy said negotiations on the production this year is 863 metal. The others are in farm subsidy dispute had million tons, about 5 percent Findlay, Ohio, Dekalb County, been "very productive" and behind last year's production Indiana, in Whitley County, 
were concluded. at this time. Indiana. 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

News Editor................ Mcrcdith McCullough Advcnising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer 1-labrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary"s College. lr docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither instilUtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the: opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Spores Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, lcners ;rnd Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm nec~ssarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available 10 all members of 1he No1rc Dame/Saint Mary"s com­munity and. to all readers. Th~ frtt expression ofvarying opinions through lcucrs is encouraged. 
EJiwr-in-Chicf Managing Ediwr/Vicwpoint Business Office Sports News/Photo 
KURT MILLS 
Do we have the right to die? 
It is not very often that a state legislature creates a law specif­ically designed to stop the ac­tions of one particular person. One would think that this per­son would have to be engaged in some extremely nefarious activity to warrant the attention of a group as busy as a bunch of legislators. 
Unfortunately, this is not the case in Michigan, where Dr. Jack Kevorkian is being hound­ed by lawmakers and the police for helping people deal with impossible situations in the manner in which they see fit. 
Dr. Kevorkian, a.k.a. "Dr. Death," has helped twenty peo­ple, who have been terminally ill and either in great pain, or else facing such a prospect, decide for themselves when to end their lives. He now faces trial for three of those in­stances. He has been vilified by the medical establishment, politicians, and other people who think it is their right to stick their noses into people's private lives, including so­called "pro-life" activists. 
Why is this? Basically, peo­ple, even with their elaborate religious codes and rituals for dealing with death, really have not dealt with the issue at all, and thus cannot understand when some people have figured out their own personal solu­tions. 
Or, perhaps, they just do not want other people dealing with the issue in ways other than what their narrow minds can conceive. The issue, of course, is whether society should be able to make decisions for peo­ple on when and how they will achieve their ultimate destiny -death. A lot of people, ap­parently, think that society, and 
DOONESBURY 
Dal-Tex: A 
lucky break­
"Duke'' is on tlleNet! Why 
not contact-:> ExitWound. 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  
631-4541  Day Ediwr/Production  
631-5313  Advenising  
631-4543  Systcms/OTS  
631-5323  Office Manager  

in some instances they in par­ticular, should have such a right. 
On what do they base this? Well, as in most cases where people have the arrogance to start poking around in other people's business -or in other people's garbage as anti-choice activists have done with Jack Kevorkian -it is hard to tell. However, there is usually some sort of religious component. Thus, anti-choicers use reli­gious arguments to justify sift­ing through Dr. Kevorkian's garbage to try and substantiate their outrageous claims that Kevorkian, rather than aiding people to end their life, is actu­ally murdering them. 
Politicians, and others, also seem to want to base their in­trusions on their religious be­liefs. 
And the medical estab­lishment? Well, the doctors cannot get beyond their narrow absolutizing Hippocratic Oath which apparently requires them to keep people alive, even if it is in a totally drugged out state to help alleviate the pain their patients are feeling. 
In the end -literally -it all comes down to what rights peo­ple have over their life. It is surprising that especially in such an individualistic society as the U.S., people would not have the right to control their lives. 
The contradictory and chaotic feelings toward government that people in the U.S. have seem to become a whole lot clearer for some people when government involvement is directed toward another per­son. Obviously, however, these people have little compassion, or else that compassion is 

Nob only is there strong
Send touser 

physical rese.m.l?Iance, ~ut
Duke: Have 

supplier of photo once vrs­
seen photo of 

ited China, 85 did you.
"Cigprebbe ·-C/·~--~<fA 
o., /:ii~::i
Hofder Man." 
Believe him 
to be you. 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 
Tuesday, December 7, 1993 

.·:R~€-12_ JHAT \-\ o\J~TOr-J ­
Wt-l-\Av £-LoCA-r£D \\\t:­
-p{.2..o B\£J'l\ .... · 

clouded, as it so often is, by de­vout -shall we say fanatic? ­religious principles. 
For, what are we talking about in the cases which Dr. Kevorkian has highlighted ex­cept instances where people are faced with either imminent or slow, debilitating, and prob­ably quite painful, death? What arrogance to say that people should have to sutTer the pain and indignity of such processes to satisfy someone else's religious views! Or, in the case of the medical estab­lishment, what little compas­sion many doctors must have to hype up their patients on mega­doses of painkillers just so they do not have to confront certain issues. 
The people that Dr. Kevorkian has courageously helped to end their lives in the manner that they see fit have not, on a whim, decided to jump off a building because their girlfriend left them or they lost their job. 
No, they have decided to take control of their lives in the only manner in which they can to spare themselves, and their family, great pain, suffering, and possibly useless expense. 
It is too bad that they had to consult with somebody they do not know very well, rather than their own physician, in order to do this. And, it is too bad that the Michigan legislature, anti­choice activists, and others are so arrogant and blinded with self-righteousness not to let people die in peace. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral candi­date in the Department of Government and International Studies. His column usually appears every other Monday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cavanaugh's conversion should not have resulted in sexism 
Dear Editor: 
In response to John Ruskusky's letter regarding the conversion of Cavanaugh Hall, I would like to say that I under­stand his feelings of bitterness and displacement at his upcom­ing "expulsion" from his dorm. 
Were the Administration to decide to turn Pasquerilla West into a men's dorm, I too would be most upset at the loss of friends, tradition and unity that I have experienced with the women of PW. I agree and sym­pathize with Ruskusky's prob­lem. 
However, I must strenuously object to the part of his letter where he refers to the women of the incoming Class of '98 as "a group of quotas." Ruskusky assumes that the first year stu­dents who will live in Cavanaugh Hall next year will be accepted solely on the basis of their gender. 
This is demeaning not only to those incoming women but also to those of us who are already students here. To assume that more women have been admit­ted to Notre Dame in the last few years because of quotas is degrading and sexist. 
Quotas have nothing to do with it; the real reason is that in recent years, as more women have applied to Notre Dame, more women have been accepted by Notre Dame. To suggest otherwise is reflective of the tacit assumption by many men on this campus that women are not as capable nor as deserving of being at Notre Dame as men are. 
Again I would like to express my sympathy with Ruskusky, not only because his home is being broken up, but because he has let his anger at the University's decision prejudice him against a group of women he has never met, based solely on their sex. 
In referring to these women not as people but as "a group of quotas," he cheapens not only them and their achievements but those of every female stu­dent at Notre Dame. 
Hopefully the "blind eyes" of these incoming women will be able to look past this blatant sexism, and consider applying here anyway. 
Perhaps by having more fe­males on this campus, our male fellow students will realize that women are not "quotas" but people who have achieved much and who deserve to at­tend Notre Dame. 
ASHLEY SHANNON 
Sophomore 
Pasquerilla West 


J Theink of a scholar is 
more sacred than the 
blood of a martyr.' 
Mohammed 

r-----------------,---~----­

Tuesday, December 7, 1993 page 9 
Autistic child makes his "Mark" 
MEDICAL MINUTE 
By ELIZABETH ClARKE tremendous difficulty communi­longings are placed on shelves Accent Writer cating and has a short attention above a location that he is span. capable of retrieving them on 
M
edical science still his own. does not know what Thus, his parents, after inten­causes autism. Each sive research and thought, de­Therefore, Mark is forced into case is individual and the caus­cided to take a behavioral ap­having to use some means of es have been linked to genetic, proach to their sons slow devel­communication and interaction metabolic and organic brain opment. They are currently fol­with others to get the particular damage. lowing techniques used at the toy that he wants to play with," 
Lovass Clinic at UCLA. This said Barbara. 
This is a condition that seems particular clinic specializes in as though it would be far the development and the Mark's attention span is mini­removed from the Notre research of autism. mal and therefore it is essential Dame/Saint Mary's community, but, in fact, it has a very special ' For the most part, gestures are Mark's link between a high spirited 
means of communication, although he does
and good natured four year old 
boy, Mark Fralish, and the vol­know a few of the more pertinent words like unteers that serve in our com­'cookie.' munity. 
Barbara Fralish Mark's mother 

Mark is an autistic child who was born with multiple birth defects. His parents began to that his playmates make eye notice a delay in his develop­The Fralish family con­contact with him to ensure that ment at age one and a half; it structed a room in their home he continues to strive for mak­was then that his autism was where they, along with Mark's ing eye contact on his own. apparent. Doctors said that therapist, and volunteers in the Mark's parents and therapist Mark suffered from a pervasive community can work with Mark are in the process of teaching development delay. on an individualized basis Mark sign language. Right now, 
Mark has developed his own 
Public education is available The simplified room as form of communication. for Mark, but his parents chose described by Mark's mother, not to take advantage of public Barbara Fralish, has no dis­He will take a person's hand education primarily because tractions and is furnished with and lead them to the record they knew that Mark would be objects fundamental to Mark to player if he wants to listen to lost in the shuffle of children ensure meaningful progress. It music, or take someone's hand who were developing at a faster contains a two way mirror on and place it on a container that rate than he was. one of the walls so the therapist he wants opened, which forces 
or his parents can observe him to have contact with other 
Secondly, a cluttered class­Mark interacting with others, people. room constantly bubbling with while not interrupting them. "For the most part, gestures activity would be very dis­are Mark's means of communi­tracting for Mark who has "All of Mark's toys and be-cation, although he does know 
li~:;,.--,;;;~;---:~:=r--T,~l;~, a few of the more pertinent
words like 'cookie'," said ~~.~~ Barbara. 
However, even a word that other children of Mark's age say with ease daily, takes a tremendous effort for Mark to clearly articulate. 
Since Mark does not attend any Nursery school program, he undergoes five to six hours of drill methods a day with his therapist and volunteers from 
"Dimensions" jazzes up Notre Dame campus 

Special to the Observer 
Some very talented stu­dent jazz musicians will be performing in the Notre Dame Jazz Bands "Dimensions in Jazz" con­cert in the Band Building on Tuesday, December 7th at 8:00 p.m. There is no admission charge for this concert. 
The program will consist of varied styles of jazz ranging across the entire spectrum of the music from current mainstream, fusion and avant garde to the New Orleans roots of jazz with nods to the Swing and Bebop eras in between ­truly all of the "Dimensions of Jazz". 
The program will be shared by the two Notre Dame Big Bands and will highlight the improvisa­tiona! talents of many of the students. 
Particularly featured will be the tenor sax solos of Jim McKiernan, the drum work of Kevin Fleming and 
the  singing  of  Matt  
Umhofer  and  Amanda  
Briggs.  

Pianists Brandon Crouch and Andy Brennan will also be featured along with gui­tarists Kevin Hoffman and Goeff Locksmith. 
Works performed will be from the compositions and arrangements of Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Stan Kenton, Bennie Moten, Kenny Dorham, Sting, Jimmy Heath, McCoy Tyner, Larry Dwyer and Billy Strayhorn. 

the ND/SMC community. 
V
olunteers like Colleen Cahill, a junior Liberal Arts Major at Notre Dame, spends an hour to an hour and a half with Mark in his specially designed room each week. Colleen says that she plays games with her new friend thus, continuing to rein­force the behavioral program that his parents have chosen for him. During this time Colleen sits on the floor so she is at-eye level and can more readily make eye contact. 
C
olleen's responsibility as a volunteer requires positive interaction with Mark, whereas his therapist is more responsible for teaching him. 
In reflection, Colleen described Mark as a "sweet, happy, and energetic boy" who keeps her active during her weekly visits, which she enjoys and finds fulfilling. 
It has been Colleen's experi­ence that autistic people reject touch. Mark, on the other hand is a very openly affectionate boy with a happy spirit and a warm soul. 
Contact with people is essen­tial to Mark's continual development. Volunteers have become essential to Barbara who has three other children to devote her attention to as well as a hectic household to run. 
The Fralish's do receive some aid from the state of Indiana's Family Support Services. However, the money is minimal therefore, they must rely on volunteers from the Logan Center and others like Colleen from the ND/SMC community. 
If you have a warm and car­ing heart and would like to devote time on a weekly basis to getting to know Mark, please contact Barbara Fralish at 233­2651. 
ACC~NT 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
Murphy leaves Cincinnati for Harvard and Ivy League 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Tim Murphy. taking a pay cut to join the Ivy League, was hired as Harvard's football coach Monday. 
Murphy coached Cincinnati the past five years and replaces Joe Restic, who retired after 23 years as coach of the Crimson. 
He signed a five-year contract with Harvard for about $75,000 a season. His base salary at Cincinnati was a reported $111,996. 
"The reason I coach is the reason most guys play in the Ivy League -for the love of the game," Murphy said at a news conference. "I just felt Harvard was a unique opportunity that wasn't going to come along again for another 20 years." 
Murphy. 37, left a Division 1­A job at Cincinnati for a Division 1-AA team in his home state. 
He had just completed an 8-3 season at Cincinnati, its best record since 1976 and first winning record since 1982. He had losing records in the previ­ous four years, winning just one game in each of his first two seasons. Murphy's overall mark with the Bearcats was 17-37-1. 
"It was awfully hard," Mur­phy said of leaving Cincinnati. "Hut in some ways, emotion­ally, I was like one of the grad­uating seniors. We'd accom­plished what exactly we were hired to do." 

Bill Cleary, Harvard athletic director, joined Murphy at the school's Dillon Field House across the river from the Cam­bridge campus. Clear said his department had to go through a learning process in hiring a new coach because of Restic's reign. 
"I hope it will be another 23 years before we have to look for a new coach," Cleary said. 
Murphy had spent two sea­sons as coach at Maine, where, at age 30, he became the youngest Division 1-AA coach in 1987. The Black Bears were 8-4 and 7-4 under Murphy and tied for the Yankee Conference title in his first season. 
He completed an outstanding career as a linebacker for Springfield College in 1977 then was offensive line coach at Brown in 1979 and 1980. Mur­phy coached the defensive line at Lafayette the next season, then was offensive line coach at Boston University from 1982 to 1984. 
He spent the next two sea­sons as offensive coordinator at Maine before taking over from Buddy Teevens as head coach. 
Under Restic, Harvard's win­ningest football coach, the Crimson were 117-97-6. But they went 3-7 this season and shared last place in the league. 
Auburn's Bowden helps brother up coaching ladder 
Associated Press 

AUBURN, Ala. 
Auburn coach Terry Bowden has promoted his older brother to offensive coordinator while at least two schools consider Tommy Bowden for head coaching vacancies. 
Terry said he hoped to keep his brother on staff "a few more years." 
"I'm trying to give him every~ thing J can give him to make sure he stays as long as he can," the head coach said. 
But both men said Tommy is being eyed for jobs at Duke and South Carolina. Tommy on Sunday told The Birmingham News he had withdrawn his name from consideration at Tennessee-Chattanooga. 
"The job I have is a good one. There is no need for me to hurry off." he said. "There are things happening, though. I'm not out there looking unless it's a good opportunity." 
Tommy, 39. worked as the wide receivers coach under his 37~year-old brother as the r1rst-year coach led Auburn to its first 11~0 season. While there was no one with the title of offensive coordinator, Terry said his brother did the work all year. 
"I wish I .could have given it to him when I first came in," Terry said. 
Bobby Johnson takes over head spot at Furman 
By PETE IACOBELLI 
Associated Press 

GREENVILLE, S.C. 
Bobby Johnson ended months of personal frustration by becoming Furman's head foot­ball coach on Monday, ac­cepting the position just three days after Jimmy Satterfield's resignation. 
Johnson, 42, spent all but two of his 17 years as an assistant coach with the Paladins. He served as Clemson's defensive coordinator this past season, but lost that position when Tommy West took over as the Tigers' head coach. 
The silver-haired Johnson said the last few months had been a personal roller coaster of emotions that may have peaked with his new position. 
"When I left here last year, I said 'I was going to make the move, now was the time to make the change,' " he said. "1 went over there (Clemson) with every intention of working out." 
Instead, Johnson was aboard for one of the most tumultuous years in Clemson history, capped by the resignation of coach Ken Hatfield and the hir­ing of his replacement, West. 
Johnson, though, said gaining a job he'd almost been groomed for makes it easier to understand the past few months. 
"When it happens like that, you look back and say things weren't quite as bad as you think they are," said Johnson, who interviewed for the Clem­son head coaching vacancy. "It helps you put things in per­spective and if you just hang in there long enough, hopefully. good things will happen to you." 
Johnson said contract details hadn't been worked out yet. 
The announcement also de­lighted Furman administrators, boosters and players who watched the Paladins go 5-5-1 this season, their first non-win­ning year since 1979. 
They had also grown accus­tomed to Furman contending for championships, both in the Southern Conference and na­tionally. The Paladins won three straight league titles and the 1988 Division I-AA national championship under Satter­field, but saw their record de­crease each of the past three seasons. 
Johnson began his coaching career in 1976 at Furman as defensive backs coach under Art Baker. now director of the Gamecock Club -South Car­olina's athletic booster organi­zation. 
After leaving for a season at Clemson in 1981, Johnson re­turned to the Paladins. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES Typing 287-4082 Professional Typing Dissertations. Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406 ILOST & FOUND I  Lost: If you were at the formal at Union Station Friday night and accidentally took my full-length navy coat. please call me. The brand name began with "Brom" (Bromex, Bromack, or something like that). Alicia x4834 247 Siegfried WANTEDI I-Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000·$4000+/mo. teaching  NEED ROOMMATE for spring '94 semester. Campus View apts. Call 273-4941. Needed: ride to O'Hare 12/18 and/or 1/9. X1305 Scot1 NEED A RIDE TO D.C. WILL HELP WITH GAS AND TOLLS. PLEASE CALL EMILY AT 634-2856 FOR RENT  FOR SALE Plane ticket: S.Bend to lslip,NY on 12/17 call x2383 TICKETS Notre Dame Bowl Tickets For Sale (317) 879·8497 Save $2001 United Air round trip So Bend • SF Originally $498 now  Hey E. Z. Remember the summer. 10. Ditching Campus -Campus View fun. 9. R. we Home? 8. Movie nightsllll 7. Neighbors!?!? 6. I.D.????·'nul said. 5. Indy concert. 4. Mayhem + Havouc =TROUBLE! 3. No BoB!!. 2. Corby's!l!lllll and the # 1 reason the summer and this semester has been fun· We are still friends. I will  ADOPTION: ND grad and wife, hap· pily married for eight years, wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm, lov­ing home with kindness and patience from a full-time mom and devoted dad. Please call Wendy and Tim at 1·800·440·8588 anytime Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on Luxury Yachts Seven day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals. $498 Each, Groups of 6. 1/800·999-SAIL (7245)  
Lost a gold and pearl pin  basic conversational English  $298 4-1156 Moe  miss you!!! II Love, Eddi.  

Between the Football Stadium and LaFortune via O'Shag and Neuwland Science. 
II found, please call631·5243. 

abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3 Korea. Many employers provide bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st. room & board + other benefits. No walk to ND. Washldryr, dishwashr. teaching background or Asian ian· 2 car garage, 600/mo + util. Show guages required. For more informa-by appt. 233·6523. 
lion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584  
Found: a Casio graphing  FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME  
calculator in the student computer  NANNY:ND/SMC grads needs stu­ 1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  
lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day  dent for 2 children,Granger  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  

Selling one way plane ticket from O'Hare to Philadelphia International, for 12/18. Call Dave at x2508. 
PERSONAL 
BEER GAMES II (the book) Julie and Tom long to adopt your GREAT GIFT order NOW receive infant into our loving New England FREE Intellectual Beer Games. home. Your child will grow up in a Offensive Jokes! Send $8 happy home near great schools, cash/check ($7+$1 S&H) parks and beaches. Call collect any· Shipped w/in 48 hrs time (508)535·3718. Easy to talk to. COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: 
PO BOX 2456 It's not Red and there's no Rocks in AMHERST, MA 01004 
November 11 . Call Jarrad x41 86  home,Tu-Thur 2:15­ it!! I!!  
$25 REWARD. Return please, 1  7pm.References.271·1645.  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS.  THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK INVITES ALL STU·  ..............................,..........  #######Clothe the naked####### If you know where I can biJy the I·  
brown envelope type glasses case,  FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  272·0615.  DENTS, GRAD STUDENTS, LAW  Don't be a Scrooge! Be sure to wish  shirt "Why do all the trees bend to  
with pocket clip. Front side has 2  find out how hundreds of students  STUDENTS TO ITS FIRST STU·  your friends a Merry Christmas with  the west?" Call Bevo at X2569  
pockets containing a matched set  are already earning FREE TRIPS  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES·  DENT/ALUMNI GET-TOGETHER  an Observer Classified! Place your  
silver in color Parker pen & pencil  and LOTS OF CASH with America's  ND/SMC EVENTS  ON TUESDAY. DECEMBER 28,  ad Dec. 7, 8, or 9 for this Friday's  
each has gold pocket clips, pencil  #1 Spnng Break company! Choose  (219) 291·7153  1993 AT 6:00PM AT REIDY'S  issue (the last one for this semes·  LOVING COUPLE HOPING TO  
has gold tip. Keepsakes. Lost in  Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  RESTAURANT 22 East 54th Street,  ter.) Stop by between Sam and  ADOPT "If you're looking for a  
vincinity Library. Basilica. Grotto. S. Dining Hall last week. Contact  Panama, Daytona or Padre I CALL NOWI TAKE A BREAK STUDENT  ROOMMATE NEEDED Spr. Sem.  New York NY. For info call Carey Lamont (212)848·7351 or Monique  3pm on the third floor of Lafortune. ......................................  home to bring your precious baby to, we've been waiting very long for  
Steve 289·5242 after 8pm, or  TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or  Trtle Crk Twnhs  Headley  a miracle like you." Childless couple  
Library lost and found.  (617)424·8222  271-1399  (914)251·8669  dream of loving your baby. Notre  
KEVIN  Dame grads, lawyer dad, future full·  
LOST:  2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES  MARCH FOR LIFE  You're on a roll and gift 3 is  time mom. cozy home where wish·  
silver and gold women's walch lost  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  NEAR ND  FRIDAY, January 21  nearby,  es come true, friendly suburb with  
somewhere between the south din·  EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE  AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR  DC TRIP  "It's not a shark's tooth," she'll say  children, relatives nearby. Medical,  
ing hall and LaFortune  WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN,  232-2595  If interested call ND Right to Life  with a sigh.  legal, counseling, court approved  
reward if found, call Beth at 2784  EUROPE. HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  631·9006  living exp. paid. Confidential. Call  
LOST AT UNION STATION  LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  FOR SALE  G'day NDA·PORT LODGERS OF  It looks like Lafortune is the next place to hit,  our attorney: (708)957·6833.  
on Friday 12/3  SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE!  SPRING '93: COTTOSLOE? NOlA- Someone you know will be where  
Large man's topcoat:  CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31  FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings,  But don't forget Dec. 10th. You  you sit.  
charcoaVblack;inside pocket reads  necklaces, and bracelets ail at high- know where, bring a present take  Selling Dec 19 ticket · Midway to  
"100% wool" or "100%  STILL LOOKING FOR MALE &  ly reasonable prices. Great  the keys-you're fine to drive.  Dallas via Tulsa -call Paul @ 1183  
wooVcashmere· and "Made in  FEMALE MODELS TO PUT ON  Christmas gilts I Call Jessica at 4­ 
England"  POSTERS & CALENDARS. FOR  2963  AUDITIONS AUDITIONS  Kristi M. Merry·XmasS  
If found please call John x2073  INFO.• PLEASE CALL 271-1371.  for SMC musical play  the Girinch  
QUILTERS  Need ride to St. Louis on Sat. 1 8  
Gold earring found in front of NDH  BEACH Sprlngbreak Promoter.  Fly round trip from  Will help with gas and driving.  
on Wed. 12/1. Call Matt at x1430  Small or large groups. FREE trips  Midway to Los Angeles  Ail female actors, dancers, singers  Call Mary Kay x-4594  
w/ description.  and CASH. Call CMI1·800-423­ during Christmas Break  Mon.. Dec. 6  Adoption: the placement of your  
5264.  for 2. Cail259·1086  Tues. Dec. 7  child may be the most precious gilt  
7p.m.  you could make. ND alum wants to  WINDY CITY SHUTTLE  
FOUND: MEN'S DIVERS WATCH  Need rides to MINNEAPOLIS after  BIKE. U-lock, clip-on lamp $20.  Regina Room 16, SMC  be mom through your gift.  
WITH LEATHER BAND OUTSIDE  4:00 Sat. 18. Please call3486  Gabor 233·87 45  Professional couple, country home.  LAST CHANCE TO SHOP IN  
O'SHAG WED BEFORE THANKS· GIVING BREAK CLAIRE 273-0926  NEED A RIDE TO LONG ISLAND FOR XMAS BREAK CALL SEAN AT 299·1307  LADIES ND MINI RING SAPPHIRE 10K $250 273·2725  FOR APPT. CALL 284-4640 Please bring song (with music) Monologues provided.  with lots of love and faith. Strictly legal. Call Tricia and Jim 1·800·820·1139.  CHICAGO BEFORE CHRISTMAS TICKETS $10 ·LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK CALL 631­8128  I  

Tuesday, December 7, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Miami's Highsmith admits to violating NCAA rules 
Associared Press supposed to eat and go to the your body and risking your life, to Miami athletic director Paul movies on that?" and you help bring in millions Dee, who was the school's legal MIAMI Levine offered Highsmith of dollars. Everybody says, counsel at the time, and to Alonzo Highsmith admits vio­money in February 1986 in 'Well, you are getting a college other Miami and NCAA officials lating NCAA rules by taking return for a chance to repre­degree.' Yeah, that's great, but about his relationship with money from an agent in 1986 sent the star fullback. who was I could have gone to Dade­Levine. He said he believed he while still playing for the Miami then a junior. Highsmith took South to get a college degree." had no choice. If he told the Hurricanes. the money knowing he was vio­Highsmith, a fullback who truth, his playing career would 
In an interview with the Sun­lating NCAA rules. went on to play for the Houston have been over. Sentinel of Fort Lauderdale "By my junior year, I'm saying Oilers, Tampa Bay Buccaneers published Monday, Highsmith to myself that we play on and Dallas Cowboys, lives in "I don't think they should be said he felt he deserved the national TV, we do this and we Houston and is out of football hurt," Highsmith said. "This money from agent Mel Levine. do that, and all I get out of the now. He declined to say how isn't about a problem at Miami. 
"You tell me a kid is supposed deal is just a chance to play for much money he took from I'm speaking up to talk about to survive on $20 a week?" the national title and college Levine. the whole college football sys­Highsmith said. "That's what education? I'm appreciative of The agent has written a book tem. Everybody uses everybody. the NCAA allowed us to have the fact that I got to go to col­that says he signed Highsmith There's hypocrisy. and it's all when I was a freshman. We lege and get a degree. But what and two other Miami players to dumped down onto the player." would get our checks on Friday. you leave on the field is worth contracts in violation of NCAA Dee was out of his office Mon­pile in cars and race to the five times more than a degree. rules before the 1986 season. day and unavailable for com­bank and cash them. We were "You are giving this school Highsmith acknowledged lying ment. 
Court injunction 
Arena football's Coleman replaces 
blocks Oilers from leaving Edmonton 
Emmitt Smith for Johnson, Cowboys 
Associated Press 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN "It beats the loading docks at watching an Arena League 
Associated Press Marshall Field's department game on television just down EDMONTON, Alberta 
store," said Coleman, who the street," O'Neill said. "The Peter Pocklington's legal team 
IRVING, Texas earned $7 an hour there earlier announcers were talking about began its attack Monday on a 
The Dallas Cowboys have this year. ''I've been on a whirl­how fast the guy was for a big court injunction preventing the 
found the perfect changeup to wind tour in life. I went from man." 
Edmonton Oilers' owner from 
elusive Emmitt Smith. Meet playing for Notre Dame and Coach Jimmy Johnson and moving the NHL franchise. 
their pulverizing running back, Baylor to playing indoors in a Brodsky got the tapes and were Pocklington and Edmonton 
Lincoln Coleman. league where it's legal to pleasantly surpmrised. Northlands -which runs the 
Coleman, a refugee from the bounce off walls." "It's about as unique a way to Coliseum where the Oilers play 
Arena Football League, rolled Coleman, who joined the find a player as I can remem­-have been in a dispute for 
through the Miami Dolphins on Cowboys practice squad in Au­ber," Johnson said. "Trainers nearly a year over the lease 
Thanksgiving Day in a good gust and was activated three don't find too many players.deal the NHL team has for the 
imitation of an out-of-control weeks ago, is getting $100,000 They are too busy fixing them facility. 
18-wheeler on the ice-en­this season. up. It's a strange way to get a Lawyer Cliff O'Brien said the 
crusted Texas Stadium turf. He was discovered by trainer player." injuction, granted Nov. 8, 
"My man, Lincoln, hurts peo­Kevin O'Neill when he was with Coleman didn't report to should be overturned because 
ple when they hit him," of­the Dallas Texans of the Arena training camp in July because Northlands failed to inform the 
fensive guard Nate Newton League. he was bothered by an Achilles court of a standstill agreement. 
said. "I like blocking for some­O'Neill heard running back tendon injury. "If your lordship had been 
body like that." coach Joe Brodsky saying how informed and knew about the 
Coleman gained 57 yards on nice it would be to have a big Coleman, who played highstandstill agreement, it's in­
10 carries, throwing all of his running back as a changeup for school football at Dallas Bryan conceivable the order would 
6-foot-2, 255-pound body into Smith, the NFL's leading rusher Adams, went to Notre Dame the past two years. where he was turned into a "I told Joe I saw a big back cornerback. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough by 5p.m., Thursday, December 9. Contact Meredith at 631-7471 for more information. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


Addam's Family Values (PG13) 12:30, 2:15, 2:45. 4:30, 5:00. 7:00, 7:30, 9:15, 10:00 A Perfect World (PG13) 1:15. 4:15. 7:15, 10:15 The Beverly Hillbillies (PG) 2:00. 4:45, 7:30, 9:45 The Nightmare Before Chrlatmaa (PG) 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00. 9:00 The Three Musketeers (PG) 2:00. 4:30,7:15,9:45 
Josh & S.A.M. (PG13) 2:45. 5:00 Malice (R) 7:15. 9:30 Rudy (PG) 2:00. 4:45, 7:30. 10:00 Mrs. Doubtflre (PG13) 1:30.4:15. 7:00.9:45 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
Colts prove they can compete with any team in the league 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Ted Marchibroda can't ex­plain the Indianapolis Colts' mastery of the New York Jets in Giants Stadium. 
All he knows is Sunday's 9-6 victory was one his struggling team desperately needed. 
"It did pump the team up. If you saw the locker room im­mediately after the ball game, the guys were extremely happy," Marchibroda said Monday at his weekly news conference. 
"We realized also, maybe, that regardless of how this sea­son is, if you focus all your at­tention on winning a particular ball game and we play the foot­ball we're capable of. we can probably stand up and be com­petitive with any team in the league. I think to a certain ex­tent that's what yesterday proved." 
The Colts (4-8} came in with a four-game losing streak and losses in seven of their previous eight games. They extended a streak to 13 quarters without a touchdown but won on three field goals by Dean Biasucci, the fifth time this season he has accounted for the Colts' only points in a game. 
"It was a very big win for us, no question about that. It was a needed win," Marchibroda said. "It was a tribute to our football team that they were ready to play with the loss that they suffered earlier (31-0 to San Diego last Monday night). They played an excellent game against the Jets." 

It was the Colts' fifth straight victory in Giants Stadium. 
"I really can't give an expla­nation for it. I really can't. I just hope it continues," Marchi­broda said. 
One reason both teams strug­gled on offense was the weath­er. 
"We had to play close to the vest because of the conditions, because of the swirling wind and because the field was so wet and guys were slipping," Marchibroda said. "That's the kind of game you have to play in those kind of conditions." 
The Colts' defense came up with the big plays, including a touchdown-saving tackle by rookie Ray Buchanan and pass interceptions by Buchanan and Eugene Daniel that set up two of Biasucci's field goals. 
"The defense played ex­tremely well. It was different guys at different times when we needed big plays on defense," said Marchibroda. 
He said the status of offensive tackle Will Wolford probably won't be known until later in the week. Wolford, who un­derwent surgery in the offsea­son on a torn left rotator cuff, played the first three series before leaving the game Sun­day. 
"They're calling it a sprained shoulder, and we'll have to wait for the doctors to evaluate it further," Marchibroda said. 
Bengals miss opportunities against San Francisco 49ers 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI 
The Cincinnati Bengals (1-11) should learn lessons from their valiant effort in defeat Sunday at San Francisco, Bengals coach Dave Shula said. 
"We played one of the hottest teams in football right now and, when you look at the ballgame, it comes down to us having a lot of opportunities on both sides of the ball to make plays and make catches ... and we didn't get it done," Shula said. "What I want the team to take from this experience is the fact that they can play with any­body." 
The 49ers were 24-point fa­vorites. coming into the nation­ally televised game. But they stumbled through an unin­spired effort on the way to a 21-8 victory, boosting their record to 9-3 in the competition with the New York Giants to try and win NFC home-field advan­tage for the playoffs. 
The Bengals (1-11), who only the week before had beaten the 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

NO Rowing Team formal on Dec. 10. Anyone interested in going .novice or varsity, bring $12 to Rm 235 Lyons by Friday. Call Mary at 4294 with questions. 
Women's Lacrosse will not meet on Tuesday. 
Los Angeles Raiders to finally win their first game, now must prepare for Sunday's game at New England. 
The Bengals hurt themselves by botching a fake punt early in the third quarter when they led, 8-7. Bengals punter Lee Johnson failed to recognize that the fake had been called off and had his pass knocked down. The 49ers took posses­sion and took the lead for good seven plays later. 
"Same old story, week in and week out. We make crucial mistakes," Bengals cornerback Mike Brim said. "You don't point the finger at anybody. But the fake punt hurt us a little bit. You can't make mistakes against championship teams. 
"The other thing is, you cer­tainly can't win football games if you don't score points." 
Cotton Bowl tickets to be on sale this week 
S ecial to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Ticket Office announced that Cotton Bowl tickets will be available for student purchase on a first come, first serve basis from 9 am to 5 pm at Gate 10 of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center between Wednesday and Friday, Dec. 8-10. 
Students will be allowed only one ticket, though they may purchase up to four with four student I.D. cards. Married students will need a marriage certificate to purchase a ticket for their spouse, and only cash or checks made payable to the university will be accepted. 
Please don't drink and drive. 


---~-----------­
Tuesday, December 7, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Buffalo-Dallas not only dream game 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
Don't groan yet about a Buffalo-Dallas rematch in the Super Bowl. 
There's a possibility we could see a lot better -like Joe Mon­tana and Steve Young bringing last year's Battle of the Bay Area right into your living room. 
That became an even more distinct possibility after Sun­day's games. 
Assuming that Montana stays healthy, Kansas City (9-3) has as good a chance as any AFC team of making it to Atlanta. The Chiefs are tied with Miami for the home-field edge in the playoffs and the 49ers are tied with the Giants for home field in the NFC. 
The 49ers are a decent bet to finish 13-3, the Giants aren't, and that will do it. Remember, though, the 49ers lost the last two NFC title games they played at Candlestick. 
The Chiefs probably have a slightly better chance than the Dolphins to get home field with 
Houston also in the picture. But regardless, you have to root for Chiefs-Niners. 
No matter what diplomatic things they say, Montana and Young dislike each other in­tensely -Steve Bono's locker was between them in the locker room and he was the middle man when they had to commu­nicate. Young is candid enough to light a fire and Montana has enough competitveness to answer back. 
Just think about the motiva­tion each would have to prove he was the one who deserved to stay in San Francisco. And just think of poor Eddie DeBartolo, who sheds crocodile tears for Joe, but at last glance still owned the 49ers, whose quar­terback is Young. 
Another Super possibility is New York Giants vs. Denver. John Elway has already said nasty things about Dan Reeves and Reeves has countered. Imagine a week of getting El­way and some of the other Broncos who've spoken out ­Dennis Smith and Karl Meck­lenburg come to mind -to match words with Reeves and the guys at Denver East (Mark Jackson, Michael Brooks, David Treadwell, Mike Horan and Brad Daluiso.) 

Besides, it gives Elway an­other crack at Phil Simms and Simms another crack at the Super Bowl. 
There's more drearrr match ups: 
-Giants vs. Buffalo. Reeves is 0-3 in Super Bowls, Marv Levy is 0-3. Oh, and Scott Norwood is othewise employed. 
-Dallas vs. Houston. Texas would go bonkers, but there's more to this matchup than that. This would bring Buddy Ryan back to the national spotlight and Buddy and Jimmy Johnson do a great job of pretending they dislike each other. 
-Chicago vs. Houston. See Ryan, above. Much more fun if Mike Ditka were still coaching the Bears. 
-Giants vs. Miami. Bryan Cox doesn't like Giants fans and Bills fans. He can't play Buffalo in the Super Bowl, so he settles for the Giants. 
..

Patriots lose season's seventh straight close game to Steelers 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

The New England Patriots lat­est close loss in a season of in­credibly close ones is measured in inches and interceptions. 
Did Sam Gash reach the ball into the end zone before his knee went down on the next to last play? Did the ball reach the goal line on Drew Bledsoe's sneak on the final play? 
And did Bledsoe, the rifle­armed rookie taken with the first draft pick, really throw five interceptions in the second half? · 
The Patriots didn't like any of the answers they got Sunday. They lost their seventh straight game, 17-14 to the Pittsburgh Steelers. The total margin in the last six games is 20 points. They are 1-11. 
Armed with neither a micro­scope nor instant replay, the officials decided that Gash, who started at the 9-yard line, and Bledsoe, who was at the 9-inch line, fell short. 

CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
STUDENT ACCOMMODATION AND CARE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES. WE TAKE·SECURITY AND SAFETY SERIOUSLY. 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff Call Dorene NOW 
272--1441 
Patriots coach Bill Parcells declined comment Monday on whether the team's tape, taken from a different angle than television pictures, showed Bledsoe had stretched his 6­foot-5 frame far enough on fourth down. 
"There's no use talking about it, really," Parcells said. "It doesn't make any difference what I saw. (The officials) made their call and that's it." 
Bledsoe saw only the TV shot. He wasn't sure what that showed. He really didn't care. 
"My way of thinking about it is I should have been in," he said. "Two inches away, I should have been able to get there before the linebacker (Levon Kirkland) could get there.... I expected myself to get a little better push and get over the top quicker." 
The previous play showed the good and bad Bledsoe. On third-and-goal from the 9, he completed a crucial pass over the middle to Gash. But it was slightly off-target, forcing Gash to turn to make the catch. He was hit before he could regain his stride. 
"I fell over (the goal line) with the ball," Gash said. "I think everything happened simulta­neously. They could have called it a touchdown. They could have not called it a touchdown. They just decided not to call it a touchdown." 
Parcells said the ball didn't 
cross the goal line before Gash 
went down. He's not sure, 
though, that Gash shouldn't 
have had a first down. Again, a 
referee's decision to spot the 
ball a few inches in one direc­
tion rather than the other was 
critical. 
A 6-yard run for a first down 
by Leonard Russell had put the 
ball very close to the 10-yard 
line. Parcells thought it was 
outside the 10, since officials 
were still holding the flags on 
the first-down chain upright. 
They normally are placed on 
the ground when a team has a 
first-and-goal. 
But after a 1-yard run by Rus-­
sell, the flags were laid down, 
indicating a second-and-goal 
with no chance for a first down. 
"Those are the things that 
drive you crazy as a coach, 
when a situation is different 
than what you thought it was," 
Parcells said. "But what will I 
do about it today? You can only 
react to the situation at the 
time. You haven't got time to 
stop the game and argue with 
the officials." 
None of the measurements 
would have mattered if Bledsoe 
hadn't been so sloppy. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
Wisconsin to 28.1% shooting from the field, and held a 50­36 edge on the boards. Offen­sively, Notre Dame made 7-10 three point attempts and aver­aged 49.1% from the field. Morgan hit for three three­pointers while Leary added two. 
Morgan currently leads the team in scoring with a 14.3 points a game, but six players are averaging over eight points a game. Through their first four games of the season, Bowen leads the team in rebounding with 11.3 a game. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
Barkley talks about life after basketball 
Cappelletti, Schembechler inducted into Hall of Fame
By BILL BARNARD 
Associa1ed Press 
NEW YORK 
Charles Barkley can switch back and forth from man to child, from serious to playful, as quickly and efficiently as anyone. 
One moment, he's muscling inside to score against a help­less opponent, then a split sec­ond later he's winking, pointing and smiling at a fan in the first row who was razzing him. 
Later, he's concentrating hard on the basket for a couple of free throws -he hates missing them -then after a timeout, he's jiving with The Chicken, wrestling with a giant plastic Godzilla and sharing a joke with an opposing coach. 
In the locker room, before or after a game, Barkley is no dif­ferent. 
One moment, he's talking 
about the problems of the world, giving real answers to serious questions. Then, when a reporter asks him if the pain in his back is really bad enough to make him retire after this season, he replies, "It hurts as much as your face hurts you." 
Not the kind of answer you'd expect from someone whose ambition -after helping the Phoenix Suns win the NBA championship this season -is to be the governor of Alabama someday. 
"If you're going to screw up, it might as well be in a big of­fice," Barkley said. "But this isn't something I just came up with. I've thought of politics for a long time." 

Barkley certainly doesn't measure up to the kind of politician Alabama is used to, but it would be a mistake to guess what kind of a governor he would be. 
"I don't label myself liberal or conservative," he said. "Every subject has to be evaluated dif­ferently. I've taken my opinions from a lot of people. I've learned from Rush Limbaugh and I've learned from Jesse Jackson." 
Barkley isn't rushing into poli­tics, however, just as he's not rushing into retirement. But he appears to be determined on both counts. 
"After I retire from basket­ball, I'd just relax a few years," he said. "Politics is still a few years down the road." 
Barkley calls his back prob­lems his No. 1 reason for saying he's virtually certain to retire after this season, championship or no championship. 
"It bothers me more when I'm not playing than when I'm play-
YELLOW CAB HOLID~Y SPECIAL 
Group Rates From Notre Dame 
to O'Hare and Midway Group to Four $1 00 Available 24 Hours 
Phone# 233~9333 
Will Pick Up at Dorm 
BuyaMacintoshnowandyoucan 
organize your time, strai ten outyour
finances orgo comple iyballistic. 


ing," he said. "It hurts when I sit down for a long time and at halftime." 
Some of his teammates and coach Paul Westphal aren't convinced the retirement deci­sion is etched in stone. 
"I'd like to have everyone on the team have a bad back like Charles," Westphal said after a 34-point, 16-rebound perfor­mance on Friday at New Jer­sey. "I wish we had some surgery to make some other players have a back like his." 
But there are other reasons that make Barkley say he's ready to get out. 
"Athletes in the spotlight hear so much negativism," he said. ''I'm tired of playing eight months a year. It's tough being in the spotlight every day. Of course, I'll still be famous, but I'll just have some peace and quiet." 
Doesn't he like this verbal jostling with the media? 
"Not really, but if I don't talk to the press, I'm a jerk, so I talk," he said. 
Barkley says it's unlikely he'll change his mind about retiring. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Heisman Trophy winner John Cappelletti, former Michigan coach Bo Schembechler and 11 others will be inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame on Tuesday. 
Cappelletti won the Heisman in 1973 after leading Penn State to an undefeated season. He rushed for 1,522 yards and set school records for most carries and 100-yard rushing games in a season. 
Schembecbler won 234 games during a 27-year coach­ing career at Miami of Ohio and Michigan, where he won 13 Big Ten titles. Only six other Division 1-A coaches have won more games. 
Also being inducted into the Hall of Fame are former play­ers Dick Anderson of Colorado; Bob Brown of Nebraska; Steve DeLong of Tennessee; Buddy Dial of Rice; Harry Gilmer of Alabama; Pat Harder of Wis­consin; Dick Modzelewski of Maryland; Alan Page of Notre Dame; J.D. Roberts of Okla­homa; and Lynn Swann of Southern Cal. 
Bobby Dodd will enter the Hall as a coach, joining Amos Alonzo Stagg as the only men to be inducted as a player and coach. Dodd compiled a 165­64-8 record at Georgia Tech from 1945-1966, including eight straight bowl victories from 1947-56. His teams won 31 consecutive games from 1951-53. 
The Hall of Fame is spon­sored by the National Football Foundation. 

(/.duenl !7-Jenance c5eruice 
Juesday, 7Jecember 7 a! 10p.m. in I.he 23asi/)ca. Y?eu. Jimol.hy dcuffy, G c5. G presides 
(/.duenl !7-Jenance c5eruice 
. 


Appk PowerBook 1458 4/80. 14" Display, Apple Kl!)board 11 and mouse. 
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize select Macintosh" or PowerBook'computer, you'll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy software programs. Its all included in one low price. And the software an Apple" computer? It does more. It costs less. Its that simple. ,_ package alone has acombined SRP value of $596~ It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 
-® 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
©1993 Apple GimlfJII/et: /IIC. All riJihls resm·ed Apple. the Apple foRo. .llacinlush a111l PowerRook are rr!fiLIIim!dlrademarks ofApple Gliiii{Juler. Inc. A{JfJ/eGIJ is a trad<•mark ufA{ljlle (,{1mpule~ Inc. "Based on the combmeti Su!'.iiesletl Retail Prices (SliP) ofthe fmx/uc£1 in The Campus Suftuoare Set for Mllcinlosh liS of!klober 1. /993. 

Tuesday, December 7, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1-\.E SAl\) 1-\.t. WII.N.\ED \0 R'ENl SDI'o\E\\.1\NG LON;;, RIG\, Al'tll T\.\0\JG\-\I·I'RO\/O'(\\-.\.G FOR t>. C4t>.N.GE., f>..l\1\) \.1E Wf>,.N'\ED A CLo\\-1 B\1'-t\:>\N<; S) 1-\.\S B<XlK CC/JlD 'B~ CII.R~IED t>..RoJNI> AI'ID R~REP--\) L(>..n:.R. 
I 


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
ACROSS 22 Sam and Miltie, 45 No. 1 on the in Toledo Mohs' scale 
1"--Werea 
23 Decision for 47 Trig. function Rich Man" Bowe 48 Snicker follower 4 Government 25 "Gorillas in the 50 Scarcitysupporter: -," 1988film 52 Inseparable

Comb. form 28 Misbehave 
friends of legend a Brow beads 59 Silly31 Debt13 Subjects for 60 Most soporific certificates?

Matisse and &1 Naysayerslngres 33 Foil's cousin &2 A Saarinen 14 Grist for the 35 Portage burden &3 Sale condition 
operagoer 37Twinswho 64 Lamb and 15 Mascara sailed on the mutton
holders Argo 
&5 Bat or dong1& Aircraft-engine 40" ... an 
starter 

intakes azure-lidded && He hit 511 home
-":Keats

18 Lendl and runs Boesky 41 Change the 19 Twins suckled 
decor DOWN

by a she-wolf 42 River at 21 Dickens's 1 Personal: 
Chartres 

hateful clerk 43 Forest trembler Comb. form 2 Rural abodes 3 Offspring 

The Observer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Raker of a kind 5 Classic cars 6 Strumento at La 
Classifieds, every day.
Scala 20 This makes 3& Company V.I.P. 53 One of two of 7 Cousin of 'taint Pedro's day 38 Candor Henry's six wives a Hot, dusty wind 54-Hari
23 Short spasms 39Tadpolefrom N. Africa 
24 Eucalyptus-leaf 44 Teachers' org. 55 Eins, zwei,­
901d­DINING HALL 
eater 4& Webber musical 56 Target of an X
(superstition) 

2& Boom 49 Over rating 10 Kingdom E of 27 Principle 51 Chinese unit of 57-were (so to 
Babylonia 

currency speak)
29 Least fortunate 11 Japanese 

52 Rad. x2 58 42d and Wall 
aborigine 30 Decants 12 Soviet news 32 Gets the lead agency out 

Get answers to any three clues 13 Scull 340ld Norse 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
17 Skelton's poetry 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
Kadiddlehopper collection 

SENIORS 
THE ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB WI BE OPEN THIS WEEK FOR: 
~tNa~ 
9:00-1 1:00 WEDNESDAY 


BILL WATIERSON 









Tuesday, December 7, 1993 

Irish face Knight, Hoosiers tonight 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Let's do a little math. 

Notre Dame beat Valparaiso by 21 points, Valparaiso beat Butler by 17 and Butler beat Indiana by four. 
That makes Notre Dame a 42-point favorite heading into tonight's game against the 15th-ranked Hoosiers at As­sembly Hall. 
The Irish offense has sput­tered early this season, so fig­ure Notre Dame 51, Indiana 9. 
If only it was that easy for the 2-1 Irish. 
Indiana (1-1) is coming off a 96-84 thrashing of then-No. 1 Kentucky Saturday in Indi­anapolis. 
"If we do what Coach (Bobby Knight) says we'll win a lot of games," Hoosiers' guard Da­mon Bailey said after the win over the Wildcats. "If we play like we did against Butler, we'll lose to Notre Dame, too." 
Bailey is Indiana's key to suc­cess this season. He averages 26 points, seven assists and 6.5 rebounds per game. 
"Everything good that hap­pens to I.U. comes through Damon Bailey's hands," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "Ev­ery game it becomes clearer why Bobby Knight was inter­ested in him so long ago." 
Bailey attracted national at­tention when he was in eighth grade when Knight watched him play a game and said he was better than any guard In­
The Observerff.J. Harris 
Sophomore Ryan Hoover will take his 12.3 points per ga'llle average diana had playing for them at 
into tonight's battle with Indiana at Assembly Hall. 

Irish sweep Brown Power Bar Invitational 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball defeated both Wis­consin and Brown this weekend to capture the Brown Power Bar Invitational title and run their season record to 4-0. 
Senior Kara Leary was se­lected MVP of the tournament while freshman Beth Morgan was also named to the all-tour­nament team. 
In the championship game, Notre Dame defeated Brown, 58-54. Leary led the Irish with 10 points, while senior Tootie Jones added 9 points. Junior Letita Bowen led the team in rebounding with 13 boards. 
With the game tied at 13, Brown started a run and held on to the lead for the remain­der of the half. Brown then went on a six-point run with under two minutes left in the half to increase their lead to 10 points, their largest lead of the game. Senior Sherri Orlosky came back to hit a jumper and two free throws to pull the Irish within six before the end of the half. 
Notre Dame overcame the halftime deficit of 32-26 and cut the lead to one on a Bowen score with 14:20 left in the game. The Irish finally took the lead for good at 4 7-46 with at 

' 


the 6:33 mark on a lay-up by sophomore Carey Poor. 
Notre Dame held off Brown throughout the game's final minutes to capture the title. With 32 seconds left in the game, the Irish clinged to a two-point lead at 56-54. A steal and basket by Jones pushed the lead to four. 
"Carey Poor and Tootie Jones came through for us down the stretch," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Carey gave us the lead and Tootie made two or three big plays, with a key steal to ice the win." 
Although the Irish won the tournament, the team wasn't completely satisfied with their performance, as they commited 33 turnovers in the champi­onship game. 
"We're a good team but we didn't play up to our capabili­ties, even though we came away with the win. We can't do that against bigger and better teams," said Jones. 
Brown's Michelle Pagliaro (11 points) and Kathy Hill (12 points) were also named to the all-tournament team. 
On Saturday, the Irish crushed Wisconsin, 77-55, on route to the final game against Brown. 
Morgan led all scorers with 23 points and nine rebounds for the Irish. Leary added 14 
Coaching Turnovers Harvard and Furman fill their head coaching posi­tions. 
see page 10 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Freshman Beth Morgan drives the lane earlier this season. 
points, and freshman Jeannine Augustin turned an 11-point performance. 
Wisconsin took a 3-0 lead at the start of the game, but Leary hit a three-pointer for the Irish and Notre Dame never looked back. The Irish held a 39-25 first half advantage and contin­ued to dominate throughout the second half. Morgan finished the half with 19 points. 
The Notre Dame defense held see HOOPS/ page 13 
Inside SPORTS Hall of Fame 

Former Michigan coach Bo Schembechler and twelve others to be inducted today. 
see page 14 the time. 
That group included Indiana's all-time leading scor­er Steve Alford. 
"I don't mean he's potentially better," Knight said then, prob­ably more as a motivational factor for his players than a genuine compliment to Bailey. "I mean he's better now." 
From that moment, Bailey was destined for Indiana. 
It also made him one of the Hoosiers' most popular players ever and he has been steady and at times spectacular during his career. 
This season he will have to be spectacular if the Hoosiers hope to be successful, but he does have plenty of support. 
Sophomore swingman Brian Evans is scoring 19 points per game and grabbing 7.5 re­bounds. 
Junior center Alan Henderson is Indiana's main presence in the middle, pulling down 12.5 rebounds to go along with 15 points per game. 
"We will have a lot of matchup problems," MacLeod said. "They have great size at every position and great depth." 
Seniors Pat Graham and Todd Leary round out the Hoosiers' starting lineup, with freshmen Sherron Wilkerson and Steve Hart also seeing considerable time. 
It's not as talented a team as Indiana fans are accustomed to, but Knight has a way of getting his players to exceed their ca­pabilities. 
"You have to beat them, they're not going to beat them­selves," MacLeod said. "That's a direct tribute to what they're being taught." 
Notre Dame has revealed just one weapon this season-Monty Williams. lie averages 33 points per game and that may not be enough tonight. 
Sophomore Ryan Hoover 
(12.3) is the only other Irish player in double ligures, and he has been virtually invisible since a season-opening 26 point performance against Val­paraiso. 
uwe need to have better bal­ance," MacLeod said. "If you rely heavily on one man and he gets shut down, the other peo­ple have to be confident that they can step up." 
One player who will have to step up for the Irish tonight is freshman point guard Admore White. 
Indiana's pressure defense will try to fluster the rookie who has had some ups and downs already this season. 
After a promising 1 0 point, 11 assist performance against Val­paraiso, White has had difficul­ty running the Irish offense. In the last two games, he has had 13 turnovers and only seven assists. 
The most difficult task of his young career awaits tonight. 
"It will be an educational ex­perience for Admore," MacLeod said. "lie's never played in a place like Assembly Hall and hopefully he'll respond the right way. I think he will." 

SMC takes third in Division III at National Catholic Invitational 
By KIMBERLY BERO Soorts Writer 

The Saint Mary's swim team wrapped up its premiere home dual-meet Saturday as the team competed in the National Catholic Invitational hosted in Rolrs Aquatic Center. 
The Invitational included men's and women's competi­tion on both the Division I and Division IU levels. Teams par­ticipating in the meet included Notre Dame, Boston College, LaSalle. John Carroll, and Saint Mary's. 
The Belles finished third in the Division Ill competition, placing just behind Catholic University and John Carroll. 
"Things got pretty hectic at the end of the meet. We missed rrrst place by a very small mar­gin," said head coach Greg Jan­son. 
Although set back by fatigue and inexperience in three-day meets, the Belles surpassed prior expectations, said Janson. 
"Even though we were prob­ably the only team present not shaved and tapered, just about all of our time splits were either personal or season bests," said Janson. 
"Everyone on the team per· formed exceptionally," said 

sophomore Jennifer Dyjak. 
Despite the fact that the Belles had the home pool ad­vantage, this was not the lone factor contributing to the team's success. 
"We were familiar with the pool. It's fast. However, had we swam in a similar pool somewhere else, we would have done just as well," said Janson. 
"We felt more comfortable, but I don't think that is why we performed well. I think our tough workouts enhanced our performance," added Dyjak. 
Although the meet results were favorable for the Belles, the team has room for im­provement, said Janson. 
"We need more experience in this type of meet format; but, this meet will definitoly help us," said Janson. 
Invitational standouts includ­ed .Jill Cooper who made the consolation finals in the 100 meter breaststroke, and Tara Krull who excelled in the 200 meter butterfly. Also, Shannon Kelleher made it to the consola­tion finals in the 500 meter freestyle and the championship finals in the 1650 meter freestyle. 
The Belles' next meet will be away at Carroll College. 
NFL Football Colts upset New York Jets, but Bengals fell to San Francisco this weekend. 
see page 12 



