The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 85 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/ Sue Kehias 

Sunny South Bend 
Morrissey Hall freshman Ryan Schroeder takes advantage of the mild weather and plays some football on South Quad yesterday. 

Clinton's stimulus aims to produce jobs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton's economic stimu­lus package will create an "immediate rush" of 250,000 new jobs and help the president fulfill his promise of 8 million in four years, Labor Secretary Robert Reich said Wednesday. 
Reich said Clinton's economic program, which is still being developed, would focus on initiatives that offered the best promise of creating the most jobs quickly. He said this was critical because the current recovery, unlike past upturns, threatens to leave many people permanently unemployed. 
Private economists, studying the emerging outlines of Clin­ton's program, said Reich's forecast of 250,000 new jobs this·year and 8 million over four years was optimistic but not beyond the realm of possibility. 
But they said numerous roadblocks could thwart these goals: from bureaucratic delay in spending the money to a Federal Reserve that could slam on the brakes by raising interest rates to fight inflation. They were more optimistic about the short-term than the long-term goal. 
"These aren't outlandish claims by any means," said Roger Brinner, an economist at DRI-McGraw Hill Inc., the country's largest private fore­casting firm. 

"It is not unreasonable to as­sume that you could get an ex­tra 250,000 jobs over the next 12 months from their package compared to what the economy would have done on its own," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch in New York. 
Reich said Clinton has not made final decisions on the economic stimulus program. But congressional sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the admin­istration was studying a $31 bil­lion short-term package that would include $16 billion in 
see JOBS I page 4 


Robinson: Students should help Clinton 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
As President Clinton searches for a direction to take in foreign policy, it is up to the citizens, particularly students, of the United States, to give him an answer, according to Randall Robinson, U.S. spokesman for ANC leader Nelson Mandela. 
Robinson said that the U.S. is at a crossroads in U.S./African relatiuns in a lecture yesterday titled, "Policies on South Africa and Haiti in the New Adminis­tration." The U.S. faces the end of the Cold War and the begin­ning of a new administration, he said. 
Nations to which the U.S. has shown humanitarian effort are victims of Cold War foreign re­lations, as the U.S. has targeted countries that have denounced Soviet Communism and re­warded them with aid, he said. 
"We cared more about their stand toward the Soviet Union than what they're doing to themselves," he said. "We wanted them on our side. We simply have not cared at all about democracy in Africa." 
Robinson, who in the spring will testify before the House Foreign Affairs Committee regarding the direction the U.S. should take toward Africa, criticized the Bush and Reagan administrations for not allocat­ing enough funds to fledgling democracies in Africa. He cited one case where the U.S. gave one nation near South Africa only $500,000, while President Bush spent "billions of dollars in the Persian Gulf." 
Foreign policy also needs improvement in light of rela­tions with Haiti and other eco­nomically troubled Caribbean nations, Robinson said. He continued that the U.S. has his­torically favored Europe, and that African nations and Caribbean island nations have traditionally been neglected. 
"There's no accident that the Statue of Liberty stands in New York Harbor, facing Europe, not near Miami, facing Cuba," he said. 
The refugees running for their lives from Haiti have about a one in two chance of reaching the U.S. alive once they board the boats. He said they are so desperate to escape their life in Cuba that they are willing to take this chance. 
Robinson spoke of nations struggling toward freedom and democracy and cited that 7 mil­lion of 28 million South African people currently live in dilapi­dated shacks. 

"Countries who are turning themselves around deserve our support," he said. 
American ignorance gives rise to much of the problem of poverty throughout the world, and the United States' foreign policy reaction to it, Robinson said. For example, in a r, cent survey, one out of every 18 Americans could not find the United States on a map, he said. 
He said that Angola, an African nation, that has been supplied funds and arms, has the largest amputee population on the face of the earth. He said that this is due largely to the U.S.-supplied mines and weapons. 
"No one knows where Angola is," he said. "Democracy cannot work with globally illiterate people." 
Robinson urged students to be aware of issues that face underprivileged nations, and the American response to them. 
see ROBINSON I page 4 


Candidates present platforms at debate 
By EMILY HAGE News Writer 
Candidates presented their platforms at the 1993 student body president and vice presi­dent debate yesterday at the Ballroom at LaFortune Student Center. 
Undergraduate education at Notre Dame was an important topic. David Reinke, running as presidential candidate with Lara Dickey, said that under­graduate education is a priority for them. "We must ensure that every student leaves here with a top-knotch education," said Reinke. One of their sug­gestions is to "give the student body the opportunity to hear big name speakers," said Dickey. 
Nikki Wellmann, vice presi­dential candidate running with presidential candidate Frank Flynn, said that one of their long-term objectives is "to im­prove the quality of undergrad­uate education at Notre Dame." They said that "The Guide," a publication including the con­tent, workload, and professor ratings of each course offered, would help to achieve their goal. Flynn said that it would, "force teachers to pick up the pace." 
Presidential candidate Joseph Karian and vice presidential candidate Sam Thomas pre­sented the proposal of a teacher evaluations' supplement for students to "clarify what courses and professors [students] might be interested in taking," said Karian. 
Giving students a say was also addressed as a priority for many tickets. Christopher Murphy, whose vice presidential running mate is Emily Bloss, said that they want "more student involvement in the administrative process; a more unified voice." Murphy proposed taking polls to dis­
.


N····n····. 
ELECTIONS 1993 · 

cover the opinions and wants of students. 
"Student solutions should be campus concerns," Karian said. "We are sick of committees and task forces. We would take a more direct approach." 
Michael Connelly, whose vice­presidential candidate, Tom Kovats, could not attend because of his commitment to the volleyball team, said, "The students are here for the Uni­versity, not the other way around. This University thrives because of the students." 
The Reinke/Dickey ticket, too, expressed a concern for student contributions. Reinke said that he and Dickey want "to make Student Government more responsible to the student body." 
Possible solutions to reduce the price of text books were of­fered by the Stephanie Gallo, presidential candidate and running mate Chris Browning Gallo and Browning proposed the "Lease A Book" system, in which students would lease books from the Bookstore at a reduced price and return them at the end of the semester. Gallo said, "We believe it's a compromise. The students and the Bookstore would benefit." 
Flynn and Wellmann also offered a solution in the form of "The Book Fair," which would be a campus-wide service to students to buy used books from one another at a reduced cost. 
Both Flynn/Wellmann and Gallo/Browning also presented proposals to increase student-
see DEBATE I page 4 


The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 

Randall Robinson, the U.S. spokesman for ANC leader Nelson Mandela, said in a lecture yesterday that U.S. citizens, especially students need to give President Clinton direction in foreign policy. 
.-------------~--------------------~-~---­
page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
saddle 
•


aga1n 
How 'bout them Cowboys? It's good to be back on top, and obviously, more 
Assistant News 
than a few anti-Dallas 
Editor
Cowboys fans are tired of 

hearing about how the________ Cowboys trounced the now-perennial Super Bowl punching bag Buffalo Bills 52-17. For all their bitter contempt, I bet these anti­Cowboys folk love hating the Cowboys as much as Cowboys' fans love them. Besides, they've got to have someone good to hate rather than the lowly 1-15 team ofjust four years ago. It's been 15 long years since the Cowboys won the Super Bowl, when they schooled the Denver Broncos, 27-10. I don't want to mention that 1979 Super Bowl loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers, 35-31. I must admit that, for the sake of money, I did hope that Rafael Septien would have missed the extra point, leaving the score at 35-30. From that point on, they weren't the same. Most noticeably because they never made it back to the big dance. But, they were the Cowboys. They were "America's Team." Tom Landry's hat was an unmistakably familiar sight along the sidelines on game day. Everything else was normal. There was no helmet-haired Jimmy Johnson yelling at the referees. All that could be seen was Landry ­calm, cool, collected ... they don't make them like that any more. He continued to coach, guiding them to 20 straight winning seasons. He was an icon that was as synonymous with the Cowboys as the big blue star on the side of their helmets. It was hard to forget his American Express commercial, when, surrounded by archrival Washington Redskins' players, said, "American Express ... because you never know when you're going to be surrounded by a bunch of Redskins." He coached some great players. Who could forget players like Harvey Martin, Ed "Too Tall" Jones, Tony Dorsett, Robert Newhouse, Charlie Waters, Randy White, Drew Pearson and Roger "The Dodger" Staubach. The stars of the 70s gave way to the 80s, and unfortunately, a small, steady decline. These superstars were replaced by the likes of Danny White, Michael Downs, Doug Donley, (Who's Doug Donley? No. 83) Michael Downs, Tom Rafferty and the still-present Bill Bates. Granted, there were some fairly excellent players, but they weren't the same people whose members had created the "Doomsday Defense." But, Landry hung in there. In 1982, "The Catch" came, when Dwight Clark beat Everson Walls for the San Francisco 49ers' come-from­behind 28-27 victory in the 1982 NFC championship game. His firing, over four years ago, drew heat from Cowboys' fans everywhere, especially in the city of Mission, Texas, (population, 22,000) where he played high school football for my alma mater, the Mission High Eagles. But, he was not the Cowboys. Times change, and so do teams. I will never cheer for Johnson, but I do praise him for what he's done for my team. He's no Landry, but then again, no one else is. 
The views expressed in the Inside Comulan are those of the author and not nexessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Systems Alicia Reale Macy Hueckel Bevin Kovalik Matt Carbone 
VIewpoint Production Lynn Bauwens Susan Marx 
Kim Massman Accent Kenya Johnson Sports Jonathan Jensen Graphics Brian Kubicki Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Gorbachev to testify against coup
•MOSCOW -Former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev said in an interview published Wednesday he is eager to testify against his former Communist Party colleagues accused of trying to overthrow him in 1991. The trial of the 12 alleged coup leaders is to begin April 
14. Some 120 witnesses are expected. The trial could shed light on lingering questions including allegations that Gorbachev knew about the coup beforehand. Last year, Gorbachev clashed with Russia's Constitutional Court over his refusal to testify in another trial that stemmed from the August 1991 putsch. The Constitutional Court was weighing the validity of Russian President Boris Yeltsin's order banning the Communist Party. But Gorbachev told Literaturnaya Gazeta that the criminal case against the coup leaders is different. "Unless it takes place, it is unlikely that we will be able to build a rule-of-law state," he said. "We will not be able to do without it. I hail this trial." 
NATIONAL 
Mental gatients medically exploited 
OF INTEREST 
•summer 
Internship Positions in Russia are available through the Notre Dame Council on International Busi­ness Development. Knowledge of the Russian language is not required. Applications are available outside of 122 Hayes-Healy. For more information, contact Kelly (284­5167) or Kathy {634-2764). 

•sands 
or Musicians interested in playing in an Acoustic Fest for AIDS awareness at Saint Mary's Dalloway's Cof­feehouse Saturday night should call Kelly Daugerdas at 277-1293. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 3 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 276,941,765 +2.53 to 246.45 S&P COMPOSITE +4.64 to 447.20 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +45.12 to 3,397.83 

UNCHANGED 534 

GOLD 
-$1.10 to $329.30 
SILVER -SO.Ql to $3.662 
Thursday, February 4, 1993 
FORECAST 
Clear and mild today with a high in the mid 40s. Increasing cloudiness and mild Friday with a high in the upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  ·5  ·18  
A11anta  55  30  
Bogota  66  50  
Cairo  54  45  
Chicago  38  24  
Cleveland  32  25  
Dallas  64  52  
Detroit  34  26  
Indianapolis  39  22  
Jerusalem  34  28  
London  46  37  
Los Angeles  58  52  
Madrid  57  39  
Minneapolis  42  24  
Moscow  37  23  
Nashville  52  24  
New Yor1<  27  24  
Paris  43  34  
Philadelphia  30  21  
Rome  57  28  
Seattle  57  41  
South Bend  38  25  
Tokyo  52  36  
Washington, D.C.  34  22  


dren, have unknowingly been given experimental drugs. The lawsuit focuses on 10 long-term research experiments studying the effect of psychotropic drugs on Alzheimer's disease, AIDS dementia and schizophrenia. The unapproved drugs have been known to cause strokes, heart attacks, convulsions and even death, according to the lawsuit, which names the state Office of Mental Health. The lawsuit seeks to stop the treatments. Robert Spoor, a spokesman for the state Office of Mental Health, said the experiments comply with all federal regulations. 
School must remove picture of Jesus 
•GRAND 
RAPIDS, Mich. -A federal judge sided with a 17-year-old high school senior Wednesday and ordered his public school to remove a portrait of Jesus Christ that's been displayed in a hall for about 30 years. Judge Benjamin Gibson ruled that displaying the picture at Bloomingdale High School is unconstitutional because it violates the First Amendment, which prohibits government from establishing a religion. He gave school officials until March 1 to remove the 2-foot-by-3-foot framed print of artist Warner Sallman's Head of Christ, which is bolted to a wall outside the principal's office. "The primary effect of the school's display of the picture is to advance religion in general and Christianity in particular," Gibson wrote. Officials at the 450-student school say the picture serves a secular function by informing students about Jesus as a historical figure. 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski Club will have a meeting tonight at 


7:30 p.m. in room 184 Nieuwland to discuss the trip to Steamboat, Colo. Call Chris Boone at 273-2958 with questions. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1783: Britain declared a formal cessation of hostilities with its former colony, the United States of America. 

• 
In 1789: Electors unanimously chose George Washington as the first president of the United States. 

• 
In 1861: Delegates from six southern states met in Montgomery, Ala., to form the Confederate States of America. 

• 
In 1957: Luis Somoza was elected president of Nicaragua. 

• 
In 1971: The British automaker Rolls-Royce, Ltd., declared bankruptcy. 

• 
In 1985: Rebels in Peru blacked out parts of the city of Lima 30 minutes after the arrival of Pope John Paul II . 



Thursday, February 4, 1993 The Observer page3 
Newbold: Marketing is important for health care 
By GWEN DUFFIELD Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
It is important to provide the necessary medical services for patients through marketing within the health care adminis­tration, said Philip Newbold. 
"Marketing was not very well entrenched in health care back when I began working in the profession and still isn't," said Newbold, president and chief executive officer of Memorial Health System,Inc. 
Newbold said it is important to serve the needs and expec­tations of patients, the public, physicians, and insurance companies or payers in the health care profession. 
In discussing the role of the customer in health care, New­bold stressed that each cus­tomer has a need or desire for service, money to exchange for the service, and choices to make about what care the cus­tomer wants and from whom he or she wants it. 
"There are no longer mass markets in health care because everything is now customized for the individual. Since each customer is unique, we have to communicate with our patients, doctors and employees to see that their needs are taken care of," said Newbold. 
"Half of the job in health care will be resolving the problems that arise so that people's ex­pectations are met," he said. 
"And handling these problems will improve your business and skills." 
He said that people in the health care profession need to become more accountable for providing quality management in consumer health care. 
"Quality in health care is exceeding people's expectations by doing right things right," said Newbold. "This can be accomplished by establishing total quality management and continuous quality improvement," he added. 
Quality should entail focusing on the customers where everyone is involved and responsible for interacting with those in their hospital commu­nity. 
"Too many businesses are oriented toward themselves, the providers but it is necessary to manage relations with your customers since they are the people who give you business," said Newbold.To help solve problems which surface with patients, Newbold supported the need for more extensive knowledge and training for all those in the health profession. 
"Instead of having a pyramid where top senior managers have the most control, we should flatten the pyramid into a circular work force where power is also distributed among the work force who perform the jobs," he said. 
By JOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
The second round of the Notre Dame Iceberg Debates was concluded last night. At is­sue was whether or not the ban on homosexuals in the United States military should be lifted. 
The topic has been a promi­nent topic of discussion for the past few weeks, since President Clinton reaffirmed his intent to issue an executive order lifting the decades old rule that barred homosexuals from the military. 
Sorin Hall defeated the Alumni A team to remain the only unbeaten dorm at 4-0. Breen Phillips beat Badin, while the Alumni B team split with Siegfried. 
Keenan tied Dillon, as did Stanford with their split decision with St. Edward's. Fisher Hall, unable to fill a team, has dropped out of com­petition. 
Alumni B, Sorin, Stanford, Breen Phillips, and Keenan ar­gued for the affirmative side. 
Amy Listerman, chair of the Iceberg Debates, said that the decisions did not reflect the strength of the argument, but rather the strength of the de­baters. 
"Our concern was that the positive side would win. But since more negatives have won as of Monday, it's probably how the debates have gone, and not the arguments themselves." 
Those arguing the affirmative side of the resolution tended to 

Iceberg Debates finish round two 

focus on the constitutionality of the ban on homosexuals. 
George Rau, a sophomore on the Stanford Hall Iceberg team, argued that as long as homosexuality is recognized as a biologically-determined preference and not a mental illness, the military could not constitutionally prevent gays from serving. 
John Emery, also a sopho­more in Stanford Hall, com­pared Clinton's determination to lift the ban on homosexuals to President Harry Truman's decision to desegregate the military. 
He argued that like the entrance of blacks into the military, the entrance of gays would "act as a vehicle for so­cial change." 
Those arguing against the resolution said that there is no parallel between the situations of gays and blacks in the mili­tary. 
Joe Wagner and E.L. Chaffee, both sophomores from St. Edward's Hall, pointed to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell's argument that homosexuality is a behav­ioral question, not a simple question of right and wrong. 
The third round of the Ice­berg debates will be held Feb. 
9. The resolution to be debated is whether or not Notre Dame should recognize pro-choice student groups. 
House approves family leave legislation,Senate approval expected 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House on Wednesday approved family leave legislation, the lead item on an ambitious social agenda that Democratic law­makers share with President Clinton. 
The bill -guaranteeing mil­lions of workers 12 weeks of unpaid leave to deal with family emergencies -was approved homosexuals in the military. on a 265-163 vote. The Senate The Senate late Wednesday is considering its own, nearly postponed further debate for identical, version of the mea­one day after Democratic and sure. Republican leaders failed to 
Senate approval was expected agree on a GOP-led bid to have within a day or two, after a de­the chamber debate Clinton's lay caused by Republican ob­plan to lift the ban on gays in jections over Clinton's efforts to the military. reshape the nation's ban on 
-,~----~~------~~--------------------~
Be Our Guest ... Be Our Guest! 
Here are 6 more reasons to attend the 
THE ALL-NIGHT DISNEY MOVIE MARATHON! 
6. Goodie Bags to those attending 
The  Rescuers  at  1:30a.m.  
5.  A Good  Study Break!  
4 .  A Great  First  Date! (FREE) .  

3. Popcorn, Cotton Candy, Soda 
2 . The Sleepover Your Parents Would Not Let You Have! 
1. GREAT DISNEY CLASSICS 
-101 Dalmations-9:00p.m. -Beauty and the Beast-10:30p.m. -The Jungle Book-12:00a.m. -The Rescuers-1:30a.m. -Fantasia-2:45-4:45a.m. 
February 6, 1993 in the Ballroom o.fLaFortune 
"We're not trying to delay the bill," said Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., pre­dicting the family leave mea­sure could be passed Thursday if the gays issue is resolved. 
Republicans want to either attach it as an amendment to family leave or as a free­standing bill; Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell set a meeting with fellow Democrats for Thursday to figure out how to proceed. 
Befor-e postponing further debate on family leave, the Se­nate waded through -and re­peatedly rejected -GOP-pro­posed changes to the bill. 
Open the door to yourfuture with 
aUMMBA. 
Fulfill your dreams with an MBA from UM. We offer ftexible and innova­tive programs such as our one-year MBA for students with an under­graduate business degree and our two-year program for bachelors students without abusiness degree. Both of these programs offer you the opportunity to pursue two complementary specializations such as: 
• 
Finance and International Business 

• 
Marketing and Computer Information Systems 

• 
Health Administration and Human Resource Management 

• 
Marketing and Strategic Management 

• 
Accounting and Computer Information Systems 


With our dual degree Masters in International Business (MIBS), you will earn an MBA and a Master of Science in International Business with aguaranteed internship in the country of your selected language specialty. 
As you approach graduation and complete your program, our place­ment office is solely dedicated to finding employment opportunities for our graduate business students. 
If you are intrigued by these challenging and rewarding opportunities, C?ll us at 1-800-531-7137, and we will show you how to get started on the rest of your life. 

GRADUATE BUSINESS PROGRAMS, P.O. BOX 248505, CORAl GABLES, FL 33124-6524 
-----~-----­
of LaFortune, including Allegro 
and the pool room, opened for 
24 hours, increasing the funds
Debate Worker opens fire at factory killing one 
continued from page 1 

alumni relations.• Wellmann described "The Job Bank," a network between students and alumni to assist students in getting jobs with the help of alumni. They support a mentor program organized through career placement and the Alumni Association. "The in­ternship program is not orga­nized," said Gallo. "It should be available to everyone, no matter what career we choose." 
Gallo discussed "The Job Market," to "refine and up­grade"communications be­tween students and alumni through such means as direct mailing to "maximize informa­tion and help put our education to work," said Gallo. 
Individual candidates dis­cussed additional issues, as well. In alphabetical order: 
Connelly said that he and Ko­vats aim at "eliminating the restrictions of the administra­tion." Their ticket objects to the University's present alcohol policy and parietals. 
Flynn and Wellmann, who said that their ideas are "completely feasible," described an on-campus storage facility for students on Stepan Road, costing each student five dollars. They also discussed the availability of financial aid and the improvement of social life on campus, particularly maintenance of SYRs. 
The Gallo/Browning ticket advocates having the basement allocated to the budget for stu­dent clubs, and including a multi-cultural emphasis in freshmen seminar courses. "Putting Notre Dame to work. That's our goal," said Gallo. 
Correction Because of incorrect in­formation from the Notre Dame Mock Trial organiza­tion, The Observer incor­rectly reported the year of member Chris Werling. He is a sophomore. The Observer regrets the error.  
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS  

Karian and Thomas said that their primary goal is to estab­lish a weighted D.A.R.T. (Direct Access Registration by Tele­phone) system, to increase fairness in the registration system. "Sam and I have simple solutions to simple problems," Karian said. 
Murphy and Bloss said that their objectives include chang­ing the alcohol policy, improv­ing funding for non-varsity ath­letics, developing a debit card, establishing a smoking room, and improving student parking. "We are here to represent change," said Murphy. 
Reinke and Dickey, who said that they represent "idealism and realism," discussed their "Taxi Voucher" idea, in which students could use cabs on credit. They also discussed fi­nancial aid, gender relations, and a revised meal plan. 
They also proposed setting up desks on Field House Mall in the spring and fall, in addition to monthly forums and publishing Student Governments budgets. "We believe that Student Gov­ernment has a responsibility to deal with real problems," said Reinke. 
Student Body elections will be held on February 8. 
EL DORADO, Ark. (AP) -A factory employee opened fire at the plant where he worked Wednesday, killing one person and wounding seven others be­fore being subdued by a wounded victim, authorities said. 
Michael Wayne Burns, 37, of El Dorado, was arrested in the shooting at the Prescolite Inc. plant., said Tammie Fitzgerald of the Union County sheriff's office. Fitzgerald said late Wednesday she didn't know if Burns had been charged. 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 

public works spending this year and $15 billion in business tax breaks, primarily from a targeted investment tax credit. 
But whatever the final shape, Reich said, "Our goal is an immediate rush of about 250,000 jobs." 
In remarks on "CBS This Morning," Reich said that Clin­ton's program would be "labor intensive" and would have a multiplier effect in which the increased government spending and tax reductions would produce increased spending by the private sector as well. He 
BE SUAVE ... 

DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE! 
Happy 
20th Lisa! 

Love, Your Manv Fans 
Burns was listed in critical condition with a head injury at University Hospital in Little Rock. He was struck by a pipe wielded by victim Darryl Mc­Curdy, according to the El Do­rado News-Times. 
McCurdy, 39, of El Dorado, was listed in stable condition at an El Dorado hospital with gun­shot wounds to his side and wrist. 
Burns used three handguns to fire at other employees as they returned to work after taking 
said a summer youth program to give unemployed teenagers work would be part of the package. 
In a later interview with The Associated Press, Reich refused to provide any breakdown on where the administration ex­pected the 250,000 jobs to come from. 
But he said, "The goal is making sure the money gets out there quickly .... The job picture is not yet where it should be for this stage of a so-called recovery." 
Reich cited the announce­ments last week that Sears planned to eliminate 50,000 jobs and other major companies including IBM were also cutting thousands of jobs. 
lunch breaks, according to a statement from the sheriff's office. The News-Times quoted an investigator as saying Burns used .22-caliber, 9mm and .38­caliber weapons. 
"A note was found (on Burns) by authorities which indicates th'at he was angry at fellow employees," the state­ment said. 
Investigators said the note indicated Burns was upset over harassment by other workers, but wouldn't disclose any other details about the note. 
Robinson 
continued from page 1 
He spoke of the "political ferment" of the 1960's, and how it brought an end to such American conflicts as Vietnam. 
"Students have special re­sponsibility of being the moral commanders of society," he said. "As [President Clinton) is grappling with the question of where to go next with regard to foreign policy, it is up to you and me to supply him with the answer." 

Paid Advertisement 
First American Made Sumo Grand Champion 
TOKYO (AP) -Despite reluctance by some Japanese to see a foreign wrestler finally reach the pinnacle of their ancient sport, a committee decided Monday that a towering American had earned the rank of grand champion. 
A day after Dave Regnier blitzed local favorite Takahanada out of the ring in a few seconds to win his second straight 15-day Regnier, with personal trainer Sam 

Watson, has moved quickly through the 

tournament, he was awaiting only 
Sumo ranks. 

the formality of one more meeting "I'll do my best to train well and on Wednesday before assuming fulfill everyone's expectations," the title of "yokozuna." 
the 6-foot, 455-pound Regnier said. 

The 21-year-old from Kankakee who gave up basketball for the life He is known in Japan by his of an apprentice sumo wrestler sumo name of Akebono, or only five years ago, will be the Sunrise, but Americans call him 64th sumo grand champion. 
Sumo Dave. 



Ill
Earn for 
::z: 
....
Spring Break 

Waiters, Waitresses 
HEY JUNIORS!
and Food Services Help needed for 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS
JPW Catering Events 
& JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1993-94
February 1 5-February 21 ARE NOW AVAILABLE
Sign ups are from 1 0 a.m.-4 p.m. daily Basement of SOH 
PICK THEM UP AT THE 0FF1CE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIFS 
J p w 1 9 9 3 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 

--~---~­

Thursday, February 4, 1993 The Observer 
U.N. uses emergency food reserves 


SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP)-U.N. aid workers have been forced to dip into emergency food reserves in the embattled capital because bat­tles along a key land route have slowed or blocked aid convoys, officials said Wednesday. 
Sarajevo and other Bosnian cities under siege by rebel Serb forces depend entirely on U.N. shipments for food and fuel ­both of which are in short sup­ply as people try to survive the winter. Hospitals and bakeries are running low on diesel fuel for their generators. 
In Croatia, a French U.N. peacekeeper was wounded when his armored vehicle struck an anti-tank mine near the Bosnian border, said a U.N. spokesman in Zagreb, the Croatian capital. 
Rebel Serbs reportedly at­tacked Croatian defense lines 
-~-day's attack, UNHCR _.~~!!~~~~spokesman Larry Hollingworth said. 
despite suffering considerable losses Tuesday in an escalating battle for Croatia's Serb-held Krajina region. 
Fighting also raged in Bosnia, even as leaders of the warring factions prepared to meet at the United Nations for peace talks. 
More than 18,000 people have died in Bosnia in 10 months of fighting among Serbs, Croats and Muslims. In Croatia, about 10,000 died in clashes in 1991 before a U.N.-brokered truce. Fighting resumed late last month. 
The United Nations said it was halting all aid convoys traveling to Sarajevo via Mostar, Bosnia, after a relief truck took a direct artillery hit. A local translator was killed and the convoy's Danish leader was wounded. 
The route will remain closed until the U.N. High Commis­sioner for Refugees receives safety assurances and a satis­factory explanation for Tues­

U.N. relief trucks now must use alternate routes that take twice as long, Hollingworth said. 
Tony Land, head of the UN­HCR office in Sarajevo, said the interruption meant the agency had to go into its diminishing reserves. As it is, Sarajevo is not getting the daily minimum 270 tons of food it needs. 
Overland convoys are often slowed or stopped by fighting, roadblocks and bad roads. Poor weather frequently limits aid getting in by airlift. 
Seventeen of 20 planned flights with 160 tons of aid ar­rived Wednesday in Sarajevo, said a U.N. logistics officer in Zagreb. 
One convoy of 10 trucks did reach Sarajevo Wednesday, said Zagreb UNHCR spokesman Peter Kessler. It came by a different route. 
But the Mostar road ban dashed hopes of a convoy car­rying diesel reaching Sarajevo by Friday. 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 

first months rent with this ad 

~N Esp 
~ 11:45 a.m. ­
C I
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Celebran"ta 
Padre Bruce Cecil. c .. s .. c. 
Sponsored byGlmpus MimstryCoro Prim<~vera de Nuestra Senora 
0N\PUS 
-

MNISTRY 
The Department Of Music Presents 
Carolyn Plummer & William Cerny 
In a faculty 
o/iofin ana Piano 1\gcita[ 

· ·· · Sunday, February 7, 1993, 2:00p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
Hurry! 
Only 2 Houses left 
•4 
and 5 Bedroom 

•Security 
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished 


287-4989 Laurie McKelvey $100 off 

GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MoNTANA 
Come have the best summer of your life. Enjoy the invi gorating, challenging experience of living in the awesome 
Rocky Mountains. 
St. Mary Lodge & Resort, Glacier Parks finest, is now hiring for the 1993 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career & Placement Center, February 8th and 9th. Schedule an interview through your Career Placement Services now. 
Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime. 
FACULTY DINING ROOM 
OPEN: MONDAY -FRIDAY 11:30 A.M. 1:00 P.M. 

MODERATE PRICES LARGE TABLES QUIET SURROUNDINGS 
LOCATED ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL 
OBSERVE ALL SMOKING LAWS 

. ~~----· ~ -~~--­
Alabama closes student government Seven killed in testing 

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. (AP)-For decades, the way into student government at the University of Alabama has been the Machine, a shadowy collection of white fraternities and sororities highly effective at getting its people elected. 
Few people have been able to overcome the power of the Ma­chine, which has backed many student leaders who later made their mark in politics, including a number of congressmen. 
Even a leader-to-be like Ge­orge Wallace was no match for it. Wallace, the four-time gov­ernor and presidential candi­date, ran for a student post in the 1930s without Machine backing and lost. 
But after a non-Machine candidate for student president reported being beaten and slashed over the weekend and a cross was burned outside her house, administrators shut down the student government. 
While school officials say there's no proof the Machine is to blame and leaders of the coalition deny any role, admin­istrators and many students say it's time to start over. 
"When the contests are marked by violence. that's just a clear indication that something has to happen," said Harry Knopke, vice president for student affairs. 
Minda Riley, a non-Machine candidate for president of the Student Government Associa­tion, reported that a man en­tered her home Sunday night, bruised her cheek, busted her lip, cut her face with a knife and told her she was allied with the wrong people. 
Two months earlier, a cross was burned on the lawn of the white student's off-campus house, and threatening notes with the phrase "machine rules" were put in her mailbox and on her door. 
This week, the university suspended campus elections scheduled for next week. 
"Reform of student govern­ment on this campus has my full support," school President Roger Sayers said Tuesday. 
Riley and her supporters met with Sayers on Tuesday and urged him to allow elections to go on as scheduled. 
"Let me run, let me win and let me make some changes," Riley said. 
Sayers was not persuaded, however. 
Robbery money recovered, arrests made 
NEW YORK (APJ -The $8.2 million robbery of an armored truck company was solved Wednesday when almost all of the cash was found in a closet and two men were arrested, authorities said. 
The money, in $100 bills, had been taken in a Dec. 27 robbery at the Hudson Armored Car Co. with the help of a guard on duty at the company. said James Fox, head of the FBI's New York office. 
"This is what $8 million in cash looks like," Fox said, pointing at stacks of blue pack­ages money displayed at a news conference. The money was recovered in five unopened packages from a Brooklyn apartment. 
"As is very often the case whether we're looking for a fugitive or $8.2 million, it's right in our backyard," Fox said of the money, which weighed just over 1 00 pounds. 
The four burglars couldn't get rid of the cash because the bills were sequentially numbered and could be easily traced, Fox said. 
He said they apparently did manage to spend about $60,000 in cash that was not sequentially numbered. An additional $40,000 in checks was burned. 
"We felt we knew very early on who the felons were in this case," he said. 
Arrested were Robert Ser­rano, 28, of Brooklyn. and Joseph James Santiago, 24, of Bethpage. driver of the getaway car. authorities said. 
Plane crash at air base 
MARIETTA, Ga. (AP} -A one-of-a-kind cargo plane de· scribed as a "tly.ing laboratory" crashed and burned after ta.k· ing off from an Air Force base Wednesday, killing all seven aboard. 
The plane clipped a corner of a Navy medical clinic but caused minimal damage and no injuries there, said Lt. Pat Blas§ie. spokeswoman for Dob­bins Air ·Force Base in subur­ban Atlanta. About 50 workers had been in the clinic. 
'~:"I heard a hum. Something was coming down. Then I heard:~'a, boom," said Navy 
..Chief Hospital Corpsman Dou~ glas High. 
"All we tried to do was get everybody out the front door." High sald. adding that the back of the clinic building was en~ fJtUited, in flames. "There was no way we bad access to the plane," be said. 
\ll1/ The pil\e was a modified L· 1000, the commercial version of a C~l30 Hercules Transport. It was built and owned by Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co., which has a plant next to the base. The victims were Lockheed employees, company spokesman Doug Oliver said. ,;& 
'" The plane crashed and broke apart about 200 yards north of ~ DPbbiQ$ runway about 1:30 p.m. It came to rest on a low bill and burned. 
All seven aboard were killed, said RotT Sasser Ill, a National Transportation Safety Board investigator. 
The cause of the crash was under investigation. Oliver said the plane was conducting an engineering test at the time, but he wouldn't elaborate. 
The C~ 130 is a troop and cargo transport plane used by the military, but this plane was a special version used by Lock­heed for testing, said spokeswoman Susan Miles. 
"This one had a lot of equipment most C~130s don't have," she said. 
The plane, developed in 1984, was the only one of its kind and was called a High Technology Test Bed, or HTTB. 
According to Lockheed, the plane was a "flying labora­tory," equipped with data­gathering equipment to test new technologies. It was de­signed to fly at lower-than· normal speeds. mainly to test short~distance landing. 
A salesman at an auto deal­ership near the base said he saw the plane at treetop level. 
"AU of a sudden be took a sharp turn to the left, nose~ dived down to the ground ... and then the explosion and black smoke," said Jim Hurd. 



:First :fema[e President oftfie 
!llmerican Civi[ Liberties 1.1nion 
"SeNutll Htltttlssment 11nd Pornogr11plly" 
%urscfay, :February 4tfi 7:30PM J1esburgfi Library Jlucfitorium 
1111DI:NT UNION JO.UO
• 

SOPHOMORES 
Interested in organizing the most important and exciting weekend of your Junior year? 
Applications for the 1994 JPW CHAIRPERSON are now available at the Lafortune Information Desk. 
Experience not necessary but incentive is. Curious? Pick up an application today. 
DEADUNE-5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 5th at the student activities office. 
Questions? Call 1-2068 
., 

-~•••••••w~~-~-••­
Thursday, February 4, 1993 The Observer 
Student aid proposal discussed 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Edu­cators and several members of Congress on Wednesday praised a proposal to guarantee $14,000 a year in aid to every 
U.S. college student. Bankers and others criticized the plan as unworkable. 
Implementing such reforms would "subject students to a crapshoot because they might not work," said Sam Kipp, ex­ecutive director of the Califor­nia Student Aid Commission, which runs the state's grant and scholarship programs. 
Education Secretary Richard Riley said he was "delighted" that the congressionally man­dated commission chaired by former Sen. Paula Hawkins, R­Fla., "agrees with many of the Clinton Administration's pro­posals," such as partial repay­ment of student loans through community service. 
The $14,000 in assistance would be available regardless of family income, according to the recommendations of the National Commission on Re­sponsibilities for Financing Postsecondary Education. 
But less well-off students would get more in outright grants. And students from fam­ilies with higher incomes would get more in loans. The reforms would entail billions in new federal spending. 
The recommendations "reassert the federal role as primary in terms of financial aid; we haven't had that for 12 years," said Richard Rosser, president of the National Asso­ciation of Independent Colleges and Universities. 
Private "financial institutions would be cut out of the federal student aid program and a di­rect loan system would take its place. 

"This report steps on a lot of powerful financial toes" and those who favor the proposed reforms "are going to have to get in and fight for it," Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., who en­dorsed the commission's work, told a news conference. 
Relying on a "federal bu­reaucracy to deliver loans ... would be costly and counter­productive," said Lawrence Hough, president and chief ex­ecutive officer of the Student Loan Marketing Association. Known as Sallie Mae, the fed­erally chartered corporation buys student loans from finan­cial institutions. 
"It may be unrealistic to call for ... the elimination of the one reliable source of funds for families over the last twenty years," said Joe Belew, presi­dent of the Consumer Bankers Association. 
Clinton increasing defense budget cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton is weighing de­fense cuts of $8.5 billion beyond former President Bush's budget for the next fiscal year, congressional and defense in­dustry sources said Wednesday. 
Such a reduction in military spending could be expected to produce far-reaching effects elsewhere in the $1.5 trillion budget as Clinton looks for ways to reduce the deficit. 
The $8.5 billion cut under consideration by Clinton would reduce the defense budget to $259.3 billion from $267.8 bil­lion envisioned by the Bush administration for fiscal 1994, which starts Oct. 1. 
The actual cut could eventu­ally fall within the range of $7 billion to $10 billion, said the sources, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Defense Secretary Les Aspin has sent a budget· memo to each of the armed services, giv­ing a breakdown of the planned cuts. The Army is expected to trim $2.5 billion, the Navy $3 billion and the Air Force $2.8 billion, the sources said. 
The memo also calls for a $2.5 billion cut in spending on the Strategic Defense Initiative and theater missile defense program. The Bush budget planned to spend $6.2 billion on the two programs in fiscal 1994. 
Including the SDI cut, the overall reduction totals about 

$10.8 billion, but the Pentagon is subtracting some $2.5 billion in savings that it thought it would realize from its stream­lining and modernizing of the Defense Department. 
Pentagon officials have said the defense management re­view will not produce the esti­mated savings. 
Under the Clinton adminis­tration, U.S. troop levels in Eu­rope will be reduced to 100,000 by the end of fiscal 1996, the memo said. Troops there now number slightly more than 200,000, down from a high of about 325,000 during the height of the Cold War. 
Aspin has asked the services to submit their planned cuts to his office by Feb. 8. 


J~ss~ Jackson 
•Two tirre D3n.Jcratic 
Pre3ici:rtial 
cardicate 

•Presid:nt of the Rainl:xJw Ccalitim 
•Shadow Senator fran VVa.shington, D.C. 
Tickets available at t:.re laForturE Infonratim IBsk from 9AM tolO PM. 'Th..oticketsrer I.D., ere I.D. rer r:ers:n. A bm:i.tEd l11.Irl:Er oftickets are available. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -It looks like a trade world turned upside down: The Commerce Department rules that an American company unfairly dumped electric typewriters in the United States -injuring a Japanese company. 
Outrageous? Not really in a world of multinational compa­nies. 
The Japanese company is Brother USA, a subsidiary of Brother Industries of Nagoya, Japan. But it makes all the electric typewriters it sells in the United States at a plant employing 600 Americans in Bartlett, Tenn. 
The American company is Smith Corona of New Canaan, Conn. Asked about the irony of being sued by the Japanese for dumping in the United States, company spokeswoman Patricia Corriell said, "Several people have pointed that out." 
But Smith Corona imports 
Gates Toyota 
20% off to all students and faculty when seryicing your Toyota af Gates Toyota S~rvice Department. 
Shuttle Bus available to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Call237-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.5 5 
"I love whatyou dofor me." 
@TOYOTA 
page 7 

most of the typewriters it sells here from a wholly owned subsidiary in Singapore. And Cornell said the company is closing its' only U.S. typewriter­making plant, in Cortland, N.Y., 
· laying off 775 Americans and moving the operation to Mexico. To add to the multinational mix, nearly half of Smith Corona -4 7. 6 percent -is owned by a British conglomer­ate, Hanson PLC. The ruling this week, in a case dating from the Bush administration, should not sur­prise the new Democratic lead­ers. Robert Reich, secretary of 
J

labor and close economic ad­
J 

viser to President Clinton, j wrote in the latest issue of the Harvard Business School magazine: 
j 

"In the global enterprise the bonds between company and j country ... are rapidly eroding. Today corporate decisions 
j

about production and location are driven by the dictates of global competition, not by na­tional allegiance." 
Pat Gilmore, president of Brother International, the Japanese company's marketing arm in the United States, said the Commerce Department ruling "is a clear statement of Brother's role as the leading 
U.S. portable electric typewriter manufacturer" 
In its preliminary ruling Monday, Commerce said portable electric typewriters produced by Smith Corona PTE Ltd. of Singapore "are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value." 
Summer Jobs 

Like Children? Like the Outdoors? 
We are looking for energetic people to work as camp counselors in Northern Minnesota. Looking for staff in sailing, swimming, boardsailing, tennis, fencing, archery, tiflery, biking, waterskiing, arts/ 
• crafts, soccer, environmental studies and more... 
Come see us: Friday, Feb. 5 at LaFortune and LeMans both from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00p.m. 
Arafat hopes for new initiatives 
f B.AGIIDAD, Iraq (API.-PLO ( :.,. •... ~.... ~... -: ~:, chief Vasser Ararat said arter , •., ·.,. •,... •, :· •; talking. with President Saddam •. ·, •.. •..~;<' Hussein on Wednesday that he ·• ·<-•,,~ ~. • t \ ~<~p.ed. Sadda£? would otTer ~ew :'"', :.. • .. ~-(' .... " ~ ! Initiatives to Improve relatiOns , ~-• • · ....... ,~. with the West. • ·t,·­"We hope that next time there ''/,_/,·;'./ will be a positive response by · the other side," he said in a TV interview in Baghdad at the end Vasser Arafat 
of a fence-mending mission to Arafat told CNN that he and Iraq. Arafat did not elaborate. Saddam discussed relations in general with the Western allies, Sources in the Palestine Lib­including the cease-fire Iraq 
eration Organization had said declared last month in the al-Ararat would encourage Sad­lied-imposed "no-fly" zones of dam to avoid further con­northern and southern Iraq. 
frontations with the United States so as not to disturb Arab­The PLO chairman came to Israeli peace negotiations and Baghdad Monday night to dis-related issues. 
cuss the peace talks, Palestinian deportees in Lebanon and other regional developments. 
PLO sources said he also 
aimed to smooth ruffled feelings caused when a PLO envoy in Saudi Arabia made an apolo­getic statement last month about Palestinian support for Iraq during the Gulf War. 
The Saudis, Kuwaitis and 
other oil-rich Persian Gulf states, angered by Arafat's backing of Saddam, cut otT mil­lions in financial aid to the PLO. Mahmoud Abbas, of the PLO Executive Committee, went to Saudi Arabia in a trip aimed at 
reconciliation with the Gulf states. On the trip, he referred to Iraq's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait as "aggression." 
Envoy predicts large peacekeeping force 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) ­The biggest U.N. peacekeeping force ever, with a mandate to impose order rather than just maintain it, may replace the U.S.-led military coalition in Somalia, the world body's spe­cial envoy said Wednesday. 
Ismat Kittani, an Iraqi diplomat, said the situation re­quired a stronger approach than the usual passive role or only separating combatants. 
Meeting with reporters, Kit­tani said he did not know when the Security Council would reach an agreement on autho­rizing a peacekeeping force for this East African nation that has been ravaged by war and famine. 
The peacekeeping mission would replace a U.S.-led mili­tary force of about 38,000 per­sonnel, allowing the United States to withdraw some 20,000 servicemen and women. 
The Americans and allied troops have restored some 
order in Mogadishu and other parts of southern Somalia since Dec. 9 and relief aid is moving again. But the country still swarms with gunmen and rival clan militias continue to clash. 
Battles between two warlords outside the southern port of Kismayu derailed another round of peace talks among Somali clan leaders that were to have begun Monday in Mo­gadishu. U.N. officials said Wednesday that a Belgian army patrol found the bodies of 15 Somalis massacred during the fighting in the south. 
Kittani said a consensus was building within the United Na­tions to make the Somali peacekeeping force "very, very large and perhaps the largest" in U.N. history. 
He said the force could num­ber up to 20,000, which would be about 3,000 more than the United Nations has in Cambo­dia, its largest operation to 
date. 

lJFcoming Events 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4 
Brown Bag Seminar Series 
PATRICIA DAVIS 
Department of Government and 
International Studies 
JANIE LEATHERMAN 
Department of Government and 
International Studies 
Visiting Faculty Fellow, Kroc Institute 
"NEW THINKING AND 
TEACHING ON GENDER 
DEVELOPMENT AND 
HUNGER" 

12:15 p.m. -Hesburgh Center C-103 
INSTITUTE FOR 

----~~INTERNATIONAl
111111 ~N~!~!o~~~?l:: 
-----·----~ ---____ 
I 
j 

"If one were to venture a guess, I think the tendency is toward giving it an enforcement mandate, rather than the traditional peacekeeping man­date," K.ittani said. 
U.N. peacekeepers normally are not allowed to shoot unless shot at first and they do not try to impose cease-fires or confis­cate arms. 
The U.S. coalition has been operating under rules that al­low soldiers to shoot first if they consider themselves threat­ened. The force also has confis­cated weapons, and American and Belgian troops attacked a Somali warlord's militia to pre­vent an attack on another fac­tion. 
K.ittani said a U.N. force might need stronger powers so "we do not relapse to the chaotic situation" that gripped Somalia for two years. An estimated 350,000 Somalis died last year from war, famine and banditry. 

The Observer/ Sue Kehlas 
Splish splash 

Notre Dame women get in shape during a water aerobics class sponsored by Recsports at Rolfs Aquatic Center this semester. 
Pope cautions clergy about Church limits on political role 
COTONOU, Benin (AP) -Pope John Paul II cautioned churchmen about political activity as he began an African tour on Wednesday that will end in Sudan, where the Muslim government has been battling Christians for 10 years. 
The trip is the pontiiT's 1Oth to a continent where clerics in many parts are fighting for po­litical reform and the Roman Catholic church has found its most fertile ground for con­verts. Still, the pope made it clear that for the Vatican, spreading the Gospel is the heart of the church's mission. 
"It is right that church people, bishops and others free themselves from political tasks because the only political task of the church ... is evangeliza­tion," the pope told reporters aboard his special Alitalia flight from Rome to Benin. 
But it is another thing, he said, in places like the the Far East and Africa "where there are different peoples" who "look to church workers as people better prepared to help them." 
The archbishop in Benin's capital, Isidore de Souza, was president of the national con­ference that played midwife to the transition to democracy. 
When John Paul first visited Benin, in 1982, it was a strict Marxist-Leninist state. But popular protest compelled its dictator, Mathieu Kerekou, to call elections, which produced his defeat in March 1991. 
The pope cautioned clerics that while helping citizens to form a political community, "don't forget your task is not political." 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions 
Managing Editor 
lApplicants should have strong management and 
interpersonal skills, a solid base of Macintosh computer 
knowledg~, basic journalistic and editorial skills and 
some newspaper production experience. Any full-time ~ndergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or !Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
lAny sophpmore or junior Business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, February 5, 1993 at 5 p.m. For more information about these positions, call Managing Editor John Rock at 631-4541 or Business Manager Rich Riley at 631-5313. 
Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 4, 1993 page 9 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .........•.•.......... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent!Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Put ND to work: Vote Gallo 
It is an election complete with platforms calling for "people first," insiders running to continue the policies of the pre­sent and one team of ordinary people pushing for concrete, simple goals. 
Sound familiar? 

In a campus race strikingly similar to the recent national election, the Notre Dame. student body has its pick of six distinct tickets. The Observer endorses Stephanie Gallo and Chris Browning, a ticket with solid ideas and a vocal willingness to cut down on Student Government excess. In particular, their plan to formally link influential alumni and students in mentor programs and job searches is more than a campaign ploy -it will work, and it just might help the stu­dent body in the process. 
The Frank Flynn/Nikki Wellman ticket offered solid experi­ence, a good working relationship and an excellent idea for a couse and teacher guide. But declaring student storage "catastrophic" and making the construction of an on-cam­pus facility a top priority shows a lack of understanding of is­sues on the mtnds of most students and a plan that could hurt relations between the University and a business com­munity it tries hard to support. 
Other tickets were decidedly less impressive. Despite a lengthy platform statement, David Reinke and Lara Dickey were unable to present any original proposals except for the Taxi Tab program. Although refreshingly simple and straightforward, the Joseph Karian/Sam Thomas ticket did not appear to work as a team. Likewise, Mike Connelly did little to further his ticket's cause, and his runningmate Tom Kovats' absence from the debate was inexcusable. 
There's not much to say about the Chris Murphy/Emily Bloss ticket, except for their utter lack of respect for both the electoral process and the student body. 
Emerging from the field of candidates, Gallo resisted the temptation to dodge questioners, and even went on the record saying her administration would advocate the recognition a homosexual organization at Notre Dame. The ticket's response to that question and others showed earnest convictions, a mix of pragmatism and idealism, and a dual confidence to get things done. 
But a word of warning to Gallo, who could be the first woman student body president in Notre Dame's history: Re­evaluate and re-focus. Trim down your proposals and elimi­nate initiatives like the infeasible book leasing plan and misdirected mandated multicultural curriculum. Your plat­form calls for "putting Notre Dame to work." Turn your opti­mism and enthusiasm toward putting Student Government to work on projects that are wanted, needed and feasible. 
DOONESBURY 
WITHOUT A 50CIAL-55CI.JR/7Y NUMee<, YOU HAV5 NO PA5T AN(? YOU HAVe NO RJTURIHI'tl.-­ml-Y~ 7HISAl/GN 8USIN£93 
HAS REA£i..YRAISWMY 
CON5CJOU9N&SS.' --"'t\1 

Letter raises need for dialogue about classroom building 
Dear Editor: 
Even before reading Paul McDowell's letter about DeBar­tolo Hall technologies in The Observer (Feb. 1, 1993), I have been eager to dialogue with faculty about the new ways that DeBartolo can influence the teaching/learning process on campus. McDowell's request for constructive campus-wide dialogue is an excellent one. Perhaps an open meeting could be ar­ranged at a time suitable for as many as are interested. Not knowing what day or hour would be good, I invite DeBar­tolo users to to either call my office or to E-mail me with sugguestions. 
Sister Elaine DesRosiers, 
O.P. 
Professional Specialist Director of Educational Media 
Feb.1,1993 



GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
AI<& YOU 
ANAU&N, 
ZONKE31<~ 
0 

NO, NO, I'M IW eAK!HUNG/ BUT I CAN'T 
PROVe IT! 
\ 
"Daddy's rifle in my hand felt reassuring. He told me 'Red means run, son. Numbers add up to nothin' .'" 
Neil Young 

It ain't about all that playin '. Submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

View oint
page 10 Thursday, February 4, 1993 
1993 Notre Dame Student Body Elections 
Flynn/Wellmann 


Dear Notre Dame Students: 
Our record of involvement in improving student life in both our dorms and campus wide demonstrates that we have the commitment and experience necessary to make immediate, concrete contributions to the Notre Dame community. Our platform addresses various aspects of student life which will allow Student Government to effectively serve the interests of the Student Body. 
We are unique in that we have taken the time to come up with original ideas which we have followed up on and determined to be fully achievable. 
However, we also know that we are expected to continue successful Student Government projects and initiatives, as well as to remain a force impacting the direction the University takes on critical issues such as financial aid, multiculturalism and campus social life. We hope to have as much influence as possible on these perennial issues; nonetheless, we believe that it is also our responsibility to develop new ideas which will make significant contributions to the quality of student life, here at Notre Dame. 
Our proposed Course 
Karian/Thomas 
Evaluation Guide, a comprehensive student-orga­nized guide to courses and professors reflects our commitment to improving undergraduate education. 
Our Job Bank program will enable Student Government to assist students in obtaining summer and post-graduation opportunities. Our plan for a campus-wide Book Fair will provide an affordable alterna­tive to the Bookstore, thus ad­dressing our concern of rising costs in the University. 
Finally, we will sponsor the construction of an on-campus storage facility, which will be available for students all year 

Dear Notre Dame Students: 
Our candidacy is unique be­cause neither Joe Karian nor Sam Thomas has ever served in any student government organization on campus. 
Although this lack of experience may cause skeptics to claim we are unqualified, we believe our perspective as regular students gives us a candid understanding of your con­cerns and difficulties. We have become too familiar and accustomed to the frustrations students endure when their representatives become apprehensive and 
tentative about eliminating inconveniences and complications. 
While all candidates have emphasized empowering the student voice in government, these promises are nothing more than propaganda unless they are supported by a serious itinerary of programs. 
As candidates, we've worked hard to put forth a platform of reasonable and realistic ideas that would have a significant role in overcoming some of the University's shortcomings. 
Our ability to identify and respond to student needs is 
Connelly/Kovats 


Dear Notre Dame Students: 
The goals that we presented to the Observer lead to one encompassing idea: the University exists in order to serve and foster growth among the students; the students are not here to be molded into some university ideal. Restrictions imposed by the Administration deny us the privileges and basic rights of adulthood with respect to supported by specific objectives to reform DART, create a teacher evaluation student supplement, and improve student influence with an official visit to each dorm. 
We believe this is quite a contrast to some of our opponents who have taken on the primary characteristic of non-alcoholic beer-no substance. Although we want to be active in promoting the interests of students. we will not assault your dignity with thoughtless, vague and unrealistic promises. 
We hope that when you 

practicality of each Joseph Karlan candidate's proposals you will Sam Thomas 
decision making. We are common students, who have participated in many Notre Dame activities. 
Throughout our experience, we have realized that the University tends to ignore the students. We believe that our ticket represents a student body that the University will hear, and this time, the University will listen. 
The Administration displays a stringent attitude toward creativity evinced by an attack on our campaign, labelling our posters as unprofessional and too creative. This attitude illustrates the reaction of the University to students who stray away from the norm. It stifles individuality and subordinates the common student to the powers above. 

We initially presented ourselves as co-presidents in an attempt to establish 
l

Viewpoint
Thursday, February 4, 1993 page 11 ~ 
I

1993 Notre Dame Student Body Elections Rienke/Dickey 


Dear Notre Dame Students: vision that is a combination of for too much, but we believe 
First and foremost, we idealism with realism, student government has a re­bring our values to student activism with professionalism, sponsibility to deal with real government. Value-based or, perhaps, Smith-Goodwin problems. The things we be­leadership will always come with Butrus-O'Neill. This lieve in are much more than before political agendas or the balance is crucial. rhetoric. The platform we short-term rewards these Although we have the present contains a set of offices might hold. necessary experience for the deeply held beliefs that Lara 
If you look at our vision for position of student body and I will lead with. And the coming year, you will see president and vice-president, perhaps, even more that it isn't full of incredible what is more important, we important, these beliefs are innovation, quick fixes, or pie­think, is the reason you serve. not rooted in the limitations in-the-sky. However, we will We are running because we we as students have to affect approach many of the look around this great change. Their roots are in the problems that continually University and see areas possibilities. plague Notre Dame students where we can make a differ­David Reinke from a completely new angle. ence-a truly positive change. Lara Dickey We have attempted to strike a Some may argue we hope 
Galla/Browning 


Dear Notre Dame Students: refining the internship pro­entire basement of La Fortune 
We are committed to putting gram, networking with our as a first step in improving the Notre Dame to work by alumni through phone banks quality of 24 hour social space. operating under the belief that and direct mailings, and devel­Putting your money to work the University must strive to oping an alumni mentor pro­is our third area of concern. meet your needs and gram. This comprehensive ap­We plan to trim the waste out expectations about life in this proach to careers has been of the budget in order to community. By approaching discussed with the leaders of increase club funding by 20%. issues with awhy not attitude Career Placement and Alumni We would not raise these coupled with experience and Association who have issues or offer solutions commitment, we will put Notre expressed strong interest in without being committed to Dame to work. We have these ideas. bringing them about. Just as targeted three specific areas Our next task is putting the we have reviewed these issues which will impact your quality campus to work. Areas of with the Administration to of life. concern include combating confirm their viability, we will exactly as who we are at theOur primary goal is puttting text book cost with Lease A seek input from students to 
time of this writing, two Stephanie A. Gallo 
your education to work by Book program and opening the insure that all positions are individuals who are motivated Chris Browning 
Murphy/Bioss 


Dear Notre Dame Students: and the issues before you, Tomorrow looks friendly. Oh! The places we'll go You know you're too smart If you vote for us twice, Congratulations! for those who will bore you. You'll win a date with Emily. It will soon be the day. You'll be off to go vote now. You want to see things You might be confused when And we see things your way. happen. analyzing this race. 
If you vote for us, they will. Reading over those platforms You have brains in your We support all the students at an incredible pace. 
heads, With all our political skill. Stop at this one and read And with that you can't lose. closely this space. And need to steer yourself And when things start to Murph and Emily are off to a to the candidate you choose. happen wonderful place. 
Don't you worry or mourn. You'll look at the signs. Look So, just stop and vote To finish this poem, we'll use them over with care. For Murph and the Black the word "Orange," About the most you can say , Thorn. Try to find something that "Gosh! They've got nice hair." rhymes with that. OH! The Places we'll go! Christopher Murphy With your heads full of brains You'll be on your way up. Emily Bloss 

! 
Accent 
page 12 

International AFFAIR 
ISO presents its 
International Festival 
this Saturday at 
Washington Hall 
By BECKY BARNES Accent Writer 

Have you ever seen the tinikling performed? Or a blindfolded machete dance? Or the hula auwana'? 
These are just a few of the 22 acts in Saturday's International Festival, which includes over 150 performers and represents at least 40 nationalities, accord­ing to Jeremy Liau, president of the International Students Union (ISO). 
Now in its 1Oth year, the performance is a "showcase of foreign talent here on campus," said Liau. 
ISO organizes the annual event to show that "there are many diverse cultures here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and they're pretty talented people," he added. 
This year's performance is 
dedicated to world peace, said Cristina Galatas. "Now that ev­eryone is at war, we want to show all the world together," she said. 
The show includes acts by the Hawaii Club, India Association, 
Thursday, February 4, 1993 


Photo courtesy ISO Like last year (above), the 1993 Festival includes a fashion show representing about 15 nationalities. 
are pounded and dancers move around them in a manner simi­lar to jumping rope, said Liau. 
The Balet Folklorico Azul yOro will perform a machete dance, which 
A f r i c a n1-------------involves tossing S t u d e n t s 'N · knives back and 
Association, OW that everyone IS forth while blind-p h i I i P P i n eat war We want to folded. 
Club, Balet ' The Hawaii Folklorico Azul ShOW all the WOrld Club will perform Y Oro, h , a hula, a 
American Le-toget er. traditional dance banese Club, which tells a story Seam a is in, . . through hand Troop ND. a -Cnstma GalataSgestures, said 
fashion show Diane Wong, representing president of the about 15 nationalities and many 
club. 
others, said Liau. 

"Tradition has it that the god­Some of the highlights of the desses performed the first hu­
festival include the tinikling , 
las, and in later years the dance 
performed by the Philippine 
continued in order to honor the 
Club, in which bamboo poles 
gods and goddesses," said 
Wong. 

The Hawaii club will perform two dances, "Hawaii Songs," which is sung in English and describes the beauty of Hawaii, and the the Kanaka Wai Wai, a more contemporary dance which describes the life of Je­sus, she said. 
Nine dancers and four musi­cians, including guitar and ukelele players, will take part in the hula, added Wong. 
The fashion show includes 25 people in traditional costumes from many countries, including Nigeria, Spain, Lithuania and Pakistan, said Galatas. 
Galatas will also take part in a traditional Spanish dance, the Sevillanas, which is danced by two couples and resembles the flamenco. 
Liau stressed that most of the performers are not profes-
Earning respect 
Ott the Streets, aChicago-based theater group which -enables homeless actors to obtain housing, comes to ND 
·­
,I 
, ,I ~ 
~ 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Accent Writer 

You sit shivering from the cold Chicago wind. The cardboard box that was your bed last night has fallen apart from the wind and freezing rain. As you make your way to the shel­ter for something to eat people pass by briskly, pretending that they do not see you. 
Once inside the shelter. something catches your eye. It's a poster asking for actors to perform in a play. Each participant will receive a salary that must go toward the first month's rent on an apartment. 
Your eyes light up with hope, this may be the way to get offofthe streets. 
Although it may sound fictitious or optimistic, this program is real. And it's coming to Notre Dame on Friday. 
Off the Streets is a theater group created in Chicago by Brad Hauter, and focuses on helping people get off the streets and back on their feet again. 
"He (Hauter) owns a soccer store in Chicago, and when he would go to work every day, he would see homeless people," said Rich Dyer, a Notre Dame MBA student and a coordinator in bringing the group to cam­pus. "He said that he had to do something about it, but he didn't want to just give money." 
Instead, Hauter formed the theater group in 1989, which gave people a chance to earn money by working for it. 
"Brad's theory is that the homeless don't want a handout," said Dyer. "They want to earn it and possibly hear for the first time in their lives that they are worth something." 
"Fools," a comedy by Larry Shue, is this year's play, and the plot goes back 200 years ago to a small town where a young man fell in love with a young woman, and asked her to marry him. 
She declines his offer because he is uneducated, and being so distraught, he commits suicide. The young man's father becomes very upset and puts a curse on the town. The curse is that everyone born there or who stays there longer than a day will become an idiot, and stay that way forever. There are only two ways to break the curse, and from there the play twists and turns into a wild cometic frenzy. 
"OfT the Streets travels to churches, small theaters, and universities," saidCraig Hartman, a Notre Dame MBA student and friend of Hauter. "It usually consists of seven to nine actors, some of whom have part time jobs, but they just can't earn enough to pay the rent." 
"The money that the group makes is put into a bank account and given to the actors at the end of the tour," said Dyer. "They get credits for going to practice or helping with set design, and at the end the credits are turned into money." 
The sum total at the end is usually approximately $3,500 per person, and must be used for apartment rent. 

"The program has an 85 percent success rate," said Dyer, "and many of the people come back to give moral support. The people (in the play) get pleasure from making the audience happy. It also gives them self respect and allows them to get out of the cycle of homelessness. It makes you realize that the homeless people are like you and me, but they just had a hard break." 
"Fool" will be performed Friday, February 5 at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The show will last approximately an hour and a half, and tickets will be $2. OfT the Streets is not government funded, and therefore will be accepting donations which it relies on in order to keep in op­eration. 
After the show, there will be a question and answer period with the cast members. "We hope people can learn something about the homeless," said Dyer. 
sionals and put together their acts specifically for the show. "It's a good time for both the audience and the performers," he added. 
The show has gained popu­larity over the years, and this year's performance is the largest yet, said Liau. "People want to see their country rep­resented," he added. 
The ISO is the largest student organization on campus with about 800 members, he con­tinued. 
The performance has sold out in recent years, so Liau rec­ommends that students buy their tickets early. They are available from the LaFortune Information desk and cost $3 for students and $5 for non­students. 
The performance starts at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
I 
... 
I 
I 


Thursday, February 4, 1993  The Observer  
Forsyth faces Joffe in Rolex tourney  
Observer Staff Report  Invitations were based on Regional winners, last year's  
Notre  Dame  senior  Will  top ranked players, winners of  
Forsyth will open play in the 1993 Rolex National Indoor  the first two Collegiate Grand Slam events and at-large and  
Championship today against Howard Joffe of Pepperdine University at 2 p.m. in Min­neapolis. Forsyth, currently ranked 19th in the ITA National Rank­ wild-card selections. The winner of that first round match advance to the second round on Friday at 8 p.m. and take on the winner of the match between 6th-ranked Mike Sell  
ings, is 15-4 on the year and qualified for the tournament by winning the Rolex Midwest Re­gional singles title last fall. Forsyth has been the number­one singles player for the Irish all year, and last time out he fell to 11th-ranked Roland Thornquist of North Carolina 6­ Will Forsyth 3, 6-1 in a dual meet on Saturday. The tournament is the premiere of the winter colle­giate season, and will consist of 32 singles players and 16 dou­bles teams.  of Georgia and 47th-ranked Mike Castrilli of Idaho State. In other Irish tennis news, James Paul "J.P." Weber has been named the assistant men's tennis coach, replacing Brian Kalbas, who became the women's coach at William & Mary.  
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
NOTICES  BABYSITTER WANTED, MUST  TICKETS  Meep, meep.  2. And you are naked because... 3. Jagerrneister shots & Starburst chasers.  and KNOW what is says!! PW Charity Carnation Sale at tine  
SPEAK SOME JAPANESE.  Help! I need NO/Ken. tix. call Emily  need 1 duke stu sean xt 067  4. The Ford Tempo without a  Dining Halls  
TYPING 287-4082  PREFER IF HAVE OWN AUTO.  x5245  defroster, headlight nor tape deck.  
CALL MICHIKO  I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS  5. Slug-naked.  Red= I love you  
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's  289-1108 AFTER 7 PM.  FOR THE MARQUETTE GAMEl!!!!!  6. Do you have a picture of the  Pink=! like you  
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­ I  Please call Chris or Mike x1117  Gore daughters?  While= I want to know you  
2342 NO Ave & Howard  Student Painters is interested in  NEED  7. Check baby, check baby, 1,2,3.  better  
hiring highly motivated students to  2 KENTUCKY GA'S  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  8. Gary.  Yellow=Friendship  
manage their own bus. we offer  CALL JEANNE X2645  9. Walking in Memphis.  Green=????  
50,000,000  management training, credit  NEED DUKE TIX  10. Colleen, why are you eating  
backing, and a full support staff  CALL 289-5563  turns off the floor?  Friday dinner  
earning pot. $8,000. join the most  11. Gee! The tiny man.  Monday lunch and dinner  
SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT  successful painting co. in Indiana  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  12. I'm as serious as cancer when I  Tuesday lunch  
SALE!  call 1-800-543-3792 ask tor Tom  say Rhythm is the Dancer.  
Lowest prices, best trips -100%  Smith.  I desperately need 3 DUKE tixll  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Thanks skirty Gerty, madame Ia  $!/carnation & we deliver to  
guaranteed! Cancun, Jamaica, &  Please help!! Julie X-2993  Roache (Rachel), Karen  ND/SMC\11  
Florida packages still available from  I need a ride to the  NEED DUKE TIX  (Carmen) & Pane (Tutti) for one  
America's student travel leader.  PITTSBURGH AREA  CALL 289-5563  road trip I'll never forget. You guys  Great for Valentines day and  
Travel free -organize a small  for spring break. If you are going to  We need MANY, MANY  are the best!  cheaper than any florist around...  
group. Call STS @ (800) 648-4849.  or through this area, please call  Duke nx. both GAs and  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Love Happy (Nice Lady)  
LUANN at X4792.  STUD.  xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo  
ROCK DRUMMER NEEDED ASAP  I will share gas and tolls.  Please help us by calling  HELP WANTED.  
FOR NO BAND W/ ALREADY SET  289-5563.  RAs in Lewis Hall. Must be  FISHER MEN:  
GIGS. CALL JOE X3695  Joel, get off the babysitter.  professed man-hater and own a  What happened to your "F"I  
ILOST & FOUND I  Do you need a ride to Miami of Oh this weekend? call todd 1195  I need 1 duke stud. call x3000.  I say this to you because it'll be Risky Business if you don't sell Skip tix for the Kentucky  precisely functioning atomic clock. No need for fast runners, because (GET THIS I) most men don't think  Pay Attention: You better watch your back, not because of your roommates this  
Does ANYONE have Duke student  WildCATASTROPHE on Feb. 13.  leaving two minutes late for  time, but because...  
Found:  tix or GA's??? Call Kelly @ 2384  It's in your best interest (broken  parietals is a crime and will be  WERE BACK....and badder than  
Between Cavanaugh and Zahm this  FOR RENT  Need Kentucky nx  arms) to call Skip at x2052 and make a deal or leave a  easily caught if spotted.  ever.  
weekend. a gold bracelet. Call 634­ 2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud.  message.  U of I TOP 1 0 dedicated to JQ, Red,  
1530 to describe. Ask for Steve.  @#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  Call Ryan X3596  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  Ryan, Jeff, and Billy...  
LOST: One girls "Kubisaki H.S."  ARE YOU INTERESTED IN  PERSONAL  make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  10. Gentleman, start your tappers. 9. Red on the head, fire in the hole.  
class ring with mens neck chain.  Help! I need 2 or 3 MARQUETTE  city; summers by the beach: your  8. Jeff, I think there's still cake on  
Lost during the snowball fight most  SUBLETTING FOR THE  GAs  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  my lace.  
likely in South Quad. Huge  -Jill x2446  AVOID THE RUSH II!!  fireplace in winter, and by ocean  7. Miss Potato Pants.  
sentimental value! REWARD.  SUMMER AT CASTLE  Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day  waves in summer. Art, music, the  6. It was so easy, I got him 13 times  
Please call Ryan @ X1691.  I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS  message, but don't wait until the  best education, endless love. Call  in one night!  
POINT IN A 2-BEOROOM  MARY  X2862  last minute to type it in!! Classifieds  Franny or Stephen collect.  5. Is Red now on the spin cycle?  
Lost-•• KITE.., still in package,  can be placed anytime between  (212)369-2597.  4. Drinkin' upside down margueritas  
Sat. night between 02 and Walsh.  APARTMENT??  Needed:  now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The  with my I'd up friends @ O'Malley's.  
Great personal value!  x1951  One Kentucky Ticket  Observer office (3rd floor  S. Sat 7:30 am: The tide is a little  
for more info  Call Sue X2494  LaFortune).  **•AWESOME SPRING BREAKS!  too high for Di.  
Call Angela or Laurie 4-2729  BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10  2. Haieskal  
MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH  ned for 1 : Was someone sleeping  
@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$@#$  I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for  KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249,  above me?  
LOST DURING FINALS....  Kentucky -Brian xt 069  SMC & NO Summer Programs­ DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149,  Ch-chingl My dart stuck!  
BLACK JVC HI-FI HEADPHONES.  3-5 person furnished house, Sec.  London & Rome-Meeting Feb.  CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459,  Thanks guys! Only the Good Die  
PLEASE  System, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR  15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student,  JAMAICA $47911-800-678-6386.  Young and We're Still Alive!  
RETURN.  PRIME location, 233-9947.  KENTUCKY  GAME!  faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call  Love, Diane and parcee.  
CALL4-1748  CALL MEG -X3884  Prof. A.R. Black 284-4460(office).  COUNSELORS: CAMP EMERSON,  
272-3726(home).  coed, Massachusetts. Swimming,  Top 24 from Mock Trial Trip to  
3 BEDROOM HOUSE  tennis, land/water sports, arts/crafts,  Toledo:  
LOST-gold bracelet w/heart  $490 MONTH + $300 DEP.  archery, theatre, woodworking,  24. Froggei.  
shaped links on 01/27. If  SECURITY SYSTEM  DESPERATELY NEED  TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE  rocketry, computer, yearbook,  23. Where's the elevator, Amy?  
found please call Annette  232-3616  1 Duke Tik Stu or GA  TRIP TO CHICAGO:  photography, administrative, morel  22. AI and Cancun  
at x2644.  Call Leigh x2912  10. I don't wanna go back..:do we  Super kids, great food, friendly, fun!  21. Kay's swimming lesson  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  have to?...l don't wanna go back.  No general counselors. (800) 955­ 20. We're lost, again  
219-291-7153.  9. Let's take a picture!  CAMP.  19. Is our hotel in Michigan?  
LOST: One gold hoop earring bit  DESPERATELY SEEKING 1,  8. What's your favorite kind of  18. I'm gonna urinate on Mike &  
SMC and NO alter Keenan Revue.  FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT  2, or 3 NO vs. DUKE GA tickets.  grass?  Bob.  
If found please call Amy @ X3878. NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR WANTED I;;=27~73-09_7___--~-. SUMMER JOBS!! Camp Birchwood I FOR SALE  PLEASE HELPIIIIIII!I! Call ALISA @3196. Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. Will pay $$$. Call (708)835-2208  7. What's the theme song for the Partridge Family? 6. Let's go to the Aquarium\ 5. How about that building? I'm sure you could get a good view of the parking lot from the top .. and I bet  Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on Luxury Yachts Seven day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 1/800-999-SAIL(7245)  17. Gravy 16. What the ...is that noise? 15. So Matt, when's that private showing? 14. Guys, I think I smell alcohol! 13. Could you please tell me what  
& Gunflint Wilderness Camp, 2 of  .  Desperately seeking basketball  they don't even charge you\  room Carrie's supposed to be in?  
Minnesota's finest summer youth  tickets for the NO vs. Duke  4. C'mon you guys\ You're boring\  I need a ride to Indianapolis this  12. Carrie, was that bathtub  
camps, seek college students to  Style on a student budget. '85 Audi  basketball game. Please call Kerri  Let's do something fun!  weekend , will pay for gas.  comfortable?  
work as counselors and instructors.  $3600 or best offer. 271-0523.  at x2764.  3. Now, should we go to F.A.O.  Call Katie x2724 Thanks.  11. All right, so I'm a slut  
Employment June 8th to Aug. 13th.  Leave message.  Schwartz, Niketown, and then  10. He doesn't have any pants on!  
On campus Mon. Feb. 8th,  I NEED DUKE TICKETS!  dinner, or skip dinner even though  9. No smoking -NOTI  
Madeleva Hall. SMC. For an  CONGA DRUM W/ STAND  CALL DAVE X1045  everyone's hungry, or go to dinner,  Headin' to McD's, BK, PJ's?  8. We saw the boxers -2 for 1. Go  
application contact the Counseling & Career Development Center,  $60 CALL 271-1938  ·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&••  Niketown, and then F.A.O. Schwartz or..?  Not! Try a cheaper study break at  Matt & Pete! 7. We have to wipe her.  
LeMans Hall.  FENDER GUITAR  2. How much corn could a  SUBWAY  6. boone's & Schnapps  
brand new '92 custom built from '59  I need 2 tickets for the NO-Kentucky  cornhusker husk if a corn husker  5. Let's just wing it  I  
body orignally 700$ asking 300$ or  Basketball game.  could husk corn, Dan?  6" meatball-only $1.69  4. Casual commitments  I  
Adoption-Active. Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call  best offer desperate for cash call Wheels x1646  Please call Cameron at 634­1723 ......  1. Look Kathy\ It's the American Inn! I need a picture of it! Don't you remember the American  6" cold cut combo-only $1.49 plus daily footlong specials!!!  3. Friendship wlbenefits 2. l's so screwed. and #1 is.....me!  I I  
Peggy 1-800-682-8628.  Miss Saigon Ticket For Sale  Inn?. .Whatever floats your boat  
(lor S.U.B. trip) Sunday, 2n  &*&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&*&  Tanya! Thanks Cancer, Clap, Nicole,  SR 23 & IRONWOOD 277-7744  MAKE ACONTRIBUTION TO  j  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  Call Heather X4929  NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY 800-777-0675 EXT 275  Karen, Lauren, Brian and Dan tor an unforgettable tirne! and Dan, next time..we will find you a  NDE #25 Silver Anniversary II Let's go Team!  LIFE AFTER DEATH  l  
$600+/week in canneries or $4000+/month on fishing boats.  SEPARATE STEREO COMPONENTS: AMP., TUNER,  postcard store,okay? At the Aquarium.  American  I I  
Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call 1-206­545-4155 ext. A5584  TAPE DECK AND EQUILIZER(good condition) $150.00 CALL271 1443  For two Duke tickets, I will sing a song for you. Kerri the Hummer x2764  TOP 12 QUOTES FROM OUR OBNOXIOUS ROAD TRIP TO GEORGETOWN: 1. And you are...  xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo Roses are cliched... Violets are chez... Buy a PW carnation...  Heart Association 1-800-242-8721  ~ l I I  

~ ~ 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, February 4, 1993 
=·····. =·····. =·····= r····: :······ :·····: =·····= =··..·: :·····= :·····: ttJI\ () ,
"~ . . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . -~ ~,...
c:::> .;~ "~ A ..~* , ..... . . ....... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . iii C11111bt... ~~il c:;, 
6 ~ ·,,.: ~ w ~~,¥+_./ • :: • : :: ••• : : :: :: :: ••• : : '-~· ,... Ul ~
0 ,;# ••••• ••••• ••••• • • ••••••• ...... ••••• • • • • •••••• """" 
NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS NCAA POLLS 
WALES CONFERENCE How the top 25 teams In The Aeaoclated Pr888 Patrick Dlvlalon college basketban pon fared Wednesday: EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Dlvlalon 
1. Indiana (111-2) did not play. Next: at No. 9

W L Pel G8 L10 Streak Horne Away Conf w L T Pta GF GA Horne Away Dlv 
Iowa, Saturday.
Pittsburgh 14

New York 2 8 t 5 .834 7·3 Won 1 t8-4 8·11 111·9 3 4 5 73 226 t76 20·4·3 t4-t0·2 15·5·2 
2. Kentucky (18-t) beat Ml11isalppl Stale 87-83. New Jersey 25 20 .558 3 5·5 Loat t t3·6 12-t2 t5·12 Washington 2 5 22 8 58 207 193 12·7·5 t3-t5·1 9·11·2 Next: vs. No. t1 Vanderbltt, Saturday. 
NY Rangers 23 9

Orlando 20 t9 .5t3 5 6·4 Won2 12·10 8·11 13·14 21 55 212 204 15·7·4 8·14·5 11-tt-3 3. Kansas (tB-2) did not play. Next: at Nebraska. Boston 22 2t .5t2 5 6·4 Loat 1 12·7 10-14 16-14 t2-10·1
NY Islanders 2 4 2 3 8 54 2t9 194 t2-11·2 12-t2-4 Sunday. Philadelphia 1 7 2 5 .405 9 112 5·5 Loat 2 9-t3 8-t2 14·19 New Jersey 24 23 4 52 t77 t77 t4-t0-t t0-13·3 9·12·1 4. Clnctnnllll (17·1) beat Austin Peay 98-61. Philadelphia 2 6 Next: at Memphll State, Saturday.
Miami t4 27 .341 12 4-6 Won2 tO-tO 4·17 9·18 t 8 8 44 200 218 t3-t0·3 5·t6-5 7-12·3 5. Duke (18-3) beat No.8 North Carolina 8t-67. 
Adame Dlvlalon

Waahlngton 1 2 3 0 .288 t4 tl2 2·8 Loat 3 9·t2 3·18 8-23 Next: at Notre Dame, Saturday.
Montreal 5 21·7·2
Central Dlvlalon 33 18 71 23t t87 12-tt-3 t4-7-0 
e. North Carolina (17·3) lost to No.5 Duke 8t· Chicago 211 t 6 .8511 5·5 Wont t5-6 t4·9 20·11 Quebec 29 t7 6 88 222 194 t5-10·2 t4·7·8 13·7·3 67. Next: vs. North Carolina State, Saturday. Cleveland 2 7 t 8 .800 3 7·3 Won2 19·5 8·13 16-10 84 219 t92 18·7·2 t2-t3·2 t2-8·1 7. Michigan (17·3) did not play. Next: vs. No. t9
Boston 30 20 4 

Buffalo 27 20 6 80 230 t87 20·5·2 7-t5·4 Purdue, Sunday. 
Charlo11a 2 2 2 0 .524 8 5·5 Won3 tO-tO 12-tO 13·13 14·8·3 8. Arizona (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. Stanford,
A11anta 22 22 .600 7 6·4 Lost t 12-tt tO-tt 15·111 Hartford 14 36 4 32 t70 247 8-15·4 6·20·0 8-tS-2 ouawa s 4 126 
Thursday.

Indiana 22 22 .500 7 6·4 Lost 1 t3-9 9-t3 15-t7 46 16 263 8·20·4 0-26·0 2·19-t 9. Iowa (t4-3) did not play. Next: at Illinois,
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 

Detroit til 2 3 .452 II 3·7 Loat t t3-7 8·t8 15·12 Thursday.
Norrla Dlvlalon

Milwaukee 18 26 .4111 10 tl2 4·6 Loat t 11·t2 7·13 12-13 10. UNLV (13-1) did not play. Next: at U. of the 
WESTERN CONFERENCE W L T Pta GF GA Horne Away Dlv Pacific, Thursday. Chicago 31 16 8 70 t95 154
Mldweal Dlvlalon t7·6·4 t4-12·4 t5·6·2 11. Vanderblh (17-3) beat South Carolina 78-72. w L Pel G8 L10 Streak Horne Away Conf Detroit 29 20 6 64 232 183 17-t1·2 t2·9·4 11-t0-3 Next: at No. 2 Kentud<y, Saturday. Minnesota 2 7 18 8 62 186 172 12. Flotlda State (t5-8) did not play. Next: at
San Antonio 2 7 14 .6511 9·1 Won2 17·4 t0-10 17·10 13·8·6 14-t0-2 11·7·3 Ccnnectlcut, Saturday. 
Toronto 24 21 8 56 173 183 t3. Wake Foreat (13-3) did not play. Next: at 
Utah 27 t5 .643 112 5·5 Loat 1 18-6 11·11 15-10 t4·1 0·4 t0·1t-4 11·t0·5 
St. Louis 22 23 8 52 t81 183
Houaton 28 t8 .511t 2 tl2 6·2 Won4 t6·6 10-12 t5-1t t4-9·5 8-14-3 8-t2·5 North Carolina State, Thursday. 
Tampa Bay 18 33 3 39 172 207 9·15-t 9-t8·2
Denver t5 28 .388 12 7-3 Won2 13-7 2-t9 9-111 8·15·2 t4. Seton Hall (18-5) did not play. Next: at
Smythe Dlvlalon

Mlnneaota 9 30 .23t t7 3·7 Won2 5-t6 4-14 5·19 Boston Ccllege, Saturday. Dallas 3 38 .073 24 t-9 Lost 8 3-20 O·t8 1·27 t9·4·4 t0-1t-4 17·5·2 t5. Phtsburgh (t3-4) lost to Villanova 82-76.
Vancouver 29 15 8 66 232 164 Pacific Dlvlalon Calgary 2 9 19 6 64 206 183 t4-10·2 t5·9·4 14·5·3 Next: vs. St. John's, Saturday. Winnipeg 25 22 6 56 t 99 200 18. Oklahoma (t4-6) lost to Kansas Stale 82-Bt. 
Phoenix 3t 9 .775 7·3 Lost 1 t5-t t6-8 20·6 t6·6·2 9-t6-4 11·6·3 Portland 28 .883 112 Lost 2 10·6 LosAngeles 24 23 6 54 209 217 14-t0-3 t0·t2·2 
Next: at Oklahoma State, Saturday.

t3 3 7·3 t8·5 18·10 t0-t3·3 
17. Arkansas (t4-4) did not play. Next: a1 Florida,Edmonton 1 9 28 8 48 152 209


Seattle 28 14 .887 4 5·5 Lost 2 19·2 9-12 2t·S 12-t0-5 7·18·3 7·t6·1 
Saturday.LA Clippers 23 20 .535 II tl2 6·4 Wont t4-7 9·t3 13-t3 4·t7-t
San Jose 6 45 2 14 t45 258 4·2t·1 2·24-t t8. Tulane (t5-3) did not play. Next: at Virginia
Tuesday's Game~ ,

LA Lakers 22 21 .512 tO 112 4·6 Lost 1 tO-tO 12-t1 14-13 Tech, Thursday.Edmonton 4, ·Boston 3
Golden State 20 24 .465 13 2·8 Lost 3 t0-9 t0-15 14·11 t9. Purdue ( t3-4) beat Ohio State 82-57. Next: Sacramento tS 26 . 381 18 . 3·7 Lost 2 11·t 0 5·16 11·t4 
Quebec 3, Los Angeles 2 at No. 7 Michigan, Sunday. Calgary 6, Washington 4 20. Marquette (16·2) did not play. Next: at
Tuesday's Gamea Wednesday's Games 
DePaul, Saturday. 

New York t 06, Waahlngton t 00 21. Utah (t5-3) did not play. Next: va. Wyoming,
Late Games Not Included

Atlanta 118, Seattle 109 
Thursday. Cleveland t 00, Golden Stale 90 
Boston 4, Quebec 1 

22. Georgia Tech (tt-5) did not play. Next: vs. Houston 115, Indiana t04 Clemson, Thursday.
Buffalo 3, Hartford 2 
Ottawa 3, Edmonton 2
San Antonio 1tt, New Jer118y 93 23. Georgetown (t2-5) did not play. Next: vs. 
Montreal 7, Los Angeles 2 Providenoa, Saturday. 
LA Clippers 112, Phoenix t 08 
New York Islanders 3, Toronto 2 24. Virginia (t2·4) did not play. Next: at Maryland, Thursday. 
Orlando 110, LA Lakero 97 Philadelphia 2, New York Rangers 2, tieMlni'Miaota 104, Portland 9t 25. Michigan State (t1-6) did not play. Next: vs.
Calgary 5, New Jersey 4Wednesday'• Gamea 
Minnesota. Saturday. Late Games Not Included 
Detroit 5, Chicago 0 

Charlotte t29, Philadelphia 118 St. Louis at Winnipeg, (n) 
TRANSACTIONS

Minnesota at San Jose, (n)Miami t18, Atlanta 98 
Tampa Bay at Vancouver, (n) BASEBALLCleveland t08, Milwaukee tOO 
Thursday's Games EXECUTIVE COUNCIL-Suspended MargeHouston 119, Dallas t 02 
No games scheduled Schott, Clnclnnat Reds' owner, lor one year,Denver at Utah, (n) 
Friday's Games effective March t, and lined her $25,000 lorMinnesota at Phoenix, (n) 
No games scheduled ualng language deemed racially and elhnl· Saturday's Game cally offensive.
Chicago at Sacramento, (n) 
Thursday's Games Golden State at New York. 7:30 p.m. 
All-Star Game at Montreal, 3 p.m. American League 
Sunday's Games KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to Ierma No games scheduled with Jose Lind, second baseman, on a one­Seanle at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. 
Indiana at San Amonlo, 8:30 p.m. 
Monday's Games year contract.
Chicago at LA Cllppero, t0:30 p.m. Utah at LA L..akers, t 0:30 p.m. Boston vs. Phtsburgh at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to Ierma with Buffalo at Ottawa, 7:40 p.m. Mike Maksudlan, catcher; Jeff Reboulet, New York Rangers at New Jersey, 7:40 p.m. Infielder; and George Tsamls, pitcher, on one-year contracts. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the 
1993-94 General Board 
NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The news Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas adversitising manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsbile for the content of the news section each day. and is responsible for generating advertsing revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge ofApplicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The ad design manager with the public. The viewpoint editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors oversees a staff of designers, works closely with the advertising department and and columnists, and decides what letters will run each day. 
is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SPORTS EDITOR 

PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The sports Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of 
editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, genereates story ideas and special 
QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The sections, arranges travel accomodations for reporting trips and is responsible for 
production manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works the content of the sports section each day. 
closely with department staff on layout and design. 
ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, oversees of computer networking. The systems manager maintains and updates the the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the accent pages each day. Macintosh network and printers and is resposible for training the entire 
Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR OBSERVER TYPESETTING DIRECTOR 
Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The photo 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience, especially with editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians, and must work QuarkXPress, Aldus Pagemaker and Aldus PrePrint. The OTS directorclosely with department editors is assigning photographs. 
I 
manages all aspects of the typesetting business, including client relations and 
new business development. 
I 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged 
CONTROLLER
t 
to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's The controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and 
I' 
campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
~ 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply Please submit 
t
, 
a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, Feb. 12, 1993 at 5 p.m. For questions about 
the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
l ~ t 
• 

Thursday, February 4,1993 The Observer page 15 
Alumni, Grace 
By TEDS PETERSON Sports Writer 
Sophomore Bill Cooney netted 
four goals and senior Matt 
Cronin scored twice as Alumni 
defeated Sorin 8-4 last week to 
take the lead in the League Two 
playoff hunt. The victory left 
Alumni (2-0-1) as the only un· 
defeated team in League Two. 
Alumni owned the first half. 
taking a 4-0 lead into the in· 
termission. Sorin (2·1} bounced 
back after the break, eventually 
cutting the deficit to 5-4. 
Helped by Ben Cain's strong 
play in goal down the stretch, 
Alumni iced the game with 
three late goals. 
The next night, however, 
•rullluu• suffered a setback, tying Fisher (1-1-1} 3-3. The two teams were never separated by more than a goal in this hack­and-forth struggle, with Cronin scoring late to save the tie for 

the tie. "There was no letdown; we 
were passing and skating just as well as the night before [against Sorin]. We. Just couldn't convert," noted Fis _ 
Elsewhe:t'~J ln Leagu'!} Zabm {2-1) withstood someJa.t penalties to hold off Fisher 3·1. With the win, Zahm moved_ into a second-place tie with Sotin, one-half game behind AI • 
Zahm senior Chris said that Ws team's game ob· jective had been to shut down Fisher's big scorer, Rob ~~n~. FUlfilling thatgoal and ge · sharp performance from. Joe DeSimone were majof tors in the win. 
St. Ed's {1·2) got in the ­column last week, · vanaugh ~*2/iFnt St tain Mike-Newman trick and Bill Brennan twice. Cavanaugh goals by Pet~ Morrill and captain Ed Cl~Pk clo$ed the lead to 4•2 second halt -hut St. regained the momentum ran away with the game. 
Meanwhile, in League play, Grace CO:Jltinues ad(.{ing to their · record with a 5·2 win Morrissey. A slow start f(}und them tied 1·1 at the half, but senior leadership-in the form 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
the Irish have gotten inspired play from some underclassmen and their continued improve­ment will be a key to Notre Dame's success. 
Freshmen Carey Poor and Stacy Fields have made big contributions off the bench along with sophomore Audrey Gomez. And sophomore Letitia Bowen has been a force inside all season long. 

With all that youth comes some inconsistency and that has plagued the Irish in their recent losing streak. 
"We're a young team and we've been inconsistent at times," McGraw said. "We also have some good leadership in Coquese Washington and Kara Leary, so the consistency will come." 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
A Simple Gift 
Precious Lord, take my hand, Lead me on, let me stand, I am tired, I am weak, I am worn; Thru the storm, thru the night, lead me on to the light, Take my hand precious Lord, Lead me home. When my way grows drear, precious Lord, linger near, When my life is almost gone, Hear my cry, hear my call, Hold my hand lest I fall; Take my hand precious Lord, Lead me home .... (Dorsey,l938) 
These are the words written by the recently late Thomas Dorsey. I recall hearing him sing this song for a T.V. special on the origins of gospel music. Although I have heard this song many times before, I never thought about who wrote it or why. I simply thought of how it made me feel when I heard it sung at some of the church services and funerals I have gone to. 
When I attended church last week, once again I heard this famous song. This 
time, however, I heard it in a way that I have never heard it before. I knew the 
story behind the song this time. One day, while Thomas Dorsey was out 
participating in a gospel music program, his then pregnant wife went into labor. By the time he reached the hospital, both his wife and the baby to be born had died. The song; Precious Lord, was the result of that tragic moment in his life. 
He probably did not think that it would become as popular as it has. 
We all have heard the old saying, "The Lord works in mysterious ways", Im sure. But do we ever really take time to think about the small ways in which wonders happen in addition to the bigger happenings that occur? Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was a person who did a lot of great things to seek civil rights for those who were being oppressed. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, Harriet Tubman, Marcus Garvey, Rosa Parks, Malcolm X were all powerful leaders of their people. But notice each one of these people led others in a different manner, utilizing their own special talents. 
Not much credit is given to the manner of a simple songwriter like Thomas 
Dorsey, whose music ministry can powerfully touch the core of our feelings. Just 
like those more famous leaders, he left something in the world that helps us all. 
Perhaps we never really think about how music, or poetry, or other artistic gifts 
assist us. We know that we enjoy a piece because it touches us somehow. The 
true power of the piece comes when we realize that someone else has experienced and expressed the same feelings that we have had ourselves, and so we know that we are not alone. This sense of common humanity can lift us up and give us hope, even in the toughest of circumstances. 
In his song, Thomas Dorsey reminds us that when we are in despair we can always ask the Lord to act as our guide and lead us. His gift can be as liberating for us the witness of the great civil rights leaders. I am reminded of the teaching of Jesus about the poor widow's contribution. 
"When he looked up he saw some wealthy people putting their offerings into the treasury and he noticed a poor widow putting in two small coins. He said, I tell you truly, this poor widow put in more than all the rest; for those others have all made offerings from their surplus wealth, but she, from her poverty, has offered her whole livelihood." (Luke 21:1~4) 
I believe that what our Lord teaches us here is that no contribution is too small if given in the right spirit. Often we look at the contributions of others, whether it is wealth or personal witness, and think that there is no way that we can measure up. We measure our own success by comparison to that of someone else. Our Lord tells us that whatever we give will be okay. The only stipulation is that we have to truly give from our hearts and not just what we are comfortable giving. Only God can say whether a person has been successful or not. He teaches us that we all have the potential to be like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Marcus Garvey, or Harriet Tubman. On the other hand if we become like the humble songwriter Thomas Dorsey, we will also have succeeded because we will have given of ourselves to others to assist them in some way. I think if our Lord were to give a talk today on the meaning of success, he might say something like this: 
"To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and affection of children; to earn the appreciation of honest critics and to endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty, to find the best in others; to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a golden patch, or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded." (Author Unknown) 
Lena Jefferson 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. February 6  5:00p.m.  Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C.  
Sun. February 7  10:00 a.m.  Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1sT READING  Isaiah 58, 7.-10  
2ND READING  I Corinthians 2, 1..5  
GosPEL  Matthew 5, 13.-16  

~­

page 16 The Observer Thursday, February 4,1993 
----JisfJ---19 Recruiting 93 ---JisfJ---
Holtz gets his wish as Irish sign Powlus and Krug 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
It's oflicial. 

After months of promises and verbal agreements, two of the nation's top prep quarterbacks signed letters of intent yesterday to 
Hon Powlus and Tom Krug both signed with the Irish, giving Notre Dame it's most promising crop of young quar­terbacks since Riek Mirer and Jake Kelchner came to Notre Dame in 1989. Only this pair may be better. 
Powlus was Mr. Everything in high sehool. He was named Parade, SuperPrep, and USA Today player of the year. lie comes from the same school that produced Kelchner, Berwick High School. Powlus led his team to a 15-0 reeord as a senior, and the Pennsylvania state title, passing for 2,933 yards on 162-291 with 31 touchdowns. He also 

ran for 610 yards and 20 touchdowns. 
His recruitment was one of the most publicized in recent history, with Notre Dame, Pitt, Penn State, and Miami all coveting the 6-3 210-pounder. 
He visited Notre Dame in the spring and again with his family only weeks ago. A press conference was scheduled last Saturday to announce his decision, and the event turned into a media circus. But amidst the confusion, Powlus chose Notre Dame, the school he claims was his first choice all along. 
"Choosing Notre Dame came from a whole group of factors," commented~ Powlus in a telephone interview. "The tradition, the mystique, and I just felt very comfortable. I always thought that Notre Dame was the right place for me." 
His decision could not have made Holtz happier. Going into the recruiting season, the Irish coach put top priority on signing two blue chip quarterbacks. In Powlus, he not only filled half his goal, but also got a player comparable to any great quarterback at that stage in their career. 
"I feel as good about (Powlus) as any quarterback I've brought in," said Holtz. "We are expecting Ron to have an excellent career." 
Sitting in the shadows of the Powlus bonanza was Krug. The 6-5 215-pound California native passed for over 1,600 yards and ran for 400 more in his senior season at Los Gatos High. 
Krug decided on the Irish prior to Powlus' commitment, but with full knowledge that the nation's number one recruit could land in South Bend. 
"I feel it didn't matter if he did or didn't go," said Krug. "Wherever I go, I'm going to do my best. 
"Notre Dame is a great place, and I always wanted the opportunity to play big time football. I came here in December and I could feel the magic on campus." 
So Holtz got his wish. 
"We are glad they saw the benefits of coming to Notre Dame," said Holtz. 

One of those benefits being the opportunity to challenge for a starting job as a freshman. With Rick Mirer graduating, Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla are the players who figured to compete for the starting job next season. You can now throw Powlus and Krug into that equation. 
"The chances of them starting depends a lot on when they get here," said Holtz. "You don't like to start a freshman quarterback, but if they can perform." 
And both feel they can perform. 
"I think I can bring to the team some wins, and eventually the ultimate goal, a national championship," said Powlus. 
"I think I have a strong arm, I'm a good passer and can run real well," said Krug. 
If one out-performs the other, it appears that there will be few hard feelings. 
''I'm going to come out and give my best and if he's better than me then he'll get the job, and that will be what's best for Notre Dame. It's our school now, and we need what's best for the team. I'm sure he'd feel the same." 
lie does. 
"Wherever I go it's going to be competitive," Krug said. ''I'm confident in my abilities. Whoever performs will get the job." 
Holtz doesn't rule out the possibility of a freshman starter, but he also remains loyal to McDougal and Failla. 
"We will come out of spring practice with a number one quarterback," said Holtz, "and right now you would have to believe McDougal has a slight edge. 
"The freshmen will get a chance to show what they can do in the fall. But it is very difficult for a freshman to come in and start." 
Holtz 
continued from page 20 

quarterback received Gatorade, Parade, and USA Today player of the year honors as quarterback for Berwick High. Joining Powlus is 6'5" 215­pound Thomas Krug from Los Gatos, Ca. 
"We addressed a major area of need in getting two quarter­backs," said Holtz. "We feel we have a lot to offer a quarterback and the opportunity to start is very good." 
Notre Dame landed four play­ers which Holtz projects as running backs. The most cele­brated of the group, Randy Kinder from East Lansing, Mi., was the state player of the year and a Parade and USA Today first-team selection. Robert Farmer from Illinois was the other tailback, signed after rushing for 1,500 yards as a senior. 
"We expect both Farmer and Kinder to have great careers," commented Holtz. "Getting a player the caliber of Kinder is important. 
"We felt we needed to sign two fullbacks and two running backs and we answered that need." 
Hon llardin and Marc Ed­wards are the fullbacks who will be looking to replace Jerome Bettis. Both drew raves from Holtz after stellar high school careers. Edwards was named Ohio's Mr. Football, scoring 73 touchdowns and gaining over 6,000 career yards. Hardin averaged over seven yards per carry. 
"I have not been more confi­dent with two fullbacks coming in," commented Notre Dame's coach. "I think Edwards is going to be an awfully good football player." 
The success in the backfield overshadowed a tough loss in the kicking game. Scott Bentley, an All-American placekicker and punter whose father attended Notre Dame, was pre­sumed to be heading to Notre Dame for the past two years, but a late surge by Florida State landed Bentley in Tallahassee. 
"We had reason to believe Scott was going to sign but it didn't work out that way," said Holtz. "We didn't recruit a kicker last season because we had all indications he was go­ing." 
Brian Ford, and all-state punter from Indianapolis, was a late addition to the group in hopes that he could fill a void in the kicking game. He averaged 
42.9 yards a punt but did very little placekicking. 
Even with the recruiting focus on offense, Notre Dame was able to pluck a number of standout defensive players, particularly in the linebacking corps. Jeff Kilburg was under­rated in high school but possess the size (6'4" 250-lb) needed at the linebacker position. 
Melvin Dansby appears to be the most talented of the group. The Irish beat out national champion Alabama in the race for the 6'3" 240-pound Dansby, who had 15 sacks in his senior season. Rounding out the group were Texas standout Bert Berry, with comparable athletic ability to Dansby, and Lyron Cobbins. 
"As far as linebackers go, we did well, but it was difficult with such an acute area of need at quarterback and running back," Holtz said. 
"Melvin Dansby is going to be a fine, fine football player. He came up for a visit with his mother, and it was a good visit. I went to his home last Tuesday and got a good indication that he would come to Notre Dame." 
The Irish will be a much larger team next season after signing five lineman standing over 6'4", two who received All­American honors. 6'7" 295­pound offensive lineman Chris Kurpeikis from Pennsylvania could action as a freshman, but Mike Dougherty needs to add bulk to his 255-pound frame. Tight end Rich Kaczenski will probably be moved to the offensive line, adding to the strength of the group. 

Darnell Smith and Chris Cle­venger were the only defensive lineman signed. Clevenger the more imposing of the two, standing at 6'8. The defensive front was a major area of need as Notre Dame is filled in that area. 
Emmett Mosely, a speedster from Colorado, could play a number of positions but may eventually settle in at wide re­ceiver_ Cikai Champion, a wide receiver/defensive back from Texas, appears also headed for a spot at receiver. 
Anthony Swinney, Brian Perry, Sim Stokes and Kinon Tatum were all signed to fill needs in the defensive backfield since the Irish will graduate three starters next year. 
Overall Holtz was pleased. 
"We knew this was a critical year for us in recruiting," he said. "On paper it looks good, but we will have to see in four years. We addressed some ma­jor areas of need and accom­plished most of what we wanted going into the recruiting process." 

------------------~----~---------------~-----~------------------------­
Thursday, February 4,1993 The Observer page 17 
...

Jlsll 19 Recruiting 93 Jlsll--­Successful recruiting season for Irish soccer teams 
Berticelli 'encouraged' with prospects Women's recruits labeled best ever 
By JASON KELLY 
By GEORGE Stanford. Among her get to know here and for
Sports Writer 
DOHRMANN many accolades was a her to see what we had to spot on the U.S.Y.S.A. All­offer," added Petrucelli.
Notre Dame men's Sports Writer 
American and a starting "Kate is left footed and
soccer coach Mike 
job on the nation's can play almost
Berticelli is getting A year ago, Notre Dame 
second-ranked club team. everywhere, and she has
defensive about women's soccer coach recruiting. Chris Petrucelli tacked his "We did a lot of good size at 5-8." 
evaluating of the nation's Camille Clinton from
After two years of recruiting class "the best stockpiling offensive ever at Notre Dame." A goalkeepers and we Seattle, Wa., was the believed that Jennifer was other midfielder signed by
talent, the focus this year year later, it appears we 
the best," added the Notre Dame. A player
is on defense. The grad­have a new champion. 
third-year coach. "She Petrucelli sees as a multi­
uation of Mario Tricoci "We went after the best 

has the abilitv to steo purpose type. 
and Kevin Pendergast will athletes we could and "Camille has the abilityleave some big holes in came away with a great 
to play anywhere," said

the back line, and group," Petrucelli. "She has good
Berticelli hopes some high said Petrucelli. 
feet and she's the type of

school seniors will find "Great" may be an 
player who can really add 

the openings attractive. understating the caliber to our program."
"With the loss of Tricoci of players Petrucelli 
The Irish started five

and Pendergast we really convinced to sign with freshmen a year ago, and
need to strengthen our Notre Dame. The group 
it appears that a number

defense," Berticelli said. includes three All­
of the newcomers,

"We're looking for four or Americans, one 
particularly Renola and

five freshmen who have considered the best 
Daws, could start nextthe ability to contribute player in the nation. right away." California native Cindy 

season. "I believe there is a

It is not unusual for Daws, called "the Ron 
good possibility that wefreshmen to contribute Powlus of women's quickly. In each of the soccer" by Petrucelli, is 

could start as many as last two seasons, a the jewel of the class. The 
three freshmen next freshman has led Notre Irish seemed unlikely to 
year," added Petrucelli. Dame in scoring. Jean get Davis, who was highly "And I see all five starting at one time during their
Joseph lead the team with Irish coaching staff tunnel have 24 or 25 players and recruited by North four years." 
11 goals and six assists vision when it comes to only 9. 9 scholarships it Carolina. But the 
Petrucelli's second

for a total of 28 points in recruiting. makes recruiting a very midfielder chose Notre 
outstanding recruiting

1991. Last season, it was "We're not looking for difficult process." Dame due mostly to her class can be credited to
Bill Lanza's turn. He the abundance of talent It appears that Berticelli close ties with current the success he has found
paced the Irish with 20 that we have in past has overcome the Irish midfielder Regan 
scouting players on a na­

points on eight goals and years," Berticelli difficulty once again. Coyne. four assists. explained. "This year NCAA rules forbid "Regan deserves a lot of 
tional scope. Two players from California, and oneJoseph and Lanza along we're concerned with coaches from talking the credit for getting from Texas anchored the

with veteran offensive filling specific holes, about individual players Cindy," said Petrucelli. 
right and play, but a lot class in 1992, and twostandouts Mike Palmer, particularly on defense." until they have signed "They are both on the 
depends how players from the west
Tim Oates, Jason Fox, Scholarship limitations national letters of intent, under 19 Youth National on she coast and Masters, from
Eric Ferguson and Shawn make it difficult to fill and the men's soccer team, and Regan made performs when she gets 
here." Florida highlight this
Bryden will be the core of those holes. One of the recruits aren't expected to her feel very comfortable year's group. 
Notre Dame's offense next big lures of college sports sign until sometime next with the group of players Petrucelli was also able 
to bring two heralded "It is not hard to sell
year and in years to come. is the break in tuition, but week. But Berticelli is we already have." 
forwards to South Bend. Notre Dame," he said.
They won't have trouble sports like soccer can't optimistic about the Going into the scoring goals. Defense is dangle a full ride in front team's prospects. recruiting process, Stacia Masters from "The class we had last 
the question mark. Petrucelli put great em­Tampa, Fla was also a year set the stage for this
of a recruit. Revenue 
phasis on signing a top­U.S.Y.S.A. All-American, group. We were not ansports (football and men's "It has been an active as well as a Parade All­established team last year Sophomore goalkeeper basketball) command the recruiting season and I'm flight goaltender to 
Bert Bader and defender most of the scholarship encouraged with the way replace graduating senior American. Joining and getting those recruits Masters is Kate Fisher, a (last year) was hard. This
Chris Dean are the only money. it is going," he said. "I Michelle Lodyga. His Cincinnati, Oh. product. year we were able to get
returning players with "There's never enough think things are falling wishes were answered "We had Stacia here at players by selling the
substantial experience in (scholarships) to go into place." when Jennifer Renola from Los Gatos, Ca. our camp, and that gave success we had during the the back line. The holes around," Berticelli Next week he'll know 
us a good opportunity to season and the caliber of
on defense have given the explained. "When we for sure. picked Notre Dame over 
Volleyball team gets just what it needs 
Brown is optimistic about continued success. "All five have the ability to come in this fall and play significant roles for us," she said. 

By DAN PIER Sports Writer 
With two key middle blockers and two key outside hitters graduating, Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown knew exactly where she would need help in order to build upon her team's stellar 1992 season. With the signing Wednesday of five recruits, Brown and the Irish volleyball program got just what they needed. 
The five high school standouts signing national letters of intent included outside hitter Kristina Ervin, middle blockers Laura Reckmeyer and Jennifer Rouse, and two players who can play both positions, Jennifer Briggs and Jenny Birkner. 
"This class provides us with both quantity and quality," said Brown, who will enter her third year as Notre Dame coach next fall. "While we have an excellent group of players re­turning, this incoming class will play a big part in keeping us one of the top programs in the country over the next four years." 
Ervin, a 5-foot-1 0 multi-sport star from Maynard, Minnesota, was featured in Faces in the Crowd in the January 18 issue of Sports Illustrated. She amassed more than 1,000 kills 


page 18 The Observer Thursday, February 4,1993 
Morrissey team to beat in lnterhall hoops playoffs 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 

As the regular season winds to a close, the playoffs in the men's interhall basketball A League begin next week, with the top two teams in each of the three divisions getting the op­portunity to contend for the ti­tle. With five of the six playoff teams already determined, Morrissey and Off-Campus are viewed as the favorites. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cheerleading and Leprechaun tryouts informational meeting will be held February 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the JACC. The clinics start February 15. 
Bookstore Basketball XXII applications for commissioner positions are now available in Student Government office. All applications have to be in by noon on February 8. 
NO Ski Club will have a meeting on February 4 in 184 Nieuwland at 7:30p.m.. Anyone interested in the Spring Break trip to Steamboat, CO should attend. Call Chris Boone with any questions at 273-2958. 
The men's varsity rowing team is in need of rowers and will be holding testing on February 10 at 7 p.m. at Loftus. Interested parties should send a brief statement outlining your interest, telephone number and class year to William T. Webb at 52236 Ironwood Dr., S.B., 46635. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be meeting tonight in the basement of Farley at 7 p.m.. All are welcome. Please call 
E.D. at 634-1276 with questions. 
Mandatory rowers meeting at 7 p.m. today in 118 Nieuwland. Bring your checkbooks. 
Morrissey, though it dropped its final regular season game to Dillon 57-56, was named by a number of opposing coaches as the team to beat. However, captain Tom Kelly was hesitant to get too overconfident, noting that, "We have to improve our defense, because we gave up too many easy baskets in our last game. There is still a lot of room for improvement." 
Despite Kelly's caution, Mor­rissey is still one of the most talented squads in the league, relying on the inside force of Mike Martin and Brian Corbett, and the stability and shooting of Kelly on the outside. As Todd Reynders of Off-Campus noted, the Morrissey team has been playing together at the Rock all year, allowing them to play co­hesively in a league situation. 
Off-Campus was the other team most feared by opposing coaches, as Kelly of Morrissey noted that they "are definitely the most talented." This talent is largely in the hands of former gridiron stars Eric Jones and Brian Radigan. who are the players the team wants with the ball in clutch situations. 
However, OC captain Reyn­ders noted that "it's still impor­tant for us to come to play each game with intensity and to play unselfishly." He also stated that while Morrissey has been playing together all year, his squad is only put together for the season, and the players are still getting accustomed to one another on the court. 
Fisher is the only team in the playoffs with a perfect 6-0 record, although they could be matched by St. Ed's with a vic­tory over Keenan. Despite the undefeated record, Fisher captain Steve Amer was only cautiously optimistic. 
"Other teams in the playoffs, especially Morrissey and OC, are a lot bigger than we are," said Amer, "So we'll need to push the ball up the floor and get excellent guard play in order to be successful." 
This all-important guard play will come primarily from Gar­rett Hartman, the team's lead­ing outside threat, and the per­son the team will rely on to take charge in a close game. For­ward Tim Frank, the team's leading scorer, will also be a factor in clutch situations. 
St. Ed's, leading the Big 10 division, may be the most un­heralded team coming into the playoffs, but can be one of the most dangerous. "The reason for our success is that we play eleven guys and everyone con­tributes," noted captain Chris Bartoli, "However, to be suc­cessful in the playoffs, we'll have to play solid defense and pass to the open man." 
St. Ed's will rely primarily on Tony Gentine, a clutch shooting guard who has come up with important shots in big games. St. Ed's was the only team to beat OC this year, relying on a number of Gentine three point­ers to complete a second half rally. 
Cavanaugh is another team to watch coming into the playoffs, its only loss being a close three­point decision to undefeated Fisher. Coach Vinny Sanchez pointed out that the team "needs consistent offense, mov­ing the ball around to the open man, in order to be successful." Sanchez resisted singling out any player as a reason for the team's success, as all eleven play. 

Don't be caught empty handed! Valentines Day is Sunday, February 14th 
Pre-Order by Frida}j February 5th for lower prices 
at 

IRISH GARDENS 
All Delivery Orders Must Be In By Saturday 
Please make all orders in advance for fastest service 

Visa/MC accepted delivery to NO/SMC/off campus Balloons/Cards too! 
Open Sunday, February 14th 
12:30-5:30 

Today 
Thursday, February 4,1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER 
IN HIS 
SruDE.NI 
w11.-6 u R 
Tit£ BlJGK 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

I 11-\\~K WE tv\\G\{\ ~LL LEf>-RN. A. LE'S'SO~ FROM lbW 11-\\'3 \.JTI£R.L'i \.JI'{\Q\.JE f>-1{0 EXQ\l\'51\£. 
CR'ISIAl .., 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATTERSON 
A~O ~()1(.1, '.'11-\\LE 

I~E 1\N.II-.\...O<;'{ • 'S\N.KS IN., I'll. BE l't:A.~ \\'I.G 'iO\l DRIPS ~\) 60\t\G 
0\.J\'S\0£'. 


...TlJR~'S 11>1\<J 1\\--l OR\l\1'-li\Ri. BOR\1\«i 1-'\0\.KULE Of' 't-11\lt.R JUST l\¥.E t.\IER'{ 011-\ER 
O~E. \f IN  '.'11-\E~ '{OU BR\~G TI-\E CL~SSR00\1\.  
~I  
Jr  

39 "-,You're Rockin' the Boat," 23 Down song 
40 Evening parties 42 Use a shuttle 44 Model 45 Egg holders 46 Gratis 


ll. 47 "-Bea Lady," I? -•. _· •:•­
23 Down song It •· ·. · 48Woodwind 50 "-Ideas," 
1951 song 51 Singer Turner 54 Eureka! 55 Type of whale 57 G.R.F.'s V.P. 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1224 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Goliath, e.g. 
6 Rawboned one 11 Kind of dye 14 Heart chambers 15 ---France 16 Ex-pitcher 
Charlie-­17 Dusting powders 18 Runyon who mspired 23 
Down 19 Approvals 20 Music-lyrics 
man for 23 Down 22 Discharge 24 Let a flat 25Jambon -­(cured ham) 
26"The-of Miss Sarah Brown," by 18 Across 
28 --the gallery (grandstands) 32 Certain trumpeters 33 Distributes cards 34 Actress Copley 35 --the Horse, role in 23 Down 37 Con 38 Leif et al. 40 Agitated states 41 Expense-account item 
42 "Marry the Man --,"23Down song 
43 Brannigan et al.: Abbr. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

44Grants-­46 Two-time P.G.A. champ 49 Nathan--, 
role in 23 Down 52 Impediment 53 Places of refuge 56--marbles 58 Author Umberto 
59 Einkorn, e.g. 60 Actress 
Verdugo 61 Maui crater 62 A human score 63 A spectral type 
DOWN 
1 Rod for Big Jule 2 Slanted type: 
Abbr. 3 Woody offshoot 4 Role in 23 Down 5 Loafers' 
ornaments 6 Heads or tails 7 Cartoonist 
Briggs a Sleep stage: Abbr. 9 Flurry 10 Save-a-Soul Mission V.I.P. 11 The medicine plant 12 Director of 23 
Down 13 Expel 21 Actor Mineo 23 Hit musical 25 Kind of pigeon 

26 "If-a Bell," 23 Down song 27 Old Persian coin 28--diem 29 Actress Braga 30 A polishing powder 31 Singer Redding 32 Old finish 33A.M.A. group 35 Quick flights 36 Rocker Adam 

Thursday, FEB 4 
NADINE STROSSEN 
the first female president 
of the American Civil 
Liberties Union 
... to speak on 
..Sexual Harrassment and Pornography.. 
7:30pm Hesburgh Auditorium FREE 

Friday, FEB S *ICE SKATING JACC
at the 

81.00 skate rental, cookies and cocoa 8:30-8-15pm; 8:45-1 0:30pm
*Jesse Jackson 7pm 
check Lafortune info desk for details 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


• 
... 
page 20 Thursday, February 4,1993 MIKE 

Burris, Ruddy, Taylor selected as tri-captains 
Sports 
SCRUDATO 

Special to the Observer 
Safety Jeff Burris, center Tim Ruddy
Random Thoughts and guard Aaron Taylor have been named tri-captains of the Notre Dame football team for 1993. Irish coach Lou Holtz announced yesterday. 
career) and assisted in full-house backfield situations near the goal line. He earned honorable mention All­American honors from Football News in both '91 and '92. Burris is a manage­ment major in the College of Business Administration. 
Ruddy, a 6-3, 278-pound senior from Dunsmore, Pa .. ranks as Notre Dame's returning starter at center for '93 after opening in all 12 games there last fall. He helped the Irish rank among the national leaders in total offense and rushing, as Notre Dame finished third in both categories (470.4 total yards, 280.9 rushing yards). 
A standout in the classroom as well, Ruddy claimed first-team GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-America honors in '92. He earned a perfect 4.0 average during the '92 fall semester and now boasts. a 3.839 overall academic average. 
He also received the Delta Air Lines/Mobil Cotton Bowl Scholar-Athlete Award in conjunction with the '93 Cotton 
New recruits should 
continue Olympic 
sports' ascension 
When Dick Rosenthal became Notre Dame athletic director in 1987 he made a pledge to improve the University's athletic program as a whole. 
Though this has meant some sacrifice, Rosenthal has lived up to his promise. 
Notre Dame has nationally-ranked teams in cross-country, men's and women's soccer, volleyball, lacrosse, men's and women's tennis and 
Burris, a senior-to-be, has been a starter in the secondary each of the last two seasons, openings 12 games at safety in 1992. He made more special teams appearances and played more minutes than any player last season. 
He played possibly the most unique, all-purpose role of anyone in college football last fall. In addition to starting every game on defense and leading the Irish in interceptions and ranking third in tackles, rushing for three touchdowns and scoring a fourth on a pass reception. Burris started the first half of the season at free safety, then switched to strong safety for the last six games. 
He made 73 tackles (136 in his career), intercepted five passes (seven in his 
baseball. Hockey is on its way to becoming a formidable program in the Central 
Irish sign talented prep seniors 
Collegiate Hockey Association. 
These facts are obvious to anyone who looks at the aforementioned statistics, but another area is a true 
1993 FOOTBALL SIGNEES
reflection on the overall state of the 
Notre Dame athletic program­
recruiting. 

Bert Berry LB Yesterday was the national signing 
Humble, Texas 6--4 230 day for both soccer teams and volleyball, as well as football. 
Clkaf Champion WR 
The fantastic group of football 
Tyler, TX &-11170 
prospects coming to Notre Dame next 
fall has been highly publicized, but the 
Chris Clevenger DE
same cannot be said of the other 
Wichita, KS 6--7 245
sports. On pages 16 and 17 today's Observer offers a full report on the bumper crop 
Lyron Cobbins LB 
Kansas City, Kan. 6-2 230
of high school stars entering the 
University in 1993. 

Based on the scouting reports, men's 
Melvin Dansby LB 
and women's soccer and volleyball 
Birmingham, AL 6·4 250 
should continue their ascent up the 
national rankings. 

Mike Doughty OL
Though men's soccer did not 
announce any signings, they are 
looking to fill some holes in the defense 
left by the graduation of Mario Tricoci 
and Kevin Pendergast. Expect some 
signings next week. 

In women's soccer, Chris Petrucelli 
has a class that should rival this 
season's group of freshmen phenoms. 
This includes what he calls the best 
goalie in the country and the "Ron 
Powlus of women's soccer." Petrucelli 
lured highly-touted recruits away from 
traditional powers Stanford and North 
Carolina. 

This is an amazing fact considering 
these teams were playing in NCAA 
tournaments before Notre Dame's 
women's soccer program even existed. 
The volleyball team has also brought 
in live top-notch recruits, and Coach 
Debbie Brown and company could 
make this year's trip to the NCAAs an 
annual occurance . 

This too is startling. Just three 
By JASON KELLY 
seasons ago the volleyball plundered 
Sports Writer 

through a 9-27 season and was 
embroiled in a coaching contraversey. 
Sending the opposition to the
Brown has done a fantastic job 
free throw line 39 times is not aturning the program around. 
goc-d way to win a basketballThese three programs are a perfect game.
example of what Roenthal meant by 
The Notre Dame women's
improving the athletic program as a basketball team found that outwhole. 
first hand in a 69-63 loss toSo, take a look a the two pages of Midwestern Collegiate Confer­recruiting news. and read more than ence rival LaSalle on January 2.
the football stories because the soccer The Explorers visit the Joyce
and volleyball programs could be Center for a rematch tonight.
joining the football team in the national and the Irish will try just aboutchampionship chase next fall. 
anything to hold down their 
number of fouls. INSIDE SPORTS "We can't afford to send them r=--:-::--;-----;-----:::---:---:--...,-----, to the free throw line 39 times," 
• Morrissey favorite In playoffs Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. see page 18 
"We are going to work on not 
fouling and get my mom and 
dad to officiate. Maybe that will
• lnterhall hockey wrapup 
help." 

Rumor has it that her parents 
see page15 

won't be blowing the whistles tonight. But playing at home may be all the help the Irish 
• Forsyth competes In Rolex 
see page13 
need. 

~-------------~ 
Jeff Kilburg LB Park Ridge, IL 6-4250 
Randy Kind~~ TB JHI East Lansing, Ml 6-1 205 
TomKrug a a Los Gatos, CA '6•5210 
9 
Chris Kurpelkle OL PittsbUrgh, PA 6-7 290 
·""'·w-.=~ . ..,,,:::::· .. =#'-?:: 
Emm&tt Mosley ATH Denver, CO '> 5·9170 
Brla~~t~erry DB 
*6-1205 
aa 
!1!!6-4210 

DB 
6·2 200 
DB 
5-11180 

In January, Notre Dame played eight road games and won just two. In the friendly surroundings of the Joyce Center they were 2-0, decisively beating Detroit Mercy and Loyola. 
"It's great to be home," Mc­Graw said. "We were unde­feated at home in January and hopefully we can keep up that record through March." 
That's when the MCC tour­nament comes to Notre Dame, with an NCAA tournament bid awaiting the winner. 
But the tournament comes later. Notre Dame's main con­cern now is stopping a four­game losing streak that includes a pair of losses to MCC opponents. The Irish now stand at 8-9 overall and 4-3 in the conference, while LaSalle comes in at 10-7 overall and 5-3 in the MCC. 
Bowl, the '92 Student-Athlete Award from the Notre dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and the '91 State Farm/Mutual Broadcasting Student-Athlete of the Year award. Ruddy also earned honorable mention All-America honors from Football News in '92. He's a mechanical engineering major. 
Taylor, a 6-4, 294-pound senior from Concord, Calif., heads into his third season as a starter at guard for the Irish after starting all 12 contests for Notre Dame in 1992.He ranked as the most decorated of Irish players last fall, winning All-America honors from Associated Press, United Press Inter­national, Walter Camp Foundation and Football News. 
He was one of 12 semifinalists for the '92 Lombardi Award and several preseason publications in '92 rated him the top offensive guard in the nation coming in to the season. A starter in 11 games as a sophomore in '91, Taylor is a sociology major. 
Quarterbacks, running backs highlight class 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz was all smiles yesterday. 
Twenty-one of the nation's top high 
• Recruiting roundup/pages 16-17 
school seniors signed national letters of intent with the Irish for next season, with two more expected to sign in the next few days. 
SuperPrep magazine ranked Notre Dame's class fourth, behind Miami, Michigan and Florida State. The Irish were ranked first last year. The drop in ranking does not indicate a drop in talent level. The small number of scholarships to distribute cost the Irish the top spot. 
"There were several athletes we thought we could get but didn't have scholarships for," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. 
Despite the small number of athletes signed, Notre Dame was able to fill major areas of need, and bring depth to many positions already in tact. 
The prospects at quarterback and running back received the most praise from Holtz. Pennsylvania product Ron Powlus earned every award a high school player can. The 6'3" 210-pound 
see HOL TZ/page 16 
The Observer/John Rock 



Despite the recent downturn, Freshman guard Stacy Fields, a Shoreview, Mn. native, has provided a spark for the women's basketball squad during her 
see HOOPS/page 15 
freshman campaign. 

t 








