Bishops support accused Cardinal 
The Observer I David Hungeling 
Cheering for #1 
The Notre Dame Cheerleaders celebrate outside of Grace Hall last night as the dorm and spectators witnessed the lighting of the "#1" sign on the roof of the tower. 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) will recom­mend student representation at the annual planning session for the Keenan Hevue, according to student consensus at last night's Saint Mary's open fo­rum. 

I:N:ljlii!]I61l'Ujhlt:WH II 
The formal position of BOG concerning the annual Notre Dame satirical event held on the Saint Mary's campus is that the Revue contains a negative demeanor towards women, and thus should perhaps be pre­cluded from taking place on the campus, according to Mary Beth Wilkinson, Student Body President. 
"BOG would like to re-evalu­
ate the content of the Review 
and discuss those skits which 
portray women's' issues as 
humorous," Wilkinson said. 
Past skits which have 
caused concern among Saint 
Mary's students have included 
rape and other sexual connota­
tions, eating disorders and ex­
cessive alcohol consumption 
among SMC and Notre Dame 
women, Wilkinson said. 
The Keenan Revue was orig­inally held in Washington Hall on the University of Notre Dame campus and was moved to O'Laughlin Auditorium on the Saint Mary's campus when student demand for tickets ex­ceeded the seating available in Washington Hall. 
Under contractual agree­ments, the Keenan Revue will remain at O'Laughlin Auditorium this year, although questions have arisen among BOG members as to whether or not it is in the best interest of the Saint Mary's community as a women's college to host such an event. 
"We are not looking to censor the production. Instead, we are making an effort to change the status quo," said SMC se­nior Heidi Deckelmann. "We're letting Keenan know that some of their topics of humor are not in any way humorous," 
Other students, including Junior Deborah Sheedy, sup­port the idea of having a repre­sentative from BOG speak to the review board about exclud­ing controversial topics, but at the same time feel that it should be up to the individual student to decide whether or not she will attend the show. 
"But as a Catholic college, we support the values of the Church-likewise, we should realize that as a women's col­lege we need to present the val­ues of women," said Melissa Whelan, Spiritual Life Commissioner at Saint Mary's. 
"When I see stereotypes of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women, it offends me which is why, as women, we 
By DAVID BRIGGS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S. bishops rallied around embattled Chicago Cardinal Joseph Bernardin Monday, standing and cheering for their colleague accused of sexually abusing a teen-ager more than a decade ago. 
While abuse victims stood outside asking the church to let the courts decide, some 300 prelates opened their fall meet­ing expressing their faith in Bernardin's innocence. 
"To Cardinal Bernardin, we offer our support, our full sup­port," declared Archbishop William Keeler, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops. 
In another development, a Chicago archdiocesan panel concluded after an initial in­quiry that Bernardin does not pose a risk to children and should not be placed on leave pending further investigation. 
At the bishops' meeting, a tired-looking Bernardin, 65, showed the turmoil of the last three days on his face as he again faced the media to pro­fess his innocence. 
"My life is an open book. And I think that will be my best de­fense," he said. 
The agenda for the four-day meeting includes a proposed major pastoral statement on foreign policy that calls on the United States to combat a g-round swell of.isolationism and to continue to intervene in regional conflicts in areas such as the Balkans and Somalia. 

New approach needed; Church needs to be open 
ByJOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
ln the wake of accusations charging Joseph Cardinal Bernardin of Chicago with the sexual abuse of a 34-year old Cincinnati man, the Catholic Church should take ·a less ag­gressive and more open posi­tion when dealing with alleged victims, according to Father Richard McBrien, professor of theology. 

NEWS ANALYSIS 
While both Vatican Radio and Daniel Pilarczyk, the cur­rent Archbishop ofCincinnati lashed out at Bernardin's accuser, former seminarian Steven Cook, calling his charges "filthy" and "rul)bish," the Cardinal took a lighter tone; simply telling reporters at the U.S. Bishop's Conference that he is innocent. and that his "life.is an open book." 
Bernardin's simple denial of the charges avoided amistake that had been made repeatedly in the past, ;;tccording to McBrien. Denials and attacks against alleged victims by ac· cused priests and bishops only alienate alleged victims, whose accusations may be true. 
In. cases in the past, similar actions have cost the church precious credibilitY. as well as millions of dollars in court set­tlements, he said. 
"The most important thing for us to say is that 'I know him, I trust him, and believe him,' hot do not go beyond that -that is a mistake that the Catholic Bishops made," McBrien said. "In many cases they attacked the person mak­ing the charges in an attempt to scare or intimidate or fright­en them. In many cases the charges are true;" 
In the past, the typical reac­tion might have been to try to 
see PRIESTS I page 4 

The bishops also began their discussion Monday of a pro­posed statement on marriage and the family that encourages Catholic husbands and wives to move beyond the sexual stereo­types they grew up with and divide household and parenting responsibilities. 
But the allegations of sexual abuse against Bernardin, leader of the nation's second largest archdiocese and a for­mer president of the bishops' conference, have cast a cloud over the gathering. 
In the suit, Steven Cook, 34, said Bernardin abused him sometime between 1975 and 1977, when Cook was in a high school program at a Cincinnati seminary. Bernardin was arch­bishop of Cincinnati from 1972 until1982. 



Keenan Revue location discussed 
need to have a say in what is said about us at such a popular student event like the Keenan Review," said Wilkinson. 
Among other topics discussed at last night's open forum was the proposal for the Saint Mary's Christian Service Center(SMCSC). 
Joseph Incandela, professor of Religious Studies at Saint Mary's and a member of the planning group for the SMCSC stated the overall need for con­tinuity and the betterment of the S.U.R.V. program at Saint Mary's. 
"Transportation to and from volunteer organizations, ad­ministrative space and exper­tise and recognition of students are just a few of the things that a campus center would pro­vide," he said. 
Means to finance the pro­posed center remain in ques­tion, as does speculation of stu­dent support for such a center. 
"The presidents(of Saint Mary's) have to know that stu­dents will work with them. It was· never our intention to bur­den the students in terms of their pocketbooks; nor will we hope to cost the college any­thing," Incandela said. "We would ultimately like to see the center funded by outside sources such as alumni and other donors." 
The BOG position on the pro-
see FORUM I page 4 


Panel on homeless held, various experiences shared 
By COLIN O'NEIL services and working with News Writer people," he said. Notre Dame provides the 
Homelessness is a plague South Bend Center with its that can strike anyone, but building and $180,000 worth self-determination and com­of meals annually, as well as munity assistance enable vic­support for its Christmas lun­tims to overcome their adver­cheon, which this year fea­sity, according to members of tures as speaker Head last night's panel discussion Football Coach Lou Holtz, said on the homeless. Pauline. 
Several social workers and In other discussion, Sister residents of two South Bend Suzanne Patterson, CSC., homeless shelters shared their director of the Holy Family experiences, answered ques­Catholic Worker House, a hos­tions, and lauded Notre Dame pitality and community center for its participation in the for single women with chil­struggle against what South dren which garners support Bend Center for the Homeless from the South Bend and case manager and panel mem­Notre Dam.e communities, ber Andy Pauline termed the touted Gabriela Jameson, a "most serious problem facing resident for seven months at the United States today." the home, as a homeless suc­
Despite society's persistent cess story. attempts to pinpoint the roots A native of Germany, of transiency, each situation Jameson left an abusive family must be recognized as unique, with her young son and strug­Pauline said, citing socioeco­gled to find a job while partici­nomic, change in society, and pating in the communal living personal factors that at the Catholic Worker House, differentiate situations. said Patterson. She has since 
Pauline expressed frustra­moved out but visits daily and tion that the center had to intends to return its gen­spend so much time raising erosity. money instead of directly aid­Bob Wind, another panel 
ing the problem. member, stressed that home­
"We're required to spend lessness can strike anywhere. half our time raising monies, rather than actually providing see HOMELESS I page 4 


~~ --~-----­
page 2 Tuesday, November 16, 1993
The Observer· INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Pre-gan1e hoopla eclipses tragtc• story 
Few students were talk­ing about it Saturday morning. Not many of the thousands of people who filed into the parking lots around the stadium heard about it. And it was the last thing on the minds of the mob that tumbled in dogpiles in the student section, arms out­stretched and index fin­gers pointing skyward, the mob that finally swelled onto the field in a colossal celebration. 
But Saturday night, when the football field emptied, the lights flickered out and the last worker locked the gates to the stadium, one story remained to be told. 
The story was Mara Fox's. The Lyons Hall freshman was walking on Douglas Road Friday night with some friends on her way home from Macri's Deli. On her way to join the mob. She never made it. The car of a drunk-driver struck her, and Fox was pronounced dead an hoyr later. 
Amid the din of post-game media chatter, drunken celebrations and far-ofT strains of the Fight Song, it was really the only story that seemed important. 
There is something striking when a simple story -one that plays itself out everyday around the world -hits close to home. Certainly her death is not the first, nor will it be the last. 
But this weekend, the irony was tangible. A community loses a member just as it wraps itself in its blue and gold and prepares itself for battle. The roar of pre-game swallows up a young student. 
The classic win over Florida State will be con­sidered a triumph for the Notre Dame mys­tique, but for the students here, the victory comes with a gruesome footnote. 
These are the stories that seem to define a place. More than a national championship, more than the establishment of a new ad­ministrative committee, more than a full-length feature film. It has something to do with how a community reacts when it faces tragedy. 
We saw it in 1992, when two swimmers were killed in a bus accident. Thousands appeared at a memorial Mass and local businesses pitched in hotel rooms and food for the swimmers and their families. It was a phenomenal outpouring of support. 
Notre Dame showed what it means to be part of this community. In the coming days, Fox's friends and family will certainly experience it. 
But what about John Rita, the student driving the car? It is hard not to feel sympathy for a person who has made a terrible mistake, some­one who certainly woke up Saturday morning with a sense of 'What have I done?' 
In a world that is often unforgiving, we can only hope that Notre Dame will open its arms in a gesture of healing. 
It will be a long time before students forget the classic victory over Florida State. The image of Shawn Wooden sending a Charlie Ward pass crashing to the field will long be emblazoned our collective memory. 
Most of us did not know Mara Fox, and still fewer saw the accident. But while her story may not be the stuiT of the "Notre Dame mys­tique," it is a story that will not soon be forgot­ten. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
Sarah Doran Production David Clairmont 
John Rock Kathie Young Sports Beth Regan Graphics Brendan Regan Lab Tech John Bingham 
The Ohmvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi>hed Monday through Friday cx,:cpl during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Prc:-ss. All reproduclion righrs Jre rc:served. 


WORLD AT AGLANCE 
LOS ANGELES 
Michael Jackson didn't check into an overseas drug treatment program as an excuse to avoid returning to the United States to face child molestation allegations, his attorneys said today. The entertainer's civil attorney, Bertram Fields labeled as "flatly false" suggestions that Jackson's 
that he is seeking help with an 
tallUJ\.Ouuu to painkillers is an excuse to id returning home. "If Michael· 
on wanted an excuse to stay out of United States all he had to do is stay his tour," Fields told a news confer­
nee. The attorney said Jackson was "barely able to function on an intellectual level" because of his addiction to painkillers. The drug treatment pro­gram was not revealed. Fields said Jackson's privacy could not have been protected in an American institution, but he insisted the program was actually chosen based on med­ical advice. Asked about reports that Jackson was in France, Fields would only say that extradition laws had nothing to do with the country where Jackson went for treatment. The tour cancellation led to a parting of ways between Jackson and PepsiCo. 
Senate: EPA poor on 1990 Clean Air Act 
WASHINGTON 
Three years after the Clean Air Act was overhauled in a bid to improve the nation's air quality, the government is woefully behind in curbing toxic chemicals that create pol­lution problems, a congressional survey says. "Almost half 
all Americans still breathe unsafe air and factory stacks still spew toxic smoke, and we have done less than we could to stop it," said Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., chair­man of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee which put out the report. A top Environmental Protection Agency official said lack of money may force the agency to look at a more streamlined regulatory process that would lower the health protection standard for air­borne toxins in the short term. implementation phase. 
OHIO 


CHI 
American Indian leaders waited for a glimpse of 
their history Monday as museums rushed to meet a federal deadline for cataloging Indian artifacts. A law passed in 1990 mandates the return of American Indian burial relics and skeletal remains. Indian groups believe displ such objects is sacrilegious and desecrates tribal culture. Museums had until Tuesday to mail lists of burial objects separated from human remains. "It's about time. We're going to be made to know what the museums have tha belongs to us," said William Tallbull, chairman of the Northern Cheyenne's cultural commission in Lame Deer, Mont. His tribe received its first inventory Monday, from Texas museum that has Cheyenne beads, ermine skins and a bison pipe. Tallbull said about 3,500 Cheyenne bur­ial objects are scattered at museums around the country. and he hopes they all will be returned. At the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, home to one of the nation's largest Indian collections, curator Jonathan Haas mailed the last of 753 lists Monday. The museum already has returned a sacred sundance wheel to the Northern Arapaho tribe and human remains to the Blackfeet and a Hawaiian Indian group. But Haas feels the Field Museum will lose only a fraction of its collection. 


Ex-KGB agent: Oswald 'a clear neurotic' 
A former KGB agent who met with Lee Harvey Oswald two months before President Kennedy was shot described the soon-to-be assassin as "a clear neurotic" desperate to re-enter the Soviet Union to escape FBI harassment. "I was struck by his aloofness," retired Col. Ole Nechiporenko said in an interview with the daily Izvestia, published on Monday. "He seemed to be looking right through me, deep in his own thoughts." Nechiporenko, who was vice consul at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico in 1963, said Oswald visited the embassy twice that year on Sept. 27 and 28 -to ask for immediate permission to return to the Soviet Union. 
llndianapoli3 52° I 
• 

ILL 
KY. 
~ 
i)


4:~,Q4. ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~,;.ies Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIS Assoctated Press Graph/CsNet 01993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
FRONTS:  
........--T""  ............ ..............  
COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  
Pressure H L HIGH LOW  a &::] SHOWERS RAIN  II] .0 [Z] §I[ T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE  -!) SUNNY  
v,. AsSOCIBied Press  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston  H" 76 75 71  L 57 50 53  Denver London Los Angeles M1ami  3-,-27 46 43 67 51 85 77  New York Philadelphia San Francisco Seattle  72 75 68 48  ~4 53 53 33  
Ctucago Columbus Dallas  46 69 68  43 60 5~  Minneapolis Montreal New OrleA'1S  37 45 84  29 42 75  Seoul Toronto Washmqton, O.C  63 59 76  50 47 56  

~-------------~---~­

Tuesday, November 16, I 993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Vote rejects statehood,




Apparition appearances discussed 
By ROBERT CAHILL her to be haunted by demons Five world renowned scien­
Puerto Rico resists change 
News Writer until 1987, said Hancock. It tists, including those who 
was at this time that Christ worked on the Shroud of Turin, 
By DAVID BEARD 
The Blessed Mother appears reappeared to Fowler as his have tested Nancy Fowler, ac­
Associated Press 
on the 13th of every month in resurrected self. cording to Hancock. These sci­Conyers, Georgia and hundreds From 1987 to 1990, the entists have been unable to dis­SAN JUAN, Puerto Ricoof thousands of pilgrims flock Virgin Mary and Christ ap­prove any of Nancy's claims 
When Puerto Ricans nar­
to Conyers in hopes of seeing peared to Fowler everyday. In and have actually proved that 
rowly voted to reject the
the apparition, said Ann Marie 1990, Mary told Fowler that she is seeing something when 
prospect of statehood, they
Hancock, author of a book on she wanted her apparitions to she is having her visions by were showing their reluctancethe apparitions, in a lecture be known publicly and said measuring her brain wave ac­to risk the economic benefits
given last night. that she would start appearing tivity, she said. 
reaped from 41 years as a com­
on the 13th of every month in One of Nancy's claims is that 
monwealth.
For example, on Saturday, an adjacent field. However, her Crucifix has a heartbeat 
Statehood advocates,
November 13, despite "The Mary and Christ continue to and this team of scientists has rebuffed in Sunday's three-way Game of the Century," 180,000 appear to Fowler everyday, detected a pulse on Nancy's vote, consoled themselves by
people traveled to Conyers to said Hancock. Crucifix. One scientist con­pointing out that the island'switness the apparition of Mary Christ and Mary have deliv­cluded that they were dealing 
inhabitants never have been
the Mother of God, she said. · ered many messages to Fowler with a higher power which quick to embrace change -notHancock told the story of to pass on to the American they were unable to compre­
during four centuries of
Nancy Fowler, a 4 7 year old public. Christ has told Fowler hend scientifically, said Spanish colonial rule, nor in 95 homemaker with two children that, "'I am pouring more Hancock. 
years as a U.S. territory.
who was visited by Michael the graces here (Conyers) than 
"When all the colonies of
Archangel three times in 1983 anywhere else, outside My Holy Ann Marie Hancock is the Spain were fighting fo!" inde­with a message for Nancy to Mass. You are the nation I author of "Wake Up, pendence, we received all theprepare for heavenly visitors. have given the most and you America!." a book about loyalists to Spain from all theFowler claims that Christ deny Me the most,"' said Nancy Fowler and the Conyers 
other places," Charlie
took her to see Satan, causing Hancock. apparitions. 
Rodriguez, the island Senate's majority leader, told The
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
Associated Press from his office in the ocean-side Capitol. "We became a very docile,
·:.•,:. 


~­

With Visa® you'll be accepted at more than I 0 miiUon places, nearly three times more than American Express. 
And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 
loyal people," he said. "We did not fight the Americans when they landed here" in 1898. 
Rodriguez backed Gov. Pedro Rossello in his attempt, through the vote, to alter Puerto Rico's ambiguous relationship with the United States and take the first step toward making the island the 51st state. 
The election Sunday was a lesson in democracy. Nearly three-quarters of the 2.3 mil­lion registered voters turned out. No violence or tampering was reported and the loser gra­ciously bowed to the will of the people. 
Commonwealth received 823,258, or 48.4 percent of the vote; statehood 785,859, or 
46.2 percent; independence 75,253, or 4.4 percent. 
Statehooders sought Monday to portray their narrow loss as a historical gain for their tradi­tionally runner-up movement. They pledged to press on with their fight, but acknowledged it might take a while. 
"People in Puerto Rico take too much time to change," Rodriguez complained. "You have to educate, take away misconceptions that people have had all their life." 
Commonwealth supporters acknowledged the tenor of their campaign was to present change as a potential threat to the island's Spanish language, its separate Olympic teams and the commonwealth tax breaks that have helped transform a poor, sugar-farming land into an industrial, middle-class so­ciety. . 
The campaign defended a way of life that allows tariff protection for its rich mountain coffee and reflects the prefer­ences of islanders for local over world issues. 
Memorial 
for Fox 



planned 

By ANALISE TAYLOR 
NewsWrirer 
The-freshman class is plan-· 
.ning to establish -a memorial for Mara Fox. the freshman killed early Saturday morning in ·a.dtunk driving acefd~nt, said· Freshman Class· Council member Thomas Matzzie. 
STUDENT SENATE 
Proposed ideas include planting a tree on .. the groutlds of Lyons Hallin remembrance ofFox, he said. 
The Senate also proposed a charity concert or benefit poster to aid the scholarship fund. 
In other Senate news, LaFortune student businesses continue to bring in revenue at a steady rate, according to Kristie Shafer of the Student Business Board. 
Irish Gardens remains the top student business again this month due to the two big dance weekends and high sales during football. week· ends, she said. 
ND Video, another student business, doubled its mem· berships in the first thr1:1e weeks Of operation, said Shafer. 
It plans to advertise with flyers 11nd put up moVie lists in all dorms to increase mem· berships. she said. 
-~-----·-~ -~-~­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 1993 

The Observer/Erika Quinn 
Members of the panel on homelessness discuss the ramifications of the problem that is plaguing our nation 
announced Christopher's plan to go to the area. Officials said the trip probably would be scheduled for early December, just before the Dec. 13 deadline for Israel and the J>LO to com­plete arrangements for Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and Jericho. 
The lsrael-PLO agreement, which was signed with consid­erable fanfare in September at the White llouse, could be un­raveling in a dispute over its implementation. 
Negotiators are squabbling over the geographieal bound­aries of Jericho, whether the Palestinians should get a high­way between the West Bank City and Gaza and over the size and scope of the Israeli securi­ty force that will protect some 3,000 Jewish residents of Gaza. 
On top of that, PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction has been implicated in the slay­ing of a Jewish settler, one of seven killed since Israel con­ceded to the PLO administra­tive control of Gaza and Jericho. 
Arafat had renounced terror­ism against the Jewish state and the slaying initially was at­tributed to llamas, a rival fun­damentalist group. Arafat con­demned the killing Saturday but Israeli cabinet ministers said the statement was insul1i­eient. 
Polls show that for the first time a majority of Israelis op­pose the secret deal the Israeli government concluded with Arafat's organization, which also included Israeli recogni­tion of the PLO. 
Palestinian officials said, meanwhile, in Cairo that Habin would meet with Arafat in December. 
Talks over the future of the Golan lleights, the buffer cap­tured by Israel in the 1967 war, are deadlocked. Syria demands recovery of the land while the Habin government has hinted at giving part of it back. 
Demolnlon Man (R) 7:30, 10:00 Ernest Rides Again (PG) 1:15, 3:15. 5:15. 7:15. 9:15 Look Who'a Talking Now (PG13) 1 :30. 3:30. 5:30. 7:30. 9:30 RoboCop Ill (PG13) 2:00. 4:30 The Beverly Hillbillies (PG) 2:00. 4:45. 7:00, 9:15 The Nightmare Before Christmas (PG) 1 00. 3:00. 5:00. 7:00. 9:00 the Three Musketeers (PG) 2:00. 4:30. 7:15. 9:45 
Fleah & Bone(R) 1:45.4:30.7:15. 10:00 Malice (R) 2:45. 5:00. 7:30. 9:30 Rudy (PG) 1:30.4:15. 7:00, 9:45 

Homeless 
continued from page I 
A graduate of the University of Texas with degrees in biol­ogy and chemistry, Wind's business of removing eontami­nants from polluted soil and water with bacteria earned him the distinction of being the first person to perform bio­radiation in Indiana, he said. However, the enterprise col­lapsed after his business part­ner stole $24,000 and his wife, a Notre Dame graduate, subse­quently divorced him. 
After spending months living out of a tent, he overcame inhi­bitions and entered the South Bend Center. 
lie also reiterated his deter­mination to get on his feet again despite losing several jobs because of his situation. 
The panel coincides with Notre Dame Student Government's declaration of this week as Homeless Awareness Week. Event facili­tator Shaheen Goldriek said that the CSC Student Advisory 
Board intends last night's dis­
cussion to be the first of 

due to the conservative leadership of the "me" decade of the 1980's. The panel coincides with Student 
Government's declaration of this week as Homeless Awareness Week. The CSC Student Advisory Board 
monthly round-tables on social

hopes that this discussion will be the first of many monthly roundtable discussions on social issues. 
issues. 


Forum 
continued from page I 
posed center recognizes the need for such a development on the Saint Mary's campus and supports the proposal for the center to be run by the sis­ters of the Holy Cross. 
Possible surveys and petitions may soon be distributed to the student body to measure stu­dent response and support for the proposed center. 
Another discussion at the fo­rum was the new Student Activities Board fee increase from $40 per student during the 1992-92 school year to this year's per student fee of $74.30, according to Jill Hotek, the Student Activities Board Director. 
Approximately one half of the SAB budget has been spent on 16 events so far this year. The turnouts for each event have averaged 124 students, accord­ing to llotek. 
The need for a new student center was also made apparent by students during the forum. 
"The students at Saint Mary's need a constant, 24 hour space to hang out with friends," said senior Joelle Kazmierski. 
Ideas for a new 24 space in­cluded slightly renovating Dalloway's Coffee House and designating an entire noor of Haggar College Center specifi­cally for the use of students. 
lhuvcr~atv of 
Notr·c lldnW 
Int c~r·nalwnd I 
~Jlutly P1·oyntm 
Ill 


Priests 
continued from page l 
cover up the sexual abuse, but today, victims need to be taken very seriously, according to Father Richard McCormick, vis­iting professor of theology. 
"My impression is that when the matter (of sexual abuse in the church) originally surfaced, the bishops conferred and tried to hide it," McCormick said. "I think that right now, there is a sense of need to be totally straightforward." 
This less aggressive and more open stance that Bernardin has advocated in the Chicago Archdiocese, and now is using in his own case, should become the standard in dealing with similar cases, according to McBrien. 
In addition, an independent body, rather than bishops of the diocese should be employed to investigate future charges, he said. 
"I think we need to acknowl­edge the victims and deal with them openly and honestly, with no attacks back and forth," he said. 
Although the straightforward method being employed by the Church is important, the clergy must be on the guard against false accusations, according to Father David Burrell, professor of theology and philosophy. 


INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Information Meeting 
With_ 
Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 17, 1993 4:30PM 216 DEBARTOLO 
Returning students wiiiiJe on hand to answer questions 
"The concern until recently has been that the church has tended to respond with what we can only call a corporate cover-up when dealing with the misdeeds of the clergy," Burrell said. "The concern now seems to shift to how people of repute can be protected." 
"If he (Bernardin) is innocent, the problem is he is tarred for life by the accusation," accord­ing to Lawrence Cunningham, Chairman of the Department of Theology. 
McBrien disagreed, explain­ing that if the charges are dropped, Bernardin's name and reputation would be clear once again. 
"Once a person is found inno­cent, he's innocent," he said. "But obviously, you can't ac­count for what individuals think." 
While the charges against priests are nothing new to the Church, to have a member of the American Catholic hierar­chy implicated in any scandal is clearly a shock. 
"lie's a pioneer and a leader," McBrien said, "In my opinion that's what makes the charges all the more painful." 
The combined effects of re­cent aecusations at such a high level may also add to internal turmoil in the Church, Cunningham said. 
"In my own opinion," he said, "this (recent accusations against priests) is causing a ter­rible morale problem in our clergy as a result of so much suspicion." 

When attempting to solve the long term problem of pe­dophiles and sexual abusers in the priesthood, admissions poli­cies to the seminary should be the first place to look, ac­cording to McBrien. 
"There has been a precipitous decline in enrollment to the seminary," he said. "The temp­tation is strong to look the other way on doubtful candi­dates. They've admitted a lot of people who shouldn't be there for one reason or another." 
While it would be a radical measure, McBrien contends that the problem of sexual abuse in the priesthood will never be solved until the Church eliminates celibacy as a requirement to the priesthood. 
"Right now, the seminaries are drawing from a very thin slice of the population," he said. "Celibacy should be irmlevant. Jesus didn't impose celibacy on the apostles, they were all mar­ried. That rule didn't come along until hundreds of' years later." 
In addition to dealing with the abuse problem, an elimination of the rules would certainly help the church in the current shortage of clergy. 
"We're dealing with a crisis situation," he said. "There's a serious shortage of priests, and it's only getting worse." 





ANGERS, FRANCE 
1994 -95 Academic Year 
"SHOULD I STAY OR SHOULD I GO?" With Professor Paul McDowell 
WEI>NESUAY, NOV.:MIIER 17, 1'1'13 
8:30 I'.M. ROOM 115 O'SIIAUGIINESS\' 
Returning students will he on hand to answer questions 
Tuesday, November 16, 1993 
GREs to be gtven via computer 
Associated Press 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

Students taking the Graduate Record Examination will soon be able to leave their No. 2 pencils at home. 
The Educational Testing Service said today it is swap­ping paper and pencils for computers. 
By the 1996-97 school year, the 400,000 students who an­nually take the test -known as the GRE -will be screened by computer. 
The new tests will also be "adaptive," meaning that stu­dents will get random ques­tions and, based on their an­swers, successive questions will become harder or easier. Correctly answering harder questions will boost scores. 
"This is a huge step in changing the very nature of testing in the future," said Nancy Cole, president-elect of the Princeton-based service that administers 9 million tests annually in the United States and abroad. 
There is no target date for computerizing the SAT, or Scholastic Aptitude Test, which is taken by 1.8 million high school students for their col­lege applications. 
Computerized testing, which 
is being introduced today for 
the GHE on a limited basis, will 
make test taking more conve­
nient and give students instan­
taneous results at the end of 
the exam. The GRE is taken by 
those applying to graduate 
school. 
Instead of registering for one 
of five annual test dates, GRE 
takers will be able to go to 
computer centers to take the 
test on any of more than 150 
days a year. 
The fee for the computerized 
GHE is $93, versus $48 for the 
paper and pencil exam. 





Smoking ban bill sent to Senate 
By KAREN BALL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Smoking would be banned in federal buildings, except in ar­eas equipped with separate ventilation systems, under a bill passed by the House on Monday. 
The bill, sent to the Senate on a voice vote, was pushed by lawmakers who cited an Environmental Protection Agency study this year that said some 3,000 lung cancer deaths a year are caused by second­hand smoke. 
Most air in office buildings is recirculated, said Rep. James Traficant, D-Ohio, so the legis­lation is needed to protect gov­ernment workers and Americans who go there on business. 
Traficant said the bill is still fair to smokers because smok­ing would be legal in desig­nated areas, as long as there is a separate ventilation system that doesn't recirculate the air through the rest of the building. 
But one tobacco state law­maker, Rep. Tim Valentine, D­N.C., said the bill amounts to a prohibition, since it would cost $50 million to put in special ventilation systems in the largest of federal buildings. 
"It would be a complete ban, rather than a reasonable com­promise," he said. 
And Valentine complained Congress would end up ignor­ing the law in the Capitol build­ing and nearby office buildings, where many smokers simply light up in whatever hallway they want. 
Investigation criticizes tactics of FBI in Waco siege 
By CAROLYN SKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The FBI fell victim to a "law enforcement mind-set" in ignoring expert advice and launching a tear-gas assault against a religious cult's com­plex that led to 85 deaths, an outside authority says. 
The FBI could have avoided last spring's debacle near Waco, Texas, if it had heeded its negotiators and behavioral experts who opposed pressure tactics, wrote Alan Stone, a Harvard University professor of law and psychiatry. 
Instead, he wrote, the bureau succumbed to the "gut instinct" of the "law enforcement mind­set, the action-control impera­tive" in dealing with the Branch Davidians, led by David Koresh. 
Stone's report was released Monday, five weeks after the Justice Department, an outside evaluator and nine other 
Have you heard about Communities ND? 
It's a chance for men and women at Notre Dame to ... meet new people ... read and talk about the Sunday Gospels before Mass ... share honest discussion and learn about your faith 
YOU probably know somebody who's in Communities ND already --you can try it too! 

Find out more! 
COME TO THE INFORMATION NIGHT Wednesday, Nov. 17 9:00 -10:00 p.m. Faculty Dining Room (south dining hall) 
refreshments will be served 
SIGN UPS AFfER THANKSGIVING ... NEW COMMUNITIES BEGIN JANUARY 15th!! 
uQUESTIONS?? CALL CAMPUS MINISTRY AT 631-5242 
-
(?MPUS 
MINISID' 
page 5 





Defense budget approved 
By DONNA CASSATA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House approved a $261 billion defense budget Monday that endorses a more restric­tive version of President Clinton's policy on homosexu­als serving in the military. 
Approved by a vote of 273­135, the overall package large­ly tracks President Clinton's military blueprint and post­pones many of the tough deci­sions on cutting weapons and reducing troops in a post-Cold War world. 
The budget for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1st is $2.6 bil­lion less than the amount Clinton proposed and $12 bil­lion below last year's level. 
"This report reflects a well­reasoned and prudent ap­proach for funding defense programs," said Rep. Ron Dellums, D-Calif., of his first military budget since succeed­ing Defense Secretary Les Aspin as House Armed Services Committee chairman. 
But the panel's ranking Republican, Rep. Floyd Spence of South Carolina, said the cuts only represent one tenth of what the Clinton administra­tion plans, and "the next few years we're facing disaster." 

experts issued findings. He said he used their work and con­ducted additional studies to pursue unanswered questions. The department hired him and the other consultants to recom­mend how to deal with similar cases in the future. 
On April 19 after a 1 1/2­month siege, the FBI used an armored vehicle to punch holes in the buildings and poured tear gas through the holes. Shortly thereafter, flames engulfed the complex. 
"Ifyou're really concerned there are 25 innocent children there, then it's never too late to back off," Stone said in an interview Monday, rejecting the notion that "the tragedy was unavoidable." 
The cult residents, including 25 infants and children, died after the fire broke out. Stone conceded that the Branch Davidians set the fire and killed themselves. 
Left unclear was whether the FBI, in urging Attorney General Janet Reno to approve the tear­gas plan, told her "that the agency had rejected the advice of their own experts in behav­ioral science and negotiation, or whether the AG was told that FBI negotiators believed they could get more people out of the compound by negotiation." 
"By the time the AG made her decision, the noose was closed and, as one agent told me, the FBI believed that had 'three options -gas, gas and gas,"' Stone wrote. 


BROTHERS IN GENDER 
"Bridging The Racial Gap" 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1993 7:00PM 
AT 

LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

DR. RAFAEL MENDEZ: Assistant Professor of Psychology at Bronx Community College and the College of New Rochelle; founder and leader of the People's Independent Club in the Bronx. 
DANNY E. SLEDGE: Dean of Students at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo. 
SPONSORED BY THE MULTICULTURAL STUDENT AFFAIRS OFFICE FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE OFFICE AT 634-6847 
~~~~ ----~------------------~-­
page 6 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 16, 1993 



Clinton meets with Chinese leader 
by a Jordanian army helicopter from a border post 270 miles northeast of Amman, after a six-hour land trip from Baghdad. 
Jordan is Iraq's only link with the outside world. Iraqi air­ports are closed by internation­al sanctions imposed after Baghdad's 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
Beaty was arrested April 25 when he strayed across the· border after checking an oil well in northern Kuwait. On May 3, a Baghdad court sen­tenced him to eight years in prison for trespassing. 
Beaty, 45, of Mustang, Okla., was head of exploration for California-based Santa Fe Oil Co. llis release had been sought 


Journalists released, 
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
When Chinese President Jiang Zemin meets U.S. President Clinton on Friday, it will be the first meeting after nearly five years marred by emotional debate over human rights, arms sales and political systems. 
Much is riding on the one­hour meeting in Seattle, where the leaders of 14 nations are gathering for the largest ever Asian-Pacific summit under the auspices of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group. 
The last time the presidents of China and the United States met formally was in early 1989, before the start of student pro­democracy demonstrations that China violently repressed, pushing U.S.-Chinese relations into a decline. 
Mutual trust reached another low in August when the United States, rejecting private Chinese assurances, tailed a Chinese freighter it suspected of carrying banned chemicals and forced a search that proved the ship clean. 
Now, both sides are hoping for a breakthrough in attitudes and a commitment to frequent, high-level contacts. 
"Their coming meeting will not be a negotiating session," Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen told a news conference last week. He instead empha­sized intangible achievements, such as better understanding and trust. 

But the two sides must move quickly to resolve disputes in trade and arms proliferation, with deadlines nearing and skeptics in both countries de­manding proof that friendly engagement is the best ap­proach. 
Under an agreement signed last year, China is supposed to dismantle a set of import barri­ers by Dec. 31. A textile agree­ment also expires then and the United States is threatening to impose quotas on Chinese tex­tiles if a new agreement isn't reached. 
Clinton is under pressure from U.S. companies to ease sanctions imposed in September that restrict high­technology exports to China, including satellites. He imposed the sanctions because intelli­gence indicated China exported missile technology to Pakistan in violation of an agreement. Washington wants China to ei­ther prove the findings wrong or promise the sales won't be repeated. 
China, meanwhile, wants an end to the new sanctions and some left over from 1989, such as restrictions on sales to its military and police. It also wants its low-tariff trade status assured, rather than subject to wrenching annual debate. 
Clinton and Jiang are unlikely to get into detailed discussions on these issues. That will be left to Cabinet-level officials who also will be meeting in Seattle Wednesday through Saturday. 
China, anxious not to be seen as making concessions during the summit, has already prof­fered a good-will gift by open­ing the door to prison visits by the International Committee of the Red Cross. This is some­thing the United States long sought but China rejected as a violation of its sovereignty. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher on Monday said the move did not show enough progress in human rights to ensure China's low-tariff trad­ing status. 
"As you know, the president's decision called for overall sig­nificant progress, and overall significant progress will not be found in a single step such as permitting the Red Cross to inspect the prisons," Christopher said. "Nevertheless, that is a step that we value and we look for more like it." 
China believes that American businessmen and time are on its side in many areas of dis­pute. It believes that if its econ­omy continues to grow at the current 13 percent pace and the purchasing power of its 1.2 billion people keeps rising, businesses will force Washington to lift sanctions and put the MFN issue to rest. 
ByGREGMYRE Associated. Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan 
Guerrillas released two Western journalists Monday who had been taken captive a week ago while covering a fierce battle outside Kabul. 
John Jennings of The Associated Press and Terrence White of Agence France­Presse were in good spirits and said they had been treated weJl once the ~uerrillas believed they were journalists and not spies. 
Jennings was treated at the Red Cross hospital in the capi­tal of Kabul for a slight foot injury. 
The two got caught in the crossfire between Prime Minister Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-e-Islami faction and President Burhanuddin Rabbani's forces near the strategic garrison town ofTagab. 
Islamic guerrilla groups last year ousted the Communist government installed by the former Soviet Union. The fac­tions then turned their guns on each other and some 10,000 people have been killed in and around Kabul over the past 18 months. 
Jennings, an American, and White, a New Zealander, had 

were accused of espionage 
been traveling with Rabbani's forces Nov. 8th when Hekmatyar's fighters overran their position about 40 miles northeast of the Afghan capi­tal. 
"The fighting got heavy and something hit my foot," Jennings said. "There was a hole in my boot and blood ooz­ing out." 
The government troops fled but White stayed behind to bandage Jennings' foot and to­gether they tried to escape. Hezb-e-lslami troops stopped them. 
The guerrillas initially ac­cused the two of spying, roughed them up and stole $700 and a camera from Jennings. 
But Jennings said that once their identities were known "we were treated not only in a humane way, but in a friendly manner." 
"My dressing was changed almost every day and we were fed well, if not better than the mujahedeen," Jennings said. Guerrillas of all factions call themselves "mujahedeen," or "Islamic holy warriors." 
For two weeks the warring factions have waged a fierce fight for Tagab. At least 250 people, mostly civilians, are believed to have been killed in the fighting. 


Yeltsin threatened by possibility ofcommunist comeback 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY manded the loyalty of 7 percent about one-third were unde­forms. not want to hold early presiden­Associa1ed Press of the electorate, according to cided, the poll indicated. But Yeltsin said he could not tial elections in June, as he had the poll commissioned by the Still, Yeltsin was quoted as ban all pro-communist parties earlier promised. MOSCOW Itogi current-affairs television saying that he was concerned from taking part in elections 
Boris Yeltsin says he is wor­show and released Sunday. about a resurgence of commu­because that could cause social But Izvestia quoted Yeltsin as ried that communists or neo­nists or neo-fascists. tension and riots. saying he has not made a final fascists might try to seize power Reforms parties were leading "As long as bolshevism or The communists continue to decision about the presidential by force, a newspaper reported the communists, but all three fascism are alive, there will be enjoy the support of officials elections. He indicated that a fi­Monday. were drawing little support. a danger of a forced seizure of and others who thrived under nal decision would be made by 
The report came a day after The most popular party, the power," the newspaper Izvestia the Soviet state. Some older the parliament to be elected in an opinion poll showed the pro-reform Russia's Choice, got quoted Yeltsin as saying. people, anxious for the order December, the newspaper re­Communist Party doubling its the support of 12 percent of and stability of the Soviet sys­ported. support in the past week, jump­those surveyed. Its nearest ri­Yeltsin banned several hard­tem, also back the communists. Because the parliament is ex­ing to among the top three par­val, the reformist Bloc of Three, line groups involved in last The Communists' jump in pected to be pro-Yeltsin, it ties in the race for December's was the favorite of 8 percent. month's political turmoil in an support could reflect voters' would likely back any move to parliamentary elections. The rest of those questioned effort to reduce opposition to disappointment over Yeltsin's drop early presidential elec­
The Communist Party com-supported other parties, and his economic and political re-statement last week that he did tions. 
Iraq releases U.S. worker, Forces trained in new rescue procedure 
By NEJLA SAMMAKIA have the ability to respond with largely to their bases and U.N. Associated Press speed. Heavy forces are not headquarters in central

had been held six months 
normally trained to operate Mogadishu. MOGADISHU, Somalia within cities -a narrow envi­The United States has an­
Associated Press on humanitarian grounds on 
In the desert at the edge of ronment with buildings around nounced plans to resume its pa­account of heart problems. 
Mogadishu, U.S. forces were us." trol of Mogadishu's main
AMMAN, Jordan In Mustang, Jill Robison, a trained Monday in a new pro­streets soon in an attempt toU.S. oil worker Kenneth friend of the family, said cedure for rescuing troops On Monday, M-1 Abrams and secure passage of humanitarian 
Beaty arrived in Amman Beaty's wife had flown to 
caught in fighting in the capi­Bradley fighting vehicles roared convoys and U.N. suppliesMonday after he was released Washington where she hopes to tal's narrow streets. through the desert as an around the city. 
from Iraqi custody following a be reunited with her husband The exercise was developed unarmed Alpha scout plane Aidid has cautioned againstpersonal appeal by his senator. Tuesday. 
after an Oct. 3 clash left 18 U.S. flew overhead, responding to a American troops going out inBeaty, looking healthy but "It's just really a blessing. 
soldiers and about 300 Somalis mock call for help from a the streets again. 
tired, arrived at Marka Civil Everyone is real thankful to dead. Pakistani unit in Mogadishu. 
Airport near Jordan's capital at God," Robison said. 
Army Maj. Ed Donnelly, an Since the Oct. 3 clash with Journalists were taken to theabout 9 p.m., escorted by Sen. Beaty's release was widely operations officer for the exer­forces Joyal to Somali warlord exercise site by helicopter fromDavid Boren, 0.-0kla. seen as a goodwill gesture by cise, said that in the Oct. 3 bat­Gen. Mohammed Farrah Aidid, U.N. headquarters to avoidThe two men were flown in Saddam Hussein's regime. 
tle, American troops "didn't American troops have kept Mogadishu's tense streets. 

Congratulations, 



SARAH 
on your 2Jst Birthday! 
We are veryproud of you! 
.v· We hope you have fun in Madrid next semester: 


Love, Mom, Dad & Lisa 


OHN DENSMORE, DRUMMER FOR THE DOORS LIVE IN CONCERT! 
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7 p.m. 
$12 Reserved Seating Price includes admission to an infor­mal book signing reception for his book 

"Riding on the Storm: The Doors, The Sixties, & Now" 
Tickets available at Morris Civic 
(219) 235-9190and 1-800-537-6415. 


~~---------­





BUSINESS 
Tuesday, Novem~t"r 16, 1993 Page 7 
Clinton pressillg to pick up needed votes for NAFTA 
By TERENCE HUNT 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Struggling for votes with time running out, President Clinton leaned on Democrats opposing a trade agreement with Mexico Monday and tried to hold Republican supporters. The White House tried to pick up farm-state votes with a wheat deal. 
Two days before the show­down, the outcome rested with 42 House members who said they were still undecided. Both sides contended they would have the votes to win. 
Clinton argued there was nothing to lose by giving the agreement a chance. "If all the nay sayers turn out to be (cor­rect}, the treaty gives us a right to withdraw in six months," he said. 
"Why don't we just wait and see whether we're right or they're right?" Clinton said in a speech to owners of small busi­nesses. "Ring the phones up," he implored, seeking to increase pressure on fence-sit­ting lawmakers. 
The White House claimed to have picked up 15 votes over the weekend. 
An Associated Press count found 206 lawmakers saying they would vote against the 

agreement or were likely to do so. On the other side, 186 law­makers said they would vote for it; 42 said they were undecided. Clinton needs 218 votes to win. 
Congressional sources said the administration struck a deal with several congressmen from Oklahoma and Texas to take action against Canadian wheat imports in exchange for their votes. 
The administration agreed to impose quotas on durum wheat if Canada does not change its pricing policies within 60 days, the sources said. Rep. Larry Combest, R-Texas, cited that agreement in announcing his support for Clinton Monday. 
"They've done a deal with everybody but working people," charged House Whip David Bonior, D-Mich., a leader of the anti-NAFTA forces. But he added, "I think we're going to 
win.'' 
On the Capitol's West Front, several hundred civil service union members, mostly from New York state, rallied against the trade pact. 
"Dump this NAFTA," the crowd chanted. 
Many carried placards depict­ing an oversized monkey labeled "NAFTA" perched on the shoulders of a frowning, hardhat-wearing worker. 
AFL-CIO President Lane 
Profiles of the NAFTA partners 
l!iiiE§ UNITED STATES: Population: 248,709,873 {1990 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $5.1trillion 
{2nd 114 1993) 
Gross National Product, per capita: $21,800 Literacy rate: 97% (1991) 
McANADA: Population: 27,409,000 {1992 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $560 billion {1992) Gross Domestic Product, per capita: $20,433 (1992) Literacy rate: 99% (1991) 

~~~MEXICO: 
Population: 90,007,000 (1991 est.) Gross Domestic Product: $236 billion 
{1990) 
Gross Domestic Product, per capita: $2,680 (1990) Literacy rate: 88% (1989) 
Source: U.S. Trade Representative, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Statistics Canada, The World Almanac and Book of Facts 1993 


APNJm. J. Castello Kirkland lashed out at Clinton for his extraordinary promise to defend Republicans who are 

Donation helps boost Entrepreneur Club 
By KATHRYN QUAILE 
Business Writer 
Expansion and growth are the key points on the agenda of the Entrepreneur Club for the 1993/94 school year. 
A check for an undisclosed amount was presented at the first meeting of the year by Jean Thorne of the Coleman­Fannie May Candies Foundation to help facilitate the expansion of the Club. 
Jean Thorne and John Hughes of the Coleman-Fannie May Candies Foundation were the featured guest speakers at the meeting held on Tuesday, November 2. 
As heads of the Coleman-Fannie May Candies 

Foundation, Thorne and was the advice he gave to aspir­Hughes have contributed over ing entrepreneurs. Hughes also $30 million to cancer research, added that he would like to see housing projects and scholar­entrepreneurship and self­ships and an additional $30 employment taught in the col­million to colleges and universi­lege curriculum. ties to encourage entrepreneur­The meeting was opened by ship education. Club president Gene Sheikh 
Speaking on her experience presenting a report concerning as an entrepreneur, Thorne the growth and expansion of stressed that an entrepeneur is the Club. " one who takes the risk, has Sheikh also reviewed plans the control, and reaps the for the "Committee for the E." reward." According to Sheikh, the pur­
Following Thorne's presenta­pose of this committee is mainly tion, Hughes spoke about his redesign. It's goals are to pro­experience as a Certified Public duce a new operational state­Accountant with a South Bend ment and figure out the club's accounting firm and then as an position in the year 1999. independent contractor CEO The next Entrepreneurs Club with Fannie May Candies. meeting will be held on 
"Take things you find and Tuesday, November 30 in the turn them into an opportunity," Notre Dame Room at 7 p.m. 
attacked in congressional races because they voted for the trade agreement. 
"The president has clearly abdicated his role as leader of the Democratic Party," Kirkland declared. 
The labor leader also dis­missed the notion that a loss would wound Clinton's presi­dency -a frequent argument by NAFTA supporters in recent days. 
"That is nonsense," Kirkland said. "I think the best thing that could happen for the Clinton administration is for this agree­ment to be voted down." He said that would allow Clinton to focus on issues "to put people first for a change." 
Undecided lawmakers who dined with Clinton Sunday night told him there had been "a sea change out in their districts" and that public opinion is mov­ing toward support of the agreement, White House press secretary Dee Dee Myers said. 
"As (U.S. Trade Representative) Mickey Kantor said yesterday, we expect 'a Clinton landslide' -it's going to be 218 votes, maybe 219, but that's all we need to win," Myers said. 
"I think it will be a narrow victory for NAFTA," said House Speaker Thomas Foley, D­Wash. "It's based on evidence of things moving in that direc­tion.... We are not there yet, but we're moving in that direc­tion, very clearly." 
The trade agreement would phase out tariffs and other bar­riers over 15 years. Supporters say it will create a huge market for American exports, resulting in new jobs. Opponents say American workers will lose their paychecks as their compa­nies close up and rush to Mexico for cheaper labor and less stringent environmental rules. 
Clinton scheduled eight 30­minute one-on-one meetings with legislators, mostly Democrats now listed as "no" votes. 
The president also was work­ing the telephones, largely to secure Republican votes. One official said the White House was counting on 120 from the GOP. 
On the sensitive issue of pro­tecting Republicans who sup­port the trade agreement, the White House said Clinton would defend their votes but would not actually campaign for them. 
That would still make it possi­ble for Clinton to stand up for a Republican on the NAFTA issue even while endorsing and cam­paigning for a Democrat who opposed it. 


Economy on upswing 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Industrial production in October recorded its biggest increase in nearly a year and business inventories remain lean through September, rais­ing hopes the long decline in manufacturing employment may be ending. 
A surge in auto manufactur­ing helped boost output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities by 0.8 percent last month, the best since last November, the Federal Reserve said Monday. 
"Most industries are increasing steadily, and that's better than we could say six months ago," said economist Priscilla Trumbull of The 
WEFA Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., forecasting firm. "Growth has become much more dependable." 
The Federal Reserve said auto production jumped 7. 3 percent in October and 3.9 per­cent in September after four months of either declines or no change. But even excluding motor vehicles, production rose 
0.3 percent in September and 
0.4 percent in October. 
Trumbull said the consisten­cy of the advances eventually should help persuade manufac­turers to start hiring perma­nent employees. Fearing a relapse since the recession, they've relied on overtime and temporary help to keep pro­duction up. 


Classes give employees opportunity to advance off the clock 
By NANCY ARMOUR 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
When quitting time rolls around, employees at some of Indiana's best-known compa­nies trade in the corporate cul­ture for the college classroom. 
On-site classes were offered for the first time this year by Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis. USA Group Inc. and Boehringer Mannheim Corp. have offered on-site classes this fall, and Eli 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Lilly and Co. and PSI Energy will begin classes in January. 
The classes offer employees a convenient opportunity to pur­sue their education without leaving the workplace, said Susan Conner, spokeswoman for USA Group. 
"They're giving people the chance to improve themselves so they can advance their careers," she said. 
The biggest advantage for both employees and employers is the convenience of the class­es. 
Employees at USA Group or Boehringer who wanted to take night classes at IUPUI used to have to leave work 10 or 15 minutes early to get downtown in time. 
With on-site classes, employ­ees can work their entire shift and sometimes have a few min­utes to go home or eat before class. 
Boehringer and USA Group even have program administra­tors pick up textbooks at IUPUI 


BUSINESS BRIEFS 
so employees don't have to ven­ture to the school at all. 
"There are no negatives to it, only plusses, everybody bene­fits," said James East, associate dean of IUPUI's School of Liberal Arts. "The students benefit because it's so conve­nient. The businesses benefit because the students know more and are more enlight­ened." 
East has developed several programs over the years to attract new students, including Learn and Shop, which offers courses at shopping malls. 
The business and industry program is just one more way to get people back into the classroom, East said. While many older people may want to earn a college degree, they often are reluctant about enter­ing the younger, campus atmos­phere. 
"They feel they would be inti­mated by the bright young things on campus," he said. 


November 15, 1993 
3677.52 f---"'---+--'-----1 
-6.99 


,...--/""'\  
('-'  llo... """"'­ ,.,r  'r'  
~  v \  ~  
....  ¥-'  


3725 3675 3625 3575 3525 3475 3425 
8/1/93 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 1211/93 

.-----------------------------------------~~---------------·--·---~-­





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin llardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough  Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman  
Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya johnson  Systems Manager .............................. Parrick Barth  
Photo Editor .................................jake Peters  OTS Director.. .............................. Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor ............. jennifer Habrych  Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eirher institution. The news i11o reponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lencrs and Inside Columm. present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observ<r. Viewpoint space i> available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all reader!~. The free c:xprcs!lion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Adverrising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Take the "semester sobriety challenge" 
Dear Editor:  He wanted me to live, otherwise  cessful, but did die due to his  solved through drinking'? What  cared more about me trying to  
I lello. My name is Sean and  I wouldn't have made the mis­ heavy drinking. And the name  good comes from "drinking  help me defeat my addiction.  
I'm an alcoholic. I've only told  take. I had help to overcome  Ernest Hemingway does come  responsibly'?"  McDonald and other people  
a few of my friends this deep  my addiction, and that's what it  to mind, also a heavy drinker  He even goes so far as to  who feel the same way he does  
dark secret about myself. I was  is, an addiction. It took a long  and successful and committed  compare SUDS to a terrorist  feel they drink responsibly, but  
seduced by the "beauty" of  time and I'm still fighting it  suicide when drunk.  group. Please, why don't we  can anyone who "drinks to get  
aleohol at the tender age of  every time I'm at a party. I'm  McDonald also says, "We are  stop drinking and get back to  buzzed" deny that it takes more  
eleven. I became an alcoholic  still fighting every day of my  constan d to vicious  the real world. They are not  to get buzzed now then when  
at the age of twelve and  life.  terrorists. They are trying to  you first started. In ten years  
stopped when I was thirteen  I'm glad that there are people  look out for the welfare of  it'll take that much more to get  
years old. I want to respond to  out there who are against  Notre Dame students. I sure as  buzzed than that first time. If  
the letter to the editor from  drinking in general. In this  hell wish that there was some  alcohol isn't supposed to be all  
William McDonald (The  society where drinking is glori­ group like that when I first  that bad, then why does the  
Observer, Oct. 14).  fied in commercials and in  started drinking. I wish that  human body build up a toler­ 
lie claims that "Alcohol  magazine ads it is nice to know  there was a group of people  ance to it'?  
Awareness Week" is nothing  that there are people out there  who wanted to humiliate me  I support SUDS and I support  
bm "Puritanical propaganda."  who believe that you don't need  every time I got caught getting  "Alcohol Awareness Week" if it  
I support this week, I support  to drink to have fun.  drunk. I know in junior high  can educate the people of this  
educating the young of this  Nowhere in the ads do the  school there aren't too many  country of the dangers of alco­ 
country of the dan~owrs of alco­ manufacturers tell of the dan­ organizations such as this, but  hol. I support an "Alcohol  
hol. I can say with experience  gers of alcohol. Nowhere in the  it would have been nice to have  Awareness Month" if it will  
behind me that the  ads does it show the poor drunk  one.  show that drinking isn't what it  
euphemisms. "I drink to be  in the corner of the room not  I get the impression that  is in the commercials.  
social," and "I drink to get  surrounded by the beautiful  McDonald would like to have  If Mr. McDonald can drink  
buzzed" are nothing but a  women. Not once in any of  Drinking 101 as a class to "pre­ responsibly, then I challenge  
crock. I used them; I believed  those ads do the manufacturers  pare or condition people to use  him and anyone who feels the  
them. I didn't think there was  show what the next morning is  alcohol responsibly". He com­ same to not drink until the end  
....~·thing wrong with drinking.  like.  pares learning how to drink  of the semester. I want to see if  
I thougi.t I was cool. I thought I  Alcohol does damage most  with learning how to drive a  you can do it. I fight this  
was popular. I found out the  every major organ in the body,  car. An interesting analogy to  hideous addiction every day of  
hard way that it's a cold world  primarily the liver. Granted it  say the least, but there is no  my life. I want these people to  
, out. there for a teenage alco­ has been proven that alcohol  significant comparison.  experience this fight. I want  
holic.  taken in modest doses, meaning  Learning how to drive does not  them to know that there is no  
I lost many friends due to my  a 4 oz. glass of wine once a day,  impair judgment if done for an  such thing as drinking respon­ 
drinking. I became a royal pain  does decrease the chances of  extended period of time. If I  sibly, drinking to get buzzed, or  
in the ass when I was drunk. I  heart trouble. It doesn't mean.  drive for a lengthy amount of  drinking to be social. It's an  
would tell people what really  "Drink up and get blasted.  time I never feel like I did when  addiction. It's a narcotic, a  
annoyed me about them. I told  Don't worry, you'll live longer."  I was drunk. I still fail to see  drug. I want them to know that  
them in the most rude way I  It also doesn't mean that if  the connection between the  there is a danger, that it's not  
knew. If someone got me mad  you miss a day you can catch  two.  everything it's cracked up to be.  
when I was drunk I would tell  up by drinking for the entire  People who "drink responsi­ There is no difference  
anyone who would listen what  weekend. The reason that  bly" always say that there are  between being drunk and being  
secrets I had and if I didn't  SUDS left that out of the table  exceptions to the rule. I am an  buzzed. In both cases you're  
have any I would make them  tents is because that one factor  exception. I disprove the fact  intoxicated. So I challenge Mr.  
up. I hit rock bottom hard.  doesn't outweigh the rest of the  that not every one can drink  McDonald and his supporters to  
I finally decided to stop when  effects that alcohol has on the  responsibly. I was not a stu­ raise your soda cans and drink  
an attempt at suicide failed. I  human body.  dent of the "Course on Getting  to another week of sobriety.  
thank God that I didn't succeed.  There will always be success­ Drunk Responsibly" McDonald  After all, "It's only beer and I  
I thank I lim that I was totally  ful people that we can use as  diatribes stating what 'prob­ would try to make me believe  can live without it!"  
blasted when I tried, and took  examples of heavy drinkers and  lems' alcohol brings about."  that my parents and friends  SEAN GEARY  
an overdose of Vitamin C  still be very successful. One  Can he provide any "diatribes"  didn't are about me because  Freshman  
instead of aspirin. I knew that  example used in the letter was  stating what good comes from  they didn't "condition me to  Stanford llall  
Edgar Allan Poe. He was sue- alcohol? What problems are  drinking." I think that they  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  
"IAIHO 15 ~MI/.K/3N, 


I !<NOlA/ A L.OTa:. YOU HAV& 
!Aitu, I/11 MANY ?HINGS, or 

tuHY~~US8INEV~ 
GR£WWORJ<.tfJ/

P./AV8RW fROM TH8 lHR/313
C1JJR&e, f3UTMeET a:.AU-,1/11
!3e&N A5KIN6 YOUR5i3/..V&S, 

PRINCIPtbS or 7HEMI/../<l3N
18/JLE' A 5U~VIVOR.. AFT&!<. A 

()<IM& PAY5.' 
?HISGffliUStuHO CR&­
!Ills' 98-ca.JNT!N/?ICTM&NT 

CO!)t.' ANI?tUHAT'S ?H& CO/?P 


tV!RY60PY P0&51T.'
A?W A Netuaawa:. 
IW/? A 6-ca.JNT Pt..eA 
~,....,.?it fiNANCIAL-IN~­
8AR6AIN, 1/119/U­
1/ I I I II
H&R& -ANI?WITH $1 BIWON 7D SHOW FOR IT.'-.........._____ 
'A
man has only to murder a series ofwives in a new way to become 
known to millions of people who have never heard of Homer.' 


Robert Lynd 





ACCENT ­
1uesday, November 16, 1993 page 9 
Densmore opens doors to the sixties 

By Jennifer Abbate 
Accent Writer 
John Densmore. drummer and founding member of the Doors, is coming on stage to South Bend Wednesday, November 17, 1993, 7:00 p. m., at the Morris Civic Auditorium. For $12, reserved seating only, audience mem­hers will witness Densmore's presentation "Riding On The Storm: The Doors, The Sixties, & Now" and receive admission to an informal book signing reception. 
Although the Doors split in 1971, their music and story has not only shaped but has also re­
' I f the doors of percep­
tion were cleansed, everything would appear to man as infinite.' 
William Blake 

mained a large part of the American music scene. Exploding the charts with songs such as "Light My Fire" and "L.A. Woman," the Doors' music can be heard across as many college campuses today as during the 1960's. 
Through his music, lecture, and video presentation, Densmore wW shed light on a world wide fascination with the Doors as he explores his path from a teenage musician in the 60's to his present life during the 90's as an actor and writer. 
During past performances, at universities such as the University of Maine and Claremont College, Densmore has focused on the legendary singer, Jim Morrison, and the Doors' music. 
Analysis of excerpts from his book, "Riders on the Storm: My Life with Jim Morrison and the Doors," which Rolling Stone called "The first Doors biogra­phy that feels that it was writ­ten for the right reasons," are a major part of his performance. 
Writing this book, Densmore was moved to discuss his confu­sion and bumpy path as a member of the Doors. In response to Jim Morrison's death due to alcohol and drugs, Densmore has experienced a range of emotions such as pain, anger, and guilt. 
He has traveled a long road 
Photo courtesy Copeland Bovee Productions 
John Densmore will present "Riding On The Storm: The Doors, The Sixties, & Now" Wednesday, November 17 at Morris Civic Auditorium. 
in coming to terms with his anger at Jim Morrison for his self-destructive behavior and has experienced guilt for not helping Morrison. 
Similar reactions to Morrison's untimely death have been expressed by the remain­ing two band members as well. "Too bad nobody talked to each other in our organization," Densmore writes. 
Morrison, having been like a brother to the Doors' members, was and still is a source of pride to the group. The Doors never would have gotten as far as they did musically without all four band members con­tributing their talents to the band. 
When people bring up Jim Morrison's name, the legend, myth, and mystery which sur­rounds the name often inter­venes with people's understanding as to whom Jim Morrison was and what the Doors stood for musically. Wednesday night, as in his pre­vious presentations, and inter­views, Densmore will combat the druggie, womanizing image which is often the only way the Doors are viewed. 
Moving away from the media's portrayal of Morrison as a drugged out rock star, Densmore move towards the human side of Morrison. 
Densmore talked about how the band got it's name. Morrison, who had been a film student at UCLA, had used William Blake's phrase, "If the doors of perception were cleansed everything would ap­pear to man as infmite." 
Morrison had also wanted, believe it or not, the Doors to be in suits. Densmore also referred to Morrison as a "kind southern sweetheart." 
Aside from the harshness, the media has scorned on Morrison's drug habit, Densmore has also combated the romanticized view of Morrison's life. He describes Oliver Stone's movie as "exag­gerated" and "about one-third of it is fiction." 
Densmore )las explained in the past that he has had mixed emotions about Stone's movie, "The Doors." "It's Oliver Stone's movie and I love him for mak­ing it, but he was in Vietnam during the 60's." 
Yet, according to Densmore, "It was more what he thought what it might be like to be Jim and have all those girls." Hollywood has glorified the fast paced lifestyle of Morrison through his drug habit and womanizing. Contrary to the way Stone's movie portrayed 
'The music syn­
chronicity there was 
really tight after six 
years, and I hope some­
day we do some more, 
but not with a singer.' 
John Densmore 
Morrison at the end of the movie as a "young James Dean...looking beautiful," Morrison in truth did not appear to be so healthy. After destroying, not only his body, but also his soul with drugs, "He looked bad." 
Looking ahead to the future, since Densmore, unlike Morrison, is on "the long path," he hopes to reunite with Manzarek and Kriegar instru­mentally. "The music syn­chronicity there was really tight after six years, and I hope someday we do some more, but not with a singer." 
Hence, as Densmore uses his stage appearance as a time to reflect upon his own experi­ences as a Door's member, his memories, and journey from the 60's to the 90's, he invites his audience inside the lives of the musical group and genera­tion which Hollywood and the media cannot possibly do jus­tice too. 
Life ofAfrican leader captured "Lumumba: Death of a Proplie~' 
By Patrice Miller Saint Ma 's Accent Editor 
P
atrice Lumumba found­ed the Congolese National Movement, less then two years before it rose to power in the Congo of Africa, and remained in power for only twelve months. Despite Lumumba's brief rise and fall to power, he became one of Africa's legendary figures of modern history. 
On Wednesday November 17, Lumumba's life will be depicted in a film presented by the Notre Dame African Student's Association. The film 
"Lumumba: Death of a Prophet will be shown at 7 p.m. in room 140 Debartolo. Admission will be free. 
"The reason for the fllm fes· tival is to increase the aware-. ness of Africa; its issues and realities," said Guillaume Zounlome, the President of the Notre Dame African Student Association, 
Lumumba, during his twelve month rise and fall to power in 1960, made enough of an im· pression on everyone to not only make people upset, but also to cause his capture by the militia ·and murder three days later. 
The core concepts that the movie covers are democratiza~ tion and governance, and rein­terpreting the colonial experi~ ence of Africa.Lumumba is remembered for his struggle and determination for ti;'eedom~ 
The film is not a convention• al biography, but a study o( how his biography was not only distorted but erased by the pol· ides of the time. Film maker Raoul Peck made the movie in the form of a meditation taken from photographs and news­reels from that time. · 
The movie about Lumumba is· the second of four films in 
the African Film Fall Festival, 
and ip 69 minutes long in 
f1nmch with English s:ubtitles. 
AcconUng·to Zounlome. the ··turnout fpr the film about Luniumba is expected to be 
good. . . 
"Luniumba, in Africa,· i~ a 
great political figure, That is 
the o.Q¢ th~tthey will definitely 
.come to see,'' said Zounlome. 
The film serie$ is alsospon~ 
sored by the Department o 
ModeptLanguages ~t Saint 
Mary's •!Y cone:ge;· <Mt'" ·and 
Educational Media. All ofthe 
fllms will be followed by diseuse 
sions. 


Cultural Corner 
by Geraldine Hamilton Assistant Accent Editor 

Joseph Stella's art has an incredible varied nature which emerged during the modernist era of the early 20th century, as well as throughout his life­time. He moved from style to style, mixed media, and paint­ed simultaneously in different manners. The exhibition o Stella's Madonnas and related works, which will be on dis­play at the Suite Museum o Art October 31 to January 2, 1994 reveals the artist's unique contribution to modern art in the United States. 
Every aspect of Stella's life added to his personalized modernism. Born in 1877 in the village of Murano Lucano, near Naples, Italy, Stell emi­grated to the United States in 1896. Eventually, he attended the New York School of Art, where he studied under William Meritt Chase, who instilled in him an appreciation for the art of Hals, Velasquez, and Manet. 
From 1900 to 1910 Stella produced precisely rendered, realistic drawings of immi­grants. Yet, a visit to the land­mark exhibition of Italian Futurism at the Galerie Bernheim-Jeune in 1912 made an indelible impression on the young artist. Upon his return to New York, Stella fully absorbed the Futurist's glorifi­cation of the dynamism o modern technology and indus­try. 
Stella, however, refused to be restricted to one artistic style. The artist's work ranged from exquisite silverpoint por­traits, to meticulously ren­dered botanical studies and abstract collages, which revealed his delight in pure texture and color. 
At the opposite pole were his ambitious, symbolic canvas in which representational imagery, religious icons, and private symbols were blended in his own intricate manner. For Stella, flowers, fruits, and birds had dual roles as natural creatures and as metaphors for art, religion, and spiritual and natural fertility. 
This motif can be seen in the 
"Virgin of the Rosel and Lily," 
1922 with the fruit and the 
birds which surround the 
Virgin. The complex interplay 
of the curves relates the 
Madonna to the white lily at 
her side, a symbol of chastity. 
Since his death in 1946, 
Stella has been recognized as 
a leading figure in the origins 
of American modernism. He 
mastered many of the most 
innovative tendencies that 
transformed American art in 
the early 20th century, but 
always brought to them a dis­
tinctive vision. 
Jr---~~-----~-------~ --~-~---------:----­
.. 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November r6, 1993
-

Colt's early weakness on offense has been detrimental 
By STEVE HERMAN offense has been the biggest drive in the closing minutes. The Colts have been outscored better football overall, yet we Associated Press problem. "The positive factor through­by 65 points this season, and have to score points. We're not "We haven't been in too many out the year has been whenever first-quarter deficits account turning the ball over, we're in INDIANAPOLIS ball games where we've put the we get down by two touch­for 56 of those 65 points. On the ball game right up until the 
The Indianapolis Colts' first­pressure on the opposing downs or so we do make a play Sunday. the Colts had season final eight minutes. We're def­quarter stats tell a story coach team," Marchibroda said to get back into the game," lows in total plays (49). total initely doing a much better job Ted Marchibroda doesn't want Monday. "We scored 3-0 to Marchibroda said. "It's that offense (215 yards), net passing now once we get into the plus-to hear. begin with, and the Jets come second one where we seem to (123 yards) and time of posses­20 area," Marchibroda said. 
One touchdown, two field right back and they're up 7-3 have the problem, either stop­sion (23:09). Defensively. they "It's like, somebody asked me goals. and the pressure continues to ping them or us making it had season worsts in first the question, 'What's the dif­Not in Sunday's 31-17 loss to be on us." offensively to tie the game up or downs allowed (27), total plays ference between us and maybe the New York Jets, though. Indianapolis fell behind 24-10, to go ahead. (69), total offense (458), rushing the Jets?' I think the difference That's over all nine games this closed within 24-17 and had "We seem to be fighting back, attempts (38), net rushing yards is the Jet~ are an experienced season, and the lone touchdown the Jets b11cked up on their own but we just can't make the play (202) and time of possession football team who added on was on a return. No wonder the 2-yard line before Boomer the second time on either side (36:51). through free agency. We're a Colts' early meekness on Esiason directed a 98-yard TD of the ball." "Offensively, we're playing younger football team," he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
SEAN AND  Need one BOSTON COLLEGE  LITTLE WHITE BUTT  
NOTICES  LOST Gold Heart locket outside JACC after USC rally 1 0/22.  BRETTIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!I  TICKETS  STUDENT TICKET. Call Kerri at x2635 to hear my pathetic, helpless  UP IN THE AIR!llll  
EXTREME personal value.  voice, and the whiny, squeaky way I  Quality Copies, Quickly  
Help! Anyone NJ or NY bound for Thanksgiving? I'll help w/ gas tolls,  If found PLEASE call X2485  FOR RENT  MY FRIEND ... Please sell me your BC GA's ...  answer the phone with, "HIIIIIII."  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  
whatever. Elaine 42342.  x1653  I HAVE  BILLY JOEL TICKETS  631-COPY  
Typing  WANTED  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS  2 TIX FOR BILLY JOEL CONCERT FRIDAY, NOV. 19 IN CHICAGO  
287-4082  (219) 291-7153  CALL NORM AT x1179 ASAPIII  SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS  
Wanted: 1(or 2) Stds. to share 6  FOR SALE:  FSU & BC TIXS.  LONDON AND ROME. TRAVEL TO  
Professional Typing  bedrm house on ND Ave across  Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20  235-3394  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  W.EUROPE.COURSESIN  
Dissertations, Term Papers  from ND apts 2nd sem.  3 stds  Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­ PHOTO, HIST, LIT,SOC, BIO.  
Reasonable Rates  there already; rent & util 200/mth.  end 616-699-7137  $$Need BOSTON COLL GA's$$  DESPERATELY NEED  MEETING LIBRARY AUD.  
2n-7406  288-5282  Dan x1694  GA's or STUD TIX  LOUNGE NOV. 17,6:30 PM.  FOR­ 
6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS  MER PARTICIPANTS, PIZZA,  
Resumes lisa 273-6332  GREEKS & CLUBS  NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.  FSU  TEACHERS.  INFO CALL PROF.  
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL  &  BLACK 284-4460(W) 272-3726 (H)  
Jean, Jean the Typing Machine ­ RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST  NOW OR NEXT FALL272-6306  BC  
fast and friendly! Call 18858 & leave  ONE WEEK! For your fraternity,  NEEDED:  BC TICKETS!! PLEASE  
msg.  sorority or club. Plus $1,000 for  lodging -Riverfront -Private.  CALL WENDY X3427  CALL SEAN @ 234-2793  Thanks for helping us raise over  
yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just  257-9101.  $1300 for La Casa de Amistad.  
Freshmen: producers of our class  for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75.  Need 2 GA's for BC. Rick 273-5347  
magazine, Experience '97, need  ROOMMATE NEEDED  Special congratulations to Monise  
your help. We're looking for funny  FREE TRIPS & CASHI Call us and  Spr. Sem.  NEED 2 BC STUD & 1 GA  Seward of B.P. for winning the FSU  
anecdotes that have happened dur­ lind out how hundreds of students  Trtle Crk Twnhs  I need up to 4 BC student tickets.  CALL ZEKE OR RUDY  x1686  tickets.  
Ing your stay on campus or myths  are already earning FREE TRIPS  271-1399  Call Jason at 634-1130.  
you heard about ND before you  and LOTS OF CASH with America's  BILLY JOEL TX 4 SALE!  Watch for other upcoming events  
arrived. Your ideas would be appre­ #1 Spring Break company! Choose  lodging -Riverfront -Private  B.C. Sen. Stud. For Sale-B/0. 273­ $50 or BO by noon NOV 19  sponsored by the Sophomore  
ciated. Please send/deliver submis­ Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica,  257-9101  5909-Pete.  x2365  Class.  
sions to 252 Knoh or 212Lewis by  Panama, Daytona or Padre! CALL  
Wed., Nov. 17. Questions, call  NOWI TAKE A BREAK STUDENT  2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES  I HAVE 1 BC STUD 4 SALE  1 BC Stud. ticket for sale  
x4951 or x4135.  TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or  NEAR ND  Chris 271-7807  Tim 237-1012  Hello Karin (again)  
················rNo·············  (617)424-8222  AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR 232-25g5  
TROOP NOTRE DAME  Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  ••••••••Bc STUD. TICKEr•••••••••  MBA Student needs 2 GAs for BC.  WANTED -rider to D.C. area for  
Dance Club  Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go  HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­ Bob X4529.  T-break to help $ gas & tolls. leave  
Routine will be taught:  FREEl Best trips & pricesl  able for parents on weekends. 219­ FOR SALE ­ Best Offer. Senior  Wed. noon, rtn. Sun. Call Jenny at  
NOV TUES16 & Thurs18  Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica,  291-2899.  sec. ID incl. Jason 232-2263.  $$$$$$$$  289-9633  
@Am 219 Rockne  Panama Cityl Great Resume expe­ HAVE TWO BC GA'S  
Tryouts: SUN, NOV 21  7-10pm  rience! 1-800-678-63861  FOR SALE  ••••••••Bc STUD. TICKET•••••••••  BEST OFFER @ 3419 $$$$$$$  # #  #  #  #  #  #  
@JACC PIT  AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS.  WorldTeach  
EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE  NEED B.C. GA'S CALL BRIAN  Interested in teaching in  
Word Processing, term papers, etc.  WORLD FREEl (CARIBBEAN,  Ford Escort, 1985,95,000 m,  X3467  4 BC GAs 4 SALE. CALL x4876  Russia, Poland, Costa Rica,  
259-7402  EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIAI) CRUISE  body and mechanics sound,  w/best offer  Ecuador, South Africa, Namibia,  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  very reliable. Going overseas ­ China or  
Anyone need a ride to the DC area  HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  must sell immediately, $500 ono,  I need BC GA's  For Sale: Boston College Student  Thailand? Come find out how  
for Thanksgiving? I've got a spot  SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE!  Ph trevor (219)7339557.  Ryan x3679  Ticket-$40 or best offer.  X3043  undergrads or grads can become  
Call Staph at 273-6548.  CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31  WorldTeach volunteers, Tues. Nov  
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  NEED B.C. GA's  •••FOR SALE•••  16, C.S.C. 6:30-7:30 PM.  
-BACKPACK THIEVES DON'T  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  call lisa at 634-4271  FOUR BC GA'S  WorldTeach  
DESERVE TO ATTEND A UNIVER­ Earn up to $2000+/month working  Increase t 1/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  TOGETHER ON 25-YD LINE  #  #  #  #  #  #  
SITY LIKE NOTRE DAME...GET A  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ days lncludes12 meals $279!  CALL BILL AT 291-6216  #  
LIFE AND GET A CONSCIENCE  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  Need 2 GAs for any home game  
YOU MISERABLE THIEF- Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  Cancun from Chicago $439,  Call Tim at 273-1757  FOR SALE: 2 BC GA'S-CALL  
ILOST & FOUND I  Summer and Full-Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206­ Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/ Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  BC Stud. Tckt.  WITH OFFER. KATIE, X3756  NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB ALUMNI REUNION CONCERT  
634-0468 ext. C5584  BestOHer  FOR SALE: 2 BC GA'S  Friday, November 19  
BIKE FOUND BY ND SECURITY  2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston  Alice 4-0505  X2824  at 8:30 PM in Stepan Center  
21-SPEED FUJI MONTERREY  BEACH or SKI Group Promoter.  12-14 $65ea. 508-771-6996  Tickets available NOW at  
RECOVERED ON NOV. 7  Small or larger groups. Your's  LaFortune Information Desk  
@4:30pm  FREE, discounted or CASH. Call  Dependable 1986 Plymouth Duster  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ General Admission $3  
CMI 1-800-423-5264  Holly 271-8940  LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­ I need three BC student tix.  Please  Students $2  
LOST: a brown leather bag on  6183.  call X4097.  
..  Flrday 11/13 afternoon In Crowley Hall of Music. With wallet, ID card,  SPRING BREAK '94 CANCUN Organize trip & travel for FREE +  Hewleh Packard clearance sale: HP 27S scientific calculator, with  For Sale:  GA's for all games.  277­ PERSONAL  ____......  
credit card, checkbook and other  CASH Call College Tours (800)395­ all documentation. Program  1659.  
important items in it If found, please  4896 -Rick or Louie  formulas and love life. HP DeskJet  
contact634-1290  printer (for IBM). Print In the  DIAMOND RING for sale  SEAN AND BRETT ARE SOOOOO  
PAPA JOHN'S is still hiring  privacy of your own room.  Need BC Tickets!  call Katy 273-6219  GOOD.  THEY ARE MY FRIENDS.  
drivers and inside personnel  Call Rolando at 631-4541.  x2846  
LOST: Bright purple Columbia  Flexible hours and 50% oil  SEAN AND BRETT ARE SOOOOO  
"Bugaboo' ski jacket with green lin­ PAPA JOHN'S Pizzal  YAMAHA PSR-12 KEYBOARD  I NEED FLORIDA ST.  & BOSTON  NOT COOLIII  NOT COOL! III  GOOD. THEY ARE MY FRIENDS.  
ing.  If found, please call Joe  Call271-1177 or stop by  LIKE NEW, NEW $300, MAKE  COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306  
@1613.  54533 Terrace lane  OFFER. MAGNATONE 75 WATT  
LOST:  EOE  GUITAR/KEYBOARD AMP WITH VIBRATO & REVERB PEDALS  NEED 4 BC GAS CALL PAT X1689  Hey busdriver, keep the change Bless your children, give them  TO THE BACKPACK THIEF­;I' Hell has a place for you ... God sees  
Camera. 2 lenses and flash in  FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII  $200 CALL JASON, @237-9702  I NEED BC TIX  names.  '  all ... l hope you enjoyed the $200  
brown leather bag from home side­ Individuals and Student  X 1665  because I have NOTHING to live on  
line after USC game  Organizations wanted to promote  for the rest of the semester.  
Call Mike x1187.  the Hohest Spring Break  BAHAMA -CRUISE  Adoption: Doctor and professor will  If you have any remorse for taking  
Destinations. call the nation's  5 Days 4 niles $288/coupte  12 DRINKING IRISHMEN FROM  make dreams for your baby come  my books, computer disks, my daily  
leader. Inter-Campus Programs  Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri  BOSTON NEED YOUR GA'S AND  true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  planner, my work folder, my check  
LOST-2 Macintosh Disks  1-800-327-6013  10-5 Sat 407-648-4480 ext. 607  STUD. TIX FOR THE BC GAME  city; summer by the beach: Your  book, or the only money I had to my  
possibly In lib. on 11/7  -Bryan x1190  baby rocked to steep by a cozy fire­ name than call me ...  
tan, 1 with BACK UP FILES on it,  STILL LOOKING FOR MALE &  Airline Ticket round trip from South  place in winter, and by ocean waves  Tara #634-4975  
the other with MARK 3  FEMALE MODELS TO PUT ON  Bend to Seahle Jan. 6th  -Jan 15th  in summer.  Art, music, the best  
VERY IMPORTANTill  POSTERS & CALENDARS. FOR  $230.00 call Judy 631-4811 before  $$$$$$$$$$  education, endless love. Call  
Please call 273-6242 if found  INFO., PLEASE CALL271-1371.  5pm M-F  Desparalely need  Franny or Stephen collect (212)369­ -TOTHE ROOM-MATES  
4 BC GA'sl  Will  2597  OR FRIENDS OF THE  
going to DECORAH, lA,  IBM Compatible For Sale!! I  pay BIG $$'s!l  BACKBACK THIEF- 
My backpack was stolen from North  ROCHESTER, MN or anywhere  -386-20/25 Processor;  4 MB RAM  Call Sara NOW  If you have any shred of com­ 
Dining hall last Friday night at din­ close the wkd. of dec. 4? need ride,  -14" SVGA Color Monitor  @ 273-5126.  Adoption: the placement of your  passion for fellow NO students  
ner.  If anyone found a blue/green  will pay. joe-x3533.  -80 MB hard drive  $$$$$$$$$$  child may be the most precious gilt  please return my backpack to me.  
Eddy Bower backpack in some ran­ -5 1/4" & 3 1/2" Floppy Drives  you could make. NO alum wants to  Stealing isn't cool or funny ... think of  
dom bush or In your room-mates  I need a ride to Minneapolis area  -Hayes Optima 24 Modem  Need FSU, BC Ga's or Stud Tix call  be mom through your gift.  where you would be without your  
stu« please call me. My life was in the bag so I'd like it back. Tara 11634-4975  (Prior Lake) for Turkey Day. Will help with gas, tolls, etc. Very Friendly. Call Kory x3040  -Citizen GSX-140 Color Printer -3 button mouse Asking $1300 or best offer. Call !)34-4732, leave message.  Sean @ 234-2793 hey I need BC GAs and Stud. bryan x1686  Professional couple, country home, with lots of love and faith. Strictly legal. Call Tricia and Jim 1-800-820-1139.  backpack ... thanks .... Tara McDonald 333 Knoh Hall #634-4975  

-----~~-----~ ~ ---~~~-l 
Tuesday, November 16, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
-

7.he Xo!re 7Jame I c5ainfYffary 's I Jfoij Gross Gommun1/y 



7f!Ji(emoriaf!Ji(ass !Jor 

ByonsJfaff YirsiYear c5!urlenl 7/1!.he 23asifica of!.he c5acredJfearl · 
7uesday, 5:15p.m. Y?ev. 0dward!JJ(afloy, G. c5. G. , :l+esirlenlof!.he Qfnivers1fy, :l+esirler 
Y?ev. 7.homas Yffc7Jermoff, G. c5. G., preac.hin!J c5r. Xalhfeen 23eaffy, c5. c5.:J, concfudin!J rejfeclions 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 16, 1993
-
Knight unsure of upcoming season success Fencing 

By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Either graduation losses hurt Indiana more than Bob Knight is willing to admit, or else for once he's serious when he says he has no idea how good the lloosiers will be this season. 
Indiana ran away with the Big Ten championship and was ranked No. 1 in the nation a year ago. But the Hoosiers lost three starters, including college player of the year Calbert Cheaney, the most prolific scor­er in conference history, and Greg Graham, the Big Ten's top defensive player. 

Matt Nover, a steady center and the team's best shooter, also is gone. 
Knight, starting his 23rd sea­son at Indiana, won't say who will take up the slack. 
"No, I'm just not smart enough to do that. I'm telling you, that takes somebody who's a hell of a lot smarter than I am," he said. 
"I don't think I'm dumb, don't misunderstand. I'm not ever going to think I'm dumb. As long as there are three or four writers around, I know I'm not 
Kosar wins Dallas debut with Aikman sidelined 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IHVING, Texas 
Winner was the word used at Valley Hanch to describe Bernie Kosar the day after his debut with the Dallas Cowboys. 
"Bernie has always been a winner," Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson said. "lie finds a way to get the job done." 
"lie may look at little awk­ward at times, but his passes get to the target on time and he doesn't make mistakes," offen­sive coordinator Norv Turner said. 
Kosar hit 13 of 21 passes for 199 yards, one touchdown and no interceptions in the Cow­boys' 20-15 victory over the Phoenix Cardinals. Kosar has the lowest interception rate in NFL history and didn't serve any balls up for grabs in Sun­day's game. 
"It's all been a little over­whelming," said Kosar, cut last week after 8 1/2 seasons with the Cleveland Browns. "I just didn't want to let the organiza­tion and the players down. It was a hectic week." 
Kosar went into the game late in the first quarter with 67 plays wrttien on a wristband. 
"I should be able to learn more of the offense this week," Kosar said. "I just didn't want to make any plays to hurt the team." 
Kosar, signed for a guaran­teed $1 million the rest of the season, will go back to the bench along with Jason Garrett as soon as Troy Aikman's pulled hamstring heals. 

Aikman still wasn't certain whether his hamstring had fully mended. 
"I've never had a pulled ham­string before so I don't want to rush it," Aikman said. "It's very frustrating to be on the sidelines. I'd like to play against Atlanta this Sunday but we'll just have to see. 
''I'll try it in practice this week but I don't want to re­aggravate it. I'm optimistic," he said. 
Aikman has been treating the pull with ice and acupuncture. He was on the sidelines in blue jeans watching Sunday's game. 
Johnson said the Aikman sit­uation "is still day to day. We'll just watch how Troy is eoming along. He's still our starting quarterback. 
the dumbest SOB in the world. But I just can't do that." 
Remember, though, Knight never makes predictions. He always says he hasn't seen enough to gauge their chances, or some variation of that theme. Yet year after year, the Hoosiers seem to come up with something. Knight has never had a losing season at Indiana, and every player who has stayed around for all four years has been part of at least one Big Ten championship team. 
Knight has won or shared 11 Big Ten titles and has won three of Indiana's five NCAA championships. The Hoosiers were 31-4 last year, losing in the NCAA regional final to Kansas. 
Cheaney, a first-round NBA draft pick by the Washington Bullets, averaged 22.4 points a game and set a Big Ten career record with 2,613 points. Gra­ham, now with the Philadelphia 76ers, was the Hoosiers' sec­ond-leading scorer at 16.5 a game. 
Likely candidates to take over the bulk of the team's scoring include senior guard Damon Bailey, if he works a lot harder; forward Alan Henderson, if his injured knee is healthy; and forward Brian Evans. Or even someone else. 
"Sometimes it isn't a person. Sometimes it's a team that scores," said Knight. 
"Evans could score a lot of points," he said of the 6-foot-8 sophomore. "I think Evans has a great potential as a player. There are a lot ·or things he does well, and probably at the 

Jensen 
continued from page 16 

to Miami in the last game of the 1989 regular season, you didn't see the Irish asking anyone for another chance. The Irish were outplayed and outmanned, and they didn't cry over their own spilt milk· and lost national title hopes. 
They lost with class-some­thing Florida State obviously hasn't learned how to do. 
Now we even see Bowden get­ting into the act. He is implor­ing the forces that be to look at their difficult schedule, and "give them another chance." 
"Look around and see what other people are playing," said Bowden on Sunday. "How many ranked teams did Notre Dame play?" 
I don't think it really matters what happened in the rest of anyone's games, Bobby. 
The fact is you lost the Big One. And the worst part is, you top of that list might be just simply understanding how to play. There are not a whole lot of players that really under­stand how to play, but Evans does." 
The 6-3 Bailey, the most her­alded Indiana recruit before ever setting foot on campus since Steve Alford a decade ago, has never lived up to his reputation in high school, when he was a four-time All-State se­lection and became only the second Indiana player to score more than 3,000 career points. 
"lie's got to play a hell of a lot harder. If Bailey plays a hell of a lot harder, then that's all Bai­ley has to do," Knight said. "If I said he's got to play a hell of a lot harder than he has, it would indicate to me that I have not been real pleased with how hard he has played to this point." 
Bailey led the Hoosiers in as­sists at 4.1 per game last year but averaged only 10.1 points on 46 percent shooting, the worst among the five starters. The 6-9 Henderson, the other returning starter, averaged 
11.1 points and a team-high 8.1 rebounds but missed five games after a severe knee injury. 
lie came back late in the sea­son but was mostly ineffective, and he underwent surgery last May. 
"The medical people feel he is as far as along as they could expect him to be at this point. ... I think he's a very bright kid and will understand that he's got to put a hell of an effort into getting back where he was," Knight said. 
were outcoached. 

Florida State was seven point favorites over a team that was deemed as being inadequate to the Florida State juggernaut. 
FSU players barked and woofed that they had what "could be the best college team ever," in the words of Seminole receiver Kevin Knox. 
''I'm not saying it's going to be a blowout, but I'm saying you'll all get your money's worth," said Knox before the game. "Who do you stop on Florida State? The wide receivers? Not! Charlie Ward? Not! The defense? It's incredible. 
"I hope the defense goes out and gets another shutout. By getting a good shutout here, that really kind of simplifies that we're the best ever." 
I sure got my money's worth, 
continued from page 16 
more interesting and easier to tabulate the results," said coach DeCicco. 
Some drawbacks in the tour­nament involved the order of the weapons and the idea of touches being paramount to the bouts. Coach Baguer said that the placement of the sabre as the last weapon made it dif­ficult to comeback once a lead was established. That made Lester's win to clinch the title even sweeter. 


Badin 
continued from page 14 
On the kick-off that followed, 
Badin's Jill Satanek sprinted 
60 yards for the final touch­
down, giving Badin an eight­
point lead, 26-18. 
Howard had a little over a 
minute to score and possibly tie 
the game, but the Badin de­
fense held tight. 
"It was a pretty fair game," stated Howard quarterback Wassil. "It was a rough game and they had the conversion that we didn't have." 
Satanek was the star of the 
day, scoring two touchdowns 
for the "Attitude" and catching 
three other passes. "This is 
what we've been working for 
all season long," said Satanek. 
"We are really excited about 
playing in the Stadium, and our 
goal is definitely to become in­
terhall champs." 
This Sunday Rockne Stadium will host yet another No. 1 vs. No. 2 match-up-Badin against P.W. for the women's interhall championship. 
Revm. I got lo see a i·londa State team dominated in all facets of the game. And that defense, it was certainly incred­ible. I couldn't believe it gave up three rushing touchdowns in the first half, after letting up just two the whole season. That was sure incredible. 
What I saw was what "could be the best eollege team ever" beaten handily by a Notre Dame team that has to bP con­sidered one of the best ever now, since it manhandled what you thought was the best ever. 
A message to Frier, Bowden, Knox, and the rest of the Florida State program: You don't deserve another chance. You lost. 
Go play Miami or Texas A&M. They're more your style. 


~~---~ -~ ~ ~ 
----------. 
Tuesday, November 16, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
-· 




OSU prepares for rival Michigan Espinosa and Pippig win ­
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Like a nagging pain in the neck that won't go away, the mention of the word "Michigan" brings up a lot of close calls and catcalls for Ohio State coach John Cooper. 
In five meetings with rival Michigan while with the Buck­eyes, he has lost four times and tied once. 
In a state where everything grinds to a halt on the third Saturday in November each year in anticipation of the game of the season, Cooper's record is a sore spot. But it's more of a sore spot to him than anybody else. 
"Do I like living in Columbus when we haven't beaten Michigan? Obviously, the an­swer is no," Cooper said Mon­day at his weekly news confer­ence. "I don't like living here when you have to hear that all the time. But I tell our team ­our players and coaches and even myself-that if you don't like it, go change it. Go win the game." 
Cooper will get his next and best opportunity to get the maize-and-blue monkey off his back when the fifth-ranked Buckeyes travel to -Michigan on Saturday. 
A lot is riding on the outcome, even beyond putting up with another year of criticism and speculation from critics. 
The Buckeyes (9-0-1 overall and 6-0-1 in the Big Ten Con­ference) can lock up their first outright Big Ten title and first trip to the Rose Bowl in nine years with a victory. 
Even if they lose, they still can back into a trip to Pasadena. The only way Wisconsin can go is if the Buckeyes lose and the Badgers win at Illinois on Sat­urday and against Michigan State Dec. 4 in Tokyo. 
Wisconsin, which tied Ohio State 14-14 two weeks ago, hasn't been to the Rose Bowl since 1962 and would win a tiebreaker with Ohio State be­cause the Buckeyes have been to Pasadena more recently. 
Backing into the Rose Bowl and winning an outright Big Ten title won't be enough to quiet Cooper's critics in this city of 575,000 people which does­n't have a pro sports team to occupy its attention. Only a vic­tory over Michigan will guaran­tee most fans' happiness. 
"I don't think you've had a fantastic year at Ohio State un­less you beat Michigan," But that is little consolation for Cooper or for fickle Ohio State fans who notice only one game on the schedule. 
Cooper said Ohio State wouldn't be complacent, even though Michigan, which has won its last two games, is 6-4 on the year. 
"Obviously, we're going to do everything we can to win the game this week. But if we end up in the Rose Bowl, you're not going to hear us apologizing to anybody," Cooper said. 
In 1990, Ohio State needed to defeat Michigan to remain a factor in the conference race. A tie would do the Buckeyes no good. So on fourth-and-1 at their own 29 with less than two minutes left, they went for the first down. Greg Frey was thrown for a loss and Michigan sealed the outcome with a field goal in the final seconds. 
Indiana preparing two quarterbacks for Saturday's matchup against Purdue 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Now it seems Purdue's de­fense has to prepare for two quarterbacks in Saturday's Old Oaken Bucket game against Indiana. 
Hoosier coach Bill Mallory said quarterback John Paci should be ready to play against the Boilermakers. But if he's not, Mallory will be comfortable going with redshirt freshman Chris Dittoe, Indiana's hero in defeat last week at Ohio State. 
"The person I want to single out is Chris Dittoe. Chris had taken probably six or seven snaps all year and threw I think three passes, and to go into a pressure-packed situation like that, you have to take your hat off to him," Mallory said. 
Dittoe got his first start in place of Paci, who was out with a sprained shoulder, and he hit 16 of 30 passes for 207 yards and one touchdown. The 23-17 loss to Ohio State, following a 38-31 defeat at Penn State the week before, dropped Indiana to 7-3 for the season and 21st in this week's Associated Press poll. 
"We should have him back; a:nd he should be more ready Tuesday," Mallory said of Paci. "We'll just have to see. It'll have to be a day-to-day deal." 
He said Dittoe "really held his poise. He did an excellent job. The players rallied around him, and as the game wore on our pass protection was very good. They gave Chris time, and I was real pleased with his per­formance." 
"•'f.;, 

~ ~­
~ ~-¥6···· 
~~-,;: 

Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
Purdue coach Jim Colletta must 
prepare for both IU quarterbacks. 
The loss dropped Indiana out of contention for the Rose Bowl. The Hoosiers are still in line for another bowl bid, but that's not a concern as they prepare for the Boilermakers, Mallory said. 
"We're focused on one thing. We've got our minds on one game, and we're not even en­tertaining any thoughts about a bowl right now. We've got our work cut out to get ready and prepare this week and go out and play well on Saturday. That's where we're focused, period," he said. 
Purdue (1-9) will be ready for the Hoosiers, Mallory warned. 
"You've seen a football team that has gotten better and bet­ter. It's important we go out and play well. It's not going to be an easy one, that's for sure," he said. 
Mallory said the Hoosiers don't look for "moral victo­ries," but he still tries to look to the positive side of any loss. 
"And I certainly know it was a hard-played game," he said of the loss to Ohio State. "Defensively, we played much better than we did against Penn State. Our defense made a lot of good plays there." 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 
SYRACUSE ABROAD Something to write home about! • Programs in Africa, Australia, Belgium, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain 


• Prior foreign language not always necessary 
• 
SU credit 


• 
Field trips/traveling seminars 

• 
Internships 


• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home or limited apartment placements 


Applications for the Spring 1994 Semester are still being accepted. 


marathon, lose bonuses 
By BERT ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
It was the hottest Nov. 14 on record in New York, yet it was not warm enough to earn New York City Marathon champions Andres Espinosa and Uta Pip­pig extra bonus money. 
Under regulations set by the New York Road Runners Club, organizers of Sunday's race, time bonuses are awarded for clockings under 2 hours, 15 minutes, for men, and 2:33 for women. Different times apply if the weather conditions are hot and humid. 
Under the formula for extra bonuses, the temperature hu­midity index must be 66.5 when the men's winner arrives. The THI is arrived at by adding the temperature and the humidity and dividing by two. 
When Espinosa finished in 2:10:04, the temperature was 70 and the humidity 61, mak­ing the THI 65.5, one point short of the requirement for the added money. However, a short time later, as many of the 26,515 finishers swarmed across the finish line in Central Park, the temperature reached a record 72, putting the THI at 66.5. 
Being one THI point short of qualifying cost _Espinosa $10,000 and Pippig, who was timed in 2:26:24, $5,000. 
Nevertheless, both did well fi­nancially. Each received $20,000 for winning, $20,000 time bonus money for normal weather conditions and a new Mercedes-Benz sedan, worth about $42,500. 
The sultry conditions resulted 
for weather-related incidents, 
including 45 who were trans­
ported to hospitals for treat­
ment, Bob Leonard, a 
spokesman for Emergency 
Medical Services, said Monday. 
"That was not bad, consider­
ing the warm weather," 
Leonard said. 
The two worst cases were 
Chris Muessel, 35, of Washing­
ton, and Peter Zielinski, 26, of 
Derby, Conn. They were taken 
to Bellevue Medical Center with 
temperatures of about 108 de­
grees each and unconscious, 
EMS spokesman Gus Pappas 
said Sunday. 
The two were listed in stable 
condition Monday, the hospital 
said. 

Two-time New York City 
Marathon women's runner-up 
Kim Jones, 35, of Spokane, 
Wash., suffered a severe asth­rna attack at the 17th mile and dropped out. 
"I thought I was going to die," Jones said. "It was pretty bad." 
Jones was treated at a hospi­tal and released, as was Anne Marie Letko, 24, of Glen Gard­ner, N.J., one of the world's top distance runners making her marathon debut. Letko suffered from slight dehydration. 
Leonard said the worst year for the runners was 1984, when about 2,000 were treated and about 150-200 were hospi­talized. One spectator suffered cardiac arrest. The tempera­ture reached 79 and the hu­midity 62 that year when the race was run Oct. 28. 
Artother bad year was 1990, when some 700-800 were treated, with 70-80 hospital­ized, Leonard said. The tem­perature then was 73 and the humidity 58 on Nov. 4. 
Next year, the race will be held Nov. 6. 
Allan Steinfeld, president of the NYRRC and technical direc­tor of the race, said the num­bers of starters for this year's race would not be known for a few more days, but he esti­mated the number was 27,500. 
There probably will be even more starters next year, the 25th running of the race, Stein­feld said. 
Steinfeld admitted that Pippig cut a corner during the race, I gaining her an estimated 3-4 . II yards, but it was well under the 
I
allowable 46 yards to say she 
I 
did not run the full distance, according to Steinfeld. It did not make a significant differ­ence in the result, he said. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 


--~--~---~ ----~ ---~ ­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-PW tops Lewis to advance to championship against Badin 
By SCOTI CLEMENTE Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla West defeated Lewis 20-6 to advance to the championship game of the play­on·s. The win was PW's second over Lewis this season. PW will faee Badin this Sunday in Notre Dame stadium to decide the championship. 
Lewis struck first in the half when quarterback Julie Fleck threw a 20 yard touchdown pass to teammate Kim Gold. 
The defenses held strong for the rest of the half until PW was able to score with one minute to go. 
Senior Bethany Riddle threw a touchdown pass to teammate Jennifer Tate which tied the score at six. Riddle then ran in the bootleg for the extra point and the Weasals went into half time with a 7-6 lead. 
Neither team could move the ball to start the second half as both teams were forced to punt on fourth down. 

Then, midway through the second half, Lewis sophomore Andrea Salvucci intercepted a PW pass. The momentum seemed to shift to Lewis's favor but they were unable to capital­ize. 
Lewis ran a reverse that did not fool the PW defense. The play cost Lewis 15 yards and they were forced to throw for the first down. The Weasal de­fense was expecting pass and senior Kathleen Glines was able to come up with the intercep­tion with 8 minutes to go in the game. 
Hiddle then threw for her sec­ond touchdown pass of the game, this time to senior Brid­get Graham. The extra point was good and PW led 14-6. 
Riddle was surprised that she was able to pass so easily. "Lewis always puts a lot of pressure on me," stated the quarterback. "We try to stick to the short passes but today I was able to get some extra time on the long balls." 
Lewis then had two more shots at the win or the tie but were unable to convert. 
Lewis got he ball after the PW touchdown, but were unable to score after they failed on a fourth and short with two min­utes to go in the game. 
The Lewis defense then held PW to give the offense one 



Stanford stops Fisher 10-7 in overtime 
By G.R. NELSON Sports Writer 
Florida State was not the only number one team to fall this weekend. Stanford Hall upset previously undefeated and top­seeded Fisher 10-7 in overtime. 
According to interhall over­time rules, each team receives four plays to score from their opponent's ten yard line. Stan­ford went first, but Fisher's defense rose to the occasion and stuffed them. However, Stanford opted for a field goal, and the steady Chad Smock 
connected on a 23-yard at­tempt. 

Then came Fisher's chance. Fisher ran a blast play for five yards on its first play, but they surprisingly opted to go to the air on the next. Fisher used a play action pass, but Stanford was not fooled. Chad Smock pressured quarterback Jeff Biever, forcing Biever to throw quickly and into coverage. 
Stanford's Mike Miller leaped high into the air to make a sen­sational one-handed intercep­tion. For the second consecu­tive week, Miller saved the day. 



Tuesday, November 16, 1993 


more shot at the win. 

Again they failed after Glines netted her second interception of the day. The senior ran the ball back for a touchdown as time expired giving PW a 20-6 
"I will do anything to help this team win," said the hero Miller, "Its time to take our show to the stadium." 
Fisher scored first when Chris Lary blocked a punt and recov­ered it in the endzone. That was all Fisher would get. Stanford's defense completely stifled the potent Fisher air at­tack. Stanford recorded seven sacks, four by Smock, and forced two interceptions, one by George Nelson and the other by Miller. 
Stanford's offense moved the ball at ease but only had seven points to show for their efforts because of two costly turnovers deep in Fisher territory. Stan­ford's touchdown came on a twelve-yard run by Lamar Guillory. 
Fisher has much of which to be proud, improving from last year's dismal 0-4 record to 5-1. "We are disappointed," said Biever, "But it was a great ride." 
Despite their mistakes, Stan­ford made the plays when they had to and advanced. "I feel like the luckiest man alive," said Stanford captain Chris Pol­lina. A litlle luck combined with great talent can go a long way, like to the Finals. 

21st Annual Summer Program ND-SMC Students 
LONDON ROME May 18 -June 1 7 June 12-July 11 Travel in Ireland, Travel in France, Scotland and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Cour.;es offered in 
BIOLOGY, BUSINESS & ECONOMICS, HISTORY, ITALIAN, LITERATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, SOCIOLOGY 
MEETING November 17 
6:30 pm Library Auditorium Lounge, Notre Dame • Free Pizza • Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 
victory. 

This will be the first opportu­nity for most PW players to play in the stadium. Hiddle is just one of the players anticipating the game. ''I've been looking forward to this for three years," said the senior. 
The game will be a matchup of the two teams considered the best in the league. 



Badin squeaks by Howard in Sunday's semi-finals 
By KELLY CORNELIS Howard on their next two pos­S ortsWrirer sessions, and their offense con­r-----------,tinued to produce. At soggy Cartier Quarterback Shari field on Sunda Shepard threw two afternoon, Badin touchdown passes, defeated Howard , one to sophomore 26-18, in a close, receiver Jill Satanek, physical game to and the other to move into the senior Aurelie women's interhall Gallagher. The recep­finals. tions put Badin up 19­
Howard shocked 6 at the half. the Badin defense by scoring on Howard came out strong in the opening drive on a run by the second period, scoring on senior Carrie Mouritsen. The an option by junior Sarah Don­extra attempt failed, but nelly to cut the gap to seven. On Howard held the early lead, 6-the next possession quarter­
0. back Sue Wassil handed the 
Badin came back on the fol-ball off to Sarah Norton, who lowing series with a touchdown exploded out of the pocket with by fleet-footed running back a 40-yard touchdown run. Tina Fuoco to tie the game at Leading 19-18, Badin stopped six. Senior Alison Meriaux ran the extra point attempt as in the extra point to give the Shelly DiJlenberger batted "Attitude" the edge, 7-6. 
The Badin defense held see BADIN I page 12 
CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
~OJ.!RSES ADQED AME 698E 01 #5802 Perturbation Methods; 3 cr. hr.; CSE 499R 09 #5803 Undergraduate Research; var. cr. hr.;.; Permission Required EE 498K 01 #5804 Communication Systems Laboratory; 1cr hr.; T 02: 30.05:00; 
Permission Required 
~Q!.!RSE ~HA~QES 

ARCH 544 01 #1245 Change time to: TH 09:00-10:45 
ARCH 598D 01 #0410 Change time to: MWF 10:10-11:00 
ECON 451 01 #1177 Change pre-requisite to: ECON 350 or 454 
H1ST 570 01 #5279 Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 
HPS 570 01 #5290 Change time to: TH 09:30·10:45 
ME 226 01 #()986 Change pre-requisite to: ME 225 and MATH 225 
ME 439 01 #1929 Change pre·requisite to: (AERO 360 or ME 334) and (ME 327 or CHEG 327) and (MATH 325 or ME 321) 
~Q!.!RSE CAN~:ELLED: THEO 498-01 #2603 
~LQSED CO!.!RSES 

AFAM  454  01  4064  ENOL  458C  01  5144  LAW  695  01  3128  
AMST  399E  01  4955  ENOL  467A  01  5149  LAW  695  03  3010  
AMST  496E  01  4965  ENOL  471  01  5150  LAW  695  04  0632  
ANTH  454  01  3988  ENOL  480  01  5151  LAW  695  02  3790  
ARCH  598A  01  1251  ENOL  483  01  4094  LAW  695  05  1211  
ARCH  598E  01  1134  ENOL  489  01  5152  LAW  695  06  2140  
CHEM  224L  07  49ll  ENOL  489B  01  5153  MARK  381  01  3366  
COMM  103  07  9707  ENOL  491A  01  5154  MARK  381  02  5739  
COMM  210  16  9716  ENOL  492E  01  5J55  MBA  697  02  5798  
ENOL  3058  01  5103  ENOL  4950  OJ  5158  MSA  574  01  5788  
ENOL  310  02  5105  ENOL  497B  OJ  5J59  MSA  675  01  4851  
ENOL  3J4A  01  4042  OE  410  OJ  4095  MUS  226  01  1109  
ENOL  415E  01  4580  oovr  343T  04  1424  PHIL  246  01  0084  
ENOL  417E  01  5132  oovr  l43T  08  1547  PHIL  261  01  1752  
ENOL  4198  01  5133  OSC  489  01  5186  PSY  396A  01  5391  
ENOL  419C  01  5134  HIST  454A  01  4066  RLST  213  20  9520  
ENOL  435A  01  5139  HIST  460A  01  3862  RLST  230  24  9524  
ENOL  440E  01  5142  liPS  491A  01  4300  THEO  252  01  0047  


Tuesday, November 16, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 



BILL WATTERSON CALVIN AND HOBBES 

I OON1 CAI<t ~BOUT lSS\JE5.1 I 'St-.'{, E.ITI-\ER f>.GRtt Wl\11 ISSUE m DEB/I..TE fOR 
l-IEU> ME. THINK OF AN 
ME OR T/\'(E 1\. \-1\I<E! THIS D\JMB PAPER. 
l'VE GJT St:m.R \1-\lNGS TO 
l't>\ RIE.\-\1, PERioD.' WRIJNG-\-IE/>..1)8) C\<.ACKYbT 
Do TI-1M{ ,._RGIJE 'Ninl E\lER'i 
END Of DI'SC\JSSION .' 'N\111 N-1 \GI'IOAAN\ OPINION! l"M ~ 13\lS'I Mf>.N .' 

At Electric Chair Operators Night School 
OF INTEREST 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
ACROSS 25 Canadian 45 Animals of a Indians region
1 Sandy beach 26 Fabric feature 46 Slugger for 156 Freebies 28 Bigwigs Across 12 Dancer Pearl 49 "Be thou--of29 Construe health ...":31 Kin of lotto 
13 Chanteuse, e.g. Hamlet33 Command­
15 World Series 50 Climbing
ments

team: 1975 peppers37 Greek
17 Kind of blank 51 Mount Saint 
legislative

18 "Toilers of the --,Wash. Sea" painter 52 Entangling;
assembly 38 Like a gale insidious
19 "--tu," Verdi aria 
39"Where­where slept 

20 Road lead-in 
thine-": DOWN
21 Attacks Keats
22 "... with the 1 Landed 
40 Echidna fare 

blue ribbons 2 Freedom-of­41 Serb and Croat 
speech limit 42 Frown or scowl
23 Dos Passos 3 Valentine figure work 43 Third-rate grade 
4 NASA's 24 Goes on a diet 44 Glide or soar Grissom 5 Keep apart 6 Washington Zoo pair 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Fiat cousin 8 Trick finish 9 Tom Sawyer's 
half brother 86:=:+±::-+=81-,;-lii....,RR~~=-1 10 Scroll scribes 
24Sesame 34ln a devout way 42 Debussy opus 
11 Lardner 44 This stack'll 
35Baggage
25 Where the products cracklelongbow 36 Turkish inn 

12 Part of many a 45 Greek goat sentence prevailed 37 Any grape, cheese DINING HALL 
banana, etc.
-+-~~ 14 Beltway signs 27 Perfumery 47 Diamond -'­
packaging 38 Denounces 48Form of 
"'-+-'+'-'~ 15 Doughnut, for 41 Done in Buddhism
one 28Concocts 16 Salsify •
30 Old Testament 

21 "It-Be ~-=+=::+:::~~..-=-~1-==-!.::::..J..:.+-::...+:=:..j..:...~ You," 1924 book Answers to any three clues in this song 31 Pottery material puzzle are available by touch-tone ~=-~-=~ 22Be 32 Her symbol was phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 



grandiloquent a flute minute). 

w0 c.are llair 
HIGH QUALITY, LOW COST HAIR CARE 
1811 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 271-7674 


r-----------, r-----------.
I haircut coupon  I I  haircut coupon 1  
:  SAVE  : :  SAVE  :  
I  $1.00  I  I  $2.00  I  
II  reg. $8  II  Il  reg. $1:»15  II  
I  WET CUT  i  t  SHAMP,OO, cur &  1  
I  If  STYLE  I  
I  with this coupon  1  i  With trila coupon  1  

I ~>l(pirq; 11/22/93 I I ¥JIIm: 11/22/93 I

L-----------J L-----------J 
JUilJIE JUtlJIE JUtlJIE JBilJIE JUtlJIE rlllfllrl'Blllllfrl'Blllllfrl'BllllltrN'BlllllliNi JUilJfE JUtlJIE JUilJIE JUilJIE JBilJIE 
rlllllllrl'BIIRilfN' BIIRilfN' BIIRitrN' BIIRiliNi 
JUilJlE JUtlJIE JUilJIE JBilJIE JUilJIE 

riiRiliN' BIIRiliNi
JUilJfE Thursday @ Alumni I Senior Club. Be There. JUilJfE 

riiRiliN'BlllllliN'BIIRiliN'BlllllliN'BIIRilfNj
JUilJIE JUtlJIE JUilJfl JUilJIE JUilJIE 

riiRfliN'BlllllliN'BIIRiliN' BIIRitrN' BIIRiliN1 
JUilJfE JUilJIE JUilJfl JBilJIE JUilJfE 
j 

-





SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 16, 1993 
Notre Dame fencing wins Chicago Invitational title 

Florida State exhibits no class in loss 
D 
espite a cer­t a i n ·ealousy over their unparal­
leled  suc­ 
cess  over  
the  past  

few years, I 


have never JONATHAN associated JENSEN F 1 0 r i d a Associare S ons Ediwr 
State's football program with some successful programs of a renegade nature, such as Miami or Texas A&M. I have believed that Florida State and Bobby Bowden were the good guys of college football. 
Sure, they have had their share of cocky players and the like, but I thought they never exuded anything other than total class. 
It turns out that I thought wrong. 
Throughout this weekend's game, we were forced to endure numerous exhibitions of thoughtless and esoteric actions from a bunch of class­less players. 
In case you didn't notice, Seminole cornerback Clifton Abraham shoved Irish players Adrian Jarrell, Lee Becton. and Jeff Burris in the back after they were well over the goalline. He and a host of other 

• 
FSU players elicited three unnecessary roughness penal­ties for those pushes and exces­sive taunting. 
And there could have been more. 
Seminole defensive lineman Toddrick Macintosh even faked an injury to stop the clock. That's what I call class. 
I for one thought that Bobby Bowden's laid-back coaching philosophy was the trend of the 90's. lie gave his players a little slack. and developed trust by letting his players be them­selves. 
It is now obvious that Bowden's players are cut out o the same mold as Miami's criminals. and Bowden has absolutely no control over them. 
Now, after their embarrassing on-the-field actions, we have had to endure the Seminoles' constant begging and pleading for a rematch that began as soon as Shawn Wooden batted down Ward's final pass of the game. 
"Give us a chance," says Seminole flanker Matt Frier. 
Give us a chance? 

They were just thoroughly dominated by an obviously superior team, and all they can say is give us another chance? 
When No. 1 Notre Dame lost 
see JENSEN/ page 12 

By JOE VILLINSKI Spons Wrirer 
On Saturday the Notre Dame­Florida State game was defi­nitely the most exciting sport­ing event occurring. However, the Notre Dame fencing team saw similar drama Saturday as the A-team rallied to defeat Northwestern 25-24 and cap­ture the Chicago Invitational title. 
"I was extremely proud of the team's performance this weekend," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco. 
The championship match started off as senior Maura Gal­lagher was defeated 5-2 by Christine Vorheis in women's foil. Needing a good bout, senior Greg Wozniak won 8-4 giving the Irish a 10-9 lead. The momentum then shifted again when senior Corinne Dougherty lost 6-2 to Sara Heiden putting the Wildcats ahead 15-12. Men's eppe was next as freshman Jeremy Siek defeated Rob l.ichten 7-5, but Lichten got to 20 first and the Cats maintained a one-point lead 20-19. Now the stage was set for the deciding sabre match. Freshman Bill Lester was down to Carlos Villavicencio, but came back 


Zahm loses first game since '91 
The uoserve1rtJaKe Scott Taylor and the Manor advance to the interhall finals against Stanford this weekend . 
Inside SPORTS 

By JOE VILLINSKI Spons Wrirer 
Since 1991. Zahm. the defending interhall champs, had never lost a game. However, the Rabid Bat's unbeaten streak came to an end on Sunday as No. 2 Morrissey defeated them 14-3 to claim a spot in the championship game next week against Stanford. 
"I can't remember the last time we lost," said Zahm coach Dave Dominianni. 
The loss could be attributed in large part to the five Zahm turnovers that included three intercep­tions and two fumbles, one which led to the first Morrissey score. 
"We were plus-4 in the turnover ratio column and that helped us a lot when we were having trouble moving the ball," said Morrissey captain Scott Taylor. 
"Our defense played good, but we kept putting ourselves in such difficult positions with all the turnovers," added Dominianni. 
Nevertheless, the game started out well for Zahm when they jumped on the board in their first drive. After quarterback Randy Swatland hit Rick Hios for a big gain, sophomore Mike Wigton booted a 45-yard field goal to put Zahm up 3-0. 
The score remained that way throughout the first half with both teams having trouble moving the ball on the wet field. The scene changed though, on Zahm's first offensive series of the sec­ond half. Following a bad snap on the punt, junior Sean Wilson picked up the loose ball and scored giving Morrissey their first lead, 7-3. 
"That was the' biggest shift in the game." said Taylor. "It totally changed the momentum," he added. 
In the fourth quarter. junior George lUeder's interception set up Morrissey's second TD. Senior Justin Kruer then took the handoff in from the 2­yard line as Morrissey managed to take a large chunk of time off the clock, preventing any last­minute attempts by Zahm. 
"We were completely unprepared," said Dominianni. "Our offense was never able to get into rhythm." 
and defeated him on the last touch to preserve the title. 
"I was glad to see the sabre team do good against Northwestern," said assistant coach Ed Baguer. 
"We wantnd to provn some­thing against their sabre team since they beat us (7-2) last week at the festival," added ar­morer Greg Hipple. 
The Irish took home the tour­nament trophies in all three men's divisions. Siek was named MVP in foil, Lester in sabre and senior Hian Girard at epee. The woman also had a good showing despite having two foilists, Claudette De Bruin and Mindi Kalogera, fencing in Montreal. 
"To expect the epee team to perform well in only their sec­ond competition against such top teams to is asking a lot," said coach DeCieeo. 
As for the new cumulative scoring format that the tclllrna­ment installed their was mixed reaction from the coaching staff. Coach DeCicco pointed out that the new system did generate some more spectator interest. 
"The contesting taklls place on a single strip which makes it 
see FENCING I page 12 


Men's lnterhall 

Basketball 
Women's lnterhall 
Previously undefeated 
Badin and Pasquerilla 

Knight unsure of success 
Zahm and Fisher fell in 
West advance to finals in

in the upcoming season 
play-offs Sunday after­
Interhall Playofl's. 
for the Hoosiers. 
noon. 
see page14 
see page14

see page12 





