
The Observer
/ 

VOL. XXV. NO. 90 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19,1993 

Photo Courtesy ot 1:!111 Mowle 

Irish Impact 
Bill Mowle, the Managing Editor/Photo Editor of the Dome, kicked off a poster benefit for South Bend's Center for the Homeless. Posters are available at the LaFortune Student Center Information Desk for $10. 
Keren: Difference in Middle East mind-set deters peace 
By JESSE BARRETT "discrepancy between states of Middle East," he said. "The things have changed and much Israel is currently making News Writer mind which threatens to un­Palestinians are unable to ac­is still changing. These changes progress in negotiations with dermine the peace process in cept the pragmatic approach are not a signal of the end of a Syria and Jordan on issues such A major difference in mind­the Middle East," Keren said and are in a stage where ques­political and ideological as water rights, disputed sets among Israelis and Pales­yesterday in his lecture "The tions such as sovereignty can­struggle. We should not refer to territories, and mutual ecologi­tinians exists. according to Middle East and the New World not be put aside for pragmatic the Order as an entirely new cal projects, he said. These na­Michael Keren, a professor Order." confidence building measures." situation, but as an opportunity tions show a willingness to from Tel Aviv University. There is a "trend to pragma­"The New World Order is not to play a different ballgame in bargain and put aside ideologi­
This split between pragma­tization of Israeli thinking in a new situation in international international politics." cal differences. tism and idealism is a regards to their role in the politics," Keren said. "Many A signal of this change is that 
see MID EAST I page 4 

Weigle: New center-right relationship may be only alternative in former U.S.S.R. 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ferry sinks, at least 1 ,000 dead 
PETIT GOAVE, Haiti (AP} -A packed ferry carrying up to 1,500 people .sank in stormy seas off Haiti, and only 285 people were known to have survived, the Red Cross said Thursday. 
Survivors told how they clung to floating objects, in one case a bag of charcoal, to stay alive. 
"The sea was full of people," said one survivor, 29-year-old Madeleine Julien, from her hospital bed in this coastal town. "I kept bumping into drowned people." 
The ferry Neptune went down late Tuesday off Petit Goave, 60 miles west of the capital. But communications are so crude outside the capital it took a group of about 60 survivors a day to first report the accident. 
U.S. aircraft and vessels dispatched Thursday to help in search-and-rescue efforts reported "lots of debris and lots of bodies," said Coast Guard spokesman, Cmdr. Larry Mizell, liaison in Port-au­Prince. 
The Coast Guard said it had found more than 100 bodies floating off Petit Goave. Bodies were earlier reported washing up on the beaches of Miragoane, 18 miles to the west of Petit Goave. 
Mizell said there was "no correlation between this and the boat people," referring to the tens of thousands of Haitians who have fled their homeland by sea since the army ousted elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991. 
One survivor, Benjamin Sinclair, told the private Radio Metropole that as many as 1,500 people were aboard the triple-decker 
see HAITI I page 4 

By EMILY HAGE News Writer 
A new state center-right rela­tionship may be the only alter­native to anarchy in the former Soviet Union. according to Mar­cia Weigle, an assistant profes­sor of government. 
In her lecture yesterday, "State Formation and Political Parties in Post-Communist Russia," Weigle. who is an ex­pert on the former Soviet Union and social movements, dis­cussed recent changes in Rus­sian history in terms of two ma­jor waves of state-party rela­tions. 
She said that the first wave, from the spring of 1990 to spring 1992, was because "post-communist reformers and the liberal-democrat coalition failed to consolidate" as a result of disintegrative pressures in the new state and the political party system in addition to the actions of state and party leaders. 
The second wave from the fall of 1992 to the present, involved post-communist state leaders and a center-right statist coalition of parties and interest groups. 
Weigle said that there is a daunting array of tasks for Russian political leaders in the post-Soviet Union, with the most pressing being that of establishing state authority. 
Weigle approached the issue of the present situation in Rus­sia by concentrating on the in­stitutional and social roots of Russian state power. 
"It's really a battle about who controls the government," said Weigle. 
She said that the multi-party system is not predetermined. She continued that though "Russia, of all the reforming communist states, was the least prepared to introduce any kind of political parties," political parties and party blocs were the only effective, if extremely weak, form of political repre­sentation. 
Weigle said that political par­ties transformed state power from within Russia. She noted that the situation was ironic be­cause, though reforming com­munists believed that they could use the state to keep political parties in check, these same parties and electoral blocs succeeded in pushing for change. 
One way they did this was 
in March of 1989 and the spring of 1990, said Weigle. These elections, she said, "indicate the capacity of independent political participation to organize its forces in the face of institutionalized opposition." 
She said that these events were not "something that could have been taken for granted." There was an absence of a moderate right party because of the link between nationalism and hardliners and chauvinists. She said that there were "missed opportunities to link new state power with liberal­democratic party coalition." 
Weigle said that although parties have gained more power in legislature, "their representation in parliament no longer reflects their standing in the political process or among the general public." 
She said that Yeltsin's lack of control over governmental ap­pointees will harm political parties whose candidates were being appointed to government positions. 
Weigle said that the prefer­ability of the "second wave" of state/party relations, the state 
see RUSSIA/page 4 

Junior Parents Weekend Schedule of Events 
Friday 

1 to 7 p.m. Hospitality Room. Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center. 3 p.m. Campus tours depart. Hospitality Room, LaFortune Student Center. 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. "Night on the Town" Gala. J.A.C.C. 
Saturday 

9:30 a.m. to noon Academic Workshops. Arts and Letters. Stepan Center. Business. Washington Hall. Engineering. Cushing Hall. Science. Location determined by program. 
11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Museum Tours. Snite Museum of Art. 1 & 2:30p.m. Shenanigans concert. Annenberg Auditorium. 2 to 4 p.m. Office of Minority Student Affairs open house. 207 LaFortune Student Center. 
2:30 
p.m. Jazz Band concert. Washington Hall. 

2:30 
to 4:30 p.m. ROTC receptions. Pasquerilla Center. 

2:30 
to 4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns open house. 

2:30 
to 4:30 p.m. International Studies Program reception. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. 3 p.m. Campus tours depart. Hospitality Room, LaFortune Student Center. 4 to 5 p.m. NO Alumni Association and Student Alumni Relations Group reception. Concourse, J.A.C.C. 5:30p.m. Mass. South Dome, J.A.C.C. 7 to 10 p.m. "Dinner on Park Avenue." North Dome, J.A.C.C. 


Sunday 

9:30a.m. to noon Farewell Brunch. North Dome, J.A.C.C. 
Further information and a complete schedule are available in the Sarin Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
through self-initiated elections, 

page 2 Friday, February 19,1993 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Memories and thanks: a JPW tribute 
My first memory reaches-------­back almost nineteen years ago. I was sitting on ' 
the kitchen counter, eating . 
cinnamon red hots. For 
some reason, Gammy (my 
grandmother) was in from · 
New York, watching me 
while Mom and Dad were Sean Farnan 
gone for some reason that . I did not know. As my Accent Photo Ed1tor memory jogs back,-. Gammy did not really mind that I was makmg a glutton of myself with the red hots. Next, I remember Mom and Dad coming back with a new-born sister. 
I remember the last day of nursery school. The school invited all of the parents to the school to watch us ride around on tricycles and then have a hot dog lunch. Dad took time o work so that he could come. I remember lobby­
ing hard at lunch to stop at the grocery store on the way home for some of those Double Stuf Oreo cookies that one of the girls in the class had brought for the potluck dessert table. 
I remember those summer days and evenings of grade school when all of the neighborhood kids would flock to our backyard for endless games of kickball. Our supply of band-aids was constantly being taxed with scraped knees and elbows. Mom was continually making pitchers of Kool-Aid to quench the thirsts of the neighborhood youth. 
I remember those nights before the grade school science fairs when Mom and Dad were trying to get my sister and me to start and finish the science projects due the next day. 
I remember the taxi service that Mom and Dad ran to the birthday parties, the roller skating parties, the CYO basketball games and whatever else was on the agenda. 
I remember the days of junior high school. Those days of ups and down. Those days when Mom and Dad had to deal with me and my friends who knew it all and proceeded to let everyone know we knew it. 
I remember the last days before leaving for college. Mom was scurrying around making sure that I had bed sheets, laundry soap and plenty of underwear and socks. Dad worked those paternal miracles of packing more into a car than seemed humanly possible. 
After spending three years here at Notre Dame, I have come to realize that the experiences that I have had with my parents are unique but yet shared by nearly all here. None of us have gotten this far on our own. We have some pretty amazing people behind us. 
To all of the parents out there this weekend, we all have come a long way -thanks for bringing us this far. Thanks for enduring through the Little League games .. ~he neighborhood Kool-Aid stands and the s1bhng rivalries. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Jennifer Habrych Michael O'Hara  Systems Harry Zembillas  
Production Kim Massman  Accent Kenya Johnson  

FORECAST 
Friday, increasing 
cloudy but warmer. 
Highs in teens. Cold 
Friday night with a 
chance of snow. 
Highs in 20s for 
Saturday. 
TEMPERATURES 
H L 
32 20 
47 30 
71 43 
63 43 
20 -03 
27 00 
38 24 
Detroit 25 03 
Indianapolis 24 -08 
Jerusalem 55 45 
London 52 48 
Los Angeles 70 58 
Madrid 61 36 
Minneapolis 00 -09 
Moscow 27 18 

FRONTS: Nashville 33 12 New York 43 25 Paris 51 46 Philadelphia 42 26 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Rome 55 34 Seanle 40 30 Pressure South Bend 25 01 Tokyo 57 46 
Washington, D.C. 46 26



H L 8 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Cos~ coming back to NBC 
• LOS ANGELES -A self-taught artist pleaded no contest Thursday to charges he copied paintings and lithographs by such artists as Norman Rockwell and Marc Chagall, and sold them as originals. Anthony 

OF INTEREST 
• A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 11:30 a.m. in Breen-Phillips Chapel. Father Ernest Bartell will be the celebrant. 
• "Portraits of Catholic Workers," a photographic exhibit 'by Mary Farrell will open Sunday from 3 to 6 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. Subsequent 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY
MARKET UPDATE 
Tetro, 42, pleaded no contest to a conspiracy count and six counts of forging works of Dali, Joan Miro, Biro Yamagata, Chagall and Rockwell. Under a plea bargain, Superior Court Judge Michael Tynan will sentence _Tetro on March 11 to six months in jail and order h1m to perform 200 hours of community service by teaching art. Tetro also must paint a mural on a building or a wall, the site to be determined later. Tetro was accused of forging 67 watercolors and lithographs for distribution nationwide at prices ranging from $3,000 to $2 million apiece. During a 1991 trial, Tetro testified he painted hundreds of works that imitate the styles of the masters, but said he never intended his art to be sold as the genuine artide. 
MGM to make Betty Boop movie 
• LOS ANGELES -The makers of "Driving Miss Daisy" will produce a new animated film about t~e classic cartoon character "Betty Boop," the MGM studiO announced Thursday. Oscar-winners Richard and Lili Zanuck have never made an animated film before but are hopeful the Betty Boop project will be a popular release. "Our version of 'Betty Boop' will focus on the adventures of her pals, Koko and Bimbo, as they travel to Hollywood in search of fame and fortune," Zanuck said. "While our Betty Boop will remain in the '30s, she will have a decidedly modern twist," said Alan Ladd Jr., MGM's co-chairman. Production will begin this year. No release date has been set. 
viewing hours are Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Saturdays from 12 to 2 p.m. and Sundays from 6 to 9 p.m. 
• Students for Environmental Action will hold an organizational meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. All are welcome. 
Whitney Sheets  Elisabeth Heard  
Don Modica  
Sports  
Kevin McGuire  
Business  
Illustrator  John Connorton  
Dave Devine  Mark Krejci  
Susan Marx  
Lab Tech  
Scott Mendenhall  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductton rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 18 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 267,831,380 -.66 to 238.08 S&P COMPOSITE -1.40 to 431.90 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -10 to 3,302.19

UNCHANGED 543 

GOLD -$.30 to $330.70 oz. 
SILVER -$0.02 to $3.633 oz. 

• 
In 1878: Thomas Edison received a patent for his phonograph. 

• 
In 1881: Kansas became the first state to prohibit all alcoholic beverages. 

• 
In 1942: President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an order legalizing the internment of Japanese-Americans. 

• 
In 1945: U.S. Marines landed on the Japanese-held island of lwo Jima in the Western Pacific. 

• 
In 1963: The Soviet Union informed President Kennedy it would withdraw some of its estimated 17,000 Soviet troops in Cuba. 

• 
In 1992: Former Irish Republican Army fighter Joseph Doherty was deported from the U.S. to Belfast, Northern Ireland, ending a 1 0-year battle for asylum. 




-------~----··-~---~---------­
t-nday,t-ebruary HI, 1 !::l!::l::l 1ne uoserver page ::l 

MacCurtain: Irish society favors men Clinton tries to enlist support 
By KATIE MURPHY This inferiority in status set influences further developed 


for his new economic plan 
News Writer the stage for future inequities the patriarchal lifestyle in Ire­
Post-famine society in Ireland favored the social and political development of only the male half of the Irish population, ac­cording to Boston College Pro­fessor Margaret MacCurtain. 
"The social needs of Irish women were not satisfied in the ways that the needs of the males were satisfied," said MacCurtain, who spoke yester­day in the Hesburgh Library lounge on "The Waning of a Patriarchy: Ireland in the 1990s". 'There was an endless round of pleasurable activities (for males). Sport was an open season as well as an open sesame to politics," said Mac­Curtain. 
for Irish women, according to MacCurtain. 
An Irish man's name was tightly linked to his land, said MacCurtain. This connection between the males of a family and the farm enhanced the status of the males of the fam­ily, giving them a more impor­tant position in society, she said. 
Women, however, were told by various sources to simply bear the children and stay home at night, said MacCurtain: 
"There were very few plea­sures in their lives," said Mac­Curtain. "The rural community could not accommodate daughters as they did sons." 
The combination of govern­ment, economic, and church 



The Observer 
IEWPOINT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Rolando de Aguiar by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24,1993. Contact Rolando at 631-4541 for more information about either position. 
land. According to MacCurtain, the concept of patriarch was constantly on the minds of the men in power, and is still rep­resented by the laws of modern Irish society. The place of the woman in the home was rein­forced by stringent controls on contraception, abortion, and information about sexuality, she said. 
"Prevention of abortion in Ireland is seen as the male ownership of women reflected in the state laws and constitu­tion," said MacCurtain. "And in the 1980s, the women's body was high on political agendas, and nowhere more than in Ireland." 
The modern debate on sexual issues launched a strong tide of public response in Ireland. Although MacCurtain said she believes the Irish state is rather "out of tune" with these issues in the country, a strong critique of the male status quo is rising in Ireland. 
The key to an effective voice for women in Ireland is em­powerment, said MacCurtain. 
"Equality is a two way process and gender equality is a goal for modern Ireland," said Mac Curtain. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton led his adminis­tration on a blitz across the map of America Thursday to enlist citizen support for a pain­then-gain economic plan that he said would keep America's children from having to settle for a "lesser life." 
In a campaign-style rally at St. Louis' Union Station, the opening shot in his drive to win America to his side, Clinton said he was "tired of all the naysayers" who would oppose his budget plan. 
"The price of doing the same thing is higher than the price of change," he declared. 
Henry Cisneros, Clinton's housing secretary, carried the pitch to Flint, Mich., still reeling from the closing of a big Gen­eral Motors plant in 1987. He said higher taxes can't be avoided. 
"Taxes -even the word is difficult to express," Cisneros said. "I get dry in the mouth, but it's imperative." 
But even as Treasury Secre­tary Lloyd Bentsen returned to Congress to implore legislators to cast "the vote of a lifetime" for Clinton's plan, a new release 

r---------------------------------------------------, 

FREE CUP OF COFFEE 

Get a free regular size cup of fresh--brewed Java Coast Coffee with purchase of any 
frozen yogurt item. 


We Put ASmile On Your Taste!·· 

expires 2/26/93 : 
L---------------------------------------------------~ 
• See Analysis I page 4 
of fine print from the White House indicated the ad­ministration's deficit cutting to be less dramatic than first por­trayed. 
Republicans, meanwhile, ac­cused Clinton of mounting a propaganda blitz to sell old tax­and-spend solutions disguised in new clothing. 
Clinton brushed off questions about new deficit projections as he set out for the Midwest to generate the grassroots support that will be vital if his plan is to survive attacks by powerful interests, criticism by Re­publicans and misgivings by some fellow Democrats. 
In his maiden appearance be­fore Congress Wednesday night, the president proposed raising taxes, directly or indirectly, for most Americans. His ideas would also cut spending in 150 programs but increase it elsewhere. And, to reinvigorate a soft economy, he would cut some business taxes and un­dertake a quick public works spending program. 
This amounted to "reinventing our government," Clinton told the lawmakers. Failure to take painful steps now, he said, would amount to "condemning our children and our children's children to a lesser life than we enjoyed." 
But the new figures from the White House showed that when full account is taken of the im­pact of spending increases and pro-business tax cuts, the four­year reduction in deficits would not add up to the half-billion dollars ballyhooed by the ad­

• ® . Voted "Best Pizza Delivery to Campus" ..The Observer February, 1993 Papa John's 3.8 overall rating Other comments: Pizza Hut 2.7 overall rating • "Smells like a pizza is supposedDomino's (thin) 2.6 overall rating to" Thank You Notre Dame/St. Mary's! •"I t t. d. , d 1· ht"n eres tng-a tner s e tgr-------, r:-------, r-------,1..-14" Large 1 LLate Night Special I 1 4... 14" Large 1 • "Tangy and Perky"1 11Topping Pizza1 1 1--14" Large 1 1 1 Topping 1 •"All the taste, without the I with stix I I 1'"[i · p· I I I attitude"0I and 2 cans of soda I I $PSP~~g tzza I I Pizza I I $1ooo +Tax I I -+Tax I I $1995 +Tax I •"Best buy for a cheap pizza" tJJnionaiToppings.95¢each .....I IAJJitionalToppin:':,:,~.~:-m...l IAJJitionaiToppings.95¢each .....I • "All elements work together-it's I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon ...________.J I Nut Valid With Any Other Coupon... _______.J INot Valid With Any Other Coupon... _______.J •a team ptzza" Free Delivery 271,1177 Fast • Hot • Perfect  


r 
pra_g_e_4~~~--~--------------------~~~~~--~~~T~h"e~O;b;s~e~N~e~r~~~--~~~~~------------~~~F~ri~da~y~,~F~ebruary19, 1993 

I r 


wAs:~~~t~~-~~ogra~m~;~~~l~~,~~~~~ caot;~i,!~ page'
details of President Clin·
~ 
policies surface, it's be·
clear just how funda· lrn••nt,~• a change he is propos­the way government does ""·"'~h~~. The unraveling of the ld Reagan tegaey is lutrJtt.,.n across scores of Clinton changes, large and 
afraid so," the f9rmer ent said, answering his 
question as be took strong e with Clinton's assertion,. he wants to tax mCJst tlwse did well in the 1980s. "I)() really believe that those 
o have worked hard and successful should som~~ be punished for it?"' asked Reagan. From huge cuts in defense 1:.v•,.,uanK and the scaling back AJt11'\t>r•c:htP. but pQpUhtr-pro­the space station. to creases in programs for 
infants and children. to pread tax increases 
1 ' ........... ·· 

the wealthiest the hard· the remodeling is every· 
not only in the big items, the little ones as well as the Democratic president in 12 seeks to impose a more 
'""''·'VI'~· goverrunent.'s spending proposal iut~-•u•L.l~~ dozens of items such 
Russia 
continued from page 1 

party-bloc making Yeltsin re­formers to slow down the pace 

ast 
continued from page 1 

Israel has also offered to ne­gotiate with the Palestinians over topics such as autonomy and elections, but the Palestini­ans are not willing to bargain over practical issues until their sovereignty is recognized, ac­cording to Keren. 
America must play a part in the peace process, he said. 
"The role of the United States could be that of looking inwards to economic afl"airs and abandoning concern over the New World Order. America can't fall into this sort of isolation; however, because Middle East violence and fundamentalism directly threaten and affect our interests," said Keren. 
Ill ALUMNI 



~!:CLUB 
Apply today for the best job 
Rodgers~,
Hammerstem s


in the whole world! 
OKLAHOMA\ 
Music by

Applications can be picked up in the 
RICHARD RODGERS BooK and Lyrics by 
oscAR HAMMERSIEIN 

Student Activities Office 
Based on the play 

Green Grow rhe Uacs

3rd floor LaFortune 
by Lynn Riggs 

Original Da~ by 
AGNES DE MillE

Deadline: March 5, 1993 
She said that Russia is "caught between the Scylla of democratic fragmentation and 
"The C inton administration should try to pragmatize dia­logue and convince Palestinians of the importance of the current peace process. There is an opportunity for a Middle East 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 
A GREAT WAY TO GET TOGETHER WITH FRIENDS 
CALL NOW -STILL LIMITED ROOM FOR JPW 
Make Reservations Now! Reservations Recommended. 
219-255-1526 
Tues-Thurs Seating 5p.m.-9p.m. Fri-Sat Seating 5p.m.-IOp.m. 100 Center • Mishawaka, In 
Upper Level Old Brewery Building 
ferry, although Mizell said port authorities in Port-au-Prince sold 800 tickets for the overnight trip. 
Sinclair, a 32-year-old bus driver, said he clung to a bag of charcoal from 11 p.m. Tuesday
until fishermen picked him up at 4 p.m. Wednesday. 
He said the vessel was cruis­ing in a rainstorm and, as con­ditions worsened, passengers panicked. 
Julien, a street merchant, said "the seas and storm tossed the 150-foot Neptune from side to side. 
People crowded atop the ferry were knocked screaming into the waters, she said. Farm animals on board floated away. 
Julien was separated from six family members, who are pre­sumably all drowned. 
She and other survivors said there were no life jackets or life boats on board. People had lit­tle chance of surviving unless they were lucky enough, as Julien was, to grab an object to stay afloat. 
Mizell said one of the sur­vivors indicated "many of the people went to one side of the vessel, which may have con­tributed to the problem they had." 
Military authorities in Jeremie, speaking on condition of anonymity, said one of the three decks of the vessel had collapsed. 
ine 
Left-Right opposition." New state leaders may have to rely on on a social base with political and economic interests that are unlike the ones that 




The Observer 
put reformist state leaders in office, Weigle said. 

is now accepting applications 
solution and the Palestinians cannot afford to miss it. The 

for the following position: whole peace process is pragmatic, and the Palestinians could well be left out," Keren said. 
Design Editor 
Source: U.S. Coast Guard AP 
The reports did not say how far off shore the vessel was when it sank. Thus far, no one has identified the head of the ship, though Julien said it was a man named "Capt. Julio." 
Haitian Red Cross Director Jonel Charles said 285 sur­vivors had been accounted for by Thursday evening. He said others may have made it to shore. 
Haiti's military approved flights by U.S. aircraft over the disaster scene and allowed Coast Guard cutters in the re­gion to help in the rescue effort. 
Musical Direction by NANCY MENK Choreography by INDI DIECKGRAFE Set & Lighting Design by SHAUN L. WELLEN Costumes by SYDNEY WELLEN 
Ttusday · Salmlay 
-FEBRUARY 25-27, 8:00P.M. 
&rlday 
FEBRUARY 28,2:30 P.M. OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS: $5 (SM"S-ND community with valid i.d.) Available at the Saint Mary·s Box Office Otaughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 9a.m.-5 p.m. Charge Orders and Information: 284-4626 



~-------~-------­
t""naay, t""eoruary 1~. 1~~;j 1ne uoserver 
Catholic Worker movement exhibition opens at esc 
Special to The Observer 
An exhibition of some 50 pho­tographic portraits of people involved in the Catholic Worker movement will open at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns Sunday, Feb. 21 from 3 to 6 p.m. 
The photographs were taken by Mary Farrell, a freelance photographer who lives and works at the Dan Corcoran Catholic Worker House in Winona, Minn. 
In 1989, Farrell began a year­long journey visiting many of the country's nearly 100 Catholic Worker communities, including the Holy Family Catholic Worker House in South Bend. Living and working with her subjects for extended peri­ods, she hoped to provide, on film, a visual compliment to written and spoken accounts of the movement. 
"What it means to be a Catholic Worker is written on the faces of these servants of the poor, and we witness their journey of the soul," she said 

Ban AIDS immigrants, Senate votes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate voted Thursday to bar AIDS-infected foreigners from immigrating permanently to the United States, a lopsided defeat for President Clinton that left the White House groping for what to do next. 
Clinton had promised during the campaign that he would lift a ban already in place, but right after the vote the White House seemed to run up the white flag. 
"If you look at the vote mar­gin, he doesn't have that many options," said spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers. "He's going to review it; I think the Senate made a pretty strong statement about it." 
Sen. Don Nickles, R-Okla., thought so, too, and said the 76-23 vote on his amendment should send the administration a message that letting people with the AIDS virus into the country and letting homosexu­als into the military are politi­
cally unpopular. "Frankly, I think President Clint_on made a lot of promises 

to special interest groups that are not in sync with the Ameri­can people, and this is one of them," Nickles said. 
Myers suggested that Clinton had not put up much of a fight on the AIDS issue in the Senate. 
"The president has been re­viewing his options on this for the last several weeks, but he's been working primarily on his economic plan," she said. 
Up to now, the immigration ban has been a matter of policy that the administration could change. But Nickles' amend­ment would make that policy federal law. 
His amendment is attached to a bill that authorizes spending for the National Institutes o Health. The bill itself later passed 93-4 and now goes to the House, where a similar ef­fort is under way to put the ban into law. 
Before approving Nickles' amendment, the Senate de­feated a move by Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., that would have kept current federal policy in place for 90 days but left Clinton free to change it after that. 
Kennedy, whose measure lost on a 56-42 vote, said the United States had obligations that extend beyond its borders. Such obligations, he said, would include political refugees who should not be denied U.S. government protection simply because they have caught a virus. 

Kevorkian assists in two more suicides 


The Catholic Worker move­ment was founded in 1933 by two Catholic laypersons, Dorothy Day, a freelance writer, and Peter Maurin, a homeless epigrammatist. 
The movement began as a publishing project, its founders intending little more than to distribute a radical newspaper devoted to the social program of the Catholic Church. 
Its editorial offices in the New York slums soon expanded to accommodate a pacifist and an­archist Catholic community de­voted to voluntary poverty, hospitality and the recognition of Christ in the poor. The movement has grown over the years into a loose confederation of such communities. 
The exhibition is sponsored by Notre Dame student gov­ernment and the Student Union Board. It will be at the Center for Social Concerns until April 2, and accessible Mondays through Fridays from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., Saturdays from noon to 2 p.m., and Sundays from 6 to 9 p.m. 
It''s Back... Footstolllpin~ Friday 
at Saint Mary :S Friday~ February 26•h 
Watch for Details 
WATERFORD, Mich. (AP) ­Dr. Jack Kevorkian assisted two more suicides Thursday, bringing to 15 the number of people he has helped die since 1990. 
Kevorkian, an advocate of physician-assisted suicide, has speeded up his work as a March 30 deadline approaches. On that date, a Michigan law making assisting suicide a felony carrying a four-year 
---------~----­
page o 1ne uoserver t-nday, t-eoruary 1~. 1~~:.:! 

Elders: Teaching abstinence does not work 
ALEXANDHIA, Va. (AP) ­
Teach.ing teenagers sexual 
abstinence hasn't stopped them 
from getting pregnant or 
contracting AIDS, so schools 
should step in with other kinds 
of information, the nation's next 
surgeon general said Thursday. 
"Every mother I know, every 
teacher I know, every minister I 
know has been teaching ab­
stinencn for a thousand years. 
We know thny're not abstain­
ing," said Dr. Joycelyn Elders, 
chosen for the health post by 
President Clinton. 

Elders, now state health chief 
in Arkansas, will succeed Dr. 
Antonia Novello, who steps 
down in June. 

In a speech to a National School Boards Association panel on school health pro­grams and in later comments, Elders said many parents are ill-equipped to properly teach their children about pregnancy or sexually transmitted diseases such as AIDS. 
"People always say let the parents take care of it," she said. "Well, nobody ever taught them, so they don't know how to teach their children." 
She said 52 percent of chil­dren don't go to church and can't receive instruction there. 
Elders, 59, is an outspoken pediatrician who has been a target of conservatives and anti-abortion groups since 1987, when then Gov. Clinton made her the first black person and the first woman to head the Arkansas Health Department. 
Her resolute support of con­dom distribution in schools as a means of combatting teen pregnancy and AIDS raised the ire of conservative and Chris­tian groups in Arkansas, which has the nation's second highest pregnancy rate among teenagers. Clinton ignored calls for her resignation. 
When word of her impending appointment as surgeon general 
Correction 
In a story in yesterday's issue, The Observer incorrectly reported a statement made during Wednesday's Iceberg Debate by Sheila Moloney of the Breen-Phillips' team. Moloney said that Notre Dame should not compare il'ielf with secular universities in part because those universities place technical research, such as fetal tissue studies, ahead of ethical research. Notre Dame banned research with human fetal tissue as contrary to its Catholic nature. 
The Observer regrets the error. 





rorienf~ 
Yourself 
~  ~  
Tokyo  $400*  
Hons Ions  $430*  
..nskok  $415*  
Slns~~PC»rc,.lutn•  $505* $615*  

•FIRS n eadl Wtry from ChfQISO based al roundtrip r:xxcnase. T&<es not included «1d restrfctlcm apply. Call lbr Olher 'M:lfidwide df:s!Ntions, boch ale Wlrf lind rolrldtrip. 
Council Trauwd 
1153 N.De«bom St. lind ftoor Chlc4go,n6061o 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Fn:~ Stud~nt Trav~ls Magazmc' 

leaked in Washington, the National Right to Life Commit­tee called her a "pro-abortion extremist." 
Elders said Thursday her primary goal as surgeon gen­eral would be a reduction in the teen pregnancy rate, a goal she never achieved in Arkansas. 
"The agenda in my mind is to make every child born in America a planned, wanted child," she said. "If I take care of that problem ... I will have done a lot." 
But Elders said she promoted school clinics because they could reach one-fifth of the na­tion's population with primary preventive health services. 
"You have a person in the White House who wants to push school health," she said. "You can't educate children if they're not healthy and you can't keep them healthy if they're not educated." 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent and a resume to Meredith McCollough by 5 p.m., Monday, February 22, 1993. For questions about any of the positions, call Meredith at 631-5323. 
Healing and the Mind with Bill Moyers February 22-23-24 on WNIT Television 
Broadcast journalist Bill Moyers reports on a new dimension to healing that reveals a connection between mind and body. In the course of the five segments, Moyers talks with professionals conducting mind-body research. In addition, Fr. David Burrell moderates a local segment 10:30 Tuesday evening on WNIT. 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22-9:00-11 :00 pm 
The Mystery ofChi 

In Bejing and Sanghai, Bill Moyers explores traditional Chinese medicine and ils 
approach to healing. 

The Mind Body Connection 
The medical professionals on the frontier of mind-body research struggling to understand how 1houghts, emotions, and even personalities can affect physical health. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23-9:00-10:30 pm 
Healing From Within 

Aprofile of two therapies that involve nei1her drugs nor surgery. The Stress Reduction Clinic at1he University of Massachusetts Medical Center teaches meditation t1 petienls suffering from medical problems such as high blood pressura, heart disease, and chronic back pain. The Stanford University School of Medicine shows how group psyc:holherBJ71 may prolong lives. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23-10:30-11 :00 pm 
Healing and the Mind: A M/ch/ana Perspective. 
David Burrell, CSC, Theodon1 Hnburgh Proln10r ol Phllo8ophy 11K1 Theology 81 
the Unlven~lty of Notn1 Dime, leads health care professionals from our community in a 
discussion about a new orientation in 1he medical fiekl--toward integrating mind and body 
in 1he recovery process, and in health maintenance. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24-9:00 -11 :00 pm 
The Art of Healing 

Moyers looks ala model of medical care based on 1he idea 1hat emotional states play an important role in people's vulnerability to disease--and to 1heir recovery. 
Wounded Healers 

Commonweal is a ratreat in California that helps people wi1h cancer understand the experience of illness as apart of life. 
Screening and study group is scheduled klr Thursday, 6:30pm at the Cenler for Continuing Ed. For more infonnation cell Laura Coyne, WNIT Public TV, 674-5961 Funding for educational materials is provided by TI-E FETZER INSTITUTE 

-............---~---~-----~-­
_.,...____ 
Friday, February 19,1993 
Christopher calls for peace in Middle East 
CAIRO (AP) -Secretary of State Warren Christopher chal­lenged Arabs and Israelis on Thursday to strike compromises quickly or risk diminished U.S. interest in pressing the Mideast peace process. 
"There are important oppor­tunities here that should not be missed by the parties," Christopher said on his arrival in Cairo, the first stop on a week-long tour of the region and his first trip abroad since taking office. 
"We have come to the region ready to do our best, and we will be assessing whether the parties are ready to do theirs," he said. 
A senior U.S. official told re­porters en route from Wash­ington that the Arab-Israeli conflict "can't continue to have a high priority if we're pushing against a closed door." 
The official, declining to be identified, said, "It's a big world with lots of things to do ... You have to have some indication of willingness on their part to take some of the tough decisions." 
The talks on borders, peace and Palestinian self-rule are "festering" and even "stalemated," the official said. 
After a series of stops here, in Jordan; Syria, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Israel, Christopher will report his findings to President Clinton. 
"He'll be inclined to gauge whether or not, as we go around, there's a serious en­deavor here on their part," the official said. 
In Moscow, the Russian For­eign Ministry said it "welcomes this important initiative of the new American administration." 
The statement said Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozsyrev .spoke with Christo­pher by telephone before the trip. It said they discussed sev­eral issues connected with the Middle East peace process but gave no details. 



The Observer 
PHOTO DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Accent Photo Editor 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jake Peters by 5 p.m., Tuesday, February 23. Contact Jake at 631-5323 for more information about any position. 

The Observer Page 7 

The ObserverfT. J. Harris 

Not under the influence 
Members of SADD show students the possibilities of fun without alcohol as they serve non-alcoholic drinks, called "mock tails." SADD sponsored the alcohol-free event. 
Plane en route to Miami hijacked 
MIAMI (AP) -A gunman seized a hostage at a Haitian airport, hijacked a missionary group's plane with 12 others aboard and ordered it to Miami on Thursday, an official said. 
But the gunman surrendered his weapon to the crew about 2 1/2 hours after he comman­deered the plane, before it reached Miami, said a federal law enforcement source who spoke on condition of anonymity. The source also said the hijacker was a soldier. 
The hijacker shot a hole in the ceiling of the plane before it took off, but no injuries were reported, said Kathleen Bergen, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration in Atlanta. 
The plane, an aging twin-prop DC-3, refueled without incident in Providenciales Island in the Turks and Caicos before flying toward Miami, Bergen said. 
The plane was carrying 10 passengers, all believed to be 
U.S. citizens, and a crew of two when the hijacker boarded with a woman he took hostage on the ground in Cap Haitien in northern Haiti, Bergen said. 
"I have no know idea of any of his demands other than he wants to go to Miami," she said. 
She said the plane was due at Miami International Airport shortly before 7 p.m. 
The FBI was planning to be there when the plane arrived, said Wendi Jackman, airport spokeswoman. The U.S. Cus­toms Service sent up a Citation jet to accompany the plane into the airport, according to the Coast Guard office in Miami. 
It wasn't immediately known whether the hijacking was re­lated to Haitian refugee crisis. Tens of thousands of Haitians have fled the impoverished Caribbean nation by sea since· the army ousted the country's first democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aris­tide, in 1991. 
American policy has been to intercept the refugees at sea, though some have reached Florida. 
The hijacked plane was owned by Missionary Flight International, based in West Palm Beach, Fla. A spokesman for the missionary service said he had no information on the hijacking. 
Bergen said she had no in­formation on security proce-

Come see World Champion Pool Player 

Nick Varner 
on Februarv 24th as he plays against Notre Dame's Campus Champion 
in the Ballroom at 8:00p.m. 
Admission is free and popcorn will be served!!! 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 
dures in place at the Cap Hai­tien airport because the FAA doesn't evaluate security there. She said the agency was getting its information on the hijacking from government sources in Haiti. 
DC-3 twin-prop transports, able to carry 21 passengers, began service in 1936 and be­came the most widely used air­liner in history. 
The missionary group's flight had been scheduled to fly back to West Palm Beach, said Dave Bowen, operations director at Palm Beach International Air­port. "They've been based out of this airport for years," he said. "They take food, medical supplies and such to Haiti out of Palm Beach." 
Two Haitian soldiers fired their way aboard another mis­sionary plane in Cap Haitien and landed in Miami in April 1989 after an unsuccessful coup attempt. 
In June 1989, four Haitians hijacked an Antillean Airlines flight during a stop in Haiti and tried to take the plane to New York but were arrested during a stop on the Caribbean island of Curacao. 

CDC: Pregnant minorities at higher risk 
ATLANTA (AP) -The first federal study of births compli­cated by diabetes shows mi­norities are at highest risk be­cause they don't get prenatal care to detect and control the disease, health officials re­ported Thursday. 
"This is a very clear case of a disease where we have clear risks and clear interventions that can prevent serious com­plications," said Robert Ger­man of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Women must get early and continuous prenatal care." 
Doctors knew that blacks, 
Hispanics, Asians and Indians 
get diabetes more often than 
whites. For example, the rate 
of diabetes in 1989 was 25.2 
cases per 1,000 white women 
compared with 43.4 cases 
among black women. 
They also suspected that mi­
norities were at further risk 
from diabetes during preg­
nancy because they got less 
prenatal care, but they had 
never been able to track that, 
German said. 

page 8 The Observer t-nday, t-ebruary 1 ~. 1~~::i 


U.N to pursue war crimes court 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The five permanent members of the Security Council agreed Thursday that an international court should be set up to punish war eriminals in former Yu­goslavia. 
The United States, Britain, Franee and Russia had backed the concept, but did not win China's support until Thursday, diplomats said. 
The t11xt of a draft resolution they agreed on will ask Secre­tary-General Boutros Boutros­Ghali to study ways to set up the eourt, which would be lim­ited to atrocities in the Yugoslav conflicts. 
The draft text contained little detail on the structure or working of the court. But it said war crimes committed after Jan. 1, 1991, would be pun­ished by the court. Diplomats said that was an arbitrary date. 
Agreement on the text by the five permanent Security Council powers virtually assured passage of the resolution, which was drafted and sponsored by France. 
In October, the Security Council authorized a commis­sion to gather evidence of war crimes, a process similar to that which led to the Nuremberg trials of Nazi war criminals after World War II. 
The 1945-49 Nuremberg tri­als of Nazi war criminals estab­lished a chain of responsibility for collective war crimes. Nazi leaders -including Hermann Goering, Martin Bormann and Joachim von Ribbentrop ­were condemned to death. 
The U.N. commission, led by Tadeusz Mazowiecki, Poland's first post-Communist premier, has said it was overwhelmed by reports of atrocities. It said crimes were committed by all sides in the Balkan conflict, but blamed Serbs for the bulk of them. 
Among its findings were mass graves; evidence of systematic rape of Muslim women by Serbs; and the "ethnic cleansing" campaigns of terror to drive minorities from areas dominated by a particular group. 
Any trials from the wars in former Yugoslav states would be based on the 1949 Geneva Convention on the treatment of civilians during war. The con­vention outlaws mass deporta­tions and attacks on civilians, hospitals and mercy missions. 

ANC agrees to 5 years of multiparty rule 
SOWETO, South Africa (AP)­The African National Congress (ANC) formally agreed on Thursday to govern jointly with whites and other parties for up to five years after the end of apartheid. 
The announcement, following three days of meetings by the ANC's top leaders, was seen as an important compromise in the delicate black-white political negotiations. 
But the ANC also tried to as­sure supporters it would hold the strongest share of power if, as expected, it captured the country's first all-race election. Militant members of the na­tion's biggest black party had opposed multiparty rule. 
"The objective will be to unite our country, to bring about stability, to ensure we embark 
SECURITY BEAT 

on a reconstruction program with other parties," Cyril Ramaphosa, the ANC's secre­tary-general, said at a news conference in this black town­ship outside Johannesburg. 
At this point, key differences remain between the govern­ment and ANC. But they appear to be converging on the idea of a multiracial, multiparty government that would lead South Africa out of the apartheid era. 
Ramaphosa said joint rule would not last more than five years, while President F. W. de Klerk has spoken of permanent power-sharing entrenched in a new constitution. 
All parties receiving at least five percent of the vote in a multiracial election would be represented in the interim government, but the largest party would wield the most power, Ramaphosa said. That likely would be the ANC. 
"Our idea ... means the prin­ciple of majority rule should not be sacrificed in any way," Ramaphosa said. 
He said the ANC opposed de Klerk's plan for an interim government on grounds it would give too much power to minority parties such as whites. 
"We see minority powers not having the power to frustrate decisions," Ramaphosa said. 
The ANC also favors a strong presidency, while de Klerk has called for a weak presidency possibly to be shared among leaders of the largest political parties. 



·Turtle Creek A 
Missed Valentine's Day? 
IRISH GARDENS SALE! 
• I dozen roses-$20.  • I /2 dozen roses-$ I 0  
• pre-made bouquets­ • carnations/ daisies­ 
$2 (reg. $4)  $ I per stem  

Basement of LaFortune 
12:30-5:30 

Visa/MC accepted Delivery to ND/SMC/Off Campus 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms Furnished Studios Pool &Volleyball 






Whenthe Great 
Laundry Facility 
Now Accepting
I'JD Shuttle Service 
Applications
City Bus Line 

American Dream 
2/10 of a mile from campus 
Affordable Student Housing 

isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Applications for Senior Formal Co-Chairperson 
are now available at the Junior Class Office (2nd 
Call or write for information: 
floor of LaFortune). 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385
Applications are due March 1, 1993. 
1HAppy 21 ~ BiRT~dAy 

~Country :Harvester Presents 
IRISH,.VILLAGE
KATiA N. 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame Buildings 
The Village is Growing! 
We are Pleased to Announce Additions to Our Collection of Notre Dame Buildings
KEEp 5Milirvql 
-~­
~~\ 

t£~c[usive{y avai[a6[e at %e Country !1-{arvester
lovE, 

rryr (jreat Litt{e (jift Sliop"

DAd, MoM 
.La~ortune Student Center Lower Leve{ officiaf[y [iscensetfprotfuct ofthe V.niversity of'1\(ptre 'Dame

ANd MElisA 
(219) 631-6714 ''.9L Co[fection of?r{eTtWries" 



0-_. 







Business 
Friday, February 19, 1993 page 9 
l,•I_JI t t l I 1 ,. •t' 1 , .. , ""' ... •t "I '1"'-1 


BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Nuclear plant sues Westinghouse 
•PORTLAND -The operator of the Trojan nuclear plant sued Westinghouse Electric Corp. for fraud Wednesday, saying it sold a defective steam generator system that led to the plant's shutdown 18 years early. No specific claim for monetary damages was listed in the lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in Pittsburgh. Estimates for the bill to close the plant early have ranged to more than a half-billion dollars. Westinghouse spokeswoman called the lawsuit groundless. PGE and Westinghouse have been pointing fingers at each other since the utility decided Jan. 4 to shut down Trojan because of microscopic cracks in steam generator tubes. The lawsuit claims Westinghouse knew that the steam generator designed for the nuclear plant was faulty and steam tubes were subject to corrosion and cracking. 
Investors wary about Clintonts plan
•NEW YORK -Worried investors sold more stocks in a second day of market apprehension over President Clinton's tax~ boosting economic plan. The losses on Wall Street weren't as severe as on Tuesday, when the Dow Jones average of 30 big~ company stocks posted the biggest single~day drop since November 1991. The Dow average rose slightly, but stocks in general were broadly lower. Market analysts attributed the behavior to twin concerns about Clinton's plan: raising taxes on most Americans will stall an economic recovery, and cuts in government spending are far less than envisioned. 
Head of S&L Agency To Resign
•WASHINGTON-The head of the agency that disposes of failed savings and loan institutions, Albert V. Casey,. will resign in two months, he told employees Thursday. Casey,72, is also president of the Resolution Trust Corp. He was appointed by the Bush administration to reorganize the agency which was suffering under a convoluted management structure that included two boards. The agency takes over failed S&Ls and dismantles them, either by closing them or selling off the assets. A former postmaster general and former chairman of American Airlines, Casey let it be known privately that he would stay on at the agency if the Clinton administration asked. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton's proposed energy tax is designed to spread the pain, but it takes its hardest toll on the users of petroleum ­motorists who will pay higher gasoline prices and people who heat their homes with oil. 
The Energy Department es­timated that the tax will prompt new conservation and by the end of the decade reduce oil imports by 350,000 barrels a day. But the department said the tax is not severe enough to prompt significant switching of fuels. 
The tax, which if approved by Congress would be phased in over three years beginning in July 1994, is pegged to the amount of energy content in each fuel as measured by Btu, or British thermal unit. Only solar and wind power are ex­empted from the tax, officials said. 
According to the Treasury Department, the tax when it comes into full force would raise the price of a gallon of ga­soline by 7 1/2 cents a gallon, home-heating oil by 8 1/4 cents, natural gas by 26 1/4 cents per thousand cubic feet and the average monthly electric bill by $2.25. 
On average nationwide, the tax was estimated to cost a family of four, with an income of $40,000 a year, an additional 

Energy tax hits petroleum users 
$118 annually in increased costs for electricity, heating and transportation by 1997, accord­ing to department estimates. 
But different fuels have dif­ferent energy content and the tax is structured to take particular aim at oil. 
Petroleum, which already is more expensive than coal and natural gas per unit of energy it releases, will be taxed at more than twice the rate -60 cents per million BTUs -applied to other energy sources. Coal, natural gas, nuclear and hydro­electric energy will have a tax of 26 cents per million BTUs. 
One British thermal unit is the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. 
The average residential household uses about 100 mil­lion Btus of energy a year, about a third of that for electricity, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates. 
Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary said the tax would "reduce our reliance on unsta­ble foreign sources of oil" curb­ing petroleum use. 
The tax brought quick criti­cism from the petroleum indus­try. 
"It's a thinly disguised gaso­line tax ... and a job killer on a mammoth scale," said Charles 
Clinton: Airlines should blame themselves 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A con­gressional investigation of the airline industry's money mis­eries began Wednesday with the Clinton administration chiding airlines for contributing to their own woes by overexpanding. 
Other critics, including the head of USAir, were far harsher. Some accused the nation's three largest airlines of adding hundreds of planes to their fleets to drive smaller competitors out of business. 
The so-called Big Three ­United, Delta and American ­said their expansion has been prudent. 
The growth has been ''far more than needed." said Patrick Murphy, an acting assistant secretary of transportation testifying for the administration. lie said recent expansion by the Big Three equaled the creation of two IHJW major airlines. 
Hut he told a !louse Public 
Works subcommittee on avia­tion that the major airlines ap­peared to be well-intentioned, anticipating additional passen­gers who never appeared. 
"The industry was used to a level of growth we haven't seen in five years," Murphy said. Airline travel is about the same as 1988. 
The industry has lost $8 bil­lion over the last three years. 
Elsewhere in the capital, Robert Daniell, chief executive officer of United Technologies Corp.. told labor representatives and Connecticut lawmakers that the industry situation is worsening. Calls come in daily from airlines and air frame makers canceling or reducing orders, said Daniell, whose company is the parent of jet engine maker Pratt & Whitney. 
Daniell hinted that his com­pany may have to lay off more than it announced just last month, which was 10,000 over the next two years. "That number is not fixed in con­crete," he said. "It's a function of the business volume which is still changing -unfortunately negatively." 
The administration is con­cerned that airlines will go out of business, reducing competi­tion in the industry, Murphy said. "A lot of damage could be done while we wait for eco­nomic growth," he said. 
Murphy appeared in place of Transportation Secretary Fed­erico Pena, who was working on parts of President Clinton's economic package to be un­veiled Wednesday night. 
Pena joined congressional leaders Tuesday in proposing a commission to develop solutions to the airline industry's problems within 90 days. 
The aviation subcommittee, headed by Rep. Jim Oberstar, D-Minn., will hold three days of hearings this week and next. 

Oberstar and Public Works Committee Chairman Norman Mineta, D-Calif.. questioned why the Big Three expanded so aggressively when the economy was in recession. 
Some airlines "seem to be concerned primarily that the plague ·will recede before killing off your pesky neighbor," Mineta said. "It is not at all clear that the industry is unanimous in wanting a cure for the plague, at least not a cure that arrives too quickly." 
Oberstar said that from 1988 to 1992 the Big Three added 445 aircraft while the rest of the industry reduced their fleets by 149 planes. 
"The miscalculation was driven by the Big Three, the ones with deep pockets. not the whole industry," he said. 
Kuwait continues to test OPEC cartel's resolve 
VIENNA, Austria (APJ -OPEC's uneasy resolve to cut oil output will be sorely tested these next few weeks by mem­bers who took exception to the accord. 
The cartel ended four days of tough negotiations late Tuesday by pledging to curb runaway oil production, sending a message it was intent on keeping crude prices from falling further this spring. 
But there was initial skepti­cism the dozen nations of the Organization of Petroleum Ex­porting Countries would live up to their promises this time around. 
"The next few weeks will be key," said Ann-Louise Hittle, senior oil analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. in New York. "They'll be eyeing each other very closely because they're obviously anxious to protect market share." Kuwait, which is trying to bring its oil production back to the levels before it was invaded by Iraq, told other members it would fight back if anyone cheats on the deal. 
Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali al­Baghli told reporters his coun­try would pump to capacity "at the first sign that the others are not respecting" their new out­put limits. 
Such overproduction could wreck the deal and cause oil prices to tumble. 
The accord calls for cutting nearly 1.5 million barrels of oil a day from current levels on March 1. setting the new pro­duction ceiling at 23.6 million barrels a day through June. 
The oil markets initially re­acted with pessimism to the ac­cord, which follows several failed attempts to cut output. Light sweet crude for March delivery slipped 45 cents a bar­rei to $19.53 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
The average price of an OPEC marker has been running more than $3 a barrel under the cartel's target of $21 a 42­gallon barrel. 
OPEC desperately sought the output cutback because of fear prices would plunge in the spring, when oil demand typi­cally eases in the United States and other big oil-consuming nations. 
OPEC Secretary-General Subroto predicted the clamp­down on producton would have a "substantial impact on the market." 
But Paul Mlotok, head of en­ergy research at Morgan Stan­ley in New York, said that "oil prices should remain stable in the range" of the last few weeks. 
The agreement nearly un­raveled Tuesday morning after Iran, Nigeria and others turned down Kuwait's demand for as­surances it could pump more in the summer. 

Kuwait, rebounding from Persian Gulf War damage to its oil fields, had argued it should be given an exemption because it needs to pump as much as possible to pay off $50 billion in costs for the war and recon­struction. 
But Saudi Arabia, the cartel's most influential member and the world's No. 1 oil producer, pressed it to accept cutbacks. Nigeria, a large impoverished nation, also insisted Kuwait contribute. 
Under the new accord, Saudi Arabia can produce 8 million barrels a day in spring, down from about 8.4 million barrels a day. 
Iran, the cartel's No. 2 pro­ducer, was given an output level DiBona. president of the Amer­ican Petroleum Institute. The API predicted that gasoline prices could jump as much as 10 to 15 cents, much higher than Energy Department esti­mates. 
of 3.3 million barrels a  day,  
down  from  January's  3.5  
million barrels a day.  

Environmentalists said that the tax represented a step to­ward reducing carbon dioxide emissions and help combat the so-called greenhouse effect and global warming because it would curb some use of fossil fuels. especially coal and oil. 
But because the tax also ap­plies to nuclear power. hydro­electric power and natural gas, energy experts said they did not expect a significant shifting of fuels and most reductions in use of fossil fuels would likely come through conservation. 
Critics of the tax, including many Republican lawmakers, were expected to argue that the tax will make U.S. industry less competitive with foreign com­panies and unfairly affect the poor. 
Jobless 
benefits 



extended 
WASHINGTON {AP} Democrats rushed the first item of President Clinton's economic program to the House floor on Thursday, giving committee approval to a $5.6 billion measure that extends unemployment benefits for the longterm jobless. 
In a preview of the year's political tensions, Republicans complained that their efforts to alter the $5.6 billion legislation were thwarted by Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee. 
"On the one hand Clinton extends an olive branch to Re­publicans,'' complained Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas. "You saw what happened -they wouldn't take any amend­ment." 
The panel sent the bill to a House on a voice vote; it cast a party-line, 23-14 vote to limit amendments on the House floor. Debate is set for next Wednesday. 
"This is the opening shot," Archer said. "If that's going to be the policy all the way through, they they've got the votes to pass whatever they want to. Anything we might propose is not going to go anywhere." 
The measure provides for another seven-month exten­sion of the emergency unem­ployment compensation pro­gram, which gives workers who have exhausted their regular, 26-weeks worth of state unemployment benefits with up to another 26 weeks or benefits. 
Right now, the program is set to expire March 7. and Congress plans to pass the new extension by that date. The emergency legislation would extend it through early October; no one who filed a claim after Oct. 2, 1993, would be eligible. Those in the program before that could get benefits until Jan. 15, 1994. 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, February 19, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ... Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 

Hegarding the Feb. 12 ac­count of the Louis Putz lecture on Lourdes, I would like to offer what I believe is an important clarification of the "handful of the supposed healings ... scien­tifically appraised as 'miracles.'" 
First of all. medical authori­ties do not make a determina­tion as to whether a cure is a "miraele." The Ordinary of the diocese in which the cured per­son lives makes that determi­nation. Since 1858, only 65 bishops -on the basis of overwhelming medical evidence -have seen fit to publicly confirm that specific healings at Lourdes are "miracles" attributed to Divine interven­tion. That does not mean other cures, found to be medically in­explicable by competent medi-cal committees on the basis of overwhelming medical evi­dence, are not "miracles." 

For example, some bishops believe there is no need to fur­ther document the power of God or the intervention of His Blessed Mother. Moreover, de­terminations that a cure is, in fact, a miracle commonly take from ten to twenty-five or even thirty-five years. 
Secondly, in 1990, the direc­tor of the Lourdes Medical Bu­reau reported that "more than 2,000" cures at Lourdes have been found to be "medically in­explicable" by physicians of the International Medical Commit­tee, which is comprised of men and women who are Catholic, non-Catholic, agnostics and atheists. 
Thirdly, it may be helpful to know the criteria for a "medically inexplicable cure." First, the ailm.ent must have been incurable and life-threat­ening. Second, the problem must be organic, not functional: that is, it cannot be something like Joss of speech, unconnected with a cerebral lesion. 
Third, tests such as X-rays and biopsies must conclusively prove existence of a disease. 
Fourth, the ailment cannot be L attributed to any medical­treatment which was or could have been applied. Fifth, the cure must be (a) unexpected; 
(b) 
sudden or spontaneous; and 

(c) 
complete and without conva­lescence. Sixth, the ailment must not recur for at least three years. 


Paul A. Fisher 
N.D. Class of '43 Feb.13,1993 


Dear Editor: 

As a member of the 1993 Sophomore Literary Festival Committee, I would like to in­vite all Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff to attend the Twenty-Sixth Annual Sopho­more Literary Festival. Running from Feb. 21 through Feb. 25, the Festival will feature five writers on the cutting-edge of contemporary American literature. 
This year's guests encompass diverse styles and themes in their works while sharing a flair for controversy and inno­vation. 1\vo of them, poet Nikki Giovanni and novelist Gloria Naylor, poignantly recount their experiences as African­American women, while activist Marge Piercy infuses her books, poems, and plays with scathing reflections on gender and racial inequity. Former journalist Tim O'Brien revives the anguished intensity of the Vietnam War in his works of fiction, and celebrated dramatist Edward Albee captures the turbulence of that bewildering era in his provocative classic, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
Parting curtains on the past 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
to shed light into the future, these Festival participants challenge their audiences to a better understanding of them­selves and a greater respect for others. 
The Festival opens on Sunday with Nikki Giovanni, continues with Tim O'Brien on Monday, Gloria Naylor on Tuesday, and Marge Piercy on Wednesday, and concludes with Edward Al­bee on Thursday. In addition to giving readings each night at 
8:00 pm in the Library Audito­rium, the headliners will meet informally with their audiences in discussions, classes, and book signings. 
Wherever your interests or ideology lies, I encourage you to take advantage of these op­portunities to interact with those who rouse the conscience of our culture. Whether they provoke you to anger, move you to tears, or just open your eyes to a new perspective on the world, time spent in their company will not be time wasted. 
Rebecca L. Kroeger 1993 Sophomore Literary Festival Committee Feb.15, 1993 


'It's a complex fate, being an American.' 
Henry James 
Use your right to submit: 
QUOTES. PO. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 


Viewpoint
Friday, February 19, 1993 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Parents are the ke 
"We never had a lot of money growing up ... But my parents always said we kids were going to have a college education... Then, when I was accepted at Notre Dame, that was like the biggest thing in their lives." 
With faces alive with love and admiration, this was just one of the many stories that had in­troduced me to the Notre Dame parent; someone I have come to appreciate as truly at the center of Notre Dame's greatness. 
Richard Huether 
JPW Weekend 

After seven years of coming comes tast and is always the conclusion? out each semester to lecture same. Yes, Notre Dame would What a great answer. Every­and mentor students one-on­exist because Notre Dame is not thing seemed to be fitting in one, I was still searching for resident in the structures or the place. The student one-on-one words to respond to student practices of this University but meetings that evening flew by questions about how the Notre rather really found in the and continued to support the Dame imprint was going to af­student... more specifically in conclusion. After all weren't fect the rest of their lives. the way student to student re­these one of those structured 
At first I thought, what a lationships challenge, support, challenges that contributed to strange question. Wasn't it negotiate, threaten and love a the transition of the freshman obvious? Look around. What a transition that takes a freshman "taker" to the senior "giver"? fantastic campus! What an out­who must receive to survive to Things were really starting to standing faculty and adminis­the able senior who must give fit together and I felt terrific. It tration! Or look back to a his­to be fulfilled. wasn't until I laid down in one tory of greatness ... Fr. Sorin, Fr. Now I finally had it. It was of those beds at the Morris Inn Hesburgh, Rockne, Fr. the way we structured the aca­where the window frames the Nieuwland. Frank O'Malley! demic and social challenges Dome against the night sky and Wasn't it all quite obvious? over these four years that en­stared up at this golden image, 
But, the more I thought, what abled the interrelationship be­searching for affirmation, that became obvious was that while tween the students to create my well intentioned conclusions these current and historical this indelible imprint. What a began to unravel. Rather than views might set the stage for great answer. finding the peace of an 
this generation's Notre Dame, Immediately, one of the out­exhausting and fruitful day, the they would only be part of the standing columns to appear in other shoe dropped. answer. The Observer, by a then Most of the students I had 
The next insight came in class sophomore John O'Brien came been reaching had generally from the students. I posed the to mind. John related that as a been there just a little over one question this way. "Suppose freshman his roommate had year. They were still getting you get up tomorrow morning returned home and how he felt their feet wet, but their actions and discover all the buildings lost until a group of juniors took and answers reflected an u·n­and facilities are gone, him under their wing. As this derstanding of what we called somehow disappeared. The friendship grew so did his Notre Dame that seemed to residence halls, buildings that comfort and happiness. represent four years of experi­held your classes, the church Now, however, it was the end ence. How could that be? where you prayed; even such of his sophomore year and Only one answer seemed to revered symbols as the Dome these friends were about to remain. They had brought this had vaporized. You and all graduate. Joy again turned to greatness with them. Could it your fellow students awoke to pain as he faced another loss, be that that which we call Notre find yourselves standing in the until he realized that maybe Dame is a reflection of those middle of a barren Indiana now it was his turn to reach out qualities that had been taught, field. The question. Would to wipe out another's loneliness disciplined, praised, scolded Notre Dame still exist?" with his friendship. and loved into these young men 
In the over ten times I have Wasn't this what we were all and women long before we had used this question, the· answer about? Didn't this prove the ever met them? 
Opinion was lost in the haze of ideals 
Dear Editor: professor reveals in his discus­respect for womankind by 
An observation regarding sion of the idea of "dominion." adopting gender inclusive lan­Professor Charles Rice's "Right He attacks contraception with guage. Questioning whether or Wrong'?" column that ran in the question "Who is in charge, "Man" is in charge of making Monday's Observer: it seems man or God?" Unless I am decisions about contraception painfully obvious his articles mistaken the crucial existence shows a blatant (and frankly consistently suffer from a lack of human free will in Christian­embarrassing) disrespect for of coherence. A major example ity provides an answer that more than half of the popula­of this shortcoming is the pro­stands powerfully contrary to tion. fessor's ludicrously abstract use the one upheld by Rice. God This letter is by no means a of the terms "reason" and does not wield practical control cry for objectivity; I am com­"sanity." What precisely do over· humankind -He cannot pletely open to the careful ex­these words mean to Rice? In be simply described as "in position of any perspective on what sense does Humanae Vi­charge." It would be terribly any issue. I merely wish to tae "providentially and difficult to confront the problem stress that although a forum for prophetically" call us to these of evil if this question held any competent editorial expression hazy ideals? these concepts relevance. is crucial, sloppy propaganda could certainly stand a great One last point: Professor Rice, such as Rice's has no place in deal of clarification. in future columns regarding the press. 
I am also frustrated by the contraception, abortion, or any Christopher Norborg fundamental misunderstanding issue that concerns human Off Campus of Christian theology that the sexuality, please show some Feb.16,1993 
And that which we call Notre Dame in simplest terms is a process by which we exercise, enrich and hopefully celebrate these qualities in a very special way. And, that our ability to draw students together that are best able to learn from one an­other and to surround them with challenge and support that ignites the magic of these in­fused dreams, and plays them out on a most magnificent stage represents our stewardship of this gift called Notre Dame. 
If so, is that not further affir­mation that it is the parents that history must accord the mantle of providing the key in­gredient to the greatness achieved here? 
In each of the 450 plus stu­dent one-on-one's I have par­ticipated in, there would always be at least one moment where the depth of this family pres­ence expressed itself. Not sur­prising was that the students were looking to copy that vision in their own lives. 
One of the most beautiful came a few semesters ago when a business major confided that each day she had a growing sense that her place was to return to the native American village of her grandparents to help that community build a better life. It had been only the previous semester that a lad had made a similar com­mitment to his family's village on the Mexican border. 
Then, it was to share the 
beauty of a student who feared that he would miss being able to pass on the cohesiveness that had been shared by a family of modest means who had taken the time to understand and celebrate the empowerment of acquiring their first car, first house and of course sending the first offspring for a college education. 
The reason... he had just signed an employment contract that would put enough money in his pocket to compress a lifetime of goals into an instant. How was he to preserve and recreate the memories and culture he cherished for his family? 
It was just last semester when a young woman confided that though she was very pleased with the selection of her major and was doing very well in her course work, each day she was becoming more attracted to the role of wife and mother that (you guessed it) her mother had played in her family's life. 
Adding a sense of order, pri­ority, empowerment from their family experiences, however, usually manifested itself in less dramatic ways. Observations on concern, dedication, effort, understanding, patience, care, hope and love were only to be­gin the list of razor sharp im­prints students carried as fam­ily-based tools that were form­ing the foundation for their life decisions. 
About this time I couldn't help but stop and think about those pre-teen pictures dotting The Observer birthday vignettes that had become such a daily part of this newspaper. Maybe they were doing more than celebrating the durability of this family love. Maybe they also served to rechallenge those blessed with student care with the depth of parental challenge to and belief in this Notre Dame. 
Richard Huether graduated from Notre Dame in 1955. He currently lives in Schenectady, New York. 



[MUsr~ . -­

i-' ' lllte trOagf Knlghta. 9:30p.m., Madison Oyster Bar, 
:,288~37'f6.$ 

jDavld Snyder, Slide guitar. 9:30p.m.. Mishawaka 1Midway Tavern 
'EVENTS 

:.elak Koffe House,? p.m .. LaFortune Ballroom. $3 in 
•dvance. $7 at door jlnternatlonal Show By Arpad Szabados, Art Exhibit, :Ji' p.m .. IUSB, 237-4203 :Just Singin' and Dancin' V, 8 p.m., Battell Theater, 1258-166;'. $
! ___.._ ---------------­
saturday 
MUSIC 

! David Snyder, 9:30p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ Dlssfunktlon, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Club 23 
jEVENTS 
! 

Sister Joan Chlttlster, Seminar, 1 p.m .. Carroll Auditorium-Saint Mary's, $3 for students, $6 at door ' Sportscard, Comic, Coin, and Collectibles Show.10:30 a.m., Benton Harbor Holiday Inn 

!MUSIC I lFine Arts Fund Concert, 2 p.m. Annenberg ~ Auditorium.Snite, $5 jDances of Universal Peaceb7 p.m., First Unitarian :Church, 101 E. North Shore rive, $ 
i 
!EVENTS 

:Feminist Forum Meeting, 3 p.m.,Foster Room. ; LaFortune ! Sophomore Literary Festival, Nikki Giovanni, 8 p.m., : Libra~y Auditorium · ­:Simple Men, 8 p.m., Morris Civic Auditorulm, $5 ~ 

~Cushing Auditorium : Plnocchlo, Friday and Saturday, 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Snlte :Swoon, Friday and Saturday, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Unlv. Park West .Scent of a Woman, 12:30, 3:45, 7 & 10:15 p.m. ~Aladdin, 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:25, & 9:25 p.m. iSommersby, 2, 4:30, 7:15. & 9:45p.m. 
·Unlv. Park East :Children of the Com II, 9:20p.m. 
•A Few Good Men, 1,:4, 7, & 9:50p.m. The Temp, 1:20,3:10-,5:10,7:10, & 9:10p.m. Untamed Heart, 1:2Q, 3:20t5:20,7:30 .& 9:40p.m.. , Nowh-.re To Aun., 1:30, ~t30, 5:30, 7::J&, &~~u..p-pn~ 
. : . . . \ ._.. 
Do you remember when 90210 was simply a zip code? Did y__ou ever think home entertainment would ever get as sophisticated as Nintendo and Sega Genesis? Does it break your heart to hear singers with no talent produce songs like ul Love You Period?" (Oops, sorry that's "I Love You.") What's happened to the good old days?
Our memories sometimes shortchange US1 anayes folks, we're only getting older. That's why we're here to help you remember certam things which you've probably rang forgotten.It's should be an awesome trip, but it's our responsibility to warn you: a reminisce this intense could be hazardous to your health. Anostalgia wflich you've never felt before may overcome you. You might become violently angry at the fact that many of these things are no longer available. Depression may seep in wflen you realize what your children will never have. But rejoice, at least you were able lo experience some of the finest things life has had to offer to people. And remember there is nothing more powerful then your memory! 

Books: 
•Babar 
(the elephant) 

•Berenstain 
Bears 

•Charlotte's 
Web 

•Choose 
Your Own A d v e n t u r e Series• Curious George•Ciifford • Dr. Suess Books (especially · Are you My Mother?, Cat . in the Hat, The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbing, A Fish out of Water, Fox in· Socks, Go Dog Go, Green Eggs and Ham. Hop on Pop and There's a · Wocket in my Pocket) Encyclopedia Brown•Forever, Are You There God, It's Me Margaret and all other Judy Blume •From the Mixed Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Fraukweiler•The Giving Tree•The Hardy Boys•The Lion, the Witch, and The Wardrobe •Little Women •Madeline 

•Mr. 
Men and Little Miss Books (Mr. Chatterbox was a favorite)•Nancy D r e w •Paddington Bear•The Princess and t h e Pea•Ramona and other Beverly Cleary books•Sweet Valley High Series •Where the Red Fern Grows? •Where the Sidewalk Ends?•A Wrinkle in Time 


Songs: 
•867-5309 
Tommy Tutone•99 Luftballoons Nena•All I Need-Jack Wagner•Always Something There To Remind Me-Naked Eyes•Break My Stride-Matthew Wilder 

•Centerfold-the 
J. Geils Band•Come On Eileen-Dexy's Midnight Runners•Do They Know it's ChristmasT-Band Aid•Don't You Want Me Baby-Human League•Ebony and Ivory-Paul McCartney and Stevie Wonder•Electric Avenue-Eddie Grant•Elvira-Oak Ridge Boys•Girls Just Wanna Have Fun-Cindy Lauper•Gloria-Laura Branigan•Hurt So Good-John Cougar•! Want Candy-Bow Wow Wow•Jesse's Girl-Rick Springfield •Let's Go All The Way-Sly Fox•Little Red Corvette ­Prince •Macho Man-Village People 

•Mr. 
Roboto-Styx •Obsession -Animotion •Oh, Mickey -Toni Basil •One Night in Bangkok -Murray Head•Owner of a Lonely Heart-Yes•Pass the Dutchie 'Pon the Left Hand Side-Musical Youth•Playing With the Queen of Hearts-Juice Newton•Rock Me Amadeus-Palco •Puttin' on the Ritz-Taco •Rock Lobster-B-52s •Sa Dance-Men With Hats •She Blinded wit Science-Thomas Dolby•Solid As A Rock-Ashford an Simpson•(l always feel like) Somebody's Watching Me -Rockwell and Michael Jackson •Tainted 



Love-Soft Cell•Take On Me-A­Ha•Thriller-Michael Jackson•Walking 
in the Rain-Oran' Juice Jones•We Are the World-USA for Africa 
Singers/Bands: 
•Adam and the Ants•Th Bee Gees•Pat Benatar• 
·George and the Culture Club•Shaun Cassidy 
•Devo•Duran Duran•Frankie 
Goes to llollywood•Go-""'~'ii!iilli' Go's•Hall and Oates•Men At Work•Men Without llats •Menudo•Missing 
Persons •New Edition•Night Ranger•Olivia 
Newton­John•Pet Shop Boys •Quiet Riot 
•Lionel Richie •Run-DMC •The Pointer Sisters •The Police 
•Stray 
Cats •Thomspon Twins 

•Twisted 
Sister •Village People 


(especially the Indian guy) •Wham 
Television: 
•BattleSta Galactica • Bens 
•Bosom 
Buddies 

•The 
Brady Brunch 


•Captain Kangaroo•Charlies Angels •CHiPS•DifT'rent Strokes 
•Dukes 
of Haz of Life•Fame • lsland•Gim 

•Gilligan
's Times (!) 

•Great 
Space Greatest Am 

•Happy 
D 1-lart•llello lleros•llot Po Hulk•The J Loves Chac Wild•Kids Too• Kids Inc 


Land Lost•L 
ShirleO the Style• 
-Sidn Mindy • Show• Family• 


----------------~--------------------~~~-----~ 
•Weebles 
Games: 
Days 
Brothers•The Breakfast 
Club•Breakin'•Caddy Shack•Chariots of 
Fire•Electric Boogaloo• E. T. •Exorist 
•Fast 
Times at Ridgemont High 

•Flashdance 
•Footloose 

•Grease• 
Incredible Shrinking Woman•The Jerk•The Last Dragon 

•Love 
at First Bite •Meatballs •Never Ending Story •Night Shift •The Outsiders • Perfect • Porky's• Purple Rain •Real Genius •Revenge of The 


Nerds•Risky Business •Rocky I and II •Saturday Night Fever 
•The 
Secret of Nimh 

•Sixteen 
Candles•Star 


Trek•The Star Wars saga•Streets of Fir 
•Stripes •Summer _. Lovers •Teen Wolf•Trading Places •Tron•Tootsie•Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory •Xanadu 
Cartoons 
Friendly G h o s t 
•Droopy •Fat Albert •GI Joe •Hanna Barbera's Huckleberry 
Hound, Loch Ness, Quick Draw McGraw, 

Snagglepuss and Touche Turtle •Heckle & Jeckle•HeMan and Shera: Masters of the Universe•Jossie 
pany•Tic 
Tac and The Pussy Cats•T.he John:...a}. La f fa I y m pic s • Mighty orne Back ~Mouse • Munch e c he s • The appen-..lr\) 0 a! Scobby Doo (without )• Press .....0 S c r a p p y out f . too) • Pope y e • Richie 
•The Rich•Schoolhouse Rock on KR ABC during Sat. morn­nde ing cartoons •Shi 
Tales •The Smurfs 
•Space Racer •Super Chicken, Tom Slick, George of the Jungle on e•Annie•Bad Sunday morning •The Supe 
g Chill•The Friends (especially the wonder twins)The Blues •Top Cat •Transformers•Wait Till Your Father Gets Home•Yogi Bear (and Boo Boo too) 
Toys: 

•Big 
Wheel •Bozo Punching Bag•Chinese Jump Rope •ColorForms 

•Etch-a-Sketch 
•Glo Worm •Hello Kitty (and pals) •Hollie Hobby•Hoola Hoop•Hot Wheels•Legos•My Little Pony 

•LiteBrite 
•Logs (to build with) •Magic Rocks • Raggedy Ann and Andy •That red and yellow shopping cart with plastic food•Those round-headed, blue yellow wood people at fit in school buses, airplanes, 


and even had their own gas station 
•Shovel and Bucket (for sand)•See n' Say•Shrinky Dinks•Silly Putty•Sit 'n' Spin 
•Slinkies•Slip n' Slide•Smurf 
figures•Snoopy and Belle•Speak n' Spell 
•Strawberry Shortcake 
•Star Wars action 
figures •Transformers 

•Candy Land •Chinese Checkers 
•Chutes 
and Ladders •Connect Four 

•Duck 
Duck Goose •Dungeons and Dragons •Fashion Plates •Four Square 

•Handball 
•Heads-Up 7-Up •Hi-Ho Cherry-0 •Hopscotch •Hungry Hungry Hippos •Jacks •Mother May I •Musical Chairs • Operation • Parcheesi Perfection Red Light, Green Light •Rubik's Cube •Sorry • T.V. tag • 


Uno 
T e e n Idols: 
• 
B o Derek 

• 
Matt Dillon 


•Farrah Fawcett 
•Michael J. Fox •Andy 
Gibb •Anthony Michael Hall 
•Tommy 
Howell 

• 
Don Johnson •Heather Locklear (on TJ Hooker) •Rob Lowe •Ralph Macchio •Alfonso Ribeiro •Molly Ringwald •Ricky 


Schroeder 
•Ally 
Sheedy 

• 
L u k e 


Skywalker • Rick Springfield 
•Tiffany •Philip Michael Thomas 

•Susie Chapstick 
Miscellaneous items : 
•Atari 
(especially Pac Man) •Break dancing •Florescent clothes •Jelly Shoes 

•Jheri 
Curls (with the plastic caps) •K­


swiss•Madonna rubber braclets•Moonwalk 
•Parachute pants •Parties at McDonald's and the Roller Rink •Scratch n' Sniff stickers •Shell toe Adidas with fat shoe 
laces (or no laces at all) 

•The jacket with the zippers all 
over it (it came in red and black) •Wearing one sequenced glove 
Notre Dame offers 
a variety of fine 
arts to students 
Hartley introduces ~~Silent Men" 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

Noted independent film maker Hal Hartley will be in South 
Bend Feb. 21 to introduce his latest work, "Simple Men," at 
8 p.m. at the Morris Civic Auditorium. "Simple Men,"a quirky and sophisticated portrayal of life's 
absurdities. revolves _around two radically dissimilar 
brothers locked together in a search for their missing father, 
who happens to be a legendary New York Yankees shortstop 
who has gone underground after being accused of a 60s 
political bombing. Each brother-one an angry ex-con and 
the other a quiet, bookish observer-has questions that can 
only be answered by their father. 
The department-chose the Moris Civic Auditorium for the 
event so that it could screen a new 35-mm print of the film, 
accommodate a larger audience, and "because the 
auditorium's grand scale is reminiscent of how luxurious an 
evening at the movies used to be," said Jim Collins, associate 
professor and associate chair of communications and 
theater. 

Hartley has earned an international reputation as a self­made, truly independent film maker who avoids Hollywood producers and exorbitant budgets. Droll and minimalist. his style has been compared to French film maker Jean-Luc Godard and the French "new wave" of the 1960s, although his characters and stories are distinctly American. In his work he explores the problems ofnegotiating a moral life full of love, adventure, politics and pain. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the 
LaFortune information desk for $5. Doors will open at 7 p.m. 

Courtesy of Rneline Features Martin Donovan and William Sage star in Hal Hartley's "Simple Men: The movie w111 be shown Sunday, Feb. 21 at the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
WSND hosts 2'dannual Fine Arts Fund Concert 
By KENV4 JOHNSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

WSN:(), SS;9 FM.. Will host their second annual Fine Arts Fund Concert this Sunday, Feb: 21,, presenting an array of dassical artiSts. · _ __ 
~l'm really excited aboutthis~" said Pete Matthews, program direct9r ofWSND. "This is. a unique opportunity to hear -up and coming musical talent." 
Undergraduates~ graduate students. and one faculty member are.,tbe participants in tM concert. Some examples of the acts are a solo guitarist. a piano, .guitar and piccolo trio~ a horn, clarinet and piano trio, and a born duo. 
"There will be many different periods of classical music tepres{lnted," said Matthews. "One work is from George Rocheberg, who is a contemporary composer and then there are the traditional classic composers." 
The concert was successful last year, according to Matthews. 
"The turn out was a lot bigger than I expected and the audience just loved it," said Matthews. He said that this year the responses hav(:l been so good that they had to turn a few artists away. 
All proceeds of the concert will go to WSND. 
"We get funds from the University; but it doesn't cover our employee's pay," Matthews explained. "All of the people here are, volunteers, but it's nice to give them pay when they stay Qver the breaksto ~o the show.>i 

.The ~;oncert Will be .held at The Snite Annenberg 
p.m, Tickets are $5 for adults and $2 for 
' 

.. 


Page 14 Friday, February 19, 1993 
Condoms will not solve problem of AIDS 
.... . 
I 
l ! I 
Was it a mistake, last my heart continues to beat as I'd be sorry to have anyone year-after seeing Arthur Ashe usual, at God's direction. Of believe I'd ignore a son's young on television sick with AIDS-for Father Robert Griffin course AIDS is serious, but God passionate ignorance. As a mat­me to write in the Observer: will not abandon us. There will ter of fact, I'd watch over him, "Nobody can be sure how disas­still be music, Father Griffin, to help him stay pure, all the trous the AIDS epidemic will Bellers Ia aBone(y 9od after you and I are gone." time. get. 'Put not your trust in He almost sounds as though I As soon as she said, "Time condoms,' the Catholic bishops were the one with AIDS, but and temperature changes in say, and I agree with the that's alright. He was kind to that glove compartment where
tf he found that the ongmaJs an untouchable.
bishops. But if I had a teenager write. I'll no longer pay the college boy keeps those 
were cheapies? Putting condoms in the left­
hell-bent with lust, I'd be attention when they tell me condoms will soon make them
In mentioning condoms, I rear pocket of all the teenagers
tempted to sew condoms into never to play cards with a man as useless as an umbrella in a
stirred up a hornets' nest last in America isn't going to reduce
the crotch of his blue jeans. called Doc, or eat at a place hurricane," I realized that she 
year. I didn't expect to be de­the presure the vestel virgins
Was it gravely wrong for me called Mom's. wasn't hearing anything I could 
nounced as the pied piper lead­are under to deliver their first
to suggest that unless parents have told her; and so,
ing children down the primrose french kiss, and scapular
have children to throw away, A woman, appalled because I conceded her argument "In
path. I was surprised to hear medals will not save them from
they should take it to the Lord admitted that if I had a addition," I said, ''I'm sure they
the great Catholic outcry grief either. 
in prayer whether to discourage teenager hell-bent with lust, I were shopworn when he bought 
against condoms, after reading Condom giveaways in the
their hell-raiser from wearing might be tempted to supply him them. The date indicating the
for years that 92 1/2 percent of schools could be like serving
his battle helmet when he with condoms sewed to his shelf life had probably expired." 
all Catholic couples practice chicken soup as penicillin in­
enters the war-zone? clothes, wrote to remind me of I don't know if condoms even
birth control. Does my mail stead of calling the doctor. 
the case histories and statistics have a shelf life, but it mightcome from the 7 112 percent of Chicken soup as a Jewish won­
Should parents be tempted to on the poor record of condoms give her a grim satisntction to
the Catholics who don't practice der drug can't do you much
supply him with clean needles, for birth control, and "their think she is aware of an
birth control, or from those who harm. But the sight of condoms 
if they knew he used drugs? I utter failure as protection additional way that condoms
don't use condoms in the forms could kill you, if they're brought 
can't be sure what I'd do if a against HIV virus." can become a killer betraying
of birth control they practice? home from school by fourth
lad of mine were caught in deep "Ah, my dear," I answered, the user.
Condoms, which were once a graders-it's happening in New
trouble. I hope I'd have the "Why should you think that if 
secret kept from children, are York City-who have been
courage to do the loving thing condoms aren't foolproof, they I wonder what thoughts were 
now part of the show-and-tell trained in the use of them. 
for him always, especially when are worthless? Eighty percent in this woman's mind last week 
which children are exposed to Parents must be desperate to
love means making the hard effectiveness is far from worth­when she heard that Arthur
in the fourth grade. I hate the find wiser ways to protect their
choice; and this grace is what less, and we can do better. I Ashe was dead from AIDS,
cynicism that shouts from the towheads. The bishops have
I'd pray for. presume any country that can transmitted to him in a blood
housetops that abstinence wiser heads than the educators
Is it loving of a father to re­make space suits protective transfusion? Was her mind 
cannot be relied on exclusively willing to gamble on condoms
move the condoms that his col­enough for a moon walk, can teased by the thought that the 
as the Noah's ark that will save as the safest way off the
lege son has been keeping in make reliable condoms." blood bank in that hospital
even the very young animals minefield in this age of AIDS.
the glove compartment of his It pained her to hear me put might never have been tainted
from death by AIDS A doctor with AIDS replied to
car? I wonder if such a well­morality and emotions aside, if someone, somewhere along
the column I wrote last year on

intentioned dad could foresee she said, something no loving the line, had used a condom?
The uglynass of AIDS is a fact Arthur Ashe. He suggested that
the consequences of interfering parent would do. "I have two
of life from which there are no I stiffen my spine a bit, sit up
in the personal life of a lad who sons, and the very thought of Condoms are not a miracle
hiding places. Abstinence straight, take a deep breath,
has deeided he's old enough to them coming to harm makes drug, or a cure for anything,
doesn't always work, even for and walk out into the
think for himself. my heart quake. But allowing but all of us are dependent on
the pure of heart, struggling countryside. then, he says, I
Would it be wrong of me to them to go blithely about killing strangers kind enough to use
with temptations that can lead will be able to see with my own
advise this dad, trying to serve themselves because I choose to one; it could be a way of 
to a fall from grace. Life is filled eyes that nature and the
his boy as a guardian angel, to overlook their young, showing that I'm my brother's
with unguarded moments that cosmos have not collapsed, that
put back the condoms, passionate ignorance, is totally brother, in this age of AIDS. 
can ruin your track record as God is in his heaven, and that
substituting more reliable ones out of the question." 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted employment offers to join us after graduation. 
William A. Allen, Chicago  William D. LaFever, Chicago  Eric A. Rojas, Boston  
Jennifer L. Blanchet, Chic.ago  Michael P. MacKinnon, Boston  Kevin A. Rule, Chicago  
Maureen E. Brown, New York  Michael R. Malady, Los Angeles  Mark A. Schmidt, Atlanta  
Joseph S. Burke, Chicago  Erin M. McCauley, Washington, D.C.  Robert M. Silveri, Stamford  
James A. Burkhart, Jr., Cleveland  Kelly A. McDonough, Cleveland  Edward A. Smith, Long Island  
David D. Cathcart, Atlanta  Arthur R. Monaghan, Minneapolis  Jeffery G. Stark, Milwaukee  
William L. Dietz, Minneapolis  Melissa L. Mong, Houston  Tricia J. Tilford, Phoenix  
Patricia A. Fosmoe, Chicago  R. Patrick Murray, II, Indianapolis  Scott J. Vickman, Minneapolis  
Thomas E. Hitselberger, Jr., Baltimore  Kerry L. Norton, Chicago  Julie Ann Vaccarella, Chicago  
Scott D. Kamenick, Chicago  Angela C. Pearson, Chicago  Lynn I. Vandermeulen, Chicago  
Maureen P. Kenny, Chicago  Kathleen M. Phares, Chicago  Kevin C. Weinman, Charlotte  
Susan M. Kurowski, Chicago  Richard M. Riley,-Chicago  .Michael E. Wendowski, Indianapolis  
R. Geoffrey Levy, Atlanta  Tina M. Wojciechowski, Chicago  

ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & Co SC 


-------~.........·--------~-~-~~---~----~ -------;
-·-~~--~-~----------­
--~-------~-­
Friday, February 19, 1993 
Flyers, Calgary battle to tie; Sharks top Jets 
(AP) -The Philadelphia period with a high shot from Flyers have specialized in the slot to deadlock the score stirring comebacks this week at 2-2 after some sloppy in the NHL. checking by the Canucks in the 
They came from behind with Vancouver zone. two goals to tie the Calgary Dineen got his first goal in Flames 4-4 on Tuesday in the opening period to pull the Cincinnati and pulled off Flyers into a 1-1 tie before a another remarkable comeback sellout crowd that came to Thursday night against the watch Flyers rookie Eric Vancouver Canucks. Lindros. 
Kevin Dineen scored his Lindros, with 24 goals and 44 second goal of the game on a points in 34 previous games, breakaway with 1.6 seconds was held pointless -and left to give the Flyers a 3-2 shotless -and almost cost the victory over the stunned Flyers the game with a Vancouver Canucks. giveaway barely a minute 
Dineen stole the puck from before Dineen's late heroics. Adrien Plavsic at the "I don't think any of us are Vancouver blue line and skated really pleased with our 

AP file phote 

in untouched to beat goalie performance," said Canucks 
Flyer defenseman Murray Baron goes low to block a Gerard Gallant shot. 
Kay Whitmore to the stick side assistant coach Rick Ley. "It 
to cap the reversal before a wasn't the effort so much as Soderstrom of the Flyers, who The Sharks, winners in just "We've been frustrated, too," shocked crowd. we were out of sync." faced 30 shots. eight of 59 games this season, Maley said. "Of course, ours "I really like the team we've Plavsic's turnover came when Sharks 5, Jets 3 defeated Winnipeg for the lasted a little longer than 
got right now," said Flyers he mishandled a bouncing For the time being, at least, second time in five days, racing most." coach Bill Dineen, proud father puck and went directly to the the San Jose Sharks are looking to a 4-0 lead after two periods San Jose coach George 
of the game-winning shooter. opportunistic Dineen. at life from the positive end of and holding off the Jets in the Kingston said, "Some people "We're a really good The victory pulled the Flyers the spectrum. Not so the final period. thought I was crazy when I said offensive team and, if we within eight points of the fifth­Winnipeg Jets. San Jose has two wins and a we were making progress, but 
tighten up defensively, we place New York Islanders in "It's· nice to see the other good losing effort in its last we've been doing some good could cause some problems in the Patrick Division. team frustrated for a change," three games, which is light things on the ice, even when we our division." Robert Kron and Pavel Bure said the Sharks' Dave Maley, years from its NHL-record tying were losing. The last three 
Greg Paslawski scored scored for Vancouver against who had a goal and an assist in 17-game losing streak that games have been a midway through the third red-hot goalie Tommy San Jose's 5-3 win over ended against Winnipeg on Feb. continuation of that 
Winnipeg on Thursday night. 14. development." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from tO a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
LOST-Men's black wool dress coat Mothers helper needed part time Ride(s) needed to Washington DC ADOPTION: Were you Christopher B­L...-_N_O_T_IC_E_s___.r during ISO party. -Was Christmas days and evenings. Perfect for area for spring break. Flexible on overwhelmed when you found out Happy Belated Valentine's Day to gift. Please call Chuck at #3277 summer job also. Must be friendly, date and time of departure. Will you were pregnant? We were my one and only. I'm thinking of you TYPING 287-4082 with experience and own car. 232· help pay for gas and tolls. Call and overwhelmed when we found out while in MX-and the best is yet to 2201 ask for anyone at X4721 or X4758. we couldn't have children. We're a come. TYPING 256-6657 LOST LOST LOST LOST Catholic nurse/doctor couple Love, Me 
BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER happily married for 9 years. If you Part-time work in GLOVES at SOUTH DINING $$ FOR RENT want your baby to grow up with Hi SMED publishing/distribution. Creative HALL on Fri. 2/12. CALL JACKIE at I need a ride to Indianapolis patient, loving parents, a large skills. x2205. for Spring Break!! Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom extended family, & two very sweet Pregnant and feeling alone with no PC knowledge helpful. Vince 272-8503 House now for 93-94 school dogs, please call Mary and Michael where to turn? We offer confidential PO Box 1349 South Bend IN At the DILLON FORMAL, we year 234-1886 1-800-759-6039. counseling at no cost to you. For 46634 switched long, green coats. Mine YO! more information call Nancy at 232­
is blue-green with apple stitches on I NEED A RIDE 5843. ••••• SENIORS ••••• the inside. Call Molly x4121 To DE, PA, So. NJ FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT To our GOLDEN GIRL in Walsh 
for Spring Break NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO Hall! We are so looking forward to Adoption: Doctor and teacher will Help. Our president has gone Lost: one watch at the Holy Cross Call SEAN x1605 FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR JPW not because it is our "second," make dreams for your baby come insane. Joe Huston has priced the Formal while at Holy Cross. If 2773097 not because it is our last, but true. Full-time parenting. Best of the Senior Class trip to Chicgo for only found, please contact Eric at "4284. because we will spend an entire city; summers by the beach; your $5 on sale at LaFortune. Also class 3 BEDROOM HOUSE weekend with you. You are the baby rocked to sleep by a cozy shirts for only $8, sweatshirts for Lost: Long, forest green wool NEEDED: A RIDE TO DES $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. sunshine in our family, Erin. We love fireplace in winter, and by ocean $25 and St. Pat's shirts for just $10 coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our MOINES FOR SPRING BREAK­SECURITY SYSTEM you. Mom and Dad. waves in summer. Art, music, the all available in the class office. If coats were accidently switched · I JEREMY X1750 232-3616 best education, endless love. Call you see him don't panic. Call NO have a similar, bluish-green coat. I need someone to play with!l'm Franny or Stephen collect. Security immediately. Thank-you. Please hurry · JPW is coming up! BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES looking for anyone who is a more­(212)369-2597. 
JB, KF, and AK Call4966. Looking for someone driving FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. than-novice, less than Grandmaster to Phoenix for spring break 219-291-7153. chess or GO player . Call Sarah •..SPRING BREAK LOANS" .. 
Did you take the wrong navy blazer with room to haul a Mac SE, x2969 Used Texts Cheap Pandora's from the Lyons-Howard formal on with printer and keyboard, to 4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR From the in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-February 6? destination in that city. I'll SUMMER SCHOOL. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 2342 NO Ave & Howard I am missing a Wimbeldon brand contribute $50 toward travel GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING Happy 19th Shooterl 
blazer from that dance and expenses. Call234-6747; PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL To Friday nights, lemon drops, and 30 Day Loans Dissertations, Theses, desperately need it for JPW this leave message on machine if MONICA 232-2794. animal noises. Be good and no Up to $250 Term Papers weekend. no one home. more sleeping with your roommate. @1% Interest Word Works Typing Service Please call Tim at 1422. 6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM See ya in Chicago! 
277-7406 HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. Love-Monday -Friday 
Found: one slightly damaged gold AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR BJ, Lunar, Boom Boom, lz, & 11:30. 12:30 ECONTUTOR earring 2/16, in B1 parking lot SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach FALL.272-6306 Amster 1st Floor LaFortune Principles/In! between stadium and DeBart. Call wanted for H.S. level team. Call O'Hara Lounge Manageriai/BCA Ron at 273-1871 to identify. 277-4791 for details. Call Tony Sindone Tschupp:
.......HELP!!"...... 

1-325-8918 Seeking ride for 2 to Miami of Ohio DESPERATE BUT Smile!:) 
or Cincinatti area this Friday. Will BEAUTIFUL GIRL SEEKS Rider sought returning from spring Attention! I found your gold, help pay gas/tolls. Call Brent x3345 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL break in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian claddagh earring! Call 4-3842. FOR SALE SIGN-UPS 3677. I'm a-going to Disney World! I wait 3 1 /2 years for a car. are FAST approaching. 
Actually, I am going home to Dad finally gives me one. Make sure you are ready by GRETUTOR Lost, 02/ 17: Orlando, the City Beautiful, home of Women's light weight 26 in. On the day I bring it back to TOM Black/white cotton scarf. Please much more than Shaq and Mickey, Schwinn bike. 1 Ospeed, red, like school, Sign-up day -February 28th. 288·6578 call B. A. at 271-1263. for Spring Break. I've got some new, $135, call I lose the keyring with both 
room, too. Join me. Call toll-free 234-7035. sets of keys. Otherwise you'll end up 273-0895, and ask for Ro. There are no more copies. stuck playing with 4 people 
Now, it's rusting away in D-2. who are worse than you!!! CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -New JVC Stereo System Who am I? Earn $2,000+/month + world travel With Infinity Speakers. Need a ride to North Carolina over 
LOST-Men's tan leather jacket with ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, Tuner, Disc, Double Cassette. Spring Break. leather gloves in the pockets. Lost PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career Half Price !!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Call Dave at 4-3662 during the I.S.O. party at the ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS employment available. No Call 1-8323 Will Lorrei's snap-a-scam man Greek Orthodox church. Please call NEAR LAKE PLACID experience necessary. For please reveal himself. Flipper, It's a whole new world! DiHo Rich at x4153. CALL 1-800-786-8373. employment program call !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!1!! 2 U! Jodie! 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. Oak Hill Condo For Sale 
Adoption-Active, Young couple 3 bdrm, 3 bath, family room SOUTH PADRE, BEACHFRONT, LOST: Gold circle earring on a wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Help Help! Help! Help! Help! 271-7288 NO VIDEO RADISSON RESORT, PARTIES, dangling hook at Keenan love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Desperate female seeking ride to NO VIDEO CONTESTS. SLEEPS 6-8 AND Revue-1/28 Peggy 1-800-682-8628. Washington D.C. for Spring Break. NO Apex One Jacket Escape JPW and the cold MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA Call 284-5254 Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Medium, Almost New weather this weekend HOUSE, SLEEPS 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Leah@ $60 or make an offer NO VIDEO 4-6.$750. WK. 212-472-1414. 
LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. Make money teaching basic 284-4308, leave message. call Mike X3040 NO VIDEO lost on 2/9/93. REWARD!!! If conversational English abroad. All of your favorite movies, Please pray for Rich Delevan as he found contact Buffy at x3772. Japan and Taiwan. Many provide Babysitting Position both new and old is stranded in Humbolt, PA!! Augh!l! 
room & board + other benefits! looking for 1 full time or 2 part time NO VIDEO 
Make $2,000-$4,000+ per month. students to babysit in our home for j PERSONAL r NO VIDEO Jim LOST: heavy gold tone chain link No previous training or teaching our 11 month old child. Must have Open everyday, 5-11 P.M. Laboe bracelet somewhere between north certificate required. For employment references and own transportation. Happy 50th Big PAT! Basement of Lafortune Jim quad and Debartolo on 215. Great program call: Please call for an interview...287-GO HAWKS!!! NO VIDEO Jim sentimental value . Call liz x1345 (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. 3297 NO VIDEO Laboe 


~-~-----­
. ..... ..... ..... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ...... , S'l\
,.. . .. . . .. . . .. .. .. ... 0
, ~ ,..,.... : : : : : : : : : : : : : .... ~ .. 
11111""--. i~ ) 0 flr,r' ••••• • •••••• •••••• ...... • ••••••• •••••• • ~. ~ 'fit ­
'--' ,\~ / : : : ·• : : : : : : : . . : ~ ~li' ....__,.
~ • ••••• ••••••• • ••••• : ·.:•••••• : ••••• • •••••·: :: ·.:..... ,!1 ~ 
NBA STATS SCHEDULE 
l TRANSACTIONS NCAA 
NBA Leader• 

NEW YORK (AP) -NBA lndlvlduel ecorlng, field Ieeder• through Feb. 17: Scoring G FG FT Jordan, Chi. 50 627 306 Willdns, Ati. 39 391 29t K Malone, Utah 50 493 412 Mullin, G.S. 46 474 163 Barklay, Phoe. 46 435 278 Olejuwon, Hou. 50 495 256 O'Neal, Ori. 47 436 256 Ewing, N.Y. 49 486 224 Robinson, S.A 48 397 333 Petrovic, N.J. 49 424 239 Dumaro, Del 48 415 212 JoiYlson, Char. 49 447 207 Manning, LAC 50 447 232 Richmond, Sac. 45 37t 197 Hardaway, G.S. 52 405 216 Miller, Ind. 51 346 290 lewle, Boa. 49 411 195 Hornacek, Phil. 47 365 t81 Coleman, N.J. 45 317 280 Hawklns, Phil. 47 312 256 Schrampf, Ind. 51 329 349 Rebounding G 011 Del Rodman, Det. 31 185 404 O'Neal, Ori. 47 221 450 otajuwon, Hou. 50 t75 473 Barklay, Phoe. 48 t67 429 Willis, Ati. 49 205 429 Ewing, N.Y. 49 129 474 Robinson, S.A 48 132 450 Mutornbo, Den. 50 187 416 K Malone, Utah 50 149 446 Colaman, N.J. 45 149 373 AMIeta G No Avg Stockton, Utah 50 6t9 12.4 Hardaway, G.S. 52 564 10.8 Sidles, Ori. 47 453 9.6 Bogues, Char. 49 486 9.5 Williams, Minn. 42 376 9.0 Thornaa, Del. 47 419 8.9 M.Jackson,LAC 50 424 8.5 Anderson, N.J. 51 4t7 62 Murdoclc, Mil. 48 372 7.8 Price, Ciev. 50 386 7.7 Field Goal Percentage FG FGA Pel Daugherty, Clev. 330 574 .575 O'Neal, Ori. 436 786 .569 K. Malone, Utah 493 682 .559  goel  percent•ge, Pill 16t6 1t28 1401 1191 1181 1246 1128 1161 1129 1146 t098 1118 1128 987 1100 1065 1022 964 902 937 1013 Tot 589 671 649 596 634 803 562 803 594 522  Avg 32.3 28.9 28.0 25.9 25.8 24.9 24.0 23.7 23.5 23.4 22.9 22.8 22.6 21.9 21.2 20.9 20.9 20.5 20.0 19.9 19.9 Avg 19.0 14.3 13.0 13.0 12.9 12.3 12.1 12.t 11.9 11.6  Sterling tlmea for thla w"kend'a major aportlng evente: All nmee EST SATURDAY HOCKEY National Hockey League Loa Angeles at Washington, 1 :30 p.m. Edmonton at Hartford, 1 :40 p.m. PIHsburgh Ill New York Islanders, 2:10p.m. Philadelphia at Minnesota, 2:10p.m. Quebec vs. Tampa Bay at Halifax, N.S., 6:40p.m. Winnipeg Ill Vancouver, 8:t0 p.m. Boston at Toronto, 8:10p.m. Ottawa at Montreal, 8:10 p.m. New York Rangers at San Jose, 10:40 p.m. COLLEGE BASKETBALL Top 25 No. 2 Kentucky vs. Georgia, 4 p.m. No. 5 Michigan vs. Minnesota, 3 p.m. No. 6 Kansas vs. Kansas State, 2 p.m. No. 9 Aortda State w. Clemson, 4 p.m. No. 10 Wake Forest VB. Georgia Tach, 1 :30 p.m. No. 11 Vanderbl~ VB. Rortda, 8:30 p.m. No. 12 Utah VII. Fresno State, 9:35p.m. No. 13 Arkansas VB. Mississippi State, 8:05 p.m. No. 15 UNLV VB. New Mexico State, 11 p.m. No. 17 Pittsburgh vs. Connecticut, 8 p.m. No. 18 Tulane VB. Florida Atiantic, 3 p.m. No. 19 MassachuseHs at Rhode Island, Noon No. 20 Iowa at Northwestern, 8 p.m. No. 24 Marque«e vs. Wisconsin-Green Bay, Noon No. 25 St. John's at Miami, 7:30 p.m. SUNDAY BASKETBALL National Beeketball Aeeoclellon All-Star Game at Utah, 6 p.m. HOCKEY National Hockey League St. Louis at Wuhington, 1 :30 p.m. Pittsburgh at Hartford, 1 :40 p.m. Detroit at Minnesota, 2:10p.m. Calgary at Chicago, 2:40 p.m. Edmonton at Montreal, 7:10 p.m. Quebec at New Jersay, 7:40p.m. COLLEGE BASKETBALL Top 25 No. 1 Indiana vo. No. 14 Purdue, 2:45 p.m. No. 3 North Carolina at No. 23 VIrginia, 1 :30 p.m. No. 4 Arizona VII. No. 8 Cincinnati at America West Phoenix, 3:45 p.m. No. 7 Duke at N.C. State, 3:45p.m. No. 16 Seton Hall vs. Gaorgetown at the ""'· 12:30 p.m. No. 22 louisville at Houston, 3:45 p.m.  BASEBALL American L..gua CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Signed Gene Nelson, pitcher, to a minor-league contract. CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Acquired Kevin Balcher, outfielder, from the Texas Rangers for Ever Magallanes, Infielder. KANSAS CITY ROYALs-Agreed to terms with Steva Shifflett, Doug Harris, Ed Pierce and Billy Brewer, pitchers; Lance Jennings, catcher; Bob Hamelin and Phil Hiatt, Infielders, and Kavln Koslofsld, outfielder, on one-year contracls. SEATTLE MARINERS-Agreed to terms with Randy Johnson, pitcher, on a one-year contract. National League CINCINNATI REDs-Agreed to terms with Tim Belcher, p~cher, on a one-year contract. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIEs-Agree to terms with Todd Pratt, catched, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National Beeketbell Aeeoclatlon CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Darrell Walker, guard, for the remainder of the season. United Statee Baeketbell League LONG ISLAND SURF-Named Laverne Tart assistant general manager lor youth and community relations, and Allen RosenblaH director of flnanca. FOOTBALL Netlonal Football League LOS ANGELES RAIDERs-Named Jim Haslett linebackers coach. MINNESOTA VIKINGs-Named Chris Foerster, ass1stant offensive line coach. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Dean Caligulre, ollanslve lineman. HOCKEY National Hockey League lOS ANGELES KINGS-Assigned Jim Thompson, right wing, to Phoenix of International Hockey league. WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Agreed to terms with Stefan Ustorl, center, on a two-year contract. OLYMPICS USA BASKETBALL-Named Tara VanDerveer, Stanford women's baaketball coach, coach lor the 1993 USA women's national team. US NATIONAL JUNIOR SWIMMING TEAMS-Namad Susan Petersen Lubow, Kings Point athletic director, assistant manag.,.. of the US national Junior men's and women's swim teams. COLLEGE LOUISVILLE-Named James Bell defensive backfield coach. VIRGINIA TECH-suspended Thomas Elliott, forward, and Jimmy Carruth, canter, from the basketball team lor one game lor violating team rules.  How the top 25 t..me In The A..oclated Pre.. college b ..ketbell poll tared thle week: 1. Indiana (23·2) beat Illinois 93·72. Next: vs. No. 14 Purdue, Sundey. 2. Kentucky (19·2) beat South Carolina 87~. Next: vs. Georgia, Saturday. 3. North Carolina (21·3) beat Clamson 80-87. Next: at No. 23 VIrginia, Sunday. 4. Arizona (17·2) did not play. Next: vs. Arizona State, Thursday. 5. Michigan (20-4) beat Penn State 80-70. Next: vs. Minnesota, Saturday. 6. Kansas (20·3) lost to Ol<iahoma 80-77. Next: vs. Kansas State, Saturday. 7. Duke (19-4) cld not play. Naxt: at No. 23 VIrginia, Thursday. 8. Cincinnati (20·2) beat South Florida 72-50. Next: at No. 4 Arizona, Sundey. 9. Florida State (20-8) beat North Carolina State 72­71. Naxt: vs. Clemson, Saturday. 10. Wake Forest (17-4) beat Maryland 88-84. Next: vs. Georgia Tach, Saturday. 11. Vanderbilt (20·4) beat LSU 87-86. Next: vs. Rortda, Saturday. 12. Utah (19-3) did not play. Next: VII. Air Force, Thursday. 13. Arkansas (16-8) cld not play. Next: VII. Mississippi State, Saturday. 14. P..-due (15·5) did not play. Next: at No. 1 Indiana, Sunday. 15. UNLV (16·3) did not play. Next: VB. New Mexico State, Saturday. 16. Seton Hall (19-8) beat No. 25 St. John's 95-85, OT. Next: VB. Georgetown, Sunday. 17. PIHsburgh (15·6) did not play. Next: vs. Connecticut, Saturday. 18. Tulane (18-4) did not play. Next: vs. North Carolina Charlotte, Thursday. 19. MassachuseHs (17-4) did not play. Next: at Buffalo, Thursday. 20. Iowa (15-8) did not play. Next: at Northwestern, Saturday. 21. New Orleans (19-2) did not play. Naxt: at Lamar, Thursday. 22. louisville (t4·7) did not play. Next: at Houston, Sunday. 23. Virginia (16-5) cld not play. Naxt: vs. No. 7 Duke, Thursday. 24. MarqueHe (18-4) beat Notre Dame 69-81. Next: vs. Wisconsin-Green Bay, Saturday. 25. St. John'o (t4-7) lost to No. t6 Saton Hall 95-85, OT. Next: at Miami, Saturday.  
Ceballos, Phoe.  176  317  .555  
Davie, Ind.  189  342  .553  
Brlckowskl, Mil.  328  597  .549  
Thorpe, Hou.  212  386  .549  
D..-naa, Phoe.  186  346  .540  
Cerr, S.A  204  379  .538  
Nance, Clev.  354  862  .535  



~~  
Notre Dame-17 Penn State-16 SERIES 8-8-1 November 14, 1992 Notre Dame Stadium  ~$10! all profits benefit the South Bend Center lor the Homeless  
Buy acopy at the Lafortune Info Desk l99t.  outside of O'Hara Lounge Feb. 20 from 12-4 Alumni Legacy Reception J.A.C.C. Concourse 4-5  

Make Checks payable to:Center lor the Homeless, Inc. 
~JITuif tl"tde>t'? ~end $15 lo/ tKe. ~o-~..tR ~J3end eentvvf&"t tK.e.J'Lun.efe.M, 81 ~~ ~-0ITLc.Ki~an, ~outK HLnd, ,cj~)llt660 1 

----~~---~--------~-~----------------------~----------------~-­
page 17 

Pitchers and catchers begin their springs 
The big day that baseball fans waited for all winter arrived Thursday, and not even a little rain in Florida and Arizona could dampen spirits: Spring training has started! 
Pitchers and catchers from 15 of the 28 teams reported to camp in places like Vero Beach, Sarasota and Scottsdale, with the first official workouts planned for Friday. 
Before breaking out the bats and balls, however, there was other business to attend to after a busy off-season in which players changed teams like never before. 
In Bradenton, Fla., the Pittsburgh Pirates began preparing to win their fourth straight NL East title after losing the Jikes of Barry Bonds, Doug Drabek, Jose Lind, Danny Jackson, Roger Mason, Alex Cole and others. The Pirates hope new players in camp named Young, Garcia, Martin, Backlund and DeLos Santos can take their place. 
"Maybe they should hand out those little name tags to everyone; like they wear at conventions, that say, 'Hi, my name is .. .'" center fielder Andy Van Slyke said. 
At least a lot of the Pirates know each other. In Tucson, Ariz., 63 players reported for the expansion Colorado Rockies' first camp, and they spent a lot of time making introductions. 
"Whenever I meet someone new -which is almost everybody around here -I repeat their name three times to myself," said Steve Reed, who pitched 18 games for the San Francisco Giants last season. 
"There are 63 guys here, and I'm the only guy from the Giants organization. Trying to remember each guy's name, all the way from reporters to the clubhouse guys to the front-office guys and especially my fellow players, well, it's difficult," he said. 
The one pitcher who needs no introduction this spring is Nolan Ryan, who will be playing his record 27th and final season this year. 
Ryan, 46, was not among the 32 players who reported to the Texas Rangers' camp on Thursday. He's expected at Port Charlotte, Fla., next week and will work out for the first time on either Feb. 28 or March 1. 
Belgian Waffles  each  
$2 OFF  Peel & Eat Shrimp  person in  
Prime Rib  your party 
Beverage Included  

In Port St. Lucie, Fla., New York Mets manager Jeff Torborg said he will approach this spring training with a looser reign, mainly because he knows his veterans better. 
"Our practices will be about an hour shorter," he said...And I'm going to watch the kids early. The veteran players I know." 
Three of those young players, center fielder Ryan Thompson, second baseman Jeff Kent and catcher Todd Hundley begin the spring as starters for a team that finished a disappointing fifth in the NL East last year. 
While pitchers and catchers are the only ones scheduled to be in camp this early, other players are showing up. 
Dale Murphy, limited to just 18 games last season because o knee problems, joined 12 other Philaelphia players in a workout two days before the start of the Phillies' camp in Oearwater, Fla. 
Bert Blyleven, back with his third stint with Minnesota, was an early arrival at the Twins' camp in Fort Myers, Fla. 
Celebrate 

junior Parents Weekend 
with a 

Limited Edition Handcolored Print 
ofyour Junior's Dorm 

by Ken David 
On Sale O'Hara Room-LaFortune Feb 19&20-9am-6pm 
At Coopers & Lybrand, the term •best and brightest" isn't just an empty promise. 
It's a commitment. 

And the proof is right here in black and white. We're looking for the best people we can find to become part of the team that serves over 400 companies in the Fortune 1 000, and more top 100 international companies than any other professional services firm. 
If you're on the fast track, why get off it? Join the com­pany that will keep you there. 
Coopers&Lybrand 
NOT JUSI' KNOWLEDGE. KNOW HOW. 
Friday, February 19, 1993 The Observer 
Bo Jackson returns to diamond 
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP) -Bo Jackson took a few more steps Wednesday in his bid to return to baseball with an artificial hip, working out at the Chicago White Sox camp a day before spring training officially starts. 
Jackson, with a barely notice­able limp, ran the bases, took batting practice and fielded grounders at first base. His 40­minute session came under the watchful eye of team trainers and a few fans who wandered into Ed Smith Stadium. 
Jackson worked out earlier this year at Comiskey Park in Chicago, running sprints through the corridors. He ar­rived in Sarasota on Monday and began drills designed to determine whether he will be able to play this year after missing the entire 1992 season. 
So far in Florida, Jackson has not tried to slide on the bases. 
"I don't forsee a problem," White Sox trainer Herm Schneider said. "He'll slide head-first on his right side." 
Jackson did not comment on his progress. He has told the White Sox public relations de­partment that he does not plan to speak with reporters about his return. 
Jackson, 30, underwent hip replacement surgery last April. He has spent almost a year getting accustomed to the plas­tic-and-metal prothesis in his left hip. 
Pitchers and catchers are scheduled to report to Chicago's camp on Thursday, and the first workout is set for Friday. The rest of the team is to report next Tuesday and practice the following day. 
Jackson's comeback is sure to be the main attraction for the White Sox this spring. The team 
VILLAGE LANDING 
SUNDAY BRUNCH 
10 a.m.~ 2 p.m. Omelettes Made to Order 
52565 US 33 N. at Darden Road North Village Mall 272..8180 expires 2/21/93 
already has featured Jackson in its preseason ticket advertising, and hopes he will be able to provide some of the excitement he did before being injured in January 1991 in an NFL playoff game for the Los Angeles Raiders. 
Jackson's last full season in the majors was 1990, when he hit .272 with 28 home runs and 78 RBis for Kansas City. He played 111 games, most of them in the outfield. 
Jackson was released by the Royals in March 1991 and signed by the White Sox in April. He went through a reha­bilitation program that took him through the minors, and returned to the majors in September, hitting .225 with three homers and 14 RBis in 23 games, all of them as a des­ignated hitter. 
Next week, Jackson will likely move into the outfield for workouts. As much as the White Sox would like to see Jackson be able to play outfield this season, they would be happy to see him healthy enough to serve as the full-time designated hitter. 
Jackson, a former Heisman Trophy running back at Auburn, is the only player to be an All-Star in the major leagues and the NFL. He was the most valuable player of the 1989 All­Star game at Anaheim Stadium, leading off the bottom of the first inning with a home run and later showing off his speed. 

WSND88.9FM 
Proudly Presents ... 
'Ute Second ~nual 3ine ~rts 3und Concert 
r~~fom~ 
~ 0f'ame §)~a/~ 
Sunday, February 21 2:00p.m. Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum of Art 
Tickets are only $5.00 for adults, or $2.00 for students and senior citizens and are available now at the LaFortune Box Office, 
or by calling 631-8128. 
All proceeds benefit WSND, Notre Dame Public Radio 
• 


• 
page 18 

Former champ Larry Holmes sued in L.A. 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Orange County fight promoters are suing former heavyweight boxing champion Larry Holmes, claiming he broke a contract by refusing to complete a four-fight deal. 
Jury selection is scheduled to begin Friday in U.S. District Court. 
Promoter Bob Rey met Holmes at a celebrity roast in 1990 and interested him in making a comeback, said Frank J. Lizarraga Jr., an attorney for Rey and his associate, Jason Schlessinger. 
Holmes, the WBC heavyweight champion from 1978-84, fought one bout against Tim (Doc) Anderson, which he won easily, but he declined to fight again for the promoters, they claimed. He has since had fights for other promoters. 
The dispute has led to lawsuits by each side, and the promoters' company, LBA Associates Inc. of Newport Beach, Calif.. has filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Santa 
Ana. 

Earlier this week, a Pennsylvania state judge ruled against the promoters and negated their deal with Holmes. A motion by Holmes' lawyers to overturn the federal case here was rejected, however, and trial began Wednesday. 
American Heart Association 


The Observer Friday, February 19, 1993 
Norris-Blocker for WBC crown in Mexico 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Terry lightweight championship Norris, the WBC super against Greg Haugen. welterweight champion, is out "People still think that Chavez to prove a point Sautrday, but is the best fighter in the world, Maurice Blocker, Norris' oppo­but I'm here to prove that I nent, believes the point cannot am," said Norris. be proved. "I respect all champions," said 
The Norris-Blocker match is Blocker, who is the IBF one of four title bouts on a show welterweight champion. "As a that will feature Mexican box­fighter, I don't believe what is ing idol Julio Cesar Chavez in written about other fighters. defense of the WBC super "I just don't believe there is any greatest fighter in the world. I just don't believe that." 
"Chavez is No. 1," said Azumah Nelson, who will de­fend the WBC super feather­weight title against Mexican Gabriel Ruelas on the card. Nelson, however, made it clear that he is not including himself when he ranks Chavez as the best. 
The 25-year-old Norris and the 25-year-old Blocker both 
.are fine boxers. The 6-foot-1 Blocker might be a little slicker, but Norris, 5-10, appears stronger and faster. 
Norris, of Campo, Calif., has a 33-3 record, with 19 knockouts. Blocker of Washington, has a 34-2 record, with 18 knockouts. 
"I predict a long, hard, painful fight for Maurice Blocker," Norris said. 
Another delay in signing Lewis-Tucker contract 
LONDON (AP) -The signing of King and Tucker were in Mex­
a contract for the scheduled May 8 title fight in Las Vegas between WBC heavyweight champion Lennox Lewis and Tony Tucker has been delayed. 
Lewis' manager on Thursday blamed financial demands by promoter Don King. 
Frank Maloney said that un­der WBC rules, Lewis is entitled to 80 percent of the $12.16 mil­lion purse for making his de­fense in the challenger's home country. But Maloney said King, Tucker's promoter, was demanding a 7 5-25 split. 
The deadline for the signing of a contract had been set for Friday, but Maloney said it was unlikely the deal will be com­pleted by then. Instead, he said the WBC had decided to vote on whether to accept King's de­mands. 

• 
~(J)S 
Open Monday-Saturday 
Closed Sunday 10% discount on dinners for ND/SMC students with ID or coupon 

Oak Hill Condo 
For Sale 

Unique 3 level Design 
3 bedroom, 3 baths 
Custom built deck with view of Dome 
Must See! 
Call Margaret 271-7288 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following Saint Mary's positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jennif?r Habrych by 5 p.m., Thursday, February 25, 1993. Applications can be dropped off at either the Notre Dame Observer office or the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more information about any of the positions, call Jennifer at 631-5303 or 284-4312. 
I 
ico City where the WBC is based and where King is promoting the Grand Slam boxing card on Saturday night. 
"I bid on the fight in the un­derstanding that the split would be 75-25," King said. "(Promoter Dan) Duva and them don't want this fight to come off. They're embarrassed because they lost the bid. If they don't sign, Lewis will lose the title the same way he won it. 
Lewis was awarded the WBC title when Riddick Bowe was stripped of the title. 
Despite the wrangling, Maloney said the fight should go ahead as scheduled. 
"'Welcome ?arenls~ Lasagna, 
Homemade Spaghetti, 
Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
256-1444 
1213 Lincolnway West Mishawaka just East of 100 Center 
INDIANA AUTQ INSURANCE 
Our good rates tnay S8Ve you money We now offer a Good Student Diacount Call fer a quote
9 a.m.-5p.m. 289..1993 Offia next ro Campus 

"The fight is not in doubt," he said. "Everything else has been agreed on." 
Maloney expressed disdain at King's tactics. 
''I'm sure Don King will come up with something else next week," he said. "I hope King tries more tricks. It only makes Lennox more angry, more de­termined." 
Lewis' camp has included a clause in the contract that for­bids King from making any di­rect contact with the British fighter. 
Maloney discounted any pos­sibility of a unification bout against Riddick Bowe, who holds the WBA and IBF titles. He said Lewis was already look­ing ahead to a second defense this summer in ·England, pos­sibly against fellow Briton Frank Bruno. 
Bowe is due in London next week to watch the fight be­tween undefeated British heavyweight contender Herbie Hide and Michael Murray. Hide's manager, Barry Hearn, said he will open talks with Bowe's camp for a possible world title fight. 
The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kenya johnson by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kenya at 631-4540 for more information about either position. 
Spring Break Loan 
• $300 minimum, $300 maximum 
• Deferred payments 
• 9.3% APR 

• Students with good credit or no credit qualify No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
"Good For You" 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University 


------~~--~· --~ ~-· 
The Observer Friday, February 19, 1993 
Men's track at Indiana meet 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team competes this weekend in the Indiana lntercollegiates~ held at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
The meet will be scored but will not feature many of the Irish top performers. Absent from this competition will be Mike McWilliams. Nate Ruder, Mike Miller and Todd Herman. 
"The competition here is actually pretty decent. We 
engal 
continued from page 24 
past two Bouts. The Illinois native has walked through the first two rounds the past years only to fall in the finals to a much lesser foe. 
"This is going to be the year," comments Hall. If focused, this should be the case. But if his mind slips look for Senior Fred Sharkey to benefit. 
150-pound 

Joe Carrigan returns from a year ofT as the big favorite. He won the weight class two years ago and looks to earn his sec­ond title. Steve Clar, a junior from Morrissey hall, stands as Carrigan's biggest challenge in the sophomore loaded division. 
155-pound 

This may be the weakest di­vision after being one of the strongest a year ago. Shane Hitzman's graduation leaves the division with no returning champion. Seniors Brian Antonson and Jamie Boyd are the best of the bunch, but it is pretty much an open field. 
really take a yery 
low attitude to.wards cmnpedti(m," said h'ish He Track Coa£.h Joe Piane. This meet will give Fasano,· d:i~ Freshman· dista specialist · frotrt Canada. an opportuni~~ to r~tt the mile> Coach Piane alsP hopes that the Distance Medley team will qualify for the ~:CM 
cht¥npio~hips+ ._ ..,,,,~=· 
«This meet gives guys the opportuni~y to. race. that don't 
normally get a chance to compete." says Piane. 
160-pound 

This shines as the strongest division with two top fighters who could be the clear cut fa­vorite if they were five pounds lighter. Jeff Goddard used a quick jab to reach the finals at 155-pounds a year ago and must be considered the fa­vorite. Goddard will receive strong competition in the form of junior Kevin Mullaney who fell to Goddard in the semifinals last year. 
"I think there are some really good fighters this year, and it is going to be a tough road to the finals," said Goddard. 
165-pound 

This experienced group is highlighted by the skills of Brian Weiford and Jamie Bailey. Bailey could be a serious contender. He is one of two former wrestlers in the Bouts and has looked impressive during training. 
"Brian's pretty good," said Bailey. "But I think that I can do alright. My wrestling skills help me out, help me with my balance and my quickness." 
175-pound Kevin O'Rourke seems likely to win the division if he can get 
Happu 21 21 Bettu! 
"Yeah, uou Rnow mel" 
Love, The Rest of the o-baII possee! 

Women's track looks to rebound at IU 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
track team will travel to 
Bloomington, IN, this afternoon 
to compete in the Indiana Col­
legiates, featuring teams from 
across the state, including Indi­
ana, Purdue, and Ball 
State-Notre Dame's nemesis in 
last week's Ball State 
Invitational. 
Individual standouts for the 
Irish included Becky Alfieri, 
who won the 1000 meter run, 
past Tim Mahoney in the open­ing round. Brendan Nelligan and Mike Epperly appear most likely to meet O'Rourke in Friday's finals. 
"The division has some pretty good guys. Nelligan has a really stiff, powerful right," said O'Rourke, "and Epperly is also a very good fighter." 
185-pound 

Eric Poley, a veteran of Bengal Bouts, is the favorite in this depleted field. Only four boxers are competing for the title. Joining Poley is sopho­more Harry Zembillas who seems likely to be in the finals. 
195-pound 

Jeff Lyman and Shawn Duffy are the only two boxers in the division. Take you pick. 
Heavyweight 

Matt Carr was the winner a year ago and is the early fa­vorite. His opponent is football player Huntley Bakich. If Bakich, a sophomore, shows as much promise in the ring as he did during brief moments on the football field his freshman year, this could be quite a bat­tle. 
AP-The big day that baseball fans waited for all winter arrived Thursday, and not even a little rain in Florida and Ari­zona could dampen spirits: Spring training has started! 
Pitchers and catchers from 15 of the 28 teams reported to camp in places like Vero Beach, Sarasota and Scottsdale, with the first official workouts planned for Friday. 
Before breaking out the bats and balls, however, there was other business to attend to after a busy off-season in which 

"WILDLY AUDACIOUS••!' 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
" ... PURE POETRY." 
-Manohla Dargis, VILLAGE VOICE 

"A GREAT FILM." 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 

"TWO THUMBS UP!" 
-SISKEL & EBERT 
Trisha Joseph, who won the triple jump, and Karen Harris and Rachel Kavanaugh, who took first and second, respec­tively, in the shot put. 
"I felt that we did reasonably well last week," said coach Joe Piane. "We can always im­prove, though." 
The Irish will be without freshman sprinter Erica Peter­son, who will be travelling to Winnipeg, Canada, for the Canadian Nationals. Last week, Peterson ran the 800 meters for the first time during the indoor track season, placing second behind Western Michigan runner Jill Stamison. In previ­ous meets, Peterson has won many sprinting events, includ­ing the 55 meter hurdles, the 200, and the 400 meter dash. 
"This is not the most impor­tant meet of the year for us," continued coach Piane. "We're giving our runners a chance to try different events to help them with their times in their regular races." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

lnterhall floor hQCkey referees are needed. Anyone interested shOuld call the RecSports office at 631-6100. 
Spring break trips to Steamboat, CO are still available for all interested. For more information, call Chris Boone of the ND Ski Chili at 273-2958. · 
lnterhall lacrosse entries are due by February 24 at the RecSports office and there will be~ captain's meeting February 25 atS p.m. ip.the J.(\(:C A11ditoril,Ull, 
Thf)> ND/SMC Equestrian Club will have a meeting February 22 at7:~0 p.m•.in· 2?2 Hesburgh Library~ lf you have questions. call Megan at 634-2784. 
NDISMO Mtome11•s lacrosse club will have practice on Sundays from 8-9 p,:.tn. at LOftus. 
Cr~S$ country s~i rentat is ava,ilahle in the Rockn~ Golf Shop. Check out times are 4:30~5:30 p.m. on Thursday, Friday. a,nd Sat~ciay .<l,lld 12~1 p.m. ~n Saturday. Check in times are 4:30­5i3~ P•tn• JFlld~y;Saturd(l.y and S1¥1day and 12~1 on Saturday. 
The Notre Dame PQm Pon sqt~ad will be holding an initi me~tjng ~gardiQg tryouts for the upcoming season on . ... 4 at'I' p.m. in the N9tre Dame Room of LaFortune. you ~ave qqestio:ns. ph~ase call Natalie Brohl at 284-4329 or S~P~f Ti$;¢~~r a~ 6,:3,4·40\!Q, · 
club will ~eet at6 p.m~ on February 2L Bring $10 
$ > ... · ••.·... · .•.·. et~ ~n ~(;) M an· outside practice if the pe#mits ~tit. at Stepan fields. · 
players changed teams like everyone, like they wear at never before. conventions, that say, 'Hi. my 
In Bradenton, Fla., the name is ..."' center fielder Andy Pittsburgh Pirates began Van Slyke said. preparing to win their fourth At least a lot of the Pirates straight NL East title after los­know each other. In Tucson, ing the likes of Barry Bonds, Ariz., 63 players reported for Doug Drabek, Jose Lind, Danny the expansion Colorado Jackson, Roger Mason, Alex Rockies' first camp, and they Cole and others. The Pirates spent a lot of time making in­hope new players in camp troductions. named Young, Garcia, Martin, "Whenever I meet someone Backlund and DeLos Santos can new -which is almost take their place. everybody around here -I 
"Maybe they should hand out repeat their name three times 
those little name tags to to myself," said Steve Reed, who pitched 18 games for the San Francisco Giants last sea­son. 
"There are 63 guys here, and I'm the only guy from the Giants organization. Trying to remember each guy's name, all the way from reporters to the clubhouse guys to the front­office guys, well, it's difficult," he said. 
JeiTe.-.on 

I 
-~ 

Main & Jefferson l:l.mm Mon·Th 11 a.m. • 11 p.m. Fri·Sac 11a.m. • 11 p.m. Nota Franchise• A Family OwnedBusiness Sun 4 p.m.· 9 p.m 
257 ,_ 1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York 'Pizza 
lzones• Hot and Cold Subs•Stromboli 
3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 

' 9:45 
~­


~.------pa_g_e_2_0__~----------~----~--~---~he ~-b-~~er 
, 
I 
1 
:. Virginia completes season sweep 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) -Once able to hold the upper hand over all of college basket­ball, Duke now can't even do it in its own conference. 
Thomas Hill missed a 3­pointer at the buzzer Thursday night. giving No. 23 Virginia a 58-55 victory over the seventh­ranked Blue Devils. 
It marked the first time since 1990 that Duke lost back-to­hack games to anybody, and the first time since 1990 the Blue Devils were swept by an Atlantic Coast Conference op­ponent. 
"I think all that is good. That means we've had a hell of a few years," eoach Mike Krzyzewski said. "That doesn't mean it's over, but I would always like somebody to say it's been four years or three years -as long as it's losses. If it's wins, then I'm baek selling Polish sausages in Chicago." 
Virginia (16-5, 8-4 ACC) took sole possession of fourth place in the league and dumped Duke (19-5, 7-5) into the league's seeond tier. 
"I don't think I've ever felt as good about an offensive per­formance as ugly as that one," said Virginia coaeh Jeff Jones, whose Cavaliers shot 36.8 per­cent and had 18 turnovers. 
"It's a disappointing loss for us," Krzyzewski said, "because I thought our kids were ready. But I'm not down on my team. I think it's the type of thing where our younger guys can improve on it and show matu­rity." 
Cory Alexander scored 20 points and Ted Jeffries 10 for Virginia, which last month broke Duke's 36-game ACC home winning streak. 
Duke, playing in its first game sinee losing leading scorer Grant Ifill to a sprained toe, got 16 from Cherokee Parks and 14 from Thomas Hill, who was held scoreless in the final 16 minutes. 
"I think it's evident that we're not as deep a team as people might think," Krzyzewski said. "I would say we'll be there. I'm just not sure when that will be." 
Duke trailed in much of the first half, when the Blue Devils shot 32 percent and had nine turnovers. But Duke picked up the pace after halftime, forcing nine lead changes and four ties before Virginia again gained the upper hand. 

Friday, February 19,1993 
-
The Observer/Dave Hungeling The victorious Morrissey basketball team poses with their exuberant fans after their interhall championship win over Off-campus. 
Friends don't let friends drive drunk. 
L----------------~ 

server 

is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Graphics Manager Illustrations Manager 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kevin Hardman by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kevin at 631-7471 for more information about either osition. 
------l~~~~~~h$3~.~50~--~ 
•~., ,:.~ --~~--,.~~,.,~--t.\~;;;~";,~n
·­

L----------------~ 
ift. Bountifu Bas ets 
Midterm Munchies 

• 2 dozen home made cookies 
$2295
•2 
LARGE muffins 

•4 
fruit 


delivery free on Campus
• 8 oz. Snackems 
1-800-373-9716

•8 
oz. California Mix 


or • 2 packages gum 271-9776 

• 
2 Candy bars 




I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
: 
I 
I 

~--------------------------~1 
at I Martin's I Ironwood Plaza North 
I 
S.R. 23 & Ironwood 
I
(219) 273-2234 
I
Fax: (219) 273-2445 
I 

I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
t~~~ : 
FREE I 
I 
Regular 6" BLIMPIE Sub Sandwich with 1 the purchase of any Sub Sandwich of 1 equal or greater value. I 
Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or 
1 
duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer must pay any sales tax due. Not good in combination with any 
1 
other offer. Cash value 1/100 of 1¢. Offer expires 3/31/93. 
~llalr('utdng('~ 



r------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------~------------~--~ 
Friday, February 19, 1993 The Observer page 21 
Morrissey defeats 0-C in lnterhall Basketball, 42-31 .. 

BY RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 
Following two tough road losses to Kentucky and Ten­nessee last weekend, the Notre Dame women's tennis team is hoping that the familiar con­fines of the Eck Tennis Pavilion will help reverse their fortunes. The Irish, in only their second
Serving

and third horne matches of the season, host Louisiana State on 
Friday and Texas Christian on 
ND/SMC 
Students for 
Saturday at the Eck. "These matches are very big 
27 years 
for us," said junior Christy Faustrnann, "at least in terms of
Wclcorne Junior FEBRUARY SPECIAL 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 
Using a tenacious press and taking advantage of high per­centage shooting,. the Morrissey Manor now hold the title of interhall basketball champions after knocking off a strong Off­Campus squad 42-31. 
Point guard Steve Clear was the motivating factor behind the Morrissey victory, dominating the game in the first half. As coach Andy Curoe noted, "Steve started things off right for us, controlling the tempo, and the rest of the team followed his lead." 
Morrissey opened the game using its 1-2-2 press to force turnovers and bad passes, while making almost every shot it attempted in the first few minutes. Most of these baskets were the result of Clear's ef­forts, as he time and again beat his man to the basket and dished the ball out to sharp­shooters Torn Sear and Mike Martin. 
The first half was character­ized by up-tempo play, with 
both teams running at every opportunity. However, this worked to Morrissey's advan­tage. 
"We substituted every three or four minutes to keep our guys fresh. Also, our big men, 
. Brian Corbett and Brendan Tully, ran the floor extremely well, which forced 0-C's Brian Ratigan and Eric Jones to play both ends," Curoe said. 
0-C captain Todd -Reynders concurred with this, saying, "It's obvious that they play to­gether more than we do. Their press caused a lot of problems, and when we were able to set up in the half court, we had one pass and a shot rather than moving it around." 
Inside play was a key factor as well, since the biggest ques­tion before the game was how Morrissey's inside players would fare against the power of Ratigan, Jones, and Ray Griggs. This question was quickly answered by Corbett and Tully, both of whom blocked numerous shots and effectively clogged the lane. In fact the key to the game was the rebounding of the Morrissey team as a whole, since all five players crashed the boards, reducing 0-.C's second chance shots to a minimum. 

After running out to a 26-10 halftime lead, Morrissey with­stood a slight second half rally, as 0-C took advantage of Clear sitting on the bench with foul trouble. Both Griggs and shooting guard Brad Leshnock hit a couple of three pointers to close the gap, but Morrissey was able to hold out with tight defense played by Joe Godin and John Neal. 
Any chance at an 0-C fourth quarter rally was ended by the patient Morrissey spread of­fense, which ran the clock down and kept the ball in the hands of Clear and Sear, forcing 0-C into desperation fouling. The game ended to the rhythmic clapping of the hundred-plus Morrissey faithful who watched their team earn the title. 
Women's tennis prepares for TCU, LSU 

Parents! 

D. 
tnner

Special Mon.-Fri. $1oo off 
all dinners 
After 3 p.m. 

Open at 6:30a.m. daily 
getting back on track. The
S . l 

teams we're playing this week­
Our House pecta ty 
end aren't as good as some of the other teams we've faced,
Oven-Baked 
but at 2-5, we can't take any­thing lightly." 
Apple Pancakes 
Fellow junior Lisa Tholen added, "Right now we need the confidence that would come
$1°0 offal/month 
from winning these matches. 
no coupon needed 
This is our chance to get back into the swing of winning." 
· While the team is disappointed with its won-loss record, no large scale changes are in store for the squad. 
"Everyone has been playing well," said Faustrnann, "It just hasn't come all together yet." 
On an individual basis, how­ever, Faustrnann, who won both her matches in last weekend's losses, is trying to implement some minor alterations in her game. 
"I've been working on trying to play more aggressively-rushing the net more and taking more control on the baseline. I need to turn my level of play up a notch." 
Tholen, on the other hand, is more concerned right now with her mental toughness than any physical aspects of her game. 
''I'm corning off a couple difficult losses," she said, "and I need to get some confidence back. Winning this weekend will go a long way in doing 
UNTIL THERE IS NO LONELINESS, NO 

U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
DESTITUTION, NO SICKNESS, NO WAR ... 

272-7433 Just North of Campus 
Please support the American Red Cross 

WELCOME PARENTS!! 
Remember to visit 
The Varsity Shop 
IIon the concourse of the JACCII We have IYD MOM and DAD sweatshirts! 
JPW Weekend Hours: Friday: 11 :30-5:30 Saturday: 11:30-5:30 Sunday: immediately following Brunch-5:30 
ENJOY YouR WEEKEND!! 
that." 
Although unranked, both LSU and TCU will be shooting for an upset of the twenty­second ranked Irish. 
"These will not be easy matches," warned Faustrnann. "Overall, we're probably pretty evenly matched with these teams." 
Tholen added, "I remember from playing LSU the last two years that they're a scrappy, fighting team. Even if we get up early, we can't slow up be­cause they will not give up." 
Playing in the Eck Pavilion, the Irish hope, will be a big in­fluence for the team. 
"Playing at horne is definitely going to help us-especially for the juniors since our parents will be there," said Faustrnann. 
Matches against LSU begin at 4:00 on Friday and on Saturday the action versus TCU 
begins at 1:00. 
Maradonna makes his return for Argentina 
(AP) -Diego Maradona re­
turned to international soccer 
for the first time in 2 1/2 years 
as Argentina and Brazil played 
a 1-1 tie Thursday night. 
The 32-year-old forward 
hadn't played for Argentina's 
national team since the 1-0 
loss to Germany in the World 
Cup final on July 8, 1990. The 
2 1/2-year absence included a 
15-rnonth suspension for 
cocaine use imposed by the 
Italian League on April 6, 
1991, following a positive test 
that March 17. 
"This is a marvelous day. I was anxiously waiting for this," Maradona said after the match. "Before I reached the stadium I was moved to hear so many young people chanting my name." 
Maradona didn't score, but made some fine passes, espe­cially in the second half. He neatly put the ball between de­fenders Mauro Silva and Cafu to Gabriel Batistuta, whose shot narrowly missed the goal, caused a roar that shook the flag-decked grandstands in River Plate Stadium, filled with about 75,000 fans. 


·----~---------­
page 22 The Observer Friday, February 19, 1993 
.. 
1 
'r::=·

=~=:=:=rr=~=~=®~oo=:=[:=:=:=illi=:=:C=illl=:~=:O=llce=:=;=!.,~ 1 ...m~HERE'S ACOURSE 

Water polo to host MAC tourney 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame water polo team will be in action this weekend as it will host the very first tournament of the newly formed Mid-American water polo Conference, including Northern Illinois, Bowling Green, and Southern Illinois. 
"We're looking forward to this tournament, since practice can be quite monotonous," said freshman Walter Morrissey. "We are really happy to be hosting a tournament and are confident that we'll play well in front of the home crowd." 
The Irish will be getting back into tournament play after nearly a three month layoff. In their last tournament, held November 21 in DeKalb, IL, the team finished a respectable fourth place, considering they had only eight healthy players available for the trip. 
In their first game, Notre Dame held strong against a Hoffman Estates, IL, club team before losing 9-7. The team bounced back in the second 

rm. JJ®llll cc~rm. IIDircewcerm.il if®Irce~il ffll.Irce~ ~ 
CONTE;;:c::THENEW
SOF'I'BAILFIEI,D 
PRIZE: 

CDPLAYER Please submit all entries to: 
Name the Field _ , 1 , ~~~n:: Marketing Dept. ~ ~ 
game, trouncing Southern Illi­nois 16-3, but lost to a Milwau­kee men's club team 8-7 in the third place game. 
This weekend, the Irish will be healthy and ready to com­pete in front of the home crowd. Returning for the team will be junior Ed Padinske and freshman Brian Wood, both of whom missed the previous tournament due to injuries. However, Notre Dame will be without player/coach Tony Buczkowski, and will look to Chris O'Hara, Eric Schultz, and co-captains Joe Dummer and Brian Coughlin to pick up the slack both offensively and de­fensively. 
"There's no doubt that these teams are coming here expect­ing to win," commented Dum­mer, who will split duties with Schultz this weekend at the hole-man position. "Our job is to disappoint them." 
The tournament is scheduled to start Friday evening and continue through Saturday afternoon. All games will be held at the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter at the J.A.C.C. 
Irish tennis beat Texas in second round of indoors 
Special to the Observer 
LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY-The University of Notre Dame men's tennis team, ranked sixth in the country, defeated tenth-ranked Texas on Thursday, 4-3, in the second round of the 1993 USTA-ITA 
Men's  National  Indoor  
Intercollegiate  Team  
Championship.  The  win  

improves Notre Dame's record to 4-2, while the Longhorns drop to 2-1. 
Notre Dame, which received a first round bye in the event, will now face top-ranked USC on Friday in the quarterfinals at 12 noon. USC was a 4-3 winner over Alabama-Birmingham on Thursday and had a 6-0 record on the season. The match against the Trojans is a rematch of last spring's NCAA Championship semifinal, in which the Irish upset the de­fending national champion by a 5-l count. 
In the win over Texas, Notre Dame won at the top three sin­gles positions over players all ranked in the top 40. Irish se­nior Will Forsyth, ranked 19th by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association, improved his record to 19-7 on the season 

Redken CAT Shampoo (10 oz) and Conditioner (5 oz) 
$3~ Each/Both for $600 
regularly $5QJ2 each 
Receive I oz. shampoo or conditioner free with haricot while supplies last 
Monday-Friday New Phone Numbers 
9-9 631-5144 Saturday 631-4518 
9-4 

We carry: 
Paul Mitchell, Nexus, Redken Products 
THAT COMBINES li.,ALJAN AN.D ECfl O CS 


Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dome or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­con-eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and worm garlic breodsticks. .JlJ'.., It's all just $5.95. And you -rr-c. r __ f don't hove to be a moth 01..•.~~~ 
major to figure out that ~ • that's a great deal. 
ITALIAN HI '·dAI IHt\N I 
WHERE ALJ.THE BEST Or ITAlY IsYc)URS." 
with a 6-4, 6-2 win over Anders Eriksson, ranked 23rd in the nation. Senior Chuck Coleman beat No. 37 Trey Phillips, 6-7, 6-1, 6-4 and senior Mark Schmidt beat No. 26 Ian Williams, 6-0, 7-5. 
The match began with dou­bles play and in a new format this season, the school that wins the most doubles matches gets one point towards the match score. The team of Coleman and Forsyth won at No. 1 doubles for Notre Dame, defeating the nation's top ranked doubles team of Eriks­son and Phillips by an 8-3 score. 

ON' MI 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 

SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
$5.95 

TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 
~ 

/ ~.)~~·~>·~~?';~j
.... : ;fll.~"!!-:..-,:·~.--n~flii _1 
• Opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503. 
Courtesy of Sports Information Department Senior Chuck Coleman led the Irish tennis team by gaining 2 points in the team victory over Texas 
. 

·· .... 

l
Today 1 
Friday, February 19,1993 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES LOOK M Ti-llS! nilS IS T\-IE BIGGEST SN.OWBI>.Ll It'\ TilE WORLD.'  \-lOW ARE ~0\J GOING TO PICK II UP~  REA.l\\{ CON\11'\\lE'S \0 R\JIN t<\'{ LIFE.  
CROSSWORD  

Crossword Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 
ACROSS 25LAX 44 Contemn announcement 
4& Zona Gale's last 1 Tilting. as a ship 26 Batman's novel& Diplomat's cousin 49 Do someattire 28 Makes reprisals editonal work 11 Bit of wit for 52 Devon river 
14 "-With Love" 
32 Ike's W.W. II 53 Short of 

15 Devotedly colleague followmg 56 Public
33 Listee on a 1040 warehouse
1& Galba's form greetmg 58Arikara
35 Great Barner 17--acids Island 59"-est 18 French river, 3& Proverbial 
laborare ..." scene of four corrupter &o Theater curtain 
W.W. I battles 37 Mark Leyner's &1 Wawaskeesh 19 Band leader "--,Babe" · 
&2 Widow's due Beneke 38 Cited formally 
&3 Rough cabin 
20 Piscatorial 40 Mailed group 41 Statute 22 Siskel's TV provision DOWN partner 42 Cheeseparer 
1 One-time 
24 Companions of 43 Cry of amused 2 Mesa's cousin radii surprise 
3 Ancient Sumerian city 4 Hiccup 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
s Londoner's tea cart & Royal 
page 23 

JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSON 
MA'{R't. '{0\J CO\lLD 
PVI II SOMEI'LACE WI-lEI<£ 'SelMEONE 
W~ILLWA.LK
INn:> If. 
~I ~ .s"' 



adornment 2&Campaign 39 Brom's skinny 48 Oneofthecamies 7 Flavoring for target rival so Historic Irish ouzo 27 Concerning 40 Still; stuffy village 8"-Magic," 28 Parroted 42 Gram weight 51 Noyes's 1948 song 29"-tothe 44 Berate "Drake" is one Church on
9 Cambodia's Nol 45 Shrink in fear 54 Leandro's love 
Time"

1 o Add aspartame 46 Pure and simple 55 Nomologist's
30 Inscribe 
47 Figure skater's forte
31 Scantling 
jump 57 Sen. from Mass. 

32 Museum on 53d St., N.Y.C. 33 Completed 
Get answers to any three clues

23 Men ace ; 34 Wool giver 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·
nuisance 
36 Prince 

25Atall Charles's game 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0108 

SUB COMING ATTRACTIONS... 
S()~ff11t~YR& ~17&ifU'f<1/ ~&5711//1~ FEBRUARY 21 -25 
•Feb. 
21 Nikki Giovanni Check out some of the hottest, most provacative 

•Feb. 
22 Tim O'Brian authors around. All readings at 8 pm in the Hesburgh 

•Feb. 
23 Gloria Naylor Library Auditorium, and a reception in the 

•Feb. 
24 Marge Piercy library lounge follows each reading. 

•Feb. 
25 Edward Albee 


-

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

.. 
Sports 

page 24 Friday, February 19, 1993 

1-----------------1students lace up their gloves to help the 
JIM VOGL 
Chalk Talk 

Baseball swings at Howe offering and strikes out again 
In baseball, it's three strikes and you're out, right? 
Well, such is not the case for wonder­boy Steve Howe. This Spring, the talented lefty reliever returns from his seventh, yes SEVENTH, drug-related suspension. 
As a pitcher, Howe began showing signs of regaining the form he showed as a dominating closer for the Los Angeles Dodgers in the early eighties. He logged 22 innings in Yankee 
pinstripes last season, with  a  3-0  
record and a 2.45 ERA.  
Yet  as  a  human  being,  Howe  
continues to show about as  much  

control as Ray Charles would on the mound. 
Howe's attempted rehabilitation comeback ended abruptly last June, when he pleaded guilty in U.S. District Court in Missoula. Mont., to a misdemeanor charge of attempting to buy a gram of cocaine. (If you can find cocaine in Montana, you must be hooked.) 
Then-commissioner Fay Vincent promptly suspended Howe, a move intended to be a lifetime ban. Hooray for Fay, right? 
Not quite. When the league pulled the rug out from under their commish last fall. they apparently forgot about the integrity standards he tried to uphold within the game. 
On Nov. 12, arbitrator George Nicolau overturned Vincent's decision to ban !lowe after a grievance was filed by the players' union. 
The baseball world should be outraged that such a villian as Steve Howe should get a seventh chance, while one of the game's most faithful, Pete Hose, remains in exhile. 
To deny one man the Hall of Fame glory he deserves because he occasionally participates in the only existing sport (gambling) as old as the Bible-while embracing another man with an obvious narcodics fixation without remorse-is to deny justice itself. 
Major League Baseball is not operating on a double standard of on­field performance. for in that respect, Howe couldn't hold Hose's jock, as they say. 
Hather, the league is operating without standard. 
In such a critical social, racial and economic atmosphere, Major League Baseball must establish some authority to restore to the game such basic principles as "Three strikes, you're out." 
63rd Annual Bengal Bouts begin Sunday at JACC 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The 63rd annual Bengal Bouts answer the bell this Sunday as 75 Notre Dame 
Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. The quarterfinal round is slated for a 2 
p.m. 
starting time in the Joyce ACC Arena. The semifinals will be held the following Wednesday in the JACC Fieldhouse. The finals are Friday at 8 

p.m. 
back in the main arena. 


Made famous by Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano, the director from 1931-1981, the Bouts boast the second largest stu­dent participation beyond the Bookstore Basketball tournament. Over $300,000 dollars have been raised since the in­augural bouts in the 1930's. 
The large number of boxers eclipse the group of 72 which laced up their gloves last year. The large turnout not only spells more funds for the Holy Cross Missions but also adds an additional 
The Observer/JScott Mendenhallk 

Malik Russell will have to come to the forefront if the Irish are going to defeat DePaul on Sunday. 
Irish lacrosse looks towards NCAA tournament 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
As the Notre Dame lacrosse team prepares for the 1993 season, fifth-year coach Kevin Corrigan is understandably ex­cited: "This is an extremely talented group that has a good mix of youth and experience." 
The Irish will need this com­bination of veterans and youth in order to surpass last year's 10-5 record, as they try to repeat their appearance in the NCAA tournament. The road, however, will not be an easy one because the team has put together the toughest schedule ever. 
Senior goalie Chris Parent believes the team is up to the challenge: "We play a really tough schedule that we will overcome because we are a deep team that is anchored by our defense." 
The defense will be Notre 
'-;--------------..:. Dame's strength this year as they
• refurn senior Chip Lonsdale,INSIDE SPORTS junior Garrett Reilly, and ...------,...--~,...--------.sophomore Mike Iorio. This 
•Irish tennis beats Texas 
group started all 15 games last 
see page 22 

year and will be looked to again to keep opposing offenses silent. With the addition of returning
•IH men's basketball championship 
goalies Parent and sophomore 
see page 21 

Ryan Jewell, the Irish defense will be the mainstay of the unit. 
The Irish offense will be the question mark of the team as 
IIWomen's tennis preview 
see page 19 

they attempt to replace their 
weight division this year at 130-pounds, upping the number of divisions to 12. 
Jeff Gerber (140-pound). Matt Carr{heavyweight) are the only returning champions from last year. Joe Carrigan returns after taking a year off following his win at 150-pounds two years ago. 
Barring those three and the always impressive Lou Hall, few big names return, opening the door for new champions. 
A look at each division: 
130-pound 

This new weight class was added to supplement the additional three boxers this year. A relatively young group houses only one junior with two sophomores and a freshman. Eric Garcia's performance in training tabbed him the favorite with fellow sophomore Rob Payne also a contender. 
135-pound There are three words which describe 
Notre Dame tries to break slump at DePaul 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 

The Fighting Irish limp to Chicago this weekend to meet another slumping team in the DePaul Blue Demons, who had lost seven out of their last 11 before downing the UAB Blazers on Tuesday night. 
"Our confidence is at an all-time low," said DePaul coach Joey Meyer. 
The Blue Demons will get no sympathy from the Notre Dame though, as the Irish have lost six out of seven, falling to 24th-ranked Marquette 69-61 in their last outing on Wednesday night. 
Despite having only eight scholarship players available against Marquette, the Irish led for most of the contest before succumbing to the 
graduated all-time leading scorer Mike Sullivan and Brian Mayglothling, who is out for personal reasons. The Irish will look to junior attackers Randy Colley and Robbie Snyder as well as midfielders Ed Lamb and Will Sutton to lead the offense. 
"Colley will score his share of goals this year, but it will be a group effort, with the majority of the offense being generated by the middies," said Corrigan. 
The Irish know they will have to work together in order to get back to the level of play that took them to the NCAA's. 
"We will have to learn to deal with adversity by adapting to the situation and then conquering it. But I'm confident we have the players to do so," Corrigan said. 
The Irish have plenty of young talent, with the likes of freshman Rob Tobin and sophomore Marc Pasquale, expected to contribute 
. significantly. But the question remains as to whether they can . return to the form that garnered them the Midwest Region's bid to the NCAA tournament. The Irish can accomplish their goals, junior midfielder Billy Ahmuty believes, "We are a very athletic team and if we play smart and to our capabilities, we .. can go a long way." i;:;;.;;;:J.;:~". The Irish open their difficult :~*:'*"· ,,, schedule at home February 27 at 

this class: Gerber, Gerber, Gerber. Dillon hall junior Jeff Gerber has destroyed the opposition the past two years en route to two titles. His quest for a third title should be fulfilled quite easily with the only significant other being senior Pat Owens. 
140-pound 

Colin Hanley appears to be the gem of this group with only minimal resistance coming from the rest of the field. Mike Ahearn is a longshot with hope as well as Dan Schmidt. Schmidt was a semifinal loser a year ago. 
"This is a really strong division," said Schmidt. "All the boxers have a chance, but you have to consider Colin the fa­vorite." 
145-pound 

The big question surrounding this division is whether Lou Hall can live up to the billing which he has failed to the 
see BENGALI/ page 19 
superior talent of the Warriors. 

In DePaul, the Irish face a team that may be even younger than they are, as the Blue Demons are led by sophomore Chicagoans Tom Kleinschmidt (18.3 PPG) and Brandon Cole (14. 7 PPG), and junior forward Kris Hill (9.4 PPG, team-leading 8.8 RPG). 
DePaul's senior leadership is provided by athletic guard Terry Davis, who has started every game for the Blue Demons and provides 
15.3 points per game. 

Senior Monty Williams, the Irish's leading scorer and rebounder, will look to rebound from a 10-point performance against the swarming defense of the Warriors by asserting himself Sunday at the Rosemont Horizon. 
·'~ 
The Observer/Jake Peters 
7:00 pm in Loftus versus Junior Tootie Jones led the Irish women's basketball Canisius. 
team into action last night at Loyola. 






