The

VOL. XXV. NO. 91 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12,1993 


THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Officers vote to amend SMC parietal policy 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH administration and Residence Assistant News Editor Ufe have given their effort. RHA proposed the change in December, but the Senior Offi­
Saint Mary's Senior Officers cers asked them to conduct a voted Tuesday to amend the follow-up survey to illustrate College's current parietal policy that student support existed for on a trial basis. the change. The survey results 
Under the new policy, which indicated that 94.34 percent of takes effect March 1, males will the students were in favor of 
no longer be required to leave the proposed change. picture identification at the The Senior Officers re­front desks of the-residence sponded to the proposal so 
halls. Males will be required to quickly because of the RHA's sign in, but not sign out on well-researched presentation
home football weekends and that took earlier concerns into nights of dances, according to account and responded well to Karen Fordham, president of them, said Sister Mary Brassil, Residence Hall Association Senior Officer and acting dean (RHA). of Student Affairs. 
The Senior Officers are cur­"We felt they had answered rently drafting a response to our questions, given us all the RHA that states their approval information and looked at all of of the proposal. the ramifications," said Brassil. 
Fordham said the policy will "We felt they had done all of be in effect on a trial basis until this in a responsible manner, the end of the 1993-94 school and that it was the right time 
year. At the end of that period, and the right thing to do." the Senior Officers will examine Junior Laura Murray, co­how effective the change has chair of RHA hall improvement, been and vote on whether or said that she is very happy that not to make the change a per­the administration acted so 
manent one. quickly in accepting the Fordham said that she is very proposal and hopes the trial pleased with all the support the 
see PARIETALS I page 4 
Hijacker forces jet from Europeto N.Y., surrenders 
from Frankfurt, Germany, to 
of anonymity. Tschuss" -a German form of 
NEW YORK (AP) -A gunman two African cities. The plane The source said hostage ne­"goodbye." hijacked a jetliner with 104 was diverted to Hanover, Ger­gotiators in Kennedy Interna­The hijacker then walked off people aboard Thursday and many, where it was refueled tional Airport's control tower the plane with his hands behind forced it from Austria to New and allowed to take off for New talked with the man during the his head, Federal Aviation York, where he quickly York because the gunman flight, and he remained "very Administration spokesman surrendered. threatened to kill hostages. calm and very cooperative dur­Duncan Pardue said. Law en­
No one was injured during German authorities said the ing negotiations." forcement agents met the hi­the 11-hour ordeal, the first hijacker, who had a pistol, gave The twin-engine Airbus 310 jacker, and the passengers left trans-Atlantic hijacking in more assurances he would surrender landed safely at Kennedy at the plane. than 16 years. once he arrived in the United · 3:50 p.m. and taxied to a re­Seven Americans were 
Germany's Interior Ministry States. mote area of the airport. aboard, along with Japanese, said the hijacker was a Somali Egyptian and German passen­national being deported by German Interior Minister The gunman turned his gers and one Canadian, Norway and was trying to force Rudolf Seiters identified the hi­weapon over to the captain, Lufthansa spokesman Jim officials to let him and his wife jacker as Shuriye Farah Siyad, who held it up to the plane's Freeman said. and child, still in Somalia, go to 31. The U.S. State Department window to show law enforce­the United States to apply for gave his name as Ferah Siyad ment officials outside. Fox said the hijacker would asylum. Shuriye. The hijacker left behind his be arraigned Friday on an air 
The hijacker kept the gun in hat and a note for the pilot, said piracy charge, which carries a 
The man hijacked the his hand during the entire James Fox, head of the FBI's potential jail sentence of 20 Lufthansa plane at gunpoint flight, said a law enforcement New York office. The note said, years to life. over Austria during a flight source who spoke on condition "Thank you. Here's yours. 
DeMars: Effort in Ethiopia needs further study 
By KRISTIN MCGOWAN 
News Writer 
The efforts of humanitarian organizations in the recent Ethiopian war, or in any war, are best studied from the per­spective of market analysis, said William DeMars., in a lec­ture yesterday at the Hesburgh Center. 
Most accounts of humanitar­ian action are descriptive stud­ies by scholars and journalists which tend to oversimplify conditions. DeMars said. Such accounts frequently ignore the relatronship between humani­tarian aid and politics, assum­ing that "humanitarian aid is above politics," he said. 
They also often mistakenly conclude that aid is offered to promote the aims of one or more of the warring factions, according to DeMars. They be­lieve that "it's all politics and 
see DEMARS I page 4 

ND Student Government proposes new debit card 
By CARRIE KINSELLA 
News Writer 
A student identification card that would double as a debit card is one of the projecfs being researched by student government this year. 
The proposed system would use student I.D.s as declining balance cards. Students would pay for the card at the begin­ning of the year and charges would be deducted from it in­stead of having to carry cash, according to Student Body President Greg Butrus. 
The identification card is presently used for meals at the dining halls, check-out at the library, Bookstore charge ac­counts, identification for ath­letic events, and check-cashing and checking account autho­rization. 
In addition to its current functions, the card would also be used for laundry facilities, the Huddle, the Oak Room, Alumni-Senior Club, copy rna­chines, entrance to computer clusters, and access to dorms. 
Implementing the card would involve purchasing and setting up the new system, then adapting all existing equipment to accommodate the card, 
Butrus said. 
A student survey given by Special Projects Commissioner Shannon Windsor earlier this year indicated that 90 percent of the students are in favor of such a system, primarily for its convenience. 
The Huddle led the list of stu­dent priorities for card use, followed by laundry machines, vending machines, copy ma­chines, the Bookstore, and the Copy Shop. 

Sixty-four percent of the stu­dents surveyed preferred the 
debit card system to carrying cash. Similarly, the same per­centage of students felt they would eat more often at the Huddle if such a card were available. 
Thirty departments were represented in the working group appointed to research 
the project. They visited schools such as Western Michi­gan University, where a card system has been implemented, and found that students were "crazy about them...they're a huge convenience." 
The newly-elected team of Frank Flynn and Nikki Well­mann will also be involved in working on the card system. 
In addition to being easier to handle than cash and Detexes, the card could be reproduced in twenty-four hours, instead of the typical three weeks. Stu­dent Body President Greg Butrus said, "The operational costs would be smaller and the services much greater" with the proposed card. 
The working group has fin­ished an extensive proposal and submitted it the the Uni­versity officers. It is included on the agenda for the next meeting and will be addressed then. 


-----~------------------­
page 2 Friday, February 12, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Love letters can really touch the heart 
You render me powerless under your 
zre. When you gaze into my eyes, I am smitten by the sparks that ignite between us. 
Well, maybe that's a little strong for a first love letter, but there 
something to be said for it. A societal tragedy is 


Anna Marie Tabor 
Saint Mary's Editor 

occurring. People aren't -------­
writing letters anymore, and cheesy Shoebox 
cards with trite rhymes are replacing the lyrical 
epistles of yesterday. What a pity, for a heartfelt, 
succulent message lingers in the heart and mind 
for much longer than a stranger's prose. 
Consider what can be done with a l11tter. 
Valentine's Day is the perfect opportunity to 
tell your friends and parents that they are loved 
and appreciated. Sweethearts can remind each 
other of what made them fall in love with each 
other. A valentine can make a lonely person's 
day, as it can anyone's. No one likes an empty 
mailbox. 

The power of the written word bridged CeCe and Hillary for decades in "Beaches." Letters between two worldly lovers fueled a romantic triangle in "Dangerous Liasons." Many insights into the history of the world-and into the young lives of our parents-are revealed through eloquent, passionate, and informational letters. Precious few people today put the effort into writing down their thoughts. 
Kathy toiled for hours to find the precise message she wanted to send to her sweetheart for Valentine's Day. When she had written the final copy in her fancy handwriting, with a fountain pen, on perfume-scented stationery, she danced around my room and read it to me. She sang it to my neighbor. She breathed it to my roommate when Angie got home. I was reciting it along with her by the end of the night. ller tongue relished every syllable, and she imagined Frankie reading those words on February 14th. 
Every Valentine's Day throughout junior and high school, I received roses and a balloon from a secret admirer. One year, Mr. Secret revealed himself with a letter that confessed he'd fostered a smoldering crush for five years. The admirer turned out to be a close friend who bore a striking resemblance to Donny Osmond. Although his romantic love was unrequited, I still have that letter. Whenever I find it, the feelings of flattery, embarrassment and excitement come back all over again. 
Over Christmas Break I discovered a Valentine in my father's glovebox that I'd written when I was about four years old. The red construction paper card has a pink heart on the front with "Happy Valentine's Day" written in careful script. The inside bears a simple "I Love You Daddy." My father has been keeping that card in his car ever since he found it a few years ago. He says it reminds him of his "little girl" while I'm away at college. 
Flowers, teddy bears, chocolate, jewelry and other tokens of love are nice symbols o love-but letters are more than a token. No llallmark card, song, or famous sonnet can say what only you can. If you want to tell someone you're in love, or just that you treasure a friendship, write a letter this weekend. Please don't join the "love stinks" club and resist giving someone an emotional squeeze. Your words will be kept and lingered over forever. 
Yourself is the greatest gift you can give. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News 

Systems Harry Zembillas Jen Habrych 
Michael O'Hara 

Viewpoint 
Allison Ebel
Sports 
Brian Kubicki Lab Tech 

John Bingham
Production Jeanne Blasi Business
Allison Ebel 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods_ The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved_ 
Forecast for noon, Friday, February 12
WEATHER REPORT 


FRONTS: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Philadelphia 52 33 Pf8SSUfe Rome 59 41 ,,~,~ Seattle 55 40
H L ~ En] 0 .. fx"xi 8 ~ !:) u 
South Bend 33 30 
FORECAST 

Winter weather advisory with snow likely and highs near 
30. Lows in 20s. Saturday cold and snow to continue with highs near 30. 
TEMPERATURES 

City  H  l  
Anchorage  36  25  
Atlanta  53  47  
Bogota  72  34  
Cairo  57  41  
Chicago  33  30  
Cleveland  33  32  
Dallas  47  40  
Detroit  30  27  
Indianapolis  39  34  
Jerusalem  43  36  
ILondon  41  36  
Los Angeles  65  49  
Madrid  57  39  
Minneapolis IMoscow  24 28  18 05  
)Nashville  52  49  
New York  44  39  
Paris  41  36  

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRES SNOW 
.•.-;::r.:.;.:~ .. • .. • 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Jackson reveals himself to Oprah
• LOS ANGELES -Michael Jackson allowed the public spotlight to briefly enter his private life, saying in a televised interview that he finds the comfort in children and animals that he missed in a friendless, workaholic childhood. His conversation with Oprah Winfrey on Wednesday was his first solo interview in nearly a decade, another sign that the 34­year-old pop star is emerging from his reclusiveness. He said he hoped that by confronting rumors about his personal life, his fans could focus on his art. Perhaps most startling was his revelation that he has an inherited disorder that causes skin pigmentation to fade. The revelation came after Winfrey asked him about a rumor that he bleaches his skin. Jackson admitted having a crush on singer Diana Ross and that he was dating actress Brooke Shields. But he dismissed a question about whether he was a virgin. 
Brennan. Marshall receive awards 
• WASHINGTON -Former Supreme Court Justices William Brennan Jr. and the late Thurgood Marshall, 
OF INTEREST 
• 
"Blue Collar Workers" Fireside Chat will be in the Notre Dame Room, second floor of LaFortune Student Center, from 12 to 1 p.m. Come discuss issues of different experiences, as Multicultural Executive Council completes the final Fireside Chat of the "Come Explore Culture" series. 

• 
Pray the rosary every Friday at 4:15p.m. in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Basilica. 

• 
Attention sophomores there are a small number of spaces still available for the upcoming Sophomore Sibling Weekend. Today is the last day to sign up. Friday's office house are from 2:15 to 4 p.m in 213 LaFortune Student Center. 

• 
Brother Bill and his gang friends visit this Sat­urday. Brother Bill Tomes and Brother Jim Fogarty who 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 11 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 252,672,371 +0. 79 to 246.72 S&P COMPOSITE +1.43 to 447.66 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS + 10.27 to 3,422.69

UNCHANGED 615 

GOLD 
-$1.20 to $332.20 
SILVER -$0.05 to $3.757 

ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Tokyo 46 36 1Washin ton, D.C.52 32 
two friends whose careers spanned the civil rights era, were honored Thursday for their contributions to a free press. The Freedom Forum, an international advocacy group for the cause of free speech and free press, conferred its Free Spirit Awards on the two jurists, an honor accompanied by grants of $100,000 each. "No Americans in the 20th Century did so much for human rights as they did," remarked former Chief Justice Warren Burger in a letter to the awards dinner. Marshall retired in 1991 after three decades on the court and died last month at the age of 84. Brennan retired in July 1990. 
Buttafuoco investigation reopened 
• MINEOLA, N.V. -Prosecutors reopened their investigation of Joey Buttafuoco after a former employee came forward to back Amy Fisher's claim that she and Buttafuoco had had an affair. A former employee of Buttafuoco's has come forward to say Buttafuoco boasted of an affair with Fisher in 1991, Edward Grilli, a spokesman for District Attorney Denis Dillon, said Wednesday. George Nessler, 34, who worked at Buttafuoco's auto body shop from 1989 to 1991, said that Buttafuoco confided that he'd had sex with the teen, according to a law enforcement source, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Dillon will decide in a few days whether to present the allegations to a grand jury. 
work in the housing projects in Chicago will bring young men who are gang members to the Center for Social Concerns for a discussion from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. This is open to anyone who is interested, especially Urban Plunge students. 
• 
Alumnus Jim Gabriel will give a piano recital on Sunday at 1:30 p.m. The recital will be in Annenberg Auditorium and admission is free. 

• 
Final Clues in the Knott Medallion Hunt; #4: If you're tired after staying up all night, rest at The Cradle of Notre Dame. If you are the one who finds it now, you'll be the winner of the game. #5: You're almost at the end, so stay pumped, though your hands may be dirty by now, find the place you've been looking for and wash your hands, so you can wipe the worry from your brow. (The Medallion was found earlier this week.) 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1554: Lady Jane Grey, who ruled England for nine days, was executed after being charged with treason. 

• 
In 1733: English colonists landed at Savannah, Ga. 

• 
In 1870: Women in the Utah Territory were granted the right to vote. 

• 
In 1892: President Lincoln's birthday was declared a national holiday. 

• 
In 1909: The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was founded. 

• 
In 1973: The first of the American prisoners of war from Vietnam were released. 

• 
In 1992: Bill Clinton released a letter he'd written in 1969 in which he said he gave up a draft deferment to "maintain my political viability." 



---~---­

Friday, February 12, 1993 The Observer page 3 


Survey shows ND freshman rate higher on issues of race 
Navy ROTC takes part in military competition 
By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
Ten members of Notre Dame's navy ROTC marine corps sacrificed Feb. 6 to participate in a military excellence competition at Penn State Uni­versity. 
All participating ND members are part of Team Irish, a club formed by navy midshipmen. Junior Karl Etzel said that this was the first competition as a team. 
The team completed a four by four hundred meter relay race, a five mile endurance course, a ten kilometer run. and the ma­rine corps PFT (Physical Fitness Test}. According to Etzel, the test is especially geared to-

Special to The Observer annual survey of college freshmen conducted by the 
The commitment to racial American Council on Education harmony exhibited by Univer­(ACE). sity of Notre Dame students is Fifty percent of Notre Dame's stronger than that of their peers first-year students responding nationwide, and it is on the to the survey said "helping to increase, accordin to the wards physical endurance. It was Notre Dame's first year to participate. 
Senior Andres Rodriguez and junior Chris Martino placed fifth and sixth in the ten kilo­meter race, respectively. 
Team Irish worked out three to four mornings a week and ran three to four miles each morning to train for these events, Etzel said. 
Other teams participating in­cluded Georgetown, Villanova, Carnegie-Mellon, and Penn State. Notre Dame had the smallest group. "We partici­pated for the competition and to represent our navy unit here at Notre Dame," said Etzel. 
The contest was held for the second consecutive year at Penn State. 

Violations of rights common in Brazil 
By LISA WOLTER News Writer 
Human rights violations are a common occurrence in Brazil due to a fear of individual rights and the "weakness of a justice system that serves the elites," said Teresa Caldeira of Universidade Estadual de Campinas in a lecture Thurs­day. 
Caldeira claimed that the state and media promote a vio­lent police force and brutal exe­cutions as opposed to the church and intellectuals who recognize fundamental human rights. 
The present situation in Brazil includes legitimate politi­cal rights, secure social rights, yet has always had "precarious" individual and civil rights due to an ineffective judiciary system, 
promote racial understanding" was an essential or very impor­tant goal, compared with 42 percent nationally. Both figures are substantially higher than the previous year -up 10 per­cent at Notre Dame and nine percent nationally. 
On the question of racial bias, 91 percent of the University's freshmen said discrimination remains a significant problem in the United States, compared with 85 percent nationally. Both figures are up compared to a year ago -by two percent at Notre Dame and five percent nationally. 
The results are based on re­sponses by 213,600 students at 404 colleges and universities, including more than 1,500 of Notre Dame's 1.879 freshmen. This is the 27th year of the ACE survey, which is conducted in conjunction with the Higher said Caldeira. She said that this disrespect for the elementary human rights is magnified by the Brazilian attitude towards evil and authority. 

There is a prevalent belief among Brazilians that evil is a powerful and contagious force that must be suppressed by au­thority figures in order for so­ciety to function correctly, said Caldeira. 
Brazilians believe this author­ity is found in the family, the church, the police and the jus­tice system and that it is when these institutions fail that criminal behavior emerges, Caldeira said. 
This emphasis on authorita­tive control has lead Brazilians to commit private acts of vengeance when these legal 
Education Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles. 
Other results of the survey indicate that 43 percent of Notre Dame freshmen said they engaged in political discussions, compared with 25 percent nationally and 40 percent of the University's previous freshmen class. 
In addition, the University's freshmen showed greater hands-on interest in the politi­cal process than students at other colleges and universities. Eleven percent said they worked on a campaign in 1992, compared with seven percent nationally. 
Politically Notre Dame stu­dents continued a decade-long trend of leaning farther right than their peers. Thirty-four percent described themselves as conservatives, compared 




:A~Jdfn
Fri: 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 Sat-Sun: 1:00, 3:00, 5:00, 7:00, 9:00 
$3.50 

Efnl~~~~7,~.r----­
f;\ 
Groundhog 
DaY. 
rn;:;l <!@'il COLUMBIArn ~... • '"'-""'"<"A'"""' ~IQJd.RJ.§ 
Fri: 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 Sat-Sun: 2:00, 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 
$1400 Scholarship for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
deedl;ne Feb. 12~ 
stop by the Center for Soct a 1 Concerns for 1nfo and ttpp11cttt1on 
efforts fail. This creates a "cycle of private revenge in which vio­lence is answered with more violence," she said. 
In Brazil, "To refer to the human rights activist is to pro­voke an image of a bad person," said Caldeira, because human rights are often viewed as "privileges for bandits." 
Although the judiciary system may be corrupt, many Brazil­ians prefer immediate execu­tion for criminals rather than a respect for their fundamental human rights and will advocate this judicial power, she said. 
Caldeira's lecture, "Crime and Individual Rights: Reframing the Question of Violence in Latin America," was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
with 20 percent overall, and 21 percent say they are liberal, compared with 26 percent na­tionally. 
Other observations from the survey include: 
•Notre 
Dame's strong aca­demic reputation was the main reason 95 percent of the stu­dents decided to attend. That's a two percent increase over last year. Eighty-seven percent said Notre Dame was their first choice for college, up three percent. 

•Eighty-eight 
percent of Notre Dame's freshmen engaged in some kind of community service while in high school. 

•Materialism 
had decreased in the freshmen class at Notre Dame: 60 percent said they decided to attend college to make more money, compared to 73 percent nationally. Both figures are down two points. 

•The 
most popular career fields for the University's first­year students are (in order) health care, engineering, busi­ness and law. 

•About 
38 percent favor in­creasing taxes to reduce the national deficit, up six points from last year. 

•Some 
90 percent believe the federal government should do more about environmental problems, but only 36 percent plan to become personally in­volved. 

•Only 
1.4 percent of the Notre Dame freshmen smoke, compared with 10.8 percent nationally. 

•Fourteen 
percent favor the legalization of marijuana, com­pared with 23 percent overall. 

•Raising 
a family is a priority with 81 percent of Notre Dame students, 11 points higher than the national figure. 





page 4 The Observer Friday, February 12,1993 


DeMars 
continued from page 1 

there is no such thing as a hu­manitarian action pursuing universal norms," he said. 
Market analysis, on the other hand, is a more accurate way of dealing with the complexities of the situation, he said. 
This alternative approach, according to DeMars, recog­nizes the fact that humanitarian organizations "are enmeshed in politics and have to negotiate with political forces in the area" in order to be effective. 
"Every humanitarian organi­zation which tries to take any kind of action in a war has to deal with at least one of the warring parties and get their permission," he said. This also applies to Somalia, Iraq, and the former Yugoslavia, he said. 
DeMars' approach also "takes into account the organization's mission," which may be gen­uinely altruistic, instead of au­tomatically associating it with ulterior political motives, he said. 
"The two basic concerns of every humanitarian issue are assistance and protection," he said. 
Assistance is "material aid, like food, which has to be physically transferred to the population," he said. Protec­tion, he said, is "any action which steadies the position of victims in relation to particular threats." 
Humanitarian organizations "can only offer protection through managing informa­tion," said DeMars. The dis­semination, discovery, and def­inition of information is critical, he said. 
DeMars focused specifically on the Ethiopian conflict in his application .of market analysis to humanitarian action. 
The Ethiopian war involves three groups, he said: the Ethiopian government, the Eritrea People's Liberation Front (EPLF), and the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF). DeMars' discussion of humanitarian action focused on the early 1980s. At this time, each of the factions controlled its own forces and territory, so "humanitarian organizations knew who they had to negotiate with," he said. 

There was "symmetry in the distribution of hunger, in that each of the three adversaries sought and received humani­tarian assistance," he said. 
However, there was "asymmetry in the distribution of abuses," in that "the vast majority were committed by the government, while very few were committed by the rebels," he said. 
DeMars discussed two specific organizations, War on Want (WOW) and Oxfam, which were involved with humanitarian action during the war. Both were British groups involved in cross-border operations aimed at assisting the Eritrean Relief Association (ERA). he said. 
War on Want (WOW) con­tributed relief and assistance "only to the rebels, not to the government," according to DeMars. It ""publicly debated about human rights," criticizing the government for its abuses and supporting the EPLF, he said. . 
Oxfam, on the other hand, of­fered "assistance programs on both sides," but didn't publicly admit its involvement with the cross-border operations be­cause it was afraid of being ousted by the government, he said. 
DeMars is a visiting fellow and a doctoral candidate in government, in a lecture yes­terday at the llesburgh Center. 
DeMars' lecture was spon­sored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 

Parietals 
continued from page "1 

amendment becomes a per­
manent one. 

"Students need to act respon­sibly and realize that they had a part in bringing it about and realize that they are the ones that need to act to keep the policy in effect," said Murray. 
Resident Adviser Carrie Piercy said that the policy will be a success if students utilize this new independence in a re­sponsible manner. 
"We all have to watch out for our own safety and security with the change," Piercy said. "If we all work together I think it will work great." 
Student reaction to the policy change was positive, with most students indicating that they believe that it is a beneficial move for the administration to let students remain in ultimate control of their actions. 
"It's about time the adminis­tration realizes that we can handle it," said Cyndi Herman, a Holy Cross sophomore. "I feel like my parents are in the lobby." 
IIerman said that she is glad that the administration has fi­nally acted in a responsive 
TakeShoney,S




Combo 


PickThree For $5.99 
D Grilled 5callop;  D Fried Scallop;  
0 Grilled Shrimp  D Fried Shrimp  
D GrilledFish  D Fried Fish  

(Hint:ThereAre No Wrong Answers.) 
Deciding which to have won't be easy. Will it be the grilled scallops, the fried fish and the grilled shrimp? Or the grilled fish, the fried shrimp and the fried scallops? If you can't decide, don't worry-they're all great and cooked to be moist and tender. And served with Potato, Bread and the 
All-You-Care-To-Eat Soup, Salad and SHONE~~ 
Frull Bar, no matter what you get, you'll be a winner. Offer arallable lor ahnmed nme at paruCipJttng Shone)'S Sea£()()({ GJrnbo 
Seafood Bar Fri.-Sat. Starting At 5 P.M. 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
manner to on-campus student concerns. 
"It makes me happier that they finally think we are re­sponsible enough. We're 20 years old, its time for us to start making choices on our own," she said. 
Augusta Hall, which is re­stricted to juniors and seniors, and McCandless Hall currently do not require males to leave identification, but according to freshman McCandless resident Ann Lawrence, the change is still a change in the right direc­tion. 
Lawrence, who is considering a move to Le Mans Hall next year, is welcoming the change that will allow her the same freedom she has this year in all residence halls, but as a freshman she wants to ensure that this is a policy that will re­main with her all four years. 
"I would urge students to use it (the new policy) wisely since it is only on a trial basis," she said. 
Currently RHA is working on a letter to inform all students of the change. They are also working with Residence Life in implementing the policy. 

Hall Directors of all residence halls will meet with each sec­tion or floor in the coming week and with the Hall Night Assistants to inform everyone of the new procedure, according to Fordham. 
Since its institution on cam­pus last year, RHA has been working to amend the parietals policy and other projects to im­prove campus residence life. Last December an RIIA pro­posal to lengthen parietal hours on campus was approved by the College's Senior Officers. 

?f@(j}!fi jj}~~?JJ I!:IJ!t10 §J7f~ f§!lj[ffl(@J[bf1[[f}) 
cg(@)[§!jj?f~§J?f 
LJ4. 5 h,·-. 1fo/l 
H~ 1/ I 


! ~ /'1 
v..) ~ <;,h · -I 
/-J, 1i 

Saturday, February 13th 8:00 PM 
Band BOVINE SOLLTTION starts at 7:30 PM 
Ticl<ets $3.00 
Avail£1ble at the L£1Fortune Infonnation l)csk 
A II JJrocceti s (/011t1 fe(/ t() 

The l~o/~t71l Cent-er 
Friday, February 12, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Putz: Mary appears as reminder of God's power 
By BRIAN SEILER News Writer 
The Virgin Mary appeared to Saint Bernadette to encourage separation of Church and State and to warn the increasingly technological world that God is still in charge, said Louis Putz in a lecture entitled, "The Mes­sage of Our Lady of Lourdes" Thursday. 
Mary appeared at Lourdes, France, in 1858 to proclaim that God is still active in the world, Putz said. 

Putz said that the separation of church and state, Mary's main message, has been almost completely fulfilled with the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe. The problem of a "Godless scientific world," which denies the need for God, still remains a problem, Putz said. 
The purpose of the 18 offi­cially recognized visits of Mary to Lourdes in the world today is to provide a common place for people of all nations to convene 
Corner of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (BOO) 837-1981 
for prayer, healing, song and celebration of God's healing power, according to Putz. "We have had a 'United Nations' at Lourdes since 1858," he said. 
Lourdes is renowned for its healing powers, Putz said. Although only a handful of the supposed healings have been scientifically appraised as "miracles," millions of people continue to visit Lourdes every year. "Most of the people who go to Lourdes come back ac­cepting their sickness. This is the real miracle," said Putz. 

Still, with all the diseased people bathing in water, which is changed only once a day, Putz said that no major problem has arisen with the transmission of disease. He said that this is "a total denial of what the scientific world would call unhealthy." 
Notre Dame students should strive to promote peace and justice throughout the world, since Notre Dame's grotto is modeled after the one at Lour­des, said Putz. 
There's one way to .. come out ahead of the pack••• 



QUIT 

The American Heart Association 
=171/EVIRSnY S/IIIP 
Hair Designers 

Say you saw us in The Observer 
Haircut $6.00 
with Student 1.0. 
277--0057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 

... HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY CASEY! (STILL THE BEAST) 
LOVE, 
MOM, DAD, JERRI, 
JOY, 
NANCY, HEIDI &KRIS 
1: .. 


•.~t lk• "H~'I ,\.\V".\~.1_ 
•., ..... ,1.••1"'t!'""'·


------·-I 
SECURITY BEAT 
Af;!oward !ian resident of her sweatShirt !rom tiW lnCVsfllng.Ha!L 
.. THURS.• FEB.11 

ST.IDIARD'S 
II A L L F 0 H C :II 

ANGELA BORELLI 
ASSISTANT PROFESSIONAL SPECIALIST 
IRIS OUTLAW 
DIRECTOR, MINORITY AFFAIRS 
ROLAND SMITH 
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT 
SPEAK ON 

"DOES RACISM EXIST AT NOTRE DAME?" 
Tuesday, February 16 7:00P.M. at St. Edward's Hall 


------------------------·--·-·---------­
page 6 The Observer Friday, February 12, 1993 
I need 4 GAs and/or 2 studenttix for 7-Was that caramel or Professional Partiers x4301 or Kentucky -Brian x 1 069 THIS FEBRUARY 14th ... butterscotch? Hey I Are you tired of the same old x4322 
Surprise Her with a Rose and a 6-Have you ever tried to pick up a parties? Try Katie and Colleen The 
Class 
continued from page 1 0 
2Br. Apts. Newly Remodeled Walking distance to NO $300/mth. Call 232-8256 
NO Apts. Completely Remodeled walking distance to NO Call for info. 232-8256 
4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. 
GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL MONICA 232-2794. 
FOR SALE 
Women's light weight 26 in. Schwinn bike. 1 Ospeed, red, like new. $135, call 234-7035. 
SEPARATE STEREO COMPONENTS: AMP., TUNER, TAPE DECK AND EQUILIZER(good condition) $150.00 CALL271 1443 


TICKETS 
Need Kentucky Tix 2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud. Call Ryan X3596 
MY BEST FRIEND FROM MARQUETIE IS COMING FOR THE GAME AND I DESPERATELY NEED TICKETSIII HELP MElli CALL LAURA X4-2999 
NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS MARY X2862 
Need 1 or 2 GA/Stud Kentucky Tix. 2711514 or 1-8575 
I NEED UK TIX MATI X 1374 
Desperately seeking up to 4 GAs for the Marquette game. Please call Beth at x2914. 

I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR KENTUCKY GAME! CALL MEG -X3884 
Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. Will pay $$$. Call (708)835-2208 
'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'' 
I need 2 tickets for the NO-Kentucky Basketball game. 
Please call Cameron at 634­1723 ..... . 
&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'& 
NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY 800-777-0675 EXT 275 
I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS FOR THE MARQUETIE GAME!lllll Please call Chris or Mike x1117 
Joel, get off the babysitter. I say this to you because it'll be Risky Business if you don't sell Skip tix for the Kentucky WildCATASTROPHE on Feb. 13. It's in your best interest (broken arms) to call Skip at x2052 and make a deal or leave a message. 
I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA CALL MATI AT x1741 
HELP! I'm desperate for Kentucky tickets! Call Chris at x1073 

PERSONAL 
SMC & NO Summer Programs­London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284-4460(office). 272-3726(home). 
'"SPRING BREAK"' 7 nights Beachfront in Panama City Beach, FL. 
Discount ID card included Prices start at $109. Hotels filling up so don't delay. Call James @289-2683 '"SPRING BREAK"' 


HEY, FRESHMEN! 
Do You Have the Write Stuff! Have You a Point of View? 
Your Freshman Year magazine, Showcase '96, needs: 
Writers of Prose & Poetry Graphics Artists Copy Editors 
for info or to submit articles, 
call: Chris x 4-4927 or Lara x 4-4813
*"Be my Valentine."(f( 
., Frt"nCh v,~ndl• • C•lt A.u l...o~11 " Amat't'tto Llwno«"•~ • Almond Anurrito WAppW Nut • &n.~~N Nut • Apple l"w Chtntnk.to • S.NNbeny ., Appl~t l'w • Ill~ • S.n~~n.u N' Cram w ~ N" Crwm • Btnybrrry • Blut"bm'y • INu.rry Chton«J!Uo • C•le Amamto • Cal~ VwnN • CMn«•b • ChoC'oU~ • ChomYIC' Candy C1rw • Chocolltt COWftd Ch«ry • ChcxoUIC' Covm'd Ch«ry Ctwnrnkt • Chocolllf' Cu~ Sttlwbrrry • Ckoco&.tr MIN e 0-'c WNtr Chocol.att w Ea;q • <Annan Chocolak Cake-a La ~ • Grrm.n Chucu&.h.· Cherl«ak.r f t..mon Cust.&rd • L.emonbrny • L..rmon C'hen«::IU • Luntb.rry • Ltm~ C01.*" • Mocha • Moclw Mini • NHpohun • New C>rt.Nina ChocoUtr • f"Nch • rt:achbrrry • ~--h Ownrtok • ~actws N' Crum • rHnUI BuHn • rranul Bultrr Fud-r • rtpptrmlnt • I'HRUI Buun N" Jrilr • Prabnn N' Cl'l'am • l"'umpldn PW • rumpl.•n rw-a Ia Mudr • ftaspbrn"y a..nccak.r • ltuphrny Fud&~ • R.t~pbtrry TNfBr • Slrawbft-nn N' Crto•m • Scr•~ry c:Nn«ak.r • Sttaw~ TNfflto • Tropcal Twltt • SUGA.It FREE NONFAT • C"hocol.al~ • Vo~n1lla • Swirl • NONFAT • a..nana • a.Mnabf.try • S..n.in.t Ca&acb • &tnana~ N" CrNm • ILin.an.l Nul • llftrln N' c,..,.m • llftTybftTy • Chocolalr • Choco&.k' Cowred Str•"'·bttry • (off~ • Grrm~n Chorola..-Cab • R..tpbrn')' FudKf • Slrb•tk'f"fy • Stuwbtrry Col.ld• • Troptcal TwiSI • <Arnun Chocolllr Cab a 1.a MoJt • K~ Lunt • l..Jrntb...'n")' • U~C~ • N~..pulit.1n • NIII'W OriNn~ Chucoa.t..-• r«an 
fli~:Y~~~-£~~ "·~;.:~:~~~:: ·A;;d-g;t-----~ 

Iyour Valentine. · yours FREE! I 
I I I I I I can't Believe Dfa I
! Buy any medium or large Yogyrt! l ,cup of frozen yogurt and get eam • l 
I h f f pusShops I 
I anot er rozen yogurt 0 1837 South Bend Avenue 1 
1 271-9540 I 
:equal or lesser value FREE. ' 
I exrires l/19/93 ~ 
l Remember to Take Your Valentine a Pie! : 
L------------------------------------~ 
01110. ICanl a.... l"a Yogurt lid 
Song delivered by a Glee Club 
Quartet ... 
Surprise Her anywhere in the U.S. with a Love song delivered by phone ... 
THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB SINGING VALENTINES 
On-campus delivery to ND/SMC .. .$5 Phone delivery to Anywhere, U.S.A. ...$3 
On sale in the North and South Dining Halls on Thursday, Friday and Saturday
. 
SERENADE YOUR SWEETHEART! 
$100 FOR A STUDENT DRIVING TO FLORIDA IN NEXT 60 DAYS. WOULD REQUIRE PICKING UP A XEROX COPIER AND DELIVERING IT TO SARASOTA, FLORIDA. CALL 264-9508 AND ASK FOR JULIE. 
ADOPTION: Were you 
overwhelmed when you found out 
you were pregnant? We were 
overwhelmed when we found out 
we couldn't have children. We're a Catholic nurse/doctor couple happily married for 9 years. If you want your baby to grow up with patient, loving parents, a large extended family, & two very sweet dogs, please call Mary and Michael 1-800-759-6039. 
SOUTH PADRE -BEACHFRONT Radisson Resort Wet suit contests, parties, sleeps 6-8 & Marco Island, FL House -near Keys $750 week 813-642-5483 
TOP TEN PONDEROSA QUOTES FROM THE OBNOXIOUS 4 10-What?! 
9-lt's probably a travel alarm clock 
cucumber?! 5-Did you read Loins of Fire? 4-Where's the guy who takes his 
pants off? 3-You need a lot more help than 
AAA batteries, Karen 2-0ur mints are all greazy! 1-Was it xtra smooth or rough-or 
can't your tongue tell the difference? 
TOP 10 WEDDING QUOTES 
1 0-Jason, would you get us drinks? 9-My kabob is so phallic 8-Beth, do you have to pee? 7-Why did I get a towel? 6-lt's the Bunny Hop-we're gonna 
die I 5-What's the hokey-pokey? 4-ls he gonna take his pants off or 
not? 3-He's not getting the garter back 2-That guy's calling me Mr Canada 1-Troy says the bow is very 
functional 
CONGRATS BETH AND DERRICK! 2-6-93 

Professional Partiers! x4301 or x4322 
Liebe Bonner Valentine, 
Wolke nummer 9 haute Abend ? Und bitte sei nicht spat, aile sind TOTAL neidisch. lch hab' dich lieb. 1punkte?, noch 21-Grosses Geheimnis 93 
We have an awesome hotel room in Daytona for Spring Break, but we need 2 more girls to go in with us. Only $130 for the week+ gas$. Call Nicole or Michelle x4530. 
"'AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. 
Attention! All party hosts: Do you need a guarantee for a successful party? Call Katie and Colleen the 
MATI (desperate for a personal) CANNIZZO 
Dr. Martin is KEY 
(you'd probably disagree ... .... as ususal) 
MATI (desperate for a personal) CANNIZZO 
Dr. Martin is KEY 
(you'd probably disagree ... .... as ususal) 

Happy 21st, Betty I Or is that 22nd? Have a capital day, cutie. Luv ya, AMK 




To Julie Bug 
¥Happy Valentine ,s Day¥ 
We are so proud of you Miss & Love you, Mom &Dad 
8-lamnmalar,c;ke~y~\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~ 
ATIENTION ALL PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS! 
Positions for all Pre-Law Society Officers must be filled for the 1993-94 school year. Any interested member should pick up an application in the Pre-Law office at 104 O'Shaughnessy. All applications should be submitted by February 26. 
Invitation: 
Come and talk with young men from 
Cabrini Green and Henry Homer 
Housing Projects 
in Chicago 
Saturday 2/13 (after the Kentucky game) 
4:30 -5:30 pm 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
These men speak candidly about their experience as gang members 


Business 

Friday, February 12, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

Few concerns about GM gas tanks 
•DETROIT-As 
General Motors Corp. scrambles to protect its reputation, the company may be having some f:i:Uccess. with customers. In random interviews from around t}l(;l countcy. au~o dealers and individuals trying to S(illl GM pic}(up$ report few questions from prospective customers about the gasoline t$;nks ; that have caused such a publicity ruckw;: There.arenearly S.·. million 1973 to 1987 full-size GM pickups on the road in North America with gasoline tanks in eachside ofthe truck. Critics say the design makes the gas tanks vulnerable t? fiery explosi()ps !fl side collisions. GM has denied these trucks are unsafe, but ithas changed the design in newer models. Most. dealers t . . ned Wednesday and Thursday said the controversy hasn•t cted sales. For GM, the public's confidencein its vehicles is crucial. 

•wASHINGTON 
-American Telephone & Telegr seeking damages from three rival long distance com says violated the law by making secret deals with.customel'.S, AT&T says it is required to tell the Federal <:;ommunie~ti(lns Commission more about its contracts than are competitors MCl, Sprint and other companies. MCI, SprinLand WilTel, a .third> company named in the suit, said ih separate respoiises that AT&T was just bitter about losing custotners to them. The battle is over business customers who make individual contraetsworth millions of dollars for long distance serviC~ tailor~d. to their particular needs. The U.S. Circuit Court of AppealS here ruled last NQvember that aU long distance COll1Pfni~sprovJ~i.;r\g interstate service must file information about thOse contracts ·. with the FCC. 


•WASHINGTO -The Justice D~p<l.l'tmQnt ch ......• Inc., one of the nation's largest milk suppners, an er m.ilk' company Thursday with conspiring to rigbidsip thesatJe d~nP,lk· •. to public schools. The charges came one. day after ~e jndictm t in North Carolina of a third dairy company for. aile · . 
conspiring to rig bids for dairy produQts i~ tllat state's. J;l~~i~ schools. Justice Department spokeswoman Gina Talamona said the charges were not related except as part of the department~s nationwide crackdown on conspiracies involvirig dairy products for public institutions. "We estimate that the cost to ctn1sumers could be in the hundreds of millions of dollars,"! said Talamona.... "It's beep a widesp,read ipve$tigation, c~ossi,n,g ~agy s1;;lte~,; 
Ee,~~c:tW!G¥82~n~;~r:!!J~~~rY~~~Pe.· ..cbristmas. n:;:~' spirit into the new year and the job mar~et ~mprov~? lat~ .Jn.•.. January, the government said Thursday, adding to a strhig of good-news economic reports. Retail sales rose 0.3 pel'centt() a seasonally adjusted $167.4 billion. the Commerce Department· said. Department store and auto sales sMwed partieul~r strength. Sales from November to December were 7.2 p~reep.t. higher than a year earlier. Meanwhile, the Labor Depal'tmE:~nt said the number of Americans filing.first•tirhe claims for jobless benefits fell by 12,000 to 340,000 during the we{lk ended J&,n. 
m • 
Sign Shop open for any occasion 
By JASON WILLIAMS 
Business Writer 
Although billboards and neon beer signs are not available from Student Activities' Sign Shop, personalized banners and buttons can be designed by students for any purpose or oc­casion, according to Mary Edgington, assistant director of student activities. 
The Sign Shop uses 'butcher block' paper, a banner-type paper which bears wear and tear better than ordinary paper, to make signs of all shapes and sizes. said Edgington. "'Butcher block' is a thicker, more durable type of paper," she said. "It definitely lasts longer than regular paper and we've got all kinds of colors." 
Sign Shop artists use twelve different colors of "Texas Markers," drip-free markers with two-inch tips which can make both narrow and wide lettering. Edgington said that if students have an image which goes beyond the artists concep­tion, they can grab the pen themselves and let their imagi­nations run wild. 

"Actually we only charge 25 cents per foot of paper if the student wants to do the design­ing," she said. "We charge 50 cents per foot if they have an artist do the design." Personal­ized buttons are sold for 50 cents a piece, but Edgington said they would consider reduc­ing the price if someone put in a bulk order. 
The two-inch buttons are ini­tially designed on special paper in the Copy Shop in LaFortune. Copies of the image are then made while the finishing touches are done in Stepan Center. 
The Sign Shop opened for business in early November, and Edgington says business has been slow so far. However, she hopes that business will be on the upswing as students re­alize that signs and buttons are an inexpensive, available medium. 
"Not many, students have heard about us," Edgington said. "Hopefully students will realize what a good deal it is when they see the quality of our products." 
The Sign Shop is a student­run business backed by the of­fice of Student Activities. Their office hours at Stepan Center are from 6 pm to 11 pm Mon­day through Friday, 9 am to 11 pm on Saturday and noon to 11 pm on Sunday. Students can also place orders in the Student Activities office located in LaFortune. 
Clinton asks for Uruguay round extension 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Clinton administration today announced that it will ask Congress for the authority to extend the deadline for nego­tiating a sweeping world trade agreement. 
The decision was announced by U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor following a two­hour meeting with the top trade negotiator of the 12-nation European Community, Leon Brittan. 
The action was the first word from the new administration on how it planned to deal with what had been the Bush ad­ministration's major trade ini­tiative, an effort to rewrite the rules of world trade under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
These talks, known as the Uruguay round for the nation where they began in 1986, have been stalled for more than two years. 
Hopes were raised last year that the discussions could be concluded before President Bush left office, after Europe and the United States resolved 

a longstanding dispute regard­
ing farm subsidies. 

However, the farm agreement 
began to unravel because of 
strong opposition from France 
and the last minute effort to 
conclude the Uruguay round 
went nowhere. 

The new administration had faced a deadline of March 2 for completing the Uruguay talks · and notifying Congress of that 
fact. 

But with Kantor's an­nouncement today, the admin­istration signaled that it was not interested in rushing through a package that basically had been completed by the Bush administration but instead wanted more time to put its own stamp on any final agreement. 
U.S. negotiating authority for the Uruguay round had already been given one two-year exten­sion. Kantor, however, refused to say what length of extension the administration would seek. He said that decision would not be made before consulting Congress. 
For his part, Brittan said the European Community wel­comed the administration's decision to go forward with the GATT talks but he said he hoped the president would de­cide on a negotiating extension that would be far shorter than two years. 
Otherwise, Brittan said, the talks would run the risk of los­ing momentum and becoming hopelessly stalled. 
The discussions between Brittan and Kantor were being held at a time of heightened trade tensions between the United State~? and the European Community. 
Just since taking office, the new administration has taken actions to boost sharply the tax on shipments of steel from Eu­rope and other countries to the United states and has threat­ened to bar European compa­nies fro~ bidding on federal contracts. 
Both Kantor and Brittan said they had discussed these trade disputes during their talk but gave no indication of any progress in narrowing the dif­ferences. 

GM, Ford, and Chrysler suffer $30 billion shortfall for 1992 
DETROIT (AP) -General Mo­tors Corp. made business his­tory Thursday, reporting a record $23.5 billion loss for 1992. But beneath the stagger­ing number were some en­couraging signs of financial turnaround. 
One-time accounting changes for current and future retiree health care made up $22.2 bil­lion of the loss, and other one­time hits drained another $1.53 billion during the year. 
For 1991, GM lost $4.45 bil­lion, or $7.97 a share, an American corporate record at the time. 
GM's numbing loss plus a $7.4 billion loss at Ford Motor Co. and a $723 million profit at Chrysler Corp. gave the Big Three automakers a combined shortfall of $30.2 billion, most of it in accounting changes. Chrysler did not take its retiree health care charges in 1992. 
GM's 1992 worldwide sales totaled $132.4 billion, up 7.6 percent from $123 billion the year before. The automaker 

Big Three earnings 
Quarterly net earnings including one-tirne gains and losses. 

General Motors 
In millions

$1,000 
500 
-500 
-1.000 .. 
-1.500 . 
-2.000 .. 
·2,500 ..........., ..., ... 
-3,000 """"mill """"""""1 1992 f" 
Source: Company reports 
sold 7.45 million cars and trucks, up 1. 9 percent from 
7.02 million in 1991. 
The massive shortfall, a record for corporate America, amounted to $38.28 a share. The accounting charge did not affect GM cash flow, which im­proved dramatically in 1992 because of the proceeds from selling new stock. But it de­pleted the company's net worth to $6.22 billion, from $27.32 billion. 

"What does it mean? I think primarily from a respect of how we run the business, with re­spect to the dividend, {and) the financial solidity of the com­pany, it doesn't mean anything," Chief Financial Officer Richard Wagoner told reporters at GM headquarters. 

.Chrysler. 
~ In millions ~· 
$400 ································· ............ . 
300 
. 

200 
. 


100 

o..:_~~__..__..-J._.___ 
-100 
-200 
-300 

-400 n»unl1991 I " " """"""l1992lu 
AP/Carl Fox 
The company's performance in North America "was heavily influenced by continued low in­dustry sales, excess capacity and competitive pressures, which resulted in a persistent high level of sales incentives," GM Chief Executive Jack Smith said in a statement. 
GM's aggressive downsizing resulted in 28,000 salaried and hourly jobs being shed during the year. Plans to close at least 21 p}ants by mid-decade also were firmed, and several au­tomotive supply businesses were put up for sale. 
Analysts were told GM was losing about $1 billion in North America through the first three quarters, but that shortfall rose to $1.5 billion in the final quar­ter because the company paid for early retirement programs for salaried workers and set aside an undisclosed amount for car and truck warranty re­pairs. 
"We basically took some charges in the fourth quarter to go into '93 in an appropriate basis and go out of '92 with what we thought was a conser­vative footing," Wagoner said. 
GM can still meet its goal of breaking even in North America this year before interest ex­penses, .taxes and retiree health care charges are included, he said. · 





Viewpoint 

page 8 Friday, February 12, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ... Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majonty of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631·4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631 -4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631·5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631·4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Saint Mary's students respond to Keenan Revue 
Chill out, our school was 'not the only subject of ridicule' 
Dear Editor: comments made just towards 
I am writing in response to Saint Mary's College. Dwelling the Feb. 9, 1993 article con­on these petty issues does not cerning the Saint Mary's College contribute positively to Saint open forum. I do not agree with Mary's/Notre Dame relations. the negative comments made Instead we should recognize about the Keenan Revue in the positive aspects, such as the regards to the SMC bashing. distribution of tickets on SMC's James Malloy, Keenan Hall As­campus. the holding of the Re­sistant Hector, clearly states the vue in O'Laughlin Auditorium, intentions of the Hevue in his and the opportunity to have the disdaimer. "Instead of skits that two campuses together for a perpetuate stereotypes, we social event. want skits that point out the I have great pride in Saint vast number of stereotypes Mary's College and in what it there are in this community, so represents. But I feel it is im­that we may realize how ridicu­portant to have the ability to lous they are." laugh at ourselves, and I be­
Saint Mary's College was not lieve that as a community we the only object of ridicule; the need to be more positive. majority of dorms at Notre Dame were also targeted. We cannot eontinue to magnify the Dear Editor: and female dormitories at Notre little less seriously." 
The ticket was bought, 
Dame were criticized also. After After reading the artiele enti­speaking with a member of the As I looked throughout the tled "Saint Mary's holds forum Keenan Revue, he clarified that audience, mainly of students all 

the comedy was delivered 
to discuss eampus issues", the stereotypes portrayed in the who were enjoying themselves, printed on the front page of The Keenan Revue are not new this the majority took nothing toDear Editor: understand how some jokes in Observer Feb. 9,1993, I was year, but continuously reeycled heart. The show was eomieal,I was perturbed beyond belief the Keenan Hevue may have eompelled to write. The two year after year. entertaining, and just plain fun. 
about the article in Tuesday's been taken too far, but that was 
paragraphs on the Keenan

Observer diseussing Saint to be expeeted. Most people 
Hevue were what eoneerned What concerns me is that I would hope in the future,Mary's campus issues. One is­should have known what the me. people cannot take these skits people would not eonsider sue diseussed that eaught my Keenan Revue was about when 
Although, I was not at the injest. Nowhere in this pro­something as jovial as the 
eye was thP. staging of the they pieked up their tiekets. 
open forum to diseuss this, I did gram were the actors trying to Keenan Hevue as an attack onKeenan Hevue. I think it is a I am truly bitter about this attend the Keenan Revue. malieiously attaek anyone. In their eharaeter or institution,travesty how Melissa Whelan whole ordeal. The stereotypes Initially, I too was surprised by the Keenan Hall Enquirer, the but as a buneh of eollege stu­and othP.r Saint Mary's students of the Saint Mary's and Notre the eriticism towards Saint newspaper eaeh person re­dents performing eomedy. 
reaeted to the Keenan Hevue. Dame women have been going Mary's students. eeived at the performanees,The whole "bashing" incident on for years and will eontinue. 
was a letter by James Malloy, Katie Gibbs was a joke. Even the Notre My advice !'or all you overreaet­After watching the whole Re­the Keenan Hall Assistant Hee­Regina HallDame women's dorms were eut ing "SMC chieks" is don't take vue, I realized Saint Mary's tor. He makes a plea to take the Feb.9,1993
down. everything so seriously. 
students were not the only following consideration while
I deteet some immaturity on Sarah Folstrom 
people subjeet to ridieule. watching the Revue: "Maybe we
the eampus of Saint Mary's. Le Mans Hall 
Members of the Administration, all need to laugh at ourselves aSome people need to learn how Feb.9,1993 
sports figures, and both male little more to take ourselves a to eope with a little humor. I 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

HO«J's YCVI< PRETTY OIS7RI8f.ITICW SIMPle, 
5Y5Tt:M «D?K., RCAUY... 
t:i:FNI3U-? I 
\ 

/AJORP'S 60mN A/((}()NIJ, 50 PfOPI£ JUST CAU M/3 WH13N TH&Y ~ART 7H81R CJICMJ­
THeRAPY... 
8V&RY FRJ~Y N16HT, I MAK&A YEAH, /A/HAT

FRe5H MTCH cr8R(X,{)NteS, C1JT /lO YOUW-UM... lH&M UF; WRAP 7HEM AND 
Uf.AV/3 '!311 "t;JO'HY·~
/?U/Vt:R 7Ht:M 7V AIOS IN 7Hl3 WI • PAT!IW75 IN TH&/1<.. 
WJVf!I{J.AY? \
()(AJN HOM&5. 
\ I 

'Nothing takes the fun out of something more than learning how to do it right.' 
Mark Wegner 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. NIJ, IN 46556 

VALENTINE•s DAY SUPPLEMENT TO THE OBSERVER 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 1987 Notre Dame graduates Vincent Scotto and Vicki Proud were married at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart last Saturday morning. 
Going to the chapel 
There's little room tor error when planning aSacred Heart wedding 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN the Basilica, the Crypt or the reserve a .spot as well as were here on campus, they phones, she's the only one actu­Accent Editor Log Chapel on non-football through phone calls. went to a lot of the services in ally taking wedding reserva­
Saturdays during four time "I got to work at about 7 a.m. the Basilica and really enjoyed tions. Time only permits her to 
It's more than something old, slots: 9:30 a.m., 11 a.m., 1 p.m. to do set-ups," she said. "When them. It became like their own get limited information-the something new, something bor­and 3 p.m. The reservation fee I got here, there were bodies all parish," Hoyt said. date, time and names of the rowed and something blue. It's is $200. over where people had camped The first day for the next bride and groom. way beyond champagne toasts, Although rumors say that Sa­out. They even brought sleeping year's reservations is always In the next few days, Hoyt garter belts and tuxedos. cred Heart's wedding reserva­bags and coolers. By 9 or 10 crazy, according to Hoyt. In creates a file folder for each 
It's a matter of watching the tion schedule is filled up for a.m. we already had people fact, last year 7 5 wedding wedding party and sends out an clock and following the rules­years in advance, schedules are lined up to the Administration reservations were made in the information packet including and if you don't, you'lllose out. actually open one year at a building. first two days. Because of the wedding day regulations, ideas 
Just ask Sandy Hoyt, the Sa­
time. The 1993 schedule was "But that was the end of large influx of interested for the ceremony and all dio­cred Heart Parish secretary for filled a few weeks ago, and that-it was a fiasco. We just couples, usually the first 10 to cese-required documents for the past 13 years, whose hectic 1994 time slots will open on never thought in our wildest 20 people are able to get the couple to complete. job includes taking reservations March 2. dreams that anybody would exactly what they want, and the Six to eight weeks prior to a for couples interested in getting No waiting lists are available want to camp out. It was kind of most popular times are spring, wedding, Hoyt sends the bride married at Notre Dame. and couples can reserve a wed­overwhelming." summer and fall, Hoyt said. and groom a note reminding 
"I try to explain to them that ding time by calling the parish The official rules say that only "They need to be open­them of any documents to be I'm on a timetable. Usually ev­office between 8 a.m. and noon, Notre Dame students, alumni, minded and have two or three returned to the parish office. erybody is very patient and un­and 1 to 4 p.m., according to faculty and administrators, in dates and times that could Then the wedding enters the derstanding. But they have to Hoyt. additio~ to already registered work," she said. "The odds are next phase, where timing is be realistic-they may not get But reservations weren't al­parishioners, are allowed to be greater if you have more more important than ever. their first choice," she said. ways done by phone. married in the Basilica. Either options." 
Because it's such a popular In fact, Hoyt remembers what the bride or groom must be Hoyt has to work quickly on The Basilica's two wedding wedding location, the Basilica happened two years ago when Catholic. that first reservation-making coordinators, Donna Kelly and staff runs a tight ship. the Basilica decided to allow "Many alumni want to get day. While someone helps her John Sobieralski, alternate or­Weddings can only take place at people to come into the office to married here because they answer the constantly ringing see WEDDING /page 3 
ACCENT VALENTINE·s DAY SUPPLEMENT 

Friday, February 12, 1993
page 2 

Couples enjoy weddings at Sacred Heart despite time constraints 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN Accent Editor 
A wedding is a pretty big deal. 
But for some. a wedding at the Basilica of the Sacred Iteart is an even bigger deal. Couples with ties to Notre Dame especially grab the chance to get married at the University­although it does require a little extra effort. 
In fact, Paul Massaro's family even chartered a bus to trans­port ·his family for the five hour drive from his hometown New­castle, Penn. to South Bend for his big day. 
"The wedding was almost an attraction because a lot of my family hadn't been to Notre Dame and they wanted to see it," explained Paul, a 1990 NO graduate. 
Paul and Brigid Welch '91, were married at Sacred Heart on Nov. 23. 1991, and say that choosing a location for their wedding was never a question for them. "We knew we wanted to get married at Sacred Heart-thtlre was no doubt about it," Paul said. 
Brigid, originally from Con­necticut. agreed. "We met at Notre Dame. so it was kind of symbolic that we got married there. It was kind of a dream since I started college," she said. 
That dream came true when she met Paul. They began dat­ing, fell in love, and were en­gaged in August of 1990, the beginning of Brigid's senior year. 
"I literally went in (to Sacred Heart) the day after I got en­gaged," Brigid said. "There were about three time slots left for 1991 and I just kind of grabbed one." 

While she had her heart set 
on a October wedding, the 
Basilica's almost-full calendar 
forced them to settle for 
November. "You've got to be 
flexible." she said. 
"You have to mold your wed­ding to fit their schedule." Paul added. 
And they did. 
(While Paul had graduated and was working in Fort Wayne, Ind., Brigid made wedding plans during her senior year at Notre Dame as florists, photographers and limousine companies were only a quick car ride or local phone call away.) 
They designed their wedding to work around the Basilica's strict regulations about wedding day timing. "We chose things that were simple and easy." Brigid said, explaining that they decided to hold their reception in the Monogram Room of the JACC, with catering from the University. 
While keeping a close eye on the clock is of utmost impor­tance, Paul and Brigid never felt like they were forced to rush through their 11 a.m. ceremony. In fact. the Sacred Heart wedding staff impressed the Massaros with their organization and flexibility. 
Paul and Brigid's request that the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir and two trumpet players per­form during the ceremony was easily met. And when they asked to bring in a non-Notre 

.


alenlines Vall pec1a 
1 dozen carnations boxed with 2 free mylar balloons $1995 Balloon bouquet special $1$00 
Heaven &Earth 
143 Dixie Way South (31 North) Across from Bob Evans 
273-2212 
~~~~~~~~~====~ 
It/ !NORTH VILL GE ~lf { MALL A'~ ~~ When Shopping For Your "Special Valentine'' 

• 
A linda's Final Touches 

• 
Cordially Yours Florist 

• 
Enchanted Cottage Bridal 

• 
Eve's Video 


• 
Fast Eddie's Hair /Tanning Salon 

• 
Gameworld Arcade 

• 
Jake's Apparel 


• 
Knappy's Komics & Kollectibles 


Dame priest, Paul's great uncle, to perform the ceremony, the staff made every effort to make him feel comfortable in an unfamiliar church. 
"They've got it down to a science. As long as you follow their directions, you can't go wrong," Paul said. "Despite what you hear about how nit­picky they are, it really went well." . 
The couple now lives in Cincinnati, Ohio, and remem­bers their wedding day fondly. "It was just a perfect day-even though it was rainy, cold and we both got parking tickets at the ACC," Paul said, laughiqg. 
For Sarah Hamilton and John Magill, deciding to get married wasn't as difficult as what came next-trying to squeeze into Sa­cred Heart's very busy wedding schedule. 
The 1986 Notre Dame gradu­ates were engaged in March, 1988, and hoped to get married the following spring. 
"John was in grad school at OSU (Ohio State University) and we wanted to get married during his spring break," said Sarah, who was working as a reporter for the Eagle Gazette in Lancaster, Ohio. "But that was Lent and you can't get married during Lent." 
Choosing June as the next best month, Sarah and John were told that Sacred Heart would be closed for renovations. 
"So then we had to re-shuffie again, trying to come up with a date," Sarah said. 
' ' 


The Observer/Brian mcDonough Sacred Heart is a popular place for Notre Dame students, alumni, faculty and administrators as well as registered parishoners, to wed. 
She called the Basilica at 9 scheduled before theirs, they 
a.m. on the first day they ac-had plenty of time to get in and cepted 1989 reservations. but out on time. "When we were was disheartened to learn the leaving, the bridesmaids for the only available time slot was at next wedding were starting to 
9:30 a.m. on her chosen day. arrive," she said. "But we didn't "But it actually turned out to be feel any pressure...lt was just the best," Sarah explained. beautiful-we couldn't have 
Because no wedding was asked for anything more." 
• 
Majerek's Hallmark 

• 
Marsha K' s Crafts 

• 
New Zealand Wool 

• 
Really Poppin 

• 
Royal Patrician Jewelers 

• 
Subway 

• 
Village Crafters 

• 
Village Landing 



~~~~.j\ •THE PLACE• 
~ 0 

~J>~0~~:q FOR SWEETHEARTS 
Romance is alive and well at RJ's Espresso Shoppe; with Michiana's Best Coffees, and only natural foods. OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 
•Gift Certificates Available In Any Amount• 
I09 W. Washing/on.7Jownlown doulh!7Jen~2t52..-2522 
Lower Level South Bend, IN 46612 (219) 291~6745 M~F 10~9 SAT 10~9 SUN 12~5 
South Bend, IN 4663 5 
(219) 288--3995 
M~F 7:30~9 SAT 8~8 SUN 10~5 


ACCENT VALENTINE•s DAY SUPPLEMENT

Friday, February 12, 1993 page 3 • 
Wedding 
continued from page 1 
ganizing the ceremonies, from pre-wedding meetings and re­hearsals to the actual wedding day. 
"If they don't get in touch with me one to two months before the wedding, I get nervous." said Kelly. who has worked at Sacred Heart for three years. "I don't function well when I have to race." 
But there's a lot to be nervous about when you're responsible up to four weddings on a en day-there's very little 
for error. Kelly advises a wedding uple on everything from the 
up of the Basilica to names nd phone numbers of mousine companies, florists, 
d photographers. She goes 

hrough all the bride and oom's options. and explains at they are required to 
vide their own music, priest 

. d altar boys. Although much preparation is one months before the 
ing and at the rehearsal, e actual wedding day is 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Sacred Heart wedding coordinator Donna Kelly fT!eets with a couple to be married this spring. tography Service in South Bend amount of photogra~hs, Scott tiJ:?e. then they're S.O.L.," Scott has tested the time limits with tries to take the most Important said. weddings at the Basilica. pictures first-for example, the But most times, things go "We've had the lights turned bride by herself. and the bride smoothly. out on us when we didn't finish with the groom. "I have to give them (the in time," she said. "We really "If we do run out of time, if Basilica stafD credit. They're try to hustle our way out of the weather is permitting, we'll very accommodating-as long there." take them to the Grotto to finish as you follow the rules," Scott To insure the maximum up. But if we don't have the said. 
Staff 
Pradt.Jction~· 

Over 1,000 different beads & a full line of supplies. 
Jeanne Blasi ·· Donny Modica
Classes Are Available 

Make That Someone Special a Valentines Gift This Year ­
Sun 12:30 -4:30 • Tues & Wed 11-6 Thurs & Fri 11 -7 • Sat 10 -6 Copy Editors.· Closed Mon 
Ke~y~ Johnso~·· 2222 Mishawaka Ave. 237-0500 Elisat;)~th··Heard P+i South Bend 
·~'f ·­
rA lllrtJ_C:.ClJ s
f'UJ ~ 
I' 
n Valentine's Day 
10% discount on dinners for ND/SMC students with ID or coupon 

crunch time. 
"I insist on the wedding party arriving at least a half hour early. That's the only way I can guarantee that we get started on time." 
With many wedding parties coming from out of town, guests are often late and schedules can be easily thrown off. One bride was five minutes late and even forgot the rings for the cere­mony, according to Kelly. 
"We have a really hard time getting people from the 9:30 
a.m. wedding out of here by the time the 11 a.m. wedding people start arriving at 1 0:30," Kelly said. "You have to be an army sargeant." 
With her intercom phone in the outer vestibule, Kelly can do just that. She uses it to alert the priest that they are ready, and to call the organist in the choir loft, signalling her to start the music. 
Time is precious when you only have up to an hour and a half to perform a wedding cere­mony and Mass, and take pho­tographs, according to Kelly. 
"I tell the photographers when they have to stop. If they don't, I go out and tell them 'No more-out,"' she explained. 
Mary Ann Scott of Scott's Pho-
REMANUFACTURED 
TONER 
CARTRIDGES 
~p~
~ecartndge 
Valentine's Day'Special for two-Lasagna Homemade Spaghetti, Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
256-1444 
1213 Lincolnway West Mishawaka Just East of 100 Center 
7be Gofonial 
PANCAKE 
.HOUSE 
?tUDify !Reslauranl 


Serving 
ND/SMC 
Students for 27 years 






FEBRUARY SPECIAL
Dinner 

Our House Specialty Special Oven-Baked
Valentine's 

Apple Pancakes 
Mon,--Fri.
Win a 

$J00 offall month
$1°0 off 
no coupon needed
Weekend 
all dinners After 3 p.m. 

U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn)
of Romance. 
272-7433 Just North of Campus
Open at 6:30 a.m. daily

Celebrate Valentine's Weekend at the Wharf. 
You may win a get,away weekend for 2 at the Fort Wayne Marriott and a $100 Gift Certificate w the fabulous Glenbrook Square Slwpping Mall 
(Indiana's largest), which is located just one mile from the hotel. • Simply treat tour special someone to a delicious Valentine 
¥ SPECIAL HOURS ¥

dinner and you can enter the drawing. • So take a chance on romance this Open Sunday February 14!h for Valentine Day
Valentine's weekend at the Wharf. 
Give Your Valentine a Romantic


Simply register and you just 
and Unique Diniil.g Experiencemight win! • 
Make Reservations Now! Reservations Recommended. 
Winners will he notified by phone. 
219-255-1526 
Tues-Thurs Seating 5p.m. -9 p.m.

American Express and all other Fri-Sat Seating 5p.m. -10 p.m.
major credit cards accepted. 100 Center•Mishawaka, In 
Upper Level Old Brewery Building300 East OJlfux at the River 234-4477 


MARKET 

.• AR9MANfll.. 
. t'tNNER ~R 2 I FRVM OfJR~ET
I 
TAU-DvT 
I 

,. f£~Tt\-t ~ ' ,. MRS.. ~NM&E•s 


---~-----~--~-------­
.-----~~~----------------------------------------------------~--­
ACCENT VALENTINE•s DAY SUPPLEMENT
page 4 Friday, February 12, 1993 
Sending a valentine to the campus sweetheart 
Notre Dame has a Campus 
She listens with patience to world. "You couldn't have Sweetheart. Jean Lenz, a Fran­fools, waiting for them to get picked a more perfect day. Isn't ciscan Sister from Joliet, living Father Robert Griffin something right. As soon as you it gorgeous out?" Is this dumb? in Farley Hall. If you were to do, she isolates the gem, high­As Nature's great High Priest, meet her in the Huddle on Feb lights and enhances it, then would lie not be most attentive 
14. and say to her, "Won't you beams it back to you. to the physical glory of His be my Valentine?," she would bellers Ia abone-(y 9od You're left feeling enriched by Father's world as He was answer, "I would love to be the wisdom that came whirling making His exit? your Valentine." She would, I'm the Sweetheart of Sigma Chi? Jean works hard at being a like paydirt off the top of your Brother Francis has shown willing to bet, confirm that These chicks are in the minor daughter of Francis, and I won­mind. You discover how her in his Canticle of the Sun promise with a hug that would leagues compared with Sister der if she ever sees ND in the creative she is when you find that Brother Death should be leave you strengthened like a Jean as a Franciscan Religious. way the 13th century yourself looking at a birthday greeted as a friend. Jean could sacrament. Meeting her on the quad, Franciscan Duns Scotus-"of card, hand-made by her, more have been sharing this unspo­
At Student Affairs, Sister Jean you'd discover that she doesn't reality the rarest-veined beautiful than any Hallmark ken thought with the Man of is an assistant vice-president in look in the least like a nunny­unraveller"-saw Oxford? Seeing could produce. Sorrows: it wasn't His beloved charge of TLC (Tender Loving bunny, or a sparrow, or the Jean discovers epiphanies in lilies of the field which were do­
Jean's eyes, you always make a Care). Before that, she spent a thrush in the first fine careless discovery. conversations that you remem­ing Him harm. year with the London program, rapture of a song; or the wild She speaks with amusement bered as banal. In repeating the Her next words: "I'll be sure 
after many years of teaching thing coming in from the cold to of students registering their conversation, she turns it into a to tell your mother I met you." Scripture and serving as warm itself briefly in the fire's surprise when they discover she dramatic monologue which she Hearing this, wouldn't Jesus Farley's Rector. She started glow, then re-entering the has eyes of hazel, one with a goes through as though she have been touched? Finally, the becoming the Campus winter storm, leaving us with patch of blue. It's there like a were following a script, which words that could be the story of 
Sweetheart from the first an enduring metaphor of man's signature which authenticates a she never deviates from in later Jean's life: "Sunday evening, if minute she arrived here twenty condition before Christ Franciscan original; signifying performances. you need a break, stop by the years ago. appeared to help us. that as a Franciscan, Jean is a When the moment of truth, room for some hot chocolate." 
To be the Campus Sweetheart Such pictures take turns chip off the old block. Before epiphany, or revelation is I would not risk embarrassing when you're twenty could mean coming into the mind, like emo­Francis, Christians believed reached,the hands go up as the Campus Sweetheart with that, in addition to being irre-tions recollected in tranquillity, that the spiritual darkness had though they were ascending this valentine if she weren't 
sistibly pretty, your folks own a after hearing Jean mention her birds, following the rubrics of a finishing her 20th year at Notre
invaded Nature; and if you cele­beach house in Cancun, where beloved Francis or St. Clare. brated it in the ways of pagans, liturgy. A gentle humor, of Dame, and I want her to know Domers are welcome to crash When I say that the it could seduce you from God. course, runs through the what a privilege and great fun it 
over spring break. Franciscan spirit burns bright Those all-seeing eyes of Fran­theater piece she has chore­has been to have her as 
To be the Campus Sweetheart in Jean, I'm not trying to cis' discovered "the dearest ographed. Applauding, you ap­neighbor on the North Quad. when you're starting to realize canonize her; she's too real for freshness deep down in plaud yourself sometimes as the If she ever gets tired that "They are not long, the canonization. But what does things ... Because the Holy Ghost hero, than as the anti-hero. keeping the fight in the Irish, days of wine and roses," and any of us know of saints? over the bent world broods... Many love her for the con­and dreams of moving to that the September songs will Religion has carved their The Prince of Darkness stancy with which she has of­greener pastures, I hope she'll be starting,and that the wine likeness in wood; as church punished Francis terribly with fered them tea and sympathy. remember this valentine and will simmer down then to a statues, they become painted afflictions of the eyes for Sometimes I imagine her as one remember Tinker Bell, when precious brew-this could mean dolls with sawdust for a heart. teaching his friars to give glory of the women of Jerusalem, at she needed applause to give her that thousands whom you have Rather than think of Jean as a to God for dappled things; but the side of the road when Jesus a new lease on life.. Here is the met love the pilgrim soul in you, Mother Teresa-type, I'd prefer because he did, Jansenism has passed by, saying her usual applause, Bonnie Jean, reduced and love the sorrows of your to think of her on a wave-length been on the run ever since. things which turn out to be to a text and prepackaged for changing face. with Smokey the Bear, on the Bill Clinton has been saying highly appropriate. later use.
-You've heard of Cleopatra, lookout for birds with broken we can use what is right with Grieved and muted with grief Happy St. Valentine's day to the femme fatale, the Golden wings; for robins fallen from America to change what is at seeing how stricken He looks, all the daughters of St. Francis Girls, the Gibson Girl; the girls their nests; for the furry wrong with America. Jean has she struggles to find words that who helped you be who you men leave behind them; of creatures wounded by hunters a beautiful way of doing this will show Him she has faith that are, and then shared you with even this is not the end of the us.
Mra_c_u_s_·h_l_a_h_,_M_a_v_o_u_r_n_e_e~n~,~a~n~d~~w;.,;.h~o~leave 
them to die. 
with people. 
T server 
is now accepting applications for the 
1993-94 General Board 
NEWS EDITOR 

ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The news Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas advertising manager oversees ad representatives and clerks and is responsible for and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. generating advertising revenue. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The ad design manager 
with the public. The viewpoint editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors oversees a staff of designers, works closely with the advertising department and 
and columnists, and decides what letters will run each day. is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SPORTS EDITOR 

PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The sports Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of editor manages a staffof editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. Thesections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible production manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works for the content of the sports section each day. 
closely with department staff on layout and design. 
ACCENT EDITOR 

SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The accent 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge editor manages a staff of editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, of computer networking. The systems manager maintains and updates the oversees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the accent pages Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire each day. Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The photo OBSERVER TYPESETTING DIRECTOR editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians, and must work Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience, especially with QuarkXPress, Aldus Pagemaker and Aldus PrePrint. The OTS director
closely with department editors is assigning photographs. manages all aspects of the typesetting business, including client relations and new business development. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor 
CONTROLLER 
manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible The controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
A~y full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submzt a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, Feb. 12, 1993 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 

-----------~-------..... 
Viewpoint

Friday, February 12,1993 page 9 
Excluding those outside faith is a modern problem 
Only five years ago interna­tional affairs were easy for the amateur to follow. The only three categories of military significance were NATO, the Iron Curtain, and the Middle East. While no one nation dom­inated the Middle East, it was 
Barbara Ballasty 
Never On Sunday 
easy to explain and predict the policies of other countries, based on their geographical and ideological orbits around the United States or Soviet Union. 
At present there is a new world disorder. The Middle East is as embroiled in controversy as it ever was. The Soviet Union dissolved itself, having as its heir a Russian Federation with no heart or capital to continue the arms race. (Whether the Russians would scatter their nuclear weapons among many nations for the sake of money is another story). Nations no longer need to tailor their policies to mollify the Soviets or their opponents. 
The exhilarating fall of the Berlin Wall and the reunifica­tion of Germany had seemed to be the first-fruits of further in­crease in peaceful unification of nations. But freed from cold­war distractions, people re­sumed the perennial pastime of nationalism. 
That is not to say ethnic dis­putes had disappeared entirely. In the mid-80s, animosity be­tween Sunni and Shiite Moslems prov9ked the war be­tween Iran and Iraq, for in­stance. IRA-Unionist violence in 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Northern Ireland hit its height in the early 1970s and still con­tinues today. 
But most alarming are the new escalations of old rivalries. Not content with their oppres­sion and impoverishment as part of the Soviet Union, newly­sovereign republics squabble with each other over territorial boundaries and harass ethnic minorities within their own borders. Just as distressing in its bloodless way is the separa­tion of Czechoslovakia into two republics. 
The nadir of nationalist fervor is, of course, Yugoslavia. Fol­lowing the death of Tito, the country had enjoyed a few years of relative prosperity, grounded in an uneasy unity forged by oppression orches­trated by Tito. 
But it took less than a decade before provinces sought sovereignty and armed conflict broke out. Hostilities escalated, surging through Croatia in 1991 and reaching new levels of methodical horror in the 'ethnic cleansing' of Bosnia in 1992. It is as if the Serbians cannot rest until no Muslim is left in this territory, and vice versa. 
The absurdity of the situation is brought home by glancing at the map of Bosnia proposed by the Vance-Owen negotiation team. In hopes of avoiding in­volvement by Western troops, the negotiators have proposed that Bosnia be split into about a dozen semi-autonomous can­tons like Switzerland -some Serbian, others Muslim and Croat. As if Bosnia weren't small enough, some of the new cantons would be less than twenty miles square. 
By those standards, South Bend and the St. Joseph River valley are fully entitled to politi­cal sovereignty, and in order to enroll at Notre Dame, we'd have to pass through Hoosier immigration. 

Two features of these conflicts are noteworthy. The first is their economic futility. Granted, the new divisions often reflect ethnic groups living in distinct locations speaking a different language. 
The borders we grew up with were contrivances of the first and second World Wars. But the case of Yugoslavia shows how the ethnic groups are inex­tricably intermingled, village by village, block by block. 
Yet the lust for sovereignty leads all these groups to claim rights to a piece of turf (in Bosnia by destroying it). When economic exigencies lead Western European nations to submit to common economic a'uthority, tiny territories claim economic independence. Creat­ing national borders where none had been before is a per­verse action, adding bureau­cratic waste, while risking insti­tutionalized bigotry. 

The second feature is religion. Religious loyalties exacerbate any tensions felt between distinct ethnic groups. In the former Yugoslavia, blood is shed by the Catholic Croats, Orthodox Serbs, and the Muslim residents of Bosnia. In India hundreds were killed in rioting precipitated by the destruction of a mosque built on an ancient Hindu holy site, an echo of the violence attending Indian independence. The two most bigoted regimes in the English­speaking world are found in .. South Africa and Northern Ireland, and in both the bigotry is supported by Calvinist certainties about the saved and damned. 
Religions can and have taught the faithless are subhuman. Even when they teach the opposite, the lesson is easily forgotten. When God is central to life (as is proper), believers want to make friendships and marriages that support this de­votion. They wind up with friends and family mostly of the same faith, and those of other faiths become marginalized and finally negligible. Today's conflicts display the conse­quences of neglecting social ties to persons outside our faith. 
Barbara Ballasty is a gradu­ate student in philosophy at the University ofNotre Dame. 
A response to the right wing, conservative Rush Heed sound 
probably garnered from the offense which should have pressure job in Washington, advice, go see Dear Editor: trivial comments of their faith­barred her from approval, but D.C. subjecting themselves to ful listeners. They took offense Mrs. Wood did nothing wrong in the merciless scrutiny of the women's hoops Listen to what is being said to the names of the women the eyes of the law. She was left nati_onal press. 
Dear Editor: 
these days on talk radio pro­considered for the post, claim­out in the cold because of the This is just a short note tograms; pay attention to Rush ing they were to exotic for the touchy political environment. In So, knowing that the "most 
indicate the Power Of The
Limbaugh relishing the demise job. lieu of this new "nanny-gate qualified person" will probably Press.
of the country in the hands of situation" it would be never fill the position, can we 
I had occasion to be on­

liberal leaders. People laugh Yes! names were their main interesting to take a look not accept a competent, 
campus last weekend for theuntil they almost cry as Rush objection. Perhaps they were through an ultra-sensitive intel­forthright, deserving woman to NO-Duke game. I noticed in the and his equals (Yes, Rush does uncomfortable with the names ligence satellite. Its very prob­serve as Attorney General? 
Observer of Feb. 5, Jonathanhave equals!) sugar coat some because they were used to able one might see a large per­And, can we not, as Americans, Jensen's article on the Notretragic flaws in our national hearing names like those at­centage of the political hopefuls who thrive on the inherent 
Dame Women's Basketball ...
character. tached to women who paraded in the area, in their back yards, beauty present in all corners of 
Team. As a somewhat
J?efore their hungry eyes on a burying baby-sitter information. our society, work to overcome Neanderthal alumnus, I don'tThe Today Show last Saturday skinny stage in a smoke filled the close-minded attitudes of think I've ever seen a women'smorning contained an interview tavern, a place where these It seems obvious that a search men like Rush Limbaugh? 
basketball game, Notre Damewith two talk radio hosts who exotic named women were ob­for the "most qualified person" or elsewhere. However, I took were the most closed-minded, jectified as butts and breasts, for the job must be a man. If We must support the women Jonathan's advice; went to thearchaic, chauvinists I have comfortably subordinate to conservative voices out there who have overcome sexist stan­
game with Duquesne and
heard in a long time. They their social position. deny this contention they dards and systems and reached thoroughly enjoyed the night.
betrayed their sexist standards should pick up a copy of the pe­for the ring of success. They are 
Jensen is correct. Coach
by commenting on the nature of Maybe these two men would riodical which lays just below working for a better tomorrow 
McGraw's squad plays an
President Clinton's selections be more comfortable with a their Bible on the night stand. for all of us. Why don't we all exciting and talented brand offor Attorney General and female candidate for the job help instead of waiting for them 
basketball. They certainly
HiUary Rodham Clinton's ability who didn't arouse their libido A recent article in the to fail? 
deserve the support of the
to handle the task-force on quite as much. Would names National Review contends that 
student body and the Notre
health care reform. like Nancy or Barbara be more women will never break the Finally, I say to Rush Lim­Dame community. 
suitable... or better yet proverbial glass-ceiling baugh and his clones, " Lead, 
My compliments again to

They sat there on national someone with a little more protecting the vast majority of follow, or get out of the way." 
Jonathan. He delivered soundtelevision, frumpy bodies testosterone like a Dan or an jobs like Attorney General. It Their sarcastic, cynical tirades advice.
slouching in their chairs, and Oliver. goes so far as to present are not helping us strive for a Regards and best of luck. 
berated Mrs. Rodham Clinton, anthropological data proving better tomorrow. They only calling her a political "time­The post of Attorney General women are simply not as satisfy the lethargic masses who 
Thomas Magill '55

bomb" who should not make it will hopefully still be filled by a capable as men to function in have lost all faith in the power 
President-elect

her prerogative to "be so woman even though President these social positions. This is of their government. It isn't 
Notre Dame National Board 

smart." They would rather she Clinton will suffer collateral quite simply the product of funny Rush. Its pathetic. 
of Directors 

"functioned" as a First Lady damage for carrying out this shallow male insecurity. should and suppress her God­"quota" policy. Mr. Patrick given talents for the betterment Buchanan, thankfully back on The search for the "most of this nation (and of course television where he belongs, qualified person" is a fruitless Nick Schlyer their privileged position as will be launching salvos to­one. It is ludicrous to say that Off Campus males in our blessed patriarchal wards the white house for the Attorney General must be Feb.8,1993 America). weeks about this issue. filled by a person who possesses 
the highest degree of 

They emitted guttural chuck­The fact is that Mrs. Baird competence. This could never les as they criticized the Presi­and Mrs. Wood were both happen for two reasons: First, dent for feeling it was necessary qualified to carry out the re­partisan loyalty will eliminate to appoint a woman to the sponsibilities of Attorney Gen­half of the eligible candidates, position of Attorney General. eral, but failed to meet the ethi­and secondly, the most up­Their arguments against these cal scrutiny of the administra­standing legal scholar will women were quite substantial, tion. Mrs. Baird was guilty of an probably not accept a high 


r---------------~----~~---------------------------­
The Observer accepts classlfieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Classifieds Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
EX-NO STAFFER & SPOUSE Need ride to NJ, PA, DE, NY for IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY · 1 HOME BED & BREAKFAST DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED spring break Eric x 1200 BDRM, USE OF ALL UTILITIES, AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON
L NOTICES FOR RENT
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER. 
GOAL-ORIENTED FEMALE WEEKENDS.NON-SMOKERS. REFERENCES. Swimming pool and spa company 3-5 person furnished house, Sec. PREFERRED. CLEAN, SAFE 219-291-2899.TYPING 287·4082 WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, has opening for retail sales person System, wash/dry, beach V-ball, 
NEIGHBORHOOD. $225/MO. CALL MULBERRY FL 33860 or PHONE for Summer season. 
PRIME location, 233-9947. MONICA 232-2794. 
3 BEDROOM HOUSETYPING 256·6657 (813)425-4404 Underclassmen have opportunity for 
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. multiple Summers work. 5 Br. house Newly Remodeled 
SECURITY SYSTEM Used Texts Cheap Pandora's 
Competitive pay, flexible hours and Near Lafayette Square. 
232-3616in the Bookmobile 12·4 daily 233­training provided. Send letter or Call 232-8256 Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom2342 ND Ave & Howard WANTED: 6·9 yr old boy for stdnt resume to 1919 South Michigan St., 

House now for 93-94 school 
film CALL Andy x4302 or Liz x2441 South Bend, IN BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY year 234-1886Dissertations. Theses, 
46613 

219-291-7153. Term Papers see Class/page 6 Word Works Typing Service 

• • . .... .. ­
277·7406 Jeffrey, you'U always be my Pooh. 
50,000,000 sweetheart! Love, B Will a certain little bear be my Laura. Erica, Happy 2nd Valentine's!!ThiS 

valentine? Love. TN I've had some of the best one will be even better than last SNAP-A-SCAM 
Ku-ku-lee-kee: times of my life since I started year!! Love. Pat 
ILUVUKAM 
Will you be my Valentine? seeing you. You've made me 6 For only $2 our s 
For real? Promise? Happy V-Day Honey !!!! happier than I've ever been Hey Jerky · I canl read! But N Pangborn photo-N 
I love you with all of my heart. before. Thank you for being you can so Happy Valentine's A graphers will get you a A 
•• Kelly, Michelle, and Nicole.. 
I'H love you forever -I love you . I PINKY promise Ill there when I needed you most. Day! Love,Squeako
p p 

Happy Valent111e's Day to mypolaroid snapshot of 
Sweet Baby D_ I will always follow your terms I Love You. your favorite babe 
awesome roomies! 
and don't ever forget our Love, Bart · I bet you thought I A (autographed even) I A 
contract. I won't. Marl< wouldn't remember! Happy 
Jif· Thanks for being my best friend, Valentine's Day .... TratneeS 4, Bart s On sale in the dining s 
Veronica, 
lover & soulmate. I love you more We'll be together ALWAYS 01 I love you. Stevec halls Mon-Fri til Feb 12 c 
than you'll ever know and I'm and FOREVER, DAVE KINNEY: A Photos delivered on A 
looking fOtWard to the next 65-75 Baby Huey. Freddie Flower. You are so hot. Real Hot. We love Hey Lemke, it's rare I find myseH at M Valentine's Day! M 
yrs together w/ you. You're the best­Billie Bear, and me you. your clothes and especially a loss lor words. but your myStacia, 
ever.SOCKS PARTNER· Your Doll. your chucks. (Oh. and your blue bestest bud. I love you.-John SNAP-A-SCAM 
Happy Valentine's Day to 

PS-It's a good thing I didn't go to Here it is ... jacket. And your good hair days. my sweetie!! 
Villanova! THE VALENTINE'S DAY REQUEST And the way you say things through RAKL: ECON TUTOR 
Love ya. Ryan LIST FROM HEI:L! your nose. We really love that.) I'm not scared anymorel Principles/tnt 

KELLY. "One More Minute" · 'Weird AI' We cannot tell you who we are but Just rerneber, think 'Bob' Manageriai/BCA 
KATHY-
Yankovic only that we want you more than hfe and someday we'll actually Call Tony Sindone 
YOU ARE THE GREATEST!! 
Ruff! Rulf! "Another Brick in the Wall, Part 3"­and Diet Coke itself. We'll fight for make it out of the room 1·325-8918 
Believe in yourseH. because I 
Pink Royd you if we have to. (We love a good HappyV-daybelieve in you. -J 
Love. "Love Don't Uve Here Anymore" · fight for a great man. We mean it.) Love. Wobbi Sappy Goomba Madonna We'U see you in and out of your red
ILOST & FOUND I 
"But Anyway" -Blues Traveler charnots ... if you can handle k Hey Dudel Happy Valentine's Day Sunshine!­
hey butt "I Am a Rock" -Simon & Garfunkel I think you're pretty cool. I am LOST-We switched long navy 
Hope you enJOy the weekend. 
I'm looking forward to our weekend "Terrible Lie" · Nine Inch Nails To Nicole Ricketts so glad I didn't sell you to Jessica Forecaster coats @ Tri-Mil. I have 
I love you. 
together ... what could be better than "End. -The Cure The Valentine of my dreams for $8. But anyways, I hope you your camer_a in pocket. Call Jen 
Rich 

wine, nuggling, and the "Being in Love" -Meryn Gadel Just thought I'd let the world know have an x-cellent V-Dayl I know I 284·5150 
Beast?Thanks for being my "Love· · Skinny Puppy how much I love you. HaPPY will. 
valentine every day-you're my "Used to Love Her· · Guns n Roses Valentine's Day love Chris Love Always. Lost-Canvas, brightly striped bag 
sweetheart! love. me "Don't Come Around Here No More· Your little shit from Jamison Inn after Tri-Mil. Call 
Pat­
-Tom Petty My dearest Deidre. Jen 284-5150 
I love you •Just the Way You Are." 
SpeciatK. "Everything About You" · Ugly Kid Even lhqugh sometimes we don't Rich-Happy Valentine's Day Happy 2nd Valentine's Day. You're 
Joe see eye to eye (one thing in from Marall Yow found my sportcoat. Please 
the bestl-E 
I believe that all the fear "1 Don't Want to Be Your Boyfriend" particular) we never share a dull call back: 288·3839 or 
you've had -Dead or Alive moment together. Thank you for not 1-7226 (days). 
Can gently fly away "I Love to Hate You· · Erasure only being my friend but that speaal To Sonia the North Quad Queen :••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 'Kiss Off' -Violent Femmes someone & something in my life. I Wow, it's been fantastic knowing 
FRED-­
LOST· Men's tan leather jacket with 

We experience we hold "''m Not in Love" -Talking Heads feel a love deeper than words or you this year! If there's a young leather gloves in the pockets. Lost 
..She Hates Surprises, Change her 
together and, of course emotions can show for you. I'm glad lady with more class and during the I.S.O. party at the 
Mlnd...U.k NOT REALLY!) 
Lost in one embrace "LOVE STINKS"-J. Geils Band. that we've been able to grow sophistJcation, I've yet to meet her. Greek Orthodox church. Please call 
Thank you for being my best friend. 
Thanks to everyone wl1o called in, together this long. I Love You -Hope your Valentine's is as much Rich at x4153. 
I love you. 
We will love forever and.until next time ... Michael a knockout as you are! Sincerely, 
(this eternity) HAPPY HEARTBREAKING!!! 2000 kisses. Sparkplug. LOST: Gold circle earring on a 
For in this love. I'm a~ve. -----------­
JIMMY-NAT loves LISA-8UEI! ' dangling hook at Keenan 
Dear Use. Mony-1 will miss you next year.Revue-1/28 
Gabaaaawkll!; 
Wit you be mine, Dar1ink? Bndgey and Leezer­Happy Valentine's Day!!! Take care of yourself ..lt has been Call284-5254 
scurry--scurry-sa.~rry, LOVE LOVE. 
Happy Valentine's Day Love. Dan real. it has been fun. but has it You guys are the greatest!!!! real fun .... good luck in L.A. Found: jacket at Corby's the first 
Erin-Love. your crippled roomie The Naked and Nutty M.E. week of school. Call271-7288 and 
David: You are the fire that guides 
Rosas are red. Lana. You are the "light of my hie"? ask for Mary to identify. 
me through the night. and my 
Fruppies are green, Please be my valentine! Love T.C. To the grooviest nurse in the heart's joy every day. I love you 
You're the most awesome PETER-infinmary -May you give as Lost: A navy blue Wimbeldon 
more than words can say and can't 
Girt I've ever seen! To the biggest GEEK I know. many shots as cupid has blazer at the Lyons formal Saturday 
wait to be your wife. You are my 
(Cheesy rhyme-aye?) HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI OhGAWWWD-Happy hean day from the night at Union Station. Please call 
true companion always. Happy 
It's been about six weeks now, Thanks lor taking care of me Will U be my Valentine? If U say grooviest blonde gir1 at SMC. Timat1422. 
Valentines Day! lymywyny Tanya and I just wanted you to know that I last weekend. yes I promise to pleasEr-C'mon, Hello to have no regrets and couldn 1 -OINK OINK girt, don't be such a TEASE! So Pop and B. too. imagine being happier. I hope the say U'll be mine, if not just sayDear Schrunchie-
WANTED 

rest of your day goes well, and be "FINE!" Have a happy valentines day Jen 1can't wait to Grill you on 
assured thai I'll be thinking of you. Michael· -Love, and Jory. You guys have been Sl,JMMERJOBS 
Sunday. Waiting to meet you in 
Happy Valentine's Dayll! Can't wait for the dance. Happy All fingers, no legs really cool lately. I appreciate youALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
bed again,Pukie ... Love. 
I Jove you, Valentine's Day!! guys a lot. Thanks for everything PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
The Groundhog Boy 

Fruppy Love, Prissy Farter -John ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
PAT BRENNAN­NEAR LAKE PLACID 
Eric, To PRINCESS SARALINDA: Happy Valentine's Day, darlin' I CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
You're every one of my dreams This heart is yours, not mine The Swatch is definite coofness-1 To our three favorite Lyons Hall t what wuv. you dork! 
come true! I love you! Always, for it is bound, for good or ill, love it!!! Horny Devils. Adoption-Active, Young couple 
Jennifer to do your pleasure ... Gan'l wait for tomorrow in. wants to adopt your bundle of joy. 
Looking forward to seeing Chicago ... We'd ijke to extend a few V:>IAntinA<il Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call 
Nell: No bark barks or cookies. my 
Dear Valerie: those deep brown eyes Gros bisous (mmm) de ta Day thoughts: Peggy 1·800-682-8628. 
dear. Just a little somethmg to 
The four best things in the tonight. .......... Love, -Debra -•t: AI, ... BOO!Il remind you how wonderful you are 
world: The Chowder House. L p.s. Tu seras mon Valentine•• . How bout a special Valentines Help Help I Helpl Help! Help! 
even if you do have a compulsive 
Jewett Place, a roaring fire. n'est-ce pas? beer? Desperate female seeking ride to 
urge to run your hose. Happy 
and you. Happy V Day f ·How bout a special Valentines Washington D.C. for Spring Break. 
Valentine's day-M.Y. 
Love, the Lemon Man It's fun with personals time .... srnoke? ... Notll Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call 
Drummer Boy, · If we did. "I" would probably lose Leah@ 
IF-.... Hey Kristy, Hey Kristy Happy Valentine's Day to ... These have been the best four her cherry anyway. 284-4308, leave message 
You really press my button! 

Oh Kristy your so great, Nut, Kate, Foss, Tate, Riddle, Ster, months of my life. Thank you. -Who's Miss Friendly Pants? Please be my valentine!! 
There is no one I'd rather date Bird, Stress, Molly, K, Gatherine H, We've had so many good times; . Ladies, it's 12:00. Do you know ALASKA SUMMER 
the fire of your loins, 

Hey Kristy, Hey Kristy Gatherine M. Uner, Robin, they will last. Happy Valentine's where your coobie is? Beller get EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn 
1L Oh Kristy your so fine, Charlotte. Alicia, Wentling. The Day! I love you ... and I'm NOT jail your Bio book AI, pg? $600+/week in canneries or 
Won't you be my VALENTINE? awesome 3rd floor PW freshmen. bait! Love always, IRISH EYES the · Movies?!! ... Pizza?!I...Beerl!l $4000+/month on fishing boats. 
MLC: 
the sophs in 2A, Rausch. Rich, 'youth" -"I"... Snickers! Free transportation! Room & Board I 
My dear Sonia (yes, it's me. Aren't Cam, Andy, Pat, Hazel, Joe. Kev, T, -We were gonna get you a Over 8000 openings. No experience 
Once I dimbed a mountain range 
you surprised?), as always. I wish lim, Ed, Ron, Chris, Jell, Ted, VALENTINE RIODLE: What do AI, but we just cou.ldn't find, "A necessary. Male or Female. For 
Tripped on many rocks along the 
you the very bestest. I wish I could Dude, the other Jrs in Sleds, the Miss "90 days -Ott well,· Mary diamond in the roughr employment program call 1-206­
way be with you today sweetie. You boyfriends in Gavanaugh (Rtz, Dan, Bowler/Beer bottle. and Becca "Huhhhhr 545-4155 ext. A5584 
Had to occassionally stop to make never know. fifth time's a charm! Sam. Brian), Schnack, Darren. "What's my major?" have in -Happy Valentines Day! Ladies, 
my camp 
Pravda? Take care. Love, Eric Sean, Matt, Sexy, and whoever else common? and ... Nice Coobie!!! INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­
Weather could slow my climb too 
I forgot.... ANSWER: They"re the best We Luv U Guys, Make money teaching basic 
well 
M. Elizabeth: roommates around. Happy Val. Mr. Magic Pants conversational English abroad. 
When I reached the top so high 
+iappy V-day. International greetings to Elisa. Day! Love. Kelly Mr. ROTC Pants Japan and Taiwan. Many provide 
tt an seemed worth it. 
Thanks for always Michelle, Mark & Chris, Brems, room & board + other benefits I 
being there to ijsten and Lucas, Jill, Pribaz ... Make $2,000·$4,000+ per month. 
What would fife be without 
being a best friend. Wrth Love, Marten xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo Maya,
No previous training or teaching 

mountains, Maureen? 
Love, Keith Ueaghan: Is there any way I can expresscertificate required. For employment 
You are the best friend in the you how much you've changedprogram call: 
Happy St. Valentine"s Day! 
Kerry, Hey Sexy!! whole wor1d! ~fe? You've restored my faith in (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. 
Memphis St. may be better Yes, Romeo, that's you. THANK YOU for always being and in myself. We've shared so 
and the dollar may be dead. Who would have thought at Danny there for ME! much together and grown so close Driving South for Spring Break? 
HEATHER MURPHY 
but my love for you will Glover that we'd be wishing each .!!!!!!!!!!!!! I LOVE YOU 111!!!1!!1!!!! over the past few months. When I I need ride to Dallas. TX. Leaving 
last forever. other happy Valentine's Day this ......Alone we walk, •••••••• hold you, I feel a warmth and an Fri. 3/5. Will help w/ gas. 
Roses are red Elvis year? I guess we've come a long ....together we SOARt••••.. acceptance I've been without all Call Lynn 284·5473. 
Violets are blue 
way from "What do you want in a Always. life. You're my best friend. myI hope you realize 
relationship?" and "Do you kiss with James partner, my other haH. I'm so Mothers helper needed part time 
How much I LOVE YOU!!! 
To my Sweet Valentine Karen your glasses on?" xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo to entrust my heart to you. I know days and evenings. Perfect for 
Jenista: Looks like we've got answers to Sending you lots of you'N cherish it as much as I do summer job also. Must be friendly, 
Tihanks for coming Honey 
I love you, pussycat! "Meow! Meow! both our questions now. Hugs and Kisses! yours. I love you sweethear1. with experience and own car. 232· 
Love ya 

MeowI" I love you, sweetheart-xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo Ken 
2201 Danny 
Love, Jim Always, Shmookie 

Friday, February 12, 1993 The Observer page 11 
... ­
• •••••••••••••••••••• :·····. :······ :·····••••••••••••••• :·····. :·····. 
./>~-~

;; ~ ~ : : : :: :: : :: :: :: :: : f:t~ e.~:
c::> ~~~~ ~ A , . ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . ;11 , A ~~ ~~} ~ 
~ ~~ ~ W -~9ilP-'y • !! .! !! ·.. i it. ii i! ii ·!. i i \,~,~~~-1J.t ~ y; ~ 
• .,..,., .................................... ···!.······ ­
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
At11111tlc Dlvlalon 
w L New YOlk 31 15 NBwJei'IIGY 28 20 Boston 25 21 Orlando 22 22 Philadelphia17 28 Miami 16 29 Washlnqton 15 32 

Central Dlvlelon Chicago 33 15 Cleveland 30 19 Charlotte 24 2t 
Atlanta 23 23 Indiana 22 25 Detroit til 27 Milwaukee 18 28 Thureday'a Game• Lata Game• Not Included New York t25, Houston 95 Charlotte tt8, Orlando t 07 
Mldw..t  Dlvlalon  
w  L  
San Antonio  31  14  
Utah  30  16  
Houston  27  21  
Denver  18  28  
Ml.mesota  10  33  
DaDas  4  41  
Pacific  D lvlelon  
Phoenix  35  9  
Seattle  30  16  
Portland  28  15  
LA Lakers  25  22  

Atlanta at Sacramento, (n) Portland at LA ClipPers. t 0:30 p.m. 
1&1 
::1: 
.... 

HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OffiCE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 19, 1993 
... 
Pd. .674 
.583 .543 .500 
.378 .358 .319 
.688 .612 .533 

WESTERN CONFERENCE 
.500 LA Clippers 24 23 .468 
Golden State 20 28 .4t3 
Sacramento 16 30 .39t 
Friday·• GarnH Charlotte at Miami, 7~ p.m. 
Milwaukee at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. 
PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERs-suspended Dave

Minnesota at Indiana. 7:30 p.m. 
Johnson and Tracy Murray, forwards, for three game11

New Jersey at Detro~. 8 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL Amerlcan League CALIFORNIA ANGELs-Agreed to terl118 wtlh Scott 
Sanderson, p~cher, on a one-year contract. Pd. KANSAS CITY ROYAL$-Agreed to terl118 w~h .689 Chrla Gwynn, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
.652 
National League .563 ATLANTA BRAVEs-Agreed to terl118 w~h Ryan .391 Klesko, first baseman; K~ Michel~ outfielder, and . 233 Pete Sm~h. Donnie Elliott, Matt Murray and Brian .089 Bark, pitchers, on one-year contract&. Announced 
Willie Stargell, roving hitting Instructor, will become .795 
special assistant to the director of scouting and .652 
player development. .65t 
HOUSTON ASTROs-Agreed to terl118 wtth Pete .532 
Harnisch, pitcher, on a one-year contract. .5t1 
NEW YORK METs-Agreed to terrra wtth Jell Innis, . 417 pitcher, on a one-year contract. .348 
SAN DIEGO PADREs-Agreed to teriTlB wtth Mke Scloscla. catcher, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon 
without pay, and fined Jerome Kersey and Reggie Sm~h. forwards, for their Involvement In a teen-age San Antonio t05, Washington 95 New York at Chicago, 8 p.m. 

Utah at Seattle, (n) Boston at Dallas, 9:30p.m. 
sex scandal In Salt Lake City.

Phoenix at Golden Stale, (n) Philadelphia at Denver, t 0:30 p.m. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16

The Observer 
shot Orlosky missed seconds 

is now accepting applications 
Valentine's Day Special

for the following position: 
ROSES 
$18°0 a dozen 
Fri-Sat-Sun

Design Editor 
~aternovvski ~arket 

Contact Jeanne Blasi 
at 2"d traffic light 

at 1-5303 for more information. 
Roseland 
272-0970 

,

Don't be ca t empty • Valentines Day is Sunday, February 14th 
Pre-Order by Friday, February 5th for lower prices at 
IRISH GARDENS 
All Delivery Orders Must Be In By Saturday 
Please make all orders in advance for fastest service 
Visa/MC accepted Open Sunday, February 14th delivery to NO/SMC/off campus 
12:30-5:30
Balloons/Cards too! 


Continental Baaketball Aaaoclatlon COLUMBUS HORIZON-Activated Sedrlc Toney, guard. OMAHA RACERs-Placed Alex Stlvrlns, lorward, on the NBA reserve list. 
YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Signed Ed Horton, forward. FOOTBALL National Football League 
NFL-Fined Troy Aikman, Dallas Cowboys quarterback, StO,OOO for leaving the Pro Bowl before the game was over. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recalled Vladimir Malakhov, delenseman, from Capital District of the American Hockey League. 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled J.F. Quintin, left 
wing, from Kansas City of the International Hockey League. International Hockey Laague 
PEORIA RIVERMEN-Asslgned Nick VItucci, goalie, to Hampton Roads of the East Coast Hockey League. HORSE RACING 
SANTA ANITA-Announced the resignation of Robert Strub, chlel executive officer. Named Stephen Keller chief executive officer. 
earlier. Her attempt sailed off the front end of the rim, and Notre Dame fell for the tenth time this season. 
"You're not going to win if you can't hit your shots," said Notre Dame forward Kristin Knapp, who led the team with 14 points. "And you can't win if you don't get back on defense." 
The lack of defensive stability resulted in 26 points from Xavier forward Lynn Bihn. A player McGraw felt they had to 
NCAA POLLS 
I. Indiana (21-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 4 Michigan, Sunday. 
2. 
Kentucky (17·2) did not play. Next: at Notre Dame, Saturday. 

3. 
Duke (19-3) did not play. Next: vs. No. 9 Wake Forest, Saturday. 

4. 
Michigan (111-3) did not play. Next: at No. 1 Indiana, Sunday. 

5. 
Arizona (15·2) at Washington State . Next: at Washington, Saturday. 

6. 
North Carolina (19·3) did not play. Next: at Georgia Tech, Sunday. 

7. 
Kansas (19·3) did not play. Next: at Missouri, Saturday. 

8. 
Cincinnati (18-2) did not play. Next: va. St. Louis, Saturday • 

9. 
Wake Forest (15·4) did not play. Next: at No. 3 Duke, Saturday. 

10. 
Ronda State (18-6) did not play. Next: at Maryland, Saturday. 

11. 
Vanderbilt (tB-4) did not play. Next: vs. Middle Tennessee State, Saturday. 

12. 
UNLV (15·2) at San Jose State. Next: vs. Louisville, Sunday. 



contain to win. 
Xavier came out of the locker room to start the second half and brought an 8-0 run with them. After five minutes the score was knotted at 4 7-4 7, and Washington began giving speeches. 
The loss dropped Notre Dame to 10-10 on the season 6-4 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Xavier improved to 12-7 and 6-4 in the MCC. 
--..... 
StartlineM 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES  • FREE FIRST ORDER OF  
When you write 8 checks or less  CHECKS Standard design  
• NO MINIMUM BALANCE  • PAYS INTEREST AT  
COMPETITIVE RATES  
• FREE INSTANT CASH  
ATMACCESS  

Come to expect the best. 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 

page 12 The Observer Friday, February 12, 1993 
Men swim at Chicago ln last dual m~et of season 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 

The men's swimming team will travel to Chicago this weekend to compete in its final dual meet of the season this weekend. Led by co-captains John Godfrey and Tom Whowell, the lrish will face the University of Illinois-Chicago Saturday. 
The series between UIC and Notre Dame, which began nearly a decade ago. has pri­marily been dominated by the Irish. But with a new coach, the University of Illinois· Chicago has had a very suc­cessful season. including a near victory over Northern Illinois last weekend. 
"As the last dual meet of the season, this is a sort of tune-up for the championship meets ahead." said Head Coach Tim Welsh. 
Tho meet will have more of a sprint format than usual. Both relays will be 200 yards instead of tht~ traditional 400, and all stroke events will be 100 yards long. 
According to Welsh, "the 


ROCRSIN 
FEBRUARY 
259-6000 


Rl. FEB. 12 -BACK DOORS lbunlllmJt.Bottnt DOORS "friluln 
AT. FEB. 13 ·FREDDY jONES BAND FRI. & SAT.-FEB. 19 & 20 
PS DUMP YOUR BOYFRIEND 
FRI. & SAT.-FEB. 26 & 27 i< the OLIVER SYNDROME 
•
'?.elf 

11 E. Day Road • Mishawaka 
Winter­
,. 

§pecial §ave 


Hurry ln. For a /lmltsd tlms only on a ons-yssr /sass. 
Look at some of the great advantages Hickory Village offers: 
• 
Beautifully Landscaped • Attentive Staff Grounds • Balcony or Patio 

• 
Clubhouse • 24-hour Emergency 

• 
Neat & Clean Laundry Maintenance Service Facilities • Air Conditioning 

• 
Cable TV Available • Planned Activities 

• 
Disposal • Free Aerobics 

• 
Sparkling Pool • Close To Shopping 


Stop by today and discover quality, affordable living. 
Efficiencies from only $250 1-Bedrooms from only $265 2-Bedrooms from only $325 

sprint format will help UlC," bu is good preparation for Notre Dame's championship season. 
"The men have not had chance to race these events in meet since Christmas. This · give us a chance to focus o starts, turns, and details tha we're not able to be as attentive to in the longer races," Wels said. 
UIC has. strong competitio for the Irish in both the medle relay and the sprint stroke events. As well, they are "pretty solid in diving," the 20 l.M., and the 200 butterfly, ac­cording to Welsh. 
"They will have a competitive team," he commented. 
Welsh is counting on Notre Dame's balance and depth t carry them past UIC. "If yo look at the total thirteen even program, we are a deeper more balanced team," he stated. 
"But Illinois-Chicago will force us to be race-sharp. We couldn't have asked for a bette format going into the champi­onship season." 

272-1880 
+llCKORij DlLLAC]Ef'A 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, Sat. 10.4 & Sun. 12-4 
Dearest Mo-Mo, 

Tennis hopes for upset of Kentucky 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 
Can Notre Dame stay with Kentucky? 
That question is a popular one on campus this week, and the responses of most Irish fans aren't very optimistic. That's because most people who hear that question think of Satur­day's men's basketball contest between the two teams. 
Members of the twenty-sec­ond ranked Irish women's tennis squad, however, are confident that the Irish can upset the Wildcats. That's be­cause their team travels to Lexington, KY. this weekend to take on the eighteenth-ranked Wildcats, followed by a match against eleventh-ranked Ten­nessee. 
Three freshmen-Wendy Crabtree, Holyn Lord, and Sherri Vitale-have jumped into the tennis starting lineup. 
All three women won their singles matches in Tuesday's 7­2 thrashing of a solid Wisconsin team in Madison. Perhaps the most impressive win was Crab­tree's 6-0, 6-0 victory in her 
Have a Happy Birthday! Love you 
& Miss you, 
xxxx 
Mom&Dad 

..Prooocatioe. funny. It Sizzles!! .. 
-Bill Clinton 

CAVANAUGH HALL PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS ---· 


A Two-Act Comedy of Intrigue, Adventure and Amour by Larry Shue 
THE 
s 

FOREIGNER 
"For Once I Agree With Mr. Clinton. This Play Maintains Traditional Family Values and Still Remains a Laugh Rtot. This Play is the Way Things Ought to Be!!" -Rush Limbaugh 
"Even Though Ah Don't Like Foreign Lobbyists, This Play Definitely Gets Under the Hood and Fixes the Engine!!" -Ross Perot 
Washington Hall, Feb 10, II, 12 at8:10. Tickets 13 Student, 14 Non-Student Available at LaFortune Information Desk Starting February Ist. 
first appearance in the number­have had on her play. one singles slot. "They have all been really supportive and encouraging," "We knew they were a good she commented. "They are 
team, but we also knew that we competitive in practice and help 
should beat them. Everyone us play our best. And we're all 
was a little nervous because good friends." 
Laura Schwab was sick and 
couldn't play, so we had to "For us to win this weekend," 
shuffie the lineup a little," said Lord said, "We really need to 
Crabtree. work as a team. Our number six singles and number three Vitale commented on the in­doubles need to play just as fluence the upper-classmen well as the number one spots." 

BE AN AIR FORCE OFFICER 
Put your degree to work in the Air Force. Good pay, management opportunties, medical and dental care, 30 days vacation. 
CaII 234-6713 
Plan to Attend a Lecture 
America: What Went Wrong?­
The Authors Answer 
by 

Donald L. Barlett 
and 

James B. Steele 
February 15, 1993 7 P.M. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Barlett and Steele are Pulitzer Prize winning reporters for the Philadelph•a 
Inquirer ~nd authors of America: What Went Wrong? a New York Times 
best-selltng book for over 30 weeks. 
"U;~rlell and Slet'lt ha.n: incisivrly and \hldl.\ ddim·d lhr jJruhlc:m furiu~ lht 
nutwn, and pro.,.t'd IIJ;IIIn that tht'rt' I~ 1111 audit'nct Tor 11 mt\<.Jt~t· 1h111 t'OIIIIIul ht 
I'UJIIUredh~ a :roound hitr, a photo opportunil~. or t'\t'll a humpt'r \lirhu.'' 
-1'11• ~ .... 'nr~ lUlU' 

A reception will follow their lecture in the Center for Social Concerns 
The visit Is sponsored by the Department of American Studies, Center lor Soc1a1 
Concerns, the Hesburgh Program In Public Service, the Schafsst1c. and Student 
Government. 
-------------~------------------------­
Friday, February 12, 1993 The Observer 
page 13 

Runners set for Central Collegiates 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team will travel to East Lansing Saturday to compete at the 67th Annual Central Collegiate Indoor Champion­ships. This meet will feature strong regional teams, including Michigan, Eastern Michigan and Michigan State. 
Last year, the Irish finished seventh in the meet with a score of 59.50, while Eastern Michigan won its third straight title with a 151 point effort. 

In order to combat the stiffer competition, some of Notre Dame's best runners will com­pete in more than one event. "Times may not be as fast as last week but they'll be competitive races. People tend to run more tactical races," said Piane. 
"I am very excited about .competing in East Lansing this weekend," he continued. " We haven't seen the Michigan team, and we had only seen part of the Eastern Michigan team. Michigan State is also a strong team." 
HAppy 20TH SHENNA A c~~~ WHops DAMN Good Au lt(fE[p~ NG BouH f~sus [FQJ ~t 
LovE, JENN, Mo, REN, BRidq, Kd ANd Al 
<[:".
Women at Bowling Green for quad-meet 
By MIKE NORBUT Muncie, IN this evening for the Sports Writer Ball State Invitational, featuring four of the strongest running The Notre Dame women's teams that the Midwest has to 
track team will travel to offet. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE 
AN ACCOUNT FOR OVER $400,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER 

AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
•STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 

•STUDENT 
UNION BOARD 

• 
HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

•CLUBS 
AND ORGANIZATIONS 


THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR BECOMING THE S1LUDJEN1L BODY 1LRJEASURJER THE FOLLOWING YEAR. 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT GOVERNMENT, 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 8:00 AM-5:00PM; 
DUE ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19 AT 4:00 PM. 
QUESTIONS, CALL 631-7417 
The Irish will be taking on Bowling Green, Ball State, and Western Michigan, a competitor from last weekend's Meyo Invitational, held at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Last week, Notre Dame com­peted very fiercely against teams from across America and Canada, including Michigan, Windsor, and Illinois State. Karen Harris came out on top in the shotput, while Erica Peterson won the 400 meters and the 4x880 relay team took first with a University indoor record time of 9:27.35. Western Michigan was led last weekend by Jill Stamison in the distance events, winning the 800 and setting a Meyo Invita­tional record in the 1000 me­ters with a time of 2:55.38. 
"The distance events will be key," said runner Kristi Kramer, who placed second in the 5000 meters at the Meyo Invitational. "We feel like we should be able to run pretty well as a team tomorrow." 
The Irish will be look to dis­tance runners Emily Husted, Stefanie Jensen, Eva Flood, and captain Lisa Gorski to carry the main load in the stronger events of the other teams in the meet, while Karen Harris, who continues to edge closer to qualification for the NCAA Championships March 12 and 13, will be Notre Dame's main competitor in the field events. 
Latrice Waters and freshman Erica Peterson will lead the team in the sprints. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE Our good rates may save you money We now offer a Good Student Discount Call fer a quote 9a.m.-5 p.m. 289~ 1993 Office next r.o Campus 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•I
ntemationaIstudentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lntemat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor 
Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travel Magazine! 
FREE 
TANNING 


-
{'hk>ago llalrt'utdng ('o~ 
In~~~ :~t~::U 
Grape ~~j~~~awaka 
Daily9·5 
sat. 9-5 ·Sun. 11·5 

..... --------­
----------------------~-----------------------~-----­
page 14 The Observer Friday, February 12, 1993 
..,. Men's tennis faces two more powers 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

The powP.rhousP.s just keep on coming for the Notre Dame men's tennis team, as the Irish travel to Minneapolis to face two more excellent opponents this weekend-New Mexico tonight and the Golden Gophers of Minnesota on Saturday night. 
"This is a big event for Min­nesota," noted assistant coach .J.P. Weber. "They will really be motivated to play against us." 
The matchups are yet another challenge on the Irish's power­packed schedule this season, which is arguably the toughest in the country. 
The Irish head into the meet on an uncharacteristic two­match losing streak, after falling to two top-15 opponents. On Jan 31. the Irish fell to 8th­ranked North Carolina 5-3, and on. Tuesday the 11th-ranked Kentucky Wildcats edged Notre Dame 5-4. 
"Going in, we felt that we could have won them both, and we were in a position to do so," 

~~GREAT \YALL. 
~ ~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT & COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Authentic Szechusn, Msndsrtn a Hunsn Culslnel 
UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT$895 ~~ $395 
lnctudn Soup, Sslsd Bar, A~I Different Emre. A Dnnrb 130 WayS., South Bend 272 7376 
to lf1ntllll'llnn) • 
r----------------, : 232·9299 : 
:American Cab Co. : 
I 1  "Frequent Rider Card"  I 1  
I  Ride 10 times and receive $3.00 off 111h ride  I  
1  "We appreciate your business''  1  
I I  Call ahead for prearranged pick-up  I I  

L----------------~ 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPOR1..J CATCH 'EM 
SATURDAY 
Irish Hockey 
vs Ferris State 
7:00PM 
-
JACC Ice Rink* 

Women's Basketball 
,0!1 ~ft' ~~ 
I I j • '. 

vs Dayton , r:\.. \\1 ­Special gu&-Phoenix Suns Gorilla \~ I~ I 
7:30 PM ,~,\),~ JACC Arena* 
*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
said Weber, "And with Andy 
hurt, it has made it even 
tougher." 
That Andy is senior Andy Zurcher, who was a member of the number-one doubles team and played two-singles, but has been lost to the Irish indefinitely after suffering tendon damage in his wrist. 
In Zurcher's absence, the Irish have shuffled their doubles lineup, which has yet to come around. Forsyth and senior Chuck Coleman fell to the Tarheels and picked up a win against Kentucky, while the two-doubles team of seniors Mark Schmidt and Chris Wojta­lik won at the opposite matches. The only constant has been the third-squad of senior Ron Rosas and freshman Jason Pun, who are 3-0. 
"Both their doubles squads are extremely good, so the doubles point will be crucial this weekend," stated Weber. 
The singles lineup has been dependable, but since Zurcher's injury the sixth spot has yet to be set in stone. First Pun, then junior Tom North, and now junior Todd Wilson is healthy and will take over at the last singles spot. 

With a schedule this tough, The Observer I Jake Peters the Irish are forced to find a Junior Ron Rosas has teamed up with freshman Jason Pun to turn in solution and move on-this an undefeated season at No. 3 doubles for the Irish. weekend to Minnesota. 
/·•m'l=IERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 

SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
......" ..................._.... .

$5.95 
TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 

~~~--0~h
/ 4' ,~~ccA">'·· _-, ··:::JJ_ ~" -:-~· __ .... : ;__e~Jii;:.~"!t~-~·;.~,_ ~s:•r _..1 
Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and warm garlic breadsticks. _,., It's all just $5.95. And you -,r-c, r __ f don't have to be a math 0/..•.WJ~~ 
major to figure out that ~ • that's a great deal. 
ITAI.IAN HJ <., li\IIH,\,'\j I 
WHERE AtJ.THE BEST Or l1At~· Is \t;t ~Rs: 
•Opposite University Pork Moll, 277-6503. 
Irish Basketball 

A Supplement to The Observer 
GAME NOTES 


THE GAME: Notre Dame (9­
11) versus Kentucky (17-1, through Tuesday). 
TIPOFF: 1:30 p.m. EST. 
TV and RADIO: NBC Sports will broadcast the game nationally. The Notre Dame Basketball Radio Network, coordinated by Host Communications (Jack Lorri, Jack Nolan) will broadcast the game to a regional radio audience. 
TICKETS: The Joyce ACC (11 ,418) is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP, USA Today/CNN: unranked. Kentucky: AP: 2nd, USA Today/CNN: 2nd. 
THE SERIES: Kentucky leads the series 33-16 and has won the last two games. The last Notre Dame victory came in the 1989-90 season at the Joyce ACC, 80-67. 
THE LAST TIME: Kentucky cruised past the Irish, 91-70, on January 2, 1992 at Rupp Arena. Richie Farmer led the Wildcats with 28 points and Jamal Mashburn chipped in 25. 
Notre Dame's top scorer was 
Daimon Sweet with 23, while 
LaPhonso Ellis added 19 
points and eight rebounds. 
FYI: The is the third consecutive weekend the Irish will be on network television. ABC televised the January 31 UCLA game to a regional audience. Last Saturday's contest against Kentucky was nationally televised by NBC. 
Notre Dame has an overall 
record of 32-42 Southeastern 
Conference opponents, but are 
15-4 versus SEC foes and a 7-2 
mark against Kentucky at the 
JACC. 
Monty Williams scored 32 
points at Dayton Tuesday 
night. The total marked a 
career high for the senior. 
Notre Dame vs. Kentucky 
Production: 
Rich Riley Rolando de Aguiar 
Design: 
Mike Scrudato 
Cover Art: 
Steve Duenes 


page 2 Notre Dame vs. Kentucky Friday, February 12, 1993 
Taylor ready to change his formula for successful play 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
opener against Evansville. Associate Sports Editor He scored consistently through the first few games of 
During his fn1shman season, the season. But then something the commonly understood Billy happened to Taylor's offensive Taylor equation was the follow­zeal. ing: Billy Taylor = defense. "At one point, I wasn't shoot­
But as he makes his basket­ing well from the field," said ball abilities evident, that for­Taylor, whose field goal per­mula may have to be modified centage was a dismal 34.6 per­significantly. cent just seven games ago. "For 
In 1991-92, Taylor was a boy some reason, I just stopped tak­among men. The only non-se­ing shots. nior startnr on John MacLeod's "When I did take shots, they 
first Notre Dame team, Taylor weren't high-percentage ones," was the crucial defensivn cog said Taylor. "I was taking
Billy Taylor 

for the Irish. perimeter jump shots." 
"I was a frnshman," said at 6-14 shooting. Before a recent two-game Taylor. "The four seniors took "I've guarded some great slump, during which he shot 7­care of the offensive duties. I scorers this season," said 18, Taylor enjoyed a string of was looked upon to play good Taylor. "Kareem Townes from five games in which he shot 
defense." LaSalle was a tough scorer, and over 58 percent from the field. 
And that he did well. Taylor Thomas Hill is a tremendous He seems to be on his way back used his wiry 6-4 frame to scorer." to offensive productivity. wreak havoc with opponents' Townes got off 28 shots "Teams like North Carolina, 
off-guards and small forwards, against Taylor and the Irish, in­Louisville and Kentucky will be 
usually facing the top scorer cluding 16 three pointers. But looking to stop Monty (Williams) he hit only seven baskets, live of inside and Ryan Hoover's jump which were treys. Taylor's shots," Taylor said. "It's going to defensive effort was the primary be important for me to improve
"It's going to 

reason. my offense." "I was especially happy with Taylor came out of high school the defense I played against in Aurora, Ill., a suburb of
be important 

Townes and Bernard Blount (of Chicago. His father, Dennis, was St. Joseph's)," said Taylor. a two-year starter at Northern "They both really struggled. Illinois during the late '60s and
for me to 

They took a lot of shots, but early '70s, and remains active couldn't hit." in basketball. But this season, the sopho­According to Taylor, his father 
improve my 

more has tried to strike a bal­is one of the most recognizable ance between offense and de­fans at Notre Dame homeoffense." fense. With the absence of the games. 
scoring consistency that "A lot of it is because we look -Billy Taylor LaPhonso Ellis, Elmer Bennett a lot alike," Taylor said. "My and Daimon Sweet offered last parents come to every game. 11ach team had to offer. year, Taylor has had to take And people know that my father 
He held scoring machines some of the offensive load on his played basketball, and is still (and first-round draft picks) like shoulders. active in basketball, so he gets USC's Harold Miner and UCLA's "I've had to look for my shot a extra attention." Tracy Murray under 50 percent lot more this year," said Taylor. When Taylor was shopping for shooting, and shut down Grant "Early if}. the year, I was more colleges, one of the major During his freshman year, "This is the part of the season llill, as the Blue Devil star aggressive offensively." considerations was the locatioQ Taylor's parents, as well as all when we have to finish strong," scored 11 points. Indeed, to begin the season, of the school. Irish faps, watched the young­he said. 
Taylor's defensive success has Taylor was aggressive going to "One of the reasons I chose ster turn in solid defensive play. If Taylor can add scoring continued during his second the hoop. He followed a ten­Notre Dame was that it's close Now a more experienced player, punch to his formula for suc­eampaign. Last weekend, Taylor point performance in the season to Chicago," he said. "I wanted Taylor feels ready to accept the cess, then the Irish may have a matched up with Duke's other premiere by scoring a season­to be close to my parents so that responsibility of becoming an solid chance of accomplishingHill, Thomas, keeping the senior high 16 points in the home they could see me play." offensive weapon. that goal. 
Assistant Black a teacher on the hoops hardwood 
By JENNY MARTEN Irish basketball team, Black was coach do? he was supposed to watch threH Out of North Carolina, he was Associate Sports Editor hired by head coach John One of his responsibilities is to breakdown tapes and about 10 drafted by the New Jersey Nets, MacLeod before last season and recruit top student-athletes game tapes in preparation for but was released the day before lie is a teacher, but he does has proved to be an important from around the country to the Kentucky game on the season started in 1982. not teach in an ordinary class­part of the Notre Dame coach­come to Notre Dame and to Wednesday. Getting immediately involved in room. ing staff. serve as an off-campus His past experience has also coaching he returned to North His classroom is the basket­"Right now my focus is to spokesman for the University. provided him with a few teach­Carolina as a graduate student ball court and Jimmy Black has work hard here everyday and On an every day basis, Black is ing tools. and a graduate assistant to a lot to teach. try to have our team prepared responsible for scouting Irish As one of the best-kept secrets Tarheel coach Dean Smith for 
An assistant coach on the for every opponent and help our opponents in order to have the on campus, he himself can two years. After assistant kids to get better team prepared for every game. relate to the pressures of coaching stints at St. Joseph's and better as This involves a good deal of playing high profile college (Pa.) and South Carolina, Black basketball players teaching during practice ses­basketball. Black was point came to Notre Dame. and to help to sions. He is a coach in the true guard on the 1982 North "One thing that attracted me restore Notre Dame sense of the word. Carolina national championship was Coach MacLeod," Black back to national In scouting opponents, Black team. As one of three senior said. "I knew of his reputation prominence-under looks for the weaknesses in captains on the team, he aver­not only as a great basketball Coach MacLeod," their offenses and defenses, aged 7.6 points a game and was coach, but as a great person. I said Black. tries to figure out ways for the voted the team's top defensive knew that I had a major desire 
"It's a fresh Irish to take advantage of those player in 1982. to be a part of his program be­
challenge every weaknesses and works with the Among his teammates and cause I knew that he would do year and it is an players. friends are pro standouts things the right way. opportunity to help "We try to be as well prepared Michael Jordan, James Worthy "Secondly, the University of young men to as we can be both for their and Sam Perkins. Notre Dame has its own appeal. mature both in life offense as well as their defense The members of that team Those two together gave this and in basketball. and then we try to put our kids still keep in contact with each opportunity tremendous ap­It's just like out there in a situation that other when their busy schedules peal." teaching. better takes advantage of permit. Black has great respect The assistant coach has high 
"This is an whatever they're doing," said for his former teammates, hopes for this year's basketball opportunity for me Black. especially the megastar, Jordan. team. to teach, and not Doing that requires a lot of "He's a special talent," com­"I think through hard work only to teach, but to time in front of a television. mented Black. "There's no everyone can achieve something 
learn. I am learning "I can't even count. It's that questions about that. In my special," he said. "And that is from the young men many. I can't count the number opinion, he is the best player to one thing that is unique about in our program and of videotapes we watch ever lace up a pair of basketball this group. They've worked hopefully they are throughout the season, but it is shoes to date. Obviously, there hard since September 1, and if 
learning something enough to keep us busy," said will be someone coming along they continue to work hard, this from me." Black. in the future who will make us season is far from over." But what exactly To give an idea of the amount forget all about Michael does the assistant of video footage Black watches, Jordan." 





Friday, Februray 12, 1993 Notre Dame VS. Kentucky page 3 .. 
Mashburn may take his Monster Mash to NBA 

By GRAHAM SHELBY more." The only good part of it, The Kentucky Kernel he said, is that it "takes my mind away from basketball." 
Jamal Mashburn stares into Apparently, this is no easythe camera, water beads on his task. After all, Mashburn won't muscular arms, a cold look on yet be old enough to buy a drink 
his face. The words under the (though he could probablydeflated basketball read "Pre­afford a few bars) when he season All-American Jamal bargains for a guaranteed con­Mashburn." tract in the seven-figure range.
His image on UK basketball's Just how often does a prospec­promotional poster, like the li­tive NBA lottery pick about his 
tany of basketball magazines first job? whose covers he adorns, is yet "I think about it every night,"another indicator that the 19-he said. 
year old New Yorker is ever-so­close to where he has always Mashburn got a taste of the said he wanted to be. best of NBA competition as a 
Mashburn has all but re­member of the USA Select served a seat at next summer's Team, a group of college bas­NBA draft ceremony and, bar­ketball's finest assembled to 
ring injury, ac~ident or act of scrimmage the USA Dream God, Kentucky's star forward Team before last summer's 
.. 
will be banging for bucks in Olympics.
November 1993. Mashburn and the collegiateHe holds that winning lottery all-stars, which included Ten­ticket by picking the right nessee's Allan Houston, Duke's 
numbers. The kind that make Bobby Hurley and Michigan'sNBA owners open their wallets. Chris Webber, actually bested Numbers like 21.3 points a the Olympians in one game. game, 56.7 percent overall "It was a great experience,"
shooting and 43.9 percent of Mashburn said. "They (the NBA three-pointers that slip through players) taught me a lot on and the net. off the court." 
Kentucky coach Rick Pitino The typically quiet, reserved 
openly has encouraged the ju­Mashburn got one lesson from a nior to turn pro after this sea­player with a seasoned body son. Mashburn said he wasn't · 
and mouth. surprised at his coach's advice. "Charles Barkley taught me a 
"He said: 'Just leave."' lot about speaking out," he said. 
The philosophy at work, This season, many feel Mashburn said is: "Take the Mashburn needs to forsake his money and run, basically." reticent ways and lead a Ken­When opportunity presents it­tucky team full of newcomers. 
self. "Why not, if you can do it "Mash has got to take it uponearly?" himself to be a leader," Pitino 
said. ­
Not that it's merely Pitino and Mashburn's response: "I have umpteen sports magazines to lead in my own way," even saying the 6-foot-8 forward is though he's sometimes "not ready for the pros. Utah Jazz going to be the rah-rah type of 
forward and Dream Team leader." 
member Karl Malone said 

through a spokesman that If there is an extra burden Mashburn has the physical at­placed on the monstrous one, tributes needed for a spot in the it's because he is the premiere
NBA. player on a team in transition. 
"He's big and strong and has Seven of the team's 14 playersall the tools and should be a did not participate in last sea­great player in the NBA some­son's drive to the final eight. day," Malone said. Despite the new faces, the 
Not everyone, however, is veteran seems to exude an air quite so enamored with Mash­of confidence. burn's projected jump from col­Other than inexperience, "I 
lege veteran to NBA rookie. To think we have no weaknesses," 
find a skeptic, look no further Mashburn said. He seems to than the Bronx home of Helen think this team has a chance, if and Robert Mashburn. leading candidates for Player of the Year honors. they produce enough real seat 
"My mother really wants me talk to her, too," he said. cations degree in the summer. for brushing up on Milton, the into their games to send him to get my degree, "he said. 

Whether it's for himself or as But halfway through the sea-noble gases or the Pythagorean into the pros wearing a ring.
Still even Mom can be per­a concession to maternal pres-son, the prospect of a contract theorem. "I really want to win a cham­suaded. 

sure, Mashburn said he plans to with no shortage of commas can Homework, he said, "doesn't pionship," he said. "That's what "I guess a million dollars will 
finish work on his communi-siphon some of the motivation really seem as impor;.:t::.::a::.::n::.::t...;;;;.;~-."=I~c,..,.a_m_e_h_e_r_e_t_o_d_o...,.~".....,.~.,....,~~~ 
Rhodes latest prize from St. Anthony's 
Freshman is fifth collegiate starter from championship team 
By MIKE SCRUDATO at Kentucky this season. from the 1989 St. Anthony's team to Bobby Hurley Sports Editor Throughout his senior year it was become a starter in Division I college 
DUKE

speculated that he would join the basketball, and the third member of 
When Kentucky's Rodrick Rhodes majority of the team to start as a freshman. was a freshman at St. Anthony's High teammates at Both Bobby Hurley and Dehere have School in Jersey City, N.J. he started on the Hall, and started throughout their collegiate Danny Hurley a national championship team. Rhodes had careers and Walker, who was a Prop 
SETON HALL 

The 1989 team that featured current decided to 48 victim his freshman year, has been collegiate standouts Bobby Hurley of remain in a starter since his sophomore season. Duke and Seton Hall's Danny Hurley, New Jersey f/!!ih Danny Hurley rounded out the group Terry Dehere and Jerry Walker without p by breaking into Seton Hall's starting Terry Dehere finished 32-0 and ranked number one looking 
five this season. 
SETON HALL 

in USA Today's Super 25. elsewhere. At 6'6" Rhodes is capable of playing 
Now, as a freshman in college, he But, his any position on the floor, but has found finds himself starting on what could be high school a niche at small forward at Kentucky. another national championship team. coach Bob Rodrick Rhodes Jerry Walker 
Through Tuesday, Rhodes is Hurley, Sr. From there Rhodes can use his ­
SETON HALL 

averaging 11.8 points and 3.1 encouraged Rhodes to look at some outside-shooting (39 percent from 
rebounds per game and has been a other possibilities. So, Rhodes went to three-point range) and his ability to starter since day one. look at Kentucky. drive to the hole. 
"He could be the quickest person on He opted to sign with Pitino's "He's a slasher," Pitino noted. Rodrick Rhodes the team." Kentucky coach Rick Pitino Wildcats after attending Kentucky's From the talents Rhodes and his KENTUCKY said. "He's very strong, has great famous Big Blue Madness, a midnight former high school teammates have leaping ability, and is extremely practice session that annually kicks off shown on the collegiate level, the only explosive." the Wildcats' season. thing left to wonder about is this: can 
Hhodes came very close to not being Rhodes has become the fifth player all five make it to the NBA? 



.. 
page 4 Notre Dame vs. Kentucky Friday, February 12, 1993 
Irish face major test in 'Cats 
-
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

The task Notre Dame's men's basketball team faces Saturday will not be an easy one. As a matter of faet. it may just be the toughest game the Irish play all season. 
The University of Kentucky comes into the game ranked second in the country, boasting a 17-1 record through Tuesday and one of the top players in the nation. 
Jamal "Monster Mash" Mashburn, a 6'8", 240-lb. for-ward, is one of the favorites for 1993 player of the year. A multi­talented player. Mashburn is equally comfortable behind the three-point line, setting the UK record for three-point shooting percentage at 43.9% last season, and banging in the lane, finishing fourth in the Southeast Conference with 7.8 rebounds a game. 

"There aren't enough acco­lades to describe how we feel about Jamal Mashburn, because he has maintained his humility, along with his basketball greatness." said Kentucky coach Rick Pitino. "He can only get better. because he's still physically young." 
So far this season, Mashburn is making his coach's prediction come true. Mashburn is averaging 21.9 points per game and 7.9 rebounds, including season-highs of 38 points and 19 rebounds versus Eastern Kentucky. 
The Wildcats have been im­pressive so far this season, slipping only to number-11 Vanderbilt in Nashville. But that one loss was enough to knock them from the top spot in the polls, a rank they inherited after Duke fell to Georgia Tech. 
Along the way, though, the 'Cats beat current number-one Indiana in a border skirmish in Louisville. 
But Mashburn isn't the only weapon Kentucky has. At 5'9", 160 lbs., Travis Ford doesn't look much like a dangerous basketball player. But looks can be deceiving. A transfer from Missouri, Ford took over the point guard spot with the grad­uation of Sean Woods, and has proved a more than capable replacement. 
In addition to being a skilled playmaker, Ford is also dan­gerous from three-point range, a key in Pitino's up-tempo style 

PROBABLE KENTUCKY STARTERS 
,#b·. 
',illfl,,.' 
of play. 
Another one of Kentucky's top players may not have much collegiate experience, but that hasn't stopped him from making his presence known. Freshman Rodrick Rhodes, a 6'6" forward, is a product of St. Anthony's High School in Jersey City, N.J., the same school that turned out Duke's Bobby Hurley and Seton Hall's Terry Dehere, and has exploded onto the college scene. 
"He's a slasher, extremely quick," said Pitino. 
Another newcomer is Rodney Dent. a junior college transfer, is Kentucky's man in the middle. The 6'10" Dent is averaging 6.6 points and 6.6 rebounds per game. He has brought a new dimension to Kentucky's game. 
"Rodney gives us a presence on the team that we did not have last season," Pitino said. "He's an enforcer. He's very physical and very aggressive." 
The final piece in the starting rotation for the Wildcats is Dale Brown, a 6'2" senior guard from the same high school as Green Bay cornerback Terrell Buckley and former Florida quarterback Shane Matthews. 
Brown was the defensive player of the year for Ke-ntucky and is emerging as a three­point threat on the offensive end of the court. 
Kentucky also utilizes a strong bench in its up-tempo attack. Gimel Martinez, the starting center from last season, and Andre Riddick provide the Wildcats with strength up front. 
When Pitino came to Ken­tucky from coaching the Knicks in 1989, he brought his trade­mark style of basketball with him. His teams have always pushed the ball up the court and Pitino encourages his ath­letes to shoot, especially from behind the three-point line. 
An equally important aspect of the game from Kentucky's 
RODRICK RHODES 
This season, Rhodes is biding his time while Mashburn polishes his NBA skills. The freshman still manages 11.8 points per game as Kentucky's second-leading scorer. 


standpoint is the defensive end. In order to get more shots for his offense, Pitino likes his team to press, and has even nicknamed their press "the mother-in-law" because it nags and harasses their opponent. 
Kentucky's balanced attack will give the Irish problems in all parts of the game. Mashburn will present match-up dif­ficulties for Notre Dame. Monty Williams has the athletic ability to cover Mashburn on the perimeter, but Mashburn outweighs Williams by 40 pounds, so Williams will have problems when "Monster Mash" takes the ball inside. 
DALE BROWN 
Contrary to legend, Brown is not the LSU coach's long-lost son. Kentucky's defensive player of the year in. 1992,drew praise for his play against Duke in the NCAA tournament. 



1928-29 L~9-19 1946-47 1935-36 w41-20 1947-48 1936-37 w41-28 1948-49 1937-38 w47-37 1949-50 1938-39 w42-37 1950-51
-

1939-40 w52-47 1951-52 1940-41 w48-47 1957-58 1941-42 w46-43 1958-59 1942-43 L 55-60 1959-60 1943-44 L 54-55 1960-61 1944-45 w59-58 1961-62 1945-46 w56-47 1962-63 
The Observer!Brendan 
JAMAL MASHBURN 

Everybody's all-American is a 6-8, 240-lb. bundle of NBA skills. A sure thing in June's draft lottery if decides to pass up his senior year, Mashburn is the Wildcats' primary threat from the inside. 

TRAVIS FORD 
A transfer from Missouri, Ford brings the ball up for the Wildcats. His 51.7 percent mark from behind the three­point makes him a major player in Pitino's trademark offense. 

L 30-60  1963-64  L81-101  1975-76  L 77-79  
w64-55  1964-65  w111-97  1976-77  L 78-102  
L 38-62  1965-66  L 69-103  1977-78  L 68-73  
w64-51  1966-67  L 85-96  1978-79  L 76-81  
L 44-69  1967-68  L 73-81  1979-80  L 80-86  
L 66-71  1968-69  L 90-110  1980-81  w67-61  
L 56-89  1969-70  L 99-109  1981-82  L 28-34  
L 52-71  1970-71  w99-92  1982-83  L 45-58  
L 65-68  1971-72  L 67-83  1987-88  L 69-78  
L 62-68  1972-73  L 63-65  1988-89  w81-65  
L 53-100  1973-74  w94-79  1989-90  w80-67  
L 70-78  1974-75  L 96-113  1990-91  L 90-98  
1991-92  L 70-91  

.,.
Today

Friday, February 12, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


8E.CA~SE. \\ \':> M~N'S \t-IDoM\TI\Bl\~ NAT\JR£ TO SCI\RE. \-1\MS't..\..r '3\\.U VoR I'ICl GClCl\) RCJISD"-1 .' 
BILL WATTERSON 
1\= '10\J 1-\f:..\(£ \\ \-\OM~ \a TI-\E F\R£:, '{OV CAN TElL 1-o\'t.. \-\OW 
\1 Wfl-S. 
S£t.? TI-ll':> \S Wl-li Tl-\£.R.£ 
~£.\<C ~'01ER 
At-l'l GR.HT At-liMP.,L 
t.~\'LOR@S! 
AND HOBBES 
30 Mother of Dionysus 32 Mideastern monogram 35 Testimony 
preceder 37 Kind of beam 38 Times Square 
activity annually 41 Celebratory 
drinks 43 Author Turin 44Chevet 46 Reno-to-Las 
Vegas dir. 47 Madrigals' 
cousins 49Catches 52 This may close 
clothes 53 Kyushu city 55 Groups of 
horses 58 Annual greeting 

&2 Place for a frontal 65 Anne Nichols hero 66 Pronoun for the Pinta 67 A moon of Saturn 68 Hoffmann's 
Olympia 69 Caesura 10 "Clash by 
Night" 
playwright 71 Needle feature 72 Storied septet 
DOWN 
1 London theater sch. 2 With pictures: 
Abbr. 3 Kind of complex 4 Salt used as a 
photographic 
developer 5 Use an egg 6 Jack Webb's 
show 7 Procacious 8 Last word 9WillyLoman, 
e.g. 

-=-+'~-+-'-.-.."'+"+='':-i 1o T rotyl, for short ~':'+.±:-i 11 Alter follower -:=-+=+=-+.::~ 12 Nancy's man -:t'::-t:':+.::;+.::-1 14 Atomic pi I e 20 Prevaricate 
Su~~·· 21 Word of 
consent -=+:::+.=+:::-t::-r.:-Ei 25 Coins in Manila 
r::-+-::+.,......,:-i 26 Namesakes of a Varingian leader 
27 Compendious 29 Angelou or Plisetskaya 31 Taina of "Les Girls" 32 Nannies' vehicles 
33 Deceived 
34 Given name of the first H.E.W. Secretary 36 "F~r-jolly 
39 Party symbol 40 Caesar's lang. 
42 Refined 56 Affray 45 Hedonistic 57 Taco enhancer 
fellow 59 Immortal hawk 48Eat 60 Shade of green so What a &1 Mild expletive 
drosometer &2-Annieof measures "Oklahoma!" 51 Wimsey's 63 Topper creator 64 Podagra afflicts 54 Bogart role it 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0101 

Henry VIII on the dating scene 
•
Come lind out what SUB is all about... 
.... 
ouse 
1-2 p.m. 


............................................................................................................ 
Sports 
page 16 

Friday, February 12, 1993 
• 
.. 
JIM VOGL 
All Net 

Hurricanes on the ·court could wake up the echoes and fans 
Can you hear a raucous chant emanating from the usually subdued JACC crowd-"WE WANT MIAMI! WE WANT MIAMI! WE WANT MIAMI!" 
Dick Rosenthal, please give us something we will all enjoy. Please put the Miami Hurricanes on our 
schedule-our  men's  basketball  
schedule.  
For  two  teams  not  destined  to  

engage in post-season play, the game would bring meaning. For the winners, it would bring pride and fulfillment. For the losers, it would bring humilia­tion and pain. 
In no other game would the look of intensity in the eyes of Joe or Jon Ross burn so fiercly. How could they possibly live with themselves, or each other, after losing to Miami? How could they show their faces in the dining hall or at the 'brare'? 
Both Notre Dame and Miami fans have grown accustomed to not losing. The word is rarely uttered, much less experienced, during the fall. It hasn't been easy watching our basketball team get bumped off by teams like Providence, Detroit Mercy, and Butler. 
Our fans need something to get them excited, at least caffeine (but please, Miami, no cocaine). We need a date with Miami. 
On paper, the game only marginally qualifies as a Division-! matchup. Miami is wallowing at the bottom of the Big East, while the Irish have stumbled to 8-11 after losing their last five. 
But one factor that doesn't register on paper is hate. No other institution generates such hate among the Christian student body at Notre Dame. Not parietals. Not DART. Not bookstore prices. Nor dining hall food. 
The humiliating 54-7 loss in Miami in 1986, the fight in the tunnel at Notre Dame stadium two years later, the cocky taunting and overall success of the Miami football team brings instant envy and hatred to all Notre Dame fans. This type of hatred can inspire raucous emotion from fans and peak performances from players. 
The Irish sport a 4-0 record against the 'Canes on the hardwood, including pounding them 126-7 3 in Florida in 1986 and a 107-60 in 1990. 
Notre Dame's athletic department did take this hate factor into account in 1987 when scheduling the ultra­successful Fall Classic, a baseball tournament between the Irish and the 'Canes on the eve of the football game. 
Irish coach Pat Murphy and his squad responded with a 10-1 drubbing of Miami and All-American pitcher Joe Grahil. The game also proved a suc­cess at the turnstiles, as a capacity crowd of 5,800, the most ever during a Notre Dame baseball game, packed South Bend's Coveleski Stadium. 
We want to see the battle of Catholics vs. Convicts. this time on the basketball court. 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team resumes their quest to improve their standing in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association with two games this weekend. On Friday night, the Irish travel to Bowling Green, Ohio to face the Falcons of BGSU (13-17 overall; 8-14 in the CCHA). The following night, Notre Dame hosts Ferris State (15­11-3 overall; 10-9-3 in the CCHA) at the 

..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~JACC. 
Speeches can't lift Irish over Xavier 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
With a little over thirteen minutes left in last night's women's basketball game between Notre Dame and Xavier at the Joyce ACC, Irish captain Coquese Washington gathered her teammates in a circle. "Come on now," said the senior guard after The Lady Musketeers had tied the score at 49-49. "We gotta do it on defense." 
Washington was right. Xavier had erased a nine point deficit in the last five minutes by beating the Irish down the floor, getting easy scores before the Irish defense could get set. The had not only lost the lead but also the momentum, and the small ground on hand was be­ginning to sound even thinner. After Washington's speech Xavier gradual built a four point lead, and after a tension 
The Observer I Jake Peters filled final minute, beat Notre Dame 70­Audrey Gomez's eight points could not help 68. the Irish past Xavier. 
Swimmers to face UIC 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team travels to Chicago tomorrow to swim their last dual meet of the season against the University of Illinois-Chicago. The competition will have to come from within. 
"We have completely dominated the series," head coach Tim Welsh said. The Irish have beaten UIC each time the two teams have competed, and this weekend should be no different. 
The University of Chicago-Illinois has a new head coach, "a better head coach 
• see Men's Swimming/page 12 and a better 
program" this year, according to Welsh. They are coming off a four point loss last weekend against Northern Illinois University, a team the Irish beat earlier this season. 
Instead of worrying about the competitor, the Irish will focus on improving their racing skills. 
"We will be looking to fine tune our racing techniques. We will race while at the same time be working on our starts, our (flip) turns, and our finishes. Our attention will be on the mechanics," said assistant coach Randy Julian. 
Because of their lack of depth, UIC asked that the schedule of events be changed from the traditional thirteen event program, with 200-yard stroke events, to 100-yard stroke events. Welsh says this is because UIC sprints better, and is stronger in the shorter backstroke and breaststroke events. 
The line-up for the Irish shows seniors Tanya William and Kay Broderick and freshman Anna Cooper competing against one of UIC's better swimmers in the backstroke event. Williams will also be seen, along with freshmen Alisa Springman and Bridget Casey,.in the 100-yard breaststroke. 
Welsh has no problem with the shorter event program. "It will give us a chance to race fast with good speed. They are thinner than us (numerical wise) in the distance events, and won't be much competition. But they will give us the opportunity to race defense could not stop coach Muffet McGraw's team from a shot at vie1ory in the game's closing seconds. A baseline jumper by forward Sherri Orlosky pulled Notre Dame within two with 56 Sl~conds left. On the ensuing posse~;sion, Washington stole the ball from Xavier guard Nicole Like, but missed a layup. 

On the next possession, Like found herself on the free-throw line with 24 seconds remaining. After missing front end of a one and one, Notre again had a chance to tie the sc• fumbled attempt by Notre Dame's o resulted in a loose ball, but the Irish covered, and McGraw called a timeou with nine seconds remaining to set up final play. 
Washington inbounded the bal underneath the basket, and after tw screens found Orlosky open from the side. Her jumper fell short but the bounded outside to Washington attempted a fading shot from the 
see HOOPS/page 1 
fast."  NO faces Kentucky  
After the meet against UIC, the Irish will start resting for the  Monty Williams, here against Indiana, and the Irish welcome the  
Midwestern Collegiate and Eastern Championship meets in two  Kentucky Wildcats to the JACC tomorrow. For more detail!; see  
weeks.  today's special pullout.  

Hockey enters weekend without leading scorers 
"Every game is important and we need some help from other teams in order to avoid playing one of the top teams in the playoffs," says Irish head coach Ric Schafer. 
Notre Dame (6-20-2 overall; 4-18-2 in the CCHA) will try to break a 5 game losing streak this weekend without the services of two of its top scorers. Freshman Jaime Morshead, their leading goal scorer, is out indefinitely with a broken claviCle. While senior Curtis Janicke will miss the games because of an injured shoulder. 

"Someone has to step up and everyone needs to contribute." said Irish senior Dave Bankoske. 
"Carey Nemeth played well last weekend and I expect other players to produce," said Schafer. 
Bowling Green enters Friday's game after two weeks off from competition. The Irish must contain Falcons sophomore center Brian Holzinger. Holzinger's scored 23 goals and dished out 19 assists in 30 games this season. "We'll need to shadow him at all times, because he can hurt us," said Schafer. 
Besides Holzinger, BGSU boasts a 20 goal scorer in junior wing Sean Pronger. Also, senior Brett Harkins (14G, 21A) and freshmen Jason Helbing (llG, 11A) can hurt the Irish. 
Bowling Green leads the overall series 15-12-2, including a 10-4-0 record at the Ice Arena. 
On Saturday. Notre Dame faces off 
against Ferris State for the third weekend in a row Ferris is lnd by junior wing Doug Smith (17G, 8AI and se­nior center Kevin Moore ( 5G, 1 7 A). Junior Pat Mazzoli is the Bulldogs goaltender who allows only 3.23 goals per game and has beaten the Iris1 the past two weeks. 
The Irish will counter their oppo!;ition with freshmen Jaime Ling (lOG, 25A) and Brett Bruininks (6G, 6A), while Bankoske (11G, 11A) and junior captain Matt Osiecki (4G, 9A) provide experience and scoring depth. 
The Irish goalie situation has cl€ ared up. Juniors Greg Louder and Brent Lothrop will split the action this weekend. "Depending on whether or not they are sharp will determine if they play," comments Schafer. 
"We've missed some opportunities thus far and we have to battle to remedy the situation," concludes Schafer. "It wouid be great if we an get to the ninth S(:Ot in the CCHA and go from there." 
•
INSIDE SPORTS 

•Men's tennis faces powers see page 14 
IITrack teams travel for weekend see page 13 
•women's tennis faces Kentucky see page 12 






