~ 

Thursday, December 2, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 59 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Vietnam War scholars to gather this weekend 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI  tween factions in American so­ 
News Writer  ciety."  
"We have veterans from both  
Scholars from all  over the  sides," Slabey went on to say.  
country will gather this week­ "I do not have a political agen­ 
end for discussions about the  da."  As an example of the con­ 
Vietnam War and its legacy as  ference's  open-door  atmo­ 
Notre Dame hosts one of the  sphere, Slabey said one of the  
biggest transdisciplinary con­ veterans  he  invited  still  
ferences in its history:  "The  believes the war was justified.  
United States and Vietnam:  According to Slabey, some  
From War to Peace."  hostile factions in America op­ 
The conference runs from  pose contact with Vietnam until  
Thursday through Saturday  their government accounts for  
night  at  the  Center  for  all missing American MIAs and  
Continuing Education.  It fea­ becomes  more  democratic.  
tures major writers and schol­ Though Vietnam's economy is  
ars who focus on the Vietnam  basically  a  capitalist  one,  
War.  Two Pulitzer Prize-win­ Slabey pointed out that only  
ning authors, Neil Sheehan and  last  summer  travel agents  
Robert Olen Butler, are among  could  not  book  flights  to  
the wide variety of people who  Vietnam and the post office  
will speak at the conference,  refused to accept packages sent  
which will host historians,  from that country.  
economists, psychologists, so­ In addition to the wide range  
ciologists, journalists and vet­ of humanities scholars, another  
erans.  speaker at the conference will  
English Professor Robert  be Notre Dame's own Father  
Slabey, the conference's main  Theodore Hesburgh, president  
organizer, said the conference  emeritus,  who served on the  
By JOHN ZACH News Writer Eliminating preconceived no­tions and biases toward non­Christian religions and educat­ing people on the diverse num­ber of religious perspectives present in the world was the goal of panelists in the third installment of the Fireside Chats, "Islam." "Stereotyping 1.2 billion peo­ple helps no one," said Abid Yousuf, a Notre Dame junior from Pakistan in his lecture over the Islamic faith, the largest religion in the world.  He, along with a panel of four Muslim students from the University, discussed such top­ics as the essential components of the Islamic religion, the role of women in Muslim countries, how Islam compares with Christianity, and the religious implications of Salman Rushdie's novel and the con­troversial death threats handed out by the Iranian Government against him. "Islam refuses to be a religion only, it is a state of being," said Yousuf. This concept of reli­gion as a way of life is central to the Muslim culture. It is illu­ minated in the fundamental texts of Islam: the Koran, the Hadith (sayings of the prophet), and the Sunna (traditions). The central figure in Islam, Mohammed, was the final prophet in a long line of previ­ous ones. He wrote down the word of Allah in the Koran and it has thus become the most sa­cred text of the Islamic faith, said Yousuf. He stressed that Mohammed was only a prophet living a per­fect life and not divine in any way. He also noted that Moses see ISLAM I page 4  is a major event for anyone in­terested in Vietnam. "At the conference we will have major scholars," said Slabey. "When I say major, I mean huge -the most impor­tant scholars in the country." Since American political pressure and latent hostility towards Vietnam still exists, Slabey stated that "this is a good time" to have the confer­ence, which has been over a year in the making. "It's a peacemaking confer­ence," Slabey said. "But it's making peace not only between America and Vietnam, but be­ President's Civil Rights Commission during the 60s. Father Hesburgh will speak at the opening session along with James Brazee, president of Vietnam Veterans of America and a 1965 graduate of Notre Dame. "In general," Hesburgh said, "I think it's a very important thing to do in retrospective. They have some very interest­ing people coming." Hesburgh saw two important reasons for the conference. "One, you have to discuss what see VIETNAM I page 4  
By EMILY HAGE  "Four years ago was certainly  
Assistant News Editor  our worst scenario," added  
Director of Security Rex Rakow.  
Due to resultant injury and  "What starts out as innocent  
property damage, the adminis­ fun" turns into a "mob mental­ 
tration has enforced restric­ ity" that is potentially danger­ 
tions on the annual snowball  ous, said Shoup.  
light at Notre Dame, as written  Broken dorm windows,  as  
in the bulletin from the Office of  well as stained-glass chapel  
Hesidence Life.  windows and significant eye  
The  bulletin,  written  by  injuries from broken glass were  
Acting Director of Residence  among the harmful effects of  
Life Jeffrey Shoup. says that  the snowball fight which the  
"any participation in a snowball  administration is trying to con­ 
fight may result in disciplinary  trol.  
action."  "Every year when there's a  
"l don't want to tell people  big annual snowball fight; kids  
not to have fun, but at the same  get hurt and go to the hospital."  
time I don't want anyone to get  He cited specific examples, in­ 
hurt or do any damage," said  cluding one incident in which a  
Shoup.  student had a detached retina.  
The bulletin is circulated to  "I would hate to be injured in  
"curtail the violent part of the  the name of fun," said Rakow,  
snowball fight." according to Shoup. "This bulletin creates  "There are other ways to have fun at the first snowfall."  The Observer/Andrew McCloskey  
awareness and makes people think before they act." Bill Kirk, assistant vice-presi­ Measures taken by campus security to restrain violence in­clude warnings, "keeping the  Students participate in last year's annual snowball fight. Security and Student Affairs are continuing their efforts to discourage participation in this year's fight by posting notices in dorms.  
dent of student affairs, added,  groups moving," taking student  about the first snowfall of the  think students are being mali­ damage". was undeniable.  
"(The bulletin] is simply to re­ identification cards, videotaping  school year after the 1989, in  cious,:" said Howard junior  ''I'm not sure if any of our  
mind people of the dangers in­ the event in order to identify  which dorms were seriously  Karen Hayes.  Zahm sopho­ students want to cause damage.  
volved in the snowball fight"  individuals creating the vio­ damaged.  In response to the  more Nick Capozzola added,  But sometimes they get carried  
and a "year to year reminder  lence, according to Rakow.  damage and injury caused that  "They'll have trouble enforcing  away."  She added, "Desire for  
that [students] actions will be  Students will be held  ac­ year, a committee of student  it."  fun sometimes turns in a bad  
disciplined."  countable for their actions and  and administration members  Sister Murphy, who has been  direction."  
A similar bulletin has been  they will  be disciplined by  was created to control the vio­ the  rector  at  Badin for  14  She said that the danger lies  
distributed since 1990, after the  Student Affairs, according to  lence.  years, acknowledged both sides  in the fact that for some stu­ 
1989 snowball fight, in which  Kirk.  Students, however, expressed  of the argument.  dents it "becomes almost a mis- 
there was "significant damage to residence halls and serious  "It's not something we want to do," he added.  doubts about this bulletin and its effectiveness.  "I don't think the University objects to people having fun,"  sion to be aggressive." Katie Murphy contributed to  
injuries," said Shoup.  Particular concern was raised  "It's all in good fun.  I don't  but she added that "blatant  this article.  



-----~---------~---~-~ ~---~--~-----------~---,..--------­
£P~ag~e~2~--------------------~T~h~e~O~b~s~er~v~er~·~I~~~S~I~[)~£~-----================:T:h:u:r:sd:a:~:D:e:c:em::be=r~_,_I9_9_3 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

HIV-infected are part of ND family

...;:;_____ 
I am not sure what sur­prised me more-that Micheal Thurnherr con­tracted IIIV while still a student Notre Dame or that the University allowed him to speak about it and his homosexualty publicly. 
I'll admit it. It took me by surprise. I was shocked­dumbfounded. I thought I had made a mistake, but there it was in black and 
white: "IIIV infected alum -------­speaks of awareness." Yesterday was World AIDS Day. Individuals from nearly 180 countries mobilized their eiTorts to advocate AIDS awareness and action. The messsage was clear-the spread of AIDS must be stopped. Buildings wore condoms. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's did their part 
too. No, there was no condom atop the Golden Dome, but the ND/SMC organization AIDS Awareness did pass out red ribbons to symbol­
ize awareness and compassion. 
And Michael Thurnherr came to speak. 
My initial surprise is not a result of naivete. I am not so sheltered to think that Notre Dame is somehow protected against this terrifying dis­ease, but it still felt eerie that this happened so close to home. To hear that a member of our own community, a member of our family, con­tracted HIV-possibly while on campus-was painful. 
But that the University welcomed Michael to speak so openly about his situation was surpris­ing. 
Michael rekindled the primary concern o gays and lesbians at Notre D~me--:-a Jack o 



Mutation doubles worm lifespan 

NEW YORK An alteration in a single gene makes worms live more than twice as long as normal, a finding that may even­tually gives clues for a healthier old age in people, a sci­entist says. Worms with the mutated gene "looked pretty happy and healthy" while their obviously aged contempo­raries were dying, said Cynthia Kenyon. "That's really exciting. We want to understand how that can happen," said Kenyon, an associate professor of biochemistry at the University of California, San Francisco. It's not clear yet whether the answer would have any implications for humans, but many biological processes seen in the worm are duplicated in people, Kenyon said. The hope is that follow-up study could give leads in developing medica­tions for a healthier old age, she said. Two other genes had previously been identified that could extend the worm's life by at least 50 percent, but neither prolongs life as much as the newfound one. The findings, pub­lished in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature, involved a tiny worm called Caenorhabditis elegans that normally lives in soil and eats bacteria. Researchers found that worms with mutations in a gene called daf-2 lived an average of 42 days, compared to 18 days for regular worms. 
Accused in Gandhi case plead innocent 

MADRAS, India All 26 defendants held in the assassina­tion of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi pleaded innocent to murder charges Wednesday and claimed they were coerced into confessing. Judge 
S.M. Siddick ruled there was enough evidence without the confessions to go ahead with the trial. He did not rule on the allegations that the statements were .... made under duress. The trial, which .~&, could last up to a year with about 1,000 witnesses, is scheduled to begin in February. It will be closed to the public and news media. Gandhi and 16 other people were killed at a 1991 election rally near Madras when a woman set ofT plastic explosives strapped to her waist. 
First wife's ashes stolen; marriage on hold 

LAS VEGAS For James Ross and fiancee Maryo Griffin, it was to be a symbolic end to one life and a new beginning for another. Then, someone stole the ashes of Ross' first wife, so they have delayed their marriage. Judy Ross died 12 years ago at age 52 and her husband kept her a~hes at his home in Indio, Calif. After Ross proposed, Gnffin confid­ed that she felt funny marrying him since the ashes were still in the house. They decided to scatter the ashes in the Grand Canyon as part of a week-long trip to Las Vegas during which they would tie the knot. On Sund~y. their car was broken into at the Vegas World hotel-casmo parking lot. A thief took $2,500 worth of clothi~g and other property, including the cardboard box holdmg the ashes. 
Father donating part of liver to daughter 

PHILADELPHIA Transplant surgery that will give a 10 1/2-mont~-old girl a portion of her father's liver began Wednesday m hopes she could be cured of a potentially fatal condition. Dr. Stephen Dunn, director of ~he kid~ey and liv~r transplant program at St. Christopher s Hospttal for Chtldren, began a planned five-hour operation at 10 a.m. to remove part of 28-year-old Jose Roman's liver, spok~swoman Carol Norris said. A six-to eight-hour operatiOn on Joselyn Homan was expected to follow. Joselyn has been sick since birth Jan. 21, according to St. Christopher's. She suiTers from Type I tyrosinemia. 
In the Tank 

Crude oil got cheaper this week. thanks to OPEC's unwillingness to cut production, but the price of crude accounts for only part of lhe cost of a gallon of gasoline. Other costs, such as taxes and refining expenses. are much less variable than the cost of crude and prevent lower oil prices from dilutmg gasoline prices more than a few pennies a gallon. 
2 cents each -Additives 
intended to reduce smog 
and average local taxes. 
8 cents -Costs of 
refining crude into 
gasoline and profits 
for refiners. frequently 
big oil companies. 
Man mauled by polar bear at radar site 

ANCIIOHAGE, Alaska A polar bear crashed through a window ~t-a ren~o~e ~ir Force radar site and mauled a worker, cntically InJunng him. Donald Chaffin, a 55-year-old civilian mechanic, was in· critical but stable condition Wednesday at an Anchorage hospital with a collapsed lung and cuts to his face, neck and chest. The attack happened Tuesday night as workers were relaxing in va~ious pa~ts of the Alaska Long Range Radar System at Ohktok Pomt, about 600 miles north of Anchorage. Chaffin and another man were watching television and doing crossword puzzles in the station's lounge. Alex Polakoff, one of Chaffin's five co-workers, shot and killed the bear. "It was just fortu­nate Alex had a gun," Leddy said. "Everything that moves is food to a polar bear." 
Female students harassed for dress in school 
MOROCCO, Ind. State officials of the N<J,tional Organization for Women hope that a letter they sent to the North Newton Junior­Senior High School principal will inspire school officials to apologize to girls who say they hav~ been.harassed because of their style of dress. The pres1dent of the NOW chapter said the letter also warns the sGhool system t~~t officials have been found in violation of state and CIVIl rights laws for failing to act on sexual harassment co~­plaints. "We (NOW) aren't worried so muc~1 about credtt for getting involved as we are abo~,t aiTectmg_ change_ at that school," Marion Wagner said. We are sttll workmg out other ways we might be of assi~tance." T~e letter was mailed to Principal Gene Bell Fnday, she satd. Bell could not be reached for comment. White female stu­dents sporting baggy pants, combat boot~ and braided hair say they've been verbally and physically abused since the beginning of the school year by a group of male students who accuse the girls of "acting black." Several of the female students were suspended Nov. 19 for refus­ing to alter their style of clothing, which officials said w~s disruptive. Several boys were suspended_ later f~r the~r roles in the incidents. Newton County police are mvesti­gating two reported cases of assault at the school. 


NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 2. 
FRONTS: 
.....,.--r ......_._ ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L a bSI 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN V18 AS60CUJ/sd Press 
H  L  
Atlanta  60  39  
Baltimore  50  31  
Boston  48  31  
Chicago  44  38  
Columbus  50  37  

[I]  0 - ~  ~ll  !)  
T-STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  
Dallas  63  59  New Orleans  72  53  
Denver  52  25  New York  47  33  
Houston  75  64  Philadelphia  50  33  
Los Angeles  75  48  San Francisco  64  46  
Miami  81  72  Seanle  49  42  
Minneapolis  34  24  Toronto  34  21  
Montreal  30  18  Washington.D.C. 49  34  

r-
Thursday, December 2, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Saint Mary's students face rodent and roach problems 
By MARY GOOD 
News Writer 
Little brothers and ex­boyfriends are a nuisance, but many Saint Mary's students are sharing their dorm rooms with even bigger and uglier pests ­mice, bugs and bats. 
As winter approaches and students retreat to their rooms to find heat, these unwanted rodents are not far behind. 
"When the heat is turned on, the buildings sometimes feel too hot and students begin to open their doors and windows. It doesn't take a lot of space for insects and mice to get in," said Marilyn Rajski, Director of Building Services at Saint Mary's. 
According to Rajski, however, the pest problem at Saint Mary's is minimal. 
"For the size and type of buildings at Saint Mary's, there are fewer bugs than I'd ex­pect," said Paul Haughee of Arrow Pest Control Services. 
Preventative measures are taken on a regular basis to keep the pest situation under control. Saint Mary's has a contract with Arrow Pest Control Service. On the third Wednesday of every month Arrow comes to campus to spray certain areas and re­spond to special requests. 
Among the areas routinely sprayed with a pesticide are the vending areas of all dorms and O'Laughlin Auditorium. These areas are given special atten­tion because rodents are espe­cially attracted to the sugars and foods that are served in these places, Rajski said. 
Arrow also keeps rodents under control in the science building by placing glue boards in the basement and other spe­cific locations regularly, Haughee added. 
Insects are communicated in 
a number of ways, but often 
times students bring the bugs from home, Rajski said. 
"Roaches are communicated by luggage, corrugated boxes and other things residents bring in," she said. 
"Lots of students come in from different areas including the South," Haughee said. "Who knows what they'll bring with them." 
The pest problem is partially seasonal, according to Haughee. An influx of rodents usually arrives at the beginning of the year when students are moving back in, and then again in the spring when students move out. 
Of particular concern to Holy Cross Hall resident, Jory Johansen, are mice. She and her roommates discovered they had a mouse living with them when they heard it scurrying about in October."I heard it about a week before I actually saw it," Johansen said. 
Johansen received a mouse trap from housekeeping that almost freed them of the ro­dent. 
One night when Johansen was talking on the phone she saw the mouse run out and slip under a chair. She then heard the trap snap and found the mouse with its arm stuck in the trap. 
Johansen called security to report the mouse alive in the trap and was told that nothing could be done so she and her roommate took the matter into their own hands. 
Although her roommate tried to exterminate the critter with a hammer, it escaped and ran under their couch. It has not been seen since. 
A similarly uncontrollable sit­uation is disturbing Le Mans Hall resident Marjean Perhot and her roommate. 
Since she arrived in August, Perhot has_ noticed ants in her room. She bought some ant dome-shaped ant traps at a lo­cal drug store to try to elimi­nate the problem herself. When other people in her hall began to report ants and spi­ders, the resident adviser con­tacted the exterminator who then came and sprayed the base boards. Although it helped, the tiny ants are not altogether .gone. Perhot and her roommate have noticed ants swarming even small crumbs of food and conse­quently vacuum often. 
In response to complaints about mice Building Services has opted to use spring traps and glue traps instead of the poisons that Arrow uses. These traps are effective and less haz­ardous.. according to Rajski. 
When a mouse is caught in one of these traps they are gen­erally thrown away rather than released outside again, Rajski said. 
Another main concern stu­dents in the older residence halls have is bats. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge of Macintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 

BuyaMacintoshnowandyoucan 
organizeyour time, strai tenoutyour
financesorgocomple iy · ·c. 

Macirllosb LC 475 4/80, Apple Color 14" Display, Apple KB}board 11 and mouse. 
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds ofprograms you need most. Programs to organize select Macintosh"' or PowerBook"computer, you'll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy software programs. It's all included in one low price. And the software an Apple@ computer? It does more. It costs less. It's that simple. ,_ package alone has acombined SRP value of $596~ It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 
-® 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
©1993 Apple Computer. Inc. All riRhis reserml APPle. /he Apple logo, Macintosh and Poll'erBook are registered trademarks ofAPPle Compute~ Inc. APPieCD is a trademark ofAPPle Computer. Inc. "Bmed on /he combined Su{!,!',ested Retail Prices (SRP) ofthe products in The Campus Sojiu•are Se/ for Macintosh c~· ofOctober /, 1993. 




page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thrusday, December 2, 1993 
in the Islamic world. He said that many times

Islam Kidnapped American diplomat released 
political leaders misuse religion 

----~--------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---C:_'_:_,_=m_····
___•___t;_•.;_~~~~~~~~==============,;-...~==~~~ 
continued from page 1 
and Jesus Christ are among the line of prophets who preceded him. Islam embraces the di­vine conception of Christ by the Virgin Mary. 
Along with the three texts, Yousuf continued, the five pil­lars of Islam play an important role in the lives of Muslims. The pillars are the Kalma (belief in Allah and Mohammed), the Olmadon (praying five times daily), the Ramadan (a month of fasting from sundown to sunrise), Alms giving (a four percent tithe that supports impoverished Muslims), and the Haj (the pil­grimage to Mecca once in every Muslims lifetime). All Muslims abide by these sets of guide­lines in order to achieve unity and harmony amongst them­selves. The pillars form a foun­dation for the daily lives of 1.2 billion people. 
After establishing the tradi­tional basis of Islam, the panel discussed how the religion interacted with the modern world. Such issues as women's rights, politics of Muslim nations, and ending of stereo­types toward some areas of the Islamic faith were discussed. 
"The most horribly presented issue by western media is the role of women in Islamic soci­ety," said Abir Khater, the only female member of the panel. She denounced the commonly held stereotype of the re­pressed Muslim female peering out from behind her thickly shrouded garments. Instead, she pointed out that women possess as many rights as males do in most Muslim coun­tries. The question and answer session of the presentation, the issue of the death threats placed on Salman Rushdie for 
his controversial novel The 
Satanic Verses arose. Yousuf pointed out that there is no 
separation of church and state for political gain. The outrage felt by many Muslims toward the novel was compared with the anger that many Christians vented on Martin Scorsese's film The Last Temptation of Christ. Both the novel and the movie challenged traditional views held by their respective religions and as a result threat­ened the power structure. The panel concluded that "religion is a passionate motivator and people tend to lose sight of hid­den agendas." Thus actions done in the name of "Allah" by many political leaders in Muslim nations are not repre­sentative of the true intentions of Islam, said Yousuf. 



Vietnam 
continued from page 1 

happened so people can really understand it," he said. "Two, I think people really work to­wards forgiveness. Those guys (veterans] had to slink back home. Now they [the public] have all kinds of recognition that they put their lives on the line at their government's be­hest. They deserve to be hon­ored like other veterans." 
Slabey said the conference was organized through a gen-
Associated Press 
SAN'A, Yemen 

Kidnapped American diplo­mat Haynes Mahoney was freed by his Yemeni captors Wednesday after six days in captivity. 
Mahoney was en route to the capital San'a from the kidnap­pers' desert stronghold near the Saudi border Wednesday evening, Interior Minister Yehya al-Mutawakil said. 
United States Information 

Service  spokesman  Rick  
Roberts  confirmed  that  
Mahoney was freed.  

era! call for papers as well as formal invitations to prominent speakers. "About 25 percent of the people answered that [for­mal] invitation," he said. "About 75 percent are people who just sent things in." 
Other headliners besides Butler and Sheehan are Larry Heinemann, whose novel Paco's Story won the 1987 National Book Award, and Lynda Van Devanter, author of one of the few Vietnam memoirs by a woman and a driving force behind the Vietnam Women's Memorial. 
§;":LiS II ~-"'; 

Happy Birthday 
~~il~~ij 

Ride that poodle, Cowhoy! 
From Four Guys Cooler Than You and Hammer 
"The embassy of the United States is happy to confirm the release of Haynes Mahoney and his safe return to his family, colleagues and friends," Roberts said in a statement. 
Roberts said the kidnappers had negotiated with the Yemen government for Mahoney's re­lease and had placed no de­mands on the U.S. government. 
The tribe who took Mahoney captive on Thanksgiving day had demanded back pay for discharged officers, payments of rental fees for an oil-pump­ing station in the tribe's terri­tory and development plans for the region. 
The interior minister declined to give any details on the agree­ment to release Mahoney. He 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THE~TRE 
announces 

AUDITIONS 
for 
A JR.AH§HN HN lflHliE §[])N 
Wednesday, December 1st & Thursday, December 2nd 6:00p.m. Washington Hall 
Guest artist, Kym Moore, wiU be directing this classic American drama about an African~American family in 1950s Chicago. This year marks the thirty~fifth anniver~ sary of Lorraine Hansberry's award winning play. 
For more information please call631-5957 or 631-5956. 
would not say whether the gov­ernment had made any conces­sions to the kidnappers. 
Mahoney, the 44-year-old USIS chief in Yemen, was kid­napped by five gunmen after he left a reception at a hotel in San'a, Yemen's capital, to go to a Thanksgiving dinner at a friend's home. 
Negotiations for his release fell apart Monday, but resumed Monday. 
The interior minister said Mahoney was released "through the efforts exerted by influential sheiks in the region who had insisted that the gov­ernment should not conduct any military operation to re­lease the kidnapped man." 

Flower Delivery 7 Days 
p@~y <tl ~ptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North 

1-800-328-0206
South Bend, IN 46637 







The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for the following General Board position: 

iewpoint Edito 
y Notre Dame or Saint Mary's undergraduat 
or graduate student is encouraged to apply. 
The editor is responsible for the contents ofthe Viewpoint section, from letters to columns to cartoons. Applicants should have good management and interpersonal skills. To apply, submit a personal statement and resume to David Kinney by Monday, December 6, 1993. Call David Kinney at 631-4542o Rolando de Aguiar at 631-4541 with questions about the position or the application. 


•••CONSIDERATIONS 
A Season of Welcome week to share questions, pray, and to learn about one's faith and life. Any undergraduate who is willing to make a minimum of a one-semester During these last, rushed days of the semester, it may seem like all we do is commitment may sign up at Campus Ministry between now and the end of final exams.
prepare to welcome finals week and try to figure out how we'll get all our 
Christmas shopping done in the six days after we get home. In the midst of the We are fortunate to find communities of people here who invite us to
end of one calendar year, however, another has just begun. A brand new year participate, who welcome us, whoever we are, who both challenge us and give
began in the Church last week, and so did the four weeks of Advent, a time to us the freedom to be the best people we can be. As relieved as we are to find prepare to welcome Jesus into our lives and hearts. 
ourselves welcomed rather than rejected, it is sometimes harder for us to welcome others, especially people who are different that us, people we thinkThe Advent season has had me thinking about how well we welcome people don't fit in so well. But we're the only ones who can make Notre Dame ainto this community right here at Notre Dame. As a senior in high school, a community of hospitality, a place where people needn't feel they have to passreal part of what attracted me to Notre Dame wasn't the academics, or the some kind of test to find open arms. To be a welcoming community is one way
football, or the weather, but the set-up of the residence halls. I told myself I to be a community which is a little more prepared to welcome the risen Christ, 
was opposed to fraternities and sororities on principle, but the truth is that I to say, "Come, Lord Jesus." 
wasn't too thrilled by the idea of rejection, and I figured I wasn't cool enough to survive a sorority "rush." The idea that I could be a part of a community of 
Kate S. Barrett 

women -Farley, as it turned out -who would be willing to welcome me before they even knew me was enormously appealing. And I was indeed warmly welcomed, even from the moment of our arrival when some sophomores 
ADVENT LESSONS AND CAROLS 
earned many points with my dad by offering to help unload our car. 
Sunday at 7:15p.m. in the Basilica 
After I was here for a while, it began to occur to me that I was now a "welcomer." My fellow Farleyites and I could help future incoming freshmen feel accepted by a community without the fears and possibilities of rejection 
SECOND SUNDAY OF ADVENT 
that come with a sorority rush. 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
How well do we welcome people around here? During these days of Advent, as we ready ourselves to remember the birth of the child Jesus, we look for ways 
Sat. December 4 5:00p.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. to say, "Come, Lord jesus!" in simple ways in these weeks. Perhaps it is a time 
Sun. December 5 10:00 a.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 
to take a few chances and look for more ways to be hospitable. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 

At this Sunday's 11:45 a.m. liturgy at Sacred Heart, 16 undergraduate and graduate students will take their first step toward becoming Catholic Christians. These brave 16 have been preparing as a group since September 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR 
(and as individuals, often for much longer than that.) 
THIS COMING SUNDAY 
This step is often called the "Rite of Welcome," for these inquirers make their first public commitment to the Catholic Church literally from the front door 
1ST READING Isaiah 40: 1,5, 9,11
of the church. However, the responsibility lies not just with those making public their wish to become Catholic. All baptized Catholics share in the task 
2ND READING 2Peter3:8,14 
of making the Church a more welcoming and hospitable community to enter. 
GosPEL Mark 1: 1,8
So it is that after the inquirers state their desire to take this step, the presider asks the assembly, "Are you willing and ready to help them come to know and follow Christ?" The people respond, "We are!" and with their applause, bring the candidates into the midst of the worshipping community. 
ADVENT PENANCE SERVICE 
For the second year in a row during Advent, Campus Ministry invites all 
Tuesday, December 7, at 7 p.m. in the Basilica 
undergraduate students to be part of Communities ND. These student-led 
Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C., presider
groups of ten or so men and women provide opportunities to meet every other 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Thrusday, December 2, 1993 
'Prime suspect' questioned in Klaas kidnapping case 
By MICHELLE LOCKE 
Associated Press 
PETALUMA, Calif. 

A convicted kidnapper was questioned Wednesday as the prime suspect in the abduction of a 12-year-old girl from her bedroom during a slumber party, authorities said. 
The whereabouts of Polly Klaas remained a mystery. 
Her disappearance set off a search involving hundreds of volunteers. Hundreds of thou-
Man accused of impersonating officer 
By BILL KACZOR 
Associated Press 
PENSACOLA, Fla. 

Michael Jacobus wore a Navy uniform to his father's funeral, dress whites at his wedding and a flight suit on military bases. He also never served in the Navy, an investigator said Wednesday. 
Jacobus fooled two ex-wives, other relatives, girlfriends and the Navy for nearly 10 years, said Diane Nelson, an agent with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. 
"I lis motivation appears to be that he was the, quote, black sheep in his family," Nelson said at a detention hearing. "Being in the Navy was an ego boost for him." 
There is no evidence Jacobus collected military pay or at­tempted to fly an aircraft. 
U.S. Magistrate Susan Novotny ordered Jacobus held without bond until his Jan. 3 trial for allegedly impersonat­ing an officer. She said she did not believe Jacobus could be trusted to return for trial. 
Jacobus earlier Wednesday pleaded innocent before U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson, a former naval aviator. But Assistant U.S. Public Defender 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Business Editor 
Business or Economics major preferred. The News depart­ment is also accepting applications for 
Associate News Editor 
For either position submit a two-page personal statement 

sands of fliers with a sketch of the bearded abductor were dis­tributed nationwide. 
Richard Allen Davis, 39, was arrested Tuesday in a house where he was squatting on the Coyote Valley Indian Reservation about 110 miles north of San Francisco. 
Tribal officials said he was not an Indian and was living with other non-members they had been trying to evict for two years. 
Robert Dennis told Novotny he was unsure whether the case would go to trial, and Jacobus said he wanted to get it over with. 
"I need to get my life straightened out," Jacobus said. 
Witnesses have described Jacobus as acting and dressing like an officer since 1984, and the Navy has documentation of a 1986 incident at Pensacola Naval Air Station, Nelson said. 
Jacobus said he stopped the charade after the Navy con-


Happy 22nd birthday, 

Love, Mom&Dad 

Davis was jailed on parole violations in the Mendocino County Jail in Ukiah, a few miles south of the reservation, while authorities worked to link him to the abduction. 
Davis was convicted in 1985 of kidnap, robbery, first-degree burglary and assault and sen­tenced to 16 years in prison, said State Department of Corrections spokesman Tip Kindel. He was paroled in June. 
There were no indications of any problems with Davis' pa-
fronted him in 1986 but re­sumed it recently when he be­came depressed. 
In October, he posed as a test pilot at naval air stations in Pensacola, Marietta, Ga.• Patuxent River, Md., and Oceana, Va., where he was ar­rested Oct. 29 after Navy offi­cers became suspicious and re­ported him, Nelson said. 
Several women believed the ruse, and a woman in Akron, Ohio, has accused Jacobus of taking $56,000 she gave him to invest for her, Nelson said. 


15¢ Soda Pop 12oz 

50 ct. .................99¢ 
Tissues 175 ct. ...............59¢ Toilet Paper 
4 roll ..................59¢ Paper Towels 
premiumjumbo ...........49¢ 
Garbage Bag.!. 
36 ct. ............:jj1.59 Disposable Razors 5 ct. ..................69¢ 
Paper Plates 
100 ct. ..............69¢ Snickers 6 pk..............$1.29 
Peppermints 
16 oz.................89¢ 
Pretzels 

9 oz...................49¢ 
~~~SG~~~§~~~~~ 

929 N. Edd HOURS: 3410 N. Grape Rd. 
M-Th 9 a.m.-7 p.m. Fri 9 a.m. -8 p.m. Sat 9 a.m. -6 p.m. Sun closed 

A L Dl 

CASH ONLY 
role until he failed to return Nov. 15 from a family visit to Ukiah, Kindel said. 
News of the arrest, the first major break since the young­ster was taken at knifepoint from her bedroom Oct. 1, sent volunteers at the Polly Klaas Foundation reeling. 
"It's like a roller coaster," said Maureen Dixon. "I came over the hill this morning think­ing, 'It's going to be pretty calm this morning,' and I hear this. We're here anxiously waiting." 


Grade APrices 
Waffles 
15 oz.................99¢ 
Coffee 
premium,26oz.••••••$1.99 
Pancake Mix 32 oz..................79¢ 
Lunch Meat 
2.5 oz.................29¢ 
White Bread 
20 oz..................25¢ 
Bologna 
16 oz..................99¢ 
Macaroni & Cheest 
7.75 oz...............2~¢ 
Soup 
10.75 oz..............33¢ 
Saltines 
16 oz.................39¢ 

Davis resembled a composite sketch of the abductor and was considered the prime suspect, said Police Sgt. Mike Kerns. ' 
'We're in the process of developing evidence that will link him to Polly's abduction," he said. 
Kerns denied a KTVU-TV re­port that human remains con­nected with the case had been found. A similar denial was is­sued by FBI Special Agent Rick Smith. 
-~--------~-~ ~~~~ ----~ ~~~-~~-~~~~--~ 
Thursday, December 2, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
~----------------~~--~-­
Clinton ends the year without any vetoes 


By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

After taking office with a pledge to end gridlock, President Clinton is closing out the year ~ithout a veto, the first time for a new chief execu­tive since Richard Nixon sat in the Oval Office. 
"We don't pick fights unnec­essarily," says Howard Paster, Clinton's chief lobbyist in Congress. "On the important things, we've been able to work things through." 
"When a president does have a majority in Congress if he's working it right, he's in a posi­tion to make the deals within his own party," adds Charles Jones, a political science pro­fessor at the University of Wisconsin. 
"On the tougher stuff, he's shown himself to be a 'let's make a deal' type of president," Jones said, referring to intense negotiating that enabled both the administration's budget and the North American Free Trade Agreement to clear Congress. 
Some Republicans see a smart political strategy at work, while others say it points up weakness. 
"Strategically they probably made the right decision," said Republican political consultant Eddie Mahe. With Clinton and Democrats pledging an era of cooperation "even one veto to some extent would undermine that and generate a lot of head­lines." 
But Lyn Nofziger, who worked for Nixon and President Reagan, said Clinton is a "man who's easily pleased. He's not a man who's looking for a fight." Besides, "most of the legislation that's come down is either lib­eral or inconsequential," he said. 
Whether he likes fights or not, Clinton hasn't found many with the Congress that went home last week. 
Records compiled by Paster's office show that before Clinton, Nixon in 1969 was the only new president in six decades to go a full year without a veto. 
It didn't matter whether the president was the same party as the congressional majority or not. John Kennedy killed eight bills in 1961 sent to him by a Democratic Congress, in-eluding two by pocket vetoes, a way of indirectly rejecting a bill by failing to sign it before Congress adjourns. Reagan re­jected two bills in 1981, when control in Congress was divided between the two parties. 
And for a new president try­ing to establish himself with the voters, a veto can be a useful way to frame broad political is­sues. 
Reagan came to office pledg­ing to cut government spend­ing, and cast his first veto near the end of his first year on a government-wide spending bill. 
In a well-choreographed drama, the White House an­nounced Reagan would delay a vacation in his beloved California ranch; the president convened his Cabinet to begin shutting down the government; and Reagan said he was acting to "protect the American peo­ple from overspending." 
Reagan's successor, George Bush, vetoed 27 bills, and killed 19 others by pocket veto in a four-year struggle with the Democratic lawmakers who cont~.:olled both the House and Senate. 
By last fall, Democratic law­makers were only too eager to send him tempting targets, hop­ing they would aid Clinton's campaign for the White House. 
Clinton came to Washington pledging to work with Democratic lawmakers, not against them. Some of the bills that Bush rejected were swiftly passed and signed -family leave, eased voter registration rules and liberalized political rights for federal workers. 
Clinton then negotiated his way to a dramatic budget vic­tory in late summer, and to a 
cliffhanger  triumph  in  
November  on  the  North  
American  Free  trade  

Agreement. And he showed sol­idarity with Democratic leaders last month in a showdown with Republicans over handgun con­trol legislation. The GOP blinked, and the bill is now law. 
Not that Clinton hasn't raised the veto threat once or twice. 
The White House talked veto this fall over a provision that would have restricted Clinton's ability to spend Pentagon funds on international peacekeeping forces. Lawmakers compliantly removed the language, and Clinton signed the bill. 




..' ..' domingo, 5 de Diciembre de 1993 
11:30 a.m. 

0 
~ Tod~;e;:~:~H·:~:~~~dos r-
All Are Welcome 

Celebrante 


Padre Robert Pelton, c.s.c. 
Sponiored byCampus Ministry 

Coro Prtmaver.~ de Nuenra Selior• 
The University of Notre Dame is proud to be host to the second round of the NCAA Division 1 
ACTION COMES 
Women's Volleyball Tournament. 
#16 Notre Dame vs. the winner of #8 Nebraska vs. Cornell unday, December 5 2 p.m. JACCArena 


---~ ~---~----~---­
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, December 2, 1993 
Breakthrough possible in Bosnia talks to end the war 
By TONY CZUCZKA 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

Bosnia's Muslim-led gov­ernment grudgingly said at peace talks Wednesday that it might agree to divide Sarajevo with rival Serbs, a possible breakthrough in efforts to end the war. 
Such a division, if carried out, would mean a final abandoning of the multicultural character of Bosnia, where Serbs, Croats and M~slims once lived to­gether in peace. 
Radovan Karadzic, leader of the Bosnian Serbs who have besieged Sarajevo for 19 months. said he regarded the government's position as mean­ing "maybe we are close to a good solution." 
"Frankly I find any division of Sarajevo to be repugnant," Bosnia's U.N. ambassador, Muhamed Sacirbey, told re­porters at the second day of the latest round of Geneva talks. 
"But on the other hand the people of Sarajevo have to sur­vive the consequences of the world not coming to their !Lid to lift the siege, and if the division is what the world deems, some­how by default, is necessary, then we're going to try to save lives," he said. "Death is more repugnant." 
While the leaders of Bosnia's three warring factions negoti­ated, mortar rounds slammed into Sarajevo's main hospital, killing two nurses and wound­ing a doctor and a technician. 
Top leaders boycott PLO meeting 
By SALAH NASRA WI 
Associated Press 
TUNIS, Tunisia 

Two senior PLO officials boy­cotted an emergency meeting Wednesday on stalled negotia­tions with Israel, underlining the growing discontent with Yasser Arafat among the move­ment's highest ranks. 
The boycott by Mahmoud Abbas and Yasser Abed Habbo, two of Arafat's closest aides, helped deny the PLO chief a quorum for the meetings of the group's Executive Committee, Palestine Liberation Organization sources said. 
Arafat had scheduled the meetings after coming under fire for his leadership style and handling of negotiations with Israel, the sources said, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 
Much of the criticism of Arafat focuses on his visits to nearly a dozen European na­tions in the last month seeking financial assistance as talks with Israel were foundering and violence in the occupied territories rose. 
Under the Israei-PLO accord, Israel is supposed to begin withdrawing from the Gaza Strip and Jericho in the West Bank on Dec. 13. But the im­passe in the talks and the rising bloodshed may delay the pull­out. 
PLO officials have complained that while Arafat has been trav­eling, he has refused to dele­gate any of his authority to other PLO leaders so they could deal with stalled talks and the volatile situation in the occu­pied territories. 
Only six members of the 18­member Executive Committee were in Tunis Wednesday for the emergency sessions. Six resigned to protest the PLO­Israel accord. two other mem­bers announced they would boycott the sessions, and two could not attend. 
PLO officials were making intensive efforts Wednesday to try to convince Abbas and Rabbo to change their minds. They are members of Arafat's Fatah faction and the highest­ranking officials to challenge him. 
Abbas signed the peace agreement with Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres in Washington on Sept. 13. Rabbo is a longtime Arafat associate and leader of the new Palestinian Democratic Party. 
Both men have previously expressed discontent with Arafat's handling of the nego­tiations. Both declined to take telephone calls Wednesday or answer any questions on their boycott. 
PLO sources said Abbas is re­ceiving considerable support from Ahmed Qurei'a, the Fatah Central Committee member who negotiated the self-rule pact with the Israelis. 
Abbas and Qurei'a want Arafat, who has personally su­pervised the negotiations, to appoint a committee to oversee the talks. They also want him to keep other PLO leaders in­formed on the proceedings and involve them in preparations for self-rule. 
A U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo, Maj. ldesbald van Biesebroeck, said the mortars clearly were fired from the north, where there are Serb gun positions. But Bosnian Serbs denied responsibility, blaming instead the city's own Muslim-led defenders, said another U.N. spokesman, Lt. Col. Bill Aikman. 
Serbs have relentlessly shelled Sarajevo since the April 1992 start of the war, which has claimed more than 200,000 lives. 
Serb forces now hold about 70 percent of Bosnia's territory, while the Muslim-led gov­ernment and the Croats hold roughly 15 percent each. 
Various peace proposals have proposed different ways of di­viding up the land among the three ethnic groups. 
Sources close to the talks said the Serbs insist on about 40 percent of the Bosnian capital in exchange for returning terri­tory to the Muslims. 
The MBA Association, in conjunction with Jim Davis' International Managetnent Class, proudly presents: 
Robin Witty 
European Business Development Manager for Apple Computers, Inc. 
on 
Friday, December 3 at xo:oo AM Room 310 DeBartolo 
Everyone is welcome to attend Resumes will be accepted 

The Alumni Assoc. & Senior Class Council bring you ... 
''THE GREAT TASTE OF SOUTH BEND'' 
Saturday, December 4, 7:30p.m. at Senior Bar 
Celebrate the season by sampling food from many of South Bend's favorite restaurants & enjoy great Senior Bar specials. Keeping with ND's great tradition of Christmas gatherings, dress is semi-formal, date optional. 
Tickets include food & DJ $6 each, $10 per couple 
on sale soon at Lafortune Info. desk. 
Benefits South Bend Center for the Homeless 
Must be 21 to participate 
A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAl. MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD 

The Biggest Value North of the Border 
BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE DELIVERY AVAILABLE 234-4015 

December 2, 1993 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
THE.S£. Mrs YeW Nf.E.~ ALL THE. HE.U YOII <AN ~T. THAT'S WHY WE. OFffJ. A~/,ooo <~.f.~/T LIN£ AN~ NO ANNIIAL F[[. THO.£, THAT 0116tfT TO /N(M_AS[ YOII~ <ASH FLOW. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, December 2, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Managc:r.................... .Anne Heroman Viewpoi111 Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnron Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. 
C..ommentaries, lcuers and Inside Columns prc~m the views of the authors, and not necessarily those 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough lcttNS is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541  Day Editor/Production . 631-5303  
Business Office 631-5313  Advertising 631-6900/8840  
Sport!> 631-4543  Systems/OTS 631-8839  
News/Photo 631-5323  Office Manager 631-7471  
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  
Dear Editor:  
Pieder Beeli asks in a letter to  
the editor (The Observer, Nov.  
11 ), "Does Christian baggage  
weigh down a true evolution­ 
ist?" He answers that belief in  
evolution is unethical, since it  
promotes racism. Beeli's letter  
does nothing to discredit the  
idea of evolution, while it dis­ 
plays and thereby promotes  
racist thinking.  
!lis letter promotes racist  
thinking, because it does not  
say what is wrong with the  
racist views themselves. Beeli  
does not even faintly suggest  
that he may know what is  
wrong with the racist views he  
uses against the idea of evolu­ 
tion.  
His use of racism to discredit  
evolution is based on a wrong­ 
headed notion of evolution.  
There may be several mecha­ 
nisms for evolution, but the  
most important one is natural  
selection. Natural selection is  
the selection by the environ­ 
ment of individuals who possess  happens,· would anyone think  
a survival or reproductive  we were better adapted to life  
advantage. Extinction, a difl'er­ on earth than dinosaurs?  
ent but related concept, occurs  Dinosaurs at least did not cause  
when none of the individuals in  their own destruction.  
a spncies possess traits neces­ Therefore, ~hen Beeli speaks  
sary for survival and reproduc­ of recent divisions in the human  
tion in a changed environment.  family tree and suggests that  
There is no point in trying to  we might think evolution  
place a positive value on  implies that one branch is bet­ 
presently existing species or  ter then another, he is wrong.  
individuals, because they are  According to the idea of evo­ 
not necessarily better than  lution the different races of  
some that have gone extinct.  varieties of human beings have  
For instance, on the one hand,  a common ancestor, and this  
dinosaurs existed on earth for  ancestor probably lived in  
160 million years, while hu­ Africa. Yet this does not mean  
mans have only been here for  that present day Africans are  
three million years.  evolution's misbegotten chil­ 
It is quite possible that our  dren. Instead, it means that we  
big brains will lead to our own  are all related to each other.  
destruction before 157 million  Such kinship defies anyone to  
years pass. If this destru~tion  be a racist.  


Part of Beeli's argument tare·· tile differing levels of techno :­gy in other cultures as evide c"e for differing levels of intelli­gence among the varieties of people. The problem with this assumption is that it conceives the development of technology as the sole function of human intellect. There are many other areas of human intellectual effort. Cultural achievements such as the development of music, art, and an overall con­ception of the world combining empirical knowledge and val­ues (i.e., religion and philoso­phy) are examples of human endeavor requiring high intelli­gence. These activities are pur­sued with vigor in all indige­nous human cultures, except for a very few that are unable to support people whose prima­ry job is to think. 
Be.eli should delve into the antlttopology text he criticizes and learn that technology is itself largely a cultural phe­nomenon, since its existence and form is dependent on how it fits with the values prescribed in a culture. 
Here, at Notre Dame, we know too little about other cul­tures, especially Africa. It might surprise people to learn that the Bantu in central Africa had Chinese pottery 100 years before the Portuguese did. This indicates the early existence of trade with the far East.. Also, the same people had an indige­nous iron smelting technology by the 7th century BC. Beeli's letter displays ignorance of the technological and cultural achievements of other societies by assuming that anyone would believe that distinct forms of technology in different societies imply different levels of intelli­gence. 
Beeli criticizes evolution by calling it a racist doctrine. However, what he is actually criticizing is a poor conception of evolution in conjunction with his own assumption that the sole function of intellect is to produce technology. This as­sumption about intelligence is itself racism through ignorance, since it ignores the cultural achievements of people in other societies. Also, he lacks knowl­edge of the actual technological achievements of so-called prim­itive societies. In trying to defeat evolution, he wages a war that does far more damage than the idea of evolution, even in his imagination, could do. 
ROBERT MARTIN 
Adjunct Professor Philosophy Department 
MIFFED? SUBMIT. 
letters poems cartoons 


DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

' Hands are the heart's landscape.' 
Pope John Paul II 

~--------------------------------------------------~-----·----------------------------~------------------------~ 
Thursday, December 2, 1992 page 11
VIEWPOINT 
Readers, take responsibility 
when drinking: don't driveDear Editor: 
I am compelled to write in re­sponse to Nicholas Perdiew's Dear Editor: saves lives. Rita [allegedly]letter headlined "Advertisement We are writing in response to broke the law and wasn'tfairly questions 'whole truth"' P. James Scheetz's letter (The responsible, and we lost a dear(The Observer, Nov. 23).. 
Observer, Nov. 22). Is he seri­friend. Now we ask John Rita
Perdiew reacts to Father 
ous? A reflective jacket would to take responsibility for whatMalloy's attack on the CODOH have prevented Mara Fox's he has done. Our purpose here ad by asking for an "open de­death? is not simply to attack Johnbate on the legitimacy of all the We were always taught in Rita. Anyone who drives drunk facts" printed in the ad. ~ have grade school that bright col­or allows another to do so mustonly one question for Perdiew: ored clothing was equally ac­deal with the consequences. 
Were you absent when World ceptable, and Mara Fox was The fault is not placed solely War Two was discussed in high wearing a white coat that night. upon Rita. He had otherschool? 
in January of 1991. events that took place there. Before hypothesizing about friends in the car with him who Perdiew says that he hopes Given the historical record, in However, by questioning the the causes of Mara's death you were aware that he had beenthat Malloy was not trying to conjunction with the stand of legitimacy of the Holocaust first should learn the facts. drinking.
"spite" the twenty-two percent the courts, I am clueless as to museum and its exhibits, that is The fact is, John Rita was Once again the issue behindof the population who doubt the what sort of "open debate on exactly what this ad is attempt­drunk. Drinking and driving is Mara Fox's death is drunk driv­Holocaust story. I sincerely the facts" we could have. One ing to do. the number one issue concern­ing. Over a dozen innocentdoubt that this was Malloy's cannot debate that which is a What the CODOH, and ing Mara's death. people fell victim to drinking
intention. However, if that 
set fact. To do otherwise would Perdiew have forgotten is that As for Rita, we feel pity for and driving over the past three twenty-two percent happens to be like debating whether there is no first person account the man, but cannot support years in this area alone. Wefeel that it has been spited, you Perdiew is actually a male. of the gas showers simply be­anyone who knowingly drives ask that those who read thiswon't see me feeling sorry for Clearly he is, therefore, what is cause if you took one-you drunk. If society stopped plac­letter take responsibility forits members. 
there to discuss? died. If the gassing never hap­ing so much concern on the "it their actions the next time theyTo deny that the Holocaust pened, where did all those who could have been anybody" are out drinking. 
ever happened is an act of lu­did "take a shower" go? Did hypothesis and directed more If we happen to see Mr. 
nacy. Are we to ignore the sto­'Given the histori­they all simply vanish from the attention on responsibility, then Scheetz on campus, we will askries told and written by the sur­cal record ... I am planet? If they did not die, why we would not have to worry him to please pull out thevivors and the liberators of the would they desert their loved about wearing reflective jackets reflective jacket he bought atcamps? To do so is to turn our clueless as to what ones? Moreover, they looked over our white coats. one of those fine sporting goods backs on the lessons of history. 
sort of 'open debate on like ordinary showers, so the If you break the law, then you stores. I'm sure he keeps itEven courts in this country Nazi's could say that they were deserve to be punished. Mara handy at all times in case of anhave accepted the Holocaust as the facts' we could simply "de-icing" the prisoners. Fox was killed because John emergency.
historical fact. In the case 
have.' The bodies, the clothes and Rita drove drunk [Rita is inno­
Mermelstein v. Institute for 
other items made from the skin cent until proven guilty-Ed.]. REBECCA HINCK 
Historical Review, a Los 
Moreover, if I somehow had a and hair of dead Jews, the ac­Walking on the wrong side of JENNIFER RAMIREZ Angeles County Superior Court poll that said that 22 percent of counts of the survivors-these the road (we repeat, side of the KATHY POLICY 
Judge ruled that "judicial 
the student body felt that he all more than make up for the road) is not an issue. PAULA SHANNONnotice of the fact that Jews was a she, does that put his lack of a first hand account of Abiding by the law and taking Freshmen 
were gassed to death at 
gender in doubt? Of course the "showers" at Auschwitz. responsibility for your actions Lyons Hall Auschwitz concentration Camp not. Their lack of knowledge as I commend Malloy and Jeff
in Poland and that the 
to Perdiew's gender does not Monberg for pointing out the
Holocaust is not reasonably 
suddenly mean that it is a topic hatred and anti-Semitism thatsubject to dispute." (For your in need of further exploration. exists in such an ad. As for Mr.
information, judicial notice 
As to the ad itself, Perdiew Perdiew and the twenty-twomeans the knowledge of certain 
states that the ad does not percent that he mentions,
facts which judges and jurors actually deny the Holocaust or maybe they should go take may properly take and act on that gassing actually took place. another look at their history
without proof, because they Apparently, Perdiew has not books.
already know them.) 
heard of "reading between theJudge Stephen O'Neil of the lines." Yes, it is true that the MATTHEW SCHECHTERL.A. Superior court again took ad does not come right out and Graduate Stduem in Lawjudicial notice of the Holocaust 
deny the Holocaust, or the Off-Campus 

Cavanaugh an example of dysfunctional Notre Dame family 
Dear Editor: 
As I sit in my room, my eyes pass over the accumulation of two and one half years of mem­ories. The cracked pitcher, the couch we found outside of Cavanaugh at the beginning of my freshman year, and a morass of pictures which dis­tinguish our room as part of the Cavanaugh Hall family. 
Upon entering the university, we were told that Cavanaugh would be our home for the next four years, a place to study, to build friendships and to grow. Apparently, the university for­got to inform us that this would be a dysfunctional family. 
In an impersonal letter which arrived Wednesday night the residents of Cavanaugh Hall were informed that our home would be converted (castrated for some) to a female hall next year by Patricia O'Hara. 
Noting the university quota of 45 percent women and a gen­der blind admissions policy (gender blind and admissions by sex, what doesn't mix, Although I certainly do not see the university lopping off the basketball hoop, its special meaning will be lost on the blind eyes of a group of quotas. And, who will tell the families of our esteemed brethren? 

Other traditions will be lost forever-'Naughfest, the Winter Cookout, the Undy 500, Cavanaugh security at pep ral­lies, or even a pickup game on the court the Jeff Heillert, Andy Sowder and over 60 years of 'Naughmen have built. 
Regrettably, the most dis­turbing problem I find with the whole process is that we are being regarded a:s nothing more than beds. Quoted from our eviction notice: "with the con­version of Cavanaugh, there will be sufficient beds to stabi­lize female enrollment." Cavanaugh Hall is one hell of a lot more than 236 beds. It is our home! 
Looking back, my home has 
provided me many memories ­
swatting Ray Griggs, cannon­
balls in the reflecting pool, all 

here?), 0 'Hara stated that marred by the eagerness of tion of spirit and tradition, one died during his senior year. His night poker games, and the in­despite numerous possible female friends ready to transfer that has been rendered impo­memory and spirit have famous hairy buffalo. They housing configurations (all of into Cavanaugh, emphasizing tent by the university. enabled several students each may not be the things that ­
which are top secret and the aura which "Naughmen" The Cavanaugh Hall Play, the year a chance to continue their dreams are made of, but they unavailable to an "ignorant" have given to our home. longest running _and most suc­education through funds gar­are special to me. student body), Cavanaugh was Instead of reveling in our tra­cessful hall plliy on campus, nered by the play. It seems memories are all chosen. Apparently, the only dition and history we are ironi­will grace the floor of Now, though Andy's spirit that we will have left, not our "blind" people in this equation cally being expelled from our Washington hall for the final and memory will remain, this dreams. So, when somebody were the committee members. home by a Catholic university time this January. The play opportunity will be lost. says that dreams don't come 
Still, the outpouring of conso­as if we were Palestinians in was established in 1981 as a Likewise, the Jeff Heillert true, tell them about Rudy. 
the Israeli state. way to fund the Andy Sowder Memorial Basketball Just don't tell them what hap­
lation has been amazing. Numerous friends have stopped Granted, all dorms are special Memorial to provide scholar­Tournament, held in honor of pened to Cavanaugh Hall. by to express their regret for to their residents, but ships for needy students. Andy another fallen brother on a JOHN RUSKUSKY 
court built in cooperation with Junior
our unfortunate situation. Still, Cavanaugh is a home to more was a former dorm president of this empathy is generally than just students, it is a bas-Cavanaugh who regrettably his parents, will be destroyed. Cavanaugh Hall 
ACCENT 
page 12 December 2, 1993 
HOME ENTERTAINMENT 
SOUNDS OF MUSIC ROB ADAMS 
New Kingdom fascinates through lyrics of destitution 
Sebastian and Nosaj, the two members of New Kingdom, met in Brooklyn, New York, while at Canal Jeans in 1987, both dis­satisfied with their minimum wage jobs. They began to hang out and write music together, fusing their myriad of influ­ences. While Nosaj's favorite artist of all time is Curtis Mayfield, Sebastian grew up on the hardcore punk scene of New York City's Lower East Side. 
Rap music was expand­pleting three more songs in the UK, New Kingdom became homesick and returned to Brooklyn, where they added the finishing touches. 
"We didn't even believe it was finally finished," says Nosaj, "so we would just sit at home listening to it, just digging it." 
With Heavy Load, New Kingdom has brought under­ground hip-hop to a higher and more frightening level. Bass 
chops twist and turn 

ing rapidly as New around the speaker, Kingdom came up, psychedelic funk which only helped causes a lazy them gain accep­mode of haphaz­tance into the 1. Pear1 Jam ard listening, industry for the Nosaj's vocal chaotic sounds stylings sound they were cre­as if they have
@)
ating. been placed in After taking a a blender, and
2. Meatloaf forced hiatus 3. Common Thread · the lyrics 
midway through 4. Too Short describe person­their first demo due 5. Mariah Carey ality characteristics 
to financial troubles, New Kingdom was signed to Gee Street Records (the label which also hosts the Stereo MC's and PM Dawn) in the win­ter of 1992 after which they immediately began work on Heavy Load, the debut CD. 

Working out of Brooklyn inside their home studio led to a move across the Atlantic to ' London for a much-needed change of scenery. After com-
SCREEN SCENE 
which are usual pre­requisites to insanity. 
"If there's a theme through­out the album it's letting it loose. Going all out and being yourself," explains Nosaj. 
"Good Times" booms as the opening track to Heavy Load with its bouncy drum beat, some space-age samples, and a continual bass riff which rises and falls in tone like an ocean wave on a calm afternoon; Nosaj's vocals, meanwhile, are crusty and hoarse, as he lists a summary of his existentialist , 

philosophies. 

"Standing on the corner/ 
Drinking nitroglycerin/ 
Unmodel citizen! Cuz we deny 
listening" raps Nosaj in the first 
verse of "Calico Cats," a haunt­
ing tale of living in complete 
destitution resulting in delu­
sions of extreme grandeur. 

By far the strongest track on 
the CD, a guitar twangs, the 
bass thumps, percussion goes 
through numerous changes of 
pace, and vocal samples are 
looped into the background 
throughout "Calico Cats." 
Nosaj's eerie vocals reverberate 
through the fascinating usage ·of an echo chamber. 
A jazzy saxophone sample 
opens "Frontman" in which 
Nosaj digs in and lets loose with 
all the intensity he has. The 
product is a lazy ride through 
Nosaj's claustrophobic neigh­
borhood in the middle of which 
he asks, "How's your world?/ 
Need a lift?/ Come to daddy/ 
Take a hit." 

Sporadic taps at a tamborine 
complement the old school 
drum beat, and a bass rhythm 
reminiscent of Isaac Hayes, sur­
round Nosaj's distorted voice on 
the nightmarish "Headhunter." 
It is through other equally 
The Top Guns 
Contemporary movies on video cassette 
can be watched twice over 

mahcwus tracks such as "Mad Mad World," "Mama and Papa," and "Cheap Thrills" that New Kingdom expose their true genius at writing lyrics of rebel­lion and anger. Their ghetto microcosm is completely revealed and New Kingdom brings themselves to an area never exploited this well in hip­hop. 
The words "Parents, pigs, and preachers" are moaned devilishly as the song "Mars" opens, which suddenly slams and incorporates a terrifying organ sample along with Nosaj's clever, careful lyrics, sounding as if he has crept up and is standing right behind the speakers, to mesh with a high-
Somewhere in your room, beneath a pile of clothes and books perhaps, is a videocas­sette -the videocassette. The one you've played at a bare minimum, say, a hundred times. 
That videocassette, tucked away in the confines of your room, might not even be your "favorite" movie. It is, howev­er, the movie you feel like you can watch over and over with­out growing tired of it. For my 
THE 
BREAKFAST 
CLUB 
mother it's Doctor Zhivago. For one of my friends it'sThe Natural . For my roommate it's Goodfellas . For a whole sec­tion in my dorm it's A Few Good Men. In more than one dorm, Top Gun , plays at least once in the course of a weekend. 

Everybody has a movie they should own on videocassette, if they don't already. You know, the one you've rented enough to have paid for at least three times the purchase cost of your own personal copy. 
What makes a movie tolera­ble even after the first few viewings? Since everyone has different tastes, the answer to the question varies. Some peo­ple say the key to a film that can be viewed repeatedly is a technically well done and well acted piece. A film worth sitting through again and again is Raging Bull . Conclusion: cou­ple the brilliance of Martin Scorsese's direction with Hobert DeNiro's acting and you get a good product that stands up to numerous screenings. 
For other people, the "laugh factor" plays a starring role in determining whether or not a film will be seen again and again. Few people, myself included, can resist the tempta­tion of watching Monty Python's Holy Grail for the hundreth time. I find the "cata­pulted cow scene" laughing­out-loud funny every single screening. Conclusion: if it's really humorous once, it may well be funny twenty times .... or more. 
Still other people look for strong emotional content in a film as a criteria for repeated viewing. One of my friends can watch Dead Poets Society again and again. He especially likes to watch the "Carpe Diem" scene in which Robin Williams speaks about the photographs of past students and points out the brevity of life. Conclusion: films with strong emotional content strike a chord with viewers and on-screen drama or art imitates the off-screen world of life. 
Finally, I thought I would sug­gest other movies on video cas­sette that have been suggested to me for repeated viewing: Aladdin •Better Off Dead•The Breakfast Club•Doctor Zhivago 
•Ferris 
Bueller's Day Off•Fletch•The Godfather 

•Goodfellas 
•The Graduate 

•Grease•High 
Noon •Hoosiers 

•It's 
a Wonderful Life •L.A. Story •Lethal Weapon 

•National 
Lampoons Vacation 

•The 
Natural •The Princess Bride •Raiders of the Lost Ark 

•Rocky 
•The Searchers •Sixteen Candles•Star Wars •Take the 


Money  and  Run  •The  
Untouchables• Vertigo • When  
Harry Met Sally  

The favorite of all: the movie that I watch repeatedly, some­



Courtesy Island Records 
pitched guitar sample and bass which feels like it weighs two tons. 
Heavy Load is a fantastic por­trayal of a young man's urban experience, steering clear of almost all overused hip-hop cliches. With their interesting references to 70's culture, anmazingly clear metaphors, and low-scale, deep grooves, New Kingdom has created a virtual gift from the hip-hop community. 
"I just wanna make music for the rest of my life and we have to do it for free, that's what we will have to do. We won't put out something we would not buy ourselves. That's the con­cept," says Nosaj. 
JON THORN 

times even rewinding it and playing it again in the same sit­ting, is Rain Man . Technically, it's a well directed film and well acted. 
Laughs don't get stale after the first few viewings of this film. Strong emotional content in the film makes the message of the film just as vibrant and touching after twenty screen­ings as the first. Would I watch Rain Man again and again? In the words of Haymond (Dustin lloff-man),"Yeah, Definitely. Yeah." 
Some suggestions were offered by The Observer Staff. 
,.._------------------------~----~ ------­
Thursday, December 2, 1993 The Observer· COLLEGE BASKETBALL page 13 
No.1 Kentucky wins second; Carolina squeaks by 
Associated Press Rhodes, making 9-of-13 shots, points at intermission, Stack­Michigan beat Tulane Wednes­No. 6 Duke 78, led Kentucky with 21 points. house and Mcinnis each scored day night. 
The Citadel 63 

LEXINGTON, Ky. Rodney Dent added a career­six points in a 19-5 run that The Wolverines (3-0), playing 
DURHAM, N.C.

Tony Delk 
high 19 points, and Riddick tied gave the Tar Heels a 64-50 lead their second game in three Antonio Lang picked a perfect
scored six a career high with 16 as all 12 with 14:16 left. nights, took the lead midway time to play his best game. 
points during players on the Kentucky team The Rainbows handled North through the first half and led 
The 6-8 senior set career

a 22-4 run in reached the scoring column. Carolina's pressure fairly well the rest of the way. 
highs with 18 points and 12 re­

the first half Houston led Tennessee Tech in the opening half, but turned Freshman Jerald Honeycutt bounds as the No. 6 Blue Devils 
that carried with 19 points, followed by the ball over eight times in the led Tulane (1-1) with 22 points. 
overcame a subpar perfor­

No. 1 Ken­Carlos Floyd with 17 and Rob first 6 1/2 minutes of the second Honeycutt, who scored 27 in mance from All-America for­
tucky to a West 14. period and let the game slip Tulane's season-opener against 
ward Grant Hill and held off

115-77vic-. Kentucky made 41-of-66 shots away. Centenary, hit successive 3­
t r YRodnck Rhodes The Citadel Wednesday. 
for 62.1 percent in scoring the Another 8-0 spurt minutes pointers to give Tulane a 12-8 
"The guy that was the differ­Wednesday night over Ten­most points in Rick Pitino's four later stretched North Carolina's lead with 14:21 left in the first 

ence was Tony Lang," Duke

nessee Tech. seasons as coach. The Wildcats lead to 17 and the Tar Heels half. 
coach Mike Krzyzewski said.

Kentucky (2-0) went to its scored 32 points off 26 were never in danger from The Green Wave still led 16­"He played so well. Tony has
bench early and took the ball turnovers. there. 15 on a basket by Le Veldro been a stabilizing force in bothinside often in overpowering its Tennessee Tech hit 26-of-76 Stackhouse finished with 17 Simmons with 12:27 remaining. 
games."

smaller and overmatched op­shots for 34.2 percent. points and Eric Montross added But it was all Michigan after Duke (2-0) led 37-28 at half­ponent from the Ohio Valley No. 4 North Carolina 92, 15 for North Carolina. that as the Wolverines domi­time, but didn't ptit the game
Conference. Kentucky got 4 7 Jarinn Akana, who put on a 3-nated the first-half rebounding 
Hawaii 77 away until a 7-0 run in the final 
points from its bench and point shooting display, scored a 24-13, including a 17-7 edge on
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. minutes gave the Blue Devils a
blocked 12 shots. career-high 26 points for the defensive boards. 
Freshmen Jerry Stackouse 73-59lead.
Rodrick Rhodes started the Hawaii (0-4), off to its worst A basket by Rose gave Michi­
and Jeff Mcinnis led a spurt at Lang capped the spurt with
spurt with a layup at 17:38 to start since the 1987-88 season. gan a 17-16 with 12:06 left in
the start of the second half that two free throws. 
give Kentucky an 8-6 lead, and Akana's previous high was 22 the half and the Wolverines
sent No. 4 North Carolina past David Stevens and Reggie
Delk followed with another points against San Diego State pulled steadily away. Rose,
Hawaii 92-77 Wednesday night. Jones each scored 16 points to
layup. last January. Phil Handy added Jimmy King and Dugan Fife all
North Carolina. playing its lead The Citadel, which
After Jesse Nayadley scored 15 of his 20 points in the first hit 3-pointers a burst that saw
first game since falling from the dropped to 1-1.
on putback for Tennessee Tech half. Michigan open a 13-point lead. 
No. 1 ranking with a loss to "Their kids played extremely 
(0-1), Kentucky reeled off eight The Rainbows' zone def~nse The Green Wave went score­
Massachusetts in the Preseason hard," Krzyzewski said. "Every
straight points. and long-range shooting gave less for a 5:16 span before
NIT, had trouble with a Hawaii time we had a chance to break
Tennessee Tech's Maurice North Carolina trouble in the Chris Cameron made a basket
club that was outscored by a it open, they seemed to come
Houston slipped inside for a opening half as Hawaii showed with 3 seconds left to cut Michi­
combined 117 points in three back with a defensive play or a
layup, but Delk came back with no ills effects of traveling more gan's lead to 38-27 at halftime.
losses in the Great Alaska 3-point shot. They put pressure
a dunk, Travis Ford and Jeff than 6,000 miles in the past Tulane, trailing by 14, got 5
Shootout. on us the whole game." 
Sheppard sank 3-pointers and two weeks. points from Rayshard Allen in a
The Tar Heels (4-1) also lost The smaller Bulldogs came to
Andre Riddick hit a layup to in­Hawaii led for most of the 10-2 second-half spurt that cut
point guard Derrick Phelps 5 Cameron Indoor Stadium intent
crease Kentucky's margin to game's first 10 minutes as the the deficit to 60-54 with 9:34
1/2 minutes into the game with on holding down Hill. 
28-10 at 11:13. score changed hands 10 times. left. 
a sprained right ankle. Without The Citadel tried a variety of
Tennessee Tech got no closer No. 5 Michigan 84, But Rose sank two free
the senior floor leader, who has defenses against Hill, who
than 14 the rest of the game, throws, Howard hit a basket
been injury prone in his career, Tulane 69 made only 5-of-15 shots from
the last time at 38-24 on and two free throws, and the
the Tar Heels struggled on ANN ARBOR, Mich. the floor. Hill finished with 15
Lorenzo Coleman's layup with Wolverines were in front 66-54
offense in the opening half. Jalen Rose scored 28 points points and Cherokee Parks
5:24 Left in the half. Kentucky and back in control. 
After leading by only three and Juwan Howard 21 as No. 5 added 17. 
led 60-31 at the break. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Found: a Casio graphing RIDERS needed to Quad cities, Portable electronic typewriter-word­AUDITIONS AUDITIONS BEER GAMES II (the book) calculator in the student computer Iowa Univ, Des Moines, ISU processor, memory card, extras. for SMC musical play GREAT GIFT order NOW receive
NOTICES 
lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day 1213 x2163 Rudy $100. Gabor, 233-8745. QUILTERS FREE Intellectual Beer Games. November 11 . Call Jarrad x4186 Offensive Jokes! Send $8 HOLIDAY CARD ACTION 1993 Moving sale: bookshelves $5, All female actors, dancers. singers cash/check ($7+$1 S&H) 
FOR RENT
sponsered by AMNESTY INTER· swiveling chair $3, anmchair $5, Mon., Dec. 6 Shipped w!in 48 hrs NATIONAL on desk $10, b/w TV $15. Gabor, 233· Tues. Dec. 7 COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: Sunday. Dec. 5. Begins at 6:30 with Furnished House: jan-dec 1994.3 8745. 7p.m. POBOX2456 a vigil at STONEHENGE; writing W/IN THE LAST THREE MOS. bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st. Regina Room 16, SMC AMHERST, MA 01004 begins at 7:00 at the esc with a GOLD RING W/ SM OPAL CIRCLE walk to ND. Wash!dryr, dishwashr, BAHAMA · CRUISE special guest speaker. AND GOLD TRI. SQUIGGLY 2 car garage, 600/mo + util. Show 5 Days 4 niles $288/couple 
MY PARENTS GAVE THIS TO ME by appt. 233-6523. Underbooked 10-9 Mon-Fri FOR APPT. CALL 284-4640 Victor Rocks on 4 peace. I'm bilin· 
FOR MY BIRTHDAY AND ITS MY 10-5 Sa\407-648·4480 ext. 607 Please bring song (with music) gual. Typing DESIGN. PLEASE RETURN. FURNISHED 8 BEDROOM HOME Monologues provided. 287-4082 X 4098 1 MILE NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT 1 way Chi-Mia (fly) 234·5176 Kevin 
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS Adoption: the placement of your PROLIFE LOST: Silver chain with round ball FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, child may be the most precious gift CHRISTMAS CARDS
TICKETS

Bulletin for Invitational Interviews locke\ that holds six photos. KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. you could make. ND alum wants to TONIGHT January 24 -February 4 Extreme sentimental value. If 272-0615. be mom through your gift. DINING HALL 
found, please call 273-5251. Notre Dame Bowl Tickets Professional couple, country home, $5/pkg. 10 Submit resumes in Career and BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES· For Sale with lots of love and faith. Strictly PROCEEDS BENEFIT Placement Services by Dec. 8. ND/SMC EVENTS (317) 879-8497 legal. Call Tricia and Jim WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Gold earring found in front of NOH (219) 291-7153 1-800-820-1139. ALSO SIGN UP FOR Coming Soon ... the Alumni Assoc. on Wed. 1211. Call Matt at x1430 MARCH FOR LIFE & Senior Class bring you ... w/ description. ROOMMATE NEEDED 4 Michael Bolton Tix on New ND/SMC RTL 
Spr. Sem. Year's Eve at Chicago-great seats· Quality Copies, Quickly "The Great Taste of South Bend" Trtle Crk Twnhs $100 ea.-John x1380 THE COPY SHOP
WANTED
Saturday, December 4, 1993 271-1399 LaFortune Student Center congrats. LC and Turtle II 
7:30 PM Senior Bar 631-COPY Tickets include food and D.J. Travel Abroad and Work. Make up Lodging -Riverfront • Private 
PERSONAL
$6 ea. $10 couple to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching 257-9101 Look for tickets & details at LaF basic conversational English ADOPTION: ND grad and wife, The man from the southern grass Info. Desk. Must be 21 to partici­abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. 2, 3. 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES MARCH FOR LIFE happily married for eight years, patch says a special hello to the pate. Benefits South Bend Center Korea. Many employers provide NEAR ND FRIDAY, January 21 wish to adopt a baby. We offer a Jersey Rose (PE). Please don't go for the Homeless. room & board + other benefits. No AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR DC TRIP warm, loving home with kindness to England!l!lll!! Love, BS 
teaching background or Asian lan· 232-2595 If interested call ND Right to Life and patience from a full-time mom guages required. For more informa­631·9006 and devoted dad. Please call 
ILOST & FOUND I 
tion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 South Haven Ml gift idea: beach Wendy and Tim at 1-800-440-8588 hang in there Bean. front condo. sleeps 6, fireplace, ski· SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS any1ime · 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. ing, weekly-monthly (219)234-~626 I WOULD GIVE MY RIGHT ARM EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE Bulletin for Invitational Interviews Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on TO ANYONE WHO FOUND MY WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, January 24 • February 4 Luxury Yachts Seven day Island To the Pasquerilla West girlies of
FOR SALE
NOTRE DAME WATCH WITHIN EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin 4A-Howdy! I wish us all a great • THE LAST THREE WEEKS. It is LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY Submit resumes in Career and & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. and well deserved weekendll gold with black leather bands, and HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER Woodbridge condo for sale, near Placement Services by Dec. 8. 1/800·999-SAIL has the interlocking ND in the mid· SEASONS. LISTING SERVICE! Notre Dame. ideal for student. (7245) die. Call Jim x3584 CALL (919)929-4398 EXT31 Owner financing available $42,500. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
SMITH ZEISZ CO. 272-5444. Kevin $ SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS JESSLYN PETERSON: 
Lost a gold and pearl pin Zeisz. Between the Football Stadium and BEACH Springbreak Promoter. NEED CHRISTMAS CASH? Bulletin for Invitational Interviews GOOD LUCK THIS WEEKEND! LaFortune via O'Shag and Small or large groups. FREE trips FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings, January 24 • February 4 ALTHOUGH WE CAN'T BE -Neuwland Science. and CASH. Call CMI1-80Q-423· necklaces. and bracelets all at high· STOP BY THE THERE, WE SUPPORT YOUI 
5264. ly reasonable prices. Great MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Submit resumes in Career and YOU'RE AWESOME!!I!II!IIIIIIII!IIII If found. please call631-5243. Christmas gilts! Call Jessica at 4· Placement Services by Dec. 8. 
Need a Ride to Philly/Central NJ for 2963 1% INTEREST LOVE, Lost black Panasonic walkman X-mas on Fri. 17!1 Call Meg at $10-$250 Get your Christmas shopping 4A next to Allegro Cafe -downstairs La x2773. 30 DAYS done early-take the Fortune on Monday midnight. 1980 Olds Toronado, transmission WINDY CITY SHUTTLE Please contact desperate owner at SPRING BREAK! Sunchase Tours rebuilt, runs great, need minor body MON.-FRI. 11:30·12:30 to Chicago this 2257. If you don't want to return the is seeking ambitious sales reps to work, $500. Tel: 4-4536 NEXT TO INFO DESK Saturday, Dec. 4 for only $10. hello. 
walkman, at least please!!! return promote Spring Break '94! Earn Tickets and information available the CASSETTE. It's essential for cash and free trips. Call today: PAIR OF BOSE SPEAKERS. $300. $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ at the LaFortune Information Desk ...now don'ttry to tell me you read this guy's survival. 1-800-SUNCHASE. 272-3024 AFTER 4 PM. $ 631-8128. any1hing into that one, andy 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 2,1993 
Two former Navy stars killed in shooting 
By BRIGITTE GREENBERG Associated Press 
CORONADO, Calif. 

Alton Grizzard, the former star quarterback for Navy, and a former Navy track star were shot to death Wednesday by a fellow officer. The gunman then fatally turned the gun Oil himself. 
Authorities said the killings took place at the U.S. Naval Amphibious Base. The gun­man. not immediately identi­fied. shot Grizzard, 24, and Kerry O'Neill, 21, at 1:45 a.m. PST in O'Neill's room in the baso bachelor officers' quar­ters. which houses men and women, said Scott Allen, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. 
There were no signs of a struggle or break-in at the room. said Coronado police Lt. Bill Abel. 
It was possible the three were involved in a love trian­gle, he said. All three died from head wounds. 
The Coronado base is on a peninsula across tho harbor from San Diego. About 7,000 people live on the base and the nearby North Island Naval Air Station. 
The amphibious base is headquarters to the Naval Spe­cial Warfare Command, which includes SEAL commando teams. 
Lt. j.g. Grizzard of Virginia 


PHIL 222 02 0405 PHIL 2S9 01 5362 
PHIL 264 03 5364 
ClASSES PHIL 519 01 5373 

THAT WILL PHYS 222L 03 4933 
REOPEN AT PSY 211A OJ 0269 
7:00P.M. PSY 3SO OJ 0685 
12/02/93 SOC 232 0 I 2050 

SOC 303 OJ 4\44 ACCf 232 03 4828 SOC 404 OJ 5470 ACCf 232 05 4831 THEO 200 01 2565 ACCf 232 06 4832 THEO 200 02 2723 ACCf 232 07 4833 THEO 224 0 I 5502 ACCf 476 01 0702 THEO 234 0 I 1620 ACCf 480 02 0744 THEO 254 0 I 2588 AMST HIE 01 49S8 THEO 260 0 I 0228 ARST 294S 01 0787 THEO 263 02 2856 CHEM 202 02 0962 THEO 269 01 5509 COTH 2o-l 0 I 4033 COTH 204 02 4626 CLOSED 
COTH 205 0 I 4035 COURSES 
COTH 205 02 4591 
ECON 225 01 1908 ACCf 231 01 4819 
ECON 340 01 4041 ACCf 231 03 4821 
ECON 460 01 4264 ACCf 232 03 4828 
ECON 462 01 5090 ACCf 232 05 4831 EDUC 20 IF 08 8408 ACCf 232 06 4832 EE 232L 03 4889 ACCf 232 07 4833 EE 242L 01 2531 ACCf 232 08 4834 ENGL 30 I 02 5665 ACCf 232 09 4835 ENGL 315C 01 4422 ACCf 232Z 02 4824 ENGL 316F 01 m2 ACCf 334 OJ 2110 ENGL 334 01 5120 ACCf 372 02 0684 ENGL 351 01 5122 ACCf 372 03 3238 ENGL 384C 01 5124 ACCf 475 0 I 3866 
ENGL 3920 01 5126 ACCf 476 01 0702 ENGL 489 01 5152 ACCf 476 02 1270 ENGL 4978 01 5159 ACCf 479 01 1780 FIN 231 05 3360 ACCf 480 02 0744 FIN 231 08 3093 ACCf 481 01 2559 FIN 361 01 3757 AFAM 258 OJ 4802 FIN 361 02 2305 AFAM 258 02 4805 FIN 370 03 2861 AFAM 306 0 I 4983 GOVf 342T 01 0755 AFAM 329 OJ 4611 HIST 22Tf 01 5247 AFAM 329 02 4613 HIST 337A 01 5251 AFAM 372 OJ 4097
-I liST 348A 01 4450 AFAM 384C OJ 4940 HIST 417A 01 S265 AFAM 389 0 I 4433 liPS 602 01 5721 AFAM 391 01 3975 LAW 635 01 1671 AFAM 419COI 4942 MARK 231 03 2854 AFAM 454 0 I 4064 MARK 231 OS 3029 AL 212 OJ 1988 MBA 648 01 4848 Al 212 03 1425 Ml 334 01 5310 AL 212 04 3059 Ml 406 01 5311 AL 212 13 0697 Ml 549 OJ 5329 AL 212 16 1754 MUS 228 OJ 5343 AL 212 18 2154 PHIL 201 07 2972 Al 212 23 1503 
Beach, Va., was Navy's quar­terback from 1987 to 1990. He was the school's all-time career total offense leader with 5,666 yards rushing and passing. He was the fourth player in Navy history to rush for 2,000 yards. In his senior year, Grizzard set a record by completing 12 touchdown passes, and he passed 1,438 yards that year. 
"We are all shocked by the loss," said Navy coach George Chaump. "One of the greatest 
I've been around ­ not just as  
a player but as a  human be­ 
ing."  

O'Neill, a Navy ensign from Kingston, Pa., had 12 varsity letters, four for cross-country running, four for indoor track and four in track and field. 
She held three academy records. She had the fastest women's time on the cross­country course. The second was an indoor 5,000-meter record, and the third was an outdoor 5,000-meter record. 
The Naval Criminal Investigative Service was on the scene, as were homicide detectives from the Coronado Police Department. 

Grizzard and O'Neill died inside a sixth-floor, one-room flat. The gunman died of a head wound as he was being taken to an ambulance. 
Residents of the barracks re­ported being awakened by the sound of six or seven shots, Abel said. 

AL 212 25 1275 BIOS 250L 02 3343 AL 212 28 2125 BIOS 303 0 I 3026 Al 212 33 3618 BIOS 341 01 2171 Al 212 34 2576 BIOS 344L 01 2068 AMST 317E 01 4951 BIOS 344L 02 0141 AMST 342H 0 I 4985 BIOS 407L OJ 2655 AMST 343H 0 I 4986 BIOS 411L 01 2367 AMST 344H OJ 4987 BIOS 416 OJ 1223 AMST 347H 01 4989 CA.PP 253 01 0337 AMST 348H 0 I 4990 CA.PP 316 OJ 3406 AMST 349H OJ 49?1 CA.PP 331 01 3868 AMST 365E OJ 4952 CA.PP 361 OJ 2379 AMST 398E OJ 4954 CA.PP 485 OJ 5039 AMST 399E OJ 4955 CAPP 499B 01 1325 AMST 417E 01 4956 CE 235L OJ 2179 AMST 418E OJ 4959 CE 235L 02 30S5 AMST 431E 01 4958 CE 440 01 0515 AMST 458E 01 4960 CE 470 01 2437 AMST 491 01 4962 CHEG 32Tf OJ 5807 AMST 495E 0 I 4964 CHEG S56 01 2225 AMST 496E OJ 4965 CHEM 119L 01 3880 ANTH 328A 0 I 3921 CHEM 202 02 0962 ANTH 329 01 4610 CHEM 202 03 0809 ANTH 329 02 4615 CHEM 204 01 4030 ANTH 329A OJ 4970 CHEM 224L 07 4921 ANTH 330 01 2516 CHEM 248L 02 4924 ANTH 389 0 I 4434 CHEM 333L 01 4927 ANTH 403 OJ 4974 CHEM 333L 02 4928 ANTH 454 01 3988 CLAS 325 01 4043 ANTH 454A 0 I 3989 CLAS 427 OJ 4420 ARCH 244 OJ 3186 CLAS 442 0 I 2346 ARCH 444 02 2384 COMM 103 05 9705 ARCH 598E 0 I 1134 COMM 103 07 9707 ARHI 169 OJ 3773 COMM 103 09 9709 ARHI 252T 02 49?4 COMM 210 16 9716 ARHI 252T 03 4995 COMM 304 28 9728 ARHI 403 01 4997 COMM 4S4 40 9740 ARHI 488 01 4160 COTH 204 0 I 4033 ARST 134S OJ 1216 COTH 204 02 4626 ARST 150S OJ 0249 COTH 205 OJ 4035 ARST 212S OJ 1477 COTH 205 02 4591 ARST 2325 0 I 3068 COTH 301 01 5050 ARST 2425 01 2198 COTH 435 OJ 4665 ARST 2465 01 4000 COTH 476 01 50S7 ARST 294S OJ 0787 COTH 489 01 5059 ­ARST 326S 01 0732 CSE 221L 01 1191 BA 230 OJ 0196 CSE 221L 03 0441 
BA 230 02 0024 CSE 233 OJ 2255 
BA 230 06 1009 CSE 341 01 4877 
BA 230 07 1407 DESN IllS 02 3280 
BA 362 0 I 2822 DESN 2175 OJ 0837 
BA 363 02 1604 DESN 3305 OJ 5694 
BA 392 0 I 4839 ECON 123T 01 5061 
BA 392 02 4840 ECON 123T 02 5062 
BA 464 02 3842 ECON 123T 03 5063 
BA 490 02 0370 ECON 123T 04 5064 
BA 490 03 2571 ECON 224 01 3794 
BA 490 04 1499 ECON 224 02 1329 
Patriots still planning on staying 
By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
St. Louis' failure to get an NFL franchise won't change James Orthwein's plans to sell the Patriots or to keep building the team until he does. 
"It has no impact on the busi­ness plans," Patrick Forte, ex­ecutive vice president for foot­ball operations, said Wednes­day. "We put our plan in place last January and have every intention of fulfilling that." 
Orthwein doused speculation that he would keep the team and move it to St. Louis, where he has an interest in a domed stadium being built. At one point, he had a major interest in the expansion group in that city. 
'Tm sick of this NFL football business and the people that run it," Orthwein said Tuesday after the NFL chose Jack­sonville for an expansion fran­chise over St. Louis, Baltimore and Memphis. "I can't sell this team fast enough ... and I'm not moving to St. Louis." 
NFL president Neil Austrian said the league would not ap­prove a prospective new owner of the Patriots unless he agreed to keep the team in Boston. 

Foxboro is about 30 miles southwest of Boston. 
The Patriots are 1-10 but plan to be active in the veteran free agent market. Coach Bill Par­cells would like a long-term owner in place by Feb. 1, when teams can begin signing vet­eran free agents. 
Asked if a quick sale would help him sign free agents, Parcells said Wednesday, 'Tm not going to say that you're wrong to draw that conclusion but I'm not going to talk about it." 
However, Forte said the Patri­ots would follow plans put in place when Parcells was hired. 
1994-95 RA APPLICATIONS  
Are Now Available  
Office of Student Affairs  
315 Main Building  
Through Friday, January 14, 1994  
ECON 224T 01  S085  ENGL  483 OJ  4094  HIST  116T 07  5240  MATH 226T 01  3621  PHIL  201 04  0600  ROSP  IO.l  04  0?19  
ECON 224T 02  S086  ENGL  489 01  SIS2  HIST  227 0 I  5246  MATH 226T 03  ISI9  PHIL  201 OS  215S  ROSP  I03  OS  3043  
ECON 224T 03  S087  ENGL 489B 01  5153  HIST  22Tf OJ  S247  MATH 226T 06  3483  PHil  201 07  2972  ROSP  103  07  3028  
ECON 225  01  1908  ENGL  491A 01  5154  HIST  22Tf 02  5248  MATH 226T 08  3487  PHIL  201 08  1573  ROSP  231  02  0368  
ECON 225  02  2985  ENGL  492E OJ  5155  HIST  22Tf 03  5249  MATH 336  02  3770  PHIL  222 02  0405  ROSP  232  01  214S  
ECON 302  02  0425  ENGL  495GOJ  5158  HIST  22Tf 05  52SI  MBA  551 01  3046  PHIL  225 OJ  4188  ROSP  23S  01  3742  
ECON 303  OJ  0063  ENGL  497B OJ  5159  HIST  309 01  4061  MBA  562 01  0094  PHIL  227 OJ  0274  ROSP  236  01  1077  
ECON 303L 0 I  2469  ENGL  497E OJ  5800  HIST  309A OJ  4063  MBA  563 01  1964  PHIL  241 02  1621  ROSP  238  01  2744  
ECON 315  01  2283  ENGl  513 01  5162  HIST  337A 01  5254  MBA  602 OJ  4846  PHIL  244 01  2317  ROSP  310  01  S463  
ECON 340  OJ  4041  ENGL  545 01  5165  HIST  342A 01  3918  MBA  623 OJ  1886  PHIL  245 OJ  4073  ROSP  319  01  1332  
ECON 422  01  2241  FIN  231 02  1504  HIST  348A 01  4450  MBA  624 OJ  0114  PHIL  248 01  4514  ROSP  319  02  2483  
ECON 430  OJ  0178  FIN  231 03  1762  HIST  349A 01  4712  MBA  62S 01  3947  PHIL  253 01  5361  ROSP  329  0 I  3834  
ECON 456  OJ  0977  FIN  231 05  3360  HIST  359A OJ  4717  MBA  629 02  OSI2  PHIL  2S8  02  4804  ROSP  433  01  S730  
ECON 460  OJ  4264  FIN  231 07  3596  HIST  378A 0 I  5260  MBA  631 OJ  2261  PHIL  259 01  5362  ROSP  49S  01  5731  
ECON 462  01  5090  FIN  231 08  3093  HIST  391 01  5261  MBA  635 01  2151  PHIL  261 01  1752  ROSP  49?  01  0974  
ECON 487  OJ  0367  FIN  361 OJ  3757  HIST  403 0 I  4702  MBA  636 01  3146  PHIL  261 02  2451  RU  374  01  Sl89  
EDUC 201F 04  8404  FIN  361 02  2305  HIST  417A 01  5265  MBA  636 03  3198  PHIL  264 01  1419  sc  362  01  4784  
EDUC 201F 05  8405  FIN  361 03  2918  HIST  420 01  4399  MBA  636 04  0652  PHIL  264 02  5363  SOC  202  0 I  5466  
EDUC 201F 08  8408  FIN  361 06  1091  HIST  420A OJ  5266  MBA  637 01  3116  PHIL  264 03  5364  soc  220  01  1344  
EDUC 324  27  8427  FIN  370 01  1246  HIST  447A 01  S268  MBA  648 OJ  4848  PHIL  519 OJ  S373  SOC  232  0 I  2050  
EDUC 370  42  8442  FIN  370 03  2861  HIST  4S4  01  4065  MBA  672 OJ  1634  PHYS  221L 02  2994  soc  234  01  1936  
EE  232 01  4885  FIN  380 01  3635  HIST  454A 0 I  4066  MBA  675 OJ  4773  PHYS  222L 02  2555  soc  242  02  3856  
EE  232L 01  4887  FS  180 01  3301  HIST  460 0 I  3860  MBA  682 02  2569  PHYS  222L 03  4933  soc  302  01  2SI2  
EE  232L 02  4888  FS  180 02  3632  HIST  484 01  5271  MBA  697 02  5798  PHYS  222L 06  2514  soc  303  01  4144  
EE  232L 03  4889  FS  180 21  2088  HIST  490 OJ  5272  MGT  231 02  3285  PHYS  309 0 I  4237  soc  306  01  S467  
EE  242L 01  2531  FS  180 26  2681  HIST  494 01  S276  MGT  231 04  1853  PHYS  331l Ot  4934  soc  346  01  4081  
EE  242L 02  1098  GE  102 02  0404  HIST  S04 01  3861  MGT  231A 01  2167  PLS  282 02  0772  soc  374  01  S468  
EE  354L OJ  0933  GE  313 01  OS44  liPS  415E OJ  4582  MGT  240 OJ  2150  PLS  282 03  2480  soc  404  01  S470  
EE  354L 02  2605  GE  410 01  4095  liPS  491A 01  4300  MGT  240 02  3702  PSY  211A 01  0269  soc  419  01  4362  
EE  498H 01  4507  GEOS  242L 02  4870  liPS  SISE OJ  4581  MGT  240 05  16S9  PSY  341 01  2418  soc  424  01  4798  
ENGL  301 01  0758  GEOS  362 OJ  4785  liPS  543 01  4133  MGT  355 OJ  1629  PSY  341 02  2292  soc  460  01  5473  
ENGL  301 02  5665  GOVf 316F OJ  4588  liPS  566 OJ  4411  MGT  472 0 I  2064  PSY  342 01  1136  STV  4S4  01  3990  
ENGL  302 01  5102  GOVf 340T 02  4675  liPS  590 01  5306  MGT  497 01  1724  PSY  342 02  0551  THEO 200  01  2565  
ENGL  305B OJ  5103  GOVf 341  02  5191  liPS  602 01  5721  MGT  499 0 I  4775  PSY  350 01  068S  THEO 200  02  2723  
ENGL  310 02  5105  GOVf 342T 01  0755  lAW  615C 01  0077  Ml  309 01  4062  PSY  352 01  1038  THEO 200  OS  2907  
ENGL  311 02  SI07  GOVf 342T 02  0703  LAW  631E 01  3147  Ml  334 01  5310  PSY  356 0 I  0585  THEO 200  09  280S  
ENGL  312 02  5109  GOVf 342T 03  2765  lAW  631F OJ  2383  Ml  403 01  4701  PSY  361 01  5390  THEO 200  18  3423  
ENGL  314A OJ  4042  GO'fi' 343T 04  1424  LAW  631G OJ  0041  Ml  406 OJ  5311  PSY  396A 01  5391  THEO 224  01  5S02  
ENGL  315C OJ  4422  GOVf 343T 05  2942  LAW  631H OJ  2672  Ml  429 OJ  5313  PSY  405 01  5419  THEO 234  01  1620  
ENGL  316F 01  5112  GOVf 343T 06  1430  lAW  635 01  1671  Ml  435 OJ  5315  PSY  453 OJ  S420  THEO 243  02  1039  
ENGL  316G OJ  5113  GOVf 343T 07  2375  LAW  676 01  1220  Ml  494 0 I  5320  PSY  479 01  5424  THEO 249  0 I  3337  
ENGL  325 01  5119  GOVf 343T 08  1547  LAW  676A 0 I  2435  Ml  523 01  5323  PSY  487B 0 I  S427  THEO 252  01  0047  
ENGL  334 01  5120  GOVf 413  OJ  2609  LAW  695 01  3128  Ml  531 Ot  5326  PSY  565 OJ  5433  THEO 2S4  01  2S88  
ENGL  351 01  5122  GOVf 424  OJ  3368  LAW  69S 02  3790  Ml  533 01  5327  RLST  213 20  9S20  THEO 255  02  S507  
ENGL  373 OJ  5123  GOVf 454  OJ  5204  LAW  695 03  3010  Ml  549 0 I  5329  RLST  213 22  9522  THEO 256  01  139?  
ENGL 384C 01  5124  GOVf 492B 01  5209  LAW  69S 04  0632  Ml  674 01  5341  RLST  230 24  9524  TH EO 260  0 I  0228  
ENGL 392B 01  5125  GOVf 492E 01  5211  lAW  695 05  1211  MSA  574 0 I  5788  RLST  242 28  9528  TH EO 263  0 I  56S9  
ENGL  392001  5126  Govr 49S  01  S714  LAW  695 06  2140  MSCI  212 02  2028  RLST  458 43  9S43  THEO 263  02  28S6  
ENGl  393 OJ  5127  GSC  242 01  4477  MARK 231  02  3836  MSCI  312 03  2100  ROFR  103 04  2411  THEO 269  01  5S09  
ENGL  413A OJ  4421  GSC  282 OJ  5177  MARK 231  03  28S4  MUS  222 01  3106  ROFR  231 01  3269  THEO 281  01  410S  
ENGL  415E OJ  4580  GSC  342 01  3277  MARK 231  04  0826  MUS  223 0 I  3247  ROFR  241 OJ  1884  THEO 282  01  5510  
ENGL  419B OJ  5133  GSC  383 OJ  5710  MARK 231  OS  3029  MUS  225 OJ  2041  ROFR  310 01  2370  THEO 287  0 I  264S  
ENGl  434 OJ  5137  GSC  419C 01  5182  MARK 231  06  2015  MUS  226 01  1109  ROFR  312 OJ  0448  THEO 290  01  2560  
ENGL  43SA OJ  5139  GSC  424 OJ  4799  MARK 374  01  0911  MUS  228 01  5343  ROFR  429 OJ  5451  THEO 405  01  4398  
ENGl  440MOI  5791  GSC  489 OJ  5186  MARK 381  0 I  3366  MUS  230 01  1655  ROIT  106 OJ  3718  THTR  135  SO  97SO  
ENGL  4S8C 01  5144  GSC  49SB 01  5188  MARK 381  02  5739  NSCI  212 02  210S  ROSP  102 02  1678  THTR 230  51  97SI  
ENGL  467A 01  5149  HIST  116T 03  1104  MARK 495  0 I  5740  PHIL  101 07  1760  ROSP  102 04  1415  THTR 276  S3  97S3  
ENGL 480 OJ  5151  HIST  116T 05  3071  MATH 103  OJ  1297  PHIL  201 02  0169  ROSP  I02A 02  2790  

-----------------------------------------------~-­
Thursday, December 2, 1993 The Observer • EXPANSION NEWS page 15 
Jacksonville officials excited to show off their city 
By ADAM YEOMANS 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

The city of Jacksonville prides itself as one of the up-and-com­ing cities of the South but has struggled for years to shake its small-town image. 
The big time seemed closer than ever this week for Jack­sonville after the NFL awarded the city an expansion franchise that begins play in 1995. The Jacksonville Jaguars will do more to build the city's econ­omy and identity than any glitzy PR campaign or ambitious eco­nomic development plan, offi­cials said Wednesday. 
City officials and business leaders said Jacksonville has quietly matured as one of the South's top business centers, with major corporate presences by AT&T, Barnett Bank, American Express and others. 
But most people outside the 
.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,«,.,.,.,.,....·.·· ....,.,.....,.,.,.,.........,...,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.".,.",.,.,.,.,.,.,. TUESDAY .,.,.,.,., 
9 PM-12 AM $1.00 per game! 
,.".,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,."·"•'""<.,,.,.,.,.,,,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,"·"·"'.'"·"•'·"·" THURSDAY ·············.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.w.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.w.·.·.·.-•.,.w.·.········· 
TIME BOWL 9:30-11:30 PM Only $10 per lane! 
.··<·.w,w.·,•.w..,.,.,•.•.w.·.·········'······w.••.w,w.·,·.·.•.•> STU DENT SPECIAL w.,...,N..·.·.,.·N.. ,.,..•,•...••.,...,..,.-.•.·.,...·.•.•.,.,.•.· .• 
Anytime! $1.35 per game Anytime! B:,E::.::'A_,_..,~N,·:: a:·::::Qt·~~l.
1 

....... ~ :'-r.==-V,J ..;: ; ... ....... ........ i-~~-......·: 
4210 L.W. W. Phone 234 -4167 
region haven't noticed while the city grew slowly and steadi­ly, even during the recent recession. 
An NFL franchise, however, casts the city in a "whole new light," said Frank Nero, deputy mayor of economic develop­ment. 
"We're not so sleepy any­more," Nero said. "This has been a pretty dynamic city over the past few years." 
Officials said a professional team could provide the catalyst to develop the city's downtown, an effort that has sputtered along over the past decade. 
"This is the single biggest eco­nomic development project that has ever hit Jacksonville," said Dan Connell, executive vice president of First Union Na­tional Bank and one of the vol­unteers who helped sell 10,000 club seats in 10 days to cinch the franchise. 
Before the NFL decision, the city already had embarked on a $250 million downtown devel­opment plan to renovate the Gator Bowl, build a performing arts center, refurbish the zoo, and other projects. 
The city has agreed to spend $121 million to renovate the Gator Bowl, where the Jaguars will play, but already had de­cided to spend $50 million on the stadium as part of the ongo­ing development project. 

Governor says process was unfair 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

A day of reflection did nothing to ease the anger felt by Gov. William Donald Schaefer over the treatment given to Balti­more in its bid to land an NFL franchise. 
"There were two sets of rules-one for Baltimore and one for everyone else," Schae­fer said Wednesday. "I just wish they would have been honest and told us we didn't have a chance right from the beginning, instead of having us work really hard for nothing." 
After the NFL on Tuesday picked Jacksonville as the sec­ond and final expansion team, the governor said he would need 24 hours to fully gather his thoughts. Apparently, that wasn't enough time to erase the bitter taste in his mouth. 
"If you think back, time after time we got indications that Baltimore was never in the run-
Revenge 
continued from page 20 
Dame's team this season is freshman point guard Admore White. He didn't look like a rookie during his 10 point, 11 assist performance against Valparaiso. 
If White can control the of­fense and consistently post those kind of numbers, the Irish are capable of being sue­ning," he said. "Every time we complied by the rules, they found something else we had to do...lt seemed the only one that had to comply by the rules was Baltimore." 
He said NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue never wanted Baltimore in the first place. 
"Maybe I was overly opti­mistic that things would be fair," Schaefer said. "I should have my doubts by the way we were treated by the commis­sioner's office.... The whole process was disorganized and lacking in rules." 
So, what now? Baltimore may try to lure another NFL team away from its hometown. 
cessful. A steady presence in the backcourt was one of the missing links a year ago. 
Boston College has some youth of its own, including 6­foot-7 freshman Danya Abrams, New York State's play­er of the year in 1993. Other rookies include forwards Keenan Jourdan and Brad Christiansen. 
"I like our new players," O'Brien said. "But if there's one thing I've learned it's that you can't count on freshmen in this league." 

Q9smmD fOR THf DIR(OOR'S fORJNIGHJ 1993 CANNfS filM ffSTIVAl 
"ABSORBING AND RELENTLESS... 
After watchl.ng this Film about a. young Afric&n Americ&n man trytng to break out ofh1s lliistence a.s a. hustler on the mean streets ofWatts you m.lgb.t feel a.s Ifyou've done atour of duty. Welcome to L.A.-the other L.A.• 
-Drnm •..uon.nn!II.! liAGAZlll 
[J]~-~~,' 
\!II. 11\t 41\t\11
• 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
t-lappy Bh~thday 
Pard Stachf J miss youl 
~rosses Bises1 
Mid9e 
-


page 16 The Observer • PRO BASKETBALL 
Announcing membership of committees established by Colloquy for the Year 2000 
More than 100 University of Notre Dame faculty, students and staff will serve on five new committees established by the University's president, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Acting on the final report of the Colloquy for the Year 2000, Father Malloy announced in August the formation of committees on curriculum; international studies; research, scholarship and infrastructure; and libraries. Since then a fifth committee, on architecture and the performing arts, also has been established. 
The committees will issue recommendations by the end of the current academic year. With the exception of the architecture and performing arts group, each committee is composed of a combination of appointed mem­bers and those elected by their respective constituencies. 
University Curriculum Committee Chair: Timothy O'Meara, provost and Kenna professor of mathematics 
Carolyn M. Callahan, associate professor of accountancy (appointed); James Collins, chair and associate professor of communication and theatre; Neil Delaney, professor of philosophy; Rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C., associate professor of art, art history and design (appoint­ed); MortonS. Fuchs, professor of biological sciences; Sister Mary Jane Griffin, O.S.F., rector; Alexander J. Hahn, professor of mathematics (appointed); Kevin A. )erich, senior undergraduate, College of Business Administration; Barry Keating, chair and Jones professor of finance and business economics; Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies and concurrent assistant professor of mathematics (appointed); 
A. Graham Lappin, chair and professor of chemistry and biochemistry (appointed); Kathleen P. Lynch, sophomore undergraduate, College of Arts and Letters. 
Also: Mark J. McCready, associate professor of chemical engineering (appointed); Naomi Meara, professor of psychology; Ken Milani, professor of accountancy; Catherine Miller, senior undergraduate, College of Arts and Letters; Bong Miquiabas, senior undergraduate, College of Arts and Letters; Dian H. Murray, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters and associate professor of history (appointed); Kathie E. Newman, associate dean of the College of Science and associate professor of physics; David O'Connor, associate professor of philos­ophy; James H. Powell, associate dean of the Graduate School and director of the summer session; Michael M. Stanisic, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; Marsha Stevenson, associate librarian; and John J. Uhran Jr., associate chair and professor of computer science and engineering, and professor of electrical engineering. 
Committee on International Studies Chair: Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of international studies 
Rev. Austin l. Collins, C.S.C., associate professor of art, art history and design; JoAnn DellaNeva, chair and associate professor of romance languages and literatures; Harald E. Esch, professor of biological sciences; Anne Marie Firth, assistant to the vice president for stu­dent affairs (appointed); Jeffrey R. Flynn, junior undergraduate, College of Arts and Letters; Michael Francis, professor of government and international studies; Sonia Gernes, professor of English; Joseph Guiltinan, associate dean of the College of Business Administration and pro­fessor of marketing; V. Paul Kenney, professor of physics; Kwan S. Kim, professor of economics and faculty fellow in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies (appointed); Lizabeth N. Lennon, senior undergraduate, College of Arts and Letters; Rev. William M. Lewers, C.S.C., professor of law and director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
Also: S. Blake Leyerle, assistant professor of theology (appointed); David T. Link, Matson dean of the Law School and professor of law; John Lucey, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; Kevin Misiewicz, assistant chair and associate professor of accountancy; Walter Nugent, Tackes professor of history (appointed); Christopher L. Peterson, junior undergraduate, College of Business Administration; Mihir Sen, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering; Duncan G. Stroik, assistant professor of architecture (appointed); Joseph Taijeron, junior undergraduate, College of Arts and Letters; Rafael E. Tarrago, assistant librarian; Raimo Vayrynen, Regan director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and professor of government and international studies (appointed); and Ann Marie Wolf, assistant professional specialist in the Freshman Year of Studies (appointed). 
Committee on Research, Scholarship and Infrastructure Chair: Nathan 0. Hatch, vice president and dean of the Graduate School 
John Borkowski, McKenna family professor of psychology; George R. Duke, director of corporate relations (appointed); Fernand Dutile, associate dean of the Law School and professor of law; Rita Francis, graduate student; Thomas Frecka, Lizzadro professor of accountan­cy; Maureen L. Gleason, librarian; Paul Helquist, professor of chemistry and biochemistry; Paula M. Higgins, associate professor of music (appointed); Anthony K. Hyder, associate vice president of graduate studies and research and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing (appointed). 
Also: Gerald L. Jones, director of the chemical physics program, and chair and professor of physics; Jeffrey Kantor, professor of chemi­cal engineering; Vicki J. Martin, associate professor of biological sciences (appointed); Thomas J. Mason, vice president for business affairs (appointed); Rev. Wilson D. Miscamble, C.S.C., chair and associate professor of history; Anthony Dirk Moses, graduate student; Larry Patterson, faculty fellow in chemistry and assistant director of the radiation laboratory; Frank Reilly, Hank professor of business administra­tion; Billie F. Spencer Jr., associate professor of civil engineering and geological sciences; and Jennifer Warlick, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, director of the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and associate professor of economics (appointed). 
Committee on University Libraries Chair: Roger A. Schmitz, vice president and associate provost 
Heather Arnold, junior undergraduate, College of Business Administration; Joanne M. Bessler, associate librarian; Maureen B. Boulton, associate professor of romance languages and literatures (appointed); Joan F. Brennecke, assistant professor of chemical engineering (appointed); Christopher J. Butler, graduate student; Kathryn J. Deck, graduate student; Sue A. Dietl, head of library access services (appoint­ed); Dennis Doordan, associate professor of architecture; Linda Eannello, second year student, Law School; Thomas P. Fehlner, Grace-Rupley p~ofessor of chemistry and biochemistry; Christopher Fox, chair and associate professor of English; Ethan T. Haimo, chair and professor of music. 
Also: John A. Halloran, associate professor of finance and business economics; Ronald A. Hellenthal, professor of biological sciences and director of the Hank University of Notre Dame Environmental Research Center; Roger Jacobs, professor of law, Law School librarian, director of research in the law library, and associate dean for research and information services; Alan D. Krieger, associate librarian; Howard 
P. Lanser, associate professor of finance and business economics; Robert C. Miller, director of libraries; John C. (Chris) Olsen, professor of accountancy (appointed); Daniel G. Reagan, director of development (appointed); Robert E. Rodes Jr., professor of law; Daniel Sheerin, chair and professor of classical and oriental languages and literatures; Stephen E. Silliman, associate professor of civil engineering and geological sci­ences; Donald Z. Spicer, assistant provost for university computing and concurrent professor of mathematics (appointed); and Thomas Whitman, professor of psychology. 
Committee on Architecture and the Performing Arts Chair: Harold W. Attridge, Shuster Dean of Arts and Letters 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., executive vice president; Stephen E. Gersh, acting director of the Medieval Institute and pro­fessor of medieval studies; Ethan T. Haimo, chair and professor of music; William J. Kremer Jr., chair and professor of art, art history and design; Rev. Thomas F. O'Meara, O.P., Warren professor of theology; Mark C. Pilkinton, professor of communication and theatre; Dean A. Porter, director of the Snite Museum of Art and professor of art, art history and design; and Thomas Gordon Smith, chair and professor of architecture (all appointed). 
Laimbeer calls it quits at 36 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associate Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

Bill Laimbeer, realizing he had become the kind of player he despised, retired Wednesday at age 36. 
With all his teammates and the entire Detroit Pistons front office looking on, Laimbeer said he simply had lost his desire to compete. 
"When I saw players come in here who no longer are willing to sacrifice their body and mind, I used to advise them," he said during a news confer­ence at The Palace. ''I'd goad them into it. If that didn't work, I'd reject them. Now I'm one of those players." 
Laimbeer said the feeling had been coming on for the last two or three seasons. He said he knew before training camp this season could be his last. 
"Coming to camp, my goal was to make it through the sea­son," Laimbeer said. "I knew that I did not feel like doing it anymore. But I wanted to help the franchise. I thought maybe we'd get of to an 8-0 start, or something, and I'd feel better about things." 
That didn't happen, of course. The Pistons were 5-7 when Laimbeer made up his mind Monday. He told his teammates of his decision before their game Tuesday night in Cleve­land. They lost that game, too, with Laimbeer on the bench. 
"I just felt all the negative fac-
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Irish Ice lub Hockey: Practice 11:15 p.m. Wednes­day, Dec. 1. All players playing against Lake Forest on Dec. 4 must attend. Bring $5. Any questions call Pete 273-5909 or Bob 4-1950. 
All 1993 Fall Champi· onshlp teams and individuals who have not gotten their pic· ture taken please come to the RecSports Office on Monday, Dec. 6th anytime between 7 p.m.-8 p.m. to get it taken. 
Attention Skiers: There will be a meeting Thursday. Dec.. 2 at 8:00 p.m. in 127 Niewland Science Hall for all those going on the Christmas break trip to Breckinridge, Co or trying out for the ND/SMC Ski Team. 
NO Rowing Team formal on Dec 10. Anyone interested In going novice or varsity bring $12 to Rm 235 Lyons by Friday. Call Mary at 4294 with questions. 
tors were too great to over­come," Laimbeer said. "It's like a shining light just opened up in my mind and said, 'Bill, let's go, let's get out of the way."' 
During his 14 seasons in the NBA, all but one with the Pis­tons, the 6-foot-11 center be­came one of the most hated players the game has ever known. His flying elbows and hard picks sent bodies flying and tempers flaring every­where he played. 
"I'd be lying if I said I didn't like to see nice things written about me," Laimbeer said. "That's human nature. But those who know me close, know what kind of person I am.'' 
But the Bad Boy role was one he was glad to play. For one thing, it suited his personality. For another, it helped the Pis­tons win NBA championships in 1989 and 1990. It became part of their mistique. 
"I think 'hate' is a strong word," Laimbeer said. "We're in the entertainment business. I wore the black hat. Somebody has to play that role. I accepted it. 
"Even in high school, the other teams disliked me. It's my style of play. I'm very frus­trating to play against, because I'm always there. People get frustrated with that. Then, they start getting angry." 
When he called it quits, Laim­beer had played in 1,068 regu­lar-season games. 
Courtesy ot Noire Dame Sports l"lonnalio" 
Former Notre Dame star Bill Laimbeer has decided to retire after 14 years in the NBA 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
1----F•L•O•R•I•D•A ------i 
OAYTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH OR!.ANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
1----C•O•L•O•R•A•D•O -----1 
-
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
r----N•E•V•A•D•A-----l 
LAS VEGAS 

S•O•U•T•H C•A•R•O•L•I•N•A 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FREE FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1•BOO•SUNCHASE 

--~-----------------------------~ ~ ----~------------------------------~-------------­
Thursday, December 2, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
SMC swimming optimistic 
By KIMBERLY BERO fact, and do the best we can. season," said Janson. Sports Writer Our main objective is to Coach Janson is depending improve over our losses," heavily on freestylist Theresa 
The Saint Mary's swim team Janson explained. Popp and distance freestylist is seeking their first duel meet The Belles also face the prob­Shannon Kelleher. Janson is win today as they compete in lem of fatigue. The team has also anticipating fruitful per­the National Catholic Invita­been practicing much more formances from backstroke star tional at Rolfs Aquatic Center at than usual, as compared with Kathleen Rose and breaststroke 10 a.m. their competitors. specialist Jill Cooper. 
Saint Mary's will be vying "Overall we're going to per­"Our team has a very good against Division III teams such form well, but we're not as chemistry. That's one thing as Illinois Benedictine and John rested as we could be. How­with which I have been most Carroll. Division I teams such ever, we need to worry about pleased. If we would have been 
as Notre Dame, Boston College, doing our best and not worry judged by heart and spirit alone Providence, and La Salle will about the abilities of the other at Albien, we would have won," also be competing in the meet, teams," said sophomore stated Janson. according to the Belles' coach, freestyler Katie Gibbs. "Our new coach has helped Greg Janson. Corning away from a 147-94 us bond together. Thus, our 
The biggest hurdle which the loss against Albion College be­performance has been Belles will be facing is the fore Thanksgiving Break, the enhanced," said Gibbs. speed of the Division I teams, Belles are confident about the "We're definitely ready to Janson said. upcoming meet, Janson said. compete. If we swim fast, stay "We won't let their speed af­"We're pretty excited to final­calm and focused, and execute, 
fect our performance. We will ly be swimming at home. It's a we have a very good possibility take the Division I schools' great pool, and we are now of winning the Division III com­abilities as an unchangeable ready to swim faster than at petition," Janson said. 
anv other ooint thus far this 
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 
"Newly Remodeled Apartments at Very Affordable Rates" 
• 
SPACIOUS 2-BEDROOM APARTMENTS 

• 
NEW APPLIANCES, CABINETS, AND CARPETS 

• 
ENTRY SECURITY 

• 
LAUNDRY FACILITY AVAILABLE 

• 
4 BLOCKS FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAM 

• 
SKILLED MAINTENANCE CREW 

• 
PRIVATE OFF-STREET PARKING FOR TENANTS 

• 
SEVERALUNITS AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY 


Now TAKING APPUCATIONS FoR SPRING SEMESTER '93-'94 & '94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR FoR MoRE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
A tliree-liour conference witft PETER SENGE 
How can we design an environment In which creativity 
and personal growth are encouraged? Peter Senge, author of the ground breaking book. Tfle Fifth Discipline: The Art •nd Pr•clice of the le•rning Org•ni=<Jtlon 
and director of the Center for OrganJzatJonaJ Learning at MIT's Sloan School of Management, appears live via satellite to explore how we can create workplaces and schools that are "leamlnc organizations.'" 
Prominently featured In the cover story for the August 31 issue of BKSintss Wuk. Dr. Senge Is hailed as 
one of the "hottest and most Influential new gurus.•. who focuses on how managers and organizations 
leam." join us at the location below to hear Dr. Senge"s newest Insights since writing Tnt F"l(l~ Dlscipiint and discover how you too can apply his ideas. You"ll have the opportunity to phone or fax your questions 
and hear the responses Immediately, on..:.alr. 

Don"! miss this .xcitlng professloft•ldevelopm<nt opportunity. I! (ust m•y ie the iest Investment of thret hours
r•• could ma~tl 
Friday 

December 10~ 1993 
1-4 pm • 
136 DeBartolo 
!00-Seat Capacity 
~>PBS 

The AED rum:brim 
N.A.K. Productmn Associates 

Se11" the Gift ofHope 

SV\V\day1 Decembe~ 5 
t-loliday Ca~d }\ctioM 
1993 

6:30 Vigil at StoV\eheV\gei 7 atCSC 
AmV\es+y JV\te~MatioMal USA 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 1993 
NHL referees ink pact with league 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
The NHL's regular referees and linesmen will return to the ice Thursday night after the league and its striking officials ratified a four-year contract Wednesday. 
The agreement gives the offi­cials pay raises ranging from $18,000 to $84,000 and ends the use of replacement offi­cials, whose performance was severely criticized by many players. 
"We are thrilled and de­lighted to have them back," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said. "We missed them. We really didn't want them to go." 
Bettman, speaking at a news conference, called the contract "fair and reasonable." 
"We had our differences ... We may still have some differ­ences ... but overall it's a pack­age we are happy with," he said. 
The replacements, brought in when the strike began Nov. 15, worked their final six games Wednesday night. 
Don Meehan, chief negotiator for the NHL Officials Associa­tion, said the 58 striking offi­cials voted "overwhelmingly" for ratification, but said the tally was not unanimous. 
The contract, retroactive to the start of the season, was agreed to in principle after a nine-hour negotiating session Tuesday outside Montreal. The officials had been without a contract since August. 
"In relation to the overall ne­gotiating process, we were prepared to agree that the salaries offered by the league were competitive with other sports," Meehan said. "There was a balancing process." 
Among those relieved that the strike was over was Kerry Fraser, a referee the last 15 years. 
"I'm so anxious to get back to work, and the feeling I have now is that the league office and the NHLOA saw the league had a problem and acted on it," he said from his home in Vorhees, N.J. "Sure, we had our differences ... that's to be expected in any labor dispute. 
"But 1 really feel that the league -which many people felt was stagnating in the last few years -has taken a turn in the right direction. It's time for us to move forward and assist in whatever way we can for the good of the game." 
Fraser's first post-strike as­signment comes Friday night -a Montreal-Washington game at Landover. Md. 
"If they cheer us, I'll know two things," he said. "They missed us, and you can bet they won't ever do it again." 
The referees are to get pay raises of about 29 percent and linesmen about 26 percent. 

NFL defenses dominating games 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 

The NFL can thank coach Bobby Ross and the San Diego Chargers for running up the score on the Colts on Monday night. It spared the league from its lowest scoring weekend of the modern era. 
San Diego's 31-0 victory gave the league a weekend average of 27.5 points per game, a tenth of a point better than the week­end in 1977 when 27.4 points were scored. 
What's going? There are sev­eral theories, almost all of them valid: 
1-Zone defenses inside the goal line. 
2-Not enough top-rate quar­terbacks, based on injuries and a bunch of running quarter­backs. Four of the best perfor­mances last week were by Steve DeBerg, 39; Phil Simms, 38; Joe Montana, 38, and War­ren Moon, 37. 
3-A penchant in college to put the best athletes on de­fense, which translates to the pros. 
4-A larger roster, which al­lows teams to use specialists on defense for every contingency. 
5-Cutting the time between plays from 45 seconds to 40, giving quarterbacks Jess time to audible plays that will beat the defense they see. 
6-Bill Parcells and Lawrence Taylor. 
Don't laugh at the last one. Go back to 1986, when the Giants had one of those dominant sea­sons, 17-2 and a rout of Denver in the Super Bowl. Danny White was playing quarterback then for Dal1as and was explaining how difficult it was to face the Giants' defense, 
"If you get the ball in your own territory, you can move," he said. "If you get real lucky 1and don't make a mistake, maybe you can get close enough for a field goal. If get extraordinarily lucky and they make a mistake or you make a great play, then you can get a touchdown. Otherwise, forget 
it... Now you can say that about the defenses on more than half the NFL's 28 teams. Parcells (and Bill Belichick, now the Cleveland coach), per­fected the two-deep zone. 

George Seifert of the 49ers, dis­covered the linebacker-strong safety, Jeff Fuller. And Taylor got all those teams to put their best athlete at outside line­backer and turn them into pass rushers. 
Now, on third and four or more, that's what teams face ­five defensive backs, a line­backer-safety and a Pat Swilling, Derrick Thomas, Re­naldo Turnbull or Junior Seau ready to come at the passer. 
So how many times this year have you seen a team facing a third and five throw a three­yard completion? Too many times-seven players drop back, cover at the first-down line and dare you to throw. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
Let's Go Irish! 
Thursday through Saturday 12/2-4 Men's and Women's Swimming hosts the National Catholic 
Championships 
10:00 am -trials 
6:30 pm -finals Rolf's Aquatic Center 
Saturday 12/4 Notre Dame Hockey vs. Illinois-Chicago 
7:00 pm JACC Fieldhouse ~~ 



r---------------------------­Thursday, December 2, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY 
SPELUNKER 
'f.KNDUJ,SOI"')fTifVIES T lUDRR'-1 TtlAT A RACE OF :>PAC£ FARIN&) 
P/6-,S Mi&.Hf LAND oN EARn-1 
AND HARYtsr HU~Ai'JS FoR BACDI.l 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'N\-\t-.1 "' 
R<:lTIE.l'-1 
E'IEt-1\\-l.G 
T\-1\S W/\'5 
SoT, Or<«' A""'"• BEl-liNI> f'n"' OwN ~'-1:. 
o 
l~n. Tl*< F.~~.,. "Sn:r o·<1ii,~'l6!'1ollle.TA~ o J0-r 1:J<>1.1N fY\o; ~ELINoS,~ fl....,oL< 0'\~li\ouc.t<n 

o 
hLL L\1' Fov~ f'P~£~-ON l.JKAl "I \<toW NoT 


...''Gfl.tAT t'lli'EC.TIIrtoNS ~A fY\nA"PtloR 
"?

fc;,._ 'SI-IoPLtFT•r-Jb . -NAI-l 
c:;,"Lo12.ENA "Bo6stil:THE = ['(\o"t>Ef.N l)A"\ "PtP "?: .. · 
NoNof',PNoNo ... 
JAY HOSLER 


Wft~l l<iNDA fHiNI:!S Do YOIJ wor<.R'{ ABoUT, 
;J£N7 
BILL WATTERSON 
'NB.L, '«\TI-l 1\.\E T\N\~ 
A.'JA.\L!>.BLE, 'iOV DID 11-\E 8E'51 'fO\l COULD 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "-tu,"Verdi ana 4Growmg in snow 1 Resort lake near Milano 13 Roomy vehicles t5 "Have-day" t&Own t7 Anagram of IRIDESCENT tl Head of the classe 20 Freet1me 21 Anagram of RED TAPE 23Withdraw formally 24 Class1f1er 25 -grat1a art1s 26Collo1d 
27 Camp dwellings 31 Bye-bye 33 Not too bright 34 Employers 35 Past 36 Anagram of 
RAIMENT 36Rece/ved 31 Forgive 4t Endmg for cash 
or cloth 42 Waller of song 43 Indo-European, 
once 44 Genet1c 1nits. 45 Bndle part 46 Franco and 
Peter 
48 Anagram of ENISLE 51 Anagram of 
STAPLER 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Lje.s T 've. "!<EAt> fl1A<rt'l<l?'<r.ENS, h-WA~ AFit<£ TALE ~'I \f ~.., 1\Vfi'Pfl. LN<ett,h Gv1<~ ~ 1-\u'll fl...., 1\Lt:: "Bu.,-"Tro" EssA'-\\K<."\ WP«<' ''f:>wtlr<E H1'> Bo'* 1'' " ovt S,v t:b•MED Q~~ons, Slow lh ANE"' ~" t'' 
... fv.,.o \.};e. 
PAAENTI-IETtC.AL 
"t>oc.ui"'U<TP.TION 
DAVE KELLETT 

w~"\THIS 1-;N'TRII:.HT/ FivE Th6£sl F~Z.om rrte.?.' l-ot<Et> 1-\•m, No "Dov11,-;l3u.,. H.t•<E UT /Y!E Be:. t<E~ flsr. m'1 ()p.N\ON?[..u· fl\1:. R.EIN-.TI'ITE­Wn" rn4'S.-nfii.LI-\oni'B~ (l),Nt>,li<t l>J.,;;:t>S J,., '(.J,_', 'RRr 
I ·--------·
T w~ITE T.l!s I m,~., t""-lHEMliie.!>i~ No,, IF" To r;,.., fl1 OPINioN, 'I'LL P.sr. 

42 Measurable so Seabirds
-:+::-t::+.:::t=Ei 11 Speck of dust 
31 Cloth made 12 Was 1n the red 44 Swordfish in the 5t Kind of school from bark t4 Canaanite sky 52 Burano export 

commander 32 Chinese 
45Composer 53 Anagram of 55 
t&Washtub isinglass 
Bartok ACROSSresidue 33 Cacophony 47 Furnish w1th 54 Blunt22 Kind of jury 34"-Aiibl," fresh personnel 57 Lmks necessity 24 Anagram of Selleck film 
SEMINAR 26 Tom Collins 36 Painter of 
Get answers to any three clues
haystacksingredient 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
5656 (75¢ each minute).
TIMESAVING Game" actor 

54 Anagram of 
REVILED 55 Dash, e.g. 56 Anagram of 
NATATORIUM 58 Fashion color 59 Ma1d m "D1e 
Fledermaus" 60 Drudge of the manor 11 "Iolanthe" 
marcher &2Carols 63 Graduate degs. 
DOWN 

1 IniqUitieS 2 Indian pnncess 3Anagram of 
DICTIONARY 4 Mother-of-pearl 5Apropos of &Compete 1Chem1st's 
solvent a"-c'est m01" 9Anagram of 
TERRACE 
29 Harness race 40 Anagram of 48 Dry periods 1 o Finished 
ASUNDER 49 D1va Mitchell30 J.FK vis1tors 


SPORTS 
Thursday, December 2, 1993 
Irish throtde Marquette 
By AMY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Behind 24 points and 18 rebounds from junior Letitia Bowen, the Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated Marquette 90-76 at home last night. 
The Irish's defense once again proved to be the decisive factor as Notre Dame recorded their second straight win of the season. 
The Irish opened up the game with senior Sherri Orlosky hitting a three­point shot on their first possession. Marquette took their first lead of the game with 10:48 left in the half, at 14-13. 
In a close first half. the Irish finally took the lead for good with 1:44 left in the half, and never trailed again. 
"I thought Marquette was a great team. It was a big win for us," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "I felt we really showed our poise at the end of the game." 
Although the Irish only held a two point lead at halftime, 40-38, they returned strong to dominate the rest of the game. 
Orlosky hit two consecutive three-point­ers to open up the second half and extend the Irish lead to 46-38. 
With 4:25 left in the game, the Irish went on an eight-point run to build an 80-69 lead. Bowen hit two shots, while Orlosky and senior Kara Leary each added two free throws to extend the lead. The Irish had their biggest lead of the game when Leary hit two free throws to " ~ make it 88-71 with 21 seconds left in the 
The Obse.ver/Kyle Kusek 
Junior forward Letitia Bowen scored 24 points and pulled down 18 boards to lead the Irish g~m~h d half, the Notre Dame 
in their 90-76 win over Marquette last night. 
Swimming and diving look to continue streaks 
By KELLY CORNELIS 
S rta Wrirer 
The Notre Dame men's and w o m e n ' s .,...-+ swimming and diving-· teams will "· host the-· 
National~ 
Catholic> champi­

.. 
onships at ·" Rolfs Aquatic David Nathe Center on December 2-4 as they look to continue thHir dominance in the seventh an­nual event. 
In thostl seven years. the men have won four straight tiUHs, and the women have won the last three years. 
The Irish are well-rested and clean-shaven as they head into the meet. They have not swam competitively for two weoks, and since their last meet they have stopped lifting weights and have shortened practices. 
In addition, all the swimmors have shaved their bodios in hopes of increasing their times. Many of them are trying to make NCAA qualifying times at this meet. 
The Irish women are favorites to win the champi­onship, while the men will face 

Saint Mary's The Saint Mary's swim­ming team is anxiuos to compete in the National Catholic Invitational this weekend. see page 17 
a tough challenge in LaSalle, last year's runner-up. 
Men's captain Dave Nathe and sophomore Ry Beville lead the men's team this season. Beville has won the 200 fly in all six dual meets, and Nathe has dominated the freestyle events. 
For the women, sophomore standout Jesslyn Peterson looks to continue her winning streak in ·the individual medley events, and several freshman will contribute to the Irish cause. 
Freshman Erin Brooks has posted eight victories in the 200 backstroke so far this sea­son, and Elizabeth Rice and Amy Bostick have also been swimming well. 
"I really don't have any great expectations," said Brooks. ''I'm just hoping to swim my best times." 
"We're real excited for the freshman in their first champi­onship meet," stated captain Kristin Heath. "I know they're going to swim well, and I also think our relays are going to perform really well." 
The trial races will begin at 10 a.m. each day, followed by the finals at 6:30 p.m. Fourteen Catholic colleges and universities will compete for the championship. 

n e secon 
Revenge a factor in hoops dash 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Ediwr 

There will be some role reversal tonight in Newton, Mass. when the Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team battles Boston College. 
The Irish will be the upset-minded squad look­ing for a little respect with a win on the road against a more talented opponent. 
But the Eagles' win on the gridiron two weeks ago may add a little fuel to Notre Dame's fire. 
"The hype will definitely be there," senior Carl Cozen said. "I have some friends out there and they can't wait for Notre Dame to come in so they can beat them in football and basketball. We'll have to put them back in their place." 
That won't be easy against a senior-dominated Boston College team that is driven to improve on last season's 18-13 mark that included a 9-9 mark in the Big East. 
Losses in eight of their final 13 games turned a promising season for the Eagles into a disap­pointing NIT ending. 
Senior Bill Curley is the key to Boston College's fortunes. The stocky 6-foot-9 forward lead the Eagles with 15.8 points and 7.6 rebounds per game last season. 
lie scored 24 in Tuesday's 94-73 win over Dartmouth, lifting BC to 2-0 this season. 

Joining Curley in the starting lineup are senior guards Howard Eisley, who averaged nearly 14 points a year ago and Malcom Iluckaby, who scored 11.5 points per game. 
"This is the first time since I've been at B.C. that the senior class will be our best players," eighth-year Eagles' coach Jim O'Brien said. 
Notre Dame counters with its own senior-heavy lineup, led by Monty Williams, who scored a career-high 42 points in Sunday's season-open­ing 95-74 win over Valparaiso. 
Jon and Joe Ross will have to handle Curley 
Inside SPORTS 
Laimbeer Retires Duke Wins Former Irish and Detroit 

The Blue Devils and a 

host of other top colle­Laimbeer calls it quits 
Piston bad boy Bill 
giate teams post wins in after 14 years in the 
a busy night of college NBA. 
hoops. see page 15 
see page 13 The Observer/Sec« Mendenhall Senior Monty Williams leads the Irish into hostile ter­ritory tonight as the Irish take on Boston College. 

inside and Cozen will have to be a force from the perimeter. 
Sophomore Ryan lloover raised some eyebrows with a 26-point performance Sunday that includ­ed 6 of 7 3-pointers. 
Maybe the most important player on Notre 
see REVENGE I page 15 
defensive pressure held the Warriors to 35.7% shooting from the field and creat­ed 18 turnovers. The Irish outscored them 50-38 in the half. 
"We stopped their transition," said Orlosky. "We had to go out and attack the basket and be strong. We had to rebound because thny were beating us on the boards." 
Orlosky turned in a 19-point perfor­mance for Notre Dame, going 3-5 from three point land. Also scoring in double figures was freshman Beth Morgan (15 points), senior Tootie .Jones, (12 points), and Leary, (10 points). 
The team shot 43.1% from the lield and went 24-25 from the free throw line. 
For the Warriors, Stephanie Krumrei tied Bowen for a game-high 24 points, hitting on 8-14 shots. Krumrei played a major role in the lirst half, contributing 15 points. Teammate Kristen Maskala was the only other player for Marquette to reach double figures, with 11 points. 
"I thought our defense was the major turning point. They were hurting us in transition," McGraw said. 
Last year the Warriors snapped Notre Dame's 16-game series streak with a 66­62 victory in Milwaukee. The Irish now lead the series 18-4, with· a 12-1 record against the Warriors at the .JACC. McGraw has a 9-1 career record against Marquette. 
"It felt good because we played them at Marquette last year and lost. It was good to beat a team we thought we should have beaten in the first place," added Bowen. 





