-----~-­
The Observer 

L__ 
VOL. XXV. NO. 81 FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

SMC candidates debate issues 
By ELIZABETH QUINLAN 
News Writer 

The need for an increase in student activities, a de-tex system, an honor system and parietals were discussed by the tickets for Saint Mary's student body government. The tickets are Melissa Whelan/Melissa Peters and Mary Beth Wilkinson/Lynn O'Donnell. They also discussed building stronger internal and external relations through faculty and almunae links with students, as well as inter-campus activities. 
The debates were held last night in Haggar Parlor. 
A large concern for many students has been the question of an increase in student activities fees. 
Whelan and Peters said that they favor an increase in fees, although not as high as proposed. Whelan says it depends on student feeling about the increase. She hopes to appeal to the College for more funding as well. 
Wilkinson states, too, that it is something "the students need to vote on". She would favor an increase from the current 20 dollars to become 75 dollars. With this money, she would promote more cultural events, including bands, as well as 
work to make Dalloway's a full-time paid
The Observer/Jake Peters 
student-run coffeehouse. With regards to the parietals and de-tex . 

My hero! 

The superheroes were out for the Keenan Revue last night. Captain America (Bryan Schneider), Green Lantern (Paul English), 
controversies, Whelan states she will "go with 
Spiderman (Matt Brechwald), Superman (Sean Murphy), Batman (Dan Connolly), Flash Gordon (Owen Rice), Robin (Jonathan 
see DEBATE/page 4
Fay) and the Incredible Hulk (Michael Steinbacher)-(from left to right). The Revue runs through Saturday. 


Plan to lift the ban on homosexuals
Report raises questions 
Observer Staff Report shortly after the accident. It is 

in military stirs national debate 
unclear whether the grand jury
Witness accounts in a 
had access to that information 

National Transportation Safety (AP) -From the military at Camp Pendleton, Calif., somebody looking at my butt in 
before it made its decision. 

Board (NTSB) report on the ranks to mainstream America, Lance Cpl. Richard McDowell the shower if they're the same
The Notre Dame women's 

a fire-fight of divided feelings said a new policy would affect sex."
United Limo bus accident last swim team was returning from buzzed Thursday over Presi­performance. At Malmstrom Air Force Base
year have rais.ed questions a meet at Northwestern 
dent Clinton's plan to lift the "I wouldn't feel comfortable in Montana, Sgt. Marty Tuckerabout a grand jury decision last University when the bus flipped ban on homosexuals serving in with some guy who's gay, in a said the change is "not the im­April not to indict the driver of three miles from the Notre the military. fighting hole, in the middle of age the military should pro­the bus, Howard Dixon. 
Dame exit. Freshmen Margaret Some in, and some out of battle," McDowell said. "You ject."
The report, obtained this 

"Meghan" Beeler and Colleen uniform questioned what the wouldn't know if he'd be And Capt. Tim Myers, com­week by WNDU-16, includes Hipp were killed in the big deal was, but many sol­thinking about fighting or be manding officer of the Chicago statements gathered days after diers, sailors, Marines and thinking about, you know, you." Navy Reserve Officers Training
accident. 

the accident that indicate that airmen voiced a resounding Army Pfc. Paul Rader, sta­Corps, said the close quarters
Dixon said after the accident 

Dixon. 54. was driving too fast "no" about liberalizing the tioned at Fort Campbell, Ky., of sea duty would pose prob-
that he was driving between 40 

for the snowy and icy policy. said allowing gays in the mili­lems. · 
and 45 mph, well under the 

conditions of the Indiana Toll "Quite honestly, the only way tary "disgusts me." He said "I think it is very difficult for
posted 55 mph speed limit. 

to describe the opponents' re­homosexuals on active duty the heterosexual and gay maleHoad on January 24, 1992. 
But two witnesses told NTSB action is hate," said Sam Galle­would be treated roughly by to live beside one another for

While WNDU claimed investigators that the United 

gos, now a reporter for a gay other soldiers. six months on a ship," Myers
Wednesday night that it had Limo bus passed their cars on 
magazine after he was given a "If they want to put all the said. "There is no place to go if new evidence, in fact the NTSB the left traveling "at least 55 general discharge from the females and one gay guy in the someone is uncomfortable." 
report evidence included only Colorado National Guard in same platoon, that's fine -just But Frederick Seltzer, a gaywitness accounts from the days 
see BUS/ page 4 1991. keep them away from me," journalist seaman apprentice at But at the Marine Corps base Rader said. "I don't want the submarine base in Bangor, 
Court upholds Palestinian deportations, but orders government appeal process 
JEHUSALEM (AP) -Israel the Arabs, insisted diplomacy with either Israel or the Arabs, facp,d growing world censure would be more effective. the Clinton administration Thursday and the prospect of Israel says it expelled the men urged the Security Council to jeopardizing peace talks after because they are tied to radical put off consideration of sanc­its supreme court upheld the Islamic groups that killed six tions. State Department deportation of more than 400 soldiers in December, and it spokesman Richard Boucher Palestinians to southern Le­indica'ted Thursday that it would not comment on the banon. expects the United States to court ruling, but it is clear the 
A seven-judge panel rejected head off any U.N. action. United States hopes to avoid a all appeals of the Dec.17 expul­Israel radio quoted Prime council showdown in which it sions, but it ordered the gov­Minister Yitzhak Rabin telling a would have to choose between ernment to let the men appear closed Labor Party meeting that vetoing sanctions or alienating incfividually before military ap­U.N. punishment would destroy Israel. peal committees. the peace process by signaling The council is scheduled to 
Palestinian peace negotiators the Arabs that they can win meet Monday to discuss new said the court ruling threatened concessions through the steps. the peace process, and they Security Council, rather than U.N. Secretary-Genera! called for U.N. sanctions to fol­through negotiations. Boutros Boutros-Ghali has low up a U.N. resolution urging In a public speech, however, urged further action against Is­that the men be repatriated he was more upbeat, saying, "I rael, and Rabin acknowledged immediately. am looking forward with the that he expects a tough fight. 
Arab diplomats at the United belief and the hope that the But he told reporters that he Nations sought broad support peace talks will continue. I expected the United States to for sanctions, but the United might add that you don't make block any sanctions, which States, hoping to avoid a diffi­peace by doing favors." would be the most drastic step. cult choice between Israel and Facing a possible standoff 
see ISRAELI page 

Kinney named Editor-in-Chief 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 

vid Kinney was 
t~ln~Chief of The Observer. or the 1993~94 year yesterday:by a majority deci­sion ofthe General Board. Kinney is majoring in Gov· 
ernment with a concentration 
in the Hesburgh Program in 
Public Service. He is a resident 
of Morrissey Hall from Win­

ston-Salem. • .North Carolina. ll diD\; " In/,! j;' "I am. pleased to be given the ·David Kinney 
opportunity to serve The Ob­served as an intern at a Win·server next year." said Kinney. 
ston·Salem radio station"I am about the 
during the summer of1991.
pos$ihi for improving coverage ... both campuses." 
"The Observer .has a bright
A staff member of The Ob­
future," be added. "I am confi· 
server since freshman year, dent that next year's GeneralKinney previously served as 
Board can continue the news­assistant news editor, associate paper's traditions and build on news editor and news editor. 
past successes to improve it." 
He is the tre~urer ofthe Notre Dame chapter of the Society of Kinney will take over the po·
Professi{}n~l Journalists and 
sition after spring break. 

...-------­
page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
What is this, America, more gridlock? 
Did I miss something? 
I seem to recall a bunch of us getting to­gether and claiming that we had to courage to go in a new direction and fix the problems with our world. 

Oh, yeah, and we deeided that, since -the Paul Pearson 1970s are coming back in Associate News Editor 
style, it would be all right -------­if Fleetwood Mac got baek together, too. Well, now that we have a new leader in Washington, we should be able to make some really radical changes, right? Yeah, that's what I thought, too. And that's why I'm so confused. We've had a new administration for over a week, but instead of tackling the important stuff, most of the past week has been devoted to abortion and homosexuals in the military. Is it any accident that both of these non-issues deal with sex? President Clinton has gotten so much grie about letting homosexual soldiers out of the closet that he couldn't get anything done if he tried. The military establishment is concerned that homosexuals will lower troop spirit and cause potentially immoral behavior by soldiers. 0 course, it's tough to buy that from any organization with the Tailhook Scandal in its history. Clinton is also getting resistance from Congress, some of whom are threatening to write the homosexual ban into law. And this is supposed to be Clinton's "honeymoon" period. If this is a honeymoon, I'd hate to see what the first dinner with the in-laws is like. Clinton's only other act this week seems to have been reversing Bush's "gag order" which said that federally funded clinics and physicians could not mention the word "abortion" to patients. When I heard this, I thought: Well. it's about time. Everyone else seems to think that Clinton has done something awful. Notre Dame Law School's very own Professor Doug Kmiec, who helped write the 'gag order' when he worked as a legal advisor to President Ronald Reagan. said that Clinton "blatantly violated the law." I have two questions for Kmiec: If abortion is legal, how can informing women of this fact be illegal? And, why do the words "sour grapes" come to mind? What else has happened while Americans were talking about these non-issues? Well: 
• 
Sears announced that it would be closing over 100 stores. 

• 
The aerospace industry is still in the economical toilet. 

• 
More people died needlessly in the Balkans and in Somalia. 

• 
People all over the country can still walk into any pawn shop with $50 and walk out with a gun, and 

• 
II. Hoss Perot is STILL appearing on Donahue. 


Now, are we going to help everyone in the Washington establishment realize that we have bigger fish to fry than whether doctors can say 'the a-word' and whether soldiers can admit that they're homosexual? 
Or am I missing something? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff: 
News Jen Habrych Etc. Michael O'Hara Kenya Johnson Don Modica Elisabeth Heard 
Production 
Jeanne Blasi 
Richard Riley Graphics Brendan Regan 
Sports 
Jonathan Jensen 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST: 
Sunny and cold with highs around 30. Lows tonight in teens. Increasing clouds and highs in 30s on Saturday. 
TEMPERATURES: 

H  l  
H  L  
29  21  
63  33  
68  41  
66  43  
39  30  
44  27  
54  45  
39  28  
53  34  
61  43  
52  43  
73  50  
61  36  
28  06  
25  10  
66  28  
37  27  
Paris  50  48  
FRONTS: Philadelphia  40  27  
Rome  57  36  
A A A Seattle • T T T South Bend  49 41  45 30  
'\J••~~C~O~LD:::..__ _::~:_::I\:R::.::M:__:_S_:_:TA_:_T:..:_IO:_N:_::f\:_::R:..:._Y:______________-:-__::.__;A:;----=--:f//"1 Tokyo  52  41  

I' 
Pressure 
H L 






TODAY AT AGLANCE 

NATIONAL Governor supports 'Hawaiian nation' 
• HONOLULU -Gov. John Waihee wants lawmakers to seek federal recognition of a "Hawaiian Nation" that would co-exist with the state but allow native Hawaiians to elect their own representatives. He also proposes giving that nation the island of Kahoolawe, a former military gunnery and bombing range about 10 miles southwest of the island of Maui. Waihee, Hawaii's first governor of native ancestry, devoted much of his annual state-of-the-state address Wednesday to the Hawaiian sovereignty issue. About 20 percent of Hawaii residents are natives. On Wednesday, Waihee asked the Legislature to join him in "aggressively seeking political recognition from the federal government for Hawaiians as a native people, just as all other native people throughout America are so recognized." He supported a plan by the state Office of Hawaiian Affairs to create a Hawaiian Congress. It would consider establishing a Hawaiian Nation, like a mainland Indian reservation, that would have its own elected representatives. 
Broadcaster Edward Morgan dies 

• WASHINGTON -Edward Morgan, a broadcast journalist and writer who reported for ABC, CBS and public television, died Wednesday of cancer at his home in suburban McLean, Va. He was 82. A native of Walla Walla, Wash., Morgan began his news career with the Seattle Star in 1932. Survivors include his daughter and two stepdaughters. 

OF INTEREST 

• "Eastern Standard," the Lewis Hall production will be performed in Washington Hall at 8:10p.m. on Jan. 28, 29, 30 and at 2:10 p.m. on Jan. 31. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student Center box office and are three dollars for students and five dollars for general public. All proceeds benefit AIDS awareness. 
• Tickets for Jesse Jackson's Feb. 5 lecture at 7 
p.m. in Stepan Center will be available at the LaFortune Student Center information desk and the Haggar College 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 28 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 283.127.535 +.06 to 242.53 

S&P COMPOSITE -.06 to 439.95 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +6.75 to 3,298.95 
GOLD -$1.20 to $329. 90/oz 
SILVER -$0.02 to $3.682/oz 
27

~ :; IWashington.D.C. 41 

Chief's husband cleared as suspect 
• BLOOMSBURG, Pa. -The husband of Bloomsburg University's police chief has been cleared in all but one of a series of rapes that terrorized the campus during the fall, state police said Thursday. Tests on genetic material show that Michael Heece Boykin, 41, isn't the rapist who attacked three female students in the fall of 1992. Boykin also isn't a suspect in a December 1991 rape; evidence was inadequate, state police said. ller husband remains charged with the Dec. 18 rape of a co­worker. The university has about 7,000 students is lo­cated about 100 miles northwest of Philadelphia. Boykin remains in prison in lieu of $75,000 bail. He was suspended from his university job in December. 


CAMPUS 

Marshall to be honored with tree 
• NOTRE DAME -The Th\)rgood Marshall Memorial Service will be held Saturday at 12 p.m. The Memorial will include planting a tree in honor of Marshall because "a tree is a symbol of hope and a manifestation of the continuity of life," said Karsonya Wise, graduate student. Wise will also lead the service which will include a libation, poems, a eulogy, an autobiography and a prayer. The service and tree-planting will occur behind Columba Hall at St. Joseph's Lake. Anyone with questions is asked to call 634-2125. 
front desk at Saint Mary's Feb. 1 through Feb. 5. The tickets are free and available on a first come, first serve basis, until all are distributed. Notre Dame students can pick up two tickets with one J.D. card between 9 a.m. and 10 p.m. Saint Mary's students can pick up one ticket per 
J.D. card, but each student may carry up to four J.D. cards. The Haggar desk is open between 9 a.m. and 4 
p.m. 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1850: Sen. Henry Clay proposed a compromise slavery bill, including admitting California as a free state. 

• 
In 1936: The first members of baseball's Hall of Fame were named in Cooperstown, N.Y. 

• 
In 1963: The first members of football's Hall of Fame were named in Canton, Ohio. 

• 
In 1983: Secretary of State George Shultz left on a 12-day tour of the Far East. 

• 
In 1990: Former Exxon Valdez skipper Joseph Hazelwood went on trial in Anchorage, Alaska, on charges stemming from the nation's worst oil spill. 

• 
In 1992: Russian President Boris Yeltsin unveiled a plan to cut nuclear weapons funding and said Russia's weapons would no longer be aimed at U.S. targets. 




~------------~--------------~------------------------------------~~------------------~---------------------­
Friday, January 29, 1993 

Packwood appears ready for attack against accusers 
SALEM, Ore. (AP) -Sen. Bob Packwood said Thursday he wouldn't rule out using details of his accusers· private lives and sexual histories in his defense against sexual miscon­duct allegations. 
Leaders of women's groups were outraged, saying the Ore­gon Republican was trying to bully his accusers. 
In an interview with The As­sociated Press, Packwood said · his attorneys would decide what evidence to present and the Senate Ethics Committee, which is investigating the alle­gations, will decide what evi­dence is admissible. 
Packwood, 60, appeared ready to defend himself vigor­ously against charges that he has made unwanted sexual ad­vances toward women staffers and others throughout his Se­nate career. 
The Washington Post pub­lished the allegations of 10 women Nov. 22, three weeks after Packwood won election to 



:k~ CR£-f.Yf 'lYALL
J;~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT ACOCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin a Hunan Culslnal 
UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 
ALL YOU CAN EAT$895 ~:~ $395 
lncludn Soup, Salad Bar, Appetlara, 8 Dlft'arant entrw. a Deasarta 
130 Dixie WayS., South Bend 272 7376 
to ll'andall'l Inn) • 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
PRESENTS: 
MIDNIGHT MONSTER MADNESS IN THE FORM OF ALL OUT WAR BETWEEN LATE NIGHT PAR­TICIPANTS. 
THE FIRST ANNUAL MIDNIGHT DODGE-BALL GAME 
WILL ERRUPT TONIGHT AT MIDNIGHT. 
PARTICIPANTS NEED TO SIGN IN BY 11:45 IN THE 
RECSPORTS OFFICE. 
SPECTATORS ARE HIGHLY ENCOURAGED TO COME 
AND WITNESS THIS MOST HISTORIC EVENT. 

his fifth term. Several other women have come forward since, but none publicly. 
Packwood has refused to dis­cuss specific allegations. In De­cember, he apologized, saying his actions were "just plain wrong." 
But this week, in his first visit to Oregon since the allegations were publicized, Packwood be­gan suggesting that he would challenge his accusers and that nothing would be off limits. He told reporters he had new in­formation about some of his ac­cusers. 
In the AP interview, he com­plained about accusations made against him anonymously in the media. 
"Is it fair that somebody complains about my conduct, but 'I don't want to be ques­tioned and I don't want any­body to put me under oath and I don't want to appear' and there should be no right to pre­sent any other information?" Packwood said. 
page 3
The Observer 




Hotek appointed 
to head SAB 
By KATIE CAPUTO Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Board of.Gover· nance {BOG) changed their se• lection process for the St~deP,t Activities Board (SAB} Coordi­nator from an election proc.e$s to one of applications and interviews.· Junior Jill Hot~k was chosen to replace JUlie Mc­Cormick beginning in April.. 
McCormick, the present SAB Coordinator, proposed tb'e change to BOG who voted to approve it. 
McCormick says that it is 

Candidates set for ND election 
By EMILY HAGE The candidiates are: · News Writer • junior Stephanie Gallo from Lyons Halland Christopher 
An unusually large number of Browning from Sorin Hall six candiadtes are running •juniors Frank Flynn from v=fro Student Body president Stanford Hall and Nikki and vice-president this year. "It Wellmann is very exciting that there is this •juniors David Reinke and much interest iin being involved Lara Dickey in Student Government," said •sophomores Christophjer Andrea Sullivan, election Karian and Emily Bloss commisioner with Andrew •sophomores Joseph Karaian Alfers. Sullivan said," everyone and Samuel Thomas is being very conscientious and •juniors Tom Kovats and ethical about the election." Michael Connelly from Dillon, 

Events focus on eating disorders 
By ALISON DASSO AND JASON WILLIAMS News Writers 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will kick-off a week full of activities and speakers Sunday in recognition of Eating Disorders Awareness Week. 
The expansion of nationwide education on eating disorders has led to this initial Eating Dis­orders We.ek (Jan. 31-Feb. 7) including the establishment of a National Eating Disorders Day (Feb. 3). 

more advantageous to. have the .!ielecpon f'or this particular po­sition done t:t1rough the appli­e~t~on {)l'oce$~. An application process takes into account the C)(p(;l~ience required to effec· tively coordinate events and Is needed ·to be an effective 
··· CotitdinatOr. Elections al· low. qualifled or.nq;t. t()fill the n. · 
.·.··· •. ij:c~oJ!llliclt'.'s prpsent board~. htiwevet; will continue their plan~ thr;()ugh the remainder of the School year. · ·"Jj}L:w:as cho!ie:n because sh(;l 
is energetic and enthusiastic, 
"The majority of people with problems don't seek the help that they need," said Rita Don­ley, assistant director of the University Counseling Center. "Our goal is to change people's attitudes and niake them be­lieve that eating disorders are diseases that can be cured." 
Nancy Schoeneman, assistant Director of the Counseling and Career Development Center at Saint Mary's said that "This week is a national effort to raise people's awareness about the issue of eating disorders. Peo­ple, both men and women, are getting a lot of pressure from the media to look a certain way and that image has never been so difficult from the way people actually look." 
Both Schoeneman and Donley noted the increase in ea-ting disorders during the last few years on both campuses. Donley said the largest number of freshman students who come to the Counseling Center do so because of eating disorders. 
"There is an increase in the number of students coming forth with eating problems na­tionwide," said Schoeneman. "It's relevant for all of us. People can and do die from these illnesses." 
• Included in the schedule of events for the week is a talk by Donley. Her lecture will be 

(f)..,t>f-, ~~~ ~· 

AfaJJ,n llfBmvoUMMf ~ 
Fri: 5:00, 7:00, 9•00 li'WI Fri: 5:15, 7•30, 9:30 Sa1·Sun•1:00, 3:00. 5•00. 7•00, 1!:!!J Sat-Sun• US, 3•15, 5:15,7:30, 9:00 9:30 





HEXED ALIVE 
Based on a true story 
Fri: 7:30, 10:00 

IRJ IRJ
Fri.: 7:00, 9:45 . Sat-Sun: US, 3:15.5:15,7:30, ~ Sat-Sun. 1.30. 4.30, 7.00. 9.45 ~ 10:00 
who  are  running  as  co­ 
presidents.  
Candidates  can  begin  

campaigning on Feb 1, and debates will be held on Feb 3 at the ball room at LaFortune. Candidates will answer questions fro representatives from The OBserver, The Scholastic, and WSND, in addition to the general audience. 
Elections will be held on Feb 8, and overseas studewtns will be able to vote by fax. 
and she has put together suc­cessful events inthe past," Mc­Cormick said. 
Hotek is in tho process of forming her own board which will formulate events for the next school year. She said she hopes to have it completed by the end of March. She already has several ideas and goals she woUld like for her board to be­gin planning . 
"I want to continue to keep planning and programing events that involve as many students as possible," said Hotek. 
"Private Body Talk: Promoting Positive Body Image." 
• 
HOPE program coordinator Dr. Valerie Staples will deliver a talk on "Causes of and Recovery from Eating Disorders". 

• 
Shelli Yoder, 1992s Miss Indiana, who received a mas­ters in interpersonal communi· cation from Northwestern Uni­versity, will speak about her experiences with an eating dis­order. 

• 
"Exercise: Fitness or Ob­session?" will be the topic of a talk given by Dr. Jo-Ann Nester, Director of Saint Mary's athletic 


·department. 
• 
Chris Nelson from the Notre Dame Counseling Center will give friends and family mem­hers of people who have eating disorders information about how to aid their loved ones. 

• 
The week will conclude Sunday, Feb. 7 when HOPE therapist-dietician Becky Cook presents a lecture "Healthy Di· eting." 


Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center, the Center for Women's Alliance, the Notre Dame University Counseling Center, and Healthy Options for Problem Eaters (HOPE) of South Bend Memorial Hospital will co-sponsor the fWents. 
For a schedule of events see page 11 of The Observer. 

t :· :{• $3.50~-o---'-­

NOWHERE TO RUN 

~~---------------------~-------~----------------------~--~ 
page 4 The Observer Friday,January 29, 1993 
Chizhkov: CIS has undergone radical changes 
By KAREN DUBAY News Writer 
The relations between indi­viduals, the state, and civil so­ciety have undergone the most changes since the fall of Com­munism said Sergei Lvovich Chizhkov from the Russian Academy of Sciences yesterday in a lecture "The Crisis of Legit­imacy and Perspectives for a New Political Consensus in Russia. 
lie said that the "liberal ideas and arguments are accessible to us only now: at a time of deep crisis". He likened Hussia's progress in forming a new infrastrueture to that of Europe in 1848. The obstacles that 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
controversies, Whelan states she will "go with the survey results" that are currently being eollected. Her tieket favors the de-tex implementation along with the honor system. 
Wilkinson and O'Donnell, too, are interested in student input on this issue. Wilkinson "feels strongly" about leaving IDs at front desks until the de-lex sys­tem is implemented. 
The issue of growing numbers of students moving off-campus was raised. Whelan and Peters said a large eontributing faetor is the dining hall meal program, which many students feel is inconvenient. Whelan favors the dining hall offering "diffnrent meal plans" for the different needs of active students. She said the de-tex system is limiting for students as well. She wants to "make 
Bus 
continued from page 1 
mph." A truck driver reported 1 that the bus passed his rig two miles west of the accident site I at 55 mph or faster, aecording 1 to the report. 
In April, St. Joseph County I Prosecutor Michael Barnes said I grand juries often charge reckless homicide. "Reckless I homicide calls for conduct that I is heedless disregard for the safety or well-being of others, I an almost intentional act," he said. I 
Barnes could not be reached 1 for comment Thursday. 
students feel practical about staying on eampus". 
Wilkinson said that "freedom and visitation hours" affect many choices. She said that extra activities on campus would eneourage more students to remain in on-campus housing. 
In response to the situation of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross relations, Wilkinson believes we must start first with the individual, encourage re­spect on a personal level, and continue "working on mindset". 
Whelan believes that relations are improving, and she wants to see more activity on the Saint Mary's campus, "campaigning" with students throughout the year to publicize events. 
Whelan, a junior, is the Spiritual Commissioner for the Board of Governance, and Peters is a sophomore transfer student from Central Missouri State University. 
Wilkinson, a junior, is vice­president of Academic Affairs, 




r----------------,I
I 
have hindered and continue to affect progress in the political consensus of Russia. 
Chizhkov s_tressed the fea­tures of the crisis in December 1992 to portray the current state of affairs. The govern­ment was blamed by both the legislature and the people for the apparent recession of pro­duction as well as the wide­spread impoverishment. 
Chizhkov mentioned some arguments against the fact that the eonditions were worsening. 
He pointed out that the drop in machinery building was off­set by the general boom in other industries as well as con­siderable growth in the con-
I

232-9299 I 
I

American Cab Co. I 
"Frequent Rider Cardn I I 

''We appreciate your business" 1 
Call ahead for prearranged pick-up I
I 

L----------------~ 
ICEBERG DEBATES  
ROUNDS 1AND 2  
ROUND ONE:  "Resolved, that the ban on homosexuals in the United States Military should be lifted."  
ROUNDlWO:  "Resolved. that the University of Notre Dame should recognize  



pro-choice student groups." 
The first dorm listed has an affirmative posllion and is the location for that particular debate. 
ROUND ONE 
Pangborn v. Sorin Siegfried v. Zahm St. Ed's v. Breen-Phillips Badin v. Stanford Alumni A v. Keenan Dillon v. Morrissey Fisher v. Alumni B 
Round One will be held at 9:00 PM on Monday. February 1. Round Two will be held at 9:00PM on Wednesday. February 3. 9 
.em~ 
ROUNDTINO 
Alumni B v. Siegfried Sorin v. Alumni A Zahm v. Pangborn Stanford v. St. Ed's Breen -Phillips v. Badin Morrissey v. Fisher Keenan v. Dillon 

sumption of eleetricity in indus­tries. He pointed out that unemployment is currently only at one to two percent. The Russian industrial society is not completely falling apart accord­ing to Chizhkov. 
Chizhkov said that the main problem with Russian govern­ment is that the legislature has too much power. The Congress took offense in the past year and stripped President Boris Yeltsin of many powers as well as reduced the powers of various cabinets. Yeltsin responded with, "Let the people choose between the Congress and me." 
This confrontation frightened 
and O'Donnell, a Junior Board Hepresentative, see their hoped-for positions as "positions of service". 
Their platform favors increased dialogue between students and their student government, promoting open forums for frequent student input and feedback. They "want more activities on the Saint Mary's eampus", as well as increased security. They want to encourage multiculturalism through a type of cultural awareness month program, where there would be lectures on a particular culture and "dorms (would) decorate for that culture". 
Peters' main focus for the year would be to encourage studenVprofessor relationships, ~ encouraging clubs to promote interaetion through luncheons and activities. 
Whelan and Peters want to make students "feel that Saint Mary's is a place for them". 
The Wilkinson and O'Donnell the people and served to mark an essential problem in the ef­fort to restructure Hussia. This problem is the crisis of the dis­tribution of power. This erisis has posed many questions of the very nature of state power and the essence of democracy, he said. 
The autocratic regime that was intact before the "revolution" had few limita­tions, but its power was undi­vided, he said. Chizhkov said the only way to improve the si­tuation in Russia and to elimi­nate the crisis of power is to hold a new constitutional assembly. 
At this assembly, he said an 
platform aims to initiate a comprehensive recycling program. They also want to improve and encourage links between Saint Mary's alumnae and students through "one-on­one relationships" as well as actively incorporating them in daily Saint Mary's life through guest speaking and lectures. 
O'Donnell's focus for the year would be to work on equalizing the senior comprehensive requirement between academic departments, coordinating them and making them more standard. She feels this "will probably take all year". 
ideal division of power, which would grant the executive and judicial branches as much power as the legislature cur­rently has, would be most effi­cient and democratic. As an expert in the field of human rights, Chizhkov stressed that without a strong judicial branch, human rights powers will undoubtedly be wide­spread. 
Under Mikhail Gorbachev, Chizhkov held many positions as an expert in the field of hu­man rights. lie is a current adviser of the Commonwealth of Independent States and one of his country's leading political thinkers. 
Isreal 
continued from page1 

"I would say that for the last 35 years the United States has made every effort to prevent sanctions against Israel," Habin said. "No doubt, in this case when no one was injured, when no one died ... it will be unbelievable that the United States will support sanctions." 
At the deportees' tent camp in south Lebanon, spokesman Dr. Abdul Aziz Hantisi de­nounced Israeli officials as "Nazis." 
Newly Remodeled Notre Dame Apartments Now Renting for August 1993 





Models Open 
Mon.~Fri. 3~6p.m. Saturday I~6p.m. Stop by and see tfre changes we frave made! 
Great Rental Rates For More Information Call: 
MATTEO ENTERPRISES 
232~8256 

~~========~~~~~~~ 
Ill 





::z: 
.... 


HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1993-94 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIFS APPLICATION DEADLINE IS fEBRUARY 19, 1993 
Friday, January 29, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Knott·begins Medallion fundraiser 
By SIOBHAN MCCARTHY News Writer 
If reports of masked individ­uals bearing flashlights and crawling around on campus­area rooftops abound during the week of Feb. 8-12, don't be alarmed. 
It's time once again for the annual Knott Hall Medallion Hunt. 
The lucky winner of the hunt, scheduled to take place during the week of Feb. 8-12, will re­ceive a romantic dinner for four at Tippecanoe Place Restaurant. 
Students can sign up to par­ticipate during lunch hours at the North and South Dining Halls Feb. 1-5. The registra­tion cost is one dollar, and reg­istering participants will be given a Notre Dame button and an official set of hunt guide­lines. All proceeds go to the Catholic Worker House. 
Students must register in 

:~~~ uuuuul 
• • •111! ~~~~11111 
..., 
order to participate in the hunt, which lasts through Feb. 12, or until someone finds the medal­lion. "If (students) haven't reg­istered, then they won't be eli­gible to win the prize," said hunt chairman sophomore Michelle Crouch. 
Four-line, rhyming clues indicating the location of the Medallion will be 'posted each day at noon on a bulletin board in LaFortune Student Center. The glass-encased bulletin board lies directly across from the elevator on the first floor of the building. 
The previous day's clues will also be published each day in the the Of Interest section in The Observer. Hunt organizers decided to change the process of publishing the clues in The Observer in order to make the hunt more fair to all partic­ipants. 
The finder of the Medallion should return it to the Knott Hall lobby between the hours of 7-8 p.m. Wednesday through Friday. 
The Medallion, described as a "flat, silver metal disc" by Crouch, will be hidden some­where on campus. The clues will become increasingly more specific as the week goes on. 
1993 organizers have high expectations for the hunt fol­lowing the success of 1992, which boasted over 300 partic­ipants in the hunt's debut. 
Last year's winner was junior Greg Goger from Morrissey Hall. The Medallion was hid­den "between the slabs of a bench" next to the Center for Social Concerns, according to sophomore Sara Skalicky, vice president of Knott Hall. 
The purpose of starting the 
. hunt was to make a reputation for the fledgling dorm. Knott Hall officers wanted to "get our name on the map as a dorm," according to Skalicky. "We think it served our pur­pose. We want to keep it there and make it as popular as pos­sible," added Skalicky. 


Computing center to offer Virtual Machine seminars 
By MARK KREJCI News Writer 
The Office of University Com­puting (OUC) is holding a type of "electronic town hall" through seminars two days a month on the use of VM (Virtual Machine), an IBM computer operation system. 
The "VM User" seminars will be informal meetings held the third Wednesday and Thursday of every month until June. 
These seminars will discuss various aspects of VM ranging from e-mail to databases. Those attending the seminars are encouraged to give input into how the system could be improved. 
The first seminar was held Jan. 20-21. More staff than students attended, but among the students, all colleges were represented. 
According to Nick Laflamme, VM Lead Systems Programmer 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS/SERVICES PRACTICE: 
Business Analysts 
A.T. KEARNEY, INC. is a leading international management consulting finn, with offices in sixteen countries. The FIISP group of Kearney advises top management of leading financial institutions worldwide, including commercial banking, insurance, 
and investment banking companies, as well as technology providers servicing the industry. 
WE ARE strategy consultants whose services include the 
positioning of clients' fmancial products, business strategy, restructuring, and advisory work. Through our work for major players in the industry, we are taking an active role in shaping 
the future of financial services. 
WE BELIEVE that the nature of the problems confronting our clients requires exceptionally talented and creative individuals. As a result, our standards are extraordinarily high, especially in the areas of intellectual achievement, independence of thought, motivation, initiative, integrity, and common sense. In particular, we require a very high tolerance for ambiguity and rapidly changing unstructured situations. 
WE ARE LOOKING for characteristics not limited to any particular cours~ of study; rather, we value a record of high achievement in a selected few academic and extracurricular 
activities. A profile of our '92 class of analysts follows: 
MAJORS INCLUDE: history, engineering, economics, foreign languages, government, business, and mathematics. 
EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES INCLUDE: campus publications, community service work, intercollegiate and intramural sports, leadership in fraternal organizations and 
honor societies, and student government. 
Resumes and a cover letter from interested seniors should be sent by February 8, 1993 To: 
Robert M. Rudy 
A.T. Kearney, Inc. 
222 West Adams Street Chicago, Illinois 60606 
of University Computing, the seminars are for "anybody who is using VM or thinking about it." 
Laflamme said that the com­mon applications for "casual users" of the VM system are e­mail, "NO Info", a campus computer bulletin, and statisti­cal packages like SAS and SPSS. 
The system has been in place at NO for two and a half years, and has grown to have 400 10 users. Any student, faculty member, or staff member can obtain a VM user 10 from the OUC at no charge. 
VM is a "general, multipur­pose academic and research computer system" which trans­lates into power for computers, said Laflamme. 
The system is named "Virtual Machine" since being an 10 user is "virtually" like having your own mainframe computer. 
"If your PC is not big enough to run its .own packages like e­mail, the Fortran compiler, or the SAS program, they can use the VM programs," said Laflamme. 
"The OUC tries to make VM and its functions available 24 hours a day," said Laflamme, "The attitude (of the OUC) is to count on us... If we can fix it, especially if it's our fault, we will." 
The VM seminar will be in the "netDemo 93" Feb. 10 at 
2:30 p.m. in DeBartolo. 


PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ''0"'$fQ9 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH "•"'$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ,."'s Sf 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT "om$f29 
2, SAND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS "•m$fJ2 
SAND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND fmm$f2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE fmm$f46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 





--~~-~------------r---­
~ -~-­
page 6 The Observer Friday, January 29, 1993 

Study: Drop in 'risky' action after Johnson revelation 
Experts: Violence fails to shake up TV status quo 
SAN FHANCISCO (AP) ­
Television has failed to react to 
the racial violence that bloodied 
Los Angeles last year, remain­
ing indifferent to the needs of 
an ethnically diverse America, 
industry members said Thurs­
day. 
The performance of Los An­geles TV stations is "God aw­ful," Fox News President Van Gordon Sauter said during a panel discussion at the National Assodation of Television Pro­gram Executives convention. 
"Hut you could just as well go to most television markets in this country and find local tele­vision that is totally unrespon­sive to the pressing urban re­quirements of our day," Sauter said. 
The rioting that followed last April's acquittal of four white Los Angeles police officers in the beating of black motorist Hodney King should have cre­ated a new sensitivity to social problems, panelists said. 
But the lack of minority exec­utives at the highest TV net­work levels and television's his­tory work against change, they said. 
The riots started on April 29, a few hours after four white po­lice officers were acquitted of nearly all charges in the March 3, 1991, beating of black mo­torist Hodney King. 
The riots left 54 dead, over 1,500 people injured and caused nearly $1 billion in damage. 
"Television's been doing the same thing for 40 years and 
=1TilE VIHITY llllfiP 
Hair Designers 
Say you saw us in The Observer Haircut $6.00 with Student 1.0. 

277,Q057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 
keeps doing the same thing." said David Chase, executive producer of the acclaimed NBC series "I'll Fly Away," set in the early days of the civil rights struggle. 
The industry nervously shies away from what American finds "disturbing," Chase said. He also questioned viewers' willingness to accept serious programming. 
The scarcity of blacks and other minorities in decision­making roles also allows TV to ignore non-white perspectives, panel members said. 
Until blacks are in control as executive producers and writ­ers, "we won't have the oppor­tunity to see our side of the story," said Don Jackson, president of Central City Pro­ductions Inc.. a black-oriented production firm. 
Tim Reid, an Emmy-nomi­nated actor and a producer of shows including 1987s "Frank's Place," said his vantage point as a resident of a small Southern town shows him people have changed -even if TV has not. 
"People are willing and ready for new options," Reid said. Those options can be found in so-called "niche" channels outside of network television, such as Black Entertainment Television, he said. 
Moderator Carole Simpson of ABC News agreed that the me­dia underestimated the public's interest in issues and events, including the presidential elec­tion. 

ATLANTA (AP) -Fewer peo-the data at the end." pie in a Maryland clinic re-The CDC questioned 283 peo· ported having one-night stands pie at a clinic for sexually and multiple sexual partners transmitted diseases in Mont­after basketball star Magic gomery County, Md., from July Johnson announced he had the 29. 1991, through Feb. 14, AIDS virus, according to a study 1992. The agency asked how released Thursday. · often in the last three months 
The researchers didn't men-each person had a one-time tion Johnson when they ques-... . sexual encounter or had three tioned the people. That made wor more sexual partners, both 
the study the first to track re­action to a celebrity revelation about AIDS without creating a bias, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. 
"There have been a number of other studies where people asked, 'Did you change your sexual behavior because of Magic Johnson?'" said Linda IValleroy, a CDC epidemiologist. "That's a more loaded question. 
"We were in the middle of a risk behavior study when Magic Johnson made the an­nouncement, and we didn't change our questions. We were kind of blind to it until we saw risky behaviors for AIDS transmission. They also were asked how often they used condoms, an AIDS prevention measure. 
On Nov. 7. 1991. Johnson, who played professional bas­ketball with the Los Angeles Lakers, announced that he had HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. That happened to be the midpoint of the study. 
Of the 186 people surveyed before Johnson's announce­ment, 31 percent reported hav• ing one-night stands in the previous three months and 32 percent reported three or more sexual partners, the CDC said. 

After the announcement, 20 percent of the 97 people sur­veyed reported one-night stands and 21 percent reported three or more partners, the CDC said. 
"Statistically, that's a very significant drop," Valle roy said. 
The last 24 people in the study were the only ones who were surveyed a full three months after Johnson's an­nouncement, and they had the biggest drop in risky behavior, the CDC said. It didn't provide exact figures. 
"We can't prove that the drops were totally due to Magic Johnson, but they occurred after his announcement and during aU the intense media reporting about AIDS that fol­lowed it," Valleroy said. "That's a pretty loud message." 
However, Johnson's an~ nouncement didn't appear to affect condom use. the CDC said. 





Daytona Beach Spring Break '93 will feature spirited debates 
No one prepares you for the MCAT better than Kaplan. Our MCAT 

prep cou,.... teaches you exactty what the t-t coven~ and the teat· 
on subjects including the Miss Hawaiian Tropic® Beauty Pageant, 
taking •kills you'll need to 1000re your best. We offet live cl--, 

body-building contests and a whole lot more. It'll be Darwin's 
~ •tudy not-, and audio review. Ph.m, no one e1... has a more 
theory of natural selection at its most entertaining along
exte,.iva MCA T ......,urce library than Kaplan. 
BlillfAal. BIG Rfi

the 23 miles of Daytona Beach. For more information, call 1-800-854-1234 for your free Spring Break Planning Kit. 
·--­




KAPLAN 
The ~~n•wer to the te•t qu-tion. 

Friday, January 29, 1993 The Observer page 7 
Croats capture key dam as conflict spreads 

ZAGREB, Croatia (AP) ­Serb-Croat clashes spread to a new front along the Adriatic on Thursday as Croatia's army pushed ahead with its quest to retake territory. In one surge, Croats retook a U.N.-protected dam. 
Fighting also raged in the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia, where Serbs, Croats and Muslims are at war. Peace talks in Geneva on Bosnia's fu­ture remained paralyzed. 
The deteriorating situation prompted the United Nations to consider withdrawing its peacekeepers from Croatia, a step that might remove the final barrier to renewed, full-scale war in the republic. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

In a sign of escalating vio­
That is debateable 
lence and growing problems for foreign troops, 80 Kenya11
Saint Mary's student Melissa Whelan along with her running-mate Melissa Peters present their platform at 
peacekeepers abandoned an
the presidential debate last night. Whelan and Peters are running against Mary Beth Wilkinson and Lynn 
important hydroelectric dam as
O'Donnell. 
Croatian forces advanced on the site, about 20 miles north of the Adriatic port of Split. 
U.S. envoy accuses U.N. for delay 
Meanwhile, an eight-ship 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­
U.S. special envoy Robert Oak­ley accused the United Nations on Wednesday of "dragging its feet" on taking over military command in Somalia from the United States. 
He said the United States and other nations were pressing 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to name a re­spected independent mediator to help Somalia's warring fac­tions on the road to peace. 
"There's a quiet, collective push to get Mr. Boutros-Ghali to do for Somalia what he seems to be comfortable with in Bosnia," said Oakley. 
Boutros-Ghali appointed former U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance last August to seek a negotiated settlement to the war in Bosnia. Vance is working alongside Lord Owen, a former British foreign secretary who is the European Community mediator. 
"It doesn't have to be Vance and Owen, but someone of in­dependent stature," Oakley said in an interview. "It would make the United Nations a lot stronger ... and it would fit very nicely with the idea of having a military commander flying the 
U.N. flag." 
The United Nations has had two special envoys to Somalia, a post currently held by Ismat Kittani, an Iraqi. It was not clear whether Oakley meant to imply criticism of Kittani. 
Oakley, a former U.S. ambas­sador to Somalia, was brought out of retirement by former President Bush to help oversee operation Restore Hope, 

launched to feed Somalia's starving. 
Many relief officials also be­lieve a commanding interna­tional figure is crucial to bring­ing a lasting peace to Somalia. An independent mediator would also help allay fears among many Somalis of another U.N. takeover of their country, which was a U.N. trusteeship from 1950 to 1960. 
"I am all for it because I be­lieve it's too big a job for the quality of U.N. personnel that are here," said Mike McDonagh, field director for the Irish relief agency Concern. 
Oakley said the United States had restored enough security since the Marines arrived on Dec. 9 for a U.N. commander to begin taking power. He said he believed President Clinton en­dorses this view. 
French naval task force is steaming toward the Adriatic on a "mission of protection." 
Ten French peacekeepers who were trapped in Serb­Croat cross-fire were evacuated to safety by a U.N. convoy Thursday, but France still has 2,500 peacekeepers in Croatia, the most of any country. It did not mention evacuating them. 
U.N. 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said the military offensive begun by the Croats last week "has placed the entire peace process in the region in jeopardy." He hinted Wednesday that the 16,000 

U.N. 
peacekeepers and related forces might be withdrawn from Croatia. 


The Croatian army is trying to regain territory Serbs refused to cede in accordance with the U.N.-brokered truce that ended a six-month civil war in Croatia 
one year ago. The reasons behind the tim­
Ambassador killed, soldiers riot in Zaire 
ing of its offensive, which began 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast (AP)­France's ambassador to Zaire was killed by a stray bullet Thursday during a looting rampage by soldiers in Kin­shasa, the French Foreign Ministry said. 
A bullet fired through his of­fice window killed 61-year-old Philippe Bernard, the ministry said in Paris, citing preliminary information from its embassy in the Zairean capital. Bernard was posted to Zaire in Decem­ber. 
Residents of Kinshasa said roving bands of soldiers fired guns in the air and looted shops and foreigners' homes, sending hundreds of people fleeing from the city center. French officials said some of the roughly 1,000 French citizens in Kinshasa had 

APPLICATIONS for FRESHMAN ORIENTATION and TRANSFER ORIENTATION COMMISSIONERS and GENERAL COMMITTEES ARE NOW AVAILABLE FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
FORMS SHOULD BE RETURNED BY FRIDAY FEBRUARY 5 

INTERVIEWS WILL BE CONDUCTED ON WEDNESDAY 2/10 and THURSDAY 2/11 
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR WOULD LIKE MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CALL STU· DENT GOVERNMENT AT 631·7668, OR STOP BY 203 LAFORTUNE 
in U.N.-patroled areas, remain
taken refuge in the embassy 
unclear. But Croatian President Franjo Tudjman is under domestic pressure to win back lost territory, and his party faces parliamentary elections Feb. 7. 
The U.N. Security Council has threatened sanctions unless the Croats withdraw to their old positions. But Tudjman has refused to order a pullback un­less Serb militias in the region are disarmed. 
There was no sign Thursday that either side would com­promise. 
The surge in fighting threat­ens to make a shambles of peace talks on Bosnia, taking place in Geneva under U.N. and European Community auspices. Conference spokesman Fred Eckhard said Thursday there had been no progress because of the latest clashes. 
The leader of Bosnia's rebel Serbs, Radovan Karadzic, said in Geneva that he would ap­prove a peace deal for Bosnia on Saturday "with some very small changes." But a Bosnian government official and con­ference sources dismissed talk of a breakthrough. 
The talks, scheduled to re­sume Saturday, are expected to focus on the entire peace pack­age, including a controversial plan to break the nation into 10 autonomous provinces. 
The multitude of clashes and the prospect of a U.N. pullout could unleash much more fighting across the Balkans, possibly drawing in neighboring Albania and Macedonia and spreading to Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey. 
After a day of confusing re­ports about whether Croatian troops or Serb rebels started the battle at the key Peruca dam, Croats reported taking over the structure, which is vi­tal for the southern coast's elec­tricity supply. 
The dam was taken by Serbs during the fighting in 1991, which claimed about· 10,000 lives. 

compound. Diplomats reached by tele­

SECURITY BEAT
phone said gunfire could still be heard and they were deluged with calls for help from their nationals. The U.S., French and Belgian embassies in Zaire urged people to stay at home. 
Looting by unpaid troops in late 1991 spread across Zaire and left at least 100 people dead. Belgium sent paratroop­ers to evacuate more than 20,000 foreigners from this sprawling Central African na­tion. 





Business 
page 8 Friday, January 29, 1993 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Number of blue-collar jobs decreases 
• WASHINGTON-America entered the 1990s with more than three times as many lawyers as firefighters, the government said Thursday. The 1990 census found the white· collar workforce expanded by more than a third from 10 years earlier, whilf:l blue-collar jobs actually declined, the Census Bureau reported. And overall, for the first time, there were more people performing executive, professional or technical than those making or transporting goods. That's a mirror image of America 10 years earlier, when skilled blue-collar workers were the larger group. Nearly one worker in three was an executive, technician or professional, in 1990, compared to one in four in 1980. 

Clinton unsure of his deficit goals 
• WASHINGTON-President Clinton said today he's unsure he can meet his goal of cutting the deficit by $145 billion without raising taxes, but should have an answer when he outlines his plan to Congress next month. ''I've not made any decisions yet" on whether to include a tax on energy consumption as part of the plan, Clinton said. Such a tax had been mentioned as a strong possibility by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. "I'm going to give a speech to the joint session Feb. 17 and I'm going to lay out my program then," Clinton said at a picture-taking session as he met with chairmen of congressional budget, appropriations and tax-writing 
committt~es. 
U.S. Steel Industry jobs hurt by imports 
• WASHINGTON-The Commerce Department tentatively determinod Wednesday that Canada, Japan and 17 other countries were exporting unfairly priced steel into the United States, and it set retaliatory steps in motion. A U.S. industry group inducting Bethlehem Steel and LTV Corp. said the docislon "c.onfirms that foreign producers are unfairly dumping millions of tons of flat-rolled steel in the United States -a practice which has cost thousands of American jobs." But foreign produeers described the action as misguided. Peter Suchman, a Washington attorney representing Hoogovens, a stelll makor in the Netherlands, said shortages could result in the United States and prices would be driven up. 

Labor fines chemical plant $5.1 miltion 
• WASHINGTON-The Labor Department proposed a $5.1 million fine Wednesday for aJleged violations resulting in a Louisiana chemical plant explosion last summer. The violent July 28 blast at the Arcadian Corp.'s Westlake. La., plant injurfld seven people, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration said, and was felt 10 miles away. OSHA said the company had continued to operate the plant, which manufactures ammonia and urea. a fertilizer, after detecting a leak in a reactor. OSHA cited the company for 144 safety and health violations, including exposing the plant's employees to hazards likely to cause death or serious physical harm. 
WASHINGTON (API -Three regional telephone companies asked the Federal Communi­cations Commission on Wednesday to investigate the proposed merger of American Telephone & Telegraph and McCaw Cellular Communica­tions. 
The proposed merger "raises competitive and public interest concerns of the most fundamental kind," Bell At­lantic charged in a petition filed with the FCC in conjunction with NYNEX and Southwestern Bell. 
The proposal would combine the company that dominates the long distance market with the nation's largest provider of wireless services. noted S. Mark Tuller, vice president-general counsel and secretary of Bell 

Greenspan endorses deficit plans 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Fed­
eral Reserve Chairman Alan 
Greenspan endorsed President 
Clinton's deficit reduction goals 
on Thursday and said long­
term interest rates would fall 
dramatically it.they were met. 
After a White House meeting with Clinton, Greenspan told the Senate Budget Committee that the new administration's program, which Clinton will unveil on Feb. 17, appeared to be in line with changes the Fed believes are necessary to cope with the economy's problems. 
Greenspan said the Fed's target for the economy "does not differ from the goal the new president is carrying forward in his program." 
IIe said that if financial mar­kets perceive that the combina­tion of tax increases and spend­ing cuts needed to reduce the deficit were credible then it would result in an immediate drop in long-term interest rates. 
He said the resulting decline in home mortgage rates and corporate financing costs would stimulate the economy far more than any short-term program Congress could enact. 
"If the markets perceive that this issue (the deficit) is being addressed, we could get a very 
dramatic decline in long-term 
rates," Greenspan told sena­
tors. 

The new administration had been actively seeking Greenspan's endorsement of its program of modest economic stimulus this year followed by tax increases and spending increases to cut the deficit by $145 billion by 1996. The deficit is expected to hft a record $327 billion this year. 
Specifically asked how much the deficit should be cut, Greenspan said that the $145 billion goal mentioned by Clin­ton was not "off base" for a figure the markets would con­sider credible. 
He said more important than the specifie dollar amount of deficit cuts was the need to "hard-wire" the savings by changing laws to ensure the deficit cuts were realized. 
The new administration, seeking to engender a new spirit of cooperation with the Fed, invited Greenspan to the White House on Thursday for a meeting with the president and his top economic team. 
Referring to thousands of new layoffs announced this week by some of America's biggest companies, Clinton said, "There 
is also a lot of troubling news 
about lost jobs. We've got a lot 
of work to do." 
Clinton had his top economic advisers attend the session, in­cluding Treasury Secrntary Lloyd Bentsen, Budget Director Leon Panetta and Hobert Hubin. head of Clinton's new National Economic Council, the White I louse group that is supposed to coordinate administration economic policies. 
Clinton spokesman George Stephanopoulos characterized the meeting as a "good general discussion on the economic conditions we face right now and the goals for the future." 
lie said that Clinton was 
very gratified" with Greenspan's indication of gnn­eral support for the new admin­istration's economic goals. 
The administration is anxious to receive Greenspan's seal of approval because of the weight such an endorsement would earry in financial markets. So, Clinton aides have worked hard to keep Greenspan informed of their progress in developing a program. Greenspan met alone with Bentsen on Wednnsday, resuming the regular weekly meetings between the Fed chairman and the Trnasury seeretary. 

Proposed AT&T merger raises concern 
Banks improving, but problems remain 
WASlllNGTON (AI')-The heads of two congressional agendes urged lawmakers and thn Clinton administration on Wednesday not to be in a rush to heed banking industry calls for lighter regulation. 
Tlw finandal condition of the industry has improved dramat­kally in tlw past year. but difli­culties remain. said Charles Bowsher of the General Ac­counting Offil:e and Hobert Hnisehauer of tlw Congressional Budget Office. 
"It is too soon to conclude that problems in the industry are over," Bowsher told the Senate Banking Committee. 
Dnspite record profits during the first nine months of 1992, many problem loans remain on banks' books, lw said. 
lie cautioned that "the cur­rnnt internst-rate environment that has helped the industry to be profitable could ehange quiekly and rurrnnt accounting ruins limit tlw accuracy of re­ported financial information." 
Bowsher said the so-called credit crunch undoubtedly is real, but he said it's not clear how severe it is or nxaetly what caused it. lie said his agency by late spring would have recom­mendations for easing banks' paperwork, but he urged law­makers to proceed with great caution. 
"Over time, a healthy banking industry is the best support for the economy, and it would be foolish. in my opinion, to at­tempt to periodically weaken and tightm1.bank regulation," he said. 
Heisehauer agreed. saying, "The stricter regulators are in the short run ... the stronger the industry will be in the long run; the more lenient regula­tors are now, the weaker the industry will be later." 
Sen. Donald Hiegle Jr., D­Mich., chairman of the commit­tee, said he too was concerned that "some in the industry may bn using the banner of burden reduction to hide an agenda that runs contrary to the inter­ests of American taxpayers and consumers." 
But other committee mem­bnrs, particularly from states where the recovery from the recession has been slower, 

were much more critical of regulators and said toughened rules were blocking loans to creditworthy and job-creating small businesses. 
"We cannot hope to revitalize our economy if banks do not make credit available to small businesses that are the engine of economic growth and em­ployment," said Sen. Alfonse D'Amato of New York, the se­nior Hepublican on the commit­tee. 
"Bankers are scared to death of the regulators.... People call them tyrants," said Sen. Hichard Shelby, D-Ala. 
IIe cited a study by the Inde­pendent Bankers Association of America, a trade group for lo­cally owned and operated banks. It found 9,700 commu­nity banks pay $3.2 billion a year, 24 percent of their net in­come, to comply with just 13 sets of regulations. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., said he and other senators were eireulating a letter to Clinton urging him to ease capi­tal requirements for banks. Capital is the financial cushion that absorbs bank losses. 
Atlantic Mobile, the cellular 
branch of Bell Atlantic. 

He suggested that would be out of keeping with the break up under which the regional telephone companies were made independent of AT&T. 
Indeed, the proposal amounts to AT&T's "re-entry into the local exchange business," Tuller said. 
AT&T defended its proposed allianee with McCaw as a move that would strengthen competition in the wireless phone industry. It took issue with the claim that an investigation was needed. 
"For one thing, we are not taking control of McCaw as Bell Atlantic suggests in its press release," said a statement from AT&T. "The negotiations, which are still under way, would give us a one-third ownership in McCaw. If the time ever came that we sought to exercise the control option that is part of the agreement, we would filn with the commission for the necessary approvals." 
The break-up of AT&T in 1984 created seven regional phone companies, often called the Baby Bells, which have had monopoly control over local phone service. 
AT&T was allowed to retain long distance service and manufacturing. 
Tuller said an AT&T-McCaw operation would give Bnll Atlantic Mobile it's largest competitor, but it would not have to abide by the same regulatory restraints as those imposed on Bell Atlantic by the 1984 break-up agreement. 

Westinghouse exec resigns after huge losses 
PITTSBURGH (AP)-The head of Westinghouse Electric Corp. became the latest top ex· ecutive to quit a big troubled American company, retiring Wednesday after presiding over horrific losses at its credit subsidiary. 
Paul Lego, 62, insisted he was voluntarily retiring and emphasized that he had taken steps to restructure one of America's biggest and best­known industrial corporations. 
But his depkrture came amid a growing clamor from West­inghouse investors over the company's sluggish reaction to its financial problems. 
"How did he survive this long? Maybe that's the sur­prise," said Greg Drahuscbak, who follows Westinghouse for Janney Montgomery Scott, an investment firm. 
ln his stormy 2 1/2-year tenure, Lego was dogged by a· disastrous performance at Westinghouse Financial Ser­vices, which created a finan­
cial drain that cost the com­
pany more than $5 billion. 
Lego's retirement an­
nouncement came barely a 
day after another large 
American company, Inter­
national Business Machines 
Corp.• said its chief executive. 
John Akers, would be leaving 
after a troubled tenure at the 
computer giant, which has 
suffered billions in losses. 
It was another sign of the growing pressure on top cor­porate executives at troubled American companies to be more accountable or face the ax. In the past several months, some of the most highly re­spected corporate chiefs have lost their positions at such companies as General Motors. Time Warner, Tenneco, and Digital Equipment, to name just a few. 
Westinghouse's stock rose on the news of Lego's departure, advancing 25 cents to $14 a share in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
~-­

-------~~-----­


Viewpoint 
Friday, January 29, 1993 page 9 

The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor .............•.•...... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ..••..••.......... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .•••......... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .....•...... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .•......... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631·5313 Advertising 631 -6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
EDITORIAL 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Vote Wilkinson, but vote cautiously 
How do you endorse one of two lackluster tickets in a com­pletely lackluster election? This was the question facing The Observer's Editorial Board Thursday night after the Saint Mary's student body debate that was, in all honesty, the far­thest thing from a debate most editors had ever seen. 
The candidates -MaryBeth Wilkinson/Lynn O'Donnell and Melissa Whelan/Melissa Peters -unknowingly did much to complement each other. Whelan spent most of the debate agreeing with Wilkinson, while Wilkinson claimed the answer to most problems at Saint Mary's is to continue doing what she started this year as Vice President for Academic Affairs. Never­theless, we -and the meager audience of less than one dozen students -were lost in Wilkinson's occasional avoid­ance of specific proposals on the weak grounds that change takes time. 
O'Donnell and Peters spent much of the debate in silence, watching their presidential running mates give vague and su­perficial answers to the majority of the questions. When pressed to distinguish themselves as possible vice presidents for Academic Affairs, O'Donnell failed to impress the audience with her grasp of her ticket's plans, instead relying on Wilkin­son to provide her with hastily written responses to deliver. Peters, although answering for herself, appeared nervous and somewhat reluctant -traits which raised doubts that she would be a forceful voice for Saint Mary's student concerns. 
But of the four women presenting their plans for Saint Mary's, only Wilkinson took charge of the situation. Although her quick and studied responses occasionally became smug, Wilkinson appears to have a great deal of confidence in her experience and abilities to lead the student body. While this aura of confidence and determination is admirable in a candi­date, Observer editors endorse her ticket with caution: If Wilkinson's own vice presidential running mate appears intimi­dated by her, she might do well to reconsider how she pre­sents herself to her constituents. A true leader must be ac­cessible and accountable, as well as secure with her own abili­ties and those of her runningmate. 
Wilkinson and O'Donnell made some admirable proposals for Saint Mary's in the coming year, among them pushing for an increased student activity fee which would open a world of opportunities for much-needed social and cultural program­ming at the College. We challenge them to remain true to their work ethic and desire to make Saint Mary's a school its stu­dents would be proud of, to implement substantive change where it is desperately needed. And we challenge the Saint Mary's student body to hold them to it. 
DOONESBURY 


Hussein's 
Dear Editor: 

I am going to assume that Mark Krejci's article on Jan. 27 was supposed to be a joke. Mr. Krejci seems to be living in a fantasy world where peace reigns and everybody will do the right thing. I would like to enlighten him on a few things. 
First of all, the United States has been at war with various countries numerous times in its over 200 year history. We did not start killing people after 1945. We have bBen doing it since before our country was founded, and lest you forget, it was through war that the United States became what it is today, a bastion of freedom for people who are persecuted by their own governments in other countries. These are the countries that not only kill en­ernie's across its borders, but also dissidents within its bor­ders; Iraq has killed thousands of Kurds. 
War is not a pretty sight, and I by no means condone it as the answer to every problem that might arise for a country, but sometimes, as in the case of Iraq, it is necessary. Iraq was given every chance imaginable to withdraw from its "acquisition" of Kuwait, but chose not to. 
In response, the allied coali­tion formed by the United Na­tions (not just the United States as Mr. Krejci would have us be­lieve), chose not to risk the ig­nition of World War III by back­ing down to Saddam Hussein's demands but decided instead that the best thing to do was to use force to coerce him to leave Kuwait. 
Perhaps Mr. Krejci, using his 
I 1/t?N'TI<NO~ RIC!<. 

WUl-, UK&J'M 7l?YING 
7V GeTMIKE M!U<EN ANP I A/..R&AllYHA'-113 
I'M NEWATJU5TIC&, 

BACI< INTO JAIL., MY 0/A/N CAUSES 7V 
I MAY8.5 7HflAVVANC/3... I 
WIPSNillY-I 
P/.AC£35. 
\ 

reign is quite insane 
20/20 hindsight, can tell us how many Kurds and Kuwaitis would have been killed if Presi­dent Bush and the allied coali­tion would have used the same appeasement policies the allies used at the beginning of World War II. Hussein's occupation of Kuwait was tantamount to Hitler's occupation of Poland. that was all Hitler wanted, to retake what was rightfully Germany's. We trusted Hitler; thank God we did not trust Hussein. 
To claim that Iraq is in a weakened state is plain lunacy. Even after Desert Storm, the Iraqi army is still the strongest, biggest and most competent in the Middle East. Mr. Krejci said, "In its weakened state, it seems Iraq may be quite ready to accept peaceful negotiations." 
Mr. Krejci must have slept through the last two years be­cause if he had been awake, he would have realized that the United Nations had been and still is enforcing strict economic and military sanctions, yet Hussein still wants to test the resolution of the allied coalition. He has repeatedly broken the north and south "no-fly" zones and has also refused to allow 
U.N. inspectors to inspect his weapons armory and chemical and nuclear weapons manufac­turing facilities, both of which Iraq agreed to in its cease fire with the allied coalition after Desert Storm. 
Hussein continuously tests the United States and the rest of the coalition. He tested the United Nations again a few weeks ago when he set up a missile trap in southern Iraq, apparently hoping to shoot down American warplanes that were enforcing 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
the "no-fly" zone in the region. Bush and his allies issued Hussein an ultimatum: move the missiles, or else. 
If Baghdad were as weak as Mr. Krejci claims, Hussein would have complied with the ultimatum. In fact, if he was that weak, he would not have taunted the allied forces in the first place. 
I am sorry, Mr. Krejci, but I do not think that "culturally sensitive diplomacy" will prove more effective than force against someone who has re­fused to respond to any of the efforts that the allied coalition have attempted to use for the last two years. We have tried every possible action in the last two years to persuade Hussein to cease his actions, but he has continued to break conditions that were set forth in the cease fire agreement. 
Like the repeat criminal, a slap on the wrist just will not work. Hussein has shown his continued tormenting of the Kurds in Northern Iraq and the Shiite Muslims in Southern Iraq. Only through the threat of force will he discontinue his practice of breaking cease fire agreements and realize that the only way to return his country to normalcy is by peacefully complying to the U.N. regula­tions. 
President Bill Clinton, fortu­nately, has realized this and has decided to continue to im­plement the actions and policies regarding Iraq that was initiated by Former President George Bush. 
Chris Seidensticker Dillon Hall Jan.27,1993 

'It's not whether you get knocked down, it's whether you get up.' 
Vince Lombardi 

Get up! Stand up! Stand up and submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
KJMetRtiN'S e&COM£3 7HE3 F0RI3(J17CN I'MN, JOAN!&, H&'5L.ON6 SINCE /XJN& H/5 
TIMe, BUT TH£3 BU5HI&5 PUT7H& FIX/NONH/5 
BOTH AMN&57Y!NTE!RNAT/0/-ViL. 
AN{) HUMAN R/Gff7l3 WATCH AR& CfJN51/:JeRJN6 C¥3516NAT­IN6 HIMA ftJtmCAL.. Pr</SON­
---tl<. YOU G07TA 
TAl<& K/M8En1N UPIA/17H BAIRP-' 

--~----~----------~~-----------------~~--~-~-----~-­
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, January 29, 1993 
1993 SMC Student Body Elections 
Wilkinson I O'Donnell 


Dear Saint Mary's 
students: 
On February 1, 1993, you will have the opportunity to select your 1993-1994 Stu­dent Body President and Vice President of Academic Afl'airs. MaryBeth Wilkinson and Lynn O'Donnell offer the Saint Mary's community Winning Opportunities, a ticket aiming to improve stu­dents' experience aca­demically, socially, and physically. Saint Mary's College has a rich traditwn of graduation well-rounded women of character and talent. 
Winning Opportunities plans to combine its experi­ence in relating with admin­istrators and faculty along with your student energy to sharpen Saint Mary's level of excellence. 
Last year at this time, you selected the Student Body ticket. Women Making Changes, comprised of MaryBeth Wilkinson, Julie McCormick, and Tina Car­rara. Women Making Changes proposed to "unite Saint Mary's College com­munity by strengthening student government, enrich­ing social interaction, and igniting academic interest." 
So that we may refresh your memory, please permit ut so boast a little about this year's accomplishments. First, student government has grown in power and prestige-students are educated about the structure of student government, Student Activities Board is streamlined, student body elections are separated from other elections, and Student Academic Council has never been so influential as it is now with its elected members. 
Second, Saint Mary's has become more socially re­sponsible through strength­ened relations with Student Alliances of Women's Col­leges, the beginning of a comprehensive recycling program, and questionnaires 
Whelan I Peters 

for student input on smoking policies and visitation hours. 
Third, Saint Mary's gov­ernment has concentrated on improving social oppor­tunities by supporting the continuation of Dalloway's and by planning an all­school dance coming this April. 
Fourth, St. Mary's students have been offered academic benefits: extended library hours during finals, bi~ sis­ters/little sisters WIthin majors, and meal tickets to take a favorite professor to lunch. Women Making Changes has worked hard to unify students, faculty, and administrators to accomplish its ~oals and im­prove opportumties. 
In a similar style, we pro­pose that Winning Oppor­tunities will bring about some necessary chan~es at Saint Mary's. First, Wmning Opportunities plans to benefit students academi­cally by increasing student­alumnae connections 


Dear Saint Mary's 
students: · A leader is a servant to the community. She is one who listens to the needs of the community and responds to those needs. She is compe­tent and confident. A leader is one who will strive to do her best at all times even to the point of taking risks. The positions of Student Body President and Vice President of Academic Af­fairs require persons such as this. 
As women who hope to hold these positions, we feel it is important to base our platform on what we believe the student body wants and deserves. Our three main goals are to increase the role of student government in the lives of students; to hold open forums for stu­dents to express their views about events on campus; and to promote activities for the women of Saint Mary's College to explore who they are and what is their relation to the world around them. 
We hope to accomplish these goals and others through a variety of differ­ent events and programs, described below. 
We would like each stu-President 
Name: MaryBeth Wilkinson 
Residence: Holy Cross 
Major: Economies/English writing 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Vice President of Academic Affairs: Member of Student Academic Council: Board of Governance; Curriculum Committee; Academic Standards Committee; Committee of Academic Affairs; Secretary of Student Activi­ties Board; Holy Cross Hall Council; Pre-law Society; Political Science Club: Economics Club 
Vice Prgsident for Academic Affairs 
Name: Lynn O'Donnell 
Residence: LaMans Hall 
Major: English writing 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Junior Board Representative; Toastmasters: Observer staff: Rome Program: Member of the Sesquicentennial Committee; English Club 
Three goals for 1993-94: 
1. 
Increase student-alumni connections through lectures and small group interviews. 

2. 
Oversee an interior redecoration of (and student work program for) Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 

3. 
Provide students with 24-hour access to computer lab laser printing. 


through lectures and small­group interviews. We want to bring back lecture series given by Saint Mary's faculty, ease friction between departments about Comp re­quirements, and offer students 24-hour access to computer lab laser printing. 
Second, Wilkinson and O'Donnell propose social im­provements. We hope to oversee and interior redeco­ration of (and student work program for) Dalloway's Coffeehouse. Also, we hope to provide students with easier access to CO-EX's for meals at Notre Dame. 
Third, Winning Opportu­nities desires to make some concrete physical changes at Saint Mary's. We plan to develop the comprehensive recycling program and to purchase Stairmasters* for Angela Athletic Facility. 
Winning Opportunities wants to better Saint Mary's academically, socially, and physically. Having both ex­perience and ambition, we are ready to serve Saint Mary's-but we need your vote. Thank you. 
MaryBeth Wilkinson 
Candidate for Student 
Body President 
Lynn O'Donnell 
Candidate for Vice 
President for Academic 
Affairs 
dent to know what is hap-. pening in student govern­ment. We would hope to in­crease our coverage in The Observer by closely working with The Observer to assist them in covering the student government meetings. 
To increase the number of students active in student government, we will be spending a great deal of time in reviewing the posi­tions on the boards and how those positions are chosen. 
Overall, we hope that stu­dents would take an interest in ~tudent government be­cause it does effect their lives. 
Students need to feel that they can affect their lives by voicing their opinions. Although student forums have been held in the past, we plan on holding them with more frequency and on a broader range of topics. We would like to welcome student input and advice on subjects that are not only before the boards of student government, but on issues that are affecting their lives. 
For example, we would like to offer open discussion on subjects such as the art controversy on campus and the consequent issue of freedom of expression. Fo­rums are a good way for students to hear the facts on different issues, ask questions, and voice their opinions. All of this helps to make the students of Saint Mary's mature and capable women. 

In today's society, the op­portunities for women are broadening faster than ever. We want to promote activi­ties at Saint Mary's which will allow students to ex­plore who ther are as women in today s society. Forums and retreats are ways for women to do this. We plan on sponsoring these events for students, so that they feel they can grow here at Saint Mary's. Women of all three schools, Holy Cross, Notre Dame, and Saint Mary's should feel that there are opportunities for them to interact and exchange on ideas on what it is to be a woman today. 
Social activities sponsored by Saint Mary's on our campus would mstill pride. By increasing student and faculty interaction at lun­cheons and dinners designed to improve relations and en­courage conversation, stu­dents could expand their minds intellectually in a non-academic setting. We President 
Name: Melissa Whelan 
Residence: Regina South 
Major: History with minor in Religious Studies 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Board of Governance; Spiritual Life Commissioner: Campus Ministry Liturgical Coordinator; History Club Vice President; Freshmen Class Board; V.I.S.A.; Athletic Manager 
Vice President for Academic Affairs 
Name: Melissa Peters · Residence: Holy Cross 
Major: Music Education with emphasis in piano; minor in Chfld Psychology 
Year in School: Sophomore 
Experience: Women's Choir; Campus Ministry Liturgical Coordinator; Stage Mana~er-Music Department; Central Missouri State: University Program Council; Student Ambassador; Private Piano Teacher 
Three goals for 1993-94: 
1. 
Inerease the role of student government in the lives o students. We want to hold open meetings and encouragestudents to attend. We would like students to be active m government. We plan on reviewing the positions in government and how they are chosen to increase the number of students. 

2. 
Hold open forums for students to express their views about events on campus. By holding frequent forums, we hope that students will have the opportunity to express their views about matters before the board and other issues affecting campus. 

3. 
Promote activities for the women of Saint Mary's College_ to explore who they are and what is their relatwn to the world around them. We want women of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, and Saint Mary's to feel comfortable in coming together at Saint Mary's to discuss issues facing women in today's society. Retreats and forums are also ways for women to come together. and we hope to sponsor many o these next year. 


hope that after a student's can imagine it, you can years here at Saint Mary's, achieve it. If you can dream she would feel that she has it, you can become it." We grown and in some way that feel confident and competent student government helped in our abilities to serve the that process. Saint Mary's community as 
We both have had experi-the Student Body President ence in leadership roles. and Vice President for Among other activities, we Academic Affairs .. work together in Campus Melissa Whelan Ministry and feel that this Candidate for Student experience will help us work Body President as partners with you. Melissa Peters 
Our motto throughout this Candidate for Vice Presi­process has been, "If you dent of Academic Affairs 
..... 

Viewpoint
Friday, January 29,1993 page 11 

Eating Disorder Awareness Week begins Monday 
Editor's note: The following them? Think about it. is the last in a three part 4. Buy a Body -Unhappy series for Eating Disorder with your body? If you have Awareness Week which begins enough money, you can buy a this Sunday: new one. The following cos­
metic surgical procedures are 

Do you remember when you becoming more and more were a toddler and how you popular. were encouraged to take tiny • Injections to plump out bites, chew and swallow wrinkles slowly? Over the years individ­• Tightening the forehead to uals tend to gulp down their eliminate furrows food as they are on the run to • Eye-lifts to get rid of bags the next activity, class or event and droopy lids without giving the process • Cheek implants for a bony much thought. look 
We are being bombarded ev­• Injections to plump up lips ery day with images, messages, • Chin implants for a strong judgments and comments profile through music, literature, art • Reshape ears and the media regarding food, • Total face-lift -the works weight, body image, physical • Breast implants or reduc­attractiveness and how we tions should be. We tend to gulp • Removal of loose flesh be­these down without questioning neath upper arm their validity, value or impact • Butt-lift to take back what on us. Today's article contains a gravity has claimed number of "tiny bites" to chew • Tighten skin on hands on and to consider what impact • Remove moles, freckles, age they have on you and those spots, birthmarks, and other around you. blemishes 
1. 
Breakfast Blues -People • Tummy tuck to remove the who skip breakfast are much "pooch" more likely than those who • Liposuction to reduce knees, don't to binge later in the day. It calves and ankles makes sense. A non-break­• Removal of varicose and fasted body is a hungry body, spider veins and hunger is a powerful set-up Approximate total cost of the for stuffing. above: $45,915, lots of pain, 

2. 
Brain Strain -Your brain scarring and infection risks. weighs only about two percent 5. Boo on Barbie -If Barbie of your healthy weight, but it were life-size, she would mea­uses 20 percent of the energy sure 36-11-37. Her waist would you get from food each day. be smaller than an average 


When you diet, you deprive man's neck. Her legs would ac­your brain of the energy it count for over half her height. needs. A hungry brain can't Could this be part of the reason concentrate, think logically, or why 50 percent of fourth-grade perceive things (like your girls think they are too fat and weight and body) the way they diet? really are. 6. Diet Pills: Hefty Risks ­
3. Model Madness-Industry There is no clear-cut evidence standards require fashion that Dexatrim, Acutrim, and models to be taller than 5'8" similar over-the-counter pills and shorter than 6'. They must help people lose substantial weight 115-120 and wear size 5 amounts of weight. One of the or 6. chief ingredients of these pills is 
One hundred fifteen pounds is phenylpropanolamine (PPA). healthy weight for a woman People 10-29 suffer the 5'0" to 5'3". Healthy weight for greatest number of serious, women of model height ranges sometimes fatal, reactions to from 140-170 pounds. Many, if PPA. Those reactions include not most, fashion models and nausea, vomiting, irregular actresses are thin enough to heartbeat, and stroke. meet the weight criteria for 7. Diet and Die -A new anorexia nervosa. study reported in the New 
How do you feel about indus­England Journal of Medicine try that creates slick and glossy suggests that yo-yo dieting impossible-to-achieve images (repeatedly losing and then re­and then suggests that you are gaining weight) increases a unacceptable and a failure if person's chances of developing you cannot measure up to serious and even fatal cardio-
Eating Disorder Awareness V\f®k Schedule of Events 
. ........... .... 
. .. 

· On Sunday, January 31 Private BodyTalk: 
··1:00~2:00 p.m. Promoting Posi~ve Body Image 3rd floor LaFortune (NJ)) IUta Donley, PsyebologistFoster Room · Uttiver~:~~ty Counseling Center 
•urnversitfofNott~·Danie 
Monday, Fl:lbrti.ary 1 Caus()s of and Recovery from 6:30'-7:30 p.tll. Eating Disorders Stapleton Lounge •.Valerie Staph~$; Program LeMansHall CoordinatQr ·.· . . 
H.o.P.E. Memorial Hospital 
Tuesday. February 2 AYoungWol}lan Talks About 6:30'-8:00 p.m. Her Experience With an Eating Catron Auditorium Disorder Madeleva Hall {SMC} Sbelli YOder. Misslndiana .. 
. .. .. . . .. . . 
Wednesday, February 3: . . . . . . . . . Eke~cise: Fitness or Obsession 6:30~7:30 p.m. Jo-AM Nestei, Ditedor· 
Haggar CollegeCenter. Athletics Department Room 304 (SMC} St. Mary's College 
·.. :· ::.:: .· 
Thursday, February 4 •• Howt(}Jtelp.a Frien&or·Family 6:30~7:30 p.m. .Mi:lrnber with 8-n Eating Disorder 2nd·fioor LaFortune(NDJ. . . Chris Nel$on. Counselor Notre Dame Ruo;m · · · ·· '(Jnh,<ersi~y Counseling Center 
'Qp}Ver$ity•o(Nutre•DI'une··· 
...... . ....... .... . 
Sunday~ February 7 . ·· · Healthy Dieting 6:30-7:30p;m. Becky•(J(}ok,Therapist-Dietician 3rd FloorL<J.Fortune {NDf · · H,O,P;ij, Memurial HospitalFoster Room · · University of Notre Dame 
.. .... ...... 
Co-sPQnsvred by Coun$eling ~rtd (lflt~ef. Deuei()prnertt isN!CJ, Vniversity Counseling Center 
(NDJ, Center for Women's Allio,qdiJ(~MCKHealthy Opti:Onifqr Problem Eaters (Memorial Hospital). Call 284·7151 for afree asse§sirtetit for Eating Dlsi:Jtders. ···· 
vascular problems. budget for the war on 
drugs is dieting, and thinness that 
Yo-yo dieting affects both the seven billion dollars. What does eventually became more im-. thin and the obese. Greatest that say about our priorities? portant than anything else in problems were observed in the 9. Boys and Girls: Still Not their lives. 30-44 age group people who Equal -A survey of high Initially, they were oblivious are very likely to diet. Re-school students found that over to the damage to their relation­searchers are now saying that a third of the girls think they ships and thought patterns the maintaining weight, even if you are overweight. Less than 15 obsession was causing and in think it's too high, is healthier percent of the boys feel like­essence denied there was a than see-sawing up and down. wise. Only seven percent of the problem even though others In this study, the harmful effects girls think they are too thin, but may have expressed concern. of yo-yo dieting equalled the 15 percent of the boys want to But sooner or later, they real­risks of remaining obese. One be bigger. Almost half of the ized that the dieting, vomiting, researcher states "It may be girls are trying to lose weight, laxative use or excessive exer­equally bad to lose the same and that includes 25 percent of cise that at one time was so in­five pounds 10 times as to lose those who think they are at or nocuous had become the 50 pounds and regain it once." near their right weight. strongest, most dominant force 
Yo-yo dieting contributes to Researchers remind us that in their lives. (Hopeline elevated cholesterol levels, high dieting and disordered eating Newsletter, June 1984). blood pressure, and abnormal can have serious long-term blood sugar, all factors that can consequences, including mal­These "tiny bites" were taken lead to heart and blood vessel nutrition, adult obesity, stunted from monthly newsletters pub­disease. Yo-yo dieters almost growth, delayed puberty, and lished by ANRED (Anorexia always are in worse shape after difficulties in psychosocial de­Nervosa and Related Eating a diet than before. The director velopment. Is this what you Disorders, Inc.}, an organiza­of this study said that chronic want for your children? tion devoted to educating the dieters have a greater chance of 10. How it Started -Many public about eating disorders. premature death than people people who have eating disor­Please consider taking some who smoke cigarettes. ders describe an initial decision time out of your busy schedule 
8. Startling Statistics -Last to lose weight to make them and attend a session at Saint year the American public spent more attractive so they inno­Mary's or Notre Dame next $33 billion on diet plans, diet cently went on a diet. The effort week to learn more about eat­aids, diet pills, and special to lose weight evolved over time ing disorders. foods. By contrast, the entire into an obsession with food, 
'Tomatoes are big business,' and that's no small potatoes 
Dear Editor: the store without tasting like FDA permitting the fruit to be would also be prohibited. guard against such abuse, but it Styrofoam yet without having sold. The product has been is not clear why banning the 
National Public Radio recently been mashed into sauce by the inadequately tested. We just The fact is that the new new tomato would help to do aired a story concerning the truck ride. don't know what will happen to tomato is biochemically identi­that. new genetically engineered people who eat it, and thus we cal to the ordinary tomato, with tomato. Scientists at one Now comes Jeremy Rifkin and need to investigate further one main exception. It lacks a It is true that this tomato biotech firm have altered the his twenty-first century before opening the market to hormone. This is apparently could be a harbinger of geneti­genes of the ordinary green­Luddites who impugn the entire the tomato. what allows it to ripen without cally engineered vegetables to house tomato so that it can enterprise with charges that the Rifkin seems to think geneti­softening. come. I don't see why this ripen on the vine without be­"Franken-fruit" is "dangerous." cally engineered foods should should cause people alarm, un­coming soft. These agro-lobbyists have be subjected to the sort of elab­The hormone, which is pre­less they think that genetic 
worked hard to undermine the orate, long-term testing that sent in ordinary tomatoes, is engineering is intrinsically bad. 
The resulting fruit is both reputation of the new tomato pharmaceuticals must pass. not nutritionally significant be­But why should that be? I sup­tasty enough to beat the aver­even before it comes to market. Only then will we know the full cause the stomach breaks it pose some people will never age tomato hands down and implications of eating the thing. down. So if you ate one of the trust safeguards. They are fated strong enough to survive the For instance, they have lob­new tomatoes, the main differ­to be uncomfortable in a two thousand mile ride from bied hundreds of professional The FDA has put the altered ence in what hit your blood­technological world. grower to grocer. This product chefs in commercial kitchens tomato through more rigorous stream compared to an ordi­strikes me as the best sort of across the country who have testing than ordinary food sees, nary tomato would be the ab­One thing is clear. Tomatoes use of genetic technology. agreed not to use the tomato. and it has done so at the re­sence of trace amounts of are big business. If the FDA 
Rifkin has also frightened off quest of the inventors. amino acids. approves its sale, the new 
In a way, of course, farmers Campbell's Soup, one of the tomato could capture a large have been using genetic engi­corporate sponsors of the pro­But what is "significantly dif­This suggests that the share of annual tomato sales in neering for centuries. Every ject. You won't see genetically ferent"? Well, consider these tomato's detractors are moti­this country, which amount to time they cross-pollinate two engineered tomato soup for a examples. If the engineering vated by concerns other than some $3.5 billion. And that's no strains to yield a hybrid they while. process had removed something the actual differences from small potatoes. are genetic engineers. nutritionally significant from regular tomatoes. I don't know 
To hear Rifkin tell it, we are the tomato -say its vitamin C what those concerns would be, Michael Byron 
Bioengineers can take the all in danger of being exposed -the rules would bar it. beyond the obvious potential for Off Campus process further. One result to to toxic waste of some kind. He Naturally, any toxic or abuse in genetic engineering Jan.26,1993 date is a tomato that arrives in has an arguments against the otherwise inedible product generally. We certainly need to 

-------------~-------------­

• 
JANUARY 29-31 
weekend calendar friday 

MUSIC 
Stencil Forest, 9 p.m., Twist & Shout The Monkey Men, 9:30 p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ Dysfunktion, 10:30 p.m., Club 23 

EVENTS 
Late Night Olympics, 8 p.m.-4 a.m., JACC Keenan Revue, 8 p.m., Saint Mary's-O'Laughlin "Eastern Standard", Lewis Hall Players, 8:10p.m., Notre Dame-Washington Hall 




saturday 
MUSIC 
Stencil Forest, 9 p.m., Twist & Shout The Monkey Men, 9:30 p.m., Midway Miskawaka Tavern Jazz Friction, 10:30 p.m., Club 23 

EVENTS 
Day of Women, 10 a.m. -6:30 p.m., Notre Dame, Snite Museum Make Beads & Buttons Of Fimo,1 to 4 p.m., Fernwood Botanic Garden-Art Center, $ Keenan Revue, 8 p.m., Saint Mary's-O'Laughlin "Eastern Standard", Lewis Hall Players, 8:10p.m., Notre Dame-Washington Hall,$ 


sunday 
EVENTS 
"Eastern Standard"; Lewis Hall Players, 2:10 
p.m.. Notre Dame-Washington Hall Records and CD Collectors Show, 5 p.m., Holiday Inn, 515 Dixie Way, South Bend,$ 
•





mov1es 
Cushing Auditorium Friday and Saturday, Boomerang, 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2 
Univ. Park West Scent of a Woman, 1:30, 4:45, & 8 p.m. Aladdin, 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:25, & 9:25 p.m. Aspen Extreme, 2, 4:30, 7:15, & 9:45p.m. 
Univ. Park East Chaplin, 9:40 p.m. Hoffa, 1 :40, 4:45, & 8 p.m. A Few Good Men, 1, 4, 7, & 9:50 p.m. Forever Young, 1:10,3:15,5:20,7:25, & 9:30p.m. Toys, 1:45,4:30,7:10, & 9:40p.m. Nowhere To Run, 1:30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, & 9:40 p.m. Used People, 1:50, 4:15, 7:15, & 9:35p.m. 


By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 

M 
arcie Thorson composes music via Macintosh and choreographs 
dances to match her 
electronic feelings. 

Beth Ann Fennelly aims her pen 
at hundreds of years of Catholic 
tradition and human misgivings. 
And Colleen Danaher is 
"manipulating two-dimensional 
photography," which is a strange 
way to say that she might be 
breaking ground in an art world 
she's more than ready to enter. 
The three young women may , 
have little more than their Saint 
Mary's or Notre Dame education 
in common. But each will bring 
her special talents and inspiration 
together Saturday in the third 
annual "Day of Women" at the 
Snite Museum of Art, which will 
celebrate the lives and ac­
complishments of undergraduate 
women in at both schools. 
The activities will begin with a 
dance performance at 10 a.m., 
and will include poetry reading, a Mariah Sharkey a Notre Dame sophomore practices 
for her n~·--~·-~~.n~.~­
panel discussion on the women's ' 
movement circa 1993 and a performance by the Saint Mary's band Sister Chain at 4:30 p.m. Ali events will take place in the Annenberg Auditorium and are free to the public. 
Although rooted in Notre Dame's honorary "Year of Women" in 1991, the "Day of Women" is now operating without a chaperone or a stated mission. Unless. of course, you count elevating the importance of gender issues among women and men in the community an implicit goal as does Diane Matthias, coordinator of the events and assistant professional specialist at the Snite Museum of Art. 
"I would really like this to become a forum ... every year." 

Poem In the Language ofthe Oppressor 
"A writer must have balls" -Norman Mailer 
We are the daughters of the silent "e". Seen, not read, we write our 'feminine rhymes'. We speak in tongues. for our tongues cannot speak. 
The masters prod their pets, what subtlety ­Maps and legends mark their enemy lines, Confine the daughters of the silent "e ". 
I've just their words to wound them, irony That bites my sallow cheeks, these sucked out rinds. We slip on tongues, for our tongues cannot speak. 
I've been reduced to garbled melody 0 cinders of Eve, tell me, what's our crime? I rage with daughters of the silent "e". 
And even in this protest how I seethe ­This villanelle, their words, their form, their rhymes! We bite their tongues, for our tongues cannot speak. 
I gag on their forked tongue, but say my piece (a piece of graphite gauging til! I'm blind). we are the daughters of the silent "e ". We speak in tongues, for our tongues cannot speak. 
-BETH ANN FENNELLY 
Notre Dame senior 
' 

Challenging gender stereotypes is ambition for participants like Saint Mary's Seni Kate Beck who, among other things, just wants 
have fun performing her brand of folk music wi Sister Chain band members Saturday. 
Sister Chain features an ail-senior lineup guitarists Beck, Erin Hardin and Megan Kin Michelle Godwin plays bongos and Er Grefenstette is the percussionist. All of tl members sing vocals and help compose the music. 
The band debuted more than a year ago at opening night of Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse 
Saint Mary's. Their name, Beck admits, was group effort. 
"We wanted to make it seem li there was no one lead singer ... th we were ail cooperating," she sai "That's how we got the idea of chain.'" 

Although a bit rusty in the be ginning by Beck's standards, th group has worked hard for th respect of music lovers at schools. They've since everywhere from Club 23 to the Zah 
Hall Acoustic Jam -and have don benefit shows to raise money for th South Bend Women's Shelter. 
Along the way, band members resisted claims that being pro-worn means they're anti-man. "A lot songs have definite feminist themes, Beck said, "But we're not trying to ex­clude men." 
Dayo 

Saturday 
10:00-10:30 Dance 10:45-12:15 Slide lecture Yesterday a 1:15-2:30 Panel: How 

Affected Me 2:45-4:15 Poetry readif1 4:30-5:15 Folk music~ 5:30·-6:30 Reception : 

page 13 


sarily direct her poetry toward a feminist audience, she admits much of her writing deals with women's issues. 


Fennelly expresses anger about the Catholic Church's treatment of women in "While It In Fact Comes Towards Us," and frustration at the history of literature in "Poem In the Language of the Oppressor." 
She has also composed a feminist re-write of "Peter Pan," aptly· titled, "The Big Kiss-Off," in which she bemoans, "Never-Never Land ain't all it's cracked up to be." 
Colleen Danaher has had little trouble finding inspirational women to influence her art studies at Saint Mary's. Her field -artistic bookmaking -is practically dominated by them. 
Danaher, a senior, will discuss how an interest in photography fueled a "step away from two­dimensional forms" into "a non­traditional setting" of photographic bookmaking. 

... Bookmaking was not often The Observer/Sean Farnan considered an art form until the Saturday. Dancers will perform for Day of Women at 10 a.m. 1970s, according to Danaher. Sister Chain will play a set of originals Saturday . , "Books have al~a~s been ar~~nd. 
that includes several with feminist themes. Beck But Its women who really gave It a JUmp start.
She and other art students from both schools will 
show slides of their work and of influential women 
artists from 10:45 a.m. to 12:15 p.m . 

'I am an empty shell 
With torn edges in my side Marcie Thorson didn't need a jump start to her I come from the deep of black dancing and music career. She's been doing both for years. 
and hungry tides 
The Saint Mary's junior composed the music and I tried to live in peace and let my choreographed the dance she will perform Saturday. Both, she admits, were experiments.
body grow 
She composed the song, "Alone in the Fathoms,"But poison in the water gave me electronically -by noting it on a Macintosh 
no where to go' computer and sending it through a synthesizer. The dance, she says, was a struggled reaction to the song. 
"When I hear a piece of music, I can already
-"Empty Shell" 
have an idea the kind of movement I'd like to do,"
SISTER CHAIN said Thorson, a junior music education major with a minor in dance. 

says one, called "Potter's Wheel," deals with "being 
forced to think or do what you don't want to do." 
The result is a "very unusual" 3 minute and 15

"The sculptor takes the potter's wheel 
second modern dance performance which Thorson

Trying to tell me everything I feel 
said grew out of picturing herself "alone ... trying

Trying to give me a heart ofsteel 
to survive in different ways." 

Because I'm looking at what is real. " 
Ann Marsh joined the "Day of Women" lineup as The "Day of Women" will conclude Saturday with a poet with a keen interest in gender issues. "For a 5:30 p.m. reception in Greenfield's Cafe in theme, the goal is to focus on the communality of 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies.

women's experiences," Marsh said. 
Matthias said plans are already underway for next

But in her search for undergraduate women 
year's event, which might turn. the focus towardpoets to headline the program, Marsh made sure to the lives and accomplishments of older women.

avoid the trappings of sameness. 
Saturday's events are sponsored jointly by the"We have a lot of different people reading ... 

Snite and the Gender Studies Program at Notrewho do have different voices." 

Dame, and the Alice Tully Endowment for the FineBeth Ann Fennelly is one such voice. Although Arts.

the Notre Dame senior claims she doesn't neces-
Elizabeth ,s Womb 

women 
The.heavy orbp. hp.ngs full, palesp1der sac clmgmg to a skeleton ­

Museum 
the prophet curls naked 


ergraduates 
m her swollen belly ­anuary 30 
a cancer lump with limbs, blind cluster, maggots· growing fat-
the madman bruises fleshy walls, creeps around her spine-

omen in Visual Art, 
Today a locust clud within her womb feasting on mother's milk, wild honey 
Women's Movement Has 1992 -DREAMA WHITAKER KINNEY Notre Dame Senior
ister Chain 
G.llympics :provide 'late night' fun for s.pectators ana p'articipants 

lATE NIGHT OLYMPICS VII 
By JOHN CONNORTON Accent Writer 
The Notre bafu.e ·Late Night Olympics kicks off its seventh annual competition tonight at the Joyce Athletic Convocational Center (JACC}, beginning at 8 p.m. and lasting until 4 a.m. 
Th' a.nnual. eyel1~· startedJn 1986, benefits the the St. Joseph chapter of the Special Olympics. Last year, proceeds from the Late Night Olympics raised over $3000 for the Special Olympics. 
Todd Moore, second year MBA student at the Notre Dame BusiM ness Se~ool, and one of the two Graduate Assistants for RecSports, h to rats~ a at dea} J:l].Ore. "My goal, which may he a lofty g to raiSe 0. We ask for a dollar donatifJn at the door, a fully, everyone will give,"Moore said. 
Late· Night is modelled after 'The Spirit of Sport AllMNighter' 
. doM.t.•at I!ldianayniversity(IU), explained Moore. "Sally Deren~ goski, Assl$ta.nt DJ.rector atIfecSports1 went to IU and when she came~ere, she trled to get something going like the AllMNighter." 
Moore promised the Olympics will be fun., and expected a large student turn-out. "lt's really something nice just to relieve some 
st passes are st~rting to heat up, but students aren't yet in 
e . It's a perf~et tttne," .Qe said. · · 
This year, thitt~en teams have been fielded from thirty partici­pating ?orms, including an off-campus team, a MBA team, and a s entry of an alumni team. "The Alumni Board has their pe , this ~ d an!'i they're goin,g to be participating m 
voile oor . · · · 
With sixte_en events, the Lalf; Night Olympics offers enough so that the· senous athlete or the JUSt as dedicated coach~pota.to can bothh~ve a good time. Events run the athletic gamut, from Y l, .·~ ·. th b~sbtball, and indo9r soccer to br .··. . . • .. U, an . . le top pentathalon. ·· 
The dodge ball special ev~nt competition promises to 
he one o the evening's highlights, said Moore. "We're going split all th 
• hall into two huge groups and have an out and out d all .:t:il\ilUC · +•·h · "" · 
In ad,~tion to Mhieving lasting athletic glory and campus brag· ging fig.bts, .the winning dorm team will split the Grand Prize po proceed:> . With . St. Jose County Speeial Olympics fifty~tifty, prov d t~.~ uted $ to the Grand Ptlze 
co nP•· " ·· · · · · 
....•... . ·· g • . is detertrin;ted by· .the· t~~l amount of pointsaccumUlated durJD,g the Late N1ght competitions. Each team·.·· • 
be awarded on~ point for .... personwho atte1Jds the · ~om that teartl'rs hall, sai ... oora. otdet to ~mp unp e·· of p~tipatiort; :~we do . :}l:e>to see fort'eits ·· ause 
we • ... . keep up the spirit (l}::the competition." 
The Late Nig.bt Olympics .Qas definitely become a popular 
c.am e 'al ne. of the rycipi~ a .· .· ..us determinatioii to 
s . . going hMk to its hosting ofthe lntern~ttonaJ Special Olym ics on·· campus several years ago, Moore said. ... lly that ~te Nighthas gone seye 
to ® iHor as w~~an." .. 
.. ·.·::::::;q,:·= 

Correction 
In an Accent article in yesterday's edition, The Observer incorrectly stated the time for the Lewis Hall Players' performance of "Eastern Standard". The correct times are Friday and Saturday at 8:10pm and Sunday at 2:10pm. The Obeserver regrets the error. 
--------~-----­
page 14 Friday, January 29, 1993 
Cable television's waltz through yesteryear 
Now that I've started getting Cable Television in my dorm room at Stanford, I have an overview of the whole cultural wasteland at my fingertips. Channel 13, a.k.a. the "Nick-at­Nite" channel offers the great sit-coms of yesteryear. 
With Mary Tyler Moore visible on the homescreen for an hour live nights a week, I can see the soft look that her eyes once had, and I love the sorrows of her changing face. 
On AMC, showing the great old flicks which are like a doorway into the lost childhood, I meet Kathryn Hepburn with her arms full of calla lilies in Stage Door. The next evening I meet her again in her old age on Golden Pond. addressing Henry Fonda, on his last legs (may God bless the mark!) as her old "poop," in her turkey­gobbler's voice. 
On PBS, I can see vintage doc­umentaries that go back to the Flood; and the major networks, broadcasting up-to-the-minute news in the middle of the night, slip in sequences from old newscasts dating back to the Eisenhower years. After two weeks, I feel like the heir to a garden where two billion and maybe more bright and dark images were lost, and have been found again. 
At my age, I should be preparing to join the Alzheimer's crowd, the baby­boomers tell me, for this is their moment, and now is their glory to laugh and to cry and to sing. 
"Oh, no," I answer. "It's the meek who will inherit the 
Father Robert Griffin 
I:Jellers loa I:Jone/j 9od 


earth," meaning that as Democrats, the baby-boomers aren't meek yet. "Excuse me for living," I tell them. "I've been to the mountain, and mine eyes have seen the glory. The Lord spoke to me respectfully, as though he thought I was Jimmy Swaggart. 
He said for me to tell the babyboomers to await their turn. "They've got the call," He said. "What they don't hare yet is My anointing. Unless the Lord build the house, the house will · be divided against itself, and 
will not be able to stand." 
The baby-boomers can be 
rude, but students, the new kids 
on the block, have their nerve 
too. A new kid tried to tell me 
that my kind of music is from 
the Big Band era. 
Reminding him that he still 
hadn't grown into swaddling 
clothes when the Beatles landed 
in New York in '64, I fought him 
for the all-stars and their 
satellites, whom he was trying 
to poach, and hold as hostage. 
In the end, I left him with 
Sinead O'Connor and the 
Grateful Dead in his stable. He 
could have had Madonna too, 
but he didn't want her. 
The point here is that Janis 
Joplin, singing, "Oh, Lord, won't you buy me a Mercedes Benz," -or Kris Kristofferson. with his reminder that "Freedom's just another word for nothin' left to lose/Nothin' ain't worth nothin' but it's free,"-is much more on my side of the generation gap than he is on the side of an 18­year old. 

What awaits you on Cable Television is America as the Promised Land. As a soapbox prophet looking before and after, I would say that America in the thirties seemed comparatively innocent; how could it have seemed otherwise, since I was innocent then myself. 
In the movies back then, all the doctors smoked, immedi­ately before and after perform­ing surgery. Nobody had AIDS; and living in the streets didn't mean you were a wino. 
In the Forties, with the De­pression over, people became hopeful again. The biggest problem kids had was buying condoms to take on a date, at a drugstore where everyone was on a first-name standing with your father and mother. 
In the fifties, people started to wonder what it was that they had been hoping for in the for­ties. Kids never had problems that couldn't be solved with Clearasil, or the greasy kid stuff that kept their duck's-ass hair­cuts looking swishy, unless they happened to be James Dean. 
The Sixties brought open sea­son on the Kennedy brothers and the martyrdom of our mes­siahs, black and white. Civil rights-workers went South, where they learned to survive the hospitality of the jails. The flower children went to Wood­stock, where they ignored the signs that said to STAY OFF THE GRASS. 
In the Seventies, the Church's Vietnam began,with Wade v. Roe. Nixon came close to im­peachment, and it was a warn­ing to us all that nobody is above the law. We remembered that Kennedy had told us we were a nation of laws, and not of privileged characters. 
I understood this to mean that if you decided, for reasons of conscience, to disobey the law, you were obliged to accept the punishment that came; otherwise, if many people de­cided to thumb their noses both at the law and the sanctions at­tached to breaking it, the result could be anarchy or mob rule in the streets. 
That is why Martin Luther King, following Gandhi's and Thoreau's great teaching on civil disobedience, went as a prisoner to Birmingham jail. 
In the Eighties, all kinds of merde hit the fan. The troops went to Iraq to kick Saddam's ass. The Church, embroiled in its domestic Vietnam, continued to lose badly to pro-choice. By the end of the decade, because of AIDS, every drug store had a corner which it had turned into a child's garden of condoms. 
Last Friday on CNN, I saw Clinton sign those five bills removing the governm~nt's restrictions on abortion, and my heart sank. But in what he said, I found some faint glimmer of hope. He said that we should be working in this country to make abortions legal, safe, and HARE. Maybe our new tactic is to make abortions rare by making them politically incorrect. 
On Monday, in The Observer, a spokesperson for students who were arrested and fined $50 for demonstrating at abortion clinics in Washington over the weekend, said she does not plan to pay the fine. "We don't believe in giving money to a system that allows abortions to happen," she said. 
I hope she re-considers. Martin Luther King, facing the dark night of the soul in a cell in the Birmingham jail, did not give up on the system. If Catholics in Germany had been required only to pay a $50 fine, if they were caught protesting the system responsible for the Holocaust, many more of them would have broken the silence. 
Is working for an America that's so beautiful-so free of poverty, selfishness, fear and ignorance-that it would be un­thinkable for anyone-anyone at all-to want an abortion-an inappropriate way for us as Christians to be supportive of children on their way to birth? 

Super aowl XXVII The Bills are ready...Dallas is ready... Papa John's is ready, too! r-------, r:_-------:1 r-------,1 2--14" Large 1 1 Late Night Special I 1 4--14" Large 1 I 1 Topping I I 1--14" Large I I 1 Topping I I Pizzas I I 1 Topping Pizza I I Pizza I I I I $595 I I I$1095 $1995I +Tax I I -+Tax I I +Tax II _ I I after 9:00p.m. I I I AJJ.uonal Toppings .95rt each ~ ... _______ ... Additional Toppings .95¢ eachliiii. ~ _______ _. Additional Toppings .95tt each ~ ... _______ _. INnt Valid With Any Other Cuu~· I I Not Valid With Any Other Cou~· I I Not Valid Wtth Any Other Cou~· I Cans of Coke®, Diet Coke®, Sprite®, and Root Beer NOW 50¢ a can HOURS Breadsticks-8 for $1 90 with Garlic Bread,M~Th ~ 11:00 a.m. , 1:00 a.m. Fri,Sat ~ 11 :00 a.m. ~ 4:00 a.m. Nacho Cheese or Tomato Sauce Sun~ Noon, 1:00 a.m. Free Delivery Fast • Hot • Ierfec t 271~1177  

-------------------------------~--------------------------------------.-~~----------~--~ 
Friday, January 29, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Brooks' Minnesota homecoming ruined by North Stars 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP)­Jim Johnson's first goal of the season sparked a three-goal second period as the Minnesota North Stars defeated New Jersey 4-2, ruining the homecoming of Devils coach Herb Brooks. 
Ulf Dahlen scored twice and Mike Modano once for the North Stars, who are 5-0-2 since Jan. 16. They moved within one point of second­place Detroit in the Norris Divi­sion. 
Brooks, a native Minnesotan who won three NCAA titles while coaching the University of Minnesota in the 1970s, was making his first Met Center ap­pearance since he was fired after coaching the North Stars to one of their worst seasons ever in 1987-88. 
Bruins 6, Jets 2 
BOSTON -Adam Oates continued his torrid offensive pace, scoring three times as the Boston Bruins beat the Winnipeg Jets 6-2 on Thursday night. 
It was the second loss in two nights for the Jets after a 10­game unbeaten streak. 
Oates tied Pat LaFontaine of idle Buffalo for second place in the NHL scoring race with 87 points. Pittsburgh's Mario Lemieux, sidelined while being treated for Hodgkin's disease, leads the league with 104 points. 
David Shaw, Dave Reid and Darin Kimble also scored for Boston. Keith Tkachuk and Thomas Steen had goals for Winnipeg. 
Islanders 5, Penguins 2 
PITTSBURGH -Derek King scored two power-play goals as the New York Islanders stretched their season-best unbeaten streak to six games with a 5-2 win over the Pittsburgh Penguins. 

The Islanders are on a 5-0-1 roll, their best stretch since a nine-game winning streak from Dec. 31, 1989 to Jan. 19, 1990. They are the only team to win twice in Pittsburgh this season. The Penguins, 19-4-3 at home, lost 4-3 to the Islanders on Dec. 19. 
Islanders goaltender Mark Fitzpatrick made his eighth consecutive start and extended his personal unbeaten streak to 5-0-1. 
Nordiques 6, Flyers 3 

PHILADELPHIA Scott Pearson scored two goals as the Quebec Nordiques defeated the Flyers 6-3 in their first win in more than seven years at Philadelphia. 
The Nordiques had been 0-10­1 at the Spectrum since Oct. 17, 1985. Quebec is 4-1-1 in its last six games overall. Slumping Philadelphia has lost five of its last six. 
The Nordiques improved their NHL-leading road record to 14­7-5 with the victory. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST: Set of keys (and 2 bike 1983 Ford Escort for sale. Great DESPERATELY SEEKING 1, The BIG 'D' is back! Sale! Sale! Sale! keys) on Cubs and Notre Dame condition. Call291-6681. 2, or 3 NO vs. DUKE GA tickets. T-shirts, art posters, scarves, mugs,I NOTICES keyrings. Call Brendan at 277-8178 Super Bowl Prediction:
PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!!!! books, baskets, pots and more! if found. Women's lt.wt. 26 in. Schwinn bike. Call ALISA @3196. COWBOYS27 Museum Shop, 
TYPING 287-4082 
10speed, red, like new, $135, call bills 10 Fri-Sun. LOST: Green wind breaker at 234-7035 Help! Need 4 KY GA's$$ 1341 MVP Troy Aikman Snite! Snite! Snite! 
LEARN TO CLOG OR C & W Campus View on Saturday, Jan 22. 
DANCE. BEGINNER'S VIDEOS. 
It has yellow trim and my name Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. Let's go 'Pokes! Roses are redFOR FREE CATALOG WRITE: sewn in it. Please call634-3447 if Will pay $$$. Call (708)835-2208 Daises are white
I TICKETS

FANCY FEET DANCE & BAND you have it. FBN, D'Ears, Queen, Clip Valentine, did you buy
WEAR, P.O. BOX 569-ND, WANTED: Desperately seeking basketball Once you dart you can't stop. My gift at the Snite? 
CLINTON, MS 39060. Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. 
Lost: Silver cross on chain tickets for the NO vs. Duke HMONSATAT9NOW/M9DCK Museum Shop Sale, Fri-Sun
Please call284-3814 basketball game. Please call Kerri OUTLWC9DRMCC2DD9DCTWARM UP BEFORE LATE Lost in or near JACC. Reward at x2764. DPSL8ER Surprise your Mom 

NIGHT OLYMPICS AND WANTED:
offered. -MOB Send something nice back to her.
COME TO THE LEWIS HALL Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. 
Snite Museum Shop Sale PLAY"EASTERN STANDARD" Please call284-3814

Call Scott x4-1583 PERSONAL January 29-31 IN WASHINGTON HALL JAN. 
10-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun 28, 29,30@ 8:10PM OR JAN. I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! 

Blue/green wool coat lost at

31 @ 2:10 TIX AT LAF. BOX GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 AVOID THE RUSH!!!!
Lewis party. Please call 2601 OFFICE, STUDENTS $3 Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day

No questions asked. HAPPY BIRTHDAY Help combat visual illiteracy!I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! message, but don't wait until the 
Convince your friends that you arePIZZA NIGHT GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 last minute to type it in!l Classifieds

Lost: One girls "Kubisaki H.S." TONY DILL cultured!
TUESDAY, FEB. 2, 1993 
can be placed anytime between 4:45-6:45P.M. I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The 
class ring with mens neck chain. Snite Museum Shop Sale 
Lost during the snowball fight most We're going to Jan. 29-31 NOH AND SOH GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 Observer office (3rd floor 
likely in South Quad. Huge TOPPLE YOU sentimental value! REWARD this weekend Don't just stand there, 
LaFortune). Used Texts Cheap Pandora's I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! 
Please call Ryan@ x1691 BUY SOMETHING! in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
LOVE, Snite Museum Shop Sale 2342 NO Ave & Howard Summer jobs and internships­THE WALSH CHICKS Jan. 29-31 
Help! I need NO/Ken. tix. call Emily University Directories, the nation's 
1 0-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun 
I WANTED

RAPID WORDPROCESSING x5245 
largest publisher of campus Call Lori at 271-0754 Bridget's is now taking apps. telephone directories, is 
Criticize your professors! Attend the Must be 21 and able to work I need 2-4 Kent. tix X4890 interviewing goal oriented students 

opening reception of Dissertations. Theses. now thru next school year. for a challenging, full-time summer 
The Art Department Faculty Show Term Papers Apply in person at 8p.m. on WANTED position. Gain valuable experience Sh***ing Bandits Update: and · Word Works Typing Service Wed, Thurs. or Fri. 2 GA's for the DUKE and/or in advertising, sales and public 

Mod Quad falls with no-wiper in The Snite Museum Shop Sale 277-7406 Kentucky games! $$$$$ relations. Average earnings $3,900. 
PW. Other highlights include a load Sunday, Jan. 31, 2-4. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple Please call Cheryl4-4813. Expense paid training program in 
in Lewis and firehouse getting free refreshments 50.000,000 wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may 
extinguished.

Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call be available. Interviews on campus BP,_Keenan, Stanford-BOO-YA!!!
·sENIORs• Peggy 1-800-682-8628. I February 3rd. Information and 
South Quad, secure your stalls ­NEED interview sign-up available today at 
here we come.

CONTESTANTS NEEDED FOR CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­2 KENTUCKY GA'S CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library SM,JG,GC,JC Dancel Poetry! Music! 
THE SR. DATING GAME Earn $2000+/month + world travel CALL JEANNE X2645 or call1-800-743-5556. 
Celebrate the Day of Women Don't be lazy, just be crazy! (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, FJB, Thank you for the flowers and at the Snite Museum Sat. Jan. 30, 

Pick up applications in the Sr. Class etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career .......SUPER SUNDAY•** ..** 
for being -and the last 12 mos. and 10-5Office employment available. No at SUBWAY 2 days, too!! 
experience necessary. For I desperately need 3 DUKE tix!! Let us serve your game party. DAYTONA•••oAYTONA employment program call Please help!! Julie X-2993 
* • • to the milker * * • Thank you St. Jude Mary and 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 Buy two footlongs, & THE SOM Holy Spirit for many favors CHEAP Who's your basketball coach?! Get third grantedGROUP RATES Student Painters is interested in Who's your basketball coach?! FREE! 
i don't know what I can do tocall x2466 hiring highly motivated students to Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 6 ft. party subs as low as show you how much you guys Aquinas was PRO-CHOICE manage their own bus. we offer basketball tix to the Kentucky $37.95! 

mean to me and how much IDAYTONA...DAYTONA management training, credit WildCATastrophe due to take place love you!!! God was smiling The Alumni are coming!

backing, and a full support staff in the month de amor. Be a pal, SR 23 & Ironwood on me when our worlds met...
·sENIORS.SENIORS• earning pot. $8,000. join the most samaritan, or whatever and sell him 277-7744 The Alumni are coming!
PRE-SUPERBOWL PARTY successful painting co. in Indiana the tickets or one of his Italian -From the one who "hangs Sat. Jan. 30 from 9pm-2am call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom relatives might pay you a visit. Then PLAN AHEAD!I 
the moon" and sends Easter Welcome them on the quad. 
at Senior Bar!! Great specials! Smith. the time for haggling will be over. 
Airline tickets Say hello, hi, howdy Free Domino's pizza, cheap Call Skip at x2052 and leave a STAYING here for the SUMMER? nachos, and more !I message if he ain't around. 
I 

FOR RENT Sub-lease our apartment at Adoption: Doctor and teacher will •••• LOOK **•* SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT I need DUKE & KENTUCKY CASTLE POINT­
2br. Apts make dreams for your baby come
SALE! tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris 
4 blocks from NO true. Full-time parenting. Best of the Spring Break Tickets to:
Lowest prices, best trips -100% x1235. CALL TODAY x4673 
$350 a month city; summers by the beach: your
guaranteed! Cancun, Jamaica. & Newly Remodeled baby rocked to sleep by a cozy -West Palm Beach, Florida
Florida packages still available from help THIS WEEK ONLY. MEN AND 
232-8256 fireplace in winter, and by ocean -March 5-t4
America's student travel leader. i need 1 duke ticket WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE CUT waves in summer. Art, music, the CALL: Kris @ x4885 Travel free-organize a small 
call julie x3736 AND STYLE. CALL COSIMOS FOR 
Music student seeks roommate to best education, endless love. Call 
group. Call STS @ (800) 648-4849. DETAILS
share 2 bedroom, pleasant Franny or Stephen collect. 
I NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS. 277-t875.

apartment, low rent, 288-8933 (212)369-2597. ****LOOK****
Attention all NDCIBD members Call Kelly at x4121. applying for EEIR internships, the Florida SPRING BREAK 7 nights 
FURNISHED ROOM, $170 mo.

schedule for interviews is posted by I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS Beachfront $139-159. RESERVE
Walk to campus. SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '931 NOTRE DAME BAND!!!
the mailboxes on the second floor. 
MARY X2862 rooms NOW. Call CMI 1-800-423­
287-2159. JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 
5264. 

FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE 
NEED 4 TICKETS TO THE 

3 BEDROOM HOUSE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, Cotton Bowl Picture Orders 
DUKE/N.D. GAME. CALL JOHN AT Snite Museum Shop Sale 
ILOST & FOUND I 
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. LIMITED SPACE. DUE ..... . 
232-2944. January 29-31 

SECURITY SYSTEM SUN SPLASH TOURS by 4:30 pm Monday 2/1/9310-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun 
LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS 1-800-426-771 0. •*All other orders in now*•LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I 232-3616 I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for 
?'s: call Cristina at Band Office Kentucky -Brian x1 069 PANAMA CITY BEACH I!! 7
THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI 
X4209. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY KRISTINA L: 
NIGHTS AT BEACH FRONT 219-291-7153. 
I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR HOTEL. STARTING AT $109. 
Roses are Red NOTRE DAME BAND!!! KENTUCKY GAME! CALL JAMES @289-2683
Found: Violets are GreatBetween Cavanaugh and Zahm this For Rent CALL MEG -X3884 
weekend, a gold bracelet. Call 634-Notre Dame Apts. Happy 20th, Lugie To my ex-friend: 
Spring Break! Daytona Beach! 
And get some from... ! I need 4 Marquette tix Ocean Front Hotels: Quad 
1530 to describe. Ask for Steve. -Newly Remodeled 2Br Apts 
-Great Rental Rates Thanks for a great date. And (students or GAs). The game is Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: Vip 
LOST: N.D. VARSITY Start at $400/mth. Love, The 6-Pack remember, being let down is worse WED. Feb. 17. Call Rebecca at Discount/10 card ... Round trip 
LEDERMAN'S JACKET AND than being turned down. x4121. Charter Bus from $199.50 per 
ATIENTION: I am cjeclaring today From: the guy who never asks person! Room Only available from 
PLAID SCARF-PLEASE RETURN, a national holiday; it's ERICA three ·times. 
NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
I FOR SALE 

DESPERATELY NEED $109.50 per person. Limited 
GAMBALE'S birthday I Everyone1 Duke Tik Stu or GA Availability! 1-800-881-beach.
CALL JIM AT x1066 
Call 232-8256 must eat raisins & wish her a happy
Call Leigh x2912

1 00 Watt stereo with receiver and b-day. Love, "' The Wisdom of Old Mushy Head ­CANCUN!!!!
Found Wed. 20 Jan. -set of 
amplifier. 15" speakers,excellent '0', Get. HipHop, Action Allen, T­I need one Kentucky ticket. Student
two Chrysler keys on ring. 
sound, perfect condition. call 271-Money, Neib (whoops) Nieb, I've gotta find a new hot chick to or GA. Call Brian at 1194. Male roommate(s) needed to
Nothing else on keyring. To 1443 Christie, AI, Anne, Shloe, Lanny, start worshipping. complete Spring Break package. 
claim call Kirsten at 4185. 
Jess "Queenie", and lrenie. Call 4-1738 for details. 
.... ..... ..... ..... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ...... 
$:' ­

e ', : . : . : :: :: : :: :: :: :: : {'~ ' 0 -_...
-~~ • ..... . . . •••••• •••••• •••••• • • ••••••• •••••• · • , r1t..1 ......._,
C) .., • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • " ' ~;Ill .. --J 
1..-~ ' ~ 't. :. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • >;$;9 -¥ -~ '--""" 
'--""""' ~ 0 ~ ..................... : .. :...... :............. : : : .. :...... _.. fi'· 
' 

TRANSACTIONSNBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
Canadian Football League WALES CONFERENCE
EASTERN CONFERENCE BASEBALL EDMONTON ESKIMOS-Traded
How the top 21 ...me In Tlw ANoclated

All•tlc DIYielon Patrlcl Dlvlelon COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE-TracyH~Wn, quarterback; Enla Jackson w Travis 
Pr... college IIMulbell pol t.red Thlnday:

W L Pet. W L T Named Eugene Calahan director of g0'o1'81'nmental Oliver, defensive backs; Craig Ella w Ken Winey,
1. K..,aa (18-2) did noc play. Next: VI. Rollins, relatione. Saturday.
NewYork 25 15 .625 Plttaburgh 33 14 4 A rl La slotbadla; Chris Johnstone, lullback; John Davia, New .Ieney 2>4 18 .571 W•hlnglo 25 21 4 me can KA•NSgueAS CITY ROYAL"-Aft eed to linebacker; ..,d the rights to Cam Brouaaeau,
2. lndlaM. (18-2) did nOI play. NeX1: at Northw.tern,

Boeton 21 20 .512 NY Rangers 23 111 7 ...........,r defensive llnem..., to the Toronto Argonauta for
Saturday.

Or!Wo 18 18 .500 New .Ieney 2>4 22 3 terrre whh Tom Gordon, phcher, on a on•year Rickey Foggle, quarterback; Darrell K. Smith,
3. North C.rolna (17·1) did not play. Next: at Wake

Phlladelphla16 23 .410 NY la!Wers 23 22 5 contract. slorback· Ed Berry cornerback· Eddie Brown wide
ForeeI, Saturday.

Mlam 12 27 .308 Philadelphia 18 24 7 MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Agreed 10 receiver; Leonard Johnson, defensive end; Don
4. Kentucky (14-1) did noc play. NeX1: va. Florida,

Wahlngton 12 27 .308 Adellle Dlvlalon terrne with Tom Brun..,.ky, outlleldler, on a on• wnaon, defensive hallback; Bruce Dickson,
Saturday.

Central Dl,._.on Momreal 30 18 5 year contract. Daelgnated Archie Corbin, pitcher, linebacker; w J.P. Izquierdo, alotback. ChiCIIQO 28 14 .887 5. Michigan (18-2) did noc play. NeX1: at No. 11 Iowa, Quebec 28 18 7 lor assignment. HOCKEY Sunday.
c~eve~...d 25 11 .5115 MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to National Hockey Leegua lndlaM. 21 21 .500 8. Cincinnati (14-1) did nol play. Next: va. DePaul, Buffalo 25 111 8 Ierma with Shane Mad!, out11elder, on a one-year CALGARY FLAMES-Traded Gary 
Boaton 28 19 4 
Saturday.

Ch.,lone 111 111 .500 Hartford 14 33 4 contNtloractal. L Leeman. right wing. to the Montreat Canadlena lor
7. Duke (14-3) did not play. NeX1: at Maryland,

Atlanta 20 21 .488 01111111 5 45 3 a n eague Brian Skrudland 08n1er
Saturday.

Oelroll 18 22 .450 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled 
8. Arizona ( 12·2) beat Oregon 92-60. Next: at OregonMllwauk• 17 23 .425 Norrie Dl,._.on with Michael Th-. Michael Bailey, David Witzel Perry Berezan and John Carter, forwards, from

State, Saturday. 

WESTERN CONFERENCE W L T and Lull Fernandez, phchera, and Johnny Kanaaa Cly of the International Hockey League.
9. Salon Hal (1 ~) did not play. Next: at Syracuse, CarvaJal, Ricky Gonzalez and Lula Ordaz. SOCCER
MldwHt DIYielon Chicago 30 17 7
Sunday.

W L Pet. Detroit 28 20 5 Infielders. on mlnor·INgue contracta. National Profee•lonal Soccer League
10. UNLV (1 1-1) at Nevada. Next: at Utah State,

San Antonlo25 13 .858 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed CHICAGO POWER--Signed JacqU88
MlnneaOia 28 17 8
Saturday.

UWI 28 14 .850 T~o 23 20 7 to terms with Mike Slwperaon, Infielder, on a one-LaDouceur mldllelder· Danny Yonan forward· and 
11. Iowa (13-3) beat Michigan State 118-90, OT. Next: year contract • ' • •
Houston 23 18 .581 St. Louis 22 23 8
va. No. 5 Michigan, Saturday. 'sAN DIEGO PADRES-Agread to Nidi Berbarl, defender, lor the remainder of theo.n-14 28 .350 Tampa Bay 18 33 3 19112-93 uaaon. Mln.-ola 7 211 .1114 Smylhe Dlvlelon
12. V..,.rblh (1 !>-3) did not play. Next: at Auburn. terms with Jell Gardner, Infielder, on a one-year TENNIS Saturday.
Dala 3 34 .081 Vanc:owar 211 14 7 World Te.n Tennle
13. Phtaburgh (13-3) did n01 play. NaX1: VI. Villanova ~~:iTBALL
Pllcltlc Dl,._.on Calgary 25 111 8
at the Pltaburgh CMc Arena, Wedneaday. National a..utbell Aeeoclatlon coach PHOENIX SMASH-Named John
Phoenix 211 8 . 784 Loa Angelea2>4 20 5
14. Purdue (12·3) beat Nort~tem 113-73. NeX1: va. CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Darrell ~~LEGE.
Portland 28 1 1 .718 Winnipeg 24 22 5
Michigan Slale, Saturday.

s-• 27 12 .8112 Edmonton 17 27 8 Waller, guard, to a 1Q.day contract. NCAA-Named Cindy Lewis,
15. VIrginia (12-3) did noc play. NeX1: va. VIrginia

LA Clipperl 21 1II .525 San Joae 8 42 2 CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Named assistant athletlcl dlractor at Hofstra. chairperson LA Li*ers 20 20 .500 Weclnaedlly'a Game• Jim Boylan video coordinator W aaliat..,t ooach. olthe Division 1women's volleybaU c:orm1ttee.
Tech at Richmond, Saturday. Golden S1ale 20 21 .488 DETROIT PISTONS-Waived Jell SOUTHWEST CONFERENCE­
18. Arkansas (12_.) did not play. Next: va. Georgia, Hartford 6, MontnNII 5Saturday.
s.a...-15 24 .385 

Buffalo 4, Wahlngton 3 Rulw. cent~ENVER NUGGETs-Placed Mark Named Steve Hatcheft commissioner. 
17. Utah (1!>-2) beat Wyoming 84_.5. Next: at

Wecl,...y'a O.mea New York Rangers 5, Winnipeg 2
Colorado State, Saturday. Macon, guard, on the InJured Nat. Activated Bryam
lndlaM. 127, Phladelphla 125, OT Detroll 2. Edmonton 2, tie Ch.rlone 117, S.:ramento 107 Chkago 4, Vancouver 4, tie

18. 
Georgia Tach (11_.) did nol play. Next: at No. 19 Stkh, guard, from the InJured lilt. ARKANSAS STATE-Promoted John Oelrol1103, Boeton 114 Thuredlly'e Ollmea

Florida State, Sunday. NEW JERSEY NETs-Placed Bobo, offensive line coech, to head loolbal coach. Phoenix 117, MlnneeOia 118, OT BOlton 8, Winnipeg 2

19. 
Florida State (13-6) did not play. Next: va. No. 18 Jayson Williams, forward, on the InJured list. CORNELL-Named Pete OeStelano S.., Antonio 1111, s-ie 1111 on-a 5, Hartford 2


Georgia Tach, Sunday. Activated Dwayne Schlntzlua, center, from the and Warren Belin asalatant delenslwl coaches. 
20. Oklahoma (13-5) did not play. Next: va. Colorado, InJured list. DUKE-Named Buddy Gels offensive
LA Clipperl107, UWIII7 St. Louis 4, Tampa Bay 2 

Saturdey. Continental Baaketbell AMoclatlon coordinator.
Golden St-. 123, Denver 95 Quebec 8, Philadelphia 3 

21. Georgetown (12-3) did nOI play. Next: at Boaton QUAD CITY THUNDER-Placed PEPPERDINE-Named George
Thur....y'a a.-a New York lalandens 5, Plttaburgh 2
College, Saturday. Barry Mkchel, lorward, on InJured r-. Kuntz women's aoocer ootlch.
Atlanta 110, NINo York 105 Minneaota 4, New Jersey 2 

22. Connedlcut (11-5) did nOI play. Next: VI. St. John's TAl-CITY CHINOOK-Signed AI RUTGERS-Announced that Andre
Mllwauk• 1011, Miami 87 Calgary at Loa Angelea, (n) Clevelend 127, Or!Wo 113 Frldey'• aa­

at Madilon Squ.,e Garden, Saturday. Lorenzen. forward, w Chartel McCovery, gu.,d. Lamoureux, basketball center. left school lor 
23. TulaM. (14-3) did noc play. NeX1: va. Southern YAKIMA SUN KINGs---Acqulrad the acade"*' reaaona.
lndlaM. 127, LA LM<ers 110 New York Rangers at Buffalo, 7:.40 p.m.
Mll81ealppl. Saturday. righll to Todd Merritt, forward, lrom the Tri-Chy ST. JOHN's-Promoted Dave M•ur,
Houston 114. Chaga 83 Quebec at Wahlngton. 8:10p.m. 
24. Marquene (14-2) did nol play. Next: at St. Louis. Chinook lor future conalderatlona. part-time men's soccer coach, to lull-time men's
o.n-110, NINo J-.y 100 Chicago at San Joae, 10:.40 p.m.
Saturday. FOOTBALL soccer coach.
Frldey'a Gemee Saturdey'e O.mea 

Wahlngton Ill Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. 25. Houston (11-3) did nol play. Next: at Southern National Football Leegue YESHIVA-Added Tamar Parnell to
onawa at Montreal, 1 :1 op.m.

Methodist, Saturday. DENVER BRONCOS-Named Mo the women's baaketbalteam
Bolllon 111 on.noo, 7'30 p.m. Phladelphla at Pltteburgh, 1:.40 p.m. 
Fone assistant ollanalve coach. Retained ErnieLA Li*ers Ill Charlotte, 7:30p.m. BOlton at NINo York lalandenl, 7:.40 p.m. 
Stautner, delenalwl line coach.

Min.-olalll Oelroll, 8 p.m. Winnipeg at Hartford, 7:.40 p.m. San Antonio Ill Phoenix, 8 p.m. New York Rangers at Toronto. 8:10p.m. 
STANDINGS
sacr...-111 Dalla, 8:30 p.m. DetroH• Vanoouver, 8:10p.m. 

LA Clipperllll Golden State, 10'30 p.m. Tampa Bay at Mlnneaota, 8:10p.m. Satwdey'a a.-a New Jeruy at St. L.oula, 8:.40 p.m Big Ten BaakelbeH Glance ChalloC1e 111 Wahlnglon, 7:30p.m. Chicago Ill Loa Angeles, 10:.40 p.m. Conference All GamelCleYeland Ill Miami, 7:30 p.m. Calgary at San Joae, 10:40 p.m. w L Pet. w L Pa.
Phladelphla 111 Allan1a, 7'30 p.m. Sund•y'• Gemea Indiana 7 0 1.000 18 
2 .1100

Oelroil 111 lndlane. 7:30p.m. Plttaburgh at Wahlnglon, 12:.40 p.m. Mlchlg.., 5 1 .833 
18 2 .8811

Mllwauk• 111 Mlnneeota, 8 p.m. Edmomon at Buffalo, 1:10 p.m. Illinois 4 2 .887 11 8 .847NINo Jersey • Houllon, 8:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Montreat. 1:10 p.m. Wlaoonlln 3 3 .500 10 5 .887sacr...-111 San Amonlo, 8:30p.m. Mln.-o~a 
3 4 .4211 11 5 .888
Chkago Ill o.n-. II p.m. Purdue 2 3 .400 
11 3 .788

LA Clppers Ill UWI, II p.m. Michigan St. 32 .400 10 4 .714
Dalla 111 Phoenix, 11:30 p.m. Iowa 1 2 .333 312 .800
Porttend Ill s..nte. 10 p.m. Ohio State 
2 4 .333 II 8 .800
SUnday·• O.me Penn S1ale 1 .200
4 8 8 .4211 

LA~ 111 Bolllon. 12:30 p.m. Nor!'-tern 40 .000 5 8 .385
w.........,·. Aaautta 

Thureclay'• Raautta Indiana 81, MlnneeO!a 5 Iowa 118, Michigan Slate 110 IIUnola 80, Wilconsln 72 Purdue 83, Nort"-tem 73 
r-------------------------,
: Save 50¢ : 
I when you buy a medium or large waffle : : cone of frozen yogurt. (Original, nonfat, 1 
1  or sugar free nonfat)  1  
I  Campus Shops  :  
:  1837 South Bend Avenue 1  
I  271-9540  I  
I  w.ruoAS..ii•O.Yomr....!~  expires 2/5/93  I  

L-------------------------~ 
Alumni Awareness Week 
Please join us at the Volleyball Challenge including SARG, Student Government, and Alumni teams. Saturday, January 30th 10:00 a.m. JACC 
The Alumni Fact For The Day•.. The Notre Dame Alumni Association is not the fundraising arm of the University; it is the service component of the University, involved in continuing education, community service, travel, SARG, Student/Alumni Relations, reunions, ect. 


SIGN-UPS WILL BE BETWEEN 8:00pm and !0:30pm AT THE RECSPORTS OFFICE. DUNKING WILL BEGIN AT ll:OOpm 
RIMS WILL BE AT 8FT. FOR THE WOMEN AND 9FT. FOR THE MEN. 



~. 
Olympic.. 
ONE DOLLAR DONATION REQUESTED ALL DONATIONS BENEFIT SPECIAL OLYMPICS AND ARE GREATLY APPRECIATED 

Friday, January 29, 1993 The Observer page 17 
MCC Championships Schedule January 30 • Loftus Sports Center 
Iowa wins first game without Street 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
What Color is 
"on the campus" 

~our parachute?
Open Monday -Saturday 9a.m. -Sp.m. 

Tis the season for job hunting. 
Visit the Notre Dame 
Bookstore-your campus 
resource for a wide selection of 
career planning books, 
resume guides, job search and 
interview guides and more. 
be Notre Dame's most formidi­ble opponent. "Due to LaSalle this meet will be the best test we've had in the MCC in prob­ably a decade," noted Piane. 
Traditionally, Notre Dame has dominated this meet. The Irish have won the league title every year they have competed in the event, totaling eight con­ference banners in all. Notre Dame athletes also own MCC records in 12 of the 16 events contested. 

EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­The Iowa Hawkeyes, playing their first game without Chris Street, overcame a 15-point deficit in the final 3:30 of regu­lation and rolled to a 96-90 overtime win over Michigan State on Thursday night. 
Street, a 6-foot-8 junior who was the team's emotional leader, was killed Jan. 19 in a traffic accident in Iowa City. The 11th-ranked Hawkeyes postponed games with North­western and Penn State last week and hadn't played since a 65-56 loss at Duke on Jan. 16. 
In a tribute to him, the Iowa players wore a black patch with Street's initials and his jersey number, 40, on the left shoulder strap of their uniforms. 
Val Barnes, who led Iowa with 29 points, paced the Hawkeyes comebac-k with three 3-point­ers, including one with 20 sec­onds remaining in regulation that tied it at 76. 
Michigan State (10-5 overall, 2-4 Big Ten) went without a basket over the final 7:13 of regulation. Jon Zulauf had a chance to ice the game for the Spartans with two free throws while Michigan State nursed a 76-73 lead with 28 seconds remaining, but he missed them both. 
Acie Earl, who had 27 points and 16 rebounds for Iowa (13-3, 2-2) started the overtime with a layin off his own missed jumper. 
Cindy oavalle 
Happy 2 1£ Birthday 
You're the Greatest! 
Love,' Mom, Dad & Brandy 


The Hawkeyes quickly built an 85-78 lead and the Spartans never threatened. 
Shawn Respert had 23 points for Michigan State and Kris Weshinskey added 19. 
Michigan State was coming off a 67-66 loss to Wisconsin in which they wasted a 12-point second-half lead. 
Street, the team's leading re­bounder at 9.5 per game and third-leading scorer at 14.5 points, was buried last Frida There was a moment of silence just before the game at Breslin Center, followed by an announcement that Michigan State and East Lansing busi­nesses would contribute money to a memorial fund being started for a youth center in Street's hometown, Indianola, Iowa. 
The Hawkeyes' layoff showed during the early going as they fell behind 19-8 with 12:09 left in the first half. 
But Kenyon Murray, who was Michigan's 1992 Mr. Basketball at Battle Creek Central, hit three straight baskets to trigger an 18-6 run that gave Iowa a 26-25 lead with 7:00 to play in the half. 
The lead see-sawed the re­mainder of the period and a tipin by Wade Lookingbill, who started in Street's place, gave Iowa a 35-34 halftime lead. 
But the Hawkeyes went score­less for the first 6:04 of the sec­ond half while Michigan State built a 50-35 lead. Two free throws with 5:50 remaining in regulation by Mike Peplowski gave the Spartans their biggest lead, 67-50. But Peplowski, who finished with 13 points and nine rebounds, fouled out with 1:38 remaining. 
No. 14 Purdue 83, Northwestern 73 
EVANSTON, Ill. (AP) -Glenn Robinson's 18 points led a bal­anced attack Thursday night and the Purdue Boilermakers gave Gene Keady his 300th coaching victory with a Big Ten triumph over the Northwestern Wildcats. 
A 10-0 run to close the first half put the Boilermakers (12-3, 3-3) ahead to stay. North­western (5-9, 0-5) didn't seri­ously threaten in the second half. 
Led by Robinson, Matt Painter and Cuonzo Martin, the Boil­ermakers opened a 73-59 lead late in the second half. A 6-0 run cut it to eight points but a three-point play by Martin with 3:14left finished the Wildcats. 
Martin finished with 17 points and Painter added 15. 
Cedric Neloms led Northwest­ern with 24 points, Kevin Rankin added 20 and Charlie Howell had 14. 
With Painter scoring six points,Purdue moved into a 17­10 lead and extended it to 23­

14. But a nine-point run, rill
triggered by a 3-pointer from Pat Baldwin pulled the Wildcats into a tie. 

Triple Jump  
4:00  Shot  
5:30 5:40 5:55 6:00 6:05 6:15 6:2S 6:35 6:40  Pole Vault 55 M High Hurdles 55 M High Hurdles 55 M Dash High Jump 55 M Dash 4 X 880 4X 880 55 M High Hurdles 55 M High Hurdles  Women Men MF WF  

MF WF WF 
MF 
Men 
ws 
MS 
WS 
MS 
WS 
MS 
ws 
MS 
WF 
MF Women 
.'
Men 

teammates Derek Seiling, Jim Trautman and Shane Dubois will compete in the 3000 meters. 
The evening concludes at 
9:00 p.m. with what many consider the most exciting event to watch, the mile relay. 
Newcomer to the MCC this year is LaSalle. They will also 
6:45 6:50 6:55 7:15 
7:35 7:45 7:55 8:00 8:05 8:10 8:15 8:20 8:25 8:30 8:35 8:45 8:55 9:00 
55 M Dash 55 M Dash 5000 M Run 5000 M Run High Jump 
Mile Mile 
400 400 800 800 200 200 
1000 
1000 3000 3000 Mile Relay Mile Relay 

also feature the return of some members of the '92 Irish cross
Track 

country team that competed in the national championships. At
continued from page 24 

8:25 p.m., All American Mike
tied with 67" jumps. It is not McWilliams makes his return to 

your average athlete who can 

Loftus competing in the 1000m.
hurl his entire body seven feet 

At 7:45, Nate Ruder will
in the air. 

compete in the mile. At 8:45,The MCC Championship will 
25% off all career guides 
•Budget 
airfares any..vhere. 

•I
nternationa I student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lnternat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 

311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travel Masazine! 
page 18 The Observer Friday, january 29, 1993 
Olajuwon, Rockets bully Chicago by 11 in Houston 
.. 
' 
. 
HOUSTON (AP) -Hakeem at the half and increased it to Olajuwon had 18 points and 17 59-46 with 7:56 left in the third rebounds as the Houston Rock­quarter. Chicago then made a ets beat the Chicago Bulls for 16-7 run but the Rockets held the fifth time in their last six on for a 66-58 lead going into meetings, 94-83 Thursday the final quarter. night. The Rockets then put the 
The two-time NBA champion game out of reach with a 19-6 Hulls, who have won one of charge ending with five minutes their last 13 games in the to play. Summit, provided the Rockets Michael Jordan led the Bulls with their first sellout of the with 26 points and Scottie Pip­season. Former President Ge­pen added 17. Vernon Maxwell, orge Bush was among the who verbally spatted with 16,611 spectators. Jordan in the first half, also 
The Rockets held a 48-38 lead scored 18 points for the 

Scottie Pippen, shown here dunking on New York's Patrick Ewing, could not lead the Bulls over the Rockets despite his 17 points. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Account Executives work with clients on a daily basis and should possess good communication skills, a friendly personality and a strong work ethic. 

To apply, please submit a one-page personal state­ment~of intent or a resume toMike Hobbs by 5 p.m. Friday, January 29. Contact Mike Hobbs at 1-8840 for more information. 
Rockets. 

Chicago led 24-23 at the end 
of the first quarter but Olaju­
won's basket with 11:04 to go in 
the half gave the lead to 
Houston for the rest of the pe­
riod. 

Maxwell and Jordan tangled 
beneath the Bulls' basket with 
2:53 left in the half and contin­ued to talk to each other on several exchanges down the court. 
Jordan made an alley oop dunk and then pointed at Maxwell late in the second quarter. 
Cavaliers 127, Magic 113 
RICHFIELD, Ohio -Mark 
Price sank his last eight shots 
and put Cleveland ahead for 
good with a 20-footer early in 
the fourth quarter as the Cava­
liers beat the Orlando Magic 
127-113 Thursday night. 

Orlando rookie Shaquille O'Neal, limited to five first-half points after going to the bench with two quick fouls, came back to finish with 25 points and seven rebounds. 
Price led the Cavaliers with 29 
points and added 11 assists. 
Larry Nance scored 22. 

Bucks 109, Heat 87 
MIAMI -Fred Roberts 
scored 22 points and the Mil­
waukee Bucks made 28 of 30 
free throws to beat Miami. 
The Bucks made their first 22 
shots from the foul line. Their 
Cowboys 
continued from page 24 

I know we are a unique group and are often misunderstood, so I would just like to clear the air and offer-a bit of congratulations to the Bills and their fans for their third­straight AFC Championship-and may the best team win. 
Ill 
::z:: 
1­

first miss was by Roberts and it came when Milwaukee led 89­73 with 7:32 left in the game. 
Eric Murdock had 19 points and 10 assists for the Bucks and Anthony Avent had 17 points. Rony Seikaly led the Heat with 18. 
Hawks 110, Knicks 105 
NEW YORK -Dominique Wilkins scored 31 points and the Atlanta Hawks took a 21­point lead in the first half be­fore holding on to end New York's four-game winning streak. 
Wilkins is averaging 29.8 points in 10 games since re­turning from a broken finger. New York pulled to 107-105 with 10 seconds left on a re­bound basket by Hubert Davis, but the Hawks hit three free throws. 
John Starks scored 24 points, Patrick Ewing 21, Tony Camp­bell a season-high 20 and Charles Oakley a season-high 17 for the Knicks. Kevin Willis scored 24 for Atlanta. 
Pacers 127, Lakers 110 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Reggie Miller scored 24 points and Detlef Schrempf added 22 Thursday night as the Indiana Pacers blitzed the Los Angeles Lakers 127-11 0 for their third straight win. 
The Pacers thoroughly domi­nated as they raced to a 29­point halftime lead, 74-45, en route to their third straight win over the Lakers. Indiana swept the two-game season series last year, including a 28-point win on the road that was the Lak­ers' worst loss in 18 years. 
This one nearly matched those proportions, but the Lakers rallied to make it respectable in the fourth quarter when they ran off the first eight points and held the Pacers scoreless until the 8:29 mark. 

Attention Freshmen 
JPW ESCAPE TO 
CHICAGO 
1,0-1\ 
februat~ 0/}l 
There is a limited amount of CJ?$~0 space still available. 
Til:kets sold only through Friday. 
Sign up ASAP at the Student Government office on the secondfloor ofLaj(Jrtune. 

SATURDAY NIGHT Pre--Superbowl Celebration 
FREE PIZZA RAFFLE 
9,2 

must be 21 
~ 

Friday, January 29, 1993 The Observer page 19 
Dallas, Buffalo confident and ready for the big one 
Reed looks· to turn around.)~.~ar~ 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Even a Jame~W¥bi,ngton. . . ·:·· . ... starring role in the Super Bowl "He's basically the money won't make up for what Andre man for them/~ he said. "The Reed considers a sub-par sea-guy is capable of making.1J,)Jg son. plays if you allow hint to .flla){e "It would be like 'Why now?' big plays. My job is to try to Why wasn't I a part of itthe eliminate :him from4na,){irtg last six, seven games of the },plays,"~ . >:\l·\!1 i(tt'\tiJ~'rT} year?"' '"'· Reedsaid ~e was less iny()iv~~ Of course, a sub-par season in the offense after former for Reed would be a Pro Bowl offensive line coach Tom. season for most NFL wide re-Bresnahan was promoted&to ceivers. It was for Reed, who offensive coordinator1 He re­earned his fifth straight trip to placed Ted Marchlbroda:*wb6 Hawaii. left to become head coachi!fi 
For the seventh straight sea-the IndianapolisColts. son, Reed led the Bills in re-''j thin}t he really wanted Jo ceptions, catching 65 balls for improve our running ganie 913 yards. But his three touch-morel" Reed saidf"When yon downs represented a career.-have a guy like Thurman low, and there were long Thomas l)a.c~ there, you've got stretches during the season to use 1iliiL") ···· · ·it''' · · when Reed didn't seem to be a Reed wasn't the only Bills part of the offense. wide receiver whose numbers 
"Just being out there running suffered from an increase.!l, around, you feel like you're not emphasis on the running game:· a part of anything," he said. The NFL's all-time receiv 
"You're ju~t out there." yardage leader James Lqft 
Just his presence, however, is receptions dropped fro enough to concern Dallas safety 1991 to 51 in 1992. 
A Lecture by 

Gerard Powers 
Office of International Justice and Peace 
U.S. Catholic Conference 

"Sarajevo and Self-Determination: Building an Old New World Order?" 
Co-Sponsored with the Social Justice Forum Monday, February l Noon Room 220, Law School Courtroom 
. 

Smith has seen the best, now ready for the rest 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Kevin Smith thinks about Super Bowl goats. 
"They are the guys who have scars for a lifetime because they didn't make plays or were burned in the Super Bowl," Smith said. "Other guys are set for life because they performed with the whole world watch­ing." 
Smith ponders his Super Bowl fate because he's a rookie cornerback in the NFL. He's been tested in each of the Cowboys' playoff games against Philadelphia and San Francisco. 
Smith has passed the tests with solid B pluses. 
"I knew Jerry Rice would be coming after me when we played the 49ers," Smith said. "I told Rice he was just No. 80 to me and that he would have to go to the other side of the field to make his catches." 
Rice had a below-average day against Smith and didn't catch a touchdown pass against the first-round draft pick from TexasA&M. 
"I have confidence," he said. "You have to have it in what I think is the toughest position to play in the NFL" 
Asked his assessment of Buf­falo, Smith said, "Buffalo is an older team and has some great receivers like James Lofton and Andre Reed. 
'They are Pro Bowlers and big­name guys, but sometimes younger legs and quicker legs prevail." 
Don't misunderstand. Smith's 

RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS ­
. II 


A college education takes $$$. ·students majoring in engineering, Don't send out an SOS. U 2 can get science, business, nursing and a the $$$ you need with a merit-number of other majors. B 1 of based Army ROTC Scholar-them. Army ROTC scholar­ship. l,OOO's of scholarships ships are A+. They're as good are awarded every year to as Au. 

ARMYROTC THE SMARTESTcow=-a: 
COURSEYOU CANTUE. Contact Captain Brian Selling (631-6265) for more information 

not being disrespectful. 
"The advantage goes to a re­ceiver like Lofton," Smith said. "He has experience on his side. But playing cornerback is 90 percent attitude. And I've got the attitude." 
Smith and Larry Brown, a second-year former 12th-round draft pick, are the youngest cornerback tandem in the NFL. 

SUPERBOWL 
"It will be a big test for us be­cause Jim Kelly finds his second and third receiver better than any quarterback I've seen," Brown said. 
Green cornerbacks can give a secondary coach heartburn, an ulcer and gray hair. 
"Sometimes I have all three," Dave Campo said. "Sure, I'm concerned with those young guys out there, but they are pretty disciplined. Buffalo will try to exploit our young guys I'm sure." 
The young corners are backed by savvy veterans such as Thomas Everett, James Washington and Ray Horton. In six-back packages, Kenny Gant and Darren Woodson move in and out. 
Kelly said he noticed one thing about the Dallas secondary that impressed him: "They are quick and aggressive. Their quickness is unmatched." 
Buffalo's no-huddle offense could keep the young Cowboys off-balance. 
"The no-huddle against their young secondary is definitely the key to our winning," Reed said. "I think it's going to be a big factor. The Dallas sec­ondary has never seen it like we run it. We'II try to get them matched up wrong 
•
when they substitute. 
''I've seen some loopholes in the Dallas defense through the film we've seen. They may be vulnerable in some spots," he said. Dallas defensive coordinator Dave 

Wannstedt, who will leave the Cowboys for the Chicago Bears after the Super Bowl, is worried about his secondary adapting. 
"We can't afford to give up cheap touchdowns and that happens sometimes when you're confused," Wannstedt said. "Hopefully, we'll be tuned in Sunday." 
Reduce. Reuse Recycle 


page 20 The Observer Friday, January 29, 1993 
Hockey faces two more CCHA foes 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA while freshmen Jaime Ling (9G, Sports Writer 22A) and Jaime Morshead (9G, 7A) need to continue conQ-ibut­

After a six game homestand. ing. the Notre Dame Hockey team Junior captain Matt Osiecki, hits the road for two games this who returned from an injury weekend. On Friday night, they for last weekend's game, travel to Sault Ste. Marie, anchors the Irish defense. The Michigan to face defending goalie situation remains cloudy. NCAA champion Lake Superior Junior Greg Louder has played State University. On Saturday, in spurts, while senior Carl Pic­Big Rapids, Mich. will be their conatto and sophomore Brent destination for a game with Lothrop wait in the wings. The Ferris State University. starter will be a game day deci* 
The Irish picked up a point sion. last Friday in a 2-2 tie with Illi­Saturday's opponent, Ferris nois-Chicago, but were blown State, comes into the game away by Michigan, 7-1. "We ranked sixth in the CCHA with need to come out this weekend a 12-10-3 record. This will be and score more goals," said the first meeting of the season 
head coach Ric Schafer. "We'll between the two teams. Notre bounce back and see what Dame is 2-11-1 against Ferris we're made of." in the series and have lost nine-
LSSU (17 -6-4 overall, 12-4-4 .straight games dating back to in the Central Collegiate 1981. Hockey Association) is ranked Ferris needs to maintain 3rd in the CCHA and rides a their standing in order to host a four-game winning streak into CCHA playoff game. "This is a the eonttJst. Notre Dame (6-16-very important weekend for 2, 4-14-2 in the CCHA) stands us," says FSU coach Bob in lOth place. Daniels. uwe must take 
Back on October 30, Notre advantage and get all the Dame almost secured one of points at home that we can." the biggest upsets in college The Bulldogs split their two hockey history against LSSU, games last weekend against but the Lakers fought back Bowling Green and Kent. Due from two goals behind and to the fact that Daniels' team is seored the game winner with banged up. "every point we get 30 seconds left. "It was a great will pay off in premiums when game and we almost pulled it we get healthy." out," noted Schafer. Junior wing Doug Smith 
Lake Stat~> is led by the of­leads Ferris with 13 goals this fensn of sophomo•·n center season, while senior center Hriun Rolston (20 goals, 21 Kevin Moore provides (4G, lQA) assists) and freshman wing valuable leadership. Defen­Sean Tallaire (16G, 15A). Also. sively, junior Pat Mazzoli is sophomore wings Mike Morin coming off a 41 save ( 14G, DAI and Rob Valieevic performance against Bowling ( 1 OG, 1OA) are dangerous Green. seorers. Morin was named CCIIA Offensive Player of the In order for Notre Dame to 
• 

The ObserverPat McHugh Senior defenseman Eric Gregoire, a native of Ithaca, N.Y., has been a stalemate of thelrish defense all year. 
Indiana Judge rejects 'Super' Idea 
INDIANAPOI.IS (API -An In­he wouldn't be able to make his charges in connection with the dianapolis man boarded a plane final pretrial hearing. armed robbery last May of $27 bound for the Super Bowl after from an Indianapolis furnituw. asking his lawyer to explain to "For a public defender elient to lie was freed on $11,000 bond. a court why he could not go to the Super Bowl is prob­appear on robbery charges. ably quite unusual," she said, Skwarcan said Brown denies 
adding that the tickets were the charges. She had asked the 
But Marion Superior Court given to Brown by a relative. judge to hold the warrant under Judge Gary H. Miller rejected advisement until Monday, which the championship game Sunday Brown was arrnsted in July on would have given Brown the between the Bills and Cowboys robbery and confinement ehance to show up for trial. 
Week for his performanee last weekend. 
Besides a potent offense, Lake has a stingy defense. Sophomore goalie Blaine Lacher yields only 2.71 goals per game. 
Noti·e Dame counters LSSU's offense with some firepower of their own. Seniors Curtis Jan­icke (11G, 17A) and Dave Hankoske (9G, 1OA) provide an experimH~Ild scoring punch, bring home a victory this week­end, they will need to play physical hockey and regain the winning form they held in early January. The Irish have en­dured five one-goal losses and two two-goal losses. This week­end, the irish have a chance to pay back a national power in LSSU for their narrow defeats. A.o; playotT time nears, the Irish must prove they ean win on the road in the CCIIA. 
as a reason to postpone a court hearing. He issued a $100,000 re-arrest warrant for Nathaniel Brown Wednesday. 
"Had it been NCAA basketball playoffs. I might have recon­sidered my position, but I am not a football fan," Miller quipped. 
Shelly M. Skwarcan, Brown's public defender. told Miller her client called her Tuesday to say 
Turtle Creek A 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios Pool & Volleyball Laundry Facility 
Now AcceptingND Shuttle Service 
Applications

City Bus Line 2/10 of a mile from campus 


Affordable Student Housing 
Schembechler selected by Hall 
DETHOIT (API -Former Michigan coach Ho Schembnch­ler, four-time Big Ten coach of the year, has been named to a spot in the College Football Hall of Fame, the National Football Foundation announced. 
Schembechler. 63, will be among 13 members inducted L>ec. 7 in New York. 
.. 
"This is certainly the highest honor a college football coach can receive," Schembechler 
said Wednesday in a written statement. "It's a great honor, and to get in the first time I was eligible makes it even more speeial." 
Schembechler eoached the Wolverines from 1969-89 and ranks as Michigan's winningest coaeh. with a 194-48-5 record. With a eareer record of 234-65­8 in 27 seasons. he is sixth in victories for major-college eoaches. the foundation said. 
Under Schembechler. the Wolvnrirws went to 17 bowl at Ohio State. He landed his first head coaching job in 1963 at Miami of Ohio, his alma mater. 
FOR DETAILS ... BRING THIS TICKET TO FUNTAN. INC., STATE RD. 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
J~~~JL.i£~~ 
presen/ 

Eastern Standard 
by Richard Greenberg 
friday, January 29 at 8:10 p.m. Saturday, January 30 at 8:10 p.m. Sunday, January 31 at 2:10 p.m. 
Washington Hall Mainsfage 
Tickets Available at Lafortune Box Office 11>3oo Students ·1/.5(10 General Public 
--------------------------------------------~-------------~ 
The Observer page 21 
Fencing to meet up with favorite in New York meets 
By KEVIN JANICKI Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing squad makes its first trip to the east coast this weekend, facing 1992 NCAA champion Columbia, NYU, St. John's, and Rutgers on Saturday at Columbia University in New York. They will then fence Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey on Sun­day. 
The men are coming off of two successful weekends, hav­ing compiled a 10-0 record. But with at least three top na­tional contenders present at this weekend's meets and top sabreman James Taliaferro sidelined for academic reasons, head men's coach Mike DeCicco knows the Irish have their work cut out for them. 
"It will be the toughest meet of the year," said DeCicco. 
Specifically, DeCicco noted that Columbia, the class of this weekend's field, is favored to repeat as national champions. Rutgers and NYU are also per­renial east coast powers. 
"St. John's matches up well with us," DeCicco pointed out. 
The team is counting on some degree of momentum, alo.ng 

Jeff Piper 
with some other important keys, to help them through the weekend. Coach DeCicco believes that the "leadership we receive from Jeff Piper in foil," along with continued great fencing from Grzegorz Wozniak in the epee division, will be important ingredients for a successful weekend. 

On the women's side, head coach Yves Auriol stressed the strength of east coast fencing programs in general, noting that motivation will be a key for his fencers. 
"Columbia and St. John's are going to be strong teams I'm sure," said Auriol. 
The women fencers had last weekend off. They are counting on a week's rest along with the continued success of Kim Arndt, who was 11-0 two weeks ago. 
Freshman Claudette de Bruin will need to step up after fencing to a 12-3 record in the first meet of the year. 
Though the season is young, it has revealed fencers on both teams who have the ability to rise to the occasion. Such suc­cessful fencers as Chris Hajnick, who was converted from foil to sabre, and Rian Girard, who switched from epee to foil to provide depth, are evidence of this trend. 
This weekend, against some of the nation's best teams, the Irish will have to continue to perform well. 
Bills, Talley beseiged by false accusations about scuffle 
PASADENA, Calif. (AP) -Su­per Bowl Week may have hit its zenith -or nadir -with foot­ball an afterthought. 
Much of the talk Thursday was about bars and bodyguards, not the approaching NFL championship game. 
Media members congregated at the table manned by Darryl Talley. Others went for Jim Kelly. And Marv Levy. And Cornelius Bennett. 
Talley reportedly was in a shouting-punching-shoving al­tercation with Magic Johnson's bodyguard, identified only as Anthony, on Sunday night. A story in Wednesday's Fort Worth Star-Telegram said An­thony had punched Talley in the face while they were at Roxbury's, a popular nightclub. 
"I supposedly was the guy in­volved in this thing, and nothing happened," said the always affable Talley. "I was not in a fight and there's nothing to it. I have no black eyes and my nose is fine. There was no incident and no fight." 
After about 10 minutes of in­terrogation, questions, Talley stood up, grabbed a micro­phone, and said: 
"ATTENTION EVERYBODY! 
NOTHING HAPPENED! OK?" 
Unfortunately, it wasn't. So the media mob headed for Kelly, who, according to the Star-Telegram, had made remarks to 
Johnson  that  spurred  the  
confrontation.  Kelly,  not  
surprisingly, was no help.  

"It's nothing," he said. "It's not worth the concern you guys give it. I know where my focus is and where our team's focus is." 
Still, the reporters and guys with microphones and television cameras persisted. On to Levy, who got quite annoyed by the attention the alleged incident was receiving. 

HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS. 
I I ALL YOU CAN EAT 
SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
$5.95 




Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and warm garlic breadsticks. ~• It's all just $5.95. And you -,r-c, ~ don't have to be a math • 
major to figure out that 
otwe.~ . 

that's a great deal. ITALIAN fH <..,TAl IHt\N I 
WHERE ALLTHE BEsT OF ITAlY Is YOL!RS.~ 
•Opposite University Park Mall, 277-6503. 

~-«....u,,.,li}-'  
......  
······  
..........  
'  
·..... ·· ..  


"Our players told me it's not true," he said, "and I think they have more credibility than how that story emanated. It says Wednesday in a Fort Worth paper, quoting a number of unnamed Dallas Cowboys who were present, naming Bills, but saying Jim Kelly and Darryl Talley were not available for comment. 
"Both were available at our press conferences on Monday. "Nice but clumsy try, fellas. This is no issue to our players." 
Bennett was in the club, too. He sat at a table Thursday, pa­tiently answering queries about 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
it is a important stepping stone for the ·experienced Irish squad, is only the first in a long line of future matches against ranked teams. The next seven matches and 11 out of the next Sunday night. 
"Probably half the guys on both teams know guys from the Cowboys," Bennett said. "There were a lot of actors and actresses in the club. 
"For one thing, it was too crowded. Anybody could've bumped anybody. I don't know what happened." 
Correction: 
Yesterday's women's interhall basketball article should have report.OO that Howard defeated Walsh. 42 ..39. 
The Observer regrets the er­ror. 
14 will be played against teams ranked in the latest ITA rank­ing. 
"I don't think there's a tougher schedule in the coun­try," stated Bayliss, "But we have sufficient pieces of the puzzle to have a good year, it's just a case of fitting the pieces into place. Hopefully we'll pick the right ones." 
''One ofthe best films ofthe year. 
Slashingly fu.nny. ..this is clearly the year ofTim Robbins:· 
-Peter Tnaven, ROWNG STONE 
"Scathingly funny... brilliantly witty!" 
-Rita Kemplcy, WASHINGTON POST 
"Bursts with energy and opinion:' 
-Bruce Wdliam.son, PLAYBO'( 
"Savagely funny." 
-Guy Fbtlcy, COSMoPOUfAN 
"Hil .
anous.I" 

-David Amen, NEWSWEEK 
BOB 
HOBlHTS 
LATER. 

Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45 
page 22 The Observer 
Women's swimming travels to Ohio, New York 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team left this morning for their first away dual meet of the season, the Irish will swim Cleveland State this afternoon, then travel to to Olean, NY, to swim St. Bonaventure tomor­row. 
"We're looking to come home a double winner," said Head Coach Tim Welsh. 
Last year Notre Dame de­ft~atnd Cleveland State 141.5 to 
• 
88.5. The Irish won all but three individual events. This year they are expected to dom­inate once again. Cleveland 
State's strength will be in the sprint and stroke events. Chal­lenging them for the Irish will be freshmen sprinters Kelly Walsh and Rachel Thurston. 
"Cleveland State is numeri­cally smaller than we are. -we will challenge their depth, which won't hold up against ours," said Welsh. 
The meet tomorrow against St. Bonaventure will be Notre Dame's toughest dual meet of the season, and Welsh is confi­dent that the team will swim well. "We've been training fast, therefore we should race fast; which is what we need to do against St. Bonaventure," noted Welsh, "They will challenge us in all of the sixteen events." 
St. Bonaventure's Jean Kel­lachun is an extremely strong distance swimmer and could swim a number of events. lt all depends on strategy. 

over as many events as And what is Notre Dame's 
possible." The Irish will return strategy? "To take our key 
home on Sunday afternoon. 
Men also face tests on eastern road trip 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's swimming team will compete this weekend in what head swimming coach Tim Welsh called the "first test on the road this season." 
Notre Dame will compete in two meets this weekend, first this afternoon at Cleveland State University, then tomorrow at St. Bonaventure's in Olean, New York. 
"This is a very important test for us," stated Welsh. "Over the course of the weekend, ev­eryone will get a chance to swim at least once. " 
Twenty-six swimmers, all those uninjured and eligible to compete this semester, will travel this weekend. 
According to Coach Welsh, "Cleveland State has a smaller team numerically than Notre Dame and than they have had in the recent past. But they have some very good athletes. They should be very strong in the I.M. relay and the sprint freestyle events." 
As well, Cleveland State has a powerful swimmer in Eric Mays whose specialties include the 100 and 200 breaststroke. 
St. Bonaventure's will provide heavy competition for the Irish on Saturday in both swimming and diving. 
"This meet will be a complete challenge from start to finish," stated Welsh. "They race very well and are very well coached, especially on starts, turns, and stroke techniques." 
"Plus, they have had an out­standing season so far. Their pre-Christmas times in the At­lantic 10 meet were faster in many cases than ours in Na­tional Catholics," added Welsh. 
St. Bonaventure's strengths lie in the sprint freestyle events, and according to Welsh, they have added balance to their 
Y'Al.l. Cl.Alli! lSZl 
TO~AY 


field, so that they are strong in both the stroke and freestyle events. 
Junior diver Sean Hyer will face some challenging competi­tors in Olean, according to div­ing coach Adam Hirschfeld. 
"This is an excellent meet. lt is always very competitive, but we're still looking for victories in both diving events," com­mented Hirschfeld. 
llyer will dive in the one and three meter events. 
Take the keys. Take a cab. Take a stand. Friends don't let friends drive drunk. 
Friday, January 29, 1993 


Earn$$$$ for SPRING BREAK 
Waiters, Waitresses and Food Services help needed for JPW Catering Events February 15--21 Sign Ups will start Monday, January 25 10 a.m.--4 p.m. Basement of SDH 
JPW 1993 
GUIDE TO THE GAMES 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 1993 AT THE JACC 
EVENT TIME LOCATION 
3-on-3 BASKETBALL WATER VOLLEYBALL NERF FOOTBALL INNERTUBEWATER POLO KICKBALL BROOM BALL WIFFLE BALL IN[)()()R SOCCER OBSTACLE COURSE RELAY VOLLEYBALL TABLE TOP PENTATHLON SLAM DUNK OPEN SKATING 
8:00PM  PIT  
8:30PM  ROLPS AQUATIC  
7:00PM  ARENA  
10:00PM  ROLPS AQUATIC  
7:00PM  GYM 4 &ARENA  
8:00PM  ICE RINK  
10:30PM  GYM4  
8:00PM  GYMS #1 & #2  
1O:OOPM  FIELDHOUSE (EAST)  
8:00PM  FIELDHOUSE INFIELD  
10:00PM  FIELDHOUSE (WEST)  
11 :OOPM  FIELDHOUSE  
10:00-12:00  ICE RINK  

[SPECIFIC TEAM SCHEDULES ARE POSTED OlJrSIDE THE RECSPORTS OFFICE] 
ENTER GATE 3 OF THE JACC $1.00 ADMISSION AT THE DOOR SOUVENIR T-SHIRTS ON SALE $10.00 
BE A REAL CHAMPION SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS IS SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS PROCEEDS WILL BE DONATED TO THE ST. JOE COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 


l 



.. 
page 23 



SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
I 'V£ HIRED SoMWNE TO £ND YoVR YEARS OF 
Run! LE.S.S REJE(..TloN. I'VE 
FouND YOVR N6MESIS1 
Y~R IN~VIT/IB!.E 1)6Ff.Ai! 
11££T ·yoOR DooM, YoU 'roon.JY. :lAcK oF MAlciJO L£ NCE. INfRODLlC.INtn •.. 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Quotation: Part 51 End of II quotation
1 Flight records 33 Embellish 57Sans­s Recorded (carefree): Fr.
34 Loutproceedings s8Jog35 Montreal9 Robespierre's 59 Baal, e.g. 

baseball player 

hometown 61 Telamon
36 Philologist who 62 Membrane of a "Caro nome," 
authored the quotatione.g. 

bird's beak 

A trout 63 Elephant' s-ear 
37 Canceled at 

Scans 
Canaveral 64 Quink and 7 Knee, to an Embden
40 BeanieM.D. 

65 Hannah Van 
41 What walls have 

8 Achilles sulked Buren, nee­here 43 Sediment 
66 Poet Lazarus 

9 Progeny  44 Hebdomads  
Quotation: Part I  46 Unexpected winners  DOWN  
48 Edible cereal  f Trail  
grass  2 City on the Oka  
49 Blue Eagle org.  3 Actress  
so Tender  Lollobrigida  
4 Stroll  

sReal 6 Highbinder 7 Prong of a fork 8 "Vissi d'-," 
Puccini aria 9Awn IIIII!-=4.::~R8-=-+::-l 10 Iterate 

~~~~lt~·~ 1 f Foolhardy 
12 Together: Mus. ~~:-f"""t-::'+'---:-+:-+-:-i dir. 
~:-+.:-+:'-i 13 Chicago-to­Atlanta dir. 1-'-+:::+::'-'-io...,. 21 Nkru mah 's country r::-+-:-+-:-+-+::-+-l=l 22 River to the Rhone -...:::=+7~ 25 Vatican heads: Fr. 


42 N.Y. Indian tribe 53 Septennial 45 Recluse problem 
(one's bane) 47 Panegyrize 54 Mountain: Comb. form 
28 AI and Tipper 48 Arcturus's 29 Putrefies constellation ss He was ribbed 30 Outdo so Rhonchus 56 Average 31 "Thus­
Sf Home for 57 Bearish period Zarathustra" baahlings 60 Seat of Wayne 32 "Uncle Tom's 
52 Canon Co., Utah Cabin" girl 34 Dutch South 
Get answers to any three clues
African 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­
38 Goat's cry 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1218
39 Homunculus 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

0 
··~ 
l·:z9 


"Our camels are dead, we have no water, and yet we must cross this desert if we are to survive. ... For the love of Allah, Omar, do you ever cut your nose hairs?" 
CAMPUS Friday 
12:20 p.m. Mass. Regina Hall Chapel, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life. 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Bob Roberts." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission. 
8 p.m. Late Night Olympics. Open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. JACC. Admission $1 donation at door. Sponsored by RecSports. 
8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Boomerang." Cushing Auditorium. Admission. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Beef Noodle Soup Grilled Turkey Steak Mozzarella Sandwich Oriental Vegetables 
Saint Mary's 
Cheese Ravioli Apricot Lemon Chicken Quarters Turkey Cutlets w/Parsley Sauce 
.J 

,.. 
Sports 
page 24 Friday, January 29, 1993 
..... 

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

The sixth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team faces its first stiff challenge of the new dual meet season tomorrow when it takes on eighth-ranked North Carolina at 1:30 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish are coming olr a win in their first dual meet of the season, a 6-1 victory over Ohio State, but this weekend's matchup with the Tarheels is their first big match without the services of senior Andy Zurcher, who was the 42nd-ranked singles player in the country. Zurcher will be out indefinitely, as he recuperates from tendon damage in his right wrist. 
The Tarheels are loaded with singles talent, led by 11 til­ranked Holand Thornquist, 21st-ranked David Caldwell, and 35th-ranked Woody Webb. 
The Irish will counter with a talented group of seniors, led by Will Forsyth, who is 15-3 on the year and ranked 19th in the latest ITA ranking. Chuck Coleman, Mark Schmidt, Ron Hosas, Chris Wojtalik, and ju­nior Tom North will likely make up the rest of the singles spots. 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
"We've got a lot of work to doSenior Will Forsyth is 15-3 on the year and is currently the 
yet," noted Irish coach Bob
17th-ranked singles player in the country. 
JONATHAN JENSEN 
Game Point 

Cowboy fan offers an explanation of his madness 
As I thumbed through my copy of 
the Official Super Bowl XXVII 
Program straight from the llall of 
Fame in Canton, OH, my mind began 
to drift off to images of this weekend's 
big showdown. 
Specifically, what can the Hills do to 
accomplish what the Eagles and the 
once-unbeatable 49ers could not, to 
suppress Emmitt Smith and derail the 
Cowboy jugernaut'? 
Despite my stance as a devout 
Cowboy fan. I felt it my duty as a 
journalist to for once examine how the 
other side is feeling, how the many 
New York residents and Bills fans 
around campus are examining this 
question and approaching the Bowl. 
First of all. by now I am sure they 
are sick and tired of listening to the 
many daims of hoards of Cowboy fans 
that the 'Boys are once again 
America's Team, a certifiable dynasty 
of the 1990s, even before their first 
Super Howl win of the decade. 
After all, the Hills have gone to two 
Super Bowls in the '90s, and have 
even put up a good light in one. 
Well. I can certify that Cowboy fans 
are an nxtension of their team: a 
brash, cocky group of winners who 
view each approaching game as their 
next victory. And until the Bills have 
won the Big Enchilada, they will 
continue to wear the tags of losers in 
the eyes of followers of the Supermen 
in metallic blue and gray. Next 
question. 
Well, if Cowboy fans don't respect 
the Bills yet, what do us fans think of 
the fastest-growing segment of the 
American population. the vocal 
conglomeration of Cowboy haters. 
They scoff. they snicker, they turn 
away in disgust, they do whatever 
they can to let us know that our 
patronage is not appreciated, and that 
the team we root for is nothing more 
that a bunch of jerks from the 
University of Miami. 
First. although a number of players, including stars Michael Irvin and Husstdl Maryland, and some coaches, namely Dallas head coach Jimmy .Johnson and Bears head coach Dave Wannstedt are from that black hole in Southern Florida, we do not hold that against them and feel that their experiences there may have actually contributed to their successful earners in football. Who knows? 
As for the character of our team, we 
really don't care. Though it may be 
nice to be a fan of, say, the Duke Blue 
Devils, and be safe in the thought that 
your team is a group of fine, 
upstanding ·choir boys, after suffering 
through the Dallas teams of the mid­
'ROs we are just satisfied to have a 
team that just wins, baby. 
That just about concludes my view from behind the ski-masks of Buffalo fans. all I can say is that I hope I have answered your questions and given you some explanation as to why us Cowboy fans think like we do. 
see COWBOYS/ page 18 
INSIDE SPORTS 

Men's track team hosts conference championships 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish indoor track and field season begins today with the MCC champi­onships. The meet will be held at the Loftus Sports Center, and events will proceed from 4:00 p.m.-9:00 
p.m. with the finals competition beginning at 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will travel to UCLA this weekend and try to bounce back from Wednesday night's 73-57 loss to Missouri. The Bruins will not make it easy for the Irish. 
Despite the loss of All­American Don MacLean and Tracy Murray, both of whom were drafted into the NBA after last season, UCLA sports a talented lineup. Four of their live starters are averaging double figures in scoring. 
Ed O'Bannon, a sophomore forward has led the Bruins to a 12-5 record before last night's game against USC with 18.4 points per game. The guards, junior Shawn Tarver and sophomore Tyus Edney, chip in 
16.3 and 12.9 respectively. 
The fourth starter in double digits is senior center Rich Petruska with 12.5 points per game. With a good game against USC, senior forward Mitchell Butler could enter Sunday's match-up in double figures also, as he sits on the edge with 9.8 points per game. 
Notre Dame has reached their surprising 8-8 record with less emphasis on offense. Monty Williams, senior captain, has poured about 18 points a game to lead the Irish. No other player for the Irish is averaging double digits. The next closest is freshman Ryan Hoover with 9.5 points per game. 
Among the other Irish starters, sophomores Malik Russell and 

Notre Dame counters Hunter's blazing speed with Mike Miller and Clint Johnson, two stars from the Fighting Irish football squad. "This should be a fun race," said Piane. 
ln the middle distance events Notre Dame faces tough competition from LaSalle and Loyola, who are traditionally strong in these 6:30. 
The feature events for the evening are the 55 meter dash, the middle distance events (400m, BOOm, mile), and the long jump. In the 55 meter dash John Hunter from LaSalle poses a strong threat to the Irish. "He's a good sprinter and he's run well so far," said Notre Dame head track coach Joe Piane. 
events. 
Finally in the high jump, Notre Dame has three out­standing performers in Brian Headrick, Todd .Johnston and team captain Todd IIerman. In last weekend's practice meet at Purdue, IIerman cleared the seven-foot plateau while .Johnston and Headrick 
see TRACK! page 17 

Irish visit Los Angeles to face Bruins 

Billy Taylor have been putting in 
about eight points each game. 
Williams, who has been nagged by injuries all season, but has not missed a game yet, also leads the team in rebounding, pulling down 9.5 a game. Russell follows the captain with live more boards a game. 
But what theY. lack on one end of the court, Notre Dame makes up for on the other. Coach John MacLeod's aggressive team­oriented defensive style has been the major factor in his team's success. When the Irish hold their opponent under 70 points, they are ~-0 on the season. 
Unfortunately, it is a balanced attack like the Bruins' that the Irish have been most susceptible to this year. Wednesday's performance against the Tigers attests to this. Missouri ended the game with three players scoring in double figures and four more adding at least five points. 
Against UCLA last season, Notre Dame pulled off a nationally-televised upset of the then second-ranked Bruins. The 84-71 victory came at home for the Irish. 
UCLA leads the series, which has seen 40 meetings between the teams, 23-17. The Irish, however have posted victories in six of the last eight match-ups. Notre Dame's last victory at Pauley Pavilion was four seasons ago. 
This year's game is also televised. ABC will air the game The Observer/Jake Peters at 4:00 p.m. on Sunday. Senior forward Monty Williams slams home two of his 17 
points in Notre Dame's 72-63 victory over LaSalle. 
Men's tennis to face challenge hosting Tarheels 
Bayliss, the 1992 National Coach of the Year, "In singles and espedally doubles, who will play with whom." 
The doubles matches will bn eritieal this weekend. due to the implementation of the new searing system which has the doubles matches being played first in a pro-set format, and the winner of two of the three games winning one point. 
The Irish will have the tandems of Forsyth and Coleman. Schmidt and Wojtalik, and Rosas and freshman .Jason Pun at their disposal for tomorrow's showdown. 
"We'll see how they respond," said Bayliss,"We're in a bit of the dilemma, in that we have many players who can step in and probably do the job. But that's better than not having good options." 
Juniors Allan Lopez, Tad Eckert, and Todd Wilson, sophomores Horst Oziura and Tony Payurrio, freshman Mike Sprouse, and transfer Eoin Beirne have been playing well enough to merit playing time. but will have a hard time breaking into the experienced Irish starting group. 
This weekend's match, while 
see TENNIS/ page 21 










