

The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 116 
MONDAY, MARCH 29, 1993 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
esc celebrates tenth anniversary 
Law school to mark 25th year of women 
By ALICIA REALE 
Associate News Editor 
The 25th anniversary of women attencling the Notre Dame Law School as full-time students will be commemo­rated today at 3 p.m. in the Barry Moot Courtroom. 
"These women really were pioneers here," said Janis Johnston, acting director of the Kresge Law Library and program coordinator. "They came to a facility without women's restrooms or dorms. They were very much in the minority at Notre Dame." 
The program will celebrate the achievements of women graduates of the law school and reflect on women in the practice of law, according to Johnston. "We will asses the real accomplishments and where challenges remain." 
Justice Shirley Abrahamson of the Wisconsin Supreme Court will deliver the keynote address on the state of women in the legal profession titled, "A Courtroom of One's Own: New Roles of Women in the Legal Profession." 
ln her speech Abrahamson will "talk about women in the legal profession, how the in­crease of women in numbers has changed it and the prob­lems that still remain," said Johnston. 
Following her presentation, five ND Law School alumnae, engaged in various types of legal practice, will participate in a panel discussion of their experiences as students and women lawyers. "The panel will reminisce about days as students in the law school and comment on being women attorneys in their particular field of practice," said Johnston. 
The panel will include; 
Judge Ann Williams of the 
U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Illinois; Jeanine Davis, vice president, general counsel and secretary 
see WOMEN I page 4 

Center helps community and students 
By CHRIS HANIFIN 
News Writer 
Several hundred members of the Notre Dame and South Bend community gathered on Saturday to celebrate the lOth anniversary of the Center for Social Concerns, an organiza­tion which has programs which are designed to benefit both the community it serves and the volunteers who serve it. 
"All great religions teach us that we have an obligation to serve our fellow human beings. I am extremely proud of what has been accomplished here through the intensity of the esc staff," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
'The center was conceived in the imagination of students and we continue to develop in re­sponse to students' dreams and ideas. Students give us purpose and share with us a curiosity and enthusiasm for life," said Kathy Royer, the center's co­ordinator for service and social action. 
"Our friends in the commu­nity have helped teach us about life. You have been hospitable neighbors welcoming us into our Jives," she said. 
By SARAH DORAN in service projects, a visit to the even more to emphasize this The center sponsors a variety Associate News Editor South Bend Center for the position," said Latz. of programs, each geared to a Homeless, and lectures by Fa­Enhancing the alumni com­student's area of interest. 
Over 40 alumni gathered this ther Don McNeill, director of ponent in service programs like For example, Urban Plunge weekend to participate in a fo­the CSC, Father Regis Duffy and Urban Plunge and developing focuses on societal problems, rum designed to heighten their Sister Regina Coli, associate Outward Bound type alumni while volunteering at the Logan awareness of a variety of social professors of theology. service programs, were among Center provides students with concerns and to brainstorm Priorities that emerged from ideas proposed to achieve this an opportunity for community new activities with the hopes of the forum are improving com­goal. involvement. The center also increasing alumni participation munication between the alumni Among programs proposed to sponsors programs focused on in the Center for Social Con­and the esc and increasing capitalize on the priority of· campus work such as Recyclin' cerns. alumni involvement in the role continuing communication Irish and the campus first aid 
"The alumni have only been that Notre Dame plays in Na­between the esc and the team. involved with community ser­tional Service, which would also Alumni Association was the "We have so many ND volun­vice like this for four years and serve to strengthen this role .. idea of a esc interface, which teers to help us out," said Ann since its only the second year of Raising the level of alumni was presented during a pro­Georgia, assistant coordinator the forum, its a· young idea," involvement would also be posal by alumnus Charles Kitz. for the Logan Center's Saturday said Peter Pranica, director of central to another goal of the Such interfacing would trace Recreation program. "Its easy alumni community service CSC, making Notre Dame the seniors after graduation, listing to see how the students and the programs. model of national service, ac­their whereabouts with the groups they work with mix 
The Alumni Social Concerns cording to Leo Latz, '80, who keeping them in touch via a well. The students really Forum, which coincides with sits on the esc advisory com­newsletter telling of student in­provide encouragement and the lOth anniversary of the mission. terests and letters, said Kitz. motivation for those at the Lo­Center for Social Concerns, "Notre Dame is already at the It would also be instrumental gan Center." consisted of three "breakout" forefront of national service, we in sending graduates a coordi-Volunteering in the CSC pro-sessions to discuss ways to im­just need a strategic plan to 
see ALUMNI I page 4 
prove alumni club involvement jump all over it and start doing see CSC I page 4 
Confusion in tryouts disrupts cheerleading program 

By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Amid confusion over recent changes in cheerleading style and the number of Saint Mary's students allowed to become Notre Dame cheerleaders, the cheerleading squad will hold a meeting on Thursday afternoon to clarify the direction of the program and announce the new coach. 
According to former cheer­leading captain Tyler Moore, the new coach of the program will be Kathleen Clements, wife of assistant football coach, Tom Clements. Clements will re­place Sports Marketing Director Jim Fraleigh, who became the interim coach of the team after Maria Maierek was dismissed in February. 
Majerek, who said she actu­ally chose to leave the program, said she thinks the Athletic Department has mishandled the che erle acting situation, particularly in the cases of Saint Mary's students Dana Bel­trondo and Julie Radca. 
Beltrondo and Radca were told minutes before tryouts that only one Saint Mary's girls would be allowed on the varsity squad. Both were varsity cheerleaders for the majority of last season. 
"It automatically put tension on us because we were sud­denly competing against each other for the varsity spot," said Radca. "The other girls from Saint Mary's were devastated. Some said they wouldn't even have gone through the trouble of trying out." 
Notre Dame has always had a policy of taking no more than one Saint Mary's student on the varsity squad, said Missy Con­boy, associate athletic director. "That stance was the most fair to Notre Dame students, while still maintaining our long­standing tradition with Saint Mary's," she said. 
But Majerek said that she was told at the beginning of the sea­son to "forget the quotas," and that she knew of no rule that would prohibit two Saint Mary's students on the varsity squad. 
Clements is expected to pre­sent her plans for the squad and outline the new nature of the program at the Thursday meeting, Moore said. 

The Athletic Department has set limitations on the team, prohibiting stunts that go above the height of two body lengths, according to Majerek. The limit will prohibit many stunts. 
"I think it's a step back," she said. "It will definitely be more difficult to lead the cheers. Stunts help the cheerleaders to be visible and reach out and at­tract attention," she said 
The changes in the cheer­leading program were made for insurance liability, reasons and to change the focus of the program to one that involves less performance and more cheering, according to Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal. 
But Majerek contended that the athletic department did not back up their reasoning. 
At clinics before tryouts, she said, "there was no adult su­pervision and no representation by the athletic department. If they were so concerned about injuries, someone should have been there," she said. 
Fraleigh, who directed the program at the time of the clin­ics, explained that the stunts were under two body lengths high. 
"The clinics were run by the captains, as was the case with all practices, with the stipula­tion that stunts were to go no more than two body lengths high," Fraleigh said. 
page 2 Monday, March 29, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Stalin was homophobic; I am not 

I am going to reveal something about myself. Something I could only reveal to 13,000 of my closest friends. I am homophobic. I can no longer listen to my 


Liberace records, my Kevin Hardman 
Rock Hudson movies Managing Editor 
are out the window, and as for seeing a 

Tennessee Williams -------­play-No Way! I am homophobic because I become stricken with fea.r, I will even say paralyzed, at the sight or mentiOn of homosexuality. The condition has become almost chronic. My fear could strike any time-watching the evening news, at_tendin~ a movie or walking down the quad With a fnend. I feel trapped by this horrendous mental condition ... The term homophobia has become quite a "buzzword" the past couple of years. Anyone who disagrees with the lifestyle and behavior o homosexuals is instantly termed a homophobic. T~e problems li~s in the fact that people accept !his term as bemg accurate, when it is highly maccurate. Homophobia is a mental condition. It means an exaggerated and often disabling fear o homosexuals. If we are to believe left-wing homosexual groups, then nearly nine out 10 o us would be incapable of movement. We would be incapable of going to work or school. or functioning in any normal capacity. This is surely not the case. The majority o use do not fell this anxiety, because the majority of. us are not homophobic. What these groups fail to understand is that there is a difference between fearing a lifestyle and simply disagreeing with it. · I believe that everyone is free to pursue the mo~e of happiness. that suits them, as long as their mode of happmess does not interfere with others. If people are happy as homosexuals, that is their right. Yet I also believe I have the right to disagree with their lifestyle. I don't wish homosexuals to die. I don't believe that a homosexual is any less a person than myself. I don't think that a homosexual should be deprived of any freedoms I enjoy. But I am not going to condone homosexuality because someone says I am homophobic. I do not suffer from a mental condition and do not need the treatment of a doctor. Certainly homosexuals do not prefer the lifestyle o heterosexuality, and some homosexuals probably disagree with my heterosexual existence. But how many homosexuals have been called heterophobic? During the 1920's, Josef Stalin order the murder of thousands, possibly millions o peo~le. Homosexuals where singled out specifically to be tortured and killed. Stalin was obviously a homophobic, Stalin was obviously mentally deficient. Isn't it unfortunate that a majority of the population is being lumped into the same category as this monster? No, it is not just unfortunate, it is insulting. Stalin was homophobic. Don't pin that term on me. 
The views expressed here are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
De K!erk may take oyer homelands 
• CAPETOWN, South Africa -The government is considering plans to restore South African control over three nominally independent black homelands, a newspaper reported Sunday. Government officials said the report by The Sunday Times was "unfounded speculation." The newspaper reported that President F.W de Klerk's government was considering taking control of Transkei, Ciskei and Venda. It said de Klerk was under pressure from within his National Party because of reports that Transkei's military government has harbored black radicals responsible for a recent wave of attacks on white civilians. A plan to take over the administrations of the three homelands will be put to multi-party constitutional talks later this week, the newspaper said. 
INDIANA 
ICLU warns schools against prayer 
• SYRACUSE, Ind. -The Indiana Civil Liberties Union is warning state school districts not to consider a vote by students permission to override a ban on prayer at graduations. The ICLU's action was prompted by a vote last week at Wawasee High School, where seniors decided to ~ave stude~ts give prayers at the opening and closing o their graduation ceremony. The district left the decision to the students after the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling that prayer at a Rhode Island junior high graduation was unconstitutional. Wawasee seniors had voted 127-14 in favor of prayer early last week. Another vote on Thursday passed 147-10. Alex Tanford, ICLU vice president, said his organization has had calls from several Wawasee school ~istrict resi_dents who are upset by any prayer at gradua­tiOn. He said the ICLU hopes to reach a compromise that would take prayer out of the graduation ceremony without having to go to court. 


• NOTRE DAME -Tanya BuJakowski and Hich Toohey are the new off-campus co-presidents. The Bulakowskiffoohey ticket won Friday's run-off election with 56.5% of the vote. "We are very excited and would like to thank everyone who helped us out and voted," Toohey said. "In order to reduce apathy off-campus, we plan to keep otT-campus students better informed and have more social events to bring the different housing units together," he added. Toohey also said he would welcome any suggestions from the other tickets. 
OF INTEREST 
~ A history and philosophy of science colloquium will be held at 2:45 p.m. titled "The Recovery of the Exact Sciences of Antiquity as illustrated in Vatican Manuscripts," by Noel Swederlow, University of Chicago. The colloquium will be held in 131 Decio. 
• 
Alex Kotlowitz, Wall Street Journal reporter and author of "There Are No Children Here" will give a lec­ture tonight at 7:30 titled "Children and Poverty," in the auditorium of Hesburgh Library. As part of SUB's "Thinking Anew" series, he will be addressing the do­mestic issue of children and poverty. 

• 
Father Bob Lombardo, '79, needs assistance in the new St. Anthony Residence for homeless men located in New York. There are a variety of tasks ranging from counseling to spiritual and recreational activities. Room and board are provided along with health insurance and a stipend of between $150-200 a month. Father Bob will be on campus today and tomorrow to discuss this 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 330,651,520 -0.35 to 246.91 S&P COMPOSITE -0.69 to 448.07 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -16.48 to 3445.38

UNCHANGED 609 


GOLD 
-$0.20 to $329.60 /oz 
SILVER -$0.6 to $3.648/oz 

exciting project at the CSC. For more information contact Mary Ann Roemer, 1-5293. ' 
• Troop Notre Dame will hold a meeting for those in­terested in performing for St. Ed's Carnival tonight at 9 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. Any questions, contact Ron at 4-1563 or Maria at 4-3820. 
• Th_e Spir~tan Associates, a lay missionary group asso~mted with the Holy Ghost Congregation, is seeking a philosophy lecturer for a small seminary in Tanzania. A bac_kgrou?d in philosophy is necessary and teaching expenence ts helpful. The term of service is 2-3 years with airfare, orientation, monthly stipend, insurance and reentry assistance provided. Loans may be deferred during service. Language of instruction will be English. Contact Mary Ann Roemer at the CSC or Nicki Vandergrift at the Spiritan Associates office, (412) 765­0733. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On this day in history: 
• 
In 1903: Regular news service begins between New York and London on Marconi's wireless. 

• 
In 1922: Census reports that 11 percent of the U.S. population speaks no English. 

• 
In 1936: Plebiscite gives Hitler a 99 percent vote of confidence in Berlin. 

• 
In 1944: Congress allots $1.35 billion for United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency (UNRRA). 

• 
In 1961: Twenty-third amendment is added to the 


U.S. Constitution, allowing D.C. residents to vote in presidential elections. 
Today's Staff 

SportsNews 
Becky Barnes Jason Kelly Michael O'Hara 
Viewpoint 
Production Rolando de Aguiar Cynthia Ehrhardt Melissa Cusack 
Lab Tech 
Pat McHugh
Accent 
Lisa Monaco 

Graphics
Matt Carbone Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction ri hts are reserved. 
-~-----~-----~---~--~--·---­
Monday, March 29, 1993 The Observer page 3 



Panel: Listening will aid race and gender relations 
By MICHAEL O'HARA 
News Writer 
Understanding and listening are needed to alleviate the con­flict between race, gender and society, according to the pan­elists of "When Race and Gen­der Clash!" forum held Sunday. 
The forum featured students, professors and members of the South Bend community. 
"I think we need to recognize both race and gender." Tony a Callahan, Notre Dame sopho­more, said. "Race and gender go hand in hand and are two sides of the same coin." 
Other panelists agreed. "The two are hand in hand because both are discriminating tools used in society," Virginia Calvin, Director of Curriculum for South Bend Community School Corporation, said. 
In a historical perspective, "race is far more important than gender." Washington said. Yet. "race and gender are parallel in regards to the black experience." 
However. when race and gender do clash one will have to take precedence over the other, concluded the panelists. 
"It depends on the situation," Calvin said as to which should take precedence over the other. 
I lilary Hadner. assistant pro­fessor in the department of communications and theatre, agreed. "One has to look at the context," she said. 
But Callahan expressed a somewhat different view. "It does not come down to a spe­cific time," she said. However. there is "never a time for a woman to disrespect herself in order to uphold the black race." 
rt Washington, Chaplin 







'"'''ei II 
jerfor1i~ ~is fe~JI\io~s of q\\ lhe B·l \\ Joe\ c. Io.ssi1c.s 

T~toDoR.l) 
(2'J f\oo~ l• for\u~e) ~o~1~~ 1 ~~rc~~~h \oo I~ ~ 

Lf..~ ()~
'{ t;,~ 
at Saint Joseph's Medical Cen­ter, said that race holds a dif­ferent place than gender. 
"Racism is a defining issue for our culture," he said. "If there was no Civil Rights movement, than there would have been no feminist movement." 
Radner agreed with this point 
and said she saw a  potential  
problem  with  the  feminist  
movement.  

"Part of the problem of the feminist movement is that it tends to exclude other groups," she said. "There is a real dan­ger in the feminist position in that it favors gender (over problems of race). 
"Gender is not the only posi­tion where discrimination takes place," Radner said. 
Callahan said she sees this problem as well. "I think women fail to realize they must face a question of gender and of race." 
Because of the position of African-American women, they must sometimes compete with their male counterparts. This competition, according to Smith, is straining male/female relationships in the African­American community. 
The male perspective should be "l am not trying to take the whole show but rather share the show with you," Smith said. 
lrv Smith, Notre Dame senior, also said he felt instead of the male or female "making it" the entire African-American community should make it." 
Calvin, however, disagreed. 
"The male of color is less likely to succeed than a female of color," she said. 
But Clarence Thomas did succeed by succeeding Thur­good Marshall on the Supreme 

-+As 


Court. 
"What he (Thomas) did, if that be fact, was wrong," Callahan said. "Clarence Thomas has done nothing for the black race ... I am not sure how much of a black male Clarence Thomas is." 
Smith had more of a problem with Anita Hill's side of the is­sue, but not with what she stood for. 
"Anita Hill had the right, my problem is with the timing," Smith said. "The problem is not what Anita Hill did, but when she did it. 
se~JJ .1N 

\h~ 
Ke.e JqJ Re.'JtJ ~ ... 
~.-­


"The bad light was not just on Clarence Thomas, but on the black race," Smith said. 
The panel tended to agree that the solution could be found if people listened to each other. 
"We need to listen with un­derstanding," Tina Buchanon, Saint Mary's senior, said. 
But according to Calvin, "Understanding is not coming fast enough." 
She said that nothing could be achieved until "we have ad­dressed the issue of race ... until we address the issue of race we are all talking to the wilder­ness." 
Callahan agreed to issue of difference needing to be ad­dressed. 
"We do have differences, we are all different people, that's what we need to realize and that's what we need to share," she said. 
Washington also saw a need for respect. 
"We really do need to respect others, love ourselves, and cel­ebrate our diversity," he said. "I think we all have a lot to learn." 


Foreplay in the Making! 
Happy Birthday 

D.J. Murry! 
Love, Bob, Daniella, Juju, Jon and the rest of the TN D 

Judith A. Reisman, Ph.D. 
Director, Institute for Media Education 
Monday, March 29 at Notre Dame 
12:00 Law School Room 105 "Sexual Rights Legislation" 
4:00 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
"Homosexuals in the Military: The Scientific Facts" 
8:00 DeBartolo Room 101 "Media and Sexuality" 
Sponsored by: Jacques Maritain Center John M. Olin Foundation Young America's Foundation 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer Monday, March 29, 1993 

The Observer/Jon Thorn 

In Harmony 
"The South Bend Chamber Singers" perform at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The concert was held Saturday at 8 p.m. Many cultural events take place in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

esc 
continued from page 1 
gram's has benefitted the vol­unteers as much as those re­ceiving their help. 
"Service at Notre Dame has made my college career special, and it is one of the things that I'll remember most. Service gives one a depth of vision beyond what one can learn in class," said ND senior Katie O'Gara. "It is only through 





Women 
continued from page 1 
of CTS Corp. in Elkhart Ind.; Karen McCartan DeSantis a partner in a Washington, D.C. firm; Sister Barbara Ann Sullivan, a governing board member of her order and formerly staff attorney for the Appalachian Research and Defense Fund; and Kym Wor­thy, assistant prosecuting at­torney for Wayne County, Mich. 
hands-on interaction that you can really learn from people about people." 
"One reason that I got in­volved was that there was a lot of great activities for students to get involved with. I feel a service requirement form the University would also definitely be beneficial," said Morrissey sophomore Terrence Porter. 
"It is amazing to see all of the groups that are here in one place. The student support around here and their willing-
Today, women lawyers are steadily increasing in numbers and "it is increasingly becoming easier for women lawyers to meet their career goals," said DeSantis, a 1986 Law School graduate. "In my firm women are well-integrated into the practice." 
There are situations, particu­larly with clients from a differ­ent generation, where women really need to teach them that they are the equal of their male 
keep them informed of pro­grams available for their in­

Alumni 
volvement, he said. Initiating contact with current
continued from page 1 
students is also a priority in in­creasing involvement esc with 
nation manual co-written by 
alumni, according to Kitz. the CSC and the Alumni Asso­
Sending a club newsletter to 
ciation, which would serve to current students, and including 

ness to help is great," said freshman Elissa Micek. 
"Its great that so many people here at ND get involved. We have all been given a lot to come here and its terrific to give something back," said Mary Fillmon, sophomore. 
The Center for Social Con­cerns coordinates a wide vari­ety of programs, some of which run year round. Students are encouraged to contact the esc for further information. 
counterparts, said DeSantis. 
Johnston expects the pro­gram to draw a large audience, including about 45 alumnae from all across the country. In addition, the reflection of Law School alumnae on their ca­reers are being compiled into a booklet which will be dis­tributed at no charge. 
The program is free and open to members of the ND community as well as the gen­eral public. 
a student column in club newsletters were ideas pro­posed to achieve this goal. 


Conserve. 

Yeltsin, Khasbulatov survive removal vote 
MOSCOW (AP) -Bot.h Presi­dent Boris Yeltsin and his chief political rival claimed victory Sunday after surviving an at­tempt by the Hussian Congress to remove them from office. 
But the secret ballot by the Congress of 
... People's Deputies left the country's political crisis unresolved 
after a Boris Yeltsin dramatic day of rejected compromise and huge street rallies. "A communist coup has failed. The people have won," Yeltsin told thousands of cheer­ing supporters outside the Kremlin after the vote. Waving his fist, he then led the crowd in a chant of "Hussia! Russia! Russia!" 
Despite the euphoria, Yeltsin is now in the same predicament he faced before the Congress 
convened Friday. He vowed to press ahead with an April 25 referendum to resolve his power struggle with the parliament, dominated by former Communists who want 

. to slow his free-market re­forms. 
The parliament's electoral commission announced 617 legislators cast their ballots for Yeltsin's ouster, short of the 689 votes, or two-thirds of the Congress, needed to remove him. 
Only 339 lawmakers voted to replace his rival, parliament speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov. At least 517 votes, a simple ma­jority of the 1,033-member Congress, would have been needed to replace the 50-year­old parliament leader. 
The vote followed Congress' rejection of a compromise pro­posed by Yeltsin and Khasbula­tov in an effort to end t!Hlir po­litical battle. 
The compromise enraged the legislators because it would have eliminated the Congress -and their jobs -in favor of a smaller, bicameral legislature. 
After the vote was an­nounced, the Congress ad­journed until Monday. Khasbu­latov thanked the lflgislators for their support and said he was surprised by the outcome. 
"During the three years that I have filled this post ... I thought many more deputies had reason to be dissatisfied with me," he said. 
Khasbulatov added that the voting signaled the need for a change in Yeltsin's economic reforms. "When an enormous number of deputies ... almost remove the president from of­fice, we all have to think about this signal very seriously." 


"::t: 
or copies from your color original, (8.5x11 or less)r(\i i 
Or, have your color original digitized and saved inO · either Mac or Oos format. .·.·.·.· ·.· ··· 
:::::.;:· 
Color copies of 4-6 originals can usually{?~ made while you wait. All other services ml,lly~?~~ :::=:t:C 3-5 working days to·com plete~!i.J.j,!l!JjiJ.jjjjj·j.,,i.JJi·; . • 




~;~~~.!~iifff£~~iilli~~~· ~~~~~~¥1111' 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
~ 
v~v 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future ­including the possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 4 
1:00 -5:00 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY APRIL 1 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry Office: 
Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Call 631-5242 for more information 





Monday, March 29, 1993 
Knight: Libertarians combine left and right 
He also pointed to the Viet­
By ANNIE VENESKY 
nam War as an example of the
News Writer 
use of the draft in wars which are viewed as unjust or 
The Libertarian party, the "interventionist" in nature. nation's third-largest political "The responsiblilty of the mili­party, offers an alternative form tary is to defend Americans in of political expression based on America, and not to be the In­individual freedom, said Joseph ternational Police Force," he Knight, a party representative, said. on Friday. 
The party also favors freeingFounded in 1972 in Denver, 
private entrepreneurs from
Col. by 85 people, the Libertar­entangling regulations such asian Party is growing steadily, 
tariffs, a Jeffersonian foreign
said Knight. In the 1990 off­policy of no meddling, and re­year elections, about 1.8 million placing taxes with user fees asAl\lericans voted for a Libertar­a payment for services. 
ian candidate, and about 100 Libertarian Party officeholders 
If autonomous private com­
now serve nationwide. he said. 
panies take control of govern­Libertarians believe that as 
ment-controlled industries,
long as individuals deal with 
such as schools, national parks,each other peacefully and hon­
and public libraries, "an up­
estly, they should be free to 
ward pressure would be ex­
make their own decisions and erted on quality and a negativelive their lives without govern­
pressure would be exerted on 
mental interference, said the price of goods and ser­
Knight. They promote liberal vices," he said. 
ideas such as free speech and personal liberties while also Private enterprises will take embracing conservative values more responsibilty for envi­such as free enterprise and ronmental concerns such as private property. he said. pollution and the use of natural 
Among the major tenets of resources, he said. the Libertarian party is the Anyone mttftested in ob­abolition of the military draft, taining more information about 
or "selective slavery," said 
the Libertarian Party can writeKnight. Using World War II as to: The Libertarian Party, 1528 an example, he explained that Pennsylvania Ave., SE, Wash­
"when a cause is viewed as 
ington, D.C. 20003 or call (800)just, many will volunteer, and 682-1776.
the draft is not needed." 
Still smiling 

Casting &Angling 
continue

after 19 years! 


to conserve

Happy Birthday! 

energy.

Classes held in JACC, Rolfs, and Campus Lakes 
Love, 

$8.00 class fee includes equipment Call RecSports at 631-6100 for more information 
Mom, Dad & jen 



Now Hiring 
If you're interested in working with people and would like to sell the latest styles from the hottest names in fashion -Girbaud, Z. Cavaricci, Pepe, Guess, Esprit, Lawman-we'd like you to apply. Working at The Buckle means a great experience in an enjoyable atmosphere, flexible hours and an excellent employee discount. 
APPLY IN PERSON 

Tuesday, March 30 from 9am-7pm Wednesday, March 31 from 9am-6pm 
~ 


B U C K L E 

UNIVERSITY PARK MALL IN THE HUDSON'S WING 
(NEXT TO GoRDON's) 





~--~ -~­

~-------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
Bresnahan: Compassion needed in care for the dying 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
Hospitals must be able to re­
vive the spirit of humility in 
their care for the dying, 
according to Father James 
Bresnahan, who spoke Friday 
on compassionate care for the 
dying. 
"At this point in history, each of us must take responsibility as an exercise of freedom to prepare for death," Bresnahan said. "We must start now to express this personal responsi­bility for our own death to avoid wasteful care." 
Bresnahan is not in favor of artificial means of prolonging life. "We must plan to manage our deaths by preparing testa­ments which would allow us to forego burdensome treatment at the end of life," he said. 
Bresnahan believes that hospice care, a method which involves constant attention from hospital employees and no machines. best exemplifies the necessary care for the dy­ing. 
"We need personal, social, and compassionate care for the dying. We must respond to the aging's fear of death by listen­ing to their life in review and helping them figure out who they are," Bresnahan said. 

Friends don •t let friends drive drunk. 
"With hospice, there is no 
need to ask to be killed, we can 
act freely wit!l regard to dying, 
and we can all understand for 
ourselves what we take to be 
the meaning of death," said 
Bresnahan. 

Many people think they can 
play a game with death, he 
said. But postponing death only 
makes it harder to accept, and 
people still struggle with the il­
lusion of immortality, he said. 
Giving up trying to control death makes one more inde­pendent, Bresnahan said. Death should be accepted as part of the human condition. 
"We must regain the mobility to let the barriers of morality down and look for the kind of political response that would support hospice care," said Bresnahan. 
"We live in a culture where physician-assisted death is OK, where aging people cannot trust the people in the hospital to know when to stop, and where some older people think that the only way to avoid pro­longed treatment is rational suicide," said Bresnahan. 
"We must honor our ideals, realize that death is inevitable, learn how to care for the dying, and do it well, through hospice care," Bresnahan said. 

The Observer 

Monday, March 29, 1993 
Religion is changing with times 
By AMY SANTANGELO 
News Writer 

As the country moves to ac­cept its diverse population. American churches are evolving to meet the needs of their members, according to Professor R. Stephen Warner of the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
"Churches can flourish when they articulate the cultural differences of their members," said Warner. If religion can change and adapt to meet the new demands of society, it cannot help but grow in strength and influence. 
Warner presented a lecture Friday on the topic of the "New Paradigm in th.e Sociology of American Religion." 
The "new paradigm" refers to the American experience of religion, which is quite differ­ent from the traditional paradigm of European secular­ization, he said. The current trend of worship is toward openness and disestablishment of the churches. 
Warner encountered this new attitude toward religion during a field trip to a liberal Protestant church in Chicago, where 90 percent of the con­gregation is male, and a majority of the couples are same sex. 
Warner said he saw life and enthusiasm atnong the con­gregation. They sang, held hands, cried, laughed, and took an active part in tho liturgy. The normal communion rite that takes about ten minutes in a Cathedral, took a half hour. he said. The female pastor took time with each person or cou­ple as they received commu­nion. 
This visit was the impetus to­ward the writing of Communi· ties in Faith, his most recent book. 
The thesis of his book is that homosexual churches will exist and no one has power enough to stop them. In the book, he discussed various topics about America and roligion that sup­port his idea. 
The book discusses religious freedom in America that allows people to start new religions. He emphasizes the idea of religious pluralism, the idea that the various ethnic groups in the U.S. can only enhance American religious variety, and its connection to religion. 
These groups embed Ameri­can traditions into their wor­ship practices, while maintain­ing their own autonomy, he said. 
Warner also presents the idea of a New Voluntarism in religion, which advocates that people are no longer required to accept the roligion "given" to them at birth. Rather, they are being offered many possibilities from which they may choose. 

DIPPING IS FOR DIPS. 
P R I 1\: C I P L E S of S 0 U :"\ D RETIRE,\\ E :'\ T I:"\\' EST I:"\ G 


UNFORTUNATE~ TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
E
very year, a lot ofpeople make a huge mistake on their taxes.They don't take advantage of tax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. 
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax-bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the "extras" that your regular pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in before-tax dollars, you pay less taxes now. And since all earnings on your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality of life. 

What else makes SRAs so special? A range ofallocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. 
Why write offthe chance for a more rewarding retirement? Call today and learn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. 

Benefit tUTWfrrnn tRX deferml. Ctdl 9Ur SRA botline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016. 
75 years ofensuring the future 
r 
\9..}

for those who shape it:M 
CREF certifu:ale.r art Ji.rtributtJ by TIAA-CREF lndiviJual anJ lfLftiiiJJioMI Strvice.r. For mort compktt information, incu.Jing cbarge.tanh.:rptfLfe.r, call 1800-842-27JJ, e.r/. 8016 for a prosputu..r. Read tbt prOJptciUJ carefully btjoiY you in11tJ/ or send nwnty.
_.' ······•·~ •• .>••• •-•••••••• ••oc~ •••••••••••••••••t 

----~----~---~----------------------------~----------~---------------~--...--------~~-­


Viewpoint 
Monday, March 29, 1993 page 7 
The Observer 

THE /?SUI..TIN(J AVAlANCHE 0 8UR1&5MYCABIN. tu/J51T Tlt3HT FOR A flAY OR. 7UOUNT/L,. J!UTHORJT/ts AI?& FINAUY 
At.ei</Et? BY CONCBRN/J/? FRIW/?5... 
~~~:r--...._ 
I 

SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK 
Survivor has pushed memories into past 
Dear Editor: 
I don't think about it every day anymore. I have managed to recover both physically and psychologically. I have pushed those memories to the very back of my mind. I am no longer afraid of every man that I meet, and I no longer blame myself for what happened. I have regained my self-confi­dence and I am whole once again. But it was not always this way. 
I used to replay the events of that night over and over again in my head: the drinking, "hooking up," breaking pari­etals, laying in bed with him, falling asleep, and finally, wak­ing up to the sharp pain of a man's penis inside me for the first time. 
I wanted to scream, to cry, to run out the door, but I could do nothing. Later that morning I tried to convince myself that it was only a dream. The blood­stained sheets, however, told 
~ Y'" 
me that it was real. 
I had a hard time accepting that I had been raped by some­one that I had known and trusted. This is Notre Dame, after all, where bad things don't happen to good people. 
I hated myself for having al­lowed him to take control of me. I consider myself a strong person, and so this violation was devastating to me. It was as if he ripped a piece of my soul away. 
In the three years since the rape I have had to rebuild my self-confidence, my trust in others, and my faith in myself. No one would ever guess from observing me today that I was once a helpless victim. Today I refer to myself as a survivor. I write this letter not to elicit sympathy or pity but to inform this community that rape hap­pens at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
A Survivor Dear Reade ...: week devoted to inform the __ \'\fe llave heJd your letters 
At this time of year•. mQ.St Notre Dan1e and Sa.in.t Maty's to'day in. order to let some Notre Dame students are. hrtsy eommUJiities a~put _U, .topic·that sUrvivors tell their stori~$. thinking about. Bookstore .ma.nyof us would rather not These accountS are real and Basketball. springtime sun~ discuss;;:\·· .IE.: di!:;turbing. But read th('lm, and 
shine and the end of the school •. i. ... . ..·.· ·.·.. .. . . .... .·.·•· try to understand the pain that 
year, .· · J!i§/ The i.:lifiOtiol)&thatc&,~e rape; th{lf;e surviyors have endured. . But the spring is also a time. ~n9. th.p$.e tlla.t J"ape {;a~s.('ls, a,re A• B{lcatise ~nly then yVill you .J>e at which sexual assault rates · th{l most unpleasant · that · able to +;.understand the 
rise around. the nation.;.," any<>ne.can·eXp{lriepce,S!lWe il;nportanc£lOfawareness, :0, Sadly, Notre Dame and Saint usuallyavoidtlwls~ues. . ;;; .··.·······...· Thanks to C.A,R;E, andihe Mary's are not immune from ·But we all must try to deal!\!Fsurvivors who bravely col).!ont tllese tragedies. Even UI).der the..(fh;with $~.X:M~l ass~ult •. Rap£l the re!l.lities ofsexual assault. 
Golden Dome, sexual assaults···•· happelis ~verywhere~ even and rapes occur; here--" to m;uiy p{lople~ven Rolando de Aguiar Sexual Awareness Week is a::y you; or someone you love. 
.. Viewpoint Edttor 
::: .. ·=.·=~~h,:,:: .... 
··:A 

C.A.R.E. wants to help rape victims 
Dear Editor: 
We, the chairpersons of ND/SMC C.A.R.E. (Campus Al­liance for Rape Elimination), would like to explain the pur­pose of the letters found in to­day's Viewpoint. These letters were written by ND/SMC stu­dents who are survivors of sex­ual assault. We thank and commend them for their courage and honesty in writing about an issue that is very per-

Talking about assault is first step back 
Dear Editor: 
I am a Notre Dame senior. Five years ago, when I was a junior in high school, I lost my virginity to a rapist. At first, I only blamed myself because I liked him, I went to school with him, and at the time of the rape, I was drunk. It wasn't until my freshman year at Notre Dame that I realized that I was raped and that I was not at fault for what had happened to me. 
Sophomore year at Notre Dame, a close friend of mine told me that she was raped, a year earlier, in a situation simi­sonal and difficult to talk about. 

Our hope in publishing these letters is to sensitize the mem­bers of our community to the occurrence of sexual assault. National statistics indicate that one out of every four women will be assaulted in her lifetime and that 10% of all rape victims are male. 
These statistics indicate that sexual assault affects many people-both women and men. 
Jar to mine. It made me feel strong to be there for her and to support her through her traumatic experience. 
Through my four years at Notre Dame, I have been able to talk to many women about my rape experience and have surprisingly discovered that a large number of these women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have had some type of sexual assault experience in their lives, also. 
By telling my story, I have been able to come to terms with my rape. I know that being raped has forced me to become 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
We hope the events we sponsor this week will help raise this community's awareness and understanding of this issue. 
Jeanie Straka, SMC Jen Sypolt, SMC Sheila Buckman, ND Kristen Clark, ND Michele Cummings, ND Jenny Witt, ND Stacy Jones, ND 
C.A.R.E. Chairpersons 
who I am today. I am a happy, self-confident, successful woman who is going to make sure my experience will benefit others, as I plan to attend graduate school next fall to receive a degree that focuses on social service. 
The rape will never leave my past. I know that I am not the only woman who has been a victim of rape. I also know that I do not want other women to be forced to experience the trauma of rape. I am a survivor and I will continue to fight for the survival of others. 
A Survivor 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor.••...... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager .•......... Kathy Fong Accent Editor..•.....•••..... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................•.. Jake Peters OTS Director................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .••. Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor·in·Chief 631·4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631·4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 
631-6~g~~::jg ,
Sports 631·4543 Systems/OTS News/Photo 631·5323 Office Manager 631·7471 
"All violence, all that is dreary and repelled, is not power, but the absence of power." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
Stop the violence. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 


Viewpoint

page 8 Monday, March 29,1993 
SEXUAL ASSAULT AWARENESS WEEK 
Assaults can steal childhood Assaulted woman could be 
Dear Editor: 
As graduation rapidly ap­proaches, I have found myself evaluating my time here at Notre Oame. While not com­pletely unique. I believe my ex­pllriences here havll been quite different from those of many others. They are unique in that during my freshman year while my friends worried over grades, parties and boyfriends. I was faced with the painful ordeal of remembering sexual abuse which occurred during my childhood. 
The abuse that I endured was inflicted upon me by my grand­father. My grandparents lived with my family and because my parents were unable to spend much time with the family, I looked to my grandparents as my primary caretakers. During my childhood my grandfather was the most important person in my life and I trusted him and loved him more than anyone else. 
That all changed, however, my freshman year of college when I began remembering the abuse. I had managed to suppress it for many years but I finally reached a point where I had to face the ugly, painful truth. 
Once I began remembering the abuse, my life became a liv­ing nightmare. I felt so many emotions at once: hurt, anger, betrayal, sadness, guilt and shame. I could not believe what I was remembering and I just wanted to hide from everyone and everything. I felt like my whole childhood was a lie, and in the instant that I remem­bered the abuse, I felt like !lost my childhood. 
This issue consumed my be­ing and I withdrew into myself to protect myself from others. I naturally assumed it was im­possible for me to ever trust or depend on anyone ever again since the one person I cared about the most in my childhood betrayed my trust and hurt me as no one had ever hurt me before. 

It took a long time for me to muster the courage to talk about the abuse for I had con­vinced myself that others would be horrified and would some­how hold me responsible. 
Working through the abuse has been a long uphill battle. I never knew anything could be so painful and difficult and quite often. so all-consuming. As I have worked through the abuse, however, I have grown an incredible amount and it has shaped me into the person I am today. 
I am a much more compas­sionate and sensitive person because of my own life's expe­riences. The one good I see as a result of the abuse is being able to use my own experiences to help others work through theirs. I am now able to recog­nize my own strengths and abilities and I realize that I am not a victim but a survivor . 
.Although there was a time when I was upset that my time here at Notre Dame was so dif­ferent than the majority of others, I have come to see the beauty in that difference. Re­membering the abuse and working through it has changed my time at Notre Dame but it has definitely been a change for the better. 
My focus has been redirected to areas and issues that are of true value and importance and I cherish those people who have been true friends and have walked my difficult path with me. I am grateful that I was given the opportunity to change myself for the better and that I was able to change my future by working through my past. 
A Survivor 

Woman lives with fear and pain 
Dear Editor: 
I never thought a vacation could turn into a traumatic ex­perience until I was a sopho­more in high school. My aunts, my brother, and I drove from the North to Miami in a little Ford Escort. As we entered Florida, the sun shone bright and radiated its humid heat upon us. An aura of happiness, joy and love surrounded us as we arrived at my cousins' home. 
When we reached our desti­nation, we piled out of the car and headed for the beach. Un­fortunately for us albino north­erners, the sun's hllat was a little too shiny. Needless to say. I fried. My brother, a freshman in high school, was under­standing I helped to put mois­turizer on my burnt back. 
I remember laying on my stomach, totally exhausted, and thinking what a great guy my brother was! The next thing I knew, I was on my back with my brother on top of me saying. "Do not scream. You do not want someone to know what is going on in here." lie got up and locked the door. 
I was never so seared in all my life, even though I had be­come accustomed to my brother's violence. As I lay there, I remembered his violent 

sitting next to you right now 
Dear Editor: 
I was molested when I was 13 years old. My mother always told me to beware of strangers. She never told me to beware of family. That's right, I'm an incest survivor, and I go to Notre Dame. 
Now, I am an adult. I've had a relatively successful academic career thus far; I have many wonderful friends; I even have a healthy relationship with a man whom I love very much. Many people (including myself) would say I am a well-adjusted individual. 
Yet, when I am around this particular uncle, I feel as if I'm 13 again. Somehow, what hap­pened is once again my fault-even though logically I know this isn't true. The responsibility of dealing with the situation is mine. The pain and discomfort are all mine. With my family (those who know about the molestation), personal loyalties are divided: they love me, but they love him, too. 

They don't know how to rec­oncile their feelings, so they don't discuss it. Therefon~. I am alone as his mere presence drains my self-esteem-which I have worked so hard to regain. 
I know this is all pretty deso­late, but I didn't write this lettnr to invoke your pity. Please, don't get depressed about this. Get angry, because anger yields action. If you are angry about what has happened to me and millions of others, act. Haise your awareness. Become involved in the struggle against sexual assault. 
And for those of you who don't care, I only ask that you keep your sentiments to your­self. Who knows-! might be sitting right next to you. 
A Survivor 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week 
Monday, March 29 
6:30 p.m. Presentation by C.A.R.E. members for Concerned Others of sexual assault survivors. 
Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's 

Tuesday, March 30 
7:00p.m. Peer Harassment presentation by C.A.R.E. members. 
Siegfried Hall Chapel Lounge, Notre Dame 

Wednesday, March 31 
7:00 p.m. Take Back the Night march at 7:00 p.m. from the steps of the Notre Dame Administration Building to LeMans Circle, Saint Mary's. 
8:00 p.m. Sister Chain performs 
Dalloway's, Saint Mary's 

Thursday, Apri/1 
7:00 p.m. Self-Defense Instruction by Harold Wissel 
Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center 2nd floor, Notre Dame 

Friday, April 2 
TBA The Accused 
Location TBA 

behavior from the past year. During that period he would throw me into cupboards, downstairs and punishing me until I bruised. Then I realized what was really happening -I was being raped by one of the people I loved and trusted most in the world. He was my best friend. I remember thinking, "Why is he doing this?" I must be an awful person. I felt dirty, angry. humiliated, scared and confused all at the same time. I did not think I could ever look him in the face again without remembering that day. 
I kept thinking, "I must have done something to provoke the attack. It was all my fault." I cried myself to sleep for weeks. My parents thought I had gone psycho on them. Little did they know my fear and actions re­sulted from an incident that has scarred my life forever. 
I did not tell anyone about this until I was a senior in high school. Telling someone was very difficult since I never be­fore dealt with the rape. I never went to counseling or a help or support group. For two years, I lived in constant fear of my brother. I never though I could trust him again. My friend helped me realize that the rape was not my fault. I was still a good person who was capable of loving someone else, being loved by someone else and genuinely caring. This experience has made a definite impact on my life and I find it hard to trust males, even if they are my best friends. Now that I am in college, I have male friends and would not trade them for the world. 
I have a friend whom I would hate to lose. lie knows the story of my brother and sympathizes with me. He gives me encouragement and protects me from uncomfortable situa­tions. But even under his pro­tective wing, I fear I will be hurt again. Hopefully, someday this fear will vanish and I will feel the pain subside. But until then, I live with the fear of rape and my brother. 
A Survivor 

---~~--------------~------------------------------------------------------~-------------. 

Accent 
Monday, March 29, 1993 page 9 
Piano Inan 


Tim O'Neill, ND's version of Billy Joel, performs tonight at the Ballroom 
By PATTI CHERN him to perform some of these Even if only for a few minutes Accent Writer and other songs in full for the of listening, that climb up the Notre Dame community. He is stairs to the Ballroom of If you love Billy Joel or if you very comfortable combining LaFortune should prove to be simply love live music, be sure humor with musical talent, worthwhile. People are encour­to be at the LaFortune Ball­having written relevant spoofs aged to drop by when they can room between 9:00 and 10:30 on famous songs for variety amidst their studies or to stay 
p.m. 
to enjoy the humor and shows since high school. for the duration of the precision of a very talented mu­Playing since the age of five, performance. sician. Pianist and singer Tim O'Neill has a broad range of O'Neill says he will play the O'Neill will be performing sev­influences and a rather large Ode to Patty O'Hara if it is re­eral Billy Joel classics as well as repertoire, including some orig­quested. "Hey, maybe Patty some original new age works inal compositions. He has O'Hara will come," says O'Neill. on the piano tonight, Monday, recorded tapes for others which 'Til save a seat for her right in Feb. 29th beginning at 9:00 include on them "new age, easy front." 

p.m. 
and lasting until about listening, George Winston type If you miss his playing 


10:30. Admission is free. pieces." He has also produced tonight, you can enjoy O'Neill's 
O'Neill, a junior from Keenan seasonal tapes, featuring talents at Keenan Hall masses Hall, received a standing Christmas songs. Tonight he every Sunday or at any Glee ovation at the Keenan Revue will feature Billy Joel, perform­Club performances. this year when he sang a ing such classics as "Captain rousing Billy Joel spoof "Ode to Jack, " "She's Always a Patty O'Hara" and interspersed Woman," and "Piano Man, several of the more difficult "enhanced by the talents of Dil­instrumental works of Joel in lon Hall's Tony Garza on saxo­
Tim O'Neill, a junior in Keenan Hall, will perform Billy Joel songs as well 
between verses. The response phone and Keenan's John Se­
as his own compositions tonight at the Ballroom at 9 p.m. he has received has encouraged bastian on acoustic guitar. 
Kotlowitz to speak on children in poverty 
By LARISSA HERCZEG be reading "There Are No Kotlowitz has received Accent Writer Children Here" in Core. and numerous awards for his book 
other litenl.ture or sociology including, the Helen B. Bern­You can see them in any city courses. stein Award for Excellence, the of the United States. You see He spent his childhood in World Hunger Media Award for " 
them on the news, or read an· New York City, then attended Best Book, the Carl Sandburg article about them, and thank Wesleyan University in Award for non-fiction, Friends God that you were not born into Middletown, Connecticut. of Literature Award, the Wash­their condition. They are He began his work in ington Monthly Political Book Ameriea's children living in journalism as a freelance Award, and many others. poverty, and they will be the writer for the "MacNeiVLehrer Kotlowitz's adept journalism topic of a lecture to be given by Hour," National Public Radio, skills even earned the Robert Alex Kotlowitz tonight. and numerous magazines. He F. Kennedy Journalism Award 
Kotlowitz is an award­also spent a great deal of time and the George Polk Award. winning journalist and working as a community Both these honors were bestselling nonfiction writer. organizer in Atlanta durig the bestowed upon him not for his Kotlowitz's emphasis during his 1970's. book, but for articles he wrote lecture is expected to be on the With the experience behind pertaining to the book. issue of poverty in America, him, Kotlowitz began his work Kotlowitz's awareness about especially impoverished chil­with the "Wall Sreet Journal." social situations in America is dren. Dan Alesia. the Student Joining the paper in 1984, partly what prompted the Stu­Union Board Commissioner re­Kotlowitz focused primarily on dent Board to invite Kotlowitz sponsible for Kotlowitz's urban affairs and social policy. to speak. He is among the final visit,encourages students to go Kotlowitz then took a two speakers in the year-long effort hear Kotlowitz's presentation. year leave of absence to work to increase awareness about so­
"Be is a great speaker, and is on his book, "There Are No cial issues. speaking on an intersting sub­Children Here: The Story of "Thinking Anew About Public ject. Before inviting him, I had Two Boys Growing Up In the Issues" began as a proposal seen an appearance he made Other America." The book was from the Sociology Department on "The Oprah Winfrey Show...: published in 1991 and to heighten student knowledge and I thought he would be a appeared on the "New York about social issues during an good choice for the 'Thinking Times" bestseller list for two election year. However, because 
I ' 

Anew Leeture Series."' months. of its success and the large Furthermore, many of the The work chronicles the life number of speakers who sophomores have had to or will of two brothers growing up in responded, the program has 
Chicago Housing Projects. been extended to accomadate 
all the speakers. 
Kotlowitz's presentation 
follows the recent lecture given 
by the President of the 
American Civil Liberties Union 
on February 7. Ellen Alderman, cause of his experience and first " the Hesburgh Library
the final speaker, will be at 
hand knowledge on the subject Auditorium at 7 pm., He is
Notre Dame on April 6th. She 
of children in poverty, Kot­expected to talk about children
will be discussing the First 
lowitz's speech promises to be in poverty, the subject of his
Amendment and other funda­
very interesting and book. The lecture is free, no
mental rights. 
informative. tickets are required, and a
Currently, Kotlowitz resides in 
Kotlowitz will be speaking brief reception will follow
Chicago and spends his time 
tonight, Monday March 29, in afterwards.
giving lectures and writing. Be-


page 10 The Observer Monday, March 29, 1993 
Notre Dame track teams shine on rainy road trips 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds IS 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces.

Classifieds 
7:30-9:00 individual or club/organization, financial security, and educational as low as 3¢ each Sign up in Senior class oHice 1· delivering The New York nmes FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT EUCHRE EUCHRE EUCHRE opportunities await your newborn. OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 5136 newspaper on campus. Please SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT B.P. EUCHRE We can help with your expenses. 
leave name & phone number for NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO TOURNAMENT Please call us collect: David and THURSDAY-St. Hedwigs Mike Mooney at IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS MAR CH 29 -APRIL 3 Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's 4:15-5:30 1-800-535-5031 . Will conduct 2773097 Sign up in dining halls TODAY help each other. "TROOP ND'"TROOP NO"' Meet at Lyons parking lot interviews week of April 5. or call Sheila at x 1268 DANCEDANCEDANCE 
Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2 $5/team CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. NO Meeting for those interested in SATURDAY-St. Hedwigs Serious ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT baths. Located College Park CASH PRIZES lor winners Grad. Happily married lor 4 years. performing for St. Ed's Party at NO -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in Condos. Corner of Bulla & Benefits Catholic Worker Anxious to adopt newborn infant. Carnival. .TONIGHT­
,.­
1:30@ Dillon canneries or $4000+/month on Ironwood. Must be responsible House Personal meeting welcome. Lawful MONDAY,3/29@9 PM, NOTRE 
fishing boats. Free transportation! tenat $595 permo or Sale &65,900. and proper pregnancy related DAME ROOM (2nd floor LaFortune) SUNDAY-CLASS MASS Room & Board! Over 8000 Send info to PO Box 4075 South expenses paid. Couple approved by Questions? call Ron@ 1563 or 7:00pm openings. No experience Bend IN 46634. SEE ALEX KOTLOWITZIII Texas adoption authorities in Maria@3820. Dillon Hall necessary. Male or Female. For AUTHOR OF THERE ARE NO advance of placement. State DANCEDANCEDANCE 
employment program callt-206-3-5 PERSON FURNISHED CHILDREN HERE tells lives of supervised adoption procedures. "'TROOP ND"TROOP ND" "SENIORS"' 545-4155 ext. A5584 HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM, inner city brothers Call collect: David & Maureen WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL, MONDAY., March 29th in (512) 452-3416. SENIORS !!I 
ILOST & FOUND I HELP MEl 
PRIME LOCATION. Lib. Aud. @ 7:30 pm. 233-9947. FREE LECTUREII Reception to SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS Need an extra ticket for I need a ride to DC for Easter! I'll follow LONDON Graduation! If you're not 
Three Irish men qualify for IC4A's 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The men's track team had an exemplary weekend. The team split off into three separate 
squads that competed at North Carolina State, Purdue and Eastern Kentucky. At all three of these meets the team had 

q u a I i t y Jon Smerek 
performances. 
At Purdue, Tom Mescall high jumped 6'9 1/2" and long jumped 23' 6". Dan Grenough pole vaulted 15' 3" and placed second. 
"Dan did a real fine job," said Irish head track coach Joe Pi-ane. 
At Eastern Kentucky, Chris Lilly set a big time personal record by running the high hurdles in 14.46 seconds. Ray Holder won the long jump with a mark of 22'8 1/4" and he won the triple jump with a mark of 23' 5". Joe Dunlop placed sec­ond in the 5000 meters with a time of 15.23.08. And finally Mike Dierks won the 800 me­ters. 
"We had a good meet. Ev­eryone that went down there competed really well," said Notre Dame Track coach John Miller who attended the meet at Eastern Kentucky. "However, the weather was a lot nicer in South Bend than it was there so it may have played a role in some of the performances." 
At North Carolina State, Brian Headrick placed second in the high jump. Jon Smerek and Stuart Tyner both qualified for the IC4A's in the discuss. 
Piane said, "The 4 x 1500 meter relay team did a credible job." The team finished fourth. 
Keith O'Brien finished thirrd in the all freshman 1500 meter run with a time of 3:56. 
Finally, also at North Carolina, John Cowan placed second in the 3000 meter steeple chase and qualified for the IC4A's. 
"But when you consider he ran in a driving rain storm and a hail storm he did a terrific job," remarked Piane. "It was less than ideal conditions, but he still ran very well." 
"All in all we had a good weekend. The guys competed well. What we're trying to em­phasize is not necessarily trying to get a particular time or jumping a particular distance or getting a particular height, but just competing," said Piane, "All the good marks will come if you compete well." 
Wet conditions don't dampen women's performances 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's track team competed at East­ern Kentucky and North Carolina St. this past weekend against not only some tough east coast competition, but also some rough weather. 
The elements played a key role in limiting individual ef­forts on Friday and Saturday. Hail pounded the track in Raleigh, NC, and poor weather conditions forced the Irish to scratch runners in several late events. Despite the conditions, the team felt good about returning to racing form in their first outdoor meet of the season. 
"I believe we needed the rest, but it felt good to race again," said Kala Boulware, who com­peted at Eastern Kentucky Sat­urday. "With a month off, we felt fresh at the meet this weekend." 
Before the weather halted activities at Eastern Kentucky, exceptional performances were turned in by Emily Husted, who was second in the 1500 and the top Irish finisher in the 800 meter run. Kristi Kramer finished in second place in the 5000 meter run, and freshman Erica Peterson led the team in the sprinting categories. 
At the Raleigh Relays, Sarah Riley and Stefanie Jensen 

placed fourth and fifth, respec­. "We're all pretty happy with tively, in the 5000 meter run our performances," com­behind runners from George­mented Riley. town and Providence, while The Irish will continue their both Karen Harris and Rachel outdoor season next weekend Kavanaugh placed highly in in Austin, TX, at the Texas Re­the shotput. lays. 

NOTICES WANTED
I I 
SUMMER JOBS TYPING 256-6657 ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
''SENIORS'' 
SERVICE WEEK March 29-April 4 
MONDAY-St. Hedwigs 4:15-5:15 meet at Main Circle 
TUESDAY-Homeless Shelter Service Day I:D0-3:00 3:00-5:00 Meet at Main Circle 
WEDNESDAY-Habitat for Humanity Service Day 5:30-7:30 PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-
Earn $2,000+/month + world travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career 
employment available. No 
experience necessary. For 
employment program call 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 
1 bdrm subleased apt, May 20-Aug. 20. Chris (217) 581-2812. 
Excellent financial opportunity for hard working, responsible 

SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 bdrms, close to campus, safe neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all utilities. Call Monica 
232-2794. 
Oakhill Condo For Rent! 2BR loft, 28th, fireplace, WID, garage, tyr lease. Call Carloine or Bill at 317­297·8485 
CASTLE POINT Roomate needed for next semester. 273-YOGI 
3-5 person furnished house, SEC Syst, wash/dry, Beach V-Ball, Prime Locaton 233-9947. 
SUMMER SESSION -Visiting Professors, grad students. 
4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities. $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call Paul or Monica 232-2794. 
PERSONAL 
Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. 
BILLY JOEL TONIGHTII LaFortune Ballroom 9 -!0:30pm 
ALL YOU CAN EAT SPAGHETTI 3t Frosh Formal Top Ten EVERY MONDAY 10. We have to get the $3.95 pantyhose out or the ran 
AT THE 9. Just put some throw PASTA CAFE pillows on the couch­1636 N. IRONWOOD It'll look fine 
8. It's the copsl Hey, it's a Pregnant and feeling alone with no f-in' party! With minors! where to tum? We offer confidential F-Youl counseling at no cost to you. For 7. I'm a lamp more information call Nancy at 232-6. I'm a telephone receiver 5843. 5. You have to ditch your date 
HAVETOI Adoption: Doctor and teacher will 4. Those in-breds all have make dreams for your baby come really bad teeth true. Full-time parenting. Best of the 3. Rule #4-no barfing, polkamotion city; summers by the beach; your 2. Rule #1-NO SCREAMING baby rocked to sleep by a cozy 1. Like a jackhammer-fireplace in winter. and by ocean RAMRAMRAMRAMII waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
in LaFortune Student Center ADOPTION: A loving happy home, QUALITY COPIES 

LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING. OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL DINAMARIE "DIDI" GARCIA X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL. 
LOST-MEN'S SILVER CLADDAUGH RING. LOST help w/ gas & tolls. Call Kim -x3885 
ride anywhere bit Des Moines/KG for Easter Diane4x4828 
Going to Boston area or Ct. for Easter? will pay lor gas/tolls if u take me can lv. 4/7 284-5073 Liz 
50,000,000 Babies 

FOR SALE  SEE ALEX KOTLOWITZ! AUTHOR of THERE ARE NO  
CHILDREN HERE (Core text and  
best-seller)  
'83 Honda Accord for sale  MONDAY at Lib. Aud. at 7:30 P.M.  
Great Cond. & Gas Miles  FREE I!! reception to follow  
Call Patricia 4-4305  
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY  
ND SKI TEAM Shirts  BECCA II  
Only $10 ... Call John x1160  You owe me for not putting a picture  

(TRAVEL IN IRE., SCOT.,ENG. planning to use all yours 
& FR.) AND ROME (TRAVEL IN PLEASE call Kris at 4-2005. 
FR., GER., SWITZ.) UP TO 9 
COLLEGE CREDITS AVAILABLE. VERY IMPORTANT! 
FOR INFO CALL PROF A.A. 
BLACK. 284-4460 OR 272-3726. 
ND junior's sister & brother-in-law HELP!! I RIDE NEEDED... recently lost 2 infants to genetic MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OH) disorders. They would like to adopt APRIL 2 .. WILL DONATE$$ a child. Large family w/lots of love. CALL EMILY X2922 

ON 3125/93. ENORMOUS  ad in. Have a GREAT  If you can help or know one who  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CHRIS @ 4452. THANKS..  FOR RENT  I  I  TICKETS  day!!  Love, Ceila  can, please call x3314 or (517)531­3219 collect  The Frosh 4+ 1 One-Acts Continues... APPROACHING LAVENDAR  
Four bedroom furnished Oakhill  !I!Helplll  "SENIORS"  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  Tues. Mar 30 7pm  
Condo open for summer rental.  Need commencement tickets.  LaF Ballroom ITS FREE!!I!II  
Lost: A pair of Polo glasses with  Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug  Call Ken @ 1927  This is  LAST DAY TO BORROW:  
black rims.  Shows the Polo  @ 614-237-1370 for info.  SERVICE WEEK  
emblem on the inside of each nose  May Graduates: 2/19/93  Joanne,  
piece. Possibly left in South Dining  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  Please, Please, Pleasell!l  "SENIORS"'  Happy Birthday I a little late.  
Hall or Morrissey Manor.  Please  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  I need two commencement  All Others: 3/31/93  Love you, Dad,  
call at x3508 and ask for Josh.  219-291-7153.  tix I Call Jennifer@ 277-5972  Who's Your Daddy?  Mom, Angela, Jim, and Mary  

Monday, March 29, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Rain hampers Winthrop Invitational 

By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
While Notre Dame students played outside in warm and sunny South Bend for the weekend, the Notre Dame soft­ball team continued their string of bad weather in Rock Hill, SC. 
Instead of completing seven games in a warm environment, the Irish only had the chance to play twice on Friday before rain wiped out the rest of the schedule. 
The two games produced an extra inning 3-2 loss to the University of South Florida and a 8-0 romp over Mercer Uni­versity to improve Notre Dame's record to 9-7 on the year. 
"It was a tough situation to play only two games," said coach Liz Miller. "We can't control the weather and it's be­come really frustrating." 
"We need to get more games in," added Miller. "It might hurt us in terms of regional competition because other teams did play." 
In Friday's 9:00 AM contest against South Florida, the Irish broke out to a 2-0 lead in the top of the third inning. After singles by seniors Ronny Al­varez and Lisa Miller to start the inning, junior shortstop Christy Connoyer doubled to score both runs. 
"We finally came out ready to play in a morning game," said co-captain Alvarez. "Unfortunately, they came back and caught us." 
After cutting the deficit to 2-1 in the fifth inning, South Florida scored an unearned run in the sixth to tie the score at two. The score remained 
Photo courtesy of ND Sports Information Senior Ronny Alvarez sparked the Irish offense in an 8-0 romp over Mercer this weekend. 
tied at the end of regulation, and the teams played international tiebreaker rules for the extra inning period. The rules state that the previous inning's last batter starts on second base with no outs. 
The Irish had the first shot at it, but failed to score. South Florida scored in the bottom half of the inning on a check swing base hit to win it. 
"One mistake in the sixth, and bad luck in the eighth inning lost it for us," commented Miller. "It was a fluke hit, but it cost us a victory." 
Freshman Terri Kobata went the distance on the mound for the Irish. Her record fell to 3-2, but she gave up only three hits, while striking out ten and walking one. "I made some I pitched well," said Kobata. 
Kobata has allowed only 17 hits in 33 innings pitched for the season. Also, she has struck out 36 batters. "The whole team working together has really helped me on the mound," continued Kobata. 
At the plate, the Irish re­mained in their mini-hitting slump with only five hits. Al­varez's two singles and Con­noyer's double were the high­lights. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, their bats came alive in the second game of the day. They pounded out 13 hits, while freshman pitcher Kara Brandenburg limited Mercer to only two hits in seven innings. Brandenburg improved her record to 2-0 for the year. 
"We came alive at the plate, because Andrea Keys and Sara Hayes got us going," said Miller. 
The two sophomores pro­duced seven hits between them and drove in five of Notre Dame's runs. Keys had four hits and Hayes contributed three. Brandenburg helped her own cause with a two out bases loaded double which drove in three runs. 
"Mercer wasn't really a good team," said Alvarez. "But we did play well." 
Coming up for the Irish, they open their home schedule at the new complex across from the Eck Pavilion on Tuesday against Indiana. They face Western Michigan on Thurs­day. 
"We're finally coming back home," said Alvarez. "We're fired up about this week." 
"It's our home opener," concluded Miller. "We're ex­cited and we'll be ready to go." 
The "Wild Video Dance Party" is a self­
contained touring video dance show featuring: -video projection system -surround-sound concert -lighting and special effects package 
Our VJ (Rubin) will take requests from a library of over 2,500 video's, with everything from rock to rap, urban to country, reggae to top 40. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
own. 

A key to Notre Dame's defen­sive revitalization was the in­sertion of sophomore goalie Ryan Jewell, at the end of the first quarter, to replace senior Chris Parent. Jewell responded with aggressive goal play, chasing down loose balls and securing key possessions for the Irish, at a time when the team could have easily withered under Hobart's offensive attacks. 
"I was psyched to go in be­
cause the team was in a bind 
and really needed me to step up 
and stop the ball," Jewell said. 
"Hobart had an organized and 
patient offense which made us 
be patient and work the ball 
out of our zone up to the 
offense so we could get back in 
the game." 
With the halftime score 8-7 in 
Hobart's advantage, Notre 
Dame scrapped and clawed to 
an 11-11 tie after three quar­
ters. The Irish offensive finally 
cracked the Hobart defense for 
four goals with three of those 
coming from Colley, who would 
finish with five goals and two 
assists on the afternoon. 
So the scene was set for the 
fateful fourth quarter, and after 
senior attacker Bo Perriello 
scored four minutes into the 
quarter, the Irish were once 
again on top and looked as 
though they had finally climbed 
out of the hole they had dug for 
themselves. 
Hobart, however, was not 
through, and after scoring 
three unanswered goals, took a 
14-12 lead with four minutes 
remaining. Then freshman 
middie Greg Glenday scored an 
improbable goal by swatting a

Destination Unknown raffle $1000 raffle to be given away at Dance Must be present to win this includes: 
A trip to an unknown destination Air Travel Accommodations Transportation to and from airport Spending Cash 
Kevin Mahoney past the un­suspecting Hobart goalie. 
With the score at 14-13, Sny­der and Colley took over, pro­ducing the game-ending heroics. 
"We'd battled back the whole game, and we weren't going to let it slip away in overtime," Ahmuty said. 
Butler next for streaking Irish lacrosse 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
After such an emotional win 
over Hobart on Saturday, 
Notre Dame (6-0) must 
regroup and focus their 
attention nn Monday 
afternoon's game against the 
Butler Bulldogs at 3:00 at 
Moose Krause Stadium. 
Because Butler lacrosse is 
in their initial season as a 
varsity sport, their team is 
made up of junior college 
players and freshman. Coach 
Kevin Corrigan describes the 
Bulldogs as it "good, unsettled 
team that will play 
aggressively." 
After coming off such an 
emotional high with their 
comeback victory. the Irish 
will have to guard against an 
emotional letdown that could 
result from playing an 
opponent that the Irish should 
have no problem with. 
"The team realizes what is 
at stake here, so I don't think we'll have any problem with a letdown. We only play 14 games a year, so therefore it isn't difficult to get the players focused on what we .. have to get done," explain~:Jd 
Corrigan. · 

Optional destination unknown for SMC students Only l ticket for $2 2 tickets for $3 3 tickets for $5 
Limited T-Shirts Available on sale in each hall contact Cathleen Ebner if you have any questions #5089 
CASUAL DRESS NO DATE REQUIRED FREE ADMISSION ALL ARE WELCOME 
...... 






match, the Irish were corning played singles well against off their fourth straight shutout, them." [Fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Upset 
all three doubles matches for ~~p~la~y~e~rs~a~re;;s~ol~id;·~b~u~t~w;e~r~e~a~lly~~s~o~m~e;t~h;in~g~a~b;o~u~t~it;.'~'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
the fifth consecutive match. 
in·~:~:~~fees,s~~~e :~~j~ ~~~! THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
that they really count," said · Tholen. 
"Earlier in the season Wendy 
DlS.tt•ngulS·hed Scholar Lectur.e Se"es
[Crabtree] and I weren't used to 1 1 1 t,; playing with each other and sometimes that showed during 
~~~~::~u:~i~n;ia~~t~:g~~~~~ Pro~essor Stephan Stolz 
and it's really showing." J.' Going into the Clemson 
Department ofMathematics 
GREEI<S &.CLUBS 
''How Curved Is The Universe?'' 
RAISE A COOL 
Tuesday, March 30
$1()()() 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
8:00 p.lll.
PLUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. Galvin Science Auditorium 
And a FREE 
IGWOCOOLER 
if you qualify. Call ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND 
1-80().932-0528, Ext. 65 
page 12 The Observer 
Men's volleyball shines at MIVA's 
By KEVIN DOLAN well in game two, but still lost match, with assistant coach Sports Writer to a revitalized Park squad, 8-Dan Kavanaugh donning a jer­
15. In the third game, played in sey to play setter, moving Won 
A question from the national rally-scoring, the Irish took an Suh to the back row, a change club-level volleyball community: early lead and pulled off the that paid big dividends for the Is Notre Dame really that good? upset, winning 15-12. Irish. 
An answer from the Irish: "They stepped up in game "Dan really came through in Yes. indeed. two," said Ceponis, "but we that match," said Ceponis, "and 
Fueled by an all-tournament were just playing some great Won was great on defense, performance by Brian Ceponis ball." digging balls all over the place." and by some of their strongest Said Casas, "We were serving The Irish then played Illinois, team play all year, the Irish really well in that match, which one of four ranked teams that broke on to the national scene took them out of their offense a they would defeat over the by finishing fifth at the Mid­lot of the time, and we passed weekend. In what Coach Slosar western Intercollegiate Volley­really well too." would call "the best match I've ball Association tournament Riding a wave of emotion, the seen them play all season," the this weekend. Irish continued their winning Irish conquered the Illini 15-8, 
According to Ceponis, a leap ways in the final match of the 10-15 and 15-8, combining 
into the top 25 rankings for first pool, crushing Bowling passing and defense to pull off club teams would be long over­Green 15-10, 15-6 to sweep yet another upset. due. their pool for the first time in With a trip to the tourney 
"We've beaten seven top 25 "as long as I can remember," semi-finals on the line, the Irish teams this year... we should according to Casas. faced Park once again. The first 
definitely be in the top 25. We The Irish did not fare quite as encounter ended with the Irish deserve it." well in the second pool, finish­on top, and game one of the Coach Jen Slosar, while not ing last out of four teams. They rematch was no different, as 
totally concerned about the first lost to Iowa State 15-8, 12-the Irish dominated, 15-8. 
rankings, agreed that the Irish 15 and 10-15, and dropped "Brian Ceponis put on a 
performance was good for their next match to Western blocking clinic in that game," 
recognition purposes. Michigan 15-6, 12-15, 13-15. said Slosar, crediting the cap­
''I'm more concerned about "That wasn't really us," tain's 7 blocks, as well as strong how we end our season than by quipped outside "hitter Pat Mad­team defense. how we're ranked now," said den. "I think it was our evil Unfortunately, Park's skill Slosar, "but it was a good tour­twins, or robots... it wasn't us." would win the day, as a tired nament for us to do well in." Kidding aside, Ceponis and Irish team fell in the next two 
Because of a late travel start, Casas cited two foes that have games, 5-15 and 5-15. 
the Irish arrived at Tri-State as haunted the Irish all season; 
their first opponent, Grand passing and bickering. "They ( Park ) are very pa­Valley, was warming up. "We overpassed way too tient and very good," said 
However, the Irish took the much in both of those games," Slosar. "We knew we'd have to floor immediately and, as out­said Casas. Ceponis added, play well to beat them." side hitter Leo Casas said, "We "Any team play was just gone in Ceponis and Casas echoed a 
pretty much schooled them," the second pool. We played as good feeling about the remain­sweeping the match 15-7. 15-8. individuals, there was a lot of der of the season. The Irish then faced their first biekering ... it was a bad scene." 
test of the day in Park College, That performance put the "We have a lot better outlook 
a top-ten team. Much to Park's Irish in a position to face More­on the season now," said Casas. 
surprise, the Irish came out head State in the first match of Said Ceponis, with an eye on 
with a vengeance, taking a 5-0 the round of 32. and the Irish the postseason,"We saw our 
lead en route to winning game regrouped to hammer More­potential and made a name for 
head 15-6, 15-7. ourselves. Everyone knows
one, 15-12. The Irish eontinued to play Changes were made in that what we can do now." 
Monday, March 29, 1993 
-
/ 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Sophomore Matt Strottman sets for the Notre Dame men's volleyball team. Strottman has overcome a knee injury to become one of the team's most consistent spikers. 

a 9-0 thumping of Miami (Ohio) Clemson, who had entered continued from page 16 on Friday at the Eck Tennis the match with the Irish after Irish, extending her dual match Pavilion. upsets of 12th-ranked BYU and 
win streak to fourteen matches The Irish sngles players took 14th-ranked Miami (Florida), with a solid 6-3, 6-4 win over control of the match early, dropped to 9-4 on the season, Jan Barrett. losing only one set on the way while the Irish climbed to 12-6. 
With the score 3-3 after sin-to a 6-0 lead. Though the polls may gles, the Irish needed to win Following the lead of the consider the Irish victory an two of three doubles matches to singles matches, all the doubles upset, Tholen is not so sure the secure the upset. Doubles had squads cruised in straight sets. Irish should be considered the caused problems for Notre "I was a little afraid we'd be underdog. Dame in some of its early sea-looking ahead to the Clemson "These aren't surprise wins son matches against ranked match against Miami," said for us," said Tholen. "We have teams, but were no trouble Louderback, "but we really took three freshmen in our top six against the Tigers. The Irish, care of it." and they're doing a great jub. sparked by a quick 6-2, 6-3 win "Miami is not a bad We knew we were good all by the number three team, won team-they're top four singles along, but we're finally doing 

STUDENTS 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP SPRING PASSES NOW AVAILABLE VALID THROUGH GRADUATION $50.00 
CALL 631-6425 FOR MORE INFORMATION 

Monday, March 29, 1993 The Observer page 13 
.-­

Irish baseball sweeps Xavier to open conference play 
By JENNY MARTEN enth as Xavier coach John Associate Sports Editor Morrey was ejected for com­plaining about the strike zone, 
CINCINNATI -The Notre but strong pitching and defense Dame baseball team (7-6) from both teams brought the opened conference play with a game into the ninth with the 4-game sweep of Xavier (2-17). score still 5-4. 
"After an adverse weekend On the mound, Irish reliever 
(against Kentucky), we handled AI Walania held the Xavier this weekend very well," said batters to one hit while Muske­Irish head coach Pat Murphy. teer reliever Jim Elliot held "We handled the bat well. We Notre Dame hitless in the got some great freshman per­seventh and eighth innings. formances ... some of the pitch­Defensively, Haas ended the 
ers are getting on track." seventh inning with a knock­
Everyone did their part in the down of a tough grounder at sweep. Hitters connected solidly first and Walania ended the with the ball, the pitchers kept eighth by snagging a scorching their composure on the mound line drive over the mound to and the fielding was almost start a double-play. 
error-free. Marty DeGraff (1-1). who 
In the final game of the series replaced started Danapilis, got on Sunday, the Irish fell behind the win for the Irish while Jim early, but recovered in the late Burnor (0-4) took the loss. innings to win a 8-4 nail-biter. Notre Dame started Sunday 
Notre Dame broke the game on the a winning note with a 
open in the ninth inning. Greg 14-4 victory over the Cayson sent a triple bounding Musketeers, thanks to a hitting off the centerfield wall and an parade in the late innings of the error brought him home. doubleheader's first game. Freshman Mark Mapes drove a In the fifth, Hartwell started two-run single down the third­things out with a single to right. 
on four hits while striking out "I've been waiting to have a Xavier scored a run in thebase line for the final runs. Failla followed with a single to five and walking none in five­good weekend. It makes me feel second, but DeSensi's home runThe Irish surged ahead 2-0 in center. Eric Danapalis pounded plus innings on the mound, took good to know I can contribute," in the fourth restored the four­the first inning on Paul Failla's a run-scoring double to center. 
the win for the Irish. Craig said DeSensi about his hitting run Irish lead. 
2-run homer, but the Muske­Xavier tried to get out of the in­Allen, who replaced Price in the over the weekend. Notre Dame scored in the lastteers tied it up in the second on ning by loading the bases with sixth, grabbed the save with a Irish hitters shelled Xavier's four innings of the game.
two RBI singles. The third in­an intentional walk to Topham, no-hit, no-run performance. Brian Hindersman and Eric Topham homered and Richardsning brought a lead change as but Xavier's T.R. O'Brien hit In the Irish's 6-0 win in the Dettinger with a season-high six added an RBI single in theXavier's John Dressman sent a Craig DeSensi with a pitch and first game of the series, pitching homeruns in the 18-5 Irish win sixth.
two-run longball over the left­Robbie Kent laid down a was the key with Chris in Saturday's second game. In the seventh, Topham hit his field wall. squeeze bunt to drive in a run Michalak (4-0) tossing a com­Freshman Topham led the second homer of the gameMatt Haas began the Irish apiece. Haas cleared the bases plete-game shutout while barrage with two round-trip­while Hartwell connected on a
comeback with a one-out with a single to increase the 
Xavier starter Tony Pezzica was pers while Robbie Kent, three-run dinger to increase the homerun in the fifth to bring gap to 7-0. 
tagged for six runs and eight Hartwell, Danapalis and De­Irish lead to 11-1.
the score to 4-3. ''I'm feeling really good and 
hits in five innings on the Sensi each sent one over the The eighth inning brought
Notre Dame scored in the really confident," said Dana­mound. wall. four more runs as Haas andsixth as freshman power-hitter palis. "Right now, I'm as strong Michalak spread five hits over Seven Irish batters notched Richards both hit run-scoringRyan Topham nailed a two-run mentally as I've ever been in my seven innings and didn't allow a multiple hits, including Topham doubles. Danapalis' three-runhomerun to make the score 5-4. life." 
runner past first base until the (3 for 6), Danapalis (3 for 6), homer in the ninth closed outTopham was happy with his Xavier finally got on the fifth inning. Hartwell (2 for 5), DeSensi (3 the Irish scoring at 18-5.
hitting over the weekend. board with a run in the fifth. 
DeSensi provided the offen­for 4), and Mark Mapes (2 for David Sinnes took the win, al­"I was pleased, very pleased. Keith Oerther homered off Irish sive punch for the Irish, going 2). lowing one run and three hits in I'm seeing the ball well," said starter Tom Price (1-1). Notre 2-for-2 with a double, a home­Notre Dame got off to a quick six innings. 
Topham. "I've been working Dame quickly erased it with run and three runs batted in. start with Kent hitting a 2-runwith Coach Tuck and shortening four runs in the sixth off a pair Rowan Richards also went 2-homer and Danapalis and The Irish's next game comesup my swing and trying to hit of two-run roundtrippers by for-2 with two RBI's in the Topham hitting back-to-hack on Wednesday against Indianaline drives." Danapalis and DeSensi. 
contest. doubles. University in Bloomington. 
Things got heated in the sev-Price, who gave up four runs 


lJpcoming Events 
An International Conferenc "ECONOMIC SANCTIONS AND INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS" 

Friday-Sunday, April 2, 3 & 4, 1993 

More than a dozen speakers will address the use and effects of sanctions on Yugoslavia, Iraq, Haiti and South Africa, including: 
James Ngobi, Secretary of the United Nations Sanctions Committee Kimberly Ann .Elliott, Institute for International Economics, coauthor of Economic Sanctions Reconsidered 
David Cortright, President, Fourth Freedom Forum; Visiting Faculty Fellow, University of Notre Dame Susan Woodward, The Brookings Institution, Yugoslavian Affairs Gary Milhollin, Executive Director, The Wisconsin Project on Proliferation Jennifer Davis, Executive Director, American Committee on Africa 
Registration and more information: Peace Institute; First Floor Hesburgh Center 
Cosponsored by The Fourth Freedom Forum 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL
IllIll~N~!~/~O~~~?~A:: 
.-----·-··--· -··-·-------. ··------··-·· -. ________ j 
blame Brian Reese for next week's trip to New Orleans.
Kelly 
Reese tried to ensure that the Tar Heels would be back in
continued from page 16 
class on Monday by missing a by default in the less than dunk that would have won the challenging East Region, can't game at the end of regulation. 



Class Dates March 30, April 1, 6, 13 6:00 -9:00 pm Rolfs Aquatic Center Plus a 1 day excursion 
Register at RecSports 
$15.00 entry fee :all Recsports for more info 631-6100 

Happy Birthday Suzanne Bailey! 
We love you! We'll miss you! 
Blame it on his teammates, who picked up the slack in overtime, leading the Tar Heels back to the Final Four, where they are frequent visitors, but rarely the honored guests. 
Kansas is another Final Four punching bag. The Jayhawks have been to four of the last eight of these yearly get to­gethers, winning only in 1988. 
Roy Williams, a student of North Carolina coach Dean Smith is bringing Kansas to its second final four in three years. He defeated Smith and the Tar Heels in the 1991 semifinals before falling to Duke in the finals. 
For some, just reaching the Final Four is a victory in itself. It will have to be for the Jay­hawks, who are overmatched against North Carolina. 
But speculation means very little in this tournament, where underdogs thrive. 
Everything will be decided 
next Monday when the Big 
Dance holds its Big Event in the 
Big Easy. 
Save the last dance for Ken­
tucky. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 4:45. 7:15, 9:45 
BORN YESTERDAY lPG) 5:00. 7:30, 10:00 
POINT OF No RETURN (R) 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 


page 14 The Observer Monday, March 29, 1993 
Powerful LSU defeats men's tennis 
Irish win just two matches against sixth-ranked Tigers 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team, playing its eighth match against a top-ten team this season, fell to the sixth-ranked LSU Tigers 5-2 in Baton Rouge, La. 
Coming in, the 16th­ranked Irish thought they would have a chance to pull the upset if they could 
...._ capture the Ron Rosas 
doubles point to begin the match. However, the Tigers stormed out of the blocks, winning all three dou­bles matches and setting the tone for the match. 
Notre Dame's tenth-ranked tandem of Will Forsyth and Chuck Coleman were first upset in a wild affair by LSU's Michael Wesbrooks and Juha Pesola, 9-8 (9-7), in the top doubles match. In two-doubles, Mark Schmidt and Todd Wilson dropped a 8-5 decision to the team of Tamer El Sawy and 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bookstore Basketball XXII prelims will begin 
Wednesday, March 31. Schedules are available in the 
S.U.B. office in LaFortune. Let the games begin ... 
The NO/SMC Equestrian Club will hold a meeting 
about the Culver show on Monday, March 29, at &:30 pm, 222 Hesburgh Library. I you have questions, call Megan at 634-2784. If you are showing at Culver, call Katie at 284-5520. 

Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on salt. 
t/aAmerican Heart 
~Association Vvf'RE FIGHTING F~ 'vOJRUFE 
'Fares are roundtrip from Chicago. Taxes 
included and restrictions apply. Call 
worldwide destinations, both one wey 
roundtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. De.Ybom St., 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 

Alex Guevara, and in the third match seniors Ron Rosas and Chris Wojtalik fell to Ryan Ideta and Chad Dudley by the same score. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, LSU's dominance continued into the singles matches. At the Irish's win at the Blue-Gray Classic two weeks ago, they were continually able to over­come the loss of the doubles point because of st-rong singles play. However, this was not the case against the Tigers, who boast a dePp lineup featuring three ranked players. 
At one-singles, Forsyth fell to Egypt's Tamer El Sawy, cur­rently the fourth-ranked singles player in the nation, by a 6-1, 6-0 score. El Sawy has been nearly unbeatable this year, going 27-3 with all three losses coming to players ranked among the top five. 
One bright spot for the Irish was Coleman's 6-2, 7-6 (7-3) upset win over Finland's Juha Pesola, who was ranked 32nd in the country. The loss drops Pesola's record to 11-2, and should push the 51st-ranked Coleman up in the next ITA rankings. 
The Irish got another win from Rosas at four-singles, who beat Guevara 7-5, 6-2, but dropped the remaining singles matches. 
Schmidt lost to the 90th­ranked Wesbrooks, 6-3, 6-0, and freshman Mike Sprouse fell to Ideta, 6-2, 6-1, but it took Dudley two tiebreakers to dis­pose of Wilson. The 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (9-7) marathon at five-sin­gles characterizerl the match for the Irish, who gave it their all but just could not help suc­cumbing to a superior team on their home court. 
The loss drops the Irish to 13­8, and will most likely be the last time the Irish will face off against a ranked team before the NCAA Championships in May. Until then the Irish will be tackling some of the Midwest's best teams. 
With solid performances they should be able to secure an automatic bid to the NCAAs, which is afforded to the best team in the Midwest. 

JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
Don't miss your chance to get two senior portrait sittings for the price of one! 
You can get your senior portrait taken now and pay only $5.00+tax. If you aren't satisfied, you can have it retaken again in the fall for only $5.00 more! Compare this to paying $1 0.00 in the fall for only one sitting with no re-takes. Sittings are on a walk-in basis in l 08 Lafortune all week, March 29-April 2, from 9am to 5pm. Or if you prefer, you can make an appointment at Lafortune Information Desk. 
This is the only opportunity for getting two chances at your senior portrait. And as a reminder, you must have your portrait taken with this company in order to be in the yearbook. 


--------------------------------~--------~ 
-..
-

Today 
Monday, March 29, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SO?!? WE ALREADY LIVG IN A SOC.J£1)' SO IN~LLECfvALL'/
ACCORDINii. To THIS ARTIC.LE, 
A NEW, VotC.E PRo6RAMtl\JNcn 
NtJIVlB 'Tl\AT WE NEE:P J'v
VCR R£1VlOTE HAS BfcN 
5PoRf5 ANNOUNCERS 'TO 611/E 
F[JR THE.

iNVENTED BE.CAUS£ i OUT US PLA'I-Bi-PLA'i OF 5011\E:THJNoo 
FOR "2 ...

of 10 A/VIERICAtJS ARE TOO 
WE. CAN ":£E Po~ ouRSELVES.
DUMB TO PR06RAM WITH A CONVENTIONAL RE.MO~. 

~----------------~ 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

-

-
Author of: 
April 2-3
There Are No Children Here 
s·tepan Center 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Friday 7:30 Saturday !1:30am & 7:30pm 
...and don't forget that AnTostal is coming up. This Celebration of Spring kicks off April 20 and sadly ends April 24. Happens only once a year! 


28 Considers 50 Inquires 
(bllajiateJazzEestival.
'!lAY: Alex:Kotlcw.itz 
.. 
Sports

page 16 Monday, March 29, 1993 
Irish lacrosse handles Hobart in a thriller 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
In possibly the most exciting lacrosse game to ever be played in Notre Dame history. the 16th-ranked Irish battled back from a five goal deficit to defeat Division Ill powerhouse Hobart College 15-14 in overtime. 
As a result of their courageou's comeback. the Irish vaulted over Georgetown to claim the 14th slot in this week's United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association's coaches' poll. This is the highest Notre Dame has ever been ranked. 
The Irish had to overcome an apathetic start as well as an extremely quick and aggressive Statesman team in order to be in position to tie the game in the 4th quarter and force overtime. 
The hero of the game was junior attacker Hobbie Snyder, who seored the tying goal with eight seeonds remaining in the game, and then put the winner home with 59 seconds left in sudden death overtime. Both goals came off feeds from fellow junior attaeker Randy Colley. It was ironic that Snyder, who had four gaols and an assist. scored the crunch-time goals because he hails from Geneva. N.Y., living only minutes from the Hobart campus. 
"It was kind of weird seoring the tying and winning goals against Hobart because they were the one team on the schedule that I really didn't want to play because I grew up rooting for them and I knew most of the guys on the team." 
Snyder explained. 
As for the last hectic minutes of the fourth quarter and overtime, "I was nervous yet confident we'd get the goals. Each time Randy did a great job of drawing the defenders and then finding me wide open on the backside so I could score," said Snyder. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan was impressed with how the team reacted to the pressure of the moment and not allowing themselves to be beaten. "Not for one second did the team get down or demoralized. It was always what we were going to do to win. Our concentration was tremendous. we always focused on the positive, always looking ahead." he explained. 
But from the way the Irish began the game, it looked as though there would be no way that they would be in any position to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. 
After sophomore defenseman Mike Iorio took the ball the length of the field and scored the first goal of the game for the Irish, llobart quickly regained their composure and looked much like a team that was going to teach the #16 Irish a painful lesson. 
Hobart responded by rattling off four unanswered goals, and after junior midfielder Willie Sutton scored at the 
6:25 mark, proceeded to score three more times before the quarter ended, establishing a 7-3 lead. Hobart was clearly the more aggressive team in the game's first quarter. witnessed by the fact that they gobbled up 27 ground 
Women's tennis upsets Clemson 
By AlAN AKEY Sports Writer 
Has the 23rd-ranked Notre Dame women's tennis tnam been watching the NCAA basketball tournament? More specifically, have the Irish been watching Kentucky mercilessly thrash every opponent in its path? 
They might well have been. because in the last two weeks. Notre Dame's level of play has certainly been Wildcatesque. In six matches the Irish have claimed six wins, but more impressive is the level of dominance that they have displayed in achieving the victories. 
During one four-match stretch, Notre Dame won 35 consecutive singles and doubles matches, shutting out Drake. Michigan. Kansas State, and most recently Miami (Ohio). On Sunday, though the Irish finally gave up three of six singles matehes, they again swept the doubles to claim a 6-3 llpset win OVIH 19th-ranked Clemson, 
-
completing another spotless weekend in their seven-match homestand. 
"I don't think we necessarily played well against Clemson," said head coach Jay Louder­back, "hut we competed extremely well. Several of the matches went to three sets. but we battled the whole way. We had talked about that before the match-that we didn't want to get out­
.. 
competed on our home floor-and we certainly didn't." 
Lisa Tholen. at number four singles, dropped her first set 4-6 to the Tigers' Shannon King. but recovered to claim the second 7-5. surviving a King match point. In the third set, she trailed 0­3 and 3-5 and overcame several match points before finally succumbing 6-7 (5-7) after four hours of play. 
"I really don't know what happened at the end," said Tholen. "Even when I was down early, I never felt like I was out of the match. I guess I just sort of lost it at the end, though." 
The other two Irish netters who faced three-set 
MEN'S TENNIS No. 6 LSU coasted to a 5-2 win over Notre Dame Sunday in Baton Rouge. 
see page 14 .......~·~ .....,.~ ..~··



Goalie Ryan Jewell (40) stifled Hobart's offense in Saturday's win. 
balls to the Irish's 12. 
"They were a very quick and athletic team that came out with an aggressive game-plan. They were ready for us, and did a great job executing," Corrigan said. "I don't know what it was with us, whether we were overconfident or a little flat at the beginning." 
The Irish looked better in the second period behind Snyder's two goals and junior midfielder Billy Ahmuty's two assists. They controlled the ball better and began to match Hobart's aggressiveness with strong play of their 
see IRISH/page 11 

matches were able to pull out victories over their Clemson opponents. At number one singles freshman Wendy Crabtree split her first two matches, but survived with a 7-5 third set win. Fellow freshman Sherri Vitale also split her opening matches. but won 6-3 in the third at number two singles. 
Holyn Lord completed a freshman sweep by the 
see UPSET/page 12 


The Observer/Sean Farnan Freshman Holyn Lord won a key match in Sunday's upset of No. 19 Clemson. 
BASEBALL The Notre Dame baseqall team opened conference play with a three-game sweep of Xavier. 
see page 13 


The road to the Final In the final minutes. Four doesn't seem Temple coach John quite so long anymore Chaney apparently for the four teams uttered an expletive packing their bags for or two-which is New Orleans. unheard of in the 
But the road that lies c o a c h i n g ahead seems to stretch profession-and the endlessly and only one · ~ officials did their duty. team will have the JASON KELLY Chaney stood stamina to finish the Match Point motionless on the journey. sidelines as Jalen Hose 
Michigan and North sank Temple's hopes along Carolina, two Final Four with three of four free throws. veterans, stumbled into the His stoic posture and piercing field Sunday, but not without stare said more about his giving some other teams a feelings than words ever chance to dance on Bourbon could. Street. But Chaney's Owls may be 
The Wolverines went down the lucky ones. Facing Ken­to the wire in three of their tucky is not much of a prize four games against such and that's what awaits assorted speed bumps as Michigan in its first real George Washington and challenge of the tournament in Temple. Saturday's national semifinal. 
Michigan missed free throw Kentucky could beat any of after free throw in the final Michigan's West Region oppo­minutes against George Wash-nents with Hodrick Rhodes tied ington, but the Colonials behind its baek. couldn't capitalize and Michi-The Wildcats have looked gan escaped. like an NBA team, eoasting 
It was the same story in Sun-through the field without a day's regional final. although serious threat. With Jamal Temple didn't give the game Mashburn and Travis Ford away like George Washington hitting three point shots from did, they had it taken away. various time zones, Kentucky 
The Owls would have been quickly disposed of Wake cutting down the nets in Forest and Florida State, two Seattle if the officials hadn't teams thought to have the chosen the West Hegional final tools to knock off the vaunted as the time to enforce the new Wildcats. rule on coaches using North Carolina, champions profanity. see KELLY/page 13 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
The Irish turned in their 
best performance of the 
season at this weekend's 
MIVA tournament. 
see page 12 






