The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 88 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Flynn/Wellman and Reinke/Dickey in run-off 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Election process questioned
News Editor 

Student Bod 

by candidates' campaign practices
The tickets of Frank 

Flynn/Nikki Wellman and David 
By MONICA VANT 
Heinke/Lara Dickey earned f\'.!i.!!l!l!'![l!!~!,'!~ E<Jit¢t"iri"Chlet
spots in a Wednesday run-off \: NEWS ANALYSIS for Notre Dame student body 
,A ca~ual observer of Monday Wellman and David
president and vice president 
night'~ emergency StudentSe-Reinkeltara Dickey tickets ad·
after no ticket captured a 
nate meeting at Notre Dame vanced to Wednesday's run-off, 
majority in Monday's general 
Witnesset:l a series of highly po-while the ticket in the hot seat 
election. 
litic~l maneuvering .in a quest at the Senate meeting,
Flynn/Wellman received 35.1 

t~t~d~teruline ifthe election pro-Gallo/Browntng, took third
percent (1,451 votes) of the 
cess had been jeopardized by place.
electorate, while Reinke/Dickey 
election1day campaigning by And so as not to forget that
received 32.5 percent (1 ,343)­
and the endorsement of the election. • The Joseph Karian/Sam oj}e o{ sac tickets running for politics is poll tics -even at third-place ticket of Stephanie Campaigning for the run-off Thomas ticket received 0.87 student body presidentand vice Notre Dame -Gallo!Brow:ning Gallo and Chris Browning. began today at 12:01 a.m., and percent (36 votes). presidwnt. ·•··· ·.·.··. . . ··.··· left the race endorsing the 
Election results showed 4,129 ends tomorrow morning at "We really worked hard and ..·.. B'Qt aft,lilr tiptoeing around the ticket. who defended. their i:l.C* 
12:01 a.m., Judicial Council that's why we're here," said po~~ib.le c~mpaigti yiolation by tions throughout the almost
students cast ballots Monday. 
Earlier in the evening, the President Pete Castelli. Students Wellman. The candidates said the Step}lante..· G11Uo/Cbds · two-hour S.enate inquiry: election committee addressed can vote Wednesday in their they plan to focus on the dorms B:roWQ;ing ti(!k(;Jt •and pointing Reinke/Dickey. 
dorms from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. where they did worse than ex­fi'ftgers.at.t)leElec.tion Commit-. .The i$sue debated by theSe*reports of election day cam­and from 5 to 7 p.m. pected. tee for l~aying candi<lates up-nate was. campaigning bypaigning by Gallo/Browning. 
Of the other four tickets: Flynn pointed to the success c~ear al)out tlle eampatgnin.g. Gallo/Browning outside the
The committee determined ­• Gallo/Browning took 23.1 of his and Wellman's door-to­sehednl~. the. SeMte deemed South Dining Hall Monday
and the Student Senate later aflirmed -that miscommuni­percent (954 votes) of the bal­door campaign, noting that they nn on~ gu~ty of violatiQns, let afterno.Qn. The question was 
lots; didn't get an endorsement from the Mun(j.ay~s results..stanl.i, and wheth~r J:iallo/Browning vio·
cation about the official end of • The Chris Murphy/Emily The Observer or Scholastic. cj.t~d Ptis~o:mmu.nicttt~Qri ljy la.ted a ca.mpaig11 rule by dis·campaigning was to blame, and Bloss ticket received 6.8 per­The Reinke/Dickey ticket said .Studemt Goyernmt'lnt as tbt:~ tributing flyers on election diiy.
that no election violation had cent (280 votes); they felt good about the results. Qrily culprit in the .ITI.atter, . Butthe real problem was that been committed. 
• The Tom Kovats!Mike Con­"We believe in the things we're ·:.~en tbe Yote.s were. finally nQne of the· candidates nor the
The Senate later voted to 

nelly ticket won 1.6 percent (65 tota:llf!l.i, 
the Fr~k: Flynii/Ni~i.
uphold the results of Monday's 
see ELECTION/page 4 It•}i:~;~~;···•·.· see ANALYSIS/page 4 
votes); 

Saint Mary's holds forum to discuss campus issues 
By AMY JOHNSON & and student body president­
halls and 80 clubs. Specific LAURA FERGUSON elect. ideas for its use include BOG The lack of SMC coverage is conferences, alumnae activities 
News Writers 

due to the small number of SMC and speakers, and social activi­writers and the fact that many ties such as improvements forConcerned students and ad­of them are inexperienced, said Dalloway's and a satellite dishministrators gathered at Carroll some students. Anna Tabor, for Haggar College Center. 
Auditorium last night to discuss Saint Mary's editor of the "We are not expecting to re­the future of Saint Mary's Col­Observer, suggested including a ceive this full amount that welege in a campus open forum. 

weekly or biweekly four page are proposing but this figureIssues of Notre Dame/Saint 
pull-out in The Observer that will give us something to workMary's relations. security and would exclusively cover events with," said Wilkinson. 
the possible increase in the 

on the SMC campus. Security problems and im­student activity fee were dis­Reactions to this suggestion provements were also ad­cussed in detail. 
were overwhelmingly positive, dressed by the student body,One issue addressed was the especially regarding the single
and Tabor stressed that the

relationship between Saint phone line for emergencies,
Observer staff is working on

Mary's and Notre Dame stu­escorts and information. Ac­
improving SMC coverage. The Observer/T.J. Harris
dents. SMC coverage in the cording to Richard Chlebek, di­
The staging of the Keenan Karen Fordham, president of the Residence Hall Association, and
Observer was a major point. rector of security, separate
Review was also discussed. MaryBeth Wilkinson, student body president-elect, participate in the
According to Renee Young, a numbers for emergency and 
Saint Mary's students expressed Second Annual College Forum at Saint Mary's. 
SMC senior. there needs to be information/escorts will hope­
disgust at the large amount of own campus," said Melissa per student. This would allow fully be established this fall. 
better and more accurate cov­
Saint Mary's "bashing" that Whelan. 
erage of SMC events. 

took place at the Keenan Many students expressed
"There has been a lack of 
Review, which ironically took concern over the proposed in­
c.ommunication and respect" 

place on the SMC campus. crease in the student activity
said MaryBeth Wilkinson, vice 

"We should not allow the fee. If the proposal is accepted
president of academic affairs 
putting down of SMC on our the fee will go from $20 to $75 

r-~~-----=--------------------------------------------


Hipp, Beeler scholarships endowed 
By DANA ANDERSON preciate as the portfolio appre­the Meghan Beeler Memorial 
News Writer ciates. The department of fi­Scholarship. This endowment 
nancial aid uses the interest is being built up by the Beeler 
Through donations to from these funds to grant family and friends. The Beeler 
memorial funds. family, scholarships to undergradu­family and the department of 
friends, and students have ates, said Russo. financial aid have not yet de­
continued to keep alive the By closely working with cided how the money will be 
memory of Notre Dame swim­donors, the department of fi­administered in scholarship 
mers Colleen llipp and Mar­nancial aid establishes criteria form, according to Russo. 
gan~t "Meghan" Beeler, whose for selecting recipients of The other endowment, the 
lives were taken in a bus acci­scholarships, according to Hipp-Beeler Memorial Scholar­
dent last year. Russo. Some standard re­ship, has been organized 
Two scholarship endow­quirements established with largely by Student Government 
ments have been created from each scholarship include that a through fundraisers and dona­
the funds. These endowments recipient be in good academic tions. According to Russo, the 
differ from annual gifts to be standing. Beeler-Hipp Memorial Scholar­
spent that are given to Notre According to Russo, the de­ship has received donations of 
Dame. An endowment is a partment also works with spe­$32,000 as of Feb. 5. 
permanent fund of at least cial conditions on scholarship 
$25,000 used for the same monies that a donor requests. Parameters have not yet 
purpose year after year, ac­"We always make sure the been finalized for this scholar­
cording to Joe Russo, director donor's best interest is being ship either. However, Russo 
of financial aid. served along with the Univer­said, "We hope to have 
The University invests this sity's best interest," he said. selected the first student to 
money in a stock portfolio, en­One endowment in memory receive this scholarship this 
abling the endowment to ap-of the swimmers is entitled see FUNDS/page 4 

student government to increase The card access system fell their operating activities budget under some criticism because of from $60,000 to $200,000 per its inconvenience for students year. using the facilities in LeMans 
This budget is divided among the four classes, five residence see SMC I page 4 
McKenna to receive 1993 Horatio Alger Award 
By MICHELE TERRY said. News Writer McKenna said his experience as a student at Notre Dame and 
Andrew McKenna, chairman his later involvement with the of the Notre Dame Board of University helped him to reach Trustees, has been chosen to his present position. "Notre receive a 1993 Horatio Alger Dame was the perfect learning Award. ground for things I've done 
McKenna expressed feelings later in life," he said. of surprise and humility upon The Alger Awards are receiving the award saying,"I awarded annually to individuals feel humble and undeserving, who are "living proof that the yet honored" about being American dream is possible for placed in the same category as those who work hard, perse­Jack Kemp and Oprah Winfrey, vere, and live by the highest other award recipients. ethical standards." 
"I am not only honored to be McKenna, president and inducted with the new recipi­chief executive officer of ents but to join so many who Schwarz Paper Co., is one of are already members of the Al­eleven chosen to receive the ger Society, including my pre­award, which will be presented decessor on Notre Dame's at a dinner in Washington, D.C. board, Don Keough," McKenna on April 16. 
- --~ ~---­-~---------------------­ 
page 2  Tuesday, February 9, 1993  
INSIDE COLUMN  

No business 
like snow 


business 
Since my decision to go • to school at Saint Mary's, I have experienced more than I had planned. Granted my travels and studies during my participation on Saint Mary's Semester Around 
the World gave me the Anne Heroman 
most wide and shocking
experience of culture Advertising
Representative
anyone can imagine.
However, another shock I -------­
experienced was the initial move to South Bend, 
Indiana. The heavy shock did not come from the 
usual first year of college experience. It was the 
move to the North and the experiences that gave 
me. 
Now many of you might not think much of this. But there are still some that know exactly what I am talking about. Simply, I have lived all my life, until two and a half years ago, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The way of life up here is definitely a drastic change from what I have been accustom to. 
For example, the weather was the largest shock of college life. For that matter, it still is a huge shock! I had never seen more than a light dusting of snow. The first snow fall I experienced was in early December, and I had been anxiously awaiting it since late September. It began to flurry late the night before. After much explanation by my roommate, who happens to be from Sheboygan, Wisconsin, I managed to grasp the idea of flurries. She finally was able to ealm me down and get me to sleep. Much to her dismay I awoke at 4 a.m. yelling that it had snowed, for her to wake up, and get dressed to go outside to play in it. She told me to go back to bed, for it would be there for days. She was right. 
The same day, there was the traumatic lesson of non-packing snow. When I finally convinced someone to share in the snow experience with me, they explained that this snow could not build a snowman beeause it was not wet enough. How ridiculous. I had known all my life that one builds snowmen from snow, and snow is snow isn't it? WHONG. I guess South end rarely gets "snowmen" snow. To this day I have not been able to build a snowman. The usual cause of this dilemma is the laek of help. I guess many people here do not find it as new and exciting as I do. However, I have build a snow turtle due to the dryness of the snow and made several snow angels. 
This reminds me of some advice a fellow Southerner gave me. "Just pretend like you know what you are doing. If you fall because o the snow, make it look like you meant to and start making a snow angel." 
From what I understand, he has used it on several occasions. I am lucky to say I have not experienced that yet. 
Besides the entire snow bit, I have had the opportunity to experience other ice and water related activities. I have been ice skating once and that is about all I need. As recently as this weekend I have walked out on a frozen lake. It was just long enough to take a picture and get the hell off. 
I still am very happy to have this opportunity to be here and experience these things. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
Production Viewpoint Jeanne Blasi Jeanne Blasi Roloando de Aguiar Accent Sports Don Modica Rich Kurz Graphics News Chris Mullins Becky Barnes Business Susan Marx Systems Emily Hage Harry Zembillas John Connorton 


TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  20  02  
Atlanta  67  44  
68  43  
66  45  
32  28  
32  26  
70  40  
33  27  
39  33  
50  39  
52  48  

63 56 59 41 26 21 23 12 

ii 
63 29 44 30 46 43 44 30
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

61 37 PrBSSUI'B 64 44 33 31 
50 41 D.C. 49 26 

L &S1 ITIJ 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 

NATIONAL 
Meese suspected of cover-up 
• WASHINGTON 
Honald Reagan's chief of staff and secretary of state had been prepared to testify that his administration misstated facts about the Iran arms sales to protect the president from im­peachment, the Iran-Con­tra prosecutors said 


Monday. If Caspar Weinberger had gone to trial, former White House chief of staff Donald Regan was prepared to testify that he knew it was untrue when Meese stated in a Nov. 24, 1986, White House meeting that the president hadn't known about the Hawk missile shipment, Walsh said in an interim report to Congress. 
College job search becomes limited 
• NEW YORK -In this year's recruiting season for college graduates, nurses are hot but aerospace engi­neers are not. Companies hope to hire more college graduates this year than in 1992, but only a few fields ~re .e~pected to benefit. Health care is one industry that IS hmng. A focus on the environment also has created openings for engineers, geologists, biologists, and chemists. But other industries are cutting jobs just as 

OF INTEREST 

aggressively. Military cutbacks and hardships in the commercial airline industry have virtually shut down the market for new aerospace engineers. Jobs in finance and b~nking, except for technical and baek-office jobs, are still .hard to come by. Worsening matters. colleges are turnmg out more graduates to compete for fewer jobs. A 
U.S. Labor Department economist said that from now until the year 2005, the number of college graduates will outpace the number of available jobs by 20 percent each year. 
Experts unwilling to say drought over 
• LOS ANGELES -Another powerful storm brought torrents of rain, flooding, mud slides and a huge sinkhole Monday to soggy Southern California. Sodden hillsides collapsed on roadways as the· storm came ashore Sunday. Debris closed portions of Pacific Coast Highway and Interstate 5. Underground garages were flooded with up to 5 feet of water, and a sinkhole 30-feet wide and 15­feet deep opened up in the middle of an avenue in West Hollywood. But the latest deluge doesn't mean Califor­nia's six-year drought is over. While the Los Angeles De­partment of Water and Power this month announced the drought's end in the city, the California Drought Informa­tion Center said Monday a water shortage lingers in other areas of the state.. Despite the deepest Sierra snowpack in a decade-175 percent of average-state water authorities were being cautious because major reservoirs were still 3 million to 4 million acre-feet short of capacity. 
• 
SUB Open House will be today from 1-2 p.m. in the Student Union Board, 2nd floor of LaFortune. Come see what SUB is all about and pick up an application for a '93-'94 position in student government. 

• 
"Culture in America" fireside chats will start this week. Come get "fired up" as we talk with Sankofa, the physically challenged, and blue collar workers. The fire­side chats will be held on the 2nd floor of LaFortune from noon to 1 p.m., Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday of this week. They are free and lunch will be provided. 

• 
Cuernavaca Program info meeting will be from noon t~ 1 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Joel Mugge, Director of the Center for Global Education at Augsburg College, will be on campus to talk about the semester­long Cuernavaca programs. The programs include 


MARKET lJPnATF 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 8 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 303,931,300 -0.53 to 247.07 S&P COMPOSITE 

-1.08 to 447.85 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -4.60 to 3,437.54
UNCHANGED 
575 

GOLD 
+ $0.20 to $328.90 
SILVER 
+ $0.007 to $3.667 

language training, living with a family in the countryside, and traveling in Central America. If you can't make the meeting, call Patty at 631-5318 to make an appointment. 
• 
Sankofa, an African-American Band, will offer an African music workshop at 7 p.m. this Wednesday in the LaFortune ballroom. They will perform traditional and contemporary African-American music. The workshop is cosponsored by the African-American Student Alliance and the Multicultural Executive Council. 

• 
Architecture lecture, "New Discoveries in the Restorations on the Acropolis," scheduled for Wednesday Feb. 10, has been postponed until sometime in March. 

• 
Medallion Hunt Clue Number 1: Welcome to Knott's Medallion Hunt. It will take you here and there. Be ready to bundle up, for you'll have to brave the opfln air! 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1861: The Congress of the Confederate States of America elected Jefferson Davis president. 

• 
In 1893: What's been described as the world's first striptease took place at the Moulin Rouge, during a party thrown by Parisian students. 

• 
In 1943: The World War II battle of Guadalcanal ended with a U.S. victory over Japanese forces. 

• 
In 1950: Sen. Joseph McCarthy charged the State Department was riddled with Communists. 

• 
In 1964: An estimated 73 million viewers watched the Beatles make their first live American television appearance, on "The Ed Sullivan Show." 

• 
In 1992: The government of Algeria declared a state of emergency to quell Muslim fundamentalist unrest. 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Back popu emand... 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m.~ 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 


Price of Large1 ToJ?ping Pizza is the t1me you call! 
® 

Free Delivery 




271~1177 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
Tuesday, February 9, 1993 
Bianco will speak today on domestic violence 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Assistant News Editor 
A proposal to change the ex­isting parietal policy at Saint Mary's is on the agenda for dis­cussion at the meeting of the college's Senior Officers today. 
Proposed by the Residence Hall Association (RHA), the new policy would eliminate the cur­rent regulation requiring male guests to leave picture identifi­cation at the front desks of residence halls. 
Residents would still be re­quired to escort their guests at all times and sign them in, but not out, on horne football game weekends and nights of a dance. The front desks of the residence halls would remain and exterior doors would still remain locked. 
The proposal was originally submitted to the Senior Officers before finals week last semester. The Officers asked RHA to conduct a survey in order to measure student sup­port for such a proposal, said Karen Fordham, president of RHA. 
The results of the survey, to which 700 students responded 


Campus Bible Fellowship
at St. Mary's College 356 Madeleva Hall Tuesdays 7:00 p.m. 
COME JOIN US! 
For more information call: 
Lea Anne  Christy  
284-S243  284-4160  
Steve &Charlene  Brent  
272-8890  634-3562  


The Observer page~ 
SMC discusses parietal PC?Iicy 
(RHA ran out of ballots), over­whelmingly supported the change which would not re­quire male guests to leave IDs at the front desk any longer. 
•94. 
34 percent of the re­spondents agreed that male guests should no longer leave identification at the front desk. 

•57.12 
percent of those sur­veyed said that male guests sbould still be escorted in the residence halls. 

•25.29 
percent of students did not want sign-in logs, but RHA said the survey question was worded incorrectly. The survey did not clarify that sign-in logs would only be used during horne football weekends and dances. 


Holy Cross Hall Director and moderator of RHA Patty Warfield said that the benefits of the proposal far outweigh the negative aspects. 
"This proposal puts respon­sibility back where it belongs and that is with the students, in terms of honoring their own personal integrity and watching out for each other in ensuring their community is a safe place to live," said Warfield. 
She also expressed strong feelings about keeping the cur­rent escort policy. "It's not a moral issue at all, it's a security issue," Warfield said. 
Her only concern is that stu­dents will not understand that the responsibility is with the students to make this policy work. 
"I want to make sure they understand that in Holy Cross at least there will be section meetings that I will personally attend to have questions an­swered and make certain that everyone understands the pol­icy," she said. 
Security is the main concern in addressing the changes. 
"Residents need to take re­sponsibility for themselves and their guests," according to Sh­erri Craher, director of Resi­dence Life. 
Fordham said that if a deci­sion is made to change the pol­icy, she sees no reason why the change would not be imple­mented this year. Warfield said that if accepted, the new policy will most likely take force this year at a natural break,such as when students return from spring break. 
"The proposal is on the agenda for (today's) meeting, but when it will be discussed and when the decision is made depends on the urgency of the other issues on the agenda," said Brassil. 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1993 
or verbalized at the Jan. 18 meeting for interested candi­
Analysis 
dates. The recollections of the "tickets
continued from page 1 
of the meeting further complicated the problem.
elections officials could remem­
Three of the five tickets ­
ber if the pre-campaign in­
Reinke/Dickey, Galla/Browning
structions specifically stated 
and Joseph Karian/Sam Thomas
that campaigning on election -could not recall being told
day was prohibited. Tradition­that the campaign period ended
ally, the campaign period for 
at midnight Sunday. 
student body elections at Notre 
But Flynn said he remem­Dame has been exactly one bered hearing it "distinctly,"week, with no campaigning on 
and Emily Bloss said her ticket'sthe election Monday. 
campaign manager"We thought that we had 
remembered hearing it.
communicated to them the be­"We found that there was
ginning and ending dates (of 
sufficient evidence of ambiguity
campaigning)," said Andrea 
in the ending time of the elec­Sullivan, election committee co­
tion period," said Judicial
chairwoman. But neither Sulli­
Council President Pete Castelli.
van nor co-Chairman Andrew 
As a result, the Elections
Alfers could prove that the in­
Committee recommended thatstructions were put in writing 
Galla/Browning said the Reinke/Dickey ticket is a fresh

Election 
voice for student government. "We just feel that their type of
continued from page 1 
philosophy is along the same 
pushing for," Reinke said. 
line as ours," said Browning.
"Those who are committed to 
"We would have liked to have 
both long and short-term 
done better," sad Karian. But 
(goals) will hopefully respond to "we realize that we were in the 
what we have to say." 
also-run category." 
be a factor in selecting a 
recipient."


Funds 
Besides the two scholarship endowments here, the Hipp
continued from page 1 
family has established a schol­spring. Every undergraduate 
arship in Colleen's memory in will be eligible for this St. Louis. These funds were scholarship but there will not 
given by family and friends of be application forms for this. 
the Hipp family. This scholar­Students need not be an 
ship has been set up to help athlete either to receive this. 
students with the cost of tuition In addition. financial need will 
at Hipp's former high school. 
Happy 21st MOH! Put that tonoue to oood use tonioht! 

Love Ya, 
NIC 
• 
UNIVERSITY 
LEARN HOW THE WORLD WORKS 
Globallntemshlps and Language/Liberal Arts Programs 
• 
• 
•
• 
a representaHve will be on campus: 
~ 
February II, 1993 • 11 :00 a.m. -I:00 p.m.
0 
O'Hara Lounge
S< 
LaFortune Student Center 
OL---~~~~~~~~~~~

BEIJING • SYDNEY • MOSCOW •
• 
Namr. _________________________________________ 
Add~---------------------------------------­
City/St.lle/Zip:---------------------------------­
Phone:( )_______Unlvenlly: -------------t Pall 0 Sprlnc 0 Summer 0 19__ 
lnlemlhlp Progron11 ~uage ProgiOfTW Surrvner Progron11 Clondon Cl Grenoble 0 london CParll 0 Oxford 0 Madrid CMoocow 0 Halo 0 PadcNo Dsyctney 0 Madrid 0 Paris OWostwnglon. oc 0Podollo OSyctney0BeljlnQ 0 Oxford 0 Moscow 
retum lo: 0 Niamey 0 Beijing Bolton Unlve111ty, Dlvlllon ol International Pr~rom1 0.Vashlngton. DC 232 lay ltole llood, loa Q, llollon, MA 02216 or coD (61 n 353-9188 


Monday's election be nullified. 
The recommendation was appealed by the Reinke/Dickey ticket, which sent the matter to the Senate. Although acknowl­edging that Galla/Browning benefited by the extra day of campaigning, Reinke asked the Senate to allow the election to proceed as planned. 
"The election committee made a mistake, inadvertently," he said. But cancelling Monday's election and asking students to vote again would be a "grave disservice to the student body" and could "ruin whatever credibility Student Government has." 
After lengthy debate, the Se­nate voted in favor of Reinke's appeal. 
The incident soon faded into obscurity as Flynn/Wellman and Reinke/Dickey hurriedly planned Tuesday's campaigning while Galla/Browning quietly exited the race. 
Correction 
In an article in last Thursday's Observer, student body presidential candidate Michael Connelly was misquoted during the presidential candidates' debate. Connelly said "The University is here for the students, not the other way around." The Observer regrets the error. 
Loaded Weaopon I PG13 5:15. 7:30, 10:00 Alive R 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 The Vanishing R 4:45. 7:15. 9:45 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

and McCandless. It was suggested that students have universal access to all build­ings. Also the possibility of ex­panding the card access system to Holy Cross, Regina and parts of the tunnels is being explored, but no firm decisions have been made. 
To supplement the card ac­cess system the possibility of replacing traditional parietals with the honor code was dis­cussed. A survey given to the student body recently showed that 95 percent of the students were in favor of the change. 
Students also expressed con­cern about the vagueness of the rape and sexual assault poli­cies. Administrators clarified that although they encourage prosecution, only those cases 
Visa/MC accepted delivery to NO/SMC/off campus Balloons/Cards too! 
reported and investigated are included in the statistics. 
Other issues also raised in the forum included improvements in the computer lab, a prospective lesbian policy, and a smoking policy. Students suggested updating the Macin­tosh computer lab and perhaps investing in a second laser printer. 
William Hickey, president of SMC, said that there is a writ­ten policy regarding lesbians. Although it has been available in the Student Affairs Office for some time now, it can imme­diately be handed over to the student government. 
Student government and res­ident life are also conducting surveys on whether or not stu­dents feel Saint Mary's should be a completely smoke-free campus. 

College Students! 
A real estate career could propel you into a rewarding future! If you plan to live in the Michiana area after graduation, please join us! 
Tuesday, February, 16 Saint Mary's College Haggar College Center, Room 304 
Call Sheila Bardwell to register and receive your free Real Estate Career Kit 
271--4171 

Hosted by: Cressy and Everett/ Better Homes and Gardens 


Don't be caught empty handed! Valentines Day is Sunday, February 14th 
Pre-Order by Friday, February_ 5th for lower prices 
at 

I 










IRISH GARDENS 
All Delivery Orders Must Be In By Saturday 
Please make all orders in advance for fastest service 
Open Sunday, February 14th 12:30-5:30 
GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT Friday, February 19-Sunday, February 21 
7:00 p.m. Noon 
A time of silence and renection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Sttldents. 
Place: Crowe House, on the shore of lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre l:untc. 
Deadline: Reservations for the twelve available places will be accepted until Wednesday, February 17. 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences (d 1-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost: $15.00 fur Uu: cost of meals and snacks. 



Business 
Tuesday, February 9, 1993 page 5 

BUSINESS BRIEFS Students assist with tax returns 
Cotton ~inni'lfl computerized 

By COLLEEN KNIGHT said. Assistance will be "Students get accounting ex­
•WASHI GTO -The computer age has dawned on the 

News Writer available until April 15. perience before they enter thecotton field. The Agriculture Department says one ofits research According to Milani, the pro­work world, applying theirengineers has developed the world's only fully computerized Students from Notre Dame gram is beneficial because it knowledge and helping people cotton ginning system, and it may someday boost returns to and St. Mary's volunteering for reaches many different seg­at the same time," Murphy said. farmers by $7 to $23 a bale. Current ginning methods give all the 22nd annual Tax Assistance ments of the community. "It In addition to helping localcotton the same amount of cleaning, regardless of how much Program will get hands-on ex­cuts across the whole spec­residents, the program volun­actual trash, such as seeds, is in it. Many cottons don't need to perience filing tax returns while trum," he explained. "We help teers are also available to helpgo through each step. and reducing the steps can cut energy giving something back to the taxpayers ranging in age from students and faculty members.costs and reduce fiber damage. 
Michiana community, according 17 to 92 years old. It's a real Those needing assistance to Ken Milani, professor of eye opener to students." should go to the Center for So­

IRS won't make court ruling retroactive 

accountancy and program cial Concerns on Wednesday
•wASHINGTON-The Internal Revenue Service said Monday coordinator. After spending three weeks afternoons between 2:30 and 5that it will not apply a new Supreme Court ruling to taxpayers The program will provide free in training classes, student vol­p.m., Milani said. who claimed a deduction for business use of their homes before assistance for local taxpayers unteers are now ready to work Last year, volunteers filed1992. The court, in a Jan. 12 decision, generally upheld the IRS with annual incomes of $25,000 5 hours a week at the local more than 2000 tax returns for

position for determining whether a person's home is the 

or less. Seventy accounting and centers. While CPA's and ac­local residents. principal place of business. In making that determination, the finance students who have counting faculty handle more Funds and supplies for thecourt held, a taxpayer must consider the relative importance of taken at least one tax course complicated returns, student program are provided by Notreactivities conducted at each business location and the amount of will work with accounting volunteers handle many returns Dame's College of Businesstime spent at each. The law allows a deduction for certain faculty members and local CPA's individually, according to senior Administration, the Internalexpenses incurred in using a portion of a home exclusively and at 10 sites set up in the South Mike Murphy, Director of Public Revenue Service, and theregularly as a person's principal place ofbusiness. Bend-Mishawaka area, Milani Relations. Department of Revenue. 

States wa9i of welfare proposal 

NIH begins review of drug companies 
NEW YORK (AP)  -The head  page letter to Dr. Healy last  drug at a highly inflated cost,"  
of the National Institutes of  week complaining that Sandoz  Wyden said.  
Health is launching a review of  would be free to determine the  Government money is an in­ 
all marketing agreements be­ price of any drugs resulting  ducement for researchers to  
tween drug companies and re­ from the collaboration even  develop life-saving drugs. By  
search labs that receive federal  though they were derived from  some estimates, up to half the  
funding, officials said Monday.  government-subsidized  re­ most  promising  AIDS  and  
The move is the latest back­ search.  cancer drugs are under devel­ 
lash over the price of drugs. In  opment in government or uni­ 
this case, lawmakers are con­ "What is most troubling about  versity labs.  
ABA urges court approval to  cerned about how much drug companies charge for  this deal is the apparent fact that the government has raised  Wyden spokesman Steve Jenning said the congressman  
medicines  that  taxpayers  no  objection  to  the  ar­ was "gratified that the NIH is  
freeze assets of law firms  helped pay for developing.  rangement," he said, noting that Scripps was not required to  doing the right thing. There should be some federal over­ 
BOSTON (AP)  - Court ap­ The  group  plans  to  seek  NIH Director Dr. Bernadine Healy called for the review but  seek government approval of the Sandoz relationship.  sight in the pricing of drugs in which the taxpayer has a signif­ 
proval should be required be­fore federal banking regulators  comment on its recommenda­tions and work on formal pro­ had no further details, said spokeswoman Johanna  "The government underwrites millions of dollars in drug  icant research and development investment."  
may freeze the assets of law firms accused of misconduct in  posals that may be submitted to the ABA at its annual conven­ Schneider from NIH headquar­ters in Bethesda, Md.  development, then the manufacturer steps into com­ Sandoz, the U.S. arm of San­doz Ltd. of Basel, Switzerland, 
their work for banks or savings  tion in August.  The move comes following  mercialize the development  has noted that the money it is  
and loans, an American Bar Association group said Monday.  Federal banking and thrift regulators may act administra­ publicity surrounding an al­liance announced in December  once the government has proven its profit potential, and  investing in Scripps beginning in 1997 will go toward basic re­ 
tively, without need for court  between Sandoz Pharmaceuti­ the taxpaying consumer gets  search and that there is no  
Responding to last year's $41 million settlement paid by a  approval, to impose sanctions and freeze assets of law firms  cals Corp. and the Scripps Re­search Institute of La Jolla, Ca.  bumped twice in the form of paying for a highly subsidized  guarantee any products would result.  
New York law firm over its rep­ accused of being partly respon­ Under their collaboration, 
resentation of the defunct Lin­coln Savings and Loan Associa­tion, the ABA working group  sible for a financial institution's losses.  Sandoz will provide Scripps with $300 million over 10 years in exchange for first rights to  Study urges unions to  
recommended several changes in the way lawyers may be sanctioned.  The Office of Thrift Supervi­sion demanded $275 million last March from the New York  Scripps' medical discoveries. Scripps receives more than 7 5  recruit more females  
firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman,  percent  - or  roughly  $90  
"The question is, will aggres­sive action by a regulator chill the kind of representation, vig­orous repn~sentation, that has bnen a tradition of the bar," said John Curtin of Boston. a formPr ABA president and leader of the working group. "It's a question of balance."  Hays & Handler, and froze the firm's assets pending settlement of the case. The firm was accused of misleading federal regulators about Lincoln's real estate in­vestments. The following week Kaye, Scholer settled the case by agreeing to pay $41 million.  million ­of its research money from the government. With 650 Ph.D.s and medical doctors, Scripps claims to be the nation's largest independent, non-profit biomedical research center. The Scripps-Sandoz agree­ment prompted Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., to write a five- WASHINGTON (AP) ­Labor unions need to organize female workers, who now are under represented, underpaid, and may soon be a majority of the workers in America, according to a study released on Monday. "Union elections held today  nated employment centers such as the automobile and steel industries are shrinking, while female workers are in­creasing in the fast-growing service and retail industries. Still, the study shows only 14 percent of women workers are  
Coal union claims boss intimidation  with a majority of women or 'minority' workers are won more often than those in tradi­ unionized, roughly the same percentage as 30 years ago. But because male membership  
WASIIINGTON (APJ-Peabody Ilolding Co. officials say the company has brought in additional security guards at strikebound mines to protect property, not to harass pickets as the United Mine Workers claim. But UMW spokesman Jim Grossfeld said Sunday that in­creased security at mines in Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky and West Virginia is merely an at­tempt to intimidate 7,500 strik­ing union members. "We have several mines and preparation plants and natu­rally these are million-dollar investments and we have a ju­dicial responsibility to make sure they're protected," said Terry Whitt, a spokesman for Peabody subsidiary Eastern Associated Coal Corp. Whitt said the additional guards from Virginia-based Vance Security were instructed only to "observe and document" problems on the picket line.  Reports of guards harassing pickets were "totally untrue," he said. "They are not there to cause any problems with our people on the picket line," Whitt said. The UMW has been on a se­lective strike against St. Louis­based Peabody, the nation's largest coal producer, for nearly a week after a contract involving more than 60,000 UMW miners and 150,000 re­tirees expired. Grossfeld said no contract talks were scheduled between the union and the Bituminous Coal Operators Association ne­gotiating team. The association represents 12 of the nation's largest coal producers. Thomas Hoffman, a spokesman for the association's negotiating team, did not return messages left at his home Sunday. The strike has been violence­free thus far, but UMW interna­ tiona! board member Howard Green said the security force hired by Peabody is trying to stir trouble. "This weekend, they kept moving in on different Peabody properties ... trying to use their intimidating means and meth­ods to try to provoke problems," Green said. He works out of District 17. based in Charleston. "They've been basically trying to harass our people with cameras and spotlights during the night, things like that," Green said. He said miners on picket lines have avoided confrontations. State police have reported no problems. "I think that the purpose is to intimidate by their very pres­ence," Grossfeld said. "I don't think there's any question about that. That's part of the reason why we stress discipline among our own pickets."  1  tionally male-or white-domi· nated workplaces," the study said. 'Thus attention to organizing and mobilizing women mem­hers will be critical to the fu­ture" of the U.S. labor move­ment, concluded the report written for the International Labour Organization, a U.N.­sponsored agency headquar­tered in Geneva, Switzerland. The report said there were 48.9 million women employees in 1990, representing 47 per­cent the U.S. workforce. The study, "Women Workers, Unions and Industrial Sectors in North America," projects that by the end of the decade, women will represent a majority of the workforce. Susan Eaton, author of the report, explained in an inter­view that men are leaving the workforce earlier than they used to, in part because of lay­offs and early retirements. Also, she added, male-domi­ has slipped from 35 percent to just above 20 percent, women's percentage of membership has risen by default to 37 percent. Despite the growing impor­tance of women in the labor movement, the report contends that relatively few unions have undertaken new organization campaigns to recruit women. "There is a tremendous op­portunity for unions to or­ganize women and for women to get the kind of benefits and protections that unions can offer," Ms. Eaton said. "Mter more than 20 years of active workplace organizing and protest, North American women, especially nonunion workers, are still highly disad­vantaged in terms of low pay, job segregation, workplace ha· rassment (and other issues of special concern to women} and inequitable family responsibili­ties," the study said.  

--~-----­


-------------------------------, 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, February 6, 1993 
The Observer 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahneile Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. it does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to ail members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to ail readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Despite shortcomings, 

Can Powlus be a four-year starter? 

ND is still a great place 

Dear Editor: three years of bench experience dividends. "The next Joe Namath." from our other quarterbaeks llis competition eonsists of
Dear Editor: I realize, after reading letters 

That's what many are calling outweigh the talent and Kevin McDougal and Paul
Last weekend I had the great to the editor in The Observer of Bon Powlus. Back in early potential of a phenom like Failla. They are two talented,

pleasure to 11y out to Indiana January 22, 1993, that Notre 

September, well before many Powlus? but back-up, quarterbacksand visit Notre Damn/St. Mary's Dame is not the "utopia" of students had even heard of him, Steve Fisher, Michigan's head seeking their own ehance atfor the fifth time (as an alum­Thomas More, but it is, without we predicted that he would be basketball coach, certainly leading the team to a rathernus of LaSalle University, I had a doubt, the premier Catholic the starting quarterback for didn't think so. And look where elusive national championship.
the misfortune to witness the university in America and as a Notre Dame in 1993. Now that starting three freshmen from They're good, but Powlus isExplorer's loss to the Irish on Catholic educator this makes he has arrived, there are many the beginning got him -The better.

Saturday night at the JACC). me proud. 

who doubt our bold propheey. NCAA Finals.
While on campus, I had the Many times my students ask We have written this letter to Others were positive the ex­Notre Dame has the opportu­opportunity to see and converse me which college they should explain our position and perience and big-game mental­nity to start a talent like Powluswith many of my former consider attending and my first convert any disbelievers. ity of the Buffalo Bills would for FOUB years. Hiding thestudents and to meet and spend response is N.D. if I know they 

Although nobody doubts deny the more talented but ex­coattails of his talent, tlw na­time with their friends from can make the grade. 
Powlus' talent, we offer a quick tremely young Cowboys a Super tional championship will comeNotre Dame and St. Mary's. I tell them it is a campus full reminder of just how great he Bowl victory. Wrong again. back to Notre Dame, right
Spending time with these of spirit, community, caring, is. His coaeh (USA Today's Prep Skepties also believe that where it belongs. Begardless ofyoung men and women was an and love. After my recent visit Coach of the Year) says he is Holtz will not start a freshman his first year's success, startinguplifting nxperience. The stu­there, I know that I can say this ready for the pros right now. at quarterbaek, beeause he will Powlus as a freshman will pro­dents and staff at Notre Dame with confidence and assured­Riek Mirer's high sehool statis­not have the time to learn the vide him with invaluable expe­make you feel like you arn one ness. 

tics, though very impressive, system. Fortunately, the ND rience for the future, and it
of their extm1ded family. So, keep the tradition of simply pale in comparison to offense under Holtz is perspec­cannot be denied. 

Attending the Vigil Mass at excellence alive and know that the most sought after recruit in tively a rather uncomplicatedthe basiliea was a moving event even with its few shorteomings, 

a decade. one. A run-orientated game The day Bon Powlus eommit­eouplnd with the devout Notre Dame is the plaee to be! 
plan, which requires the quar­ted to Notre Dame, shouts of joy 
attitude and participation of the Donald Casolaro 

Powlus constitutes the con­terback (protected by an always and anticipation echoed the
students present. Everyonn on Dean of Students 

summate quarterback: a big, strong ofl'ensive line) to hand off planet . Anybody who has fol­
eampus is willing to help you in Bishop Eustace strong runner (105 carries for and throw to receivers running lowed him knows he is the

any manner they can and this Prep School 

1700 yds. and 45 TD's), a quick basic pass patterns. tieket to a national title. The ar­
eare and eoncPrn really left me Pennsauken, N.J. 

release often compared to Dan gument over who should start
with a wonderful feeling. Jan.30,1993 


DOONESBURY 
Ya.J'Re UXJKJNG I BAm IT INTD 8F!LWNI85 FOR. ::arl& 6RA55? R:JR. 5&VE3RI3t-Y /U.AIPSff./T/arT5. I 7HOlEHT 'IW TH&MARIJUANA H!i15/JI.XK 7H8 Qf.JITA WHilE 51/?&ffFFt3Cl5 OfCHfMO'TliEFAPY. 
8ACX, t:a?/EL.l. 

\d'itfij~~
\ 

Marino's, and a rifle for an arm Anyone who doubts this need the 1993 season at quart1~rbaek (445/791 for 7,352 yds. and 62 only to look back at "The Drive" is moot; in training camp, he TD's). lie even lead his high against Penn State to see a will prove to everyone that he school team to the state eham­perfect example of a scoring was not recruited to sit on the pionship in talent-rieh Penn­drive dictated by running, bench. Not even for a single sylvania while being voted the screens to the fullback, and game. Powlus would start right high school player of the year simple pass patterns. away at any university in the by Super Prep, Gatorade Circle country and, luekily, he chose of Champions, Football News, We must remember that this one. USA Today, and Parade Powlus is not walking into camp With sueh amazing size, intel­Magazine. Yes, Virginia, there is an ignorant man. He was ligenee, and explosive talent a Powlus. taught (and is probably still starting at quarterback, we 
And yes, he is coming here. being taught) by one of the best know Powlus is the harbinger of high school coaches in the National Championships to 
Despite Powlus' overwhelm­country. To familiarize himself come. il~g credentials, we find that with the collegiate level of foot­very few people believe he will ball, he ean be taught the basics John L Pestka even be given the chance to of the offense for Northwestern. Michael Byrnes start next year, due to his inex­Ease him through the game Alumni Hall perience at the collegiate level. and, starting with Michigan, he Feb. 7,1993 Are we to believe, then, that will start paying unbelievable 
&ve,rzytf/&&1< I MAl<& A 8/G 
BATCH tf/ITH 8&77Y CROCI<ER 
8RIJWN18 MIX. BUTLASTtaf&K 
MY 5UPPU&R GOT8/ET&I?. I THOll3HT MAY8/3 YOU MIGHT 
KNOW st::m¥rt:CW/3
~ £l,;:t3. '­
~'U 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
UM... t-f/&1.-t.., ZONK, TR.Y t£T956b. 7057AY 
HaUA80UT W17HM8. f)(JNCAN HIN&S r THISI5 OR.. Pltlh8U!?'P 1MfORTANT. 
'We live. We die. And death not ends it.' 
Jim Morrison 
Beware the blues ofFelmwry. Submit: 
QUOTE..,., P.O. Box Q, NIJ, IN 46556 

1 
I 
I





Accent l 
Tuesday, February 9, 1993 page 7 

'Humanitas' showcases the cream of Arts and Letters essay writing 
By MARA DIVIS disappeared. She stressed that the board Saint Mary's Accent Editor hopes to interest as many freshmen and sophomores as possible in order to keep 
Imagine a literary journal which "Humanitas" alive. includes writings on sociology, philosophy and government, in addition to English. 
After a recess of several years, the College of Arts and Letters is 'It's important to have ressurecting its own journal of critical 
student essays as samples.
academic writing, according to graduate student Donelle Ruwe. It's more accessible.' 
"IIumanitas, a Journal of the College of Arts and Letters." is intended to showcase the best undergraduate writing in the different disciplines of the -Danelle Ruwe College. The emphasis is not on creative writing. but rather on essays on varying suhjm:t matter. Huwe said. 
"It's an unusual thing for undergrads to have," she said. "It's different from the Juggler !Notre Dame's annual "It's difficult to maintain an literary journal!. which is creative writ­undergraduate journal like this," she 
ing. We're not publishing poems or short said. "It's important to have people from stories. We're doing essays." different classes." The board will award a $200 prize for 
Among the goals of "Humanitas" is to the best sample of writing submitted this serve as a model of good undergraduate semester and three $50 honorable writing. Huwe said. Some students find it work in the College of Arts and Letters, junior Chuck Young, an editorial board mention awards, Ruwe said. In addition, difficult to emulate the often obtuse Ruwe added. member. the winners of the McPartlin and Snite work of experts and professors in their "They haven't had an academic "We've got a lot of people on the prizes for the best in undergraduate fields: this journal will contain only the publication for undergraduates," she editorial board, but we're still looking writing will be recognized. 
best of student writing, according to said. When asked why she thinks for more people ... we want a variety of Huwe. "Humanitas" is being revived. Ruwe said majors represented," he said. "Anyone Students interested in submitting work 
"I've been approached by a few that "maybe it's partly that the who wants to get involved can, as long from classes this year are encouraged to professors who want a copy to use for University is concerned with maintaining as they're committed to it." turn in two copies of the essay without samples in writing classes." she said. academic standards for under­the student's name, in addition to a "It's important to have student essays as graduates." "Humanitas" started several years ago cover letter with the student's name, samples. It's more accessible." "Humanitas" will publish once a as a student project, but lost support and year in school, and the department from 
semester, and will include the best of the interest when its staff of mostly upper­which the essay comes. 
The University previously published a previous semester's writing. The edito­classmen graduated, Ruwe said. Few Essays will be received until March 1, scholarly journal. but did not have a rial board wants to include as many freshmen and sophomores were Young said. Students should submit their journal focused solely on undergraduate majors as possible in each issue, said involved, and therefore the staff soon essays to the English department. 
Hiisker Dii's release sacrifices 
neither energy nor emotion 
songs perfect. Indeed, the song

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
is a prototype of many of the

Music Critic 
Everything Falls Apart And More 

songs which are considered Iliisker Dii came screaming 
Husker Oil's best. out of Minneapolis sometime in 
Husker Do 

If "Everything Falls Apart" the early eighties, when most of 
isn't poppy enough, then the us were listening to After the 
cover of Donovan's "Sunshine
**** 
Superman," rendered with

Fire and Nena. and made an 
(out of five)indelible impression on pop 
surprising respect toward the music. 
writer, should convince even
bum, along with several ex­

Today, the threesome is duly the Husker Dii skeptic of the
tremely rare tracks from early band's talent. 

noted as the band largely re­Husker Dii singles, in a packagesponsible for the popular suc­Several more songs on the
titled Everything Falls Apart cess of Nirvana (and all of their and MorP. is another victory for disc stand out as classics of the ilk). Their punk-pop fusi1J.J, the small tabel. era, including "Target," which which sacrificed neither energy The band packed about a gi­could very well be a punk an­nor emotion, laid much of the them. With his succinct chorus, 
gawatt of energy into Every­

groundwork for today's Mould sardonically encourages,
thing Falls Apart's 12 songs {on

pop/rock sound. then unmercifully exposes those 
a 45 r.p.m. 12-inch). Tracks 

Most argue that the band's individuals who put away a fad
like "Punch Drunk" (0:30) and trademark sound, Bob Mould's "Bricklayer" (0:33) are com­as soon as anyone else begins gets his kick in on Everything screeching Flying V in front of a posed of pure self-destructive to enjoy it. The version of "Statues" in­Falls Apart and More. His sin­driving rhythm section "Don't participate. be lethar­cluded here is twice as long gle contribution, "Let's Go Die,"
energy. Mould screams his ob­(drummer/vocalist Grant Hart servations over the music, gic/ You're a hypocrite, you're (8:41) as the original edit. and is strong enough to make one and bassist Greg Norton). carne which sounds like the noise the target." is by far the longest Husker Dii wonder why he never wrote 


into its own with Zen Arcade, an epic double album released in 1984. 
But though the long out-of­print Everything Falls Apart, lliisker Di.i's first studio album. is largely a lesson in hardcorc history. the album gives the listener a sneak peek at the band's potential to make ma­jestic sounds. 
Hhino's re-release of this al­made by Husker Oil's eventual implosion-fast, loud and messy. 
But other songs, like the title track. show a hint of the great­ness Husker Dii could achieve. Mould experiments with the same guitar techniques that would make Zen Arcade a milestone, and sings about the themes-loneliness and de­spair-that made the band's 
After three successful albums without Hart and Norton (two as a solo artist. one as the frontman for Sugar), Mould is now considered the heart of what was Hiisker Oil. But dur­ing the band's glory days, Mould and Hart split the writ­ing and singing duties evenly. On Everything Falls Apart. Mould wrote and sings most of the songs. But Hart's three con­tributions all make an impact. 

song that includes vocals. In­deed, it bears similarities to "Reoccurring (sic) Dreams," the 14-minute instrumental that closes Zen Arcade. Hart sings about his disdain for rela­tionships ("Are you different, are you new?/ No, you're just a statue) over Mould's layered. distorted guitar and a droning Norton bass line. 
Norton, long the forgotten member of Husker Dii, even 
another song for the band. 
By and large, Everything Falls Apart and More is a stunning retrospective of Hiisker Du's early musings. "Do You Remember?" is a translation of the band's Norwegian moniker, and is the track that closes the album. And we must pay attention to the band's demand to listen and understand the music. 

page 8 The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1993 
Lindros found innocent of charges he spit on woman 
OSHAWA. Ottawa (APl -Eric you didn't commit and gaining last Nov. 29. Toronto. ing hockey," Piazza said. 
Undros was found innocent to­that much media attention I "The dispute could have been Lindros said he wasn't going In trial testimony ending to try to avoid similar situa­Thursday, witnesses offered
day of charges he spit beer on a don't think it does anybody resolved that night without wpm an. 
much good," Lindros said. "I criminal charges," Morgan said. tions. sharply conflicting versions of Lindros, a 19-year-old who know I never did it and I had "Unfortunately, the positions of ''I'm a kid and I like to do the events. Nunney said Lindros both parties hardened." things that kids do," he said. repeatedly pushed her toward
plays for the Philadelphia Fly­people to back me up. It felt 

ers, shook hands with his good." Nunney said the incident oc­Flyers spokesman Mark Pi­the edge of the dance floor and Morgan suggested Lindros curred after she refused to azza said in Philadelphia that emptied a bottle of beer on her
lawyer after Justice Rhys Mor­head and spat beer in her face

gan issued the acquittal. The drop countercharges against make room for the NHL player the team was relieved. 
on a packed nightclub dance "We're happy that it's over when she tried to stop him. Her
judge said defense evidence Lynn Nunney, a 24-year-old 

floor at Koo Koo Bananas in and done with and he can get testimony was corroborated by
raised reasonable doubt. factory worker. who alleged he "Heing accused of something spat and poured beer on her Whitby, about 36 miles east of back and concentrate on play-her sister and a friend. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class1fieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
I 
Student Painters is interested in NEED 2 GA's tor Kentucky TYPING 256-6657 I never meant to do you harm THE FOREIGNER hiring highly motivated students to Will pay top $$$ x3329 Or cause the removal of your right 
NOTICES 

manage their own bus. we offer $ $ $ $ $ arm. It's about some foreign guy. 
management training, credit I need 3 Kentucky tickets!!! RIDE NEEDED (And yet, for a moment, think how Just shut up and buy the tickets. backing, and a full support staff Please let me buy yours! WILL PAY Life would sound Without that darn TYPING 287-4082 earning pot. $8,000. join the most call Moira 4-3885 to/from Castle Point right arm hanging around ... THE FOREIGNERUsed Texts Cheap Pandora's 
successful painting co. in Indiana (I tutor for 1 hr) For your body would be less colder 
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS tues or thursdays If it didn't have to heat your LOVE STINKS!! Smith. MARY X2862 early p.m. shoulder; It's time for the 2nd annual: 2342 NO Ave & Howard 

accdg to your schedule And you'd never have to eat VALENTINE'S DAY REQUESTDissertations. Theses. 
Are you BRADLEY/Peoria BOUND Need 1 or 2 GA/Stud Eileen 4-2385 broccoli If you lost your LIST FROM HELL! I Term Papers 
2/12? Kentucky Tix. $$$$$$ "utensil hand," you see; And you (and we need your help) Will you take me with you? $$! 2711514or 1-8575 couldn't work, raking leaves Or We are looking for the best anti-lovE 
Word Works Typing Service 

277-7406 Kath x2904 whatever you do in the Florida songs around. Examples: I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for Keys; "Love Stinks" -J. Geils Band 
Kentucky -Brian x1 069 @$@$@$@$@$@$@ And on days that are super-cold or "U Stink but I Luv You" -Billy and hot You could park in the handicap the Boingers Help make a difference-tutor I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR If you are going to Daytona spot.) "I Don't Believe in Love" ­
50,000,000 

adults trying to get their GEDs, 1 KENTUCKY GAME! or the East Coast of Florida So, in true Mantey Python style + Queensryche
SPRING BREAK '93 BLOWOUT 

morning a week, 9:30-11:30 call CALL MEG -X3884 on March 4th or before ........ passion Your right arm doesn't "I Don't Care Anymore" -Phil
SALE! 

Erich at 289-1882 matter, after a fashion. Collins
Lowest prices, best trips -1 00% 

PLEASE PLEASE!!!!! CALL But you, my dear, mean a lot to me We're not looking for songs that saguaranteed! Cancun, Jamaica, & 
Help make a difference-tutor Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. LAURIE AT x2729 Therefore please accept this "my heart is broken because I love Florida packages still available from adults trying to get their GEDs, 1 Will pay $$$. Call (708)835-2208 I WILL PAY$$$$$$$$ apology. someone," but songs that say "this America's student travel leader. 
morning a week, 9:30-11:30 call @$@$@$@$@$@$@ P.S.-1 hope you can still use whole love thing needs to beTravel tree -organize a small Erich at 289-1882 '&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'' handcuffs in bed. seriously rethought." RESULTS WILL BE PUBLISHED I~ group. Call STS@ (800) 648-4849. 
Do you have a friend visiting I need 2 tickets for the NO-Kentucky THE FEB. 12 OBSERVER from Miami OH this weekend? Basketball game. '"SPRING BREAK"' VALENTINES!!! 
SNAP-A-SCAM 

My valentine needs a ride 7 nights Beachfront in $100 FOR A STUDENT DRIVING So we need them by 2 p.m. 
S For only $2 our S 

back .please help, Todd 1195 Please call Cameron at 634-Panama City Beach, FL TO FLORIDA IN NEXT 60 DAYS. Thursday. Call Joe or Paul at 1203. 
1723 ...... Discount ID card included WOULD REQUIRE PICKING UP A And. as always, Prices start at $109. Hotels XEROX COPIER AND HAPPY HEARTBREAKING Ill filling up so don't delay. DELIVERING IT TO SARASOTA, 
&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'& Call James @289-2683 FLORIDA. CALL 264-9508 AND N Pangborn photo-N 

I,~~:~.~,.':~UNDII FOR RENT 

'"SPRING BREAK'" ASK FOR JULIE. Washington Hall. One Car key, two 3-5 person furnished house, Sec. 
NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY dorm keys, and another mise key. System, wash/dry, beach V-ball, 

800-777-0675 EXT 275 $$$$$$$$ ADOPTION: Were you Buy your tixs for the RAFFLE 4-2002. PRIME location, 233-9947. 
Needed: overwhelmed when you found out @SENIOR BAR on Thurs, 2/11. 
Several handsome guys to work as you were pregnant? We were LOST-We switched long navy I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS ushers at BP's SYR this Friday. overwhelmed when we found out Forecaster coats@ Tri-Mil. I have FOR THE MARQUETTE GAME!!!!!! Call Gina x1884 we couldn't have children. We're a ""SENIORS"' 
5 Br. house Newly Remodeled 

your camera in pocket. Call Jen Please call Chris or Mike x1117 Catholic nurse/doctor couple BUY YOUR SENIOR FORMAL 
Near Lafayette Square. 

284-5150 happily married for 9 years. If you RAFFLE TICKETS FOR THE 
Call 232-8256 

Housing Contracts Due Soon! want your baby to grow up with DRAWING THURS. @ SENIOR Lost-Canvas. brightly striped bag Joel, get off the babysitter. Still Time to MOVE OFF and patient, loving parents, a large BAR!! $1/each or $5/six from Jamison Inn after Tri-Mil. Call I say this to you because it'll be become truly independant! extended family, & two very sweet '"SENIORS''" 
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY -1

Jen 284-5150 Risky Business if you don't sell Skip dogs, please call Mary and Michael 
BDRM, USE OF ALL UTILITIES, 

tix for the Kentucky 1-800-759-6039. Senior Formal Raffle! 
GOAL-ORIENTED FEMALE 

WildCATASTROPHE on Feb. 13. prizes include: PREFERRED. CLEAN, SAFE
WANTED It's in your best interest (broken Dear Maralee, SOUTH PADRE -BEACHFRONT • 4 rooms @ the Marriot 
NEIGHBORHOOD. $225/MO. CALL 

arms) to call Skip at Wish I could be there for your Radisson Resort Wet suit contests, • 5 tuxedo rentalsSUMMER JOBS MONICA 232-2794. 
x2052 and make a deal or leave a birthday, but this will have to parties, sleeps 6-8 & Marco Island, • Dinners in ChicagoALL LAND/WATER SPORTS message. do. I'll drink a Strongbow for FL House -near Keys $750 week • T-shirts PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 3 BEDROOM HOUSE you. Happy Birthday! 813-642-5483ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Love,
NEAR LAKE PLACID SECURITY SYSTEM WeirupCALL 1-800-786-8373. 232-3616 

WE NEED KENTUCKY TIX Susie Atchinson was Saturday's White Sox Fan? Win 2 tickets to CALL 289-5563 Subway Sub of the game wl 7 pts! any game incl. free dinner in VIP
Adoption-Active. Young couple BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Way to go Suzl Love your pals in room! "Senior Formal Raffle" wants to adopt your bundle of joy. 219-291-7153. 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Would you like to win a VCR, 454.
Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ dinner, or your tux and hotel room SR. FORMAL TIX AVAILABLEPeggy 1-800-682-8628. FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT for SENIOR FORMAL? Susie Atchinson was Saturday's @ Sr. Bar Thurs. Feb 11th NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND 
WE NEED KENTUCKY TIX Raffle@ Senior Bar. 2/11. Tix are Subway Sub of the game w/ 7 pts! 9:30-12am Drawing begins@FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
CALL 289-5563 $1 or 6 for $5. Way to go Suz! Love your pals in midnight!!
2773097 454.
ALASKA SUMMER 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Quotes fromEMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn Lyons' Hell Formal
$600+/week 1n canneries or 2Br. Apts. Newly Remodeled I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA $4000+/month on fishing boats. 
Walking distance to NO 

CALL MATT AT x1741 '"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! I don't mean to be rude orFree transportatiOn! Room & Board! 
$300/mth. Call 232-8256 

THIS FEBRUARY 14th . BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 anything, but if the bus stops Over 8000 openings. No expenence I need one, only one ticket for Surprise Her with a Rose and a MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH here, I'll be sayin' "See ya." 
necessary. Male or Female. For 

the Kentucky game. Song delivered by a Glee Club KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, (Pete Luongo) employment program call 1-206­ND Apts. Completely Remodeled Please give me a call at Quartet ... DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, 2 Where the hell is Trung? 
545-4155 ext. A5584 walking distance to NO 42036 Surprise Her anywhere in the U.S. CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, 3 Val, that's not Bob! 

Call tor info. 232-8256 

and ask for Michael. with a Love song delivered by JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. 4 Well, we'll be having a party phone ... sometime in March, stop by.
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT · 5 Where the hell is Janet? 

Make money teaching bas1c 4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo 6 Val's exposing her hooters conversational English abroad. 

SUMMER SCHOOL 

SINGING VALENTINES again!

PERSONAL
Japan and Ta1wan. Many provide GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING 

Roses are cliched ... 7 The DOG BOOK LIES! 
room & board + other benefits! 
PROFS.. PREFERRED. CALL 

On-campus delivery to ND/SMC . Violets are chez... 8 I want to talk to YOU. andMake $2,000-$4.000+ per month. MONICA 232-2794. 
AVOID THE RUSH II!! 

.$5 Buy a PW carnation .. YOU, and YOU tomorrow!
No previous tra1nmg or teaching Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day 

Phone delivery to Anywhere, U.S.A. and KNOW what is says!! 9 It's a bad omen! The head of mycertificate reqwed. For employment message. but don't wait until the 
...$3 rose popped off! 
program call: last minute to type it in I! Classifieds


I FOR SALE 

PW Charity Carnation Sale at the 10 I'm sure you're a nice guy (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. 
can be placed anytime between 

On sale in the North and South Dining Halls but Tina's in a little trouble. 
SEPARATE STEREO now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The 

Dining Halls on Thursday, Friday you'll have to leave.
Driving South tor Spnng Break? COMPONENTS: AMP., TUNER, Observer office (3rd floor and Saturday Red= I love you 11 Wake up! Act Lively I I need ride to Dallas. TX. Leaving TAPE DECK AND EQUILIZER(good Lafortune). 

Pink=l like you SISTER's here! 
Fri. 3/5. Will help w1 gas. condition) SERENADE YOUR White= I want to know you 12 You didn't buy me a

Call Lynn 284-5473. $150.00 CALL271 1443 SWEETHEART! better present! 
Yellow=Friendship -Basement Crew 
Mothers helper needed part time 
Hey MB: You've gotta stop hanging Green=????

days and evenmgs. Perfect for 


TICKETS 
around LL and that trucker mouth To the lady outside Sacred summer JOb also. Must be friendly, 

Heart yesterday at 1 :00. The Friday dinner with expenence and own car. 232­SHORT ON CASH? 
comment was not directed at Monday lunch and dinner 2201 Need Kentucky Tix Borrow from the you. I apologize for any Tuesday lunch 2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud. 
OBSERVE
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

misunderstanding.
Call Ryan X3596 $1/carnation & we deliver to 
CAMPUS
EX-ND STAFFER & SPOUSE 
30 day loans ND/SMCIIIDESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED Up to $250 

SMOKING
Alii,
APARTMENT FOR SUMMER. 
@ 1% interest 

Hi Putster! I was wondering what to Great for Valentines day and NON-SMOKERS. REFERENCES. MY BEST FRIEND FROM 
REGULATIONS
get you for your B-day. What Elth cheaper than any florist around ... 
WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MARQUETTE IS COMING FOR Monday -Friday would be better than an ad in TheMULBERRY FL 33860 or PHONE THE GAME AND I DESPERATELY 11:30-12:30 Observer? I love ya, Put. Happy xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo(813)425-4404 NEED TICKETSIII HELP MElli 1st Floor Lafortune 19th I Don't get too many tickets! 

CALL LAURA X4-2999 O'Hara Lounge 

Love, Ross 
Tuesday, January 9, 1993 The Observer page 9 

Beville makes comeback from crippling preseason car crash 

By TONY POTTINGER Spof!s Writer 
The first thing freshman Ryan Beville remembers about his near-fatal car wreck last August is lying in a hospital bed as his team of doctors forecast permanent brain damage and an end to his aspirations to compete for the University of Notre Dame swim team. 
But now, six months later, the Richmond, Va. native has demonstrated that the proper motivation and a measure of stubborness can overcome al­most any obstacle medical science has to offer. 
Faced with the paralysis of the right side of his body follow­ing a serious accident less than a week before he was to report to Notre Dame, the Zahm Hall resident focused his motivations and emotions on his girlfriend, who was in the car with Beville but sustained only minor injuries. Beville says it was in large part "a personal desire to overcome my situation," which enabled him to work his way through an arduous re­habiliation and allowed him to ·oin the Notre Dame community this semester. "I was just stubborn and unwilling to ac­cept it," he says. 
The accident forced Beville to take a step back and put things in perspective. Reasssured by head swim coach Tim Welsh not to worry about missing his first semester (the University held his room in Zahm). Beville focused m1 getting out of the hospital and through his reha­bilatation program. 
"It was then that I realized that I had taken things for granted," he admits. "I re­membered being in high school and not really caring much for what I was learning. I then realized that I might no longer have the capacity to learn at all." 
Beville, however, is quite pleased with his academic per­formance thus far. The biggest surprise has been math class, a subject doctors had said would be difficult at best considering the nature of his brain injuries. "When I told my parents about math they were pretty sur­prised." 
An admirer of William Faulkner, Beville plans to major in writing and minor in Japanese. "I'm still catching up somewhat academically, espe­cially in English and Japanese, but I'm pleased." 
Beville, red-shirted this year, will be able to compete for four full years. 
He also will enjoy the distinct honor of competing in the Na­tional Junior Olympics next month in Boca Raton, Florida. Though he has yet to swim in competition for the Irish, he practices daily with the team and joined his fellow freshmen swimmers yesterday in preparing a customary spaghetti dinner for the upper­classmen. 
"The swim team is like a family and has been very sup­portive," he says. "Especially after the bus accident last win­ter, they really could relate to my situation." 
Now, the honors graduate and Virginia state-record holder in the 100-meter butterfly approaches his sport with a new-found motivation and at­titude. "My situation has been good for my mental condition­ing," he says. "It has shown me how much I can overcome. Now, an obstacle such as mak­ing a new time interval be­comes quite small." 
He displays as little effect from the media attention he has garnered as from his actual injuries. The subject of several major publications, he remains unphased. 
"People joke and call me 'newspaper boy,' but I don't mind telling people about it i they're concerned and want to help," he says. "Athletes have to realize that they will face a lot of attention when they face a situation like this, but I feel ath­letics have played a large part in my recovery." 

1 Indiana (51) 20-2 1611 1 2 Kentucky (14) 17-1 15732 3 Duke 17-3 147654 Mich. an 18-3 1413 7 5 Ariz~a 15-2 1284 8 8 North Carolina 18-3 1279 6 7 Kansas 18-3 1252 3 8 Cincinnati 17-2 1163 4 9 Wake Forest 15-3 1022 
1 1 0 Florida State 16-6 980 11 Vanderbilt 17-4 896 12 UNLV 14-2 811 13 Iowa 14-5 796 14 Arkansas 15-4 790 15 Marquette 17-2 687 18 Utah 17-3 632 17 Pittsburgh 14-4 474 18 Purdue 13-5 415 19 Seton Hall 16-6 334 20 Tulane 16-4 259 21 Boston College 13-5 237 22 Massachusetts 15-4 216 23 KansasSt. 14-3 211 24 Virginia 13-4 193 25 New Orleans 17-2 188 ­
Illinois 161, Michigan State 102, Georgia Tech 92, Brigham Yourljl70, Oklahoma 68, Louisville 64, New MeXIco State 59, Xavier, Ohio 58, Wisconsin 36, Memphis State 33, Nebraska 20, Syracuse 19, St Joseph's 7, Long Beach State 5, Georgetown 4, Western Kentucky 4, Minnesota 3, Iowa St 2, New Mexico 2, Southern Methodist 2, LSU 1, Manhattan 1. 
1 Tennessee (67) 20-1 1699 1 2 Vanderbilt 19-1 1626 2 3 Iowa (1) 17-1 1568 3 4 Colorado 20-1 1453 5 5 Penn State 15-2 1375 4 6 Auburn 19-1 1358 8 7 OhioSt. 14-3 1292 6 8 Stanford 17-4 12419 9 Maryland 16-4 1120 7 1 0 Lou1siana Tech 16-3 1111 11 Texas Tech 16-3 900 12 North Carolina 18-2 857 13 Stephen F. Austin 17-3 856 14 Virginia 15-5 800 15 Texas 14-5 775 16 Southern Cal 14-4 768 17 Vrmont 18-0 565 18 Western Kentucky 13-5 505 19 UNLV 16-1 486 20 Oklahoma State 20-3 402 21 Clemson 14-5 245 22 N. Illinois 14-3 219 23 Nebraska 16-5 166 24 Hawaii 20-3 118 25 California 13-5 78 

DePaul73, Kentucky 66, Mlarri 46, Kansas St. 44, Northwestern 37, Connecticut 33, Montana 30, Florida 26, Brigjham Young 24, Butler 20, Rutgii!S18, Bowling Green 12, Karlaa 10, Creighton 9, Florida St. S, Wake Foresl 5, Boise St . .il, Indiana 4, Arizona St. 3, George Washington 2. Arizona t, Old Dominion 1, Montana St. 1. 


Irish set to take on Angels 
Special to The Observer by Baseball America. The Irish open their season March 8 
ANAHEIM, Ca. The 
against Arizona State. They

California Angels announced play the University of Arizona Monday they will play the March 9 and 10 prior to their University of Notre Dame in a game with the Angels on the spring training benefit game evening of the 1Oth. 
Wednesday, March 10, at Tempe Diablo Stadium in The Angels-Irish contest is Arizona. 
scheduled for 8 p.m. California Notre Dame finished 48-15 in 

also has a scheduled spring

1992 and received a pre-season training game with the Chicagoranking of No. 15 in the nation Cubs that afternoon. 







The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the 
1993-94 General Board 

NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The news editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The viewpoint editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists, and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The sports editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The accent editor manages a staff of editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, oversees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The photo editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians, and must work closely with department editors is assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The advertising manager oversees ad representatives and clerks and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The ad design manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with the advertising department and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The production manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The systems manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER TYPESETTING DIRECTOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience, especially with QuarkXPress, Aldus Pagemaker and Aldus PrePrint. The OTS director manages all aspects of the typesetting business, including client relations and new business development. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, Feb. 12, 1993 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 
....­

page 10 The Observer Tuesday, February 9, 1993 

DuBose reveals possible Washington improprieties 
SEATTLE (AP) -Former Notr,e Dame linebacker Demetrius DuBose says a son­in-law of Washington football coach Don James talked with him about the possible benefits of transferring to Washington. but never pressured him to change schools. 
DuBose said he and Jim Heckman had a casual conver­sation 2 1/2 years ago in which Heckman outlined potential business opportunities and con­tacts available after graduation if DuBose played for the Huskies. 
"He didn't encourage me to leave Notre Dame, but he did say, 'Here's what we have to offer at the University of Washington,"' DuBose told The Seattle Post-lntelligencer in a story Saturday. 
"lie told me what my options were if I left Notre Dame. I wasn't sure if it was legal or il­legal. To me, it didn't really seem that it was illegal." Du­Bose said by telephone Friday from South Bend. Ind. 
"I already had a relationship with him." 
Tennis 
from page 24 
large, vocal crowd. so if we can get ahead early and take the fans out. that would definitely help us." 
Another player, Singor Mobley of Washington State. told the Pacific-10 Conference that Heckman tried to convince him to renege on an oral commit­ment to sign with the Cougars two years ago, according to Saturday's Los Angeles Times. 
DuBose, a Seattle native, re­cently graduated from Notre Dame and is awaiting the NFL draft. He was employed by Heckman, who owns a small publishing company. during the summer of 1990. 
The Pac-10 has been investi­gating the Washington football program for possible impropri­ety by Husky boosters and players. DuBose said David Price, associate commissioner of the Pac-1 0, questioned him about Heckman for an hour in Seattle last December. 
Heckman is president of Sportslmage, Inc .. which pub­lishes Sports Washington, a Seattle-based magazine devoted largely to Husky sports. A former UW student. he is mar­ried to. but separated from, James' youngest daughter, Jeni. Heckman said he has known 
A win against the Badgers would push the Irish record to one match below .500. More important, however, is the confidence and momentum a victory would give Notre Dame going into weekend contests against top-twenty teams Ken­tucky and Texas. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The men's varsity rowing team i~ in ·need of rowers and will be holding testing on February 10 at 7 p.m. at Loftus. Interested parties should send a brief statement outlining your interest. telephone number and class year to William T. Webb at 52236 Ironwood Dr .. S.B., 466:~5. 
fnterhall floor hockey referees are needed. Anyone interested should call the RecSports office at 631-6100. 
SportsTalk welcomes women's basketball players Coquese Washington and Letitia Bowen tonight at 8 p.m. on WVFI 640AM. Call in with your questions and comments a 632-6400. 
Follow the Irish hockey team to Michigan on February 27. Bus costs $25 and it leaves at 3 p.m. on the 27th. Reserve you seat now by seeing Phil Bennett in 149 Stepan Chemistry Hall before February 13. 
Were you an athletic stud In high school? The Observer is looking for former prep stars who are not playing varsity sports in college. If you fit this description, please call Jenny Marten at 631-4543 as soon as possible. 

DuBose since the player's high school days and the two worked together at Sportslmage Inc. in 1990 assembling programs for the Goodwill Games. 
He denied trying to encourage DuBose to transfer to or sign with Washington. 
"We had a close friendship. We worked together for an en­tire summer," Heckman said. "We talked about football, Notre Dame, Washington, girls, softball ... 
"This is not about trying to get someone to go to another school, it's about that I'm Don James son-in law," he said. "People are looking for a target ... It's really getting tiresome." 
Price would not comment Fri­day on his inquiries into Heck­man. 
Heckman is a member of Washington's Tyee Club booster organization. NCAA rules forbid boosters and other representatives of a university's athletic interests from holding conversations with an athlete from another school that could be perceived as recruiting contact. 
ST.IDIARD'S 
JEROME BETIIS TOM CARTER 
SPEAK ON 
"WHY WE GAVE UP OUR SENIOR YEAR" 
Wednesday, February 10 7:00P.M. at St. Edward's Hall 

DuBose said he thought about leaving Notre Dame after his freshman year and discussed it with Heckman, whom he con­sidered a friend as well as his employer. 
"I don't feel he did anything wrong," DuBose said. ;I felt he was a friend I could talk to. I could bounce ideas off him. I had a pretty good relationship with him. I felt I could tell him anything. 
"If he tried to influence me to come to the University of Washington. he did a terrible job." 
DuBose said he hasn't spoken to Heckman since last summer. 
DuBose was suspended for two games by the NCAA last season for receiving $600 and other benefits from a pair of Notre Dame boosters who live in Seattle. 
' Birthdau 

' 
Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 

FLORALCO.  
Inc.  Remember Yo~r Sweetheart  
on Valentme's Day!  
~  ,.  __  327 Lincolnway West, South Bend  
~­ 232-3354  
Mary B. Green 


Come in and Browse 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------, 

IC~B~RG D~BAl~S 
ROUND 3 

II Resolved, that the University of Notre Dame should recognize pro-choice student groups.~~ 
The first dorm listed has on affirmative position and is the location for that particular debate. 
ROUND THREE 
Sarin v. Breen-Phillips St. Ed's v. Siegfried Fisher v. Zohm Alumni Bv. Pangborn Keenan v. Bodin Morrissey v. Stanford Dillon v. Alumni A 
Round Three will be held at 9:00PM on Tuesday. February 9. 


..... 
.. 
-.. 


Tuesday, February 9, 1993  Today  page 11  
25 Begot 28 Mexican man's Larry of N.B.A. cloakfame 30 Faxon or KiteTV host Sajak 31 Large wading Rigid support bird 33 Amalgamation 37 Stimulus 39 Small bouquet 40 President after PolkOperatic melody 41 Broadcasts Boring tool 42 Heavy weight AI Pacino film: 43 Page boy's 1975 activity 45 Corpulent 47 Label 49 Superlative suffix SO Chemical ending  H-\ 11-\RQ.W\NG \'£<JPl£ OfF tll'f TRML '«In\ OE.CHT\\J'C: FOOIPRIN\S. 51 "The-," B. Hope film 57"... her poor dog-" 58 Rivulet 59 Type of plaintiff 60The one occasion &1 Stewpot &2 Small plateau &3 Puka or upas 64 Kin of long. &5 Baseball equipment DOWN 1 Kind of eagle 2 One's own: Comb. form 3Tolled 4 Sprinkle with flour 5 Pintner products & Distinctive air 7 Paltry trinkets a Cops on their beats? 9 Austerity 10 Margarines  JAY HOSLER BILL WATIERSON SEE I E'JER'{C>N'C: 'tl\LL W\.lo EXf>...C.n..'( LOOKIT1 T\.\I~K Tl-lt:SE. TAAC\::.'S W£R'C: \'S ON 'fO\JR \X)£.SNT 1\\lRT Mf\DE B'{ 1\ GNE·LEGGE.\) TRMl? 1b Tf\KE K\0 GOII'lG THAT 'NI\i, f..NO ?RECI\\JT\ON'5. TIIE~'ll BE. C.Ot-\?LHEL'( WR<J~G! 2& "La Douce" 39 El -,Spanish so Renown 27 Glutinous; hero 51 Tilt viscous 41 Formican 52 Tipper Gore, mound -Aitcheson28 Fam. member 44 Houston 53 She, in Sonora29-non grata athlete 54 Cruising  THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON D \)a () Be a virus, see the world. CAMPUS Tuesday 12:15 p.m. Noontalks, "Faculty Highlights." Gallery West, O'Shaughnessy, The Snite Museum of Art. Admission free. Sponsored by the Snite Museum of Art. 7 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting, Room 202, Center for Continuing Education. 7 p.m. Film, "Spellbound." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission charged. 7 p.m. Relationships seminar, "Starting Off on the Right Foot: Beginning Healthy Relationships," Kimberly Hilton and Jamie Davidson, Notre Dame Counseling Center. Room 300, University Counseling Center, Health Services Building. Admission free. Sponsored by the University Counseling Center. 9:15 p.m. Film, "Breathless." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission charged. LECTURES Tuesday 12:30 p.m. Lecture: "Human Rights in Peru," Susan Weissert and Larry Rich, Lima, Peru. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Admission free. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute. 3:30 p.m. Seminar: "Genetic Engineering to Enhance the Selectivity of Protein Separations," Charles Glatz, Iowa State University. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Admission free. Sponsored by the chemical engineering department. MENU  

~=+=E-l 11 Honey buzzard 32Rough and 
46Daze 
55 Remainder
prickly 
47Small drum 

~~~~-14 He's out to 5& Affirmative
munch 34 Swinger in the 
7 48 Make up for votes
garden
-;::t-;-+.-;-t.Br.::-t:-1 15 Gob 35 These may take trips Get answers to any three clues 3& Director Clair by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 38 Refined grace 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 122~ 


an 

FADED? 
Revive your tan with our 
EUROTAN 
tanning beds 1 0 for $35°0 or $5°0 per single session 
with student 10 Expires 2122193 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Batter fried perch Grill Bar Roast Turkey Pasta Bar SpinachFettucine Alfredo Turkey Cutlet 
Beef Fajita 

Hair 
Cut 

-
we 


1811 South Bend Ave. 271-7674 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
.. 
Sports 

page 12 Tuesday, February 9, 1993 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 
Irish need to win the 'sure things' (like Dayton) 
Notrn Dame fans ask very little of the men's basketball team. NCAA tournament bids and the Sweet Sixteen are expectations placed in seasons far, far away. The small expectations fans have centers on the occasional win, but more importantly the occasional "sure thing." 
Notre Dame fans will occasionally call for an upset of Duke or UCLA but that need is secondary to wins over St. Bonaventure, Valparaiso, and Dayton. Fans need a sure thing to let their pulse rates drop, and regain a sense of the team's standing on a national scale. 
This season. fans' pulse rates have skyrocketed as of late thanks to four straight losses, but according to tradition the Irish appear ready to break free from their slump. The an­nual trip to the University of Dayton Arena has come. and the 2-16 Flyers seem like. well, a sure thing. 
Even in the darkest of years, Notre DamP could always be considered among the nation's mediocre, and at the start of this season. that seemed a safe ranking for Coach John MacLeod's team. But an 8-11 record and the recent skid has dropped Notre Dame near the edge of the mediocre line, and caused reason not to write in tonight's game as a lock win for Notre Dame. 

Dayton lost to Notre Dame 71-66 January 9 at the Joyce ACC and since Uwn has dropped live of their last six. But of those losses, two were close setbacks to Butler and Detroit Mercy, teams whieh dominatf~d Notre Dame. The one win carne in convincing fashion at Loyola, a victim of Notre Dame's earlier in the season. 
But on the flip side. we are still talking about Dayton, a team holding a 1-8 mark at home. Also, two projected starters, senior forward Alex Hobertson and sophomore center Chris Daniels, fell to injuries prior to the start of the season, depleting an already thin linnup. 
Thesn faets givfl an indication that Irish fans could say without a hard swallow that tonight will mark the end of Notre Dame's four-game losing streak. But then again, this season's tmtm has been all but consistent. 
In the January 9 contest center Chip llare's victirniwd the Irish defense for :n points and 14 rebounds prompted Dayton Coach Jim O'Brien to say "llare is our Haas." The Flyers are known as an outside-shooting team, making Ilaw's JJPrforrriance a little odd. But not too unusual for an Irish defensn which has been abused this season. 
The inconsistency showed itself weeks earlier in a loss to St. Bonaventure. forcing Irish fans to wonder if Dayton is the next suppos.-dly "sure thing" to topple Notre Dame. 
But why fantasize about an Irish loss. Dayton is just one of those teams. But it also Sel'mS that the number of "sure things" has less«med from the Irish schedule in the past years. Detroit M1~n~y and Butler were onee pendled in as lock wins but are now question marks. 
Until forced to say otherwise, Dayton is a "sure thing." But no longer the surest. 
-INSIDE SPORTS 
•Ryan 
Beville makes a comeback see page 9 

•DuBose 
speaks about booster see page 10 

•Irish 
ink deal with Angels see page 9 




Men's tennis prepares for Kentucky 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The 6th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team traveled to the Bluegrass State yesterday in preparation for tonight's dual meet with the 11 th-rankcd Wildcats of the University of Kentucky. 
Tonight's meet will be an­other chance for the Irish to prove they can compete with the top teams in the nation. after falling in their first meet against a top-1 0 team on January 31. In that meet the 8th-ranked Tarheels beat the Irish 5-3 on the strength of two doubles wins. 
However, the Irish seem to be poised for the Wildcats, after preparing for two weeks for the clash in Lexington. The only Irish player to compete in the last two weeks has been top singles player Will Forsyth. 
Forsyth, the 19th-ranked singles player in the nation. was invited to the Holex Indoor National Championship in Min­neapolis, and was impressive in advancing to the second 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

round. Forsyth first defeated
Mark Schmidt will play a key role for Notre Dame against Kentucky. 


Irish face Dayton; Cozen lost for season 
Observer Staff Report 16 Dayton could 
Hoover be just the scored a 
The problems continue to remedy the Irish career-high mount for the Notre Dame need, right? 28 points and men's basketball team. Not if their Williams 
Junior Carl Cozen will miss previous finished with the rest of the season with a meeting is any 10, inc~luding stress fractun~ in his foot, di­indication. On a elutch minishing Notre Dame's al­January 9, three-pointer ready shallow bench. A Dayton visited in the final similar injury sidelined the Joyce Center minute to freshman Keith Kurowski and nearly seal the during the preseason. escaped with a victory. 
But lack of depth is only one victory. A Dayton's
Carl Cozen 
of the problems that has hurt sloppy offensive Chip llare, a the Irish this season. performance nearly cost the 6-10 sophomore, hit six three­Turnovers and poor shooting Notre Dame the game. But pointers on thP way to a 33­have cost Notre Dame six of the emergence of sophomore point performance. lie also their last nine games and Jason Williams and freshman equalled his career-best in their last four in a row. Ryan Hoover lifted the Irish to rebounds with 13. 
So tonight's game against 2-a tenuous 71-66 win. Junior guard Derrick Dukes 
Irish women take on Badgers 
By RIAN AKEY Sports Writer 
One and three. 1-3. 
Any way you look at it, a record of 1-3 just doesn't manage to impress. However, the Irish women's tennis squad carrying that mark into today's match at Wisconsin just may be the best 1-3 team in the country. 

In their first four matches, the Notre Dame women have faced three teams -Duke, UCLA, and Georgia -ranked in the top seven of Division 
I . And for a team starting freshmen in three of its six spots. the Irish have performed well against the challenging schedule. 

In fact, if the Irish continue their solid play, Coach Jay Louderback believes the women will soon be pulling upsets over their ranked compfltition. 
"Against all our opponents we have had a lot of three-set matches. All the women on the team are scrappy and aggressive-they come right at you-and it's only a matter of time before we break through and upset some teams." 
Although Wisconsin is not currently ranked, the match against the Badgers is an important step toward an Irish breakthrough. 
Momentum may be on the side of the Irish as they travel to Madison today. Notre Dame's only win came in their most recent match against Minnesota. According to Loudflrback, this victory was important for squad morale. 
"Minnesota wasn't a ranked team, but it still was a big win for us as far as confidence is concerned. I think some of the players may have been getting a little frustrated." 
If momentum does not key an Irish win at Wisconsin, perhaps revenge will be a factor. The Irish were beaten at Eck Pavilion by the Badgers last season. 
"In the last two years," said Louderback, "we've traded victories [with Wisconsin]. There seems to be a growing rivalry and I think that's because we're very similar teams. Along with Indiana and North­western, both squads are in the top four in the Midwest Hegion, so this match is important to our qualifying status for the NCAA Tournament. 
"A key to winning the match for us will be getting ahead in the singles portion. We did not do that in the three matches we lost, but if we can against Wisconsin, we'll be in good shape. They always seem to have a 
see TENNIS/page 1 0 
Pepperdine's Howard Joffe, fending off' match point in a third-set tinbrakcr, and then fell to 6th-ranked Mike Sell of (;eorgia, 4-6, 7-5, 6-4. 
Forsyth's showing has re­newed his confidence for the upcoming dual me«~t season, which bodes well for the rest of the Irish as they take on the talented Wildcats. 
''I'm playing with some confidence," said Forsyth. "And they have a pretty solid lineup." 
That Wildcat lineup is led by Major Gudars. a talented player from Australia. 
"lie's a very flashy player," said Forsyth, "I am sure he'll feed off the big home crowd." 
Besidfls Forsyth's ·matchup with Gudars, the Irish will be challenged in the doubles matehes, where Forsyth and Chuck Coleman, Mark Schmidt and Chris Wojtalik. and Hon Hosas and freshman Jason Pun have run into problems as of late. 
Th11 winner of two out of the three doubles matches wins a point in the overall searing, and that point will be important against such an evenly matched opponent as Kentucky. 

is Dayton's other offensive weapon. averaging l 0. 7 points per game. 
Some good news for tlw Irish is that the Fivers have struggled at IH;me this season, winning only one of nine games in Dayton. But Notre Dame has had similar problems on tlw road. dropping six of their last seven games away from tlw Joyce Center. 
With games against Ken­tucky, North Carolina. Louisvilh~ and Marquette still alwad, the Irish have to win against the sub-par teams to hold on to even the most re­mote hope of post-season play. 

The Observer/Jake Peters Christy Faustmann and the women's tennis team meet Wisconsin in an important match for the Irish. 




