The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 106 FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Suspect arrested in World Trade Center bombing 
NEW YORK-A man de­scribed as a follower of a radi­cal Muslim cleric was arrested Thursday in last week's World Trade Center bombing when he coolly tried a third time to reclaim a rental deposit on the van determined to have housed the bomb. 
Other suspects were being sought in what prosecutor Gilmore Childres called "the single most destructive act of terrorism ever committed on American soil." The motive remained unclear. 
"This investigation clearly is not finished, but a large first step has been taken," James Fox. FBI chief in New York, said at a news briefing Thursday night. 
Mohammed A. Salameh, 25, was charged with aiding and abetting_ the bombing and a fire that followed, and with trans­portation of explosives across state lines. The Jersey City, N.J., resident was ordered held without bail and faces life in prison if convicted. A hearing was set for March 18. 
Pro-life group stirs controversy 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
A national anti-abortion group is calling Notre Dame hypocritical for cancelling a two week pro-life conference on campus that it claims to have scheduled with the University in December. 
The Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL), say that the University approved the "Agape in Action Alternative to Spring Break" conference to take place March 14-26 at Notre Dame, but later cancelled it after CALL published an ad­vertisement announcing the event in the Jan. 18 edition of "The Wanderer," a weekly Catholic magazine. 
According to a CALL press release, William Kirk, assistant vice president for student af­fairs, told Notre Dame Right to Life members Bill Keen and Claire Johnson on Jan. 25 that the project will not be permit­ted, citing the advertisement as the reason for the cancellation. 
But University officials claim that the conference was never formally approved. Patricia O'Hara, vice president for stu­dent affairs, said that she heard of the conference for the first time when she saw the adver­tisement. 
"Notre Dame Right to Life claim that they contacted the office in October to arrange the event for CALL. I have no recollection of speaking to them," she said. 
"Claims that we cancelled the conference are not true. No authorization was ever granted by the University," said Michael Garvey, assistant director of Public Relations and Informa­tion at Notre Dame. "They did not follow the regular proce­dures dictated by the Office of 
see PRO-LIFE I page 4 

The arrest was a sudden, major break in the most noto­rious U.S. bombing in years. Just a day earlier, the FBI had said it could take months to crack the case. 
The van Salameh rented was the one that carried the bomb, FBI Agent Thomas G. Donlon said in an affidavit filed with the court. Charred fragments of the Ford Econoline E-350 van ­including an axle with a traceable identification number -were recovered at the blast site. 
The affidavit also said a search of a Jersey City apart­ment with a bomb-sniffing dog turned up bomb-making equipment including wiring and manuals on circuitry and electromagnetic devices. On the rental agreement Salameh had given the phone number for that apartment; it wasn't immediately clear whether he lived there. 
Salameh, in federal court in New York City on Thursday night, appeared relaxed as an interpreter read the charges to 
Suspect's van 

Length: 1 0' 7" Height: 4' 5" Width: 6' 8" Cargo volume: 261 cu. ft. 

him in Arabic. "Why?" he asked his attorney repeatedly. The court-appointed defense lawyer, Robert Precht, asked unsuccessfully that bail be set at $5 million. 
Papers that the suspect pre­sented the rental agency several days ago were covered with nitrates, a government source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told The Associated Press. Nitrates are found in some explosives; traces of 

API Bob Bianchini 
nitrates were found at the blast site. 
Friday's blast in a garage beneath the twin towers killed five people, injured more than 1 ,000, left one missing and sent fear through the nation's largest city. It caused a crater four stories deep. The 110-story towers -the world's second­tallest buildings, home to hundreds of businesses more than 50,000 workers -aren't expected to reopen for a month. 
The Observer/Eric Ruethlin 
By ALICIA REALE Assistant News Editor 
D'Juan Francisco and Frances Shavers, former alumni repre­sentatives for the Notre Dame Alumni Association, have been appointed assistant directors of alumni clubs, according to Charles Lennon, assistant vice president for University rela­tions and executive director of the association. 
"I could not be happier for them and the University. They have been with us a year and done a fantastic job for the Alumni Association. It is the appropriate time to reward them for the great work they have done," Lennon said. 
"This new position has only been in existence for ten years. It puts major emphasis on club leadership developments and programs, Lennon said. 
"Becoming assistant directors is an opportunity to expand ourselves personally and pro­fessionally. The job description is not changed but we are not limited," Shavers said. "Every day is different, no day is a mirror of another. We deal with a variety of people, interests and concerns." 

Francisco and Shavers both came to the association in Jan­uary 1992 as alumni represen­tatives. They primarily serve·as liaisons between the University and its 215 alumni clubs worldwide. 
As alumni liaisons, they go out and visit and communicate with members and leaders of the clubs, according to Fran­cisco. 
"We keep them in touch with what is going on in the Univer­sity," he said. 
"There are over 96,000 alumni world-wide. People come to Notre Dame for rea-

One law enforcement source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Thursday the attack could have been in retal­iation for the Persian Gulf War. The bombing came on the sec­ond anniversary of the U.S. ouster of Iraq's army from Kuwait. But a Clinton adminis­tration source said evidence of Mideast terrorist involvement was "iffy." 
The arrest came after an army of investigators spent the past week combing through piles of rubble at the blast site, fielding thousands of phone calls and pursuing scores of leads. Detectives systematically checked garage payment stubs and viewed videotapes of enter­ing vehicles. 
The suspect had rented the van from a Ryder truck agent in Jersey City on Feb. 23 and returned less than two hours after the explosion Friday afternoon to say it had been stolen from him in Jersey City, said Paul Mascitelli, owner of a car dealership that shares an 
see BOMB I page 4 



Law team 
. 

argues 1n regional finals 
By JOHN LUCAS News Writer 
Notre Dame Law School's In­ternational Moot Court Team recently competed in the re­gional finals of the Phillip C. Jessup International Moot Court Competition, winning four rounds of oral argument and just missing a chance to advance to the finals in Wash­ington, D.C. 
Comprised of law students Sarah Buescher, Kimberly Burnett, John Plunkett, and Douglas McNitt, the team trav­elled to Indianapolis Feb. 19 and 20 to compete against teams from the University of Chicago, University of Michi­gan, Wayne State University and the eventual champions, Northwestern University. 
The competition was close to the end, according to Burnett. 
"Going into the final oral ar­guments, Northwestern had the I advantage and were lucky to be I able to pick their strongest arguments," she said. "They were a very good team, but not 
see COURT I page 4 

sons besides the athletics or academics. There is a unique bond with the University and we are trying to follow up on that and further strengthen the bond," Shavers said. "We are also trying to develop an awareness of the Alumnae As­sociation on campus." 
In addition, they have worked to develop Notre Dame's Stu­dent Alumni Relations Group (SARG). SARG is not a new group but is not well known but "it is growing by leaps and bounds," Francisco said. 
"SARG is a totally student run 
see ALUMNI I page 4 


-----------~­

page 2 The Observer Friday, March 5, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN 
• 

lnvolvment of ND community critical to future 
I've graced this 
column from time to 
time in the last four 
years, exposing my self­
conceived rightness 
about a host of topics. 
Many times, readers 
liked what I had to say. 
But more often than 
not, my Inside Columns 
brought me complaints, 
criticism and even 

"hate e-mail"-which-------­is, I suppose, stretching technology and a grudge about as far as either could go. So before I descend from the bully pulpit for the last time and hand over the reins of The Observer to a new Editor-in-Chief. allow me to harp upon a favorite topic just one more time. Last spring, I wrote a column severely taking Notre Dame to task for some un-Christianlike behavior. I made the case that when the chips were down in several cases, the all-powerful, Catholic dynasty was forgetting what it meant to be Christian in the first place. The evidence was everywhere: From the appalling silence following allegations of sexual misconduct by Father James Burtchaell to the runarounds given to groups like SUFR and GLND/SMC, Notre Dame had done a fabulous "ob of doing nothing about a host of spiritual and emotional problems that plague this community. Little has changed in the last year. And my point was seconded in a recent letter to the editor in which an astute history professor raised urgent questions about who is making the decisions that chart Notre Dame's future course in an increasingly complex, diverse world. The very individuals who are making these crucial decisions are those who are most removed from the impact. White male priests gather to discuss cultural diversity. A handful o non-threatening women administrators and professors are spread thinly across countless committees and subcommittees to add their "unique" perspectives and not rock the boat. And when students are included in ventures like the Colloquy 2000, their involvement reeks of tokenism, reduced to notetakers among a sea of elders who already know the answers to questions they spent months asking. After four years at Notre Dame, I'm still not sure where the University is going. Some say Notre Dame will be the Harvard of the Midwest, teeming with graduate programs that beef up its reputation. Others say it will refocus on its Catholicity, the characteristic that made the University what it is today. For Notre Dame to make any of these or other decisions, it must have help from those who will 
be affected. They're the undergraduates who aren't in student government or other clubs, but who have come here to learn and live as 
"normal" college students. They're the graduate students who really do want to spend their lives teaching. They're the professors who don't have an agenda, the priests who believe in the modernization of the Church and the nuns whose voices are long overdue to be heard. 
It is these people who need to be making decisions at Notre Dame. Without them, there is no Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff  
News  
Katie Murphy  Systems  
John Lucas  Harry Zembillas  
Production  Sports  
Brian Faiola  Rich Kurz  
Kristin Ruethling  
Viewpoint  
Accent  Allison Ebel  
Kenya Johnson  
Lis Heard  
Steve Duenes  
Don Modica  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Forecast for noon, Friday, March 5
WEATHER REPORT 

I 10s 
) 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
• LUSAKA, Zambia-President Frederick Chiluba declared a state of emergency Thursday after reports the main opposition party was plotting to overthrow the 
elected government. The move -just 1 1/2 years after the co~ntry w~n praise for its peaceful transition to democracy -IS certam to damage the confidence of foreign investors whose capital is desperately needed in one of the world's poorest nations. Zambia has not had any demonstrations, protests or unrest recently. Many observers saw Chiluba's move as an attempt to crush mounting criticism of his government, which critics say is corrupt and responsible for the 200 percent annual inflation rate in the southern African nation. The emergency declaration gives the government widespread powers to detain people without trial and restrict civil liberties, but there was no immediate crackdown by the security forces. 
NATIONAL 
White House rebuffs AMA's help 
• WASHINGTON-The White House today rejected the American Medical Association's request for a bigger voice in remodeling the nation's health-care system, saying it is keeping all special interest groups at arms length. AMA Executive Vice President James S. Todd, in a letter this week to Clinton health care adviser Ira Magaziner, asked for more direct involvement in the administration's reform process, warning that changes "will fail without the support of the profession." Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers responded today that "it would be a conflict of interest, we believe, to have representatives of various interest groups ... as official members of the (task force) working groups." The AMA supports Clinton's calls for "managed com­petition" to restrain costs through large insurance purchasing groups and for requiring employers to offer insurance coverage to their workers. 
OF INTEREST 
• USAir and Anthony Travel have scheduled a special Notre Dame Appreciation Day reception for the faculty, staff and students of Notre Dame. The event is scheduled for March 10 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the lower level of the LaFortune Student Center. There will be a drawing for free airline tickets on USAir. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 4 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 295,556,030 -0.88 to 246.53 S&P COMPOSITE -1.92 to 447.34 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -5.13 to 3,398.91

UNCHANGED 597 

GOLD 
+ $.20 to $330.60 oz. 
SILVER 
+ $0.021 to $3.533 oz. 

© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
(f Mu, 
ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
I 


McCartney plans to keep going 
• PERTH, Australia-Paul McCartney, who turned 50 last summer, said Thursday that he has no plans to retire, even though he once thought 30 was too old to rock 'n' roll. McCartney is starting a world tour on Friday with a performance in Perth. Asked if it would be his last tour, the former Beatie only shrugged. "I 


thought I'd be finished at about 30 to tell you the truth," he said. "I thought 30 was a very unseemly age to be rocking and a rolling. And you know, 40 came and then 50 comes and I'm having the best time in my life now, you know. So who knows?" McCartney is scheduled to perform in New Zealand, the United States, Canada and Europe. 
CAMPUS 

Broken cole causes campus outage 
• 
NOTRE DAME-Electrical power to about half of the Notre Dame campus was interrupted yesterday morning for 25 minutes. The University lost its feed form the Indiana Michigan Power Co. at 11:15 a.m. when the cross broke on a utility pole on Douglas Hoad east of Juniper Road, according to Edward Keve, assistant director o utilities. The University generates its own power for about half of the campus, with the other half supplied by the power company, Keve said. "That portion of the campus that has power supplied by the utility was blacked out," Keve said. "Once the problem was isolated, we were about to tie back into the utility's system. We don't foresee any more problems." Among the buildings affected by the power outage were DeBartolo Hall, the Joyce Athletic and Convocational Center and the Main Building. 

• 
Sophomore Sibling Money and waivers are due in the Sophomore Class Office, Room 213 LaFortune, to­day. Anyone who does not turn in the balance or waiver will be in danger of forfeiting his or her space for the weekend. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1770: The "Boston Massacre" took place as British soldiers opened fire, killing several people. 

• 
In 1933: In Germany, the Nazi Party won a majority of seats in parliamentary elections. 

• 
In 1946: Former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill during an address at Westminster College spoke of an "iro~ Curtain" stretching from the Baltic to the Adriatic. 

• 
_In 1984:_ ~he U.S. Supreme Court ruled public funds could butld a Nat1v1ty scene as part of an official display without violating Constitution's separation of church and state. 

• 
In 1988: Former U.N. Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim denied any part in Nazi war crimes in the wake of stories raising questions about his WWII service in a German army unit. 


FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy today with snow showers dimishing to afternoon flurries. Highs in the low to mid 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  34  20  
Atlanta  55  47  
Bogota  70  39  
Cairo  75  61  
Chicago  36  33  
Cleveland  34  30  
Dallas  60  41  
Detroil  36  33  
Indianapolis  35  34  
Jerusalem  68  45  
London  43  36  
Los Angeles  77  50  
Madrid  55  30  
Minneapolis  44  26  
Moscow  25  03  
Nashville  45  41  
New York  42  34  
Paris  41  32  
Philadelphia  40  37  
Rome  55  43  
Seattle  54  44  
South Bend  35 32  
Tokyo  55  41  
Washington. D.C. 42  39  


--------------------------·-------­
Friday, March 5, 1993 The Observer Page 3 
Six new members elected 
Smith: NAFTA not a solution 
By BRIAN SEILER 

to NO Board of Trustees 
News Writer 

Special to The Observer 
Six people have been elected to the University of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
The four elected to the regu­lar trustee positions are Kath­leen Andrews, vice president of Universal Press Syndicate; John Jordan, founder of the New York City investment firm and the Chicago-based holding company bearing his name; Phillip Rooney, president and chief operating officer of Waste Management, Inc; and John Sander, chairman of the board of governors of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 
Two others were elected to three-year trustee positions re­served for recent graduates of the University. They are Catherine David, senior mar­keting assistant for Target Stores in Minneapolis, and Marty Rodgers, Washington D.C., a legislative assistant in the office of Sen Harris Wof­ford, D-Pa. David is a 1985 graduate in marketing, and Rodgers a 1988 graduate in economics. 
Kathleen Andrews, who holds a 1963 master's degree from Notre Dame, was a co-founder with her late husband, James, of Universal Press Syndicate. She established the Andrews Memorial Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame. She has been a member of Notre Dame's advisory council for the Institute for Church Life. 
John "Jay" Jordan graduated from Notre Dame with a busi­ness degree in 1969. In 1982 he founded The Jordan Com­pany, a private investment firm. He has been a member of the College of Business Admin­istration advisory council. 
Phillip Rooney joined Waste Management in 1969 and held several executive positions leading to his current post in 1984. He has also served as a member of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Engineering. 
Jack Sander is serving a record seventh term as chair­man of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's board of governors. He assumed the chairmanship again in 1991. Sander is a 1968 graduate and benefactor of the Notre Dame Law School and has served on its advisory council. 
The nations of North America have a long way to go before they achieve an economic inte­gration similar to that of the European Economic Commu­nity, said Professor Peter Smith of the University of California, San Diego. 
The proposed North Ameri­can Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) treaty is only an agreement which does not offer any solutions for economic integration, Smith explained at a Thursday lecture. 
"The EC has created a super­state of hard regionalism," Smith said, which derives its efficiency from the relative economic and political parity which exists in Europe today. Another factor which makes the EC work is the large number of nations which comprise it, Smith said. 
"The fundamental elements of basic political composition do not exist in the Western hemi­sphere" to establish a working integrated organization like the EC, Smith said. Additionally, the United States, Mexico and Canada are wary of entering such an organization because the possibility exists that two of the three nations might "isolate the other," Smith added. 
The proposed NAFTA agreement is only a start, Smith said, and even then it might not survive Clinton's veto. In order for Clinton to sign the agreement, Smith continued, "it will have to have a veto rule." 
"I don't see any way of setting up a decision-making system the U.S. will accept that doesn't give the U.S. a veto," Smith said. 
Any scheme for the economic integration of North America will have to be politically favor­able to all nations involved, Smith said. crease its market potentials. 


"Political motivations are These clashes in political moti­essential to the formation of in­vations, among others, Smith tegrated schemes," he added. said, are what is blocking the 
formation of any North Ameri­
Mexico will want exclusive ac­can Community. cess to any agreement, he said, which means that in the long The immediate prospects, run Mexico will vote against then, for an integrated eco­other Latin American nations nomic plan for North America joining the agreement. The are slim, Smith said, for United States, on the other "without political bargaining, hand, will eventually want to you will not have a successful enlarge the membership to in-integration scheme." 

!CLUB 
1992-93 STUDENT LEADERSHIP AWARDS 
Juniors! 
Nomination Forms are now availableApplu todau for bartender positions! m 
Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune
Applications can be pirned up in the Student Activities Office, 3rd tloor Lt~Fortune Nomina{ion Deadline is March 24, 1993 
DctJdlinc: lltJrch 19, 199J 
SMC administator to leave College 
Special to the Observer national, and Non-Traditional 
Student Life (M.I.N.T.). During 
NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Saint the 1987-88 academic year, she Mary's Director of Admission chaired a task force on campus Mary Ann Rowan will leave the diversification that ultimately College at the end of the current proposed the blueprint for a academic year to accept a greater commitment to the dean's position with Loyola recruitment and retention of University in Chicago. young women of different races, 
Rowan has served as admis­ethnic background, nationalities sion director at Saint Mary's and ages at Saint Mary's. since 1981. During her tenure, she presided over a period of At Loyola, Rowan will hold the some of the largest single-year position of dean of enrollment enrollments in the College's development for the 16,000­history, a period which peaked student university, overseeing with a record total of 1,881 stu­recruitment and retention, dents in the fall of 1988. policy development, strategic 
Rowan was also instrumental planning, and research related in helping to establish the Col­to the university's lege's Office of Minority, Inter-undergraduate population. 
port directly to Rowan. She begins her new responsibilities June 1. 
Rowan received her bachelor's and master's degrees in education from Chicago State University and attended Loyola for a year as an undergraduate. 
This year, Rowan concludes a three-year term as chair of the Midwest region of the College Board, an association designed to expand educational oppor­tunities for students, high schools and colleges. She has served previously as a national delegate to the National Associ­ation of College Admission Counselors and recently was 

Additionally, Loyola's directors appointed to the College Board's of financial aid and un­Council on Entrance Services. dergraduate admission will re­



page 4 
Moot 
continued from page 1 
one wn couldn't have beaten." 
Having survived an initial qualifying round in the law school in November, McNitt, Plunkett, Buescher and Burnett won the right to represent Notre Dame in the regionals. In December, they were given an international law problem for which to prepare argu­ments. 
Dealing with two imaginary countries and a dispute over the profits of a pharmaceutical company, the problem required the team to make a detailed oral and a written response. 
The first area required the team to prepare a law brief, or "memorial" as it is called in the World Court, describing their position. The second facet of the competition involved preparing for an intense round of oral arguments, where the team split up, taking both the "applicant" or affirmative, and "respondent" or negative posi­tions. 
The different aspects of the competition make it much more interesting than a regular class, according to Plunkett. 
"It's not often you get to work with people on one problem and really tear it apart," Bur­nett explained. 
To write the brief and pre­pare for the oral competition, the members of the team were forced to make sacrifices. 
Since the written section of the competition was due on Jan. 11, the first day of the sec­ond semester, the team came back from Christmas break one week early. Preparation for the oral arguments took up to eight to 10 hours weekly since the start of the second semester, according to Buescher. 
But spending the time re­quired to prepare for the com­petition did not interfere with her other studies, Burnett said. 
"lt was a lot of preparation, but the extra work didn't really get in the way. Coming back early helped us put all our en­ergy into writing the brief," she said. 
There are many differences between the American justice system and the procedures of The Hague, or the International Court of Justice in the Nether­lands on which the competition is based, Plunkett said. 
"Every individual or corpora­tion who appears before the In­ternational Court of Justice must be represented by his or her country," he explained. 
International law is becoming increasingly important in to­day's world, Buescher said. 
"With companies involved in other countries, more and more you see international law involved with corporate law," she said. 
c;ates Toyota 
20% off to all students and faculty when seryicing your loyota a( Gates Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available 
to Notre Dame and 
University Park Mall. 
Call237-4005 
Oil Changes for just $20.55 
"lime what you dojJrm£." 
®TOYOTA 

Alumni 
continued from page 1 
organization which develops positive interaction between alumni and students through various programs," Shavers said. 
She and Francisco also serve as staff liaisons with the associ­ation's Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAND), a service orga­nization devoted to the needs of African-American students and alumnae. 
Shavers, a 1990 graduate, was a member of the Black Cultural Arts Council and worked in numerous volunteer organizations while majoring in sociology. Shavers was fea­tured in the 1990 edition of "Outstanding Women in 
Bomb 
continued from page 1 
office with the Ryder agent. 
The man wanted his $400 cash deposit back but was told he would need a police report of the theft, Mascitelli said. He said the suspect returned Mon­day without the police report and again was turned away. 
On Thursday morning, the man called the Ryder office ­and spoke with an FBI agent posing as a Ryder official, said Patrick Galasso, the truck rental agent. 
"He didn't have a clue as to what was going on," Galasso said. "He thought he was talk­ing to a Ryder rep." 
The man returned to the rental office, was given $200 back, and was arrested by eight to 10 agents as he left the office, Galasso said. 
~----­
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge ~uthentic Szechuan, 
.. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 

Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 
Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Bes 
Oriental Restaurant"

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by · 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 

Michiana NolV
(nex110 Randall's Inn ) 
for everyone interested in running for ~cifM@J®mrfr ~®o=D@cif® or @ffif=~@ [M) ~ M~ ~O'®~O@J®o=Dcif 
Tuesday, March 16th 7:30 Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune 
The Observer 
America." 
Francisco graduated from Notre Dame in 1989, having majored in sociology and starred in the defensive back­field of the University's 1988 national championship football team. He played professional football with the NFL's Washington Redskins and the CFL's Hamilton Tigercats. 
"They are two super young alumnae and we are pleased to 
"He didn't want to give up that $400. He just wanted that money," Galasso added. 
The man was accompanied by another man when he rented the truck, but was alone on subsequent visits, Galasso said. He said he didn't remember what the second man looked like. 
Both Mascitelli and Galasso said the suspect didn't behave nervously in any way. Mascitelli described him as short and frail with a beard and a thick accent. 
The suspect was affiliated with the Masjid al-Salam Mosque in Jersey City, N.J., where Sheik Omar Abdel­Rahman preaches, a Jersey City official said, citing reports from FBI agents to city police. 
Abdel-Rahman, 54, is a blind Muslim cleric living in self-im­posed exile in New Jersey after his acquittal a decade ago in Egypt on charges that he sanc­tioned the 1981 assassination of President Anwar Sadat. 
The cleric commands a fol­lowing in Egypt that analysts 

Frances Shavers 
have them," Lennon said. 
Many representatives have become assistant directors and then later moved on within the University, including Bubba Cunningham, presently assis­tant director of athletics and Maria Fuentes, currently assis­tant director of minority affairs. 
The promotions were an­nounced during last month's winter meeting of the associa­tion's board of directors. 
compare to that of the late Aya­tollah Khomeini in Iran; his message includes calls to eradi­cate anyone who stands in the way of Islam. 
El Sayyid Nosair, acquitted of the 1991 assassination in New York of Israeli right-wing ex­tremist Meir Kahane but im­prisoned for related crimes, also had worshiped at the Jer­sey City mosque. 
~\se..
s•d 

It's Your Birthday! 
SUMMER SCHOOL 
1993 

eorgetown 
UNIVERSITY 
I 
r---------, MAY 24...JUNE 18 PRE-SESSION JUNE 7...JULY 9 FIRSTSESSION JUNE 7-JULY 30 EIGliT-WEEKCROSSSESSION .._________J_ JULY 12-AUGUST 13 SECOND SESSION 
During the summer months Georgetown Univer­sity's School for Summer and Continuing Education offers more than 300 regular graduate and under­graduate courses for all studenrs. Visiting scudenrs from other colleges and universities can earn credits which are ordinarily transferrable w their own degree programs. Summer courses are taught by members of Georgetown's distinguished faculty and other visiting scholars. 
Enrollment is open to all students in good standing at Georgewwn and all other colleges and universities, foreign students with a TOEFL score of 550 or above (600 for linguistics courses) and individuals whose educational background and experience qualify them for" the courses thev wish to take. 
Catalogues along-with the application form are avail­able by phone request 202-687-5942, fax request 202­687-8954 or mail request to: Georgetown lJniversitv, SSCE/306 ICC, Washington, D.C. 20057-1075. . 
Information for 0 The r:nglish as{/ Frm'igui-<III[!,UfJ!f/' Program or 0 High Srhool Programs is available through separate brochures. Please check the appropriate box to receive information. 
------STATE ___ :1.11' ___ 
Grflry:_rlrlft"N I ·,rt'rl'!l'it.r t.' "" 1"1"'" '1flfHHIIIm/rllf{/intlllfit•r fllltrm IIJ,,IJ/ftllr11t '" rmpltJ\'1111'111 mu/ rJtlmt.Hitm• 
Friday, March 5, 1993 
Pro-life 
continued from page 1 
Student Affairs to plan events like this." 
O'Hara said that the Univer­sity is not able to handle a two week conferenc11 during the school year. 
"The University has in the past, and will in the future host pro-life conferences and events. Our reluctance has nothing to do with pro-life. We could just not handle the magnitude of the conference," said Garvey. 
"The Wanderer" advertise­ment claimed Notre Dame had strayed from its Catholic her­itage regarding abortion views and cited awarding Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan Hte Laetare Medal as portraying a double standard. 
"The double standard at Notre Dame has never been more obvious. The hypocrisy must be exposed and the truth that Notre Dame does not offer a Catholic education must be told," said CALL director Peter Beers. 
The conference claims to be the largest gathering of pro-life collegians ever. and is expected to attract around 500 students over a two-week period. 
Business 

Friday, March 5, 1993 page 5 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

FCC to enforce Children's TV Act 

Stud~: Florida medical care the most expensive 
•MIA I-Miami and Fort Lauderdale topped a survey of the most expensive areas in the country for elderly people to fall ill, and doctors here say that's because their patients are older, sicker and too quick to sue Researchers at the Urban Institute in Washington reported that the metropolitan areas with the highest Medicare payments to doctors are Miami ($1,874 per patient) and Fort Lauderdale ($1,636.) The cheapest was San Francisco ($872). The researchers weren't sure why the variations exist and said they found no differences in people's overall health that could explain their findings. But South Florida doctors said they serve more of the oldest, sickest patients because so many retirees settle there. Florida has about 
2.5 million retirees 65 or older. 

Economists oredicting beHer times 
•WASHINGT6N-Orders to U.S. factories declined 1.3 percent in January, the largest drop since August, the government said today. Much of the decline came in aircraft. The Commerce Department said new orders decreased to a seasonally adjusted $255 billion. However, the drop followed a 
6.1 percent increase in December, the largest in a year and a half. A rising backlog is a sign that the current factory work force is having trouble keeping up with the flow of orders and the companies may have to add to their payrolls. Economists are expecting manufacturing to be one of the economy's bright spots this year. With low interest rates, home s~les should be ~trong and that should help stimulate sales of appliances and furmture. 
Further signs that the economy is picking up. 
•WASHINGTON-A major real estate financing group predicts that mortgage delinquencies. which dipped to an 18­year low late last year, will continue to shrink this year as the economy grows and interest rates fall. According to a survey released Wednesday by the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. the delinquency rate fell dramatically to 4.24 percent during the October-December quarter. Herbert Tasker, the association president, said the improvement means "clearly the economy is picking up; the employment situation is improving; there's been a small gain in personal incomes." At the same time. mortgage rates have fallen to a 20-year low, prompting a new mortgage refinancings to lower monthly payments. Lower interest rates have reduced other debt payments. 
Administration plans for new tax revenue 
•WASHINGTON-The Clinton Administration plans to use new gasoline and cigarette taxes to financ~ federal p_r~gra~s. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena sa1d the admmiStratwn wants to use the entire 14.1-cent-per-gallon federal gasoline ta:x for highway construction, including the 2.5 cents now designated for deficit reduction. He didn't say how that $2.6 billion switch beginning in 1995 might affect the deficit. Three Democratic lawmakers said they were introducing a bill to raise the 24-cent federal tax on cigarettes to $1 a pack and use the money for health care. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-Federal regulators are seeking com­ment on whether local televi­sion stations are complying with the law when they claim that cartoon shows like "The Jetsons" and "GI Joe" are ed­ucational for kids. 
The Federal Communications Commission is wrestling with rules it established two years ago to enforce the Children's Television Act, which requires broadcasters applying for li­cense renewals to demonstrate how they have served children's educational needs. 
Activists who lobbied for the law have complained that stan­dards are too low. The House subcommittee that oversees television issues will delve into the matter at a public hearing next week. 
Meanwhile, the FCC says there has been no significant increase in children's pro­gramming since the rules came out and broadcasters "may remain uncertain as to the scope of their obligations." 
The commission announced Tuesday it would accept com­ment until April 23 on "how we might better guide broadcast­ers." 
Critics have complained that the educational programming section of the law is so vague that broadcasters could claim virtually any programming is educational. 
Activists concerned about the quality of children's TV pro­gramming have complained that broadcasters are making a joke of the law by claiming shows like "The Jetsons" edu­cate kids about the 21st cen­tury. 
The FCC asked commenters to say how the rules and poli­cies being used by the commis­sion to enforce the law should be changed to "more clearly identify the levels and types of 

China disputes Christopher's MFN 
BEIJING (AP) -The United States should not put conditions on trade privileges for Beijing, China said today, responding to indications the Clinton adminis­tration will link human rights to most-favored nation status. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Sunday the Clinton administration expects China to improve its human rights record if the United States is to renew the favorable trade conditions for Beijing. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Li Jianying said. "To attach any conditions to the MFN status will damage the normal eco­nomic and trade relations be­tween China and the U.S. and also the entire bilateral rela­tionship. 
"Therefore. it is unwise and unacceptable to the Chinese 

side," he said at a weekly briefing. 
The trade status, which must be renewed annually, grants Chinese goods the lowest pos­sible tariffs. The United States grants the status to most of its trade partners. 
Congressional critics of China have tried for the past two years to attach human rights conditions to its renewal but were overruled by former Pres­ident Bush. 
Christopher said Clinton, who criticized Bush's China policy during the campaign, favors conditional renewal. 
He said the United States con­siders China's human rights record poor. its treatment of Tibet improper and some of its trade policies abusive. 
Li accused the United States 
of trying to interfere in China's 
internal affairs and said 
Christopher made 
"irresponsible comments" that 
violated the norms governing 
international relations. 
He repeated China's position 
that the Chinese people enjoy 
fundamental rights and free­
dom, and that views on human 
rights can differ from country 
to country. 
The spokesman also took 
Clinton to task for calling the ·island of Taiwan "a country" in a speech at the American Uni­
versity last Friday. 
China considers the island a 
Chinese province that has been 
temporarily separated from the 
mainland by Beijing's rival 
government in Taipei. 

Bituminous Coal strike temporarily ended 
HUNTINGTON, W.Va. (AP)­Union and company officials welcomed an end to a month­long coal strike as bargaining­table intrigue and pre-walkout uncertainty resurfaced. 
Business owners also cele­brated the return to work today of 9,200 United Mine Workers members in five states. 
Union leaders reached an agreement Tuesday with the Bituminous Coal Operators As­sociation to extend an expired contract until May 3 while a new one is negotiated. 
The association represents 12 of the nation's largest coal pro­ducers. 

"By God, we won the battle. We got everything we wanted," said Bob Phalen. president of UMW District 17, which covers southern West Virginia and eastern Kentucky. 
Neither the union nor the as­sociation would say when they would resume negotiations. Terms of the extension were confidential. officials said. 
Both sides honored a "news blackout" during previous talks. The union went on a selective strike against Peabody Holding 
Co. subsidiaries on Feb. 2, the day after the contract with the coal operators group expired. 
The strike resulted from a dispute over the UMW's request for information on the companies' corporate structure. The union said it needed the information to negotiate a new agreement. 
Coal operators said they would provide the information if the union agreed to keep it confidential. The union said it could not agree if the informa­tion couldn't be used in court to enforce the resulting contract. 

programming necessary in the long term to adequately serve the educational and informa­tional needs of children." 
"There's no doubt that Congress and the activist groups are very interested in seeing this law enforced," act­ing FCC Chairman James Quello was quoted by The New York Times in today's editions. "If I were a broadcaster, to be on the safe side I'd have a show that was specifically meant to be educationaL" 
Rather than creating shows to fit the law's requirements. stations too often redefine exist­ing programs as educational, said Kathryn Montgomery of the Center for Media Education. The advocacy group surveyed 58 stations in various market sizes late last year to see what programs they were telling the FCC fit the law's requirements. 
One broadcaster, according to the survey, said the "GI Joe" cartoon show was educational because the heroes "fight against an evil that has the ca­pabilities of mass destruction of society," showing "social con­sciousness and responsibility." 
The FCC said it reviewed more than 320 television li­cense renewal applications to see how the broadcasters were conforming with the law. 
The commission said the sta­tions showed an effort to meet the terms of the law but that few new programs were "directed expressly at children's needs." 
The law was enacted to get television's help in improving children's reading and math skills and assist their under­standing of important events. 
It also put time limits on commercials during kids' shows. The FCC said that part of the law was quite specific and compliance rates have been high. 

of coverage for the long-term 
unemployed on a 66-33 vote~ 
The hectic day began with 
White House budget chief Leon 
Panetta spending more than an 
hour with House Democrats. 
hoping to nail down support for 
Clinton's package. 
When that closed-door ses­
sion ended, Panetta and law­
makers said they agreed that 
the administration would 
examine suggested additional 
cuts -if the proposals could 
get through Congress . 
"We don't want to slow down 
the whole package," said Rep. 
Tim Penny, D-Minn. "The pub­
lic will not he impressed if we 
bog down." 
But following the meeting. 
conservative and moderate 
Democrats headed by Penny, 
McCurdy and Rep. Charles 
Stenholm of Texas, agreed to a 
list of additional spending cuts 
they would like to see added to 
Clinton's plan. 
Their proposal would total $10 billion in additional cuts for fiscal 1994, which starts Oct. 1, and $100 billion in reductions over five years. It ·included $.25 •billion in savings in Medicare, in part by limiting benefits for Well-to;do people, and $23 billion by reducing federal income-support 
programs. 
Sabo has said he wants to 
add $3 billion to $4 billion to 
Clinton's cuts for 1994. His 
committee's Democratic 
members have started writing 
a budget that Sabo said the 
panel will . vote next 
Wednesday; A full House vote is 
planned the following week. 
McCurdy. Penny and the other conservatives told Foley that if many of their spending slashes are not adopted by Sabo's committee, they want to he allowed to propose their cuts when the House debates the budget. 
They said Foley made no commitmeiltl! but promised that Demooratic leaders woUld work with them. 
-------~---------------~-------------. 
Viewpoint 
page 6 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box a. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager .••••..Colleen Evale Viewpoint Editor.•................ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••••..Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ••••••••••...Michael Scrudato Production Manager •••...... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ••••••.•.•..Jahnelie Harrigan Systems Manager ..•••.••••...Patrick Barth Photo Editor .••.••....Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to ali members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to ali readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorMewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Research efforts do not de-emphasize Catholicism 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Professor Charles Rice's Editorial in the March 1 Observer decrying tuition in­creases and faculty research. My first point is a simple eco­nomic one. If we are to reduce tuition increases and at the same time turn away from re­search grants, where will the money come from? It seems only responsible when suggest­ing reductions in two major revenue sources, to suggest an alternative. 
Second, and more im­portantly, as a scientist I take serious issue with the notion that "research is only marginally related to educa­tion." In some disciplines this may be true, but in molecular biology, and in other areas of science and engineering, the pace of discovery is such that people not involved in research can very rapidly find them­selves left behind, unaware of and unable to teach current ad­vances. 
Moreover, if undergraduates are to have any opportunity to engage in research themselves. something that is crucial to making an informed decision about a career in science, we 
DOONESBURY 
50 THAT'S 1AJH81?13 I QAt1& (){)T{XII~ R&FO!?M. ~~ (j(JT 7V BReAK 7HI5 CYCUi CF PU&IC 
A?519TANC& /?8P/3N!?£3NCY.' 
/ 

must have a viable research enterprise in which they can participate. This means a strong graduate program and in most cases federal funding. Unfortunately modern research is expensive, as is modern education, both in terms of human effort and material resources. 
The idea that emphasizing research de-emphasizes Catholicism misses the point. If all we were doing here was teaching theology and turning out well rounded individuals, the idea might be reasonable. Presumably we are also preparing people for careers. For our students whose futures lie in the area science and technology, it behooves us to give them some exposure to research, and faculty members who are directly involved in the advance of knowledge. If they leave here equipped with these powerful tools of discovery, as well as a human and Catholic context in which to apply them, we will have achieved some margin of success. 
Mike Mossing Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences Mar. 3,1993 
Friday, March 5, 1993 


'Tis the SEAson to conserve 
Dear Editor: 
Few people, if any, doubt that a global environmental crisis is upon us and that the time to correct the problems of our planet is here. The debate about what to do to correct the problems of pollution, defor­estation, increasing population and others is now one of scale. Will we be able to strike a bal­ance between an adequate standard of living and the health of the global ecosystem? 
In the middle of the national and international political and scientific debate on environ­mental policy, the individual often feels powerless to con­tribute to any meaningful change. But the environmental slogan "think globally, act lo­cally" reminds us that it doesn't have to be that way. 
Global warming, although not in the front of everyone's mind this white February, is poten­tially the most devastating re­sult of our species' lack of con­cern for our environment. If the average temperature of the earth increases only slightly, drastic changes in local eli­mates leading to droughts, famines, more refugees, and war will be the result. But what can the average person do about global warming? One thing among many that we can do at the local level is to try to decrease our consumption of fossil fuels. major contributors to global warming, by saving electricity. 
To encourage students on campus to save electricity, ND Students for Environmental Action (SEA) is sponsoring an energy competition between the dorms. The dorm that saves the most electricity during March 

We AReN'TRICH EN0{)6H IN 
HUMAN !?eSa/RW 7HATW& 
CAN AFRJI?!J W /GNCJRb ANY CFaiR CIT!za./5! tut3 N~O 
7V tiFTUPAU AM!3RJCAN5! 
/ 
ANYMOR/3. Ye5,SIR, QUeSTIONS~ I HAVe ONe... 

will win glory, fame, honor, and some sort of prize from SEA lwe haven't figured out what yet, but we'll take suggestions). 
The winner will be deter­mined by comparing the amount of kilowatt hours of electricity used this March to the amount used last March. The dorm with the largest per­centage decrease in electricity usage will win, so that small dorms have no advantages over large dorms. The campus ­wide results will be published in 
· April, so you can compare yourself to your least favorite neighbor. Please do your part by doing 
such things as turning off the lights and TV when you leave your room, turning off the study lounge and bathroom lights when no one is there, and turning down your thermostat and wearing a sweatshirt. And hassle your friends and neighbors to do the same. Ultimately, the solution to our global environmental crisis will not be new world regulations, but a change for the better in the way that people think about the world and their place in it. 
George Smith 
Co-president of SEA 
March 1, 1993 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Scientific activity is the only one which is obviously and undoubtedly cumulative and progressive." 
G.Sarton 

Never say never. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
--~-----­
Viewpoint

Friday, March 5, 1993 page? 

Taxes mean more government 
The following story is based but it does rhyme," said Mark his debt. A month later he came on several fascinating news ar­1\vain. The history of the bud­back begging for more money. ticles from the British financial get deficit is no exception. A When she asked him what he weekly the Economist: The study by Ohio University needed it for, he responded, President, faced with spiraling economists Lowell Gallaway "Why, to pay off the Porsche federal deficits, meets with and Richard Vedder shows that you helped me buy last month." Congressional leaders to forge a between 1947 and 1983 every The moral of the story, of substantial deficit reduction tax increase of $1.00 has been course, is that a profligate will package. When the plan is followed by a spending increase always be in financial trouble, complete. the President unveils of $1.58. Even during the sup-no matter how much money he it in a dramatic nationally tele­is given. Like the young man in vised speech. The plan's three the story, our government's debt major themes are (1) "trimming Rick Acker problems will not be solved by the budget deficit by $40 In My Opinion giving it more money. Instead, billion" during the next fiscal we need to make real changes year, (2) cutting the deficit by in our government's spending "$500 billion over the next five posedly low tax eighties, gov­habits. years -without any gimmicks" ernment income increased Bill Clinton should stop wast­and (3) including "growth­sharply, rising 43.3% between ing valuable time and political 
promoting tax measures and 1981 and 1987 alone, according capital on raising taxes. In­budget process reform." to Treasury Department stead, he should promote two Many key Congressional statistics. History and eco­structural changes in the Democrats line up in support of nomics clearly show that the spending process: a balanced the plan, but Republicans federal government does not budget amendment and a line strongly oppose it. Federal Re­need more money, just more item veto. serve Chairman Alan self-restraint. Balanced budget amendments Greenspan comes out in favor Bill Clinton, unfortunately, is can be found in many state of the plan during Congres­neither an historian nor an constitutions. They require the sional hearings. Critics, how­economist. True, he has pro­government to balance its ever, argue that the plan will posed some spending cuts, but budgets over one or more cause a recession, will not seri­even he admits that the heart of years. If the budget becomes ously reduce the deficit, and re­his deficit reduction/economic unbalanced, the courts will lies too heavily on tax increases growth plan is sharp tax remedy matters, generally by instead of spending cuts. The increase. ordering cuts in government plan goes through Congress The problem which Clinton spending. These rules can be without significant changes. does not see is that giving the unpleasant, but they work. A These news articles are so government more money will balanced budget amendment to fascinating because they were not change its spending habits. the federal constitution would all published in 1990. George The following parable illus­probably not even have to be Bush proposed this bold deficit trates this point well: There was used more than once or twice. reduction plan and it has been a young man who bought a Court imposed cuts would in effect for over two years now. luxury condominium which he doubtless be more painful than As we all know, Bush's could not afford. His mortgage self-imposed ones, so the Clintonesque plan was a disas­payments ate up his savings government would avoid de­ter for America: We got the tax and drove him to the edge of ficits once it realized it had to. increases and the recession, but bankruptcy. His wealthy A line item veto would also be the deficit actually grew. grandmother took pity on him a useful tool. Budget bills are "History may not repeat itself, and gave him $20,000 to pay off always several thousand pages 
long and contain tens of thou­sands of unrelated "line items," many of which are pure pork barrel. 
The President, unlike Congress, is elected by the en­tire nation. As a result, he is less vulnerable to parochial in­terests than Congressional lawmakers and has a greater incentive to serve the whole country. The President is thus in the best position to determine which budget items serve the national interest and which serve purely provincial inter-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


ests. Giving him the ability to veto specific spending items without vetoing the entire bud­get bill would be a major step towards eliminating the pork from federal spending. 
In short, money is to the fed­eral government as whiskey is to a drunk. We can either try to dry out the drunk or, as Bill Clinton suggests, buy him a bigger bottle. 
Rick Acker is a 1992 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School and is currently doing research there. 
City dwellers should thank, not ridicule, suburbanites 
Dear Editor: rally around a cause? Anyone, communities instead of point in the history of the spoil your image of us, but 
On the 23rd of February, John who believes such should someone else's. Southern states. I will admit favorite music can be anything Connorton's piece about New definitely stay out of politics, Now, in an attempt to seem that this flag has unfortunately from Andrew Lloyd Webber or York City was published for the business, or any matter unbiased, John blamed his been used by several racial­Nirvana or the Grateful Dead or campus to consider (The involving the human psyche. friends for using a string of hatred groups who have Jesus Jones to Tchaikovsky. If Observer). It struck me as America's metropolitan cities supposed insults which are tarnished the honor of the flag. you don't believe that, I invite rather odd that a person who have always relied on people most likely to be John's own Through their use of the flag -you to see my compact disc supposedly loves his city so living outside its confines for views. I would like to address and idiotic ideas of racism, they collection. much could find an enormous existence. So, instead of each of these in an attempt to have taken away a symbol of "Deliverance-loving." amount to complain about; and suburban and country enlighten him. pride for the southern people. Personally, the guy with no at the same time, viciously lash communities investing their "Skoal-dipping", a practice Indeed, a few bad apples can teeth is disgusting, and I won't 
out at those of us in the resources into their own enjoyed by a small majority of spoil the whole bunch. even comment on the other majority who have paid for, and regional development, they individuals from all walks of "Gun rack-toting." This is part. Again, to destroy another continue to pay for through have instead been asked to life, including Troy Aikman of perhaps the most confusing myth John has: Yes, we have federal subsidies, New York support large cities who the Dallas Cowboys. Its not the statement to which some indoor plumbing, paved roads, City's upkeep. consistently ask for more each most graceful habit in the enlightenment is needed. electricity, and public health I guess that in many ways, I year in the name of their own world, but then polluting Actually, people tote guns but care and have had them only a progress. Doesn't it seem everyone's lungs with tobacco gun racks are not toted. slightly shorter time than in the 
represent the people at whom John was lashing out. I've never obvious that at some point in smoke isn't either. Instead, they are mounted in cities. We probably would have 
America's history, these "Rebel flag-waving." There the home or in an automobile had them sooner if we weren'tbeen to New York, although I've communities would look at this were four Confederate State as a safe place to store guns providing money to large citiesvisited many relatives who live 
just north of the city; but at the one-sided relationship and flags, although the one John between use. "Toting a gun­to get them first. Maybe John same time I've heard a lot realize that the only beneficiary implies is probably the "Stars rack" would entail the same should visit some of these about it. In many respects, I is the city ancl its own and Bars" or "Battle Flag." aspect of carrying a gym locker places before he draws ill­assume that New York is a lot population? Believe it or not, most across campus to take your founded conclusions on old like other metropolitan areas It's not that we have a Southerners are very proud of workout clothes to the Rock. Hollywood made movies. I've visited; Chicago, Los "callous disregard" for the large their region and like to use the "Mississippi River Pirates­"Hillbillies." I don't think that Angeles, Atlanta, and Houston, cities, we would just like to idea of "The South" and "The listening." Well, not all of us like Jethro, Ellie May, Jed, or but just with a few different invest our money in our own Confederacy" as a common that kind of music. Sorry to Grannie Clampett serve as 
suburban role


Feb.23,1993 


------------~--­

MARCH 5-14 

spring break 
thin 


NIGHT LIFE 
Beacon Bowl Bridget's Commons Corby's Club 23 Gipper's Lounge Jolly's Comedy Club Linebacker Madison Oyster Bar Midnight Sun Dance Club Midway Tavern Senior Bar 
MUSEUMS 

Classic and Antique Auto Museums Copshaholm House Museum and Leighton Gallery Curious Kids Museum 1839 Courthouse Museum Elkhart County Historical Society Museum Fulton County Museum and Round Barn Museum Hannah Lindahl Children's Museum Hoosier Valley Railroad Museum The Maritime Museum National New York Central Railroad Museum Old Lighthouse Museum Studebaker National Museum 
PARKS AND NATURE CENTERS 
Bendix Woods Nature Center Fernwood Botanic Garden Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Love Creek County Park Potato Creek State Park Potawatomi Zoo Rum Village Nature Center Woodlawn Nature Center 
boll 
s picks 
1. 
Falling Down (Forum, Scottsdale) 

2. 
Groundhog Day (Town and Country) 


3. 
Homeward Bound (Scottsdale) 

4. 
The Crying Game (Univ. Park East) 


5. 
Sommersby (Univ. Park West) 

6. 
Aladdin (Univ. Park West) 

7. 
Untamed Heart (Univ. Park East) 


8. 
Scent of a Woman (Univ. Park West) 

9. 
Army of Darkness (Forum) 

10. 
A Few Good Men (Univ. Park East) 


lanes,tra 
Spring break: The best tim 

By KENYA JOHNSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 

While some students are basking in the sun or riding the waves this spring break, others will be dedicating service to those in need and receiving valuable lessons in return. 
Along with the ever popular Appalachia project, students had the opportunity to partake in three other service seminars this spring break: a Cultural Diversity Seminar, Migrant Experiences and a Washington D.C. Seminar. Each will offer a new experiential learning opportunity, according to Jay Brandenberger, Justice and Peace Education coordinator of the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
"It's important to realize that these are not just service projects," said Brandenberger. "Each of these seminars are equivalent to one­credit theology courses. The students are learning from these experiences, and hopefully keeping their lessons with them throughout their lifetime." 
Appalachia is probably the most well known school break project among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. This year 100 students attended the fall break Appalachia trip and 91 are participating in the one during spring break. 
Rob Browne is this year's co­chair for the Appalachia program, along with Megan Swiderski. Browne participated in his junior year and has been involved ever since. 
Browne agrees with Branden­berger's claim that the trip is more of a learning experience than anything else. 
"It's not only about working on people's houses," he said. "The whole experience really makes you realize what is outside the realms of Notre Dame." 
There are seven different sites located in three southern states: Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. 
While Browne's team is helping out down south, another group of 
nHow wou 

'My dream spring break would be a week 
i in Memphis, Tennessee visiting Graceland; Home of the King.'
Thomas Mueller Notre Dame senior 
students will head east for Washington D.C. semi conference. 
The group, of about 20 will meet with prominent fi such as Congressman Roemer and attend events like 
U.S. Catholic Conference. listed on the itinerary are tours the White House and the Capi Building. 
"Basically we will be studying issue of poverty and democracy 



---~--~----~--~-------­
~ ~--~--~ ~-----------~~ 
page 9 

and automobiles 
Board of Trade, Dusable seum of African American ory, Puerto Rican Cultural and BucktownM'icker Park unity. They will also take of the Mexican Murals and inner-city neighborhoods partake iii a variety of dis­ranging from women's uo::ao::;uo•"' to the role of arts in 
change. x Montoya, a Notre Dame i""'"~"'• said he's looking for­to the trip. 
to see what's going on in se different communities , " Montoya said. Montoya d the trip as a cultural 
I can only hope that we can e together with the same ction for the situations," he 
e group of students will be the routine trip to Florida, eir tasks will not be the 
denberger explained that '""'""'" will spend two daysin the fields doing hands­work, two days learning about government agencies and one at the beach "reflecting on experience." e Niemann is the person hind this idea. "This was my mer service project last year I just loved it," Niemann "I really wanted others experience it so I brough the to the esc." Together with Brandenberger d Notre Dame junior Craig Niemann developed the 
's a whole different side of erica to be experienced," ...,u"•uu said. "It's learning about through real people, not or books. It's just a really 
place." And so are all the others. 
Students celebrate the spring in many places and many ways 
By BEVIN KOVALIK Accent Writer 
S 
pring fever has just been declared a campus-wide epidemic! Not to worry, because students are finding their own cure for this sudden mid-semester attack of wanderlust by packing their bags and planning a medley of excursions for spring break 1993. 
For some students the symptoms include an extreme desire to head for the beach and warm temperatures. "My goal for the week is to just get a tan," said Badin Hall junior Stefanie Thelian, who will fly down to Cancun, Mexico to meet her friends. 
As an alternative to the beach, the snow­capped mountains of the west seem to beckon skiers and snow bunnies. Having become so accustomed to the blizzard conditions of South Bend, several students have opted to spend their vacation on the slopes. Morrissey Hall sophomore Chad Sutcliffe and his friends will travel to Park City, Utah for some skiing. "We went to Florida last year, so this will be something different," he said. 
Returning home for spring break may prove to be an exotic vacation in itself as people who live in warm climates look forward to journeying home with their friends. Howard Hall freshman 
Kristi Broderick, resides in Kailua~ Hawaii, and will spend the upcoming week with her friends in her own tropical paradise. 
Saint Mary's Freshman Krista Masnica is originally from California, but she opted to vacation in Florida instead. "I am just looking forward to getting out of here," she said. "My friend and I decided to test the warm sunshine in at the opposite end of the country in Florida." 
With the intention of relaxing and catching up on sleep and studying, some students choose to remain on campus during the vacation. "I live in California and it is too far and expensive to fly home," said Todd Rho'dess, Flanner Hall freshman. 
Although places with sandy beaches or snow covered mountains remain popular destinations, many simply return home to visit with their families and friends. Others distract their friends at various universities around the country in hopes of experiencing a different social 
sPRING BREAK ouEsTIONNAIRE 
Do you plan to travel for Spring Break? 
If so, what is your destination? 
~·

DOther  .California  
IICaribbean  __  IIMexico  
Ocolorado  DFiorida  
With whom?  .Home  
.Oth • Ra:~om people  ~ •  OFamily • Roommates  

If no, why aren't you going to travel? 
~::h:: want to a ~:~~:g 
.Work .Notenough money
0 

How much do you plan to spend (incl. trans)? 

IIAverage=$522 

What accomodations you have planned? 
.Other ~; .Friends 
Ocamping 0Hotel 
IICondo IIFamily 
What do you plan to do? 
.Other Oorink ~ Oski 
0 Meet people IISightsee ~ . 
IllGo to beachIISleep IIScam 

hat means of transportation are you using . 
Oother 
Dear 
.Bus ~ 
IllPlaneIITrain 

What are the most important things to take after money and credit cards? 
Qcamera
.Other D Bathing suit e Osunscreen 
lllo IIsunglasses 
IIcondoms IllPortable CD 

Observer graphic 
atmosphere. 

Spontaneous road tripping can also remedy those suffering from spring fever. Just get in the car and drive until you run out of gas or until you meet some interesting individuals. "It depends on my mood," explained Lyons Hall freshman Keya Chongasing. "I might just pick up and go somewhere like Chicago or Atlanta." 
The opportunities are endless. Spring break provides students with a respite from their studies and allows them to catch some rays, frostbite, or just take it easy. 

-·­


Page 10 Friday, March 5, 1993 
There is no literary hero as great as Jesus 
Next to Jesus Christ, of course. I love the Roman Catholic Church most; and if the Church is the sacrament of His presence in the world, it could be hard to say where the love of Christ leaves off. and love for the Chureh begins. 
Sornetinws. as a Catholic in love with his Chun~h. I feel like a throwback to the dark ages b(~fore Vatican II. when every Catholic worth his salt believed that his Church had the God­given mission to witness to, and defend. the truth which makes men free, incarnate in Christ on whom the Gospel is centered. 
At Notre Dame, thank God, the priests and brothers of Holy Cross, celebrating the feasts and traditions of the liturgical year, keep us mindful of the tradition which is the Church's raison d'etre. 
If it weren't for the witness that the Holy Cross Community gives, we might completely lose sight of the fact that the campus we are standing on is holy ground sanctified for us by the generations of larger-than­life Catholics. now asleep in the Lord, whose blood is on the bricks. Notre Dame continues to have a silent majority of heroes and heroines whose service to God and mankind makes the place a moral miracle. 
Still, once you start listening the strident minority who politi­cizes this campus as though it were a political convention, you 
Who Me? 

I'm FINALLY 21! Patrick Russo, you're 21 years old today. 

Happy Birthday Son 
I Love You, Mom 

APPLICATIONS ARE AUA ILABLE IN THE S.U.B. OFFICE IN KERRY MCRRDLE•s MR I LBOH.
-·­
THEY ARE DUE FRIDRV MRRCH 5. THOSE SELECTED WILL BE NOTIFIED AFTER SPRING BREAK. THANK YOU FOR YOUR INTEREST!!
• 


Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a bone-(y 9od 
could Imagme, trom the dm 111 your ears, that you were attending a three-ring circus where the elephants, representing the old guard, stand inside the tent pissing out, and the gate-crashers, wishing to displace the ele­phants, stand outside the tent pissing in. 
As the Faculty Senate debates 
the Catholic character of Notre 
Dame, I wish they'd tell us if it's 
high-church Catholicism, or 
low-church Catholicism, they 
wish us to serve as a think­
tank. 
The Catholic Church has al­
ways taken pratfalls in preach­
ing truth and delivering grace 
to the Human Element; ·and for 
its pratfalls, it needs 
forgiveness. 
Now, at every turn, you can hear the Human Element saying, "We are the Church," and as church members, they've turned the Church inside out, as tbey try to drag it, kicking and screaming, into the brave, new world, where every claim the Church makes to mystery, mysticism, and magic is regarded by the Human Element as a pratfall for which 
Yes, Joseph 
In the old Church, on a clear day, you could see forever. That's because we believed in Jesus, as the bridge over trou­bled waters. In the brave, new world, once He's been de­mythologized, He becomes a charismatic teacher, in a class with Mohammed, Confucius, and Buddha. But which of them has said: "I am the Way, the Truth, and the 'Life"? 
On CNN, I see the dead bodies and scorched earth, and I'm tempted to think, "There is no God." Then, attending Mass, I look at the crucifix, and am present at the sacramental reenactment of Calvary. 
From this, I am able to under­stand, on days when my faith is strong, a fact of Christian life which lights up the sky: "He's on intimate terms with death and dying. As the Man of Sorrows, He's been there and back as the victim." Maybe the same is true of Mohammed, Confucius, and Buddha, but I don't know how. 
I'm not a scholar, so it's no big deal if I say that I believe that the Church today is what the community of believers, who 
Laundry Facility 
t'JD Shuttle Service 
City Bus Line 
2/10 of a mile from campus 


Affordable Student Housing 
Spring Break Loan 
• $300 minimum, $300 maximum 
• Deferred payments • 9.3% APR 
No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
"Good For You" 
G 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University 
worshipped Jesus after witnessing !lis resurrection, has become. If the Church is not His showcase, it would be in mankind's way as a stumbling­block; but as His mystical body, it's the gateway to life. 
Christ is the Lord of the Church, rich in grace and spiri­tual insight. The dissenting churches may be stiff-becked in refusing to acknowledge the Roman Church as their center­piece, claiming that the Bible is their sole rule of faith. Yet the doctrine of the Trinity, which so many of them profess. is Catholic doctrine which would not be easy to come by in a de­nomination starting from scratch to use the Bible as their sole source of faith. 
Jimmy Swaggart, who preaches good old-fashioned Holy Ghost revival, uses interesting metaphors, like "the high Sheriff of heaven," to describe the Paraclete, because he lacks the theology needed to preach the Trinity. In understanding the Holy Spirit as a member of the Godhead, Swaggart is in the Church's debt, but he's too ignorant to know it. 
Comparative religion tries to reduce the birth of Jesus to the level of a Greek myth, like Leda and the Swan. Yeats, using this myth in a poem, saw Zeus's visit to Leda "as an annunciation." "A sudden blow: the great wings beating still/Above the staggering girl. her thighs caressed/By the dark webs, her 
Now Accepting Applications 
nape caught in his bill/He holds her helpless breast upon his breast./How can those terrified vague fingers push/The feathered glory from her loosening thighs?/ ... " 
As a result of the union, Leda gave birth to llelen, who caused the destruction of Troy by her elopement with Paris, and to Clytemnestra, the other daughter of Leda and the Swan. Agamemnon was murdered in his bath by his wife, Clytemnes­tra. 
Do you really think Matthew or Luke had this violent rape in mind when they wrote of the tidings brought to Mary? 
World literature has produced no hero rivalling the greatness of Jesus, and the stage has pro­duced no tragedy that matches His passion The Christ of tho Creeds and the Gospels is thn Saviour whom the Church wor· ships as our peace and reconcil·· iation with the Father. Unless He is expendable, the Church which should be His servant cannot be expendable either. So why the cheap shots from Christians who should know better? 
Maybe as the Human Element, we should decrease. and He should increase. The Church, trying to catch up with our politically correct agendas. doubtlessly has pratfalls in store. Why should we be Catholics anyway. if we're convinced that the brave, ne\\ world has all the answers? 
Mendoza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of 
Saint Mary's 
272-7510 

Friday, March 5, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Notre Dame men's basketball team set for final game 

By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The good news is that things can't get any worse for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. They 


hit rock Denny Crum bottom in Wednesday night's 14-point loss to Valparaiso. 
Sunday's season-finale at Louisville gives them one last opportunity to make something of this season and begin the building process for next year. 
But they will need a much better effort than they have shown in recent weeks if they hope to beat the Cardinals. 
" A lot of people on this team need to reevaluate their heart," senior Monty Williams said after the loss to Valparaiso. "I don't see effort by everybody. This is getting pathetic." 
There isn't much time to re­verse the trend. And not many reasons to try. 
Losers of their last six in a row and 10 of their last 11, the Irish could be excused for just going through the motions, wating for the season to end. 
But there is more at stake than just playing out the sea­son. They have next year to think about. 
"We're not just going through the motions," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "We trying to build for next season." 
Freshman guard Ryan Hoover agrees with MacLeod's assessment. And he's optimistic about the future. 
"We're working for next year," Hoover said. "We'll be back." 
Louisville is already there. The Cardinals began the sea­son in the top 15 and were as 

high as No. 9 before an early season skid sent them reeling. Losses to Vanderbilt, Kentucky, Georgia Tech and Maryland in the first month of the season dimmed some of the big pre­season expectations. 
But their schedule eased when the Metro Conference season began, and the Cardi­nals rolled to their lOth straight Metro title, winning 10 of 11 conference games. 
They are currently ranked 22nd in the Associated Press poll. 
Clifford Rozier, a transfer from North Carolina, is Louisville's main threat, scoring 15.9 points per game and pulling down 11.7 rebounds. 
The Cardinals have two other starters with double-figure scoring averages, led by for­ward Dwayne Morton with 16.6 and guard Greg Minor at 14.2. 
CRUM COUNT: Louisville coach Denny Crum won his SOOth career game on January 7 as Louisville defeated South Florida 98-75. It was the eighth game of Crum's 22 season as a head coach. Only UNLV's Jerry Tarkanian, who won 500 in the 28th game of his 20th season, has reached the milestone faster. 
Mavs name Buckner coach, sign Jackson 
DALLAS (AP) -The Dallas Mavericks took two major steps Thursday toward rebuilding, signing top draft pick Jim Jack­son to a six-year contract and hiring former pro Quinn Buck­ner as head coach beginning next season. 
Jackson, who had vowed never to play for the Mavericks, will start at shooting guard Fri­day against Houston, said in­terim coach Gar Heard, who will remain in charge the rest of 
this season. 
''I'm sorry it took so long, but I'm looking forward to the future," said Jackson, who team doctors { 


said  is  in  Jim Jackson  
sensational  
condition.  
Jackson,  a  high-scoring  

playmaker from Ohio State, has a guaranteed deal worth about $20 million over six years, in­cluding a $1 million signing bonus he already has received, sources told The Associated Press. 
ft is the largest deal ever for a rookie guard and the most ever paid by the team, which is in dire need of help. The Maver­icks are 4-50 and are challeng­ing the NBA's futility record of 9-73 set by the 1972-73 Philadelphia 76ers. 
Jackson's first-year salary of $2.6 million -to be paid in full despite the fact he will play only 28 games -exceeds the amount given to No. 2 pick Alonzo Mourning of Charlotte and No. 3 choice Christian Laettner of Minnesota. 
To make room for Jackson, the Mavericks placed forward Brian Howard on the injured list with a strained left calf. 
The announcement of Jack­son's signing was a surprise because negotiations were thought to have broken off last Thursday when the trading deadline passed. 
"No one could know (we were still talking)." said Mavericks general manager Norm Sonju. "My secretary didn't even know what was going on." 
The secret was revealed about 15 minutes into a news confer­ence at Reunion Arena an­nouncing the signing of Buckner to a five-year deal. 
Buckner, who has never coached before, was fielding questions about the team's at­tempts to sign Jackson when Sonju said, "surprises are ev­erywhere," opened a back door, and in walked a smiling Jackson, holding up a Maver­icks jersey with his name on the back and number 24. 
Buckner and Jackson denied that they came as a package, but each stressed the impor­tance of the team signing the other as part of the Mavericks' commitment to winning. 
"We pretty much knew that Quinn might take the job," Jackson said. "Quinn's only comment was that he'd rather have me here, but that is a de­cision I have to make for my­self." 
Negotiations between Jack­son's agent Mark Termini and the team began to progress late last Thursday, about three hours before the trading dead­line. Jackson had said if he were not dealt by then he would re-enter the draft. 
Late that evening, the team budged from its standing offer of $10.8 million for four years and, for the first time, offered a six-year deal, as given to play­ers drafted around him, sources said. 
Details were ironed out over the next two days and Jackson said he agreed to terms Satur­day. Sonju flew to Jackson's home in Columbus, Ohio late Monday and finalized the deal. 

Hours earlier, Sonju had been in St. Louis polishing off nego­tiations with Buckner. He flew late Wednesday on team owner Donald Carter's private jet to Dallas from Denver, where he was preparing for a telecast. 
Buckner, 38, a college stand­out at Indiana before a 10-year NBA career, is an analyst for NBC and a commentator for Minnesota Timberwolves games. He will become the fourth. Mavericks coach in the team's 13-year history. 
He was first approached by the Mavericks last summer, then contacted again following the Jan. 13 firing of Richie Adubato. 
The team's interest in Buckner can be traced to his friendship with Rick Sund, Dallas' vice president of basketball op­erations. The two have known each other since both were in the Milwaukee Bucks' organi­zation in the 1970s. 
Buckner said his wife, Rhonda, has told him for the last five years he should coach, but he has been reluctant, in­stead pursuing business inter­ests. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports women's safety and self-defense classes are beginning March 16 from 5-6:10 p.m. at Rockne Memorial. Call 631-6100 for more information. 
Aikido Club will have praet~ci} from 6·8 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. Beginners are welcome. 
Sailing Club meeting Tues. March16 at 7:00p.m. in the FarleyHall Basement.All welcome to attend, no experience necessary. For more info call Tucker Snedeker at 634-1765. 
Conserve Energy: turn out your lights 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST:  ID case on Tuesday, March  Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT YEAR?  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
NOTICES  2. It was lost in or near the second floor of the library. If the case or  House now for 93-94 school year 234-1886  NEED FURNITURE? WE HAVE:  HPC PRESENTS:  Congratulations to the Saint Mary's swimming and diving  
any of its contents have been  BEDS  Buy a Domer/Bail a Domer  team on another successful  
TYPII'JG 256-6657  found, please call Kelley at 273­ COUCHES  Day  season! This year was a blast­ 
2990.  6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM  TABLE  you guys are the best! It's sad  
Dissertations, Theses,  HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.  5 CHAIRS  Put a pal in jail, or buy the services  to be ending, but fear not-the  
Term Papers Word Works Typing Service  WANTED  AVAIL NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL272-6306  ENTERTAINMENT CENTER DRESSERS  of your favorite campus celebrity_  "pennis" will rise again next year! LOVE,  
277-7406  AND A DESK  March 18, 1993 in LaFortune  Jen (tramp, puke, Dutch, Gussy,  
CALL 273-2810  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  etc.)  
Bring your Spring Break film to the  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  
Gift Stand in the lobby of the Morris Inn for processing. Lowest rates on  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID  NEED A QUIET PLACE TO WRITE YOUR BOOK OR THESIS? Full Eqp  PERSONAL  Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential  p.s. We'll miss you:  
campus. Free doubles everyday.  CALL 1-800-786-8373.  Cottage Palisades Pil Near So  counseling at no cost to you. For  Danahy (good luck in the real  
Mon. -?Fri. film left by 10:00 a.m.  Haven Ml (708)446-6118  HELPI HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  more information call Nancy at 232­ world)  
will be back the next day by 1 :00  Adoption-Active, Young couple  HELP!  5843.  Smigs (good luck in grad school)  
p.m. Drop off on your way to work  wants to adopt your bundle of joy.  Desperate female seeking ride to  Katie (have fun in Ireland)  
or class and pick it up the next day  Love and Laughter guaranteed.  ROOMMATE by Apr 1. Castle  D.C. area for spring break.  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  
on your way home. Why pay more  Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628.  Point . Fern, non-smo.  Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call  make dreams for your baby come  Congratulations & Good Luck Dave  
for less? Try us, you'll like us I  140/mo+ut. New carp, cath. ceil,  Leah @ 284-4308 and leave  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  Kinney! You should be OK despite  
Open 7 days a week 7:30a.m. ­ CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn  1ft. 271-0801  message_  city; summers by the beach; your  the fact that you're a guy.  
6:30p.m.  $2,000+/month + world travel  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  Big "0" women rule.  
ILOST & FOUND I (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No  Newly Remodeled 5br. house for rent  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call  Love, Kelley LEAVING YOUR CAR AT NO FOR  
experience necessary. For  Close to ND, all appliances,  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  Franny or Stephen collect.  THE SUMMER? NEED A  
FOUND: SET OF KEYS AT KNOTI- employment program call  security system, etc.  (212)369-2597.  CARSITIER? CALL 4-4092. WILL  
BADIN FORMAL ON 2/26. CALL  1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584.  $650/ mth. 232-8256  Hey dork have a great spring  PAY$$$.  
ANNE MARIE  break! Soak up some rays for me,  ADOPTION: A loving happy home,  
4-4700.  50,000,000 babies  agd stay away from the sharks.  financial security, and educational  ••••• HAPPY BIRTHDAY •••••  
2 br. Apts for rent  opportunities await your newborn.  ..•••MOLLY LAWRENCE •••••  
Lost: three keys on a NIKE key  NEED ride to Daytona beach  totally remodeled with new  Pretty Brown Eyes:  We can help with your expenses.  
ring. If found please return to  4 break w/some girls. HELP erica  appliances and lots of space  Quit breaking my heart.  Please call us collect: David and  We miss you,  
217 Flanner or call  X1004  #2206  truly the best price in town  Rosemery (919) 288-4490 Let's  Kathy & Molly  
Call us and compare  To the Alumni Hockey Team & Fans,  help each other.  
Lost: REX'S KEYS  Summer Girl Needed -Chicago  232-8256  Take back your weenies, and hang  WANTED: 20 yr old Assistant News  
*41613  North Suburbs. Live In and care for  up your sticks!!  CANCUN FOR $99! Roundtrip  Editor, for discrete relationship and  
Lost-Elaine's keys and ND key  1 ,6, & 10 year old boys. Prefer Non­smoker with Drivers License. Salary  FOR SALE  airfare $99, complete packages from $199! Call STS@ 1-800-648­ Neurobiology experiment.. -Happy Birthday, again, MLE!  
pouch with 10, Detex,etc. Please  plus Room & Board. Interested  Mr. & Mrs. Gamble, Jason and  4849  
call X2461.  person call 708-295-3493.  Megan-Thanks for the card, that  Somebody loves his spaghetti. I'd  
STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette  was so nice! I'm not planning on  MATOLA-FOOD-PRODUCTS-ARE­ rather just lick jellybeans. Bye, p.b.,  
FOUND: MAN'S WATCH OUTSIDE  FOR RENT  recorder, turntable, am/fm radio, graphic equalizer. Good condition.  flying off another wardrobe anytime soon. Hope all is well in  INDORSED-BY-THE "IRON MAN TRIATHLON" FOR  I'll miss you  
OF LOFTUS LAST WEEK. CALL  Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy  Philadelphia. Thanks again! -Kira  INFO CALL "KM-CENTER" 291­ 
MIKE AT 634-1033 AND IDENTIFY  at 233-2407.  2964  


------------------~-------------------­

page 12 The Observer Friday, March 5, 1993 
Grace defeats Alumni to claim IH hockey title 
By TEDS PETERSON 
Sports Writer 
When the Grace hockey team and their fans returned from the championship game versus Alumni for Sunday night mass, the first song was dedicated to the team. 
It was "Amazing Grace." Amazing, indeed. 
(;race (8-0) capped off an "amazing," undefeated season with an "amazing," near-perfect performance Sunday night, resulting in a 4-0 victory over Alumni (5-1-1). 
The game was a battle be­tween the solid, three-line depth of Grace and the smaller, expnrienced Alumni squad. As often happens in this league, the deeper team -the one with fresher legs in the final minutes -won out. 
The game was extremely competitive in the first ten 

Fencers attempt to qualify for the NCAAs 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish fencing teams travel to CleVIlland State this weekend for the NCAA Regional Qualifier. The top two teams in each weapon automatically qualify for the NCAA Championships in Detroit, Mich., on March 26-31. 
Also to be determined at this meet are the contestants for the individual portion of the NCAA Championships. Notre Dame is expected to qualify a number of fencers for the individual events. 
Leading the way is senior foilist Jeff Piper, winner of last weekend's Midwestern Inter­collegiate Championship. Stan Brunner, Rian Girard, and Jordan Maggio also have solid 
Alternative Lifestyles 
Meeting others like yourself isn't always easy. How can you lead a loving and fulfilled life without· making a public statement! We offer a confidential network through which you can get to know others like yourself without leaving the privacy of your own home. Write for free information. 
AlterNet 
18115 State Rd. 23, #238 South Bend, IN 46637 
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 
minutes, when Alumni's first line, matching up evenly with Grace, was fresh enough to keep things tight. But with only two skaters to substitute in from the bench, fatigue quickly set in for Alumni. 
At this point, junior Paul Fer­guson jammed in a loose puck off a rebound to put Grace on top 1-0. Falling behind against a team with Grace's depth usually spells trouble, and this situation was no different. 
Late in the first half, Alumni looked to even the score, but Grace goalie Tom Lischke turned away Alumni's Matt Cronin with a wonderful save on a breakaway. 
"Matt's a big source of our of­fensive firepower," said Alumni captain Jim Kuser. "Usually, if he's on a breakaway like that, it's a goal nine times out of ten. That save [by Lischke] really hurt us." 
Five minutes into the second 
chances to qualify. 
For the epeeists, senior Geoff Pechinsky and junior Greg Wozniak will hope to repeat or better their performances of last weekend, which would qualify them for NCAAs. Senior Per Johnsson has been battling illness recently and if healthy should also qualify. 

Senior sabreman Bernie Baez was recently diagnosed as having a broken bone )n his foot, but will be able to fence as long as he can stand the pain. Chris Hajnik and Chris Mc­Quade also have chances to qualify. 
For the women, freshman 
Comer of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 
The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Literary Critic Movie Critic Music Critic Weekly Columnist 

lease submit a one-page statement of intent, resume, and a writing sample (does not have to be published} to Kenya Johnson by 9 p.m., Thursday, March 4, 1993. For more information about any of the positions call Kenya at 631-4540. 
half, freshman Pat Casey scored to up Grace's lead to 2-0 and establish their momentum in the second frame, as well. Grace's swarming defense took over from there, as opportuni­ties for Alumni to get back into the game were few and far be­tween. 
"They played great team de­fense on everybody. Offensive tactics that worked for us all season long weren't successful against them at all," explained Kuser. 
Grace used crisp passing to pad their lead late, as Kevin Baumert fed Foley on his sec­ond goal and then Dave Kisch -named game MVP by captain Karl Nass for his "hustling and digging in the corners" -cen­tered beautifully to Baumert for the final goal. 
Both captains agreed that the score could have been a lot worse if not for a great perfor­mance by Alumni's goalie, ju-
Claudette DeBruin should qual­ify along with senior Kathleen Vogt. The status of freshman Mindi Kalogera is in doubt due to illness. 
The men's foil and epee teams are ranked first in the region, so· if they fence to their capability, both should qualify. The sabre team also will need to fence their best to make NCAAs. 
The women's team will have tough competition to make the NCAAs. The women fell to Ohio State during the regular season, but finished ahead of the Buckeyes last weekend to earn the top ranking. 
nior Ben Cain. 

"I take my hat off to him. We really shelled him with shots on goal all night long," stated Nass. "That game could have ended up 10-0." 
"Ben has come up big for us all year long, and tonight was no different," explained Kuser. "I think that this was his best game." 
The game had all the intensity and fan support of a varsity football game, as members of both dorms packed the stands at the JACC ice rink. The crowd actually played a con­crete role in the game, as Alumni received a two-minute penalty because some of their fans, coming from a tailgater outside, threw hamburgers and hot dogs onto the ice. 
"Both dorms had bands come out. It was great to see them get into the spirit," said Nass. "Our team was pumped up be­forehand, but the fans really 
Bears, McMichael far apart 
CHICAGO (AP) -Free agent Steve McMichael has asked the Chicago Bears to triple his salary, but the team isn't rush­ing to sign its top sack artist for that price. 
In figuring the $1.75 million a year saiary request Wednes­day, agent Larry Bales said he tacked a 20 percent increase onto the average salary of the top 10 defensive tackles in the NFL. 
"His offer surprised me, yeah," said Bears finance offi­cer Ted Phillips. "We did not give a counter offer." 
Instead, on the third day of free agency, Phillips got on the phone to other free agents the 
Sprite: 
You ·re 20 years old, and with your qualifications, you should have no problem finding a job in the house­keeping industry. 

Jelferaon 
I 

~ 
Main & Jefferson 
Hours 

Mon-Sat 11 a.m.-llp.m. Not a Franchise • A Family Sun 4 -9 p.m. Owned Business 
257 .-1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs •Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs 
For Fast Delivery Call273, 2EAT 
$2 off any pizza with Student ID 
Bears have targeted. 
"We are protecting ourselves in case Steve leaves," Phillips said. 
McMichael's 10 1/2 sacks led the Bears in the season and he ranked fourth in the league among defensive tackles, but the Bears did not shelter McMichael from free agency. 
Phillips met in Chicago Wednesday night with quarter­back Jim Harbaugh's agent. 
Harbaugh, cornerback Le­muel Stinson and fullback Brad Muster also are testing the free-agency market. 
kept our confidence up during the game." 
After the game, Kuser had nothing but praise for thll champion Grace squad. 
"They definitely had set plays. They had breakouts and control at center ice. No other team we played all year could do the things they were doing. Grace was just a superior team." 
Comments like this will prob­ably not be uncommon in the future, as only three members of the deep Grace squad gradu­ate this year. 
"We had seven or eight solid freshmen come in this year," stated Nass, who graduates this May. "These guys are going to be great in the next two or three years." 
Who knows. Perhaps "Amazing Grace" will become a fixture at post-game mass for years to come. 

Friday, March 5, 1993 The Observer 
page 13 

:·····~ 
Spring Preview------'·~.,.------­
--------'·J.\,;1....------Saint Mary's 
Belles' track moves outside 
By BETH REGAN Sports Writer 
After two strong perfor­mances in the indoor season, the Saint Mary's track team is 
• off a good start in their outdoor season. 
Larry 

"We didn't Szczechowski come out on top as a team," said junior co-captain Katie Linehan said of the indoor season. "But many personal bests were accomplished." 
Sophomore Joann Weed broke Saint Mary's indoor shot-put record with a 31' 9" throw at the opening meet in Chicago on February 13. 
"I am excited about this sea­son." said Weed. "Hopefully I'll be able to break the outdoor record too." 
Junior Christy LaBarbera also set a new Saint Mary's record this season with a time of 9.5 seconds in the 55-meter hurdles, breaking the old 
F~: 5:15,7:15, 9:15 li'!] Sat-Sun: 1:15,3:15,5:15,7:15,9:15 ~ 

record by two-tenths of a second. 
"Our team is really strong this year, we are focused and have a lot of potential," LaBarbera said. 
Head coach Larry Szczechowski leads the Belles along with new distance coach John Biek. 
"Biek has been a great.ddi­tion to our team," said Linehan. "A lot of the success we have had so far has come from him." 
Senior Cheryl Fortunak returns as Saint Mary's record-holder in 800 meters and a member of the record­setting 4X400 meter relay team. 
After a great freshman season, Darcy Bishop returns in the 50, 60 and 100 meter dashes. 
The Belles try to defend their championship at the Wabash College relay meet on March 20. 
Fri: 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 rii1 
Sat-5111: 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 t!!J 

·iL s11arNIJiijr,s·•·••·••••••••
.SOFTBALL

·.······•··(iSCHEDlJLE <•.·.·· 


Ma~~~ AlvemiaCoiCitlrd•. R~i~h~ott Marcf1 a Anqersq11 Univ.ISLNornertColl. Ma«;flJQ ~ryvilh~ UtiiV~fttha~ ~ollege
MarcliJ1.··Potrtt Park College/Loras Colt Marc11J.9 .SAINTFMNCISCO~L
Marcfi 20 alWheatrin College ··· ·..·•·:·•·: · 
March 23 at COncordia U11iverslty ·. MarGI) 26. ANDERSON UNIV.....•••...:..: Marcll~t HbPECOLl~E > < April 3·· · . ·• NO; CENTRAtCOLLEGE 
ApriLS . at CalVin Col1e!JB. .·:·••.• · APtll 8 .·· .MAt)ICHESTj3RqOLL •• < April17 .at ILBenediptine College April21·.·· at6!ltbe1 College · Apri.!·Z.... 4·· Alt.·.··IJfl ·. ·. ••.o....f····C· .. i@!IO...··.•.·.•.•.· ••·
.. ·.· ·. .... MI.····.rsi.IIY. ..~ .. ··h

APril26 ( KA!At:MZOO COU.t~S > tial for the team to play well in order to establish themselves as a contender for a national bid. 
Belles 
continued from page '16 
Despite the lack of outdoor play, Bogataj feels that the team should come away with at least four wins. "If we are going to be successful, we have to learn from our mistakes early so we can correct them." she noted. 
Richter agrees, stating that "it will be nice to get out of the stale indoor environment, and to get back into competition and to learn to play together as a team." 
Given the high level of the competition that will be present at the tournament, it is essen-

Ose Water Sparingly 
r----------------, 

I 
I I 232-9299 
I 

''The Shirt'' '93 
Anyone interested in coordinating "The Shirt" for the 1993 football season sign up for interviews in the 
Student Government office, znd Floor, Lafortune. 
Interviews will be Monday evening, March 15, starting at 10 p.m. 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
sate for Darby's absence. Cos­grove will be paired up with Ayres, who is taking Darby's place, in number one doubles. Cosgrove and Ayres played to­gether last year at number two doubles. 
"The team's strong and ev­eryone is moving up", said Cosgrove. 
Hrycko and Smiggen will be competing together at number two doubles. And rounding off the doubles play at number three will be Kloepfer and se­nior Shannon Me Ginn. 
"We need to stay healthy and have a good season," said Nester. 
The first home match for the Belles will be March 31 when Kalamazoo College visits An­gela Athletic Facility. 
SAINT MARY'S TENNIS SCHEDULE 
March 7 Guilford College March 8 Haverford CoiiJRoanoke Coli. March9 Bryn Mawr Cou ./Ursinus Coli. March 10 Averett College March 12 Washington University March 18 a~ Calvj ~ College · March 20 atBelottCotl~e March 31 KALAMAZOO OLL AprilS HILLSDALE COLL April? .atValparaiso University April14 ·UNIV. OF CHICAGO April15 Midwest Invitational at Aprill7 Univ. ot Wisconsin-Madison April20 at Albion College April24 WHEATON COLLEGE 
DEPAUW UNIVERSITY April26 HOPE COLLEGE 
SAINT MARY'S TRACK &FIELD SCHEDULE 
February 13 at University of ChicagoFebruary 27 at Huntington College March20 at wabash CollegeMarch 27 at Wheaton CoHege April3 at Manchester CollegeApril10 at Little State Aprll17 at Carthage CollegeApri124 at Elmhurst College 
Special to The Observer 
Last night's hockey game versus Bowling Green was canceled due to the inclement weather that prohibited Bowl­ing Green from makin" the trip. The game will be ma~lc up on Sunday, March 6. 

Panama City  Silt*  
kliH  $t4t*  
caracas  $159*  
Guatemala  $165*  
Quito  $169*  

•Fares are each Wi1'f from Olicago based on a roundtrip purchase. Taxes oot induded and restrictions apply. Call for otller · destinations, both one Wi1'f and rOIJldlrip. 
Council Trawl 
1153 N. Dearbom St., ~d ftoor 01icago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Maga1ine 

page 14 The Observer March 5, 1993 
acrosse team heads east for important break games 
By KEVIN McGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame laerosse team heads into spring break in a positive frame of mind, eoming off an impressive vic­tory over Canisius last weekend and a solid week of practiee, during which they handily de­feated Dennison, a Division III powerhouse, last Sunday. 
Coaeh Kevin Corrigan looks forward to the trip with a great deal of enthusiasm. "This will be a ehallenging trip for our team because we face three quality opponents that will re­ally test us, but they are three gamns that I feel we can win," he said. 
The 22nd-ranked Irish jump right into things with a game against #21 Hofstra on Satur­day in Hempstead, N.Y. This will be an early test to see how the team plays against the type of eompetition they will face the rest of the season because their schedule really heats up from now on. Last year the Irish de­feated the Flying Dutehmen 12­9 at Notre Dame. 
Three days later the Irish will face Mount St. Mary's in Emittsburg. Md. Last year the Irish easily won by a 13-3 seore. The Irish finish off the trip with their third game in eight days versus the University of New Hampshire in Boston on Saturday, March 13. 
The Wildcats are ranked #25 in the country and will provide another stern test. This will be the first meeting between the two teams since 1985, when the Wildeats won on their home field, 12-3. 
The Irish will once again be led by the play of junior at­tacker Handy Colley, who ex­hibited his talent against Cani­


..,vu•r-e A §ur-e Winner-
When .,.,()U LI-ve At til£k()O' Vlllaue 
§ave S24()!
Hurry ln. For a limited time on a one-yesr /esse. 
Efficiencies from only $250 
1-Bedrooms from only $265 
2-Bedrooms from only $325 
• 
Beautifully undsceped • 24-hour Emergency Grounds Maintenance Service 

• 
Pool &Clubhouse • Planned AcUvltles 

• 
laundry Facilities • Free Aerobics 

• 
Balcony or PeUo • Close To Shopping 

• 
Air CondiUonlng 



What are you waiting for? Call or stop by today and we11 show you why you can't lose at Hickory Village. 

272-1880 
rHlCKORij 
DlLLAGEf! 
Mon.-Frt. 8-6, Sat. 1o-4 & Sun. 12-4 
sius with 4 gaols and 3 assists. He has a strong supporting cast that includes junior attack­ers Steve Manley and Robbie Snyder and midfielders Willie Sutton, Billy Ahmuty, and Rob Tobin. 
The Irish defense will be anchored by the starting line of sophomores Mike Iorio and Billy Gallagher and junior Garrett Heilly. In goal, Coach Corrigan will turn to Hyan Jew­ell, Chris Parent, and Patrick Finn to turn opposing shots away. 
The yearly spring break trips the lacrosse team embarks upon have not been very kind to Notre Dame in the past, with the Irish going only 1-11 over the past four years. These poor performances of the past, how­ever, do not concern Corrigan. 
"This team handles them­selves with more poise and a sense of themselves, at this point in the season, than any other team I've had-they're further ahead than usual." 
Corrigan says he is going to employ a little different strategy this trip, "We're going to ask the kids to concentrate on lacrosse for only three hours a day. We want them to relax and remember that this is spring break for them also." 
Hopefully this plan will keep the Irish from falling victim to the spring break bug that has sidetraeked them in the past. If they can successfully accom­plish this, their upward climb in the polls may see them crack the top twenty after their re­turn. 

Peterson will take shot at NCAAs 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
Though the Iowa State Invitational appears on the Notre Dame women's track team's schedule, only Erica Peterson will be travelling to Ames, Iowa, to represent the team on Saturday. 
"It is true·that we have the Iowa State Invitational this weekend, but we're only sending Erica," said Irish coach Joe Piane. "Her purpose for going is to try to qualify for next week's NCAA Championships." 
Peterson, a freshman, has had a considerable impact on the Notre Dame sprinting program, winning numerous events over the course of the indoor season. She will be competing in the 800-meter run tomorrow, a longer race, but one she has competed in earlier this season. 
For the rest of the team, last weekend's Alex Wilson Invita­tional marked the end of this year's indoor season. Karen Harris was the only Irish ath­lete to win an event, taking first in the shotput over teammate Rachel Kavanaugh. Other impressive efforts were turned in by distance runners 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
SATURDAY 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
vs Evansville 
Irish last regular season home game 
2:00PM JACC Arena 
Sarah Riley, Emily Husted, Stefanic Jensen, and Eva Flood. 
The Irish will now be starting the outdoor season, a season that Coach Piane feels will open the doors for new success. 
"The great thing is that you have a lot of longer distance races outdoors, which is what we are more geared toward," commented Piane. 
Notre Dame's outdoor season will begin March 20, as they travel to Tallahassee, Fla., for the Florida State Invitational. 
Today 

Friday, March 5, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER 
• LIT GO! lET 

GO! ~00'1/£ 00\ 1\-\t. WRONG G\J'(.' I't<\ CAL'Ht-1.' i \)\\)~T 
DO l'\t-I'(I\-\IN6 WRONG.' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Da-(guitar device) 5Santa-, Calif. 
o Like hand­me-downs ·... Airplane's­strut 5 Was out of sorts 6 To be, in Toulon 7 Kind of bath 
a-Janeiro 9 Come in second 
o Puzzler's puzzling A-words 
3 Japanese sash 4 Restaurant offering 5 Rubberneck's activity 

yP~"C~_s~ 
. 
() .,-... 
29 Calorie burners 33 "The..Way We 
34 Pretentious 37 Like Windsor wives 38 Puzzler's puzzling E-words 41 Negative 
particle 42 Liquid defense 43 Pisano's pot 44 Clerical gowns 46 Tangled or 
untangled 48 Period after soir so Tibetan gazelle 51 Puzzler's 
puzzling !-words 59 Verve 
&oSwap 

61 San--, Italy 
62 Arrow poison 
63 Baseball 

statistic 64 Mild expletive 65 Biggers's 
middle name 66 Comeback 67 Annapolis inst. 
DOWN 
1-Nostra 2 Former Albanian president 3 Rock: Comb. form 4 Puzzler's puzzling 0-words 5 Slaughter was 
one 6 HalfofCVI 7 "Thanks-!" a Do a beaver job 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 



.. 
anew 

26-Marie, R&B 39 Boredom 53 Stadium section 9 Astaire's sister 
singer 40 Unsteady 54 Noble title et al. 
27 V-shaped roof 45 Maclaine, to 
55 Adored one
10 Puzzler's 

gutter Beattypuzzling 56 Cash and cloth 
28 Bleak 47 Tenn. native 

U-words finishers
300fa 
49 Earth, to Livy~~~ 11 Portico nitrogenous 57 Middle East 
51 Footnote abbr. 
~~+=-flllllllli.ii.ER~C:-i 12 Gaelic 
compound sultanate
52 Department of ~~~~ 13 Brocket or 31 Mailer's output France sa-bene

muntjac 32 Ecclesiastical 21 Biblical queen assembly ~::.:+::+:::+.78-:-t.:::-1 mother: II Kings 35 Confucian Get answers to any three clues 
18:2 virtue 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 

~=+::-+.::-! 22 Inner self 36 A.D. MCMXCIII, 
5656 (75¢ each minute). • 
~o;;;;..&..;;...L,;;;...a....;..J 25 Pledge sacredly e.g. 
from su·B........... 
ffi[]JOU~~ ~@a~ ~ Overnig~t Easter
[h!'A]aJournill 2P2®CJ TIOO~ ~000~00 cJJ®ffi Break Tr1p2 mile and 5 mile courses, male and female ~aJ[jUUj(b zP2~a SOLD 
0 UT ~00~~00 ~ffi[[)[[)[RD~~~
winners of 2mile win $10 and of Smile win $30 ~~~~ ~aJ~g]®[]] 
tickets on sale 3/15 for$45. stay at the
each. registra~on $2 Thurs and Fri in SUB office, 
•••••••••• Days Inn, Lake Shore Drive, Chicago
$3 at event 
<{)s <{)s ffi []] ou ~ ~ zP2 CJ ~ <{)s <{)s •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
april19-25
[h!'A]aJournill zP2@Ja [Ern~~~ ~illaJUJillZZZZ ®®mrng]~ill~ffi cJJaJZZZZ ~rn~U~Will~ 
widdow of Malcom X, Stepan Center at 7:30pm. t hf d t ·1 II II 
Tickets go on sale March 15/ $3 students, $5 WC C Or e 0 I S •••• 
fllTOSTfl 1t
ublic 

• 


.. 
Sports 

page 16 Friday, March 5, 1993 
.. 
' 
. 
.. 
• 
GEORGE 

•''i~ Irish women's hoops falls to Butler 
DOHRMANN 

J•.....~ . By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
JOCK STRIP 

This game meant more to Notre Dame 1------------------t 
than it did to Butler, and that made the 
Letitia Bowen is the key to an NCAA bid 
If the Notre Dame men's basketball team is referred to as the Monty William's Show, then the Irish women's team can be called the Letitia Bowen Hour. 
It is not to the extent of the men's team, where Williams appears at times to be the only player on the court with a pulse. But Bowen is the reason that the women's team has its chin above the .500 mark, and she is the only person who can lead Notre Dame to a title in the upcoming Midwestern Collegiate Conference Tournament and the NCAA bid that accompanies it. 
Guard Coquese Washington is the flashy point guard. the captain, and the voice of the team. Washington's skills are evident but Bowen is what brings respectability to the Irish women's program. 
Against Butler last night, Bowen had team highs of 22 points, 17 rebounds, and was four for four from the foul line. It was a typical day at the office. 
"I think Letitia is our best player," said McGraw. "She is our team leader in rebounds and scoring. We need her to play forty minutes a night, and we haven't been able to lately." 
The reason for Bowen's lack of court time this season comes from an acute foot injury and chronic knee problems which force her to play in great pain and often not at all. She missed the two games prior to last night's loss. 
"My knees have been feeling better lately, but I still feel them sometimes," said Bowen. 
Despite the pain Bowen has shined this season. A prime example came last night. With the team struggling, Bowen controlled the glass grabbing nine offensive r~bounds keeping the Irish in the contest before a late burst by Butler put the game away. 
ller effort was even more spectacular considering her injuries don't allow conditioning. "I was really tired because I haven't been playing and my conditioning has lapsfld," said Bowen . 
From March 8-10 the MCC Tournament will be held at the Joyce ACC. The fragile state of Bowen's knees and foot make Notre Dame's chances uncertain. Fellow sophomore Audrey Gomez has been hot as of late, as well as freshman Carey Poor. That duo gives the team depth at the guard spots and at forward, two an1as which have been hurting this season . 
But all that won't matter if Bowen is not healthy. 
After last night's game hoards of young girls from Montesson Grammar School crowded around Bowen. She took the time to talk to each one, and thanked them for cumin~. They were members of the school's ath-6th grade girls' basketball team. 
Moments earlier they talked to Washington and some of the other players, but in the end they were most delighted to talk to Bowen. 
Even at that young age they can recognize the talents of Bowen. 
'=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii:.~Washington is ranked twelfth in the 
• idwest. 
INSIDE SPORTS Junior Thayma Darby will be playing in ==-----:-~:-:-:--:-----;---:-:::-;-------, the number two spot for singles play.
•Grace wins IH hockey title She finished 12-4 at number five singles see page 12 last year. Due to personal reasons Darby 
•Men's hoops faces Louisville 
see page 11 
•Lacrosse goes east for break 
see page 14 
will be unable to attend the tournament this week. Taking her place will be senior Natalie Kloepfer, who will return to the number three spot for the rest of the season. 
Serving in the number three position this week, but who will normally be seen at fourth, is sophomore Andrea Ayres. It 
80-69 loss that much harder for Notre Dame to take. 
Butler has already clinched the Midwestern Collegiate Conference regular season title and the top-seed in next week's conference tournament. 
Notre Dame was trying to solidify its hold on second place and secure the No. 2 seed in the tournament. 
After Thursday's game, the Bulldogs look pretty secure as the team to beat in the tournament. 
"This is icing on the cake," Butler coach Paulette Stein said. "The real icing comes in the tournament, but this is a -~ confidence builder." \\ 
Late in the first half, Lellta Bowen the Irish looked like they would give coach Muffet McGraw her record-breaking 116th career win at Notre Dame and give the Bulldogs something to think about in next week's tournament. 
After Butler jumped out to a seven point lead in the first two minutes, the Irish responded, tying the game at 21 and pulling ahead by six with less than seven minutes remaining in the half. 
Letitia Bowen ignited the run with 12 points and Carey Poor added eight during the stretch. 
But the Bulldogs answered, keeping Notre Dame off the boards as they outscored the Irish 21-6 in the last four minutes of the first half to take a 44-35 lead at the break. 
"We finally got to the boards and kept Notre Dame away from the rebounds," Stein said. "The rebounds spurred our transition and we were able to get some 


easy baskets." 
·······

-----:M-----s:~~~ ~:~:.-----'~----­
cosgrove leads the Belles' tennis team 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
With a top flight player and an experienced lineup the Saint Mary's tennis team looks to be a force this season. 
Returning from a 12-7 season, the Belles' preseason ranking for midwestern Division Ill schools is thirteenth. Junior Mary Cosgrove is ranked twenty-fifth in the region. Cosgrove jumped from her number three spot of last season to number one singles this year. 
"We've got a lot of maturity," said coach Jo-Ann Nester. "Mary has the skill and tools to lead us at number one. We only missed the Nationals by one game last year." 
The team will start off their season this Sunday at the Hilton Head Tournament, where they will be up against seven different schools. The first of their opponents will be Guilford College who beat Saint Mary's last season, one of only two Division lii schools which beat the Belles. 
Following the tournament the Belles will travel to St. Louis to face Washington University in what could shape up to be their toughest match of the year. 
The Observer I Marguerite Schropp 

Carey Poor attempts a shot in last night's loss to Butler. A win would have put Coach Miuffet 
McGraw in first place for all-time victories. 
The Irish had some easy attempts of their own during the stretch, but couldn't convert. 
"We couldn't score," McGraw said. "We had great shots but we just didn't hit them." 
It didn't get much better in the second half. Butler outscored the Irish 12-4 in the first six minutes of the half and the game was virtually out of reach. 
Bowen was the only bright spot in the second half, scoring 10 points and pulling down 10 rebounds to finish with a game­

.,,._ 

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Sports Information Mary Cosgrove will be the leader for the Saint Mary's tennis team this spring. 
is still up in the air as to whom will be playing at the number four and five spots for the weekend, but it will be between sophomore Robin Hrycko and senior Chris Smiggen. Finishing off the line up is sophomore Nancy Waibel at the six spot. 
"We're strong throughout the line up. We have a good nucleus and we're playing a high level of tennis," said Nester. 
The team had to do some switching and substituting to match up doubles partners. This was in order to compen­
see TENNIS/page 13 
high 22 points and 17 rebounds. 
"She's a great player," Stein said. "It is very difficult to defend her. I think she's Notre Dame's best player." 
Thursday's loss places extra importance on Saturday's regular season finale against Evansville. 
Notre Dame needs a win to secure the No. 2 seed in the MCC tournament, which begins Monday at the JACC. 
Saint Mary's softball prepares for season 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 
While most of us are relaxing on the beach, or at least in the warmth of our own bed next week, the Saint Mary's softball team will be playing two games a day under the heat of the Orlando, Fla., sun. 
The Belles will play eight games the hardest of which, according to junior Stacy Bogataj, will be on Tuesday against Anderson University. 
Youth will be a big factor in the tournament, as the Belles will be starting at least four freshmen. Only three veterans will be rejoining the team. With this youth, however, comes a great deal of depth. In the past, the Belles have been short on pitchers, but now boast four. 
Freshman Laura Richter will serve as one of the freshman called to the mound. "We have a great pitcher-catcher rela­tionship. Jane (Murphy) is very strong behind the plate, and it is much easier to pitch to a confident catcher," she said. 
Fortunately for the Belles, however, the three returners provide strong leadership for the team. According to Richter, tri-captains, Bogataj, Sara Miller and Murphy, "give the team the leadership necessary for the team to be successful." 
Another strength for the Belles will be hitting. Providing a powerful three-four hitting combination are Bogataj and Miller. Last year the pair led the team with the highest batting average. 
According to Bogataj, fielding has been inconsistent, but the team has been practice limited to indoor play. 
see BELLES/page 13 





