
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 97 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S · 
Clinton challenges critics to offer spending cuts 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP) ­President Clinton, stepping up an attack on critics who say his economic plan doesn't contain enough spending reductions, said Sunday his opponents should offer more cuts and "not talk about doing better." 
"It's one thing to talk like a conservative and another thing altogether to live like one," Clinton said as he brought his sales show for his economic program to the West Coast, 
where  defense-related  
industries  are  particularly  
suffering.  

Clinton told several thousand students at a community college 
Yugoslavia receives aid, not Sarajevo 
SARAJEVO. Bosnia-Herzegov­ina (AP) -A U.N. convoy held up for days by hostile Serbs and mined roads finally delivered food to a besieged eastern town on Sunday, but there was still no aid distribution in shattered Sarajevo. 
A unilateral, nationwide cease-fire called Saturday by Bosnia's Muslim president, Alija Izetbegovic, appeared to be holding around the capital, but already was fraying elsewhere. 
As the commander of U.N. peaceke1-1pers in Bosnia headed for consultations with Bosnian Serb leaders to try to consolidate the truce, at least 18 people were reported killed in fighting in northern and eastern Bosnia. 
Muslims, Serbs and Croats were all reported to be massing troops or digging in for more fighting around the former Yu­goslav republic. 
Efforts to deliver aid to be­sip,ged enclaves in eastern Bosnia have caused frictions within the United Nations and have been manipulated for political reasons by Serbs and the Muslim-led Bosnian govern­ment. 
The U.N. high commissioner for rp,fugees, Sadako Ogata, canceled aid to most of Bosnia last w1-1ek. frustrated that Serbs were blocking convoys in the east and that city authorities in Sarajevo were refusing to deliver relief unless U.N. convoys got past the Serbs. 
On Friday, U.N. Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali rebuked Ogata and rescinded her order. Ogata said Sunday in Geneva she had received assur­ances from the warring factions that they would not hinder shipments. Her office said full aid operations could be restored as early as Monday. 
The U.N.-escorted convoy of 10 Belgian aid trucks carrying flour, other food and medicine arrived in the town of Zepa on Sunday afternoon to a "tumultuous welcome," said Tony Land, head of U.N. relief operations in Sarajevo. 
see AID I page 4 
that he would stress increased high-technology partnerships between government and indus­try to help convert lost defense jobs to civilian employment. 
He also announced he was re­leasing $500 million in federal funds to help defense industries convert to civilian projects. Aides said the money had been held up by the Bush administration. 
Clinton said his new technol­ogy proposal includes more job retraining programs for laid-off defense workers and a shifting of government research and de­velopment from defense pur­poses to civilian causes like 
• See Panetta/ page 5 
environmental protection. 
"Unless California is revived, t,he nation cannot recover eco­nomically," the president said. 
Speaking with students in the gymnasium of Santa Monica College, Clinton cited his steps in cutting the White House staff by 25 percent, government administrative costs by 14 percent over four years and advocating a one-year freeze in the salaries of government officials. 
"Every time I go someplace, they say cut more and tax less," 


Dinner on Park Avenue 
Clinton said, referring to criti­cism from conservative lawmakers and many economists that his plan designed to reduce the federal deficit by $325 billion in four years is weighed too heavily in favor of taxes. 
Clinton said that, in addition to deep spending cuts in many areas, including the Star Wars anti-missile program in the de­fense budget, he had produced 150 specific cuts in his economic plan. 
"That's not bad for four weeks on the job. I think we can do better. But I think what we ought to do is do better and not 
The Observer/Brian McDonough 

Notre Dame juniors and their parents enjoy an evening of catered food, songs by the Glee Club, and moving speeches by Dan Connolly, junior class president, and Rev. Edward Malloy, president of the university. Junior Parents Weekend began Friday night with a celebration Gala and concluding Sunday with a farewell brunch. 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) ­Air piracy charges were filed Sunday against a man who used grenades to hijack a Russian airliner and his wife, suspected of helping to plan the takeover. 
The two, accused of comman­deering an Aeroflot jet on Saturday with roughly 72 people aboard, were jailed pending appearances in a Stockholm court. 
There were no injuries, and passengers on Sunday ex­pressed sympathy for the hi­jacker, who had demanded to go to the United States. 
It was not immediately clear whether the couple would be extradited to Russia or prose­cuted in Sweden, where the man, who initially appeared to be acting alone, surrendered. Officials said no request for ex­tradition had been received from Russian authorities. 
The couple were identified as Tamerlane Musayev, 27, and his wife, Marina, 26. They were re­portedly from Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, a former Soviet republic torn by an ethnic war with neighboring Armenia. 
Musayev, appearing calm and 

F£Z.J2±1::~~:::J:::=::..L__l~=::.._j 
"" AP 
smiling, told magistrate Gunnar 
Carstenson he commandeered 
the plane because he wanted to 
go to the United States. 
"It would have cost 50 to 100 
months' wages to buy a ticket," 
he said. 
His wife, who was sitting in a rear seat with their infant daughter throughout the ordeal, had told passengers she was surprised when her husband took out the grenades and ordered the plane flown to New York. But during questioning Sunday, she confessed to help­ing plan the takeover, a Swedish investigator said. 

The plane made stopovers in Estonia and Sweden after au­thorities convinced Musayev the jet didn't have enough fuel to fly directly to the United States. 
Musayev admitted the hijack­ing but denied the charge of air piracy, a felony that involves threats of violence against others and carries heavier penalties. He said he armed one 
of his two grenades in the air not to threaten anyone but so guards on the plane would not shoot him. 
Passengers interviewed after their return to Russia on Sunday said they were never threatened. 
"They weren't the sort of ter­rorists who demanded dollars, gold, or murder," said Igor Drizhon, 56, a chemistry profes­sor. "They had one goal, to get talk about doing better," he said in reference to his critics. 
The plan outlines about $1.5 trillion in government spending in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. 
On his first trip to the West Coast as president, Clinton was flying later Sunday to San Jose, in California's high-tech Silicon Valley, for a private dinner with about 30 business leaders. 
On Monday, he will tour Sili­con Graphics in Mountain View, Calif., then fly to Seattle and a Boeing aircraft plant -just days after Boeing announced it will eliminate 23,000 jobs this 
see CLINTON/ page 4 

SMC participates in little siblings weekend 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
While students on the Notre 
Dame campus participated in 
Junior Parents Weekend activi­
ties this past weekend, students 
on the Saint Mary's campus 
spent time with their younger 
brothers and sisters during 
Little Siblings Weekend. 
This annual event, sponsored 
by the Residence Hall Associa­
tion, gave students the opportu­
nity to spend time with their 
younger brothers and sisters 
away from home, according to 
coordinator Katrina Winiecki. 
Activities for the weekend in­
cluded recreation time in the 
Angela Athletic Facility and the 
Regina swimming pool, T-shirt 
decorating, watching Saturday 
morning cartoons, trips to the 
mall, and watching "Beauty 
and the Beast" and "The 
see SIBS I page 4 

to America. They had no money to buy tickets on their own." 
Alexander Mylnyakov, 19, an economics student from St. Petersburg, said he never felt that he was in the grip of a madman. He said the hijacker was "very reassuring" and let people smoke or go to the bath­room. 
There was only one moment when the student feared for his life, he said. 
"It looked like the grenade suddenly seemed too heavy for him, I was afraid he would drop it," Mylnyakov said. "That was the worst moment." 
The Musayevs, with their 8­month-old daughter, boarded a twin-engine Tupolev 134 on a domestic flight to St. Petersburg on Saturday. Musayev ordered the plane to Tallinn, Estonia, where it was refueled and some of the people on board were freed. 
The aircraft flew on to Stock­holm, where Musayev released more passengers and eventually surrendered. 
Musayev said he obtained the grenades from a friend who had deserted from the military. 

page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Is true eultural diversity 
possible at a university 
like Notre Dame? 
Is it really possible for 
people of many races, 
nationalities and 
backgrounds to relate at a 
University that is 
traditionally Catholic, 
white and male? A 
diversity issues lies the question of whether Notre Dame would lose something essential if the University was truly diverse -that is, an environment in which people of varied backgrounds can gather and live and learn together. 
In fact, that is the core of what any university should be. Or at least what a national Catholic university should be. 
In fact, Notre Dame has done much to increase minority enrollment over the past five years, from 8.9 percent of the freshman class in 1986 to a high of 16 percent in 1989. Last year, almost 14 percent of all incoming freshmen were minorities. 
But is the University any more diverse? Has this increase had any impact on the average Notre Dame student? 
Notre Dame is pouring millions and millions o dollars into recruitment, financial aid and programs intended to promote diversity, but how has this investment affected students' attitudes? 
There arc programs organized to have such an impact. Take, for example, student government's prejudice reduction workshop for 75 students, faculty and staff, or the "Learning to Talk About Hacism" retreat for 20 sophomores. These programs are part of a trend of smaller, voluntary programs that reach out to a only a few students. 
The benefits are obvious. Smaller programs allow for intensive study of attitudes and create student advocates for cultural diversity, allowing students to take what they can from the experience and spread it to others. And because they are voluntary, students are open to learn. 
But the question remains. Can administrators or rnctors or student leaders or cultural diversity forums change the attitudes of average students? 
Perhaps. Just as the United States has moved slowly toward equality, so must Notre Dame. But it will take time. 
In fact, Notre Dame is doing what it can to promote diversity. The best the University can do is promote opportunities and create an environment in which questions can be asked. And, hopefully, answered. 
Although Notre Dame is a unique environment, it is not isolated from the rest of the nation. Its students are exposed to the same forces as other Americans, and they bring what they have learned, good and bad, to the University eommunity. 
The faet is that a move toward diversity will change not only the University, but its tradition also, and such changes are never easy. It could be that Notre Dame's white Catholic nature is essential to many of its students and alumni. 
But this University can change and can be diverse, a place where those of different backgrounds can learn together. And that might 'ust be what is essential to Notre Dame's future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Systems 
Jen Habryach John Holleran 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Seoaratists attack during elections 
• DAKAR, Senegai-Senegalese voters cast ballots for president Sunday, and Abdou Diouf was widely expected to win a third term despite the economic problems besetting this West African nation. An estimated 2.5 mil­lion of Senegal's 7.4 million people were eligible to vote. Full returns were not expected for several days. Senegal's bankrupt, agricultural-based economy is saddled with a $3.1 billion foreign debt, high unemployment and drought. But Diouf faced a fractured opposition that fielded seven candidates for the presidency. A candidate would win with 40 percent of the overall votes, which were being cast under new election laws designed to pre­vent fraud. Dozens of international monitors observed the balloting. On the eve of the vote, separatists in the south­ern region of Casamance attacked a bus, killing two sol­diers and two other people. The separatists, who want autonomy or independence for the Diola people, have stepped up attacks in recent months after the collapse of a 1991 cease-fire with government forces. 

NATIONAL 
Peabod~ President wants negotiations 
• HEND RSON, Ky.-The president of Peabody Coal Co., where union miners went on strike three weeks ago, says he wants to get back to negotiating a new contract. George "Sam" Shiflett also said he's struggling to keep jobs for 6,000 Peabody employees despite the dwindling market for the Midwest's sulfur-laden coal as the nation's clean-air laws kick into gear. ''I'm not union-busting," Shiflett told The Evansville Courier in an copyrighted in­terview published Sunday. But United Mine Workers spokesman Jim Grossfeld said Shiflett's comments were "public relations rhetoric." On Feb. 2, the UMW called a selective strike against Peabody Coal Co. of Henderson and Eastern Associated Coal of Charleston, W.Va., two subsidiaries of the nation's largest coal producer, Peabody Holding Co., after negotiations failed to produce a new contract. About 7,500 miners are on strike in West Virginia, Hlinois, Indiana and Kentucky. 

OF INTEREST 
• The 26th Sophomore Literary Festival will hold an informal question and answer session for Nikki Giovanni, African-American poet, today and another for Tim O'Brien, novelist, tomorrow. Both will be held in the lounge of the Hesburgh Library at noon. 
18 09 50 34 50 34 46 37 51 33 59 30 39 28 
25 19 57 39 47 33 

• WAS INGTON-President . Clinton's high-visibility jogs have lured a new wave of Americans to fight middle-age spread by revisiting running. "Now you've got a guy who's seen running by 100 million people a day, in the papers, on TV, and that has an effect on people," said Fred Lebow, chairman of the 27,000-member New York Road Hunners Club and director of the New York City Marathon. Membership inquiries in the club have more than doubled since November, and marathon participation is up around the country, Lebow said. President Bush ran regularly, but preferred secluded sites, keeping his regimen out of the public eye. Clinton runs faster, farther and more frequently, often through downtown Washington. And two vanloads of journalists track his every stride, ensuring the public knows about it. 
Student dies in bus crash 
• 
Marshall, Mich-A van carrying the Cincinnati Bible College women's basketball team slid off an icy freeway, killing one player and injuring seven teammates and the driver on Thursday night. Jill Rende!, 21, of Nicholasville, Ky. was dead at the scene of the accident, said Lt. Terry Cook of the Calhoun County Sheriff's Department. The team was en route to a tournament in Grand Hapids, 50 miles northwest of Marshall, when their van slid out of control and overturned in a ditch, cook said in a state­ment. Hendel. a front-seat passenger, was thrown from the van and crushed beneath it when it flipped onto its passenger side, said Hobin Ivey, a sheriff's department administrative assistant. Investigators believe she was not wearing a seat belt. The driver, assistant coach Christo­pher Solwecki, 24, of Lawrenceburg, Ind., and seven other players were treated at Oaklawn Hospital in mar­shall and released. 

• 
SUB applications are available today and tomorrow from 1-2 p.m. for 1993-94 board positions. Please come find out what SUB is all about in the student government office, 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1819: Spain ceded Florida to the United States. 

• 
In 1865: Tennessee adopted a new constitution abolishing slavery. 

•In 
1879: Frank Woolworth opened his first store. 

• 
In 1973: The U.S. and Communist China agreed to establish liaison offices in Beijing and Washington. 

• 
In 1980: In a stunning upset. the U.S. Olympic hockey team defeated the Soviets at Lake Placid, N.Y. 

• 
In 1983: Illinois Congressman Harold Washington won Chicago's Democratic mayoral primary on his way to becoming the city's first black mayor. 

• 
In 1988: The kidnappers of U.S. Marine Lt. Col. William Higgins released a videotape in which Higgins asked the 


U.S. to meet his abductors' demands. 
Kenya Johnson  
Viewpoint  
Production  Nora Buckley  
Jeanne Blasi  
Cyn Ehrhardt  Accent  
Nora Buckley  
Sports  
Rich Kurz  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 19 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 366,941,540 +1.19 to 239.27 S&P COMPOSITE +2.32 to 434.22 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +19.99 to 3,322.18

UNCHANGED 511 

GOLD 
-$2.00 to $331.00 /oz 
SILVER 
-$0.059 to $3.653 /oz 


Elevated trains collide in Chicago, 35 injured 
CHICAGO (AP) -Two Chicago Transit Authority trains collided inside a new tunnel Sunday on the first day of a route realignment, and 35 people were taken to hospitals, one with a serious injury. 
CTA officials were in­augurating a $187 million realignment of train routes to connect two of the system's most heavily used lines when the accident occurred at about mid -afternoon. 
A southbound train on the new Howard-Dan Ryan line entered the 4,400-foot tunnel the Chinatown area on the South Side and rear-ended another train that was stopped at the halfway .point in the tunnel, said CTA spokesman Jeff Stern. 
Thirty-five people were taken to area hospitals, most with minor injuries. 
"It was almost like a bump," Stern said. 
He said the second train was traveling slowly. Both sustained only minor damage and moved out of the tunnel under their own power, Stern said. 
He said the drivers of both trains were being questioned and tested for drugs and alcohol, as is routine. He refused to speculate on a cause for the crash. 
A 22-year-old man was listed in serious condition at Northwestern Memorial Hospital with possible neck and back injuries, said nursing supervisor Shirley Jackson, who refused to give the man's until his family was notified. 
Other train passengers were transported to various hospitals as a precautionary measure and were listed in fair to good condition. 
Under the realignment, the CTA disconnected the heavily used Howard line on the North Side from the lesser used Jackson Park-Englewood line on the South Side and instead made the Howard line feed into the heavily used Dan Ryan line on the South Side. 
Freshman Orientation Ge·neral Committee 

Applications are now available from Student Government Forms should be returned by Friday, February 26 Interviews will be conducted on Saturday, 2/27 and Sunday, 2/28 

If you have any questions or would like more information, please call Student Government at 631 ~ 7668, or stop by 203 LaFortune 
A 


Help, Call 911 

Notre Dame students polish up their skills in the Basic Life Support class on Sunday night at Rockne Memorial. Classes are offered throughout the semester. 



Newspaper: Police internal affairs report shows witnesses say King complied 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -An in­ternal police report on the videotaped beating of Rodney King says civilian witnesses reported seeing King comply with officers' orders before he was beaten, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
Nine witnesses told investiga­

tors that King did not exhibit 
the bizarre behavior officers on 
the scene described, and that 
he did not appear to be 
uncontrollable as the police 
said. 
"It seemed to me he was 

obeying orders," said Dorothy 
Shimes, a nurse who lives in an 
apartment building across the 

BLACK 
HERITAGE  HISTORY  
IN  MONTH  
PRINT  

The contributions made by African Americans to our national culture and that of the world can be seen wherever we look. The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is proud to present a selection of books representing these contributions from precolonial africa through slave narratives _and 
oiJI' 


the civil rights movements. We invite you to JOin us in sharing the experiences and inspirations of the African American people. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus " Open Monday Through Saturday 9a.m. -5p.nz. 
street from where King was stopped after leading officers on a freeway chase. 
"They told him to get down on the ground, and I looked and saw him on the ground with his arms spread out," Shimes told the Pasadena Star-News. 
Shimes lives in an apartment below George Holliday, who videotaped the beating in suburban Lake View Terrace. 
She said one of the officers appeared out of control to her. 
"He was beating him like you'd use a broom to kill a mouse -taking baseball swings at him," she said. 
Police spokeswoman Francine Spada declined to comment on the newspaper's account. She said she didn't have access to the police report, which was prepared by the department's internal affairs section. 
Shimes' account matches that of other citizen witnesses, including a bus driver who was stopped behind the police cars that surrounded King after the freeway chase, the newspaper said. 
"King went down to the ground without resistance and was giving himself up," driver 
Javier  Martinez  told  the  
newspaper  through  an  
interpreter.  






The Observer 
IEWPOINT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Rolando de Aguiar by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Rolando at 631-4541 for more information about either position. 

"jCumpleanos 



Feliz! 
See you in 
May, Bro" 
-~ ---~----------~--~--~ --------­
page 4 The Observer Monday, February 22, 1993 
Stalking charges filed against man who killed his wife 

HAMMOND, Ind. (AP) -Fear of her estranged husband drove 
Lona  Krull  King  to  seek  
protection  under  Illinois'  
stalking law last fall.  

But the 26-year-old woman apparently had enough of a change of heart to meet him late Friday in Chicago Hidge to talk about visits with their 



Clinton 
continued from page 1 
year. 
"This whole part of our coun­try, which has been the beacon of hope for decades, is now un­der great stress," Clinton said in Santa Monica. 
Clinton has proposed some 

children. Within an hour, she was dead. 
Police said Wayne King, 30, killed his former wife with three .38-caliber bullets to the head while his 3-year-old son watched. 
King killed himself early Saturday with a shotgun after being stopped by an Indiana 
$76 billion in defense spending cuts over four years in his new economic package. 
On finding ways to transform defense industries to civilian jobs, Clinton said: "It's time to stop talking about conversion and start doing something about it." 
Noting the Boeing layoffs in a speech Friday in Hyde Park, N.Y., Clinton said he backs a "new technology policy" to help revitalize industries that had been dependent on military contracts. 
"We know that aerospace jobs are growing in number world­wide -high-wage jobs. And we sat here for 10 years and let Europe put $26 billion into an Airbus program, direct government subsidies, to throw Boeing workers, McDonnell Douglas workers and other aerospace workers in America out of work because we said, well, we don't practice those kind of partnerships." 
"So we've got to face the fact that we've taken a new direc­tion," Clinton said, and hinted at new government-industry partnerships in aviation, electronics and other fields. 
The president has been on the road promoting his economic overhaul, which calls for $325 billion in deficit-reduction over the next four years. The center­piece of the plan is a new energy tax and higher tax rates for wealthy individuals and corporations. 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
U.N. officials estimate 100,000 Muslims are short of food in eastern areas surrounded by Serb forces. 
No food was distributed in Sarajevo despite appeals to the city council by Izetbegovic, Bosnia's government and east­ern Bosnian officials to end a boycott of U.N. aid called on Feb. 12 in solidarity with the eastern enclaves. 
"We will think very seriously about the decision of stopping the boycott," City Council Presi­dent Mustafa Pumuk said on Bosnian radio before the convoy reached Zepa. "Our decision was to boycott deliveries until food gets to 


Sibs 
continued from page 1 
Princess Bride" on video. I think that the T-shirt 



WJ!0.'54 

Watch and experience 
eastern Bosnia." 

Land said that although get­ting the convoy to Zepa was sig­nificant, that single achievement "is not what we're aiming at-we're aiming at regular access and regular deliveries." 
U.N. engineers were trying to repair the road to Gorazde, an­other government enclave, and there were plans to try again to get a convoy to the Cerska dis­trict as soon as possible, he said. Serbs blocked a convoy to Cerska last week despite assurances from their leaders that it could go. 
Cmdr. Barry Frewer, a spokesman for U.N. peacekeep­ers, said combat decreased no­ticeably around Sarajevo following Saturday's cease-fire announcement. 
No fighting was reported Sun-
decorating went over very well with everyone and overall everyone enjoyed themselves very much," said Winiecki. 
Saint Mary's freshman Jen­nifer Embry said "I enjoyed go­ing to the mall with my younger 

The mind ... Is it all in your head? 
Healing and the Mind with Bill Moyers Premieres TONIGHT on WNIT Television 
A new PBS series showns the scientific community grappling with the connection between mind and body. In addition, Fr. David Burrell moderates a local segment 10:30 pm Tuesday on WNIT. Thursday at 
6:30 pm at the Center for Continuing Education, watch an excerpt and join in the discussion following. For more information call 67 4-5961. 
MONDAY, 9:00-11:00pm The Mystery of Chi In Bejing and Sanghai, explore traditional Chinese medicine. The Mind Body Connection Medical professionals struggle to understand how thoughts, emotions, and even personalities can affect physical health. TUESDAY, 9:00 ·10:30 pm Healing From Within: A profile of two therapies that involve neither drugs nor surgery. The Stress Reduction Clinic at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center teaches meditation to patients, while the Stanford University School of Medicine shows how group psychotherapy may prolong lives. TUESDAY, 10:30-11:00 pm Healing and the Mind: A Mlchlana Persp«:tlve. David Burrell, CSC, Theodore Hesburgh Professor of Philosophy and Theology, leads health care professionals in a discussion about a new orientation in the medical field-toward integrating mind and body in the recovery process, and in health maintenance. WEDNESDAY 9:00 -11 :00 pm The Art ofHealing A model of medical care based on the idea that emotional states play an important role in people's vulnerability to disease. Wounded Healers Commonweal is a retreat in California that helps people with cancer understand the experience of illness as a part of life. 
Funding for educational materials is provided by ll£ FETZER INSTITUTE 
state trooper in Hammond for driving too slowly on an expressway, according to Chicago Ridge police. The handgun they believed was used to kill his wife was found in the car, police said. 
The woman's family and friends said King had a record of threatening and assaulting 
day. Children played in the snowy streets, sledding and throwing snowballs at passing 
U.N. cars. 

Gen. Philippe Morillon, com­mander of U.N. forces in Bosnia, headed for Bosnian Serb headquarters at Pale, east of the capital, to discuss ways to keep the cease-fire going, Frewer said. 
Truces have failed repeatedly to produce a lasting peace set­tlement in the war over Bosnia's secession from Serb­dominated Yugoslavia. 
Bosnian government sources said the truce was called to help . get aid through to eastern Bosnia. But it also coincided with Serb gains on Sarajevo's western edge and the destruction of a key government ammunition store on nearby Mount Igman. 
sister. It was great to spend time with her." The weekend's activities were funded by the $25 fee for each sibling who participated. 



0MPUS 

MINISTRY 
University of Notre Dome Notre Dame, IN 46556 
l.ORWV Cona><nl 219·239-6536 Badin Half 218•238-5242 
'ft.·. 

his former wife. The Cook County state's attorney's office filed stalking charges against the man in November. He was free on $200,000 bond, said his lawyer, Matthew Walsh. 
"This could have been avoided if the courts would have· done what they were supposed to do," said Peter Krull, the 

Bosnian radio claimed Serb Serb breakthrough in Stup, a forces were massing troops key government position and a around western Sarajevo and gateway to Sarajevo proper. the northeastern government­Tank barriers were erected held city of Tuzla, apparently in around the city's television preparation for a major offen­building. sive. There also were reports of 
Sources close to the Bosnian clashes and rising tension be­army's Sarajevo command said tween Bosnian Croats and Mus­the few tanks and artillery lim-led government forces in pieces that defenders could parts of central Bosnia, under­spare were moved to the scoring the fragility of their al­
western suburbs to prevent any liance against the Serb forces. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 
A §JEARICJHI FOR TJHrlE §IP'ffRrf ][N TilDE LJ[FJE WlE LJ[VJE 
A weekend! away for seniors 
victim's father. "(His) lawyer just made a mockery of the law, with continuance after continuance. And this is what it brings." 
Lawyers say such delays are common. A case often takes six months to a year before coming to trial, said Reg Priestly. 

who have service or social action experie:rnce 
March 19 -21 Sponsored by: The Center for Social Concerns Campus Ministry 
Come if you want to: 
--Share Stories --Spend time alone --Laugh and Eat --Ask BIG questions 

Explore how faith and service are related 
Applications avai Iable at: 
The Office of Campus Ministry or the Center for Social Concerns 
Application Deadline: February 28, 1993 


---------------------------------~ 


The Observer/Brian McDonough 
Karate chops 
Students practice their moves in The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute. Classes are available at Rockne Memorial. 




T 
server 

is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Graphics Manager Illustrations Manager 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kevin Hardman by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kevin at 631-7471 for more information about either osition. 

The Observer page 5 

Panetta doubts major changes will be made in Clinton's plan 
WASHINGTON (AP) -White House Budget Director Leon Panetta said Sunday he expects Congress to alter President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan but doubts lawmakers will offer any major spending cuts that have a chance of passing. 
"There'll be some changes," said Panetta, who heads the Of­fice of Management and Budget. "But I think the fundamental principles that are built into the economic plan are going to hold together and pass the Congress." 
Answering questions on NBC's "Meet the Press," Panetta, former chairman of the House Budget Committee. invited members of Congress to propose specific additional spending reductions if they don't think Clinton's plan goes far enough. 
"But I think the problem is that people, deep down, in the Congress can talk a good line on deficit reduction, but won't propose anything specific that really has much chance of passing," he said. 
Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., said on CNN's "Newsmaker Sunday" he has prepared a list of spend­ing changes that would save $216 billion. He would not make the list public but said the biggest savings would come from Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, Head Start and similar programs. 
Clinton's plan, which he spelled out in a nationally broadcast address to Congress on Wednesday, includes business tax incentives and public spending to stimulate the economy in the short run. The stl'ong medicine comes in the form of tax increases and spending cuts aimed at reducing the budget deficit by $325 billion over the next four years, including the $140 billion reduction Clinton pledged in 1997. 
Talk of the plan dominated the airwaves Sunday. 
Treasury Secrefary Lloyd Bentsen raised the possibility that the proposed income tax increases might not be retroactive to Jan. 1, as the president said. 
"We're not sure on that one," Bentsen said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." He noted it will be difficult for Congress to complete action on the tax proposals before July. implying the increases might kick in then. 
The income tax increases would hit only single people making over about $140,000 a year, couples above $180,000, the 20 percent of Social Security retirees with, the highest incomes, and corporations. 
The plan's only tax increase on middle-income families is a new levy on most energy sources, beginning July 1, 1994. 
House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia said on "Meet the Press" there is vir­tually no chance the plan will pass Congress intact. Democrats may be able to push it through the House, he said, but "by the time it gets to the Senate, the country will have rebelled so much, there'll be so much anger and so many people seeing their senators. that large parts of this package will be taken apart." 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said an initial display of strong public support for Clinton's program has vanished. "Our phone calls went from about a 60-40 for the president's program the day after the speech to 2-1 against the program," Dole said. 
Money might create temporary jobs slots 
WASHINGTON (AP) -People looking to snag one of the 50,000 to 60,000 jobs rebuilding the nation's cities under President Clinton's economic plan should be prepared to work for a short time, maybe for low pay. 
Clinton's plan sets aside $2.5 billion in community develop­ment block grants, handed out by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The money is to be used for public works projects tabled by cash­poor local governments. 
Those projects, according to Clinton's plan, would make enough work to give people a little extra spending money and boost the economy. It's up to the cities to decide which projects to spend the grant money on. 

The mayors of 470 cities came up with 107,083 eligible projects, worth $3.5 billion. They say these projects could start within 120 days and be completed by December. Most of the projects would need small crews, mainly 25 people or fewer to work for about one month, the mayors say. 
Many of these projects involve paving roads. rebuilding side­walks and bus stops, sprucing up recreation centers and play­grounds -things that many ci­ties could use public works em­ployees to do. 
Michael Nail, who monitors community development issues for the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Of­ficials in Washington, said the plan could mislead some people into thinking that there will be a large number of full-time positions available. 
"That's always the problem when you talk about job cre­ation," Nail said. "They could be low-to moderate-income jobs, service workers. The monies could be used to support existing staff. Still, regardless of the types of jobs. there will be a ripple effect on the economy." 
Housing Secretary Henry Cis­neros said he wants to make sure that the cities use the money for new jobs, rather than other needs. 

.-------------.---~---------------------­
The Observer

page 6 Monday, February 22, 1993 
Heavy snow in Rockies, 5 missing Weather Service looks to improve weather forecasts 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -The casting will save Americans outlook for America's weather more than $43 billion by pre­forecasts is sunny, especially venting weather-related losses since President Clinton has pro­by the year 2005. posed boosting funds for mod­Weather forecasts already ernizing the National Weather have improved markedly, whieh Service. can save lives, property and 
The Weather Service is in the money for individuals and busi­middle of the biggest overhaul nesses, Friday said. in its history, acquiring new Hurrieane Andrew is an ex­computers, radar, automatic ample. Friday noted that his observing systems, wind­ageney's forceast for that storm measuring equipment and was the best of any hurricane satellites. Also, more than 200 predietion ever made. Weather Service offices will be True, Andrew was the most consolidated at 116 locations. damaging storm in Ameriean 
"We are basically retooling history, but the aceurate warn­every aspect of the Weather ings issued in Florida and Service," said National Weather Louisiana saved many lives, Service Director Elbert Friday. Friday said. And it's the threat 
The cost: more than $5 billion to life that drives the by completion in the year 2004. modernization plan. 
The Clinton economic plan announced last week proposes The National Weather Service an additional $81 million for was founded in 1870 following the National Weather Service in a decade of disastrous ship the current fiscal year, sinkings on the Great Lakes. including $21 million extra for modernization. and $293 The rebuilding of the Weather million over four years. The Service isn't without its critics. agency had budgeted about Many communities and mem­$160 million for modernization bers of Congress are eoncerned programs this year. The extra about the closing of local money would go for computers weather offices. Indeed. law and other improvements. now requires the National 
A National Institute of Stan­Academy of Scienees to study dards and Technology cost­each closing and certify that no benefit analysis estimated that protection will be lost before an improvements in weather fore-oflice can be shut down. 
.---------------~-------------------------------.

Club Column 
FEBRUARY 22, 1993 
1) All clubs, budgeting and registration packets are available and are due March 3. They've been put into your mailboxes on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. Social service groups now have mailboxes outside the CCC Office (206 Lafortune). If you did not receive a packet, stop by the CCC office during the posted office hours. Questions, call the Club Coordination Council @ 631-4078 or Jennifer Blanchet @ 634-4975. Remember to check your mailboxes. 
2) Graduate Clubs will be receiving registration packets after spring break and they will need to be returned in April. Watch for more infor­mation soon. 
3) .Last day to access all club funds is April 15, plan accordingly See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 
4) The Notre Dame Porn Pon Squad is holding an informational meeting regarding tryouts for the upcoming season on Wed., Feb. 24 at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune. Any questions, please call Natalie Brohl @ 284-4329 or Stacy Tischler @ 634-4030. 
5) The Hispanic American Association will have elections for the 1993-1994 school year on monday, Feb. 22. The meeting will be at 7:30p.m. in the Old Club Room on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. Any questions, please contact lzzy@ 634-1721 or Anita@ 634-4231. 
6) LULAC will be having an important meeting on Tues., Feb 23 
at 7 p.m. in the Old Club Room of Lafortune. Election of officers will be held. Refreshments will be provided. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 

(AP)-Colorado avalanches 
buried ears on a highway and 
left live skiers missing Sunday 
as a fast-moving storm blew 
blinding snow through the 
northern Hockics and onto the 
Plains. 
Dozens of roads were closed 
and residents were busy 
digging out from under as mueh 
as 40 inches of snow. 
An avalanche just after noon 
Sunday swept across both lanes 
of Interstate 70 on Vail Pass, 
burying four cars and a 
highway department truck, the 
Colorado State Patrol reported. 
The vehicles' occupants were rescued unharmed, the patrol said, but the highway remained closed between Vail and Copper Mountain. 
Five eross-country skiers were missing near Aspen, Colo., a day after two avalanches thundered down ncar the exelusive resort town, and dozens of people were stranded in remote eabins. 
The avalanche hazard was rated extreme Sunday for the mountains near Aspen and Crested Butte, aecording to the Colorado Avalanche Information Center. More than 268 avalanches had been reported since a warning went into efl'ect Wednesday. 
Blowing snow prevented an airplane and helicopter from being used in the search for the missing skiers. Ground teams could not venture into the area 
ATLANTA (AP)-The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), responsible for providing aid during natural disasters, spent most of its money over the past decade on a top-secret program to enable the government to survive a nuclear attack, according to a report published Sunday. 
A six-month investigation by Cox Newspapers coneluded that for every dollar FEMA spent on responding to natural disasters, almost $12 was spent on these­cret program, which was built 
network. 
The network includes a fleet of 300 vehicles in live mobile units scattered from Washington state to Massachusetts and from Col­orado to Georgia, according to the report, which appeared in the Atlanta Journal­Constitution. 
A call to a FEMA spokesman for comment Sunday was not immediately returned. 
National security programs accounted for 78 percent of FEMA's budget from 1982 to 1991, dwarfing the amount spent on natural disasters ­just 6.6 percent of the budget, the report said. 
Yet the national security pro­gram money appears annually as just a single line in FEMA's budget -"submitted under a separate package," according to the report, which said a third 
loaded Weapon I PG13 5:15, 7:30, 10:00 The Verolehlng R 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Grounch>g Oay PG 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 

Colorado is nation's worst avalanche area 
DENVER (AP) -Beyond the groomed slopes of Colorado's ski resorts, undisturbed powder and ice promise a "natural high" for climbers, skiers, snowmobilers and others who want to test their skills against nature. 
But the Colorado backcountry also is the deadliest avalanche area in the nation, says Scott Toepfer of the Colorado Avalanche Information Center. 
The state is on its way to a record number of avalanche deaths this season, and that has renewed a debate over whether more restrictions should be placed on backcountry access in the winter. 
Already this ski season, nine people have died in Colorado avalanches, just two fewer than during the record 1986­87 season. 
were to return Saturday. Two 
others had left with them but 
took a different route back and 
returned safely Saturday. Tem­
peratures were in the teens 
during the night. 

An undetermined number of people were stranded at their rural homes by one of the slides, said Debbie Hounsefell of the sheriff's office. Twenty people were stranded at the Ashcroft ski area, she said. 
In Wyoming, up to a foot of snow fell, often accompanied by high wind, and a 320-mile stretch of Interstate 80 was closed from Laramie to the Utah line from Saturday night until after daybreak Sunday. 
"It's starting to look like semi city," Jenifer Beachy, a clerk at the Flying J Travel Plaza in Evanston, Wyo., said of truckers waiting out the storm. 
Blowing snow and ice also hindered travel Sunday in Ne­braska, reducing visibility to zero in the northeast and the north-central areas. 
The village of Hadar, Neb., about 10 miles northwest of Norfolk, had gotten 13 inches of snow since Saturday afternoon, 
because snow on the mountain­sides was so unstable, officials said. 
"We can't risk more lives," said Debbie Kendrick of the Pitkin County Sheritrs office. 
The missing skiers set out Friday, camped overnight and the National Weather Service said. 
"All of a sudden it just really started coming down, and it never quit," said Gary Kettler, chairman of the Hadar Village 
Board. 



Report: FEMA ready for war, not disaster 
around a vast communications r;.;..;..=::....:::.:..:.....;.;..::..:.:.:::..:..._ .:...::::..::.:.::.;::.:..::..:...._ __, 
of FEMA's 2, 700 employees The mobile communications work in the project. units across the nation include The report was also critical of generators capable of powering FEMA's effort to provide relief a three-story airport terminal. after Hurricane Andrew devas-Sensitive radio, telephone and tated south Florida last fall. satellite gear is stored in 
For example, it said, the city custom-built trucks. manager of Homestead, Fla., In Thomasville, Ga., FEMA pleaded for 100 hand-held ra-built a bomb shelter at the Fed­dios because the town had only era! Regional Center in 1971 one working telephone. Instead, when there was the threat of a FEMA sent high-tech vans ca-Soviet nuclear attack. The pable of sending encrypted, agency spends millions of multi-frequency radio messages dollars each year maintaining it to military aircraft halfway and other underground around the world. facilities. 

Applications for Senior Formal Co-Chairperson are now available at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor of LaFortune). 
Applications are due March 1, 1993. 
.JMary Margaret 
~  Malone  
··~  May you swing  
high on your  
22WI birthday.  




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent  
you,  and a resume to Meredith McCollough by 5 p.m.,  
my, Daddy, Buddy,  Monday, February 22, 1993. For questions about any  
ohn, and Elizabeth  of the positions, call Meredith at 631-5323.  

------·--------------~-~----------------~­
Monday, February 22, 1993 The Observer page 7 

New World Bank policy seeks higher rates, reforms 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The World Bank wants power com­panies in poorer countries to shed government control. in­crease efficiency and generally charge higher rates to their customers. 
A sweeping new bank energy policy unveiled during the weekend intends to push countries in that direction. The world's biggest lender laid down stringent guidelines for future energy projects. 
"We have a new motto: no more business as usual. It's a new world out there," said Hobert Saunders, a former chief of the bank's energy division and primary author of two new bank policy papers -one on electrical power and one on en­ergy efficiency. 
The bank aims about 15 per­cent of its lending, or about $40 billion through last fiscal year, to energy projects in the developing world. 
Some have failed, officials ac­knowledge, and most developing countries still have a single national electric utility operating as an often inefficient, poorly maintained and unprofitable public monopoly. 
For three decades, the bank has helped fund and tried to improve such projects. 
Now, said Saunders, the de­veloping world needs $100 bil­lion annually to serve its growing power needs, and Eastern Europe and Central Asia need another $70 billion a year to upgrade inferior systems built under communism. 
Countries like Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines in Asia; Argentina, Chile and Mexico in Latin America; Turkey and Eastern European countries, and Ivory Coast, Guinea and Ghana in Africa already are changing the way they generate and distribute electricity, said the policy paper on electric power. 
But most countries "simply cannot cope" with spiraling en­ergy demand, increasing costs, poor performance of existing systems and rising environmen­tal concerns. 
Power subsidies have sucked needed finances from poor gov­ernments, the report says, and politicians rather than indepen­dent managers have exercised too much control over power company decisions. 
Over the 1980s, average charges for power in developing countries declined from 5.2 cents per kilowatt hour to 3.8 cents, the bank report said, as countries lowered power rates to ease poverty. 


Syria sup.ports U.S. drive to reopen the Middle East peace talks 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (APJ -Syria gave its unqualified support Sunday to the U.S. drive to reopen Mideast peace talks as Secretary of State Warren Christoph~r promised to step in to help shape a settlement once the negotiations resume. 
~we intend, if anything, to be more active than the United States has been in the past." Christopher said, taking a stance long urged on Washington by the Arabs. 
But even with the support of President Hafez Assad, once prominent in the Arah rejectionist camp, Christopher still needs Palestinian approval of a phased return of 396 exiles from Lebanon. 
Christopher got lsraeLt6C agree Feb. 1 to take back 101 right away and the remainder by the end of the year. Now 

Christopher praist'ld .Assad, saying, "He has an independent desire to move forward with the peace process." 
The secretary then flew to Riyadh, the fourth stop on a week-long trip, his first abroad, for a meeting Sunday night with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. 
He said he would be asking Saudi Arabia "to help us in an early resumptions of the nego­tiations" of Mideast peace talks. 
In Jerus~Jem, a spokesman for Prime. Minister Yitzhak Rabin said the Israeli government would wait for Chdstophet to arrive later this 
. .. week befor~ comment~qg on his appeal to speed the deportees' return. But the spokesman, Gad Ben-Ari; indi­cated that Israel was 
Christopher is urging Israel to. ..• by the outc(}UHl of speed their return byt+•· 
s talks with the expediting reviews of the expulsions. The men were deported Dec. 17 on suspicions Cabinet ministers said they of inciting violence. believed Israel has made 
The idea was given t~•"" enough cdq<:f)ssions ~? C()ax Christopher on Friday In Cairo _.., · Palestinians and Israers Arab by Egyptian President Hosnl neighbors back to the Mubarak. negotiating table. 
Christopher met for 3 1/2 Syria's determination to re-hours with Syrian President turn to tb:ebargaining tf!;~le in Hafez Assad. Afterward,/ hopes of winning back the of aU the deportees. 
Sharaa called their exile "a human tragedy" and "a thorn in resuming the peace process." But he said the stalled peace process was "broader and more important." 
Speaking to reporters at the Palestinian exiles' camp between Lebanese. and Israeli army lines, spokesman Aziz Dweik said: "We will accept a timetable for our return only if Israel declares with international guarantees that it will not deport any Pales­tinian any more." 
Christopher, meanwhile, again said the United States would be a "full. partner" in the negotiations and, for the f'rrsttime, explained what he meant by that. 
''I think you will see the United States b(:}ing in a very pro;..active role;' he said. "On a nt1IIlbet of issues the parties are close enough together so they can be assisted by the facilitation of an outsider ... 
".There is .room for a constructive role of an honest broker at this stage." 
Before the negotiations were recessed, Israel and Syria had begun to discuss the possibility 
neither Christopher nor Syrian · Golan Heights could put of a settlement in which Israel Foreign Minister Farouk al-pressure on the Palestinian would give up land in
ATTENTION: CINCINNATI 

Sharaa would provide details leadership to accept something exchange for peace with its of the discussions. less than the immediate return Arab neighbor. 

AREA STUDENTS 
The 1993 Xavier Summer Sessions Bulletin of Classes & Workshops Is now available. Undergraduate & graduate level courses offered in the areas of Arts & Sciences, Business, Education, Professional Studies & Social Sciences. Session dates: May 17-June 24 &July 6-August 12 call or write: 




~VIEK 
II!~ summer sessions UNIVERSITYli[t 3800 Victory Parkway ~~m Cincinnati, OH 45207·3120;I 513/745-4381 
Xavier University is an academic community commilled to equal opportunity for all persons regardless ofage, sex, race, religion, handicap, or national origin. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following Saint Mary's positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor 


Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jennifer Habrych by 5 p.m., Thursday, February 25, 1993. Applications can be dropped off at either the Notre Dame Observer office or the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more information about any of the positions, call Jennifer at 631-5303 or 284-4312. 

Lee shows 'Malcolm X' to prison inmates 
NEW YORK (AP) -Film direc­urge them to draw inspiration tor Spike Lee used Sunday's from the slain activist. 28th anniversary of the assassi­Lee reminded the inmates at nation of Malcolm X to show his the Hikers Island jail that Mal­movie on the black Muslim colm X was in prison when he leader to 600 prisoners and turned to education and 


The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kenya johnson by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kenya at 631-4540 for more information about either position. 
religion and turned his life around. Lee said he was showing the film in the hope of inspiring inmates to stay out of jail after their release. 
In a question-and-answer pe riod with the inmates after the screening, Lee chided the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for nominating "Scent of a Woman" and not "Malcolm X" for best picture. He said "Scent of a Woman will be forgotten in 40 years, but "Malcolm X" won't. 
"I think history will bear us out," he said. 
Lee, whose film opens with portions of the videotape of the Rodney King beating, alluded to racial bias in the criminal justice system. He said it was "no coincidence" that most of his prison audience Sunday was black or Hispanic. 
He said he was inspired to show the movie in prisons after boxer Mike Tyson, serving a sentence in Indiana for rape asked to see it. Tyson loved the movie and is now reading sev eral books a week. 
Breen Phillips Spring fashion Show 
Help the American Diabetes Association by modeling in the fashion show. 
-NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
-Meet new people -have fun and help charity 
Monday February 22nd in the LaFortune Ballroom. 7:00 -10:00 p.m. 





Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, February 22, 1993 
The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager........ Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Ed1tor. V1ewpomt Ed1tor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ed1tor. Commentanes, fetters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

Malthus' pessimistic prophecy may still come true 
from $1 k down to as little as

gians, experts on all matters Two centuries ago Malthus in productive efficiency result­
$278). In 2025, the pereentagHs

pertaining to gender and sex, noted the violence of the age of ing from the Industrial Revolu­
shift to 15% in developed

without discernible portfolio or revolution could be traced to tion actually caused the real
eolumns for The Observer who economies, 85% in undevelopHd
certification of any kind. "Peer excess population crowded into price of bread to drop, albeit
only find prophetic insight in economies, where population is
review" is a process familiar to the largest cities of Europe. too late for Irish unable to
papal doeuments symptomatic likely to grow at rates doubling
faculty elsewhere in the Uni­Not a brilliant applied digest grass during the "hungry
of compulsive voyeurism. totals each decade. India might
versity, not to them. mathematician, he argued this 'forties."
Several of thAse jackleg be the most populous.
They have developed a sixth deplorable circumstance Perhaps Paul VI thought these 
preaehers are members of my 

sense, a nose for prophecy, re­resulted from iron laws of de­escape hatches were
academic generation and I In 2025 earth and economie
vealing a link between papal mography and agricultural transcendent constants of hu­
know them well enough to find history will be less kind to
condemnation of all forms of productivity. Amelioration of the man experience. Perhaps he
their company valuable and wretched human beings Where
contraception except "rhythm" lot of the wretched of the earth, agreed with Nietzsche that only
entertaining in a dozen con­will they emigrate? Their soils
(for serious reasons) and police progressive politics of any kind, great suffering is the true lib­
texts. They are, without ques­will not sustain intensified agri­
state, "crime preventing," were wasted energy since erator of the human spirit, and
tion, sensitive, loving and intel­culture because of desertifica­
forced sterilization. Prophecy is human beings could reproduce that war, famine, pestilence,
ligent pArsons, trained in tion or ruinously increased 
not what it was in the days of themselves geometrically while and death actually liberate the
Catholic colleges when scholas­salinity. The citizens of develop­
Isaiah. their increases in productive wretched of the earth. Perhaps
tic philosophy and theology ing economies will not prof­
Before according the palm to efficiency were merely there are mysterious depths to
lurked in a time warp totally itably participate in the indus­
Paul VI's intellectually stillborn arithmetic. The poor were his prophetic message I cannot 
trial revolutions of the 21st cen­
removed from the human 

Humanae Vitae, college caught in Malthus' "scissors;" it plumb.
sciences, evolutionary biology tury because electronics and
educated Catholics should read is easier to produce mouths A great religious prophet, of 
or psychology, or from detailed telecommunications will be
Yale historian of strategic and than bread at the table. course, need not be a great
historical eonsideration of any controlled by multinational cor­
international affairs (The Rise But Malthus' pessimism was statistician. But monetarism
century including the thirteenth porations not likely to provide
and Fall of the Great Powers, premature. He ignored three and supply side eeonomics re­
and the late eighteenth. safety nets for the wretched. Do
1988) Paul Kennedy's just factors which kept the windows quire minimal mathematical 
the mullahs give a damn?

published Preparing for the open to the possibility of social literacy, and to the extent the
They monotonously recite pa­

Twenty-first Century, Random justice. In the early part of the religious right has secular intel­
pal authority on human sexual­Edward Manier is a professor
House, 1993), or switch to night 19th century, the poor could lectual credentials, that's where
ity because they have no other in the philosophy department
school. escape the scissors by emigra­they lie. They owe us something 
at the University of Notre
information on the subject. 

Kennedy correctly notes the tion (e.g., to the U.S.), agricul­beyond injunctions to blind
They are "holier than the Dame. 
man Karl Marx contemptuously tural productivity accelerated at obedience They owe us a plan
pope," loyal sons of a church 

dismissed as "Parson Malthus" rates undreamt of by the Par­for continued escape from
anointing film critics, theolo­

got his prophecy terribly wrong. son; and the vast leap forward Malthus' prophecy: the 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

I COUWNT HaP U5TeNIN6 IN ON YOUR COtV~TION f)J/TH CVKE THe OTH/3R. mY. I 
?HINK ITS 6RMT YOUWANT70 HWPI30PL.l3 
a/HOAR/3 51.JFFB?IN6. 

ANYWAY, LA'5TNIGHT I 7lXJI< 50MeOF [J(}K&'5 STASH /WI? seNTITCFF 7V 
'y(){). I HOP/3 ITHl3/.PS. 
\ 

"Remember, what the door­mouse said... 'Feed your head!"' 
Jefferson Airplane 

Feed lots ofhl'ads . .. Submit: QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 




Accent 
Monday, February 22, 1993 page 9 

Holy Cross Associates 
providing volunteer opportunity for graduates 

By RICK DELVECCHIO 
Accent Writer 
For most seniors, graduation marks their official entrance into the "real world." For a few Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors, graduation marks the beginning of a one year plunge into a part of the real world that they may otherwise never know. 
The Holy Cross Associates is a program of lay formation that places recent graduates in a one year experience which emphasizes service to the poor, community living, spirituality, and simple lifestyle. 
Founded in 1978, the HCA program is celebrating its fifteenth anniversary this year. Over the years, Associates have worked with the homeless, the elderly, "at risk" teens, people with AIDS, developmentally disabled adults and children. The program focuses not only on what the Associates do, but the As­sociates themselves. 
Mary Ann White, Assistant Director of the program, believes the program is, "a chance for graduates to put into action 
'Through the giving, I have received so much knowledge, wisdom, encouragement, and friendship.' 
-Karen Pillar 
the values they learn at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's." 
The primary goal of the program is the personal growth of the Associate community through the experience and understanding of service and community living. In other words, "It's not so much what Associates do, but what they become," explains White. 
The individuals that enter the program were majors in everything from Ac­counting to PLS to Pre-Med. Similarly, after their experience, Associates go on 
Acclaimed author Tim O'Brien will read tonight at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium as part of the week-long Sophomore Literary Festival. 

to all walks of life from business to law to ministry. 
The domestic program is located at six houses across the country -and each site makes for a strong Holy Cross community. There are houses in Portland, Oregon; Oakland, California; Phoenix, Arizona; Colorado Springs, Colorado; South Bend, Indiana and Brockton, Massachusetts. 
Each year a total of approximately thirty-six associates are chosen to work at the six sites. 
The HCA program also offers a program of service in Chile, which requires just over a two year commitment. 
Associates begin their adventure at Notre Dame. For one week in August, all the Associates for the domestic sites and Chile program meet at Moreau Seminary for orientation. This allows all the Associates to meet and get to know one another before out to their 
various destinations. 

After orientation, transportation is provided to carry the Associates to their new home for the next year. Associates 
w 

O'Brien writes of Vietnam experience 

By TONY POTTINGER 
Accent Writer 
Pulitzer Prize-nominee Tim O'Brien will speak tonight as the second featured author of the 26th annual Sophomore Literary Festival. This evening, O'Brien will read from an as of yet unannounced selection of his and follow this with a question and answer session. 
Joining the ranks of Edward Albee, Ralph Ellison, Arthur Miller, and Kurt Vonnegut, who have in the past spoken at this annual event designed to pro­mote literary awareness and appreciation, the Minnesota native is being touted as one of the premier American writers of the past twenty years. 
After graduating summa cum laude from Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota with a degree in political science, O'Brien was drafted into the Army in 1968. He postponed study at Harvard, where he had earned a full academic scholarship, to serve in Vietnam and while there won a Purple Heart while attaining the rank 

courtesy Holy Cross Associates 

1992-93 Colorado Springs Holy Cross Associates, left to right, Matt Hall, Jason Lampke, 
Karen Pillar, Terese Martinov, Patty McMalley, Tom Elmer, Jen Janczura, are shown above. 
stimulate discussion and personal examination. Associates are encouraged to question their faith, and "reflect on their experience in light of it," said White. While the experience is sometimes difficult, White believes it is a "beneficial challenge." 
"Through the giving, I have received so much knowledge, wisdom, encour­agement and friendship, I am a richer person...for having tried, for giving it my best," said Karen Pillar, an Associate currently serving in Colorado. 
The Holy Cross Associate program is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors. The program also draws students from Stonehill College in Massachusetts and the University of Portland in Oregon. 
There will be an informational meeting Monday, March 1, 1993 at the Center for Social Concerns for all those interested in the program. Applications for the 
are given two weeks to settle to their domestic program are due March 19, 
new home and adjust to their new 1993. For more information contact 
community, before beginning work. Mary Ann White, Assistant Director of The community lifestyle is intended to the program, at Moreau Seminary. 

of sergeant. 
O'Brien's wartime experiences have had the most influence on his development as an author. Though opposed to the war personally, he felt a social obligation to serve his country. He reacted to his experiences through his first book, If I Die in a Combat Zone, Box Me Up and Ship Me Home which was published in 1973. A follow-up book, Northern Lights, has been compared to Hemingway's war time novel, The Sun Also Rises. 
Most recently, O'Brien's "The Things They Carried," a short story often read in University English classes and the Fresh­man Writing Program, was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Critic's Circle Award. 
Also, his Going After Cacciato, which is the odyssey of a Viet­nam deserter who plans to travel overland through Asia to Paris, earned O'Brien the National Book Award in Fiction in 1978. 
His stories have garnered the honors of being included in edi­tions of Prize Stories: The 0. Henry Awards and Best Ameri­can Short Stories of the 80s. 
O'Brien, who has said that, "My passion as a human being and as a writer intersect in Vietnam," turned somewhat from Vietnam in Nuclear Age, the story of a young boy dealing with the threat of nuclear war in the 1950s. 
It is this diversity which Liter­ary Festival Chairperson Kerry McArdle believes featuring O'Brien at the Festival so special. "He uses the Vietnam experience in a unique way 
' ' Ibecause through this, he expresses many universal 
' 
ideas." O'Brien will read tonight at 8 
i 
,m in the Hesburgh Library I Auditorium and will hold an in­formal discussion group tomor­row at noon in the Hesburgh Li­brary Lounge. 
l 
l 
page 10 The Observer Monday, February 22, 1993 
Women's tennis team cruises against TCU and LSU 
Irish dominate singles play, winning all singles matches 


_;l' {' 
-


The Observer Junior Lisa Tholen awaits a shot in weekend action. Tholen picked up a tough win aften a couple of hard losses against earlier opponents. 

By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

In a season of high expecta­tions for the Notre Dame women's tennis team, optimism and solid play have not always yielded positive results for the Irish. 
Going into weekend matches with Louisiana State and Texas Christian the Irish were only 2­5, but were confident that solid play and the home court advan­tage would add to victories to their record. This time, high expectations were met as the Irish cruised to victories in both contests. 
Notre Dame did not lose a singles match against either team, pounding LSU 8-1 and TCU 7-2. 
"We played well this week­end." said coach Jay Louder­back. "But not necessarily bet­ter than we have been. We've played well all season. but six of our matches have been against top twenty-five teams." 
"I was especially impressed that we were able to come out and win all six singles spots versus LSU on Friday," he con­tinued. 
Track teams compete over weekend 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Coach Piane didn't run seven Sports Writer of the top eight runners from the men's cross country team 
The men's and women's that finished 6th in the nation. track teams competed this weekend in the Indiana lnter­"Often times when you don't collegiates. The teams finished run some of your best people,
fourth and fifth respectively. the kids don't rise to the occa­The men's team scored 31.5 sion like you'd like them to," points while the women's said Piane. squad scored 40 points. 
"We had some pretty decent However Piane believes that performances," said Coach Joe this meet was beneficial be­Piane. cause it gave many of the

Eva Flood 

younger runners a good oppor­On the women's side in the tunity to compete.
the pole vault, marking the
field events Karen Harris had 

second weekend in a row that 
an exemplary performance in Looking ahead, the Irish
Grenough has vaulted 15 feet. 
the shot put, while in track come home on February 27 for Eva Flood ran well in the 3000 the Alex Wilson Invitational. 
While Notre Dame had some
meters with a time of 10:02.6. 

good performances in the Indi­
"I was glad to see Eva run­"For the men, they realize
ana Intercollegiates, the squad
ning well again," said Piane. that their backs are against
that went down to the meet did 
the wall if they want to get
not include many of Notre
On the men's side, Dan qualified for the IC4A," Piane
Dame's top performers. In fact
Grenough reached 15'.25" in said. 
The only blemish the Irish had against the Tigers was at the number one doubles spot, where freshman Wendy Crab­tree and junior Lisa Tholen were beaten 6-7, 3-6. 
"There were opportunities for ICrabtree and Tholen I to win the match, but LSU's number one team is very tough. They're ranked sixtnenth in thn country." 
Against TCU, the Irish netters flexed their musele again in the singles matches. Junior Lisa Tholen was the only player who needed three sets to overcome her opponent, beating Sam Owen of the Tigers 6-2, 4­6, 7-6. 
"Lisa really hung in there," said Louderback. "She had blisters on her feet and had a cold, and then she got down 1-5 in the last set and it would have been very easy for her to give up, but she stuck it out." 
Tholen's wins this weekend come on the heels of some dis­couraging losses earlier in the season. 
"I have been having a little bit of a confidence problem," she said, "but this may be a sign that I'm working through it." 
Louderback agreed that Tholen played differently in her matches. 
"Lisa has a style of playing long, tough matches where she grinds down her opponents," he said. "Early in the year, she was coming out and hitting hard and trying to overpower her opponents and that's not how she plays. Now she's got­ten back into her style of play, and it shows." 
Another Irish player who showed signs of improvement this weekend was sophomore Laura Schwab. 
Said Louderback, "Laura has been struggling a bit lately, but she played much better this weekend, especially against TCU." 
Schwab, playing at number five beat the Horned Toads' Pam Cruz 6-4, 6-0. 
The next match for the Irish comes this Wednesday when they travel to Northwestern. 

Navratilova defeats Seles to win the Paris Open 
'PAHIS (AP) Martina could do it. will look bad at Navratilova showed once again this one with undiluted that she isn't finished playing pleasure,"top-level tennis. 
Seles, whose previous lossNavratilova ended Monica was to Arantxa Sanchez last

Seles' 34-match winning streak August at the Canadian Open,with a 6-3, 4-6, 7-6 (7-3) 
has won 10 of 17 matches

victory Sunday in the final of against Navratilova. Seles hadthe Paris Open. At 36 years. 3 
beaten Navratilova threemonths and 29 days, 

straight times since a loss lastNavratilova became the oldest August at Los Angeles.

player to beat a No. 1-ranked Navratilova, playing in herplayer. 
third final in three weeks onBillie Jean King was several 

three continents, had made

weeks younger when she beat seven straight finals. She lost toNavratilova in 1980. 
Seles last week at Chicago.

"I was really overwhelmed 
"For her age it's incredible,"after the match," Navratilova Seles said. "But she is so muchsaid after beating a player 17 physically stronger than me. 

years her junior. "At the be­Her body is so different and canginning of the week I thought I take it. But Martina just playedhad no chance to win. But then a great match. " I made myself believe myself I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next·day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
LOST-Men's black wool dress coat  
NOTICES  during ISO party. -Was Christmas gift. Please call Chuck at #3277  
TYPING 287-4082  At the DILLON FORMAL, we  
switched long,  green coats.  Mine  
TYPING 256-6657  is blue-green with apple stitches on  
the inside. Call Molly x4121  
Used Texts Cheap  Pandora's  
in the Bookmobile  12·4 daily 233­ Lost:  Long, forest green  wool  
2342 NO Ave & Howard  coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our  
coats were accidently switched -I  
Rider sought returning from spring  have a similar, bluish-green coat.  
break in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian  Please hurry-JPW is coming up!  
3677.  Call4966.  
Did you take the wrong navy blazer  
GRE TUTOR  from the Lyons-Howard formal on  
TOM  February 6?  
288-6578  I am missing a Wimbeldon brand  
Eat the GRE for lunch Ill  blazer from that dance and  

I 
I 
desperately need it for JPW this weekend.
LOST/FOUND 
Please call nm at 1422. 


WANTED
LOST: Gold circle earnng on a dangling hook at Keenan Revue-1/28 SUMMER JOBS Call 284-5254 ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS" CAMPS LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Lost on 219/93. REWARDIII If NEAR LAKE PLACID found contact Bully at x3772. CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
LOST: heavy gold tone chain link Adoption-Active, Young couple bracelet somewhere between north wants to adopt your bundle of joy. quad and Debartolo on 215. Great Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call sentimental value . Call Liz x1345 Peggy 1-800-682-8628. 

YOI I NEED A RIDE To DE, PA. So. NJ for Spring Break Call SEAN x1605 
Looking for someone driving 
to Phoenix for spring break with room to haul a Mac SE, with printer and keyboard, to destination in that city. I'll contribute $50 toward travel expenses. Call 234-6747; leave message on machine if no one home. 
FUNDRAISER We're looking for a top fraternity, sorority or student organization that would like to make $500-$1,500 for one week marketing project right on campus. Must be organized and hard working. Call (800) 592-2121 ext. 308. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn $2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean. etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 
Ride(s) needed to Washington DC area for spring break. Flexible on date and time of departure. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call and ask for anyone at X4721 or X4758. 

FOR RENT II PERSONALS 
FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272-6306 

FOR SALE 
Women's light weight 26 in. Schwinn bike. 1 Ospeed, red, like new, $135, call 234-7035. 
TOYOTA TERCEL, blue 1981 good shape, standard. Call Scot @4013 
ADOPTION: Were you overwhelmed when you found out you were pregnant? We were overwhelmed when we found out we couldn't have children. We're a Catholic nurse/doctor couple happily married for 9 years. If you want your baby to grow up with patient, loving parents, a large extended family, & two very sweet dogs, please call Mary and Michael 1-800-759-6039. 
Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232­5843. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art. music, the best education. endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
I'm driving to Syracuse soon for 1-2 days and would rather not drive 1 0 hours alone. Want to come? Patty X4055. 
...SPRING BREAK LOANS''' 
From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 Day Loans Up to $250 @1% Interest 
Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on salt. 



~aaa--­
ftAmerican HeartV Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'rOUR LIFE 

Semi-Final Results 

Bouts 
Continued from page 16 
minute the opening bell sounded. Hall, who hasn't lost a quarterfinal bout in two years, came out throwing and landed a series of combinations. 
The second round brought more of the same. After the referee gave Hartzell an eight count, Hall landed a flurry of combinations which ended the fight at the 1:15 mark in the round. 
Things picked up again at the start of the 160-lb. division when 1992 runner-up Jeff Goddard used a quick jab to turn in the most impressive performance of the night. Ter­rence Sauvain was no match for the sophomore Ohio native, who knocked the bloodied Sauvian to the canvas at :42 in the second. 
"I didn't expect it to be that 



The Observer/ Jake Peters Karl Domangue takes a break during his bout with Matt Marr in yesterday's Bengal Bouts. Marr won in a unanimous decision. 
1993 Bengal Bouts 
easy. I had never seen him fight before, so I didn't know what to expect," said Goddard. "Things are going to be a lot tougher from here. I watched some of the other fighters and they look really tough." 
A near upset came in the 150­lb. division where 1991 cham­pion Joe Carrigan found trouble in the form of Greg Marks. 
Carrigan sat out last year due to an injury and showed a little rust. The first round was spent feeling each other out. But the second, saw the two fighters go toe-to-toe. Both landed right hooks and strong jabs, leaving the winner of the bout to be settled in the final round. 
Although Marks hung tough, Carrigan seemed to have a bit more energy saved for the final two minutes, using late punches to score points and advance to the semifinals with a split decision. 
"Marx was a strong fighter, better than I expected," com­mented Carrigan. "He landed some good shots. There is no way that he should have been the last seed in the division. I hope things get easier in the next fights." 
The crowd was one of the largest for the quarterfinal bouts in recent history. The crowd of over two-hundred nearly doubled last year's quarterfinal attendance. The move from the JACC Fieldhouse to the Arena may have had a great deal to do with it, but also the popularity of the Bouts has soured since last year. 
"I think the Bouts have really grown in popularity over the last year," said Goddard. "People are talking more about 

Graduate Student Union Elections 
The Elections, Credentials, and Procedures Committee announce the Graduate Student Union General Election to be held on Thursday March 18, 1993. Nominations for the positions of President and Vice,president will be accepted until the GSC meeting at 7:10pm on March 3. Registered graduate students interested in being a candidate for either of these positions should submit a 

..____-....::~....________.. letter declaring their candidacy to the ECP Committee, c/o GSU, LaFortune Student Center. The letter must include your name, student ID#, Department, the position for which you are running, and the signatures offive (5) registered graduate students (with ID# and department name) in support of the nomination. The duties of the officers are described in the constitution available from the GSU office, but Article IV 2&3, which describe the positions are included here for convenience; 
IV(Z) The President is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Graduate Student Union. The President is an ex-officio member of the Graduate Council and all Graduate Student Council Committees. The President and Vice-President shall present twice a year a report on graduate student 
Life and issues to the University's Board of Trustees. The President appoints and oversees the graduate representatives to the Graduate Council, Academic Council, Faculty Senate, and other policy making bodies of the University, subject to Council ratification. The President shall ensure that the appointee to these committees makes a report to CounciL The President is responsible for the fulfillment of all 
constitutional duties by the Officers. 

(3) The Vice-President shares with the President the responsibility for day-today operations of the Graduate Student Union. The Vice-President shall oversee the formation and ordinary workings of all GSU committees and Professional Development Programs. The Vice-President shall assume the duties 
of the President in the Latter's absence. In the event that the President is unable to fulfill the duties of the Office, the Vice-president shall assume the President's duties for the duration of the Presidential term. The Vice-president is an ex-officio member of all Graduate Student Council Committees. 
The President and Vice, President usually receive a significant stipend ( 4 figure). Separate elections will be held for these positions . 

185 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Rob Arreola v. Mike Faccenda Faccenda (Unan Dec.) 

• 
Haralambos Zembillas v. Bye Zembillas 


The Observer/Chris Mullins 

it and students are coming out The semifinals are slated for in large groups to support their 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the friends. It really is important Fieldhouse where 21 bouts will because it means more money fill the card. The finals will fol­for the mission." low on Friday at 8:00 p.m. back 
in the Arena. · 


FREE 
Regular 6" BLIMPIE Sub Sandwich with the purchase of any Sub Sandwich of equal or greater value. 
Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per customer per visit. Customer must pay any sales tax due. Not good in combination with any other offer. Cash value 1/100 of 1¢. Offer expires 3/31/93. 
a:t Martin's Ironwood Plaza North S.R. 23 & Ironwood 

(219) 273-2234 Fax: (219) 273-2445 
..------------------------------------•L----------------.J 
-~----------,-----­ 
-~----------------~-----~------~--------~-­.-----~~­ 
page 12  The Observer  Monday, February 22, 1993  

Stockton and Malone lead West to All-Star Game win 
SAJ;I' LAKE CITY (APJ -Utah in I 988. "It was a lot of fun." Barkley and the two baskets by in the game belied its intensity Jazz stars Karl Malone and Malone, as usual, got plenty of Jordan, the leading scorer in Stockton. underneath the basket. John Stockton gave the NBA support from Stockton, who's All-Star history with a 22.1 av­Jordan's off-balance 3-pointer "When Barkley was in there, All-Star game a local note while averaging more assists per erage, finished with 30 points, with 25 seconds left pulled the the way he was beating up the world watched Shaquille game than any player in NBA while Mark Price scored all of East to 133-130. But it didn't Scottie Pippen, it was like they O'Neal. history. Seven of Stockton's his 19 after halftime for the threaten again despite four were Angola people," a refer­
The supremely popular Salt assists were on passes to East. David Robinson scored 21 missed free throws by the West ence to Barkley's run-in with an Lake City duo sent the home­Malone, who also won the MVP points, Dan Majerle 18 and Tim in the final seconds. Angolan at the Olympics last town fans home happy with a in 1989. Hardaway 16 for the West, Jordan said the 16 3-pointers summer. grand display of teamwork West coach Paul Westphal, in which still trails the All-Star Sunday, leading the West to a his first season as coach of the series 27-16. SPORTS BRIEFS I 35-132 overtime victory over Phoenix Suns, said he took his O'Neal finished with 14 points, the East. cue from Jazz coach Jerry but 13 came in the first half as 
'Til throw out a country slang Sloan. East coach Pat Riley generally you city-slickers might not un­"Give coach Sloan credit, I just opted for the more experienced derstand," Malone said. "You stole his plays," Westphal said. Patrick Ewing and Brad ean't have the chicken without "But you can't do wrong no Daugherty in the second half the egg." matter who you put in. The and overtime. 
Malone and Stockton shared people of Utah were rooting for the Most Valuable Player them, and that may have helped O'Neal, who played just seven award, the seeond time in All­them play their best. But they minutes in the third and fourth Star history that co-MVPs were would have been MVPs no quarters. said he wasn't disap­named. matter where the game was." pointed in his 25 total minutes, 
Malone had 28 points on 11-"Coach Westphal ran our play, less than half the 53-min"ute for-I 7 shooting and Stockton 15 and that had a lot to do with it," game. assists and nine points, in­Stockton said. eluding two baskets and two "He ran it to death," Malone "It was a good experience and assists in overtime. They joined said of Stockton's pass play to I thought I did all right," said 1959 co-MVPs Elgin Baylor and Malone. O'Neal, among the NBA leaders Bob Pettit. Despite the electricity sur­in scoring, rebounding, blocked 
"If you wrote a movie, that's rounding Magic Johnson's ap­shots and shooting percentage. how it would end." Malone said. pearance after he tested posi­"I had a lot of fun. "You definitely want to do well tive for HIV, the 1992 game was in an All-Star game at home. a 40-point rout. "Shaq will be back. Don't But every time I play. I just With the spotlight on O'Neal, worry," he said. "Next year, want to play well." the spectacular rookie, and when I come back, I'll know 
It's the third year since 1987 other players, the 1993 version what to expect." that a host player has won the was far more competitive, with MVP award, and the 11th time 15 lead changes and no double­Ewing scored six of his 15 in All-Star history. Tom Cham­digit deficits. points in overtime, but the East bers did it in Seattle in 1987 "The so-called older group never recovered from 3-point­and Michael Jordan in Chicago really competed," Stockton said. ers by Majerle and Charles 
the first half," said MacLeod," nationally televised game, But then he broke loose. Cole especially one against familiar
Stars 

SPORTS DEPARTMENT
had a huge second half." foes. For despite the fierce De 
Paul-Notre Dame rivalry, each
continued from page 16 

"Brandon was a big part of played against each other in 
is now accepting applications 
it," admitted Meyer of the sec­various summer camps aroundthem by 1 I in the second ond-half comeback. Illinois in their high school 
for the following paid positions: 
stanza. 
summers, especially West­
That second half comeback Though De Paul's Windy City siders Kleinschmidt, Taylor andwas spearheaded by Cole, a 6-1 wonders captivated the home Justice.

guard who came out of Bloom crowd, Hoover did not fail to 

Associate Sports Editor 
High School in south suburban 

make his presence known, "We try play hard in every
Chicago Heights as one of the proving he's hardly a second­game," said Cole, "but we donations most prolific scorers 

Assistant Sports Editor 
rate player in the Second City. pick it up for games like these." 
(over 31 PPG all four years), 
Kleinschmidt also offered his
and three-point shooters (one of "Hoover is a pretty darn good comments on the natural ri­the nation's all-time leaders in 

Copy Editor
player," said Meyer. valry between the two pro­
three-point attempts and 
grams, based on the links be­
makes). 

"Ryan had a big game for us," tween local players and the
This season Cole has blos­

Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent 
added MacLeod, "But he's still long time tradition. 
somed, becoming the team's 

not shooting the way he's 
and a resume to George Dohrmann by 5 p.m., Monday, 
third-leading scorer at 14.3 

capable of shooting." "On the West side where I 
G 631 4543 f
PPG. Last afternoon Cole hit for 
grew up, you were either a De 

February 22, 1993. Contact eorge at -or 
18 points, all in the second half. 

These three former Paul fan or a Notre Dame fan," 
more information about any position.
and carried the Demons during 

Chicagoland prep stars defi­said Kleinschmidt, ''I'm still a.-~=======================~
the five minutes that Klein­


nitely proved their worth on a big Notre Dame football fan,
schmidt rode the bench in the 

national level on Sunday, and as and a basketball fan, except
final ten minutes. 

all admitted they gear up for a when they play us."
"We did a good job on Cole in 

~ 
I t I I I 
J 
•
' 
Career and Volunteer Options With Nonprofit Organizations 
The decision, the jobs, the challenges, the rewards. 
Two former volunteers and nonprofit organization employees will share their experiences and suggestions. 
Wednesday, February 24th 4:30 --5:30p.m. The Center For Social Concerns 
Mary Ann Roemer, The Center For Social Concerns Judy Goebel, Career and Placement Services 
y

T E c H N 0 ~,:,::::=:··· 0 G 
:

fo r R c n·:: :··· <o e·= ---M. I· R 
·:::-.·~= . 

he Office of Uni~~rsiry OJ~fu~ingirivit~ _rhe Notre Dam~,TSaint Mary's, and Holy Ctqi;s communmes to attend this Spring ~e.ties ofpresentations-on the ~,?ucational usesofcomputer and media technqlogies ....., ... 



,. ~8:ifn~ '~et;ies 


Fa'cqJtu,~rQiects at Notre name Us,{~g:tooiB~oh tor Clas~:robm Presentation an~ SrUd~nrReference 
··=: .. F~lliJMry 24,6~:::1993 • 3?3{)PM-5:00PM 
,, ;·_,:·'i\]t,:;~::ff;;r/ff: 1(~/l, Roo~'-13.8. ' Asymdrix;~-$oo1h,OOk is an aul:hppng i\x>l that can be used to create Plt~entacl.pns for the d~t()om and interactive materials tha,~~ be::used independently. Two projects will be derrionstra~d"k'J: the process of creating them will be discussed by Notre Dame faculty members. ,,_ 

~--------~--~----~~--------~------------------~----------~--------~------------------~­
Valvano returns to N.C.State 

RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -It was almost like nothing had changed at North Carolina State. 
There was Jim Valvano on Sunday, giving an inspirational talk to 12,400 Wolfpack fans. He waved to fans and posed for a picture with cheerleaders. 
It wasn't 1983, the year his team beat the odds as well as Houston and won the NCAA basketball championship. It was nearly 10 years later, and the coach and his team were ../. ~ being honored Jim Valvano 
in ceremonies prior to Duke's 91-82 victory over N.C. State. 
Valvano wasn't the same ei­ther. 
His body wracked with cancer, he didn't display that familiar swagger which was a fixture whenever the Wolfpack players took the court, or whenever he was making an appearance throughout North Carolina and the country. His steps were slow and halting, and he was slightly bent at the waist. Valvano's self-described tough hair had endured his most recent treatments, though. 
Nonetheless, it was his day, and despite rumors that his health wouldn't let him join in the celebration, Valvano made the show. Eventually, he was the show. 
''I'm at a loss for words," Valvano said, adding, "You know that's not true." 
With his wife, Pam, at his side, Valvano hugged each of the players who guided the Wolfpack to that title. He stood on a chair to hug Thurl Bailey. He also took time to greet an­
WE LOVE YOU .. 

other group of former players that included Chucky Brown 
MOM&DAD 

and Charles Shackleford, as 


Come see World Champion Pool Player 
Nick Varner 
on Februarv 24th as he plays against Notre Dame's Campus Champion 

in tlte Ballroom at 8:00p.m. 
Admission is free and popcorn will be served! ! ! 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 


Saint Maru's College (LASS ELECTIONS 



March 2, 1993 
One person from each ticket must attend an information meeting held 
Tuesday, February 23 z·oo p.m. 304 Haggar Wednesday, February 24 z·oo p.m. 304 Haggar 
well as Northwestern coach Bill Foster, who coached Valvano at Rutgers, and the man who suc­ceeded Valvano, Les Robinson. 
Football coach Dick Sheridan, whom Valvano hired in 1986, gave an introduction that was punctuated by applause. 
"Today, we are honoring more than this magnificent ac­complishment," Sheridan said. "We are honoring the pride and talent that characterizes this team." 
Then Valvano took the floor. Standing at center court in the red-and-white jump circle, he started by humming the Wolf­pack fight song, to which the crowd responded, "Go, State!" In fact, he did it twice, thrusting his right fist into the air each time. 
"That's powerful," Valvano said. "That's powerful. I missed that." 
The Valvano humor was in­tact, too. 
"When I'm at airports and I do that, they take me away," he said. 
Valvano hasn't seen his team play in person at home since he coached the Wolfpack in the trouble-plagued season of 1990. One month after that season ended, Valvano reached an agreement with school officials to step down from the job. It ended a two-year saga which started with allegations of wrongdoing in Valvano's pro­gram which were published on the dust jacket of the book, "Personal Fouls." 
He also got $613,000 as part of the settlement for resigning. 
By the fall, Valvano had resurfaced on the basketball scene, but this time as a televi­sion analyst for ABC and ESPN. It was the role as analyst that brought him back to his former home court Sunday. After 10 years of fighting basketball op­ponents and three years in an electronic exile from Reynolds Coliseum, Valvano got around to the topic which first surfaced last spring. 
"Today, I fight a different battle," Valvano said in a strong voice. "You see, I have trouble walking, and I have trouble standing for a long period of time. Cancer has taken away a lot of my physical abilities. 
"What cancer cannot touch is my mind, my heart and my soul. It can't touch those things," he added. 
He said the memories of that 1983 team carry him through his illness. It was the "Survive and Advance" slogan that went along with N.C. State that championship year. 
"I have hope that ·maybe things can get better for me. I have faith in God and in my fellow man that things might get better for me," Valvano said. 
"That team taught me that persistence, the idea of never, ever quitting," he said, his voice rising to the moment. "Don't ever quit." 
Valvano said he missed the atmosphere, the school officials, and most of all he missed the people who adopted the bumper sticker adorning cars throughout the Raleigh area which say "Jimmy V. Don't Give 
Up.,.. 

He praised Robinson, and told the crowd that at some point, he will have a championship banner to celebrate. 
"I promise you, I will never give up my fight," he said. "And I'm going to be here to see those things happen." 
Having gone through a season which has discouraged some followers, Reynolds Coliseum quickly filled up for the special moment, nearly one hour ahead of the opening tap. 
There were no posters, no special signs. There were only 12,400 people, most of which wearing Wolfpack red, trying to get a glimpse of the man who combined his brand of wit and wisdom to bring the N.C. State basketball program to a new prominence in the 1980s. 
The ceremony featured members of the 1983 team that began an odyssey through the West Regional, worked its way through a series of nail-biters, including a victory over Atlantic Coast Conference rival Virginia to reach the Final Four. 
Once in Albuquerque, the Wolfpack knocked off Georgia to reach the championship game. In the final against Houston, N.C. State rallied in the second half, and Lorenzo Charles dunked in Dereck Whittenburg's long-range des­peration shot at the buzzer for the victory and the title. 
--------~-----...... 
page 14 The Observer Monday, February 22, 1993 
·' 

Men's tennis falls to USC and Georgia, beats Texas 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Texas on Thursday. The Irish since they were upset at the talent. experimenting." Sports Writer ended up tied for seventh place hands of the Irish in the semi­The Irish picked up wins by In the first two singles slots, in the prestigious tournament. finals of last year's NCAA Mark Schmidt and Wojtalik at fourth-ranked Wade McGuire 
"We found it was a whole dif­ferent lnvel when you get up there." 
Those were the sentiments of 
Irish senior Chris Wojtalik after he and the rest of the Notre Dame men's tennis team found out 

just how tough Chris Wojtalik it is to eompete with the top ten teams in the nation at this weekend's National Indoor Championships, as they were overwhelmed by #1 USC and #3 Georgia after advancing with a win over #1 0 
DePaul 
continued from page 16 
after halftime. "We were just not working the ball in our of­fense," explained Malik Hussell, who contributed seven points coming off the bench. "Everybody was trying to take over and take the quick shot. We need to have patience, run the offense and look for the open shots." 
Notre Dame's dynamic duo, Hyan I Ioover and Monty 
Williams, continued to struggle, combining for just 11­of-30 from the field. Hoover led the Irish with 1R, while Williams had 14. 
Junior co-captain Brooks Boyer gave the Irish a boost with a career-high 13 points. "I've gotten more playing time now that we're down to three guards," said Boyer, who logged 21 minutes in the absence of 




FREE 

TANNING 

The losses dropped the Irish's 
record to 4-4. with the other 
losses coming from #11 
Kentucky and #8 North 
Carolina. 

After being awarded a bye in 
the first round on the strength 
of their number-six ranking, the 
Irish disposed of a deep 
Longhorn squad, highlighted by 
an 8-3 trouncing at one-doubles 
by seniors Chuck Coleman and 
Will Forsyth over the number­
one ranked doubles team of 
Anders Eriksson and Trey 
Phillips. 

However, after the Texas win 
the Irish stepped into the big 
time, as they challenged top­
ranked USC for the first time 
Carl Cozen (out for the season) and Jason Williams (day-to­day). 
"Confidence comes with more playing-time," said the junior co-captain, who showed poise at the line (6-for-8), and in handling the Demons' full-court press. "I'm just looking at it as good experience and trying to play my best as the season winds down." 
"Everyone's pressing real hard right now because we want to win so bad," Boyer said. "We're trying to do something extra that we don't need to do. It's not just one or two individuals but the whole team. 
"We have the ability to play with anybody-we've proven that," said Boyer. "You don't realize it when you're out there, but we always seem to have about a two-minute breakdown that pretty much kills us." 
$13t* 
$149* 
$159* 
Guatemala $165* 
Quito $169* 
•FMes are eachWf!ol from Chicago based on a roundtrip purchase. Taxes not induded and restrictions apply. Gall for other worldwide· destinations, both one Wf!o/ and rOlJldtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. DeMJom St., ~d ftoor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 

Call your FREE copy of the~ Stude~nt Trave~ls Magazine~ 
Championships. 

"We knew it was going to be 
tough after we won our first 
match," said Wojtalik, "since we 
would play two top-five teams." 
And this time it was not a happy ending, as USC disposed of Notre Dame, 6-1. 
The Trojans' deep, experi­enced lineup prevented them from becoming an upset victim again, limiting the Irish to one win by Hon Rosas at fourth singles. 
It was just a case of a superior team flexing its muscles for an Irish team that has yet to pull all of its experience and talent together into a cohesive unit, according to number-five singles player Wojtalik. 
So after Friday's loss, the Irish tried their Iuck against another team they upset on the way to the finals last year, third-ranked Georgia. 
Again their luck ran out, los­ing a 5-2 decision to a Bulldog team stacked with individual three and five-singles, Schmidt outlasting 33rd-ranked Bobby Mariencheck 6-4, 2-6, 6-4, and Wojtalik taking Hector Nevares by a score of 6-3, 7-6 (7-5), but in the rest of the matches it was all Georgia. 
The Bulldogs started by sweeping the three doubles matches, and in the process picking up the all-important doubles point. The Irish knew going in that the doubles matches would be key and they faltered against the Trojans and the Bulldogs, despite wholesale changes instituted by Irish coach Bob Bayliss. 
Wojtalik was replaced by ju­nior Hon Hosas at second dou­bles with Mark Schmidt, mak­ing room for freshman Mike Sprouse to join Jason Pun against Texas and and junior Todd Wilson against Georgia at third doubles. 
"We still haven't pieced all of the pieces together with the doubles combinations, " noted Wojtalik, "Coach Bayliss tried some different combinations, and I don't think we're done beat 19th-ranked Forsyth 6-2, 6-1, and sixth-ranked Mike Sell downed Chuck Coleman 4-6, 7­5, 6-2, setting the stage for the clinching match at four-singles. 
It was there that Niray Patel beat Hon Hosas 6-3, 6-0, which made Craig Baskin's 7-5, 6-3 win over Wilson at six-singles the icing on the cake. 
"I was disappointed person­ally with my play," said Wojta­lik, as he echoed the sentiments of most of the team. 
Despite those losses, Bayliss was encouraged by Forsyth and Coleman's big win against Texas, and Hosas and Schmidt's victory over the Longhorns' David Draper and Ian Williams. 
And the Irish are still confi­dent they can rebound and carry on with possibly the na­tion's most difficult schedule. 
"All the pieces are here to put it together," said Wojtalik, "And I think its better to be experi­menting with the lineup at this time, so we can get it right by the end of the season." 

P R I :'\ C I P L E S of S 0 L' :'\ D R E T I R E ,\\ E :'\'I I :'\ \' EST I :'\ (; 
·r:)\~
.........n ~ 

UNFORTUNATE~l; TillS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
E
very year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They
The Observer. 
PHOTO DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Assistant Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Accent Photo Editor 
' 

Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jake Peters by 5 p.m., Tuesday, February 23. Contact Jake at 631-5323 for more information about any position. 
don't take advantage oftax deferral and 
~ 

wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
s 
-~ 

could be saving for retirement.
<3' 

Fortunately, that's a mistake you canI easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. 
-~ 

SRAs not only ease your current tax­bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
J ~ 

to build retirement income-especially .!ij ~ for the "extras" that your regular pension 
~ 
~ 

~ and Social Security benefits may not 
., "'! >. cover. Because your contributions are ~ made in before-tax dollars, you pay less "<: taxes now. And since all earnings on
1 

! 
your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality oflife. 
What else makes SRAs so special? A range ofallocation choices-from the guaranteed security ofTIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. 
Why write off the chance for a more rewarding retirement? Call today and learn more about how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy many happy returns. 
~ Benefit 11m1>.from ttu: tlefetTrd. Cllll our SR.A hotlitu 1 800-842-2733, Qet. 8016. 
::: 
~ 


75 years ofensuring the future
~ 

for those who shape it:M 
0 

CREF certifu:lllt.t an iJi.rlrihuJeiJ by TIAA-CREF lniJi•iJU4/ and /n.rlituJionAI Smiru. For mort compkle informalion, inc/uJing cbargt.t aniJ up<ll.lt.l, caU I 800-842-27]], a/. 80/6 for a prwptc/UJ, ReaiJ lin ptwptclu.t cartjuUy bejort you int't.!l or J<niJ money. 
--~------------------------------------~------------------------------·---· ----------­

SPELUNKER 
IT'5 WORKING' IHE. 
R£1NCARNATOR 'f.·l{XJ() 
HAS LOC.Kf.D ONTO 
GuS's SooL IN nJE AFTERLIFE. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 



Today 
Monday, February 22, 1993 page 15 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

GUS I BUDD'/. W£LC.OME. \-lOME! 1-\0vJ DO '/OLI FeE:L"' 
BILL WATIERSON 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


'Nlli.. lHS J\lST 5~'{ \\S SW..'CJ\.IIKG 1\\~T 1<\\E.\-\T CO~£ \1'\ \-\~~1)'{ 
TODf>-'1 
62 Pair skating's relative 65 Gam or 
Hayworth 66 Library device 67 Aware of a hoax 68 Soho baby 
buggy 69 Well-groomed 70 Good or great 
finish 
DOWN 
1 Shindig 2-Ranger 3 At another time 4 Cut down 5 Poet Robert's 
flower? &"--a-dub­
dub" 7 Black cuckoo 8 Bath powders 9 Gang windup 
10Aiaska's­National Monument 
11 Lomond and 
Fyne 

SO W\111-TWt'Jt. GO\ f>­
0\0 '{()\j R£1'1\EI<\g[R" 
1-\\STC>R'I TEST, 
SR\1-\G? 
~ ~01'1115' 

28-sax 49 Steep slope 57 Sacred image 29 Requisite 50 Rocking-58 Cubs' number 30 Britain's­51 Blood vessel 59 Explosives
Guards 

52 Transferred 60 Some are
13 Counts calories 

32 Home of Rollins picture puffed up 18 Barker and Bell College 
53 Hither and-63 Nice summer 
22 U. of Maine's 36Stewpot 

55 Eyeball covers 64 Sandra or Ruby
site 
37 Long time 24 "Chances 38 Narcotic -,"Mathis hit 
40 Smallest 

Get answers to any three clues
25 Many, many amount 

pounds by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
43 West or Murray 

27 Office biggie 44 Pie --mode 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0111 
..., CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Drivel: twaddle 5 Frosh-rushing 
groups 10 Happy 14 Tops 15 Attack 16 Burt's mate 17 Vehicle with 
skilike runners 19 Teen's bane 20 Hair colorings 21 Kind of 
needlework 23 E.r.a. and r.b.i. 26 "The Sun Also 
" 27 Judge's seat 31 -tern 32 Begone start 33 Bread spread 34 Super Bowl 
M.V.P. Dawson 35 Raid 39"-Dallas" 41 More 
aristocratic 42 Thoroughly 
soaked 43 Wrestling pad 45 Baseball's 
Matty 46 Posed 47 Pub drink 48Yinand­49 Leaves 
hurriedly 52 Hon kin 54 Laugh 56 Grosse-, 
Mich. 61 Rhine tributary 


THE KING'S MANOR 
6 course meal and 2 1/2 hour show Complete with Knights in Shining mor, Fair Maidents, 
and Jousting. 
Saturday, Feb. 27 
Tickets $30 at 
LaFortune Info. Desk 



fi:tbrirg••• 

N.kk. G. . All n:a:ii.rg3will:te lElrl 
•Fe b• 21 I I IOVannl .intre Hesburgh Libracy 
•Feb. 22 Tim o•Brian  Alxlitorium.  
•Feb. 23 Gloria Naylor  Asralln:o:pt:imin  
•Feb. 24 Marge Piercy  ~~~  
•Feb. 25 Edward Albee  ~­ 




Sports 
page 16 

JIM VOGL 
All Net 

NBA is now America's real pasttime 
The NHA-it's fan-tastic! 
Thanks to NBA the efforts of 
commissioner David Stern. players 
such as Shaquille O'Neil, the media and 
team marketers, pro basketball reigns 
supreme, supplanting baseball as 
America's national pasttime. 
In the 1970's, two professional 
basketball leagues-the American and 
National Basketball 
Associations-struggled to draw fans to 
fill empty seats. Television shied away 
from expensive full-time coverage of 
games. And players suffered anonymity 
and received equally humbling pay 
checks. 
When 11naneial troubles forced the 
two leagues to merge, the newly 
formed NBA was plagued by serious 
image problems, fueled a largely 
inarticulate, faceless group of athletes 
and widosprPad drug use. 
Then came the David Stern regime. 
Tlw commissioner's first order of 
busirwss was to institute a hard-nosed 
drug and alcohol policy. The policy 
interruptPd or torminated the NHA 
carenrs of John Lucas, Hoy Tarpley and 
other stars. Hut it did succm)d in selling 
the leagtw to a family audience. Unlike 
the past, today's players live as role 
models for our country's youth (at 
least according to random urine tests). 
Stern then lobbied for improved 
network and cable TV contracts. NBC 
gambiPd on the NBA and hit the 
jackpot. The growing cable market, 
including TNT, TBS and regional 
SportsChannel stations, has also 
nmbracod the game with open arms. 
With tim league's increased air-time, 
Stern worked hard to improve player­
nwdia relations and promote the likes 
of Kareem Abdul-.Jabbar. Larry Bird 
and Magic Johnson as largPr-than-life 
personalities. Their collegiate fame 
carried over to the professional ranks, 
where they became as our nation's 
heroes. 
Each of these three extroverts proved 
to be as intelligent, articulate and 
graceful off the court as they were on. 
They began greeting young children in 
thf~ morning. appearing on cereal 
boxes and television talk shows. 
Today, the media listens to a multi­
million dollar rookie centm in Charlotte 
more often than a rookie president in 
Washington, D.C. We hear more about 
Utah's power forward with a powerful 
truck than G.M.'s financial problems. 
Stern f!Xploited the game's 
exeitenwnt in a variety of ways. 
Modern rules promote fast-paced play 
and thunderous dunks. And during All­
Star "festivities," thn media pays 
almost equal homage to winners of the 
throe-point and slam dunk eontests as 
they will the World Champions in June. 
Finally. Stern also helped the league 
cash in on the paraplwrnalia market. 
Dnsignnrs w1~re hired to target and 
linn-tunn the latest in athletic fashion­
wnar. I lat. jacket and T-shirt sales only 
further promoted the league itself, 
making kids think. "To be like Mike, 
I've got to dress likn Mike." 
David Stern's success at the NBA's 
helm liH:used on one premise-"lmage is 
nverything." 

INSIDE SPORTS 

Monday, February 22, 1993 
Blue Demons outlast the Irish, 70-62 
By JIM VOGL 

Assistant Sports Editor 
ROSEMONT, 111.-It was a carbon-copy of so many frustrating losses for the Notre Dame basketball team this season. 
At De Paul on Sunday, the Irish scrapped their way to an early lead, only to let it slip away around the eight-minute mark in the second-half. With the 70-62 debacle in front of 15,080 hostile fans at the Rosemont Horizon, Notre Dame (9­
14) has dropped nine out of their last eleven games. 
"The key is the way they came out in the second half. They really pressured us," said Irish coach John MacLeod, haunted by recent losses to the likes of Marquette, Kentucky and Duke in similar fashion. 
"Their defense forced us to play a scatter game. We took quick shots and turned the ball over," said MacLeod. "Then we tried ~? play catchup ball, and that's tough to do against a good team. 
The Irish offense showed control and patience early on, as a Jon Ross lay-in 12:24 into the game put his team ahead 20-13. Meanwhile, De Paul finished the first half with a horrendous 8­for-32 shooting performance. 
"I wasn't sure whether we were using an oversized ball or an undersized hoop, because none of our shots were falling in the first half," said Blue Demon coach Joey Meyer, whose team failed to convert on all 13 shots in the paint. "But Tommy Kleinschmidt carried us." 
Kleinschmidt poured in 18 of De Paul's 25 points in the first period, including three of three from three-point range. Then his teammates-in particular Brandon Cole and Bryant Bowden-showed up. 
Cole spearhead the comeback efforts, scoring all 18 of his points in the second period after going 0-for-7 from the field in the first frame. Bowden scored 12 (eight in the second halO and grabbed nine rebounds. 
But Meyer pointed to defense as the key to his team's turnaround. "Brandon got a couple of easy shots in the paint and started to relax," said Meyer. "But our defense turned the game around for us. The transition basket opportunities were created by our defense." 
On the llipside, the Irish lost their shooting touch (1 0-for-31) see DePaul/page 14 
Chicagoland prep stars important in the rivalry 

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

ROSEMONT, III.-Yesterday's Notre Dame-De Paul matchup at the Rosemont Horizon in suburban Chicago took on a decidedly Chicago flavor, naturally. 
As John MacLeod attempts to build the Irish into a national contender, he has vowed to build up a strong recruiting base in Chicago and the talent-rich suburban area. 
So after Notre Dame nabbed guard Lamarr Justice and forward Billy Taylor from the western suburbs before MacLeod was hired, he inked former Rockton Hononegah star Ryan Hoover to keep the string intact. 
Hoover has since become a key player for the Irish this season and their second-leading scorer. On Sunday Hoover collected a team-high 18 points, including four threes, but with a struggling supporting cast Hoover could not lead the Irish over De Paul's dynamic duo from Chicago, sophomore guards Tom Kleinschmidt and Brandon Cole. 

Tom Kleinschmidt 
Kleinschmidt was a high school All­American and one of the nation's most coveted guards out of Gordon Tech High School on the West side of the city. The Kentucky Wildcats especially coveted the 6-5 shooter, but Kleinschmidt decided to give something back to the city he grew up in by signing with the hometown Blue Demons. 
Coming out of a solid first season, graduation made Kleinschmidt De Paul's top returner and he has led the young Blue Demons all year. Yesterday was no exception, as he scorod a game-high 28 points, scoring 18 in the first half and then leading De Paul's second-half surge. 
"I le carried us on his back in the first half." noted Demon coach .Joey Meyer. "We knew we had to get the ball to him and we did." 
The Blue Demons were down by three at halftime, and Kleinschmidt set the tone for the second half in the first twenty seconds, driving the length of the court on two Irish defenders, scoring on a driving layup while collecting a foul from Jon Hoss. 
"Kleinschmidt had a big game," said coach MacLeod, "We had difficulties with him throughout the game." 
After the layup, the fiery sophomore and emotional leader thrust his fists in the air and exhorted his teammates to take control of the ball game. 
They must have been listening, as they broke away from the Irish, outscoring 
see STARS/page 12 
The Observer I Jake Peters Greg "Stretch" Marks squares off against "Joltin"' Joe Carrigan yesterday. Carrigan won the match to advance to the semifinals. 









