The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 73 TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1993 
-···-iHE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
South Shore trains collide near Gary, killing seven 
GAHY, Ind. (AP) -Two commuter trains sideswiped each other at a track merge Monday, ripping open cars "like a big razor blade" and killing seven people, an official said. More than 60 people were injured. at least three critically. 
"The glass was flying. It was a tremendous impact," Margaret McNeill, a passenger in the front car of one of the trains, said as she walked uninjured from the crash site. 
"We hung on, and there were people flying around," said Jane Mitchell, another uninjured passenger. 
Passenger Abir Khater de­scribed the chaos after impact: "There was panic and people were saying 'get out, get out,' and other people saying 'sit down. just sit down."' 
The eastbound and west­bound trains collided shortly 
A tribute to a legend 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
In the wake of minor viola­tions by a pair of prospective candidates for Student Body President and Vice-President, the campaigning process began last night at a meeting for per­spective candidates. 
Their violation was cam­paigning before the official date, February 1, according to Pete Castelli, Judicial Council President. Castelli said that they "sent a flyer showing their intent to run to a very selected group of people. They were acting out of ignorance. They didn't intentionally do anything wrong. It was quickly rectified, with very few repercussions." 
According the orders of the Ethics Committee of the Judi­cial Council. the students have written a formal letter of apol­
after 9:30 a.m. CST, said John Parsons, spokesman for Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District, which owns the Chicago-to-South Bend rail line. 
The engineer on one of the trains had been disciplined for his role as a dispatcher in a 1985 crash, said railroad Gen­eral Manager Gerald Hanas, but he emphasized it is too soon to tell if human error or a signal malfunction was to blame for Monday's crash. 
The cause of the crash was under investigation by the Na­tional Transportation Safety Board. 
About 100 people were on the trains, a two-car No. 7 eastbound from Chicago and a three-car No. 12 from South Bend, Parsons said. 
The trains crashed where tracks merge west of a trestle 

• Crash experience I page 4 
that is too narrow for two trains to pass. Both trains were mov­ing, but Hanas said flattened wheels on the No. 7 train indi­cated it had slammed on its emergency brake before the crash. It was not clear whether it came to a stop before the im­pact. 
"We look at two factors here: either human error or signal error," Hanas said.lt appeared that either one of the trains ran a red signal, or the signals at 

A South Bend community recently constructed a billboard to honor the late Edward "Moose" Krause. Krause, who passed away in December, was a longtime athletic director at Notre Dame. 


In wake of violations, election process starts 
Committee explores changes for bookstore 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
A committee of six represen­tatives from the administration, faculty and students has been formed to look into the possibil­ity of a new campus bookstore. 
The committee's current goal is to gather information from those three main sources on campus in order to try and get a picture of what changes should be made, if any, on the current bookstore. 
The committee, which is chaired by the Associate Vice President for Business Affairs James Lyphout, was formed at the request of university Presi­dent Edward Malloy due to findings during the Colloquy on the Year 2000 that exposed concerns of the bookstore not being "academic" enough. 
Specifically, the colloquy found that the university does 
ogy to recipients of the flyer. In addition, the cost of producing and distributing the flyers, about four or five dollars, ac­cording to Castelli, has been deducted from the $150 limit on campaigning expenses. 
Candidate perspectives must submit a petition by Jan. 27 with a list of 150 student signa­tures, recognizing the perspec­tive candidates a s legitimate candidates. On Feb. 1, cam­paigning officially begins. Their academic status is ac­ceptable, and posters and cam­paign material must be ap­proved by both the Judicial Council and Student Activities, according to Andrea Sullivan, an Election Commissioner along with Andrew Alfers. 
Debates will be held around Feb. 3 and they are "a good time to see what the different 
see ELECTION/ page 4 
either end of the trestle were not working, Hanas said. The signals worked when tested later, but investigators had not ruled out a malfunction, he said. 
The signals are tripped by the trains and should allow the first train to reach the trestle to go through first, he said. 
Hanas said the engineer of train No. 7. David Riordan, had been disciplined for his role in a Jan. 21. 1985, train crash in Gary that injured 85 people. Hanas said Riordan was a dispatcher during the 1985 crash. 
Riordan returned to work for the railroad as an engineer, a lower position, as a result of arbitration, said Hanas. 
Th~re was an engineer and conductor on each train in Monday's accident; none of them was seriously injured, 
Hanas said. 
Railroad officials said all four of the train operation personnel have been removed from ser­vice with pay, and all are going through standard drug and al­cohol tests. 
The accident mangled the front cars and the metal on one side ripped away. Passengers were thrown to the floor. Seats were ripped from their moor­ings."The walls were ripped open, creating an effect like a big razor blade," Gary Fire Chief Ben Perry said. 
The Lake County, Ind., coro­ner's office identified six of the dead as Logan Hoflhines, 10, of Lakeside, Mich.; Blanche An­gelov, 29, Hobart, Ind.; Julia Milencovic, 71, of Berwyn, Ill.; Glenn Harris, 37, of Michigan City, Ind.; James A. Harmon, 61, also of Michigan City; and Ruby Sarpon, 55, of Gary, Ind. 


ND senior in first train car returns uninjured 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame senior Ramira Alamilla was sleeping in the first car of the No. 7 eastbound train from Chicago to South Bend yesterday morning when a noise that sounded like a hurricane jolted her and the other passengers awake. 
"As I looked up, I heard a huge explosive noise," she said. All she could see was black dust and a gaping hole as the car in which she was riding split into two sections. 
Alamilla was in one of the two South Shore trains that collided at a track merge yesterday morning near Gary, Ind., killing seven and injuring more than 60. 
The front cars of both trains were mangled and the metal of one ripped away. 
"A man in front of me yelled 'Oh my God, Oh my God,' -sort of hysterical-and a women in 
not have a social and intellec­tual center to complement the campus, and the bookstore should fulfill this role, accord­ing to committee member Roger Schmitz, vice president and associate provost. 
The four other committee members are Kevin Christiano, chairman of the sociology de­partment, Christopher Fox, as­sociate professor of English, John Houghton, a graduate student in Midevil Studies, and Greg Butrus, student body president. 
The commitee, which was formed only recently, spent last semester trying to determine the best way to come to a deci­sion representative of the cam­pus majority opinion and de­cided upon a series of meetings with faculty, staff and students, according James Lyphout. 
These meetings will be con­ducted throughout the upcom­ing months. 
the front screamed 'Get out, get out,"' Alamilla recalled. "It was just panic-striken." 
Alamilla and the other pas­sengers were moved to the back car of the three-car train. Most of those passengers were uninjured. 
She said she didn't look at the wreckage inside or outside the train. "I dido 't want to see it." 
She was transferred by bus to Michiana Airport, where she met a graduate student who drove her back to campus. 
"It was pretty terrifying," she added. "It's hard to sum it up. I'm still numb." 
Alamilla, a Knott Hall resident assistant from Centerville, Utah, was visiting a former roommate in Chicago over the weekend, and decided to return to South Bend in the morning. 
"I couldn't believe I was sit­ting in the seats that weren't af­fected," she said. "It's amazing how close we live to death, ev­ery minute." 
An early proposition is the further seperation of the mer­chandise and clothing from the books and specific academic material, according to Schmitz. 
Also last semester, the committee visited other Uni­versity bookstores, such as that of Northwestern University, in an attempt to see how other bookstores are set up, accord­ing to Greg Butrus. 
Butrus also added that the committee has contacted the bookstore chains Barnes and Noble and The Little Professor's Bookstore to learn the role of their involvment and operation in various university bookstores. 
Exact changes, costs; and possibilities of constructing a new building have not been determined, as the committee is only in the beginning stages of gathering information and determining what campus needs are. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Returning home 
can be just as 

hard as leaving 
What do you say when a friend stops you on the -M-e-re_d__.t_h____ 1
quad to say "hi"? 

Really. Think about it. McCullough 
What do you say? Associate News Editor 
"!ley. What's up?" 
Walk. Walk. Walk. 

The old silent nod of acknowledgment. 
"0 rna gad!" !lug. "Yuh luk suuh gud." 
And if it has been a while'? 

"It"s good to see you" is always a start, fol­
lowed closely by a "No. It"s really good to see 
you. !low have you been?" 

But say it's been a really long time. Say, a semester. And say that the other person has been in another country. Then what? 
"!low was life the past eight months?" 
Hesponse: "Oh. Fine. How was yours?" 
A new semester has begun, and for most it is a 
continuation. There are new classes. New 
phones. Worse weather. But by this time, even 
most of the freshmen have found their place. 
Yet, there is a handful of stragglers who may still be a little lost. There is a handful of people who have returned to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's from London, Australia, Italy, or even Washington D.C., and by the beginning of next year there will be more. 
A great deal has happened this semester-both for the people who stayed at ND and for those who had experiences elsewhere-and bringing these two worlds together isn't always easy. 
There is a line line between living in the past and not forgetting some really great times. There is a diffemnce between sharing experiences and bombarding someone with inside jokes and "oh when I was... "s. And in the same breath there is no need not to talk about something just because both parties were not involved. 
I recently returned from London and in the short time that I have been home on campus I have seen and felt all kinds of crazy things-both positive and negative. 
I have seen friends once separated by an ocean meet in the halls and not know what to say to each other. I have seen people reunited like neither one ever left. I have heard introductions along the lines of, "This is ShAlley ... she lives in your dorm." I have become the queen of small talk. 
But the best is when things seem to click. Wlwn my friends and !-usually acciden­tally-begin to catch up. It is at this time that I can appreciate much of what happened at ND and in the US while I was gone. Similarly, my friends can appreciate that I lived away for live months. 
London was a different way of life. This doesn't mean I can no longer understand the US or that I feel like I am better than anyone else, but simply that I was able to experience a new culture and see things at home with a new perspective. 
I could easily talk for hours about how great London was for me, how much I learned, and how my views of the world have changed as a result. Some time soon I probably will. Likewise, I would love to hear about how others have fared, both on other "off-campus" programs and here at home. 
But today I am suffering from social jet-lag. There is no cure-except plenty of rest, some understanding, and a bit of time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Systems  
Katie Murphy  Harry Zembillas  
Alicia Reale  
Kenya Johnson  Viewpoint  
Jeanne Blasi  
Production  
Richard Riley  Accent  
Kira Hutchinson  Richard Riley  
Jeanne Blasi  Laurie Sessa  
Sports  Illustrator  
Brian Kubicki  Garren Gray  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer•is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Arm Evacuates 1 100 in Ti"uana 
• Tl ANA, Mexico -Authorities raced to evacuate hundreds of people using helicopters and amphibious vehicles, hoping to save them from the growing threat of mudslides and flood waters after nearly two weeks of rain. The evacuation was concentrated Sunday in areas under the brimming Rodriguez Dam in southeastern Tijuana, where water was pouring through the hatches, flooding underlying canyons.. The rain was expected to continue today. About 4,400 people have been taken to shelters since a series of fierce storms began earlier this month, said Gabriel Hosas, spokesman for the Baja California gov­ernment. 


NATIONAL 
Post-Gazette returns To Pittsburgh 
•PITTSBURGH -The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette was front-page news itself today as it resumed publication eight months after a strike idled presses at the city's two daily newspapers. The first copies of today's edition, with a lead story on the U.S. military's cruise missile attack on Iraq, rolled off the presses late Sunday. The newspaper played the story of its return on the bottom half of the front page, with the headline, "Post-Gazette presses roar back to life after eight-month strike. Teamsters drivers went on strike May 17 at The Pittsburgh Press Co., the ·oint-operating company that printed and distributed both papers.The dispute centered on the Press Co.'s plans for a new distribution network that would have eliminated most Teamsters jobs. 

Man admits student slaying 
• NORTHAMPTON, Mass. -Police closed a homicide investigation after a suspect in the 1989 slaying of a young woman committed suicide and left a confession note. Sharon Galligan, a 20-year-old University of Massachusetts student, was found stabbed to death in a car parked at a 


OF INTEREST 
• 
Summer Services Project Information Night-SSP information meeting will be tonight from 6:30 to 7 p.m at the Center for Social Concerns. Come and find out what the Summer Service Project program is all about. 

• 
A Summer Job Fair will be held tomorrow from 1 to 5 p.m. in the JACC Monogram Room. Meet with com­pany representatives to discuss internships or other available opportunities. Students should bring copies of resumes. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 18 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
252,118.100 ·0.14 to 240.33 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+0.31 to 436.84 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+3.79 to 3,274.91 
GOLD 
+$1.00 to $328.00/oz 
SILVER 
+$0.015 to 53.683/oz 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 
FORECAST: 
Mostly sunny and not as cold today with 
highs in the upper 
20s. Warmer 
tomorrow with highs 
in the lower 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  30  25  
Atlanta  54  41  
Bogota  66  41  
Cairo  63  48  
Chicago  30  07  
Cleveland  24  20  
Dallas  44  38  
Detroit  24  09  
Erie  25  14  
Indianapolis  26  10  
Jerusalem  46  34  
London  48  41  
Los Angeles  53  50  
Madrid  61  37  
Minneapolis  20  09  
Moscow  36  34  
Nashville  34  27  
New York  34  25  
Paris  46  37  
Philadelphia  37  28  
Rome  57  34  
Seanle  44  29  
South Bend  25  14  
Tokyo  45  39  
Washington, D.C.  39  32  


shopping mall. She was killed by the man who had intended to kill himself, but instead turned his rage on her, police said. The body of Kenneth Mitehcll, 34, was found Sunday in a motel room, his wrists slashed. Mitchell left a detailed, seven-page note claiming responsibility for Galligan's death, Van Flatern said. 


CAMPUS 

Notre Dame receives grant 
• NOTRE DAME, lnd.-The University of Notre Dame has received a $100,000 pledge from George Novak, a 1964 alumnus and executive vice president and director o institutional sales for the Robinson-Humphrey Company in Atlanta, to establish a scholorship fund in memory of his mother. Minnie Pigntelli-Novak. "The Minnie Pignatelli­Novak Scholorship Fund is a wonderful expression of filial devotion through which George Novak will" earn the gratitude of future generations of Notre Dame students," said University President Father Edward Malloy. The scholarship, when fully funded, will support deserving undergraduate students in need of financial assistance. Applicants will be considered by liling the standard appli­cation for financial aid as described in University publi­cations. 

Campus phones affected by outage 
• NOTRE DAME, lnd.-lndiana Bell experienced a temporary power outage Sunday between 12:30 p.m. and 
3:15 p.m. which atfectnd Notre Dame phones. The outage was caused by a power problem in the campus equipment room, according to Bob Frame of Indiana Bell & Telephone (IBT). "We have some temporary installations there, which contributed to the problem," he said. Local and AT&T long distance phone calls were affected by the outage, but the 911 lines and CTI long distance calls were not, Frame said. Indiana Bell plans to have the temporary equipment removed by Feb. 18. Any further problems with the phone system can be reported to the IBT help desk at 631-9000. 
• A Murder Has Been Committed-Student Activities needs volunteers to act in the murder mystery January 27, beginning at 6 p.m. Two students will be drawn at random. Please sign up in the Student Activities Office. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1853: Verdi's opera "II Trovatore" premiered in Rome. 

• 
In 1955: A presidential news conference was filmed for television for the first time. 

• 
In 1977: Millionaire Howard Hughes set a transcontinental air record by flying his monoplane from Los Angles to Newark, 


N.J. in seven hours, 28 minutes and 25 seconds. 
• 
In 1979: Former Attorney General John Mitchell was re­leased on parole after serving 19 months at a federal prison at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama. 

• 
In 1989: President Ronald Reagan pardoned New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner for his violations of campaign contribution laws. 







'--------------------------------~ 
-----~-------~----~ ~­ -----­ -~---~ -----~ ---­~----~~---~--­ 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993  The Observer  page3  

Senate approves funding for AnTostal concert cost 
By KENYA JOHNSON could have tried for Dana Car­News Writer vey but he would have cv~t twice as much and his tim'a Student senate approved the would have been very limited. funding of $20,000-$25,000 for With AI Franken we still have a the cost of the AnTostal Music good comedian from Saturday Concert at last night's meeting. _ Night Live but we save money," 
Student Union Board (SUB) is hoping one of the following bands will make the appear­ance, according to Pat Mc­Carthy, SUB's board manager: 
Arrested Development. Living Colour, Jesus Jones, Blues Traveler. 10,000 Maniacs. orlndigo Girls 
The price range is dependent upon the popularity of the band and the number of colleges competing for a performance by a band during the weekend of April 25th said McCarthy. Funding for any of these artists will be provided by both the AnTostal and music commit­tees. Tickets are estimated to be $5 per per!)on. . 
Other proposals presented by McCarthy which were approved are the appearances of comedian A1 Franken and Rev. Jesse Jackson. 
"AI Franken is a good choice," said McCarthy. "We he explained. 
Jackson will be at Notre Dame on Feb 5. as a part of the National Association ofCatholic Universities (NASSCU) conven~ tion. Although most funds will be covered by NASSCU, SUB will provide the cost of Stepan Center for Jackson's speech. 
In other business: 
•sophomore 
Paul Kimes was nominated and approved to re~ place Bill Dailey, who is in Lon~ don this semester, as Parlia~ mentarian for Student Senate; 

•this 
Sunday marks one year after the deaths of Megan Beehler and Colleen Hipp~ There will be a memorial mass at Sacred Heart Church at 


11 :45 a.m~; .L@ 
•the date for campaigning f&t student body president and vice-president elections is ap­proved for Jan. 3L The actual election date is Feb. 8. 

yourse-Lf at home. i.n. 'LreLand! Study abroad through the Saint Mary's College Ireland Program 
Application Deadline January 22 Application forms available in Le·Mans 109C, SMC 
For information call: Shari Overdorf, Ireland Program Counselor 284-4596 

BOG discusses smoking policy 
By COLLEEN HAGEN 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance convened Monday evening to discuss the current smoking policy in residence halls, administration offices and classrooms. 
Based on a survey taken the week before finals in the dining hall, 42% of the student body responded that there was a need to propose a smoking floor in one of the residence halls to accommodate smokers. Concern was shown over the recent study indicating the dangers of second hand smoke and its effects on students, fac­ulty and administration. 
A formal proposal will be made later in the year and any decisions made may take effect during the 1993-1994 school year, said Student Body Presi­dent Tina Carrara. 
"We're going to look over the old smoking policy, see if we want to change or amend that and compare it to the new sur­vey and see if there is a signifi­cant change," said Carrara. 
A decision was postponed re­garding the smoking policy in the library. BOG received a letter from Sister Bernice Hol­lenhorst expressing a concern for smoking student's needs and asking that a survey of the administration be taken. She also mentioned that she will check with maintenence re­garding the ventilation in the library and the feasibility of a change in policy. 
On Feb. 8, an open forum will be conducted in Carrol Audito­rium at 6 p.m. to possibly dis­cuss the smoking policy and other campus issues. It will be open to all students, faculty and administration. 
BOG expressed enthusiasm over the enrollment for the up­coming "Mission Possible" Leadership conference for Saint Mary's students this weekend. Busing was discussed for the 90 people who signed up. 

It was also unanimously de­cided that the Executive Board, excluding the Treasurer, would have frrst pick of rooms in resi­dence halls next year due to the enormous amount of time spent working on the board. 
It was decided that on April 1, an all-campus dance will be held with the theme "Destination Unknown." Raffle tickets will be sold, and the prize will be a trip for two Saint Mary's students over the week­end to a destination that is only known by two of the executive Board members. T-shirts are being sold by Cathleen Ebner at 284-5089 to support the dance. 
NO graduate works as horse-racing jockey 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Horse-racing, not the most common association with· the careers of Notre Dame English major graduates, has led to a career for Maura Carberry, '85, who makes her living as a professional racing jockey. 
Carberry has always had a love and admiration for horses, according to her father, Profes­sor James Carberry of the ND chemical engineering depart­ment. She has a talent with an­imals, and is thrilled by the challenge involved in racing, he said. 
"It's very dangerous work and you don't meet the nicest types of people," he said. "It's a challenge and she's always loved the horses as beasts." 
Mr. Carberry said that his daughter developed her interest 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
1993,94 EDITOR, IN--CHIEF 
Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and should possess solid communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editing and/or management is helpful. Previous newspaper experience is also helpful, but not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page personal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact Monica Yant at The Obseroer, 631-4542 . 
in horses when she was in grade school in Delaware. She loved riding horses and aspired to buy a pony, he said. 
Carberry said that she rode competitively in high school after beginning riding as a child. When Carberry arrived at Notre Dame, a local family friend who owned a farm al­lowed Maura to ride and groom his horses. 
Carberry received a bache­lor's degree in English in 1985, and moved to Lexington, Ky., where she wrote for Thor­oughbred Times, a horse racing magazine. However, she said that the work made her feel restricted. 
She then returned to work as an exercise rider for trainers at her home track of Delaware Park each morning, seven days a week. It was at the racetrack where she instantly felt at home, she said. 
"The moment I was on the track, I thought, 'This is where I belong,"' she said. 
Carberry said she became self-employed as a full-fledged jockey, and that in the off-sea­son she can work for up to 15 trainers, riding horses in simu­lated races and -running them through special workouts. 
Carberry is currently working at Gulf Stream Park, an elite racing track outside Miami. 
Being around the actual race horses is exhilarating, she said, as they carry an aura of power. 
According to her father, the horses are dangerous, as he cited a recent accident in which Carberry was thrown from a horse. "When they came out of the gate, the horse she was rid­ing tripped and threw her," he said. "She was pained and could hardly breathe." She sus­tained broken ribs and had to take time off from riding, Mr. Carberry said. 
In addition to the dangerous aspects of the sport, Carberry said she is uncomfortable with the gambling that keeps the sport financially viable. "Gambling belittles the horse," she said. "They are flesh and blood and they have good days and bad days, just like humans." 
Carberry said that working in the field of horse racing has been a challenge. While she would like eventually like to be a horse trainer. she hopes her current position will last as long as she is able to continue racing horses. 
"It takes a good number of years to get acclimated to the mechanics of racing as opposed to pleasure riding," she said. "The training aspect is also im­portant. It makes you look at all angles of a race." 



Back by popular demand ... 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m. , 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 


Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery 

271,1177 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
--~-~-----~-----··---·-~--------­
The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1993
page 4 


Survivors and rescuers describe the train crash 
CARY. Ind. (API -Christopher Bogers says the first due there was a problem on his commuter train was when the motorman rushed into his car. 
"I saw the driver coming back and, like, diving in a real hurried manner and I thought maybe something was wrong. And then it started to unfold in 

Man:h 14, 1960 Bakersfield, Ca. 14 
July 28, 1962 Stecll.on, PL 19front of me," said Rogers, who 
Dec. 28. 1966 Evcte~t, Mus. 13 June 10, 1971 Salem, lll. II
was aboard one of two trains 

~ 30,1972 Chicago 45 that collided Monday, leaving 
Feb. 4,1977 Chicago 11 Nov. 12, 1983 MUlhall, Texas 4
seven people dead and more 

July 7,1984 Williston, VL 5 than 60 injured. 
Aug. 2,1985 Weattninstm, Colo. 5 Jan. 4, 1987 Chue,Md. 16
"I just, I couldn't believe it 

July 31, 1991 Camden, S.C. 8 
The Observer I Chris Mullimwas happening. It was just un­
folding really slowly and then I Fire Chief. 
saw everything flying, you know 

"There was glass flying and -metal and steel flying ­metal contorting," said Frank
everywhere, so I went down." 

Zulke, who suffered cuts andPassenger Jane Mitchell re­
bruises in the crash. Luckily for called: "We hung on and there him, he was sitting on the side were people flying around." 
of the Chicago-bound train thatOne train had ripped through wasn't sliced open.
the other "like a gigantic razor "When I looked off to the left, I blade," said Ben Perry, Gary's 

Pioneer NO woman professor dies 
Special to The Observer 
Suzanne Kelly. one of the first womnn to serve on the Notre Dame faculty, died yesterday at 1\.meri<:ana Health Care Center in Elkhart, Ind., after a long ill­ness. 
A funeral Mass will be cele­brated tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. in the Lady Chap!~] of the Basil­ica of the Sacred Heart. 
A native of Tulsa, Okla .. Kelly received a doctoral degree in the history of science from the University of Oklahoma in 1964. !'he following year she joined the faculty of Notre Dame's General Program (now the 



Election 
continued from page 1 
candidates stand for," as can­didatHs answer questions from the audience, Sullivan said. 
Elections will be held on Feb. 8 from 11 a.m. -1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m., and will be organized by each hall's judicial board in the 

Program of Liberal Studies). becoming one of the first two women to receive full-time faculty appointments in the University. 
She left Notre Dame in 1971 to teach at Carroll College in Helena, Mont., and at Stonehill College in North Easton, Mass. She returned to Notre Dame in 1982 to direct the Religious Leaders Program, a course of academic and spiritual renewal for people in a variety of church ministries, remaining in that position until her retirement in 1991. 
During this period she also taught Arts and Letter Core. 
dorms, and at LaFortune for off campus students. 
Class elections will be held on Mar. I, and campaigning begins on Feb. 23. A meeting for class president candidates will be held on Feb. 16. Student Senate elections will be held on Mar. 24, and campaigning be­gins on Mar. 19. A meeting for interested students will be held on Mar. 16. 
"Portrayal of AHANAS (African­Americans, Hispanics, Asians and Native Americans) in the Media" 
with JDJr0 Alliloe 1raunt 

january 20, 1993 7:00-10:00 p.m. at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Office of Minority Student Affairs and the Lill Foundation 



King honors her father yesterday 

ATLANTA (AP) -Martin Luther King Jr.'s daughter urged people marking his holi­day Monday to honor him by keeping public officials true to their word -and she suggested that President-elect Clinton hasn't been. 
"A true follower of the prophet must point out when people say one thing during the campaign and do another, whether it's budget cuts, tax cuts or Haitian immigration," the Rev. Bernice Albertine King told 1.100 people who filled Ebenezer Baptist Church, where her father used to preach. 
"All we say, President-elect Clinton, is say what you mean and mean what you say. Let your yea be a yea and your nay be a nay." 
The day honoring the slain civil rights leader was a state holiday for the first time in Ari­zona and New Hampshire. 
In Arizona, where voters ap­proved the holiday in Novem­ber, thousands marched to the state Capitol in Phoenix. "This is a victory and commemora­tion," said organizer Gene Blue. 


The Observer incorrect} reported the details of the SuperSlbs program in a story in Friday's Observer. The program pairs an eight to 13· year-old sibling of a Logan Center client with an ND student who has one or more siblings with special needs. The Observer regrets the error.. 
Stop Smoking Now 
AP Photo Rev, Bernice Albertine King, Martin Luther King's daughter, stands with her mother, Coretta Scott King, at the slain civil rights leader's grave. 
New Hampshire Gov. Steve Merrill issued an executive order last week changing the name of Civil Rights Day to King Day. A bill to change the name permanently is pending before the Legislature. On Monday, about 200 people gathered on the Statehouse lawn for the ringing of a Liberty Bell replica. Thousands marched in Denver to honor King, while two dozen white supremacists rallied at the state Capitol. The Ku Klux 
Klan rally resulted in a few disturbances, but a large police presence prevented a re­currence of last year's melee by pro-King demonstrators, which ended with 21 arrests and businesses vandalized. 
Denver Mayor Wellington Webb, who is black, exhorted the crowd to ignore the white supremacists. ''I'm big enough where I'm not worried about someone smaller than me," he said. 

Happy 20th to our "California Girl" 
LovE, MoM, DAd, ANd STAcy 




The 1993 
'"'" ~11 SIJ 


oo.&up'' 
Saint Mary d CoLLege 0 'LaughLin Auditorium at 7:00PM on January 28, 29, 30. 




TICIETIAVAilAilE 
NOTRE DAME (NO Students only) FRIDAY, January 22 JACC Gate 10 ticket window Starting at 1:00 PM 
SAINT MARY'S (SMC Students Only) TUESDAY, January 26 at Haggar Starting at 2:00 PM 
NO LINES BEFORE NOON 
Two tickets per J.D. One J.D. per person 
-------~ ----­1 uesday, January 1~. 1~~;j 
Baghdad says 21 killed in allied attacks; Aziz defiant 
BAGHDAD. Iraq (AP) -Iraq claimed 21 people died Monday in allied air attacks in northern and southern Iraq, and a top official said the raids made it less likely that Saddam Hi.i;ge!!!'s government would cooperate ~ith lLN. weapons inspectors. 
The Pentagon said one of its planes may have shot down an. Iraqi MiG-25 while returning from the mission. An Iraqi jet fighter was shot down Sunday, shortly before a U.S, cruise missile attack on Baghdad. 
The Iraqi capital was rela­tively calm during the day, but streams of glowing anti· aircraft shells arced over the city perjodically after sundown. There was no sign of a new ~ttack on Saghd.ttd~ where Iraqi officials said three people were killed Su,nday, ...•......• 
In ttn apparent bid to b61$tfh~ his public support, Saddam 
ord~:red· an.•~ncrease ~nfo(ld;ra~•• 
tions be~nning i11 ·F~b 
· · Food. supplies have b.:le t because of ·a ttN. trade tim~ bargo inlpos~~·afte~Jraqill::; 
vaded Kuwait in 1990. , ··· 
Dtiputy Prime Mirlister·1'ih'1q AziZ issued a statement Mon­day night.blaming the crisis on the United States. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
St. Mary's News Editor 
Please submit a personal statement to Anna Tabor by 5 p.m., Monday, Jan. 19. Questions, call 631-4540 or 284-5365 
Newly Remodeled 


Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and 
1ne Ubserver page::> 
Fiedler: Germany ahead of schedule 
By JASON WILLIAMS News Writer 
Progress in German reunifi~ cation is ahead of schedule de­spite recent extremist back­lashes by German youth against foreign refugees and a state of economic chaos in the east, according to a German corporate businessman. 
Recent German youth protests are not Nazi revivalist groups, according to Manfred Fiedler, vice president of Human Resources for International Home and Building Control of Honeywell Inc. Rather, the demonstrations are a new wave of political activity developing after the fall of communism in Eastern Europe. 
"With communism gone, hy­per-patriotic nationalism seems to be an attractive alternative," Fiedler said. "The recent vio­lence shows the frustration the young have with increasing unemployment and cut backs of social services." 
Fiedler offered statistics that showed Eastern European refugees are currently flowing into Germany at the rate of 5,000 per week. Four million refugees have arrived in Ger­many since 1989. 
Currently Germany is looking for westerners to invest in the east in order to balance the strong economy in the west. Aithough a total of 8,000 pri­vate companies exist in Ger­many already, Fiedler said many investors are reluctant to back eastern corporations due to several risk factors. 
"Eastern goods are just no good anymore. They're out­dated," he said. "There is also absolutely no customer services in the east either." Environ­mental woes plague the east. 
"There was a lack of funds under the communist govern­ment to accurately monitor pollution," Fiedler said. "Consequently the air, water and everything else is very badly polluted." 
Despite these problems, Fiedler said the immediate costs and problems with reuni­fication are quickly being elim­inated by an upswing in the German economic forecast. The potential to be the economic giant in Europe coupled with an emotionally-charged citizenry after reunification has many Germans feeling confident. 
"There is a strong demand for everything by the east," Fiedler said. "There is a real rage in consumer spending. There is huge investment going on, but compared to the problems they have it is not enough." 
Arabs back away from Allied alliance 
NICOSIA. Cyprus (AP) -Arab states, appearing to back away from their wartime alliance with Western nations, on Monday criticized the allied at­tacks on Iraq but stopped short of lining up behind Saddam Hussein. 
They questioned why Ameri­can resolve to enforce U.N. resolutions regarding Iraq has not extended to those concern­ing Israel or Bosnia-Herzegov­ina. 
The fear of Saddam's ag­gression that built the Persian Gulf War alliance between Arabs and the West was offset by the feeling that President Bush was overstepping his U.N. mandate with the renewed raids. 
The Cairo-based Arab League said it "regrets the policy of military escalation against Iraq . . . which extended to the bombing of Iraqi civilian tar­gets inside Baghdad and led to the killing and wounding of civilians among the brotherly Iraqi people." 
It affirmed its support for Iraqi sovereignty and territorial unity, but also called on Bagh­dad to withdraw its police from Kuwaiti territory -which Iraq did on Sunday -and respect Kuwait's independence. 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
Friday Fellowship Time 
7:00 p.m. Friday, January ZZ 
Questions? Call Kevin X 1384 or Lisa X4290 
It also urged the United Na­tions "not to use double stan­dards" in implementing its resolutions so as to avoid a "loss of confidence" and nega­tive reactions in the Arab world. 
"It is necessary to adopt a policy of self-restraint and use the language of dialogue," a statement by the 21-nation league said. 
King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, who put his country's bases at the disposal of the allied jets carrying out the raids, said 
U.N. Security Council resolu­tions must "be respected and implemented ... whether they pertain to the situation in the Gulf or the Palestinian case and that of the deportees, or that of the nation of Bosnia-Herzegov­ina." 
He referred to resolutions demanding Israel take back more than 400 Palestinians it deported to Lebanon and urg­ing protection for Bosnian Muslims from attacks by rebel Serbs. 
Farley 115 Come for singing, fun and fellowship 

'93 ... '94 school year Call 232 ... 8256 for info and scheduled showings  Calling All Clubs/Groups $Earn Serious Money$ Your fraternity, sorority or other campus group can easily earn $400 PLUS BIG BONUSES in one week. You pay nothing. Call 1-800-735-2077 ext. 180  ,. Sunny's Kim Cheef)f.1!,~~~!~·)j#k:J Garden Patio Korean Restaurant introduces a great new offer! Lunch buffet special offering only Korean ana Chinese food. Monday through Saturday (starting Tanuary 21) 11:30 -2 p.m. only $4.CJ) Sunday buffet with braised hot p_ork, marinated vegetable soup, and Kim Chee rice 12:30-7 p.m. only $8.50  

7:00pm January 21, 1992 room 138 DeBanc~o HaU 

A reception outside 138 will immediately follow the presentation 
An Insider :S View ofa Dynamic Industry Presented by Gary Gigot, Vice-President for Marketing 
dynamic multi-media presentation addressing the 
challenges of marketing new technologies in the computer software i~dustry. An insider's view of how the world's leading software maker, Microsoft Corporation, achieves success in product marketing. 


0 effects ofa dynamic PC market 
f) evolt•ing distribution channel., 
:....................................·····~ 
@ end user derruuul 
0 process and strategyfor successful marketing 
You have to come and try this delicious and healthy food. Sunny's 512 S. Spring Street Mishawaka 
(219) 255-5274 

Happy Belated 21st Birthday 



Kathleen Scanlan 

ENOUGH SAID! 


.--~------------~------------~--------------~-----~------. 
page 6 



Clinton vows to learn lessons from MLK 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Thou­sands of ordinary citizens surged through this capital Monday for music, parties and celebrations as Bill Clinton paid a nostalgic visit to his former campus. He vowed to learn from Martin Luther King Jr. in ascending "the mountaintop of American democracy." 
The president-elect made his pre-inaugural rounds with high spii'its, despite nP.w U.S. bomb­ings in Iraq. 
"We have much work to do against stiff odds without a day to waste," he said in a speech on the slain dvil rights leader's birthday. 
Just two days from being sworn in, Clinton touched a va­riety of bases, both old and new -students, diplomats, ordi­nary Americans he'd met on the campaign trail -as he moved about his new neigh­borhoods. 
But the events took on a life beyond Clinton's own furious pace of visits around the city: 
•Some 5,000 onlookers 

chanted "Hillary, Hillary," as Clinton's wife stopped by a string of tents along the Mall from the Capitol to the Wash­ington Monument. The salsa­rock group Los Lobos played as she examined crafts produced by special education students from Chicago. She and a holi­day crowd strolled through music performances, craft ex­hibits and food stalls. 
•Dinner 
parties were set in every hotel and in private homes from prosperous Ge­orgetown to Capitol Hill. Clinton himself was stopping in at four large inaugural dinners. 

•Some 
17,000 paid for seats at a suburban sports arena to see a preview of the entertain­ment Clinton will view at a black-tie gala Tuesday night. 

•Along 
the Pennsylvania Avenue route of Wednesday's inaugural parade, the manhole covers have been welded shut and bulletproof glass panels put in place. 


Clinton still assembling Security Team 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Fewer than 48 hours before he as­sumHs command of U.S. forces in combat, Bill Clinton has named just a handful of his de­fHnse and foreign policy advis­ers. The slow pace of filling those jobs could make it difficult for him to change U.S. policy toward Iraq, Somalia and Bosnia. 
"r don't see how you can make major changes without people," said Lawrence Korb, an assistant secretary of defense during the Reagan ad­ministration. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said on ABC-TV Sunday that the transfer of power at 12 noon EST Wednesday, ought to be a "seamless web," flowing uninterruptPdly from the old to the nHW. 
But he went on to suggest that would be difficult without a new team ready to step in. "There are 45 Senate-con­firmed posts in the Defense Department, and so far only one's been filled," said Cheney, -, referring to his successor, Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis. 

A Clinton transition source said the criticism was overblown. 
"The Clinton National Secu­rity-Foreign Policy team has been together and meeting for some time, and quietly as is appropriate," he said, speaking only on condition he not be identified. "The top of the team is in place and working and prepared to deal with these hot button issues." 
Janne Nolan. a foreign policy analyst at Brookings Institution who opted not to join the Clin­ton administration, said a new 

WALLI COLLINS 
the host of Comedy Central's Stand Up, Stand Up 

WED. JANUARY 20 8 pm The Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) 
$3 General Admission $1 w/ Winterfest Wristband 
Tickers and/or Wristband sold ar LaFonune lnfonnarion Desk 

IT1JD&NT UNION IOAI.D 
The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1993 
Americans hopeful on eve of change 

(AP)-On the eve of the Clinton era, Mila Shpak was busy selling flounder and carp at her market in Brooklyn. Behind her a sign warned: "We do not ex­change fish." 
Briefly, the 31-year-old Rus­sian-Jewish immigrant turned her thoughts to the next presi­dent. 
"He seems OK," she shouted above the noisy racket of cus­tomers, ehwated New York City trains, and the pounding knives of workers whacking off fish heads and tails. "But, you know, everybody seems OK -before they start doing something." 
Associated Press reporters visited spots around the country in recent days to take the nation's pulse on the advent of a new presidency, asking people how President Clinton may touch their lives. 
They found Americans a little hopeful and even giddy, a little wary and, occasionally, dis­missive. But take 250 million people· aching for optimism and you've got a country brimming with expectations that skate on the edge of disappointment. 
This is normal. 

"We know no president is 
administration comes under enormous pressure in the ap­pointments process to "play musical chairs rather than give careful consideration." 
She said the greatest danger was to "pick the wrong people who don't work well together." 
Pentagon sources confirmed Monday that key officials such as crisis manager Paul D. Wol­fowitz plan to leave office with President Bush at midday Wednesday. 
At the State Department, sources said Edward Djerejian will remain temporarily as as­sistant secretary for the Near East. 
going to be a miracle man, but we also hope for min~cles," said Georgetown University Professor Stephen Wayne, who writes college texts on the presidency. 
Count Arthur Skibbe Jr. among the realists. 
"He's gonna need a lot of prayers," said Skibbe, 58, a machine operator and Korean War veteran nursing a beer at the VFW Post 98 in Indianapo­lis. "He's got a hard task ahead of him. I'd hate to be him." 
With retirement two years away, Skibbe didn't feel his life would be changed one way or the other by the 42nd presi­dent. Still, he offered the man a modest endorsement. 
"A young president is what this country needs," Skibbe said. 




Campus Bli»le Pellowsblp
at St. Mary's College 3S6 Madeleva Hall Tuesdays 7:00 p.m. 
COME JOIN US! 
For more information call: 
Lea Anne Christy 284-5243 284-4160 Steve & Charlene Brent 272-8890 634-3562 
ATTENTION 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JUNIORS! 
Come find out about Summer Internship Opportunities in Information Systems at The Travelers. 
SUMMER JOB FAIR Wednesday, January 20, 1993 Monogram Room, JACC 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
* 
Please bring resume and transcript. 

* 
Interviews to be held January 21, 1993. 

* 
All positions will be located in Hartford, Connecticut. 


TheTravelersr' 
You're betteroffunderthe Umbrella.® 
tO 1992 The Traveler.; Companies, Harford, Connectirul 06183 An l~ual Opportw1i1y Employer 





Business 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

Steel mills to be divided 

• BURNS HARBOR, Ind.--Bethlehem Steel Corp. is close to announcing the division of its two largest mills into separate companies, a spokesman says. The mills would still be owned by Bethlehem hut would operate more independently and with more local control, said spokesman Henry Von Spreckelsen. The formal announcement affecting the Burns Harbor and Sparrows Point. Md., mills is expected within days. Von Spreckelsen said . some managers already have transferred from corporate head~ quarters in Bethlehem, Pa., to the flat products mill at Sparrows Point and to the plate and rolled sheet mill at Burns Harbor, the company's only profitable operation. 
Bayh for Medicaid change · · 
• INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's Medicaid costs would be cut at least $3 million a year, mostly in unneeded emergency room costs, if eligible children, pregnant women, and infants have regular family doctors. Gov. Evan Bayh said today. The state will seek federal permission to move to a system of "managed health care" that would require those patients to have family doctors, the governor said. Indiana must show the change would save money before the federal government, which shares the costs of providing health to the poor, agrees, he said. Currently, Medicaid pays for non-emergency visits to hospital emergency rooms. The new system would reduce the number of emergency room visits for non-emergencies by having patients consult their doctors first, Bayh said. 

Deal for Chinese assembly of GM minivan 
• DETROIT -General Motors Corp. is dose to a deal in which up to 150,000 Chevrolet Lumina minivans would be assembled and sold in China, according to a published report Monday. Thomas McDaniel, GM's vice president of Asian and Pacific operations, said the leading automaker could sign an agreement with an unidentified supplier in southern China within the next few months, the trade journal Automotive News said. Partially knocked-down kit assembly of 3,000 to 4,000 minivans would begin shortly after that, according to the report. "We're seeing considerable interest -an enormous amount of interest -in !local assembly ofl the APV in China." McDaniel told Automotive News. "There seems to be a very strong preference in China for the Lumina over competitive vehicles," he said. "The Chinese apparently like it better than Americans do." 

Clinton: No automatic budget cuts 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Bill Clinton's likely first response to the colossal federal deficit will be to bypass the old system of automatic budget cuts. 
The law says that on Thurs­day, Clinton's second day in of­fice, the president must declare whether he will revive the old formula that automatically trig­gered huge budget cuts if an­nual deficit targets were ex­ceeded. 
Clinton is expected to an­nounce that he will not restore the system, according to transi­tion team aides, lawmakers, congressional budget analysts and lobbyists. 
Out of fear of locking in bud­get cuts he might not wish to make, Clinton will put his re­liance on his still-evolving, deficit-reduction plan, they say. 
Republicans hope to make headlines with the expected Clinton decision. They believe that would show he is indiffer­ent about reducing the short­falls, which President Bush's Office of Management and Budget believes will hit a record $327 billion in fiscal 1993, which runs through Sept. 30. 
Officials said Friday that they believed Clinton had so far made no final decision. 
"I'd assume he would not" restore the deficit targets, the incoming chairman of the House Budget Committee, Rep. Martin Sabo, D-Minn., said 

Russian Prime Minister lifts Soviet price controls 
MOSCOW (API-Hussia's new prime minister on Monday retracted his order imposing Soviet-style price controls, tak­ing a step that an aide said "proves the new government's commitment to reform." 
Deputy Prime Minister Boris Fyodorov, in charge of economic policy, announced the step at a news conference and said Prime Minister Viktor Ch­ernomyrdin had agreed to it. Fyodorov called Chernomyrdin's Jan. 1 decree "a bureaucratic mistake," echoing criticism he aired publicly last week. 
Chernomydrin, a Soviet-era industrialist who rarely com­ments to the press, was absent from the press conference and did not issue a statement. 

The new order "uses some tough wording, in particular forbidding central executive bodies from regulating prices on an administrative basis," Fyodorov told reporters. 
Controls will remain only on some monopoly industries, he said. 
The announcement of the rollback clearly was designed to assure Russian reformers and their Western backers that the appointment of Chernomyrdin did not mean a return to Soviet­era central controls. 
Fyodorov, a member of the month-old government ap­pointed by Chernomyrdin, said the Cabinet would strengthen the ruble. But he categorically opposed a return to the Soviet­era system in which the state set currency exchange rates. 
Fyodorov also said the gov­ernment eventually would allow the domestic prices of Russian oil and other energy products to reach world levels. 
Many Russian and Western officials had expressed concern last month after President Boris Yeltsin, responding to pressure from parliament, replaced reformist Acting Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar with Ch-
Pentagon officals review bailout 
WASHINGTON (API -Air Foree Secretary Donald Rice is ordering a review of officials who allegedly awarded nearly $500 million to McDonnell Douglas Corp., in an improper bailout of the troubled defense company. 
A report by the Pentagon's inspector general has recom­mended disciplining three of the officials, whom Pentagon and congressional sources identified as two Air Force generals and the service's former head of procurement. 
The report concluded that they violated government pur­chasing guidelines in making the payments to McDonnell Douglas' C-17 military cargo jet program in 1990. when the nation's biggest defense con­tractor was in poor financial shape, according to the sources. 
"While we are not prepared at this time to comment on the report's validity, I will direct an independent review to provide a factual basis" for action by the Pentagon, Rice said in a statement. He said the report by Inspector General Derek Vander Schaaf recommends disciplinary action against sev­eral individuals, whom he did not name. 

The report will not be publicly released until McDonnell Dou­glas reviews it. Its conclusions were first reported Monday by the Los Angeles Times and The Wall Street Journal. 
Defense Department spokesman Glenn Flood de­clined any comment Monday, as did spokesmen for Vander Schaaf's office and the Air Force. 
McDonnell Douglas also de­clined comment on the report. Spokesman Pete Sloan said the company had received copies over the weekend and had not had time to review it. 
"We'll have to look at it to de­termine if there is any propri­etary or company-sensitive in­formation in it," Sloan said in a telephone interview from the company's headquarters in St. Louis. "We need to take a good, thorough look at the report. ... We won't be driven by the cal­endar on it." 
McDonnell Douglas was "paid only for work performed" under its contract with the Air Force, Sloan said. 
The inspector general's report said Air Force officials funneled money to the company's troubled C-1 7 program by shifting contracting funds and accepting incomplete aircraft, according to the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The report concluded that the Air Force officials created a so­phisticated cover-up of their actions, including overly opti­mistic reports about the progress of the C-17 program, the sources said. 
"We will deal with each of the allegations in the report to the fullest extent of the authority of Congress," said an aide to Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich. 
Bill Clinton 
earlier this month. 

''I'd think there is a better chance that that would occur than the sun would rise on the 20th," said another of the offi­cials, who, like most others, spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Headlines have already been made as Clinton's advisers have said it will be hard for him to honor his campaign pledge of halving the shortfall in four years. They have blamed new, higher deficit projections. 
Republicans say restoring the system of automatic budget cuts is the best way to pressure Congress and the administra­tion to confront the budget problem. If revived, the deficit ceilings would be in effect for fiscal 1994 and 1995, the first two years for which Clinton will write budgets as president. 
"You have an opportunity to take the initiative and demon­strate that you intend to act on your stated deficit-reduction goals," House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill., and Rep. John Kasich of Ohio, ranking Republican on the House Bud­get Committee, wrote Clinton in a letter Thursday. "We would applaud and join you in that effort." 
"If he doesn't have a multi­year program that's real" for reducing the deficit, the deficit targets should be restored, said Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico, ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee. 
Under the latest Bush admin­istration projections. restora­tion of the deficit targets would force $9 billion worth of spend­ing cuts in fiscal 1994, and $30 billion in 1995. 
Those across-the-board cuts, half on defense, half on domes­tic programs, would be avoided if lawmakers and the president enacted budget savings of those amounts on their own. 
But many Democrats say re­viving the old system, first in­stituted under the defunct Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduc­tion law, would needlessly lock Clinton into deeper cuts than he might want to make in 1994 and 1995. 
Some also say that with the deficit targets restored, Repub­licans could vote against any budget-cutting package Clinton produces, probably containing tax increases, and know that forced spending cuts would re­sult. 

ernomyrdin, a veteran of the Soviet oil and gas bureaucracy. 
Chernomyrdin fueled those anxieties by issuing a New Year's decree setting limits on profits of 15 percent on all manufacturers of such staples as bread, macaroni, tea, salt, sugar, milk, meat, butter, sausage, baby food and vodka. 
Heferring to the New Year's decree, Fyodorov said that "many saw it as a retreat from reform, which cannot but worry the government." 
Reversing the decree, he said, "proves the new government's commitment to reform and its determination to follow this course while at the same time using some new methods and work together with other government bodies in this country." 
The government, he said, planned other measures to force state-owned enterprise to be more efficient, as well as steps to curb inflation, which government officials say hit 2,000 percent last year. 
"This newest resolution clearly says that the govern­ment is determined to intensify its inflation control measures, the measures to stop the eco­nomic disintegration, seeking to expand market regulation instruments," he said. 

Manville Corp. faces Canadian claims 
NEW YORK {AP)-Manville ·Corp. thought it left its troubles over asbestos behind 
·when it ~l!lerged frqm bankruptcy f(}.ur years ago, but it now faces .its first foreign challenge to. a shield against asbestos-related lawsuits. 
The trust fund that handles Manville's a.Sbestos cases said litigation in Canada could trig~ ger a "worldwide run" on Manville's assets. The trust is lobbying the U.S. government to ask Canada· to honor the in~ junction bart~g asbestos law~ suits against Manville. 
Manville denies that lawsuits filed in a Vancouver, British Columbia, court pose any fi­nancial threat. But ·the 
.. situatioh reflects how tlie former asbestos titan still•is struggling against its past despite emerging from Chapter 11 in 1988. 
A Manville spokeswoman on Monday (lisavowed letters written last month by the trust's lawyer. David Austern. that raise the specter of widespread claims on Manville's more than $660 million in foreign assets, including about $7 5 million in Canada. Manville operates in 12 foreign countries. 
In a Dec. 4 letter to U.S. Dis­trict Judge Jack Weinstein, Austern wrote: "We share Manville's concern that if the current situation in Br.itish Columbia were made public, we could experience a world­wide run on Manville's over­seas holdings." 
"We have very serious doubts about our ability to successfully defend such a global assault," he said. 



Viewpoint 
page 8 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ..•••....•..•.•....... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor... Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Economic issues 



Foreign lobbyists should stay at home 
are also moral 

Dear Editor: tration, was not chosen as trade lation does not pass or only in a per year on lobbying activists in 
During his first infomercial representative because watered-down form. the United States. That nation concerns for U.S. last Odober, Hoss Perot brought numerous foreign corporations Naturally, another drawn-out is Japan. The money is spent one of the most serious yet and governments thought that sequence of lobbying occurs on direct lobbying of Congress Dear Editor: unknown problems in our he would be too tough on them when it comes time to enforce and the President, "friendship" I agree with Hick Acker's gen­government to the political and their lobbyists managed to such legislation as happened groups designed to create posi­eral thesis that intellectuals forefront: the scourge of for­convince the Clinton team that with the Super 301 Clause of tive images of Japan and dona­and others should not pose as eign lobbyists. lie listed dozens he was not suitable for the posi­the 1974 Trade Act and the tions to local charities and ser­experts outside their fields. of former top government of'li­tion. Such is the power of for­1988 Omnibus Trade Bill. It is vice groups even though they do However. his usn of the U.S. eials that, after leaving oflice, eign lobbyists. no wonder that our trade deficit not make such contributions at Bishops' pastoral letter on the had gone to work on behalf of Hoger Altman, Clinton's is $130 billion. home. American economy as an ~~x­foreign corporations and gov­choice for Treasury deputy sec­Many foreign companies lo­Obviously, it has been money ample is misplao~d. nrnments, taking their inside retary, is a Wall Street invest­cate factories in the United well spent as seen by our $50 The bishops' pastoral letter knowledge and formidable ment banker and former head States so that they can exert billion trade deficit with Japan. on "Catholic Social Teaching connections with them. of the Blackstone Group, an in­additional pressure on our gov­their large-scale purchase of and the U.S. Economy" is fun­
During thn campaign, Perot vestment group which aided ernment, often shielding U.S. companies and real estate damentally a moral document. stressed that his was the only foreign corporations in acquir­unethical or questionable trad­and their overall subversion of It is not a treatise on nco­campaign untainted by foreign ing U.S. banks and companies. ing practices of their own or our economy while protests of nomics. The lntter argues that PAC mmwy and he character­The lower ranks of the Clinton their nations. In this manner, their activities are few and usu­concern for human dignity in ized the oflkials of the current administration will also be rid­foreign investment is mainly a ally futile. These and even soeial solidarity is at the core of administration as "lobbyists on dled with "lobbyists on leave." Trojan Horse since it is done more shocking tales are re­Christian faith. Economic insti­Ieav1~." This is because there is What's so bad about foreign primarily to circumvent trade counted in the book Agents of tutions and policins have a ma­a high transfer rate between lobbyists anyway? The answer restrictions and to create public Influence by Pat Choate. It will jor impact on human dignity. the government and lobbying is that they are giving foreign relations illusions. make you want to cry. The bishops argue that evnry professions and nearly all of governments and corporations Foreign Political Action Nowhere else in the world do perspective on nconomic life them usn their government ties a frightening degree of control Committees (PACs) have begun outsiders have as much access that is human. moral and to improve their lobbying over our political processes and contributing heavily to our to the political and economic Christian must be shaped by clinntnle and effectiveness. our economic policies. Any elections and the candidates system as in the United States. three questions: What does the 
Throughout the campaign. legislator formulating bills un­they back usually win. What This fact is being exploited daily economy do for people'? What Bill Clinton promised us change, favorable to foreign companies this all means is that too many by foreigners as they seek to does it do to p1~ople'? And how including in the area of lobbyist is immediately bombarded by of our crucial national decisions flood us with more of their do people participate in it'? reform. Sadly, his Cabinet lobbyists, company oflicials and are being made overseas and goods and to buy more of our We must pay attention to the appointments do not rnflect even U.S. workers, oflicials and we continually view the detri­assets. economy's impact on the poor such a commitment. lie has politicians who have been mental effects of such a loss of Lobbyist reform. particularly and powerless. In addition. the filled the two top posts that deal coerced by these foreigners or control. when they represent foreign bishops' committee included with foreign trade with ex­who feel that some speeial in­Hoss Perot, in the last Presi­governments and corporations, economists as advisnrs, they foreign lobbyists who haV!~ al­terest of theirs is also threat­dential debate, spoke of one is long overdue. Clinton has held dozens of hearings over a most no nxperif'nce in trade ened. All too often such legis-nation spending $400 million talked of such reforms such as period of five years with 
matters. These are Hon Brown for Commerce Secretary and Mickey Kantor as Trade Hepre­snntative. 
This is exactly the kind of problmn that has plaguml our trade policy for years: too little nxperience and interest in their an~a. Both of thesn men mainly got tlwir appointments as political paybacks from Clinton. Clydn Prestowitz, an expnriencnd ex-tradn negotiator from the Beagan adminis-

NESBURY 

50 WHO's NOlHOIAI I'M ME&TINJ WITH 
Ya.JR FAIRY a3UGHT­HE3R. 70PAY. IT'5 
GOPM07H8R RJ/.-.17H& WCIRP, I'V&HARaY 
OVE3R.AT OL/?6/RL­SI3£NANYOFMY 
JU571C&, Nfft«JRI<! CLASS11A7ES SINCE 
PI3AR? \ 6RAPUATIN6... 
I \ 
restricting government officials economists of every persuasion, in their post-Administration labor union leaders, bankers, employment. Many ex-Bush corporate CEOs, welfarn Administration officials will mothers, and they wrote three probably be returning to lobby­drafts that wen~ submitted to ing soon. This kind of change all 200 plus bishops and to the 
needs to be enacted immedi­public for diseussion, feedback ately before more jobs and in­and rewriting. dustries are lost. Do we really The economic policy section of want our destiny determined in the letter was intended to Tokyo or London or Hiyadh? stimulate debatn. It was to be Jeffrey O'Donnell the first word not the last. Grace Hall 
Charles K. Wilber Jan. 14, 1993 Department of Economics Jan. 17,1993 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

TH~ THING I REM&MB&I<. M05TABOUTI.AUJ 5CHCXJL­ABOUT WA58£31NGWORR/W. MY lA/HAT? WH0/.8 LA5T !VIR, I a/AS me. COV57ANTt-Y womw BAR<> 
A80UT... aJEU .,. r----" 
\ 

'Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.' 
Confucius 

QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 




Accent 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 page 9 

Notre Dame-Australia is the newest foreign study program at Notre Dame 
By HEIDI WEBER AND SEAN 
FARNAN 
Accent Writers 
The Notre Dame-Australia (NDA) program is one of the newest offerings through Notre Dame Foreign Studies. 
Besides the program's academic challnngns, students have choices such as these to make every day. The program is based at the University of Notre Dame-Australia in the port city of Frnmantle, Western Australia. Last semestnr NDA catered to junior year business students interested in interna­tional business and this semester it serves primarily junior year Arts and Letters students. 
FacHd with an unfriendly welcome from the weather upon arrival in Fn~rnantle in late August, the Notre Damn students endured cold, rain, and even a hail storm during the first week. Since then. record lows for the coldest September in history as well as the coldest October day were set. 
But shortly after these records were set. the weatht~r warmed up to merit trips to the beautiful coastal beaches within easy walking distance. By the end of November. the mercury in the thermometer reached 105. 
The Notre Dame students reside in the Port Lodge, the only present Notre Dame-Australia dormitory, and are kept in line by rector Brother Bill Greening. On any given night, a handful of "cooks" make pasta, prawns (the Australian term for shrimpl or some other meal in the community kitchen which is in the 36-room dorm. 
Otherwise. the weekly food stipend allows the students to frequent the multitude of quaint restaurants and cafes lining the streets of Fremantle. 
Free time in the dorm is spent 

~The. Uni~er1ity of Notre Dame Australia 

improving billiards skills, playing darts, watching late night movies, and listening to the stereo in the large common room. 
The University, located just down the street from the Port Lodge, consists of several old Fremantle warehouse build­ings which have been recently renovated. Besides the Port Lodge, the University consists of one classroom building with a library, a computer lab, a "bookstore," and an administration building, which served as the headquarters for a British syndicate in the 1987 America's Cup Challenge. 
NDA is the first private Catholic university in Australia. Through the current Diploma of Education program for Australian high school teachers, the 
'Hoffa' entertains yet masks the person behind the persona 
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
Jack Nicholson and director/co-star Danny DeVito bring life to Pulitzer Prize 
winner  David  Mamet's  gripping  
screenplay "llof'fa."  
Nicholson  stars  as  the  powerful  

Teamster boss. whose turbulent career is followed over the sweep of four decades-from his passionate struggle for power to his final enigmatic fall. 
DeVito elects to reveal the story of Hoffa in a series of retrospective tales. The audience is introduced to Hoffa during the twilight of his reign as a union oligarch. 
Nicholson plays the wearied and brutish .lames R. Hoffa who is a hero to many, and a source of intrigue to all. 
DeVito is to be commended for not "Jiollywood-izing" Hoffa's character-the film portrays Hoffa as something more akin to a societal pariah than a national figure. And yet, even though the audience sees Hoffa's vices as well as his virtues, it is difficult not to respect his accomplishments. The physical resemblance between 
Hona 
Produced By Edward R. Pressman and Danny DeVito Directed By Danny DeVito Starring Jack Nicholson, Danny DeVito and Armand Assante ** (out of five) 
Hoffa and Nicholson is startling, but it is DeVito's combination of fact and fiction which gives rise to both an entertaining film and a failed endeavor. 
Scenes of elaborate rendezvous with underworld overlords (i.e., Armand Assante) and graphic displays of fierce conviction, augmented by the use of slow motion (which always tends to add a sense of importance to a particular se­quence) and captivating cine­matography, produce a work which is enjoyable. 
However, where the film fails is with its treatment (or lack thereof) of the person behind the persona. One never American foreign study program, and plans for a permanent business and law school, the university hopes its student body will grow from its first year's enrollment of approximately 100 students. 
"The Diploma of Education students really made us feel at home-they even had a pancake breakfast for us during finals week," said Tara Spadoni. 
The Notre Dame foreign study business program consisted of six classes, ranging from Managerial Economics, taught by Notre Dame's own Professor Howard Lanser, to Australian History and Literature, taught by a local expert in the field, Professor George Russo. Much of the content of the classes stresses Australian culture. 
Although Fremantle itself is a city of only 200,000 inhabitants, Perth's metropolitan population is a healthy 1.2 million and is less than a 30 minute train ride to the central district. Both cities are abundant with ethnic restaurants, pubs, shopping centers, museums and parks. 
The native Australians were more than hospitable, according to junior Chris Barry. "The people were extremely friendly and helpful-we got a lot of sup­port from local parishes and Catholic schools," he said. 
With the help of Director of Student Activities, Mark Hales, and former NDA Vice Chancellor and current Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, David Link, the students last semester ·had managed to take a number of trips through Western Australia and even spent a week touring several cities on the east coast. 
They spent a day at a fair in honor of the Queen's birthday, took in an Aussie-rules football game and an international cricket competition, fed koalas and kangaroos at a wildlife refuge and visited the Margaret River wine producing region. 
Some other activities included visiting the Burswood Casino, SCUBA diving at the Great Barrier Reef. and experiencing the nightlife at the numerous local pubs and nightclubs. Junior Anne Pierson described her time there as "the best time under the sun." 
"The experiences were amazing-where else could you go SCUBA diving on the Great Barrier Reef, bungee jumping in a rain forest and whitewater rafting all in two days?" said Notre Dame junior Dave Sullivan. 
An information meeting is being held this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in room 122 of Hayes-Healey. Applications for the program are due by January 25. 

~ 

Jack Nicholson is the powerful Teamster boss Jimmy Hoffa, whose turbulent career is followed over the sweep of four decades in "Hoffa." 
gets a sense of the relationship between Hoffa and his family, nor is there any hint of what caused this man to mature into such an instrument of power. 
It is quite evident that everybody (with a few exceptions) loves Jimmy Hoffa, but DeVito never tells the audience why. 
"Hoffa" attempts to tell forty years worth of one individual's life, and instead reveals nothing of the true man. DeVito's direction, coupled with Mamet's screenplay, enable Nicholson to display all of his acting talents-an Oscar nomi­nation is inevitable. 
"Hoffa" is a moneymaker, not a telling biography. 
page 10 The Observer 
Bears expected to hire Wannstedt after meeting 
CIIICAGO (AP) -Dallas Cow­49ers 30-20 on Sunday and will and I'm not even sure if he is in a nice talk." boys assistant Dave Wannstedt play the Buffalo Bills in the Su­town," Harlan said. After firing Ditka, McCaskey is rumored to be all but hired per Bowl on Jan. 31. Broadcast reports said Mc­said that he would not make an as coach of the Chicago Bears, Caskey, who fired Mike Ditka on early decision because some of although a team spokesman Bears spokesman Bryan Har­Jan. 5, has had three meetings the people he wanted to inter­said he was unaware of sueh a lan said Monday night he was with Wannstedt, the first view were involved in the play­move. unaware of any decision by dub coming last week in Dallas. offs and that he would wait 
Wannstedt is the defensive president Michael McCaskey. until their teams were coordinator of the Cowboys, "It went well," Wannstedt said eliminated before discussing 
who defeated the San Frandsen ''I'm trying to reach Michael after the first meeting. "We had the situation. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cross Country ski equipment may be rented from RecSports at the Rock Thursday and Friday from 4:30-5:30 p.m., Saturday from 12-1 p.m. and Sunday from 4:30-5:30 p.m.. For more information. call RecSports at 631-6100. 
RecSports is offering courses and classes in scuba diving and water aerobics. The classes start January 20 so stop by the RecSports oflice in the JACC to sign up. 
Entries are being taken for campus racquetball doubles for men and women and co-ree volleyball, interhall team racquetball, and grad/faculty/statT volleybalL The entry deadline is January 20. Entries for campus indoor soccer for men and women, badminton doubles for men and women. and co-ree water volleyball and the interhall swim relays are due January 27. 
The Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting on January 20 at 7:30 p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. All new members are weleome. If you have any questions, call Megan at 634-2784. 
The Badin Aerobathon will be held January 23 at Stepan Center from 9 a.m.-5 p.m.. Classes will begin every hour on the hour alternating between high impact and a combination of high and low impact aerobics. The fee is $3 for unlimited classes and all proceeds go to the Women's Care Center in South Bend. 
The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will be having beginners praetices starting January 21 from 6:30-8:30 p.m. in 219 Rockne. No experience necessary. All are welcome. Advanced classes will begin January 15 at 6 p.m.. If you have questions, please call Laurie 634-4992. 
Registration for SMC intramurals will take place Tues. Jan 
19. Basketball and indoor soccer captains will meet at 5:30 pro. Tennis doubles and coed volleyball captains at 6 pm. Meetings will be held at Angela Athletic Facility. For info call 284-5549 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice will be held Mondays and Thursdays at 7:30 in the JACC above Gate 4. Questions call Matt Zinno 634-1777. 
Competitive volleyball is being played at the Rock on Mondays from 12-1:15 p.m.. If you have questions, please call Mike at 631-5689. 
The Ultimate season is finally getting started. Practices are going to be held from 10-11 p.m. in Loftus on Wednesdays starting this Wednesday. January 27 will ben oflicial tryout for the team. All are welcome. 
SportsTalk welcomes defensive back John Covington tonight at 8 p.m. on WVFI 640AM. Please call in with questions and comments at 631-6400. 
The Notre Dame Varsity Tennis team will be conducting a doubles clinic tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the Eck Pavilion. Come by yourself or bring a partner. Register in advance by calling RecSports at 631-6100. The clinic is free of charge. 
RecSports is offering a cross country ski clinic on January 20 at 4 p.m.. The clinic is for novice skiers. Meet at the Golf Shop in layered clothing. The cost of the clinic is $5 or $7 if equipment rental is needed. Register in advance at RecSports. 
RecSports is sponsoring a downhill ski trip to Swiss Valley in Jones, Michigan. The trip is January 22. The bus leaves at 5 
p.m. from the Library circle. $25 includes lift ticket, rental and transport. Transportation returns to campus at approximately 11 
p.m.. Registration is necessary in advance by January 20 at the RecSports office. Beginner lessons available free of charge. 
Late Night Olympics Dealine for team signups is 9 p.m. Monday, January 25. See your LNG Hall Rep for details. 
~----~--·-----­
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 
Broncos to meet with Shanahan 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP) ­Mike Shanahan, offensive co­ordinator for the San Francisco 49ers' top-ranked offense. is heading back to Denver for a job interview. 
Broncos owner Pat Bowlen received permission Monday from the 49ers to approach Shanahan. then called the former Denver assistant to ar­range an interview for the club's vacant coaching job. 
"I think it's something that an assistant coach is always excited about," Shanahan said. "Your goals and aspirations as an assistant coach are to bPcome a head coach. Hopefully if it's right for both of you, then it works. If it docsn 't, I've got a great job. I feel like my job right here is better than a number of head coaching jobs in the 
NFL" 
Shanahan would say only that he'd be interviewed later this week. 
Earlier Monday, San Fran­cisco coach George Seifert, who hired Shanahan a year ago to ovnrsee the 49ers ofl'ense, appeared resigned to having to lind a replacement. 
"I guess I already have some thoughts. But I don't say, 'Boom. I havn to do it tomor­row, the next day,' " Seif1~rt said. "I'll take my tinw and try to g1)t the best man." 

The Observer accepts class1f1eds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p~m. at 309 Haggar College Center~ Deadline for next-day classitieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge IS 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
Where is the chinless, WEIGHTLIFTERS-GO BACK TO SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-START PLEASE bubbleheaded boy? PLAYING VIDEO GAMES AND 
I NOTICES I TICKETS
NOW HELP QUIT TAKING UP SPACE SO THAT Top environmental/educational Adoption: Doctor and teacher will THE REGULARS CAN DO THEIR 
GOURMET BURGER DAY WANTED: 
company interviewing now for part­I NEED 3 make dreams for your baby come THING.
THURSDAY DINNER Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. 
time and full·time opportunities. Call DUKE TIX true. Full-time parenting. Best of the 
JANUARY 21, 1993 Please call284-3814 232·7785 for details. city: summers by the beach: your SUMMER JOB FAIR! 
4:45-6:45P.M. 

WILL PAY OR baby rocked to sleep by a cozy JACC MONOGRAM ROOM -WED..
NOH & SOH I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! TRADE KENT. TIX fireplace in winter, and by ocean JAN. 20 ~ 1-5 P.M MEET WITH 
GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 FOR RENT waves in summer. Art. music, the COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES TYPING 287·4082 CALL TIM X3893 best education, endless love. Call AND DISCUSS SUMMER 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! Franny or Stephen collect. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES. 
GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 NEED (212)369·2597. BRING COPIES OF YOUR Used Texts Cheap Pandora's FOR RENT: 4 bed/2bath house on 
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233· Corby St. (walking distance to NO) 2 DUKE TICKETS RESUME.
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! DARRIN #3107 SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! 
2342 ND Ave & Howard available as soon as June for 93/94 
GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469year. Call Kevin (3t7) 685-2926 
RAPID WORDPAOCESSING For Sale: One Way ticket to FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE NEED A SUMMER JOB? 

Call Lori at 271-0754 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! 
Reserve '93-94 yr. 1628 Tampa/St. Petersburg, FL. Good for GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, COMPANY REPRESENTATIVESGA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 Portage. 6 bedrm. Beach one year. Best offer. Call Chris @ LIMITED SPACE. WILL BE AT THE SUMMER JOB Dissertations, Theses, V·ball ct. 234-3831, 273­273-2958. SUN SPLASH TOURS FAIR TO DISCUSSTerm Papers NEED 2 tickets to Kentucky game­
0482 1·800-426-771 D. EMPLOYMESNTWord Works Typing Service call Aaron x 1764 OPPORTUNITIES. BRING277-7406 3 BEDROOM HOUSE '"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! COPIES OF RESUME. JACCWho's your basketball coach?! 

$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. 
PERSONAL 
BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MONOGRAM ROOM-WED., JAN.
Who's your basketball coach?! 
SECURITY SYSTEM MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH 20-1-5 P.M.

Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 232-3616 KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, 
ILOST & FOUND I 
basketball tix to the Kentucky DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $t49, SUMMER JOB FAIR !
WildCATastrophe due to take place call x 1739 and wish KYLE
FOUND: Watch in parking lot BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JACC MONOGRAM ROOM
in the month de amor. Be a pal, FLEMING a HAPPY 20th 
behind stad1um. Black band with 219-291·7153. 
JAMAICA $479! 1-800·678·6386. 1·5 P.M., WED., JAN. 20~samaritan, or whatever and sell him BIRTHDAY!
gold face~ Call x3447 FURNISHED ROOM. 
the tickets or one of his Italian Anyone interested in
relatives might pay you a visit. Then Joe and Rich'sFound: Lad1es watch in 127 $170/MO~ WALK TO CAMPUS. 
tutoring at the South Bend
the time for haggling will be over. Best Quote of Fall Semester
NSH on H 3-93. Call 233-4925 to 287-2159. 
Juvenile Detention Center Top 15 quotes from anyone tough
Call Skip at x2052 and leave a (Addressed from Rob
identify. 

Please attend an enough to make the Elon College
message if he ain't around. Johnigan to Michelle
2, 3, & 6 BEDROOM HOMES Willingham) 
informational meeting in the TripLOST: Silver Peugeot watch lost NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW Center for Social Concerns
Please Help!! "What is it you don't like about me? I
Thursday ol finals week in or around AND NEXT FALL. 272·6306 on Wed~, Jan. 20 at 7:30PM 15. Hey. how about some f-in
can change."
DeBartolo 101. If found please call heat back here? 

I need 1-4 Duke/NO Joe and Rich are not
Jesse at 43268. BEAUTIFUL FURNISHED, 2 BED Basketball tix for Feb.6!! responsible for the adverse 14. We're in the blue zone. 
HOUSE FOR RENT FOR $305/pm. 
HAPPY 13. Are we on a highway yet? 
affects which this ad mayLost: Gold Claddagh Ring Call8562 BIRTHDAY 12. I spend more time wiping myPlease call X2384 ASAP causeAbout size 4 112 or 5. Pinky Ring. 
MIKE butt than i do studying.
Thanks!!
Please Call Amy x4530 RAFFORD 11 . There are more kegs here than (cards never were my style) girls.

I desparately need 4 stu tix to Duke The Student Activities Office is
LOST: HANOWA watch at FOR SALE You are another year older and 10. That girl's from my hometown

ND game~ Sean x1067 hiring students for their building set
BRIDGET'S on Thursday of final's up crew~ If you are interested, pick wiser, and even more prepared to and she won't even cut us a break. 
week-black band, white face. small Need 4 Duke GA's up an application at 315 LaFortune. 
continue dealing with my crisis 9. I have a picture of yooouuuu.~~~ . 
seconds hand. IF FOUND, CALL KENWOOD CAR FM/CASS PULL­situations and Republican guilt (ha). B. You're from New Jersey? Holy
4 or2and2 For more information call 631·7308. 
TREY at X1453 OUT, DOLBY, ETC For this, I am eternally grateful. I will s-. I'm from New Jersey too. YouMatt#1190ORIG 800, 150 OBO, LINDA 234­talk to you AFTER 1-Day, so as not know him? Oh my G·d, so do 1.. 
7667 to hear your gloating. (I hope 7. The feast of Jesus...

KENTUCKY GAME WANTED Fleetwood Mac and co. choke on 6. I must save Mike Kryzschechki. 
NEED 4 TIX 'Notre Dame Council On $$$$$$$$$$$$ International Business Development their pride and Chelsea trips over 5. I haven't seen an Apple Jack like MARDI GRAS!! 
her hair on the walk down Penn. that since 191 D.
CALL MIKE@ 1719 OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT 
For sale: One·way plane ticket to Ave.) :>) mo 4. Keep an eye on the sacred 
DIVISION' I need DUKE & KENTUCKY tix!GA's will meetTONIGHT at 7:15p.m. in CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­New Orleans. leave chicken.
Earn $2000+/month + world travel South Bend on Friday, February 19. 
3. We got cauked. 

or Student! Call Chris x1235. the ISO Lounge, 2nd Floor, Desperately seeking GA's for 2. Leave Iitie spermies on the floor (Hawaii, Mextco. the Carribean, You name the price. 233-1958. 
LaFortune. If you were in the P.O., UKIND basketball game! If you can of Cameron Indoor Arena. 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career Need 1.2,3,or 4 GA or stud. Marketing, or Communications tickets for Duke game. Cali Nicole Division or are interested in working employment available. No help please call Missy at 284-5260 1. Come back to me when you'veexpenence necessary. For got a complete thought. 

at X1618. with the largest academic FOR ALL OF YOU NEW YEAR'S employment program call WANTED: organization at ND, Come and Find 
t ~206-634-0468 ext.C5584 

Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. 
RESOLUTIONERS WHO THINK hi Jeanne
NEED ONE TICKET TO THE out more about the NDCIBD!
Please call284-3814 THAT YOU ARE BASKETBALL

DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL PLAYERS ORNeed Kentucky b~ball tix$X4890 PAULA X2581 
......----~--­ 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 '~€) !Ft~ ~ ~ "-"' ~  AW  '••'Wltfi%¥  The Observer ..... ..... ..... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ....... . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . : : : :: :: : :: :: :: :: :..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . • ll .l ll ·.. l l ll ll ll ·.. l l..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . . . . ......  . ' 1\Mifl '  0  ~. ~  ,.,,'Iii'#ll  C» ~  page 11  
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division W L T Pts GF GA Home Pittsburgh 30 12 4 64 202 157 18-H Washington 24 18 ~ 52 iii4 i62 11-6-3 i\iewja;sey 23 18 3 49 154 146 13-9-1 NY Rangers 21 19 6 48 186 182 14-7-3 NY Islanders 20 22 4 44 184 172 10-10-0 Philadelphia 17 20 7 41 173 177 12-7-3 Adams Division Montreal 28 15 5 61 200 158 16-6-2 Quebec 25 15 6 56 194 167 12-9-1 Boston 25 18 2 52 180 163 16-6-2 BuHalo 21 18 6 48 197 162 16-4-2 Hartford 12 29 4 28 140 207 7-13-4 Ottawa 4 41 3 11104 227 4-19-3 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division W L T P1s GF GA Home Chicago 27 16 6 60 165 130 15-6-4 Detroit 26 19 3 55 202 167 15-11-1 Minnesota 22 17 6 50156 152 11-7-5 Toronto 20 19 7 47151 154 12-7-4 StLouis 19 21 6 44161 164 12-8-3 Tampa Bay 15 30 2 32151 183 8-12-0 Smythe Division Vancouver 28 12 5 61 208 133 19-2-2 Calgary 25 16 5 55178 150 14-7-1 Los Angeles 22 18 5 49183 185 13-7-2 Winnipeg 21 20 4 46160 164 13-6-2 Edmonton 16 25 7 39128 183 11-9-4 San Jose 6 39 2 14131 228 4-19-1 Sunday's Gamas Detroit 7, Philadelphia 4 Washington 5, Tampa Bay 3 Edmonton 3, BuHalo 2, OT New York Islanders 7, Ottawa 2 Chicago 5, Toronto 3 Monday's Gamas Late game not included Boston 4, San Jose 3 Hartford vs. Winnipeg, at Saskatoon, Sask., (n) Tuesday's Games Boston at New York Islanders, 7:40p.m. Quebec at Ottawa, 7:40 p.m. Minnesota at Tampa Bay, 7:40p.m. New York Rangers at Detroit, 7:40 p.m. Toronto at StLouis, 8:40p.m. Chicago at Winnipeg, 8:40p.m. Los Angeles at Edmonton, 9:40p.m. BuHalo at Calgary, 9:40p.m. Pittsburgh at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. Wednesday's Game New Jersey at Montreal, 7:40 p.m.  Away Div 12-9-1 13-4-1 13-12-1 9-10-1 1Q-9-2 9-11-1 7-12-3 9-11-1 10-12-4 9-1Q-O 5-13-4 7-10-2 12-9-3 12-6-0 13-6-5 11-5-2 9-12-0 11-7-0 5-14-4 12-5-3 5-16-0 7-14-2 0-22-0 1-17-1 Away Div 12-10-2 15-7-2 11-8-2 9­9-3 11-10-1 9­6-2 8-12-3 9­9-4 7-13-3 6-10-4 7-18-2 5-12-1 9-10-3 16-5-2 11-9-4 12 -5--2 9-11-3 8-10-2 8-14-2 1Q-8-2 5-16-3 7-14-1 2-20-1 4-15-1  EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division I ~ L rw. GB New York 22 14 .611 New Jersey 22 15 .595 1/2 Boston 20 19 .513 3112 Orlando 16 16 .500 4 Philadelphia 14 20 .412 7 Washington 11 24 .314 10112 Miami 1 0 24 .294 11 Central Division Chicago 26 11 .703 Cleveland 22 15 .595 4 Charlotte 17 16 .515 7 Detroit 17 18 .486 8 Indiana 17 19 .472 8112 Atlanta 16 18 .471 8112 Milwaukee 14 21 .400 11 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midwest Division W L Pa. GB Utah 24 10 .706 San Antonio 21 13 .618 3 Houston 19 16 .543 5112 Denver 1 0 24 .294 14 Minnesota 7 25 219 16 Dallas 2 30 .063 21 Pacific Division Phoenix 25 7 .781 Seattle 24 1 0 .706 2 Portland 23 11 .676 3 LA Lalkers 1 9 1 6 .543 7112 LA Clippers 19 18 .514 8112 Golden State 18 19 .486 9112 Sacramento 14 20 .412 12 Sunday's Game Portland 109, Seattle 97 Monday's Games Late Game Not lnduded New York 106, Phoenix 103 Philadelphia 124, Orlando 118, OT Chicago 103, Boston 93 Houston 110, LA Lalkers 90 Sacramento 111, Golden State 1 07 New Jersey 100, Indiana 97 LA Clippers 94, Minnesota 93 Utah at Seattle, (n) Tuesday's Games Adanta at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Washington at Indiana, 7:30p.m. Portland at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. Detroit at Dallas, 8:30p.m. Denver at San Antonio, 8:30p.m. HousiDn at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Wednesday's Games Atlanta at Boston, 7:30 p.m. Charlotte at New York, 7:30p.m. Philadelphia at Miami, 7:30 p.m. Phoenix at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Portland at Minnesota, 8 p.m. Seattle at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Utah at Golden State, 10:30 p.m.  TRANSACTIONS BASEBALL American l::!!:;;d BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms with Brady Anderson, outfielder, on a one­year contract. BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with Tony Fossas, pitcher, on a minor-league contract. TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Invited Travis Baptist, Tony Castillo, Danny Cox, Ken Dayley, Paul Spoljaric and Woody Williams, pitchers; Domingo Cedeno, Alex Gonzalez, Alfredo Griffin and Dick Schofield, shortstops; Shawn Green and Todd Stever­son, outfielders; and Angel Martinez, catcher, to spring training as non-roster players. National Laague MONTREAL EXPOS-Invited Tavo Al­varez, Mike Capel, Adam Peterson, David Rosario, JeH Shaw, B.J. Wallace, Bruce Wal­ton and Gabe White, pitchers; Joe Sidall, catchers; Derrick White, infielder; and CliH Lloyd and Rondell White, outfielders, to spring training as non-roster players. ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with Joe Magrane, pitcher, and Craig Wilson, third baseman, on one-year contracts. SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms with Jeff Reed, catcher, on a minor­league contract. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association INDIANA PACERS-Activated Greg Dreil­ing, center, from the injured list. Continental Basketball Association COLUMBUS HORIZON-Signed Keith Tower, center. FARGO-MOORHEAD FEVER-Signed Rory White, forward. OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Signed William Bedford, center. RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Signed Tom Garrick, guard. YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Signed Sean Tyson, forward. FOOTBALL National Football League NFL-Announced that Johnny Bailey, kick returner, and Robert Massey, cornerback, of the Phoenix Cardinals will play in the Pro Bowl. HOCKEY National Hockey League NEW YORK RANGERS-Named AI Hill assistant coach. Recalled Per Djoos, de­fenseman, from Binghamton of American Hockey League. Sent Mike Hurlbut, de­fensemen, to Binghamton for conditioning. TORONTO MAPLE LEAFS-Recalled Fe­lix Potvin, goaltender, from St. John's of the American Hockey League. Colonial Hockey League FLINT BULLDOGS-Activated Dan Woodley, center, from the injured list.  COLLEGE SOUTH CAROLINA-Announced the res­ignations of Steve Newton; men's ba.!l~.e~;:;:: coach, &r.d James Holland and Craig Morris, men's assistant basketball coaches. An­nounced Newton will become an assistant athletic director, effective May 31. INDIVIDUAL STATS NHL Scoring Leaders Player, Team GP G A PTS PIM Lemieux, Pgh 40 39 65 104 28 LaFontaine, Buf 45 30 54 84 45 Oates, Bos 44 26 47 73 20 Recchi, Pha 44 28 44 72 54 Turgeon, NYI 45 2g 41 70 18 Bure, Van 45 41 28 69 34 Gilmour, Tor 46 18 51 5g 44 Mogilny, But 3g 41 27 68 24 Selanne, Wpg 45 37 31 68 35 Yzerman, Det 48 34 34 68 21 Stevens, Pgh 37 34 32 66 86 Roenick, Chi 49 24 41 65 57 Roberts, Cal 46 27 34 61 138 Sundin, Que 43 25 36 61 32 Lebeau, Mtl 48 23 38 61 16 Muller,Mtl 47 20 41 61 57 Messier, NYR 46 19 42 61 42 Robitaille, LA 45 31 29 60 50 Salkic, Que 41 28 32 60 22 Damphousse, Mtl 48 25 35 60 48 Hull, Stl 46 29 30 59 31 Kurri, LA 44 17 42 59 16 Janney, Stl 46 1 0 49 59 8 Bradley, TB 47 32 26 58 66 Tocchet, Pgh 43 26 32 58 131 BUTLER 70, NOTRE DAME 56 NOTRE DAME (7-7) M. Williams 6-14 7-820, Russell2-5 0.0 4, Jon Ross 9-13 2-2 21, Hoover 1-4 o-o 2, Taylor 2-4 Q-0 4, Ryan 0-1 0-0 0, Boyer 0.0 0-0 0, J. Williams 2-5 o-o 5, Justice o-o 0.1 0, Cozen Q-4 o-o o, Joe Ross Q-1 o-o 0. Totals 22-51 9-11 56. BUTLER (6-7) Allen 1-6 2-2 5, Beauford 5-9 7-8 1g, Reliford 4-7 o-o 8, Bowen 3-9 3-4 11, Guice 5-10 3-317, Bowens 0.0 o-o 0, Taylor 1-2 6­6 8, McKenzie o-o o-o 0, Miskel1-1 o-o 2, Phillips o-o o-o o. Totals 20-44 21-23 70. Halftime-Butler 34, Notre Dame 27. 3­point goals--Notre Dame 3-14 (Williams 1 ­3, Jon Ross 1-2, Hoover Q-3, Taylor 0.1, J. Willaims 1-3, Cozen Q-2.), Butler 9-23 (Allen 1-6, Beauford 2-3, Bowen 2-5, Guice 4-9.). Fouled out-Joe Ross. Rebounds--Notre Dame 32 (M. Williams 8), Butler 20 (Beauford, Reliford, Guice, Taylor, 3). Assists--Notre Dame 10 (Jon Ross, Taylor, 3) Butler 11 (Allen, Taylor 3). Total fouls­Notre Dame 21, Butler 20. A--6, 112.  



Thursday, Jan. 21 at Rolfs Aquatic CenterTuesday, Jan. 19 at the JACC 
POOL PARTY 9pm-12am
Ice-Skate from 10:30pm·-12:00 am 
polo, volleyball, and swimmingmusic and snacks included Pizza, music 
FREE FREE w I WinterFest wristband 

Wednesday, Jan. 20 in the Ballroom Friday, Jan. 22 in LaFortune 8pm Hear the host of Comedy Central's 9 hole miniature golf, antique photos, Stand Up, Stand Up caricatures, food, and 3 campus bands 
8:00 p.m. •an night Steve Martin moviefest starting • • at 12 :15am
$ 3 GeneraI Adm1ss1on or 
1$ w/ WinterFest Wristband FREE w/ WinterFest wristband 
*1fJt/zt:er.g:;-<fba.JIY;r/_ha/lc/& a~.Jat!ab!& o/./-flt~i?lol~t~uzb 1/1. · · ScJ> 


·~~------·~---·-~·~·---------~----­
-~-----­
The Observer Tuesday, January 19, 1993 
Ross bright spot in Irish loss 
By SEAN SULLIVAN at eight. Even MacLeod admitted dis­Sports Writer Once in the bonus, Butler was appointment toward the early able to overcome the 11 to 3 fouls called against the Irish. 
Il'JD!,'\l'-!,1\.!'QL!S-For Notre lead Notre Dame had mounted "After that we didn't have the 
game to a same zip, but we have to play
Dame, the bright spot of last afu:l briilg !h~ tie 
from the foul lin through it. We can't put it in
night's loss to Butler was the performance of Jon Ross. He our head." scored a career-high 21 points The string of fouls was called 
and grabbed five rebounds. in such short order that it left In response to his spectacular 
After the game, Ross was much of the Irish squad frus­play against the Michigan humble about his play, giving trated by the quality of officiat­Wolverines, the Butler defense most of the credit to Monty ing. Russell called it the worst focussed on stopping Notre Williams. officiating he had ever seen, Dame freshman point guard 
"It was really nothing spe­and it definitely affected his Ryan Hoover. 
cial," the Wabash, Ind. native performance in the rest of the said. "It was a matter of game, as the sophomore ac­"We looked to take Hoover Monty's good play having me counted for five of his team's 19 out of the ball game," admitted 
open." turnovers Butler coach Barry Collier. Williams, however, gave Ross "The NCAA boards should Butler succeeded in doing just the credit he deserved. review something about that. that, as they limited Hoover to 
"Jon Ross had a great game," You know it's a shame when the only two points on the night, 21 the senior co-captain stated. referees decide the game," said less than last Saturday's per­"We isolated him a few times in Williams. formance in Ann Arbor. the box and this game was a credit to Jon Ross and how 
Thank you for not
hard he has worked." Irish head coach John MacLeod also reserved great 
smoking
praise for Ross. 

"We've been very pleased with Jon," MacLeod com­mented. "He's been stepping up in practice and tonight he was 
OBC JAPAN 
looking for his shot and was active on the boards. He played very aggressive." 
Despite Ross' superb perfor­
OBC English Conversation School is 
mance the Irish were dealt 
offering full time teaching positions
their second straight loss. A key factor in the game was the 
beginning in August 1993. Excellent 
officiating. 

working conditions and salary. Open
Notre Dame ·started the game strong behind the sleek moves 
to all majors. Japanese speaking
of Malik Russell, who scored 
ability not required.
four points and dished out two assists in the opening minutes. But three minutes later Russell 
Interviewing at Career & Placement Center 
had gathered three straight fouls, which put the Irish total 
Feb. 11th & 12th 

Procter&Gamble 
"Procter & Gamble and Wal-Mart: A Partnership For Growth" 
Presented by Mr. Tom Muccio, The Procter & Gamble Company Director of Wal-Mart Customer Business Development Wednesday, January 20, 1993 6:00p.m. Pizza Party following Presentation 
Center for Continuing Education 1st Floor Auditorium Casual Dress Please 
Also meet representatives from P&G disciplines 
--~---~~------·------~ ~ -~ --~~-~­
-·-· ~--~~-----------. 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Accounting Majors This sutntner, start building your career with Aetna. We are looking for outstanding junior accounting majors to participate in our Internal Audit Department's summer internship program. A summer internship with us is an excellent first step toward Aetna's impressive career opportunities, an exceptional professional development program, direct involvement with top management, special consulting, fraud investigation assignments and some travel. As a full time member o our staff after graduation, you can qualify for CPA licensing in Connecticut. Aetna was recently named by Fortune magazine and The Wall Street ournal as one of America's most admired con1panies. Our outstanding compensation, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. By joining our department you will become part of, a team. As a team we share ideas, thoughts, findings and friends. We do many activities outside the audit world. We meet together in the evenings and on weekends for play, charity events and sporting activities. Some of us even workout together in Aetna's private gym. We do it all! We are looking for individuals with proven analytical ability, effective communication skills, initiative, flexibility and creativity to join our large staff of audit professionals at our corporate headquarters in Hartford, Connecticut. We encourage you to stop by our information booth at the Summer Internship Fair on Wednesday. Check with you Career Office for further details.  

Aetna is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer. 
~-------.------------------------------------------~---------~------­
The Observer
page 14 
Fencing teams begin seasons 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 

Both Notre Dame ftHicing squads kicked offthe 1993: season very successfully at 
a two-day meet at Northwestern University this wetlkend, The men, fencing without senior leader James Taliaferro who took the weekt'lnd of(Jor academic rea$un$. went undefeated. beating UOSan Diego. Wayne State, Mi.(;hig;pl State, Tri State, CSU~Lon · Beach, and Mfl'. ...• ... · 
The women als() fenced well. beating UC·San Diego, Wayne State,. Michigan State~ TriState, and Mrt and losing only to 1992 NCAA champio~ Temple. 
"'It was a nice way to begin our s.ea..<>on" 8aid Irish men'$ coach Mlke DeCie¢p; "l ~a~ really pleased with Jeff Piper who led our team on and o the strip." .. . 
Piper went 14~Q ~n the weekend. Rlan .Gb:'M!:t!llsg fenced well. compiling i14~1 record for the MUsts. Girard had s'witched .tq e"p~e b1J~ returned to foU htst weliik tQ add depth. 
tn the absen¢~ 9fJames Taliaferro; it was Bern~rd Baez (15~2 on the.w~elp:l.~d) and Chris HaJnik t12Htfwh6 led the Irish sabremen. HaJnik f~nced s1,1rprlsin.gly }!~H considering that he·awitt~ed from the foil event to. the sabre event jqst tWo w~~~~ ago. 
For the epeel~t~,Jtwas.G~g Wozniak whO led th¢ way, compiling a 15~1. record on the weekend. Hls onlY~ost> was a. 5·4 defeat a¥t~e hMt4s of 1992 NCAA ~hampion Herald Bauder i.lf Wayne State. Per Jobn.$si):O~s 12~3 effort solidlfied th(\ epl!l~ist's undefeated weekend; > 
With their iiripres~ive performance this weekend~ tht!< young Irish iwoments squad proved that they will be a powerful force this season. Their biggest w~n came on Saturday. whnn the irish upset rival Wayne State 11~5. 
"Every one of the women contributed to the win agaill!'it Wayne;' outed wont¢p's c~ach Yves Auriol. "I was so pleased with Claudette de Bruin. Corinne Dougherty,.. and Mind~ Kalogera." · 
toading tho Irish women on 
the weekend were Kim Arndt 
who went 11-0, de Bruin tt :a~ 
3), and Dougherty(ll~3): But 
it was the solid t:tHltribution 
from all the women tlul.tled 
to their extremely suce¢~sful 
weekend. 

Next weekendthe 6~0 men 
travel to fence Ulin9ls, 
Chicago, and Lawt¢ne~ on 
Saturday. · 
; 
Featuring: 

Men's tennis expects successful season despite loss of Zurcher 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

There they go again. 
The sixth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team has contin­ued their winning ways this winter, destroying Ohio State 6­1 to open their dual meet sea­
son. 

After finishing second in last year's NCAA tournament and graduating only one senior. All­American David DiLucia, the Irish have been expected to continue their dominance of Midwest tennis and once again fend for the national title. 
Only this year, they will have to do it without one of their top singles and doubles perform­ers. senior Andy Zurcher. Last season Zurcher teamed with Will Forsyth to make up a pow­erful No. 2 doubles team, and was ranked in the top 50 sin­gles players in the country. 
With the absence of DiLucia this season, Zurcher has stepped up and become a team leader. But that all changed this Christmas break. While playing in a tournament in Phoenix, Zurcher suffered a severe tear in the tendons of his wrist. After four or five weeks in a full arm cast and some rehabilitation, he hopes to be back within eight weeks, possibly in time for the spring break trip to Tempe. 
"Some doctors say that not 
even this cast will heal it, some 
say it may take surgery," noted 
Zurcher. 

During his absence, the Irish 
have competed in the National 
Collegiate Tennis Classic in 
Palm Springs, an individual 
tournament between the top 
four players from the top eight­
ranked teams in the country, 
and Saturday's contest with the 
Buckeyes. 

In Palm Springs, current No. 
3 singles player Mark Schmidt 
reached the semifinals, Forsyth 
and Zurcher's replacement, 
HousEs 
FoR RENT 93-94 4 & 5-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems 
senior Ron Rosas. advanced to the second round, and Chuck Coleman lost in the first round. 
Last Saturday, Forsyth, Coleman, Schmidt, and Rosas all won straight-set matches at the first four singles spots, while the tandems of Forsyth and Coleman and Rosas and freshman Jason Pun triumphed in No. 1 and 3 doubles, respectively. 
"I think everybody has re­sponded well. they're certainly working extremely hard," said Zurcher, "We really haven't been tested yet, though Ohio State is a good team, this week­end's match will be a big indi­cator." 
At 1:30 this Saturday, the Irish play host to the eighth­ranked Tarheels of North Carolina at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, in a match that will go a long way in showing how the shuffling due to Zurcher's in­jury has affected the team. 
"I think in the doubles teams it has caused a big problem," said the Denver native, "It takes a long time to find the proper combinations in doubles and perfect the chemistry of the teams. But I can't be disappointed with the amount of ell'ort." 

PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ''""'$fQ9
5 and 7 NIGHTS 

DAYTONA BEACH """'$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

PANAMA CITY BEACH """'s Bf 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

STEAMBOAT """'$f29 
2, SAND 7 NIGHTS 

MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS ,,on,$fJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND "on'$f2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

FORT LAUDERDALE """'Sf46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 


TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 


Photo courtesy of Sports Info Despite the loss of senior Andy Zurcher to a wrist injury, the men's tennis squad is still ranked sixth and expects a successful season. 
N D/SMC SENiORS 
SENioR MoNT~ STARTS Now! GET INvolvEd! 
Pick up ApplicATioNs AT T~E INfoRMATioN DEsk iN LAFoRTUNE ANd AT T~E HAGGAR fRONT DEsk. DEAdliNE: WEdNESdAy AT 5:00 p.M. QuEsTioNs? CAll C~Ris ... 6 ~4 ... ~486 OR SEAN ... 6 ~4... 16 54 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and I or resume to Mike Scrudato by Friday, January 22. Contact Mike at 631-4543 for more information. 
CAMPUS Racquetball Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Volleyball 
IH Team Racquetball 
Grad/Fac/Staff Volleyball 


Today 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1811 South Bend five.
GREAT PERM 

at Campus Shoppe 
• Mon.-Fri.
Shopping Center 
Volume, Bounce, Curl, 9-9
(Just ~orth of Frank's Red Hots)
Energy and Motion.... only • Sat. 9-6 ­
• Sun. 10-5
271-7674
Sl995 
Includes Shampoo, Conditioner and FREE Haircut (58 Value) 2 oz. Aloe Gel Conditoner (s2 Value) 
Additional Charge for hair Expires I/3 1/93 

,__f.A_R_L'I_o_N_____JII J"UNWIZ Hlf'nf/ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD 
CAMPUS  
Tuesday 9 p.m. Film: "Sweet Smell of Success." Auditorium.  Annenberg  

ACROSS 30 Malay dagger 55 Displayed fierce anger
31 "Born in the

1 Poker call .. 
&o Place for a 6 Kind of enemy spelunker
34 Smear 10 Kind of lore &1 See 17 Across 
35 Morning hrs. 

14 Results of pats &4 Eternally
36 TV's "Green 

on babies' 
65 Summers in backs Savoie
38 Removes utterly 

15lstanbul district && Sheer cloth 
40 Title created by 

16 Hot spot 67 Spanish
James I 

11 With 61 Across, muralist 
42 Kind of closet 

Berra-type 68 A warship: 
43-adjudicata

observation Abbr.
r 
19 City on the 44 Apportion &9 Off-the-cuff Truckee 45 Soft drink witticism 20 Bone: Comb. 46 Bridal-party form aides 
DOWN 21 Corn unit 49 Scent 1 Stat for Cecil 
22 Brag 50 Aversion Fielder 23Strict 52 Shipment to 2 Hatchback disciplinarian Bethlehem 3 Certain savings 2&1n re 54 Pie --mode 
accts. 4 Roasting rod 5 Serf of yore 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Mil. mailing address


7 Adores 
25 Stingya Originate 26 Group of Alps in 9 Author of Uncle Graubunden

Remus tales 27 Palatable
10Compel 11 Vanquished 28 Inverted or pondered
12 Carson's successor 29 Hautboy 
13 "You'll Never 32 Take care of 
-,"1943 
33 Fall flower 
song 

37 Perry or lake in 18 Prowler in an Italy
alley 39 Burden 
Hemingway title 40 Lahr or Wheeler 
Start the tiEW YEAR 
v~'ith a 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
LECTURES Tuesday 12:30 p.m. Lecture: "The Kenyan Elections: A Report from the Field," Stephen Orvis, Hamilton College. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute.  
MENU  
Notre Dame Chicken Fajitas Beef Stew over Biscuits Mushroom Quiche  

41 Declare 43 Secondhand 
transactions 47 Said 48 Rock salt 51 Lifeless 52 Summer treats 53 Praise highly 56 Movie dog 
57 Moral righteousness 58 Opposite of 57 Down 59 Nabe store &2 Suffix with left or right &3Johnny-, 
C.S.A. soldier 


Sports 
page 16 
Tuesday, January 19, 1993 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 


Basketball season shows problem of polls in football 
College football fans finally digested tlwir feast on New Year's Day, and they are ready for the next eourse-basketball. 
College hoops is a full-course meal. ESPN serves up a quartet of games
• 
nightly. And the weekend brings featured, big-name teams battling away. But the most appealing aspect of basketball is that during the months prior to the NCAA tournament it is a sport being viewed because it is just that. a sport. 
The football season is cluttered by the influence of the polls. What games will be tldevised and what teams rmnain in the hunt for a national title are determined mainly by the rankings. In addition. the polls add to the already high tPnsion between teams, coaches, and fans. 
This is not tlw case in basketball. Basketball has no need for the rankings. Teams settle everything in March. Tlw last team standing takes tlw crown. While football coaches lobby during the year for their team to be ranked number one, basketball coaches speak of the insignificance of the polls. 
Bashtball's attitude towards the ranki ngs adds to the game's appeal with tlw public. Basketball is a game so lovml that ESPN is able to televise a ganw such as Long Beach State versus UC-Santa Barbara and turn a profit. ESPN's finandal gain from such games is a testament to the enduring nature of the game. Polls have little bearing on tlw vil•wer's choice. It is thn game not llw rankings which appeal to the viewers. 
ESI'N deserves a great deal of the crPdit for igniting the public's passion with all college basketball teams. Bdore the station began its college baskntball coverage, the games on TV wen! reserved for ranked teams and thosf~ from the big conferences. ESPN opened the floodgates, giving teams exposure which allowed them to make a mark on the national scene and earn further coverage and respect. 
Football will always be unable to shakn the rankings influence as long as it allows the polls to determine the shape of the game. Also, aspects of the ganw go overlooked. No situation exists for lesser-known football programs to be Sflen, such as ESPN created for bask•~tball. Great games are missed, and so arc opportunities for the sport to show the enjoyment which can come from watching a game not involving ranked teams. 
The start of basketball season brings the sports finest time, when it is viewed bm:ause of the nature of the game. But this time also reveals the sad state of football and how polls can take away the enjoyment of the game. 
-
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Fencers start season 

see page 14 
•NFL coaching rumors 

see page 10 
•Zurcher out for tennis season 
see page 14 
Women face 5th-ranked Penn State 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The streaking Notre Dame women's basketball team, coming off two commanding wins against Midwestern Collegiate Conference foes, travels to College Station, Pa. to face fifth-ranked 
Penn State. The Nittany Lions finished 24-7 a year ago. Coach Hene Portland lost all five starters from last year, but has done an incredible coaching job, preparing her young team for a return to the top ten. Penn State stood undefeated at 9-0 before dropping a game over the weekend to Indiana 71-65. They bounced back with a win over 12th­ranked Purdue 73-59 on Sunday, raising their record to 10-1. "They are in the Top 10, but I think we can beat them," said Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "We just have to believe 
The Observer/ John Rock Malik Russell, here against BC, and the men's basketball team lost to Butler last night, 70-56. 

Belles' basketball run winning streak to eight games 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
After dropping their first two games of the season, the Saint Mary's basketball team has built an eight game winning streak. The eighth win, a 71-66 decision, came over the Saint Francis Cougars. 
"We have a winning attitude. One of our goals is staying undefeated at home," said co-captain, Kristen Crowley. 
According to Crowley, there is a huge difference between last year's team and this year's. 
"Last year, we went to the same people to score. This year we're an unselfish team. We can pass to anyone," said Crowley. 
The Belles scored in every way possible against the Cougars. They were 16 for 21 from the foul line with junior Anne Mulcahy sinking all four free throws and Jennie Taubenheim draining her six. 
"Our bench isn't as deep this year but those who come off it do the job," said Crowley. 
The Belles' bench was more than "doing the job" by racking up 20 of their 36 points in the second half. According to Crowley, the Belles were sluggish during the first half despite entering halftime with a 41-24lead. In the second half, she said that they exploded. 
"It's our fast break. We're patient to push it upcourt, " said Crowley. ''I'm pleased. Good team efforts have been the key," said Coach Marv Wood. 
According to Wood, adjustments were made for when opponents shut off the inside game. More baskets off the break and outside shots were needed and the Belles came through. 
The Belles were perfect in five 
it." The idea of facing Penn State has become a little more bearable to McGraw after her team's pnrformance in the the last two games. A 25-point drubbing of Detroit Mercy last Thursday was followed by a 76-50 win Saturday against Loyola. "We've struggled scoring this season, so beating teams by these margins has to help our confidence," said the Irish coach. "We need that heading into the Penn State game." Aiding the confidence will be the play of guard Coquese Washington. The senior captain scored 20, including four three­pointers Saturday and seored in double figures against Detroit Mercy. Washington's outside shoot-ing has opened up the middle for forwards Kristen Knapp and Letitia Bowen, who have picked up their play during the last The Observer/ John Bingham 
two games. Kristin Knapp and the Irish will meet fifth­ranked Penn State on the road tonight. 
Butler dumps Irish despite Jon Ross' 21 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS-Jermaine Guice's three-pointer with 12:48 remaining in the game sparked a 13-2 Butler run and snapped a 43-43 tie an route to a 70-56 win over Notre Dame last night at Hinkle Fieldhouse. 
touchy officiating, as his third foul on the offensive end just 6:24 into tll,P

• Ross' humble reaction/p.12 
game sent him to the bnnch and 

"We kept Guice under control in the first half (no points)." said Irish coach John MacLeod of the Bulldogs' junior guard. "But he got 17 big ones in the second half that really hurt us." 
Of those 17 points, 12 were from three-point land. 
The scrappy, undersized Bulldogs used a quick, aggressive man-to-man defense that forced 19 Irish turnovers. Tim Bowen, Butler's feisty 5'8" point guard, held Notre Dame's second-leading scorer, freshman Ryan Hoover, to just one of four field goal shooting for two points. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame pounded thP ball inside to their big men, .Jon Ross and Monty Williams. who finished with 21 and 20 points respectively. Ross' output was a carPer best. 
"At times they were overpowering us inside, but we made them shoot over us and we limited their second 
.. 

shot opportunities," said Butler coach Barry Collier. 
"We had a lot of good shots, but we just couldn't score," explained MacLeod. 
attempts from three-point land. Crowley led the way making three, while teammates Liz Vernasco and Mulcahy each chipped in one apiece. 
Mulcahy has had a hot hand with treys. In last week's game against Concordia, she was a perfect five for five from behind the arc. 
On Tuesday, the Belles will face th(l University of Chicago. The Maroon already beat Saint Mary's once this season with a 7 4-73 buzzer-beater. 
"It will be an aggressive game and they will press us end-to-end," said Wood. 

The coach said that the Belles were sluggish and had :n turnovers in that game. Crowley agrees that the Belles have to cut down on their turnovers. 
"We handed that game to them. But this game, I know we can beat them," said Crowley. 
Besides Boss and Williams, the n~st of tht~ Irish combined for a miserable seven for 25 from tlw floor. induding three for 14 from behind the three point are. From that range, Butlt•r cashed in on nine buckets. 
Notre Damn jumpml out to an 11-3 lead to start the the ganw with aggressive play from Malik Husstdl. But the sophomore fell victim to 
Brian Beauford to the line for tlw bonus. 
"I thought it was the worst job of officiating I've evt!r seen," said a visibly flustered Hussell. 
The Irish missed his seoring punch and athleticism on defensP, as BHauford collected a team high 19 points, including seven of eight from the charity stripe. 
Butler poured in 21 of 23 foul shots to just 9 of 11 for Notre Dame. 
"We've made a concerted Pl'fort to try to make teams foul us because we're smaller but quicker and we can cn1ate things off the dribble." noted Collier, whose team now stands at 2-1 against the Irish and (,-7 on the year. 
"We're a really young team and our inexperience shows," admitted MacLeod, whose team evened its record at 7-7. 
"We didn't do the little things," said Williams who played 34 minutes despite being listed as questionable due to a twisted ankle he suffered against Michigan on Saturday. "As captain I've got to step up and show some leadership and I really didn't . " 











