The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 69 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
First U.S. soldier killed in Somalia 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­A U.S. Marine died Tuesday in a firelight with Somali gunmen, the first American soldier killed during the American-led effort to help feed the starving in war-torn Somalia. 
The country's warring fac­ticms remained deadlocked for a ninth straight day in negotia­tions in Ethiopia on a cease­fire. Negotiations were set to continue Wednesday. 
ln Washington, a Pentagon official said the soldier's death oerurred when a Marine unit was on patrol and "took some fire. They returned fire and pulled thf~ir people back." 
When the unit regrouped. one Marine was missing. The Marines returned to the scene of the clash and found the Ma­rine's body, said the official, spnaking on condition of anonymity. 
lie said the Marine's identity was not immediately available. 
The death was the first of a soldier since U.S. forces arrived in Somalia on Dec. 9. A civilian Army employee was killed Dee. 23 near the eity of Bardera when the vehicle he was riding in hit a land mine. 
Earlier. Marines concentrated on rounding up weapons in Mogadishu. 
see SOMALIA I page 4 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Be thankful for all that you have 
A homeless man walks on the streets of Atlanta. The photo was captured by an NO student participating in Urban Plunge, which is a two day program sponsored by the esc where students work and live with the poor in cities across the nation during their vacations. 

U.S. threatens strikes against Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration declared Iraq's fresh incursions into disputed territory "a matter of extreme concern" on Tuesday and said there would be no fur­ther warnings before possible military retaliation for threat­ening moves by Saddam Hus­sein. 
Presidential spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater denounced Bagh­dad's actions after Iraqi work crews -for the third time in as many days -entered contested territory along the Kuwaiti border to remove equipment from a naval base. 
In addition, U.S. officials said Iraq was shifting anti-aircraft missile batteries around in both its southern and northern "no­fly zones"-areas in which the United States and its allies have banned military flights -in an apparent effort to confuse and provoke the allied jets flying patrols there. 
In Little Rock, Ark, a spokesman for President-elect Clinton said Saddam could be setting up a quick test for Bush's successor. 
"It would be unwise of him to underestimate President-elect Clinton," said communications director George Stephanopou­los. 
In the waning days of the Bush administration, officials at the White House and Pentagon were showing little patience. 
"The warning that we gave still stands," said Pentagon spokesman Bob Hall. "We won't tolerate any interference with our ability to enforce the no-fly zone. And if we make a judgment that some Iraqi action interferes with that ability, we'll take the appropriate action." 
Hall called the missiles "a po­tential threat to our aircraft." 
Some military experts sug­gested Saddam had opened the door for Bush to strike one more blow at the Iraqi ruler. 
"I sense that he (Bush) is looking for some excuse to do something pretty dramatic to Saddam Hussein," said retired Vice Adm. Henry Mustin, former deputy chief of Naval Operations. 
"I can't imagine Saddam Hussein would be stupid enough to push him at this particular time." said Col. Harry Summers Jr., an analyst at the Army War College. "Bush has everything to gain and nothing to lose." 
At the White House, Fitzwater told reporters, "There is a clear pattern of violation, whether it's missiles or these raids into warehouses or other actions they've taken." 
"It remains to be seen exaetly what may come of that, but as we said, there will be no 
see IRAQ I page 4 

Clinton is ready to deal with Iraq, other international policy challen_ges 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­Iraq's renewed belligerence may be an early test of Presi­dent-elect Clinton's resolve, Clinton's chief spokesman sug­gested Tuesday. 
Communications director George Stephanopoulos said Clinton is ready to deal with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein as firmly as Bush has done. "It would be unwise of him to un­derestimate Clinton's resolve to stand with Bush," he said. 
The president-elect also was giving attention to the sit­uation in Haiti in the hope of arriving at a diplomatic solu­
• Bentsen hearings/page 5 
tion to avert a new exodus of Haitian refugees, the spokesman said. Clinton continued to prepare for assuming office, working on drafts of his Jan. 20 inaugural address. Stephanopoulos said Clinton was largely writing it himself. 
With the situation heating up in Iraq, Bosnia and Haiti at the same time, Clinton will have a full plate of interna­tional policy matters to deal with when he becomes presi­dent. 


Stephanopoulos said: "Well, clearly." 
Iraq has been moving anti­aircraft missile batteries around in both the southern and northern no-fly zones in what U.S. officials said was an apparent effort to confuse and provoke U.S. allies. For the third day in a row, Iraq has also sent work crews into dis­puted border territory to re­move equipment from a naval base. 
"We will not tolerate any vio­lations," of the U.N. cease-fire resolutions, Stephanopoulos 
N_D phone system replaced over break 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
All Notre Dame students, administrators. faculty and staff members received a new tele­phone number over Christmas break. 
The University's phone system was replaced over the break with a new system that allows students and administrators to use a five-digit system to talk to each other, according to Steven Ellis, manager of University Telecommunications. 
Prefixes for students' num­bers were changed from 283-to 634-, and prefixes for admin­istrators' numbers were changed from 239-to 631-, El­lis said. Most of the previous four-digit extensions remain the same, he said. 
Students and administrators must now dial 4 plus the ex­tension to call students, and 1 plus the extension to reach administrators, according to El­lis. 
In addition, Campus Security's new emergency number is 911, Ellis said. 
This new system was installed because the previous system was "not large enough for the call volume to be processing," Ellis said. The old system had been installed more than ten years ago and was "fairly old for a phone system," Ellis said. 
Other than the new prefixes, students' phones have no fea­ture changes, although Univer­sity Telecommunications plans to install new machines that will allow students to receive voice mail next summer, Ellis 
see PHONES I page 4 
said. 
"We've had close communi­cations" with the Bush White House on the deteriorating sit­uation in Iraq, Stephanopoulos said. "We expect that to con­tinue." 
Aides to Clinton were work­ing to avert an exodus from Haiti. "What we would like most of all is to come up with an acceptable policy that moves toward a diplomatic solution in Haiti and that makes Haiti a place where Haitians like to stay," Stephanopoulos said. 
Junior dies in automobile accident 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
John Charles Coryn, an off­campus junior in the Notre Dame College of Business Ad­ministration died in an auto­mobile accident on the morning of Jan. 2. 
Transferring to Notre Dame last semester from the Univer­sity of Illinois, Coryn loved Notre Dame, and dreamed of attending the University ever since he was a young boy, ac­cording to Carol Coryn, his mother. 
see CORYN I page 4 

page 2 The Observer Wednesday, January 13,1993 

INSIDE COLUMN 
With new year comes helpful changes 
On ringing telephones and other subjects: 
Like all changes, the new phone system will take some getting used to. While students may balk at the slight inconvenience, the system will make new 
options like call waiting and Monica Yant voice mail a welcome reality Editor-in-Chief in the coming years. And_-:-------1 the nifty ND-1 (631) and ND-4 (634) interchanges make remembering most numbers a snap. 
But while the new system promises to be a plus for a community long tired of getting busy si.gnals when trying to call out on Sunday mghts, the University might have done the students the courtesy of a little warning. (Because, of course. there is now no excuse not to call home each Sunday. Sorry.) 
It would seem only logical that an institution so fond of bulk mailing would send all the necessary information to students and their families over vacation. At the least. they could have left a note under dorm room doors before students came back to campus. 
Although the changes were few, and the average Neanderthal should be able to figure the system out, some students were caught o guard by the new system. 
But as with most bureaucracies, logic is never simple. Newspaper stories and ads didn't reach everyone. So now students are have to call everyone and her brother to inform them of the changes, or let loved ones get the nice recording telling them the same. Go figure. 
On a personal note, some offices, like The Observer, got more than a new exchange. Our office picked up a slew of new phone lines to better serve our readers. The main lines are 631-7471 and 631-5303. Some new numbers include: News/Photography: 631-5323; Sports: 631-4543; Advertising: 631-6900; Editor-in­Chief: 631-4542; Managing EditorNiewpoint: 631-4541; Accent/Saint Mary's desk: 631-4540. All Observer departments have voice mail, so reaching us will be a cinch. Don't hesitate to let us know about news items. questions or complaints. We're just a phone eall away. 
Finally, users of The Observer's classified advertising section should take note at an updated policy in today's paper. Increasing our record-keeping of the names and phone numbers of individuals placing classified advertising will help us to better serve the community. Anyone with questions about the policy or about dassified advertising in general ean contact Managing Editor John Rock. 
Notre Dame's self-coronation as an "in loeo parentis" institution has gotten way out of hand. Maybe it's just me, but I'm not so sure that the woman who left a message on my answering machine Monday telling me to move my car from behind my dorm was really from Notre Dame Security and not just my mom faking it. It seems even parking violations have taken a pe~sonal twist at NO. She had a good point, and I did need to move the car. But I didn't need her reminding me to do it. What will they think o next? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

News  Systems  
Dave Kinney  John Rock  
Sarah Doran  
Accent  
Production  Jeannie Blasi  
Peggy Crooks  
Bryan Nowicki  
Sports  
Jason Kelly  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 
Former p~sjcal plant director djes 
• NOTRE D ME-Edwin Lyon, former director of the physical plant at Notre Dame, died Jan. 2 in his home in Indianapolis after an illness. Lyon worked at Notre Dame for 20 years before moving to Indianapolis, where he became director of physical plant operations at Butler University. He retired from that position in 1988 A funeral Mass for Lyon was celebrated Jan. 5 at Saint Mon_ica's Catholic Church in Indianapolis, and he was buned in Calvary Cemetary there. Memorial contributions may be made to Saint Monica's Church 6131 North Michigan Road, Indianapolis, Ind., 46208, o; to the American Heart Association. 
NATION 
Letterman's fate to be decided Friday 
• NEW YORK -"Late Night" host David Letterman gets his chance to switch networks this week: NBC has until Friday to match or better CBS' multimillion-dollar offer, or the gap-toothed comic goes against the "Tonight" show on CBS. "The cards are in NBC's hands and NBC, as far as I know, has not made a decision " Howard Stringer, CBS Broadcast Group president said Tuesday. CBS's deal for a reported $14 million t~ $16 million salary may be an offer Letterman cannot refuse. "Late Night with David Letterman" has occupied NBC's 
12:30 a.m. slot for nearly 11 years. Letterman, who's paid $7 million a year and has relentlessly lampooned NBC's tight-fisted parent company, General Electric, is said to want an 11:30 show above all else. A Las Vegas oddsmaker called Letterman a 3-1 favorite to leave NBC for CBS, citing financial incentives and "emotional reasons" 
OF INTEREST 
• Auditions for "The Heidi Chronicles" will be held Jan. ~3 and 14 at 7 p.m. _in the laboratory theatre of W!lshmgton Hall. The play IS by Wendy Wassetstein and will be presented by ND Communication and Theatre. Sign up for an audition time at the department office 320 O'Shaugnessy Hall. ' 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 12 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 301,523,350 -0.46 to 236.74 S&P COMPOSITE -0.86 to 504.59 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +1.89 to 3264.64

UNCHANGED 596 

GOLD 
+ s1.00 to $328.80 
SILVER -$0.03 to $3.697 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cold with temperatures in the 30's today, but falling into the 20's Wedneday. Light snow is expected today. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  19  15  
Atlanta  50  43  
Bogota  66  51  
Cairo  61  45  
Chicago  35  25  
Cleveland  38  31  
Dallas  61  43  
Detroit  31  27  
Indianapolis  37  30  
Jerusalem  48  32  
London  45  39  
Los Angeles  53  45  
Madrid  50  34  
Minneapolis  28  20  
Moscow  34  33  
Nashville  57  45  
New York  37  33  
Paris  52  46  
Philadelphia  39  33  
Rome  55  43  
Seattle  41  33  
South Bend  34  25  
Tokyo  52  41  
Washington. D.C.  45  35  


Wednesday, January 13, 1993 The Observer 
The Observer/Julie Kozdras 

So what time can we meet for lunch? 
Farley Hall freshmen Barb Wilson, Rachal Robertson, and Megan Derbes discuss their schedules yesterday at the JACC. 

page 3 

Students help South Bend residents earn degrees~, 

the tutoring is remebering how fundamental the teaching must be, according to Sullivan. 
"It's harder than one can ever
You may not know our name, 
imagine to teach why three times three is nine. I think we,
but we've been a cornerstone of America 
as college students, take for granted how fortunate we are
for 125 years. 
to know basic elements such as our times tables, or how to 
We wouldn't be a bit surprised if you didn't recognize our company name-Cargill. 
read," he said. 
But we've been in business since 1865, helping America's farmers feed the wor1d. The service has been active for about 20 years, but has
We're a company built on talented people. Our particular skills include marketing; 
been strongest in the last cou­
handling and processing bulk commodities; risk management; strategic capital 
r------'::===::-----------------------------------...,
pending an investigation and 
investment; and taking an innovative approach to generating cost efficiencies. 
Court upholds CIA's firing 
We apply those skills to a broad range of businesses. Today, Cargill handles commodities as diverse as scrap metal and molasses, cocoa and fertilizer, cotton and ocean freight, and wheat and orange juice. Our operations vary 
of gay as a 'security threat' 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Members from the South Bend community who cannot read or who dropped out of high school have the chance to earn their GEDs with the help of a tutoring program set up by Notre Dame students, according to junior Jim Sullivan. 
"Our goal is simply to help those who need help, when they need help," said Sullivan. "There's no set schedule, no strignet time table. The partici­pants can take as long as they want before they feel confort­able enough to take the tests." 
Sullivan said the best aspect of the program is the one on one tutoring. 
"There's no classrooms, no groups, just student-to-student teaching. It's personal, and the best way to get anything done," said Sullivan. 
One of the hardest aspects of 
from flour mills to futures trading, from meat-packing plants to mining salt, 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The
and from steel mills to selling seed. Cargill, its subsidiaries and affiliates, 
CIA's firing of a gay spy on
employ more than 6,3,000 people worldwide. 
grounds that he posed a threat 
to national security was upheld
If you have a good academic background, above-average communication skills and 
Tuesday by a federal appellate court. 
a desire for advancement, we'd like to talk to you. Career opportunities exist for 
talented, ambitious people from diverse educational backgrounds. 
A three-judge panel of the 
Recruitment dates are as follows: 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia said the Central Intelligence Agency had
February 2, 1993 -Commodity Merchandising 
a legitimate concern about the
February 3, 1993-Commodity Merchandising Intern 
spy's "trustworthiness in light 
-Accounting Intern 
of the fact that he hid in­formation about his involve­ment in homosexual activity despite suspecting or knowing that the agency considered such involvement to be a mat­ter of security significance." 
The appeals court overturned a federal judge's ruling that the 
Welcome Back! 
r-------, r-------, 
I Breads ticks I I 1-14" Large I 
I I I I
$1OO +Tax 1 1 1 Topping Pizza1
I I 
+Tax

Good 1/13,1/17 I I $6°0 I 
I I IGood 1/13..1/17 I I ~,1 1Additiona1Toppings.95oeach ~-~ 
INotValiJWithAnyOrherCoupnn -··
L -------.J ..... _______.... 
~-;r-;y-~t0~~ 
1 1-14" Large 1 11 ToppingPizza 1 I $495 I
+Tax 
IGood 1/13..1/17 I IAdditional Toppings .95< each ~.~
._ _______....
INot Valid With Any OtherCoupon -·I 
" 

ple of years, according to Sulli­van. There is never a lack of tutorers or students. 
The students who receive aid tend to stay dedicated through­out the teachings. 
"Participants attend the lessons faithfully. Most show up for help about three or four times a week. They really work hard," Sullivan said. 
Notre Dame students alter­nate days in such a way that five to ten tutors are always available Monday through Thursday from 9:30 a.m. to 
11:30 am. The lessons are conducted at a convent in the southwest area of South Bend. Transportation is available for students if needed. 
"We really need all the help we can get," said Sullivan. "But we need very dedicated people. There definitely needs to be consistency, people we can trust. But it is only two hours a week, how hard can that be?" 
Sullivan said that the experi­ence, like most service oppor­tunities, is rewarding. He ex­plained that unlike the other tutoring programs, this one is fairly unstructured in the man­ners in which the students must teach. 
"We have no rules or limits. Whatever way we can get through to the person is the best way," said Sullivan. "In turn, everyone has more fun while getting their goals ac­complished." 
spy, identified in court papers only by the fictitious name John Doe, was denied due process when then CIA Director William Casey fired him 1982. 
Doe had joined the CIA in 1973 as a clerk-typist and had worked his way up to a covert job as an electronics technician, in which he was rated as an ex­cellent agent. 
Fearing that he might be fired, he told a CIA security of­ficial in January 1982 that he was gay, that his family, neigh­bors and friends knew he was homosexual, but that he had never revealed any classified information to an unauthorized person. 
He was placed on paid leave 
was told in May he was being fired "in the interests ·of the United States." After the CIA rejected his appeal, Doe sued the agency in federal court. 
FREE 

TANNING 



HOURS 

M,Th ,11:00 a.m. ,1:00 a.m. Fri,Sat -11:00 a.m. , 3:00 a.m. Sun,Noon, 1:00 a.m. 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, January 13, 1993 
Miami braces for Haitian immigrants 
MIAMI (AP) -The U.S. mili­tary is prepared to disperse up to 100,000 Haitian refugees across the United States to ease the burden on Florida if there's a massive exodus from Haiti, Gov. Lawton Chiles said Tues­day. 
But a Haitian community leader here said that if U.S. of­ficials were to succeed in re­turning ousted Haitian Presi­dent .lean-Bertrand Aristide to office, "the problem won't be there." 
President-elect Clinton's campaign criticism of President Bush's policy of forcibly return­ing Haitian refugees without asylum hearings has raised hopes in Haiti of more lenient treatment under Clinton. Hun­dreds of wooden boats are be-
Somalia 
continued from page 1 
In the last two days, the Marines reported carrying away 16 truckloads of weapons and ammunition from gun markets and caches, inducting 265 rifles and assault guns and 55 machine guns. 
A spokesman for Marine commander Maj. Gen. Charles Wilhnlm quotPd the general as saying he hoped he would have a safer Mogadishu by Feb. 1, with more arms off the streets so that relief workers could move around without armed guards. 
"But it was not a hard fast 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
warnings," he said, speaking of any potential U.S. military retaliation. 
The U.N. Security Council on Monday night condemned the border raids. 
In an interview with "Fox Morning News," Fitzwater said the U.N. action "really put the world community on record in saying this is not acceptable. We are now in a position of watching to see how he may proceed from here. But it is a 
Phones 
continued from page 1 
said. 
People with modems will have to reprogram them for the new numbers, but students' answering machines should not be affected, he said. 
Ellis said that the University went through "an exceptionally 
ing built along Haiti's coast, prompting officials here to fear an influx of boat people after Inauguration Day. 
The governor met on Monday in Washington with Assistant Defense Secretary David Berteau and other Pentagon officials to discuss U.S. plans to handle any immigration emer­gency affecting Florida. 
"They did not talk specific details, but they did tell us they had worked on their plan, they felt they could handle an emer­gency," Chiles said in an in­terview Tuesday. 
Chiles said Pentagon officials indicated they could handle up to l 00.000 refugees. 
"And we were talking about people being processed outside of Florida. in other states, at 
rule that we were going to have a secure Mogadishu, in other words that there would be no arms here," said the spokesman, Lt. Col. Hon Stokes. Stokes made the statement to clarify earlier remarks attributed to Wilhelm by a United Nations spokesman, suggesting there would be no weapons in the streets. 
After dictator Mohammed Siad Barre was overthrown two years ago, governmental au­thority and public services van­ished across Somalia. Clans, bandit gangs and regional war lords fought with tanks and heavy guns. About 350,000 people died from famine, dis­ease and violence the past year. 
matter of extreme concern." 
At the State Department, spokesman Joseph Snyder said the U.N. resolution "lays the foundation for action by the council or member states" in response to Iraqi violations of the cease-fire resolutions, which were put in place after the end of the Gulf War. 
"The possible use of force is not excluded," he added, saying this was how the United States interpreted the resolution. "We got a statement last night that we're very happy with." 
smooth transition." Although a few people had reported not receiving a dial tone, "the vol­ume of repairs have been re­markably low," he said. 
Ellis' office has increased his staff to handle any problems that develop promptly. Anyone who has problems with or questions about the new phone system can contact University Telecommunications at 631­9000. 
federal facilities," he said, without elaborating. 
U.S. Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fla., said he doubted the military could control the situation. 
"Not even the U.S. Navy can stop all these boats, and it's ab­solute foolishness to think these Haitians are going to patiently wait on the beach for a military bus to come pick them up so they can be shipped to an Army base somewhere," he said. 
South Florida is still recover­ing from the $20 billion of de­struction wrought by Hurricane Andrew, so federal help would be essential. 
Florida, financially drained by the 1980 arrival of 125,000 Cubans during the Marie! boatlift, has since established its own plan to deal with 
Attention Tuesday was also focused on the diplomatic front in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Negotiators from 14 factions have been unable to agree on the number of representatives from each side and the agenda for a broader conference on reuniting the country. 
At Tuesday's session, Ethiopian President Meles Zenawi called the groups to his palace but was unsuccessful in his mediation bid. 
The conference, scheduled for March 15 in Addis Ababa, hinges on whether the warring sides can sign the draft cease­fire and disarmament agree­ment now before them. The proposal calls for the factions to 
-NATO's top m-Ilitary com­mander, U.S. Gen. John Sha­likashvili. said the Iraqi missiles in the northern no-fly zone "were brought up to an operational status in the last few days." 
In an interview with defense writers, Shalikashvili said that last April the Iraqis were told to halt the practice of electroni­cally locking onto U.S. planes. The action is interpreted as a hostile action. since it is a preparation for firing the mis­sile. 
The Observer Phone Lines: 
Office Manager 
News/Photo Sports 
AccenVSaint Mary's Advertising Office 
Editor-in-chief Viewpoint and Managing Editor "T 
Production/OTS Day Editor ''"'' Business Office 

1993-1994 ASSISTANT RECTOR APPLICATIONS Are Now Available OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 
315 Hain Building 
Coapleted Applications Due FEBRUARY 12, 1993 
631·7471 631-5323 631-4543 631-4540 631-6900 631-8840 631-4542 
631-4541 631·8839 631-5303 631-5313 refugees, including processing and detention sites. 
"It's a plan we hope we'll never have to activate," said Joe Pena, director of the gov­ernor's South Florida office. "This plan will kick in if we get the indication that the Immi­gration and Naturalization Service is just completely over­whelmed." 
Clinton has said he opposes mass migration and has been searching for ways to avoid that possibility without violating his campaign pledge not to sum­marily return all Haitians. His aides have said his foreign pol­icy team is working with the Bush administration and with Aristide on a policy statement that they expect to release late this week. 
turn in their weapons by March 1. 
There is skepticism that such an agreement could be en­forced. Asked about this, the 
U.N. spokesman in Mogadishu, Farouk Mawlawi, said he had faith in the provisions of the text, which call for establishing a U.N.-sponsored task force to supervise the cease-fire. 
American troops would be part of the U.N. force, operating in supply and support roles. Such a commitment could leave some American troops in So­malia for an extended time. 
Lt. Gen. Robert Johnston has said some American troops could begin going home by the end of this month. 

NASA crew rescues Cuban men 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -The crew of a NASA booster-recovery ship awaiting the launch of space shuttle Endeavour rescued three Cuban refugees from inner tubes in the Atlantic Ocean on Tuesday, the Coast Guard said. 
The Cuban men were found about 37 miles off­shore, NASA spokeswoman Lisa Malone said. They w~re floating on two large inner tubes held together with rope and boards. 
Coryn 
continued from page 1 
Coryn's life centered around Notre Dame and he enjoyed his work in pursuing a major in fi­nance. An excellent and indus­trious student, Coryn made the Dean's List for the 1992 Fall Semester, Mrs. Coryn added. 
llis dream to attend Notre Dame stemmed from his fam­ily's own Notre Dame traditions and ties to the University. His grandfather graduated from Notre Dame, and his father also received both his undergraduate and law degree from Notre Dame. 
Funeral services for Coryn took place Jan. 5 at Sacred Heart Church in Moline, Illi­nois. 

Good Luck in 1993 
TWICE TlilE FUN!! HALF THE: PRICE!! 
Save $$ at hundreds of restaurants mouies, special events & travel! 
ONLY$30 
Available at the LaFortune Information Desk. For more information ca/1631-8128. 


Wednesday, January 13, 1993 
Bentsen says tax hikes, spending cuts necessary 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, President-elect Clinton's choice for Treasury secretary, said Tuesday that tax increases and reductions in popular benefit programs must be considered as part of a "tough package" to cut the federal deficit. 
He underscored many of the same somber points that budget director-designate Leon Panetta had made in his confirmation hearing a day earlier, trying to lower any expectations that the new administration could bring the deficit under control quickly and painlessly. 
Bentsen pointedly refused to rule out such politically explo­sive measures as increasing the Social Security retirement age, reducing Medicare and Social Security benefits for the upper­income elderly and raising taxes. 
"There's no question but that the president-elect has a commitment to cut that deficit and do it in a major way," said Bentsen. D-Texas. "Time is running out. We don't have a lot 
Happy 21st Birthday Chuck! 
From The Home Team 
L----------------------------' aide to lie to the media about r-----------------------------------------.
lr---------------------------------------.1 
111 A L UM N I S E N I 0 R 
1..-------------------------------------....ll 
WE'RE OPEN TONIGHT! 
Seniors 
Come Start The Last Semester Off Right At YOUR Club 
Open 9, 2 must be 21 
of wiggle room left before these things have to be faced up to." "You're going to see a tough package," he predicted. 
Twenty minutes into the two­hour hearing of the Senate Fi­nance Committee, which the 71-year-old Bentsen has headed for six years, the panel took the unusual step of voting unanimously to recommend his confirmation by the full Senate. That was before Bentsen had been asked a single question and more than a week before Clinton will have the authority to nominate him. 
Like Panetta a day earlier, Bentsen said the deficit has clouded chances for a middle­class tax cut and he appeared to be trying to dampen public anticipation of an economic stimulus package. 
He said Clinton has not de­cided whether to offer a stimu­lus plan at all and predicted that if one is proposed it would be around $20 billion, toward the lower end of what has been discussed. 
The Observer 


The Observer/Julie Kozdras 

The environmentally concerned consumer 
Walsh freshman Lisa Dunn takes advantage of the new recycling center at LaFortune where students an now dispose of plastic, glass, aluminum and many other types of materials. 
Grand jury won't indict Robb 
NORFOLK, Va. (AP) -A fed-era! grand jury Tuesday refused to indict Sen. Charles Robbin a political eavesdropping scheme targeted at Democratic rival Gov. Douglas Wilder. 
But a Robb acquaintance, Bruce Thompson, was indicted on three counts related to the case, and that indictment a!­leged Robb's staff kept Robb informed about efforts to dis­credit people considered un­friendly to him. 
Thompson's indictment also alleged that Robb ordered an how his office obtained the Wilder tape. 

The outcome of the panel's 18-month investigation was announced by the Justice De­partment in Washington. 
Robb had denied any wrong­doing connected to the illegal taping of a car-phone conver­sation between Wilder and a political supporter. 
In a news conference in Washington, Robb thanked the grand jurors. 
"Ultimately, the system worked and the grand jury fulfilled its historical role to serve not only as a sword, but also as a shield, to protect citi­
zens from unjust prosecution," he said. "It never entered my mind that this matter could get this far or that the system could be so abused." 
Thompson, a Virginia beach businessman, has been identi­fied in news reports as the man who gave Robb aides the tape of an illegally recorded tele­phone conversation of Wilder. 
Thompson was accused in the indictment of violating federal 
communications law and trying
to get the man who recorded Wilder's call to lie about his knowledge of the matter. 
During the 1988 conversation, Wilder -then the state's lieutenant governor -said published reports that Robb had attended cocaine parties while he was governor from 1982 to 1986 had ruined Robb's political career. 
Cara, Susie, 
I Miss You Already! The "Butt" of your jokes-Katie 

page 5 

Report: No evidence of 'Oct. surprise' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A $1.3 million congressional investigation has found no credible evidence that Republicans conspired with Iran in 1980 to delay the release of American hostages until after the U.S. election, according to a summary of the report obtained Tuesday. 
The full document, to be re­leased by the bipartisan con­gressional task force on Wednesday, seeks to lay to rest allegations that have haunted the Reagan and Bush adminis­trations for years. 
"There is wholly insufficient credible evidence of any com­munications by, or on behalf of, the 1980 Reagan presidential campaign with any persons representing or connected with the Iranian government, or with those holding Americans as hostages during the 1979­1981 period," said the sum­mary. 
"There is no credible evi­dence supporting any attempt or proposal to attempt, by the Reagan presidential campaign ... to delay the release of the American hostages in Iran," the task force concluded after an 11-month investigation. 
The report itself, which runs several hundred pages, con­tains detailed information re­butting allegations that senior Reagan aides -among them the late William Casey who served as his campaign man­ager and then headed the CIA -took part in meetings in Eu­rope with Iranian representa­tives. 
The report also discusses in detail attempts by the Carter administration to achieve free­dom for the 52 Americans. The Reagan campaign feared those efforts would bear fruit at the 11th hour -in what they termed an October Surprise ­and result in victory for the Democratic incumbent. 
The hostages were in fact freed hours after Reagan's Jan. 20, 1981, inauguration. Subse­quently, allegations appeared that Reagan's campaign cut a deal with Iran to delay the re­lease in return for U.S. weapons. This purported deal also eventually came to be called an October Surprise. 
But the task force reported that, in fact, the Reagan administration in its first term "upheld the arms embargo with Iran and encouraged its allies to do the same." In its second term, the Reagan ad­ministration did sell Iran 

page 6 

Palatine pair mourned in memorial 
CIIICAGO (AP) -Thny were 

partners at work and at home, 
husband and wife devoting 14­
hour days to their new business 
venture. It seemed to be a 
promising beginning. Instead. it 
led to a tragie end. 
Hkhard and Lynn Ehlenfeldt, 

married for more than 25 
years, bought a fast-food 
restaurant last summer, eager 
to learn a new trade, willing to 
work a grueling schedule and 
determinnd. as always, to suc­
cend. 
Their dream ended in horror. 

Last weekend. the Ehhmfeldts, 
along with five employees, 
were murdered. their bodies 
found in two walk-in coolers in 
their Brown's Chicken & Pasta 
restaurant in suburban 
Palatine. No arrests have been 
madn. 
As friends and family mourned them Tuesday at a mmnorial serviee, the Ehlen­feldts were remembered as a couple committed to each other and their three grown daugh­ters -but also to community and causes. 
"There's a cliche about people giving you the shirt off their back. They would give you a shirt, a meal, a place to sleep -and love and compassion," said Douglas La Follette, a family friend and Wisconsin's secretary of state. 
"lie was the fairest person I have ever known," said Gordon Werner, a friend who asked Ehlenfeldt to be best man at his wedding. "Both he and Lynn were very gentle ... very much family people." 
They were activists, too, in­volvnd in everything from local homeowners groups and the PTA to the high-stakes, fast­paced world of national politics. In the 1960s and 1970s, Ehlenfeldt worked for former Sen. George McGovern and other Democrats. He also served in Wisconsin state gov­ernment. 
Friends say that no matter what they did, the Ehienfeldts were generous and diligent. At Brown's, they often gave em­ployees rides home, donated unsold food to a convalescent home and were the first to en­ter and last to leave their restaurant. 
One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The Observer Wednesday, January 13, 1993 
Oil tanker iin pieces as winds h1it 100 mph 

SUMBURGH, Shetland Islands (AP) -The fury of wind and waves that shattered the tanker Braer now is the best hope for cleaning up one of the world's largest oil spills, con­servationists and pollution ex­perts said Tuesday. 
In darkness, the 790-foot vessel broke into at least three pieces after being grounded against the rugged edge of the Bay of Quendale for a week. Waves have risen to 30 feet and winds have hit 100 mph. 
The tanker was carrying 24.6 million gallons of Norwegian light crude to Canada when it went aground in a hurricane­force storm Jan. 5. The cargo was more than twice the amount spilled by the Exxon Valdez in Alaska in 1989. 
"It is obvious most of the oil has now gone. There is a pos­sibility there will be some still The Observer/Julie Kozdras on board but we are no longer Back to work talking about thousands of tons -just hundreds," Geert Kof­
Pangborn Hall freshman Lisa Yerian looks over her work schedule at 
feman of the Duteh salvage
the Huddle for the spring semester. 
Balloon crashes, stalling attempt to circle the world 
HENO, Nev. (AP)-A troubled effort to launch the first nonstop around-the-world bal­loon flight lumbered off the ground Tuesday, but the craft brushed a mountain and crashed in a remote valley moments later. The three crew members weren't injured. 
"They couldn't lose enough ballast and clipped the ridge. The balloon landed safely," said Neil Cohen, vice president of public relations for Hilton Ho­tels Corp. 
Earthwinds Hilton, a unique hourglass-shaped craft, rose slowly into leaden skies above the Reno Stead Airport at mid­morning and drifted northwest toward the California-Nevada border. 
It went down 30 minutes later and a dozen miles away just inside California in a snow­clogged valley between two mountain ranges off U.S. 395, Cohen said. 
Pilot Larry Newman was taken back to the launch site by helicopter. Crew members Don Moses and Vladimir Dzhanibekov were to be re­turned to Reno after securing 

beachfront. For reservations call: 
P'arty Headquarters

the double-balloon craft and its 
football-shaped compartment. 
Newly renovated, located on 10 acres of
All three were uninjured. 

The balloon came down in rugged terrain, accessible only 1·800·292·7704 by helicopter or snow cat be­
1·210-761·6511 

cause of heavy snow over the 
past several weeks, authorities (ii. Radisson Resort South Padre Island 
said. 

It was the latest setback in the star-crossed bid for the record 
books, which has been delayed for nearly a year by weather and other problems. 
Problems inflating the craft's two balloons delayed the planned pre-dawn launch for several hours on Tuesday. Or­ganizers and a crowd of about · 500 turned out in subzero tem­peratures. 
--~ 

ttC·R~
fUOO&SPIIUTS :!f"..~~~~ONTHCBAY
,,,p'~@-'.Y~J?,--­
is ,, 

South Padre Island 
Padre 
Rentals 
& 

Real Estate 
Fiesta Plaza at the foot of the bridge 
P.O. Box 3470 410 Padre Blvd. South Padre Island, TX 78597 
1·800·292·7518 
R.R. $32.50/D/PERSON/4 MIN 
1·800·292·7502 

BEST FOR LESS 
HOT!! NEW!! CLUB!!! 
* 
CONTESTS­CASH & PRIZES 

* 
FREE TRANSPORTATION 


~ 

* HIGH ENERGY MUSICNIGHT CLUB * LIVE BANOS 
* DRINK SPECIALS 
BEST-RATES -FOR CENTRAL LOCATIONS! 
TR~CAL 
Condominium Services, Inc. 
1·800-221·5218 
South Padre Island, TX 78597 
firm Smit Tak told reporters. 
This was the world's 12th 
largest oil tanker spill, accord­
ing to Golob's Oil Pollution Bul­
letin of Cambridge, Mass. The 
worst was 79 million gallons 
lost by the Castillo de Bellver 
ofT South Afriea in 1983. 
Asked to assess the impaet of the Shetland spill, David Bed­borough, of the government's marine pollution control unit, said: "On crude tonnage terms, quite high. In terms of imme­diate, gross, fouling dirty ef­fects, very low. In terms of more subtle effects, unknown." 
Local council member Magnus 
Flaws said the spill was 
"nowhere near as bad as when 
I saw the vessel hitting the 
rocks." 
"I thought the end of the world was nigh," Flaws said. "But when I look at it today I still feel bad about it, and sad about it, but not half as sad as I thought I was going to be." 
It was a disaster in slow mo­
tion. 
Radisson Resort Spring Break 
I 
Suntide Ill 
12 Story Luxury Condominiums 2 & 3 BR Units On The Beach 
fjJtdlt~ 
TX: (BOO) 531-453B, US: (BOO) B47-572B 
MIRAMAR RESORT 
SPRING BREAK 1993 
500' GULF OF MEXICO BEACH for Volley Ball, swimming & other Beach Sports...2 fresh water pools...ON SITE SECURITY...Travel agency in lobbyfor Mexico and other destinations. Prices begin at $1 00 per night for four persons. 
SECURITY DEPOSIT L
REQUIRED 
1-800-683-1100 ...... ·. 1-210-761-1100 
P.O. Box 2100 South Padre Island, TX 78597 

~·,
ll. ·~~
\\ot&J~ ~VU'\: 
BEACH RESORT HOTEL 
I 00 Padre Boulevard South Padre Island 
CALL NOW FOR SPE~CIAL PACKAGES! * 
800·531·7405 US 800·29:2-7506 TX 210·761·5401 
"LIMITED SPACE AVAILABLE 
The anawer to the teat queatlon. RENTING BEACH HOUSES AND CONDOS 
@ Sheraton South Padre Island Beach Resort 
ON SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
Wednesday, January 13, 1993 The Observer 
Brothers: Russians and Serbs 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Television images of former Soviet Army generals and fur­hatted Cossacks celebrating Serb victories in Bosnia are sending a message to Serbs that they are not alone in the world. 
One report says 900 Russians may be fighting with the Serbs in the bloody Bosnian war, either for money or out of brotherly sentiment for fellow Orthodox Slavs. 
Heporters have seen some of the Russians in person. But they mostly appear in the me­dia as part of Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic's propa­ganda machine. 
Their appearance, aimed at boosting the morale of Serbs, also shows the face of a reborn Hussian nationalism that would radically raise the stakes of the Balkan crisis if it ever came to power in Moscow. 
Hussia has hesitantly stood with the West in imposing eco­nomic sanctions to stop the Serb military campaign in Bosnia. where fighting has claimed at least 17,000 lives and created more than 1 mil­lion refugees. 
Mediators barter amid violence .·. 
GENEVA (AP) --,. The.leader of Bosni<UI Serbs said Tuesday he accepted mediators' peace proposal!l. apparently dropping demands for a separate state wlthin the war-
ravaged nation. . .. . ···•·····
But a leader ofthe self~styled Bosnian Serb Republic pre­dicted lawmakers would noJ back the deal by Radovan Karadzic. 
The disagreement illustrates the fragile state of efforts by mediators Cyrus Vance and Lord Owen to end the ethnic fighting in Bosnia­Herzegovina, where Serbs led by. Karadzic control about 70 percent ofthe territory. 
Combat continues sporadically in Sarajevo and along a Serb~ held land corridor in northern Bosnia. 
Increasingly, Western leaders are speaking of some form of military intervention to stop the Serbs. Were ultranationalists to control Russia's policy, linking it 
Take aSpring Break reality check. 
Padre
Trash the of winter and school, and don the warmth of a tropical island. 
Next, slip into the rippin' blue waters of South Padre. Soak up the sun on our 34 miles of white sand beaches. Our playground has beach volleyball, sand castle building contests and lots of really cool ~----.._ entertainment. ~ 
Detour from the beach and experience the ultimate in partying with our sensational night life. And we Party Smart on South Padre so you won't fall off the deep end. If you're in the mood for a real fiesta, just drive 20 minutes for adiversion in Mexico. 
Centralized island accommodations fit any budget. Call the Visitors Bureau for acolor brochure on hotels, motels, and condos. And save some real chump change (up to 50 percent!) on select airlines. Southwest, American and Continental serve The Valley International Airport in Harlingen. 
with the Serbs, the West would again be pitted against Russia. 
In World War I, Russia fought with Serbia against the Austrians, who declared war on Belgrade in retaliation for the murder of their archduke in Sarajevo. Croats, then part of the Austro-Hungarian empire, fought with the Austrian army. 
Russians and Serbs are mainly Orthodox Christians. In Bosnia, Serbs are battling Roman Catholic Croats and Slavic Muslims. 
Over the last six months, Serbia's state-run TV has fea­tured interviews and footage of pro-Serbia, Russian nationalists in Bosnia ranging from fierce­looking Cossack fighters to be­medaled former Red Army generals to cosmonauts. 
All strongly criticize Yeltsin, who has gone along with sanc­tions against Serbia. 
On the domestic front, Yeltsin has permitted the former Soviet republics to secede without making claims on their territory. Russian troops have intervened to protect ethnic Russians from fighting in places like Georgia and Tajikistan. 
Get the bare facts on discounts for you and your friends by calling South Padre Island FREE' 
1-800-343-2368 

page 7 


The Observer/Julie Kozdras 

Getting ready for a new semester 
Keenan Hall freshman Jay Matushak fills out his enrollment form yesterday during enrollment at the JACC. 
First Soviet N-bomb copied 
U.S. weapon, designers say 
MOSCOW (AP) -The de­signers of the first Soviet atomic bomb admitted Tuesday it was an exact copy of a U.S. weapon, and that they had hundreds of pages of spy in­formation at their disposal. 
At the time, Soviet scientists were convinced they could be subjected to U.S. nuclear bom­bardment and feared dictator Josef Stalin's wrath if they failed to develop the bomb, physicists Yuli Khariton and Yuri Smirnov said. 
Khariton, the bomb's chief constructor, cautioned that "we must not exaggerate the role of intelligence" in developing the Soviet bomb. 
"Previous work by Soviet scientists had provided strong starting positions when they began to solve the atomic problem," he said in a joint pa­per with Smirnov. 
The two spoke at Moscow's leading nuclear research cen­ter, the Kurchatov Institute, on the 90th anniversary of the birth of its founder, Igor Kur­chatov. He supervised the So­viet nuclear program from 1943 until his death in 1960. 
The gathering revealed the extent to which the Soviet Union depended on espionage early in the atomic age. 
"Intelligence brought exten­sive information from the United States. Kurchatov was given special rooms at the 'Big House' on Lubyanka Square (secret police headquarters) and in the Kremlin, where he spent many hours reading these materials," said Igor Golovin, Kurchatov's colleague and biographer. 
Khariton and Smirnov said that when Kurchatov was ap­pointed head of the nuclear weapons program in March 1943, he wrote two memoran­dums "comparing the results achieved by the Soviet scientists with intelligence information." 
In the memos, recently de­classified, Kurchatov said "it was very important for us to learn" that Western scientists had confirmed Soviet findings on spontaneous fission of ura­nium -a key finding in atomic bomb design. 
But Kurchatov also doubted some Western results. fearing they might be "an invention meant to disorient our science." 
Intelligence information also yielded the notion of using plu­tonium to build a nuclear bomb, the documents showed. 
In September 1944, Kurcha­tov wrote to Lavrenti Beria, Stalin's secret police chief, to complain about the slow pace of Soviet work compared with the vast scope of the Western project-on which he had read "new and quite extensive, 300­page materials," Golovin said. 
Notre Dame 1993 College Bowl Tournament Deadline for submitting entries: January 14, 1993 Send team rosters to: Dr. Peter Lombardo Center for Continuing Education Notre Dame Call 239-6691 for information packet 
Play begins--Saturday, January 16, 1993 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, January 13, 1993 
Police jail suspect in Pa. campus rapes 
BLOOMSBURG, Pa. (AP) ­
The husband of the Blooms­
burg University police chief 
was in jail Tuesday on 
charges he raped a college 
employee and is being 
investigated in a series of 
rapes that have terrorized 
the eampus. 
William Kreisher. Columbia 
County district attorney, 
wouldn't call Michael Reece 
Boykin a suspect in the four 
oth(~r rapes but eonfirmed 
that state and Bloomsburg 
police were investigating the 
p ossibill ty. 
Boykin, who works in the university maintenance de­partment, was accusnd of the Dec. 18 rape of n woman employee of the department in a university-owned truck. 
He was suspended from his job without pay. 
Boykin's wife. Margaret Boykin, became the univer­t?ity police department's chief in October. She took a temporary leave from her job following her husband's arrest, school officials said 
Tw~sday. 
Boykin. 41. was arraigned Monday on charges of rape, attmrtpted rape, aggravated indecent assault, indecent assault and simple assault. He was in the county prison Tuesday in lieu of $75,000 bail. A preliminary hearing was set for Jan. 20. 
"I have no doubts in my mind that I am innocent of 

all these charges," Boykin 
said during the arraignment. 
Besides the Dec. 18 case, 
four rapes were reported at 
the 6,378-student university 
in the past 14 months: one in 
December 1991, the other 
three since Oct. 31. · 
The rapes prompted com­plaints from students about security. The university of* fered on-campus housing for women living off campus and set up a service to escort women across campus. 
Boykin sent a letter to uni­versity officials saying his ar­rest was racially motivated. Both Boykin and his accuser are black. 
"I was told on arrival that Bloomsburg University is fa­mous for shafting men of' color. I did not relocate to this unfriendly, forbidden town to have my good name sullied," he wrote. He also contends that the university violated its own procedures when it suspended him. 
University President Harry Ausprich said no procedures were circumvented and no racial bias was involved. 
One trustee, Howard John­son, disagreed. 
"Does this have overtones of being racially motivated? I think it does," Johnson said. 
Johnson called for an inde· pendent investigation, saying that it cannot be assumed that the state police are above racial discrimination. 

Happy 21st Birthday Heather! 
Love Mom and Dad 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 , '94 school year Call 232 , 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
Racial peace is crucial, students say 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Pro­moting racial harmony is im­portant to college freshmen, according to a survey. 
Forty-two percent of college freshmen surveyed by the Uni­versity of California, Los Ange­les, said that "helping to pro­mote racial understanding" was an essential or very important goal, an increase of 8 per­centage points over a 1991 survey. 
"Given the events in Los An­geles, we wondered if we would see polarization, see people pessimistic about the future of race relations. In fact, we were heartened that it went the other way," said Eric Day of the UCLA Graduate School of Education. 
The survey is conducted an­nually by UCLA's Higher. Edu­cation Research Institute and the American Council on Edu­cation. More than 300,000 stu­dents at 606 schools were asked to fill out questionnaires involving their lifestyles, atti­tudes and backgrounds. 
This year, a record 66 percent said they had performed volunteer work in the past year. 
"Taken as a whole, these findings suggest that students today are substantially more committed to serving their communities and to working for social and political change than were students who entered college just a few years ago," said Alexander Astin, a UCLA professor of higher education and the survey's founding director. 
Black students in particular cited the importance of promot­ing racial harmony. Nearly three-quarters of students at­tending all-black institutions, 73 percent, said they consid­ered the promotion of racial understanding an essential or important goal. 
A quarter of the respondents said they frequently discuss polities. 

Utah faces worst January snows in history 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -Tuesday, but that only led to Elderly people were trapped in some fears that melting snow their homes and roofing com­would tur.n Salt Lake City's panies were swamped with streets into free-flowing rivers calls after Utah's worst January like it did after a particularly storm piled snow so high it heavy storm in 1983. blocked walkways and threat­ened to collapse roofs. But some people said the 
Nearly 41 inches of snow fell storm brought local residents at Salt Lake International Air­together, and that things would port between Jan. 1 and Mon­have been far worse if it hadn't day afternoon, triple the aver­been for neighborly coopera­age for the entire month. tion. 
The skies finally cleared On the city's west side, Bob 
M
ake the Midwest"s premier newspaper a part of your college life and save 45"/o off the regular newsstand price. Subscribe and enJOY the convenience of having the Chicago Tribune delivered to your res1dence hall or apartment. 
Transmitted via satellite to pnnt1ng sites throughout the Midwest, the Chicago Tnbune gives you complete coverage of late-breaking news and features: 
~ Get spectacular full-color coverage of the NCAA, 
Bulls, Cubs, White Sox and more! 
~ Enjoy comics, features, mov1e and music reviews. 
~ Pulitzer Pnze-winning columnists. 
Take advantage of this special offer and save 45-t. off the regular newsstand price! Get Monday ­Saturday delivery for just $1.65 per week or daily and Sunday for only $2.50 per week. The Chicago Tribune...you can see the whole world from here. 
Crosley helped neighbor Flo­rence Davis extricate her car for the second time in as many days. 
''I'm 73, and it's kind of hard," Davis said. "I fell the other day when I was shoveling. I fell so hard backwards my hat flew off." 
"I remember back in '48, I used to stand on top of the house and step into a snow­drift," Crosley said. "Of course, I was only S." 


Yes! I want to subscribe to the Chicago Tribune! 
Order Type Price per Week #of Weeks Your Price 
Mail to: Chicago Tribune 0 Daily and Sunday $2.50 x 435 ~-Michigan Ave. Room 504
0 Dailyonly $1.65 Chicago, 1160611-9915
0 Sunday only $1.00 X 
0Billm~ 

m1mmum =~ weeks 0 Paym~nt ~nclosed (check or money order) 0 Pl~ase charg~ my: 0 MasterCard 0 VISA :J Amencan Express :J Discover Card 
Account No. Exp. Date Signature -------­
Please Pnnt Name Year 1n school
Addre-s-:s/=-Do_r_m________________.:.__Apt ------­City---:;--:-------------------State Zip___
Phone(__) --­
Will you be attending summer school? 
DYes 0 No 

In are.as ...vhere homt dehveN" •s not avt~t~ble, m~nl subscnpt•ons will tP. -::Here:d Th•s offer exorres July;· •'n3 
Offer not vahd With anv Other Chrcago Tnbune: dtscount, 01 tnstde the at;:>Junty ChiCago TnOune: pnmary -~~.~area OP 34 
~-­

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 13, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Declaration seeks changes to further 'equality' 
Dear Editor: We believe that the University 
In this time of increased op­must establish a gender re­We believe that single sex portunities for women in poli­source center to adequately ad­dorms impede relations be­tics and the working world, dress issues surrounding gen­tween the sexes, restricting Americans should be aware of der on this campus. friendships and preventing true the long struggle that made understanding. these opportunities possible. We believe that bills sent Thanks to the diligent efforts of home should be addressed to We believe parietals are a pa­a small group of dedicated men both parents, not just the father. triarchal institution designed to and women, we have come a protect students from their own long way on the road to equal­We believe that any class that sexual weakness. They suggest ity; however, there still remains calls itself "Modern Drama" but that men and women can not be a great deal that needs to only studies 27 white males friends between 2 a.m. and II change. isn't very modern. a.m. thus emphasizing only the 
In 1848, several men and sexual relations between the women gathered in Seneca We believe that the Catholic sexes. Falls, N.Y. to demand equality church should reassess the between the sexes. Imitating Pope's doctrines on the ordina­We believe that every person the style of the Declaration of tion of women. on campus should feel free to Independence, the convention speak freely despite race, reli­

members wrote the Declaration We believe that Notre Dame gion, gender, or sexual prefer­of Sentiments and Resolutions does not care about women's ence. A university should be an 
which included what "they be­total health, mental and physi­institution of freedom; main­not just a women's movement. tration's attitude towards rape lieved" to be the rights of cal, recognizable in their denial taining a dominant ideology is a encourages it to be kept a se­women. of a women's center. form of patriarchy. We believe that people should cret issue on campus which 
We have put this Declaration be open-minded rather than furthers the problem. to further revision to reflect our We believe that being invested We believe that women simply liberal or conservative. beliefs about what needs to with the same moral should be given the chance to We believe that a Catholic in­change in the modern world consciousness, administrative, prove that men are not their in­We believe there should be a stitution such as Notre Dame, and. more particularly, on this and intellectual capabilities tellectual superiors. maternity leave/child care pol­which will ask a pregnant stu­
campus: women have an equal right to icy and places of employment dent to leave because the preg­especially at institutions affili­nancy itself is a violation of du­
be president of the University. We believe that society should ated with the Christian faith. Lac, should ask the father, if
WE BELIEVE allow men and women to con­
We believe that the women's centrate on their similarities also a student, to leave as well. We believe that Mary on the flag football deserves as much and common understanding We believe that feminine and 
dome should not be the only press space in The Observer as rather than accentuate their masculine qualities are cultural We believe that Notre Dame woman in a prominent, public men's interhall. differences. constructions rather than sci­should establish Gender Studies position. entific facts. as a major field of study, and 
We believe that men's dorms We believe that women not just a concentration. We believe that women's should have laundry facilities of should not be expected to get We believe that understand­
athletics should have an equal their own rather than relying married, raise a family, and ing history helps one to under­number of scholarships to on women's dorm facilities. have a demanding career. stand the present and one's role Beth Lamont men's sports. in the overarching societal Beth Ann Fennelly 
We believe that the Irish We believe that a woman who framework. Kathryn Albertini We believe that all residence Guard should develop a new decides to stay home and raise Maura Fenningham halls· should have security tradition that includes women a family should be respected We believe that Abor­William Robinson 
tion/Women's ability to give Cathleen Dick 
guards. in the squad. just as much as a man who 
birth is not her "trump card" Grace Donaire 
works outside the home. 

We believe that the University We believe that the University over man as some .editorialists Becky Barnes should have more female pro­should open a day care center We believe that men should would have you believe. Mary Murphy fessors with tenure. for students and teachers with realize their important role in 
children. 

DOONESBURY 
lA!& N/3&0 TO UVE/..OP A PLAIJS18tb RATIONAL£ FOI<. tuHYtui3'VI3 tu!THH/31£1/<&Y 513CT/ONS FRa't1 TH/3 SP/3­
CIA!.-PR05eW7VR.. 
/ 

We believe that the adminis­
the feminist movement -it is 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

fl{)t(J ABOUTIF BifrTHAT 

NO, MIUI&'SA
lH/3006
1Ub54Y, "HbY, IXJI39./'T 

/AI?I7liR HE!R.-.
GOTTA PUT 7J{{)St3 !3XPLAIN AT/37HEM? 

5&/F. NOON/3'!?
f?J.f£SBtiHINPUS, a!HY7HI3Y't<E 

8eU&Vl31T.
60TTA Move ON. " MISSING. 

.1\ /_ \ I 
'I was going to buy a copy of 
The Power of Positive Thinking 
and then I thought: What the hell good would that do?' 
Ronnie Shakes 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
..... 

Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, January 13, 1993 
Drugs and Notre Dame: Strange days incteed. • • 
The first time I saw anything but sometimes they would drop Baggie and all the paranoiCJt couple of joints. At my tenth about bungee-jumping was couple of dexies and sit up Pete Peterson swept away. People weren't reunion in 19R1, there was a about a dozen years ago, when talking or writing. Then, too, Beyond Freedom Rock smoking dope openly, but they morose, laughing discussion of some guys went out on the they might drop in order to weren't smoking it so covertly this at the Monogram Club 1,053-foot-high Hoyal Gorge study, but end up talking all carpeting. either; they weren't putting the banquet: Those poor bastards Bridge in Colorado and lept into night instead. There was oc­Consequently, the freaks towel under the door, and it picked the wrong time to be at space. I thought it was pretty casionally crystal available. would double-lock their doors, wasn't unusual to walk through Notre I>anw, because for one stupid at th1~ time, but it did There was one fellow who used open their windows, tapP. a cloud as you went down a shining moment, guitarslingers seem like, well, if it were safe, it to make "methadrine milk­around their transoms and lay a dormitory hallway. outranked linebackers. · would he a real rush. shakes," probably mostly to towel across their doorjambs to What happened was that Strange Days indeed. But 
This summer. all kinds of impress people. At any rate, in keep the smoke from going into drugs quit being the exclusive let's be frank: The cheerl!~aders people jumped off cranes with 1967. needles were extremely the hallway. province of the freaks. All sorts may have hustled us for dope, rubber hands on their ankles, rarn at NO, and those few who There were passwords and of people began to smoke dope but don't kid yourself: Their and some of them hit the used them were surreptitious secret knocks, and newcomers from accountants to football hearts belonged to the guys on ground pretty hard, because about it, even among their were almost routinely asked players to student government the field, as much as they 
they didn't think what they friends. point-blank if they were law en­types. and it was no longer belonged to anyone. were doing was stupid and they Grass was also handled with forcement officers, the theory necessary to be paranoid. And there was a price to pay. weren't very careful. care. Not that it was danger­being that, if a fed failed to In fact, it was no longer even Some of us took drugs as seri­
Drugs were pretty much like ous: the marijuana we smoked identify himself when asked, the cool to be paranoid. By spring ously as we would have taken that, 25 y1~ars ago when I was was probably about a third the bust could be thrown out of of '68, the dopesmokers began bungee jumping, but most did an ND freshman. At first, most potency of modern grass. It court. to come out of the closet. By not. One guy I knew stole a people were too aware of the was just giggleweed, intended If that sounds silly today, it's fall of '68, being a head went bread truck and raced down obvious danger to try them, and to mellow you out, give you the probably because it was silly from a guilty secret to a boast, Portage Avenue through a hail then everyone seemed to lose munchies and make the music back then. Everybody in the and, for nominally straight of police bullets, then was found their fear and their judgment. more intense. hall knew what was going on in people, that is, for people who in an incoherent state and hos­
Heally, taking drugs is no What made it dangerous was the rooms where people came kept their hair trimmed and pitalized. Another dropped out more dangerous than jumping that you could go to jail for pos­up, knock then whispered their shoes shined, being able and became a Hare Krishna. off a suspension bridge with sessing it in any quantity, and something, whereupon locks score a lid of grass for a party Another biP.w off a Danforth rubber bands on your ankles. If this was a time when lots of were thrown open and the door was as good as getting Southern Fellowship and went around the you prepare carefully, if the people were eager to jail long­quickly opened, letting out a Cal tickets at cost. country selling fruit leather on people with you know what they hairs and dissidents on any few bars of Sgt. Pepper flash of It made it very weird to be a the strP.et. Of the guys I was are doing, and if the rubber pretext. There were stories of black light and a hint of in­freak. From being despised close to freshman year, only one bands are in good shape and people being busted for in­cense, and then shut and dou­outcast, you suddenly were the graduated in four years, and it right for the task, it's no fintessimally small amounts of ble-barred. center of attention. Cheerlead­wasn't me. A lot didn't problem. If not, Royal Gorge the stuff, scraped out of Anyway, somewhere around ers started buddying up to you, graduate at all. beeomes a few niillimeters pipebowls or vacuumed out of spring, the cat got out of the because you could get them a deeper in one spot. Was it worth it'? Beats me. I 
The Class of 1971 did not in­kind of feel that those who vent drugs, but we got to see gained insight would have some interesting changes in found it anyway, and a lot of the attitude at Notre Dame. In the freaks were only interested in 
grass. Add was around, but most people went off-campus Pete Peterson '71 is a busi­for the additional privacy need ness writer with the Press-Re­to trip. publican. a daily newspaper in 
People sped mostly to study, Plattsburgh. New York. 
Cultural diversity will enhance 'true' sense of cor11munity 

Dear Editor: students, which limits the va­and, in turn, benefit the Uni­extend a student's knowledge of include the study of many cul­
From the moment I stepped riety of culture. versity in many ways. the world. He or she can ex­tures. The DART book does list on the Notre Dame campus. I perience ethnic food. dance, a few courses in different cul­knew I had become part of a Secondly, other schools offer Having many students from and customs, and take part in a tures, but only five, ten. and new family. With Notre Dame's more attractive financial aid different cultures would intro­culture that books can only tell maybe twenty people are al­strong Catholic faith, high packages, Since minorities duce different perspectives on about. lowed into those classes. The standards of education, and make up a large number of the debatable issues. The perspec­classes could help cultural di­winning football program. how poor they are likely to attend tive of the first generation im­When students leave their versity by holding cultural fes­could anyone not want to join the university that offers them migrant or the first generation, studies and enter their careers tivals with ethnic food and the Notre Dame family'? the most financial aid. Univer­minority college student would they will not only interact with dance from around the world. 
Despite these characteristics, sities that offer attractive fi­broaden the average Notre a variety of personalities but a however, the University lacked nancial aid packages probably Dame student's vision of the variety of cultures. Learning to However. regardless of how something I have always had enroll more minority students. world he or she lives in. interact with different cultures much cultural diversity the around me -a variety of cul­in college will help them look University offers, things will not ture. Although the Hispanic, Thirdly, after you become a Students who learn about beyond the physical differences change unless we, the students, Asian and African organizations part of Notre Dame, the aca­each other's culture also feel of another person and conduct want to change. As a student at hold campus-wide activities, demic burden allows limited more comfortable around each themselves in the ways both Notre Dame, I believe cultural few people attend. free time to participate in any other. My dream is to one day productive and beneficial to ev­diversity will further enhance 
activities. During the little free enter the dining hall and not be eryone. A variety of culture the sense of community on 
Many factors rather than a time available, most students able to see the separate His­would create a true sense of campus and make Notre Dame single person or group, deserve simply want to relax. Express­panic Asian and African groups. community a more well-rounded University. the blame for the lack of ing their own culture and cultural diversity at Notre learning about other cultures is In addition to easing social I believe the University could Miguel Berastain Dame. I believe, however, that a the last thing on their minds. relationships. interacting with help initiate cultural diversity Keenan Hall more culturally diverse student culturally diverse people can by expanding its curriculum to Dec. 7, 1992 body would enhance the sense Finally and most importantly, 
of community and add a new a conservative atmosphere dimension to Notre Dame life. pervades the Notre Dame cam­pus. Nobody wants be set apart 
As mentioned, there exist and take part in aetivities seen many reasons for the lack of as different or drifting from the cultural variation at Notre norm. A powerful sense of Dame. One of the main reasons community exists at Notre ineludes Notre Dame's strong Dame because of the strong Catholic tradition. Most Anglo similarities in student's aetions, and European Americans, style of clothing, and viewpoints around the country and the on certain issues. This sense of world, are also of the Catholic community creates a student faith and therefore comprise body which expresses little the majority of the Notre Dame cultural diversity. student body. Many minority students are not Catholic and As a member of a minority, I Notre Dame's Catholic tradition personally believe life at Notre does not appeal to them, thus Dame needs to change. A stu­they do do not apply. This dent body with a variety of cul­

leaves few numbers of minority tures will introduce change 
Accent 

Wednesday, January 13, 1993 page 11 
Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 

Just say 'no' to the real world 
T 
ired of interviewing? Sick of getting letters beginning with "Although you are a child prodigy brainchild, we don't 
want you"? Tired of looking like an 
overdressed yuppie wannabe wearing a navy blue suit to classes? Search no longer, in­terview no more-here are several "get rich quick" sehemes: 
Manufacture fake resumes 
You've watched your electrical engineering friend with a 2.3 GPA suffer through rejection after rejection as if she or he were in a torture chamber. Use your computer expertise to revital­ize your friends' resumes. Change that 2.3 to a 
3.9. Turn an American Studies major into a suc­cessful chemist with the click of a mouse. 
Change run of the mill activities into dazzling, eyecatching hobbies. Soon your friend who was a member of the oh-so-important task force to "determine-whether-or-not-all-men-on-campus­own-windsor-striped-ties-and-duck-boots" and the Junior Selective Coverings Committee which determined whether having both blue and gold tablecloths clashed with the overall color scheme of a function will have vibrant, eye-catching ac­tivities such as president of the spear-fishing as­sociation and members of the Computer Guru and Bungee Jumping clubs. 
Friends will see immediate results. They will get the interviews they dream of and you will GET HICH QUICK. 
Take up donations for faux petitions 
Are you bitter about having to pay $7 or $8 for a meal at the dining hall when you only eat $3.99 worth of food? Start a "I want to get what I pay for" petition. Solicit signatures and funds for your cause. Be diligent and persistent, solicit your cause well. At the end of the semester,voila-you graduate, and your three month trip to Europe is fully financed. 
Become an in-dorm hairstylist 
Have you ever seen anyone with a "Chia-cut" -complete with greenery? How about a "nest­do?" Or the "Golden dome do?" Use your creativity to make a mark in the hair fashion world. The more bizarre, the better. Send pictures of your newly discovered "styles" to top fashion magazines such as Vogue or Cosmopolitan and wait to be discovered. Soon you will be creatively styling the hair of the rich and famous. 
Manufacture Fightin' Irish Weather Vanes 
A brilliant close-knit group of people discovered this yet-to-be-produced hot item while watching the Cotton Bowl on television. 
A decorative Santa Claus weather vane on top of the television set during the game provided the inspiration, and the ND bookstore "on the cam­pus" has yet to take advantage of this hot item. 
This weather vane was a wooden carved Santa Claus standing on an arrow. It does not turn with the wind. but can be positioned manually to point in another direction. These loyal fans believe that positioning the weather vane on top of the televi­sion set to point in the appropriate direction brings luck and touchdowns for the Irish. 
The minute the weathervane was turned to point in the direction of the Irish drive, the team scored. The key is to turn it at every quarter and to "rub Santa for luck" regularly. 
Just imagine the marketability of this hot item, if instead of Santa, a leprechaun was used. Selling this hot item, along with the story and purpose behind it would be a sure way to get rich quick. Just think about the thousands of alumni who would snatch this item up. Alumni would buy them in bulk quantities. 
So, to all the seniors who are panicking over the shortage of jobs, capitalize on one of these golden opportunities, and all of your anxieties will cease to exist. Act fast, before the novelty wears off and soon you will never have to venture into the vast abyss of Career and Placement. Be freed from navy blue suitdom forever! 

Jeanne Blasi is production manager of The Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 


•
PIS 



Irish Claddagh rings are acurrent craze with arich history 
By MONICA YANT friendship, the heart stands for love his right hand with the crown facing AND JAHNELLE HARRIGAN and the crown serves as the bond of his fingernail. But he didn't just loyalty that unites them, for the decide how to wear it-he followed
Accent Writers 
Claddaghs are said to bring to life the the rule of the Claddagh. Irish motto, "Let love and friendship Centuries ago, Irish women-and
They are everywhere. And some 
reign." some men-had only two choices ofeven estimate that one out of every Although Claddaghs are given to how to wear the ring: right ringthree women students at Notre Dame children in Ireland at major stages of finger, or left. If a woman was single,
and Saint Mary's wear them. In gold, in silver, with diamonds or their lives -like first communion the ring on her right hand with the 
and confirmation -the rings were crown facing her wrist gave suitorsgems, the sight of the ancient Irish 
Claddagh rings gives Notre Dame made famous as the unique wedding notice of her availability. But if a bragging rights of sorts among Irish band of the Irish. Once worn by woman received the Claddagh as an 
virtually all women on Ireland's engagement ring, she wore it on hercircles consumed by tradition. 
Junior Kathleen Aurigemma, who's western coast and islands, the ring left hand with the crown facing her half Irish, half Italian, sports one with historically represented the major nail, to signal that she had given her 
investment of the fishing family and "heart" away.
a sparkling purple amethyst. Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations was handed down from mothers to But with time and Americanization, and Information, got his ring of thick daughters for generations. the rules grew complicated. The rings gold and green marble while living in ••• are now seen on other fingers, even Ireland in the 1970s. And Notre Dame Notre Dame senior Colleen Nevin thumbs. And the legend now includes 
senior Amy Hardgrove has faithfully knows the stories well. She should, variations of "how taken" a woman is since her father is an Irish immigrant. considered depending on who bought
followed the tradition of turning her 
silver ring with a marble stone to Nevin lives in a heavily Irish district the ring and who does the turning. correspond with her love life-many in Boston and believes the rings, for ••• many Irish Americans, are a way to The Claddagh is a family tradition
times. 
"In a sense, [the Claddagh] has got show pride in their heritage. But she for Notre Dame junior Liz Heinrich. a sort of universal appeal here," acknowledges that the rings have Many of her family members wear a 
Moore said of the ring's intense been tarnished by years of Claddagh, and Heinrich received her popularity at Notre Dame since the Americanization and Irish gold ring as a Confirmation gift from late 1980s. And although greater discrimination. her grandmother, a native of Ireland. cultural awareness among Irish "A lot of Irish people . . . tried to She's known of the tradition since 
shove the tradition away to hide their she was very young, and said she
Americans might be partially 
responsible, Moore acknowledged roots -in the South, the far West loves the symbolism of friendship, that jewellers' "shrewd marketing" of and during the 1920s, when 'No Irish love and loyalty. "It's a reminder of 
the rings certainly hasn't hurt sales need apply' signs were everywhere,"' the fact that I am Irish," she said. "It any. she said. always makes me think of my grand­The Claddagh's growing popularity mother's family." To understand the role of the may indicate that the times, and For others who want the golden Claddagh at a school like Notre Dame climate, have changed. They can now reminder, Claddaghs can be 
be spotted on blacks, Hispanics and purchased at virtually every majoris to first know the ring's history. Irish 
legends, like legends, Chinese in cities across the country. jewelry store and at Irish specialty
most are unprovable at best. But most sources They've been dubbed by major shops. Most of the rings are still trace the ring about 300 years back newspapers "in" for fashion­handmade in Galway, in a process to the tiny fishing village Claddagh conscious kids. And even the famous that takes up to 12 hours. The rings 
have endorsed them: Oscar-winner range anywhere from $20 for a
just outside Galway on Ireland's western coast. Angelica Huston is among many sterling silver version to $10,000 for 
One story centers on a wealthy Irish movie stars who flaunt the ring -an elaborate mix of gold, diamonds widow who gave her riches to charity only hers was a gift from model­and emeralds. and was rewarded with the first gold friend Jerry Hall. At Notre Dame, the Hammes Claddagh from the mouth of an eagle. ••• Bookstore is Claddagh central Another tale links the Claddaghs with For Mike McKinnon, wearing a headquarters. Rings sell out quickly, 
Claddagh ring seemed natural. The according to store employees,
other "fede," or faith rings of Medieval Irish history. Notre Dame senior said the ring is especially during football season and 
But the most often recited legend common in his hometown of Boston, the holidays. And to make matters dates the rings to 1689 when a crew especially among men. "A lot of guys easier for the Claddagh connoisseurs, 
of Claddagh fishermen were captured in Boston wear them-it's kind of a the store includes instructions and and taken hostage by feuding Boston thing," he said. the history of the ring with every 
neighbors. One of the young men was He received his gold Claddagh from purchase. 
his parents on his 17th birthday. And for
to have been married that week. But skeptics who see the 
while many in his family wear the Claddagh as a coming and going
After eight years of slave ap­prenticeship to a Moorish goldsmith, ring, McKinnon is in the minority at fancy, hold off on placing any bets. the young man escaped. He returned Notre Dame, where very few male Bookstore officials, students and to Claddagh and found his fiancee still students are seen sporting the administrators believe the rings .are 
waiting. Overjoyed, the Irishman Claddagh. "A lot of girls like it, and here to stay. More than the look and guys really don't say anything," he more than the feel, fans of the
crafted the special ring in her honor. His legacy is a curious creation of said. Claddagh argue that the rings are a two interlocking hands holding a McKinnon, who is half-Irish, knows way for Notre Dame students to send crowned heart. The hands represent the sacred Claddagh-wearing the world a message. 
tradition well. He sports the ring on 
t page 12 The Observer Wednesday, January 13,1993 
Mario Lemieux diagnosed with Hodgkin'!; disease 

Hockey superstar Mario Lemieux (left) has been diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease. The disease is not expected to threaten his life or career. 
younger and begins in a lymph flareup of the chronic back missing 16 games with back­node in the neck, he said. problem that sidelined him for related problems. He was lim­103 games the last 3 112 sea-ited to 26 games in 1990-91, 
For the last five years, sons. missing the Penguins' first 50 Lemieux has been honorary Until last week, Lemieux was games after back surgery be­chairman of the Pittsburgh enjoying his most injury-free fore returning to lead Pitts­Cancer Institute. In TV ads, season in four years and was burgh to the first of its eonseeu­Lemieux talks of losing several threatening Gretzky's NHL tive Stanley Cup ehampionships. close family members to cancer, searing record of 216 points. but does not specify who they Lemieux had 39 goals and 65 Recently voted to play in his where. assists for 104 points. 23 more seventh NHL all-star game, 
than runnerup Pat Lafontaine Lemieux hasn't played close to 
Lemieux and Wayne Gretzky of Buffalo, while playing in 40 a full season since 1988-89, have been the NHL's dominant of the Penguins' first 42 games. when he was in 76 games. stars for nearly a decade, but The Penguins' 29-11-4 record is He missed 22 of the Penguins' Lemieux's all-star career has the best in the NIIL. last 23 games the following been marked by medical prob­season, when he first developed lems. Lemieux won his third NHL a back problem that later 
Lemieux, 27, was already out scoring title in five years with resulted in the surgical removal of the Penguins' lineup with a 131 points last season, despite of a herniated disc. 
The Observer accepts classified!. every bus1ness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30pm. at the Notre Dame office. 314laFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas>~fleds is 3p.m. All class1f1eds must be prepa1d The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Mario Lemifmx has Hodgkin's disease, a cancp.r that attacks the lymph nodes, but his doctor insisted Tuesday the illness shouIdn't threaten the life or career of the hockey star. 
Lemieux, the NHL's leading scorer, was diagnosed in the early stages of the disease after a large lymph node was re­moved from neck, according to a statement issued by the Pitts­burgh Penguins and approved by team physician Dr. Charles Burke. 
The disease is confined to the abnormal lymph node, and subsequent tests have shown no evidence of any other problems. Lemieux is expected to undergo radiation treatment for the next month. 
The Penguins said Lemieux could return to the lineup in 4-6 weeks, although that projection could be overly optimistic if he does undergo radiation treat­ment. 
Hodgkin's disease, named for the English physician who dis­covered it, is a disease of un­known eause eharaeterized by the progressive enlargement of the lymph nodes and inflam­mation of some body organs such as the spleen and liver. 
Lemieux wasn't available for comment and no Penguins team officials would discuss the illness. (;!meral manager Craig Patrick was in California, re­portedly meeting with team owner Iloward Baldwin, but is to return for a news conference Friday that Lemieux will also attend. 
Earlier Tuesday, Lemieux's 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP} ~.Don't tell the Orlando Magic about the tough we~k the GhJ~ago Bulls had. They've had t~mough trouble oftheir own. 
Horace Grant scored 26 points 

teammates made their annual visit to Children's Hospital, but Lemieux was not present. Lemieux reportedly underwent treatment Tuesday in Allegheny General Hospital, but the Penguins would not confirm that. 
Hodgkin's disease is marked by a chronic enlargement of the lymph nodes, the small, eompact structures that line the blood vessels and manufacture infection-lighting antibodies. 
Among the side effects of the disease are anemia and contin­uous fever. 
The fact that Lemieux is un­dergoing radiation therapy is an indication that doctors found the cancer in its early stages, said Dr. Dennis Meisner, an oncologist at Shadyside Hospital in Pittsburgh. 
He said the Penguins' con­tention that the type of Hodgkin's diagnosed in Lemieux's case is the "most fa­vorable" may be misleading. 
"It is a cancer, and all types of 
cancer are very serious," 
Meisner said. "As a cancer, it ean beeome life-threatening." 
If the disease is limited to one lymph node that was removed, it is classified as Stage One Hodgkin's, which has a cure rate of 95 percent, he said. 
Radiation therapy for Hodgkin's disease causes fa­tigue and weight loss, and could make someone too tired to play hockey, Meisner said. The cancer can spread to other parts of the body, including the bone marrow and lungs. 
Hodgkin's disease typically affects people who are 30 or 
Classifieds 
nERVER CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING POLICY 
t. The Observer w1ll provide daily classified advertising as a service to tiS readers In and outs1de the Notre Dame/Sa1nt Mary's the communijy, Class1f1ed advertising will be available under the headings: Nottces, Lost and Found, For Sale, For Rent. Wanted. Tickets. and Personal. Lost and Found advertising is free to the public. 
2. 
Individuals placmg classiiled advertising can do so at the Observer offices at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dunng regular bustness hours, or by sending the requested advertisement. tntended days of publication and payment to the Observer off1ce by mail. Individuals purchasing classified advertising must tnclude their full name address and/or telephone number for Observer records. or the ad will be not be published. 

3. 
The Observer Office Manager will oversee the c1ass1fied advert1s1ng operet1on, but 1tls the Managtng Ed1tor's responsibility to review the advertisements each day. Any advertisement deemed obscene, libelous or otherwise unsuitable for publication will be deleted at the Managing Editor's discretion In extreme cases, the Editor-in-Chief will make the final dec1s1on whether to publish the advertisement No classified advertising will be published without an intt1al of approval from the Managing Editor, the Editor-in-Ch1ef or. 1n unavoidable circumstances, a specially appointed member of the Editorial Board. lnd1v1duals whose ads do not appear as intended should contact the Observer within 1 0 days of the intended publication tor explanatiOn Questions and concerns involving classified advertising should be d~rected to the Managmg Editor 

4. 
The Observer w1ll keep records of Individuals placing classified advertisements for sixty (60) days The Observer cannot be held responsible for quest1ons mvolving advertisements more than 60 days old. nor can 1t be held accountable for individuals providing false information when purchasing classified advertisements. The names of individuals placmg advertisement will not be released to the public as a rule. Except1ons may be made at the Manag1ng Editor or Editor-in-Chief's dlscret1on '" extreme cases necessary to protect the rights of individuals 


NOTICES 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's 1n the Bookmob1le 12-4 daily 233­2342 NO Ave & Howard 
WANTED 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK. 
MONTANA Have the best summer of your life by JOining the team rated tops in prov1ding the best of Western hospitality to Glac1er Park visitors! 
1993 Summer applications now be1ng accepted for the following pos1tions: Bar. Restaurant, K1tchen staffs, Desk Clerks. Salespeople, Store Clerks, Office. Service Station. Housekeeping, and Mamtenance Personnel. Interviews Will be held on campus February 8 & 9 Wnte to: St. Mary Lodge & Resort, 
P.O. Box 1808, Sun Valley. ID 83353 for an application. 

FUNDRAISER 
We're looking for a top fraternity, sorority or student organization that would like to make $500-$1 ,500 for one week marketing protect right on campus Must be organized and hard working. Call (800) 592-2121 ext. 308. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawa1i, Mexico, the Carribean. etc.) Holiday. Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 Reserve '93-94 yr. 1628 Portage 6 bedrm. Beach V-ball ct. 234-3831. 273­0482 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTFIY 219-291-7153. 
FURNISHED ROOM 
$170/MO WALK TO CAMPU~;. 287-2159 
RESERVE ROOM NOW FOR JR. PARENTS WEEKEND. HOME B & B (219) 291-0535. APPROVED BY STATE B & B ASSOC. 
Near N.D. qua1nt, clean furnished apts. 1 bedrm-240 2 bedrm-280 deposit, references 
1-800-582-9320 

I TICKETS 
J 

FOR RENT I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR 1.::-:==~-:-:-::~~---....1 DUKE/NOTRE DAME GAME FE:B. 3 BEDROOM HOUSE 6. CALL COLLECT AFTER 4 00 $490 MONTH + $300 DEP PM SECURITY SYSTEM 616-861-2606. 232-3616 
PERSONAL 

Adoption· Doctor and teacher w1ll make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting Best of the c1ty; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy f1replace in w1nter. and by ocean waves 1n summer. Art. mus1c. the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93' • JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, LIMITED SPACE SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. 
'"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279. PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149. CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $4 79! 1-800-678-6386. 

.....................................................• 
• : • • : :: :: : :: : : : ? ~'
.::::> Iii~ ~ 0 .' ..... . ....... ...... ..... ........ ..... . • ' A ~ tj~, <:::. 
~ ~¥ ~ '~+~BIT . ! . ! ! ! ·.. ! ! ! ! ! ·.. ! -W&1t~W 'W ~ '#I! ~ 
..... ..... ..... . ........ ..... ..... . . ...... 
c • 
NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS 
AUTO RACING Natlonlll Hot Rod Auoclatlon WALES CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCE 
NHRA-Named Jim Teller general manager of Patrick Dlvlalon Atlantic Dlvlalon Atlanta Dragway. W L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv w L Pet GB L10 Streak HomeAway Cc BASEBALL Pittsburgh 29 11 4 62 196 149 17-3-3 12-8-1 13-4-1 NewYork 19 12 .813 5·5 Lost 2 14-3 5-9 MaJor League Baaebel Washington 22 17 4 48 172 154 11-6-3 11-11-1 8-9-1 New Jersey 18 15 .545 2 6-4 Won 1 8-7 10-8 11·10 
MLB-Annou~ thlll the major league owners New Jersey 22 17 3 47 144 140 12-8-1 10-9-2 9-10-1 Boston 18 17 .514 3 8-4 Won 8 10-5 8-12 unanlrTIIUIIy approv«1 the sale ol the San Francleco NY Rangers 20 18 6 46 181 175 13-7·3 7-11-3 8-11-1 Orlando 14 15 
.483 4 4·8 Lost 2 10-8 4-7 10-10 
Glanta to a group of investors led by Peter Magowan. NY Islanders 18 21 4 40 172 164 10-9-0 8·12-4 8-9.() Philadelphia 11 19 .387 7112 8-4 Lost 1 5-10 8-9 9-13 
MLB EXECUTIVE COUNCIL-Announced Jackie Philadelphia 16 19 6 38 160 162 12-6-2 4·13-4 7-10-2 Washington 11 22 .333 9 4-8 Won 1 8-9 3-13 7-17 AI.J.ry ol CaJ~ornla; Bill BartholomaY of Atlama; Paul Adame Dlvlalon Miami 10 21 .323 9 4·6 Won 1 7-8 3-13 6-15 Beeston of Toronto; Doug Danforth of Pittsburgh; Montreal 25 15 5 55 185 152 14-6-2 11-9-3 10-6-0 Central Dlvlalon Fred Kuhlman ol St. Louis; Cart Pohlad of Minnesota; Quebec 24 14 6 54 187 161 12-8·1 12-6-5 11-4-2 Chicago 24 1 0 .706 7-3 Won 1 13-4 11-6 18-7 Hayward SuiIvan ol Boston; and Fred Wilpon of the Boston 23 17 2 48 165 154 14-5-2 9-12-0 11·7-0 Cleveland 20 14 .588 4 7-3 lost 1 15-5 5-9 12-8 New Yot'k Meta, have been named to the search Buffalo 21 16 6 48 194 155 16-4-2 5-12-4 12·5-3 Charlotte 17 14 .548 
5112 6-4 Won 2 8·7 9·7 10.10 committee for a commissioner. Hartford 12 26 4 28 133 189 7·13-4 5-13-0 7-13-2 Detroh 16 16 .500 7 4-6 lost 3 10-6 6-10 14·9 
American League Ottawa 4 38 3 11 100 210 4·17-3 0-21·0 1-17-1 Indiana 16 17 .485 3-7 2 9-6 7-11
7112 Won 11-14 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms wtth Mark CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Atlanta 15 17 
.469 8 4-6 Won 3 7-10 8-7 10-15 Williamson, pttcher, on a one-year contract. Norrie Dlvlalon Milwaukee 14 19 .424 9112 4-6 Lost 1 9·7 5-12 1Q.t0NEW YORK YANKEES-Named Rick Cerone w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv WESTERN CONFERENCE advance acout; Jake Gibbs bullpen coach; and Glenn Chicago 23 16 6 52 149 122 13·6-4 10-10-2 11-7-2 Midweat Dlvlalon Sherlock manager of Tampa of the Gu~ Coast Detroit 23 19 3 49 184 157 13-11-1 10-8·2 8·9-3 w L Pet L10 Streak
GB Horne Away Con! 
League and minor teague catching Instructor. Minnesota 21 15 6 48 150 143 10-6·5 11·9-1 9-4-2 Utah 21 10 .677 lost 1 10-4 11-6
7-3 11-6 National League Toronto 19 17 7 45 141 141 11-7·4 8-1().3 8·7-4 San Antonio 18 t3 .581 3 8·2 Won 3 11-4 7-9 13-9 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to terms with St. Louis 17 20 6 40 149 156 12-8·3 5-12-3 5-9-4 Houston 15 16 .484 Won 16 2·8 10-6 5-10 11-11 
Kevin Elster, shortstop, on a minor league contract. Tampa Bay 15 27 2 32 142 168 8-t0-0 7-17-2 5-10-1 Denver 8 22 .267 1211 21·9 Lost 1 7-7 1-15 6-15 MONTREAL EXPOS-Named Joe Ferrone Smythe Dlvlalon Minnesota 
6 23 .207 14 1·9 Lost 4 3-12 3-11 3-13 
midwest scout and John Hughes acout for northern Vancouver 26 12 5 57 196 129 17·2·2 9-10-3 16-5-2 Dallas 2 27 .069 18 0·10 Lost 12 2-14 1-22
0-13 Cal~ornla. Calgary 25 15 4 54 171 142 14·7·1 11-8·3 12·5-2 Pacific Dlvlalon PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Signed Scott Terry Los Angeles 22 16 5 49 180 173 13·6·2 9-10-3 8·9·2 Phoenix 23 5 .821 9-1 Won 2 12-1 11-4 164 and Drew Hall, pnchers, to rnnor teague contracts. Winnipeg 18 20 4 40 147 160 t2-6·2 6·14·2 7-8·2 Seattle 22 8 .733 9-1
2 Won 5 .15-1 7-7 15-4 International League Edmonton 14 24 7 35 121 176 9·8-4 5-16·3 7-13-1 Portland 20 1 0 .667 4 6-4 lost 1 13-4 1·6 12·7 SYRACUSE CHIEFS-Signed Stu Pederson, San Jose 6 35 2 14 123 2t0 4·18-1 2·17·1 4-14·1 LA Lakers 18 14 .563 7 4-6 Lost 1 9-7 9·7 13-9 outfielder, to a one-year contract. Golden State 18 15 .545 7112 8·2 Lost 1 8-6 10·9 12-7 Carolina League Monday'a Gamea LA Clippers 17 16 .515 8112 4-6 Won 1 10·5 7·11 7-10 PRINCE WILLIAM CANNONS-Named Thomas Vancouver 3, New York Rangers 3, tie Sacramento 13 17 .433 11 7-3 Won 1 10·6 3·11 8·9 Hillman manager; Mark Shntett pitching coach; and 
Toronto 4, Tampa Bay 2 Monday'• Gamea 
How the top 25 teama In The Aaaoclated Wedneaday'a Game•
Brian Milner coach. St. Louis 1, Detroit 0 San Antonio 109, Detroit 91
Presa college beaketball poll fared Tueaday: Washington at Boston, 7:30p.m. 
BASKETBALL Tuesday'• Game• Charlotte 132, Dallas 113 
National Baaketball Aaaoclalion 1. Kentucky (11-0) did not play. Next: at Cleveland at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
Late Games Not lnduded Tuesday'• Games 
ATLANTA HAWKS-Activated Dominique Wilkins, Vanderbih, Wednesday. Late Games Not lnduded Golden State at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m.
Boston 5, Buffalo 2 
forward, from the Injured list. Placed Blair 2. Michigan (12-2) lost to No. 6 Indiana 76-75. Washington 121, Milwaukee 98 Dallas at Detroh, 7:30 p.m.
Los Angeles 3, Ottawa 2 Next: va. Notre Dame, Saturday. San Antonio at Minnesota, 8 p.m.
Rasmussen, center. on the Injured list. 
New York Islanders 8, Calgary 2 Chicago 122, Oriando 106 
CHICAGO BULLS-Signed Joe Courtney, forward, 3. Duke (10-1) did not play. Next: at Wake Forest, Atlanta 126, Golden State 118 New York at Denver, 9 p.m.
New Jersey 3, Vancouver 2 Wednesday. Thursday'a Gamea
to a 1 0-day contract. Chicago at Minnesota, (n) Boston 121, Cleveland 115 
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Actlvated Andrew Lang, 4. Kansas (12-1) did not play. Next: vs. Oral Detron a1 Atlanta, 7:30 p.m.
San Jose at Winnipeg, (n) Indiana 112, Philadelphia 93 center, from the Injured list. Miami at Utah, (n)
Roberts, Thursday. San Antonio at Milwaukee, 8:30p.m. 
Wednesday'• Game• 5. North Carolina (12·1) did not play. Next: vs. Charlotte at Houston, 8:30p.m. 
FOOTBALL Hartford at Montreal, 7:40 p.m. Phoenix at Seattle, (n) 
National Football No. 8 Georgia Tech, Wednesday. Seattle at Utah, 9 p.m. 
League 

Washington at New York Rangers, 7:40p.m. Houston at LA Clippers, (n) 
CHICAGO BEARS-Named Rod Graves dlractor of 6. Indiana (14-2) beat No. 2 Michigan 76·75. LA Lakers at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m.
St. Louts at Toronto, 7:40p.m. New York a1 Saa-amento, (n)
college scouting and Bobby Riggle regional scout. Tampa Bay at Detroh, 7:40p.m. Next: at Illinois, Saturday. Denver at Portland, (n) Phoenix at Saaamento, 10:30 p.m. Canadian Football League 7. Seton Hall (14-1) did not play. Next: at Miami at Portland, 10:30 p.m.
Winnipeg at Edmonton, 9:40 p.m. P~tsburgh, Saturday. 17. Purdue (9-2) did not play. Next:
CFL-Awarded franchises to San Antonio and 
Thursday'• Game• Wisconsin, Wednesday.
8. Georgia Tech (9-1) did not play. Next: at No. 5
Saaamento for the 1993 season. 
Pittsburgh at Boston, 7:40p.m. 18. UNLV (7-1) did not play. Next: vs. University
North Carolina, Wednesday. 

OTIAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Jock Cllmie, 
St. Louis at Ottawa, 7:40 p.m. of the Pacnlc, Thursday.
wide receiver. 9. Arkansas (11-1) vs. Alabama, Tuesday. Next:
Montreal at Quebec, 7:40 p.m. 19. Minnesota (10-1) did not play. Next: at No. 13
at Vanderbih, Wednesday, Jan. 20.

HOCKEY Washington a1 New York Islanders, 7:40p.m. Iowa, Wednesday.
10. Oklahoma (11-3) did not play. Next: vs.
National Hockey League Los Angeles at New Jersey, 7:40p.m. 20. Georgetown (8-2) did not play. Next: vs.
Nebraska, Thursday. 

NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recalled Rich Kromm, Calgary at Philadelphia, 7:40p.m. 
DePaul, Wednesday. 
1I. Cincinnati (9-1) did

left wing, from Capital District of American Hockey Minnesota at Chicago, 8:40p.m. not play; Next: at 21. Ohio State (9-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 23
Cleveland State, Wednesday. 

League. 
Michigan State, Wednesday. 
12. Arizona (7-2) did not play. Next: vs.
American Hockey League 22. Boston College (9-3) lost to Providence 73­
Washington, Thursday. 

FREDERICTON CANADIENS-Recalled Craig 65. Next: vs. No. 15 Connecticut, Saturday. 
13. Iowa ( 11·2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 19 Minnesota, Wednesday. 
Ferguson, right wing, from Wheeling ol the East 23. Michigan State (8-3) did not play. Next: at Coast Hockey League. 
No. 21 Ohio State, Wednesday. International Hockey League 
14. Virginia (9-0) did not play. Next: vs. Clemson, Wednesday. 
24. Syracuse (9-4) did not play. Next: at CLEVELAND LUMBERJACKS-Sent Robert 
Providence, Saturday. Melanson, delenaeman, to Muskegon of the Colonial 
15. Connedicut (7-3) lost to Pittsburgh 80·78. 
25. Utah (10·2) did not play. Next: at Air Force,
Next: at No. 22 Boston College, Saturday. 

Hockey League. Thursday.
(tie) UCLA (10-3) did not play. Next: at Oregon, Thursday. 
3M Sale
The Hammes 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
On the Campus 

Welcome Back Students, Faculty & Staff 


ScotchTM ScotchTM Post--itTM Wallsaver Poster Removable 
Memo Cubes Tape Mounting Square 
$2.99
$1.95 89¢ 
Special hours: 1/13/93~ 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1/14/93~ 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp  
The Observer/Pat McHugh  Lake Dawson sprints away from the defense on his way to Notre  
Brian Ratigan jumps over a Texas A&M's Doug Carter in an attempt to block Corey Pullig's pass.  Dame's first score in the second quarte1· of the Cotton Bowl.  

Mobile Cotton Bowl Januar 1,1993 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
t t 

I The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Senior Craig Hentrich prepares to boot an extra point through the
I
' uprights. 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropf 

Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer eludes the grasp of linebacker Jason Atkinson. 
Wednesday, January 13,1993 
Cotton 
continued from page 20 
The teams traded punts four times before Notre Dame got the ball back at its own 36-yard line with 1:32 left in the first half. 
Two passes and a Reggie Brooks run gave the Irish a first down at the A&M 40-yard line with 57 seconds remaining. But two incompletions later, the Irish faced third and ten. Holtz then turned to an old standby from the Irish playbook. 
Receiver Lake Dawson took a Mirer pass across the middle and high-stepped his way into the A&M end zone, escorted by the entire Irish offensive line. 
"A&M had blitzed us all day 
long, so we called a middle 
screen, which is a delay, and 
executed it into the end zone," 
said Dawson. "Rocket used to 
run that play and did it a lot 
better than I did, but I'm just 
happy it could work for us to­
day." 
The score to end the half 
seemed to electrify the Irish on 
both sides of the ball, as a new Notre Dame team took the field in the second half. 
After holding the Aggies to seven yards on their opening second-half drive, Notre Dame took possession at their 35, and put together a 65-yard, five­minute drive. Bettis hauled in a 26-yard rainbow from Mirer and rumbled into the end zone to make the score 14-0. 
Unable to create any holes against the formidable Irish defensive line, the Aggie offense struggled to earn any first downs, and failed to surprise the Irish defense. 
"They didn't surprise us at all 
with their game plan and did 
exactly what we thought they 
would," said senior linebacker 
Demetrius DuBose. 
Fellow senior Devon McDon­
ald turned in what was perhaps 
his finest performance at Notre 
Dame. His ten tackles, including 
four for losses, continually 
frustrated the Aggie offense. 
When the Irish offense had the ball, they rolled up the A&M defense in the Cotton Bowl's AstroTurf rug. Short Bettis runs capped two long second­half drives, the first of which seemed stalled when Brooks fumbled at the A&M 4 after an 
The Observer 
87 -yard drive. 
But two plays later, Aggie quarterback Corey Pullig fum­bled after a short gain. DuBose recovered. Two plays later, Bettis cashed in, scoring his second touchdown on the day. 
Last week, Bettis cashed in with the NFL, relinquishing his final year of football eligibility and declaring himself eligible for the June draft. His loss fur­ther depletes the store of talent in the Irish backfield, setting Holtz up for tough recruiting and coaching chores in 1993. 
But immediately after the 
Cotton Bowl, Holtz was relish­
ing his success in 1992. 
The Cotton Bowl win moved 
the Irish up one spot in the final 
AP and CNN/USA Today polls, 
placing the team in the number 
four position. But Irish coach 
Lou Holtz thinks that the 1992 
squad, which began the season 
roughly, finished it as the 
strongest team he has coached. 
"At the end of the year, we were playing better than any team I've been around, and that includes the 1988 and 1989 teams," said Holtz. "I would hope that we would finish second." 

Salomon Brothers 
Quantitative Research Analyst 
Salomon Brothers is an international investment banking firm that makes markets in securities and provides a broad range of underwriting, financial advisory and research services to governments. corporations, and institutional investors. 
The BOND PORTFOLIO and EQUITY PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS GROUPS work with Sales, Trading and Investment Banking to help Salomon Brothers' clients quantify and implement investment, 
capital raising, hedging, and asset allocation strategies.  This work includes the development of new  
theoretical  models  for  securities  valuation,  statistical  analysis  of data,  and  the  development  of  
customized client presentations.  

Quantitative Analysts typically act as generalists for up to two years, after which they move forward in their careers by concentrating in one or more of the following areas: 
• 
Modeling financial products such as mortgage backed securities and options; 

• 
Portfolio Structuring and/or Asset Allocation; 

• 
Sales, Trading, or Investment Banking Support; 

• 
Analysis of Stock and Bond Market Returns and Yields; and 

• 
Analytical Systems Development. 


While prior background in finance and economics is helpful, we believe that, given appropriate training and guidance, an analyst with exceptionally strong quantitative skills can come to a deep understanding of the financial markets. 
Training for quantitative analysts includes: 
• 
An introduction to securities analytics; 

• 
A period of internship in different quantitative groups; 

• 
Immediate hands-on training with professionals working on various projects; 

• 
Licensing with the securities industry regulators; and 

• 
Additional technical training as needed to handle newly assigned tasks. 


Qualified candidates will have a B.S. in a quantitative field such as Computer Science, Engineering, Finance, Mathematics, Operations Research, or Statistics. Good analytical and computer skills (C/Unix preferable) are required. Because so much of the analyst's work involves direct interaction with the Firm's clients, strong interpersonal, writing and speaking skills are required. Knowledge of the financial markets is viewed positively. 
Salomon Brothers -Research Department Will Interview on Campus February 2, 1993 
Resumes should be mailed or faxed to: joan Dolph Salomon Brothers Research Department, 37th Floor Seven World Trade Center, New York, NY 10048 Fax# (212) 783-4615 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
accustomed to being beaten like that." 
Though the Aggies were sur­prised with Notre Dame's dominance, Holtz expected it. 
"We sort of expect to be able to run the ball, at least this year," Holtz said. "I don't know what we're going to do next year. Let's give coach (Joe) Moore some credit. The guy is an incredible offensive line coach." 
The Irish offense line allowed Notre Dame to move the ball effectively throughout the game. The same cannot be said for their Lone Star counter­parts. 
The Aggie line could not handle the aggressive Irish defense, and freshman signal­caller Corey Pullig was ha­rassed all day. 
"We weren't confused by their defense, they just put a lot of pressure on me," Pullig explained. "The offensive line couldn't protect me. They (Notre Dame) brought too many guys." 
Getting pressure on Pullig was vital to Notre Dame's de­fensive performance. 
"We knew he was a running quarterback. We wanted to keep him contained, and we knew if we did that we'd be successful," Most Outstanding Defensive Player Devon Mc­Donald said. 
This game plan was a result of the Irish scouting report of the Aggies offense. 
"They didn't surprise us at all with their game plan. They did exactly what we thought they would," linebacker Demetrius DuBose said. "They kept it ba­sic throughout the game and it's a credit to our scouting to show how prepared we were for the game." 
~ ------­
--------------------------.., 
page 15 


r 
t 
t Surprises, disappointments for men's bas•ketball 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, January 13,1993 
! By JASON KELLY 
the Irish missed just about ev­t ery opportunity they had in
Sports Writer 
~ 
games against Xavier and De­r Some unlikely heroes helped troit Mercy. 
I t 
the Notre Dame men's basket­Notre Dame never really ball team win four games dur­threatened in either game, t ing the holidays. And some losing 75-60 to Xavier and 83­unsightly shooting helped them 59 to Detroit Mercy. 
I
' 
lose three. Dayton visited the JoyceI 
I 
Brooks Boyer, Jason Williams Center on January 9, providing and Hyan Hoover emerged from a golden opportunity for the 
the shadows with clutch Irish to break out of their pHrformances to lead the Irish slump. The Flyers taxied to a
I 
to the ehampionship in the 1-10 record, but once again, Sugar Bowl Tournament in New poor shooting plagued the Irish Orleans and wins over Boston attack. College and Dayton. Enter sophomore Jason Boyer's last second heroics in Williams and freshman Ryan the 45-43 win over New Or­Hoover. Williams and his deft leans thrust the Irish into the shooting touch have been hid­championship game of the den at the end of the bench for Sugar Bowl tournament, where most of his college career, while they defeated St. Joseph's (PA), Hoover is just getting his feet 67-64, for Notre Dame's first wet in college basketball. tournament championship in nearly 40 years. Both looked like battle-tested But severe offensive problems veterans against the Flyers. sent the Irish into a three-game Hoover blistered the nets, con­nose dive. Against Southern necting on a school-record 7 of Cal, they fell behind by 25 13 three-point attempts, on his points in the first half, and way to a career-high 28 points. trailed 40-19 at halftime after connecting on only nine of 30 "(Hoover) is not reluctant to field goal attempts. shoot the ball," MacLeod said. The second half was a differ­"He is gaining experience every ent story. Notre Dame scored game, and he played very, very 55 points in the half, led by se­well today." nior Monty Williams, who fin­Williams also came through in ished with 27, and junior Jon the clutch. It was his first Hoss, who scored a career-high action in a crucial situation in 
12. his career and with less than 30 
But the Trojans were too seconds remaining and the shot tough down the stretch, holding clock about to expire, he hit a
were a great more on for a thrilling 77-74 win. three-pointer that kept the Irish 
in the second half and showed a 
is an example of a young man the most of their opportunities.
"We were back on our heels on top. He finished with 10
lot of character in coming 
working hard to get an oppor­Road games against number­
in the first half, our players baek." points in the 71-66 Irish win. 
tunity and making the most of two Michigan and Butler before 
weren't ever perspiring," Irish But character can't make up "I couldn't be happier for J 
it." they return home on January
coaeh John MacLeod said. "We Williams," MacLeod said. "This
for missed opportunities and 
Notre Dame will have to make :~3 to face LaSalle. 
YOU MAKE THE CALL 
**WHAT WILL YOUR RESUME LOOK LIKE?** 
• 20 -30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 

MARK ITAIUl A.ODRUI Cl.l'rent: Home: &55 Some Hell 13346 Bou1h O•k Or. Notr• 08m•, lndl-411511 Gold.,, Color.to 80401 12111 131·7410 (303) 1&6-8486 lDUCATION Unlv~•'Y of Notre D.me, Baotwor of Attt: 1194 Me;ot: YOU' MetOt" H•• Minot· wt.t Ev• You Uke  vs.  NORM l. DOMER ADDRESS CurrW1t: Home: 666 Som• H•ll 133'6 lout~ O•k Dr. Notre D•m•. lndi•NI 486611 Gold.,, Coloredo 110401 1218)1134·74&0 13031 5156-8411& mucATION Unlver•hy of Notre O.me, Bechelor of Arte: 1994 Mejor: Your Major Here Minar: Wtwt Ev• You Uke  
[)(PUQDICE ltuct.nt c•r, Notre Dame Af'lnUIII FLnd Phone c.,t• lhW•etty of Notre 0..-na, Jenuery, 1813 to May, 1114 • Reeporwlble for ~rwl. telephone follow-up of Atvn.•l FLnd eollcltetlon '-It•• • Rel.ed ov• UO.OOO few the Untv•elty whloh WM ueed to help renovate Sacred Hutt Chich IMCI lA Fortune Stud.,t c.,t•, to provlda fl..ndlng for eaholerehipe and !l'da-wrha thl dally Dl*'atlna cqtt of Notre 0..-ne • E•ned lop Cellar~ etMUJ durlna the tprll"'4iJ 1183 teme.t• • Dw•pact ..-..gotletlon teohnlqu. .net lnt•,_..,.,., oommunc..lon eklllt • S.Ved • • llal.on between tM um...lty .-.d lUI •11..-nnl  EXPBUENCE Burger fHpper, E.t-0· Reme South Bend, lndrane, Septemb. 1991 to Pf'...-.1 • terved drlve-thru, ..t-In, M'ld teka out cuttomere • menaaed ov• &00 cn•tom• ord•• eeoh dey  

• 
$5.30 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • tmining 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


INTERESTED? 


Please join us for an informal 
PEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSIO 
Thursday, January 14th 4:00-6:00p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast comer of Badin Hall) 


If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffmet (631-7241) 

Wednesday, January 13,1993 


Ho one prepares you for the MCAT better than Kaplan. OUr MCAT prep course teaches you exactly what the t-t covers and the test· taking skills you'll need to KOre your best. We offer live ct-.-, llonle study not-, and audio review. Plus, no one else has a .,._.. exterwive MCAT resource libn1ry than Kaplan. 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
The Observer page 17 

athletic director position, and Krause maintained himself there for 32 years until his re­tirement in 1980. 
During Krause's reign, Frank Leahy, Ara Parseghian, and Dan Devine won national foot­ball titles for the Irish. Even after his retirement, Krause had a lot of influence on an­other national championship coach, Lou Holtz. 
"He said to me, he always felt like I would end up here," Holtz said. "He would come by my office every single day when he thought I was down. Just talk­ing to him made you feel bet­ter." 
Among the national champi­onships Krause had a part in, he also earned many individual honors. These include an in­duction into the National Bas­ketball Hall of Fame in 1976, the NFL's "Most Outstanding Contributions to Amateur Foot­ball" award received in 1981, and being named Distinguished American by the National Foot­ball Foundation in 1989. 
Notre Dame also honored the man by naming its 5000-seat multi-purpose outdoor stadium after Krause. And the football team paid its respects in the Cotton Bowl, wearing the word "Moose" across the front of their helmets. 
Even greater, however, are the honors and praises given Krause by those who knew him. 
''I'm not sure that Notre Dame ever has had anyone who has been the kind of goodwill ambassador that Moose was. Everyone knew Moose," said director of sports information, John Heisler. 
Fencing coach Mike DeCicco tells of an NCAA convention which he attended with such coaching legends as Bear Bryant and Bud Wilkinson. "I remember thinking, 'What am I doing here?' Then Moose walked in and I've never been more impressed with someone's charisma. He drew people like a magnet. Then he saw me, the fencing coach he had hired, and he introduced me to all those guys. He showed me then what Notre Dame meant to him." 
The Rev. William Beauchamp, executive vice-president, was more direct. "He was a legend, that's probably the best way to put it. He was a very special person." 
His pallbearers included current athletic director Dick Rosenthal, Holtz, Parseghian, and basketball coach John MacLeod. 
It is in all these people and others that Edward "Moose" Krause touched during his life­time that his own legacy will live on. In the words of his son, "He fought to the finish line. That's a Notre Dame trait if there ever was one." 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
~UVJ®®~~~ 
PARTY DESnNATIONS 
CANCUN ~om $469 DAYTONA fiorn $109 
BEST PRICE GUARANTEED 1 (800)265-4654 
~~~~~117...... 

T-R A v ELF'-R Fi"E-­
EARN BIG ....ANO FREE TRAVEL Ortraniu A etud.!11t group to ODO Of our holJday Jocatlon•l 
'1 
-
Moose 
continued from page 20 
Looking back at his life, one can see how truthfully Krause's son spoke. 
Although he never played for Rockne, Krause still played as an offensive lineman for the Irish. In the winter, he took his size indoors to play center on the basketball team. 
Krause left Notre Dame after his graduation in 1934 and eventually found himself coach­ing at St. Mary's (Minn.) College and Holy Cross and occasionally 

even playing professional 
basketball.  He returned to the  
university  in  1942  as  an  
assistant  basketball  and  

football coach and Notre Dame became his home. 
One year later, Krause be­came head basketball coach when previous coach, George Keogan, died. After compiling a 98-48 record, he stepped down as head coach in 1951, two years after he became athletic director. 
"Best move I ever made," Krause would explain. "It was time for a change." But there was no need for a change at the 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information "Moose" Krause (right) is inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1976. At left is former NBA commissioner J. Walter Kennedy. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

ppy Birthday, 
John. You're The Last Senior To Turn 21, But They Saved The Best For Last. 
Dad, Mom, Patrick, Michael and Grandma 
The Development 

Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who 
have supported the 
student caller incentive 
program. 
Baskin Robbins 31 lee Cream & Yogurt Hacienda .. Indian Ridge Plaza Lacopo's Pizzeria 
The Observer 

page 18 
No. 2 Michigan falters lat.e against No. 6 Indiana 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) ­Antoine Jones put back a re­bound at the buzzer Tuesday night and Pittsburgh won on the road for the first time this season, 80-78 over No. 15 Connecticut. 
With Pittsburgh playing for the last shot, Chris McNeal took a pass from Jerry McCullough and tried to switch hands and put up a left-handed hook but missed. Jones caught it in the air and put it up without com­ing down. 
Pittburgh (10-2, 3-2 Big East), which lost at Georgetown and St. John's, beat Connecticut (7­3, 2-2) for only the second time in their last meetings. 
McNeal and McCullough each 

_ _ANN AliBOH, Mich. (AP)-It 
was exactly the kind of game 
you'd expect from two Final 
Four teams. 
Indiana's Alan Henderson 

madn what proved to be the 
winning basket and then 
blocked Michigan's final shot as 
the sixth-ranked Hoosiers 
snapped the second-ranked 
Wolverines 11-game winning 
streak with a 76-75 victory 
Tuesday night. 
Henderson, who made the 

garm~'s linal basket on a jumper 
from thn right side with 1:36 
remaining, had 22 points for 
Indiana ( 14-2 overall, 3-0 Big 
Ten). Calbert Cheaney added 20 
for the llousiers. 
.Jalen Hose, who had 19 points 

for Michigan (12-2, 2-1 ), put 
the Wolverines ahead 75-74 
with 2:30 to play. But the 
WolVf~rines never scored again, 
although they had plenty of 
chances. 
-James Voskuil. who had 

eight points for Michigan, drove 
across the lane for a layup that 
was blocknd by Henderson with 
1:13 ll'ft. 
-Rose had a steal and raced the length of the court for an­other layup, but missed it with 43 seconds left. 
-Michigan was forced to foul Todd Leary with 14 seconds left. But bHfore Leary, a 90 per­cent free throw shooter, could take the foul shot, Cheaney left his spot in the lane and the Wolverines were given the ball out of bounds. 
-Ruse brought the ball up­court and flipped it to Voskuil who missed a 3-point try from the left corner. The rebound was tipped by Rose to Chris Webber, who got the ball for one last shot, which was blocked by Henderson just be­fore the horn sounded. 
Webber finished with 18 points. 
The Hoosiers shot 55 percent, holding Mi~higan to 47 percent, and outrebounded the Wolverines 33-31. 
With Juwan Howard scoring !>;x of his 17 points, Michigan had an early 13-4 run for an 18-12lead with 13:llleft in the first half. But for the next 8:40, the Wolverines made only two field goals. 
Shot selection seemed to be a problem for the Wolverines who shot only 38 percent in the first half. Twelve of Michigan's 34 first-half shots were 3-point attempts, but only three went in. 
Henderson had six points and Cheaney scored three straight baskets in the Hoosiers' 24-8 spurt to a 34-26 lead with 3:06 left and Indiana, shooting 53 percent, led 37-31 at halftime. 
scored 19 points for Pitt, while Eric Mobley had 14 points and 11 rebounds and Ahmad Sha­reef had 10 points. 
Brian Fair Jed Connecticut with 19 points, Donny Marshall had 15 points and 11 rebounds, Scott Burrell scored 13 points and Covington Cormier had 10. 
Burrell and Donyell Marshall, the Huskies top two scorers, struggled throughout. Burrell was only 4 for 13 from the field while Marshall was 3 for 10 for 8 points, tying a season-low. 
Pittsburgh opened the second half with a 6-0 run to take a 44­39 lead. Burrell, who had only three points in the first half, hit a 3-pointer and dunked during an 8-2 run as the Huskies took 
Wednesday, January 13,1993 
a 49-48 lead. 
The teams then traded the lead eight times in nine minutes with Burrell tying the score at 73-73 on two free throws with 
3:58 left. 
The Panthers took a five-point lead as McCullough stripped Kevin Ollie at midcourt and then led a 3-on-1 break, feeding Garrick Thomas, who made the layup on a three-point play. 
McNeal then took a pass from Mobley under the basket and made the layup to give the Pan­thers a 78-73 lead with 2:31 left. 
Donny Marshall made two free throws and Fair hit a 3­pointer with 44 seconds left to tie the score. 

Texas A&M acknowledges
-
NCAA rule violations 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (API -Texas A&M acknowl­edged Tuesday that four foot­ball players were paid for work they didn't pnrform last sum­mer at a low-income Dallas housing project. 
"Specifically, we found that two athletes accepted ,Salary payments from Gilbert Pr!)per­ties of Dallas during a period of time in 1992 when they actually were attending summer school," said Hobert Smith, vice 
The Obse1~ver 
is now accepting applica,tions for 
1993--941 
EDITOR~IN~CHIEF 
Any full-time undergraduate at r~otre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and should possess solid communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editing and/or management is helpful. Previous newspaper experience is also helpful, but not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page personal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact 
president for finance and administration. 
"The other two athletes have acknowledged accepting pay­ments from Gilbert Properties for work performed at the Wheatland Terrace Apartment complex in Dallas when in fact they were employed by and working for Priester Supply Company in Arlington." 
Smith is the Texas A&M offi­cial rnsponsible for overseeing athletes' compliance with NCAA regulations. 
A&M suspended the four players on Dec. 26, declaring them ineligible to play in the 1993 Cotton Bowl on Jan. 1 against Notre Dame. 
Thll suspensions and investi­gation were triggered by a Dec. 19 story in The Dallas Morning News that alleged the four re­ceived money from prominent A&M booster Warren Gilbert for maintenance work at apartment sites he owned, but didn't actually do the work. 
Last weekend, the Morning News followed with another story alleging that two of the players, sophomore running back Greg Hill and freshman offensive lineman James Brooks, were on the payroll of two eompanies simultaneously during the summer of 1992 and the between-semester break around Christmas 1991. 
During the same Christmas break, the Aggies were involved in drills leading up to a Cotton Bowl game against Florida State. 
The two other A&M players suspended were freshman of­fensive lineman Darius Smith and freshman receiver Percy Singleton. 
Both companies involved are headed by prominent Texas A&M alumni. 
IN THE ARMY, YOU'LL TAKE CHARGE IN MORE WAYS THAN ONE. 
There's an added dimension to being a nurse in the Army. You'll have increased health care responsibilities. And you'll enjoy the respect and pres­tige that come naturally to people who serve as officers in the Army Nurse Corps. 
You'II be a respected member ofan exceptional health care team. Your opinion and counsel will be actively sought and listened to. And you'll have the opportunity to practice nurs­ing in a variety of environments, from high-tech military hospitals to MASH units, from flight lines to field hospi­tals, in the United States or overseas. 
Here are some of the reasons to consider becoming an Ar!Tiy Nurse: good pay and benefits, opportunities for continuing education in your chosen specialty, seniority that moves with you when you do, and job experi­ence you can't put a price tag on. 
Discover the Army Nurse Corps difference. Talk to an Army Nurse Recruiter today. 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 
Monica Yant at The Observer, 631-4542 . 

-~ ---~-----------~­
Today 

Wednesday, January 13, 1993 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

-
The Observer ... 
... would like to welcome everyone back to campus. We wish all the best of luck in the coming semester. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~frfi 

_f\:1-fit_r( 
An 
~ ~-~ ~ 
& 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Porky, for one 58 Takes 33 Peace Nobelist: 
advantage of 
1 Cuts off, as 1987 59 Aesop specialty branches 34 Secular 60 An 18th-century5 Palmer of "Twin 35 Scotch partner queenPeaks" 36 Loads of fun 61 Hamilton bills 10 Leg part 39 News tidbit 62 Pittsburgh14 Toward the product40Vittlessheltered side 63 Require
41 Church section 

15 March follower 42 Actor Beatty 16 Hawaiian feast 
from Louisville 
DOWN

17 No more than 
43 Avec's opposite 18 Bad thing to 1 Mary's little pet 
44 Certain plastics 

open 2 Butter substitute 
45 G-men 20Women's 3 Ecuadorean 
46-canto

bedrooms neighbor
47 Artemis's

22Sums up 4 Beginning 
brother 23 Play the ponies 5 More meshy 
so Muscovites 24 Earth inheritors &Take­
55 Band with three (disassemble)

25 Chest for original valuables Yardbirds in it 
7 Decorative vases29 Hornet 57 Annoy 8 "Blame It on -,"1984film 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Out-of-doors -:-T'"-r-~ 10 TV's "Beat the 
11 Distinctive quality 12 Night-table item 13Ado 19 Cry 21 Unpleasingly plump 241njures 
26 Emulate Mario Cuomo 27 Canned 
the air 
BILL WATTERSON 
FoR 11\£: TO'N~':> FOLK 
BEL<W-l, TI-lt. \)1\'{ BEGAN LIKE 1\t-ti 011-\ER Dl\'i .
.riJ J 


32-up (fills the 47 Touch, as 
53"The­

tank) tangential 
Tailors," Sayers 

34 Bank offerings circles 
mystery

35 Scrape, as a 48 Sit for a photo knee 49 The yoke's on 54 Coaster 37 Beginnings them 
56 Turn informer 

38 Nabs a crook 43 "... to thine 
Get answers to any three clues 

own-be 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·

true": Shak. 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1202
44Ship 

,_ 
• 

A tragedy occurs off the coast of a land called Honah-Lee. 
DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL 
Today1s Soecial: 
2 I4" I.-Topping Pizzas $10.95 
late night special: 
I Large I.-Topping Pizza $5.95 
(additional toppings 95¢ per pizza) 
Valid at participating scores only. Not valid with any 
Call Now 

other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. OurND 271~0300 drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. SMC 289~0033 © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
MENU Notre Dame 
Grilled Pork Chops Baked Cajun Cod Make-your-own Burrito Bar 

LECTURES 
Wednesday 

4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Search for the Termination Point o the rp-Process," JefTWinger, Michigan State University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Admission Free. Sponsored by the Physics Department. 
-
Sports
page 20 

Wednesday,January 13,1993 
MIKE 

Notre Dame family loses legend 
SCRUDATO 

"Moose" Krause embodied the Notre Da.me spirit
Random Thoughts 

By BRIAN KUBICKI 
1-------------------t 
Sports Writer 
Aggies' demise proves SWC's weakness 

DALLAS -Notre Damn's trouncing of Texas A&M proved what a lot of pnopll~ believed all season-that the Aggies were not worthy of national championship considPration. 
Though the Aggies got through the 
regular season unscathed. th11y did it 
against in what is arguably the weakest 
major conference in college football. 
Just look at tlw slats. In the last three 
Cotton Bowls tlw Southwest Conference 
champion has aVPragnd 2.67 points per 
game. Tlw last SWC team that is still in 
the conference that scored a 
touchdown in the game was Texas 
A&M. which beat Notre Dame in the 
liJHR Classic. Arkansas did score four 
touchdowns in the 19R9 game. but has 
since come to its senses and joined the 
Suutlwastern ConfPrnnee. 

Tlw SWC. onrP the mightiest of them all. has bProme a jokP. Outside of A&M, the Baylor Bears wPn~ the only other SWC team to get a bowl invitation. Though llwy gai11ed some respeet for tlw only one-s tatn con fe rH nee in Division I rollngn football by defeating Arizona in the John Hancock Bowl, A&M lost it llw following day. 
If not for tlmw Irish fumbles thn linal seon1 could have been 49-3. Aggie eoaeh H.C. Slocum said his team was not aeeustomed to getting beaten like that. The only reason for this is that the Ag){ins rarely leave tho Lone Star Stale. This season they only had three games out of staln. and have only two non­Texans on their roster. 
If the Aggies want people to take them seriously, they have to start playing a tougher non-conference schndule and recruiting outside of Texas. This season they played only orw ranked opponent-Stanford. This was in the preseason Disneyland Pigskin Classic. 
Slocum and the A&M hierarchy must put their Lone Star pride aside to do morn than get embarrassed in the Cotton Bowl every year. If the Aggies want to beat teams like Notre Dame they must recruit nationally. I don't care how big or how great Texans think Texas is, a school eannot win a national title with players from only one stal!L 
To honor the late "Moose" Krause, Notre Dame wore "Moose" on their helmets instead of the "Irish" which normally appears above the team's face masks. 
Th1~ Cotton Bowl halftime festivities featured a lot of Texas stuff. such as. cowboys, eowgirls, oil derricks. Miss Texas and Molly O'Neill. 
No don't do a double take, student­body vke-president Molly O'Neill was a part of tlw pageantry. She was there as the Notre Dame Cotton Bowl Queen. 
This amazed me because I don't ever rmnembnr electing her. But, then again queens anm't eleeted they are suppos­edly givnn tht~ir authority by God. 
So. I guess the Lady on the Dome told O'Neill to go to Texas and be Notre Dame's queen. 
Irish hand Texas A&M their only defeat of the season 
BY ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
DALLAS -Proving that an undefeated record is worth as much as the conference it's earned in, Notre Dame throttled previously undefeated Texas A&M 28-3 in the Mobil Cotton Bowl. 
The Irish dominated the Southwest Conference champion Aggies on both sides of the ball. punishing the vaunted A&M defense on the ground, and stopping the Aggie running game cold. 
Texas A&M crossed midfield only three times, and got on the scoreboard only when coach R.C. Slocum, his team trailing 21­0, chose to avoid a shutout with a 41-yard field goal to open the fourth quarter. 
"Obviously, at that point, we had a long haul to get ourselves back-into a position to win the ballgame," said Slocum. "It was not a real tough decision, we simply wanted to get some points on the board for the offense." 
The Irish offense. however, had little trouble putting points on the board. 
Playing their last game in Notre Dame uniforms, the Irish 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:. back fie Id shared a glorious s t a tis tical day in Dallas. Earning 

Amidst the bustle and intensity of exam week. Notre Dame paused to say goodbye to one of her favorite sons. Edward "Moose" Krause, longtime ath­letic director died in his sleep during the morning of December 11 at the age of 79. 
Krause's relationship with Notre Dame began when he was recruited by Knute Rockne and came from Chicago to the campus in 1930. It did not end until his death. Krause kept a working office as a goodwill ambassador for the university in the JACC even after his 1980 retirement. 
"lie never stopped playing with all his heart and all his bulk," said the Rev. Edward C. Krause, Jr. who celebrated the funeral mass with other priests. 
see MOOSE/page 1 7 

Notre Dame hammers Texas ~~&M, 28-3 

Complete domination marks Cotton Bowl triumph 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

DALLAS -Texas A&M entered the Cotton Bowl with what was considered one of the country's best defenses, but the Irish showed that the Aggies were not even the best defense in the stadium. 
Notre Dame amassed 439 yards of total offense, while the Irish defense shut down the Aggie attack all afternoon. 
"I can't say enough about the offense," Irish coach Lou Holtz said after the game. "This is the most prolific offense I've ever been around." 
The Irish used the ball-control style they have shown throughout their season-ending seven-game winning streak. Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bettis spearheaded the ground game, and the offensive line dominated the trenches. 
Running through big holes for most of the afternoon. the "Thunder and Lightning" backfield combined for 190 yards rushing. 
But the Most Outstanding Offensive Player honors went the Rick Mirer. The senior quarterback threw for 119 yards and two touchdowns and rushed for 55 yards on 13 carries. 
"He deserved it," commented Bettis, who scored three touch­downs. "lie really led us through. I don't think we could have been stopped on offense today. 
"We weren't going to change our game plan one bit to suit A&M. We had a great offensive line that did the job." he added. The Aggies were overwhelmed with the speed and strength of the Irish offensive line. "Their line was fast. It is the best I've seen," A&M linebaeker Jason Atkinson said. "They dominated our defensive line and continually knocked us off the ball," Aggie coach R.C. Slocum noted. "We're not 
see IRISH/page 15 

INSIDE SPORTS 
•Bettis, Carter enter NFL draft 
see page 17 
IIHockey finding success 
see page t8 
•ndlana escapes with one point ·····•·•····. 
wln ···•·•·•··· see paget8 
o!Tensive MVP honors, quarterback Rick Mirer threw for 119 yards and two touchdowns, while rushing for 55 yards on B carries. Junior fullback Jerome Bettis scored three touchdowns, while tailback Reggie Brooks, after a sloppy start, ran for 115 yards. 
Indeed, the entire Irish offense looked sloppy for much of the first half. 
On its game-opening drive, Notre Dame drove 62 yards over six minutes, only to fumble the ball away at the A&M 18-yard line. 
see COTTON/page 15 




