The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 98 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton outlines plans to boost high-tech jobs 
EVERETT, Wash. (AP) -highways" with the government President Clinton outlined a helping projects linking plan Monday to use tax breaks computers into a "national in­and money from scaled-back formation infrastructure." defense spending to help create The initiative earmarks at more high-technology jobs as least $550 million in the cur­he toured California's Silicon rent fiscal year -and larger Valley and visited the finan­sums down the road -to focus cially troubled Boeing Co. government attention and as­
Speaking in an enormous sistance on high-tech, non-de­aircraft assembly hangar, fense programs, particularly in Clinton blasted European air­environmental technology, craft subsidies for hurting U.S. communications, computers airlines and promised "tough and education. new discipline" to respond to It brought immediate scorn them in the future. from Senate Republican Leader 
But, Clinton told Boeing em­Bob Dole of Kansas. ployees: "I can't promise you "The taxing Clinton-Gore overnight miracles. We didn't administration is determined to get into this fix overnight." make defense its sacrificial 
Boeing last week announced it lamb," Dole said in a statement was eliminating 27,000 jobs by in Washington. mid-1994. Dole said that while promising 
The Observer/Andrea Fisk 

Snowed in 
Clinton sought to focus atten­defense workers high-wage, 
tion at both West Coast stops on high-skill jobs, Clinton "is also 

The recent snowfall has rendered many students' bicycles useless. Much more snow is expected today in 
a new technology package going all out to toss those very 

South Bend as winter truly hits the campus. 
drawing together many ele­same workers on the ments he proposed during the unemployment line, whether campaign and in last week's they are defense workers in 

Loretto renovation reactions mixed economic package. Aides said California, or airplane workers the package would cost $17 bil­in Washington and Kansas." By PATRICE MILLER "When I was little I went lion to $20 billion over the next News Writer there for Easter mass with my 

Renovation 

four years. Among the major components family, and was always in awe 
Renovations of the Church of

Among the proposals is one of Clinton's plan: with the beauty of the church," 
Our Lady of Loretto have 


discussed

new item: the government will •Permanent extension of the said Lisa Fortman, a Saint 
evoked strong feelings among

work with the auto industry to tax credit given businesses ex­Mary's sophomore. "When I 
the Saint Mary's student body

explore new technologies to try ploring new technological ad­found out that they were going 

by BOG
this year, and student reactions 

to develop a "clean car" that vances -at a cost to the Trea­to destroy some of that beauty,
to the changes are now mixed

does not pollute. sury of $6.4 billion over four I was deeply saddened." By PATRICE MILLER 
as the unveiling and dedication

White House science adviser years. Sophomore Kathleen Braun News Writer 
nears.

Jack Gibbons said some federal •Government support of de­said the church's former design 
The church was renovated 

money would go into the clean velopment of new computer inspired prayer, and that the The dedication of the Church 
not only to accommodate the 

car effort, but how much was and communications technol­new developments are too 
of Loretto this Saturday was
physically challenged but also

not yet known. ogy, such as fiber optics. modern. 
among several issues discussed 
to provide a more inviting

"Change is the way to make •An increase in money for "(With the old design) I felt 
at the Board of Governance
worship setting for the 

money, not throw people out of national laboratories -by $4 7 that my prayers were going meeting (BOG) last night. The
community, according to a

work," Clinton said as he and million this year and $146 mil­straight to heaven," she said. "I ceremony, which coincides with 
pamphlet produced by the

Vice President A1 Gore toured a lion in the next four years -to think what they are doing parents weekend, will begin at
Sisters of the Holy Cross

high-tech graphics plant in focus on civilian projects in­represents the new age ideas 
9:45 a.m. in the Augusta
congregation.

Mountain View, Calif.. near San stead of defense ones. that are filtering into the Chapel and proceed to Loretto
Past difficulties in hearing,

Jose, and announced the policy. •A four-year, $272 million in­church today." 
at 10 a.m.
seeing, and moving throughout 

At the California stop, Gore crease in money for the Envi­Julie Jedlinski said, "I Ash Wednesday is this week
the church have been

said the nation must "invest in ronmental Protection Agency thought that the church was and BOG announced that dis­
eliminated and new lighting,

a new kind of infrastructure," for private-industry develop­already beautiful. Since the 
tribution of ashes will take
heating, and ventilation

broadening the term beyond ment of environmental tech­church was already nice, the place in the Regina and Au-
systems were installed. These

just roads, bridges and such. nology. money should have been spent 
gusta Chapels. The
changes were implemented

He said the Clinton plan envi­•Federal grants to industry­elsewhere in the community 
distribution of ashes,
despite the fact that many

sions "the rapid completion of a led research projects among where it was needed." 
students liked the church the


network of information super groups of companies. 
way it was. 

The Observer/Andrea Fisk 
Opening night draws near 
Cast members of The Heidi Chronicles wrap up their final rehearsals. The production will be presented Feb. 24-28. Tickets are available at LaFortune. 

see LORETTO I page 4 see BOG I page 4 
U.N. to set up war crime tribunal for Balkans 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The Security Council moved Monday • Yugoslavia I page 6 to create an international war crimes tribunal to punish those steadily moving away from the responsible for mass killings, Cold War-era view that human torture and rape in former rights are a country's internal Yugoslavia. affairs. 
Diplomats hoped their unan­There was plenty of skepti­imous vote approving the court cism Monday night that the IS­would deter the warring sides nation council's vote to estab­from further atrocities. But lish a tribunal would stop war United Nations efforts so far to crimes. stop "ethnic cleansing" cam­"We should not kid ourselves paigns have fallen on deaf ears, that war criminals are going to and there was no assurance be deterred by just the estab­Monday's effort would be more lishment of a tribunal," successful. Muhamed Sacirbey, Bosnia's 
The council's decision to cre­U.N. ambassador, told re­ate the first international war porters. crimes tribunals since World While the Security Council War II further deepened its in­worked to end war crimes, the volvement in human rights. In United States was preparing to Yugoslavia, Somalia and Kur­airdrop supplies into eastern distan, the council has been see U.N. I page 4 
• 


page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Finding that New York State of Mind 
Born and raised in New York City, I am constantly astounded by the feelings many Notre Dame students have towards America's 
metropolitan areas. It -------­
is a rare day indeed John Connorton when someone strays Business Editor from the usual reaction, "I'd love to-------­
visit New York," almost always followed by "but 
I'd hate to live there," when they find out I live 
in Manhattan. 
There seem to be two prevailing sentiments 
people have towards New York City. Most 
people regard New York as an exotic and 
exciting plaee to escape from the drudgery of 
mall culture for a day or night or two before 
raeing to the safety of the suburbs. Some may 
even think the United States would be better off 
if New York City would only collapse under the 
unbearable weight of crime, poverty. welfare, 
every bogeyman vilified by the Republican Party 
for the past twelve years. 
I am not sure which is more resentful, the suburbanite who sees New York as exciting and beneficial, but refuses with righteous indignation to help bear the costly burden for its maintenance, or the country bumpkin who eagerly waits God's vengeance on America's Sodom and Gomorrah. 
Thanks to twelve years of Republican neglect, a neglect pursued with a malice unbecoming the supposed standard bearers of Christian America, New York City teeters on the point of no-return. Honald Reagan's decision to cut social programs had a devastating impact on New York City. I would not hesitate to guess that a significant portion of New York City's homeless population is composed of the out-of­state mentally-ill who gravitated towards the City for survival after Heagan's cutbacks left them without treatment or homes. 
Heagan's social cutbacks, enthusiastically supported by millions of Americans, is indicative of the callous disregard suburban and country dwellers have for our nation's cities. They expect New York City to be safe, clean. and friendly, but refuse to help finance programs that would make the City such a place. 
This metropolis, the gateway to America for millions, is now beset by nearly every problem that plagues this country. However, as indicated by the number of tourists who travel to New York City with the same excitement and intensity as Christian pilgrims traveling to Canterbury, New York City has much more to offer than a modern list of the Seven Deadly Sins. 
Some of my city-dwelling friends want me to use this column to to tell all the Skoal-dipping, rebel-flag waving, gun-rack toting, Mississippi River Pirates listening, Deliverance loving hillbillies who consistently rack on New York to stay the hell up in the mountains. but that would mean bowing to the same stereo-types that such people perpetrate on us urban-types. 
I will not deny Middle or Suburban America its place. I respect and value their tradition, at times more than I do the culture of New York, but I feel it is high time for those who enjoy the benefits of the city to ante up when it is at the cross-roads. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Fjghtjng jn Somalia "most serjous" 
• MOGADISHU. Somalia-Fighting between rival factions today killed at least seven Somalis in the southern port of Kismayu, and gunmen shot and killed an Irish nurse in a roadside ambush near the capital, military officials said. The Kismayu fighting was the most serious in Somalia in weeks. It came a day before U.S. forces were to transfer command of the security operation in Kismayu to Belgian troops and start to head home. The transfer of command, scheduled for Tuesday, and the departure of the U.S. troops were postponed. Several other relief workers have been killed in Somalia despite the presence of more than 30,000 foreign troops. The U.S.-led military coalition in Somalia is expected to shift to United Nations command within two months, with most of the remaining 15,000 American troops heading home. Belief workers have expressed concern that security would deteriorate after the Americans leave. 
NATIONAL Letterman sta 
le 

• NEW YORK-David Letterman has decided he'll move five blocks to Broadway's Ed Sullivan Theater instead of 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Iceberg Debate Finals will be tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Breen-Phillips and Sorin will be competing. 

• 
Sophomore Literary Festival presents an informal question and answer session today at noon with novelist Tim O'Brien in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. All are welcome. 

• 
Student Poetry Forum presented by the English Major's Society tonight from 8-10 p.m. in the CSC Coffee House. Come to read or to hear the poetry of the Notre Dame community. Writers are asked to bring ten copies of each poem and to limit their readings to two works. All are welcome. 

• 
Nieuwland Lectures in Biological Sciences presents its opening lecture "Inheritance of DNA: 40 Years after the Double Helix," by Dr. Bruce W. Stillman tonight at 8 


p.m. in room 283 Galvin Life Science Auditorium. Stillman is assistant director of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in Cold Spring Harbor, New York. 
3,000 miles to the other coast when his late-night show switches from NBC to CBS. The now-faded showplace's architectural features will be restored and its electronic gadgetry second to none by the time Letterman's CBS series premieres in August. CBS is paying about $4 million for the building, plus several million more for restoration and upgrading. ministration. In a statement Monday, Let­terman said, "It's great to be back on Broadway." His experience on the thoroughfare is primarily as a pedestrian. 
CAMPUS 

Student wins ethnic scholarship 
• NOTRE DAME-Tina Buchanan, a political science major from Saint Mary's, was named the winner of the Ethnic Minority Scholarship. Tina has been involved in Sisters of Neferiti, Women's Alliance, College Democrats, Pre-Law Society and has held the position of ethnic diversity commissioner on the Board of Governance. According to Buchana. the differences people see in each other causes them to learn more about themselves. "I strongly believe that anytime people can come together to exchange and share ideas, a valuable experience can be had by all," Buchanan said. 
• 
Get Published and submit scholarly essays from the College of Arts and Letters to the journal "Humanitas." Send to "Humanitas," English department, 350 O'Shag. Deadline is February 25. 

• 
Ash Wednesday Masses at the Basilica will be celebrated at 11:30 a.m. by Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C. and 5 p.m. by Hev. Hichard V. Warner, C.S.C with the Sa­cred Music of the Notre Dame Folk Choir. Also refer to the residence hall liturgy schedule for masses in the dorm chapels. 

• 
LULAC will hold an organizational meeting tonight at 7 p.m in the Old Club Hoom of LaFortune to discuss year end plans and to elect new officers. Refreshments will be provided. 

• 
Relationships Seminar: "Breaking Up Is Hard to Do: When Relationships End," by Kimberly Hilton and Jamie Davidson of Notre Dame Counseling Center. The seminar is tonight at 7 p.m. in room 300 of the University Counseling Center, Health Services Building. 


Today's  Staff:  
News Alicia Reale Katie Murphy  Business Susan Marx  
Production Kira Hutchinson Kim Massman Systems Harry Zembillas  Graphics Chris Mullins Sports Jim Vogl  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 22 
. 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 394,042,030 +0.25 to 239.52 S&P COMPOSITE 

+ 1.02 to 435.24 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+20.81 to 3,342.99
UNCHANGED 473 
GOLD 
-$0.59 to $330.00 /oz 
SILVER 
-$0.049 to $3.673/oz 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1836: The siege of the Alamo began in San Antonio, Texas. 

• 
In 1927: President Coolidge signed a bill creating the Federal Radio Commission, forerunner of the Federal Communications Commission. 

• 
In 1945: U.S. Marines on lwo Jima raised the American 


flag atop Mount Suribachi in a scene captured on film by Associated Press photographer Joe Rosenthal. 
• 
In 1954: The first mass inoculation of children against polio with the Salk vaccine began in Pittsburgh. 

• 
In 1992: In Moscow, thousands of pro-communist demonstrators clashed with police. 



-
Tuesday, February 23, 1993 The Observer 
Clinton plan bonds Republicans 
WASHINGTON (AP) -When George Bush left the White House, congressional Republi­cans were left to battle Presi­dent Clinton with minorities in both houses and no unifying national leader outside the CapitoL But Clinton's economic plan is giving them some help -a rallying cry. 
"I think one thing that Clinton has done, he's united the Republican Party and we haven't been united on this is­sue for quite a while," Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of · Kansas said Sunday. 
Since Election Day, Dole and other Republican leaders have been scrambling to make up for a loss far bigger than the veto pen Bush used to keep the Democratic-controlled Congress at bay. 
They lost their political big stick. They lost their big fundraising draw. They lost critical intellectual resources needed to battle the majority Democrats when thousands of GOP political aides left their government jobs. 
"We're getting adjusted to a huge void in our lives," said Rep. Henry Hyde, R-IlL "We've lost our security blanket and we're very much on our own." 
The strains were apparent when Clinton released his eco­nomic plan last week. The op­position party looked disorga­nized. 
Some Republicans promised war, others cooperation, and Clinton's challenge to his critics to offer a serious alternative has so far gone unanswered. 
But there was a silver lining. Republicans in Congress and elsewhere are struggling with internal party differences over social issues. Moderates are trying to shed the party's ve­hement anti-abortion stand, while conservatives say it is the key to maintaining the Reagan coalition. 
When Congress a few weeks ago voted to guarantee unpaid leave for family emergencies, 16 of 41 Senate Republicans and 40 of 17 4 House Republi­cans sided with the Democrats and voted for the bill. 
But with his tax proposals, Clinton gave the Republicans an issue where their big fight was with the Democrats, not each other. 
United Republicans can't pass bills on their own, but they can force Democrats to make tough votes they didn't face before. 
•
vI s I 0 N s 0 F PA R I s • • 
Summer Programs 1993 lntersession : May 24-June 11 
•
Summer Session :June 14-July 23 
• 
More than 50 regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum. 

• 
A three-week French-language Immersion program, featuring cultural walking tours and conversation classes. 

• 
Weekend excursions : Normandy, Champagne, Loire Valley chateaux, Burgundy,Giverny and Chartres. 

• 
Seminar tours with the University of Texas, the University of New Hampshire and the University of california at Berkeley. 


Also, two new French Immersion Sessions: 
• Summer '94 in Biarritz • Winter '94 in Paris Send for our 1993 Summer Programs Brochure : The American University of Paris Summer Programs I U.S. Office 80 East 11th Street, Suite 434 
New York, New York 10003 12)677-4870 -Fax 1212)4 
*Board Manager 
*Director of Programming 
*Director of Relations 
*Director of Marketing 
*Controller 
Programming Positions 
*AnTostal Chairman *Campus Entertainment Co-Commissioner *Collegiate Jazz Festival Chairman *CUltural Arts Co-Commissioner *Ideas & Issues Co-Commissioner *Movies CO-Commissioner *Music Entertainment Co-Commissioner *Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman *Special Events Co-Commissioner 
Marketing Positions 
*Senior Account Executive 
*Account Executive *Artist 
~~ *Marketing Research Commissioner 
~ Relations Positions 
*Internal Relations Commissioner *External Relations Commissioner 
*Office Manager 
Assistant Controller 
page3 


The Observer/Andrea Fisk 

Poise, posture and a smile 
Karen DuBay helps Gina Leggio prepare to audition to be a model in the B.P. Spring Fashion Show. Both are sophomores in B.P. 
U.S. visit to Beirut a milestone for Lebanon 
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) ­Secretary of State Warren Christopher's brief foray into Beirut on Monday was a mile­stone in Lebanon's quest to shed the image of terrorism and anarchy that marked its 15-year civil war. 
Nevertheless, a muscular phalanx of guards accompanied Christopher's visit. 
About the time of his arrival in the capital, artillery exchanges in south Lebanon between Israel's militia allies and pro-Iranian guerrillas killed a U.N. peacekeeper and a villager, and wounded another peacekeeper and civilian. 
Christopher's visit was re­stricted to the walled, heavily guarded Defense Ministry compound on a hill overlooking Beirut in the southeastern sub­urb of Yarze. 
Christopher's party arrived in three helicopters from Larnaca, Cyprus. Reporters and photographers were kept half a mile away from the helipad as Christopher emerged. 

He immediately climbed into into Ambassador Ryan Crocker's machine gun­equipped, bulletproof Chevrolet Blazer. which whisked him 700 yards to the ministry's confer­ence halL 
Hundreds of Lebanese troops toting assault rifles and shoul­der-fired, armor-piercing rockets guarded all roads leading to the compound. Sharpshooters manned rooftops. 
Dozens of tow trucks hastily removed all cars within a three-mile radius of the min­istry. Soldiers who normally park inside the premises were asked to drive their cars away. 
A senior army officer, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said the fact that the Lebanese army was entrusted with Christopher's security showed the government was regaining control over the country. 
Foreign Minister Faris Bweiz called the visit "testimony to Lebanon's stability." 

THE AMERICAN RED CROSS Make a difference: Make a contribution 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery 
271.,1177 

-~~---~ --­
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1993 
Official replaced after Yeltsin comment 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The official responsible for aid to the former Soviet Union is being replaced aftHr angering his su­periors by predicting the ouster of Hussian President Boris Yeltsin. 
In announcing the replace­ment of Hichard Armitage as humanitarian aid coordinator Monday, State Department spokesman Joseph Snyder said the decision was unrelated to the remarks Armitage made last week during an appearance in Nashville. He also said Armitage's comments do ·not reflect Clinton administration views. 
Snyder said the administration has been working for a month to find a replacement for Armitage, a Bush adminis­tration holdover. 
Named to replace him was the current U.S. ambassador to Poland, Thomas Simons, a former director of the Office of Soviet Affairs at the State De­partment and a deputy assis­tant secretary with responsibil­ity for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. 
Armitage's remarks were reported Saturday by The As­sociated Press and generated expressions of outrage from Ambassador-at-large Strobe Talbott, who is a special adviser on Hussia and the other former Soviet republics. 
In remarks last Tuesday to the Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies in Nashville, 


SECURITY BEAT 
Loretto 
continued from page 1 
However, not all students opposed the church's renovations. 
Melissa Whelan, Spiritual Life commissioner of the Student Activities Board, said "At first I was very much opposed to the renovatiOiis, -but I think that they did a wonderful job and the renovation was for the best." 

"I think that the decor of the place does not matter," agreed junior Jennifer Moore. "It's the Eucharist that matters most during mass." 
The Observer/Andrea Fisk 

The weather takes its toll 
Pangborn freshman Jenni de Los Reyes wipes the snow off her car in the D-6 lot during yesterday afternoon's snowstorm. 
The Observer 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
accompanied by the Eucharist, will occur at 7 a.m. and 4:45 
p.m. 
in Augusta and at 12:20 

p.m. 
in Hegina. The distribution of ashes alone will be held at 9:30 a.m. in Augusta and at 6 and 9 p.m. in Hegina. 


Saint Mary's was also recently 
U.N. 
continued from page 1 
Bosnia, which convoys have had trouble reaching. 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali discussed the plan with his aides on Monday and was expected to go over it at the White House on Tuesday with President Clinton. 
The establishment of the court itself and its rules for operation are months away. Nonetheless, said French ambassador Jean­Bernard Merimee, war criminals now are on notice "they will be held responsible for their acts." 



Come see World Champion Pool Player 
Nick Varner 
on Februarv 24th as he plays against Notre Dame's Campus Champion 
in the Ballroom at 8:00p.m. 
Admission is free and popcorn will be served! ! ! 
Sponsored by Student Activities. 
Notre Dame presents 
A serious cm:utv ~'~~., • ..,,, ..  
Washington Hall  
able Wednesday,  
at the LaFortune  
call: 631-8128.  


Armitage predicted the early ouster of Yeltsin because he is "just about at the end of his usefulness." 
In response to a question, Armitage called Yeltsin a man of "enormous personal courage" but added that he lacks a "grand vision" and the ability to work well with Hus­sia's recalcitrant legislative branch. 
"Not unlike (former Soviet President Mikhail) Gorbachev, his days are somewhat num­bered," Armitage said. Yeltsin's term does not expire until 1996. Such speculation by a senior 
U.S. official about a key foreign leader is extremely rare, and Armitage admitted later to be­ing "injudicious." 
recognized as a member of the Model United Nations which will be holding their conference in New York this year. 
The final survey regarding the smoking policy for the resi­dence halls will be conducted on Tuesday, March 2. The sur­vey will also include a question regarding cable in the lobbies of the residence halls. These surveys will be tallied and then the results will be reviewed. 
The resolution also gives a boost to international mediators Cyrus Vance and Lord Owen, who have been pressing for creation of the court and who could use it to further pressure the warring parties in peace talks that resume this week. 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Please submit a two-page personal statement of intent and a resume to Meredith McCollough by 5 p.m., Monday, February 22, 19~3. For questions about any of the positions, call Meredith at 631-5323. 
~-----------------------------------------------·--~ ---­
Tuesday, February 23, 1993 The Observer 
Pryor: Billions could be saved on outside contracts 

WASHINGTON (AP) --The government could save billions of dollars with tighter account­ing of what it pays outsiders for specialized work like Pentagon audits and toxic waste cleanups, a Senate subcommit­tee chairman says. 
Federal expenditures for service contracts doubled in the last decade, from $45 billion to $90 billion in the 1991 fiscal year. President Clinton could cut that by 20 percent simply by eliminating contracts that aren't needed, said Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark. 
Despite the Reagan and Bush administrations' zeal for cutting the government work force, "the dependency on contractors and consultants grew at an enormous speed," said Pryor, chairman of the Government Affairs subcommittee on federal service. 
The government contracts out a whole array of activities, ranging from guarding public buildings to helping Environ­mental Protection Agency draft regulations for compliance with anti-pollution laws. 
Pryor, in an interview, said that Clinton's effort to cut the federal government's adminis­trative expenses by 14 percent by 1997 should focus on the fees paid to private contractors. 
"I think the president prob­ably does not realize the enor­mity or the pervasiveness of consultants and contractors," Pryor said. -"I don't think he now realizes it's billions of dol­lars." 
For example, the Social Se­

curity Administration pays pri­vate companies to maintain its elaborate computer record sys­tems. The Health Care Finance Administration pays private in­surance companies to adminis­ter Medicare. 
Much work once performed by government employees, cleaning public buildings, mowing lawns or running cafe­terias, is now done by private firms under contract. 
In many such cases, budget planners have argued, the government saves money. 
ASPEN, Colo. (AP) Searchers set out on snowmo­biles and skis in an area of ex­treme avalanche danger Mon­day to find five cross-country skiers missing for three days in mountain back country. 
Authorities hoped the five were sheltered from zero-de­gree temperatures in a hut in Taylor Pass, about 15 miles south of Aspen. An avalanche thundered down a mountain­side in that area Saturday. 
"It's a very pessimistic outlook if they didn't reach a hut," said Debbie Kendrick of the Pitkin County sheriff's office. "But these are people who have done some backwoods stuff before and have some knowledge, so we're hopeful in that light." 


Seven to 10 people went out on the back side of Aspen Mountain on snowmobiles, cross-country skis and Snow­cats, the wide-tracked utility vehicles used at ski areas, sh­
eriff's Deputy Joe DiSalvo said. 
"It's real tough going and in 
They will have to cover nine to 
an area where there is some 
11 miles in snow drifts up to 5 
extreme avalanche danger.
feet deep. 
They need to be as safe as they can," he said. 
The missing skiers left the Ashcroft Ski Touring Resort on Friday, camped overnight and were to have returned Satur­
The Observer 
day. Two other people with 
AccENT DEPARTMENT 


is now accepting applications for the following positions: 

Applications for Senior Formal Co-Chairperson 
Assistant Accent Editors 

are now available at the Junior Class Office (2nd
Accent Copy Editors 

floor of LaFortune).
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Kenya Johnson by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kenya at 631-4540 for more information about either position. 

Applications are due March 1, 1993. 

them returned safely by a dif­ferent route. 
Aircraft were able to join the search for only about 1 1/2 hours Monday because of clouds, DiSalvo said. 
Temperatures hovered around zero during the night. 
"If they got to a hut, there's firewood and a fireplace and they could stay up there four days and virtually be fine," DiSalvo said. "If they made a snow cave, the survivability rate is good. If they're out in the elements, I don't know. It's hard to tell." 
The skiers were identified as Brigetta Schlugar, Dee and Rob Dubin, all from Denver; Ken Torp, of Conifer; and Elliott Brown of Golden. 
"We're optimistic," said Don 
page 5 
ents cope with aftermath of racial unrest 

GARY, Ind. (AP) --Students and faculty at Calumet High School were treated Monday to a welcome reprieve from the racial unrest that has gripped the school all month. 
Several fights among stu­dents, most of them black and Hispanic, forced the school to close for a day and a half two weeks ago, and an assembly was cancelled Friday when rumors of more violence spread through the school. 
"It'll take some time," Prin­cipal Leroy Miller said Monday. "But each day we have a peaceful day is a step in the right direction." 
Friday's assembly would have brought the school's 800 students together in a forum to help salve the racial divisions. Three community leaders -­one white, one black and one Hispanic --were to address the gathering. 
"We were hearing rumors that something negative was going to happen," Miller said, declining to be specific. "We'd have had a packed house, and if something did happen the potential for serious problems would certainly be there. 
"We didn't want to take any chances." 
About 7 5 percent of Calumet's students are white, about 15 percent are black and about 10 percent are Hispanic. 
Four armed, off-duty Lake County police officers have been at the school each day since it reopened Feb. 16. It was the first time security ever was needed at the school, Miller said. 
Students were sent home early Feb. 10 when numerous disturbances broke out. School was cancelled Feb. 11, the day before a four-day holiday weekend. The problems are be­lieved to be related to gang ac­tivity outside school, Miller said. 

Freshman Orientation General Committee 
Applications are now available from Student Government Forms should be returned by Friday, February 26 Interviews will be conducted on Saturday, 2/2 7 and Sunday, 2/28 
If you have any questions or would like more information, please call Student Government at 631 ~ 7668, or stop by 203 LaFortune 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, February 23, 1993 
Sarajevo food distribution resumes 
GODE, Ethiopia (AP) -From the air, the landscape tells the story. After endless miles of pale orange, the color of hunger, the desert turns an abrupt green, a hint of hope. 
Thousands of acres of corn flourishing in the Ogaden Desert carry a message: Food has a future in the heart of famine country. 
"These people are pioneers," Assegid Kibret, agronomist in charge, said of the ex-refugees being resettled beside the silty Shebelle River in eastern Ethiopia. 
Pioneers, and now happy corn farmers. 
"The last drought killed all our animals," said a young livestock herder named Fahima Farrah, as she took a break from cleaning an irrigation ditch. "We thank God we can be farmers now, and grow crops on our own land." 
But the big picture in Ethiopia -eight years after its killer famine, one year after its latest drought -is more complex, 
and less hopeful, than the 
desert snapshot. 
A transitional regime that took over from the toppled Marxist government in 1991 is instituting free-market policies meant to encourage agricul­tural production. 
They may be working. Ethiopia's latest grain harvest was its biggest ever. 
But this ancient nation's tired soil still cannot keep up. Ethiopia will fall short by hun­dreds of thousands of tons of grain in 1993. Emergency food will still be needed. 
Gray columns of production statistics spell it out: On a per capita basis, Ethiopia is slipping ever farther behind, producing 10 percent less grain per per­son today than it did in the early 1980s. The national popu­lation leaped from 42 million in 1984, the height of the famine, to an estimated 52 million. 
"It's certain we're going to have another major famine," said Peter L. Simkin, the U.N. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following Saint Mary's positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jennifer Habrych by 5 p.m., Thursday, February 25, 1993. Applications can be dropped off at either the Notre Dame Observer office or the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more information about any of the positions, call Jennifer at 631-5303 or 284-4312. 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­
govina (AP) -City leaders 
agreed on Monday to resume 
food distribution to hungry 
Sarajevo residents, and aircraft 
packed with relief aid once 
again touched down at the 
Bosnian capital. 

Alija Izetbegovic, chief of 
Bosnia's seven-member presi­
dency, meanwhile prepared to 
take his case to Washington. 
Presidency member Mirko Pe­
janovic said Izetbegovic would 
accept an invitation from Presi­
dent Clinton, who has commit­
ted the United States to a role in 
ending the Bosnian war. 

As part of its expanded role, 
the United States weighed the 
advisability on Monday of drop­
ping supplies from the air into 
regions cut off by fighting. 

Tanjug, the offici.i!l news 
agency of Serbian-dominated 
Yug9slavia, said the Clinton 
administration reached an early 
decision to go ahead and had so 
informed the government of 
Yugoslavia by late Monday. 
Tanjug cited "well-informed 
diplomatic sources." 

But Clinton himself later said 
in Seattle, when asked about air 
Development Program repre­sentative in Addis Ababa, the capital. "We'll have famine after famine until we can bal­ance food production with pop­ulation growth." 
This Africa veteran sees a lone reassuring sign for the next crisis: "At least now there's a good emergency infrastructure in place." 
One outpost of that infras­tructure, a camp of tiny huts sheltering more than 30,000 refugees, sprawls over the desert here, across the Shebelle from the Gode farm project. 
Hurry!
Only 1 House Left 
·4 Bedroom ·Security System ·Fully Furnished 
287-4989 

Laurie McKelvey 
$100 off 
first months rent with this ad 

drops: "We're still consulting. We'll finish pretty soon." 
Such an effort would be the first direct involvement in Bosnia by U.S. forces and would put American planes at risk of being shot down. Tanjug said 
U.S. cargo planes escorted by Navy warplanes would drop the aid. 
A cease-fire appeared to be holding around Sarajevo Mon­day, but both sides reported conflict in eastern Bosnia. The Serbs accu.sed Muslim-led gov­ernment troops of ignoring the unilateral truce declared Satur­day by Izetbegovic. The Mus­lims said Serbs were on the of­fensive. 
Izetbegovic was expected in Washington Tuesday, before Bosnian peace talks resume at 
U.N. headquarters in New York. 
Clinton and U.N. Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali are to meet Tuesday and will discuss Bosnia. 
"We want to present our wishes and plans to ... Mr. Clin­ton," Pejanovic told Bosnian radio. 
He said to be acceptable to 
Bosnia, a peace plan would have to guarantee: 
•effective 
control of heavy artillery, in which Serbs have the advantage 

•repatriation 
of refugees 

•international 
monitoring of human rights in Bosnia. 


At U.N. headquarters in New York, the Security Council moved to punish those guilty of atrocities during the 11-month­old war. It said it would set up the first international war crimes tribunals since World War II. 
Ambassador Muhamed Sac­ribey of Bosnia was skeptical, saying war criminals would not be deterred "by just the estab­lishment of the tribunal." 
Civil war began in Bosnia last year after the majority Muslims and Croats opted for indepen­dence from Yugoslavia. Ethnic Serbs rebelled, and were ini­tially aided by the Serb-led Yu­goslav federal army. 
A Bosnian radio journalist reporting from Brcko, eastern Bosnia, on Monday said Serb tank rounds hitting the town and environs left the area in "ruins, fire and smoke." 

50TH ANNIVERSARY 
THE SHOW CELEBRATION YOU REMEMBER! 
OPENS THURSDAY! 
Musical Direction by NANCY MENK Choreography by INDI DIECKGRAFE Set & Lighting Design by SHAUN L. WELLEN 

Rodgers~, Costumes by Hammerstem s SYDNEY WELLEN 
OKLAHOMA! 
Ttusday · Saklrday 

RICHA~~i~~OGERS FEBRUARY~~~7,8:00 P.M. 
Book and Lyrics by FEBRUARY 28, 2:30P.M. oscAR
HAMMERSTEIN OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
Based on me plaY TICKETS: $5 Green Grow the uacs (SM'S·ND community with valid i.d.) by Lym R9.Js Available at the Saint Mary's Box Office ~~~5~;:~ O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.L _ _;_:..------Charge Orders and Information: 284-4626 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION 
All active members interested in running for IT~@ ®illffi®® must arrange a meeting by Thursday, February 25 with Jeremy (x1770) 

·-----­

Business 
Tuesday, February 23, 1993 page 7 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 
China oasses stringent protection laws · 
•BEIJING-China's legislature passed a consumer protection law Monday that allows the death penalty for makers of fake medicines or products that cause deaths, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. One of the side effects of China's industrial boom the past decade has been a proliferation of tiny factories that have not been forced to meet quality standards. Some copy the packaging of brand-name goods. The most serious problem has been caused by bogus medicines. But newspapers also have reported on faulty water heaters that have electrocuted bathers, cosmetics that caused burns and crop-killing fertilizers. The new law that takes effect Sept. 1 links penalties to the damage caused by the product and the amount of profit made by the manufacturer. 
Labor;:Mrouo criticizes corporate lay-offs 
•WAS NGTON-A labor watchdog group today called for stronger enforcement of a federal law requiring companies to notify workers before closing plants, saying some corporate giants are flagrantly violating it. The Federation for Industrial Retention and Renewal released its third annual "dirty dozen" list. today, saying many of the 12 companies on it, including General Motors and McDonnell Douglas, are needlessly hurting workers and their communities. A growing number of companies also are leaving the newly unemployed witho~t severanc~ pay•. hea~th insurance or help in learning new skills, federation Executtve Director Jim Benn said in a written statement. 
SW,'reme Court rules in favor of GM IIASHINGTON-The Supreme Court today refused to order a jury trial for a lawsuit in which more than 40,000. General Mot?rs Corp. early retirees accuse the automaker of Illegally cuttmg health care benefits. The court left intact rulings that said the federal lawsuit in Michigan may he tried before a judge without a jury. The pending class action lawsuit is one of the largest filed 
under the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The early retirees want GM to furnish them with basic health care coverage at no cost for their lifetimes, and for the lifetimes of their surviving spouses. The suit, filedin 1989~ contends that GM violated terms of its health care plan, in violation of the 197 4 act, when certain coverages were eliminated 
in 1988. 
Child-care company acquisition announced 
•KANSAS CITY -La Petite Academy Inc.; a leading child care company. would be acquired for: $170 million by soll1e ofJ~ senior managers and a New York investment firm under an agreement announced Mof!day. The deal ~as approve.d unanimously by the company s non-employee directors but IS subject to approval by a majority of La Petite shares. lt is subject to financing and to the corporation's acquisitio Brozman estate shares and other conditions. The Kansas City­based company, which had operating revenues of about $245 million in 1992, serves 83,000 children at 780 day care centers in 33 states. 
Critics doubtful of Bentsen's export plan 
NEW YORK (AP) -Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen's effort to boost Japan's yen and cut the country's trade surplus may prove popular with U.S. exporters, but economists say such exchange-rate tinkering alone won't solve the problem. 
And some say the effort, which has depressed the dollar to the lowest level against the yen since World War II, could end up hurting the American economy. 
Last Friday, Bentsen said he favored a strengthening of the yen. That would make Japan's exports more expensive and narrow the gap, which widened 14 percent last year to $49.4 billion. 
Japan's trade surplus is a raw nerve in Japanese-U.S. rela­tions. Many Americans see it as a symptom of economic vul­nerability to Japan that shows up in weakened U.S. industries and growing debts. 
Bentsen's off-the-cuff remark to reporters about the yen hardly seemed a final pro­nouncement on goverment policy toward Japan's trade surplus. But the global foreign exchange market, which has enormous influence over the relative value of currencies, took it as an official confirma­tion. 
Currency dealers already had been driving up the yen's value on speculation the seven lead­ing industrialized nations would agree on such a policy at a summit this Saturday in Lon­don. 
After Bentsen spoke they snapped up the Japanese cur­rency even more aggressively, pushing the dollar to postwar lows in hectic trading. The yen was trading at 116.30 to the dollar late Monday. 
Conventional wisdom holds that a weak dollar would make 
U.S. goods cheaper on world markets, boosting exports and cutting imports. 
But economists say further appreciation of the yen, which has more than doubled in value against the dollar since 1985, may make little sense in the current economic climate. 
One reason is that the recent surge in Japan's surplus is largely due to the country's lin­gering recession, which has dampened demand for imports. 
"The Japanese economy is weak, both governments should be trying to stimulate it, and cut interest rates by lowering the value of the yen," said John Morton, an economist at the Federal Reserve. 
Robert Brusca, chief financial economist at Nikko Securities Co. International Inc. in New 

Oil industry criticizes energy tax 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Clinton administration has un­derestimated by 50 percent the impact its proposed energy tax will have on the typical family, the oil industry asserted Mon­day. Clinton promptly denied that was the case, saying the industry's math "just doesn't work out." 
The tax would bring in $33 billion a year when fully effec­tive -not the $22.1 billion the administration predicts, said Charles DiBona, president of the American Petroleum Insti­tute. 
"That translates into an im­pact on a typical family, in terms of direct and indirect cost increases, of not the $320 a year the administration esti­mated but something more like $475," he said. 
But Clinton, when told in Seattle of the assertion that he had underestimated the energy tax's burden on families, replied "I thought we overestimated it, frankly." 
"It appears they are compar­ing apples and oranges," Trea-

AmeriteCh seeks share of long-distance 
CHICAGO (AP) -Ameritech, the parent of Bell telephone companies in the Great Lakes region, hopes to provide long­distance telephone services next year, the company an­nounced today. 
Company officials and ana­lysts said Ameritech is the first of seven regional so-called Baby Bells to seek a share of the long-distance telephone market. 
In exchange for Federal Communications Commission approval, the Chicago-based telecommunications giant said it will open its local telephone services to competition, in part by letting other service providers in the Midwest buy components of Ameritech's network to repackage with their own for resale. 
"This isn't a reorganization; 
York, said the factors that made Japan a feared exporting juggernaut in the 1980s have largely fizzled -cheap bank loans and inflated stock and real estate prices that allowed Japanese companies to subsi­dize their drive for foreign markets. 
"All of these things have changed," said Brusca. '!We don't need to push the value of the dollar down further, there are things in the pipeline al­ready that are going to adjust Japanese trade flows." 
Robert Aliber, a University of Chicago professor, said the trade problem has persisted through periods of both a strong and weak yen and prob­ably would not be significantly reduced by even a further 10 percent to 15 percent increase in the currency's value. 
"The sensitivity of Japanese imports and exports to cur­rency fluctuations is very mod­est," he said. 
Changes in the two countries' economies -for example, in­creased U.S. competitiveness and Japan's orientation away from market share and toward shorter-term profit -will help cure the imbalance, said economist David Bostian of in­vestment firm Herzog Heine Geduld. 
sury Department spokesman Jack DeVore said of the oil in­dustry. The estimates, he said, "are just not true." 
The latest estimates from the administration are that its pro­posed tax increases -princi­pally the energy tax for middle­income families and higher in­come taxes on the well-to-do ­would cost the typical $30,000­to-$50,000 family $204 a year. At $50,000 to $75,000, the cost would average $432. Those earning $200,000 and over would pay an average $14,376 more a year. 
Most of the energy tax in­creases on people making less than $30,000 a year would be negated by additional federal spending for income supple­ments. 
The reason for the differing estimates on total revenue from the tax is something called "income offset," DeVore said. This is a mechanism used by Treasury to predict how impo­sition of a consumption tax, such as the energy levy, will 
it's a transformation," said William Weiss, chairman and chief executive. "Let's get on with the future of this industry." 
Ameritech would compete with American Telephone & Co. Telegraph Co. and about 300 other companies for which Ameritech currently provides switching, special access and billing services, Weiss said. 
Analysts said Ameritech is the first Baby Bell to compete with its former parent in the long­distance market. AT&T was broken up into seven regional telephone companies following a successful antitrust lawsuit brought by the Justice Department. 
AT&T officials were in a meeting and not immediately available for comment on Ameritech's move, 

0fe~!~al.~udget s.!Jrplus'ille resulti':of fluke-timing, says treasury Department 
gove $29,8 billio e in ue thAn it spent last month, com· pared with a $15.7 billion de .Ye o. T .n~ 
ocia . . .. curity ·.· ... . . eks 

out early; on Dec, 31, be­ca11se the· da;y.they normally · have mail Jan. a on nd hat boosted the ce:rnber it to an unusually large $38,9 bil­
lion. 
Th~ January surplus. the largest since .. April 1991. re· duced the total red ink for the 
reduce collections of income taxes and payroll taxes. 
A basic premise of the offset, DeVore said, is that in making the projections, the value of all the nation's goods and services -the Gross Domestic Product -must be kept constant through each of the years for which an estimate is being made. 
"Thus, when we calculate the revenue from the energy tax, we assume no economic growth between now and 1997 -and you know that is not going to happen," DeVore explained. "But we use that device to get an accurate estimate of revenue." 
However, he added, the ad­ministration used the gross revenue from the tax -$29.3 billion -in estimating how the levy would affect families. 
DiBona said the Treasury De­partment's calculations imply that it expects the energy tax to cost the economy 700,000 jobs and reduce the nation's annual output by $35 billion. 
spokeswoman Carol Brown said. Ameritech hopes to file for FCC approval in March. 
Ameritech said it also will re­organize its five regional Bell networks in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin into 12 business units that will serve particular classes of cus­tomers across the five states. 
Beginning next year, all cus­tomers would make out their bills to Ameritech instead of the regional subsidiaries, Weiss said. 
Ameritech has been reducing its management staff and re­structuring since November 1991. The company said the changes were made to reduce paperwork, eliminate middle managers and give more re­sponsibility to employees who deal directly with customers. 
analysts still expect the deficit to set a new record by the time ~~6 1 993 fl$cal year' ends on 
Sept; 30. · 
The administration and the Congressional Budget Office are projecting a $319 billion surplus this year· and $~01 hil· 
Uori next year, if the. budget is unchanged. 
However, if.. Congr~ss adopts President Clinton's economic package. which includes a short-term spending increase 
and long•term .•...· .deficit reduction~ thl:! adntil!,istration predicts the deficit willbe $332 billion this year and $262 billion in 1994. 
.Two oth~t factors added to the January surplus. 
In anticipation of higher income taxes from Clinton in 1993, many high·inc~me peo· p~e aeceler~ted the collection·•. of bonuses and stock·options into 1992 and are now paying taxes on that income. 
vidual.. income. tax p ents totaled. $73.7billion last month. up 21.9 percent from a year ago. and $195.3 
b~{)nfor lll~ fiscal year so far. I1J) 11;7 percent. ·· 



-~~------------------------------------------~·----------------------~----------~ 
Viewpoint 
page 8t Tuesday, February 23, 1993 
The Observer 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Van! Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor ....••••••.••...••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...•••Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .........•••••....... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary·s Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631 -5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Jackson Is model should be an example 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
"You must pay the price if you wish to secure the blessings." 
Andrew Jackson 
Dear Editor, 
Despite the chant "Keep hope 
alive!" at the end of .Jesse Jack­
son's recent address to the 
NASCCU (National Association 
of Students at Catholic Colleges 
and Universities) convention 
and the Notre Dame student 
body, I left Stepan Center feel­
ing hopeless. 
Americans have been talking 
about eultural diversity-accep­
tance of other races and 
creeds-for many years, yet 
movement toward a brother­
hood of equality is slow. 
I wondered how Jackson continues on in hope and in pursuit of soeial change so I ex­plored his social and political career. I discovered that Jack­son, a man openly committed to faith and social change, is an excellent example for the Notre Dame community-a commu­nity which lauds its faith and commitment to the needs of the oppressed and the poor. 
Jackson has valued both faith and commitment to social change since his youth. !lis family shared a strong faith life and Jackson was personally active in his church. lie became involved in lighting for African­American rights during college when he registered thousands of black voters throughout the South. 
After attending college, .Jack­son entered the seminary. 
DOONESBURY . 
HI, HON&Y, IT'S Z!JNk. IM 
A UTTU3t«RRJ/5IJABOUT 
'TOUR 5HIPMCNT. ITHA5N'T ARRJVW YeT. .. 
I 
months before graduation, to work with Dr. Martin Luther King. This was the beginning of Jackson's social reform movements, public life and po­litical career. 
For the past twenty-seven years religion and faith have continued to be a constant focus of Jackson's social reform and political career. While running Operation Breadbasket in the late '60s, he held large televised Saturday morning prayer ser­vices in South Chicago which included sermons, bands, and gospel choirs. 
I lis motivational programs for youth-PUSH (People United to Save Humanity) and PUSH Excellence-encompass a religious focus as well. In ad­dition, Jackson's political speeches are characteristically filled with biblical allusions just as they were during his address at Notre Dame. 
Even at the 1984 Democratic Convention, Jackson ended his speech by saying, "As I develop and serve, be patient. God is not finished with me yet." Despite popular American secularism and separation of church and state, he has never denied his faith or its role in his political life. 
His scriptural references are a healing force for audiences. Biblical examples remind lis­teners of the true motivation behind Jackson's political ca-

mane living conditions and jus­
tice for all Americans super­
sedes race, gender, or creed. 
Our common Creator succumbs 
all our differences. 

Yet faith may not be the driv­ing force of all .Jackson's work. In the early 1980s, .Jackson vis­ited the Middle East and Latin America. Because both trips drastically increased Jackson's media coverage before the Democratic primaries it is doubtful that Jackson's motives for traveling were purely hu­manitarian. Visiting these re­gions heightened his stature as a world leader and thus as a powerful political contender. 
Jackson's example challenges us as Catholic college students. His faith calls him to work for the revolutionary social change that Jesus speaks of in the Bible. However, like all humans, he falls prey to the lure of power and prestige. 
As our lives loom before us, they are filled with infinite op­portunities to create the open­ness and change Jackson speaks and lives. We too can visibly live our faith ("They will know we are Christians by our love"). 
.Jackson is an excellent role model as a man whose faith remains at the core of and is in­tegrally linked to career. 
Laurie Niemann Badin Hall 
Feb.15,1993 
I N/3/3[)
HULO? HOWTH/5. 

saw:ov& 'tOU
ANYON~ PHON/5,7H/S 

71J 516NfOI< /JICN'T
HOM&? MAYBI3/T,.. 

f88At£SOt= tu!IAP 
MARIJUANA. IT!
/ I 

/ I 
Dear Editor: 

We at WVFI were upset by the 
treatment we received in the 
inside column of Feb. 16. 

We wholeheartedly support the idea of adding hours to the Nocturne programming schedule. We, seemingly unlike WSND, are not jealous or vindictive towards our counterpart radio station. We just do what we do, which is publicize and support the music we love the best we can with the resources provided. 
Over seventy students, work for WVFI as D.J's, subs and board members. We put a lot of effort and time putting out this music to the campus. You can hear us in the dorms, LaFortune and the Quads (try tuning your Walkman to 640 am next time you're studying in LaFortune or anywhere in or near the dorms.) 
Don't dismiss WVFI so glibly. Our music selection far eclipses that of WSND because we are dedicated to independent and innovative, rock, punk and pop music full time, constantly ex­panding the base of record la­bels and musical groups that we are in contact with and re­ceive music from (Dischord, Harriet, Lookout!, Sub Pop, Merge, Slumberland, C/Z, Kokopop and Shimmy Disc be­ing a few of the labels we work with). 
WSND is not a bad station at all. They, however, are not a substitute for WVFI. We are on, playing the finest in indepen­dent and alternative music ev­ery day for 19 hours (16 on weekends) a day. We have spe­cialty shows: Metal (7-9 p.m. 
Sunday), Grateful Dead (5-7 
p.m. Wed.), llip-llop (5-7 p.m. Mon.). Campus Bands (5-7 p.m.Tues.), Jazz (5-7 p.m. Sat.), and sports (7-8 p.m. Mon.). 
We have brought shows to ND, including The Connells, Toad the Wet Sprocket, and the Crazy 8's. DJ's independently brought the Treepeople to play last year and may bring the Swirlies and the Grifters this year. Also, on March :n, we an~ hosting the incredible, ac­claimed and soon to be mon­strously popular edgy pop act Velocity Girl. 
We also put out Luxury, our program guidfl/magazilw fand, budget willing will put out an­other edition this semesterl. Finally, we are organizing a mailing list of people who would be interested in receiving a weekly informative mailing about WVFI, local and national music, and cd and record give­aways. To be on the mailing list, call us at 1-4070 and leave your name and address. 
In conclusion we would like to say that we have nothing against WSND and we would just appreciate respect from them. If WSND wants to pro­mote itself, we would suggest positive action; put out a guide, support a show, increase awareness, but don't put us down. We should be working together, instead of grumbling at each other. After all, isn't the point behind all this supporting the music we love? 
Joe Cannon 
AMDWVFI 
Off-Campus 
Feb.19, 1993 

WVFI deserves more respect 
~~~~-­
------------------~-----------------------, 
J 
Viewpoint

Tuesday, February 23, 1993 page 9 
Gary J. Caruso sat directly behind me. Two fected person is highly conta­women holding hands sat gious during the first two weeks
Capitol Comments 
While visiting the campus last behind them, and two men of the infection. fall, I obtained a Scholastic holding hands sat behind all of Therefore, the lag time be­magazine with references to us. The Gallaudet College crowd tween infection, contagious pe­
sat near the front where they riod, and antibody detection is
AIDS on the cover. Unfortu­nately, I found the content to be could see the person who was so long that many infect others 
signing. without knowing it. 
quite lacking. 
So I decided to visit the The clinic's director began his Sexually active people must presentation by passing out practice "safe sex" to avoid con­
Whitman Walker Clinic in 
Washington, DC, to learn more Rough Riders "ridged" con­tracting the HIV virus. Behavior about AIDS and be tested for doms. What the hell did he ex­modification and responsible the HIV virus. It was a scary, pect us to do with these? While sex is safe sex. but extremely educational visit. some joked, others were red­To be safe, one must avoid 
faced, and I just looked at my risky behavior. The clinic direc­
This is my recollection of my experience at the clinic. Read feet while my shoulder leaned tor outlined the four ways of 
against the wall. passing the virus through risky carefully and learn something The director drew a line behavior: vaginal intercoursenew like I did. 
HIV testing is done anony­across the chalk board. At the without using a condom, anal mously, so when I called, I was left were the words, "Exposure intercourse without using a 
asked to give an initial of my = Infection." A mark midway condom, oral sex without using name with my birth date (A-12-along the line was labeled with a condom or dental dam, and 34-56). On the Wednesday "3 to 6 months HIV detected." sharing needles. evening when they drew my At the far right was, "Up to 9 He emphasized the need to 
blood, I was known simply by a years for symptoms." create a barrier between the 
letter and six numbers. Yet, He explained that if you are exchange of fluids between in­exposed, you will get infected. dividuals. Those fluids to avoid
while all of us fifty or so partici­
Once infected, your body cre­are blood, semen, and vaginal
pants were technically 
"anonymous," each of us could ates antibodies in response to secretions. read those around us fairly the HIV virus, but cannot fight He also noted that while well. the virus. Nonoxynol 9 kills the virus in a 
My first surprise was the While these antibodies can be test tube, it cannot be depended number of women at this sup­detected after 3 months, almost upon alone, but should be used posedly "men's gay clinic." After 90 percent of those infected de­in conjunction with a condom. 
reporting in, we were herded to velop their antibodies by the Then he demonstrated the the basement for an sixth month. However, an in-correct usage of condoms, and educational session. 

I was particularly impressed by the person who signed dur­
In 1991 about 13 percent of ing the presentation. It was not those tested at the Whitman 
until later when we were called Walker Clinic were HIV positive. 
(by our number) to draw blood Last year only about 5 percent that I realized several of the tested positive. participants were students from Nationally more women and 
the Gallaudet College for the minorities are new HIV positive Deaf. Two-thirds of them were cases. Trends change with ed­women. 
ucation. 
For me, the required educa­AIDS is a disease that attacks tional session taught me more everyone, including those in the in an hour than I had learned in Notre Dame community. It is a a lifetime of gathering bits and serious matter that needs 
pieces from other sources. everyone's attention and un­I sat in the middle of the room derstanding, void of personal against the wall avoiding the judgments. other participants. Next to me Seek out information and be 
sat an African American the best educated you can. By woman who dressed like her the way, I tested negative... l income was below the poverty knew I would. 
line. Gary J. Caruso is a graduate Several "yuppie" guys in their of the University ofNotre Dame twenties and thirties dotted the and now works in Washington, 
immediate rows of folding D.C. as a desktop publishing chairs nearest us. A couple, specialist for the United States 
man and woman. holding hands 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hoops fans let the Irish down 

AIDS test proved an educational experience 
had us play with the condoms. This is where my ignorance showed. 
He opened a package and un­rolled the condom. Then he stretched it over his fist and arm. "Don't let me hear that these things are too small," he said. ''I'd like to meet someone bigger than this!" 
The tension eased a bit after that remark. He then empha­sized that one should only use condoms that are made of latex. Others have pores that permit the virus to pass through them. 
The clinic director also men­tioned that condoms are not biodegradable, so avoid throwing them into the toilet. That environmentally correct statement was our second ten­sion reliever. 
The next wise crack from him had to do with one's personal lifestyle. He advised us that the 
best way to avoid the HIV virus is abstinence. The second best is monogamy, but not like some have told him, ''I'm pretty much monogamous." 
He also mentioned that oral sex is also risky. 
Finally, he mentioned that if you must share needles, pull pure bleach into the vial and 

Dear Editor: 
On Wednesday night Notre Dame ended their home stretch against top 25 teams. It was sad to see only 50% of the season ticket holding students there. Across from the band in the two upper bleacher sections, there was one small loud group, and I thought, "Wow, they have spirit! " Yeah, great spirit, especially when they held up the blue and gold Marquette flag. Then in the rows behind us (the main student body section) was a large group of very vocal Marquette students. Where were the Irish fans? And why did you sell them you're season tickets? 
To make matters worse, we played good basketball. So all you people who read the Chicago Tribune and saw that Malik Russell is a disappoint­ment, thanks for staying home. You really helped out the bas­ketball team by giving up hope and being a no-show. You didn't leave the Penn State football game when we were losing in the fourth quarter. We had a great 12 point lead in the opening five-minutes, but Mar­quette came back, not that there was a loud student body to stop them. Their cheerlead­ers were louder then our stu­dents (Go Marquette defense, Go!). 
Now grant you, we are not the powerhouse in hoops like we are on the football field, but we cannot give up hope. For those who went to the game, we saw the typical terrible offi­ciating (Ryan Hoover will know now not to touch anyone), our coach get angry with the offi­cials (go get 'em Coach), Jon Ross dropping three's from the perimeter (he shoots and re­bounds), Brooks Boyer playing defense (stripping the ball and attacking the big man Key), Joe and Jon Ross blocking out un­der the hoop (we had problems getting our hands to stay with it, but hell, we had the posi­tion), and we realized that we were not like Syracuse from the foul line (we still aren't great, but we're improving). All in all it was positive outing for the Irish. Yes, we lost by eight, but they are the #24 team in America. 

then pull water a few times until the bleach smell is gone. That will definitely kill the HIV virus. 
Then he passed out question­naires for us to answer. Did we have sex while on drugs or after drinking alcohol? Did we ever pay for sex or receive money for sex? (The woman next to me answered "yes.") How many sex partners did we have in the last three months? The form was two full pages. 
We had our blood drawn free of charge, although a $25 con­tribution was requested. We scheduled a return session in two days when our results would be available. 
At that time we would discuss our sexual behavior with a counselor in a one-on-one ses­sion where our results would be revealed to us. Depending on our lifestyle, recommendations would be made and future times for another test sug­gested. 
It seemed strange to be back on Friday evening with the same people sitting around me waiting for our turn. For some, tension tormented their wait. For others, it was as though they were waiting in the den­tist's office to have their teeth cleaned. 
House ofRepresentatives. 
Senior Bar won't be closing 
If we ever want a great bas­ketball team to complement ev­ery other great Irish sport then they need our support. They'll all be back next year, and they are improving. So stop crying about how much Digger hurt us, they are getting better and Coach MacCloud is doing a great job with them (could Jon Ross dunk with Digger coach­ing, I don't think so). I know that our last two home games are near Mid-Term time,(I have Physics, Genetics, Biology, and Italian all after the two games) but come on two hours a night won't kill you. You probably waste that much time playing Sega Genesis or watching TV in the afternoon. 
So study earlier and get to those last two games and let the players and coaches know that they're doing a hell of a job this year, and next year we will be waiting in our seats to see how good the Irish can be. 
Jamie DeMaria Flanner Hall February 18, 1993 

Dear Editor: 
As the student managers of the Alumni-Senior Club we felt that it was necessary to address some rumors that have recently surfaced regarding the future of The Club. The Alumni-Senior Club will not be closing at the end of this year or any time in the foreseeable future. The University has not expressed a desire to close The Club at any time. Based on these facts we are beginning to hire our managers and staff for the 1993-94 academic year. 
With that said, we would like to speak to the group that can close down The Club, the stu­dents. The Alumni-Senior Club is an entirely self-sufficient en­tity apart from the University. We receive no funding from the University for operations, and in fact, we lease the building and facilities from the Univer­sity. Consequently, like most of the other bars in town, we rely on student support to ke~p us going. ~ 
The Alumni-Senior Club is run by students for students. We feel that this allows us to re­spond to our customers' needs better than most. Unfortunately, many of you do not realize how much The Club has to offer. To remedy this problem we will be sending a mailer detailing upcoming events and new nightly specials. We encourage anyone who has suggestions on how we can better serve the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community to send them to The Club. · 
The Alumni-Senior Club has existed in its current form since the early 70's. During that time, many students have enjoyed their first legal drink, seen their friends for the last time during Senior Week, and have met them again years later as alumni. Notre Dame is one of the few universities that still provides a club of this type. The Alumni-Senior Club can be everything that you want it to be. We will do our best to make it that way, but we need your help to make it "the place to be." 
James Gruver Mary Glode February 19, 1993 

~ 
I r 
~ 
I 
I Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, February 23, 1993 
Woman of Brewster Place 
Critically acclaimed author Gloria Naylor comes to Notre Dame tonight 
By MATT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
Formally a Jehovah's Witness missionary and switchboard operator, Gloria Naylor is now a prominent author and teacher. 
Naylor will be speaking tonight as the third of five writers participating in the 1993 Sophomore Literary Fes­tival. 
Naylor's first book, The Women of Brewster Place. was published in 1982 while she was studying for a Master of Arts in Afro-American Studies at Yale University. 
The novel was critically ac­claimed, winning the 1983 American Book Award, which is given annually to the best first novel written in the coun­try. 
Her success launched Naylor into the forefront of the American literary scene. The novel was later made into a mini-series starring Oprah Winfrey. 
From this illustrious begin­ning, Naylor has continued her writing, publishing two more novels: Linden Hills in 1985, and Mama Day in 1988. She has also recently published a new novel entitled Bailey's Cafe. 
Naylor's novels explore the experience of the black female in America. "I wanted to become a writer," she says, "because I felt that my pres­ence as a black woman and my perspective as a woman in general had been under­represented in American literature." 
It is this emphasis on the less-explored side of America that the Sophomore Literary Festival was looking for when it chose to invite Naylor. according to Kerry McArdle, chairperson of the festival. 
McArdle said that at the end of last year, when the festival committee members met and brainstormed about which au­thors to invite, they "were looking for new and interesting writers-we wanted a diverse group of people." Gloria Naylor fits this description, she said. 
Before she began to write, Naylor was a missionary for Jehovah's Witnesses from 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
You've just gotta love this sound. An acoustic guitar, a woman's pretty voice, and drums. No keyboards, no amps, no wah-wah. A little bass every once in a while. Lyrics about lost love and other silly, fun stuff. Nothing too heavy. 
Well, you don't have to love it. No one's gonna make you. But if you'd rather listen exclusively to tremendously perturbed women. like Yo-Yo or .Janis Joplin or L7, then you're missing out. 
Lois Maffeo was one half of what was Courtney Love (the group, not the angry person). She wrote pop songs full of wit and irony for that duo, and sang them while playing an out-of-tune acoustic guitar. Courtney Love appeared almost exclusively on seven­inch vinyl, but Lois deeided to take the LP route for her 11­song solo debut. 
Of course, "long-playing" is defined by the medium on which the music appears, and has little to do with chronological duration. Butt11rfly Kiss docks in at just over 23 minutes. 
But those 23 minutes are an intense pop-musical experi­ence. 
Lois 
Butterfly Kiss 
**** 
(out of five) 
Starting, stuttering, and stopping, Lois veers away from conventional acoustic sounds without sacrificing the familiar essence of her music. And with edgy anxiety, Lois tells us about herself in frank terms. 
"Can't you see? I I'm the most terrific lead boy-girl the world has ever seen," she sings on "Press Play and Record," itself released as a seven-inch. But Lois isn't cocksure, we learn later in the song. "Maybe you'll fall for me like I've fallen for myself." 
With the simplicity of its in­strumentation, some might argue that Butterfly Kiss tends toward monotony. But in this work. the succinct nature of these pop songs helps them out. You don't have time to get tired of Lois, because the album is shorter than a sitcom (without the commercials). 
Like any real popster, Lois shows off her ties to some of her musical kin. She quotes ginning at 8 p.m. tonight in Naylor will also be holding a the Hesburgh Library book signing at the Little Pro­Auditorium. The readings will fessor Book Center in the last for about an hour, after Martin's Shopping Center, lo­which there will be a cated at SR 23 and Ironwood. reception in the library She will be signing books this lounge. Admission is free and afternoon from 4:30-5:30 open to the public. p.m. 



1968 to 1975, then worked as a hotel switchboard operator as she studied at Brooklyn College for her undergraduate degree in English. 
After she began writing, Naylor also got involved in screenwriting , for which she has won awards, and in motion picture production. She is currently president of One Way Productions, an independent film company that is presently producing a feature-length film adapted from Mama Day. 
In addition to all of this, Naylor has taught at several major colleges, including New York University, Princeton University and Cornell University. She has also been a visiting lecturer at several other universities. 
Naylor will read from her works, including her just-pub­lished novel Bailey's Cafe, be-

Lois transforms the unconventional 
Thatcher on Acid 

Lois Maffeo, former memebr of the duo Courtney Love. has released a 23-minute LP entitled. "Butterfly 
Kiss." 

the Velvet Underground on Wheeler's name in the album "Davey," ("Here he comes/You credits. better watch your step/You Indeed, Lois reminds the lis­better watch his, too") and tener of good British girl-pop. sounds similar enough to the And like fellow American Ju­Sundays on "Stroll Always" liana Hatfield, she uses a soft, that I checked for Harriet innocent voice to lull the lis­
tener. Soon, everyone that hears her music is hooked. 
Butterfly Kiss can be ordered from K records, PO Box 7154, Olympia, WA 98507. 


The Observer 
Tuesday, February 23,1993 

Lakers get Benjamin for Perkins 
SEATTLE (AP) -The Seattle SuperSonics acquired Sam Perkins from the Los Angeles Lakers today in a trade for lit­tle-used center Benoit Benjamin and never-used rookie Doug Christie. 
Christie, the 17th player cho­sen in the 1992 NBA draft, would not sign with the Sonics. 
The Sonics, looking to strengthen themselves for the second half of the NBA season, were expected to put the 6-foot­9 Perkins into the starting lineup in place of Michael Cage. 
Cage, in his fifth season with the Sonics, is expected to be­come a key player off the bench for coach George Karl. 
The Sonics, who had a 32-17 record before the All-Star break, resume the season in Denver Tuesday night. 
Perkins has been averaging 
13.7 points, 7.7 rebounds and 
1.0 blocks with the 26-23 Lak­ers this season. He is hitting 
45.9 percent of his shots and is an 83 percent free-throw shooter. 

The Sonics inherit Perkins' six-year, $19.2 million contract that he signed with the Lakers in August, 1990. 
Benjamin, 28, was earning $3.1 million with the Sonics this season, 23 percent of Seattle's salary cap. After Benjamin's acquisition by Seattle, he signed a 6-year, $19.2 million contract with the Sonics. 
In his first full year as the Sonics' coach, Karl had the 7­foot, 260-pound Benjamin on the bench most of the season and went with a quicker, more mobile starting lineup featuring 6-10 All-Star Shawn Kemp. 
Karl replaced the fired K.C. Jones as the Sonics' coach in January, 1992. 
Benjamin played in just 31 of the Sonics' first 50 games, av­eraging only 14 1/2 minutes. He has not played in 11 of the past 17 games. 
The Sonics acquired Benjamin from the Los Angeles Clippers, where he played for 5 1/2 seasons, on Feb. 20, 1991. 
Christie, 22, a 6-6 swingman from Pepperdine who played at Seattle's Rainier Beach High School, turned down a four­year, $2.742 million deal with the Sonics on Oct. 6. 
Negotiations between Sonics general manager Bob Whitsitt and Brad Marshall, Christie's agent, failed to work out. 
Christie averaged 16 points in his three-year career at Pep­perdine. 
Perkins was the fourth pick in the 1984 draft by Dallas after playing at University of North Carolina. He played six seasons for the Mavericks and then signed as an unrestricted free sagent with the Lakers in 1990. 
Benjamin came into this sea­son averaging 13.1 points in seven seasons, including 14.0 last season with the Sonics. He is averaing just 6. 7 points and 
3.6 rebounds this season. 
The veteran from Creighton was the third pick, by the Clip­pers, in the 1985 draft. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from f 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3f4 LaFortune and from f2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

TYPING 287-4082 
TYPING 256-6657 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's 
in the Bookmobile f2-4 daily 233­
2342 NO Ave & Howard 
Dissertations, Theses. Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277-7406 
GRE TUTOR 
TOM 
288-6578 
Eat the GRE for lunch Ill 
Lost and Found 
LOST: Gold circle earring on a 
dangling hook at Keenan 
Revue--1/28 
Call 284-5254 
LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. Lost on 219/93. REWARD!!! If found contact Buffy at x3772. 
LOST: heavy gold tone chain link bracelet somewhere between north quad and Debartolo on 2/5. Great sentimental value . Call Liz x1345 
LOST LOST LOST LOST 
BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER 
GLOVES at the SOUTH DINING 
HALL. PLEASE CALL 
JACKIE at x2205-my hands are 
freezing! 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER JACKET SATURDAY OUTSIDE OF MORRISSEY. CALL 4-2338. 
LOST-Men's black wool dress coat during ISO party. -Was Christmas gift. Please call Chuck at #3277 
At the DILLON FORMAL, we switched long, green coats. Mine is blue-green with apple stitches on the inside. Call Molly x4121 
Lost: Long, forest green wool 
coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our 
coats were accidently switched -I 
have a similar, bluish-green coat. 
Please hurry -JPW is coming up! 
Call4966. 
Did you take the wrong navy blazer from the Lyons-Howard formal on February 6? I am missing a Wimbeldon brand blazer from that dance and desperately need it for JPW this weekend. Please call Tim at 1422. 
Found: one slightly damaged gold 
earring 2/16, in B 1 parking lot 
between stadium and DeBar!. Call 
Ron at 273-1871 to identify. 
Attention! I found your gold, claddagh earring! Call4-3842. 
Lost, 02/ 17: 
Black/white cotton scarf. Please 
call B. A. at 271-1263.
ILOST & FOUND I 
**SCARF-SCARF-SCARF.. Somehow I've managed to lose three of them within the last four weeks. One is big and grey, two are small and black. Please call Paula @ 4271 if you find any of them. I'm freezing Ill 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628. 
YO! 
I NEED A RIDE To DE, PA, So. NJ for Spring Break Call SEAN x1605 
Looking for someone driving 
to Phoenix for spring break with room to haul a Mac SE, with printer and keyboard, to destination in that city. I'll contribute $50 toward travel expenses. Call234-6747; leave message on machine if no one home. 
Help! Need ride to DEIPA for Spring Break -leave Thur/Fri Will Pay$ Amanda x4957 
SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach wanted for H.S. level team. Call 277-4791 for details. 
I'm a-going to Disney World! Actually, I am going home to Orlando, the City Beautiful, home of much more than Shaq and Mickey, for Spring Break. I've got some room, too. Join me. Call toll-free 273-0895, and ask for Ro. 
DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE TO 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY FEB 26-28 WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS AND TOLLS CALL JOIE X2909 
HELP! 
I need a ride to the DC area 
for break! PLEASE!!! Will help w/gas & tolls. Call X3823 
FUNDRAISER We're looking for a top fraternity, sorority or student organization that would like to make $500-$1,500 for one week marketing project right on campus. Must be organized and hard working. Call (800) 592-2121 ext. 308. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn $2,000+/month + world travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment prograrn call 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 
Rider sought returning from spring break in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian 3677. 
Ride(s) needed to Washington DC area for spring break. Flexible on date and time of departure. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call and ask for anyone at X4721 or X4758. 
Going to Florida for Spring Break!! Can you drop me off/ pick me up in Louisville? I'll pay lots of money! I'm Linda. 
X1317. 
RIDE WANTED to Ricmond/DC area for break flexible on time, will help with tolls & gas, can drive stick. Call Marc 4-1128 
#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# 
I NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI(OH) UNIV. THIS WEEKEND WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS CALL BRIAN 4-2081 
#"/o#%#"/o#%#"/o#''lo#"/o#"/o#%# 
N.D. souvenier collector seeking N.D. student 10 call John at 233-3059. 
[ FOR RENT ] 
FURNISHED HOMES t:Xvt:LLr:o., NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291-7153. 
6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
Women's light weight 26 in. Schwinn bike. 10speed, red, like new, $135, call 234-7035. 
New JVC Stereo System With Infinity Speakers. Tuner, Disc, Double Cassette. Half Price Call 1-8323 
STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette recorder, turntable, am/fm radio, graphic equalizer. Good condition. Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy at 233-2407. 
WEDDING DRESS: SIZE 9/10. VERY ELEGANT, MUST SEE TO APPRECIATE. COST $1200 NEW, 
ASKING $475. CALL EVENINGS 
(616) 473-2107. 
VACATION PKG FOR 2-4 day 3­night stay (sun-Thu) with Restaurant & Attractions coupon bk. at Hilton hotel-Las Vegas, Orlando or Hilton Head. 30-day notice needed. Offer good to 5/1/93. $250. 273-1702. 
TOYOTA TERCEL, blue 1981 good shape, standard. Call Scot @4013 
NO Apex One Jacket 
Medium, Almost New $60 or make an offer call Mike X3040 

PERSONAL 
SHORT ON CASH? Borrow from the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 day loans Upto$250 @ 1% interest 
Monday -Friday 
11:30-12:30 
1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 

ADOPTION: Were you overwhelmed when you found out you were pregnant? We were overwhelmed when we found out we couldn't have children. We're a Catholic nurse/doctor couple happily married for 9 years. If you want your baby to grow up with patient, loving parents, a large extended family, & two very sweet dogs, please call Mary and Michael 1-800-759-6039. 
UUH*HELP!!..*'**** 
DESPERATE BUT 

BEAUTIFUL GIRL SEEKS A RIDE TO/FROM PHILA. AREA 
FOR SPRING BREAK. 
DO YOU HAVE YOUR 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
TEAM NAME YET??? WELL, SIGN-UPS are on February 28th so get those dirty minds working now so you don't come up with something we can easily SNUB. 
Sincerely, 

The Bookstore Guys 
!!!!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!11!!!1! Will Lorrei's snap-a-scam man please reveal himself. 
!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1! 
Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrolpgical Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. 
Jiz, When are we going to go on that "spending spree?" Love, The Catwoman MeowI 
Scrod e. Sounds like "prune tang" tome! -Diddley 
THANK YOU SAINT JUDE FOR 
PRAYERS GRANTED. 

I NEED A RIDE TO EAST. PAl NJ FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL PAY$$$$1 CALL MAUREEN AT 2862 
••• STELLA ••• You are our own shining star. Thank you for JPW and for being you! 
Love, 
Mom and Dad 
Hey NDE ET: Pass the Skittles! 
I NEED A RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA MARCH 50R6 CALL JULIE X3736 
Bookstore Basketball XXII SIGN-UPS SUNDAY Feb.28 
Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232­5843. 

Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
I'm driving to Syracuse soon for 1-2 days and would rather not drive 1 0 hours alone. Want to come? Patty X4055. 
•••sPRING BREAK LOANS... 
From the 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 Day Loans 
Up to $250 @1% Interest 
Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
Need a ride to North Carolina over Spring Break. 
Call Dave at 4-3662 
SOUTH PADRE, BEACHFRONT, 
RADISSON RESORT, PARTIES, 
CONTESTS. SLEEPS 6-8 AND MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA 
HOUSE, SLEEPS 
4-6. $750. WK. 212-472-1414. 
I know how I want you to say good­bye Find a circus ring with a flying trapeze-Tell me on a Sunday please. darmok 
GOING TO OR THRU PA FOR $PRING BREAK?? 
I NEED A RIDE! ERIN X2963 
HELP!HELP!HELP!HELPIHELP! 
HELP! 
Desperate female seeking ride to 
D.C. area for spring break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah @ 284-4308 and leave message. 

To the guy who snapped a scam of Kristen (blue dress, flower in mouth): Please call me-I'M DYING TO KNOW WHO YOU ARE!!! 
Tom Arkell: 
Thank you for the Snap-A­Scam photo! You've got a great smile. 
-Your secret admirer 
P.S. Keep smiling, I may be watching. 
To: DG, CP, TM and the rest of the best ­
Thanks tor the laughter and the friendship, for making every day one to remember! 
Love Me 
Help! I need a ride to NC for break. Will share expenses. 
Call Kathleen X4423 
I need a ride to South Dakota or anywhere west for Spring Break. Please call Mindy @4311 
HELP WANTED, PART TIME Need a Notre Dame student, preferrably a grad student or an upperclass student who is familiar with Notre Dame sports history to research 365 items of sports history about Notre Dame by March 1. Willing to pay $400. If interested write or call: XENA CALENDARS INC. P.O. BOX 2653 KALAMAZOO, Ml 49003 616-372-4495. 
Here are the top 15 quotes from Stacey's basement: 
15. I want to shower with Stacey before I leave this house. 
14. Nobody's naked, are they? 
13. Mike made a field goal 
12. If you give me some nose plugs, I'll help you clean it up. 
11. Hey Stacey, your dad can drink with us any time. 
10. He's babbling drunk. 
9. Those people in South Central, they need hope. 
8. I don't want to talk about puke anymore tonight. 
7. Don't do anything you'll regret in nine months. 
6. SMC is a housing project for prospective ND wives. 
5. It looks like it but it's not as thick. 
4. We have a legitimate couple at our feet but I don't know about the one at aur head. 
3. I don't know how much more luggage we can fit in this thing, it's so full. 
2. She's like a Triscuit-I wouldn't mind having her with a piece of American cheese. 
1. I'm just a caveman 
Don't Forget: March IS Energy Conservation Month 
Tuesday, February 23, 1993
page 12 The Observer 

.......... ························ ..... .................
. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . 0 
~

. ,... . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .
"'' ,. • . . . .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 
~ ~

.,...--..... .~ ' .. 0 "' ..... · · ·.................. · ·............. · · ~ · u~· 0 
~ t..\~ .· • :: .: :: ·•. : : :: : : : : ·•• : : '#~ ~ 
..... ..... ..... . ........ ...... ..... . .. ....... 
TRANSACTIONS 
ATHLETICS 
ATHLETlCS CANAOA---&Inned Oral O'GIIvte, triple Jumper, from competition for lour years. BASEBALL 
American League 
BALTIMOAE ORIOLEs-81gned Alan Millo and Anthony Telford, pitchero, and Jack Voight, au ftelder, to one-y-contracto. National League 
CINCINNATI RED5-Signed Milt Hill, pitcher, to a one-v-contract. 
HOUSTON ASTROS-Agreed to termo with Jaoon Grlmoley and Todd Jones, pnchero, and Ctvla Donnelo, Infielder, on one-year contracto. BASKETBALL National Baeketball A..oclatlon 
LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Traded Sam Perklno, loiwerd, to the Seattle SuperSonlca lor Benoit Benjamin, center, and the rlghto to Doug 
Ctvlllle, torwwd. 
UnHed Stelae Buketball League 
ATLANTA EAGLE~ed Garrett John81on dlractor ol public r-ono. FOOTBALL National Football League 
BUFFALO Blus-Promoled aoaiatenl director ol collegiate I<XlUIIng A.J. Smith to dlractor of pro 
peroonnel. 
SEATTLE SEAHAWK$-Announced tha retirement of Vann McElroy, oalety. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
NEW YORK ISLANDERs-Acquired Rick Hey­w.-d, ~en. from the Wlmlpeg Jeto for fu­tlXe conokleretiono. 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled Wade Flaherty, goalie, on en emergency baolo from Keneaa cny ot the lntllmllllonal Hockey League. Colonial Hockey League 
FLINT BULLDOGS-Announced aooocillle coach Marty Row will become coach for the 1993-94 uaoon and coach Skip Probot will remain ao praoldent and genral manager. Eaot Coaot Hockey League 
LOUISVILLE ICEHAWKs-Announced Mike Greenley, goalie, hao been called up by Allenta olthe lntllmllllonal Hockey League. OLYMPICS 
USA BASKETBALL-Named Vanderbilt women'o coach Jim Footer coach olthe women'• Junior world baoketball team. 
USROWING--Named Mike Spracklen men'o sweep coach. COLLEGE 
CALIFORNIA-Named Denny Schuler offenolve coordinator and quertert>acka coach. JAMES MADISON-Announced the reolgnation ot Darrell Gaol, recelvero coach. LOUISVILLE-Named VIctor Petroni men's 
aoc car coach. 
PENN STATE-Named Kenny Jackson wide recelwro coach. SETON HALL-4Wned Bill Wing men's tennlo coach. 
NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Petrick Dlvlolon w L T Pia GF GA Home Away Dlv Plttsburlt\ 38 

17 5 81 251 198 22-5-3 18-12·2 18-8-2 Weohlngton 31 22 6 88 246 212 14-7-5 
17-15-1 9-11-2 New Jeroey 28 25 
5 81 208 207 17-11-2 11-14-3 12-12-1 NY Rangers 26 24 9 61 232 225 17-8-4 
9-16-5 10-14-3 
60 243 213 15-13-2 12-13-4 14-11-1 Phlledelphla 20 29 11 51 228 244 14-11-5 6-18-8 7-14-3 Adorns Division Montreal 37 19 6 80 251 203 23-8-2 NY Islanders 27 26 6 
14-11-4 16-8-o Quebec 33 18 9 75 247 214 16-11-2 17-7-7 14-7-3 Boston 32 6 240 212 18-7-2
22 70 14-15·4 13-8-1 
21-6-2 9-16-5 15-7-3 Hartford 16 39 4 36 193 268 9-18-4 7-21-o 
Bulfalo 30 22 7 67 254 206 

8-17-2 
288 7-21-4 0-29-Q 3-22-1 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division w L T Pia GF GA Home Away Dlv 
Ottawa 7 50 4 18 142 

14-13-4 15-9-2 Detron 33 21 9 75 268 211 19-11-3 14-10-8 14-11-3 MlnMOOta 30 8 213 206 14-12-8 Chicago 34 20 8 76 216 171 20-7-4 
23 68 16-11·2 12-10-3 Toronto 29 22 9 87 203 
181 18-10-5 11-12-4 14-11-5 Sl Louis 28 28 6 80 209 220 15-11-5 
11-17-3 9-12-5 Tampa Bey 19 39 4 42 188 233 10-18-2 9-21-2 7-18-2 Smythe OMolon v~ 33 16 6 74 252 181 21-5-4 12-13-4 18-8-2 
31 21 9 71 239 206 16-1()-4 15-1Hi 15-5-3 Loo Angeles 27 27 7 61 244 260 15-12-4 12-15-3 11-13-2 Winnipeg Calgary 
25 28 8 56 212 228 16-1Q-2 9-18-4 11-11-3 Edmonton 22 32 8 52 179 237 13-11di 9-21-3 9-18-1 Sen Jooe 8 50 2 
18 184 299 5-24-1 3-26-1 8-19-1 
Mond•y'e O•m•• Tueed•y'e Gem•• 
Leta Gam•• Not Included Edmonton at Quebec, 7:40 p.m. Detroit 5, Philadelphia 5, tie Weohlngton at New York Islanders, 7:40 p.m. Loo Angel• li, Tampa Bey 2 New Jersey at Pittsburgh, 7:40p.m. 
Ottawa Ill Winnipeg, (n) 
Montreal at Sl Louis, 8:40 p.m.Toronto at VflllC04NW, (n) 

Wlmlpeg VII. Ottawa at Saskatoon, Sask., 9:40 p.m. New York Rangers VII. Sen Joee 
Calgary Ill Sen Joee, 10:40 p.m. 
Arbitration winners-losers 
The results of arbitration cases won or lost by players and owners. 

Winners ·:· ···· . . ··'.,...,. .,,. ,_,.. ·:.. · ;·_: .., · · 
Player, Club Asked Offered Jack McDowell, Chicago White Sox $4,000,000 $3,150,000 Darrln Jackson, San Diego Padres $2,100,000 $1,500,000 Andy Benes, San Diego Padres $2,050,000 $1,550,000 Losers .. __._,,,.,,_., ·.... .,.. ,. 
Player, Club Asked Offered Kevin Brown, Texas Rangers $3,400,000 $2,800,000 Jim Abbott, New York Yankees $3,500,000 $2,350,000 Kenny Rogers, Texas Rangers $1,500,000 $1,000,000 Jerry Browne, Oakland Athletics $1,950,000 $625,000 Mark Lemke, Atlanta Braves $925,000 $550,000 

AP 


NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Dlvlolon 
w L Pet. GB New York 34 18 .680 New Jeroey 30 21 .588 41/2 Booton 26 24 .520 8 Orlando 24 23 .511 81/2

1 Indiana (63l 24-2 1620 1 2 Kentucky(1 20-2 1509 2 Miami 18 31 .387 15 1/2 Phlledelphla 18 31 .367 151/2
3 North Carolina (1) 22-3 1457 3 Weohlngton 15 36 .294 19 1/2
4 Arizona 19-2 1423 4 Central Dlvtelon 5 Michigan 21-4 1401 5 
Chicago 35 17 .673 6 Florida State 21-6 12409 
Cleveland 34 19 .842 1 1/2 7 Kansas 21-4 1222 6 
Charlotte 28 23 .531 71/2 8 Vanderbilt 21-4 1125 11 Atlanta 24 27 .471 101/2 Indiana 23 28 .451 11 1/2
9 Duke 20-5 1103 7 Datron 21 29 .420 13
10 Cincinnati 20-3 10748 Milwaukee 20 31 .392 141/2
11 Utah 21-3 932 12 WESTERN CONFERENCE
12 Wake Forest 17-5 854 10 Mldw..t Dlvtelon 13 UNLV 17-3 763 
w L Pet. GB 14 Seton Hall 20-6 762 
San Antonio 34 15 .894 15 Arkansas 17-6 672 Utah 33 18 .847 2 Houoton 30 21 .588 5
16 Tulane 20-4 639 Denver 20 30 .400 14 1/2
17 Purdue 15-6 537 MinMOOta 12 35 .255 21
18 Iowa 16-6 527 Dallao 4 45 .082 3019 New Orleans 20-2 500 
Pacific Dlvlelon 20 Marquette 19-4 313 
Phoenix 38 10 .792 21 Massachusetts 18-5 281 19 
Seattle 33 17 .880 8 22 Virgina 16-6 235 23 Porlland 31 16 .680 61/2 LA Lekero 28 23 .531 12 1/2
23 Brlgham Young 21-5 184 ­LA Clippers 26 25 .510 13 1/2
24 Xavier, Ohio 18-3 125 ­Golden State 23 30 .434 17 1/2
25 Pittsburgh 15-7 103 17 Sacramento 17 34 .333 221/2 Other receiving votes: Oklahoma St. 87, 
Sunday'• Game Illinois 83, Georgia Tech 58, Oklahoma 55, Weo1 All-Stars 135, Eaot All-Stars 132. OT 
W. Kentucky 41, Louisville 28, St. John's Monday'a Game• 20, Michigan St. 19, Southern Meth. 19, 
No gameo lcheduled Connecticut 18, UCLA 16, Boston College 
Tueeday'a Game• 14, Memphis St. 13, Rhode Island 10, New 
Minnesota at New York, 7:30p.m. Mexico 7, Nebraska 6, George Washington 
Portland Ill Orlando, 7:30 p.m. 5, LSU 4, Rice 4, Houston 3, New Mexico 
New Jersey Ill Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. St. 3, Ball St. 2, Iowa St. 2, Miami, Ohio 2, 
Waohlngton Ill Atlanta, 7:30p.m. Old Dominion 2, Syracuse 2, NE Louisiana Miami Ill CIIM!Iand, 7:30 p.m. Philadelphia at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Boeton Ill Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Milwaukee Ill Chicago, 6:30 p.m. Phoenix at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. 
Seattle at Denver, 9 p.m. Houston at Utah, 9 p.m. Sacramento at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
NBA SlATS 
Scoring a FG FT Pie Avg 

Jorden, Chi. 50 827 308 1818 32.3 
Wllklno, All. 40 402 296 1155 28.9 


K. Malone, Utah 51 503 418 1427 28.0 Field Goal Percentage Mullln,G.S. 48 474 183 1191 25.9 FQ FGA Pet Barkley, Phoe. 47 445 282 1212 25.8 Daugherty, Clev. 330 574 .575 Olajuwon, Hou. 51 501 258 1260 24.7 O'Neal, Orl. 438 788 .589 
O'Neal, Orl. 47 438 256 1128 24.0 K. Malone, Utah 503 899 .580 Ewing, N.Y. 49 468 224 1161 23.7 Ceballos, Phoe. 176 317 .555 Robinson, SA 49 404 338 1148 23.4 Brlckowski, Mil. 337 808 .554 Petrovic, N.J. 49 424 239 1146 23.4 Davis, Ind. 189 342 .553 Dumero, Del. 48 415 212 1098 22.9 Thorpe, Hou. 219 398 .550 Johnson, Char. 49 447 207 1118 22.8 Dumao, Phoe. 201 388 .546 Manning, LAC 51 454 235 1146 22.5 Carr, S.A. 204 379 .538 Richmond, Sac. 45 371 197 887 21.9 Nance, Clev. 354 882 .535 Hardaway, G.S. 53 412 218 1117 21.1 Miller, Ind. 51 348 290 1065 20.9 Lewis, Boa. 50 420 106 1043 20.9 Hornacek, Phil. 48 371 181 977 20.4 
~~~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~· 
Make It Happenl SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Positions available on Board of Governance 1993-94: 
Executive Secretary Executive Treasurer Athletic Commissioner Campus Clubs Coordinator Elections Commissioner Ethnic Diversity Chairperson Off-Campus Coordinator Spiritual-Life Commissioner Also, Assistant Treasurer fSABJ and Academic Council Secretary fSACJ 
Please serve Saint Marys with your time, talent and interest Applications available at Haggars front desk starting February 23­Due at 5:00 p.m., Friday, March 5 
SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW WHEN YOU RETURN YOUR APPLICATION 
<.~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;~==~a. 
Tuesday, February 23,1993 
our 

SARASOTA, Fla. (AP) -The off-season could hardly have been busier for Chicago White Sox trainer Herm Schneider. 
Working six days a week through the winter, Schneider worked on the rehabilitation of Bo Jackson and Ozzie Guillen, as well as new club members, starter Dave Stieb and out­fielder Ellis Burks, who both finished 1992 on the disabled list. 
"I haven't had any time for myself or my family. None," Schneider said. "Fortunately, they understand. They know 
The Observer 



ox on t 
I'm trying to do good for some­body." So far, Schneider's rehab cases are coming along. 
Guillen, who had reconstruc­tive knee surgery, is expected to make a full recovery. 
Jackson's progress in trying to come back from hip re­placement surgery included a head-first slide into third base during drills over the weekend. 
Stieb, recovering from elbow tendinitis that ended his 13th season with the Toronto Blue Jays in August, has thrown. 
T 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Graphics Manager Illustrations Manager 

Please submit a one-page stp.tement of intent and a resume to Kevin Hardman by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Kevin at 631-7471 for more information about either osition. 
twice in the last three days, free and easy each time. 
Burks, whose season with the Boston Red Sox ended in June because of recurring back problems, worked out for the first time Sunday. 
"Once the season starts, hopefully I'm out of the picture and these guys are ready to play," Schneider said. "I want to get out the picture and let them play balL I won't win games." 

Schneider's overtime work was recently rewarded with a multi-year contract that also takes into account his 14 years as the team's head trainer. 



1993 Notre Dame Law Review Symposium "The Civil Rights Act of 1991: Theory and Practice" 
February 26th and 27th Notre Dame Law School 
Certified for 8.8 units of Indiana Continuing Legal Education Credit 
All Notre Dame Faculty, Students and Staff Welcome 
Session: 8:00-8:30 a.m. 
1 8:30-9:45 a.m. ( 1.25 credits) 
2 10:00-11:15 a.m. 
(1.25 credits) 

3 11:15-12:30 p.m. (1.25 credits) 
12:45-1:45 p.m. 

4 2:00-3:15p.m. 
(1.25 credits) 

5 3:30-4:45 p.m. (1.25 credits) 
7:00p.m. 

6 8:30-9:45 a.m. 
(1.25 credits) 

7 10:00-11:15 a.m. 
(1.25 credits) 

Friday, February 26th Welcome and Opening Remarks Douglas W. Kmiec, Professor of Law, University ofNotre Dame Law School 
Ronald D. Rotunda, Professor of Law, University of Illinois 
"The Civil Rights Act of 1991: An Introductory Analysis" 

Professor Rotunda will provide a historical review of modern civil rights legislation with a focus on how the 1991 Act is unique. 
Neal E. Devins, Professor of Law, College of William and Mary 

"The Bush Administration and the 1991 Civil Rights Act: An Irresistible Force Meets a Movable Object" 
Professor Devins will compare and contrast the Act with its intended policy goals. 
Glen D. Nager, Partner, Jones, Da:y, Peavis & Pogue, Washington D.C. "Affirmative Action After the Civil Rights Act of 1991 " Mr. Nager will discuss the legal implications of the Act as they relate to employment discrimination litigation and affirmative action programs by business. 
Luncheon 
Marian Haney; Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson, Chicago 
"Utigation of a Sexual Harassment Case: Post Civil Rights Act of 1991" 

Ms. Haney will discuss her experiences with litigating sexual harassment cases under the Act. 
Jules B. Gerard, Professor of Law, Washington University "The First Amendment in a Hostile Environment" Professor Gerard will discuss whether the environmental sexual harassments standards under the 1991 Act violate the 1st Amendment, given recent Supreme court rulings on hate speech. 
Dinner Keynote Speaker: Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., President Emeritus, University ofNotre Dame "My Ufe in Civil Rights" Father Ted will share his decades of personal experience in the civil rights arena. 
Saturday, February 27th Eric Schnapper, Assistant Counsel, NAACP Legal Defense Fun~d "The Discriminatory Creation, Manipulation, Misinterpretation and Myth of Legislative Intent­Reflections on the 1991 Civil Rights Act" Mr. Schnapper will discuss the drafting of the Act and how today's courts are interpreting the Act's original intentions. 
Michael A. Carvin, Partner; Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, Washington D.C. 
"Disparate Impact Claims Under the New Title VII" 

Mr. Carvin will share his experiences regarding the litigation of disparate impact claims under the Act's new standards. 
Fencing 
continued from page 16 

all season. They will have to continue to do so successfully for us to do well in the upcoming open tournament season," said DeCicco. 
The sabre team went 3-2 on the day, thanks mainly to the efforts of senior Bernard Baez, sophomore Chris Hajnik, and sophomore Chris McQuade. Saturday, it was Hajnik leading the sabremen with an 11-4 record, bumping his season count to 50-20. An 8-7 per­formance by Baez moved him to 49-22 on the season. 
The women's team had their best meet of the year, going 4­
0. Freshman Claudette de Bruin and senior Kathleen Vogt fenced to 15-1 performances on Sunday. Freshman Mindi Kalogera recorded a 14-2 mark on the weekend. DeBruin fin­ishes the season at 50-8 while Kalogera ended up 4 7-17. 
"The freshmen completed an impressive season, but Kath­leen Vogt really fenced well, which is important because we need her to fence well and be a leader in the postseason," said women's head coach Yves Au­riol. 
Next weekend, the Irish will travel to East Lansing, Michi­gan to compete in the'Midwest­ern Intercollegiate Champi­onships at Michigan State. There, Notre Dame will face powerful squads such as Illi­nois, Ohio State and Wayne State. 
Loaded Weapon I PG13 
5:15, 7:30. 10:00 The Vanishing R 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Grouncllog Day PG 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
·:··.· 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, February 23,1993 

RecSports office and there will be a captain's meeting February 
25 at 5 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse club will have practi¢e on Sundays from 8-9 p.m. at Loftus. ·· · · · 
Cross country ski rental is available in the Rockne Golf ... Shop. Check out times are 4:30-5:30 p.m. on Thursday; Friday. and Saturday and 12-1 p.m. on Saturday. Cheddn times.ar~ 4:30-5:30 p.m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday and 12~1 on Saturday. 
The Notre Dame Pom Pon squad will be holding an informational meeting regarding tryouts for the upcowing season on February 24 at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. If you have questions, please call Natalie Brohl at 284-4329 or Stacey Tischler at 634-4030. 
NO Crew will have a mandatQry meeting for all rowers on February 24 at 7 p.m. in 119 Haggar Hall. Bring checkbooks. 
Men's volleyball will host Purdue on February :IH at 7:30 
p.m. in the pit of the JACC. On February 27, the team will host a tri·match in the JACC pit featuring Wheaton Colleg~ and Kentucky at 4:30 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. respectively. All ar~ welcome and admission is free. ·.·.. · · 
Cross Country skiing moonlighter tonight at tb.e golf course from 7-10 p.m.. Rentals are $2 and hot choc()late· and instruction is available. Call631-6425 for more information. 
Photo Counesy SMC Spons Information Senior Kristin Crowley stars on Saint Mary's basketball and soccer teams. Crowley led Division Ill women in three-point percentage. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
lnterhall floor hockey referees are need~d~ All.y!)rie interested should call the RecSports office at 631"6tOO. ··· 
Spring break trips to Steamboat, CO are still available tor all interested. For more information, call Chris Boone ofthe ND Ski Club at 273-2958. 
lnterhall lacrosse entries are due by February 24 at th~ 

A good year for two-sport star Crowley 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's basketball star 
senior Kristin Crowley doesn't 
come from a family of athletes, 
nor from a family of doctors for 
that matter. 

Neverless, Crowley has been 
a valuable player on both the 
Belles' soccer and basketball 
teams, while pursuing her off 
court goal to be an orthopedic 
surgeon. 

In basketball this year, Crowley earned the title of be­ing first in the nation for her three-point shooting in NCAA Division III. The co-captain of the Belles hit 62-percent from three-point range in the first half of this season. 
Crowley is enjoying the last season of a college basketball career that was less than dull. She achieved her career high, 29 points with 4 three-pointers, against Bethel College in an overtime win two weeks ago. After losing both of its games last weekend, the team's record is now 14-6. 
Cartwright out, Acres in for Bulls 
CHICAGO (AP) -The Chicago Bulls placed veteran center Bill Cartwright on the injured list Monday and signed Mark Acres to a 10-day contract. 
Cartwright, who missed the last three games with a sore back, will be out for an addi­tional five games. 
He has averagd 5.9 points a game and 3. 7 rebounds this season. 
While Cartwright is out, the Bulls will suit up forward-cen­ter Acres, a 6-11, 225-pound, six-year NBA veteran. 
Acres played two seasons with Boston and three with Or­lando. Houston signed him to a one-year contract last Novem­ber, but waived him in Decem­ber. 

"This year is going to be one of our most memorable sea­sons," Crowley said. "We got along and complemented each other's play really well." 
Crowley and her fellow senior co-captains, Kim Holmes and Julie Snyder, have been through a long road together their four years at Saint Mary's. They have grown to know each other's style and to complement each other in practice as well as in games. 
Crowley and freshman Jenny Taubenheim also complement each other's play very well. 
"(Taubenheim's) a very con­sistent player and an excellent shooter," Crowley said. ''I'll pass her a fast break and she'll finish the play if somebody's off." 
Crowley sees herself as the vocal leader on the court. As a point guard, she feels her most important job is to get the team to play up to its potential. 
"The main objective of a point guard is to run the show," Crowley said. "You have to be vocally not afraid to step up and run things off the court." 
Freshmen teammate Colleen Andrews said, "She brings the team together with her spirit in practice as well as games." 
"She's kind of a spokesperson for the team," Wood said. " Kristin is a coach's dream." 
Crowley realized her own dream for the future, to be an orthopedic surgeon, when she went through physical therapy following a knee injury her sophomore year. She had one goal in mind-to be ready for the soccer season the following year. She returned her junior year to play six games for the soccer team and a full season for the basketball team. 
Last summer, Crowley shad­owed an orthopedic surgeon for her senior composition in her home town of Green Bay, Wis. She plans on taking the year off before going to Medical school. 
Crowley hopes to enjoy her well deserved break. Maybe she will be able to spend some time with her family and teach them how to play a game or two of ball. 
The Observer 
IEWPOINT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editors Viewpoint Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Rolando de Aguiar by 5 p.m., Wednesday, February 24, 1993. Contact Rolando at 631-4541 for more information about either position. 
IC~B~RG D~BAl~S 
riNAlS 


II Resolved, that the United States Congress should
Elections 

ratiN the North American ~ree Trade Agreement.~~ Breen -Phillips 
(Affirmative)
Wednesday 
10 a.m.-2 p.m. 
v.
Lobby of Hayes-Heal All members please 
Sorin
remember to 

(Negative) 
vote! 

The finals will be held at 7:00 P.M. in the Lafortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's). 4~ 


SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

~INt.. 0\lNT Bt.UE'IE \liE. 
\ 

BILL WATIERSON 
-.. 
'!OI.l 51\1\) IT 
'NCl\1\..\) c.o~t: 11'1 lif>-\'-1\)'( WR\1'-\G 
TOI)~'\'S 
It.'SI. 

The Philadelphia Air Quartet 
Crossword 
Edited by Eugene T. Maieska 
ACROSS 35 Simian 
61 Civil t Greenland's 36 Humonst Gelett disturbance colonizer 
62 Black and 5 Of a rank below 39 Self 
lustrous prince 40Gene Kelly 63 Hill near Dublin to Famed mov1e 64 Old woman, in Surrealist Bonn
43 Genu t4 Type of sk1rt 65 Pax, to Plato
44 Cubic meter t 5 Aftersong 66 Cousin of etc. 
45 Pronoun for the 
t6 Spmt lie de France 67 French-Belgian t7 Cake fm1sher river
46 Canonized18 Water wheel 68 Eliot's "cruellest founder of the 
19Abel's b1g brother 20 Song from "My Fa1r Lady" 23 Einstein's  Sisters of Chanty 48 Lamb's dam 49 Alter recesses  month" 69Valley DOWN  
birthplace  50 Ext1nct bird  t Issue  
24 Male turkey  52 Grand--,  2 Affluent  
25 Trunks 28lan's headgear 31 Inconsequential person  Evangeline's home 53 "The Wizard of Oz"song  3 Arrow poison 4 Fleecy cloud 5 Jeans fabric &Atop  
7 Co-Nobelist in  
Medicine: 1947 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Tenms term 9 Slightest tO Leave quickly -7-t-'~~ tt Jai­
again --=-+:,-:+=~ 28 Stale 7:+::::+.::-+=-t 29 Vice President 
before Ford 
30 In Britain, 39.37 inches 
47 Hide -hair 
49 Jackie's second husband 
. :: 
5t Parts of hearts 56 Always 
52 Talk-show 57 Actor Santoni group 
58 Lessen 
59 Doctoral examination 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0112 

an 


FADED? 
Revive your tan with our 
EUROTAN 


tanning beds 1 0 for $3500 or $5QQ per single session 
with student ID Expires 2122193 
Hair 
Cut 

we c.are hair 
1811 South Bend Ave. 271-7674 


Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, February 23,1993 BRIAN 

Frehsman Poor proves Irish rich in depth
KUBICKI 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Playing Around A talented frontcourt has been the main strength of the Notre Dame 1------------------t women's basketball team this season. 
Swimsuit issue 
takes away from Sl's journalistic integrity 
Okay. You've had the weekend to look it over. You've chosen your favorites. Some of you juniors even shared it with your fathers. It's Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue time again. 

.. -
Whnnever the publishers of SI put out their most famous issue, they open themselves up for loads of criticism with some praises mixed in. Most of those who would praise the issue are too busy flipping through it for the hundredth time to write SI a letter. 
I won't lie and say that I didn't look through the pictures. I won't lie and say I didn't enjoy this year's issue. I did both of those things, but I also managed to read an artide or two. 
SI has narned a reputation for insightful and honest sports writing that goes deeper than most local papers. Unfortunately, once a year they sacrilice the journalistic integrity they have come to mpresent. 
Women have sought some sense of balance in the sports realm for many years, and every time Sports Illustrated puts a nearly naked woman on their cover, what1wer work the magazine has done for that equality is erased. 
The magazine is making an effort. It has been giving more time to women's basketball, and tennis, golf, and track and field. All have their share of famous women that Sl helps promote. 
But in the face of Kathy Ireland's curves. any article about the LPGA appears infinitely more boring. Even the fine articles in that very issue were hard to get around to. 
When l did get to read the article about Calbert Cheaney, I was not disappointed. I was, however, struck by the irony. The article noted that Bob Knight keeps a low profile to his team and players by shielding them from the media. 
It seems only fitting then that the artiele about Indiana's star player should be buried in a magazine devoted to "fashion" and not sports. 
For the sake of women, sports, and journalism, Sports Illustrated should get rid of this annual money maker. Their sacrifice could be an example to mnn and a male-dominated society that women deserve respect in sport for their ability not their looks. 
I shouldn't have to explain that I'm picking up Sports Illustrated "just to read the articles." That distinction belongs rightly to Playboy. 
I didn't want this column to sound like the bitter letters that always appear in Sl two weeks after they've released thn Swimsuit Issue. I am not going to cancel my subscription because of thesn pictures. 
I just wanted to convey how counterproductive to their own attempts to promotn womnn in sports Sl is with this single issue. Some day women will be given the respect for thnir aecomplishmnnts on the athletic linld. Until thnn, I will continue to enjoy Sports Illustrated-with or without the models. 
;..iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.;. their seaso n mark to 1 7 -3 by beating 
INSIDE SPORTS 
IISox recovering this Spring see page 
13 IICrowfey stars at SMC seepage14 
UNC, 15-1, Air Force and Navy, 13-3, and Duke, 12-4. 
The men's foil team continued its success, going 5-0 Saturday, beating three teams by a 9-0 score and one team by an 8-1 score. A 5-4 score was needed for the foilists to overcome North Carolina. 
"Our foil team carried us today," said men's head coach Mike DeCicco, "It's a great feeling for them to hit their stride right before the postseason starts. 
And Letitia Bowen has been the cream of the crop. 
But when she missed last Thursday's game against Loyola, the Irish needed someone to step in and fill the void. 
Carey Poor was that person. 
The 6-0 freshman scored a career-high 19 points to lead the Irish to a 7 4-60 win over Loyola. 
"She's been coming on strong lately," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She just needed the opportunity to play more and with Letitia out she got a lot more minutes." 
Her strong play continued Saturday 
The Observer/Margueritte Schropp Center Jon Ross shoots a three-pointer against LaSalle earlier this season. The Ross twins will have the unenviable task of containing the Heels' Eric Montross tonight. 

Fencers return from Durham undefeated 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams ended their dual meet season with undefeated performances last weekend at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. 
The solid performances by all squads, especially the men's and women's foil, ought to provide some momentum for the post-season, which begins next weekend. 
The men improved their record to 23­
1. beating Duke and Navy, 18-9, topping UNC, 16-11, William and Mary, 20-7, and Air Force, 17-10. The women raised Hopefully, our other teams will follow their lead when the postseason starts." 

Leading the way for the Irish were senior Jeff Piper, who was 12-1 on the day, improving his season mark to 45-6, and sophomore Stan Brunner (11-1, 45­11 ). Piper also finished his career at 116-18, placing him eighth on the career wins chart. 
"Jeff has been an excellent fencer for the past four years and has culminated his hard work with a great senior season, both on the trip and in a leadership role," says DeCicco. 
Junior Rian Girard also fenced well, going 12-2 on Saturday and topping the foil team in season wins with a 51-11 record for the season. 
The epee team won three of its five matches, losing to Air Foree and Navy 4­
5. Both junior captain Grzegorz Wozniak and senior Geoff Pechinsky went 7-7 on the day, while senior Per Johnsson finished at 8-7. 
"Although they did not fence particularly well today, Per and Greg have led us against the top competition 
see Fencing/page13 

night against Detroit Mercy. Poor edipsed her previous career high with a 21-point performance as the Irish cruised to another win, 68-55 over the Titans. 


Bowen returned to Carey Poor the lineup to score 14 points. But it was Poor's emergence that has bolstered Notre Dame's already strong frontcourt. 
"{Poor's play) has definitely helped us," McGraw said. "It gives us another solid post player and we are already strong up front." 
But a frontcourt can succeed only if the backcourt can get the ball inside. Early in the season that was a difficult task for Notre Dame as turnovers seemed to plague them in every game. Not anymore. 
UNC awaits slumping NO 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team could have a picked a better opponent to attempt to end their slide against than the North Carolina Tar Heels. 
North Carolina has dimbed to third in the AP polls with a 22-3 record. The Irish are heading in an opposite direction-very quickly. Notre Dame has now lost nine of its last 11 games, including three in a row. 
Last year John MacLeod had upset on his mind when they met the number eight Tar Heels at Madison Square Gar­den. LaPhonso Ellis and Daimon Sweet lit up Carolina, scoring 31 and 30 points, respectively, as the Irish escaped with an 88-76 win. 
The task the Irish have in front of them this year will be tougher. Not only did Notre Dame four seniors from last year, but the Tar Heels are an improved team. They're also playing at home in the Dean Smith Center. 
Not surprisingly for a Dean Smith­coached team, the Tar Heels present a very balanced attack. Seven-foot, 270-lb. center Eric Montross leads the team in scoring at 15.4 points per game, followed closely by 6-8 forward George Lynch, who scores 15.2 points. This pair also does the dirty work inside as the two leading rebounders, at 7.8 and 9.4 rebounds per game, respectively. 
Two other starters-guard Donald Williams and forward Brian Reese-also average double figures in points, both at 10.3. 
Lack of outside shooting may be North Carolina's one weakness. Williams is their only legitimate outside threat, connecting on 40.5 percent of his threes. When opponents are successful in denying the ball to Lynch and Montross 
"I'm really happy with the way we're taking care of the ball," McGraw said. "In our last six games we're probably aver­aging about 15 turnovers a game, which is pretty good for us." 
That improvement will have to continue as post-season play nears. 
Three games remain before the Midwestern Collegiate Conferenee brings its contingent to the Joyce ACC for the post-season tournament. For Notre Dame to win the tournament and the automatic NCAA tournament bid that goes with it, they will have to play six games in 1 0 days. 
''I'm confident about the way the team is playing, but the amount of games we have to play concerns me," McGraw explained. "We need go nine deep and I think we do right now." 
Last week's two wins lift the Irish to 13-10 overall and 9-4 in the MCC. 
Notre Dame va. N. Carolina 
~1~~·-~~~.-~eb.
.

.w~Lar~/re~ 

in the middle, which isn't often, North Carolina is vulnerable. 
The Irish, on the other hand, have had trouble getting the ball insid1~ on a consistent basis. Monty Williams slides into the paint to get some of his team­leading 18.0 points per game, but otherwise Notre Dame struggles to get easy baskets in the lane. 
While both of the Ross twins have been consistently improving, the results have come more on the defensive end of the court. Without a strong inside threat, more pressure is placed on the Irish perimeter game, which hasn't always re­sponded. 
For the Irish to win the game, North Carolina's big men are going to have to be shut down. In addition, Notre Dame's offense needs to break out of its almost season-long shooting slump. 

The Observer/John Bingham Irish fencers ended the regular season on an up note at North Carolina last weekend. 






