

The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 111 MONDAY, MARCH 22, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
CALL challenges University•s prolife commitment 

ND junior hurt in hit-and-run accident near E 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH and NICOLE MCGRATH 
News Writers 
Close to 1 00 pro life activists challenged the University of Notre Dame and its president Father Edward Malloy Friday, claiming that the University has failed to uphold Catholic teach­ings concerning abortion. 
• 
Arrests I page 6 

• 
Hesburgh I page 7 

• 
CALU page 7 


In an eflort to persuade Mal­loy to join the group in prayer for unborn children, members of the national prolife organiza­tion Collegians Activated to Lib­erate Life (CALL) held a peace­ful seven-hour sit-in outside his third floor office. Filling the hallway with hymns and prayers, the group pledged not to leave the building until Mal­loy agreed to meet with them. 
"President Malloy has an obligation as a Catholic leader," said CALL founder Peter Heers. "As a leader of the most illus­trious Catholic University, he must stand in solidarity with the victims of crime." 
"The University of Notre Dame has not done anything to follow the teaching of the Catholic Church. We ask them to stand in solidarity with us," he said. However, a university has the content with the present 
The sit-in came to a close responsibility to present all course," said Heers. "He said he after seven hours when Malloy sides of an issue for debate and is doing other things in other agreed to meet with Heers, discussion, he said. areas. He will take our advice Johnson and two other CALL "The only thing they asked of and think about it." members. me was to pray at a location "In our opinion he has chosen 
The tone of the half hour where abortions are being per­a path of failure," he added. 
meeting was amicable and by formed," he told the Tribune. "I "We did what we wanted to 
no means confrontational, ac­gave them no commitment." do, which was talk to Father 
cording to Dennis Moore, direc­To make a specific commit­Malloy with love in our heart," 
tor of public relations and in­ment would have reduced his he said. "Praise God we got the 
formation at Notre Dame. CALL freedom of action, explained meeting, but pray for Father 
explained their position and Moore. The way a university Malloy." 
again asked Malloy for com­deals with such issues is not the Members of CALL spent Fri­
mitment to their cause. same as how an individual day morning at the Women's 
Malloy told the South Bend deals with them, he said. Pavilion, 2010 Ironwood Circle, 
Tribune that he emphasized to Malloy was "polite" and demonstrating against the 
CALL that Notre Dame is a pro­"kind," according to Heers, but abortions that take place there. 
life institution and always has his response was disappointing. With signs and rosary beads in 
been. "Father Malloy said they are hand, the group circled quietly 

Keough given Laetare medal 
tions before being named During his six-year tenure in president of its foods division in the post, he presided over the
Special to The Observer 
1971. He subsequently became selection of University President president of Coca-Cola USA and Father Edward Malloy
Donald Keough, president 
of the company's Americas following the 35-year tenure of and chief operating officer of Group. He has been president Father Theodore Hesburgh,The Coca-Cola Company and and chief operating officer of University president-emeritus,chairman emeritus of the Uni­The Coca-Cola Company since and officiated at the University's versity of Notre Dame's board 
1981 and chairman of Coca­first-ever presidential in­
of trustees, has been awarded 
Cola Enterprises Inc., the auguration.
the University's Laetare Medal world's largest bottling system, Keough served as national Medal for 1993. Keough will since 1986. He will retire form chairman of the University'srecieve the medal, the oldest these posts in April after having Strategic Moment campaign,
and most prestigious honor 
served two years beyond Coca­which began as the most ambi­given to American Catholics, Cola's usual retirement age. tious fund-raising effort in the 
during Notre Dame's 148th 
The father of five Notre Dame history of American Catholic Commencement exercises on graduates, Keough joined a higher education and concluded March 16. 
University advisory council soon as its most successful. The final "Both Notre Dame and the after his first child's enrollment campaign total-in excess of 
Catholic Church have been 
and subsequently served as $463 million-was more moneybeneficiaries of Don Keough's chairman of the Sorin Society, than had been raised in the thorough commitment and lib­which encourages unrestricted entire previous history of Notre eral sharing of his leadership giving to the University. Elected Dame.
talents," said University Presi­a Notre Dame trustee in 1978, Ironically, Keough also was dent Father Edward Malloy. 
he was awarded an honorary admired during his chairman­"With this bestowal of our 
doctorate by the University at ship for his eloquent readingshighest honor, we demonstrate 
the 1985 commencement of the citations honoring the 
our heartfelt gratitude to Don exercises, the same day his annual Laetare Medal winner. 
as we celebrate his example." 
youngest son received his Keough recently was named 
A 1949 alumnus of Creighton baccalaureate degree. "Irish American of the Year" by University, Keough joined The In October of 1986, Keough Irish America magazine. He Coca-Cola Company in 1950 
was elected chairman of the

and worked in a variety of posi-see KEOUGH I page 4 
University's board. 
in front of the clinic, but no rad­ical action took place. 
Thursday night, Claire John­son, co-president of the ND/SMC Right To Life group, and two other Notre Dame students met with Malloy to invite him to pray at the clinic with them. 
"He was noncommittal," she said. 
After two hours of protest, the group marched in a single file line across South Bend Avenue towards the campus. At this time CALL leader Patrick Mahoney invited the group to join him in the march to Mal­loy's office. 
see PROTEST/ page 4 
Prochoice 
students 

attend rally 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
When pink flyers saying 
"Protect Your Pre(ldom of 
Choice" went up on the Saint 
Mary's campus after spring 
break, Renee Young found 
herself the target of varying 
praise and criticism. 
"We've ··had lots of 
resistance. I've ·had several 
phone calls ranging fro.m 
hang"ups .to being caUed 
'baby killers'."said Young, 
one of four wom1an whose 
name \VM on the Dyer.· 
• The. flyers askeq Sahtt .M~ry's ·pro~choice .st11dent$ Jo join iA a no:tt-:-yiolen' gather~ng in. front of the Women's. ~aviJ.iotlin ~()Uth ·~end this past week. A~.~ cording to the fly(\lts, ~Fan a tical. factions ofthe antH!bortign are coming to South Bend/' . . . · 
"NOW (NationaJ Organization. for Women). contacted faculty before break and spread. w()rd of mouth, aboutthe demon­stration·· befc:u:e break.~ said 
YQung; ... ·. · ·•·. Th~ .main go~l was to keep
.the clinic ope11.• she said~ "It is 
not so we can oJ):ly }UI.ve abOr~ 
tions, buttlleY do so many 
other ....•.. things ·..••• such.. .as. 
pregnancy testing/ birth 
~ontrol. andfamily planning." 
. ~f\ lot o} Saint. Mary's and 
Notte D().me .women ·do .use 
that clinic althol,lgh the 
schools are reluctant to admit 
it," she said. 
Some Saint Mary's students 
approached Young and told 
her they approyed of wha,~ 
see PAOCHOICE/ page 6 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH Saint Mary's Editor 
A Notre Dame junior was struck by a car in a bit-and ­run accident on Ivy Rd. early Saturday morning. 
James Irwin, a Flanner Hall resident, was hit just north of Edison Road in front of the Jamison Inn at 2:59 a.m., ac­cording to the Saint Joseph County Police. 
Irwin was walking from the Linebacker Lounge to Turtle Creek Apartments with four friends when a car swerved off the road and hit him. 
He said that one of his friends turned around and saw the automobile and another dove out of the path of the car before Irwin was struck by the vehicle. 

Joseph Medical Center where 
he was treated for minor in­juries and released. 
Irwin said that his friends did get the licence plate number of the car that hit him. 
No charges have been filed in connection with the accident, according to the Police. 
Further information from the Saint Joseph County Police was unavailable at this time. 


page 2 Monday, March 22, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Eating disorders: 
Still a problem on these campuses 
You wouldn't know it's a problem here because no one really talks about it. 
It's not something you see or something you hear about. 
No one talks about it, especially the ad­

ministrations. but Jenny Marten eating disorders are a Associate Sports serious problem at 
Editor
Notre Dame and at Saint Mary's. -------­Part of the reason for it is that these schools 
are made up of highly competitive over­achieving individuals who want to be as perfect as they can. 
The problem is confined neither to Notre Dame nor Saint Mary's. It is present on both campuses, but it is never addressed or acknowledged on either. Women on both sides of the street are destroying their bodies through poor eating habits, starvation, regurgitation and over-exercising. 
These women won't admit that they have a problem, but all of them know that what they are doing is not normal. Although they allude to the problems they think they have, they will never openly acknowledge them. 
Society is a major cause of these problems. This has never been more apparent to me then over Spring Break. I went to Florida to stay with my mom's parents, and my 60-something-year­old grandma told me that she was dieting because she wanted a body like Barbie (she was serious). 
What sort of culture do we live in when a plastic doll, who if life-size would be completely misproportioned, is an ideal for women? 
I'll admit that my body is not close to perfect, and there are times when I really don't like it, but I realize that no one is really happy with the way they look. Plus, I really like to eat. I enjoy food. 
My purpose in writing this column is not to slam the schools for not addressing the problem or to proclaim my own well-adjustedness or to start a full-scale boycott of Barbie dolls. Rather, I want women on both campuses to acknowledge that problem exists. 
_The mo~t important way to combat eating d1sorders 1s for those who have them to admit they have them. Only when a woman admits that she has an eating disorder can she begin to solve the problem. 
Eating a muffin and a small bowl of plain pasta with a glass of water all day is not healthy. As women, we need calcium every day, and if we don't get that calcium the detriments could be life long. 
Not only should the women who eat like this realize that they are starving themselves and weakening their bodies, but their friends should approach them if they think a problem exists. 
If a friend or a roommate is exhibiting signs o an eating disorder, do not ignore it. Question her about it and talk to her about it until she admits that she does have a problem. 
Eating disorders won't begin to go away unless we realize that they are there. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff 

News 
Sports
Becky Barnes George Dohrmann Lisa Wolter 
ViewpointProduction 
Rolando de Aguiar Cynthia Ehrhardt 
Whitney Sheets 
Graphics 
Chris Mullins 
Accent 
Kenya Johnson 

Lab Tech 
Dave Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Fnday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
~""~.._,...,._, ... 1.... ...................1..6 .. ..1 n ........ All .....................: ... ..
---t....... ..,c 


WEATHER REPQR~ ·•·• Eor~q~st !Brpoon,Monday,March 22 
: ··:·:.:::::=:= ::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::::=:::== :·= :··· ·.·:;:.:;:;:;.;:: ·:.::::·:::~:::::::::::::i:::~:H~r)::: .: :::::.. · 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H 
HIGH 

© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
:louth Bend 46 30 
rokyo 54 39 
Nashington, D.C. 57 36 
FORECAST 
60 percent chance of rain and snow today with highs in the 30's.SO percent chance of light rain tonight and tomorrow. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  35  27  
Atlanta  65  46  
Bogota  66  45  
Cairo  68  48  
Chicago  41  29  
Cleveland  38  34  
Dallas  68  49  
Detroit  41  34  
Indianapolis  47  34  
Jerusalem  61  41  
London  55  45  
Los Angeles  74  59  
Madrid  70  46  
Minneapolis  35  25  
VIascow  43  36  
~ashville  64  46  
~ew Vorl<  48  34  
,oris  61  46  
'hiladelphia  50  35  
~orne  88  50  
>eattle  61  46  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Mitterrand defeated in election 
•PARIS -Fed up with scandals and unemployment, French voters handed the right a huge victory in first-round elections for parliament and left President Francois Mitterrand's ruling Socialists in tatters. The voting Sunday marked a historic catastrophe for the left, exceeding all predictions. Ecologists failed to attract voters who rejected the Socialists and the governing party's total fell below 20 percent. 'The sanction has fallen: it reflects the wear-and­tear of time, of unemployment, of disappointment. This punishment has been harsh," Socialist party leader Laurent Fabius said. Socialist popularity has dwindled due to persistent unemployment, which has doubled to 3 million people since 1981; a series of scandals, including the state bealth system allowing hemophiliacs to receive transfusions of AIDS-tainted blood; and racial tension be­tween French whites and Arab immigrants. 
NATIONAL 
.ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -Three women told "60 Minutes" Sunday that a Roman Catholic archbishop who resigned this week sexually assaulted them years ago 
OF INTEREST 
• 
A job search orientation for juniors will be held this afternoon from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. The presentation is designed to give an overview of the types of activities involved in preparing a job search in their senior year and how the Career and Placement services office can assist in this process. 

• 
Marketing and Communications Career Exploration Night will be held tonight from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in the SMC dining hall. Twenty area professionals will be there to discuss careers in marketing and communications fields. 


• Auditions for faculty-directed one acts "Sister 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 19 
Not Available 
when they were teen-agers. Sanchez, 59, the nation's first Hispanic Catholic archbishop, submitted his resignation Friday to Pope John-Paul II. He had headed the Archdiocese of Santa Fe since 1974. Sanchez's archdio­cese notified the Vatican on March 8 that allegations have been made that the archbishop had sexual relationships with as many as five women during the 1970s and '80s. That same day Sanchez issued a public apology for any harm or disappointment the allegations caused. lie didn't specifically confirm or deny any of the allegations. 

trial 
•LOS ANGELES -The Police Department is amassing more than $1 million in riot gear and asking officers to put off vacations until after the Rodney King beating trial, as it prepares for possible violence after the verdict. "I sincerely hope that this is a plan that we never have to pull off the shelf," Chief Willie Williams said as he discussed anti-riot plans at a recent meeting with homeowners in the Sherman Oaks area. Last week Williams told a radio program that 7,000 of the department's 7,691 sworn officers would be available to respond to any trouble after the verdict is announced. Police were criticized for being unprepared when the acquittal of four officers of most brutality charges set off riots last spring that killed 54 people and caused $1 billion in damage. 
Mary Ignatius, Stalag 69", or "II Fornicazione", auditions will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in room 16 Regina Hall. No preparation is required and interested designers and stage managers are also invited. For more information call James Birdner at 284-4644. 
• 
A memorial liturgy for Pasquerilla West senior Tara Deutsch will be held this afternoon at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

• 
Jesuit International Volunteer representative, Father Vincent DeCola will be on campus today at the esc to interview seniors who have applied to this program. If you have applied, or are interested, please call the esc at 634-5293 and make an appointment. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1901: Japan proclaimed it was determined to prevent Russian encroachment near Korea. 

• 
In 1915: In Poland, Russians took Premsyl after a 194-day siege and resumed advances through Carpathian Mountains. 

• 
In 1933: FOR signed a bill legalizing beer and wine. 

• 
In 1969: Doctors in Houston performed the first transplant of the human eye. 

• 
In 1972: The U.S. Senate passed the Equal Rights Amendment. 

• 
Five years ago: Thousands of striking workers in Manila blockaded the gates of a U.S. military base. 


Monday, March 22, 1993 The Observer 
Feigl: Stereotypes need to end 
By COLLEEN HAGEN News Writer 
Ending stereotypes of the "typical" women's college stu­
dent is necessary to improve enrollment at women's col­I e g e s • according to Dorothy Feigl. 


Saint Mary's Dorothy Feigl
assistant vice president and dean of faculty. 
Feigl was one of two keynote speakers Saturday during Saint Mary's first annual Women's College Appreciation Day. 
The existing stereotypes por­tray women as liberal feminists, rich and beautiful, mousey and withdrawn, or career-driven. she said. Most high school girls do not see themselves fitting into any of these categories, she continued. 
Fiegl emphasized the impor­tance of going to a women's col­lege and its relevance in the work world. She also expressed concern that there are only 84 women's colleges remaining in the United States. 
Fiegl suggested the way to at­tract high school students to single sex colleges is to send more women's college students to high schools and provide positive role models for them. 
A way to provide positive role 
Club Column 
MARCH 22, 1993 

1) All Clubs.•• Any group which has not signed up for meeting times or that missed their meeting must sign up for another time. Sign up sheets are on the bulletin board outside the Club Coordination Council Office. Social Service/Action groups must sign up for times during Bill Updike's and Frank McGeehee's office hours which are Tuesday 12:30-3:30 p.m. (Bill) and Tuesday 8-10 p.m. (Frank). Come by and sign up! Also, Social Service/Action groups now have mailboxes out­side the Club Coordination Council at 631-4078 or Jennifer Blanchet at 634-4975. Remember to check your mailboxes. 
2) Last Day To Access Club Funds Is Aprll15... Plan accordingly. See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 
3) Toastmasters International will meet on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in 12C Hayes-Healy. 
4) The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development will be sponsoring a spring forum, Business in the Context of Latin American Development, "Growth in the Making" on Thursday, March 25th at 7:30p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. Members are required to attend, but everyone is welcome and encouraged to come and hear from experts on Latin American Development. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
models is for students to repre­sent their alma mater well when they graduate, she said. When students first graduate from college, their undergrad­uate degree represents them. but, as time goes on, their ac­tions and accomplishments will reflect back upon their school, she continued. 
The day's first speaker, Mary Lauck. a 1979 graduate of Saint Mary's and a "professional vol­unteer," said her experience at Saint Mary's was "life shaping, a monumental experience." After Saint Mary's, she decided to make a job out of volunteer work. 
Her list of accomplishments includes mother, army reserve captain, teacher, foster parent, founder of Hypatia Day and the Director of Programs and De­velopment at Saint Matthew's Cathedral in South Bend. 
Her advice to current Saint Mary's students is to "never underestimate the volunteer experience." 
Women's College Appreciation Day was sponsored by Student League for Women's College and Board of Governance. 
Don•t forget: March is energy conservation month. 

-Meet Your Arts and Letters Major-
Date and Time 
Sunday, March 21, 1993 7:00-8:00 8:00-9:00 
Monday. March 22, 1993 5:00-6:00 6:00-7:00 
7:00-8:00 8:00-9:00 

Tuesday, March 23,1993 5:00-6:00 
6:00-7:00 
7:00-8:00 
8:00-9:00 

Wednesday, March 24, 1993 5:00-6:00 
6:00-7:00 
7:00-8:00 

Thursday, March 25, 1993 5:00-6:00 
6:00-7:00 
7:00-8:00 
Major 
English German & Russian 
African-American Studies Art, Art History & Design European Studies Government Latin American Studies 
Sociology Romance Languages Hesburgh Program History GOTH Medieval Studies Gender Studies Economics American Studies Medievai/Mid-East Studies 
Music CAPP Classics Anthropology Theology Film & Cultural Studies Psychology Asian Studies 
STV ALPP Peace Studies Philosophy Education Soviet & European Studies PPE 

Place 
114 O'Shaughnessy 215AO'Shaughnessy 
215A O'Shaughnessy 200 Riley 207 O'Shaughnessy 116 0'Shaughnessy 207 O'Shaughnessy 
217 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 218 O'Shaughnessy 217 O'Shaughnessy 218 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 217 O'Shaughnessy 218 O'Shaughnessy 218 O'Shaughnessy 208 O'Shaughnessy 
103 Crowley 217 O'Shaughnessy 219 O'Shaughnessy 215A O'Shaughnessy 215A O'Shaughnessy 207 O'Shaughnessy 215AO'Shaughnessy 207 O'Shaughnessy 
2170'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 2180'Shaughnessy 217 O'Shaughnessy 114 O'Shaughnessy 2170'Shaughnessy 2180'Shaughnessy 
Special to The Observer 

Six people have been elected to the University of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
The four elected to the regu­lar trustee positions are Kath­leen Andrews, vice president of Universal Press Syndicate; John Jordan. founder of the New York City investment firm and the Chicago-based holding company bearing his name; Phillip Rooney, president and chief operating officer of Waste Management, Inc; and John Sander, chairman of the board of governors of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 
Two others were elected to three-year trustee positions re­served for recent graduates of the University. They are Catherine David, senior mar­keting assistant for Target Stores in Minneapolis, and Marty Rodgers. a legislative as­sistant in the office of Sen Har­ris Wofford. D-Pa. in Washing­ton D.C. David is a 1985 gradu­ate in marketing, and Rodgers a 1988 graduate in economics. 
Kathleen Andrews, who holds a 1963 master's degree from 
page 3 
Notre Dame, was a co-founder with her late husband, James, of Universal Press Syndicate. She established the Andrews Memorial Scholarship Fund at Notre Dame. She has been a member of Notre Dame's advisory council for the Institute for Church Life. 
John "Jay" Jordan graduated from Notre Dame with a busi­ness degree in 1969. In 1982 he founded The Jordan Com­pany, a private investment firm. He has been a member of the College of Business Admin­istration advisory council. 
Phillip Rooney joined Waste Management in 1969 and held several executive positions leading to his current post in 1984. He has also served as a member of the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Engineering. 
Jack Sander is serving a record seventh term as chair­man of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's board of governors. He assumed the chairmanship again in 1991. Sander is a 1968 graduate and benefactor of the Notre Dame Law School and has served on its advisory council. 


page 4 
Seven cult members leave Waco compound 
WACO, Texas (AP) -At least seven more Branch Davidian cult members left the group's armed compound Sunday, a quickening tempo or releases that the FBI said is a positive sign. 
"The quicker it picks up, the better the situation is, and we're getting more and more out," said FBI agent Richard Swensen. 
The first of the seven -two women -left the compound shortly after midnight. Two more women followed them out late Sunday morning and a man and two women left in the afternoon, authorities said. 
Also, at about midday a school bus was seen moving into the compound area, and a short time later a bus left the area with one passenger. But federal authorities wouldn't immediately say if that was yet another cult member leaving the compound. 
Branch Davidian leader David Koresh and his followers have been holed up inside the compound since a Feb. 28 shootout between cult members and agents with the 
Keough 

continued from page 1 
serves on the boards of a num­ber of national charitable and civic organizations and, with Father llesburgh and Notre Dame trustee Jane Pfeiffer, has been a member of the Knight Foundation Commission on the reform of intercollegiate athlet­ics. 
The Laetare (pronounced Lay-tah-ray) Medal is so named because its recipient is an­nounced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent on the Church calendar. "Laetare," the Latin word for "rejoice," is the first word in the entrance antiphon of the Mass that Sunday, which antic­ipates the celebration of Easter. The medal bears the Latin in-
federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. 
At about 11 a.m., Rita Hiddle, 35, and Gladys Ottman, 67, were whisked away in a red car. One woman acknowledged a row of news reporters with a slight smile as the car sped by. Both refused to talk to reporters at the McLennan County Jail. 
About 2:30 p.m., James Lawten, 70; Sheila Martin, 46; and Ofelia Santoyo, 62, left the compound, said FBI agent Sharon Smith. They were also taken to jail. 
Earlier, about 12:30 a.m., Victorine Hollingsworth, 59, and Annetta Richards, 64, left the compound, Swensen said. Ms. Hollingsworth was taken to Hillcrest Baptist Medical Center for an examination because of a heart condition. 
A'i with other adults released from the compound, the women were expected to be detained as material witnesses. 
FBI officials have said for several days there were 20 to 30 people who were close to leaving the compound. 
scription, "Magna est veritas et prevalebit"-"The truth is mighty and it shall prevail." 
Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the Laetare Medal was conceived as an American counterpart of the Golden Rose, a papal honor which precedes the 11th century. The medal has been awarded annually at Notre Dame to a Catholic "whose genius has enobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the heritage of hu­manity." 
Among the 114 previous re­cipients of the Laetare Medal are Civil War General William Rosecrans, operatic tenor John McCormask, President John Kennedy, Ambassador Clare Boothe Luce, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day, novelist Walker Percy, and evangelist Sister Thea Bowman. 

~lQ~~ ~.~1-kc~ ~i~;~:~~~gSt. Huurs ~~~~.;n~~~;~;~·m. 
• f.. (219) 255·5274 Sunday 12:30-7 p.m. New, Healthy Korean Menu! Lunch Buffet: Tues·Fri II:30-2 p.m. $4.95 all you can eat. Open Sunday for Dinner Buffet: 12:30-7 p.m. All you can eat. Includes: braised hot pork, chob chae, sweet and sour pork, soups, appetizers, salads, fruits and desserts. All for only $8.50. 
FRESHMAN Come to Our Open House TONIGHT From 6:30 to 7:30p.m. in RM 226 of the Computing Center and Math Bldg.  
FIND OUT ABOUT OUR MATH PROGRAMS!  
Sponsored by the Department of Mathematics  

The Observer Monday, March 22, 1993 

Protest 
continued from page 1 
In the abortion issue, "there are two great evils," he said. "The first is pagans killing chil­dren, the greater evil is Chris­tians doing nothing. Christians are standing here while chil­dren die." 
"President Malloy must be held publicly accountable," added Johnson. 
However, Moore said the University did not need to de­fend itself. 
"The University and Presi­dent Malloy are routinely pro­life in their activities," he said. "There is no legitimate basis for their claim." 
To support their argument that the Notre Dame has aban­doned the prolife cause, CALL cited the University's awarding noted prochoice activist Senator Daniel Moynihan the prestigious Laetare Medal. They also referred to speakers such as Reverend Jesse Jackson and President Bill Clinton, also prochoice supporters. 
"Notre Dame is a Catholic in­stitution," said Moore. "It fol­lows the tenants of the Church. But it is also a University which fosters public discussion." 
Moore pointed out that the University had also invited many prolife speakers to the campus. He mentioned former President George Bush as well a number of individuals on CALL's own speaker list. 
CALL also criticized Notre Dame's stance on abortion by noting the existence of an abortion clinic just blocks away from the University. 
"If Notre Dame cared, it would not be here," said John­son. "Notre Dame runs South Bend. It has an enormous in­fluence over the city." 
Moore called this claim "nonsense." 
"According to the Supreme Court, abortion is legal. Abor­tion is legal in the city of South Bend. We have no legal claim to force the closing of the clink," he explained. "It is no reflection upon the University. It doesn't mean we don't care about the issue." 
Johnson emphasized that the demonstration was not an offi­cial Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Hight To Life event. Students who participated in the day's activities acted independently as CALL supporters. 
The CALL demonstration was not in agreement with the rules of DuLac, according to Assistant Vice President of Student AfTairs William Kirk. It was neither registered with the Assistant for Residence Life, nor was it organized by an official University-recognized organization. 
Although it was a peaceful demonstration that did not in­fringe upon the freedom of the University community, it was still prohibited by DuLac. 
The Office of Residence Life will determine repercussions for Notre Dame students who participated in the event, said Kirk. 

SCHYLEEN QUALLS 
IS THE LAST WORD! 
Wednesday, March 24 
7:00p.m. 

Carroll Auditorium 
"THE LAST WORD" 
is a thought provoking dramatization of African ...American poetry and prose. 
"Schyleen Qualls: A treasure, a flower, a trump, a hum-dinger of a word slinger, a corker of a talker, a heller of a storyteller, dawn's first light, and a downright delight." KEN KESEY 
Author. "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' 
SPONSORED BY MINT OFFICE SAB 
Join us for a "VIBRANT, EXCITING, & ENERGETIC" Performance 

Summer at Loyola First Session 6 weeks beginning May 24 Second Session 6 weeks beginning July 6 • Day, evening or weekend classes. • Courses in Business, Arts and Sciences, Education, Nursing. • All courses applicable to Loyola University degrees. • Classes at Loyola's Mallinckrodt Campus in Wilmette, as well as at the Lake Shore, Water Tower and Medical Center Campuses. • Register using any Touch-Tone telephone. To receive your free copy of the 1993 Bulletin of The Summer Sessions, return coupon or call (312) 915-6501. The Summer Sessions LOYOLA 820 N. Michigan Avenue > t!=< UNIVERSITY Chicago. IL 60611·2196 ~ ' ' ~ CHICAGO > 00 {3''!>~Af.p~" r-Tbe-;~r~i::------------I I Loyola Univenity Chicago I 820 N. Michigan AvenueI Chicago. IL 60611·2196 I I II Name I I I I Address I I I I City Stale Zip NO IL LoyolaJ!.!t~u!!.£perunity ~c.!!£.1"/employer:...,____ __:J  ND German Summer Language Institute Tune 21--August 4, 1993 The Notre Dame German Summer Language Institute offers an intensive summer program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9language credits at $130 per credit hour(!) in small, lively classes taught with imagination. The professors are experienced in offering concentrated, yet personalized instruction. Recent NO graduates benefit from a 50% reduction in tuition. Learn The Language of the 90ies German Feature Films/Soaps Videos/interactive Video/ComputersNideo Discs Daily Tutorial in State of the Art Language Laboratory Tuition Savings/Personal Attention Imaginative Instruction/Lively Classroom Atmosphere/Experienced Professors Classes Offered (three credits each): GE 101 Beginning German I: first 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Intensive introduction to German for students with no or minimal background. GE 102 Beginning German II: second 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE 101. GE 103 Beginning German Ill: third 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE 102. Fulfills ND language requirement.Taught daily 9 ·11 a.m., tutorial at 1 p.m. GE 240 Conversational German (3cr.). A course for students of all ages with some background in German (101/102= elementary, or equivalent). Emphasis on conversation, speaking fluency and comprehension, using interactive video discs together with accompanying textbook. Communicate effectively and appropriately in a range of common situations and for a variety of purposes. Fulfills ND language requirement. Taught T/Th, 7·9:30 p.m. Application forms may be obtained by writing to: Summer School Director, 312 Main Building, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Monday, March 22, 1993 
Saint Mary's holds Hypatia Day events 
By JENNIFER HABRVCH Saint Mary's Editor 
Over 100 area seventh 
graders, their parents and 50 
Saint Mary's students partici­
pated in Hypatia Day this Sat­
urday at Saint Mary's to pro­
mote the study of math and 
science by girls. 
Tobi Laren, a Le Mans Hall junior who participated in the event, said that the day was successful. 
Laren helped the girls make silly putty and slime during the hands-on sessions in the chem­istry lab. 
"They were really excited and it was neat seeing them realize that chemistry wasn't just test tubes, but it is related to the real world," said Laren. 
Parents who participated said that they enjoyed the day and the reminder that they need to be involved in their daughters education. 
"It was a good reminder of ways I need to get involved to make sure my daughter is on the right track to college," said Martha Detlefsen, the mother of a seventh grader from Edison Middle School in South Bend. 
Many of the parents said that what they liked most about the program was that it targeted such a young group. 
"I never thought about it be­fore, but the choices they make 
Attention Juniors 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 7:00p.m. 120 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 1 02~ B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
at this age open and close the 
doors for later on in life," said 
Kathryn Henke, whose daugh­
ter attends Pierre Moran Mid­
dle School in Elkhart. 
The hands-on session in 
which students participated in 
laboratory and classroom 
demonstrations led by Saint 
Mary's students was the fa­
vorite part of the day for the 
seventh graders. 
Rachel Sefton, a student a 
Wanatah Junior High, said that 
learning to take a person's 
blood pressure and how to read 
a thermometer were two of the 
things she learned in nursing 
class which she really enjoyed. 
''I'm planning to be a nurse when I grow up, and I learned a lot," she said. 
Heather Beecher, also a sev­enth grader at Wanatah Public School, said that while she has always enjoyed math, after the day she believes she will prob­ably study math when she is in college. 
Hypatia Day was initiated in response to reports such as the American Association of Uni­versity Women's "Changing Schools that Shortchange Girls," which claims that girls do not receive as much atten­tion and encouragement in the classroom as boys. 
Hypatia Day was sponsored by Miles, Incorporated of Elkhart and Saint Mary's Col­le e. 

The Observer page 5 
--~-~·, 

The Observer/Eric Ruethling Saint Mary's students Tobi Laren (on left) and Denise Frantonius (right), both of Le Mans Hall, assist junior high school students in a hands-on session during Hypatia Day Saturday. The event was held at Saint Mary's in order to encourage women's advancement in math and science. 
Page: Quality education offers opportunity 
By JASON WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
Installing quality, public edu­cation with the help of groups and individuals from the private sector is essential in providing intellectual opportunities for students, said Justice Alan Page. 
Page, a justice on the Min­nesota Supreme Court and 1967 graduate, recounted his personal experiences in wit­nessing the disillusion of young students in American schools. 
''I'm not sure when children begin to lose hope, but I have seen it happen," Page said. 
"They see themselves slipping into the huge underclass that our society seems to tolerate." 
Page has personally taken initiative with the apparent disintegration of confidence in young students by establishing the Page Education Foundation, a program designed to assist minority and other disad­vantaged youth with post-sec­ondary education. 
He said the most important aspect of helping students re­tain their interest in education lies in giving minority and dis­advantaged students a sense of purpose in the classroom. 
"We must make changes be­fore they give up on the system and make sure the system doesn't give up on them," Page said. "I think the best way to do this is through education." 
Page said everyone else who believes in America's education system, should use their own 
You may be Tools 

but we love you anyway! 
story as a role model for all students. Page pursued his law degree from the University of Minnesota while at the same time playing professional foot­ball for the Minnesota Vikings. 
Page told law students that learning just begins when they pass the Bar Exam and enter into the work force. Channeling efforts towards preparation will enable them for activities in the courtroom, he said. 
"Preparation is critical for success," he said. "Even if your fears cause you to stumble, good preparation will pick ·you up." 
He continued that the rigors of law school do not disappear once students enter the work force. The toughest part of be­ing a lawyer lies in deciphering the vast realms of facts and evidence which can often ques­tion their beliefs as individuals, he added. 

page 6 The Observer Monday, March 23, 1993 
Abortion Demonstration 
ND and SMC students arrested in demonstration 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
News Editor 
Three Notre Dame students and one Saint Mary's student were arrested Saturday in Merrillville, Ind. for partidpat­ing in a "rescue" at a Planned Parenthood clinic. 
Regina Hall sophomore Lori Dickinson, Pasquerilla East sophomore Kelly Dwight, Farley Hall junior Claire Johnson. and Cavanaugh Hall freshman Hobert Schlosser were among approximately 50 members of Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL), a midwestern pro­life organization, who at­tempted to close down the clinic for the day by locking arms and blocking all entrances to the facility. · 
In addition, Notre Dame graduate students Mary Lalli and Michael Sheliga acted as "prayer supporters." These students were on site to silently offer support to the group, according to Johnson, co­president of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life group. 
In a standard rescue, pro-life protestors try to reach the site before clinic employees, ex­plained Johnson. They position themselves in front of the doors, pray, and do not let any­one through. At the same time, "sidewalk counselors" ap­proach potential clinic clients with alternatives to abortion, she said. 
The rescue activity is "a non­violent, prayerful attempt to save the lives of children," said Johnson. "We place our bodies between the abortionist and the mothers." 
The group arrived in Merril­lville at about 7:15a.m. Central 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
S1()()() 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI PLUS $1000 FOR TilE MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. And aFREE 
IGLOO COOLER 
if you qualify. Call 
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
Indian R1dge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 
Standard time and blocked the four doors of the clinic. 
By 10:45 a.m. the police be­gan to move protesters out of the way of the doors and arrest them. "It went a lot faster than we wanted it to," said Dwight. "We would have liked to have been at the clinic longer." 
During the process of arrest, many of the demonstrators re­ceived poor physical treatment, said Schlosser. 
"It seemed as if they wanted to be as expedient as possible," he said, "even if that meant actually throwing people into the paddywagons." 
"I was treated roughly, but I expected that," said Dickinson, president of Saint Mary's Right to Life. "They were trying to get us out as quickly as possible and though we did not fight them, we hoped to stay as long as possible." 
The protestors were taken to the Department of Public Works building where they were held for about one hour, said Johnson. 

Prochoice 
continued from page 1 she was doing. "They said they were scared for me," she said. Fear was also on the mind of senior Delia Garcia last Friday morning. "There was an initial feeling, anticipation of violence. I'd be lying if I didn't say I was a little scared." said Garcia."With the doctor in Pensacola being shot, I didn't know what to expect." For her, action and belief are tied together, Garcia said. It was positive seeing Saint Mary professors on the line as well, she added. Students drove to the clinic where they met with Saint Mary's faculty. It was "weird" to see Saint Mary's professors at the clinic, said Young. "There was a community spirit throughout the whole thing," said Young. Although it was 6:30 a.m. and chilly weather, some people passed out doughnuts and bought thermal socks for the pro­choice demonstrators. "I kind of felt strange because it seemed like some people, on both sides, wanted a big show," she said. "I was kind of scared 
"They said they were scared for me." 
--Saint Mary's students to Renee Young, prochoice activist 

of those few people who wanted to be radical, chanting." 
Both sides need to practice some respect, according to Young. She referred to an inci­dent where three pro-lifers walked in a circle holding a sign saying "Unborn babies feel pain," and some of the pro­choice demonstrators began following them around chanting and yelling. 
Hespect was something lack­ing at Saint Mary's campus ear­lier in the week, said Garcia. ''I'm kind of disappointed in the fact that our voice was being limited because people were ripping our flyers down." 
What bothered Garcia was that the women who tore down the signs knew her, she said. 
Since she lives in a small sec­tion of Le Mans Hall, the people who did it were aware of who she is. 
Both Garcia and Young agree that this is an important time for students to become active. 
"I think that this is a wonder­ful opportunity to stand up for what you believe. You have to act now; to voice your opinion," said Young. 
Garcia stressed, "It doesn't matter what side a Saint Mary's student falls on but they should get involved. Take some ac­tion." 
According to the flyer, Saint Mary's pro-choice supporters will be showing their support two more times this week, March 23 and 26. 

O'MALLEY AWARD 
1993 UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER Of _THE YEAR AWARD 
•

what IS I·r?. 
Each year a committee of students represent­ing all years and majors decide which under­graduate prof has best dedicated his/her time and effort to classroom teaching. The chosen prof wins an award of $1 000. 
an students nominate the profs? 
YES! Forms for nominating your favorite and most deserving profs wiiJ, be available in the 
Student  Government  Offic~  2nd  floor  of  
Lafortune starting Fri.  March  19.  They will  
be  due by Wed.  March  31 .  

and 

Monday, March 23, 1993 The Observer page 7 
"The probelem is not prochoice ... but can you use your
Abortion Demonstration 
freedom to kill other human beings?" --Father Hesburgh 
CALL holds prolife conference 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH News Editor 
For a number of college stu­dents in the Midwest, this year's spring break has not been typical. 
Nearly 70 students from a 10­state area joined Collegians Ac­tivated to Liberate Life (CALL) in South Bend this week for "Agape in Action," a two-week prolife conference including speakers, rallies, demonstra­tions and several "rescues." 
The organization's communi­cation center claims the confer­ence follows "revolutionary prolife mission in the South Bend area's churches and Christian communities," a mission that is a reflection of the group itself. 
According to the CALL phi­losophy "as Christians we must sacrifice; we must love one an­other. This means giving our lives if we have to," said Claire Johnson, co-president of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life group and CALL affiliate. 
For CALL, such giving has manifested itself even from the beginning. 
Peter Heers, a student at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, began the nondenom­inational group two years ago. CALL's leadership team is currently comprised of seven core members, including Heers. However, the organization also boasts of hundreds of affiliates in the midwestern region. 
In terms of affiliates, this year is CALL's biggest year yet, said Johnson. 

While in South Bend, the group has provided a "prayerful presence," she said. They have conducted peaceful protests at both the Women's Pavilion, 2010 Ironwood Circle, and the University of Notre Dame. 
On Thursday, March 18, a number of CALL members chained themselves to each other and to the abortion clinic. All 18 protesters were arrested. Eight were released the same day, but the rest were not re­leased until Friday or Saturday. 
The final week of the "Agape in Action" schedules much of the same. With speakers rang­ing from testimonies of suc­cessful sidewalk counselors to rallies such as "Love your neighbor as Yourself," CALL's "alternative spring break" con­tinues. 
Hesburgh remembers former protests 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's News Editor 
A sit-in is a rare occurrence on the Notre Dame campus, but for five consecutive years in the 1960's, it was an everyday event, said Father Theodore Hesburgh,


P r e s i d e n t Fr. Hesburgh emeritus. "The student revolution was happening all over the country. All over, students were destroy­ing offices. That is not the way to do business," he said. The Vietnam War was the only time young people taught the older people a lesson in the United States, said 1-Iesburgh. At Notre Dame, Hesburgh said his students always held back a bit because they could 
never claim, "We (the adminis­tration) weren't available." 
"We had a policy that you do have an administration that you can talk to about a problem. As far as I knew, everyone around here is open," he said. "A uni­versity must be civil." 
When it seemed that the Notre Dame students were nearing violence, Hesburgh said he announced some clear restrictions. 
"My rules were to be non-vio­lent, don't impede on another's education and don't try to co­erce others by violent means," he stated. If those rules were broken, students were either suspended or expelled. 
While some students did protest and hold sit-ins, l-Ies­burgh said he did not partici­pate but he also did not criti­cize. "You ought to fight with a mind and a moral persuasion," he added. 

Hesburgh thinks CALL orga­nized Friday's prayer sit-in be­cause they wanted publicity for their own agenda. 
"They think of the University as a bulldozer. We think of the University as a great per­suader," he said. "A university must attack problems in a moral, intellectual way; in its own way." 
Hesburgh said he recognizes different ways of approaching a problem. The University has had conferences and published books which clearly show that Notre Dame is against abortion, said Hesburgh. 
"Everyone is prochoice. You're prochoice, I'm pro­choice,"he said."The problem is not prochoice, especially in a democracy, but can you use your freedom to kill other hu­man beings?" 
Attention Junior and Sophomore Business Majors: 
. . .
a1n va ua e wor exper1ence y 1ng a 
position with the Student Business Board 
Help run an organization with sales of 
nearly $100,000 per year! 
The Business Board is responsible for the operations of the Three Student Run Business: 
Irish Gardens Adworks Notre Dame Video 

Applications for General Manager (Seniors to be) will be due 
on Friday, March 26. Applications for Assistant General 
Manager (Juniors to be) will be due on Friday, April2. 
All applications can be picked up in the Student Government 
office on the 2nd floor in LaFortune. Interviews will follow. 
lease call Matt Cenedella at 631,3504. 

Tinteline of Events 
Thursday 11 p.m. Three ND students ask University President Father Edward Malloy to join them in prayer at the Women's Pavilion. 
Friday Ta.m. Thirty Saint Mary's students and faculty, seven Notre Dame law students and about 70 others from the St. Joseph County Chapter of NOW set up a pro-choice counter-demonstration. 
8:30a.m. About 115 members of CALL walked single file from Boehm Park to the abortion clinic. 
9:30 a.m. Pro-life group drops to its knees in prayer facing the pro~choice demonstrators. 
9:35 a.m.·CALLleaves in single file line across South Bend Avenue. 
9~45 a.m. CALL leaders announce they will march across the Notre Dame campus to Malloy's office in the Main Building. 
10:15. a.m. CALL members kneel in front of Malloy's office and begin praying the rosary. Director Peter 
..J::Ieers announces intention to stay in building until he meets with Malloy. 
11:30 a.m. First meeting between CALL members and adrnh1istration. Malloy is not present. CALL leaders announce that conference speakers will address the crow(} in the Main Building. 
3:30p.m. Security closes Main Building to all non-~!Udents and faculty. Speakers begin to address protesters. · 
.3:50p.m. Second me~tlng between CALL leaders and administration. with Father Oliver Williams, associate 
·:provost. 

\5:25 p.m. GALL leaders meet with Dennis Moore, 
,director ofPublic Relations, Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president, and Matthew Cullinan, assistant to the president. 
5:30p.m. CALL announces that Malloy has agreed to speak with them on the condition that protesters leave the building. 
5:45 p~m. CALL leaders meet with Malloy and ask him to pray in solidarity at the Women's Pavilion. 
6:15 p.m. Malloy speaks to media after meeting, saying he will follow his own agenda in supporting pro-life values. 
J J J J J J J J i J J J J 
The Second Annu2l Breen-Phillips H2ll 

WednesdCJy, MCJrch 24, 1993 
LCJ Fortune BCJIIroom 7 ;"JYy1 ....... ~ ?. /')m
f-' 1 ' :...<J "-' a
, 

Free Admission--Donations Accepted 
~~1 s-c-"("'1 :~"''~ i!Jriy l'-rrhl·nson ~.)?
H.

~ ....__ /Ci.' !1\l::__: \...J. tJi ! ..{VVlll L;:J 
All proceeds go to the Catholic Worker House 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 22, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ......... Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Edltor.••••.Rolando de Aguiar Sports Editor ••••••.•...George Dohrmann Accent Edltor................ Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........... Kathy Fang Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth OTS Director ........•.•...•.. Brendan Regan Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 


Dear Editor: 
Recently, both the Notre Dame family and the Catholic character of Notre Dame have been subjects of contention in the Viewpoint section of the pa­per. I withheld my opinion for the most part, but in facing the death of my closest friend after four years of growing and shar­ing together, my feelings on the subject have become much stronger. 
Tara and I both took the time to question our faith and exam­ine our doubts about Catholi­cism. Speaking only for myself, as I try to accept the fact that Tara is gone, I realize that my time at Notre Dame has allowed me to develop a strong faith. 
Blind acceptance of Christian teachings gets you nowhere. There have been times in which I have wondered if perhaps my faith was not as strong as I would like to think. With the death of Tara, I am quickly realizing how strong my faith is. This is not the time to question God's existence but to accept His will to give Tara her glorious freedom now. 
The time I have spent sur­rounded by people of faith at Notre Dame has allowed me to question, doubt, and finally ac­cept the most difficult aspects of faith. I am relying on that faith now with all my heart as I struggle with the death of one of the most giving and loving persons I have ever know'!:··­
~ I 
-~~ ~-"l r-1 

/ -:;; i ""--­i (r:~.J~~-~I,p;~:;-· -~ 
I cannot question the Catholic ' character of this University or the concept of the Notre Dame family when I witness the out­pouring of love and support di­rected both towards Tara's family and myself. No place is perfect, and we must continu­ally strive to be like Christ as individuals and as a community. However, I feel blessed to have benefited from both an ex­cellent Catholic education and the love of a wonderful com­munity, particularly in PW. 
My heartfelt thanks go out to each of you who has comforted me and Tara's family. I cer­tainly never expected my senior year to end this way and it will be a very difficult time for me, but I am so grateful for my faith and family. 
Elizabeth Wholihan Pasquerilla West March 16, 1993 

Program hopes to encourage pen pals 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to ail members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631·5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631·4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
Abortion protesters miss the mark 
It was a unlikely sight. More than one hundred anti­abortion protesters lined the hallway of the third floor of the Main Building, calling on the University President Father Edward Malloy to join them in solidarity. 
Could this be happening at Notre Dame, the nation's preeminent Catholic University? 
In fact, that was the scene for seven hours Friday, as members of Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (CALL) knelt in prayer, sang hymns and accused Notre Dame of undermining the pro-life movement. 
But underlying the group's anti-abortion protest was the claim that Notre Dame is not fulfilling its responsibility as a Catholic university to foster the teachings of the Church. The group cited Notre Dame's decision to award last year's Laetare Medal to pro-choice supporter Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan. 
"The Church teaches us to stand in solidarity against abortion," CALL director Peter Beers said. "Notre Dame hasn't done that." 
Amid the extreme words that have become all too familiar in today's abortion debate, the University took a sane middle ground. 
"Notre Dame is a Catholic institution," said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations. "It follows the tenets of the Church. But it is also a University which fosters public discussion." 
Any Catholic university must determine what it values most: being Catholic or being a university. 
Notre Dame has shown that it possible to value both. It is Catholic in that it adheres to and fosters Catholic morality, values and social justice. But it is also a university, a place where information is presented and students must decide what to value. A university must educate, not indoctrinate. 
Even a university rooted in the Catholic tradition must be open to the marketplace of ideas on all issues. Through courses and guest speakers, Notre Dame allows for discussion of various issues and opinions. 
But Notre Dame also has a proven dedication to Catholic values. The Center for Social Concerns shows a unique commitment to service that leads many students into social justice work. The University has even supported pro-life values by banning fetal tissue research in University laboratories. 
Notre Dame has shown it is possible to reconcile Catholicism and education, and that seemed to be lost on the extremist ears of the members of CALL. At a time when pro-life extremism threatens to strangle the message of the anti-abortion movement itself, a few sane words are long overdue. 
DOONESBURY 

Dear Editor: 
Last fall I wrote to ask one question of the students at Notre Dame. It was this: "Could you spare fifteen minutes (or less) per week to improve a child's life in the inner city of Chicago? If so, please read on." 
Thankfully, more than 125 Notre Dame students, faculty, graduates and friends read the letter, responded and became pen-pals with students in our school on the westside of Chicago. Our pen-pal program is called Write To Them. 
Write To Them is a guided pen-pal program matching college students with inner city grade school students in a laid-back, but successful exchange of letters, guidance and friend­ship. 
We especially would like three things: 1) Students who will be studying abroad next year -My class has been corresponding with a student in the Anger Program, and it has given my kids more than I ever imagined! 
2) Next year's R.A.'s who could offer it to their whole section as a service project and 3) a larger number of male pen-pals. We have need for many more pen­pals so think it over, and talk it up. 
I would ask anyone who is interested to please write a note to me today or tomorrow (or by April 16th at the latest). Please write to: WRITE TO THEM, do Sean Scanlon, 3900 W. Lexing­ton, Chicago, ll., 60624. 
Include your name, address, phone number, major, interests, the grade level of the child you would like (K-8) and also include a short statement (a paragraph) on what interests you about this program. 
I, along with many children, await your response. We can take as many students as can write to us, so please do today! 
Sean B. Scanlon Class of 1991 March 18, 1993 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A baby is an inestimable blessing and bother." 
Mark Twain 

Procreate. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

__-_----------~1 
Accent -· 
Monday, March 22, 1993 
By BECKY BARNES Accent Writer 
Students in Passagon in the Republic of Benin, Africa can't take tests if they can't afford the paper to write their answers on. They don't go to school if they have no lunch for the day. The school buildings are collapsing. 
But at least they have a school. 
When Christophe Kougnia­zonde was growing up in Pas­sagon, he walked 18 miles a day to a school in a neighboring town. Now a graduate student in international relations at 
Notre Dame, Kougniazonde played an instrumental role in initiating Project Passagon, a project of Pi Sigma Alpha, the government honors society, which collects money and supplies to send to Passagon. 
When Pi Sigma Alpha heard about the condition of the Pas­sagon school, they decided "[the project] was something students could do something about," said Karen Weigert, who led the project last year. 
The group collected paper, pens and pencils during the last week of the school year and sought private donations. In to­tal. they collected over 500 pounds of supplies and over $1,000. 
The people of Passagon were so excited to get the supplies that they held a welcoming ceremony for the boxes, said Weigert. Over 2,000 people, including the mayor, traditional chiefs, elected representatives and a representative of the department of education attended the event, said Kougniazonde. 

"When someone gives you something, that is a testimony to the way he accepts you, the way he or she loves you," he continued. "It is a proof of friendship, and that is usually celebrated." 
The ceremony included a re­view of the students in the school, six entertainment groups with singing and dancing, and speeches by officials, said Kougniazonde. Many people held signs that read "Long live the University of Notre Dame" and thanked members of Phi Sigma Alpha, 
he added. 
"For my people, that the stu­dents of Notre Dame, who don't know the people of Passagon, were so sensitive to send mate­rials to the school; that was a big deal," he said. 
The town of Passagon includes 5 to 7 villages and consists of about 10,000 people, said Kougniazonde. It is largely agricultural, producing palm trees, corn, peanuts, beans and oranges. 
The town had no school until the early 1970s when the people realized "a combined feeling about the necessity for schooling," he continued. In a general meeting of all the 


Photo Courtesy Karen Weigert Passagon's only school serves the entire community. Today it barely stands and is in need of much repair. 

villages and chiefs in 1972, the people decided to build a school themselves. 
Individuals at the meeting of­fered to donate material and land, and the building started a week later, said Kougniazonde. They completed the school dur­ing the 1972-73 school year, but then lacked teachers. 
Coincidentally, a new govern­ment took control of Benin dur­ing this time, with a slogan that the people should "count on our own forces," Kougniazonde continued. Since they demonstrated initiative by building the school, they con­vinced the government to send them teachers. 
Although the school has grown from two classrooms to six and accomodates over 350 students, the hastily constructed structure is now about to "collapse on itself," he said. 
Because the only funding the school gets from the govern­ment is for the teachers, stu­dents must supply all their own materials and pay a registration fee, he continued. When par­ents cannot afford materials, children do not go to school. 
The community also combined efforts to build a heath center with a maternity ward and dispensary which· houses about 25 patients. "But the effort to build the health center distracted attention and funds from the school," said Kougniazonde. 
"That's why and how we got to the point where we need to call for assistance for both projects," he added. 
Julie Longstreth, this year's organizer of Project Passagon, said she hopes to expand the project to include corporate and local sponsors. 
The group has already re­ceived a $1600 grant from the national chapter of Pi Sigma Al­pha, who told the group "it was the best proposal they received all year," said Weigert. 
Monetary donations are important to buy materials in Africa to rebuild the school, said Kougniazonde. Shipping the materials to Passagon last year cost over $1,000, which could buy about 10 tons of concrete there, he added. 
The group will again collect pens, pencils and paper from each dorm during the last week of school, said Longstreth. Any­one interested in making dona­tions or helping with the collec­tion should contact Julie Longstreth at 634-3719. 
page 9 

Locals entertain in various art forms 
By KENYA JOHNSON times total." Accent Editor Westler said he still 
appreciates the opportunity to 

Poets, musicians, dramatic read his work in front of others. readers, and even magicians "It's a wonderful forum," he have the chance to perform in explained. "Writing tends to be front of a welcoming audience a lonely act. It's good to have an every Tuesday night at the audience to look forward to." Madison Oyster Bar and The audience is one of "high Seafood parlor. intelligence and utmost 
Writers and Other challenge," according to Troubadours is a group that Westler. Burnett expressed has enlightened the South Bend 
Spring Schectule
community for nearly 12 years 
3/23 Jacque Brogan 
with entertainment and talent. 
poetry reading 
The group was originally 
3/30 Lauren Friesen 
started by Michael Varga, a 
presents Prairie Poems
Philadelphian who came to 
from his works work at Notre Dame's Fatima 
4/6 R.J. Harmony 
Retreat House in 1981. 
musical mixture of folk,"He was a part of a writer's classical, gospel and performing group back east but melodic country songs everyone told him [Varga] that 
4/13 Phillip Ray and friends 
it would never work in South original songs on piano
Bend," said Julie White, a 
4/20 Maz Westler
former Writers and Other 
selections from
Troubadours board member. 
collections of writings
"But he went ahead with his 
5/4 Asi Es Ml Tierra
plans anyway." 
Latin music, dance and The idea proved to be a good stories of culture 
one, seeing that Writers and 
5/11 Jeanne Martinelli 
Other Troubadours has been 
performance, prose and 
successful for a significant 
poetrynumber of years. 

"Two professor from the these same sentiments, yet Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stressed that it was not a criti­community have been booked cal audience. in this season's schedule. "It's a good place and a very 
Jacque Vaught Brogan, an supportive atmosphere for both associate professor of English professional and amateurs," at Notre Dame, will be said Burnett. performing this Tuesday, March "Anyone in the audience can 
23. Brogan readings will be go up to the mike," she said. from her "extensive" repertoire "We've had everything from po­of published poetry. etry and music to belly-dancing, 
Brogan's critical books and harpists." include "Stevens and Smile: A Burnett attributed their Theory of Language," and "Part continued success to publicity, of the Climate: American Cubist good performers and "word of Poetry." She has two poetry mouth." books in circulation and has "We're very pleased to offer published over 30 poems. the forum to artists and provide 
Next month, on April 20, Max the service to the community," Westler, director of the writing said White. program at Saint Mary's, will Madison Oyster Bar and read selections from his widely­Seafood Parlor is located at 421 published collection of writings. East Madison St. in South Bend. 
"This is the first time I'll be Writers and Other Troubadours there in about five years," perform every Tuesday at 8 Westler said. "I've presented p.m. during the academic sea­my work maybe three or four son. For more information call 
(219) 288-3776. 

Award-winning poetry 
By KENYA JOHNSON Poetry has announced that Accent Editor $12,000 in prizes will be 
awarded this year to over 250 . Poets who want to showcase po~ts in the North American theirtalents may want to check Open Poetry Contest. Every out one of these poetry contests poem entered also has a chance being held at the local and na• to be published in a deluxe; tion!U level. · hardbound anthology. I,Iarth ()ay "Poet Tree' The contest is open to all and 
· "'The goal of the 'Poet Tree' entry is free. Poems should be contest is to provide a forum for no more than 20 lines, any sub­students aqg adults to express ject and any style. Entry de!ld­their environmental concerns line is March 31. Send ONE and dreams for a better. tomor­original poem to: The National row," said John Foegley; contest Library of Poetry. 11419 coordinator . Cronridge Dr .• P.O. Box 704-XJ, 
The 1993 "Poet Tree" book Owings Mills, MD 21117. will contain approximately 160 Archive ofthe Arts poems by local South Bend Archive of the Arts, a publica­authors as follows: 10 poems tion based in Mississippi, is giv­from each grade 1·12, 20 ing poets a chance to appear in college students and 20 adults. a nationwide anthology. They Poems should have an are searching for poetry writers environmental theme or should for an upcoming book entitled promote· a better world in the "Feelings of the Past." future. Poets may send one or two 
Entries must be 1 page or less poems, 25 lines or less, on any and are due today, March 22. subject and in any style. The Mail or bring submissions to: deadline for submission is April Earth Day Poetry Contest, 425 15. There is no entry fee. Send Michigan St., Suite 102, South poems to Archive of the Arts. Bend, IN 46601. ATTN: Jerry Medina, 2650 The National Library ofPoetry Beach Blvd., Suite 22, Box 38, 
The National Library of Biloxi, MS 39531. 
r---------------------------------------------------~-.~----------~-------------------------------------------------------------­
page 10 
Three Irish earn CCHA awards 
Observer Staff Report 
The Central Collegiate 
Hockey Association honored 
three Notre Dame hockey 
players at their annual banquet 
on March 18. Seniors Curtis 
Janicke, Carl Picconatto and 
freshman Jaime Ling received 
awards. 
The league coaches selected Ling to the CANSTAR, CCHA All-Rookie Team. He led the Irish this year in scoring with 40 points and 26 assists, and was tied for the team lead with 14 goals. He posted eight mul­tiple-assist games and 11 mul­tiple-point games on the season and never went a weekend without registering a point. 
"We are excited about Jaime's future in our program," said Irish head coach Hie Schafer. "Hopefully, the best is yet to come." 
CCHA faculty representatives selected Janicke and Picconatto to the All-Academic team. 
Janicke, who will graduate with a major in finance, has achieved a 3.1 05 GPA and is a four year monogram winner for the Irish. This year, he was an assistant captain. He fin­ished tied for second with 30 points, scoring 12 goals and dishing out 18 assists. 
"Curtis is a tremendous com­petitor," said Schafer. "He works hard every shift." 
Picconatto has maintained a 
3. 77 GPA in chemistry. He played in 10 games between the pipes and started six. He was a Rhodes Scholar and Marshal Scholar candidate, and has attained the Dean's List six out of seven times. 
"Carl is the hardest working goaltender I have ever been around." said Schafer. 

The Observer 
Cosgrove shines as Belles open season 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team found very little 
difficulty in defeating their on-court opponents 
last week, but their off-court opponent proved a 
little tougher. The storm that hit the East Coast 
last weekend prolonged the Belle's victorious va­
cation at Hilton Head. 

The team came away from the tournament, their first matches of the season, with a 6-1 record. On March 7, the Belles swept Guilford College, 7-2. On the next day, the Belles had a close loss against Haverford College, 5-4. Later on that same day, however, they crushed Roanoake College, 9-0. Then on March 9, they were successful in stopping Bryn Mawr College, 6-3, and Ursinus College, 8-1. On the following day they slaughtered Averette College, 8-1. The Belles finished off the tournament by beating Washington University 6-3. 
Junior Mary Cosgrove, seeded in the number one spot, went undefeated in both singles and doubles play. 
"She had two significant wins against Roanoke and Washington University," said coach Jo-Ann Nester. "This will definitely move her up." 
Cosgrove is ranked No. 13 for the region, a number which should increase after she defeated the No. one singles player at Washington who is ranked No. eighth in the region. Also aiding Cosgrove will be the presence of Washington University's coach, who is a member of the rankings voting committee. 
The Belles finally returned to the Midwest last Tuesday and they left on Thursday to play against Calvin College, in Grand Rapids Mich. The Belles winning streak ended here with a painful loss, 4-5. 
Cosgrove stopped Debbie Pettinga, 7-5, 6-1, and senior Natalie Kloepfer stomped Betty Williams of Calvin in number two singles, 6-3, 6­
4. Sophomore Andrea Ayres lost to Julie Kazee in the third position, 6-3, 6-4. At number four singles, junior Lisa Rania was unsuccessful against Courtenay Teen, 7-6 (7-4), 7-5. Senior Chris Smiggen couldn't beat Jill Boerema at number five singles, losing 6-3, 6-4. In number six singles, sophomore Nancy Waibel beat Beth Vanderkooi, 6-4, 6-4. 
In doubles play, Cosgrove and Ayres swept Pettinga and Williams, 6-4, 7-6 (8-6). Freshman Robin Hrycko and Smiggen were unsuccessful against the Teen/Boerema team, losing 6-4, 2-6, 6-2. And senior Shannon McGinn and Kloepfer, had similar difficulty against Kuzee and VanderKoii, losing 6-4, 2-6, 6-2 again. 

"We hadn't played since Friday. We were absolutely flat," said Nester. 
Kloepfer, however, is doing anything but playing flat. She has been filling junior Thayma Darby's spot who has been away due to an illness in the family. 
"Natalie is playing well at number two," said Nester. "She plays at a level higher than last year. She only lost once at Hilton Head." 
"I like playing at number two," said Kloepfer. "I'm much more confident this year. For the last two years I've been playing at number four, and I wanted to come back this season in at least the third spot." 
Nester said she is also very pleased with Rania's performance at number four. She has only lost one of her last four matches. 
The Belles next game isn't until March 31, at home against Kalamazoo College. 
Photo Courtesy of SMC Sports Information 
Senior Natalie Kloepfer turned in a strong 
performance over break. 

MOnday, March 22, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Aikido Club will have practice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. Beginners are welcome. 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club 
is having a club show. If you are interested in showing stockseat at Purdue on March 27, please call Katie at 284·5520. 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse will meet at 4 
p.m. at Saint Mary's beginning March 22 for practice. If weather is bad, go to Loftus at 4 p.m .. If you have any questions, call Heather Jackson at 284· 5703. 
Bookstore Basketball Is looking for a joke team to play against campus celebrities in the Hall of Fame Game on March 28. Contact Andy at 634-1223 if you are interested. 
Bookstore Basketball captains' meeting will be March 25 at 7 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium. It will be short and schedules will be passed out. All should 
reduce 
reuse
recycle 


The Observer accepts ctassifieds every bustness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepatd. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  I  ATIENTION INDIGO GIRLS' FANSII How would you like a  Newly Remodeled 5br. house for rent Close to ND, all appliances, security  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? NEED FURNITURE?  -The Sixth Sense-Have you you ever experienced de ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing  To the girl who was looking for "Hereditas" val. 45 in the Brare Thurs. afternoon ...  
free ticket to see them? 2 of  systern, etc.  WE HAVE:  you turn to? Do you belief in E.S.P?  Would you like to go out w/ the guy  
TYPING 256·6657  us need a ride to Decorah lA  $650/ mth. 232·8256  BEDS  Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a  who helped look?  
lor Apr.16. All gas and lodging  COUCHES  way of life for you?  
DEB'S TYPING SERVICE 1·656·  will be paid for. Call Joe at  2 br. Apts for rent  TABLE  OR  ADOPTION: A loving happy home,  
3038 PICK-UP/DELIVERY  x2033.  totally remodeled with new  5 CHAIRS  Do you think horoscopes and  financial security, and educational  
appliances and lots of space  ENTERTAINMENT CENTER  fortune telling are bogus, perhaps  opportunities await your newborn.  
The NDCIBD will be sponsoring a  5  truly the best price in town  DRESSERS  even sacrilegious?  We can help with your expenses.  
spring forum. Business in the  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Call us and compare  AND A DESK  We're interested in what you think!!  Please call us collect: David and  
Context of Latin American  · fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  232·8256  CALL 273·2810  Call the Accent department of The  Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's  
Development. "Growth in the  canneries or $4000+/month on  Observer and talk to Kenya at 631­ help each other.  
Making", Thursday. March 25  fishing boats. Free transportation!  3·5 person furnished house, SEC  SANYO 4 SEPARATE  4540.  
7:30pm at the Hesburgh Peace  Room & Board! Over 8000  Syst, wash/dry, Beach V·Ball. Prime  COMPONENT STEREO  CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. ND  
Center. Everyone is welcome to  openings. No experience  Locaton 233·9947.  (tuner, amp,EQ, and tape deck)  Grad. Happily married for 4 years.  
attend.  necessary. Male or Female. For  $150.00 271-1443  Snap-a-scam man, who the  Anxious to adopt newborn infant.  
ILOST & FOUND I  employment program call 1·206­545·4155 ext. A5584  SUMMER SESSION • Visiting Professors, grad students. 4·bdrm. home. Use of all utilities.  Ask for Steve Car for sale.  hell do I give my 2$ to? LADIES 07(former) 6B P.E.  Personal meeting welcome. Lawful and proper pregnancy related expenses paid. Couple approved by  
$250/mo. Close to Campus. Call  '77 Olds 98, V·B.  Greetings from Rome! I miss all of  Texas adoption authorities in  
Found • Pair of glasses on corner of  Paul or Monica 232-2794.  Runs Great, new tires, brakes.  you & can't wail to see you! Love,  advance of placement. State  
Eddy & Edison. Call 232-9672.  SAILING SCHOOL DIRECTOR  Very BIG. Perfect for getting you,  Felicia  supervised adoption procedures.  
Mrs. Sniegowski  1Owk season June-mid Aug,  FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT  friends, and stuff home lor summer.  Call collect: David & Maureen  
Salary $3000·3500 dep. on  SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT  $600 or B0.2893895  TRICIA & NERMS · DON'T ACT  (512) 452·3416.  
Lost -Gold crucifix & chain before  exper. CPR/Ufesaving cart..  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND  LIKE YOU DON'T WANT TO  
break. Sent. Value 634·1817 Sean.  teach. exper. desired. Resume to:St. Joe Jr.  IDEAL FOR 4·7 STUDENTS 2773097  TICKETS  ROOM W/ ME! GO IRISH. WOO! I MISS U The  GO SCREAMIN'  
REWARD! !I! Lost set of keys  Foundation, 1820 Niles,  Phenester  NAKED  
with Ren & Stimpy keychain  St. Joe. Ml49085 by Apr. 15  Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, A, A, 2  Help!!II desperately need extra  NIEMANN!!f!fl  
before Spring Break.  Call  '93 ; Instruct. pas. also; ?'s call  baths. Located College Park  tickets for graduation! This is my  Drummer seeks guitar and  
Ryan x1007.  Diann 284·5262  Condos. Corner of Bulla &  grandparents' last chance to see  bass players for original band  ........ really.  
Ironwood. Must be responsible  one of their grandchildren graduate!  Call Dave X1305  
~-W_A_N_T_E_D___~I SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  ~~___FO___R_R_E_N_T~ Four bedroom furnished Oakhill Condo open for summer rental. Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug @ 614·237-1370 for info.  tenat $595 permo or Sale &65,900. Call Gabrielle at 4·3023 Send info to PO Box 4075 South Bend IN 46634. I PERSONAL I FOR SALE I Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal L--------------' Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrologtcal  Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232· 5843.  Top 10 Quotes Heard During the Adventures of Tom, J.B., Chris, and Ryan in Florida: 10. "I'm not drunk-it just seems like it." 9. "Roach: that's how I remember  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  STEREO COMPONENTS:  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  her name."  
CALL 1·800·786·8373.  EX-ND STAFFER AND SPOUSE  1 yr · like new ($900)  46615, or call Pager #282·7042.  make dreams for your baby come  B. "She's Alrightal"  
DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED  NAD Preamp & Amp  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  7. "Oh my God, it's full!"  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ APARTMENT FOR SUMMER.  Philips CD player  Just one word to all the students  city; summers by the beach; your  6. "I'm not just a security guard­ 
Earn $2,000+/month +world travel  NON·SMOKERS, REFERENCES.  Klipsch speakers  who don't like the rules or the food  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  l'm also deputy sheriff."  
(Hawaii, Mexico. the Caribbean,  WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW DR ..  subwoofer, tapedeck  at ND ·LEAVE  fireplace in winter. and by ocean  5. "Don't cuss-it offends me."  
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  MULBERRY FL 33860 OR CALL  x1528 Will or Mike  waves in summer. Art, music, the  4. "Can we stop at Denny's?"  
employment available. No  (813)425·4404.  BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL  best education, endless love. Call  3. "Hey kid. I've got something  
experience necessary. For  Franny or Stephen collect.  that's a real FUN SIZE in my pocket  
employment program call  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  '87 HONDA CIVIC DX hatchbk  Needs a joke team to play versus  (212)369-2597  for you."  
1·206·634·0468 ext. C5584.  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  call Sherri @ 277-4269 for more  the campus celebrity team on  2. "Wu, you are so funny!"  
219·291· 7153.  info  Sunday March 28th  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  1. "Cops are nothing."  
Need 1 bdrm apt for summer.  Jet there anytime for only $169 from  
Call Nicole at X4935.  4 BEDRM/3BATHRM SEMI·  1.400sft  Please submit proposals to the SUB  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  GRAM & NANC · How are my  
FURN. OAKHILL CONDO  COND0.$60k.2BED/2BATH  office in LaFortune no later than  (when available) with A!RHITCHI  fellow graces? I miss you & can't  
4 RENT '93-'94 SUM and/or YEAR  w/FPLC & DECK. PERFECT FOR  Monday, March 22nd.  (Reported in Let's Gal & NY  wait to see your sorry little butts!  
50,000.000 babies  CALL 277 ·9452  STUDS/ALUMS. 272·5901  Times.) A!RHITCH (r)  'Cause you Don't Impress Me.  
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL!  212·864·2000.  Dobalinal Love, Grace #3  

~---------~-­

Monday, March 22, 1993 The Observer page 11 

NCAA J\IIEN'S BASKETBALL CHAJ\IIPIONSHIP 1993 
1at Round: 2nd Round: 2nd Round: 1at Round: March 18-18 ~n::m 20-21 March 20-21 March 1B-1Iill 
Strip
SOUTHeAST 

continued from page 16 
call on his pocket size cellular phone. Odds are he was making hotel reservations for the sweet sixteen. 
5:30 -Stefanie swears she will give up candy on Sunday's (the one exceptance on her Lenten promise) if Cal wins. I just keep swearing as Grant Hill catches fire and Duke cuts the Cal lead in half. 

1et Round:  2nd Round:  Regional  Semifinal•  Regional  2nd Round:  1at Round:  
Malrch 17  March 20 or 21  Mard'l25 or27  April3  March 25 or 27  March 20 or 21  Man:h 17  
MIDWIEST  ,,,,,,\~;.·~r··  
..!).~~-~~!!!-~!  
..........................  ( ...!!.~~~!!...t........~~~-~----4..~~:;:_;:.;;;;____  
..~)-~---~~~X]B -~>.W..·.!::i.~-J Miami (Fla.) 63 (.!~.'!.~_l_!f..~:}..(~~)( ) \.......................... St. Pet.,•e At Richmond. VitpkN ··c;·a.:;·o;··------------·  

~\\~ 

to benefit La Casa de Amistad 
:06 -The Chancellor of Cal with his 5'6" stature and Joe Paterno glasses runs up and down the aisle slapping every hand in his sight. Upon reaching the top of the section he begins pumping his fists in celebration. 
:00 -I hug Stefanie and several other strangers around me. The joy I feel for Cal hides the pain coming from my fin­gers where my nails have been reduced to nothing. 
The small list of occurrences does not do justice to the emotion which rippled through the Horizon. Nor does it mention the sadness felt upon leaving the arena. 
How long had it been since Notre 
Dame fans had the opportunity to relish in the emotions surrounding a relevant basketball contest? The Irish's upset of UCLA last season standing as the only game in recent history,which seems decades ago after the Irish's 92-93 debacle. 
It is not a matter of school pride or bragging rights, it is simply a passion for the intensity surrounding a game of such magnitude. Irish fans must look elsewhere. Indiana, Michigan, or Cincinnati are widely chosen candidates. 
They are only substitutes for cheering for your own school, but when will Notre Dame fans no longer seek a replacement? 
As the fans dispersed I noticed a fan who may have an answer. 
"Hey Monty," I yelled to Notre Dame 
forward Monty Williams. "Your gonna 
bring Notre Dame here next year right?" 
"I hope so," he answered. 
I hope so too. 
Dinner with Lou Holtz 
March 27th, 7 p.m., Librarv Auditorium 
Tickets $3 at La Fortune Information Desk 
*''~$!i$&~~~$~J~~~~~~~u 

page 12 The Observer Monday, March 22, 1993 
Controversial call aids Central Michigan in '.Min over Notre Dame 


Lax 
continued from page16 

letic team, and knew we would be fresher than them because this was their third game in five days," Corrigan said. 
This freshness was reflected in the fact that the Irish gobbled up 65% of ground balls, keeping the ball pinned in the UMBC zone for most of the game. 
The win was even more im­pressive considering the Irish are beset by injuries. Starting junior attacker Steve Manley (back) and sophomore mid­fielder Marc Pasquale (hamstring) were unable to play while starting goalie Chris Parent and midfielder Kevin Lynyak saw limited time be­cause of the flu. 
Conserve Energy: 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
A volleyball match that more closely resembled a war came to a strange, disappointing end Friday night, as the Irish men's team lost a deciding fifth game to Central Michigan on a con­troversial net-call on Tom Ko­vats. 
The Irish, who fell 16-14, 15­17. 15-8, 9-15 and 22-20, were called for three net violations in the fifth game, violations that equaled CMU's final three points. 
"That's a terrible way to lose," said club president Pat Madden, still seething long after the match was finished. "I think one, maybe two, were actual net violations." 
"TK ( Kovats ) said that he netted the last one, but that the other guy did, too. So, I don't know," Madden said. 
Club captain Brian Ceponis was equally unhappy with the outcome."It was strange, really strange," said Ceponis. "There were some really bad calls to­day ... you can't blame that for the outcome of the game, but it's still unfortunate." 
The Irish jumped to a 12-7 lead in game one, and were serving for the game , but a series of poorly hit balls and other mental errors let CMU back into the game, and they prevailed 16-14. 
Game two was a close, in­tensely played match, the biggest lead coming when Leo 
his younger players to step up and 
Sophomore Ryan Jewell shined in Parent's absence allowing only one goal in 36 minutes of action, while freshman midfielder Michael Maroney saw a great deal of time, in place of Pasquale and Lynyak, and had an assist.The 
by a freshman, however, was turned 
"We knew Kevin had a lot of talent coming in this year, so his performance didn't surprise me 
the con­

I had been practicing with Randy and Robbie Snyder since the first of the year, so I was confi­dent that I could produce," he said. 
Casas smashed a sharp set to CMU's feet for a 12-8 Notre Dame lead. CMU then fought back to a 13-13 tie, but the Irish. with kills by Madden. Casas and Chris Murdy, took the game 17-15. 
The third game was the low point of the night for the Irish, as Central Michigan began to attack every ball the Irish put up. One sequence saw players from both sides diving every­where, digging balls that ap­peared unhittable, before a CMU spike took them to an 11-8 lead, and an eventual 15-8 win. 
"We lost our confidence in that game," said Ceponis. 
The Irish didn't suffer from a lack of confidence in the closing moments of game four. Tied at 9-9 in a must-win situation, Murdy and Casas led the six straight points. 
"What mistakes we made were due to aggressiveness which is good," said Ceponis. "We finally realized that we could control the net in gam four." Murdy, Casas and were all strong on the net. 
Game five, like the rest of th match, was back and forth, wi the Irish taking the biggest le of the game at 13-10. CMU ran off four straight points the Irish rallied to tie at 2 Two controversial calls later, match was over. 
"I thought we played al right." said Ceponis. "Once realized the net was ours, controlled it. All we can do just suck it up and play tough i the next one." 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Freshman attacker Kevin Mahoney contributed four goals during Saturday's 16-4 Notre Dame win. 
turn out your lights 

~----------------,
Three's A Crowd ...

-
Buy 2 

1636 N. Ironwood I 
(Just south ofSR23)
Get 1 I 
271--1433
Free I I 
Hours: 
Buy ~my t\\"ll pasta Mon-Tues 11-9:30 

I
l'IHI"l'L'~ an,l gl't 

Wed-Sat 11-10 
I
tlw hd fur Frl'L' Sunday 4-9:30 
I
1Dine-in only. Coupon good till4/7/93. Free dinner must be 1 
._ _________... ______
1 of equal or lesser value. Not good with any other offer. .J 
+ 

LENTEN GRADUATE STUDENT MINI-RETREAT 
Sunday, March 28 3:00 -7:00 p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection on the biblical texts of the Sundays of Lent. 
Place: Fischer Graduate CommunitY. Center 
Cost:  The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper  
for which a donation will be welcomed.  
CALL BY  FRIDAY MARCil  26 TO RESERVE A PLACE.  

Contact fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., fischer Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at fischer Community Center 239-8607. 
1&1 
0MPUS 

MINISTRY 


Monday, March 22, 1993 The Observer 
Irish exceed expectations with trio of wins 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team expected some success heading into this 
·weekend's matches against Drake, Michigan, and Kansas State. And, for perhaps the first time all season, the Irish exceeded all expectations. 
In their opening match against Drake on Saturday, Notre Dame plowed through the competition without losing a set and never looked back the rest of the weekend. The list of scores tells the story: Notre Dame 9, Drake 0; Notre Dame 9, Michigan 0; Notre Dame 8, 
ansas State 0. "We really did not expect to in as big as we did, especially 
gainst Michigan," said Irish :oach Jay Louderback. 'Michigan is a solid team, and .hristy Faustmann was sick 
i!:CLUB 
Don't miss Cliff Erickson's annual performances on his national tour. 
This Friday f:l Saturday IO•Z 
Club opens at 9, come early lor the best seats. 
mustbeZJ: 


and could not play, but every­one stepped up and did a great job." 
"I was very pleased with the way Ennie Bende played. She just had a great weekend," said Louderback. "She hasn't played much singles for us, but she's been playing well in practice and is pretty even with our other players." 
Against Drake, Bende filled in for Sherri Vitale and posted a solid 7-5, 6-2 win. 
"It was different for me to play singles," said Bende, "but it was helpful. In my first match, I didn't start out very well, but I got more and more comfortable as I went on." 
"Playing singles also helped me with my doubles, because it gave me a chance to warm up. Also, I've been having some trouble with my returns in doubles, and my singles matches gave me a chance to 
SENIOR 

work on that." 
With Christy Faustmann un­able to compete in the Michigan and Kansas State matches the rest of the singles lineup shifted up to cover her number-three spot, and Bende filled in at number six. 
Against the Wolverines' Tara Graff, Bende dropped her first set 2-6, but recovered to claim the next two sets 6-4 and 7-6. Facing Kansas State she showed no signs of tiring, rolling to a 6-2, 6-1 victory. 
With the three match wins this weekend the Irish raised their season dual match record to 10-6, and their regional record to 6-0. The Irish also extended their match win streak to four-the longest of the the season. 
"Right now," said Louderback, "We're seeing the results of the tough schedule we had at the beginning of the season. It's 
The Observer/Kyle Kusak Sophomore Laura Schwab was one of several Irish players who picked 
up their play over the weekend. 
really helped us overall." 
Bende agreed with Louder­back's assessment of the schedule. 
"We started out against a lot of top-25 teams and we didn't have a very good record. But we did get a chance to see those good teams and measure ourselves against them. That gave us a chance to set some standards for ourselves and we know what level we have to reach in order to compete." 
Though the team's confidence may have been boosted by more wins early in the season, Louderback is not second­guessing the schedule. 
Upsets 
continued from page 16 
successful stint in doubles play and responded with two key victories. 
However, perhaps most im­portant for the Irish was the unbelievable play of seniors Coleman, Schmidt, and Rosas at the two, three, and four singles slots. Coleman and Schmidt won all four times they stepped on the court and Rosas went 3­1. 
With the impressive tourna­ment win, the Irish are sure to climb back up in this week's rankings, which will be an­nounced on Tuesday. 
Due to late Sunday night ar­rivals, coach Bob Bayliss and members of the team were unavailable for comment. 
Notre Dame 5, No. 19 New Mexico 2 
SINGLES: Forsyth beat No. 47 Gene Carswell, 6-2, 6-1; Coleman beat Coulter 

The Office of Minority Studlem Affairs, Multi~culrural Executive Council, and the Li.Uy Foundation present: 
"A Collar in My Pocket" 
(a workshop) 

-
Jane Elliott 
Monday, March 22, 1993 Washington Hall 7:00p.m. 
Jane Elliott is the adapter of"Blue Eyes, Brown Eyes" discrimination exercise and her work has been documented on ABC's Peabody Award winning "the Eye of the Storm" PBS's Emmy Award winning "Frontline Series," and Florida Public T~levision's Emmy Award winning "the Eye of the Beholder." She has been a guest on a wide variety of television shows, including "Today," 
"the Johnny Carson Show," "the Phil Donahue Show," and "the Oprah 
Winfrey Show." 

"At the time we made our schedule up we had Terri Vitale healthy and Melissa Harris was also expected to play. Those two players could have made a big difference in those early matches. But still, since then everyone else has really stepped up to fill in those spots. 
Notre Dame hopes to continue its current success in home matches next weekend against Miami (Ohio) and 22nd-ranked Clemson. 
As for Welsh, "Watching her last race was really emotional. I couldn't be happier for her." 
Wright, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6; Schmidt beat Garett Prins, 6-2, 6·1; Rosas beat Warren Brooks, 6·4, 7-6; Roy Canada beat Wilson, 6-4. 3-6, 6-3; Wojtalik beat Chris Brown, 6·2, 6-7, 6­
DOUBLES: No. 21 Carsweii-Canada beat Forsyth-Coleman, 8-4; Schmidt-Wilson beat Prins-Wright, 8-6; Jeremy DeFalco-Brooks beat Wojtalik-Sprouse, 8-4. 
Notre Dame 5, No. 7 Miss. State 2 
SINGLES: Forsyth beat No. 1 Dan Cour­col, 6-4, 2-6, 6-3; Coleman beat No. 73 Laurent Orsini, 6-4. 6-4; Schmidt beat Lau­rent Miquelard, 6-7 (9·7), 6-4, 6-1; Rosas beat Per Nilsson, 6-4, 6-2; Wilson beat Remi Barbarian, 6·2, 7-6 (8-6); Stephanie Plot beat Wojtalik, 7-5,7-5. 
DOUBLES: Courcoi-Miquelard beat Coleman-Forsyth, 8-6; Nilsson-Kristian Brons beat Schmidt-Wilson, 8-4; Orsini-Bar­barian beat Rosas-Wojtalik, 8-6. 
Notre Dame 4, No. 17 Florida 3 
SINGLES: No. 9 Mark Merklein beat Forsyth, 6-3, 6-4; Coleman beat David Blair. 6-2, 2-6, 6-2; Schmidt beat Daimon Henkel. 6-4, 6-0; Rosas beat Trevor Tailor, 6-2, 7-6; Brett Stein beat Wilson, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4; Mike Sprouse beat David Baylog, 6-2. 6-3. 
DOUBLES: Merklein-Biair beat Forsyth­Coleman. 8-2, Schmidt-Wilson beat Taylor­
"Tanya raced really well all the way through. She swam magnificent in the morning in order to return to finals in the evening, which needs to be done when the meet is so fast," Welsh commented. 
Williams also swam in the 200-yard individual medley. This event resulted in her 

page 14 The Observer 
Williams ends career with finest performance 
best times in the 100-and 200­yard backstrokes. In the 100­yard backstroke, Williams reset her own university record with a time of 55.68. She also low­ered her own university record in the 200-yard backstroke (1:57.68); a time fast enough for her to be named All-Ameri­can in the event. 
fastest time this season, 2:03.91; a time that goes down in the record books as the third fastest ever at Notre Dame. 
"I was really happy with the way I swam. It was exciting to finish with best times," Williams said. "It's so weird to be done with swimming. I can't believe it, I don't know what to do." 
~ '* 

~'*"<>' 

The Observer/Sean Farnan Tanya Williams ended her career at the NCAA Championships with her strongest performance ever. 
Today 
Monday, March 22, 1993 page 15 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I G\lESS \\\EiR-E 1>.0\-1111\\\IIG
II D\lPL\Cfln::.s ~E EI=IT.C\

LOOK. AT \\-lESE T\1 
TiiAI fl. IS-SECo\11\) CO!I\M~CIAL
OF I<A\1\0L'{ FLIPPING mR<YJG\i

COtJ-tJ-ERCIAL<; • EK.\l. Ot'{E 
Cl{l>.~~t:.l'S. \IS fl. 131\RRfiGE 

EXCEE\:5 1\\E At-1\ERIC/>.~
IS f>. J\J~BLE or LIGI-\Tt'-lil-\E. 
1\nt:N\\ON spp.,~ B'( AGOO'V
Or l'\ON·LINE/I..R

Q\J\CK, VNRELA\1:\) \t<\fiG~S 
14 'SECDN\)S.

AI'\Q (:\Ll'/1 \EC\\t-1\Q.\JES. FRt£ 1>.%0C.\to.\\OIIl. 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATIERSON 
• 
~ 
....-~. rn-o,"'-LL!~ 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Unbeknownst to most students of psychology, Pavlov's first experiment was to ring a bell and cause his dog to attack Freud's cat. 



Shabazz: 
(widow of Malcolm X) Speaks on "The Status of Blacks and Women in today's Society" 
Wednesday 3/24 7:30 pm Stepan Center 83 Students/Facultl S5 Public tickets at La Fortune ln1ormation Desk 

see:Shear Madness 
in Chicago 

tickets on sale now 
-

April 10.. 11 See this long-running comedy, spend the night at Days Inn-Lakeshore Drive 
eutd eHftul Hta44 tUt ~ ~~­ONLY $45.00 ticketsat LaFortunelnfo.Des~ 

-
Sports 
page 16 
Monday, March 22, 1993 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team has always had to battle to earn respect from the tradi­tional eastern lacrosse powers. But with Saturday's 16-4 thor­ough domination of the 19th­ranked University of Maryland 


• 
Four ranked teams fall to Irish 
Forsyth tops nation's best player to lead weekend rout 
By JON JENSEN Associate Sports Editor 
After losing three matches with top-20 teams on a spring break trip and slipping to 14th in last week's national rankings, some fans probably scotTed at the Notre Dame men's tennis team's chances of repeating their second place finish in last year's NCAA Championships. 
Well, doubt no more. 
The Irish signaled their re­turn to the nation's elite this weekend with four resounding wins over top­25 teams in t h e prestigious ,B I u e-Gray National Classic, capturing the tournament championshipwith a 8-1 Coleman 
thumping of No. 18 Alabama on Sunday afternoon in Montgomery, Alabama. 
Before this weekend the Irish had lost eight out of their 11 matches with top-25 foes, including six losses against teams that have been ranked in the top-10. But they turned it on during one of the nation's premier tournaments this weekend, downing No. 19 New Mexico on Thursday, and pulling off an upset of No. 7 Mississippi State on Friday to reach the semifinals. Saturday saw the Irish defeat No. 17 Florida, and No. 18 Alabama finally succumbed to the Irish on Sunday. 
Though Notre Dame lost the crucial doubles point in three out of the four matches, it was the singles 


-
SWIMMING 
Tanya Williams conludes 


The Belles tennis team 
her career at Notre Dame. 

shines over break. 
see page 14 

see page 10 
Baltimore-County Retreivers, the Irish avenged last year's loss, and at the same time gained a measure of respect. 
Just how much recognition the Irish earned was reflected in the latest United States In­tercollegiate Lacrosse Associa­tion's coaches' poll. Notre Dame moved into the top 20 for the first time this season, landing in the No. 16 slot. 
The Irish had something to prove against UMBC because of last year's 13-7 loss on the road, and made their point from the game's opening min­utes. Freshman attacker Kevin Mahoney scored 50 seconds into the game, and after junior attacker Randy Colley tallied the next two goals, the rout was on. 
When the first quarter merci­fully came to a close for UMBC, the Irish had opened up an in­surmountable 9-2 lead. 
"The first quarter, we were 
matches that saved the Irish, as they went an incredible 19-5 in overall singles matches. 
In Thursday's match against the Lobus of New Mexico, the Irish got three straight set wins from seniors Will Forsyth, Mark Schmidt, and Ron Rosas, and seniors Chuck Coleman and Chris Wojtalik also captured close victories. Coleman defeated Coulter Wright, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6, and Wojtalik downed Chris Brown, 6-2, 6­7, 6-3. 
Though the Irish's only doubles win was Schmidt and Todd Wilson's 8-6 victory over Garett Prins and Wright, the five singles wins supplied the muscle for the 5-2 win. 
Friday's improbable upset of the 7th-ranked Bulldogs was keyed by Forsyth's upset win over the No. 1-ranked singles player in the nation, Paris native Daniel Courcol. Forsyth defeated Courcol, 6­4, 2-6, 6-3 in an emotional match, and Chuck Coleman also beat a ranked player, 73rd-ranked Laurent Orsini, by a 6-4, 6-4 score. Schmidt, Rosas, and Wilson also came up with wins in the 5-2 trouncing. 
On Saturday the Irish earned a bit of revenge, as they slipped past a Florida team that bounced them from the Blue-Gray last year. The Irish ended up finishing fifth in last year's tournament. 
But this year it was a difl'erent story, as the 4-3 win earned the Irish their first berth in the tournament's final. Though Forsyth fell to 9th-ranked Mark Merklein, 6-3, 6-4, Coleman, Schmidt, and Rosas all remained 

player in the country. 

SAINT MARY•s 
ready to play, and gave a flaw­less performance," said Notre Dame Coach Kevin Corrigan. "We had an excellent offensive performance in the first quarter and did a great job riding them and grabbing ground balls all game long." 
UMBC scored the first goal of the second quarter, but Colley and junior Robbie Snyder replied with goals that hiked the lead at halftime to 11-3. 
Colley scored five goals and assisted on two scores, while Mahoney turned in the strongest performance of his brief career with four goals. Snyder also added three goals from his attack position. 
"We knew we'd come out and play hard, but we were kind of surprised that we blew them out," said junior midfielder Willie Sutton. 
"I felt we were the more ath­
see LAX/page 12 

VOLLEYBALL 
Junior Van Suh and the men's volleyball team fall to Central Michigan 
see page 12 
Substitutes not enough for Irish fans 
"The End of an Era," ESPN labeled the upset. The changing of the point guard, Cal's freshman Jason Kidd replacing Duke senior Bobby Hurley as the game's premier floor leader. It was Cal versus Duke. 
The Golden Bear's 82-77 upset of the defending national champion was all that is March Madness. And under the most unlikely conditions, I found myself in seat 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Jock Strip 
32, row J of section 101 in the Rosemont Horizon. My friend Stefanie called Friday with an invitation to Saturday's game, due to free tickets she received from Cal guard Jerod Haase, a friend from high school. I accepted with a resounding "hell yes." 
Twenty-two hours after that call I was sitting seven rows from the press tables at the NCAA's midwest regionals. And from that seat l witnessed a tide of emotion which rippled through the arena. 
The first half: 
18:30 -With a minute and a hal elapsed in the game I began to work on the fingernails. My index, pinky and thumb on my right hand were the first to go, the result of Cal's opening spurt and the inaugural thoughts of witnessing an upset of such proportions. 
9:27 -I began slapping hands with Cal alumni and students. A week ago I couldn't care less about either of these teams. Cal was Cal, Duke was Duke but neither was Notre Dame. So who cares? 
3:06 -I've switched to the left hand, and realize that if I had twenty lingers it still wouldn't be enough. 
0:00 -I call my dad at the half and tell him that if Cal wins, Stefanie and I may have tickets for the sweet sixteen in St. Louis on Thursday. He tells me I have school on Thursday. !laugh and then hang up. 
The second half. 
13:25 -Cal increases its lead to 17. A yuppie two rows in front of me places a 
see Strip/page 11 








