The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 76 FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Committee assembled to promote ethnic diversity 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
In an effort to promote cam­pus-wide awareness of the value of ethnic variety, Univer­sity President Father Edward Malloy has appointed a 12-per­son committee on cultural di­versity according to Roland Smith, 
executive  assistant  to  the  
president  and  commi ttee  
member.  

Other members of the com­mittee include Ani Aprahamian, assistant professor of physics, Greg Butrus, student body president, Carolyn Callahan, associate professor of ac­countancy, and Maria Fuentes, assistant director of Minority Student Affairs. 
Members also include Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice-presi­dent for student affairs, George Lopez, associate professor of government and international studies, Roger Mullins, director of the department of human resources, and Iris Outlaw, di­rector of minority student af­fairs. 
Erskine Peters, professor of English, Roger Schmitz, vice­president and associate provost, and Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president also serve on the committee. 
The committee was formed "to follow up on a task force re­port on cultural diversity issued this fall and to coordinate cam­pus activities in this area," ac­cording to a recent newsletter issued by Malloy. 
The committee, which has al­ready met twice since Decem­ber, will meet "as frequently as possible, but at least once a month" in an attempt to meet task force recommendations, according to committee mem­ber, Smith. 

According to Outlaw, the committee is a University at­tempt to show accountability and concern for campus race relations. The committee, ac­cording to Outlaw, will attempt to make Notre Dame, as a campus, "more aware and tol­erant of cultural differences." 
"In spring of 1990, Students 
For swimmers, recovery a wonderful story 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 
Despite the painful memories, the story of the Notre Dame women's swim team accident and recovery is one that Coach Tim Welsh wants to tell. 
"This story is a wonderful story," he said. "A healing story is a wonderful story." 
• Haley Scott/ page 6 
It is a story he has had many opportunities to tell recently, as Jan. 24 marks the one year anniversary of the bus accident in a snowstorm on the Indiana Toll Road. an accident that claimed the lives of freshmen Meghan Beeler and Colleen llipp and injured freshman Ha­ley Scott and 34 others. 
Attention is something that the swim team was not used to before last year. To a low pro­file sport at a University where football and basketball usually hold the spotlight, the new media blitz has both its positive and negative aspects, said se­
The Observer/T. J. Harris
nior swimmer Kay Broderick. 
Members of the women's swim team enter the pool during a meet. This Sunday marks the one year anniver­
Although she realizes the 
sary of the accident which claimed the lives of Freshmen Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp.
story is of great interest to all the people who offered so much in which Beeler and Hipp lived matter of "life affirmation," he each offered their services to support last year and want to will take part in the Mass. said. "Our assignment after the the team in dealing with the know how the team is doing, "it "The Mass is a celebration...," accident was to say 'life goes emotional and physical conse­does bring everything up again started Welsh, and then he on.'" quences of the accident. Sports and puts everyone under a stopped to qualify. "Memorial? An assignment easier said Information has played a large microscope," she said. I don't know quite what word to than done, perhaps, but neither role in handling the current 
"Everyone's bracing them­use." the coaches nor the team had to media onslaught by screening selves in a way for the anniver­Confusion is nothing new to do it alone. In dealing with both callers and protecting members sary and all the attention," she the swimmers these days. the physical and mental of the team whom they know continued. Anger, questions and disbelief consequences of the accident, aren't up to the attention. 
Welsh likes to focus on the were all part of the initial reac­both then and now, the team Father Theodore Hesburgh, positive aspects of the story. tion to the accident and still has had the help from all facets University president-emeritus, "The support that has carried remain to some extent today, of the Notre Dame community. invited Welsh to his apartment us through the year is an in­said Broderick. The outpouring of sympathy, on the 14th floor of the library spiring story," he said, and But it's getting better. "The love and support from the to talk about everything the that's the story he likes to tell. team has done a remarkable community has probably been team has been through and the 
The team will mark the an­amount of healing, and we want the greatest aid to the team, he upcoming season. niversary with a Mass on Sun­to mark that in a way that said. "It's all on the intangible Everyone has said, "You're 

day at 11:45 a.m. in the Basilica commemorates both Meghan side, but it's very, very helpful." part of the family, let us help of the Sacred Heart, and and Colleen," said Welsh. The University Counseling 
see SWIM I page 6 

members of the· residence halls The memorial Mass is a Center and Health Services United For Respect, (SUFR) challenged the University to address concerns over race re­lations in matters of academics, residence halls, and student af­fairs. This committee comes as a response to those concerns," said Outlaw. 
Although, when or how the committee will implement changes has not yet been estab­lished, they remain optimistic that it can make the campus "more open to the acceptance of cultural differences," accord­ing to Butrus. 

Second Gary crash this week 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)-An Amtrak passenger train crashed into a semi tractor­trailer truck yesterday morning just west of Gary, Ind. There were no serious injuries in the collision, which happened less than a mile from the fatal crash of two South Shore Railroad commuter trains this week. 
The commuter and Amtrak trains run on separate tracks and the crashes were appar­ently not related. The latest ac­cident happened at a highway crossing just before 11 a.m. EST about three miles west of Gary. 
The train was en route from Grand Rapids, Mich., to Chicago when it struck a truck crossing the tracks, said Howard Robertson, an Amtrak spokesman in Washington. 
"We don't know if he was try­ing to beat the train ot just didn't see it," Robertson said. 
He did not know how many passengers were on the train. Buses were taking them from the accident scene to the Chicago station 24 miles away. 
The accident occurred about half a mile from the scene of a commuter crash on Monday that killed seven riders and in­jured 69. 
Federal investigators contin­ued today to study the results of a re-enactment of a collision between the trains. 
"We've reached no conclu­sions about the-cause," said Michael Martino of the National Transportation Safety Board. Investigators were only gather­ing facts for analysis, he said. 
One commuter train sideswiped another shortly 
see CRASH I page 5 

Clinton faces Iraq, guests on first day 
WASHINGTON (AP) -On his greeting from Clinton. spokesman said she would be first day in the Oval Office, It was almost 1 p.m. before he closely involved in developing President Clinton said Thursday paid his first visit to the Oval Clinton's health-care program. his administration would not Office -just a quick look Day One brought the first flinch from military showdowns around before moving on to the break in the military cease-fire with Iraq following a fresh Roosevelt Room for a meeting extended by Saddam Hussein as challenge. The Senate rushed with senior aides. a goodwill gesture to the new approval of more of his Cabinet Clinton told them, "We just president. but hundreds of senior positions have to be dominated by high Pentagon officials said two remained vacant. standards and clear vision and U.S. warplanes fired on an Iraqi 
After partying into the early we ought to have a good time air defense site after it turned hours after his inauguration, doing it." its radar on them -a Clinton spent all morning Meanwhile, his wife, Hillary, precursor to possible firing. It greeting thousands of visitors to was checking out the Oval Of­was not clear whether it was an a White House open house. fice. In a break with tradition, isolated incident or a calculated Well-wishers waited outdoors she will have an office in the test of Clinton. for hours on a cold winter day West Wing, the first time a first 
see CUNTONI page 5

for a quick handshake and lady has had space there. A 


O'Meara encourages greater faculty participation 
ByNICKRIOS from the members of the News Writer committee. 
Provost Timothy O'Meara The Faculty Senate had a emphasized that he wants and prepared list of questions which supports the promotion of they had sent in advance to greater participation by the O'Meara. One of these ques­faculty, during yesterday's tions dealt with what he hoped meeting of the Faculty Senate to accomplish in the next few Committee. He said he wants years. the voices of the faculty to be "I will try to establish the new heard and taken into consider­form of governance in such a ation. way that it works well in aca­
O'Meara attended the meet­demic functions," said ing as a guest speaker to an­
see O'MEARA/page5

swer questions and concerns 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------~~·----· 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



A year later, bad things stiII happen 

The aging priest was snoring, his head bobbing up and down as he fought the drowsiness inspired, presumably, by the intense heat in the Basilica. Who could blame him? As hundreds 


of well-wishers fought MONICA YANT for inches to pay their Editor-in-Chief 
respect, hundreds more 
braved the cold to stand -------­
in solidarity outside the giant doors. 
The room was hot, and no one could legit­imately complain. We were there, after all. They weren't. And even the sleepy priest would have welcomed scorching temperatures to bring them 
back. 
Maybe half of the crowd that day in the Basilica knew Meghan Beeler or Colleen Hipp. Maybe one-fourth. But nearly everyone knew someone just like them: Youthful, energetic, bright and driven. Young women with promising futures and spirited idealism. Someone's sister or roommate, girlfriend or tutor, granddaughter or pupil. 
'Why Bad Things Happen to Good People' was the title of a book. she thinks. She wonders ifit's out ofprint by now. She hopes it isn't. 
For a memorial Mass, it was peppered with unusual spirit. And smiles, if forced. A celebration of life, even though the realization o life lost was unshakable. 
Equally as unshakable is the fact that it was almost a year ago that the Notre Dame community joined hands that day in the Basilica. But it was. It is. It will be, Sunday. 
'Why Bad Things Happen to Anybody' should have been the title, he argues. Because they shouldn't happen. To anybody. 
A year later, there is little one can say about the accident that doesn't inch precariously close to preaching from a wobbly pulpit. No one knows how the friends and families of each and every woman on that bus felt, or continues to feel. No one truly understands what anyone remotely associated with the team or our community expe­rienced. No one can say with any certainty at all that any of it has become a memory or that any of it ever will. 
But as with all loss, we can hope. The people who try to say what is too hard to say hope. So do the people who say nothing. 
The sheer irony of the fatal South Shore accident last week draws an icy comparison to the United Limo accident. Although the communit,y can thank God that we didn't lose any of our family members in the train collision, we would be kidding ourselves if we failed to shiver 
at the similarities between the two tragedies.
But we don't kid ourselves. Bad things like • trains colliding and children starving and neighbors fighting are happening every day. No doubt they will continue to happen Sunday, as i to say that if the pain from last year is abated for one person in this community it does so only to gather strength to strike another person in an­other community. 
We shrug our shoulders en masse while reconciling ourselves with the fact that the truth -like just about everything else in this world ­really does hurt. 
Why do bad things happen to good people, bad people -all people, we asked ourselves then, and now. Both times we knew the answers. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 

News  Systems  
Jennifer Habrych  Harry Zembillas  
Michael O'Hara  Viewpoint  
Guy Laranger  
Production  
Rich Riley  Etc.  
Whitney Sheets  Kenya Johnson  
Sports  Melissa Cusack  
Jen Marten  
Illustrator  Lab Tech  
David Devine  Scott Mendenhall  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


59 34 32 30 41 34 59 47 41 29 54 46 45 24 57 36 44 37 42 36 48 37 D.C. 39 27 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Child's name given court approval 
• LA ROCHELLE, France -The high court in this Atlantic coastal town has allowed parents to name a child in triplicate, clearing the way for a girl to keep her name: Marie Marie Marie. The court reversed a lower court ruling that disallowed Marie Marie Marie's name in civil records. The reason given was that a name in triplicate does not enrich the French heritage. In a recent interview with a local newspaper, Marie Marie Marie's father explained why he chose the name for his daughter: She weighed 3.33 kilos when born in August, her head and chest measured 33 centimeters and she was 51 centimeters long, a multiple of three. He said the baby's mother was 33 years old, and that when Marie Marie Marie was born "she was really 'gironde"' ­plump. The connection? The license plate prefix for France's Gironde region is 33. 
NATIONAL 
Quayle plans for a writing career 
• WASHINGTON -Did Dan Quayle have a final word for the press as he left Washington after four years as vice 

president? As a matter of fact he did have a final word­just one. "Goodbye," he told reporters. After seeing George Bush off to Texas, Quayle and his wife, Marilyn, headed to Florida for two days in the sun. They return Friday night and will remain in the Washington area until their two youngest children finish up the school year and the family moves to Indiana. There, Quayle plans to write a book and figure out what he will do in the future. In interviews last week, Quayle ruled out running for any office other than president -but said he doesn't know whether he will run or not. 

Critics: Hillary cannot dress herself 
• NEW YORK -The word is in on Hillary Clinton's Inaugural Day wardrobe: loved her, hated the hat. Hatmakers and fashion critics blew their tops over the big, blue velour number that capped Hillary's outfit at Wednesday's festivities, particularly when she wore the hat indoors for a luncheon appearance. "It was a terrible looking hat. No style, no pizazz, no nothing," offered milliner Leo Marshall, president at Lenore Marshall Inc. in Manhattan. "It didn't become her. She picked the wrong hat." Agreed designer Cherie Jefferson-Lawrence: "She blew it big time." You re­member the hat -a cadet blue with the brim turned up in the front and turned down in the back, a satin band accented with a satin button. Hillary wore it with a large hat pin in the back. The Daily News described it as "a cross between Paddingti:m Bear's preferred headgear and 'Bowery Boy' Leo Gorcey's mashed-brim fedora." Ouch. With reviews like that, Hillary should be in the market for a crash helmet. 
~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


OF INTEREST 
• 
Beaux Arts Ball, the architecture students' costume ball, is coming Saturday from 9 p.m.-2 a.m. to the Archi­tecture Building. Bughaus will play in the lobby. Tickets are available at both dining halls and at the door. Free Nerf Balls will be given the first 100 people through the door. 

• 
Spanish Mass will be celebrated at 11:30 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips Hall chapel. The celebrant will be Father Richard Warner. 

• 
Neighborhood Study Help Program (NHSP) will have an organizational meeting on Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. NSHP tutors about 400 kids in the South Bend area at 22 different locations and times. Transportation is provided. Questions, call Paul at 634-3322. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 21 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 301,523,350 -0.46 to 236.74 S&P COMPOSITE -0.86 to 504.59 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -8.11 to 3286.25 
GOLD -$0.50 to 5329.30 
SILVER -$0.015 to $3.725 

• 
NDBICD organizational meeting for old and new members will be on Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, on the 2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center. In­ternships and plans for the semester will be discussed. 

• 
Students for Environmental Action will hold its semester organizational meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center. 

• 
NO Mission Volunteers' Debbie Brady will visit Saint Mary's Monday to talk to students interested in volunteer work after graduation. .She will be in Madeleva Hall outside Carroll Auditorium 9 a.m. to noon and in the Le Mans Lobby from 1-4:30 p.m. Questions, call Sister Betty Smoyer at 284-5392. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1905: Marches in St. Petersburg ended in a massacre of over 500 as Russian czar Nicho-Nicholas II ordered his troops to fire on the unarmed protestors. 

• 
In 1934: Paris police arrested nearly 750 people as Communists and Royalists battled. 

•In 
1968: U.S. B-52's with four H-bombs crashed in a bay in Greenland. 

• 
In 1973: The Supreme Court ruled in the case of Roe v Wade that states could not outlaw abortion. 

• 
In 1978: The South African government detained 23 journalists after attendance at an anti-government meeting. 

• 
In 1989: The labor movement Solidarity approved a negotiation offer from the Polish government. 




Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 3 

Computer industry changing focus 


Ryden to speak 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
News Writer 
Vassula Ryden, who ac· cording to her testimony has seen and spoken to Jesus and occasionally the Blessed Virgin Mary, wtll present "Conversations with Jesus," at Stepan Center on Jan. 24 at 4 p.m. 
Ryden is one of the most unusual ecumenists of our time, according to Father Edward O'Connor, an asso* ciate professor of theology. 
"Ryden has an incredible story to tell," said O'Connor. "I think it will be interesting for all to see." 
Ryden said she hadn't set foot into a church more than ten times throughout her lifetime. 
"I didn't even go to Christmas Mass," she said. 
But in November of 1985 Ryden claimed her life com­pletely changed. 
"I felt in my body a kind of supernatural vibration that was flowing through my hands," Ryden said in the in­troduction to her book "True Ufe In God." 
"I had been writing a shopping list, but my hand began to shake and the pencil was too strong for me to control. It was my guardian angel. He began to write spiritual messages," she explained. 
Ryden said she experi­enced communication with the angel for about three months and then one day Jesus came and asked her, "which house is more im­portant, yours or mine?" It was then that Ryden pledged to live her life for Christ. 
Ryden said that after nearly three years of daily communication with Jesus, He asked her to go public with His messages. 
Ryden has published nearly 2,000 of the mes* sages. She holds monthly meetings to reveal the mes­sages of Christ. Each meet­ing lasts about an hour and a half and anywhere between 150·200 people at* tend. 
During her lecture Ryden will deal mainly with the story of her life, her mes* sages, and her daily com* munication with Jesus. 
Many people are skeptical of Ryden but O'Connor said he hopes people attend the event "to make their own decision." 
"Conversations with Je* sus," is sponsored by the Knights of Columbus. 

Welcome Back Student's January Lunch Special 
Free Soup with any Sandwich Purchase. 
After II a.m. please 
Open at 6:30 a.m. daily 
Serving 
ND/SMC 
Students for 
27 years 



TANUARY SPECIAL 
• 

Oven baked 4-egg 
Jumbo Omelettes 
$J00 offall month 
no coupon needed 
U.S. 31(Dixieway) North in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 
272-7433 Just North of Campus 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
The personal computer in­dustry no longer focuses on business computing, but on business communications, ac­cording to Gary Gigot, market­ing vice-president for the Mi­crosoft Corporation. 
Gigot, a 1972 Notre Dame graduate, gave a lecture Thursday on "Microsoft Mar­keting: An Insider's View of a Dynamic Industry." 
Gigot listed "great reviews," "demonstrations," "timely promotions," and "learning and adjusting" as the fundamentals to successful software marketing. 
Strategies that Gigot men­tioned in software marketing included "Hit hard, hit fast, hit often," "be creative," and "give large promises in advertise­ments." 
Gigot showed the newest fea­tures of Microsoft's software in­cluding a function that enables the computer to act as a VCR, an encyclopedia on a compact disc that can be used on the computer, and a series of new organizational programs for databases. 
"Our biggest asset is our 
register base of customers," Gigot said. He also described ways to keep a customer com­ing back, including working with other companies and cus­tomers when developing new software, using new hardware to create new software, devel­oping an image, and giving customers what they want and expect. 
Gigot described how "Make it easier," Microsoft's motto, is being used to develop goals for their future such as making it easier to use personal comput­ers, get help, solve business problems, work with other people, and to learn new things. 


Tumblers introduced in NOH Bombing of 
By SHANNON DEVERNA 
News Writer 
Larger plastic tumblers have replaced the old glasses at the North Dining Hall as a result of student feedback on recent questionnaires and student re­quest cards, according to North Dining Hall head manager Jill Riggs. 
North Dining Hall switched to the tumblers "because of cost reasons," she said. Although the tumblers are more expen­sive than glasses, Riggs expects that costs will decrease in the future since fewer tumblers will have to be replaced. 
The tumblers will also be used at South Dining Hall eventually. "What we did was ship all our glasses to South Dining Hall," Riggs explained. "When their stock is low, then we will use the tumblers there." 
Riggs said it will take awhile to see the economic benefits of using the tumblers, but the switch has already greatly re­duced congestion, especially during lunchtime, at North Dining Hall. Use of the tum­blers has also helped to streamline the dish line process in the kitchen, she said. 

Students and employees re­sponded positively to the use of tumblers. Sophomore Jutta Reinhardt from Pangborn Hall said she likes the convenience of only taking one tumbler in­stead of many glasses. 
Employee Doug McKenna said workers' jobs are easier because there are fewer glasses to take off the trays and wash. 
Riggs agrees the greatest ad­vantage of using tumblers is that "people were taking four to six of the small glasses, but now they are taking (only) one to two." 





The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
SMC Day Editor 
who can work M,W,F afternoon at the SMC Observer office in Haggar. Applications will be taken until Friday at either office. Contact Anna Marie Tabor at 631-4540 for more information. 




271~1177 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 
r---,,----, r-------, r-:-------:-1 
I 1--14 .Larg~ I 1 4... 14" Large 1 1 Late Night Special 1 I 1 Topplng Plzza I I 1 'Toppt'ng I I 1--14" Large I 
with Stix and 2 cans ll I of soda I I Pizzas I I 1 Topping Pizza I I I I I I $595 I
I $1QOO +Tax I I $1995 I I -+Tax I
+Tax 

.Offer expires 2/1. ~ I I . . . ......I II . . .after 9:00p.m...I Additional Toppmgs .95¢ each liii.JUIIIr$. AdditiOnal Toppmgs .95¢ each Addmonal Toppmgs .95¢ each • INnt Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J

----------Iiiii-------liliil------­
Iraqi sites continues 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -A cease-fire proclaimed as a "goodwill gesture" to President Clinton broke down Thursday when U.S. jets bombed a radar site. Baghdad denied it pro­voked the action, but promised to uphold the truce. 
U.N. weapons inspectors, meanwhile, arrived in Iraq to resume work after a more than two-week hiatus caused by the current confrontation. 
Pentagon officials said two 
U.S. warplanes fired on and bombed an Iraqi air defense radar site in northern Iraq after radar was turned on them -a preliminary step to firing missiles. The Pentagon said Iraqi anti-aircraft guns also shot at the allied planes. 
A statement carried by the Iraqi News Agency quoted an unnamed Foreign Ministry spokesman as denying any radar had been turned on in the northern "no-fly" zone. He said U.S. cluster bombs had set ablaze a fertilizer storage area and damaged crops, but there were no casualties. 
But he said, "Iraq still abides by its declared cease-fire de­spite the behavior of the U.S. plane, which was aggressive and provocative." 
There was no immediate U.S. assessment of the damages, the Pentagon said. 


PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
((omSfQ9

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 

DAYTONA BEACH rromS 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

PANAMA CITY BEACH rromS Bf 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

STEAMBOAT . ((omSf29 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

MUSTANG ISLAND/ PORT ARANSAS lromSfJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
,0

HILTON HEAD ISLAND mSf2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

FORT LAUDERDALE rromSf46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 

1·800·321·5911 



1,500,000 
1,200,000 900,000 600,000 300,000 
0 




WHO? 
Age 




Previous children 



WHEN? 

l 

References 
HOW MANY? United Srares Depanmenr of Commerce, Economics, and Statistical Administration, Statistical Abstract of th~ United Stat~s. 199 I. WHERE? Richard Lacayo. "Abortion: The Future b Already Here," Ttme. May 4. 1992. p. 21J. WHO? United States Depanment of Health and Human Ser.i<:cs, Cenrer for Disease Control~. Ahortion Surveillance Report, May JIJ83. WHY? Rush Limbaugh. The Way Thin11s Ou11ht 1(, Be. Pocket Books, IIJ92. p. 5 I. HOW? "Fact Sheet: What b Abortion'.'" National Abortion Federation. May 19!!6; American Portrait Films, "The Silent Scream," 191!4; American Medical Asso­ciation. Woman t'a". Random House, 1984. p. 214. WHEN? United States Department of Health and Human Services, Center for Disea...· Controls. Abortion Surveillance Report. May 19!!.1 
Graphic Design BRENDAN REGAN 

~~--....~..................~--~.-~--~--~~--.-------~~~~----------------~~~----------------------------------~------------------­
. I
I • I ""' ~ The Observer 
qll_ 1973 20 YEARS 1993 ' ~ 

A look at legalized abortion in the United States 
HOW MANY? WHERE? 



WHY? 
Not ready for responsibility 211% Could not afford child 211% Child would alter lifestyle 16% Relationship pro~lem 12% 
N~~I'Tl-~!IJ~E!~_n_~gh 11% Enough ch,dren already 8% Mot~er's health 3% Chil~'s health 3% !jape or incest 1% 
D 
States where both houses 0 States where both houses 0 States where both houses Otheq 4% support keeping abortion legal are very close or are split favor criminalizing abortion 

HOW? 
Methods of performing abortions include Dilation and Evacuation, Saline Injection, 
and on rare occasions Hysterotomy. The most common method, accounting 
for 95% of abortions annually, is Suction Aspiration, illustrated below. 

, The woman lies on an examining table with her 
'. feet in stirrups. The doctor inserts a closed speculum into the vagina, then opens it to hold the vaginal walls apart and visualize the cervix, which is usually numbed with a local anesthetic. Occasionally there are medical or psychological reasons to put the woman to sleep briefly with a general anesthetic; most abortions, however, can be comfortably and more safely per­formed with the use of a local anesthetic. 
Through the open speculum the doctor in­
Tenaculum 
serts a tenaculum, which firmly grasps the cervix when clamped shut. The doctor then inserts a long, narrow instrument (sound) to ascertain the depth and size of the uterus. 

The doctor gradually widens 
the opening of the cervix by 
inserting and removing a series of 
narrow, tapered rods, or dilators, one at a 
time, increasing the size of the dilator each time 
until the opening is approximately 1/2-inch in diameter. Amniotic sac --· 


Cross section from side shows vag­inal speculum 
Straight-on view (cervix) 


The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 
Among some of the other
O'Meara topics that were addressed by No timetable for withdrawal of combat O'Meara was "sexual harass­ment". The. University has had
continued from page 1 
some problems with the issue of 
troops in Somalia set by United States 
O'Meamra. "We should try to be 
sexual harassment and some 
a significant force in all arenas and in all academic areas." added O'Meara. 
"The voice of the academy should be heard more clearly, because it is my belief that the faculty should play an impor­tant role in transmitting the Catholic beliefs," O'Meara said. "I hope the faculty takes a seri­ous response to minorities, to women and to the Catholic identity." 
He added, " We need to talk about what is the nature of a Catholic university." 

Crash 
continued from page 1 
after rush hour Monday morn­ing in Gary. The collision oc­curred near a narrow trestle where two tracks converge and overlap. 
Four crew members -the engineer and conductor from each train -have been sus­pended with pay while the in­vestigation continues 
An official with the Northern Indiana Commuter Transporta­cases have been brought for­ward. 
"I want to talk about this issue and mention that it is necessary for us to significantly strengthen what the community will and will not tolerate in this University," said O'Meara. 
O'Meara thanked the Faculty Senate for their input which he considered very useful in future decisions. 
"I like to express how happy and pleased I am with the new governance and the work they have done," O'Meara said. 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) ­Some American troops the United States had hoped to pull out of Somalia before or soon after President Clinton's inau­guration could remain until as late as March, a U.S. military spokesman said Thursday. 
Marine Col. Fred Peck said no timetable could be set until the 
U.N. Security Council adopts a resolution necessary to transfer control of the U.S.-led relief operation to a U.N. peacekeeping force. 
The United Nations also must name a commander and de­termine the rules of engage­ment, including under what conditions U.N. peacekeepers can open fire. 
The lawlessness of this nation was demonstrated once again Thursday when a Chinese re­porter was seriously wounded and his Somali driver killed by roving gunmen. American troops have fired freely to pro­tect themselves, but U.N. troops usually face restrictions. 
In New York, the U.S. Mission to the United Nations urged the tion District said earlier that David Riordan, engineer of one of the trains in Monday's colli­sion. had been demoted for a previous crash, in which he was a dispatcher. 
Attorney Craig Braje today said Riordan was not demoted, and had asked for a change in jobs two years after the 1985 accident. The transportation district did not immediately return calls this morning seeking a clarification. 

R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
Security Council to begin the preparations for a transfer of power. 
The European Parliament. meeting in Strasbourg, France, called on the world body to draw up a "Marshall Plan for Somalia" to rebuild the country. 
More than 1,100 Marines re­turned home to Camp Pendle­ton, Calif., earlier this week, most of them from the 3rd Bat­talion, 9th Marine Regiment, in the first withdrawal of U.S. forces since they landed last on Dec. 9. 
Peck said he did not foresee another withdrawal at this time. 
He said that by the end of January the conditions would . be acceptable to the U.S. mili­tary to turn over the security of some humanitarian relief work. But U.N. officials have indicated this could not be accomplished by then. So far, draft texts for a 
U.N. resolution are not even being circulated. 
Other U.S. sources said U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali apparently 
wanted to deal with the new administration of Clinton and get his feeling on things. They spoke on condition of anonymity. 
A U.S.-led coalition of 20 na­tions has been trying to secure and rebuild Somalia from a famine and civil war that claimed 350,000 lives last year. Another two million are con­sidered at risk. 
Peck said that once a U.N. resolution is adopted and the rules of engagement set, it would take U.S. forces two weeks to complete the transfer of military control. Then would come redeployment or, in lay­man's terms, sending the troops home. 
"We've got a redeployment plan but we need about five days to start it," said Peck. "And that redeployment plan takes six to eight weeks, maybe longer, depending upon a lot of conditions over which we don't have control, like weather and aircraft availability and ships getting in here." 
disclosed it to transition offi­cials. 
There was an air of confusion as Clinton's new team -inex­perienced in the ways of the White House -searched for telephone numbers, directions and a general plan of operation. Reporters were angry about restrictions on access to press offices that were always open in previous administrations. 
Eager to begin putting his policies into effect, Clinton will move quickly to revoke the ban on homosexuals in the military, despite grumbling from the Pentagon. officials said. An ex­ecutive order is expected within a week. 
Clinton also plans to act Fri­
day -the 20th anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion -on execu­tive orders expanding abortion rights. 


Clinton 
continued from page 1 

The new president sa.id he was sticking with the Bush administration's policy, which called for instant strikes against belligerent forces and mea­sured responses to violations of "no-fly" zones imposed in Iraq by Gulf War allies. 
"We're going to adhere to our policy," Clinton told reporters during a picture-taking ceremony with his staff. "We're going to stay with our policy. It is the American policy and that's what we're going to stay with." 
Later, White House commu­nications chief George Stephanopoulos said, "Everything right now is con­sistent with the previous prac­tice, and President Clinton sup­ports it." 
On Capitol Hill, the Senate confirmed nine of Clinton's Cabinet members and five other top officers. Nevertheless, hundreds of senior positions remained open, some of them filled still by holdovers from the Bush administration. 
Zoe Baird, Clinton's nominee for Attorney General, faced growing public and congres­sional opposition over her hir­ing of illegal aliens for house­work. Stephanopoulos said Clinton still believed she would be a good attorney general. He said he wasn't sure if she had discussed her situation with Clinton before he announced her selection, although she had 

r 


SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a fresh-By the time you have graduated from man or sophomore, you can still catch college, you'll have the c~edentials of up to your classmates by attending an Army officer. You ll also have Army ROTC Camp Challenge, a the self-confidence and diSCipline paid six-week summer course in it takes to succeed m college leadership training. and beyond. 

ARMYROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
CONTACT CAPTAIN SELLING AT 631-6265 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
No one prepares you for the MCAT bet1w than Kaplan. Our MCAT prep course teaches you exactly what the test covers and the test· taking skills you'll need to score your best. We otf&f' live cl...-, tlon1e study notes, and audio review. P1ua, no one else has a more extensive MCAT resource library than Kaplan. 


KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat qu-tion. 
-------------~­

page 6 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 
Swim 
continued from page 1 
you," said WHish. 
Th!~ "Notre Dame family" is something for which the swimmers have a new appre­ciation. Seott has gotten letters and cards from the administra­tion, the athletic department, students, the team, people who've graduated-people she doesn't even know. "You can't even understand it if you haven't experienced it," she said. 
The team also found support from each other and from swimllling itself. Although the men's team is sometimes overlooked with the focus giv~m to the women, "they've given a tremendous amount of support for all of us," said senior Tanya Williams. Having the whole team together also helped, she added. 
For some, the greatest amount of healing came from simply swimming. Welsh worked hard to make practices a "safe" place, a time when the team knew exactly what was expected of them. . 
"Practice is normal," said Welsh. "It's the same thing they've done since they were 10 years old." 
Focusing strictly on swim­ming in practice "works out re­ally well," said Broderick, not only for the swimmers, but also for the coaches. "They know what they have to do at prac­tice," she said. They've been through the same thing every­one else has, but Broderick thinks they feel "they have to be stronger, to lead the way." 
The practices gave many swimmers something stable to hold onto in the middle of the 
turmoil. "I put all my energies 
into swimming," Broderick 
said. "For me, swimming was 
essential." 

Welsh saw swimming as not 
only a piece of normality but a 
way to increase confidence. 
Whatever else is going on, 
when the gun goes off, the 
fastest swimmer to the end of 
the pool still wins the race, said 
Welsh. 

"Swimming measures success 
in terms of how fast you go. We 
can't hide from that and we 
don't want to," he said.· 
For the swimmers, improving their times "gives a level of confidence that nothing I can say equals." 
For now, the team is focusing on making it through this month and its list of "firsts:" first anniversary of the acci­dent. first bus trip, first return to Chicago. 
Welsh compared it to the team's trip up Mount Camel­back during a training session in Phoenix. It was difficult climbing up, but "when we fin­ished we knew we were on the top," he said. "Once there, you know you're going to make it back down." 
The accident may be a year behind them, but its repercus­sions will last forever. "The memory will be here, the dedi­cation will remain, the com­mitmHnt will remain," said We Ish. "It will still be here even if every coach and mem­ber leave. 
"The changes it brought to to our lives and the reorientation it brought to our lives' priori­ties, that lasts forever, and that's where the winning is." 
To Broderick, it's a little bit simpler. "Of course we keep going to school and swimming. What else would we do?" 


Earn$$$$ for 
SPRING BREAK Waiters, Waitresses and Food Services help needed for JPW Catering Events February 15--21 Sign Ups will start Monday, January 25 10 a.m.--4 p.m. Basement of SDH 
JPW 1993 

Meghan Beeler Colleen Hipp 
Beeler and Hipp 
Memorial Masses 

Sacred.Heart Basilica Sunday, 11:45 a.m. 
Lewis Hall chapelMonday, 10 p.m. 
Walsh Hall chapel Sunday, 10:30 p.m. 
I....,...o•.•• ~··-~..o••o•• 

Scott is team's inspiration 
By BECKY BARNES Assistant News Editor 

To the members of the women's swim team, she is an inspiration. 
Haley Scott, severely injured in last year's bus accident that claimed the lives of Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp, was excited a year ago when she could move just one toe. 
Today, after three operations this summer, she is back in the water, if only kicking around. 
Although Scott's initial recov­ery from the accident was swift arid she was swimming after only 10 weeks, setbacks oc­curred which required the ad­ditional surgery. The whole process just left her "wiped out," she said, and coming back to school was the best thing she could do. 
"I was just so excited to come back," she said. "School is where I should be." 
Here she's surrounded by the swim team she has grown so close to. She lives with swim­mers, goes to practices, and covers meets for The Observer. 
Surrounded by the team and trying to regain her health, the accident is still very much a part of Scott's life. "It's not something I can really forget. 
still am healing," she said. 
Looking back, Scott can't be­lieve how much has happened in one year. "My whole life has gone by really fast, but it also feels like my whole life has been this year," she said. 
Other team members have been able to bury memories, at least momentarily, by concen­trating on swimming, but in­juries have denied Scott this uut. Before the accident Scott knew she could forget about a bad day by going to practice. "Now it seems like the hardest time in my life I don't have swimming," she said. 
But she's doing all right. She's learned to deal with anger and frustration in other ways. and right now is just happy to be back in the water. 
"I laley is an inspiration to all of us," said senior swimmer Tanya Williams. 
But an "inspiration" is a role Scott doesn't quitn understand. "To me, what I've done is just what I needed to do for myself." she said. 
If she has helpPd anyone else, she only sees it as giving back something she has been given. ''I'm gladl've inspired somnone is some way," she said. 

HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES ITALIAN AND ECONOMICS 
ALL YOU CAN EAT 


SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 


$5.95 

TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 
·;_-~,
-_~,~~,,~_, .~-! 




~ 
Talk about a heavy course load. If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll give you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad and warm garlic breadsticks. .,• · It's all just $5.95. And you -,r-c, ~ 
don't have to be a math OtiPf.~ 
major to figure out that • 
that's a great deal. UALIAN Hl.~fAf.tH1\N I 
J..f: ;; 
--:t~_ .. _._r
WHERE ALLThE B 

-~' . 
• Opposite University 
Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 7 

Cabinet members confirmed Clinton still seeks repeal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate confirmed 14 more top officers in President Clinton's administration with scant resis­tance on Thursday, hurrying action to give the new president a fast start. 
Nine Cabinet officers -in­cluding Ron Brown as Com­merce Secretary, Donna Shalala as Health Secretary and Robert Reich as Labor Secretary ­were authorized by voice vote as the Senate rushed to help the first Democratic president in a dozen years. 
Brown's vote came after a brief afternoon debate in which Republicans said they'd re­solved concerns over his lawyer-lobbyist relationships. Earlier, the Senate approved eight Cabinet secretaries in a single voice vote. 
Five more top officials -in­cluding Rep. Leon Panetta of California to head the Office of Management and Budget ­were approved, also. 
Zoe Baird, the nominee for attorney general was the only one facing serious controversy -over her hiring of illegal aliens and failing, until her nomination, to pay Social Secu­rity taxes for them. Despite growing public and congres­sional opposition, she won a renewed commitment from Clinton's spokesman and was still favored to be approved eventually. 
Bruce Babbitt, the Interior Secretary-designate, was pressed again by the Senate Energy Committee on his envi­ronmental ties Thursday, but was then endorsed 20-0. 
Laura D'Andrea Tyson, Clin­ton's choice to head the Council 
Senate approves new members 
WASHINGTON (APl -.. Clinton administration offi~ cials confirmed yesterday by the Senate: 
• 
Donna Sbalala as Secre~ tary of the Department of Health and HumanServices. 

• 
Leon Panetta as l.)irector of the Office of Management and Budget. 

• 
Mike Espy as Agriculture Secretary. 

• 
Robert Reich as Labor Secretary. 

• 
Henry Cisneros as Seere~ .... tary of Housing and Urban Development. ··· 

• 
Hazel O'Leary as Energy Secretary. 

• 
Richard Riley as Edtica~ tion Secretary. 

• 
Jesse Brown as Veterans Affairs Secretary. · · 

• 
Federico Pena as Trans-·••· portation Secretary. 

• 
Carol Browner as Admin­istrator ofthe Environmental ·....· 


Protection Agency. •·• 
• 
Roger Altman as deputy treasury secretary. 

• 
Mickey Kantor as U.S~ ·· · trade representative. 


• Alice Rivlin as deputy di· 
rector of the Office of Man~ ·.· agement and Budget. .·.• 
of Economic Advisers, was be­ing readied for confirmation by the Senate Banking Committee. 
"The president and the members of his administration will be pleased by the prompt action taken by the Senate," said Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine. 
There was little Republican 
opposition, "They've met the test," Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said of the -nominees. ''I'm pleased to co­operate with ... the incoming 
administration." 

During the Brown debate, 
Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., said 
the former chairman of the 
Democratic Party had sold his 
stock and ended his association 
with several companies, resolv­
ing potential conflict-of-interest 
concerns. 

"He has taken the proper 
steps," Lott said. "I have with­
drawn my reservations ... and 
any effort to hold up confirma­
tion." 

Besides Shalala and Reich, 
the other Cabinet secretaries 
approved Thursday were: Rep. 
Mike Espy, D-Miss., as Agricul­
ture Secretary; former San An­
tonio Mayor Henry Cisneros as 
Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development; and Minnesota 
utility executive Hazel O'Leary 
as ~nergy Secretary. 

Also, former South Carolina 
Gov. Richard Riley as Education 
Secretary; Disabled American 
Veterans executive Jesse Brown 
as Veterans Affairs Secretary; 
and former Denver Mayor 
Federico Pena as 
Transportation Secretary. 

Others confirmed were: Florida environmental official Carol Browner to be adminis­trator of the Environmental Protection Agency; investment banker Roger Altman to be deputy treasury secretary; budget scholar Alice Rivlin to be deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget; and lawyer and former Clinton campaign chairman Mickey Kantor to be U.S. trade repre­sentative. 

of ban on gays in military 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton will move quickly to revoke the ban on homosex­uals in the military, despite persistent grumbling from the Pentagon, officials said Thurs­day. 
Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., said that Clinton will soon direct Defense Secretary Les Aspin to draw up an executive order formally lifting the ban. 
In the interim, the president will order the military to stop asking recruits about their sex­ual orientation or discharging members of the armed services found to be gay, said Frank, who is gay. 
"Immediately, the policy of kicking people out of the mili­tary because they're gay will be out," said Frank, who was con­sulted by the new administra­tion about the policy. 
Aspin was to meet Thursday with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the homosexual military ban was on the agenda. 
"The boys are going to tell him (Aspin) that it just won't fly," said a senior military offi­cer, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Clinton spokesman George Stephanopoulos did not confirm Frank's comments, but when asked if the two-step process would fulfill Clinton's campaign promise on the matter, the spokesman said: "Absolutely." 
He said Clinton hopes to have an announcement on the deci­sion in the next week. 
Discussing problems that have to be worked out, Frank said, "There are people who may have a very strong preju­dice against homosexuals and wouldn't want to share living quarters. You might want to accommodate that for awhile." 
"The threat of violence (against homosexuals) is very real." said a senior officer. "If anyone thinks they can eradi­cate prejudice in society by im­posing a policy on one segment of it -the military -they are dead wrong," he said. 
Frank and an administration source said it could take months to complete work 'on the executive order. but the ban will effectively end once Clinton tells Aspin to draft the measure. 
"From the standpoint of the gay people in the military it makes no difference whatso­ever" when the executive order actually is signed, Frank said. 

Gore begins first day as VP 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Al Gore's first full day as vice pres­
I

ident was a mix of hosting, greeting and meeting. He per­formed his first duty as presi­dent of the Senate on Thursday by swearing in a new senator from Texas. 
Gore went to the White House but did not visit his new office, 


Spring Break Seminars 
h;1arch 7-13, 1993 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 

Service Learning at one of seven sites in the Appalachian region One~credi t Theology Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 26, 7:30-8:00 


CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Information meeting: Thurs., Jan. 28, 4:00-4:30 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

Poverty and Democracy in America 
Direct Contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. One credit Theology Information meeting: Mon., Jan. 25, 7:00-7:30 PM 


Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due Soon 
aides said. Instead he and his wife, Tipper, joined Bill and Hillary Clinton to welcome the winners of a lottery that al­lowed ordinary citizens into the White House for the first day of the new administration. 
Gore also joined Clinton at a meeting of the top White House staff, but in true vice presiden­tial fashion let his boss do the talking. 
Later he went back to his old stomping grounds in the Senate to swear in Texas Sen. Bob Krueger. Krueger who was ap­pointed by Texas Gov. Ann Richards to fill the seat vacated when Clinton named Lloyd 
AI Gore 
Bentsen treasury secretary. 
When Gore walked into the Senate, where he represented his home state of Tennessee before becoming Clinton's running mate, onlookers in the Senate gallery applauded loudly. Gore quipped, ''I'm told that demonstrations are not al­lowed in the gallery normally." 
Thursday's schedule was light on official duties, but included what will now be a daily ritual -a briefing on national security matters from the CIA. 

A 








--URl»il
I l 


-~-­

~---~~ 
-~ sponsored by Student Activities 
.....-----------~--~----...-------­
page 8 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 
--------------~---~­

The Observer/Sue Kehias 
Art Exhibitor 

Visiting artist Eve Faulkes sets up an exhibition of her work in the Isis Gallery on t~e third fl?or of Riley. She and visiting artist Clifford Harvey gave a lecture at 7:30, followed by the open1ng of the1r show. 
Suit filed in Talihook scandal 
LAS VEGAS (APJ -The first woman to go public with the Tailhook scandal filed a lawsuit fhursday charging promoters and hosts knew previous gath­erings of the Naval aviators had been drunken melees that de­graded women. 
At least 26 women say they were groped, fondled and sex­ually accosted during the San Diego-based Tailhook Associa­tion's September 1991 conven­tion. Some say they were forced down a gauntlet of men lining a third noor hallway at the Las Vegas Hilton. 
The scandal prompted the resignation of Navy Secretary 
II. Lawrence Garrett Jll and held up the promotions of some 6,000 Navy and Marine Corps officers. But none of the esti­mated 1,500 officers and former officers who attended the gathering have been charged with any crime. 
The lawsuit filed in U.S. Dis­trict Court by Navy Lt. Paula Coughlin was the fifth to result from the scandal. Four women who were at the 1990 conven­tion filnd similar lawsuits last Septembnr. 
Coughlin aecusns the Tail­hook Association and the Las Vegas llilton of negligence and seeks unspecified damages. 
Both llilton and Tailhook of­ficials knnw that "previous conventions degennrated into rambunctious drunken mnlees with conduct by the convention attnndnes that was neither honorable nor becoming offi­cnrs of tlw United States mili­tary." the lawsuit statnd. 
Hon Thomas, executive direc­tor of the Tailhook Association, said he hadn't seen the lawsuit and couldn't comment. 
Hilton spokesman Marc (;rossman said pn~viously that hotnl officials "acted properly and did nothing wrong." 
SECURITY BEAT 
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 20 

9:30 p.m. Several Flanner Hall residents reported the theft of numerous Items some time between 9:30 and 11 :00 p.m. Residents said some Individuals were soliciting coupons but they are not under suspicion at this time. Notre Dame Security advises anyone who sees someone suspicious in a dorm to contact them. They also note that solicitation In 
dorms Is not an authorized practice. 
Exposure to tobacco high in U.S .. 
ATLANTA (AP) -The first 800 people in a massive federal study of exposure to tobacco smoke had signs of nicotine in their bodies whether they smoked or not, researchers said Thursday. 
"We really weren't expecting that," said Dr. James Pirkle of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The CDC is testing 23,000 Americans over age 4 for coti­nine, a byproduct of nicotine that is found in blood serum. The researchers found cotinine in all of the first 800 people tested. 
The preliminary results came two weeks after an Environ­mental Protection Agency re­port that labeled secondhand smoke a carcinogen and said it kills about 3,000 nonsmokers a year from lung cancer alone. Critics have said the EPA failed to document how many people are exposed to secondhand smoke and at what levels. 
"What we're doing will meet that objection head-on," Pirkle said. "We have a very sensitive method of measuring exposure that separates active from pas­sive smoke. It will allow us to figure out the extent of the problem using an objective measure -that's a pretty rare thing." 
In contrast to many earlier studies that relied on partici­pants to describe their exposure to smoke, the CDC is using sophisticated technology to measure the remnants of smoke in blood serum. 
People with more than 10 to 15 nanograms of cotinine per milliliter of serum are usually smokers or use nicotine patches or gum, the CDC said. Levels below 10 to 15 nanograms indicate a person has breathed secondhand smoke. A nanogram is a billionth of a gram. 
The 800, ages 4 to 91, had levels that ranged from less than 0.1 to 650 nanograms. 
The CDC wouldn't provide any more details, or even give the number of smokers and nonsmokers, saying it was too early to analyze the numbers or draw conclusions. 
The CDC will have more fig­ures when the study, which started in 1988, ends next year, Pirkle said. 
The agency seldom releases such preliminary figures, but did so Thursday because it wanted Americans to know it was working to answer ques­tions the EPA report raised about smoke exposure, Pirkle said. 
Even the early results were surprising, he said. 



SAVEs 
FoR 

SPRING BREAK! 
Student Employees needed for lunch hours 
Call SOH XO 123 or NOH X4246 
Teen killed, another injured in classroom s-hooting in LA 
LOS ANGELES (APJ -A powerful handgun taken to school by a teenager who feared gangs fired accidentally in a class Thursday, killing one student and wounding a sec­ond, police said. 
The .357-caliber Magnum fired when a 15-year-old reached into his book bag, said police Detective Dennis Coyne. The bullet passed through onn student's chest and struck and killed a 16-year-old boy at Fair­fax High School. 
The armed youth apologized to about 30 classmates and waited for police, teacher Charles Schwartz said. "I am sorry. I didn't mean to do it," students quoted the 15-year-old as saying. 
While Schwartz initially spec­ulated poor grades in the English class may have led to the gunfire, detectives said the shooting was apparently unin­tentional. 
"It was a tragic accident. It is a result of a gang problem," said Coyne, explaining that the 15-year-old apparently feared gang members and took the gun to school for protection. 
Gangs have plagued the campus, eight miles west of downtown, for years. 
"There was a bang. 1 saw one student down then another student down," Schwartz said. He said other students re­mained seated and were "extremely calm" until he ordered them out of the room. 
"I was petrified. I was cry­ing," said Mitra Shafighi, 15, who went to the side of the wounded 17 -year-old boy. "He was saying, 'I'm hurt. God help me.'" 
The gunman, whosn identity wasn't disclosed, was arrested minutes later and the weapon was confiscated, said Officer Bob Cox. 
Students said the 15-year-old had bnen was showing off the weapon in class before the shooting. 
The wounded student, whose name was withheld, was taken to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Doctors said his prognosis was good, said hospital 
spokeswoman Peggy  Frank  
Shall'.  
/  

The ninth grade English stu­dents were enrolled in a 20-day winter session. Many were tak­ing freshman English for a second time to qualify for grad­uation, principal Michael O'Sullivan said. 
"One minute it was business as usual and the next minute this thing happened," O'Sullivan said. 
Shortly after the shooting, O'Sullivan usnd the public ad­dress system to tell the 2,000 students that a classmate had been killed on campus but that classes would continue. Crisis counselors were sent to the school. 
Frankie Lee heard a news report about the shooting and she rushed to the school to pick up her 17 -year-old daughter. 
"This is scary, too scary," she said. "Why don't they have metal detectors? How could this happen?" 
Herb Graham, director of po­lice for the district's 650-plus campuses, said several schools use hand-held metal detectors at special events like football games but that walk-through detectors are impractical. 

The Department Of Music Presents 

Christine Rutledge & William Cemy In a faculty 
o/io{a ana Piano 1\g.cita[ 

Sunday, January 24, 1993, 2:00p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 
c
a 

The Huddle 



Bullpit Special 

lll..oiSIW...-!r' 

T\Wo hamburQers An order of larQe fries and A medium fountain drink ALL THIS FOR THE 
LOW 
PRICE OF 

$ 2.99 
OFFER COOD Spm -12am 
c
a 

Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 9 
Fighting continues the day after Bosnian Serbs agree to peace plan 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Serb warplanes blasted the eastern town of Srebrenica twice Thursday, a day after Bosnian Serbs agreed to a plan to bring peace to the war-ravaged state, Bosnian television reported. 
And in Gornji Vakuf in central Bosnia -where week-long Muslim-Croat clashes appeared to weaken their tenuous al­liance against Serbs -Croats again attacked Muslim posi­tions, the broadcast said. 
The Serbs' decision to drop demands for a separate state and consent to the peace plan may have been a tactic to buy time and consolidate their mili­tary grip. Fighting has intensi­fied in recent days as each side has tried to strengthen its bar­gaining position. 
On Thursday, Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic said Serbs cannot accept the pro­posed division of Bosnia into 10 provinces without holding a referendum. 

"We have to be very patient while adopting the maps, and we have to use a democratic way of setting up boundaries between the new provinces," the Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA quoted Karadzic as say­ing. 
Meanwhile, Bosnian officials rejected U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's conclusion that a Serb soldier acting alone in the killing of Bosnia's deputy prime minister two weeks ago. Hakija Turajlic was shot on the road to Sara­jevo from the airport while traveling in a U.N. convoy. 
"It was a very well-organized assassination," Bosnian Vice President Ejup Ganic told re­porters Thursday at U.N. head­quarters. 
In a Bosnian TV interview, Bosnian Foreign Minister Haris Sila:jdzic said he was not opti­mistic about the Geneva peace talks, saying he thought the Serbs would not abide by any agreement. 

"For me, personally, any kind of drawing of maps is the aggressors' achievement. So without any doubt we can see that the aggressor, through the shedding of blood, has achieved his goal," he said. 
Fighting in Bosnia broke out in March after Muslims and Croats declared independence from Serb-dominated Yu­goslavia. About 18,000 people have been killed, and probably many more, since Serbs took up arms to crush the separatists. 
Seventy percent of the repub­lic has been seized by Serbs, who made up one-third of Bosnia's prewar population. Croats occupy most of the re­maining territory. 
Discontent continues in Haiti 
tide into exile in September. One diplomat living in Haiti said the brief mutiny reflected con­tinuing unrest among troops and some officers up to the rank of colonel. 
He said soldiers and police are concerned that army chief Raoul Cedras will make conces­sions in negotiations to allow the return of Aristide, the na­tion's first democratically elected leader. 
The diplomat and a prominent businessman close to Prime Minister Marc Bazin also backed reports that soldiers had arrested an army major several days ago who had ordered them to give up their weapons. They spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
A Western diplomat, also demanding anonymity, mini­mized the importance of Wednesday's disturbance. But he said "neo-Duvalierist ele­ments" outside the army could be inciting the soldiers. The re­pressive Duvalier family dicta­torship ruled from 1957 to 1986. 
Rumors of a coup coinciding with President Clinton's inau­guration had been flying around the capital for weeks ahead of the gunfire Wednesday morning at Camp D'Application in suburban Petionville. Clinton said last week he would push for the restoration of democracy in Haiti. 
The incident followed meet­ings in the past week between army officers and the unruly rank-and-file over a U.N.-me­diated effort seeking to restore democracy. 
The Observer/Scott Schittl 
Environmentally Aware 
Siegfried senior Becky Eifert and off-Campus senior Maureen Brown give information on Recyclin' Irish. Recycling is fast be­coming a campus-wide activity. 
TAKE THE KEYS. CAU ACAB. TAKE ASTANO. 
fAifNOS DON'T lH fRifNOS DRIVf DRUNK 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -Discontent smoldered among the rank-and-file of Haiti's military a day after an attempted mutiny at a base out­side the capital, diplomats said Thursday. 
An army statement late Wednesday declared the brief mid-day revolt was over and said one soldier was arrested and four others fled. It called the disturbances "politically motivated" and did not elabo­rate. 
The disturbances were the first report of open insubordi­nation since the army sent President Jean-Bertrand Aris-

Cinema at the Snlte FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45  ~[NJ@)~~~~ PARTY DESTINATIONS CANCUN ~om $469 DAYTONA fio-n $109 BEST PRIICE GUARANTEED 1 (800)265-4654 T-R A vE:r-F--R Fi-E-­EARN BIG .... AND FREE TRAVEL O~ani.u a etudo!nt group 1<1 one or our boiJd.ay loet.tlonol  
Mass in memory of Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler + January 24, 1993 11:45 a.m. Sacred Heart Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C., Presider All are welcome to come give thanks for the lives of Meghan and Colleen and to pray for the continued healing of their families and friends  


"Nice Legs Sweety" 


IHicaliPIPY 2 nru 

1Bnrr~lhlcdlca1y~ 

From, Christy, BC, Carrie, Sean and the fellas on 4th floor 
page 10 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 











present 
•
1n 




A comedy in three acts 
Washington Hall January 21, 22, 23 8:10p.m. 
$4
$3
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune box office 50 students 50 
non...students 

Business 
Friday, January 22, 1993 page 11 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Econom~ im~roving from holiday sale§ · . · 
• WASHI GT N -Lifted by strong Christmas 
sal(:)s, th(lc economy is improving everywhere in the .Unlted States.but California, the Federal Reserve said in an assessment of economic conditions. The summary ofregionalbusiness actiVity released Thursday singled out retail sales as a bright spot lf said manufacturing also was improving witJlllttle upward pressure on prices, but cautioned that the job marketstill hasn't responded fully to the rising econorny. · 
Ja~anese company to invest in LTV 

British Air to invest In USAir stock 
• WASHINGTON -USAir announced today that British Airways is investing $300 million in the carrier through the purchase of a new series of convertible preferred stock. USAir Chairman Seth E. Schofield said the deal was approved by the boards of directors of both airlines and the transfer of funds took place earlier today. Both carriers said in December, when British Airways abandoned a $750 million offer for 44 percent 
'of USAir. that they would explore other ways of combining their businesses. British Airways wants a stake in USAir to give it access to passengers from throughout America. USAir wants money from British Airways to restore its business to financial health and would also benefit from access to transatlantic passengers from British Airway flights. 

• T LEDO-Chrysler Corp. said Thursday that sales of the Jeep Cherokee have been stronger than expected, averting the possible layoffs of hundreds of workers. Chrysler had planned to eliminate the second shift at its Jeep Parkway plant last year. The layoffs were postponed each time because of strong demand for the Cherokee, which is being sold this year at a lower price to keep it distinct from the new Grand Cherokee. Chrysler builds the Grand Cherokee at its new Jefferson North plant in Detroit. Plant spokesman Alan Miller said the second shift will continue through the 1993 model year, which ends in June. He said the decision was made after Chrysler officials reviewed current sales figures and production schedules .. The No. 3 auto maker said in December that it would in March decide the future ofthe Jeep Parkway plant's second shift. 

ND entrepreneurs teach business savvy 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 

Aspiring students learned what it takes to find success Tuesday at "Getting Cash for your Business," a seminar for The Entrepreneurs' Club. Business experts from the South Bend area answered questions and offered advice based on their experience. 
Speakers on the panel were Gene Cavanaugh, a Notre Dame graduate and the president of the Corporate Capital Division of First Source Bank, Christine Lauber, who owns an accounting firm, and James Masters, who received his un­dergraduate degree in 1974 and his MA and JD at Notre Dame and is now a partner at Nemeth, Masters, and Leone, one of Indiana's "top ten law firms." 
High personal motivation was stressed by the three speakers. Cavanaugh spoke of the neces­sity of a "a high level of drive and energy and the self-confi­deuce to take risks" to be a suc­cessful entrepreneur. He also emphasized "a belief that they can control their own destinies, the ability to learn from their failures, a long-term vision, and intense competition with self-imposed standards." 
Lauber, too, emphasized the importance of personal charac­teristics in achieving success in the business world. ''I'm a firm believer that businesses don't fail. I believe that people fail. If a business fails, it is because of a personality flaw," said Lauber. "There's a big differ­ence between someone who is an entrepreneur and someone who wants to be an employee. You have to think beyond where you are at the present. A business must be changing, and if you can't do it for yourself, then you'll never be able to do it for a business." 
Masters cited "unrealistic ex­pectations about how easy or difficult it will be to earn capi­tal" as one of the primary ob­stacles that entrepreneurs first face. Cavanaugh said that ven­ture capital usually comes from an single individual, or "angel," who has the money and the de­sire to help a new business. He mentioned other sources of capital, including private part­nerships and corporations, publicly-held venture firms, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, but he empha­sized that starting a business is not easy. "If you can't prove your business idea will work, you're not going to get any money, no matter how sound your idea is. You have to be willing to work very hard." 
Masters said, "Fifteen years ago the farthest thing from my mind was beginning a business of my own. Frankly, you just don't start running your own business. You have to work as an apprentice first. Get experi­ence. You don't understand what it is to own a business and manage people and funds, un­less you've worked for someone else." 

Accounting firm to conduct interviews 

By AMY SANTANGELO 
News Writer 

On February 18 representa­tives from the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen will be on campus conducting interviews for summer internships with the company. 
Two of the representatives who will be conducting the in­terviews were invited to give a presentation Wednesday night regarding summer job op­portunities. John Smith, a Notre Dame graduate, and Cecelia Kline are in charge of the interviewing process for the internships. Both work for Arthur Andersen in the Chicago office, but can place students in offices across the country. 
The main emphasis of the presentation focused on what students should do to make the 
P &G to team up with Wal-mart 

By MICHAEL WORKMAN 
News Writer 
Two of today's Fortune 500 companies are helping to change the structure of corpo­rate America with a simple, yet effective idea-teamwork. 
Five years ago the Procter & Gamble Company, makers of such products as NyQuil, Pam­pers, Scope, and Tide laundry detergent formed a partnership with Wai-Mart, one of the nation's leading retailers. 
This alliance was intended to maximize P&G's wide assortment of top quality products with Wal-Mart's retailing expertise. 
"Before the partnership, P&G had some what of an adversar­ial relationship with Wal-Mart," recalls Tom Muccio, Director of Wal-Mart Customer Business Development. 
"We did not think of them as an extension of the Procter & Gamble Company. They were merely a company we executed transactions with. Now, both sides realize the advantages of turning on the lights for one an­other." 
The idea for this partnership was not a hastily made deci­sion, said Muccio. This team concept was put forth approxi­mately six years ago by a committee comprised of Muccio and other P&G executives. 
The goal of this committee was to focus on where the company wanted to be in the year 2000, Muccio continued. 
Ron Johnson, a Customer Analyst for P&G, acknowledged, "that the partnership only makes sense. Because about 80 percent of our business comes from 20 percent of our customers, we feel that by im­proving the cooperation be­tween one another, no one loses." 
Muccio is quick to point out that "a big part of the relation­ship is trust, and it does not come from just sitting in the same room with one another. This is about how we can drive down costs and use the re­sources of both companies to provide tangible benefits to the consumer. By effectively work­ing together we improve the system so both companies can succeed." 
When asked about any initial resistance to the team concept, Muccio replied that, "Both companies have had little trou­ble adapting to each other's cul­ture. At first there were some minor problems in regard to recognition and career issues, but once people realized they were now part of a team, they were agreeable to functional sacrifice." 
After seeing the results of the team approach, Procter & Gamble has gradually restruc­tured its entire organization into these multi-functional units, and is currently using the same strategy with other retailers such as K Mart and Target. 
Each product unit has a 3 to 5 year, long term plan, said Muccio. "Procter & Gamble is a company that expeets to be a leader going into the 21st cen­tury, not a bleeder." 
interviewing process a success­ful one. Smith's examples re­ferred specifically to interview­ing with accounting students, yet the ideas and tips he gave are relevant to anyone who may interview. Smith emphasized the importance of researching a prospective firm, talking to people whd have already been through interviews, and discussing the situation with faculty members. 
During the presentation, Smith also gave a general out­line that Arthur Andersen uses when conducting an interview. He broke down the 30-45 minute interview into blocked time frames and what is gen­erally covered in those bloeks. 
Smith stressed that one should not be preoccupied by what he or she wants to say to the interviewer, but instead fo­cus on the information given by the interviewer. 
Smith also mentioned ways to make an interview go more smoothly and better one's chances of securing a position with the firm. One way he suggested was by anticipating questions. Organizing in one's mind the ideas that he or she wants the interviewer to note prior to arriving at the inter­view helps an interview move more smoothly and the impor­tant topics are diseussed in­stead of missed. He demon­strated the idea of anticipating and being prepared for any type of question by practicing with members of the audience. He threw out questions like "What do you like to do for fun?" and "If you were a piece of fruit, what kind would you be and why?" 




Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, January 22, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ..••......... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .•.......... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edttor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631·4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

NO community must live together Who will stop lobbyists' 
Dear Editor: people should be considered by justice. 

'revolving door' policy? 
With respect to Christiane all those who throw their empty Malcolm X realized that the Likely's letter which appeared slogans and slurs into our problem of racism must be Dear Editor: years.in The Observer on .Jan. 18, I papers all too quickly. fought from both sides, with I am writing in response to 
have a few words for Ms. Likely Robert E. Payne's comments understanding from each. He .Jeffrey O'Donnell's Jan. 19 let­The appointment of Hon and the entire Notre Dame may have been offensive to knew that, "In our mutual sin­ter entitled "Foreign Lobbyists Brown indicates that Mr. Clin­community. many members of our com­cerity we might be able to show Should Stay at Home." I agree ton was not serious about his In order to avoid offending munity and they may have been a road to the salvation of with Mr. O'Donnell's comments. proposal. This aetion caters to 
Ms. Likely and speak from ig­inappropriate. But must the America's very soul. It can only There is a serious problem in the already existing "anything norance, I will defer to a man response to one man's in­be salvaged if human rights and Washington, D.C. High-level goes attitude" in Washingtonwho must surely pass Ms. sensitivity necessarily entail the dignity, in full, are extended to government officials act as and in government in the entire Likely's test for "knowing what indictment of the entire white [all people]. lobbyists on behalf of their nation. William Greider in his he is talking about". The writer student body here at Notre Only such real, meaningful clients at law firms or for for­
book Who Will Tell the People 
was a witness to and victim of Dame as racist? actions as those which are sin­eign interests. has called Washington a 
blatant, vicious, and, sadly, le­To say that "the majority of cerely motivated from a deep I was appalled when Ron "lawless society." galized racism. However, he white people here don't like" sense of humanism and moral Brown was appointed to be had the courage to think for blacks is irresponsible and un­responsibility can get at the Commerce Secretary. As the In a recent news broadcast, a himself and to evaluate situa­necessary. Statements like this basic causes that-produce the Democratic National Chairman, political analyst commented 
tions as he truly saw them. generalize, classify, and accuse racial explosions in America to­Mr. Brown engaged in numer­that President Clinton's Chief of 
lie wrote, "I've had enough of an entire group of people sim­day." It is terribly easy to sim­ous lobbying activities. lie re­Staff, new to the Washington someone else's propaganda. ply because of their skin color, ply hate others for their differ­mained on retainer with his law 
political scene, would be "eaten 
I'm for truth, no matter who without taking into considera­ences. To keep an open mind firm, Patton, Boggs and Blow alive" by insiders. It is a tells it. I'm for justice, no mat­tion the myriad of personalities and accept everyone for who 
and received fees from the firm tragedy when intelligent and ter who it is for or against. I'm and backgrounds present in the they are is a much more diffi­
when it represented the Abu honest people will not be taken a human being first and fore­group. cult and courageous path to Dhabi Investment Authority, the seriously. High-ranking gov­
most. and as such I'm for who­Alienating oneself from the take. owners of the Bank of Credit ernment officials have found ever and whatever benefits rest of our community with Malcolm X was killed for tak­and Commerce International the loop-holes in existing ethics 
humanity as a whole." these types of unfounded accu­ing this path. The least we at (BCCI). and lobbying legislation and The man is Malcolm X. The sations and hanging signs pro­Notre Dame can do is listen to have privately profited by their 
same Malcolm X who believed claiming "We aren't NO" will him and try to make this a true His firm also lobbied on be­discoveries. that African-Americans should not help to solve the problems and welcoming community in half of the Japan Aviation Elec­fight against racism "by any we are having at this University. which we can not only attend tronics Industry, Ltd. While I had hoped that as President,rnfJans that are necessary". When injustice is present, drive classes, but truly live together. 
serving as Democratic National Mr. Clinton would put an end to 
The fact that Malcolm X ad­it out into the open. Fight Chairman, Brown solicited foreign lobbying. It is dressed the problem of racism against it with all necessary Jeffrey J. Dix 
government business for his detrimental to our country's 
as a human problem rather vigor. but please do not combat Stanford Hall law firm and the company he economic survival. Mickeythan a crusade against all white it by simply creating more in-Jan.20,1993 
heads, CapitaVPEBSCO. Kantor's law firm has also lob­bied on behalf of foreign inter­
It is amazing that Mr. Brown ests. Can Mickey Kantor as the would be appointed to such a U.S. Trade Representative and prominent position. Just a few Hon Brown as Commerce Sec­months ago Mr. Clinton retary be trusted to promote protested against influence­fair trade policies for the United peddlers. Now he has ap­States? If President Clinton is pointed several to his Cabinet. not going to do it. who will stop Mr. Clinton proposed a change the revolving door of foreign in the 1989 Ethics Act. This act lobbyists-turned-government forbade former Cabinet and oflicials? other high-ranking executive officials from lobbying for one Meredith Reid year after their tenure. Mr. Knott Hall Clinton alluded to changing the Jan.20,1993 restriction from one to five 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
HOW 5TIUON 7He 
YES, MA'AM.

ABOUT Hlt-1.-. 5TIU.... NOT 50. READY 
MIN{} IFI

WOOORaAF G/3mNG IT. H/3'S TO TAl<& 
7RY70PUT

WHAT's teAOINGTH&SAV&­OOIAJN5011& 
MIKE MI/..X13N

li&BEZN BOBPACKJf/00{} BAP6UY5? 
BACK. IN JAIL-?
UP7D? MOVEMENT. 

I / 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'When I examine myself and my methods of thought, I come to the conclusion that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than my talent for absorbing positive knowledge.' Albert Einstein 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
-~-~~-~------~---...,·---"'-":--"0___...___~-~----------~--·~----~-~·.-~--~--~----~»4~-~·~~------~----~---.--~,_...~........ 


Viewpoint
Friday, January 22, 1993 page 13 
~ 
j 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The Notre Dame family mourns loss of two sisters 
Dear Editor: 
A Notre Dame student, Kyle Mead '95 is a friend and classmate of my daughter Colleen, who was killed in the swim team bus accident nearly a year ago. 
Kyle wrote the attached poem as a memorial to Colleen and Meghan Beehler. I contacted him to get his permission for you to publish this "Memorial Lamentation" in The Observer on Jan. 22 as part of the University remembrance of the Jan. 24, 1992 accident. 
Thank you for your cooperation in this matter. Our family ~ontinues to appreciate the genuine support of the Notre Dame family as we strive to deal with out loss. 
Ann Hipp Jan.16,1993 

January 24. 1992: A Memorial Lamentation 
Through a darkness appeared the white, But by the white arrived a deeper darkness. Hope sprung from near-victory in the evening. In the morning, from captured victory, tragedy exploded. A mere four miles from security Peril fell upon them. They might as well have been 
a thousand miles away. The water meant their lives and their joys; The ice would mean their deaths and our sorrows. 
The nation knew our loss, A country shared our grief. The campus remained quiet in the dawn, Silent shock filled classrooms and dorms that day. Only whispers broke the deadly stillness: 
Can this really be true, Or is it but a nightmare? Lord, why did it happen now? Less than two weeks ago Everyone was home with their families Enjoying their break but anxious to return. Never will things be as they were just yesterday. 
Must we accept this fate? Extinguished so suddenly the hopes and dreams, Goals and aspirations of two for whom the future Held such incredible promise. And they had already done so much for others Nothing can replace the treasures that they were. 
What can we do to restore our faith? How can we refresh our being? 
The Basilica was filled. A church packedbeyond capacity, It overflowed like the hearts of all the campus, The whole community of Our Lady pouring forth love 
and comfort to those who needed it most. 

When has such a sharing ever been seen? When has such emotion before been displayed? Why must we hurt before we are healed? Why must restoration be preceded by such pain? 
And yet through it all we have grown. (They have touched us.) 
Death is never pleasant But death is not evil Our sisters have "transferred" from Notre Dame And have been accepted into the 
School of Eternal Happiness. 

Eternal rest grant unto them, 0 Lord, And may perpetual light shine upon them. May they rest in peace. 

-Kyle Mead 


Does racism exist on campus? 
Dear Editor: Jan. 14) do me a favor, stop by well as at least two others in 
For the past four years I have tonight and you and I will take this dorm. In my case, I was read countless articles based a walk to the Morris Inn, once walking from Grace to Alumni on the seemingly easy question: we get there we will go down­and before I reached LaFortune "Does Racism exists on this stairs and walk the tunnel (or I had been stopped twice and campus?" hallway) that connects the Mor­asked to present my ID. Dude, I 
Well, speaking strictly for ris Inn with the Center for was wearing khaki shorts, a NO myself, I do not really believe Continuing Education. T-shirt, and the classic NO hat. ( that this is an important ques­As we walk the connecting You know the basic Domer tion -who cares if there's tunnel we will look at the pic­attire). racism on campus?! tures, that are suppose to rep­
I think the question: "Does resent the members of the At times I feel that the school Racism exist?" is really quite Notre Dame family and the and many members of the ridiculous because it always school's history, when we do community are being extremely seems to digress into the this we will see that all of the insensitive and quite naive. For meaningless question of: "What pictures are of Caucasians. example how dare you ask me, is racism?" Well let's go ahead when I am wearing a hat with a and answer that question. Ac­Then we will walk to the big 'X' on it, why I am wearing cording to Webster's II Uni­bookstore and look at the a Super Bowl Ten hat? versity Dictionary racism is poster mural, that is suppose to That's not funny! Damn it, defined as: 1. The notion that represent the school history, that 'X' is important and full of 
one's own ethnic stock is supe­and we will see that the only symbolic meaning because it rior. 2. Prejudice or discrimina­minority picture in that mural reminds us (African Americans) tion based on racism. is one of a football player. While that none of us truly knows 
So Cristiane, we [African we are in the bookstore we will what our real last names are Americans] too can be racist! try (and eventually fail) to buy a and who our ancestors really (The Observer, Jan. 14) What I pick at the bookstore for my are, much le.ss,where they think you meant to say was that hair, and finally, we will walk came from. we cannot be guilty-of discrimi­around campus and try to pick Therefore, as far as we know, nation. I say this because out a statue of non-Caucasian we are all distant cousins of Webster defines Discrimination Catholic Saint like St. Augus­one another. (That's why mariy as being: "The ability or power tine, who I learned was of of us address each other as my 
·to discern." Yet again, we African origins, or better yet, sister/brother or 'cuz. ') At the African Americans can at times we will walk over to Corby to very least, the hat is a nice way be guilty of discrimination. visit an African American to remember a slain leader of priest. We, of course, will find the African American 
OK, enough with the seman­nothing, Robert. Community. tics of this ridiculous word Robert, remember how you Let me address one more game. I fear that many people felt when your parents left you commonly brought up point. are missing the point of these out of the family portrait? Now When we African Americans sit articles. These articles about try to imagine how you would at the "table" together we are 
· racism are not merely about feel if you were to be left out of not separating ourselves from words, they are a heart felt tes­the family photo album. Well, the "majority" -feel free to join timony about how 15 percent of that is exactly how many of us us. this University's population feel when we walk around this People, when we sit together might feel. beautiful campus. we are just sitting with friends. As a bonafide member of this We often wonder: Were there Friends that many of us made university and a strong African ever black students in this during our senior year campus American man, I am trying to school's history or was 1989, visits. How is that different make the community aware of my freshman year, the first year from a "majority" student sit­the problems that exist here, in that we were ever allowed to ting with freshman year the hopes of making this insti­attend this school? Were there roommate? tution stronger and more en­ever any African saints or even joyable. I realize that there priests for that matter? All of Please, do not misunderstand are extremely few people at this these questions eventually lead this article, I have, indeed, truly school who are prominent me to ask myself the painful enjoyed my stay here at Notre candidates for a radical skin question: Am I a valued Dame, and I have made many head organization. Therefore, I member of the Notre Dame close and dear friends, but I do not believe that the problem family or am I just a token? also feel the need to do my part here at Notre Dame is one of to make this school even better. racism, but one of insensitivity. When an incoming freshmen I too pay the full $17,000 to say Let's say for example, that gets that letter of acceptance that I am a "Domer," I too when you go home for Easter the University is saying to that watch athletic events from the Break your family decides to student three things; 1). We be­stands, and I even get a little take a new family portrait, but lieve that you are going to be tear eyed when I hear the alma for some unknown reason they able graduate from our school; mater, but at times I do not feel forget to include you. How and 2) We believe that you are as though I ·am a valued would you feel? Would you feel valued member of the Notre member of the Notre Dame that you were not a valued Dame community, and finally, 3) Family and to be frank -that and/or a respected member of You are going to be ·able to really hurts. the fall1ily? prosper and _enjoy the Notre Dame Experience. Yet, unfor­Is there racism here on Why? Your parents never, tunately, the school has broken campus? Sure there is racism openly, said: "You are not an this agreement time and time here at school and it definitely important member of the fam­again. goes both ways. I think the ily." So since this was not made How would you feel if one of more important question is explicit to you in words, you the Notre Dame security guards what can we do about it? I should not feel this way, right? stops you when you are walking think the answer is simple: Wrong! If you are being hon­across campus and demands to Each of us needs to take the est with yourself you must ad­see your Notre Dame ID? I, as time to be more sensitive to the mit that you would feel that well as many other minority needs and feelings of all of the their insensitivity has, indeed, students, (including two other members the Notre Dame made you feel as though you minority students from your Family and stop fussing about were not a valued member of dorm), can attest to the fact where people sit and the defi­the family -and that hurts. In that it makes us question nition of various words! short, your parents should have whether or not we ·are truly a realized that taking a family part of the Notre Dame family. Billy Allen portrait, without you, would Robert, these are not isolated Senior hurt you. incidents! It happened to me, Alumni Hall Well, Robert (The Observer, and I too live in your dorm. as Jan.19.1992 

$ • ,$0
r 



JANUARY 22-24 

weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 

From West of Here, 9:30 p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ Sha Na Na, 50s style music and comedy, 7 and 9 p.m., Old Lakeville School Project. 784-2749, $ Electronic Music, David Barton/Faculty Recital, 8 p.m., I USB Auditorium-Northside Hall, 237-4203, $ 
EVENTS 

Out Of The Frying Pan, St. Edward Hall Players, 8:10p.m., Notre £Jame-Washington Hall,$ Winter Circus, 8 a.m. to 1 p.m., LaFortune 

saturday 
MUSIC 

From West Of Here, 9:30 p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ The Spinners, 8 p.m., Lake Michigan College, {616) 927-1221,$ 
EVENTS 

The Badin Aerobathon, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Notre Dame, Stepan Center, $3 Make Beeswax Sand Candles, 1 to 4 p.m., Fernwood Botanic Garden-Art Center, $ Out Of The Frying Pan, St. Edward Hall Players, 8:10p.m., Notre Dame-Washington Hall,$ 

sunday 
MUSIC 

Facultv VIola Recital, Christine Rutledge. 2 p.m., Notre Dame-Snite Museum of Art 
EVENTS 

The Mystery of Irma Vep, Bristol Opera House, 5 
g4~:4116, $ 

Bird Feeding Seminar, 2 p.m., Potato Creek State Park-Nature Center Auditoruim, $ 
•

moVJes 

Cinema At The Snlte Friday and Saturday, Glengary Glen Ross, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Unlv. Park West Scent of a Woman, 1 :30, 4:45, & 8 p.m. Aladdin, 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:25, & 9:25p.m. Leap of Faith, 2, 4:30, 7:15, & 9:45 p.m. 
Unlv. Park East Chaplin, 1 :50, 5, & 7:50 p.m. Hoffa, 1 :40, 4:45, & 8 p.m. A Few Good Men, 1, 4, 7, & 9:50p.m. Forever Young, 1:10,3:15, 5:20, 7:25, & 9:30p.m. Toys, 1 :45, 4:30, 7:10, & 9:40 p.m. Nowhere To Run, 1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, & 9:40 p.m. 
break it with-it's a lot of fun after the party's rolling along. Traditional colors ol 
the Mexican flag are red, white and green, so hang up some streamers and balloons for a little decoration. Don your favorite sombrero and throw on a colorful poncho-you'll be ready to dance "La Bamba" with the best of them. For music, try Los Lobos, Menudo, Gerardo's "Rico Suave," or even "La Cucaracha." 
Recipe·
• 
I-­

Supreme Nachos ' Tortilla chips Mozzarella cheese Cheddar cheese Black olives Tomatoes Jalepeno peppers Ground beef Sour cream Guacamole 
Dice tomatoes and black olives into small pieces. Set aside. 
Brown ground beef over medium heat, mixing often and cutting into pieces to make sure all the beef is thoroughly cooked. 
Grate mozzarella and cheddar cheese. 
Spread tortilla chips onto a serving plate, and cover with cheese, tomatoes, olives, ground beef and jalepeno peppers. 
Microwave on high power for one and a half minutes, or until cheese is evenly melted. 
Fill small bowls with sour cream and guacamole and serve with nachos. 
Use the amount of each ingredient that best suits your taste. 
I 

The 70's and SO's Party
This kind of theme party is becoming more and more popular at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Decorate with your favorite memorabilia from your childhood and junior high school days-a "Flashdance" poster, or better yet an 8 x 10 glossy of The BeeGees. 
For the 80s, feather your hair and dress up in leg warmers, Izod shirts (with the collar up, of course), pin-striped Lee jeans, jelly shoes, fluorescent sweatshirts, and Docksiders. If you're sporting the 70's look, try bell-bottoms, clogs, or anything that fits into the disco mode. 
On the music scene, play Men at Work, the J. Giles Band, the Village People, "Oh, What a Night" by Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons, "Jessie's Girl" by Rick Springfield, and anything from the "Saturday Night Fever" soundtrack. 
-I 
I
e e 
I 
I I 
!
page 15 










zn zn 
you tired of being squished into a room which seems no than two by four feet? Does Old Milwaukee and to "Brown Eyed Girl" over and over bore you to ? Does deciding whether to wear black flats or brown with the new ivory sweater give you a major migrain? suffer no more. Here's a handy-dandy guide for a theme party-complete with recipes, how to te, what to wear and what tunes to play. 
~he "Come As You Are" Party 
best If y~u know what people are doing that night. The typical --~~··-• go pick up the people you want at the party and take them Some may be simply lounging around and watching television, but ts when people are in the mist of getting dressed, already in bed, 
guests and tell them to come over right away, but it's too easy to not an elaborate theme, but it gives a party a bit of a twist. 
ys show up in towels 
•uv<~ictc and girls wear fails that a girl will I wrapped around her e the highlight of the 
's even possible that k naked, but highly 
r\)uckie" by Ernie or r way, it's a rather 
The "Fly Away" Party 
This is a new one, but it sounds like tons of fun. 
Usually this party is done off-campus, or with a whole dorm section. The basic concept is that every guest pays around $10 to enter the party. Not only does this cover party supplies, but it also pays for a trip for two to sunny, warm Florida. 
This is the way it works: the hosts of the party pre­purchase two airline tickets and make hotel accommodations for two in Florida. Then they inVite and charge admittance to enough guests to cover the expenses. 
After all of the guests have arrived, there is a drawing with all the guests' names. The person whose name is drawn must choose someone from the party as their weekend companion in Florida, and then has to pack and make it to the airport-all in one hour. 
Appropriate music selections include "Learning to Fly" by Pink Floyd, "Fly Like an Eagle" by Steve Miller, and "Time For Me to Fly" by REO Speedwagon. 
Serve small bags of peanuts and it'll be an awesome party-just make sure that certain somebody also made it to the party. 
The Luau 
It's nothing new, but always a good time. The Luau 
party is a celebration Hawaiian style. For an elaborate time, accessories such as grass skir~s. a ~oasted P.ig, and ~low-up palm trees are key. But If a simple, qmck bash IS the desired pace summer clothing, flip-flops, and llii":::::!•~=--=-·----------------, 
flowered leis should be fme. 

Essential music: The Beach Boys, "Walking on Sunshine" by Katrina and the Waves, and "Tiny Bubbles" by Don Ho. 
A videotape of "Back to the Beach" or any other Annette Funicello and Frankie Avalon flick is a definite must. 
With all the right 
components, the Luau should be a good time. So Aloha and enjoy. 
Recipe: 
Slushy Punch 
1 cup-sugar 
2 ripe, medium bananas, cut up 
3 cups-unsweetened pineapple juice 
1 6 ounce can-frozen orange juice concentrate 
2 tbsp-lemon juice 
1 liter bottle-carbonated water or Sprite 
•For each serving, combine equal amounts o slush and carbonated water/Sprite 
Stir together sugar and 2 3/4 cups water until sugar dissolves. . ~n blender, com~~e bananas, half of the pineapple mce and orange JUICe concentrate. Cover and blend until smooth. 
Add blended ingredients to sugar mix. Stir in remaining pineapple juice and lemon juice. Transfer to a 13"x9" baking pan. 
Freeze for several hours or until firm. To serve, let mixture set at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes. To form a slush, scrape a large spoon across the frozen mixture. Spoon into a punch bowl. Slowly pour carbonated water or Sprite down the side of the bowl. Stir gently to mix. 
Makes 23 4 ounce servings. 
. . The Toga Party
With this· old favorite, you cail party just like John Belushi in "Animal House." It's quite simple-all you need is the right outfit. Find an old sheet, a pair of sandals, some leaves to wrap 
•IJiformatioll compiled

around your head, a .bunch of grapes and you're ready 
bg Jah11elle Harriga11

to go. 
a11d Ke11ga JohiiSOII. 


IllutratioiiB bg SterJe 
Due11ea. 

.. ' :----.... -­
; 

~-----------------------------------·­
page 16 . Friday, January 22, 1993
-
'Children's hour' finds its place in the White House 
Longfellow and I were raised 
piece, called simply leading his horse out of the in Portland, Maine, though in "Dedication," that Frost could stall; I hear the clatter on the different centuries. As shades of Father Robert Griffin not read was the note inscribed barn-floor./ He is in haste; he the prison-house were begin­on the manuscript copy he gave has business in Cuba, business ning to close on me as a to Jack: "Be more Irish than in the Balkans, many calls to growing boy, I started to Harvard. Poetry and power is make this morning./But I will 
Bellers Ia ahone.(y 9od
discover the poetry attesting the formula for another not hold the saddle while he that Longfellow had played in Augustan Age. Don't be afraid cinches the girth./And he may the woods where I now played, of power."" Jack, in his thank mount by himself; I will not give 
and had that he had loved the that their best known alumnus be something the audience is at you note, answered, "Power all him a leg upffhough he flickes is no longer regarded as a very home with; otherwise, it can fall
shoreline, with its ancients forts the way." With this exchange my shoulder with his whip, I overlooking the bay, that I loved great poet. But you can say in on deaf ears, like a love song the poet and the President left will not tell him which way the more than a hundred years defense of mediocre poetry that from opera sung in Italian, or a something for the ages. fox ran./ later. The discovery was almost often it is easy to read and fun Broadway tune, when you hear This year, Clinton invited a With his hoof on my breast, I 
to memorize. That's why some it the first time. The audience's
a religious experience. distinguished black woman, will llot tell him where the 
of Longfellow's jingles have. plain duty is applaud and cheer, 
In a way, then, I had a head Maya Angelou, to serve as poet black boy hides in the swamp./ I 
stayed in my mind since as though every line they were
start on poetry. Longfellow's Hi­laureate for his inauguration. shall die, but that is all I shall awatha was my more than childhood. hearing left them dazzled with Last Sunday, interviewed on do for Death; I am not on his 
Homeric hero; and as the I thought of one of them this light. television, Miss Angelou recited payroll./1 will not tell him the merest lad, I started to fill my morning, when Clinton was in­It's only fair to say that the with great effectiveness a poem whereabouts of my friends nor 
augurated: "Between the dark groundlings may sense they are
head with the incantatory by Edna St. Vincent Millay , who of my enemies either./Though music of Hiawatha's childhood. and the daylight/When the night hearing music worthy of I feel very close to because she he promises me much, I will not "By the shore of Gitchee is beginning to lower/Comes a heaven. The cognoscente may came from Maine. map him the route to any man's 
GumeeJBy the shining Big-Sea­pause in the day's occupa­admit to one another, like good The inaugural poem she door." Water,/ Stood the wigwam of tionsffhat is known as the Chil­ol' boys sharing a trade secret, delivered Wednesday was very This encourages us to Nokomis, Daughter of the dren's Hour." that the text needs to be heard powerful to hear. Tom Brokaw persevere with the homework 
The inauguration of a newly­again, and perhaps seen, if it is
Moon, Nokomis./ Dark behind it described it as highly evocative, we need to do if we want to rose the forest/Rose the black elected President typically has to deliver its pay load. though his eyes were almost exceed the speed of sound, so 
and gloomy pine-trees/Rose the an innocence about it. The new What happened with Frost crossed as he said it; clearly she that we can go into orbit with firs with cones upon them; chief of state tends to be still was wonderful and unfor­stirred memories in him with the demanding poets like Maya 
/Bright before it beat the fresh from his election, without gettable. He stole everyone's her catalogues of the nationali­Angelou. water)Beat the clear and sunny a track record of mistakes he is thunder, as anticipated. ties who trusted themselves to Are the candidates-elect water)Beat the shining Big-Sea answerable for, when the power Accor_ding to a newspaper the rrielting pot. The poem will being pretentious when they Water." is passed to him from his prede­account, "Robert Frost in his be endlessly anthologized, be­invite high-brow artists to their Later, I discovered how cessor. natural way stole the hearts of cause in writing the poem, Miss children's hour? "Ah, but a 
tempting it was to parody Seeing Clinton this morning, I the inaugural crowd yesterday Angelou delivered a gift to the man's reach should exceed his "Longfellow's rhythm and his felt that this was "the children's with a poem he recited and an­ages. grasp," wrote Browning, "Or hypnotic repetitive involution of hour" for him and his party. other he couldn't read because But I wish her meaning could what's a heaven for?" 
Part of a Democrat's innocence the sun's glare hid the words ... " 
the obvious that somehow gives have been as clear and obvious The Democrats are trying to 'Hiawatha' its charm and is his aspiration to greatness, But as a teacher and priest as Millay's poem was when Miss bring more class to the aboriginal flavor." Longfellow which is bound to elude him. who has offered caviar to the Angelou recited it on television. changing of the guard in Wash­tells us that Hiawatha had This is why Kennedy invited masses, and left the mob won­The poem was called ington; and it's appropriate. 
"magic mittens made of Robert Frost, the de facto poet dering why I was talking over "Conscientious Objector." She Should we expect them to act deerskin". laureate, to take part in his own their heads, I'm sure that both was reciting it as the planes like green grocers dedicating a Students at Longfellow's alma "children's hour," to insure it of Frost's poems required were returning from the supermarket? • The Maya 
...-mater Bowdoin College, in would have class like a catered exegesis, if you wanted them to Sunday raid on Iraq. Angelous and the Frosts attend Brunswick near Portland, are alTair. communicate. "I shall die, but that is all that the children's hour to help 
warned as entering freshmen Poetry used publicly should The clearest thing about the I shall do for Death./1 hear him America save its soul. 
,. 
...... 
p N DJ u N I 0 R ARE NT s w E E K E' Hey Juniors! JPW Seating for Dinner and Brunch will take place from 4-9 p.m. Monday, Jan. 25 Tuesd~y, Jan. 26 Wednesday, Jan. 2 7 Room 106 in the Center for Continuing Education There are three families per table. One student must present all three J.D.'s at the time of registration. Questions? call the JPW Office at 1-6028 between 6-8 p.m., Sunday through Thursday  

LU

--------~-~~~------~------------~­
Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 17 



Woes continue for Cincinnati Reds organization 
Schott racial slur decision Rose admits to gambling again expected to be delayed at Kentucky Derby and in Florida 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Pete Rose, radio talk show, was inter­GRAPEVINE, Texas (AP) -time it finds to be "in the best banned for life from baseball in viewed by the Post in Boca Ra­The head of baseball's execu­interest of baseball." The coun­1989 because he was gambling, ton, Fla. He left his native tive council said Thursday there cil assumed authority Sept. 7 said he is gambling again, The Cincinnati for Florida in 1991.
won't be an immediate decision following the forced resignation Cincinnati Post reported today. He said he still intends to ap­on the fate of Marge Schott of commissioner Fay Vincent. 
"I don't do illegal gambling ply for reinstatement to base­after the Cincinnati Reds owner Schott, who assumed control anymore. But I'm not going to ball.
appears before the ruling of the Reds on Dec. 21, 1984, sit here and tell you I don't "Sure I'll apply -in the very group. has been accused by several gamble anymore, because I'd near future," he said. "But ev­Schott is scheduled to appear people of making slurs against be lying," Rose told the Post. "I ery day that goes by is anotherbefore the council Friday to an­blacks, Jews and Asians. 
went to the Kentucky Derby last positive day for me, because of swer accusations that she made She has confirmed some year, and if people think I'm what I'm doing. I'm doing the racial and ethnic slurs. A four­statements and apologized for going to the Kentucky Derby to right things, and I'm not doingperson committee submitted them. She has denied other al­watch the horses -I can go to them because I'm trying to bethe evidence against Schott to legations, including accounts the farm to watch the horses. phony. I'm doing it becauseher lawyer in late December. that she slurred black players "But I'm not going to go (to they're the right things." 
Milwaukee Brewers owner on the Reds. 
the track) the next day, and the The former Cincinnati Reds Bud Selig, the council chair­Robert Bennett, Schott's day after that. What's the big player and manager lives within man, was asked Thursday lawyer, submitted her written deal about that?" an hour's drive of threewhether he expected an im­response Wednesday to Na­Rose, 51, served five months thoroughbred tracks, a harnessmediate decision. "I do not," he tional League counsel Robert in federal prison for failing to racing track, three greyhoundsaid. Kheel. Bennett had asked to list all his income, including tracks and three jai-alaiSelig said the council hadn't have until Jan. 25 to respond gambling winnings, on his tax frontons. He told the Post heyet decided how it would pro­and was angry that the execu­returns. does not go to the racetrackceed to a decision following tive council didn't comply with In Florida, where Rose lives, regularly.
Friday's meeting. her request. 
betting on horse racing, grey­"I don't look at it like there's "We'll take that each day as it hound racing and jai-alai isle­this thing out there that I can comes." he said in Milwaukee. "I had been hopeful of working gal. Betting on horse races is walk by and it'd grab me andThe council has the power to out an amicable resolution of also legal in Kentucky. I'd be back into doing it again,"fine Schott up to $250,000 or to this thing," Bennett said after Rose, who does a syndicated Rose said. 
suspend her for any length of the deadline was set. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING 287-4082 
•• Notre Dame Council on International Business Development All-Council Meeting at 7 p.m. Sunday, ND Room, 2nd Fl .. LaFortune. Be there! •• 
Dissertations. Theses, Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277-7406 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
Fellowship Time Friday, Jan. 22 7-8:30 p.m. 
115 Farley 
Questions? Call Kevin x 1384 Lisa x4290 
50,000,000 
CAMPUS BANDS: soon to open S-track analog recording studio will be offering demo tape recording for approx. $25 per song. Looking for interested bands. Call Tim at 289-2482 for more details. 
Lost and Found 
LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI X4209. 
FOUND: Watch in parking lot behind stadium. Black band with gold face. Call x3447 
LOST: Key Chain with 2 keys. Chain contains bronze dolphin, red Swiss Army knife, compass, and a flashlight. Great Sentimental Value. Call Kevin at X1761 
Lost: Girls "Kubasaki H.S." class ring and mens gold neck chain during the nile of the snowball fight most likely on South Quad. Huge sentimental value. REWARD. Please call Ryan @x1691. 
LOST: HANOWA watch at BRIDGET'S on Thursday of final's week-black band, white face, small seconds hand. IF FOUND, CALL TREY at X1453 
Lost: Ladies' Gold Watch before Finals. All gold. Scratch in top right corner. Great Sentimental Value. 
Please Call Amy x4530. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean. etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634·0468 ext.C5584 

WANTED 
Need Kentucky b-ball tix$X4890 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT · START NOW Top environmental/educational company interviewing now for part­time and full-time opportunities. Call 232-7785 for details. 
DRUMMER needed to play all kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273 
Student Painters is interested in hiring highly motivated students to manage their own bus. we offer management training, credit backing, and a full support staff earning pot. $8,000. join the most successful painting co. in Indiana call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom Smith. 
HELP WANTED!!! The New York Times is currently hiring reliable people to deliver papers on campus on weekday mornings. The pay is $40 per week. All papers must be delivered before 8 
a.m.. Most routes take 1 hour. If interested, please call Bill Lane@ 634-4336. 
ANYONE GOING TO D.C.???? the weekend of 1/29 or 2112 Call 
Allison at X4758 or 4721 
@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ 
I need a ride to MIAMI(OH.) UNIVERSITY any weekend 
Will help pay for gas 

Call BRIAN 4-2081 @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ 

FOR RENT 
FOR RENT: 4 bed/2bath house on Corby St. (walking distance to ND) available as soon as June for 93/94 year. Call Kevin (317) 685-2926 
Bed and Breakfast for ND-St. Mary's families in private home. 2 Bedrooms (twins) and I bedroom (single) with separate bath· 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood -JPW, graduation, etc. weekends -Reasonable -234­2626 2br. Apts 4 blocks from ND $350 a month Newly Remodeled 232-8256 
FURNISHED ROOM. $170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. 287-2159. 
For Rent Notre Dame Apts. -Newly Remodeled 2Br Apts -Great Rental Rates 
Start at $400/mth. Call 2~2-8256 

FOR SALE 
1990 Nissan Sentra XE, 2DR, 5 SPD, PS, AM-FM Stereo, 34K mi, $5950. Call277-4601 after 6PM. 
FURNITURE. MUST SELL! CALL 3234 
1 00 Watt stereo with receiver and amplifier. 15" speakers, excellent sound, perfect condition. call 271­1443 
Stereo for sale. Dual cassette, turntable, AM-FM stereo. Graphic equalizer. Needs speakers. Call Sandy at 233-2407. · 
MAC CLASSIC II ·4MB Ram BOMB HD, math coprocessor, misc. software, network cables. Still under warrantee. 
Call Jim at 272-1365 to ask ?'s or to place bid. Will sell to best offer received by Wed Jan 27. 
SONY receiver:Dolby surr. sound 60+ 1 Ow/ch. Still in box great deal @$200 Call Chris x3830 

TICKETS 
WANTED: Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284-3814 
WANTED: Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call 284-3814 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 
NEED 2 tickets to Kentucky game · call Aaron x1764 
Need one Duke or Kent ticket. Student or GA. Call Brian at 1194. 
Please Help!! 
I need 1-4 Duke/NO Basketball tix for Feb.6!! 
Please call X2384 ASAP Thanks!! 
Need 4 Duke GA's 4 or 2 and 2 Matt#1190 
KENTUCKY GAME NEED 4 TIX $$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE @ 1719 

I need DUKE & KENTUCKY tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris x1235. 
NBed 1 ,2,3,or 4 GA or stud. tickets for Duke game. Call Nicole atX1618. 
PLEASE HELP 
I NEED 3 
DUKE TIX 
WILL PAY OR TRADE KENT. TIX 
CALL TIM X3893 
NEED 
2 DUKE TICKETS 
DARRIN #3107 

For Sale: One Way ticket to Tampa/St. Petersburg, FL. Good for one year. Best offer. Call Chris @ 273-2958. 
help 
i need 1 duke ticket 
call julie· x3736 

I NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS. Call Kelly dt x4121. 
I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS 
MARY X2862 


L PERSONAL 
The Student Activities Office is hiring students for their building set up crew. If you are interested, pick up an application at 315 LaFortune. For more information call631-7308. 
Bad dog, bear, and mole don't steal breadsticks-Wormse 
r······································ 
AVOID THE RUSH!!!! Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day message, but don't wait until the last minute to type it in!! Classifieds can be placed anytime between now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The Observer office (3rd floor LaFortune). 
Summer jobs and internships­University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, is interviewing goal oriented students for a challenging, full-time summer position. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations. Average earnings $3,900. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may be available. Interviews on campus February 3rd. Information and interview sign-up available today at CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library orcall1-800-743-5556. 
GROLSCH HALL PRESENTS poems by Quiver 
"Ode to a Shucker" 
Moisture glistened triumphant As the hot sun dripped its rays On the bulging cob of corn. Thrusting its tense shape up The quivering stalk's only pride: The enormous, erect appendage, made huge by wet weather, Seemed to me like Every corn shucker's dream. 
-Quiver 

BEWARE The Sh-ing Bandits have emerged. No one is safe. All buildings will be shat in by May. Over 20 have fallen already. We will stop at nothing. And flush we shall not. SM,JG,GC,JC 
Top 8 Things said in the GREEN BEAST going to Indy: 
8. "Did you run over some-thing?" ­"Do you want me to turn around and see?" 
7. "Liz, sweetheart, feel free to put your coats back on MY seat." 
6. "Do you tuck up or down?" 
5. "It can work it's way around like a clock." 
4. "It's just like campus mail\" 
3. "Your 'house' is enormous." 
2. "Get some of that!" 
1. "Takes a lickin' but keeps on 
ticking!!!" -Sara M. and Jen E. 
POP FARLEY 1993! JENNIFER RETTERER 
might be a dirty prawn, but still wish her a HAPPY 21st. She loves three wise men. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education. endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, LIMITED SPACE. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800·426-7710. 
...AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. 
Desperately seeking GA's for UKIND basketball game! If you can help please call Missy at 284-5260 
FOR ALL OF YOU NEW YEAR'S 
RESOLUTIONERS WHO THINK THAT YOU ARE BASKETBALL 
PLAYERS OR WEIGHTLIFTERS--GO BACK TO 
PLAYING VIDEO GAMES AND QUIT TAKING UP SPACE SO THAT THE REGULARS CAN DO 
THEIR THING. 
==========~================ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY DAD! II Love,K 
An apology to bad dog, the bear, 
and mole -Wormser 
Chels· 
We are forever indebted to Kristen for taking away the green sweater. Now we just have to find a way to get rid of the flowered miniskirt! Remember that we're here for you­we'll get through this thing together. 
Love, 
Duffster 
and Ana 
-Good Luck ND Synchro! You'll do great at Mich. St.! Julie, Shannon, Kelly, &Meg 
If you booze and cruise-you lose. 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE 


NBA L.eltden Thweday'a &porta Trllnaactlona CATAWBA-Announced that women's Blackbtxn 74, Parka 49 NEW YORK (AP) -NBA Individual ecorlng, field goal percentage, BASEBALL swimming and men's tacroaae will be varsity aporta, Cent. Mlaaourl 81, NE Mlaaoun 66leadln through January 20: effective thla fall. Named Mary Ann Martinelli
American League Ferrla St. 66, Saginaw Val. St. 63 Scoring MNNESOTA TWINs-Agreed to Ierma women's swimming coach and Tim McMahon men'• GrMnvtlle 80, Eul'8ka 86

G FG FT Pia Avg with Mark Guthrie, pitcher, on a '-"YNT contract and laaoaae coadl. Haatlnga 91, Dana 48Jordan, Chi. 36 453 226 1172 32.6 Mke Hanley, pitcher, on a one-year contract. KALAMAZOO-Announced the 
Hllildale 112, Northwd, Mich. 87Wlklna, AIL 25 240 178 6115 27.8 OAKLAND ATHLETICS-signed Joa retirement ol George Acker, men•• tennis coach, IIMnola 82, Penn St. 66K. Malone, Utah 36 339 296 gn 27.1 eftecllve at the end olthe 11193 aeaaon.

Boaver, p~cher. to a one-year contract. Signed DaJa 
lnd.-Pur.-Ft. Wayne 102, Bellarmlne 75 Mulin, G.S. 38 410 156 102 97 KUTZTOWN--Named AI Leonzl football 

Sveum. Infielder, Ralael Ramirez, ahortatop, and 
Indiana Tech 108, Huntington 99

Balldey, Phoa. 32 296 225 844 26.4 Kevtn CarT¢ell, pitcher, to minor-league contract&. coach. 
Kentucky St. 88, Ashland 72Ot.juwon. Hou. 36 356 194 806 25.2 National League LA SALLE-Extended the contract o1 l.aka Superior St. 72, Wayne, Mich. 64Roblnaon, SA 35 291 282 946 24.2 MONTREAL EXPOS-Sent Keith Bill "Speedy" Morris, men's basketball coach. 

Mount Mercy 97, Iowa Weelyn 113O'Neal, Orl. 32 286 174 746 23.3 Morrilon, pncher, to the CaiHornla Angela to through the 1996-97 aeaaon. 

N. Kentucky 118, Oakland City 114Dumn,Oet. 35 302 167 808 23.1 complete an earlier trade lor Lee Stevena, first MISSISSIPPI STATE-Named Bruce Olli!land, Mich. 73, Grand Valley St. 71

Petrovic, N.J. 35 301 155 800 22.9 baaeman. 
Arlana offensive coordinator. S. Illinois 92, Drake 74 ~y.G.S. 38 310 185 662 22.7 NEW YORK METS-Agreed to terma 
MORNINGSIDE-Announced the Siena Heights n, Grand Rapids BaptistJohnaon, Char. 35 312 153 791 22.6 wnh Dave Gallagher. outfielder, on a one-year resignation of Dave Dolch, athletic director and 69 
Ewing. N.Y. 37 332 165 830 22.4 contract. 
lootbal coach. Taylor 88, St. Francis, Ind. 43 Manning, LAC 37 317 174 808 21.8 Carolina League OKLAHOMA-Named Watson Brown Tlllln 92, Houghton 61 Rlchrrond,Sac. 35 278 156 745 21.3 PRINCE WILLIAM CANNONS-Named oHenalve coordinator. Wailh 82, Malone 71 Millet, Ind. 37 255 223 766 21.2 Tom Rayor tralnar and Howard Levy and Michael SAN FRANCISCO-Announced the Wichita St. 88, Creighton 4 7 Harper, Dal. 27 1111 127 564 20.9 Oenile admlnlatratlve aulatanta. 
reelgnatlon ol Susan Bethania, women's volleyball Xavier, Ohio 63, BUller 59
Homacek. Phi. 35 m 125 718 20.5 Paclflc Coaat League 
coach. 
Lawia, Boe. 40 32e 163 819 20.5 PHOENIX FIREBIRDS-Named Carlos Hawklna, Phil 34 239 1n 693 20.4 AHonao manager, Duane Eepy coach, Joel Horlen NCAA pitching coach, and Dan Wright trainer. Field Goal Percentage BASKETBALL SOUTH Starting tlmaa for thla waakend'a maJor FG FGA Pd Nallonal Baakalball Aaaoclallon oolage t.kalbal aportlng -ta: Daugherty, Clev. 215 371 .580 MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Signed Alan AI n-EST 
Athens St. 82, Montevallo 86
Br1ckowakl, MR. 230 412 .558 Ogg, center, to a aecond 10-day contract. SATURDAY 
Belhaven 88, otliaro n
Turner, Orl. 1111 214 .556 WASHINGTON BULLETS-Released BASKETBALL 
Benta 101. Carr¢elilvile g9
Ceballoll, Phoe. 151 272 .555 Bernard King, forward. Natl-1 Baakalball Aaaocletlon Catawba 112, L-Mc:Rae 89
O'Neai,Orl. 266 519 .551 Un~ed States Beaketball League Dallas at Orlando, 7'3/J p.m. 
Chrlatltln Brother. 110, Bethel, Tenn. 69 -Fleming. Ind. 141 256 .551 WESTCHESTER STALLIONS-Signed P~lx at Atlanta, 7:30p.m.
CoiL ol Charleaton 67, S. Carolina St.
Tho!pe, Hou. 136 251 .550 Derek Canada. guard. Houa1on at Indiana. 7:30 p.m. 
62 Duke 92, N. Carolina St. 56 
K. Malone, ~ah 339 818 .549 FOOTBALL Phladelphla Ill Milwaukee, II p.m . 
Nance. Clev. 272 499 .545 National Football League Cleveland at Denver, 9 p.m. 
East Carolina 74, Florida Atlantic 80
Corbin. ~ah 189 352 .537 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Named Minn.ota at Saawnanto, 10:30 p.m. 
Erskine 72, Lander 67 
Bill Parcells coach. HOCKEY 
Fla. International 66, SE Loulelana 61
Canadian Football League Natl-1 Hockey League
Howard U. 75, Bethuna-Cookman 60
G No Avg HAMIL TON TIGER-CATS-Announced ChicagO at Hanlon!, 1:40 p.m. 
Jackaon St. 88, NE lllnoil 80
38 456 12.7 the reelgnatlon ol Joa Zuger, general manager. Vancouver at Mlnnaeola, 2:10p.m. 
Stockton,~ Ky. Waaleyan 94, L-la 66
38 OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Named New Jeraey at ao.ton, 7:10p.m.
423 11.1 35 335 9.6 Mike Roach defensive coordinator and secondary BIAiaJo at Cuabec. 7:40p.m.
Hardftay. G.S. LaGrange 121. Piedmont 83 
Boguae, Char. Liberty 73, N.C.-Aehevtlle 50
32 294 coach. San Joae at T~ Bay, 7:40p.m. 
92

skl~ae. on. Llvlngatone 86, Shaw 81
33 290 HOCKEY PhK~Ia at New York Islanders, 7:40p.m. 
8.8

Thomas, Det. LoullviUe 85, Southam Mlsa. 81
31 269 8.7 Nallonal Hockey League Ottawa at Waahlngton, 7:40p.m. 
WNIIama, Minn. Mary Waahlngton 74, Ganaudet 56
37 LOS ANGELES KINGS-Sent Sean N-York Rangeralll Loa Angeles. 8:10p.m. 
309 SA

M. Jackaon, LAC Morgan St. 86, Florida A&M 72
37 303 Whyte, right wing, to Phoenix ol the lntematlonal Montreal • Toronto, 8:10p.m. 
8.2 33 265 Hockay League. PittsbUrgh at ~ary. 8:10p.m.
Anderlon, N.J. NE Louisianan. SW Texaa St. 66 
8.0 7.9 

Adanw. Wuh. Nicholls St. 99, Loyola, NO 70
35 275 NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Sent Jarrod Edmonton at Wlnn~. 8:10p.m.
Prtc:e. Clev. North Alabama 122, Baptist Christian 
Skalde, center, to ~lea of the American Hockey Detroit at St. Louie, 8:40 p.m. League. COLLEGE BASKETBALL
92 SW Louisiana 64, W. Kentucky 63
NEW YORK RANGERS-Recalled Top 25 
St. Auguatlne'e 62, FayenevUie St. 61
Steven King, right wing. from Binghamton of the No. 1 Kansaa at Colorado, 4 p.m. 
St8111on 81. Centenary n
American Hockey League. Sent Alexei Kovalev, right No. 4 Kentucky 111 South Carolina. 2 p.m. 
Rebounding Sue Bennett 113, T ann. T errple 64

wing, to Binghamton. No. 5 Michigan va. llllnola, 8 p.m. 
G or Del T~ Avg Tenn. Weeleyan 112, Bryan 97 
Colonial Hockey League No.7 Virginia VI. No. 16 Georgia Tach, 4 p.m. 
Rodman, Det. 211 169 391 560 19.3 Texaa-San Antonio 105, NW Louisiana
FLINT BULLDOGS-Activated Scott No. 8 Arkanaaa VI. Album, 8 p.m. 
O'Naal,O~. 32 165 326 481 15.0 99 WRIIa,AIL 35 140 315 455 13.0 Allen, center, from the Injury llat. Loaned Kord No. 9 Cincinnati VI. Alabama-Birmingham, 8 p.m. 
Tulane 64, Va. Commonwealth 76
Cernlch, defenseman, to the San Diego Gulls o1 the No. 11 Arizona at New Orleans, 8:30p.m. 
Barkley, Phoe. 32 124 287 411 12.8 Union, Ky. n, Georgetown, Ky. 67
International Hockay Leauge. No. 12 Oklahorm Ill Iowa SU!Ie. 2 p.m. 
Ot.juwon. Hou. 36 123 335 458 12.7 Virginia St. 66, Bowie St. 81
SOCCER No. 15 UNLV VI. No. 18 Georgetown, 4 p.m. 
Roblnaon, S.A. 35 104 325 429 12.3 Virginia Union 64, Norlok St. 62, OT
Nallonel Prolualonal Soc:c:ar League No. 17 Connecllcul va. Providence, 8 p.m. 
Ewing. N.Y. 37 102 346 448 12.1 
Voorheee 72. Limestone 70 No. 20 Pittsburgh at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
NPSL-Suapended David Hoggan.

lA U1orrtlo, Den. 36 123 2113 416 11.9 Wake Forest 61, Georgia Tach 58 K.Malone.~ 36 103 317 420 11.7 
Buffalo Blizzard mldllelder and asalatant coach, for No. 21 Michigan State VI. Wlaconaln, 1 p.m. Selkaly, Mia. 31 103 247 350 11.3 two gan.a and lined him an undlacloaed amount lor SOUTHWEST No. 22 UIM ve. San Diego State, 9:30p.m. conduct detrimental to the league. No. 25 Long Beach State at Virginia Commonwealth.
Ark.-Little Rock n, Texaa-Pan 
DENVER THUNDER-Placed Chris 7:30p.m.
American 70 Charles, defender, on the disabled list and Victor 
Oklahoma St. 90, Oral Roberta 45 Fernandez, forward, on the suapended list. SUNDAY
St. Edward's, Texaa 55, Waytand TENNIS BASKETBALL
Baplilt 54 UNITED STATES TENNIS National Baekatball Aaaoc:latlon
Stephen F .Auatln 97, North Texaa 95 ASSOCIATION-Named Brian Earley referee lor Tax• A&l76, E. Texas St. 72 LA l.akera at Washington, 1 p.m. the 1993 U.S. Open Tennla Championships. Texaa-Anlngton 76, Sam Houston St. Chicago at San Antonio, 1 p.m. Announced the retirement ol Eve Kraft, director of 87 Portland at UU!Il, 3:30 p.m. resource development. 
Dallaa at Miami, 6 p.m. Houston at N-Jeraey, 7 p.m. Indiana at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. Seanle at LA Clippers, 9 p.m. 



• 
Beautifully Landscaped Grounds 

• 
Clubhouse 

• 
Neat & Clean Laundry Facilities 

• 
Cable TV Available 

• 
Disposal 

• 
Sparkling Pool 



• 
Attentive Staff 

• 
Balcony or Patio 

• 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Sarvlca 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
Planned Activities 

• 
Frea Aerobics 

• 
Close To Shopping 


Stop by today and discover quality, affordable living. 
Efficiencies from only $250 
1-Bedrooms trom only $265 
2-Bedrooms from only $325 


272-1880 

rHlCKORij 
DlLLA~Ef'A 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, Sat. 1 0-4 & Sun. 12-4 
A
~ ~ 

I 




llas "lfl I 

~ I 
I I 
I 

~tM.MltT~D ..... 
Come and solve the Mystery January 27, 1993 8:00pm 
LaFortune Ballroom 
1st prize $1 00 

1OOo/o audience participation 
~tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information desk for $ 
._.__ _ 
---........... ~ 
---.-.,.
--.c sponsored by Student Activities 
_____________________________....._,_ ..._.. _____..,..,._,_..,.,..._._, , ...... .,.,...._, 
Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 19 

Dream Team 2 to have more college players 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP)-The U.S. team at next year's world basketball cham­pionships might be dominated by NBA stars, but officials em­phasize the selection process will include college players. 
At a meeting with USA Bas­ketball officials C.M. Newton and Warren Brown, U.S. Olympic Committee president Dr. LeRoy Walker said it was agreed that the selection of the team "won't disenfranchise anybody. Athletes both colle­giate and those about to be­come pros will be included." 
The U.S. Olympic team in Barcelona, which cruised to the gold medal, consisted of 11 NBA stars and Christian Laettner, who was about to enter the NBA after leading Duke to two straight NCAA championships. 
Walker said he hopes the world championships team has more college players than the "Dream Team." 
"Our concern at the USOC is not so much with professionals, but that we give everyone an equal shot at making the team," he said. 
Walker noted that USA Bas­ketball will pick the squad for the world championships in Toronto. 
"We at the USOC don't select, we just approve the process," he said. 
Newton, the University of Kentucky athletic director who is president of USA Basketball, told USA Today that the world championship team "will not be restricted to NBA players. But common sense tells me the best players in the U.S. are in the NBA." 
Newton added, "There are a lot of young NBA players out there. From what we under­stand, there is interest." 
USA Basketball, the sport's national governing body, meets Feb. 1 in Chicago to begin the process of forming the team by appointing a player and coach selection committee. 
Candidates for the team could include Orlando's Shaquille O'Neal, Charlotte's Larry John­son and Alonzo Mourning, Cleveland's Brad Daugherty and Mark Price, Phoenix's Kevin Johnson and Golden State's Tim Hardaway. The coach likely will come from the NBA. 
The team that competes at the world championships in July and August 1994 figures to make up the nucleus of the 1996 U.S. Olympic team. 
College players traditionally have stocked U.S. teams in world championships. 
Illinois' Henson gets 600th with 82-66 win over Penn St 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP)-After Illinois' 82-66 Big Ten win Thursday night over Penn State, everybody was talking about coach Lou Henson's 600th career win. 
But there were two other numbers that caught Henson's eye, five and 24. The mistake­prone lllini committed only five turnovers and they made all 24 free throw attempts. 
"A couple of things happened that I'll always remember. I'm not so sure we've played a game at Illinois where we've had just five turnovers. I'm not so sure I've had a team make 24 consecutive free throws," said Henson. 
"We did a lot of things right and we had to do them in order to win the ball game." 
The lllini (1 0-4 overall, 3-1 Big Ten) set a school-record 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios Pool & Volleyball Laundry Facility ND Shuttle Service 
City Bus line 2/10 of a mile from campus 

Affordable Student Housing 

Lou Henson 
sinking all 24 free throws. The previous mark was 16 of 16 against Wisconsin in 1985. 
The Nittany Lions (6-8, 1-4) stayed close most of the game, but were buried under an avalanche of free throws and jump shots in the game's final minutes. 
Henson, who has a career record of 600-286, is the 16th coach in NCAA history to attain 600 career wins. He's won 360 
Now Accepting Applications 
games at Illinois and previously 
coached at Hardin-Simmons 
and New Mexico State. 
Despite the personal 

achievement, marked by a brief 
post-game ceremony, Henson 
gave credit to players, coaches 
and fans. 
"This was a team effort. It's 

nice to win 600, but it's a team 
effort." he said. 
Henson noted that he has now 

coached in 1,055 games in col­
lege and highr school. 
"No one deserves that much 

suffering," he joked. 
Asked if he'll now pursue 700 · career wins, the 61-year-old 
Henson replied, "That's a lot of 
suffering." 
In the game, the Illini didn't 

get any breathing room until 
they managed a 9-1 run early 
in the second half to go up 44­
34. Illinois led 62-55 with six 
MCC 
continued from page 28 
us." 
Though the MCC is expected to retain most of its bids, the conference lost this privilege in its top money-making sport­men's basketball. 
Rosenthal believes that the conference is going to need 
minutes remaining and slowly pulled away. 
Rennie Clemons added 16 points and Andy Kaufmann 11 for Illinois. Kaufmann, Illinois' leading scorer, did not start be­cause he was late to a team practice. he played only 20 minutes but still managed to score in double figures for the 47th straight game. 
Clemons drew raves from Henson, who's been concerned about his team's play at point guard. 
"He moved the ball and didn't turn it over. He scored for us. That was one of the keys," Henson said. 
Penn State's John Amaechi, a sophomore center, scored 29 points and pulled down 14 re­bounds. He also had five blocked shots. 
some "strong replacements" in that sport, but he said that Notre Dame will not be one of them. 
"As of now, we are comfort­able as an independent in men's basketball," he stated. 
Though it is unlikely, the MCC could decide to disband after its 1993-94 reevaluation. If this happens, Rosenthal thinks Notre Dame could be a 
-
competitor as an all-sports in­
dependent  or  look into the  
possibility  of  another  
conference.  

The bottom line is that he is interested in doing what is best for Notre Dame's athletic pro­gram. 
"We are open to doing what is best for our teams," Rosenthal said. "Right now, that means staying in the MCC." 

All Net 
continued from page 28 
bruises, gathered in. offensive rebounds, and ·practiced with an inspiring all-out style; . Hodges, who led the team in 1 three-pointers and could dial for long distance in the clutch faster than an AT&T operator; and Hansen, a student of the game who never made mis­takes when given an opportu­nity. 
The value ofthese three play­ers can hardly be judged by their statistics, as they com­bined for just ten points, five rebounds and three assists per game. 
Onlytheir intangibles-leadership, effort and desire-separate them from this year's reserves, Trent Tucker, Rodney McCray and Cory Williams. · 
And only with these intangi­bles do teams win three straight NBA crowns. 


_._ 
The Observer 

page 20 Friday, January 22, 1993 








University of Notre Dame 
Summer Session 1993 Course Ust 
-
The 1993 summer session will begin on Monday, June 21 (enrollment), and end on Wednesday, August 4 (final exams). Some courses-prima­rily in science, mathematics and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Building) beginning on Friday, February 12. 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate 
students in residence during the spring semester of 1993 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use DART 1) to register for summer courses and 
2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 25. Instructions on the use of DART for summer and a PIN (personal identification number) will be sent to all continuing students in mid-February. Course call numbers, along with all other course information, will be published in the summer 
session Bulletin. 
Aerospace Engineering 

AERO 499. Undergraduate Research 
Mechanical Engineering 
ME 226. Mechanics II 

ME 321. Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics ME 327. Thermodynamics ME 334. Fluid Mechanics ME 342. Engineering Economy (London) ME 498. Engineering, Society and the International Community (London) 
ME 499. Undergraduate Research 

Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Graduate Independent Study 
AME 598. Advanced Studies 
AME 599. Thesis Direction 

AME 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
AME 699. Research and Dissertation 
AME 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
American Studies 

AMST 326. The Sporting Life: Athletics in American 
Culture 
AMST 449. Writing Nonfiction 
AMST 498. Special Studies 
AMST 599. Thesis Direction 

AMST 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
·• 
Anthropology 

ANTH 490. Archaeological Field School ANTH 491. Ethnographic Field Methods and Techniques ANTH 498. Directed Readings 
Architecture 

ARCH 598. Advanced Studies ARCH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Art, Art History and Design 

ARHI 453/553. Nineteenth-Century European Art 
ARHI 473. Michelangelo and Art of the Maniera 
ARHI 475/575. Directed Readings in Art History 
ARHI 599. Thesis Direction 

ARHI 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ARST 209/210. Basic Ceramics 
ARST 243/443. Metal Casting 
ARST 245/445. Metal Sculpture 
ARST 289/489. Silkscreen 
ARST 409/509. Ceramics Studio 

ARST 409W/509W. Ceramic Art Workshop 
ARST 433/533. Painting Studio 

ARST 435W/535W. Painting Workshop 
ARST 499S. Special Studies 
ARST 585. Photography Studio 
ARST 589. Printmaking Studio 
ARST 676. Directed Readings 
ARST 696. Thesis Project 
Biological Sciences 
BIOS 494. Directed Readings BIOS 499. Undergraduate Research 

DART will be available for summer registration from March 15 to April 2 and from May 3 to June 25. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during these periods; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 25, must complete the standard summer session application/ course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1993 will be $130 per credit hour plus 
a $30 general fee. 
BIOS 569. Practical Aquatic Biology BIOS 599. Thesis Direction BIOS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research BIOS 672. Special Problems BIOS 699. Research and Dissertation 

BIOS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Rusmess Ammrnmsuation 
ACCT 231. Principles of Accounting I ACCT 232. Principles of Accounting II ACCT 334. Cost Analysis and Control ACCT 371. Financial Accounting Theory and 
Practice I ACCT 476. Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230. Statistics in Business BA 362. Legal Environment of Business BA 490. Corporate Strategy FIN 231. Business Finance 
FIN 360. Managerial Economics FIN 361. Business Conditions Analysis FIN 376. Business Financial Management MGT 231. Principles of Management MGT 240. Computers in Business MGT 382. Career Management MGT 475. Human Resource Management MARK 231. Principles of Marketing MARK 492. Advertising MARK 495. Public Relations 
Chemical Engineering 
CHEG 499. Undergraduate Research CHEG 599. Thesis Direction CHEG 600. Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699. Research and Dissertation CHEG 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Chemistry and Biochemistry 
CHEM 116. General Chemistry CHEM 118. General Chemistry CHEM 223. Elementary Organic Chemistry I CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry 
Laboratory !-Section 1 · CHEM 223L. Elementary Organic Chemistry 
Laboratory !-Section 2 CHEM 224. Elementary Organic Chemistry II CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry 
Laboratory 11-Section 1 CHEM 224L. Elementary Organic Chemistry 
Laboratory 11-Section 2 CHEM 477. Directed Readings CHEM 499R. Undergraduate Research CHEM 599R. Thesis Direction CHEM 694. Directed Readings CHEM 699R. Research and Dissertation CHEM 699Z. Visiting Student Research CHEM 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences 
CE 498. Directed Studies 
CE 598R. Advanced Studies 
CE 599R. Thesis Direction 
CE 600R. Nonresident Thesis Research 
CE 698R. Advanced Topics 
CE 699R. Research and Dissertation 
CE 700R. Nonresident Dissertation Research GEOS 499. Undergraduate Research 
Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures 
CLGR 200. Intensive Greek CLGR 500. Intensive Greek CLLA 200. Intensive Latin CLLA 500. Intensive Latin MLAR 402. Beginning Syriac MLAR 452. Syriac Readings MLAR 500. Beginning Syriac MLAR 500A. Syriac Readings MLJA 340. Contemporary Japanese Culture 
Communication and Theatre 
GOTH 201. Basics of Film and Television GOTH 205. Introduction to Theatre GOTH 221. Acting: Process GOTH 400/500. Asian and Third World Cinema GOTH 411/511. History of Film and Television Since 
World War II GOTH 461/561. Introduction to Film and Video 
Production · GOTH 493A. Broadcast Internship (WNDU) GOTH 499. Research for the Advanced 
Undergraduate Student GOTH 501. Comparative Approaches to the Media GOTH 516A. Multicultural Narrative GOTH 516B. Contemporary Hollywood: Coppola 
and Lee GOTH 516C. The Romance in Film and Television GOTH 560. Television Production GOTH 598. Special Studies GOTH 599. Thesis Direction GOTH 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Computer Applications 
CAPP 243. Introduction to Computers CAPP 249. Self and Corporate Culture: Why People 
Do the Things They Do CAPP 497. Special Projects CAPP 498. Departmental Tutorial CAPP 499. Special Topics 
Computer Science and Engineering 
CSE 232. Advanced Programming CSE 332. Microcomputers CSE 498. Directed Studies 
Economics 
ECON 224. Principles of Economics II ECON 350. Economics of Labor Institutions ECON 421. Money, Credit and Banking ECON 498. Special Studies ECON 599. Thesis Direction ECON 600. Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 697. Special Topics ECON 698. Directed Readings ECON 699. Research and Dissertation ECON 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 

Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 21 

<.· 

Elecbical Engineering 
EE 222. Introduction to Electrical Science 
EE 242. Electronics I 
EE 498. Directed Studies 
EE 499. Undergraduate Research 
EE 598R. Advanced Studies 
EE 599. Thesis Direction 
EE 600. Nonresident Research 
EE 698. Advanced Topics 
EE 699. Research and Dissertation 
EE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Engineering Nondepartmental 
EG 498. Research Experience for Undergraduates 
English 
ENGL 301W. Writing Short Fiction 
ENGL 322. Readings in the Novel 
ENGL 328A. Children's Literature 
ENGL 4098. Writing Non-Fiction Prose 
ENGL 41 OA. Fundamentals of Poetry 
ENGL 440. Shakespeare 
ENGL 470. Modern British Literature 
ENGL 489. Religious Imagination in American Literature 
ENGL 498. Directed Readings 
ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers­
Section 1 ENGL 500. English for Non-Native Speakers­Section 2 ENGL 513A. Introduction to Continental Literary Theory 
ENGL 580. Early American Literature 
ENGL 598. Special Studies 
ENGL 599. Thesis Direction 
ENGL 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ENGL 699. Research and Dissertation 
ENGL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
German and Russian Languages and Literatures 
GE 101. Beginning German I GE 102. Beginning German II GE 103. Beginning German Ill GE 240. Conversational German GE 500. German Graduate Reading 
Government and International Studies 
GOVT 406. Congress and Foreign Policy GOVT 465/565. Global Conflict and Cooperation 
After the Cold War: ANew World Order? GOVT 497/498. Undergraduate Directed Readings GOVT 599. Thesis Direction GOVT 600. Nonresident Thesis Research GOVT 692. Directed Readings-Government GOVT 696. Examination Preparation GOVT 699. Research and Dissertation GOVT 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
History 
HIST 311. Women and Power in Medieval Europe 
HIST 317. The First World War; European Society and Total War HIST 464. The Twentieth Century American West HIST 479. Religion in American Life HIST 490. Directed Readings HIST 590. Directed Readings HIST 599. Thesis Direction HIST 600. Nonresident Thesis Direction HIST 697. Directed Readings HIST 699. Research and Dissertation HIST 700. Nonresident Research and Dissertation 
Program in the History and Philosophy of Science 
HPS 599. Thesis Direction HPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research HPS 603. Directed Readings HPS 604. Directed Readings 
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
liPS 396/496. Directed Readings liPS 427/527. Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice-Section 1 liPS 427/527. Conflict Resolutiolil: Theory and Practice-Section 2 liPS 434/534. The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Suber and Freire liPS 477/577. The War System and Contemporary Social Movements liPS 501. Colloquium on Cross-Cultural 
Understanding 
liPS 530. Peace Studies Laboratory 
liPS 599. Thesis Direction 
liPS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
liPS 692. Directed Readings 
liPS 695. Field Experiences 
Materials Science and Engineering 
MSE 225. Science of Engineering Materials 
MSE 499. Undergraduate Research 
MSE 598. Advanced Studies 
MSE 599. Thesis Direction 
MSE 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
MSE 698. Advanced Topics 
MSE 699. Research and Dissertation 
MSE 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Mathematics 
MATH 104. Finite Mathematics 
MATH 105. Elements of Calculus I 
MATH 106. Elements of Calculus II 
MATH 126. Calculus II 
MATH 211. Computer Programming and Problem Solving 
MATH 499. Undergraduate Reading 
MATH 511. Computer Programming and Problem Solving MATH 553. Topics in Discrete Mathematics MATH 698. Advanced Graduate Reading MATH 699. Research and Dissertation MATH 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Medieval Institute 
Ml 470/570. Medieval Latin 
Ml 497. Directed Readings 
Ml 517. Paleography 
Ml 597. Directed Readings 
Ml 599. Thesis Direction 
Ml 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Ml 699. Research and Dissertation 
Ml 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Music 
MUS 222. Introduction to Symphonic Music MUS 310/510. Piano MUS 311/511. Organ MUS 313. Guitar MUS 314/514. Voice MUS 316/516. Cello MUS 498. Undergraduate Special Studies MUS 598. Special Studies MUS 599. Thesis Direction MUS 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
Philosophy 
PHIL 201. Introduction to Philosophy 
PHIL 221. Philosophy of Human Nature 
PHIL 225. Scientific Perspectives of Humanity 
PHIL 234. The Art of Peacemaking: Gandhi, Buber and Freire PHIL 246. Ethics and Business PHIL 261. Philosophy of Religion PHIL 498. Directed Readings PHIL 603. Directed Readings PHIL 699. Research and Dissertation PHIL 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Physics 
PHYS 221. Physics I PHYS 222. Physics II PHYS 499. Undergraduate Research PHYS 598. Special Topics PHYS 699. Research and Dissertation PHYS 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Program of Liberal Studies 
PLS 41 0. Politics: Between the Human and the Divine 
PLS 411. Defining America: Founding Texts and Contemporary Challenges 
PLS 477. Directed Readings 
PLS 501. Augustine, Confessions 
PLS 502. Moral Development Education 
PLS 503. English Romantic Poetry and Poetics 
PLS 504. Gospel ofJohn 
PLS 505. Rousseau, Emile 
PLS 506. Newman, Oxford University Sermons on Faith and Reason 
PLS 507. Dar\Nin and Creation 
PLS 508. Hamilton, Madison and Jay, The Federalist Papers 
Psychology 
PSY 341. Experimental Psychology 1: Statistics PSY 341 L. Experimental Psychology 1: Laboratory PSY 351. Child Development PSY 354. Abnormal Psychology PSY 375. Behavioral Pediatrics PSY 397. Special Studies PSY 487/593. Critical Thinking PSY 497. Special Studies PSY 560. Research Methodology 
PSY 561. Foundations of Counseling 
PSY 562. Group Dynamics 
PSY 599. Thesis Direction 
PSY 600. Nonresident Thesis Direction 
PSY 663. Psychopathology 
PSY 678. Seminar in Family Therapy 
PSY 691 A. Advanced Special Issues in Counseling 
PSY 691 B. Advanced Issues in Statistics and Research Design 
PSY 693. Reading Projects: Special Topics 
PSY 695. Research Projects: Special Topics 
PSY 699. Research and Dissertation 
PSY 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Romance Languages and Literatures 
ROFR 101. Beginning French I 
ROFR 102. Beginning French II 
ROFR 103. Intermediate French 
ROFR 104. Conversational French 
ROFR 399. Special Studies 
ROFR 401. French Poetry 
ROIT 101. Beginning Italian I 
ROIT 102. Beginning Italian II 
ROIT 103. Intermediate Italian 
ROIT 104. Conversational Italian 
ROIT 399. Special Studies 
ROSP 101. Beginning Spanish I 
ROSP 102. Beginning Spanish II 
ROSP 103. Intermediate Spanish 
ROSP 104. Conversational Spanish 
ROSP 325. Film and Literature of Latin America 
ROSP 399. Special Studies 
ROFR 500. French Graduate Reading 
ROPO 500. Portuguese Graduate Reading 
ROSP 500. Spanish Graduate Reading 
ROFR 597. Directed Readings 
ROFR 599. Thesis Direction 
ROFR 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ROFR 697. Special Studies 
ROSP 597. Directed Readings 
ROSP 599. Thesis Direction 
ROSP 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
ROSP 697. Special Studies 
Sociology 
SOC 102. Introduction to Sociology 
SOC 205. The Structure of the Social World 
SOC 21 0. Gender Roles and Violence in Society 
SOC 220. Social Psychology 
SOC 307. Issues of Prejudice and Social Inequality in the United States SOC 319. Sociology of Sport SOC 421. Sociology of Business SOC 498. Directed Readings SOC 599. Thesis Direction SOC 600. Nonresident Thesis Research SOC 655. Directed Readings SOC 699. Research and Dissertation SOC 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Theology 
THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ Historical-Section 1 
THEO 200. Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ Historical-Section 2 
THEO 224. Why God Became Human 
THEO 250. Roads to God 
THEO 500. Introduction to Graduate Studies 
THEO 500A. Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition . THEO 502A. History of Jewish Theological Concepts as Reflected in Jewish Liturgy 
THEO 506. Prophets 
THEO 509. Intensive Greek 
THEO 522. Reformation History 
THEO 529. Anglican Theology: Roots and Branches 
THEO 530. Fundamentals of Systematic Theology 
THEO 532. Christology 
THEO 533. Ecclesiology 
THEO 534. Doctrine of God 
THEO 536. Theology of Grace 
THEO 539. Spirituality 
THEO 545. Comparative Theology 
THEO 551. Catholic Social Ethics 
THEO 552. Catholic Social Ethics 
THEO 553. Women and the Theological Enterprise 
THEO 560. Liturgical History 
THEO 561. Christian Initiation 
THEO 562. Eucharist 
THEO 563. Liturgical Prayer 
THEO 564. Liturgical Year 
THEO 565. Liturgical Theology 
THEO 5668. Penance and Reconciliation 
THEO 573L. Comps Review-Liturgical Studies 
THEO 573T. Camps Review-Theological Studies 
THEO 574C. Psalms in the Worship of IsraeL 
THEO 580A. Liturgical Catechesis 
THEO 598. Directed Readings 
THEO 599. Thesis Direction 
THEO 600. Nonresident Thesis Research 
THEO 699. Research and Dissertation 
THEO 700. Nonresident Dissertation Research 
)· 


-

page 22 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Cross Country ski equipment may be rented from RecSports at the Rock Thursday and Friday from 4:30-5:30 p.m., Saturday from 12-1 p.m. and Sunday from 4:30~5:30 p.m.. For more information, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
Entries are being taken for (~ampus indoor soccer for men and women, badminton doubles for men and women, and co-ree water volleyball and the interhall swim relays are due January 27. 
The Badin Aerobathon will be held January 23 at Stepan Center from 9 a.m.-5 p.m .. Classes will begin every hour on the hour alternating between high impact and a combination of high and low impact aerobics. The fee is $3 for unlimited classes and all proceeds go to the Women's Care Center in South Bend. 
The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will be having beginners practices on Thursday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 6:30­
8:30 p.m. in 219 Rockne. No experience necessary. All are welcome. Advanced classes are Friday 6-8 p.m. and Saturday from 10-12a.m.. If you have questions, please call Laurie 634­4992. 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice will be held Mondays and Thursdays at 7:30 in the JACC above Gate 4. Questions call Matt Zinno 634-1777. 
Competitive volleyball Is being played at the Rock on Mondays from 12-1:15 p.m.. If you have questions. please call Mike at 63.1-5689. 
The Ultimate season is finally getting started. Practices are going to be held from 10-11 p.m. in Loftus on Wednesdays starting this Wednesday. January 27 will be n official tryout for the team. All are welcome. 
Late Night Olympics Dealine for team signups is 9 p.m. January 25. See your LNO Hall Rep for details. 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse team has practice on Sunday from 8-9 p.m. at Loftus. 
The first official rugby practice is January 26 from 9-11 p.m. at Loftus. Rookies should come at 8:30. Bring mouthpieces and 
S.A.C.S.. For further information, call Mike at 634-1586. 
ND/SMC Equestrian team will hold an intramural horse show at Kensington Riding Center on Sunday. For more information. please call Megan at 634-2784. If you are interested in showing at Indiana University call Katie as soon as possible 284-5520. 
lnterhall football equipment return will be accepted on January 27 from 4-6 p.m. at Gate 9 of the Stadium. 
The Notre Dame men's volleyball team (5-0) will play the University of Michigan on January 22 at 7:30 p.m. and again on January 23 at 4 p.m. in the Pit In the JACC. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. in the basement of Farley. All are welcome. Bring a Bible. If you have questions, call E.D. at 634-1276. 
Cheerleadlng and leprechaun tryouts information meeting will be held February 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Football Auditorium. The clinies start February 15. 
ND/SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting on January 25 to discuss officer elections. All interested in running for office should attend the meeting at 218 O'Shag at 7 p.m .. If you have questions, call Rudy Bryce at 634-4104. 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 ~ '94 school year Call232 ~ 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
Riddick Bowe prepares for Dokes 

Planning for further defenses of title 
SCOTRUN, Pa. (AP)­Although heavyweight cham­pion Riddick Bowe will fight Michael Dokes in his first de­fense, Dokes is not the only op­ponent on Bowe's mind. 
Before a training session at Caesars Pocono Resorts on Thursday for the Dokes fight Feb. 6 at Madison Square Gar­den, Bowe talked about Lennox Lewis, George Foreman, Tommy Morrison and Evander Holyfield. 
Of those, Holyfield could be a Bowe opponent before the end of the year. 
Rock Newman, Bowe's man­ager, said the champion will follow the Dokes fight with a defense against Ray Mercer in May, possibly a defense against an opponent to be determined in August, and then a rematch against Holyfield in the fall. 
Bowe won the undisputed title with a 12-round unanimous decision over Holyfield last Nov. 13 at Las Vegas. 
The WBC withdrew title recognition from Bowe and awarded the belt to Lewis after Bowe refused to make his first defense against the Briton. 
Bowe accused Lewis of not wanting to fight him and said, "I think you guys know who the real champion is. 
"You can ask Lewis who he beat for the title and when. He can't tell you. I can tell you who I beat." 
Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on salt. 



American Heart Association WE'RE FIGHTING Fa< YOJR LIFE 



DEADLINE -JANUARY 20 
CAMPUS Indoor Soccer -Men & Women Badminton Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Water Volleyball 
IH Swim Relays 


DEADLINE -JANUARY 27 
Jl. .a· ..6 ,~ ~' • • II".-t _. "~' ~ 'ill!la,; 1/.-t ... •· ,__. T'.., ,· t" ,.-~ #~ ··• • • • •· t :.: .. • • • • • • ' • ' ~ ~ ~ " c 1 ­
AP File Photo Former champion Evander Holyfield is mentioned in regards to a rematch with Riddick Bowe planned for the fall. 
As for the 44-year-old Fore­man, who was heavyweight champion in 1973-'74 and who wants to fight either Bowe or Lewis, Bowe said, "George is crazy. He can't beat anybody in the top 10." 
Morrison, a white heavyweight contender. also was put down by Bowe, still recognized as 

Happy Birthday 



Roxy! 
Love, 

THE GLOBE 
CAMPUS Racquetball Doubles -M·en & Women Co-Ree Volleyball 
IH Team Racquetball 
Grad/Fac/Staff Volleyball 

champion by the IBF and WBA. 
"Take away his left hook, and he's back in the amateur ranks," Bowe said. "He can't take a punch. He can't beat me on one of my bad days." 
Another possible Bowe oppo­nent was mentioned earlier by Eddie Futch, the champion's 81­year-old trainer. 
·!~•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••-----•••••-••-••••••••••w•••••~•••-• •••• • 
-------~ ---~­
---~----------~--------~~~. 
c , , , ., ., l ' r 

Friday, January 22, 1993 

The Observer page 23 
Hurley trying to carry Blue Devils ... 
Krzyzewski wants to change guard's role on team 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP)-Follow­reaction is, 'Well I'll do it.' In said. "In some respect, the kids ing two losses, Duke's first those types of situations he on this team have not had as order of business is to get needs to run our team a little good an opportunity to do that Bobby Hurley back on his game. bit better." as my previous teams." 
Blue Devils coach Mike No. 6 Duke saw its 36-game Much was expected of the Krzyzewski said his senior point home winning streak snapped two-time defending NCAA guard is trying to carry too against Virginia. Krzyzewski felt champs this season, considering much of the scoring load while the fans should have ac­Hurley, Grant Hill and Thomas also being the team's emotional knowledged the team's success Hill returned. But a pair of leader. after the game with a standing Atlantic Coast Conference losses 
"I don't think that just has to ovation. last week to Georgia Tech and be Bobby's role," Krzyzewski "If we don't appreciate past Virginia highlighted the Blue · said. "Bobby, being who he has efforts and also appreciate cur­Devils' inside weaknesses and been for our program -which rent efforts by teams that op­lack of offensive chemistry. has been great-maybe he's pose us, then we are missing "It's a different mood, a dif­trying to take on too much. the big picture and the atmo­ferent atmosphere," Krzyzewski 
"We need to monitor that. I sphere which is created for said of his squad, now 12-2 and don't mind Bobby shooting but these kids is totally unaccept­an uncharacteristic two _games he doesn't have to take the first able," he said. "I won't have off the ACC pace. "I have to shot each time down the court that happen as long as I'm make sure that not one of them 
-
in tough situations. He needs to coach at Duke. takes too much upon use the people around him "I love my team. I am proud of themselves. better." them and they are working "There's a perception that 
Hurley, fighting a shooting hard. We are going to continue prevails as a .result of winning slump, was ineffective outside to develop and we'll follow our two national championships, against in Sunday's loss to Vir­own agenda." but our program did that, not ginia, making 1 of 9 from 3-But Krzyzewski was glad his this team. The last two years point range. team shed the perception of be­there has been talk that the 
"When you play a quick week ing perfect. only way we can be successful like that ... at times you don't "These kids have to be al­is to be perfect. What a sad, sad think as well. Not so much lowed to make mistakes. They state of affairs if that takes physically, but mentally. Bobby's have to be allowed to lose," he place. 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
1993--94 

EDITOR~IN~CHIEF 
Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged bo apply. Applicants should have a strong int~2rest in · journalism and should possess S()lid communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editiJng and/or management is helpful. Previotts nevvspaper experience is also helpf~J, but not required. 
i 


Applicants should submit a resu1ne and a five­page personal statement of intetzt to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact ~tfonicja Yant at 
.·hh~ ·, :,flJhe Observer,, 631..,454~2 .~~f·;}~;~;j..··,. ;..~.-Jf~.:: 
': . ··:~~-{., ~< ·~.~~ ... .,, ,•• . ·'.. ·... ···.y: . -.../·',•
' . 
New Temple coach names assistants 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-Ron Dickerson, Temple's new head football coach, Thursday named five assistants. 
Joining the Temple staff are defensive coordinator Fred Manuel, tight ends coach Eric Gudger, outside linebackers coach Ted Heath, defensive line coach John Hendrick, and in­side linebackers coach Chet Parlavecchio. 
Dickerson said all five have "an Eastern recruiting flair. They all carry my theme of re­cruiting locally. And as I have said, we are going to stay at home and recruit this area hard." 
Manuel coached the defensive backfield at Louisville the last two years. Heath is a former coach in the Canadian Football League and most recently was defensive line coach at Central Florida. 
Hendrick is a former assistant at Kansas State, while Gudger was an assistant to Dickerson at Clemson and_Parlavecchio coached at Bloomfield and Irv­ington high schools in New Jersey. 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 

•lnternat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 


•Expert travel advice.''·cr~ 

Council~" 
1153 N. Deabom St., I .. Chic.l90,11606lt1'~;$~. ;_, 


311·951·0185 
Call For A Free Student Travel Magazine! 


-~------~-----~~~ ·~ 
page 24 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 
... 
-
Bulls break Nets' five-game win streak 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP)-Michael Jordan scored 12 of his 30 points in tho first quarter and tho Chicago Bulls went on to end the New Jersey Nets' five· gamt~ winning streak, 107 ·94 Thursday night. 
The Nets, winners of 11 of 16 games, looked at the matchup with the Bulls as a yardstick measuring themselves against the two­time defending NBA champions and Eastern Con· ference pacesetters this sea­son. 
Chuck Daly's team didn't measure up in losing to the Bulls for the eighth straight time, but they showed flashes of being ready to contend down the road .. 
Scottie Pippen and B.J. Armstrong, who hit his first five shoL'i after coming oft' the bench, added 18 points each for Chicago, while Horace Grant had 15 points and 12 rebounds. 
Kenny Anderson and Derriek Coleman each scored 


Redwings defeat Blues in second period comeback 
North Stars down Senators, Bruin, Maple Leafs, Whalers also winners 
DETROIT (AP) -Jimmy Car­son and Paul Ysebaert scored back-to-baek goals late in the second period to lead the De­troit Red Wings to a 5-3 come­back victory over the St. Louis Blues on Thursday night. 
The Wings are unbeaten in their last five games (4-0-1}, but have trailed in four of those games. 
Ron Wilson had given the Blues a 2-1 lead at 7:20 of the second period before the Red Wings went ahead on the goals by Carson at 15:34 while De­troit enjoyed a two-man advan­tage and YsebaPrt at 17:58. 
When the Blues cut the Red Wings' advantage to 4-3 in the third period, Vladimir Kon­stantinov clinched it for Detroit with an empty-net goal with 6.4 seconds to play. 
North Stars 7, Senators 2 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn.-Russ Courtnall scorPd his third career hat trick, giving him nine goals in his last nine games and leading the Minnesota North Stars to a 7·2 victory over the Ottawa Senators. 
Courtnall also assisted on Bobby Smith's goal. The North Stars are 12-0-0 against first­year expansion teams since a 1980 loss to Edmonton. 
The Senators, on a six-game losing streak, have dropped their first 23 road games. At 4­43-3, they are on pace to break the modern NI-IL record for futility; allowing four or more. 
A crowd of 10,265, smallest this season at Met Center, watched Courtnall get his first three-goal game since the North Stars acquired him from Montreal during the ofTseason for Brian Bellows. 
Bruins 5, Flyers 4 

PHILADELPHIA-'-Dave Reid's second goal of the game, with 
8:43 remaining, lifted the Boston Bruins to a 5-4 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers. 
Reid picked up a rebound in the left circle and lifted the puck into the top of the net, past goaltender Tommy Soderstrom's glove. 
Earlier in the third period, Philadelphia scored twice to tie the game. Brent Fedyk's 16th goal, a wristshot from the slot at 8:37 of the third that beat Boston goalie Andy Moog, closed the lead to 4-3. 

Less than two minutes later, at 10:32, Garry Galley's second goal of the night tied it. He firPd a slapshot after Rod Brind'Amour beat Adam Oates on a faceofT. 
Maple Leafs 6, Lightning 1 
TAMPA, Fla.-Mike Krushelnyski scored twice as the Toronto Maple Leafs, with the help of three power-play goals, beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 6-1 in a penalty· plagued game. 
Five players scored for the Maple Leafs (22-19-7), who won for the fifth time in seven games and are 4-1-1 in their last six road games. The Maple Leafs are in fourth place in the Norris Division and lead St. Louis by seven points in the battle for the final playoff spot. 
Last-place Tampa Bay (15-32­
2} continued its downward spi­ral in the Norris, losing its sev­enth straight game. The ex· pansion Lightning have lost 12 of 13 and 24 of their last 29. The game fHatuwd 140 pHnalty minutes, 75 on Tampa Bay and 65 on Toronto. 
Whalers 4, Sharks 2 

HAHTFOHD, Conn.-Terry Yake had a go11l and an assist as the Hartford Whalers beat the San Jose Sharks 4-2, ending a five-game losing streak. 
The Whalers raised their record to 7-0-0 against expansion teams this season. They're 6­30-4 against the rest of the league. 
Zarley Zalapski, Eric Weinrich and Jamie Leach also scored as the Whalers moved a point ahead of their worst previous start, when they were 12-30-5 after 47 games in 1982-83. 
Dean Evason scored both goals for the Sharks, who have lost nine straight and are 1-24-1 since Thanksgiving. 

L_ 
Friday, January 22, 1993 The Observer page 25 

NO women's track team to Purdue 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's track team will open its 1993 indoor campaign this Saturday when it travels to West Lafayette, Ind., for the Purdue Invitational. 
This weekend's traveling squad is expected to be one of the largest of the year as the Irish will be able to enter more than the customary three ath­letes per event. This will enable a number of athletes to gain competitive experience prior to the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Indoor Track Championships to be hosted by Notre Dame on January 29. 
Among the women expected to lead the Irish in West Lafayette is senior captain Lisa Gorski, competing in the mid­dle distance and distance events. Gorski boasts an indoor best of 3:04.35 in the 1000 me­ters, as well as times of 
10:19.33 in the 3000 meters and 18:19.16 in the 5000 me­ters outdoors. 
Fellow senior Karen Harris hopes to continue her solid past performances in the field events. Her bests include a 45 feet 7 1/3 inch shot toss, and a 133 feet 9 inch discus throw, both coming in her junior sea­son. 
~~f&NEf PICfURES 
presents 

~faJJrn Fri: 5:00. 7:00, 9:00 Sat·Sun: t: 3:00, 5:00. 7:00, 




lepR~~~!JUD
{E] Sat·Sun: 7:15, 9:30 (only) 
The human spirit... 
ALIVE~ 
Fri: 4:30, 7:00, 9:45 Sat·Sun: 1:30, 4:30, 7:00. 9:45 
,... 


z 
"' ffi 
a: 
z <§ 
z 
w 
a: 
Ill 
J < 

Midwe~tern C~; ~·.· 
;-o'r,_. 
~ 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------~g 



MCC will survive loss O'f Duquense, Dayton 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
The Midwestern Collegiate Conference is still going strong, despite this week's departure of Duquense and last month's loss of Dayton. 
The only major affect these moves will have on the confer­ence is the loss of its automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament in men's basketball. 
When Dayton jumps to the Great Midwest Conference next season. the MCC will lose the bid because it will no longer have six members that have been in the MCC for five years. But, the conference can apply for an automatic bid for the 1994-95 season. 
"With loss of Duquense, the most damage was done from an 

JEA E VANDAMME 
NOWHERE TO RUN 
Fri: 5:15, 7:30, 9:30 Sat·Sun: 12:30,2:45,5:15, 7:30, ~ 9:30 



OOME11~ ~ 
Sat·Sun: 2:00, 4:45 (only) 

HEXED 
Frl: 5:15,7:30, 10:00 rn1 Sat·Sun: 1:15,3:15, 5:15,7:30, L!!J 10:00 
image standpoint," MCC as­sistant commissioner Mike Hermann said. 
Duquense, which joined the MCC this season, was not pleased with the conference. Also, Dayton's move affected the school's decision to return to the Atlantic 10. 
"There has been a renewed commitment to make Duquense athletics a factor at the national level, and we believe with the resources available in the Atlantic 10 we will be able to continue to build upon that commitment," Duquense athletic director Brian Colleary stated. 
La Salle, which ~ntered the MCC with Duquense, has no plans of following it out. 
"We joined the MCC for better competition and for its auto­matic bids," La Salle athletic di-
FREE 

TANNING 

FRI. Jan.22 

Spm-1 am in Lafortune 
brought to you by S.U.B. 
9-1 0:30 JUGGLING CLUB PERFORMANCE 
9-hole mini golf course Antique Photos Photo buttons  Recording booth Lots of food Great giveaways  3 CAMPUS BANDS 8-8:45 Grope for Luna 9-9:45 Victoria's Real  
Caricatures  games  Secret  
10-11:30 Dysfunktion  

all night Steve Martin Movies 
12:1S am. bring pillows and blankets! 
******* gain admittance to all events with your WinterFest wristband available for $3 at the information desk 
rector Bob Mullen said. "Our coaches and teams are thrilled with the MCC." 
Though the conference lost one automatic bid, it is not ex­pected to lose any more. The MCC champion advances to the NCAAs in men's soccer, volley­ball, women's basketball and baseball. 
One of the key factors in the awarding of automatic bids is its ratings-power index (RPI) and the conference's RPI is not expected to drop. 
"I think it might help the conference's RPI," said Notre Dame assistant athletic director Missy Conboy. 
Dayton came in seventh out of seven teams in the overall sports standings last season, while Duquense has struggled this season. 
With most of its bids in tact, the MCC is looking ahead. The seven remaining MCC schools have all committed to playing the 1993-94 season, and the conference's next move is adding more teams. 
Though the possibility of merging with another confer­ence has been discussed, the MCC's goal is to expand. 
"We want the conference to grow and prosper," Hermann said. "We would like add schools that further our image as a conference of private schools with a commitment to all sports." 

American Heart Association 

UNTIL THERE IS NO LONELINESS, NO DESTITUTION, NO SICKNESS, NO WAR. .. 
Please support the American Red Cross 
Look Who's Smiling Now! Happy 21st Birthday Alicia McKearn Love, Mom 


Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Celebran!e Padre R•chard V. Warner, c.s .c. 
Spontol'ltd by C.1mpu1 M1n11try Coro PrimlY•~ d• Nuertnt S..,ora 


~------------------------~----------------------~ 
page 26 The Observer Friday, January 22, 1993 


NO hockey hopes to cool UIC, UM 
Women's tennis gunning for fourth-ranked Duke without Harris 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 

Returning from a disappoint­ing two-loss performance last weekend, the Notre Dame hockey team will try to rejuve­nate itself tonight and tomor­row night during the final two contests of its six game homes­tand. Facing the University of Illinois-Chicago Flames (7-13-1) and the University of Michigan Wolverines (16-4-3), the Irish are hoping that this weekend's results will bring back the recent winning trend which they were riding prior to their last two defeats. 
UlC, the hockey squad's Fri­day night opponent, currently owns a 5-10-1 record in the Central Collegiate Hockey Asso­
··,~ 

ciation and lies two points ahead of the Irish in league standings. 
In their two previous matches Notre Dame lost 3-2 in the Joyce Fieldhouse before tying the Flames, 4-4, at the UIC Pavilion. UIC played the same opponents as the Irish last weekend, falling to league­leading Miami of Ohio, 5-1, last Saturday night after demolish­ing Kent State, 11-3, the night before. 
Although the Flames do not hold a very impressive record, they are white hot lately, play­ing their best hockey of the season. With important victo­
The Observer/John Rock 
ries over the Universities of
Center David Bankoske readies for a shot earlier this year. Bankoske 
Minnesota and Michigan, re­
and the Irish hockey team are looking to move up in the CCHA rankings 
spectively, along with a huge
with wins this weekend. 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team will begin its 1993 with a trial by fire. 
And it will be without their top extinguisher. 
The 22nd-ranked Irish will face the first of three-straight top-ten teams when they host fourth-ranked Duke at 10:30 
a.m. Saturday at the Eck Pavil­ion. They will be without the services of their number-one singles player Melissa Harris, who recently withdrew from school for personal reasons. 
''I'm very sorry to hear that," remarked the Blue Devil's stunnnd coach GeofT McDonald. 
Purdue meet practice for men's track 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Thn Notre Dame men's track team will begin the 1993 indoor track season by traveling to West Lafayette, Ind. for the Purdue Invitational on January 
_, 2:~. ''I'm anxious to get started," says head track coach Joe Pi­ane whose team has spent the past four months in preparation for the '93 season. The men's squad will bring a large contingent of field event athletes with primary emphasis on the high jump, pole vault and shot put events. The high jump will be one of Notre Dame's strongest events this season as the Irish boast four 6­10 jumpnrs, two of whom have eleared the seven-foot plateau inducting junior captain Todd IIerman and freshman Tom Mescal!. The pole vault events will be manned by Dan Grenough and Chri~ Graves while a trio of freshman will try to make a mark in the shot put. Another strong contingent is the distance runners. They are led by the All-American tandem of John Coyle and Mike McWilliams. The distance squad competed in cross coun­
try during the fall and finished the season with a sixth place finish in the National Champi­onships. Now the Irish harrier brigade heads indoors as a young team with great poten­tial. 
This year's captains are se­nior John Coyle (Howell, N.J.) and Herman. Coyle has earned All-American honors in both cross country ('90) and track ('91 ), and is poised to earn that status in both the indoor and outdoor NCAA races in the dis­tance events. Herman has his sights set on competing in the 




Personal Assistant 
to aid female student in wheelchair with daily life activities such as dressing, eating, and night routine. 
Hourly wage and training provided. 
Please call Kim at 289·483I for more information. 
"But we had a team meeting last night and talked about what a very good team Notre Dame is. Harris is a good player, but I don't think it will affect them that much because one of their strengths is cer­tainly depth." 
Notre Dame's coach Jay Louderback concurred. "We're lucky enough to be very deep," also noting that Harris did not play doubles. "I feel confident in others' stepping up and playing at a higher level." 
Among those "others," Loud­erback will rely on sophomore Laura Schwab and Lisa Tholen to alternate at the vacated top spot. He listed Schwab as the favorite for Saturday's match. 
NCAA meet this year after provisionally qualifying for the meet last year with best efforts of 7-1 1/2 and 7-0 1/2 in indoor and outdoor high jump, respec­tively. 
The Purdue Invitational, however, will not showcase the Irish top performers. 
"This is a warm up meet," says Piane. 
The top distance runners and sprinters will not compete here. The meet is unscored and will serve as competitive preparation for the scored meets to come. 

lisa Tholen 

They'll be facing Duke seniors Julie Exem (ranked number-two in the nation according to ITCA listings) and Susan Sommerville (eighth). Duke features four players in the.top-13, as All­Americans Christine Neuman and Monica Mraz hold down the three and four spots. 
"The rankings are at best an approximation of what is going on," explained McDonald. "There are so many good play­ers and good teams. I try to downplay (the rankings) and just get down to business." 
McDonald remains uncertain about his fifth and sixth posi­tions. The Irish will likely counter with freshman Wendy Crabtree, junior Christy Faustmann, sophomore Sherri Vitale and freshman Holyn Lord. 
Notre Dame, inexperienced and outmatched on paper, hopes to take advantage of their 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship Fellowship Time Friday, Jan. 22 7.. 8:30p.m. 115 Farley 
Come for singing, fellowship and more! Questions? Call Kevin X1384 or Lisa X4290 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
IRISH HOCKEY Friday VS UIC 7:00PM* JACC Ice Rink Saturday vs Michigan 7:00PM* JACC Ice Rink 



#20 WOMEN'S TENNIS Saturday vs Duke 
12:00 PM Eck Pavilion 
FREE Admission 

*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
defeat of Kent State, UIC has 
caused reason for concern 
Prior to its devastation of Kent, UIC's greatest liability was its lack of goal scoring. Recently, it has been able to rely on the outstanding play of goalie John Hillebrandt. 
Referring to the last time Notre Dame and Illinois­Chicago squared off, Irish head coach Ric Schafer said, "We're a different hockey team than we were then. We match up fairly well personnel-wise." 
The Irish will complete their homestand Saturday night against second place Michigan. The Wolverines have defeated the Irish twice this season, 6-1 in the team's season opener and 5-1 in front 18,14 7 fans at the inaugural hockey game of The Palace in Auburn Hills, Michigan. 
Holders of a 12-4-2 CCHA record (16-4-3 overall), the Wolverines are only three points behind league-leading Miami. They swept Ohio State last weekend, allowing just one netting in two games. 
Schafer listed Michigan's strengths as speed, strength, goaltending, and experience in defense. "Perhaps their only weakness is that sometimes they forget how good they are, but they don't even do that often," he said. In order to de­feat the Wolverines, he said that the Irish will need, "outstanding goaltending and the best effort by all players." 
The pulling of Irish goalie 
home court advantage. Duke, which does not have an indoor facility, began practicing just two weeks ago and has met with some uncooperative weather conditions. They will practice at Eck tonight to famil­iarize themselves. 
The match will be the first in an annual home-away series between the two teams. Still, Louderback is familiar with McDonald, formerly the coach at LSU, a long-time rival of the Irish. 
Following Duke, the Irish will tangle with UCLA (fifth) and Minnesota (seventh). 
Greg Louder mid-way through 
the third period of last Satur­
day's 4-3 overtime loss to Kent 
State left a cloud over the Notre 
Dame goaltending situation. 
Schafer lab1\led tonight's starter 
as "to be determined." 
The level of success Notre Dame achieves this weekend will depend on the perfor­mances of many players, one being assistant captain Curtis Janicke, who has scored a point in eleven consecutive games. With seven goals and fourteen assists over the stretch, he has pulled himself up to second place on the team scoring charts with 28 points, two points behind freshman Jamie Ling. lie is tied with Ling for the team lead in league scoring with 25 points. 
Ling, too, is one the key skaters in this weekend's matches. Leading the team all season in scoring, he has earned ten assists in his last seven games. He is the leading freshman scorer in the CCHA. 
Along with individual play, the Irish will also need to improve their special team's play. Their power play has suffered a major drought, falling from second to sixth in the league, and their penalty killing has re­sembled its poorer perfor­mances from early this season. 
With a 4-13-1 league record (6-15-1 overall), the Irish stand at tenth place in the CCflA, two points behind both UIC and Kent. 

~~---------~~----­
-------~--------­





Today 
Friday, January 22, 1993 page 27 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

Cl1993 Watterson/Orstnbuted by Umversal Press Syndlcah! 
BILL WATIERSON 

0~\00SL\ IF \-11:: £.'-JOLI.JE\) LIKE T\-\t. li\OR~L\Ti Of FRCl\'c\ ~ 'SN.o'l-\~r>.ll, \I T\-\RoW\N.G ~It.'s PR~CC\IR')Ij?S 
Rfl..\'S~S TO\JE>\-1 
T\-lt.OLOG\CI\l 
Q\J"t;.ST\Ot-6 FOR \-liM. 
AT SOMI::O:N:-_:E~?'--L.=:=:::::::J 
SURE., At---11) W\-\f>.T 
f>..BO\JT '51-\<:lii~UNG ~tS GE"''C.I\C:.. 
MI\IER\f>..L OFF 
W.E W~U:.? 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Part of a calyx 
& Fiber for rope 10 Take-(rest) 14 Defendant's 
mainstay 15 Sharif 1& Polish-German 
border river 17 Cajun red stick? 19 Sinister fiddler 
20 Implore 21 Erstwhile holidays in Kiev 23 Gregory Hines's 
specialty. 24 Tied, in a way 25 Physicians' 
assn. 28 Andean capital 30 Schlepped 
34lntrepid 3& Bamboozle 38 Dred Scott was 
one 39 Kitty starters 41 Dandy 42 Accepted 43 Squirrel away 44 Guitar ridge 46 Portrayer of 
Lincoln 47 Recluse 
49 Bulls or Bears 51 Map abbr. 52 Pinguid 
54 Owns 56 Last in clarity 59 Bungled &3 Bard's stream 64 Hoosier high 
ground? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


&& Like an eremite 
&7 Lamb who wrote about a 

pig 68 Helen, in Napoli &9ls in debt 70 Minimal gift? 71 Electronic 
sentinel 
DOWN 
1 i.Quien-? (who knows?) 2Zip 3 The Great Commoner 4 Cancel a flight sin direct descent & Cowboy star Gibson 7 Grounded Australian a Source of igneous rock 
9 Sermonize 27 Ritual table 10 Lake bottom in 29 Dropped pop fly 

Wisconsin? 31 Recent
11 Cartoonist's teammate of light bulb Magic

12 To an extreme 32 Happening

13 Antony's friend 33 AI -(firm to 18 Precipitate 
the bite) 22 Bread leavener 
35 Corn Belt 24 Door east of monks? Gary? 
37 Fencer's tool 25 Embarrass 
40Former 2& Carlo or Philadelphia Cassino ball park 
More bivalve lore 







CAMPUS 
Friday 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Glengarry Glen Ross." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission. 
Saturday 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Glengarry Glen Ross." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission. 
Sunday 2 p.m. Faculty Viola and Piano Recital, Christine Rutledge and William Cerny. Arinenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by the Department of Music. 
LECTQRES 
Sunday 4 p.m. "Conversation with Jesus," Vessula Ryden. Room 101, DeBartolo HalL 
:;;:.:

Notre Dame 
Cajun Chicken satidwich Br()iled Turbot Sheph~rd's Pie 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Ravioli Cheese Enchilada Bake 
45 Western resort lake 48Tried 
so Noted 17th-century clergyman 
53 Ornamental stone slab 
55 Ladder for Luigi 56 Nimbus 57 Profess sa Kind of defense 
in football 59 Popular cereal &OColored &1 Sicilian menace &2 High-priced 65 Perimeter 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



Caricatures, Recording Booths, in the LaFortune Ballroom starting at 12:15
Antique Photos, Give-aways and MUCH MORE!!! ** 
Grope for Luna at LaFortune * Victoria's Real Secret 
** 


Dysfu.nktion
8:00 p.m.-1 :00 a.m. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

*** 
FREE All-Night 
* 


Steve Martin Movie-Fest 
.. 




TODAY: 
~---------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------­
.. 
page 28 
JIM VOGL 

All Net 


1---------------~ Collegiate Conference, Notre Dame is 
Bulls' 1993 bench lacking qualities of champions 
How soon we forget. 

Their names will never live in infamy. In fact, all three no longer play in the NBA. yet they were an integral part of league history last season. 
In .June of 1992, reserves Craig Hodges, Cliff Levingston and Bobby Hanson all gave the Chicago Bulls something the current squad desperately lacks-chemistry. 
After feasting on the glory of their second straight championship. owner Jerry Kraus. president Jerry Reinsdorf. coach Phil Jackson and the rest of the Bulls' front office apparently got fat and complacent. 
They licked their chops as they watched their two talented stars Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen on parade in Barcelona over the summer, lustily anticipating another sip of championship champaign in Chicago. 
But. they took for granted what separated the Bulls of' late from the Bulls of' the past-a strong, dedicated supporting cast. 
They forgot about the overtime playoff loss a few years ago in the sacred Boston Garden. when Michael Jordan's record 63 points went for naught. This year brought back haunting memories of Jordan and his "Helpless Eleven," as his 64 weren't enough to defeat even the Orlando Magic. 
Last season, everything came easy to the defending champs. They rolled to a 6 7-15 record, just short of being the best ever. A loss to an expansion team at home was never even mentioned as a sick joke then. 
This year's 26-11 Bulls' record is easily best in the Eastern Conference, and ranks just behind Charles Barkley's Phoenix Suns (25-8) and Seattle (25-1 0). But only because of last year's complete domination, and the historic pressure on NBA teams to three-peat, should this year's early­season performance be a concern. 
One reason for the Bulls' "struggles" is that they are a target every game out. Only two teams, Boston (1958-59 to 1965-66) and Minnesota (1951-52 to 1953-54), have overcome the pressure and the odds of winning three straight. And the pressure is finally beginning to show. 
Some critics may blame Chicago's slow start on injuries to former starting point guard John Paxson and still­starting center Bill Cartwright. Paxson's on-court composure, selfless play and outside shooting touch have been sorely missed. 
The 35-year old Cartwright has shown his knees will no longer enable him to mix it up with the big men for more than 20 minutes per game. He's too slow to guard the league's active centers and his offensive contributions are negligible . 
But Cartwright and Paxson aside, the Bulls bench is hurting. The off-season moves rid the team of three key role players: Levingston, who dished out 

see All Net/ page 19 
~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.;.
Ill

INSIDE SPORTS 
•Irish hockey preview 
see page 26 
IIWomen's tennis preview 
see page 26 
•Men's track heads to Purdue 
see page 26 
~--------------------~ 



Sports 
Friday, January 22, 1993 
Notre Dame staying with MCC and NCAA bids 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Though Dayton and Duquense have both withdrawn from the Midwestern 
staying put. 
Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal said that the Irish are still behind the dwindling conference, and Notre Dame's Olympic sports teams will contjpue to compete as a MCC members 
• MCC reaction/ page 25 
"The concept of the MCC is sound and its success has been outstanding as far as automatic bids (to the NCAA Tournament) for Olympic sports," Rosenthal said. "We are disappointed to see Duquense leave and I never understood why Dayton left." 
"From Notre Dame's standpoint, we are willing to accept whatever develops," he added. 
The MCC has been very good to Notre Dame, as it has provided the Irish with the chance to play for automatic bids in 
Irish look to regain  
winning edge  
Observer Staff Report  
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will look to climb  
above the .500 mark Saturday night as LaSalle visits the  
Joyce Center.  
The Explorers, led by coach Speedy Morris, carry an  
identical 7-7 record as the Irish, but appear to be headed in  
the upwards direction, winning their last three games.  
Detroit-Mercy, Loyola, and St. Joseph's have been toppled by  
LaSalle consecutively, its longest winning streak of the  
season.  
Notre Dame stumbles into the contest after dropping its  
last two games by large margins, 70-55 to Michigan and 70­ 
56 to Butler.  
Butler utilized its quickness and ran Notre Dame out of the  
contest on Monday. Starting no player taller than 6-5, Butler  
took control of the game late, when the Irish couldn't con­ 
tend with their quickness at both ends of the floor. In similar  
fashion, LaSalle couldn't contend with Butler in a game two  
weeks ago, falling 59-64.  
The Explorers are led by guard Kareem Townes who  
averages 20.5 ppg. The 6-3 off-guard accounts for most of  
the offensive attack, averaging 11 three-point attempts per  
contest. As a team, the Explorers attempt nearly 26 treys  
per game. The live-or-die by the three-point shot style  
adopted by Morris' team has found little success this season  
with the Explorers hitting only 29 percent of their shots.  
Complementing Townes is forward Paul Burke who is sec­ 
ond on the team with a 12.5 scoring average, and standing  
behind only Townes in three-point attempts. Blitz Wooten  
provides inside strength to the lineup, hitting only eight  
points a contest, but grabbing an average of seven rebounds.  
The outside shooting of the Explorers will put to the test  
the exterior defense of the Irish. Ryan Hoover and Lamar  
Justice will be looked upon to pressure the guards and avoid  
relinquishing the open shot.  
Notre Dame will again look for a big game from senior  
forward Monty Williams. The Maryland native averages  
around 18 points a game, and leads the team with a 9.5 re­ 
bounding average. The freshman Hoover has shined as of  
late, and will be asked to hit the jumper in order to open the  
inside game for Williams and Malik Russell (8.6 ppg, 5.1  
rpg).  
The Observer/John Rock  
The 7:30 tipoff is the latest home starting time of the sea­ Guard LaMarr Justice, shown here against Boston College, and the  
son for the Irish and will be followed by a trip to Missouri for  rest of the Irish basketball team will hand their hands full against  
a Wednesday night contest with the Tigers.  LaSalle on Saturday at the JACC Arena.  


Fencers hoping for solid performance against U. of Illinois 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Wnter 
After a successful meet last 
weekend, the Notre Dame men's fencing squad heads to 
r=;;-;--;--:----:-----=----------. Champaign, Illinois for a meet 
men's soccer, volleyball, women's basketball and baseball. 
Rosenthal calls these bids a "key attraction" of the conference. There has been speculation about Notre Dame joining the Great Midwest Conference, but Rosenthal said the University is not considering such a move primarily because of the conference's lack of automatic bids. 
Though the MCC's bids are not expected to be lost, the departure of Dayton and Duquense, two of the schools from the eastern section of the conference, could affect the Irish from both a travel and scheduling standpoint. 
When Notre Dame travels east, it tries to save expenses by scheduling more than one contest per road trip. The de­parture of the two schools leaves La Salle, isolated in Philadelphia. 
"We are probably going to try to schedule some non-conference opponents when we go to La Salle," associate athletic director Missy Conboy explained. 
This might help teams' ratings-power index (RPI), but it could pose a problem in that Notre Dame teams might be forced to play tough, non-conference games early in the season. 
"It's hard to plug in non-conference opponents once they get into their own conference sohedules," Conboy added. 
One sport affected by this is volleyball, which relies on the MCC to fill its schedule. 
"The main thing (the departure of the schools) does is put us in a real bind for scheduling," volleyball coach Debbie Brown said. 
However, other sports such as women's basketball and women's soccer which want high RPis could actually benefit from the reduced MCC. 
"It's a different situation for us than it is for some other sports," said women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli, whose team does not have the opportunity to get an automatic bid, and therefore needs a strong schedule to get into the NCAAs. "We'll be able to pick up another top-20 team. That's something that will benefit 
see MCC/ page 1 9 

against the University of Illi­nois, Chicago, and Lawrence 
..~,;4w,, 

on Saturday. 
......-l4 ,~,,-~:...
The Irish are 6-0 after the weekend, but will be up Jeff Piper against some tough 
Championships and is one of 
competition on Saturday. 
the top teams in the Midwest. 
Illinois finished in the top ten in last year's NCAA Senior foilist Jeff Piper, who 
East coast trip up next for Irish 
contributed an 11-0 perfor­mance in last weekend's meet sees the success of the year's first outing as important for two reasons. 
First of all, it will provide some degree of momentum as they face the tough Illinois squad. A solid start to the season may also help the Irish in a longer term way as well. In two weeks, the team makes a trip east that will pit them against such powerhouses as Columbia, Princeton, and New York University. 
"We'll be fencing some of the best teams in the country," notes Piper. 
It is still early to see just how the Irish will fare against on the East coast swing, and the Irish are taking things one team at a time. At this point, another solid performance is all that they are looking for. 







