-~­


Friday, October 8, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 30 THE IN DE PEN DENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAl NT MARY'S 

By JOHN LUCAS  The University divested more than  
Associate News Editor  $20 million in common stocks since the  
South African investment policy was  
In reaction to Nelson Mandela's call  finalized in 1979. according to Scott  
for an end to sanctions. the Board of  Malpass. University Investment Officer.  
Trustees is expected to vote today to lift the University's policy of restricting  Since then. the restrictions have cost the University more than $50 million in  
investment in companies who are active in South Africa. according to Father Oliver Williams. associate provost of the University.  market value. or one to two percent per year lower return on the University's $850 million dollar endowment. "We've never analyzed it (the loss). but it's really irrelevant -the moral  
• see SOUTH AFRICA, page 6  issue is something you believe in," he said. "You don't look back. you just  
After yesterday's unanimous vote by  look forward."  
the board's Committee on Social Values  More important than the lost money.  
and Responsibilities. Williams said that  was the message sent by the community  
he expected the resolution to pass in a  of universities and governments that  
vote before the full board.  apartheid is unacceptable. according to  
Although it resulted in the loss of University money. Notre Dame's South  Williams. "The net effect of hundreds of endow­ 
Africa policy was highly morally suc­cessful. according to Williams. chair­man of the Committee on Social Values  ments having restrictions on investment in South Africa has been psychological." he added.  
and Responsibilities. "That's something for students to  Although changes in the University policy were first proposed in May. the  
understand," he said.  "Sometimes. no  new resolution comes after Nelson  
matter how much money you can make. if it defends human rights. moral issues outweigh economic issues."  Mandela's Sept. 24 speech to the United Nations. Mandela urged the repeal of sanc­ 
The policy. which has been in effect in several different forms since 1979.  tions to stem the tide of unemployment and crime and help South Africa rebuild  
The Observer/Jake Peters Green thumbs Ron Spitdeis, Rhonda Barkley and Mike Spice (shovel) work on planting shrubbery around Father Sarin's statue. Landscaping has taken place around campus, including tree  resolved that the University would take a moral stand against apartheid and di­vest in companies which sold goods or services to the South African military. police. or government to take a moral and economic stand against apartheid. In addition. the policy includes steps to divest from companies that the University believed were not engaged in actively supporting the end of apartheid. and banks which made loans to the South African government or traded South African Krugerrands.  toward democracy. "To strengthen the forces of democra­tic change and to help create the neces­sary conditions for stability and social progress. we believe the time has come when the international community should lift all economic sanctions against South Africa," Mandela told the UN. Although Notre Dame's endowment is the largest of schools who will soon lift see DIVESTMENT I page 6  

ND to invest inS. Mrica 
removal. 
Kennedy calls for environmental reform 
By AMY SANTANGELO 
lege students. News Writer With the rapid growth in 
Environmental Law. Kennedy 
Today's generation tends to currently conducts a law class place undo environmental bur­based on the "college student dens onto future generations. principle." Nine students work­according to noted environ­ing under his direction are mentalist Robert F. Kennedy assigned a business at the Jr.. who spoke last night on beginning of a semester to "Our Environmental Destiny." prosecute for environmental 
His main focus was on the damages. Given the same nation's natural water supplies. rights as actual lawyers and for According to Kennedy. our cur­the duration of the course they rent attitude toward the en­are attorneys. they prepare the vironment needs to "change ca~e from start to finish. try the suddenly and change quickly." case and successfully deter the
4
He said that this is the only businesses from continuing way that the United States will R.F. Kennedy their pollution tactics. be able to compete globally also producing the most Students can also learn from with countries which employ garbage. as well. however. Kennedy's successes in the strict environmental policies. According to Kennedy "the de­courtroom. Some of his cases However. most people feel that cisions we make tend to reflect have had significant environ­
in the universal struggle be­the immediate problems in­mental as well as judicial im­tween the economy versus the stead of the long term ones" pact. environment. there can only be and we need to change this One such case is the Storm 
one winner. thinking. King Case. This case is the 
However. the largest growth Kennedy said that the next leading case for environmental of the economy has been in en­generation is forming their actions. The answer by the vironmental issues. Kennedy principles and convictions New York City Court of Appeals stressed the fact that in order based on environmental issues. established an important legal to "compete economically on They are forming their beliefs precedent for future environ­the world stage we must have from what they learn from their mental suits. The decision of 
strong environmental issues at teachers. peers and television. the three-justice panel was that home." School children today are fac­those who brought the suit did 
The U.S. is losing its edge in ing the environmental crisis have standing to sue on envi­technology and especially in head on and striving for ronmental issues. where previ­environmental technology. ac­changes because they are the ously they did not. Anyone who cording to Kennedy. As a re­future leaders and what they hikes, lives by. walks by, or has sult. the U.S. are forced to im­learn now will help them make any connection to an area of port technology at an elevated more informed decisions later. nature has the right to bring price. which diminishes its He emphasized the fact that suit against those whose competitive edge. "most of the important. critical actions are detrimental to it. 
The only area in which decisions will be made within Kennedy ended the lecture America is currently a leader in the next two decades." describing what could happen if the environment is in the area Therefore today's leaders are 
of landfill technology. America driven by the demands of col-see KENNEDY I page 8 
Schedule of Events  
FRIDAY  
3p.m.  Pep-rally gathering, Morris Inn patio  
4:30p.m.  Marching band rehersal. Main building steps  
6:45p.m.  Band step-off for pep-rally. Band building  
7p.m.  Pep rally. Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center  

SATURDAY 
7:30a.m. Band rehersal. Step off at Loftus Sports Facility 9a.m. NO. SMC and HCC Hospitality Center. JACC 9a.m. Tailgate party and grill, Morris Inn Patio 9:30a.m. AA Meeting 
10:30 a.m. Glee Club Concert. JACC North Dome 11 a.m. Porn Porn Squad/cheerleading performance. 
JACC North Dome 11 a.m. Shenanigans performance. JACC North Dame 11 a.m. Band concert. Administration building steps 
11:30 a.m. Mass. Sacred Heart Crypt 
11 :45 a.m. Band step-off. Adminstration building steps 
12:10 p.m. Pre-game performance. Notre Dame Stadium 
12:35 p.m. Football game kickoff. Notre Dame Stadium 
after game NO SMC and HCC all-class reunion. JACC 45 minutes after game Vigil Mass. Sacred Heart 4p.m. Law School Alumni reception. Law School 
lounge 6:45p.m. Rosary devotions, Grotto 

SUNDAY 
6, 7, 8, 9:30, 11 a.m. Mass. Crypt Parish Church 8, 10, 11:45 a.m. Mass. Sacred Heart Basilica tO a.m. Mass. Saint Joseph Chapel. Holy Cross 
College 7:15p.m. Vespers. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 8, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 




Use the Force McDougal, use the Force 
Kevin Me Dougal. One week he "has the maturity · ·­of a seasoned quarter-'f.0 
back." The next he's "ten-_ tative" or "needs more im­provement." 
Sports departments are killing themselves over ...t how to rate McDougal. Eric Ruethling 
Every week they think Photographer 
they have an idea of his -----'----­ability. he goes out and proves them all wrong. 
While sports writers are struggling to pin down Kevin McDougal and how they feel about him this week, they should mull over one idea -Kevin McDougal. can be best compared to Luke Skywalker (the "Star Wars" character, not the rapper). 
Oh sure, he's not a petulant young farm hand from a desert world, and he definitely doesn't cut up his opponents with glowing blades of light. but the circumstances surrounding him gives him the qualification. 
McDougal entered the world of the college sports spotlight a virtual unknown. He had not started until this year. and was eclipsed by the performance of Rick Mirer in previous years. 
Luke left his home Tatooine, a back-water planet. totally unknown by the Empire. Mc­Dougal had a clouded performance against Northwestern. leading viewers to believe that the heroes were elsewhere to be found in col­lege football. 
How many of us expected Luke to do much of anything when he couldn't get himseH out of a bar fight without Obi-Wan Kenobi's help? 
Suddenly the entire picture changed. This once unknown suddenly had all the lights point­ed at him. Kevin McDougal put on his game face for Michigan, and Notre Dame walked away as victors from a struggle that was sup­posed to leave us destroyed. 
This was very similar to Luke's situation and performance against the Death Star. when the survival of the Rebellion was at hand. McDougal provided a clutch performance to complement a team loaded with talent. 
Suddenly. we were shown that we have a chance of winning the National Championship. Just as suddenly. fate struck back. 
Instead of a city in the clouds with Darth Vader ready to spring his trap, McDougal ran into Purdue in the rain clouds, and the big play suddenly bit back. 
One could almost imagine Kevin McDougal. hanging onto dear life while the dark form of the combined animosity from the writers jeered him from the side, tempting him to cease risk­ing for a championship. However. the statisti­cally injured McDougal escaped Purdue alive. 
Last week we saw McDougal go against Walsh the Hutt. What many writers felt would be a sure showing of his ability to recover from dis­aster. McDougal shined. 
Again, the team deserves credit -Kinder rushed for over 100 yards and Johnson ac­quired 180 yards on two returns, one for a touchdown-but McDougal notched two touch­downs himseH. and a stupendous option play for another TD. which cast off ghosts of Purdue. 
This series is not yet over. We all know that Luke ended up defeating Darth Vader and repelled the Emperor. If McDougal can repel the season-long cynicism of the sports writers. and defeat Florida State, he truly is a Jedi. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Emily Hage Allison Ebel Michael O'Hara Vivian Gembara Sports Etc. Rian Akey Elisabeth Heard Viewpoint Bevin Kovalik Guy Loranger Graphics 
Michael O'Hara Brendan Regan Illustrations Lab Tech Garrett Gray Eric Ruethling 
The Obscrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excrpt during exam and vac:uion poriods. The Observer is a member of the: Associ;uc:d. Press. All reproduction rights an: reserved. 
Kasparov close to title 
LONDON Nigel Short missed a chance for his first win in the Professional Chess Association championship Thursday, and seemed to be in danger of losing when Garry Kasparov offered a draw. Short accepted without hesitation. Kasparov leads 9 1/2 to 4 1/2, having won five with nine draws. They meet again Saturday, with Kasparov need­ing 2 1/2 points to retain his title and 3 to win the match, although 24 games are scheduled in any event. The Times newspaper of London and Teleworld Holdings. based in Rotterdam, Netherlands, are sponsoring the match, which has a $2.55 million purse. 
Stallone movie works for marketin 
BURBANK. Calif. The heavily hyped Sylvester Stallone movie "Demolition Man" hits theaters Friday, but don't look for the promised interactive video game. The $50 million film. pairing Stallone and Wesley Snipes in a futuristic thriller. is being pro-
· · moted in a marketing onslaught that includes Stallone, naked and flexed. in Vanity Fair maga-Stallone zine. In addition to a Taco Bell tie-in. there are toys. trading cards and comics. General Motors Corp. is unveiling a line of con­cept cars in the R-rated movie. One of the more heralded aspects of the promotion, however. has been delayed for more than haH a year: A video game, originally expected in stores this month, won't be out until March. During the production, both Stallone and Snipes took time out from film­ing to stage special scenes for the interactive computer game. The original plan was to intro­duce the game simultaneously with the movie to take advantage of the intense promotion. 
TV series leads to three arrests 
LOS ANGELES "America's Most Wanted" has scored a first: the television series helped lead to the arrest of three fugitives in one day, Fox Broadcasting Co. said Thursday. Wednesday's arrests were in separate cities and cases, according to Fox. which said the series has resulted in 269 arrests in its seven sea­sons. Edward James, sought in a double murder and rape case in Casselberry. Fla., that was pro­filed on the show Tuesday. was arrested in Bakersfield, Calif. John Gilbert Goodloe, wanted in connection with an auto theft ring, was arrest­ed in Bremerton, Wash. He was profiled on the series Sept. 21. Donald Waterhouse. charged with killing his mother and her husband in Dyre County. Tenn., was arrested in Ponca City. Okla., Fox said. 
Tony winner de Mille dead at 88 
NEW YORK Agnes de Mille. the "monumental force" whose breakthrough choreography changed Broadway and ballet. died Thursday at age 88. She died at her Manhattan home, said Dr. Fred Plum of New York Hospital. De Mille won Tony Awards for "Brigadoon" in 1947 and "Kwamina" in 1962. But theatergoers best knew her for "Oklahoma!" which made its Broadway debut in March 1943. 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Oct. 8 Accu-Wealher'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

4,~,~888 ~ ~ . 8 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunn~ Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vta Associated Press GraphicsNst C1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Olympic mountain biking 
The International Olympic Committee recently made competitive mountain biking a medal event, starting with the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta. Growth has marked the sport virtually since its inception in the 1970s as a hobby of cyclists in California and Colorado. 
-.....~----Safety equipment: 
Helmet,
Frlme AP 

knee/shin construction: guards, Large diameter, elbow pads, thin-walled tubing gloves, made of titanium, goggles, etc. aluminum, steel or composites is designed for durability without increased 
Tires: Wide track with knobby tread patterns are used for traction and stability. 

1992: 25 million (est.)25 
MOUNTAIN BIKE FACTS:

Mountain bike riders (In millions) ., The bicycle market-including
20 

bikes and related parts and accessories-is worth about $4 15 billion annually. 
., Mountain bikes sold in the 10 U.S. in 1992:6.7 million (est.). ., Mountain bikes represent 81% 
5 of all bicycle sales. Domestic sales increased 43% during 1991.
0 

1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 
Source: U.S. Cycling Federation; Bicycle Institute of America  APIA. Taro  
Ferre fashions 'structured but feminine'  
MILAN. Italy  

Gianfranco Ferre showed his fashion collection yesterday. with a feminine tone. The structured but feminine collection was built around the mannish three-piece suit, the silk bathrobe and the flowing caftan. Scarves play a big role in Ferre's summer fash­ion, in handkerchief-hemmed long shirts, shawl-like sarong skirts and layered evening gowns. The new suit. in wide pin stripes. has a long. double-breasted jacket with large mother of pearl buttons, and extra-wide cuffed pants. Worn with a large Panama hat and spectator shoes, it is the utmost in 1920s revival. For chic sportswear. cropped pullovers in burnt shades of red. blue or yellow with crisp cotton shirt collars and short­sleeved cuffs. are worn with the wide suit pants. 
Toni Morrison wins Nobel prize for literature 
PRINCETON, N.J. Novelist Toni Morrison. the first black American to win the Nobel Prize in literature, said Thursday that her lyrical works such as "Beloved" and "Jazz" were inspired by "huge silences in literature." "Winning as an American is very special -but winning as a black American is a knockout," Morrison, 62, said at her office at Princeton University. where she has taught since 1989. In awarding the 1993 prize Thursday. the Swedish Academy called Morrison "a literary artist of the first rank" whose work is "unusually finely wrought and cohesive, yet at the same time rich in variation." 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 8. 
50s 40s 
FRONTS: 

..........,..-~~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
City  H  L  Dallas  88  63  Philadelphia  70  45  
Athens Atlanta Boston Chicago Cleveland  79 eo 63 78 70  63 62 43 44 38  Jerusalem London Los Angeles Minneapolis New York  81 63 73 81 66  63 50 59 48 44  Phoenix Reno Rome Toronto Tokyo  84 87 75 55 72  68 38 66 37 59  
Paris  55  52  

-·~~~ 
Friday, October 8, 1993 
Possible Lafayette suspect arrested by S. Bend 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Associate News Editor 
South Bend police think they may have arrested the man suspected in this year's Lafayette Square Townhomes burglaries. according to Captain Jim Clark of the South Bend Police Department. 
Police arrested Marcos Anthony Seward for motor ve­hicle theft and residential entry on Oct. 1 at 10:15 p.m. 
Seward. a 23 year old black male, five feet. nine inches tall and 150 pounds. fits the de­scription of the main suspect in the burglaries, Clark said. 
He added that police have seen a drop in crime in the area since Seward's arrest. 
Police are continuing investi­gation of the Lafayette burglar­ies. They are waiting for fur­ther results from fingerprint tests which may link Seward to the crimes, according to Clark. 
Seward. who has a record of previous charges and arrests. including one for battery, faces a maximum of one-and-a-half years in jail and a fine of $10.000 for each of the class D felonies committed. 


Carry-Out 272-6702 Delivery 2 72-2328 
Since 1977 
6329 University Commons Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
Today's Specials are served with Egg Drop Soup or Soup of 

the Day and Egg Roll -No Substitutes please Lunch 
Monday  Lemond Grass Chicken  $3.95  
Tuesday  Dalat Chicken  $3.95  
Wednesday Stuffed Tofu  $3.95  
Thursday  Dalat Beef  $3.95  
Friday  Governor Shrimp or Dalat Shrimp $4.50  
Saturday  Saigon Beef Tip  $3.95  

Enjoy a Unique experience in Oriental Dining 
Need the Perfect Gifl Idea or Getaway? May we su&g~t, 
Dinner $6.75 $6.75 $6.75 $6.75 $7.25 $7.50 
Vietnam memories 
Visitors to the Moving Wall show respect for those who died. The Wall travels from city to city so those who cannot make the trip to Washington can still pay tribute to the deceased. 


Catholic Character report reviewed 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
In an effort to bring a collec­tive student voice into the de­bate over Notre Dame's Catholic Character. a recently­organized student government committee met yesterday after­noon to present initial findings to the Notre Board of Trustees. 
"The student voice has been relatively nonexistent until this 

The Bei8er Mansion Inn @ fables Gallery 
Get away or get a gift certificate. Stay in one ofour luxury rooms, lunch in our tearoom, enjoy afabulous Saturday night dinner in our State dining room, or select a work ofart from Fables Gallery. Gift certificates available in any dollar amount. Plan now for a birthday, an anniversary, honeymoon, or just to say "I love you." 
LUNCHEON  DINNER  
Tuesday thru Saturday  Saturday evenings only  
11.-oo AM. -2:00 P.M.  6:00P.M. -9:00P.M.  

(219) 256-0365 • 317 Lincoln Way East • Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 

point." explained Catherine Miller. committee chairman. to the board Committee on Human Affairs. "There has been no attempt to gain a con­sensus of student opinion." 
Unlike many other Board of Trustees reports. "Renewing the Mission: A Student Perspective of Notre Dame's Catholic Character" makes no University recommendations, nor does it ask the board for immediate action. Rather. the report sets the stage for a one­year study aimed at uncovering a student response to what it means for Notre Dame to be a Catholic university. 
The report poses initial ques­tions in six areas: theology cur­riculum. faculty. Holy Cross congregation. Campus Ministry. service, and residentiality. 
By the end of the academic year. the committee plans to present a final. comprehensive report that both "examine(s) the channels through which the University communicates its Catholic vision to students. and... convey(s) an overall pic­ture of a student's Catholic ex­perience," wrote Miller. 
So far. the ten-member stu­dent government committee, led by Miller. has spoken to fac­ulty members. department heads and University staff. but have reached no conclusions. 
Yesterday's meeting was de­signed to present the proposal to the board in order to receive input and direction. 

Overall response to the report by the board was positive. 
Questions arose, however. over how the committee planned to execute their study and how to represent all stu­dent opinion -including that of non-Catholics. 
The study will likely include a survey to gauge student opin­ion, according to Miller. In order to ensure the most accu­rate responses. the committee plans to work closely with 'the University's department of in­stitutional research. she said. 
The committee also hopes to generate discussion through forums. group interviews and campus media, Miller added. 
Beyond methodology, though, concerns were raised over the exclusion of non-Catholics in this initial study. 
The report focuses heavily on the responsibility of all mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity' to respond to the Catholic mission of the University. Its introduction quotes University President Father Edward Malloy: "the mission will only be realized if the entire community whole­heartedly and cooperatively embraces this precious legacy." 
However. as mentioned at the 
meeting, the report does not 
take into account the percent­
age of Notre Dame students 
who are not Catholic. 
The final report will be pre­
sented at the final meeting of 
board near the end of this aca­
demic year. 

54 Holes 
.of Indoor 

Mtnaature Golf 
Over 100 Video Games! 
Open 7 Days a ~ek 

Mon.-Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri.-Sat. 10 a.m.-II p.m. Sunday 1 p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Countrr. Shopping Center 
on Mckinley in MtsllaWaka 


254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 


STUDENT UNION llOARD 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 8, 1993 

Journalist reflects on Vatican 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT News Writer 
Reporting for a Catholic journal and working under church hierarchies provided a distinct perspective on the process by which the Roman Catholic Church dictates to its worldwide congregation. according to Father Joseph Gallagher in his speech. "Four Decades as a Catholic Journalist" yesterday. 
As an editorial writer and essayist for various Catholic publications over the years. Gallagher has witnessed the challenges which face the Vatican in presenting its ethi­cal codes to a world-wide congregation of believers, and he has developed a notion of the importance of Catholic journals in fostering related debate. 
Gallagher recalled report­ing for several Catholic news publications, notably the Jesuit magazine. America. and the National Catholic Reporter. He traveled to Rome in 1965 for America magazine to bring news of the proceedings and docu­mentation of the Second Vatican Council. After read­ing preliminary English translations. he was "stunned at how bad the translations were." He set to work soon after his initial exposure to the documents. and the result, months later. was The Documents of Vatican II. 
Gallagher spoke about his project in Rome and its rele­vance to the proceedings there. "Every English speak­ing journalist and English speaking bishop wanted a copy [of the translation)." 
His job as a translator. he said, "was to preserve the ambiguity" of the original Latin text. He recalled often "spending four seconds on a Latin word and there are scholars who are going to spend four years on that same word." 
His project was immediate­ly relevant to the proceedings in Rome, because. in Gallagher's view. the American contingent was not prepared for its debate. His translation. which came forth in segments. helped those American church representa­tives to better understand the subtleties of the forthcoming 
Latin text. 
...for weekends/holidays/ birthdays/weddings or just mom's home cooking. 
Call us for all your domestic travel needs/ 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St , 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Setov predicts nationalism in troubled Russia 
ByTOMMORAN News Writer 
Recent events in Russia sig­nify a massive resurgence of Russian nationalism. said Moscow State University pro­fessor Roman Setov at yester­day's lecture. "Conflict in Contemporary Russia and its International Implications." 
He focused on the miserable conditions in contemporary Russia and the resultant politi­cal movements. 
Setov described the Russian economy as a "catastrophe," with an annual inflation rate of around 2000 percent. wages at $8 a month. and approximately 80 percent of Russians with incomes below the poverty level. 
He said that violence in the former Soviet Union is "out of all possible proportions." or the two million crimes reported last year (out of a population of 150 million) only 41,000 were properly investigated, indicat­ing the lack of effective law en­forcement. Setov added. 
"The country needs three years even to show signs of civ­ilization." 
Setov said that citizens are split between supporting Boris 
HHKf DOWN THf THUNDfR Author 
Murray Sperber 
Friday, Oct. 8th 2 to 3:30 
Will autograph New Book 
''Shake Down the Thunder'' 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Hours: Friday, Oct. 8th 9 to 7 Saturday, Oct. 9th 8 to 6 
Yeltsin or backing the deposed Parliament. 
In such a state of affairs. Setov claimed. the Russian peo­ple have turned, and will con­tinue to turn. to a renewed nationalism which will soon be­come the country's dominant political force. 
Setov described himself as a "non-militant nationalist." He described nationalists as those who strongly believe in their Russian ethnicity. and are in favor of a Russia united for the national interest. 
He added that the citizens waving Soviet red flags outside of Parliament were not com­munists but nationalists; the flags symbolize the strong. unit­ed Russia that was triumphant in World War Two. Although Setov described himself as nei­ther pro-Yeltsin or pro­Parliament. he called Yeltsin a nationalist. 
Setov stated that this nationalism "will likely shape Russian foreign policy in the near future." He predicted that Russians will back away from relations with the West. due to the way the Western nations have treated them. "All threats to Russia since the 18th century always came from the West." 
Russians see themselves as "manipulated by western ex­perts" and "at the edge of being enslaved by the West," accord­ing to Setov. The future Russia will back away from its recently open relations with Western countries. 
The only way to maintain good relations with Russia is to ease up on them. according to Setov. He said that the U.S. has given Russia too much advice and put too much pressure on 
~­il ~ ••, ~O..l'-'l 0 V.r-;,.  ~ -~ A ~  


Italian Cusine with an Irish View 
"THE ITALIAN RISTORANTE" 

PITTSBURGH WEEKEND 
Have fun under the tent! 
DJ • Karaoke • Dancing $10 ITALIAN BUFFET 4pm until ? Friday & Saturday 
Join us at 1412 South Bend Ave. 
Just South of the Dome 
(219) 232-4244 
Meet 
them to become a Western. democratic nation. which will induce a nationalist backlash. 
In addition. he warned. even if Russia becomes a democracy. that does not mean that its na­tional interest will comply with that of the West. Setov claimed that Russia "cannot go back to a communist. totalitarian soci­ety." However he added. Russia "is not going to be a democracy in the near future," either. 

~-~-----------~--­
Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Students challenged to national service CSC-plans Notre Dame 
By KAREN DUBAY 
News Writer 
The critical question of how the United States can best make use of the talents and re­sources of its young people led to The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, ac­cording to Marty Rodgers, leg­islative assistant to Senator Harris Wofford of Pennsylvania. 
The act challenges both indi­vidual students and the institu­tion as a whole. according to Rodgers, a 1988 Notre Dame graduate. 
"The act is an invitation to your imagination to help your community." he said. 
As a legislative assistant to Wofford, Rodgers. who is also a member of the University's Board of Trustees gained a first-hand perspective on the passage of the act. Senator Wofford played a leading role in the development of the national service effort. Rodgers said. 
Through various examples of service organizations created and managed by younger gen­erations, he said that the bur­den of national service is placed on young people. 
"The challenge of national service falls to you." he ·said, "Young people can design and run the best programs for other young people." 
Rodgers focused on the his­tory of service in the nation as well as the future potential of the current project. He cited Roosevelt's Civilian Conservation Corps and the more recent founding of the 
The Department of Music Presents 
the Bush administration, the Commission on National
Johannes (jefjert 
Community Service, and the Organist at 'l(Jeu.z/(jrcfte in '13onn, t;jennany Points of Ught Foundation, he in a said. The key element differentiat­
ing these two programs from the current act was that the
(juest Organ !l<f_cita[ 
PERFORMING THE MUSIC OF 
new national service project is
J.S. BACH, MOZART, 
"first and foremost a public and 
MENDELSSOHN, BEETHOVEN, & 
private partnership," he said. 
AN IMPROVISATION 
The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 wasSunday passed with strong bipartisan support. according to Rodgers.
October 10, 1993 
The legislation was a culmina­8:00p.m. tion of the efforts by young peo­ple, organizations, and politi­
Sacred Heart Basilica cians. 
MACAULAY CULKIN 
tre 
~® 
Fri, Mon, Tues: 5:00,7:15,9:30 Sat, Sun: 12:30,2:45, 5:00,7:15,9:30 

THE PROGRAM 
JAMES CAAN~ 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
HULK Mr.HOUN 
Peace Corps as two examples of comparable projects rooted in humanitarian service. 
Unlike these entities. Rodgers said that the decentralized na­ture of the programs created by this legislation is beneficial. 
It is this shift to community and independently created pro­grams that offers the hope that this program will be particular responsive to the national envi­ronment, he said. 
Instead of forming another federal agency. this act strives to offer communities flexibility. creativity. and a unique sense of "managed competition," ac­cording to Rodgers. Institutions and individuals will be forced to develop feasible and effective programs on their own. 
The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 was designed to build on the two major service efforts created by 
Young people must play a role in the development and implementation of the act, ac­cording to Rodgers. 
Happy I 8th Birthday 
response to Service Act 
By MICHAEL O'HARA 
News Writer 
In a direct response to the passage of the National and Community Service Trust Act. the Center of Social Concerns recently established several committees to investigate the role Notre Dame will play un­der the Act. 
With the new National Service Bill Notre Dame needs to work on expected local plan­ning and projected funding, Father Edward Malloy. University President. said. "We needed to make sure we were well prepared." 
A Steering Committee chaired by Father Don McNeill. Director of the Center for Social Concerns, and Kellie Abbot, Social Concerns Commissioner for Student Government. was set up in addition to several working committees. 
The Committee will maintain contact with national. state and local trends while the Working Committees work on specific compositions of the act, McNeill said. 
While still in its formative stages, many of the members have some goals they would like to see the committees ad­dress. 
"I think National Service is an 
important program to imple­
ment," Rep. Tim Roemer D­
Ind., said. His goals were 
threefold. He said he wants to 
help Notre Dame remain cur­
rent on specific requirements of 
National Service, the National 
Service people to know what 
The Tragedy in Northern Ireland: 
Nanny 
IN 
suTTLH 
The Failure ofAmerican Catholics to Respond 
I :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, 9:30~ 
STALLDN: SNIP:S Monday, October 11th Noon
D:MOLITIDN MAN 
2:15,4:45,7:30, 10:00 
in the Law School Courtroom 
Notre Dame does already and to help devise new areas in which the University can pro­vide service. He added that the relationship between National Service and Notre Dame is a "symbiotic relationship," where both groups involved benefit. 
Steering Committee member Lou Nanni. Director of the Center for the Homeless. also hopes for the development of new programs. "I hope that this legislation will provoke us to take a new initiative, broad­en the ideas of doing service and generate further aware­ness and funds for meeting the needs of the people," Nanni said. "I think we need to follow the spirit and look at forming broad-based coalitions." 
We might attempt to use the Summer Service Project as a model for other national uni­versities, McNeill said. We want to work on coordinating and linking service with aca­demic study and also collaborating with alumni clubs or recent graduates in working with other groups in other cities. 
Notre Dame has a "long tra­
dition of service" and has al­
ways been a leader dating back 
to when the University had a 
pilot Peace Corps program. ac­
cording to McNeill. 
"Notre Dame has an exem­
plary track record in regards to 
service," Roemer said. He 
noted that the National Service 
Program is a "domestic Peace 
Corp." 
"I think that on a state and 
national level we have been 
well represented by individuals 
and by the tradition of service 
we have established here," 
Malloy said. 
While McNeill agreed about 
the strength and leadership of 
Notre Dame in regards to ser­
vice, he wanted to be sure that 
the University maintains an at­
titude "not of competition. but 
collaboration." 
The collaboration for the ser­vice projects would be done with the communities in which the service would take place, according to Maureen Skurski, Project Coordinator for the 
C.S.C. "Our goal is to help the students and community. The community aspect is impor­tant." 
(' MarshaK's 
~~ Crafts & Balloons (.$1.00 off any (Balloon Bouquet 
Variety of MtO>M ~ lfJ)Alf)) Balloons! 
North Village Mall 273,1570 
HOTEL ROOMS FOR ND GAMES 
Hotel Rooms Available for 
usc 

Florida State Boston College 800-7-DOMERS 
Space is very limited 

AANTHONYTRAVEL,INC, 
LaFortune Student Center 

~WJ'l.l 
We hope it's a· good one! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Angela, & Mark 
MALICE 
Alec 
Baldwin 
1!!1 Nicole 
Kidman 

Fri, Mon, Tues: 4:45,7:30, 10:00 Sat, Swu 1:30, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 
~-~ IPGI 
fMRUtll\WQ 
2:30, 5:00,7:15, 9:45 
SLEEPLESS 
C~0?9T~CkS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to your dorm! Mon .. Thurs 11 a.m ... 9 p.m. Fri & Sat 11 a.m ... 10 p.m. 
East Location: 
$6 minimum 

525 N. Eddy St. 
$1 service charge for 
South Bend, IN
orders under $15 
232,1177 

The Law School presents 
Congressman 
Pete King 
on 

page 6 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 8, 1993 
South Africa's hopes, Overseas students safe after quake 
challenges addressed 
By JOHN LUCAS Associate News Editor 
The end of 45 years of white­
dominated rule leaves behind a 
South African government 
struggling to cope with the 
problems created by rampant 
violence, hunger and unem­
ployment according to Father 
Oliver Williams. associate 
provost of the University. 
"The major key is keeping po­
litical stability," he said. "To do 
that. they've got to curtail the 
violence, and and get some 
very important symbols to the 
people that some new things 
are happening out there." 
At the invitation of the 
African National Congress. 
Williams attended Nelson 
Mandela's landmark Sept. 24 
speech to the United Nations. 
"It was history in the making, although Nelson Mandela has some worries." Williams said. "Still. Mandela's very upbeat. He thinks they can create the climate for investment." 
In the wake of recent changes in South Africa Mandela called for an end to most economic sanctions so the country can begin to address problems. 
"The apartheid system has left a swathe of disaster in its trail." Mandela told the UN. "What this means is practically millions of people have no food. no jobs. and no homes." 
With the dramatic changes in South Africa raising the hopes of people around the world. Williams said that one of Mandela's greatest fears was overly high expectations. 
"They've got to scale down their expectations. but it can happen." Williams said. "They can get jobs. they can get skills. and their children. and chil­dren's children are going to have a better Ufe." 
In addition to dealing with 
~ 
economic problems. Mandela 
told the UN that the issue of 
violent crime is key to solving 
the country's problems. 
"The very fabric of society is threatened by a process of dis­integration. characterized by high and increasing rates of violent crime. the growth in the numbers so brutalized that they will kill for a pittance:· Mandela said. 
In addition. Williams orches­trated a landmark meeting of African National Congress Members. American corporate executives and U.S. government officials. The conference. held at Notre Dame in October 1991. raised the issue of how the US could best bring about an end to apartheid. 
While he attended the speech. Williams was asked by the United Nations to be a mon­itor for the April elections. 
The elections will determine the writers of the new South African constitution. The con­stitution will include equality for all South African. white and black. 

You've come a long wayl 
Happy 19th October 10, 1993 
Love Mom & Dad 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's College officials have received word that stu­dents with the College's Semester Around the World Program. based in India. are safe after last week's massive earthquake. 
Cyriac Pullapilly. professor of history at Saint Mary's and co­ordinator of the program. is with the students in India and 
Divestment 
continued from page 1 
restrictions. the board's move will not immediately help South Africa financially. The main effect will be to induce other schools to drop investment bans. according to Williams. 
"I would predict that by the first of the year. every major school wil) have changed their policies. They're all waiting for big schools to go first." 
The University of New York at Stony Brook was the first major university to rescind its policy of divestment. according to Dan Forbush. SUNY Stony informed officials at the College that the quake had little effect on the program's operations. 
The program is headquar­tered in Madras, about 400 miles southeast of the quake's epicenter. Pullapilly said tremors from the quake were felt in Madras. but there was no damage to the city. The 28 Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students in the program suf­fered no physical harm and the 
Brook's Associate vice-presi­dent for University Affairs. 
The Investment Committee of the Stony Brook Foundation. an equivalent to the Board of Trustees. voted the night before Mandela's speech to lift their investment ban. 
"There wasn't a sense of go­ing out on a limb.'' he said. "We knew Mandela was about to call for the change. and we wanted to do the right thing." 
Although there were shanty-program itself experienced no interruption. Pullapilly said. 

The earthquak registered be­tween 6.0 and 6.4 on the Richter scale. Estimates place the quake's death toll as high as 30.000. 
In addition to communicating with Saint Mary's officials. Pullapilly has been in direct contact with the families of each of the students. inlorming them of the group's safety. 
towns erected on campuses around the nation urging the adoption of the policy. there will be no protests for their re­moval. Williams said. During the 1980s. Notre Dame wit­nessed campus rallies and even Father Basil van Renburg's 20­day hunger strike. 
Since the moves to repeal apartheid policies are irrevoca­ble. he agreed that there is lit­tle reason to worry that univer­sities are acting too quickly. 
ILIE 
Nqtre Dame Sweat~s, 
~~20°i OFF''~~
~~(fo 70 • • ~~~ 
®~ ~~ 
~~ '~ 
Ready for Football Weather? Mcl<EECS BOUTIQUE 
.§'ll\J.>ce · North Village Mall, 52565 US 31 N 
"tillf~ll'&  ~~§~ 
(JJ)If!bJ~l!' ~. lrilrrfir~ll.  ~~~~?.'""  c~~\  
~fill!'fil/bJr  &,  Hours: Mon-Sat 9 a.m.-9 p.m.  "'Yc.'Jfo'"-~1{.  
~~  ~~~  
Sunday II a.m.-5 p.m.  


~I 

«{/;;_ 
Paul Gerni (/~.0
~0. 

Nationally Renowned Trick-Shot Artist 

October 11, 1993 
Mini-Clinic & Masterclass  Trick Shot Exhibition  
Games Area in LaFortune  LaFortune Ballroom  
3:00P.M.  8:00P.M.  

FREE ADMISSION 
~ 
' 
~\"l)f.NT\'N10hl0.\1l1

e• 
~Y . the Cobweb . ~ 
' 
/-7/n!Jf(ues ~ Coffeclibles 234-9996(aU) ~ 233-3364(~ 
Gxlendedhours on :Joolbafflp)eehends ('Jliurs. ~c5al.) 
'73ring in ad{or 10% discounl 
The sensual newfilm 
based on the acclaimed 
novel by jean Rhys. 
"SPELLBINDING, HOT-BLOODED ... you?/be swept away!" 
-Dopbnt DoW, WOMAN~ OWN 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Women agree to importance of racial identity 
Black women's 
By MARGARET VIDA News Writer 
Woman must not lose their racial identity in bonding with woman outside their race; pre­tending to be neutral is not the answer. agreed Angela Borelli. Beverly Guy-Sheftall. and Peggy Macintosh in their lecture. "Sisters in Gender: Bridging the Racial Gap." 
Borelli opened the discussion with a personal account of life in America as a Puerto Rican. Growing up in Puerto Rico. Borelli said she was unpre­pared for the racism in America. specifically on the col­lege campus of Indiana University. 
"It takes a while to lose that innocence. I had to come to America to learn that." 
zBorelli. as a professor at Notre Dame, said that she un­derstands the situation of mi­norities on this campus. 
"These students come to Notre Dame and see that they don't fit in with the picture. and then they go back home." she said. 
She offered as advice to mi­norities. "Try to be patient. un­derstanding. persuasive. and don't answer (racial slurs} in anger. Don't do anything that reinforces stereotypes." 
Borelli also spoke of Proposition 63 in California and the inherent contradictions she sees in it. The proposition calls for foreign-speaking individuals to necessarily learn English in order to "have a better chance to get ahead... according to Borelli. 
"The majority of Hispanics who were born here do not fight this. Hispanics are pas­sive. they do not like to make waves and do not like to offend people," said Borelli. 
Guy-Sheftall of Spelman College spoke next from her 
self-described viewpoint of an "African American feminist." 
"It is difficult for woman to bond across racial ethical boundaries. The historical ex­perience from slavery created inequalities of power despite common gender. Anglo and African American woman were treated different sexually," said Guy-Sheftall. 
"If we didn't pretend that we were all the same. we'd find a common ground. Whites need to realize that women of color are profoundly different from each other. It is the same human misery that we can all be outraged about," concluded Guy-Sheftall. 
Macintosh of Wellesley College spoke from an opposite point of view. She spoke about the need for white women not to ignore their heritage either. 
"We are the descendants of slave owners. This fact affects views on ownership. Slavery passed on unspoken ownership of power. Whites think that they own the jobs and (when a minority gets a job) they are taking jobs from whites," said Macintosh. 
Macintosh called for whites to 
evaluate their lifestyles and determine how many things they have that they have not earned. 
"I always thought I deserved what I had. Many elements I had not earned. I counted 46 ways daily I experience white skin unearned privilege. It wasn't until I shopped with blacks that I got to know store detectives." said Macintosh. 
"My kids will be given mate­rial that will testify to the exis­tence of my race. Identical pleas to mine will be consid­ered militant if made by black woman. I can achieve and do well without being considered a credit to my race." Macintosh said. 
"I can't be blamed. I was born into it. But though I can't be blamed for it. how can I share my unearned power? Not to tell (African-Americans) 'I know how you feel,' instead." 'How do you feel?'" said Macintosh. 
Guy-Sheftall proposed, "Woman's studies have been revitalized in recent decades. We still have a long way to go. (The movement) has been in­sensitive to poor women. We need to know much more about global womanhood." 
history celebrated 


By BERNADETTE PAMPUCH News Writer 


Suzanne s![{ora{ 
See our ~eautiju( ~ses -Daily Delivery 
-Wire Service -Student Discount 
Located 
Comer of Ironwood & Edison 288--7551 
Happy 21st! 
DOMER HEIDI! 
Love, Your Family! 

~l fi~ 
tfJ Clair¥se R~staur•nt 
Open 7 Days A Week 
Sun ..Thurs-11:30 a~rn...9:30 p.m. 
Party in a 
Fri & Sat-11:30 a.m...I0:30 p.m. Mon..Sat..Lunch Special .. 11:30 a.rn ...3 p.m.
Muticultural Way!! 


<"'£unday Buffet-11:30 a.m ...J p.m. \! ?"'•CarryOut Service 
Friday 
. ['~ • Largest Dine~In Chinese "' . Restaurant In Town
Haggar Parlor 
~ ' ~·2Separate Banquet Roorru
7:00p.m. 
.~r \ 

Douglas 
Don't Miss this Event 
N

..,lt...... i(~' El] Great Food, Music & 
520

255,6868~4~--~-~-~ 

ticipates."
Entertainment 
Hine spoke at the request of the Office of Multicultural 
313 W. McKinley Ave. 
Mishawaka 
Affairs. 
The role of Black women in history is a topic just now getting the recognition it deserves. according to D.~; ... Darlene Clark Hine, who spoke yesterday on "Black Women in America: An Historical Encyclopedia" as part of Saint Mary's Multicultural Week. 
"Eleven pounds, two vol­umes. fifteen hundred pages on Black women in history. from 1619 all the way up to Carol Mosely-Brann winning the Senate seat in Illinois." said Hine of her newest pub­lication. "Race and Struggle in Women's History." 
Over 200 entries refer to subjects such as slavery. reli­gion. and education. 
"The encyclopedia shatters Black women's self-imposed invisibility," said Hine. "For most of our history. Black women have labored within the community. within the family groups. (and have feared) that [If) they stepped out front. the larger society would assault them." 
Hine said, "Once women control their past. they will control their future." She ex­pressed satisfaction at being able to have "the opportunity to attach gender to (the idea of ) multiculturalism." 
"We were guided by the de­sire to represent the entire spectrum of Black women in history," said Hine. "For over two years. my work con­sisted of searching for the average. exemJ>lary Black woman and (those) who would write about them." 
The encyclopedia includes not only essays on notable figures like Harriet Tubman and Sojourner Truth. but more anonymous African­American women who rose to prominence in their own communities. 
"Gradually. I found a vision of the encyclopedia. I knew that it had to be inclusive. We had to pay attention (to many different topics)." said Hine. 
Favorably reviewed by ev­
eryone from Coretta Scott 
King to Maya Angelou. both 
the Cushwa-Leighton library 
at Saint Mary's and the 
Hesburgh Library at Notre 
Dame will carry the encyclo­
pedia. 
The Washington Post re­
viewed the book as "...an 
essential book. one that will 
be of enduring value to stu­
dents. researchers. and any­
one interested in a fuller. 
richer understanding of 
American history." 
Hine expressed enthusiasm 
at the thought of the history 
of Black women being 
focused on more intently in 
the future. 
"Twenty years ago, few 
people wrote about the role 
of Black women." she said. 
The increased attention paid 
to it "is the revolution in 
which the encyclopedia par­
.....----------------------~-------~~-~-------------~--------~---­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 8, 1993 
Clinton outlines Somalia buildup and withdrawal 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton ordered 5,300 more troops, heavy ar­mor and naval firepower to Somalia on Thursday to "finish the work we set out to do." But. facing growing demands for 
immediate  withdrawal.  he  
pledged  to  pull  out  all  
Americans by March 31.  

"We started this mission for the right reasons and we are going to finish it in the right way," Clinton said in a nation­ally televised address from the Oval Office. "If we stay a short while longer and do the right thing, we have a reasonable chance of cooling the embers." 
Under intense pressure from Congress and the watchful eye of an anxious public, Clinton said the U.S. force had to be expanded to protect troops al­ready there and to make sure humanitarian missions contin­ued. 
The president was looking to quell a chorus of protest in Congress. and won an imme­diate pledge of bipartisan sup­port from Senate Republican leader Bob Dole. 
"I would urge my colleagues that this is not a time to pick a partisan fight over Somalia," Dole said. "On this particular issue I believe the president has earned the day and deserves our support and I believe he will have broad support across the aisles. 
Sen. Robert Byrd. D-W.Va.. one of the most outspoken crit­ics of Clinton's policy. praised the president's decision to set a withdrawal deadline but said it could be done sooner. He also said he was disturbed by the deployment of "such a large number of additional American forces." 
The new deployment includes 1,700 soldiers being sent di­rectly to Somalia and 3,600 Marines stationed on ships off­shore as a quick response force if needed. There will be 104 more tanks and other armored vehicles. and Defense Secretary Les Aspin said air strikes could be launched from the carrier USS Abraham Lincoln. 
The president painted a dire picture of the consequences of an immediate withdrawal: 
"Within months, Somali chil­dren again would be dying in the streets. Our own credibility with friends and allies would be severely damaged. Our leader­ship in world affairs would be undermined.... And all around the world, aggressors. thugs and terrorists will con­clude that the best way to get us to change our policies is to kill our people. It would be open season on Americans." 
Russians killed near Georgian front line 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
TBILISI. Georgia 

The bodies of five Russian soldiers were found in a burnt­out armored personnel carrier Thursday near the front line of the civil war in western Georgia. Two other Russian sol­diers were reported missing. 
The report came the same day Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze arranged to fly to Moscow for talks with other Caucasus Mountain leaders and with Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
ITAR-Tass news agency quot­ed unidentified Russian military officials as saying they suspect­ed the soldiers· vehicle was captured by rebels backing ousted president Zviad Gamsakhurdia. Details were sketchy. 
Shevardnadze's government is fighting two insurgencies in the former Soviet republic: one led by Gamsakhurdia's sup­porters, the other by sepa­ratists in north western Abkhazia province. 
Georgian leaders accuse "reactionary circles in Russia" of helping the Abkhazians. . Fearing reprisals against Georgia's Russian community and the Russian military. Shevardnadze pleaded for tol­erance in a radio address Monday. 
"No anti-Russian hysteria is 

CORRECTION 

A caption on page three of yesterday's Observer incor· rectly identified the speaker in the photo. The indiVidual pic­tured was actually Larry Cunningham, chair of the Notre Dame theology depart· ment. 

to take root in Georgia," he said. 
A Russian military doctor was killed and two Russian soldiers were wounded last week in Tbilisi, the capital. when gun­men fired on a Russian car. In a crackdown on suspected rebel sympathizers Wednesday. a correspondent for the Russian daily Komsomolskaya Pravda was arrested on spying charges and given 48 hours to leave the country. 
Shevardnadze says Yeltsin was not involved in any Russian aid to insurgents. He accuses the Russian president's political foes of trying to recreate the "the old Empire." 
Shevardnadze. in need of mil­itary and economic aid but anx­ious to maintain Georgia's in­dependence, has cautiously been trying to boost ties with Yeltsin's government. 
Russia has condemned offen­sives by Gamsakhurdia's ultra­nationalist, anti-Russian sup­porters and by Abkhazian sep­aratists in Georgia. It has of­fered to send peacekeepers. but otherwise has declined to get involved. 
About 19.000 Russian troops are stationed in Georgia until December 1995 under postings made long ago. 
Col. Gennady Dolgachev. spokesman for the Russian force. said the group of seven soldiers was reported missing after they left Kutaisi for the Black Sea port of Batumi on Tuesday. 
The bodies were found near Samtredia, a key rail junction where fighting between gov­ernment troops and Gamsakhurdia supporters raged for a fifth day. 

Potential Home Buyers 
Rough sawn cedar exterior, 2750 sq. ft., one level, 4-year-old home on the St. Joseph River directly across from the ninth tee of Orchard Hills Country Club. 
Prime location with quality living, boating, canoeing, kayaking and private tennis court. 
$275,000 by Owner 616-695-5958 3000 White Oaks Lane Buchanan, Michigan 
Open house every weekend 2pm-Spm. 
Kennedy 
continued from page I 
we continue to destroy what is left of our environment. 
"Six billion dollars of fishing industry revenue on Long Island Sound has been lost due to the extinction of various species of fish." He added. "Twenty-five percent of our pharmaceutical drugs are derived from rain forest plants. We are destroying our ability to produce new <&ugs," and there­fore we cannot prevent the growth of diseases. 
One of the rain forest plants 
that is now extinct. the Rosy 
Periwinkle, is responsible for 
aiding in the remission of child­
hood leukemia. "Protecting 
nature is not for its own merit. 
but instead what it does for us," 
he said. Kennedy concluded by 
saying that the best way to pur­
sue environmental issues is by 
joining an environmental group 
to promote protection legisla­·lion through lobbying efforts. 
THE 


DOMER DASH 
WHAT: A two-person (1 male & 1 female) team obstacle course. WHERE: At the JACC, Gym 2. WHEN: October 13, Wednesday, 7:30pm. WHO: Grab a partner and 'DO THE DASH'. HOW: Sign up at the RecSports Office. Deadline Oct. 12. 
Participate and compete for prizes worth over $100 · 
**A National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week Event** 
*** Sponsored by: Office of Recreational Sports & Office of Alcohol and Drug Education *** 

Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover atfordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includos team sports, free aerobics dasses, and mud1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bodrooms from $345 
Pool &Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilhies • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free A~uobics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how affordable apartment living can be. 

~7~-lSSU 
;. •' 

----~ ~~--~ -~------------~--~~---­
BUSINESS 
Friday, October 8, 1993 Page 9 
Building savings and cutting taxes 
ByJOHN CUNNIFF Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Would you be interested in a plan that might lower your taxes. promote job formation. improve the economy and help reduce the federal budget deficit? 
And all that's required is that you save money? 
Such a gossamer-like thought might seem to have drifted in on a zephyr from dreamland but. no, it is being seriously dis­cussed and presented in Washington as an idea whose time has come. 
And about time. say its advo­cates. who observe that in the 19th century the classical econ­omist John Stuart Mill ad­vocated the exemption of sav­ings as part of a just income tax system. 
Something of the sort is now advocated by Senators Sam Nunn. D-Ga.. and Peter Dominici. R-NM. and endorsed by Murray Weidenbaum. who served as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Reagan administration. 
The proposal is remarkably simple and straightforward. says Weidenbaum. now direc­tor of the Center for the Study of American Business at Washington University. St Louis. No more complex. he says. than this: 
"Continue reporting your in­come. But. on a new schedule. list all of your saving during the year. Deduct saving from in­come and pay tax only on the remainder." 
That would certainly lower your taxes. but how would it accomplish all the other things claimed for it? Just as easy. says Weidenbaum. 
"Exempting saving from the 
income tax encourages thrift 
and enterprise. which means a 
stronger economy." he says. 
And how would it do this? 
"The money to invest in a more productive and competi­tive economy. with a higher rate of job formation. comes fundamentally from our sav­ing." he explains. And. of course. a bigger economy means more tax revenues too. 
The idea of saving for a big­ger economy seems to make sense; in fact. it is a basic un­derpinning of much economic thinking. Money that is saved doesn't sit there idly. but is in­vested in enterprises that pro­vide jobs and dividends. 
Leaders: NAFTA or health plan to hurt economy 
By DAVE SKIDMORE golf courses and meet behind Associated Press closed doors with senior gov­ernment officials. WILLIAMSBURG. Va. This time. they're expected to 
Economic recovery could be hear a pitch for NAFT A from jeopardized by rejection of the U.S. Trade Representative North American Free Trade Mickey Kantor. Deputy Agreement or adoption of a fi­Treasury Secretary Roger nancially burdensome health­Altman. White House economic care plan. heads of the nation's adviser Laura Tyson and for­largest corporations warned mer president Jimmy Carter Thursday. also are attending. 
Leaders among the 111 active In advance of the session. the and retired chief executives business leaders praised the attending a meeting of the elite Democratic administration for Business Council are looking for pushing NAFTA. which was a 3.1 percent growth rate dur­negotiated by the Republican ing the second half of this year Bush administration. and in 1994. Robert Allen. chairman of 
That's more than double the AT&T. warned that rejection of first half's lackluster 1.3 per­the agreement could jeopardize cent growth rate in the gross chances of obtaining expanded domestic product. the sum of all markets for U.S. goods in the goods and services produced in rest of Latin America and of lib­the United States. eralizing trade restrictions 
However. the executives worldwide. voiced strong concern about "We absolutely have to pass economic impact of President it," he said. Clinton's health care reform. Although moderately opti­They praised Clinton for tack­mistic. the corporate econo­ling the issue and endorsing the mists advising the business principles of universal coverage executives listed "higher taxes and cost reduction. But they (and) uncertainty about health said Clinton's plan called for care costs" as risks to their too much government control. forecast. 
"To think you're going to save They also saw a chance that $200 billion by having a big growth in one of the strongest bureaucracy weed it out is areas of the economy -busi­absolutely foolhardy." said ness spending on new equip­AP File Photo 
John Welch Jr.. chairman of ment -could slow a bit. from a Business leaders warn that President Clinton's health care proposal or General Electric Co. rate of 15 percent over the past the rejection of the NAFTA treaty could endanger economic recovery .. "There's a real genuine risk year to about 10 percent in the 
rapid pace of the past year is nomic weakness in Japan and of worsening health care and second half and in 1994. 
anticipated" they wrote. more recently China is re­
making it more expensive," "Orders and shipments for 
Export markets for American straining overall export growth said John Snow. chairman of high -tech equipment including goods were described as mixed. to Asia ... 
CSX Corp. desktop and laptop computers The economists "reported In the United States, low in-The business leaders. all chief and mobile communications that their firms had seen a bot-terest rates should propelexecutives of Fortune 500 cor­equipment continue to grow toming out of the recession in strong gains in housing and porations. gather twice a year rapidly. although some gradual Europe. but no clear signs of auto sales. 
to hobnob on tennis courts and slowing from the unusually recovery as yet" and that "eco-
Municipal bonds not necessary for fund raising 
By JOHN DOYLE vestigating whether investment lysts. underwriters. state audi­standard-setting group that is Associated Press banks made illegal payments to tors and comptrollers said it overseen by the SEC. has pro­a firm linked to a former gu­was too soon for Congress to posed barring all business-mo­
WASHINGTON bernatorial aide to gain a share act. tivated political contributions. 
Local government officials 
of New Jersey's bond business. "Radical regulatory reform of The rule-making board did notwho raise money through mu­And questions about a the municipal market is not ban all political contributions. 
nicipal bonds told a House 
$425.000 political contribution called for ... said Jeffrey Green. which might violate thepanel Thursday that federal re­made by Fleet Financial Group general counsel of the Port Constitution. but dealers mustforms aren't necessary for the to New York City Comptroller Authority of New York and New stand ready to prove their in­market in which political con­
Uz Holtzman last year helped Jersey. tentions.
tributions have raised in­
derail her re-election bid lastvestors' hackles and lawmak­month when it was learned that Speaking on behalf of the However. MSRB rules onlyers· concerns. 
her office recommended that Government Finance· Officers apply to muni dealers. not theThe $1.2 trillion municipal Fleet underwrite city bonds. Association. Green and several local governments that issuesecurities market raises money The House Energy and other witnesses said more reg­them. said Gerald McBride. anfor state and local public works Commerce Committee's finance ulation could impose additional official of the Public Securitiesprojects like schools. water sys­subcommittee has been looking costs for agencies trying to Association. a dealers and un­tems and bridges. 
into the municipal market's raise money. They urged derwriters trade group.
Traditionally. the municipal 
integrity and Rep. Edward Congress to let the states or the
market is considered one of the Markey. D-Mass .. the panel's industry's rule-making body "Most dealers freely admitsafest-second only to the U.S. 
chairman. said there was " a come up with a solution. or that they make contributions to government securities market very strong possibility" he push regulators like the state and local officials princi­
-but concerns are rising 
would introduce legislation to Securities and Exchange pally because their competition about political contributions be­give investors more information Commission to enforce existing does the same," a practice
ing made to influence the 
about the financial health of laws more aggressively. known as "pay to play." saidawarding of bond underwriting municipal bond issuers. McBride. an executive vicebusiness. 
But witnesses representing The Municipal Securities president at PrudentialFederal prosecutors are in-
municipal bond lawyers. ana-Rulemaking Board. an industry Securities Inc. 

BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Daily market roundup 
~*f·=Jn$ I~ 
7/1193 8/1/93 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 
......i;ii~ .J;10RJ:. WOR'l'H, Te)(a.S 
American Airlines on took about 20 percent off its fares to much of Europe this Win­ter and tll:~.~p,!s. were !Jnlnediately· matched by competitors. American said it made the discounts because of poor demand for travel across the Atlantic. "Our advance bookings were running a little behind. and we felt that a . • · stimulation would probably correct that," American spokesman Marty 
Heires satd. 
----~--------­

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, October 8, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
. 1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardmm Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ................ Mercdith McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accutatdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Iruidc Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to aU readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNicwpoint  63I-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  63I-53I3  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
sif'~ Photo  63I-4543 63I-5323  Systems/OTS Office Manager  63I-8839 631-7471  
EDITORIAL  


Reinvest cautiously in South Africa 
The shantytowns that once lined the quad have been dismantled. The Roman Catholic priest is no longer fasting. Nelson Mandela has spoken, and universities across the country appear on the verge of reinvesting in companies with dealings in South Africa. 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees will take up the is­sue once again today, and is expected to pass a reso­lution lifting restrictions on Umversity investment in corporations and banks doing business in the country. 
The resolution, while large1y symbolic, would be an important step, but one tbat should be taken with caution. While reinvestment is certainly the right de­cision now, the board would be wise to continue to watch developments and revisit the issue in the months to come. 
A heated issue in the past decade, its salience has diminished durin~ the slow dismantling of apartheid and the organizatiOn of elections this spring. 
Indeed, the arguments for reinvestment are strong: 
• 
President Bush lifted the ban on U.S. investments in South Africa in 1991, and the same leaders who demanded divestment during the 1980s are now courting institutions to reconsider their restrictions. 

• 
In an appeal before the U.N. on Sept. 24, Mandela called for the world to reinvest in his country. 

• 
With unemployment reaching 50 percent, it is logi­cal and necessary that U.S. business return. Creating jobs will take the edge off racial tensions and smooth the path to the spring election. 

• 
The country's stabilization means the symbolism of the restrictions is lost. No longer must Notre Dame lose market value in the name of human rights. 


Those opposed to reinvestment, on the other hand, argue that the situation in South Africa is not yet stable enough to warrant a policy change. 
The point is valid. Amid the positive developments in post-apartheid South Africa, caution is essential. As demonstrated in country after country, peace and democracy are fragile at best. Problems are often deep-seated, and take a long time to resolve. 
The chaos in the Soviet Union is a prime example. A fleeting effort at democracy and economic reform has collapsed into bloodshed and led to President Boris Yeltsm's apparent dictatorship, at least temporarily. 
If the board decides to ease restrictions, it should continue to monitor developments in South Africa·and reevaluate its investment!olicy each time it meets. If elections fail or aparthei once again rears its head, the University would want to reconsider its decision. 
DOONESBURY 
GARY CARUSO CAPITAL COMMENTS 
Worthwhile comments, not attacks 
to grind their axes. Pro-life 
The first few weeks of the Democrats concede their mi­I am reminded of how so school year are always filled nority status within their party. many "righteous" people in with great openness and friend­but then stereotype all church -affiliated organizations, liness. Freshmen enter the Republicans as hypocrites when in government, or in business University not knowing many they support the death penalty. are quick to condemn those others, thus readily extending a Democrats are then generally with whom they disagree. hand in friendship to both portrayed as compassionate upperclassmen as well as fel­and caring for the individual They conveniently label their low freshmen. It is the time of being, even the fetus. opposition so as to better year I personally like best, describe their own beliefs. They mainly for social reasons. But Well I have some news here. condemn the pro-choice after everyone settles into their folks. 1 know plenty of my fel­"killers," the "immoral" gays. year-long ruts. the atmosphere low Democrats who are red­the "feminist radicals," or any­turns quite impersonal. necked jerks, not to mention a one else who believes different­
good share of Republicans. But ly. They lower themselves by 
After just one month into the I don't call them idiots in the attacking on a more personal school year, The Observer con­press. I let them live in hopes level. which unfortunately is tained scathing letters to the that they will let me live. 1 sup­extremely effective. editor and commentaries from port my positions with one eye people who seem to think that on the possibility that others I expect to read many excit­they are extremely intelligent just might enlighten me with ing, thoughtful. and challenging or that they support the only their perspectives. give-and-take pieces in The true position on any given Observer this school year. issue. Some of these published Let's face it. Nobody will ever Maybe all of us will take that items were so personal and entirely agree with anyone else. extra moment to edit personal dogmatic, I imagined that With that in mind, maybe some remarks out of our text. everyone on campus had just of us in the so-called "ND been released from a two-year. Family" can tone it down a step I suggest that we think .of the frustrating, wall-climbing expe­or two when we argue our first day we stepped on the rience in a Biosphere. Where points of view. To be perfectly Notre Dame campus. glad has our civility gone in our free honest, sometimes I cannot handing our way to new friend­exchange of ideas? even understand various writ­ships that are lasting a lifetime. 
ings published by professors in Think of the openness, respect. 
Open the Viewpoint Section The Observer. I certainly would and interest we had for one on any given day and you will not trivialize their intellect in another and add that to our see a veritable smorgasbord of my column, regardless of my written submissions to The topics. As former President feelings. Observer. George Bush would say, "That's good." However, the tones of My point goes beyond merely We might all be surprised of many-no. most thus far­being courteous. It smacks of the standards we uphold while have been dogmatic, vicious. the "We Are ND" syndrome sharing our worth while com­and personal. To that Bush where "We·· know all and can ments. would also say, "That's bad!" do no wrong. When Notre 
Dame people consider just how 
Beneath questions of whether fortunate they are to be among Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame gays are inherently good in aU the nation's educated elite, they '73. works in Washington. D.C. aspects of their lives other than should act accordingly. They as a desktop publishing spe­their sexual preferences comes should be held to a higher stan­cialist for the U.S. House of tones of personal hatred and dard and lead by example Representatives. His column outright condemnation. Critics tough. good, generous, intellec­appears every other Friday. of the "Tarnished Dome" book tual examples without personal get slammed for using the book slurs. 
MR. 8lf775, I'D UK& 70 f3C. 5UR&, BUTRE3MEMBI5R, 50N, A GI.AMOOIE MARU30R1J 7HAT'S NC!TAU.-5MOK&R5! MAN IN 7Ht 5TYL£ OF IWECWTAU-Y, YOU'U..-PROB­
" For why should my free­
7H& COW80f, PROU!J ABl-Y 1.-/V£ 70 E3l3 f(XJ! ANI? PHY!3/CAUY 
dom be judged by
\
FIT... 
another's conscience?" 
-Paul, missionary and saint (I Corinthians 10:29) 
-
I 
~~ ~ --~ 
I 
Friday, October 8, 1993 page 11 
I VIEWPOINT 
PETE PETERSON BEYOND FREEDOM ROCK 
Return to the golden days, when only the stadium sold-out 
.. 
When I was a student. I swore I'd never be a grumpy old alum. 
Grumpy old alums used to come to campus on football Saturdays to scream at the foot­ball team and then they'd write letters to various campus publi­cations about how far short the rest of us fell, too. 
They objected to anti-Navy banners that said "Shoot the Seamen" and chants of "Screw Purdue". They certainly weren't thrilled the time stu­dents held up cards spelling out "H-E-L-L-0-A-B-C" and then. when the cameras were on them, flipped them over to re­veal"S-T-0-P-the-W-A-R". 
And they were most dis­pleased when African­American students carried signs around the field before the Georgia Tech game, ex­pressing support of protests by black athletes at the Mexico City Olympics. 
Of course. they didn't like a lot of what we did away from the gridiron. either. They want­ed demonstrators thrown out of school and preferably. prose­cuted as well. They couldn't believe there couldn't be some control of scruffy hair and slovenly attire. They didn't want to see co-education. Blah blah blah blah. But we mostly say them during football sea­son. 
I realized not all Notre Dame 
alums turned into loud­
mouthed goofballs. but l still 
had this inner fear that I would 
be sitting around in bad clothes 
and a bad haircut someday. 
shooting my mouth off about 
how the college ought to be 
run. 
All of which makes it tough to be nearly a quarter-century out from under the Dome and won­dering what the hell is going on back there. I am beginning to feel like Dana Carvey's grumpy oldman: 
''I'm a grumpy old alum and I just don't care! Things were better in my day! We didn't need two leprechauns. We barely had one leprechaun. He had to paste a beard on every Saturday. He was a beardless leprechaun! But we liked him! 
"What do you need two lep­rechauns for, anyway? What the hell are they teaching you kids in that fancy business school? Ever hear about supply and demand? Supply and demand! If you got a lot of peo­ple want to see the leprechaun, charge 'em more money! Don't pump out more leprechauns! 
"And what's all this bushwa about how beating Michigan was a rebuttal to that tarnished dome hoopdedoo? Don't you lit­tle snotnoses study logic? If you want to show you aren't cheat­ing. go out and get the beJesus beat out of you!" 
Wait. Got to get a grip. 
But things were different then, and. while the Sixties brought antiwar demonstra­tions and drugs and race con­sciousness and sexual tensions. it was still Notre Dame. A cam­pus humor magazine, The Leprechaun. wisecracked that the Golden Dome was not ac­tually a dome at all. but a gild­ed football. proportional to its place in the community. 
Beyond football, basketball was the only sport of stature at the University. and. although my class brought in some top talent, basketball didn't amount to much yet. And. of course, while there were no Notre Dame women's sports. the col­lege was far poorer for the fact that there were no Notre Dame women. 
Those five home football weekends assumed desperate significance, in a world where only second-semester seniors could have cars. Males out­numbered females by 7 to 1 and the major events beyond football season were Mardi Gras weekend and springtime at the Dunes. 
And yet football then was not football now. Teams could only be on national television a cou­ple of times a year. meaning most games weren't disrupted by TV-timeouts. Freshmen played only freshman ball, a shorter season that allowed them to get into the rhythm of academics. Final exams came more than two weeks after the New Year's bowl games. but Notre Dame's season always ended in mid-December any­way: The Irish refused bowl bids between the 1925 Rose Bowl and the 1970 Cotton Bowl. saying post-season play detracted from academics. 
Scheduling was different. too: Rather than seek out pollster­pleasing juggernauts. Notre Dame played a quasi-confer­ence of the three major service academies. Northwestern. Purdue, Michigan State and USC, then added whoever was available and interested: teams like Georgia Tech. Cal. and Pitt. 

Some games were closer than others. but so what? I first saw the Irish play in a 64-to-0 blow­out of Duke, my senior in high school. I heard the historic 10­
10) Michigan State game on the radio. but I was at the Duke game on a crisp, sunny autumn day and my sister had me fixed up with a terrific date after­wards. I liked the Duke game more. 
Maybe that's why I don't feel embarrassed about being a grumpy old alum. I don't un­derstand why all the games have to be so damned impor­tant. 
Division III football is fun: It features shoestring tackles. 40­yard passes for touchdowns and last-gasp heroics. The sky is just as blue and crisp, and you can still have a terrific date that evening. But it isn't the same. because the entire cam­pus doesn't screech to a halt. and you don't have 70,000 peo­ple cheering at once. 
But you don't have to choose between megaversity corporate football and small college cow pastures. Notre Dame once played a reasonably balanced schedule. consistently finished in the Top 20 and ran a one­leprechaun. student-oriented football program where the only thing being sold out was the stadium. 
And we liked it. 
Pete Peterson '71 is reader­ship services manager with the PressRepublican a daily news­paper in Plattsburgh. New York. 
FRANK PIMENTEL HEARTS AND MINDS 
Chuck Colson builds the City of God in the prisons of man 
America's prisons represent the crossroads between unen­lightened thinking of politicians and a national moral vacuum. One man. however. has spent the last 18 years trying to change the paradigm. He is Charles W. "Chuck" Colson. and earlier this year he received the $1 million Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion. an inter­national award recognizing one who has advanced the world's understanding of God. As a recipient. Colson follows in the footsteps of Mother Teresa, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and Billy Graham. 
Chuck Colson's public life be­gan in politics. As a senior ad­viser to President Nixon. Colson was labelled "Nixon's hatchet man" by the Wall Street Journal. Nixon himself once said, "Colson would do any­thing. He's so tough he would walk over his own grandmoth­er." But then things changed. 
In early 1973 after helping guide Nixon to his 49-state landslide reelection. Colson ironically "had never felt so empty." Shortly thereafter. guided by a friend. Colson ac­cepted Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior of his life. an idea which had been foreign to him as a nominal Episcopal. 
This Pauline figure, by then implicated in Watergate. next confounded his lawyer by in­sisting on pleading guilty to a charge of obstructing justice, although he had not been a central figure in the debacle. As a result, Colson spent seven months in federal prison. an experience that has informed his life ever since. 
Colson says, "Out of tragedy and adversity come great bless­ings. Lying on the rotten floor of a cell. you know it's not pros­perity or pleasure that's impor­tant. but the maturing of the soul. When a prisoner repents and turns away, he is so filled with gratitude for what God has done that he wants to tell everybody. They really un­derstand what grace means. better than people in the church." 
But our prison system fails miserably. Colson explains. "The world's most brilliant be­havioral scientist could not have designed a more destruc­tive system than to lock a per­son in a cell, give him or her nothing to do for years on end and then shove them back on society." In fact. well-financed special interest groups have hindered both state and federal legislative proposals which would put inmates back to work. Right now less than ten percent of the nation's 856,000 inmates are so employed. 
Along with meaningful work. 
Colson advocates alternative 
punishment based on commu­
nity service and restitution. He 
points out that nearly half of 
those incarcerated are non-
dangerous. nonviolent crimi­nals. Thus. alternative pun­ishment for these people would· leave scarce prison space avail­able for the truly dangerous who must be quarantined. As for the death penalty. while he believes it to be Biblically justi­fied, he thinks that the penal system is too unjust to apply it righteously and is therefore against it. 
To those who maintain that crime is inextricably inter­twined with economic depriva­tion, Colson points to crime fig­ures during the Great Depression. They declined. "Crime is caused by moral fail­ures," he says. "So there's got to be moral solutions. And the only way is for Christians to go in and do it." 
And so he has. After Colson left prison. he and former Iowa Senator Harold Hughes, a Democrat who had been a viru­lent anti-Nixon crusader but by then was a "brother in Christ" to Colson. conducted a training session for 12 furloughed in­mates by special permission from the U.S. Bureau of Prisons. Out of this grew Colson's Prison Fellowship, which began carrying themes­sage to prisons all over the country. and eventually around the world. 
To demonstrate the power of spiritual reform Colson tells the story of a Christian prison in Brazil which his Fellowship has run for 15 years. producing an astoundingly low four percent recidivism rate. This compares with American Bureau of Justice Statistics which place the American at 62.5 percent. based on rearrest within three years for a felony or serious misdemeanor. 
Not surprisingly. the Brazilian model. which utilizes chapel as the center of the prison. a buddy system. and placement of inmates into homes of volun­teer families upon release, is being copied in Ecuador. Peru. Colombia and Russia. England is also considering it. Of course. those who favor a high "wall of separation" between church and state {i.e. the American Civil Liberties Union) would prevent such a system in America. 
Colson points out. "We live in a post-Christian age today. To use Augustine's metaphor. I'd like to see the City of God have greater influence in the city of man. because I don't think a secular society is sustainable. I think we've lost sight of the fact that religion has historically been at the root of culture." 
For now the man who. in the words of Congressman Frank Wolf. "motivates others to live radically. wholly for God," will have to rely on his more modest American successes. Reaching 800 prisons in 55 countries with a paid staff of 280 and some 50,000 volunteers. Prison Fellowship offers Bible studies. work-release programs. mar­riage seminars. and "life after prison" classes to help rehabili­tate convicts. 
Needless to say. Colson has donated his prize money to the Fellowship, through which he pays himself a salary of $59,000 per year. In fact. Colson commented on winning the award, "I was driven to my knees. humbled and grateful to the Lord Jesus Christ whom I serve. By God's grace he has chosen to take a person from the shame and disgrace of Watergate and prison and use him to build a prison move­ment." 
Decrying what he calls the gospel of "cheap grace" which panders to the masses and aims to make people "feel good," Colson reminds us that real Christianity is about love and sacrifice. "We're showing this world that Christians aren't hate-filled bigots. pushing our fingers in other people's eyes. trying to cram our narrow­minded views down other peo­ple's throats. We are people filled with the love of God who will go out and do things in society," he explains. 
As for the prisoners, he says, "I don't think I've ever heard a prisoner give his testimony without crying. Compare that to the average church." 
Frank Pimentel is a 198 7 Notre Dame graduate and cur­rently a third-year student in the Law School. 



·.·.. 
·~friday 
8V8IIII 
·.1 .. 
·"Wide Sar~o Sea." Snlte Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:~0 . p.~$2. "What's Lam Got to do With ft," Cushing Auditorium. 8 
& 10:30 p.m.. $2. Casino Night,.South Dining Hall. 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. Irish Pep Rally, 7:30p.m., .J.A.C.C. s:ortn Talent Show, 8:30p.m. (after Pep Rally}, outside 
Sorin Hall. Santa Lucia, folk dance ballet with authentic music, costumes. and dances, Stepan Center, 7 p.m.• $3. Women's volleyball vs. Alumni in a" reunion match," 8 p.m., J.A.C.C. Arena. 
saturday 
&vents 
Not~e Dame Marching Band pre-game performance 
11:30 p.m., Administration Building. Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh, kick-off 12:35 p.m. "Wide Sargasso Sea," Snite Auditorium. 7:30 & 9:30 
p.m.,$2. "What's Love Got to do With It," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m.. $2. 
sunday 
evmdS 
Guest Organ Recital, featuring Johannes Geffert, 8 p.m., Sacred Heart Basilica, free admission. Misa en Espanol, 11 :30 p.m .. Breen-Phillips Chapel, Padre Timothy Scully. ND women's soccer vs. Evansville, 1 p.m., Alumni Field. 
movies 
Univarslly Park East 
The Program 7, 9:-20, For Love or Money 7:30, 9:45 BrQitll{ Tale 7:05, 9:35 Sleepless in Seattle 7:40, 9':50 Striking Distance 7:25, 9:30 Jurassic Park 8 
University ,... West 
Agn af lnnoccncr. 7:15, 10 Warlock U 7:30, 9:30 Free Willy 7. 9':15 
Friday, October 8, 1993 
e 

zn 


Notre Dame Marching Band has captivated its audience with spirit, entertainment, and the traditional Notre Dame sense of pride. Band member, Jeff Catalina describes the band as "an organization that encompasses you into its family and creates special and long­lasting friendships". 
The band is the oldest uni­

versity marching band in the 
country, and hasn't missed per­
forming at a home game since 
Notre Dame football began in 
1887. The band itself originated 
in 1845 and was among the 
first in the nation to perform 
precision drills in picture for­
mations. 1 . Since its beginning a few 
changes have taken place. The 
Irish Guard was developed to 
add color and maintain tradi­
tion in 1951, and women were 
inducted in 1972. Today the 
band is led by members in sev­
eral positions. Director Luther 
Snavely is starting his seventh 
year at the University after 
leaving Mississippi where he 
was the band director for eigh­
teen years. James Phillips is 
Associate Director of the band 
and Father George Wiskirchen 
is the assistant director. Dave 
Dion is president and Christina 
Mendoza is vice president. The 
band performs at football 
games as well as bowl games, 
hockey games, pep rallies, con­
certs, and commencement 
activities. 
The 1993 band season began on August 25, as returning members arrived on campus to welcome the incoming mem­bers who would arrive the next day. Final auditions took place August 30. During tryouts can­didates were judged in two dif­ferent areas. The first was a musical playing part and the second a marching routine. Two out of every five candi­dates made the cut which re­sulted in today's 303 members that make up nine different in­strumental sections. 
The music is chosen with sev­eral considerations in mind. The student band members suggest possible songs that the crowd will recognize and want to sing. The directors, who make the ultimate decision, keep these considerations in mind as well as the importance of choosing songs that are in­tense, clear, and appealing to all age groups. 

Football Saturdays always prove to be the busiest days of the year for most band mem­bers. The band begins the day rehearsing at Loftus Sports Center. After rehearsal the members go home to change into their uniforms and meet again for the traditional eleven o'clock concert on the steps of the Administration Building. After the concert inspection takes place and the band marches to the tunnel to await the Notre Dame football team and to prepare to greet the crowd during the pre-game show. 
Band member, Jessica Falk says, "Coming out of the tunnel to meet the fans is the most exhilarating feeling in the world." The band continues to play frequently throughout the game and performs their half time and post-game show. These stunning performances are the result of a great deal of time and effort. Practice takes place for 1 and 1/2 hours Monday through Friday and consists of learning and mem­orizing music, analyzing drill charts, and combining music and marching routines. 
The enormous time com­mitment pays off in that the band members experience a number of benefits. The entire band travels cost free to one away game and one bowl game per year. The band members not only get into the games free, but also experience the exhilaration of playing a major role in the games. Most mem­bers would agree, however, that the most valuable benefit of participating in the band is that it is a social organization in itself as well as an extra circular activity. 
President David Dion sums up his feelings about the band with the same comment he made when he was first initiated as president: "Becoming band president is the greatest honor ever bestowed upon me by the student body because band is family, pride, and character. Being part of that is the great­est experience ever." 

The Observer/Tom Zlpprich 

The Irish Guard return to the field after their near-demise last year. 
------------'I 

~--~ -~~~---­

(1-3) (5-0) 
Notre Dame Stadium October 9, 1993 12:30 p.m. 
Junior Linebacker Justin Goheen Steps Up to Fill a. Void in the Irish 
Jason by Kelly Defense 
en linebacker 

Anthony Peterson 
limped helplessly 
off the field, hearts sank at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish were clinging to a lead built largely by the defense against Northwestern. And one of the main ingredients of that defense was hobbling with a knee injury that... would sideline for at least a month. 
Enter Justin Goheen, unsung and unexpectedly thrust into the spotlight. 
Slated as the top backup linebacker entering the 1993 season, Goheen became a starter in the wake of Peterson's injury. 
"We have a saying on the team that the second­stringers are just one play
---·-'-~·-··------~~ ---~--·~·----------~·--­
see GOHEEN /page 6 

A look at Saturday's matchups. 
-see page 2 

Curtis Martin survives as the lone bright spot in a dismal sea­son for the Panthers. 
-see page 3 

Fitting the Irish: a look at the various equipment worn by Notre Dame players. 
-see page 7. 

---~ ,.,-~ '"'-~ --~ "'-,,._,.,....,. •"' ~ 
:.· 

----~ ------------= ­
~-----­
page2 The Observer· SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 8, 1993 

on a scale of I w 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
Ryan had a good sec­ond-half against Ohio State, but that has been it. 
RUNNING BACKS 
Martin has gained II0 yards a game, but the rest ofthe backfield is non-existent 
RECEIVERS 
Pitt's top receiver, Dietrich Jells, is out with a knee injury. All hope is now lost. 
0-LINE 
Pitt QB's were sacked 13 times in its first three games, while the run­ning game was Pitt-iful. 
D-LINE 
Pitt's run defense is ranked among the worst in the country statisti­cally. 
LINEBACKERS 
Sophomore linebacker Tom Tumulry has 49 tackles but there is nothing else there. 
SECONDARY 
The rwo corners are true freshman and Louisville shredded them in 29-7 loss. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Jells was a good returner before he was injured, and they have given up a kick return for a TO. 
Majors may not only be a good coach bur possi­bly their best player. 
FINAL SCORE 
~~ [!!!~ 
This is definitely the lowest score of the year for an opponent, and Pitt deserves it. 
After Martin the cupboard is bare 
By JONATHAN JENSEN a dangerous receiver, but he is lost Associate Sports Editor now for at least the next two games . Finally, their offense can score This season marks a landmark points, as evidenced by their 28­year for the Pittsburgh offense. point performance against a very 
Not only has Pitt gained the ex­tough Ohio State defense, but the pertise of former Tennessee head defense gave up 63 points in that coach Johnny game. Majors, who led Pittsburgh Predictably, Holtz sounds pes­the Panthers to Offense simistic. the 1976 national vs. "We've got to be a better defensive championship, football team or we're just pre­
Notre Dame 
but they also tending," said Holtz. have lost the tal­Def'ense "We just have to find a way to con­ents of quarter­tinue to get better because we are back Alex Van Pelt, who guided the not good enough right now to com­Panthers for what seemed to be pete with the teams on the remain­eight years. der of our schedule." 
Actually, Van Pelt was the Pitt I guess that does not include the starter for just the last four years, Pitt Panthers, nor should it. but it can be said that it it might be a To make matters worse, the Irish 
Photo courtesy of Pitt Sports Information 
bright new year for the Pitt offense. defense has held steady as of late, 
Leading receiver Dietrich Jells will miss
If it weren't for some other pretty out-scoring Purdue and limiting the Saturday's game with an injury.
important factors. Let me explain. high-powered Stanford offense to Junior tailback Curtis Martin is the three touchdowns and a meager 7 4 
yards-not exactly the type of offen­
new focal point in the Pittsburgh net rushing yards. 
sive diversity a team yearns to
offensive scheme, and he has blos­Despite the injuries to starting line­
acheive.
somed under Majors' run-oriented backers Pete Bereich and Anthony
Furthermore, Pitt's leading re­
system. Peterson, the Irish have been able to
ceiver and big-play threat, junior
Martin has rushed for 440 yards in continue to hold tight thanks to 
wide-out Dietrich Jells, is out indef­
their four games, for an average of excellent production from juniors
initely with a knee injury. But wait, it 
110 yards a game and 5.2 yards a Justin Goheen, who is second on the 
gets worse.
carry. Last week, in the Panthers' team in tackles with 41, Jeremy
Starting quarterback John Ryan, a
29-7 loss to Louisville, Martin rushed Sample, Jeremy Nau, and sopho­
sophomore, has thrown for 477
for a career-high 175 yards on 25 more Renaldo Wynn. 
yards, an average of over 119 yards
carries and is leading the Big East in The Notre Dame secondary has 
a game. In fact, the offense has mus­
rushing. also received a boost from junior
tered an average of over two touch­
"Curtis Martin is a great football nickelback Shawn Wooden, who has
downs a game, which seems amaz­
player," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. come all the way back from back
ing considering their lack of balance. 
"After you mention Tyrone surgery that sidelined him for the 
But just look at the Pitt defense. It
Wheatley, Martin is as good a tail­last two years. 
has let up an average of 51 points in 
back as we'II face all year." It seems like an open-and-shut
its last three games, all embarrass­
However, while Martin is the one case-but not to Holtz. 
ing losses. 
bright spot for the Pittsburgh of­"Our level of performance this year 
The Pitt offense is starting to look
fense, there are many glaring low­is not equivalent to the level of per­
like a large double-edged sword.
lights. formance we have had in the past,"
They have a productive rusher, but
Besides Martin, Pitt's leading rush­said Holtz. 
he has carried the ball on over 55
er is former walk-on Chris Patton, However, it will most likely be 
percent of their attempts. They have 
who has seven attempts for 27 more than enough this Saturday. 
Pitt defense doesn't have a prayer 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY held the Cardinals' potent Assistant Sports Editor offense scoreless in the first quarter and relin­What must the quished only two field Pittsburgh Panther defense goals in the second quarter do in order to halt Notre before closing the half with Dame's offensive attack? a 7-6 lead. The Cardinals 
"Go to the Grotto," sug­came back in the second gested one Irish half and claimed a 29-7 victory. 
student. Notre Dame 
Indeed, the The Panther
Offense
Panthers have a defense will be formidable task V$. >''iiW significantly more ahead of them in Pitt~burgh ., susceptible this weekend's against the Irish
Defensematch-up with the rushing attack. Photo courtesy of Pitt Sports Information Fighting Irish. Through the first Linebacker Tom Tumulty leads the Pitt defense in tackles 
Through four games this three games this season, 
with 47. 

season, the 1-3 Pitt squad Pitt was 106th out of 106 has allowed 63 points Division 1-A teams in ondary lacks depth and endured in head coach Lou 
twice and an average defending against the run, experience. Its two corner­Holtz's career. Pitt has 
486.5 total yards per allowing an average of backs are a true freshman forced 11 turnovers this 
game. Since knocking off 323.7 yards and 5. 7 yards and a 5-9 sophomore. season and has a Big East Southern Mississippi 14-10 per carry. The defensive corps is leading +0.75 turnover in its season opener, the Pitt's defensive line, lead by redshirt sopho­ratio. The Irish have had team has allowed an aver­which starts three sopho­more linebacker Tom only two passes inter­age of 52 points per game. mores and one junior, has Tumulty, who missed last cepted and four fumbles The Irish counter with been particularly weak this season with a torn chest stolen this year. an offense that is averag­season. The foursome has muscle after starting in his According to Notre Dame ing 370 yards and 31 averaged only 11 tackles freshman year. head coach Lou Holtz, the 
points per outing. They are per game even though Clearly Pitt's most con­Panthers have changed coming ofT a 475 yard, 48 opponents have run the sistent defensive player, from a shifted defense to a point performance last ball 170 times. Tumulty leads the team more balanced defense weekend at Stanford. Notre Dame averages with 47 tackles and 29 solo which features an eight­
Last year, the Irish 210 yards rushing and will stops. Last weekend's 12 man front. racked up 521 yards of certainly rely on its ground tackle performance versus Look for the Irish to run total offense against the attack to manipulate the Louisville marked his third all over the Pitt defense Panthers en route to a 52-Panther defense. double-digit taekle game of tomorrow. Although the 21 trouncing. The Pitt pass defense has the year. Panthers are loaded with To be successful, Pitt will been much more success­One aspect of the game young talent, they are sim­
need to display the same ful than the rushing in which the Irish will need ply not prepared to handle calibre of defense that it defense. It intercepted five to take caution is the powerful Notre Dame did in the first half of its of the 63 passes its first turnovers. Turnovers have attack. 
contest with Louisville last three opponents threw this been a crucial factor in Even if they light a two weekend. The Panthers season. However, its sec-every loss the team has dollar candle. 
on a scale of I to 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
McDougal's awesome performance last week proves Purdue was a bad joke. 
RUNNING BACKS 
Kinder's 100-yard per­formance shows he is a new offensive weapon. 
RECEIVERS 
Another huge day for Dawson, Johnson, and Mayes last week. 
0-LINE 
Leahy's injury hurts the "continuity", according to Holtz. 
D-LINE 
1"~1
l.!ll 
Line has become a con­sistent force against the run. 
LINEBACKERS 
Sample, Nau, and Goheen have done their best, bur it may not be enough. 
SECONDARY 
[§1 
They played about as good as you can against the Stanford passing game. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
m 
Johnson may not get the ball again all year after last week's returns. 
COACHING 
l~>{~
I.!:!J 
Holtz continues to downplay the team, but it's getting harder to believe him. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
No contest against the Pitt-iful Panthers. 

"'"-------------~-------....... ------~­

Friday, October 8, 1993 page3 
Martin keeps focus during Panthers' dentise 
By CORY WALBORN 
The Pitt News 
At six in the morning, Pitt Stadium is a lonely place to be. But for one young mind searching for some focus, it's the only place to be. Forget loneliness, Curt Martin has a job to do. 
"The reason behind [running stadium stairs] was it made me think," Martin said of his preseason football routine. "I knew [in the past] I haven't put forth the effort that I should have, but I knew I could be a better running back." 
And after Pitt's first four games, it is safe to say, the junior tailback is. 
Leading the Panthers in rushing and total offense, Martin has bared the burden of Pitt's young,----------­
season. But that's OK, he's ready. 
"I have never really been in shape," Martin said. "Butnow my ankles · };;: ; · > ·• 
and legs are definitely STJ\TS;•.Has265 yards str?nger. a~d I d~d some ingand.i~cco~nt~ for weighthft~.ng [m the cent of the Panther vu........... 
preseason.] .. . . -. ;c.~_ h. ­
"I still take a lot of hits, ts-seconU: on.t .e te;;tm 
but I don't feel like I take a lot of hits." 
That's a good thing. 
Rushing the ball 84 times in four games and catching ten passes, Martin is taking his share of the wallops. The Panther tailback is also getting his share of accolades. 
First in the Big East with 440 yards rush­ing (110 yards per game) and fourth in the conference in all-purpose yardage ( a solid 187-yard average), a newly focused Martin did not just buckle down for his own bene­fit. 
for 86 
And the Panther running back 'family' Martin is a part of."We all push each other," Martin said of the Pitt backfield. 
After the first two games, 
however, most of the hand-clapping and helmet-slapping has gone Martin's way. He is the Panther's number-one back 
"It makes me want to stay healthy," Martin said of his current starting position. "I like to get the ball, but as long as we win and it's a good team effort.' 
But most Pitt fans don't see it that way. Most have the high expectations since one #33 cut and diced his way into the Pitt record books twenty years ago. 
Martin, however, is not looking to break records and he is certain! not lookin at a Heisman Trophy either. He just wants to get better. 
"Curtis Martin is a good athlete," Pitt head coach John Majors said about his most productive player so far this season. "He has grown and matured and he has been very consistent. He is relaible and I am pleased," Majors added. 
Did Majors and his new coaching staff have something to do with Martin's commitment and drastic turnaround? 
"If [last year's) coaches would have been here, I still would have done it," Martin said of his focusing. "It really didn't matter who did the coaching.'' 
With his more determined mond, Martin did everything for the Panthers in their opener against Southern Mississippi. 
Scoring both Pitt touchdowns, the first on a one-yard leap and the other on a nine­yard swing pass. 
In garrie two, against a tough Virginia Teach team, things were a little different. 
Until the second half, that is. 
With the score well out of Pitt's reach, Martin burst through one of the few Hokie defensive holes and then seemed to be stopped dead in his tracks. But he didn't quit and broke free for a 51-yard touch­down scamper. 
It wasn't too late this past Saturday against Louisville either. With Pitt down 6­0 late in the first half, Martin, again stopped dead in his tracks kept his legs churning and broke free for a 59-yard scamper to the Louisville 22. Martin's jaunt led to his six-yard touchdown run. 
And the Pitt season is not too late for recovery. Especially if Martin keeps rack­ing up the yardage. 
"As of yesterday I didn't know how many yards I had [in the first four games)," Martin said. "Somebody had to tell me." 
Now that's focused. 
Others To Watch 

TOMTUMULTY 

A starter since his fresh­man campaign, has a team-high 35 tackles. 


DAVID SUMNNER 
Sophomore strong safety is second tackles and leads team in pass defelctions. 

JOHN RYAN 

Was 15-21 for236 yards and four touchdowns in one half against Ohio State. 

ELCOME PARENTS! 
GO IRISH! Papa predicts: Notre Dame 49 beat pitt Pitt 14 

~·­
..-----,.._...,...-----­
page4 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 8, 1993 
PANTHERS 





1 Chad /lskim WR Jr 6-4200 2 M.Davis FN Gt 6-1 275 3 S. Kalmanides PK Fr 6-1 180 4 J.Williams RB Sr 6-2 215 5 Kevin Leon PSr 6-0200 6 M. Reece DB Fr 6-1 175 7 D'Alessandro PK Sr 5-11 165 8 J. Morrison LB So 6-0 220 9 Shan Hart WR Fr 5-10 100 10 P. Go112alez QB Fr 6-1 180 11 D. Mosley DB Fr 6-1 175 12 A. Dorsett DB So5-11 100 15 J. Jenkins DB Fr 6-2 100 14 John Ryan QB So 6-3 195 16 T. Binion DB So 6-3 175 17 M. Witlicml DB Sr 5-11 170 18 K. Robinson DB Fr 5-11 200 19 Jim Williams DB Fr 5-11 175 20 Billy West RB Fr 5-10 100 21 Jay.i!l!les DB So 5-9 170 22 M. Washington FB Jr 5-9 235 23 C. Anderson WR Fr 6-1 180 24 D. Whaley DB Sr 5-11 185 25 Tim Colicchio RB Jr 5-10 195 26 Dietrich Jells WR Jr 6-1 175 27 D. Parker DB Jr 5-8 170 28 K. Ferguson QB So 6-3 205 29 C. Martin RB Jr 6-0 100 30 v. WilliCITlS FB Jr 6-2 215 31 Chris Patton RB So 5-10 210 32 L. Brooks FB So 6-2 230 36 C. Hupko DB Jr 5-11 185 38 N. Cochran P Fr 6-5 215 39 D. alexander RB Fr 5-9 180 40 Chad Dukes RB Sr 6-1 215 41 Keith Unle LB Sr 6-3 220 43 Hayes Clark LB Jr 6-2 220 45 G. Simpson LB So 6-3 215 46 D. Sumrer DB So 6-2 100 48 z. MoOOy DL So 6-2 225 
Johnny Majors 
First year at Pitt, after coaching there from 1973-'76. 
Career Records: Overall174-108-10; at Pitt, 34-16-1; vs. Notre Dame, 4-4. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: Iowa State (5 sea­sons), Pitt (4 seasons), Tennessee (16 seasons). 
49 Bill Davis WR Jr 6-2 195 
Career Highlights: Led Pitt to the 1976 National SO Todd Ryan DL Sr 6-4 240 
Championship, has led his teams to 16 postseason 
51 R. Humphrey LB Fr 6-1 215 
bowl appearances, and since 1985 his teams are 
undefeated in four major bowl games. 
53 C. Williams LB Sr 6-3260 55 Jared Miller OL Fr 6-3 240 56R.Thornas OL Fr 6-3 255 57 G. Mohring LB Jr 6-2205 
-----1993 Statistics 
58 J. Chavis LB So 6-2 240 60 Jeff Craig OL Fr 6-6 295 
RUSHING 

61 R. Cardinali OL So 6-7 270 
YOSIGM NO YOS AVG TO LG Martin 110.0 84 440 5.2 3 59
62 Quincy Wynn OL Fr 6-6 330 
West 8.0 6 24 4.0 0 14 Patton 6.6 7 27 3.9 0 12 Washington 4.3 5 17 3.4 0 12 
63 Jason Stevens OL Jr 6-3 275 
64 E. Johnson DL So 6-2 265 
Brooks 4.0 5 12 2.4 0 6 
65 Tim Robbins DL Fr 6-5265 
PASSING 

66 Frank Huck OLJr 6-5260 
RATING COMP ATT PCT YOS TO LG 
Ryan 137.2 38 66 57.6 477 5 60
68 L. Mollica OLJr 6-4 275 
69 Rodney Epps OL Fr 6-2 270 
RECEIVING

70 L. Liggett OL Sr 6-5 305 
NO YOS AVG TO LG Jells 10 171 17.1 2 45 Green 10 155 15.5 2 60 
71 D. Kristofic OL Sr 6-5 275 
72 J. Sepkowski OL Fr 6-3 265 
Martin 10 83 8.3 1 18 Davis 8 128 16.0 1 41
73 Matt Bloom OL Jr . 6-6 315 
West 3 28 9.3 0 14 
Belvin 3 24 8.0 0 19
7 4 Brian Curran OL So 6-6 245 
75 Tim Glass OL Fr 6-3 295 
FIELD GOALS

76 Jon Marzoch OL Fr 6-4 265 
1993 PlnSBURGH 
TOT Kalman ides 2-4 

77 B. Mensch OL Fr 6-6 295 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS

80 R. Belvin TE So 6-3 240 81 ChuckCoe WR Fr 5-11 180 
' 
PUNTING

83 Chad Skrocki TE So 6-4 225 
NO AVG LG Cochran 7 42.3 52 

84 TOOl Tumulty LB So 6-2 240 
87 Junior Green WR Sr 6-1 190 
Leon 21 40.6 54 

88 L. Warmack TE Fr 6-3 235 
INTERCEPTIONS

89 L. Casanova  OL Sr  6-2 260  
90 Tom Barndt  DL Jr  6-4 280  NO  YOS  TO  LG  
91 D. Seagraves  DL So  6-3 240  Tumuity Jones  2 1  6 5  0 0  6 5  
92 K. Spencer  DL Fr  6-5 230  Sumner Williams  1 1  0 0  0 0  0 0  
94 M. Halapin  DL So  6-5 260  Buford  1  -3  0  -3  
95 Tony Reardon  DL So  6-4 240  

96 Man Hosilyk DL So 6-4 275 97 J. Soboleski LB Fr 6-4 240 
DEFENSE 

98 M. Mohring DL Fr 6-5 260 
Tumuity 
Sumner 
Clark

The Observer/BF$ndan Regan 
Williams 
Whaley McCray Jones Chavis Halapin Simpson Barndt Mosley 
G. Mohring 
M. Mohring Robbins Moody Hosiiyk Williams Humphrey Davis Binion Ryan Seagraves Reardon Marzoch Casanova T A TOT PBU 30 19 49 1 17 15 32 3 20 10 30 0 21 6 27 6 17 9 26 1 15 10 25 1 16 6 24 1 11 6 17 o. 12 4 16 0 10 6 16 0 

8 7 15 0 
8 3 11 1 
4 7 11 0 
6 4 10 0 
6 4 10 0 
4 5 9 0 
6 2 8 0 
6 1 7 1 
4 3 7 0 
4 1 5 0 
3 1 4 0 
2 2 4 0 
2 1 3 0 
1 2 3 0 
1 2 3 0 
2 0 2 0 
The Last Time: 
Notre Dame 52, Pitt 21 

Last year Pitt could not contain the Irish's high-powered offense, which com­piled 521 yards in total offense en route to a 52-21 victory in a nationally televised game at Pitt Stadium. 
Pitt scored the game's first points, though, with an impressive 7 4-yard drive on its second offensive series that result­

ed in a 20-yard field goal. 

Pitt then pulled to within 28-14 late in Alex Van Pelt the third quarter, but the Irish scored on its next five pos­sessions for the victory. 
Rick Mirer went 9-16 for 182 yards and two TO's, while Pitt's Alex Van-Pelt was 25-42 for 246 yards. 
ALL-PURPOSE 
RUSH REC Jells 0 171 Martin 440 66 Green 0 155 Davis 103 12 Mosely 113 0 West 0 0 Washington 0 15 Patton 0 14 Ferguson -7 0 Ryan ·10 0 Jensen -40 0 
RET TOT AVG 161 264 132.0 0 528 125.5 13 163 73.5 0 115 57.5 0 113 56.5 23 23 11.5 0 15 7.5 0 14 7.0 0 -7 -3.5 0 ·10 -5.0 0 -40 -40.0 

SCORING SUMMARY 
1 2 3 4 T Pittsburgh 10 10 36 14 70 Opponents 56 37 37 35 165 

SAC .FA 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

SCORING 
TO  PATx2PATx1 FG  PTS  
Martin  4  1  0  0  26  
Kalman Ides 0  0  8  2  14  
Green  2  0  0  0  12  
Jells  2  0  0  0  12  
Davis  1  0  0  0  6  

KICKOFF RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG Mosley 1 29.0 0 29 Jells 18 22.2 0 66 
PUNT RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG 

Jones 1 M~~ 2 
TEAM STATISTICS 
First Downs by rushing by passing by penalty 
T olal yardage 

.Offensive plays Avg. yards per play Total yards I game 
Rushing yards Rushing plays Rushing yards I game 
Passing yards Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted Passing yards I game 
Fumbles · fumbles lost Pena~ies -penalty yards 3rd down conversions 
percentage 4th down conversions percentage 
PITT 52 21 28 
3 1012 231 4.38 253.0 424 147 106.0 566 46 64 4 147.0 6-3 17-132 14·55 25.5 4·5 60.0 
4.0 0 4 
M 0 ~ 
OPP 91 54 35 2 1946 311 6.26 486.5 1104 208 276.0 842 58 103 6 210.5 10· 4 27.249 33-60 55.0 3-4 75.0 


The History of the Series 
The Records: 
Notre Dame leads 37-16-1 Last ND Win: 1992 (52-21) Last Pitt Win: 1987 (30-22) Longest Series Streaks: 
ND-11 (1964-1974) 
Pitt-3 (1932-34 ), (1958­1960), (1983, 1986­87) 
At Notre Dame Stadium: Notre Dame leads series 15­8 

Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page 5 
Sf FIGHTING 
RUSHING  
YDS/GM  NO  YDS  
58.8  49  235  
58.0  53  290  
47.6  52  238  
20.6  25  103  
14.8  23  74  
9.0  13  36  
PASSING  

RATING COMP ATT PCT YDS TO INT LG Farmer 36 0 
155.945 70 45 64.3 693 3 2 50 Chryplewicz 0 34 
262.56 7 6 85.7 108 1 0 80 lytle 27 0 Edwards 22 0RECEIVING Stafford 0 12 
NO YDS AVG TO LG 
SCORING SUMMARY 
11  235  21.4  2  80  
9  191  21.2  0  50  1  
8  144  18.0  0  32  Opponents  13  
7 5  25 45  3.6. 9.0  1 1  16 12  Notre Dame  24  
4  90  22.5  0  43  

FIELD GOALS 
1993 NOTRE DAME 
17-39 40-49 50+ LG 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
Pendergast 8-10 0-0 0-0 34 
PUNTING 
NO AVG LG 1 44.0 44 18 39.9 55 33.0 33 
INTERCEPTIONS 
NO YDS TO LG 2 61 0 43 22 0 22 21 1 21 0 0 0 0 0 0 
DEFENSE  
T  A  TOT  PBU  SAC  FR  
29  14  43  0  3.5  0  
26  15  41  2  0.5  0  
25  3  28  3  0.0  0  
23  3  26  5  1.0  1  
17  9  26  1  1.0  1  
Burris  19  6  25  4  2.0  0  
Gibson  18  5  23  0  0.5  0  
Covington  18  5  23  2  0.0  1  
Hami~on  15  8  23  0  2.0  3  
Flanigan  15  8  23  0  1.0  0  
Magee  13  4  17  3  0.0  0  
Sample  13  1  14  0  0.0  0  
Wynn  9  3  12  0  1.0  0  
Knight  5  3  8  0  1.0  0  
Nau  5  3  8  2  0.5  0  
Wooden  6  1  7  0  0.0  0  
6  1  7  1  1.0  0  
5  1  6  0  0.0  0  
3  2  5  0  0.0  0  
2  3  5  0  0.0  0  
2  2  4  0  0.0  0  
1  3  4  0  0.0  0  
2  1  3  0  0.0  0  
2  1  3  0  0.0  0  
2  0  2  0  0.0  0  
1  0  1  0  1.0  0  

NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Built in 1930 
Capacity: 59,075 
Largest Crowd: 
61,296 (1962) 
Surface: Grass 
ND's Record There: 
236-67-5 
One of the most feared and respected landmarks in football history, Notre Dame Stadium has been the home of more nation­al champions than any other stadium in college football. 
LouH 
Eighth season at Notre Dame. 
Records at Notre Dame: Overall 70-18-1; at Home 35-7­1; on the Road 34-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall185-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; vs. Pitt 5-2. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 sea­sons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No. 3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset No. 3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. Topped No. 3 Michigan this year. 
1993 Statistics 
ALL-PURPOSE 
AVG TO LG RUSH REC 4.8 1 40 Miller 0 191 5.5 0 33 Becton 235 45 4.6 1 23 C. Johnson 0 90 4.1 4 43 Kinder 290 0 3.2 1 9 Zellars 238 25 2.8 1 7 Mayes 0 235 Dawson 8 144 McDougal 103 0 Clark 74 8 
TEAM STATISTICS 
NO OPP First Downs 96 94 by rushing 56 32 by passing 34 58 by penalty 6 4 Total yardage 1855 1591 Offensive plays 321 339 Avg. yards per play 5.78 4.69 Total yards I game 371.0 318.2 Rushing yards 1054 415 Rushing plays 244 158 Rushing yards I game 210.8 83.0 Passing yards 801 1176 Passes completed 51 120 Passes attempted 77 181 Passes intercepted 2 6 Passing yards I game 160.2 235.2 Fumbles -tumbles lost 6-4 9-7 Penahies -penalty yards 26-206 35-316 3rd down conversions 27-60 34-74 percentage 45.0 45.9 4th down conversions 1-2 3-4 percentage 50.0 75.0 
2 3 4 T 16 20 20 69 43 54 34 155 
SCORING 
TO  PATx2 PATx1  FG  PTS  
Pendergast  0  0  17  5  41  
McDougal  4  0  0  0  24  
Becton  2  0  0  0  12  
Edwards  2  0  0  0  12  
Mayes  2  0  0  0  12  
Zellars  2  0  0  0  12  
Farmer  1  0  0  0  6  
C. Johnson  1  0  0  0  6  

KICKOFF RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG C. Johnson 3 n.3 1 100 Miller 4 16.3 0 20 
PUNT RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG Miller 13 9.5 56 
2. Dan Farren FL 6-0 164 Jr. 2. LeShane Saddler FS 5-11 194 Sr. 3. Ron Powlus QB 6-4 210 Fr. 4. Lee l3ec!On TB 6-Q 190 Jr. 5. Paul Failla QB 6-2 193 Jr. 6. Mike Mifter FL 5-7 157 Jr. 7. Dean lytle FB 6-3 240 Sr. 8. Glint Johnson SE 5-8 180 Sr. 9. Jeff Bimis FS 6-Q 204 Sr. 
10. Adrian .Jarrell. FL 6-Q 194 Sr. 11. Tom·KtuQ>~; .. QB 6-5 210 Fr. 11. TomMliliOo!iak:l SS 6-0 189 Jr. 12 . K. Pe!ldetgast .. K 5-10 168 Sr. 13. Brianforlf fl;' K 6-4 190 Fr. 14. Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 170 Fr. 14.. CotinRittgers P 6-2 210 So 15. KevinMcOougal QB 6-2 194 Sr. 
16. GhrisPareoli . QB 6-1 193 Sr. 
16. Briar\f\lny. DB 6-1 205 Fr. 
17. Br~Magee SS 5-10 199 So. 18 .Wa(leSm@,~; 08 6-3 178 So. 19. An~~mey 08 5-11 180 Fr. 
20 . M~ And~ SS 5-7 163 Jr. 20 • Cif<ai CN!n'ipjon WR 5-11 170 Fr. 
21. 
BobbyTaykif FS 6-3 191 So. 

22. 
Robleoiiatd KP 6-1 186 Sr. 


22 . Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 187 Jr. 
23 
. BrianBaket . SE 5-10 179 Sr. 

24 
.G. Slatroril FL 5-10 182 Jr. 


25. Brent Boznarlski KP 6-3 174 Sr. 
25. Randyli;loder TB 6-1 205 Fr. 25, Orewl\4alsh .. K 6-1 187 Sr. 
26. Marl<~ DB 6-0 175 So. 
27. TracyGraham CB 5-10 197 Jr. 28. Ron 1-lafdill FB 6-2 227 Fr. 
29 
.John Goviilgloo SS 6-1 211 Sr. 

30 
: Marc Edwards FB 6-2 220 Fr. 

31 
. Robert Fanner TB 6-1 215 Fr. 


32. 
Willie Clark GB 5-10 181 Sr. 

33. 
Greg Lane CB 5-9 180 Sr. 


34 . Brian Meier GB 5-7 152 Sr. 
34. Ray Zellars .· FB 5-11 218 Jr. 
35. Tim Ktusa<> TB 5-8 186 Jr. 
35. 
Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So. 

36. 
Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 Jr. 


37. 
Travis Davis·· TB 6-0 192 Jr. 

38. 
Rick Lozano FB 5c10 189 Sr. 


38. Sim StOkes DB 6-2 200 Fr. 
39. Kinnon Tatum DB 6-1 195 Fr. 
39. Marcus Thorne. LB 6-0 215 So. 
40 . Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 207 So. 4t Joe . LB 6-2 218 So. 42. WR 5-8 155 Jr. 42. DE 6-4 260 So. 43. LB 6-2 224 So. 44. NT 6-2 276 Sr. 
IRISH 
45 
.John Lyndl WR fi-2 179 SO. 

46 
. OW.:Connetl FL 5-10 1Z5 So. 


47. 
Pete Bereich LB 6-2 237 Sr. 

48. 
Renaldo-Wynn DE 5-3 230 So 

49. 
A. Pelerslln 1.£ H 223 Sr. 

50. 
Greg Stec e 6-2 250 Jr. 

51. 
Melvia Dansby LB 6-4 250 Fr. 


52. G. Holden OT 6-4 245 .ir. 
53 .Jim Kordas OG 5-5 211.· .k'.. 
54 . Justin Gillian LB 6-2 226 ·Jr.· 
55. Oliver Glbso!l· ;. NT 6-3 275 Sr. 
56 .s. Armllru$ilr .. Ji? .fi-0, 315 Jr. 
56 .Huntllly llakic:h -~~ 6,-2 ®3 Jr. ~~: = -LB ~~·,: ~­
58. ~Nlu BE 6-4 234 Jr. 
59. laiD.liii!IISOIL. C &-1 265 Sr. 
60. 
Bert !By ,>: .lB 6-4 230 Ft. 

61. 
Tim~ ";·-C. 5-3 286 Sr: 62. M.M~ (IGt&-3 214 


63. ~~ oo· s-2 
64. Stevef.tiselie OQ s::5 
65. Lyron Cobbins lB .~ 230Jf:' · 
66. Tod:f'Ner~Tan or &4 ~~Sr. 
67. Mark lata¥eski 00 &,-6 'mi Jr. . 68. JelfRiiEy 00 &-5 ..... 
69. 
Dmlid Quist Bl &-5' ~. 

70. 
MiiiiiMcGiinn OT ff;~"St. 

71. 
HemertGibson OT :~Jr.· 


72. Ryan !-si1Y OT :H,.-ilf. 
73. -...~ ,01.. ):«':&'Fr.' · 74 .Will bjB/1 · .;.; OG 6-5 263 So.:·· 
75. Aaron Tayk:r ·~ OT 6-4 299 76.~ OT 6-S 272 77. Dus~ OT 6-6 240 
78. Jordan+laller OT 6-7 296 Sr. 
79. Chris Kurpeilcis GL 6-7 290 fr. 
80. Oscar~ TE 6-i 251 Sr. 
81. Rich Sauget TE 6-4 218 Jr. 
82 .Joe Carroll WR 5-9 110 Jr. 
85. 
Robert Hugta TE &-1 266 Sr. 

86. 
Ben Foos DT .'&:4 'm'So. 

87. 
Lake Dawson SE 6-1 202..ar. 


88 .Leon Wallace TE 6-3 268 Sti 
89. John Kouris TE 6-3 218 So. 
90 .Brian Hamilton DE 1ft! 275 Sr. 
91. Darnell Smith DE 6.i 2ll Fr_ 
92 .John Taliafarro DT 6-3 261 Jr. 
93. 
Paul Grasmanis DT 5-3 265 So. 

94. 
Reggie Fleurima OT 6-3 262 Jr. 


95 .Chris C11MDJr DE 6-7 245 Fr. 
96 .Thomas Knight DE 6-4 231 96. S. Schmlll1er K 5-9 160 
97. Bl)illl Y01J111 DT 
98. 
P. ClvyptewicZ TE 

99. 
eti1 SlfOud , .-~ ·tlT 




-
-
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

_j 
RET 189 
0 
232 
0 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 
TOT 380 
280 
322 
290 263 
235 
152 
103 82 38 34 27 22 12 


AVG 76.0 70.0 64.4 58.0 52.6 47.0 30.4 20.6 16.4 9.0 6.8 5.4 4.4 4.0 

page 6 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 8, 1993 
-
Goheen 
continued from page 1 
away from starting. It's true, it happened to me this year," Goheen said. 
"I felt very sorry for Anthony because he's a friend of mine and it's always tough to see a friend get hurt. But on the other hand, it's my shot and I have to take advantage of it." 
Goheen did take advantage of his opportunity against Michi­gan. 
It was a game that few people thought the Irish could win, particularly after Peterson's injury, which was expected to hinder Notre Dame's rushing 

The ObserverfT.J. Harris 
Justin Goheen is second on the team with 41 tackles. 
0• 
z<C :iN 
ON 
CD. 
YZZid SaONIINOG 


defense. 
Instead, it was Goheen who helped hinder Michigan's rush­ing offense with nine tackles. 
"I was really excited about the Michigan game because it was the first time I had the opportunity to play against them," he said. "The anxiety that I felt was mostly just to get out on the field and play." 
It was only the third career start for the junior from Wex­ford, Pennsylvania and the first since his freshman season. 
He felt very different anxi­eties in those days. 
"I remember that in my first start (as a freshman against USC), I had so much adrena­line because I was really scared about not doing the right thing," Goheen said. "I was so worried, I don't know how I played as well as I did." 
He finished that afternoon with 12 tackles and he forced a fumble that set up Notre Dame's final touchdown. 
An illness kept him out of the next few games, but he re­turned to play against Penn State and started again in the season finale at Hawaii. 
One of only four freshman to earn a monogram that season, Goheen proved to be a valuable player ofT the bench. 
"It was the same type of situation as this year," Goheen said of his rookie season. "Injuries gave me an opportuni­ty to play and I just tried to make the most of my chances." 
He credits his "big brother," former Irish linebacker Brian Ratigan with helping him adjust to the college game. 
"Every freshman on the team has a big brother and Brian Ratigan was mine," Goheen said. "He really took care of me my freshman year. Having him 
COVER STORY 

to help me was really a big boost." 
Goheen had fewer chances to play in his sophomore season, which began on a sour note when he hurt his ankle in the final preseason scrimmage. 
He missed the first two games and saw only limited action the rest of the season. 
"With (former Irish line­backer) Demetrius DuBose sus­pended, the first two games last season would have been a good opportunity for me to play, but my ankle injury kept me out," · Goheen said. 
His playing opportunities have been more frequent this season, with Peterson and Notre Dame's other starting linebacker Pete Bereich out in­definitely. 
That leaves Goheen as the most talented and most experi­enced healthy linebacker in an Irish uniform. 
"It is a tough position injury­wise," he said. "On 80% of the plays a linebacker is involved in a high-impact situation, so its hard to stay healthy for an en­tire season." 
Goheen has managed to stay healthy long enough to solidify his starting position, collecting 41 tackles this season, includ­ing a tearo.-high 14 against Purdue. 
In his first two seasons com­bined, he had only 17 stops. 
Extended playing time is ob­viously a factor in his balloon­ing numbers, but he isn't sur­prised that he has been able to step in and make a big contri­bution. 
"Everybody practices the same way. We're all prepared for the same things," Goheen said. "It's just a matter of putting what you learn in prac­tice into the games." 
Football Weelcend Special 

ONE TOPPING 
2 $18.95 
FOR 
tlult'• over 4 foot oE I'Uza •• • 60 .,ec:taeullu-•Bce.tll 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 

Practice is a true learning ex­bra! player. perience for Goheen. "I think of practice as a learn­
Football is as much a mental ing time. It's important to be game as it is a physical one, intense and emotional and even and Goheen strives to master mean during the games, but both aspects. within that realm you also have 
''I'm very intense and emo­to understand what's going on." tional during the games," he Goheen understands. 
said. "But I'm also a very cere-
TOPPINGS PIZZAS 12" MEDIUM 15" X-LARGE 

PEPPEilONI BAM MUSHROOMS SAUSAGE 
BLACK OUVES 
CHEDDAR 
CHEESE 
HOT PEPPERS BACON 
PINEAPPlE 
!-Topping  5.95  6.95  
2-Toppings  6.95  7.95  
Additional Toppings Available  -$1.00 each  

GET A 2nd PIZZA (SAME SIZE) FOR ONLY $4.00 MORE!!!!! 
SPECIALTY PIZZAS 
Veggie Meatzza Bacon Cheeseburger Hawaiian Deluxe PARTY PACK* 12" MEDIUM 15" X-LARGE 7.95 8.95 7.95 8.95 7.95 8.95 6.95 8.95 7.95 7.95 11.99 13.95 
*PARTY PACK includes....2PIZZAS (!-Topping) + ITWISTY BREAD W/SAUCE + ICOKE or DIET COKE (2-Liter) 
CRUST STYLES 
·:!li' 'l!lli•· 
THIN 
RAND· TOSSED 
PAN 
HOURS: SUn·TI'&Jr 11 am to Mldnlgrt Fn &Sat 11amto2 am 




Void at partdpotilg sloros cnty. Nat v.-ld wll1 lilY-a1!0t'. Plicel 1Mf Y<IY CUst(ITlll pays salts tax wlltrt appllc<Jtit 
Doltvtry artas lmlld to ..,,.., salt drlvilll OUr drtvtrs cony 1tos 11111 520.00. OUr drtvon en not ponolzed ICJ"Ia1t dtlwrios. 
NOTRE DAME 271-0300 • SAINT MARY'S 289-0033 
1993 Soull1 Btnd Pizza Corp., nc. lirl1t<l Tint onor. 

------~------~----­
Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA page? 
Fitting the Irish 
By George Dohrmann with photos by Jake Peters 
F()()TWEAR F<>R ALL FIELDS 
• Reebok sponsers Notre Dame and provides three types of shoes. The largest shoe is worn by freshman Melvin Dansby, a size 19 
GRASS ARTIFICIAL TURF RAIN OR SNOW 
Managers deal with more than JUSt equtpment 
I
t is difficult enough trying to find size 19 shoes for a freshman foot­ball player, or finding the exact pants a lineman wore last week, because he won't wear any others in a game. 
But these are just a few of the daily chores of Notre Dame equipment man­ager Chris Matlock and his staff. Matlock and his assistant, Brother John Campbell, work with a team of student managers equiping all Notre Dame sports for their respective seasons. 
Equiping the football team is the chief responsibility of Matlock and his staff during the fall, and it alone is a full-time responsibility. 
"We are the first ones here every day and the last ones to leave," said Matlock. 
Matlock, Cambell, and Chris Duba, the associate manager in charge of equip­ment, custom fit each Notre Dame play­er from head to toe. It's never as simple as asking a player for his shoe size, players must be equiped with the proper pads to avoid injury. 
"A lot of it comes down to player pref­
erences," said Matlock. "Some players 
have a type of shoe they may be com­
fortable with or type of equipment they 
prefer, but what comes first is safety." 
An additional aspect Matlock and his 
staff must deal with is superstitions. 
"Players have some weird rituals that 
they perform before games," Matlock 
said. "Some players have to wear a cer­
tain kind of sock, or the same socks 
from last week. Certain players will only 
wear the pants they have practiced in." 
They also have to account for a mar­
gin of error. 
"Players always forget something or 
the equipment will break during a game, 
and we have to be prepared for that," he 
said. 
For road games Matlock and his staff 
do not pack each individual player's 
equipment, but prepare trunks which 
hold replacements in case something 
breaks or is lost.They are also responsi­
ble for making sure that the visisting 
locker room where the Irish dress has 
all the necessary accomodations. 
While Matlock focuses on the long 
term effects on the equipment depart­
ment, such as ordering new equipment 
and changes in product manafacturers, 
the student managers do most of the 
day-to-day work. 
"I have never seen a better organiza­
tion than the student manager system 
here at Notre Dame," said Matlock. 
"They handle a lot of the work, and it 
frees me up to do the intangiables." 
But one thing Matlock can never get a 
handle on is the ever-changing desires 
of the players and coaches. 
"The most difficult part of this job is 
trying to anticipate everyone's needs," 
he said. "Everyone needs something, 
and it is our job to try and predict that 
before it becomes a problem." 
staff are responsible for each manager Chris Matlock 
N
otre Dame equipment 
piece of equipment issed to the detailed what it takes for 
Irish players. each Notre Dame football player 
A look at what shields a player to enter the field of play fully 
from injury, modeled here by protected. From the helmet to 
Notre Dame player Mark the hip pads, Matlock and his 
Monahan. 
OUTER PROTECTIVE 
PADDING 

shoulder 
pW \ 
pants 
under shirt 

tailpad rib pads hip pads elbow pads girdle neck rolls knee braces {practice only) travel sweats {nylon) athletic supporter practice sweats {cotton) mouthpiece t-shirts chin strap practice shorts gloves belt ankle braces pro socks (knee high) butterfly {shock absorbers thermals worn under shoulder pads) 
' \ ) ., l
socks J 
j 
'· 
~... 
\ 
' 

• Matlock and staff estimate that it takes roughly $1000 dollars to dre~s each Notre Dame player. That is a rough estimation totaling the price of the 28 pieces of equipment needed to dress an Irish play­er each Saturday during football season. 
size 






Soft rubber cleats Soft rubber soles, much like basketball shoes Hard rubber 1/2 inch spikes 
---------------------------------------------------------------~ -~-­
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA Friday, October 8, 1993 
Top spot on line as Miami, Florida State clash 
.... 




from Pitt-a-ful 
week 
Y
ou can't help 
but feel 
sympathy for Pitt. 
Here is a school that seems spiraling, towards Kent State status, but has to meet demands far higher than this team could ever George Dohrmann achieve. 

The ingenious L---------'1 theme for the season is "Back to Future." 
It was implied that with the return Johnny Majors, the Panthers woul return the glory of yesteryear. 
Not this year. The theme should have "Patience." 
It takes more than a new coach to it takes talent. And right now Panthers would have trouble mate up with St. Joseph High. 
But this is just a rebuilding year, Majors has a plan for the future. 
"If you'll just be patient for about years-although I'm not saying It'll ten years to be a winner-we'll have present back to the future," he said. 
i'm uui. reaiiy sure what that me nor am I sure Majors will be around years. 
Pitt will have its day, just not real soon. 
Isn't it a great story. 
I mean this Rudy comes out of no where and on desire achieves his dream of milki life story for fame and fortune. lnsp 
Rumor has it that no one football er attended the Rudy 
ednesday with the exception of Ruddy, who thought he was the character in the story. 
The Peerless Prognosticators took beating last week from the women's cer team. Coach Chris Petrucelli sophomore forward Michelle McC led the way, each picking nine of th eleven games correctly. 
Former associate sports editor Kubicki resigned after finding out th each member of the beat him by at least two games. 
Much has been made about Lou strawberry shake incident. Notre Dame coach always has two shakes befor each game, because he eats so little weekends that his blood sugar runs 
Against Stanford he forget to them, so during the fourth qua had a student manager run and get one. 
Insiders say he asked defensive nator Rick Minter to wipe of his pin mustache before heading across field shake Bill Walsh's hand. 
And finally, for all you fans looki ahead to Notre Dame's national champ onship possibilities. 
"I don't believe we're a very good ball team. We might be the best team South Bend, but I don't know. Penn awfully good." 
Penn would probably beat Pitt too. 
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
EDITOR: George Dorhmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan PRODUCTION: Kevin Hardman CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Bryan Connolly, Jonathan Jensen 
College football's biggest rivalry and this season's biggest game to date kicks off this Saturday. as the No. 3 Hurricanes travel up to Tallahassee to tangle with the No. 1 Seminoles. 
While Miami has had Florida State in a quandary the last two years, winning 17-16 and 19-16 after FSU missed two kicks wide­right, the Seminoles head into this year's game as a 12 1/2 point favorite. And despite the fact that Miami has won seven of the last eight meetings, the consensus is that this is the Seminoles' year. 
And why not? FSU is as complete a college football team as you will ever see, with no apparent weak­nesses. Running backs William Floyd and Sean Jackson are now being bolstered by youngsters Marquette Smith and Warrick Dunn to form a more-than adequate backfield. 
Signal-caller Charlie Ward has been about as good as he can be, running the Seminoles' high-pow­ered, no-huddle offense to near­perfection, while receivers Kevin Knox, Kez McCorvey and Tamarick Vanover are simply the best unit in the country. 
As far as the defense goes, the Seminoles are in good shape, to say the least. In case you haven't heard, all-everything linebacker Derrick Brooks is still outscoring FSU's opposition, 16-14. He has three interception returns for touch­downs, while Florida State has outscored its opponents a total of 228-14. 
The only Seminole weakness is the one area that Sports Illustrated touted as the factor that will put them over the top this season: kick­ing. Highly-touted freshman Scott Bentley has been lackluster so far this season, missing an amazing seven extra points in five games. 
So does Miami have a chance? 

Jonathan Jensen George Dohrmann Overall: 35-20 Overall: 34-21 Last Week: 8-3 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Florida State Florida State Louisville West Virginia Air Force Air Force 
Indiana Indiana Boston College Boston College Wisconsin Wisconsin Washington Washington 
usc usc 
Arizona State Arizona State Purdue Purdue 
~ 
i.l..
I 

Jason Kelly Bryan Connolly Overall: 34-21 Overall: 7-4 Last Week: 7-4 Last Week: 7-4 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Florida State Florida State West Virginia Louisville Air Force AirForce • 
Indiana Indiana Boston College Boston College Wisconsin Wisconsin Washington Washington Oregon Oregan 
Arizona State Washington State Purdue Purdue 
Game of Interest 
Miami always has a chance, with a stockpile of athletes on both sides of the ball. Tailback Donnell Bennett has been outstanding, but he is one of only two returning starters on offense. 
Still, quarterback Frank Costa has a load of game breakers behind him, including an underrated receiver named Jonathan Harris, and the defense can be compared favorably to Florida State's. 
Defensive backs Terris Harris and Dexter Seigler are big-play defend­ers, while linemen Darren Krein, Pat Riley and Kevin Patrick have helped fill the void that opened up when All-American Rusty Mederis was lost for the season with a blown-out knee. 
Miami's defense is too good to lay down against the Seminoles, and the Hurricanes are too cocky to get blown out. 
"I think we should be favored every game. I'd be a fool not to favor us," said Patrick, disgusted by the recent newspaper clippings touting the Seminoles. "We're being disrespected. What have we been doing all these years? All of a sud­den we're 13-point underdogs just because Florida State scored 50 or 60 points on teams that aren't even ranked in the top 20." 
Miami has beaten an outstanding Colorado team on the road, but Patrick forgets they gave up 38 points in that game, scored just 20 points against Virginia Tech, and could not pull away from Division 1­AA Georgia Southern last week. 
But don't forget that FSU was favored over Miami in 1988, '89, and '91, but lost two of those games, and the last time Miami was a double-digit underdog was against Nebraska in the Orange Bowl in 1983. Miami upset the sup­posedly unbeatable Cornhuskers to claim their first national champi­onship. An omen? 
You figure it out. 


1013 
1. Florida 2. 
3. Miami 
4.1111re 
5. Florida 

6. 
Ohio State 

7. 
Nebraska 

8. 
Penn State 

9. 
Michigan 

10. 
Oklahoma 

11. 
Tennessee 

12. 
Arizona 



13. 

14. TexasA&M ' \ 3-1-Q
15. 
North Carolina 'ls-1-o 

16. 
California 


17. 
Louisville · 

18. 
Virginia •' ~ 

19. 
Brigham Young 


POINTS 
1548 
1473 
1407 1368 1285 1203 1140 1091 1040 989 948 
914 
746 742 
584 
5n 
553 460 455 
9126 
1 
2 3 4 
5 7 
6 
9 
8 10 
11 
12 
15 
14 16 17 18 
21 
20 

20. 
Colorado ~-P"" 394 19 21. Wisconsin 380 22 22.Aubum 258 23 23. Syracuse 214 13 24. 209 25 25. UCLA 52 
Others Oregon 20, Fresno State 18, Boston College 15, Kansas Stale 12, Indiana 8, Kentucky 3, Michigan State 3, North Carolina State State 2, Rutgers 2, --2, Army 1, 
Oklahoma 


The Observer/Brendan Regan 


women's soccer team last week, the Observer Sports staff tries its hand against the Newscenter 16 On-Air Staff. We've moved on to older prey. 
SportsDepartiDent 
Last week: 35-20 
vs 
Newscenter 16's On-Air Staff 
Last week's guests: 40-15 
Pittsburgh at #4 Notre Dame #3 Miami at #1 Florida State #17 Louisville at #24 W. Virginia Air Force at Navy Iowa at Indiana Boston College at Rutgers Northwestern at #21 Wisconsin #13 Washington at #16 Cal USC at Oregon Arizona St. at Washington St. Purdue at Minnesota 
Jeff Jeffers Sportscaster 
Notre Dame Florida State West Virginia Air Force Indiana Boston College Wisconsin California 
usc 

Arizona State Purdue 
Dick Addis Meteorologist 
Notre Dame Miami Louisville Air Force Indiana Rutgers Wisconsin California 
usc 
Arizona State Minnesota 


Mike Collins News Anchor 
Notre Dame Florida State Louisville Navy Iowa Boston College Wisconsin California 
usc 

Arizona State Minnesota 
Maureen McFadden News Anchor 
Notre Dame Florida State Louisville Navy Indiana Boston College Wisconsin California 
usc 
Washington State Purdue 

----··-··"· ------·-.--· ......... 
' 


Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 13 

Extending Rom&to 

Community-The cornerstone upon~)vhich the ~on o'! Notre Dame has built it's reputation ~h:t·!.~•bMol1Je th%'cfocal poiJ.l:~ of the Irish Porn Pon squad for the la.St~-years. _· •-• · .· ..•, 
"Being part of the squad involves {}lore. than sup@rting thet! school. It also means capturing the spirit of Notre-'Dame an 
delivering that spirit to the community." remarked Stac Tischler senior and co-captain ofthesqllad. . :••·f,, 
The squad was fortunate enough l!i)~aveLtoDallM~}Iexa.s last season's bowl game even though)he Universl~M:~xplai that there would be enough student gfuups representing No Dame. However, thanks to the help or a, few Notre Dame alumni~ in Dallas, the girls had a successful rtiffie which pl:~ded ade:.c~ quate funding for the trip. . • ~-. . ;•F-• ... ...•~:; . Mter the Notre Dame's victory OVt?(~i~e':gas A&M~:~·~h~ :mor~~ mg of January 2, members of the squa;c.lYI.sited a loeaLchddren~ hospital. The three hours that were spent there inCluded a per-'~ formance and ample recreation time that allowed'the girls to1 sign autographs and play with the residing children. ··-~ 
Also while in Dallas, the squad performed at a nearby nursin~J home where they handed out balloons to the elderly., ..;~ 
Presently, the girls are patiently awaiting clearance from the] University to participate in this season's bowifestivities,fi Unfortunately, the likelihood of their attendance does not look" promising. . .. . By JAMES GIROUX leaders, as veterans do not the Notre Dame spirit, and then 
Nevertheless, the squad has continued their community ser-• ., Accent Writer retain their spots automatically. cheered on the Irish to victoryvice this year by planning an annual Christmas performance fori Try-outs begin with a three at the game. the disabled at the Logan Center. An informal hour of auto/ Fans of Notre Dame, espe­week training period to learn Cheering requires tremen­graphs and socializing will follow their routine. . . · the student body, maneuvers and dance steps, dous energy. ..After the pep
cially are
For the past four years, the girls have traditionally performed ­
acclaimed to be the most en­and ends with impromptu per­rallies and game, I am totally 
at a banquet for the Crying Towels Charity which diSperses the formances and an interview exhausted. Hollering at the
thusiastic, loyal fans in college
proceeds from this event to other various funds that are in need sport. This praise seems to add (which counts for 40%) before top of your lungs and jumpingof donations. Alumni from Notre Dame; University of Michigan, a panel of judges. and hounding is real work,"
fuel to the fire burning in the 
and Michigan Sta~~. pur:~ll.a~e tic\cets to attend the dinner in. an hearts of the fans, motivating "The selections process re­explained Durso. 
effort to support the charity. · · · · them to yell, clap and whistle quires us to demonstrate we Notre Dame's cheerleaders 
..Our main goals are to entertain and to provide for all people, all the louder. can cheer with spontaneity and are ambassadors of goodwill not just the Notre Dame community, in any way we can;"~ enthusiasm, as well as demon­"We must
Still, the volume and passion for the University.
expressed Shloe King, current member ofthe Porn Pon squad. '·~ of thousands of individual voic­strate that we can interact be mindful that fans are Unfortunately, much of their efforts go unnoticed and their;t courteously with fans," said our every move.

es could not have the effect of watching
performances are often taken for granted. For the past two years"' the unified, directed voice that junior cheerleader Jennifer When we talk with them we the squad has only been allowed to perform at half-time during Durso. how pleased
"shakes down the thunder". want to convey 
one football game. This year the girls are not sure if they will he; The energy of Notre Dame's The cheerleaders practice we are to represent Notre granted this opportunity. . . .• fans is turned-on, catalyzed together 2 hours per day for 4 Dame and be of service to them ..We enjoy performing for the school and all wh() Visit but it isl and directed to the target by days per week, as well as work in this way," added Pinkley. frustrating because so few are aware of the hard work and time· out 2 times per week in super­"I am continually astonished
Notre Dame's cheerleaders. 
we put in everyday," commented senior and co-captain Natalie •­Notre Dame traditionally has vised sessions at Loftus . "Most by the way fans will respond to 
Brohl. had male cheerleaders, but of the group members cheered the squad," Durso said. At the 
Although the girls have not achieved Varsity status they prac-~ females from Saint Mary's in high school or were in gym­premiere of "Rudy"tice for at least two hours a day from; Sunday through Thursday.~ nastics or dance, "said junior Wednesday, some fans re·­
joined that group beginning in
In an effort to display their hard work, the poJl}s provide ~ the late 1960's. Since women cheerleader Rebecca Pinkley. quested that we sign a card for pre-game routine in front of the bookstore and J9}'ce Athletic! Besides cheering during the a woman who is battling can­
first were admitted to the
Convocation Center (J.A.C.C.) and return to the J.A:.C.C. for a~ University beginning in 1972, football season and at all the cer and is a Notre Dame fan. post-game showing. . . .,, the female cheerleaders have home basketball games, the That sort of interaction with the 
"All of the choreography and coaching is done by the girls and,; included both Notre Dame and squad also leads spirited pep fans reminds me that Notre 
Natalie and me. Our only advising comes from D'Juan Franciscg~ rallies at home and away foot­Dame means so much to so
Saint Mary's . 
and Frances Shavers who help us get our events approved by tite~ The 1993 Notre Dame ball games. "Notre Dame has many people. " Alumni Association." explained Tischler. · · ·•<~ Cheerleading Squad includes tremendous turn-out of fans at Many times we hear de­
In the past, the Porn Pon try-outs attracted approxiritately 50° seven men and seven women all of the away games," said scriptions of how the football hopeful participants. This season there was over 12-() competing;' senior cheerleader Clement players feel when they take the
who cheer together in pairs.girls. . . . . .. __ --.~ Squad members are chosen Yoo. field for Notre Dame. For the 
"I think that we are definitely making progress·iil_some ways,;. The cheerleading squad cheerleaders, the euphoric
through a four-week tryout
but we are limited by the .few performance opportunities we are'\ process that takes place in traveled to Stanford last week excitement is much the same. granted," said Brohl. 1 February and March. where they performed a pep "It's such a rush when we stand Prospective members begin on rally both Friday night and in the tunnel and lead the team equal-footing as veteran cheer-Saturday morning to pump up out sprinting about 90 yards with the fans cheering wildly," Yoo said. "I feel if I died just at that moment, I'd go straight to
Irish Guard leads the band once again 
heaven." Football is played in all types
By ELISABETH HEARD least 6' 2". and are judged, by members are: McCoyd, J.J. school's blue and gold with an 
of weather, of course. Notre 
on spirit and Irish green, forming the "Notre
Assistant Accent Editor the directors, Kochman, Mike Decker, Sam Dame fans will withstand wind 
marching ability. This year, Rauch, Tim Regan, Dan Dame plaid." 
and rain and snow to watch 
They have returned. The there were twenty people trying McCarthy, and Alex This year, the Irish Guard their team. However, since organization which the out for seven spots, down from Andreichuk. members are determined not to there is no such thing as a University disbanded last year the previous year of forty peo­The Irish Guard was estab­mimic the events of the past. foul-weather cheerleader's uni­because of certain practices has ple for five spots. lished in 1949, and were known "There won't be a repeat of last form, the squad has to suffer once again donned their kilts "It (the competition) was pret­as the Irish Pipers. For the first year," said McCoyd. through and make due. and entered the field. ty hard," said Pat McCoyd, two years they played the bag­"All eyes are on us. Everyone "The past two years the 
The Irish Guard, which re­senior, and new Irish Guard pipes, but that practice was is waiting for us to mess up," weather was cold and rainy for ceived negative coverage in the member. "We had to learn the halted because the bad weather said Kempf. "But it was worth the Purdue game. We all got past, has been allowed to march out, the basic routine, froze the reed on the instru­it. It was worth coming back." drenched and frozen, but we reform. "There was a lot of and the trot." ments. In 1951, they began With this new attitude, the just keep leading cheers and pressure (this year) to look "They are all doing really marching with the band and future looks bright for the smiling,"said Durso. good," said William Kempf, good. They are a great group are now known as the "preci­Guard. "I don't see any pos­"What though the odds," and senior, and captain of the Irish of guys," said Kempf. ..If I had sion marching unit." sible reason to end it unless whatever the weather, Notre Guard. "It was harder because daughters, these are the kind of When dressed in full uniform, someone decides they don't Dame's cheerleaders will never there was a lot more attention guys I'd want them to date." each member towers over eight want it any more," said Kempf. have damp spirits. They will on us." This year's Irish Guard con­feet tall, including the bearskin "I think that it will last a long continue to aid Notre Dame 
The Irish Guard held audi­sists of three returning mem­shako. The colors of the Irish time, at least another 100 "onward to Victory." 
tions a week before the start of bers: Kempf, Dan Thuente, and Guard's kilts are significant to years." school. Members must be at Brad Metz. The seven new Notre Dame, intertwining the 


page 14 
The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, October 8, 1993 
"Chewing the rag" proves to be beneficial at times 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od 

Lately, I see signs and notice saying, "Can We Talk?", signed "McDermott." Late night televi­sion has become the no-man's­land for battling chat-show hosts, but they're merely talk­ing-heads compared to Fr. Tom McDermott, who believes that chewing the rag is the best way of getting to the bottom of half that ails us, and on top of the other half; so if we keep on nattering long enough, we should get a handle on every­thing. 
Tom, to his credit, did not invent the idea of on-going di­alogue as an art-form for sur­vival in an age of anxiety. Dangling conversations had their heyday at Notre Dame a generation ago, after the women first came; and they were coached by our guru-in­residence, Morton Kelsey, a Jungian analyst, who had the Smart Set clutching notebooks in which they jotted down their dreams. Dreams. Kelsey said solemnly, were God's other lan­guage 
We might eventually have talked ourselves to death if Kelsey hadn't left the University. With a sigh of relief, we found our way back to the other side of silence, which was like the "pause in the day's occupation!fhat is known as the Children's Hour." Now we have my matchless friend Tom, whom I love dearly. He can always see the patch of the blue or the stars coming out, after rain. He could have Jack-the­Ripper feeling good about him­self after date-rape; and he seems incapable of burn-out. Faulkner has foreseen that at the last syllable of recorded Dorothy were inspired by her example as a great Christi Were any of them ever inspired by her example as a great Catholic who may have loved the Eucharist more than most priest love it? Priests are told when they're ordained not to be overscrupulous about particles from the Communion wafers that are lost to sight. The advice was: "Leave something for the angels." Did Dorothy feel that the angels might be scandalized to find too much of a good thing being trodden under foot after Berrigan's Mass? 

Tom McDermott's father once attended an Urchins Mass I said in the K.-S. chapel. We were using Eucharist bread that the mothers had baked; it tended to fall apart when you touched it. Dr. McDermott said at the end of Mass: "I have gone to Communion three times from t he broken-ofT bread I picked up from the floor." His gentle rebuke left me sick to my stom­ach with embarrassment and shame. The next Sunday, we went back to the plastic hosts the Sisters used to make. It was harder to believe that they were actually bread than that at the Consecration, they had become the Body of Christ. 
Attention must be paid to priests who leave. Often, ter­rible things have happened to them. Often terrible things hap­pen to priests who stay. But the commitment of priests who stay must be celebrated at least as much as the pain of priests who leave; without the we would not have the Eucharist, or the cele­bration of Mass, which, we were told as seminarians, is the heartbeat of the Church. 
How about the pain of women, who are refused or­dination? I think the pain they feel the pain must be like the pain I feel when I have to tell an old man dying of cancer that I am not a healer. and cannot lay my hand on him and deliver him from pain. When the pre­sent Pope landed in England on a pastoral visit, the sick were waiting for him, to ask his blessing. He had to tell them, "I am not a healer,"and he must have sensed the disappointment of the dying whom he could not help. Nobody can say for cer­tain that the Church will never ordain women in the next thousand years. But if I should live to be a thousand, I haven't the prayer of a chance of becoming a healer. 
Is the Mass now under attack by women demanding the right to say Mass as a fringe benefit of their birth-right as Catholics? Is the Mass on trial for its politi­cal incorrectness with its sexist language and the underlying assumption that the celebrant will be male? If you're in the mood to tear the Church down brick by brick, you should start by bloodlessly trying to dimin­ish the worth of the Mass, just as Luther did when he called the Mass "the greatest blasphe­my of God, and the highest idol­atry upon earth... " And how greatly would the Mass be diminished as a memorial of Christ's sacrifice, if it were demythologized to the level of a Protestant sacrament lacking the Real Presence? 
Do you want to talk, Tom? Assure me this kind of thing could not happen at Catholic Notre Dame. 
time before the crack of doom and the start of the nuclear winter, man will still be heard talking. That man, speaking his last piece to the everlasting hills, could be Tom McDermott, if Campus Ministry doesn't help him slow down. 
So does Tom McDermott want to talk? Let him talk to me, but not just after lunch at Coach's, and not about whether there is pie-in-the-sky after male menopause. The continuing conversation I'd like to hear from young Father McDermott, palavering with bright students who care, is on why everyone is saying these terrible things about the Church in which he and I were ordained. I don't have in mind a discussion on the Catholic character of Notre Dame. Monk has a task-force to talk about that. I'd like to hear students, living at the grass­roots level of the Emerald City, say whether they would mind seeing their Church go belly-up because of a lack of vocations. 
Recently, a lad told me how he had discovered the poor, who are always with us, while helping out at a Catholic Worker House this summer. Now he's trying to make up his mind how he can spend his life serving the poor. I asked if he was considering the priesthood, having in mind a community of Franciscans in love with Lady Poverty who run hospices for the homeless. He said he liked the idea of himself married and raising a family. I explained that priests also like the idea of themselves married, raising a family, and that the tradeoff that the Church required of them wasn't intended to be easy. Where did undergradu­ates get the idea that having a vocation meant that emotional­ly you turn into an ice palace? 
I was sorry that I hadn't remembered to tell him about Dorothy Day, who lived for so many years at the Catholic Worker House on Manhattan's skid row as a witness to poverty loving Christ's poor even when she had no illusions about them. She told me once: "At the beginning of the month when the men first receive their wel­fare checks, nobody shows up for the soupline. But after a week, when they've spent every last dime, they start coming back again." The men fed in her soupline tended to be winos who would have died in the streets if it hadn't been for the Worker. Dorothy was never beautiful than on the day she went down on her knees, gath­ering up crumbs from the Eucharist which had fallen on the floor when the great Father Dan Berrigan, S.J., celebrated Mass at the Worker. All the lads and lassies who ever met 
The Notre Dame Club of Minnesota introduces an Exclusive Pencil Drawing to Benefit its Scholarship Fund 
Limited Edition Print A.' ..  Framed Diploma Holder fht Jbslbtnt. lna•lns anb Jiuulll!.,,... I• 1U t1 lllk•• tl1i1 '"''at h••••'&t -! ,..... ''"t,•s• (krnJIIIkllll!iulrtlfla .. INidktD.I.Ita.. a.t.,.llrhliiiR •••.a....tU...I  

Quantity  Packaging &. Shipping  Total Price  Ship to:  
11" x 14" Print  ....$28 ...  X ($28)  +  $4  $  TO ORDER: Send the completed Order Form along  
11" x 14" Matted & Framed Print (approx. si:c 15"' .< 18'")  .. $68 ...  X ($68)  +  $8  $  with a check payable to The Notre Dame Club of Minnesota Scholarship Fund to the address shown below:  
Framed Diploma Holder .  ....$88 ...  X ($88)  +  $8  $  
(approx. size 15 ·· x 21 ")  The Notre Dame Club of Minnesota  
19" x 23" Limited Edition Print  ..$60 ..  X ($60)  +  $6  $  c/o Tom Novitzki 908 Jefferson Lane  
19" x 23" Matted&. Framed Print  ......$170 ... .  X ($170)  +  $12  $  Eagan, Minnesota 5 5123-1998  
(approx. <.:e 21" x Z'l")  Please nllow '-4 weeks for delivcrv. Shippmg via CPS m conuncntal U.S. only. Ttm brochure and all nrtll'nrk illustrntiom ore ('Op~·rightcd  
TOTAL $  byrhe;mist.  

-~-----~~~-......-----------~~---------­
Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer. CLASSIFIEDS page U 
,_ 

The Observer accepts dassifieds c=vc:ry bu.iness day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar Collegt Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. Th.
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per cbaracter per day, including all spaces. 
$700/wk cannery workers;  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  PLEASE!! I I NEED FSU STU TIX.  Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks  
NOTICES  $4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish­ing industry now hiring for next  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  CALL JOE @ X1613  THERESA X2756  Matt 232-3870  
summer. 11 ,000 openings. No exp.  days includes12 meals $279!  Need2USCGA  FOR SALE: 2 PITT GA's  
Typing  necessary. Free rm. & bd. These  Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889  Max x1088  50 YARD LINE  
287-4082  jobs go fast! Employment Alaska. 1­ Cancun from Chicago $439,  {MARK)  call and make an offer  
206-323-2672  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$  marianne 273-1420  
Professional Typing  West $239, Day1ona Room w/  Pitt Stu. Tckt.  
Dissertations, Term Papers  NEEDED: Artist for commercial pro­ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386  Best Offer  I need 4 Pitt GAs. Call Joan at  I NEED PITT GA'SIII  
Reasonable Rates  ject. Newspaper ads, b/w drawings.  Manuel 4-0505  (618) 288-3502 after 4 p.m. or  CALL KATHLEEN 273-8562  
277-7406  Great resume experience! The  DEPENDABLE 1986 PLYMOUTH  (618) 656-0057 ext. 253 before$.  
Works Bar & Grill 501 N Niles Ave  DUSTER CALL HOLLY 271-8940  WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  237-9757  $Need Pitt GAs$  412-352-3216  
CALL 259-8684.  SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  Angie 273-5805  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  
RELIABLE AND HARD WORKING  SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  Desperate lifelong ND fan needs  
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS:  INDIVIDUALS NEEDED TO MAKE  CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND  I need 2 Pitt tix either GA's or stu­ two Florida State/NO GA's. Will pay  
LONDON MAY 18-JUNE 19.  EXTRA CASH SELLING UNIVER­ VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S.  dent.....  top dollar! Call1-407-788-1582  
CLASSES IN  SITY RELATED  NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  MUST HAVE!I CALL 272-7233.  after5pm.  
ART,BIO,BUEC,HIST,SOC-TRAV­ T-SHIRTS. APPLY AT:  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  Call Andy at 634-2706  
EL  LINDA'S FLOWER MARKET  284-5062  FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES.  $$$ NEED TO UNLOAD 4 FSU  
IRELAND,SCOT,ENG,FRANCE.  1635 EDISON ROAD  277-1659.  #$$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  GA'S ASAP! CALL BEN OR PETE  
ROME-JUNE 12-JULY 11 TRAVEL  272-0902.  84 VW Rabbit 4-sale by generous  ANYTIME AT X 3248$$$  
INFRA, SWITZ,GER,ITALY­ local alum call 273-4868  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC &  Need 4 USC GA's  
CLASSES IN  Attention -ACDC Students. Part  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  Call Jeff x2000  4 SALE PITT TIX CALL MATT 1926  
LIT,ITALIAN,HIST,SOC. MEETING  time baby sitter needed for 5 month  87 Chevy Cavalier 4 sp. 4 cyl.  
OCT 11 , 6:30 PM CARROLL  old and 4 yr old. $5.50 per hr.  $2900 or b.o. 293-6787  Have 2 USC GAs, need 2 FSU GAs  
HALL(SMC).  Must have own transportation. Call  PITT,USC,FSU,BC STUD TIX FOR  pis call Pat634-3281  Need 2 USC GA  
Lea 272-5029.  ONE WAY TICKET TO  SALE X2975. LVE MESS. AND  Will buy or  
SAN ANTONIO  BEST OFFER  trade BC and FSU stud's  
NEED SOME EXTRA CASH????  MAGICIANS-willing to donate 1/2  GOING THROUGH CINCINNATI  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DES!  Chi-Chi 1200  
hour of time to entertain disadvan­ AND ATLANTA  
Adworks needs distributors to hang  taged children on 10/16 from 9-1 :30  LEAVES THE EVENING OF  Need 1 BC stud. tick!.  URGENT!II  
posters around campus. Many  call4-2131  OCT 22  Heidi 273-2661 $$$$  I need 1 stud. ticket for Pitt.  HELP! Want to trade my pair of  
routes available and hours are very  CALL X 1316  Call Pat X2066. God bless.  Billy Joeltixs for Fri. 11-19 for yours  
flexible. Call Dave Brower atl- SPRING BREAK '94 -SELL TRIPS,  Help! Need 3 Pitt GAs  on Tues. 11-16?Call MISSY  
6757 for more information.  EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!  Katie 273-6324 $$$$  X3719.  
Student Travel Services is now hir­ ONE WAY TICKET TO  For Sale:  
ing campus reps.  SAN ANTONIO GOING  Helpll I need 1 Pitt. ticket!  
Caii1-B00-648-4849.  THROUGH CINCINNATI  I need PITT GA's Please HELP!  ENTIRE BOOK OF STUDENT TIX  Call Jackie at2507.  
############################  AND ATLANTA  4-1103Greg  
Need a quiet place to study? We  LEAVES THE EVENING OF  leave name, # , offer at 273-4038  
NEED A D.J.???  need babysitters for some  OCT 22 CALL X 1316  We will purchase at handsome  Please help mel  
Call Adworks for professional DJ's!  evenings and weekends for our 4 yr  price four seats together for the  
Our rates are among the lowest on  old. We have a quiet apartment at  Florida State game. Pis. call (800)  Need 1 Florida State student ticket.  
campus! ADWORKS-1-6757.  Castle Point. Call 273-2528 LM.  457-0486.  
'79 NISSAN/DATSUN 210,4 DR.,  Call Colleen at 273-5901.  
############################  AGGRESSIVE STUDENT  ST. WGN., LOW MILES, RUNS  Will trade USC student ticket for a  Have 2 Pitt, 2 USC to trade for Fl  
$10-$20-$30 PER HR.  GOOD, GOOD TIRES. $750.  Pitt student ticket. Please call Mike  ST or sell. 271-5618  
SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS  UNIQUE ON -CAMPUS OPPOR­ 232-7454.  at273-2059.  I Need Pitt GA'sll Call Steve 1217.  
VOLUNTEER OCT. 12 AT THE  TUNITY  Need 1 Pitt GA, Chris at 273-6588  
EL CAMPITO DAY CARE  HELP BUY TEXTBOOKS  AIRLINE TICKET, FALL BREAK  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  I HAVE 2 PITT GA's, NEED 2 USC  
MEET AT 2:45 AT MAIN CIRCLE  RECEIVE CASH AND PROFIT  ONE-WAY TWA. M or F, So. Bend  STATE GA's Pis call {916)558-6566  GA's.  
COMPLETE TRAINING  to Albuquerque via St. Louis.  Need 1 Pitt & 3 USC GA's  WILL SWAP  
MUST HAVE CAR  Lvs. Fri. Oct. 22, $100.  3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­ Call Katie x1120  OR SELL FOR CASH.  
Need Business Cards?  FOR FURTHER INFO CALL 219­ Chris x4107.  9309  JEFF 273-4119  
-call Adworks 1-6756  489-7154 ON 10-7 & 10-11  
LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY!I  5:00 TO 8:00P.M.  I have Xtra Depeche Mode tix for  MUST SELL 4 FLORIDA ST. TIX.  Need 2 GAs for PITT and FSU  
Oct28 or 29,Chicago. 259-0219  BEST OFFER. FAX {808)244-0156  Will PAY$$$$$ Call Matt 1060  For Sale:  
Leo Burnett advertising presenta­ We need a Kegirator. Interested in  4 usc  
tion. Tuesday, Oct. 12  selling us one. Please give us a  Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers.  4 FSU  
7 pm at the University Club  call. 234-2793  SELLING FSU & BC TICKETS  Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  2BC  
All majors welcomell  Lisa 232-4112  (404)396-8715.  FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097  Best offer ...Marty 4-1521  
Anybody going to NJ over break? I  
need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls,  1982 TOYOTA CELICA GT, 5  I NEED 1 BC GA FOR MY MOM  Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC  2 FLA GA'S FOR SALE  
ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS  etc. Call Elaine x2342  SPD., $1 ,500 -VERY NEGO­ WHO'S COMING FROM WASH. II  Call232-7316 from 7-8 pm.  best offer KATIE X3782  
BANDS!I BATTLE OF THE  TIABLE!!! CALL 271-1866  BETH-x3620  
BANDS OCT. 14 ON FIELD  2 NOTRE DAME VS. BYU FOOT­ 
HOUSE MALL. CALL RICH X­ --ROOMATE WANTED­ PLEASE HELP! I NEED 1 GA OR  BALL TICKETS FOR SALE  FOR SALE: 2 GA's for:  
43262 TO SIGN UP. ILOST & FOUND I  FOR SPRING SEMESTER '94 @TURTLE CREEK, 5 MIN. FROM CAMPUS-CALL ED@273-9581  TICKETS I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  STUDENT TICKET FOR USC. CALL KELLY @4270 HELPII! Need 10tickets, yes 10  BEST OFFER. On 15 yard line, row 15. Call Dave in Utah at 801-373-2931 after 8pm EST.  USC, FSU, BC-277-8017 leave number and offer NEED 4 USC GA'S  
TIXS.272-6306  tickets, so my Florida family can  CALL DAN x3402  
I need a ride to and from DC  see ND beat FSU.  4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC  
Lost: Copy Card. Left on the sec­ leaving before USC. Call1293.  Please call Kevin at 4-2265  2 FSU GAs x1850  For Sale: 4 Tickets for the BYU v.  
ond floor at noon on Sept. 30. Says  DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ Notre Dame game. Tickets are  
"Fraser". Please return to library  WANTED: LOCAL REALTOR  ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call:  I NEED 1 STUD TICKET FOR PITT  together, 4th row, approx. 25 yard  
Lost and Found.  SEEKING HOSTESSES TO  A. Raczkowski  -NEED 2 USC GAs­ LISA X2569!  line. Will take best offer as of  
HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES.  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  Help me PLEASE. ... If you have  10/13/93. Call (801 )379-3051  
LOST: J-Crew Barn Jacket (Olive  FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2-4  with jobs -will pay big $$$!  tickets, know someone who has  WANTED: 3 USC GA'S  
green) btw. 9-22 & 9-27. Please  HOURS PER DAY, VARIOUS  tickets, or think you might POSSI­ CALL LIZ X1912  NEED 6 GAs to ND vs. USC  
contact Mike @x1166  DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE  FSU TIX NEEDED!!!!!!!!  BLY get tickets somehow, some­ PLEASE call (517)347-8744 ASAP!  - 
AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  where, then please call Tara at  
REALTY 282-2351.9-5 MON-FRI  PLEASE!!  #4975!!!!  NEED GA FOR PITT CALL  
LOST ND class ring with full name  X261911  2 Notre Dame-BYU tickets 4 sell 40  
on it lost 9/25 Purdue weekend in SORIN 1ST floor or basement  FOR RENT  ND vs USC -Need tickets for 10/23 game.Chris Marks  Will trade 2 BC for 2 USC. Call Sean @ 271-7704  STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE  yrd line call Lance@ (801)375­9264 6-7:30am or 6-11pm MST  
REWARD $$150 $100 if you know  800-523-3139.  232-0253  
of whereabouts-no names or  ROOMS AVAIL IN PRIVATE  Need 2 USC GA's  I need 4 USC GAs. Can pay big  
questions asked PLEASE call Ryan  HOME FOR FOOTBALL WKNDS.  I NEED PITT TICKETS, GA PREF­ Will pay $100 ea  NEED FSU TIC-WILL TRADE USC  $$$. call JP x4-3073.  
at 634-2290 or room 105, 103 SORIN THANK YOU  OVER AGE 30 PREF. NIGEL Y DECOR. 277-8340  ER ED call Tim at x1225  x1868  AND/OR BC ST TIX. CALL DENISE x4879  *********HELP*********  
Alumni needs 3 tickets for USC  TRADE TICKETS:  Dad coming from California  
LOST: blue London Fog jacket with  Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ game will pay $ Call Skip collect @  4 BYU FOR 4 USC.  ***GORGEOUS GAL......................  DREAM to see ND game. NEED  ....  
liner, around Oct. 1. Call Eric at3376. LOST: Black Eastpak backpack  Private. 257-9101 LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  (602) 998-7576 NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ CALL BOB (818) 793-9254. DESPERATELY NEED ND -USC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  I REALLY NEED 2 USC GA'S PLEASE CALL ELIZA AT X:2703 ************GORGEOUS GAL******  PITT GA! 284-5442 PERSONAL 1  
containing my "life" (i.e. computer  SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  8826 AFTER 5 PM  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  I NEED FLORIDA ST. TIX  
disks, books. loafers) Last seen  CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ STUDSorGA- 
SOH. Please return. I NEED MY  PUS $225. M0.272-6306  PITT AND USC GA s  SWM still in need. Sell me your  call Tim x1230  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ 
STUFF!II Reward offered. x4944  WANTED FOR RICH  PITT GA's or Stud Tix. Call Jim at  agement and security to the pre­ 
ROOMS FOR RENT, FURN,NEAR  ALUMNI $$$232-1348  287-0889  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
FOUND: MULTI-STRAND BLUE  CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW.272-6306  ***HEY DOMERS***  time mom and loving dad; married  
BEADED FISHHOOK EARRING AROUND THE LAKES. CALL  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT. CALL JIM @ 289-6648.  Please help my little bro see his first ND game. I need 1 GA/STUD for  12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please  ...  
ANNE 284-5212.  NEED A WEEKEND ROOM?  PITT! Don't make him watch the  call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­ 
Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  NEED ANY BC TIX  game on my TV!II  8195.  
WANTED  Guest rooms at the 3 PANSIES. 10 mins. from ND.  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA  HAVE USC STUD TIX PETE:237 -Q659  call TIM x1786  Let us take the worry out of your  
(219) 271-0459.  STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  decision. Call to learn about us, the  
Bedrooms-dbl. bed, TV, phone.  GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  Will give FSU Stu. Tix. or$ for 2  love we have to share, and the life  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Social room -I g. screen TV.  GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ to FLORIDA ST $$$.  Pitt. G.A.'s. CALL x4875  we would like to provide for your  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  Snack area-refrig., microwave,  1429  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  baby. Strictly legal. Confidential.  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the  coffee pot, snacks & soft drinks fur­ Call Sylvia and Ben. 1 (BOO) 579­ -..  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  nished.  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  7207  
Career employment available. No  Continental breakfast.  Adm. only.  Call Frank or John  +  
experience necessary. For more  Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162,  1-800-7 49-5975  
information call 1-206-634-0468  (W) 201-992-8700  Will trade DISNEY tickets  PITT. GA'S FOR SALE  Sophomores!!!  
ext.C5584  FOR SALE  Need 2 GAs for any home game  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2  BEST OFFER CALL JOHN 277-4953  Consider a life of patient love from  
Call Tim at273-1757  FSU GA'S. BILL614-885-4616.  Mom. financial security from Dad,  
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  laughter and music in a country  
BRUNO'S NEEDS Drivers!ll! PT for Campus Deliveries. Call John 288-3320  Orange County to Chicago 10/21 Chicago to Orange County 1 0/24 Only $333/each round trip  I have 2 BC GAs and 1 BC stud.  NEED 2 USC GA'S KEVIN X1215  +++ I NEED A PITT TICKET­ home for your baby. Please call Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 any1ime.  
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643 x1515 all hours  need 2 FSU tix (GAs or studs). Call Theresa before 10pm at x4312.  I NEED 3-4 USC GA'S X1781  G.A. OR STUD!!! CALL TRACEY x1346  see CLASSIFIEDS I page 16  


Friday, October 8, 1993
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
... 
Classifieds Boilermakers vs.Wildcats battle of the basement 
continued from page 15 
National Coming Out Day is Monday, October 11. Take your next stepl 
glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556 
Love is blind. glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING MONDAY 1 0/11 7:30pm 107 LA FORTUNE 
SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your high school over break as SMC rep? Sign up­Admission Office. Mandatory meeting 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associat~d Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Purdue has been rebuilding since 1984, when Jim Colletto was offensive coordinator and Jim Everett was quarterback. 
Minnesota's rebuilding phase goes back to 1967. when Jim Wacker was an assistant at Concordia College of Nebraska and four years before current quarterback Scott Eckers was born. 
Colletto is now coach at Purdue and Wacker is now at Minnesota. Both coaches say Saturday's game between their teams is important even though each has won only one game you'd like it to," he said. "The good news is, we·re not very far away from being a good team. I really believe that. You change a play here and a play there and we're 3-2 and feeling pret­ty dang good about ourselves going into Purdue." 
The Gophers played poorly against Indiana until Eckers replaced an ineffective Tim Schade. They almost rallied to win before losing 23-19. 
Purdue went 4-7 in each of Colletto's first two seasons and is 1-3 overall and 0-1 in the conlerence this year after play­ing poorly in last week's 28-10 loss to Illinois. 
"We need to win some games that maybe we aren't supposed 
"When I left. we were pretty good," said Colletto, an assis­tant at Arizona State and Ohio State before returning to Purdue in 1991. "We almost got to the Rose Bowl in 1984. But for some reason, it deterio­rated ... to a point where the total conlidence within the pro­gram and the players was com­pletely shot. 
"To try to restructure that. you have to recruit yourseH out of it and let players grow up. When you recruit classes of 15 or 20 players and a lvt of them redshirt. you're talking about three years before you feel the impact of the first good recruit­ing class. So it's a long road back. a trying time for fans and coaches alike." 
Wacker agrees that there are no quick fixes. 
"You've got to keep plug· ging," he said. "All of a sudden. you've got to win some games you're not supposed to win. You do it a couple of weeks in a row, the kids start believing. Once you start thinking you·re pretty good, you play better, good things happen and you get on a roll. 
"We need that to happen to this football program. It hasn't happened yet, I guarantee you that." 
Thurs. Oct21 5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge. 
SENIORSII II CELEBRATE COLUMBUS DAY WITH THE KIDS AT EL CAMPITO DAY CARE. TUES. OCT. 12­MEET AT MAIN CIRCLE AT 2:45 
Deadline extension for registration for Fall break seminar trip (1 credit) to l'Arche communities for disabled persons In Toronto. Contact Brother Bonaventure Scully at1-7353 
THE LAW SCHOOL CARAVAN 
Is coming I 
Wednesday,CXrtober13 10:00 a.m.-2:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
• 55 Law Schools Represented • 
Questions answered; Information provided helpful in making the 
' decision to attend law school and in the selection of a law school. 
ALL STUDENTS INVITED I 
Co-Sponsored by Career & Placement Services and Pre-Law Society 
Beavis & Bullhead is a re-run Tuesday. Come and see us instead. Info on a career in Client Service with Leo Burnett. Tuesday, Oct. 12, 7 p.m. University Club All majors welcome!! 
"Stuart Nicolai-Have you checked your e­mail lately? 
Thank God for Dennis Very! First you gave us Kevin McDougal, now you're championing Bald is Beautiful. Just 
and there are no bowl bids at to win and play a little bit bet­stake. ter in games we're supposed "You've got to find a way to to," Colletto said. "The big deal 

Welcomes Parents for 
win and not almost win." is getting out of your comfort 
~s 

Parent's Weekend 

Wacker said. "A lot's going to zone and stepping across the be riding on Saturday." line and winning some games 
Famiglia 
and All Football Fans! 
Wacker has won only three that are important to win." 
Restaurant 
games since taking over the The Boilermakers were Gophers last season. They are almost there nine years ago, 

Open Friday and Saturday: 4-11 (as usual) 
1-4 overall and 0-2 in the Big when Everett led them to a 6-3 
Special hours on Sunday: 4-8
Ten this year. Big Ten record. They haven·t "It never happens as fast as finished above .500 since. 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS: 256-1444 

A New Series (or Graduate Students 




Dr. Dominic Vachon 
Discussing 
How To Deal With Relationship Conflicts 
Afraid to tell your best friend, roommate or special friend 
about? • things that simply annoy you 
• 
conflicts in your living situation 

• 
problems in the relationship or 

• 
a personality conflict 


Dr. Vachon will discuss the skills necessary to maintain communication lines, as well as address your specific issues and questions. 
DATE: SUNDAY,OCTOBERIO TIME: 7:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. LOCATION: Fischer, O'Hara-ce Community Center 
(?MPUSMINISTRY Next Presentation: Sunday, November 21, 7:30p.m. on Anxiety. 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Campus Ministry Fischer, O'Hara-Grace University Village Graduate Student Union 
Refreshments will be provided! 


... 
_... 
'A Great Way fa get together with Friends or spenJ A Ramantic Evening with Someone Special' 
WIIAT KIND OF FONDliE 
DO \'VE 01· FER'? 
chc·rse•hcef•,·h 1o.:~..:n ~calt >od•vq:rtahl..:· 
Hanlin!! c"h· >l'l >i.tll' 
Go NO! BEAT PITT! 
lies~"' r· ,.,s q,lC~fl>'llmvJ•<J 0 I 
219-255-1526 
-I
-----------I 
'Uf!.:t ~ ''•.'<. ··t·~--II:"J ...,~ ;11 l~ I r·, & ......it ~'fMIIfllJ ;,.m ~(lll • 
.{,1)('1'.:-..ll R•\11'\11·\W:\K \ ,., I lJ;JD'J': ~' '!1 ()!1 H•ewery R1 Jq 
-~---------~ 
Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•

Atlanta pounds Philadelphia 14-3, evens sertes 
By AlAN ROBINSON Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Check the tape measures, the Philadelphia Phillies' ERAs and the look of disbelief on Tommy Greene's face. The Atlanta Braves are back -make that way back. 
The Braves, a team built on power hitting and power pitch­ing, got both in abundance Thursday night in a record 14-3 rout of the Phillies in Game 2 of the National League playoffs. 

E~RESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room -L3Fortune Student Center -631-8128 
Hours: 
Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00am -9:00 pm~ Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTEDI 
They also got exactly what they wanted in Philadelphia -a split 
The series goes to Atlanta for Game 3 Saturday. where the confidence-restored Braves will start Tom Glavine (22-6), part of their unmatched stable of pitching talent, against left­bander Terry Mulholland (12­9). Mulholland has pitched just twice in the last month because of a strained hip. 
Atlanta's big bats. so quiet in the Phillies' 4-3. 10-inning vic­tory in Game 1, broke loose big time against Greene (16-4). who was 10-0 in Veterans Stadium this season. Manager Jim Fregosi held him back a day so he might start twice in the Vet. but there was no hold­ing back the Braves' offense which tied an NL playoff record with 16 hits while setting a major league playoff record with the 14 runs. 
Fred McGriff. who super­charged the Braves' dramatic 39-11 stretch run that seized the NL West title from the San Francisco Giants. got it going with a huge two-run drive in the first. and Greene and the Phillies never recovered. 

GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, October 15 -Saturday, October 16 ... 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Planning: Graduate students interested in this retreat are invited and urged to attend a one hour meeting Monday, October 11, 7:00-8:00 p.m.. in the Fischer Graduate Community Center in order to help plan the retreat. 
Deadline: Reservations will be accepted until Monday, October 11. 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 631-8607. Cost $15.00 for the cost of meals and snacks. 

(?MPUSMINISTRY 
ELECTRIC FORMULA RACE CAR 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING STUDENT DESIGN OF DRIVE TRAIN 
To Compete with other Universities in 
1994 CLEVELAND ELECTRIC GRAND PRIX 
Col. John D. Miles 1-5532 
Dr. William B. Berry 1-6102 
Or. \1 ichael M. Stanisic 1-7897 
Program Meeting will be held prior to Fall break, on October 12. 7:00pm. Room 303 Cushing Hall of Engineering. Participants welcomed from Arts & Letters. Business, Science. and Engineering 
Jeff Blauser. so sick Wednesday that he couldn't hear the rock concert-loud Phillies' fans, homered in a six­run third in which Greene never retired a hitter. Damon Berryhill and Terry Pendleton later went deep against Philadelphia's as-usual shaky bullpen, and Ron Gant had two doubles and three RBlc 
The four-homer nigh• vas a Braves' postseason recort:. a significant accomplishment for a franchise that has showcased sluggers such as Hank Aaron. Orlando Cepeda and Dale Murphy. 
Greg Maddux. the 20-game winner who rarely needs more than three runs to win, had an 8-0 lead by the third, and that's the NL equivalent of mailing it in. He gave up Dave Hollins' two-run homer in the fourth, but that was the only blip on his otherwise splendid pitching line. 
Maddux (20-10) was 13-2 after July 11 and didn't allow more than two earned runs in his last 13 decisions. He didn't this night, either, pitching five­hit ball over seven innings, striking out eight and walking three in his first postseason vic­tory. He was 0-1 for the Cubs against the Giants in the 1989 playoffs. 
The Braves' blowout-even 
more overpowering than their 
13-4 pounding of Pittsburgh in Game 2 in last year's playoffs -was unexpected because of the opposing pitcher. 
Greene had limited Atlanta to 
a .111 batting average this sea­son, and no Braves' starter other than Mark Lemke. who was 2-for-4, had a career aver­age higher than .273 against him. McGriff. for example, was 0-for-7, and Blauser 0-for-5. 
But Greene, traded by Atlanta to the Phillies in 1990. couldn't throw any of his pitch­es for strikes, and that's a death wish against only the fifth team in major-league history with three 30-homer, 100-RBI men in the same season. 
The Braves are most danger­ous when leadoff hitter Otis Nixon gets on. and Greene ill­advisely walked him on four pitches to start the game. 
He made an even bigger mis­
take two batters later by trying 
to sneak a frrst-pitch fastball by 
McGriff. who had 19 homers 
and 55 RBis in 68 games with 
Atlanta. McGriff pumped it off 
the concrete facing of the upper 
deck. a 438-foot drive that was 
only the seventh homer in that 
area in the Vet's 22-year histo­
ry. 

McGriff is only one of 12 major leaguers to hit 30 homers in six straight seasons, but the homer was his first in 27 postseason at-bats with Atlanta and the 1989 Toronto Blue Jays. 
r-----------------------------., 
: $2 OFF AMY PIE OR CAKE. : 
-----------------------------1 
I  I  
:  (AMD WE CUSTOMIZEI)  :  
1  Pleose present coupon before ordf!rlng. One  ~t.¥::+r  1  
1  coupon per custo!Tlf!r per visit. Offer good only  ..&.Oe~  1  
:  ot oddress obove. Not volid in combinotlon with  I  
I  ~my other offer. Expires 11/15/93  01091, 1 c..~..,_ ••• .,.,_., ......  I  

Latin American/North American Church Concerns (LANACC), and the Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry (CCFM) 
LECTURE 

Teresa Whitfield 
Author of 

Paying the Price: Ignacio Ellacurria and the Murdered jesuits of El Salvador 
Director of 

Moving Pictures, BBC 2 Television, London 
The Role of the Jesuits in the Peace Process of El Salvador 
Monday, October 11, 1993 
8:00p.m. 

Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
PuliLIICE .-CIMMPION 
TtJfMII 
Tlae Motto Tlaat Motivates· Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 
Distributed by: 

1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 

209 E. Colfax Ave. -2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
l:ook for the AP Image LDgo on the tag. k's your guarantee of quality. Why settle for second best7 
Play Uke a Champ;on Today. "' pendong 
~------~~~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 8, 1993 
Tailback Chaney gets nod for Hoosiers 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
AP Sporu Wri1er 
BLOOMINGTON 
The logjam of candidates for the starting job at tailback has been broken with junior Jermaine Chaney in command heading into Saturday's Big Ten game against visiting Iowa. 
Coach Bill Mallory began the · season with four players rated about equal. 
"Jermaine has surfaced as our No. 1 tailback," Mallory said. "He's been getting better and better." 
Chaney has netted 379 yards, averaging 4.9 yards per carry for Indiana. He carried 31 times against Minnesota·for 109 yards last week. Both marks were season highs for the Hoosiers and career highs for the 6-foot-1. 190-pound junior. 
"He's turned it loose. He's run with good consistency," Mallory said of Chaney, who was acade­mically ineligible to play as a freshman and had 204 yards rushing last year. 
"He really was the one that when he got the football was the most productive. When he had the ball, he was doing completing 18-of-32 passes. 
However, Mallory isn't satis­fied with a running game that is averaging 166.8 yards per game rushing, compared to last year's mark of 121.5. 
"''m not really happy with the running game. But. we've cer­tainly made improvement over last year," he said. ''I'd like to see us up in that 200 range." 
Iowa (2-2, 0-2) is coming off two consecutive losses to national powers Penn State and Michigan. 
"We've had two seasons already, we've had a good sea­son and a bad season," coach Hayden Fry said. "We've made some progress and we made a thousand mistakes against two very, very good football teams in Penn State and Michigan." 
Iowa has won eight of the last nine games between the teams, building a 32-20-4 advantage in the series. Indiana's last victory since 1979 when it outscored the Hawkeyes 45-31 in 1988. 
"We realize Indiana has a tremendous number of veteran players who have been playing extremely well." Fry said. "If we keep making silly mistakes we're making, giving great field position to the other team, than we're not going to have a very good season. If we can correct some mistakes, we have the 
((\ We're Still Open t::-,.,
0
nG ~~ 
~o,.. Daily from 4 p.m. to 3 a.m. .bo.oc:
ftee o,., 
THE COMMONS 
"The Traditon Continues" 
something with it. coming out 'l"""'""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""=il with good yardage," Mallory b[e 's :J3is/ro & ~ said. "His vision is getting bet-<:::... tA CZr~, 
ter. He's sensing where people (.) v "'""<'"~ are and making good cuts off LQ; ~~ it." /\V Fine dining at moderate prices Qo
Indiana had its top offensive '-) ~ production of the season when Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee 
it gained 389 yards at Theatre WOrks Playhouse -upstairs Minnesota with John Paci pass­ing for a career-high 255 yards, 
at the Bistro 
Ask about catering 257-0400 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
SUMMER ENGINEERING FOREIGN STUDY 
. 
Ill 
LONDON, ENGLAND 
INFORMATION MEETING: Tuesday, October 12, 1993 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00p.m. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
HARRY'S 
Restaurant & Bar
-
(Formerly-Fisherman sWhar.fi On Eagle Lake Road just north ofU.S. 12 Edwardsburg, MI. (616) 699-5113 
Michiana's Newest Restaurant 
Steaks -Prime Rib -Chops ­B-B-Q Ribs -Seafood -Pasta ­Salads-Lighter Fare-Daily Specials 
Reservations Suggested Open Tues-Sun at 5:00pm 
ability to compete." 

The game may well develop into a defensive battle. Both teams are among the Top 25 nationally in passing defense and total defense. Indiana is second in the Big Ten and 15th nationally in passing defense, having allowed 96.1 yards per game. Iowa is fourth in the con­ference and 23rd nationally with a 103.2 mark. 
In total defense, the Hoosiers are third in the conference and 17th nationally with a 303.4 mark. Iowa is fourth in the con­ference and 21st nationally at 31 1.0. 
"This defense has good ability, along with the experience. Our speed and quickness is certain­ly improved," Mallory said of the unit, which has yielded only 64 points this year to rank 12th nationally. "I think it's got qual­ity, plus I think there's a strong degree of pride there. They've got a good attitude there." 
"They have excellent speed," Fry said of Indiana's defense. ''I'm amazed how consistent they are in stopping third down plays. They are among the best in the nation on third downs." 
Town 


Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer. SPORTS 
Cornhuskers stop Cowboys, 27-13 

By OWEN CANFIELD 
Associated Press 
STILLWATER. Okla. 
Nebraska righted itself after a sluggish first half. getting big plays from its offense and spe­cial teams to beat Oklahoma State 2 7-1 3 and give coach Tom Osborne his 200th victory. 
Nebraska (5-0. 1-0 Big Eight) hasn't lost to the Cowboys since 1961. There was a tie in 1973. 
The seventh-ranked Cornhuskers fell behind 13-3 in the first half as Oklahoma State (3-2. 0-1) took advantage of good field position and held tailback Calvin Jones in check. 
Jones and the rest of the offense got going in the second half. when field position swung in the Cornhuskers' favor. When Barron Miles blocked a punt and recovered it in the end zone early in the fourth quarter. Nebraska had the lead for the first time and was on its way. 
Jones sealed things with a 44­
yard touchdown run with 3:38 
remaining. He finished with 
136 yards on 21 carries. 
Osborne. in his 21st season. is 
OCTOBER IS CUSTOMER APPRECIATION MONTH 
. Recetving, 
domesttc transmissions only, 
per page. 
~none cnarges rr:'<iY aootV 
Ground. 2-0ay or Overmght & ,.J../1 Other UPS Ser11ces. 
.::J~r customer. :J~r ·Jay. 
~-MAIL BOXES ETC. ~ :8115 S.R. 23 
•.'v!ARTIN'S PLA?-o\J 
J
SOL'TH BEND, IN 46637 :'H0~£<219) 277-6245 
OrEN: 9A.\1-71'\t MOI\:-FRI !~A:>t-61'\t 5AT .::.-. 
200-46-3. He is the 11th coach to win 200 games and joins Joe Paterno of Penn State and Bobby Bowden of Florida State as the only active coaches to do so. 
Jones. who had played only one snap in the previous three games due to a knee injury. had just 26 yards on nine car­ries in the first half. 
But his 20-yard run midway through the third quarter put the ball at the Oklahoma State 
4. and on the next play Tommie Frazier scored on an option keeper to tie the score at 13. It was the first rushing touch­down against the Cowboys this season. 
Miles· block and touchdown came after linebacker Trev Alberts sacked Tone' Jones at the 2. It was Oklahoma State's fourth possession of the half. none of which started outside the Cowboys 20. 
Oklahoma State failed to con­vert a fake punt on fourth-and­8 at the Cornhuskers 45 late in the fourth quarter. and three plays later Jones scored on his long run to end any doubt. 
Aside from a play or two. Oklahoma State could not have scripted the first half any bet­ter. The Cowboys did not turn the ball over. controlled the ·clock and handled Jones. 
They got two field goals from Lawson Vaughn to take a 6-0 first-quarter lead. The Cowboys started those drives at the Nebraska 24 after a fumble recovery and at their 46 after the defense forced a punt. 
Oklahoma State also moved the ball well in the first half. The Cowboys' only touchdown drive lasted 16 plays and nearly 8 1/2 minutes. with Louis Adams scoring on a 1-yard dive to make the score 13-3. 
Oklahoma State did hurt itself with penalties. Illegal proce­dure negated a 27-yard run by Boogie Johnson that would have given the Cowboys the ball at the Nebraska 11 on their second possession. They wound up settling for a field goal. 
Oklahoma State also was flagged for two personal fouls on Nebraska's first scoring drive. which stalled at the 11 and ended with a 28-yard field goal by Byron Bennett. 
Bennett hit a 26-yarder on the final play of the half to bring the Cornhuskers within 13-6. The big play was a 31­yard completion from Frazier to split end Corey Dixon on fourth-and-5 from the Oklahoma State 40 with under 
THE BEST PRICES 
1 DOZ. ROSES -$9.95 
1 ROSE-$2.00 
FOOTBALL CORSAGES 
FRESH & SILK 
ONLY $3.00 
WE DELIVER! 
1635 Edison Rd Use your credit card & Across from 
charge by phone: Linebacker 

•Jot Co{{ution of:Memories» 
·~ountry !J{arvester Presents 
IRISH.VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame BuUdings 
The Village Is GrowingI 
L.:.;. • 

.~a$.~[~-ttlea··
.;LJ •. ' , 

We are Pleased to Announce Additions to Our Collection of Notre Dame Buildings: 
Rockne Memorial, Fisher Hall, Farley Hall, Breen,Phillips Hall, Sarin Hall 
La~ortunt Student Center Lower £eve£ 

(219) 631-6714 
Officid!y Licensea Proauct of'I1U 'University of'J{ptre 'lJame 

Dancing at Lu:...--· 
Winner of the 1992 
by Bnan Friel 
Tony Award for Best Play 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats: $7 
Wednesday, October 13 8:10p.m. Student and senior citizen discounts Thursday, October 14 8:10p.m. are available Wednesday, Thursday Friday, October IS 8:10p.m. and Sunday. Tickets are available at Saturday, October 16 8: I 0 p.m. the LaFortune Ticket Office. Master Sunday, October 17 2:30 p.m. Card and Visa orders call: 631-8128. 
-
-. 
-'··.t~:··. 


r------------------------------------------~---------------~ 
Friday, October 8, 1993 


Tim Oates and the Irish travel to Xavier and Ohio State this weekend. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
year's squad is ready to become a viable top-ten team. 
"We've got to learn how to work as a top-ten team," he said. "After we learn that. we'll be able to do it." 
Although tonight's match-up is only an exhibition. the Irish are taking it seriously and viewing it as an indicator of how much progress they have made as a. team. 
"It's going to be a great game for us," Corrigan added. "They're probably the best team we'll play all year." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
A horseback riding day day planned for Sunday. October 10. A bus will depart every hour from 10:30 until 
2:30. The fee is $12 per person which includes transportation. Those interested should regis­ter in advance in the RecSports office by 5:00pm on Thursday. October 7. The maximum num­ber per ride is 10. For more information. call RecSports at 631-6100. 
-

ND Students -We're at your setvice! 
r-------------------,
!1oOJ~oubff j 
I Your next service vis1t at Jordan's I 
____________________. 
L 
IPrior Offers Excluded. This offer good alone only on next visit to Jordan's only. Offer expires I 10131. Restrictions may apply to certain vehicles; call for details todav. I 


Free Shuttle 
Free Shuttle Service! A, X, Z Grad plan buyers welcome! Se1vice! 
At Jefferson and Cedar Streets Mishawaka 

NOTRE DAME 
THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 
> SHOPOPENFOOTBALL WEEKENDS 

Visit the n SATEL LITE SHOP" at the JACC 
Open before, during & after the game 
Men 
continued from page 24 

Following tonight's contest. the Irish will travel to Ohio State on Sunday. Notre Dame has a 5-0-1 series record against the Buckeyes. Their last meeting came in 1990. with the Irish scoring a 2-0 triumph. 
"Ohio State has the best team they've had in years," com­mented Berticelli. 
The Buckeyes. who have a 3­6-1 record. will play Valparaiso at home tonight before Sunday's match with the Irish. Ohio State is presently on a three-game losing streak. with their last victory coming on September 22 against Bowling 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Subs • Salads • Pizza
,-...

"":\..........,q) at 
~7' ,·"' ....._ ( Martin's Plaza SR 23 & Ironwood
\. M/ 
273..2234 


~r~ Parent Weekend Special 
~ / $100 
L'-.... 

off any 6 inch or foot long sub with c ((_(__,...--' ,..)) purchase of a medium drink f'.
0 

1
/.Jpol) (excludes veggie & BLT) ,.,ov.V0­
Green. 
The Buckeyes will look to Steve Muller. who has six goals on the season. and Mark Sotherden. who has tallied six assists. They could be exploit­ed defensively. however. Goalie Chad Abend holds a 2.03 Goals Against Average, and has yet to record a shutout this sea­son. 
In order to pick up two wins this weekend, the Irish will need strong play from sopho­more forward Bill Lanza. who had five goals against DePaul last week. and defenders Dane Whitley and Brian Engesser. who were able to slow the pow­erful offensive attacks by South Carolina and Penn State last weekend. 


The ObserverITeck Teng Jodi Hartwig and Michelle McCarthy battle a North Carolina State defender. 

Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
One-ti~e st:rfer Sacciai Hardaway signs with Magic 
leaves Peq,n ·Stlt~ ~~.:;,oooAlloRIANoo 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE~Pa. 
Penn state coach Joe Paterno said Thursday that quarterback John Sacca has given up play­ing football at Penn State. 
Sacca has not been at any of the team meetings or practices this week. and he threatened to quit the team earlier this sea­son. 
On his weekly call-in show. Paterno said Sacca was also having trouble academically. which also contributed to him leaving the team. 
..He fell behind with the aca<t, emics." Paterno said. "There was more to his leaving than ·· st football." 
Sacca's father, John Sacca Sr.• said he had not talked to his son since Tuesday and was waiting to hear from him. 
Sacca began as the starting 
quarterback for Penn State and 
threw four touchdown passes 
ON ANGELA BLVD 
Near Notre Dame-Adjacent to St. Mary's 
Very convienient location 
• 
Larger 3 bedroom 11/2 bath ranch 

• 
First floor Laundry CentAIR 

•
2 car garage basement 


IDEAL HOME FOR STUDENTS OR STAFF 
$59,900
CALL Jim Gaughan Cressy & Everett 
Home (219) 271-7532 Office (219)233-6141 Voice Mail (219) 235-4092 
Fun things to do oa parents' weekend: introduce pc:~rents lo lriencls watch the Irish hamiliale Pittsburgh 
out to dinner ELSE?I 
Black Jack *Poker *Craps *Roulette 
Music *Food *Mocktails *Prizes 

~i~· ~~~ ~lt\mli Ill ~a lJlll\ \1!118 1:mm a The most fun you can have without ditching your parents. 
sponsored by the Office of Drug 
=laB>
and Alcohol Education and 
iniithe opening game a.ga• Minnesota. 
But he went Just 6-17 the fol­lowing week against Southern California and after a poor start against Iowa. Patern() pulled Sacca and replaced him with Kerry Collins. 
"John Sacca was under an awful lot of pressure," Paterno said. "Expectations were very high for him and he got jilted fairly ot unfairly." · 
After the Iowa game. Sacca threatened to leave. · He received encouragement from his family to stay. and was in uniform for th.e Sept. 25th Rutgers game. 
But Sacca saw only mop·ua 
duty against Rutgers and agaiJ'i in last wee~·s Maryland game. He threw just flve passes in. the two games, 
Paterno said sophomore Wally Richardson would pack, up Collins. Paterno said he h.ac,l hoped to red-shirt Richardsoij 
this year. ·'" 
The Orlando Magic. who insisted they got the best player in the draft with the No. 3 pick. backed up their claim Thursday night by signing Anfernee Hardaway to a contract worth more than $65 million. 
The deal, believed to be for 13 years. is the second-richest in pro team sports behind the 12­year. $84 million agreement signed Tuesday by Larry Johnson of the Charlotte Hornets. The contract includes a substantial loan as well as a "performance out" clause that would allow the 6-foot-7 point guard to become a restricted free agent if certain statistical goals are achieved. 
Before Hardaway could sign, though. NBA lawyers had to determine that the multi-year contract fit under the league's salary cap. The announcement. originally scheduled for Thursday afternoon. was delayed several times while the Magic awaited word from the league office. 
"I think in the last six hours I had seven nightmares." Hardaway said. "I kept think­ing we would get a call back and they would say you can't do this or do that." 
Shaquille O'Neal. who signed a seven-year. $40 million con­tract as the top pick in the 1992 draft. will be paid just over $3 


Tues-Fri 11-2:30 (lunch) 5-9:30 (dinner) 620 W. Edison Rd. • Mishawaka Sat-Sun 4-9 Carry Out Available St. Andrew's Plaza • 254-9120 

~-------------------·-------, 
Chinese -American I· 
Restaurant & 
Cockt11il Lounge 
1\.uthentic Szechuan, 
M:mdarin & HWlan Cuisir.: 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 
Votcd_Be~~

Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 
Ori~ntal Restm(rant'

Banquet rooms available for up to ZOO 
in Mkhiana by ',~ 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Michicma No\v ';.'
(next li.> Randall's Inn ) '. 
! 

~BRUNO'S PIZZA 
NOW DELIVERS!! 
Weekend Special: 18in-2items $14.00 14 in-2items $10.00 
For Carry Out/Delivery call 
273-3890 

million with the Magic this sea­son. Hardaway will make about $1.2 million in base salary as a rookie. 
"I haven't looked at his con­tract, but I'm happy and he's happy. Congratulations to him and his family," said O'Neal. who developed a friendship with Hardaway this summer while the two were filming -a movie in California. 
''I've figured this out. Even though some guys are making more than others. we all have the same things. Call it the Shaq theory. We all have big houses. we all have nice suits. we all have nice cars. I'm happy. My family's happy. That's all that counts." 
Women 
continued from page 24 
who missed Evansville's first five matches of the season due to injury. Helton has scored in two of the Purple Aces' last three contests. 
"We need to not take them lightly," said McCarthy. 
In the milestone department. Irish tri-captain Alison Lester needs only five more points to tie Susie Zilvitis for the lead in overall scoring on Notre Dame's all-time charts with 112 points. She could very well eclipse that mark this week­end. 
Coyne. who missed Wednesday's match against Wisconsin-Milwaukee with a pulled hamstring, is question­able for this weekend's games. The Irish are 16-1-1 in games when Coyne earns at least one point. 
- 
--­ 
~  
l  
1  
l  
~  
l  
l  


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 8, 1993 

Upsets abound in women's interhall gold division 
scorrCLEMENTE 
SportsWriter 
Unable to overcome several injuries to key players Lyons 
· Hall fell to Walsh Hall in the featured game of the women's Gold League action Thursday night. Lyons' offense had diffi. culty executing all night due to injuries to both of the teams' running backs and managed their only touchdown on a hall mary pass from quaterback Julie Byrd to Melissa Cook. 
"Our defense played great," Stated Byrd... Our offense was just not there." 
Walsh. on the other hand, was able to move the ball from start to finish as junior Meg Allen scored touchdowns for her team on Walsh's first and last possesions. 
Badin 13. Howard 6 
Badin Hall. recovering from their frrst loss of the season, upset no. 2 Howard last night. 
Sophmore Jill Stanek scored on a touchdown reception and teamate Tina Fusco scored on a run to provide the scor.lng for No.5 Badin. 
Coach Chris Monahan was impressed with the way the team was able to put last weeks loss behind them. "The girls bounced back well," stat­ed Monahan. "They played like a different team tonight, the team they are capable of play­ing like." 
Pangborn 6. B.P. 0 
In the third and biggest upset of the night, Pangborn beat Breen·Phillips to secure not only their first victory of the season. but also the first victory in the history of Phox football. 
In the ftrst half. the defens· es battled and neither team was able to reach the endzone. Then, in the second half .Pangborn scored on a two yard run by sophmore M.T. Kraft. 
Saint Mary's soccer dumps Calvin 
Special to the Observer 
After a five game home stand, the Saint Mary's soccer team traveled to Grand Rapids on Thursday to take on Calvin College, the 1Oth ranked team in the Great Lakes Region. 
-
The Belles turned in a solid performance and came away with a 2-0 upset win. 
Head Coach Tom Van Meter was pleased with his team's performance against Calvin. and satisfied with the win. 
"This is a big win for us." he said. "especially to go to their place and upset a ranked team. Calvin had just beaten a team [Kalamazoo) that had already beaten us this season. Hopefully. this could get us back into the rankings." 
The Belles scored early in the game to take a 1-0 lead. Megan Oefalso took an assist from Jenny Ferry into the net just six minutes into the game. 
Late in the half. the Belles· goaltender was given a red card and that forced them to play the second half shorthand­ed. 
_, 
"I was really happy with the 

Siegfried to challenge Pasquerilla West 
By KELLY CORNELIS Spons Writer 

After upsetting Pasquerilla East in overtime last Wednesday. Siegfried hopes to carry its momentum into Sunday's game against Blue division leader Pasquerilla West. Although P.W. recently suffered its first loss of the sea­son against Farley . the lack of 
P.W. 
players may have con­tributed to the outcome. Thus. 

P.W. 
remains the favorite in Sunday's contest. 


Siegfried hopes to win by improving even more on an impressive defensive perfor­mance against P.E. 
"Our defense played really well against P.E. If we can stop them (P.W.). and get a few points on offense, we should be set." noted Siegfried captain Angi Luzio. "We've been work­ing hard all week and plan on implementing a few new plays." 
P.W. hopes that the return of many key players will put them back on the road to victory. and secure their spot to the top of the rankings. · 
"I think we look pretty good at this point." said quarterback Bethany Riddle. "We recognize that at this point last year. we sort of fell apart. So we're try­ing to get mental1y tough in order to avoid that this season." 
Last season Siegfried crushed the P.W. team. so they are looking to redeem themselves. 
"Siegfried gave us a lot of trouble last year." added Riddle. " They whipped us twice, so we have to be careful not to get too confident. or to let any of the hype affect our play." 
P.E. vs. Lewis 

In Sunday's second game, Blue division co-leader Lewis will meet Pasquerilla East. who lost a heart-breaker to Siegfried on Wednesday. Lewis, 3-1 after their shutout of Knott. has played intense defense all season and will pose a challenge to P.E.. who must recover from their loss. 
Lewis is confident of their chances heading into Sunday's game. Their defense has not yet been seriously threatened. and their offense has been consis­tent all season. 
"We need to keep our offense going and continue doing what we've been doing." stated Lewis captain Julie Fleck. "Our defense has only given up six points all season. so if we can just score some points. we should be fine." 
Farley vs. Knott 

Farley Hall. who upset no. 1 ranked P.W. to improve its record to 2-2. will play a win­less Knott team in the final game Sunday. Farley's offense showed improvement in the game, and has gained much confidence from their upset. Knott. who has been steadily improving with every game, is hungry for its first win. 
Farley 's strategy heading into the game against Knott is to keep everything the same. 
"We are looking forward to playing Knott," said Farley cap­tain Lisa Dvorchek. "We feel that if we continue the game­plan we used against P.W.. then we have a good chance of beat­ing them." 
Sunday's games mark the final round of the regular sea· son for the Blue League. 


way they responded in the sec­ond half. since we only had ten players," said Van Meter. 
The Belles added to their lead just eight minutes into the half when Molly O'Connell scored off a Maura Sullivan assist. 
The Belles next game is Saturday when they travel to Trinity College. 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports 
let's Go Irish! 

Italian . Mexican . American The Works Bar and Grill located in the Historic Works Hotel 
Serving tlie finest Pasta and %e?(j.can dislies. Our specia{ty entrees 6egin at $3.95. %a/(s. your weekf_ni reservations now! 

501 North Niles Avenue, South Bend 237-9757 

Friday, October 8, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
·­



The better-equipped slave ships, of course, always carried a spare. 
OF INTEREST 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

L..KU~~WUKU 

ACROSS 30 Ready to eat 54 Therefore 31 Caulks the 55 Poker-faced
1 Unresisting cracks again 57"The--,"a Black leopard 
33 Drives up the 1983 Finney film b-1---l-~1--+--+--4­15 Unfolds 
wall 59 Authorize 16 Behind the 
35 Walk in water &oMise-­eight ball 
36 One to grow (stage setting) 17 Most moist in 
on? 61 Puts in office the morning 
37 Showed results again 18 Sporting a tag 62 Hates
40Asa whole 19 Stage device 
43 In a talented 20 Card of the manner 
DOWN 
future? 
44 Giants and A's 22 Advantage 46 "Younger--1 Cheap-jack Springtime" 2 Par for the 
23 Wool: Comb. 
courseform 47 Free of 3 Do an odd farm 24 Knee percher 48 Tell a whopper chore? 
25 Second word in 49 Mythical 4 Fall from an anthem monster 
grace26 River in Bavaria 50 African flower 
5 "--Got a 28 Yielded 52 Pooh's creator Secret" 
6 Sleeveless garb ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Conditions a Did a conn job
H I NT 9 Course for a
0 N C E med. student 29 Acheson and 39 All the cats 51 Actress 
SCAR 
Martin McClurg
10 Catch a crook 40 Did an editor's 
30 Emulate the job 52 Sundae 
~~~~~~~ 11 "Get--toa 
alternative

~ nunnery": Pied Piper 41 "EI Jaleo" Hamlet painter 53 Bird of merit?
32 --Annie of ~-+=+=-l 12 Does another "Oklahoma!" 42 Recalls at the odd farm Met
34A year inchore? 
McKinley's 45 Be under the 
~ffi!j!JII 13 Glassily clad Presidency weather .= 14 Some night 
37 Drum major in 
flights action 
A 8 I 8 
=+:=+=+-t 21 Mandrel 
38 Where
T 0 0 L .::c+:"-l-'-'+,:-l 27 Duly equipped Eisenhower
T Y N E 5656 (75¢ each minute).
~SHIRT '93 
Available at: 
Alumni Association Office The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Irish Express 

lAKE THE KEYS 
CALL ACAB. 
TAlE ASTAID.. 

fRir~rJS OU'rl ltl fH;rNUS DHIVt OHlH1K 
DINING HALL 
-

-
LaFortune Information Desk 
JACC Varsity Shop 
arents: Join Your Darners 
Alumni Association Hospitality Center 


SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, October 8, 1993 
Women's, men's soccer face MCC competition 
Women stay Men travel east 
home to face for Xavier, Ohio 
Musketeers, Aces State match-ups 
By MIKE NORBUTBy BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Spores W ricer Assiscanc Spons Edicor 
After a six-game homestand spanningUndefeated in the Midwestern 
three weeks of the season, the Notre DameCollegiate Conference. the Notre Dame men's soccer team will travel to Ohio this
women's soccer team plays its final weekend for matches 
home games of the regular season this against Xavier and Ohio 
weekend against league rivals Xavier State. and Evansville. The Irish, now posting a The sixth ranked Irish. winners of 16 6-4 record, were 4-2 dur­of their last 17 contests. are 2-0 in the ing their last six home MCC and 1t-t overall. games. including wins '\ The squad will open up the weekend over conference power 
Evansville No.
tonight versus the Lady Musketeers of and 14 4 
South Carolina. Their two ,_,.,. ·•Xavier in what is perhaps Notre Dame's 
losses came at the hands Mike Berticelli 
most important conference match-up of 
of No. 3 Indiana two
the season. 
weeks ago and No. 12 Penn State. who
The Irish have defeated the 
defeated Notre Dame 1-0 Saturday to shat­Musketeers in each of the last three ter Irish hopes of capturing the Notre Dame seasons and lead the overall series 3-2. 
Classic tournament title. Last year Notre Dame claimed a 2-1 victory while outshooting Xavier 9-4. "I thought we played extremely well dur­Sohomores Ragen Coyne and Michelle ing the tournament," said Irish head coach McCarthy scored unassisted goals for Mike Berticelli. "We could have and should the Irish. have won both games." Xavier. 3-7 on the season. will enter
This year's Xavier squad is tied with tonight's game in control of first place inthe Irish for first place in the MCC with
-
the Midwestern Collegiate Conference witha 3-0 league record and a 7-2-1 overall a 2-0 record. Their two victories camerecord. Its Joss to Vanderbilt last week­over Evansville and Loyola of Chicago. 
end snapped a five game winning streak in which the team went 7-0-1. 
The Irish hold a 8-2 series advantage
The Musketeers are a very athletic over the Muskateers, though Xavier was squad with great team speed, accord­triumphant last year. posting a 1-0 victory ing to Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. at Notre Dame. Consisting mainly of juniors and "Xavier is a crucial game." said Irish seniors, the team has an advantage in defender Chris Dean, who was selected, experience. goals and 37 points. "Conference-wise. it's an important along with teammate Tim Oates, to the All­
Xavier goalkeeper Kelcey Ervick is game," said Petrucelli. Tournament Team last weekend. "They
The Irish will counter by taking 
fourth in the MCC standings with a 1.23 Sunday's match with Evansville came in and beat us last year. and they'readvantage of their superior depth and goals against average and four should not be nearly as challenging as at the top of the conference right now. Wetalent. "We feel like we can exploit 
shutouts. tonight's game. A first year team, have to take it away from them." 
thier outside midfield players," said 
Tonight's game could prove to be a Evansville is winless in the MCC and 4­
Petrucelli. 
The Muskateers are led by senior mid­battle of the defenses, as neither team 5-1 overall.
The Musketeers are led by Sue Vogel. 
fielder Mike Mossel. who was leading the
has allowed a goal to a conference foe The Purple Aces are a first year team
sister of Irish sophomore defender Julie region in scoring before sitting out last
this season. led by freshman Stephanie Hartong.
Vogel. and sophomore forward Barbi week due to injury. Junior forwards Doug
"Our defense is stong enough to stop who has 13 points on five goals and
Haris, who is currently seventh in the Tegge and Charlie Combs have also made
their forwards." said Notre Dame tri­eight assists. They will be boosted by
MCC in scoring with nine goals and substantial offensive contributions this sea­
captain Stephanie Porter, "so it comes the return of freshman Amanda Helton. 
three assists. Harris was the leading son. 
down to how our forwards play. I don't scorer in the MCC last season with 1 7 
_.. think they can control our offense." see WOMEN I page 21 see MEN I page 20 
Lacrosse opens season with exhibition 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY in scoring last season. Colley will be 
Assiscanc Sports Editor "Overall they have a lot more talent unavailable for the game due to a than we have," said sophomore prior engagement. defender Billy Gallagher. "but they 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team haven't been playing together all fall "Randy's a great player who does a plays its first exhibition of the fall like we have." lot for our offense," said Ahmunty. tonight at Alumni Field versus the "Individually. everybody will be "But we have other players who are Philiadelphia All-Stars. challenged," said Notre Dame head capable of filling his spot." 
coach Kevin Corrigan. "I hope that 
The All-Stars are a group of ex-col­we're up for the challenge." The Irish are coming off an 11-3 lege standouts and national greats season in which they were eliminated who came together specifically for "We have to play as a team," said in the first round of the NCAA tour­this match-up. Their team boasts six Irish tri-captain Billy Ahmunty. nament by Virginia. They will be members of the last United States "We've been going for a month now returning 13 of their best 15 players world team and several more players competing against each other, and from last year's team. Their entire 
,, 
who currently compete in the profes­now we have to play together." starting defensive corps and goalie sional Major Indoor Lacrosse League. will be back this season.( "If they were a standing team." said In terms of talent, the All-Stars Corrigan. "they'd be as good as any "This is the most experienced
l 
clearly out-class Notre Dame individ­team in the country." group we've ever had and I hope that 
• ually. The Irish, however, are hoping pays off for us," said Corrigan. that the time they have spent practic­One obstacle the Irish will need to
t 
-
ing together this semester will give overcome is the absence of tri-cap­Indeed. Corrigan thinks that this them an advantage. tain Randy Colley. who led the team 
see LACROSSE I page 20 
Inside SPORTS 

SMC Soccer NL Playoffs 
Women's Gold Belles top region's no. 10 
Braves tie series with 
Division 

I ~ 
team, 2-0. 

Phillies 1-1. 
A night of upsets in women's interhall. 

see page 22 
see page 17 
see page 22 

I -­




t 





