
-~ ~ -----~-----------­

[ hand in their jerseys. The se­niors threaten not to suit up 
Cunningham speaks on GSU supports university 
for the final game of the sea­
' 
son if Rudy isn't allowed to suit up. Not only did the scene never 
the unity of the Church Women's Resource Center 
actually happen. it is contrary 
By NANCY DUNN fund or the Women's Resource
to the ideals of the Notre Dame 
By MARIA CULCASI Cunningham. and the term News Writer Committee pending funding
football program. according to 
News Writer "American Catholic" itself is an from Student Activities. 
Devine. Devine said that 
"oxymoron" because the The Graduate Student Union In other business. the GSU
University officials who exam­
Although it is important for Catholic Church is a universal (GSU) issued a statement of decided to help fund a recent
ined the script for historical 
individual parishes to maintain Church. continuing support for a dance sponsored by the African 
accuracy. mis-handled the 
their traditions. an essential The aim of the papacy is to University funded Women's Student Association. The
situation. 
aspect of today's Catholic "speak as one voice, the voice Resource Center at last night's amount of the allocation was
"It is something that 
Church is its unity. according to of the Gospel." he said. meeting. reduced from the requested
wouldn't happen at Notre 
Professor Lawrence "I don't know that we have While no new business was 450 dollars to 200 dollars. be­
Dame. and it is something that 
Cunningham, chair of the Notre that many conflicts (between introduced, members used this cause the organization said it
wouldn't happen anyplace," he 
Dame theology department. the American Catholic Church meeting as an opportunity to was sponsored by GSU. but did
said. "It's a distortion of what 
To successfully maintain tra­and the Vatican)." Cunningham confirm presidential appoint­not file a request until after the
a football team is. and what a 
ditions while maintaining links said, "but rather a series of ments. verify the budget. and event occurred. 
football team ought to be." 
with the church. there must be tensions. In many ways, the review the reports of the vari­"To say they are receiving
Although Devine gave verbal 
three basic elements present in American Catholics have been ous committees. funds. before they are," was ir­
and written consent to movie 
every Catholic community. exemplary in their relation­William Christiansen's ap­responsible and GSU would be
producers to make him "the 
Cunningham said. ships with the Vatican." pointment to the position of setting a "poor precedent" by
heavy" or antagonist of the 
These elements include the There have always been ten­secretary was confirmed by the approving their request.
film. he said that he had no 
profession of faith. sacramental sions between the "Great committee as was the appoint­Medieval Institute
idea that writer Angelo Pizzo 
life and "common ministry un­Church" and local churches. ment of Daniel Stauffer to the Representative Mark Holtz said. 
would make him out to be the 
der a bishop," Cunningham Cunningham said. position of treasurer. Also, GSU agreed that the so­
villain of the film. Pizzo, in 
said. "Each bishop must be in "These so-called conflicts are Linda Chalk was appointed cial committee could allocate
town for the "Rudy" premiere. 
communion with all other bish­usually press-generated," he and confirmed as head of the up to 500 dollars for a Hispanic
could not be reached for com­
ops, including the bishop of said. Women's Resource Committee American dance if it so chooses
ment. 
Rome. the Pope." The Catholic Church in which was the center of much pending the receipt of more
Despite being "hurt" by the 
Only through this communion America has many strengths. discussion at the meeting. information. 
scene. time commitments to 
can unity be achieved. ac­for example. the great number Faced with a lack of funding. After approving the funding
his job as Athletic Director at 
cording to Cunningham. of people volunteering and the members of the committee of several events. several mem­
the University of Missouri. in 
Historically. there has working for the Church. said find their ability to function re­bers voiced their concern over
addition to supporting his wife 
always been.tension between Cunningham. stricted. "We would like to sup­the amount of money being
in her longtime battle with 
local churches and the "Greater However. he added that one port such programs, but we spent by the organization. GSU
Multiple Sclerosis are currently 
Church" in Rome. he said. It is major weakness is that Church cannot," Linda Chalk said. is currently "depleting its bud­
more important to Devine than 
difficult to maintain a balance leaders "maybe haven't looked Joe Manak was also ap­get at an astronomical rate"
taking any action on "Rudy." 
between the autonomy of local around to see the changes tak­pointed and confirmed as head and representatives should plan
...Rudy is really on the back­
churches and the central au­ing place fm the communities)" of the Intellectual Life for the future. said President
burner for me right now," he 
thority in Rome. because the like the growing number of Committee which will be mak­Rita Francis. 
said. 
"Catholic Church is always Spanish-speaking Catholics in ing funds available to the The Travel Grant Committee
The "real story" of Rudy, 
rooted in local customs." said America. Gender Studies Program for a announced that checks should
without any "Hollywood 
Cunningham. Cunningham also addressed proposed lecture series. be in the GSU office today.
embellishment." would have 
An independent American the problem of "cafeteria Additional funding for the They are also looking for a rep-
made a better movie, accord-
Catholic Church is "theological­Gender studies program will be see DEVINE I page 4 ly preposterous." according to see FORUM I page 4 provided by the GSU general see GSU I page 4 
upset, but will not sue 
ByJOHN LUCAS Associate News Editor 
Although he is upset by his portrayal in the new film "Rudy... former Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine will not take legal action against Tri-Star Pictures, citing both his wife's health and his commitments to the University of Missouri as more important priorities in his life. 
"Basically. there's not going to be any lawsuit," Devine said. "But I want to say that I was one of the most loyal and de­voted Notre Dame people in the country. and I am very. very. dissappointed in the way the University handled this situation." 
One particular scene in "Rudy" has upset Devine to the point where he and his South Bend attorney. Lyn Leone. had threatened to file a suit against Tri-Star Pictures based on defamation of character. 
"He (Devine) has been in tor­ment about this scene for quite a long time-he certainly wouldn't have retained my ser­vices over a year ago if he wasn't," Leone said. 
The scene in question shows several Notre Dame seniors from the 1975 team coming into Devine's office. ready to 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Editor 
South Bend donned the glit­ter of Hollywood last night for the first time since 1940. host­ing celebrities and a sellout crowd of 2.400 for the pre­miere of Tri-Star Pictures' "Rudy" at the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Cast members Sean Astin. Ned Beatty and Robert Prosky greeted reporters and hun­dreds of spectators as they exited limousines and walked up the red carpet into the the­ater. 
"This is all so wonderful." said Astin. who portrays Rudy in the film. 'Tm very excited to be here. This is an inspira­tional story. a human interest kind of movie. I hope you all enjoy it as much as I have." 
But as Astin arrived. "Rudy" was the only name on the throng's lips. "He's the hero of tonight." agreed Astin. 
"A lot of people worked hard to make this happen." Ruettiger said at a post-show party in the Century Center. "and this is a great way to cel­ebrate and thank them for all they've done." 
Other dignitaries included cast members Jon Favreau and Jason Miller. director David Anspaugh. producers Rob Fried and Cary Woods. and writer Angelo Pizzo. 


-------~-­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Notre Dame ain't no .Drive­thru U 
It is 3:00 a.m. on a Friday and we are return­ing from an evening in Chicago. We're tired, it's late, and we have class in five hours. The people in my car live in Lyons, Howard, Walsh, and Flanner. We approach 

the security gate with the John Potter intentions of dropping the Advertising Executive women off and returning to 02. 
How could we have been so na'ive! Those roads aren't for students to drive on! 
It's a closed campus, I'm assured. They are trying to cut down on traffic. Exactly how much traffic is there on campus at 3:00 a.m. on Friday? I can tell you. since we walked the whole thing-none! 
Now the intentions of this are not so bad, because having a campus accessible a pied is wonderful. especially compared to larger schools with more pavement than grass. But obviously we're not going to park on campus because there is nowhere to park. 
Fine, I thought, I'll adhere to the pointed fin­ger and go out through Stepan to 02. A cordial "sorry" from the officer would have softened the blow, but he was busy talking to the patrol­man sitting in the booth with him. I'm glad they secured the gatehouse. 
What bothers me the most is that when we reached 02, there were two rather suspicious men wandering around. Isn't that a better place for the officers to patrol? 
The next day, I figure I'll try again. Same destination, except it's 4:00 p.m. A different guard. yet I get the same stoic finger pointing at Stepan. 
"Why?" I ask. 
"Are you a student here?" the guard demands. "Yes." "Give me your ID." "No, I'm asking you a question. Why can 
those ten cars who just passed through here drive on campus and I cannot," I inquired. 
"Because it's a closed campus." 
This is a University community with around 10,000 students. So why is it that students are the last ones to be allowed to drive on campus? And if they do let us on because there is a woman in labor in the back seat, they still ask if we have any alcohol in the car! 
Actually, I found the trick to getting on cam­pus in a car. The approach must be timed. 
The other night we figured we would try our luck again. The guard happened to be napping when we pulled up. Upon arousing his atten­tion he let us right through. l guess he was too embarrassed to attempt to dissuade us. 
Let's get down to the issue here. It is time to focus the security efforts of the University on where it is needed-to protect the University and its community. So why do we protect the University from its community? 
Allow the students, before anyone else, to drive on campus. We all know you can't park anywhere on campus, and it's a much less sub­jective rule to allow only students through the gate. Granted, the argument against this is that student parking lots are closer and larger. but realistically we just need to pick up or drop off. 
Notre Dame Security can still allow non-stu­dents to drive on campus. but knows full well that all they do is clutter the campus trying to park. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News Production 
Theresa Aleman Susan Marx 
Corrine Doran Jackie Moser 
Sports Accent Brian Kubicki Tanya Krywaruczenko Lab Tech Elisabeth Heard Scotr Mendenhall Graphics Jake Peters Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i• puhlishcd Monday through Friday exc~pc during ex.:lm and vacarion pc:riud!:a. The: Observc.~r is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 7, 1993 

WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Somali warlord has elusive past 
NAIROBI 
Mohamed Aidid, the Somali warlord accused of order­ing the attacks on U.N. peacekeepers. has never given up easily. 
He once stayed alive in prison. it is said. by eating soap. Aidid then waited nearly two decades for the chance to take up arms and oust the U.S.-backed dictator who imprisoned him. 
To his supporters Aidid is a brave, patriotic and charis­matic leader, and even his foes see the balding, 57-year­old former general as destined to be the next president of the East African country. 
Aidid was trained at military schools in Moscow and Rome, but he is the son of a nomad and, in a country with a rich tradition of rhyming storytelling, fancies him­self a poet. He is a Muslim with two wives and 14 chil­dren, most of whom live in the United States. 
This has not deterred him from attacking American sol­diers and by any measure, Aidid has shown himself to be a man not to be trifled with. Indeed, in Somali, "a}did" means "he who would not be insulted." 
Aidid has largely bottled up half of the United Nations' 
28.000 peacekeepers behind fortified positions in the capital. Mogadishu, and forced a painful reassessment of the U.S. role in Somalia. 
And he has eluded capture for nearly four months despite a high -tech effort by the United States to bring him to heel with an elite group of army Rangers and Delta Force commandos. 
Although in hiding, he demonstrated his power again 
Man freed from prison in health fraud case 
CARVILLE 
A man who switched identities with an uninsured friend so the friend could get medical treatment was released from prison Wednesday after serving nine months for fraud. Benny Milligan, 31, was greeted at the prison gate by his wife and three young daughters. "When can you come home?" one of the little girls asked. "Right now!" Milligan replied. Milligan is unemployed and uncertain where his next job will be. But he said he likely will speak out for a Washington-based consumer group backing President Clinton's national health care plan. His release ends what his wife called a nightmare. "Thank God. it's over," said Tammy Milligan, 28. "Just being back togeth­er as a family will do a lot for all of us." The insurance switch -fraud in the eyes of the law -occurred when James McElveen of Metairie was severely injured in a fall from a cliff while the men and their families were vaca­tioning in Tennessee. On the way to the hospital. Milligan switched identification with the unconscious McElveen, who didn't have health insurance. 
Poets among nominees for Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM 
The Swedish Academy has lots of poets in its pantry, but novelists also are in the running for the 1993 Nobel Prize in literature being announced Thursday. Irish poet Seamus Heaney. Belgian poet-playwright Hugo Claus, Chinese exile Bei Oao and a Syrian-born Lebanese poet who writes under the name Adonis are among nominees the 207-year-old academy has pondered for years as pos­sibly worthy of the world's richest literary honor. When the golden clock at the academy's 18th century headquarters strikes 1 p.m .. the winner of the $825.000 prize is unlikely to be the writer of the latest popular novel. "In the Nobel committee, we would work on a long-term basis." former academy member Lars Gyllensten told the Swedish news agency TT this week. "We have set up a 'pantry.' The ones who have so far gotten the prize have been from the pantry. and some are still in there, but I'm not allowed to say who." 
INDIANA Weather 
Thursday, Oct. 7 
Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 7. 50s 
FRONTS: 
"""T""""""r ..&..A. ......-..,.... COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weathef, Inc 
this week when his militia shot down two U.S. heli­copters. killed 12 American soldiers and wounded 78 in a fierce, 15-hour battle. 
No charges in display of toy to page 
ATLANTA 
The inability of a teen-age legislative page to identify the lawmaker who showed him a fake penis makes it impossible to bring charges, the state attorney general said Wednesday. State Rep. Jimmy Benefield acknowl­edged taking the toy to the House floor on March 23. but said he never knowingly showed it to Jason Bunkley, who was then 13. The toy popped up when an apron covering it was raised. Attorney General Michael Bowers said a Georgia Bureau of Investigation report showed that "in all likelihood" Benefield displayed the toy to the child. but the boy wasn't sure. Bowers said he has no explanation for the boy's inability to identify the individual. "What to do with Rep. Jimmy Benefield now is clearly up to the House," Bowers said. Jason's mother reported the inci­dent to House leaders. but there was no action until she took it to state prosecutors. The House Ethics Committee voted in August to conduct its own investigation but post­poned further action pending Bowers' decision whether to prosecute. 
Teen-ager convicted in "Hail Mary" slaying 
PATERSON 
A former altar boy was convicted Wednesday of stran­gling a teen-ager who died after being forced to recite the "Hail Mary." A jury convicted James Wanger. 19. of Clifton of murder in the Feb. 16. 1992. killing of 17 -year­old Robert Solimine Jr. Wanger's grandparents left the courthouse in tears. declining to speak to reporters, but Solimine's father expressed satisfaction. "I knew he was guilty from day one," Robert Solimine Sr. said. "The way he acted showed he was a cold-blooded killer." Wanger could be sentenced to life in prison with no parole for 30 years. During the trial. Wanger denied he was present when Solimine was strangled in a car. but three other teen-agers who previously pleaded guilty said they watched him kill Solimine. The three, along with Wanger and 18-year-old Frank Castaldo, said they considered Solimine a pest. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY V18A$90CU!IedPress 
Cleveland 70 38 Paris 63 54 Dallas 88 63 Philadelphia 70 45
City H L 
Athens 86 59 
Jerusalem 75 57 Phoenix 84 68
Atlanta 80 62 
London 61 54 Rome 75 57
Barcelona 66 50 
Los Angeles 73 59 Toronto 56 38
Boston 63 43 Minneapolis 61 46 Tokyo 70 59Chicago 78 44 
New York 66 48 
1 
A 
V1a AssOCiated Press GraptucsNat Cl993Accu·Weather.lnc. 
~-~-~-~--~--~-­
RFKJr. to speak on the 
.
environment 
By AMY SANTANGELO News Writer 
Robert Kennedy Jr.. noted environmentalist. will speak at Notre Dame's Stepan Center tonight. He will be presenting a lecture called "Our Environmental Destiny." 
Student Union Board (SUB) representative Bridget Conley is one of the people who made Kennedy's visit possible. 
She said that SUB and Student Activities wanted to bring someone to campus to speak on an issue important to the Notre Dame community. 
They wanted to get away from the area of politics and government. according to Conley. 
Kennedy. currently a clinical professor and supervising attorney at the Environmental Litigation Clinic at Pace 
see RFK I page 4 
The Observer • NEWS 
College of Engineering wants to teach ethics 
ByNICKRIOS 
News Writer 
The teaching of ethics by engineering professors can help produce more ethically con­scious engineers in the work force. according to Jerry Marley. associate dean of the College of Engineering, 
"We should start concerning ourselves with figuring out a way of being careful of what we put into the pipeline; that way we won't have to be concerned with what goes out," said Marley. the first guest speaker in a three part series called Campus Conversations. 
Each person shares respon­sibility for three different levels of ethics. according to Marley. 
"I think the first level of ethics is that of an individual per se. independent of whether they are professionals or not," Marley said. "A person should have some set of ethics that they must uphold at all times." 
The other two levels are the ethical obligation to the em­ployers or those who benefit from the final product and so­cial ethics. Marley said. 
"Socially the engineer must concern himself with the well being of the people and of soci­ety," he said. "For example. say there is a very cheap way of producing a product. but by do­ing it. it results in harm to so­ciety. It is the responsibility of the engineer to be sufficiently ethical not to choose that alter­native of production." 
Among some of the students that attended the conference were Matt Loesch. junior civil engineer. and Chris Falkner. junior mechanical engineer. 
Both asked questions regard­ing ethics in technological engi­neering, environmental issues and practical everyday prob­lems confronted on the job by engineering. 
Falkner expressed concern about how the engineers could help make decisions that could help further destruct the envi­ronment. Loesch. on the other hand. asked whether all engi-

The Observer/Erika Quinn Associate Dean of the College of Engineering Jerry Marley speaks on ethics in engineering. The talk was the first of a three part Campus Conservation series sponsored by student government. 
neer societies provided guide-to Marley. lines concerning ethics in the "The engineer therefore work force and whether the needs not to hold a license to laws provide enforcement for practice," he said. those who act unethically. Although there are laws. they 
The problem is that not many are hard to enforce. according engineers are required to have a license by the state. according see ETHICS I page 4 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
Boulder, Colorado, and Black Balloons at Birthday Parties number, 30, or 40, or whatever, they give you black balloons, as if there was something to regret, as if you didn't want another year of this oppressive toil. Two things I love to preach against are Boulder, Colorado, and black balloons Christians love life. We receive each new day and new year as a gift. In the
at birthday parties. The first attack may not be fair, the second I think is pretty meantime, American culture wants us to hide from death and fear its 
well right on line. approach. It makes sense. Who wants to get old when everybody is going to treat you badly, and try to reject you, and hide you away? Who wants to 
My best friend from high school went to live in Boulder, Colorado, years ago. become a victim of someone else's fear? Who wants to join the crowd of
A lawyer married to a lawyer, he bought a beautiful house set against a marginalized who are never seen in Boulder? Our culture is full of fear and 
beautiful Rocky Mountain backdrop, a young man's dream of what a young invites us all to hide from truth. 
man could acquire. When he isn't overworking, I think my friend enjoys 
Boulder. I never have. But Christians must love truth -the truth of death and the truth of handicap, the truth of poverty and the truth of weakness. That's who we are. Boulder
The thing I don't like about Boulder is how perfect everybody looks. People uses zoning laws and black balloons use dark humor, but we cannot be kept 
are healthy and attractive and spend time keeping it that way. The whole from the embrace of our own lives.
town seems to go jogging in the morning and then rendezvous for big chocolate chip cookies with herb tea in the afternoon. The place is a yuppie fantasy. The downtown has been wonderfully gentrified into a pedestrian mall Tom McDermott, C.S.C. with chic shops and exotic restaurants and leftover longhairs playing acoustic guitar for take-home tips. There are plenty of recycling bins. When you walk the streets, you see plenty of people with stylish clothes and flashy hairdo's, 



Solemn Vespers 
but you never see a woman in hair curlers. 
celebrated every Sunday in Sacred Heart Basilica 
Nobody is fat. Almost nobody is black or brown. Almost nobody is old. You 
7:15p.m.
never see a retarded person. People have one or two kids. Everybody looks happily the same. It feels like the backdrop for a sit-com. I'm sure it must be 
All are Welcome 
some body's definition of the good life. 



One little problem there is that the cost of living is so high that the people 
WEEKEND PREsmERS 
who work in the cookie shops can't afford to live in the town themselves and 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA are forced to stay in satellite villages far ought of sight. Sat. October 9 5:00 ,p.m. Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. 
The poor, the handicapped, the aged seem to be kept far out of sight. Sun. October 10 8:00 a.m. Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. John Conley, C.S.C. 
A colleague of mine recently had her thirtieth birthday. Her husband wanted 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C.
to surprise her by decorating her office with crepe paper and balloons. I collaborated and snuck him the key to her office, only later to balk when I heard he was buying black balloons for the surprise attack. I forced him to listen to my sermonette. 



SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR 
American culture is permeated with a corrosive fe'ar of death. Undergraduates 
THIS COMING SUNDAY
may pay big money to buy fake l.D.'s to prove they are older than they are, but the rest of society spends a fortune on makeup and chin tucks and hair dye to avoid the onrush of old age and the lurking specter of a constantly grim reaper. 
1ST READING Isaiah 25: 6.-10 
In America we hide old people in nursing homes and protected apartments. 
2ND READING Philippians 4: 12.. 14, 19.-20 Grandparents are sadly far removed from their families. If you want to make 
GosPEL Matthew 22: 1.. 14
somebody feel happy, just tell them they look young. 
It's crazy. When you have a birthday party on a year with some kind of special 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 7, 1993 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
Catholicism," where Catholics often pick and choose those Church teachings that they wish to believe. 
This is not a major problem because throughout history this "picking and choosing" has taken place, according to Cunningham. Most Catholics try to live within the Church and follow its teachings to the best of their abilities. 
His worry, however, is that people no longer have a "com­mon store of knowledge" about the Church and that they may not pass down the values that they were taught to the next generation. he said. 
The likelihood of major changes taking place in the Church. including the possibil­ity of married clergy is unclear. according to Cunningham. 
"Changes will not come from the top, but from the bottom," he said. 
Some changes may have al­ready taken place in the types of religious communities, he said. For example, many lay men and women are already conducting liturgies in areas where there are no priests. 
However. Cunningham said. that most people simply have not realized that these changes are taking place right now. 
Look for the special NO football section in this Friday's Observer! 
GSU Devine 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
resentative who can help verify the legitimacy of travel claims from the College of Arts and Letters. The Travel Grant Committee will be holding an informational meeting address­ing the current travel policy on October 13 at 7 p.m. 
The GSU also discussed the upcoming proposal before the Academic Committee that graduate students must be ABD to be fully responsible for a course. ABD is defined as not only passed prelims. but the dissertation proposal has been accepted. Teaching assi­tants. foreign language instruc­tors and freshman seminar instructors are exempt from this requirement. 
Vice President Ed Wingenbach stressed the need for "more decision making . " 
ing to Devine. 
"I happen to believe that the true story was a better story. but I'm not in Hollywood," he said. "I have no complaint about that. I have no com­plaints about anything other than the distortion of what a football team should be." 
Even so. Leone. said that it is her duty to continue to investi­gate the possibility of a suit against Tri-Star. 
"The thing I'm looking at tonight is the evidence support­ing damage to the longtime reputation this man has built up," Leone said. 
After attending the screening of the film last night, Leone said that she will call Devine today and give him her best advice on whether there are grounds in the film to pursue 
legal action. 
r---~====~----~T~h7erDkry=a~rt~m~en~t~o7if>M7.u~s,~·crP~re=se=n~ts~--~ 
Johannes yejfert 
Organist at 1(reuzkjrcfte in 'Bonn, (jermany in a 
quest Organ ~cita[ 
PERFORMING THE MUSIC OF 
J.S. BACH, MOZART, 
MENDELSSOHN, BEETHOVEN, & AN IMPROVISATION 
Sunday 

October 10, 1993 8:00p.m. 
Sacred Heart Basilica 
RFK 
continued from page 3 
University Law School in New York, is a graduate of Harvard University. 
He received his law degree from the University of VIrginia, and a Masters in EnvironmentaJ Law from Pace Universtiy. 
He is a leader in the fight to clean up America's water reservesand has brought suits against companies responsible for polluting the Hudson River and Long Island Sound. 
Kennedy will present his lec­ture tonight at 7:30 in Stepan Center. Tickets are on sale for three dollars and can be pur­chased at either the LaFortune Information Desk or at Stepan before the lecture. 
Ethics 
continued from page 3 
to Marley. 
Ethics in engineering is espe­
cially important when it con­
cerns the safety of others, he 
said. 
"Engineers must keep in 
mind that they have more 
information about how the 
physical world works. and it is 
their duty to pass this knowl­
edge to the world in social 
issues." 
CORRECTION 
A story on page three of yesterday's Observer incor­rectly stated the names of the song writers of the proposed new Saint Mary's Alma Mater. The song writer is Professor Zae Munn while the lyric writers are Professor Ted Billy and Alumna Therese Johnson. 
.------------iliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
Thinking About a Career in the Law? 
Learn about education and career opportuni­ties in this iriformation-packed session! 
Sat., Oct. 16, 9 a.m.-noon  
• Hear from attorneys about careers  
• Learn what's involved in law school  
IIUSB  • Receive a comprehensive infonnaUon packet REGISTRATION ONLY $19 Call for Inlonnalion or Registration 237-4261 Indiana University South Bend  
Continuing Education  


"Tell Medjugorje that I am with you. I bless you. I beg you: protect Medjugorje, protect Our Lady's message!" Pope John Paul D "Medjugorje is a sign to all ofyou and a call to pray and live the days ofgrace that God is giving you ... pray to understand the signs ofthe time. This is a special time. Therefore I am with you ... " Our Lady from Med!ugorle 

September 25, 1993, Message from 
Our Lady, the Queen ofPeace 
Dear Children! I am your Mother and I invite you to come closer to God through prayer, because only He is your peace, your Saviour. Therefore, little children, do not seek comfort in material things; rather, seek God. I am praying for you and I intercede before God for each individual. I am looking for your prayers, that you accept me and accept my messages as in the first days of the apparitions. And only then, when you open your hearts and pray, will miracles happen. Thank you for having responded to my call. 
7:00PM-TONIGHT! Feast of the Rosary-Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
TESTIMONIES TO THE POWER OF THE ROSARY! 

-in celebration ofthe Feast ofthe Rosary-ALL NIGHT ADORATION-LEMAN'S HALL CHAPEL-ST. MARY'S 6:00PM SATURDAY (OCT. 9TH) THROUGH 3:00PM SUNDAY (OCT. lOTH) for information contact CHILDREN OF MARY: CARLY (284-5220) or MARY (284-5219) 
Queen of Peace Mass -October 25th, 6:30 p.m. at St. Anthony Catholic Church in South Bend. 2120 E. Jefferson (comer of Jefferson and Ironwood) -Confessions begin at 6:00p.m. 
Come and receive Our Lady's October 25th message! 
Rides available for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students: Contact Children ofMary (284-5220 or 284-5219) 


If YOU ~Oti,T 6-0T ITJ 6-lT IT.SM 
page 6 The Observer ·NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 7, 1993 
Former fugitive to face prison 
By JONATHAN YENKIN _Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Former anti-war radical Katherine Power. who came out of hiding to confront her past. was sentenced to eight to 12 years in prison Wednesday for a 1970 bank robbery that left a police officer dead. 
"To say that I am sorry for his death seems so utterly. ut­terly inadequate." Power wrote in a letter to Suffolk Superior Court Judge Robert Banks. 
Standing in a packed court­room. she said she "will con­tinue to live my life from this day forward as a responsible citizen abiding by the law." 
Banks. who heard emotional testimony from two children of the slain officer. Walter Schroeder Sr .. went beyond prosecutors· recommendations by also ordering 20 years' pro­bation. 
Violating the probation would make Power liable to a life term in prison. 
"I can think of no greater crime than the one committed by you and your accomplices,'' the judge said. 
Power. 44, surrendered last month after remaining a fugi­tive for 23 years. She pleaded guilty to manslaughter and bank robbery. 
As a student at Brandeis University during the Vietnam War era. she and several other people went on a crime spree in September 1970. robbing banks in Philadelphia and Boston and stealing ammuni­tion from an armory outside Boston. Their goal was pur­portedly to help support a revo­lutionary army. 
Fugitive of 1980s IMC scandal arrested in Spain 
By RICHARD COLE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
A fugitive at the center of a billion-dollar scandal with links to Republican presidents and Democratic politicians was ar­rested in Spain on Wednesday. six years after fleeing the United States. 
Miguel Recarey Jr.• who ran International Medical Centers. fled while under indictment on fraud and wiretapping charges. 
IMC. Florida's largest health maintenance organization. col­lected nearly $1 billion from taxpayers before collapsing in 1987. Regulators said $200 million to $300 million was never accounted for. 
Recarey was arrested in Madrid. the FBI said. The Justice Department will work for his extradition to Miami. said Andrew Duffm. head of the FBI office here. 
At one point in 1988, Recarey was living near Caracas. 
~ 1!), e. I!' l 
Venezuela. and FBI agents complained publicly that the 
U.S. government was dragging its feet on extradition. 
Starting in 1981. Recarey re­lied heavily on well-connected lobbyists and friends to build a small Miami clinic into the na­tion's largest Me~i.care-certified HMO. He paid millions for lob­bying, consulting and legal help. 
All the recipients have denied wrongdoing, saying the pay­ments and their activities were perfectly legal. 
Among those receiving pay­ments were President Reagan's former aides Lyn Nofziger and John Sears. the lobbying firm of President Bush's campaign chairman. the late Lee Atwater, and Bush's son Jeb. 
Democrats also received money from Recarey. including the campaign of the late Rep. Claude Pepper. who even ap­peared in ads for IMC. 
A, L' 
"~r~v'~: 
rJl~N 
ii2¥ 
®lfh'Casti-l~ 
• 
Wolf Tanning Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling wtth Every Lounge 


Tan All You Can for one month $49.95 M~~~!e~o~c?~~!~~s 
with Student I D.
272-0312 
Expires0ctober3!,1993 

"Bridging The Racial Gap" 
October 7, 1993 7:00p.m. 101 Debartolo 
Guest Speakers: 
Dr. Beverley Guy,Sheftall 
Director of Woman Resource Center at Spelman College Mini-Clinic & Masterclass 
Dr. Peeln' Macintosh 
Games Area in LaFortune 
Director of Center for Research on Women at Wellesley College in Massachusetts 
3:00P.M. 
?,:, Police arrest four teens 
By BILL BERGSTROM 
Auo<:iated Pr«~~ 
.-... TALLAHASSEE r Fou,r teen-agers were ar­rested Jn the highway rest-stop slaying of a British tourist. and a judge today \Yarned authori­ties against releasing informa­tion tbat could violate the l>oys' rights. 
,,c-CircuJt Court Judge F. E. "Ted" Steinmeyer lifted a blanket gag order that had been issued in the case 'l'u:esday, but said authorities may not publicize names or other details on the youths ar· restedJ®> · Thcdour boys, oncd3, one 15 and two 17. were arrested in the Sept. 14 death of 34­year-old Gary Colley. who was shot as he rested at an Interstate highway rest stop. His girlfriend. Margaret Ann Jagger of Bradford, England. was slightly wounded in the attack. 
She told WTSP·TV in St. Petersburg that a state official called her in Britain with news of the arrest. 
"For kids so young to get hold of guns. it's scary," she said. "It's sad." 
The gag order forced the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to cancel a Tuesday night news confer· ence about the arrests in the highly charged case. 

Paul Gerni 0
~0 
Nationally Renowned Trick-Shot Artist 
NEEDED: 
Night Manager for 
DISMAS HOUSE 
A community ofstudents and ex-prisoners 
FREE: 
one bedroom apartment with laundry facilities and board in exchange for night management duties which include: 
•,+gyemight dutyh. reports to Director 
Assisting in the creation of thy community atmosphere 
• Attendance at meals and house meetings 
For more information call Bambi Guess Gamer at Dismas House 
233-8522 
~0_ 
ct<:. 

Trick Shot Exhibition LaFortune Ballroom 8:00P.M. 
Professor Aneela Borelli Assistant Professional Specialist of Romance Language 
FREE ADMISSION 
and Literature at The University of Notre Dame 
~ 
e'~ 
nrMI'IIT l'SION 104al 
Sponsored fry Multicultural Student Affairs and !he LiUy Gran! Foundation. 
Valery Zorkin, Chairman of Russia's court, resigns 
By ALAN COOPERMAN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
The contentious chairman of Russia's Constitutional Court resigned Wednesday. ridding Boris Yeltsin of yet another thorn in his side. 
Valery Zorkin had been un­der growing pressure to quit since Monday. when Yeltsin crushed parliamentary oppo­nents and ended his 18-month power struggle with those who resisted his reforms. 
The court is Russia's highest tribunal for constitutional is­sues. Zorkin. a 50-year-old for­mer law professor. had led the panel of 13 judges since its cre­ation in late 1991. 
Yeltsin could not legally fire the chief judge. but the presi­dent's chief of staff reportedly urged Zorkin to quit on Monday. It was unclear whether he would remain a judge. and the ITAR-Tass news agency reported Wednesday he was suffering from an undis­closed illness. 
Rabin,Yarafat name 
• 
peace committees 
By ALLYN FISHER 
Associated Press 
CAIRO 
Yitzhak Rabin and Vasser Arafat got down to the business of turning words of peace into reality Wednesday. but there were signs that generations of enmity would not be easy to erase. 
The Israeli prime minister and Palestine Liberation Organization leader had no handshake for the cameras at their first official meeting. which ended with separate news conferences. 
Still. the longtime adversaries said their 90-minute meeting at Egypt's Unity Palace was con­structive. And they announced the formation of four commit­tees to work out the details of last month's accord on limited Palestinian self-rule in Israeli­occupied territories. 
The task of making peace. al­ready hard. will be made more difficult by continuing violence in the occupied lands. And as at the Sept. 13 signing on the White House lawn in Washington. the prime minis­ter's frostiness toward the PLO chief was noticeable. 
Rabin and Arafat sat in chairs about six feet apart when photographers entered. After some urging. the two men moved to a couch and sat on opposite sides of the Egyptian president. Hosni Mubarak. 
But Rabin refused photogra­phers' requests to shake Arafat's hand in front of the cameras. although his aides said the two later shook hands in private. 
Rabin's coolness recalled his reluctance to take Arafat 's hand as the PLO chief thrust it out when they met briefly for the signing of the peace pact. 
But it was the prime minister who asked for the meeting, out of concern. Israeli officials said. that only a high -level encounter could put the accord into mo­tion. 
1352 Scottsdale Mall • South Bend, IN • (219) 299-9999 
*Located on the Lower Level Next to Montgomery Wards* 
OCT 6 -10 
GENE McGUIRE 
You've seen him on showtime, now see him in person!! SHOWTIMES: 
WED & TIIURS 8:00PM FRI & SAT 8:00 & 10:15 PM SUNDAY 8:00PM 

NDERCLASSMEN! 
\o~~ theJPW Underclassmen Committee 
Information and Sign-Up Meeting Tonight Sorin Room in LaFortune 7:00p.m. 
rs:yo; Ad;i;;ro;.'GeTo"";;e,
I I 1 ~FREE'1ill 1 
I '.'al!d SW1days Only •Expires 11/14193 II I Must Present Coupon lo '~ ~I I~--~ £1 
11JM&f~N~&1 
L 2:_"=·c.:.~o::Y::E=_o_ .J 
Britain to abolish right to silence 
By MAUREEN JOHNSON Associated Press 
BLACKPOOL 
The British government pro­posed Wednesday to abolish a criminal suspect's right to si­lence. a basic principle of the country's justice system. 
The move. announced at the annual conference of the gov­erning Conservative Party. is one of a series of initiatives aimed at curbing a rising crime rate. It was denounced by trial lawyers and civil liber­tarians. 
"The so-called right to silence is ruthlessly exploited by terrorists," Home Secretary Michael Howard said. "What fools they must think we are. It's time to call a halt to this charade." 
Under the new system. sus­pects could not be forced to answer the questions of police. But prosecutors and judges would be permitted to tell juries they could draw a "proper inference" from a sus­pect's silence. 
The government abolished the right to silence in Northern Ireland in 1988 -a change largely aimed at terrorism cases. 
The change announced Wednesday would apply only in England and Wales. Officials in Scotland. which has a separate legal system. said they had not decided whether to make the change. 
The government-appointed Royal Commission on Criminal Justice recommended in July that the right to silence be pre­served. It said the possibility of convicting more guilty sus­pects was outweighed by the risk that increased pressure to talk would result in more inno­cent people being convicted. 
Roger Pannone. president of the Law Society. an attorneys group. is opposed to the pro­posal. which he said would shift the burden of proof to the defendant. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
P@'SY (I Pptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 1-800-328-0206 

E~RESS 
Your Football Weekend Outlet 
Dooley Room-Lafortune Student Center-631-8128 
Hours: Friday, 12:00 -9:00pm Saturday, 8:00am -9:00pm Sunday, 9:00 am -3:00p.m. 
VISA, MASTERCARD and DISCOVER ACCEPTEDI 
______,________ 
-----..­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 7, 1993 
---~-­
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lN 46))6 (219) 63\-7471 SAINT MARv's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor.........•••.... Mercdith McCullough  Advenising Managcr.....................Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .....•........ Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager......................Steph Goldman  
Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser  
Acunt Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Parrick Barth  
Photo Editor ..............................••. Jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the Sludents of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either inSliturion. The news is reponed as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· torials represenr rhe opinion of the majoriry of rhe Ediror-in-Chief. Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accenr Editor, Photo Ediror, Sporrs Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commcmaries. lcnrrs and Inside Columns present the views of the aUlhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of rho Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Observer rhone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4~41  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Spon..1i  631-4543  SySiems/OTS  631-8839  
Nc:ws/l'hoto  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Examining parietals and the Cinderella Syndrome at ND 
such a watered-down proposal Evidently the administration
opportunity to compare notes member of the opposite sex. So why does the administra­
suggests that the university pol­thinks so. They argue that
and clarify your understanding Nevertheless. it is a confound­tion insist that parietals are for icy is waywardly off the mark. members of the opposite sex
of what needs to be understood. edly simple situation common our own good? If parietals were 
Parietals make many Notre together "after hours" is not a
Unfortunately. the hour to many of us. one that should indeed profoundly good. then Dame students feel out of step good thing for peace and quiet
approaches midnight. meaning not happen. there would be no reason to with reality. This time honored in the dorms or in itseH. 
it is time for you and your study Primary culpability for these exclude student opinion from tradition represents one clear That thinking presupposes
partner to disappear from the occasions rests not with the even contributing to the revi­symbol of "gender segregation" that we ourselves would not
dorm. Huddle for not being conducive sion of this ··good" policy. Let's 
with respect to male/female enforce quiet time if we wanted
You head over to the library, to study. Nor with the library stop kidding ourselves. 
relations. We become walking it. That thinking also implies
the most plausible place for which neither stays open twen­The administration believes anachronisms whose interac­studying. Soon. however. you ty-four hours nor does it permit that. in the absence of pari­that we cannot conduct our­tion with the opposite sex is 
selves responsibly from mid­
will be forced to leave. for the food and drink in its hallways. etals, students would be 
curtailed for the sake of foster­building closes in a few hours. In fact, all this running around more likely to engage in sexu­night onward. ing some opaque notion of I don't know if the folke at
You might remark to yourseH. and diversion from studying al misconduct. which at Notre 
student government are takingdecency. One example should "How stupid that I can't eat could have been eliminated Dame. is any form of sexual effective steps to remedy pari­shed more light on my point. while I study." You further rea­swiftly if parietals did not exist. conduct. 
etals or even moving towardTell me if this sounds famil­son. "If I just wanted to eat I I am not saying that quiet If students are so bent on doing away with them. But askiar. You and a friend of the would go to LaFortune," but hours. which parietals ostensi­having sex, then they will opposite sex are studying one yourseH if the present situation
you remember that you don't bly help secure. should be sac­engage in it at other times of night for a major exam the next makes sense. It seems as if we
want to study and eat in the rificed. Quite the contrary. in the day. certainly not just dur­day. You are together in a dorm Huddle, an environment clearly advocating the abolition of pari­ing a time of the day when Big are being made Cinderellas. room. You have read. analyzed. every one of us.
not designed for studying. etals. we could allow for stu­Brother most suspects it. The and reviewed the material for This situation does not dents to study quietly -with stroke of midnight may mean BONG MIQUIABAS
many hours on your own. account for every student's members of the opposite sex. that Cinderella must come Now. you are taking the late-night study options with a Basically. it is a matter of trust. home. but it does not mean that Keenan Hall 

DOONESBURY 
MR. EJIJTT5, 15N'T THeReA fXJIAJN­
...AND 7V H&lP YaJ CA7017Hf3 
51f)f3 70/JU THIS"f! WN'T YOUR
&J<CITtMENTOFAM!3RICAN 
[)(WJ!7V8S WORRY ABOUT lH/3
70FJI./CCO, U/3. CCWIFWV!&s 
WIU /313 f{{J3TIM3 CONCEI<T$, MORAU7Y OF CI<UiT!f.k3 HUG8 7ENNIS lrttrTCH£3'3, 811<& NWMARK£TS fOI< WHAT /?AC£5 JIN[) FA91/0N IS BA'31CAUY Prli50N'f 

5HOWS.t 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
f)J()I<J<'I? OUR 13XIXJ.JT!Vt5 AR&  
PAIPA LIJT NOT 7lJ WORK'// ro  HtY, IAJINN&RS  
YOU THIN!< YOUR.tEA~"UIOR­ fXJ WHAT IT  
PY"AeaJTRJISONING FWPL.f3  TAK!3S.'\  
WHEN TH/3'1 8UIW  
CHEMICAL. PLANTS  
8?31~ RIVE3R5~  

" A dog is only a dog until .t\.he is facing you. Then, he becomes 'Mr. Dog."' Old Wise Man 
~-~----~--~--~-----~---------~--·---~~~r~~----··-~---~--------­
ACCENT 
Thursday, October 7, 1993 page9 
RUDY is here 

Premiere benefits both the South Bend community and movie's cast members 
By KENYA JOHNSON community... said Father Bill Accent Editor Beauchamp. "We're trying to give all citizens opportunities." 
White beams lighting up the But the members of the South sky, police escorts. long white Bend and Notre Dame commu­limos and movie stars -the nities were not the only ones scene is not one with which benefitting. The cast members South Bend is very familar. But enjoyed themselves too -not no one would have known that only at the premiere celebra­last night. tion. but with the movie project 
As TriStar Pictures' "Rudy" as well. premiered at the Morris Civic "''m really excited to be here Auditorium, thousands of peo­and to be a part of all this." ple milled around downtown said Astin. Other cast members South Bend. chilling and chat­shared his sentiments ting with celebrities such as "I loved this part when I first Sean Astin and Ned Beatty. as read it," said Robert Prosky. if it were just another day. who played Father Cavanaugh. 
Although not the most popu­"I had a good time with the 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
lar place for a movie premiere. entire project." 
"Rudy" cast member Ned Beatty escorts his wife into the Morris Civic Auditorium for the premiere. 
the South Bend community Prosky laughed as he remem­received much praise from the ber one scene in which he but about "life. hopes, desires"Rudy" cast. walks through Sacred Heart and dreams".
"It's not like a Los Angeles Church with Father Theodore 
"I was ignored by a lot of
premeire. but I like that," said Hesburgh. 
people because I was a dream­cast member Ned Beatty. "It's a "I seemed to fit right in, like er," he said. "But I wouldn't benice change. I actually think it's the part was made for me." he standing here at this premiereworse to see premieres with a said. 
today if it wasn't for the helphuge crowd from the industry." Beatty also felt that he was and persistence of others thatSouth Bend. and Notre Dame ideal for his role. 
so much drive and recognized
in particular, were thanked "I didn't study the relation­for what it was worth. They
time and time again throughout ship between Rudy and his believed in me" the evening. father very much, but I think 
And that's what it's all about 
"This town gave me every­that worked best," he said. "I according to Astin -believingthing," said Rudy Ruettiger. "It needed to develop my own in oneself. 
gave me a chance to finally relationship with Astin as Rudy 
"This is not a movie about 
prove myself and make some­and feel. for myself. how football, or about Notre Dame." 
thing of myself. Now it's my Rudy's father would feel or act said Astin. "It's an inspirationalchance to give back and cele­in certain situations." 
story about how one young
brate." Beatty said it was "delightful" man fought against all the odds
Not only was South Bend to work with Astin and that 
to accomplish his dreams. It's ahonored with this soon-to-be there is indeed a real fatherly­
message everyone needs to
historical celebration. but the son bond. 
hear. because we all doubt our­needy members of the commu­Probably most pleased with selves at one time or another."
nity will benefit as well. the evening was Ruettiger. 
Astin said that Rudy was a
Proceeds from the premiere "I've watched the movie 23 "figther, not a quitter".
were given to The Center for times and it's still strange to 
"He didn't let anything stand
the Homeless and the Notre see," said Ruettiger. "It's really in the way of what he wantedDame Club of Saint Joseph a powerful. emotional story. 
to do." Astin said. 
Valley Scholarship Fund. The last scene gets me each 
And so it goes: l411en some­
"The Center for the Homeless time." 
one tells you that dreams don 't
has always been an instrumen­Ruettiger insisted that the 
come true, think ofRudy.
tal part of the Notre Dame movie was not about football, 
By MK Kennedy to give them more recognition Accent Writer and encouragement." The international competition 
The Friends of The Snite is open to musicians of all ages Museum of Art will present the and has two different divisions. Fischoff Winner's Tour Concert seniors and juniors. Within the this Sunday at 2 p.m. in the seniors' division there are two Annenberg Auditorium. categories. the wind ensembles 
This year the winners of the and the string ensembles. From Fischoff Chamber Music compe­these, the panel of judges tition are the Amernet String chooses the Fischoff winner. Quartet, composed of Kyoko The Amernet String Quartet Kashiwagi, violin, Marcia Littley was formed in 1989 at Julliard de Arias. violin, Malcolm in New York. They have stud­Johnston. viola, and Javier ied with such eminent Julliard Arias-Flores. cello. musician/professors as Joel 
This is the fourth consecutive Smirnoff and Joseph Fuchs. year that the Notre Dame com­The ensemble was the resident munity will have the opportuni­graduate quartet at Louisiana ty to hear a nationally recog­State University in 1992. nized chamber music ensemble. 
The Fischoff Competition was They are currently pursuing organized by Joeph Fischoff their Artist Diplomas. concen­and the South Bend Chamber tration in Chamber Music at -. Music Society in 1974. Its pur­the University of Cincinnati pose is to encourage emerging College-Conservatory of Music ensembles. both professional under the direction of Eminent and amateur. Scholar, James Tocco. 
"Even so-called 'professional' The quartet has consistently ensembles often have trouble placed in the finals of many getting the exposure they need internationally renowned com­and that's what the Fischoff petitions including First Prize at tries to do," said Jan Herrald, the 1992 Tokyo International executive director of the Chamber Music Competition in Fischoff Competition. "We try Japan.

from his powerful performance in the film. 


page 10 
Thursday, October 7, 1993 
SERV honors vocations 

By HOLLY BUCHAN 
Accent Writer 
In 1987. after fourty-four years of ser­vice at Notre Dame. Herbert Juliano retired and began looking for other ways to do the Lord's work. He attended services at the Grotto regularly and met many students who were questioning entering the priesthood. It was because of his discussions with these students that Juliano decided to form a group he entitled Students Encouraging Religious Vocation (SERV). 
The goal of SERVis to make the mem­bers more aware of their Christian voca­tion. to pray for religious vocations. and to offer support and encouragement to others through sharing prayers. 
Now entering its fourth year. SERV has steadily increased in membership and now stands at a high of 55 student members and 25 associate members. which includes priests. nuns. graduate students and faculty interested in show­ing their support for the organization. 
Juliano's aim is not to report record highs of membership. but to express pride in the quality of the members. 
"It is the quality of the members. no matter how few or how many. that is most important," said Juliano. "Students that care and know or feel that fellow members want to follow a religious vocation and are willing to support and encourage them are the kind of members the program hopes to attract." 
This past summer Juliano decided to expand SERV onto a national level. He sent information to high schools. col­leges and churches around the country hoping to spark an interest in the pro­·gram. and he found the response to be significant. 
"Everyday people are calling or writ­ing me asking for more information. They think it's a good idea and a good concept." said Juliano. 
The National Legion of SERV hopes to establish programs on campuses throughout the U.S. and aid students in the discernment of religious vocations within the context of the Catholic Church. with Notre Dame serving as the focal point of the legion. 
SERV strives to form groups of like­minded peers who can join together and express themselves spiritually. regard­less of whether they choose to enter a vocation or not. 
"Students on campus need to know that there are people who want to assist them in any way they can in discerning a religious vocation," said Tony Popanz. president of SERV. "Males and females contribute equally to the mission." 
Popanz said he considers SERV a vital function in the church today because of the problems it is experiencing with attracting people to the vocations. 
Juliano recently completed his first book titled Notre Dame Odyssey: A Journey Through Sports and Spirituality on the Notre Dame Campus. The pro­ceeds of the book. which is available in the bookstore. are entirely donated by Juliano to SERV for funding the pro­gram's activities. 
The National Legion of SERV's events include a weekly mass for the vocations at Notre Dame. a weekly Rosary at the Grotto and a monthly Way of the Cross along St. Joseph's lake for vocations. 
Other activities sponsored by SERV are "Vocation Vigil," a program which urges students to pray at least one hour per month for vocations. and "Operation Andrew," a program which guides and helps students to select and support a member of their community who is pur­suing a religious vocation. 
Hesburgh highlighted 
ByTONYPOPANZ 
Accent Writer 
This evening, at 8 p.m.. Students Encouraging Religious Vocations (SERV) will sponsor a talk by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. C.S.C. In the Center for Social Concerns Auditorium. In recognition of his great dedication to the priesthood. marked by his 50-year golden jubilee as a Holy Cross priest. Hesburgh will speak on the meaning of religious vocation. and reflect how God's call has touched his life. 
Hesburgh was educated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome, where he received a bachelor of philosophy degree in 1939. After re· turning to Notre Dame. he was ordained a priest of the Congregation of the Holy Cross in Sacred Heart Church on June 24. 1943, by Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne. Following his ordination, Hesburgh continued his study of theology at the Catholic University of America, Washington. 
D.C.. receiving his doctorate (S.T.D.) in 1945. 
In the same year. he joined Ole Notre Dame faculty as a professor of theolo­gy. and served as chaplain to World War II veterans on campus. In 1948, Hesburgh was appointed the head of the Religion Department. and the fol­lowing year was appointed executive vice-president in the adniinistration of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
From June 1952 until June 1. 1987. Hesburgh served as the fifteenth presi­dent of Notre Dame. and he continues to contribute to the spirituality and academic life of Our Lady's university. He has held the longest tenure among presidents of American institutions of higher learning. 
As perhaps the most accomplished and well-known president emeritus in higher education today. Hesburgh remains active both nationally and internationally as a coordinator of ecu­menical and human rights movements. 
For those who are interested in join­ing SERV, a meeting will be held tonight in the same location at 7 p.m. 
Bands, comedy and hairdos featured at 8orin 
By CHRIS LENKO 
Accem Writer 
They've got bands and lip synching. They've got comedy routines and songs. And. by the end of the evening. they may have two bald presidents. 
Sorin Hall will hold its popu­lar talent show this Friday. fif­teen minutes after the end of the pep rally. in front of the hall. Students. parents. alumni and fans can look forward to two hours worth of entertain­ment designed to showcase the best of Sorin's talent. according to Sorin Co-presidents Deitz Lefort and Charlie Eppinger. 
Lefort and Eppinger predict­ed that their contest will draw many people to the 106th an­nual talent show. 
The co-presidents said the Sorin Talent Show plays an ac­tive role in promoting both dorm and campus unity. 
"This is one night when all the guys in the dorm are brought together ... Eppinger 
.... explained. Lefort feels the event has the same effect on the community as the Keenan Revue or the Fisher Regatta. "During the show we let other dorms see what we're all about. and invite other students and their families and friends to join us at the show and the post-tal­ent show party afterwards. " said l.ef ort. Eppinger said that most 
events will be comical and em­phasized that the show will fea­ture more fun than talent. The men of Sorin have spent a long time preparing for the show. clearing the performance with Student Affairs and helping the freshmen put together their acts. according to Eppinger. 
A wide variety of acts will be performed. Freshmen Chris Fahey and his roommate James Bozer are among a group of men participating in a Blues Brother's routine co-ordinated by sophomore James Taylor. 
"Deitz is a Blues Brother. and we'll be playing the trombone and the saxophone," said Fahey. "It will probably be more of a comical than a musi­cal production." 
Freshman Paul Heller and his friend are also looking forward to the Talent Show. "My friend and I are going to try to sing a song I wrote about the Notre Dame/Michigan game. If I can get a karaoke machine we might have background music. If not. it could get interesting." Heller explained. 
The men of Sorin are hopeful that this year's show will fare as well as last year's, when Sorin co-president Scott Curtis shaved his head. The event helped raise more than one thousand dollars for the Center for the Homeless. 
This year. as part of a major fundraising effort. Eppinger and Lefort are competing to see who can raise more money for the Sorin Appalachia trip. Over October Break a group from Sorin will travel to the Appalachia region to help local residents prepare for the long winter ahead by donating sup­plies. material and manual la­bor. 
The trip. which was orga­nized by Sorin senior and resi­dent assistant Curtis. will cost more money than is currently available to the dorm. Each dorm on campus has been approached by one of the two presidents to help with the cost. 
The president who receives fewer pledges will have his head shaved on stage during the Sorin Talent Show. The two men have agreed that if pledges exceed three thousand dollars. both of them will go under the razor together. 
Eppinger admitted that he is­n't too excited about his future as a bald man. 
Eppinger. who described his hair as "thick. red. and very natural looking," has been preparing himself psychologi­cally for the event. asking friends to lend him emotional support. and keep cruel com­ments about his appearance to themselves. 
Lefort is also uncertain about the prospect of being a bald man in the 90's. "Losing my hair will emotionally scar me for the rest of the semester," he of us will end up bald by the predicted. 'Tm sure stock val­end of the evening." predicted ues will rise in the Hair Club for Eppinger. Men." Lefort explained that whoever 

Still. Eppinger and Lefort are wins. the dorm as a whole will more than willing to part with come out ahead. .. Hair will their locks in order to help grow back." said Lefort. "It Sorin Hall raise money for the means more to me that we will dorm's fall break trip to have raised enough money to Appalachia. supply the citizens of 
Both presidents said they are Appalachia with adequate hopeful that the show will be a materials to survive the win­success. "Somehow. I bet both ter." 
~ 
L----------------------------------------------------------~ 
-~~--~-------­
Thursday, October 7, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
Jordan 
continued from page 16 
Flanked by his wife. Juanita. and Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf. Jordan looked relaxed and frequently flashed the coy smile that graces bill­boards and airwaves world­wide. 
He still loves basketball and did not qlle out a comeback. but said he'd never play for an NBA team other than the Bulls. 
'Tm not making this a 'never' issue. I'm saying I don't have the driveright now," Jordan said. 
''Five years down the line. if the urge comes back. if the Bulls will have me and (com­missioner) David Stern lets me back in the league. I may come back. But that's a decision I don't have to make at this moment." he said. 
Stern, who attended the news conference, said Jordan's departure "means that an era is closing, that certainly one of the greatest players to play the game is leaving." 
Jordan's departure follows the retirement last year of NBA greats Larry Bird and Magic Johnson. but Stern said the league is still strong. 
Jordan's graceful athleticism seemed to defy gravity and gen­erated lots of copycats, but no player could match "Air" Jordan's accomplishments. 
Marten 
continued from page 16 
to knock him down off the court. 
With the advent of the multi­million dollar endorsement contract, Jordan doesn't have to stay in the game for the money like his predecessors did. He's got enough stashed away to bet small change in $100,000 chunks on putts. 
So, Jordan is off to search for new challenges. No matter what he decides to do. for him it will be more exciting than hanging around the NBA and waiting for someone to come along who will challenge his accomplishments. 
BBQ
Buffalo 
Taco 
Meatballs
Wings for 
Salad for 
for 20.
20. $55.00 
20. $45.00 
$55.00 
The Works Bar and Grill 
Tailgate Party? 
Our take-out tailgate menu has the Works! 
Just place your order by Friday morning, and stop by to pick up your tailgate picnic! ! 
Cheese 
Veggie
and 
and dip
Cracker 
tray $30.00 
tray $35.00 
37.951 
Classifieds 
continued from page 12 
I HAVE PITT, NEED USC. CALL FOR SWAP. JEFF273-4119 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: We offer love, encouragement and security to the precious life your are carrying; a full-time mom and loving dad; married 12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please call Phil and Maureen at (800)545-8195. 
Sophomores!!! 
Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad, laughter and music in a country home for your baby. Please call Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226­5172 anytime. 
ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE MEMBERS: There is no class at Stepan Thursday. Meet at the main circle at 7:45 for Dan O'Days. Oues? Call Laurie 4·3490 National Coming Out Day is Monday, October 11. Take your next step! 
glndlsmc po 194 nd IN 46556 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE MEETING MONDAY 10/11 7:30pm 107 LA FORTUNE 
KE, 
How's your beau? Bust a move! Ann is not home and she won't return your call EVER!II We'll do lunch -how about San Miguel's? 
Gail Carey turns 21 at midnight­REVENGE IS MINEIIII 
Larimore • Now that our little secret has been discovered by our clever Aussie detectives, I must say good-bye to classi­fied advertising .... but don't worry, we'll get a new code name! (Good luck Amy, Carolyn, and Mo ... you'll never figure us outl) Love, Tara 

.....f!ea-c.n the 1!.E.c-c.et1!. of §famou-c. 
cdll(ak.e-up in a two hou-r. cfa1!.1!.-­
not (-c.om a 1!.afe1!.pe-c.1!.on feani12_3 
oae-c. the counte-r.. C.fa1!.1!.e1!. include !JOU-r. pe-c.1!.onaf makeoae-c. and a photo 1!.e1!.1!.ion. !Book 5-cdll(ak.e­
up a£1!.o lncfuded. Caff 291-2207 
!Beaut , Efe ance 5-d 
TOP 10 REASONS TO WISH CATHIE LOHMULLER A HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
10) She looks like one of us 
9) She let us have a fonnal SECOND semester 
8) She didn't freak out about the donn snake 7)We made security beat more than any other donn on campus last year 
6) She has a dam clean room 
5) She feeds us if we beg 
4) She made Kaaren pick all the tape off the ceiling last year after the SYR (and she did itlll) 
3) What parietals?(Just kidding!) 
2) She picked the best RA's on campus 
1) She's rector of the '92-'93 Donn of the Year HAPPY BIRTHDAY-WE LOVE YOUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII! 
Hi Turtle, Bean, and Laynelll Your bud, 'Who, me??' 
Thanks for the Taco Bell, Katiel Love, Jason and George 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
-~ 


SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refwul your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more information, \:all the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
Dancing atLu 
I
SR 23 &. Ironwood/277-7744 US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 
Winner of the 1992 
byBnan Friel
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 
Tony Award for Best Play Indian Ridge Plaza-Mishawaka/(271-1772) 
Open 8 a.m. on home game days! 1993-94 Season 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats: $7 
Wednesday, October 13 8:10p.m. Student and senior citizen discounts 
Thursday, October 14 8:10p.m. are available Wednesday, Thursday
Friday, October IS 8:10p.m. and Sunday. Tickets are available at 
Saturday, October 16 8:10p.m. the Lafortune Ticket Office. Master 
Sunday, October 17 2:30p.m. Card and Visa orders call: 63 1-8128. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314laForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 r..m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classrlieds must be prepajd. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 7, 1993 

RELIABLE AND HARD WORKING  84 VW Rabbit 4-sale by generous  NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC  Need 1 Pitt & 3 USC GA's  
NOTICES  INDIVIDUALS NEEDED TO MAKE EXTRA CASH SELLING UNIVER·  local alum call 273-4868  CALL JOE@ X1613  GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  Call Katie x1120  
SITY RELATED  ONE WAY TICKET TO  
Typing  T-SHIRTS. APPLY AT:  SAN ANTONIO  DESPERATELY need 2 PITT GA's  SWM still in need. Sell me your  Need 2 GAs for PITT and FSU  
287-4082  LINDA'S FLOWER MARKET  GOING THROUGH CINCINNATI  Call Sharon 282-2965  PITT GA's or Stud Tix. Call Jim at  Will PAY$$$$$ Call Matt 1060  
1635 EDISON ROAD  AND ATLANTA  287-0889  
TYPING Plus computer services  272-0902.  LEAVES THE EVENING OF  NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889  
Term papers. newsletters, etc. Free  OCT 22  (MARK)  PITTTIX  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  
pickup and delivery, (limes will be  Attention -ACDC Students. Part  CALL X 1316  NEED 2 GA'S OR MARR'D &  FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097  
scheduled). $2.00 per page, $10.00  time baby sitter needed for 5 month  Pitt Stu. Tckt.  1 STUD. JEFF 1612  
minimum. Call Linda Green. 674­ old and 4 yr old. $5.50 per hr. Must  Best Offer  2 NOTRE DAME VS. BYU FOOT­ 
4160  have own transportation. Call Lea  ONE WAY TICKET TO  Manuel 4-0505  NEED USC GA'S FOR MY PAR­ BALL TICKETS FOR SALE  
272-5029.  SAN ANTONIO GOING  ENTS. CALL JIM @ 289-6648.  BEST OFFER.  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  THROUGH CINCINNATI  NEED 8, YES 8, PITT GAS, MIKE  On 15 yard line, row 15.  
CALL 259-8684.  MAGICIANS-willing to donate 1/2  AND ATLANTA  AT 271-8641  Call Dave in Utah at 801-373-2931.  
hour of time to entertain disadvan­ LEAVES THE EVENING OF  
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS:  taged children on 10/16 from 9-1:30  OCT 22 CALL X 1316  4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC  
LONDON MAY 18-JUNE 19,  cali4-2131  I NEED stud tix to USC & PITT  NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT.  2 FSU GAs x1850  
CLASSES IN  par favor bitte se vous please  CALL JIM@ 289-6648.  
ART,BIO,BUEC,HIST,SOC-TRAV­ SPRING BREAK '94 -SELL TRIPS,  call Josh 234-2853  I NEED 1 STUD TICKET FOR PITT  
EL IRELAND,SCOT,ENG,FRANCE.  EARN CASH & GO FREElII  '79 NISSAN/DATSUN 210,4 DR.,  HAVE:2 PITT GA'S  LISA X25691  
ROME-JUNE 12-JULY 11 TRAVEL  Student Travel Services is now hir­ ST. WGN., LOW MILES, RUNS  NEED:2 BC GA'S  
INFRA, SWITZ,GER,ITALY·  ing campus reps.  GOOD, GOOD TIRES. $750.  HELP! I need Pitt GA's-Steve 1217  ANY DEALS? -KEVIN X3240  WANTED: 3 USC GA'S  
CLASSES IN  Calll-800-648-4849.  232-7454.  CALL LIZ X1912  
LIT,ITALIAN,HIST,SOC. MEETING  NEED FLORIDA STATE GA'S.  NEED ANY BC TIX  
OCT 11, 6:30 PM CARROLL  AIRLINE TICKET, FALL BREAK  MUST HAVE!! CALL 272-7233.  HAVE USC STUD TIX  
HALL(SMC).  Need a quiet place to study? We  ONE-WAY TWA, M or F, So. Bend  PETE:237-0659  NEED GA FOR PITT CALL  
need babysitters for some evenings  to Albuquerque via St. Louis.  FOR SALE: GA'S ALL GAMES.  X261911  
and weekends for our 4 yr old. We  Lvs. Fri. Oct. 22, $100.  277-1659.  $$$ Need 1 FSU Stud. or GA $$$  
NEED SOME EXTRA CASH????  have a quiet apartment at Castle  Chris x4107.  Eric 4-1251  STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE  
Point. Call 273-2528 LM.  232·0253  
Adworks needs distributors to hang  I have Xtra Depeche Mode tix for  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT., USC &  
posters around campus. Many  Oct28 or 29,Chicago. 259-0219  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2tix  NEED FSU TIC-WILL TRADE USC  
routes available and hours are very  AGGRESSIVE STUDENT  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  AND/OR BC ST TIX. CALL  
flexible. Call Dave Brower at1­ $10-$20-$30 PER HR.  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  DENISE x4879  
6757 for more information.  UNIQUE ON -CAMPUS OPPOR­ 1982 TOYOTA CELICA GT, 5  PITT,USC,FSU,BC STUD TIX FOR  
TUNITY  SPD., $1,500-VERY NEGO­ SALE X2975. LVE MESS. AND  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  •••FOR SALE•••  
HELP BUY TEXTBOOKS  TIABLE Ul CALL 271-1866  BEST OFFER  Call Frank or John  
RECEIVE CASH AND PROFIT  1-800-7 49-5975  4 PITT GA'S: 20 YO-LINE.  
############################  COMPLETE TRAINING  Will trade DISNEY tickets  CALL BILL AT 291-6216  
NEED A D.J.???  MUST HAVE CAR FOR FURTHER INFO CALL 219­ TICKETS  NEED PITT TIX  •••GORGEOUS GAL••••••••••••••  
Call Adworks for professional DJ'sl  489-7154 ON 10-7 & 10-11  STU OR GA  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2  I REALLY NEED 2 USC GA'S  
Our rates are among the lowest on  5:00 TO 8:00 P.M.  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  AILEEN X4290  FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616.  PLEASE CALL ELIZA AT X:2703  
campus! ADWORKS-1·6757.  TIXS.272-6306  ••••••••••••GORGEOUS GAL••••••  
We need a Kegirator. Interested in  Need 1 BC stud. tick!.  NEED 2 USC GA'S  
############################  selling us one. Please give us a call.  Heidi 273-2661 $$$$  KEVIN X1215  NEED 2 PITT GA'S. BIG $$$. CALL  
234-2793  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  MCKENNA AT 4-1223.  
Need Business Cards?  HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL  Help! Need 3 Pitt GAs  
-call Adworks 1-6756  JANE AT 1-800-264·3278.  Katie 273-6324 $$$$  I NEED 3-4 USC GA'S X1781  
LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY II  Anybody going to NJ over break? I  I NEED FLORIDA ST. TIX  
ILOST & FOUND I  need a ride. Will help with gas, tolls, etc. Call Elaine x2342  $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT  My little brother loves NO football  PLEASE!! I I NEED FSU STU TIX. THERESA X2756  STUDSorGA­call Tim x1230  
273-6588.  and has never seen a game and will  Need 2 USC GA  
Lost: Copy Card. Left on the sec­ --ROOMATE WANTED-­ be here for FSU ...please call Mike if  Max x1088  •••HEY DOMERs•••  
ond floor at noon on Sept. 30. Says  you have tix. 271-1706  Please help my little bro see his first  
"Fraser". Please return to library  FOR SPRING SEMESTER '94  $$$$$$$$$  HELP!!! I NEED PITT STUD TIXI  NO game. I need 1 GA/STUD for  
Lost and Found.  @TURTLE CREEK, 5 MIN. FROM  FSU TIX NEEDED  CALL MIKE x4-0542  PITT! Don't make him watch the  
CAMPUS.....CALL ED@273-9581  call JILL x3352  I need PITT GA's Please HELP!  game on my TVI!I  
4-1103Greg  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$  call TIM x1786  
LOST: J-Crew Bam Jacket (Olive  I need a ride to and from DC  
green) btw. 9-22 & 9-27. Please  leaving before USC. Call 1293.  FSU TIX NEEDED!!!!!!!!  We will purchase at handsome price  I need 4 Pitt GAs. Call Joan at  
contact Mike @x1166  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  four seats together for the Florida  (618) 288-3502 after 4 p.m. or  Will give FSU Stu. Tix. or$ for 2  
PLEASEII  State game. Pis. call (800) 457­ (618) 656-0057 ext. 253 before$.  Pitt. G.A.'s. CALL x4875  
0486.  
LOST NO class ring with full name  WANTED: LOCAL REAL TOR  NO vs USC -Need tickets for  
on it lost 9/25 Purdue weekend in  SEEKING HOSTESSES TO  10/23 game.Chris Marks  Will trade USC student ticket for a  #$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
SORIN 1ST floor or basement  HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES.  800-523-3139.  Pitt student ticket. Please call Mike  +  
REWARD $$150 $100 if you know  FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2-4  at 273-2059.  I need 2 Pitt tix either GA's or stu­ 
of whereabouts-no names or  HOURS PER DAY, VARIOUS  Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any  dent.. ...  PITT. GA'S FOR SALE  
questions asked PLEASE call Ryan  DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE  combination. $Call Amy 2658  CA Alum paying top $ for FLA  BEST OFFER  
at 634-2290 or room 105, 103  AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566  Call Andy at 634-2706  CALL JOHN 277-4953  
SORIN THANK YOU  REALTY 282-2351. 9·5 MON-FRI  I NEED PITT TICKETS, GA PRE F­ 
E RED call Tim at x1225  3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­ #$$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#$#  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
LOST: blue London Fog jacket with liner, around Oct. 1. Call Eric  FOR RENT  Alumni needs 3 tickets for USC  9309  +++  
at3376.  game will pay $ Call Skip collect @  Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers.  Need 2 stud. tix for Pitt. Call Chris  I NEED A PITT TICKET­ 
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ (602) 998-7576  Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta  at4323.  G.A. OR STUD! II  
LOST: Black Eastpak backpack  Private.  (404)396-8715.  CALL TRACEY x1346  
containing my "life" (I.e. computer  257-9101  NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA  
disks, books, loafers) Last seen  STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ I NEED 1 BC GA FOR MY MOM  FOR SALE: 2 PITT GA's  Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks  
SOH. Please return. I NEED MY  LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  8826 AFTER 5 PM  WHO'S COMING FROM WASH. !!  277-80171eave name and offer  Matt 232-3870  
STUFF!II Reward offered. x4944  SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  BETH-x3620  
CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM·  I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY  Need 4 USC GA's  FOR SALE: 2 PITT GA's  
WANTED  PUS $225. M0.272-6306  MIKE x2292  PLEASE HELP I I NEED 1 GA OR STUDENT TICKET FOR USC.  Call Jeff x2000  50 YARD LINE call and make an offer  
PITT AND USC GA s  CALL KELLY @4270  Have 2 USC GAs, need 2 FSU GAs  marianne 273-1420  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ·  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  WANTED FOR RICH  pis call Pat 634-3281  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR·  ALUMNI $$$232-1348  I NEED TIXS FOR PITT, USC AND  I NEED PITT GA'SIII  
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the  DEN. ONE ROOM LEFT. $235.  BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEY!II  CALL KATHLEEN 273-8562  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  EAST RACE AREA. JOG, BIKE,  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  CALL AARON @ 271-2908  NEED 2 USC GAs 634-1786 DESI  
Career employment available. No  BUS. 232-8444.  WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL  
experience necessary. For more  Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  412-352-3216  
information call 1·206-634-0468  ROOMS FOR RENT, FURN,NEAR  2 PITT GA'S FOR SALE  
'  ext.C5584  CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW.272-6306  Desperate lifelong NO Ian needs  
NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA  FOR SALE .....FOR SALE•••••  two Florida State/NO GA's. Will pay  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • fisheries. Earn up to $200Q-$4000 or more  FOR SALE  STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  2 MARRIED STUDENT BOOKS 1 STUDENT BOOK FOR ALL  best offer  top dollar! Call 1-407-788-1582 after 5pm.  
per month on fishing vessels or in  GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ REMAINING GAMES  call Heidi @ 4-2494  
canneries. Many companies provide  8 AIRLINE TICKETS FOR SALE  1429  ••••••••••••••••KEVIN 271-8641  $$$ NEED TO UNLOAD 4 FSU  
transportation and room & board.  Orange County to Chicago 10/21  GA'S ASAP! CALL BEN OR PETE  
No experience necessary. Male or  Chicago to Orange County 10/24  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Need 2 USC GA's  URGENT!!!  ANYTIME AT X 3248 $$$  
Female. For more information  Only $333/each round trip  Adm. only.  Will pay $100 ea  I need 1 stud. ticket for Pitt.  
call: 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584  Michelle Coleman 800-854-4643  Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162 •.  x1868  Call Pat X2066. God bless.  4 SALE PITT TIX CALL MATT 1928  
x1515 all hours  (W) 201-992-8700  
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  NEED 2 USC GAs; WILL TRADE  HELP! Want to trade my pair of  
BRUNO'S NEEDS Drivers! Ill  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  ALUMNUS SEEKING 2 PITT GA'sll  2 BC GAs,1 BC & USC STUD,$$$  Billy Joel tixs for Fri. 11-19 for yours  
PT lor Campus Deliveries.  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  NEED 2 FSU GA's  WILL PAY BIG$$. CALL SUSAN  271-7807 Chris  on Tues. 11-16?Call MISSY  
Call John 288-3320  Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6  FOR DAD'S BUSINESS FRIENDS  AT 4-1285.  X3719.  
$$$$$NEED MONEY??$$$$  days includes12 meals $2791  FROM FLORIDA WITH LOTS OF  
Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291  GREEN II $$$ IS NO OBJECT!  For Sale:  Helpll I need 1 Pitt. ticket!  
Cancun from Chicago $439,  CALL DOUG X1067  Call Jackie at2507.  
- $700/wk cannery workers; $4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska lish­ Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/  FLA ST STU. TIX FOR SALE! SERIOUS $$$$ONLY  ENTIRE BOOK OF STUDENT TIX  
ing industry now hiring for next sum­ Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386  Need 2 GAs for any home game  CALL CHARLES AT x1055  Leave name, # , offer at 273-4038  Please help mel  
mer. 11,000 openings. No exp. nec­ Call Tim at 273-1757  
essary. Free rm. & bd. These jobs  DEPENDABLE 1986 PLYMOUTH  Selling 1 Pitt Stud-Pete @273­ Need 1 Florida State student ticket.  
go fast! Employment Alaska. 1·206·  DUSTER CALL HOLLY 271-8940  5909-Leave name, #, offer.  
323-2672  Call Colleen at 273-5901.  
SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  I have 2 BC GAs and 1 BC stud. I  STUD TIXBOOK FOR SALE  
NEEDED: Artist tor commercial pro­ SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  need 2 FSU tix (GAs or studs). Call  CALL@ 273-3140  Have 2 Pitt, 2 USC to trade for FL  
ject. Newspaper ads, blw drawings.  CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO NO  Theresa before 10pm at x4312.  6-8 PM  ST or sell. 271-5618  I Need Pitt GA'sll Call Steve 1217.  
Great resume experience! The  VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  
Works Bar & Grill 501 N Niles Ave  NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  I need 2 pairs of PITT GA's  TRADE TICKETS:  need 1 pitt-stud tik-cafl mike-233­ 
237-9757  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  call nm 237-1012$$$$$  4 BYU FOR 4 USC.  Need 1 Pitt GA. Chris at 273·6588  2387  
284-5062  CALL BOB (818) 793-9254.  
 
see CLASSIFIEDS I page 11  
'  

Thursday, October 7, 1993 
Siegfried drops P. E. in overtime to even record at 2-2 
By CRISTINA CORONADO 
"It was an exciting win. We position of tightend. second half. Farley scored the Sporn writer are quite happy with how it "Both Julie Fleck and Kim only six points in overtime to turned out." Siegfried player Gold played great and stepped surprise the favored Purple 
In women's interhall football, Kelly Duffy said. up into the positions they were Weasles. Siegfried Hall slid past the 
Siegfried hopes to carry their needed in," Lewis coach Nick Pasquerilla East Pyros last 
victory into their game with Harmon stated. Reserve quarterback Tiernee night in overtime. The game 
Pasquerilla West. The Lewis team scored again, Lucke ran the ball in for the remained scoreless until the 
"We want to gain momentum with a pass from Fleck to Katie touchdown. The team missed Siegfried team scored the win­
to play P.W.," Luzio added. Coughlin. ''The offense worked the extra point, when quarter­ning touchdown during their 
really well today," Fleck added. back Molly Riestenburg was first overtime drive. 
Lewis 18, Knott 0 Defensively, Lewis kept the sacked at the ten yard line. Siegfried's defense kept the 
Lewis Hall shutout Knott Hall game scoreless, which is their Defensively, Farley Hall had Pasquerilla East's offense from with a score of 18-0 last night third shutout this season. The one interception by outside entering the end zone the entire at Cartier Field. Lewis' record Lewis defense has only had 6 linebacker Melissa Mapes. time. "Our defense was the is now 3-1. putting them in points scored against them. The Pasquerilla West team best I've eve-r seen them," playoff position. "Our defense has been great," lacked many players. including Siegfried captain Angie Luzio The Lewis offense was explo­Harmon said. starting quarterback Bethany stated. Meg Frost had a key sive attaining three touch­The Knott team is looking to Riddle. due to the premiere of game. The Siegfried team
interception for the defense as downs. Julie Fleck stepped up improve their record of 0-4. 'Rudy.'
managed to create offense with 
well. to play quarterback for the first "We're getting better." junior "We didn't have half of our 
key catches.
The Pasquerilla East defense time today. because the original Beth Hanlon said. "We're not team," Pasquerilla West player
"Kathleen Clarke was pulling
also played extremely intense. quarterback Mary Beth Failla getting the plays the other team Kathleen Glines said. 
passes out of the air," Luzio
"Our defense played well. We was at the infamous 'Rudy' is getting. We just need a little 
stated.
held them the whole game," Premiere. luck." The Farley team was also 
Clarke had the only touch­
Pasquerilla East captain Nina Fleck threw two twenty yards missing many of their offensive 
-
Delorenzo said. The down of the game. passes to score the first two Farley 6, line because of the premiere. Pasquerilla East team now has Quarterback Angie Luzio threw touchdowns. Both passes were Pasquerilla West 0 Despite the lack of some start­
to Clarke in overtime. after
a record of 2-2 as well. received by Kim Gold, who Farley just beat Pasquerilla ing players. the Farley offense 
Offensively, both teams were Pasquerilla East didn't score on played Julie Fleck's original West in a scoreless first and performed well. their first attempt in overtime. 
kept scoreless for most of the 
Lyons hopes to avoid letdown tonight 
By SCOTT CLEMENTE It was the team's first victory of loss so I'm sure they'll be com­Sports Writer the season. but they seem to be ing at us extra hard," said steadily improving. Wassil. 
The fourth round of women's In order for Walsh to win The game will most likely be interhall football will take place they will have to shut down the one of the toughest games tomorrow night as some of the Lyons offense. Sophomore Howard has played so far. "We top teams in the Gold League Genna Gwynn, who had an in­are going to have to play very face off. terception for Walsh on well to beat Badin," added 
No. 3 Lyons takes on No. 7 Sunday, thinks the defense is Wassil. Walsh in the game that will up to the task. highlight the schedule. Lyons is "Our defense is strong," stat­Breen-Phillips vs. coming off a triple-overtime ed Gwynn. "But we'll have to Pangborn victory of previously unbeaten watch out for the long bombs Also on Thursday. Breen­Badin Hall. The win caused and concentrate on not letting Phillips will take on winless Lyon's power pool ranking to any receivers behind us." If the Pangborn. B.P. stands at No. 8 rise five and they are now con­defense is able to accomplish in the power polls after a 14-6 sidered one of the better reams this, Walsh will have a very loss at the hands of Walsh. in the league. good shot at upsetting Lyons. Pangborn, whose record stands 
They are led by quarterback at 0-3. is coming off a 24-0 Julie Byrd and receiver Wendy Badin vs. Howard whitewash at the hands of Holthaus. both of whom were In the first game of the Howard. instrumental in the upset of Thursday night schedule, fifth­B.P.'s offense which opened Badin. ranked Badin will take on sec­the season with a 37 point per­
Walsh is coming off a victory ond-ranked Howard. as Badin formance against Lyons has over Breen-Phillips last Sunday. tries to rebound from Sunday's struggled recently and could 

ROBERT KENNEDY JR. 
"OUR ENVIRONMENTAL DESTINY" TONIGHT 
7:30PM $3 STEPAN CENTER 
loss to Lyons. Howard sits atop continue to do so. This week the Gold Division standings and they have lost both of their run­is one of only two undefeated ning backs to injury. teams left in the league. "This definitely limits our 
Sue Wassil, the quarterback offense, but we have been for Howard, thinks that this working on some new things in could give Badin some extra in­practice that should compenste centive. "We're undefeated and for the losses," said B.P. coach they are coming off their first Chris Jones. 
-
'THECOMMONs·~ 
.~pr;Oft' . OPEN DAILY FROM '~ 
· · 4.P.M.-T03-A.M. 
The sensual newfilm based on the acclaimed 
·novel by jean Rhys. 
HOT-BLOODED ... you'llbe swept away!" 
-DatJmt DrNU, WOMAN'S OWN 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 7, 1993 
Morrissey awaits struggling Grace
St. Ed's hopes to continue 
By G. R. NELSON had trouble capitalizing once Sports Writer inside the red zone. For
early success against Alumni 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA SpomWriter 
St. Ed's, after winning their first game in six years, is back In action this week against an Alumni team that lost last weekend. St. Ed's beat Sorin by recovering a blocked punt for a touchdown with 1 :45 left in the game. Alumni failed to score a point in their 19-0 loss to Fisher. 
"We played well." said Alumni coach Paul Zachlin. "We just couldn't put the ball in the endzone." 
St. Ed's is riding high with a 1-0-1 record. Their offense controlled the ball almost the entire game last weekend 
-
against Sortn. 
"Our offensive line just domi­nated the line of scrimmage,'' said Steds junior captain Greg DeSouza. "We just have to keep 
tting hard and playing well." 
Cavanaugh vs. Carron 
Cavanaugh resumes their schedule against a Carroll team that has a dominating defense and a suspect offense. Carroll tied St. Ed's 0-0 in the season's first week and lost to Zahm last weekend 8-6. 
Cavanaugh had a scoreless tie against Zahm two weeks ago. 
Belles' soccer prepares to face Calvin College 
ByMARYGOOD Spons Wri1er 
The Saint Mary's soccer team is facing a challenging match this afternoon as they take on Calvin College in Grand Rapids. MI. 
After their victory over DePauw last Saturday. the Belles' spirits are high. They had a couple days of rest and some good practice time. according to coach Tom Van Meter. 
"We are anxious to get back and play," he said. 
The team has suffered some injuries in recent weeks. but three key players recovering from knee injuries have been practicing for today's game. 
Seniors Patty Hand. Molly O'Connell. and Mandy Eiler all suffered knee injuries earlier this year. and may be available to play depending upon their progress. 
"Their status still remains day-to-day," Van Meter said. 
Today's matchup is going to be a difficult one for the Belles. Earlier in the season the Belles were defeated by Kalamazoo who subsequently suffered a loss to Calvin. 
"This is a very important game," said sophomore Rita Juster. 
Van Meter also feels it is a key match. but admits it won't be an easy one. 
"It is going to be a break either way." he said. "If the team executes the way it did against DePauw. I think we have a good chance." 
A Night ofMexican Culture! 
Balct Folklorico Dance Co., Santa 
Lucia (from Monterrey, Mexico) at 
Stepan Center on Oct . 8 
Stanford to turn yards into The top match-up of week points. tailback Lamar Guillory"Our defense has been solid," three in men's gold league in­must get more carries.
said Carroll coach Marty Ogren. 
terhall football pits No. 2 Stanford's defense. despite
Their offense has only scored 6 Morrissey against No. 10 allowing a long touchdown run 
points in two games. Senior 
Flanner. to Flanner. remains very con­tailback Mike Bell and senior Morrissey is coming off an fident. 
fullback Hastings Seigfried are 
impressive 20-0 defeat of "I feel like our defense will players to watch for Carroll. 
Grace. a game in which they easily stop their offense." said played nearly flawless football. hard-hitting middle linebacker Cavanaugh's defense shut 
Morrissey's offensive line con­Brett Galley. "When we scrim­down Zahm in the first week, 
trolled the line of scrimmage. maged them. we had no prob­but their offense never got 
their backs ran well. and they lem. I'm sure they're committed no turnovers. improved. but we are hungrystarted against Zahm's defense. 
Flanner also played very well and angry."
The defensive player to watch 
last Sunday, tying then top­Grace vs. Off-Campus
for Naugh is sophomore defen­ranked Stanford. George Grace battles Off-Campus in asive back Joe O'Malley. 
Reider. Morrissey's captain. game where both teams areExpect a low scoring game 
knows how tough Flanner will searching for their first victory. 
for these two teams as they 
be. but he remains confident. Off-Campus opened the season 
both try to move up in the 
"I imagine it being a very tough with a tough 6-0 loss to second­rankings and qualify for the 
game," said Reider. "But I'd ranked Morrissey and had a playoffs. 
stack my team up against any­bye last week. They are rested body." and ready to go. Zahm vs. Sorin 
Stanford vs. Keenan Grace lost 20-0 to Morrissey Another marquee matchup last week and have been involves fourth-ranked Stanford outscored 46-0 on the year.
Zahm, coming off a win against sixth-ranked Keenan. Grace's quarterback Eric
against Carroll. faces a Sorin Both teams are undefeated and Hillegas believes part of the team that has had two tough this has the makings of a great reason for the disappointingloses. Sorin lost to both St. Ed's 
game. Keenan beat Dillon 3-0 performances is youth at sever­and Fisher by a touchdown. 
on a last minute field goal on al key positions and a new Zahm tied Cavanaugh and beat 
Sunday. complex offense. Carroll in their two contests. 
In that game. Keenan's But Hillegas is taking the Sorin sophomore captain Pete 
defense was superb. but their losses in stride. Slease was displeased with his 
offense struggled. For Keenan to have a chance against a 

10/5 TEAM REC. 9/28 
1. Fisher 2-0-0 4 
2. Morrissey 2-0-0 6 
3. St. Edward's 1-0-1 10 
4. Stanford 1-0-1 1 
5. Zahm ... 1-0-1 3 
6. Keenan 1-0-0 ­7. Cavanaugh 0-0-1 2 8. Dillon 1-1-0 5 9. Off-Campus 0-1-0 9 
10. Flanner 0-1-1 8 
11. Alumni 0-1-0 ­12. Carroll 0-1-1 11 13. Sorin 0-2-0 7 14. Grace 0-2-0 12 
STANDINGS 
GOLD DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
1
. Morrissey 1. Fisher 

2. 
Keenan 2. Zahm 

3. 
Stanford 3. St. Ed's 

4. 
Dillon 4. Cav. 

5. 
Flanner 5. Carroll 

6. 
Off-Campus 6. Alumni 

7. 
Grace 7. Sorin 


Observer graphic 
team's performnance last 
well-balanced Stanford squad.
week. "We didn't play well at 
This Weekend in Notre Dame Sports

they must get more productivityall," he said. "They controlled out of their offense. 
Let's Go Irish!
the ball too much." 
Stanford is angry after their
The players to watch for 
"embarrassing" performance
Sorin are quarterback Jeff 
last Sunday. a 6-6 tie against 
Friday October 8 
Faragher and receiver Ted 
Flanner. Stanford moved the 
#3 Notre Dame Women's Soccer 
Mahan. 
football well. generating over 200 yards of total offense, but 
vs. Xavier 7:30pm Alumni Field 
#14 Notre Dame Women's Volleyball ~ vs. Alumni in a "Reunion Match 11 I "i( 8:00pm JACC Arena 
~I 
FREE ADMISSION 
Sunday October 10 #3 Notre Dame Women's Soccer vs. Evansville 
I:00 pm Alumni Field FREE ADMISSION with football ticket stub 
~N Esp ~tr Spanish Mass~1)_ 
~ domingo, 10 de Octubre de 1993 ~ 
11:30 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
1141 
0Mf'U5 
MNISTRY 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Celebrant• 
Padre Timothy Scully, C.S.C. 
Sponsorwc:l by Clmpus MlnnrtryCoro l'rlmnva if• Nuestra Senor3 


I 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Laborer's 63 Happening payment 64 Clear. as a tape
1 Risky venture 33 Refrain syllable 65 Hallow follower6 Diamond 36 Melodrama role 66 They can take a
surface 41 Greek letter 
yard11 Collegian's 67 The Ryan in 29 
"Ole!" 42ln --(sulking) 
Down
14 Guadalcanal 43 Great Barrier river Island 15ldolize 44 Statue with DOWN 16 Pitcher's stat 
limitations 1 Took to one's
17 Adjective for a 46 People loafing heelsmelodrama along 2 Elegance19 Supplement 49 Melodrama role 
3 --instant (at
20 Retreat 52 Study or cuddy 
once)21 Wagon on 53 Bacteriologist 
4 Flip ingredienttracks Dubas 5 Motley crowd 22 Keyhole 54 Choose 6 Electrical units 
23 Melodrama role 57 Broadcast 
1 Second U.S. 27 Households 58 Vehicle for a President Jo Washes melodrama 
8 Canvas bed 31 Suffix with 62 Broadway show 9 Before. to Byron origin re Capote 
10 Koppel or Koehler 11 Property ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Fervency 
---.---.--.---, 13 "It--Be You," 1924 song 
32 Lb. ortn. 48 A major German 55 City NNE of 1-'-1-'-+'--+=-ili.r-::+-'-~-iir.::+:t+=-B 18 Sea eagle 34 Whaler's cask port Livorno 56 Kett 
~~~~~~ 22 Andress film: 35 Collections of 49 Infuriated 
contemporary 23 Hound's quarry 5oBete-­58 Emulate Dorcas 
~~~~~~~ 1965 quotes DINING HALL 
37 Painter Chagall 24 King of Norway: 
38--dixit
1957-91 
39 Rialto light
25 Yuletide trio 26 Daredevil 
40 Relax lazily Knievel 45--Paul 27 Neither fem. nor Kruger, famed neut. 
Boer -:++.+:-+:::-i 28 Do aquatints 46 Ten-percenters .:-:+.=+-::+-:-+:::-i 29 Like some Ryan 47 Horehound, 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
games e.g. 
Acoustic Cafe Thursday Nights 9pm-12pm 
..
in the Huddle 
Friday Oct. 8 South Dining Hall 
-
"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" 
Thursday Oct. 7 8pm and 10:30 pm
9pm until 2 am 
Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Center 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
SPELUNKER 
Gf-1 oulll\ "BED, HANK. 'YOU'LL B~ L-ATE: FOR CLf\S<;). 
I GO\ f>.. 
SMILE'( 1=-t>.CE snc.Kt:.R Ot-1 1'-\'l Q\..1\Z.. 
~~ ~ 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
~E"\ '"De.s, CAN I ASK. ~ou Com(. A CoPIER A Gtvi::STIO N? 
I 
M'/ BED Fft:L'S SO GooD -m1s MtJ<.N­IN6 M'/ PLtASURf 
C~N1tRS HA 1/E: STAC:.ED A couP D'ETP.T AND TA~N 
CoNTRoL OF M'/MOTOR CENTt:RS. :I: CAN'T I')OV£. 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
I 0\DN.'I E.'J£1:{ \(\'-\OW 1\-\E'( MAP£ 
HP..R\=\1'\G ~t>-C.E 
ST\CK'i:.RS. 
A~E.'1TE"'-GvE.STION' f.l<>w Come. 
f Nut..IS~ /Y1AJo"-" 1-\Ave. 
E0:rJ'f'ill.E.c'1 Too (Y\uc..H 
F~>-e.e. Tome. ON 
IZ f-\AN't>'S? 
I "t>ES··· 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
"Listen, Noreen--you wanna be the photographer next time, be my guest." 
OF INTEREST 


SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, October 7, 1993 
Women's soccer shuts down Wisconsin-Milwaukee 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant SportS Editor 
To keep a team from scoring is outstanding. To keep a team from shooting is unbelievable. 
Not only did the Notre Dame women's soccer team crush Wisconsin-Milwaukee 6-0 last night. but it also outshot the Panthers 24-0. 
The sixth ranked Irish improved their record to 11-1 after rolling past 6-5-2 Wisconsin in an offensive blitz which featured five different scorers. 
Junior midfielder Tiffany Thompson opened the scoring for Notre Dame 9:31 into the contest with an unassisted blast from thirty yards out to the left of the goal box. 
Fellow midfielder Jodi Hartwig expanded the lead to 2-0 two minutes and 47 sec­onds later when she booted a loose Thompson corner kick through a crowd and into the net from five yards out. 
Sophomore attacker Michelle McCarthy, who started at mid­field because Ragen Coyne was out with a pulled hamstring. added two more goals before the end of the half to all but assure Notre Dame the victory. The goals. which were McCarthy's eighth and ninth of the season. were both assisted by freshman midfielder Cindy Daws. Freshman forward Stacia Masters and sophomore forward Rosella Guerrero also earned assists on the scores. 
With a reshuffled line-up on the field to open the second half. the Irish wasted no time getting back on the board. With just under eight minutes expired in the half. Masters received a 20 yard pass from Daws and booted in her fourth goal of the year from five yards out. 
Senior forward Tasha Strawbridge wrapped up the scoring when she kicked in a Kate Fisher corner kick for her first goal of the season. 
"They're a very talented team," said Wisconsin head coach Susan Moynihan. "I respect them a lot. Hopefully we learned something from it." 
"We played with a little bit more intensity than we did this weekend," said McCarthy. 
"We played alright." said Thompson. "We moved the ball well. and that's what we've been working on." 
"It gives us some momentum going into the weekend," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli, referring to the important conference contest with Xavier. "It sends us into the game with the right frame of mind." 
"Even though this wasn't a huge game," said McCarthy, "it builds our confidence a little bit." 
"It's good for us,"' added Thompson. 
The Irish have now won 16 of their last 1 7 games. dating back to last October. 
Daws' two assists brought her scoring line to seven goals and fourteen assists. Her 28 points place her at ninth in the Central Region and 14th in the nation. Guerrero's assist brought her scoring line to eleven goals and four assists. Her 26 points place her at tenth in the region and 16th in the nation. 
Coyne is listed as question­able for this weekend. 
JOCK STRIP 
Boredom led to Jordan's decision 
I
t's only been a day since Michael J o r d a n announced his retire­ment and already I'm sick of hearing "How
-
could he do it?" or 
"He'll miss it and 
come back." 

Contrary to what 
Jen Marten 
most Chicagoansthink. Jordan has 
sports writer 
-
given up basketball and, although they may be factors. it wasn't his father's death or the bad 
press that ultimately pushed him to 
retire. It was boredom. Don't understand? Sure. no one can 
understand what Jordan is thinking because no one can relate to his plight. 
Right now. he is truly the best at what he does. There is no one better in the NBA. There is no one who can guard him 
.. 
or score on him with the same skill and intensity that he guards them or scores on them. Jordan has no foil. no arch­enemy. 
Magic Johnson and Larry Bird had an ongoing battle. The pair stayed in the game as long as they could still trying to settle the score. Along came Jordan and 
.. 
their career-long battle became mean­ingless. Clearly. Jordan was better than the aging stars were in their prime. 
The reason people are having so much trouble believing Jordan's decision is because there is no comparable example in any sport. There has never been an athlete who is has excelled so completely at what he or she did and who set a stan­dard for excellence so high that it doesn't appear that anyone will reach it anytime soon. 
In the evolutionary process of all sports. the athletes get better with advances in training and equipment. but professional basketball has reached a point where it has to evolve to Jordan's standards. 
He just ran out of goals. He proved he could dunk better. He proved he could score more points in a game than any­one. He proved he could win it all by bringing Chicago its first NBA Championship. And its second. And its third. 
He has nothing left to shoot for. Further multi-pealing is meaningless until the Bulls near the Celtics · mark of eight-straight and for Jordan that's five more years of dealing with people trying 
see MARTEN I page 11 
Inside SPORTS 
Women's lnterhall 

Men's Golf Michael Chaney helps Farley's upset of Irish to another second
-
Pasquerilla West high­place finish at the MCC lights last night's action. 
tournament. 
see page 13 
see page 11 
Jordan makes retirement official 
By LINDSEY TANNER 
Associated Press Writer 
DEERFIELD. Ill. 
With no tears. just that trademark twinkle in his eyes. Michael Jordan retired Wednesday from the game he redefined but hinted that basketball may not have seen the last of him yet. 
"I've reached the pinnacle of my career," Jordan said in an announce­ment that shocked fans and teammates alike. "I just feel that I don't have any­thing else for myself to prove." 
At a news conference packed with hundreds of reporters at the Bulls' training center, Jordan said he'd lost the motivation to play and had thought about retiring after leading the Bulls to their third straight NBA championship in June. 
The 30-year-old superstar said the slaying of his father this summer was not the main reason behind his decision. 
"I was pretty much decided at that particular time. but I think what it made me realize was how short life is," he said. 
"I guess the biggest positive thing I can take out of my father not being here today is that he saw my last basketball game. That meant a lot," Jordan said. 

AP File Photo Michael Jordan made his retirement offi­cial at a press conference yesterday. 
Jordan had been dogged in the last year by reports of excessive gambling. and a highly publicized book about the Bulls portrayed him as a sometimes self­ish player who looked down on most of his teammates. 
He said media scrutiny had not driven him from the game. but acknowledged that he won't miss the spotlight. 
see JORDAN I page 16 
Men's Interhall Morrisey and St. Ed's look to continue success this weekend while oth­ers look for first win. 

see page 14 

