
Thursday, October 14, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.34 THE INDEPENDENT NLWSPJ\I)FR SFRVINl~ NOTRE DAM~­
Statement supports gays, lesbians and bisexuals 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Today's published statement regarding gays, lesbians and bisexuals recognizes the need for openness and support for members of these campus mi­norities, according to five Notre Dame professors. 
Professors Calvin Bower, music. Teresa Ghilarducci, eco­nomics, Philip Quinn, phi­losophy, Thomas Smith, archi­tecture, Teresa Godwin Phelps, law, and Susan Youens, music, signed the initial letter request­ing faculty and staff signatures for an advertisement printed in The Observer. 
Faculty members agreed that the statement is meant to fos­ter tolerance for gays and les­bians. 
"This makes no statement about morality," said Bowers. "In the academic community, in particular a community that espouses the principles of the Gospels, we should show maxi­mum tolerance for (gays and lesbians)." 
Bower donated his campus mail box for the project after he was approached by Erik Floan, a graduate student and president of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC). Floan asked Bowers and the other five pro­fessors if they would be willing to sign a letter which would be circulated to about 3200 other faculty and staff members. Floan made the copies and sent the letters to the various de­partments and offices. 
"This is not a GLND thing," said Floan. "I helped Calvin. I did a lot of the work, and he just volunteered his box." 
Bowers received 276 signa­tures for the statement and three negative comments. Some faculty and staff members also enclosed donations to pay for the advertising space. 
"People have called me on campus. There is up-front, gen­uine concern for this part of the campus as a whole," said Bowers. 
The statement was modeled after a similar one published on October 11, 1991, but was modified to include the Saint Mary's community. 
"I don't know exactly who wrote it," said Floan. "I re­membered the ad, and we thought it was a good idea. There are people out there looking out for the interests of gay and lesbian students. It is visible support for those who need it." 
Professor Quinn agreed with Floan's message of support. Before coming to Notre Dame's faculty, Quinn taught at Brown University, where the attitude towards gays and lesbians was "much different," he said. 
"Notre Dame is appreciably more homophobic," said Quinn. "There is less willingness to try to address these issues openly. It is a moral problem for this community." 
Father Richard Warner, di­rector of Campus Ministry, ac­knowledged that there have been incidents of harassment in the Notre Dame community, but endorsed a "well-thought out and well-conceived" educa­tive process to change attitudes towards gays and lesbians. 
"Legislation doesn't change bias, and petitions don't change harassment," said Warner. "The attitudes that we have are so deeply ingrained and reflec­tive of our culture that it takes a lot of effort on our part to look at each other as brothers and sisters. People have to be brought to understand." 
Professor Phelps of the school of law also emphasized the need for understanding and a "family" atmosphere. 
"It's a very Christian message that we not beat up on each other and we try to understand each other," said Phelps. "The fact is, whether we like it or not, there are gay and lesbian members of our community, and if we are a family -a word which is used a lot around here -we should act that way." 
Father Peter Rocca, vice president of student affairs, at­tributes a portion of the intoler­ance to the composition of the student body. 
"In many ways, our campus is very homogeneous," said Rocca. "It is difficult for people who are comfortable with a homogeneous milieu to appre­ciate people who are different than themselves." 
"I think we have a long way to go," he continued. Youens could not be reached for comment. 

Circling the law 
AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/Rick Bernardo 
Students were able to explore law school options yesterday at the "Law School Caravan" held in the Center for Continuing Education. Schools from all over the nation were represented at the event. 


Cartwright speaks of nuclear threat 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Associate News Editor 
The grassroots movement that played a key role in chang­ing nuclear policy during the 1980s needs to fight for public consciousness in order to over­come the threat of nuclear pro­liferation in emerging nuclear powers, according to David Cortwright, author of the new book, "Peace Works: The Citizen's Role in Ending the Cold War." 
"The Cold War is over, but nuclear danger is not-you could actually argue that it is more dangerous now than it was in '80s," he said. "While you don't have the fear that we're likely to nuke each other · ...you do have problem of loose nukes, a lack of control and proliferation." 
Emerging nuclear countries like the Ukraine, Iraq, Iran and the breakaway republics of the former Soviet Union constitute a greater threat than the Cold War battle between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, because many of their political situa­tions are less stable than the former Soviet Union, according to Cortwright, a visiting faculty fellow at the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies. 
Worse than global prolifera­

tion, according to Cartwright, is 
the apathy of Americans who 
do not recognize the post-Cold 
War threat. 

"Everybody thinks the nu­
clear danger is gone," he said. 
''I'm sure if you took a poll and 
asked Americans what issues 
concerned them, the nuclear 
threat would be way down-it 
probably wouldn't even register 
the on radar screen, but it's 
still out there." 

If Americans could mobilize 
in the same numbers that they 
did during the '80s, they might 
be able to make an impact on 
the decisions of the Clinton 
administration, as they did dur­
ing the Reagan years, accord­
ing to Cartwright, former direc­
tor of the National Committee 
for a Sane Nuclear Policy, an 
activist organization. 

The active concern of millions 
of Americans forced the Reagan 
administration to rethink its 
conservative strategies and 
work toward peace through 
negotiations, rather than 
greater arms buildups, he 
added. 

"For the Reagan administra­tion to maintain political sup­port in Congress and in the ·public, it was necessary to go to the bargaining table with the Russians, even though they hated them and didn't believe 

By THERESA ALEMAN Assistant News Editor 
America's participation in the Vietnam War and its role in the 

large are expected to be the focus of former presi:­dential can­didate George McGovern's speech tonight at 7 p.m. in 
101 DeBartolo McGovern Hall. 
McGovern was the 1972 Democratic Presidential nomi­nee and has been a leader in the Democratic party for more than 25 years. . 

Best known for his crusades. against American involvenm 
Ilis championing o;f. th~ American farmer and agrictil-. turalconcerns propelled him into a position of national stane~. In 1982, he fi:n.mded "Americans for Common Sensfl/~ a political action group otre~ing a,nalternative politiclll 

r~cogniti()n as well as thf. vi{!.w o1l behalf ofminorjties; 
in.the-VietnamWar;M~.Gove .._.·. P{}J\tictd .forum; ·and in,196Q;. · tp~ poo·r;, and marginaU~ed became the Pelllocratk nomi,. > Pre~identJ(ennedy named Mm. ArtlErt ... s~ ..•.·.·. ... ..• ·• ···.•••.•. nee largely due to a grassroots i! the first Director of the .to()d · · . o~tanffor students 
•movement ofhis supporters. ••·•··· for Peace Program. . :•:;J. <! ya.rietyofvi~wpoin,ts. 
He also served as aU$. sena-·..• ~cpovern's . ._._bo.ok,·-··· : !nilit!lryroles when tor for 18 years an~· a two~term ~Agricultural Thought in\th~. •.. ....·•. . . etpiilldng Ol.Jr glob~ in­member··of the u.s. House of 20th Century." spurred wide'>'/ vot,yementz•n ·said .Stephen Representatives. ,spread, discussion of agri'? :M"Y:rpl}y; an Ahunni Hall ~enior 
A member of the Senate ··culture as part of political wl}o helped organize the Foreign Relations Committee agenda. · McGovern lecture. . . · throughout the 1970s, His books "A Time of War/A ..···•. Tll.elect~re is sponspf~;~d by
McGovern was appointed l>Y Tim.e of Peace" and <!StJJdent Government, tll.e Presidents Carter and Ford as a tGtas~:r:opts" outlin~his politi7 ellq lnstifute;. arid. the.. United Nations delegate. ¢al Ufe as well as his anti...war t Social Coneerns. 
in arms control," he said. 

In addition to moving the sides closer together, the freeze movement helped to hinder aggressive initiatives like the Strategic Defense Initiative, and the MX missile. 
"It certainly forced the Reagan administration to aban­don some of their more of their extreme p<>licies, and it created a climate here and in Europe, and even to a degree in the Soviet Union, where leaders on all sides had to bid to the public on arms control," he said. 
Once characterized as a radi­cal fringe, the nuclear freeze movement was taken seriously after the 1982 elections where the issue of the freeze was put on the ballot in nine states and 30 major cities. When 11 of 18 million voters voted in favor of a nuclear freeze, politicians took notice, he said. 
"It was the closest thing our country has ever had to a ref­erendum on the arms race," he said. 
Another event which helped Americans become more con­scious of nuclear policy was a 1982 rally in New York's Central Park. The rally, which drew over a million protesters in favor of a nuclear freeze, at­tracted much needed attention to the movement, according to Cortwright. 
"It really showed there was an enormous constituency at the grassroots level for the halt to the arms race." 
The upcoming 50th anniver­sary of the bombing of Hiroshima could act as another event where publicity and pub­lic support could be re-ener­gized, he said. 
"It could be an occasion where we could get people to rededicate themselves to get­ting rid of these weapons over the subsequent 50 years," he said. 
Getting politicians to stand up for a reduced defense budget and a reduction of nuclear arms would be important for changing policies for the '90s. 
see NUCLEAR I page 4 

---------------------------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, October 14, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Parietals enforcentent needs help 


News  Accent  
Corrine Doran  Mart Carbone  
Emily Hage  Allison Ebel  
Sports  Tanya Krywaruczenko  
Jason Kelly  Graphics  
Production  Chris Mullins  
Susan Marx  Lab Tech  
Cheryl Moser  Macy Hueckel  


The Oh>e:rvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacalion period~. The Observer is a membe-r of lhc As!.oci:ncd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Israelis, Palestinians plan details of peace 
CAIRO 

A month after signing the Israeli­Palestinian peace accord, delegations from the two sides met Wednesday to start the tough task of implementing it. 
Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestine Liberation Organization talked for two hours, then issued a statement pledging to move quickly to implement the his­toric pact. 
Another meeting opened Wednesday in the Egyptian resort of Taba to work on military and security aspects of turn­ing over the occupied Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho to Palestinian control. 
Negotiators said the tone in Taba will determine progress elsewhere. Talks on broader issues are taking place peri­odically in Cairo, Tunis and Washington. 
A joint statement read after the one­hour meeting stressed the "cordial and constructive atmosphere." 
This was apparent in the smiles and jokes that passed between the two chief delegates, Israeli Maj. Gen. Amnon Shahak of Israel and Palestinian Nabil Shaath. 
Shahak later told a news conference, "Both sides are aware there is quite a bit of work to do here. It is clear to both parties .that without a sense of security for both Israelis and Palestinians the agreement won't succeed." 
Ahmed Khalidi, a senior Palestinian delegate, called the Taba talks the "foundation block of implementing the whole process." 
The Donald's the daddy: Marla has little girl 
NEW YORK 

After the affair, and the divorce, and the break-up, and the reunion, and the next break-up, and the sequel, there was a happy ending Wednesday for The Donald and Marla: a baby daughter. The little bundle of joy -the fourth child for Trump, the first for Maples ­arrived at 12:50 p.m. in an undisclosed 


Florida hospital, Trump spokeswoman Trump Norma Foerderer said. Trump was with Maples for the delivery, and their daughter weighed in at 7 1/2 pounds, she said. The couple named her Tiffany Trump. The name, selected by The Daddy, is a reference to his art of the deal. 
Poll: Americans disapprove of foreign policy 
NEW YORK 

An increasing number of Americans disapprove of how President Clinton has handled foreign affairs, according to an ABC News poll. The poll, completed Tuesday night, found that 56 percent of those questioned disapproved of the president's overall handling of foreign affairs. In mid-September, 55 percent approved. Seven in 10 said the president has no clear policy on either Somalia or Haiti, the poll said. Asked whether the United States' vital interests were at stake in Somalia, 73 percent said no; in Haiti, 65 percent said no. In a June 28 poll, 62 percent approved of the way Clinton was handling the Somalia situation. Now, following the killing of American soldiers, 62 percent disapprove, ABC said. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon. Thursday, Oct. 14.
Thursday, Oct. 14 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
Accu-Weather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
FRONTS: 
............... 
COLD Pressure 
H L 



HIGH LOW 
V1o1 Assoc~aled Press 
City 
Athens Atlanta Barcelona Boston Chicago 
JORDAN 

AP/Kari Gude. Kart Tate 
The two sides agreed to form two working groups for transferring authority -one for security matters, one for civilian issues. Release of the approximately 11,500 Palestinians held prisoner by Israel was listed as a priori­ty. 
Peres and Abbas met privately in Cairo, apart from the delegations. Peres said later they agreed on the impor­tance of coordinating their efforts. 
"Both of us have agreed that the purpose of our delega­tions is not to argue and create polemics but really to build bridges and create the right climate," Peres said. 
Forty-eight rats loaded into shuttle Columbia 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
NASA gingerly loaded 48 rats into Columbia on Wednesday for a record two-week medical research mis­sion that scientists hope will improve the quality of human life in space and on Earth. The rodents were low­ered into the 12-story orbiter by workers suspended on cables. A technician slid 24 cages -each holding two rats -into racks in the cargo bay laboratory module and the bus-sized laboratory was sealed for Thursday's launch attempt. Meteorologists expected a 90 percent chance of good weather for the scheduled 10:53 a.m. EDT liftoff. But they were keeping close watch on cloudy weather at emergency landing sites in Morocco and Spain. Launch director Bob Sieck was optimistic despite all the extra shuttle countdowns needed this year. 
Roseanne chooses plastic surgery 
NEW YORK 
She made her name as a dumpy everywoman, but Roseanne Arnold has no apologies for the plastic surgery that's made her look better and feel better. "We're not in a perfect feminist world, and we never will be. And even if we were, I'd still have plastic surgery," the 41­year-old star of TV's "Roseanne" says in November's Ladies' Home Journal. Arnold says she has undergone breast reduction surgery, a nose job and a facelift. She's also dieting and exercising. "It makes you feel really good about yourself. I mean, you have flaws that bother you, and to erase them is great. It was like reversing years of abuse that I've done to my body. I feel like I'm starting over," she said. 
December 13,1 
• Signing of --_.,' Gaza and Jericho. 
13,1994 
• lsraeU forces complete Wltll<lral\lal; tnllerim begins. 
July 13, 1994 
• 
General elections council. 

• 
EstablishrOO;;iof Palestinian police Ioree. 



~issolutioo of lsraeU Civil Administration & wit(ldrawal of militar1· ~~vernment; transfer ol authority from lsJ!el to autho<ized Palestinian bodies; new authorities to be responsible lor education. cutture. social affairs7"rnrect taxation and tourism. 
1994 "' 

• 
Redeployment;llsraeli forces in the West Bank and Gaza Strip (outside Palestinian population centers). 

• 
Israel retainj responsibility lor external security. internal security, general Older and security lor Israeli senlements;lsraeli forces and civilians continue to haw free access to roads in Jericho and Gaza Strip. 


Aprll13, 1994 to Aprll13, 1997 

• Negotiations for final sentemenl begin as soon as possible after the inlerim phase comes into effect. and al a date no later than the third year after the interim phase. The following issues will be discussed; final status of Jerusalem; relugees; Israeli setUements; security arrangements; borders; cooperation and communication with neighboring countries; other issues of mutual concern. 
WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
SHOWERS RAIN T·STORM5 FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Cleveland 49 40 Paris 64 55 Dallas 76 62 Philadelphia 62 46 
H L 
88 61 Jerusalem 86 66 Phoenix 91 6775 46 London 61 55 Rome 81 63

72 54 

Los Angeles 74 62 Tokyo 73 6353 47 Minneapolis 52 27 Toronto 55 2753 28 New York 56 47 
page 3 

Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Wald: Clash in Israel ruined unity 
By ETHAN HAYWARD gious tolerance and not exclusively on Hebrew laws. 
News Writer 
The Israeli government makes provi­sions to all religions and does. not sup­Clashing Orthodox and Secular Jews port Judaism only, said Wald. 
have undermined the cohesion of Israeli society, accorfing to Ken Wald, 
The majority of Israelis do not
a professor of political science at the 
declare any particular faith when
University of Florida, who spoke yes­polled, he added, but the increasingterday. 
population of Orthodox Jews demand­
"Judaism unites society on some 
ing certain civil concessions has causedissues and divides it on others," Wald political tensions with the more secular
said in his lecture "The Religious Sources of Israeli Political Divisions." 
residents. The efforts of Orthodox Jews to
Minor incidents, like traffic in 
make Israel more of a "Jewish state"
Orthodox neighborhoods on the 
have embittered the more indifferentSabbath, have helped to heighten con­citizens and consequently has broughtflicts between the secular and the more about widespread political division in
religious Israeli citizens. Israel is mainly a "state of Jews," not the Israeli government, he said. 
Wald is the author of the book
a "Jewish state," according to Wald, "Religion and Politics in the United
who said that the nation was estab­lished based on the principles of reli-States." 
Spanish American enlightenment discussed 
By MAUREEN BRODERICK Tarrago said the Spanish were con­cerned with the practicality of concepts 
News Writer and Utilitarian theories rather than non­The relationship between science and applicable philosophical theories of the religion, as well as the literature of the European Enlightenment. time, were greatly influential during the Jose Anadon, professor of romance 
Spanish American enlightenment, language and literature, spoke on Latin according to Rafael Tarrago and Jose American literature during the colonial Anadon, in their joint lecture yesterday. period of the Enlightenment. 
Tarrago focussed on the influence of "The colonial writings expanding over 
three centuries are now the cursor ofthe Catholicism on the enlightenment. 
Many people are not aware Spain had Spanish American literature," he stated. a period of enlightenment during the He added that the necessary informa­
eighteenth century, and the Catholic tion needed to fully understand the writ­Church played a crucial role in the ings of the colonial period are missing spread of this movement, said Tarrago, because of years of neglect. bibliographer for Latin American It is increasingly important to explore 
new authors and new works from thisStudies. 
He explained that science and religion period in order to aid in the understand­mixed through Catholics' use of medical ing of colonial literature. discoveries made during the The lecture was sponsored by the 
department of romance languages.
Enlightenment. 

Vietnam Somalia GEORGE McGOVERN 1972 Democratic Nominee for President Come hear the leader of the movement against the Vietnam War speak on the U. S. role in the world today. TONIGHT 101 Debartolo 7:00p.m.  

page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 14, 1993 


Security Council threatens Haitian army chief offers to resign 
By ED McCULLOUGH 

to reimpose sanctions 
Associated Press 
By ANDREW KATELL 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
The Security Council voted Wednesday to reimpose sanc­tions on Haiti in live days un­less military leaders stop violat­ing a U.N.-brokered accord on restoring democracy. 
The U.S.-proposed resolution calls for the imposition of an oil and arms embargo and the freezing of the overseas assets of the country's military lead­ers if the government does not conform with the accord by 
11:59 p.m. EDT Monday. 
The resolution also threatens to punish Haiti further, possibly with a naval blockade, although it does not authorize the use of force. 
In a speech to the council, 
U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright warned Haiti's military leaders they were treading down a dangerous path in seeking to "extinguish the democratic flame in Haiti. 
"They're riding a tiger that may ultimately devour them." she said. 
The United States called for reimposing sanctions on Haiti after armed toughs backed by the military forces blocked a 
U.S. ship carrying 200 non­combatant U.N. forces from landing in Haiti on Monday. 
The military government also has been blamed for wide­spread political violence against supporters of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was ousted in a 1991 army coup. 
The landing of the USS Harlan County was to launch in earnest the mission to help re­store democracy in impover­ished Haiti. Under the accord, Aristide -the first freely elect­ed president of Haiti -is to return on Oct. 30. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said in a report to the Security Council that Cedras' regime had a "clear and explicit intent to prevent the democratic process ...from taking its course." He accused the authorities of "serious and consistent non­compliance" with the July ac­cord. 
In Haiti, Haitian army chief Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras declared Wednesday that he was pre­pared to resign, as called for under the U.N. plan. But he said he would step down only if parliament passed a general amnesty law. 
He also insisted that any for­eign soldiers sent to help im-
Nuclear 
continued from page 1 
"We need some politician somewhere to get up and say 'We've got to get rid of these weapons-we supposedly had them for the Hussian threat, but now that it is all over, why the hell do we still have them?'" 
Although the political side of the issue is important, Cartwright said that the politi­cians will change their minds after they see voters taking ac­tion in favor of fewer nuclear weapons. Getting people to act is key, he said. 
"Usually people only respond when there's an immediate threat-you don't have that now," he said. "It takes a greater act of consciousness to think proactively and under­stand the dangers that are just below the surface." 
plement the agreement leave their automatic weapons at home. Cedras had said that the Harlan County was turned away because the troops car­ried M-16s. 
Before the Security Council voted, he complained that he was not being given a chance to defend his position. 
"One does not have the right to condemn without giving a hearing," he said. 
The resolution approved Wednesday does not authorize the use of force to permit Aristide's return, but leaves open the possibility of "addi­tional measures." 
Diplomats, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said the United States had considered asking the Council for a block­ade but apparently backed off because Washington would not have been able to get other council members to agree on such short notice. Washington now has a blockade in mind as a possible next step. 

Albright said the United States would also order travel sanctions, presumably denying · 
U.S. visas to Haiti's military leaders. 
The previous round of eco­nomic sanctions prodded Haiti's military rulers to sign the July agreement, and recent 
U.N. and American casualties in Somalia have made a mili­tary strike an unsavory option. 
Unlike previous sanctions, the new measures do not freeze the assets of Aristide's government. 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 

The chief of Haiti's military promised Wednesday to step down only after lawmakers ap­prove a general amnesty, and said U.N. troops thwarted from landing in Haiti could enter if they left their automatic weapons behind. 
Lt. Gen. Raoul Cedras also called President Clinton "very ill-informed" about efforts to restore democracy in the coun­try. 
Cedras spoke at a news con­ference where he signaled a willingness to return power to ousted President Jean­Bertrand Aristide, but set con­ditions for the transition that were unlikely to be accepted by the United Nations. Cedras led the army in a September 1991 coup against Aristide. 
His statement came as the United Nations, which bro­kered a previous accord, pre­pared to hit Haiti with econom­ic sanctions next week unless military leaders live up to a 
U.N. plan to restore democ­racy. 
"I am ready to resign for the good of the nation," Cedras said at army headquarters. 
Asked whether that would be by Friday, the date which U.N. officials say he had previously given as a deadline to quit, he answered softly: "I hope." 
U.N. officials say Cedras ver­bally gave a Friday deadline for quitting. But Cedras aides say he made no such commitment. 

Happy 21st Amy Wanken 
w A R N I N G 
Just when you thought it couldn't get any better ... The Alumni Senior Club has teamed up with Tracks Records to provide you with the finest in musical entertainment. To celebrate this new partnership, we present: 
NEW RELEASE NIGHT 
Thursday, October 14th Featuring a seemingly endless variety of newly released albums courtesy of Tracks Records. Coupons will also be available at the door-redeemable for selected mechandise at Tracks. So come let 
r ambitions run wild ... at the CLUB. 
The U.N. plan, which Cedras agreed to, states only that he will step down before Aristide's return Oct. 30. 
As part of the agreement, Aristide decreed an amnesty for officers accused of human­rights violations, but Parliament has not yet made the decree into la~. 
"Yesterday I heard President Clinton say that Aristide had fulfilled his part. President Clinton is very ill-informed," Cedras said. 
He also said the U.N. plan guaranteed that any foreign troops arriving here as part of a U.N. force must carry only handguns, not the M-16 assault rifles that U.S. medics, military engineers and civil affairs spe­cialists reportedly were to pack. 
A senior U.N. official, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, said none of the 53 foreign military personnel or about 50 Canadian police trainers now in Haiti have M-16s. 
The U.N. official said Cedras had created the M-16 issue to seek a way out of the interna­tional agreement. 
Clinton said the Haitian mili­tary broke the terms of the agreement by resisting the de­ployment of 194 Americans and 25 Canadian troops who had come to Haiti this week aboard the USS Harlan County. 


Clinton and the Organization of American States said they support re-imposition of sanc­tions upon Haiti, a tactic that previously has led to conces­sions by the military. 
The Harlan County retreated from Haitian waters Tuesday after Haitian authorities refused to let it dock and pro­testers vowed to fight foreign troops. Hundreds of right-wing Haitians cheered and fired guns in celebration, while Aristide supporters viewed the departure with disappointment and fear. 
On Wednesday, anticipating the restoration of U.N sanc­tions, Haitians crowded gas stations. It is unclear how much fuel Haiti has. 
Sanctions were first imposed weeks after the coup. In June, an oil embargo was imposed to increase pressure on military leaders. But it was lifted in late August after Cedras agreed to the U.N. plan. 
During the oil embargo, Haitian authorities limited de­liveries to stations and individ­ual purchases to $5. Several provincial towns went without deliveries and black market prices rose to $20 a gallon. 

.-£ea'tn the ~ec.'tet~ o( §famou't 
dllake-up ln a two hou't c.fa~~-­
not ('tom a ~afe~pe't~on feanln;:J 
otJe't the c.ounte7.. Cfa~~e~ include !JOU7. pe't~onaf makeotJE't and a photo ~e~~lon. !Book & dllake­up af~o inc.fuded. Caff 291-2207 
!Beaut , Efe anc.e & St 


Dancingat Lu~-· 
Winner of the 1992 

by Bnan Friel 
Tony Award for Best Play 

Notre Daine·COn1munkadon and Theatre 1993-94 Season 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats: $7 
Wednesday, October 13 8: I 0 p.m. Student and senior citizen discounts Thursday, October 14 8: I 0 p.m. are available Wednesday, Thursday Friday, October IS 8: I 0 p.m. and Sunday. Tickets are available at Saturday, October 16 8: I 0 p.m. the LaFortune Ticket Office. Master Sunday, October 17 2:30 p.m. Card and Visa orders call: 631-8128. 
Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Preserving faculty's Catholic nature important Engineers apply studies 
to design of race car
By DAVID CLAIRMONT News Writer 
The intention of the Colloquy 2000 is to preserve the Catholic "continuity" of Notre Dame's new faculty members, said University President Edward Malloy at the Faculty Senate meeting last night. 
In defining the Catholic na­ture of the University, Malloy 
FACULTY SENATE 
said that he would be "disap­pointed" if individuals elected by their departments to hire faculty were not committed to Catholic predominance among their colleagues. 
Malloy said that the depart­ments and their new faculty ought to preserve the "vibrant Catholic intellectual life" at Notre Dame. He acknowl­edged, however, that faculty must interpret for itself how potential members might be 
categorized as committed Catholics. 
Finding "human ways of get­ting at more than what people say on paper" is a necessary element in forming a faculty dedicated to the University's defining quality, said Malloy. 
A Senate member suggested that the fundamental objective of the mission statement was clouded by the wording of the Colloquy's first recommenda­tion. He added that the num­ber of practicing Catholics on the faculty may decline, but the University's Catholic nature could still be preserved. 
Malloy said that he held "no monolithic view of the end product" for new faculty hiring. His concern, he said, is that recent departmental action has, on occasion, shown that evalua­tion of a faculty member's Catholic character has been reduced to putting a "tick mark" in the "Catholic box." 
Several members of the 
Senate urged Malloy to ac­knowledge that the means of implementing the University mission statement was not clear to all faculty members. One senator made the distinc­tion between favoring the Catholic tradition and living it. 
Malloy responded that once an individual is hired, he or she should realize the "academic freedom" associated with life at the University. 
In other business, Malloy noted that the Senate's role as a "consultant or advisor" to the administration is significant. 
He also commented on ques­tions regarding the inequality of faculty salarie<>, off-campus housing and a current study concerning "addictive behavior on University campuses." 
The Senate voted unan­imously to recommend that the Board of Trustees reject the 
"Proposed  Ordinances for  
Catholic  Colleges  and  
Universities in the US."  

By GUY LORANGER News Writer 
Plans are shifting into high gear for the College of Engineering's drive towards winning next summer's Cleveland Electric Grand Prix, a project that will offer stu­dents the unique challenge of putting their knowledge from the classroom into the design of an actual formula race car. 
"So much of our teaching here is theoretical," explained William Berry, a supervisor for the project on campus, "and I think this is an exciting oppor­tunity to offer our kids some­thing that is both practical and useful in forming their career plans. It's a real hands-on ex­perience." 
The race, set to take place next July in conjunction with Cleveland's annual main Grand Prix event, promises to be the first of its kind to feature solely electric-powered vehicles with drive trains designed and assembled by college students. The students will represent schools from throughout the Midwest. 
The sponsors of the event, Centerior Energy, Inc., an Ohio-based electric company, and the Solar & Electric Racing Association, SERA, will furnish each school's participants with the generic body of the vehicle, which resembles an Indy race car model and is valued at ap­proximately $25,000. 
According to Berry, a profes­sional driver, certified by SERA, has already been chosen for the race and plans are cur­rently being made on where to house the vehicle, which will arrive on campus shortly after fall break. 
"Now all we need are stu­dents willing to dedicate a little extra time during the next eight months so that the drive train can be built on time. Of course, we will also have to de­sign the car's exterior and so­licit funding from local spon­sors," said Berry. "This means that students from outside the engineering college can get in­volved." 
Students may choose to work in three of nine specified areas, and all positions should be filled within the next few weeks, although new positions may be created as the project moves along. 
Four areas in particular will concern the drive train. Among the tasks involved will be designing the battery packs and their connections, the drive motor, the motor controller, and the rear axle and its trans­mission system. Other duties will include the decoration of the car's exterior, such as its color and decal arrangement, as well as participation on the pit crew. 
The project will cost an esti­mated $65,000, which will cover labor, maintenance, in­surance, entry fees, a racing li­cense and a membership with­in SERA. Berry expects many of these expenses will be defrayed by sponsorship from both the private and business sectors. 
"Hopefully, the sponsors from industry will give students and faculty some valuable access to their expertise, providing equipment, having a voice in the implementation of the drive train, and helping us to under­stand some practical ap­proaches to the electric drive concept," said Berry. 
The goal of the Electric Grand Prix, besides providing students with an educational experience, will be to advance automobile technology, which has stimulated in the past through racing events. 
"After all, it's only a matter of time before the electric vehicle becomes prevalent in the au­tomobile industry. There's a real market out there in the future," said Berry. 
If students were unable to attend the informational meet­ing held last Tuesday, there will be another one shortly after fall break. If interested, contact Berry, Michael Stanisic, or Col. John Miles, assistant Dean of the College of Engineering. 

Security/Police Department Campus Security Building 
Office of the Director Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 631-8338 (219) 631-5555 
October 14, 1993 
Greetings: 

As many of you are well aware, our university is more than midway through the National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week. The week has focused on the role that alcohol plays in our li•Jes, and hopefully you have been challenged by the week's theme to "Make the ChoicE to Make a Change." 
Unfortunately, too many of our community's security problems revolve around the misuse of alcoh~l. It is a major factor in campus vandalism, violence, and other crimes committed. 
Tonight, there will be a program entitled, "Get to Know the Law Bsfore the Law Gets to Know You," and will feature two representatives from the Indiana State Excise Office. You might better know them as members of the SUDS (Stop Underage Drinking and Sales) Task Force. They will share valuable information with you, and allow you to ask questions about the task force. Please take advantage of this educational opportunity. And lets challenge our community to "Make the Choice to Make a Change." 
Sincerely, 


~~J~ 
Rex J. Rakow Director of Security 
----~----------~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 14, 1993 
Greenspan rebuffs lawmakers' talk of reforming Federal Reserve 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan bluntly re­jected a congressional move to make the nation's central bank more politically accountable, calling such efforts "assaults" that could lead to economic in­stability and recession. 
But supporters intent on re­forming the nation's most pow­erful economic institution let it be known they intend to push forward. · 
Greenspan squared off Wednesday with House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez, who is spear­heading the most concerted ef­fort in three decades to over­haul the Fed, which critics charge is undemocratic, secre­tive and dominated by white, male bankers. 
Gonzalez's bill would require the 12 Fed regional bank presi­dents to be selected by the president rather than bank­dominated local boards. It would also force more timely public release of Federal Reserve policy actions, provide greater congressional oversight of the Fed's budget and expand opportunities for women, minorities and non-bankers to serve as regional bank direc­tors. 
Greenspan, however, rejected all the proposed changes, say­ing they were either not needed or, in the worst case, would subject the central bank to greater political pressures. 
"Provisions that, in effect, in­crease political leverage on Federal Reserve decision mak­ing amount to assaults on the defenses that Congress has con­sciously put in place to ensure the appropriate degree of cen­tral bank independence," Greenspan said. "Weaken those defenses and, I firmly believe, the economy is at risk." 
Greenspan said the current Fed structure, established by 1913 and 1935 laws, had stood the test of time in giving the country a central bank that could pursue anti-inflation poli­cies that might cause unem­ployment to rise temporarily without fear of being influenced by political considerations. 
Efforts to spur economic growth without regard to infla­tion, Greenspan said, could "lead to instability, recession and economic stagnation." 

Gonzalez and Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-lnd., who is push­ing his own overhaul bill, argued that they were putting forward modest changes to make the Fed more democratic. 
"This is not radical reform and there is no cause for the Federal Reserve to proceed as if barbarians are at the gate," Gonzalez said. "The changes we propose are not damaging to the independence of the Federal Reserve nor do they 
~N ESJ>~, ~~ Spanish Mass ~
i ~
domingo, 17 de Odubre de 1993 

9:00 a.m. 
ST. STEPHEN'S CHURCH 
1102 Thomas 
South Bend, IN 

FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE Vans will depart the Library Circle at 8:45 a.m. 
Todos Estan Invitados ALL ARE WELCOME 

r·'~1
II 
refreshments will be served 
attempt to micromanage mone­tary policy." 
He and Hamilton said it was unconscionable that the Fed regional bank presidents are allowed to vote on interest rate policies even though they are chosen by directors selected primarily by commercial banks. 

Make the Choice 
to Make a Change 

NATIONAL COLLEGIATE 
ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK 
Sponsored by: The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
Gonzalez would require the Fed regional bank presidents to be nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate. Hamilton would strip them of their voting power on the Federal Open Market Committee, the panel that sets interest rates. 

-~---------------~-----·~--~-------­
Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page 7 
Now Is THE TIME To LEASE YouR 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENT 
FoR 1994 
9 Month -10 Month -12 Month Leases 
FURNISHED APARTMENTS, ALL UTILITIES COVERED, CENTRAL AIR 
Wide open spaces, well appointed apartments. Indoor Pool & Jacuzzi. Sports activity area. Weight machine, 24 Hour Laundry. 
20 Years Experience Speaks For Itself 
We Take Security and Safety Seriously 
Visit Our Office and Meet Our Staff 
Call Dorene NOW 

.-----------------·--------------~--~----------------------~------------------------------------------------------·------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 14, 1993 
Bell, TCI mega-deal makes 'perfect information-age marriage' 
By FARRELL KRAMER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Bell Atlantic Corp. is buying Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's largest cable TV opera­tor, and an affiliate in a mega­deal consummating the "per­fect information-age marriage." 
The merger dramatizes the rapidly changing communica­tions landscape being reshaped to deliver voice, video and com­puter data through a single connection into the home 
"With the combination of ca­ble properties and wire and wireless telephone businesses, we will immediately create one of the world's largest informa­tion distribution companies," Bell Atlantic Chairman Raymond Smith said Wednesday in announcing the deal. 
Bell Atlantic, a regional phone company, will acquire TCI and Liberty Media Corp., also a cable provider, in two phases for a price that could exceed $30 billion. 
After the merger, Bell Atlantic would have more than 22 million telephone and cable 
Source: TCI, Bell Atlantic AP/Wm. J. Castello, Steve Sakson 
customers in 59 of the top 100 TCI is in the middle of a $3.3 
U.S. markets. billion stock-swap acquisition of 
"Financially, the synergies Liberty Media, which figures in are terrific," said John Malone, a battle over Paramount TCI's chief executive officer. Communications Inc. "The combination of the two In the Paramount battle, ca­enterprises will dramatically ble shopping channel QVC and increase the cash available Viacom Inc., another cable op­right now." erator, have made competing 
Bell Atlantic­
JJ

Tele-Communications merger 
Corporate profiles: 
@ Bell Atlantic 
• One of seven 'Baby Bell' regional telephone companies created in the 1984 breakup of AT&T. Based in Philadelphia, selVes 6 states and Washington, D.C. 
.1992 revenue $12.6 billion; profits $1.4 billion. 
• Spending more than $1.5 billion in New Jersey to create first statewide fiber-optics network by 2010. 
.Won August court ruling in Virginia 
throwing out a 1984 rule that barred 
telephone companies from offering 
cable TV programs in same regions 
where they provide phone seJVice. If 
ruling holds up it will jeopardize the 
monopoly cable TV companies enjoy 
in most places. 

Tele-Communications Inc. 
• 
Biggest cable TV provider in U.S. Based in Denver, 10 million cable subscribers in 49 states, or about 20 percent of the market. 

• 
1992 revenue of $3.6 billion and operating profits of $956 million . 

• 
Spending $2 billion to replace metal-wire TV cables in 300 cities with fiber optics to vastly increase amount of data carried. 


.Testing a movie-on-demand 
seJVice in Denver with fiber-optic 
cable allowing customers to select 
from 20 current titles with start-times 
every 15 minutes. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
bids for the entertainment com­their TVs to "travel" through a pany. TCI is backing QVC, and graphically produced on-screen some have questioned what mall, using a computer mouse­role the merger with Bell like device. Shoppers could Atlantic would have on that "enter" a record store on the deal. screen, listen to music selec­
Viacom said it raised trou­tions and make purchases ­bling questions about Malone's without ever leaving their arm­power . chairs. 
On Wednesday, the compa­nies showed off Bell Atlantic's Such technology is seen by prototype Stargazer interactive, many as the future of commu­multimedia television system. nications. Bell Atlantic, TCI and 
Through Stargazer. sub­Liberty Media hope to be a big scribers would be able to use part of it. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement of intent to Jennifer Habrych at 314 LaFortune or 309 Haggar. For more information, call Jennifer at 631-4540. 
Applications are due by Friday, October 15, 1993. 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Many of us like to go to Mass 
Notre Dame is surely one of the only big time college campuses around where immediately after the Saturday afternoon football game whole busloads of people are scampering around looking for a place to go to Mass. The Basilica fills up quickly, while half a dozen hall chapels become tightly packed with believers. Last weekend, with all those parents around, it was even more obviously so -lots of Notre Dame and St. Mary's people like to go to Mass. 
The heart of traditional spirituality here has always been a love and reverence for the Eucharist. It may be the essence of our Catholic character. In previous times, rectors sat at small tables just outside the dorm chapel doors, checking­off lists of early-to-rise students. Conveniently, Mass would begin just a few minutes later, and most everybody piled right on in to the chapel. 
During the late sixty's, while other campuses were burning down their ROTC buildings, Notre Dame and St. Mary's students would organize peace marches and then finish with some big outdoor Mass, where various people would tear up their draft cards as part of the offertory ritual. 
These days, the beginning of the crew team season and the return of the Jerusalem students from overseas last semester are just two of many events celebrated here in the context of "the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass." The examples abound. 
This strong campus dedication to the Mass is a deep blessing, but it is sometimes also painful. Many committed Catholic women these days find it difficult to pray the Eucharist while it must always and exclusively be led by a man. It seems like an attack upon their dignity. Invited minorities and students of other faiths can sometimes find our big University rituals leave them feeling alienated, untended, and outside of the fold. Junior Parents Weekend, with its sermons about the beauty of family life, can leave children of broken marriages and deceased parents experiencing additional burden. We have not yet learned how to welcome an increasingly diverse student population into our traditional forms of piety, or how to provide for their needs in another respectful way. 
As for the women's issue, I always remember the late Sr. Cathy Reichart, 
C.S.C., a sparkling-eyed feminist and fine theologian. She said of the struggle 
to be a woman and a pious participant in the Eucharist, "I'm not gonna let 
them stop me from eating peanut butter just because I don't like the shape of 
the jar." She chose to nourish her faith, no matter what the pain. That may 
not be easy, but it sounds like a worthy challenge. 
In fact, all of us are challenged to preserve the richness of our tradition and to make it relevant to the struggles of our day. Weeknight Masses in the dorms, and weekend liturgies in off campus apartments can be moments when quiet and peace and togetherness open up our hearts to the graces of a life in Christ. Given a little opportunity, we may discover God's call of love and healing and experience God's invitation to relationship and service. Campus Ministry is always anxious to be invited into homes, club meetings, and reunions -all sorts of gatherings -to allow God's holy word and sacrament to continue to lead our lives to courage and purpose. 
In recent days I have heard University chaplains and trustees wonder aloud about whether devotion to the Eucharist at Notre Dame is somehow diminishing. I doubt it. The chapels seem full. 
But what we need to make sure is that the whole of our lives is lived out in such a way as to make our prayer honest. We must truly desire that God take over our lives. We must really be open to the needs of those around us. And at this most Catholic of places, we must watch for ways to make those who feel distance from our piety more welcome into its sweetness. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
ExPOSITION OF THE BLESSED SACRAMENT 
Every Friday, when the University is in session, from 12:00 p.m. until5:00 p.m., there is exposition of the Blessed Sacrament in the Lady Chapel of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The rosary is prayed at 4:30p.m. followed by Benediction at 5:00p.m. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. October 16  5:00p.m.  
Sun. October 3  10:00 a.m.  
11:45 a.m.  

Rev. Jose Martelli, C.S.C. 
Rev. Jose Martelli, C.S.C. Rev. Alfred D'Alonzo, C.S.C., Rev. Mr. Robert Dowd, C.S.C., homilist 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING 2ND READING GosPEL 
Isaiah 45: 4 ..6 1 Thessalonians 1: 1..5 Matthew 22: 15.. 21 

--~--~----~~--~-------~---~------~----~---~-----~-----­
.......--~----~-~-----­
Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 
Artist describes origin, meaning ofwork 
By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI 
News Writer 
Through her life experiences and study of art, artist Kathleen Holder has made her work a way of life, she explained at yesterday's lecture at Moreau Center for the Arts. 
Using slides, Holder discussed the evolution of her works. 
One of her most profound and inspiring experiences, she said, was in the fields of Texas where she often watched light­ning. 
Holder said that she was in­spired by artists in the "family of light," such as Rembrandt, Rothko and Turell. 
She added that she focuses on "power spots," or dark focus spots in her paintings, and the light surrounding them. 
She lets go of the lines and architecture and "squeezes the light out of the dark." 
Holder bases her works on her life emotions and events, and said an artist's works are autobiographical. 
"My work is the most sincere prayer I can offer," she said. 
"For me, working negotiated a way out of some tough times," she said. 
Though Holder is constantly busy with her artwork, she said that it is important to "strike a balance of work in life." 
As a teacher, Holder consid­ers herself a "good flight in­structor," helping the students to understand and explore dif­ferent influences and aspects of art. · 
Holder began her career as a painter at the University of Wisconsin, but after a year at graduate school, she became interested in the "intimacy" of pastels. 
Happy 1 9Ul Pip pi! 
Love, 

Court, Becca, Reesa, M­n-M, Mud, Seana, Gill, Fog, Jenzie & Scoe 
She is presently an associate professor at the University of Arkansas in Little Rock and specialist in abstract pastel drawings. 
Holder has received many awards and her artwork has been displayed in solo exhibi­tions all around the country, in­cluding Washington D.C., Minnesota, Santa Fe, Memphis, Little Rock and Chicago. 
Her latest works will be on display until November 2 at Purdue University's Stewart Center Gallery. 
Look for the BYU football pullout in this Friday's Observer! 
To learn more about the Planned Giving Progr.m1. call us today. It's the first step in making a memory 
that lasts beyond a lifetime. 
WE'RE FIGHTII\IG FOR 'r()IJR L1 FE 
&'JaAmerican Heart y Association 
-
page 9 

Clinton, Senate work to avert clash in Somalia 
By DONNA CASSATA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton and Senate leaders struggled Wednesday to avert a showdown over con­gressional demands for an early withdrawal of U.S. troops from Somalia. 
"I think the obvious import of what's happened in the last few days is that we're moving in the right direction, and I hope we can continue to do that," Clinton said at the White House. 
A leading Senate critic of the president's policy, Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., eased his demand for withdrawal by the end of the year. And the White House sought to appease angry lawmakers by furnishing ­two days before it was due -a report defining the military mission as humanitarian and stating emphatically that it is not open-ended. 
In an interview, Clinton reit­erated his position that the United States would withdraw its forces by the end of March, but he indicated he was open to other dates. 
"We could leave earlier if, number one, I'm sure we can do it safely, and, number two, it's clear to me that we've done everything that's possible to give the Somalis what you might call survival rights," Clinton said. 
The president, in an inter­
view with Univision, a Spanish-speaking network, also con­ceded the mission may not achieve its goals. 
"We still may not succeed. A lot of people don't think Somalia can be a nation. can't live in peace, a lot of people don't, but I think before we pull out, I think we should do everything we can so that we know we have tried, we have given those folks a chance to survive," he said. 
Byrd. the Appropriations Committee chairman, had threatened the administration with a measure cutting off all funds for U.S. forces by Dec. 
31. But on Wednesday he of­fered a Feb. 1 deadline -with a provision that Congress could authorize additional time. 
The president was sticking to his March 31 deadline, and he worked with Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D­Maine, and Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., to counter any challenge, said presiden­tial spokeswoman, Dee Dee Myers. 
A meeting of Senate Republicans failed to produce a consensus behind a Mitchell­Dole measure that is consistent with Clinton's policy and main­tains his deadline. The Senate suspended consideration of the defense spending bill as a handful of GOP senators, including Dole, continued to work on the resolution. 
LARGEST SLECTION OF MAMEBRAND FAMILY FOOTWEAR AT THE 
LOWEST PRICES GUARANTEED! 
NOW THRU NOVEMBER 30, SHOW US ANY TICKET STUB FOR AMY NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC EVENT & RECEIVE 

% 

OFF 
ANY WHITE STICKER PURCHASE! 
• MOT VALID WITH AMY OTHER COUPON OR DISCOUNT OFFER • CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS MAY APPLY • EXPIRES 1 1/30/93 
REGISTER NOW! QUALIFIERS DRAWN HOURLY WINNER DRAWN 9PM, NOV 26 · A TREADMILL FROM ROCKPORT · A JVC BIG SCREEN TV · SHOES FOR A YEAR • A SUPER NINTENDO FROM KEDS 
YOU COULD 
WINFREE! 

SEE STORE FOR DETAILS ENTER FREE MUST IE PRESENT TO WINI 
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT Thursday, October 14, 1993 


~-----~~-~--~-~------~~-~--~ --~--~--­
·­

VIEWPOINT 
Thurday, October 14, 1993 page II 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Ac.,nt Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint M;uy's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 

Advertising Manager..................... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Controller ......................................~Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurateiy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production Business Office 631-5313 Advertising Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 
631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lefties must stand up for their rights 
Dear Editor: 
I feel like an outcast, and a few persons in the Notre Dame community (and in the world too) do the same. 
My group has remained quiet and silent for a very long time. But now, enough is enough. 
We've endured too much ignorance and indifference. I shall speak in the name of my brethren. 
I read The Observer (almost) every day and I keep finding articles about people who are different from the common peo­ple, and I keep reading reports on the amount of money and energy spent to smooth these differences or just to make these common people believe they're treating those different people fairly. 
But nothing about our daily ordeals! 
I don't want to be picky and nasty (oh no I don't) but I'll give the names of these privileged groups: women (It is true that they are a whole world apart from the common people), les­bians and gays (these ones are a bit like us: nobody wants to hear from them, and everyone wants to ignore their exis­tence), all the minority/ethnic groups (assuming that the com­mon people are defined as the majority). 
Hey, I don't hold (oh, no I don't) anything against these groups, it's very fine that they got recognition. 
But what about us? 
DOONESBURY 
These people called "differ­ent" have their clubs, their meetings, their financial aid­did anyone ever notice that? 
The more these persons want to be integrated, the more they claim their existence as a group, as a clear, separated en­tity, they shout their differences aloud {"vive la difference "). they organize, speak out and then, the more they receive money (and sometimes the other way round, too). 
We are the ones who really need some money to be spent on facilities alLaround the cam­pus (apart from the women, of course. Whoever wanted to share a bedroom with a woman?). 
I could speak of the buttons in elevators, the knobs on doors, the mice on computers, the taps of water fountains, the sticks in cars and the handles on toilet paper dispensers. 
But these are ridic.ulous, puny issues compared to the most demeaning, de-socializing fea­ture against our group that ex­ists here, at the University of Notre Dame: I've named the 
writing desk. 
It is as gross as using the term {oh, may all the feminist readers of The Observer par­don me for this supreme blas­phemy) freshman instead of freshperson. 
Or thinking you are speaking with an Asian-Asian interna­tional student, and trying to be nice and not too offensive about his different skin color and cul­ture while actually you are speaking to a Chinese associa­tion member {who is not like an Asian-American-Chinese club member, but very much like a Chinese-American-Asian organization member. 
So these two examples are just for you to think about our poor and miserable situation. 
There has been some laugh­able failed attempt to pretend to integrate us in the communi­ty {I am speaking of the DeBartolo's writing desks), but is it really integration when every day of our lives, we are forced either to use a common desk, either to sit in the far away, right {sometimes left) corner of the classroom? 
Should anyone say that it is very convenient for sleeping in class, it shall be considered like a first-degree insult toward our 
group, implying that we  are  
lazy  people  and  that  the  
majority is not.  

Of course, these desks can be· very easily moved. 
But some mischievous devil always put these desks back to their former places after we leave. 
I call that a segregational act. 
So brothers {and I don't for­get sisters), let's act! 
Let's create our group! 
Everyone else, send us your (financial) support! 
And soon we will have our Lefties' Resource Center! 
PHAN NGOC HUY Off-campus 

Rudy fantasy shines light on real problems facing students 
Dear Editor: 
I am getting sick of all the negative feelings on this cam­pus about the movie "Rudy." The final draw came for me at the Pitt game, when our stu­dent body booed Sean Astin and the real Rudy when they came out on the field. 
I can see now why ND stu­dents feel such animosity towards this film: 
Rudy" is the story of a man whose single, passionate goal in life was to attend the University Of Notre Dame. He overcame enormous hardship, set-backs, and obstacles, but never lost sight of his dream. Put simply, he worked his butt otT in order to become a Domer. 
Rudy is a stark contrast to a large chunk of the ND student body, who were admitted to ND because mommy and daddy (or both) were alumni, or because mommy and daddy earn a six or seven digit salary and run a Fortune 500 company (the average ND family earns $80,000 a year, putting them in the top 5 percent of the American income bracket. 
One in-four Americans are below the poverty line, but when asked in a recent -sur­vey what the income of the average American family is, the average response -q-from ND students was $65,000). 
My point is that ND students hate "Rudy" because it serves as a reminder to them that some people got to ND through years of hard work, and not because of who their parents are. 
Get your noses out of the air, and maybe ND students can learn something about ND from the film. 
ANDREW J. DEKEVER 
St. Edward's Hall 


OKAY, !3tFORE YOU 6EN75 AFTER A HARJ) NO,UEUTEN­HtAD OfF TO PAKTY, AR£3 DAYATMACH 2, ANT, YOU 7HERI3 ANY (Jf}{f3R. QU£STICN3? AREN'TIEN­ARI3NfJTSO 
Y~, OfRC&R IN THE TfTt&D 7D 50/Y113 ENT!Tt&O. 
FRONT... \ /lCllONON \ 
THB 
UTM&Bl3 a&AR.MACH2 AND 5()¢ G8TS YaJ {;()Fff38. 
I 

''The wages of sin are 
death, but by the time taxes are taken out, it's just sort ofa tired feeling." 
-Paula Poundstone, comedi­enne 
-----------~-----~-~~--~---------------------------------------------~-~----­
page 12 Thursday, October 14, 1993 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol Awareness Week is purely a Puritan propaganda ploy 
Dear Editor: 
"Chugging can kill." These words stared at me last night from across the dining hall table. Above the words is a pic­ture of an idiot chugging a whiskey bottle. 
Anyone with any common sense knows that such a display is not a proper or safe way to drink, but our friends in the office of Alcohol and Drug Awareness seem to think that when we drink, we drink in a manner similar to that depicted in the picture. 
The truth of the matter is that our precious United States is besieged with Puritan Fundamentalism. particularly in the Bible belt, in which Indiana is one of its proud strongholds. 
This Puritan Fundamentalism is epitomized in "Alcohol Awareness Week," during which we are bombarded with Puritan propaganda against drinking. 
These people are not just against drinking irresponsibly, they are against drinking at all. 
This stems from the fact that they automatically associate drinking with alcoholism and failure. 
Just look at all of the pro­paganda ads that our "friends" have provided. 
None of them promote drink­ing responsibly, they simply denounce drinking in general. 
I vehemently resent the implications made by their patronizing Puritan propagan­da, and I urge others to express their resentment as well. 
America is the only major industrialized country to place such a stigma on alcohol. We are constantly subjected to vicious diatribes stating what "problems" alcohol brings about. 
One such propaganda piece states that alcohol damages every major organ in the body while ignoring the plethora of recent medical studies that sug­gest that a drink a day can actually be good for your heart. 
How convenient it is that the Alcohol Awareness people left this fact our of their ads. It might actually suggest that moderate drinking is not all that bad. 
Another example of pro­paganda is on the back of the "chugging can kill" table tent. It states that three people a day die of alcohol poisoning, most of them being under 21. 
Why do you think that this oc­curs, particularly to people under the legal drinking age? 
The fault lies with the Puritans, who never prepare or condition people to use alcohol responsibly. The population under 21 years of age is forced to do its drinking in secret and without supervision to make sure that it is done safely. 
I'll use driving as an example of what I'm trying to say. We start driving usually with one of our parents, who teach us the rules of the road and allow us to practice the skills needed until we are ready to take the driving test. 
We do not say something like, "Driving kills over 100,000 peo­ple a year, so don't drive." If we did this, we would increase the number of automobile acci­dents tremendously as a result of someone suddenly finding herself behind the wheel of a car with no idea how to pro­ceed. 
The situation is exactly the same with how we treat alcohol and young people. If, as in other cultures, alcohol is treat­ed as an acceptable drug for purpose of enjoyment rather than a taboo, our country would experience a lot less alcohol "problems." 
I could cite countless ex­amples that I've personally seen in foreign countries, but I don't want to detract from my main point, which is: "THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH DRINKING ALCOHOL, SO WHO DO YOU (alcohol awareness people and other Puritan ter­rorists) THINK YOU ARE TELLING ME OTHERWISE?" 
Just look at some of the famous people of history who were both very successful and heavy drinkers: Edgar Allen Poe, Charles Dickens, Alexander the Great, and Winston Churchill to just name a few. When I say that there is nothing wrong with drinking, I mean that there is nothing wrong with anybody drinking. 
This brings me to the second greatest injustice perpetrated by the powers that be, which is the legal drinking age. We have the highest drinking age of any industrialized country in the world, and yet nobody in our government sees fit to change it. 
By following a course of inac­tion on this issue. our govern­ment demonstrates how besieged it is with members of the Puritan right. As a conse­quence of this, we in the uni­versity system are subject to certain state-sponsored op­pression, which affects us in the form of the S.U.D.S. task force. 
In a way this is also an open Jetter to any member of S.U.D.S., because your task force would be better called the Revenue Enhancement Patrol. 
The members of this task force are nothing but whores of the state, prostituting them­selves by raiding parties and issuing tickets, and then run­ning back to their pimp to hand over the money. 
This task force is nothing other than a state-sponsored terrorist legitimized by existing law. I hope that one day a member of this "task force" or someone close to a member falls victim to a real crime so that these "officers" get their priorities straight as to what they should really be doing. 
Almost as bad as the S.U.D.S. task force are the people such as the editor of Scholastic who believe that underage drinkers get what they deserve from 
S.U.D.S. because they are actu­ally breaking the law. These people are the most detestable because they socialize with us and then sleep with the enemy. It is a shame that East Germany no longer exists, because these people would have made good Stasi informants. 
For the victims of S.U.D.S. raids, the Puritan tradition of punishment by embarrassment is still practiced. Rather than place these people in the stocks for a day, their names are printed in the Observer the next day. 
The next time you read the names of people printed in this yellow journalistic fashion, just remember that they are not criminals, but victims of state oppression. 
I propose that next week be declared alcohol enjoyment week, so hoist your mugs, friends, and drink to another successful school year. After all, "It's only Beer!" 
WILLIAM McDONALD 
Dillon Hall 

KIRSTEN M. DUNNE DESIDERATA 
Celebrate 'National Coming Out Day' with an open mind 
Once more, National Coming Out Day has rolled around, and once more I feel that it will not receive the attention it de­serves. 
Because I have many friends who are gay, lesbian or bisex­ual, I would like tQ offer some thoughts on why homosexuality is such a problematic issue for some people to deal with and how each of us, by re-examin­ing whatever pre-conceived notions we may have about this sector of society, can work to­ward a more aware and under­standing environment. 
I feel that this is particularly appropriate on our campus, considering that we refer to ourselves as the "Notre Dame family". We cannot truly be a family when many people har­bor irrational and potentially harmful ideas about other members of the "family". Stated most fundamentally, I think the problem is that in some ways homosexuality is treated too seriously and in other ways not nearly seriously enough. 
Much of the negative com­mentary about homosexuality ­I would venture to say almost all of it -is directed at gay men. A good percentage of the popu­lation still associates AIDS pri­marily or exclusively with gay men. The two page display of hatred for which one of our dis­tinguished alumni paid in excess of $800 last year was di­rected mainly at gay men. It condemned the "sin" of sodomy (which many people forget includes oral as well as anal sex). 
And as I followed the debate as to whether gays should be allowed in the military, a good number of the commentators on the "con" side were straight men whose best argument was that "I don't want some fag looking at me naked in the shower." 
Why this overreactive disdain of gay men, perpetuated pre­dominantly by straight men? It is hard for me to say, since I have never truly understood it. However, my guess is that it stems mainly from three sources. 
For one, there seems to be a pervasive misconception that gay men are attracted to every man they see. To see more clearly the asininity of this no­tion, I would ask all straight people if they are attracted to everyone of the opposite sex. My belief and hope is that most would answer no. 
Though there will be excep­tions among both the gay and straight populations, most of us are just not that hormonally imbalanced, and there is no rational basis for presupposing that gay people are any differ­ent from straight ones in this respect. 
Moreover, even if a gay man does lind himself attracted to a straight man, he will probably feel too intimidated speak to that person, much less openly "hit on" him. For one thing, if would obviously be futile just as it is largely futile in the hetero­sexual community to pursue someone who is "attached" or just plain not interested. More importantly, a man in this sit­uation will be afraid to show his feelings. If the threats, epithets and physical violence that straight men have directed at gays for so long have been in­tended to scare them, they have largely "served their purpose". Therefore, if this fear of advances by gay men is indeed a reason for their mistreat­ment, it is quite irrational, for the possibility of such an ad­vance is extremely low. 
A second apparent reason for the overreaction to male homo­sexuality seems to be the belief that God forbids it. People will quote from the Bible until they turn blue in the face and then rest assured that their mis­treatment of gay men, even if it includes physical violence, is justified. Although I can't com­municate with God any more directly than anyone else here on Earth, I just cannot agree that He operates in this man­ner. 
I was raised as a Catholic and remain so; yet, ever since I can remember, I never under­stood the Catholic doctrine to be contaminated with such intolerance and hypocrisy. My parents always emphasized un­conditional love as the heart of God's teaching, and I remain convinced that it is. The fact that homophobics can provide me with direct quotes from the Bible does not detract at all from my convictions. 
The Bible was written approximateiy two thousand years ago. While I do not con­tend that it has lost its validity. I do firmly believe that we must interpret it in light of the twen­tieth century, just as we do with other ancient writings. At pre­sent day, more and more peo­ple are "coming out" -people in all walks of life, who are no different from the rest of soci­ety save for the people they date. 
Homosexuality has been ana­lyzed and studied quite exten­sively, with much support for the view that being homosexual is not a choice. In Jesus' time, homosexuality was not the is­sue it is today -a gay person was probably viewed as a true oddity. 
Whether or not we agree that homosexuality is "ok", we cannot truly consider it an "oddity" in light of the vast number of people who have openly declared themselves gay or bisexual. I really think we have to take this into con­sideration when we read the Bible, and especially when we directly quote it. I think a more careful analysis might well lead to a different conclusion than some people have reached. Specifically, they might con­elude that God -a loving, gen­erous Being -could not have meant to exclude such a con­siderable sector of the popula­tion from His Kingdom solely because of the manner in which they express love. 
Thirdly -and this is purely speculative -I wonder how much of the gaybashing that goes on is an attempt to cover up or get rid of feelings that the bashers themselves might have some homosexual tendencies. It would indeed in this homopho­bic world be a bit frightening to realize that one might be gay. especially if one is a man. 
However, there are more con­structive ways of dealing with such feelings, such as finding a friend in whom to confide and thinking the situation through. Again, this is purely speculative and is for each individual to ponder, but I would suggest that if this is a reason for the mistreatment of gay men, it is doing nothing to help yourself, it is certainly not helping oth­ers. and in the end it won't make your feelings go away. 
In conclusion, I would like to clarify that I am not attempting to generalize about men, about heterosexuals, or about anyone. I am merely trying to analyze the situation as I see it, and I see it as standing in great need of improvement. By re-evaluat­ing the way we perceive homo­sexuality, we can make it easier on friends or family who hap­pen to be gay and want some­one to "come out" to; to confide in. 
We can also set an example for other heterosexuals, thus furthering a community of mu­tual respect and acceptance. 
These, I feel, are among the primary goals. of National Coming Out Day; they are also the essence of what it means to be a "family" as we at Notre Dame call ourselves. Please, on the next Coming Out Day (and throughout the year), let's keep our minds and our hearts open. 
ACCENT 

Thursday, October 14, 1993 page 13 
Scorsese creates timeless art 
with 'The Age of Innocence' 
MOVIE REVIEW JON THORN 
Scorsese has directed, the set-tionship. 
If you're wondering if you ting is New York. "The Age of She gives, as do all the sup­should go see "The Age of Innocence" is a film that has porting cast members, a con­Innocence," ask yourself one characters saying a lot while summate performance as question: Do you like poetry? seemingly saying very little, Newland Archer's bride to be Because if you don't, you may another technique common to and eventual bride. find the film, well...boring. It Scorsese films. The film is about an unre­isn't easy to sit through some-The movie is timeless. As the solved love interest between thing you're not interested in plot of the film unfolds and the Archer and Olenska, unre­for over two hours. characters evolve we see that solved because of Archer's 
If you've seen "Doctor the 1870s might just as easily marriage to Weiland. Zhivago," and be the 1990s. It takes the film more than liked it, or The elements of two hours and twenty minutes heard your par-life don't really to tell the tale, and the tale ents talk about change, just the takes Newland Archer a life­it like it's the 'If you have ever names and faces time in the film. greatest thing wondered what love performing the With proportions like these, 
that ever hit the . . acts of life. the film becomes as sweeping
silver screen, IS, or have felt It, or have The film. and powerful a love story as then you might lost it or have dreamt of based on the "Doctor Zhivago." be very interest-. h ' h" f"l "k novel by Edith Rarely in the cinematic world 
ed in "The Age It, t en t IS I m WI.11 stn e Wharton, cen-has the touch of a hand, or a of Innocence." a chord.' ters on the tense glance meant so much. If you have attraction Pfeiffer gives an emotional ever wondered between Ellen performance through the tone what love is, or Olenska, played of her voice which is similar to have felt it, or by Michelle her use of body language as have lost it, or have dreamt of Pfeiffer, and Newland Archer, Catwoman in "Batman it, then this film will strike a played by Daniel Day-Lewis. Returns." Daniel Day-Lewis chord. The fact that the film concen-deserves, at a minimum, an "The Age of Innocence" is trates on two central charac­Academy Award nomination. not "Demolition Man" or "The ters, delivered to the audiences If for no other reason, the Fugitive." Don't expect a chase by the powerful performances film is worth seeing for one line scene, a murder, or a sex of Pfeiffer and Day-Lewis, delivered by Michelle Pfeiffer to scene. makes all other characters Daniel Day-Lewis. It is also unlike "Cape Fear" seem bland. Olenska speaks about a place or "Raging Bull" or anything Yet the supporting perfor­where the word mistress does else made by Martin Scorsese, mances are meant to be mini­not exist, where people who director of "The Age of malist. Winona Ryder's perfor­love each other may do so with­lnnocence." mance as May Weiland is out the eyes of society watching Scorsese might seem like an meant to be rather soft. them, where she and Archer odd choice to direct a period She is part of the vignette might love each other. art piece, but after having seen that Scorsese has created and Pfeiffer says, with a sadness the film he becomes the obvious is only meant to appear at the in her voice, "Where is that 
Courtesy of Columbia Pictures 

choice. edges of the Newland country? Have you ever been 
Michelle Pfeiffer stars with Daniel Day-Lewis in Martin Scorsese's 
Like so many of the films that Archer/Madame Olenska rela-there?" 
artistic period film, ''The Age of Innocence." 
SV\ite to show bold1 abstl"act Wol"ks of 
coV\tempol"al"y paiV\tel" 3ames Wille Fat.-ts+ 
By KAREN SHOPOFF Notre Dame Campus. "The paintings of James Wille bold colors and abstract de­from the Heron School of Art at Accem Writer On Sunday, Oct. 17, the Snite Faust really stand out and grab signs of his works should ap­the Champaign-Urbana campus Museum of Art will officially you," according to Heidi peal to the University popula­of the University of Illinois. 
The works of one of open its exclusive exhibition, Williams, secretary to Friends tion. "Faust is a neat feature be­America's premier contempo­entitled "James Wille Faust: of the Snite. cause he is somewhat local," rary painters are coming to the Recent Paintings." Williams believes that the His works suggest thermal said Williams. 
photography and electron microscopy which make them The Friends of the Snite hope unusual, according to Williams. for a large audience at the 
This exhibit of James Wille opening. Faust is an-----------­
"exclusive "We usually visit," said average about Williams. 300 people for an opening," Adding to the 'The paintings of said Williams, excite~ent su~-James Wille Faust but because 
roundmg thts Faust has a re-
exhibition, is really stand out and grab gional appeal, that his works you... Faust is a neat tea-she expects him have never been . to draw a larger displayed at the ture because he IS some-crowd. 
Snite before, what local.' according to James Wille Williams. Faust will also 
Heidi Williams be the guest One of Faust's speaker on most well-Monday, Oct. 18, 
•
known works is at the 
the acrylic on------------"Currently at the canvas "Absolut Indiana," a Snite" luncheon. He will discuss commissioned piece for Absolut his paintings and answer ques-Vodka. tions about them. 
"Absolut Indiana" is a high­The exhibit "James Wille profile work which illustrates Faust: Recent Paintings" will be his imaginative, optical style, on display at the Snite Museum 
Courtesy of Snite Museum of Art 

said Williams. of Art through Jan. 2, 1994.
"Passing in The Twilight" and other works of contemporary, abstract artist James Wille Faust will be on dis­
Born in Indiana, Faust earned Admission is free and open to
play at the Snite beginning Oct. 17. 
a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree the public. 




;ACCENT
page 14 Thursday, October 14, 1993 
Ringo distinction 
•

Saint Mary's College ring IS a beautiful, 
•

unique symbol for alumnae and students 
By ANNA TABOR Accem Wrirer 
In the beginning of this year, posters hung all over Saint Mary's advertising class rings. Not the Saint Mary's College ring-just a generic class ring. 
Now, more familiar-perhaps more effective-ads have replaced the generic ads; the new ads simply show the Saint Mary's ring, and announce its sale. 
The distinct design of the Saint Mary's ring heralds compliments and instant recognition around the world. 
There is clear evidence of this popu­larity in the familiar story about two Saint Mary's alumnae traveling in Europe: 
Sitting down next to each other in a French cafe, each instantly recognized the other's ring, and they became life­long friends. 
Every Saint Mary's student is able to get her own piece of this unique part of the school's iconography. Students choose from eight different metal com­positions and three different sizes, with specialty rings available for certain dis­
.• 
ciplines . 
For instance, a unique version of the 
ring with a medical symbol inside a 
cross is offered to nursing graduates. 
Taking into account the many combi­nations available for individualizing the particular style of ring, there are over 3,240 possibilities. 
James Bell, the Balfour ring represen­tative for Saint Mary's, said that the first college ring came from West Point in the late 1800s. 
The men were not keen on wearing pins or pendants, yet they wanted "an identifying symbol to take with them after graduation," according to Bell. 
The first identifying symbol issued at Saint Mary's was the plain silver Latin cross in 1860, according to Saint Mary's archivist Sr. Rosaline Dunleavy. Upon graduation, each student received one of these crosses as a gift. 
Before Saint Mary's had an official school ring, the students used to wear Notre Dame rings on chains around 
'I've had girls from Notre Dame approach me to get a ring like Saint Mary's. I tell 
Constructed in 1941 by a jeweller in Bell also observed that the Saint cism, seduction and magic. them the only way you can get a Italy, the plain ring bears no signature Mary's ring is like no other in the coun-In trying to persuade the student to ring like this is to transfer to or date. Balfour took over ring construc­try. He has often heard the story of the buy their college ring, the Balfour ring 
tion for Saint Mary's when the Italian two alumnae in Europe, and has even brochure makes the educational experi­
Saint Mary's.' 
company burned down. more evidence of the ring's broad ence sound almost magical: The class of 1966 was the first class to appeal. "No other possession will ever symbol-
receive a ring from Balfour. Their ring "I've had girls ize a more important
James Bell 
had fleur-de-lis on the sides instead of from Notre Dame period in your life. A the swirls of previous years. The stu­approach me to get ' 0 other possession will period during whic~
N 

dents who designed it adopted the a ring like Saint . you absorbed a fasci­flower from the Sisters of th"e Holy Mary's," Bell said. "I ever symbolize a more nating spectrum oftheir necks or smaller versions on their 
Cross, said Bell. tell them the only important period in your life. A knowledge, experi­
fingers in the 1940s and 50s, according "There used to be 'Spes Unica' way you can get a . . . ences, feelings andto Sr. Miriam Cooney SMC '32. 
straight across the seal (on top of the ring like this is to penod durmg Which you ab-impressions.
"It served as a promise to be 
ring) but no 'Saint Mary's' or 'Notre transfer to Saint sorbed a fascinating spectrum Of "These moments
engaged," said Cooney. At that time Dame,"' he continued. Mary's." k I d . f I may never again bethere was no unique Saint Mary's ring Later, Balfour added "Saint Mary's of In the last four now e ge, expenences, ee -repeated but can be available to students. 
Notre Dame" around the top "to identify years, Balfour has ings and impressions.' recaptured usingSr. Madeleva Wolff, a former president where (Saint Mary's) is, and to go with acquired competi-your college ring asof Saint Mary's, influenced the change the contour of the ring," said Bell. tion from Josten's, . , a catalyst for yourhecause "students were very proud of In 1972, when the merger between one of the four main Bal/four brochure for the Samt Marys memory.
'heir school," said Cooney. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame fell ring manufacturing ring "Your college ring"They were a very intellectual group, through, Saint Mary's College president companies in the binds you to yourheady-the pride in the late 1950s and William Hickey asked that the "or· be United States. school contempo­early 60s we'll never have again." 
dropped and replaced with a comma. Josten's was invited to Saint Mary's raries, and also inducts you into theWhen the Saint Mary's ring did finally Due to these changes, all dies had to when "one ring came out (from Balfour) greater fraternity of past and future appear, it became an instantly popular be recut, which in itself is an expensive that had a cubic zirconia instead of a alumni."
symbol of the college. 
venture. At other colleges, the dies cost diamond," Bell said. "With a college ring, the memories ofChanges the ring underwent before its $250 per side and $60 for the top. "The ·girls raised a big stink about it, your achievements will always be closeevolvement into the present design are Saint Mary's top is more ornamented word got out, and now Josten's sells at hand." 
numerous. 
than most other schools, thus making here, too." And with a Saint Mary's College ring, Bell's display case boasts the first the ring more expensive. Bell estimated Balfour tries to appeal to several dif-these memories are uniquely symbol­Saint Mary's ring-the square one in the that the entire die for the petite minia­ferent emotions to lure the potential ized.
middle of the jewelry case. 
ture model costs around $800. buyer, according to Bell: power, eroti­

-----~~ 
Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The ObseiVer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. ­
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

THE SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY  FSU TIX NEEDED!!!!!!!!  PLEASE!! NEED 2 USC ST. TIKS  SELLING STUD TIXBOOK  Adoption: Doctor and professor will  
NOTICES  SCHOOL CORPORATION IS IN NEED OF GOOD SUBSTITUTE  CALL CRAIG @273-3942 PLEASE!!  FOR BEST FRIENDS FROM HOME.  BEST OFFER CALL@ 273-3140  make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the  
TEACHERS AT ALL LEVELS.  EMILY x2337  AFTER6 PM  city; summer by the beach: Your  
Typing  APPLICANTS MUST HAVE COM­ NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­ 
287-4082  PLETED 60 CREDIT HOURS.  place in winter, and by ocean  
INDIVIDUALS INTERESTED  Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  WANTED:$$$  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
TYPING Plus computer services  SHOULD APPLY BETWEEN 8:30  '86 Alum who endured futility with  GA AND STUD TIX  best education, endless love. Call  
Term papers, newsletters, etc. Free  AM & 4:30PM MON.-FRI. AT THE:  I NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Faust is hoping to reach the heights  FOR ALL GAMES  Franny or Stephen collect  
pickup and delivery, (times will be  EDUCATION CENTER  Adm. only.  with Holtz. Wants USC, FSU, and  282-2133 TONY  (212)369-2597  
scheduled). $2.00 per page, $10.00  HUMAN RESOURCE DEPT.  Call Sam Santo (H) 201-653-7162,  BC TIX. Please call Connie at 1­ 
minimum. Call Linda Green, 674­ 1ST FLOOR  (W) 201-992-8700  7336 or Connie/Dan at 219-874­ FLOOD RELIEF '93!1!!!!  
4160  635 SO. MAIN ST.  4240.  
SOUTH BEND  Need 2 GAs for any home game  
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS.  FOR MORE INFO., CALL  Call Tim at 273-1757  
CALL 259-8684.  (219) 282-4160.  Need 2 USC GA's call Brian x3467  -1need GAs for the USC  1) Salvation Army is DONATING  
orx05n  game-Please call Katie at  boots. We'll take show sizes at  
############################  FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and  NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITI., USC &  284-5447­ next meeting: 9/19, 7pm, 126  
find out how hundreds of students  FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297.  CARTOONIST SEEKS GA's for the  DeBartolo.  
NEED A D.J.???  are already earning FREE TRIPS  two lovely people who spawned  Need 1 USC student ticket & 2 GAs  
Call Adworks tor professional DJ's!  and LOTS OF CASH with  NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­ me. Any home game. Will pay res­ for family. Please call Rich X-4499  2) Checks ($50) DUE to Megan in  
Our rates are among the lowest on  America's #1 Spring Break compa­ LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­ onable price. Heck, I'd even draw  Alum. Assc. by WED., OCT 13,  
campus! ADWORKS-1-6757.  ny! Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  6183.  somethin' for ya. Call Jay at 271­ Wanted: USC tix, std or GA  5PMI  
Jamaica, Panama, Daytona or  1400 between 6-10 pm any night.  Call Kathy@ x4161  
############################  Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A  We will purchase at handsome  
BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL  price tour seats together for the  WANTED:  
Need Business Cards?  (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222  Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO)  2USCGA's  1 USC stud. 4 sale  
-call Adworks 1-6756  457-0486.  CALL JAMIE@ 273-5910  Chi-Chi @ 1200  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GENNIE!  
LOW PRICES, HIGH QUALITY!!  Do You live near Georgetown or  
D.C.???? I need a ride for fall  CA Alum paying top $tor FLA  THE ROACH  
Anybody interested in doing flood  break-there and back. very friend­ STATE GA's Pis call {916)558-6566  I NEED TIX FOR :  
damage relief in Davenport, Iowa  ly; like to drive; help with gas,  Stud booklet 4 Sale  -usc  MAY THE SACRED HEART OF  
(Quad Cities area) over Fall Break  tolls,etc. call Brian x3043  3 FL ST GA'S 4 SALE Ph 708-420­ Ech 272-1451  -FLA ST.  JESUS BE ADORED, GLORIFIED,  
call Frank at277-9353.  9309  call btw. 4-10 p.m.  -BC  LOVED AND PRESERVED  
Needed: up to 3 USC GA's.  CALL JOHN at 271-1706  THROUGHOUT THE WORLD  
FRESHMEN! Fr. Magazine needs  284-4397  Wanted: ND-FSU tix. No brokers.  NOW AND FOREVER. SACRED  
writing, editing, graphics, photogra­ Call collect PM. Brantley H. Atlanta  HAVE: 8 USC GA-4 are on 50.  HEART OF JESUS HAVE MERCY  
phy, dsktop publishing, business  TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK  (404)396-8715.  FOR SALE  ON US. ST. JUDE WORKER OF  
managers. 1st mtg Sun.,  '94! CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­ Also, 2 BC GA on 50.  MIRACLES PRAY FOR US. ST.  
10/17 4pm, Fresh. Lrning Resource  DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE  USC stud tix  JUDE HELPER OF THE HOPE­ 
Ctr.  PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­ SELLING-FSU GA's  FSU stud tix  LESS PRAY FOR US.  
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  Call Dan @273-0986  NEED: FSU GA's. Trade or Cash.  J.B.  
DELOITIE & TOUCHE  TOURS 1-800-426-7710  Best offer 271 8621  
Management Consulting  -Dan 273-0986  need serious $$$ Arguments $$$  see you later.  
Systems Analyst Program  Hey Ladies,  I NEED TIXS FOR PITI, USC AND  
Presentation/Reception tor all MIS,  Do you like:  BC, AND I'VE GOT MONEY!!!  Football Tickets Notre Dame vs.  3 ST. Tix Book 4 Sale  
CAPP, CS, and CPEG majors.  Alice in Chains, Nirvana, Van  CALL AARON @ 271-2908  BYU $125-$250 call Steve 801­ 273-4002  
Thursday, October 14, 7-9 pm.  Halen, Dino Jr., Ozzy???? If so.  378-4373 or David 801-374-8939  
Alumni Room, Morris Inn.  you'r the ones for us. Call if 'u'  Need 2 USC GA's  
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE  dare. Brian and Ted x3049  Will pay $100 ea  TICKETS NO VS BYU 4-SALE 801­ $$Need 2-4 GA's for USC.$$  
SERVED.  x1868  375-5640  -Call Phil x3543  ALMOST AS SCARY AS THE  
ILOST & FOUND I  Do you think all the "D.C. bound for fall break" people in the classifieds could rent a car together and drive  DESPERATELY NEED NO-USC GA TICKETS. CALL JOE AT  ND ALUM needs several USC GAs. Please call (313)953-5572 after  Will SWAP up to 4 GA B.C. tix for  THOUGHT OF CO-ED HOUSING.  
there? We need someone 21 to  287-4561 AFTER 6 PM.  7pm.  up to 4 GA S.C. tix OR will buy S.C.  COME TO THIS YEAR'S  
LOST: blue London Fog jacket with  rent the car and go with us. Call  tix. 631-6305 or 291-4240  
liner, around Oct. 1. Call Eric  Brian x3043  92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix  8 BYU TIX 50yd Row 14$500 Each  
at3376.  to FLORIDA ST $$$.  OBO 8013739958  Will trade 19" color tv for two GA's  
LOST:  FOR RENT  800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562.  I NEED 1 USC GA NICK x1777  ANY game. 277-6894.  CARROLL HALL  
AT SENIOR BAR  N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets  
ROYAL BLUE NAUTICA JACKET  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ Call Frank or John  Desperate alum in DC need Fla  need 1 FSU st. 277-6894  
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL  ND/SMC EVENTS  1-800-749-5975  State football tickets! Will pay big  HAUNTED HOUSE  
273-5910  (219) 291-7153  Will trade DISNEY tickets  bucks. Call Tom collect after BPM  My cousin Frankie is coming out.  
703-768-8569  He needs one FSU student ticket.  
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 2  Call Joe Russo at 234-6306.  FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15  
LOST: J-Crew Bam jacket(Brown)  Private.  FSU GA'S. BILL 614-885-4616.  For Salelll!lll  
It was lost in late Sept. Please con­ 257-9101  USC Student ticket for sale  7:00 -10:30  
tact Mike at 634-1166 with any  PLEASE!!! I NEED FSU STU TIX.  Will Deal  FOR SALE  
information.  ROOMS FOR RENT, FURN,NEAR  THERESA X2756  Call Brian x3043  1 USC stud; 2 FSU stud  ONLY$2  
CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW.272-6306  233-9279 Richard  
WANTED  Seeking rommate to share house.  Need 2 USC GA Max x1088  I need 1 USC student ticket.  -**l*l*l*l*l**l*l**l*l*l**l*l*l*l*l*l*l*l*l*l*l  
$250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev.  Call Dave X3662  I need 2 tix for USC so PLL­ 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Need 4 USC GA's  LLEEEAAAASSSSEEEE call Mike  * * SLAMMERS II I  
Earn up to $2000+/month + world  Fern. r-mate needed IMMEDIATE- Call Jeff x2000  at 271-1706!!11111  
travel (Hawaii. Mexico, the  L Y Gina 4-2372  %~k#%#%#%#%%#%~k~k#%#  It was the best of times. :)  
Caribbean, etc.). Summer and  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  :( It was the worst of times.  
Career employment available. No experience necessary. For more  HOME-BASED BED & BREAK­FAST ALLIANCE -LOCAL &  FLA. ST. and USC GA"S 2773097  Need FSU Tickets ... along with everyone else on campus. Willing  PERSONAL  But it was AWESOME!  
information call 1-206-634-0468  NOTRE DAME GUESTS.  Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC  to pay$. 4-1918  AWESOME!  
ext.C5584  FL. ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE  Call232-7316 from 7-8 pm.  AWESOME!  
STILL AVAILABLE AT 271-0989.  4 SALE-2 FSU GA'S. BO by  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GENNIE!  Congrats on a great season and  
GREEKS & CLUBS  24-HR. ANSWERING MACHINE.  4 Sale Stu Tix Pitt USC FSU & BC  10/21. Call Rob @x1601.  thanks to our fearless coaches:  ,­ 
2 FSU GAs x1850  Sophomores!! I  Frank, Mike, Mike, Brian, & Howie  
RAISE UP TO $1,000 IN JUST ONE WEEK! For your fraternity,  FOR SALE  Need USC GA's I Flor. Stdnt Tks  NEED 3 STUD. TIX FOR USC. JAY X1534  Consider a life of patient love from  LAST CHANCE TO SIGN UP for  
sorority or club. Plus $1,000 tor  Matt 232-3870  Mom, financial security from Dad,  October Break Trip to Toronto  
yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just  Spring Break! Plan Early -Save  4SALE 2 USC GAS 50 YD LN $100  laughter and music in a country  L'Arche Communities (for the hand­ 
for calling. 1-800-932-0528, ext. 75.  $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices  WANTED: NO/USC GA TIX CALL  EACH X4052  home for your baby. Please call  icapped). Earn 1 credit for this ser­ 
Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6  412-352-3216  Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172  vice experience. Call Bro. B. Scully  
$700/wk cannery workers;  days includes12 meals $279!  NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND  anytime.  at 1-7353.  
$4000/mo. deckhands. Alaska fish­ Panama City room w/ kitchen $129!  NEED 4 USC GA'S  $$$!1!1 CALL TOM 254-9013  
ing industry now hiring for next  Cancun from Chicago $439,  CALL DAN x3402  MARKETING CLUB MEETING!  
summer. 11,000 openings. No exp.  Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GENNIEI  MARKETING CLUB MEETING I  
necessary. Free rm. & bd. These  West $239, Daytona Room w/  NEED 6 GAs to ND vs. USC  NEED 4-8 USC GA'S  
jobs go fast! Employment Alaska. 1­ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386  PLEASE call {517)347-8744 ASAP!  ADOPTION IS LOVE  Thursday, Oct. 14 at 7PM  
206-323-2672  CALL JOE@ X1613  Loving Indiana medical profession­ Rm 122 Hayes-Healy  
SMC ACCOUNTING CLUB IS  2 Notre Dame-BYU tickets 4 sell 40  als eager to adopt newborn.  
We need a Kegirator. Interested in  SELLING RAFFLE TIX FOR A  yrd line call Lance @ (801 )375­ Medical/Legal paid. Confidential.  Refreshments will be served  
selling us one. Please give us a  CHANCE TO WIN 2 GA'S TO ND  9264 6-7:30am or 6-11 pm MST  2 FSU GA'S 4 SALE X4863  Call our home toll free to hear all  PLEASE bring $5 dues!  
call. 234-2793  VS FLORIDA STATE & ONE  about us. Jaci and John 1-800-224­ 
NIGHT AT THE INN AT SAINT  ccccccccuccccccccccoooooo,,,,.,.,,,,,u,,,  HAVE 2 BC GAs, 1 USC & 1 BC  2429.  MARKETING CLUB MEETING I  
WANTED: LOCAL REALTOR  MARY'S FOR $1. CALL BETSY AT  I, like everyone else in the world,  STUD, $$$; NEED 2 USC GAs  MARKETING CLUB MEETING!  
SEEKING HOSTESSES TO  284-5062  need 4 USC tickets. I'm more des­ TRADE? Chris 271-7807  SMC WOMEN! Want to visit your  
HOUSE SIT OPEN HOUSES.  perate than all of them, though.  high school over break as SMC  Molly, Lisa, and Jennifer:  
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING 2-4  One way Air to Atlanta. Leaves  I need 2 USC GAsl  rep? Sign up-Admission Office.  Did we SKIP an entire war?????  
HOURS PER DAY, VARIOUS  S. Bend on Oct 25. $98. Could  Please call me-Diane x4253.  Please call Becca at 4876  Mandatory meeting Thurs. Oct 21  Amy  
DAYS OF THE WEEK. CALL SUE  negotiate car ride back to ND on  5:30 pm Stapleton Lounge.  
AT CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  31st. Leave message 287-6850.  I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's  Matt- 
REALTY 282-2351 . 9-5 MON-FRI  call Beth @ X2615  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GENNIE!  Did you like the roses?  
See DEPECHE MODE in Concert  FOR SALE: 5 FSU student tickets.  Anonymous  
I need a ride to & from DC tor  ROSEMONT HORIZON (Chicago)  Seeking 1 NO vs. USC G.A.  All together. Call Neil634-4417.  Chosen a major yet?  
break. Call 1293.  Fri. Oct.29  If you know of one please call  HELP! I need a ride to  
Bpm  Jocelyn x3842, thanks.  If you are a sophomore, you should  Minneapolis/St. Paul for  
AA CRUISE & TRAVELJOBS.  3 Tix, Floor Seating  consider it. Being declared gives  Oct. break. Please help.  
EARN $2500/MO & TRAVEL THE  Call Ry @4X1163  Wanted -BYU vs ND tickets. Call  you a DART time advantage. If you  Mike-4332  
WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN,  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2-5  801-782-1543  know what you want to declare, do  
EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE  1 Plane tckt.  USC GA or student tix.Colleen634­ it. If not, watch for further into on  Yes, Greg, you're #1!  
LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY  SB to Greenville/  2291.  Best offer by Oct. 22 tor 2 FSU  major counseling sessions spon­ 
HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER  Spartanberg, SC  GA's call Angie 284-541 0  sored by Sophomore Class Council.  
SEASONS. GUARANTEED  10/22 & back  WILL TRADE 3 USC GA'S + PRE­ Please consider this personal ...  
EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­ 10/31 X2485  PAID HOTEL ROOM 2 NIGHT  
4398 ext31  FOR 2 FLA ST GA'S  NEED USC GA's for my parents.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GENNIE!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY, GENNIE!  
2 PWites are looking for a ride to  TICKETS  CALL (618)2n4481 DAYS (618)6327571 NIGHTS  Call Jim @ 289-6648  thank you Mary, St. Jude and Holy  21 years old--YEAH GUBI'SI  
the DC area for fall break. We have  Spirit for favors granted  
gas $, toll $ and charming personal­ I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  Alum needs to Trade BC GA's for  I need two USC GA's Please call  LOVE, CHERYL AND WHITNEY  
ities x2147  TIXS.272-6306  USC GA's. Brian x1979  x1882  HAPPY BIRTHDAY GENNIEI  


page 16 The Observer· CLUB SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS
-Rugby recovers from rough start to defeat top teams 
Drop-In volleyball is on 


new lunch-sized prices!! Use your Student Savings Card for an additional 1Oo/o offl 
r 
Part of the reason for the Rugby club's success is the strength of its back line. Although the Irish line is small­er in size than it has been in recent years, the group is play­ing well together and has been a major part of the club's turn­around this fall. 
That turnaround started two 
' 
weeks ago when the Irish cap­tured the title in the Union Tournament in Chicago. 
l~~ll Rl,:\I'G"IPGI: '~'.;"\'.; li. 1·-fi l>HIIll ITIO~ M,,fRl ~I'· ... H. j 1,.'. ],' ,,~· 
. }n'l"fRI ~ ,\.\ ..J \~·. i ~~. IJAS ~"'''lirGI I k'. lll'. i \1,.1,; lL'. '' ,.._, flRI\GitHIIRI ~ t\'. -4 h''\ j "\' ., \('I 
. Pll~'l.' SHTTU.(PGJ ~h.'. h\' 7 li, 
Y·J(' 

Flower Delivery 7 Days 
P0~Y -ts Piltth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 
( 219) 277_1291

51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 1-800-328-0206 
Coffee, cold showers and fresh air won't save you. 
HAO/LULAC FALL DANCE 
Come dance the night away with the performances by LOS BANDITOS and Salsa and Merengue by the D J. 
Date: Friday, Oct. 15, 1993 Place: Stepan Center Time: 9 p.m. Price: $5 per couple, $4 per person 
Reception! 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Senior Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club is rolling now. 
After a rough start, the Irish have been successful the last two weekends winning three matches and securing a place among the top-64 teams in the nation. 
This fall, the Irish have not found the right combination for beating men's clubs, but the chemistry was right last week­end. Notre Dame dereated the Chicago Lions, the best men's club in Chicago, 15-14. 
The Lions scored on their first try and went ahead 7-0. The Irish kept driving and eventual­ly forced the Lions into penalty trouble. An Irish penalty try tied the game at seven apiece. 
With the Lions going ahead 14-7, the Irish were forced to play catch-up again. Jamie Hill brought Notre Dame within four on a three point conver­sion off a penalty try, but it was freshman Matt Reintjes who put the Irish up for good on a 50­yard try to make the score 15­14. 
bined 98-7. 
The National Chiropractic College fell first 50-0 and then Northern Illinois University fell victim to the Irish 48-7. 
Capturing the tournament ti­tle earned the Irish an auto­matic bid to the first round of the Midwest Tournament on Thursday, October 14, from 7 
p.m. to 10p.m. in the JACC Fieldhouse. For more info, call RecSports at 631-6100. 
Attention Off-Campus stu­dents: Off-Campus lnterhall football has four vacancies. If interested, call273-8859. 
Attention Skiers: $100 

deposits will be accepted for the Christmas Break Ski Trip to Breckenridge, Co. between 8-9 p.m. in LaFortune, by the information desk, on Thursday Any questions? Contact Dave Zidar at 273-3105. 
Attention ND·SMC Equestrian Club: If interest· ed in showing this weekend, call Becky aat 634-3874 ASAP. 
Mandatory meeting for anyone interested in being an official for co-ree basketball on Monday, October 18, 5:00pm at the JACC auditorium. 
· Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the base­ment of Farley. Everyone invit­ed. 
Attention Sailing Club: 

Meeting Thursday at 7 p.m. at the boathouse. Dues will be collected. Any questions call Tucker at 1·1772. 
October 30. Having the Midwest bid secured gave the Irish a real boost heading into the Uons' contest according to club president Mike McGowan. 
McGowan and company are hoping that boost continues through this weekend when the Rugby Club plays Central Michigan University. The con­test will be an indication of how well the Irish are going to fare in the Midwest Tournament. On the line is a chance to host the Midwest Tournament, an honor which is given to the top team in the Midwest. 
Three people die every day from alcohol overdose -the majority are under 21! Follow these guidelines if someone passes out from drinking: 
•Calf
911 or your local emergency rescue. Take action immediately. Never let someone "sleep it of£" 

•
Make sure the person is lying on their side, not onl thie back. 

• 
Nevver leave an unconscious person alone. 

•Monitor 
the person's breathing until help arrives. 


Sponsored by The Office ofAlcohol & Drug Education 
Falcons of Bowling Green. 
Senior Class Dinner at Barnaby's 
Thursday, October 14th 5:30pm 
$4.00 all you can eat 
*sponsored by the senior class 
Thompson 
continued from page 24 
example." 
"She's definitely a quiet per­son, but I don't think she's a quiet player," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. "She's very intense. She's all over the field. Her play is cer­tainly not what I would call quiet or timid." 
"I've always just thought that it's not what you say but how you play," Thompson added. 
It took Tiff some time to dis­cover where she belonged. 
"It's taken me two years," 
she said, " but I've finally found 
my role on the team." 
"Tiffany's done a great job of 
knowing a role and filling a 
role," said Notre Dame head 
coach Chris Petrucelli. "She's 
the kind of player every team 
needs to be successful." 
Certainly, Thompson has the 
talent to put some impressive 
numbers on the scoreboard. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Writers 
Interested in writing sports for the Observer? Enthusiasm the only prerequisite for the job. Meeting for all interested and current writers Monday, Oct. 18, 7 p.m. in Room 303 Haggar. Contact Mary Good or Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540 for more information. 
page 17 

Earlier this season, she set a 
-
Notre Dame record when she earned four assists in a 5-1 Irish victory over Indiana. 
"I don't mind not scoring," explained Thompson, who al­ready has a personal high of 11 assists this season. "I love watching my teammates score. I like setting them up and watching them go." 
Tiffany was discovered by Petrucelli at one of the many tournaments in which she par­ticipated in high school. After playing for the Challenge Soccer Club in Houston and be­ing named All-American in 1989, she chose to join the ranks of the Irish over second choice Duke because of the unique opportunity Notre Dame offered. 
"I was .given the opportunity 
to start at ground level with my 
teammates and build a success­
ful program," Thompson said. 
"It was a challenge." 
She has certainly lived up to 
the challenge since arriving at 
Notre Dame. As a freshman, 
she led the Irish to their first 
national ranking and as a 
sophomore she paced the still 
improving team past its first 
nationally ranked opponent. 
This year, Thompson is part of 
a team which will almost cer­
tainly qualify for its first ever 
NCAA tournament. 
"It's really exciting to watch 
it all happen and to watch it all 
grow before your eyes," she 
said. "Our potential is frighten­
ing. We have so much more to 
offer and so much more to 
give." 

"We don't want to be just a 
nationally recognized team," 
she added. "We want to be a 
nationally feared team." 
With a player like Tiffany 
Thompson in its midfield, Notre 
Dame certainly won't have to 
wait long to achieve this goal. 
Thursday, October 14, 1993 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
pass. The senior knocked in the ensuing penalty kick to give the Irish a 6-0 advantage. 
Following several squan­dered scoring chances later in the second half, senior Jack Elliot finally captured the elu­sive seventh goal with 4:10 to play in the game when he got behind the entire Rambler de­fensive unit and hit the open net. The goal finished the Irish scoring and gave Notre Dame a 7-0 victory. 
The Irish, now 9-4 on the 
season, improved their confer­
ence record to 4-1 and in­
creased their chances of secur­
ing the No. 1 seed in the con­
ference tournament. 
Notre Dame's next contest 
will be Sunday, when they ride 
a three-game win streak back 
into Ohio to take on the 



-~--~~-----~~---~ 
page 18 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT Thursday, October 14, 1993 
-
Craig Adcock 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
John Affleck-Graves 

Finance and Business Economics, Notre Dame 
Joan Aldous 
Sociology, Notre Dame 
Kathleen W. Anthony 
University Audits, Notre Dame 
Kitty Arnold 
Career and Placement Service.r, Notre Dame 
Marilyn Ashbaugh 
Office ofUniversity Computing, Notre Dame 

Anonymous Associate Professor 
College ifArtJ and Letters, Notre Dame 
Jennifer Auerbach 
Accountancy Department, Notre Dame 
Linda Austem 
Program ofliberol Studies, Notre Dame 
Reginald F. Bain 
Conrmunication and Theatre, Notre Dame 
J. Robert Baker Fre.rlrnan Writing Program ,Notre Dame 
Ernest Bartell c.s.c. 
Economics, Notre Dame 
Willis E. Bartlett 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Joseph P. Bauer 
School ofLaw, Notre Dame 
Kimberly A. Baurn 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Gail Bederman 
History, Nwe Dame 
Esmee Bellalta 
Justice Education, St. Mary's 
James 0. Bellis 

Anthropology, Notre Dame 
Joanne Bessler 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Patricia Blanchette 
Philosophy, Nwe Dame 
Joyce Block 
Psychology, St. Mary's 
Thomas F. Bonnell 
English, St. Mary's 
Rebecca Bordt 
Sociology, Notre Dame 
Mario Borelli 
Mathematics, Notre Dame 
John Borkowski 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Vittoria Bosco 
Romance Language.r andliterature, Notre Dame 
Michac;l G. Bowen 
Ma~~agement, Notre Dame 
Calvin Bower 
Music, Notre Dame 
Sunny K. Boyd 
Biological Sciences, Notre Dame 
Carol C. Bradley 
English, St. Mary's 
Douglas E. Bradley 
The Snite Museum ofArt, Notre Dame 
Jay Brandenberger 
Celllerfor Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
Linda S. Buyer 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Mary Caputi 
Political Science, St. Mary's 
Karen Casey 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Darlene Catello 
Music, NOlre Dame 
James Cavendish 
Sociology. Notre Dame 
Linda M. Chalk 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Mark Chaves 
Sociology, Notre Dame 
Michael Chetcuti 
Chemistry and Biochemistry, Notre Dame 
Ann K. Clark 
Philosophy, St. Mary's 
Rosalind Clark 
English, St. Mary's 
David A. Cole 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Robert Randolf Coleman 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Sally Coleman 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Regina Coli c.s.j. 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Austin I. Collins c.s.c. 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Ava P. Collins 

Gender Studies; Officefor Undergraduate Sllldies, Notre Dame 
James M. Collins 

Communication and Theatre, Notre Dame 
Annette C. Conklin 
Music, St. Mary's 
Frank Connolly 
Mathematics, Notre Dame 
Kathy L. Cook 

University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Julie A. Coyle 

Biological Sciences, Notre Dame 
Timothy Cozzens 

Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Louise Oascall 

Chemistry and Biochemistry, NOlre Dame 
Janet Oemin 

Office ofCampus Ministry, Notre Dame 
NormanOowe 

School ifArchitecture, Notre Dame 
Sheila R. Curl 

Engineering Library, Notre Dame 
Andrew Cutrofello 
Philosophy, St. Mary's 
Fred Dallmayr 
Government, Notre Dame 
Roberto Damatta 
Anthropology, Notre Dame 
James P. Danehy 

Chemistry and Biochemistry (Profe.rsor Emeritus) 
S. Darden 
Physics, Notre Dame 
Patricia Davis 
Government, Notre Dame 
Madeline Day 

Centerfor Ethics, College ofBusiness Administration 
Noreen Deane-Moran 
English, Notre Dame 
Kenneth J. DeBoer 

Fre.rhman Year ofStudies, Notre Dame 
Angel Delgado-Gomez 
Romance Language.r and Literature, Notre Dame 
Sally A. Derengi:>ski 
Athletics!RecSports and GolfCourse, Notre Dame 
Michael Detlefsen 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Sue A. Dietl 

University Libraries, Notre Dame 
William J. Dohar c.s.c. 
History, Notre Dame 
Jay P. Dolan 
History, Notre Dame 
Caroline Domingo 
Kellogg Institute, Notre Dame 
Rita Donley 

University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Dennis P. Doordan 

School ifArchitecture, Notre Dame 
Eileen M. Doran 
Legal Aid Clinic, Notre Dame 
Gregory E. Dowd 
History, Notre Dame 
Alan Dowty 
Government, Notre Dame 
Douglas Drabkin 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
John G. Duman 
Biological Science, Notre Dame 
Fernand N. Dutile 
School ofLaw, Notre Dame 
Laurie Echterling 

Philosophy and Science, Notre Dame 
Annie Eiesland 

Institutional Research, Notre Dame 
Edward D. English 
Medieval Institute, Notre Dame 
Carrine Etheridge 
Rector, Farley Hall, Notre Dame 
Kathleen Fagan 
Theology, St. Mary's 
Stephen M. Fallon 

Program ofLiberal Studies, Notre Dame 
Mary C. Fink 

Chemistry and Biochemistry, Notre Dame 
Susan Fitzpatrick 

The Snite Museum ofArt, Notre Dame 
K.B. Flint-Hamilton 
College ifArts a~~d Leaers, Notre Dame 
Sherri Long Foster 

Office ofDevelopment, St. Mary's 
Michael J. Francis 
Government, Notre Dame 
Miguel A. Franco 
Staff Psychologist, Athletic Department Consultant, Notre Dame 
Stephen Fredman 
English, Notre Dame 
Laura Sue Fuderer 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
UmeshGarg 
Physics, Notre Dame 
Sonia Gernes 
English, Notre Dame 
Teresa Ghilarducci 
Economics, Notre Dame 
Jennifer Glass . 
Sociology, Notre Dame 
Richard Gray 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Barbara Green 
English, Notre Dame 
Joseph Gress 
Physics, Notre Dame 
ArtGrubert 
Office ofInternational Student Affairs, Notre Dame 
Jim Gunshinan c.s.c. Office ofCampus Ministry, St. Mary's 
Gary Gutting 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Cynthia W. Haas 
University Village, Notre Dame 
Ethan Raimo 
Music, Notre Dame 
Kate Halischak 
Academic Services, Notre Dame 
Maureen Hallinan 
Sociology, Notre Dame 

Christopher Hamlin 
History, Notre Dame 
Robert V. Hanna 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Sandra J. Harmatiuk 
Fre.rhman YearofStudies, Notre Dame 
Stephen M. Hayes 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Anne Hayner 
Kroc Institutefor International Peace Studies, Notre Dame 
Clayton W. Henderson 
Music, St. Mary's 

Paula Higgins 
Music, Notre Dame 
Rebekah G. Hill 
Music, Notre Dame 
Robert J. Hohl 
Library, Rtference, a11d /nstrudion, St. Mary's 
Scott Holmlund 
Office ofCampus Ministry, St. Mary's 
John W. Houck 
Management, Notre Dame 
Alan Howard 
Mathematics, Notre Dame 
George S. Howard 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Carlos Jerez-Farran 
Romance lAnguages and Literature, Notre Dame 
Paul Johnson 
Music, Notre Dame 
Maureen Jones 
College ifArts and Letters, Notre Dame 
Mark D. Jordan 
Medieval Institute, Notre Dame 
Sophia K. Jordan 
Preservation Department, Notre Dame 
Encarnacion Juarez 
Modem Languages, St. Mary's 
Conrad Kellenberg 
School ofLaw, Notre Dame 
J.B. Kennedy, jr. 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Douglas Kinsey Art, Art History, and Design ,Notre Dame 
Julia F. Knight 
Mathematics, Notre Dame 
Eileen Kolman 
Fre.rhman Year ofStudies, Notre Dame 
Janet A. Kourany 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
William Kremer 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Alan D. Krieger 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Theresa M. Krier 
English, Notre Dame 
William Krier 
English, St. Mary's 
Dominique P. Laflumme 
Office of University Computing, Notre Dame 
JoAnn Lake-Couglin 
Career a11d Placement Services, Notre Dame 
William M. Lewers c.s.c. 
Celllerfor Civil and Huma~~ Rights, Notre Dame 
Blake Leyerle 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Denis J. Lindquist 
Office of University Computing, Notre Dame 
Vicky Littman 
Office of University Computing, Notre Dame 
Louise Litzinger 
Fre.rhman Year ofStudies, Notre Dame 
Robert J. Lordi 
English, Notre Dame 
Ann K. Loux 
English, St. Mary's 
Michael A Lutes 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Scott Mainwaring 
Government, Notre Dame 
Dan P. Manier 
Office of University Computing, Notre Dame 
Karen Manier 
Office ofUniversity Computing, Notre Dame 
Karen Kyle Manier 
Counseling a11d Career Development Center, St. Mary's 
Suzanne M. Manilley 
Government, Notre Dame 
Joyce Manthay 
MBA Program ,Notre Dame 
E.R. Marshalek 
Physics, Notre Dame 
Leslie H. Martin 
English, Notre Dame 
Vicki J. Martin 
Biological Sciences, Notre Dame 
Nancy Mascotte 
Counseling a11d Career Development Center, St. Mary's 
Andrew Mathas 
Mathematics, Notre Dame 
Richard P. McBrien 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Sabrina A. McCarthy 
Centerfor Civil a11d Huma~~ Rights, Notre Dame 
Thomas McDermott c.s.c. 
Office ofCampus Ministry, Notre Dame 
Paul R. McDowell 
Roma/ICe Languages and Literature, Notre Dame 
Robert P. Mcintosh 
Biological Sciences (Professor Emeritus), Notre Dame 
Vaughn R. McKim 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Don McNeill c.s.c. 
Centerfor Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
Garth Meintjes 
School ofLaw, Notre Dame 
John Melloh s.m. 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Thomas V. Merluzzi 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Mark D. Meyerson 
History, Notre Dame 
Joseph Miller 
Psychology, St. Mary's 
Mike W. Miller 
Office ofUniversity Computing, Notre Dame 
Robert C. Miller 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Nathan D. Mitchell 
Centerfor Pastoral Liturgy, Notre Dame 
Carol Ann Mooney 
School ofLaw, Notre Dame 
Kenneth E. Moore 
Anthropology, Notre Dame 
Shiree Moreland 
Office of University Computing, Notre Dame 
Martin F. Murphy 
Anthropology, Notre Dame 
Dian Murray 
History, Notre Dame 
Alven Neiman 
College ofArts a11d Letters (Assistant Dean), Notre Dame 
Kathie E. Newman 
Physics, Notre Dame 
Stephen P. Newton c.s.c. 
Office ofStudent Affairs; Rector,.Sorin Hall, Notre Dame 
Pamela J. Nicholas 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
~------------~~ ---~~-~ ---~~-------­
page 19

Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT 
Elizabeth Noel Robert M. Slabey ­
English, St. Mary's English, Notre Dame 


Cornelius O'Boyle 
Program ofliberal Studies, Notre Dame 
Sharon O'Brien 
Government, Notre Dame 
William O'Rourke 
English, Notre Dame 
Abel P. Olivas 
Romance Languages and literature, Notre Dame 
Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams 
Romance Languages andliterature, Notre Dame 
Erik R. Olson 
Chemistry and Biochemistry, Notre Dame 
Michael Paese 
Assistant Rector, Fisher Hall, Notre Dame 
Paul Perl 
Sociology, Notre Dame 
Erskine Peters 
English, Notre Dame 
Teresa Godwin Phelps 
School oflaw, Notre Dame 
Patrick A. Pierce 
Political Science, St. Mary's 
Anand Pillay 
Mathematics, Notre Dame 
Carolyn Plummer 
Music, Notre Dame 
Jean Porter 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Margaret Porter 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
C. Shea Powell 
Residence Life, St. Mary's 
James H. Powell 
Graduate Sclvol, Notre Dame 
Kathleen Pyne 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Philip L. Quinn 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Hilary Radner 
Communication and Theatre, Notre Dame 
Maricela Ramirez 
OfJia ofMulticultural Affairs, St. Mary's 
William Ramsey 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Frank K. Reilly 
Finance and Business Economics, Notre Dame 
Marcia Rickard 
Art, St. Mary's 
Mary Ann Roemer 
Centerfor Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
Silvia Rojas-Anadon 
Romance Languages and uterature, Notre Dame 
Charles Rosenberg 
Art, Art History, and Design, Notre Dame 
Jill Ross 
Romance Languages and Uterature, Notre Dame 
Joseph Ross c.s.c. 
Rector, Morrissey Hall, Notre Dame 
Katherine G. Rosswurm 
Admission Counselor, St. Mary's 
Kathleen Royer 
Centerfor Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
R.L. Rutsky 
C(JJH, Notre Dame 
Kathryn Ryan-Zeugner 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Lucy Salsbury Payne 
School oflaw. Notre Dame 
Billy Ray Sandusky 
Art, St. Mary's 
Valerie Sayers 
English, Notre Dame 
Patricia A. Sayre 
Philosophy, St. Mary's 
W. Robert Scheidt 
Chemistry and Biochemistry, Notre Dame 
James H. Seckinger 
School oflaw, Notre Dame 
Wendy H. Settle 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Ross A. Shanley-Roberts 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
Colette M. Shaw 
Residence Life, St. Mary's 
Richard G. Sheehan 
Finance and Business Economics, Notre Dame 
Daniel Sheerin 
Classical and Oriental Languages, Notre Dame 
Wendy W. Shih 
Office ofUniversity Computing, Notre Dame 
Peter D. Smith 
Mathematics, St. Mary's 
Thomas Gordon Smith 
School ofArclitecture, Notre Dame 
J. Eric Smithburn 
School oflaw, Notre Dame 
A.L. Soens 
English, Notre Dame 
Judy Spiro 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Mathew Boyd Steffens 
University Archives, Notre Dame 
Susan Steibe-Pasalich 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
James P. Sterba 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
Martha Stevenson 
University Libraries, Notre Dame 
William G. Storey 
Theology(Professor Emeritus), Notre Dame 
Julie Storme 
Modern Languages, St. Mary's 
Daniel Stowe 
Music, Notre Dame 
Sharon Sumpter 
University Archives, Notre Dame 
Thomas R. Swartz 
Economics, Notre Dame 
William Tageson 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Peter W. Thornton 
School oflaw (Professor Emeritus), Notre Dame 
Kern R. Trembath 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Barbara M. Turpin 
Graduate School, Notre Dame 
Eugene Ulrich 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Michele Urban 
Assistant Director ofAdmissions, St. Mary's 
Patrick W. Utz 
University Counseling Center; Psychology, Notre Dame 
Linnea B. Vacca 
English, St. Mary's 
Robert Vacca 
Classical and Oriental Languages, Notre Dame 
Dominic 0. Vachon 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Beverly Vandiver 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Edward Vasta 
English, Notre Dame 
Jaime R. Vidal 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Ralph R. Vogel 
Administrative Information Services, Notre Dame 
Peter W alshe 
Government and International Studies, Notre Dame 
James Walton 
English, Notre Dame 
Kathleen Mass Weigert 
Centerfor Social Concerns, Notre Dame 
Paul J. Weithrnan 
Philosophy, Notre Dame 
John Welle 
Romance Languages and Literature, Notre Dame 
Shaun L. Wellen 
Office ofSpecial Events; Dept. ofC.TD., St. Mary's 
Carolyn M. West 
University Counseling Center, Notre Dame 
Max Jay Westler 
English, St. Mary's 
James F. White 
Theology, Notre Dame 
Karen J. White 
Psychology, Notre Dame 
Tracy Wickham 
Music, Notre Dame 
Ursula Williams 
Language Resource Center, Notre Dame 
Anne Marie Wolf 
Freshman YearofStudies, Notre Dame 
Robert J. Wozsin 
Anthropology, Notre Dame 
Frederick D. Wright 
African and African-American Studies, Notre Dame 
Susan Y ouens 
Music, Notre Dame 
Greg J. Zuschlag 
Theology, Notre Dame 


our conviction that Notre Dame and St. Mary's ought to become safer places for those in them who are addressing questions about their sexual orientation. Our intention is not to start a cycle of polemics in The Observer, but to offer some help to the vulnerable. 
The imperative here arises from the most basic human rightso Lesbian, gay, and bisexual members of our community should not have to live in fear. They should not have to fear harassment, the impositions of self­hatred, infringements of intellectual liberty, the loss of employment, physical violence, or sexual abuse. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's are not always places where human diversity is comfortably tolerated, much less fully protected. As members of the staff and faculty, we undertake to make the parts of the campuses in which we work more open to persons of diverse sexual orientation. And we urge every member of the • community to strive to ensure surer safeguards for the community as a whole. 
--------· ------­
---~--------------~ --~-. 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 1993 
Belles rebound to defeat Bethel 
By MARY GOOD 
Saint Mary'• Sporu Editor 
After losing a hard fought battle against Calvin and coming out victorious over Bethel in Tuesday night's tri· angular match, the Saint Mary's volleyball team is well prepared for the stilt compe­tition they are facing today against Concordia. 
Tuesday night the Belles started out slow and flat in their first game against Calvin, but they gained strength in game two.. 

· "In the second game we played so well that defensive­ly, Calvin couldn't handle our offense; Belles' eoaeh Julie Scbroeder-Biek said. 
Despite the rally in game two, however, Saint Mary's was defeated by Calvin. 

·uwe bad been playing the game we normally play, we would have beat them, said Schroeder-Biek. 
Calvin went on to beat 
Bethel in a three game 
match. 
When Saint Mary's took on Bethel they did not let their earlier loss discourage them. They continued to improve and they came out victorious in five games. 
"Against Bethel, the girls started talking and playing again," said Scbroeder-Biek. 
Disappointed after losing to Calvin, the Belles spirits were lifted by the win over Bethel. 
"Hopefully our good spirits will give us the strength to pull otT tonight's game," said Schroeder-Biek. 

"The competition tonight at Concordia should prove to be a similar challenge for the Belles,'' Schroeder-Biek com­mented. 
Earlier in the season, Concordia defeated Calvin and knocked them out of the rankings. 
The Belles lost to Concordia 
last year, but both teams are 
doing well this season, 
Schroeder-Biek said. 
Since Concordia bas a strong middle attack, the Belles worked hard on their double blocking in the middle in their practice last night. They also worked on their serve reception. 
"Concordia is going to be a good challenge today. It will help us determine where we are at mid-season," Schroeder-Biek said. 
DMlOKBACK 
AFillfl BrO. A. PeMtbaker' 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:30 

Phillies impossible dream is a reality 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
They went from worst to first, and now they've beaten the best. 
Tommy Greene outpitched baseball's best pitcher and the refuse-to-lose Philadelphia Phillies again outplayed base­ball's best team, beating the Atlanta Braves 6-3 in Game 6 of the NL playoffs Wednesday night to reach their first World Series since 1983. 
Impossible? 

"We never felt that way. All year long we never felt like underdogs," Phillies manager Jim Fregosi said. "It's been an amazing year. This is mar­velous." 
Incredible? 

"This is all we've talked about since February," Greene said. "This team is a dream. We've got guys who love to play and have waited all their lives for this." 
Indescribable? 

"It's the ugly stepsister being invited to the prom by the best­looking guy in class," Phillies reliever Larry Andersen said. 
Dave Hollins had a two-run homer, and Darren Daulton and Mickey Morandini had two­run extra-base hits off Greg Maddux. Morandini had an even-bigger shot that didn't show up in the box score, lining a ball off Maddux's right leg in the first inning. Maddux had been almost unbeatable since the All-Star break, just like the Braves, who won 51 of their last 70 just to win the NL West but couldn't win their third straight pennant. 
"It was a real struggle for us, every game for the last two months was must win, but I don't think that was the dif­ference," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "The Phillies are a championship-caliber team. They were great this whole series." 
Only the third team in major­league history to go from last place to the pennant in one year, the Phillies -30-1 under­dogs just to win their division -will play the defending champion Toronto Blue Jays in the World Series beginning Saturday night. 
"We've got the big games to come," Greene said. "We can't wait. We'll be there Saturday ... it's all we've talked about." 
"Ya Gotta Believe" was the Phillies' theme when they last won pennants in 1980 and 1983, but who would have be­lieved this? 
Maddux was 15-2 since July 7 and embarrassed Greene and the Phillies 14-3 in Game 2, but he couldn't win the biggest game of the season. And now there's no season left for the Braves, whose 104 wins are the most for a non-pennant winner since the 1942 Dodgers. 
Greene couldn't make it past the third inning of Game 2, but on the biggest night of his life, made sure the Braves wouldn't make it to Game 7, where they beat Pittsburgh in both 1991 and 1992. 
Fooling with the Braves with off-speed pitches mixed with his hard stuff, Greene figured out every hitter but Jeff Blauser, who had an RBI single and a two-run homer in the seventh when the Phillies already led 6-1. 
It was a cataclysmic loss for the Braves, who talked of noth­ing but winning the World Series after losing there the last two years -only to end up with nothing. 
"When you've been on the ride as long as we've been, this is disappointing," the Braves' John Smoltz said. "It's frustrat­ing not to be going to the World Series." 
The Braves ended the divi­sional playoffs like they started them 25 years ago -with a loss. They were upset by the destiny's darling New York Mets in the first divisional play­offs in 1969 and, this time, by an almost-as-big underdog in failing to become the first team since the 1942-44 Cardinals to win three straight pennants. The playoffs will revert to a four-team, three division for­mat in 1994. 
"Will we be the same team next year? I think we're a pret­ty good team now," Cox said. 
Maddux was the NL's best starting pitcher, losing only twice in 18 starts and not allowing more than two earned runs in his last 14 starts. But he wasn't the same pitcher after Morandini, the Phillies' second batter of the game, lined a shot off the fleshy portion of his inner right calf only to be thrown out by the second base­man. 
Thursday, October 14, 1993 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 21 
-

Alumni, Zahm await marquee battle 

Naugh will face a winless Last week the offense was Sorin team in the 3 p.m. game unable to muster much of any­that looks to close out the sea­thing against Zahm in their 3-0 son with a victory. loss. 
By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
As the playoffs approach, both Zahm and Alumni are gaining momentum. 
Stepan Field will be the site Sunday when they meet in the blue league's marquee game at 2p.m. 
No. 3 Zahm is coming off a brilliant defensive game in a 3­D win against Sorin while No. 8 Alumni looks for its second up­set in as many weeks. 
The Dawgs climbed three notches in the power poll after knocking off No. 3 St. Ed's 14-7 on a last minute fumble recov­ery and touchdown. 
Alumni head coach Paul Zachlin the observer sucks was proud of his team's perfor­mance last week, but recog­nizes the tough test ahead against Zahm. 
"They are a very good de­fensive team and we will have to adjust to the type of game they play," said Zachlin. 
This type of game Coach Zachlin is refering to involves Zahm's use of the wishbone offense to control the ball for long stretches in the game. 
The Rabid Bats were able to completely shut down Sorin last Sunday and post their second victory in a row using the wish­bone. Expect a close game Sunday as Zahm looks to keep a good thing going against the high-powered offense of Alumni. 
Fisher vs. St. Ed's 
After having a bye last week, No. 1 Fisher hopes to guard against a letdown as they take on No. 9 St. Ed's in the 1 p.m. this week at Stepan. 
Their last game was two weeks ago as they shutout Alumni 19-0. Sunday, the Green Wave looks to clinch a spot in the playoffs with a win against St. Ed's. 
"It was good to get some rest after being sore from the Alumni game," said sophomore captain Jeff Biever. "The object now is not to get overconfident. 
St. Ed's hopes to rebound from their heartbreaking loss to Alumni 14-7. 
The defense kept them in the game holding off strong drives by Alumni, but four turnovers by the offense helped to seal their fate. The costly one com­ing at their own three-yard line with under a minute left. 
Cavanaugh vs. Sorin 
With two minutes remaining in Cavanaugh's game against Carroll Sunday the picture looked bleak for Naugh. They were about to go 0-1-1 and would probably be forced to win their next two games in order to qualify for the playoffs. 
However. Cavanaugh man­aged to start moving the ball led by running back Mike Norbut who would eventually take it in for the score with un­der a minute to play and send them up to No. 5 in the polls. 
"We just hung in there," said head coach Tony Nowak. 
Nowak went on to add that the defensive player to watch is sophomore Joe 0' Malley. 0' Malley came up with the inter­ception to snuff out Carroll's last scoring chance and pre­serve the win. 

season. "We're on a roll," stated
Interhall 
Kelley. "We're playing Walsh
Look who go 
football again." 
continued from page 24 
her present 
tonight, we have a good out­In this game the scoring came look." stated Byrd. from many sources. Senior .Badin 4-1 1. P. West
early! 

"We are going to be tough," Terry Castellucci scored on a Lyons 3-2 2. Lewis 3-2 · said the quarterback, summing run while captain Erin Nicholas Howard 3-2 3. Farley 3-2 
Walsh 3-2 4. P. East 3-2
Happy 21$1 
up the feelings of the teamates, scored on a pass from quarter­
Pangborn 1-4 5. Siegfried 2-3
who seem very confident going back Stephanie Shef)ts. 
B.P. 1-4 6. Knott 0-5 ' 
into the playoffs. In the second half, Sheets was Walsh 18, Pangborn 0 iiJ.ble to put the game away 
8-Day 

CMSatSMC 
when she ran a quarterback Walsh won their third con­keeper 50 yards for the score. 
Badin 15 

secutive game last night to im­
Breen-Phillips 7 

prove their record to 3-2. Kelley thinks that the team
70-74-93 

Junior cornerback Meghan should do well in the playoffs, In the final game of the regu­
Kelley feels that the team has "We have to play our own game." stated the junior. "If we lar season, Badin improved its 
i~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~ made a comp Jete turnaround record to 4-1 with an impres­
from the first two games of the do we'll be alright." 
sive win over Breen-Phillips.
OCTOBER IS 
Badin scored on their first drive on a touchdown pass
CUSTOMER APPRECIATION MONTH 
from quarterback Shari Shepard to teammate Alison Meriaux. Sophomore Jill Satanex then scored the two­point conversion to put Badin
THANK YOU 
up 8-0.
BE A STAR! 
B.P. was able to score before 
the half to pull within one. In the second half Sheppard
SPECIALS 
Make your own music video! 
connected with Meriaux for her second score of the day. Junior
2C COPIES 
Erin Osborne then scored the Limit 500 per customer, 
extra point to put Badin up 15­
7.

8.5" x 11" White Bond. 
B.P.'s record fell to 1-3 and

'fJhumrsdlay 
they will probably not make the playoffs. Badin, on the other hand, could enter the playoffs
49( FAX 

Oct. 14 
as the No. 1 seed and will be
Sending & Receiving, 
looked at by many teams as the domestic transmissions only, per page. 
team to beat when the playoffs
li tmm-Spm 
begin. 
2 Watch for this Friday's lLaJFortumme 
special section . . .
Ground, 2-Day or Overnight & All Other UPS Services. Per customer, per day. 
FR.EE! 
Notre Dame 

Just like last year's Fun Flicks: 
vs. 


BYU
~·MAIL BOXESETC." 
liil18115S.R. 23 (Martin's Ironwood Plaza) South Bend, IN 46637 Open: (219) 277-6245 9am-7pm Mon-Fri Fax(219)277-7679 10am-6pm Sat 
Franch1ses lnoependenlly Owned c~. Operaled. 
tel 992 Ma1i BoxP.s Ere. 




--~---------~-­
.r
''" r.r-.·· 

page 22 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL Thursday, October 14, 1993
-

Keenan, Morrissey to decide Gold League's best 
By G.R. NELSON Spans Writer 
Third-ranked Keenan (2-0) takes on No. 1 Morrissey (3-0) in the Gold League's in a battle for first-place in the Gold League. 
Morrissey's defense has car­ried them all year long, and this game should be no exception. For Morrissey to have a chance, their offense must step up and deliver against a stingy Keenan defense. 
Keenan defeated Stanford last week 13-12 largely because of some key Stanford mistakes. 
This week, Keenan's defense has something to prove. "Our defense had an off week (against Stanford)," said 
Keenan  captain  Matt  
Makowski, "But  we  will be  
ready for Morrissey."  

This game has all the mak­ings of a defensive battle. The team that makes the least mis­takes and generates a little offense should capture the top spot. 
Stanford vs. Dillon 

The winner of the Stanford (1-1-1) and Dillon (1-1) game makes the playoffs; the loser most likely will not. With their seasons on the line, both teams will be ready. 
Dillon should be well rested coming off their bye week. The Big Red needs to find its rhythm early if it wants to de­feat Stanford. 
Stanford is coming off a tough loss against second-ranked Keenan. Stanford outplayed Keenan most of the game, but made several crucial mistakes. "We're a good football team," said Stanford's Chris Pollina, "But we must eliminate the stu­pid mistakes if we want to be a 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Morrissey running back Justin Kruer takes a hit from a Flanner defender. Morrissey battles Keenan for the top spot in the Gold League this weekend. 


great one." 
Dillon eliminated Stanford from playoff contention last year, and Stanford wants re­venge. However, Stanford knows that this is no easy task. 
"Dillon is a super football team," said Stanford's Brett Galley, "We will have to play near perfect football to have a chance." 
Off-Campus vs. Planner 

In another game with playoff implications, Off-Campus (1-1) plays Planner (0-2-1). The win­ner needs a victory to stay alive while the loser is officially elim­inated from postseason compe­tition. 
Off-Campus defeated Grace 8­6 last Sunday and hopes to con­tinue its winning ways against Planner. 
"Grace moved the ball against us early," said Off-Campus full­back Matt Carr, "But our defense stepped up in the sec­ond half." 
Planner lost to Morrissey 6-0 last week but hopes to rebound against Off-Campus. 
OCT. 13 .. 17 
RON WHITE 

You've seen him on showtime, now see him in person!! SHOWTIMES: 
WED & TIIURS 8:00 PM FRI & SAT 8:00 & 10:15 PM SUNDAY 8:00PM 

POWER POLL 
10/5 TEAM REC. 9/28 
1. Morrissey 3-0-0 2 2. Fisher 2-0-0 1 3. Keenan 2-0-0 6 4. Zahm 2-0-1 5 5. Cavanaugh 1-0-1 7 6. Stanford 1-1-1 4 7. St. Edward's 1-1-1 3 8. Alumni 1-1-0 11 9. Dillon 1-1-0 7 10. Off-Campus 0-2-1 9 11. Flanner 0-2-1 10 12. Carroll 0-2-1 12 13. Sorin 0-3-0 13 14. Grace 0-3-0 14 
STANDINGS 
GOLD DIVISION BLUE DIVISION 
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 
Morrissey 1 . Fisher Keenan 2. Zahm Stanford 3. Cav. Dillon 4. St. Ed's Off-Campus 5. Alumni Flanner 6. Carroll Grace 7. Sorin 
ObseiVer graphic 

BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION 
THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 2:~-l-4015. 
@}£~==::::1 AUDITIONS!!! AUDITIONS!!! AUDITIONS!!! 
The Odd Couple 
by Neil Simon 
Presented by Cavanaugh Hall Players Open Auditions for Women 
October 13 & 14, 7-9pm Cavanaugh Hall Basement 
The Longest Running Hall Play on Campus!!! 


1352 Scottsdale Mall • South Bend, IN • (219) 299-9999 • Located on the Lower Level Next to Montgomery Wards • 
rs";yo; Ad;i;ro-; 'GeTo";e, 
: I@" FREE ~ : 
I Valid Sw1<lays Only •Expires 11/14/93 I I Must Present Coupon I lo ~I I~ . ' _fl I '6 fiUN y ON. 0 I
L :f_ ":..~.:.. ___ ~ _o_ .J 

Thursday, October 14, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 


BE A STAR! 
Make your own music video! 

1rlhnUtrs Oct li 4
0 

li li~m~5pm 
ILa1Fort1Ullffi e 
F.R···E=··E···.·t
. ,': ',.
.. ... 

so Meteorite's creation 52 Point out in a lineup 57 End of the comment 
59 German river 60 Uneven 61 Sector 62 Mechanical 
repetition 63 Pub missile 64 Stratum 
DOWN 
1 Served 
perfectly 2 Change abodes 3 Singer Ed-­
4 Canvas cover, for short 5 Coffee-break treat 6Sir­Guinness 7 Kitty comment 8 Disposed to love 9 Biblical preposition 10 Sample 11 Organic compound 12 Clipped 14--voce 17 Teen-agers 18 Not any 22 Chum, for one 
24 Autumnal hue 25 Pelagic body 26 Avoid artfully 
A.,. AmAlTEe. OF Fl\cT, WE. Ke::;('Ec:r Ilk ~ou~'S 
Lf" FOLK'S Pv• IN '" AN (\NC:IENT /l.tJT> NoRLE. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

DAVE KELLETT 
ANt> 'So· .. (,JE. APoL06rz£.. 
I 


1>12-oFESStCN·· · 
27 Like some of Koufax's games 28 Snakelike fish 29 Before: Prefix 32 Golfer Mallon et al. 33 Fireplace residue 34 Bottom line 36 Baseball ploy 37 Occupant 39Wooed 42 Molding 43 Most expansive 

44 Mountain ridge 53 The other 45 Thespian one 46Soup, in a 
54 Yesterday, in trattoria 
Pis a 

47 Youngest son 55 Liberate 51 Flag 56 Mercury's 88 52 Aircraft 
days designer 58 Domesday Sikorsky Book money 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 {75¢ each minute). 
Eskimo rescue units 
OF INTEREST 

DINING HALL 
.... 
... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Latin I word 5 Lady of Spain 9 Western Indians 
13 Cook book 14 Witch town of yore 15 Poet Ogden 
16 Start of a Mark Twain comment 19 Like an autocrat 20 Impatient driver, often 
21 Dos, formerly 22 Crib 23 Suffix with south 
24 Twain comment: Part II 
28 Eocene, e.g. 30Fib 

31 Arabian Sea gulf 
35 Author Gardner et al. 
36 Twain comment: Part Ill 
37 Not those 
38 Mother of Castor and Pollux 
39 Chew the -­(ruminate) 40 "-Men Out," 1988 film 
41 Twain comment: Part IV 
45 Alphabet start 48 One kind of feeling 49 Retirement-plan initials 



ust like last year's Fun Flicks: : 
STIJDENT UNION BOARD 
• 

crazy stuff and more!
eep a video of the experience. • • 
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
•
•
•
• 
Friday, Oct 15 8 :30pm-l :30am, Ballroom featuring ... 
CSWINGINS'
RAWDAD Blues Band 
•• 1rlhle Greatt Gatt§lby
• 

Oct. 14
•

• 7:30 & I0:30pm
•

•• Montgomery Theater •
•
•
•
•
•
• 


-
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, October 14, 1993 
Men's soccer leaves no doubt in 7-0 rout 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team left nothing in doubt last night as they trounced Loyola of Chicago 7-0. 
"I think the whole team played well for 90 minutes," commented Irish head coach Mike Berticelli, who is one win away from his third consecutive ten win season at the helm of the soccer program. "We we're working on finding the open man and we did a good job of that tonight." 
The Irish dominated the Ramblers in all facets of the game, compiling 24 shots on goal compared to only eight for Loyola. Notre Dame also spread the wealth around, with seven different players con­tributing in the scoring. 
Irish goalies Bert Bader and David Smith combined to record Notre Dame's third straight shutout. Including his three shared shutouts, Bader's career total is now 23, breaking the all-time career shutout record of 22 set by John Milligan between 1978-81. 
Notre Dame's first goal came just 11:45 into the contest, as Jean Joseph scored his second goal of the season to give the Irish an early 1-0 lead. 

Forward Bill Lanza and de­fender Dane Whitley were cred­ited the assists on the play. Joseph finished the game with a goal and two assists in his fifth start of the season. 
"I was really pleased with the way Jean played," continued Berticelli. "I think he's found a home at outside midfielder." 
Notre Dame increased their lead to 2-0 at the 20:17 mark, when Lanza streaked past the Hambler defense off a Joseph pass and drilled a shot past Loyola goalie Steve Bieg. 
The Irish kept the heat on the Ramblers, scoring just 4:54 later in the first half. Junior Keith Carlson headed in a Lanza cross pass to give Notre Dame a 3-0 advantage. 
Lanza, who recorded both game-winning goals last week­end, now leads the team with 26 points on the season. The sophomore tallied a goal and three assists in last night's vic­tory. 
The Irish closed out the scor­ing in the first half at the 32:01 the lineup without the team los­corner of the net out of the ing any intensity. reach of a diving Steve Bieg. 
"I credit the guys off the Joseph and captain Mike bench," continued Berticelli. Palmer were credited the as­"We feel we have guys on the sists. bench that can step in and keep Palmer added a goal of his the momentum going." own at the 59:55 mark when he 
Sophomore Ben Ketchum in­was fouled in the penalty box creased the Irish lead to 5-0 at after taking a Bill Lanza drop the 51 :40 mark when he blast­ed a shot into the upper left see SOCCER I page I 7 
Intense Thompson shines in the shadows 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assisram Sporrs Ediror 
She is the archetypical unsung hero, the prototype of a quiet leader. 
When junior midfielder Tiffany Thompson takes the field for the Notre Dame women's soccer team, she needs neither glitz nor glare to prove her value. 
Whether she is taking an Irish cor­nerkick, as she has done for the past three seasons, or salvaging a Notre Dame offensive attack by breaking up an opponent's attempt clear the zone, Thompson successfully fulfills her duties and then immediately focuses on the task at hand. 
She possesses a unique form of intensity. She is satisfied not by per­sonal aggrandizement and spectacu­lar play-making, but by making sure that her teammates have the opportunity to put away an Irish vic-

Junior midfielder Tiffany Thompson (left) is quiet by nature, but her intense play speaks volumes. 
tory. 

Thompson's passion for the sport and for her team is imminent in her aggressive and selfless play in the midfield. She spends 90 minutes a game fearlessly attacking rapidly ap­proaching opponents and risking painful hits while perfectly timing headers of dubiously positioned air balls. 
It's 100 percent intensity. 
Her style of play can be clearly wit­nessed in the way she handles her cornerkicking responsibility. The typical scenario results in Tiff per­fectly placing the ball in the penalty box and waiting for her teammates to capitalize on the lethal scoring opportunity. While her companions exalt in the glory of a goal, Thompson simply pats the goal-scor­er on back and assumes her position. 
It's not that the Houston, Texas native doesn't pride herself in her personal accomplishments. She sim­ply knows that team accomplish­ments far outweigh individual suc­cesses and that the best reflection on a player is not how many goals you claim, but how many wins you claim. 
"Her desire to win influences everyone else," said Irish tri-captain Andi Kurek. "She doesn't get a lot of the recognition she deserves, but there would be a huge gap on this team if she wasn't here." 
Indeed, due to her quiet nature Thompson can easily get lost on a team which features arguably the best freshman in the nation in Cindy Daws and perhaps the greatest play­er in the program's history in tri­captain Alison Lester. But Tiff finds confidence in her silence. 
"As strange as it sounds, I think that's my role," she said. ''I'm not so much of a vocal leader. I lead by 
see THOMPSON I page 17 
Lyons uses second half spurt to defeat Howard; Walsh hammers Pangborn 
By SCOTT CLEMENTE Spons Writer 
In the featured game of the night, Lyons' solid­ified their hold on a playoff spot with a 19-7 vic­tory over Howard. 
The win improved Lyons record to 3-2, while Howard fell to 3-2. It was the second loss in two weeks for Howard, as they were unable to recov­er from last week's loss to Badin. 
The offenses of both teams had trouble moving the ball most of the first half, until the Howard offense was finally able to go in for the score. Quarterback Sue Wassil ran the ball in on a quarterback keeper to make the score 6-0 in favor of Howard. The extra point attempt was successful and Howard led 7-0 at the half. 
In the second half, Lyons quicky got their offense going, scoring the first time they had the ball. Quaterback Julie Byrd hooked up with teammate Wendy Holthaus on a 30-yard touch­down pass. The extra point failed and Lyons trailed 7-6. 
The defense then contributed to the scoring for Lyons when Maureen Hill intercepted a Howard pass and raced 40 yards for the score. This time the extra point was successful and Lyons built a 13-7lead. 
Howard then got the ball back but was unable to score against the Lyons defense. They were forced to turn ball over after a failed fourth down attempt. 
When Lyons got the ball back they capitalized quickly. Byrd led the offense down the field and then was able to score herself on a quarterback keeper. The extra point was no good but with a 19-7 lead the Lyons team had clearly secured victory. 
Lyons can now look forward to the playoffs which start after mid-semester break. Byrd believes that her team should be in the hunt for the championship. "We played well 
see INTERHALL I page 21 

mark, when junior Jason Fox headed in another Lanza cross pass to make the halftime score 4-0. 
The Ramblers came out in the second half with an aggressive attitude, but could not generate any substantial scoring chances against the Irish defense. Coach Berticelli was able to insert his reserve players into 
Inside SPORTS Men's lnterhall 

NLCS SMC 
... 
Playoff berths on the line 

Belles' volleyball Phillies capture first in weekend action 

rebounds from tough loss to dump Bethel see pages 21-22 pennant since 1983 
see page 20 see page 20 






