

~-------------­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 134 TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

University approves honor code 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
The honor code which has been in effect at Notre Dame since 1987 on an experimental basis has been approved as the University's official policy for academic honesty, according to Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate provost and member of the Academic Code of Honor Committee. 
The University's Academic Council unanimously approved the Academic Code of Honor at its meeting March 17, Williams said. 
The honor code serves as a way to "morally educate stu­dents," Williams said. "The code gives students a way to prepare for real life in the pro­fessional work force," he added. 
The Academic Council made several changes to the code, according to Williams. The code includes the following major modifications: 
•Departmental 
honesty. committees will include more students than faculty members, with the ratio of 3 to 2. In the future, the University hopes to incorporate committees com­prised solely of students. 

•As 
a precondition for ad­mission to Notre Dame, the University will require incoming freshmen to sign a pledge stating they will abide by the rules of the honor code during all academic affairs. 

•The 
accuser may remain anonymous to the accused stu­dent(s) during the interrogation process, but during the hearing the accuser must be present with whomever he or she ac­cuses. In the past the committee respected the anonymity of the accuser throughout the entire 


process. 
"This modification is an important part of the American sense of rights," Williams said. "When someone is accused, he or she has the right to know who the accuser is." 
Debra Heerensperger, a ju­nior in the College of Science, will chair the Academic Code of Honor Committee next year and will work with several faculty members representing the four colleges. 
"Our main goal for next year is to educate and to inform people about the honor code," said Heerensperger. "A lot of people don't understand how it works." 
"Students should realize how the code benefits the entire Notre Dame community and enhances the already existing 
see CODE I page 4 

Student Senate sets activity fee 

By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Last night the Student Senate unanimously approved the Stu­dent Activity Fee Budget for the 1993-1994 academic year. The Student Senate Budget Com­mittee decided the budget. 
"The ... Student Activity budget encompasses virtually every aspect of student life here at Notre Dame," wrote Student 
Body Treasurer Connor Murphy in a letter to the senate 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 

Bump, set , spike 
members. "Those attending 
Notre Dame law student Tim Kaiser plays 2-man volleyball on the 
school next fall should begin the 
sand court behind Morrissey Hall. With the warm weather 
year knowing that their money 
approaching, outdoor sports become popular activities. 
is spent wisely." 
The total budget amounted to $405,000, which is $5,000 more than last year. The budget is comprised of four parts: allocations, Student Union Board (SUB), Student Govern­ment, and the contingency fund. 
Allocations includes funds for clubs, Hall Presidents' Council, and the class governments and activities. Overall, allocations received more than $10,000 less than the 1992-93 school year budget. 
SUB, however, was given $10,000 more this year. SUB is responsible for An Tostal, the Collegiate Jazz Festival, and other special events. 
Student Government alloca­tio ns totaled nearly $1 ,000 more this year. Administrative costs were reduced in this area. 
In other business, the senate also unanimously approved the allocation of $8,000 from the profits of next year's Shirt pro­ject for a freshman orientation picnic. 
"We're pretty sure the Shirt will make $200,000," said Stu­dent Body Vice President Nikki Wellmann. "There's been a big 
P.R. problem as far as freshman orientation goes and we want something that's more organized. We want a picnic for the parents and the students when they come in." 

Other colleges spread pro-life messages, solutions 
Editor's note: The following is the second in a two-part series examining the changing role of the student pro-life movement. 

By ELISABETH HEARD 
News Writer 
As the abortion debate heats up across the nation, students at other universities are making an e!Tort to inform the public about pro-life beliefs and other options that are available to women with an unwanted pregnancy. 
At Loyola University, the group Pro-life Loyola University Students (PLUS) is dedicated to both education and service. 
"In the Centennial Forum Student Union there is a weekly information table were we dis­play pamphlets and information about crises pregnancies and abortion procedures, and also discuss the religious per­spective," said Quico Albert, president of PLUS. 
"We turn a lot of people away by showing pictures. We want to be there and give information to people who may not get it otherwise," Albert added. 
Unlike some members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right to Life, PLUS members do not participate in rescues. "We take a different approach," Albert said. "Our main goals are education and service. We do things like hold fundraisers to help to raise money for 

Developments 
in the 

Abortion Movement 
women care centers." 
PLUS has a mailing list of 200, with a core group of about 10 to 15 individuals. "It is about half men and half women," Albert said. "Of course the religious aspect is the underlying theme which brings us all together, but some people are more politically motivated." 
Michigan State takes a differ­ent approach than both Loyola and Notre Dame-it is very lib­eral and almost everyone there is pro-choice. In fact, a pro-life group was just started in Jan­uary. 
"Right now we are focusing on educating ourselves," said Jenny Ford, the president of the organization. "We are learning about adoption, IU (a new drug), and parental consent." 
Currently there are only 10 people in the group, but their hopes are high, according to Ford. 
"We want to work with crises pregnancy prevention, and we want to educate people about abortion and other op­tions," she said. 
Since Michigan State is an overwhelmingly pro-choice school, many pro-life students get involved in the local group, Right to Life of Michigan. This organization focuses on educa­tion and legislation. 
The group is currently working on the parental con­sent legislation which went into effect on March 31. This new law states that any minor under 18 must get consent before having an abortion. If this con­sent cannot be obtained, the minor may go before a judge to get a waver, but there must be an adult present, preferably a relative. 
The Right to Life group of Michigan is pushing to have this law amended, adding informed consent, which would force the clinics to provide their patients with all of the information prior to an abortion. This information would include showing pictures and stating side effects. 
This organization is unique to others that students can get in­volved in because it deals pri­marily with legislation. A sec­retary working at the office said that they do not believe in vio­lence, and don't condone vio­lence for violence. 
This trend towards education of the public continues a:t Ge­orgetown University. 
"Our focus this year is educa­tional. We distribute informa­tion packets which contain stats and facts," said Maggie Re­ichard, last year's president of the Georgetown pro-life group. 
But the group does work heavily on the community ser­vice aspect. "We act as a liason between pro-life groups," Re­ichard said. "Different groups come to Georgetown to recruit and give talks." 
So far, people from a preg­nancy crises center, a post abortion crises center, a Span­ish speaking center and a home for new and expectant mothers have all spoken at Georgetown's campus about what they do and how they benefit the community. After the talks, students are welcomed to sign up to volunteer at any of the centers. 
The pro-life students at Ge­orgetown are also involved in protests. "We protested Sarah Weddington when she came to campus to speak," Reichard said. "She was the attorney who argued for abortion rights in the 1973 Roe vs. Wade case." 
Part of their protest included putting up pamphlets and posters. "We also asked a lot of pro-life questions during her speech," said Reichard. 
The march for life that occurs in Washington, D. C., every year is a very big event for this organization. "Last year we even had some Notre Dame students," Reichard said. 
But like Loyola students, they too shy away from rescues. "We don't do any type of ac­tivism," said Reichard. "We work on education on campus and community service." 
Georgetown nixes choice organization 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
News Writer 
As a Catholic university, it is common and even expected to find a pro-life group on George­town's campus. But a few years ago a group of students decided to form an unofficial student pro-choice organization. 
The pro-choice organization was unrecognized until two years ago when it received funding and became an official group recognized by George­town. 
The university was explicit in outlining the stipulations under which the organization was to operate, according to Maggie Reichard, last year's president of the university's pro-life group. 
"They were to exist to provide freedom of discussion on both sides of the issue, but they pushed too heavily on the abortion aspect," Reichard said. 
In addition, the university found that the group had vio­lated certain stipulations that were agreed upon from the be­ginning-including a ban against group members partic­ipating in any activist work and 
see CHOICE I page 4 


, 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Realities of the homogeneity of fun at ND/SMC 
Though the second­
ugliest fountain in Michiana isn't yet pumping, the Fieldhouse Mall is once again the most exciting place on the Notre Dame campus. 


Rolando de 
Someone erects the 

Aguiar
stage on the mall every 

Viewpoint Editor 
spring, beckoning Notre Dame and Saint Mary's musicians to hook up their 11mps and play to their fans. The sun is shining, the birds are finally singing and bands are playing in front of the Peace Memorial every day, to a small but devoted bunch of groupies. 
But that the Fieldhouse Mall, in the spring and early fall, is the only arena for our little scene to show itself ofT (without the restrictions of alcohol and cover charges) is what keeps Notre Dame far behind places much more fun. 
Another lack of diversity (as usual), this time in the realm of entertainment, plagues us. Notre Dame simply fails to offer fun for everyone. Intellectuals may complain about undergraduates' indifference to education, and sexually-driven radicals may whine about single-sex dorms and parietals. 
But a larger problem is this: the alternatives for fun on and around this campus are as limited as the housing options. If you don't want to drink Miller Genuine Draft as Meatloaf's "Paradise by the Dashboard Light" blares on a very new, very nice stereo, then Notre Dame is not where you want to entertain yourself. 
Imagine a Catholic University (which sustains an elegant balance between Catholic and non­Catholic faculty) at which all students could enjoy themselves. Weekday nights would not be spent sitting around watching television, spreading thin the sizable dollop o entertainment that every college student needs. Instead, students would work all week on their studies or their art or whatever nourished them, knowing that the weekend would be their time for fun. 
But today. at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, that scenario is not possible. Students who enjoy listening to poetry have to wait for an occasional reading. They have to peel their eyes and harvest their earwax, and wait patiently for any notice of a touring poet. Students who want to see dance or drama get an occasional helping of a play. But real connoisseurs of the stage are not snakes; they need heaping plates prepared frequently. 
Dalloway's, the coffeehouse at Saint Mary's, has made serious strides to offer alternative nighttime entertainment to the students o ND/SMC. Throughout the winter, the Little Coffeehouse That Could booked campus bands to play on cold South Bend nights. And in a strange cosmic coincidence, the rock opera Frogboy played there last Sunday, punctuating the same week that saw the Who's Tommy debut on Broadway. 
But whether it•s showcasing Frogboy, the irreverent music of Bother, the Sister Chain's ceo-conscious folk or the genre-defining sound of Chisel, Dalloway's is doing something that many others on this campus need to do. 
Offer something different. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff Sports News Jen Marten Bevin Kovalik Business Jason Williams John Connorton Production Gerrie Hamilton Kira Hutchinson Susan Marx Ronald Veldman Accent Graphics Gerrie Hamilton Chris Mullins Lisa Monaco 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
"""----·-~ 1.... A ........: ..... ~ n ........ 11.11 ...................: .. ..
---L..... -• ...... 
Tuesday, April 27, 1993The Observer 
FORECAST Partly sunny and 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 27. 
.=,: 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
fSS} En]

H L a 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
•NICOSIA, 
Cyprus -Iraqi President · Saddam Hussein attended a military parade in Baghdad on Monday marking his 56th birthday, the Iraqi News Agency reported. All the armed forces participated in the event, named the "Mother of all Battles Parade" to commemorate the 1991 Persian Gulf War. Mother of All Battles is Baghdad's name for the war in which Iraqi troops were driven out of Kuwait, ending their seven-month occupation. Although Iraq has acknowledged it was defeated militarily, it claims to have won a moral victory by facing the U.S.-led coalition of more than 30 countries. The news agency, monitored in Nicosia, said the parade reaffirmed that "our valiant armed forces are the fighting and triumphing arm of the people and nation." 

•HARARE, 
Zimbabwe -Church leaders have urged the government to introduce laws controlling the sex lives of people suffering from the I-IIV virus. Legislation proposed by an ecumenical conference on AIDS last week would make it a crime for a person with the HIV virus or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome to have sex without informing the partner or securing consent. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS, which is fatal. Zimbabwe Health Minister Timothy Stamps and AIDS counseling groups have often said they oppose specific laws against HIV victims for fear it would discourage carriers from seeking care and accelerate its spread. The church leaders said they believed legislation would prevent AIDS from 



OF INTEREST 
•Career 
& Placement Services will be set up in the Hesburgh Library Concourse today and tomorrow to col­lect our "Future Plans Survey" forms that were sent to you earlier this semester. They will be in the concourse from 10 a.m. to noon each day. 

•PI 
Sigma Alpha will collect unused pens, pencils and paper for Project Passagon to send to a school in Benin, West Africa. Collection boxes are located in dorms, 314 O'Shaughnessy and Decio starting today and continuing through May 7. Call Julie at 4-3719 with any questions. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING April26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
281,108,100 
UNCHANGED 610 
DOWN 
1260 
-1.94 to 239.91 
S&P COMPOSITE -3.49 to 433.54 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -15.40 to 3398.37 
GOLD +$0.50 to $340.00/oz 
~TTVPR 
warmer Tuesday with 
40s 
highs in the upper 60s. Cloudy and cooler Wednesday with a 50 percent chance of thunderstorms. Highs in the mid 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 55 34 Atlanta 72 59 Bogota 72 54 Cairo 79 57 Chicago 47 36 Cleveland 44 37 Dallas 80 53 Detroit 52 39 Indianapolis 62 49 Jerusalem 61 48 London 55 48 Los Angeles 82 61 Madrid 61 41 Minneapolis 57 36 Moscow 66 46 Nashville 89 46 New York 70 48 Paris 64 50 Philadelphia 71 52 Rome 66 48 

© 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Seattle 52 46 South Bend 67 43 Tokyo 66 52 Washington D.C. 67 50 
~

0 fxxx1 81t 

FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
becoming more widespread, especially among girls and women. 
NATIONAL 


•GARY, Ind. -A rich and famous homeless man appeared in Lake County court Monday to face charges o vagranc:,.o and public drunkenness. He pleaded his case as only he can, then was bailed out by a Harvard student. It was Joe Pesci, but the actor wasn't down on his luck. He was shooting scenes for an upcoming movie, "With Honors." The college kid was Brendan Frasher, one o several co-stars. Pesci and his co-stars aren't the only Hollywood hot-shots with an eye on northwest Indiana. Pesci and an entourage of about 70 people started filming on the steps to Gary's City Hall about 6 a.m. Monday. "Gary is not all what people think," she said. 
•B 
STON -A cancerous growth was removed Monday from Mayor Raymond Flynn's left hand, and his doctor said it should not affect his ability to serve as U.S. ambassador to the Vatican. "We caught this early. The mayor is going to do very, very well," said Dr. Howard Koh. The 53-year-old mayor was woozy but upbeat after the hourlong operation at Boston University Medical Center. He said the melanoma was discovered during an examination he took three weeks ago after President Clinton tapped him to be ambassador to the Vatican. The three-term mayor still awaits Senate confirmation. More than 27,000 people in the United States have melanoma, and it causes 6,000 deaths per year, the World Health Organization says. It is curable if caught early, but there is no cure for the advanced forms of the disease. 

•Mayor 
Joseph Kernan (D-South Bend) will address the entire student body today at 4 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Mayor Kernan will discuss all the aspects of city/state government in a question and answer session. All are welcome to attend. Questions? Call Joanna of the Entrepreneur Club at 4-3595. 

•Memorial 
Mass for Kate Walsh. will be held this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. at the Regina Chapel of Saint Mary's College. Reception will follow. 



ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1509: Pope Julius II excommunicated the Italian state o Venice. 

• 
In 1865: The steamer "Sultana" exploded on the Mississippi River near Memphis, killing more than 1,400 Union prisoners o war. 

• 
In 1937: The ;nation's first Social Security checks were dis­tributed. 

• 
In 1982: The trial of John Hinckley Jr., who shot President Reagan, began in Washington. 

• 
Ten Years Ago: In an exchange between the U.S. and the Soviet Union, five political and religious dissidents were released 





Tuesday, April 27, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Students participate in civil rights march Debate team 
By JASON WILLIAMS civil rights marchers in the Assistant News Editor 1993 March on Washington for 
Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Equal Rights and Liberation. students joined over one million Ten members of Gays and 

Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) marched, carried banners and shouted slogans in the streets and on the malls in Washington on Sunday, according to Erik Floan, co-chair of GLND/SMC. 
"It was like one big fantastic family reunion," he said. "It was like possibility versus real­ity-everywhere we went there was this feeling of welcoming and friendship." 
Floan said other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty joined their group as they marched down Pennsyl­vania Avenue. He said he was overwhelmed by the amount of support bystanders shouted at them and was impressed with the "literally hundreds of alumni" who approached them. 
"People we're very support­ive," said Kelly Smith, a GLND/SMC member and Washington marcher. "They were cheering us-they had no idea that our school had a stu­dent alliance." 
Floan said many colleges were well represented at the march with banners and large student groups. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty, stu­dents and alumni joined other students from Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges at a reception prior to the march Friday night. 
"The big chant among student groups was 'We're here, we're queer and our parents think we're studying," Floan said. 
A church service was held Saturday at Washington Na­tiona) Cathedral in honor of the marchers. Floan said the eighth of a mile long cathedral was filled to capacity with people filling standing space as well. 
"The service at Washington National Cathedral was really the high point of the experience for me," he said. 
"The hymns, scriptures and readings took on an entirely new meaning in a nearly all gay and lesbian congregation of worshipers," Floan said. "The most amazing moment came before the sharing of the peace when the priest asked everyone to stand and look behind them, to the left, to the right, and in front of them and he said 'We are all here-gays, lesbians, bisexuals and straight; we all have a place in God's kingdom, we all are a part of his creation." 
Floan said the congregation broke into tears and everyone began hugging each other upon the conclusion of the service. 
Smith said the atmosphere of the entire weekend made her feel like she.was not in the mi­nority for once. 
"I was just so impressed by the numbers and diversity of the people who were there," she said. "I felt connected to everybody there because we were all there for the same purpose." 
Contributions to this story were made by Katie Murphy. 
leaves mark nationwide 
By BETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
When thinking of great duos, the names Bert and Ernie, . Batman and Robin, and Clinton and Gore may come to mind, but most students are unaware that Notre Dame has its own amazing pair: Faye Kolly and Val Renegar, ~he debating duo who led Notre Dame to the final rounds of the national debate competition this season. 
Senior Renega~ and her partner sophomore Kolly, rep­resented Notre Dame's debate team in 15 tournaments across the country this year. Not only were they ranked 32nd in the nation, but they also won eight team awards and Renegar pulled in two individual speaker awards, surpassing all previous Notre Dame debate teams. 
Renegar, a four year debating veteran, was pleasantly surprised by her partner's ability to catch on so quickly. Kolly began at ground level and was being recognized on the national level by December. 
"Faye advanced incredibly quickly," Renegar said. "I couldn't be prouder of her." 
"In the beginning I was frus­trated, more than I expected," Kolly said, "but there was sub­stantial improvement from tournament to tournament." 
The improvement was not gained without hard work and dedication. The duo put in anywhere between 20-30 hours per week researching and debating the pros and cons of the United Nations' role in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
"We became well versed on both sides of the issue," Rene­gar said. "I lose my opinion from time to time." 
Not only were they forced to take all of their classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays in order to have Mondays and Fridays free for travel, but they also gave up the normal social life at Notre Dame for a year on the road. 
"Our friends became the people from across the country that we saw on the weekends," Renegar said. "Not the people in our classes or in our dorms." 
Although the team was pleased with its results, it felt that the year could have been even more successful if it had greater funds and a stronger following from the University. 
"Debate is an excellent aca­demic activity and deserves as much attention as any other extra-curricular activity," Kolly said. "The support needs to start with the administration." 
Many of the larger and more powerful debate teams are able to send four or five teams to each meet, according to Coach Tim Mahoney. 
"Sending only one team is a bad reflection on the Univer­sity," she added, 
The duo encourages anyone that enjoyed the Iceberg De­bates to try their hand at debating seriously. 
"It is the best educational ac­tivity to do to prepare for classes and a future career," Renegar said. 


CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
Local weekly paper looking for ~ 
someone to join the editorial ~r;i' department to write sports and learn all aspects of newspaper a I business. Computer, writing and ~A 
photography experience helpful. '~ .~-? 
"I am very proud of their ac­complishments," Mahoney said. "Not only because of the success, but also because of the hard work." 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, April27, 1993 


Arnold lands 
spot on 
. . 


comm1ss1on 
By ANDY RUNKLE 
News Writer 
Kitty Arnold, the director o Career and Placement Service, has recently been elected to serve a three-year term on the Board of Governors of the Col­lege Placement Council (CPC). 
Arnold becomes the first woman to represent the Mid­west region on the CPC Gover­nors board. ller placement is "a representation that the pro­fession has changed dramati­cally. There are simply more women in the career planning field," according to Arnold. 
The Board of Governors is the policy-making entity for the entire CPC organization, said Arnold. The Board of Gover­nors has two formal meetings each year to set policy for the CPC, she said. 
As a governor of the council, Arnold will be appointed to lead a subcommittee which will meet to address specific prob­lems, she said. 
This council is a national as­sociation composed of "two constituents," the college ca­reer placement specialists and corporate college relations rep­resentatives. "We come to­gether to try and serve the stu­dents better in the recruitment employment process," she said. 
Arnold will serve as one o seven representatives on the CPC from colleges and univer­sities. She will take office July 1. 
Arnold has served at the Uni­versity as director of Career and Placement Service since 1983. This office provides stu­dents with job placement and counseling services 
Arnold previously served as assistant director of the Career Center at Indiana University at Bloomington and the director of career and placement ser­vices at Indiana University at South Bend. 


Two leprechauns will battle Irish foes 

By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 
For the first time ever, Notre Dame will have two leprechaun mascots next year. 
Although both mascots will not be seen at the same time, the two will work together in order to have the support of the leprechaun at as many athletic events as possible. 
The leprechaun mascot serves to promote school spirit and to publicize Notre Dame sports according to Andy Budzinski, varsity leprechaun, and Jamie Glover, extended varsity leprechaun for the 1993-94 school year. 
Budzinski will be present at all football and men's basket­ball games as well as pep ral­lies; Glover will make appear­ances at many campus "Olympic" sports except for men's basketball and football. 
Since the time demand for the leprechaun is so great, the athletic department decided that in order to make the mas­cot visible at more events, two leprechauns would be needed. 
Aside from appearances at athletic events, the leprechaun also makes appearances at lo­cal elementary schools and hospitals and delivers motiva­tional speeches. 
It is a good idea to split up public appearance duties ac­cording to the mascots because it allows for more attention to be given to sports other than football and basketball. 
After his first appearance last weekend at the Blue-Gold game, Budzinski said, "I was really nervous, especially about having a brown beard and hair rather than red, but 

Code 
continued from page 1 
family at Notre Dame," she added. 
Prior to approving the code, the Academic Council evaluated opinion surveys of all faculty members and a computer generated sampling of students, which the Social Science Training and Research Lab administered last year. 
The biggest reason for the code is to overcome the "we/they mentality of faculty versus the students, and to transform it into more of a col­league/ junior colleague rela­tionship," he said. 
The Observer/ T.J. Harris Sophomores Jamie Glover and Andy Budzinski (left to right), the 1993-94 varsity leprechaun mascots, pose in front of the Hesburgh Library. For the first time at Notre Dame both men will serve as dual mascots. 
Harvard comic set to replace Letterman 
NEW YORK (AP) -NBC said it would announce David Let­terman's successor on the "Tonight" show Monday night, and all signs pointed to Conan O'Brien, a little-known writer­comedian, as heir to the "Late Night" throne. 
The announcement would be made by "Tonight" host Jay Leno, and the host-designate would appear with him, the network said. 
O'Brien, 28, is a 1985 grad-

continued from page 1 
against using the Georgetown name on any pro-choice T­shirts. 
After a year the group was dissolved, Some students formulated a cannon law suit to propose to the Catholic Church that Georgetown was not a Catholic university because they recognized the pro-choice group. 
"It (the suit) never really took off," Reichard said. "But it was a very big deal on this cam­pus." 

The Castle & Co. Is Your 
NEW WOLF TANNING CENTER 
featuring: 
• 
New Wolf Tanning Beds 

• 
Facial Tanners 


• 
Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 


I


272-0312 
•Minutes from campus 
I 

uate of Harvard University, where he was twice president of the Harvard Lampoon magazine, the nation's leading undergraduate comedy school. His graduate course was the San Francisco-based Groundlings comedy troupe, training in sketch comedy and improvisation. 
O'Brien was a writer for HBO's "Not Necessarily the News" before his five-year stint at "Saturday Night Live," where 
Mama 
he shared a writing Emmy and occasionally appeared as a sketch player. 
For the past two years, he has been a writer-producer at Fox's hit animated sitcom "The Simpsons." 
O'Brien was a leading con­tender among the young co­medians vying for the "Late Night" job and had a run­through audition on the set of "Tonight" in the Burbank stu­dios two weeks ago. 

Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
Every Wcdn~sdi.ly il's Mami.l Mw-riott':-; 
!Utliun Buffet in the Looking Glass R.:stauranl. A "btton gtt.l'lo'' array of antipusta, mim:stronc, fcttut:dnc, (.;:.t!zonc, lasagnu, pasta with four sauces, cheese, breads anu desserts. It's all served up in a rcstivt: Italian atmosphere-ehockcrcd table dolh!:i, -the works. 
Every Wednesday 5:00p.m. · 10:00 p.m. All you can t!at for$ 11.95 Childn:n under 12 $5.75 
Reservations appreciated. 
Each Adult's Wednesday Night Mama Marriotltalian BufTct Purchased Between 5:00p.m. -7:00p.m. 
This otTer applies to students and employees of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
Not Valid With Any Uthnr Discount Offer Expires 611/93 
SOUTH BEND;\\Qrriott!i
The Castle 1 
State Rd. 23 & Ironwood, Suite A L 
123 N. Sl. JO#g!l Sr.. Soulh ilcnd !219) 234-2000
~C~Io~s~e~d~M~o~n~d~_______P_I__~o_f_P_a_r_ki_n~--------~--=--.J
--Cuor>vrl --­



~. ---~--~--­

page 6 The Observer Tuesday, April 27, 1993 


Excavators unearth burial ground 
GIZA PlATEAU, Egypt (AP)­Egyptian excavators digging in two ancient cemeteries have discovered an archaeological bonanza buried within sight of the Giza Pyramids. 
Finds include several painted statues -one an extraordinary depiction of a father and his two young children -intricate tombs and decorated limestone tablets. 
There's even a chilling, and evidently successful, curse to frighten away would-be tomb robbers. 
The discoveries came to light over the past six months, dur­ing digging in graveyards where upper-and middle-class officials were buried during the era of Giza's pyramid-building pharaohs. 4,600 years ago. 
They're remarkable not only for their beauty but because they yield insights into Egyp­tian society during the time of the early pharaohs. 
"It just shows how much is out there to be discovered," said Zahi Hawass, the antiqui­ties official who headed the Giza excavations. Hawass is currently lecturing on the finds in Philadelphia and other U.S. and Canadian cities. 
Egypt has yet to announce the finds officially, and the ex­cavations have been temporar­ily shut down. An announce­ment was planned months ago as part of a campaign to counter tourism losses from Islamic extremist attacks. 
The extremists seek to un­dermine Egypt's secular gov­ernment, which depends heav­ily on tourism revenue. About 140 people have died in attacks and police retaliation over the past 15 months, and both the number of tourists and tourism revenues are believed to have dropped sharply. 
In the excavations, the most impressive discovery is a painted limestone statue of the high priest Kai. lie served all three pharaohs who built pyramids on Giza Plateau and was entombed among upper­class pharaonic officials. 
The cemetery that includes Kai's tomb, called the Western Cemetery, is commonly called the dwarves' cemetery because many high pharaonic officials were dwarves or handicapped. They were believed to have magical powers. 
Almost two feet high, the· statue shows a muscular and majestic Kai, who was normal size, seated on a throne with a son and a daughter clinging to his legs. The colors are as fresh as if painted yesterday. 
The faces of the children are natural and detailed. The boy has puffy cheeks and big ears and sticks two fingers in his mouth, and the demure little girl has short black hair and wide eyes. 
"A masterpiece," said llawass. "Without parallel in ancient Egyptian art." 
In a separate middle-class cemetery about three miles away, four limestone statues depict a pharaonic foreman. She-dou. A fifth, of wood, had disintegrated. 
Excavators found the painted statues when they aimed a light into a secret compartment in the back of a tomb. 
Costa Rican court justices held hostage 
SAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) ­Four gunmen barged into the Costa Rican Supreme Court on Monday and took 19 of the 22 ~ustices hostage, officials said. 
The gunmen, who called themselves members of "The Commando of Death," entered the four-story building through a basement entrance, said Jose Gerardo Gonzalez. an Interior Ministry spokesman. 
About four hours after they seiZed the building, the gunmen asked authorities not to cut off power, water or telephone lines. and demanded a radio and 1J. television. Their demands were granted. 
But Foreign Minister Bernd Neuhaus told reporters "we still don't know what their purpose is." He gave no further details. 
There was widespread spec­ulation that the gunmen were members of Colombia's Medellin cocaine cartel. and were trying to rescue four jailed colleagues. 
President Rafael Angel Calderon called an emergency meeting of his Cabinet to dis­cuss what action to take. 
Dozens of police armed with assault rifles surrounded the building, while people caught inside were seen fleeing. Gon­zalez said the judges were be­ing held on the second floor. 
"The situation is very critical. We believe it involved kidnap­ping." Gonzalez said. 

Congresswoman Nury Ho­driguez of the governing Social Christian Unity, and several other legislators, said "The Commando of Death" is part of the Medellin cartel. Investiga­tors on the scene insisted they did not know the gunmens' nationality. 
Among the four alleged Medellin members awaiting trial in Costa Rica are Carlos Hurquijo, the cartel treasurer, and Armando Mola. another cartel official, according to Ra­dio Monumental. 
Hafael Brenes. deputy director of the judicial police. told reporters there were four gunmen. He said two of the judges held hostage were women, but did not have their 
names. 
Unlike its Central American neighbors. Costa Hica has been free of rebel or political vio­lence. Costa Hica has a Civil Guard but no standing army. 
But outbreaks of violence do occur. usually involving leftist and other political groups from neighboring countries. 
The most recent incident oc­curred on March 8, when a group of opponents to Nicaraguan President Violeta Chamorro invaded that coun­try's embassy in San Jose in March and held 24 people hostage for two weeks. 

Chernobyl tragedy remembered with service 
KIEV. Ukraine (AP) -Hun­dreds of people in Kiev and Moscow mourned victims of the Chernobyl nuclear accident at services Monday marking the seventh anniversary of what Hussia's prime minister called "a black day for us." 
President Leonid Kravchuk of Ukraine led a memorial service for victims of the world's worst nuclear accident in Kiev, the capital. A tribute also was held at a cemetery in Moscow, where several people toasted their loved ones with a shot of vodka afterward. 
"We must take responsibility for our decisions, and we should be responsible for our people, for nature, for our land," Kravchuk said at the Chernobyl Memorial Museum. 
"People have come to un­derstand ... that mankind's re­sponsibility for atomic power should be much greater," the Ukrainian leader told the crowd of 500 people, including some resettled from the Chernobyl area. 
An explosion and fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, 80 miles nor;th of Kiev, began spewing radiation across Eu­rope on April 26, 1986. 
Soviet officials said 32 people were killed, mostly firefighters. But some Ukrainian and West­ern scientists believe the actual toll from cancer and related ill­nesses could be in the thou­sands. 
More than 25,000 people were evacuated immediately. and more than 180,000 eventually were resettled. 
At Mitinskoye Cemetery in Moscow, a military band played funeral dirges, and grieving family members lay roses, tulips and carnations on black 

granite slabs where 27 victims r-------=~-----~~-----------. 
were buried. Above them loomed an unfin­
ished memorial, a stark bronze figure of a man with out­stretched arms pocked by holes 

Unusual Summer Job On Campus 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employment from May through September to install, operate, maintain1 and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is ideal for technically­minded science/engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork and requires a valid driver's license. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 3!!!. 
FREE 
IN-UNE SKATING CUNIC 
WHEN: WEDNESDAY APRIL 28 FROM 4:30 TO 6:30 P.M. WHERE: PARKING LOT SOUTH OF THE JACC WHY: TO TEACH FIRST·TIMERS AND BEGINNERS HOW TO SKATE 
AVAILABILITY IS LIMITED SO SIGN-UP EARLY IN THE REC·SPORTS OFFICE. 
ALL EQUIPMENT IS PROVIDED. 
as if something were eating away at him. He was framed by a gray, concrete mushroom cloud. 
"This is a black day for us." Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin said. "This day will always live in our memory." 
But Larissa Perchuka, 39, said the government officials' speeches did nothing to make up for the loss of her husband, Oleg. , "You see how far away I am standing from them -that's what I think of these leaders and their speeches," Perchuka said. 
She said her husband, a technician at the plant, was in­jured in the explosion at Ileac­tor No. 4 and died 25 days later from radiation sickness. 
Dozens of family members stayed after the service for a picnic of bread, pickles and vodka. 
"Never again!" said a white­haired man, lifting his glass and leading the others in a toast. 
The World Health Organiza­tion said Sunday that cases of children's thyroid cancer in the contaminated area had risen dramatically since the accident. The children are the first whose cancer can be linked directly to the nuclear fallout, said Nikolai Napalkov, assistant director­general at the U.N. agency. 
Children in some areas are still eating food grown on land contaminated by the accident, Hussian television reported. 
e 

b
IDCU us 
the campus cd is on sale at the Iafortune information desk Cost: $8 
get yours now! 
sponsored by SUB 
HAPPY 
21ST BIRTHDAY 

LYMAN 
"BILL" 
WHITLATCH 
LOVE MOM, DAD, LYNN & DAN 


Special to The Observer 
Greg Crowley, a senior me­chanical engineering major from Columbus, Ohio, was pre­sented the Outstanding Student Award by the Minority Engi­neering Program (MEP) April 15, during MEP's annual recognition and awards ban­quet. 
The award, considered MEP's highest honor, recognized Crowley for "his enthusiastic support of the program and for creating opportunities for his peers." 

Also honored during the banquet were Erica Reinhart, a junior chemical engineering major from Elkhart, Ind., and Yolanda Turner, a junior me­chanical engineering major from Chicago,Ill., who received extraordinary perserverance awards; Anthony Yang, a senior aerospace engineering and anthropology major from Columbus, Ohio, and Thao Doan, a junior mechanical engineering major from Tumwater, Wash., who received 


Make It Easy With Ryder. 
OFF 
One-Way Rental 
OFF 
Local Rental 

outstanding academic performance awards; and Latauna Mead, a senior chemi­cal engineering major from Chicago, Ill.. and Mark Campos, a senior mechanical engi­neering major, who received most improved academic awards. Additional awards were granted to sophomore ar­chitecture students Uyen Tran from Kirkland, Wash., and LaTonya Whitfield from Waller, Texas. 
MEP students once again voted to award the outstanding faculty award to Terrence Akai, assistant dean and associate professor of computer science and engineering, "for his ex­ceptional teaching." Other fac­ulty members honored for "concern and initiative in assist­ing students" included Stuart McComas, associate chairman of mechanical engineering and professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering; Michael Stanisic and Joseph Powers, both assistant professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering; and Jay Brock-
Now you can take all your stuff home without overstuffing it. Just rent a Ryder truck and it's easy. 
Ryder trucks have plenty of cargo space, so they're easy to load. And with power steering, air conditioning, and AM/FM stereos, they're fun to drive. There's even a Ryder d.ealer close to campus, so choosing the right truck and getting all the help you need is easy too. 
Plus, Ryder makes it easy to save money with special discounts just for students. So stop cramming and start saving. Call your local Ryder dealer today and take the easy way out. 
START SAVING. 
Take this coupon to your authorized Ryder dealer. It entitles you to a $25 discount on a One Way Rental or a $10 discount on a Local Rental. 
Di!.>count \alid through December 31. 1994. Offer not Yalid with any other offer. rebate or discount program. \"oid wht>rf' prohibited. Limit 1 coupon per rental. Current !'tudent I.D. required. 
• 
l 
. Cit...
·' 
Ryder Truck Rental 2715 North Bendix Drive 277-3550 
Jack's Trailer Sales 51370 US 33 North 272-1669 
Cira 's Marathon 1914 South Miami 289-6721 
Burns Creative Party 332 West Mishawaka 259-7472 
We're there when you need us.SM 


------------~-~----------------~ 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, April 27, 1993 

I , 

ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. 
Thanks our 1993 Bookstore Basketball Championship Teams 
Tequila White Anthony Travel 
Lightning Sara Liebscher ­
Ms. Bookstore 
Shannon Cullinan ­
Sandy Botharri ­
Mr. Bookstore 
Tournament MVP 
Mike MacKinnon 
Muffet McGraw Brian Ratigan 
Trish HugKen McKinney 
Sue Wassil Eric Jones 
Anthony Travel is honored to be associated·with such outstanding people. 
Anthony Travel Inc. LaFortune Student Center 631-7089 

Tuesday, April27, 1993 The Observer page 9 
pace shuttle blasts off after months of delay 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Columbia's astronauts pow­ered up their laboratory and got down to work after the shuttle roared into orbit Mon­day on a German science mis­sion that had been plagued for months by delays. 
It was the mission's third launch attempt in five weeks. "It finally worked!" said an elated Reinhard Fiege, a Ger­man government research of­ficial who watched from Kennedy Space Center. 
Payload commander Jerry Ross, one of five Americans aboard, was the first inside Spacelab, followed by German astronaut Ulrich Walter. They floated into the bus-sized labo­ratory module in the cargo bay from a tunnel connected to the cabin, and quickly began acti­vating experiments. 
Nearly all the medical, biolog­ical and other experiments will be conducted inside the labora­tory during the nine-day flight, which was ordered by Germany years ago. 
"I am enormously relieved that we had such a good start. Now we will wait for tremen­dous results," said German program director Heinz Stoewer, who also was at Kennedy for the launch. 
NASA's oldest shuttle rose from its seaside pad on time at 
10:50 a.m., piercing through thick clouds as it arced out over the Atlantic with seven astro­nauts. 
By launching nine days after Discovery returned from orbit, NASA broke by one day the 1985 record for the shortest in­terval between U.S. human space flights. 
"We all thoroughly enjoyed the ascent," shuttle commander Steven Nagel said after Columbia reached a 184-mile­high orbit. 
Minutes before liftoff, launch director Bob Sieck wished the two German astronauts a good flight in their language: "Einen guten Flug." 
And there was this congratu­latory message from German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, read to the crew in German and English 3 1/2 hours into the flight by German mission man­ager Hauke Dodeck: "After the long years of intense prepara­tions and the recent delays to the launch, you must be very pleased to commence your work in orbit." 
The first countdown for the mission ended with an engine shutdown three seconds before liftoff last month because of a debris-clogged valve. A faulty navigation unit ruined the sec­ond launch attempt, on Satur­day. 
The mission was delayed ear­lier in the year by other shuttle trouble, principally a ruptured hydraulic hose and an equip­ment mix-up that required the replacement of three engine pumps. 
"Columbia always seems to be a tough one to get off the pad," Sieck said. "But age doesn't seem to be a factor. It just kind of works out that way." 
HAppy 21ST 
BiRT~dAy 
·5TAS 
lovE, MoM, DAd, WAh, ANd MARGARET 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
TilE NOTRE DAME OPERA WORKSHOP PRESENTS 

6s !Rmrs ~uruU 
EJarrs fjriu, 'Director 
Monday and Tuesday April 26 and 27, 1993 8:00p.m. 
• 

Washington Hall 
Tickets: L11Fortunc Student Center Box Office $5-Adults, $2-Students/Senior Citizens Phone: 631-8128 
Polls show Clinton's shortcomings 
NEW YORK (AP) -As Presi­dent Clinton nears his 100th day in office, almost half of Americans in an Associated Press poll say he already has broken promises too often. But about the same number con­sider him a strong leader. 
The leadership measure could 
. be crucial for a president trying to push an agenda of change after winning only 43 percent of the vote in November. Those polled regard Clinton as a strong leader 49 percent to 37 percent, with the rest unsure. More Americans than not say Clinton has set the right tone for his administration, by 44 percent to 40 percent. But 48 percent say he already has broken his promises too often, compared with 34 percent who say he has kept his promises up to this point. Clinton complained Sunday that it was "just not realistic" to expect that he could have moved on all his campaign commitments in his first 100 days. "That's why you get a four-year term, not a three­month term," he said. The poll indicates a quarter of those critical of broken promises still respect Clinton's leadership. People who voted for him are much less likely than others to fault him for breaking promises, but nearly a fourth are withholding judg­ment or have a mixed assess­ment, the poll found. The national telephone poll of 1,014 adults was taken April 16-20 by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa., part of AUS Consultants. Results have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Clinton was under harsh media scrutiny while the poll was taken, with Republicans in Congress having scuttled his 
Clinton's first 100 days 

Q 
I In these opening months in office, do you think I President Clinton has set 
the right tone for his administration or not? 

Q 
1 Do you think I President Clinton has accomplished: 
Just about what you expected him to accomplish: No answer: 3% 

$16.3 billion economic stimulus and the standoff with armed cultists in Texas ending in a fiery tragedy. But the poll asked respondents to take a broad view of Clinton's "opening months in office," 100 days as of Thursday. 
Most, 68 percent, say Clinton has accomplished about what they expected, 6 percent say more than they expected, 22 percent say less. Among the disappointed are 18 percent of Democrats and 18 percent of Clinton votets. 
Clinton gets higher marks for leadership among women in the poll than among men, possibly because of his push for spending on social programs that traditionally are more pop­ular with women than men. 

Happy Birthday "Bonch" 
The Road 
•
tpper 
APfWm. J. Castello 

Also, the president has taken favorable stands on controver­sial issues, such as abortion rights and homosexuals in the military, in which polls show more male than female opposi­tion. 
1\vo-thirds of those who said they voted for President Bush for re-election give thumbs down to Clinton's leadership. Ross Perot voters split about evenly in assessing Clinton. 
While 6 percent of voters refused to say how they cast ballots in November, those who did say seemed reluctant to ac­knowledge voting for the loser. Only 29 percent said they voted for Bush, who won 38 percent of the vote, and 17 percent said they backed Perot, who actually got 19 percent. 
Clarification 

A quotation in yesterday's Observer incompletely summarized the opinions o Right-to-Life Co-President Claire Johnson about the killing of Dr. David Gunn, an abortionist in Florida. "It is morally wrong to kill anyone deliberately,'~ she said in the story. "But you can build a good defense for the man who killed him." 
Although Johnson was accurately quoted, she said she does not subscribe to such a defense, which rests on modern American values. 
Do !·vou have the summer time 
S!?b.ool blues?? Ccme live at .!l3mington Court during' su.mmer school, and relax in luxury between ;Jla,sses. We have junior one beib·!XIms that will give the privacy 
o:fyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, orjust to relax. We have models open daily-come out 
and take a look! 
Located ou M.ain Street between McKjnley and Edison 
'--------------~·~---~~-------~-----~------~ 
.--.-,_---------~----------------~--------------------~--·---­
Business 
page 10 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
RJR cuts prices lo response to Phillip Morris 
•RALEIGH, N.C.-The R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. is planning to cut prices temporarily on its Winston and Camel brand cigarettes, matching Philip Morris' opening salvo in a budding price war. Reynolds will cut the price of Winstons by $4 a carton or 40 cents a pack nationwide for the month of June, said company spokeswoman Peggy Carter. The company also will offer two-for-one sales, price cuts or rebates on Camel cigarettes, with the type of promotion varying by market, she said. The decision by the Reynolds, based in Winston-Salem, follows an April 2 announcement by Phillip Morris USA that it will cut the price of its Marlboro cigarettes to better compete with increasingly popular discount brands. 
UAW determined to improve its lot 
•DETROIT -The United Auto Workers wants wage increases and better job security protection from Big Three automakers this summer, but will fight to keep current benefits, union President Owen Bieber said Monday. Battered and weakened in a dozen years of Hepublican presidential policies, the UAW sur­vived and is ready to fight if necessary, Bieber said. The election of President Clinton reduced anti-union fervor in the White Bouse. but the union is watching to see if Clinton will dellvflr on promises to sign legislation preventing companies from permanently replacing strikers and to rework the pending North American Free Trade Agreement. Delegates began debating a single 138-page resolution incorporating more than 600 proposals from locals around the country. A single vote for or against the resolution is scheduled Wednesday. 
Machinists grotest UTC layoffs 
Savv~ Indiana wine Peroducers increase sales 
•INDANAPOLIS-Saes of Indiana wine increased 15 percent in 1992, according to an industry group. The Indiana Grape Wine Council reported sales of 49,500 gallons. three times more than total number of gallons sold in 1991. Analysts attributed the increase to better marketing, increased tourism in the state and the opening of a new winery in northwestern Indiana last year, bringing the total number of wineries to 11. Wayne Morris, a wine consultant in Indianapolis, attributed the increased sales to Indiana wine producers becoming more savvy. "They are paying more attention to consumer demand and adjusting their product line to meet that demand," Morris said. The average price of a bottle of Indiana wine is about $6.95, the council said. 
Tuesday, April27, 1993 

Center named in honor of Higgins 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Business Writer 
The Notre Dame economics department's six-year-old cen­ter for research, teaching, dis­cussion, and publication on la­bor and its effects on the econ­omy was recently named in honor of labor scholar Mon­signor George Higgins. 
The inauguration of the Hig­gins Labor Research Center, which took place at the group's annual conference on April 17 and 18, honored a dedicated fighter for organized labor across the world, according to Charles Craypo, chairman of the department of economics. 
"He's (Higgins) one of a num­ber of priests who became well known for his work on behalf of labor organized labor," Craypo said. 
A participant and speaker at numerous international meet­ings, including the first congress of the Solidarity movement in Poland, !Iiggins has published numerous arti­cles in scholarly and popular journals, including a weekly syndicated column in the Catholic press. 

While Higgins has never held a position at Notre Dame, the members of the center wanted to acknowledge him for his na­tionally recognized work, ac­cording to Craypo. 
"Our center reflects the things he stands for and has worked for for the last 35 years," he said. 
The center, and its staff of Economics Department faeulty members, publishes papers throughout the year on differ­ent labor issues. An example of an upcoming project is an ex­amination of the post-war de­cline in the American standard of living, according to Craypo. 
Beyond the regular work of the center, this year's annual conference focused on the re­lationship between labor and law. One of the high points of the conference's meetings might have been the testimonial for Higgins, according to Craypo. 
"He was really very touched... I think he feels good about how this center is going to do research in ways that reflect the best of his career," Craypo said. 
In addition to honoring Higgins. the conference marked the changing focus of the research center. While in the past, faculty members have worked on projects individually, in the future, researchers will be able to work together in examining various aspects of labor. 
The new goals for the center also have bearing on the fund­ing of the research, according to Craypo. In the past, the center has operated off money from external grants and con­tributions. A new identity for the center might make it easier to get those grants, he said. 
"It gives us some identity ex­ternally... it makes things easier if you have an organiza­tional unit where you have a nucleus of faculty members," he said. 
The six year history of the center can be traced Notre Dame's working relationship with Professor Frank Wilkinson of Cambridge University. Wilkinson, a regular visitor and endowed chair at Notre Dame, visits yearly and participates in the center's conference and helps with the publication of a newsletter titled "International Contributions to Labor Studies." 

Saint Mary's students get fresh 'Wild Pizza' 
By KATIE CAPUTO 
Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
Although few take advantage of it, Saint Mary's students have the option to order pizza that is freshly made in the Haggar snack bar. "The Wild Pizza" is available for delivery seven days a week from 5 to 11 p.m. 
This opportunity originally started several years ago, ac­cording to Leon Miller, shift leader at the snack bar, but it did not really pick up business until approximately two years ago. At that time, the snack bar had seven student workers to help with the making and de­livering of pizzas, and was the popular choice for pizza among students. 
"When business first started, we used to deliver more pizzas 

IMF predicts lackluster global growth 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Lack­luster as it is, the U.S. economy will help lead world growth this year and next, the International Monetary Fund said Monday. 
"The recovery of global eco­nomic activity ... remains hesi­tant and uneven," the 175-na­tion lending organization said in its new World Economic Outlook. "The outlook remains unusually uncertain," it said. 
The lMF predicted just 2.2 percent growth in the world­wide economy this year, the third consecutive year of subpar growth. That was down sharply from the 3.1 percent projection offered in the last outlook released seven months ago. 
The world economy grew 1.8 percent in 1992 and just 0.6 percent in 1990. The IMF is looking for a relatively robust growth rate of 3.4 percent in 1994. 
This year, the United States, Canada and developing coun­tries in Asia and Latin America will fare better than the rest of the world, the lMF predicted. 
It foreeast growth of 3.2 per­cent in the United States and Canada and 5.1 percent in de­veloping countries. However, it said economic output would shrink 1.3 percent in Germany and advance just 1.3 percent in Japan. 
Countries formerly belonging to the Soviet Union will suffer a wrenching 11.8 percent con­traction in economic activity this year. 
In 1994, U.S. growth should hold at 3.2 percent while re­bounding to 1.7 percent in Germany and 3.5 percent in Japan. 
Despite the relative prosperity in the United States, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen warned separately in a speech to bankers Monday that the U.S. growth rate so far this year was not strong enough to bring the unemployment rate down. 
Growth in the gross domestic product, the sum of all goods and services produced in the United States, hit an annual rate of 4. 7 percent in the final three months of last year. The government is scheduled on Thursday to release its first quarter GDP report. In advance, many economists anticipate growth lapsed to between a 2 percent and 2.5 percent rate. . 
"I hopP ... that the economy in reality is stronger, and that the number is just a bump because of last month's East Coast storm," Bentsen told the Independent Bankers Associa­tion of America. He said a con­sistent U.S. growth rate of 3 percent is needed to reduce unemployment. 
Bentsen called on other coun­tries to stimulate their economies. 
"We can't pull the rest of the world by ourselves," he said. 
The IMF economic outlook was released in advance of a Thursday gathering of finance officials of the world's seven richest countries -the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy -and the annual meetings of the IMF and its sister lending organization, the World Bank. 
In pointed criticism, the IMF report said "the most pressing priority of econumic poli~y in the United States is the need to 
reduce  the  large  federal  
deficit."  
IMF  Hesearch  Director  

Michael Mussa dismissed Clin­ton's proposed stimulus pro­gram, blocked by Senate He­publicans, as "not sufficiently large to make a material im­pact' on the U.S. economy. 

on campus than any other pizza company,"Miller said. 
The pizzas U'ied to be made in the dining hall. but 'The Wild Pizza" process was recently moved to the snack bar. According to Miller, business died down after the move. 
Laura Drury, student man­ager of the snack bar, said that because business is moving so slowly, more advertising is needed to make students aware of this unique option. As a re­sult, flyers and signs were dis­tributed across campus. If sales were to pick up, more student workers would be needed, in­creasing the number of student jobs on campus, according to Drury. 
"We're hoping that 'The Wild Pizza' sales will pick up next year with the new pro­gram (the Carte Blanche meal hours) installed at the dining hall," said Drury. 
When students buy the pizza, they will help to increase the number of students needed for 3the operation, thereby helping another student through school, Miller said. 
"We would like students to support their own school if the products are good," Miller said. 
Students can purchase breadsticks and pop for delivery along with a pizza order, according. It takes about one hour for delivery to any dorm, and students can use either cash or munch money, said Drury. 
"The Wild Pizza" will be available through senior week, and will start up again next semester. Both Drury and Miller strongly encourage students to try it out. 

Chairman Gerstner deals with rising frustrations at IBM 
TAMPA. Fla. (API-Angry IBM shareholders on Monday unleashed a torrent of pent-up frustration at new Chairman Louis Gerstner Jr.. who promised to revive the com· puter maker but asked for pa­tience. 
In just his 18th workday at IBM, Gerstner tried to use the annual meeting to focus on a broad outline of goals. Instead, he heard impassioned calls by a dozen stockholders for the ouster of the board of directors that were greeted with loud applause. 
"If I were a director I would be embarrassed to even show up here and have my name on a list to be elected," said Dr. Gilbert Jannelli of Clearwater. "How can you work with that group of people when their attitudes, their trusted deci­sions caused this company's demise?" 
About 2,300 shareholders attended an unusually contentious meeting that re· Oected just how far Interna­tional Business Machines Corp. has fallen. 
The meeting capped a re­markable four months at 79­year-old IBM, whose founder's credo -"Think" -set a stan· dard of excellence for corporate America. In addition to hiring Gerstner as its first outsider chairman, IBM laid off workers for the first time and lost $285 million from January through March. 
IBM has lost more than $7 billion in the past two years, cut a quarter of its work force -or more than 100,000 jobs -since 1987, and lost significant market share amid growing competition. The company has sought to reverse itself through restructurings that have given IBM business units more freedom. 
Gerstner, the 51-year-old former RJR Nabisco chairman, took over on April 1 after a closely watched search for a successor to now-maligned former Chairman John Akers. 
In a frank assessment, Ger­stner said slow demand and poor economies had reshaped the computer industry, but he defended IBM's technological and market power. 


( 


~·~~~~~~~lr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
...... 
,..1---------;----------+----------r--------------------+----------r---------;----------·
WALL CABINET
WHILE-U-WAIT • 
i ...= 
SKIN SO SOFT 16 oz. 
EKCOTI> 

VACUUM · INCREDIBLE
HOOVER ~
• $j9!11 
MORE! 
BUBBLE BATH 24 oz. 
$39~ 

EYEGLASSES 
FRAMES ~49
S.V. LENSES '1, 
COMPLETE 

BRING YOUR PRESCRIPTION OR YOUR CURRENT GLASSES 
,.,,...,'11';;:.-.....c:::#'c:::. 

75 NEW &USED NINTENDO GAME TITLES
$12!JS·199; 
SUPER NES & GENESIS CARTRIDGES 
BRING IN YOUR USED 
!29JS
SUPER NE5 CARTRIDGE & GET 512 OFF ANY NEW CARTRIDGE 

NEW AND USED VIDEO GAMES & SYSTEMS BUY • SELL• TRADE 
TIRES P155180/R13 
"'~~1j99

BRIDGESTONE • LEMANS FIRESTONE • TRIUMPH &MUCHMORE! 
111 & 112 SAND IRONS
$1999 
~'"'" 
' 

"BAKER'S SECRET~ 
3FOR$j 
AMERI(:A'S FAVORITE NON-SnCK BAKEWARE 
SHARP DUAL 
CLEANERS \. ·.',.. SAVINGS! 
$39 ~~~'~ REGINA 
;RT DEVIL $'1:9 .;, $4EAM9ER 
UPRIGHT ;1, ' 
VACUUM 
CLEANERS ~~~~ -
CASSffiE PLAYER
$69 $692! 
KENWOOD 
60 WATTS PER CHANNEL AMP $89 HI POWER RADIO $99 ANTI-THEFT CD PLAYER $249 CAR SPEAKER $19.95 HOME 6+1 CD PLAYER WI REMOTE $149 100 WATT RECEIVER WISURROUND SOUND $179 
GREA'r OU'rDOORS 
TENTS • SLEEPING BAGS AcademyBroadway•Wentzet CAMPING ACCESSORIES WhiteStag•Wil~ernessTrail•
Cabela's • Amencan Camper & Gander Mountain 
SLEEPING $10
BAGS 
Screen ~:~:~ $3777 7'x7' $14
· Hiker Tents 
2-PERSQN $1 99 FREE GIFT WITH 
DOMES . TENT PURCHASE!
9 
llll-91 

$1495 
WAS ,.
:::r 

Shadow Boxes c,;:..'no$ 
ll•M1 $10 H~q
WAS __ / 
MAGAZINE RACKS 
z 

UM1 ,.c:z
$149$ 
WAS 
r­
,en 

PADDED SIDES 
$17/P?,l 
MATTRESS$997 WATERBED$2477 
PADS SHEETS 
WATERBEDS • MATTRESSES •SHEETS • ACCESSORIES & MORE! 
Pioneer•Kenwood•Aipine ~'(),~RockfordFosgate•.!VC•MT%" nPP Onkyo•Pyle &MuchMore! u.r.r 
1,ODDs of MOVIES 
$;99 
CASSETIE $7.99 CD $10.99 

mattressAwarehouse
\050 STORE BUYING POWt:R 
MATTRESSES $29EACH 
& DAYBEDS FA" 
BUNK 
BEDS 

--~97 
HEADBOARDS 
~ww!29; /i~ 
.,c: 
m
:a 
,.en 
r­
m 
......• 
= 
= 
en \II = 
= 
-n 
,.m 
:a 
~
,.
-
z 
en
·­
......• 
...= 
:::r
,. 
z 
z 
c: 
:1:1 
r­
., en 
c: m
:a 
• 
en r­
m 

r-----~-~-----~--~-~~--------­
~­
( 

Viewpoint ,. 
page 12 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ••••••••. Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Editor .•.... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor •••••••••••George Dohrmann Production Manager ....••••••.Kathy Fang Accent Edltor.....•....•••••. Kenya Johnson Systems Manager •.•••••.••...Patrick Barth Photo Editor ••••••.••...•..•....... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views ol the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631·8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
\ 
Tuesday, April 27, 1993 


Faculty composition crucial to university 
Majority of professors should be Catholic 
Dear Editor: it-the whole enterprise is 
My friend and colleague doomed; it simply won't hap­Michael Detlefsen (The pen. You can't be a Catholic or Observer, April 21) is right; Christian university from the Recommendation 1 of Colloquy top down. 2000 ("all who participate in For these very reasons I en­hiring faculty must be cog­dorse the intent if not the nizant of' and responsive to the wording of Hecommendation 1. need for dedicated and com­It isn't possible to have a mitted Catholics to predomi­Catholic or Christian university nate in number among the without having a majority of faculty") is indeed serious Catholic or Christian faculty business. members. (Maybe it's logically 
And perhaps President Malloy possible, but it is also logically should postpone making his possible to jump over the report to the board of trustr moon.) Having a Catholic ad­until there has been more op­ministration clearly won't do portunity for serious discussion the trick; what's needed is of this matter among faculty. broad and deep faculty com­For if faculty members don't mitment to the enterprise of endorse the project of building building a Christian university. and maintaining a Catholic or Alvin Plantinga Christian university-if they Professor of Philosophy
Catholic doctrine must be followed 
don't support and work at April 26, 1993 

Dear Editor: what are in fact the highly con­mitted Catholics. Vatican II 
My friend and colleague, testable findings of recent soci­taught us in Lumen gentium Professor Michael Detlefsen, ological and historical discus­(25) that judgments made by questions the claim made by the sions of secularization. the Pope "are to be sincerely Colloquy for the Year 2000 But Catholics have to re­adhered to," whenever his mind Committee on Academic Life member that for them the norm and will is evident. that there is a need for dedi­for Catholic universities in this So neither the views of the cated and committed Catholics respect has already been laid Committee on Academic Life to predominate in number on down in the Apostolic nor those of the Faculty Senate the Notre Dame faculty (The Constitution on Catholic Uni­can be of primary importance. Observer, April 21). versities of August 1990, Ex To suggest otherwise would be 
The need to be thus met, I corde ecclesiae, II, 4, 4: "In to imply that this University is take it, is this University's need order not to endanger the free to ignore both Ex corde to maintain and to strengthen Catholic identity of the univer­ecclesiae and Lumen gentium, its Catholic identity. Professor sity... the number of non­that is, that it has already lost Detlefsen seems to believe that Catholic teachers should not be its Catholic identity. whether this claim concerning a allowed to constitute a majority Alasdair Macintyre need for numerical predomi­within the institution ... " Professor of Philosophy nance is to be considered justi­And elsewhere it is made April 26, 1993 fied or not is something to be clear that the Catholic teachers settled only by debate about are to be dedicated and com-
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

H&Y, THAT'S NOTAL-L.

(AJ{;U., !<JCVO, NONSCN::C! 
Y()()'R£ 60-I DO. I AL.SO IAJORJ< AT MY
TOC¥J.YIS"TAK£ {Xjf< r:¥HI.il-fTti<S lNG 70 (j(} 
ORAFT!NG 80ARP, WHa<E 
I W LAY()(J"15 ON A PROFES­
TO 11./C(?J(fAtlY':' 70 IAJORI<. 
SIONAL. SK£TCH PA0.1 ANDII /1./ITHUS/ 
MAl<& PH07VCOP!&S.' ANO I 
I 
FAXOOCU­
/ MENT'3/ /1./ANTlV He'S 

!38A

SE&M& 60/N(j 
B~V&

fAX AN 7V MAl<£ 
GIRL-.

ACTUAL. MfgAY OOCI.JMCNT~ HOM&, \ I !SN'TH&:' 
\ 

"Freedom and not servitude is the cure of anarchy; as religion, and not atheism, is the remedy for superstition." 
Edmund Burke 

Does anarchy need a cure? Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 

Accent 
Tuesday, April 27, 1993 page 13 
Saint Mary.,s nursing progra1n co~nbines classrooin study and practical experience 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Sai· t Mary's Editor 
5:30 a.m. Tuesday: Jennifer Sypolt awakes to the sound of her buzzing alarm clock as she has every Tuesday and Thurs­day morning for the last two and a half years. She pulls on her uniform and heads off just in time to make it to the floor at 7 a.m. for another day of clinicals. 
Sypolt's experience may not be typical of the most college students, but it is typical of student nurses who spend many hours serving patients before they even graduate. 
This practical experience is one thing that differentiates nursing majors from other ma­jors at Saint Mary's College, ac­cording to Sypolt, who will be among those honored next week for their service and dedication to the profession during the celebration of National Nurses Week. 
"The difference is that we are professionals and we are already being trained to take on a professional role when we graduate," Sypolt said. "We (student nurses) have experiences before we graduate, where other students only have theoretical and classroom experiences. We're out in the community training." 
The blend of classroom theory and the practical clinical experience can cause nursing students much pressure, according to Barbara Wall, assistant professor of nursing. "The experience is both physically taxing as well as mentally taxing," Wall said. 
"The students must be pre­pared everyday. They have to study in advance, because they may have a patient who is ill with something they may not have studied yet, but they have to be prepared to deal with that," she added. 
While the clinical experience can be overwhelming at first according to majors, it is a valuable and irreplaceable 

The Observer/Dave Hungeling Lucy Haske and April Ehret, Saint Mary's College nursing majors, go on rounds at Saint Joseph's Medical Center. 
professional experience that cannot be replicated in the classroom or the laboratory. 
"Nursing is a practice profes­sion," Wall said. "The clincials provide the students with practical experience as a generalist with experience in pediatrics, obstetrics, medical­surgical, community health care and psychiatric." 
The application of the skills learned in the classroom and the laboratory to live patients in the hospital setting is one of the most challenging, but also the most rewarding for nursing stu­dents. 
"We learn things in the labs and in the classroom to prepare ourselves, but actually doing things on real live people is exciting, but it takes some getting used to the hospital situation," said sophomore nursing major Rachel Kelly. 
Junior nursing major Jennifer Toth agrees. "You really don't know what to expect," Toth 
Church History: 
By LENA JEFFERSON 
Accent writer 
Reverend Cyprian Davis, OSB in his book, "The History of Black Catholics in the United States" makes each page on the history of African-Americans in the church speak out. 
U.S. history, Roman 
Catholicism, and African history are inevitably intertwined in African-American 
Catholic  church  
history.  
Davis  is  a  
Benedictine  monk  

from St. Meinrad Archabbey. He is 

professor of church Rev. Cyprian Davis history at St. Meinrad School of theology and a specialist in the 
history of African-American Catholicism. Davis will be speaking on his book at 7:30 
p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. A reception will follow his presentation in the faculty Lounge next to the auditorium. 
The essence of Davis's book on African­American Catholics is that "the presence of the black Catholics has been a muted one, a silent witness." Davis said in the preface to his book that "it is the historians task to make the past speak, to highlight what has said. "You know the material in the books, but actually applying what I learned in class is very rewarding." 
While the clinical aspect of nursing can be very rewarding it also forces students to face very difficult situations. 
"Nursing matures you in that you deal with life and death ev­eryday," Sypolt said. "I've watched people being born and I've watched people die and the other people in my class have had the same experiences." 
"The faculty use their profes­sional experiences in the field to help the students work through these though moments," Wall said. 
Wall, who has had 23 years experience in the profession, said that she shares her exper­tise with her students so that they can utilize it during difficult situations. 
"We've (the faculty) been stu­dents before, we know the pres­sures they have and the expec­lations in the hospitals," she said. "We're skilled in our own practice and this helps us pre­pare them for what they will face." 
While the clinicals may provide much professional 
experience  for  nursing  
students,  they  are  still  
responsible  for  gaining  

knowledge in the classroom as well. 
"They have books that are three to four inches thick, be­cause there is so much informa­tion out there and the medical field is expanding so much, and they are responsible for learning it all," Wall said. 
All of this class work and clinical studies are very pressured filled for the nursing students who undertake it. 
"The time involvement, the commitment, the pressure to achieve and be proficient in ev­erything you're taught is over­whelming at times," Sypolt said. 
Wall agreed that at times committing to the profession of nursing involves a lot of work, but it is essential that the stu­dents are willing to make this commitment. 
"They are dealing with sick human beings and that is some­thing that they really have to prepare for," she said. "They have to have a knowledge base and blend that with a human caring component which at times can be difficult, but it is something that they must do. That is what nursing is." 
"In two weeks when 24 senior nursing students are pinned, which represents the final step into professional nursing, they will say with much more convic­tion than when they started that they are ready to take on the world of nursing and all that it involves," Sypolt said. 
The professional experiences they gained by working in the local hospitals will have aided in this. The road to becoming a Registered Nurse may not have been easy, but the students who have taken it say it is very rewarding. 
Reverend reflects on African-American Catholics 
been hidden, and to retrieve a mislaid memory." 
In an interview with the editors from U.S. Catholic Magazine, Davis describes why the history provided in this book is so important to African-American Catholics. 
"Black Catholics want a sense of being Catholic especially if they are converts; but they don't want to be cut off from their roots," he said."They desperately need and want a sense of identity. They have a good reason to be Catholic and to be proud of it and not feel they have given up being black." 
Davis's book, traces the history of African-American Catholicism from Ethiopia in the fourth century to the present day situation of African-American Catholics in the United States. Ethiopia had its own liturgy and translation of scriptures. 
African-American Catholics first arrived in the United States with the Spaniards in the 16th century. Later, many African­American Catholics lived in Maryland and Louisiana due to the evangelization efforts of the Jesuits. 
The influence and growth of African­American Catholics was slow before the abolition of slavery. Tension was high 
among both the hierarchy and lay people with regards to African-American Catholics. African-American Catholics many times celebrated mass in a separate section of various churches and no African­American religious could be ordained. 
Later despite the tension, two religious orders of sisters were formed; the Oblate Sisters of Providence and the Holy Family Sisters. Eventually Augustus Tolton, the first identifiably African-American priest was ordained in 1886 in Rome. 
At the end of the nineteenth century through the early twentieth century, lay African-American Catholic leaders began to emerge such as Daniel Rudd, founder of the Black Catholic Lay Congress and Thomas Wyatt Turner a university professor from the farmlands of Southern Maryland who founded the organization Federated Colored Catholics. 
Davis's talk will expand more on this history of African-American Catholics, while exploring their future as well. 
Editor's Note: Lena Jefferson is the Asstistant Director for Retreats and Special Projects at Campus Ministry 
Medical Minute 
By Ryan Grabow, EMT·B,W 

With the end of this semester upon us, it is assured that most of us will be spending many long hours preparing for the impending threat of "Finals Week!" 
In order to survive this next week and a half of hell, the average consumption o caffeinated beverages by the student body will most defi­nitely increase. 
Caffeine is a naturally occur­ring stimulant found in coffee beans, tea leaves, cocoa beans, and kola nuts. One of the most commonly ingested drugs in the· world. caffeine can be found in coffee, tea, most pops (sodas), chocolate products, and many common over-the­counter drugs. W 
The following is a list o popular name brand products and their caffeine content: 
Caffeine fmSl in a 12 oz. can: 
Jolt Cola t 67,2, Mountain Dew­S6.6, Dr.Pepper-50.6, Diet Coke 46.0, Pepsi • 36.2, Diet Pepsi -36;0, Coke Cl4ssic ~· 33.6, 
<::a.timnc hn!V in il 6 gz;, cup;Coffee "10$, Espresso -200 
. I . . 

1tu1.;.·· $(J,hda -49. Bigelow-17. Lip rjeeling-38. " 
... * .. 
Vivarin -200, No Dot. • [()0 ··· 
Caffeine affects the body by increasing the release o epinephrine .(adrenalin) from the adrenal glands, increasing the rate of chemical reactions in individual cells, and most importantly, blocking the affect of adenosine (neurological sup­pressant) in the brain. 
The benefits of caffeine are commonly known. Better con­centration, increased.alertness. and faster reaction.to stimuli are experienced 15 to 30 minutes after the consumption of a ca.U"einated beverage and these effects us1,1ally last from two t() six J:tol,lrs. . . ' 
Producing such <iesirahle e(~ fectson the body, the pos­sihiUFY. of()ne overdosing on ca.treine;is.vecy.great. {\s of yet. caffeine consutnpti9n Q.as ppt been J~;n~ed to any rn~j()r dise~e or ailment; however, to a stmJent studying for e}Cams, th(! sl~~ effe~ts of ca.~feln~ gverdQ~e ~e ~~vastating:' 
.M1,1scle sJ}a.sms, heart palpitations, ·. increased ur~na~ion; ,, irritability. ahdominaf1:Jpain, an:kiety, natiseat'and· restlessness are Cft:nui!only experienced after an O*erdose of caffeine. Consider~ ing one Xis most likely to consumelarge quantities 0 caffeine while studying the nigbt before a test, the danger of caffeine overdose is very great! tkThere is no special formula to avoid caffeine overdose. Everyone has a different toler~ ance for caffeine depending on their consumption habits, 
In order to reduce the risk o an overdose however. there is one "rule of th1,1mb": Do not consume more than 300 mg o caffe}ne (6 cans of pop or 3 cups of coffee) per day. If your tolerance is high, do not consume more than 600 mg. 
Over the next 10 days, try to limit your caffeine consumption as much as possible, You are better ()ff studying after a good Jlighfs sleep, than trying to study all night Good Luck and Stay Heal~y, 
..,... ·:.:::~·: ... 4. 
-
~---.--~-----..-----------~~~----·--~-.----------~--~--------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------­
page 14 Tuesday, April27, 1993 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar Collega 
... 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charga is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need responsible student with car  87 Chevy Nova for sale by senior  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC  APRIL 28 · NEXT WEDNESDAY •  
NOTICES  to provide summer care for 3-4 kids in Hinsdale, IL, M-F 7:30-6:00.  who is moving to NYC and can't afford to keep it there. Excellent  GRADUATION (In case of rain).  IS THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER.  SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD  
includes driving to soccer, ballet,  shape, air cond, pull out stereo, 4D.  PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399.  THERE WILL BE A SENIOR  BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF  
Do you need a ride to Florida or  etc. and afternoons at village pool.  $3000 or b.o.. Call Mike at 271­ COMMENCEMENT ISSUE ON  TOURNAMENTIII  
Georgia after finals? I am driving to  Salary negotiable, 708· 789-1686,  0157.  Looking for one extra ND  FRIDAY, MAY 14.  
Miami and I can drop you off  Marybeth Dougherty  commencement ticket. ..  SATURDAY MAY 8  
anywhere.  '79.  SALE SALE SALE SALE  call 284-5254  Deborah Kriegel of the Psyc  OPEN TO ALL  
Call Michelle 284-4440  great stereo and bed for sale  Thanks!  Department · I LOVE YOU II  
I REALLY NEED A FOUR-MAN  at a very very good price  SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN  
TYPING 256-6657  LOFT; IF YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D  call edward at 271-1365  I need extra graduation tixl  We Marched on Washington! Did  BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH  
LIKE TO SELL TO ME, PLEASE  Please call Kathryn at x2999  you see us? It was a blast, and  YOUR DORM REP  
Kim and Meg rock the wortdl  CALL X3301 AND ASK FOR RICH  APARTMENT SALE  nothing will ever be the same.  
Looking for a roommate for the 1993-94 school year in  NO PROFESSOR AND GRAD STUDENT NEED SITIER(S)  sofa-sleeper, double beds, dressers, end-tables, kitchen table. desk, TV /stereo stand  PERSONA.;]  MARKETING CLUB END OF THE YEAR  GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!!  
Omaha, NE. Call Mary at  FOR 2 CHILDREN, 1 1/2 AND  "priced to sell"  Happy 22nd B-Day AMAYA PAPAYA  PARTY  TOMORROW IS THE LAST  
x3484 if interested.  3 1/2 YRS OLD, FOR 93-94  call mark@ 271-1578  (Aimee Lucas) Hope it is filled with  Wed. April 28 at 4:30  REGULAR ISSUE OF THE  
SCHOOL YR. IN OUR HOME,  a lot of holes of golf and even more  Senior Bar  OBSERVER. GET YOUR  
SELL YOUR BOOKS FOR $$  WHILE WE ARE WORKING  MOVING OFF CAMPUS?  "Heaven in a Cup"l KIWI & PINA by  All Marketing Majors  CLASSIFIEDS IN BEFORE  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  THERE. 10-30 HRS/WK,  Bedroom Furniture for sale.  the way have Brad!!  Welcome  2:30PM TODAY.  
at the BOOKMOBILE  $5.50/HR. CALL ANGELA OR  Call Karen 271-7926  CLASSIFIEDS FOR THE MAY 14  
NO ave & Howard 233·2342  MICHAEL, 233·6901 OR  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  PITI CLUB STILL needs someone  SENIOR ISSUE CAN BE PUT IN  
631-7384.  New double bed, couch set, table,  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  to organize luggage truck or it will  ANYTIME UP UNTIL  
ND/SMC Ice Cream Sundae  etc. Call Alicia at 272-3638.  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  not be available-call 4828 if  3 PM MAY 13.  
Social!! Wednesday, April 28 from 4  Someone to share in-town  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  interested  
to 6 pm in the Hesburgh Library  storage expenses  MOVING OFF-CAMPUS?  
Lounge. Bring a penny and all your  call Liz X2966  Matching dresser, desk, bkcase,  Happy 22nd B-Day AMAYA PAPAYA  If you are moving to D.C.  SENIORSIIIII  
friends. Sponsored by the GSU  bed and mirror must be sold.  (Aimee Lucas) Hope it is filled with  permanently, join the CLUBI!  
Women's Resource Committee.  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ·  Call Leslie at 273-2661.  a lot of holes of golf and even more  (The N.D. alumni club of D.C. that  Proofs from Senior Formal  
Earn $2000+/month + world travel  "Heaven in a Cup"! KIWI &PINA by  is!) Information packets with all you  are on display at the Info desk  
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean,  Condo-Walk to Notre Dame!!  the way have Brad! I  ever wanted to know about life in  in Lafortune and at Haggar  
NEW JERSEY STUDENTS  etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  3 Bedroom, 2 Bath. Large Unit.  D.C. are available at the LaFortune  Lounge until Wednesday.  
employment available. No  $79,900. The Prudential Joseph  Adopt: we are truly loving couple  Info desk, the alumni office. career  April 28th. All candids ordered  
Luggage Trucks will be running to  experience necessary. For  Dunfee Realtors- who can bring love and happiness  and placement, and the government  from these and any packages  
campus back to New Jersey  employment program call 1-206­ Kay Norem 299-0110 or  to your white newborn. We offer  dept. To join the club, call Elsie  ordered at the dance may be  
634-0468 ext.C5584  235-3589.  financial security and a great future  Kozak Crawford, '90, 202·332-4943.  picked up from 12-5pm on  
Loading at Stepan  in our oceanside home.  Membership FREE! I  Monday, May 3rd at the same  
Thurs May 6 6:00-8:00  ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER  85 Ford Escort. 76k Good  Medical/legal expenses covered. 1·  locations.  
Fri May 7 12:30-2:30  AND NEXT YEAR. PLEASE CALL  cond. Standard trans. A steal  800-438-6599 eves.  Prehistoric­ 
289·9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE.  at $900. Call Eileen at  Tell me who I should smile at  SENIOR FORMAL PICSI!!IIII  
Unloading in Morris Plains and CBA  284-5334.  J u N 0 A s  -Flattered  
on Sun MayS  
Directions and flyers will be in the  FOR RENT  SMC approved LOFT in great condition for sale at  u SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK  HEY KIDS!!  
mail at the loading trucks.  BEST offer II!  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ TODD BROSKI NIGHT AT  "'LONG ISLAND CLUB""  
?'s call Jim @ 634-1946  system, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  MENT SERVICES FOR  BRIDGETS· TUESDAY APRIL 27!!  
prime location. $500. 109 N. St.  Call Mara at 284·5254  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  Baggage trucks are back!  
Peter, 233-9947.  $2 DONATION AT THE DOOR  We are loading them May 7th.  
Dissertations, Theses,  FURNITURE FOR SALE! QU  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  GOES TO DEFER TODD'S  
Term Papers  ROOM FOR RENT, Privacy, Util.  SZ BED, SLEEPER SOFA,  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  MEDICAL COSTS  Look for fliers in the mail.  
Word Works Typing Service  incl., Must see, Male preferred, ph  TABLES. PRICES FLEX.  A  "FREE RAFFLE TICKET WITH  
277-7406 \'­ 291·9093  287-9873.  DONATION'"  ?'s call Tim at x2763  
ILOST & FOUND I  SUMMER SUBLET Turtle Creek Townhouse  Sell bed and other furniture cheap. Call Christian, tel. 271-0157.  s ATIN: SUMMER SCHOOL  T-SHIRTS, HATS AND OTHER GREAT BRIDGET'S STUFF WILL  
Call 634-3938 for details.  STUDENTS  BE RAFFLED!!  
FOUND: 2 keys on gold key ring in  82 Kawasaki KZ440  $5.50 Haircuts  DOORS OPEN AT Bpm  
gras on south quad. One has #148  Runs good, new brakes, battery,  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  (must be21)  Top ten quotes from THE  
written on it and the other has ND3  Don't stay on-campus this  clutch. Must Sell.  1523 Lincolnway West  Birthday Dinner ...  
on it. I found these keys a long time  summer-sUB-LEASE our 2-bdrm.  $350 firm. 288-1 027 Tom  South Bend, IN  HAVE A GREAT TIME HELPING  
ago and forgot to tum them in.  apt. at CASTLE POINT!  233-4767  OUTTODDII  1. H.M. Ship  
Call Catherine at X2849  MOVING OFF CAMPUS??  2. What's wrong with my clapping?  
Enjoy air-conditioning, a pool, and  FOR SALE:  Which current NBA star would've  3. Wait, wait... my story is better.  
LOST: 6 Keys on N.D. bottle·  REDUCED RENT!!  'Queen size bed -great  played Bookstore with "The Secret  4. Can't I say anything normal?  
opener key ring in LaFortune or  condition  of Macbeth" if they hadn't lost in the  5. Michiganders do it in their head.  
Brare. Helplll #2448  CALL NOW 4-4673  'Ten speed bike for person 5'8" or  second round?  ~mmnm  6. Diann hurling children?  
above • cheap!!  Read about it in: Look Out For The  MAYOR JOE KERNAN  7. There are strange things going  
LOSTI LOST! LOSTI LOST!  'Other assorted chairs, endtables.  Manhole Cover, available now in the  -{D·SOUTH BEND)  on in the bathroom.  
one new Notre Dame water polo  BEAD 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  couches, dresser,  bookstore!  8. There was a lot to be on top of.  
jacket. It is navy blue with yellow  FOR ND/SMC PARESNTS.  'Microwave  9. But officer, it's after 12:30 and it  
letters and number 4 on the sleeve.  219/291-7153  CALL LAURA #273-8377  THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE  "HOW TO BE A POLITICIAN"  had a white border.  
It has my name stitched on the  TEAM is currently accepting  10. So bye bye Miss American Pie ..  
front. Last seen in the Knott Hall  Room in House for summer in  applications for a part-time debate  Diann. Stacia, Veronica and Steve.  
laundry room after 2am. Sun.  Indian Village 1/4 mile north of NO.  coach. If interested, send a resume,  thank you so much for the best  
morning. If you have it or you've  Nice yard, washer, cat, semi·  incusbus-the campus CD  two letters of recommendation, and  birthday (and laughs) I've had in a  
seen it please call x4941 or deliver  furnished 273·1384  a list of previous debate  long time! I  
it to 240 Knott Hall (no questions  is on sale at the  achievements to the Vice President  Love.  
asked). It is very cold without a  1 blk from NO Apts. Safe,  Info. Desk in LaFortune  of Student Affairs  Ann  
jacket so please return it. I miss it.  affordable, furnished apts.  University of Notre Dame  
Thanks.  At 755 South Bend Ave.:  the disc only costs $8  315 Main Building  
Davida  STUDIO: $215  Get yours now-it's good stuff!  Notre Dame, IN 46556  
1-BDRM: $245  DEADLINE: May 1.  TODAY! • 4 PM  
LOST a week or so ago:  2-BDRM: $330  (sponsored by SUB)  NOTRE DAME ROOM  SEGA GENESIS, 3 TAPES FOR  
Black money clip, no money  Doctor and teacher will make  (LAFORTUNE)  SALE 3 MOS OLD  
(of course). but I can identify it.  At 607 E. Corby:  dreams for your baby come true.  $100/ BO CALL 1459  
PLEASE call Dave at 234-9209.  1 BDRM: $265  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  
Thanks.  At 519 E. Corby:  TICKETS  summers by the beach. Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  
'Lost at Senior Formal in  2 BDRM: $280  in winter, and by ocean waves in  Career & Placement will be in  
Chicago' 1 roll of completed  Help!Help!Help! I need grad tickets!  summer. Art, music, the best  the Library concourse on Tues ..  
film with 2 months of pictures •  SUMMER OR FALL.  If you have extra call Joe@ 277·  education, endless love. Call  May 4 and Wed., May  
EXTREME sentimental value ·  Dep. & References.  4273.  Franny or Stephen collect.  5 from 10:00-2:00 to collect our  
if found, PLEASE call Mary at  1-800-582-9320.  (212) 369-2597.  Future Plans Survey and  
46191  DESPERATELY SEEKING  yellow Database cards from the  
- SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM  GRADUATION TICKETS!!  SPONSORED BY THE  Class of '93.  
WANTED  HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. GREAT RATES! AVAIL.  Gram and Gramp are coming and I need 2 tix. Please call  ••golf'golf'golf'golf'golf'golf'' $'$'$'$'$'$'$'$'$"$'$'$"$'  ENTREPRENEUR CLUB  
NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272·6306  Kristin at 4-4272 if you have  WIN PRIZES!  
Looking for 1 ROOMATE to  any extras, and name your  Sign up for the  Looking for that new  
live at Campus View next yr.  "Students"  price.  TODD BROSKI BENEFIT  apartmenVhouse-mate after  
w/2 other guys aprox. $200/m fum  Now renting 1300 sq It condos at  GOLF TOURNAMENT  LOCAL MEDIA HAS BEEN  graduation? Career & Placement  
& util. incl. Paul x2990  College Park Condominiums. All  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC  CONTACTED AND IS  has a posting down in the office that  
units include:  GRADUATION(IN CASE OF RAIN).  Saturday, May 8, 1993  SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE  students are adding their names to  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT·  ·Security systems,  PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399.  $10 Student entrance fee  m1!11m1lm11m111l'IMI1l'IMI  in order to fill that spot. Stop down  
Make money teaching basic  -Hard wood floors,  $35 Staff/Public entrance fee  now and check back often.  
conversational English abroad.  -All appliances.  Ltke 5000 others, I too NEED  Sign ups at the LaFortune  
Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­$4,000+ per month. Many provide  -Washer & dryer in unit, -Large balconies,  GRAD TIX !! But I' m a swell guy, so call KJ @ 273·2958  Information Desk. the Pro Shop(behind the Rock), or with a  LOOKING FOR 1-3 PEOPLE WHO NEED RIDE TO DALLAS  J U N 0 A S  
room & board + other benefits! No  -Gas utilities,  Dorm representative  MAY 7 OR 8 CALL  
previous training or teaching  -Free covered parking,  One way tkt from South Bend to  ENTER NOW!  STEPHANIE AT X4928  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  
certificate required. For International  -2 large bedrooms.  Newark,NJ on May 17:$100  OF RESUME AND DISK  
Employment program. call the  ·2 full bathrooms.  or best offer. Call 289-4278.  "other donations accepted  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ 
International Employment Group:  -Only 1/4 mile from door of  and appreciated  SALLY D. IN RECSPORTS •  MENT SERVICES FOR  
(206) 632-1146 ext. J5584.  Hesburgh library.  I NEED 1 RETURN FLIGHT FROM  "all proceeds to defer medical  CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
For appt. · 272·0691 or see Off­ SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO  costs for Todd)  HOLE-IN-ONE!  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Campus Housing office.  SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON  $'$'$'$"$'$"$'$"$'$'$'$'$'  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
• fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  MAY 23 CALL RICH, 631·5370  • • golf' golf' golf' golf' golf' golf'  WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
canneries or $4000+/month on  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  BAGGAGE TRUCK HOME  A  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  KITCHEN, PHONE,  1 WY· TICKET; FEMALE  
Room & Board! Over 8000  5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS.  MAY 18, S.BND ·TAMPA  WANTED!!!  LOADING TIMES  s  
openings. No experience  272·0615.  $125 OBO FRANK 634-4539  DONATE YOUR UNUSED PENS,  THURSDAY· MAY 6  
necessary. Male or Female. For  PENCILS AND PAPER!  FRIDAY · MAY 7  
employment program call 1-206­ Whose Bookstore team motto  (12:00 P.M.-5:00P.M.)  
545-4155 ext.A5584  For Sale  was,"We're not worried about  They will be sent to a needy school  
winnin' or iosin', we're just out to do  in Africa  N. QUAD-STEPAN COURTS  
We need a 3rd roommate for our  WEDDING GOWN,  some bruisin'"?  Look for boxes in DORMS, 314  S. QUAD· LYONS COURTS  
summer apt!l!(rent will be low) OakHill. Joannie 273-9406 Coria  "DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6. GORGIOUS. NEVER WORN. $500.  Find out in: Look Out For The Manhole Cover, available now in the  O'SHAG & DEClO  ???????QUESTIONS?????? CALL PAT CADY(#3580)  see CLASS I page 17  
x235B  271-5632.  bookstore!  Sponsored by PI SIGMA ALPHA  



.--------­
Tuesday, April 27, 1993 The Observer page 15 
~ 

••••• ••••• ••••. ..•.•• ............. ..••• ••••• ...... ...... 4/tt 
. =--0 ~ . : . : . : : :: : :: :: :: :: : 0 ¥''"••.. ..-:; .
..... ·~""' 
---. ~~~ ) ••••• • • •••••• •••••• •••••• • • ....... ...... • • "">: ' ·~ ) 'Z'l~ ~ 
'---"" .\.~ ,_.. I I • I I I I e I I I I I I I I ",t < ~~J I "---'· 
~ ' • ..... ::IIIU.:I.III: ··.:111111:11111::11111:: :: ··.:IIIII: v~"''-~"' ...:::::::;..., 
STANDINGS  TRANSACTIQNS  NHL PLAYOFFS  
AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division w L Detroit 13 5 Boston 11 8 Toronto 11 8 New York 10 8 Milwaukee 7 9  Pet .722 .579 .579 .556 .438  GB 21/2 21/2 3 5  L10 z-9-1 z-4-6 z-6-4 5-5 5-5  Streak Won 6 Lost 5 Won 3 Won 2 Won 1  Home 7­1 6 -1 7­3 3-3 4­4  Away 6­4 5-7 4­5 7­5 3-5  BASEBALL American League CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Purchased the contract of Barry Jones, pitcher, from Nashville of the American Association. Placed Terry Leach, pitcher, on the 15-day disabled list retroactive to April 24. CLEVELAND INDIAN$-Purchased the  FOOTBALL National Football League GREEN BAY PACKER$--Signed Tyrone Shavers, wide receiver. Canadian Football League OTTAWA ROUGH RIDER$--Signed Joe Fuller, cornerback. Announced the retirement of Scott Campbell, quarterback.  Stanley Cup Playoff Glance DIVISION SEMIFINALS (Best-of-7) Sunday, April 25 New Jersey 4, Pittsburgh 1 St. Louis 4, Chicago 3, OT, St. Louis wins series 4-0 Los Angeles 3, Calgary 1, series tied 2-2  
Cleveland 7 11 .389 Baltimore 5 12 .294 West Division w L Pet California 12 4 .750 Texas 10 7 .588 Chicago 9 9 .500 Minnesota 8 10 .444 Seattle 8 10 .444 Kansas City 7 12 .368 Oakland 5 10 .333 NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division w L Pet Philadelphia 13 4 .765 Montreal 11 7 .611 St. Louis 11 8 .579  6 71/2 GB 21/2 4 5 5 61/2 61/2 GB 21/2 3  4-6 -4-6 L10 z-8-2 4-6 z-5-5 z-4-6 4-6 5-5 z-2-8 L10 z-7-3 z-8-2 4-6  Won 2 Lost 2 Streak Won 6 Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 4 Lost 2 Lost 1 Lost 4 Streak Won 3 Lost 1 Won 2  4-3 2­5 Home 9-2 4-2 3-3 5-7 6­5 5-8 5-6 Home 9-2 8-4 7-5  3-8 3-7 Away 3-2 6-5 6-6 3-3 2­5 2­4 0-4 Away 4-2 3­3 4-3  contract of Matt Young, pitcher, from Charlotte of the International League. Sent Mike Christopher, pitcher, to Charlotte. Named Jackie Huggins purchasing agent. KANSAS CITY ROYALs-Traded Mike Boddicker, pitcher, to the Milwaukee Brewers for a player to be named later. SEATTLE MARINERs-Claimed Zak Shinall, pitcher, off waivers from Cleveland and optioned him to Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association DETROIT PISTONS-Fired Ron Ro!hstein, coach.  HOCKEY National Hockey League FLORIDA PANTHERs-Named Dean Jordan vice president of business and marketing. MIGHTY DUCKS OF ANAHEIM­Named Ken Wilson vice president of sales and marketing. East Coast Hockey League BIRMINGHAM BULLs-Named Phil Roberto coach. COLLEGE EAST COAST CONFERENCE­Announced the addition of Troy State for all male and female sports beginning in the fall with the exception of football. LSU-Announced Kirk Goehring, forward, will transfer to Pepperdine.  Toronto 3, Detroit 2, series tied 2-2 Vancouver 3, Winnipeg 1, Vancouver leads series 3-1 Monday, April 26 Pittsburgh 5, New Jersey 3, Pit1sburgh wins series 4-1 Washington 6, NY Islanders 4, NY Islanders lead series 3-2 Montreal 5, Quebec 4, OT, Montreal leads series 3-2 Tuesday, April 27 Toronto at Detroit, 7:30p.m. Los Angeles at Calgary, 9:30p.m. Winnipeg at Vancouver, 10:30 p.m. Wednesday, April 28 Washington at NY Islanders, 7:30 p.m. Quebec at Montreal, 7:30 p.m.  
Chicago  9  8  .529  4  6-4  Won  1  6­ 5  3­ 3  
Pittsburgh  10  9  .526  4  3-7  Won  2  5-6  5­ 3  
New York  8  9  .471  5  4-6  Lost  2  4­ 7  4­ 2  
Florida  7  12 .368  7  4-6  Lost  1  3­ 6  4-6  
West Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
San Francisc 11  8  .579  z-6-4  Won  1  5­2  6­6  
Houston  10  8  .556  1/2  5-5  Lost  2  2­ 5  8­ 3  
Atlanta  11  10 .524  1  5-5  Lost  2  4­ 4  7­ 6  
San Diego  8  9  .471  2  6-4  Won  2  3­ 4  5-5  
Cincinnati  7  12 .368  4  5-5  Won  1  3­ 4  4-8  
Colorado  6  11  .353  4  z-4-6  Lost  2  4­ 5  2-6  
Los Angeles  6  13 .3t6  5  3-7  Lost  6  3­ 3  3-10  

z-denotes first game was a win 
AMERICAN LEAGUE Monday's Games Late Game Not Included 
Milwaukee 10, Minnesota 3 Toronto 8, Texas 6 Chicago 7, Baltimore 0 Detroit 5, Kansas City 3 Cleveland at Seattle, (n) 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Monday's Games Late Games Not Included 
Cincinnati 3, Florida 0 Los AnCJeles at New York, ppd., rain St. Louis 3, Houston 2 Pittsburgh 4, Atlanta 3, t1 innings San Francisco at Philadelphia, (n) Chicago at Colorado, (n) Montreal at San Diego, (n) 
WANTED! SMC/ND VOLUNTEERS 
FOR 

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY BUILDING BLITZ AUGUST 2 7-27 
Come back to school early and give 
your time to build 5 new houses in 
South Bend•s Northeast Neighborhood. 
Pick up an information packet and Application 
before you leave this summer at 
the Center for Social Concerns 
Ad sponsored in part by Habitat for Humanity ND Chapter 




,....------~-----·---~---------~--~ -----­
page 16 The Observer Tuesday, April27, 1993 
Penguins clinch series over Devils 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -The Pittsburgh Penguins lost just once in 51 days. They weren't about to lose twice in two days. 
Jeff Daniels and Ron Francis scored 21 seconds apart in the third period and the Penguins, frustrated for 1 1/2 periods by New Jersey's clutch-and-grab defense, beat the Devils 5-3 Monday to win the Patrick Di­vision semifinal series in five games. 
The two-time defending Stan­ley Cup champions, whose playoff-record 14-game win­ning streak ended with Sun­day's 4-1 loss, won their ninth consecutive playoff series over three seasons. They will play either the New York Islanders or Washington Capitals in the division finals beginning Sun­day afternoon in Pittsburgh. New York leads 3-2 after Washington's 6-4 victory Mon­day night. 
"We went so long without 

Montreal leads series 3-2 over Quebec 
QUEBEC (AP) -Montreal's only shot in overtime produced a goal by Kirk Muller that gave the Canadiens a 5-4 victory over the Quebec Nordiques Monday night and a 3-2 lead in their Adams Division semifinal Monday night. 
Muller took Vincent Damp­housse's pass on his forehand and ripped a low shot that caught goalie Ron Hextall on the move at 8:17 of overtime. 
Montreal has a chance to close out the series Wednesday night at Montreal. The Mon­treal-Quebec winner meets Buffalo in the Adams Division final. 
The third overtime game of the series was forced when Montreal's Gilbert Dionne tied it 4-4 with a goal at 13:23 of the losing, we showed we could lose a game and not· fold the tent," defenseman Larry Murphy said. "There were questions how we would handle losing for the first time in so long, and we answered them. We didn't want to go back to Jersey for Game 6." 

Winning their 13th straight home game, the Penguins ­21-1-1 since March 5-bolted to a 2-0 first-period lead, fell behind 3-2 in the second, then finally solved the Devils' relent­less, desperation defensive pressure. 
"We stayed with what we wanted to do, but that's one great hockey club we played," Devils coach Herb Brooks said. "That's an intelligent club that has so many ways to beat you. We ran into one of the premier teams in the NHL, when the history of hockey is written." 
Mario Lemieux, frustrated for most of two games by the 
final period. 

Mats Sundin had two goals and Andrei Kovalenko and Owen Nolan also scored for the Nordiques, who turned what had been a disciplined series into an intense alTair when they came out bumping and hitting the Canadiens, to the delight of the announced crowd of 15,399. 
Mike Keane, Damphousse and Eric Desjardins also scored for Montreal. 
The game broke open when Montreal goaltender Patrick Roy left after allowing a goal to Kovalenko at 1:46 of the second period. Moments earlier, Roy had suffered a bruised right shoulder when struck by a high shot from Mike Hough. 
Roy, who had been outstand­ing in the first period. returned shadowing of Dave Barr and John MacLean, and Rick Toc­chet each had a goal and an as­sist, but the biggest goal was by Daniels, a third-line left winger who scored only five goals in 58 regular-season games. 
Francis' 30-foot slap shot from the right circle, his second goal of the series, tied it at 3 at 7:07, and the Penguins immediately began pressuring New Jersey goaltender Chris Terreri again after the faceoiT. 
Dave Tippett's slapper from the left circle ricocheted wildly to Daniels near the left hash­mark, where he beat Terreri to the glove side inside the far post for his first goal in five career playoiT games. 
It took Daniels just 11:31 to get his second, scoring an empty-netter at 18:59. Daniels moved up from the fourth line Sunday when Troy Loney left the team to be with an ill family member. 
to start the third. 

Montreal had a goal disal­lowed 2:14 into the game when referee Terry Gregson ruled that Muller had interfered with Hextall. 
Then Keane scored on a blast from the high slot between Hextall's pads at 4:24. 
Kovalenko swung round the net and tucked one in ofT the far post to start the middle period, chasing Roy. Sundin's high shot past backup goalie Andre Racicot on a power play at 8:17 made it 2-1. 
Damphousse tied it with a backhander off the center bar inside the net that needed con­firmation by a video replay at 
11:00. Desjardins went in alone to put Montreal in front 3-2 at 17:14. 
Revive with VIVARIN~ 
Contains caffeine .,;.;;:..lent to 2 cups of oo«;;;---------------­
Capitals avoid oust with hat trick 
LANDOVER, Md. (AP)-The Washington Capitals got a hat tri(ikfrom AI Iafrate, avoided ovet(ime a.nd staved off elimi­nation i.rt their Patrick Division Sf):des against the New York lsw landers with a 6-4 victory Mon­day night. 
The Islanders, who got four goals from Ray Ferraro, still hold a. 3-2 lead and can wrap up. the best-of-7 series Wednesday night in New York. 
lafrate.'s third goal gave the Capitals· a 5-1 lead with 11:U lti:ft. f)utFetraro brought the Is­lai)p~l"s ba,ck. He capped a 2~ qn;l with 10:06 to go, com· pl!~t~d his hat trick with 5:38 left and then flipped in a back­hander with 2:15 remaining afte(New. York had pulled its goalie. · The Islanders' comeback stalled when Tom Fitzgerald was called for slashing with l:!$6, ~md ·the Capitals wrapped 
U:p ]ht:! victory when Dale ll4nt~t $~Qred into an empty net With 7;5 seconds to go. 
Wasllington, which had blown two•gQruleads in the two previ­ous games! had dropped three !)traigbt in overtime after win­n.ing Game 1 in regulation. the 
Looks like a Vivarin night. 
It's 10 PM. You've crammed for finals all week. Took two today. And now you've got to pack an entire semester's worth of Philosophy into one take-home exam, in one night. But how do you stay awake when you're totally wiped? Revive with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, Vivarin helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. So when you have pen in hand, but sleep on the brain, make it a Vivarin night! 
Islanders' last six playoff wins have been in overtime. 
It was the first career hat trick for Iafrate, giving the Capitals defenseman five goals in two games. 
With the score 1-all, Iafrate scored at 14:48 of the first pe­riod on a slap shot from the left point with the Capitals on the power play. Less than two minutes later, Iafrate took a lead pass from Bobby Carpen­ter and fired a shot from the left circle that found the far corner of the net. 
After watching the Capitals score on three of their first nine shots, New York coach AI Arbour pulled goalie Glenn Healy in favor of Mark Fitz­patrick at the outset of the sec­ond period. 
Fitzpatrick held Washington in check until 16:41, when Hunter sent a pass into the crease that struck Pat Elynuik and went into the net for a 4-1 lead. 
Washington goalie Don Beaupre, making his first start of the playoffs, had 28 saves. It was the first time since 1988 that Washington had won a game when facing elimination. 
Can this really be a 20 year old Domer? 
Happy Birthday Andrew 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, and Jim 
I -~ 


-~---~--­
----~------------~-----­
Coach fired after Pistons fail to make playoffs 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) ­Ron Rothstein, whose team failed to make the playoffs for the first time in 10 years, was fired Monday as coach of the Detroit Pistons. 
Pistons president Tom Wilson and Billy McKinney, the player personnel director, met with Rothstein at The Palace on Monday and announced his dismissal at an afternoon news conference. 
"This team was beset with inherent problems from the day I took over," Rothstein said in a statement. "I don't think I have to recount the other problems that unfolded as the year progressed. 
"I have given this job my all from day one. I tried to find a balance between the needs and wants of the players and what I felt was my responsibility as the 
Class 
continued from page14 
**SENIORs•• Class Watercolor Lithograph Created by David Colgan On Sale Now 
at LaFortune Info Desk 
Buy Now, You won't want to graduate without itlll **SENIORs•• 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 in LaFortune Student Center QUALITY COPIES as low as 3¢ each OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
head coach. Above all, I have 16 without him. They even lost were then." also quit to become general tried to conduct myself in a to Dallas. In the end, they Rothstein made his reputation manager of the Minnesota professional manner." missed qualifying for the play­as an assistant to Daly. As a re­Timberwolves. 
Don Chaney, an assistant who offs by one game. sult, the expansion Miami Heat That left Rothstein on his own, once coached the Houston "I think it's really important made him their first coach in with players who didn't like him Rockets, is considered a leading for a coach to have great rap­1988. But the complaints in Mi­and a general manager who candidate to succeed Rothstein, port with his players," McKin­ami were the same as the com­didn't sign him. The lack of although the club would not ney said. "After all, it's a play­plaints in Detroit. The players support from the front office comment in that regard. ers' league." didn't like his hard-driving, also was a factor as the season 
"It wouldn't be fair to say that short-tempered style. unfolded. before we talk to all our assis­Robertson was replaced by He returned to Detroit as a "In retrospect, maybe we tants," McKinney said. "Maybe Chuck Daly, who went on to be­Pistons' broadcaster last sea­should have said, 'OK, Ron's the toward the end of this week, or come an icon in Detroit, leading son. But that didn't sit well with coach and he's here for four early next week, we'll have an the Pistons to the NBA finals players like Rodman, either. years -you might as well get 
announcement on a replace­three times and winning con­They felt he was looking over used to it,' " Wilson said. "But ment." secutive championships in 1989 Daly's shoulder, trying to push that might not have been 
Rothstein's biggest problem and 1990. him out. honest. It might have helped in was Dennis Rodman. The "It is naturally difficult when Daly quit at the end of the sea­the short term, but not for the moody forward missed all of you come in behind a man like son, taking the New Jersey Nets long term." training camp, a West Coast Chuck, and especially in an or­job. The Nets are in the playoffs It is unlikely the next coach, road trip and several other ganization that's had so much this season. whoever he is, will have to games because of suspensions success," McKinney said. Rothstein was signed to a four­worry about Rodman. The NBA or vague injuries. "We're not a championship year contract worth a reported rebounding leader almost 
In all, Rodman missed 20 team anymore. And the players $2.1 million by Jack McCloskey. surely will be traded before games and the Pistons were 4-aren't the same now as they But a week later, McCloskey next season. 
Kentucky Derby riders might wear mini cameras 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) -A the track's general counsel and owner must give their consent. "I think it breaks the focus of jockey in the Kentucky Derby secretary, adding that the one­-ABC cannot pay the jockey. the rider in this race," said may be equipped with a mini­pound unit would be included in -The jockey would be se-Bowman. camera if he wants to wear it, the jockey's 126 pounds. lected before the post draw. ''I'm a purist, especially with and if the owner and trainer the Derby. I don't think we need give their approval. The conditions for the device Pat Day, who rode W E. Tee to experimentation in the Derby. 
The Kentucky Racing Com­are: victory in last year's Derby, said There are too many unknown mission gave its approval in an -ABC-TV would furnish a li­the camera would "give the contingencies." 8-1 vote Monday after Churchill ability insurance policy for public a tremendous view of the Waldrop said the jockey cam Downs gave five conditions for a Churchill Downs and the jockey. race," but added, "I would still has been used six times at U.S. "jockey cam" to be used for the -Approval from the Federal be hesitant to wear it." tracks without incident. first time Saturday's Derby. Aviation Administration that He said he was approached 
The jockey would have a two­would allow a helicopter to fly about wearing the device in the Mickey Solomone, manager of ounce camera attached to his 2,000 feet around the perimeter Arlington Million last year, but the Jockey Guild, said he was helmet and a battery pack of the track during the race to decided against it because "I not opposed to the camera strapped to his lower back. pick up the signal from the was aware of it being there." "with the proper (insurance) 
"It should be a non-factor in camera. Commissioner Carl Bowman coverage in place. I think it's the race," said Alex Waldrop, -The jockey, trainer and agreed with Day. good for the game." 

- ----------­ 
-­ 
--------------~-­ 

Drop off your books at: 
the Cavanaugh Room in LaFortune 
Wednedday, May 5 from 2-8 Thurdday, May 6 from 2-8 Friday, May 7 from 12-5 Saturday, May 8 from 9-noon 
Books will be sold next fall. All profits go directly back to the seller. 

Tuesday, April27, 1993  The Observer  page 17  

c ,. ( t (' ' .... ' , .. ' • 

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, April27, 1993 
First-place Tigers eating up opponents at the plate 
Fielder, Deer, Tettleton, Phillips, Gladden, Gibson leading the attack 
(AP)-Detroit is scoring more like the Lions than the Tigers. 
The Tigers aren't just winning games. They are pummeling opponents, scoring runs in bunches. 
They fell into a little slump in their series finale at Minnesota on Sunday, managing just one run in the first six innings. 
Then they made up for that oversight, scoring 15 in the final two innings for a 16-5 victory. That came less than 24 hours after winning, 17-1. Those wins followed lopsided scores of 12­4, 20-3 and 20-4 run up in the last two weeks by this modern Murderer's Row. 
Detroit's numbers in the first month of the season are mind­boggling, forcing statisticians to work overtime. 
The Tigers outscored the Twins 45-10 in the three-game series, and outhomered Min­nesota 11-2. The American League record for runs in three consecutive games is 56, set by Boston in June 1950. 
Twice this season, Detroit has scored 20 runs. Only two teams in modern major league history have scored 20 or more runs on three different occasions in one year. The Tigers might do it four or five times. 
Detroit leads the majors with 145 runs (8.5 per game) and 27 homers in its first 17 games. Maintained for the full season, that prodigious pace translates to 1,377 runs and 257 home runs. Both would be records. 
The modern record for runs in a season is 1,067 by the 1931 New York Yankees. The Yankees hold the record for runs in month, scoring 275 in 36 games August 1938, an av­erage of 7.6 per game. 
New York also holds the mark for home runs in a season, hit­ting 240 in 1961, led by Roger Maris' 61 and Mickey Mantle's 54. 
The '31 Yankees included Babe Ruth (163 RBls). Lou 


Gehrig (184 RBls). Ben Chap­man (122 RBls) and Tony Lazzeri (83 RBis). 
This season's Tigers feature a lot of players cast ofT by other teams, including Cecil Fielder, Hob Deer, Mickey Tettleton, Tony Phillips, Dan Gladden and Kirk Gibson. 
To the Twins over the week­end, however, they all looked like that Yankees team from 62 years ago. Minnesota's team ERA zoomed from 4.21 to 5.88. 
"Hight now we are all hitting," Phillips said. "We can get a walk and a home run and score some runs. We can get two straight home runs. With the guys we have who can hit it out, if we can get people on base in front of them, we've always got a chance." 
In their four big victories this season, the Tigers have outscored their opposition 73­
13. Amazingly, Fielder has only three RBls in those games. 
Fielder has led the major leagues in RBis the last three seasons, joining Ruth as the only players to do it. He had 16 HBis in the Tigers' first 17 games. 
"You just keep going and pressing and trying to do bet­ter," Fielder said. "This is one of those beautiful things. The way we're feeling now, we'll keep pressing and know that our good inning is going to come." 
Sparky Anderson knows a lit­tle bit about high-scoring teams. He was the manager of Cincinnati's "Big Red Machine" led by Johnny Bench, Pete Rose, Joe Morgan and Tony Perez. 
"I don't think I've ever seen that before," Anderson said of the weekend blitz. "If we pitch at all, they can't stop us from being in the hunt." 
The Tigers led the majors with 791 runs last season, but they gave up 794 for a league-low 
4.60 ERA. It was the first time that set of circumstances ever occurred. 
"It's hard to believe that we can keep scoring this many runs," Anderson said. "Everyone is contributing. You have to look at everybody. It hasn't been one particular guy." 
The leader of the pack might end up being Travis Fryman, the Tigers' third selection in the 1987 draft, who was hitting .348 with four homers and 18 RBis entering Monday night's game at Kansas City. 
One more thing to consider. 
Detroit averaged 15 runs in its sweep of Minnesota. The De­troit Lions averaged 17 points per game in 1992. But then again, the Tigers don't have anyone with Barry Sanders' speed. 

AP File Photo 

Cecil Fielder is one of the leaders of Detroit's renewed offensive attack which is averaging 8.5 runs per game. 
Tuesday, April27, 1993 

track finishes on high note 
By MARY GOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team crossed the finish line in full force in their final meet of the season last Saturday at Elmhurst College. 
According to team member, 
Kerri McKinley, the team achieved a Jot of personal bests. "We saw a lot of hard work pay off," she said. 
Although it was a non" scoring meet. coach Larry Szczechowski tallied the team's score. The Belles finished with 14 points an improvement from last season's score of eleven in the same meet. 
Team member. Joann Weed, commented on the good level o competition that the team faced. Among the teams pre~ sent were Marquette, Chicago State, and Wisconsin Milwau­kee College. 
"This was the best season since my freshman year." said senior co-captain. Cheryl For­tunak, who set a personal best in the 400. "I told the girls that I was happy with the way the season ended on a highnote." 
McKinley said that Saturday's meet, "didn't feel like a finale.'' Fortunak agreed by saying, "the end of the season didn't truly hit me until we turned in our uniforms today." 
The Varsity Awards Banquet will make the end of the season a reality for Fortunak. She is the only member of the track team to graduate this year. Next season the Belles will re· turn two juniors, two sopho­mores. and numerous fresh· men. 
The Observer page 19 
Saint Mary•s softball beats Kalamazoo twice yesterday 
Freshman short stop Shan· non Heise also played an out­standing game. She had a double, a triple, one RBI, one stolen base, and she scored two runs in the first game. 
In the second game, freshman second baseman Amy Misch scored three runs and played excellent defense. Sophomore Seanne Patrick and freshman Michelle Limb each scored two runs. Limb also had three RBI's and was the winning pitcher in the first game. 
"It felt good to win our last two games, and we're really looking forward to next sea­son," Limb said. 
Freshman pitcher Laura Richter pitched for the win in the second game. She twice struck out batters to get out of a bases loaded situation. In addi­tion, Richter helped out her cause at the plate with two RBI's. 
Everyone agreed that the team as a whole played to their maximum potential. Freshman Maria Vogel commented that, "The last few games we've been getting stronger. Today was a strong team effort and a great way to end the season." 
Wake Forest's Rodney Rogers heads to riches of NBA draft 

By CHERYL GILLILAND 
Sports Writer 
In the first time in three years, the Saint Mary's softball team defeated the perennially powerful Kalamazoo College on Monday. Saint Mary's won the first game 9-4 and the second game 9-6. 
The double header was the last home appearance for the Belles and ended their regular season with a record of 16-10. 
The Belles' head coach Don Cromer was pleased with the way the year went. 
"We've had a fantastic sea­son. We have a lot of young players on the team, and it's a shame that we have to end the season," said Cromer. 
Many players felt that Mon­day's wins were the perfect way to end the season. Bridget McCourt, the team's only senior, played solid defense in both games and caught the third out of the last inning in the second game. 
"Today we finally had nice weather and the chance to end our season on a good note," she said. 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. (AP) -Wake Forest forward Rodney Rogers made it official Monday: He will enter the NBA college draft, passing up his senior year at the Atlantic Coast Conference school. 
"I thought it was time to go on to the next level," said Rogers, a 6-foot-7. 235-pound forward from Durham, N.C. 
Rogers averaged more than 21 points this year for the De· mon Deacons, picking up nu­merous awards along the way. Besides ACC player of the year, he also was a second-team All­American. 
In three seasons at Wake Forest, Rogers scored 1,720 points, an average of more than 
The Honor Code 
applies to all faculty and undergraduates at Notre Dame. 
Read it. Understand it. Know it. 
19agame. 
The decision to turn pro was a difficult one to make, he said. He talked at length with coach Dave Odom several times be­fore making up his mind about two or three weeks ago. 
"To my teammates at Wake Forest and my family and friends, it gives me a lot of sad­ness to tell you I'm leaving," Rogers said during a packed news conference. "But I'm do­ing what I think is best for me and my family." 
The prospect of a rookie cap in the NBA had no effect on his decision to enter the draft this year, Rogers said. 
Before making up his mind, Rogers talked with Chicago Bulls star Michael Jordan, who left North Carolina early to turn pro. He also sought out Larry Johnson and Tyrone "Muggsy" Bogues, both of the Charlotte Hornets. 
Mendoza's Guitars 
Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of 
Saint Mary,s 
272-7510 
SENIORS! 
Proofs from Senior Formal are on display at the Information Desk in Lafortune and at Haggar Lounge until Wednesday, April 28m. All Candids ordered from these and any packages 
ordered at the dance may be picked up from 12-5 p.m. on 
Monday, May 3w at the same locations. 
SENIOR FORMAL PICTURES 

While he listened to their ad­vice, he ultimately made the call. 
"This wasn't up to my family or friends to decide," he said. "It was up to Rodney Rogers." 
Rogers was joined by his mother, Estella, and other family members for the news conference. 
His mother said she supports his decision but wants him to remember that she wants him to get his college degree. 
"So far he's done what he promised," she said. "If he doesn't get it, it will be some­thing he'll have to live with." 
Rogers led the Demon Dea­cons to a top 10 ranking and the round of 16 in the NCAA tournament. He was first-team All-ACC in 1992 and 1993. 
Rogers shot 55 percent from the floor in leading the Demon Deacons to a 21-8 record, their best since 1984. 
Teammate Randolph Childress said Rogers made the right decision. 
"He's already proven himself in the best basketball confer­ence in the country," said Chil­dress, who attended the news conference along with several other Wake players. 
"I told him he should do it," he 
said, acknowledging that 
Rogers' departure leaves a 
huge void in Wake's starting lineup. "I don't think anyone in the country could fill his spot." 
The Sporting News has said Rogers could be among the top five players taken in the draft. Other observers have said the burly forward's prospects were hurt by a poor showing in the NCAA Southeast Regional at Charlotte last month. Rogers was upstaged in that game in a matchup against Kentucky's Jamal Mashburn, scoring just 14 points. 
Odom said the ACC is losing one of its greats. 
"He is certainly one of the best basketball players to ever play in this leagu~." he said. "And he did it with grace. style and class." 
Rogers has the size and talent to be an all-star in the NBA, Odom said. 
"He is ready to play in that league," he said. "I think he'll be a great pro, but like all young pro player& it will take some time. There were a lot of things he could have worked on to be even better if he had come back next year." 
Rogers acknowledged that fi. nances were a big factor in his 
decision. ­
"I want to do something for 
my family after they've done so 
much for me all my life," he 
said. 
PROJECT PASSAGON 
HELP! 
Pi Sigma Alpha is collecting unused PENS, PENCILS, AND PAPER to send to a school in_ Benin, West Africa 
Boxes in DORMS, 3X4 O'SHAUGHNESSY and DEClO APRIL 26 ·MAY 7 
Supported by the National Chapter of PI SIGMA ALPHA 
~-­
page 20 The Observer Tuesday, April 27, 1993 
Free agency affects quarterback selection 
NEW YORK (AP)-When as many kickers are drafted as quarterbacks, there's some­thing different about the NFL draft. 
The difference, of course, is free agency. 
The first draft of the free­agent era ended Monday with rounds 5-8. making this one­third shorter than the 12 rounds of previous years -224 players chosen instead of 336. 
The most unique statistic? 
Only eight quarterbacks were chosen, four in the last two rounds. including lleisman Trophy winner Gino Torretta. He was taken by Minnesota late in the seventh round. That's the same number of kickers or punters taken, including Daron Alcorn. a punter-kicker from Akron, who was the last pick. 
Quarterbacks. of course. were the first two picks -Drew Bledsoe of Washington State went to New England and Hick Mirer of Notre Dame went to Seattle. 
After that. only two more went until Torretta was chosen with the 192nd pick. They were Billy Joe Hobert, to the Los Angeles Haiders with the last pick of the second round, and Mark Brunell. to Green Bay on the fifth round. Both played at Washington. 
Finally, Torretta was taken by Minnesota; Alex Van Pelt of Pitt went to the Pittsburgh Steelers with the 216th pick. Three picks later, San Francisco took Michigan's Elvis Grbac and three picks after that San Diego went for Indiana's Trent Green. 
But other decently regarded college quarterbacks went through the eight rounds and are now free agents -Florida's Shane Matthews and Weber State's Jamie Martin to name two. And even the Washington Hedskins, who normally pick a quarterback to redshirt for the future, went through the draft without taking one. 
Why? 
Because free agency after four years won't give teams time to develop quarterbacks -by the time marginal draft picks are ready to play, they will be free to peddle the talents developed by one team to someone else. Hight now. veterans like Jay Schroeder, Mike Pagel and Don Majkowski are on the market, more proven commodities as backups than rookies. and Hubby Brister and Hugh Millen 

-
are available for trade at low price. Millen. in fact. went to Dallas on Monday. 
But a shorter draft and free agency doesn't necessarily mean the draft is obsoletn. 
"If they're good players, if they're what we hope they arc and what we think they are ­then we'II have satisfied some ruwds," Bobby Beathard, gen­eral manager of the San Diego Chargers, said of his draft picks. 
But free agency did change priorities. 
Most teams, for example, went into the draft having filled some needs with wteran free agents. At the same time, they had new needs created when free agents left and drafted to fill them. 

example, lost their top two pass rushers, Tim Harris to Philadelphia and Pierce Holt to Atlanta. They got a first­rounder back by trading Joe Montana to Kansas City, traded down twice in the first round and ended up with two defen­sive linemen they hope can re­place Harris and Holt -Dana Stubblefield of Kansas and Todd Kelly of Tennessee. 
"I feel pretty good about these players or we wouldn't have drafted them," 49ers coach George Seifert said. "They fill needs that we have and they're quality players for their particular positions." 
Other teams didn't necessarily fill specific needs. 
But where in other years. they'd have to deal or sign transient free agents to fill them. they now can go back into the free agent po.ol. 
Green Bay, for example, didn't get the wide receiver it needs to complement Sterling Sharpe, who led the league in receiving last season despite no threat on the other side. 
But the Packers still have a number of options ·on the free­agent market -Mark Clayton of the Dolphins. Eric Martin of the Saints and Stephen Baker of the Giants to name three. 
And some teams didn't worry about their lack of draft picks. 
"We're very excited and pleased to announce the Chiefs exercised their first-round se­lection for quarterback Joe Montana of Notre Dame and David Whitmore. a defensive back from Stephen F. Austin," Chiefs president Carl Peterson said. 
But Peterson added: 

"Normally I value draft choices very, very much and most other teams do. This was a special situation." 
It sure was. 

Just ask the college quarter­backs. 


T E  c H N 0 L  0 G  y  
for  H c R  0 E-· M I  H  
·.;.··:=·  

he Office. of u_niv~rs.ityCo_ mput_i~~ invites the. ~otre
•.•.TDame, Samt Marys,· and Holy· Cross cornmunmes to attend this Spring serie5of presentations on the educational uses of computer and media technologies. 
Spring Series. 
Electronic. Publishing II: CD-ROM as a 
Publishing Hedi~m· ·April 28th, 1993 •3:3f!ili-5:00~M Dt!Bariolo Hall, Room 141 (Pieast note the room change) 
A continuation of the session presented in the Fall series exploring electronic publishing. CD-ROM is becoming a popular medium for distribution oftext,large databases, and multimedia publications. Microsoft's new Encarta multi­media encyclopedia will be demonstrated. A live audio conference with the Development Lead for Multimedia Publications at Microsoft will follow the demonstration. 

. 

R.au.n.d 8....... · 

~ver Get Somebody 
Totally Wasted! 
IAtr 1, 
p 
111 !rrs
•All At,
l4tr Ar AB 
•IAig 

fRifNO~ DON'f lH fRifNO~ DRIVf DRUNK 
Position 
QB Los Angeles Rams RB Washington DB 

·New Orleans TE 
Demetrius DuBose Tampa Bay LB 
Reggie Brooks Wahington RB 
107 Devon McDonald Indianapolis LB 
130 Lindsay Knapp Kansas City G 
ZOO braig Hentrich New York Jets K 
The Observer/ Chri• Mullins 

' BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAl~ SALES • 
~Fe»~ (lJ c 
<{ 
0 

(/) 
(j) 
[!!. 

u <{ NOTRE DAME ~ (!) t:u FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
0 
:::::> 
' 


CD • IUIEIUIBE RS ~ 
(/) (lJ
"l' ~
Are Invited To ASale From aud:et Car Sales i~!d N~tre Dame ~ Federal Credit Un•on ~
ISATURDAY ~ 

WtDHESDAY ITHURSDAY APRil MAY 
APRil APRil 1st (lJ c 
!w!~~~8~,
This is not a cheG tne hours shown For llchose-Valid when is valid only du~%iseount coupon perc0rsed by cus1orner ontv\ u~rt b~saes rnonoger on~~~ Ewires 5/1/93 siQn ExclUdes adVertiSed soe 
(/) 
w 

• 100% FINANONG<{ 
(/) 

_j OAVAIIABU! 
[!!. 

NO ..oN.V DOVWN * 
<{ 

() EX'I'DJDED 
1­
w 

SERVICE 
(!) 

0 CONTRACT 
:::::> Available On Most Mortelsl CD 
(lJ
TOP DOLLAR 
c
FOR YOUR 0 
TRADE-IN~---1 FIIANa RATES AS LOW AS ~ 8 0 %*~
• APR F,:;
(f) 

• OTHER RATES AND TERMS TO 60 MONTHS ALSO AVAilABLE ' ~ ' WITH APPROVED CREDIT ON SELECTED MODELS g? 
IF= !!!~!!U~!~efl 
~ • 124 E.IRELAND~ 
~ (US 31 & IRELAND, THE OLD BRITE WAY) ~ 
gSOUTH BEND·(219)299-1444 ~ 
~ (Telephone No. cornected c::Urg 9CIIIe, arty) ::;:; ::l Budget sells rental fleet cars. pre-owned cars and qual1ty trade·.ns Cfl 
~ 
. 

• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SA.LES 

.. ,... ,

L•·a.tt, '~( t1rt· ---~.1~[;· 
Tuesday, April 27, 1993 The Observer page 21 
NFL draft -continued yesterday with few surprises Heisman Trophy winner Torretta goes in 7th round to Minnesota 
NEW YORK (AP) -If there was a change in the NFL draft in the first year of free agency, it was a subtle one. 
After quarterbacks went 1-2 in Sunday's draft for the first time in 22 years, teams got down to the basics. As in most years, the big guys went quickly -a half dozen offensive linemen in the first 19 picks and an equal number of defensive linemen in the first round. 
"It's always a dance of the elephants," general manager George Young of the New York Giants said after the first round. "You got five offensive tackles that go. All the big guys go, whether they're linebackers or defensive linemen. They always go early." 
There were no surprises at the top other than the trade by the New Orleans Saints of linebacker Pat Swilling, the 1991 defensive MVP, to Detroit. In return, the Saints got the eighth overall pick in the draft, which they used on offensive tackle Willie Roaf of Louisiana Tech. 
Drew Bledsoe, the Washington State quarterback, went to New England and Rick Mirer of Notre Dame to Seattle. Bill Par­cells, the Patriots' new coach, said Bledsoe had been his team's first choice all along, although he considered both Mirer and a trade. 
Teams like Atlanta, Houston, Washington, Philadelphia, San Francisco and Indianapolis drafted specifically to fill holes lost by defecting free agents, and there were seven first­round trades -six swaps of draft position, the seventh one the Swilling deaL 
But there were others who 
went to the best available ath­lete theory, like Pittsburgh, which needs linebackers, had plenty of defensive backs and still went for cornerback Deon Figures of Colorado. 
"When you're drafting 23rd in the first round, you don't al­ways have the luxury of doing that," Steelers coach Bill Cowher said. 
The draft resumed today, when New England opened the fifth round by selecting kicker Scott Sisson of Georgia Tech. 
Heisman Trophy winner Gino Torretta of Miami was taken in the seventh round by Min­nesota. He was the fifth quar­terback selected in the draft, and 192nd player overall. 
Sunday was a typical draft day. After Bledsoe and Mirer, no quarterbacks went until Washington's Billy Joe Hobert went to the Los AHgeles Raiders on the last pick of the second round and was the only other quarterback picked in Sunday's four rounds. · 
But there were predictable moves by the usual suspects: 
-Dallas coach Jimmy John­son, who couldn't sit still when he had multiple high draft choices from the Herschel Walker trade, couldn't sit still again. 
With the 29th and last pick in the first round after winning the Super Bowl, he traded it away for three later choices. Then his first two picks came from the college he used to coach -wide receiver Kevin Williams and linebacker Darrin Smith of Miami, who will join a half-dozen other ex-Miami players on the Cowboys. 
-San Diego's Bobby Beat­hard, who never met a first­round pick he wanted, got stuck 
WE'VE JUST HIRED SOME EXCEPTIONAL TALENT. 
Karen Houk Ida Sandoval Frank Bellafante Christina Krakowiecki 
The Travelers is proud to announce that the students listed above will be joining us as new employees this year. 
Whether m . information systems, employee benefits, operations management, telecommunications, finance, actuarial or one of our other entry level positions or training programs, we look forward to the contribution these talented individuals will make to our business. 
We'd like to thank all of you who interviewed with us. And we wish the best of luck to all of this year's graduates. 
TheTravelerJ,ic' 
You're better off under the umbrella.® 
© 1993 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
with taking Stanford defensive back Darrien Gordon with his first pick. 
But Beathard, who had just one No. 1 in his dozen years in Washington, made up for it in the second round by trading to San Francisco next year's top pick to move up and take run­ning back Natrone Means of North Carolina. That was a reprise of what he did two years ago when he traded his 1992 No. 1 to the Redskins to move up in the second round for guard Eric Moten and that pick turned out to be Desmond Howard. 
Parcells' choice of Bledsoe 
· was hardly a surprise. But un­like Troy Aikman, who was made an instant starter in 1989, when Johnson took him No. 1 for a 3-13 Dallas team, Bledsoe may not be an instant starter. 
"In the final analysis, we thought Bledsoe had a little more ability to throw the ball effectively," Parcells said. "But I promise you I will not throw him to the wolves and he will not play until he's ready to play." 
Mirer went No. 2 and was happy to be going west rather than east. 
Then Phoenix swapped places with the New York Jets and took Georgia running back Garrison Hearst; the Jets took linebacker Marvin Jones of Florida State and Cincinnati took Alabama defensive line­man John Copeland. 
Eric Curry, the other Alabama defensive end, went to Tampa Bay; Chicago took USC wide re­ceiver Curtis Conway; the Saints took Roaf; Atlanta took offensive tackle Lincoln Kennedy and the Los Angeles Rams took Notre Dame running back Jerome Bettis, one of four Fighting Irish players taken in the first round. That was one short of the record set by Southern California in 1968. 
With the 11th pick, Denver took defensive end Dan Williams of Toledo; the Raiders took safety Patrick Bates of Texas A&M; Houston took tackle Brad Hopkins of Illinois, Cleveland took center Steve Everitt of Michigan and Green Bay took Clemson linebacker Wayne Simmons. 
Then Indianapolis took Cali­fornia wide receiver Sean Dawkins; Washington took Notre Dame cornerback Tom Carter; Phoenix took South ... Carolina tackle Ernest Dye; Philadelphia took Jackson State tackle Lester Holmes and New Orleans took Notre Dame tight end Irv Smith. 
Minnesota then took running back Robert .Smith of Ohio State; the Chargers took Gor­don; the Steelers chose Figures; Philadelphia took defensive tackle Leonard Renfro of Colorado; Miami took Penn State wide receiver O.J. Mc­Duffie; San Francisco took de­fensive linemen Dana Stubble­field of Kansas and Tood Kelly of Tennessee; Buffalo took de­fensive back Thomas Smith of North Carolina and Green Bay finished the round with Al­abama defensive back George Teague. 
page 22 The Observer Tuesday, April27, 1993 
changeup along with great lo­hard with her new batting cation. stance.
Seniors 

Notre Dame Softball Seniors 
"The key word for Staci is "That was a big adjustment that she's a competitor," con­for her, and she's done a good
continued from page 24 

tinued Miller. "Other teams look job," noted coach Miller. "She's 

Staci Alford (P) Sheri Quinn (DH) 
at her physically and think 'no really a versatile player." 
year. Her understanding of 
1.43ERA 
Out due to l!lnessf

way', but she gets it done." "I've made the greatest
certain situations has really 

7-5 helped our team during her ca­
friends playing softball," said 
4 Saves

"It's changed since my Lisa Miller. "We've grown upreer. She's been the liaison be­freshman year," realized Alford. together with the program. The 
57 StrikeOuts 
tween the players and the staff "When I look back at the seniors have made this year'sall year." 

program our freshman year squad so close, because we're"On the field, Ronny's worked and see how much we've im­such good friends." 
Lisa Miller (OF) 

~:;ey Mc~Murray
(~H/lB)
hard all year," continued Miller. 

proved, I can't wait to ·see how"She got herself in good shape 
.248 ~·

we'll look in four years. It will Casey McMurray, the Irish's 
8 RBI's 5 RBI's '
physically and that's made a be incredible, we'll be a na­designated player throughoutmajor difference in her game." 

6 Doubles 8 Stolen Bases .
tional power." her final season, hails from
"This is the closest team 

''I've become such good Monticello, Ind. She has a .287
we've ever had during my four friends with the seniors on the batting average this year, alongyears," said Alvarez. "It doesn't team and I've had so many with eight RBI and six doubles. 

Ronny Alvarez (OF) Debbie Boulac (3B) 
seem like we won't be back. 

good experiences," she added. "We've been close since day one "She came back this year 
Out due to~
.190 

#'
5 Stolen Bases · ,.
"We're real supportive of each 

freshman year." after a disappointing seasonother, but it's really hard to end 
12 Runs Scored 

last year and got herself in
it," she added. "We know 

Another senior who has great physical shape," realized
everything about each other 

flanked Alvarez in the outfield Miller. "She was much strongerbecause of the amount of time over the past four years is Lisa mentally throughout the year 
The Observer I Chris Mullins 
we've spent with each other 

Miller. Miller, who hails from and it really helped her. She's confidence when we step on the Both seniors have recoveredduring our four years." 
Alford, another co-captain from Baton Rouge, LA, boasts one of the best changeups in the country. She has compiled a career record of 47-26 and ranks second in total games pitched with 113. This year, she has a record of 7-5 and a 1.43 ERA 
"Everybody else in the coun­try would love to have a pitcher like Staci on their staff," noted coach Miller. "She has a great Gahanna, 011, has played all over the outfield during her ca­reer. Offensively, Miller holds the Irish record for stolen bases with 34. This year, she has batted .248 with a new batting stance. Previously, she was a slap hitter from the left side, but this year, she has batted right handed with success. 

"She has one of the strongest arms in the outfield," said coach Miller. "She's worked real been a contributing factor to our team offensively, and she's done a great job during her career." 
"It seems like every year we get closer and closer," said McMurray. "The 18 people on the team all know we have a job to do, and we use everybody's ability." 
"It's been real exciting to see the program grow," she con­tinued. "We have a lot more field now as compared to when we were freshman." 
The final two seniors, Deb Boulac and Sheri Quinn have missed most of the spring sea­son because of injury. 
Boulac, a third baseman from St. Joseph's High in South Bend, IN, injured her leg during the winter and has worked valiantly to regain her previous form. She had played in 150 games before this year as a three year starter at third. This year, she has appeared in one game without an at bat. 
Quinn, a designated hitter from Edison. NJ. has battled a severe case of mono throughout the semester. She has appeared in six games this year, but has gone hitless in six at bats. She has a career .273 batting average and has hit five home runs in her career. 
Softball 
continued from page 24 

Notre Dame will rely on Ko­bata, senior Staci Alford and Carrie Miller to carry the pitch­ing load for the doubleheader. 
"We've had some down games this year," said coach Miller. "We can't afford to have a down game today." 
Northern has been one of the most dominant teams in the Midwest in recent years, but Notre Dame has improved drastically and hopes to knock off the Huskies. 
"Notre Dame is not only a re­cruiting rival, but a regionally and hope to finish out their ca­reers on a high note in the MCC tournament. 
"It's been very difficult all year with the situation they've been in," commented Miller. "They've done everything pos­sible that they could have done to get back in the lineup. It will be real difficult to do this late in the season, but I'll take it one day at ~.time and see what happens. 
"I missed playing ball, but I really missed my friends on the team," said Quinn. "I want to go out playing and leave with the feeling that I finished on a good note." 
"I had a great time playing ball for Notre Dame," she con­tinued. ''I'm proud to say that I've played for four years, and I'll really miss it." 
rated team looking to move up at our expense," said North­ern's coach Dee Abrahamson. "We want to hold onto our rat­ing and that means we don't want to lose to anyone." 
"Our kids are excited to play, but their stressed out because of all their other school com­mitments," she continued. "We seem to get fired up for big games. Hopefully, our team will be mentally ready to play two strong games." 
After today, the Irish will face UIC in Chicago on Thursday, and then return home to face Indiana State on Saturday at 2 
p.m.. 



There's only one way to come out ahead of the pack. 

t American Heart Association
O
IMT<£ FIGHTII\G Fa? 'O.JRLIFE 

•1 I 4 Mile from Library  •Washer & Dryer Units  
•Brand New Appliances  • Large Closets  
•2 Bedrooms  •Covered Parking  
•2 Bathrooms  •Security System  

•Large Balconies CALL Now FOR APPOINTMENTS 272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 er month 
Today 
Tuesday, April 27, 1993 page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 
THIS IS RIDICULOUS I THE 
COLLOQUY FOR THE. Yf.AR 
2000'S DfSIRE TD HIRE 
ALL CATHOLIC FACULT"' 
HA~ SLoPPED OV£-!< Til OUR SIRIP1 W€'1/E LOST SKIP 13f"CAUSE HE:'S PRESB'{T0<1AN, 
OUR RE51 
GtVS-2.0 
IMISTAN0"j1.1~--;--­
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
You'RE 1'/0f CATHOLIC, WUAT? IM FIRW7 ARE You, HANI< 7 BuT ntiS S"TRIP IS N AME'D AFTER M&!l 
BILL WATIERSON 
l'LL \J\E<J( \We. Tl-it:Rts MORt: 'STf>..T\'S\ICS, IM 10 T\-1\C:, I \lOl--l\ 1\-\\N.'<. WORliJ \l\~t'l 11-\1\T 1-\~?I>El'-IS jUST PEoi'L£, 

@ 1t> MP-1\l'< '(QIJ KNOW . \>EOPl£. 
427­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Growl 5 Atlas items 9 Defeats 
14 Superb 15 Mine entrance 16 Palmer of golf 11 Part of W.Va. 19 Cattle catcher 20 Protect 21 Warehouse 23 "Do I dare to 
--peach?"· T S E. 24 Molybdentte. e.g. 25 Groups of seven 28 Decamps for romance 
\-\OW /'l..~l. "DoN.\-LOOK INTO Cf'l..R \-\U,\)\.\G\-\\5 At-1.\l FR(t.:z:~., ~t.CMlSE '{()l'Ll E\~t.R GEl R~N. O~t.ROR 
S\10\!" 
33 Money unit of Macao 34 Remaining fragments 37 Single guy 38 Belongs 40 "--pro nobis" 41 "To Live and Die " 
42 Marion's ending? 43 Stiffen, in a way 46 Toast spread 47 Scamp 49 Court for heirs 51 Beat pounder 53 Kind of corner 54 Remedies 59 Repaired 62 High society 


63 Musical medley 65 Occupied. as a seat 66 Toward shelter 
at sea 67 Coffee holders 68 Sacchartne 69 Advance 10 V.I.P. at college 
DOWN 
1 Discrepancies 2 Ark builder 3 "Designing 
Women" cast member 
4 Warm up again 5 Order 6 Tally 7 Mound a Court reporter 
9 Gun tube 
10 Gannon University location 
11 Crack 12 Josip Broz 13 Ensconce 18 Change 22----bien 25 Less dangerous 26 Long-running 
Broadway hit 
27 Berth 

29 Japanese cummerbund 30 Pretentious official 31 Fanfare 

32 Embarrassment 35 Retirement-plan letters 36 Complam 
39 N.Y.S E watchdog 43 ---gin fizz 

44 Confining 45 Similar: Comb. 
form 48 Emphasis 50 Paralyze 

52 Pertaining to 57 To-­the Vatican 
(perfectly) 54 Favorites 58 Exclusive 55 "There oughta 
60 Therefore

be--!" 
61 Kind of jockey 

56 Greek goddess of victory 
64 Sawbuck 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
... '·~~1~-\ DroP Your Shorts! · -~:~~) oo Not Do '·,_',~~ laundrY in 1993! ~ Brim! it to us instead! DroP off vour laundrY in the~ J morning.Pick if UP the same afternoon!  haircut coupon High I SAVE $1.00quality I . I reg. $8 low cost hcur care I WET CUT What makes We Care Hair better lwith this couoon than those other salons? 1expires: 5/4/93 We Care about You! You get great haircuts & ··-----------­. 11 1 · 0 I haircut coupon 1qua tty perms, a at ow pnces. ur 1 SAVE difference? We offer great service-I $2.00 guaranteed! I reg. $l3-$lSI SHAMPOO, CUT & we c.are hair 1 STYLE I with this coupon 1811 SOUTH BEND AVE. 271--7674 lexpires: 5/4/9 3SOUTH BEND, IN 46637  


Sports 
-<--=t­

page 24 Friday, April~993 
Irish ball teams take to the diamond this afternoon 
Baseball hosts Valparaiso in 2 games 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame baseball team (25-1 0) has a tough week ahead including games against Indiana State, Indiana and De­troit Mercy, hut that week starts this afternoon with a doubleheader against Valparaiso (4-27). 
The Crusaders got off to a less than stellar start this year losing the first 20 games of their season to the likes of Nevada. Purdue, Indiana State and Western Michigan, but have begun to turn things around only losing by more
' 
than four runs in one game out of the last 11. 
"It's the biggest game of the year for them," said Irish head coach Pat Murphy who has found himself saying that about most teams that play Notre Dame this spring. "They've played a whole lot better than their record indicates." 
The Irish are coming off a disappointing series against Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Evansville in which Notre Dame lost two and won only one. 
"We didn't come to Evansville with a great passion for the game," said Murphy. "You can't just show up and think you're going to win." 
With its losing record, Valparaiso might be a hard team to get psyched up for, but the Crusaders could be dangerous. Led by outfielder Jeff Grimm who is hitting .316 with six doubles, Valparaiso's offense features some decent hitters. Second baseman Jeff Haymond (.286, 17 walks). third baseman Jason York (.235, 14 HB!s) and outfielder Todd Fitzgerald (.233, 10 HBis) will contribute at the plate for the Crusaders. 

On the mound, Jeff Brooks (1-5, 3.97 ERA) and Ben Yeggy (1-5, 6.88 ERA) will most likely start for Valparaiso while Tom Guse (4.74, 1 save) will come in to close the games. 
For Notre Dame, AI Walania (1-2, 5.97 EHA) and Tim Kraus (0-1, 9.78) will start the games on the mound for the Irish. 
Hitting continues to be the consistent strength of the Irish. Seniors Eric Danapilis (.479, 50 RB!s, 11 HR) and Eddie Hartwell (.416, 30 RB!s) will lead Notre Dame from the plate along with the six other players hitting over .300. 
Hyan Topham, Greg Layson, Paul Failla, Craig DeSensi and Rowan Hichards are the others hitting over .300 and are closely followed by Hobbie Kent and Matt Haas. 
Nonetheless, injuries continue to plague the Irish and lineup changes are expected. 
"We're banged up as usual, but we've got to come out ready to play," said Murphy. The Observer/ David Hungeling 
Irish pitcher AI Walania, shown here last year, will start against the Crusaders tonight. 
Softball meets ranked Northern Illinois team 

... 
The Observer/ Sean Farnan 
Irish sophomore Liz Goetz and the rest of the Notre Dame softball 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team returns home today after a grueling stretch of weekend games. They will face nationally­ranked Northern Illinois at 3 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Over the rain-soaked weekend at Evansville, the Irish split two games with Midwestern Collegiate Conference rival Detroit Mercy 1-0 and 4-3, while their games with Evansville were rained out. They improved their record to 26-12. 
Freshman Terri Kobata beat the Titans in the first game to improve her record to 12-3 and extend her scoreless inning streak to 44. During the streak, she has allowed seven hits, one walk and has struck out 77. 
"Terri continued to pitch very well," noted coach Liz Miller. "The weather conditions weren't ideal, but they're a good hitting team." 
Kobata limited Detroit to four hits and tied her school record with 15 strikeouts. 
Notre Dame scored the winning run in the fourth inning on junior Christy Connoyer's single, followed by sophomore Andrea Keys' HBI single. 
In the second game, the Irish lost for the first time in nine games. Junior pitcher Carrie Miller gave up three hits and two runs in four innings, and took the loss. The hitting stars for the Irish were junior Stephanie Pinter, who went 3 for 3 with a run batted in. Sophomore Sara Hayes added two hits and senior Lisa Miller had a double. 
Coach Miller attributed the loss to a combination of things. "We had one error that cost us, but they had some key hits at the right time," she commented. "Most of the balls we hit went right at them, and their shortstop robbed us so many times." 
As for today's game, Northern Illinois comes into the game ranked 12th in the nation and number two in the region. The Huskies are 30-11 overall, with a 9-1 MCC record. They are led by senior outfielder Hee Zenner (.378) and senior first baseman Dawn Worden (.365). Their pitching leader is senior Tracy Meade, who has pitched 135.7 innings in 24 appearances. She has a record of 14-6 with 144 strikeouts and a 1.44 EHA. 
"They're a very strong team, and they've been playing better this year than in the past," said coach Miller. "They're strong in all areas. They've played great competition this year, while not playing any down games." 
Six seniors nostalgic about their four years 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
Throughout this season, the Notre Dame softball team has relied on their six seniors to provide leadership to their young team. The six seniors who remain on the squad have grown up together as the team has developed into a nationally known program. Today's home game marks the beginning of the final stretch in the careers of seniors Honny Alvarez. Staei Alford, Lisa Miller, Casey Mc­Murray. Sheri Quinn, and Deb Boulae. 
When the group speaks about their time at Notre name, words like friendship, support and doseness come straight to their minds. Their time nears the end on the softball field, but their friendships will remain forever. 
"I told the !>eniors in the fall that I really needed their leadership in many ways because it was my 11rst year," said coach Liz Miller. "They certainly didn't let me down, because they have done a great job. I don't believe we would have had any chance to do as woll as we did without our seniors." 
Alvarez, a co-captain from Temperance, MI has been a fixture in the outfield for four years. She ranks third on the Irish all time list in total games played with 189 and third in runs scored with 66. She has 15 hits on the year. and has stolen five bases. In the outfield, she has committed only one error in 30 chanees. 
"She's been the spokesman between the players and the new coaching stafi all year," said coach Miller. "She's always been positive throughout the 
team meet a nationally ranked Northern Illinois squad. 
SMC SPORTS Track and softball teams finish seasons. 

see page 19 


see SOFTBALL I page 22 
see SENIORS I page 22 
O[t!J~DliDrn SPORTS 
PRO FOOTBALL 

PRO BASEBALL 
®

Complete draft coverage. 
Tigers roaring through • -.· league. . see page 21 see page 18 ,
11 











