

Friday, November 5, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 44 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Project to help beautifyNE South Bend 
By SUNNY BYERS News Writer 
Saturday marks the first Fall Festival cleanup project, an effort aimed at rejuvenating the neighborhood in northeast South Bend by cleaning up the yards of elderly residents there 
The goal behind this project is to help the elderly residents who have trouble keeping up their yards. 
The problem is not just because of the age factor, but the growing crime rate in the neighborhood, which often keeps them in their houses, according to Student Body Vice-President Nicole Well­mann. 
Volunteers will haul trash, rake leaves, and replant 10,000 tulip, daffodil and hyacinth bulbs donated by Notre Dame's landscape services department. 
So far, 400 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and pro­fessors have signed up. 
After the cleanup, a block party is planned, with enter­tainment including a Gospel choir performance. Infor­mation booths will be set up and food and refreshments will be served. 
The project is sponsored by Student Government and the Northeast Neighborhood Center with help from the Center for Social Concerns, Campus Ministry, and the Office of Community Relations. 
For more information, call Student Government at 631­7668. 

The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall 
Making progress for business 
Construction workers continue work on new business building behind DeBartolo Hall yesterday. 


Chicago tour to examine city's diversity 
By NANCY DUNN 
News Writer 

A new perspective and deep­er understanding of the ethnic and economic diversity in Chicago is the goal of the Sociology Club's annual cultur­al diversity tour this Sunday. 
The trip is to educate indi­viduals about ethnic groups, economic strata and consumer buying habits in an entertain­ing way, said Associate Professor of Sociology Richard Lamanna. 
The trip offers "a fun version 
of an Urban Plunge," said Lamanna. 
To gain an awareness of cul­tural diversity participants will visit several ethnic neighbor­hoods inchiding Italian, Polish, Puerto Rican, Mexican, Greek, and Irish communities. 
"It concentrates on the cul­tural diversity of the big city," said Lamanna. 
Observing different economic strata within the city, the group will visit both housing projects, such as the Robert Taylor Homes and Cabrini Green, and more affluent areas like the 
"Gold Coast" on Michigan Avenue. 
The tour highlights "the plight of the poor" in the hous­ing projects, according to past participant Susan Saavedra of the International Studies Resource Center. 
By learning about the history of various ethnic groups, par­ticipants gain a new perspec­tive and understanding of the city, and "to see Chicago in a way they have never seen it be­fore," said Saavedra. 
see TOUR I page 4 
Goulet: Poor and environment are global concerns 

.j 
TheObserver/ScottMendenhall Denis Goulet lectured yesterday at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
By JEREMY DIXON 
News Writer 

A change in society's attitudes toward the poor and the environment is vital to the survival of the planet, according to faculty fellow and O'Neill Professor of Education for Justice Denis Goulet. 
"Human solidarity must go beyond national borders," Goulet said. 

Nations have several options in pursu­ing economic development. They can develop their countries by exploiting nat­ural resources without regard for the dis­advantaged, or they can adopt a more environmentally aware plan which will benefit all, especially the poor, said Goulet in his lecture yesterday, which was entitled "Debates of Sustainable Development." 
Basing his lecture on a statement by the World Bank that "the achievement of sustained and equitable development remains the greatest challenge facing the human race," Goulet pointed out that there are many different definitions of development, sustainment and wealth. 
Development can be defined in numer­ous ways, including economic growth in which the poor get poorer, growth with equity and redistribution of incomes, or growth to provide everyone basic neces­sities of life, he said. 
Everyone has a different definition, making it harder to address the problems of poverty and the environment, said Goulet. For any sustained development, the entire world must go along with it, 
for if only one nation attempted a new strategy, it would lose in the short run. 
The curbing of world hunger and poverty should be included in any pro­gram for development, Goulet added. Without economic equity, war and chaos will remain the only means for the lower class to voice their opinion. 
Environmental awareness and protec­tion are also vital to any sustained devel­opment, he said. Even if the world population remained constant, the Earth's rain forests and underground water supply would be completely gone in thirty years unless current consump­tion patterns change. 
The most difficult problem facing soci­eties who want to change is how to gain the support of people and businesses who profit from the status quo, he said. These are the special interests who have much leverage in dictating government and economic policy. 
Further complicating the problem is that there are even more definitions of wealth. Goulet quoted Brazilian author Carolina Maria de Jesus, who lived in poverty her entire life, who said that wealth is when "the basic necessities must be within reach of everyone." 
Other definitions place emphasis on possession of material goods, while some believe in striving only for good physical and spiritual health. These definitions determine society's priorities, he said. 
The lecture at the Hesburgh Peace Center was sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
ND telecast to feature Janet Reno 
By SARAH DORAN Assistant News Editor 

Attorney General Janet Reno will participate, via satellite, in a nationwide interactive tele­cast exploring American family life, produced by the Notre Dame Alumni Association and scheduled to air Sunday after­noon. 
The program, entitled "Home Improvement: Building Family Esteem," is the eighth in the biannual interactive series "The American Family: A Challenged Tradition" which began in 1988. 
"The programs suit both a community service and educa­tional purpose," said Kathleen Sullivan, director of alumni continuing education. "They are an excellent way for Notre Dame to share its resources with communities across the country, and, as a fringe bene­fit, a great way for students and parents to see what the University stands for." 
More than 1000 schools, 20 million cable viewers, 150 church groups, and 200 alumni clubs will have access to the telecast, she said. 
Sunday's program represents a breakthrough for the series as it is the first time satellite technology will be used to bring together a national figure and prominent experts in a dis­cussion, said Sullivan. Past programs have included local figures only. 
The program will explore ways to build esteem and culti­vate resiliency and hope in today's family, and paths to pursue in order to keep chil­dren away from domestic and street violence, she said. 
Reno was asked to appear on the telecast because of her interest in the topic and highly visible position to promote the outreach that the alumni asso­ciation encourages by pro­ducing such shows, she said. 
Other guests on the program will include Adele Faber and Elaine Mazlish, authors of "How To Talk So Kids Will Listen and Listen So Kids Will Talk," Miguel Franco, assistant professor of psychology at Notre Dame, Ruth Warren, liai­son for parents education with the South Bend School Corporation, Augustus Jordan, a South Bend psychologist spe­cializing in family therapy and child depression, and Mary Roemer, a South Bend thera­pist in private practice. 
Many of the sites where the program is to be aired will offer .follow-up discussions led by psychologists and social workers, according to Sullivan. An educational packet with further information on the top­ics to be covered by the pro­gram will be distributed at the sites. Copies of the video will also be available later for $25. 
The series is sponsored by the Alumni Association and Sunday's telecast also will re­ceive funding from Ronald McDonald Children's Charities. 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


'Haley': a true.-. story ofND tnsptratton 
It is a story about hope. It is a story about strength and courage. It is a story about never giving up and giving your all. It is the story about Notre Dame-a place where dreams can come true. 
Just ask Rudy. 
But when the camera crews pack up, the last credits 
Meredith

role, and Holy Cross 
McCullough

College goes back to being good old O'Shaughnessy, 
News Editor Notre Dame will still have a story to tell-one that Daniel "Rudy" Ruettiger has no part of. Fifty some years after the making of "Knute Rockne All-American," the University agreed to bring Hollywood to campus once more, and "Rudy: A True Story" arrived. In another fifty years maybe Notre Dame will be ready to share a story really worth telling. There will be no football stars in this story. No side-line name chants. No evil coaches. No 27 sec­onds of fleeting glory. Rather, it is the story of a talented young girl who conquered a tragic situation in a most amazing way. It is the story of Haley Scott-a true inspira­tion and Notre Dame hero. The story of Rudy may have come as a surprise to a good percentage of current Notre Dame students. Until word of the making of the film reached cam­pus, few-if any-of us had ever heard of this Notre Dame legend. Many alums who were in school during the 70s were slow to remember the Rudy story. But Haley's story has touched the lives of the immediate Notre Dame family in a real, concrete way. The bus accident that came close to paralyz­ing Haley Scott and that took the lives of two of her swimmates was one that rocked the entire campus less than two years ago. In a backwards sort of way, this tragedy did more for the spirit of Notre Dame than any football game could have ever done. During the days following the accident, the University-students, faculty, administration-came together beautifully in a flood of support and love. And while life has con­tinued on campus, the team has not been forgotten. The story of Haley and all that goes with it is one that has been kept close. Haley Scott has been truly inspirational. While some Notre Dame students surely relate to Rudy's financial and academic struggles, few have come face to face with the physical, emotional and psychological obstacles that faced Haley following the accident. Everybody told Rudy he couldn't do it. He wasn't smart enough. He wasn't a good enough athlete. But Rudy never gave up, and he got his 27 seconds in the sun. Haley had both the brains and the talent to attend and play for Notre Dame. And when a twist of fate caused people around her to say she might never swim again, Haley did not give up either-she swam and will keep on swimming. But last weekend's ESPN coverage is probably as close to a feature film about Haley Scott as we. will see anytime soon. She doesn't seem to be interest­ed. 
"My mom tells me that I should write a book about my experience," Haley told an Observer reporter earlier this week. "I don't want to write a book. I just want to swim." 
Still, if someone tells you dreams can't come true, tell them about Haley. It's a much better story. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those o the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Accent Emily Hage Elisabeth Heard 

David Clairmont Bevin Kovalik Viewpoint Graphics Allison Ebd Brendan Regan 
Lab Tech Etc. Eric Ructhiing Chris Weirup Production Elisabeth Heard Christopher Mullins 
Sports 
Vivian Gembara Jason Kelly 

The Oh>crver (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhli;hcd Monday through Friday excc.-pl Juring exam and vat..'alion period>. The Observer is a member of the.· Assm.:iatt'd Press. All reproduction rights arC' reserved. 

Dec. 9, 1992: Hundreds of Marines land in Somalia to launch
~ What happened 
Operation Restore Hope, a humanitarian mission. 

= in Somalia? 
Jan. 19, 1993: The first U.S. soldier is killed by Somali gunmen near Landmark dates in the U.S. Mogadishu's airport. involvement in Somalia: March 25: The United Nations adopts a resolution setting up a 
peacekeeping force for Somalia. 
May 4: The United States hands over control of the peacekeeping operation to the multinational U.N. force. 
June 5: Gunmen loyal to warlord Mohammed Farrah Aidid kill 24 Pakistani troops and wound scores more in a series of ambushes. 
June 12: The United States starts retaliatory strikes on Aidid's militia with an aerial assault on one of his weapons caches. 
Aug. 8: Four U.S. soldiers are killed when a landmine is detonated under their vehicle, prompting President Clinton to order the Army Rangers to Somalia. 
Aug. 12: 400 Rangers begin arriving in Somalia, their mission to capture Aidid. 
Sept. 28: Clinton announces he wants a date certain for an end to 
the U.S. and U.N. mission in Somalia. 
Oct. 3: 18 American troops are killed and scores wounded in a failed raid to capture Aidid. 
Oct. 7: Clinton announces that U.S. troops will leave Somalia March 31, 1994 and that until then the United States, with the help of East African nations, will try to restore the political process in Somalia. 
Oct. 25: Fighting resumes between rival warlords in Mogadishu, 
breaking a 19-month ceasefire. 
AP!Tom Holmes 

Marines leave as elders discuss security NRA appeals through United Way 
MOGADISHU MORGANTOWN, W.Va.
About 3,600 American sailors and Marines sailed away The National Rifle Association is encouraging members toThursday in a sign of confidence that security is improv­donate to the organization through the United Way, dis­ing for U.N. peacekeeping troops in Somalia's bloodied turbing some United Way officials. "There are so manycapital. Somali clan leaders and U.N. officials, mean­important matters that need to be addressed," said Petewhile, met to discuss ways to improve security and keep Prokopchuk of the United Way group in Morgantown.
tensions down in the city. The turnout was better than a "People eating, getting shoes on their feet, clothing and ameeting a week earlier and included representatives of 
warm place to live seem like a better place for the
Mogadishu's two main factions. The departing Marines money." The NRA Foundation, the NRA's fund-raisingnever came ashore after arriving as support following an arm, says it's just as worthy as other nonprofit groupsOct. 3 battle in which 18 U.S. soldiers died fighting sup­supported by the United Way and that many of its 3.3
porters of Mohamed Farrah Aidid. The bloodshed led million members have been making donations that wayWashington to rein in military operations and step up for years. The United Way's 2,100 autonomous organiza­efforts for a political solution to Somalia's clan conflict. 
tions collect donations and distribute them to thousandsThe arrival of U.S. Army soldiers, Abrams tanks and of local charities. 
Bradley armored vehicles over the last two weeks permit­ted the deployment of the Marines elsewhere, a U.S. mili­
Packwood transcriber on payroll
tary spokesman, Col. Steve Rausch, said. There are now 7,500 U.S. troops in Mogadishu, bolstered by 30 M1-A1 WASHINGTONtanks and 42 Bradley Fighting Vehicles, the Pentagon Federal election records show the woman who tran­said. 
scribed the diaries that Sen. Bob Packwood described as "very, very personal" was on his campaign payroll from
Nurses duped by MetLife 
1989-91. Cathy Wagner Cormack received at least $16,666 from the campaign between January 1989 and
TAMPA July 1991, some $5,000 to $6,000 annually during thatWhen Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. offered a "retire­period, according to reports Packwood, R-Ore., filed withment plan" to thousands of nurses around the country, the Federal Election Commission. The payments wereits agents delivered a carefully scripted pitch and sent described as going for "secretarial services," with themailings with pictures of Snoopy. Nowhere in all the talk 
exception of a Jan. 13, 1989, disbursement for $2,400of annuities and pensions was there any mention of what that was listed as "word processing services." It is notthe company was really selling-life insurance. "I grew clear from the records whether any of the compensationup with Snoopy," said Joyce Armbruster, a Largo nurse was directly tied to the diaries. The Senate votedwho says she was duped and is suing MetLife. "I never Tuesday to seek a court order to obtain the diaries in itsthought Snoopy would do this." The misrepresentation of 
ethics investigation of Packwood. Bobbi Munson,
high-commission, whole life insurance policies as savings Packwood's press secretary, said Thursday the senatorvehicles, is common, industry officials say. But seldom had no comment on the campaign payroll report andhas the practice been as widespread as in the case of referred calls to his office in Portland, Ore. 
MetLife. 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 5. 




--------------------~------------~-----------------------­
Female teachers' changing role discussed 
By KIMBERLY BERO News Writer 
Defining and streamlining a "collaborative learning peda­gogy" between professors and students at Saint Mary's was the main topic at the panel dis­cussion, "Gender In The Classroom," the second of a se­ries of four discussions on "Gender Across the Curriculum" held yesterday afternoon in Stapleton Lounge. 
Women in teaching careers often suffer from the perplexing paradox of being "simulta­neously powerful and power­less," said Dr. Carol Lee Freeburg. As teachers move from the role of "'teacher as transmitter' to 'teacher as col­laborator,' students become co­operative rather than competi­tive." 
This solution "enhances stu­
dent confidence and class dis­
cussion, hence the teacher and 
students become equals," she 
added. 
ND Club of New Mexico 
RAFFLE 
~ [F®lW @~~@j 
$1.00 each chance 
call x3865 


Jazz • Funk • Hip Hop • R&B 
vibe mixed as one 

':. :. ::::.::: ':'' '·.': 

ACAREERPATHPAVED WITH SUCCESS! 
CDW® Computer Centers, Inc. has opportunities in Chicago! Begin your oleSSJc•naJ:uJes::~~er 
one of the most successful PC resellers in the advertising and marketing bring the (CDW®receives 5,000 to 7,000 phone calls per qualified buyers). Our service and support 
Account Executives work on the "inside" -­and no cold calling! Excellent frrst-year P~n"'"'"'· extensive training. 
On-Campus In 
Equal 
Teaching "critical thinking and informal logic to women seeking Fine Arts degrees" is essential, according to Dr. Anne Plamondon, Chair of Communications, Dance and Theater, who focused on these departments. 
Though she feels no need to address an all-female class­room differently from a coed classroom, Plamondon said that "the Communications, Dance and Theater Departments have modified their teaching content to make the classes more rele­vant to all-female classes." 
Problem solving was another issue covered by the panel. 
"Female students often face two particular handicaps: they limit themselves through a lack of self confidence, and they tend to attempt to conquer the whole problem instead of ex­amining the component parts," said Dr. Tom Fogle, Chair of the Biology Department. 
She added, however, that 
"confidence is a skill built up 
a•"""·nn• 

over a period of years. Seniors are always more self-confident than freshmen. Also, the changing societal views toward women will foster more self­confidence in future female stu­dents interested in math and science." 
Ms. Lynn Shelley, a 1989 graduate of Saint Mary's and a current fellow in Developmental Psychology at the National Institute, offered a retrospective view of how Saint Mary's prepared her for a pro­fession in the mostly-male National Institute of Health. 
"I learned to speak up at Saint Mary's, to challenge au­thority," said Shelley. "The majority of my classes were small discussion classes that encouraged opinion -sharing," 
Shelly encouraged students to create their own major. "It's important to empower yourself as a woman, to break down the walls that divide you." 
Shelley attributed much of 
her success to her education at 
Saint Mary's. 
"Thanks to the professors at 
Saint Mary's, I learned that it's 
necessary to talk real loud and 
stand up for your opinion to 
survive in a male-dominated 
world," she said. "But the pri­
mary thing I took from Saint 
Mary's was my own personal 
philosophy, and I feel very 
lucky to have had the opportu­
nity to attend a college that 
promotes this to its students." 

Suzanne's !J{ora[ 
See our r.Beautiju{~ses 
RosE SPECIALS 
Lots of Colors  
Located  ,Daily Delivery  
Comer of Ironwood & Edison  ,Student Discount ·  288--7551  

6fe's !JJislro & ~ 5ta l' Q~~~ 
0 0
ACQ; Fo do d :..o~ 
~._ )V' me mmg at mo erate prtces o Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ Theatre Works Playhouse -upstairs at the Bistro 
Ask about catering 257-0400 

THURS., FRI., SAT., NOV. 11, 12, 13 AT 8 P.M. SUN., NOV. 14 AT 2:30P.M. MOREAU CENTER/UTILE THEATRE 
. E!J--­
TICKETS $4 SM'S-ND COMMUNITIES; Samt Mary's College$3 STUDENTS; ON SALE AT THE 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE; INFORMATION, CHARGE ORDERS: 219/284-4626. 

The Observer/ Colleen Moore 

On the airwaves 
Fisher Hall senior Christopher Coppula works as station manager at WSND-FM. His program, Tarelmusik, airs weekdays from 4-6 pm. 
SECURITY BEAT 

TUES. NOV. 2 
9:33am 
An o1f•campus student reported the theft ofhis bookbag from the main IO!Jf'IQe in LaFort\ln.e Student Center While left unat· tended:+
·:tr>;,,. 
11:14am 
SeCUrity responded to a traffic accident on Old Juniper Road involving a South Send Community School bus and a University employee. There were no injuries reported. 
12:03 pill 
A Uruvl}rsity employee reported damage to her.vehi9le which w~s parked in. the B02 parking lot. 
5:40pm 
A Pasquerilla West resident was trans­ported to St Joseph Medical Center for an injury she suffered while playing inteman foolbaQ. 
WED.N0V.3 
11:15pm 
A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of six student football ticket books from an unlocked room. The theft 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND NORTH PADRE/MUSTANG ISLAND 
1-----FoLoOoftoJoDoA ----1 
DA YTONA BEACH PANAMA CITY BEACH ORLANDO/WALT DISNEY WORLD 
1----CoOoLoOoftoAoDoO -----l 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK BRECKENRIDGE/KEYSTONE 
1-----N•EoVoAoJli•A·----1 
LAS VEGAS 
S•O•U•T•H CoAoftoOoL•IoNoA 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW CALL TOLL FRI:E FOR FULL DETAILS AND COLOR BROCHURE! 
1 • BOO •SUNCHASE 


------------------------~----------------------------~ -~ ----­
More Hispanics enrolled in college 
By CAROLE FELDMAN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Like many Hispanic students, Magda Alarcon had to drop out of college when her money ran out. But at 28, she is back in school, one of a steadily grow­ing number of Hispanics in U.S. colleges and universities. Hispanic enrollment in higher education grew 84 percent in the past decade, from 472,000 in 1980 to 86 7,000 in 1991. But it's still the lowest among all minority groups, the American Council on Education said in a report being released Friday. In 1990, 28 percent of Hispanics 25 and older had at­tended college, and 6 percent had received degrees, accord­ing to the report based on sta­tistics from the Census Bureau, the Education Department and other agencies. Among non­Hispanic minorities, 47 percent had some college education and 14 percent graduated. The report said the gains recorded by Hispanics are "dis­proportionately low compared to the sharp increases in their overall population growth." The 1990 Census counted near­ly 22.4 million Hispanics, and they are expected to surpass blacks as the largest minority group in the United States by 2020. "Historically Hispanic students have not had the kinds of opportunities more traditional college students have had in terms of their pre-college preparation," said Diana Natalicio, president of the University of Texas-El Paso. "The challenges they face as 
Tour 
continued from page I 
They will also have a chance to observe the effect of these economic differences on buying habits, contrasting Maxwell Street, an open market run by local ethnic groups, and Watertower Place. a glitzy shopping center in downtown Chicago. 
The city is full of "sharp con­trasts often within close physi­cal proximity," according to 
1:15,3:15,5:15,7:15,9:151 2:15,4:45,7:30, 10:00 
Hispanics in higher education 
Degrees earned by Hispanics, 1991 
First­professional degrees 
Doctoral 
Master's 
Bachelor's 
Associate 

Percentage change in enrollment from 1980 to 1991 Two-year institutions Four year institutions 90% 77%

0 All students Hispanic students
l • 

"'-----------' 

25% 
D 
Enrollment for 1991: 
All students: 5,652,000 Hispanic: 484,000 
Source: American Council on Education 
working-class people often re­quire that they discontinue their education if they do grad­uate from high school." The report found that, in 1991, llispanics, at 51 percent, had the lowest level of high school completion among all races and ethnic groups. The overall high school graduation rate for the 
Lamanna. 
Because the mobility of the residents in these homes is re­stricted by highways, they are forced to shop at neighborhood stores which charge exorbi­tantly high prices, said Saavedra. The poor are being "exploited within their own neighborhoods," she added. 
The trip is open to members of the Notre Dame community, as well as people not affiliated with the University. 
The fee for the trip is $20, which includes dinner at The Greek Islands restaurant. 

15% 
I I 

Enrollment for 1991: 
All students: 8,707,000 Hispanic: 383,000 
AP 
U.S. population as a whole was 79 percent in 1991. 
Alarcon began college right after graduation from high school in 1983. But when her financial aid ran out, she was forced to quit school. Her par­ents, she said, were unable to help out. 
Participants will be expected to provide their own lunches. The group will depart at 9 a.m. and return around 10 p.m. on Sunday. 
Those interested should sign up in the Sociology Department or contact Professor Lamanna at 234-2880. 
\ill~®~~ ~<f 
~ 

UR:BA.N PLUNG.:E @ 
UU11 

R:Ea'LSTR:AT'LON D:E:ADL'LN:E NOV£n:B:ER 8 
REGISTRATION INFORMATION AVAILABLE: 
ND:  ""'Center for Social  
Concerns  
""'Campus Ministry:  
Badin Haff/Hesburgh  
Library  
""'Dorm  Representatives  
SMC:  ,... Multicultural Office  
,...  Campus Ministry  
""'Justice  Education  

Friday, November 5, 1993 

Report says school is ho­hum to gifted children 
By CAROLE FELDMAN 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Many of America's brightest youngsters are bored and un­challenged in school, the Education Department said Thursday in a blistering report. 
"The United States is squan­dering one of its most precious resources -the gifts, talents and high interests of many of its students," the report said. "In a broad range of intellec­tual and artistic endeavors, these youngsters are not chal­lenged to do their best work." 
About 2 million children na­tionwide, 5 percent of enroll­ment, are considered gifted and talented based on standout leadership or academic poten­tial and skills. 
In its first comprehensive study of the subject in 20 years, the department found: 
• 
Gifted and talented elemen­tary school children have mas­tered 35 to 50 percent of the grade curriculum in five basic subject areas before starting the school year. 

• 
Most classroom teachers make few provisions for these children. 

• 
The curriculum offered to top students in the United States is less rigorous than that in other countries. The U.S. stu­dents do less homework, read fewer demanding books and aren't as well prepared to enter the job force. 

• 
Talented poor and minority students suffer the most. 


"As the nation strives to im­prove its schools, the concerns of students with outstanding talents must not be ignored," Education Secretary Richard Riley said in a forward to the report. "All of our students, in­cluding the most able, can learn more than we now ex­pect." 
The report was to be pre­sented Friday at the annual conference of the National Association for Gifted Children. 
"We're saying that we need to raise the standards for all kids, including the gifted and tal­ented kids," said Pat O'Connell Ross, author of the report. "We especially need to pay more at­tention to serving minority and poor children." 
Peter Rosenstein, executive director of the National Association for Gifted Children, said he agreed with the report's findings. 
"What's happened in educa­tion for various reasons ­some of them maybe political, some maybe financial, some maybe societal -is that we have not focused on the needs of gifted and talented children in this country," he said. 
Inclusion is the buzz word these days, said Fred Brown, principal of Boyertown Elementary School in Pennsylvania and president­elect of the National Association of Elementary School Principals. 
"Quite often, gifted children are independent learners and left to their own devices while children with learning disabili­ties are given additional help," he said. 

EDUCATION FORTIIE REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (l\1:\. Ph.D) in lntL'rn;ltional Aff:.1irs \\·ith an ~.:mphasis on conru11porary policy-rekvant 
issu~.:s. 
Area and Functional Fields: 0 Inreram~.:rican Studies (including l:.S.-Latin American Relations) 0 European Studies 0 Post-Soviet Studies 0 Comparative Ikvelopment 0 International Business 0 International Economics 0 International Health Policy 0 International Helations Theory 0 International Securitv and Cont1ict ' 0 Foreign Policy Analysis 
Apply by February 1 for assistantships and other financial aid. 
~ Nqrth·~,q\n!J .c~~f~~ 
Students who are interested in lnteramerican isslll:s are particularly encouraged to apply for North-South Center Graduate Assistantships. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STIJDIES :\clmissions, Koom (\39 



-~---·----~-----~­

~ ---~---~---------------~--------------­
Friday, November 5, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

crease for many Americans under President Clinton's plan. 
"If we fail to pass this plan, 100 percent of Americans will pay higher premiums, because that's where our health costs are going," Panetta said. 
It was more damage control for the White House after crit-Tyson, the chair of the presi­dent's Council of Economic Advisers, told a House Ways and Means subcommittee that the plan's big subsidies for early retirees ages 55 to 64 "may encourage an additional 350,000 to 600,000 people to decide on early retirement." 
HAPPY 22ND B-DAY, SCHNEIDERHAHNI 
(BALDY!) (PUTZ!) 
NICE HAT! OONGAAH! 

By JOHN McCLAIN 
Associated Press_ 
WASHINGTON 

The U.S. economy unfurled more flags signaling a stronger recovery -sharply improved worker productivity in the third quarter, increased factory or­ders in September and fewer new claims for jobless benefits last week. 
DIRECT FROM 
twin $139 

full $154 
FUTONS 
All prices inc/11de convertible frame and mat. 
LAFREE ENTERPRISES 259-6201 

How WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEEA CmcAGO BLACKHAWKS 
GAME? 

$22 (Transportation included) 
Tickets for the Sunday Nov. 7th game against the Edmonton Oilers still available in the Sophomore Class Council room 
TODAY from3-5 pm 
215 La Fortune 

"All of the numbers are look­ing pretty good and moving in the right direction," said Sung Won Sohn, an economist with the Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. 
The Labor Department re­ported Thursday that produc­tivity shot up at a 3. 9 percent annual rate from July through September, rebounding from declines during the prior two quarters. 
At the same time, the Commerce Department said factory orders increased 0. 7 percent, to a seasonally ad­justed $255.2 billion, the third advance in four months. 
And in a third report, the 
Labor Department said the number of new claims for un­employment insurance dropped by 10,000 last week, to 338,000, the lowest level in a month. 
The news followed an October survey by the Federal Reserve, released Wednesday, that also found a moderately growing economy, paced by consumer spending, particu­larly for autos, and by residen­tial construction. 
Still, major retailers reported Thursday that consumers were spending cautiously in October, which historically has been a good barometer of Christmas sales activity. 
ATTENTION 
WOMEN OF ND/SMC GUESS WHO'S 21 AND OUT FOR A CHEAP FEEL? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY J 
FROMl11E 162 DilLON SHOWERGANG 
P.S. WORK...THE...COCK...BOYS 
"WE DELIVER SMILES" 
YOUR NOTRE DAME CONNECTION 

THE BEST PRICES 
1 DOZ. [ru@®~;~ $19.95 
1 ROSE -$2.00 
WE DELIVER! 
1635 Edison Rd Use your credit card & Across from charge by phone: Linebacker 272-0902 

CELEBRATION! 

The Controversy Continues ... 
Chela Johnson, Happy 21st B-day! 

November 9 7:30pm Stepan 


)oelle, Elspeth, Jean, Tamarack, Nina, Shadow, Snowball, 
Phyllis Sarah
Goldie, The Four Troppies, and Dad! 
The Department of Music Presents 
A GUL:ST ARTIST CONCERT 

Schlafly
XP-ijken rrrio 
Successful Defender 

Reagan Advisor 
Barthold Kuijken, flauto traverso Wieland Kuijken, viola da gamba 
of Roe v. Wade 
Robert Kohnen, harpsichord 
Sonatas by Telemann, l'latti, C.I'.E. Dach, & ).S. Bach frjllr Cotrc(r/ by Ramcau and Five l'icccs irr D Mi11or by Abel 
Sunday, November 7, 2:00p.m. 

"Changing Roles of Men and 
Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
$5 General Admission, $2 Students and Senior Citizens 

Women in the 1990s: A Debate" 
Hero abroad, Gorbachev humiliated at home 
By DEBORAH SEWARD 
Associat~d Pr~ss 
MOSCOW 

Life in the new Russia hasn't been easy for comrade Mikhail Gorbachev. A hero in the West, the former Soviet leader is a target of scorn and a symbol of failure in his own country. 
Just before he flew to the United States this week at the invitation of Senate Republicans, a court ordered Gorbachev to apologize for in­sulting Moscow's mayor. 
The slander suit was the lat­est humiliating episode for Gorbachev, still treated as a powerful statesman abroad but a pariah at horne. 
Russia's disdain for the man who presided over the demise of communism is bewildering in the West, where the Nobel Peace Prize winner is credited with ending the Cold War and lifting the Iron Curtain. 
But in Russia, Gorbachev is blamed by all sides for all things. He is held responsible for the collapse of the Soviet Union, the rise of ethnic vio­lence and the ruin of the coun­try's economy. 
Gorbachev now ranks so low in popularity polls that it is doubtful he could be elected to any major office in Russia. 
To enjoy the limelight, Gorbachev has to travel abroad, where he commands fat speaking fees many Russians envy and celebrity status they cannot fathom. 
He was expected to earn about $70,000 this trip. 
"He'll have a place in history for sure," said Gennady Kolukhin, a biologist. "But without a doubt, it will be a place of shame." 
Nearly two years have passed since Gorbachev relinquished power Dec. 25, 1991, and the Soviet Union ceased to exist. 
Gorbachev quickly vanished from the headlines in the Russian press and few stories about him appear these days. 
Mayor Yuri Luzhkov's victory Tuesday in the slander suit against Gorbachev was fodder for the press, which ignored his trip to the United States, where he was to address the National Republican Senatorial Committee on Thursday. Gorbachev had accused Luzhkov of financing country homes for city officials. 
The former Communist Party daily Pravda didn't miss a chance to take a dig at Gorbachev's domestic woes in September. 
Gorbachev's mother report­edly sold the family horne to a Russian pop singer to get money to live. In its report, Pravda implied Gorbachev did­n't care about his mother. 

"AN ELEGANT NEW FILM!" 
-Vincent Canby, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
~~****P' 
-Jami Bernard, NEW YORK POST 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
High demand for HIV tests in Germany 
By LARRY THORSON 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 
Thousands of people who once needed transfusions are now demanding AIDS tests, ter­rified they may have been given tainted blood from a company accused of improper testing for the deadly virus. 
Berlin's health department said its hot line was being bom­barded with calls and similar reports carne from around a country hit by one of its worst health scandals since World War II. 
About 200 Bavarians flooded the Munich health department with calls on Thursday. "People are terribly afraid," said Munich health spokeswoman Edith von Loeffelholz. "Anything concerning blood is scaring people." 
Magdeburg in eastern Germany reported quadrupled demand for AIDS tests. Health departments in northern Schleswig-Holstein said de­mand was doubling or tripling in various cities. 
The recent scare is the latest in Germany's month-long scan­dal over HIV-contarninated blood supplies. The federal gov­ernment admitted Oct. 3 that officials had covered up 373 cases of HIV-contarninated blood in the 1980s. 
Bild, Germany's largest-circu­lation daily, ran a front-page headline Thursday: "15 million Germans to AIDS Test." The newspaper based its figure on the 1.3 million transfusions in Lower Saxony state since the early 1980s, factoring that to Germany's population of 80 million, which would mean 15 million. 
Meanwhile, Greece, Saudi 
BeckeP CPA Review COUPSe 
Invites you to attend a presentation on 
..How to prepare lor the CPA Exam and Current Events.. 

Wednesday, November 1 0, 1993 La Fortune Center-Dooley Room 5:00pm 
Pizza and Pop will be served. Drawing for a $50.00 Gift Certificate from the Notre Dame Book Store. 
For further information, call: 
277-43&& 
Arabia and Austria were joined Thursday by Switzerland and Sweden as known buyers from UB Plasma, the now-closed company in Koblenz, about 60 miles south of Cologne. 
The scandal could damage Chancellor Helmut Kohl in 1994 national elections. Two citizens have lodged criminal complaints against two of Kohl's former health ministers, accusing them of failing to take prompt action. 
Seehofer said Wednesday that testing was the only way to ease worry, and some state health departments said they would offer free testing. 




BUSINESS 
Friday, November 5, 1993 page 7 
Perot dared by White House to debate NAFTA

Riverboat 
opponents 
press on 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS Riverboat opponents on Lake Michigan vowed to pursue a recount of Tuesday's local ref­erendum, but a similar group 
in Vanderburgh County on Thursday abandoned a similar challenge. 
In LaPorte County, where pro-riverboat forces won by 233 votes, the Rev. Garry Brackett of Michigan City's Citizens Against Casino Gambling, said, "In fairness to the process, there ought to be a recount." 
A similar anti-riverboat group in Vanderburgh County gave up the fight after the riverboat referendum passed by about 1,700 votes. 
Chuck Frary Jr. said Citizens Against Riverboat Gambling was steamrolled by profession­al politicians from both parties who lined up behind the gam­bling initiative. 
"When they team up against the town, I don't know how the common citizen can fight that political machine," he said. 
The law requires the river­boat opponents to file petitions with signatures equal to 10 percent of the total votes cast. In LaPorte County, that would be nearly 250 names. 
The petition and signatures must be filed with county elec­tion officials by next Tuesday, one week after the vote. 
A recount would be conduct­ed by a three-member com­mission apointed by a county court, King said. Because the referendum was local, the State Recount Commission would not be involved, he said. 
Both LaPorte and Vanderburgh counties used punchcard ballots. Nearly 400 ballots were thrown out in LaPorte County, and about 900 were invalidated in Vanderburgh County, because voters had not used the cards properly, election officials said. 
"There always are people who do not punch ballots properly," said Phyliss Benn, head of the LaPorte County Election Board. 
Vote counting machines can­
not read improperly punched 
ballots, the officials said. 
Judge rules no overtime for photographers, reporters 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Daily market roundup 
B/1193 911/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON 
The White House dared Ross Perot Thursday to debate the North American Free Trade Agreement before the Nov. 17 congressional vote, a challenge Perot called "a desperate move" and quickly accepted. 
President Clinton, on a NAFTA sales trip to the Midwest, dismissed anti-agree­ment arguments from the Texas businessman and said, "The vice president has chal­lenged him to a debate on Larry King. Let's see if he takes it." 
Perot, on Capitol Hill, quickly proposed three debates, one in Tampa on Sunday, one in Detroit next Wednesday and fi­nally in Seattle on Nov. 15, shortly before the scheduled vote. 
Perot said the challenge that he debate Vice President AI Gore was a "desperate move" made because "they've tried everything to sell the deal and they can't." 
He said the trade agreement is "dead on arrival" among ordinary citizens. 
"If this is such a good deal, why doesn't everybody get ex­cited about it?" he demanded. He called it "another stupid trade agreement rammed through by special interests ... dead on arrival" among ordi­nary citizens. 

Clinton, in Lexington, Ky., told fellow Democrats not to be spooked into voting against free trade with Mexico by this week's Republican election vic­tories. And then he went after Perot, a foe from the presiden­tial campaign who has not gone away. 
"That one fellow talks about the giant sucking sound," Clinton said, referring to Perot's charges that American plants would rush to Mexico because of cheaper labor and less stringent environmental rules. 
"I know a little about this; I was the governor of a state that lost plants to Mexico," Clinton said. "I used to go stand at plants on the last day they were open and shake hands with people when they walked off the job for the last time." 
"I want you to understand this very clearly from somebody who's lived through this: This agreement will make that less likely, not more likely," Clinton said. 
He said Perot has "certainly done everything he could to cloud the atmosphere." 
White House spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers, asked if Gore's challenge to debate Perot was giving the millionaire credibility on the NAFTA issue, replied: "He has credibility, and he's playing on people's fears." 
Clinton flew to Kentucky to appear at a Lexmark plant that makes computer equipment that is subject to a 20 percent tariff in Mexico. The trade agreement would eliminate the tariff. 
With the House set to vote Nov. 17, the White House ac­knowledged it still lacks enough support but said things were picking up as a result of new deals with Mexico to protect politically sensitive American industries. 
NAFTA supporters estimated that an agreement with Mexico on sugar would bring Clinton 10 to 12 votes. 
On the other side of the bat­tle, Rep. Terry Everett, R-Ala., said there are 53 solid Republican votes against NAFT A in the House. Appearing at a news confer­ence with Perot, Everett and other NAFTA opponents said there are 213 House members against the agreement -just five short of the number needed to kill it. 
Some analysts believe the Republican sweep in Tuesday's elections in New York, New Jersey and Virginia will make fence-sitting Democrats even more nervous about casting risky votes, such as for the trade agreement. 
"That's ludicrous, that's just a Washington story," Clinton said. "That's ridiculous." 
However, the fears were real enough that the White House sent Clinton's own pollster, Stanley Greenberg, to Capitol Hill to reassure Democrats that they won't be ousted by voters for supporting the trade agree­ment. 
Clinton said he was proud of the showings of New York Mayor David Dinkins and New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio even though they lost narrowly to Republican challengers. 
"They came back from the dead. Everybody wrote them off," Clinton said. "Besides that, NAFTA wasn't an issue in any of those races." 
He said the best course for lawmakers "is doing the right thing for America." 

Consumers leave vague outlook for Christmas 
By JOYCE ROSENBERG toward lower-priced retailers, Associated Press giving discount stores and the revitalized Sears, Roebuck and Big American retailers Co. the strongest results in 
reported mixed October sales October. Some specialty appar­Thursday, suggesting that con­el retailers and department sumers remain antsy and selec­stores -also struggling in the tive about what they're buying absence of a big fashion trend as the critical Christmas shop­-posted sales declines. ping season approaches. Analysts expect the holiday 
Sales for October, historically season to be similarly frag­a barometer of how the holiday mented, following a pattern retailing business will go, that has prevailed for much of showed that discounters like this year. Wal-Mart likely will do well but "The Christmas season is department stores and apparel going to be affected by the con­retailers such as Limited and sumer's unwillingness to the Gap could face difficulties. spend, his continued concern 
It also may be a season of big for employment and meeting his budget," said Walter Loeb,
price markdowns, good news a retail consultant and analystfor shoppers in search of bar­who called October's figuresgains. 

disappointing.
The disappointing October 

It's now considered unlikelyresults posted by some retailers the retailing industry will see a seem to counter other econom­repeat of last year's strong sea­ic indicators that suggest con­son, which followed three dis­sumers are spending more and appointing holiday periods. 
the economy is improving. 

Edward Johnson, an analystConsumers are indeed buying with Johnson Redbook Service, cars and other necessities, but said many stores will be forced they've put off purchasing dis­to slash prices in December to cretionary items like clothes. 
lure shoppers. 
They're also gravitating 

By FRANK BAKER 
Associated Press 
CONCORD 
Newspaper reporters and photographers are not profes­sionals under federal labor law and are entitled to overtime, a federal judge ruled in ordering The Concord Monitor to pay $21,000. 
U.S. District Judge Shane Devine said in the 12-year-old case that the newspaper did not willfully violate the law, but must pay 12 former and cur­rent employees for back over­time. 
The U.S. Department of Labor filed a complaint accus­ing the Monitor of pressuring employees into not filing for overtime from 1978 to 1980. The newspaper argued that about 30 reporters and photog­raphers included in the com­plaint were professionals ex­empt from the law. 
The law says editorial writ­ers, columnists and other "top­flight" writers of analytical or interpretative articles are pro­fessionals and thus ineligible for overtime. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

. tion.in ing with make home Janet Reno and Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros said their agencies will increase enforcement of fair lending 
la~hsthand educate ,!~1~?~~~ to cpmply
w1t ose 1aws. · ···· 

the countljti . ... ···.·:.................
7 
the Indiana Outlook Panel said. The group.kicked off itsJ4-~~ty tqur,"witb.!! n~ws ~on·,h ference at the Indiana Roof Ballroom. · · 
"There is no question but that some of the work product of the employees presented as evidence at trial demonstrated creativity, invention, imagina­tion and talent," Devine wrote in Wednesday's ruling, "but the bulk of such evidence is not of this ilk." 
Though pleased with the rul­ing, some of the reporters and photographers involved said they were disappointed that it took so long and that Devine found the Monitor had not will­fu 
The newspaper said its re­porters were professionals and therefore exempt from the 1934 Fair Labor Standards Act. The act labels most reporters, editors and photographers non­professionals and therefore eli­gible for overtime after 40 hours of work. 
The Monitor's lawyer, Terry Shumaker, said Thursday he still believes reporters and pho­tographers are professionals. The newspaper has not decided if it will appeal. 
nefits for 1 xnillion · 
1\mel}ca~,.Vot~s are likely to be held next week. The last round of extra benefits eJq>ired five weeks ago. The 
bill would provide up to 13 weeks of extra jobless coverage for people who have used up the standard 2(}.weeks of benefits. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, November 5, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 

~R. ONE. 1F PN LAND, 
SAII'IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
'TV-JO lf 13YSEA-r• 1993-94 General Board 
OR 1'? IT FI\TE. IF t'Y RAIL, 
Editor-in-Chief 

1'WElVE. 1F f3Y FAX'f
David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager 

t-b, l?l)C lf f3'{ OIJE.RNY>HT 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 

}./\AlL OR 1'1-UF:'N-TWO lF 'B'{ CHANCE.......
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advenising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Managcr .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, leners and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The frtt expression of varying opinions lhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-BI3 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
First and second amendments must
'Guide' evaluations 
remain close to Christian teachings
must be mandatory 
Dear Editor: freedoms was our lack of themselves to be wise, they 
The summer I attended my knowledge regarding the men became) fools' in our govern­
Father's 50th year Notre Dame who wrote and interpreted the ment see the remedy for the 
reunion and met a good friend first amendment. The Bible lawlessness, which they them­
Students shouldn't expect too much from the first edition 
and classmate of his, Paul says: "My people perish for lack selves have imposed upon us, to
of The Guide. 
Fisher, now living in South of (the right kind of) knowl­be more security guards and
Certainly, the project is a very good idea with plenty of 
Bend. edge." Five times the Supreme police and better gun-control
potential. The publication aims to inform students about 
Paul and I soon descovered Court had declared this nation laws. The only thing hindering 
eourses and professors before registration, and eventually 
that both of us are interested in to be Christian: in 1844, 1850, them from completely oppress­
to create a system of public accountability that teacher­
defending the Christian faith. I 1889, 1892 and in 1931. ing and disarming us is our sec­course evaluations have proven unable to provide. 
mentioned that when the ond amendment rights which But the fruits of student government's labor is a thin, 
Supreme Court took prayer and they also would love to mali­153-page book offering confusing statistics and a paltry 
Bible reading out of the schools ciously and cleverly reinterpret
'Five times the 
we began to self-destruct as a for us.
group of course evaluations. 
Supreme Court had 
nation. He agreed and told me According to State v. Kessler,
Student government doesn't deserve all the blame. The 
about his new book, "Behind 614 p. 2d 94, 97; 289 Ore. 359
declared this nation to be
root of the problem is a laek of support from an administra­
the Lodge Door," in which he (1980) our founding fathers
tion and a faculty afraid of the prospect of an unprofession­
examined why the first amend­Christian: in 1844, 1850, established the second amend­
al publication that could harm the reputations of individu­
ment was reinterpreted to ment for 3 reasons: (a) the pref­
1889, 1892 and in 1931.'
als -and the University. 
mean almost the exact opposite erence for a militia over a 
As a result, this semester's pilot run is long on good 
of what its authors intended. standing army, (b) a deterrence intentions and short on content. The lack of direct support 
I've been reading the book Fisher Ames of to governmental oppression, (c) from the administration means that professors had the 
and it maintains that the Massachusetts, and not James the right of personal defence. option of not being evaluated, a fact that undermined the 
majority of the judges on the Madison as people sometimes Or as Thomas Jefferson said: whole purpose of The Guide. 
Supreme Court from 1941 to believe, is the man who co­"The strongest reason for the 1971 were Freemasons. Since authored and gave us the word­people to retain the right to
The publication should be, in part, an effort to hold pro­
1783 the Catholic Church has ing for the first amendment. In keep and bear arms is, as a last
fessors publicly accountable. But a professor who does not 
consistently condemned 1803 he noticed that as more resort, to protect themselves
care about student feedback can refuse to be evaluated. 
Freemasonery as anti-Christian and more books were being against tyranny in govern­
The future validity of The Guide will be determined by the 
and as naturalism. Not only added to our educational sys­ment."
professors who have already been evaluated. Will those 
does the Church excommuni­tem the Bible was being pushed Jefferson said that in order to
who receive low scores and negative comments use them to 
cate those who belong, but until to the back. He wrote: "Why retain a republican form of gov­
improve? Or will those professors call The Guide a sham 
1962 only the Pope himself then, if these books for children ernment we must "bind him and refuse to distribute questionnaires? 
could allow former members must be retained, as they will (government) down from mis­There are two keys to establishing a eredible publication. 
back into the Church. be, should not the Bible regain chief by the chains of the The first is for the administration to sign on and make eval­
It is true that after 1962 and the place it once held as a Constitution." And if we fail to uations mandatory. Student government's responsibility is 
1963, when practically all school book? Its morals are know how to do this then Christian thought was effective­pure, its examples captivating according to the words of
to win the support of the administration and the faculty by 
ly removed from our govern­and noble. The reverence for George Washington we are left
creating a fair and respectable publication. Credibility will 
ment schools, we soon became the sacred book that is thus with only one other remedy:
eome only when it wins student respect and support. 
the most violent, divorced, for­lovely impressed, lasts long and "Firearms stand next in impor­
This semester's Guide is not a step in the right direction. 
nicating and aborted nation in probably, if not impressed in tance to the Constitution itself."
The statisties seem to be emphasized, but there is no list of 
the world, beside our SAT infancy, never takes firm hold Jefferson warned that
the questions students answered and no key to reading the 
scores quickly dropping to the of the mind. inevitably, "The tree of liberty 
tables. What does a 2.3 average rating for atmosphere 
lowest of all Western industrial­Clearly the first amendment must be refreshed from time to mean, anyway? Students will find the qualitative informa­
ized nations. that Ames wrote has been mali­time with the blood of patriots tion more valuable. 
I think the reason the anti­ciously and cleverly reworked. and the blood of tyrants." But the project shows promise, and if future student gov­
Christian, masonic Supreme The direct effect hs been the PETER HELLAND ernment administrations put in more effort, it could replace 
Court succeeded in stealing destruction of our country's Notre Dame Class of 1978 'The Dogbook' as Notre Dame's most valuable resource. 
from us our first amendment morals. Now the ('professing South Bend 
DOONESBURY 
YOU R&AUY AR& YOU Kf{}­THINK {)()lNG f}!N3? YaJtum "PRJ VAT& 80RN7DMAK& 
PARTS"/5A 7HI~ PICTUR&! 600/? CARl£~< MOV~, Sl/?'f 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
FIRST OF AU, YOU 60T THE CfiOP3 FOR IT, 80{}-WIS8. 

A8SOLU7l31.-Y/
/)j(}U/.,,
513CQN/?L-~ 77-16 PlfiC& HAS 

IA!tu., GIVE TUTH, IT'9 (J(}T 5UB5TANC£.1 R&AUYi' 
~TAK&A IT'9 ABOIJT SOM~THING! 
1?&-UJRJT&.
I 
\ 
'Writers are always selling somebody out.' 
Joan Didion Writer 

Friday, November 5, 1993 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
BEYOND FREEDOM ROCK PETE PETERSON 
Sixties radical Kathleen Power, who drove the getaway car in a Boston bank robbery in which a police officer was killed, surrendered this fall after about a quarter of a cen­tury underground. Power is a year older than I am. 
I really never understood peo­ple like Kathleen Power. I was a freak, not a radical. 
Freaks were in one place: they had long hair, opposed the war and got off by inhaling. Radicals were in a whole other place: they had long hair and opposed the war too, but got off by striving for a social millenni­um. 
"Where is your social con­sciousness?" they would cry. We tried to he conscious, avoid­ing table grapes in support of the farm workers, buying the Panther Press from street ven­dors. But small daily efforts were never enough for the radi­cals, who expected you to dedi­cate your life to seeking Utopia. 
Not all activists were radicals. Many believed in civil disobedi­ence and in using the system to overturn the status quo. They organized voter drives and demonstrated to bring attention to problems, to motivate people to become more aware and to force legislators to be respon­sive, actions aimed at correct­ing a state gone astray. 
By contrast, radicals distrust­ed the system, and only used it towards its own destruction. On a personal level, radicals did not seem very resilient, and were readily shocked by the ugly contrasts of life. Typical radicals then, as now, seemed to he sheltered nuns whose first contact with inequity was in the slums of Central America, or prep-school prigs who suddenly encountered inner city despair on their way to class at Columbia. 
Considering how full it was of nuns and prigs, Notre Dame didn't have many radicals. But there were some, and in May, 1970, when campuses shut down all over the country in response to the US invasion of Cambodia, I found Tim at the flagpole on campus, arguing with a guy in a letter jacket over a hand-made "Strike Irish" flag that had been raised that day. 
Tim was defending not only the strike flag, but also Fidel Castro, who, he contended, had constructed a workers' par­adise. The guy he was arguing with insisted that the free shoes never fit and was also arguing that the strike flag had no busi­ness on the flagpole. Tim was adamant, however; he had studied Cuba in detail, an knew more about it than the Cuban emigre he was arguing with. 

Then some black kids from South Bend came by, on their way to the basketball courts behind the Bookstore, and Tim saw allies. "Hey, brothers!" he called out to them. "Come here a minute. We'll leave it up to you." He started to explain the controversy, but one of the teenagers interrupted him. 
"Ain't no flag," the kid opined. "That's a f--ing bed­sheet, man, with some shit painted on it." 
"It's a symbol of people's struggle, brother," Tim explained. 
"It's a f--ing bedsheet, 'brother,"' the kid insisted. 
Then as they walked away, the second one said to the first, "You never told me your momma had any honkey kids!" 
I think their scoffing rejection hurt Tim more than losing the argument itself. 
That summer, in Boulder, I met another radical. Annie was dedicated to the lettuce strike, I was dedica to pro first draft of a novel. I told she could be Maude Gonne and I would be her William Butler Yeats, but, of course, silly Willy Yeats never really impressed Maude Gonne .. 
Finally, I became annoyed with her constant radical pre­occupations, while she told a mutual friend: "I really could get it on with Pete, if he just wasn't so apolitical." 
Ah, well. I went back to South Bend and Annie dropped out of sight into the Weather Underground. I like to think she is married today, with a family and a quiet life apart from obsessions with political perfec­tion. But I am too old to think people mature by learning to see things my way. 
I wish Tim had come to see things my way, though, because something in his life apparently didn't work for him. One day he bought a rifle, put the barrel into his mouth and removed the back of his head. 
Tim and Annie had some things in common, though they never met. They both cared a lot, and they had a deep, almost irrational belief that there was something they could do that would make it all work. And I think that, at heart, they need­ed a Manicheean political con­struct where the forces of all good worked towards the mil­lennium and the forces of all evil worked against it. The old union call, "which side are you on?" is part of that dualistic view of the world. 
And, of course, because the world is not that simple, because there are no perfect systems, because there is no absolute good and absolute evil, they were doomed to disap­pointment. And yet, for all their faults, for all their foolish dreams, for all the genuine destruction and heartache they brought about, the radicals did some good. After Silly Willy's radical friends made their sui­cidal attempt to perfect Ireland on the steps of the General Post Office, he wrote "Hearts with one purpose alone through win­ter seem enchanted to a stone to trouble the living stream." 
The Annies and the Tims made us stop, made us think, disturbed the flow of our daily courses, and, as foolish as their visions were, we are that much stronger for having had to con­tend with their simpleminded obsessions, and with the bewil­dering excesses of their love. 
Pete Peterson '71 is a reader­ship services manager with the Press-Republican, a daily news­paper in Plattsburgh, New York. 

KURT MILLS ON THE OTHER HAND 
Women's resource center is a much-needed step to modernity 
A month ago, Notre Dame made a small step toward entering the 20th Century. On Oct. 4, as a result of a great deal of work by a number of women and men, the Women's Resource Center (WRC) opened in a small temporary space in the offices of the undergraduate student government. 
The Center is currently apply­ing for student organization status, which was not the ulti­mate goal. The official goal of the Center is to become a University funded and staffed Center, much like those found on hundreds of campuses across the country. 
Yet, because of Administration intransigence, they have had to settle, tem­porarily, for this lower status. A brief history of the struggle for the WRC will demonstrate the obstacles the Administration has put in their way, even in the face of support from every other part of the University. 
In the late 1980s, an assess­ment was done which looked at the needs of women on campus. It demonstrated that there was a desperate need for such a center. Although the idea for a center was kicked around from time to time, this assessment drifted into oblivion. 
In 1991, the Graduate Student Union made establish­ment of the WRC a priority, and the Women's Resource Committee of the GSU began collecting information about the feasibility of a center and began working with other women's groups on campus in exploring the issue. 
The following year, the com­mittee stepped up its efforts and worked with other groups on campus to develop a pro­posal. They also circulated a petition for three days in the late fall which netted more than 1,000 signatures in support of the proposal. They probably would have received many more signatures, but were un­able to circulate the petition within the dorms. 
In the spring of this year the proposal garnered support from a number of different sec­tors, including the Faculty/Student Committee on Women and the Faculty Senate, as well as renewed GSU sup­port. A letter was sent to facul­ty and staff asking them to send letters to the Administration in support of the WRC, which a number did. 
They also developed a longer proposal which was sent to President Edward Malloy, Provost Timothy O'Meara, and Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara. This past summer, the GSU Women's Resource Committee joined with undergraduate Student Government represen­tatives. This new committee moved forward by, among other things, visiting the University of Michigan's Women Center and contacting other women's centers. 
During this time, a graduate student, in fulfillment of a training requirement in her po­sition at the Counseling Center, conducted a needs assessment to determine what undergradu­ate and graduate students were looking for in a Women's Resource Center. 
The data were analyzed over the summer, and while the Counseling Center does not have permission to release the results to the entire Notre Dame community, it was able to give the information to the Women's Resource Committee. The results reaffirm the need identified a number of years before. This fall, the under­graduate Student Senate voted to provide temporary space for the WRC. 

However, the Administration, and particularly O'Hara, has repeatedly attempted to stop the establishment of a WRC. Since April, various people associated with the effort attempted to talk with O'Hara -the person who recently said that her door was open to stu­dents -with no luck. 
Finally, in mid-September, af­ter five months, she sent a let­ter to the committee which said that she supported the ideas behind the WRC, but had three concerns. First, she said that the University had philosophical differences with the idea of a Women's Resource Center. Second, she said there were other financial priorities, al­though these were never iden­tified. Finally, she thought that it would duplicate other re­sources available on campus. Recently, Malloy made a similar statement before the Faculty Senate. 
On Sept. 24, O'Hara finally met with two committee mem­bers and told them that their only option was to apply for recognition as a student organi­zation. Otherwise, the Center could not utilize official University space. The commit­tee then voted to open as a stu­dent organization with goal of setting up a permanent wom­en's center. They should be hearing whether they were of­ficially recognized as a student organization as this column goes to print. 
However, there is a need, which the Administration has not recognized, to go beyond this status. A permanent University-run Women's Resource Center would make clear to the Notre Dame com­munity that the University sup­ports women and women's is­sues which, Administration statements to the contrary, many women on campus do not believe. More fundamentally, though, there are a number of needs that a Women's Resource Center can address. 
First, as opposed to one of the false concerns raised by O'Hara and others, it will not duplicate other resources. Instead, it can, on the one hand, help to coordinate the diverse groups and programs which currently exist on campus. 
For example, one member of the committee was interested in being involved in a support group for victims of sexual ha­rassment. She found out that both the Counseling Center and CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) were inter­ested in doing this, although neither knew of the other's in­terest. A center with a coordi­nation function could have bridged the communication gap. 
The WRC can also act as a clearinghouse of information and resources and can direct people to the right person or organization on or off campus. They are also working on de­veloping a comprehensive Women's Studies library, which currently does not exist on campus. 
One charge that has been lev­eled against the idea of a Women's Resource Center is that it is separatist and that it addresses issues which are, for the most part, only relevant to women. Why shouldn't issues which affect primarily women, such as eating disorders and date rape, be addressed, and addressed in a setting which is most useful for those affected? 
In addition, such a center can also help men support women. For example, one student whose girlfriend was raped did not know how best to support her and saw her slipping away from him. The WRC can help men deal with that and with other situations and issues which affect their sisters, girl­friends, wives, and female friends. The WRC can also help improve gender relations on campus, which are very poor right now. 
Finally, one of the main orga­nizers of the WRC told me that those involved do not want to be separatist, but rather "want to he autonomous." This means being able to deal with various issues in a way which is most helpful to women while at the same time shrinking the chasm which currently exists between women and men on campus as well in the wider society. 
The Administration could take a big step forward in sup­porting women's autonomy and improving gender relations on campus by withdrawing the ob­stacles and supporting the es­tablishment of a permanent, University funded women's cen­ter. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­didate in the Department of Government and International Studies. His column appears every other Monday. 


friday 
events 
"The Crying Game," Snite Auditorium. 7:30 & 9:45 p.m., $2. "Poetic Justice," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 
10:30 p.m.• $2. "Stake Out," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 9:30 p.m., $2. Crack-ups Comedy Cafe, starring Thor Ramsey and 
Mark Gross, 9 p.m. to 11 p.m.• SMC Dining Hall, $2. Women's Volleyball vs. Loyola, 7 p.m.. J.A.C.C. Arena. 
IIIISic 
Temple Latino, Club 23. 10 p.m. The Road Apples and Trash the Craven, 9 p.m. to 
12:30 a.m., LaFortune Ballroom. Sponsored by SUB. 
Oliver Syndrome Live, 11 p.m., Heartland, 222 S. Michigan St .. Sponsored by Riverbend Entertainment, Inc. 
saturday 
events 
"The Crying Game," Snite Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m.,$2. "Poetic Justice," Cushing Auditorium. 8 & 10:30 p.m., $2. "Stake Out," Carroll Auditorium, SMC, 7 & 
9:30 p.m.. $2. Law Movie Night, LaFortune Ballroom, 9 p.m. to 7:20 
p.m.. free, sponsored by Law Firm of Ford, Cruise, Hackman, Pesci, & Close. 
ND Hockey vs. Michigan State, 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. 
music 
The Groove. Club 23, 10 p.m. 
sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol, 11:30 a.m., Lewis Hall Chapel, Padre Bruce Cecil. All are welcome. Kuijken Trio, Guest Artist Concert, 2 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium Suite Museum. $2. 
movies 
University Park East 
Fatal Instinct 7:20, 9:20 Demolition Man 7: ts: 9:50 Dazed and Confused 9:40 Joy Luck Club 8 Judgment Night 7, 9::{0 Gettysburg 7 
University Park West 
Nightmare Before Christmas 7:45, 9:40 Age of lnnocenee 8 

The Observer • ETC. Friday, November 5, 1993 



ND students help Northea: 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Accent Wri[er 
When Notre Dame students go to work in the Northeast Neighborhood this Saturday as part of a clean-up and beautification effort called the Fall Festival, they will be entering a neighborhood historically rich in com­munity spirit. 
Generated by interested student leaders and the staff of the Center for Social Concerns, the project was offi­cially undertaken last spring by Student Body Vice President Nikki Wellmann, and will be actualized under the direction of Student Government. Bill Purcell, Community Development Coordinator of the Northeast Neighborhood Council, hopes that "there will be new life in the neighborhood, physically as well as emotionally." 
But the Northeast Neighborhood is not a new site of volunteerism or out­reach for the Notre Dame Community, nor is community spirit a new concept for long-term residents. This week­end's festival is only one outgrowth of a recently renewed energy and enthu­siasm within the 2,300 household area of South Bend, located just south of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
The Northeast neighborhood is home to a diverse population, includ­ing large numbers of elderly and young people. For many years, prob­lems have been spreading into the area from larger urban centers like Chicago and Detroit, affecting the quality of interaction among residents, especially the youth. 
Moving out from these cities, explained Purcell, drug dealers had begun to make South Bend a regular place of business, taking advantage of short-term rentals at Notre Dame Apartments. The nature of their activities exerted a negative influence on community ties previously estab­lished among residents; citizens became concerned for their personal safety, and began to distance them­selves from their neighbors. 
Stimulated by thses developments, the neighborhood's 30 year-old coun­cil began to reorganize itself and renew its community-building efforts. Supported by the city of South Bend, Saint Joseph Medical Center, Neighborhood Housing Services and other businesses, they identified the short-term rentals and property vacancy as a root of the problems, and began to develop what Purcell has called "a plan to take back our neigh­borhood." 
An essential component• to regain control was the of neighborhood residents Out of a community meeti which attracted approx1 people, they formed cm address four particularly issues: crime and safet) education, housing, and le 
Elections were held fm borhood council, marking nificant change in leade1 council's 30 year history. her committee was also s prised of a combination of appointed members. 
Purcell noted the accon of the new committee, pa the areas of youth invoh education. Over the pa! neighborhood has devel• programs including teen f and ACT workshops, fielc arts and crafts fairs. 
Notre Dame has becorr with the Northeast Neigh both a lending institution plier of volunteers. Nei Housing Services is also efforts to entice people w the area around Notre Saint Mary's to purchase p 
As the latest dining alternative, Faz 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Viewpoint Ediror 
It's faster than the Olive Garden, more powerful than meatless baked ziti, and able to leap huge appetites in a single chunk of lasagna. 
Far tastier than Superman, it's Fazoli's. 
Fazoli's is the newest fast food superhero in Michiana, and it might yet save Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from their cholesterol-laden demise. 
The fast-food joint serves the same kind of Italian food that made the Olive Garden one of the most popular sit-down restau­rant chains in the United States, but com­pared to that restaurant, Fazoli's does Italian cheaper and quicker. 
Walk up to the counter, order your favorite dish, and a minute later, a full Italian meal will be placed in front of you (in disposable plates on a plastic tray). The wonders of fast food. 
On Sunday and Monday nights, Fazoli's offers all-you-can-eat spaghetti (and breadsticks) for just $2.99. The Olive Garden never had it so cheap. The most expensive one-person entree on the menu is the sampler platter, at $3.79. With half an order each of spaghetti, meat lasagna and fettucine Alfredo, the sampler platter will fill up all but the most greedy cus­tomers. 
The gluttons can fill up on breadsticks, the first of many Olive Garden rip-offs which work well at Fazoli's. Just like at the sit-down restaurant. the breadsticks are all white fluff, with plenty of butter. Not enough garlic, but nevertheless delicious. Warm and soft, they are delicious. 
The meat and marinara sauces are also much like the Olive Garden's. They're not Chef Boyardee, though still tame enough for Michiana. Each packs a spicy punch which one might not expect at a fast food joint. the flavor of oregano coming through clearly. 
The pasta is dandy. Not being much of a pasta connoisseur, I can't say much about Fazoli's spaghetti and fettucine noodles. But they are no less tasty than any other Italian chain, and seem just fine compared to the overcooked mush many first-year off-campus students call noodles. 
Maybe the most intriguing dish at Fazoli's is the broccoli lasagna, a vegetari­an's delight (sorry, veggimaniacs, cheese and eggs are included). The broccoli is steadily perfect, and offers something dif­ferent from the ground-beef bore. 
Fazoli's beef lasagna is pretty boring. It's still a predictable Italian casserole with lit­tle more excitement than the closest can of Spaghetti-O's. 
Generally, however, if you long for your family's version of spaghetti night, Fazoli's provides a quality alternative to Notre Dame's pasta t halls, the sauce 1 but it's never too 
Usually, I'm 1 Alfredo. The dish rich, thick and tive system. F leave me fee of buttermilk. 
But Fazoli's they've wash it all 

Located on US 31/33, Fazoli's introduces the unique idea of se wallet. 





' 
t neighborhood regain sense of community 
move into the area, thereby engender­ing a new sense of community and permanence, and preventing drug dealers from renting out and aban­doning the units. 
"Notre Dame is really a neighbor to the Northeast neighborhood," claimed Purcell, noting the necessary commit­ment and responsibility of the University to the area. He continued, "Part of being Catholic is saying that we're supposed to live in community." 
Father Tom McDermott, Director of Special Projects for Campus Ministry, concurred. Campus Ministry is cur­rently pursuing the permission to use office and meeting space in the neigh­borhood's new Partnership Center, located on the corner of South Bend Avenue and Corby, at the site of the old Pandora's bookstore. 
McDermott envisions a place where Notre Dame students, and off-campus students in particular. will be able to meet with each other and members of their community. He would like to secure a place by the end of this semester, "both to make a bridge to hborhood the neighborhood, and to be a place of engaged in organizing for off-campus students," 
ho work in he explained. 
Dame and Although a tension inevitably exists 
roperty and when a partnership is formed between permanent residents of the neighborhood and more transient stu­dents "passing through" from Notre Dame, McDermott feels this conflict can be diminished, if not resolved, with a continued presence of the University in the neighborhood. "The proper attitude is of a neighbor, a very concerned neighbor." he noted. 
McDermott also cited short-term rental of the Notre Dame Apartments, which had at one time been home to many students and long-term resi­dents, as one cause of the decline in community spirit. Like Purcell, he called for a revival of the ties of the residents within the neighborhood, including families, students and facul­ty. 
Purcell sees his focus as Community Development Organizer as rebuilding the severed ties among neighbors and community members. By creating a supportive base of interaction among residents, Purcell hopes to enable long-term residents to withstand and solve problems that arise. "The issues change," he explained, "but the peo­ple don't." 
To facilitate the creation of this community spirit between the campus and the community, Purcell has recently hired two undergraduates, 
oli's tempts the palette 
r. Unlike at the dining ctually sticks to the food, hick. urned off by fettucine s white sauce is often too 
teesy for my tender diges­i's was tasty. and it didn't ke I'd just pounded a tub 
I fill everyone up. and the perfect beverage to 
Lemon Ice is not gelato. Rather, it's a tart slushee which every fast-food joint should carry. It goes down sour, sweet and per­fect. But stay away from the strawberries, added to the ice. Their syrup drowns the drink. 
With few exceptions, Fazoli's has carved itself a pretty little niche in the crowded fast-food market; the first chain to pursue real Italian. How long before McDonald's cooks up some pasta? 


Dave Hungeling 

good Italian fast food. All of the meals fit nicely into a student's stomach and 
Katie Russell and Greg Millar. to act as Community Service Coordinators with the neighborhood. Paid through a grant for the Center for Social Concerns, Miller and Russell will facil­itate volunteer projects with Notre Dame students and the youth and res­idents of the neighborhood. They will also be responsible for recruiting vol­unteers from campus to participate. 
This weekend's festival testifies to the increased presence of student vol­unteers in the neighborhood. Millar noted the involvement of such campus groups as the Hall Presidents' Council, Navy ROTC, and the Architecture Department. Together, he and Russell will be working on expanding these projects. 
Purcell also singled out members of the Notre Dame faculty who have been especially helpful in forging new ties with the neighborhood. Jim Roemer, Director of Community Relations, is acting as the interim president of the neighborhood. Jim Lyphout serves on the Neighborhood Housing Services Board, and Joy Vann-Hamilton from the Engineering Department is the acting director of the Youth Committee. Jennifer Morehead, a secretary in the govern­ment department, has also been involved in work with the partnership committee. 

According to Miller, future events include a clean-up of the Northeast center, snow shoveling projects in January, and hydrant and curb paint­ing in April. Reflecting the views of Purcell and McDermott, Millar noted "a desire to build community life \"'ith Notre Dame and the neighborhood, to have more of a 'neighborhood' feel­ing." 
Millar sees the education of all par­ties as playing a crucial role in com­munity development work. On one level, the Notre Dame community will help to educate and enhance the neighborhood with its resources. More importantly, however, communi­ty development work will provide an opportunity for Notre Dame students to educate themselves about the reali­ties and problems facing urban com­munities. 
"We don't understand what's going on, what's really needed," Millar explained. He noted that by working with representatives and residents in identifying and introducing new pro­grams, "we're understanding what's happening, before we try to address the problem. Hopefully, by having this understanding, we will have more of a positive impact." 


The Loft Offers~students a 
::.:······ 
chance 
exfjenence 
a 

factivities 
By CHRISTY FREDERICK Accent Writer 
You've heard of Acoustic Cafe, buthave you experienced the LOFT? 
The Loft is the newest development by Student Union Board to provide an alternative place for various forms of entertainment on the weekends. The Loft utilizes the space in Lafortune B:i1lroom and provides a safe social gathering space for interested students, 
"Student government and the office on Alcohol and Drug Education wanted an alterna­tive to the regular party scene," said Amanda DiGirolamo, commissioner of the Campus Entertainment Committee for SUB. 
"Students have expressed interest in more on-campus social activities and here is their chance," said Nikki Wellmann. student body vice president. "If there is enough response, we could have more credibility with the adminis~ tration, because we have urged them to oprm more social space. It is our hope that students attend," said Wellmann. 
''We are trying to get The Ballroom to be used more frequently as an open social space," explained Ellen Zahren, of SUB. "Ideally to be open 24-hours." "With increased activity of SUDDs (Stop Underage Drinking and Sales), students are looking for more activity tin cam· pus," she added. 
For its first event Loft featured "Emily" and "Chisel", two campus bands. "The bands per· form out of interest to help and as an opportu~ nity to gain exposure," said DiGirolamo. 
"We are trying to go with the style of the fea­tured performance," said DiGirolamo. "For example, the second Loft band was the "Swingin' Crawdads", a blues band, so we had a cafe area and open dance space." 
Music \'Vill not be the only form or entertain­ment in the Loft "We are going to try to bring in comedians. open mike nights. and other· thirtgs as well," said DiGirolamo. This is the main difference between the LOft and the Acoustic Cafe. 
"We are trying to book acts so upcoming events can be posted in a calendar, similar to those. of improv Clubs. Hopefully this will be done by second semester," she said. Eventually the Loft will be open twice a month on Friday nights. 
Student response has been positive but slow thus far. "We've had good attendance, but it varies throughout the night. The Loft isn't something you have to go to and stay at," explained DiGirolamo. "Students can feel free to stop in anytime during the event-they can come and go as they please." Sponsors hope attendance will increase as the Loft gains popu­larity. "lt's still so new. we first need people to know about it. Those who have come have really enjoyed it," said DiGirolamo. 
"I think it's a great idea. It's discouraging that more people don't take advantage of it yet. Increased attendance would enhance the quali­ty of the bands and encourage students to attend," said junior Susan Lubanski. 
The entertainment runs from 9 p.m. to 12:30 
a.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom and the cost is free. SUB provides a snack bar for food and drinks. Interested campus bands or other per­formers can contact Amanda DiGirolamo in the SUB office. 
This Friday's performance is by two young campus bands, "The Roadapples "and "trash the craven." If you haven't visited the Loft yet. stop by this Friday to hear them play! 
I 
' 
~ 
I 
l 
r~-~-~--­
1 
I 
Raisins and belly buttons: Post-mortem on Halloween 
When I was a seminarian starting the Novitiate, my worldly cousin Georgianna up in Maine wrote to tell me that for her tricking and treating on Halloween, she was going to stick a raisin in her belly-but­ton, and go out as a cookie. 
She wrote it, of course, to mock my piety and make me laugh, hoping I'd pass it on to other novices like myself. Someone has said, "Just be­cause Jimmy Swaggart believes in God, that doesn't mean He doesn't exist." Georgianna, as a recovering Baptist, would have said the same thing about the Pope. 
When I told a roommate about wearing a raisin in the belly-button which could en­dear me to the Cookie Monster, his reply was: "Why don't you stick an egg-beater in the place where the sun never shines, and go out as a motor boat?" 
"How tasteless," I said, in a snit at being upstaged. "How gross to be potty-mouth in this holy cloister.' From then on, I kept the samples of Georgianna's worldly wit to myself, because I didn't want to distract my fellow seminarians from their high-mindedness. 
Twenty-five years ago, when, at over three hundred pounds, I weighed enough to be called "Heaven's half-acre," I used to tell Notre Dame students on Halloween that I was going to get half-lit, and go out as the_ Grotto. 
This year on Halloween, I thought that instead of joking about going out half-lit, I should consider staying at home half­lit, so that I could write a letter to the Lonely God while I was feeling no pain. Maybe, I 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bonefj 9od 

thought, a letter,maudlin with self-pity from the Jack Daniels,would generate some mail. 
All that's been in the mailbag lately is an anonymous letter from a student, complaining of how unfair I was in last week's column when I called the Right­to-life group militant, though all they do is demonstrate peace­fully. 
The gentle reader didn't see that I could not have had the peaceful demonstrators in mind when I wrote of the "Militant Right-to-Lifers"-meaning mem­bers of the operation rescue team-"who risk arrest by the tactics they use outside abor­tion clinics.:" 
What really saddened me was the anonymity of the complaint. It made me feel that I must be seen as a vindictive old toad who can't be trusted not to try to hurt people who disagree with me. To tell you the truth, I may be a curmudgeon, but I'm also a charmer who enjoys talk­ing to the pretty girls in sum­mer dresses; and believe me, no girl in a summer frock can ever be a plain Jane, 
Does this language sound sex­ist or chauvinistic? If so, it deliberately show you my prob­lem is a failure to communi­cate. Do other folks on this campus find it hard to com­municate? Like Whinnie the Pooh,"! am a Bear of Very Little Brain and long words bother me." When I saw that flyer on "The Call to Full Ministry" tacked to the bulletin board this week, I wondered what one of the groups sponsoring the panel is trying to communicate, perhaps subliminally, in calling itself, "The Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women"? 


The title reminds me of the Student Government's Committee on Redundancy Committee, back in King Kirsten's day as the court jester. Castro has said the posi­tion of a woman caught in a revolution should be on her back. 
Maybe the position of mem­bers of the committee on the ordination of women should be on their knees. A Canadian has been defined as someone who knows how to make love in a canoe. Is this what Castro had in mind for his Cubans? Should this be Notre Dame position vis­a-vis the women favoring fe­male priests? 
Pardon me for asking, and I hope you can see I have no axe to grind here. Canterbury has approved women priests, so why can't Rome? Of course, the Archbishop of Canterbury has said of his Church of England, "I see it as an elderly lady, who mutters away to herself in a corner, ignored most of the time." Is there a committee at work somewhere that has taken the position that the Roman Church should be equally obscure, the world for­getting, by the world forget? 
Surely to God the women of the English Church aren't pounding the pavement into a quagmire with demands that their communion be as much of a busy-body as the Vatican is? 
Oh, dear, I'm afraid all this sounds cranky, even though I'm only trying to be playful, so here's another example of my failure to communicate. A month ago, I wrote a column indicating that Notre Dame has become a network of continuing conversations called discussion groups. I was so coy and self­effacing that I don't suppose anyone noticed how I was hint­ing that I would enjoy joining a continuing conversation that I hadn't started myself. 
Maybe somebody did get the hint, but was too kind to say that students wouldn't have the patience to put up with me talk­ing. Maybe Notre Dame is no longer a country for old men, especially if they have a ten­dency to be out of touch and quarrelsome. 
The one and only time we skirmished, I offered her the 
W.C. Fields line, "It was a woman who drove me to drink, and I never wrote to thank her," as a nosegay. She, poked good-natured fun at me as a lone ranger who has been so long in the saddle, his Trigger has died. Later, Father Hesburgh himself told me that Ms. Pettifer had been warned: "Attacking Griffin is like attack­ing Santa Claus." 
I appreciated the compliment, though it left me feeling like a toothless lion. Now I would like to believe I'm as respected as Santa Claus. So how about it, Ann? Would you like to come out and play word games? 
Dorothy Parker, at a Halloween party, asked some of the guests about the game they were playing. "We're ducking for apples," they replied. 
"There," she said, but for a typographical error, is the story of my life"-an example of wit that oft was thought, but never so well expressed. As my world­ly cousin Georgianna would say, "A girl doesn't have to smoke and drink to have a good Parker's epitaph was, "Excuse my dust.'' 
Everyone one must want to say that at least in his life; at least I have, and I didn't have to get half-lit to say so. As I read in a New Yorker piece last week, "Extreme old age is no half death: it is every bit as vital as the bloom of youth, only dif­ferent. .." 
As "a passenger aboard life's vessel" I believe "in life's flow in the direction of become 
So listen, everyone! Can we talk? Your place or mine? Smokers and girls wearing summer dresses, please apply. Is this chauvinism. Yeats once wrote: "Only God, my dear Could love you for yourself alone/And not your yellow hair." 
Was Yeats a chauvinist too? It must have been the Irish in him. As he said, Chauvinism wasn't such a curse when he was young. "What else have I to spur me into song?" So can we talk? 

I ' 
' 
I 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
[ 

I, Why drive? Weekend Wheels 
, 
I 
provides FREE and SAFE 
' 
' ~ transpo-rtation Fri. & Sat. nights! 
:;:;:::::::;:::::;:;:;:;:::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;·.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:; 
' 
' 
' From 11:00 pm to 3:00am just
' 
' 
I 
show your NO or SMC student ID. 
I
' 
I 
I 
' 
I I I I I 
Senior Bar  "1"1:00  .. "1:40  "12:20  "1:00  "1:40  2:20  
Librarv Circle (Drop off onlvl  .. "1:02  .. "1:42  "12:22  "1:02  "1:42  2:22  
CamDUS View cvvnns Ave.)  "1"1:07  "1"1:47  "12:27  "1:07  "1:47  2:27  
TurtI e creek {Corner o# Vaness by Cactus .Jack's  "1"1:09  "1"1:49  "12:29  "1:09  "1:49  2:29  
Linebacker tsouth Bend Ave. sldel  .. "1:"1 ..  .. "1:5"1  "12:3"1  .. :"1 ..  "1:5"1  2:3"1  
Five Corners CAcross f'ron11 co.,..,.onsl  .. "1:"18  .. "1:58  "12:38  "1:"18  "1:58  2:38  
LaFavette Sauare tEddv&:cedarl  .. "1:2"1  "12:0"1  "12:4"1  "1:2"1  2:0"1  2:4"1  
Club .23 (Notre Dan11e Ave. side)  "1"1:25  "12:05  "12:45  "1:25  2:05  2:45  
IVIain Circle (Drop off only)  .. "1:30  "12:"10  "12:50  "1:30  2:"10  2:50  

Sponsored by Notre Dame Hall Presidents Council 
·-.............................~.................. .N.•.•,., ......................... ••••·•••••·•·•·•••·•·•••••·•••••.......~<"-"J'."..............................................................,...................w................. •.•.-.·.·.-.·.··············· ... · ...•.•.-.•.•.•,•.•.·.•.•.-.•.·.·················"'·'•'•'•'•'•"•'•'•'•'•'•'·'·'•'•'•'•". ................... , ......... , ..•,•.-.-.-.•.·.•.•.·.·······.-.·.···········.v.·,·························...·.········································"'•'•'.....'.........·.··········-. 
Friday, November 5, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 13 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The ch:uge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 287-4082 
Professional Typing Dissertations, Term Papers Reasonable Rates 277-7406 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259-8684. 
Resumes Lisa 273-6332 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Very Lost A small, black leather bag with a shoulder strap, that con­tained a Nikon camera lens, as well as instructions. Not really sure where it could be ... If you have seen it, please call Brian at #3363. Thanks! 
LOST -Long dangle clip earrings @ SMC computer lab. Call Val 284­4395 
LOST Heart Locket at USC rally EXTREME Personal value X24 
LOST!! Two Fall-Jackets during the weekend of USC game : one light grey with dark grey stripes and one navy-blue with a green collar. Finder pl. contact 1-4350 and leave message any time. 
FOUND 2 SILVER MEDALS­1 miraculous 1 unknown X341 0 ask for Matt 
LOST Thurs. 11/4 1 small black pocket knife somewhere between Cav.. Wash Hall, Ad bldg, and FLRC. PLEASE CALL JIM x1507 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING • Earn up to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career employment available. No experi­ence necessary. For more informa­tion 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica. Panama, Day1ona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
TRAVEL FREEl SPRING BREAK '941 CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORI­DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go FREE! Best trips & prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Panama City! Great Resume expe­rience! 1-800-678-6386! 
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!I!Student Travel Services is now hiring cam­pus reps. Call @800-648-4849. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 EXT31 
NOW HIRING -WINGS, ETC. Smiling faces, servers. cooks, dish­washers. all shifts. Will train. Apply at our newest location: 6502 N. Grape Road. 
Wholesale Book Distribution seek­ing part-time workers. Flex. hours to meet your schedule.232-8500. 
FREE RENT FOR GRAD STU­DENT. DUTIES: SHOW AND RENT OUT 6 HOUSES, DO MINOR REPAIRS, TAKE CARE OF LAWNS, AND CALL SERVICEMEN FOR MAJOR REPAIRS (15-20 HAS PER MONTH). HOUSES IN NW SB, 2 MILES FROM CAMPUS. (812)726-4603 EVENINGS. 
TRAVEL SALES! Sunchase Ski & Beach Breaks is accepting applica­tions for Spring Break Campus Reps. Earn top $$$ and FREE TRIPS. 1-800-SUNCHASE 
Green Street Station is now hiring part-time retail clerks for Christmas. All hours available starting pay $5.00. Positions available at UP Mall and Scottsdale Mall. Apply in person at UP Mall. Store located outside of Casual Corners. 
I need Hamlettix! Call @ x2289 
Needed: Two BC GA's Please contact Jon McGhee @ x3578 if you have any information regarding tickets. 
WANTED: 1-2 HAMLET tix, Fri or Sat night. X3001$$$ 
Earn money for sororities/fraterni­ties by selling Christmas wreaths & trees. Call 234-1255 for info 
BEACH or SKI Group Promoter. Small or larger groups. Your's 
FREE, discounted or CASH. Call 
CMI1-800-423-5264 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Seeking rommate to share house. 
$250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­end 616-699-7137 
Unbelievable bargain! $320.00/mo., one bedroom apt., VERY close to campus and Martin's, carport incl. 273-6304. 
NEED LODGING -GAMES OR 
ANY NO OCCASION-CALL 291­
9011 
6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS 
NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. 
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL 
NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 
Lodging -Riverfront-Private. 
257-9101. 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST avail­able for parents on weekends. 219­291-2899. 
Lovely B&B 1.5 mi. off-campus. 
Rooms available 11-12113; 
11-19/20. 219/287-1073 
ROOMMATE NEEDED 
Spr. Sem. Trtle Crk Twnhs 
271-1399 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/15! Bahamas Cruise 6 days includes12 meals $279! Panama City room w/ kitchen $129! Cancun from Chicago $439, Jamaica $479, Padre $199, Key West $239, Day1ona Room w/ Kitchen $149! 1-800-678-6386 
SNOW SKIS Rossignal 7S 203crn w/ Marker Bindings Call KJ @ 232­7838 
1984 RED HONDA CIVIC, 2 DOOR HATCHBACK. GOOD SHAPE. $2500.CALL ESTEBAN *3419. 
SEE THE WORLD FOR $100! 
anywhere btween Chic. and 
Port.,OR. Amtrak tic. 2545 
2 FSU GA's 4sale 
BEST OFFER x3489 
FSU & BC stud tix 4sale 
best offer x3489 
FOR SALE 86 CAMARO 
$1000/BEST OFFER 277-1004 
For Sale: 2 FSU GA'S 
BEST OFFER 
CALL BILL (319) 373-5329 
2 Airline Tickets So Bend -Boston 
12-14 $65ea. 508-771-6996 
TICKETS 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­
ETS! 2 GAs for, FSU, and BC call: 
A. Raczkowski (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums with jobs -will pay big $$$! 
Need 2 GAs for any home game 
Call Tim at 273-1757 
Need 2 GA's for BOSTON COL­LEGE. Call collect (90B)221-61B3. 
Will purchase at handsome price 
four seats together for the Florida 
State game. Call (BOO) 457-04B6. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STATE GA's Pis call (916)55B-6566 
92 ALUM DESPERATE! I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. B00-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1-B00-749-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's call Beth@ X2615 

NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND $$$1111 CALL TOM 254-9013 
My cousin Frankie is coming out. He needs one FSU student ticket. Call Joe Russo at 234-6306. 
FOR SALE 2 FSU stud 
233-9279 Richard 

FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN ALL CALLS 
$$$MUST HAVE FLORIDA STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$ 
For Sale: GA's for all games 
277-1659. 

I NEED FLA STATE GA'SI!I 
CALL ** 232-5030 ** 

NEED 2 FL.ST. STUD TIX, MIKE 
AT 271-B641 

Notre Dame-FSU tickets wanted! 
Please call (407)43B-3697 

FSU GA 40 yd In, row 24 
NEED I SAY MORE? 
Tim@ 60B-255-2175 
NEED 1 OR2 
BOSTON COLLEGE TIX 
CALL 634-2B56 
-Need BC Tickets! x2B46 

FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV.5 
CALL WADE -0789 

FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC 
#1 vs. #2 -it's worth every penny! 
Call Levell at 3305-let's negotiate 
Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any 
home game. Call Aaron @ 272­
3418 

Need two std tickets for Florida St. Will pay $100 per. If interested, call 277-4B17 
Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. 
GA's. Call Dan X1694 
1 FSU Stud. Tik 4 Sale 
Make Offer Mike x4246 

1 FSU GA 4SALE. Best offer by 
Nov. 7. Mike 219-634-11B7 
Interested in FSU tickets?? How about two FSU for $3? -for a raffle ticket. Each ticket earns the bearer a chance to win two FSU tix. Tickets are available thru Sophomore Class Council Dorm Representatives. Drawing is Nov. B at La Casa de Amistad. 
FOR SALE: 2 FSU GA'S CALL 634-3554 AND LEAVE MESSAGE... 
NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651 
Needed: 3 FSU and 1 BC Tix 
Student or GA 
call Kathleen x4241 

I NEED FSU Studs Kevin x0542 
4 Fla. St. Stud Tix for sale-Best 
offer for one or all. Call x4436. 
2 Sr. FSU & BC tix 4 sale 232-4112 Liz BO 

2FSU GA's and stud.tix 4sale Ricky x3515 
4Sale: 3FSU stu tics, 2 are married, BC as bonus. (616)383-9366. 
NEED 2 BC G.A. CALL JIM x17B6 
FOR SALE 2 FSU, 2 BC GA'S. 
273-9838 

FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL DOUG AT 234-6306. 
2 FLA ST TCKTS ROW3 BEST 
OFFER CALL TODD W (513)771­
5871 AFTER 8PM 

Akron, Ohio fan needs 2 FSU tick­
ets. Call collect 216-633-1072, 
Francis, alter 9pm please. 
NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0BB9 
(MARK) 
2 FSU ST TIX 4 SALE 

X2343 LEAVE BEST OFFER 
Need 4 Stu. Tix. for BC Call 
Colleen x427B5 

I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 
FSU and BC Stud Tix 4 sale!!! Call 232-2843 and leave best offer. Will sell to best offer by 11/5/93!! 
FOR SALE: Two Florida State GA's Will call back best five offers. Call Brian at 273-4B65. (Call before WednPsday Nov. 8) 
SELL 2 FSU GAs South Comer Serious$$$ only 277-5912 
For Sale: 2 FSU stud. tix. Make best offer. Jim x4310 
WILL PAY $175 A TICKET FOR FLORIDA STATE GA'S 233-9025 
SELLING: FSU GA'S Serious $ only Brett 273-09B6 
2 Hot Babes selling 2 FRONT ROW FSU Student tixsl I D's optional ­let's negotiate! 634-9437 
I really, really need 2 B.C. tickets! Call Amy @ 4-4954 
Need 4 BC GAs. Will trade stud. FSU ticket plus $$$. Tara 4376 
4 Sale FSU stud BO by 11/5 284-5542 
$$TO BURN?? 4 FSU GA'S FOR SALE CALL ROB AT X3249 AND LEAVE AN OFFER 
2 FSU STUD. TICKETS FOR SALE. CALL #1560 
FOR SALE 2 FLORIDA ST. GA'S. BEST OFFER BY 11/10. (401) B47-2173 
Top$ Fla State GAs 313 981-023B 
For sale: FSU -BC stu tix. Best offer. Call Tara 284-5197. 
NEED FSU TIX STU OR GA Call Collect (914)294-6546 Ask For Dennis 
For Sale: 2 FSU Stud Tix Call x2312 
For Sale: 1 FSU Stud Tic Call x2312 
FSU STUD. TIC FOR SALE. B/0. CALL 4-4902. 
1 FSU Stud Senior Pis bid thru 11/7, x2164 
4 FSU GA's for sale Call x2264 
Willing to pay big $$$ for 2 adjacent B.C. GA's. Call Pat @ 273-5094 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 TIX. (STUD. OR GA'S) FOR BC. PLEASE CALL LISA X1297. 
Need tickets-Notre Dame vs. FSU game. Call Jim (904)788-5060 ASAP. 
FOR SALE: 3 FSU GA's best offer by 11/1 0 Call Tracey 273-3930 
Guess What? I need FSU ticket, GA or Stud. X-1305 
For Sale: 2 FSU GA's. Best Offer-Call Soonll Nick 4-1376 
FSU Stu tix for sale. Make best realistic offer x 3421 
I need GA tickets to BC. Rick 273­5347 
2 N.D.-FSU 1993 National Championship Student Tickets Make Offer @ 232-8363 
Happy Nov. 1311 have 2 FSU stu tix 4 u. Call & leave offer. x4420.­
1 FSU G.A. HIGHEST BIDDER-NEXT 4 DAYS 314/962-4876 
Need 2 FSU Stud Tix Biii233-23B7 
FOR SALE: 5 FSU stu. tix. Call Darel or Tanya at 291-381 B. 
Poor grad stdnt needs reasonable FS stnt or GA Paul273-1364 
FSU GAs Call with Best Offer $500+ by 11/06. 232-9751 
Need BC GAs. Call 3669 leave offer 
FSU sr. stud. for sale. Call x3669 and leave offer. 
FOR SALE: 4 FSU GA'S TOGETH­ER ON 40-YD LINE CALL BILL AT 291-6216 
HAVE 1 FSU GA, WANT IT? CALL MATTY x1865 
Tix.4 Sale FSU GAs&BCstud. 
Need $ NOW 4 trip home. Will sell 2 FSU GAs at cost. Call John x1466 
For sale: 1 FSU stud. call Mike @x2022. 
Tickets for sale: 2 FSU GA's togeth­er. Call Dan or John, ext. #4289. 
BESTOFFERI 
2 Florida State G.A's together Call 4-3192 Best offer by Nov. 10 
For Sale:Two FSU GAs, 273-9805 
Leave Name & Offer. 
1 FSU GA -Best offer -Leave a 
message at (203)644-7119 
FSU STUD TIX FOR SALE 
Scott x1 071 Best Offer 
I have two FSU stud. tix for sale. 
Best offer X2851 
4 FSU student tixs call X 3101 and makean offer. 
FOR SALE:2 FSU GA'S. Call Kelly 
@ 634-3723 & leave offer. 
SALE 2 BC GA'S $125each x3666 
For Sale:4 FSU GAs caii634-1B33 
THE ULTIMATE PACKAGEII 2 Stu Tix (1.0. extra $) FSU &/or BC 273-628B (B.O.) 
Several FSU Stud Tix 4 sale Call Doug x4562 w/ offer 
2 FSU stud. tix 4 sale. BOx 2147. 
I DESPERATELY NEED BC STUD. TIX. CALL JEN @ X 1308 
NEEDED: One BC Stud or GA for a groovy cousin!! 4-1339. 
2 FSU GA'S FOR SALE. BEST 
OFFER. MARTY x1521. 
1, 2, or3 FLORIDA STATE STU­
DENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
Call 634-2856 
Stud. Ticket, 35 yd In, 29 rw, 634­
1663, Best Offer 
I need Boston College pairs Bob-273-3932 
Going on Vacation, need to sell 
Florida State student ticket. 
Best offer Jenn x4831 
I need 2 FSU student or GA's 
Call Patty 2B4-3645 
3 FSU Student Tix BO before 11/9 
Call x1504 
Great opportunity #1 v. #2. 50 yd line 2 GAs. Best Offer call 313-362­7331 by Nov 8. 
2 FSU GAs 4 SALE 
BEST OFFER X4052 
1-BR RESIDENCE INN S.BEND 
FOR 11112 & 11/13 PREPAID!! 
CALL W/ BEST OFFER 
(618)2774481 DAYS 
(618)6327571 NTS. 
SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT TIX, CALL 289-3865, LEAVE OFFER. 
FOR SALE-1 FSU GA X3436 
ASK FOR BRENDAN 
2 FSU stud. tix FOR SALE best offer call Juliet @ x4899 
1 FSU and BC Stud Tik 4 sale. 
Call232-7970 +leave best offer. 
Goes to best offer by 11/B. 
Senior Section Student FSU TICK! 
Will trade w/ $ for a GOOD GA 
Call Chuck soon at x1717 
PAIRS OF FSU TIX: FIRST PAIR 
ON 5 YRD. LINE 20 ROWS UP, 
SECOND ON GOAL LINE 40 
ROWS UP. BEST OFFER BY 
SUN., STARTING AT $950. CALL 
JOE AT (219) 634-1624 
FOR SALE: 2 FL ST GA'S GREAT SEATSI35 yd line Best Offer: 703-759-3349 
For sale: 2 FSU sr stu tix Buy one 
or both B/0 284-5250 or 2B4-5258 
for sale: 1 FSU stu tic. BO x4-4313 
I HATE SCALPERS!!! 
I HATE SCALPERS!!! 
2 FSU Stud senior 4 sale 
call 284-5204 
For sale FSU stud tix. Best offer 
Kellie 284-4346 
For Sale FSU stud tix Michelle 
284-50B6 WANTED: 2 ND/FSU tickets will pay top$ call Mike leave message 24 hrs, (800)421-8845 ex1 729 
2 FSU GA tickets for sale. Call x2187 ask for Tom. 
2 STU TIX 4 SALE. BEST OFFER BY 11/10. (219)634-498:~ OR 2563. 
2 Fla St tickets for sale 683-7275 
NEED 1 FSU stud will pay big $$ Call George@ x1972 
Need 2 std tix FSU 409-762-6645 call collect 
4 SALE 2 FSU GA's BO Rob @1601 alter 10. 
NEED TICKETS FLORIDA ST. GA'S CALL JOHN X1227 
1 45 yard line FSU GA for sale. Call George 634-17 48 
1 FSU student ticket for sale. Call Kristin with best offer at 634-2989. 
1 FSU GA for sale; best offer by lues night; cash only; call bet 4 and 10 pm; 277-5612 
I NEED BC GA'SI X4355 
1 FSU STU. TICKET FOR SALE BEST OFFER. CALL MARY BETH @ X3474 AND LEAVE MESSAGE 
1 [one] florida st senior student free or best offer jeff 273 -6445 
PERSONAL 
Consider a life of patient love from Mom, financial security from Dad, laughter and music in a country home for your baby. Please call Lynda and Pat at 1-800-226-5172 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­place in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369­2597 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 
Did you know? Harvey Leo is 21. 
2 FSU GAs and Parking Pass for sale. Best offer by 11/11. Call Dave, 4-2246. 
Hey you guys!!!! Mud wants to buy the !-shirt ,"Why do all the trees on campus bend to the west...?" Call her today so she will no longer be naked. X2575. 
to the crab who made it beyond the barrel: don't worry too much today. relax: we/re bound to come up with the grand plan for p&wo sooner or later! u c, i biasly believe in your ability to claim your space -and fill it tool so when you get to rio, send the ticket, yes? and remember JCJ, she has to have an italian bra who can cook c! catch some leaves for me too on this your special day,ok? your siezza always: the other amigo 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development The Council Weekend Sat. Nov 6 
1PM Finance 
1:45 Operation Management 
2:45 Internships 
3:45 Citizen Democracy Corps 
4:45 Business Services All Saturday meetings will be held in the Sarin LaFortune Sun. Nov7 
11AM Mass in Alumni Hall Chapel with Fr. Beauchamp All members should attend NEW MEMBERS WELCOMED! 
STUDS/GRAD STUDS/FAC.-Is your son or 'Iii bra' 4-7yrs old? I need him for a minor (no-speak) role in my film! If you can help call X1675. 
"SABOR LATINO" Tonight 10pm CLUB 23 
"The Groove" from Chicago Tomorrow, 10pm CLUB 23 
Komm zu sammen fiir Abendessen am Samstag, 6. November!!! German Club members treffen am South Dining Hall um fun! Uhr (at the elevated tables of the open side of the Dining Hall!!) 
Hey guys! Help a sexy P.Y.T. cele­brate herb-day. Andrea, get your ass off the couch and stop reading CORE so we can celebrate your B-day! Love, 
the 2nd floor party girls of P.W. 

SPORTS BRIEFS
Irish crew tea111s busy over break 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's varsity crew teams were successful in two regattas over break. 
Last weekend, the Irish competed in the Head of the Schuylkill in Philadelphia after a week of practice on the Schuylkill River. The Irish en­tered five boats, but only results for two boats are available due to computer problems. 
The women's lightweight boat placed ninth out of 19 boats while the club men's boat fin­ished 29 out of 31 boats. Results for the light­weight men, the club women and the champi­onship men's boats were not available. 
At the beginning of break, the Irish competed in the world famous Head of the Charles Regatta in Boston along with over 1000 boats from schools, colleges and clubs from the United States, Canada, England, Norway, France, Germany and Australia. 
The women led Notre Dame finishing 11th out of 33 boats in the women's club division for an automatic bid to next year's Head of the Charles. In the boat with coxswain Jen Casaletto was Kara Courtois, Anne Stricherz, Brook Bickerton, Paula Brenton, Liz Bush, Christy Keyes, Dena St. Clair and Thea True. 
Also at the event, the men's lightweight boat placed 29 out of 34 boats and the lightweight women's boat finished 11th out of 12 boats. 
This weekend, the Irish will finish the season at the Head of the Chattahoochee Regatta in Atlanta. Five Irish novice boats will participate 
The Notre Dame crew teams participated in the world
along with the varsity teams. 
famous Head of the Charles regatta in Boston. 

Watch for the 12 page 

Irish Ice Club Hockey will be held on Thursday Nov. 4 at 10:45 p.m., Sun~:lay Nov. 7 at 11:30-12:30 p.m., Thursday Nov. 11 at 10:45-11:45 p.m., Sunday Nov. 14 at 9-10:00 p.m. Please bring $5 to trrst scrimmage. New members welcome. Call Rob at x1950 or Pete at 273-5059 for more details. A Mixed Doubles Tennis Mixer will be held on Monday. November 8. 9pm-llpm at the Eck. Sign up in advance at the necSpor~ office by 12pm on Monday. Individual sign ups only; you will be paired with a partner. $1.00 court fee is required. Call 631-6100 for more info. A Turkey Shoot will be held on Monday, November 15 and Tuesday, November 16 from 4pm to 6pm. Co-Ree teams of two men and two women. It is open to all undergrad and graduate students. The shoot is sponsered by Naval ROTC and Rec Sports. Members of the ROTC rifle squad are not eligible. Sign up in advance at RecSports by November, November 11. No experience necessary. Call 631-6100 for more info. The RecSports Office is offering interhall and grad ice hockey and interhall, grad and club basketball with the deadline being 
November 11 at the time of the captains meetings. Hockey meet­ing is at 5 p.m., the interhall basketball meeting is at 5:30 p.m. for both men and women, and grad and club basketball meeting is set for 6 p.m. Also, all those interested in officiating all basketball 
above have a mandatory meeting at 6:30 p.m. All meetings are in 
the JACC Auditorium on November 11. 
Women's Lacrosse mandatory practice Tuesday November 9 at 9:30-11 p.m. at Loftus. Call Emily at 4-2856 or Michele at 4-2894 


Sti[[ on tlie go after 
Florida State pull-out Friday, November 12 

20 years! 
:J-{appy r.Birtfufay, 
Mary! 
Costa Rica  $255  
Quito  $269  
Casablanca  $375  
Nairobi  $763  
Bangkok  $495  


Love, 
'Da4 %om, 'Bo & 'Beanie 
pACK"GEl of TANNING \n Bend, \N 


with questions. 
DoV\ '+ DriV\k aV\d Drive 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
c~SE ,..,,4 '2~· sou 
WITH pUR ons. S\. ,.,.... 

INTERESTED IN PLANNING
cot\lrn 
n\vefs\'f'-.1 
• BEST SERVICE! FOR DETAILS 
Slop In to see our 
• 
BEST TANI Solon. or call us at 

• 
BEST DEALI 212·7653 


expires 11/19/93 

SENIOR MONTH/ SENIOR WEEK? 
THERE WILL BE AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8TH AT 6 P.M. IN THE FOSTER ROOM 
ANY QUESTIONS, CALL JULIE AT 282-2965 
" .. I 


page 15 

-========================'il Lester and sophomore Bill 

li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl Mike Berticelli were named 
SENIORS 
continued from page 20 
dangerous Xavier team that is 2-1 in the conference. 
.. 
Xavier went five (games) with Butler, playing them very com­petitively, and of course Butler played us very competitively," stated Brown. "There is no way we can afford to overlook them." 
The Musketeers enter boast­ing one of the best percentage hitters in the conference in sophomore middle blocker Dar­lene Eismann, whose .283 av­erage is third in the MCC. 
"" 
Hey Baker>­
Run for> Safety! 
Happy 20th 
Bi,.,thday! 

love, Norz, E, Jules, Beth and Donz 

Featuring ... 

The Roadapples 
(winner of the Battle of the Bands) 
&: 

t·r=a.:s=h 4t·hQ, ('=r=~=v=e.n
~· ~-~
...· .:. .::. . : ........ ...=..:. '-·· .. : ..:. .. :. •. ::" .......... . .. : .. 
Friday Nov. 5 9pm-12 :30am Ballroom 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
SUB: crazy stuff and more! 

1rhe 3rdl eveim~ iim ~he c~lll~iunnUliimg JL(Q)JFJT §eirie§~ 
Senior Gwen Zang is also a force at the net, averaging 1.21 blocks per game, while sopho­more setter Susie Checkett is second in the conference at her position, just ahead of Notre Dame's Karlan. 
However, the Irish hold a 20­0 record against MCC foes un­der Brown's tutelage, and should improve on that tonight, as the Notre Dame has already defeated its other main MCC ri­vals, Butler and Loyola. Also, playing in their last home game, the Irish seniors will make sure their team is focused on winning a third straight conference title. 

Lanza were both named con­ference Player of the Year. 
Lester has scored 13 goals and added 14 assists for 40 points this season. She broke the women's squad's career records for goals, assists and points this season. 
Lanza, who was last year's Newcomer of the Year, has scored 13 goals and added eight assists this season. 
Freshman midfielder Cindy Daws, who has set the women's team's record for points in a season by notching 13 goals and 18 assists for 40 points, Renola. Sophomore Ashley
Both women's coach Chris
was named Newcomer of the Scharff was named to the Sec­
Petrucelli and men's coach 
ond Team. 

Irish soccer dominates M CC awards 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame soccer pro­gram dominated the Midwest­ern Collegiate Conference all­league teams and claimed five additional awards yesterday, as the MCC named its honorees. 
Seven members of the wom­en's soccer team and four members of the men's soccer team were named to the MCC first team while one member of each squad was named to the second team. 
Senior tri-captain Alison 
Coach of the Year. It was the 
Lanza and juniors Bert 

third straight season Petrucelli Bader, Chris Dean, and Timreceived the award. 
Oates were the First Team representatives of the men's 

Notre Dame's representatives team. Senior Mike Palmer was 
on the women's First Team 
named to the Second Team. 

were Daws, Lester, senior tri­captain Andi Kurek, sopho­
Both squads are in 

mores Ragen Coyne, Rosella Indianapolis this weekend for 
Guerrero, and Michelle Me-
the MCC tournament. 
I 

50¢ OFF
I 

REGULAR SIZE 
I I CAPPUCCINO! 18S~=UE 


I . SOUTH 8Ett0, INDIANA 46617 I 
Offer expires 11I12/93 . Limit one coupon per customer. 1 l__ _ Not :lid with ':_Y othe~_:~~~o~-o~~o~n.. -· ·-~ ffi__:£_j 
THE KIND 
OF FOOD 
THAT BUILT AMERICA. 
We've got your hearty dinners rixht here. Pot roast. Meatloaf. Country Fried Steal-c. Serl'ed rritlr your choice oftwo l'egetables, fresh bread, All-lou-Care-To-Eat Soup. Salad & Fruit Bar. .·Wfor one low price. 
HEARTY HOMESTYLE DINNERS 

99 

Offer valid at partic1pat1ng locations 
© 1993 Shoney 's

SHONEY~ 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 


By JOE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
If momentum means anything heading into the second season, both No. 2 seed Morrissey and the No. 7 seed Dillon look to be in good shape heading into their playoff meeting Sunday at 1 p.m. at Stepan Field. 
Morrissey is coming off a 20­3 win against highly-ranked Keenan to close out their un­blemished season. 
Quarterback Scott Taylor passed for three touchdowns, two to junior wide-out Tom Fitzpatrick, while the defense gave up its only points of the season. 
Dillon, needing a victory to clinch a playoff spot, rose to the occasion as they crushed Grace 20-0. Led by junior Mike Schreck's two scores and a strong defensive effort, the Big Red now find themselves with another difficult task ahead. 
"It'll be a tough game," said Dillon captain Zach Budzi­chowski. "But with another team effort we can do it." 
Having not played each other during the regular season, the teams lack the familiarity that some of the other divisional playoff games possess, but Tay­lor sees the domination of the line of scrimmage as a key to the game. 



How CAN WE HELP THE HUNGRY? 
The Wo,.ld Hunqel"' Coalition invifes all faculty and sfudenfs fo slop by the C.S.C. fo,. a mini-l"'ef,.eaf on hunqe,. in the wo,.ld, and oul"' effo,.fs fo alleviate if. 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 7TH 12-4 PM 

"Whoever controls the line of scrimmage will have the advan­tage," said Taylor. 
Helping to fortify Morrissey's offensive line will be the experi­ence of seniors Paul Merlitti, Greg Graceffa, and John Walsh. 
With everything on the line Sunday, expect a good game between these two south-quad rivals. 
Zahm vs. Cavanaugh 
In the last two years of inter­hall play, No. 3 seeded Zahm has gone 10-0-1 against all challengers including winning last year's championship. 
Now the defending champs look to defeat the one team that tied them, No. 6 Cavanaugh Sunday at 2 p.m. at Stepan. 
That one tie came in this year's opening game as both teams locked themselves in a defensive struggle that ended in a scoreless deadlock. Don't look for anything different when these two arch-rivals 
@the C.S.C. 

ties program that Includes team sports, free aerobics dasses, and mud• more. 
Efficiencies from m70 
1-Bedrooms from 285 2-Bodrooms from 5 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free A'3robics 
Stop by today and we'll show you how aHordable apartment living can be. 

=:::
.•:: 


hook up again. 
"The game is going to be won in the trenches," said sopho­more leading rusher Mike Nor­but. 
Sophomore center John A)­brighton anchors the Ca­vanaugh offensive line, which will have its hands full against the Zahm defense lead by sophomore lineman Pat Mc­Donough and senior Paul Shuga in the secondary. 
On reverse sides of the ball, sophomore QB Randy Swatland will direct the Rabid Bat's of­fense against a formidable Ca­vanaugh defensive unit. 
"We've made some offensive adjustments to put some points on the board," said Zahm coach Dave Dominanni. 
This blue division rematch between the north-quad foes does not lack anticipation either. 
"When I heard we were play­ing Zahm, I was bouncing off the walls." said sophomore Greg Bieg. "We're not going to have any trouble getting pumped up for them." 
"Its time we tarnished Zahm's gold pants," added Norbut. 
"We'll be ready to hit and hit hard," Dominanni responded. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service 


-$1.00 

• Appra1sals large and small 
Open noon to aix Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 [219] 232-8444 

\ '-" I R I I ) \ \\ I ~ '-\\\ \ \ L1 \ I~ \ II '-1 \ \ \ I ) I I II \ I R I 1• I\ I " I \ I " 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL oN THURSDAY, NoVEMBER 4 FRIDAY, NoVEMBER 5 AND SATURDAY, NoVEMBER 6 $14-R.EsERVED SEATs . $1 a-STuDENTs AND SENioR CITizENs TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LAfORTUNE TICKET OFFICE. MAsTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL: 631-8128 
INTERHALL MEN'S FOOTBAU PLAYOFF SCHEDULE 
unless otherwise noted 

HEALTH CARE REFORM 
(Are you sure you still want to be a doctor?) 
A panel discussion with the following professionals: 
DR. VINCENT FRIEDEWALD Cardiologist and Chair of the Board of American Medical Communications 
DR. IRWIN PRESS 
Clinical Anthropologist, Notre Dame, Director of Press & Ganey Associates (nation's largest firm dedicated to patient satisfaction measurement) 
DR. DAVID SOLOMON Professor, University of Notre Dame Philosophy Depanment 
MR. PHILIP NEWBOLD 
President & Chief CEO of Memorial Hospital/ Health Systems-South Bend 
WHEN: SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1993-9:30 AM TO 
12:00 NOON (Coffee & Donuts will be served at 9:15am) 
WHERE: 127 N!EUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
• ll)l)) l) I ~I \"1. '"-• 
.. -,.-.;x, 

Keenan, Stanford rivalry heats up as playoffs approach 
By G.R. NELSON 
Sports Writer 
The second season begins Sunday at Stepan Field. Every team still left now has the same record, 0-0. The formula for success is quite simple: win and advance. 
Fisher vs. Alumni 
Top-seeded Fisher meets eighth-seeded Alumni Sunday afternoon. 
Fisher destroyed Alumni 19-0 during the regular season, but Alumni vows to be ready this time. 
"We weren't ready to play then," said Alumni captain Paul Zachlin, "But we are motivated and ready to go." 
Alumni better be ready be­cause Fisher is an outstanding team. Fisher's defense yielded one score all year and their of­fense is very efficient. 
"We need our offense to get 
~-i·~' 
y_Jf ' •., 
~-", '* .... ~ 
·. . ' 
going and our defense to keep it up," said Zachlin. 
Fisher will continue to do what they did all year on their way to an undefeated regular season. 
"We'll establish our running game early," said Fisher cap· tain Jeff Biever, "In an effort to open up our passing game later." 
Fisher understands the im­portance of this game. 
"We will keep our intensity level high," said Fisher running back Chris Lary. "We are tak­ing Alumni very seriously." They better, because in the playoffs, anything can happen. 
Keenan 
VS. 
Stanford 
Keenan defeated Stanford 13­12 during the regular season, but the playoffs are an entirely new ball game. Surprisingly, Stanford is extremely confident 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Senior fullback Paul Lopach (44) follows a block during a regular sea­son game. Lopach leads No. 2 seed Morrissey against No. 7 Dillon in the first round of the playoffs Sunday. 

while Keenan accepts its un­derdog status. 
"We are definitely under­dogs," said Keenan captain Matt Makowski. 
"We were extremely pleased with the pairings," said Stan­ford captain Chris Pollina. 
Keenan's offense has strug­gled all year, and this game should be no exception against a formidable Stanford defense. However, Keenan also has a strong defense, a defense that will keep them in the game. 
"The key is to keep it a low scoring defensive game," said 
Keenan  running  back  Jim  
Walsh.  "We can't outs core  
them."  

Stanford's defense has shown flashes of brilliance but allows the big play too frequently. In fact, Keenan defeated on two big plays, something that Stanford vows will not happen again. 
"If they think they will win on a fluky play," said Pollina, "They can think again." 
When Stanford has the ball, look for Lamar Guillory and Pollina to be very active. 
"Lamar and their other backs are very good," said Walsh. "We have to stop 
MarshaK's 
Crafts & Balloons 
{I) $100 off any ( Balloon Bouquet Great balloon bouquets for SYR/Formals 
North Village Mall 273..1570 
MOVIE NIGHT The Law Finn of IIrFord, Cruise, Hackman Ji Pesci & Close II presents an all-night tribute to law in the movies. On the docket: 9:00pm A Few Good Men 11 :20pm My Cousin Vinny 1:20am Presumed Innocent 3:30am Jagged Edge 5:20am Class Action November 6, 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom It's Fun, Free and Perfectly Legal!  

them." 
However, if Keenan concen­trates too much on stopping the run, quarterback Mike Brown should have a bid day hitting his two excellent receivers, Mike Miller and Bob Hughes. 
Stanford and Keenan are in­tense rivals, and Stanford has something to prove. After Keenan's victory earlier in the year, many Stanford players were upset about Keenan's ar­rogance. 
"It's put up or shut up time," said Stanford linebacker Brett Galley. "We'll still be playing next week." 


18in-2items $14.00 14 in-2items $10.00 For Carry Out/Delivery call 
273-3890 
Ctilnese • American 
Restaurant & 
Cockt11il Lounge 
1\.uthentic Szechuan, 

t-t,~~'1.·J'l'..,.. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisi~ Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dillllers starting· at ..... $5.95 VoteJ Bbt· 
Ori~ntal Restaumnt

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in l\lichi:ma bv 

130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 11../iclziana Noi\· _.·
(next to Ranilall's hm) i. 

Badin the team to beat in women's interhall playoffs 
I 
I
, 
By KELLY CORNELlS Sporn Writer 
After a two-week hiatus of rest and recuperation, the women's interhall football teams have been gearing up this week for the first round of playoff action, 
INTERHALL WOMEN'S FOOTBALL PLAYOFF SCHEDULE . 
1 Badin 
Sunday, 1:00 
8 Farley 

Nov. 14, 1:00 
4 Pasq. East 
Sunday, 2:00 
5 Howard 
Nov. 21 
CHAMPION Notre Dame 1-------­
Stadium
3 Lyons 
Sunday, 3:00 
6 Lewis 

Nov. 14, 2:00 
2 Pasq. West 
Sunday, 4:00 
7 Walsh All games played at Cartier unless otherwise noted 


which begins this 
Lynn Quenan. "At Sunday at Cartier first it was hard to Field. get motivated and 
The opening we really don't round will pit the know much about lop four teams P.E., but this team from the Gold really wants to do 
League against the four finest Blue League squads. 
In the first match-up, which starts at 1 p.m. Sunday, top­seeded Badin will face the No. 8 seed, Farley. 
The Attitude has been the team to beat all season, and they are the favorites heading into the tournament, despite dropping a regular-season game to Lyons. 
Farley has a three-game win­ning streak going into the play­offs, as they recovered from an 0-2 start to finish the season at 3-2. 
The Badin team feels mixed emotions about their No. 1 ranking. 
"We know we're the team to beat, and that puts a lot of pressure on us," commented junior Erin Osborne. "But we're that much more motivated to get out there and win." 
Badin plans to continue prac­ticing as they have all season, but has been preparing for Far­ley's offense. 
"We're looking at it as busi­ness as usual," added Osborne. 
P.E. vs. Howard 

At 2 p.m. No. 5 seed Howard will challenge No. 4 Pasquerilla East. Both teams finished the regular season at 3-2, but the Pyros are coming off a big win over Lewis and Howard lost its last two games to Badin and Lyons respectively. 
"We have been practicing really hard all week," said Lyons captain 
well.'! 
The teams are evenly matched, so this should prove to be a close contest. 
Lyons vs. Lewis 
Third-ranked Lyons will meet Lewis, the No. 6 seed in the playoffs, at 3 p.m. These two teams also posted 3-2 records during the regular season but have the potential to beat any­one. Lyons beat playoff favorite Badin 20-19 earlier this year, and Lewis played tough against 
P.W. and P.E., who are both highly-rated teams. 
"Lyons has become a better team as the season has come along, so we're not taking them lightly," commented Lewis co­captain Meg Zgrabik. "We're going to be ready for anything." 
Lyons also realizes that they will face a tough opponent on Sunday. "We know Lewis will be a challenge, but I think we're ready," said Lyons cap­tain Wendy Holthous. "We're practicing with a lot of intensity and I think we've really come together as a team." 


P. W. vs. Walsh 
In the final game of the first round, seventh-ranked Walsh will play Blue Division winner and No. 2 seed, Pasquerilla West. Walsh, the underdog in this contest, has a 3-2 record, while P.W. dominated the Blue League at 4-1, losing a close game to Farley. 
Although inconsistent during the regular season, Walsh played tough at times and has a good chance in the playoffs. As last-year's runner-up they also possess a great deal of tourna­ment experience. 
The P.W. team has a lot of talented players and performed well in all their regular season games. 
Notre Dame•s Only Latin Band! 

COPELAND BOVEE PRODUCTIONS 
JOHN DENSMORE Drummer for THE DOftU LIVE IN CONCERT! 
Wednesday, Nov. 17, 1993 7:00 p.m. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 211 North Michigan Street, South Bend 
An eclectic night of private film footage, conversation, and live music with John Densmore, founding member and drummer for TtiEIMMMla 
Reserved Seating $12 Tickets available at MORRIS CIVIC BOX OFFICE and usual area outlets or by PHONE at 235-9190 or 1-800-537-6415 
DOORI fans! Stay after for a free booksigning reception & MEET JOHN DENSMORE 

54 Holes 
ol Indoor
Miniature Golf 
Over 100 Video Games! 
Open 7 Days a Week 
. -Thur. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fn.-Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. Sunday I p.m. -10 p.m. 
Town & Country Shopping Center on Mckinley in Mishawaka 
254-0100 
Use Your Student Discount Card! 



Caldwells soon discovered (too late, regrettably), It was best not to trv and trump the old gypsy woman. 
OF INTEREST 

IH11,-R1c,11T IHu.E Is w~., .:r: ,., ....,~ 6o 
lo 511't''... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Little despot 
7Coxcomb 10 Marionette man 14 Celia's alias in 
"As You Like It" 15 Gorki's river 16"-Hand 
Luke" 17 Forthrightness 18 Hurt 19--etorbi 20 Royal Landau? 23Medal­26 "Downstairs" 
employee 27 Flight 
balustrade? 28 Koppel 30 Miss Pym's 
creator 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Tuesday, November 9 7:30pm at Stepan Center Admission $3 
58 Station 59 SSW opposite 60 Woodchuck 64-quam 
videri 65 Bren or Sten 66 Brutus, Cicero 
and others 67 Lecher's look 68 F-orm a lap 69Couch 
DOWN 
1 Parisian bag 2 Neighbor of Ga. 3 Grass's "The 
--Drum" 4Communist survey? 5 "God is a verb I 
6 Imitate a bird? 7 Percheron babe 
25 Johnson of "The Front Page" 
29 Poet Thomas 32 "-asa turkey-gobbler": 
0. Henry 34 "Anyone who 
hates ... dogs can't be-": 
W. C. Fields 35 Elia, to Lamb 
36 Saltpetre 37 Sources of ivory 
31 Erie's Street 33 Marshal Earp 35 Hill dweller 38 Forster's 
"Howards-" 39 Eat like a bird? 41 B'klyn campus 42 Beam 43 Of ci flu bug 44 Brief bios 46 Give the pink 
slip 47 Leno's 
employer 49 Wingding? 50 King Arthur's 
mother 54 Excites 56 Hawk's 
sorrowful opponent? 



-

STUDENT UNION BOARD . 
Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on salt. 


American Heart Association WE'RE FIGHTII\JG FOR 
'l()JR LIFE 

DINING HALL 
Friday, November 5 9pm-12:30am Ballroom 
Featuring: The 
R.oad.a.pJlles 

• SPORTS 
.. 
.. 
.. 
-

The Observer/David Hungeling 
Sophomore midfielder Ragen Coyne leads the Notre Dame women's soccer team into The Irish will face off 
this weekend's MCC tournament. 
Hockey hopes to redeem itself against MSU 
By TlM SHERMAN 
Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team looks to Improve upon il.:; 2-1 record this weekend with two games against conference rival Michigan State. 
The Irish travel to East Lansing tonight and host the Spartans in the Joyce A.C.C. Saturday night at 7 p.m. 
This past weekend, Notre Dame split a pair of confer­ence games. 
On Frlday nlght. the Irish twice came back from first-pe· riod deficits to defeat Western Michigan by a score of 4-3. 
Sophomore Jamie Morshead tallied the game-winner, while goalie Greg Louder preserved the victory with a strong third­period performance. The tnam suffered a let-down Saturday. though, as they came out flat against a strong Michigan squad. 
"Last weekend is behind us," Irish coach Ric Schafer said. "We're ready to redeem our­S(~lves this weekend." 
Schafer made some changes this week in practice in prepa­ration for the Spartans. Hoping to generate more goals, he changed the lines. 
"It's like a big chemistry set and we're just looking for the right mix," he said. "Hopefully, the changes will provide a spark." 
In addition to new lines, a change was made in net. 
Sophomore Wade Salzman will get his first career start tonight. After an impressive performance against Michigan, Schafer feels Salzman earned the chance. 
"It's a big start," Schafer said. "I think he's equal to the task." 
Although the Irish scored two shorthanded goals against Western Michigan, they have only converted one power play opportunity into a score in their first three games. 
"We have to have it on track soon," Schafer said. "Hope· fully, it will this weekend." 
The Irish will not have the luxury of adjusting to the changes against an easy oppo­nent. Michigan State will pose a tough test for the Irish. 
Ranked in the Sporting News' pre-season top ten. the Spartans return six of their top seven scorers from last year's club. Thus far, they have won three contest, while dropping one. 
However, Michigan State en­ters the weekend shorthanded, especially on the blue-line. A couple of key defensemen have suffered injuries and do not expect to see action this weekend against the Irish. Notre Dame will be looking to exploit their replacements. 
"Michigan State is a good team, but we can be too," Schafer observed. "We have to take advantage of whatever our opponents give us." 
Women's lnterhall Badin is the team to beat as the football playoffs begin this weekend. 
see page 18 
Friday, November 5, 1993 

Wotnen's soccer a-waits 
M CC semifinal opponent 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Spans Writer 
The third-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team begins its post-sea­son play this afternoon in Indianapolis when it com­petes in the semifinals of Midwestern Collegiate Conference women's soc­cer championships. 
The Irish. who are 17-2 overall, closed the regular season with a 6-0 record in the MCC and earned a bye in the first round due to their first place finish. 
In its three years as a member of the conference, the squad has never been defeated by a league oppo­nent. After tying Dayton 0­0 in its first game in 1991, the team has won 13 con­secutive games. 
This is the first year the MCC closed its women's soccer championship race with a tournament. The Irish claimed champi­onships in each of the past two seasons by finishing first in the conference. 
today with the winner of 
yesterday's Butler-Detroit Mercy match-up. The Bulldogs and the Lady Ti­tans finished fourth and fifth in the MCC. 
Butler would prove to be a more challenging oppo­nent for Notre Dame. Although the Irish defeat­ed both teams easily, the Bulldogs gave the Irish a much more difficult game. 
Junior Jodi llartwig scored two goals and added an assist as the Irish knocked off Butler 4­0 in the team's home debut. Sophomore Ashley Scharff and freshman Cindy Daws also scored. Freshman goalkeeper Jen Renola earned the first complete shutout of her Notre Dame career as the Irish defense held the Bulldogs to only two shots. 
The Irish defeated Detroit-Mercy 3-0 in their last regular season game. Daws led the team by scoring her 12th and 13th goals of the season. 
Regardless of who Notre Dame must face this weekend, it should not have much to worry about. 
The squad has not been seriously challenged by an MCC foe this year. 
"We've had good results in the past against them," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We feel like we can play better against them and I feel we have something to prove." 
"These kinds of games are even more of a chal­lenge because you go in with expectations that you should play well," said Daws. "The other teams have more incentive to beat us. It's harder to focus when you know you should do well." 
"Certainly. it's going to be a big game for any team we play." said Petrucelli. ·"They'll be excited about it. I'm hop­ing that we will have the same excitement." 
The Irish will need to guard against coming out sluggish since they have not played in a game in nearly two weeks. 
"We're tired of practic­ing, and now we want to play somebody," said tri­captain Andi Kurek. 

Irish volleyball seniors bid farewell 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Assistant Spans Editor 
. 

Janelle Karlan, Julie Harris, Molly Stark, and Dyan Boulac have all dedicated four years to bringing the Notre Dame volleyball team to national prominence. 
This year, more than ever, they have seen the results of their hard work, as the team has achieved a No. 17 ranking while playing top flight competition. 
Tonight at 7:30 in the J.A.C.C., the four Irish seniors hope to leave with a flourish, as they will step onto the court for the final time in a regular season home match, taking on MCC conference opponent Xavier. 
"I think the seniors are pretty spirited and looking forward to playing well," commented Irish head coach Debbie Brown, who was quick to point out that the seniors may see other home action this season if they achieve their pre-season goal of hosting an NCAA tournament game. 
Unfortunately for Stark, this final match will have to be seen from the sidelines, as she sprained her ankle in practice Wednesday and will be forced to sit out the match. 
The timing is especially bad in Stark's case, as she had been playing at the top of her game, earning MCC player-of-the -week hon­ors last week based on her performance on the team's west coast swing, where she added her second career triple double and augment­ed her career total of 113 blocks, which is fifth on Notre Dame's career blocks list. 
With Stark out of the lineup, freshman Jen Briggs will likely step into the starting rota­tion. Briggs has played both middle blocker and outside hitter for Notre Dame this season, and has played well in crucial situations, often entering games to serve important points. 
Amid the excitement over the final home match, the Irish must not lose their fo<;;us on a 
see SENIORS I page 15 
Men's lnterhall Big rivalries create excitement for Sunday's first round. 
see pages 16-17 The Observer/Jake Peters Christy Peters and the rest of the Irish senior volleyball players play their last home game tonight. . 

Soccer Notre Dame dominates the Midwestern Collegiate Conference soccer awards. see page 15 










