The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 72 MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
In Bush's last days, U.S. mounts strikes on Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The United States on Sunday un­leashed a punishing shower of Tomahawk missiles against an Iraqi military complex just eight miles from~owntown Baghdad, forcefully delivering "the politi­cal and diplomatic point" that Iraq must comply with United Nations resolutions. 
In a dramatic crescendo for President Bush's final weekend in office, U.S. forces shot down a MiG-23 warplane and struck an Iraqi air defense installation. Hours later. U.S. warships launched more than 30 Toma­hawks into the night skies near Iraq's capital. 
U.S. troops to depart Somalia 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­The U.S. Marines will send their first combat troops home Tuesday as the United States moves toward transferring military control of Somalia to a 
U.N. command, perhaps within two weeks, a spokesman said Sunday. 
But the spokesman, Marine Col. Fred Peck, stressed that the Security Council had not yet adopted resolutions necessary for the transfer or decided on a command structure and the rules of engagement. 
The announcement of the departure of a battalion of 850 Marines came on one of the quietest days in Somalia since 
U.S. troops landed Dec. 9 tore­store order in a nation that has lost 350,000 people to famine, fighting and disease in the last year. An additional 2 million people are considered at risk. 
For the first time, Peck told the daily briefing: "I don't have anything to announce today (on fighting). It was a very quiet day." 
In still another indication of improving security, a convoy of 25 trucks carrying nearly 400 tons of food set out for the first time over 400 treacherous miles to western Somalia. French troops accompanied the convoy. 
"The roads have not been used," said Brenda Barton, spokeswoman for the World 
see SOMALIA I page 4 

White House spokesman Mar­willing to hit him close to home.
• Clinton reaction I page 6 
lin Fitzwater said the United Like last Wednesday's
possibility of further U.S.-led
States had targeted the non-nu­hostilities, it was a limited 
raids. U.N. officials want Iraq to
clear cruise missiles at a action unlikely to expose U.S. 
allow unconditional travel into
nuclear fabrications plant in forces to much risk. 
Iraq by U.N. weapons in­
response to a series of weekend Baghdad was lit by bright 
spectors and guarantee their
military provocations by Iraq. blasts of anti-aircraft fire from 
safety.

Defense Secretary Dick Ch­Iraqi gunners. It was not imme­
Bush was at Camp David, Md., 
eney said Iraqi leader Saddam diately known whether the at­
for the weekend and made no
Hussein "is determined to tack was successful. "We don't 
statement.

create a confrontation in the have a damage assessment at 
Cheney referred to Saddam as
closing days of the Bush this point," said Fitzwater. 
a "pathetic figure" for testing
administration," and The operation did not involve 
the U.S. presidential transition
emphasized that Bush would any allied warplanes, and 
and the resolve of the United
not flinch. lasted about two hours. 
Nations coalition that defeated
In New York, the United Na­The nuclear-weapons site in 
Iraq in the 1991 Gulf War. 

tions rejected Iraq's latest the suburb of Zaafraniyeh, a 
The attack put Saddam on no­
conditions for weapons scant eight miles from down­
tice that the United States was
inspection, raising the town Baghdad, was attacked 

By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Associate News Editor 
Armed not with weapons or hostility but with banners and words of peace, a group of stu­dents calling itself the Coalition for Peace gathered Friday in the quad opposite the bookstore to protest the most recent allied bombing of Iraq. 
The noon-time demonstration took the form of a of a symbolic "die-in," in which approximately 10 students positioned themselves on the snowy ground in order to represent Iraqi citizens reported killed in these bombing raids. The students remained in this position for the duration of the half hour protest. 
Other members of the group held signs reading "Arab Blood is Human Blood" and "No peace with Bombs," while still others distributed press releases ex­plaining their position. 
The protesters' intentions were two-fold: to express their rejection of the use of violence to achieve political aims of peace and justice and to raise awareness and discussion in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, according to group leader Jasmin Habib. 
"We oppose all escalation of violence in the region and propose nonviolent sanctions," Habib said. 
She emphasized that the group was not taking sides, but called for solutions that are in

Learning something new 
accord with international law 

Pangborn freshman Emily Hansen studies work displayed in the 
and United Nations resolutions. 

architecture building. Touring the building can be of interest to all "A double standard is being 
students with the presentations of historical architectural works. played out here," she said. 
with missiles fired from U.S. warships in the Persian Gulf and Red Sea. Each missile was armed with a 984-pound non­nuclear warhead. 
The plant has been dormant, according to International Atomic Energy Agency spokesman David Kyd, who said it was visited by inspectors in June 1991 and subsequently. He said it was "absolutely out of action." 
However, a senior Pentagon official insisted that the site was "key" to the Iraqi nuclear weapons program. Not all the buildings at the site were tar-
see IRAQ I page 4 


Group protests bombing of Iraq 
"United Nations resolutions are not being followed." 
The demonstration also stressed human factors and the effect of war upon the innocent. 
Habib expressed concern that bombs are not always completely accurate in hitting solely political targets and said, "Bombs are not just something that drop out of the sky-they kill people and the civilians they kill have nothing to do with Saddam Hussein." 
"We feel sorry for the people there," added a member of the group who chose not to be iden­tified. "It is the people who suffer the most." 
"Human lives are the bottom line," said Habib. 
Though the sight of students laying in the snow surrounded by a red dye symbolizing spilt blood may have been a shocking one for some passersby, the group said it hoped that the demonstration would generate awareness and dialogue. 
"The students on this campus are ignorant of international is­sues. They are not aware of what happens outside their nation," said protestor Abir Khater. "We hope they open their ears a little bit and their hearts too," she added. 
As if in response, music in­cluding the Cure's piece "Killing an Arab" resonated from a win­dow in Dillon Hall and two stu­dents ran amid the prostrate bodies throwing a football. 
"It (the demonstration) is just a start," said Khater acknowledging the disruptions. "It might not help that much." 
Like most of the other 
see PEACE I page 4 

Saint Mary's plans events for King Day 
By KATIE CAPUTO •the campus band Sister News Writer Chain will perform at noon at Haggar College Center parlor; In celebration of Martin 
• March I page 3
Luther King Day, Saint Mary's College will sponsor the •a prayer service will be following presentations held in the Little Theatre at 
dealing with attitudes on 4:15p.m.; peace and racism: •buses will be leaving from 
•a videotape of King's "I the Regina Hall lobby at 6 p.m. Have a Dream" speech will be to transport students to the shown continuously in the South Bend/Mishawaka Great Hall of LeMans from 9 Community Celebration at am through 4 p.m.; see KING I page 4 
Saint Mary's to begin nursing program 
By CHRISTINA CANNON eligible to take the National Board of Nursing, said News Writer Council Lincendure Widerquist. Examination to become regis­The program is limited to 10 
Saint Mary's will offer a 13-tered nurses, said McLaughlin. students and offered to those month accelerated nursing pro­Saint Mary's decided to who have earned a bachelor's gram starting this summer. initiate the program because a or other advanced degree in 
The accelerated program will large number of Saint Mary's studies other than nursing. 
consist of a 13-week summer graduates have called the Applicants must meet all of the session beginning in June 1993, nursing department seeking an standard admission two semesters during the col­accelerated degree, according requirements of Saint Mary's, lege's 1993-94 academic year to JoAnn Widerquist, associate said McLaughlin. 
and a final session in the sum­professor of nursing. For applications and mer of 1994,. said Brett Although Loyola of Chicago registration information contact McLaughlin, director of public started a similar program last the Saint Mary's nursing relations at Saint Mary's. year, Saint Mary's pilot program department at 284-4680. 
After completing the is the only one of its kind avail­Applications are due Feb. 15, program, graduates will be able in the state and has re­1993. ceived approval from the State 
Monday, January 18, 1993

page 2 The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


There was no good reason to forget MLK day 
Some believe that it is a true atrocity that Notre Dame does not honor Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday, a national holiday, by cancelling classes for the day. 
This is true. But it is 

also an atrocity that Labor Day, a national  Kenya Johnson  
holiday in remembrance  Assistant Accent Editor  
of  several Americans  

who were murdered for-------­striking against unjust working conditions, is not honored. And let's not forget that Notre Dame also overlooks Veterans Day, a national holiday as well; a day devoted to those who have served our country, either V'?luntarily or forced by the government, in the armed forces. I have no intention of wasting good column space with "Notre Dame bashing." So long as Notre Dame is being consistent with its lack o acknowledgment of these meaningful holidays, there's no problem. But there is a problem when a day like today goes by without any recognition what-so-ever. Today is the observation of Martin Luther King's birthday-the day when our country was 
blessed with the birth of a great man who lead people, black and white, to a somewhat "better" America. 
Yet as we walk from DeBartolo to O'Saughnessy or from the dorms to the dining halls, this day, or rather the meaning of this day, tends to be forgotten. 
Thankfully, Saint Mary's is sponsoring some events in King's memory, but I am appalled that there are no events going on today in memory o Dr. King at Notre Dame. 
Some are blaming the African-American associations for not planning anything. Others are blaming the University for not having a day of commemoration. And undoubtedly, student government is receiving a lot of heat too. 
The problem is that too many people are blaming others, and in doing so, relieving themselves of the responsibility. People assumed "some one else would take care it" and in the end, nobody did. 
As a result, all of Notre Dame has suffered. There will be no fireside chats, no remembrance march, no showing of "Eyes On The Prize", no religious service in King's honor. There will be nothing. This is not what one would expect from a prestigious international university. 
If I remember correctly, part of King's teachings included working as a team in order to get goals accomplished. The best thing anyone could have done was come together and plan events together, just as King would have liked. 
Perhaps, had not I assumed also, I would have even planned something myself. Now I know. Now we all know. 
Nevertheless, HAPPY BIRTHDAY DR. KING! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Systems  
Becky Barnes  Jon Halloran  
Kenya Johnson  
Viewpoint  
Production  Honora Buckley  
Cyn  


COLD WARM STATIONARY 

~ [ll] 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Burns Celebrates 97th Birthday 
•LAS VEGAS, Nev. -George Burns, whose birthday 
is Wednesday, has promised to play the Palladium on his 100th birthday. If Saturday night's show before about 800 people was an indication, he'll have a warm reception. The crowd rose to its feet, cheering and applauding, as a puff of cigar smoke wafted from behind a stage curtain, followed by a grinning, bespectacled, cigar-

puffing Burns. Burns said age  Burns  
hasn't kept him from singing,  
cracking jokes or dating younger  women.  "Why  

shouldn't I be a country singer?" he asked in a prelude to a song. ''I'm older than most countries." As for dating, "I don't go out with women my age," he explained. "There are no women my age." 
CAMPUS 

Sacred Heart rings bells for Clinton 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-The bells of Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the oldest carillon in North America, rang at 6 p.m. EST Sunday as part of the national "Bells for Hope" observance that leads off inaugural activities for President-elect Bill Clinton. The President-elect, Vice President-elect AI Gore and their families initiated the bell ringing at Arlington National Cemetery, where they rang a replica of the Liberty Bell. 
OF INTEREST 

•Martin Luther King Day celebrations. Saint Mary's Collge is sponsoring a variety of events to invite the community to live the values for which Dr. King gave his life. An Interfaith Prayer Service Service will be held at 
4:15 p.m., Litttle Theatre, Moreau Hall. Call 284-5391 for further information. 
•Summer employment at Camp Manito-Wish YMCA, a preimer high adventure camp located in the Northwoods of Wisconsin, is recruiting for summer employment. Come meet staff recruiters and learn more 
MARKET UPDATE 

Carillons at hundreds of churches, colleges and universities around the nation, as well as the bells of San Francisco's cable cars and an electronic bell aboard t~e ~pace shuttle Endeavor, took part in the Sunday bell rmgmg. 
•NOTREAME, Ind.-Saint Mary's senior Kim Didriksen was presented with the the Ernest and Young Accounting Award. This monetary award is given annually to an outstanding accounting major in the senior class of Saint Mary's. The same presentation is aw~rded at every college and university throughout the Umted States. After graduation Didriksen will enter the Ernest and Young Company as a staff auditor. 
Law Adviso~ Council member dies 
about Manito-Wish today at Hagger College Center at Saint Mary's in room 303 from 7:30-9 p.m. 
•SuperSibs, a recreational Big sibling/little group is lookmg for ND students with handicapped siblings to share some quality time with these 8-12 year old siblings of Logan clients. If you are interested please come to an informative meeting on Wednesday Jan. 20 at 7:30p.m. 
in the CSC lounge.  Any questions, call Molly at 233­ 
4925.  -------­ 
--­ 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1788: The first English settlers arrived in Austrailia's Botany Bay to establish a penal colony. 

• 
In 1912: English explorer Robert Scott and his expedition reached the South Pole, only to discover that Roald Amundsen had beaten them there. 

• 
In 1919: The World War I peace Congress opened inVer­sailles, France. 

• 
In 1956: In Berlin, Parliament approved the creation of East German People's Army. 

• 
In 1990: Soviet reserve troops were sent to the republic of Azerbaijan, where ethnic riots had killed at least 66 people. 

• 
In 1991: Iraqi President Saddam Hussein launched a missile attack on Israel during the Persian Gulf War. 


Melis Accent Lynn Bauwens Sports John Fischer George Dohrmann Sarah Doran 
Illustrator Graphics 
Steve Duenes Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 15 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 280,039,500 +1.48 to 239.60 S&P COMPOSITE 

+2.91 to 435.94 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+4.32 to 3,267.88
UNCHANGED 561 

GOLD 

-$0.30 to $327.30/oz 
SILVER 

-$0.022 to $3.675/oz 
i) 
Cloudy and cold today with a chance of flurries and highs in the mid 20s. Partly sunny Friday and high in the lower 30s. 


City 
Anchorage Atlanta Bogota Cairo Chicago Cleveland Dallas Detrott 
Jerusalem

1'-~·
London Los Angeles Madrid Minneapolis Moscow Nashville N-York Paris Philadelphia Rome Seanle 
South Bend 
Tokyo Washington. D.C. 
H L 21 18 50 48 68 45 61 45 35 32 38 34 61 30 31 30 37 38 50 37 52 45 53 49 48 38 35 28 39 32 57 48 37 38 48 41 44 42 82 44 41 33 34 33 52 37 43 42 

---------·--------------~---------­
page 3

Monday, January 18, 1993 The Observer 

Dandelion gains girl inaugural invitation 
By THERESA ALEMAN News Writer 
A bouquet of dandelions gained Ramal Taylor, an eight· year-old South Bend resident, an invitation to the presidential inaugural ceremonies as one of the presi* dent-elect's 60 "Faces of Hope." 
Ramal, a third-grader at Stanley Clark elementary school, handed Hillary Clinton the dandelions last May when the future First Lady visited the Northeast Neighborhood Service Center of South Bend on the campaign traiL 
Ramal, her mother Arlene, and her grandmother Mar­guerite received the invitation to the ceremonies on Decem· ber 27. All expenses of the trip, including Bloomingdale's evening gowns for the three, will be paid by the ClintQn in· auguralcommittee. 
The Taylor's will .remain .in,· Washington for six days. 
"They sent us a list of a.ctiVi.,. ties siX pages long," said Mar.* guerite. · 
The three will spend thehi days, among other things, at~ tending a parade, fireworks display, White House Tour and. a Faces of Hope luncheon where they will meet pr.esh dent-elect Bill Clinton and vice.*president·elect AI Gore. 
"It's like a dream come true~ only 1 never even dreamed something like this could hap~ pen," said Marguerite. "This is all Ramal can talk ahont..fc!'r weeks. It's very exciting f<>r all ofus:· 




OBC JAPAN 
OBC English Conversation School is offering full time teaching positions beginning in August 1993. Excellent working conditions and salary. Open to all majors. Japanese speaking ability not required. 
Interviewing at Career & Placement Center Feb. 11th & 12lli 
Grant to fund ethics program 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame has received a grant of $250,000 from the 
W.M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles to support a new pro­gram of clinical studies in legal ethics in the ND Law SchooL 
The new program, conceived by Thomas Shaffer, Robert and Marion Short Professor of Law, will examine issues of legal ethics in the light of cases un~ dertaken by the law school's Legal Aid Clinic. "In essence," Shaffer said, "we propose to combine the law school's aca· demic commitment to ethics with its active program of clini­cal legal instruction." 
The Law School's Legal Aid Clinic, co-directed by Eileen Do­ran and Barbara Gasperetti, both associate professional spe­cialists in the law school, pro­vides free legal services to poor people in Michiana. Each year, 40 law students serve in the clinic, which operates year· round both from its offices in the Law School and at the Cen­ter for the Homeless in South Bend. The clinic has around 200 open cases at any given time. 
By serving in the clinic and taking the legal aid course as­sociated with it, a law student can earn up to eight semester hours of credit. 
The school plans to use the clinic as a "sort of textbook for instruction in legal ethics," and the centerpiece for a two· semester legal aid course which will be offered to law students beginning next fall, Shaffer said. "Law students, many of whom might not otherwise be involved with the clinic, will discuss presentations by clinic interns and supervising attorneys on the ethical ramifications of current cases." 

"We are deeply grateful for this important grant," said Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy. "The Notre Dame Law School's distinctive com­mitment to the teaching of ethics will surely be enhanced by the unique and innovative program which the Keck Foundation has helped make possible." 
The WM. Keck Foundation, now one of the nation's largest charitable organizations, was established in 1954 by the late William Myron Keck, founder of the Superior Oil Company, to support accredited colleges and universities with particular emphasis on the sciences, engineering and medical re­search. 
Caretta King calls march a' wake-up calt' 
ATLANTA (AP) -Coretta Scott King wants Americans to join a national march on Washington this summer to shake the United States out of a decade of apathy during which she said racism was allowed to flourish. 
"We're going back to Washington, not as an idle exercise in nostalgia, but to make a wake-up call to the slumbering conscience of our democracy," the slain civil rights leader's widow said Sunday in her annual "State of the Dream" speech. Monday is Martin Luther King Day. 
"We go back to Washington because we still have that un­honored check that Martin Luther King Jr. talked about in his dream, the check that promises that all Americans would be guaranteed the inalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," Mrs. King said. 
The march would mark the 30th anniversary of her husband's "I have a dream" speech on Aug. 28, 1963. A 20th anniversary march drew 500,000 people. 
Mrs. King called a 1993 march a "great lobby for needed social and economic reforms." 
"The cancer of racism 

·flourished during the last decade and a climate of hostility to civil rights was permitted to fester in America, including the Supreme Court and the Justice Department," Mrs. King said. 
She also criticized the U.S. policy of forcibly repatriating Haitian refugees, an action many civil rights leaders have called racist. 
She called the recent fighting in iraq inhumane, saying a stronger United Nations is needed. At home, she said better health care for children is needed. 



Aetna will be on campus interviewing students for the following· career opportunities 
I programmer analysts I 
I claim representatives I 
j employee benefits representatives 
Descriptions of the careers are located in your career services department If you would like us to consider you for an interview, drop your resume off at Career Services between January 18 and 20. We will notify those students who meet the pre-selection criteria to arrange an interview in February 

You expect a lot. So do we. 
page 4 


Iraq 
continued from page 1 

geted, he added. lie described it as a "multi-billion dollar facility," that used high-tech computers to manufacture components used in the uranium enrichment process for nuclear weapons. 
"Our intent here was to do serious damage to the facility. ... It is of high value to the Iraqi military," he said. 
Queried about damage to the 

King 
continued from page 1 
Century Center; 

•a program on cultural di­versity and racism will be pre­sented Tuesday at 4:15 p.m. in room 231 West Madeleva.; 
•finishing the series, a sec-

Somalia 
continued from page 1 

Food Program. "It's much cheaper if we can manage to move food by road on a regular basis. That means we're going to be able to gradually wind down the airlift operation." 
Mohamed Farah Aidid, one of Somalia's most powerful war­lords, predicted a 3-day-old cease-fire among the country's warring factions would hold. 
"I believe it will be imple­mented correctly," he told re­porters when he returned from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, where the agreement was signed by 14 factions Friday. 

Peace 
continued from page 1 

students involved in the demonstration, Habib and Khater are graduate students from the University's Kroc Institute for lnternationarPeace Studies. As students of peace, many of whom are inter­national students as well, the group's show of condemnation of the aggression was their "duty," according to Habib. 
Correction 

The Observer incorrectly reported the dates of this semester's study days. They are April 29 and 30. The Ob­server regrets the error. 

AI Rasheed hotel in Baghdad, the official said U.S. military planners "absolutely" had not targeted the hotel. Although the official said the damage ap­peared to have come from mis­siles in the Iraqi arsenal, he said he could not totally rule out that some damage may have been caused by U.S. weaponry. 
An Iraqi army photographer outside the hotel showed re­porters a piece of metal he said he found at the site. The frag­ment bore the markings of the 
U.S. company that makes the turbo-fan engine for the Toma­hawk cruise missile. 
ond talk on cultural diversity and racism will take place on Wednesday at 6 p.m. in room 231 East Madeleva. 
The programs are open to all members of the campus com­munity, free of charge, and are sponsored by the College's Campus Ministry and Office of Minority, International and Non-traditional Student Life. 


The Observer Monday, January 18, 1993 
The Observer/Michelle DiRe 

Oh what a feeling! 
Dillon roommates senior Clarke Rogers and junior Robert Escalera have as much fun as they can before the stress of another semeter settles in their lives. 


FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK. 


Happy Birthday Deb! 
Now that you are 18 you can: 
l)VOTE! (oops! You missed the election!) Z)Be drafted! (oops! You're the wrong sex!) 3)Make dirty phone calls without parental consent! 
..well one out of three isn't bad! 
Love, Your family from Buffalo and 2A 
Open the door to yourfuture with 



aUMMBA. 
Fulfill your dreams with an MBA from UM. We offer flexible and innova­tive programs such as our one-year MBA for students with an under­graduate business degree and our two-year program for bachelors students without a business degree. Both of these programs offer you the opportunity to pursue two complementary specializations such as: 
• 
Finance and International Business 

• 
Marketing and Computer Information Systems 


• 
Health Administration and Human Resource Management 

• 
Marketing and Strategic Management 

• 
Accounting and Computer Information Systems 



With our dual degree Masters in International Business (MIBS), you will earn an MBA and a Master of Science in International Business with a guaranteed internship in the country of your selected language speCialty. 
As you approach graduation and complete your program, our place· ment office is solely dedicated to finding employment opportunities for our graduate business students. 
If you are intrigued by these challenging and rewarding opportunities, call us at 1-800-531·7137, and we will show you how to get started on the rest of your life. 


GRADUATE BUSINESS PROGRAMS, P.O. BOX 248505, CORAL GABLES, FL 33124-6524 
•
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


OC&B. I


'Qt1ca
One. 
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  ( 1/2 Mi. S. of UnlversHy Pork Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  

Monday, January 18, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Bush knew about documents 
WASHINGTON (AP) -George Iran arms sales -was a fact Bush apparently knew in the . known to only a few MOPle early days of the lran~Contra inside the Reagan affair that a presidential administration. document stored in John The Nov. 15 diary entry­Poindexter's safe contained a among 45 pages of excerpts re­secrecy provision that hid the leased Friday by the White Iran arms sales from Congress, House --is the first indication according to Bush's tape~ that Bush had this Information recorded diaries. about that aspect of the Iran 
The Nov. 15, 1986 diary entry initiative. referring to national security Bush's diary entry did not adviser Poindexter came 11 specify , which of th;ree days after word of the arms­presid(:Hltial findings ·~e Wj~$ for-hostages deals first became referring to. One was from public in the United States. Dec. 5, 1985 ratifying ClA 
At the time, the existence and involvement in a shipment of whereabouts of a "finding," -18 Hawk missiles to Iran the a document signed by the previous month. Two others president which authorized the from January 1986 authorized 

CAMPUS Racquetball Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Volleyball 
IH Team Racquetball 
Grad/Fac/Staff Volleyball 

DEADLINE -JANUARY 20 
CAMPUS Indoor Soccer -Men & Women Badminton Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Water Volleyball 
IH Swim Relays 


DEADLINE -JANUARY 27 
ATTENTION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME JUNIORS! 
Come find out about Summer Internship Opportunities in Information Systems at The Travelers. 
SUMMER JOB FAIR Wednesday, January 20, 1993 Monogram Room, JACC 1:00-5:00 p.m. 
* 
Please bring resume and transcript. 

* 
Interviews to be held January 21, 1993. 

* 
All positions will be located in Hartford, Connecticut. 



TheTravelerSj 
You're better off under the Umbrella.® 
tQ 1992 The Travelers Companies, Harford, Conncctirut 06183 An Equal Opportw1ity Employer 
Money crunch threatens minority enrollment gain 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Rising tuition, state college budget cuts and financial aid uncertainties threaten to reverse recent gains in minority student enrollment, a consortium of universities and colleges warned Sunday. 
The American Council on Ed­ucation in its annual report urged Congress and the Clinton administration to come to the rescue, arguing minorities will most certainly be hit by the cur­rent money pinch. 
"It is absolutely essential that the federal government renew its commitment to guaranteeing education opportunity for all qualified students regardless of their financial resources," the group's president, Robert Atwell, said. "Access by minori­ties to higher education is in peril." 
The council's report said there was already evidence that bud­get crunches in California and New York had contributed to declines in minority enrollment. 
Clinton has proposed creating a National Service Trust to allow students to borrow money for college education and repay the cost through public service or payroll deductions at tax time. The plan would replace a federal program that provided $13 bil­lion in loans to 4.8 million stu­dents in 1991. 

College administrators have urged the new administration to use Clinton's proposal to target poor minority students. 
"My personal gut feeling is that the financial situation is by far the major reason for our students to leave school or not to come at all," said Howard University president Franklyn Jenifer, whose campus is pre­dominantly black. 
ACE, which has 1,500 mem­ber colleges and universities, said in its annual "Minorities in Higher Education" report that despite recent gains blacks and Hispanics are still far Jess likely than whites to attend college. 
The group said more than a third of all whites ages 18 to 24 were enrolled in college in 1991, compared to about 24 percent for blacks and 18 percent for Hispanics. 



Sorry is is late ••• 
hope you've 

unwound in time 
to celebrate. 

Love-Mo, Michelle, & Kevin 


ND/SMC SENIORS 
Senior Month Starts Now! 
GET INVOLVED! 
Pick up applications at Information Desk in LaFortune and at Haggar Front Desk Deadline Wednesday at 5:00 
Questions? 
Call Chris (634-3486) or Sean (634-1654) 

One out of two people who take the LSAT don't 
get  into  law school.  To  improve  those odds,  
Practice with Kaplan  now--so  you  can  be  a  
practicing lawyer  later.  

Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 



KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
~-~~-­
-----~-----~­
page 6 The Observer Monday, January 18, 1993 
Clinton opens inaugural tour 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Sur­rounding themselves with sym­bols of America's heritage, Bill Clinton and AI Gore on Sunday opened four days of star­studded pageantry and glitzy parties in the final countdown to their inauguration. 
Arriving earlier than ex­pected, the bus caravan carrying Clinton and Gore crossed the Potomac River to the Lincoln Memorial in mid­afternoon where a crowd of thousands of people were waiting for the president-elect and a late afternoon concert featuring a bell-wringing ceremony and fireworks. 
The mood of celebration and anticipation in the nation's capital was tempered by another military showdown with Iraq. Clinton said he was in frequent contact with the White !louse. President Bush monitored the crisis from his mountaintop retreat at Camp David. 
The incoming president began the day in central Virginia visit­ing Monticello, the historic home of Thomas Jefferson, father of the Democratic Party and author of the Declaration of Independence. 
"I want to be faithful to Jeffer­son's idea that about once in a generation you have to shake things up and face your prob­lems," said Clinton. "We owe it 
Torch passes 
· Thirty-two years ago, on a frigid Washington morning, a young man told his nation that "the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans, born in this century, tempered by war ..." 
The speaker was 43-year-old John F. Kennedy. His generation had known the 
Depression,  had  fought  
overseas,  had  been  
emboldened  by  postwar  

prosperity and embroiled in Cold War politics. 
Turn the page. This week, a 46-year-old man will take the inaugural podium. And with him, a very different generation of Americans takes center stage -men and women· born at midcentury, tempered by the fire at borne over the Vietnam War, plagued by diminished expectations of a better life. 
Once again, the torch is passed. 
to Thomas Jefferson and George Washington and all our forebears to face the difficult, difficult problems of our time and to try to solve them." 
Outgoing Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said Iraq was only "one of a long list of problems" facing Clinton and that the new president will be hampered by his slow pace of appointments, particularly at the Pentagon. 

"It's very important to try to have some continuity," Cheney said on ABC. "Most of the key spots below the Cabinet level have not been filled." 
Jefferson's home at Monticello was the starting point of a trademark bus trip to Washing­ton by Clinton and Gore, passing through old hamlets in the Virginia countryside and Civil War battlegrounds. Thousands of well-wishers stood along the roadway during the 121-mile journey, waving flags and cheering the incoming administration. 
Clinton and Gore were accom­panied by their wives, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Tipper Gore. 
Each vehicle in the 15-bus caravan carried an "An Ameri­can Reunion" banner on its side proclaiming Clinton's inaugura­tion theme. 
There was a festive air in the capital, as well. Hotels were fill­ing up with the first of hundreds of thousands of inaugural visitors, including hundreds of celebrities slated to perform at inaugural celebrations and balls. 
Clinton supports Bush action against Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Bill Clinton said Sun­day the U.S. missile strike against Iraq was "appropriate and forceful." His press secre­tary said the incoming adminis­tration was "prepared to con­tinue taking appropriate action until Iraq complies." 
Clinton and his advisers took a tough line toward Iraq as the incoming president arrived in Washington for his inauguration on Wednesday. 
Moments after Clinton's bus pulled up to the Lincoln Memo­rial for an inaugural festivity, his deputy national security adviser, Sandy Berger boarded the vehicle to brief the incoming president. 
There was no sign of retreat from the military confrontations between the Bush administra­tion and Iraq. "We're prepared to continue taking appropriate action until Iraq complies" with United Nations resolutions, said press secretary Dee Dee Myers. 
Clinton's communications 


No one prepa,..... you for the MCAT bettfM' than Kaplan. Our MCAT prep course teaches you exactly what the t<>St covers and the t<>St· aking akilla you'll need to score your beat. w.. offer live classes, llo<ne atucly not-, and audio review. Pius, no one else has a more extensive MCAT ,.....,urce library than Kaplan. 




KAPLAN 
The anawer to the teat qu-tion. 
chief, George Stephanopoulos said Iraqi leader Saddam Hus­sein "doesn't realize that there is no daylight between President Bush and President Clinton on this." 






Free: 

Brown Bag Lunch 
& 

Inspiring Reading Little Professor Book Center 

celebrates 

National Book Week 
Friday, January 22nd at noon with the oratory of Dr. James O'Rourke 
Sack lunch provided so call to reserve your brown bag: 277-4488 By 5 p.m. Thursday, January 21:;~ ,._:..BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
~oD \ OOK CENTE . 
Ironwood Plaza North • State Hoad 23 at lronwooJ •Snt~!h llcnd. IN t1fi:)o1S • r-1on.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 SunJay: 10:00-SOO 

Poor not forgotten amid the inaugural glitz 
WASHINGTON (AP) -If there's a certain awkwardness in the image of sequined gala­goers clutching cans of food for the homeless. well, Democrats will be Democrats. 
The inaugural extravaganza can't help but highlight the gap between the comfortable celebrants and the downtrodden they espouse to champion. The capital is filled with Democrats clad in their finest, flitting from one lavish event to another, averting their eyes for the moment from the less fortunate. 
Good intentions abound -a food drive sponsored by the 
Presidential  Inaugural  
Committee,  an  unofficial  
inaugural  ball  for  the  

homeless, another ball benefitting two local charities, and numerous events for the ordinary ''hardworking Ameri­cans" President-elect Clinton pledged to remember in the White House. 
But to many, the overriding impression of the week is big names, big bucks, big cars ­and big ambivalence. 
"This is supposed to be a new day and a new president. the people's president, and they're sweeping homeless people off the streets," ·said Carol Fennelly, who organized the homeless ball. 
Still, she's resisting requests to lead protests. "This is not the time to be a spoiler. The man hasn't even gotten into office yet," she said. "And I do understand that people want to have a blowout. They are so glad to see the end of George Bush and Ronald Reagan and all that they symbolize." 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
St. Mary's News Editor-
Please submit a personal statement to Anna Tabor by 5 p.m., Monday, Jan. 19. Questions, call 631-4540 or 284-5365 
Monday, January, 18, 1993 _ The Observer page 7 

r--------c~rus~mffiwr--------~ 
Civil war escalates in Bosnia 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegov­ina (AP) -Yugoslav and Bosnian government forces dueled with artillery Sunday in a sharp escalation of Bosnia's civil war, while Bosnian troops fought to cut off rebel Serbs from their Yugoslav allies. 
The cross-border shelling marked the first time Yugoslavia has acknowledged intervening in the war since withdrawing its troops seven months ago from this former Yugoslav republic. 
A U.N. convoy, meanwhile, reportedly reached a Muslim­held town in eastern Bosnia that had been cut off by Serb militants for months. The convoy was carrying tons of relief supplies to Zepa, where scores of people have reportedly died of cold, starvation and disease in recent weeks. 
The convoy was to spend the night in Zepa before returning Sunday to Sarajevo, 40 miles to the west, said Alemka Lisinski, spokeswoman for U.N. refugee operations in Zagreb, Croatia. 
There was no immediate word of what the relief workers found in the town. 

mbeNettr!orl<mimes 
ONLY 30 CENTS/DAY MON~SAT 
( ) MON~FRI~ $19.50 ( ) MON~SUN~ $55.80 ( ) MON~SAT~ $22.80 ( ) SUN ONLY~ $33.00 
DELIVERY BEGINS MON, JANUARY 25 AND ENDS FRI, APRIL 30 NO DELIVERY DURING SPRING BREAK (MARCH 6~14) MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: BILL LANE 
Name _________________________________Phone 
Address__________________________ 
IClip & Mail to: Bill Lane Or Call634,4336 I P.O. Box 885 1 ~ Notre Dame, In 46556~0885 
(This is NOT campus mail!) .J
L-------------------------.-. 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
~. 
OlyrnpiCM.
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
AWARDSOONA.Tiill.Yl'VTRE. DAME AJ...UMNJ AH>ClATJON • POSTli.RS PRINTEDIJY AVE MARIA PRE$ • CO~NSlNCCX>PERATION' WITHUN1VERST'i PCXJD SERVJ:ES 
l 
I 
hundreds of flapping blue tents. thousands of barefoot refugee children huddled :together for shelter from a bitter wind howling across the desolate plains of northern Afghanistan. 
In the trrst week of January, 
.....,,,_,.,i,., temperatures and an . of measles killed 25 ··· the frigid no man's 
of the wild Amu River that separates AH!lHtnis1tan and Tajikistan. 
The dead. most of them chil­dren or elderly, were among nearly 60,000 Tajlks who fled former Soviet republic month to escape a civil ·between the Communist 
and Islamic 

Tajiks said hundreds died trying to cross the Amu Darya. The swift current swept away small children clinging to their mothers' backs. 
"One woman lost two children like that, and then a third child died in the camp," said· Tel'ry Pitzner of Boston, Mass•• wM works for the U.N. refugee agency in the camp at Sakhl,1,5 miles from Mazar-e­Sharif, 
Refugees said soldiers trred at them as they fled their homeland by slipping through barbed wire and a huge marsh. then crossing the river in •rickety boats or. on flimsy rafts ·.. • tract()r tires lashed 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program at 


NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
INFORMATION MEETING on TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1993 122 HAYES-HEALY 4:30PM 
RECENT RETURNEES OF THE PROGRAM WILL BE ON HAND TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Students in Colleges of Arts and Letters, Business Administration,and Saint Mary's College Are Welcome! 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 , '94 school year Call 232 , 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
L-------------------------------------------------------~ •;-.-.-.--------------------~~~-~ ~ 

------------------------------------------------~---------------------~~-------­



Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, January 18, 1993 

Recent discussions of the homosexual issue indicate that many at Notre Dame believe that adherence to Church teaching on moral issues is a discretionary option. One rea­son for this misperception is the failure of this "Catholic" University to affirm to its own students the clear obligations of 
Charles E. Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

all Catholics toward the teach­ings of the Vicar of Christ. 
The governing principle here is truth-in-labeling, with its corollary mandate of full disclo­sure. You rely on that principle every time you pay $2.98 a pound for what the label tells you is ground round instead of $1.29 for the lowly ground beef. If the seller pulled a "bait and switch" by labeling miscel­laneous hamburger as if it were ground round, you could have a legal as well as a moral complaint. 
Hegrettably, the recent history of American Catholic uni­versities exemplifies the "bait and switch" with more than hamburger at stake. Notre Dame attracts alumni donors and prospective students by af­firmations of its "Catholic char­acter." 
Yet Notre Dame professes an orthodoxy of openness which is inconsistent with that character. As the first sentence of the Notre Dame President's Sesquicentennial Declaration put it, "Notre Dame's first commitment is to freedom of inquiry and expression." In practice this "first commitment" invites a process of endless inquiry without norms of content, which obscures the obligatory character of teach­ings of the Magisterium. 

JUST!C/3? YOU'RE 
6011-K370 JUSTICC'? 
I 
On the contrary, Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the Apostolic Consti­tution on Catholic Universities, affirms the importance of due freedom in the "search for truth." But it also enumerates as one of the "essential charac­teristics" of the Catholic uni­versity: "Fidelity to the Chris­tian message as it comes to us through the church." And, "the institutional fidelity of the Uni­versity to the Christian message includes a recognition of and adherence to the teaching authority of the church in mat­ters of faith and morals." 
Christ is God and the Pope is His Vicar, the visible head of His Church on earth. The Second Vatican Council's Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revela­tion states that "The task of authentically interpreting the word of God, whether written or handed on, has been en­trusted exclusively to the living teaching office of the Church, whose authority is exercised in the name of Jesus Christ." (No. 
10) 
That teaching office is pos­sessed by the Pope and the bishops in union with him. (Vatican II, Dogmatic Constitu­tion on the Church, No. 25). In his 1987 address to the bishops of the United States, Pope John Paul II noted that "there is a tendency on the part of some Catholics to be selective in their adherence to the Church's moral teachings. 

It is sometimes claimed that dissent from the Magisterium is totally compatible with being a 'good Catholic' and poses no obstacle to the reception of the sacraments. This is a grave er­ror that challenges the teaching office of the Bishops of the United States and elsewhere." 
More than two decades of teaching Notre Dame alumni in law school lead me to conclude that Notre Dame undergradu­ates are shortchanged in that they are not afforded a pre­dictable opportunity to learn what the Catholic Church ac­tually teaches about itself and about the binding character of its moral teachings. What they do learn in this area is likely to be filtered through the lens of a hostile professor. 
They can count on Campus Ministry to say some good 
things but rarely anything polit­ically incorrect. And it is the maximum political incorrect­ness to assert that one agrees with the moral teaching of the Pope and that all Catholics are bound to give to that teaching a "religious submission of will and of mind." (Vatican II, Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, No. 25) In truth, as John Paul II stated to the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

IA/&U, IT HASN'T8WI ANNOIJNCEO
ANGR.Y? HEAV&N5 NO, DeAR.! 
GRACIOUS, UM... IGUESS 

Y&T, 50 YOU CAN'T T/3U. ANYONEI
WHYIAIOUWI B&ANGR.Y? 
OtAR.! YaJU 50. BUTI'U..

BIJTI'M 601M3 TO 8E O&PUTY 
8tA/J!:iOI.IJ7&­5T!U BeI?RJV­
IT'S TIM& Yal !iTlJPPWaJORK­

A5SI5TANT TO THE ASSISTANT
ING FOR.. 7Hc COMMITT!£! 
lY PRIPPJN6 /NGMY(U}
ATTORNEY e6NPRAL!I 
f)JfTH POWeR! 81/!T&RE/?
WHAT FrETHAV& 
THEY Off&R&IJ 
I VOL-VO.\
/ your 
American bishops, there is no moral right for a Catholic to dissent from the teaching of the Magisterium. 
Notre Dame raises money on the strength of its Catholic pretensions. Yet Notre Dame's profession and practice implic­itly legitimize and even exalt dissent from Church teaching. If its officials were held in this matter to the labeling and dis­closure standards that govern lesser mortals, including sellers of hamburger, they would need a lawyer. 
It would be a constructive move to retrieve Ex Corde Ec­clesiae from the dead letter file and make it the focus of the continuing campus discussions of the "Catholic" character of Notre Dame. 
Professor Rice is on the fac­ulty of the Law School. His column appears every other Monday. 

Do you have a firm grasp of current events? 
Do you find yourself discussing them often? 
Do you have a perspective on politics and society that you think doesn't get enough press? ... 
The Observer's Viewpoint Department is currently recruiting regular columnists. Interested persons should send a one page personal statement to: 
Joe Moody 

Viewpoint Editor, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word in reality.' 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
QUOTES. PO. Box Q. N!J.IN 46556 
______------------·~
--·­

Monday, January 18, 1992 page 9 
Viewp0 i n t 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. fought injustice with knowledge 
Celebrating the Educated Ed­ucator: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Dear Editor: 
Activism; a term rooted in the word action, is defined in the dictionary as "the doctrine or policy of taking positive, direct action to achieve an end esp. a political or social end." ,.. ·~ '· 
In keeping with the definition of activism, when one hears the name of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. often what immediately comes to mind are the things taught pertaining to his work as an activist in the civil rights movement and the preaching 
.,,

he did as a minister. !···· ll' I\, "'~ !, .. : \I not~!,·. 
The amount of attention given 
''" j,,' I 1.1': 

to the status of Dr. King as an activist, overshadows his educational achievements and how he used his achievements to educate others in the larger Dr. King was a very well edu­lege, he writes: society. 
cated person. He graduated "My call to the ministry... from high school at age fifteen. came about in the summer ofIt is essential to note that Dr. 
During the fall of that same 1944 when I felt an inescapableKing saw that it was important year, he entered Morehouse urge to serve society. In short, Inot only to have knowledge, but 
College in Atlanta, Georgia felt a sense of responsibility
to use it along with actions to where he received a bachelors which I could not escape." 
fight against injustice. It is also degree in Sociology four years -February 1948not right to act without knowl­later.
edge to substantiate the thing in He wrote this as part of hiswhich one is trying to achieve. 
During his senior year of col-personal statement when he 
'Pro-black' does not mean Anti-white 
Dear Editor: together is also racist. years black quarterback is any 
As I was sitting in the Dining It is hard to believe that for a good. I'm sorry that we can't Hall enjoying my dinner with couple of hours a day with my walk into stores without being several of my friends, I almost African-American friends, we followed around to see if we'll choked on my wonderful meal are being racists. Yes, maybe pay for everything we'll leave when I read an unbelievably we are secluding ourselves, but with. ignorant article written by we are trying desperately to Robert E. Payne. survive in an environment that I'm sorry that most people 
Mr. Payne (The Observer, Jan. is inherently harsh and not think I am at this school be­
14) shows a great deal of understanding to us. cause of some quota. But what ignorance in trying to tell me He obviously displays this I am most sorry for is that we about racism. lack of understanding. In my are still fighting to be free to be 
And when I say he is ignorant eyes, as with most blacks on ourselves. To be able to cele­I do not meant that he is stupid campus who might not say brate ourselves without being or idiotic, but he just doesn't outright, we see the Notre accused of isolationism. To be know. Being an African Dame community as "us against able to get a job and do any­American on this campus is one them." thing we want to do. To be able of the hardest things for me to What is racism you ask? to feel comfortable and safe in do. Not a day goes by without Racism is having to go through our surroundings. So Mr. being reminded that the life with people who feel you Payne, I will continue to sit with majority of white people here are trash. Racism is having to African friends at dining halls don't like me simply because of sit with those of your African and I cheer for our black quar­my color. heritage to avoid racial slurs in terback, and I will try my 
First of all, by his examples, the dining halls. Racism is damnedest to stay close to my 
Mr. Payne knows nothing about being discriminated against race, only because I want my being a victim of racism. It because of how you look, dress, people to survive and to have enrages me to hear white and talk. Racism is what we pride in ourselves. people who complain about live with from day one. prejudices toward them. They It never fails to surprise me And I will also chill out with know nothing of how it is to be how white people get angry my white roommate. and hang me or how much anguish because of a little discomfort out with my fellow tuba players African-American endure. Do they feel when something who are white, and get com­not tell me about racism. beneficial to the African­puter advice from my blonde­
Second. African-Americans American community happens. haired blue-eyed friend. Just cannot, and I repeat, cannot be Well, Mr. Payne, that is what we because I am Pro-black, that racist. We have no such power go through twenty four hours a doesn't mean we are Anti­in this country to be racist. day. So I'm really sorry if you'll white. I wish all of you could Anyone can be prejudiced, but get stared at because you want understand, but I doubt it. we cannot be racist. So to Mr. to date an African American or Payne and others, it is not when you try to be a running And here is a hint for Mr. racist that I want to sit with my back. Robert E. Payne: Follow your fellow African brothers and But you know what else? I'm own advice and try not to write sisters. People tend to stick sorry that my brothers can't about things you don't know with who they know, and with drive down the street without about. people with common white officers pulling them over background and experiences. because "black guys always Cristiane J. Likely So then, you would also have to drive stolen cars." I'm sorry Pasquerilla West Hall agree that white people sitting that a lot of you don't think next Jan.14,1992 

applied to Crozer Theological Seminary. He knew that it would take more than an urge to "serve society". He wanted to utilize his gifts to the fullest capacity possible. That is why, he applied to the Seminary. He was accepted, hence, his deep seated need to serve others helped him to graduate at the top of his class with high honors from Crozer in 1950. From there he went on to Boston University where he later received his Ph.D. 

Looking at the educational level obtained by someone like Dr. King. We begin to see to see him as an example of what we need to consider as we choose majors or pursue different job opportunities. 
Are we planning to use our talents to the fullest extent pos­sible? How are we planning to use our education? Is it to ob­tain our own ends or to assist others in some way (large or small)? 
On February 8, 1993, Campus Ministry will be sponsoring a celebration of the memory of Dr. King as the educated edu­cator that he was and continues to be today. I, along with Priscilla Wong and the rest of the Campus Ministry staff, in­vite you to attend. More details will be posted in the coming week. 
Lena Jefferson Assistant Director Retreats and Special Projects Jan.13,1993 

We must fight racism with education and love 
Dear Editor: 
Anger swelled in me when I read Robert E. Payne's letter (The Observer, Jan. 14) regard­ing the reaction of some minor­ity groups on campus pertain­ing to racism at Notre Dame. 
Then I realized Mr. Payne was not prejudiced or spiteful towards people of color but simply ignorant of the racism that is frequently perpetrated at this University. 
Because I don't know what Mr. Payne has experienced in his lifetime, I can't say he has not felt the effects of racism first-hand. 
But it is obvious he has not seen what I have: an Asian stu­dent trembling as she re­counted the harassing phone call she received last December or the freshman Hispanic stu­dent who was stopped by secu­rity and had to prove his iden­tity because of his attire. 
Mr. Payne suggested in his letter that "Notre Dame is hardly a haven for racial dis­crimination and injustice" but, like many schools, it does have its racial problems. 

For example, when a ticket that consisted of a female and a black male running for student body President and Vice Presi­dent they received hate mail along with threatening phone calls. 
Racism can be perpetrated by any race, certainly not just whites against minorities, I have seen people of every race commit some act of prejudice. 
There is a poisonous racism here at Notre Dame. Until we talk to each other, learn about each other and realize that America's future comes in all colors, we're in trouble. 
Until then, accept the fact that there is racism at NO and fight it with two very powerful weapons: education and love. 
Alex Montoya St. Edwards Hall Jan.15,1992 

Accent 
page 10 Monday, January 18, 1993 

A Saint Mary's student experiences the joy and pain of receiving a tattoo 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Bad hails from a self-operation in an Saint Mary"s Editor Arkansas apartment and used to decorate impossible numbers of people. 
A tattoo is forever...and then some. He described the steady stream of There's a saying among body art people who came in clusters of 10 at all specialists that tattoos last 30 days after times."My neighbors must have thought you die. You have to be very sure you I was the biggest drug dealer," he said. want something if it's going to last that He said he remembered once long, and Saint Mary's student Kathy tattooing 9,700 bikers at a party and took seven years to make up her mind. proudly related recent working record. 
Kathy wanted a dragon. Not the "I started at 7:30 on Friday and finished 
vicious-looking kind like the neon one on at noon on Sunday. I only pissed the window of Michiana's Tattoo twice-that was 38 hours of tattooing." Emporium, but a friendly Puff the Magic Dragon. Because the Emporium didn't Bad came to the Michiana Tattoo offer such a design, tattoo artist Billy Emporium because of their reputation Higgins (a.k.a. "Bad") helped her decide for color-"one of the ten best in the on a lioness nestled with her two cubs. country." He has been tattooing since 
1977 and sports 16 to 20 himself, includ­

Bad named the price and set the ing a recent outline of a parrot that appointment time. Kathy returned to stretches across his forearm. The color Saint Mary's telling anyone who would comes later. Although he has created at listen that she was finally going to get a least a million tattoos, he said he tattoo. After the popular initial reaction "stopped tattooing three years ago and of disbelief, they asked what it was, how started body. art." big it would be, and if it was going to be painful. Bad began to warm up the sterilization 
Although she had doubts, she machine behind the sofas. It was a silver committed herself to hours with ink and appliance that resembles an engine needles and confirmed, "I am not going heated up to an extremely high tempera­to chicken out." ture. Bad asked his apprentice, Vick, to 
On the day of the appointment, Bad prepare the colors and needles at his answered the door with his shirt station in the corner of the store. Kathy untucked, hair uncombed, and jeans became nervous when Bad handed her a worn to the flesh. A he lead Kathy into release of liability form, but she signed it the wide room past the counters of without comment and read aloud the designs, he stretched and explained that instructions he gave her for caring for he didn't even get home last night. The the tattoo. last customer left at about 6 a.m., so he Kathy settled into the reclining dentist­crashed on one of the sofas until Kathy's like chair in front of a sign proclaiming arrival. -----------------"Tattoos by Bad". A 
Bad told Kathy how, stuffed parrot was his wife had called I want to make sure what perched on a stick just. a few minutes I put on your body for the to her right, and 
earher to ch1~ck up on real peacock him. He mused about rest Of your life iS pretty.' feathers were how lucky he was to fanned out next to have a trusting wife it. She was since he worked "no -Billy 'Bad' Higgins surrounded by
less than 12 and up to t a t t o o 24 hours a day." Some Tattoo Artist posters-mostly of women come in to get women with their private areas patterns on their tattooed, but Bad backs. Bad also had insists he's a professional. a picture on his bulletin board of a man 
"When tattooing, I don't remember that he was working on who had what clients look like. I only remember invested several thousand dollars into that little space where the tattoo is. 140 hours' worth of tattooing. That's how much I get into my work," he says gravely. lie expressed disturbance Three cigarettes and two hours after over people who don't come back to Kathy arrived, Bad was ready to begin. show him how their tattoos are healing. lie scrubbed his hands, then his gloves. 
"I stay awake at night wondering what He explained that the heater holding the it looks like," he said "I want to make guns is heated to 259 degrees to sure what I put on your body for the rest disinfect germs in the air, resterilizing of your life is pretty. If it scabs over and between colors. there's one little flaw, I'll re-do it for lie planed to "dry needle" Kathy first 
free." to test for her pain toleration-and see if 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

More students are receiving tattoos at parlors like The Michiana Tattoo Emporium pictured above. Some popular subjects include the lioness with cubs designed on Kathy's hip (above left) and a dolphin on another student's ankle. (left) 
irritation for Kathy. Bad stretched the skin to a honey part of the hip to lend steadiness to the artist like putting paper on a clipboard. 
Kathy said that it felt like the needles were working on her ribs, when they were really eight inches below them. The outline hurt "less than an Epilady" but more than plucking your eyebrows over extended periods of time, according to Kathy. The skin was getting red and Bad decided to take a break. 
"You gotta start with your darkest color first and finish with the lightest," he said. "I'm coloring the black in now." 
of blood. It resembled a tiny spider vein. He dipped the buzzing instrument into She flinched and her eyes watered. a pool of black and hunched over to "Okay, I can handle it," after she decided work again. The pure colors were that wasn't too bad and gained her contained in a plastic tray with little confidence back. Bad was pleased. pools smaller than a quarter of yellow, 
He pressed a wet carbon of the outline orange, green, white, pink, purple, and onto her hip and proceeded to blowdry it black. The cubs' noses were taking for 15 minutes. "Ten minutes into the shape and again black smeared all over tattoo your body starts numbing," Bad the pattern. reassures her. After another 
"It's building its-----------------break, he heated the 
tolerance up."  sterilizer up again  
Bad raised his 'Here we go, Oh God!  My  and promised Kathy  
gun which wasf th ld d' saturated with a er WOU ISOWn  f me or  that he would done in an hour.  be  
bla~k  ink  to this.'  Bad  switched  
begm  the  needles  to  begin  
outline,  and  coloring, explaining  

Kathy broke into -Kathy that there are single, a sweat. "Here three, six, and 14 we go, Oh God!" needle guns. lie she said. "My selected the six-father would dis-needle gun and went own me for this." Bad tucked a towel to work on the orange fur on the two under her elastic waistband and the first lions. "What do you think?" Bad asked lines are drawn. "Oh shit-this is gonna about the change in needles. take forever.. .it hurts, it does hurt. This "Mmmmmm ... I can't tell a whole Jot of is gonna look good, isn't it?" she asked difference," Kathy said. "I would say it as her hands shook. stings just a little bit more." To vary the 
Bad was squinting and moving slowly shading of the orange, Bad injected and deliberately, monitoring her physical patches of rust, yellow, white, and grey. responses to the pain. His forehead wrinkled between his eyes as he bent Bad warned Kathy that she would not over the patch of skin, stretching it 
see the white until several days later smooth and tracing the outline of the because of the red, irritated skin and lioness with his buzzing wand. asked her to come back for the details such as whiskers and more white. ByBad's eyes remain fixed on the work now almost five hours had passed, Kathy 
area, and seemed oblivious to the stereo, was getting sore, and Bad noticed that TV, and conversations around him. He she was starting to feel things.
explained to Kathy that her hip was "Now I'm going to give her a pinkbleeding slightly and the process would nose," Bad announced and zappedtake at least a few hours. 
Kathy. Her left leg quivered violentlyUsually, only a couple lines are drawn when the final touches for the day were 
at a time before the whole pattern is set permanently in her skin. As he flooded with excess ink, drowning the 
finished, Bad recommended that she 
map on her skin. 
return before break so that he could complete the tattoo. 
Bad held a paper towel in his free 
Heaching for the hand mirror Bad hand and constantly cleared away the offered her, Kathy's mouth split into a 
surface ink as he drew. The continuous wide smile. "Oh, this is so fantastic, I 
wiping accounted for some of the gotta look in the mirror." 
..--~--~-­
Monday, January 18, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Washington leads Notre Dame in rout of Loyola 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN scoring eight points in the final five Bowen each scored 12 points and Sports Writer minutes, putting Notre Dame up 36-Sherri Orlosky aided ten for Notre 
16. Dame. Forward Staci Kundinger led Senior guard Coquese Washington The Irish started slow to begin the Loyola with nine. 
supplied the offense and Loyola forget second but Loyola was unable to take It was the second commanding with the defense as the Notre Dame advantage of the opportunity, getting' for the Irish over a Midwestern women's basketball team cruised to a no closer than 15. Collegiente Conference foe, a 25-point76-50 win Saturday night at the Joyce "We lost our concentration at win over Detriot Mercy Thursday
Center. times," commented Irish coach Muffet night being the other. 
Washington scored 13 first-half McGraw in reference to the start of "I think some MCC teams lost points and followed with seven more the second half, "but we came back respect for Notre Dame last year,"in the opening three minutes of the well and Coquese just had a great said Washington. "Now we're gettingsecond half. The senior captain was game." that back." one of four players to score in double The entire Irish squad shot well Respect is exactly what the Irish figures, aided by four of six shooting hitting over 60 percent from three­have for their opponent Tuesdayfrom three-point range. point range and 58 percent from the night, Penn State. The Nittany Lions 
The game was close for the opening floor. The Ramblers paultry offense currently reside in the nations top ten five minutes as the teams remained could only muster 35 percent shoot­and finished 24-7 a year ago. Coach tied at seven at the 4:30 mark. But ing and hit only 4-12 from the charity Rene Portland lost all five starters the Irish outscored the Ramblers 29-9 stripe. from last year, but has done an 

The ObserverJohn Bingham/

to end the half with Washington Forwards Kristin Knapp and Letita incredible coaching job preparing her 
Coquese Washington scored 20 points Saturday. 
Hentrich gets chance at miracle but can't connect in Hula Bowl 
AP -Craig Hentrich was Hentrich was given the op­plete on fourth and 6 and Holtz the big kick under pressure, The game's MVPs had a Mi­happy to get the chance, even if portunity by East coach Lou missed a chance to snap a 10-and versatility since he ami flavor. he didn't make the most of it. Holtz to try a 65-yard field goal 10 tie. averaged 47.6 yards for five Miami Hurricanes receiver 
on the game's final play. The Holtz also set himself up for a punts. Lamar Thomas was the game's kick was long enough but wide · second guess when he went for "I haven't had that many offensive MVP after a game­left, and the West won 13-10 on a first down on fourth-and-one game-winners," Elam said. high six catches for 64 yards. Jason Elam's 28-yard field goal at the East 29. Notre Dame "That's something the scouts Miami (Ohio) safety Ron Car­with 51 seconds left. quarterback Rick Mirer muffed wanted to see. Hopefully, that'll penter was defensive MVP with 
Hentrich, who played for the snap from Iowa center Mike leave a good taste in their a Hula Bowl record three inter­Holtz at Notre Dame, begged Devlin, and Washington mouths come draft time." ceptions. the coach to let him try, arguing linebacker Dave Hoffman re­that he had the wind behind covered for the West at the East him. 30. 
"I didn't think he'd let me The West ran the ball to the try," Hentrich said. "That's the East 11, and Elam kicked the first time he's let me get my game-winner. way. I thought I hit it right. It "What happened was we started ofT down the middle and were going on 2 and the ball it started hooking." was snapped on 1," Holtz said. 
Holtz said Hentrich had made "If we don't snap the ball, his point. they'd have jumped offside and 
"Craig felt that he could kick we would have had a first the ball 60 yards," he said. down. It was unfortunate for us "There was a little wind behind to lose that way." him and not a lot of rush. All of For Elam, who played for those things entered into it." Hawaii at Aloha Stadium, the 
Holtz didn't let Hentrich try a field goal was a great way to 52-yarder with 7:32 to play. In­cap off his career before the The Observer/Marguerite Schropp stead, Florida quarterback hometown fans. He also showed 
The ObserverMarguerite Schropp/ 
Hentrich's attempt fell wide left. Shane Matthews threw incom-NFL scouts the ability to make 
Rick Mirer did nothing to diminish his high standing with NFL teams. 
14 points on six-of-eight being held to a quiet seven first­side shot. utes into the game. However, shooting prior to the intermis­half points. "They were telling us that the Irish battled back. 
Hoops 
sion. After Michigan opened up here's a little fools' gold take it. The Crisler Arena crowd sat "Howard had it going," their largest lead at 64-37 with Notre Dame said let's spread in stunned silence, as Ryan
continued from page 16 
MacLeod commented. "When seven minutes left, the Irish the floor, run some clock and Hoover sunk a three-pointer to one guy gets on a roll, you send were able to get back in the get them anxious. That's what give the Irish a 24-23 lead with Michigan was Juwan Howard. 
people at him and that allows game with a late 10-0 run, but happened in the first half," 4:51 left in the half. But, Michi­The Wolverine center kept his others to get going." it was not nearly enough. Michigan coach Steve Fisher gan went into the intermissionteam in the game in the first This is exactly what hap­In the first half, the scrappy said. with a 34-29 lead. 
half, when the Irish forced 
pened, as Chris Webber ex­Irish werfl able to hang tough Despite being forced out of its From there it was all Michi­Michigan into a battle of half­
ploded for 15 in the second to by sagging on defense and game, Michigan was able to gan.
court offenses. Howard scored 
lead the Wolverine run, after giving the Wolverines the out-open up a 17-12 lead 12 min-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Needed: "Marketing" by Scheoll and MARDI GRAS!I desperately seeking GAs for Adoption: Doctor and teacher will Oh Biondi-Sure Hope Ya'll Like Guiltinan, 5th edition. Please call For sale: One-way plane ticket to UK/NO basketball game! IF you can make dreams for your baby come Cotton!NOTICES x2535. New Orleans. Leave help please call Missy @ 284~5260 true. Full-time parenting. Best of the 1. The Am-Factor 
South Bend on Friday, February 19. city; summers by the beach: your 2. Hot-n-Now then Git-n-Go Used Texts Cheap Pandora's You name the orice. 233-1958. Please Help!! baby rocked to sleep by a cozy 3. That's a two thumbs upI in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-START fireplace in winter, and by ocean 4. Holywowl 2342 NO Ave & Howard NOW I need 1-4 Duke/NO waves in summer. Art, music, the 5. Can we have your autograph? 
I 
TICKETS 

Top environmental/educational Basketball tix for Feb.6!! best education, endless love. Call 6. Don't be afraid to leave some company interviewing now for part­WANII::U: Franny or Stephen collect. rubber!
ILOST & FOUND I
time and full-time opportunities. Call Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call X2384 ASAP (212)369-2597. 7. 2 A.M. on Elm Street 
232-7785 for details. Please call284-3814 Thanks!! 8. Go white boy, go white boy, go! FOUND ; Women's watch, just SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '931 9. Operation Avoidance. before finals, behind Washington WANTED; JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 10. Hot licks! Yum! 
FOR RENT 
Hall. Call631-8828 or 631-7723. Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Need 4 Duke GA's FLORIDA FROM $1491 ORGANIZE 11. Fun at Medieval Times! 
Please call284-3814 4 or 2 and 2 GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY, 12. Mother Hen and Mama Mint Found: Ladies watch in 127 Reserve '93-94 yr. 1628 Matt#1190 LIMITED SPACE. 13. All the luck of '93 is GONE! NSH on 1-13-93. Call 233-4925 to Portage. 6 bedrm. Beach I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! SUN SPLASH TOURS Watch out -Here come Mayhem identify. V-ball ct. 234-3831, 273-GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 KENTUCKY GAME 1-800-426-7710. and Chaosl 
0482 NEED 4 TIX Luv, Jello Knees LOST: Silver Peugeot watch lost I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! $$$$$$$$$$$$ •••AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! Thursday of finals week in or GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 CALL MIKE@ 1719 BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 around DeBartolo 101. If found 3 BEDROOM HOUSE MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH Anyone interested in please call Jesse at 43268. $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, tutoring at the South Bend 
SECURITY SYSTEM GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE & KENTUCKY DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, Juvenile Detention Center Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring 232-3616 tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, Please attend an About size 4 1/2 or 5 . Pinky Ring. I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! x1235. JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386. informational meeting in the Please Call Amy x4530 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY GA's or Studentl Call Chris X-1235 Center for Social Concerns 
219-291-7153. SPRING BREAK "93" with on Wed., Jan. 20 at 7;30 PM LOST: HANOWA watch at NEED 2 tickets to Kentucky game -Need 1 ,2,3,or 4 GA or stud. COLLEGE TOURS BRIDGET'S on Thursday of final's FURNISHED ROOM. call Aaron x1764 tickets for Duke game. Call Nicole CANCUN $459 week-black band. white face. $170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. at X1618. Air, Hotel, Parties, Nightly Summer Employment small seconds hand. IF FOUND, 287-2159. Who's your basketball coach?! Entertainment! Interested in CALL TREY at X1453 Who's your basketball coach?! NEED ONE TICKET TO THE traveling for free? Become a Camp Manito -Wish YMCA 
Wl\NTED 
Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 DUKE GAME. PLEASE CALL College Tours Representative. For Come meet staff recruiters and 2, 3, & 6 BEDROOM HOMES basketball tix to the Kentucky PAULA X2581 more information & reservations learn more about Manito-wish today NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE NOW WildCATastrophe due to take place call: from 7:30-9:00 p.m. in room 303 AND NEXT FALL. 272-6306 in the month de amor. Be a pal, LOUIE 1-800-395-4896. Haggar College Center -SMC INTERN.::, NEEDED FOR TAX samaritan, or whatever and sell him 
PERSONAL I 
RETURN PREP AT LOCAL FIRM the tickets or one of his Italian OWNED BY NO GRAD. CALL 257-FOR SALE relatives might pay you a visit. Then JUMPIN'G-Happy Birthday Stefanie! The earth 8700. the time for haggling will be over. BECCA IS A 20 YEAR OLD BABE! 1WORKED YOU OVER ON THE has been graced with your 
RAPIO WORDPROCESSING Call Skip at x2052 and leave a COURT LIKE I WORKED YOUR presence for twenty years! Need Kentucky b-ball tix$X4890 Call Lori at 271-0754 message if he ain't around. I what wuv you MOM LAST NIGHT! -Love Paul F. 


page 12 The Observer 
Irish hockey drops two over weekend 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 20th and 21st goals of the sea­we did," Schafer said. Sports Writer son during the outburst. The Both teams came out checking only consolation the Irish could extremely hard as bodies flew 
The Notre Dame hockey team take was the fact that two of the all over the ice. Eventually, with entered the weekend looking goals were scored while Miami just over four minutes left in the for an upset victory over Miami had a man advantage on the first, Irish senior Dave 
(011) and a routine win against power play. Bankoske fed freshman Jaime Kent State. Instead, the Irish "We had a low activation Ling in front of the net for the received nothing but 2 level, which means we were game's first goal. For Ling,disappointing losses. Friday lethargic," Schafer explained. Notre Dame's leading scorer, it night ended with an 8-2 However, the Irish did try to was his ninth goal of the year. blowout loss against Miami, mount a comeback. Senior Dan However, Kent came back while Kent beat the Irish 4-3 in Marvin scored his second goal with two quick goals at the be­overtime on Saturday night. of the year with seven minutes ginning of the second period.Miami came into Friday left in the second period. Then, The score remained 2-1 until night's game ranked number two minutes into the third, Irish Irish freshman Brett Bruininks five in the nation and number senior Curtis Janicke scored his scored his fifth goal of the year one in the Central Collegiate eleventh goal of the year to on a rebound in front of the net. llockey Association. The final make it 5-2. Bruininks, who was banging score proved just how good the That was the closest the Irish hard all night, finally received a Hedskins play. would get as Miami finished the reward for his efforts. Irish head coach Ric Schafer scoring with three late goals. In the third period, with the described the loss by saying, Schafer summed up the night score tied and the Irish holding"Miami made us look bad, they by saying, "we'll forget this and a man advantage on the powerembarrassed us at home and come out tomorrow and do play, Kent's Neal Purdon took it's very hard to understand better." "The odds are in our advantage of some poor Irish why we played so poorly." favor to play well, it's the test of passing and scored past Irish The Irish came into the game sports and we'll see what we're goalie Greg Louder. 
with a three-game winning made of." At that point, with 14 and a streak, but were completely In Saturday night's game, half minutes left, Carl Pic­outplayed by the Redskins. Kent came in with a 4-10-1 conatto entered the Irish goalAfter a close opening period record in the CCHA. The Irish, because Schafer said, "Louder which finished with Miami still seething from the previous had complained of dizziness at ahead 1-0, the floodgates night, came out with something the break and we needed a 
opened in the second. Four Mi­to prove. boost." ami goals within nine minutes "We had to redeem ourselves The boost came from Irish ballooned the score to 5-0. Mi­and play our hearts out-which freshman Garry Gruber when ami's Brian Savage scored his 


GET TilE MEDICAL
~~ASCHOlARSHIP 
~..~ YOUNEED. 
~ If you're a medical stu­
dent, you have enough on your mind. Today's Air Force offers a scholarship program that can greatly reduce your financial burden. Participation is based on competitive selection. Get more information with no obligation. 
Call 

USAF HEAL Til PROFESSIONS 
COLLECT 
(219) 237-1950 

>
,..~=======..:..-=---:... : 
--~~~;::' 

PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND , • .,SfQ9 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 

DAYTONA BEACH ,,•.,$ 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

PANAMA CITY BEACH , . .,s 81 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

STEAMBOAT "•m$f29 
2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS , • .,SfJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,om$f2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

FORT LAUDERDALE ,om$f46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 


TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1·800·321·5911 
he took the puck from behind his own net and scored unas­sisted. 
Regulation play ended 3-3 and a five minute sudden death overtime began. Unfortunately for the Irish, it ended too 
Monday, January 18, 1993 
quickly, as Kent's Steve McLean scored 38 seconds into the overtime. 
"I'm pleased that our effort and spirit improved dra­matically from the previous night," added Schafer. 


--~--------~--~-~ -~­
Monday, January 18, 1993 
Diver's absence leaves Irish wondering in loss to Purdue 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY Sports Writer 
The men's swimming team finished its weekend with a victory over Northern Illinois Saturday afternoon, following a loss to twenty-first ranked Purdue Friday night. 
Before the start of the week­end's competition, Sean Hyer, the only male diver for Notre Dame, suffered a head injury while practicing for the evening's events, making him unable to compete. 
Hyer was released from the infirmary later Friday night and is expected to return to praetice early this week, but his absence from the meet may have been the only factor that saved the Boilermakers from defeat. 
"If you just add up the points, we lost by eighteen," stated Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "Twenty-six points were scored by Purdue in diving. Would we have won with Sean? Who knows, not absolutely. But for sure it would have been much closer. If we learned anything this weekend, it's that we should appreciate our divers." 
Hyer, who has consistently scored in the high 200's to low 300's throughout this season, surely would have dominated Purdue's diving squad, whose highest score in either event was 255.225. Hyer's victory would have given Notre Dame a ten-point margin. 
The Irish dominated the swimming events, winning six out of the eleven races. Senior sprinter Greg Cornick won the 100 freestyle with a time of 47.10. . . . 
Cormck and semor Cohn Cooley joined co-captain John Godfrey and senior Ed Broder­
ick to take first place in the 400 medley relay. Cooley also placed first in the 200 breast 
(2:10.52) and the 200 l.M., swimming a 1:57.80. 
Notre Dame did not need the talents of Sean Hyer to secure a victory over Northern Illinois on Saturday. The Irish crushed the Huskies 140-87, capturing nine out of eleven first place finishes. 
Cornick again placed first in the 100 free with a time of 
47.34. Junior Pat Cady added another victory for the Irish with his win in the 200 breast in a time of 2:14.20. 
Freshman Dave Doherty won both the 200 free (1:45.52) and the 200 fly (1:59.45). He was also a member of the winning 400 medley relay team. 
According to Welsh, sopho­more Mike Keeley's 500 freestyle victory "was the best we've ever seen.~ Keeley fin­ished with a 4:44.45. 
Despite the loss to Purdue, the weekend was a successful one for the Irish. 
"We raced very, very well," stated Welsh. "Timewise, we were faster than we had been at our fastest dual meet before the semester break, even fol­lowing training trip where we have frequently been slower." 
Notre Dame's next competi­tions are January 28 and 29 when they will swim in the Cleveland State Invitational in Cleveland and against St. Bonaventure's in Oleander, New York. 

The Observer/Jake Peters Will Forsyth won at number one singles for the Irish against Ohio State. 
The Observer 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's swim team defeated Northern Illinois University Saturday afternoon at Rolfs Aquatic Center, f73-70. The meet went as planned, the Irish swam well against the weaker Huskies, winning eleven of the thirteen events. 
The Irish dominated the middle distance and distance freestyle events. Senior co-captian Susan Bohdan won the 1000 yard freestyle (10:46.79), followed by Junior Kristin Heath. Freshman Joy Michnowicz, and sophomores Angie Roby and Amy Bethem placed first, second, and third, respectively in the 500 yard freestyle. Roby also won the 200 yard freestyle (1:59.28) followed by freshman Kelly Walsh. 
In the 50 and the 100 yard freestyle events, freshman Jesslyn Peterson and sophomore Lorrei Horenkamp put in excellent swims and challenged Northern Illinois' sprinters, but came up with only a second and third place finish. 
As expected, the Irish excelled in the breastroke, butterfly, and backstroke events. Senior co-captain Tanya Williams won the 200 

page 13 
.. 

yard breastroke with a time of 2:28.94, followed by a second place performance by Bethe~. Williams also won the 200 yard butterfly, with sophomore Jenni Dahl just behind with an impressive performance. In the 200 yard Backstroke, sophomore Cara Garvey took first place with a time of 2:11.63. 
Kay Broderick, a senior from Wayne, Illinois, won the 200 yard Individual Medley with an unshaved best time of 2:12.84. Michnowiez, Dahl, and freshman Rachel Thurston finished out the top four by placing second, third, and fourth. 
The diving events proved to be yet another strong area for the Irish. Lianne Gallagher, a freshman from Mamaroneck, New York, placed first in both the one-meter and three-meter diving events. Gallagher's score of 315.30 on the three-meter board is a school record. 
Finishing out the events were the relays, both top finishes for Notre Dame. The 400 yard Medley Relay consisted of Garvey, Michnowicz, Williams, and Peterson. Colette LaForce, Lisa Mancuso, Walsh, and Bohdan made up the winning 400 yard freestyle relay. 

-·­CELEBRATE WITH US! 
OUR CHINESE NEW YEAR 
Featuring: 
NIW YEAR DINNIR BUFPIT 
(Served Once a Year) 
Monday, Jan. 18 to Sunday, Jan. 24 {Reguksr menu also avaitab&e during and ah.r buff.t.) TIME: Mon.-Thrus. 5·9, Fri. &Sat. 5·10, Sun. 5-9 
RESERVATIONS: For Groups 
S & Up 
Call 255-6868
hJ t1J 

~..'Oft.~ 
C:I.J~n.ese Rrstauront 
313 W. McKin Ave. Mishawaka 
Men's tennis opens season by topping OSU 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team, ranked sixth in the latest Intercollegiate Tennis As­sociation poll, opened it's dual meet season on Saturday with a 6-1 win over Ohio State. 
"It was a great way to begin the season because we won some hard-fought and difficult matches," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. 
Seniors Will Forsyth, Chuck Coleman and Ron Rosas were all double-winners for the Irish on the day. Forsyth defeated Gabor Koves, 6-0, 6-3, at No. 1 singles and teamed with Cole­man to win at No. 1 doubles over Kaves and Vito Mazza, 8-5. Coleman's singles victory came at the No. 2 spot with a 6-0, 6-1 win over Jason Katzer. Rosas won at No. 4 singles over John Brumbaugh 6-1, 6-1, and teamed with Jason Pun to win at No. 3 doubles. 
"I was really pleased with how these three seniors all had decisive set wins," added Bayliss. "That's terrific for those guys to start off that strong." 
Senior Mark Schmidt won at No. 3 singles over Doug Bloom 6-2, 7-6 (7-5), and senior Chris Wojtalik won at No. 5 singles, 3­6, 7-6, 6-1, over Eric Faro. 
"Schmidt and Wojtalik both had to fight hard for their wins," stated Bayliss. "When Schmidt's match was tied 5-5 in the second set he played a 31­minute game. That was the longest I had ever seen. It was a tenacious match by both players." 
The match featured a new 

format in collegiate tennis where the doubles matches are played first in a pro-set format and the team that wins two of three matches receives one point in the total match scoring. 
"I think the new format is ex­citing," said the Notre Dame eoach. "The doubles matches become a lot more important and full of tension." 
Notre Dame returns to aetion on Saturday, Jan. 30 when it hosts eighth ranked North Carolina at 1:30. 
"Getting the first match under our belt was very important," says Bayliss. "We have a very diffieult schedule this season where we play a number of the nation's best teams. I was very encouraged by the first match, but I also saw some items we need to work on." 

Please help us stop abortion! 
Without doubt, a majority of Americans are 
opposed to abortion on demand. Unfortunately, 
however, our legislators are not convinced 
because too many Pro-Life supporters simply 
have not stood up to be counted. ­
On Friday, January 22, a peaceful memorial 
procession will be held from noon to 1 p.m. in 
front of the Federal Court Building at Main & 
Jeiferson in downtown South Bend. 
Your participation in this event is vital to its 
success. 

If we are going to stop abortion we must all get 
involved. It is the only way. Please help. 
-----------------------------~­
page 14 

The Observer· Monday, January 18, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS Hoover shines despite lack of experience 
By BRIAN KUBICKI more. Williams went down not perfect. Of the team's 27 
-
Cross Country ski equipment may be rented from RecSports at the Rock Thursday and Friday from 4:30-5:30 p.m., Saturday from 12-1 p.m. and Sunday from 4:30-5:30 p.m.. For more information,call RecSports at 631-6100. RecSports Is offering courses and classes in scuba diving, water aerobics. and cross country skiing. The classes start January 20 so stop by the RecSports office in the JACC to sign up. Entries are being taken for campus racquetball doubles for men and women and co-ree volleyball, interhall team racquetball, and grad/faculty/staff volleyball. The entry deadline is January 20. Entries for campus indoor soccer for men and women, badminton doubles for men and women, and co-ree water volleyball and the intorhall swim relays are due January 27. Saint Mary's varsity softball practice starts January 18 at 6:15 p.m. in Angela. The practice is open to anyone who is interested in playing. Please bring physical forms. The Equestrian Club will hold an organizational meeting on January 20 at 7:30p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. All now members are welcome. If you have any questions, call Megan at 634-2784. The Badin Aerobathon will be held January 23 at Stepan CentAr from 9 a.m.-5 p.m .. Classes will begin every hour on the hour alternating between high impact and a combination of high and low impact aerobics. The fee is $3 for unlimited classes and all proceeds go to the Women's Care Center in South Bend. The Crew Team/Club will hold a meeting for all men's varsity and novice rowers on January 18 at 7:30p.m. in 123 Nieuland. Women's novice crew will have a meeting at 4:45 January 18 by the weight room in the JACC. Be ready to practice. The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will be having beginners practices starting January 21 from 6:30-8:30 p.m. in 219 Hockne. No experience necessary. All are welcome. Advanced classes will begin January 15 at 6 p.m.. If you have questions, please call Laurie 634-4992. Registration for SMC intramurals will take place Tues. Jan 19. Basketball and indoor soccer captains will meet at 5:30 pm. Tennis doubles and coed volleyball captains at 6 pm. Meetings will be held at Angela Athletic Facility. For info call 284-5549 Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice will be heldMon. and Thurs. at 7:30 in the JACC above Gate 4. Questions call Matt Zinno x1777.  Sports Writer clutching his left ankle and was turnovers, the freshman con­out for the remaining nine tributed more than any of his Ryan Hoover was the smallest minutes of the game. teammates, six. player on the court at the start With their leading scorer out, Coach John Madeod credited of Saturday's basketball game Hoover finished up his game­Michigan's defense for some of at Michigan. But Notre Dame's high 23-point performance. the turnovers. But he still ac­freshman point guard took the Seven of his 14 second half knowledged his point guard has ball into the paint and points came from the field, and a ways to go. "(Hoover's) challenged the Wolverine's seven more from the free-throw progressing. It was a learning highly touted sophomores on line, as Hoover missed only one situation today, and he will their first play. of his eight attempts. learn a lot from it." Chris Webber blocked that Hoover's performance was first shot, but Hoover had made a statement-he was not intimi­dated by the second ranked and trash talking Wolverine's."They talk a lot of trash, but it really didn't bother us," said senior The Observer captain Monty Williams. "What it did was get them more is now accepting applications psyched up." Hoover's poise and shooting for the following paid position: kept Notre Dame in the game during the first half. His first and second three point shots put the Irish within two points Sports Copy Editor of Michigan. The third gave them a 24-23 lead with 4:5lleft in the first half. Hoover ended the half leading all Irish scorers Please submit a one-page personal statement and/or with those nine points. resume to Mike Scrudato by Friday, January 22."We are a talented team," said Wllliams. "If they are going Contact Mike at 631-4543 for more information. to double team me, other people are going to step up." Hoover was the one to step up on Saturday. In the second half, :J1.a.~e youTse[f at home i..t'J.he was called on to do even tTe[a.nt!! Study abroad through the~~~~~[K~~ Saint Mary's College Ireland ProgramPARTY DE5nNATIONS CANCUN ~om $469 Application DeadlineDAYTONA h001 $1 09 January 22 BEST PRICE Application forms available in GUARANTEED Le Mans 109C, SMC 1 (800)265-4654 For information call: TRAVE'"LF--RE E Shari Overdorf, Ireland Program CounSL'lorEARN BIQ ....AND FREE TRAVEL OrgaJ:~Ue 11 8tu.U.nt gl'Oup 284-4596 to one of our hoUdo.y locaUonol  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 1993--94 Angers, France Dublin, Ireland Fremantle, Australia lnnsbruck, Austria Mexico City, Mexico Nagoya, Japan Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain Application Deadline has been extended to January 22, 1993 Don't Miss the Chance of a Lifetime For more information, contact: International Study Programs 420 Main Building 2n39-5882  
The Observer is now accepting applications for 1993...94 EDITOR~IN~CHIEF Any full-time undergraduate at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encourage? to app.ly. Applicants should have a strong Inter~st In journalism and should possess sohd communications and public relations skills. A background in writing, editing and/or management is helpful. Previous newsl?aper experience is also helpful, but not required. Applicants should submit a resume and a five-page personal statement of intent to Monica Yant by 5 p.m., Friday, Jan. 22, 1993. For additional information, contact Monica Yant at The Observer, 631-4542 .  
EasyTrigger HAPPY BIRTHDAY CoL Love, Aim & Mike  

I. 


Today 
Monday, January 18, 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
HE'S GoTTA BE ALIVE. AMERICAN LEGENDS ;JuST 
CAN'T DIE. WE, THE. PUBLIC, WON'T 
ALLOW IT. HE MUST 
BE HIDIN6 SoME­WfiE.RE I BUT WilER£? 
Wl-\ER£ ?? 

BILL WATIERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 
Scene from "Insurance Salesman of the Opera." 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33Everand-eo Luanda's 34 • See 16 Across 
country1 Caesar's force 62 *See 16 Across 36Warnerof4 *See 16 Across 65 Burns's children 

"Charlie Chan" 

8 Bactrian is one 
films 66 Melville work 13Actress 
&7 Mix or Thumb
37 Sound louder 

Kaminska 
68 Ruminants' 14 Ward (off) 
than third stomachs 
39-marbles

15 One's word &9 •see 16 Across: 
43Colleague

18 City in any of Abbr. 
48-Shan

the starred 70 Roguish
(mountain

clues range)
18"... the-
DOWN

hot" 49 Tat's reparation 1tCurved 50 *See 16 Across 1 London's Old moldings 51 Eel or snake 20Tense 2 Two little words 
52 Gaelic 21 Needy 
3 Nation's targets 
54 Child's meas. 

4"AII-," 1984
23 Active volcano 
55 Fat-and-flour 


CAMPUS· 


Monday 

. 7 pdn~ Fihn, "Night of the Comet." AnnenbergAuditorium. .. ~p.m. Film, "Avant-garde." Annenberg Auditaiium. 


MENU 

.· Notre Dt;tme 
Sloppy Joes 
Fried Clams 
Pasta Primavet4 Mozzarella
film28 Indian garb mixture 

5 "If-the King
21 Canvas shelter 
57 Books listing ...":Matt. 27:42 32 Rorvik's "In-wills, deeds, 
&Occupied
Image": 1978 etc. 
7 "-bodkins!" 8 Singer Irene 
9 Alarm clock's accomplish­ment 
10 *See 16 Across 30Hightime 47 Sigmoid letter eoTurku, to 11 Hebrew high Swedes31 Wildebeest 49 *See 16 Across 
priest 12-Cayes, 35 Part of a flight 53 Puzzler's resin 61 Theater of the 
60's, for short 
DIPPING 

Haiti 36 Killer whale 56 Kin of a radius 15Sandwich 62-de guerre 
36 Jim-dandy 56 Nigerian Kwa breads 

39 Zorba's seventh speakers 63-Nidre
IS FOR 

17 Hungarian letter (prayer of 
59 Marx and language 40Sass Ringling, e.g.: atonement) 
21 Briard's foot 41 *See 16 Across Abbr. 64 Alcott of golf 
DIPS 

22 W.W. II agcy. 
42 Not al fresco24Cravings 25 Julio's boys 44 Prefix with 

Get answers to any three clues
mural

27 Rum, in Ponce 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
28 *See 16 Across: 45Helps 
5656 {75¢ each minute).
Abbr. 48 Type of dance 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 
.

d ' . 
/ I ! 
-_,..·
[

q~P. '\ 
l 

~ " 
--_. :.. ~~-I 
... 
-


-~ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Free ice skating the JACC2 

1 0Wmterffillia 2 
Comedian Walli Collins 1 

I 
t t 
I 
t 
l t 
~ 
! f ~ 
-
r 
r I 
r-
r 
f 
I 
i I r 
page 16 
BRIAN KUBICKI 
Playing Around 

1---------------1 

Despite AFC label, 
Bills have talent to 
win in Pasadena 
The NFC Championship Game has 
earned the reputation of being more 
important than the Super Bowl. This 
reputation is not unfounded since the 
NFC has dominated the NFL in recent 
years. 

This year does not seem to be any 
different. The Buffalo Bills, this year's 
representative from the AFC, has 
endured a weaker season than its last 
two, they lost in the Super Bowl each of 
those seasons. 

From the NFC, Dallas struts into 
Pasadena to face the Bills. Dallas 
contended for the best record in the 
NFL by sporting the league's best 
defense. Their offense is equally 
capable. armed with the league's rush­
ing yardage leader, Emmitt Smith, and 
solid passer, Troy Aikman. 
But for the Bills. the regular season is 
over. Since the first two quarters and 
four minutes of the playoffs, in which 
the Houston Oilers dominated Buffalo 
to run up a 35-3 lead, the Bills have 
played ten quarters of the best football 
they played all season. 
Included in those ten quarters is the 
greatest comeback in NFL history 
behind baek-up quarterback Frank 
HeiGh. 

The odds the Bills face against Dallas are considerably Jess than the odds they faced in the second half of that game. The Bills proved they could handle those odds. The Bills will be able to handle Dallas as well. 
Dallas has very little Super Bowl experience on their squad, the youngest in the NFL. Buffalo has been there twice and lost. Not only does that leave them with experience, but an emptiness as well. The Bills do not want to lose again. 
Bull'alo is not as incompetent against NFC teams as their fellow AFC members. This season they ran up a 4­0 record against NFC teams. Two of those wins were on the road at San Francisco and New Orleans, two of the best teams in the NFC this season. 
The Bills can beat Dallas, especially the way they've been playing lately. To do so, they must be mentally prepared. Two seasons ago, the heavily favorea Bills faced the New York Giants with too much confidence. Last season, against the Washington Hedskins, they fought amongst themselves in the weeks preceding the Super Bowl and were humiliated by the 'Skins. 
This season the Bills have remained calm in the face of their opponents taunts. As the Miami players talked up the game in the paper, Buffalo let their playing speak for itself in a 29-10 victory. They are two Super Bowl losses wiser and it showed. 
What the Bills already know and the Cowboys will learn in Pasadena is that the better team on paper is not always the better team on the field. 
Sports 
Michigan dunks Notre Dame 70-55 
70-55 decision. 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 

Sports Editor "In the second half we didn't do anything Coach MacLeod showed 
ANN ARBOR-For a while it us during the week," said Montylooked like it could be an upset of Williams. David and Goliath proportions, Williams, the Irish's leadingbut on Saturday afternoon David scorer and rebounder, was ran out of stones. forced to leave the game with a 
After playing second-ranked twisted left ankle on two sepa­
Michigan close for the first 24 rate occasions. Head basketball minutes, the Notre Dame men's trainer Skip Meyer said yester­basketball fell victim to a 25-2 day that Williams status for 
second half spurt and dropped a tonights game at Butler is uncertain and will be determined near tip-off. 
Notre Dame (7-6) wanted to work t11e ball on offense and force ;he Wolverines (13-2) to shoo1 from the perimeter. The IrisP , ·'l able to do these things ear out after cutting the Michigan lead to 39-35 with 
16:23 left they showed their in­experience. 
"We tried to beat them in a minute," Malik Russell explained. "We quick shot the ball on offense and we played right into their hands." 
MacLeod believed that some of his team's problems were caused by the Wolverine defense, which seemed to turn its intensity up a notch after the intermission. 
"We had 27 turnovers, and some of that has to be attributed to Michigan's defense," the Irish coach said. "They began to trap (in the second half) and they forced us to throw the ball away." 
The star of the game for 
see HOOPS/page 11 


Dallas, Buffalo battle into Super Bowl 
Bill's defense shines in 29-10 rout of Dolphins 
AP -Through injuries and wild cards, through historic comebacks and hostile road games, the Buffalo Bills never flinched. They persevered, and now they're in their third straight Super Bowl. 
The Bills won the right to try for their first NFL title with a convincing 29-10 victory over the Miami Dolphins in Sunday's AFC championship game. 
"It's been a long road and a hard road," Bills coach Marv Levy said. "I've never been prouder in all the years I've coached than to be associated with the men on this team." 
Thurman Thomas, the NFL's total offense leader the last four seasons, showed why with 96 yards rushing and 70 more on five receptions. 
Quarterback Jim Kelly, back after missing 2 1/2 games with a knee injury, had a 17 -yard TD pass to Thomas. He wasn't real sharp, but his performance blunted any criticism of coach Marv Levy for starting him over Frank Reich, who led the Bills to their first two post­season victories. 
"I want to thank my teammates for hanging in there with me all week," Kelly said. 
Ken Davis had a 2-yard TD run and placekicker Steve Christie tied a postseason-record with 'five field goals, 

~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~from distances of 21, 33, 21,31 and 38 
• 
INSIDE SPORTS 

•Hoover impressive in loss 
see page 14 
llwomen's swimming wins 
see page 13 
yards. 
Buffalo's defense -virtually impenetrable since the third quarter of the first playoff game -flustered Dan Marino all day. The Bills, who have allowed just 16 points since falling be­hind 35-3 in their playoff opener against Houston, had four sacks as defensive stars Bruce Smith, Darryl Talley and Cornelius Bennett were dominant. 
Monday, January 18, 1993 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Chris Weber performs an acrobatic dunk during Michigan's win. 
S 
UPERBOWL 


Winning teams make history 
AP -Dallas and Buffalo earned a place in Pasadena and made a little history along the way. 
It was the first time since 1966 that both visiting from the AFC/NFC Championship games earned trips to the Super Bowl. 
Buffalo became only the fourth wild­card team to make the long trip to the big game. Only the 1980 Oakland Raiders won the NFL championship as a wild card. 
The Bills equaled the feat of their opponent earning their third consecutive Super Bowl appearances. The Dolphins were the only other team to accomplish that feat (1971-73). 
The Cowboys will be making their fifth trip to the Super Bowl, the last since 1977, a loss to Pittsburgh. It was a fitting site to do it. Dallas' slide from top to bottom began 11 years ago at 

Cowboys turn 49er mistakes into 30-20 win 
AP -The Dallas Cowboys capped their rise from the NFL's depths at the same spot their downfall began. 
The Cowboys qualified for their first Super Bowl in 14 years Sunday with a 30-20 victory over San Francisco. Troy Aikman and Emmitt Smith led two perfect second-half drives after the teams were tied 10-10 at halftime. 
It was the more experienced 49ers who made the mistakes -two fumbles that led to all 10 Dallas points in the first half. 
The first drive came after the second­half kickoff-78 yards in 8 plays featuring a 38-yard pass from Aikman to Alvin Harper. The 6-foot-4 Harper beat 5-11 San Francisco cornerback Eric Davis on the play. 
Daryl Johnston capped that one with a 3-yard run for a TD as the San Francisco defense broke offside, then stood around as Johnston hulled up the middle. 
Mike Cofer's 42-yard field goal cut it to 17-10 but, typically for this day, it came after coach George Seifert elected to kick rather than go for it on fourth­and-2 from the 24. 
Then came the second drive, 9 minutes of perfection in which the Cowboys converted four third downs in four attempts including the TD, a 16­yard toss from Aikman to Smith, who also scored on a 4-yard run in the second quarter. 
The Niners cut it to 24-20 with a 5­yard pass from Steve Young to Jerry Rice with 4:22 left. 
It came at the end of a 93-yard drive after the Niners had stopped the Cowboys on a fourth-and-one. 
But Aikman, who completed 24 of 34 attempts for 322 yards, and Harper 
r 
•women's hoop routs Loyola 
see page 11 
The Dolphins, winners of the AFC East on the final day of the season as Buffalo lost, hurt themselves with five turnovers. 

Candlestick, when Dwight Clark made "The Catch" that put the 49ers in the first of the four Super Bowls. 
combined on a 70-yard completion on the first play after the kickoff. Three plays later, Aikman hit Kelvin Martin for the 6-yard TO that made it 30-20. 




