~---------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------~ 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 110 FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC elects '95 officers; others will hold run-off 
By KATIE CAPUTO AND "We are ready to work hard and make it a good year," said
NICOLE MCGRATH 
El-Ganzouri.
News Writers 
The Gillig/Johnson ticket will run against the
While the Class of 1995 has Whisler/Fedesna ticket in theelected their new officers for Monday run-off for the Class ofthe Junior Class, the Classes of 1996. Yesterday's results were1994 and 1996 will vote in a 47.96 percent for Gillig andrun-off election on Monday, ac­48.47 percent for Whisler withcording to Melissa Whelan, the 3.57 percent abstaining. 
Janeen Gillig will run for president with Gretchen John­
• GSU Elections I page 7 
son for vice-president, Jayne Gillig for secretary, and Anne
interim election commissioner. Noha El-Ganzouri will be the Hurley for treasurer. 
According to Janeen Gillig,president for the Junior Class 
next year. Shenna Mowery will they are very pleased with the results, and would like to go

be vice-president. Michelle 
"They can look forward to the two tickets were extremely Kelly Collins' ticket had 25 per­one-on-one and meet the vot­Drobitsch will be secretary, and 
meeting us at their doors this close, Fedesna said they are cent and Becky McLain's had 2ers. They would also like toHenelle Baldwin will be trea­weekend," Gillig said. hoping the results will be simi­percent.
emphasize that their ticket hassurer. 
Lisa Whisler heads off the lar with their ticket on top. Swift is running with Katie
100 percent experience on a
El-Ganzouri said they were other ticket for the Class of They plan to use the rest of Baal, vice-president, Laurenstudent government board. 
happy with the results and 
1996 as president. Liz Fedesna their money to help their cam­Siragusa, secretary and Lisapleased at the good turn ou-t in "We want to continue some 
is running for vice-president paign. Rania, treasurer. Petrovic is
of the same ideas that this
votes which was 88% and 11% with Beth Regan for secretary "We want to get out and talk running with Erin Cannon, vice­year's board has had becauseabstaining. 
and Mary Good for treasurer. to people and encourage them president, Kristin Johnson,"We hope the participation in we haven't been able to put They are disappointed that to vote for us," said Fedesna. secretary and Mary DiFranco,voting extends to participating them to action yet, but we have the election is continuing, ac­The class of 1994's choices treasurer.
plenty of new ideas to keep
among the Junior Class for next 
cording to Fedesna. They are, have been narrowed down to "We're pretty excited," Sira­year's event," said El-Ganzouri. others happy," Gillig said. 
however, happy the run-off will two tickets. gusa said. "We haven't been in
In order to increase their
They hope the Class of 1995 be held on a Monday because it Courtney Swift's ticket took student government as long aschances of winning, they plan
understands that they are as 
might increase the number of 40 percent of the votes while Beth has but we have new ideasmuch a part of the board as the on going door to door cam­voters. Beth Petrovic's followed closely
newly elected officers are. ac­paigning and meeting people see SMC I page 4 
Although the results between with 30 percent. Meanwhile,
cording to El-Ganzouri. personally. 
HPC's bail/buyer fundraiser, raises $2500 for scholarship 
By THERESA ALEMAN "Bail a Domer" incited good News Writer spirits among students, according to Arnold. Between $2000 and $2500 "This isn't so bad. I've got a 
will be donated to the Beeler­T.V. here to watch basketball 
Hipp Memorial Scholarship and it's for a great cause," said 
fund by the Hall Presidents' Bill Zimmerman, a Keenan Hall 
Council (HPC) as a result of junior and "arrestee." 
yesterday's "Buy a Domer" and "Can I use hand-cuffs and ev­
"Bail a Domer" fundraisers, erything?" asked Lynn Friede­according to Lewis Hall co­wald, Breen Phillips Hall co­president Heather Arnold. president and "warden." 
Companionship for a day with 
About 45 "arrests" were campus celebrities and Notre made as part of "Bail a Domer". Dame novelties brought in al­For three dollars, HPC sold most $2000 in the "Buy a "arrests" allowing students to Domer" fundraiser, according have their friends confined to a to Arnold. corner of the first floor of LaFortune Student Center for Top sellers included the an hour. "Bail" was posted for women's swim team which 
each prisoner at a minimum of "sold" for $175, a football auto­ten dollars. graphed by Lou Holtz which 
Students were allowed to sold for $115, and the call friends soliciting donations disbanded Irish Guard which for "bail" money. "Arrests" sold for $110. Father 
and "bails" totalled around Hesburgh, University president $750. emeritus, sold for $45. 
Two unidentified students attempt to raise "bail money" after being arrested as a part of HPC's "Bail A 
Designed to help publicize Last year, HPC raised over
Domer'' fundraiser. HPC raised close to $2500. 
the "Buy a Domer" fundraiser, $30, 000 with the fundraiser. 
Page speaks to students Saturday 
Women's College Appreciation Day 
By JASON WILLIAMS of Minnesota and earned his dents interested in legal affairs. 
Schedule of Events 
Assistant News Editor Jaw degree in 1978 while at the ''I'm going to talk about stu­same time playing professional dents becoming lawyers and Alan Page will speak Satur­football for the Minnesota the responsibility of being a 
day in part of the weekend-long Vikings. He was appointed As­lawyer," he said. "It will pri­
Saturday 

celebration of the twentieth sistant Attorney General to the marily be directed towards law 
anniversary of the University's State of Minnesota in 1987, and students, but it would be some­
11:3(} a.m. t~ 1 p.m. Sister Chain. Pit}ing Hall. 
Black Law Students Associa­was elected Justice to the Min­thing that would fit the general 
tion. nesota Supreme Court last fall. student population as well." 
J;'15 p,m. to 2 p.m~ Alumnae Speaker, Mary Lauck, Page. an associate justice of He was recognized last sum­Page was asked to speak in 
Class of 79. Stapleton Lounge, le Mans Hall. 
the Minnesota Supreme Court, mer by the University for his part of this weekend's celebra­graduated from Notre Dame in educational work through the tion last fall by Maya Whitmore, 
2:15p.m. to 4 p.m. Creative Release, group activity 
1967 while receiving All­Page Education Foundation. co-chair of the Black Law Stu­
~ ~!~ut;§ion. R~ina North lOlJnge, Regina J:laU.
American status as a football The foundation gives grants for dents Association. She said player. After graduating, Page minority, urban students to help Page was selected for his out­went on to the National Football them defer college costs. Page standing educational and pro­League where he was the first was awarded the Reverend fessional achievements. 
. "· ... 

defensive player in NFL history Edward Frederick Sorin Award "We we're trying to think of a to receive the league's Most for his efforts. person who exemplified the Valuable Player Award. Page said he will direct his 
see Page I page 4 

Page attended the University words tomorrow towards stu-


page 2 Friday,March 19,1993
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Storm of the Century teaches us to drop classes 
The Storm of the Century'll do a lot to a man. 

It'll make him think about where he's going. It'll make him think about where he's been. And it'll make him think about where he is right now. Rolando de 

And right now, I'm not Aguiar enjoying one of my classes Viewpoint Editor very much. 
We were making good time last Saturday on the way back from Florida. There was no snow until we passed Macon. It seemed like the South had coped with Superstorm '93 relatively well. Sure, the radio told me that half a million Georgians had no power. But they'd be all right. A little cold never hurt anyone except the fruit. 
As we headed north, the roads were clear, and no one on Atlanta's AM dial had told me that the interstate had already been closed for a day. 
But after a couple of hours of snow Saturday night, the car slid to a stop, 50 miles north o Atlanta on l-75. There was something was different about this traffic jam. Eight hours later, when cars began moving again, I realized that it had been huge. 
Thousands of college students from across the Midwest had been stuck. All of them would miss class Monday, and most would miss on Tuesday. 
Predictably, the sympathetic Notre Dame administration denied university excuses to those of us stranded on 75 and 65 and at Dulles and Logan and Hartsfield. · 
But that was okay. Any professor who didn't understand, who marked us absent or failed us on Tuesday's midterm deserved to have his or her course dropped. 
All of my professors understood. But I'm going to drop a class anyway. Today's the last day to do it, and life, as I learned in the storm, is too enjoyable to waste in boring, unfulfilling classrooms. 
What would have happened had we run out o gas, and wandered into the north Georgia 
wilderness, playing the midwinter '90s Deliverance, hearing the plucked notes o "Dueling Banjos" (though the only real noise was the whistling wind and the far-off sound o diesel engines idling)? 
It all could have ended so quickly. The three o us would have been statistics-college dropouts. Life is here today. It could be gone tomorrow. We need to do my best to live while we have 
the chance. We need to take advantage of the time we have in school, which may be the last chance we'll have (if all goes badly) to sleep late on weekdays. I don't want to get up before noon anymore. I don't want to write that final paper or study for that exam. I don't want to learn about people and things that, frankly, I don't care about. I just don't wanna. 
So I'm gonna drop that class. You should too. 
Because you never know when you'll need that extra three hours a week. And you never know when you'll run into another Storm of the Century. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

WORLD Serbs block U.N. convoys 
• SARAJEVO-Serbs blocked vital U.N. convoys to desperate Srebrenica and two other Muslim enclaves Thursday, and subjected Sarajevo to one of the worst assaults of the Bosnian war. Bosnian army defense lines appeared to be crumbling in Srebrenica, where tens of thousands of desperate residents and refugees are trapped, freezing and near starvation. Under U.N. pressure, Bosnian Serbs initially allowed the three blocked aid convoys into Bosnia on Wednesday and Thursday. But they then stopped all three, demonstrat­ing their hold over much of eastern Bosnia regardless of international criticism and peace talks in New York. Many of the refugees are living in the open, and gun .and knife fights over airdropped U.S. food reportedly k1lled four people Wednesday. 
NATIONAL Bile~ favors minority scholarships 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
OF INTEREST 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cold today with a 50 percent chance of snow. Highs in the lower to middle 30s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  33  11  
Atlanta  60  34  
Bogota  70  48  
Cairo  63  48  
Chicago  31  14  
Cleveland  23  10  
Dallas  58  49  
De trod  26  14  
Indianapolis  34  18  
Jerusalem  50  37  
London  59  52  
Los Angeles  73  59  
Madrid  73  46  
Minneapolis  26  00  
Moscow  43  36  
Nashville  45  26  
New Vorl<  29  13  
Paris  61  43  
Philadelphia  30  16  
Rome  62  39  
Seattle  50  43  
South Bend  30  12  
Tokyo  54  39  
Washington, D.C.30  19  


Eddie MurRhy marries model 
INDIANA 

CALL expected to protest at clinic 
• SOUTH BEND-Fewer than 100 Midwest college students have heeded a call to join a spring break abortion protest so far, but the group's director said Thursday that they could still be effective. Eighteen members of the group Collegians Activated to Liberate Life. or CALL, were arrested in Gary this week after blocking the entrance to an abortion clinic. The group has also protested outside the Women's Pavilion clinic in South Bend, and a couple hundred supporters were expected to demonstrate there again .on Fri.day, said Peter Heers, director of CALL. The anti-abortion group recruited students from 70 college campuses in 10 Midwestern states for the two-week conference, but so far only about 60 to 70 students have shown up. The local chapter of the National Organization for Women !s organizing counter-demonstrations at the Women s Pavilion. 
Today's Staff: 
News  
Jason Williams  Accent  
Katie Murphy  Kenya Johnson  
Bevin Kovalik  
Production  
Brian Faiola  Etc.  
Kim Massman  Donald J. Modila  
Sports  Viewpoint  
Jenny Marten  Rolando deAguiar  
Shayne Bushfield  
Business  Allison Ebel  
Susan Marx  
John Connorton  
Gerrie Hamilton  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• A Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 11:30 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips chapel.  • The Notre Dame PomPon squad tryout clinic will be on Sunday, March 21 from 1 to 4 p.m. at the J.A.C.C.  
• Libor Dudas will play Bach's Goldberg Variations Saturday at 4 p.m. at the Annenberg Auditorium.  

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 18 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 237.867,450 -1.48 to 247.33 S&P COMPOSITE -3.06 to 448.31 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -16.21 to 3426.7 4 UNCHANGED 598 GOLD + $.20 to $330.60 oz. SILVER + $0.021 to $3.533 oz.  • In 1903: The U.S. gained naval bases at Guantanomo and Bahia Honda. • In 1924: U.S. troops were sent to the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa as the city was taken by rebel forces. • In 1936: Floods swept 12 Midwestern states, leaving 134 dead and 200,000 homeless. • In 1949: The Soviet People's Council signed the constitu­tion of German Democratic Republic. • In 1962: Troops in Guatemala imposed a state of siege. • In 1981: One technician was killed and two others were injured during a test on the space shuttle Columbia in Florida.  

-~­

Friday, March 19, The Observer page 3 
Notre Dame Law and Graduate Schools retain high standing 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame Law School rates 20th and the Graduate School of Business rates in the second group of 25 in the latest 
U.S. News &World Report sur­vey of the best graduate schools in the United States, which ap­pears in this week's edition of the magazine. 
Both schools had the same ranking in last year's survey. 
"We're delighted about it and will continue to try and be bet­ter," said Associate Dean of the Law School Walter Pratt. 
"The ranking is good news. We will respond to those areas where we are stronger or weaker," said Joseph Guiltinan, associate dean of the School of Business. 
Constantly striving to im­prove, the business school has developed a new semester abroad program in Chile, in addition to its London semester program. The program will fo­cus on international finance and marketing and Latin Amer­ican Economic issues. 
"Programs like these can only improve our ranking," said Guiltinan. "Right now our priority is lowering our accep­tance rate and such programs will help this." 
"As long as we continue to educate lawyers about service to others, our rankings will continue to improve,"said Pratt.· "There is no doubt that this is an important guide and that the ranking is valuable." 
Yale University took top honors on the list of law schools as did Harvard University on the list of business schools. 
The nation's 268 accredited MBA programs were ranked according to their performance in the categories of student se­lectivity, placement success and retention. 



NUTRA RUN 
March 21-Mishawaka, IN 
10K RUN • SK RUN 
2 MILE FUN WALK 
·on-site registration 11 a.m.-1 p.m. -$15 Starting time 1:30 p.m., at the Battell Center 
For additional information: 

BAlTELL CENTER 904 N. Main St., Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 258-1606 
Sponsored by Northern Indiana Dietetic 
Assoc. and Battell Community Center 
~==-=================================]' 

Want to maximize your performance on the LSAT? Learn what the test covers and effective test-taking strategies from the company that knows the test makers best. Classes begin Monday, March 22nd at our South Bend Center, 1717 East South Bend Avenue. For more infonnation or to enroll, call (219)272-4135 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
•. ·:: ... 

1  Yale University  
2  Harvard University  
3  Stanford University  
4  University of Chicago  
5  Columbia University  
6  New York University  
7  University of Michigan  
8  University of Virginia  
9  Duke University  
10  Georgetown University  
11  University of Pennsylvania  
12  University of California at Berkeley  
13  Northwestern University  
14  Cornell University  
15  University of Texas  
16  Vanderbilt University (Tenn) .  
17  University of California at Los Angeles  
18  University of Southern California  
19  Boston College  
20  University of Notre Dame  
21  George Washington University  
22  University of Wisconsin  
23  University of California-Hastings  
24  University of Iowa  
25  University of Minnesota  

Saint Mary's holds forum to discuss issues of sexuality and relationships 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Although much progress has been made in homosexuality acceptance over the past few years, more progress still needs to be made, according to a panel on women's sexuality at Saint Mary's last night. 
Two students spoke of their experiences with "coming out" while at Saint Mary's, citing both accepting atmospheres and confusion in their decision 
to publicly reveal their homo­
sexuality. 

Happy Birthday, Amy and Alison! 
Love, The Rat Pack 
One Saint Mary's student, who admitted to being lesbian, said that while she had always been comfortable in heterosexual relationships throughout high school, she felt that something was missing, and did not even think of facing the fact that she had a sexual difference until she had the freedom of living at college, away from home. 
Contacting a support group such as Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) was difficult, she said, because it represented an official admission that she was 



MARCH MADNESS! 

r---;;----, .--------, r---~~----,
1 1~ 14 L:~rge 1 1Breadsticks1 1 4~ 14 Large I 1 1 TC?ppmg I I $ OO I I 1 Topping I 
I Ptzza I I I I · I
1­

1with stix and 2 suft drinks 1 1 + Tax 1 1 Ptzzas 1 I $1 OQQ+ I I .... I I $199£ I L....._IT..,..,..,;,,.~ I I .. . I IA.l,,•~'T'""'"~'"···· I 
L.·~=·~~~·=·--~ [!tt~e;£!r:;;_}~---.J L:~="~'~~·--..1 
HOURS 
M-Th -11:00 a.m.· 1:00 a.m. Fri-Sat -11:00 a.m.-4:00a.m. Sun-Noon-1:00 a.m. 

Free Delivery 

exploring homosexuality. 
"It was really scary to think I was going to be a part of a mi­nority group," she said. 
She added that although the support of GLND/SMC, not an officially recognized campus group, was helpful in her ac­ceptance of homosexuality, she faced opposition and harass­ment from the community. 
"I had harassing phone calls that scared the hell out of me," she said. "But I didn't feel that I did anything to provoke this." 
The college does provide an open atmosphere which en­courages students to be both accepting of others and of themselves, said several other members ofthe community. 
However, this is confused by Saint Mary's Catholic nature, which frowns on homosexuality. 
"We have to decide which side of the ·renee we want to come down on," said Mid De­Pauw, director o( the Center of Counseling and Career Devel­opment. 
"We can either not educate students because of Church be­liefs, or answer their questions and present information. One of the things that Saint Mary's and the Sisters of the Holy Cross have always said is that women must interpret and think for themselves.·" 
Despite questions on teach­ing, the college does provide an open atmosphere, said 1992 graduate Karen Jurgenson, who "came out" the second semester of her senior year. 
"It was safer for me to come out here than at home," she said. "But we need to talk about sexuality here. We need to have real conversations about what I want."' 
The forum was sponsored by the office of Minority, Interna­tional, and Non-Traditional (MINT) students, and a group of seniors, Delia Garcia, Renee Young, Tina Buchanan, and Sarah Fisko, who call them­selves the Saint Mary's "Really Groovy Women." 
Conserve Water Shower with a friend 
---------~~-­
page 4 The Observer Friday, March 19, 1993 
Page 
continued from page 1 


Alan Page 

overall theme we want to get across this weekend," she said. "I've met him before and I thought he would really be a dynamic speaker." 
Other events seheduled for the weekend inelude a recep­tion Saturday morning for stu­dents and faeulty, an intramu­ral basketball game, a dinner to recognize third year students and a eareer panel with Alumni fielding questions. 
"The career panel will give students a ehance to ask ques­tions about law schools and fields of expertise," Whitmore said. "We'll have seven differ­ent types of attorneys specializ­ing in different fields." 
Whitmore said she eneour­ages both graduate and under­graduate students to attend all the events. 
Page speaks in 101 DeBartolo Hall at 7:30p.m. Saturday. 

continued from page 1 

and enthusiasm," Talking up their platform which features a one-activity-a month series is one way Swift's ticket will campaign, according to Siragusa. 
According to Johnson, focus­ing on the proposed campus-

I obacco taxes continue to skyrocket depleted revenues, smokers to blame 
(AP)-It seems to make perfect sense -if cigarettes rob Americans of their health, why not tax them more to help pay for health insurance? 
One answer: Because rev­enues from tobacco taxes are crumbling like the ash on a cheap cigar, along with the percentage of Americans who smoke. 
They're butting out for health reasons or because tax increases make it too expen­sive. Either way, the public treasury is taking a hit. 
A 50-state survey by Associ­ated Press bureaus found 20 states reporting tobacco prod­uct tax revenues in decline and 11 others that were in decline until they raised their excise tax. The rest generally were static. 
The same goes for federal tobacco revenues, which fell until the excise tax went up from 16 cents to 20 cents a paek in 1991. This year it went up to 24 cents. 
While tobacco taxes yield lots of ready money at first, they're unlikely to provide long-term funding for something huge and growing like universal health care. 
w1 e recyc mg program IS a way for her ticket to keep in the race. "We really did the best we could. Hopefully, people will change their vote in our favor," she said. 
Students will decide whether or not to change their vote at the run-offs on Monday. Voting will take place during all meals at the dining hall while off­campus students can vote 1-3 
p.m. in the off-campus lounge. 


!:i 
272-1880 
+llCKORU 
DlLLA(3E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-S, 
Sat. 1o-4 & Sun. 12-4 

Call it The Ineredible Shrinking Tax Base. 
In 1965, the year after the first U.S. surgeon general's re­port linked smoking to eancer, 
42.4 percent of Americans over 18 smoked. By 1990 that figure had dropped to 25.5 percent. 
Accordingly, government treasuries have eased their de­pendence on tobacco. 
Among the states, tobacco taxes peaked in 1968 in provid­ing 5.2 percent of state rev­enues. That share has fallen to 
1.9 percent. Smokers' current $5.8 billion contribution to the federal pot is 0.4 percent of all revenues, a mere puff com­pared to the 1.39 percent in 1968. 
This pattern rev­enues has two ehief causes, economists say. 
Tobacco taxes don't grow with the economy, necessitating regular hikes. And when tobacco taxes get high enough, some smokers quit and would­be smokers don't start. Another effect can be bootlegging and black markets. 
The Minnesota Revenue De­partment offered this equation: For every 10 percent increase in the price of cigarettes, sales fall 4.5 percent. 
The tax on smokers is "a mechanism to limit consump­tion," Mark Muchow, chief tax analyst for the West Virginia Division of Tax and Revenue. 
"Every time the cigarette tax is increased, a few more people say, 'It's time to quit."' 
Cigarettes cost, on average, $1.90 a pack, including the 24 cent federal tax and state taxes that range from Virginia's 2.5 cents to Massachusetts' 51 cents. 
"It's a lot easier to add a few cents to the cigarette tax to close the budget gap, than to raise the sales tax," said Doug Olberding; a researeher at the Council of State Governmnnts in Lexington. Ky. 
New York is fairly typical. Hevenues on tobacco products slid from $606 million in fiseal 1991, to $596 million in fiscal 1992. This year they're pro­jected at $557 million. 
Or take California, which pumped up its cigarette tax from 10 cents a pack to 35 cents in 1989. That only briefly stopped the natural slide in revenues. Cigarette excise taxes jumped from $560 mil­lion in fiscal 1989 to $787 mil­lion in fiscal 1990, but started to fall again the next year. 
Yet this steady, if diminishing cash flow, remains attractive to lawmakers, and even presidents. 


also available. 
Hours: Mon... Tues. 11:OO.. 9:30 Wed... Sat. 11:00.. 10:00 Sunday 4:00.. 9:30 
-~------~---­
Friday, March 19, 1993 
Florida seeks answers 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) ­
Gov. Lawton Chiles released 
transcripts Thursday that he 
said show the National Weather 
Service failed to warn of killer 
tides last week along Florida's 
Gulf coast until it was too late. 
At least 10 people died when 9 
to 12 feet of water swept their 
houses away during the storm. 
The transcripts are of con­versations between state emergency officials and weather service officials during the weekend storm. According to the transcripts, a flood warning for the hard-hit upper Gulf of Mexico coast didn't come Saturday until well after the wall of water began to hit shore. 
According to the transcripts, an unidentified weather service official in Tampa issued the warning after getting reports that seas were 3 to 4 feet above normal in Hernando and Pinellas counties. 
The storm is blamed for 44 deaths in Florida from dozens of tornadoes, hurricane-force winds, and related accidents. 
Paul Kocin, research meteo­
rologist at the National Meteo­
rological Center in Camp 
Springs, Md., said the storm 
developed unexpectedly into 
something resembling a hurri­
cane, which forecasters had 
never seen before. 
"I don't think you'll find any other case in this century of a storm developing into a hurri­cane in that manner," Kocin said. "The intensification in the northern Gulf is going to re­quire some research." 
The weather service accu­rately predicted most aspects of the storm, including the torna­does, blizzards and rain that raked the nation's East Coast, Kocin said. 
Chiles wrote to top weather service officials Wednesday seeking an explanation, but said he wasn't trying to blame storm deaths on the agency. 
"I don't want to get into this who-shot-who," Chiles said. "What we're interested in is why there was no advance warning of the storm surge and flooding." 

Molly ''Tapsy'' O'Brien 
is turning 20! 
Call 284~4351 and wish her a happy birthday. 

HAVE A GOOD ONE, PRETTY MAMA! LOVE, THE KING, TIPPER, GRAMMY, AND THE REST OF YOUR FANS. 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame inaugurated four endowed fac­ulty chairs and installed seven chaired professors during cer­emonies March 16 on campus. 
• Donald Kommers was in­stalled as Joseph and Elizabeth Robbie chair in government and international studies. The editor of "The Review of Poli­tics," he holds a concurrent ap­pointment in the Notre Dame Law School and teaches in the fields of American and com­parative constitutional law, Eu­ropean law and institutions, and German politics. 
Kommers has spent several years of his academic career in Germany, most recently as a senior fellow in the Max Planck Institute of International and Comparative Public Law in Hei­delberg, and in 1987 was a Fulbright lecturer at the Uni­versity of Tokyo. 
• 
George Marsden, immediate past president of the American Society of Church History. was installed as Francis McAnaney professor of history. An authority on the history of fundamentalism in American Christianity, Marsden has done research encompassing the history of American Christian­ity, ranging from the 17th century to the present. 

• 
John Christian Olsen, a spe­cialist in the regulation of cor­porate disclosure and the use of corporate information releases by investors, will be installed as Arthur Andersen and Company Alumni professor of accoun­tancy. Graduated from South­ern Methodist University and the holder of a doctoral degree from Stanford, Olsen comes to 


-------~--_..._.,______________, 
The Observer page 5 


University inagurates four chairs; installs seven new professors 

Donald Kommers 
Notre Dame from the account­ing faculty of the University of Texas at Austin. 
• Rabbi Michael Signer, will be installed as Abrams profes­sor of Jewish thought and cul­ture. A specialist in the history of Jewish-Christian relations as reflected in Christian and Jew­ish interpretation of the Hebrew scriptures in the medieval and modern periods, he was educated at the University of California at Los Angeles, He­brew Union College, and the University of Toronto, where he earned his doctorate in me­dieval studies He was ordained a rabbi in 1970. 
Signer's research currently focuses on the interaction be­tween religion and culture in medieval Europe and new paradigms for theological re­flections between Christians and Jews in the 20th century. 
• F. Richard Ciccone, Chicago Tribune managing editor for the past decade, is the visiting W. Harold and Martha Welch professor of American studies. Under his charge the Tribune won a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 for its coverage of the Chicago City 


March marks the> time to celebrate Women's HistofY>Month-;..-.. a time when we recognize women's contributions to and relationships with society throughout history. 


The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is proud to offer a selection of inspiring titles which encompass a rich diversity of topics: family, history, feminism, .·. religion, sexuality, self/esteem, and more. 


Women's History Month 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campu,s " 
Open Monday through Saturday 9 a~m. -Sp."l. 



George Marsden 

Council, and in 1989 his news­paper's coverage of the savings and loan debacle won the As­sociate Press Managing Editors Public Service Award. 
A 1961 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Ciccone has covered presi­dential campaigns since 1968, as well as 14 national political conventions. Prior to joining the Tribune in 1976, he was an Associated Press reporter and editor for eleven years in the Chicago Bureau. 
• Georges Enderle, a widely­noted business philosopher, is the visiting Arthur and Mary O'Neil professor of international business ethics. A member of the faculty of the University of St. Gallen in Switzerland, he has taught both ethics and economic theory. 
He was educated in philoso­phy at the Philosophische Hochschule in Munich, Ger­many, and also studied at the Faculte de Theologie in Lyon, France. He has earned two doctorates-in economics from the University of Fribourg (Switzerland) and in business ethics from the University of St. Gallen. 
In his research he is particu­larly interested in searching for a common ethical ground for international business and in .the contribution the world's re­ligions might make toward establishing that common ground. 
• James Olsen, chief scientist of the 600-person Flight Dy­namics Directorate at the United States Air Force's Wright Laboratory, is the visiting Melchor professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. He oversees aerodynamics, flight control, aircraft structures and dynamics, and subsystems, such as landing gear and canopies, at the laboratory. 
Educated at the University of Minnesota and Ohio State Uni­versity, he specializes in aeroe­lasticity, unsteady aerodynam­ics and finite element methods for structural and dynamic analysis and design. 
The endowed chairs inaugu­rated Tuesday were the Robbie chair, the McAnaney chair, the Arthur-Andersen and Co. alumni chair, and the O'Neil chair. The University has established 110 endowed chairs, 71 of which are fully funded and filled. 

page6 The Observer Friday, March 19, 1993 
SECURITY BEAT 

MON., MARCH 1 

3:44 p.m. Security responded to an injured University employee at the Rockne Memorial Building. The victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
4:01 p.m. A Mishawaka resident reported the theft of his license plate while his vehicle was parked in the C-1 parking lot. 
4:47 p.m. A Walsh Hall resident reported the theft of her c-oat from the Rockne Memorial building. 
7:51 p.m. A Pasquerilla East called Security to report a case of vandalism to her vehicle while it was parked in the D-2 lot. 
10:04 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of part of his bicycle while it was secured to a bike rack between Morrissey Hall and Howard Hall. 

TUES., MARCH 16 

11 :4l a.m. A Notre Dame graduate student reported the theft of one of their vehicle's wheels while it was parked in the graduate housing parking lot. 
9:48 p.m. Security responded to an injured St. Edwards Hall resident. The victim was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center by ambulance. 
11:09 p.m. Security responded to an injured Lyons Hall resident. The victim was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center by ambulance. 

WED., MARCH 17 

1:48 a.m. A St. Joseph, Michigan man was arrested for driving while intoxicated on Edison Road. 
9:55 a.m. University contracted employees reported the theft of their tools from the Hesburgh Library to Security. 
10:25 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of his vehicle's parking decal while it was parked off campus. 
11:21 a.m. Security stopped a South Bend resident for speeding on Edison Road. 
11:27 a.m. Security transported an Alumni Hall resident from the sidewalk at University Club Drive to the Student Health Center. 
3:57 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of some office supplies from her office at Hayes/Healey to Security. 
4:30 p.m. A Notre Dame graduate student reported a case of vandalism to his apartment to Security. 
7:30 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported a case of vandalism to his vehicle while it was parked in the D·6 parking lot. 

THURS., MARCH18 

1:49 a.m. Security stopped a Kalamazoo, Michigan resident for speeding on Edison Road. 
10:41 a.m. A University employee reported a case of vandalism to his vehicle while it was parked in the Green Field lot. 
1:00 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his vehicle's parking decal while it was parked in the B-2 parking lot. 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Professors, students, and family members filled the Barry Moot Courtroom of the Law School yesterday to honor members of the the Notre Dame Law School's trial advocacy team which recently scored a first place victory in the National Trial Competition. 
Competing in the finals round held in San Antonio on March 12, third year law students Edward Sullivan, Frank Kros, and Dominique Camacho were persuasive enough to survive intense competition and prevail over 21 other college advocacy teams. 
"We're thrilled," David Link, professor and Matson Dean explained. "We think we've always had strong trial advocacy teams, but to gain the national recognition of the national championship is really important." 
The team competition involved the presentation of detailed oral arguments of a murder case, according to Link. The case the team worked on involved a golf pro who allegedly murdered his boss while he lay in bed with the golf pro's estranged wife. 
Kros was so successful in presenting the closing arguments for the team, he was selected by the judges and lawyer-evaluators as the "Best Oral Advocate" which according to Sullivan, was the "Heisman Trophy" of the national competition. 
"This is the closest thing to athletics, but it's also very draining," said Sullivan, a former Villanova University football player. 
The draining part of the competition came in the form of the 200 hours of practice and preparation Link estimates the team put in. In addition to research and library work, the members of the team practiced 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms Furnished Studios Pool &Volleyball 

AmPricans consume 20 to 25 times 
Laundry Facility 

more sodium than they need, and 
f'JD Shuttle Service 

sodium can contribute to high blood 
City Bus Line 

pressurp in sensitive individuals says 
2/10 of a mile from campus 

the American Heart Association. 
Affordable Student Housing 

1hink twice






BURN 
and save 20 percent.


VICTIM. 
,.:2_~ 
ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES~· 
r.wl APublic Serv1ce of the USDA Forest Serv1ce and [l'.):l your State Forester 

Law students Dominique Camacho, Frank Kros, and Edward Sullivan are joined by Dean David Link as they 
display their championship award from the National Trial Competition. 
and rehearsed their arguments in front of several professors, lawyers, judges, and former students. 
"It's so much work, but it gave me confidence that when I walk into a courtroom, I can stand up and be competent," Camacho said. 
Preparing for four hours daily for the advocacy competition, in addition to a regular law school course load was difficult, but rewarding, according to Kros. 
"It was a challenge, but also a great opportunity to have five good attorneys giving us feedback and helping to make us better attorneys the national championship is just the icing on the cake," he said. 
The national championship is a great achievement for the trial advocacy programs at Notre Dame, but the purpose of the program is primarily to help law students improve their skill 
Now Accepting Applications 

in delivering oral arguments, according to James Seckinger, professor and former trial advocacy coach. 
"First and foremost this is about the education process. We're in this program to help you become better lawyers­the best this school can make you. But winning ain't bad either," he said, addressing the members of the advocacy team. 
While this year's national championship team is no longer eligible for more competition, another team of second year law students, narrowly defeated in regional competition, will be even better next year, according to Link. 
"We generally place high in the trial advocacy competitions. I will not be surprized if we repeat," Link said. 
Northwestern llniversity Summer Session '9 3 11Jink or swim. 
Our multicourst• re~istration discount saves you ..!0 percent on two courses. 2<; 11ercent on thn•e or more. Call 1-H00-1'1\DS \l (in Illinois. call ~0Hf.t9 I·~ IH) or mail this mupon. 
I'm thinkinJ.:. Send me a fret· cop) of the Summer Session '9:1 catalog with financial aid and registration information (available in Man·h). Please send IIH' catalog to LJ my home :..J my school. Summer Session, lOO.i Sheridan Hoad Evanston, Illinois 6020H-2C!~U 
School Address 
City Stale Zip 
llome Address 
Stale Zip 

~-------------------------------­
1 I • ( . I ~ • • I ' I ·.,: \ 1 ... 
Friday, March 19, 1993 
Women play crucial role in Chilean democracy 
By CHRISSY HALL 
News Writer 
"The Women's Movement and the Transition to Democracy in Chile" was the subject of a lecture given by Annie Danderati of Hope College at the Hesburgh Center on Thursday afternoon. 
The significance of the women's movement in Chile, according to Danderati, is how different it is to the women's movement in Brazil and in other countries who have re­cently made the transition to democracy. 
The long standing tradition of democracy in Chile was dis­rupted in 1973 when the coun­try's government was replaced by a military regime. In the beginning, many women played a role in launching the military government but later withdrew their support when the new regime neglected their needs, said Danderati. 
The military government in­troduced a new concept of so­ciety and state as well as new ideas regarding the roles of Chile's citizens, said Danderati. Men were expected to adopt a "machismo" role. The women, on the other hand, were to limit their participation in the community to becoming wives and mothers. 

Danderati said their sole re­sponsibility was to raise good Chilean children who would homogenize into their society while remaining focused on the hierarchy of their government. 
The ideas of the women's movement led to a possible problem of national security. Yet, the main thrust of the mili­tary government during the period between 1973-83 was accompanied by the rise of the women's movement, according to Danderati. 
She also said the Chilean women that became involved in governmental issues and The Observer/T.J. Harris women's rights were concerned Annie Danderati, a professor from Hope College, lectures on ''The Women's Movement and the Transition to .. 
with three main issues: Democracy in Chile" . economic concerns, feminist 
had been exiled during the pe­issues, and human rights. 
riod of military power were re­An explosion of the majorities called into the country. One ofoccurred in .1983, causing the the two main parties were thewoman's movement, as well as 
Democratic Alliance, which
other movements, to come to consisted of members of thethe forefront. 
Christian Democratic Party andAccording to Danderati, the of Socialists. The other mainmilitary regime refused to ne­party was the NDP, which wasgotiate with anyone except rep­Communist-based.
resentatives from political par­The women's movement, said ties. Therefore, the parties that 
Danderati, consisted of two factions that joined together to side with the Democratic Al­liance. One part of the women's movement were the feministas, who wanted change at a cultural level and believed that negotiation with political parties would not help their cause. 
The politicas, on the other hand, believed that negotiating with political parties would en­able them to reach their goals, she said. Despite the diversity within the women's movement they succeeded in creating a united front. The ability to construct a coalition, she added, is what has led to the continuation of the women's movement in Chile. 


By BRIAN POSNANSKI Staff Writer 
Rita Francis defeated Edward Wingenbach yesterday in the Graduate Student Union presi­dential election winning 84 of 123 votes. 
Both candidates admitted there was little difference be­tween their platforms. They both were strong supporters of establishing a Women's Re­source Center on campus. 
Francis is the former Chair­woman of the GSU's Quality of Life Committee. The University is currently reviewing this committee's proposals on child care and health insurance. 
While the University reviews the committee's proposal, the GSU will undergo a transition. During the next month, Francis will fill the positions of vice­president, treasurer and secre­tary. The Graduate Student Council will review her selec­tions at their general meeting on April 7 and finalize the posi­tions at that time. 
Wingenbach was also opti­mistic. ''I'm very happy with the results," he said. "She's more qualified and better pre­pared for the position than I was. I look forward to continue working with her in the future." 
Total voter turnout was slightly larger than last year, from 110 to 127. Four ballots were disqualified as illegiti­mate. There are 1300 eligible voters. 
Students who want to apply for GSU offices can contact Rita Francis in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, or they can call the GSU office at 631-6963. The deadline is April 1. 

I Campus Shops :
Gain va ua e wor experience ing a 
: 1837 South Bend Avenue 1 
I 271-9540 I I WePutASmileOnYoU<T05te!• expires 3/26/93 I
position with the Student Business Board 
L----------------------~-~~
Help run an organization with sales of 
nearly $100,000 per year! 
The Business Board is responsible for the operations of the Three Student Run Business: 
Irish Gardens Adworks Notre Dame Video 
257,1100 
Applications for General Manager (Seniors to be) will be due 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" 
Authentic New York Pizza
on Friday, March 26. Applications for Assistant General 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli
Manager (Juniors to be) will be due on Friday, April2. 
3 and 6 foot Party Subs All applications can be picked up in the Student Government 
For Fast Delivery
office on the 2nd floor in LaFortune. Interviews will follow. 
Call273, 2EAT 
ease call Matt Cenedella at 631~3504. 
$2 off any pizza'with Student ID 


----------------------~--~--------------------------------------~----~------~----------~----­
page 8 The Observer Friday, March 19, 1993 
Woman recalls blooody masacre given by America.n-trained troops 

EL MOZOTE, El Salvador (AP) -Tears still well in Rufina Amaya's eyes as she recalls the night the American-trained soldiers of the Atlacatl Battalion entered this mountain village and virtually wiped it off the map. 
It was Dec. 10, 1981. Amaya is one of two known survivors. 
"They killed a few of us that night but it was on the 11th, the next morning, that the real massacre took place," she said in an interview in the nearby village of Segundo Montes, where she works with a Chris­tian women's group. 
"They closed us up in houses and in the morning they brought people out in groups to be killed," she said. "First the
The Observer/ T.J. Harris 

fathers, then the mothers, then the children." 
Going once, going twice, sold! 
The two auctioneers participate in HPC's "Buy A Domer" activity to 
Amaya crawled away and hid
raise money for the Beeler-Hipp scholarship fund. 



Tensions heat-up in Korea 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ­South Korean leaders tried to assure their people Thursday that the dispute over North Ko­rea's nuclear program would not lead to war. 
Tensions began growing last week. when the North unex­pectedly announced that it was quitting the nuclear Non-Prolif­eration Treaty, thus releasing it from the obligation to allow in­ternational inspections of its nudear sites. 
The withdrawal reinforced suspicions that the hard-line Communist North is developing nuclear weapons, despite its denials. South Korea, the United States and other West­ern nations denounced the North's decision. 
The North, in turn, blames rising tensions on the divided peninsula on U.S.-South Korean war exercises that ended on Thursday. 
A South Korean newspaper reported Thursday that Seoul would be willing to discontinue the maneuvers if the North would rejoin the treaty, but the South's foreign minister said he knew nothing about this. 
In Vienna, Austria, mean­while, the International Atomic Energy Agency held a special meeting to discuss persuading North Korea to reconsider. 
It urged South Koreans to press for the withdrawal of all 
U.S. troops and nuclear weapons from their nation, saying that if U.S. "adventures" led to nuclear war, the Korean peninsula would be the first place devastated. 
South Korea has said it is free of nuclear weapons, but the North maintains that U.S. troops stationed there keep nu­clear arms in the country. 
The North has declared a "semi-war" footing to protest the U.S.-South Korean war games, which it maintains could suddenly turn into a real invasion. 
South Korean Prime Minister Hwang In-sung, however, dis­counted the threat on war, saying Thursday that the real threat came from the North's withdrawal from the nuclear treaty. 
"The people are worried about a war because of North Korea's withdrawal from the (nuclear treaty), but there is no war under the current situation," Hwang said in a Cabinet meeting. 
The South's defense minister, Kwon Young-bae, told the Cabinet there had been no sign of extraordinary movements by 
-~­
SAINI MAI~Y'S COLLI CE 
t\ORffiU CtnTfR 
fOR l11f <fl RTS 
TONIGHT! 8 P.M., LITTLETHEATRE 
Top offyour St. Pat's activities with 

A celebration of Renaissancejazz and traditional Irish music 


North Korea's military, except for its high-alert footing. 
Still, rumors about an immi­nent war led some South Kore­ans to stock up on basic neces­sities, news reports said. 
The North invaded South Ko­rea in 1950. The fighting ended in 1953, but no treaty was signed and the countries tech-· nically remain at war. 
In related developments: 
• Foreign Minister Han Sung­joo said U.S. troops par­ticipating in the joint games would not extend their stay be­cause of the dispute, as earlier suggested by the government. The troops' prompt departure after the exercises is seen as an effort to defuse the tensions. 
About 19,000 U.S. troops backed by troop carriers, F­11 7 A stealth bombers and Air Force B-1B bombers came for the 10-day exercises. About 36,000 U.S. troops are based in South Korea under a defense treaty. 
• On Thursday, 300 radical students chanting anti-Ameri­can slogans rallied near the 
U.S. Embassy in downtown Seoul to protest the exercises. 
• Han said North Korea's withdrawal from nuclear con­trols should be handled as an international crisis. 
among some pineapple plants. She lost 21 family members, among them her husband and four children, the youngest 8 months old. 
"From where I was hiding I could hear them cry and scream," she said, wiping an eye with a dusty apron. 
A report released Monday by the United Nations blamed the Atlacatl Battalion, trained ear­lier that year in the United States, and its leader, Col. Domingo Monterrosa 
Anywhere from a few hundred to 1,000 people were slain at El Mozote and four nearby hamlets during the offensive in the rebel-held hills of north­eastern El Salvador. 
The commission that investi­gated the killing as part of the agreement that ended El Sal­vador's 12-year civil war sug­gested an American coverup at El Mozote. After a U.S. Embassy investigation at the time, the State Department said there was no evidence of a massacre. 
At the time, Congress was edgy about funding the Sal­vadoran government because of mounting reports of atrocities. The Reagan Administration was eager to help the government fight guerrillas, and didn't want reports of abuses to get in the way of its effort. 
"Our impression was that certain individuals in the Em­bassy were not interested in receiving that information," said Thomas Buergenthal, an American law professor who helped write Monday's report, in testimony in Washington this week. 

In a resolution, the agency said it was "urgent" that the North enable the agency "to take the necessary measures to resolve differences and to en­sure" compliance with a safe­guards agreement. 
"The name of the game in North Korea has to be nuclear transparency, and that means continuing inspections," said David Kyd, a spokesman for the 
U.N. agency. 

If North Korea continues to refuse nuclear inspections, possible actions include sanc­tions by the U.N. Security Council. 
North Korea maintains its nuclear program is peaceful and says two sites the agency has demanded to inspect are military installations it is not obligated to open to outsiders. 
The North's official Korean Central News Agency, moni­tored in Tokyo, said Thursday that the "dark clouds of an­other war" loomed because of 
U.S. efforts to pressure North Korea into agreeing to abide by the nuclear treaty. 
~~tnr~~J ~:~~ ~~IJ ~m TI~I~ (~n~~ ~t TI~I~ ~~m~ MffiD ~~ill!:~~-~:~~ H~IJ ~~~~ TI~I~ ~~.~~ 
~r ~[irt~rm lli~ ~~~ ~m~~ fli~~J H~~.~~ ~mil~ ~~nm -Mm~ rn~ f~mm~ winnm r~~~iv~ IW ~mil~ ~~nm -Mm~ rn~ ~mm~ winnm rn~~iY~ ~~ il~m~~~~ ~ mlli~ ~~~~~r-ID~~ M~m~nm ~~~~lm~ 


Business 
Friday, March 19, 1993 page 9 
Kraska details crisis management 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

Bentsen said national debt limit must be rai§td 
•WASHINGTON-Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said Thursday the government risks bounced checks unless Congress raises the national debt limit before taking a spring vacation; The current limit is $4.145 trillion. Bentsen asked that it be increased to $4.37 trillion through Sept. 30. March 26 marks the announcement of the regular auction of 52-week Treasury bills, which would settle on April 8. Periodic bills to increase the debt limit are a magnet for proposals that could not be enacted standing alone. During this go-round, Republicans have talked of attempting to attach a new mechanism for forcing spending cuts on the government. The U.S. government never has defaulted on a debt, and authorities say a default would be disastrous•. If investors who have always looked at the government as a bastion of safety had a change of heart, they might look elsewhere. 
SEC 1treamlines buying of mutual funds .WASHINGTON-Investors could purchase mutual fund shares simply by clipping coupons from newspaper ads and mailing a check under new rules proposed Thursday by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The SEC voted 4-0 to propose streamlining the procedure that now requires investors responding to mutual fund advertisements to first send for a prospectus and an application before purchasing shares. Proponents said it would promote competition in the $1.6 trillion mutual fund industry and lower annual fees and. expenses that reduce the value of the investment. The commission also unanimously adopted tighter disclosure rules for mutual funds. The rules will allow investors to compare how a particular fund has performed against the broader trend. 

GAO warns money needed for S&L cleanup · 
•WASHINGTON-Congress must provide more money for the savings and loan cleanup or risk depositor runs, the head of the General Accounting Office warned Thursday. In January 1991, depositors lined up outside Rhode Island credit unions after a state-sponsored insurance fund became insolvent. Ef'trlier this week, Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen asked Congress for $45 billion to finish the S&L cleanup -$28 billion to handle a backlog of 170 institutions that are expected to fail over the next year or have already failed but are still open and $17 billion to cover 105 failures from 1994 through 1998. The Congressional Budget Office estimates $50 billion, rather than $45 billion, will be needed to pay for S&L failures through 1998. Some private analysts say $45 billion should be more than enough to finish the job. 

ETC says telemarketing fraud is worsening 
•WASHINGTON-Fraudulent telemarketing is bad and getting worse, bilking the public of billions of dollars a year, the FBI and Federal Trade Commission told a Senate subcommittee Thursday. Elderly people are particularly vulnerable. Earlier this month, the FBI announced a telemarketing fraud sting, called "Operation Disconnect," which so far has led to 210 arrests and the execution of search warrants at 64 locations. Subcommittee Chairman Richard Bryan, D-Nev., has introduced legislation that defines fraudulent telemarketing practices more clearly and calls for more rules governing sales and delivery ofgoods. It also gives state attorneys general power to enforce federal telemarketing rules, expands the FTC's authority and gives private individuals greater ability to sue for damages. 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
Business Editor 
Dennis Kraska, President and CEO of the Enterprise Group Inc., discussed the field of crisis management and leveraged buyouts at the Entrepreneur's Club lecture series on Wednesday. 
Following a twenty-year ca­reer in various firms and busi­nesses, Kraska decided to cre­ate his own firm three years ago, the Enterprise Group in South Bend, that specializes in business turn-arounds. 
"I deal mostly with small companies, those in the $5 to $25 million range, and rarely smaller than $3 million," said Kraska. "Anything less isn't really worth my time or theirs." 
Most businesses fail because of poor management, Kraska said. Too often, management tries to blame external eco­nomic factors for poor company performance, when actually their personal performance caused the problems, Kraska continued. 
"Entrepreneur and managers don't realize that responsibility is a two part word. Re­sponsibilty basically is the abil­ity to respond. People often fail to look internally," Kraska said. 
Kraska emphasized that sal­vaging companies can be a complex and frustrating busi­ness, but, in the end, is well worth the time. 
"There is a definite art to turning businesses around, to understanding what's important and when," he continued. 
Finding customers, busi­nesses that are on the verge of going under, is one of the trickiest parts of his business, said Kraska. Jobs may be few and far between, but lightning usually strikes enough to make a good living, explained Kraska. 
"Every customer is unique. I don't do it in a systematic way. Basically, all my business is by word of mouth. One of you here in the audience may have an uncle whose business is failing, and you tell him about me. That's often how it happens." 
Kraska first got his start in business in a round-about way. "I went back to Loyola Univer­sity in Chicago to get an MBA in finance after I realized couldn't make a living with a philosophy degree." He also holds a CPA in the state of Illi­nois . 
"Success is what your realis­tic goals are. Success may be laying off your employees with one month's severance. But that's not success in the grandiose scheme of things. True success comes when you realize all your goals," Kraska concluded. 

Opening round of NAFTA 
Execs agree talks is said to go smoothly 
child-care is 

WASHINGTON (AP)-Nego­over a 2,000-page document 
• 

tiators from the United States, known as the North American 
expens1veCanada and Mexico expressed Free Trade Agreement. It would satisfaction Thursday with their create the world's largest free 
WASHINGTON (AP)opening round of talks aimed at trade zone by removing tariffs Representatives of corporatedrafting side agreements to go and other barriers to trade 

America sided Thursday with along with a continent-wide among the three nations over 
.working parents. who sayfree trade pact. the next 15 years. 
quality child care is expensive,However, they said that no However, President Clinton 
hard to find and especiallysubstantive decisions had been said during the campaign that 
scarce for infants and made during what they de­he would not sign the document 
toddlers. scribed as two days of ex­until side letters had been 
The Committee for ploratory talks covering the negotiated providing extra 
Economic Development,range of issues to be dealt with. protections for worker rights, 
representing corporate

And they indicated that dis­the environment and sudden 
executives and universityagreements did exist, even over increases of imports. 
presidents, said inferior daysuch a basic question as how While the Mexicans and 
care undermines the pro­many side agreements would be Canadians are willing to discuss 
ductivity of today's workingnegotiated. side deals on worker rights and 
parents and jeopardizesThe discussions Wednesday the environment, Weekes, 
tomorrow's work force. · and Thursday involved Rufus Canada's negotiator, told re­
"Poor-quality care in these Yerxa, representing the Clinton porters that both countries . earliest years can hamperadministration, and John questioned the need for a side 
what and how well children Weekes, heading up the Cana­agreement dealing with import 
learn, their readiness for dian team, and Herminio surges. 
formal schooling, and their Blanco, the head of the Mexican "We are talking about side 
future success in school, at delegation. deals in the area of the envi­
work, and as citizens," the The Bush administration ronment and labor. That is 
group said in a report.completed negotiations last Au­where we are putting our em­gust with Mexico and Canada phasis," Weekes said. 
Johnson & Johnson vice president Robert Campbell 
said the report "shows how





Clinton's economic plan closer to passing 
child care fits into the development of our human WASHINGTON (AP) -The community development grants, crease taxes in certain areas is from Clinton at 10:20 p.m. 
resoilrcesas much as prenatal House moved Thursday to close small business loans and other a president with courage who Wednesday. "I just listened." 
care for mothers, quality the book on Reaganomics and job-creating projects. The deserves to be followed." Montgomery and other con­
education for students, and embrace President Clinton's administration says the Republicans warned that servatives were most troubled 
training fi>r workers." economic prescription for new measure would create 219,000 Clinton's priorities were wrong­by the jobs package, which they 
The report said child care spending to create jobs coupled jobs this year and more later. headed. complained would add to 
sho~ld help. children develop, with long-term budget cuts and True to their word, top "They think a large federal budget shortfalls that are al­
be convenient and affordable; tax increases to whittle the Democrats showed they could government is the answer,n said ready historically high. But they 
and child-care workers need deficit. hold their rank-and-file to­Rep. John Kasich, R-Ohio. "We seemed all but ready to concede 
better wages and training. "It is clear that the time has gether. On a tally 295 to 135, believe empowering the that the plan would go through. 
Wages that average $11,500 come to make a fundamental the House killed a GOP budget individual and getting govern­"The president's made quite a 
annually for preschool change in policy and direction, n that would have cut spending ment off individuals' backs is few calls" to round up votes, 
teachers in child-care centers Clinton told Treasury employees by $429 billion over the next the answer.n said Rep. Charles Stenholm, D­
result in high turnoyer, as he headed a last-minute five years -and dropped all of But outnumbered and with no Texas, a leader of the conser­
"compromising the child.,. campaign to solidify support Clinton's tax increases. White House to protect them for vatives. Asked if the calls were 
caregiver relationship and and make his victory an The Democratic measures the first time in 12 years, their effective, he said, "Yeah." 
r~ducing the reliability of imposing one. flew in the face of Republican efforts were doomed from the Just to be sure, Democratic 
services for parents," the re­With an 80-vote numerical orthodoxy that has long called start. Taking no chances, leaders were piecing together 
port said. advantage in their pockets, for tax cuts, reductions in social Democrats even limited the an amendment trimming the Democratic leaders predicted spending programs and a number of amendments GOP jobs package by about $10 mil­
The report said quality care that in a long day of debate, strong defense budget. That lawmakers could offer, a rou­lion. Its goal was to remove 
for children 3 to 5 in a day­they would steamroll Republi­approach prevailed when tine tactic that nonetheless in­projects that Republicans had 
care center costs from $4,900 cans and approve two of Clin­Ronald Reagan swept into the furiated Republicans. chided as ludicrous wastes of 
to $8,300 per year. ton's economic recovery mea­White House in 1981. But both "We were royally zapped," money: $3.2 million to produce 
Parents who earn less than sures. he and successor George Bush Rep. Robert Walker, R-Pa., atlases about fish populations 
$15.000 a year spend nearly One would lay the blueprint failed to deliver on their moaned in an interview. and $800,000 to get America's 
one-fourth of their income on for future bills trimming the promises of a balanced budget. Behind the scenes, Clinton whitewater canoeing team 
child care while families earn­deficit by $510 billion over the "We've had no-pain presi­was at work. In phone calls and ready for the 1996 Olympics. ing more than $50,000 spend next five years, to be split dencies for 12 years, and now letters to waivering Democrats, The Democratic aim was 6 percent or less on child-care evenly between spending cuts the pain facing the American he urged them to support his clear: win big and convince the services, the report said. and tax increases. mainly on people is greater than anything plan. public that gridlock is over. More than a third of all chil­the rich and corporations. It we could have possibly imag­"He had all the details about "The goal here is to have the dren under age 6 -approxi­resembled a plan the Senate ined," said Rep. John Bryant, D­jobs, all the facts and figures," fewest number of Democrats mately 8 million -are outside was also debating. Texas. "A president that's said Rep. G.V. Sonny Mont­defect," Rep. Philip Sharp, D­their own homes in day-care 
The other would pump $16.3 willing to ... say we need to gomery, D-Miss., a conservative Ind., one of the party's vote centers or in family child-care billion in new spending into make cuts and we need to in-who said he got a call at home counters, said in an interview. homes. 


Viewpoint 
page 10 
The Observer NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 1993-94 General Board Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy News Editor •........ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Staph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, laHars and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members oi the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leHers is encouraged. Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631 -6900/8840Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
North Americans love hyper­bole. We read in Time about "The Person of the Year," ad­vertise "The Sale of the Cen­tury," and debate about "The Athlete of the Century," to mention just a few mundane examples. Whether or not the latest East Coast storm really is the "Storm of the Century," it is clear to everyone that in its aftermath, nexibility and gen­uine concern are important guidelines for decision-making. Perhaps. 
Reading the Observer on Tuesday, yet another hyperbole came to mind: "Administrative Concern of the Century." This is an impressive accomplishment, even for Notre Dame. According to the Assistant Vice President of the "misnamed" Office of Student Affairs, William Kirk, the University "will not grant official excused absences to those students who could not overeome the bad weather and 
DOONESBURY 
dangerous highways." 
Nonetheless, we are assured that the esteemed office does care for the affairs of its students, or presumably it would not be so named: "However, Kirk explained that students should not risk injury in order to avoid an unexcused absence. 'The most important thing is to get here safely,' he said. He told students who called his office that they should not 'endanger themselves' get­ting back to South Bend." I am sure everyone appreciates this sentiment. 
When I read of this adminis­trative concern, I thought im­mediately of James 2:14 -17: "What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to him, 'Go, I wish you well; keep warm and be well fed,' but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is it? In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead." 
Does this passage indicate how we treat our Notre Dame brothers and sisters? I do know that I treat my children and take care of their needs as best I can. I am not casting the first stone at the administration (in fact, I am not sure I could count as high as the total is now). 
I am the first to acknowledge that my own actions are not always consistent with what I profess, yet they are, I hope, rarely as much out of sync as our administration's most re­cent example. I may not know the definition of bad adminis­trative action, but I know it when I see it. 
Marvin Bolt Graduate student March 17, 1993 

I 
(3!)1355 50... 
I 
IAIEU, 5e&? YOU 
WEll£ JIJ5T HAV//116 
A 840 lA'I Y85Tl3R­f}/f'l. &V6RY80f7'1 HAS A ~0 VAY SOM8­
TIMI35-&V13N VAO[)'f! 
\ 

ACTUALJ..:t, {)A[)[)Y HA5 J!:M IU 7H/3 TIME! IN fACT, f}.AI?fJY HA~'T HAJJA GCJO() L/AY 
5/NC& Ht UET HIS JOB A 
Y&AR AGO.I 7AJ..I<. '-__,.-;/':""""~ A90IJTBIJING 
Dear Editor: 

Much debate has been going on concerning President Clin­ton's changes in the American government. One of the com­mon complaints is that his plan will punish those who have worked hard for their money, the upper class, by raising their taxes. For twelve years, the upper class has been protected and their excess of wealth pre­served. They are the country's privileged. 
Personally, I see nothing wrong with the proposed tax increases. The policy in the past makes it seem that only those on the top work to get where they are, and to those on the bottom, it is their tough luck. Luck is not even the right word. Rather, people would like to believe that it is a lack of effort that leaves those on the bottom where they are. 
What a nice generalization 
Student speaks solidly on substandard food service 
Dear Editor: rigible and irremediable. Plus 
The triad of nutritional di­the food here sucks. etary excuses that the parsi­monious food service amalga­Mike Rood mation chooses to refer to as Flanner Hall balanced meals are both incor-March 16, 1993 
Whether rich or poor, we are all one in Christ 
those of the upper class have made to justify the preservation of their wealth. I know a lot of people in the middle and even the lower class who have worked as hard, if not harder, than most people for what they have. How much money one has is not a reflection upon how hard one has worked. I daresay it has a lot more to do with values and luck. 
I am surprised that more people on the SMC/ND cam­puses do not agree with me. After all, we are studying at two fine Catholic institutions. Being Catholic, we should know that Christ came to teach love and unity. We are all one in Christ, rich and poor. And with that, the message is clear. 
Andrea R. Cox Ireland Program March 4, 1993 


GARRY TRUDEAU 
Y&5,IAM! IMJU5TA 
5PI3CJ<OF 
DIR.T.' 
I 

"You have deliberately tasted two worms and you can leave Oxford by the next town drain." 
W.A. Spooner 
(Attributed) 

Spoonerize. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 
-~-~-------~~­
Viewpoint
Friday, March 19, 1993 page 11 
NO must retain its 'excellence and character' 
The U.S. News and World Report Magazine has just re­leased its spring ratings for graduate schools. Last fall, Notre Dame, for the third con­secutive year, did not place in the publication's top 25 under­graduate schools. Since a friend of mine who serves at St. Matthew's Cathedral during the same mass at which 1 lecture is a reporter for U.S. News, I put the Catholic strong-arm on him. 
I said, "Hey, Thorn (I pro­nounce the 'H' so that it sounds like I lisp and so that I can an­noy him), what's the deal? Why does your mag rag on ND?" 
Thorn, a Yale graduate, in his proper, low-key way replied, "I'll ask Bob Morris, the re­porter who worked on that." Later, he suggested that I call Bob directly. 
When I finally got around to calling Bob, he did not remem­ber who I was and asked, "Tom who?" 
What I expected to be a long, tedious phone conversation ac­tually evolved into an interest­ing and informative session. I began the conversation by ask­ing how the magazine rated the undergraduate schools. U.S. News determines its list of the best colleges and universities on the basis of five attributes: reputation, student selectivity, 
faculty resources, financial resources, and student satisfaction. 
It was my impression from the Observer's September 22, 1992 front-page article that ND was unfairly compared in the financial resources category to schools with medical facilities. After all, Dennis Moore, ND di­rector of public relations, was quoted as saying that almost all the ranked universities have medical schools which ac­counted for much of the spending, so "it will be difficult for us to be ranked in the top 25." So I asked Bob for our ranking breakdown. 
I was shocked to learn that of 204 schools considered, Notre Dame ranked 57th in financial resources. What further shocked me was that our aca­demic reputation (measured by fellow college presidents, provosts, deans of academic af­fairs. and admission directors) ranked only 36th. We were tied with Emory. 
The reporter explained to me that only two schools in the top 25 had lower than a 26th repu­tation rating. He had no expla­nation for how others rated Notre Dame. but he did dispute Dennis Moore's contention that medical schools play a signifi­cant role in rating a school's fi-
Gary Caruso 

Capital Comments 
nancial resources. 
One-third of the schools in the top twenty five have no medical facilities or such small ones (Darthmouth and Brown) that they do not greatly impact their ratings. So the question remained, why wasn't Notre Dame among that third? 
I was pleased to hear that ND ranked 4th in student satisfac­tion and 18th in student selec­tivity. These ratings were com­parable, or even better than some of the top ten schools. However, faculty resources rated 25th, which was well be­low any of the top ten. 
So I pressed Bob Morris a bit more about how medical schools helped other schools. He went through the history of the magazine's evaluation pro­cess since ND made the top 25 three years ago. In 1989, the last year ND made the top 25, 
U.S. News counted the endow­ment income per student as part of its criteria. Since then, it changed its compilation to focus on the amount of money spent on the student (per student). This includes libraries, com­puters, data bases, and other such institutional support. 
He pointed out that U.S. News de-emphasizes research in its rating methodology. Conse­quently, schools that emphasize research will rank lower in this undergraduate rating system. 
U.S. News attempts to focus on students and the resources made available to them at each institution. 
Bob then mentioned some of the schools that did not have medical schools (Princeton, Cal Tech, MIT, Carnegie-Mellon, and Cal Berkeley) and asked me, "Does Notre Dame keep pace with these schools when spending on student services, institutional support, and in­structional expenditures?" 
I got the impression that even with the lag in spending per student, the reputation category hurt Notre Dame the most. A few more kind words and better scores in the reputation category could have moved ND into the top twenty-five. More spending on students could have moved ND into the top teens, maybe the low teens. Bob suggested that ND look inside the university and evaluate how it compares with the non­medical school competition. 
Being from the Pittsburgh area, I know firsthand about the technological strides 

Carnegie-Mellon makes with computers. I wonder how much, if any, the emphasis on research detracts from the Notre Dame undergraduate program. Does ND pass over a potential Frank O'Malley for someone who can publish to his little heart's content? Does ND place a higher priority on resources for research facilities and delay undergraduate im­provements? The answers are within the university, and hopefully, will be addressed by the next evaluation in the fall. 
What bothers me most is that Vanderbilt placed 25th with an 
86.8 rating. Notre Dame ranked 26th with an 86.2 rating. So close, yet so far away. Imagine how a few resource priority changes and a better reputation among our academic peers could drastically catapult ND up the list. 
Our beloved university deserves to maintain its undergraduate excellence and character. Will anyone dare to lead the campaign? 
Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of the University ofNotre Dame and now works in Washington, 
D. C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the United States House ofRepresentatives. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Parietals only prevent freedom 
Dear Editor: 
Just last Wednesday night I was studying for a chemistry test in my girl friend's dorm room. As we all know, chemistry is no joke of a subject and requires many hours of study to do well. One of the best ways to study is in groups, obviously with both girls and guys. However, around 11:45 I knew it was almost time to leave because parietals would soon be in effect. Being in her room past twelve on a weekday night is strictly forbidden . .So, like countless other nights at midnight, I began my search for another place to study. 
This is not an easy task on the Notre Dame campus. Only the library and Lafortune Student Center are open late, and they usually prove to be more of a hindrance than a help. The study rooms in the library are usually taken and in most other places talking is not permitted. For study groups, the library is not a viable option. 
On the contrary, the student center falls on the other extreme of the scale. It is noisy and full of distractions. If you are not getting something to eat, you are probably conversing with another person in the same predicament. In addition, it is a rare night when someone does not have the juke box playing at full blast to help you concentrate. 
The location of the university is not exactly prime and as a result confines most of us to the campus. However, this confinement fosters a real sense of community and allows many friendships to grow strong. 
Many weekend nights are spent in each others rooms doing everything from just talking to having parties. There is nothing more frustrating than having to call it a night because of some ultra-conservative rule the university is enforcing. It strikes me as ridiculous that at this point in my life I still can not make these private decisions. 
Another reason parietals exist is so that at a certain time people are guaranteed peace and quiet. It is understandable that if parietals were absent, conflicts would arise between roommates. But that is when our maturity and our ability to resolve problems properly is tested. If t~re is an impasse that can not be settled, then the university should intervene. 
We should accustom ourselves to the real world. In the real world we are responsible for our own problems and nothing is going to be there to govern our lives and settle our problems. Notre Dame shelters and protects us too much from the outside. This is not proper preparation for the change we will experience in a few short years. 
Aside from the academic and social dilemma parietals impose, the university infringes upon the accepted belief that we are adults. We were not only invited to this university based on our academic excellence, but on our character and maturity. Granted, not every student here is fully mature. Still, it is not right to enforce parietals on this trusting mature community because of a few bad apples. · 
If the university can trust its students with the responsibility of having an academic honor code, why not employ something similar regarding parietals? Why is trust only extended into the classroom and not into the social atmosphere? 
University officials would also argue that parietals help enforce their "no premarital sex" clause in du Lac. The fact is, if two people are going to engage in intercourse, parietals are not going to stop them. The converse of that statement is also true. A couple will make a highly personal decision independent of rules. However, the university does not trust our judgment. They refuse to accept that we are adults who can and will make our own decisions. According to the university, the "character and maturity" we apparently possess does not apply when making moral and social decisions. 
r Furthermore, not every student at Notre Dame is Catholic. I think it is unfair that Catholic beliefs should be forced upon people who just want to attend an excellent academic institution. Catholicism consists of a set of beliefs, not laws imposed by society. Why should one be required to follow a set of religious guidelines to receive a superior education? Notre Dame attracts people from different racial, ethnic, cultural and religious backgrounds. Why should they be subjected to petty rules like parietals? 
Upon reflection, parietals are really an insult to our integrity and maturity. Notre Dame students are regarded with the highest esteem by outsiders. If one of these outsidets were to visit and get a taste of the actual sheltered life here, his perception of this community may change. Would a visitor think we were so immature that our freedom had to be limited? 
Hopefully, in the upcoming year when du Lac is apparently revised, the "lawmakers" will take into account the inconvenience parietals impose, and more importantly what they really signify to others not affiliated with this university. 
Kieran Mulryan Grace Hall March 17, 1993 

South Dining Hall to be closed for Sarin Society 
Dear Editor, 
This weekend, March 19 and 20, the University will host ap­proximately 900 members of The Edward Frederick Sorin Society, a financial support group for Notre Dame. Made up of alumni, parents and friends this generous crowd gathers once every other year for what we call "A Weekend of Recognition", an effort on the University's part to say thank you for all that they do for Notre Dame. 
During the weekend there will be several events, a couple of which will, unfortunately, in­convenience your usual sched­ule. In particular, on Friday evening we will hold our wel­coming event, a dinner, in the South Dining Hall. As a result, those who normally eat in the South Dining Hall are asked to use the North Dining Hall for Friday dinner. 

On behalf of the Sorin Society, please accept our sincere gratitude for your great coop­eration. In no way do we want to cause any inconvenience but due to some unavoidable scheduling conflicts there is no alternative. Special thanks too, to all the students participating in the weekend -the event simply would not occur without you. 
Daniel G. Reagan '76 Executive Director, Sorin Society March 15, 1993 

Crucial steps for the Church 
Dear Editor, 
The future role of women in the Catholic church is an im­portant issue for young adults. We are a group of female and male students who represent various interests regarding this issue. However, what brought us together is a shared concern about the position of women in the Church, and especially the exclusion of women from the priesthood. 
During Christmas break, each of us and many others interviewed archbishops, auxil­iary bishops or vicars about this same issue. Our interviews with the Church hierarchy gave us both negative and positive responses. 
We believe that the voice of young adults can provide a powerful change, a change that will embrace all participants in the liturgy. After reading sev­eral recent articles regarding the role of women in the Church, we were especially struck by Bishop P. Francis Murphy's article, "Let's Start Over." 
From this article and from 

our own involvement in the li­turgy, we believe that the community aspect of the mass is very important. Dorm masses provide a wonderful atmosphere for reflection and prayer-the presence of friends, classmates and room­mates invokes a kind of support and understanding. 
In this way, we see the inclu­sion of all people in the li­turgy-women and men-as a crucial step for the Catholic Church. Bishop Murphy advo­cates the full participation of women in the life of the Catholic church. We encourage the members of the ND/SMC community to attend his lecture on Monday, March 22 at 7:30 
p.m. at DeBartolo Hall. 
Patrick Birge Maura Carroll Dana Dillon Jenny Galvin Anne LaFleur Emily Malcoun Sue Petti Mark Ross Maren Schulte Amy Stoeckl March 18, 1993 


MUSIC 
MUSIC 

Llbor Dudas, Harpsichord Concert, 4 p:m~.; ffl1iq~tW9lf§ /. Auditorium, admission free, Chorovaya Akademla, cappeila 
p.m., WastJington Halt, $7. . 
EVENTS 
MUSIC 
EVENTS 

Aviation Show, noon to 5 p.m., NorthVHlaii)el\l1;:tll\ "Signs of Spring," nature · Nature Center, Potato Creek South Bend Record and CO 10 a.m. to$ p.m.. South BendHouo~WinO.;;'{\'•;: .. :.:./' 
CU$hlng Auditorium ·.· ·. Honeymoon In Vegas, Friday an)~ §;A!tlte·~Yi ~UI ·'\ 
and 10:3.0 p.m. ·· 
Snlte · 

Univ. ParkEast 
Amos and Andrew, 7 and 9 p.m. Best of the "Be$t 2, 7:15 and 9;15 p.tl)/ Mad Dog &: Glory, 7:45 and 9:50 p~m~ A Few Good Men, 9:30 p.m. 
Univ. Park West A Far Off Place, 7 and 9 p.m.Aladdin, 7:15p.m. ·. Scent of a Woman. 9:15p.m. Sommersby, 9:45 p.m. 
Music Showcase 
rocks 
Stepan 
By JIM VOGL Accent Writer 
Notre Dame's Stepan Center will be rocking to the tunes of The Freddy Jones Band, the Oliver Syndrome, Saint James & the Profit$ and the Notre Dame band Dysfuncktion on Sunday beginning at 4 p.m in the first annual Notre Dame Music Showcase. Tickets are $7 for students and $10 for the general public. 
Who: The Freddy Jones Band, the Oliver Syndrome, Saint James & the Profit$ and the Notre Dame band Dysfuncktion. 
What: Notre Dame Music Showcase. When: Sunday starting at 4 p.m. Where: Notre Dame's Stepan Center. How Much: $7 for students and $10 for the general public. 
Before taking stage at the Stepan Center this Sunday, the Freddy Jones Band would like to clarify three common mis­conceptions: 
1. Their image 
In their formative years, with a huge, gawdy tie-dye banner as their backdrop, The Freddy Jones Band catered to hungry "dead heads", performing cover songs of the Grateful Dead and other select classic rock artists. 
But today, FJB has weaved their own pattern of Southern Rock and "Classic" Blues. Aside from an occasional Rock, Reggae or R&B cover, their concert repertoire is based around 20 originals. 

Oliver Syndrome will play at Stepan Center Sunday at 4 p.m. Tickets 
"We'd much prefer to showcase loyal fan base also draws our own stuff," says lead guitarist followers of new college and vocalist Wayne Healy. "But for which they have opened­we'll occasionally play some old Spin Doctors, Blues Traw\ler, blues tunes in a casual club Subdudes, Widespread P setting." and Phish. 
Like many young bands, they The Freddy Jones Band's have to constantly fight for titled debut CD on Poor identity by establishing their own Hecords -featuring all 10 ori original hits. While some in tracks-hit regional record attendance may cry for a Dead .June 13. 1992 like a b tune or an Eric Clapton hit, The ofT the shores of Lake Freddy Jones Band is confident Within two weeks, eager their own songs will win over the bought up the first 2,000 crowd, time and time again. and the second pressing is al 
The band's cult following has gonr~. too. snowballed, as they continually 2. Their origins form sellout crowds of over 900 As favorite in the Chicago people in the competitive Chicago scene, the band's foun Club scene, packing recent members Marty Lloyd and venues such as the Vic Theater llealy grew up as friends in and Cubby Bear. native Windy City sub 
FJB's crowd pleasing favorites However, they formed the such as "In a Daydream," "Texas in South Bend while atten Skies," and "And She Cried" Holy Cross .Junior College. emanate a powerful dixie drawl "Marty and I played reminiscent of The Allman when we were younger, Brothers or Marshall Tucker. school age, in Michigan Healy also considers himself a Grand Beach and disciple of Eric Clapton, Little Beach-but then we didn't p Feat, and Mark Knopller (of the gether for four or five ye Dire Straits). explained Healy. "When we 
And despite their vintage wound up at Holy Cross in backbone, the band's fiercely (at age 22), we decided to 
The Freddv Jones Band. oerformina in the Music Showcase. has broken from the dead-head oriains and 
• 

r 
a t
• nmen
I 

ND students model new styles in Breen­P~illips first annual fashion show 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Writer 
Men and women of Notre 
Dame will walk out in style-for 
the frrst time ever. 
Breen-Phillips (BP} is hosting their first annual fashion show this Saturday at 2 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom thanks to one Megan Duffy. 
"I was very surprised that none of the dorms sponsored a fashion show," said Duffy.-"I though it would an opportune time to begin one and hopefully make it a tradition." 
Duffy took the initiative to in­vestigate the project on her own. 
''I'm not on hall council or anything, but I just went to my rectress and got the go ahead," she explained. 
After she received an okay,
together." two returned to Chicago owing year and recruited 
onaccorsi, Healy's friend grammar school, to play Drummer Simon Horrocks 
on in '91, and Jim's older er Hob returned from rnia where he'd been g guitar with a jazz/blues 
to complete the puzzle. 
band has returned to Bend for frequent gigs at te Shenanigans, Kamms and other area locations. 
ir name you may realize, Freddy is not the name of a band 
r. Nor is Freddy Jones a ary Chicago streetcorner musician. Instead, they ved the name from an re underground comic 
really didn't want to give nd a silly name," Healy "although this one was d by a big fat comic strip 
named Freddy." 
that they have cleared the Freddy Jones Band will with their unique brand of & roll vibrations. · 
Duffy found herself spending much of her time walking and talking. 
"I went to the mall (University Park} and basically talked to ev­ery store manager," Duffy said. "A lot of stores could not participate because of restrictions.Other stores said that it was a bad time for them." 
Despite these complications, Duffy was able to convince stores such as Ann Taylor, Casual Corner, Structures, J. Riggins and Chico's to be a part. 
The fashion show will include both male and female Notre Dame students. 
Model Michael DuBay admitted that he "kinda promised," someone he would participate. 
"My sister lives in BP," he confessed. "I couldn't very well say no." But DuBay goes into the project with a good heart. 
"Actually I'm really embarrassed about the whole thing," DuBay said. "But it is a for a good cause so it doesn't really matter." 
The cause which DuBay is referring to is the American Diabetes Association. All proceeds from the fashion show will be handed over to the organization. 
Donna Swope, regional director of the diabetes association, was pleased when Duffy announced the charity to which the proceeds would be donated. 
"Megan came to me and told me she wanted to give the money to us," said Swope. "We sat down and talk for a long time and I was able to help her develop her ideas further." 
The highlight of the evening will not be the studly NO men or stunning NO women, but rather when Swope receives the check at the end of the night from Duffy and BP. 
Swope explained that the funds will be used for research, education and a project called "Camp John Warvell," named after the founder of the camp. Through this camp, children with diabetes are able to enjoy activities like sailing and hiking without worrying too much about their illness. 
"Everything is supplied .at the 
camp," said Swope. "The kids 
don't pack any of their 
medication. it's all waiting for 
them at the camp, as well as a 
individualized nutrition plan." 
Swope said that much of the 
proceeds from the fashion show 
will help subsidized the cost of 
the camp for the children. 
"We hope people will come 
out and support us," said Duffy. 
"A lot of time and effort has 
been placed into this show. The 
models have been great and 

z:..____J......._:1~L-•== they're going to make the show a success." 
Facts about Diabetes 
Diabetes is the leading cause of heart disease, kidney complications, blindness and trauma amputations, according to Donna Swope, the northwest regional director of American Diabetes Association. 
"The actual causes are still pretty much unknown," ex­plained Swope, "but there have been significant links to genetics, obesity and lack o nutrition and exercise." 
There number of people who possess diabetes is tragically in the millions. Hundreds of thou­sands of these people ranging from age 15-25-a category in which college students fall. Yet, less than one half o American teenagers and young adults see a physicians on a yearly bas~. And less than one forth inquire about diabetes during these check~ups. 
"College kids really aren't concerned," said Swope. "It's not an illness spread widely throughout the population o college students, but the numbers are rather surprising." 
Symptoms of diabetes are: 
• 
constantly being thirsty; 

• 
increased urination 

• 
weakness and dizzy spells 

• 
dramatic weight loss • bl11rred vision 


If you are at risk or have experienced the above symptoms for a significant amount of time, contact a physician. The only prevention is knowing before it's too late. 
Information compiled by Kenya Johnson with the help of Donna Swope, nurses at the Notre Dame infirmary and at Memorial Hospital of South Bend. 
Sing it loud 

-
·-­

!-'"'-------------------------------------------­
-~-----------------­
Page 14 Friday, March 19, 1993 
Right-to-Life struggle causes bloodshed 
-
-· 
Yesterday, at lunch in the 
University Club, Dennis, a fac­
ulty bright light who reminds 
me of March, which comes in 
like a lion and goes out like a 
lamb, visited my table. Refer­
ring to the recent shooting of 
the abortion doctor in Florida 
by a namesake of mine, I said: 
"I see by the papers that the 
Right-to-life struggle has finally 
led to the shedding of blood." 
Dennis's reply was: "You'd do all of us a favor if you didn't mention it in the Observer for at least a month." Dennis's charm is such that he made me laugh at myself as a Johnny­one-note, trigger-happy over warning Catholics that their zealotry is turning their defense of the unborn into the Catholic Vietnam. But now that bishops are making a name for themselves by getting arrested as roadblocks obstructing the sidewalks outside abortion clin­ics, I feel entitled as a priest of no importance to call the plays as I see them, as a way of re­minding the zealots that they're an embarrassment to Chris­tianity. 
I am more than ready to keep the peace as Dennis counselled. But then this morning, after seeing Tuesday's New York Times, it was, "Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more," though hopefully only for a one-shot deal. Have you read the full­page ad sponsored by Planned Parenthood, and headlined: "They shot him in the back because he stood up for our right to choose"? 
•Fares are roundtrip from Chicago. Taxes included and restrictions apply. Call v-10rldwide destinations, both ooe Wi!'f roundtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearban St., 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bone.(y 9od 

The bill of complaints in the ad begins: "When an anti­choice extremist shot Dr. David Gunn three times in the back on March 10, he didn't act alone. The murder was a predictable result of an escalating campaign of terror and violence against American women and their right to choose abortion. Dr. Gunn was killed by a member of Rescue America, whose president told the press that 'quite a number of babies will be saved,' and issued a plea for donations for the murderer's family. 
"For years now, reproductive health clinics have been hit with death threats, arson, bombings, and drive-by shootings. A twelve week "boot camp" in Florida is training anti-choice terrorists for a sus­tained assault against clinics later this year. Fanatic mem­bers of Operation Rescue-as part of their "No Place to Hide" campaign-stalk physicians at home and threaten their fami­lies. "We've found the weak link and it's the doctors," says Randall Terry, founder of Op­eration Rescue ... " 
Here, finally, is the death some of us have been predict­ing, and here are gunshots that can be heard round the world, as when Old Glory, flying over 
He's having the day 
Gro~~5~~~5 
Sat-Sun 2:00, 4:45. 7:15. 9:45 

~!II~P!! 
of war••• JPG·Ill 
Daily 5:00, 7::l0, 10:00 Sat-Sun 2:15, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
Fort Lincoln was inaugurated. If you dare to make a hero out of this perpetrator of violence-instead of leaving him to twist slowly in the wind, whether you think he deserves it or not-then you could be encouraging other fa­natics to make pseudo-martyrs out of themselves, with acts of violence that could coalesce into a civil war. 
Historians writing of the war between the States have said that in the aftermath of Lin­coln's election, leaders in the North and South kept busy, not with pouring oil on troubled waters, but with agitating them, to precipitate a crisis. The crisis, when it came, was catastrophic: the number of the war dead exceeded 600,000, which is a high price to pay for an unwillingness to reason to­gether. The rising tide of vio­lence against the death mills seems to reflect the desperation of the terrorists, and this, to me, is what is scary. 
The gunning down of Dr. Gunn makes the Church look once again like a public enemy, at least to outsiders. The Church should be occupying the high ground as the teacher of life. Who else but the Church did the Times ad have in mind when it says: "The anti-choice 
$3.50 
All Shows 
8olora 6 pm 
TEENAGE MUTANT JJ[
NINJA TURTLES 
THE TURTLES ARE BACK•••IN TIME. IPGl 
DAILY 5:00, 7:00, 9;30 . Sat-Sun 12:30, 2:45, 5:00, 7:00, 9:30 
THE GOVERNMENT GAVE HER ACHOICE. DEATH. OR LIFE AS AN ASSASSIN. NOW. THERE'S NO TURNING BACK. 
Daily 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Sat-Sun 1 :45, 4:30, 7:00. 9:30 
I!!J 

Attention Juniors 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 23, 1993 
7:00p.m. 120 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 1 02~ B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
zealots say they oppose abor­
tion. Yet they continue to attack 
proven ways of preventing 
abortion, such as family plan­
ning programs and responsible 
sex education ... "? 

Before going further, let me say that like Winnie the Pooh, "I am a bear of very little brain, and long words bother me." A three-syllable word I do under­stand is loyalty; and as a Catholic, I am loyal, though not blind. If I were a very important person with a reputation to maintain as a saint or a scholar, I might be afraid to take stands that piss off the world; as a nonentity, I'm not afraid to make people mad. When I became a Catholic at the age of nineteen, I gave my heart lock, stock and barrel to the Church, and I chose above all others to be my numero uno; I'm willing to fight the Pope's battles as a foot soldier. 
I'm conservative enough to wonder, though not seriously, if the Pope was right when he condemned Galileo, though not blind enough to believe in some flat-earth theory. I can't re­member reading anywhere -except on a sign at a right-to­life rally-that abortion, though wrong and sinful, is murder. In calling it murder, the zealots are engaging in overkill, and have overloaded the emotional circuits. Now we have them defending the murder of an abortionist as a case of turn­about as fair play. 
I hate the unjust taking of unborn life. If we were to re­pent of this unspeakable crime 
as our national sin, I hate to 
think of the size of the dump 
heap the condoms would make, 
if they were all discarded in the 
same place after use. Unless o 
course, they happened to be 
biodegradable like the pape 

products used for wrappin 
Big-Mac's. 

Clinton has said that abor tions in America should be safe legal, and rare. Let's tak comfort from that word rare a. though it were a campaig promise he intends to keep. I the government can educate u on the evils of smoking, or o the need for condoms as a pro phylaxis against AIDS, then th government should be able t persuade the baby-boomer. and their offspring that it is i nobody's interest to declar open season on the unborn wh will, when their turn comes inherit the earth. 
The President and Hilary, th1 Bishops and other faith figures and the members of Planne Parenthood should be settin up task forces devoted t putting into action a reverenc . for life. Do they need to be tol how? If only the extremist: would bury the hatchet, they'd be half way there. 
If this should happen, maybe Dr. Gunn will not have died in vain. Right-to-lifers from all over may ask: "Who cares about him?" Many Pro-lifers will care deeply about him, now that he's become their martyr. Shouldn't some of the zealots feel guilty for generating the hatred which caused his mur­der? 
r----------------, 
I 

I 232-9299 ! I •
I 

I American Cab Co. I 
I I I I 
I "Frequent Rider Card" I I Ride 10 times and receive $3.00 off 11 111 ride I I "We appreciate your business" I I Call ahead for prearranged pick-up I 
I I 
L----------------~ 
The Office of Muno1ri1ty Student Affau1rs, Muli:i·cultural Executive Council, and. the Lilly Foundaltion present: 
"A Collar in My Pocket" 
(a workshop) 


Jane Elliott Monday, March 22, 1993 Washington Hall.7:00 p.m. 
Jane Elliott is the adapter of"Blue Eyes, Brown Eyes" discrimination exercise and her work has been documemed on ABC's Peabody Award winning "the Eye of the Storm," PBS's Emmy Award winning "Fromline Series," and Florida Public Television's Emmy Award winning "the Eye of the Beholder." She has been a guest on a wide variety of television shows, including "Today," "the Johnny Carson Show," "the Phil Donahue Show," and "the Oprah Winfrey Show." 

---------------------------------------~~------------~---------.------~--------~--------------------~.-----..--~~----~ 
iday, March 19, 1993 The Observer page 15 
MARCH MADNESS 1993 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
lassifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need 1 bdrm apt for summer. 3-5 person furnished house, SEC Another Lenten Friday, and Jim CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. ND Call Nicole at X4935. Syst, wash/dry, Beach V-Ball, Prime more meatless baked ziti! Laboe Grad. Happily married for 4 years. NOTICES Locaton 233-9947. Jim Anxious to adopt newborn infant. Try some fish &chips at Jim Personal meeting welcome. Lawful NG 256-6657 SUBWAY Laboe and proper pregnancy related SUMMER SESSION -Visiting is 24 tomorrow! expenses paid. Couple approved by Needed!! FOR RENT Professors. grad students. Daily meal deals on (but he's 9 sexually) Texas adoption authorities in ntfilm 4-bdrm. home. Use of all utilities. Tuna & Crab subs advance of placement. State reg x3322 Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom $250/mo. Close to Campus. Call supervised adoption procedures. t 287-4227 for details. House now for 93-94 school Paul or Monica 232-2794. And every sunday-Call collect: David & Maureen year 234-1886 Buy 2 feet, get 3rd (512) 452-3416 . 
.................... 
FREEl! THE SENIOR CLASS MASS FOR SUNDAY, 

SENIOR CLASS MASS FOR ······························ FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SA 23 & Ironwood MARCH 21 , HAS BEEN Heading for EUROPE this summer? 
AY SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT CANCELLED. Jet there anytime for only $169 from CH 21, HAS BEEN Staying at ND/SMC for the NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND East Coast, $229 from the Midwest ELLED. SUMMER? IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS PAT's Day 2 has arrived: (when available) with AIRHITCHI 
2773097 Happy Birthday, BRENNAN! I! (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Sub-lease our apartment at I'm set for Miss Saigon and your limes.) AIRHITCH (r) CASTLE POINT! birthday weekend in Chicago! 212-864-2000. 
rtations. Theses, Definite crazyness Pregnant and feeling alone with no Papers CALL 4-4673 TODAY! I -Deb where to tum? We offer confidential Works Typing Service counseling at no cost to you. For MATOLA FOOD PRODUCTS ARE 
406 ······························· FOR SALE more information call Nancy at 232-INDORSED BY THE 
-The Sixth Sense-5843. "IRONMAN TRIATHLON". FOR S TYPING SERVICE 1-656-Car for sale. Have you you ever experienced de INFO CALL "KM CENTER" 291­
PICK-UP/DELIVERY Four bedroom furnished Oakhill '77 Olds 98, V-8. ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing 2964. Condo open for summer rental. Runs Great, new tires, brakes. you turn to? Do you belief in E.S.P? Adoption: Doctor and teacher will Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug Very BIG. Perfect for getting you, Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a make dreams for your baby come @ 614-237-1370 for info. friends, and stuff home for summer. way of life for you? true. Full-time parenting. Best of the ANYONE interested in
ST & FOUND $600 or BO. 289-3865 OR city; summers by the beach; your forming an organization 
Do you think horoscopes and baby rocked to sleep by a cozy concerned with disability three keys on a NIKE key EX-ND STAFFER AND SPOUSE fortune telling are bogus, perhaps fireplace in winter, and by ocean issues should call Kevin at If found please return to DESIRE TO RENT FURNISHED LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT even sacrilegious? waves in summer. Art, music, the 282-2906 lanner or call X1004 APARTMENT FOR SUMMER. YEAR? We're interested in what you think!! best education, endless love. Call 
NON-SMOKERS, REFERENCES. NEED FURNITURE? Call the Accent department of The Franny or Stephen collect. d -Pair of glasses on corner of WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW DR.. WE HAVE: Observer (212)369-2597. ••sENIORs•• & Edison. Call 232-9672. MULBERRY FL 33860 OR CALL BEDS and talk to Kenya at 631-4540. Sniegowski (813)425-4404. COUCHES Sunday, March 21 TABLE ADOPTION: A loving happy home, SENIOR CLASS MASS 
: ID case on Tuesday, March 5CHAIRS All students, faculty and staff financial security, and educational 7:00 Dillon Hall was lost in or near the second ENTERTAINMENT CENTER are invited to play pickup opportunities await your newborn. Celebrant Fr. Hesburgh of the library. If the case or BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES DRESSERS basketball games with guests We can help with your expenses. Refreshments follow 
WANTED 
f its contents have been found, FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. AND A DESK from the Center for the Homeless Please call us collect: David and e call Kelley at 273-2990. 219-291-7153. CALL 273-2810 Friday, March 19th at Stepan Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's Center from 6-Bpm. help each other. ARD!II! Lost set of keys Info -Mark @ 272-8563. C&C C&C C&C C&C C&C en & Stimpy keychain Roomate for next year needed for SANYO 4 SEPARATE Capable & Committed e Spring Break. Call Castle Point apartment. COMPONENT STEREO Student Activities is now hiring WALSH Can Count on x1007. (tuner, amp,EQ, and tape deck) students for the 1993-94 academic Capua & Christopherson Call 273-9644 for more info. $150.00 271-1443 THE HUDDLE year. Positions available as as Co-Presidents Ask for Steve PIZZA COMPANY Building Managers, Sound Techs, C&C C&C C&C C&C C&C HAS Room Monitors, Stepan Managers, LOWERED Office Assisstants, Set Up Crew. 4 BEDRM/3BATHRM SEMI-ALL Information Desk & Games Room SECRET AGENTS MER JOBS FURN. OAKHILL CONDO THEIR Attendants, and more. Stop by 315 LET LOOSE! 3117/93 NO/WATER SPORTS 4 RENT '93-'94 SUM and/or YEAR TICKETS WHOLE PIZZA LaFortune to pick up an 10. Leslie, why are you in bed with TIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS CALL 277-9452 PRICES application. Deadline tor applying is Kim? ONDACK MOUNTAINS Help!!! I desperately need extra CHECK IT OUT!!! Friday, March 19. 9. What do YOU think of doggie LAKE PLACID tickets for graduation! This is my style, Tom? 1-800-786-8373. Newly Remodeled 5br. grandparents' last chance to see 8. Doin' the Hwangkie house for rent one of their grandchildren graduate! BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL NO EXPERIENCE! $500 TO $900 7. Edna: For the 5th time, you need 0,000 babies Close to ND, all appliances. security Call Gabrielle at 4-3023 weekly/potential processing FHA aniD 
system, etc. Needs a joke team to play versus mortgage refunds. Own hours. 1-6. I swear I saw a keg in the KA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT $650/ mth. 232-8256 the campus celebrity team on 501-646-0503 Ext 447.24 hours. window ries. Earn $600+/week in Sunday March 28th 5. Joining a guy in the Morrissey ries or $4000+/month on shower g boats. Free transportation! 2 br. Apts for rent PERSONAL Please submit proposals to the SUB 4. Shhhl 
& Board! Over 8000 totally remodeled with new office in LaFortune no later than PASTA CAFE 3. Say cheese, Ms. Punzo ngs. No experience appliances and lots of space Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Monday, March 22nd. 1636 N. Ironwood 2. S-, look at all the smoke I sary. Male or Female. For truly the best price in town Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Mon.-AII-U-Can Eat Spaghetti $3.95 1. Maglite of Power in the Sheath yment program call 1-206-Call us and compare Services. Box 8038, South Bend, IN BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Wed.-$2.00 off Any Dinner of Wool 155 ext. A5584 232-8256 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. 
lorida St. ends Evansville's hopes 
lANDO. Fla. (AP) -'ififuHnlfh ansville took a calculated risk ~i · 
t Florida State fully antici-'' ted. harlie Ward, taking advan­
e of the Purple Aces' deci­
n to concede him his shot, red 15 points Thursday to p the third-seeded Seminoles 

n 82-70 victory in the first nd of the NCAA Southeast 'ona!. like accepting challenges," two-sport star said after 
ing 6 of 11 shots and key-a strong defensive perfor­nce with four steals. "I just ted to step up my game and Evansville's leading scorer 
ve them wrong." Sascha Hupmann couldn't save rd and Sam Cassell, who the Aces despite 20 points. 18 points, took up the slack round against Kansas State or 
le leading scorer Bob Sura . Tulane. ggled through a subpar "We were going to drop off 
e. Ward averages 7.3 points Ward some and try to jam up game, fifth among Florida Edwards' and Cassell's pene­e starters. tration," said Evansville coach ug Edwards finished with Jim Crews. "Ward really did a 
oints and 12 rebounds and great job of hitting some shots. ney Dobard had 13 points We were gambling he wasn't six blocked shots for going to hit those shots." ida State (23-9), which shut Florida State not only re­n the Purple Aces with re-gained its shooting touch, but less defensive pressure and answered critics who thought it 
anced to Saturday's second might take Evansville (23-7) too 
File Photo 
lightly. 

"We've been inconsistent the last three or four games. This is a new season for us and we just wanted to come out and play hard and play with some intensity," Ward said. "The rest will take care of itself. We have a great opportunity to go a long way." 
The Seminoles, who shot just 19 percent from 3-point range while losing three of its previ­ous four games, made 7 of 13 from that distance Thursday, including 5 of 9 while building a 41-27 halftime lead. 
Florida State broke the game open with an 18-0 run midway through the opening half, then scored the first seven points after halftime. The Seminoles led comfortably until Evansville cut the deficit to 79-70 with a barrage of 3-point shots in the last two minutes. 
"We haven't played well in our last few games, so this was certainly a good start for us," said Florida State coach Pat Kennedy. "This is a tourney of upsets, and we survived our first upset." 
Kansas handles Ball State, 94-72 
ROSEMONT, Ill. (AP)-Kansas' slump is over-if a slump ever existed. 
Led by Rex Walters, who made all six of his 3-point attempts and scored 23 points Thursday, the second-seeded Jayhawks shot 56.3 percent and wore down 15th-seeded Ball State for a 94-72 victory in the NCAA Midwest Regional opener. 
Kansas (26-6), the nation's ninth-ranked team, will meet either BYU or SMU in Satur­day's second round. 
The Jayhawks, 16-0 when shooting better than 50 percent this season, entered the game sixth in the nation at 51.2 per­cent. But they were coming off a 38.8 percent performance in a Big Eight-tournament loss to Kansas State and hadn't hit more than half of their shots in 12 previous games. 
"It was a challenge because 
everybody, the last couple of 
weeks, has been putting us in 
the grave and talking about 
how poorly we've been play­
ing," Kansas coach Roy 
Williams said. "The kids get tired of hearing that, and the coaches get tired of hearing that." 

Jeermal Sylvester and Jamie Mathews scored 18 points each for Ball State (26-8), which was seeking to match its tourney success of 1990 when it upset Oregon State and Louisville before a 2-point loss to eventual champion UNLV. 
The Cardinals actually outshot Kansas in the first half, 60 per­cent to 58 percent. And they trailed only 57-56 with less than 14 1/2 minutes to play. Finally, Kansas' superior ath­leticism and depth -combined with its dead-eye shooting­did Ball State in. 
"Credit has to go Kansas. When you're the second and 15th seeds, it's extremely difficult to have them as mentally sharp as they were," Cardinals coach Dick Hunsaker said. "This is our seventh week playing at this level. We've been playing as fine as a Ball State team's ever played. Kansas, conversely, had not bee)l playing extremely well." 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 1993 
1st Round: 2nd Round: Regional Regional March 18-19 March 20-21 Semifinals Finals 

-~)._~~-~!!!.Cky -~~~--­~~1..~.~?.~-~--~~-~!-~ ........... ~ ................................. . ' 
8) Utah 23-6 . L--.. --­
::·::::::;:)-----------~i~;;'~•; ~·;; l ------­
~·i1~!.;,;·~-~~-:~-~~-~~-.._-_.. ~ .................................. l , 
4) Iowa 22-8 , ........................... 
!_~)_~~L_oUI~~-~~--2.~~} ............_................. Charlotte, N.C. 
6) Kansas St. 19-1 o March 25 & 27 ................. ·········· ···· .......~Tulane (55-531
11) Tulane 21-8 · ........... . .........~ ......., 
-~;-~;~~~-~~;: ..;;·~~-.... Florida St. (82-70J .. ---.......... 14)Evansville23-6 \I_________ · ~ -;) w.-;~~;~~-;~-~/ ~~~~~~~·:~:a 
10) """'"'-"-"'--"',, lw_........ , (SST 
1_;;;~:.:~~~~;::}-~~t()n Hall (~!-~!)9)_ New Orleans WEST.·· April3 
1) Michigan 26-4 
!;l) UCLA21-10 

1~l:;~w::n~~:~o~:~~a~·----.............................~~~::~~ ~~~ ................................ 4)Georgi!!Tec1:1,19-10 ~ ..............:...... . 
13) Southern U. 20-9 ~ .................................... · 
Seattle 6) Illinois 18-12 March 26 & 28 
11) L. Beach St. 22-9 ~~-~~~~-?.!~.F.?.~!..?.L. · 3) _Y'anderbilt 26:5. 
l 

Wanderb1lt (~_?.]?.). , 14) Boise St. 21-7 r Salt Lake City 
~ 

----------­
7)Temple17-12 Temple March18&20 
~ ......-............-........-. 
1:; ~r',::~2:~~13 l .............. --r 
~Santa Clara (64-6l 
15)Santa Clara 18-11 1 

National Championship April5 
· . CHAMPION 
.... ·-········---------------·-----------j 

Regional Regional 2nd Round: 1st Round: Finals Semifinals March 20-21 March 18-19 
1) North Carolina 28-4 

I'J ,_c___ a.r()l.i.ll..Ci.J~~-~?_.~~---~-~J.::~~~:~--~;~~-~~;~::i:i~~--~ · -----····-8) Rhode Island 18-10~ Rhode Island?4-6fj
l 
Winston-Salem, N.C. ·· · · · , 9) Purdue 18-9 ······ ······· ···· March 18 & 20 
~t:_~_()h.ll'sJ~!)-6.7)_~ -~:;--~l~~:h;~:~~-~~~~~--­
J '-·············"""'""''"""""""""""""" 

............................. , 4) Arkansas 20-8 
A*~D.§~§..(~4:Q4J r;·;·;..~-~;~..~~~~~ ~3-6 
East Rutherford, N.J. 

6) Virginia 19-9 March 26 & 28 ~ ~-;·; ..~~nhattan ;~;~----·· . 
...SM-:a·r-rac-~h-~-1~9~,&!2.V1_-_:_:-1;:::::;::::• 
7) New Mexico St. 25-7 
j (~9)-~;~~~;~~::?2;:;:~:: ..-·
1 

.......................... , ............ ........... ~ 1:; ~::~;~~:.2~:; . 
New Orleans April3 MIDWEST 

1) Indiana 28-3
1......................................(1~;-~~~~;-~t.·;~~---··· ....... 

lndianap~ll~ ..............................{;:._:.;;;:~~~?.~~-_._._._._._·_·· 
----------~ 

March 19 & 21 _~)..9.1<Jahoma St.)~....... 
{---~--·:::=~~---_

St. Louis March 25 & 27 6) Cahfom1a 19-8 
f~~~~~-?.~~!-~..\~~-~B.4 l ~ 11) Loui~iana St. 22~;-0 

, Duke (105-70) j 3).-~~~-~-~~~!......................... Rosemont, Ill. ---,1~) Southem_!ll11101s 22-9 .. 
~ 
March 18 & 20 . 7) Brigham Young 24-8 
.. ·--· . j~vu (BQ-71 L -~ 1 ~: ~""':"-20:'­
l~-~~~~~J~~::.?.~.l--115) Ball St. 2~7 

A lor! The training and analytical skills acquired in physical demands, security, stress and work Do any Notre Dame Math Majors go on for studying mathematics are precisely what many environment. The top five, out of 250 job higher degrees in the mathematical sciences? companies and professional schools look for. classifications, were, in descending order: actuary, computer programmer, computer systems analyst, Certainly. Some of our best students continue in pure Can you be more specific? What kind of jobs or applied mathematics, computing science, statistics mathematician and statistician. All five are in the and with what kind of companies are some of our and other mathematical sciences. mathematical sciences. recent Notre Dame Math Graduates working They've gone to places like Harvard, Princeton, for? I like mathematics, but I'm not sure that it's what Chicago, Oxford, Berkeley and Wisconsin. Many of I want to do for the rest of my life. Would an them teach at colleges and universities across theAmong our recent graduates two very popular kinds of undergraduate degree in mathematics make sense country. Others work at places like Bell Laboratories orjobs have been as actuaries and as computer for me? at government organizations like the National Security programmers or systems analysis. Agency.A few of the insurance companies hiring our graduates It could very well. As I mentioned earlier, a degree in as actuaries are Allstate, Massachusetts Mutual, mathematics represents training in analytical thought What about the programs offered by the MathCIGNA, The Travelers, Prudential, Aetna Life and and quantitative skills that are invaluable in many areas Department?Casualty and Metropolitan. of human endeavor. The Department offers, all in the College of Science, 'a AT&T, Arthur Andersen, DuPont, IBM, GE, Eastman What about Notre Dame Math Graduates? What major in Math with possible concentrations in Life Kodak, Morgan Stanley, NCR, General Motors, and other areas have they gone into? Science, Education, Engineering Science, Social Xerox are a few of the companies where our math Science, Computing.and Business Administration. Agraduates work as programmers or analysts. I'll name a few: medicine, music, dentistry, law, student can also double major in Math and in, say,engineering, meteorology, business (MBA), applied That is an impressive list-but are these desirable Philosophy.physics and theology. These students continued their jobs? studies at places like Northwestern, North Carolina, The Department also offers an Honors Mathematics Stanford, Indiana, Illinois, Yale, Boston College, Major in the College of Science and one in the College The 1988 publication Jobs Rated Almanac rated job University of Pennsylvania and Georgetown. classifications using the criteria of income, outlook, of Arts and Letters. Come to our Open House this Monday, March 22, from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. in Room 226 of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building and find out more about our programs. You may also call the Math Office at 631,7245 to arrange an appointment with our Director of Undergraduate Studies.  



c -~-------~-----~------­
~--~~-~~-----------------..-----­
..... ..... ..... ..... ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ...... 
-~ 

,.,. 0 : . : . : : : :: : : :: : ._ 0 ..... , ,
~ ~ 
,...--.., -s;-. , ••·•••• ••••••.•••...••.. .............. ''(j;C>
~ l\~ . : : . : : ·.. : : : : .·. : : ' ,.,__.,
..... ..... ..... . ...... ..... ..... . ....... 
NCAA RESULTS TRANSACTIONS AL STANDINGS NL STANDINGS 
BASEBALL 
BASKETBALL 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUEAmerican League
National lnvltotlon Tournoment CLEVELAND INDIANS-Optioned National Basketball Association w L w L Pet.
Jerry Pet.
BOSTON CELTICS-Waived Marcus Webb,
First Round Milwaukee
DIPoto and Bill Wertz, pitchers, and Jose 9 3 .750 Cincinnati 9 4 .692 
forward.
Wednesday, Morch 17 Baltimore 9 4 .692 Pittsburgh 9 5 .643
Hernandez, infielder, to Charlotte of the Southern 
Continental Basketball Association
Minnesota 74, Florida 66 New York 11 5 7 4 .636
League and Shawn Bryant, pitcher, to Canton­.666 Montreal
OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Signed Leroy
West Virginia 95, Georgia 84 Minnesota 8 6 .571 San Diego 8 5 .615
Akron of the Eastern League. Sent Ken Ramos and Combs and Chris Sandie, forwards, and Dell
Miami, Ohio 56, Ohio St. 53 Texas 8 7 9 6 .600
Tracy Sanders, outfielders, to Charlotte and Paul .533 Florida 
Demps, guard. 
Rice 77, Wiscor.sin 73 Chicago 8 Philadelphia 7 5 .583
Byrd and Paul Shuley, pitchers, to their minor­8 .500
FOOTBALL
Oklahoma 88, Michigan St. 86 California 6 7 7 6 .538
league camp for reassignment. .462 Los Angeles
National Football League
Southern Cal 90, UNLV 74 Cleveland 6 8 .429 Chicago 6 7 .533
NEW YORK YANKEES-Optioned Mark NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Aarv.o

Thuraday, March 18 Kensas City 6 8 .429 Colorado 7 7 .500
Hutton and Bobby Munoz, pitchers, to Columbus of 
Jones, defensive end. 
Old Dominion 74, Virginia Commonwealth 68 Oakland 6 8 7 7 .500
the International League. .429 San Francisco 
NEW YORK GIANTS-Re-signed Sean
Boston College 87, Niagara 83 Boston 5 9 .357 New York 6 7 .462
SEATTLE MARINERS-Called up Jim 

Landeta, punter, to a four-year contract.
Providence 73, James Madison 61 Detroit 3 tO 6 8 .429
Converse, pitcher, from their minor..Jeague camp. .231 Houston 
MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Mark Ingram,
Clemson 84, Auburn 72 Seattle 3 St. Louis 5 7 .417 Alabama-Birmingham 58, Alabama 56 Toronto 11 Atlanta 5 9 
National League 10 .231
wide receiver, to a three-year contract.
ATLANTA BRAVES-Optioned Jose Oliva, 3 .214 .357 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Signed HardySoUthwest Missouri St. 56, St. Joseph's 34 infielder, and Brian Bark, Pedro Borbon, and Don 
Nickerson, linebacker, three-year
Georgetown 78, Arizona State 66 to a contract. Thursday's Gemea
Elliott, pitchers, to Richmond of the International t>altlmore vs. Philadelphia at
Friday, March 19 Matched the New England Patriots' offer to Tony Montreal 8, Atlanta 2, 6 Innings 
League; Michael Potts, pitcher; Tyler Houston, Clearwater, Fla., 1:05 p.m.
Mayberry, center. Cleveland 3, Boston 2Jackson State (24-8) at Connecticut (15-12), 7:30 
catcher; Hector Roe, infielder; and Troy Hughes, Houston vs. Kansas City at Haines 
p.m. General Florida 5, Houston 0 
outfielder, to Greenville of the Southern League; City, Fla., t :05 p.m.
TOUCHDOWN JACKSONVILLE-Named J. Baltimore 4, Minnesota 3 Houston (21-8) at Texas-Ei Paso (20·12), 9:45p.m. 
Matt Murray, pitcher, to Durham of the Carolina Seattle vs. California at Tempe, Ariz., 
Wayne Weaver managing general partner. 
Pepperdine (22·7) at UC Santa Barbara (18·10), Kansas City 1, Philadelphia 0
League. Sent Mike Hostetler, pitcher, and Chipper 3:05p.m.
10:30 p.m. Canadian Football League Pittsburgh 3, St Louis t
Jones, shortstop, to their minor-league camp for 
Chicago Cubs vs. Milwaukee at reassignment. 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LION5-Signed Sean Cincinnati 5, Detroit 4 Chandler, Mz., 3:05p.m.
Second Round Foudy, defensive back. Chicago White Sox 1, New York 
FLORIDA MARLINS-Optioned Darrell 

San Diego vs. San Francisco atSACRAMENTO GOLD MINER5-Signed Troy Yankees 0, 10 InningsSites and Dates TBA Whitmore, outfielder, to Edmonton of the Pacific Scottsdale, Ariz., 3:05 p.m.
Jackson St. -Connecticut winner vs. SW Missouri Johnson, wide receiver, and Paschall Davis, New York Mets 6, Los Angeles 3, 71
Coast League; Andres Berumen, pitcher; Ramon Los Angeles Dodgers (ss) vs. Toronto
linebacker. nnings
St. (t9-t0) 
Marti~ez, infielder, and Carl Everett, Kerwin Moore at Dunedin, Fla., 7:35 p.m. 
HOCKEY Texas 7, Toronto 6Clemson (17·12) vs. Ala.-Birmingham (18-13) and Jesus Tavarez, outfielders, to High Desert of Colorado vs. Oakland at Phoenix,
Georgetown (17-12) vs. Houston-Texas-EI Paso National Hockey League Oakland vs. Chicago Cubs 
the California League, and Hector Carrasco, 8:05p.m.
w1nner NHL-Suspended Mark Messier, New York San Diego vs. Milwaukee
pitcher, to Kane County of the Midwest League. 
Pittsburgh vs. St. Louis at St.
Miami, Ohio (21-8) vs. Old Dominion (21-7) Rangers center, and Ulf Samueisson, Pittsburgh Seattle vs. San Francisco (n)
Sent Jeffrey Tabaka, catcher, to Edmonton and Petersburg, Fla., t :05 p.m. 
Boston College (17-12) vs. Rice (18·9) Penguins defenseman, for three days without pay Colorado vs. California (n)
Charles Johnson, catcher, and Robert Person, Los Angeles (ss) vs. New York 
West VIrginia (17·11) at Providence (18-11) to minor-league camp for a stick-swinging altercation in a game on March Friday's Games
pitcher, their for Yankees (ss) at Fort lauderdale, 
Pepperdine-UC Sante Barbara winner vs. 5. A~enta vs. Florida at Cocoa, Fla., 1 :05 
reassignment. 
Fla., 1:05 p.m. PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Sent Rich
Southern Cal (17-11) NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Recalled Bobby p.m. 
New York Yankees (ss) vs. Chicago
Oklahoma (20·11) vs. Minnesota (18-10) Holik, center, and Troy Mallette, left wing, from Texas vs. Minnesota at Fort Myers, Utica of the American Hockey League. Fla., 1:05 p.m. 
· Robertson and Tony Menedez, pitchers, to their White Sox at Sarasota, Fla,minor-league camp for reassignment. 
1:05p.m.
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Traded Daniel New York Mets vs. Montreal at WestSAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Placed Dave Cincinnati vs. Detroit at lakeland, Daniel Marois, right wing, to the Boston Bruins for a Palm Beach, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 
Anderson, infielder, on waivers for the purpose of 
~Ia., 1 :05 p.m.
conditional draft choice. Boston vs. Cleveland at Winterhim his unconditional release. 
Haven, Fla., 1:05 p.m. 

NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
loryle 1n!J an 1n!J 
WALES CONFEHENCE I'ASTEII'\ CONFERENCE 
l'alriek Division Atlantic Division
al 7he cSnile YJ(us~um 
w L T Pts GF GA w L Pet. l'illshurgh 43 21 6 92 282 226 New York 44 18 .710
Wniversif_y ofXo!re 7Jame 
\\'ashington 34 28 7 75 277 248 ~nw Jorsey 37 26 .587 ~"''' .lnrSt!y 34 30 6 74 254 248 Boston 35 28 .556 'JY llangnrs 31 28 11 73 264 258 Orlando 29 32 .475 'JY Islanders 33 31 6 72 282 252 Miami 27 34 .443
Yor alla!les ftee 
Philaci~>lphia 26 32 11 63 264 273 l'hiladelphia 20 41 .328 
Adams Division \Vashington 18 43 .295 x-Montrllal 43 23 6 92 293 234 Ct•nlral Division
andopen lo /J:epubhc 
\-(}twhec 39 23 10 88 303 261 Chkago 43 20 .683 .<-Bost.on 40 24 7 87 281 241 ClevPlanrl 41 23 .641 llul'l'alo 33 27 10 76 294 252 Charlulle 34 29 .540
r:Salurda_y, !JI[arch20, 1993 allO:.JO a.m. 
) lartf'orci 21 43 5 47 233 306 Atlanta 32 32 .500 
Ottawa 9 58 4 22 171 337 lnrliana 30 32 .484 
L\.\II'IIELL CONFERENCE lh~t roil 28 34 .452
Jafesfrom around/he world: 
'\orris Division Milwaukee 24 39 .381 w L T Pts GF GA 1\'I'STI'IIN CONFERENCE c:hicago 39 22 10 88 239 194 ~lirlw<>sl Division
Who's who's sf.. 
lll'Lroil 38 27 9 85 314 249 w L Pet. 
Turon to 37 25 9 83 249 206 lluuslun 41 21 .661 
i\·JilliWSOIH 33 31 9 75 245 255 San Antonio 39 22 .639 
Sl l.ouis 33 30 9 75 244 240 1:1ah 37 26 .587 
Tampa Bay 21 45 5 47 210 269 j)(1 1lVPr 25 38 .397 
Sm\'th<• Division Minnesota 15 46 .246 
\·\.'itllt"OliVPr 38 24 9 85 294 227 Dallas 5 57 .081 \-(:t~lgary 36 25 10 82 274 241 l'adlk Division l.us ,\ngldos 33 31 7 73 291 295 x-l'ho~>ni.x 47 14 .770
Rise Before The Fall 
\l'inni(ll'l( 32 34 6 70 267 278 Sealllt) 44 20 .688 
l·:dmont.on 25 40 8 58 211 285 l'ortlanci 36 24 .600 10V2 
San .losH 10 59 2 22 186 347 I.A l.akl'fs 33 29 .532 
x-di nched playoff berth. LA Clippers 31 32 .492 c;olciPn Stale 25 37 .403
This Smnmer 
Sacramento 20 43 .317 x-dinched playoff berth. \\'t•dnesday's Games Now Jersey 114, Atlanta 93
With #1*­
Washington 94, Philadelphia 89f. lnciiana 114, Milwaukee 91 
~l!~~ ~.~'&~ ~~:~~::~gSt. Hours:~~~~~~~~ 1 ~~~-m. 
1 • (219) 255-5274 Sunday 12:30-7 p.m. 
Dallas 102, Orlando 96
New, Healthy Korean Menu! 

lJ tah 1 04, Detroit 80 
Lunch Buffet: Tues-Fri 11:30-2 p.m. $4.95 all you can eat. 
l'hoenix 129, Portland 111
Creighton University 
Open Sunday for Dinner Buffet: 12:30-7 p.m. All you can eat. Includes: braised hot pork, chob 
San Antonio 101, LA Lakers 100 chae, sweet and sour pork, soups, appetizers, salads, fruits and desserts. All for only $8.50. 
Thursday's Games Law Cames Not Included Charlotte 113, Minnesota 85
• Creighton University ranked number one for academic 
New York 115, Cleveland 95 
Boston 105, Denver 101
reputation among Midwestern Colleges and Universities 
"'RESERVOIR DOGS' PICKS UP WHERE 
Seaule 131, Sacramento 111
-US. News and World Report, September 1992. 
Miami at LA Clippers, (n)
~SCORSESE'S 'MEAN STREETS' LEFT OFF!" 
llouston at Golden State. (n)
-.Juu Hobrn11.m rRE\IIERE 

"ONE OF THE DECADE'S LANDMARK MOVIES! 
Rough, mde and riotously funny! Agreat film with brilliant performances!"
Summers at Creighton 
-Russell Smith, DAllAS MORNING NEWS 

• 
Five sessions to choose from 

• 
Day & evening classes 


-Bruce Williamson, PlAYBOY
"****!" 
• More than 200 courses 
"POWERFUL! 
W'ill have audiences riveted
• Small classes 
to their seats!"
• Reduced tuition 
-James Vemiere, BOSTON HERAlD 
Call or write today for more information and 
RESERVOIR 
your copy of the Summer Sessions '93 Bulletin ( 402) 280-2843 or toll free 1-800-637-4279 
DOGS 

Iffin ROTH P(NN iC(MI
CREIGHTON 
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture 

UNIVERSITY 
Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 AND 9:45 
277-7946
CINEMA.,AT 1HE SNITE2500 California Plaza •Omaha, NE 68178 

Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5
Notre Dame Coinmunicatioa add<Theatre 

~----.---------------------------------------------------~-------------­
,,,,,..... 0 t • • ':"-o ~'" oe 

page 18 The Observer Friday, March 19, 1993 
MARCH MADNESS 1993 

Santa Clara stuns Arizona 66-64 

SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -As Chris Mills goes, so go the Ari­zona Wildcats. And when Mills went to the bench with foul trouble against unheralded Santa Clara. the No. 5 Wildcats went right out of the NCAA tournament. 
With Mills on the bench with 
Tennis 

continued from page 22 
however, awaits the Irish at home as Drake visits the Eck Pavilion on Saturday, and Michigan and Kansas State travel to South Bend on Sunday. 
"These matches will not nec­essarily be easy," said Vitale, "but they should be easier than a lot of the other teams we've faced. It's a chance for us to pick up some confidence as well as some wins." · 
Of the opponents Louder­back noted, "Drake will be strong at the top-their 1-2 players will present some diffi­cult matches. Michigan, on the other hand. is more balanced from top to bottom and all the 
four fouls, 15th-seeded Santa Clara overcame a 13-point sec­ond-half deficit Thursday night to shock the second-seeded Wildcats 64-61 in the NCAA West Regional. 
It was the second straight first-round upset loss for Ari­
zona (24-4). which was knocked 
matches will be tough." 

Against Michigan, the Irish may need the help of solid performances from its lower­seeded players. Freshman Holyn Lord hopes to be one of these contributors. Lord, who has played much of the season at the sixth singles spot but has recently seen action at number five, carries a 10-match win­ning streak into Saturday's Drake match. 
"I really don't want to do anything different," Lord said. "I just go out and try to be ag­gressive." 
The University of Notre Dame 
Black Law Students Association 
proudly presents 
The Honorable Alan C. Page '6 7 Minnesota Supreme Court 
Founder, Page Education Foundation Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Minnesota Notre Dame Football All-American Member, National Football League Hall of Fame 
7:30 p.m. Saturday, March 20, 1993 
Room 101, Debartolo Hall 
FREE ADMISSION 
In Celebration of the Twentieth Anniversary of the University of Notre Dame's Black Law Students Association (CO-sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Alumni Assoc.) 
off by 14th-seeded East Tennessee State last year. 
"I don't feel jinxed," said Arizona coach Lute Olson, whose team shot a miserable 25 percent in the second half and 31 percent for the game. "At this point I'm just frustrated that we couldn't play more the way we're capable of playing." 
Pete Eisenrich scored 19 points as the Broncos (19-11) became only the second 15th­seeded team to win a first­round game in NCAA tourna­ment history. Richmond beat second-seeded Syracuse 73-69 in 1991. 
The win was even more im­probable considering the Bron­cos, playing out of the little-no­ticed West Coast Conference, had lost earlier this year by 31 points to Stanford and 24 points to Minnesota. 
"They didn't panic, but I did," Santa Clara coach Dick Davey said of his players. 
Arizona struggled through most of the first half, but seemed to have the game in hand after wrapping a 25-0 run around halftime. 
A weekend full of aggres­siveness is one of Louderback's concerns about the Kansas State match. 
"There's no doubt that after two matches all the players will be getting tired during the Kansas State match," he said. 
But according to Lord, the Irish must look back no further than the Illinois match for a lit­tle inspiration this weekend. 
"If we all play as hard and as well as we did yesterday, we should have a successful week­end." 
~ ~~~~ 

Rhode Island holds off Purdue 
WINSTON-SALEM. N.C. (AP)­Damont Collins's rebound and two free throws with 12.4 seconds left Thursday night sealed Rhode Island's 74-68 victory over No. 22 Purdue in the first round of the NCAA East Regional. 
Carlos Cofield scored 16 of his 22 points in the second half as eighth-seeded Rhode Island (19-10) won its first NCAA tournament game since it ad­vanced to the round of 16 in 1988. 
Big 10 scoring leader Glenn Robinson had 36 points. the most the Rams have given up all season, but he had little help. Robinson scored 18 of Purdue's last 23 points and was the only Boilermaker in double ligures. 
Ninth-seeded Purdue (18-1 0) failed to reach the 20-win mark for the third consecutive season and the fourth time in live years. 
Rhode Island, the top free­throw shooting team in the At­Iantic-1 0 conference, stretched its lead to 71-65 on a pair of foul shots by Mike Brown with 
40.8 seconds remaining before Robinson answered with a 3­pointer to make it 71-68 with 26 seconds to go. 

After the Hams' Andre Samuel missed two free throws, Purdue got the rebound, brought the ball downcourt and called a timeout with 17.6 seeonds left. 
Robinson missed a 3-pointer when play resumed, and Collins got the rebound and was fouled. He made both free throws to make it 73-68. 
After Line Darner missed another 3-point try for the Boil­ermakers, Cofield wrapped up the scoring on a free throw with 
3.7 seeonds to go. 
The Rams broke it open with a run in which they made live field goals, including four 3­pointers. Cofield had seven points in the 19-9 run, which lifted Rhode Island from a 43­42 deficit to a 61-52 lead on a fast-break dunk by Abdul Fox with 5:40 left. 
Happy Belate Birthday, 
Eileen! 
Love, Kath, Sara, Sandra, en and Michele. 

~tu~~nt ~~~f ~urv~J 
sponsoredby rx7J cSiudenl cSenale 
Please take two minutes to fill out the questionnaire to voice your opinions and express your concerns. 
.­
page 19 The Observer Friday, March 19, 1993 
Men's volleyball to face Central Michigan, Illinois 
March 23 I.P.F.W. away March 26-27 Midwestern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association Tournament away April 1 University of Wisconsin 
Milwaukee away April 7 Ball State away April 15-17 College Club Championships TBA April 23-24 M.I.V.A., N.A.I.A. Division 
Championships TBA May 7-8 NCAA Tournament 
Hey Nixy­
Dig This! 
Happy 21st! 
Love Kathy & Carla 
The Observer/ Pat McHugh 

Members of the Irish volleyball team reject a spike from Laurentian in a recent game. The Irish have two 
matches this weekend. 
By KEVIN DOLAN served break tonight to face Sports Writer Central Michigan tonight and University of Illinois tomorrow, The Irish men's volleyball both games in the Thunderpit at 
team returns from a well de-the Joyce A.C. C. 
O'MALLEY AWARD 
1993 UNDERGRADUATE TEACHER 0£ _THE YEAR AWARD 
•

what IS I·r?. 
Each year a committee of students represent­ing all years and majors decide which under­graduate prof has best dedicated his/her time and effort to classroom teaching. The chosen prof wins an award of $1 000. 
an students nominate the profs? 
YES! Forms for nominating your favorite and 
most deserving profs will be available in the 
Student  Government  Offic~  2nd  floor  of  
Lafortune starting Fri.  March  1 9.  They will  
be  due  by Wed.  March  31 .  



According to outside hitter Pat Madden, the Irish should do well against CMU, a team they have yet to face. 
"If we play well, we expect to win," said Madden. "They could surprise us, but we really don't know what to expect." 
The Irish have played well against Illinois in the past, with one of their best matches of last season coming against the Illini on their own court. 
"We were playing without our best player ( Dave Bose ), who was coaching, and we all played really well," said Madden. 
Senior Chris Murdy joins the Irish starting lineup for the first time this season tonight, re­placing the injured Matt Strottman, who hurt his knee in a skiing accident. 
Murdy stepped lnto the last Irish match, against Illinois­Chicago, and had a strong performance, finishing with three kills and two blocks in limited action. 
Madden also took time to re­flect on the season so far, a season that has seen the Irish go 15-3 in dual matches. One thing that has impressed Mad­den is the way the Irish have played through personnel changes. 
"We've had a lot of injuries and departures, so just about everyone has gotten a chance to start," said Madden. "While that's good for experience pur­poses, it would have been nice get into a groove with one steady lineup." 
Madden feels that the Irish's best performance was a strong defeat of Purdue which avenged an early-season defeat at the hands of the Boilermakers. 
"Everyone was very focused, due to the first loss," said Mad­den. "We knew we couldn't take them lightly, and revenge gave us the mental edge." The Irish took that match 15-12, 15-10, 9-15, and 15-5 in a match that saw the Thunderpit filled with screaming fans and a yellow card to the Irish P.A. announcer. 
The Irish get a chance to warm up for the post-season tomorrow in the Pit at 7:30 against Central Michigan. While the Irish have high hopes for the playoffs, according to Madden, "we're trying to taktJ it one match at a time." Pack the Pit tonight and tomorrow at 
3:00 p.m. to cheer on the Irish, who dominate with a vocal crowd behind them. 
page 22 The Observer 
Women squash Illinois, 7-2 
Drake, Michigan, Kansas St. await this weekend 
By RIAN AKEY women's tennis squad's 7-2 analysis. Freshman Wendy Sports Writer bruising of Illinois yesterday at Crabtree dropped her number­the Eck Tennis Pavilion. • one singles match to Lindsey "One down, three to go." The entire Notre Dame team, Nimmo, the nation's 14th­That's how freshman Sherri in fact, was as no-nonsense on ranked player, but the Irish only 
Vitale summed up the Irish the court as Vitale was in her dropped one other set in singles as they cruised to a 5-1 lead. Vitale, playing at number two, was the only player for the Irish who needed three sets to post a win. "She was very difficult to play," said Vitale of her oppo­nent. "She was very streaky and hit either a lot of winners or had a lot of errors." Vitale's set scores show the streaks in play. After winning the first set 6-3, she fell behind 1-3 in the second, rallied to a 4­3 lead ancklventually fell 4-6. "The second set, she was ei­ther totally on or totally off," Vitale said. The third set, though, was all Vitale as she coasted 6-2 for the match. Even with the match wrapped up after singles, the Irish doubles squads did not relent. At number-one doubles, Crabtree and junior Lisa Tholen teamed up to upset the region's 4th-ranked doubles team 6-4, 
6-1. 
Coach Jay Louderback was pleased with his team's effort in the doubles matches. 
"Sometimes," he said, "It's tough to play doubles when the match has already been decided in singles. All three teams played well today." 
Yesterday's Notre Dame win came in the first contest in a six-match homestand. No rest, 
see Tennis/ page 16 


The Observer/Brian McDonough Freshman Holyn Lord from Carmel, Ind. extended her win streak to 10­gam~s last night at Eck Pavilion. 
-Meet Your Arts and Letters Major-
Date and Time  Major  Place  
Sunda~. March 21, 1993  
7:00-8:00  English  114 O'Shaughnessy  
8:00-9:00  German & Russian  215A O'Shaughnessy  
Monda~. March 22, 1993  
5:00-6:00  African-American Studies  215AO'Shaughnessy  
6:00-7:00  Art, Art History & Design  200 Riley  
European Studies  207 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00-8:00  Government  116 O'Shaughnessy  
8:00-9:00  Latin American Studies  207 O'Shaughnessy  
Tyesda~. March 2~. 199~  
5:00-6:00  Sociology  2170'Shaughnessy  
Romance Languages  114 O'Shaughnessy  
Hesburgh Program  218 O'Shaughnessy  
6:00-7:00  History  217 O'Shaughnessy  
COTH  2180'Shaughnessy  
Medieval Studies  114 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00-8:00  Gender Studies  217 O'Shaughnessy  
Economics  2180'Shaughnessy  
8:00-9:00  American Studies  2180'Shaughnessy  
Wednesda~. March 24, 1993  
5:00-6:00  Music  103 Crowley  
CAPP  217 O'Shaughnessy  
Classics  219 O'Shaughnessy  
Anthropology  215A O'Shaughnessy  
6:00-7:00  Theology  215A O'Shaughnessy  
Film & Cultural Studies  207 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00~8:00  Psychology  215A O'Shaughnessy  
Asian Studies  207 O'Shaughnessy  
Thursda~. March 25, 1993  
5:00-6:00  STV  217 O'Shaughnessy  
ALPP  114 O'Shaughnessy  
Peace Studies  218 O'Shaughnessy  
6:00-7:00  Philosophy  217 O'Shaughnessy  
Education  114 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00-8:00  Soviet & European Studies  217 O'Shaughnessy  
PPE  218 O'Shaughnessy  

-. 
Friday, March19, 19!0 
Two throwers to FSU lnvitationa 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
"On Saturday, two members of the Notre Dame men's track team will compete at the Florida State Invitational in Tal­lahassee marking the beginning 

Jon Smerek

of the outdoor track season for 
the Irish. weekend, they get the chanc1 
Sophomore Stuart Tyner and having a meet under their be junior Jon Smerek will repre­Last year Notre Dame sen sent Notre Dame in the discus contingent of field event a competition. Field events coach letes to this meet as well. Scott Winsor will also be travel­"With these two l"ellas," s ling with the throwers to Talla­Piane, "if the weather's got 
hassee. would expect them to co 
"The reason that we're back both qualified for sending these kids is because IC4A's." they've been training for a long time. Jon has been training Smerek is a two-time since September and Stuart gram winner and posted since football season ended. Dame's best discus throw of The discuss event is not com­year's outdoor season wi peted during the indoor season 161-foot throw. Last year at so these two haven't had the Florida State Invitatior luxury of competition," said Smerek threw the discus 1 
Notre Dame head track coach 1" and qualified for the ICM, Joe "Piane. "By competing this meet. 
~~ GR£_,.Yr \YALL
J.,~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT & COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin a Hunan Culalnel 

UNDAY BUFFET BRUNCH 
Every Sunday 11:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. 

ALL YOU CAN EAT$895 ~::~ $395 
Includes Soup, Salad Ber, Appetlars, 8 Different En~ a De..arta 
130 Dixie WayS., South Bend 272 7376
(next to lfandall'l • 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPOR1" CATCH 'EM 
SATURDAY 
Women's Tennis vs Drake 
11 AM 

Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Free admission 
Lacrosse vs MarylaOO -Baltiioore Cmmty 2PM Loftus 
Free admission 
Founder, Page Education Foundation Former Assistant Attorney General, State of Minnesota Notre Dame Football All-America Member, National Football League Hall of Fame 
7:30p.m. Saturday, March 20, 1993 Room 101, DeBartolo Hall FREE ADMISSION OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
In Celebration of the Twentieth Anniversary of the University of Notre Dame's 
Black Law Students Association (Co-sponsored by the University of Notre Dame AI:Jmni A'>Soc.j 
----~---------------------------~ 
Today 
page 24 

C> 

-rnouG.H I'VE. NEV£R BEEN 
IN TillS SITliAlioN &FoR£,1'~ CONVINCfD I WILL FAIL. 
~'{ PooR TRAC.K .RfC.ORP WITH WOMEN HA5 r'lADE ME l.lNTRIJSTINii!. 
""· 
,. 
JAY HOSLER 

,,, 

BILL WATIERSON 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

~-/9 

"Look, Dad! •.. Snidgets!" 


Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 
ACROSS 
Emulates 
Clotho Preachy pamphlet 
Parsonage personage 
Minsk moolah Dutch painter: 1450?-1516 
Crackerjack Written reminder 
S.C. river Powerful sharks Phobia 
provokers: 
Abbr. Start of a Mozart title 
Returning tide? 
26 Thrown for a 51 Sounds from loss Dagwood 29 A "Deliverance" 52-Ste. Marie co-star of Burt 53 Cherry red 30 Scale run 56 Impress sharply 32 Manila machete 58 A word from the Beav
33 Wartime Joes 

59 Things in 14 
34 The paintings of 

Across's 
14 Across are 

triptych garden 
full of this 

62 Amounts to 37 Hector, once 
63 Teeth trouble 40 Old Testament 
64 Post-shower shepherd wraparound 41 Winker's 65 Shell out apparatus 
45 Finial 

DOWN 46 Contradiction 
1 Describing
48Mens­

Burns's mouse
(sound mind) 

2 For each 49 In the sack 
3 Dungeon equipment 4 Composer Rota 5 It cuts a wide swath 6 Broadway hit about Capote 16 Listens to 7 Crooner 21 Mayberry jail Columbo habitue a Swedish rock 23 A convertiplane group 26 Ice-cream treat 9 Exact replica 27 Eero Saarinen's 10 Lab activity father 11 Summer singer 
28 Meddlesome 31 Pair

13 Act opener 35 Automotive
14 Veronica of "Hill 
pioneer

Street Blues" 36 Pancho's table 
15 Built up and destroyed 37 "Shalom" 
protoplasm 38 Optimistic 


39 Pantomime so Likewise character 52 English county 42 "The,'ittle dog 54 Eliza's creator 
55 That Gallic girl 43 Narrows 57 Weather report? 44 Appointments 60 Monogram of a 47 Cacao beans designer 

. ·• 
were their 61 Two-handed wampum card game 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-42o­5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0205 

lE.:e»:111~-y'::ID1C»C»ll1 
-
1:111 

Vegas 
l~llllltlY & S.ll'I'Uili)AY !J/19 & 2() CIJSDINt; AUI)I'IlllliUII II:()() & 1():3() Pll 
...

THE IRISH JOG 
St1turdt1y, Mt1rcll 2() Holy Cross Field 2:3() PM Sign In 1:J fJ-2 •• ()() 
Rell$lrf!llon 12 _e 
Thur. f} Fr1. 4-6 S.U.B. ___ 
~------------------------~­
Sports 
page 24 
TEDS PETERSON 
Super Fan 
' [ 

Sharon Stone and The Mighty Ducks: more in common than just ice cutters 
I remember having mixed emotions the first time I saw a preview for "Basic Instinct" at the beginning of last year. 
As a longtime fan/ admirer/ fervent disciple of actress Sharon Stone, I was pleased th<it she was finally going to receive some mass exposure and well­deserved fame and fortune. 
I also realized that shn would soon become just an­other pinup "babe," a woman lusted after by every drooling, hormone-ravaged sixteen year-old boy with a pair of eyes. 
I'll bet that none of these boys knew that Sharon grew up in Meadville, Pennsylvania. Or that her first big movie break came in Woody Allen's "Stardust Memories." Or that she once appeared in a two-part episode of "Magnum P.l." 
Yeah. sure, I was drooling, too. But I'd been drooling for years. 
So. as I watched clips of a recent press conference introdueing Disney's brand-spankin'-new NHL expansion team in Anaheim, my "Basic Instinct" mixed emotions resurfaced. 
Expansion equals growth and prosperity in the sports world, and the creation of two new franchises in the Los Angeles and Miami areas signals that the NIII. could be the NBA of the mid-1990s: an exploding, fan-crazed money machine. 
These days. if the fans like it, the fans soon get to see enough of it to choke a cash cow. For hockey fans like myself, more exposure and more TV games mean we're happier (fatter and lazier, too). 
At the same time, I look at Disney CEO Michael Eisner and I see that drooling sixteen year-old boy all over again. 
Who knows whether or not Eisner has a genuine interest in hockey; perhaps the sport is a passing fancy 
see Hockey/ page 20 Friday, March 19,1993 


Lax wants to avenge loss 
Irish hoping to beat 19th-ranked UMBC 
By KEVIN McGUIRE again.st ranked Sports Writer opponents. 
Corrigan 

Heading into the third weekend of the summed up his season, the Notre Dame lacrosse team's squad's year has gone according to plan. With performance. four solid performances behind them, 
..olli.


the Irish are looking to avenge last year's "We had spurts 
Randy Colley

loss at the hands of the 19th-ranked Uni­of good play, but versity of Maryland Baltimore-County (2-we never put 
1) on Saturday at 1:30 at Loftus. together a totally 
Coach Kevin Corrigan anxiously awaits sound game. I Saturday's contest: " I feel UMBC was think everybody one of the two teams that beat us realizes that there soundly last year. But we're looking is a lot of potential forward to getting another shot at for growth, them." especially out of 
In their first three games, UMBC has all the young kids averaged 18 goals a game, so the main we're playing." task of the Irish will be to stop their potent offense. Corrigan will look to the The Irish had a good week of practice, defensive line of sophomores Mike Iorio and will once again rely on junior and Billy Gallagher and junior Garrett attacker Randy Colley's oll'ensive skills to Reilly along with goalie Chris Parent to get the team out of the blocks early. quiet UMBC. Colley is coming ofT his record setting 

"UMBC has a great first midfield that performance against the University of ran together last year, so they're very New Hampshire in which he broke the experienced and smart, but if we play a record for goals with 7, and tied the well disciplined defense I think we can school record for points with 9. stop them," Corrigan said. Supporting him will be juniors Steve 
The Irish are coming off their best Manley and Hobbie Snyder and spring break ever, racking up three wins freshman Hob Tobin who all played well on the east coast with two of them over break. 
NO baseball looking to tame Wildcats 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
Coming off an encouraging spring break trip, the 16th-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (2-3) heads to Kentucky for a four-game series with the Wildc;ats (8-41 this weekend. 
Execution will be the key for the Irish if they hope to come away from the weekend with some wins. Notre Dame head coach Pat Murphy listed some of Kentucky's strengths. 
"They're ahead of us as far as workouts are concerned. They have a good pitching staiT which will be a challenge for us ... They an~ a diseiplined team and they play well at home. They will play consistent baseball," said Murphy. 
"We hit the ball very well (over breakl and we were aggressive on offense, but we didn't exerute as well. Tuck (Irish assistant Gary Tuck) has done a grPat job with the hitters and they're ready to hit." 
On Friday night, Kentucky's Srott Smith_(l-3, 0.99 ERA) and Notre Dame's Chris Michalak (2-0, 9.75 I~HAl will match their talents on the mound. Smith bested Dayton, but lost to N.C. State, Alabama-Birmingham and Indiana. Michalak was a winner against Arizona State and Wichita State. 
Tim Kraus (0-11. Tom Price (0-0) and AI Walania (0-1) are also slated for starts for the Irish whi!l~ possible starters for Kentueky include Matt Bowles (1-1), Lorhn Frazier (2-0) and Troy Trumbo (1-0). 
The Irish starting lineup will feature some ehanges. After an impressive start, freshman Howan Hichards will get the nod in centerfield while junior Greg Layson used his bat to tighten his hold on the starting job at second. Layson hit a scorching .500 over break hitting safely in 11 of 22 trips to the plate. 
For the Wildcats, players to watch include outfielder Matt Bragga (.417, B HBI), infielder Chris Gonzalez 
.s<. J.:," ·.<­
(.41 0, 2 HR) and infielder JefT Michael (.372, 7 SB). 
-··i•dll•* ..... .•. 
Last year, the Irish won the Big Four Classic in
.. 

Louisville, Ky. after defeating Kentucky 6-2 in the 
~··· .·.. 


championship game. A day earlier, the Wildcats had beaten Notre Dame 8-1. 
The Observer/ Jake Peters The games will be a sort of homecoming for Notre Dame's Greg Layson bring a .500 batting average Kentucky-natives, Craig Allen (Franklin). Matt Haas into this weekend's four-game series against Kentucky. (Paducah), Robby Birk (Louisville) and Craig DeSensi The junior will also solidify the defense at second base. (Louisville). 


~OO~~illrn SPORTS 
NCAA HOOPS SAINT MARY•s 
TENNIS 

Complete results 

Women crush lllini. see page 16 
Volleyball coach honored 
by high school. see page 22 see page 21 
,J 




