

Tuesday, November 2, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 41 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


• Two years after being told she may never walk, Haley Scott swims again 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sporrs Editor 
All Haley Scott worried about was making a fool of herself. 
She ignored what her teammates, family, and friends were saying. "It was good enough that she just swim," they kept saying. Good enough for them, but not her. 
And last Friday, Haley Scott did what she needed to do. She won. 
Twenty-one months after doctors told her that she would be lucky to walk again, the junior from Arizona sprinted 50-yards across the pool at Rolfs Aquatic Center and touched the wall ahead of the seven other swimmers in her heat. 
It was just as she used to do before the bus accident that temporarily paralyzed here and killed two of her teammates. 
With her family and teammates surrounding the pool, Scott leaped to a quick start in the 50-yard freestyle and never looked back. 
She smiled contented when she realized she won, pulled herself from the pool, and walked over to her teammates and coach and to a barrage of hugs. 
"Everyone was crying, even coach (Tim) Welsh," said team captain Kristin Heath, "except for Haley. We were all a mess, but not her." 
Scott did not shed one tear. Not later when she hugged her parents, with her mom crying and her father saying over and over how proud they were of her. 
She had done enough crying. When the doctors started putting rods in her back, the ones she can feel today, she cried. All the surgeries started to take a toll on her emotional­ly. And the scars each operation brought, reminders that 
see HALEY SCOTT I page 4 
Priests reflect on democratic changes in Chile 
By MARIA CULCASI News Writer 
Following the recent transition from dictatorship to democracy in Chile, the Chilean people feel that coming back to democracy is like regaining something of their own being: their soul, according to Chilean priests Monsignor Christian Precht and Monsignor Sergio Valech in a lecture ·last night. 
"The political transition was very significant because it was done democrat­ically, and the Catholic Church played a prominent role in this transition, said Precht. 
The archbishops of Chile not only pro­moted human rights, but they also brought together representatives of the various political parties to ask what they would be willing to give up to improve Chile. According to Precht, this was the starting point of the transition. 
Since the transition Precht said the Church must now "take a step back." According to Precht, it is no longer the role of the Church to remain politically involved. Instead, he says that their role is now to inform, and to make sure that lay people become involved in the reforms. 
However, Chile must still face several obstacles in addition to the reforms. First of all, Precht stated that they must stabi­lize the democracy. 
"Right now, we do not have a fluent relationship with the military," he said. 
In addition, Precht said they must "help heal the wounds" and achieve justice concerning the 1,000 people still missing from the seventeen years of the dictator­ship. 
"Chile is a country of contrast between the rich and the poor and he poor must not be neglected," said Precht. "It's so easy to forget the poor." 
He also stated that the Church must play a role in aiding the poor. 
Another challenge facing the new government of Chile is multiculturalism. Precht said that they need to face differ­ent cultures, and see a "different perspective of life." 
Finally, Precht said that they must also be aware of ethical problems in their society. 
"There cannot be an ethical, or a good, society unless we have a source of inspi­ration," he said. "That inspiration should 
see CHILE I page 6 

ND quartet to perform chants, organ selections at Sacred Heart 
By MARGARET VIDA 
News Writer 
Schola Musicorum, a quartet consisting of music professors, directors and a graduate stu­dent, will hold its first free per­formance tonight at 10 pm in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
"The programs are intended to be brief, exciting interludes, open to the public," according to Associate Professor Alexander Blachly. 
This evening's abend­musique concert, the first in the series, will consist of Gregorian chants interspersed with organ selections. The chants are pre­viously unheard renditions. Both Blachly and Professor Calvin Bower transcribed the chants themselves. 

"This is some-and musical thing that hasn't settings are been heard for a rich, imagina­couple hundred tive artworks," years," said first according to year graduate Bower. student in The series of M u s i c o I o g y , concerts is de-Lewis Coleman. signed to offer 
The items to be s o m e t h i n g p e r f o r m e d other than tonight by simply a group Bower, Blachly, of singers per-Coleman and forming a pre-Notre Dame viously trans-chorale director lated chant. Daniel Stowe, "Going back center in subject to the fifth matter around TheObserver/AianSmith century, there the Virgin Mary. The quatret Schola Musicorum practises their original Georgian chants was a distinc-Stemming from in preparation for their show tonight. tion between a fragments of 12th vide "unusual melodic varia-cantor. who and 13th century psalms, the tions," said Coleman. would just sing, and the 'musi­newly transcribed chants pro-"The language of the texts cus' who would study and know the music's construction in addition to how it's performed. Schola Musicorum is not so much just singers, but people who study the art and theory of music also," said Coleman. 
"Exploring this repertory has proved a surprisingly reward­ing experience," according to Bower. 
In addition to the chants, or­gan music by 17th century composer Girolamo Frescobaldi will be performed by Gail Walton, director of music at the Basilica and director of the liturgical choir. 
In order to comply with its la­bel of abend-musique, a term used to describe the night recitals of 17th century com­poser Dietrich Buxtehude, the 
see CONCERT I page 6 


-------------~-­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN NATION AT AGLANCE 

Rest assured: the 'Noles will roll 
And then there were six. -------­
Six unbeaten and untied 
teams remain in Division 
1-A: Florida State, Ohio 
State, Nebraska, Auburn, 
West Virginia and Notre Dame. Six teams which ~ 
have survived two months 
of football without drop­}~.:J 
ping a game or settling %. 
for a tie. Rolando de Aguiar 
But how many of those Viewpoint Editor 
deserve an unblemished 
record; deserve to be 
included in the title hunt 
this season? 
The coaches won't even vote for Auburn, 
which is on probation. If only because they 
can't prove themselves in a bowl game, the 
Tigers should be left out of the running unless 
no one else stands tw-oh-and-oh on January 2. 
West Virginia is the second-best team in a 
mediocre conference (and is led by a quarter­
back who once fought Rick Mirer for the start­
ing job at Notre Dame). The Mountaineers will 
surely lose before the end of November. They'll 
be out of the hunt soon enough. 
But who does deserve serious consideration? 
Ohio State has been impressive so far, and 
has yet to face its two biggest challenges of the 
season, Wisconsin and Michigan. But even if 
John Cooper heads to the Rose Bowl, rest 
assured that he'll pull the traditional New 
Year's trick and get drubbed by UCLA. 
Nebraska still plays in the Big Eight, which 
is most of the reason that the Huskers (8-0) are 
behind both Miami (7-1) and Alabama (7-0-1) 
in the AP poll. Sure, they'll get killed by 
whomever in the Orange Bowl. But they have 
to face Colorado and Oklahoma every year. 
Nebraska, at least, will play two challenging 
games in 1993. 
Not so for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has only one challenge this sea­
son: Florida State. Michigan is ahead of only 
three teams in the Big Ten. The Irish have 
beaten two of those: Northwestern and Purdue. 
Pitt? Brigham Young? When Notre Dame 
scheduled these teams ten years ago, they 
were tough. Now, they're about as solid as a 
fudgesicle left out to thaw. 
The '93 schedule is a joke. When the Irish 
won the national championship in 1988, they 
did it against the toughest schedule in the 
nation. 
When Florida State wins the title this year, 
they will accomplish the same feat. It will have 
beaten Miami, Notre Dame and Florida in its 
non-conference schedule. 
FSU is clearly the best team in the nation. 
The Seminoles have crushed every team 
they've shared the field with. Bowden, Ward 
and Co. are a fearsome bunch, and the only 
thing that might slow them down when they 
visit Michiana in two weeks is a solid dose of 
sleet. 
Notre Dame certainly won't stop the 'Noles. 
No one should really wonder who will be unde­
feated when FSU leaves town. The question is 
whether Florida State will improve its points 
per game average (which now stands at 43.75). 
Count on it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Liz Foran John Bangham Laura Ferguson Production 
Sports John Rock Beth Regan Kathie Young Viewpoint Graphics 
Rolando De Aguiar Brendan Regan 
The Ob>erv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi>hed Monday through Friday cxccpr Juring exam and vacalion period!.. The Observer is a member of chc Associaled Press. All rcproduclion righls are reserved. 

Tragedy at University ofWisconsin following victory over Michigan 
·: .; ,. 

When Camp Randall Stadium is full, the 77,745 fans it holds make it-for a few hours on fall Saturday afternoons­the sixth largest city in the state. Only Milwaukee, with a 1990 population of 628,088; Madison, 1 91,262; Janesville, 96,466; Racine, 84,298; and Kenosha, 80,352, have more people than Camp Randall on Game Day. 
3. Fence separating  2. 3-ft. high iron railing  
fans from the field  (embedded in cement)  
collapsed. The most  fell as the crowd  
severe injuries  pushed forward.  
occurred between  
railing and fence.  

Photo by Joe Koshollek/Milwaukee Sentinel via AP 

Rush Limbaugh says no to blue jeans 
NEW YORK 

Don't bother looking for blue jeans in Rush Limbaugh's closet. He doesn't own any. They make a political state­ment he doesn't agree with. "The generation I grew up with wore T -shirts, tie-dyes and jeans. Peace signs all over them," Limbaugh said. "At my little college, we had our contingent of antiwar protesters on campus, and they were all blue-jean clad." Playboy magazine, which pub­lished a lengthy interview with the pugnacious commen­tator in its December edition, tried to change his wardrobe. Magazine officials tried to present him with a pair of size 44-longs. Playboy's Cindy Rakowitz, vice pres­ident of public relations, got as far as the reception area at Limbaugh's WABC Radio studio. 
California museum features toliet art 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

New York has the MOMA. Paris has the Louvre. Berkeley has the New Sense Museum, where art is strict­ly in the eyes of the beholder. The New Sense (say it fast) consists of a vacant, weed-strewn lot studded with weird objects, most notably a flotilla of commodes painted fluo­rescent pink, orange and green. "What can I say? Art is whatever you can get away with, I guess," said Andy Ross of nearby Cody's Books. ''I'd much rather have a nice monumental Picasso or an ice skating rink, but we have the museum." 
Verdicts too lenient, Times poll says 
LOS ANGELES 

A majority of residents believe the verdicts in the Reginald Denny beating case were too lenient and jurors feared another riot, according to a newspaper poll. The survey in Tuesday's editions of the Los Angeles Times showed 67 percent of those questions believed the jury was motivated by fears for their own safety and of anoth­er riot. Seventy-five percent of Hispanics held that view, 66 percent of whites and 53 percent of blacks. "Just look at the video and you can see they are guilty," said respondent Gerusalem Ortiz, 45, a machine operator from Huntington Park. Sixty-three percent of those polled felt the Denny verdicts were too lenient. Times Poll: Majority of Residents Say Verdicts Too Lenient 
Flavor Flav arrested after shooting 
NEW YORK 

Flavor Flav of Public Enemy was arrested for allegedly shooting at a neighbor Monday in a dispute authorities say may have started over the rapper's girlfriend. The 34-year-old musician, whose real name is William Drayton, was to be arraigned Tuesday on attempted mur­der and weapons possession charges, police said. lie was ordered held without bail. The shooting took place out­side the high-rise apartment building where Drayton and the other man live and may have been over Drayton's girlfriend, said police Sgt. Michael McGrath. The incident occurred a day after another prominent rapper, Tupac Shakur, was arrested in the shooting of two off-duty police officers in Atlanta. Shakur, who was released on bail Monday, was charged with two counts of aggravated assault. The officers were released from a hospital Monday. 
Drugs may haved caused Phoenix's death 
LOS ANGELES 

River Phoenix lay dying on the sidewalk while his brother pleaded with a fire department dispatcher to send help for the actor, who collapsed outside a night­club. "You must get here, please, you must get here, please," his brother said. ''I'm thinking he had Valium or something." First, the 23-year-old actor was writhing on the sidewalk. Then he lay motionless, as if sleeping. Within an hour, Phoenix was pronounced dead early Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. An autopsy Monday was inconclusive, said coroner's spokesman Scott Carrier. Results of blood and chemical tests will take weeks, he said. 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 2. 
INDIANA Weather 
Tuesday, Nov. 2 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
ILL. 

FRONTS: 
"'T""T" ..&...a.... ~ COLD WARM STATIONARY Cl1993 Accu-Wearher, Inc. Pressure 
r.7l

H L 
L.:..:J IZ3 ~It i) !:.J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE · SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
KY. City H L 
Dallas 65 52 Philadelphia 78 61 Jerusalem 84 64 Phoenix 88

Athens 81 61 
London 52 39 Reno 60

AHanta 80 64 
Los Angeles 86 64 Rome 75 59

Boston 70 48
q,~,~p~Q (t ~ u 
Minneapolis 49 34 Tokyo 66 59

: ~
Chicago 53 39 
New York 68 54 Toror:to 59 50

Showers T-slorms Rain Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cleveland 57 48 
Paris 48 41 

VIa Associated Press GraphicsNet C1993Accu-Weather, Inc. 

Tuesday, November 2, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Laux, students explore effective leadership skills at forum 
By CORRINE DORAN 
News Writer 
The key to being an effective leader lies in relating leader­ship styles to situations and people, according to Rob Laux, program ordinator 
for the Office o Stu den Activities. 
"How to be an Effectiv Leader," held last night in the Notre Rob Laux Dame Hoom of LaFortune, was the first of the three-part leadership forum sponsored by the Office of Student Activities. 
"It is most important to un­derstand your own leadership style and appreciate others' styles in relation to your lead­ership style," said Laux. 
There are six traditional methods to identify leadership qualities, according to Laux. 
The conventional method in­cludes people who like to deal with data and numbers; realis­tic people like concrete situa­tions; investigative like to ob­serve; artistic enjoy innovation; social have good people skills; and enterprising enjoy influ­encing others. 
The most beneficial situation, Laux said, occurs when the personalities of group members contrast. 
"Something important to try to do is to create some type of balance," Laux said. 
Recognizing the different strengths of group members will make you more likely to be successful and the rest of the group to be happy, according to 



CLUB COLUMN 
November 2, 1993 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 3 p.m. Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition ofThe Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
1. 
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION: There will be a general club meeting for all members and anyone else interested in attending on Nov. 3 at 8:00 in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. Tickers for the AAA Dinner to be held on Nov. 10 will be sold. Tickers will be sold for $5; for members who have paid their dues, the price will be $4. 

2. 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE: ND/SMC Right to Life will hold a meeting tonight ar 7:30 p.m. in rhe Montgomery Theatre (1 07 LaFortune). All are welcome. 


Laux. 

"It is very important to match a person's style with the envi­ronment that they are in," added Laux. 
When leading a group, Laux said, a person has five main re­sponsibilities: 
• 
Let them know the purpose of the group or goal. 

• 
Let them know the facts in­cluding financial responsibili­ties. 

• 
Let them know the tasks by discussing projects for the year. 

• 
Let them know the schedule of deadlines. 

• 
Follow up. One of the most important roles of a leader is to serve as a link between people in the organization. 


Setting priorities is the basis for being a good leader, accord­ing to Laux. Health, family, academics and co-curricular activities should fall in this or­der of importance. 
"You start with a solid foundation of being healthy, a solid family background, and you go from there," said Laux. 
When leading a group Laux said, "Set standards high and strive for them. You need to believe in what you're doing." 
Being fair in enforcing poli­cies creates a foundation of co­operativeness, according to Laux. 
"You need to allow flexibility; everything is not going to run perfectly every time," he said. 
Another point Laux made was not to worry about circum­stances you have no power to change. 
"Worry about the things you have control over," he said. 
A commitment to your posi­tion means a great deal in lead­ing, according to Laux. "It is important to believe in what you are doing." 
Before making a decision, Laux said it is important to get as much information as possi­ble. 
The most important aspect of leadership is enjoying the pro­ject according to Laux. 
"The bottom line is that you need to have fun. You need to enjoy what you do," said Laux. 
Praising members for their work is an integral part of lead­ing, according to Laux. 
"You praise people in public, you criticize them in private," said Laux. 
To complete the series, a pro­gram on decision making and problem solving will be on Nov. 
8. "Creating Change Within your Organization" will take place on Nov. 15. Both semi­nars will be held from 7-8 pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 

First lady fires back at insurance industry 
By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Hillary Clinton accused insur­ance companies Monday of waging a deceitful campaign against the Clinton health plan to protect profits and preserve the ability to cut people off when they get sick. 
"It is time for you and for ev­ery American to stand up and say to the insurance industry, 'Enough is enough. We want our health care system back,"' she told more than 2,000 pedi­atricians. 
But the industry said it was the first lady who was guilty of deception and promised to press its $6.5 million advertis­ing campaign that raises ques­tions about President Clinton's health plan. 
Mrs. Clinton's voice was fraught with emotion as she spoke of the "struggle" for health reform and praised the American Academy of Pediatrics for fighting for chil­dren. 
The group's new president, pediatrician Betty Lowe, once treated Chelsea Clinton in Little Rock. 
The first lady castigated the "Harry and Louise" television ads run by the Health Insurance Association of America that question key fea­tures of the Clinton plan. 
"One of the great lies that is currently afoot in this country is that the president's plan will limit choice. To the contrary, the president's plan enhances choice," said Mrs. Clinton. 
She referred sarcastically to the "homey kitchen ads" that -end with a woman sighing, "There must be a better way." 
"What you don't get told in the ad is that it is paid for by insurance companies who think their way is the better way," said Mrs. Clinton. 
"They like being able to ex­clude people from coverage be­cause the more they can ex­clude, the more money they can make," she charged. 

WEEK OF NOVE.I\1BER l, 1993 
JOB NETWORK LINKS STUDENTS AND ALUMNI 
Entering  the  job  The Job Network  opportunities for full-time  An  assistant  is  
market is a  major adjust­ is available free of charge  employment, as well as for  needed to work with the  
ntand concern for many  to all students and can be  swnmer jobs and intern­ Food, Drug, Alcohol, and  
adults,  but Notre  accessed  at any campus  ships.  Health  Commissioner in  
computercluster. Thepro­ Jobs  are  already  Student Government. Re­ 
gram is very simple, and  listed in the network and  sponsibilities will include  
top positions in van- information on using it is  new openings will be en­ examining current issues  
fields around theworld,  available from the consult­ tered  as  they  come  in  and  policies relating  to  
they are often eager to  ants in the computer labs.  throughout the year .  So  health and substances and  
current Darners. The  The listing for  each job  take  advantage  of the  proposing and implement­ 
ND Job Network has re­ opportunity includes the  strong  bond  between  ing new strategies in prob­ 
cently been established to  position available, a job de­ Notre Dame alumni and  lem areas.  Ifyou are inter­ 
link Notre  Dame gradu­ scription, location, qualifi­ current  students,  and  ested, please call Michelle  
tes with students who are  cations,  and  application  check  out  the  ND Job  Stolpman, Food,  Drug,  
for employment.  information.  There  Network.  Alcohol, and Health Com­ 
missioner, at 634-4271.  
QUIZ BOWL BEGINS NOV. 8  
BeginningN ovem­ format to "Jeopardy", and  
ber 8, students and faculty  will be a double elimina­ 
members  will test  their  tion  tournament lasting  
knowledge  as  they  com­ through  November  11.  
peteinthe Faculty/Student  Lookfor more information  
Quiz Bowl. Each teamwill  laterin the week, andwatch  
consist of four members,  Notre  Dame's  best and  
at least one of whom is a  brightest compete  in  the  
faculty member. The com­ Faculty/Student  Quiz  
petition will be similar in  Bowl.  


---~­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 2, 1993 


Haley Scott 
continued from page 1 
would last longer than the tears. 
But all that was forgotten on Friday, because in the 26.10 seconds it took Scott to finish her race all the memories and scars were forgotten, and only Haley remains. 
''I'm so sick of being someone who is hurt," she said days before the race, "sick of being an excuse. I just want to be a swimmer." 
That is what she is today and has always been in her mind. 
"If feels so good to be a part of the team. I missed that more than I missed th!'l swimming," she said. "Taking trips with my teammates and practice, those were the things I really missed. 
"I always knew I would swim again. I think the doctors stopped telling me what I could not do, because I wasn't listen­ing." 
Since the first day they said she couldn't, Haley said she would. 
Every day since they told her no, she envisioned what her first race back would be like. The start. the stroke, her turn­she had to hit the turn, the sprint to the finish, and finally to touch that wall. 
"I thought about it a lot, prob­ably too much," she said. "And in the weeks before the meet all 
OBSERVE THE WARNING SIGNS. 


uyoo rave chest pai'l 1astn:J two mnutes or mora. see adoctor. 
.c•aAmerican Heart ~P" Association 
the media reminded me of how close the meet was. I started to get scared." 
The weekend before the meet, Scott returned home. She spent the time relaxing, a few days alone with her family. 
It was the final step in a long plan Scott had set up for herself leading up to Friday's race. Those few days would be her chance to prepare mentally, and the months before to pre­pare physically. 
The whole summer she trained in Tempe with team­mate Lorrei Horenkamp. For two hours, six days a week she woke early to train. Sometimes her back would warn her to stop, but she always made it to the pool. 
She also lifted three days a week, slowing regaining the strength that made her a high school All-American and one of Notre Dame's top swimmers before the accident. 
She came to school in August in the best shape of her life. "She looked better than she 

ever did before," said Heath. "And when we saw her swim, we knew that Haley was back. 
"Going into the meet we knew she would swim well. We had seen it in practice. We just didn't know how she would react to all the attention and emotion." 
That was what the few days at home took care of. 
"My mom kept on thanking me for coming home," said Scott, "but I wanted to be home. It was good for me to get home before the race." 
When she was on the blocks, staring out across the pool Scott didn't feel nervous or scared. She wasn't worried any longer about making a fool of herself. 
"It was just like any other race," she said. "I just concen­trated on what I needed to do." 
Her teammates watched through teary stares and cheered loud, smiling with the tears because of what this race meant. 
"It is like a final chapter in the whole deal. It is finished," Heath said. "The entire morn­ing of the meet the girls from the accident were all together. It was weird how we all came together. As a team it signified an end to the physical pain and to me personally an end to the emotional pain." 
Anne Hipp watched from poolside as Haley touched the wall and later would congratu­late her. Her daughter, Colleen, had been a teammate of Scott's and would still be if it hadn't been for the accident. 
"Mrs. Hipp told me how proud she was of me," said Scott. "She said it was difficult for her to come, but she was 
• Jl)l) ~-1.)-J .::;, \~~"'' • \l"'IRI J)-\Ml ll"'~~\i\\LI\1~ J\lk'\ \\l) llll\IIU I'IZJ)[\1'­
glad that she had." 
Everyone was glad when Scott touched that wall, that's why the cameras followed her every move and reporters asked for a comment. She dove into that pool and put a beauti­ful ending on a tragic story. 
"My mom tells me that I should write a book about my experience," said Scott. "I don't want to write a book. I just want to swim." 
There will be more races and more meets. All will mean less and less to the story, but more and more to the swimmer. 
And in time there will just be a swimmer. 


Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Senate debates Packw"ood diaries 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A nervous Senate, debating sex, allegations of possible criminal conduct and the right to privacy, wrestled reluctantly Monday with a historic motion to enforce a subpoena for Sen. Bob Packwood's "very, very personal" diaries. 
"The Ethics Committee can­not turn a blind eye" to poten­tial violations of criminal law and standards of conduct, Sen. Richard H. Bryan, the panel's chairman, said in asserting a need for the diaries. 
Packwood had said earlier that his more than 8.000 pages 
SECURITY BRIEF 
FRI.,OCT.29 
11 pm A Stanford Hall resident re­ported \he fraudulent use of his credit card. 
SAT.,OCT.30 
1:04am A Stanford Hall resident was stopped by a library monitor while at­tempting to take a book from the Hesburgh Library. 
SUN., OCT. 31 
2:01am An off-campus student was cited for speeding on Angela Blvd. 
10:3S am Security and Notre Dame Fire
~-i:!dp~rl<~n~~~~leklakinggasonneln 
10:47 am Security transported a University employee to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a hand injury. 
3:1S pm Security responded to the 
J.A.C.C. Ice Rink after a report of two ju­veniles fighting. The two juveniles were released to their parents. 
7:02pm A Flanner Hall resident re­ported five student football ticket booklets were taken from his room while he was away on fall break. 
of writings include entries on the sex lives of fellow lawmak­ers. He added Monday that the diaries included references to history-making events and mat­ters that "are very, very per­sonal." 
Even as he offered a last­minute compromise to a hushed Senate, Packwood de­scribed how he had put his in­nermost thoughts to writing, including "family heartaches, disappointment, irritation with the car repairman." 
He said a deal might be worked out if the committee would describe to him the po­tential criminal conduct it said it recently discovered in the di­aries. 
All eyes were on Packwood in the crowded yet hushed Senate chamber as he made his case. By turns combative and ac­commodating, he accused his colleagues on the ethics panel of acting as "prosecutor, jury and judge," but told the rest of the Senate the matter could be settled short of a showdown vote. 
The debate focused on the clash between the ethics com­mittee's determined inquiry­which began with allegations of sexual misconduct and intimi­dation against Packwood -and
A f d
C, 
•

S rife a es Ill a liOfllla, t 
By JEFF BARNARD planned to quickly reseed Associated Press denuded hillsides with grass to hold mud against winter rains. ALTADENA, Calif. The downpours could come 
The raging wildfires that any day, said U.S. Forest destroyed nearly 800 buildings Service rehabilitation expert and burned across 170,000 Bill Brown. acres have left a new threat in "We're really racing against its wake -mudslides. the clock," Brown said Sunday 
As crews struggled today to after returning from a survey of close containment rings on the a scorched area above this Los remaining fires, specialists Angeles suburb. 
the Oregon Republican's asser­tion of his constitutional privacy rights. 
Bryan, D-Nev., spoke of the Senate's unprecedented mo­ment when he told senators, "No member of the Senate, under investigation in any form by the Senate Ethics Committee, has ever in the his­tory of the committee, refused to comply with a document request." 
The committee has been in­vestigating allegations that Packwood made unwanted sex­ual advances to more than two dozen women and attempted to intimidate some of the accusers to keep them quiet. 
Monday's debate, however, focused on the committee's dis­covery of entries outside those areas, which Bryan said could involve criminal conduct. 
When the committee re­quested those entries, Packwood's lawyers-who had been copying committee-desig­nated pages -refused to pro­vide them. The committee, hav­ing reviewed the diaries from 1969-89, then voted to subpoe­na the diaries from Jan. 1, 1989, to the present. 
The full Senate now is decid­ing whether to vote to enforce that subpoena request. 
• c 1• J: 
\ \.._' I R I l) \tv\ l l. l'M M Ll \ ll. \ I I l" \ /1. Nl) !Ill A I 1\ l P1\ l ~I N I ~ 

ENcus11 AcToR DAVID HOWEY PERFORMING 

AT WASHINGTON HALL ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2 AT 4:30P.M. 
No ADMISSION FEE 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

PW Pyromanics 
The women of PW take a study break to toast some marshmellows and get warm by the fire last night. 


h h d 1• d
oug ts turn to ffiU S 1 es 
"There's virtually nothing left to hold any water on the slope. We get some major storms in there and it's like raining on cement or asphalt," he said. 
Brown said he hoped grass would be planted on stripped hills within two weeks. 
Homeowners still recovering from the effects of the fires had already begun worrying about the new threat. 
"We're going to pack up the china and the heirlooms and put them in storage," Connie Towne of Altadena said at a neighborhood party for fire sur­vivors. "Once the silt builds up in the mountains it's going to be a wall of mud." 
Cool, wet weather over the weekend helped firefighters get the upper hand on most of 13 major wildfires that broke out last week along a 200-mile arc from Ventura County through Los Angeles to the Mexican bor­der. The fires torched 171,368 acres, damaged or destroyed 815 buildings, including at least 
CAMPUS BRIEF 

685 homes, and injured 62. 
A preliminary estimate from the state Office of Emergency Services put damage at $500 million. 
Fire officials predicted com­plete containment of all blazes by Tuesday. However, the National Weather Service pre­dicted that hot, dry Santa Ana winds would return Tuesday, which could fan any remaining fires. 
The progress gained on the fires allowed officials to release some firefighting crews from Northern California and other states, though more than 8,000 firefighters remained on the lines, backed up by 35 heli­copters and 28 airplanes drop­ping water and fire-retardant chemicals. 
The natural cycle of fires and floods or mudslides in the Southern California foothills is well known. For those who carve expensive homes into the steep hillsides, it means a one­two punch of disaster. 
University President Emeritus ·· ()IJ. · so many aspects o 
Fatiler Tb~9d,9rf'l..  UJ,"gl). !)as .. 1\tnal'j!!.lW lif~. d,uring. the p(l.st  
been se~~9~ed l  eiva the w• l)alf-eentury/' said  Robert  
W~Jter  Oa  ootball  Garguilo, president of Walter  
~ oil~d~tfpl:l: s  3 • • ..08.InP'  ..·.  .  •. if:.,  .  Wilt  

~Pi$tlnguls --~-­
awatd I:n rac()gniJipn f'!rhis w · elds ()fpi8)l~r ~3d~_ uc . ..... rights• and,. other 
major social issues. ··· 
"lt is a distinct ... or not only for the memb . of the Foundation; but also fof. the ci~ of New,Haven and the state of Connecticut, t9 have the opportunity to salute an out­standing individual who has had such a significant impact •-····'·. The noD.-profit organization\$ _named for Walter Camp the legend,~ry Y~l.f3 coach w~p..J~ tl'egarded as.the "Fitther o 
American Football," and selects 
annually individuals for speciitl 
awards. · · 
Past winners include actress 
Susan Saint James, Bob Hope, 
Chicago Bears founder George 
Halas, General Alexander Haig, 
and coach Edwards Robinson 
of Grambling State Uriiversity. 

9 PM-12AM $1.00 per game! 
=~·=·:-~:-...:-...x-:·:-=·=-=·=·:-,.:-=-=-=·=·=->-......,=....x.;.....,~=-»=-=-=-:«-:.."«':oo-»...».'C«< THURSDAY .......,............................,.............-.................................-..................................."'...... 
TIME BOWL 9:30-11:30 PM Only $10 per lane! 
....,...,""'·'···"""·"··-"".'"''_'_"_,.,._,.,".""<-» STUDENT SPECIAL -------------------"'""·'"-" 
An-ytime! $1.35 per game Anytime! 

4210 L.W. W. Phone 234-4167 
.-------------------------------------------~~------~----------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
Clinton, Supreme Court examine military-gay ban 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
The Clinton administration asked the Supreme Court Tuesday to delay a lower court order banning discrimination against homosexuals in the mil­itary. 
The emergency order, if granted, would enable the Defense Department to imple­ment its new policy on homo­sexuals, which states that re­cruits will not be asked their sexual orientation but that openly declared homosexuals will not be permitted to serve. 
The Justice Department filed its request to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, requesting a partial stay of a U.S. District judge's order while the admin­istration appeals it. The aim is to limit the judge's ruling to Navy Petty Officer· Keith Meinhold, a gay sailor dis-

Chile 
continued from page l 
be the Church or the Gospels." 
Precht also discussed what life was like in Chile before the transition to democracy. 
"When one has lived in a democracy, it is difficult to un­derstand a situation where fear is the rule." Precht said. "We were never able to speak 

Concert 
continued from page l 
concert will be performed in candle-light. 
"The stunning architecture and acoustics of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart are an added stimulus for us to prepare pre­sentations of this wonderful charged from the military in August 1992 after he disclosed he was homosexual. 
The department contended in its application that U.S. District Judge Terry Hatter Jr. "clearly erred with respect to issues of great importance" when he ruled Sept. 30 that the Pentagon could not deny en­listment or promotion, or change enlistment status or duty assignment because of someone's sexual orientation. 
The Pentagon has instructed units to suspend the ban on homosexuals in the military while it pursues the case. 
"The entry of a nationwide injunction in this non-class action conflicts with decisions of this court and numerous courts of appeals holding that an injunction may not be broader than necessary to pro­vide relief to the party before the court," the Justice Department said. 
freely, and it lead to a great amount of censorship. When the transition took place, we learned how to smile again." 
Valich gave some advice to the students. 
"You will be the leaders in the future. This gives you responsibility. You must always try to help the poor and be one who wants to serve and have more understanding. Otherwise, all you are studying here is for nothing." 
music from Catholic heritage," according to Blachly. 
"It's an exciting event that can be enjoyed by students on many different levels. Of course, History and Medieval Studies students will enjoy it more, as well as others familiar with the language-and any­body who just wants to chill with poetic nature," said Coleman. 

GRADUATE 
MANAGEMENT STUDIES 
IN FRANCE 
The Consortium of leading French "Grandes Ecoles" of Management is seeking to recruit June '94 graduates for a 2-year International Management Program in French and/or English. 
For further information about the Schools and the programs they offer, please meet our representative: 
Mrs. Joan FENET at a presentation at: 
The University of Notre Dame 
Conference Room 
on November 4, 1993 
from: 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
Ill passenger freed from jetliner 
By DALATOU MAMANE 
Associated Press 
NIAMEY, Niger 

The hijackers of a Nigerian Airways freed one sick passen­ger today but refused to release nearly three dozen other hostages, most of them gov­ernment officials. 
The hijackers were believed to have singled out government employees as bargaining chips in their demand for the resig­nation of Nigeria's military-backed government. 
By late Monday, however, Niger authorities said the hi­jackers only were demanding enough fuel to get to Frankfurt, Germany. 
Four to six men armed with guns and knives took over the Airbus 310 Monday on a do­mestic flight from Lagos, Nigeria, to the Nigerian capital, Ahuja. The plane was diverted to Niamey, capital of neighbor­ing Niger, for refueling. 
Various authorities have given different figures for the number of passengers and crew on the plane. The Niger Interior Ministry said there originally were 159 people on board, most of whom were released Monday. 
Six crew members and 28 Nigerian government employ­ees remained inside the aircraft parked on a runway of Niamey's international airport, according to the Niger Interior Ministry. 

MOVIE NIGHT The Law Finn of Ford, Cruise, Hackman Pesci & Close presents an all-night tribute to law in the movies. On the docket: 9:00pm A Few Good Men I 1:20pm My Cousin Vinny 1:20am Presumed Innocent 3:30am Jagged Edge 5:20am Class Action --.. ,fjjiOINo~ November 6, 1993 in the LaFortune Ballroom(f,jil)) ~~~ ~7'Ac11W It's Fun, Free and Perfectly Legal!  

t The 
Faculty Upper Room Dinner-Discussion Series 
"Faith and Professional Life" 
The dinner scheduled for November 3 has been postponed. 
It will be re-scheduled at a later date and invitations will be mailed. 
(?MPUSMINI5TRY 
BUSINESS 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 page 7 
Clinton urges business owners to push NAFTA

Riverboat gambling vote nears 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Supporters and opponents of riverboat gambling make one last appeal before Tuesday's local referenda on the question of whether to play host to the floating casinos. 
Along the Ohio River, oppo­nents bought half-hour blocks of Monday evening airtime on three television stations that serve Evansville and the sur­rounding Vanderburgh County area. 
They are doing battle with six casino companies each have donated $45,000 to YES!, the pro-riverboat committee. 
To the north, on Lake Michigan's shores, a Joliet, Ill.­based riverboat casino corpo­ration has sunk $350,000 to court voters in Hamm,ond, where it is seeking a license from the Indiana Gaming Commission. 
The United Methodist Church in Indiana have geared up to urge no-votes in both north and south. 
Voters in nine Indiana coun­ties and two cities in a lOth county go to the polls to vote yes or no on a referendum that holds the fate of riverboat casi­nos in their areas. 
The votes are scheduled for Hammond and East Chicago in Lake County, and in Porter and LaPorte counties in northern Indiana. On the Ohio, votes are being held in Dearborn, Switzerland, Ohio, Floyd, Clark and Warrick counties, as well as Vanderburgh County. 
Under Indiana's new river­boat gambling law, voters must give their approval before the gaming commission considers the license applications of casi­no corporations seeking to put boats in the water. 
The law authorizes five river­
boat licenses for northern 
Indiana communities and five 
along the Ohio River. The city 
of Gary, who residents 
approved land-based casinos 
in a non-binding referendum 
four years ago, was not 
required to hold a referendum 
to be eligible for the two licens­
es set aside for the Lake 
County city. 
All the counties that could 
host riverboat gambling voted 
overwhelmingly to repeal a 
state constitutional amend­
ment that effectively banned 
legal gambling. But indepen­
dent polls conducted in several 
communities gave no clear 
indication of how Tuesday's 
votes may go. 
B TOM RAUM Still, weeks of heavy pressure~ociated Press by the White House have failed WASHINGTON to produce many converts for 
President Clinton prodded the agreement to lift trade bar-business owners by satellite on riers among the United States, Monday "to be missionaries" Mexico and Canada. and help him win passage of White House vote counters the North American Free Trade privately concede they remain Agreement. about 50 votes short. 
Clinton acknowledged he was in an uphill fight but predicted Meanwhile Monday, Rep. he would win a Nov. 14 show-John Dingell, D-Mich., chair-down in the House. "But in man of the House Energy and order for it to be close, you all Commerce Committee and an have to push between now and important administration ally then," he said in an electronic on other issues, called on the "town hall" meeting sponsored president to withdraw the pact. 
h U s Ch b f "I regrettably will be com-Cby t erce . . am er o Pelled to cast my vote against 
omme ·
The session was beamed by NAFTA if it is submitted to the satellite to gatherings -Congress in its current form," attended mostly by small and Dingell said in a letter to medium-size business owners Clinton. and farmers -at more than Dingell suggested the pact 240 sites nationwide. and side agreements fail to 
QVC pressed to make decision on Paramount 
By SKIP WOLLENBERG  to invest a combined $1.8 bil­ 
Associated Press  lion in Viacom in the six weeks  
NEW YORK  since the original Paramount  
The pressure is on hostile  deal was announced.  
bidder QVC Network Inc. to  
improve its bid for Paramount  Paramount offers plenty of  
Communications Inc. or risk  what the architects of the com­ 
losing it to the moviemaker and  munications revolution are  
publisher's chosen partner,  looking for, with its moviemak­ 
Viacom Inc.  ing and TV production track  
QVC said Monday it was  record, its rich library of films  
studying Viacom's revised $10  and programs and its book  
billion offer for Paramount,  publishing operations.  
which essentially matched the  
$80 a share cash-and-stock bid  The company said today it  
QVC made more than a month  would be adding another jewel  
ago.  to its crown: Paranount  
Viacom offered $80 a share  announced it had agreed with  
for 51 percent of Paramount on  station owner Chris-Craft  
Monday, and QVC is planning  Industries Inc. to launch a fifth  
to start a similar offer by  broadcast television network in  
Wednesday.  early 1995.  
The new network will begin  
Analysts say Viacom's variety  with four hours of original pro­ 
of broadcast and cable assets  gramming over two nights  
and its international reach give  anchored by a new "Star Trek"  
it the edge if the companies are  show, the company said. It is to  
offering the same amount.  expand eventually to compete  
Dennis McAlpine, who has  against the four existing net­ 
been following the Paramount  works -ABC, CBS, NBC and  
fight for the investment firm  Fox.  
Josephthal Lyon & Ross, said  
QVC "is clearly under pressure  There have been rumors  
because if everything is equal,  periodically that Paramount,  
they are not going to get any­ which owns seven TV stations  
place."  and TV production facilities,  
was considering starting a  
Viacom owns the MTV,  broadcast TV network.  
Showtime and Nickelodeon  But the timing, in the midst  
cable networks. QVC's main  of the takeover battle, was con­ 
business is cable shopping but  sidered a surprise.  
it is led by onetime Paramount  
Pictures boss Barry Diller.  QVC's Diller oversaw the  
The video rental company  development of the Fox TV net­ 
Blockbuster Entertainment  work several years ago and is  
Corp. and regional phone com­ said to want to start another  
pany Nynex Corp. have agreed  network.  

adequately protect U.S. lab?r swarmi~~. over. the Mex~can and the environment. He said market hke fhes on a JUne calls for the pa~t's rene~otia-bug." . . . tion by Canada s new Liber.al T~e admimstratm~ has co~­Party government also throw Its plamed that compam~s haven t fate into doubt. done enough to help It sell the 
Clinton told his satellite audi-pact. "You have to be the ence that an assertion made by engine of confidence i~ our organized labor and Texas bil-future," he told the busmess lionaire Ross Perot that the leaders. "You all have to be agreement would endanger missionaries." 
U.S. jobs and shrink the U.S. Richard Lesher, presi~ent of economy "is ridiculous." the U.S. Chamber, said the 
"This is nuts, this idea that administration did feel that we can't compete and win,'' he business wasn't doing it's part said. "in the past. And business -in 
the past -felt the president He said rejection of the pact should be doing more. Both 
would make I"t harder for the sides are now pleased with d · "t " each other." 
Unite States to wm I s case 10r easing farm and other trade subsidies in world trade talks Lesher said in an interview long under way in Geneva. that momentum for the pact is 
Clinton also said defeat would growing, even if this doesn't bring Europe and Japan appear yet in the numbers. 
GM urged to settle suits 
By LEE LINDER Another GM lawyer, Lee Associated Press Schutzman, called the offer of PHILADELPHIA $1,000 certificates "a good res­
Lawyers for General Motors olution" to a case that could 
Corp. and owners of some 6 
generate $24 million in million pickups with side­
lawyers' fees. mounted gasoline tanks urged a 
But the Center for Auto 
federal judge today to approve 
Safety, the Washington-based a settlement offering $1,000 
advocacy group founded by
toward the purchase of a new Ralph Nader, said accepting the truck. 
settlement "would allow 
"It is a very fair, reasonable approximately 6 million trucks and adequate settlement in one 
with the highest fire-crash 
of the largest class actions ever death toll in automotive historybrought," said Diane Nast, an to remain on the highways." 
attorney for truck owners. 
If the settlement is approved,Lawyer James Shink, repre­
GM would distribute the 
senting GM, also called the set­coupons between Thanksgivingtlement a "fair, reasonable and and Christmas. They would be adequate resolution." 
effective for 15 months toward 
a new GM truck that costs over 
U.S. District Judge William 
$15,000. 
Yohn Jr. gave no indication on 
when he would rule on the pro­The certificates would not be 
posed settlement. 

accepted to repair an old GM The agreement would settle truck. In addition, the settle­
36 class-action lawsuits 
ment allows car owners to re­brought by disgruntled owners. 
tain their right to sue GM if General Motors first made the 
they are hurt in a crash or to $1,000 offer in July. 
participate in a recall. The center, which says it has 
The government, which could 
received 200 formal objectionsstill order a recall, contends the 
from truck owners unhappyside-saddle placement of the 
with the offer, has claimed that fuel tanks outside the trucks' 
"repairing or retrofitting the frame rail in the 1973 to 1987 defective trucks is technologi­models is a safety hazard that 
cally feasible and could be ac­
has caused fires that killed 
complished at a cost of no more more than 300 people. 
than $500 per vehicle." Shink said the two-wheel­
It wants GM to modify the set­drive and four-wheel-drive 
tlement offer to provide for a trucks are not dangerous. 
repair option. The settlement, meanwhile,'A side-mounted tank is not doesn't end GM's dispute with defective as alleged. They are 
the National Highway Safetysafe," he said. GM agreed to which re­
Administration, the settlement despite its belief 
quested the automaker to vol­that it would prevail in court, 
untarily recall the trucks and because "we don't want to have 
make necessary repairs. GM 
an adversary relationship with has refused. 
our customers," he said. 
MARKET ROUNDUP 
Dai~ market roundup 
1----+----t----:-,Ft-----t-3675 1--...J.---1!~!!¥\---1-----,r-.:--+----t-3625 ~~:.._-+_:._-\-,...tt=-=-----t------lt-3575 1----+--;__+----t-----t-3525 1----+----+-----t-----jt-3475 
L____J____..L-_____,____~ 3425 
811/93 9/1/93 10/1/93 11/1/93 12/1/93 
------------------------------------------------------------~ ~-­
VIEWPOINT 
pageS 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinnc:y 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredio:h McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoim Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accenr Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth Pho10 Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Obsc:rvcr is the independent newspaper published by <he s<udents of <he University of No!re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sporn Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcntaries, letters and Inside Columns presc:nr the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com· muniry and ro all ra.ders. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Acccm/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing EditorNiewpoim  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Rusincss Office  631-5313  Advenising  631-6900/8840  
Sporn  631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


ED MANIER 
In a sabbatical mood, I'm giving "A Left Jab" a rest in favor of a metaphor with fewer connotations of violence ('jab') and ideology ('left'). A hard slider is a breaking pitch thrown with as much velocity as a pitcher can combine with the requisite spin. Misdirection (irony in motion) is a central feature of a good slider. 
Overheard at a bookstore in the square, "Do you have Veritatis Splendor by John Paul II?" "You'll find compact discs in the annex." "Look under 'Pope'." "All we have for 1993 is Love and responsi­bility. Would there be a sec­ond author?" ·She 's touchy about the use of Her name.." 
Deprived of splendor, I thought it might be fun to re­view two new books: Simon Levay's The Sexual Brain. and James Q. Wilson's The Moral Sense. The juxtaposition ap­peals to the twelve year old deep inside me, still aspiring to the manly ideal of starting a fire with no matches. Nevertheless. two reviews require two columns and this one will review Wilson, setting the stage for a fuller discus­sion of LeVay's book. 
Simon LeVay is the leading American neuroanatomist whose spectacular photomicrographs of the pri­mate visual cortex helped put llubel and Wiesel on the plane to Stockholm. James Q. Wilson is a social psychologist and moraVpolitical theorist so eminent only a business school (UCLA) can afford his salary. 
Wilson argues that a huge body of evidence from evolu­tionary theory. primatology 
DOONESBURY 
I'M UP FOR 

AHOWARI? STeRNM?Wt?' 
510, YW!iENCJT 60/NG 70Be­
LJIJV8 THI5 .., 
"' 
HARD SLIDER 
this is why children in the same family are so different from each other. 
One consequence, music to Michael Novak's ears, is that human beings are not equal. Equity seems to require dis­parate rewards for disparate performances. Another, grati­fying to Alisdair Macintyre, is that Kant, Mill and Johnand brain science shows that revolution. Human beings differ in ge­Rawls are surely wrong. 

the facts about the origin and In those societies, Wilson ar­netic predispositions to suc­Justice can be understooddevelopment of moral reason­gues, typical, dominant males ceed in various activities, and neither in terms of a contract
ing support broadly Thomist are necessary for reproduc­parental, epigenetic nurtu­
binding equally situated, riskand Aristotelian conclusions tion but useless for nurturing rance of these predispositions 

averse individuals, nor in

about virtue. children. Following the neo­is itself highly variable. Genes terms of a calculus of person­LeVay studies the sexual dif­sociobiologist and economist do not determine human al or social utilities, nor inferentiation of the human ner­Robert Frank (Cornell), he nature, but they seem to make terms of a perfectly abstract vous system and has pub­sees good evolutionary reason a significant contribution to universal principles belovedlished cellular analyses of the to think males willing to assist the construction of micro­by professors of philosophy. 
brains of hetero-and gravely wounded human environments not shared by Justice. or fairness, is some­homosexual men, finding dif­beings in distress even while siblngs in the same family. 
thing worked out in naturalferences in hypothalamic cen­traveling among strangers in It is impossible for parents and historical settings varying ters regulating sexual behav­an alien land would gradually to create identical environ­with the means of production, ior which may underlie dispo­supplant kings and heroes ments for all their children. 

cultural organization, and

sitions to develop a variety of specializing in inter-and Sibling interaction increases 
gender. The human con­

intra-tribal competition and 
science, or moral sense, can

'The juxtaposition aggression. 
be reduced neither to OedipalThe Good Samaritan, queer 

'The human con-
appeals to the fears nor to schedules of
by the standards for male be­
science, or moral reward and punishment. 
twelve year old deep havior in pastoral societies, 
It is rooted in the natural

would be that most reliable sense, can be reduced 
inside me, still aspiring to and historical development of
companion, someone who 
neither to Oedipal fears varying expressions of the
would help you when there
the manly ideal of start­
virtues of sympathy, self con­

was absolutely nothing in it nor to schedules or 
trol and duty, first uniting

ing a fire with no match­for him. The sort of person reward or punishment.' 
parent and child, then kinfolk,you could trust with the kids.

es.' This conclusion has not been then, gradually and in part by gender roles and sexual orien­emphasized in the unstintingly the psychosocial variety of the aspiration, to wider groups of tations in various human envi­favorable comments accorded domestic environment, and 
families and finally to all ronments. Wilson's book by Irving since each sibling matures in humanity. Reading the two books to­Kristol. Michael Novak and a different cirde of friends Pastoral pomposity concern­gether produces a startling Alasdair Macintyre, but it is outside the home, but then ing the heroic virtue of the conclusion. In 1993, a biologi­integral to his argument. injects extra-familial judg­"solitary" male at the top is cally well informed Thomist or Wilson, unlike those ment into the geometry of vaporized by this biologically Aristotelian has excellent rea­Thomists and Aristotelians family relations, the non­and historically sophisticated sons for severe skepticism unfamiliar with evolutionary shared environments of indi­resuscitation of the concerning the "virtues" of theory and human behavioral viduals in the same nuclear Aristotelian-Thomist tradi­authoritarian male hierar­genetics, places human nature family vary widely in ways tion ........ to be concluded. chies characteristic of squarely in the context of that may muffle or, more Ed Manier is a professor of nomadic, pastoral cultures human genetic and epigenetic probably, amplify underlying philosophy. He is spending the antedating the agricultural variability. genetic variability. In a word, academic year at Harvard. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.~ 

IN A PReVIOUS IJ.JtU,Ht:S 
TV THINK ttl&
V&R.Y

LJF&, I WAS C/JM/350 CUTe ANGlE-.
CON'310131?&/?
INSPIRING,

HOWARJ? !i!CRNS FAR.1 aJR 
'suppose· that someone says
f}!<f}(A)N/NG I'U-. TCU­Kif?.

6RANIJMOTHeR! flfX)Pt& 
PUBllCI7Y.
HIM... 

that hi·s Iust is irre­
N&Rl3 PIKT 
PaJ<! ~ f 
sistible... Ask him whether he
"' 

would not c4ntrol his passion if... a galloWs were erected on which he would be hanged immediately after gratifying his lust.' 
Immanuel Kant 

ROBINSON'S RETURN RUINED 

• Ray Zellars (right) helped lift Notre Dame to its 11th straight win over USC. 
Story page 4 


Navy spooks Notre Dame on Halloween 
Second half explosion ends Irish nightmare 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN SportS Editor 
PHILADELPHIA 

The Notre Dame football played in the spirit of Halloween on Saturday, scaring its loyal fans with a not so Irish-like per­formance at Veterans Stadium. 
After falling behind 24-17 at halftime, Notre Dame exploded in the second half for 41 points and cruised to a 58-27 win. 
The first half quickened the heart rate of hoards of Irish fans as a potential No. 1 vs. No. 2 matchup against Florida State seemed in jeopardy. It was the first time the Irish had trailed at halftime since Penn State in 1991. 
But at halftime Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz let his seniors do the talking, and an inspired second half performance was the result. 
"Whenever we're in trouble I tell the seniors not to go out to the field until they're ready," said Holtz. 
When they did come out the Irish looked more like the second-ranked team in the nation. They knew they could run against Navy and returned to that game plan in the final two periods. 
Returner Clint Johnson took the open­ing kickoff to the Navy 37 yard line. and three plays later quarterback Kevin 
See WIN on page 2 

JOCK STRIP 

now, finally, it's Florida State 
W
PHILADELPHIA ,----------1 a t e r ­logged a n d weary after Notre Dame's win over Navy, Lou Holtz knew it was time to look Florida State in the eye. 
But after his team nearly got a black 
JASON KELLY eye from an historic 
Associate Spons Editor 

punching bag, you couldn't blame the coach for flinching a little. 
"They can do everything from top to bottom, they can run it and they can throw it," he said of the Seminoles. 
"I don't know anything about Florida State except they're No. 2 in scoring offense and No. 1 in defense." 
He also knows that they are the No. 1 team in the nation and the only obstacle between Notre Dame and the national championship. · 
By the time these pages clutter the din­ing hall floor, Holtz and his staff will probably know everything there is to know about the Seminoles and know 
See KELLY on page 2 



The Observer • FOOTBALL 1993 Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
Edwards makes his Marc 

By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
PHILADELPHIA 

It was just another normal week for Notre Dame freshman fullback Marc Edwards. Until Wednesday. That's when he found out he would start in 
place of the injured Ray Zellars against Navy. 
"They told me, I guess it was Wednesday," Edwards said. "Ray's knee was still bothering him, so I just tried to prepare in every way I could." 
Edwards is no stranger to the field. He has stepped into some substantial playing time early in his rookie season as a short-yardage baek and a substitute for Zellars. 
But when your name is on top of the depth chart, the responsibilities are a little heavier. 
"I was the starter today, so I had to take over and do the same things (Zellars) would have done," Edwards said. 
He did that and more, searing three touch­downs and rushing for 97 yards on 14 carries. 
Edwards displayed some powerful running and even some breakaway speed, which is an unusu­al asset on a 6-foot-2, 220 pound frame. 
"I didn't try to do anything speetaeular, I just wanted to get the job done," he said. 
Flashy freshmen Handy Kinder and Robert Farmer have overshadowed the steady Edwards for mueh of their rookie season. But together they form the nucleus of Notre Dame's backfield of the future. 
Against Navy, they showed a glimpse of what the future will be like. 
Kinder led the way with 108 yards on just ten carries and Farmer added 77 yards on six car­ries. 
But it was Edwards who stood Saturday. 

"I couldn't have been more pleased with the play of the three freshmen," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "I thought Marc Edwards just played a beautiful game. He played well without the ball and just did a yeoman's job stepping in for Zellars." 
Inside the ten yard line, the ball went almost immediately to Edwards, who scored from one, three and ten yards out. He also showed his breakaway ability with a 27 yard run in the third quarter. 
He kept another drive alive at the beginning of the fourth quarter with three consecutive runs, one for 18 yards and two for eight yards apiece. 
Edwards and the Irish didn't move the ball quite as well in the first half as they limped to the locker room trailing 24-17. Edwards finished the half with just 20 yards. 
"We weren't worried (at halftime). we just decided that we had to go out and play the way we're capable of playing," Edwards said. "Things really started clicking in the second half. Everything just seemed to come together." 
The offense exploded for 41 seeond half points to sink the Midshipmen. Edwards played a key role in that explosion, not just with the ball, but without it also, opening holes for his mates in the backfield. 
"Marc played a great game today," Kinder said. "When he wasn't running himself he was making some great blocks for us." 
That's how Edwards made his first impression with the coaches. Blocking. 
It's not glamourous. But it's important. 
"You have to take every aspeet of the game seriously," Edwards said. "It's great just to be playing, so any way I can help the team I'm happy to do it, whether it's bloeking or running the ball." 
He got plenty of ehances to run the ball on Saturday, and even more ehances to block for his teammates. 
Whatever his role, he proved that the Irish have more than one capable fullbaek. 
Edwards' success is a vindication of sorts. A controversial Mr. Football seleetion in Ohio a year ago, his success at Notre Dame has helped silence his detractors. 
"I don't think too much about high school, it won't do me any good here to reflect on that," Edwards said. "I think my actions and the team's actions speak for themselves. Everything is going great." 

SEASON CUMULATIVE AVERAGE: 
QUARTERBACKS 

McDougal was steady in poor conditions but he also made a few poor decisions 
RUNNING BACKS 

Kinder, Edwards , and Farmer made the future look bright on an otherwise bleak day 
RECEIVERS 

Mayes' injury hurt, but they remained steady as a group 
0-LINE 

Opened big holes for the backs against an overmatched Middie line 
D-LINE 

Didn't play up to capabilities, giving Navy's QB too much time to throw 
LINEBACKERS 
Steady, but not outstandng; 

recovered well from lackluster first 
half 
SECONDARY 

Missed assignments made Navy look like world-beaters in first half 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Returns adequate in rain, but kicking game left much to be desired 
COACHING 

Preparation was good enough to 
win; the real test awaits 
FINAL SCORE 

All that matters is that Notre Dame remains undefeated as it prepares for its biggest test of the season against Florida State. 
3.2584 

Win 

from page 1 McDougal hit Lake Dawson on 10 yard scoring strike. After holding Navy, the Irish took only two plays to take the lead on the ensuing possession. Freshman tailback Randy Kinder broke through the line and stopped 70 yards later in the endzone for a 31-24 Irish advantage. Robert Farmer added a touchdown on Notre Dame's next possession, and fol­lowing a Navy field goal, Jeff Burris pushed the Irish ahead 45-27 with a three yard scoring plunge. "We didn't show up in the first half," said Dawson. "We didn't play like we could. But the seniors basically told the team that we have too much at stake to let this game take it away from us." Fullback Marc Edwards raised the lead to 51-27 with his third touchdown of the game. And on the next possession, Navy quarterback Jim Kubiak's pass was tipped by receiver Damon Dixon into the arms of Bobby Taylor. The Irish safety waltzed untouched 31-yards to complete the scoring. The win gave Notre Dame the nation's longest winning streak to 16 games, and equaled the Irish record for consecutive road wins with 13. The Irish fell behind 10-3 after Dixon slipped behind Burris and scored on a 31 yard pass from Kubiak. Edwards' first touchdown tied the score, but 

The ObserverfT.J. Harris Irish tailback Lee Becton is sandwiched by a pair of Navy defenders. 
• Filling in for the injured Ray ZeUars, last year's Mr. Football in Ohio ran for 97 yards on 14 carries and scored three touch­downs to boost the Irish run­ning attack in his first career start. 
Navy's Brad Stramanak put the Midshipman ahead with a scoring plunge from a yard out. 
Edward's knoted the score with his second run from nine yards out, but a 53-yard pass from Kubiak to Jimmy Screen put the Irish behind 24-17 at the intermission. 
"In the second half we just picked up our play," said Aaron Taylor. "If we lost today we might as well be 0-9." 
The Irish are not, they are 9-0 and their running game has a great deal to do with it. Lee Becton and Kinder enjoyed 100-yard days, and Edwards and Farmer turned in their best perfor­mances of the season. 
Becton did not play in the second half but led Notre Dame with 128 yards on 21 carries. To go along with his three touchdowns Edwards had 97 yards and drew high praise from Holtz. 
"Marc Edwards played a sensational game," said the Irish coach. "He turned in a yeoman's effort today." 
McDougal returned to the starting role he relinquished against USC a week ear­lier due to injury. He finished with 170 yards on 9 of 15 passing. 
The win allows Holtz and the Irish to set their sights on the Seminoles, who will face a Notre Dame squad who has had two weeks to prepare. 
"We can think now about Florida State," said Taylor. "There is nobody in between us. We can focus on them. 
"We've got to have a solid week of practice and come in with a positive atti­tude," said linebacker Pete Bereich. 
Kelly 
from page 1 
how to stop them. 
"Florida State will be on our minds from now on," Holtz said after Saturday's game. 
It's a game that has been on everyone's mind all season. And Notre Dame's improbable rise to No. 2 has made it bigger than anyone expected in August. 
"We haven't been in a game of this magnitude for a long time," Holtz said. 
Five years to be exact. That's when the top-ranked Irish travelled to Los Angeles and neatly disposed of No. 2 USC on the way to the 1988 national championship. 
The road to the title passes through South Bend this sea­son. It's a cold path, but a familiar one. 
"I really wish the game was in Tallahassee," Holtz said. "When we played USC (in 1988) all the media was out in Los Angeles. It was great, we didn't even know we were playing a big game. For this game the media will be in (South Bend) early. It's going to be a circus." 
Holtz is going to let his play­ers escape the big top late this week. They will not practice Friday-Sunday and many of them will have a chance to go home for the first time since early August. 
"There is some discrepancy on the staff as to what we should do (with the open date)," Holtz said. "It may be right and it may be wrong, but it's the approach I've used. 
"We (the coaches) will be working. There will be plenty for us to get done." 
And there will be plenty for the players to get done when they return from their break. 
Holtz will make sure they're prepared. When the Irish take the field on November 13, he won't flinch. 

------~-----T~h-e_O_b-se-IT-er_•_F_O~O-T_B_AL---L-1--993---------~-------------------------P~--e-3--------,l 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 

SCORE BY QUARTERS  1 2 3  4  F  Young  2  2  4  1  
Notre Dame (9·0)  314 21 20 58  Wynn  3  0  3  0  
U.S. Naval Academy (4-4) 1014 3  0  27  Wooden  2  1  3  0  
Covington 1  2  3  0  
Berry  2  0  2  0  
QTR TEAM  PLAY  TIME  Tatum  2  0  2  0  
1  iliA  Bucchianeri 38 FG  12:38  Graham  1  1  2  0  
NO  Pendergast 32 FG  5:16  Cobbins  1  1  2  0  
NA  Dixon 31 pass from Kubiak  Flanigan  1  0  1  1  
(Bucchianeri kick)  B. Taylor  1  0  1  1  
2  NO  Edwards 3 run (Pendergast kick)  G rasmanis 1  0  1  1  
4:57  ATT YOSAVG TO  
NA  Stramanak 1 run (Bucchianeri kick)  Becton  20  178  8.9  1  
8:36  Burris  4  53  13.2  1  
NO  Edwards 10 run (Pendergast kick)  Zellars  8  32  4.0  
3:59  Failla  6  25  4.2  
NA  Screen 53 pass from Kubiak  Edwards 9  16  1.8  !Kinder  5  7  
(Bucchianeri kick)  1 :07  1.4  0  
3  NO  Dawson 44 pass from McDougai(Pendergast kick)  COMP  ATT  YOS  TO  
3:41  Failla  6  9  78  1  
NO  Kinder 70 run (Pendergast kick)  11 :20  Zellars  1  35  0  
NO  Farmer 9 run (Pendergast kick)  
4:51  NO  YOS  AVG  TO  
NA  Bucchianeri 34 FG  0:48  Miller  3  43  14.3  0  
4  NO  Burris 3 run (Pendergast kick)  Zellars  2  24  12.0  1  
13:27  Becton  1  35  35.0  0  
NO  Edwards 1 run (kick tailed)  Dawson  1  11  11.0  0  
6:51  
NO  Taylor 31 INT return (Pendergast kick)  TTLSAC  PBU  
6:35  Goheen  10 0 0  0  
Bereich  9 0 0  0  
TEAM STATISTICS  NO NAVY  Burris  9  0 0  0  
B. Taylor  8  0  0  0  
First Downs  30 15  Covington  7  0  0  1  
by rushing  24  2  Magee  6  0  0  0  
by passing  6 1 0  Knight  5  1  0  2  
by penalty  0  3  Gibson  3  0  0  0  
Total yardage  604321  Lane  100 0  0  
Offensive plays  79 53  Flanigan  1  0  1  0  
Avg. yards per play7.656.05  Wynn  1  0  1  0  
Rushing yards  426 64  Young  10  0  
Rushing plays  63 18  
Passing yards  178257  
Passes completed  10 24  
Passes attempted  16 35  
Passes intercepted  0  1  
Fumbles -tumbles lost  1 -00 -0  
Penalties -penalty yards  9 -780 -0  
3rd down conversions  5-94-15  
percentage  55.626.7  
ATT  YOS  AVG  TO  LG  
Becton  21  124  5.9  0  17  
Kinder  10  108 10.8  1  70  
Edwards 14  97  6.9  3  27  
Farmer  6  77  12.8  1  23  
Lytle  2  17  8.5  0  16  
COMP  ATT  YOS  TO  
McDougal  9  15  170  1  
Failla  1  1  8  0  
NO  YOS  AVG  TO  
Dawson  4  99  24.8  1  
Miller  2  31  15.5  0  
Mayes  1  14  14.0  0  
Becton  1  14  14.0  0  
McBride  1  12  12.0  0  
Farmer  1  8  8.0  0  
T  ATOT TL  
Goheen  4  1  5  0  
Bereich  3  2  5  0  
Lane  3  2  5  0  
Magee  2  3  5  0  

1  2  3  4  F  T  TLSAC PBU  
Southern Cal (4-4)  0  7  0  6  13  Goheen  10  0  0  0  
Notre Dame (8·0)  14  14  3  0  31  Bereich  9  0  0  0  
Burris  9  0  0  0  
B. Taylor  8  0  0  0  
OTR  TEAM PLAY  TIME  Covington  7  0  0  
NO  Becton 70 run  Magee  6  0  0  0  
(Pendergast kick)  14:05  Knight  5  0  2  
NO  Edwards 2 run  Gibson  3  0  0  0  
(Pendergast kick)  3:02  Lane  3  0  0  0  
2  NO  Burris 4 run  Flanigan  0  0  
(Pendergast kick)  7:22  Wynn  0  0  
SC  Strother 13 pass from Johnson  Young  10  1  0  
(Salmon kick)  2:19  ATT  YDS  AVG  TO  
NO  Zellars 29 pass from Failla  
(Pendergast kick)  0:46  Walters  14  58  4.1  0  
3  NO  Pendergast 43 FG  1:36  Brown  3  18  6.0  0  
4  SC  McWilliams 8 pass from Johnson  Fields  1  6  6.0  0  
(pass failed)  6:04  Strother  2  3  1.5  0  
Johnson  7  -16  -2.3  0  
TEAM STATISTICS  USC  NO  
COMP  ATT  YOS  TO  
First Downs  21  16  
by rushing  6  11  Johnson  29  46  269  2  
by passing  13  5  
by penalty  2  0  
Total yardage  338  418  NO  YOS  AVG  TO  
Offensive plays  73  66  
Avg. yards per play  4.6  6.3  Strother  9  71  7.9  
Rushing yards  69  305  Morton  6  109  18.2  0  
Rushing plays  27  56  Cashman  4  27  6.8  0  
Passing yards  269  113  McWilliams  3  25  8.3  1  
Passes completed  29  7  Banta  2  18  9.0  0  
Passes attempted  46  10  Allred  2  11  5.5  0  
Passes intercepted  1  0  Grace  2  7  3.5  0  
Fumbles -fumbles lost  0-0  1 -0  T  TL  FR  PBU  
Penalties -penalty yards  3-41  6-61  Kopp  10  0  0  0  
3rd down conversions  4-15  10-17  Holland  9  0  0  
percentage  26.7  58.8  McGinest  9  1  0  0  
4th down conversions  3-5  1-3  Caruthers  8  0  0  0  
percentage  60.0  33.3  Oliver  8  0  0  0  
Williams  6  1  0  0  
ATT  YOS  AVG  TO  Cunnigan  6  0  0  0  
Becton  20  178  8.9  Kenley  6  0  0  0  
Burris  4  53  13.2  1  Jones  5  1  0  0  
Zellars  8  32  4.0  0  Murrell  4  0  0  0  
Failla  6  25  4.2  0  Herpin  3  0  0  0  
Edwards  9  16  1.8  1  Sehorn  3  0  0  0  
Kinder  5  7  1.4  0  
COMP  ATT  YOS  TO  
Failla  6  9  78  1  
Zellars  35  0  
NO  YOS  AVG  TO  
Miller  3  43  14.3  0  
Zellars  2  24  12.0  
Becton  35  35.0  0  
Dawson  11  11.0  0  

page 4 The Observer • FOOTBALL 1993 Tuesday, November 2, 1993 

----31 13 fl:~ 
A new decade of dominance begins 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
It isn't a decade any more. Now, it is just a lot. 
Notre Dame's 31-13 win over USC made it eleven straight Irish wins over the Trojans and continued to reduce the grandeur of college football's greatest intersectional rivalry. 
In recent years, the game has turned into a nice contest between Notre Dame and ... the oppponent being either Purdue, Navy, Pitt and now, the Trojans. 
"We have to get back to being the type of team Notre Dame is. We did it before and we can do it again," said USC head coach John Robinson. "We have to mea­sure our progress by Notre Dame. And this is a good Notre Dame team. Seldom do you see a team as efficient as they were today." 
Older fans will babble about O.J. Simpson or Anthony Davis, but that was before current Notre Dame tailback Lee Becton was teething. All Becton knows is beating USC, or more specifically, running all over them. 
The junior tailback finished with 177 yards on 20 carries, the bulk of which came on a 70-yard touchdown run on the game's second play. 
Paul Failla started at quarterback in place of the injured Kevin McDougal, and in the second start of his career guided the Notre Dame offense to near perfection. lie connected on six of nine passes for 79 yards. 
The Irish were eight of eight on first down conversions in the opening half, scoring on all four of its first half posses­sions. 
"I felt we had an outstanding first half offensively," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "We dominated the line of scrimmage." 
Becton's run started the string of Irish scores. Freshman fullback Marc 
by Clint Johnson and 23 yard completion 31-7 with a 43-yard field goal near the The vaulted USC running attack wasEdward's had a 2-yard scoring run on from Failla to Mike Miller. end of the third period, proving to be the held to just 69 yards on the ground,Notre Dame's next possession, and Jeff Other than Strother's score the Irish only Notre Dame points of the half. forcing Johnson to pass. The juniorBurris followed with a one-yard touch­defense held the Trojans at bay during quarterback finished 29-46 for 269down the opening two quarters. Burris ended Johnson got the Trojan offense going yards and had one interception to goAfter USC scored on a 15 yard catch one USC threat by blocking a field goal. in the final period, as he repeatedly hit with his two scoring tosses. 
by fullback Deon Strother from quarter­The Notre Dame defense took com­receiver Johnnie Morton for big gains. A "They play intelligent defense. Theyback Rob Johnson, Notre Dame pushed mand of the game in the second half, as 22-yard grab by the Trojan wideout set don't give up a lot of big plays, they arethe score to 28-7 on a 29-yard scoring the Trojans went three and out on their up the only touchdown in the final two strong up front," said Hobinson. "Theycatch by Ray Zellars. The touchdown first three possessions. quarters, an eight yard catch by tight don't give you anything easy or make was set up by a 40-yard kickoff return Kevin Pendargast pushed the score to end Johnny McWilliams. any errors." 
,
, Taylor and Morton each rise to the challenge 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY caught passes of 16 and 41 Assistant Sports Editor yards to march the Trojans to the Iri~h 14 yard line. The drive Prior to Notre Dame's match­was e'nded, however, when up with Southern California, Taylor intercepted a pass the stage was set for the duel intended for Morton and 
between Trojan receiver returned it 47 yards to the Johnnie Morton and Irish cor­Southern Cal 48 yard line. nerback Bobby Taylor. "I thought we had some 
As USC quarterback Rob things in the middle for Johnson's favorite target. (Morton)," said USC head coaeh Morton had been the Trojans' John Robinson. "lie wasn't 
most dangerous weapon going to get an easy touch­throughout the season. He was down." averaging eight receptions for Although Morton was held 
120 yards and one touchdown slightly under his average with 
per game. lie had already set six receptions for 109 yards, five records this season for praise for both him and Taylor either Southern Cal or the PAC-was plentiful. 
10. "I think Morton is an excel­
Through seven games this lent receiver," said Irish head season he had caught at least coach Lou Holtz. "But I thought six passes in six games and Bobby Taylor did very, very received for at least 100 yards well. I think Bobby Taylor and in five games. Jeff Burris played as well as 
Knowing that USC head coach any DB's around." John Robinson preferred a run­"They're a very good passing ning attack to the passing team." said Irish inside line­
game, Morton trained hard in summer in order to improve his that either team will witness After being held without a backer Pete Bereich. "Bobby 
the off season to improve his speed. this season. catch in the third quarter, did a great job. He's one of the skills and increase his value in Taylor, who is clearly Notre Taylor dominated the duel Morton exploded for 82 yards best defensive backs in the the Trojan offense. As noted in Dame's top coverage man, was through the first half. He on three receptions in the country and I wouldn't trade last week's Sports Illustrated, challenged with the duty of allowed only two receptions for fourth. him for anyone in the world." 
he trained with the USC track shutting Morton down. 11 yards in the first quarter The match-up climaxed dur­"We knew we couldn't stop squad in the spring and with him totally," Taylor said. "We
The result was perhaps the and one reception for 16 yards ing USC's second drive of the James Lofton and world-class fiercest one-on-one match-up in the second. fourth quarter, when Morton just tried to hold him to a mini­sprinter Bryan Bridgewater this mum." 



., 
1 
, 
1 
~
ACCENT , , I 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 page9 
1 
~
Bringing the American dream to life • ~ 
Professor GalDitlow recor e ideas of society on the big screen 
T
By LARISSA HERCZEG ly renown film director. Galmilow decided to take mat­Accent Writer After college, she went to ters into her own hands, and New York City. Her intentions after applying to over eighty he American Dream, the were to translate the pieces of companies, she finally obtained notion that with luck, Russian Literature that were a job as an apprentice editor. timing, and a little inge-not yet available in English. With the skills she learned and nuity, anyone can move from A friend of hers suggested her natural ability, Galmilow the poor house to a mansion, they make a movie. Using local completed the work on the film Associate Professor Jill talent, a camera rented one day which was sold and run in the­Galmilow, in the Department of at a time, and filming in aters from New York to Los Communications and Theater, Spanish to appeal to a different Angeles. is a modern day example of the crowd, La Nueva Viva, The New After the success of her initial possibility of this legendary Life, was completed. Her production, Galmilow decided dream. involvement with the movie to remain in the editing indus­
When she graduated from the drastically changed Galmilow's try. She went to Hollywood, University of Wisconsin with a ambitions in life. where she had the opportunity degree in Russian Literature, During production of the to work on The Godfather and 
Galmilow never imaged she movie, funds ran out before any The Candidate. would become an international-editing could be finished. Eventually, Galmilow grew 
tired of working on films for others and decided she wanted to continue pursuing her own film-making career. For her it was the perfect time to be an independent filmmaker because of world events and the recent formation of the NEA. 
Galmilow has shared many of these events with the public in the form of her documentaries. Claiming she just, "stumbles across ideas," Galmilow has directed films covering topics ranging from the life of a woman conductor to the open­ing of Eastern Europe. Among her more renown films is Waiting for the Moon filmed in France, which tells the story of Gertrude Stein. Another suc­cessful effort was the film Antonia. 
Released in 1975, the movie was extremely popular. and played in over thirty cities, receiving an Academy Award nomination. Galmilow discov­ered this idea when Judy Collins telephoned asking if Galmilow would recording an interview between her and her formal piano teacher, Antonia Brico. Brico was the first female symphony conductor during the 1940's 

more recent film, which 
will be played in the 
nite later this year is Far From Poland. This movie covers with many new and important issues that arouse in the 1980's as a result of the Solidarity movement in Poland. 
Galmilow said this is a "tough film to watch," not just because of the subject matter, but also because of the revolutionary technique she employed. 
Departing from the tradition­al documentaries, "cinema verite," Galmilow created a film that demanded a class of its own. Galmilow was denied an entrance visa to Poland, and was forced to be especially cre­ative to produce the film. 
The final product was a radi­
cal form of documentary. con­
structed from shots taken in 
America, long phone calls, and 
a few shots of actual events in 
Poland. 

This challenge to traditional 
notions was not easy, Galmilow 
said. "I felt like I was re-invent­
ing the wheel." The end result 
was a film which Galmilow con­
tends is her favorite. "Far From 
Poland, was the most original. 
It entailed the biggest risk," she 
said. 

Although currently in the 
middle of a large film, 
Galmilow's past years have 
been focused on smaller pieces 
and her teaching position at 
Notre Dame. While Notre Dame 
does not present the 
hustle-bustle of New York, its 
nature and students more than 
make up for many missing ele­
ments for Galmilow. She teach­
es Intermediate and Advanced 
Film Making for the 
Department of Communications 
and Theater. COTH Chairman 
Jim Collins claims she has, 
"definitely enhanced the quality 
of student work." Among her 
finer qualities, Collins attributes 
her remarkable ability to relate 
with and critique her students, 
who have gone on to some of 
the best film schools in the 
country. 

Currently on leave of absence, 
Galmilow is excited about 
returning to Notre Dame. She 
believes Notre Dame enables 
~ 
her to juxtapose two of her favorite activities, teaching stu­dents and making films. 
Galmilow has done more than symbolize the American Dream, she has shared! new and revolutionary ideas with society. She has made a name for herself by telling the stories of others, an idea that excites her. "I like the idea of leaving pieces behind," she said. Galmilow quoted a line from Antonia. "It's a high right then, but when the last note is gone, it's disappeared. Vanished into thin air." 
Ironically, Galmilow need never deal with this disappoint­ment. Galmilow will always 
' It's a high right then, 
but when the last note is gone, it's disappeared. Vanished into thin air.' 
Antonia 

know that she has contributed to society in ways that will not be forgotten, be it by the issues her films raise, or her revolu­tionary style. Galmilow's great work will not easily vanished, but will endure to be appreciat­ed for years to come. 

page 10 The Observer· CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
• 
Myers to replace Bulls' Jordan 
Associated Press 

DEERFIELD, Ill. 
Journeyman guard Pete Myers will take Michael Jordan's spot in the starting lineup for the Chicago Bulls, 
coach  Phil  Jackson  said  
Monday.  
The  6-foot-6  Myers,  who  
played  for  Chicago,  San  

Antonio, Philadelphia and New York before spending the last two years in Italy, was not even expected to make the team when training camp opened. 
Myers, a sixth-round draft pick of Chicago's in 1986, is considered a defensive special­ist. He shot only 42 percent from the floor in his three-year NBA career. 
"I just have to stay focused on the things I can do on the floor, not trying to do the fancy things Michael could do," he said. 
The Bulls also announced that the injury to Scott Williams isn't as bad as originally thought. 
The 6-10 center, who aver­aged 5.9 points and 6.4 rebounds off the bench last season, tore his patellar tendon while stretching Friday. The Bulls feared he might be lost for the season, but tests showed the injury was less seri­ous than first thought. Trainer Chip Schaefer said Williams should be healthy enough to play in two to four weeks. 
The Bulls open defense of their third consecutive NBA title on Friday night at Charlotte. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
trolled the contest, but were unable to cash in on several scoring opportunities. 
The Monarchs jumped out to a 1-0 lead at the 18:20 mark in the first half when Milo Iniguez squeaked a shot past Bert Bader. The lead increased to 2-0 less than ten minutes later, when Geno Bowmen scored off an Emilio Romero pass at the 
27:36 mark. 
The Monarchs added an­other goal with 12:23 remain­ing in the first half. Devin Payton scored off of a Mike Moyer assist to give Old Dominion a 3-0 advantage. 
Tim Oates got the Irish on the board with only one tick left on the clock in the half, as he capitalized on a Monarch error to narrow the lead to 3-1. 

That was as close as Notre Dame was to get, however, as the Monarchs retook the three­goal lead just 9:04 into the sec­ond half. Iniguez again scored off a Raul Ovalle pass to give Old Dominion the victory. 
"We were the better team," continued Berticelli, who saw his team's five-game win streak snapped with the loss. "We played better, but we didn't win. We didn't put the ball in the back of the net." 
Notre Dame bounced back on Friday, however, as they downed Delaware 4-0, as fresh­man David Smith recorded four saves in his first full shutout of his career. 
Defender Dane Whitley notched what turned out to be the winning goal at the 36:40 mark, scoring the only goal of the half to give Notre Dame a 1­0 lead. 
The Irish added three goals in the second half to put the game out of reach for the Fighting Blue Hens. Oates gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead just 
11:02 into the second half. Junior Rick Christofer and freshman Chris Mathis were credited the assists on the play. 
Oates added another goal off a Chris Dean pass at the 66:24 mark to increase the lead to 3­
0. Dean finished the offensive barage with 7:47 to play in the game, scoring his first goal of the season off a breakaway to give the Irish the 4-0 victory. 
"We didn't play a great game against Delaware, but we did what it took to win," said midfielder Jason Fox, who is one of only four Notre Dame players to start all 18 games this season. 
The Irish defense held the Fighting Blue Hen offense to only seven shots on goal, hand­ing them their fourth straight loss and sixth consecutive game without a goal. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds tnust be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Typing 287-4082 
Professional Typing 
Dissertations, Term Papers 
Reasonable Rates 
2n-7406 
WOMEN'S ALTERATIONS. CALL 259-8684. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
Very Lost: A small. black leather bag with a shoulder strap, that con­tained a Nikon camera lens. as well as Instructions. Not really sure where it could be..• If you have seen 
II. please call Brian at 113363. Thanks! 
L........-~-1\NT_E_D_
__ ____JI 
GREEKS & CLUBS 
RAISE UP TO $1.000 IN JUST ONE WEEKI For your fraternity, sorority or club. Plus $1 ,000 for yourself! And a FREET-SHIRT just for calling. 1-800-932-Q528, ext. 75. 
CRUISE SHIPS HIRING -Earn up to $2000+/mo. Summer and Career employment available. No experi­ence necessary. For more informa­tion 1-206-634-Q468 ext. C5584 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Call us and find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH w~h America's 111 Spring Break company! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Jamaica, Panama. Daytona or Padre! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL (800)328-SAVE or (617)424-8222 
TRAVEL FREE! SPRING BREAK 
'941 CANCUN. JAMAICA, FLORI­
DA, S. PADRE! SELL RELIABLE 
PACKAGES! THE BEST COMMIS­
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH 
TOURS 1-800-426-nlO 
EARN UP TO $10/HOUR Motivated students needed for PIT marketing positions at your school. Flexible hrs. Call TODAYI1-800-950-1039 ext. 3065 
Babysitter wtd. for occas wkend & 
wknts. 232-5388 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell only 8 trips & you go FREEl Best trips & prices! Bahamas, Cancun. Jamaica. Panama City! Great Resume experi­encei1-80G-678-63861 
SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREEl! I Student Travel Services is now hiring cam­pus reps. Call @800-648-4849. 
AA CRUISE & TRAVEL JOBS. EARN $2500/MO +TRAVEL THE WORLD FREE! (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE. HAWAII, ASIA!) CRUISE LINES NOW HIRING FOR BUSY HOLIDAY, SPRING AND SUMMER SEASONS. GUARANTEED EMPLOYMENT! CALL (919)929­4398 EXT31 

EARN $2500 FREE TRIPS! Student Holidays, the nation's leader in Spring Break vacations. seeking enthusiastic, highly motivat­ed students and fraternities to be the Notre Dame reps. EARN HIGH­EST COMMISSIONS AND TRAVEL FREEl Cancunl Daytona Beach! CALL NOW 1-800-360-TRIPI 
BRETT AND SEANIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!I!I! 
NOWHIRING­WINGS.ETC. Smiling faces, servers, cooks, dish­washers, all shifts. Will train. Apply at our newest location: 6502 N. Grape Road. 
Wholesale Book Distribution seek­ing part-lime workers. Hours flexi­ble to meet your schedule. Call 232-8500. 
Lo~::,:::~ 
ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
Seeking rommate to share house. $250/mo. incl. all. 273-1640 ev. 
Lake Home for Rent. Sleeps 6, 20 Min from NO Stadium $200 a week­end 616-699-7137 
Unbelievable bargain! $320.00/mo., one bedroom apt.. VERY close to campus and Martin's, carport incl. 273-6304. 
NEED LODGING -GAMES OR ANY NO OCCASION-CALL 291­9011 
6 BEDROOM HOME & ROOMS NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED. 
1 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW OR NEXT FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE 

Spring Break! Plan Early -Save $30-50 & Get Best Rooms! Prices Increase 11/151 Bahamas Cruise 6 days inc!udes12 meals $2791 Panama City room w/ kitchen $1291 Cancun from Chicago $439. Jamaica $479. Padre $199, Key West $239, Daytona Room w/ Kitchen $14911-800-678-6386 
FOR SALE: organic comfed beef whole or half, raised in Noble County, Indiana and fed only pure com, pasture grass, mineral salt with Icelandic sea kelp for vitamins, and limestone-filtered well water. Custom aged and cut at Yoders in Shipshewana. and delivered to 
your door. $1.80 pound hanging 
weight, with $25 deposit. 291­
1797 ..... "your steak in the country• 
FOR SALE: MICROSOFTWORD 
5.1 FOR MACINTOSH. FACTORY SEALED. CALL 273-8519 TO MAKE AN OFFER. 
WHY PAY RETAIL? MAC MICE FOR SALE $20 STEVE X41644 
SNOW SKIS Rossignal75 203cm w/ Marker Bindings Call KJ @ 232­7838 
TICKETS 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ETS! 2 GAs for. FSU, and BC call: 
A. Raczkowski (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums with jobs -will pay big $$$! 
Need 2 GAs for any home game Call Tim at 273-1757 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR USC & FLA. ST. CALL BOB 232-5297. 
NEED 2 GA's FOR BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL COLLECT (908)221­6183. 
We will purchase at handsome price four seats together for the Florida State game. Pis. call (BOO) 457­0486. 
CA Alum paying top $ for FLA STATE GA's Pis call (916)558-6566 
92 ALUM DESPERA TEl I need 2 tix to FLORIDA ST $$$. 800-222-5546 ext. 555-5562. 
N.D. vs F.S.U. Tickets Call Frank or John 1-800-749-5975 Will trade DISNEY tickets 
Have GAs to USC, FSU & BC Call 232-7316 from 7-8 pm. 
I NEED 4 FSU & BC GA's call Beth @ X2615 
NEEDED: FSU TIX, ANY KIND $$$1!11 CALL TOM 254-9013 
My cousin Frankie is coming out. He needs one FSU student ticket. Call Joe Russo at 234-6306. 
FSU GA FOR SALE CALL JOHN AT (513)533-30231 WILL RETURN ALL CALLS 
$$$$$$ MUST HAVE FLORIDA STATE GA's. 272-7233 $$$$$$$ 
For Sale: GA's for all games. 2n­1659. 
I NEED FLA STATE GA'S!II CALL •• 232-5030 " 
R.T. Ticket S.B. to Boston. Leave 11/17, return 11/21. $200 or BO. Call271-1623. 
NEED 2 F. ST GA'S FOR RICH COUSINS $$$JIM 232-3807 
Notre Dame-FWU tickets wanted! Please call (407)438-3697 
FSUGA 40 yd In, row 24 NEED I SAY MORE? Tim @ 608-255-2175 
NEED 1 OR2 BOSTON COLLEGE TIX CALL 634-2856 Need BC Tickets! x2846 
2 FSU GA'S-TAKING BEST OFFER-JON 215-630-9329 
FSU STUD TIXS. BO BY NOV .5 CALL WADE -0789 
FLORIDA STATE STUD TIC 
FOR SALE 111 vs. 112 -it's worth every penny! Call Levell at 3305-!et's negotiate 
Need 2 GAs & 1 stud tix for any home game. Call Aaron @ 272­3418 
FOR SALE: 2 FSU tix Moira x1275 or Cella x1281 
Need two std tickets for Florida St. Will pay $100 per.lf interested, call 2n-4817 
Need FSU Stu. & GA Eric x1087 
FSU GA4Sale Call Kevin 310-444-9923 
Will PAY $100+ per FLOR ST. GA's. Call Dan X1694 
FSU STUD TICKET --50 YD. L!NE--<:all Allison 273-4193-best offer 
1 FSU Stud. Tik 4 Sale Make Offer Mike x4246 
NEEDED: 4 GA'S FOR PERSONAL USE ONLY. ASK FOR BOB 271­9540, 232-3511. 
Will Trade 1or2 BC + 1USC STUD and/or cash for 1FSU: any combo Iii' sis needs a ticket:273-4822 
Interested in FSU tickets?? 
How about two FSU for $3? -for a raffle ticket. Each ticket earns the bearer a chance to win two FSU tix. 
Tickets are available thru Sophomore Class Council Dorm Representatives. 
Drawing is Nov. 8 at La Casa de Amistad. 
NEED 2 FLA. ST. STUDS. IIIII CALL MIKE@ 271-1706 #11#######11################# 
I STILL HAVE AN FSU GAl CALL MEG AT 2773 WITH BEST OFFER. 
FOR SALE 
2 FSU GA'S 
CALL 634-3554 AND LEAVE MESSAGE. .. 

1 FSU GA 4SALE. Best offer by 
Nov. 7. Mike 219-634-1187 
1 FSU STUD FOR SALE 
CALL X4071 WI OFFER 
NEED 2 BC GA'S CALL JIM 4022 
NEED 4TX TO FS, 233-2651 
Needed: 3 FSU and 1 BC Tix Student or GA call Kathleen x4241 
I NEED FSU Studs 
Kevin x0542 
4 Fla. St. Stud nx for sal~st offer for one or all. Call x4436. 
2 Sr. FSU & BC tix 4 sale 232-4112 Uz BO 
I need 4 STUD Tix for BC game! Please call x12601 
1 Stud. Ticket 4 Sale--Best Offer Call Christy x2966. 
Florida State stud. ticket for sale call Julie x3948 
NEED 2 BC G.A. CALLJIM x1786 
FOR SALE 2 FSU, 2 BC GA'S. 273-9838 
FLORIDA STATE STUDENT TICK­ET FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. CALL DOUG AT 234-6306. 
FLO ST GA 2 pairs $1600/pair 634­2193 
2 MARRIED STU TICS FOR SALE FSU/BC CALL 273-5124 AFTER 5 
FSU Sen. Stud. Tck for sale.Leave name, #, offer. 273-5909-Pete. 
I NEED MONEY (and I've already posed for calen­dars) FSU STU. TIX FOR SALE B/0 BY 11/5 ..... CALL STEVE@41644 
2 FLA ST TCKTS ROW3 BEST OFFER CALL TODD W (513)n1­5871 AFTER 8PM 
Akron. Ohio fan needs 2 FSU tick­ets. Call collect 216-633-1072, Francis, after 9pm please. 
BOSTON COLLEGE 4 Sale 2 GA's, $175/offer 2n-8o17 
NEED FSU-ND TIX 214/991-0889 (MARK) 
2 FSU ST TIX 4 SALE 
X2343 LEAVE BEST OFFER NO I FSU STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE! CALL X3506. 
Must sell 2 Fla. State GAs. Will call back best offer. Call Brian@ 273-4865 
Yeahlll FSU tix 4 sale. GA's & stud Call Tom@254-9068 
NEED 1 FSU Stu Tik x4097 
""'"FLORIDA STATE"'""' STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE call now--supplies limited call JAMIE at x1778 make me a good offer, and it is yours!!! 
Need 4 Stu. Tix. for BC Call Colleen x42785 
Will trade 2 FSU stud tix, next to each other. w/ male/female id's for: 
1. 2 roundtrip airfare outside N. Amer. for X-mas break. OR 2. reli­able car. CALL 2289 
I NEED FLORIDA ST. & BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S OR STD.272-6306 
PERSONAL 
Adoption: Doctor and professor will make dreams for your baby come true. Fulltime parenting. Best of the city; summer by the beach: Your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fire­place in winter. and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect (212)369-2597 
"JO'C-Happy Firstlll Tweet. "Love from Spain, Mare.' 
BRETT IS SOOOO GOOOOOODI!I SEAN IS NOT BAD. HE IS GOOD. 
No Tum On Red. 
FREE DAVE McMAHON 
JENNIFER B.-HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
TO THE BEST! LOVE FROM YOUR 3 FAVORITE GUYS, 
NICHOLAS. A.J. AND JACK. 
JENNIFER B. HAPPY BIRTHDAY! HAVE A GREAT DAY! LOVE MOM. DAD AND THE WHOLE GANG 
I NEED A RIDE TO BSU (MUNCIE) THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY FOR GAS. 
The SEAGULLS have landed. Stay tuned this week for more infor­mation concerning everybody's favorite ocean-going birds. Welcome home guys. 
MATTMEKO, WILL YOU GO TO MY SYR? B-DAYROSE 

-~-~---------------~---------~----~---­
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Swedes advance at French Open 
By SALVATORE ZANCA The $2.1 million tournament Associated Press has a top field. Nineteen of the world's top 20 players are en­
PARIS tered in the 48-man draw. 
Henri Leconte, in yet another Wimbledon and U.S. Open comeback attempt, rallied to winner Pete Sampras and Aus­beat fellow Frenchman Thierry tralian Open champion Jim Champion, 6-7 (7 -9), 7-5, 6-1 Courier are the top seeds. Boris Monday in the first round of the Becker is third-seeded and Paris Open. Michael Stich fourth. 
Leconte was two points from In first-round matches, three losing then won nine of the last Swedes won. Jonas Svensson 10 games to overcome Cham­defeated Marc Goellner of Ger­pion. "I was making all the er­many 7-6 (7-1), 6-4; Magnus rors. I was really tense," Larsson beat Carlos Costa of Leconte said. "Then I got loose Spain 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 6-2, and in the third set.' Magnus Gustafsson topped 
On the occasion of its 25th year of publication, Religion and Literature presents 
Rev. John Dunne, c.s.c. 
Thejohn A O'Brien Professor ofTheology, author of 
TheSearr:h fOr Gal in Time and Memory and Time and Myth, lecturing on his most recent book, low~ Mind­
"Contemplation: The Missing Dimension" 
Wednesday, November 3 3:30p.m. Morris Inn Banquet Room 
Reception Following 

JUST SAY YES! 
An upbeat program of music and comedy 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1993 "THE HUDDLE" 7 P.M. -9 P.M. 
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING: ACOUSTIC CAFE 
Jrjic1asproducliort<; 
------------~---------------------., 


IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:_QO p.m. , 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
ree Delivery • 271~1177 
Wayne Ferreira of South Africa 7-6 (7-1), 6-1. 
Three Russians also won. An­drei Olhovskiy downed French­man Rodolphe Gilbert 7-6 (9-7), 6-7 (3-7). 6-0; Andrei Chesnokov topped Jakob Hlasek of Switzerland 7-6 (7-4), 6-3, and Andrei Cherkasov defeated Henrik Holm of Sweden 6-3, 6-3. 
Also, Amos Mansdorf of Israel, the 1988 champion, beat Marcos Ondruska of South Africa 4-6, 6-4, 6-1; Malivai Washington downed Brett Steven of New Zealand 7-5, 6-3, and Olivier Delaitre of France beat Richey Reneberg 6-4, 6-4. 
Courier meets Gustafsson and Becker plays Olhovskiy on Tuesday. 
Leconte led France to the Davis Cup over the United States in the 1991 final but has not played up to that form since. He has been plagued by back injuries and had a disc problem in the France loss to India in the quarterfinals in July. 
He has gotten past the second round of only two tournaments this year -at a grass court event at Halle, Germany, that he won and to the quarterfinals at Wimbledon. 
Leconte, ranked No. 84, need­
ed a wild card to enter the 
main draw in this tournament. 
Champion, ranked No. 237, had 
to make it through the 
qualifications. 
Leconte lost his service in the 
eighth game on three double 
faults and an unforced volley 
error. Then he evened it in the 
next game with brilliant shot­
making. 

In the tiebreaker, he had a set point at 7-6 but lost it with a forehand into the net. 
~----------------------------------------------------~------------~--------------­
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 

~~----------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------­

Bengals to decide on Sunday's quarterback 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI 
The Cincinnati Bengals have a week off to think and mend, so coach Dave Shula won't say until next week whether injured starter David Klingler or backup Jay Schroeder will start Nov. 7 against Pittsburgh. 
The Bengals (0-7) have a bye this week, and the resulting light practice schedule. It gives Klingler more time to heal his bruised lower back, which was aggravated when Cleveland linebacker Clay Matthews sacked him during the Oct. 17 loss to the Browns. 
Schroeder, the former Wash­ington and Los Angeles Raiders quarterback who signed as a free agent with the Bengals during the off-season, started Sunday at Houston. lie revived the Bengals' offense somewhat, but the bottom line was still the same: another loss. 
Shula was noncommittal Tuesday when asked who the starter will be for the Nov. 7 home game against the Steelers. Shula said only that he plans to announce his deci­sion on Monday. 
"Klingler, right now, isn't healthy enough to play," Shula said. "lf we had a game this week, I don't know if he would 
be able to play. 
"Jay did some good things in the ballgame." 
Schroeder completed 17 of 31 passes, including one touch­down. He led the offense to a 348-yard day, 98 yards better than its average this season. 
But he dropped a ball for a fumble early in the fourth quar­ter on Houston's 8-yard line while the Bengals were driving for a touchdown that could have erased the Oilers' 14-12 lead at that point. Schroeder also overthrew wide-open receiver Wesley Carroll in the opening drive of the second half on what could have been a 55­yard scoring pass with the Bengals then leading, 9-7. 
The Bengals blew a 12-7 lead and the Oilers ran off 21 con­secutive points for a 28-12 vic­tory. 
The Bengals plan practices on Wednesday and Thursday. Shula said the team will con­centrate mostly on practicing fundamental plays. 
If Klingler is not practicing by next Wednesday, Schroeder "" would probably start against ~ Pittsburgh. ·~ 

~ 

Volleyball 
continued from page 16 
its west coast swing, losing two of three, both to ranked oppo­nents. 
The roadtrip started on an ominous note, as the Irish bare­ly escaped being ambushed by a determined Northern Arizona team, rallying from an 8-6 deficit in the fifth game to win 10-15, 15-12, 15-7, 13-15, 15­12. 
Stark proved to be the cata­lyst for the Irish, as the senior from Scottsdale, AZ made the trip a homecoming success, hit­ting 28 kills for a .350 per­centage while adding 14 digs, and 10 blocks for her second triple-double of the season. 
However, beating the Lady Jacks turned out to be the high­light of the trip, as the Irish dropped their first back to back matches of the season at Arizona State and Arizona. 
Against the Sun Devils, Notre Dame's nine match winning streak came to a halt, as ASU prevailed 15-10, 15-2, 9-15, 15-10. 
All-American Christine Garner proved to be the differ­ence in the contest, as the sophomore outside hitter dom­inated all areas, hitting for 28 kills with a .345 percentage while compiling 21 digs. 
"We don't have a hitter like Christine Garner that can get a good swing off a bad set," stat­ed Brown. "What we do have is a balanced attack and a lot of people that can do great things if they play within the system." 
Brown's system starts with fundamentals, and it was there that the breakdown occured. Notre Dame had 16 service errors to only two aces, while hitting just .182. The one area that did not falter was defense, as the Irish amassed 112 digs, led by 31 from Peters. 
Notre Dame's swing west ended on a down note, as Arizona pounded the Irish 16­14, 15-6, 15-9. The Wildcats used a well balanced attack, in­cluding four players with dou­ble ligures in kills, while also taking advantage of numerous Irish errors. 
Notre Dame hit a season-low .044, with 31 errors to only 33 kills. Only Stark reached dou­ble ligures for the Irish with 1 0 kills, while Birkner keyed the defense with 13 digs. 
Luckily for the Irish, return­ing to the midwest against con­ference opponents proved to be the cure in abbreviating the losing streak. Tonight, the Irish look to improve on their MCC record by hosting Loyola at 7:30 in the J.A.C.C. 

P R I :\' C I P L E S of S 0 U :\' D R E T I R E ,\\ E :\' T I :\' \' EST I :\' G 

T
hink about supporting yourselffor twenty-five, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, you have one valuable asset in your favor. Time. 
Time to take advantage oftax-deferral. Time for your money to grow. 
But starting early is key. Consider this: ifyou begin saving just $wo a month at age thirty, you can accumulate $154,031* by the time you reach age sixty-five. Wait tenyears and you'd need to set aside $211 a month to reach the same goal. 


At TIAA-CREF, we not only under­stand the value ofstarting early, we can help make it possible-with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvestment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research are already enrolled in America's largest retirement system. Find out how easy it is to join them. Call today and learn how simple it is to put yourself through retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. 
Stllrt plRnningyourfUture. CRIJ our EnroUment Hotline 1 800 842-2888. 
75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:M 


•AJJuming an inftruf raft of 6.50% crtdi!tdto TIAA Rtfimrunf Annuiliu. Tbi.r raft i.r u.uho!tly fO<bow fbt pmwr anJtfftcf of compounoin.q. Lowtr or bigbtr rofu wufJ proJurt vtry Jif/mnf rtJuitJ. CREF <trf</u:afuarc Ji.rfnbuftd by TIAA-CREF /nJiviJUil! anJ !nJfilufwnal Strvicu. 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 13 
Perles not counting Spartans out ofthe Big Ten race 

By JUDY DAUBENMIER 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Three strikes and you're out, not two, is how Michigan State coach George Perles figures this year's Big Ten race. 
Perles on Monday said it was a "lousy question" to suggest that the Spartans' two Big Ten losses mean the team has to set its sights on a bowl other than the Rose Bowl. 
"I can't answer your question because it's a poor question because it isn't a fact, what you stated," he said when asked about Michigan State possibly missing a trip to Pasadena because of Saturday's 10-0 loss at Indiana. 
Perles traditionally refuses to speculate about the conference race, saying he doesn't "play what-ifs." And he refused to say what he has told the team about their chances for post­season play. 
"I just continue to work at our game and see what happens," he said. 
But he conceded Michigan State (4-3 overall, 2-2 in the Big 
Ten) can't afford many more losses. "We understand that we used up another strike," he said. 
Defensive end Juan Hammonds said the Indiana game was a missed opportuni­ty. 
"We feel like we let one get away from us. We feel like that is one we should have won," he said. 
Indiana's defense lived up to its billing as tops in the Big Ten, Perles said. The Hoosiers limited Michigan State to 41 yards on the ground and 161 yards of total offense while shutting out the Spartans. 
Perles said the play of the game was the 24-yard run by Indiana punter Jim DiGuilio after a high snap. That kept alive a drive that resulted in the game's only touchdown-a 17­yard run by tailback Jermaine Chaney in the second quarter. 
Michigan State will be looking for its fifth straight home win when it hosts Northwestern Saturday. Perles said he also will be looking for some coop­eration from the fans in staying off the field. 
Spartan fans rushed the field near the end of the Iowa game, resulting in a penalty. Perles said fans were lucky that didn't result in the same kind of disas­ter as at Wisconsin Saturday when at least 69 people were injured as fans poured out of the stands and trampled those in front of them. 
"It gets pretty rough out there. If somebody would lose their footing, it could be a nasty situation," he said. 
Statistically speaking, Michigan State closes out the rest of the season with an easi­er schedule than the other Big Ten teams with two or fewer conference losses. Michigan State closes with four teams that have a combined record of 15-16 overall and 6-13 in the Big Ten. That's a league win­ning percentage of just .315. Wisconsin has the toughest road, playing teams with a combined 16-7 overall record and a 11-3 conference mark. That amounts to a . 786 confer­ence mark for its three remain­ing opponents. 
lAiling Michigan falls out of Top 25 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

When the 1993 football sea­son started, Michigan has a lot to play for. 
The Wolverines were seeking a record sixth consecutive Big Ten championship, a record third straight trip to the Rose Bowl and a shot at a national championship. 
Now after eight games, Michigan (4-4, 2-3 Big Ten) would be satisfied with any bowl bid. 
"We're playing for ourselves right now, not in a selfish man­ner but for Michigan football," coach Gary Moeller said Monday at his weekly news conference. "This is an impor­tant time to decide who we are and what we are going to do." 
If the Wolverines are to play in a postseason bowl game, they must win two of their remaining three games. Moeller said he is unsure Michigan deserves such recognition. 
"We have to earn the right to go to a bowl game," Moeller said two days after Michigan's 13-10 loss to Wisconsin. "No one gives that to you. There's no law that says you have to go to a bowl game. You have to earn it." 
The loss dropped then-No. 24 Michigan out of the Top 25 while vaulting Wisconsin (7-1, 4-1) from No. 21 to No. 15. 
If Michigan is to earn a bowl bid, it will need to get healthy. 
The Wolverines have lost sever­al inside linebackers to injuries this year and starters Steve Morrison and Bobby Powers are questionable for Saturday's game against Purdue. 
Tailback Tyrone Wheatley, who missed the Wisconsin game with a shoulder injury, might return this weekend. 
"If he can make a positive contribution, he'll play," Moeller said. 
Even if Wheatley is healthy, Moeller said he needs improve­ment from his offensive line. Michigan's vaunted 'running at­tack has struggled against Big Ten competition thus far and center Marc Milia probably will miss Saturday's game with a neck injury. 
Barker out indefinitely after spraining his left shoulder 
Associated Press 

TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 
Alabama coach Gene Stallings said Monday he doesn't expect that injured quarterback Jay Barker will be able to play this weekend. 
Barker suffered a sprained left (non-throwing) shoulder in the Oct. 23 victory over Mississippi and sat out last week's 40-0 rout of Southern Mississippi. 
"My gut feeling says no," Stallings replied when asked at his weekly news conference whether Barker could play Saturday when No. 5 Alabama plays host to LSU. "But there 
Career and Volunteer 
the 

Options With 
not 

Nonprofit Organizations 
for profit 
The decision, the jobs, the challenges, the rewards. 
sector 
Wednesday, November 3rd 
arts humanities 

4:00 --5:30 p.m.
civic & public groups community services 
The Center For Social Concerns 
education environmental health care/hospitals religion social services 
Mary Ann Roemer, The Center For Social Concerns 
etc. 

Judy Goebel, Career and Placement Services 

again, I'm not a trainer." 
Stallings said Barker was con­tinuing to recover quicker than expected and would even return to the practice field on Monday to do some throwing. 
"We're not going to put the pads on him," the coach said. "The thing that concerns us and talking to the trainer this morning is that he doesn't think (Barker) can take a good lick on that shoulder right now. "I'm not going to play him until he's ready to play. But he's a little ahead of schedule." 
If Barker can't play, sopho­more Brian Burgdorf will get another start. 
Two other injured players, 
offensive lineman Jon Stevenson and safety Chris Donnelly, will return to practice this week, Stallings said, adding that the Tide came out of the Southern Miss game without any serious injuries. 
The Crimson Tide (7-0-1 over­all, 4-0-1 in the Southeastern Conference) already has clinched the Western Division title with three games remain­ing. Alabama will meet the Eastern Division winner, either Tennessee or Florida, in the league championship game Dec. 4 at Birmingham. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
.-' 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
Seniors seek success in finaln1atch at SMC 
Ticket books returned after confiscation Observer StaiT Report  
Notre Dame Director o Ticketing and Marketing Bill Scholl announced yesterday that those students who had their football ticket booklets confiscated at the Notre Dame­Southern California game two weekends ago will be able to reclaim those booklets this week at the Joyce ACC ticket office. Well over 100 booklets were taken by ushers working the gates that day as the University attempted to crack down on illegal ticket sales. "Typically, we confiscate and do not return tickets which are used by non-students," Scholl said. "But in light of how big a game this is we decided to return them to the students." Scholl also said that illegal use of tickets has not been a problem in the past, but the increased number of illegally transferred tickets at the USC game proves there is a prob­lem.  

By CHERYL GILLilAND 
Spom Writer 

After travelling to Philadelphia over fall break, the Saint Mary's College volley­ball team will be back in action on their home court tonight at 7 
p.m. as they take on Goshen College for their home finale. 
The Belles were victorious in the four games they played against division III schools in the Philadelphia area over fall break. Head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek was pleased with the team's success over fall break and is optimistic about tonight's game. 
"Our spirits are real up after our successful break," Schroeder-Biek said. "Everyone got good playing time in, and we are very excited for this game." 
The team is also in good spir­its about tonight's game, which is parent's night and the last home game of the season. 
"Going undefeated over break really boosted our confidence," said sophomore Ann Lawerence. "I think we're going to come in and be really tough against Goshen." 
Schroeder-Biek mentioned that she is concerned about being rested up and ready to go after playing four games and travelling so much over fall break. 
"We were a little down in the middle of the season, but we've come together in the end; espe­cially after winning over October break." said Lawerence. 
Senior Erica Freitag agreed, saying that the travelling throughout the season really made the team closer. 
Last year, the Belles, who are currently 19-9, defeated Goshen College in tight games. 
Schroeder-Biek noted that Goshen is a very scrappy team that can chase the ball. "They are definitely a team that we can't sit back on," she com­mented. 
Freitag also added that Goshen can pick up a lot of things and that the Belles need to play hard and not give up. 
"I'm upset that this is my last home game and my last year, but I'm looking forward to play­ing," said Freitag. "I think that we have a really good chance of winning." 


No. 3 Buckeyes prepare for the Badgers 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS 
Coach John Cooper says he knows his third-ranked Ohio State Buckeyes are better than No.15 Wisconsin going into their matchup Saturday. 
It's just a question of proving it. 
Asked at his weekly news con­ference if he felt his team was better than the Badgers, Cooper said: "I think we are, sure. But that means you've still got to play. We can't let somebody be more mentally prepared than we are. We've got to be focused and we've got to be emotional. And I think we will be." 
A year ago, a Wisconsin team that finished 5-6 shocked Ohio State 20-16. That setback fol­lowed on the heels of the Buckeyes' 35-12 thumping of No.8 Syracuse. Fans called for Cooper to be fired. 
When the Buckeyes lost again a week later, 18-16 to Illinois, the criticism reached a fever pitch. 
But Cooper and Ohio State have gone 13-1-1 since. 
This time around, Wisconsin is 7-1 overall and 4-1 in the Big Ten, tied for second with Illinois and Indiana. An Ohio State victory would eliminate one more pursuer, just as Saturday's 24-6 victory over then-No.12 Penn State knocked the Nittany Lions out of the Rose Bowl picture. 
"I thought we were better than them. I told you that last week," Cooper told a reporter. "I thought we had a better foot­ball team than Penn State. Now that doesn't mean you're going to go out and win the game." 
Ohio State is 8-0 on the year and 5-0 in the Big Ten. Cooper said Ohio State's ability to con­centrate on the opponent at hand has been the difference this season. 
"We got to worry this week about Wisconsin only, don't worry about nothing else," he said. 
"We haven't been 8-0 in a long time," said offensive line­man Jason Winrow. "Words can't express what that means. It'll be even sweeter next week when we're 9-0." 
After Wisconsin, the Buckeyes play Indiana and then Michigan in the conference fi­nale. 
The Badgers beat Michigan 13-10 at home Saturday. After the game, 12,000 spectators swarmed the field and fences at the foot of the stands gave way. Seventy-five people were in­jured in the crush, 11 people were hospitalized. 
Cooper said he didn't think the Wisconsin players, who helped remove some of the injured stu­dents, would be traumatized by what happened. Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez said 


HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY 
LINDA 

Love _.. Mom, Dad, and the Gang 
"We have five seniors, and I know that they want to go out as winners," commented Lawerence. "We all have a 
Monday that some players had met with counselors on Sunday. "On other hand, you can turn that right around and say they're going to dedicate this game to those people," he said. 
Thousands of Ohio State fans also streamed onto the field af­ter the victory over Penn State. Fans tried to tear down the goalposts, but state troopers subdued them with a chemical spray. 
Cooper said the excitement of Ohio State fans pleased him. ''I'm glad we're good enough to get 'em excited," he said. 
positive attitude and we had a really good practice. We all want to end remembering that we did well this season." 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
j\h£n0~ MUSIQVE 
Concert 
Schola Musicorum 
Alexander Blachly, Calvin Bower, Daniel Stowe, Lewis Coleman 
with organist 
Gail Walton 
GREGORIAN CHANT & Organ works by Girolamo Frescobaldi (1583-1643) 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
10:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Hearl Admission free; open to the public 
Tired of getting homework1 Then give some! 
N.D. and S.M.C. Seniors: 
Be teachers in the Southeastern United States! 
Informational Meeting: 
•Thursday, November4 at 6:30pm 
•Meet in the Notre Dame Room (on the Second floor ofLaFortune) 
If you are unable to attend or have any questions, please contact either Fr. Tim Scully, CSC (1-7052) or Sean McGraw (257-9524). 
r--------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 
SPELUNKER 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
The Observer • TODAY 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
P. PER9:ll'-\ II= I 1-lr._O 9\(jJLO Ef R£fLE)(~5 LIKE 
~t'E H?.O\<\ '(001«3, ID ~ 
\'Rt:DP..TO~S GLAD ~R 111£ 1~5\ OE \WS Ol'roRt\JNITI 1b OW~ 11005£! IMPRCllf'C T\-\EM. 
DAVE KELLETT 



merchant's unit colonists1 First shepherd 26 Plant plot 44 Atlantique, e.g. 
.5-buster 
(quartz 27 Mammoth, for 45 Previous prefix one 46 Attorneys,
quarrier?) 
collectively9 Italian poet 28 "The -ofSt. 
47 Saratoga, e.g. 
Torquato-Mark": Keats so Food for stage 
14 Colorful 31 Statuette for a hogs and hags? 
Surrealist star 54 Showy parrot 
15 Way yonder 34Rate of 55 What watch 16 Hit song of 1948 progress watchers watch 
17 "Cogito,­
35 Top man in a 

56 Fabric fuzz sum": bakery? 
57 Esteem highly Descartes 36Ghostly sa Lough of N.
18 Couch 
champions of 

Ireland19 Creator of Pooh yore? 
59 Just more than 39 Baikal or and Roo never20 Ahab's favorite Titicaca
etchings? 60 Feast at which 40 Belligerent matzoh is served
23 Decimal-system base 
Olympian 61 Precious 24-Up 41 Part of a springe 62 Eosin user (excited) 42 Have creditors 
DOWN 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Accomplished 

2 Vt. granite center 
3City NWof Chicago 4Symbol of 
courage 5 Gave a lot of lip &Underway 7 Human rubbish 8 Disadvantages 9 Popular 
Ground-meat 
treat
10 Smoothly mobile 37 Clara or Monica 38 Motionless 


26 Commanded 27 Baltes 28 Resound 29 Old-timers 30Gaelic 31 Capital near the 
Skagerrak 32 Mrs. Warren's 
creator 33 Encrust 34 Foretold 35 Stravinsky 

43 "Jeopardy!" 49 Autumn bloom given 50 Aesop's 44 Novelist who also-ran sends letters? 51 Biting 
45 Flabbergast 52 Very urgent 
46 Swahili boss 53 Oafish one 
47 Lustrous 54 Brit. legislators 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Don't pass up an opportunity to embarrass your friends for only $201 Buy a Birthday Ad for your Buddy. 
Call The Observer Advertising Office for Details 
631--6900 

page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY lARSON 

Fortunately, even the Boy Scouts who fail knot-tying get to go camping. 
OF INTEREST 


DIN GHALL 

we c.are llair 
HIGH QUALITY, LOW COST HAIR CARE 
1811 SOUTH BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 271-7674 
r-----------, r-----------i
I haircut coupon I I haircut coupon 1 
: SAVE : : SAVE : 
I $1.00 I I $2.00 I 
I I I I
I reg. $8 l I reg. $13-$15 I I WET CUT ! I SHAMPOO, CUT & 1 I I f STYlE I 1 with this coupon 1 1 with tnis coupon 1 I 6 -'lpiras; 11 /8/93 I I expi~: 11 /8/93 I 
L-----------~ L-----------~ 
... 
... 


SPORTS 
No.3 Notre Dame trounce OSU and Detroit-Mercy 
page 16 

Men capture first MCC soccer title 
By MIKE NORBUT shots and no corners for 
Sports Writer LaSalle. 
The scoring opened only 

The No. 21 Notre Dame men's 19:32 into the game, when Tim soccer team clinched its first Oates put a shot past Explorer regular season title in the Mid­goalie Tom Gallagher off a western Collegiate Conference Chris Dean pass to give Notre Sunday with its 4-0 victory over Dame a 1-0 lead. Sophomore LaSalle. Bill Lanza increased the lead to 
The Irish were able to over­2-0 just over ten minutes later, come the elements as they put scoring off assists from Oates constant pressure on the and junior Keith Carlson. Explorer defense, tallying 17 Oates gave the Irish a 3-0 shots on goal and eight corner halftime lead when he scored kicks compared to only five with just :42 toylay in the half 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
By claiming two victories over October break against Midwest­ern Collegiate Conference oppo­nents Ohio State and Detroit­Mercy, the Notre Dame women's soccer team earned the top seed in the MCC tourney which takes place this weekend in Indianapolis. 
The Irish, now 17-2, set a team record by winning their 17th game. They extended their unbeaten streak versus MCC foes to 14 games. They have now won 22 of their last 24 games and have outscored their opponents 101-15 during that span. 
The squad first knocked off the Buckeyes at OSU's North Field by the score of 6-0 before handing a 3-0 loss to the Lady Titans of Detroit-Mercy at Titan Field. 
Irish tri-captain Alison Lester took over first place on the Notre Dame all-time goal scor­ing charts with her hat trick against Ohio State. Lester now has the team records for career goals, assists and points with 
SMC Sports The Belles' volleyball prepare to take on Goshen College tonight at , ' f 
Angela. 
r see page 14 
~ 
~ 
45 goals and 35 assists for 125 points. 
"It couldn't go to somebody who is more deserving," said Irish tri-captain Andi Kurek. "Ali(son)'s worked really hard since she's been here. Her in­tensity is just unbelievable." 
She gave Notre Dame all the offense it would need against the Buckeyes by scoring two goals in the first 28 minutes of the game. 
"Alison had a great game against Ohio State," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. ''That may be her best game of the year, and she only played about 60 minutes." 
Her first score was assisted by sophomore Rosella Guerrero and freshman Kate Fisher and the second was assisted by Fisher and junior Jodi Hartwig. 
Lester assisted on sophomore Michelle McCarthy's 12th goal of the season at the. 30:08 mark to give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead and then capped her hat trick just under ten minutes later to give the Irish a 4-0 advantage at the half. Sophomore Ragen Coyne assisted on the fourth goal, which was Lester's 13th this season. 

Freshman Cindy Daws added two goals in the second half to close the Irish scoring. Mc­Carthy, Fisher and sophomore Julie Vogel assisted the scores. 
Freshmen goalkeepers Jen Renola and Amy Mitchell split the shutout as Notre Dame out­shot Ohio State 31-6. 
The Irish followed up the Buckeye victory by rolling over the Lady Titans. 
Daws continued her scoring prowess by netting two early goals for the Irish. The first came 8:16 into the game and was assisted by McCarthy and Hartwig. Her second came at the 14 minute mark and was assisted by McCarthy and Coyne. They were 12th and 13th goals of the season for Daws. 
Coyne closed the scoring with 26 minutes left in the game when she scored her third goal of the season with Fisher and junior Tiffany Thompson assist­ing. 
Renola earned the shutout as the Irish outshot the Titans 20­6. 
Inside SPORTS 
College Football Michigan State may be out of Rose Bowl con­tention with Saturday's loss to Indiana. 
see page 13 off a Lanza pass. Following his five point performance Sunday, Oates, a junior forward, climbed into the Notre Dame all-time scoring list, now hold­ing 15th place with 60 career points. 


"Tim Oates always seems to be at the right spot at the right time," said junior teammate Jason Fox. 
Fox contributed to the Irish scoring at the 66:04 mark when he assisted on a Keith Carlson goal to give Notre Dame the 4-0 victory. Junior goalie Bert Bader needed to record only one save in his 25th career shutout, the ninth on the sea­son for the Irish. 
Notre Dame finished the sea­son with a 5-1 conference record and will enjoy the first seed and a first round bye in the conference tournament starting Thursday. 
The Irish finished the season with a 13-5 mark and a . 7 22 winning percentage, the best head coach Mike Berticelli has enjoyed by the November 1 mark since taking the helm af­ter leaving Old Dominion. 
Notre Dame squared off against Berticelli's old team on October 26, but the rain and stiff winds helped to slow the Irish attack, as the Monarchs prevailed 4-1. 
"I thought we played well for the whole match," commented Berticelli after the game. "Anything can happen, and it did, just not in our favor." 
Though they had only ten shots on goal compared to 17 for Old Dominion, the Irish con-
see SOCCER I page 10 
The Observer/Dave Hungeling 

Freshman Cindy Dawes helps the Irish keep their No. 3 ranking. 
"We played well enough to win," said Kurek, "but we didn't play as well as we could have." 
The Irish have a bye in the 
Tuesday, November 2, 1993 

Irish boost conference record against Butler and Evansville 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Assistant Sports Edimr 
Coming off two disappointing losses to No. 17 Arizona State and No. 18 Arizona, the Notre Dame volleyball team re­bounded quickly against con· ference opponents Butler and Evansville. jumping out to a 2-0 conference record and taking the inside track to a third con­secutive MCC crown. 
In improving its record to 19­5, the Irish were able to domi· nate a Butler team that had been viewed as its toughest test in the conference, overwhelm­ing the Bulldogs 17-15, 15-13, 9-15, 15-1. 
"That was the best job we've done all year of getting up on a team and not giving them a chance to get back in the game." explained Irish head coach Debbie Brown, who ran her career record against MCC foes to 19-0. "We put a lot of pressure on them with our serving, and they were stuck in a rotation they didn't want to be in." 
Notre Dame hit a solid .278 for the match, getting espe­cially good production out of senior middle blocker Molly Stark, who had a team high 17 kills, and junior outside hitter Nicole Coates, who added 14 kills and three service aces. 
However, as has been the case whenever the Irish have been successful this season. defense keyed the victory, led by junior outside hitter Christy Peters. who continued to show why her multi-dimensional play makes her an all-American candidate, notching 27 digs to · oin her two blocks, two aces, 
~ 
and 12 kills. 
"I was very pleased that the team responded so well from the disappointing loses in Arizona," stated Brown. "They had their best practice of the year the Thursday before Butler." 
This work ethic earried through to Sunday's match against out-gunned Evansville, as the Irish coasted to an easy 15-5, 15-8, 15·1 victory in just 50 minutes. 
Notre Dame was able to uti­lize many different combina­tions in getting experience for the entire squad, as eleven dif­ferent hitters notched a kill for the Irish, led by 12 from Peters. eight from Stark, and seven from increasingly improved freshman outside hitter Kristina Ervin, who also regis­tered seven digs. 
"It was a very good team ef­fort all the way around," com­mented assistant coach Steve Schlick. "Everyone on the floor worked very hard all the way through the match, and I was pleased to see that type o! e!l'ort regardless of the score." 
Notre Dame was never seri· ously threatened in the match. allowing the Aces to tie the score only once. The Irish also gave a preview of' years to come, as a combination of the four eligible freshmen (Ervin, Jenny Birkner, Jen Briggs, and Laura Reckmeyer), Peters, and sophomore setter Shannon Tuttle dominated the final game of the match, hitting a .591 as a group. 
The Irish success against the MCC came at a necessary time, as the team came up short in 
see VOLLEYBALL I e 12 
first round of this weekend's seven team tournament. Their first mateh will be Friday after­noon versus either Butler or Detroit-Mercy. 


Ohio State Buckeyes prepare to fur­ther their winning streak against Wisconsin this weekend. 
see page 14 

~·------------------------­






