The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 77 MONDAY, JANUARY 25, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Retired Justice Marshall dies of cardiac arrest 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Retired Justice Thurgood Marshall, the first black to sit on the Supreme Court and a towering figure of the civil rights movement, died Sunday of heart failure. He was 84. 
As a lawyer, Marshall suc­cessfully argued the landmark case in which the nation's highest court overturned racial segregation in the public schools. As a liberal justice in later years, his was a powerful voice for the disadvantaged, and one that turned increas­ingly to dissent as the eourt grew more conservative. 
Marshall had been in failing health since his retirement in 1991, and illness forced him to cancel plans last Wednesday to administer the oath of office to Vice President Al Gore. He died at 2 p.m. at Bethesda Naval Medical Center in suburban 
•Reaction/ page 6 
Maryland, according to Toni House, Supreme Court spokeswoman. 
President Clinton, whose own state of Arkansas figured prominently in the desegrega­tion battles of the 1950s, led the praise for Marshall. He was a "giant in the quest for human rights and equal opportunity in the whole history of our coun­try," the president said in a statement. 
"Every American should be grateful for the contributions he made as an advocate and as a justice of the United States Supreme Court." 
Chief Justice William Rehn­quist said Marshall would be re­membered as much for his work before coming to the court as afterwards -"his untiring leadership in the legal battle to outlaw racial discrimination." 
For decades as a young man, Marshall travelled the nation as the recognized champion of the poor and powerless. During his 23 years as legal director of the National Association for the Ad­vancement of Colored People, and his tenure as the federal government's solicitor general, Marshall argued 32 cases be-
see MARSHALL I page 6 

Students arrested at protest 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Three Notre Dame students were arrested Saturday when they blocked the entrance to a Washington, D.C .. abortion clinic. 
Breen-Phillips Hall sophomore Kelly Dwight. Farley Hall junior Claire Johnson and Cavanaugh Hall freshman Hobert Schlosser were in Washington with Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Hight to Life to take part in anti-abortion protests that marked the 20th anniversary of Hoe v Wade, the Supreme Court case that legal­ized abortion. 
About 100 people, including the ND students, were blocking the clinic as part of a "rescue," and about 200 other people took part in similar demonstrations at two other Washington clinics, Johnson said. "We managed to keep the 
The Observer/Brian McDonough 

clinics closed for most of the 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right-to-Life demonstrates in Washington, D.C. with other anti abortion supporters as part of a large anti abortion
day." 
demonstration designed to influence the new administration's pro-choice stand. 
The protestors were arrested and charged with incommoding, down there again, they'll hold protest "one of the most worth­vated to Liberate Life (CALL). Bush. "With Republicans in thewhieh is similar to a trespassing 
me there a little bit longer." while experiences I ever took Dwight said. White House, we got
charge, Johnson said. They 
Pro-choice demonstrators part in. There were some won­Estimates for the march complacent."
WAre given citations and re­
were also at the clinic "shouting derful people there with us." ranged from 75,000 to 200,000
leased. 
obscenities" at the pro-life ac­Dwight, Johnson, Schlosser participants. "It was one of the Johnson also found it "cruelThe citations carry a $50 fine tivists, Dwight said. and fifty-nine other Notre Dame biggest ones I've been to," and spiteful" that on the samewhich must be paid within 30 
Both Dwight and Johnson said and Saint Mary's students were Johnson said. day of the march. Presidentdays, but Johnson said that she that police at the clinic did not also in Washington to Dwight said that she was Clinton was rescinding andoes not plan to pay the fine. 
provide adequate security to participate in a protest march heartened by the sight of "a lot executive order that prohibited
"We don't believe in giving 
separate the pro-choice activists to the Supreme Court building of people (who) stood up for federally funded clinics andmoney to a system that allows 
from the pro-life demonstrators. Friday. what they believed." physicians from discussing
(abortions) to happen." she 
Johnson, who has participated The march, which took place Johnson said that the tone of abortion with patients. Thesaid. 
in these protests for four years, on the 20th anniversary of the the march was "much more se­Right to Life Group had hopedIf Johnson does not pay the said she found this situation Roe v Wade decision, was orga­rious" than in years past, when that Clinton would not followfine, a warrant will be issued "unusual and disturbing." nized by the Christian Defense the pro-life community had a through with this campaignfor her arrest in the District of 
Despite this, Dwight called the Coalition and Collegians Acti-sympathetic ear in George promise, said Johnson. 
Columbia. "If they catch me 

Iraq denies firing on American warplanes N D student struck 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraq Aspin also reported that there newspapers invited President denied its anti-aircraft batteries was "some indication" that Clinton to settle disputes fired at U.S. warplanes again Iraqi troops were preparing through dialogue. 
by car near Knott and insisted on Sunday that the new sites for anti-aircraft In an interview with CNN, cease-lire it declared last week missiles in southern Iraq, de­Hummadi said the recent U.S. By SARAH DORAN remained in effect. spite allied warnings to keep attacks were "minor ones, and News Writer 
The claims came a day after such weapons out of the air ex­we are committed to the cease­
U.S. warplanes attacked Iraqi clusion zone. "It's a little soon fire." But if attacks continue, Pasquerilla East Junior Alicia missile sites for the third con­to make definitive judgments," the two sides could be in for a McKearn was struck by a car secutive day. he added. difficult time, he said. early Saturday morning as she 
In Washington, Defense Sec­Appearing on CBS's "Face the In other developments: was exiting a vehicle on Ju­niper Road. McKearn was ad­
retary Les Aspin said it was not Nation," Aspin said recent Iraqi mitted to St. Joseph's Medicalcertain the Iraqis opened fire action "was not proof" that •U.N. experts resumed de­Center after sustaining injuries Saturday night in the southern Saddam Hussein's government struction of mustard and nerve 
to her legs and is listed in
"no fly" zone, but he stressed was trying to test the new U.S. gas at the Muthanna complex stable condition there. 
the pilot thought he was shot at. administration, or that it had north of Baghdad, said the "McKearn was exiting a ve­U.S. military spokesmen stood necessarily broken its own team's leader, Paul Brough, an hicle in the north bound lane of spokesman Phil Johnson. 
by the report that American cease-fire. American. The team, which had 
Juniper Road about 3:15 am 
The car that struck McKearnplanes were fired on, and a sec­Iraq's information minister, been kept out of Iraq for Saturday when she stepped to was driven by Alberto Fernan­ond pilot on the aircraft carrier Hamed Yousef Hummadi, called several weeks, is acting under a the rear of the car and into the 
dez. No charges have been
USS Kitty Hawk reported seeing for "pragmatic, businesslike Gulf War cease-fire provision path of an oncoming south filed.
gun flashes during the Saturday discussion" with the United requiring Iraq to dismantle bound vehicle and was hit," Further information was not 
night incident. States, and government-run weapons of mass destruction. said Notre Dame Security press availble at press time. 


page 2 The Observer Monday, January 25, 1993 

INSIDE COLUMN 
You are much more than your form 
When reading that title for the first time. one has to wonder if the writer of this column is getting ready to embark on some account of an 

extraterrestrial/out-of­
body experience or some ...-IIIIIL ......._ 
insightful comments on Michael Hobbs 
life. Best assured, it is Advertising Manager 
the latter. 
Picture yourself, if you -------­will, as a can of Campbell's soup. There, most of you are, each day, trying to make your label appear a certain way for others to see. Sometimes, you are grabbing whatever you can lind that will suffice to cover your can. At other times, you go to great lengths to make sure that your label is clean, smells good, and radiantly appealing. Still other times, you could care less what your label looks or feels like as long as it is there so you can go about your activities that day. 
The label that is being referred to is a person's appearance and the can is someone's physicality, together these make-up a person's form. Most important, the contents of the can are the unique qualities that make one person diiTerent from another. 
As you stop to think about the whole concept, many people will concur that the majority o their time is spent making sure that their label is appealingly presented. They spend 90% o the time devoted to the Campbell's soup can worrying about how they can improve the appearance of the can, their form, instead o how they can improve the contents of the can. 
Mathematically speaking, 99.5% of who we are we cannot touch or see. If you were to take apart a human being and lay it all out in separate piles, you would lind a large pile o bones here, a large intestine over there, a small intestine over here, a large pile of hair here, a small pile of hair over there, fingernails, muscles, teeth, and on the list goes which account eumulatively for only 0.5% of who we are, our form. Yet. you would not have found the pile that is the person. Yes, you would have found all of the physical parts of that person, but you still do not have the essence of that person. 
If so much of who we are is what we cannot touch and cannot see, why do so many people spend so much time trying to change the smallest part of the Campbell's soup package. Everyone is foeused on the label of their Campbell's soup can and not the contents of the can. 
I am not advocating that everyone stop showering and taking good care of their body, but I do wonder if some people out there are all wrapped up in the wrong web-similar to a cook who, instead of opening the can and preparing the soup, takes the label and tries to cook it. 
Given the make-up of our being, if 100.0% o who we are can be improved and we are given the choice as to which block of that total percentage we can work on, why would not everyone spend all of their time improving the 99.5% of our being and not the 0.5% of our form? For all of those people who spend their 90% of the time working on the 0.5% of their form, do you not think that there can be greater rewards by spending their time more productively where meaningful change can be evidenced. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: Systems: 
Jon Halloran 
News: Accent: 
Sarah Doran Lynne Bauwens Becky Barnes Viewpoint: Nora Buckley 
Sports: Graphics: 
George Dohrmann Anne-Marie Production: Conrado Cynthia Ehrhardt Lab Tech: Melissa Cusack Jake Peters 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
..... 


FRONTS: 

WARM STATIONARY 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 

• , ur ey -A prominent left-wing journalist was killed when a bomb planted under his car exploded Sunday. Turkey's prime minister pledged that the killers would be brought to justice. Ugur Mumcu, 50, a columnist for the Istanbul newspaper Cumhuriyet, had been an outspoken critic of Islamic fundamentalism and Kurdish separatism. Islamic Jihad and two other Islamic groups that had never been heard of previously claimed responsibility for the assassination. Mumcu, a vigorous defender of secularism in Turkey, had reported receiving death threats from extremist Islamic groups. He died instantly when the bomb exploded as he started his car outside his apartment. The Anatolia news agency quoted officials as saying the bomb was planted under the car. 
NATIONAL 

Clinton to pressure return of Aristide 
• MIAMI -The Hev. Jesse Jackson said Sunday the Clinton administration is prepared to turn up the pressure on Haiti's military­backed regime until it restores the country's elected government. Jackson, who spoke to reporters after wrapping up a weekend visit to Haiti, said the Heagan-Bush 
administrations had supported Jesse Ja~kson Haiti's military dictators. But Clinton and Secretary of State Warren Christopher had no intention of continuing to comfort the army and the nation's elite, Jackson said. "That's why the military is so afraid," he said. "It is now on a boat without a compass." 


OF INTEREST 

• 
A Recyclin' Irish mandatory organizational meeting will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the C.S.C. All dorm environmental commissioners must be present. 

• 
Model United Nations Club is holding their or­ganizational meeting for the semester tonight at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healey. Meetings will be every Monday at 7 p.m. for simulations. All interested students are invited to attend. There will be an opportunitly to attend one of two conferences this semester. 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 22 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 225,643,740 -0.36 to 235.74 S&P COMPOSITE -0.47 to 507.59 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -4.68 to 3282.07

UNCHANGED 586 


GOLD -$0.50 to $329.30 
SILVER 
-$0.015 to $3.725 
FORECAST 
Mostly sunny and 
cold today with a 
high of 30 and a low 
of 10. Cloudy and 
warmer tomorrow 
with a high in the mid 
to upper 30's. 
H L 
14 2 59 41 70 43 66 50 33 23 44 32 51 35 37 30 36 30 57 36 52 50 79 50 59 27 20 7 36 27 51 38 55 38 55 54 58 31 55 46 
49 34 
36 30 
39 34 
59 38 

• MEM HIS, Tenn.-The confessed killer of Martin Luther King Jr. hopes a mock trial to be filmed for a national television broadcast will help him get out of prison, his lawyer said Sunday. The three-hour program could lead to renewed calls for a real trial, the appointment of a special prosecutor or for clemency, said James Earl Hay's attorney, William Pepper. Hay, who is serving a 99-year prison sentenee, pleaded guilty in 1969 to killing King on April 4, 1968, at The Lorraine Motel in Memphis. King, who was in town to organize a sanitation workers strike, was shot as he stood outside his motel room. Filming of the program, "Guilt or Innocence: The Trial of James Earl Hay," was to begin Monday in Memphis. The $3 million produetion is being done by Thames Television of London and the cable network Home Box Oflice. 
Clinton searches for nominees 
• 
WASHINGTON -President Clinton skipped church to say goodbye Sunday to family members from Arkansas, then met with top advisers to go over potential nominees for attorney general. Clinton, casually dressed, looked over a black notebook containing recommendations for the post of top law enforcement oflicial. He declined to answer reporters' questions. On Saturday he said he had asked aides to develop more information on "three or four" prospects. "They're making progress," said Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary. Clinton has been scrambling to lind a new nominee since his earlier choice, Zoe Baird, was forced to withdraw amid public outrage over her hiring of a Peruvian couple, who were the United States illegally, for child care and other services. 

• 
Freshmen, interested in acting? Auditions for the Freshmen Four, four one-aet plays directed and pro­duced by freshmen, are tonight at 7 p.m. in 118 Nieuland Science Hall. No experience is necessary. 


• Department of Communication and Theatre 
announces auditions for "Julius Ceasar" Monday and Tuesday in the DeBartolo Classroom Building. Sign up for an audition time at 320 O'Shaghnessy. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1533: England's King Henry VIII secretly married his second wife, Anne Boleyn. 

• 
In 1949: The first Emmy awards for outstanding television programming were given. 

• 
In 1959: The first transcontinental jet flight went from Los Angeles to New York. 

• 
In 1980: The U.S. inflation rate reached the highest point ever 33 years. 

• 
In 1981: The 52 Americans held hostage by Iran for 444 days arrived in the United States. 

• 
In 1988: Vice President George Bush and Dan Rather clashed on "The CBS Evening News" as the anchorman tried to question the Republican presidential candidate about his role in the Iran-Contra affair. 




--~-­




Club Column 
JANUARY 25, 1993 
1) All clubs, budgeting and registration packets will be available February 12 and are due March 3. Look for letters to club presidents in the mail next week which explains everything you need you need to know. Questions call Jennifer Blanchet at 634-4975. Office hours will be posted this week. 
2) Last day to access all club funds is April 15. See the Student Treasurer's Office with any problems. 3)Feminist Forum meeting: "Sharing our experiences as women of different races and religions, and how it effects or position in the feminist movement," Tues., Jan. 26 at 7 p.m. in the Dooley Room, LaFortune. Questions, contact Tanya at 634-2878. 
4) NDCIBD internship applications are .due Jan. 27, at 8 p.m. Questions call Michelle (284-5207) or Kelly (284-5167). Meetings this semester are as follows: Internships: Sundays, 9 p.m. ND Room, Lafortune; Citizen Democracy Corps: Mondays, 7 p.m. 22 Hayes-Healy; Operations Management: Tuesdays, 7:15p.m., Dooley Room, LaFortune; Financial Division: Tuesdays, 8:15p.m., Dooley Room, Lafortune. Questions call Kathy at 634-2764 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 6 p.m. on Wednesday. 
The Observer page 3 

Rockne film. premieres tonight 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has underwritten local acquisition of a new documentary profiling the life of legendary football coach Knute Rockne. 
WNIT, Channel 34 will premiere "Knute Rockne and His Fighting Irish," tonight at 9 
p.m. EST and will rebroadcast it at 1 p.m. EST Wednesday. 
The one-hour film narrated by actor Joe Mantegna, is a part of "The American Experience" series on the Public Broadcast­ing System. The documentary combines archive and newsreel footage with interviews of Rockne biographers, several of his former players and current Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. 
Also featured in the film are clips from the 1942 feature film "Knute Rockne: All-American." 
"Knute Rockne and His Fight­ing Irish" chronicles the story of the Norwegian immigrant who grew up in the tough Logan Square district of Chicago to be­come an American sports le­gend. 
In addition to coaching the Fighting Irish, Rockne was a newspaper columnist, radio commentator and motivational speaker who spent hundreds of hours promoting himself and his team, turning himself into one of America's most celebrated personalities of the 1920s. He was en route to Hollywood on March 31, 1931, to discuss a movie deal when he died at age 43 in a plane crash near Bazaar, Kan. 
Written by Ken Chowder, "Rockne and His Fighting Irish" was produced by Diane Garey and Lawrence Hott of Florentine Films. 
Events held to celebrate Alumni Week 
By NICK RIOS News Writer 
In an attempt to give students a better perspective on the Alumni Association, a series of events will be held this week to mark Alumni Week, according 
the Student Alumni Relation Group (SARG). 
"We are trying to change the popular view of the Alumni As­sociation as being a money making association. We are trying to let the people know the Alumni Association is here for the benefit of the students 

Saint Mary's students attend conference 
By LAURA FERGUSON News Writer 
Eighty-five Saint Mary's students attended the Mission Impossible Leadership conference in Bristol, Indiana Sunday to refine and explore leadership skills. 
This workshop, created by the Saint Mary's Leadership Development Committee, focused on encouraging and developing existing leadership skills and recruiting new student leaders, according to Pat White, Associate Dean of 
Tuesday, January 26 



Anthony Lewis 
Syndicated Columnist 
for 

The New York Times 
on 

''THE POWER OF THE PRESS'' 
7:00p.m. Room 101 DeBartelo Hall 
Co-Sponsored By: 
Student Government The Thomas J. White Center American Studies Department Government Department Philosophy Department 
and the alumni," said Valdes. 
Student government, the Alumni Assocociation and SARG are sponsoring the event. 
Alumni Week begins today with a scavenger hunt. A clue will appear in the Observer ev­ery day throughout the week and many prizes will be awarded, said Valdes. 
"Hello week" also begins to­day. By saying "hello" to the right person on campus, stu­dents could be an instant win­ner, said Valdes. 
The idea originated because "in the past students walking on the quad would always take the time to at least say 'hi' if somebody pass along their way," he said. "In some sense we are trying to go back to the way it use to be, when we were more like a big family." 
The week also includes: 
•Career Night Thursday at 
9:00 p.m. in North Dining Hall 
• A conference by Sean and Julie O'Brien, this year's Dooley Award recipients, Thursday at 
4:30 p.m. in the Center for So­cial Concerns coffee house 
•Alumni versus students in Volleyball at JACC 10:00pm 
Faculty and org·anizer of the event. 
The conference used skits, small group discussions, pre­sentations, role playing, and personal tests, said White. 
"The activities were meant to probe leadership styles, poten­tial and the general attitudes toward involvement, and what blocks that student involvement at Saint Mary's," said White. "We also wanted students to begin to network with other students in other leadership positions around campus." 
Participants in the workshop included many students cur­rently involved in Student Gov­ernment, various clubs, and the Resident Advisor program. Several first and second year students who were nominated by faculty to be specifically in­vited to the Mission Impossible Leadership Conference also attended. 
"This workshop stressed that we are strong women," said freshmen Colin Pier. "We are each leaders in our own way and we can work together to create a positive change to benefit the community. 


----~-------­

page 4 The Observer Monday, January 24, 1993 

© 1992 IDK ELECTRONICS CORP. RELEASED AND DISTRIBUTED BY CAROLINE RECORDS 
Offer void outside rhc Unired States. Allow 6-8 weeks for delivery. Offer limited while supplies last. 



Monday, January 25, 1993 The Observer page 5 

Ryden claims Jesus and Mary speak with her 

By JOHN LUCAS 
News Wnter 
Speaking on the diverse topics of church unity, the Holy Spirit and lack of faith in the modern Catholic Church. Vassula Hyden, a world renown writer who claims to have received messages from Jesus and Mary, brought a unique perspective on religion to Stepan Center Sunday afternoon. 
According to Michael O'Carroll. Hyden's Theological Director, formerly of Blackrock University in Dublin, Ireland, there is much to be learned from the messages Ryden claims to be receiving. 
''I've bePn impressed by the theological content of Vassula's writings-they have both rele­vance and a way of making the sublime truths of faith mean­ingful," O'Carroll explained. 
According to Pat and Sue Callahan. publishers of the "True Life In God" newsletter. a publir.ation devoted to Ryden's writing and preaching, Ryden's messages are as important as any from Lourdes, Fatima or Medjugorje. 
Notre Dame professor of theology and organizer Father Edward O'Connor agrees with that assessment. 
"On principle. we've got to be open to Vassula and God's message-prophesy has been a gift since the beginning of the churrh and we must accept it in a realistic way," O'Connor said. 
de began her ljfe of 

Vassula Ryden, a world renown writer who claims to have recieved messages from Jesus and Mary, spoke to a group yesterday afternoon at Stepan Center. 
preaching and writing in an in­an angel who urged her to read teresting way. A native of Egypt the Bible. Later, Ryden began and a former fashion model, to hear from Jesus who at first Ryden claims that in 1985 she spoke to her in simple first began to hear the voice of sentences. 
"At first the messages came in short sentences-just like a telegram. In the very beginning it sounded like a child with a touch of naivety-but what appeared to be simple, really was not," she explained. 
According to Ryden, Jesus began to speak to her in longer and more complex messages urging her to begin traveling and writing to "transmit His message." 
"Before it happened I never knew that God could manifest himself in such unusual ways ... I never sought to receive divine messages," she said. 
Now a noted theological au­thor, Hyden has published five volumes of writing entitled "True Life In God" detailing God's messages to her. Among those messages have been ap­peals for the reunion of the Catholic, Orthodox and Protes­tant churches. 
Ryden's lecture at Notre Dame drew an unexpected amount of interest, and a large crowd. According to O'Connor, the lecture, which was first scheduled to be held in the main auditorium in the DeBar­tolo Building, was moved to Washington Hall and finally to the Stepan Center after O'Connor began receiving phone calls from as far away as Davenport, Iowa and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan from those interested in attending. 

Daisy Duke will be in Gordo sees hope for women in advertising 

full effect tonight! 
By JILL d th .. b
can o mr JO s. BEEMSTERBOER "Go out and make it happen," News Writer she said. 
To be successful, it is impor-
Mary Lou Gordo, vice presi­tant to find out personal


Happy 21st 
dreams before entering a field,dent of LeoBurnett Advertising 
and a 1972 Saint Mary's grad­said Gordo. 
uate, offered an optimistic view 
Kate Bamhrickf 
for women in the world of ad­"Do what you do well," she 
said.

vertising in a lecture last Fri­day. 
She also offered suggestions
Gordo said that sexual bias isLove & Pizza, still a problem in today's work­for students interested in 
starting their own careers in
force, but it is necessary forThe Ho-Ho Hussies female employees to show they advertising. 
"You can redesign an adver­tisment and present it to a 
!I!W!IIII,I!III""-'111111111111111111111-----• prospective employer," she said. This technique could per­suade the employer that the student would benefit the com­pany, she said. 
G d .d h d ..
or o sa1 er ecJsiOn to enter the business world was influenced by her experience at Saint Mary's. "I was inspired from the atmosphere at Saint Mary's," she said. "The special attention and caring attitudes of my professors influenced my choice to enter business world," Gordo added. 
After Saint Mary's, she at­tended graduate school and at­tained her MBA. 
At LeoBurnett, Gordo pro­gressed from working with domestics to "the world." 
She is now involved with world wide advertising, which she said she finds both reward­ing and challenging. 


SAVEs 
FoR 
SPRING BREAK! 
Student Employees needed for lunch hours 

potato creek state park saturday, january 30 lunch provided 
Call SOH X0123
bus leaves golf course at 11 :OOam and returns 4:00pm $5.00 includes transportation and lunch 
or 

$2.00 equipment rentals 
NOH X4246
register in advance at RecSports in the JACC by thursday, jan. 28 


page 6 



Clinton praises Marshall's record 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
dent Clinton on Sunday lauded 
the late Thurgood Marshall as 
"a giant in the quest for human 
righL'i and equal opportunity." 
Clinton's condolence state­
ment, coming shortly after the 
84-year-old attorney and 
Supreme Court justice died of 
heart failure, was echoed by 
other prominent figures in 
American politics and law. 
The president declared him­self "deeply saddened" by the death of Marshall, who as a civil rights attorney argued and won the landmark Brown vs. Board of Education school seg­regation case. before the Supreme Court and later be­came the high court's first black member. 
"lie was a giant in the quest for human rights and equal op­portunity in the whole history of our country," Clinton said. "Every American should be grateful for the contributions he made as an advocate and as a justice of the United States Supreme Court." 
Mike McWilliams, president of the American Bar Association, called Marshall "a landmark figure in the history of American jurisprudence and the civil rights movement. The world is a different place be­cause he was here." 
Similarly, Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said Marshall "is one of the all-time giants, a man who followed his conscience and the law rather thai1 whim or political expediency. He set the standard for present and future judges to follow." 
A. Leon Higginbotham, chief judge emeritus of the U.S. 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadelphia and a veteran black jurist, said Marshall "has always been a model and a mentor for me." He said Mar­shall's death was a national loss "as well as a personal loss for me." 
"I believe he was the greatest lawyer in the 20th century," said Harvard University constitutional scholar Laurence Tribe. "He was to the law what Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King were to social is­sues." 
The Observer Monday, January 25, 1993 
The Observer/Brian McDonough 

A talent for the game 
Notre Dame students show off their talent and entertain spectators by juggling rings, balls and a scarf as part of a Winter Fest activity last Friday. 


Marshall 
continued from page 1 
fore the Supreme Court. He won 29. 
As a justice, he opposed the death penalty. and was a force­ful advocate of abortion rights, affirmative action, legal protec­tions for criminal defendants. 
"His victories went beyond those pertaining to race," said 
A. Leon Higginbotham, chief judge emeritus of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit. "For if he had not won the Brown (desegregation) case, the door of equal opportunity would have been more tightly closed also to women, other minorities and the poor." 
Laurence Tribe, constitutional scholar and professor, Harvard Law School, called Marshall "the greatest lawyer in the 20th century." 
When he first announced his 
II I 
intention to retire, Marshall was asked who should succeed him on the court. 
"Me," he replied. 
A short time later, President Bush nominated Clarence Thomas, also black, who joined the court after an historic con­frontation over allegations of sexual harassment. "I wish him the best," said Marshall. 
Marshall was appointed to the court on June 13, 1967, by President Lyndon B. Johnson, climaxing a career as a civil rights lawyer, appeals court judge and U.S. solicitor general. 
Among some of the more im­portant decisions written by Marshall for the high court were those saying that shop­ping center owners' rights to restrict demonstrations were limited; that a teacher cannot be fired for speaking out truthfully on public issues; that possessing obscene material within the privacy of one's own home cannot be made a crime. 
"Scent of a Woman" wins Golden Globe 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) ­"Scent of a Woman" won a surprise Golden Globe for best dramatic motion picture of 1992 as well as honors for best acting by AI Pacino and best screenplay. 
Emma Thompson was ac­claimed best dramatic actress for "Howards End" and Clint Eastwood was honored as best director for his western, "Unforgiven." 
The 50th presentation of the Hollywood Foreign Press Asso­ciation's awards on Saturday spread the movie and television trophies liberally, and no win­ner dominated the event. 
"Scent of a Woman," the story of a blind, retired Army officer, overcame "A Few Good Men," "Unforgiven," "The Crying Game" and "Howards End" in the 
Hexed R 5:15, 7·.30, 10:00 Home Alone II PG 4:45 (only) Leprechaun R 7:15, 9:30 (only) Alive R 4:30, 7:00, 9:45 

competition. 
"I am surprised but I will go on ..,.--as long as there's life," Pacino said in accepting his award for the film that also earned the writing award for Bo Goldman. 
The Golden Globes are viewed closely for indications of what's to come at the Academy Awards in March. 
ABC's blue-collar sitcom "Roseanne" and the HBO spe­cial "Stalin" tied for top televi­sion honors with three apiece. 
"Roseanne" won for best comedy or musical series, and co-stars Roseanne Arnold and John Goodman took best actress and actor. "Stalin" brought the mini-series or TV movie actor award to Robert Duvall and support acting awards to Maximilian Schell and Joan Plowright. 
Standing in for Mrs. Arnold was her husband, Tom, who said she was home sick. 
"Most of all, she'd like to thank her fans -and it's about time," he said. Mrs. Arnold has been nominated for an Emmy just once despite the popularity of her show. 


appy 
Birthday 

Kelly 

Jenningsll 
Love, Mom, Dad, t, Mick, Matt, Kev, Keith, Bean 
CAMPUS Racquetball Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Volleyball 
IH Team Racquetball 

Grad/Fac/Staff Volleyball 


DEADLINE -JANUARY 20 
CAMPUS Indoor Soccer -Men & Women Badminton Doubles -Men & Women Co-Ree Water Volleyball 
IH Swim Relays 

DEADLINE -JANUARY 27 


INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The machines used by Indiana po­lice to determine a driver's blood-alcohol level may be giv­ing inaccurate readings which can result in an unfair convic­tion, a former state official said. 
Michael Evans, former direc­tor of the state's Indiana De­partment of Toxicology, said he believes the machine can be accurate if used properly. The department of toxicology certi­fies the accuracy of each of the state's 350 breath-test ma­chines. 
But Evans told the Indianapo­lis Star that some people, par­ticularly defendants with blood­alcohol contents just above the legal limit of intoxication, may receive inaccurate readings from the machines for several reasons. 
The breath test results often are key evidence in a drunken driving cases. In Indiana. state law presumes that a motorist with a blood-alcohol content above .1 0 percent is a drunken driver. 
To determine that level. law enforcement officials usually require suspects to blow into a breath-test machine. The rna-
Monday, January 25, 1993 The Observer -page 7 
Blood-alcohol test may be inaccurate 
chine measures the amount of alcohol in a person's breath and converts it into the amount of alcohol that would be in that person's blood. 
Henry R. Besch, the current director of the toxicology de­partment, said Evans' com­ments are "shopworn" cri­tiques. He said the breath-test machine results have withstood hundreds of similar challenges. 
Besch also believes the ma­chines certified by his depart­ment already help the defen­dant by slightly underestimat­ing the actual blood-alcohol content to account for any margin of error. 
However, Evans' beliefs and background have led several defense attorneys to hire him for drunken driving cases. He 
runs his own consulting firm, the American Institute of Toxi­cology, and will testify both for pay and for free. 
He often points to national studies which he said have shown the conversion factors used to make the blood-alcohol estimate from the breath sam­ple aren't reliable enough to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. 
Publisher Peter Kalikow said Sunday. 
Post employees represented by "Our greatest hope in accept­
all 10 unions at the paper must ing this proposal is that it will 
agree to such concessions or lead to a new owner for this 
there will be no Monday edition paper -one who understands 
of the 192-year-old paper. the newspaper business and 
At least half of the unions will have the Post's future in­
have now sup.ported the cut, terest at heart," the Guild said 
and the others planned to vote in a statement. 
by 6 p.m. Sunday. Union leaders Kalikow, who is trying to sell endorsed the cut -t~e second the Post, says he will also raise 20 percent pay reductiOn at the its price a dime to 50 cents on Post in 2 1/2 years. About half Monday if the~e is a Monda of the first cut has since been paper. Y restored. 
The Newspaper Guild, which The Post's latest financial represents about 300 of the crisis came when Bankers Trust Post's 715 employees, approved cut off its credit line last week. the reduction by a voice vote Bankers has refused to say why. 
HAPPY 1.rr BIRTHDAY 
KATHLEEN 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, D.J., TIM, MIKE, AND RADAR 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Account Executives work with clients on a daily basis and should possess good communication skills, a friendly personality and a strong work ethic. 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal state­ment of intent or a resume toMike Hobbs by 5 p.m. Friday, January 29. Contact Mike Hobbs at 1-8840 for more information. 
NEW YORK (AP) -In an eleventh-hour resuscitation ef­fort, reporters and editors at the New York Post accepted a 20 percent pay cut Sunday to keep the nation's oldest contin­uously published daily newspa­per alive. 

• BAHIA MAR HOTEL &CONDOS • • PADRE SOUTH CONDOS • • SHERATON HOTEL &CONDOS• • GULFVIEW CONDOS • • LANDFALL TOWER CONDOS • 
• HOLIDAY INN ·JJ/JQ
-5and7ni~:-YJV / 
• VOYAGER • DESERT INN • 
• THE TEXAN • THE 1" 
• RAMADA INN • ~-~ 
-5 and 7 nights -~ 
fo« 

•TOURWAYINN• ~~1
•THE REEF • 

-5 and 7 nights -fo« 
ALL PRICING FOR ENTIRE STAY-NOT PER NIGHT 
CALL TODAY 
CENTRAL SPRING BREAK ~~ii INFORMATION AND RESERVA T/ONS 
t-800-32t-59tt 
7AM-7PM M·Th, 7AM5PM Fri, 9AM-5PM Sot., Mountain Time
m-=-••

24 HOUR FAX RESERVATIONS (303} 225-1514 
•Depending on break dotes ond length of stay 


Monday, January 25, 1993

page 8 The Observer 
Israel still refuses deportees' return 
.IEHUSALEM lAP) -Israel's Cabinet stood firm Sunday on its refusal to allow nearly 400 Palestinian deportees stranded in Lebanon to return to the oc­cupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
"Any solution will be based on the original decision that those terrorists that were temporarily removed will not be returned," ll1~alth Minister Haim Hamon told rnporters after the weekly Cabinet meeting. 
Israel says the Palestinians are members of radical Muslim groups it blames for the slay­ings of six Israeli soldiers. 
But Lebanon has refused to accept them on its territory, fearing it will become a dump-
Mandela says ANC leadership failed 
.IOIIANNESBUHG, South Africa (AP) -Winnie Mandela launched a bid for power in the ANC on Sunday by a1:cusing its leaders. including her estranged husband, Nnlson Mandela. of failing the black masses. 
"That leadership can, and will, be changed by the peo­ple," Mrs. Mandela wrote in a column that appeared in Sun­day rwwspapers. 
ller comments could start a political war between Mrs. Mandela and her husband, who is the president of the African National Congress. 
Mrs. Mandela was fiery ac­tivist with a strong following in the ANC during Nelson Man­dela's 27-year imprisonment for anti-apartheid activities. She gave up her leadership posts last year after separating from Mandela and following her convietion in the kidnap and assault of four youths. 
But Mrs. Mandela remains an ANC member, and in her remarks she made it clear she had no desire to form a new party and hoped instead to create a powerful role for herself in the organization. 
"I am not about to abandon the ANC to the mercies of elitist politicians," she wrote. 
Interested in Filnts? Directing? Acting? 
HERE'S YOUR CHANCE! 
Get An Early Jump and Start Making Your 
Movies For March 26!!! 
Morrissey Film Festival 
Questions? Call Rian Akey at X3596 or Paul Matthews at X3597 
ing ground for Israeli deporta­tions. The men are living in a tent camp in a no man's land between Israeli and Lebanese army lines. 
The U.N. Security Council condemned the Dec. 17 expul­sions as a violation of interna­tional law. 
The Cabinet decision came despite an Israel survey last week saying 10 of the 18 Cabi­net ministers supported a re­turn of-the deportees. 
Ramon said the television reporter who conducted the survey confused Cabinet sup­port for aid to the deportees as backing for their return. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, who proposed the deportations, was 

"If I have support, I will lo­cate that support within the ANC." 
ANC officials could not be reached for comment. Their oflices were closed on Sunday, and they did not respond to pages. 
Mrs. Mandela's comments were likely to strike a nerve with militant, young blacks who consider the elderly, ANC leaders too moderate and conciliatory to the governing National Party. 

Mrs. Mandela said the "quick-fix solutions sought by our leaders can only benefit a few and ... will plunge the country into yet another vortex of mass violence and protest, this time not against the Na­tional Party but against the new government." 
reportedly outraged at the re­sponses attributed to his minis­ters. 
"We allowed two helicopters from Cyprus to go there," Ra­mon said, referring to the flight of British military helicopters into the camp to bring in medi­cal aid and evacuate four sick men and 13 mistakenly de­ported. 
He acknowledged the gov­ernment had softened its posi­tion on allowing aid into the camp because of increasing world criticism of the deporta­tions. 
But a spokesman for the Palestinians went further, charging that Israel's agree­ment to evacuate 17 of them 
New official language bill protested by Puerto Ricans 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico lAP) -Tens of thousands of people marched Sunday to protest a bill to make both English and Spanish this U.S. territory's of­ficial languages. 
Spanish is currently Puerto Rico's only official language. 
The bill threatens "Puerto Rican nationality," educator Jose Ferrer Canales told a crowd in front of the Capitol building. Police estimated the crowd at 80,000 to 100,000. 
Gov. Pedro Rossello, leader of the pro-statehood New Pro­gressive Party, is sponsoring the bill. It is virtually assured of passage since the legislature is dominated by pro-statehood lawmakers. 
Language and culture is a sensitive issue for Puerto Hi­cans, many of whom are uneasy about what they see as the Americanization of the island. 
R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING 

SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a fresh· By the time you have graduated from man or sophomore, you can still catch college, you'11 have the credentials of up to your classmates by attending an Army officer. You '11 also have Army ROTC Camp Challenge, a the self-confidence and discipline paid six-week summer course in It takes to succeed in college leadership training. and beyond. 


ARMYROTC 
THE SMARTESTCOLLEGE COURSEYOU CANTAKE. 
<:ONTACT CAI.,TAIN SELUNG AT 63l-626!'i FOR MORE INFOHMATION 
was a virtual admission that the mass expulsion was wrong. 
"The move was also an ad­mission by Israel of its full re­sponsibility for the security, safety and physical welfare of the deportees," spokesman Abdul-Aziz Rantisi told re­porters Sunday at the camp. 
"Israel is now bound to take us back, in line with U.N. Secu­rity Council Resolution 799," which demands that Israel repatriate the deportees. he said. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali has hinted he will seek sanctions against Israel if it does not comply. 
Spain colonized Puerto Hico and controlled it for 400 years before ceding it to the United States in 1898. 
"Once again history calls on us to defend our integrity and to reaffirm that the only lan­guage that can represent us as a people is Spanish," said Canales, a professor emeritus at the University of Puerto Rico. 
The march was organized by the small Puerto Rican Inde­pendence Party. Many of those attending carried the one-star, red, white and blue Puerto Ri­can flag. In 1991, a Spanish­only law was pushed through the legislature by then-Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon, who was replaced by Hossello on Jan. 2. His Popular Democratic Party wants Puerto Rico to re­tain commonwealth status with enhanced autonomy. 


Monday, January 25, 1993 The Observer page 9 
: Battle goes on in Yugoslavia 
Saudia Arabia, Iran agree to oil reduction 
ZAGREB, Croatia (AP) ­Croatia said it ended a surprise offensive that shattered a year of calm with rebel Serbs, but fighting raged near the port of Zadar and there were reports of battles farther south Sunday. 
Fierce fighting also was re­ported in eastern Bosnia­Herzegovina, where Muslims forces are trying to clear Bosnian Serb troops from a re­gion along the border with Serbia. Fighting between Mus­lims and Croats was reported in central Bosnia. 
The upsurge in fighting and tough words from leaders of all ethnic factions in the former Yugoslav federation threatened to undo international peace talks and heightened fears of a wider war in the Balkans. 
In Geneva, where leaders of the factions met to discuss a peace plan for Bosnia, Yugoslav President Dobrica Cosic de­manded the U.N. Security Council condemn the Croatian attacks and insisted Croatia 
KUWAIT CITY (AP) -OPEC superpowers Saudi Arabia and Iran have agreed to reduce oil production if necessary to lift
Happy 21st 
sagging prices, the president of the organization said Sunday. 
Alirio Parra, who is also Venezuela's energy and mines minister, came to Kuwait on a
Michael 
Mideast tour aimed at persuad­
ing Gulf oil producing countries 
to cut production to bolster the
Conway 
depressed oil market. 
"So far, we have a broad consensus on the measures we might wish to take," Parra told 
reporters at the airport. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
We love you! 
Hisham Nazer told Parra in Paris on Saturday that the oil 
Dad, Mom, Cara, and 
Mary 
giant was proposing a million­barrel cut in the OPEC produc­
•
r1ters: 
Come hear TheNew York Time<f's twotllne Pulitzer Prizevvinningcolumnist AnthonyLewis speak on the Po-wer of the Press. 
101 DeBartolo at 7:00PM on Tuer1day, January 26. A reception willfollow. 
withdraw its soldiers from ar­eas seized from Serb militants. 
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman said in an interview with Croatian TV that his troops attacked Friday out of frustration over Serb refusals to allow reconstruction of a bridge at Maslenica, northeast of Zadar. 
Before Friday, Serbs held one end of the bridge and Croats the other. The bridge is on the only land route linking Zagreb, Croatia's capital, with the Dalmatia region along the Adriatic coast. 
Croatian troops apparently seized the other end of the bridge and made other gains in territory occupied by the rebels. 
"This action is now over," Tudjman said in the TV inter­view. But he said Croatian troops would not give up their gains. 
He added that the attack was a warning to Croatian Serbs to submit to his government's au­thority or be defeated militarily. 
tion ceiling to remedy the weak oil market. 
Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali al­Baghli said that if the Organi­zation of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed on a produc­tion cut, his country would abide by it. But he stressed that Kuwait needed to produce after a hiatus during the Iraqi inva­sion. 
Parra arrived in Kuwait from Tehran, where Iran President Hashemi Rafsanjani stressed that oil-producing countries must reduce output to drive up prices. 
Rafsanjani told Parra that "a 10 percent decrease in produc­tion will raise prices by 20 per­cent." This, he said, was pos­sible only if OPEC members en­forced quotas set by the cartel. 
Parra has reportedly called on the 12-nation oil cartel to lower production for the second quarter from the 24.58 million 
; 

! j 
) 

!: Alumni Week-It's 
;

J I 1: I ; 
;

not all just Plaid 
I 

January 24-30 : 
~ 
I
,. 
:

How wouldyou like a free Nintcndo? 
I Or how about a cordless phone? Or maybe, a free dinner for two? Then read The Observer for clues to the Alumni Week SCAVENGER HUNT! Clues start Monday, January 25. 
\\,.! l . . ,...,
· · 1at, a :re\V(:Irc l:or savma hl ! 
·v ;,.,..­

During Alumni Week. "'Y hello to the right people on the quads and they may have a big reward for ' you. Free trip to Hawaii? Free Porche? Free ! Rolex? Well maybe not quite that big, but... Tty it · 
and sec;! 

-1: Gotajob?-Then come to career night! 
1 : Meet Notre Dame Alumni from all over the nation and from all walks of life and learn about possible careers in every field imaginable (Plaid consultants available). Thursday, Januaoy 28 from 9 to I 0 I'M 
! li in the Blue• ~oom ~f the North Dining HalL . 
\vhat iS the Dc>olev ,'\wnrd .-,nnv<l';! ! Come find out on Thursi~y. January 28 ;t4:30PM ; at the CSC Coffee House. This year's Dr. Thomas I• A.DooleyAwardrecipients,SeanandJulieO'Bricn i\ will be on hand. By the way, the award is given for ; Distinguished Community Service involvmcnt. . 
Plaid ver~us Students in Volleyball Notre Dame Heisman Trophywinner Angelo Bertilli will test his luck as part ofthe alumni team taking on teams from Student Government and SARG. The volleyball begins at 10:00 PM at the JACC in con­junction with the Late Night Olympic.:>. 
•potworcd by StuJcnl Guvcmmcn/, :,i!f{(,; aJid the 1!/.wrwi IWJ<Jctilltun 
-----------·c_-=.-:::.:-·.=--c:::·=-:.:::·=-:::::-=:.:::·-:;;--"-"--=:..~ 
Serbs, who account for 12 percent of Croatia's population, captured one-third of Croatian territory in a seven-month war in 1991 that erupted after Croatia seceded from Serbia­dominated Yugoslavia. 
At least 10,000 people are thought to have died in the fighting, which was halted by a truce last January. 
Tudjman's spokeswoman, Vesna Skare, said 10 Croatian soldiers were killed and 30 wounded in Friday's fighting. The Serbs reported 29 of their people killed. But Tudjman claimed 120 Serbs were killed. 
Serbs charged that Croatia was massing 20,000 soldiers in the Zadar area and near an­other Serb-held region in cen­tral Croatia. 
Croatian Defense Ministry officials said they were not au­thorized to give any informa­tion. 
barrels agreed in November, to 24 million barrels a day for the April to June period. 
Since some major producers, including Nigeria, Iran and the United Arab Emirates, have ig­nored their quota limits, prices have tumbled to around $17 per barrel, well below OPEC's $21 a barrel benchmark. 
Last year's average price was around $18.50 a barrel. 
Kuwait, racing to restore its pre-Gulf War production of around 2 million barrels a day, is virtually producing on a quota-free basis for the time being. 
Kuwait's oil production was severed during the Iraqi occu­pation from August 1990 to February 1991. During that time, the emirate's oil facilities were either destroyed or severely damaged by the occu­piers. 

Viewpoint 
page 10 
The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor •.•.......... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ....••.•.... Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..........•...•.•.... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ... Anna Marie Tabor Controller ..........•.••.......... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alumni Awareness Week activities to begin today 
Dear Editor: Awareness Week is offering a 
All of us know our Alumni little incentive. Say hello to the Clubs from the infamous "Send­right people and see what hap­off Picnics" but do we really pens! appreciate all the Alumni The Alumni Association Association dons? The Alumni Board members will be avail­Association forms a strong able for career discussions on support network that plays an Jan. 28 from 9 to 10 p.m. in the integral part of our Notre Dame Blue Room of North Dining life both while we are students Hall. Stop in and openly dis­and after graduation. Student cuss any questions about a va­Government and the Student riety of careers. Alumni Relations Group (SARG) This year's Dooley Award re­are co-sponsoring an Alumni cipients, Sean and Julie Awareness Week beginning Jan. O'Brien. will be on campus to 
24. The goal of Alumni discuss their service Awareness Week is to increase involvement. They'll be awarenoss of the Alumni Asso­available on Thursday, Jan. 28 ciation on campus and encour­at 4:30 p.m. at the CSC Coffee age student-alumni interaction. House. 
The week kicks off with a SAHG and Student Govern­scavenger hunt. .. the winner ment will take on an Alumni gets a choice of prizes: a cord­volleyball team during Late less phone, dinner for two or Night Olympics. The games Nintendo! Daily clues can be begin at 10 p.m. at the JACC. found in a special box in The The bigger the crowd, the bet­Observer. Eager searchers can ter! pick up an extra clue at the If you have any questions, Alumni Association office (201 contact the Student Govern­Administration Building) any ment office or the Alumni As­time throughout the week. sociation. Have a great time! 
Not so long ago there was a tradition on campus of saying Christy E. Frederick hello to everyone you passed on Alumni Relations Com­the quads. In an attempt to re­missioner Student Government vive this tradition, Alumni Jan.22,1993 

DOONESBURY 
Coming 'back' or coming 'home'? 

Dear Editor: 
I got the big brown leathery mitt for my birthday. It was too big, all the kids said so, but I had already broken it in and no store would take back a too big mitt that was fairly dripping conditioner. It hung from my wrist to my knees. Getting it up to catch a ball was an effort and when everyone started screaming for me to "Go back! Go back!" I had to run and fumble with that mitt. I had one heck of a time spotting the ball in the sky from behind my massive ball-cap. Not to mention that I couldn't run very well. But I caught it. And I kept going back. 
On the baseball field, it's much easier to determine when you're "Going back" and when you're "Going home". I was on a train to Paris when I figured that one out. I asked the guy I was traveling with where we were going. "Where are we going?" I asked. 
"We're going back to Paris." 
"To do what?" 
He looked at me in a puzzled sort of way. "So we can go home." 
Sure enough, in under twelve hours, I was sitting on a lawn chair in my backyard in New Jersey. I was home. I was back home. Ha ha. The grass felt good and long between my toes. MTV was still on channel 10. There were big paper cartons of milk in the refrigerator. The magazines in the bathroom were the same ones I had read many months ago. My mother was nagging me. Nothing had changed. I was home. 
I thought about all the kids I knew who had gone home be­fore us. They went home to Poughkeepsie, Pittsburgh and Pierre. And Copenhagen, Oslo, Birmingham, Vienna, Venice, and Hong Kong. Were they all just as relieved, just as familiar with their homes, as I was with mine? I kind of figured they were. What was it that made home home and not just some place to which I went back? 
I had a small room in France. The most miserable thing about the whole year was the end of holidays and the sight of that room. The silver train would slowly hiss away from the quay and I'd walk down the maudlin streets to that natty cell. 
I never ever felt that I was going home. I lived there for almost an entire year. I spent rainy Sundays writing at the huge wood desk that took up a whole corner. I had people over for dinner. I had mail sent there. And I never ever went home to it. I always went back to it. 
Back to school. Home to 
school? Almost. I like my room a lot. I love the people around me. I'd be lost without them. I used to think I enjoyed solitude. That it allowed me to imagine and create. Then I lived alone for a year. Now it would be im­possible for me to go it alone. The only thing that makes my room not home is the fact that I have to give it back at the end of the year. And then, if I do well next year, they won't let me back at all. 
When I can no longer come back here, I hope to go back there. To Europe. I'll go on long walks through parks and maybe sit in a cafe and watch all the people watching all the people go by. I loved the atmosphere during my stay. The glamour. Every store, every boulevard could have been from a movie and all the girls looked like movie stars. But I think the nicest thing about Europe, about the movie, was that it ended. And I got to go home. 
Jonathan M. Walsh Morrissey Hall Jan.20,1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
JQtiN/8~ BLASTFROM 71-1£ 
HI, IT'S ·• m57;m? H£~ 
BARJ<UY IRf.AOA80UT 
81:31WAUER.' YOUR. APPOINT­I M£NTIN7H8 P()5J.I CXJN5RA~I 
uq-rm, I WAS 
7HINI</N5 -UJ/3 
7HATf.a.k3?

17 YeARS, 
7Hff/VW/3910UU? 13131 7D­
IN FACT. 

(j(ffTAt:V 1!'58CEIYA6&5.' 
Ge!H&R.5lJM£77Me. 
tuNCH/

\ f 
'The fixed determination to 
acquire the warrior soul, and to have acquired it to either conquer or perish with honor, is the secret of victory.' 
George S. Patton 

Submit or perish in silence: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Monday, January 25, 1993 page 11 
'Vietnam syndrome' replaced by 'Iraq syndrome' 
Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 
From about 1970 until the war against Iraq, Americans suffered from what has been called "the Vietnam Syndrome." We tended to be unreasonably pessimistic and cynical about any use of American military power, particularly in the Third World. 
We had "learned the lessons of Vietnam": ideology has no place in foreign policy, Ameri­can use of military force is nearly always imperialist and oppressive, military force is too costly and inefficient to use as a foreign policy tool, American military leaders are generally untrustworthy and incompe­tent, and so on. However, as George Bush accurately pointed out two years ago, "America has kicked the Vietnam Syn­drome." 
Now many Americans, most notably and ironically Bill Clin­ton. are suffering from what might be called the Iraq Syn­drome. Impressed by the spec­tacular military and political performance of the U.S. in the war against Iraq, these Ameri­cans now seemingly believe that American forces can effectively eliminate injustice around the world with ·few costs or repercussions. 
Somewhat inconsistently, they also believe that this can be done on a sharply reduced defense budget. As history and current events demonstrate, these are dangerous miscon­ceptions. 
Bill Clinton, ironically a Viet­nam protester and draft dodger, appears to be one of those most seriously affected by the Iraq Syndrome. He has hinted openly that he supports American military action, uni­lateral if necessary, in Bosnia, Haiti, and Liberia for starters. He also says that the five-year decline in defense spending can simultaneously be accelerated. 
All American military actions over the past ten years, particu­larly in Iraq, should have come with large disclaimers reading "Warning: Experts being shown. Do not try this yourself. " These actions were all military successes and looked easy in retrospect, but they were also risky and very controversial abroad. 
But for the exceptional com­petence (and luck) of the Rea­gan and Bush administrations in defense and foreign policy, things could have turned out quite differently. Carter's failed hostage rescue mission to Iran and Reagan's early disaster in Lebanon are both small exam­ples of what can happen when Presidents and the people around them are overconfident, make mistakes, or both. Vietnam is a large example. 
Whatever the strengths of the Clinton administration, foreign policy is not among them. As Bush uncharitably, but accu­rately, said of Clinton and Gore, "Millie the dog has more foreign policy experience than either of those bozos." 
Neither has ever been directly involved in any foreign affairs decision-making. Clinton has nominated Warren Christopher, a political operative and lawyer, for Secretary of State, overlooking the few Democrats 
(e.g. Sam Nunn) who are actually qualified for the job. 
The only bright spot in Clin­ton's foreign policy team is Secretary of Defense Les Aspin, whose budget Clinton has promised to slash. At present, the Clinton administration is simply not capable of dealing with any significant foreign cri­sis, and Bill Clinton does not realize it. 
Moreover, all of the foreign adventures Clinton has en­dorsed have serious risks. Bosnia, for instance, is no Iraq. 
It is mountainous and heavily forested, making air strikes relatively ineffective and giving guerrillas plenty of cover from which to attack ground troops. Serbs, Croats, and Muslims are virtually indistinguishable to outsiders, making it difficult to distinguish friends from ene­mies. 
Perhaps most troubling, that area has a long history of em­barrassing foreign armies. The Nazi army, one of the best in history, initially sent 50,000 troops to occupy Yugoslavia. These troops suffered heavy losses and low morale due to sabotage and guerrilla warfare. Elite Luftwaffe and artillery made repeated air strikes and bombardments, without no­ticeable results. 
Hitler eventually had 200,000 troops in Yugoslavia, but even these were no match for Mar­shal Tito's resistance. The Turks and Austrians had similar problems earlier. As one retired general recently said, "If you liked Vietnam, you'll love Bosnia." 
Haiti and especially Liberia also raise concerns, though these are primarily political. Given the chaos in these coun­tries, the U.S. could well have to govern them in a basically colonial fashion for years if it intervenes. This could easily be expensive, and would certainly grate on sensitive post-colonial nerves in the Third World. 
Even continued action against Iraq is growing politi­cally risky. Third World nations, even coalition members, are beginning to loudly question whether Iraq's misbehavior justifies such harsh in­fringements on its sovereignty as total sanctions and no-fly zones over two-thirds of its territory. 
Even Turkey and Saudi Ara­bia, America's two closest Mus­lim allies, refused to take part in the recent raids on Iraq or even to open their airfields to attacking planes. 
In short, Bill Clinton's Iraq Syndrome has made him over­confident to the point where he is willing to cut the defense budget even further and, de­spite his total inexperience, in­tervene in places where George Bush fears to tread. Unless things change, the Clinton ad­ministration will be an accident waiting to happen. 
Rick Acker is a 1992 graduate of the Notre Dame Law School and is currently doing research there. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-abortion people hide behind label of 'pro-choice' 
Bill Bradley, a Hhodes Scholar, quences. will serve as an example. When • They choose to give the fa­I asked him in a town meeting if ther no choice in determining
permitting the mother to declared this arbitrary morality. to not protecting human life.
he was aware that real time the livelihood of the baby.
determine if her child is human, He voiced the same verbatim
ultrasound depicts babies • Worst of all, they choose to
but anti-choice in permitting a replies as his mentor/boss. By the same rationale that
screaming and writhing in pain ensure no protection, choice or
slave owner to determine insists that a hunter unmistak­
as they are being dismembered future to the baby as they de­
whether or not his slave is hu­Furthermore, Mr. Silverman ably identify his prey and en­
in a "safe and legal" abortion, mand the right to a lethal, arti­
man (This is the belief that was told me that the definition of life sure that it is not human, we
he responded with the ficial and violent intrusion into
held by slave owners in the is legal and political not moral are compelled to give any bene­
stereotypical pro-choice re­the natural biological processes
1860s). or philosophical. I asked him fit of doubt regarding person­
sponse. set in motion since conception. 
"On what basis do you make hood to the baby. How terrible Responding like an ostrich such claims?" Of course, he would it be for the hunter to
He said abortion is an ex­Oppression is always marked
with perfect head-in-the-sand had no basis. I then asked him find out later that indeed he
tremely personal issue and re­by those with power exploiting
form, Bradley said he rejects "What if the legal and political killed a human being! Certainly
flects the values genuinely and the powerless. In the case of
the analogy. He totally refused definition of life excluded those it would be ridiculous to give
deeply held by the individual. abortion, the powerless are
to logically address the issue! above 60 years? Would there the hunter the freedom to
And because this is so. he given death because they are an
He made no attempt to apply then be no protection for these choose for himself whether the
claimed that people should have inconvenience. Surely abortion
cognitive morality to such a non humans?" object in the cross hairs of his 
the freedom to make the choice is so great an evil that we must
significant human rights issue! sights is human.
for themselves. not allow it to be a choice.
Clearly logic interferes with He of course saw the dangers 
Furthermore, we need not
Bradley's bias and so he elects (and stupidity) of his position, Likewise, the abortionist
Could not the same rhetoric frame the abortion issue as
to be illogical. What a danger­but made no attempt to provide viewing the object with a beat­
be said for any other issue? Is "pro-choice" and "anti-choice". ,,.
ous arbitrary morality he a non-contradictory moral code. ing heart and human DNA dis­
not one of the main functions of We have a choice to accept or
espouses! What future evils are Mr. Silverman chose to cling to played in the ultrasound, ought
governmental law to insure that reject the framing of the abor­
we inviting by electing politi­his contradictory morals rather not to have the liberty to decide
one's rights end where tion issue. 
cians with such an arbitrary than to consider changing his for himself to dismember the
another's nose begins? Bradley morality? morals and build a logically baby. Just as government in­
chose to dodge the issue I have chosen to frame the
consistent position. I suppose it sists that the hunter be certain
completely. He has failed to camps as either "pro-abortion"
In step with the pro-choice is not "politically correct" for that he is not shooting people, 
address the distinctives of the -insuring that the baby has no
ideology, Bradley chose not to these career politicians to think. government too must insist that
abortion issue and to protect governmental protection, or
give the deserving logical ethi­doctors do not abort babies. •
human rights in the womb. "pro-life" -upholding human
cal consideration to the most A more reasonable position
(Incidently, a real time ultra­rights to the most vulnerable
significant human rights issue than Bradley's or Silverman's These examples illustrate the
sound of an abortion can be and defenseless members of our
facing America today -life. would be to say that we are not choices that pro-choice people 
viewed on video, The Silent society. Having reframed the
totally sure if life begins at con­are interested in making. In
Scream. by Dr. Bernard issue, I am furthermore proud
Dissatisfied with the Senator's ception than to arbitrarily legis­summary, let us note their
Nathanson; MD.Ob-gyn; from to declare that I have chosen to 
response, I spoke to one of late that life begins at birth. choices:
American Portrait Films Inc.; align with the pro-life camp. 
Bradley's spokesmen on abor­But if this is one's position, then • They choose to abandonCleveland, Ohio) tion, Mr. Silverman. I was wouldn't it be ethically impera­logic as they defend their view 
Pieder Beeli 

frightened to hear Mr. Silver­tive that society give the benefit (Most frequently they simply put
My wife then asked Bradley to Notre Dame Graduate Student 
man share the same head-in­of the doubt to the baby? Fail­their head in the sand and
explain why he is pro-choice in South Bend, In.
the-sand philosophy as he too ing to do so could be equivalent regurgitate the pro-choice po-


Accent 
page 12 Monday, January 25, 1993 

ND students attend the festivities surrounding Clinton's inauguration 
By EMILY HAGE and SARAH her internship, she was able to attend the Democratic National
DORAN 
Convention in New York City.
Accent Writers 
When Clinton was elected in November, she immediatelyNotre Dame students and contacted Prior to see if sheClinton supporters Kathleen could obtain Inauguration
Ziegler and Cara Conway wit­tickets. Soon after, he sent hernessed history first hand last 
two reserved tickets for theWednesday as both watched 
swearing in ceremony. 

President Clinton take the in­The first of inauguration week 
augural oath from their seats in the shadow of the Capitol building. 
'There was such a strong 

"I didn't anticipate how excit­
sense of patriotism and ing it would be. When he actu­
pride in the city.

ally took the oath, the crowd went wild, hugging and crying. Everyone from cabdrivers to random onlookers spoke of how 
'I didn't anticipate how this inauguration was justexciting it would be. 
so exhilarating.'

When he actually took the oath, the crowd went 
-Kathleen Ziegler
wild, hugging and crying.' 
activities that Zeigler attended was the Arkansas State

-Cara Conway 
Delegation Party which took

-place Monday night. The party was open to all Arkansas resi­
It was very intense to be there," 
dents who had only to show

said Conway, a Farley Hall 
their drivers licenses to be

sophomore. 
admitted.

She said that the atmosphere at the nation's capital on Jan­
Zeigler's goal of the week was uary 20th was very positive. 

to attend the Arkansas Ball
"People were very friendly and Wednesday night. The ball said 
approachable. Everyone was 
she described as "a big zoo," Lady, and even heard Clinton nee Pavilion on Pennsylvania to be the most popular of thevery excited to be there." 
and a more private Illinois join jazz saxophonist Ben King Avenue, where she heard Rex in Inauguration festivities, andThough "there were a lot of 
party. in playing "Your Momma Don't Effect and Marky Mark. "It was definitely the most difficult tometal detectors," she said that 
On Wednesday, Conway spent Dance." nothing like a concert. We were get tickets to. She achieved this she "felt close" to the parade as most of her time with a woman Other entertainment included only 10 to 15 feet away from goal when a man gave her aonlookers shouted, "We want whom she describes as Hillary's Michael McDonald, Bruce Marky," said Conway. free ticket to the ball which sheBill!" 
"first friend." "It was kind of Hornsby, Kenny Loggins, Bar­said was "definitely the high­fun to have a military escort bara Streisand, Judy Collins, Arkansas resident and NO light of the week." 
As her father's "date," Con­and driver with a walkie-talkie and Carole King. Kenny G. was senior Zeigler found Inaugura­way had a busy itinerary for the and a uniform," said Conway. also there, but did not perform. tion week festivities equally ex­"Watching Clinton up on stagetwo days she was in Wash­Guests at the ball were mostly iting. "There was such a strong playing the saxophone with Benington, D.C. The head of Illinois The Wednesday night excite­those people who were sense of patriotism and pride in King was just fantastic. It wasLawyers for Clinton and a ment began with the Mas­seriously involved in the cam­the city. Everyone from cab quite a night. There was so
friend of President Clinton's 
sachusetts party at the Ritz paign. "There was an interest­drivers to random onlookers much Arkansas state pride at
from their days at Yale Law 
Carlton, where Conway saw Se­ing mix of people," said Con­spoke of how this inauguration the ball and just throughout the School, Cara's father escorted 
nator Ted Kennedy and feminist way. was just so exhilarating," she week, it was great. It felt likeher to some of the hottest spots activist Gloria Steinem, followed said. the whole state just picked upin town. 
by the Arkansas Ball at the Con­The festivities continued for Zeigler interned for Senator and left for D.C. and was vention Center downtown. Conway at the Ball After the David Prior, D-Ark, over the rumored that 40,000-50,000
On Tuesday night, she at­
At the Arkansas Ball, she saw Ball, a celebration for "the summer, working in his residents did actually come totended the Illinois Ball, which the new President and First younger crowd" at the Post Of-Washington, D.C. office. During the Inauguration," said Zeigler. 
New HPC monthly projects to provide ongoing service to South Bend residents 
By JOE MONAHAN 
Accent Writer 
While most students spent their Sundays resting up for the upcoming week, HPC members spent theirs working and help­ing their community by partici­pating in a new service project. At one site students painted and helped renovate the house of an elderly man, while just down the street students helped to clean out the house of an elderly woman to make way for contractors who will renovate the house. 
These students participated in a new HPC project started by Stanford Hall president Frank Flynn. Yesterday's project was the first in a series of monthly initiatives in which students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's can help rebuild the northeast neighborhood of South Bend, better known to students as the region around Lafayette Square. 
Sunday's project consisted of approximately 16 HPC members working at two different sites, but future initiatives will be larger, including anywhere from 20-25 members, and will be opened to anyone who is interested. 

"It would be nice for Lafayette Square students especially to help out next month, consider­ing they live in the area, but after Sunday it's open to every­one," said Flynn. 
The HPC Service Project works closely with the Neighborhood Housing Services, a federal agency located in the South Bend area. The NHS locates possible sites while HPC provides the funding and the people. 
HPC Service Project gets its funding from the newly created HPC Service Fund, which was created using surplus money from sales of The Shirt and cur­rently has around $25,000 available for studeqt use. 
"The purpose of the fund is to help build an awareness in Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to be socially responsible.The fund gives students the means to go out and accomplish this." said Flynn. 
The money from the fund can be used for one-time student initiatives, providing that they are original and not affiliated with another organization. Students who are interested can contact HPC secretary Patricia Stanford and submit a short proposal, which then must be approved by HPC. 
"Now that we've created the fund the only thing that remains is to get the message out to peo­ple and make them aware that the money is available; all they need to do is show the initiative to use it," said Flynn. 


-------·-----­Monday, January 25, 1993 
The Observer page 13 
Mirer throws two interceptions in Shrine 
(API -In college football's last showcase of the season for seniors, two running backs from the East upstaged a pair of big­name quarterbacks. 
Virginia's Terry Kirby ran for two touchdowns and Boston College's Chuckie Dukes led all rushers with 62 yards on 13 carries Sunday as the East got its first Shrine Game victory in four years, 31-17 over the West. 
Kirby, the Cavaliers' career rushing leader, scored on runs of 7 and 1 yards in the first half, finishing with 34 yards on 13 carries, as the East dominated despite committing five turnovers. The West had won the last three contests and five of the last six. 
"I wanted to play hard," Kirby said. 'Tm normally a tailback but I had to play fullback today. It's like a foreign language, but it was a matter of making the adjustments, which I did." 
Kirby was complemented by Dukes. named the game's out­standing offensive player. They stole the spotlight from their team's quarterback tandem, lleisman Trophy winner Gino Torretta of Miami and Notre Dame's Rick Mirer. 
Coming on the heels of his 
thren-interception Sugar Bowl 
flop, Torretta was steady in 
front of dozens of pro scouts, completing 9 of 16 passes for 69 yards with one interception. Mirer struggled, hitting 7 of 16 for 105 yards with two inter­ceptions, but engineered the flashiest play of the game, a 60­yard pass to Walter Dunson of Middle Tennessee State. 
"I thought I did real well," said Torretta, also playing in front of 500 fans from his nearby hometown of Pinole. "On a couple of deep throws we weren't on the same page as far as timing, but I was in a couple of series, then out a couple, and I'm not used to the receivers I was throwing to." 
Trailing 21-17 at halftime, the West didn't get going in the second half, its first drive killed when Chris Hutchinson of Michigan sacked Washington's Mark Brunell for a 12-yard loss. The defense, which made several big plays in the first half, seemed to run out of gas in the second. 
"We just couldn't generate something in the second half," West coach Rich Brooks of Oregon said. "We left the de­fense on the field too long. They ate up a lot of the clock in the second half, and we just couldn't do anything about it. 
"They ran the ball well and got a little bit more pressure on our quarterback." 
Brunell was 7 of 15 for 89 yards and one touchdown with one interception, and Weber State's Jamie Martin threw for 67 yards and one touchdown with an interception. 
The West was led by Arizona State linebacker Brett Wallerst­edt, the game's outstanding defensive player, with 13 tack­les and a fumble recovery. 
Daron Alcorn of Akron kicked a 31-yard field goal to put the East up 24-17 with 7:23 left in the third quarter. On its next possession, the East put the game away following Mirer's 60-yard strike to Dunson. A 1­yard run by Clemson's Rudy Harris made it 31-17 with 14:23 remaining. 
In the first half, the East overcame four turnovers, in­cluding a fumble at the goal line by Dukes inside the last two minutes of the quarter. That ended a 70-yard drive after the West scored on a 16-yard strike by Martin to Arizona State tight end Bob Brasher with 5:48 left in the half. 
Texas Tech's Tracy Saul inte­cepted a pass by Torretta on the game's opening drive, setting up a 40-yard scoring pass from Brunell to Eric Guliford of 

photo coutesy of Texas A&M sports information Texas A&M's Derrick Frazier was the recipient of two errant throws by Rick Mirer. Mirer was 9-16 for 1 05 yards and two interceptions. 
Arizona State on the next play. The ensuing drive stalled at the 
But the West turned it over on East 31 and Hawaii kicker Ja­its next possession when Russell son Elam's 48-yard field goal White of California fumbled and gave the West a 10-7 advantage Rutgers linebacker Shawn with 7:23 left in the first quar­Williams returned it 30 yards to ter. tie the game with 12:05 left in the first quarter. Torretta put the East back on 
Mirer gave the West the ball top 14-10 with a 61-yard drive again when Texas A&M's Der­capped by Kirby's 7-yard rick Frazier picked off a pass. touchdown run. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Lost: Girls "Kubasaki H.S." class ring and mens gold neck chain during the nile of the snowball fight  I FOR RENT  WANTED: Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call284·3814  Summer jobs and internships­University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come  
most likely on South Quad. Huge  FOR RENT: 4 bed/2bath hOuse on  telephone directories, is  true. Full-time parenting. Best of the  
TYPING 287·4082  sentimental value. REWARD.  Corby St. (walking distance to ND)  interviewing goal oriented students  city; summers by the beach: your  - 
Please call Ryan @x1691.  available as soon as June for 93/94  I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs!  for a challenging, full-time summer  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy  
'SENIORS'  year. Call Kevin (317) 685-2926  GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235  position. Gain valuable experience  fireplace in winter, and by ocean  
SENIORITIS WEEK  in advertising, sales and public  waves in summer. Art, music, the  
Tues-Dinner at Chi-Chi's  LOST: HANOWA watch at  I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs!  relations. Average earnings $3.900.  best education, endless love. Call  
50% off appetizers & more  BRIDGET'S on Thursday of final's  2br. Apts  GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235  Expense paid training program in  Franny or Stephen collect.  
week-black band, white face,  4 blocks from ND  Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may  (212)369-2597.  
Thurs-Chicago Scavenger Hunt  small seconds hand. IF FOUND,  $350 a month  I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs!  be available. Interviews on campus  
$12 includes bus & great Prizes  CALL TREY at X1453  Newly Remodeled  GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235  February 3rd. Information and  SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93!  
232-8256  interview sign-up available today at  JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469  
Fri-Senior Lunch  Lost: Ladies' Gold Watch before  CP &P Services · Hesburgh Library  FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE  
Finals. All gold. Scratch in top right  I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs!  or call 1·800-743-5556.  GROUP TRAVEL FREE! HURRAY,  
Sat-Pre Super Bowl Party  corner.  3 BEDROOM HOUSE  GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235  LIMITED SPACE.  
Sr. Bar9-2  Great Sentimental Value.  $490 MONTH + $300 DEP.  SUN SPLASH TOURS  
FREE DOMINO'S PIZZA  Please Call Amy x4530.  SECURITY SYSTEM  1·800-426-7710.  
cheap nachos and other specials,  232-3616  NEED 2 tickets to Kentucky game ­ AVOID THE RUSH!!!!  
Pizza Football Pool  call Aaron x 1764  Give your sweetie a Valentine's Day  '"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS!  
LOST: N.D. VARSITY  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  message, but don't wait until the  BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10  
Sat·Sun-SKI TRIP  LEDERMAN'S JACKET AND  219-291-7153.  Who's your basketball coach?!  last minute to type it in!! Classifieds  MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH  
Timber Ridge  PLAID SCARF-PLEASE RETURN,  Who's your basketball coach?!  can be placed anytime between  KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249,  
$35 includes bus, lift ticket, & hotel  NO QUESTIONS ASKED.  FURNISHED ROOM.  Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3  now and Feb. 11 at 3:00 in The  DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149,  
Rentals $12  CALLJIMAT x1066  $170/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS.  basketball tix to the Kentucky  Observer office (3rd floor  CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459,  
287-2159.  WildCATastrophe due to take place  LaFortune).  JAMAICA $479! 1-800-678-6386.  
Bulls vs. Knicks Lottery  Found Wed. 20 Jan. >>set of  in the month de amor. Be a pal,  
$1 lottery tickets  two Chrysler keys on ring.  samaritan, or whatever and sell him  JUMPIN'G- 
Buy in LaFortune  Nothing else on keyring. To  For Rent  the tickets or one of his Italian  1 WORKED YOU OVER ON THE  
Winners can buy 2 tix for the game  claim call Kirsten at 4185.  Notre Dame Apts.  relatives might pay you a visit. Then  '"""SUPER SUNDAY""'"  COURT LIKE I WORKED YOUR  
Feb. 12  -Newly Remodeled 2Br Apts  the time for haggling will be over.  at SUBWAY  MOM LAST NIGHT!  
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's  WANTED  -Great Rental Rates Start at $400/mth.  Call Skip at x2052 and leave a message if he ain't around.  Let us serve your game party.  
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­ Call 232-8256  Buy two footlongs,  Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on  
2342 ND Ave & Howard  Bridget's is now taking apps.  KENTUCKY GAME  Get third  Luxury Yachts Seven day Island  
Must be 21 and able to work  NEED 4 TIX  FREE!  Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin  
RAPID WORDPROCESSING Call Lori at 271·0754  now thru next school year. Apply in person at Sp.m. on  FOR SALE  $$$$$$$$$$$$ CALL MIKE@ 1719  6 ft. party subs as low as $37.95!  & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 1 /800-999-SAIL(7245)  
Wed, Thurs. or Fri.  
FURNITURE. MUST SELL!  SR 23 & Ironwood  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ CALL 3234  I need DUKE & KENTUCKY  277-7744  FOR ALL OF YOU MEATHEADS  
50,000,000  Earn $2000+/month + world travel  tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris  WHO THINK THEY CAN TELL  
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean,  1 00 Watt stereo with receiver and  x1235.  EVERYONE ELSE TO STAY OUT  
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  amplifier. 15" speakers.excellent  Spring Break! Daytona Beach!  OF THE GYM, WHY DON'T YOU  
'SENIORS'  employment available. No  sound, perfect condition. call 271­ help  Ocean Front Hotels: Quad  GET SOME KIND OF HINT ABOUT  
experience necessary. For  1443  i need 1 duke ticket  Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: VIP  REALITY AND GET YOUR MEATY  
CONTESTANTS NEEDED FOR  employment program call  call julie x3736  Discount!ID card ... Round trip  HEADS OUT OF THE ROCK.  
THE SR. DATING GAME  1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584  1983 Ford Escort for sale. Great  charter bus from $199.50 per  
Don't be lazy, just be crazy!  condition. Call 291-6681.  person!!! Room only available from  Scott- 
Pick up applications in the Sr. Class  DRUMMER needed to play all  I NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS.  $109.50 per person. Limited  The way I beat you in hoops is like  
Office  kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273  Call Kelly at x4121.  Availability!!!  taking candy from a baby.  
Stereo for sale. Dual cassette,  1-800-881-BEACH.  
Student Painters is interested in  turntable, AM-FM stereo. Graphic  I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS  
hiring highly motivated students to  equalizer. Needs speakers. Call  MARY X2862  Happy Birthday Marjean­ 
DAYTONA'"DAYTONA  manage their own bus. we offer  Sandy at 233-2407.  Guillermo,  our favorite BLONDE!!!  
management training, credit  NEED 4 TICKETS TO THE  You cannot avoid me forever.  
CHEAP  backing, and a full support staff  DUKE/N.D. GAME. CALL JOHN AT  know aren't as rude as you seem.  Love,  
GROUP RATES  earning pot. $8,000. join the most  MAC CLASSIC II -4MB Ram  232-2944.  Bill, Hillary, and Chelsea  
callx2466  successful painting co. in Indiana  BOMB HD, math coprocessor,  -LaBeige  
call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom  misc. software, network  I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for  
DAYTONA"'DAYTONA  Smith.  cables. Still under warrantee.  Kentucky-Brian x1 069  

 Call Jim at 272-1365 to ask ?'s  HAPPY BIRTHDAY. MOMMY!  
ILOST & FOUND I  ANYONE GOING TO D.C.???? the weekend of 1/29 or 2/12 Call  or to place bid. Will sell to best offer received by Wed Jan 27.  Need one Duke or Kent ticket. Student or GA. Call Brian at 1194.  Hi Rich!! love, JEanne  I miss you!!! Love,  
Allison at X4758 or 4721  So, Sabol, what were you REALLY  Sash a  
LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS  SONY receiver:Dolby surr. sound  PERSONAL  doing on Thursday Night?  
LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  60+ 1 Ow/ch. Still in box great deal  
THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI  @$200 Call Chris x3830  Hey La,  Thank you Eileen 0 for getting us  
X4209.  I need a ride to MIAMI(OH.)  PLAN AHEAD!!  our Miss Saigon tickets!  
LOST: Key Chain with 2 keys.  UNIVERSITY any weekend  TICKETS  STAYING here for the SUMMER?  Happy Birthday!! Hope. you learn some more new words in your 22nd  
Chain contains bronze dolphin, red  Will help pay for gas  year! Have a fun day -enjoy that  Happy Birthday Duane! Hope your  
Swiss Army knife, compass, and a  Sub-lease our apartment at  gorgeous 5th grade photo. Just  twenty second year (the year of the  
flashlight. Great Sentimental Value.  Call BRIAN 4-2081  WANTED:  CASTLE POINT- remember, it could have been Kris!!  Rooster) is wonderful. Have a great  
Call Kevin at X1761  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets.  day!  
Please call 284-3814  CALL TODAY x4673  heh-heh-heh  Love, 345,341,343,349, and 351!!!  





page 14 
Wells' three-pointer leads FSU past Duke 
(AP) -Maybe Duke should just stop playing on Sundays. 
The sixth-ranked Blue Devils 
lost for the third consecutive Sunday when Byron Wells of 
·~ 
I, 
-..~ 
AP Photo Mike Kryzewski watched his team lose its third game of the season. 
Cal gets uncharacteristic win at Pauley 
(AI') -While most nyes in Pauley Pavilion were on Jason Kidd on the perimeter, Alfred Grigsby and Brian llendriek stole tlw show inside and Cali­fornia beat No. 23 UCLA 104-82 Sunday. 
The win was just the second evnr for the Bears in Pauley Pavilion, whieh opened for the 1965-66 snason. California (9-4, 3-2 Pac-1 0) won there for the first time in 1990 and that broke a 30-year winless drought in Los Angeles. 
Grigsby almost had his ca­reer-high at halftime as the Bears took a 56-40 lead cour­tesy of a 17-0 run late in the half. The sophomore forward had 17 points in the first half and finished with 23. lie had scored 19 points twice in ca­reer, the first time last season against UCLA (12-5, 3-3). 

laS 
I I 
I 

..... 
-... Come and solve the Mystery 
January 27, 1993 8:00pm 
LaFortune Ballroom (formerly Theodore's) 
1st prize $1 00
.j 
100% audience 

participation 
,~tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information desk for $3
---....

~
------~
~ sponsored by Student Activities 
Florida State drained a long 3­pointer with 3.6 seconds left in overtime to give the Seminoles an 89-88 victory. 
Duke lost last Sunday to Vir­ginia, and dropped its first game of the season the previ­ous Sunday to Georgia Tech. The Blue Devils (13-3, 3-3 At­lantic Coast Conference) now have more losses this season than they had all of last year, when they were 34-2 and won the national championship. 
Wells, a senior who scored the Seminoles' final five points, intercepted a pass by Bobby Hurley with 20 seconds left and Duke leading 88-86. 
When Florida State's Sam Cassell was unable to shake loose, Wells got the ball deep in the left corner for the game­winning shot. 
"It's something I'll be able to tell my grandkids about," said the 6-10 Wells. 
Hendrick, a senior center, also finished with 23 points. 
In the first half, he and Grigsby combined to make 11 of 13 shots from the field and grabbed seven rebounds as the Bears dominated inside with a 22-12 rebound advantage. 
Kidd, the highly regarded freshman guard from Oakland, wasn't too shabby in his first game at UCLA as he finished with 11 points. 
When UCLA made its one run in the second half to get within 75-62 with 11:09 to play, Kidd returned from a brief rest on the bench and made a long bounce pass on the break to Lamond Murray for a layup to start a 10-0 run that he capped with a jumper in the lane with 
9:46 to play. Murray finished with 18 

The Observer 

1 Kansas(18) 16-1 823 1 2 Nor1h Carolina (12) 16-1 804 4 3 Indiana 17-2 797 2 4 Kentucky 13-1 745 6 5 Michigan 15-2 726 5 6 Cincinnati 13-1 623 8 7 Duke 13-3 612 3 8 Arizona 11-2 579 1 9 Nevada-Las Vegas 11-1 535 1 1 0 Seton Hall 15-3 502 9 11 Iowa 12-3 458 13 12 Arkansas 12-3 396 7 13 Vanderbilt 14-3 386 19 14 Virginia 11-2 336 10 15 Purdue 11-3 333 14 16 Connecticut 9-4 291 15 17 Georgia Tech 10-4 273 16 18 Pittsburgh 13-2 266 19 Oklahoma 12-5 257 20 Florida State 13-5 210 21 Utah 14-2 194 22 Georgetown 11-3 161 23 UCLA 12-5 113 24 Wisconsin 10-4 73 25 Xavier, Ohio 12-2 47 
points. Shon Tarver led UCLA with 21 points and Ed O'Bannon added 17. 
California looked like it had taken control at the outset with a 15-2 run that gave the Bears a 26-11 lead with 12:44 left in the first half. UCLA scored the next seven points as part of a 9­2 run that had the Bruins within 28-27 with 9:43 left. 
The 17-0 run started with a short jumper by Murray that made it 33-29 with 8:29 left. Murray was fouled on the play but missed the free throw. Kidd snuck in, grabbed the rebound and laid it in. Hendrick and Grigsby then scored the rest of the points in the run, which ended when Hendrick picked up a loose ball and laid it in for a 48-29 lead with 4:45 left in the half. 
Monday, January 25, 1993 

North Carolina wins top ten clash with Seton Hall 
(AP) -If defenses win championships, then expect to see No. 3 North Carolina and No. 10 Seton Hall in the Final Four in a couple of months. 
North Carolina won a defen­sive duel at Meadowlands Arena on Sunday, emerging with a 70-66 victory as Eric Montross scored 8 of his 13 points in the closing minutes to help the Tar Heels win their eighth straight. 
George Lynch added a sea­son-high 25 points for North Carolina, but the defensive numbers put up by both teams were even more impressive. 
North Carolina (16-1) forced Seton Hall (15-3) into a season­high 23 turnovers and held Terry Dehere to just 10 points (almost 13 below his average) in ending the Pirates' 17 -game winning streak here. 
Seton Hall held North Carolina to season lows in points, field goals made (23), field goals attempted (52), 3­pointers attempt11d (5), :{-point­ers made (1). defensive re­bounds ( 16). overall rebounds 
(26) and first-half points (30). 
The Tar Heels, who had been hitting 54.1 percent from the field, shot a season-low 30 per­cent (9 of 30) in the first half. But they found the range after intermission, shooting 63.6 percent (14 of 22) from the field. 
''I'm surprised more people don't realize that they're one of the best defensive tHams in the country, in addition to being <JilP of the best offensive teams," Seton IIall coach P.J. Carlesimo said. 
"They are one of the best two or three teams in the country. Somebody might be as good, but nobody is better." 
The Tar H11els rattled Seton Hall with their trap defense against Dehere and Pirates' point guards Danny Hurley and Bryan Caver, who combined for 14 turnovers and 14 points. 



No one prepa,...,. you for the MCAT bett&<" than Kaplan_ Our MCAT prep course teaches you exactly what the t&St coven~ and the I9SI­taking skills you'll n&ed to acol"8 your best. Wu offBI' live clas.aes, ho<ne atudy not..,., and audio 1"8view. Pius, no one ulse has a more extunsive MCAT 1"8source library than Kaplan_ 
KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat qu9Sii0('1. 
--------------------------------------,~----------------------------­
Monday, January 25, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Piper, Brunner keep fencers unbeaten 
BY KEVIN JANICKI counted. I can't say enough about them." Sports Writer The Irish foil squad provided most of the punch 
against the Illini, winning 8-1. Along with Piper 
The Notre Dame men's fencing squad continued and Brunner, who went undefeated in the match, its early season success by defeating Purdue, Rian Girard added two victories and was one Lawrence, Illinois, and Chicago at the University touch short of going undefeated himself. of Illinois on Saturday, 
"Jeff, Stan, and Rian really carried the ball for improving the its record to us against Illinois" said DeCicco. 
10-0 on the season. The victory over a strong But the success of the meet as a whole was also and inspired Illinois team due to the strong efforts of the epeeists who beat came only after a brilliant Purdue 9-0 and Chicago 8-1. And though the comeback. Foilists Jeff sabremen struggled against the midwestern Piper and Stan Brunner powerhouse of Illinois, they beat all three of the and epeeists Per Johnsson 
other teams 8-1, finishing 26-10 on the weekend. 
and Grzegorz Wozniak won The Irish men and women head east next the last four bouts to take weekend to face 1992 NCAA champions the match 14-13. ·~Jeff Piper Columbia, perennial powers NYU, Princeton, 
"It was a classic Notre Navy, ST. John's, and Rutgers. The continued Dame comeback" said head coach Mike DeCicco. success in all weapons will be crucial against the "All four men really came through when it nation's top clubs. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
penalty-free overtime. The final shot count was even at thirty. 
"It was kind of a Jekyll and Hyde performance," said Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer, commenting on the inconsistent play of his team. 
"You saw two evenly matched teams," Schafer said, noting that only one goal separates the two teams through one hundred and ninety minutes of hockey played. "We thought this was going to be our night. We just don't score many goals." 
"I think we should have won," said Osiecki, "and I think we played well enough to win." 
The Irish were not so fortu­nate the following evening as they were squashed by Michi­gan 7-1 in front of the 3,106 people in attendance. The Wolverines, who are ranked second in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association and third in the nation, demonstrated their outstanding fire-power, defen­sive skills, and goaltending. 

Although Michigan did jump to a 3-0 lead in the first period, the Irish played fairly well and it seemed that the Irish might avoid a Wolverine blow-out. But the Irish were simply over­whelmed by the Michigan at­tack in the second period, as the Wolverines scored four more goals. 
Freshman Garry Gruber scored the lone Irish goal with 
12:19 remaining in the second period, when he deflected the puck past the extended left pad of Michigan goalie Steve Shields. Seniors Sterling Black and Dave Bankoske assisted on the goal. 
Notre Dame goalie Greg Louder, who allowed six goals while still saving eighty percent of the shots he faced, was re­placed by Brent Lothrop with eight minutes and forty two seconds remaining in the pe­riod. Schafer said that he "certainly didn't pull him for poor play." Lothrop saved six-teen of the seventeen shots he faced. 

The Irish refused to give up in third period where, although they were unable to score, they 
Strong showing for men's track at Purdue Relays 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team began the indoor season this past Friday competing in the Purdue Relays. This pre­liminary meet was unscored and served as a warm up for the long season ahead. 
None the less the Irish had some exemplary perfor­mances. 
"We had a lot of good things happen," said head track coach Joe Piane. 
Junior captain, Todd 
managed to keep the Wolver­ines off the board. The shot count for the third period fa­vored Michigan 12-11, while the first two were 15-7 and 20­6, respectively. 
"We didn't play very well on Saturday, and I don't need to say much more than that," Osiecki said. "They just beat us in every facet of the game." 
"We were out-classed by a very good hockey team," said Schafer. "They were just too good. Not only are they skilled and fast, but they are fit. They more often than not out-mus­cled us to the puck." 
Herman high jumped 7'0.25" feet to win the high jump competition. Tom Mescall high jumped 6'8.75" feet and long jumped 22'5.75". Irish harrier Derek Martisus ran the 3000 meters in 8:54.6. 
Another top performance came from Chris Lilly who ran the 55 meter hurdles in 7.87 second. 
The top miler from Notre Dame was Andrew Burns who ran the distance in 4:23.9. Finally Notre Dame's distance Medley Relay team placed third with a time of 10:29.1. 
The Irish can take pride in at least one thing, the play of their penalty killing teams. They managed to kill three Michigan two-man advantages as well as nine of ten penalties. They also held UIC scoreless in its five at­tempts, which leaves their re­cent streak at 48 of the last 52 penalties killed, spanning over the last eight games. 
Notre Dame's power play continues to slump after going scoreless in nine attempts this weekend. The power play had been the team's strongest facet earlier in the season. 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 7-13, 1993 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of seven sites in the Appalachian region One-credit Theology Information meeting: Tues., Jan. 26, 7:30-8:00 

CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Information meeting: Thurs., Jan. 28, 4:00-4:30 


WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Poverty and Democracy in America 
Direct Contact with political, agency, ari.d Church leaders in Washington, D.C. One credit Theology Information meeting: Mon., Jan. 25, 7:00-7:30 PM 


Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due Soon 

page 16 The Observer Monday, January 25, 1993 
Defense silences brash Explorers 

Hoops 
continued from page 20 
the team's second leading scorer. who had to sit out over eight minutes of the first half after pieking up his third foul early in the game. 
"It hurt us that Paul Burke made two dumb fouls in the first half and had to sit out eight minutes," said LaSalle eoach Speedy Morris. "We net~d him in thern." 
LaSalle came to life early in the second. with Townes hitting two three-pointers accom­panyed by two more from guard .Jeff Neubauer giving the Explorers a 38-36 lead. Notre Dame rf!took the lead on a Cozen trey, heading a 19-5 run that gave the Irish a 55-43 lead. 
Townes. who finished with a team-high 23 points, and Burke tried to keep the Explorers close. but Hoover and Williams combined to hit 5-6 free throws in the games final two minutes to ice the win. 
Tough defensive play led by Hoover in the first half and Tay­lor on Townes throughout the game forced LaSalle into 17 turnovers. Explorer forwards Blitz Wooten and Don Shelton were held to a combined three points, a season-low. 
"You have to give Notre Dame a lot of credit. They took us out of our game," said Morris. "We couldn't get anything going on the inside, and they made it tough on our shooters." 
Hoover's floor leadership keyed much of the scoring, with the most glaring example coming during the second half run where he was credited with three of his team-high six 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 

Sports Editor 
LaSalle came into the Joyce ACC with an attitude. 
The Explorers tried to rattle Notre Dame with physical play and trash talk throughout the Irish's 72-63 win on Saturday night. 
"They think we're snobs just because we pla·y for Notre Dame, and it showed in the way they played," Monty Williams said. 
As the game progressed, however, LaSalle lost its com­posure because of Notre Dame's defensive pressure. This was most evident in the performances of LaSalle's lead­ing scorer Kareem Townes and Billy Taylor. 
Though Townes scored 23 points, he only made 7 of 28 shots. Taylor was in his face all night and forced Townes into taking a lot of bad shots. 
"We knew he looks to shoot," Taylor commented. "We wanted to play hard on him and be physical and aggressive." 
Taylor also had a game-high three steals and pulled down six rebounds. 
Another position where LaSalle showed its short fuse was at point guard, as Jeff 
assists. He also grabbed seven rebounds. 
"You want the ball and I got the other guys involved tonight," said Hoover. "That's what I like to do and should do." 
MacLeod stressed the signifi­cance of the win considering it came on the heels of back-to­hack losses to Michigan and Butler, and gave a good show­ing in front of the home crowd. 
"This is a very important win," commented MacLeod. "We lost at home to USC and Indiana and this was our first Saturday night game at home." 
Neubauer was whining to the officials about Ryan Hoover's aggressive defense. 
"We really got them frus­trated, and they couldn't set up their offense," Hoover noted. 
After a first-half turnover Neubauer shoved the ball into Hoover's face in disgust. Hoover showed the poise of an upperclassman, as he simply laughed at him. 
"We play line with the physi­cal style of play," the Irish point guard said. "We've got the horses that can dish it out." 
The Irish defense held an op­ponent under 40 percent shooting for the seventh time this season, as LaSalle con­nected on only 36.1 percent of its shots. 
"If we are going to be a con­tending team, we have to establish the defense first, and we have done that," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "For the most part our defense has been tough. I think our players re­spond well to the man-to-man." 



Nowyou can come with alifetime 
warranty. 
So many things come with a lifetime warranty. At TIAA, we want you to be one of them. That's why we created Group Life and Long-Term Disability Insurance for the educational community. These plans can provide 
fits like paycheck protection, \ continued contributions toward 
--....-­

retirement, Social Security assis-\ ,...._n..........
-

tance and expert claims service. \ -~­
To find out more about how \ you can give yourself the best life-\ time protection, call your benefits office and ask about us. At TIAA, we think TIM Group Insurance. everyone should be guaranteed for life. The Smart Relationship. 

730 Third Avenue Insurance and Teachers 
New York, NY 10017-3206 Annuity Association 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it. 
UNTIL THERE IS NO LONELINESS, NO DESTITUTION, NO SICKNESS, NO WAR ... Please support the American Red Cross  
Alumni Awareness Week SCAVENGER HUNT CLUE: This slip ofpaper is hidden with care in a sacred place ofprayer. Don't forget to pick up your extra clue in the Alumni Association office RM. 201 Ad. Min. GOOD LUCK The Alumni Fact For The Day... The November Alumni Association Continuing Education Telecast had a potential audience of 21 million, and 828 networks aired the program. The Notre Dame Alumni Association is the only one that uses a satellite network for educational purposes.  


Monday, January 25, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Women's tennis drops season opener to #4 Duke 
By JIM VOGL Dame sophomore Laura Schwab an Assistant Sports Editor early lesson. Exum, tied for second in the Indoor Tennis Association rankings, That which does not kill you will make calmly and methodically destroyed the 
you stronger. . flustered Schwab, 6-2, 6-1. 
Notre Dame's women's tennis coach "Laura needed to be more patient," .lay Louderback must have faith in this Louderback noted. "Exum's a great philosophical adage, scheduling three player who really moves around. She's top-1 0 teams to start out the season. fast and she forces you to be patient." 
His young Irish narrowly escaped the Schwab recently replaced junior 
Eck Pavilion alive Saturday against Melissa Harris as the team's top singles fourth-ranked Duke, dropping an 8-1 player when Harris withdrew from decision. But Louderback remained school for personal reasons. optimistic, saying, "I think playing big matches early will pay off in the long "I was pretty nervous in the first run.". match, and I had a hard time 
In the number-one singles match, concentrating," admitted Schwab, whose 
Duke senior Julie Exum gave Notre frustration mounted after several double-faults. "I knew if I served it the least bit shallow she'd hit a winner. I missed a lot of serves early and that set the pace for the rest of the match." 
The team match was much closer than the score would indicate, according to Blue Devil coach Geoff MacDonald. 
"All six matches were wars," MacDonald said. "Notre Dame fought hard when they were down. Once they get rolling, I think they can be a top-15 team." 
"I thought it could have easily been 
pitted Notre Dame's Lisa Tholen (22nd) experience," MacDonald said. "All six
tied 3-3 going into doubles play," 
against Susan Sommerville (eighth). matches were close, but we just had
Louderback said. 

Tholen, after being swept in the first set, what it took to put them away."
Freshman Wendy Crabtree handled 
rebounded with a 7-6 win in the second "Although today's score doesn't showChristine Neuman (12th), 6-3, 6-3, for 
set, only to drop the deciding set 6-3. it, I feel like we can handle the bigNotre Dame's only win. 
matches," Schwab said. "Our team is Freshman Holyn Lord battled Duke's coming together and showing great"Wendy's a good athlete," Louderback 
Wendy Lyons in a two and-a-half hour depth."
said. "The main thing that impressed me marathon, only to lose, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5. 
was that she really played under 
"A big factor today was experience, " Notre Dame will continue to playcontrol." 
said Louderback, who started three under the pressure-cooker in the early
Louderback also found reason for 
freshman-Crabtree, Lord and Sherri going. They face fifth-ranked UCLA on
optimism in Christy Faustmann's loss in 
Vitale. "When.it came down to the tight Friday and seventh-ranked Georgia in a 7~6. 7-5, nail-biter, along with three, matches, Duke played better." Minneapolis on Saturday. The Irishthree-set matches. 
schedule features nine teams in the top-Probably the best matchup of the day 



Strap it on, La ­
It's your 
22nd 
Birthday! 
Hope it's a good one! 
Newly Remodeled Notre Dame Apartments Now Renting for August 1993 
Models Open 
Mon.·Fri. 3·6p.m. Saturday 1·6p.m. 
Stop by and see the changes we have made! 
Great Rental Rates For More Information Call: 
MATTEO ENTERPRISES 
232-8256 
"I think it was a matter of poise and 25. 
Calling all Cheerleader wanna-Be's 
Informal Meeting February grh 7:30p.m. Football Auditorium 
and Lucky Leprechauns 
..

FACULlY DINING ROOM 
OPEN: MONDAY -FRIDAY 11:30 A.M. 1:00 P.M. 

MODERATE PRICES LARGE TABLES QUIET SURROUNDINGS 
LOCATED ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL 



page 18 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

ross ntry 8 equ pment may be rented from RecSports at the Rock Thursday and Friday from 4:30-5:30 p.m., Saturday from 12-1 p.m. and Sunday from 4:30*5:30 p.m.. For more information. call RecSports at 631-6100. 
Entries are being taken for campus indoor soccer for men and women. badminton doubles for men and women, and co*rec water volleyball and the interhall swim relays are due January 27. 
The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will be having boginners practices on Thursday from 6:30*8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 6::W*8:30 p.m. in 219 Rockne. No experience necessary. All arH wel<:ome. Advanced classes are Friday 6*8 p.m. and Saturday from 10*12a.m.. If you have questions, please call Laurie 634­4992. 
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice will be held Mondays and Thursdays at 7:30 in the JACC above Gate 4. Questions call Matt Zinno 634* 1777. 
Competitive vo·lleyball Is being played at the Rock on Mondays from 12·1 :15 p.m.. If you have questions. please call Mike at 631-5689. 
The Ultimate season is finaJiy getting started. Practices are going to be held from 10* 11 p.m. in Loftus on Wednesdays starting this Wednesday. January 27 will be n official tryout for the team. All are welcome. 
Late Night Olympics Dealine for team signups is 9 p.m. January 25. See your LNO Hall Rep for details. 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse team has practice on Sunday from 8*9 p.m. at Loftus. 
The first official rugby practice is January 26 from 9*11 p.m. at Loftus. Rookies should come at 8:30. Bring mouthpieces and 
S.A.C.S.. For further information, call Mike at 634-1586. 
ND/SMC Equestrian team will hold an intramural horse show at Kensington Riding Center on Sunday. For more information, ploase call Megan at 634-2784. If you are interested in showing at Indiana University call Katie as soon as possible 284*5520. 
lnterhall football equipment return will be accepted on January 27 from 4*6 p.m. at Gate 9 of the Stadium. 
Cheerleadlng and leprechaun tryouts information meeting will bP. held February 8 at 7:30 p.m. in the Football Auditorium. The clinks start February 15. 
ND/SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting on January 25 to diseuss officer elections. All interested in running for office should attend the meeting at 218 O'Shag at 7 p.m .. If you have questions, call Hudy Bryce at 634-4104. 
ND/SMC Ski Club will have a meeting on January 27 at 7:30 
p.m. in room 123 Nieuwland. All interested in spring break trip to Steamboat. CO must attend. Call Chris Boone at 273*2958 with any questions. 
Swim teams prepare for road trips 
Observer staff report really well," says Welsh. We are excited about the chance to The Notre Dame men's and race them. women's swimming teams head 
to Cleveland State on .January 29 and St. Bonaventure on the 30th to compete in their first back-to-hack roadtrip of the season. 
"We are very focused as a team," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "Our goal will be to race as well as we can." 
Welsh foels St. Bonaventure will be a big meet for the Irish. .. "St. Bon~!l_t.yre is swimming 
ILOIIral110 llairCuttlnaCo. 
DIAN RIDGE Pl.Aj~:iJ!I 
IEXTTO~ 
GRAPE RD.• LCISHAWAKA 
2n-~ 
o.ttyN ~.... ·~11-5 
The women lead the series with St. Bonaventure 7-0, while the menhold a 19-6 lead. Both teams beat Cleveland State convincingly last year. 
L_ 
J u N I 0 R 

The Observer Monday, January 25, 1993 
Spartans end Belles win streak, 67-63 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG 
Sports Writer 
Who said basketball wasn't a rough sport? Certainly not the Saint Mary's Belles, who's nine game winning streak ended Saturday after losing to the Manchester College Spartans, 67-63. 
"There's a saying we live by in basketball," said the Belle's coach Marv Wood, "play hard, play smart, and play like a champion. Today we played hard but we didn't play too smart." 
The teams exchanged leads throughout the game. The Spartans, who hold a 10-4 record so far this season, proved to be rough competition for the Belles. After a tough first half, the scored stood 25-24 with Manchester holding a slim lead. 
"We needed to come together as a team ," said senior guard Kristen Crowley. "It should have never been so close. We have to jump out, get the lead and keep it." 
Three minutes into the second quarter, the Belles grabbed a two point lead, but only managed to keep it for a few minutes. For the remainder of the half, the lead changed 
hands repeatedly. The teams remained tied go­ing into the games waning 

late Night Oly·mpicsV
moments, but a foul shot for Manchester ended the tie and proved to be the game winner. 
"It wasn't our best game, but 

Event list 
DETERMINED EvENTS 
1. Co-Ree Volleyball 2. 3 on 3 Basketball-men"s 3. 3 on 3 Basketball-women·s 
4. 
Nerf Football 

5. 
Water Polo 

6. 
Willie Ball 

7. 
Indoor Soccer-men's 

8. 
Indoor Soccer -women·s 

9. 
Water Volleyball 

10. 
Ultimate RecSports Challenge 

11. 
Table Top Pentathlon 

12. 
Broomball 

13. 
Kickball 


SPECIAL EvENTS 
1. 
Slam Dunk Contest 

2. 
Dodgeball 

3. 
Dunk Tank 


roundtnp purchase. T&<es not induded and restrictions apply. Call for other 'M:lrldwide destinations, both one W""" and ra..ndtrip. 
·r~es 1n eacn Wl!tf from Chicago based on a 
IMPORTANT DATES
Council TriMd 

January 25, 1993 Deadline for team rosters for each late nile event. 
1153 N. Deabom St 2nd floor Chi~. 1160610 

January 27, 1993 Late Nile miss-a-meal for special olympics. January 28, 1993 Late Nile training tables. 
311·951-0585 
Call For A Free Student 

January 29, 1993 Late Nite Olympics! Travels Magazine! 
p 

A R E N T s ' w E E K E N D 

we ran into a good opponent," we have to focus on for next said Wood. . time," said Crowley. 
Top scorers for the Belles on Added Senior Anne Mulcahy, Saturday were forward Kim "We need to overcome this loss, Holmes with 18 points and for­forget it, and concentrate on the ward Jennie Taubenheim, also rest of the year." with 18 points. The Belles will play Albion 
After a successful season up College Wednesday night at to this point, Saturday's loss hit 7:00 at Angela Athletic center. the Belles hard. "We'll have to come on strong 
"This loss woke us up to what and play our best." said Wood. 

Room 106 in the Center for Continuing Education 
There are three families per table. One student must present all three J.D.'s at the time of registration. 
Questions? call the JPW Office at 1-6028 between 6-8 p.m., Sunday through Thursday 
Hey Juniors! 
JPW Seating for Dinner and Brunch will take place from 4-9 p.m. Monday, Jan. 25 Tuesday, Jan. 26 VVednesda~Jan. 27 


-------~-----­
Today 
Monday, January 25, 1993 page 19 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
SPELUNKER 
oN£ CAN ONlY iMA61Nf;­T SIT, IN TltE W~DE:P.S MON~f IY\1\SoCHI'::i\IC ENDtA'VOR WOUW HA\IE CREAT£1) IF 6EI IDEAS FoR 11l15 
HCD ONL'I SEEN A 51RIP.S. SIN(nl.E E:PI'SODE or 'STUDS." 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I Tf>...KE ~0\JN.S f\~C> MA'\B't:. WE CJ>.N E·J£.\'{1\lf>.-m 1'-r\~KE 1\\)Jt.c.T\\ftS AI-\D \JSt. 11-\H" LANG\JI>.Gt. 1>. CDMPL8'E \MPE.I)IMt.l'~T A'3 \ft.RS'S. Rt:MEI'<\BER It> IJNOER'Sif>.N_\)\NG. WI-lEN "Acc..W:>" Wfo..':> t\ T\\\1'-\G? Now \IS S0\111:.\1-\\NG '{O\J Do. 
II GOT \ft.R\3@. 
I 



BE.CA~St. ~0\il:> G 
A GOOI) GRADE 
W\niOV\ 00\N.G 
AN'i 'tiORK. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Okla. tribesmen 61 Dakota 33 Sing joyously 
tribesman 1 Algonquian 
63 Actress34 Quantity of tribesmen Bancroft
heat Abbr.
6 Spanish house 37 Seaman 64 Yearn
10 Puritanical person 38 Taipei natives 65 Stood 14 Cosmetic 40 Livy's lang. 66 Headland solution 41 Monorails' kin 67 Org. 15 Arab sultanate 42 Protection 68 Some officers 16 Consort of Zeus on a ship 
43 Slugger Ruth 17 Of yore 
44 Breakfast food 
18 Fla. tribesmen 45 Manual DOWN20Tiny calculator 
21 Headliner 1 Plains 
47 Ruler
23 Lacking sense tribesman
51 Skein
24 Plant used in 2Vex
52 Variety show 
lotions 
3 Strives 26 Refrigerators' 
53 Type style: 4 Opposite of Abbr.
predecessors WNW 29 Rider Paul 55 Friar's title 5 Photoelectric 
31 Check 58 Homer type 
cell 6--Nostra 7 Moki, Nozi and 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Zuni a Hill or Browne 9 Black bird ~-'+-'--+=F-i 10 Sound: Comb. form 30 Catchall abbr. 47--donor 54 Govt. agents 
-:-:-1-7+:~+:--~~~~---
1211 Actress Dunne Loosen 56 Stratagem
33 Blessed-event 48 Author of "The 57 Timberland
.,:::+:-+::~ ...,..,;,r::::...t=-BR=+::-i 13 Freon and item Mysterious 
toolsIsland"

xenon 34 Mont. tribesman 
59 Sort of resort 

49Charles­
19 Eat sparingly 35 Forbidden 60 Fleur-de-­~~+::-.-.111!117-:+=-17+::-1 22 Pipe joint Hughes 62 A tax shelter, for 
36 Colo. tribesmen 

25 lacocca or 50 Magic signs short
38Wired

Majors 
391dol

27 Remedies 43 Bar
...,.._..,:-+.'-+=-i 28 A son of 
Get answers to any three clues 
Aphrodite 45 Eureka! 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 
'-'-+--'~+-:-! 29 Mechanical 46Aromatic 
repetition ointment 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 1214 
Thursday: 


9:oopm ­

----------·--------------------~-­
Sports 
page 20 Monday, January 25, 1993 
JENNY 
Wolverines too much for Irish 
MARTEN By BRYAN CONNOLLY adjusted to the Irish attack. They were Sports Writer unable to sustain any major offensive threats as Illinois-Chicago pounded Irish 
On Top of Sports The Notre Dame hockey team wrapped goalie Greg Louder with a dozen shots. up its six game home swing this weekend The Flames reached the scoring charts by picking up one point from its two with one minute and fifty two seconds 
51 article crosses line of objective journalism 
!low did you find out about the 
accident? I bet you remember. Was your roommate on the bus? A 
girlfriend? A relative'? A friend? The 
swimmer who sits next to in class? 
I was in bed. The Observer called me. I had been waiting for the team to return so I could write a story about the meet. At midnight, I gave up because it was too late to get it in the paper. It was only a women's swim meet against Northwestern after all. No 

The Observer/Kyle Kusak 

Eric Gregoire takes a shot against Michigan. 
reason to hold up the paper for that. 
The next morning it was front page news. 
Last week, the story was featured in an eight-page article in Sports Illustrated. I have a great deal of 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
respect for the magazine and the 
Sports Writer people who write for it, but I was disappointed by thn article. 
The Notre Damn men's basketball team It was written by the godfather of one 
survived a three-point barrage by of the swimmers, Kristin !Ieath. I don't 
LaSalle Saturday night at the Joyce i\CC mean to take anything away from Mr. 
raising its reeord above .500 with a 72­Montville's writing skills. It was a well 
63 win. written article, but it crossed the line in 
The Explorers hit 14 of :n treys. but terms of the writer's personal 
the Irish countered with a season-high involwnwnt. 
.491 shooting from tlw floor, and hit key Tlw artidt> should have been written 
free throws at the game's end. Notre with IPss subjectivity. ThP interjt~etion 
Dame also got one of its most balanced of his thoughts into the article r.rossed 
• Defense talks for Irish /see page 16
thn lirw of journalistic objectivity. Mr. Montville is entitled to his own thoughts and feelings about the 
scoring performances of the sPason, with aeeident. but we all have tlwm. It 
Monty Williams lt~ading all scorers with d1wsn't maw~r if you knew someone on 
17, Hyan lloover scoring 16, Carl CoZPn the bus. if you used to swim, or if you 
and Joe Hoss eaeh tallying nine, and Billy have riddPn a bus before. everyone 
Taylor contributing eight. was am~etPd by the accident. Why are 
"(The balanced seoring) is a good Mr. Montville's ft~Piings more important 
indication that we are getting some than evPryone else's'? 
distribution," said Notre Dame coach I coverPd the swim meet against 
John MacLeod. "We shot better and got University of Illinois-Chicago, the first 
better shots." rnent after the accident. and it was one 
Both teams found offensive success of tlw most inspiring things I have ever 
early, with the lead ehanging hands seen. I will rwver forget the strength of 
throughout the game's first fiw~ minutes. the swim team on that day. The 
But that changed as a three-pointer by swimmers had !wen through more in a 
Hoover with 12:33 started a 12-2 run week then most people experience in a 
that handed the Irish a 20-10 lead with lifetinw, hut tlwre was strength in just over nine minutes remaining in the Holl"s. half. 
The strPngth has eontinued. Sure it But LaSalle began tturned up the breaks on oeeasion. but no one can be defense, holding Notre Dame to only strong all the time. eight points in the remainder of the half 
One year latPr, we should not dwell, while scoring 16, cutting the Irish lead to 
as the ,\'ports Illustrated article does, 28-26 at the intermission. During the on tlw facts of the accident. It is stretch, LaSalle guard Kareem Townes important to tell the story, but what hit nine of his team's 16 points. should be emphasized is the recovery. I The slim Notre Dame lead was helped 
agree with head coach Tim Welsh who by the loss of Explorer guard Paul Burke, says that the story is wonderful 
The Observer I Marguerite Schropp 
see HOOPS/page 16

because it is a healing story. 
Monty Williams dunks two of his team-high 17 points Saturday night at the Joyce ACC. 
I thought about writing to Sports Illustrated and proposing to write an artiele about the swim team, but I 
Women's hoops faces yet another ranked opponent
wanted to wait until the end of the 
season to write the article. The 
By JASON KELLY the nation's best teams, but that has all the middle. Kristin Knapp, at 6-3 is the 
uniqueness of the story is not the bus Sports Writer changed now. only Irish regular who can counter crash. People die in auto accidents 
Against Penn State, the Irish jumped to DePaul's size. every day. Another day, another ranked opponent. a 9-0 lead and showed flashes of "We have to control the boards and The beauty of the story is that a year The Notre Dame women's basketball brilliance for 20 minutes before bowing hold down their offensive rebounds,"
later the team is rmnembering Colleen team takes their road show to Chicago 
to the Nittany Washington explained. "The most impor­and Meghan, the team is recovering, tonight to face No. 21 DePaul. It is the Lions. 
tant thing is containing their big people." tlw team is swimming, and the team is team's second straight game against a "In the first half Equally important is playing with the winning swim meets. Top 25 opponent and their fifth of the against Penn State confidence that helped the Irish scare 
season. They dropped an 87-66 decision we proved to Penn State in the first half. 'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ to No. 5 Penn State I ast Tuesday. ourselves that we "We've improved so much since we It is also Notre Dame's sixth road game could play with those tough losses at the beginning of the 
INSIDE SPORTS 
in the month of January, and they have anyone in the season," Washington commented. trips scheduled to Evansville and Butler country," "Things are really starting to dick for
•sMC hoop falls to Manchester 
before returning horne on February 4. Washington said. us."
see page 18 
"It is helping us build character," "If Penn State is MCGRAW MOVING UP: Irish coach senior Coquese Washington said of the Muffet McGraw is quickly approachingNo. 5, then we C h p d" 
tough schedule. "We are getting more aren't far behind." at Y ez lrtz her 200th career win. She currently see page 17 
•Duke too much for Irish 
confidence, so we don't mind playing That's the kind stands at 197-98 in 10 years as a head teams at their place." of confidence the team will need to coach. At Notre Dame, her record is 109­That confidence hasn't always been knock off No. 21 DePaul. The Blue 57. McGraw needs just seven more wins
•Mirer struggles In Shrine 
there this season. Early losses to Demons will tower over the Irish inside to pass Mary DiStanislao as Notre Dame 
see page 13 
Marquette and Purdue had the team with 6-5 ·cathy Pezdirtz, 6-4 Keri all-time winningest women's basketball questioning their ability to compete with Lorenzen and 6-3 Cathy Stone roaming coach. 











