
Friday, September 3, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No.5 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
New complex sets Business on course for future 

By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
The trading schooner atop of Hurley Hall, long a symbol the College of Business Adminis­tration, will finally make her maiden voyage as the College finds a new home in a $146 million complex being built in time for the start of classes in 1995. 
The schooner, which will fi­nally dock in a courtyard out­side the complex, is a throw­back to the old in a building designed to accomodate the new. 
Located immediately south of DeBartolo Hall on the evolving DeBartolo Quad, the yet-to-be named building is unique in that it is being built for the ad­vanced technologies that will become commonplace in the future, according to John Keane, dean of the College of Business Administration. 
"One just has to look at what's going on and realize it's happening so fast you can't know far into the future what will go on," Keane said, "That doesn't mean not to do the best job of preparing for the unknown, and that's what we've attempted to do here, technologically speaking." 
Schedule ofEvents 
Friday 
4:30 p.m. Marching Band Rehearsal,main building steps 
6:45 p.m. Band Step-off for Pep Rally, Band Building 7:00p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. 
Saturday 
8:30 a.m. ND Alumni Baseball Game, New ECK BSB Stadium 
9:00 a.m. Notre Dame, St. Mary's, & Holy Cross College Alumni family and friends invited to the Alumni Hospitaliry Center, J.A.C.C. 9:00a.m. Pregame & Post game Tailgate Parry and Grill, Morris Inn Patio 
10:30 a.m. Glee Club concert at JACC North Dome 
11:00 
a.m. Porn Pon Squad and Cheerleading performance in front ofbook­store 

11:00 
a.m.Shenanigan's performance, JACC North Dome 

11:00 
a.m.Band step-off, Main Building steps 


11:30 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Crypt 
11:45 a.m. Band Concert step-off from main building 
12:35 p.m. Kickoff, Football vs. Northwestern Rockne Memorial Stadium After game ND/SMC/HCC all-class reunion and alumni hospitality center at JACC.North Dome, Gates 2 & 3 
5:00 p.m. Vigil Mass, Sacred Heart Basilica 7:30p.m. Big Band Dance ($4 per person, $6 per couple), Stepan Center 
Sunday 
6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30 & 11:30 a.m. Mass, Crypt-Parish Church 8:00, 10:00, 11:45 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart BAsilica 
10:00 a.m. Mass, St. Joseph's Chapel, Holy Cross College 
In addition to 18 classrooms, 13 small-group study rooms and a 350-seat auditorium, the structure is highlighted by an innovative audio-visual class­room, which is "on the cutting edge" according to Robert Williamson, associate dean of the college. 
The classroom will serve the dual purposes of allowing stu­dents to "attend" classes at other universities through satellite links, in addition to serving as a room where pro­fessors can improve their class­room delivery. 
Even something as mundane as wiring conduits are designed for the future, according to Williamson. 
Instead of installing one con­duit pipe, designers will build two, but leave one empty. The second pipe will be used when it is probable that new com­puter or television links will be required. In most buildings the old conduit will have to be re­placed at great cost, but in the new business complex it will be done easily and at cheaply. 
"It's obvious that we can't predict the technology that has not yet been developed, but we're taking every precaution that this building will be able to handle advanced technology,;' according to Sam Gaglio, assis­tant dean of the College. "If there is anything new out there we hope that we have the abil­ity to adapt our building to ac­commodate it." 
One of the more advanced features that the new building will boast is a revolutionary new library that would operate through the use of databases, completely free of hardcover books. Students working in the library would be able to access their information through com­puter terminals and print out pages into a hard copy, ac-
see BUSINESS I page 4 

Construction alters parking plans 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
Notre Dame football fans driving to the game this Saturday may find themselves taking a different route than the usual. 
Edison Road between State Road 23 and Ironwood Road will be blocked off due to con­struction with traffic detoured north on Ironwood to Douglas Road where parking is avail­able in White Field, according to Phil Johnson, assistant di­rector of University Security. 
"We believe it will be a quick and easy way in and out for cars," Johnson said. "And there will even be a shuttle bus run by Transpo at White Field that will take people to and from the stadium." 
An alternate route heads south on Hickory Road to McKinley, west on McKinley to Twyckenham Drive, then north into parking, he said. 
Johnson added that the con­struction of the DeBartolo Quad and the Eck baseball stadium are general parking areas. 

One way traffic patterns will be set up three hours before the game on Eddy Road head­ing toward the stadium along South Bend Avenue, on Angela Road starting at Interstate 33 and on Juniper Road at the Cleveland Road intersection, Johnson said. The same pat­terns will lead outbound for an hour after the game. 
The police will have check­points at va!'ious intersections to facilitate the process, he added. 
"Over 120 police officers will be positioned to ensure a smooth, safe flow of traffic be­fore and after the game," Johnson said. 
He added, "Students are rec­ommended to park at the game ' as early as possible since park­ing is first come first serve." 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this article. 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 3, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 

Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio? 

The neighborhood just seemed quieter this sum­mer. At first, I could not put my finger on why it was more tranquil. 
After awhile though, it hit. The neighborhood was not sporting pick-up
baseball games in the streets, vacant lots and 
backyard. Missing was what made summer summer. 
Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio? 
Those glorious days of summer, when the only worries were whether we would play in this yard or that one; who was bringing the bat and ball; and probably the greatest worry-who was going to play the likes of Johnny Bench, Babe Ruth, Mickey Mantle, Dave Collins, Davey Lopes, Mike Schmidt, Fred Lynn, and John Stearns. 
And we would play all day long, all summer long. My backyard was the field of choice-as evidenced by the wear and tear on the grass that made the yard into a worn infield. 
Usually we would play with a rubbery plastic ball, but as soon as the babysitter would come over, we would bring out the leathery hard ball and play some real baseball. 
Occasionally, we would ride our bikes over to St. John's School and play home run derby-i the ball did not hit the school building across the street, then it was time to sit the bench or play the field. 
Then late July brought the Hall of Fame foot­ball game, only to briefly whet our appetites for the pigskin. So, when we had our fill of base­ball, we would play football-pretending to be the likes of Roger Staubach and Terry Bradshaw. The football did not last long, though. Back to baseball we went. 
But all of this seemed to be missing in the neighborhood. 
Where have you gone Joe DiMaggio? 
Why was it missing? Maybe it was because baseball has changed its emphasis. 
Is it because baseball has turned from a sport where kids dreamed of hitting .400, belting 50 home runs and 125 RBis into an adult business focused on the almighty dollar? 
Is it because baseball now has stars like the firecracker-tossing Vince Coleman and Clorox­pitching Bret Saberhagen? 
Is it because kids find it hard to relate to mil­lion-dollar players who refuse to sign an auto­graph? 
Is it because Nintendo has replaced our national past time? 
Is it because the great invention of the VCR has made coach potato-ing the new national pastime? 
Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio? 
Or, is it because that the Joe DiMaggio could­be's are sitting around in dorm rooms not too different from our own, drinking beer, playing Nintendo while simultaneously watching the VCR and listening to Billy Joel? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production John Lucas Beth Swiney Theresa Aleman Allison Ebel 
Spons Accent Brian Kubicki Elisaberh Heard RyanAkey Bevin Kovalik 
Viewpoint Graphics Rolando de Aguiar Brendan Regan Lab Tech Scott Mendenhall 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 1hrough Friday excep1 during c:nm and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 1he Auocia1cd Press. All reproduaion rights are reserved. 
Sean Farnan Sports Photo Editor 
Cholesterol Levels Tracked 
ATlANTA 
More and more Americans are taking the 
time to learn how much cholesterol they 
have in their blood.A national health objec­
tive for the year 2000 is to have 75 percent 
of Americans screened for high blood cho­
lesterol every five years. That's important 
because almost a third of Americans have 
cholesterol levels that need lowering, but 
many don't know it. 
It looks like the nation will meet its goal, 
the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention reported Thursday. 
In 1991, 63.9 percent of Americans over 
age 20 who live in 37 states studied got 
cholesterol screening, an increase from 
51.2 percent in 1988, the CDC reported. 
New Jersey had the highest percentage of its residents screened, 69.5 percent, and New Mexico had the lowest, 57 percent. But New Mexico had the biggest increase in screening -a jump of 21.4 percentage points from 1988. 
The CDC used these numbers to proje~t that 32 states will attain the year 2000 objective by next year. 
Britain Warns Fertility Patients 
LONDON 
Officials are trying to trace about 300 
women who could be at risk of developing a 
fatal brain disease because they were treat­
ed for infertility using hormones from 
L---------------------------------------------------~ 
corpses infected with the virus that causes the disease.British authorities ordered the check after four women in Australia who had received the infertility treatment died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, which cre­ates holes in the brains of its victims. There is no known cure.Dr. Kenneth Caiman, Britain's chief medical officer, announced Wednesday that about 300 women who received injections of human pituitary gonadotrophins extracted from cadavers -a practice discontinued in Britain in 1985 -were at risk of developing Creutzfeldt­Jakob disease.More than 1,300 women contacted a tele­phone help line within 24 hours. "No cases are known to have occurred in women treated in the U.K., but reports from Australia indicate that Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease has occurred in four women who were treated there with human pituitary gonadotrophins for infertility," Caiman said.Gonadotrophins are hormones formed in the pituitary gland. These hormones are used to induce ovulation in women whose ovaries do not produce eggs naturally.Studies in Britain during the 1970s showed that tissue taken from the brains of people who had died of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease could transmit it to others, the London newpaper The Independent reported.ln Atlanta, a spokesman at the Emory University med­icaldepartment said if the hormones were donated by people who had been infected by the virus that causes Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the patients who received them would develop the disease many years later.The spokesman said it was common worldwide to treat women for infertiliy using hormones from corpses. But he had no statistics on numbers treated or countries involved.Human pituitary gonadotrophin extracted from the pituitary glands of cadavers was used to treat infer­tility in Britain from 1956 to 1985.About 20 to 30 babies were born as a result of this treatment, according to the Department of Health. There is no evidence the disease can be transmitted from a woman to her fetus, it 
C1993Aa:u·Woalhef.lnc. 

NATIONAL Weather 
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 3.
Friday, Sept. 3 
Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
• FRONTS: 
..............-...a....a.... ...........
'' 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993Accu-Weather.lnc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Showers 
The changing face of Israel 
1947: 

Present:
United Nations Partition Plan 
P!*>ently Israel retains the Golan Heights, 
West Bank and the Gaza Strip. It has 
established a security zone in southern 
Lebanon to protect its northern frontier from 
terrorist attacks launched by Iranian-backed 
guerrillas in the region. 
see related stories on page 6 

said. The hormones now in use for inducing ovulation are extracted from urine and have not been associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the department said.The dis­ease -similar to "mad cow disease" that strikes down cattle -is the principal spongiform encephalopathy found in humans. 
Indiana Jobless Rate Drops 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Indiana's unemployment rate continues to be lower than its neighbors and lower than the national average, according the state's estimated unemployment rate for July.The state's July rate dropped to 4.1 percent and the number of Hoosiers with jobs rose by 98,900, state offi­cials said.The state's estimated unemployment rate for the month dropped by 1.6 percentage points from June and remained well below the national rate of 6. 9 per­cent, officials said in a report issued today.lndiana's sea­sonally adjusted rate for July was 4.5 percent, compared with the national rate of 6.8 percent. Department of Workforce Development, said he thinks the state's labor force of 3,033,500 in July was overestimated. A total of 2,910,200 Hoosiers were employed, the department said. 
"Typically over the past ten years, to give you an his­torical perspective, our unemployment rate has increased about two-tenths of a percent from June to July," Christopher said.The estimated number of unem­ployed, 123,300, is lower than the July 1992 figure of 182,300.Indiana's jobless rate continues to be lower than the rates in neighboring states, Christopher said. Michigan's unemployment rate was 7.8 percent in July. Other July rates were 6.9 percent in Illinois, 6.6 percent in Ohio and 6.3 percent in Kentucky.Henry County had the highest unemployment rate in the state, at 10.5 per­cent, followed by Fayette County at 8.8 percent. 
lndianilpOiis 86 69 New York 74 70 Jerusalem 82 61 Paris 70 50 
H L 
Atlanta 93 74 London 68 59 Philadelphia 90 75Boston 72 62 
Los Angeles 86 69 Roma 86 63Chicago 73 61 
Madrid 90 63 Seattle 64 56Columbus 91 69 Minneapolis 77 63 South Bend 75 55
DaJlaa 99 78 
Mosc:ow 57 41 


Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page3 

ND fellow receives grant for Soviet ethnic research 

SMC begins preparations for Sesquicentennial events 
By NICOLE McGRATH ing liturgy will be held in Catholic Women College read to kids and then they will Mary's in November with Saim Mary's News Editor Angela for the entire Saint Experience." The difference engage in activities relating to Jeffrey Jacobs, a Saint Mary's Mary's community. Classes will between this conference and the story. The event will spot­music professor. Jacob is com­
Saint Mary's College is gear­be cancelled that afternoon. All other confrences in the past is light a celebrity corner featur­posing an original piece of work ing up for the celebration its seniors, faculty and adminis­that representatives from all ing local anchors and politi­in honor of the sesquicen­150th anniversary in a variety tration will enter in an aca­Catholic women's colleges will cians. tennial. of ways, according to Executive demic fashion wearing their be invited. •March '94-November '94­Coordinator of Sesquicentennial robes. The year long lecture series •A special commencement Issues, Maureen Manier. •January 1994-Saint Mary's •February 27, 1994-A cam­featuring prominent graduates honoring women in fields such 
dining hall will serve a tradi­pus wide service project called of women's colleges opens with as education, the arts, sciences, 
After two years of planning at tional dinner, based on how the Storybook festival will be a Saint Mary's alumna. literature and theology. Manier the committee and sub-com­dinners were served 50 years held throughout Madaleva Hall. •October 8, 1994-alluded to having a speaker of mittee level, it's exciting to now ago when meals were served in The event will be held in con­Sesquicentennial Ball will be national prominence as Saint see those plans unfold, said Stapleton Lounge in LeMans junction with the Early held at the Century Center for Mary's guest speaker but the Manier. Hall. · Childhood Development Center Saint Mary's alumnae and oth­name is not being released. 
Several of the many events •February 5-7, 1994_:_Saint (ECDC) and student organiza­ers. "Commencement is going to scheduled include: Mary's will host the Play of the tions. In each room at Madaleva •Fall 1994-Indianapolis be a jubilant occasion more so 
•January 20, 1994-An open-Mind Conference titled "The Hall, a different story will be Symphony will perform at Saint than usual," said Manier. 
Noyvyou can go to the libraryWithout leavmgyour room. 
lnteractiw programs on CD-ROM Bring yourpapers. projects andpresentations to 
col'er et•ery subjectfrom politics to Pkvsiology. 
~life by incorporatingphotos, clip art and a buge variety
And they incorporate sound. animation, music --------------­
~-~~ ofl]pefonts-all available on CD-ROM. 
and t1deo clips. So ordinary topics become -------------­more exciting. involt1ng and relevant. 
Plug in apair ofself-powered speakers and the CD-ROM drive plays audio CDs too -so you can work away,
Because asingle CD-ROM disc stores more while listening to yourfavorite music.
information than 500 floppy disks, you'll be able to ------­instant(y access encyclopedias, dictionaries and ------­
/
extensive databases-all with the click of a mouse. 
We'll even help you start your own CD-ROM library. Buy the Macintosh Centris 610 noul andyou'll
CD-ROM technology brings vast nw also receive the CD-ROM giftpack:capabilities to t~e desktop. Which is why. soon, two discs that include an electronic 
more and more computers will include a CD-ROM encyclopedia, a dictionary, interactive drive. Buy one, andyou're making an 
rock tJideos, musicfor your audio 
im•estment that will iast you well into thefuture. 
CD player and more (worth $32?t). Macinlosh Promo CD gift pack FREE.
Apple MacinJosb Centris '" 610 8/2?/) wilh CD-!KJ!tf, Macinlosh Color Display and Apple Exlended Keyboard II. 
CD-ROM technology puts libraries of information at your finger­our CD gift pack. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. While you're tips, and enables you to work with sound, video and animation. Buy there, ask about financing with the Apple® Computer Loan~ And "­the Macintosh Centris"' 610 with CD-ROM drive, and you'll also receive discover the power of Macintosh~ The power to be your bese tl® 
Special to The Observer 
Janie Leatherman, faculty fellow in the University of Notre Dame's Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will receive a $20,000 grant from the United States Institute of Peace in support of her re­search on ethnic. conflicts in Europe and the former Soviet Union. 
Leatherman's project enti­tled "The Conferences on Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Ethnic Challenge of Conflict: Assessing the Effectiveness of the CSCE Conflict Resolution Mechanisms" examines the escalation of violence and the dynamics of ethnic conflict in areas including the former Yugoslavia, Georgia, Nagorno­Karabakh, and the Baltic States. 
According to Leatherman, the end of the Cold War left tra­ditional "East-West institu­tions...largely unequipped to deal with the new forms of con­flict." 
The CSCE's "on-site inspec­tion, monitoring, fact finding and third-party intervention in conflict zones or potential con­flict zones" are "innovative in­stitutional approaches" which have received insufficient pub­lic and academic attention, she said. Her study intends to indicate "how alternative forms of diplomacy and mediation may shape regional peace and security, and contribute to in­ternational governance," Leatherman said 
A 1982 graduate of Manchester College, Leatherman received a doctoral degree in international studies. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 


--------~---------------------~ ---~-~ 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, S~ptember 3, 1993 

Nader accuses Foley, lawmakers ofabusing perks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Consumer advocate Ralph Nader contended Thursday that nine House members-in­cluding the speaker, the Repub­lican leader and the chairman of the Ways and Means Com­mittee-abused congressional perks in 1991 and 1992. 
Nader said the nine ranged "beyond reasonable and pru­dent bounds" in the use of their official expense accounts and campaign funds. He did not accuse them of doing anything illegal, and most of the lawmak­ers defended the spending as necessary to do their jobs. 
Excessive spending of cam­paign funds, Nader said, went for expensive meals, golf tour­naments and liquor over a two­year period. Some of the law­makers, he added, spent much of their official expense ac­counts for leased and rented cars, hotels, tips and first-class air travel in 1991 and 1992. 
Speaker Thomas Foley, D­Wash., was criticized for spend­ing $41,911 from his political action committee on meals for the House leadership and oth­ers. 
Hepublican Leader Bob Michel 
CORRECTION 
A story in yesterday's Observer incorrectly reported that the Faculty Senate will distribute the discount cards to faculty and staff. The card will be distributed by other means at a later date. 
Business 
continued from page 1 
cording to Gaglio. 
"The library will be ... similar in nature to a computer cluster in that you access the data, get a print-out and you go and do your work from that," he said. 
The technological future of the building was so important to the University that architects from the firm of Ellerbe Becket, along with Keane and other officials from Notre Dame toured new business buildings at Duke, SMU, Northwestern, and Washington University in St. Louis to pick the best aspects from each new com­plex. 
"The dean and other various 
r 
University officials came back with a summary of all the best 
l ~ 
' 
thin"gs different universities around the country have ... ob­
,l 
l 
viously we want to be on par with or exceed the capabilities of DeBartolo Hall," Gaglio said. 
While centering around office 
! 
space, and classrooms for grad­uate and MBA programs, the 
complex will provide 153·000 
feet of space. The three story 
building should more than dou­b1e the c0 m bine d sPace 0 f Hurley and Hayes-Healy, according to Keane. 
The College has been so cramped in its facilities in Hur­ley and Hayes Healy, that "fac­
ulty members have had offices 
Business building of the future 
Work on Notre Dame's $146 million business complex is expected to be completed in time for classes in the 1995 school year. -~-·n-ro_o_m_s-in-t~h-e-=-b_a_s_e_m_e_n_t-t~h-at--s-e-ve_r_a.,..l_w_a-:-ll:-s--:h:-a-s----=-be..:..e_n_p_o_ur-e--:d::-.-i:-s.:....tr_a_t-=-i_o_n_w-:i-:-:ll:--m-o-ve_o_u_t-o--:f=--_p_r_o_v_e_m..:._e_n_t_s_g_o-:i-n_g_on--:ic-n--:th:--e 
were designated for vending The project is on schedule for Hurley and Hayes-Healy, and business school and the sign 
machines," Williamson said. opening in the summer of 1995, both buildings will be open for that we're on the move ... this 
The foundation and base-Gaglio said. new University uses. will help all of our programs to 
ments of the complex have After the complex is finished, "This new building complex have a new facility." Keane 
been dug, and the concrete for the College of Business Admin-really symbolizes the many im-said. 
of Illinois was cited for spend­ing $58,070 in campaign funds on golf-related expenses. 
Hep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-111., chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, spent $104,661 from his campaign funds and his political action committee on meals and cater­ing. 
Nader also criticized Repre­sentives: 
•William 
Clay, D-Mo., chair­man of the Post Office and Civil Service Committee, for spend­ing $7,058 of campaign funds on liquor store beverages. 

•Hamilton 
Fish, R-N.Y., for the $18,508 in government money he spent on a·leased car. 

•William 
Zeliff, R-N.H., for ho­tel bills paid with $8,439 in fed­eral funds. 

•Mike 
Parker, D-Miss., for spending $14,088 in federal funds on rental cars. 

•Barbara 
Vucanovich, R-Nev., for tips paid with $1,261 in fed­eral funds. 

•Julian 
Dixon, D-Calif., for spending $80,000 on first-class air travel. 


Michel said Nader "ought to cool down and I would strongly recommend he take up golf for a little bit of relaxation." 
The Republican leader said he uses golf tournaments to raise contributions in his district and added, "Raising contributions through local golf outings is a popular, prudent, and uplifting campaign activity. Funds are spent locally and raised lo­cally ... " 

Dixon, in a written statement, justified his travel by saying, "During the 1991-92 period, I traveled to my congressional district on 36 occasions." 
The lawmaker added that he has "always stayed within my congressional office budget and most years returned unspent official expenses allowance to the United States Treasury." 
Scot Malvaney, Parker's spokesman, said his boss rents cars during each visit to his dis­trict, where he spends three or four days a week. 
Most members of Congress lease cars, Malvaney said. But Parker found that it was cheap­er to rent, to avoid lease charges imposed after a speci­fied mileage is reached. 
"He's exercising a choice be­cause he believes it's cheaper," Malvaney said. "He's getting the inconvenience of a rental and in exchange for that, he's getting branded as the car rental king." 
SSP Celebration Sunday -Sept. 5 9:00-Noonish 
Vucanovich issued a state­ment saying, "I represent areas with a very large service econo­my. They receive low wages because they are expected to make it up in tips. Are we going to penalize these poor people in the service industry here (in Nevada)? They are the last ones we should penalize." 
Her spokeswoman, Tina Kreisher, added that Vu­canovich needs her bags car­ried because a muscle under her arm was removed during a breast cancer operation. 
Nick Hayes, administrative assistant to Fish, said the law­maker leases a Lincoln Conti­nental to travel around "a pret­ty large geographic district" in New York State. 
"For a busy district we have a busy congressman," Hayes said. "He goes home every week. We have three district offices, all in different coun­ties." 
Hayes said Fish drives 40,000 miles a year in his district and needs a roomy car because he's six-feet, five inches tall. He added that it would cost more for Fish to rent a car or use his own car and get reimbursed by Congress. 

Wheretheverybest 
from land ana sea 
come togethet: 
Welcome to the Wharf where you'll find the freshest seafood, finest beef and most tender . chicken. The Wharf's fabulous Sunday Brunch and our famous salad buffet have a reputation 
that's second to none! And our view of the roaring St. Joe River is the most romantic in town! For reservations call234-4477. 

RF! 
300 East Colfax at the River 234-4477 BaTUiuet Space Available 
Center for Social Concerns For all SSP Students 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

SMC to raise activity fee to increase variety of events 
By MYRNA MALONEY numerous different groups 
News Writer within Student Government, the Student Activities Board 
After making proposals to the (SAB). the primary activity I SMC Board of Directors, the planning committee, was left Board of Governance (BOG) in­with approximately $20,000 to creased the student activity fee work with all year. This figure 
l 
to $75 for the 1993-94 school is not a large one considering 1 year. events like a first-run movie ~ Unlike room and board or can easily demand over $800, 1 food serviee fees which tend to according to Rosenbush. To 
~ 
increase on a regular basis, the present only a small-time Student Government fee has speaker, similarly, will cost the not seen such a significant ad­group close to $2,500, she said. vance for much of the past Saint Mary's students com­decade, according to Saint pleted surveys last spring voic­Mary's director of Student ing their opinions on the vari­Activities Georgeanna ous types of activities made Rosenbush. available to them. Their re­
Despite the increase, student sponses were largely in favor of government fees at Saint a fee increase if it would pro­Mary's are still substantially vide more events on a more lower than other schools of the frequent basis,said Rosenbush. same size. Such fees at other In the first week of classes, colleges often range from $100 the Saint Mary's campus has to $300 per student, Rosenbush presented students with a mul­said. titude of events sponsored by 
"In the past 11 years that I SAB, according to Jill Hotek, have been at Saint Mary's, the the SAB Coordinator. She lists annual increase of the student a unique movie series, former government fee has been a "Arsenio Hall Show" guests, very gradual one; one that comedians, bands, a flood relief could not keep up with stan­walk and a festival as just a dard inflation," Rosenbush handful of the events to be said. coming to SMC this semester. 
In addition, Saint Mary's The Student Government
Dems warm to senate challenges 
overall enrollment has declined sponsors the majority of stu­in recent years, which has also dent activities both on and off By JOHN KING Thomas Kean said he would early favorite in the Republican relinquished much of the campus throughout the school group's funding, she added. year. The group initiates and
Associated Press not run. Senate GOP leader Bob primary field. 
The student activity fee for promotes everything fromDole and other prominent Democrats also believe they 
the 1992-93 school year was dances to informative speakers, WASHINGTON Republicans had urged Kean to have decent shots at picking up $40 per student. Following the and has done so on a very lim­
The lineup and history sug­run. seats in Delaware, Minnesota, 
distribution of these funds to ited budget in recent years. 
gest Democrats face a tough Another GOP target is Wyoming and perhaps Mon­
fight in 1994 Senate contests, Michigan Democratic Sen. Don tana, where GOP Sen. Conrad 
but several recent develop­Riegle, who got some good Burns is up for re-election. 
Freeh wasting no time in 
ments have the Democrats voic­news Wednesday when Former University of Montana ing some cheer. Macomb County prosecutor Law School Dean Jack Mudd In all, there are 34 Senate Carl Marlinga dropped his pri­announced his candidacy for 
assuming FBI's top post 
contests next November, 21 for mary challenge. the Burns seat last week, after seats now held by Democrats Riegle is vulnerable several better known 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK that he's always been headed
and 13 for seats now in Repub­because he was one of the so­Democrats decided against the Associated Press Writer for a "boss" position. But thenlican hands. And the party that called Keating Five, senators race. 
he said: "I am decisive and I do
controls the White House-now who took large contributions "We've had a very good WASHINGTON make decisions. When I make the Democrats-traditionally from since-convicted savings month," says Democratic Sen. 
The boxes in his office them, I'll expect them to be fi­
loses seats in midterm elec­and loan operator Charles Bob Graham of Florida, head of weren't all unpacked yet, but nal."
tions. Keating and his associates. The the party's Senate campaign FBI Director Louis Freeh His first day at work, the 43­So Republicans are predict­Senate ethics committee said arm. 
stepped easily into his new sur­year-old former agent, federaling gains, and even broaching Riegle broke no laws, but "Of course they are happy roundings as head of the prosecutor and federal judgethe idea of picking up the seven showed poor judgment. -there were no Senate elec­nation's most prestigious law summoned the four major tele­seats necessary to become the Marlinga said he was being tions in August," said National enforcement agency. vision networks and six printmajority. But Democrats feel a a realist about his chances after Republican Senatorial A day after he was sworn in reporters to separate inter­bit better about their chances seeing what he called "strong, Committee spokesman Gary with President .Clinton in atten­views. 
at the close of the summer than widespread support" for Riegle Koops, who was quick to note dance, Freeh began living up tothey did a few months ago. among Democrats. that Republicans have won the description provided by ca­He also spent two hours with Republicans have made But state Sen. Lana Pollack both Senate elections since reer Justice Department prose-· the heads of the bureau's divi­of remains in the primary race President Clinton was elected.
Democratic Sen. Frank 
cutor David Margolis, "With
Lautenber'g of New Jersey a against Riegle, and vows to Republicans concede 
Louis, there's never any ques­
prime 1994 target, but the GOP make ethics the centerpiece is­Kean's decision was a loss, but 
tion about who's the boss." 
lost its best potential candidate sue. Former state GOP Chair­still think they have the early 
Freeh, in an interview Thurs­
this week when former Gov. man Spencer Abraham is the edge in Senate contests. 
day, demurred from the notion 
A.INLIICE 
.-CIMMPIIN 
TtJfMII 
Tlae ltloUo Tlaat ltlotlvates • 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 • 7:30PM 
Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. O'Laughlin Auditorium All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of Saint Mary's College pride each time its worn or displayed. 
$16, $11 non-Saint Mary's students, and 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
$10 Saint Mary's students atSaint Mary's College Box Office. Charge By Phone Dial 219-284-4626. 
Distributed by:
1-800-597-2461 
Look for George's latest album, SUMMER, at 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
your favorite music store. Michiana residents 
209 E.. Colfax Ave. -2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617
Please join us in support ofthe Centerfor the Homeless by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert 
Look for theN' Image Logo on the tag. t's your guarantee of qual~y. Why settle for second best7 
Play like a Champion Today. "'pmding
A DANCING CAT PRODUCTION 
sions to fmd out what problems needed his attention first, and felt comfortable enough to leave the office to jog on the Mall. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, Freeh declined to attribute his deci­siveness to any particular per­son or situation, and the Jersey City, N.J., native denied that he grew up being the bully on the block . 
Instead, he said in response to a question, he was often beaten up. 
And did he beat up other kids? 
"Not without a good reason." 
Freeh's selection was hailed universally by Democrats, Re­publicans and FBI agents when Clinton named him to replace William Sessions, whom Clinton fired for ethical lapses. 
Some problems that will de­mand Freeh's immediate atten­tion will be coping with budget cuts for the 1995 fiscal year and advising Attorney General Janet Reno on whether to merge the Drug Enforcement Administration into the FBI. 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 3, 1993 
US to partially finance :a Mideast peace settlement 
By RUTH SINAI ~iated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration is trying to gather some $200 million for the start~up of Palestinian self~rule in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza -most of it from its allies in the Mideast, Europe and Japan. 
The initial international aid package, as well as the prospect of millions more down the road, was an essen­tial sweetener to convince the financially strapped PLO to accept the historic accord with Israel on self-government, said experts and officials familiar with the Mideast negotiations. 
The money is also viewed as vital to the launch of the five-year interim self-govern· ment plan, worked out in secret Israel-PLO talks, which it is hoped will serve as a cata­lyst for Mideast peace. 
'If the Palestinians see no economic benefit from this agreement, if their lives con· tinue to be miserable and des· perate, then how can this suc­ceed?" asked one U.S. official close to the 22-month Arab­Israeli peace talks. 
"The funds, I think, will come primarily from others," said Secretary of State Warren Christopher in an interview Thursday with National Public Hadio. "The United States, as usual, will do its part, and I think we will try to help facili­tate the contributions," he added. 
U.S. officials are putting together a so-called Early Empowerment Fund -money that would be given to the Palestinians once Israel hands over to them control of five areas: education, health, wel­fare, labor and tourism, said an official familiar with the planning. He spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
The $200 million package promised to the Palestinians would consist of $25 million from the United States -dis· cretionary funds for which the administration wouldn't need congressional approval; $25 million from Japan; $50 mil­lion from the European Community and $100 million from Saudi Arabia, said the official. 
In addition, Israel ha.s promised to transfer $50 mil­lion in tax money it has col­lected from the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza to the Early Empowerment Fund, h~ said. 
All this money, the official said, would be used for a start-up period of possibly one year, during which an assess­ment would be made of how much the Palestinian self-gov• ernment will need when it assumes complete control of all the West Bank and Gaza, he said. 
Under the Israel-PLO agreement, initialed Aug. 20 after secret talks in Norway, the Palestinians will assume complete control of these regions six months after the pact is signed. 
Negotiations are still under way in the Middle East on terms of mutual PLO-Israel recognition, which would open the way for signature of the self-government plan in Washington. 
The United States has proposed an international aid package of $100 million a year for an indefinite period after the start-up. said another source familiar with the Mideast negotiations. Additional money, it is hoped, would come from the Palestinians themselves once they start levying taxes on their population. 
The Scandinavian coun­tries have already pledged some $150 million for a future Palestinian government. 
The PLO is also asking for emergency money to cover deficits accrued by hospitals, universities and other institu~ tions in the occupied territo­ries since money from the Persian Gulf states was cut off in the Gulf War, said Leonard Housman, Director of Harvard University's Institute for Social and Economic Policy in the Middle East. Housman met with PLO chairman Yasser Arafat in Tunis last Friday. 
Saudi Arabia and the other Persian Gulf countries cut off aid to the Palestinians in the territories to punish them f9r the PLO's support of Iraq dw· 
ingthe war. ······• Housman said that in addi­tion to the initial aid for the 
Palestinian self-government, studies have shown that an . infusion of $500 million Jo · 
$700 million a year would q~.needed. ..• , · 

Israel, PLO headed toward pact 
By NEIL MacFARQUHAR Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 
Yasser Arafat and the PLO expect to return soon to the ter­ritories now occupied by Israel, the Palestinian leader said Thursday, as both sides said mutual recognition may come within days. 
The two longtime foes are moving rapidly toward a signed agreement on Palestinian self­rule in the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho that would bring the PLO back to the occupied lands. 
PLO chairman Arafat con­vened a crucial meeting of Fatah, the mainstream faction of the Palestine Liberation Or­ganization, in Tunisia late Thursday in an effort to win support for the autonomy gree­ment he negotiated secretly with Isr&el. 
"I am sure I will see you soon," Arafat told a gathering at Bir Zeit University in the West Bank Thursday in a letter faxed from his headquarters in Tunis. "You will see the PLO back in its homeland. We will go together to our Jerusalem." 
Parallel negotiations on mutu­al recognition between the PLO and the Jewish state hit snags, officials said Thursday. But they said that the minor problems were expected to be ironed out within days. 
"There are some for­mulations that should be settled and agreed upon, and I expect it may occur during the next few days," said Dr. Ahmed Tibi, a Palestinian physician from Jerusalem who is close to Arafat. He spoke to The Asso­ciated Press. 
One misunderstanding was that Arafat thought Israel would be satisfied with a restatement of his 1988 decla­rations renouncing terrorism and accepting Israel's right to exist, said an Israeli source. speaking on condition of anonymity. 
But Israeli officials demand a new statement that is also "authoritative" -approved by the PLO central commitee and like groups, said the source. 
Speaking in Brussels, Belgium, Peres said Thursday that Palestinian self-rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho could start immediately. He told a news conference the accord needed only a Palestinian sig­nature. 
Mutual recognition could quickly become a reality, too, he said. 
"If the Palestinians would like to add the second agreement to the first, we don't have any objection to it," Peres said. "If it takes another few days, it can take another few days." 
The Egyptian newspaper al­Ahram reported Thursday that Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin would meet this month in Egypt after the autonomy agreement was signed, but PLO officials later denied the report. 
Under the self-rule plan, the Israeli army would first with­draw from the Gaza Strip and Jericho, where Palestinians would then start running their own affairs. 
Elsewhere in the West Bank, Palestinians would start run­ning some aspects of daily life, including health care, edu­cation, tourism, trade and agri­culture. 
Electi'ons for a council admin­istering autonomy would be held within nine months of the signing of the agreement. 
Arafat has ordered comman­ders in Yemen to prepare PLO fighters there to be policemen in Jericho and the Gaza Strip, PLO officials said. 
Rabin said on Israel radio that the shooting death Thursday of a soldier in the West Bank would not affect the planned agreement. "Terror was, is and will be," Rabin said. " ... The horizons of peace are clear." 
President Clinton said Thursday he saw reason for hope in Mideast peace talks and praised both sides for being committed to reaching agree­ment. 
Arafat, who toured Arab capi­tals to sell the plan, returned from Morocco for Thursday night's central committee meet­ing of Fatah. One Fatah official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he expected discussions to be stormy. 
He said 16 of the 18-member ruling body attended the closed-door session, with one member out ill and the second, a critic of the accord, failing to show up. 
More than one session proba­bly will be held before a deci­sion is made, the official added. He said several members were not only critical of the accord, but irate at being kept in the dark during eight months of secret negotiations. 
Arafat needs Fatah's endorse­ment before proposing the accord for approval by the PLO Executive Committee and the Palestine National Council, or parliament in exile. 
Rejectionists both within the PLO and in the fundamentalist Islamic movements said Arafat should not have agreed to post­pone discussions on the status of Jerusalem, which they want as a capital for an independent Palestinian state. They also said he should have gotten a firm commitment to establish that state. 
"You see it far distanced. I see it very close," Arafat said in his letter. 
Wclca•c lack Sapha•arcs!
AniDIICiiiJDirISS3-MClassCOIICil 
Sophomore Class Council 1993-94: Officers and Comissioners 
President: Vice-President: Secretary: Treasurer: Chief of Staff: Fundraising Comissioners: 
Service Comissioners: 
Publicity Comissionaers: 
Liturgical Comissioner: Social Comissioners: 
Dorm Representatives Alumni -Tim Wickman Badin -Shelia Navagh B.P. -Nicole Chlapetta Cavanaugh -Jason Laurie Dillon · Matt Nielson Farley -Anne Stricherz Fisher -Jack Walser Flanner -Theo Helm Grace -Liberty DeLeon Howard -Julie McCarthy Keenan -Dave Brower Lewis -Amanda DePaolo Lyons -Kiki Mitchell Pangborn -Melanie Sissel 
P.E. -Jen casaletto P.W.-Missy Deckard 
Michaela Kendall  x3390  218 Lewis  
Sara Ford  x2341  310 Pangborn  
Lauren Aimonette  x1334  339 B.P.  
Marc MacDonald  x1770  304 Dillon  
John Galvin  Dillon  
Jim Delaney  Dillon  
Mark Farrell  Grace  
Kristen Doty  P.E.  
Ryan Montoya  Grace  
Michael Wigton  Zahm  
Michael O'Hara  Morissey  
Lisa Reidmiller  B.P.  
Alison Fogarty  Howard  
Nicole Bohn  Siegfried  
Kathryn Cavanaugh  Lyons  
Matthew Ford  Dillon  
Karen Fronduti  Pangborn  
Dorm Reps (continued)  
St. Ed's-Jun-Jun G apasin  
Siegfried -Debbi Shapiro  
Sorin -Charlie Eppinger  

Stanford -Fernando carrelra Walsh -Kathy Timons zahm -Dominic Amorosa 
Council Representalives AI Hosinski (Grace) Dianne Longabucco (B.P.) Jason Newland (Dillon) Greg osmanski (Dillon) Kara Woitkowski (P.E.) Katrina Worman (Pangborn) Jim Dowd (Morissey) Oantl Yo (Lyons) 
Slipbyt•rSlp~I.C ClassllliccII 215LaF1nuncwilbIIJSIIICSiiiiSirCYCIISJllWRI~ likcllsccplana. 
Pilleat-me lllccIIIII: ...I:IH:tl 1'1m.l:»4:11 
C•IDIS.-Wclce•BackSI,~I.IrcCiassJIII 
ScpiCIUcrll.l:ll,.lll•• lllrcDetailsLalal 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page? 

IRT' 

The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body 

Intimidation is Cool 
Available at: 
Football Ticket Sales Dining Halls LaFortune Information Desk The Notre Dame Bookstore The Alumni Association JACC Varsity Shop 
'As~ 
All Proceeds Benefit Charitable and Student Organizations -:1, • ~· 
·~--~----, 
pageS The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 3, 1993 

The Observer/ John Bingham 
Reaping the benefits 
A student enjoys the luxuries of a the newly updated computer labo­ratory in the DeBartolo computer lab. 
Union head urges against _replacing striking miners 
ByJOHN McCLAIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The United Mine Workers president says violence is like­ly if coal companies begin replacing miners who have been on strike since May. 
''I'm saying if you strike a match and you put your finger in it, you're likely to get burned," UMW President Richard told reporters Thursday after being asked if hiring replacements would result in violence. 
Trumka, beginning a Labor Day coalfield mobilization, said he thinks some of the struck coal companies may attempt to hire striker replacements "in the next couple of weeks." 
He emphasized he was not threatening violence and said his union has spent "thou­sands of man-hours trying to prevent anything from hap­pening . . . to our members or by our members." 
But he asserted, "Common sense will tell you that in these strikes, that when you inject scabs, a number of things hap-pen," including a violent con­frontation. 

"I think you'd have to be very naive to believe if they tried to bring these scabs that there won't be some of that (violence) somewhere," he said. "And it won't be because we don't try to stop it. We have and we will." 
"Do I want it to happen?" he asked. "Absolutely not." Do I think it can happen? Yes, I think it can happen." 
The strike against the Bituminous Coal Operators Association began May 10 and now includes 17,000 mine workers in seven states in Appalachia and the Midwest. The UMW says job security is its chief concern, while the operators say they need more competitive work rules. 
Negotiators have been meet­ing here since Aug. 11 under the auspices of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. The meetings, the first formal face-to-face ses­sions since May, resume next Tuesday, Trumka said. 
But, he maintained, "There have been no negotiations yet. ... There is no dialogue." 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors Business Editor Copy Editor Associate News Editors Typists 
Submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough by Wed., Sept. Lor contact Meredith at 631-5323 as soon as osssible. 
Health plan to cover most by '96 
By NANCY BENAC Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Most Americans will be guar­anteed medical coverage by 1996 under President Clinton's health-care reform plan, the White House said Thursday. The administration also ruled out short-term price controls. 
President Clinton vowed to bring down the soaring costs of health care but insisted, "I don't think we have to have a bureaucratic system of price controls to do it." Drug com­pany stocks rose on the news. 
He rejected suggestions the health reforms could cost America jobs, saying, "I believe that this will be a job generator if we implement it sensibly and gradually and over time we slow the rate of growth of health care costs." 
Clinton aides in the past have estimated it would take five to seven years to phase in the president's sweeping health­care reform plan. But in re­sponse to a Washington Post report that the plan would not be fully implemented until 1998, the White House said Thursday that the new system should be "up and running" in a number of states as early as 1995. 
"The vast majority of the American people will have guaranteed coverage by 1996," the statement said. "There will be a firm deadline of December 1997 for any remaining states that are not yet a part of the system." 
Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a non-profit group that has sponsored studies on the need for health reform, said the White House timetable repre­sented "a pretty fast implemen­tation schedule .... I don't know that you could move much quicker than three or four years from passage." 
However, the Clinton plan drew sharp criticism from Rep. Jim McDermott, D-Wash., who advocates a Canadian-style, government-run system. He said the White House "appears to be going down the wrong road without a road map." 
McDermott said he was called back from Seattle to attend a briefing Wednesday where White House officials could pro­vide no cost estimates or· details on Medicare and Medicaid fi. nancing. 
McDermott predicted there could be "wholesale defections from the Democratic side of aisle" and that health care costs could "soar through the roor· without cost controls be­tween now and 1988. 
Clinton is holding a series of intensive policy meetings this week to decide the final shape of his plan, due to be unveiled this month. 
A key sticking point has been how to pay for the plan, which will guarantee coverage to all Americans. Clinton plans to re­quire all employers and em­ployees to help pay for health insurance, with government subsidies for low-wage workers and small businesses. 
Higher cigarette and tobacco taxes have long been expected and alcohol taxes also have been considered an option. CBS reported Clinton had signed off 
..---------------··--------------------------,
Cl W93 The Olive Garden Restaurants. 

At The Olive Garden there's still time to enjoy r~ exciting funtasticfood like pasta chips and dip,~ 
1111 
tasty, tricolor ravioletti @ grilled zucchini rigotoni, .....se..a-so......nal salads, & a marvelous mixed grill combo 
and Funtastico desserts. And a trip to Italy.* But do come in soon, with family and friends, before the sun sets on 


South Bend, opposite University Pk. Mall, 277-6503. 
• No purchase necenary. See your local participohng Olive Gorden Restaurant for complete rules and details. Res1dent1 of CA. Ml, & OH can moil a postcard with the•r nome, address, Z•p code and phoM nvmberto: Summer Funlosnco Sweepstakes, 175 5th Ave., #2800. NY. NY 10010. Entries must be rece1ved by 9/6/93. Open to resident> of conhnental U.S. who ore 1B yean or older. Odds of winning depend on number of entries received. Winnen chosen in a random drawing. \k)id where prohibtted. 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
US continues hunt for warlord Aidid 
Argentine 
By REID MILLER like the back of his hand and Nations put a $25,000 bounty 
..:~:::t&fiil1}~#.f:i:::!:W~:,.::~:.:: .·. 
on sex a 
BUENOS AIRES 
Doctors examined 268 chil-· dren Thursday after police raided 10 homes used by an alleged religion-and-sex cult.. Police said they seized explic~~ · videos ofsex between childre and adults. 
The children, including some Americans. were in homes occupied by the Family. an offshoot of the Children ot God sect founded in California in the 1960s, authoritiessaid. 
Similar raids on the group have been made in other countries, including one in France last month in which at least 72 children were placed under foster care. 
The Family has been accused of using female mem­bers to seduce prospective male members, and of encour­
sexual practices. 
A spokesman for the cult 
at its base in England denied 
the group engaged in child 
abuse. 
Most of the adults and 
children detained after th 
raids in Buenos Aires early 
Wednesday were foreigners, 
said Federal Court Secretary 
Jorge Sica. Besides the United 
States, they were from 
Canada, Britain, France, 
Brazil, Venezuela and other 
countries. 
Police said 30 adults were 
also detained. 
Twelve of the adults were 
charged with conspiracy to' 
kidnap and conceal children, 
Sica said. Police also confis­
cated promotional videos that 
showed "explicit and free sex 
between" adults and children, 
said Federal Prosecutor Carlos 
50TH ANNIVERSARY 
SOME THINGS JUST GET BETTER AS TIME GOES BY 
Xuwtpluey dmpid 
~~~A~T ·~~~~MAN 

C I NEMH HT THE SN ITE 
FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45 
Associated Press Writer 
MOGADISHU 
The U.S. Navy P-3 Orion drones high over Mogadishu, tracing a precise pattern through the sky in a high-tech search for one man in a million. 
The mission is specific: Find Gen. Mohamed Farrah Aidid, the elusive Somali warlord ac­cused by the United Nations of masterminding dozens of at­tacks on U.N. personnel. Four Americans and 24 Pakistanis are among the casualties. 
From its position nearly a mile high, the Orion could count the hairs on Aidid's bald­ing head-if only it can find him. 
The Navy has long used the four-engine Orion to hunt for submarines and more recently for drug smugglers along America's long coasts. Flying at 5,000 feet, it is packed with ul­tramodern electronics-highly sensitive listening devices and cameras that when used in space can capture the state motto off an automobile license plate. 
But to find Aidid, the Orion and a clutch of high-tech heli­copters with similar capabilities will also need luck. 
The search involves scanning 
a city that the fugitive knows where many of its 1 million res­idents support him. 
Jonathan Howe, the retired 
U.S. admiral who is in overall charge of the U.N. operation in Somalia, says Aidid's day-by­day whereabouts are generally known. 
Others are not so sure. 
"Aidid appears to leave little trace of a signature and that is a challenge even with our tech­nology," said Maj. David Stockwell, a spokesman for the military side of the U.N. opera­tion. 
In communications intelli­gence, a "signature" is a com­monly used radio frequency. a recognizable voice on constant­ly changing frequencies or a familiar pattern of non-voice communications. Even if those communications are encoded, they can be recognized and their sources pinpointed. 
The search for Aidid began after 24 Pakistani peacekeepers were killed June 5 in a series of ambushes in south Mogadishu, the part of the city controlled by Aidid. 
A week later, U.N. forces be­gan their own nightly air and ground assaults on Aidid's weapons caches. On June 17, Howe announced what was al­ready clear. that Aidid was a wanted man, and the United on his head. 
The U.N. attacks included a fiery bombardment of Aidid's home and principal command and control center on July 12. The International Red Cross says 54 Somalis died and 17 4 were wounded. 
In retaliation, a Somali mob set upon reporters, photogra­phers and television news crews with knives, rocks and guns, killing an Associated Press photographer and three Reuters employees. 
The assaults drove Aidid un­derground and brought a back­lash from some countries, U.S. lawmakers and charitable organizations. Critics said the United Nations, in seeking to punish the warlord. was forsak­ing the humanitarian role that brought it to Somalia in the first place. 
Howe and the U.N. military argued othrwise. They could continue their effort to capture Aidid, they said, without jeop· ardizing their mission to re­build a nation shattered by three years of civil war, famine and anarchy. More than 350,000 people died in 1992 alone before U.S. troops were dispatched in December. United Nations assumed control in May. 
Vatican to send envoy to China 
allegiance to the pope. The gov­ernment arrested and jailed thousands who refused. 
China has consistently de­manded that the Holy See sever relations with nationalist Taiwan as a condition to restor­ing diplomatic ties. It also has accused the Vatican of interfer­ing in Chinese affairs. 
Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro acknowledged Thursday that contacts had been going on for some time with Beijing. 
The cardinal's visit "is testi­mony of the sincere desire of the Holy See to encounter the reality of the great Chinese na­tion and establish links of re­spect, friendship and coopera­tion with the Chinese people," Navarro said. 
The pope has expressed in· terest in visiting China, and there has been talk that such a visit could be arranged, along with a trip to Vietnam, when the pope travels to the Philippines in January 1995 for World Youth Day. 
China's Patriotic Catholic Association claims 3 million members while estimates of Catholics loyal to Rome vary widely and range up to 5 mil­lion. 
Navarro said the cardinal will bring the pope's blessing and affection to "all Chinese Catholics," a conciliatory refer­ence. 
Home Based Bed/Breakfast Alliance 
Local, Family Comfort for all ND activities 
(219) 271--0989 
24 hour answering machine 
By VICTOR SIMPSON 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
On the eve of Pope John Paul II's historic trip to the former Soviet Union, the Vatican ap­peared ready to break through another barrier -its 40-year standoff with China. 
The Vatican announced that a senior cardinal left Thursday for Beijing, the highest-ranking official of the Roman Catholic Church ever to visit the Communist country. 
French Cardinal Roger Etchegaray arrived Friday morning. 
While no immediate agree­ments were expected, the visit by Etchegaray could lead to a thaw in relations between the Vatican and Beijing and pave the way for a possible visit by the pope. 
Recalling the invitation to an American pingpong team that preceded President Nixon's historic visit to China in 1972, Etchegaray was invited by or­ganizers of China's national athletic games and will attend Saturday's opening ceremony. 
The Vatican said he also would meet with government officials. 
Etchegaray heads the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, the Vatican's agency for contacts with the developing world. He has been a major diplomatic trou­bleshooter. making visits to such countries as Lebanon, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Vietnam in recent years. 
John Paul leaves Saturday for a seven-day visit to Lithuania; Latvia and Estonia, the three newly independent Baltic republics. 
The pope had long hoped to make the visit, especially to Lithuania. With its 2.7 million Roman Catholics, the republic was a stronghold of Catholicism in the former Soviet Union. But requests to visit Lithuania, first in 1984 and again in 1987, were denied by Moscow, ac­cording to the Vatican. 
The end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union have made the visit pos­sible. 
China severed diplomatic ties with the Vatican in the 1950s and formed the govern­ment-controlled Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association. It ordered Catholics to renounce 

Look What's 
Happened! 
MICHELE 
(with one "L") 
is finally 21! 
Happy Birtday, Michele! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and john 

-------------~---~---­
page 10 Friday, September 3, 1993
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Clinton sets Midvvest flood relief 
By JAMES H. RUBIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration announced plans Thursday for distributing aid to the flood­ravaged Midwest, saying states and local governments will have to pick up between 10 and 25 percent of the cost. 
One Republican gover­nor accused President Clinton of reneging on a promise to pay for all the losses, and a spokesman for another called the plan "grossly unfair." 
A formula announced by the Federal Emergency Management Agency would require the federal government to pay 90 percent of the cost of damage to public facilities ­but only if a state's total losses exceed $64 per person. None of the nine Midwestern states so far has met that standard. 
The government would pay 75 percent of the cost for any state with less than $64 in damage per resident. 
Republican Gov. Terry Brans tad of Iowa said President Clinton led him to believe the federal government would pay all the costs. 
"It's certainly better than nothing, but it's not what the president promised," 
Iowa escapes disease in flooding 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
Iowa got lucky. It escaped the summer flood with no ma­jor outbreaks of disease, de­spite closed doctors' offices, lack of drinking water and a multitude of germs lurking in floodwater. 
But Iowa residents face injury as they clean up and rebuild, and farmers especially will suf­fer from flood-related stress, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned Thursday in a report. 
Months of record flooding led to an estimated $10 billion in damage in nine Midwestern states. Iowa, with extensive flood damage in all 99 counties, is just beginning to dry out. 
"Overall, the big impact is going to be on their mental health, as farmers are faced with meeting payments on loans when they don't have any crops," said Dr. Lynn Quenemoen, a CDC investigator who spent much of the summer in Iowa. 
"You might be seeing more problems in families, with sub­stance abuse and suicides." 
For two months, Iowans bat­tled rising water, contaminated wells and the threat of diseases 
Michigan State 
Weekend 
ROOMS AVAILABLE 
IN SOUTH BEND 
September 17-18 
Notre Dame Club of Washington, D.C. (301) 589-3552 (work) (301) 253-5182 (home) 
Branstad said. "We hope this isn't the last we hear of it." 
He said Iowa will be forced to come up with $70 mil­lion it doesn't have even if, as expected, the state's losses exceed $64 per person. 
Michael Lawrence, spokesman for GOP Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois, said, "We think it's grossly unfair." He said it is likely Illinois will not qualify for the 90-10 split while neighboring Missouri probably will. 
"That means a small town in Illinois that has been devastated will receive 75 per­cent of its cost, and a town right acorss the river in Missouri will receive 90 per­cent," Lawrence said. "The logic of that escapes me." 
North Dakota Gov. Ed Schafer, also a Republican, said the state expected all along it would be required to pay 25 percent. 
"It's disappointing that they're not going higher. But here, for our financial plan­ning, we've always looked at 75-25," he said. 
Administration officials attending a "flood summit" in Des Moines, Iowa, last week said the president likely would waive the requirement that states and communities pay a 
from diarrhea to salmonella. CDC an Teale warned. Doctors' offices closed -200 of Iowa residents are injuring them in Polk County, home of themselves while tearing out Des Moines and 324,000 peo­waterlogged carpets and walls ple. and could be poisoned by lead­
based paint while cleaning up 
Sewer and water systems older homes. shut down, including the entire public water system of Des Contaminated wells should be Moines for 12 days. professionally cleaned and any Mosquitoes, potential carriers food that could have been taint-
of encephalitis, swarmed in ed by flood waters or lost elec-,.--===------:=--=--------------, 
stagnant water. tricity should be dumped, the 
But the CDC found no out­health officials said. breaks of disease caused by the Then there are the effects on flooding in its study of surveys mental health. filled out by doctors and health Doctors haven't reported any departments that served flood­flood-related suicides, but sub­ed areas in Iowa. stance abuse and mental health 
The worst health problems clinics around the state have were carbon monoxide poison­had more patients since July ing from gas-powered genera­15, the CDC said. tors, electrocution and infection "It's not something that, OK, of existing wounds, the CDC the flood waters are gone so said. the problem's over," Teale 
State health officials got said. "The farmers especially treatment to the hardest-hit ar­deal with the stress of the eas promptly and effectively water. the stress in October broadcast advice to help people when they see other farmers stay safe, the CDC said. harvesting, again in January 
"We were lucky, and the when their loans come due and public health system was work­they get the nasty bank notes." ing well," health department
spokesman Kevin Teale said. r------------..!;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:::;:::;::;!,. 

"But we've been battling lots of rumors and lots of fear." 
The threat of disease is receding with the water, but other problems remain, the 
fourth of the cleanup costs. But it is unclear whether the promised waiver would be un­conditional. 
FEMA said Thursday the administration is keeping its word to increase the level of aid for the most needy. 
"The intent here is to relieve the burden on catas­trophic disasters, those hardest hit," said FEMA spokesman Morrie Goodman. 
He said the $64 thresh­old is the same applied to vic­tims of Hurricanes Hugo and Andrew. 
The per capita loss in South Carolina from Hurricane Hugo in 1989 was $133, and $157 for Florida residents hit by Hurricane Andrew last year. 
Documented damages in the Midwest so far do not approach those figures, FEMA said. And Goodman said it is unclear whether any of the Midwestern states will qualify for the 90-10 aid once all the damage is added up. 
Congress approved a $5.7 billion aid package for the Midwestern states. Total flood damage is estimated at more than $10 billion. And officials of Midwestern states expect to ask Congress for more money later and may consider tax increases and budget cuts. 
Need the Perfect Gifl Idea or Getaway? May we Su&S~t, 
The Bei8c:r f1ansio~ Inn (?) fables Gallery Get away or get a gift certificate. Stay tn one ofour luxury rooms, lunch in our tearoom, enjoy afabulous Saturday night dinner in our State dining room, or select a work ofart from Fables Gallery. Gift certificates available in any dollar amowlt. Plan now for a birthday, an anniversary, honeymoon, or just to say "I love you." 
LUNCHEON DINNER 
Tuesday thru Saturday Saturday evenings only 11:00 AM.-2:00P.M. 6:00 P.M. -9:00 P.M. 
(219) 256-0365 • 317 Lincoln Way East • Mishawaka, Indiana 46544 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Editor Copy Editor Columnist 
To apply, submit a resume and personal statement to Kenya Johnson by Friday, Sept. 3. Contact Kenya at 631-4540 for more information. 
Panel hears further T~lhook allegations 
ByJOE TAYLOR 
Associated Press Writer 
NORFOLK 
The commander of a unit that had strippers visit their hotel room during the Tailhook convention was described Thursday to a Navy panel as moral and upstand· ing. 
Cmdr. Robert Stumpf, who now heads the Navy's Blue Angels, took five junior offi· cers from his squadron of F-A· 18 Hornets to the aviators' convention in September 1991. Stumpf was named commander of the precision flying squad in November, but was temporarily reassigned in May pending the outcome of his case. 
Stumprs group rented two rooms at the Las Vegas Hilton, and on the night of Sept. 7, 1991, two ~trippers showed up at one room, witnesses said. 
Witnesses told Pentagon in­vestigators that one woman performed oral sex on a junior officer. 
A three-member fact-finding panel at the Norfolk Naval Base is hearing testimony on whether Stumpf permitted misconduct by others. Stumpf has denied knowing about the incident. 
Lt. Carl Trahan. one of the junior officers in Stumpf's squadron at the convention, 
Parents Keep In Touch! Subsribe To The Observer. 
said he remembered seeing Stumpf in the room before the women arrived, but could not remember seeing him there later. 
Lt. Steve Frick, another member of Stumpf's unit at Tailhook, stayed in the squadron's other hotel room. He said Stumpf returned 
· around 10 p.m. and went to bed. It wasn't clear what time the strippers were in the other room. "I think it's pretty shocking that these kinds of actions are being brought against him," Frick said. Capt. Joseph Mobley, who served with Stumpf on the USS Saratoga during the Persian Gulf War, said Stumpf is a man of character. "I be live in his integrity. I believe in his leadership skills. I believe in his morality," Mobley said. Vice Adm. Paul Reason, the Navy's top Tailhook authority, had recommended a letter of censure in Stumprs case, but the recommendation was turned down by the secretary of the Navy. Last month, Reason appoint­ed several panels to review again the cases of Stumpf and four other senior officers. Testimony in Stumprs case was scheduled to resume next week. 


The Observer/ John Bingham
The Copy Shop is still making copies 
The Copy Shop is now where The Country Harvester was last year. The shops in the basement of the LaFortune student center relocated within the basement this year. 
Russians agree on space venture 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Residents struggle to cope with hurricane damage 
By PAUL NOWELL 
Associated Press Writer 
HATIERAS, N.C. 
Hurricane Emily caused hurricanelike damage to only a tiny slice of the East Coast, but there -on the outermost reaches of the Outer Banks ­residents were struggling to cope Thursday. 
"We have no water. There's no electricity. We're using generators. It's just a hell hole down here," said a harried Christy Lane, 17, who answered the phone for her grandparents at Dolphin Realty Inc. 
"Our life has been changed forever," said James Caldwell, who is helping his sister and a brother clean up their homes -and his own -in heavily damaged Hatteras. 
In Dare County, which includes most of the Outer Banks and the easternmost portions of the mainland, pre­liminary damage estimates for residential and commercial property reached $10 million. 
Power was expected to be restored to about 75 percent of the 5,000 Hatteras Island buildings by the end of Thursday, said Myron Rummel, manager of Cape Hatteras Electric Membership Corp. Drinking water was available only from portable tanks and in bottles. 
Nearby Ocracoke Island, which had generator power, remained open only to resi­dents and emergency-related personnel and equipment. 
The Coast Guard on 
Thursday suspended its 

DOCKED AT THE 
100 CENTER 
MISHAWAKA 
CRUISES Tue. thru Sun. 2 &7 P.M. Fri., Sat., Sun. 2, 7, 9 P.M. Adults $7.00, Child $4.50 
TO 
theal LANDING 
CASUAL DINING 
Departure Prlnceaa leaves 100 Center, Mishawaka 7 p.m. arnves at "The Landing" 7:30 p.m. 
Entrees Choice of Prime Rib • Orange Roughy Chicken Hawaiian (includes eoup or salad and side dish) 
Departure Princess departs "lhe Landing" 9:30 p.m. to arrrves at 100 Center, Mishawaka 10:15 p.m. 
Fare Adults '20 Children to Includes boat tare, dinner, tax, gratu1ty and beverage 
RESERVATIONS REQUIRED 
289·4122 
search for two swimmers who disappeared in rough surf off Nags Head after the hurricane passed. 
Farther north on the island chain, around Kitty Hawk, tourism officials assured a flood of callers that Emily caused little damage there when it brushed by on Tuesday night, and that the area will be open for business as usual during Labor Day weekend. 
"We are getting a tremen­dous amount of calls. We were really blessed. All of our cot­tages were not damaged at all," said Sherlynne Bissell, owner of Resort Central in Kitty Hawk. 
Miniature golf courses are open and people were swim­ming in hotel pools. To the north of Oregon Inlet, things were proceeding as if nothing had happened. Stores that were once boarded up were open for business Thursday. Maintenance workers were busy mowing grass at condo­minium complexes, sprucing up for the last holiday week­end of the summer. 
Emily's eye, with 115 mph wind whirling around it, stayed just offshore as it passed the Outer Banks. The storm then headed far out to sea, but it was losing strength very slowly. 
On Thursday evening the hurricane still had maximum sustained wind of 105 mph as it swirled near latitude 39.1 degrees north and longitude 
60.0 west, or about 625 miles south-southwest of Cape Race, Newfoundland. 
Russians close book on American POW's 
Happy 21st! 
Love, 
Dad, Mom, Adam, and 
your best friend-Musti! 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG 
. Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The United States and Russia agreed Thursday to a joint ven­ture that could place Russians and Americans working side­by-side in a space station before the end of the decade. 
"The combined space station will be significantly better than any of the options we could orbit on our own," said Vice President AI Gore at a signing ceremony that ended two days of meetings with Russian Prime Minister Victor Chernomyrdin. 
"It is time to leave behind the vestiges of the Cold War and reach for a new partnership between the United States and Russia," said the vice presi­dent. 
The agreement, formally end­ing decades of competition in space, includes payment for the cash-hungry Russians of $100 million in the next year and another $300 million by 1997. 
Gore said Russian participa­tion in the international space station will enable it to go into orbit years earlier than origi­nally planned and at far lower cost. 
Also participating in the international project are European, Japanese, and Canadian space agencies. 
In addition to the space agree­ment, officials signed docu­ments designed to encourage investment by U.S. energy com­panies in Russia. Chernomyrdin and Gore also signed a memo­randum of understanding that commits Russia to abide by an international agreement that prohibits export of missile tech­
tory before and during World War II, Volkogonov said. 
He said such people, now liv­ing in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and the Baltic states, were elderly and did not wish to leave. 
"We have confirmed that no American POWs are currently being held in Russia," the American co-chairman, Mal­colm Toon, a former U.S. am­bassador to Moscow, said at a news conference. 
The commission compiled a nearly complete list of about 1,300 aircraft shot down by So­viet air forces and air defenses during the Korean War, includ" ing crash sites and dates, Volkogonov said. 

Cheers, Cheers, on your 21st Mark! Happy Birthday & Love From 
Mom, Dad, Patrick, Brian, Katie, & Gipper 
nology that could be used for weaponry. 
The Overseas Private Investment Cooperation signed agreements to create a private­ly managed investment fund and to provide $28 million in loan guarantees and insurance to help Texaco pursue an oil well restoration project in Siberia. 
OPIC will contribute $50 mil­lion and the Russian govern­ment $25 million to the invest­ment fund which will be man­aged by PaineWebber with the goal of raising several hundred million dollars from U.S. investors. 
Many U.S. corporations that have tried to do business in Russia since the collapse of the Soviet Union have encountered insurmountable bureaucratic hurdles. Russians have com-
U.S. investigators have been pursuing suspicions that Amer­icans were brought to the So­viet Union during the Korean War. The Pentagon said last month that it might have evi­dence of such transfers. 
Volkogonov said Russia had found no evidence that Ameri­can POWs were handed over to the Soviet Union by third coun­tries. 
Toon said that while it was highly unlikely the Soviets were involved with American POWs from the Vietnam War, there must have been substantial So­viet involvement with U.S. ser­vicemen taken prisoner during the Korean War. He did not elaborate. 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 
No American POWs are still living against their will in the former Soviet Union, a U.S.­Russian commission said Thursday in its most definitive statement yet. 
The commission has been looking into the fate of the thousands of American ser­vicemen still unaccounted for from World War II and the Ko­rean and Vietnam wars. It has never held out much hope of finding prisoners of war still alive. 
The Russian co-chairman, 
Gen. Dmitry Volkogonov, a mili­tary historian and an adviser to President Boris Yeltsin, said more than 22,000 Americans were held on Soviet territory during World War II. The over­whelming majority returned home and nearly all the rest died in prison camps, he said. 
"We believe that there are no Americans on the territory of the former Soviet Union, except persons who have willingly stayed here," Volkogonov said. "Such people and their ad­dresses are known by the U.S. side." 
Some U.S.-born ethnic Slavs with U.S. passports were forced to become Soviet citizens when the Soviet Union seized terri­

---------------~----~---~~------~ ----------~--­
GREATEST COACHES 
ROCI(NE 
page 12 
Collapse of talks leads toward surge 
By DUSAN STOJANOVIC Associated Press Writer 
GENEVA 
The collapse of Bosnian peace talks sets the scene for a surge in fighting and the esca­lation of human tragedy as the deadly cold of winter approaches. 
Talks between warring Serbs, Croats and Muslims broke off Wednesday, exactly one year after they were launched. President Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia said the proposed three-way partition of the republic failed to guar­antee the survival of a future Muslim state. 
Bosnian Serbs and Croats, the winners in the 17-month war, rejected Muslim demands for an additional 4 percent more land and access to the sea. Mediators had proposed giving Muslims 31 percent, Serbs 52 percent and Croats 17 percent. 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic has warned the Serbs and Croats may split the coun­try between themselves now that the talks have collapsed. 
However, the Serbs already control 70 percent of Bosnia and are unlikely to risk unleashing threatened NATO air strikes by grabbing land of little strategic or historic value to them. 
But fighting between former Muslim and Croat allies in cen­tral Bosnia is likely to intensify. Both sides claim towns where equal numbers of the two eth­nic groups lived in harmony before the war. 
lzetbegovic, forced by negoti­ating pressure and battlefield realities to agree to the princi­ple of ethnic partition, never hid his hatred of the peace package. 
"The signing of this plan would be tantamount to a col­lective suicide for the Mus­lims," he said. "Either we get a viable state, or no deal." 

ivl A I~ IG 0 L D tvl A1\ K ET 
TA\LGAfE ·~ 
PICN\~5~-~ 
~teDRJNKS 
~~r~~~~ ~H~Rl o·~wvm 

----..., .,..1, 
I 

Friday, September 3, 1993 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
US backs Bosnians, threatens use of force 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration on Thursday backed Bosnian Muslim negotiating demands for a larger slice of territory and threatened air strikes if Serbs and Croats resumed of­fensives against key cities. 
"First I would remind you that the NATO military option is very much alive," President Clinton said. 
He tied his threat to any re­sumption of Serb shelling of Sarajevo, the besieged Bosnian capital, or interference with re­lief supplies now that peace talks have broken down. 
The State Department broad­ened the threat to include any new Croat drive against Muslims in Mostar. 
The aim was to deter re­newed aggression even while prodding Serb and Croat nego­tiators to sweeten their offer to end the 17-month war in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
-It was rejected by Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic as inadequate to guarantee his country's survival and the talks in Geneva, Switzerland, col­lapsed Wednesday night. 
"Unfortunately, the war will continue," Croatian President Franjo Tudjman said after­ward. 
State Department spokesman Michael McCurry fired back: "That is a statement with omi­nous implications." 
He said a renewal of the shelling of Sarajevo or Mostar could prompt the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to imple­ment a plan to use force in de­fense of the Muslims. 
At the White House, Clinton held out hope for a quick re­sumption of the peace talks. 
"They are stalled," he said. "I don't believe they are col­lapsed. The United States will do everything it can in the next few days to get the parties to resume the talks in good faith." 
The president went on in an exchange with reporters: "If while the talks are in abeyance, there is abuse by those who would seek to interfere with the humanitarian aid, attack the protected areas and resume the sustained shelling of Sarajevo, for example, then first I would remind you that the NATO mili­tary option is very much alive. 
"And, secondly, I would say, as you know, I have always fa­vored lifting the arms embargo. I think the policy of the United Nations as it applies to that government is wrong. But I am in the minority. I don't know that I can prevail." 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, meanwhile, called on Serbia and Croatia to yield to demands from Bosnian Muslims for more territory. The Muslims would get nearly 31 percent of the land under the rejected proposal. They are seeking nearly 35 percent as well as access to the Adriatic Sea from Sarajevo. 
If there is a breakdown "because of the stubbornness and intransigence of the Serbs or the Croatians, the world community will certainly hold them responsible," Christopher said. 
Stiff messages, known to diplomats as demarches, were sent to Presidents Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia and to Tudjman, outlining the tough 
U.S. position. 
The United States supports the Muslims in their three main demands, a senior U.S. official said. These are that Sarajevo have a corridor to the sea, that 

·,:_ AND 'NEW YORK TIMES BESTSELLING AUTHOR 
STEPHEN SINGULAR 
Available at: HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Hours: Friday. Sept. 3'd 9-7 Saturday, Sept. 4'h 8-6 
' 
the Muslim area around Bihac in the northwest be enlarged and that a corridor be estab­lished between that area and a Muslim enclave in the center of the country. 
Christopher's support for the Muslim position, in a brief news conference outside his State Department office, should strengthen the Muslims' bar­gaining position if the talks are resumed. 
He said the United States "deeply regrets" the break­down in negotiations and added: 
"It's our evaluation that with the parties close to settlement and with the winter coming on it would be especially tragic if they don't grasp the opportu­nity to contain the settlement that seems to be within reach." 
At the same time, Christopher dismissed implementing soon the U.S. proposal to permit weapons to be delivered to the Muslim-dominated Bosnian government and to bomb Serb artillery sites. 
The immediate goal should be resuming the negotiations while retaining the option of lifting the U.N. arms embargo for "future consideration." 
Friday, September 3, I 993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
New leads in Demjanjuk case 
By KARIN LAUB Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
A Nazi hunter said Thursday he raised a new lead in the John Demjanjuk war crimes case with Israel's attorney gen­eral: a report that Demjanjuk told one of his jailers he was a soldier at a Nazi death camp. 
But Attorney General Yosef Harish gave no indication he would reverse his position that Demjanjuk, a retired Ohio au­toworker, should not be tried on new war crimes charges, Nazi hunter Efraim Zuroff said. 
A Supreme Court judge de­layed Demjanjuk's deportation again Thursday to allow further review of appeals by Holocaust survivors and Nazi hunters for a new trial. Demjanuk's depor­tation, originally set for Aug. 1 after a previous war crimes conviction was overturned, has been delayed five times. 
There was no indication when Justice Theodore Orr would rule. Orr could either reject all appeals and order Demjanjuk freed, or he could grant a hearing before five judges on whether there should be a new trial. 
In July, the Supreme Court overturned Demjanjuk's 1988 conviction and death sentence as the gas chamber operator "Ivan the Terrible" of Poland's Treblinka death camp. 
The judges found there was convincing evidence Demjanjuk was a member of the so-called Trawniki unit of Nazi guards that assisted in the killing of Jews. The high court also found he was posted at the Sobibor death camp and two other con­centration camps. 
But the judges recommended against a new trial, saying too much time had lapsed in legal 
proceedings  against  
Demjanjuk.  
Last month, a  three-judge  

Supreme Court panel rejected the request for a new trial, cit­ing weak evidence and the dan­ger of double jeopardy. But the judges permitted the petitioners to appeal again. 
Zuroff, the Nazi hunter, said he and lawyers representing eight Sobibor survivors met with the attorney general Tuesday in an attempt to per­suade him to reverse his posi­tion. 
Zuroff said he brought up in the meeting a July 30 article in the Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth in which the com­mander of Ayalon Prison de­scribed his conversations with Demjanjuk. 
"He told me that he admits that he was a German soldier in Sobibor, but all the time claimed 'I'm not the man the people of Israel are looking for,"' the commander, Benny Farmbuch, was quoted as say­ing. 
The Ukrainian-born Demjanjuk has maintained in court that he spent most of World War II in German POW camps after being captured as a Soviet soldier in May 1942. 
Israeli prosecutors argued that after his capture, Demjanjuk volunteered as a Nazi guard to improve his lot. They submitted documents they say link him to the Trawniki guard unit. 
Prison Services spokesman Dubi Ben-Ami said Thursday he would check whether the com­mander's quote was accurate. 
Zuroff argued that the prison commander should be called as a witness. 
'
LowerYour 
ElectricBills. 
9.99 Great Buy 
Make toast for less bread with the Proctor-Silex wide-slot toaster. 
9.99 Great Buy 
Get a flat rate on the Proctor-Silex steam/dry iron. 
0 ·.·· 
TARGET. 
RIGHT. ON THE MONEY• 

LISBON 
As hundreds of Angolans die every day from war-induced injuries and hunger, the gov­ernment and UNITA rebels have launched military offen­sives that could be the dead­liest in the country's history. 
U.N. officials have estimated as many as 1,000 deaths a day in the southern African nation, most of them from hunger but some as the result of fighting. 
The civil war has turned cities into battlegrounds and graveyards, while unattended famine, cholera and AIDs are becoming as deadly as artillery. 
A May 1991 peace accord ended a 16-year civil war, but fighting flared up in October, a month after UNIT A lost elec­tions that the U.N. deemed free and fair. Some 350,000 Angolans were killed before the peace accord was signed. 
Both President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos and UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi have made it clear that they both seek a final military victory for con­trol over Angola and its esti­mated 10.5 million inhabitants. Both sides are busy fighting for strategic artillery positions before the rainy season begins next month. 
The United Nations has said that after Sept. 15 it will apply sanctions against either side resisting peace efforts. But 
U.N. special envoy Alouine Blondine Beye's efforts to get the sides to negotiate have 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry (219) 291-7153 
Football, JPW, Graduation and other times 
-----~ ----~---~--­
-------·-----------------~---~-------~------~-~-.......-~-------~ 
page 14 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Uttle Professor wins Store of Year Award 
Special to The Observer 
•sOUTH BEND The South Bend Little Professor Book Center was named Store of the Year at the Little Professor Book Center's second annual National Convention in Toledo, Ohio this past August. Little Professor is the nation's largest organiza· tion of independent booksellers, with over 110 locations in 34 states. Chuck and Jane Rogers, owners of the South Bend Little Professor received a number of awards including the Distinguished Achievement Award and the Top 10 Award. These two t\wards are given by the Uttle Professor Book Center home office for the store voted "best in the region" and to the top 10 stores which achieve the highest growth rate in sales. The South Bend store also was also given awards by the local Chamber of Commerce, including the Gold Employment Award for increasing their work force by 50 percent and the Silver Capital Investment Award for investing $100, 000 or more into their local business. "Chuck and Jane continual­ly work to grow and better their operation, " says John Glazer. president of the Little Professor Book Center, Inc. 
UMW president target ofstrong criticism .HUNTINGTON, W.VA. A spokesman for some of the nation's largest coal operators Thursday said United Mine Workers President Richard Trumka has unfairly characterized the progress of contract talks. Trumka on Wednesday accused negotiators for the Bituminous Coal Operators Association of refusing to participate in any real give-and-take during the latest round of contract talks. The strike centers on the union's demand for in· creased job security for its members. 
• ATI.A TA A former banker pleaded guilty to three charges in a. politically charged bank fraud case involv­ing $5.5 billion in illegal loans to Iraq. Christopher Drogoul's admission of guilt Thursday came as a surprise, 11 months after he withdrew another guilty plea in the case and six days before he was to stand trial in U.S. District Court. 
Ci~ne war to affect company earnings 
• EWYORK 
The cigarette price war will reduce 1993 oper­ating earnings at RJR Nabisco Holdings' domes­tic tobacco business by about $900 million, or 43 percent. The estimate Thursday was the first that the parent of the nation's second biggest cigarette company has offered since a price war broke out in April. Since then, major tobacco comapnies have cut the price of a pack of ciga., rettes by as much as 40 cents. 
Dai 
.'
h®kdf'4 I~
6/1193 7/1193 811193 9/1193 10/1193 

BUSINESS 
Friday, September 3, 1993 
lacocca resigns from Chrysler Corporation 
By ALAN ADLER 
AP Auto Writer 
DETROIT 
Lee Iacocca, who led Chrysler Corp.'s early 1980s comeback from the edge of bankruptcy, quit the com­pany's board of directors Thursday in a move that symbolized a changing of the guard at the nation's No. 3 automaker. 
The move surprised some, since Iacocca had fought to chair the board's executive committee as a con­dition of his retirement as chairman, but there was no indication the de­parture was forced. In a prepared statement, lacocca spoke glowingly of the board, the current management and Chrysler's direction. 
"Chrysler is in good hands now and has an outstanding future," Iacocca said. "(Chairman) Bob Eaton heads the best management team in the industry.... I have every confidence in their continued success." 
Iacocca, 68, will continue as a con­sultant earning $500,000 a year through 1994 in exchange for devot­ing up to 50 percent of his time to Chrysler. He is no longer starring in Chrysler's ads. 
Even though he sold 1.2 million shares of Chrysler stock last month 
By MICHELLE MITTELSTADT 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTION 
The Clinton administration mounted an attack Thursday on Ross Perot's new book critical of the proposed North American Free Trade Agreement. 
U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor called a news conference to issue a 73-page rebuttal and said the newly issued book by the 1992 inde­pendent presidential candidate was "riddled with inaccuracies, errors and misleading statements.'' 
"We want to make sure that as we start this critical debate for the coun­try that the facts are clear and straight," Kantor said. 
The charge against Perot, one of the most vocal opponents of NAFTA treaty, comes just weeks before the White House makes its formal sales pitch to a Congress that is sharply divided over the merits of the pact. 
Over a 15-year period, NAFTA would phase out most barriers to the free movement of goods, services and investment between the United States, Mexico and Canada. 
President Clinton is expected to offi­cially present the 2,000-page treaty and accompanying side accords on the environment and labor to law­makers during a speech Sept. 14, con­gressional sources said. 
for $56 million, Iacocca still owns 1.68 million shares and has options to pur­chase another 3 million. 
Ready access to his remaining Chrysler stock may have influenced lacocca's decision to sever ties with the board. 
The government heavily regulates the buying and selling of stock by cor­porate officials because of their inside knowledge of the company's business. 
''I'm sure a part of it is that he could take control of his financial holdings," said Chrysler spokesman Steve Harris. "To this point, he has been treated like other officers of the corporation." 
The announcement of Iacocca's departure was made at a meeting of the Chrysler board in Highland Park, Mich. on Thursday. Iacocca did not attend. Harris said he was out of the country. 
"This is the latest step in a long process," said S.G. Warburg & Co. analyst Dave Healy. "It has been Eaton's show and President Bob Lutz's show for some time now." 
Eaton, the former General Motors Europe executive recruited by lacocca to succeed him, was chosen chairman of the board's executive committee. The group has the power to conduct company business between board 
Administration aims attack towards Perot's anti-NAFTA book 
Congressional hearings on the trade accord, which has been roundly denounced by labor unions and many environmentalists, are planned quick­ly after it is sent to Capitol HilL 
Kantor said he was "a lot more optimistic" about ratification than he was four months ago. "The status quo is unacceptable," he said. 
The administration, which has been accused by Republicans of not push­ing the trade accord hard enough, has turned its attention to rebutting the anti-NAFTA rhetoric. 
"We believe because the book is out there and Mr. Perot has become a leading spokesperson against NAFTA ... that he should have to defend his statements," Kantor said . 
Kantor said Perot's 124-page book, "Save Your Job, Save Our Country: Why NAFTA Must Be Stopped ­Now," contains 193 misleading state­ments. Chief among them. he said, is that 5. 9 million jobs are at risk because of the accord. 
"We believe, and we are confident that this agreement means thousands and thousands of more net jobs to Americans and a growth of our econ­omy," Kantor said. 
Perot didn't immediately provide a response, but spokeswoman Sharon Holman called the administration re­sponse "interesting." 
Executives' confidence in economy drops to lowest level since 1991 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Business executives' confidence in the economy fell in August to the low­est level since just after the recession, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said Thursday. 
Martin Regalia, the group's chief recession ended. 
An index reading of 50 or more indicated moderate economic growth. A reading of 70 or more signals strong growth. 
"In addition to their concern over the economy's failure to generate sig­nificant job growth, businesses are unsure of the administration's eco­nomic plan and are worried about future regulatory and health care costs," Regalia said. 
Of the 8,280 businesses surveyed for the latest index, 13.9 percent said the economy would improve over the next six months, 48.6 percent said it was in decline and 37.5 percent said it would hold its own. 
meetings. 
The board decided not to fill 
lacocca's seat, reducing its ranks to 
13 members. 
In a statement, the board said it would miss lacocca and donated $1 million from the Chrysler Corporation Fund in his name to fund diabetes re­search, which has been one of the for­mer chairman's pet interests. His first wife. Mary. died of complications from the disease in 1983. 
In his statement, lacocca said it was no longer fashionable for former chairmen to serve on the board of the corporations they once Jed. 
"It's been a fantastic ride, but it's time to let the younger people do the driving," Iacocca said. "I said when I left the company last year that I want­ed to do some new and different things with my life and I'm eager to start doing them now.'' 
In recent months, Iacocca has been elected a director of MGM Grand Inc., the hotel and casino operator, and SpaceHab Inc., the maker of a space research center. 
Since his retirement, Iacocca has spent time at his homes near Palm Springs, Calif.. in Aspen, Colo., and in Italy. 
Drogoul found guilty in BNL fraud case 
By MARC RICE 
AP Business Writer 
ATlANTA 
A banker who had claimed he was made a scapegoat for failed U.S. policy in the Middle East pleaded guilty Thursday to making $5.5 billion in unauthorized loans to Iraq.
Christopher Drogoul's plea came just six days before he was to go on federal trial on a 70-count bank fraud indict­ment. His attorneys had subpoenaed former President Bush to testify. 
Last fall, Drogoul pleaded guilty to some of the charges but withdrew the plea during a politically charged sen­tencing hearing. 
Attorney General Janet Reno approved the new deal, Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern said. It includes guilty pleas to one count of wire fraud and two counts of making false statements to bank regu­lators. 
"With these three counts, the gov­ernment achieved the likely prison term which would have been achieved no matter how many counts you took to trial," Stern said. "It would have been pointless to go to triaL" 
Drogoul, who will be sentenced Nov. 29, could receive up to 6 1/2 years in prison. His attorney, Robert Simels, said he would ask U.S. District Judge Ernest Tidwell to limit Drogoul's sen­tence to the 17 months he has already served. 
Simels said Drogoul agreed to the plea "as a result of the urging of his family to terminate the nightmare of this Alice-in-Wonderland setting" and get him out of prison sooner. 
Drogoul, the former Atlanta branch manager for Italy's state-owned Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, was accused of funneling $5.5 billion to Iraq through loans and credit agreements, and hid­ing the deals from BNL officials and 
U.S. regulators. 
Some of the money helped fund Iraq's military before the Persian Gulf War. 
Before withdrawing his plea last year, Drogoul said his actions were approved by BNL headquarters in Rome and that the U.S. government was aware of the deals. 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 3, 1993 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Aecent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters Saint M;uy's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 
Advertising Manager .................... .Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  

631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Colloquy may lead to secularization 
Dear Editor: 
Some of the faculty think the Mission Statement of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 puts too much emphasis on Catholicism. On the contrary, there is practically nothing Catholic in it. The Prenote's exposition of "our own under­standing of what it means to be Catholic" is practically devoid of anything distinctive of Roman Catholicism, which is said to be characterized by "sacramentality, mediation and communion.' This depiction, adopted presumably from Father Richard McBrien's Catholicism, sounds quite plau­sible; but look at the fine print. 
Sacramentality is explained as "encountering God in the whole of creation." This basic religious attitude is in no way proper to Roman Catholicism; it underlies just about every reli­gion that has arisen since the Neanderthals first began putting bouquets of flowers in the tombs of their dead. It suits the vaguest Unitarianism and the narrowest Fundamentalism. It does not even distinguish monotheism from pantheism. 
Roman Catholic sacramentali­ty holds that the seven sacra­ments of the Church are much more than natural symbols and reminders of God. They have been chosen positively by Christ (mediately or immediately), and sanctified to serve as instru­ments, imparting the grace they signify. This is the sacramental­ity that was challenged by the Reformation and sustained by the Council of Trent. By omit­ting it, the Prenote reduces sacramentality to a vague reli­gious insight distinctive of 
DOONESBURY 

nobody. 
Similarly, mediation is explained as God working through "persons, events and material things," or alternative­ly as "an intelligibility and a coherence of all reality, discov­erable through spirit, mind and imagination." I like such a view of reality, but there is nothing in it that a Protestant, a Jew, a Muslim, a Hindu or a Taoist could not equally accept. And the second half is nothing more than a declaration that the uni­verse is susceptible of scientific investigation. This is indeed a presupposition of the university as such, but what does it have to do with Catholicism? 
The mediation characteristic of Catholicism is above all the priestly mediation of Jesus Christ perpetuated in the sacra­ments and in the ordained priesthood. Ukewise the media­tion of Mary and the saints interceding for us wayfarers. But to such things as these, no allusion is made. 
Communion is interpreted as human community, with no ref­erence to grace or the Holy Spirit (the heart of Christian communion) nor to communion with the Holy See, the hallmark of Catholicism. 
Not only does the Prenote expunge every Roman Catholic trait, its three "characteristic" notes retain nothing distinctive­ly Christian. There is no men­tion of faith in Jesus Christ, no allusion to his redemptive death or his life-giving resurrection. 
The Mission Statement is pre­sented as the result of "long hours of debate and compro­mise." Compromise indeed! As Professor George Marsden has shown, this is precisely the kind of stance that facilitated the secularization of Protestant universities during the nine­teenth century. If this is the way "we" understand Catholicism, we have already given up Notre Dame's Catholic identity and have made a mis­sion statement superfluous. 
Edward O'Connor 
Theology Department 
August 30, 1993 

Are you a Gambler? 
The Observer's Viewpoint department seeks columnists, poets and other contributors. 
POBoxQ 
Observer.VIawpolntl @nd.edu 
CORRECTION 
Due to an editing error, The Observer yesterday misrepre­sented the argument of Andrew Feske in a Letter to the Editor. 
In refuting Observer colum­nist Paul Pearson's argument, Feske wrote the following: 
"Because health care is avail­able, and because we can talk about how to put a condom on or whatever, it does not follow that there will not be birth con­trol failure, and unwanted pregnancies ... " 
The Observer regrets the error. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
IA/tu, ITJU5Tsu:MSOV&P05S!­
00 YOU Y&5... NO/ I 
9U3 &XPLANA710N fORUJHY'tW'V&
R£AU.Y THINK /XJNi1</VOW/ 
CHOseN TO 8eAtON&AU7HE3613
ITtua!W8C WHY PO YOU 
Y&AR.S. MAYB8 YOU CAN'T BeAR50 AIAJRJL-7V 7HINK I 
7H& IMPUCA770N5 OF YOUR.
8e 6AY, MARK~ MIGHTet-? 
/ TRLJ& '3l3)(1JAL. ~~~~~ '·~~~~· NA7UR8. 
OH, PL&A5&, I'M TOO 
7HAT'5 FOR 9JRE.
()/,/)TO t:JtAt..IAJITH 
5AY, YOU HAVeN'T
50Mt7HING U/C& THIS! 
EJOUGHT Ya.JR.
IF YOU'!?& RJ(;f{T, IT 
FAL-L-aorH&S
OiAf.K3!35 &Vf:R/THIN6­
Y&T,HAV& YOU?
6VM'ITHIN6! 
'\VJhat is objectionable is 
W not so much that Notre Dame does it, but that it pretends it doesn't. 
Don Yaeger and Douglas Looney in 
Under the Tarnished Dome 

--------------~~--~--------------,---~·­
page 16 Friday, September 3, 1993 
The Observer • ETC. 



FRIDAY 
Events 
Irish Pep Rally, 7 p.m., J.A.C.C. 
"Casablanca," Snite Museum, 7:30p.m. 
"Sommersby," Carroll Hall Saint Mary's, 7 & 9:30 
p.m. 
Music 
Rockfest II featuring campus bands, Fieldhouse Mall, 8:30 p.m. Seamaison, Irish Folk music, Madison Oyster Bar, 10p.m. 
SATURDAY 
Events 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern, kick~off 12:35 p.m. 
"Clifthanger," Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center, 7, 9:30, 12 Free Billiards, Gorch Games Room, 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. Free Video Games, Gorch Games Room, 6 to 7 p.m. First Annual Indiana Brewer's Festival, 3703 Main 
St. Mishawaka, live music, 1 p.m. to 1 a.m., free admission. 
Music 
Future (rock, alternative, reggae), Midway Tavern, 10p.m. Catman and the Allniters (blues), Madison Oyster Bar, 10 p.m. 
SUNDAY 
Events 
Chris Fonseca and Buzz Sutherland, com~dians, 101 DeBartolo, 8 p.m., tickets available at LaFortune Information Desk for $3. 
Kee-Boon~Mein~Kaa Pow Wow, St. Patrick's County Park, hosted by Potawatomi Indians, 10 a.m. 
MOVIES 
University Park East 
Rising Sun 7:15, 9:45 Fortress 7:30, 9:30 Heart and Souls 7:10, 9:20 Jurassic Park 7:10, 9:20 
University Park West 
Hard Target 7:15, 9:30 Much Ado About Nothing 9:10 Surf Ninjas 7:10 Manhattan Murder Mystery 7, 9:20 
"Sergeant Tim McCarthy says... " 
At one point during forth quarter, a silent hush falls over the stadium. Not one voice can be heard, except for that of Sergeant Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police -when he talks, everyone listens. Basically, he does nothing more than remind us that drinking and driving is bad -real­ly bad. But it's the way he tells his listeners that he has earned almost as many fans as the "Fightin' Irish". 
To give just a little taste of what he's about, here's one of his puns that's become a favorite: "Those who have one for the road may have a police­men as a chaser." 
The Lou Chant 
Everyone get ready. It is between the third and the fourth quarter and the first few bars of Beethoven's 1812 Overture resounds throughout the stadium. Students buzz with anticipation as they lift their hands in the air. It's time. 
For many students, this is the most exciting part of the game. As all of the students wave their hands in unison, it forms an unbroken wave that is truly spectacular. The chant "LOU" echoes over the field as arms move in time with the music. The feeling that is created by this ritual is happiness as all students, for once, agree and work together in an effort to create something beautiful. There is great symbolism in the Lou chant, as it becomes a one minute metaphor for the unity that Notre Dame tries to achieve in its "Notre Dame family" statement. The natural high that is experienced in this one brief moment is enough to make any student proud to be a Domer. 


Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • ETC. page 17 

Tailgating Tips 
Notre Dame Saturdays just aren't complete with out the festivity of tailgating preceding kick-off. Generally, alumni, students and other Notre Dame fans begin to tailgate around 10 a.m., but with all the recent change of home games starting at 1:35 p.m., many have moved the time to as early as 8 
a.m. In brief summation, Notre Dame fans eat, drink 
and bond. Essentials in tailgating: T -shirts -There are always nomads wandering 
around selling "unofficial t-shirts". For Northwestern there may not be great ones(plus everyone should be wearing "The Shirt"), but be sure sometime throughout the season to buy at least one "bootlegged" shirt, perhaps from the USC or Florida State games. 
Food and Drinks-The only thing better than sitting around with a crowd of Notre Dame folks, is eating great food with a crowd of Notre Dame folks. Brots and Turtle brownies (brownies swirled in the middle) are a definite favorite as pre-game stomach fillers. And of course, at any tailgater, one is bound to find a cooler full of "bev­erages" to quench the thirst. 
People Passer 
It is the middle orthe second quarter, Notre Dame is up by 20, and nothing very exciting is going on on the field. All_ of a su?den, people start 
The Band
shouting as hands go up m the air. Is It the wave? Salute to Lou? No, it's the People Passer. 
Every Saturday around noon The Notre Da_me Ma:c~ing
Passing people up the bleachers during the 
Band performs a show at the Administration bmldmg.
games has an interesting set of rules. 
They toot and they beat. 
Number one: Find the largest person in the And as if that weren't enough, the band also marchesstands and attempt to hoist him or her towards from the stairs of the Dome, playing throughout the cam­the innocent looking, unaware group of girls who pus and heads into the stadium bellowing the fight song. 
all together barely weigh 200 pounds. Tha~ way, M'any alumni, students and various observers follow thethe person who is being carried ends up fallmg on band to the game as they play "our song". 
the benches causing a domino effect that knocks people down for the next ten rows. 
Number two: Grab the lightest person in the sta­dium and against her will, (it usually is a female student) practically throw her all the way to the top of the stadium so she almost gets tossed over the side. Then let her down, and she has to fight her way back to her seat and ends up missing the 1:1... k. ~· LO""'""" 
next two Notre Dame touchdowns. LJ ;l""'ti • """
00 
No matter how frightening this experience may t---..lL..;;•••••••••••~--..J
be, however, it is just one of the things that has snuck its way into the tradition of Notre Dame football. 
Candlelight dinner 
The game is finally over, and Notre Dame has just crushed another team, sending them home bruised, broken and crying. Fans slowly leave the stadium with aching feet, stinging sunburns (or frozen noses depending on the season) and most of all empty stomachs. 
The overpriced, shrunken pressed meat in a day old bun which the stadium calls hot dogs didn't quite hit the spot, and the bratwurst that was eaten at 9:00 a.m. has long since ceased to exist. 
As tired students make their way to the dining halls, they are in for quite a treat, because on this Saturday (and every other home football Saturdays like it) the people at Notre Dame Food Services have pulled out all of the stops. 
The first thing a person notices upon entering the dining hall is the absence of the food from behind their usual coun­ters. As puzzled students make their way further inside with empty tray in hand, they are greeted with a blinding display of elegance and beauty. 
Upon each table is neatly laid a table­cloth, and in the center, on top of a col­ored placemat, is a candle. To further this ambiance, the lights are dimmed, and the food is set up buffet style so the 
• students can serve themselves without having to explain what the word "more" means.t Friendly chatter abounds as students hold their plates two inches from their face so that they can see exactly what they are eating, while some decide _to make creative wax figures and toy With burning down the entire building. 
The best part of the meal, however, the the wide array of deserts. They range from chocolate cake with creamy white icing to fruity jelly rolls. With the new changes in the dining halls, one can only speculate as to what surprises Food Services have in store for the students this year, but whatever they decide to do, it is likely that they will continue in the style of the lovely candlelight dinn~rs which have become synonomous with football Saturdays. 
. .. -­
.
. 
Compiled by Elisabeth Heard and Kenya Johnson Illustrations by Garret Gray 
page 18 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 3, 1993 
Thoughts, reflecti~ns, and imagination ofa Lonely God 
When Almighty God created heaven and earth, so I have read, He began by taking a deep breath the size of a circus tent. When He exhaled, doubtlessly the galaxies and solar systems, the dry land and the oceans came into existence then and there, though it would be guess-work to say so. 
By the time He had finished adding glory unto glory in a furious six-day work-week, He was pleased with the mas­terpiece which He called His world. Creatures could tell that He was deeply in love with them from th' ways He blessed them with gifts great and beau­tiful, but since He stayed hid­den from their sight, He remained distant as their prayer partner. 
Still, reasoning with His help from the known to the unknown, mystics have figured out He has 999 ineffable names, and wears a thousand masks, as Lord of this world. 
Does our Friend and Helper have a name or mask identi­fying Him as "the Lonely God," which is plain as any name can be? "The Lonely God" is a street name, really and it says 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers lo a Bone.(y 9od 

He is no stranger to the human condition in dire need of inti­macy. 
Is it heresy to imagine that God can be lonely; that the Church is His Lonely Kingdom; and that Notre Dame, like the Unreal City of the Wasteland, is one of the Lonely God's outpost of empire? Isn't loneliness a sign of the. depth of His caring as He waits for the sinner to come home? Our hearts are restless, as the saints have noted, and will be restless until they rest in Jesus. 
Organized religion has as its prayer: "Come, Lord Jesus!" On this note of expectancy, the New Testament ends. Hope, long deferred, can make a stone of the heart. Organized religion with its shadows and symbols has trouble providing a foretaste of the peace that will fill the soul once we're in heav­en seeing God face to face. 
In the evening of life, so the great saints say, Christians will be judged on love. If this soul of mine is remembered, after sick­ness or old age has blown the body's candles out, I pray that it will be remembered as God's partner in a love story. At the twilight on the Judgement Day, you'll be able to tell the goats taking the low road to the bad­lands their sullen, selfish look. The sheep on the high road will have fleece that glows from being stroked by the lamb. As the poet said, "Lovers alone wear sunlight." 
I'm no great shakes as a lover; yet I've dragged parents, kicking and screaming, into lov­ing their own. Some of those parents would never have met their own grandchildren, if they'd been allowed to call the plays. The grandchild they came to dote on could have been raised by strangers. 
I wonder if any of those par­ents who opposed marriages I performed ever found out I did them a favor as an interfering priest who helped young lovers stay true to each other? 
Why should I waste your time with this mythology of the Lonely God which I have pri­vately stocked? Maybe, like James Joyce, I'm trying. to forge in the smithy of my soul the .uncreated conscience of my race. It would be closer to the truth to say that I'm offering the young Christian enough leg room so that he/she can think as a maverick. 
Even Christians must get the blues from standing up for Jesus as though there were no tomorrow. We're part of the greatest love story ever told, and so we're indisposed to believe that for years at a time our great faith commitment leaves us feeling out on a limb. 
The Mass we should love can 
be numbing and boring. The 
Crucified Jesus feels like an 
alien from outer space, less 
appealing to know than E.T., 
the EXTRATERRESTRIAL. We 
would be more grateful for a 
trip to Graceland than for four years at Catholic Notre Dame. 
We came to this great stage of fools feeling alienated and lone­ly. The Church offers us grace as a cure for what ails us; but grace, we decide after giving it a fling, is hair from the dog that bit us , and the state of grace doesn't solve anything if you're terminally lonely. 
The trick could be to pay more attention to the experi­ence of being lonely. You might be surprised who you fmd wait­ing for you in that no-man's­land, because that's the place you can be alone with the Alone. I've been writing about this for 25 years. You may tell me, "Terence, this is stupid stuff... for Malt does more than Milton can/To justify God's ways to man." 
Anyway, as dumb as this col­umn may sound, it may put you in the picture as to why I bother writing letters to the Lonely God week after week. I want you to meet Him. The liturgy is not to apt to introduce you to the loneliness of God. Preaching tends to short-change the God­Man at the point where He's most human. 
-
-
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Beginning Again 
A well~tenured professor friend of mine told me the other day how nervous he gets every year preparing to teach his first class. Earlier the same day, a group of freshmen had told me of the anxieties they feel as they search for buildings and classrooms they need, while trying not to appear overly lost. 
I watched a whole crowd of women walking home late the other night, presumably to Saint Mary's, with their T~shirts full of names and telephone numbers gathered from the Orientation Graffiti Dance. It made me think of how frightening it can be to open up to all new relationships, to trust a group of strangers with your needs and hopes, to call someone on the phone and ask for a nearly~blind date. 
Transfer students sometimes have a particular struggle getting into the flow of Notre Dame life. Students returning from semesters and years abroad often find the return to campus life here awkward and constraining. New rectors wonder how to set up their voice mail. New teachers wonder how to meet the media deadlines in DeBartolo. 
Everybody's got problems, I guess. 
In the meantime the first home football game is this weekend and here we go... 
Happily, our "system" provides a lot of places where people can get help with transitions. Freshmen and their parents go through several days of speeches and good advice trying to make them feel welcome. Transfer students have Mass and lunch together and more welcomes. New teachers meet together with administrators and learn about the Notre Dame way of doing things. New rectors have a mentor who helps them find the fuse box. 
The Counselling Center has a well~trained staff, ready to help with individual and group meetings for those who feel victimized by stress or loneliness. Campus Ministry maintains offices in the Library, on the ground floor of Badin Hall, and in the Community Center of Fischer Graduate Residences where our staff is happy to meet students, faculty, and staff and talk about nearly anything, but particularly the struggle for faith and deepening spiritual life. 
People at Notre Dame can often have extremely high expectations of themselves and of those around them. Most people want to make good grades; many know their future depends upon it. Most people want to have fun; many know their sanity depends upon it. Most people want to make good friends; many find the friends of a lifetime. Most people expect to succeed in their goals; many find surprising challenge in some unexpected defeat. 
A teacher of mine used to say that if you want to hold a very large package then it takes a while to get your arms around it. What I think J he meant was that people with a wide range of high expectations had better learn patience and pacing in their life, or they'll drive themselves crazy always falling short of their desires. 
Welcome to the newest members of the Notre Dame community. Thank you for bringing your talents and energies to share in our midst. If you think you're nervous and a little "out of it," join the club. So are some of our greatest scholars. If you think we will be impressed with your talents and victories, you're right, we will. But also know that we will be even more impressed, and just as anxious to share with you, in the honest ways you handle your fears and your defeats. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
COMMUNITIES ND -FALL KICK ..QFF Sunday, September 12, 11:30 am LaFortune Ballroom 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. September 4 5:00p.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Sun. September 5 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Ezekiel 33: 7,9  
2ND READING  Romans 13: 8,10  
GosPEL  Matthew 18: 15,20  

~ --------~--~..----~-----------------. 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 19 
The Observer accepts classified. every business day &om 10 a.m. 10 3:30 p.m. a1 !he Nom Dame office, 314 LaFonune and &om 12 p.m. 10 3 r,.m. •• 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for nex1-day classified. is 3p.m. All clasSified. mus1 be P"'paid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per charac1er per day, including all spaces. 
Roomate needed at Turtle Creek. VCR RENTALS: Rent a VCR, two ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY I NEED TICKETS FOR Need 1 MSU stud or GA Gina4-2372 semesters $99.95 delivered. HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL NORTHWESTERN call Kavita x4520 NOTICES ] Collegiate Rentals, 272·5959 JANE AT 1·800-264·3278. Call1603 
HELP I OUR NO BABYSITTER OF ask for Mark Rooms available for Sept 3&4 NO FOOTBALL PARKING. Logan 4 YEARS GRADUATED. LOOKING '85 Volkswagen Golf. 5-door, five 3 minute walk to stadium Center, non-profit organization is FOR UPBEAT, FRIENDLY speed, well maintained, not per· I have TWO Northwestern tix, will I need MSU or Pitt tix. Please call 2 minute walk to Linebacker offering reserved parking near stadi­FEMALE TO SIT FOR 2 KIDS AT feet. Retail book $1825, wholesale trade for Pin or BC tix· Bryan 1190 Kevin at X4469. Full house privileges, BBQ um for all home games. Call LEAST ONCE A WEEK SO WE bk $1175. As is $1000 or $1250 $50/person/night or group rates (219)289-4831, 9 to 2, M-F. CAN GO OUT. CAR NEEDED. fixed. Inquire 289·5979 Tickets avaliable 
CALL ELLI 2B9-3536. WANTED STUDENT TIX NEEDTIX\1 Contact Gord days 631-4026 Brother dedicated wordprosser WP· $1477$ 4 MICH. STATE GA's nights 271·84B3 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
7-Eieven Corner of Ironwood & 2200 like new. Perfect for all but CALL Merrie X4544 
Edison now taking applications for computer students. 20 line CAT, WANTED FSU & USC Gas Need a stud. ticket for both the LOST -Black framed glasses. full time and part-time work. All adjustable brightness. Daisy-wheel will beat any price HAVE 2 NW and 2 FSU GAs Mich. game and the Pitt. game. Please call Nic at 1441 IMPOR­shifts available, please apply at the printer, floppy drive; has spellcheck, 288·5282 MUST SELL BY FRI. Please call257·9752 and ask for T ANTI store spreadsheet, typer-writer mode. X 1351 Mary. Thanks. 
$500 new, $275. EPIIoudspeakers, NORTHWESTERN tor sale call anytime Lost: Student Football tix WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE 70 lb cabinets, great bass $200. 2323736 $$ HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S $$ Row 43, Sec 30 LOOKING FOR MODELS TO Propane grill with stove burner, nice NEED A SET OF STUDENT TICK· PARENTS PAYING BIG MONEY x1723 POSE FOR POSTEAS-N-CALEN· $100. Inquire 289-5979 NORTHWESTERN stud. tick. avail. ETS. CALL 634·2763. NATALIE 273..()520 
DAAS.THOSEINTERESTED 273·5909 Pete. ASK FOR PETE 
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN '91 CAMARO AS, blue w/silver strip MY RED-PURPLE SPECIALIZED 52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE on side, T·top, fancy wheels, power Help! Need 2 Ga's for PITT, BC, or STUD TIX-BOOK 4 SALE. BADLY NEED BYU GA'S AND 1 HARD ROCK MOUNTAIN BIKE 10AM·6PM MON-FRI windows,locks, ale, wide tires, less USC. call x4-3650 TOM@254-9068, 6·8PM OR LEV MSU GA. ASK FOR JOHN X4618. WAS STOLEN OUT OF than 7000 miles. Never driven in MES. CAVANAUGH LATE MONDAY Babysitter Needed: Various week­winter or bad weather. 259-3953 NEED MSU GA'S CALL MATT 4 NW tix avail for trade for MSU or NIGHT. CALL TIM AT 1470 IF days call if interested: 255·9094 after4 pm. X1524 USC tix Matt 312·283·0345 YOU KNOW ANYTHING. Need 1 N'wstrn GA 
Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger, SOCCER CLEATS NEW ADIDAS X 1564 Need 2 student books and 2 U of M IN, hiring for: servers, bartenders, COPA MUNDIAL SIZE 12$50 Will trade 2 GA NW, MSU, Pitt or GA's. Call Dave collect after 7pm. 
WANTED 
line cook. Exp. pref. but not nee. for CALL MATT X1524 USC for 2 GA FSU or BC. Tracey or 313-9B1·0238 
info call272-7017 Nick 631·7733 NORTHWESTERN-STUD. TICKET Part time child care person needed 273-5989 WANTED: NO vs. U. Michigan immediately .20-25 hours per week. Babysitter with experience, trans· '91 CAMARO AS Blue w/ Silver Married Student Tix 4 sale 277-Tickets. Please call Kate evening Call271-1638. portation and references needed Strip on side, T-Top, Fancy Wheels, 9074. WILL TRADE FOUR MSU TICK· @ (201)B22-B945 (collect OK). 
part-time days and evening in ND Power Window & locks, ETS FOR TWO USC TICKETS. MODELS WANTED for suggestive professor home. Please call 232· AIC, Wide tires. Less than 7000 $ $ $ $ $ CALL CONNIE (708) 665-1B27. Married Student Tix 4 Sale 277• but tasteful photos in various attire. 2201. miles. Never driven in winter or bad NEED MSU TIX CALL AVELINO 93B95-9 pm call273-7074 after 5 for info. weather. Ph 259-3953 after X4212 WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM
( TRAVEL FREE! CANCUN, 4PM $ $ $ NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU MAKE $1,000111 JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADRE! (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill ALUMNI (HOLY CROSS HOGS) SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK 2 Story Colonial next to Donmoyer. 70B·843·6947. (616) 329·2906 Kalamazoo NEED A 2+ BEDROOM APART­PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­Kevin Zeisz 272·5444 
FOR SALE 
MENT FOR LAST 5 HOME FOOT­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH HELP-there is a large posse coming NEED 2 MSU, USC, Or FSU TIX BALL WEEKENDS. YOU JUST TOURS 1-B00-426-7710 Four N'Western tix: 20 yd. line. from UF to see FSU lose and i need x3402 SLEEP SOMEWHERE ELSE TO carpeting, brand new, bound All together. Best offer at 291-6216 to get them tickets $$$ EARN DRINKING MONEY. SECU­11x12, dark pink $90 Ask for Bill. Call Tomas at x3695 I have 2 Boston College tickets 
FOR RENT
RITY DEPOSIT PAID IN call BrianT. 289·6648 (Nov. 20) which I will trade for 2 ADVANCE. CALL (612) 332-1443 NEED 4 N'WEST GA'S CALL TOM Florida State tickets. Please call AND LEAVE NUMBER. WE'LL FURNISHED ROOM FOR RENT. @271-290B Selling 2 entire sets of Married Nick at 312·222·6464 CALLBACK. $150/MO. 287·2159. Student TX: Call Thr F, after 6pm 
FOR SALE • Refrigerator· $50 .like NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR 273·8938. Need Pitt tix. Call Sam x1695 EXTERIOR PAINTERS NEARND· new (small). Smith Corona EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR Experienced Student Painters need­SAFE, AFFORDABLE, FUR­portable electric typewriter • $40 11120 BC CALL MARK CAT Desperately Wanted: One ticket to Student tix for sale, call 272·5842 ed to paint South Bend area homes. NISHED APTS. 284·5027 1 BOO 543 0357 the Michigan State game. Will pay a Full or Part Time. 1 BDRM. • $240, lot! Please call Bridget at 4015 as AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 755 SOUTH BEND AVE. 19B6 RENAULT ALLIANCE, 4· soon as possible if you have one Have Northwestern GA's & Stud. 1-800-626-6267. 2 BDRM. -$280, DOOR, AUTO, AIR, AM-FM CAS­WANTED TWO GA OR MARRIED you don't need! will trade for any other game or sell. "painting America's homes coast to 519 CORBY SETTE, NEW FRONT TIRES, 71 K STUDENT TICKET TO ANY HOME Kyle 232·3736 coast" DEP. REQ'D. MILES. GOOD CONDITION. GAMES. JOHN BOO 25B·6524 I h!)ve 4 Fla. St. G.A.'s 
1-B00-582·9320. $2000. 2B7·5235 AFTER 5 PM. EXT1152 Best offer NEED 4 PITT TIX; HAVE NW, 
LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER­Ask 4 Jason x1300 MSU, USC, BC TIX; WILL TRADE; VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS, 6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS, 'BS T·BIRD, 55,000 MILES, $1B50 CALL (201)487·9000 PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO. OR MAKE OFFER. I need 1 student or GA tix for MSU. RESPONSIBLE, MATURE AND PEA PERSON. K·SIZE WATERBED W/HEAD­Will trade or buy 273-417B NEED 2 GA'S FOR NORTHWEST· NON-SMOKER AND LIKE 2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. BOARD AND HEATER, $85. Have 2 tix for mich. away ERN. TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO­1 BEDROOM, $225 MO. 100-WATT SANYO COMPONENT BIG BUCKS! NO STUD TIX BOOK and 2 g.A.'s for Fla. St. DESI4·1786. TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT. ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­STEREO, $225. NEEDED CALL PAT@ 273·4B67 x1303, Man 778-2515. PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE. ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER, $35. WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. 
272·6306. ANTIQUE IRON TWIN BED, $40. NEED ALL TICKETS 271·8641 1 Northwestern Stud. Ticket 272·7233. FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! 287·3533. KEVIN for sale. Call x4966. EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING WEEKENDS • RIVERFRONT NEW Season grad. stud. tick. for sale. BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY B HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101. Washer & dryer: full-size Kenmore, WANTED: SEASON TICKETS. $130 o.b.o, call277.4597 after TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & white, good condition: 3-cycle wash­I HAVE 2 LENNY KRAVITZ TICK· 272-7233. 6p.m. or leave message. PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY er, electric dryer. Ready to go. $200 ETS FOR PINE KNOB ON SATUR· ) JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-B00-219-291·7153 each or $300 for both. Jeff 2BB-DAY, SEPTEMBER 11. (IN THE FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 678-63B6! 3878 after 6 pm. EVENING ·AFTER THE MICHl· 277·1659. 4Northwestem G.A. tickets for sale. 
GAN GAME!) I WANT TO TRADE b.o. call Danielle at X1312 
$$$$ Furnished house, Roseland, 3·4 FOR MICHIGAN TICKETS NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITTSBURGH Looking for a 1993 NO football sea· Bedroom. Good neighborhood PORTABLE CD PLAYER, DEN­(PREFERABLY) OR $$$. CALL GAME. CALL CARRIE AT 634· son ticket bookletllll 277-30.97 NON DCP-30 8x OVERSAMPLING JEN AT X130B ·SOON!! 4416. thanksll call 284·5115 WITH ACCESSORIES. $160. 
$$$$ MARTY 4·4461. 3 NORTHWESTERN G.A.'S NEED· Have 2 GA's for Northwestern. Student Ticket Book For Salel Rooms available for the Notre EDIIIIIIIIII CALL JULIE AT 2784. Best Offer Call Kevin at x1663 Dame/Northwestern Football 277·5612
TICKETS
We Here at Studio--6 are looking Weekend. Buffet Breakfast and I have 2 NW GA's Have GA's to all Home Games & for models to pose for posters-n-eal­Tailgate Party. Jamison Inn 1404 N. will sell or tradell call Paul I NEED 3 PITT GAS Mich. Call232·7316 from 7·8 p.m. enders those interested call us at Ivy Road, 219-277-9682 SENIOR STUD TIX BOOK 4 SALE at 273·5972 I HAVE AJOB. I HAVE$ 271-1371 or come in at 52029 U.S. NEED, MONEY WANT 2 SELL CALL 212-9B6·9B66 31 N. Hours are 10 a.m.· 6 p.m. BED AND BREAKFAST in private NOW. ASK FOR BOB GLINES 
PERSONAL
Mon-Fri home. 2 twins, single w/ separate 634-4694 Need: stu. tix Leave name & ph. bath-10 min from campus. ASK FOR DAINA no. 233-1463. Reasonable 234-2626 
PART·TIME SITTER Need reliable, I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653 $5.50 HAIRCUTS 
...... 
qualified, compassionate person to STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE NW stud tic 4 sale babysit in our home for 8mo. Mon· Bachelor Apartment for Rent. 7 634·4586 Marc x4B30 or x4832 VITO'S BARBER SHOP Wed·Fri please call273-9512. min. from campus in a safe neigh· 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
borhood. 233-7631 I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL Need Pitt GA's· call ext 3756, katie 233-4767 Newspaper carriers and branch TIXS.272·6306 SELLING BOOKLETS AND managers needed for Notre Dame Need 1 Northwestern GA BOSTON COLL GA'S. LUIS 273· IRISH MUSIC For NOTRE DAME and St. Mary's campus. For Sale call Damien x1961 1528 FANS ONLYIII FRIDAY NIGHT Call immediately for available posi· NEED 2 FSU TICKETS The Madison Oyster Bar lions: 232·3205 PANASONIC KX·P1123 PAINTER HELP! • ND/FSU MARRIAGE For Sale: 1 stud. ticket for FSU. SEAMAISIN 
High quality print ·like new, $125 (904) 398-6146. Make best offer of multiple tix or $. Call Tom (evenings) 277·2676 4-4310 NEED ONE FSU • WILL TRADE 
LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE MSU & CASH. CALL COLLECT & HONEST YOUNG LADY TO 2 BIKES. COUCH & CHAIR.272· $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Will give first-born son for four USC (314)962-4876. SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE. 6306 NEED 2 FSU TICKETS tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. HOURS FLEXIBLE, PAEFERABLY (904) 398·6146 at 273·0620. STUD TIX BOOK 4 SALE DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN COLOR TV RENTALS: 19", two $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 634-4451 MIKE Thank you St. Jude for prayers NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL semesters, $99.95 delivered. 13", Desperately seeking tickets for answered. P.S. 273-4BBB FOR MORE INFORMA· two semesters, $69.95 delivered. $$1 Need NW Tix$$ Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call SELL GA & Married STu FootBall TION. IMMEDIATE START. Collegiate Rentals, 272·5959. Call Man at 1060 Rich 277·4769 tix Sets. 272-7034 aft 6 pm. 
Place a Clasified in The Observer office, 314 Lafortune, during normal business hours, 8 a.m. -3 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Note: "We have had recent computer problems at The Observer. Ifyour ad does not appear, come by the office for a refund 
..•.•• -••..• ~ r •• -•••.•••.••• -•• --------..•.•... -....•.•...........····•··.•... -.• --......................... . 
'I 
-.-~----~------~-~--­
....-------..-----~.~-­
page 20 Friday, September 3, 1993 
SCOREBOARD 
TRANSACTIONS  BASEBALL  GOLF  
BASEBALL Amerlc•n Le•gue BOSTON RED SOX~elled up Scott Taylor, pllcher, from Pawtuckel of the lnternalional league. MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Traded larry Sheets, flrst baseman, to the Seattle Mariners for a player to be named later. SEATTLE MARINERS-Moved Edgar Martinez, third baseman, from the 15-to the 60-day disabled list. Purchased the contract ol Kevin King, pitcher, from Jacksonville of the Southern League. Designated Zak Shinall, pltcher, for reassignment. National League COLORADO ROCKIES-Recalled Jay Gainer, Pedro Castellano and Jim Tatum, Infielders, and Jayhawk Owens and E1ic Wedge, catchers, from Colorado Springs of the Pacific Coast League. FLORIDA MARLINS-Recalled John Johnstone, pitcher, from Edmonton of the Pacltic Coaal League. California Lugue RANCHO CUCAMONGA QUAKES-Promoted Wayne Hodes, director of operations, to vice president of operations. BASKETBALL National a..ketball A..oclatlon NBA-Named Ten Washington manager of media relations. NEW JERSEY NETS-Announced the retirement o1 Bernard King, forward. FOOTBALL National Football L..gue NFL-Named John Flood president of NFL Properties. CLEVELAND BROWNS-Re-signed Todd Phllcox, quarterback. Waived Rich McKenzie, llnabackeT. Placed Richard Brown, linebacker, on Injured reserve. Waived Tlm Watson, safety, off the reserve, non-football Injury list. HOUSTON OILER~Ialmed Sfen Thomas, offensive lineman, and Keith McCants, linebacker­defensive end, off walvl!fs from the Atlanta Falcons and New England Patriots, respectively. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Claimed Mike Arthur, center, off waivers from the Cincinnati Bengala. Waived Robert Staten, running back. TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Placed Tony Covington, defenalve back, on Injured reserve. Re· signed Jerry Gray, defensive back. Continental Football League HAMILTON TIGER-CATS-Signed Bill Henry, offensive lineman. HOCKEY National Hockey League DALLAS STAR5-Announced the retirement of Stewart Gavin, left wing, and named him pro scout. DETROIT REO WINGS-Signed Bob Halkldls, defenaeman. MONTREAL CANADIENS-Named Carol Vednals professional scout. NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Ken Hodge, cenll!f. E..t Co..t Hockey League GREENSBORO MONARCHS-Acquired Trevor Senn, right wing, from the Wheeling Thunderblrds for Darryl Noren, center. International Hockey League MILWAUKEE AOMIRAL5-Agreed to terms with Steve Tuttle, right wing. SALT LAKE GOLDEN EAGLES-Signed Perry Anderson, lett wing, to a two-year contract.  NATIONAL LEAGUE E..t Dlvlalon w L Pet. Philadelphia 83 50 .624 Montreal 74 60 . 552 91/2 St. Louis 73 60 .549 10 Chicago 64 70 .478 191/2 Pittsburgh 63 71 .470 20 1/2 Florida 56 77 .421 27 New York 47 87 .351 361/2 Weot Dlvlalon w L Pet. San Francisco 86 4 7 ,647 Atlanta 83 51 .619 3 1/2 Houston 70 63 .526 16 Los Angeles 67 65 .508 181/2 Cincinnati 66 69 .489 21 Sen Diego 53 81 .396 33 1/2 Colorado 50 84 .373 361/2 Thureday'a Gamee Florida 8, San Diego 2 Los Angeles 4, Pittsburgh 0 Atlanta 5, San Francisco 3 New York 8, Chicago 3 Only games scheduled Frlday'a Gamee New York (Tanana 6·13) at Chicago (Hibbard 10· 11), 3:20p.m. Los Angeles (R.Martinez 9·9) at Florida (Hemmonc 1 0·9), 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia (Greene 12·3) at Cincinnati (Ayala 5· 6), 7:35p.m. San Diego (Ashby 2·8) at Alianta (Giavlne 16·5), 7:40p.m. Sen Francisco (Torres 1·0) at St. Louis (Watson 6· 2), 8:05 p.m. Montreal (Rueter 5-0) at Houston (Kile 14·5), 8:05 p.m. Pittsburgh (Hope 0·1) at Colorado (Reynoso 9-9), 9:05p.m. Saturd•y'a Gamea New York at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. Los Angeles at Florida, 7:05 p.m. Philadelphia at Cincinnati, 7:05 p.m. San Diego at Atlanta, 7:10p.m. San Francisco at St. Louis, 6:05p.m. Montreal at Houston, 6:05 p.m. Pittsburgh at Coloredo, 9:05 p.m. Sunday'• Game• San Diego at Atlanta, 1:10 p.m. Los Angeles at Florida, 1 :35 p.m. San Francisco at St. Louis, 2:15 p.m. Philadelphia at Cincinnati, 2:15p.m. New York at Chicago, 2:20p.m. Montreal at Houston, 2:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at Coloredo, 3:05p.m. TENNIS Slnglea First Round Jakob Hlasek, Switzerland, del. Mark Woodford&, Australia, 6·1, 6·2, 4-6, 6·2. Soria Becker (4), Germany, del. Andrei Cherkasov, Russia, 3-6, 6·7 (10·8), 7-5, 6·4, 6·4. Second Round Arnaud Boetsch, France, del. Cari-Uwe Steeb, GermBfly, 6·4, 6·4, 1-0, retired. Amos Mansdorl, Israel, def. Jones Bjorliman, Sweden, 6·3, 6-3, 7·5.  Bernd Karbacher, Germany, del. Nicklas Kultl, Sweden, 6·3, 6·0, 6·2. Wayne Ferreira, South Africa, def. Martin Damm, Czech Republic, 6-4, 6·4, 5·7, 3-6, 6-3 . Chuck Adams, Pacific Palisades, Calif., del. Jonas Svensson, Sweden, 1·6, 6-0, 6·2, 6·1. Thomas Enqvist, Sweden, del. Len Bale, South Africa, 6·2, 4-6, 6·3, 6·3. Karel Novacek, Czech Republic, del. Stefan Edberg (3), Sweden, 7-6 (7·3), 6·4, 4-6, 6-4. Patrick McEnroe, Cove Neck, N.Y., del. Paul Haarhuls, Netherlands, 6·4, 6·3, 6·7 (7·5), 6·3. Byron Black, Zimbabwe, del. Shuzo Matsuoka, Japan, 3-6, 6-2, 7·5, 7·6 (7·5). Henrlk Holm, Sweden, def. Jan Siemerink, Netherlands, 3·6, 6·3, 6-4, 6·4. Brad Gilbert, Oakland, del. Dimitri Poliakov, Russia, 6·3, 2·6, 6-2, 6-4. Doubles Firat Round Mark Kell, Tampa, Fie., and Stefan Kruger, South Africa, del. Oanie Visser, South Africa, and Laurie Warder, Australia (11), 6-4, 7·6 (7·3). Matt Lucena, Chico, Calif., and Brian MacPhie, San Jose, Calif., del. Kent Kinnear, Greenwood, Ind., and Sven Salumaa, Bloomington, Ind., 7·6 (7·5), 7-6 (7·3). Sebastian Lareau, Canada, and Leander Paes, India, del. Eric Lin, Anaheim, Calif.. and Glenn Weiner, Cypress, Calif., 6·4, 6-2. Bryan Shelton, Atlanta, end Todd Witsken, Carmel, Ind., del. Shelby Cannon and Scott Melville, Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. (14), 6·4, 6·4. Todd Woodbridge and Mark Woodforde, Australia (1 ), del. Olivier Oeleltre and Jean· Philippa Fleurlan·, France, 6-3, 6·3. Goran lvanlsevic, Croatia, and Marc Rosset, Switzerland, del. Ivan Beron, Plantation, Fla., and Michael Joyce, Los Angeles, 6-4, 6·2. Second Round Doug Flach, St. Louis, and David· Witt, Jacksonville, Fla., del. Luke and Murphy Jensen, Ludington, Mich. (7), 6·4, 7 ·5. Diego Narglso, Italy, and Javier Sanchez, Spain, del. Henrlk Jan Davids, Netherlands, and Piet Norvel, South Africa (16), 6·4, 7-6 (11·9). Women Slnglea Second Round Barbara Rittner, Germany, del. Sandr~ Cecchini, Italy, 6·1, 6-2. Natalia Zvereva, Belarus, del. Lisa Raymond, Wayne, Pa., 6·4, 6·1. Karina Habsudova, Slovakia, del. Dominique Monaml, Belgium, 6·3, 6·4. Kimberly Po, Rolling Hills, Calif., del. Sandra Caclc, Bradenton, Fla., 6·3, 6·2. Marla Jose Galdano, Argentina, del. Emanuele Zardo, Switzerland, 6·4, 6·1. Katerlna Maleeva, Bulgaria, del. Leila Meskhl, Georgia, 6·1, 6·2. Nathalie Tauzlal (14), France, del. Kristie Boogert, Netherlands, 6·1 , 6·4. Chanda Rubin, Lafayette, La., del, Elena Ukhovtseva, Kazakhstan, 6·4, 6·3. Glgl Fernandez, Aspen, Colo., del. Lori McNeil, Houston, 6-2, 6-3. Christina Singer, Germany, del. Melke Babel, Germany, 7·6 (7·4), 6·2. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (2), Spain, del. Linda Harvey-Wild, Hawthorn Woods, Ill., 6·2, 6·2.  Doublea Firat Round Jill Hetherington, Canada, and Kathy Rinaldi, Amelia Island, Fla. (7), del. Laura Gildemeister, Peru, end Heather Ludloff, Santa Rosa, Calif., 6·3, 6·3. Michelle Jaggerd-Lel, Australia, and Rene Simpson-Alter, Canada, del. Laura Golarsa, Italy, and Catherine Suire, France, 7-5, 7-6 (7-5). Patty Fendlck, Sacramento, Calif., and Meredith McGrath, Midland, Mich. (11), del. Julie Halard, France, and Anke Huber, Germany, 6-1, 6· 7 (7·5), 7·5. Amy Frazier, Rochester Hills, Mich., and Rika Hiraki, Japan, del. Isabelle Demongeot, France, and Robin White, Del Mar, Calif., 5·7, 6·3, 7·6 (7·5j . Yayuk Besukl, Indonesia, and Nana Miyagl, Japan, del. Ann Grossman, Wesley Chapel, Fla., and Patricia Hy, Canada, 6·1, 7·5. Cammy MacGregor, La Quinta, Calif., and Sheun Stafford, Gainesville, Fla., del. Maria Lindstrom and Maria Strandlund, Sweden, 6·2, 6· 4, Pam Shriver, Baltimore, and Elizabeth Smylie, Australia (5), del. Pascale Paradis·Mangon and Sandrlne Testud, France, 6·1, 6·1. Sandra Cecchini, Italy, and Patricia Tarabinl, Algentina (10), del. Undsay Davenport, Murrieta, Calif., and Marianne Werdel, Palo Alto, Calif., 6·4, 6·4. Katrina Adams, Houston, and Manon Boliegral, Netherlands (8), del. Alexandra Fusai, France, and Maria Jose Gaidano, Argentina, 6-4, 7·6 (7·3). Klmlko Date, Japan, and Radke Zrubakova, Czech Republic, del. Ruxandra Oragomlr, Romania, and Janette Husarova, Slovakia, 5-7, 7·6 (7·3), 6·1. Kalerlna Meleeva, Bulgaria, and Nathalie Tauziat, France, del. Cristina Moros, Sarasota. Fla., and Stephanie Nickitas, Tempe, Fla.. 6·4, 6-3. Eugenia Manlokova, Russia, and Leila Meskhl, Georgia (13), del. Rosalyn Nideffer, San Diego, and Chanda Rubin, Lafayette, La., 6·3, 1·6, 6·2. Jo Durie, Britain, and Ginger Helgeson, Alpine, Calli., del. Yone Kamio and Kyoko Nagatsuka, Japan, 7-6 (7·3), 3·6, 6·2. Lori McNeil, Houston, and Rennae Stubbs, Australia (4), del. Audra Keller, Memphis, Tenn., and Nicole Pratt, Australia, 6·3, 6·4. Mary Lou Daniels, Munster, Ind., and Gretchen Magers, San Diego, del. Karina Habsudova, Czech Republic, and Nicole Muns­Jegermen, Netherlands, 6·2, 7·6 (7·4). Sandy Collins, Odessa, Texas, end Mariaan de Sward!, South Africa, del. Nicole Arendt, Gainesville, Fla., and Kristine Radford, Australia, 3. 6, 7-6 (7·1), 6-3. Mixed Double• Firat Round Larlsa Nelland, Latvia, and Andrei Olhovskly, Russia, del. Mercedes Paz, Algentina, and David Macpherson, Australia, 6-4, 6·2. Conchita Martinez and Sergio Casal, Spain (6), del. Andrea Strnadova, Czech Republic, and Laurie Warder, Australia, 6·2, 6·4. Jill Hetherington and Glenn Mlchibata, Canada, del. Patty Fendick, Sacramento, Calif., and Steve Devries, San Mateo, Calif., 7·5, 6-3. Elizabeth Smylie and John Fitzgerald, Australia (4), del. Ann Grossman, Grove City, Ohio,  Greater Milwaukee Morris Hatalsky Steve Pate Jay Haas Torn Sleckmann Russell Beiersdorl Scott Hoch Gene Sauers Nolan Henke Bill Kratzer! Billy Mayfair John Adams Mark Wiebe Jim McGovern Fred Funk Corey Pevin Richard Zokol Gary Hallberg HBiry Taylor Dan Halldorson Mark Lye Greg Kratt Mark McCumber Dave Rummells Andrew Magee Tim Simpson Keith Clearwater Bobby Clampett Brandel Chamblee Nick Price Ken Green Ed Dougherty Ronnie Black Brian Kamm Chris Perry Steve Lowery David Frost Gil Morgan Mark Carnevale Lee Janzen Chip Beck Paul Goydos Jeff Cook John Elliott John Dowdall Donnie Hammond Ed Flori Doug Tewell Dick Mast Peter Persons David Edwards Ted Schulz Bruce Lietzke Howard Twitty Perry Moss Jc Anderson Jaime Gomez Craig Parry Kirk Triplett Kelly Gibson Brad Bryant Kenny Knox Bruce Fleisher Hale Irwin Bill Glasson David Tentis Steve Lamontagne Jim Thorpe Bob Estes Fulton Allem Jay Don Blake Tommy Armour Ill Mark Blocks  Open P•r Scorea 31·3~4 -8 32·3~5 ·1 33-3~6 -6 34·32---66 -6 34-32---66 -6 33·34---67 ·5 34·3~7 -5 33·34---67 -5 33·34---67 ·5 33·34---67 ·5 32·35---67 -5 32·35---67 ·5 34·33---67 ·5 33-34---67 -5 34·3~7 -5 34-33---67 -5 34-33---67 -5 35-32---67 -5 29·39---68 -4 32·3-8 -4 32·3-8 -4 33-35---68 -4 35-33---68 -4 32·3-8 -4 34·34---68 -4 34-34-68 -4 34·34---68 -4 3t-37---68 -4 34-34---68 -4 32-37---69 -3 32·37---69 -3 33·36-69 -3 35·34---69 -3 34·35---69 -3 34·35---69 -3 36·3~9 -3 34·35---69 -3 36·3~9 -3 36·33---69 -3 35·34---69 -3 33·3-9 -3 35·34---69 -3 36·33---69 -3 34·35---69 -3 35·34-69 -3 32·37---69 -3 35-34-69 -3 34·35---69 -3 35·34---69 -3 36-3~9 -3 35·34---69 -3 32·37---69 -3 35-34---69 -3 35-34-69 -3 33·3-9 -3 35·34---69 -3 35·35-70 ·2 34-36-70 ·2 34·36-70 ·2 34·36-70 ·2 35-35-70 ·2 34·36-70 ·2 35·35-70 ·2 37·33-70 ·2 34·36-70 ·2 37-33-70 ·2 35·35-70 ·2 33-37-70 ·2 37·33-70 ·2 37·33-70 ·2 36·34-70 ·2 1·39-70 ·2  
Pete Sampras (2), Tampa, Fla., del. Daniel Vacek, Czech Republic, 6-4, 5·7, 6·2, 7·6 (7·3). Thomas Muster (12), Austria, del. Aaror Krickstein, Grosse Pointe, Mich., 6-4, 6·0, 6·3.  Helena Sukova (12), Czech Republic, del. Natalia Medvedeva, Ukraine, 6·3, 8·4. Jenny Byrne, Australia, del. Kristine Radford, Australia, 3-6, 6·1, 6-4.  and Jim Pugh, Palos Verdes, Calif., 6·3, 7·6 (7·5). Katrina Adams, Houston, and Rikard Bergh, Sweden, del. Debbie Graham, Fountain Valley, Calif., and Scott Melville, Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.,  Bob Lohr Neal Lancaster David Ogrin Marco Dawson  35-36-71 35-36-71 36-35-71 37·34-71  ·1 ·1 ·1 ·1  
Marc Goellner, Germany, daf. Jaime Yzaga,  Magdalena Maleeva (1 0), Bulgara, del. Elna  6·3, 7-6 (2-4).  
Peru, 4-6, 6·3, 6·4, 7-6 (8-6).  Reinsch, South Africa, 1-6, 7·5, 7-6 (7·5).  Natalia  Zvereva,  Belarus,  and  Mark  
Alexander Volkov (14), Russia, del. Kevin  Zlna Garrison Jackson (16), Houston, del.  Kratzmann,  Australia,  del.  Linda  Harvey-Wild,  
lllivAH. South Africa, 6·7 (7·3), 7·6 (7-4), 6-1, 6·3.  Teml Whltlinger, Neenah, Wis., 6·2, 6·3.  

.-:-· 

E 
L 
c 
0 
M -E 
THURSDAY 
IG SURF DRIVE-IN MOVIE!! 
Double Feature: 
* 
say anything 

* 
Singles 


Begins at Dusk Fieldhouse Mall 
Rain Site: LaFortune Ballroom 
FRIDAY 
Live at Stonehenge ... 
ROCKFEST II 
Student Bands/Refreshments 8:30PM at the Fieldhouse Mall 

SEPTEMBER 2-5, 1993 
SATURDAY 
CLIFFHANGER 
STARRING: SYLVESTER STALLONE 
MONTGOMERY THEATER LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER 
7:00 PM, 9:30PM, & 12:00 AM 
FREE BILLIARDS 
GORCH GAMES ROOM LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER 6:00PM -1:00AM 
FREE VIDEO GAMES 
GORCH GAMES ROOM 6:00PM -7:00PM 
COUPONS Wll.L BE DISTRIBUTED AT TifE ABOVE EVENTS FOR FOOD SPECIALS AT THE HUDDLE 
SUNDAY 
Comedians 
Chris "Crazy Legs" Fonseca 
& 
Buzz Sutherland 
8:00PM 101 Debartolo Cost: $3.00 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER INFORMATION DESK 
SPONSORED BY: 
w 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

E 
STUOENT UNION 80.4.RD 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
E K E 
N 
D 

Chris Fonseca 
Buzz Sutherland 

-------~ -~~-----~---_,-----~ 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • U.S. OPEN page 21 
U.S. Open proves dangerQus Martina Navratilova 'still has the game' 
as seeded players diminish , 
By BOB GREENE 
Associated Press 
Gone from the U.S. Open competition is Lisa Raymond, the two-time NCAA women's champion from Wayne, Pa., who was eliminated today in the second round by Natalia Zvereva, 6-4, 6-1. It was an eearlier-than-expected exit for Raymond, who reached the fourth round at Wnnbledon just after turning pro this summer and said she expected to crack the top 20 by the end of the year. 
"I expect a lot from myself. I set very high goals for. myself, and sometimes, you know, I put too much pressure on myself to try to achieve those goals too fast," Raymond said. 
But still around was the tour­nament's luckiest loser, Argentina's Maria Jose Gaidano, who made the field only through a last-minute ill­ness to sixth-seeded Mary Joe Fernandez. 
Gaidano, a loser in the quali­fier rounds, reached the third 
second set. 
magazine! 
round of the n1ain draw by 
beating Emanuela Zardo 6-4, 
6-1. . Leila M~skhi, wh() upset 
Jennifer Capriati in the first 
round, "was eliminated 6~ 1, 6~,2, 
by Katerina Maleeva. 
And the spate of injuries and 
illness thll,t _has hit the Open 
continued. A knee injury forced 
Carl-Uwe Steeb out of his sec­
ond-round match against 
Arnaud Boetsch, with Boetsch 
leading 6-4; 6~4.1~0. _ <:]! 
On Wednesday, the fifth~ 
seedecJ. Bruguera ~as upset by 
fellowSpariiard Javier Sanchezi1 
while Lendl, a three-time UiS. 
Open winn~r. retired•~th. ··!'i!• 
injured knee in the third set ot 
his match against Australia'~ 
Neil Borwiek. 
That broughtto five the num­ber of men's seeded playe.rs who have failed to make it through the opening round, a record thinning of theranks m. the Open era. The previous U.S. Open mark for seeded men's players eliminated in-the· first round was three, set in 1986 and equaled in 1991. 
By HAL BOCK Navratilova, six weeks short AP Sports Writer of her 37th birthday, still has NEW YORK the game and resolve to suc­The years have been kind to ceed in Grand S.Iam tennis, and Martina Navratilova, even if the she put both on display schedule makers at the U.S. Thursday night, dispatching 
Open were not. Sabine Appelmans 6-1, 6-3. 

Martina Navratilova, who soon faces her 37th birthday, still faces oppo­nents with the relentlessness of a winner. 
"She started playing better and I played about the same," Navratilova said. "I think I let her get in the groove of my serve a little bit. I didn't mix it up." 
It was as if she were making mental notes for the next match, whenever that happens to be. 
Seeded No. 3, Navratilova feels she can still make troUble in this tournament that she has won four times. 
"I think I am playing well enough to get through the next n~und," she said. "I mean I am picking it up and I have been hitting the ball real solid. There is really nothing that should just go off and not work. Everything is working and everything is pretty solid tech­nically. 
"Even if I get nervous, the technique carries me through. And if the technique falls apart, my head carries me through. So I have a pretty good backup system."
3.99Rubbermaid® shower caddy. Reg. 4.99 
And it still works after 21 years on the Grand Slam tour. 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
student airfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued on-the-spot. 

•lntemationaiiD 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. DE>arbom St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels 

It took her just 60 minutes, but she had been waiting since Monday to play them. 
"It was weird playing out there," Navratilova said. "I am glad I got it out of the way. I played Monday at 1 and I played Thursday at night. Is there a tournament going on here? I have been hitting at Central Park and biding time." 
While Navratilova was defeat­ing Appelmans on the grand­stand, Boris Becker was next door in the stadium, playing a first-round match four days into the tournament. Navratilova just shook her head. "That is beyond com­ment," she said, "beyond 'No comment."' 
The delay hardly disturbed the grande dame's game, though. She zipped through the match, although there were moments of frustration for her, starting with jets zooming over the National Tennis Center. 
"I could hardly hear the ball with the planes," Navratilova said. "It really messed me up a couple of times." 
Then there was the matter of 
not blitzing Appelmans, actual­
ly losing four games and even 
having her serve broken in the 
I l 
l j 
~ 
4 
j j 
~ 
• 
1 
---------------~-_.~~---·­
page 22 The Observer ·U.S. OPEN 
Becker wins marathon match while ex-champ Edberg loses in 2nd round 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
AP Tennis Wri1er 
NEW YORK 
Night turned to day, day to night, yet on and on toiled Boris Becker. Stefan Edberg came and went, the U.S. Open's two­time defending champ gone in the second round, and still there was Becker playing his 24-hour first-round match. 
Becker ended his marathon at last Thursday night, beating the rain, the heat, more rain and a pesty Andrei Cherkasov to advance 3-6, 6-7 (10-8), 7-5, 6­4, 6-4 and land in the second round exactly 82 hours and 23 minutes after the Open began. 
Becker, the 1989 Open champ and No. 4 seed this year, seemed doomed by his temper and his erratic shots in a match he wanted to play Monday. He started it Wednesday night, saw it suspended by rain after two points and resumed Thursday afternoon. 
Then, after several furious episodes of shouting at the umpire, and after a 1 1/2-hour rain delay following the third set that pushed the match into the night session, Becker regained his poise and his power and cut down his errors. The actual match time was 4 hours, 43 minutes, but it lasted from one night to the next and was seen in part by 62,000 fans 

0 
0 
"'1" 
0 
I t-­
1.1'\ 
N 
.... 
t ­
t 
over three sessions. 
And it turned, oddly, on an outburst by the normally com­posed Cherkasov. Up a break and leading 4-3 in the fourth set, Cherkasov angrily disputed a forehand volley by Becker that the Russian thought went wide. Cherkasov stomped around, fumed, marked the spot with his racket, then lost 10 of the next 11 points to drop the set and go to a fifth. 
Becker, who served 17 aces to Cherkasov's 5, thrives in five­setters with a 25-11 career record -eight times after being down two sets. But he hardly wanted one this night with another match Friday against Jakob Hlasek. 
"I think this is not fair treat­ment to a guy like Becker, espe­cially since they didn't have any big names on Monday," Becker said. 
Cherkasov, ranked 47th in the world, has lost five of his six matches with Becker. 
"If he's fit, he will go far," Cherkasov said. "If he's not, he's going to lose, because five sets is very tough." 
Edberg had chances, until he glanced up at one fmal lob. He couldn't reach it and he couldn't race back for it. And with that lob, he knew, the defense of his titles was over. 
Edberg danced on the tightrope until he finally fell off, going down hard. He teetered precariously in the first round, surviving a five-setter just as he did three times before winning the title a year ago. He tried to do it again after losing the first two sets against 18th-ranked Karel Novacek, but this time Edberg fell 7-6 (7-3), 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. 
Edberg's loss marked only the third time in the Open era that a defending champion has lost as early as the second round. Mats Wilander in 1989 and Ilie Nastase in 1973 were the two other champs to suffer such a quick exit. 
Edberg also became the sixth men's seed to fall, following five others who departed in the first round. Michael Chang, No. 7, had a brief struggle before advancing to the third round with a 6-1. 6-2, 4-6, 6-3 night victory over Nicolas Pereira, ending a 13 112-hour day of tennis at Flushing Meadow. 
The top women, meanwhile, moved along easily. No. 2 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario reached the third round with a 6-2, 6-2 victory over Linda Harvey-Wild, and No.3 Martina Navratilova beat Sabine Appelmans 6-1, 6-3. 
"It was one of those days," Edberg said. "He played a solid, good match. I was struggling with my timing. I couldn't gen­erate any power for some rea­son. I was pushing the ball instead of hitting it. 
"It's sad. I've been playing pretty well and l had a reason­able draw. You can't bring it back. I did what I could. I felt I was fighting back, and within five minutes the match was over." 
Edberg, indeed, seemed on the verge of coming back in the fourth set. He hit a leaping overhead backhand to hold serve and tie the set 4-4. But Novacek, who out-aced Edberg 14-1, held with a ·clever combi­nation of attack and baseline tennis. 
When Edberg served to stay in the match, trailing 5-4, Novacek pounced on his first two serves to return brutal win­ners. Novacek made it 0-40 with another backhand return 

Direct from Ireland 
Sweaters • Jewelry • Music • Gifts 
tune Student 
xot ~'3. Sarin Room 
THIS WEEKEND ONLY 
------~~-----·-~~--------­

AP Filephoto Weather, fans, his opponent, not even Boris Becker himself could pre­vent him from winning a 24-hour match. 
that Edberg netted. And after saving two match points, Edberg just watched in despair as a beautiful backhand lob by Novacek drifted over his head and safely inside the baseline. 
"Novacek was just teeing off at everything," said Tony Pickard, Edberg's coach. "They could play that match tomor­row and most of his winners would hit the backstop. In the first round, Olivier Delaitre did the same thing. More and more guys are coming out and teeing off like this. On the days they all go in, there's not much you can do about it. But still, honestly, I thought Stefan could get out of 
it ... 
Edberg, a Swede who lives in London, has never enjoyed playing in hot, humid weather. It bothered him in the first round when he nearly lost. It wasn't hot Thursday, but the clammy, heavy air wore him down. 
"I played well in patches," Edberg said. "But I was seeing the bali a little late. I hesitated on a lot of occasions. There's 
, 
always pressure when you've won here before. You look for­ward to performing as good as last year." 
Novacek was deservedly proud of the biggest victory of his life. 
"I showed the U.S. public I can play some good tennis," he said. 
The Edberg-Novacek drama was played out on the grand­stand court at the same time Becker labored on the stadium court. Rain interrupted that match moments after Edberg's loss. 
Earlier, Pete Sampras strug­gled before winning. Two dozen aces whizzed past him and his stoic expression never changed. He didn't notice Sophia Loren right behind him, cheering "mah-velous" when he slapped back some of those serves for winners. He showed not a trace of excitement when he hit 17 aces of his own or closed out a 6-4, 5-7, 6-2, 7-6 (7-3) victory over Daniel Vacek to reach the third round. 

The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Circulation Drivers 
Must be available between 11 AM and 1 PM at least one day per week. 
Contact Brian Kennedy at 631-5313 or joe Riley at 634-1780. 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Men's tennis ends '93 campaign a step from repeat finals appearance 

match. 
1993 Activities Night 
Tuesday, September 7 7-10 p.m. JACC (Gate 3) 
®Yl@ll u~ ©l®~~ &1 ©aw@lau~®OO®au~ 
to meet your interests: 
•Music Clubs 
•Athletic Societies 
•Special Interest Clubs 
•Academic Clubs 
•Social/Service Organizations 
•Ethnic Clubs 
•Media Organizations 
Meet New Friends Get lnvol~ed in the Spirit of ND/SMC 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, Club Coordination Coundl and the Center for Social Concerns 

The Irish first got an impres­sive win from an unlikely com­bination. Freshman Jason Pun was teamed with senior Chris Wojtalik just for the tourna­ment, and the two scored a 6-4, 6-1 win over Barbarin and Laurent Orsini in just their sec­ond collegiate match together. 
From there the 14th-ranked doubles combination of Forsyth and Coleman took over. The pair scored a 6-3, 6-4 upset win over the No. 2 doubles team in the nation, Courcol and Laurent Miquelard, to clinch the match. 
"As we were ahead in the doubles you could just see the looks on their faces," said Bayliss of the Irish's mastery of the Bulldogs the last two sea­sons, "It was deja vu for them." 
Later on in the singles cham­pionships, it was Chuck Coleman who took center stage. 
The two-time All-American, who previously teamed with David Dilucia to form the na­tion's top doubles team, now became an All-American on the strength of his singles play, ad­vancing to the final-16 in his last collegiate competition. 
"It was really a great showing for Chuck," said Bayliss. 
Coleman's career was then capped with the announcement that he was selected to receive the Arthur Ashe award, which is given to the collegiate player who best exemplifies Ashe's sportsmanship and leadership. 
Coleman, who is now at law school at Alabama, was hon­ored on Friday at the U.S. Open. 
Coleman's selection for the award follows DiLucia's win­ning of the Dan Magill award a year ago, which goes to the year's top collegiate player. 
"I was extremely proud of our team," said Bayliss as he re­flected on the loss one of the great classes in Notre Dame tennis history, "It will be a real interesting year." 
The Irish head into the year returning just two singles play­ers in Wilson and Sprouse, and no doubles combination. But they do have a secret weapon. 
Fifth-year senior Andy Zurcher, who was sidelined for all last spring after wrist surgery, will return to lead the inexperienced Irish into a rebuilding year. 
"It's a God-send to have him b·ack," said Bayliss, "He's worth two or three points for each match with the leaderhsip he brings this team. 
"But this team needs to fmd it own identity. We've really had some great players, and now they've passed the baton to the others." 
The Irish will look to seniors Tom North, Allen Lopez, and Tad Eckert for additional lead­ership, and they also boast an excellent freshman class that should also contribute. 
Ryan Simme from Houston won the Olympic Fest tennis competition in San Antonio, and Louisville's Mike Mather, Puerto Rico's Jaime Viquira, and a host of other top recruits should bolster the Irish's chances for another top-20 ranking. 
"It depends on how much they've grown up in a year," said Bayliss, "And once again we will play hard and do our best. We're going to focus on performance goals, and then I think the winning will take care of itself." 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was like the same season with different results. 
As they did in the 1992 sea­son, the Irish men's tennis team faced USC for a chance at the championship match. !993 sea­son also ended with a member of the team receiving a highly respected award. 
After downing fifth-ranked Mississippi State 5-3 in the sec­bod round of the NCAA's in May, the tenth-seeded Irish had a chance to repeat their appearance in the NCAA finals by defeating No. 1 USC on the same courts on which they pulled off the improbable upset in the semifmals one year ago. 
But this year it was a differ­ent story. Though all but two of the men in the Irish lineup was back this year, this was the quarterfinals, and more impor­tantly, the Irish were without two of the emotional leaders they depended on a year ago, David DiLucia and Andy Zurcher. 
Despite a solid effort, the Irish were shutout 5-0 by the 20-2 Trojans, who went on to capture their second NCAA title in the last three years. 
No. 6 Brian MacPhie started it off with a 6-2, 6-0 defeat of the Irish's top player, No. 16 Will Forsyth. No. 10 Wayne Black then followed with a 6-2, 6-2 win over No. 49 Chuck Coleman. The No. 32 player in the country, Jon Leach, fought off a stubborn Mark Schmidt 6­1, 6-7 (5). 6-1 for the win at three-singles, junior Todd Wilson fell to No. 83 Adam Peterson 6-1, 6-1, and fresh­man Mike Sprouse lost to 34th­ranked Lukas Hovorka at six­singles to close out the match. 
"Southern Cal went just untested through the whole tournament," noted Irish coach Bob Bayliss, "They just dictated play from the get go. 
"We just lost to a better team." 
The tournament had started off well enough for the Irish, with their fourth upset of a top­10 team in their last two years in the NCAA tournament, and their fourth victory in as many tries against the Mississippi State Bulldogs. 
Though Forsyth lost a 6-4, 6­4 match to No. 3 Daniel Courcol, whom he had upset in the Irish's 5-2 win over the Bulldogs in the Blue-Gray Classic, the Irish captured three critical singles victories. 
The first came in the form of a 6-3, 6-4 win by Coleman over No. 69 Per Nilsson, the second with a 6-1, 6-3 Schmidt win over Remi Barbarin. 
"Coleman and Schmidt really got it done, as they had been doing throughout the entire year," said Bayliss, "They beat some great players in straight sets." 
Wilson then picked up a hard­fought 3-6, 6-3, 7-5 win over Stephane Plot, in which he staved off match point in the third set to capture the victory. 
"It was really a great match," 
said Bayliss, "Probably the key 
of the match was Todd's come­
from-behind win. It was a 
great win for Todd." 
So although Rosas and Sprouse faltered at No. 4 and 6 singles, the Irish were in the drivers seat as they turned to the doubles portion of the 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 


AUTHORIZED DEALER 
SALES • PARTS • ACCESSORIES • CLOTHING 
•SERVICE • ASSEMBLY • FREE CHECK UP • • TRADE-INS ACCEPTED • • EXERCISERS • BMX HEADQUARTERS • 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY  
ROSELAND  MISHAWAKA  
277-8866 135 US31  259-4862 3835LWE  
ACROSS FROM RANDALL'S INN  

..... 
--~ 


~--..-------...-----------~~ 
Friday, September 3, 1993
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
. 
Problems dimming spotlight Penn St. win is first step to Rose Bowl 

for N.C. State coach's debut 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
Mike O'Cain will be coaching football Saturday night. Right now. he's playing 20 questions. 
O'Cain. the successor to North Carolina State's Dick Sheridan. will begin his head coaching career this weekend when he takes the 24th-ranked Wolfpack into its season opener against Purdue. Already, he's had to confront some problems that might dim the spotlight. 
Defensive tackle Carl Reeves, a 225-pounder who made up for his lack of size with aggressive play and quick­ness, broke a bone in his leg in last week's scrimmage and is out for the year. John Akins, also a tackle, has been strug­gling with a sore shoulder and isn't likely to play against the Boilermakers. 
With a depleted defensive line, one of O'Cain's moves was to switch Loren Pinkney, a 205­pound outside linebacker. to Reeves' position. 
"We don't know how etTec· tive he wilJ be at that new posi· lion," O'Cain says. "He has the ability and the same size as Carl. We have to get our best 11 guys out there." 
A~y film the Wolfpack has watched in preparing for Purdue's offense isn't much good, either. Starting quarter· 
....._ 
back Matt Pike is facing disci· pUnary action after his arrest 
Ohio State size and tradition overwhelm Rice 
By RUSlY MILLER AP Sports Writer 
COLUMBUS 
Calling it a David and Goliath 
matchup doesn't do the Rice­
Ohio State game justice. 
When the teams take the field Saturday at Ohio Stadium in the season opener for both, 18th­ranked Ohio State has several overwhelming advantages in size and tradition: 
-Ohio State, the nation's largest single campus in terms of enrollment with 52,000 stu­dents, is 20 times larger than Hice. With 2,600 students, Hice is the smallest school in the nation playing Division I-A foot­ball. 
-Rice is smaller than 16 col­leges in Ohio that play football, including NCAA Division III members Oberlin, Case Western Reserve, Capital, Ohio Northern and John Carroll. 
-Since the last time Rice played in a bowl game in 1961, Ohio State has played in 21 of them. Rice won its last Southwest Conference title in 1957. The Buckeyes have won
.. 
or shared 14 Big Ten Conference crowns since then. 
Bigger doesn't always mean better. The stakes are higher at Ohio State. 
"Hice, overall, obviously isn't a Michigan or Penn State or somebody like that," said Ohio State defensive end Jason Simmons. "But we have to think of them that way." 
last Sunday for underage drink­ing at a fraternity party. It's not known whether Pike will miss the entire game, or give way to sophomore Rick Trefzger, who has yet to take a snap in a game. 
Purdue went 4-7 last year and is being proje,cted to do worse this season under coach Jim Colletto. O'Cain chooses to ignore that notion. 
"I know every football coach that faces a team says they were a good football team last year," O'Cain said. "But they played tough against Michigan. In the first half. they stuffed Michigan. They played them about as good as anybody in the country." 
Purdue lost 24-17. and that's enough to have O'Cain preach­ing respect and concentration to the Wolfpack. 
"I think our football team sees the same things we do (on film}," he said. "I'm not going to oversell anybody to our foot­ball team. If they are a team we should beat, I'll tell them. But I don't think there is anybody on our schedule that if we don't do the right things. they can't beat us." 
Still, O'Cain won't know everything about his team until kickoff. Questions are just part of the preseason routine. 
there were rumors throughout the year that coach John Cooper would be fired. 
"The image is improving, but it'll take a few more winning seasons, not just one, to get that respect" Ohio State has, said Rice coach Fred Goldsmith. "Even today, I can see where we could be in big trouble in any game we play. 
"Yet, I also see some glimpses of hope. If we do this Saturday or this happens or this happens, we've got a chance to win. But before, it was hard to envision any of that." 
Cooper hopes his sixth edition of the Buckeyes meets high early expectations, some of which have come directly from the coach. 
"I don't try to compare one team to another," he said when asked if this year's team was better than last year's, "but at least going in, I don't think there's a lot of question marks on this team." 
By KELLY P. KISSEL Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
Penn State puts behind not only last year's 7-5 season but also 106 years of tradition when it plays Minnesota this weekend. 
If Penn State wins Saturday, there will be talk that the Nittany Lions took their first step to the Rose Bowl. If Penn State loses to a team that was 2-9 last year, there will be sec­ond-guessing galore. 
"All I want to do is make sure that we play with some enthusi­asm, we hit people and get a little pride in the way we play," Coach Joe Paterno said. "I sense we lost that in a couple of ball games last year." 
After 3 1-2 years of planning, Penn State's entrance into the Big Ten is finally here. There's no early season tune-up for either team; the conference race starts Saturday. 
"Obviously, you don't want to play a team like Penn State in their first conference game ever," Minnesota coach Jim Wacker said. "If I had my druthers, I'd rather play against somebody else. 
"You never like to play a con­ference opponent in your open­er, and if you have to, you want to play them at home," Wacker said. 
In Penn State's 106 years as 
Ohio State was hit heavily by the graduation of Steve Tovar and Greg Smith on defense and the early jump to the pros by safety Hoger Harper and last season's leading rusher, Robert Smith. The Buckeyes go into the season missing their top three tacklers, top two inter­ceptors, starting quarterback, leading receiver and leading rusher from last season. 
Hice enters as a 15-point underdog. But the Owls have a great equalizer in quarterback Burt Emmanuel. 
Emmanuel was fourth in the nation in pass efficiency last year. Since he also rushed for 680 yards, it's easy to see why Ohio State is worried about him. 
The game will be played before more than 90,000 fans and will be televised nationally by ESPN. Although Hice steps into the spotlight to play the likes of Texas and Texas A&M yearly, there still is no mistak­ing the air of a mismatch. 

Welcome Back ND 
•Now 
over 5,000 CD's in stock 

•Persona/listening 
stations 

•Computerized 
look-up system 

•Up 
to $5 cash for your CD's 


an independent, it won 87 openers. Seventy-four of the games were at home, where the Nittany Lions have dropped only seven opening contests. 
To call the Penn State offense unsettled is an understatement. Paterno in the last week named John Sacca his starting quar­terback, said he would use three tailbacks regularly and announced injuries at wide receiver and fullback. 
"They are a pressure defen­sive football team. It is never easy," Paterno said. "I just wish we had more experience at the wideouts so that we could maybe do a few more things that we would like to do against this kind of defense." 
Sacca completed 53 percent of his passes last year in start­ing six of the first seven games. Kerry Collins (47 percent) start­ed four games and is back, as well. Paterno hopes to redshirt sophomore quarterback Wally Richardson. 
If Penn State's 7-5 season was considered poor by Penn State standards, Minnesota needs to rebound from a 2-9 mark from Wacker's first year. 
"We're a little stronger. We're a little bit better, and yet, we're not where we need to be," Wacker said. 
Minnesota at least has a Wacker-experienced quarter­back. Tim Schade started five games at Texas Christian in 1991 for Wacker, then trans­ferred to Minnesota with Wacker and sat out a year. He completed 60 percent of his passes at TCU before transfer­ring. 
"The unknown quantity would be the quarterback," Paterno said. 
While Penn State will rely on three tailbacks to replace Hichie Anderson, who carried for 900 yards last season, and 
ROBIN 
OF FIRE~ 
Daily: 4:30, 7:15,9:45 Sat-Mon: 1:30,4:30,7:15,9:45 
NEEDR! THINGS 
ED HARRIS 1!!1 
2:00, 4;30, 7;00, 9;45 

1:00,3:00,5;00, 7;00,9:1~ 
use several receivers to replace All-America wideout O.J. McDuffie, Minnesota has its skill positions set against the Nittany Lion defense. 
Antonio Carter will start in the backfield after leading the Golden Gophers in rushing (572 yards) last year. Omar Douglas, who averaged 22 yards per punt return last season, starts at wide receiver, where he, too, led the team last year, with 669 yards. 
The pressure is on, Penn State defensive tackle Lou Benfatti said. 
"If we lollygag and get beat up, it will set the tone for the rest of the season," he said. 

Photo courtesy of Penn State Sports Information 
Joe Paterno looks forward to his first season as a coach in the Big Ten at Penn State. 
HARRISON 
FORO~ 
THE FUGITIVE Daily: 4:15,7:00, 10:00 Sat-Mon: 1:00,4:15,7:00, 10:00 
IMDai&B 
VAN DAMME .1!!1 
12:45,3:00, 5:15, 7:30, 10:00 
Magical. Marvelous. 
THE 
~ECRET VARDEN~ 
12:30, 2:30, 4:45, 6:45, 8:45 
The Owls went 6-5 last year, 
•Cash, check, Visa, Mastercharge, Discover 
the first time since 1963 that Hice won more games than it 
4219 Grape Road
-
~R~f.~r!llY SLEEPLESS
lost in a season. The Buckeyes 
went 8-3-1, finished second in 
Hours: Mon -Sat 1 0 -9 you'll nevertorget. ffi IN SEATTLE m
the Big Ten and played in a 
Sun 12-6 
1:45,4:15,6:45,9:00 12:30, 2:45, 5;00, 7:15,9:30 
New Year's Day bowl game, but 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Majors makes victorious debut with Pitt 
By STEPHEN HAWKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
HATTIESBURG, Miss. 
The results were even better the second time around for Johnny Majors. 
Majors made his second sue· cessful debut at Pitt Thursday night, with Curtis Martin scor· ing twice and Tom Tumulty making two key defensive plays to preserve the Panthers' 14-10 victory over Southern Mississippi. 
The victory came two decades after Pitt held heavily favored Georgia to a 7-7 tie in Majors' first game as coach. Three sea­sons later, Pitt won the national championship. 
"It was a disappointing loss," 
Southern Miss coach Jeff Bower 
said. "It was not for a lack of 
effort. We just had too many turnovers and failed to come up 
with  any  turnovers  on  
defense."  
Majors, forced  out  last  

December after 16 seasons at Tennessee. returned to Pitt to rebuild a program that had a 13-20-1 record the last three seasons, including 3-9 last year. 
Martin, one of just four returning offensive starters, ran for one touchdown and caught a TD pass from sophomore quarterback John Ryan, who replaced four-year starter Alex Van Pelt. 
"Coach Majors is the main reason we won this game," Martin said. "He motivates the team to where everybody wants to go out and win. I'm not a selfish player but I'm thankful 

Johnny Majors begins his rebuiding of the Pitt football program with a victory over Southern Miss. 
for the opportunity to carry the football." Ryan hooked up with Martin for a 9-yard touchdown with 
5:27 left in the third quarter for what proved to be the winning score, but it took a few breaks and a couple of big defensive plays for Pitt to win its seventh straight season opener. 
Tommy Waters drove Southern Miss to the Pitt 34 by completing six of eight passes in a 55-yard march, only to have Tumulty intercept a side­line pass with 43 seconds left. 
"We had entirely too many turnovers and too many execu­tive errors," Bower said. "We missed blocking assignments and had a number of break­downs which kept us from hit­ting the big play." 
Martin gave Pitt a 7-0 lead with a 2-yard run on fourth­and-1 just three minutes into 
-the game as the Panthers took advantage of Chris Buckhalter's fumble. Southern Miss tied it when Myreon McKinney scored from the 1 on a pitchout. The Golden Eagles moved to the Pitt 18 in the second quar­ter, but Tumulty sacked Waters on third and 4, forcing Johnny Lomoro to kick a 42-yard field goal for a 10-7 lead. Lomoro missed a 41-yard field goal later in the half. 
Dietrich Jells returned the second-half kickoff 66 yards to the Southern Miss 26, but Pitt came away empty when Steve Kalmanides missed a 4 7 -yard field goal attempt. 
------~--------~ 
~------------------~

Martin, a junior tailback hampered by nagging injuries the past two seasons, ran 21 times for 68 yards and caught seven passes for 84 yards. Ryan completed 12 of 19 passes for 118 yards. 
Waters completed 14 of 27 for 132 yards and had four intercepted, three in the fourth quarter. 
Southern Miss outgained Pitt 296-151. 
en •
• 0 
--~ ! cc 

:iN
• 
ot! PIZZAS 
• QA. 
® NOTRE DAME 271-0300 


I 


SUBS 
SAINT MARY'S 289-0033 
#1) What's Bigger than BIGFOOT? 
#2) What's over 2 Feet Long? 
#3) What has 
30 Flavor-Filled 
Slices? 
#4) What's the. • • 
BEST VALUE 
ON 
CAMPUS? 
SPECTACUlAR 
SliCES Orderwithyour GO~~favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 
30 inches.. .That's almost ayard of pizza. 
2 Cheese Dominators only $1695 ··--­1 Cheese Dominator only $895 
EXTRA TOPPINGS•••$1.00 EACH 

Friday, September 3, 1993 
page 26 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Stanford not the first obstacle for Washington this season 
By RICK WARNER AP Football Writer 
SEAITLE 
Twenty months ago, the Washington Huskies capped a 12-0 season by beating Michigan in the Rose Bowl and winning a share of their first national championship. Now the team is making headlines of a different sort. 
In the past 10 days, the Huskies have been hit with a two-year bowl ban and other severe sanctions by the Pac-10, lost the winningest coach in school history, and had two key players ruled ineligible for Saturday's season opener against Stanford. 
These are tumultuous times for a team that has won three 
.... 
straight Pac-1 0 championships and gone to bowl games 13 of the last 14 years. 
"It's been crazy around here," receiver Joe Kralik said. "Nothing would surprise me anymore." 
Kralik and running back Beno Bryant must sit out the Stanford game because the NCAA said they received improper benefits from summer jobs. But the biggest name missing from the sideline will be Don James, who coached the Huskies for 18 years before resigning Aug. 22 to protest the Pac-10 penalties. 
James will watch the game from a guest box high atop Husky Stadium, but his pres­ence will be felt by his former players down on the field, who plan to wear "OJ" stickers on their helmets. 
"We're dedicating the season to him," said star running back Napoleon Kaufman. "He's a great coach, and he got a raw deal." 
The Huskies feel they got a raw deal from the Pac-10, which forced the school to give up 20 scholarships, 65 recruit­ing visits and $1.4 million in television revenue over the next two years because of NCAA vio­lations that included boosters giving players loans, free meals and inflated wages for summer jobs. 
The Huskies also think they got a bum rap from Stanford coach Bill Walsh, who called Washington's players "merce­naries" and portrayed the school as a football factory in an offseason speech. Although Walsh has apologized for the comments and claims he was misinterpreted, the Huskies aren't in a forgiving mood. 
"I was disappointed and hurt," said defensive end Jamal Fountaine, a San Francisco native who rooted for the 49ers when Walsh led them to three Super Bowl victories. "I idol­ized him when I was growing up, but what he said just isn't true. It was a low blow." 
Jim Lambright, a longtime Washington assistant who was promoted to head coach after James quit, admits that he has been using Walsh's remarks to motivate the Huskies. 
''I'm going to milk it for everything I can," he said. "When somebody opens the door like that, you have to take advantage of it." 
Walsh knows he'll be a target of the 72,500 fans at Husky Stadium. 
"I was thinking about going up there dressed as Abe Lincoln," he said. "Nobody would recognize me in tall hat and tails." 
Fountaine, a civil engineering major who was an honors stu­dent in high school, said he resents Walsh's suggestion that many Washington players are hired guns who care more about football than education. But statistics show that only 39 percent of the scholarship play­ers who entered the school from 1983-86 graduated within six years -well below the 48 percent national average for Division 1-A players during that period. 
Washington athletic director Barbara Hedges said the fig­ures are misleading because they include players who trans­ferred to other schools or left early to turn pro. 
"I think we need a better way of calculating graduation rates," she said. "It should be based on players who stay in school and use up their eligibili­ty." 
Hedges acknowledged that the recent problems have hurt the university's image, but she doesn't think the damage is serious or long term. 
"The University of Washington has a proud history in academics and athletics," she said. "This is a small issue .. . and we will go on from here." 
That's also the attitude of the football team, which is setting its sights high despite the bowl ban. 
"We're shooting for a nation­al championship," said sopho­more quarterback Damon Huard, who will make his first career start against Stanford. "We look at every game as a bowl game. We want to show that we're the team that belongs in the Rose Bowl. If we win the Pac-10 and we're not in Pasadena, then the Rose Bowl won't be the granddaddy of them all." 
The 12th-ranked Huskies remain eligible for the national championship determined by The Associated Press media poll, but they are barred from title consideration in the USA Today-CNN coaches' poll, which does not include teams on probation. Two schools have won the AP title while on pro­bation, Auburn in 1957 and Oklahoma in 1974. 
But with no postseason game to shoot for, will the Huskies suffer a late-season letdown? 
"We can't slack off," defen­sive lineman D'Marco Farr said. "We have 11 bowl games. They just come in September, October and November instead of January 1." 
No game will probably be big­ger than the grudge match against No. 15 Stanford, which tied Washington for the Pac-10 title last season and won 10 games for the first time since 1940. The Huskies would love to answer Walsh by beating the Cardinal for the 1Oth straight time. 
"Coach Lambright told us to take out our aggression on the rest of the league," said backup quarterback Eric Bjornson. "Even if Bill Walsh had not opened his mouth, it would be a crazy day. I think the fans will be more relentless than we will." 
Lambright, who has the secu­rity of a four-year contract, doesn't plan any major changes from the James regime. But minor ones already are appar­ent. While the stone-faced James watched practices from the top of a tower, Lambright stays on the field, preferring closer contact with the players. 
After James resigned, a local radio station sent him 1,836 roses -a dozen for each of his 153 victories at Washington. 
"We're sending the dead ones to the Pac-10," his wife joked. 


Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that Includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and much more. 
Efficiencies from ;70
1-Bedrooms from 285 2-Bedrooms from 5 
Pool & Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio Air Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free Aerobics 
Stop by today and we'll ahow you how affordable apartment living can be. 

272-1SS() 
rHICKORij DlLLAqEf! 
Mon.-Fri. ~. Sat 1o-4 & Sun. 12-4 
rNJOTR [E [J)~M [E GOlf COQJ R~lE > STUDENT FALL PASSES ,,,,,=.,-~ AVAILABLE NOW ~ 7 $50~~ GOOD THROUGH NOV. 15, 1993 FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425  

Ball State faces tough first test in Orangemen 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL page 27 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
By WILLIAM KATES 
AP Sports Writer 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Dana Cottrell doesn't under­stand all the fuss. So what if No. 6 Syracuse is going to start three redshirt freshmen at line­backer on Saturday when it opens its 1993 season against Ball State? 
"I try not to think about it be­ing my first start," said Cottrell. ''I'm just going out there with the thought to get the job done." 
It is a combination of circum­stance and choice that the Orangemen will play three rookies in the middle of their defense. Three of last year's starters graduated and the lone returning starter, senior Dan Conley, decided to undergo re­
' 



9-ft. extension cords. 
--
role in that effort. 
This year, Cottrell and fellow newcomers Kendrick Thomas and Nate Hemsley will start at linebacker alongside senior Chip Todd, who has played in 37 straight games and been the Orangemen's No.1 backup over the past two seasons. 
All three players received na­tional honors during their se­nior seasons of high school football. But they know that is not going to help them Saturday against the Cardinals, who are led by a senior quar­terback with 27 starts under his belt. 
Cottrell said he expects he and his young teammates will receive a lot of attention from Ball State quarterback Mike Neu. 
Neu, who stands 6-foot-5, has 

constructive surgery on his completed 57.4 percent of his 
Joseph, a tri-captain, said it is knee and sit out his final year. pass attempts over his career. 
up to the rest of the defense to Last year, when Syracuse Last year, he was 162-of-282 
help the young linebacking
compiled a 10-2 record, its de­for 1,628 yards and 10 touch­group.
fense ranked fifth nationally downs. The negative against against the run and was tied for Neu is that he's been inter­"They are going to make mis­the national lead with 24 inter­cepted 32 times over three sea­takes, but nobody's perfect. As ceptions. The Orangemen's vet­sons. 
long as they are playing hard eran linebackers played a key Senior cornerback Dwayne and running to the ball, I don't care," said Joseph. 
Syracuse has not lost a home opener since 1986 when Mississippi State defeated the Orangemen 24-17, and it has been 29-6-2 overall in the Carrier Dome since then. 
·­
-
~--------~-------~-·---~--~--~ 
page 28 The Observer COLLEGE FOOTBALL Friday, September 3, 1993 
Football a fa~ily affair for father and son Bowden
Toledo's prac­tice for IU hampered by sickness M01.iated Press  
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. This hasn't been a week Toledo coach Gary Pinkel has enjoyed. The Mid-American Conference team's challenge of preparing Cor Big Ten oppo­nent Indiana was compounded by a possible outbreak or food poisoning. · Twenty-six members of the team became ill during Monday's practice and were treated Cor Ou-llke symptoms. 'Tve never been through a practice Uke that," Pinkel said. "With so many players going down, we were concerned." But the Rockets. are expected to be ready to attempt their second consecutive upset of a Big Ten opponent. Almost a year ago, Toledo pulled off a 33-29 shocker at Purdue -a week after the Boilermakers had vaulted into the national spotlight by defeating California, a team that was ranked nationally at the time. Pinkel sees no comparison between his team's game with Purdue and Saturday night's season-opener in Memorial Stadium. "Indiana is stronger than Purdue at this time, I don't think there's any question about that."  

By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Ala. 
Bobby Bowden took a brief respite from the high-pressure world of coaching No. 1 Florida State to play the role of proud 
papa. 
"It's easy when it's not your team," he said before watching Terry Bowden's first game as Auburn coach, a 16-12 victory over Mississippi on Thursday night. "If I was coaching, I would be nervous." 
Bobby Bowden flew to Auburn on a private plane shortly after his own team fin­ished practice Thursday after­noon. He got a police escort to Jordan-Hare Stadium, hugged his son outside the Auburn locker room, conducted his radio show by telephone from a nearby trailer and then headed to the stands to watch the game with his wife, Ann. 
Afterwards, it was back to the local airport for the return flight to Tallahassee so Bowden could depart with the Seminoles for Saturday's game at Duke. 
''I'm glad it worked out," he said. "Ann was coming no mat­ter what. She'll probably see more of Auburn than Florida State. You know how moms are." 
Bowden said he talked with Terry on Wednesday and gave him one piece of advice before his first game at the Division I­A level: "Be sure you've got that kicking game down." 
Terry, who coached the last six years at Division I-AA Samford, must have listened. Auburn kicked three field goals and averaged more than 46 yards per punt to keep the Rebels backed up. 
The only breakdown on the special teams came when Ole Miss returned a punt 77 yards for a touchdown in the final two minutes to make it close. 
Though touted as an offensive wizard like his father, Terry Bowden was conservative in his first game. The Tigers threw for only 79 yards and did most of their damage with a hard­nosed running game and a sti­fling defense. 
''I'm not pretending to be Bobby Bowden," he said. "There were times when I wanted to go for the big play, but the game just didn't call for it." 
That's just fine with the elder Bowden. He said his son has to establish his own identity. 
"We're really a lot different," he said. "He's a lot more of a detail person than I am. I'll hire someone else to do my detail work. I think that's one thing he'll learn eventually. You've got to give more responsibility to other people. But he's young and he's got a lot of energy." 
Terry Bowden ready for Auburn debut 
Associate Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
Mike O'Cain will be coaching football Saturday night. Right now, he's playing 20 questions. 
O'Cain, the successor to N o r t h Carolina State's Dick Sheridan, will begin his head coaching career this weekend when he takes Par Dye

the 24th­ranked Wolfpack into its season opener against Purdue. Already, he's had to confront some problems that might dim the spotlight. 
Defensive tackle Carl Reeves, a 225-pounder who made up for his lack of size with aggressive play and quick­ness. broke a bone in his leg in last week's scrimmage and is out for the year. John Akins, also a tackle, has been strug­gling with a sore shoulder and isn't likely to play against the Boilermakers. 
With a depleted defensive line, one of O'Cain's moves was to switch Loren Pinkney, a 205­pound outside linebacker, to Reeves' position. 
"We don't know how effective he will be at that new position," O'Cain says. "He has the ability and the same size as Carl. We have to get our best 11 guys out there." 
Any film the Wolfpack has watched in preparing for Purdue's offense isn't much good, either. Starting quarter­back Matt Pike is facing disci­plinary action after his arrest last Sunday for underage drink­ing at a fraternity party. It's not known whether Pike will miss the entire game, or give way to sophomore Rick Trefzger, who has yet to take a snap in a game. 
Purdue went 4-7 last year 
LAST CHANCE! 
and is being projected to do worse this season under coach Jim Colletto. O'Cain chooses to ignore that notion. 
"I know every football coach that faces a team says they were a good football team last year," O'Cain said. "But they played tough against Michigan. In the first half, they stuffed Michigan. They played them about as good as anybody in the country." 
Purdue lost 24-17. and that's enough to have O'Cain preaching respect and concen­tration to the Wolfpack. 
"I think our football team sees the same things we do (on film)," he said. ''I'm not going to oversell anybody to our foot­ball team. If they are a team we should beat, I'll tell them. But I don't think there is anybody on our schedule that if we don't do the right things. they can't beat us." 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1994-95 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7-7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 
Bowden said he is confident his 37 -year-old son, one of the youngest coaches in Division I, is ready for his new job. 
"He's spent all his life watch­ing me," the Florida State coach said. "He's done all he can do, all it takes to get here. Still, he's got a lot to learn." 
The Bowdens are the first father and son to coach in Division I at the same time. Bobby Bowden said he hoped to eventually see his other two coaching sons -Tommy is an Auburn assistant and Jeff is on the staff at Southern Mississippi -follow in Terry's footsteps. 
''I'm excited about it," he said. ''I'm also anxious for my other sons to make it. If they keep working hard, I'm sure they'll be in the same boat. They've got the right stuff, too." 

Florida State head coach Bobby Bowden readily admits the pride he has for his son Terry who takes over the Auburn football team this 
The English Department 
is pleased to offer a new course: 
Course Call #5314 English 333-02 
ARTHURIAN LEGEND 
L. Martin 
MWF 2:20-3:10 351 DeBartolo 
WELCOME FANS Come Join Us At 

•Breakfast served all day 
•Lunch •Dinner 
•Or a snack ANYTIME 
OPEN 
>
24 HOURS < ai 
ltl 
0
1710 E CD 
....
N. Ironwood 0'z CD 

277-7400 

j
I . 
Friday, September 3, 1993 The Obst:rver • SOCCER page 29 
Men 
continued from page 32 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 
·They're poised to strike. The Notre Dame men's soccer team travels to the Addidas-Met 
Life Classic in Bloomington this weekend to open a rugged reg­ular-season schedule. 
It has been an interesting preseason for the Irish, begin­ning at midnight on August 20 with the first ever Midnight Madness Blue-Gold scrimmage. 
It was the first step on their quest to prove that they belong among the nation's elite. 
• j
On the edge of greatness the last two seasons, the Irish are set to emerge on the national scene. 
"We're a, dark horse and peo­ple know that," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "They respect that and fear our team." · 

Rutgers is the first opponent tomorrow at 1 p.m. It is the first meeting between the Irish and the Scarlet Knights since 1988, a game Rutgers won 2-0. 
The Scarlet Knights have been practicing since August 2, nearly three weeks longer than the Irish, due to an NCAA rule that allowed them to begin practicing ten days before a European tour. 
But Berticelli isn't worried about Rutgers. He's worried about his own team. 
"My greatest concern is not them, but us," Berticelli said. "We're so young defensively. That inexperience concerns me." 
Freshman Brian Engesser will start on the back line along with junior Dane Whitley, who is seeing the first substantial action of his career. 
The veteran of the defense is junior goalkeeper..,Bert Bader. Hobbled by a pulled hamstring and a sore ankle, Bader is still expected to start Saturday against Rutgers to begin his quest for the Notre Dame career shutout record. 
He needs five more to tie the 
school record of 22. 
Sunday, the Irish return to the field to face an improving UNLV team that was once among the nation's best. 
"They have one of their best 
--· 

teams in years," Berticelli said. "They fell off in the past couple of years because they lost some key players, but people are real high on their potential this year." 
One advantage for the Irish is that they will have a chance to scout the Runnin' Rebels on Saturday. 
The Irish are coming off a 3-2 exhibition loss to No. 2 Indiana in the fifth annual Golden Boot Classic in Indianapolis last weekend. 
some time." 
Allison Lester and Jodi Hartwig also return in the mid­field and will man the outside spots, with Guerrero and Coyne in the middle. Tiffany Thompson tounds out the start­ing unit. 

Women 
continued from page 32 
sistent," added Petrucelli. "But I am interested in seeing how they work and if they can man­tain the level they have shown in the past." 
A new addition to the defense and the third freshman starter is goalie Jennifer Renola. The California native played at a high level of competition throughout high school and has gotten high praise from Petrucelli throughout fall prac­tice. 
It shouldn't make much a dif­ference against the Explorers, but the Irish will not be a full strength for Saturday's matchup. McCarthy is still ham­pered by a pulled quadracep and backup defender Julie 
Look for our coupons every Friday in The Observer 

OUR TREATS GET THE HIGHEST MARKS! 
From parfaits to pies, from cakes to cones, the delicious frozen yogurt treats at your neighbor­hood I Can't Believe It's Yogurt• store consistently make the grade! 

Campus Shoppes 1837 South Bend Avenue South Bend, Indiana 4663 7 
(219) 271~9540 
(Just East ofND) 
r----------------------------~ 
: 50~ OFF YOUR t-tEXT : : WAFFLE COt-tEl ! 
I I 
I Pleese present coupon before ordering. One 1 I coupon per customer per visit. Offer good only I et eddress ebove. Not velid in comblnetlon with
1 1 
eny other offer. expires 9/30/93 01992, • eon•• a.1~ "".,.,...._Lid. 
Vogel will miss the game because of injury. 
"It would be nice to have Julie back because she is a solid reserve defender, but I do expect Michelle to play. She won't start but she will see 

The Observer/Jake Peters Junior Jodi Hartwig returns as a starting midfielder for the Irish this sea­
son. 
...GET INVOLVED IN THE •IW EXCITING WORLD OF hU COLLEGIATE ATHLETICS! 
Notre Dame Sports Marketing is looking for volunteers! 
We are looking for students interested in learning about athletic promotions from the inside out. 
Our students will work directly with the coaches and staffs of NO's varsity sports in developing and implementing promotions. From pre-season to tournament time, be there every step of the way in continuing the tradition of excellence of Notre Dame Athletics. 
If you are interested, contact Aimee in the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
I_-------------.---------------1 L..-.--------------------..J 
liangle Drafring Supply 
alE) !Ill
(219) 259-2459 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F BAM-5:30PM SAT 9AM-NOON 

_.,.. 
page 30 The Observer • VOLLEYBALL 
Irish await tournament's competition 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR feeling capable of winning, but order to qualify for the NCMs . ND Volleyball Wriler we realize it would be an upset Despite the emphasis put on to knock of Kentucky on its the first match of the tourney, 
Quality competition will not home floor." said head coach Brown did not dismiss either of be the only challenge for. the Debbie Brown. the next two opponents. Irish volleyball team as they The opening match against "Both Indiana and Louisville return to the Big Four Classic to UK will be the highlight of the are quality teams that will give defend their championship tournament, as both teams us a fight,"she said. there. were ranked in the preseason Indiana returns five starters 
If Notre Dame is to repeat, top-20 by Volleyball Monthly. from a team that struggled to a 
they must win three matches to "Because of the round-robin ninth place finish in the Big 
do so. This year's Classic has format," she said, "we'd prefer Ten, while Louisville fields a 
shifted from a bracket format to play them first. We need to young squad, returning only 
to round-robin. Previously only be fresh because they are the three starters. 
two victories were needed for toughest team of the field." The Irish look to win with a the championship. The Wildcats, who opened solid seven player rotation. The tournament hosted by their season with an easy 3-0 Senior co-captain Janelle the University of Kentucky touts win over Miami of Ohio, is led Karlan will direct the attack at much stiffer competition than by two star players, senior mid­setter. The outside hitting will an overmatched Valparaiso dle-blocker Eunice Thomas and be led by the junior tandem of which the Irish defeated handi­junior outside-hitter Krista Christy Peters and Nicole ly in Wednesday's opener. They Robison. Coates, both stalwarts of last will play nationally ranked and The last two meetings year's team, while freshman homestanding Kentucky on between the Midwestern pow­Jenny Birkner will add firepow­-Friday night, and then recover erhouses were gruelling five er, coming off an impressive 10 quickly for Saturday matches game matches, with the Irish kill debut against Valparaiso. against Indiana University in prevailing in last year's Notre Senior middle-blocker Molly the morning and Louisville in Dame Invitational. UK returns Stark will anchor the defense, the evening. four starters from last year's while co-captain Julie Harris "This is an important tourna­squad and should provide the will start in the back row and 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

ment for us. We are going Irish with a good gauge of substitute with serving special­
Junior Nichole Coates (front) and senior Molly Stark will play important 
down there wanting to win, and where they need to improve in ist Brett Hensel. 
roles in the Big Four Classic tournament this weekend. 
Saint Mary's opens season with high expectations 
By KILEY COBLE was individually ranked second "I think we'll do very well this Sports Wriler in the nation for number of digs year," said Martino. "We're per game. working better this year. I 
The Saint Mary's volleyball Head coach Julie Schroeder­heard North Central has a lot of team looks to begin the season Biek is hoping to increase the returning players come back, on a high note Saturday as they team's national exposure this but we should fare well against travel to Kalamazoo to go head year by increasing the number them." to head with eight other of national rankings. Complementing the experi­Division III schools for a tour­The team will be looking to enced seniors, will be a couple nament. several returners this year in of new players. Sophomore tri­
The Belles, who finished third this quest for national expo­captain Sara Stronczek, who in the tournament last year, sure. Senior Mary Wheeler is was unable to play last year anticipate strong competition one such player. According to due to a shoulder injury, will be from North Central and Carroll Schroeder-Biek, WheelElr has playing middle. This combina­College improved in her offense and tion will prove to be a strong 
The Belles finished last sea­will be a strong blocker this two person offense. son with a successful 17-12 year as well. Schroeder-Biek is also expect­record overall as well as In addition, senior tri-cap­ing strength from senior trans­achieving national rankings in tains Branstetter and Michelle fer student Erica Frietag. three categories; numbers of Martino will bring three years "We have a strong situation digs, kills and hitting percent­competitive experience to the here with these young and old age. Senior Kim Branstetter game. players," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Michigan Road
..; 
Trip 
Photo Courtest of Saint Mary's Media Information Senior Kim Branstetter leads a talented Belle's squad into the season 


opener. 
ATTENTION ALL BANDS!!! 
Notre Dame Sports Marketing is looking for bands --that's right campus bands -­who are interested in performing at men's and women's soccer and women's volleyball games. 
... 
-
If you are interested-tn "shaking down the thunder" at any of these events, please contact Aimee in the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
Catch the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan September 11th 
Round trip bus transportation to Michigan Stadium (bus leaves at 6 a.m. from CCE) Donuts and juice provided 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 7 
....-·---.... __............._._. .......____.....___ ..................
·---__.... __.._ .....-.-.. __.. __________.._____..._.__ ..___........ -............-w ..... -....._.......... --.. ·--...........___ ,...______ .~ ........ 
TODAY 
Friday, September 3, 1993 page 31 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
LET'S ASk -mE OJ\~~ BOA.RD 
AN<m\t.R 0\lt.STION 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Build a fortune &Ceiling 9Naif 3 Smooth: Mus. s Actress Munson & Author 
Ehrenburg 7 "... richer. for " 8 Vibrating vipers 
o Drama category 2 Writer Umberto 
s East, in Essen & Lampware style 7 Noted aircraft 
manufacturer 9Yoko-­
o Wheat. to Rene 
33 Come to terms 35 Irrigation contraption 37 Once more, in 
Dog patch 38 Game bird 41 Ratted 42 Indiana pro 
hoopster 44 Grandiose 46 Forage plant 47 Pretend so Bitter payback 51 Zeno's 
"classroom" 52 Legs Diamond's 
diamonds 53 Still 54 Mother of 14 
and 40 Down 
'NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
()\.\ GR£t..l 0\.llj~ I.?Ci\RD, 'tliLL l G~ \JP ID Bt.. F'l<£5\\)'i:N\ ~ 
59 Like most lunch breaks &o Impish one 64 College in Mich. &s Ross, for one && Tropical rodent 67 Euripides work 68 Baseball's Roush &9 Over 
DOWN 
1 Sight at Zermatt 2 SE Asia farmer 3 Back then 4 Famed 
marionette maker s Olympian's no-no & Phellem 7 Reddish dye a Sponsor 
BILL WAITERSON 

"Oh, this should be interesting .... Looks as if your father has forgotten about the phenomenon of windows again." 
;.q --. 
OF INTEREST 
-
9 Hull area -=+::-E+:::-i 10 A weather's antonym 11 A W.Va. senator 34 Fresh talk 
51 S.P.C.A. sa "Chacun -­
12 Kind of chair .. 
. . 3& Boniface, in candidate gout" 
14 Eunp1des Bologna 
54 Dry up, as lips &1 Ruminant's -........-=-BF.-+7-i protag~mst 39 Stein's salon 
ss Take it easy food 
E+7+.:7f"!~~H~ I!!IP.I!IIp!!lt.::-+==+=:..J.-:-1 19 Kestrel s catcher setting 
s& City on the &2 Ending for E+=+:~--.,.,.,.-r.::-t:-t':'-i-:';-lllllf.::-t=-B 21 Frome of fiction 40 Sophocles 
Colorado consul F.+:7f:':'-fl!l~t-~ 22 Sutton's forte subject 
57 Zounds! &3 Pupil's cover ~gU~~~~ 23 Catamount 43 Badger's cousin ~ 24 Science of light 45 So-so 
DINING HALL 
.,-,-+:::-+.,.~~ 28 Diminish 
48 Having a tuft of 
Get answers to any three clues
-::+.±=-!-7+;::-l 30 Fit for Mensa soft hairs 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
-:-+:~~ 31 Ad space 49 Like a beach --1,;,-'-L,....L.:;;,J 32 Aerie dweller bum 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

• 
come ~Ians 
buzz sutherland, chris "crazy legs" fonseca sunday, sept. 5 DeBartolo 101 8:00pm 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
• • stepan center ,tues.,sept 7 lottery 1-6pm 
ffilC an tix
bring up to 4 ID's 
----------""----­

-•I: ' I : 
-\ i_: 
... 
Northwestern 
vs 
Wildcats 
SEE SPORTS EXTRA 


SPORTS 
page 32 Friday, September 3, 1993 
Season opener finds men's soccer poised for success 

-

The men's ten­nis team nearly made the finals for the second year in a row at the NCAA Championships 
Chuck Coleman 
see page 23 The Irish volley­ball team heads to Kentucky to participate in a competitive round robin tournament 

see page 30 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sporrs Editor 
They're poised to strike. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team travels to the Addidas­Met Life Classic in Bloomington this weekend to open a rugged regular-season schedule. 
It has been an interesting preseason for the Irish, begin­ning at midnight on August 20 with the first ever Midnight Madness Blue-Gold scrimmage. 
It was the first step on their quest to prove that they belong among the nation's elite. 
On the edge of greatness the last two seasons, the Irish are set to emerge on the national scene. 
"We're a dark horse and peo­ple know that," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "They respect that and fear our team." 
Rutgers is the first opponent tomorrow at 1 p.m. It is the first meeting between the Irish and the Scarlet Knights since 1988, a game Rutgers won 2-0. 
The Scarlet Knights have been practicing since August 2, nearly three weeks longer than the Irish, due to an NCAA rule that allowed them to begin practicing ten days before a European tour. 
But Berticelli isn't worried about Rutgers. He's worried about his own team. 
"My greatest concern is not them, but us," Berticelli said. "We're so young defensively. That inexperience concerns 
" 
Women head to LaSalle for first 
f (( '' 
game o young season 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writers 
Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli is not bashful about revealing his strategy for tonight's season opener against La Salle. 
"We're going to attack like crazy," the fourth year coach said. "We have decided to be more aggressive this season." 
The decision by Petrucelli to go with a more attacking style this sea­son is due to the abundance of speed and talent which return or are join­ing the Irish this season. 
Sophomores Regan Coyne, Rosella Guerrero and Michelle McCarthy comprise a speedy sophomore mid­field which should wreak havoc on opposing defenses. But Petrucelli's attack is counting heavily on the per­formance of two freshman up front, Cindy Daws and Stacia Masters. 
"The freshman are coming along fine, " said Petrucelli. "They have played a high level of competition before and I am confident in them." 
The Explorers should prove to be a good opening test for the young Irish. Last season the Irish cruised to a 4-0 win over La Salle at Alumni Field, and outshot their opponents 33-5. 
"They always play us tough, and I think it is good for us to start out on the road because it gives the younger players the experience of going into a hostile environment and having to perform. 
Although the Irish shouldn't have too much trouble handling the Explorer attack, Petrucelli is anxious to see how his defense performs. 
"Defensively with Jill (Matesic) Andi (Kurek) and Ashley (Scharfl) we are pretty solid, they always are con-
see WOMEN I page29 game. 
me." 
Freshman Brian Engesser will start on the back line along with junior Dane Whitley, who is seeing the first substantial action of his career. 
The veteran of the defense is junior goalkeeper Bert Bader. 

Hobbled by a pulled ham­string and a sore ankle, Bader is still expected to start Saturday against Hutgers to 
Mike Berticelli begin his 
quest for the Notre Dame career shutout record. 
He needs live more to tie the school record of 22. 
Sunday. the Irish return to the field to face an improving UNLV team that was once among the nation's best. 
"They have one of their best teams in years," Berticelli said. "They fell oil' in the past couple of years because they lost some key players, but people are real high on their potential this year." 
One advantage for the Irish is that they will have a chance to scout the Hunnin' Hebels on Saturday. 
The Irish are coming off.a 3-2 exhibition loss to No. 2 Indiana in the fifth annual Golden Boot Classic in Indianapolis last weekend. 
It was a tough loss, but there 
see MEN I page 29 

. " · 

~-~ ·-----~-----------------------------...... 

Notre Dame vs. Northwestern 
(0-0-0) (0-0-0) Notre Dame Stadium. Spetember 4, 1993, 12:30 p.m. 
A New 
Chapter 
·Notre Dame and Lou Holtz 
open season surrounded by 
controversy and questions 
by George Dohrmann 
N
ine out of ten football coaches stranded on a desert island would choose Bayer to stop their headache. Notre Dame's Lou Holtz would be the lone exception. He likes headaches. 
At least is seems that way. He has had his share of them during his six years at Notre Dame. 
It began in 1988. A television broadcaster falsely reported that quarterback Tony Rice was academically ineli-gible for the upcoming season. 1989-Star linebacker Michael Stonebreaker was suspended for the season for violating his probation, which came as a result of a February drunk­driving accident. 
Sports Illustrated ran an article to 
see HEADACHES I page 6 
INSiDE 
WHO'S WHO 
A profile of each of Notre Dame's opening day starters. 
page 7 
What to look for on the field, players to watch and team ratings by position. 
pages 2 & 3 



On a scale of I to 5 

Strong arm and experience make Len Williams an ideal QB. 

Dennis Lundy starts for the third year as a solid­at-best performer. 
RECEIVERS 
[!) 
The only question here is will any one but Gissendaner catch a pass this year? 
0-LINE 
ti$1 
L:J 
O'Dwyer is solid anchor at left tackle but he is only a fifth ofan inexperienced line. 
D-UNE 
~ 
Return some experience here but not enough depth to keep Barnett from worrying. 
LINEBACKERS 
([) 
Decent experience returning, but is it enough to make a difference? 
SECONDARY 
[!] 
Sophomore Bennett is probably the best defensiv~ player for the Cats. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
w 
Gissendaner's speed is enough to offset the mediocre kicking game. 
COACHING 
[!] 
Barnett still gets the benifit of the doubt in his second year. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
Northwestern's individual talent will win some games, but not this one. 
Defense must stop big plays 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 
It's not surprising that there will be a Heisman Trophy candidate and a veteran quarterback on the field Saturday when · b ·. ·.. . Notre Dame faces Nort ...J'Q Northwestern. Offi 
What's surprising is that ·· Notre e ;, 
the~ will be, .. ··~· .i 
playmg for North-u "'·-···············,w*"'. ······" western. 
Wide receiver Lee Gissendaner-a darkhorse Heisman hopeful-and quarterback Len Williams lead an offense loaded with talented players. 
"I can't disagree with (Northwestern coach) Gary Barnett when he said that Northwestern is as talented as any team in the country at the skill positions," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. 
Despite the Wildcats' weapons, Notre Dame is heavily favored, due in large part to its defense, which returns eight starters. 
"The strength of our team is obviously our defense," Holtz said. "I'm pleased with the progress we've made." 
Saturday, the spotlight will shine on the secondary, which must contain Gissendaner, who caught 68 passes for 846 yards a year ago. A strong performance against the Irish would thrust Gissendaner into the forefront of the Heisman race. 
The Irish secondary views that as a challenge. 
Cornerback Tom Carter is now chasing NFL receivers, but senior Greg Lane and sophomore Bobby Taylor bring a lot of experience to the position. 
Taylor started seven games as a freshman and broke up nine passes to tie for the team lead. Lane was fifth on the team in tackles in 1992, collecting 57, including eight against Northwestern. 
Senior captain Jeff Burris and capable classmate John Covington will start at safety. Burris was an honorable mention All-American selection a year ago and Covington played in all 12 games in 1992, starting seven. 
One of the greatest strengths of the secondary is its depth. 
"We will also see Willie Clark, Brian McGee and possibly Tracy Graham," Holtz said, after naming the starters. 
Northwestern also returns talented running back Dennis Lurdy who is also a receiving threat after catching 30 passes in 1992. 
"Dennis has worked himself into a darn good Big Ten back," Barnett said. "He has developed maturity and strength and is a very confident receiver." 
The game could be won in the trenches, where Notre Dame's defense holds a strong advantage over Northwestern. 
Northwestern's running game is weak behind an inexperienced offensive line, with Williams and untested freshman Robbie Glanton providing the main threat. 
Notre Dame's strong defensive line should eliminate that threat. 
Bryant Young, Oliver Gibson, Jim Flanigan and Brian Hamilton will make up the big front four and sophomore Renaldo Wynn will start at outside linebacker. 
Starting linebackers Anthony Peterson and Pete Bereich will help stifle Wildcats' ground game. Peterson was Notre Dame's second-

Courtesy of NO Sports lnfonnalion 
Senior captain Jeff Burris leads a deep and experienced secondary against Northwestern. 
leading tackler a year ago, collecting 75 to finish behind Demetrius DuBose. 
Bereich, a second-teamer a year ago, found himself starting against Northwestern and Michigan after DuBose was suspended by the NCAA. He collected 13 tackles in those two games. 
This year, Bereich takes over DuBose's spot full-time. 
"They compliment each other very well," Holtz said of his linebackers. "Peterson holds them down until Bereich gets there." 
Northwestern is supposed to be a soft spot on Notre Dame's schedule, but the defense doesn't think so. A year ago, Northwestern rolled up 408 yards in total offense against the Irish, gaining some respect in a lopsided 42-7 loss. 
Holtz wouldn't be surprised if the Wildcats run wild again. 
"We couldn't stop them last year," he said. "And I see no reason why we should be able to stop them this year." 
Will Notre Dame's offense produce? 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Spons Editor 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz has defended himself from accusations fired f r o m 
Notre nam.e 
e v e r y 
Offense
direction . MF·· during a vs. -· d i ffi c u It Northweste P r e -Defense 
season. 
It's an uncomfortable position for Holtz. He likes to be on the offensive. 
Saturday, he'll get his chance when he's back on the sidelines for his seventh season calling plays for the Irish offense. 
It is an offense that lost four starters to the NFL, and Freshman Messiah Ron Powlus to a broken collarbone. 
But the offense is not Pow-er-Ius. 
Starting quarterback Kevin McDougal and backup Paul Failla have both shown their ability to lead the team. Failla hurt his chances for the starting position two weeks ago when he missed three practices for "personal reasons." 
Neither has played well enough to earn the job outright, but the competition for the position could keep them both at their best. 
"Kevin McDougal will start and Paul Failla will play," Holtz said. "You could see Failla in the game in the first half." 
They may not be as talented as Powlus, but 
they are certainly capable quarterbacks who understand the system. That may be enough to get the job done against Northwestern. 
The Wildcats' defense struggled in the preseason as Barnett tried to find a group that can to help the team improve last year's 
31.4  points  allowed  
average.  
"You'll  see  us  much  

more aggressive on defense this year," Barnett said. "We have added speed in a number of areas and that will allow us to be more aggressive in our play calling." 
Free safety William Bennett is the top returning defender. Strong safety Kerry Singleton is an imposing hitter, and linebacker Steve Ostrowksi was among the Big lO's leading tacklers in 1992. 
But Barnett still has some defensive decisions to make. 
"We're trying to fit the pieces of the puzzle together," Barnett said. "We need to find the combination of 11 players that is most effective." 
They will have to be especially effective against the Irish offense, which boasts an experienced receiving corps and a group of talented but untested running backs. 
Lake Dawson, Derrick Mayes, Mike Miler and Clint Johnson will share time at receiver and tight end Irv Smith hopes to carry on the All-American tradition of his predecessors Derek Brown and Irv Smith. 
Tailback Lee Becton and fullback Ray Zellars will start in the backfield. But Holtz could use as many as six running backs against Northwestern, with senior Dean Lytle and freshmen Marc Edwards, Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer expected to see action off the bench. 

Kinder and Edwards have played particularly well in the preseason. 
"(Kinder) has progressed well. He's as far along as any great back we've had at this stage," Holtz said. "We want to see him and Marc Edwards in a game situation." 
Northwestern's experienced defensive line will combat the Irish running attack. 
Nose guard Nick Walker returns after collecting 14 tackles for losses in 1992. 
Defensive  ends  John  
Hellesbusch  and  Larry  
Curry  also  bring  
experience  to  the  

defensive line. 
Notre Dame counters with an offensive line that has both quality players and question marks. 
Tackles Aaron Taylor, Todd Norman are proven stars and center Tim Ruddy returns to anchor the line. 
The question marks are at guard where sophomores Will Lyell and Dusty Zeigler will start. Junior Mark Zataveski and senior Mike McGlinn could also see time at guard. 
"Taylor, Ruddy and Norman ·will give us a solid offensive line," Holtz said. "But we are still unsettled at the guard position." 
Unsettled is a good word to describe the entire Irish offense. The only thing more unsettled is the Northwestern defense. 
On a scale of I to 5 

One point each for McDougal and Failla due to inexperience. 
RUNNING BACKS 

Becton and Zellars are not the big-play threats like their predecessors. 
RECEIVERS 

Dawson, Mayes, Johnson and Miller. Not exactly the Four 
Horsemen, but talented. 
0-LINE 

Taylor, Ruddy and 
Norman are a solid returning nudeus,but questions remain. 
D-UNE 

Young, Flanigan, 
Gibson and Hamilton are a fearsome from four. 
LINEBACKERS 

is slow and 
Peterson can't cover the pass, but they complement each other. 
"SECONDARY 

Deep and 
experienced. Only defensive line is stronger for Irish. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 

Inexperienced kickers and inconsistent returners. 
COACHING 
t~Ai£4
L:J 
Off-the-field problems will distract Holtz, but not enough 
to lose his edge. 

Distractions in Irish preseason camp could make for a closer game than anticipated. 
-----~--------------~-------~-----~~­


Gissendaner hyped for Heis1nan perfor~nance 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Lee Gissendaner is Northwestern's hidden Heisman hopeful, playing in the shadows of the big name players at the big name schools. 
He's hoping to prove this sea­son that it is possible to rise from the darkness of the Big Ten basement to the bright lights of the Downtown Athletic Club. 
A fleet wide receiver with big­play potential, Gissendaner opens his Heisman Trophy campaign Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
He burst onto the national scene year ago afte catching 68 p for 846 yards and leading the natio with a 21.8 pun return average. 
That pe earned him most valuable honors over a pool of talented competition. He also won the Chicago Tribune's Silver Football Trophy, given to the Big Ten's best player. It was the first time a Northwestern player had re­ceived that honor since 1970. 
This year he may be even better. 
"Lee possesses all the talent and ability to be the best in the nation at what he does," Northwestern coach Gary Barnett said. "But above that, 
Photo courtesy of Northwestern Sports Information 
Gissendaner's leaping touchdown grab in the final seconds lifted Northwestern past Illinois 
in 1992. 
e's totally 
don his 
ission. He 
as taken 
teps in the off-season to reach a higher level. He has improved his speed dramatically and he's also picked up strength." 
Barnett won't go so far as to say Gissendaner deserves the Heisman Trophy. He under­stands that the award is based on performance not potential. 
"Lee has put himself in a po­sition to be in the limelight and become a nationally known player," Barnett said. "Now it's up to him and his teammates to go out and capitalize on that." 

Saturday offers a perfect op­portunity, maybe the best he will have all season, to boost his Heisman stock. 
Publicity is a Heisman candi­date's best friend. 
Northwestern doesn't get too many chances to play on na­tional television, and if Gissendaner can play well against a tough Irish defense, he will find himself among the leaders for college football's most coveted prize. 
He played well against the Irish last year, catching four 
passes for 55 yards and running for a 14-yard touchdown. 
Holtz expects similar problems with Gissendaner and the rest of the Wildcat offense this season. 
"We couldn't stop them last year, and I have no reason to believe that we can stop them this year," he said. 
Notre Dame has the tools on defense to stop a player of Gissendaner's calibre, but he realizes that Saturday may be his best opportunity to climb out of the darkness and cast his own shadow on th!} rest of the Heisman field. 
~ 
' 
OTHERS TO WATCH 

·r::·---. 
Len Williams (12): Posis an outstanding 128.9 career passing efficiency mark over three-years as a starter. 

Matt O'Dwyer (70): The 6-5, 294 pound left tackle was the strongest player on last season's squad and could garner some post-season honors. 
--... 

William Bennett (20): Bennett is the only sophomore in a group o seven returning defensive starters. The defensive back was a second-team Freshman All-American. 

beat northwestern 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 27 Northwestern 3 
ITILcrte-NightSPedaill rl -------, r-PartyP";c'k-, ~...,.-.,.-~.,..,.,.....,.,~~~~ 
9 p.m.-close 2--14" Large I : 4.-14" Large : I 1--14" Large II !Topping Pizzas : 1 1 Topping 1 : 1 Topping Pizza : : $1195 +Tax II Pizzas 1 
$595 $2295
I II II I
+Tax +Tax 
.Additional Toppings .95¢ each ~-~ .Additional Toppings 95¢ each M.s.I .Additional Toppings .95¢ each I
~-
INot Valid With Any Other Coupon .J INot Valid With Any Other Coupon .J INot Valid With Any Other Coupon .J 
~------­
Fast 

~-------~------­
Hot • Perfect 
-
The Most Popular Number on Campus! 
w 
WILDCATS N 
.NORTHWESTERN WILDCATS 
·:··\·'~993 ROSTER 
~ble WR 6·0 .~bii::,GJI&endaner WR 5-9 3,· ·,......,rigbt WR 5-4 . -! B. J. Winfield DB 6-0 
S. Dwloht Brown DB 6-0 179 Jr. 
6. 
Mike Wright DB 5-10 184 Sr. 

7. 
Milul Senters WR 6-1 178 Sr. 

8. 
Glenn Winship OB 6-0 184 So. 

9. 
Brian Ballarini WR 6-3 202 Jr. 10. Steve Schnur QB 6-1 190 So. 11. Nick HOJgorsen QB 6·3 195 Jr. 12. Len Williams QB 6-0 215 Sr. 13. Eric Scott WR 6·1 180 Fr. 13. Aaron Roseberry WR 5·8 153 Sr. 14. PIWI Burton P 5-11 184 So. 15. RadneyRay DB 5·11181 Jr. 16. Chris Hamdorf QB 6-3 190 Fr. 17. Cfiris M!lrtin DB 5·9 172 So. lB. Brian Leahy PK 5-8 169 Sr. 19. Cfruck Roeinson RB 5-8 163 Jr. ~. William Bennett DB 6-1 195 Sr. 21. Clmles.Jones WR 5·10 177 Sr. 22. Phil Burton DB 5·8 188 Sr. 


23. Billy Greenwald FB 6-1 233 Sr. 
2.4. Robbie Glanton RB 5·10 185 Fr. 
25. EricTresslar WR 6-0 174 So. 26.. Brian Mtlsso WR 6-0 175 Fr. 2l. Sam-Valenzisi PK 5-6 156 Jr. 
28. Mark Canty FB 5-8 225 Sr. 
28. 
Chris Rooney DB 5-8 186 So. 

29. 
Gunnar Clancey DB 6·3 203 So. 

30. 
Lentwan Smith DB 5-11 190 Fr. 

31. 
H. lsmaeli DB 6-0 196 Fr. 

32. 
Anthony Purkett DB 5-8 170 Sr. 

33. 
John Newton DB 5-11 201 Sr. 

34. 
Dennis Lundy RB 5-9 187 Sr. 

35. 
Hugh Williams LB 6-0 245 Sr. 

36. 
Milton Billups DB 6-3 184 Jr. 

37. 
Mark Ruddy OLB 6-2 229 Sr. 

38. 
Korey Singleton DB 6-1 208 Jr. 

39. 
Tyler Platt RB 6·2 211 So. 

40. 
Chad Lilly DB 6·1 201 Jr. 

41. 
Leonard English DB 6-0 189 Jr. 

42. 
Bobby Jackson FB 6·2 236 Sr. 

43. 
Mike Golarz LB 6-0 233 Sr. 


43. 
Mark Spencer DB 5-9 187 So. 

44. 
Darnell Clark LB 6·0 223 Sr. 

45. 
Mike McGrew LB 6·0 211 So. 

46. 
Keith Lozowski LB 6-2 225 Fr. 


WILDCAT OFFENSE 
WILDCAT DEFENSE 
47. 
Geoff Shein OLB 6·2 220 Jr. 

48. 
T. Waterman WRB 6-2 195 Fr. 

49. 
Eric Collier DB 6-2 206 Fr. 

50. 
Danny Sutter LB 6-2 226 So. 

51. 
Pat Fitzgerald LB 6-4 230 Fr. 

52. 
Tim Scharf LB 6-2 220 Fr. 53 Steve Ostrowski LB 6-0 225 Sr. 55 Brian Zeeb LB 6-2 227 Jr. 56 Jason Walker OLB 6-3 225 Fr. 57 Rob Johnson C 6-4 272 Jr. 58 Bill Koziel DL 6-1 265 Jr. 59 Jason Donnell LB 6-3 218 So. 60 Jason Wendland OT 6-4 290 So. 61 Justin Chabot OT 6-6 263 So. 62 Ryan Daniels OL 6-5 265 Fr. 63 Fran Cassidy C 6-2 261 So. 64 Brian Harpring C 6-3 267 Jr. 65 Todd Pawlowski OG 6-5 279 Jr. 66 Graham Gnos OL 6-3 276 So. 67 John Olsen LB 6-2 213 So. 68 Mike Warren OLB 6-5 246 Jr. 70 Matt O'Dwyer OT 6-5 294 Sr. 72 Kevin Peterson OT 6-4 276 So. 74 Paul Janus OL 6-5 260 Fr. 75 Ryan Padgett OG 6-3 278 So. 76 Todd Baczek OT 6-3 285 Sr. 77 Chad Pugh OG 6-3 278 So. 78 Brian Kardos OG 6-5 277 So. 79 J. Hellebusch DT 6-3 280 So. 80 Steve Shrine OLB 6-6 232 Sr. 81 Jon Burns TE 6-6 220 fR. 82 Bobby Kannady TE 6-6 248 Jr. 83 Darren Drexler TE 6-6 238 So. 84 Shane Graham TE 6-6 254 So. 85 Larry Guess WR 6-3 185 Fr. 86 Dave Beazley WR 5-9 180 So. 87 Luther Morris TE 6·4 229 Jr. 88 Kejaun DuBose DL 6-3 250 Fr. 


89. 
Larry Curry DT 6-4 263 So. 

90. 
Kirk Langbehn OLB 6-5 236 Jr. 

91. 
Nick Walkerq NG 5-10262 Jr. 

92. 
Mike Giometti OLB 6·3 227 So. 

93. 
Casey Dailey POLB6-4 210 Fr. 

94. 
Joe Reiff DT 6-4 260 So. 

95. 
Matt Rice OLB 6-3 245 Fr. 

96. 
Ray Robey DL 6-4 265 Fr. 

97. 
Scott Hauser DT 6·4 258 Sr. 98 Conrad Jones TE 6-3 239 Sr. 99 Kyle Smith OLB 6·6 236 Jr. 


1ne Observer/Brendan 
TE Luther Morris Jr. T Todd Baczek Sr. G Ryan Padgett So. QB Len Williams Sr. c Rob Johnson Jr. G Todd Pawlowski Sr. T Matt O'Dwyer Sr. WR Mike Senters Sr. WR Chris Gamble Sr. WR Lee Gissendaner Sr. RB Dennis Lundy Jr. 
X X X X X X X X X X X 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
T Larry Curry So. NG Nick Walker Jr. T John Hellebusch Sr. OLB Mike Warren Jr. ILB Hugh williams Sr. ILB Steve Ostrowski Sr. OLB Steve Shine Sr. CB Rodney Ray Jr. ss Korey Singleton Jr. FS William Bennett Sr. CB Anthony Purkett Sr. 
GARY BARNETT 
Second season at Northwestern 
Records at Northwestern: Overall 3-8-0; on the Road 2-3-0; September games 0-3-0. 
·Career Records: Overallll-19-1; vs. Notre Dame 0-1-0. 
Previous Coaching Experience: Fort Lewis College head coach (2 seasons); Colorado Assistant Coach (8 seasons). Career Highlights: Offensive Coordinator of 1991 Colorado squad which finished 8-2-1; 20-point second half "u'""'"•'-'·"­over favored conference rival Illinois last year 
1992 SEASON STATISTICS 
Northwestern Opponent 
RECEIVING 
FIRST DOWN Rushing Passing By Penalty 
RUSHING YARDAGE Rushing Attempts Avg. Per Rush Yards Rushing Per Game 
Rushing Touchdowns 
PASSING YARDAGE Atts/Compllnt Average Per Catch Average Per Game Passing Touchdowns 
TOTAL OFFENSE Average Per Play Average Per Game Total Offensive Plays 
Fumbles/Fumbles Lost Penalties/Yards Third Down Conversions 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
No Avg TD 
Lee Glssendaner 17 22.4 1 Michael Senters 2 17.5 0 Patrick Wright 19 17.1 0 Chuck Robinson 2 13.5 0 Billy Greenwald 1 13.0 0 William Bennett 1 6.0 0 Anthony Purkett 1 3.0 0 Bobby Jackson 1 0.0 0 
PUNT RETURNS 
No Avg TD 
Lee Gissendaner 15 21.8 
3031186/10  2531147/10  David Cross  6  59  9.8  0  18  
11.6  15.0  Terry Smith  5  58  11.6  0  22  
196.8  200.5  Colby Burke  5  58  11.6  0  20  
11  19  Shane Graham  4  43  10.8  0  24  
3223  4743  Michael Senters  3  24  8.0  0  17  
4.6  6.1  Willie Undsey  1  29  29.0  0  29  
293.0  431.0  Greg Gill  1  17  17.0  0  17  
703  775  Len Williams  1  2  2.0  0  2  
16/10  1417  
55/547  53/518  
49-148  70-140  Returning players are In bold type  

Oct. 23 : Oct. 30 : Nov. 6 ( Nov. 131
Nov. 20 · 
PASSING 
Comp Att lnt Pet Yds 
Len Williams 181 286 9 63.3 2110 Nick Holgorsen 4 13 1 30.8 53 Lee Gissendaner 1 1 0 100.0 2 Matt Dzierwa 0 3 0 0.0 0 
RUSHING 
Att Yds /Car TD 
Dennis Lundy 164 688 4.2 4 Len Williams 148 119 0.8 3 Chuck Robinson 29 117 4.0 0 Terry Smith 31 96 3.1 0 Patrick Wright 6 41 6.8 1 Bobby Jackson 5 12 2.4 0 Lee Gissendaner 8 10 1.3 1 Brian Leahy 1 3 3.0 0 Nick Holgorsen 7 -12 -1.7 0 
191  250  
74  147  
102  93  No  Yds  Avg  TD  LP  
15  10  
1058  2537  Lee Glssendaner  68  846  12.4  6  70  
400  522  Dennis Lundy  30  260  8.7  0  34  
2.6  4.9  Chris Gamble  21  267  12.7  2  31  
96.2  230.6  Luther Morris  21  255  12.1  1  29  
9  30  Patrick Wright  11  175  15.9  2  35  
2165  2206  Chuck Robinson  8  58  7.3  0  10  

1993 NORTHWESTERN SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
SCORING Sept. 4i , :~ Notre Dam~ .i 12:35 Sept. 1~ . BOSTON COLlEGE 1:00 
TD FG 
Sept. 2~ WA1<E FOREST . 1:00 
Lee Gissendaner 9 0
Oct. 2 :1 .at Ohio §late .•. 1:30 
Brian Leahy 0 6 Oct. 9 :: ~ Wiston~~ 1:00 
Dennis Lundy 4 0 
Patrick Wright 3 0
Oct. 16 : MINNESOT~ l & 1:00 

. i.WDIANA at ~jinois  ' ~~ .. ·,. ,.  "' 1:00 1:00  Len Williams Chris Gamble Luther Morris  3 2 1  0 0 0  
at·M~higan Stat  /  1:00  
IOWA!,, ~~"j?  1:00  
ll~'STAl~  ,:J  1:00  

INDIVIDUAL DEFENSE  
TD  ST  A  Tot  Sacks  
11  Greg Gill  61  73  134  3-18  
0  Steve Ostrowski  79  46  125  2-14  
0  Wllllam Bennett  45  55  tOO  0-0  
0  John HeUebuscb  34  45  79  0-0  
Nick Walker  48  30  78  6-25  
Tom Christian  38  39  77  0-0  
Jason Cunningham  53  19  72  2-11  
Frank Boudreaux  30  35  65  4-22  
LP  Steve Shine  41  17  58  11-58  
Anthony Purkett  43  14  57  0-0  
56  Hugh WIIUams  29  22  51  3-42  
22  Willie Undsey  26  18  44  0-0  
27  Korey Singleton  15  25  40  0-0  
19  Danny Sutter  7  12  19  0-0  
13  Jason Green  5  12  17  0-0  
6  Billy Greenwald  8  6  14  0-0  
14  Scott Golarz  5  6  11  1-5  
3  John Newton  6  4  10  0-0  
5  Mike Wright  5  4  9  0-0  
Dwight Brown  3  5  8  0-0  
Larry Curry  3  4  7  0-0  

THE LAST TIME 
Notre Dame 42, Northwestern 7 
Leading only 14-7 at half-time the Irish rallied with four touchdowns in the second half to put the pesky Wildcats away. Northwestern Q~ Len Williams rolled up 281 yards on 26 of 40 passing against the highly favored Irish. ND got back on the ground as both tailback Reggie Brooks and Fullback Jerome Bettis rushed for over a hundred yards and a touchdown apiece. 
PAT 
0 18 0 t• 0 0 0 
lnt 
4 1 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Series record: ND leads 35-7-2 Last ND win: 1992 (42-7) Last NU win: 1962 (35-6) Last NU win at ND: 1961 (12-10) Current Series Streak: ND-12 
--~-~---------~---------------------~-------""1 
I 
I I

-
FIGHTING IRISH 


NOTRE DAME 
,Eighth year at Notr:~~ HOLTZ 
,Records at Notre Dame: Overall66-18-1; at Home 33-7-1; 
lon the Road 33-11-0; September games 19-3-1; in Bowl Games 4-2. 
FIGHTING IRISH 
Career Records: Overall182-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; vs. Northwestern 3-1-0. 
1993 ROSTER 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina State (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 
1. seasons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
2. 2. 
Career Highlights: #3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; 
3. Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset #3 
4. 5.
ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. 
6. 
7. 8.
1992 SEASON STATISTICS 9. 
Notre Dame FIRST DOWN 265 Rushing 162 Passing 90 By Penalty 13 RUSHING YARDAGE 3090 Rushing Attempts 555 Avg. Per Rush 5.6 Yards Rushing Per Game 280.9 Rushing Touchdowns 34 PASSING YARDAGE 2084 Atts/Comp/lnt 253/130/8 Average Per Catch 16.0 Average Per Game 189.5 Passing Touchdowns 18 TOTAL OFFENSE 5174 Average Per Play 6.4 Average Per Game 470.4 Total Offensive Plays 808 Fumbles/Fumbles Lost 17/11 
Penalties/Yards 61/539 
Third Down Conversions 81-150 
Third Down Percentage .540 
SCORING 
TD  FG PAT  Pts.  
Reggie Brooks  14  0  1*  86  
Craig Hentrich  0  10  44  74  
Jerome Bettis  12  0  0  72  
Lee Becton  5  0  1*  32  
Jeff Burris  4  0  0  24  
Oscar McBride  4  0  0  24  
Derrick Mayes  3  0  0  18  

Rick Mirer  2  0  0  12  
lrv Smith  2  0  0  12  
Ray Griggs  2  0  0  12  
Kevin McDougal  1  0  0  6  
Mike Miller  1  0  0  6  
Dean Lytle  1  0  0  6  
Paul Falla  1  0  0  6  
Lake Dawson  1  0  0  6  
Kevin Pendergast  0  0  5  5  
• Denotes 2pt. PAT  

PASSING 
Cmp Att lnt Pet Rick Mirer 120 234 6 .513 Kevin McDougal 8 11 1 .727 Paul Falla 2 7 1 .286 
RECEIVING 
No. Yds Avg Lake Dawson 25 462 18.5 lrv Smith 20 262 13.1 Ray Griggs 17 312 18.4 Jerome Bettis 15 239 15.9 Mike Miller 12 184 15.3 Derrick Mayes 10 272 27.2 Adrian Jarrell to 138 13.8 Clint Johnson 5 65 13.0 Oscar McBride 5 29 5.8 William Pollard 4 43 10.8 Ray Zellars 2 14 7.0 Reggie Brooks 1 24 24.0 P. Chryplewlcz 1 16 16.0 Dean Lytle 1 12 12.0 Lee Becton 1 9 9.0 
10. 
Opponent 
INDIVIDUAL RUSHING 
11.
207 85 112 
10 
1222 399 3.1 111.1 9 2377 287/206115 11.5 216.1 11 3599 4.6 327.2 786 20/8 41/379 72-249 .289 
Reggie Brooks Jerome Bettis Lee Becton Rick Mirer Dean Lytle Ray Zellars Kevin McDougal Willie Clark Charles Stafford Craig Hentrich Clint Johnson Jeff Burris Rick Lozano Tim Klusas PaulFaila Matt Johnson Mike Miller 
1993 NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
Sept. 4 NOR"lliWfSTERN Sept. 11 at Michigan, Sept. 18 MICHIGANJ>TATE . Sepf~ at Purdue ll.._ Oct. 2 ._ at Staoford Oct. 9 PITTSBURGH OcLJ!l at Brigham Young 0tt"23 SOUTHERN CAL oct,3o at Navy Ncv.13' FLORIDA STATE No~:2o~ BOSTON COLlEGE 
12:35 12:10 12:35 
TBA 
"4:30 ..14:35 
~-rsA 
12:35 12:00 :1:35 
-1~35 
11. Att Yds /Car TD LP 
12. 13. 167 1343 8.0 13 80 
14. 154 825 5.4 10 29 
14. 68 373 5.5 3 27 
15. 68 158 2.3 2 20 
16. 22 124 5.6 1 25 
16. 
26 124 14.8 1 19 
17.
11 41 3.7 1 20 
18.
4 29 7.3 0 12 
19.
11 29 2.6 0 6 
20.
1 16 16.0 0 16 
20.
1 14 14.0 0 14 
21.
7 14 2.0 3 5 
22.
4 8 2.0 0 3 
1 3 3.0 0 3 
22. 4 2 0.5 1 4 
23. 3 -2 0 4 
24. 3 -11 0 6 
25. Returning Players are In bold type 
25. 26. 26.
KICKOFF RETURNS 
27. 28.
No. Avg. TD 
29. 30.
Mike Miller 9 29.0 0 
31.
Lee Becton 4 28.5 1 Clint Johnson 8 19.0 0 
32. Reggie Brooks 3 13.0 0 
33. Jeff Burris 2 12.5 0 
34. 34. 35. 35.
PUNT RETURNS 
36. 37. 
No. Avg. TD 
38. 38. 
Matt Johnson 1 10.0 0 
39. 
C. Stafford 2 7.5 0 
39.
Mike Miller 25 6.9 0 
40. 41. 
INDIVIDUAL DEFENSE  42.  
42.  
Demetrius DuBose  ST 57  A 30  Tot 87  Sacks 1.0-12  lnt 0  43. 44.  
Anthony Peterson  50  25  75  1.0-7  0  

Derrick Mayes SE 6-1 205 So. Dan Farrell FL 6-0 164 Jr. LeShane Saddler FS 5-11194 Sr. Ron Powlus QB 6-4 210 Fr. Lee Becton TB 6-0 190 Jr. Paul Failla QB 6-2 193 Jr. Mike Miller FL 5-7 157 Jr. Dean Lytle FB 6-3 240 Sr. Clint Johnson SE 5-8 180 Sr. Jeff Burris FS 6-0 204 Sr. Adrian Jarrell FL 6-0 194 Sr. Tom Krug QB 6-5 210 Fr. Tom MacDonald SS 6-0 189 Jr~"'-" 
K. Pendergast K 5-10 168 Sr. Brian Ford K 6·4 190 Fr. Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 170 Fr. Colin Rittgers P 6-2 210 So Kevin McDougal QB 6-2 194 Sr. Chris Parenti QB 6-1 193 Sr. Brian Perry DB 6-1 205 Fr. Brian Magee SS 5-10199 So. Wade Smith QB 6-3 178 So. Anthony Swiney DB 5-11180 Fr. 
M. Andrzejewski SS 5-7 163 Jr. Cikai Champion WR 5-11170 Fr. Bobby Taylor FS 6-3 191 So. Rob Leonard KP 6-1 186 Sr. Shawn Wooden CB 5-11187 Jr. Brian Baker SE 5-10179 Sr. C. Stafford FL 5-1 0182 Jr. Brent Boznanski KP 6-3 174 Sr. Randy Kinder TB 6-1 205 Fr. Drew Marsh K 6-1 187 Sr. Mark Monahan DB 6-0 175 So. Tracy Graham CB 5-10197 Jr. Ron Hardin FB 6-2 227 Fr. John Covington SS 6-1 211 Sr. Marc Edwards FB 6-2 220 Fr. Robert Farmer TB 6-1 215 Fr. Willie Clark CB 5-10 181 Sr. Greg Lane CB 5-9 180 Sr. Brian Meter CB 5-7 152 Sr. Ray Zellars FB 5-11218 Jr. Tim Klusas TB 5·8 186 Jr. Richard Rolle WR 6-1 165 So. Jeremy Sample LB 5-11 218 Jr. Travis Davis TB 6-0 192 Jr. Rick Lozano FB 5-10189 Sr. Sim Stokes DB 6-2 200 Fr. KinnonTatum DB 6-1 195 Fr. Marcus Thorne LB 6-Q 215 So. Kevin Carretta LB 6-1 207 So. Joe Babey LB 6-2 218 So. Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 155 Jr. Alton Maiden DE 6-4 260 So. Bill Wagasy LB 6-2 224 So. Jim Flanigan NT 6-2 276 Sr. 
45. LB' S-41sh 45. Johnl.\inctt ·• Vffl:6·2 i;t79
46. Dan K4ceonrl8ll FL ;5-Hf175 ..···· 
47. Pete~er.clch 
48. 
Renaldo Wynn 

49. 
A. Peterson , , 

50. 
Greg Stec ··· 51.= Melvin Dansby 


52. G. H!ilden r ' 53, Jim Kordas . 54; Justin Gohet)li 
55. Oliver Gibson 56, s. Armbruster C.> 
56. HuntfflY Bakich 57. R.~IJ1!ki. 
57. JosephAdent ·. "" 58. JereiJIY Nau• 
59. Lance-JotirlSon · 
60. Bert Berry ~.. tB; 6-4 ·'"'"" .-..~n ... ­~"" 61. TlmRuddY -c:-s-3 -62. M. McGuUough. OG 6-3 ;; 
63. Jason BeckWlti10G 6·2 ••. 
64. 
Steve MisetiC OG 6-5 ·'266 

65. 
LyronCObbJrts LB: '6~2 >230 ··· 


66. Todd Norman or 6-6 ­67.: MarkZata~ DG·6-6 ·.' sa:.~ Jeff Riney J ·oG 6·5 69; Davi!l 011isf Of 
70. Mike McGHon OT \!ii.l! 71... Herbert Gibsoi\OT s...s...'···•:211!J-'Jr 
72. Ryan Leahy OT; 6-4 . 
73·. Mike pougltly Ol6·8 . R Willtyett· .. . ® 6•5> 75~. Aarqn Taylor O'f 6-4 ~ 
76: Jeremy AkfltS 01f"6-5 ·""''··'·"'··· · 
77. 
Dusty Zeigler OT 6-6 240 

78. 
Jordan Harter QT s~7 • 2!16' Sr.. · 

79. 
Chris Kurpeilds OL 6-7 290 fr; 

80. 
Oscar Mc!fride TE 6·5 .1 251 Sr. 


81. Rich Sauget TE 6-4 218 Jr. 82. JoeCarroll WR5-9 160 Jr. 
85. 
Robert Hughes TE 6·7 266 ·Sr. 

86. 
Ben Foos _ ... DT 6-4. .226 So. 

87. 
Lake Dawson Sf 6~1' ··to2 ':Sr. 

88. 
Leon Wallace TE 6-3 268 So. 

89. 
John Kouris TE 6-3 218 So: . 

90. 
Brian Hamilton DE 6·3 275 Sr. 

91. 
Darnell Smith DE 6·5 240' Fr. 

92. 
John Taliaferro oT 6-3 261 Jr. 

93. 
PauiGfasmanisOT 6-g;. 265 So: . 

94. 
Reggie ReurimaDT 6-3. 262 ·• Jr. 

95. 
Chris ClevengerDE H.,; 245 Fr. 

96. 
Thomas Kllight I)E 6-4 231 So. 


96. 
s. Schroffner If 5-9 1.60 Hr. 

97. 
Bryant Young OT 6-3 277 Sr. 

98. 
P. Chryplewicz TE 6-5 233,"So. • 99. Cli(fStroud DT 6-3 264''So.


Yds 1876 177 31 
TD 1 
2 2 
2 1 3 0 0 4 0 0 1 0 0 
1 
TD 
15 
3 
0 
LP 59 70 54 37 70 69 20 23 14 12 
11 
24 16 12 9 
Jeff Burris 51 22 73 0-0 5 John Covington 49 14 63 0-0 3 Greg Lane 44 13 57 0-0 0 
Karmeeleyah McGill 38 16 54 2.0-12 0 . -,.. -·-________,...
~·-~­
Bryant Young 37 14 51 7.5-64 0 IRISH 
TE
Jim Flanigan 36 15 51 3.4-20 0 
OFFENSE T
Devon McDonald 29 17 46 7.3-71 0 Tom Carter 26 14 40 0-0 5 
G Bobby Taylor 28 9 37 0-0 0 QB Brian Hamilton 22 12 34 4.0-41 0 C Brian Ratigan 17 8 25 1.5-15 1 G Pete Bereich 16 5 21 0-0 1 
T 
Nick Smith 15 5 20 0-0 0 
FL
Oliver Gibson 13 6 19 0-0 0 
SE
Brian Magee 3 14 17 0-0 0 Germaine Holden 8 1 9 0-0 0 
TB Mike Lalli 6 3 9 0-0 0 FB Rick Lozano 8 0 8 0-0 0 Ray Zellars 4 4 8 0-0 0 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
1Built in 1930 
IRISH
Capacity: 59, 075 
DEFENSE
Largest Crowd: 61, 296 (1962) NO's Stadium Record: 234-67-5 
T NG 
One of the most feared and 
·respected landmarks in 
T
football history, Notre Dame 
OLB
Stadium has been the home 
ILB 
of more National Champions 
ILB 
than any other stadium in 
OLB 
college football. 
CB , SS J FS 
L-~-~ 
Oscar McBride Todd Norman Ryan Leahy Kevin McDougal Timm Ruddy Dusty Zeigler Aaron Taylor Lake Dawson Derrick Mayes Lee Becton Ray Zellars 
Sr. I Sr. Jr. Sr. Sr. So. : Sr. Sr. So. ­Jr. . Jr. : 
u::,.,  
·~­ ~-~/  
Brian Hamilton  Sr.  
Oliver Gibson  Sr.  
Bryant Young Jim Flanigan Anthony Peterson Pete Bereich  Sr. Sr. Sr. Sr.  
Renaldo Wynn Greg Lane John Covington  So. Sr. Sr. ;  
Jeff Burris  Sr.  ~  

Bo~-~Tay_lo_r___s~ 

a WLESQ a CD a 
-COVER STORY 
Headaches 
continued from page 1 
open the 1990 season detailing supposed steroid use by Irish players, told by former offensive lineman Steve Huffman. A week before the start of the 1991 opener Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose were arrested at an ofT-campus party for alcohol consumption. 
Last season DuBose was sanctioned by the NCAA for receiving an illegal loan from an alumnus. The result was a two­game suspension placed on the starting linebacker. And 1993.. 
This year there have been enough problems to write a book. In fact, somebody did. And that's just for starters. 
"Under the Tarnished Dome" hit the stands prematurely Monday, and the pre-release reviews have been unfavorable for the Irish coach. He is ac­cused of ignoring steroid use, abusing players and staff, and of knowing a pay-for-play scam was taking place during his two years as coach at Minnesota. 
Holtz and Notre Dame were also mentioned negatively in a Sports Illustrated article on Florida State kicker Scott Bentley. The freshman was re­cruited heavily by Notre Dame and had told Irish coaches for several years that he would be coming to South Bend. But at the last minute Bentley joined the Seminoles. 
The article says Holtz screamed over the phone to Bentley, "You're not just making a four year mistake, but a 40­year mistake." The article also accused Notre Dame players of mocking Bentley for not drinking with them at a bar. 
"I think we handled things correctly," Holtz commented when asked about the recruit­ing of Bentley. He refused to comment further on the article. 
Those two things are enough 

-
to give Holtz a headache this .------------------------...
big, but his pains didn't stop at the head, and Excedrin is not the answer. 
A week before school began Holtz drove himself to the hos­pital after feeling chest pains at 2 am. The doctors couldn't find anything wrong but Holtz still wasn't sure. 
"I still feel a little pain once in a while but the doctors say it isn't the heart," said Holtz. "My father suffered a heart attack and my mother suffered a stroke, so I was concerned." 
Aspirin also wouldn't fix the broken collarbone of freshman quarterback Ron Powlus, who was billed as the savior of an inexperienced Irish offense. After a stellar fall he had moved to the forefront of the quarterback race and had Holtz drooling and dreaming. 
"To lose Ron for the year, I feel terrible. I feel terrible for the team and I feel terrible for him," stated Holtz after the in­jury was made public. "He has really been an incredible freshman." 
Holtz seemed on the verge of 
HOLTZ'S HEADACHES An overview of the pre-season problems that have surfaced the last six years A local television broadcaster falsely reports that Tony Rice will be academically ineligible for the upcoming season 

Starting linebacker Michael Stonebreaker is suspended after violating a suspension 
stemming from a February drunk-driving 
incident 
Former offensive lineman Steve Huffman 
receives $1,000 from Sports Illustrated for a 
story alleging rampant steroid use within the 
Notre Dame football program 
Irish stars Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose 

are arrested for alleged alcohol violations at an off-campus party one week before the season 
opener 
The NCAA suspends DuBose for the first two games of the season for receiving illegal loans from a Notre Dame alumnus 
Migraine (see cover story) 
The Observer/Brendan Regan
tears when discussing the loss..._________________________::__..~ 
with reporters he even went so far as to say, "This is one of the sadder says since I've been in coaching." 
Little, yellow, different. 
Holtz is little and this season is much different. For the first time people are seriously ques­tioning whether the Irish of­fense can score points, a fact which has been a given in the past. The color scheme is not yellow but green as freshmen will be forced into action early in the season. Only five starters return on offense and the de­fense lacks depth in all areas. 
Football problems are the type for which Holtz can and has found a cure in the past. This fall he has taken more of a hands on approach with the offense, and the two inexperi­enced quarterbacks, Paul Failla and Kevin McDougal, who by default are leading this team. 
"Coach has been getting on us because he expects a lot of his team and even more from his quarterback," said Failla. 
Holtz has enough problems between the hash marks to worry about. The distractions not dealing with the week's opponent only keep a coach from his job, but he has tried to remain focused. 
"This is not easy for me to do this (his silence c<;mcerning the book and the Sports Illustrated article)," Holtz said at his weekly press conference. "But I have to for our football team. I owe it to the seniors." 
The phrase"Just Lou It" used by students symbolizes the de­mand the fans have on their coach to bring them a victory. But this season the odds against Holtz on and off the field may be too great, which means the headaches will only continue. 
But Holtz may find a cure and Notre Dame might win. And if that's the case the students' might change their chant. 
"Just Nupe it." 
" 
Go IRISH! Crush Northwestern·! 
Keep the party going at our new comedy show, liThe Com dey Works, II after every game! 
Pasta . .. Burritos . .. Steaks. . . Burgers. • • THE WORKS! 
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL 
BAR&GRILL 

237-9757 
501 N. Niles Avenue 

~~­
OUTLOOK: Impressed as a freshman with acrobatic catches and solid routes; will share time with 
senior Clint Johnson. 

technique. 
DEFENSE 

LE BRIAN HAMILTON 
DATA: 6-3, 275 lb. senior 1992: 22 solo tackles, 12 ass. and 4 sacks. 
OUTLOOK: A surprise for the Irish in '92, Hamilton is now a top returner for the vaunted Irish defense. 

OUTLOOK: Peterson is a punishing hitter and a sure tackler; a prototype middle linebacker. 

CB GREG 
LANE 
DATA: 5-9, 
180 lb. senior 
1992: Started ten games, with 
OUTLOOK: A solid veteran performer, Lane has only missed one game since bursting on the scene in his second college game. 
OUTLOOK: Becton is a solid, consistent runner who has break­away capabilities; may be pushed by incoming freshman tailbacks. 
lb. senior 1992: 5 catches for 29 yards. 4 TO's. 
A'iiik'!OUTLOOK: McBride is another jewel of a tight end from Notre :~'\Dame who knows how to find the 
····end zone. 
TB LEE BECTON 
DATA: DATA: 5-11, 

190 lb.junior 1992: Ran 83 times for 435 yds. 
SS JOHN COVINGTON 
DATA: 6"1, 211 
lb. senior 1992: 49 solo 
tackles, 14 
assists,3 ints. 
x:; OUTLOOK: Covington is a former linebacker with top tackling skills; may be pushed by a speedier Willie Clark. 
LT BRYANT 
YOUNG DATA: 6-3, 277 lb. senior 1992: 37 solo 
a...tackles,14 .assists, 7.5 
sacks. 
OUTLOOK: One of the top ... tackles in the nation, Young is a .. physical specimen and an absolute 
defensive force. 
LB ANTHONY PETERSON 
DATA: 223 lb. senior 1992:50 solo tackles.25 ass. 
lb. senior 1992: 8 of 11 for 177 yds. and three TO's. 
OUTLOOK: Possibly the most popular player on the team, McDougal has what it takes to lead the Irish. 
RUDDY 
DATA: 6-3, 286 lb. senior 
::.!~:i:mic GJ;I~ ;....... !992, ~ !:!~pAil-' 
Amencan ·:, spring. ·' .., 
skills. Lombardi candidate. 
DATA: 275 lb. senior . 1992: 13 solo "-tackles, 6 assists one-half sacks. 

OUTLOOK: Gibson's physical presence has forced the Irish coaches to move Flanigan to make a spot for him at tackle. 
LB PETE BERCICH 
and five ints. OUTLOOK: A supreme athlete who plays on both sides of the ball, the tri-captain is one of the best DB's in the country. 
K KEVIN PENDERGAST DATA: 5-10, 168 lb. senior 1992: 5-6 PAT'S 
NO PICTURE AVAILABLE 
218 lb. junior 1992: Ran 26 ~times for 124 yds. OUTLOOK: Despite his receiving and blocking skills, Zellars will be pushed by Dean Lytle and Marc Edwards.  
LYELL  
DATA: 6-5, 263 lb. soph.  DATA: 6-4, 299 lb. senior  

OUTLO?K: A somewhat lan~y i OUTLOOK: Th~ strongest Irish )jg OUTL<?OK: Lyell beat out. fift~-•II; OUTLO?K: This ye_ar's consen~us •:•, guard, Z1egler makes up for h1s 'i!J player, Ruddy 1s a preseason it' year sentor Lance Johnson wtth h1s liitJAll-Amencan, Taylor 1s an offens1ve . lack of girth with outstanding · second-team All-American and a intelligence and impressive physical force and a future # 1 pick. · 
OUTLOOK: A former linebacker, Flanigan uses his quickness to punish opposing offenses . 
DATA: 6-3, 191 
lb. soph. 
1992: Started 
six games as a 
frosh, 28 solos. OUTLOOK: His impact freshman campaign has started to get him recognition on the national level. 

JOCK STRIP 
Bits and pieces froDl the week 
N
otre Dame's Fr. T h e o d o r e .....--------, Hesburgh took part in The Observer's Peerless Prognosticator this week. The well-known president emeritus was said to be consulting father Edmund Joyce on his picks. Ned and Ted are currently wor'-lng on their second bt 1k, 
George
"Gambling with Ned nd Ted." Ironically to be 
Dohrmann 
published by Sim01 & L----------' Schuzter. 
The spread for tomor1 ow's game was 28 at last check. How does Dann:• Sheridan come up with the spread? My spread is Notre Dame plus 20. I got that by adding Kevin McDougal and Paul Failla's numbers together. (I am an American Studies major). 
Freshmen, don't forget to get your The Shirt. 
Freshman Ron Powlus (The Messiah) gave a special press conference on Wednesday to talk about his injury. I have followed him around for the last three days, but have very little to report. He stubbed his toe while making a late night trip to the drinking fountain but trainers quickly dressed the wound and "the little piggy that got none" was given a clean bill of health in the morning. 
The Northwestern Wildcats are one of two teams on this year's Notre Dame schedule which the Irish student body cannot chant "We have higher SAT's" to in the event of a loss. 
Their best player is a Rocket Ismail-type performer named Lee Gissendaner who was the Big Ten's player of the year last season and a 1-leisman hopeful this year. Yet the most inspiring characteristic of Mr. Gissendaner is that he gives hope to all people not blessed with a fast, fashionable name who aspire to play wide re­ceiver. It doesn't take a name like James Jett or Lynn Swann to catch a pass. 
Northwestern fans shouldn't have anything to boast about, unless you consider the chant, "We have a medical school and you don't" imposing. 
Do you have one of those The Shirts yet? 
Last time the Wildcats beat Notre Dame was in 1962. Ironically Ara Paseghian was roaming the sidelines for Northwestern at the time. "If you can't beat em, steal their coach away," were words to live by back in those days. 
Quarterback Len Williams passed for 2,110 yards last season (100 more than a space odyssey). A large chunk of those yards came against Notre Dame, which looked a hitchhiker watching so many passes. 
Northwestern head coach Gary Barnett is one of the few coaches on the Division I level who chooses to wear a golf visor instead of a baseball cap. I'm not sure of Barnett's golfing skills but opposing teams should lower their handicap as they tee off on his defense which has more holes than Pebble Beach. 
The new The .Shirt is really cool. 
Notre Dame 34 -Northwestern 14. Defense ins ball games. (Luckily, that's the one thing we do have). 
And lastly, you can bet your room and board that quarterback situation will still be unsettled on Sunday. Call Lou and give him you choice. Mine's Bryant Young-would you sack him? 
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
DESIGN: George Dorhmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan PRODUCTION: Kevin Hardman WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Brian Kubicke, Jon Jensen PHOTOS: Jake Peters 
Duke next victim for Florida St. 
Saturday's Games of Interest 

NO. 1 FLORIDA ST. VS. DUKE 
Charlie Ward and Co. carry their travelling show to Atlantic Coast Conference rival Duke in a game that should be just about as interesting as the Seminoles' 42-0 drubbing of Kansas a week ago in the Kickoff Classic. 
Ward hopes to pad his 1-leisman Trophy-caliber stats and all-purpose superstar Tamarick Vanover could add to his quickly rising status. 
Florida State hammered the Blue Devils a year ago 48-21 in its first ever ACC game behind 269 yards passing and 84 rushing yards from Ward. 
The Seminoles defense, expected to be the team's only weakness, proved it could hold its own last week against Kansas with a stunning 12-play goal line stand. Six of those plays were inside the one-yard line and the Jayhawks came away scoreless. 
NO. 3 MICHIGAN VS. WASHINGTON STATE 
Coming off a strange 9-0-3 season and Rose Bowl triumph, Michigan opens its season against the Bledsoe-less Cougars, who finished 10-3 in 1992, including a Copper Bowl win over Utah. 
Michigan's first year quarterback Todd Collins may not have the talent of his predecessor Elvis Grbac, but he has speedy wide receiver Derrick Alexander and 
tailback Tyrone Wheatley to make him look like a superstar. 
Washington State also throws a new quarterback into the fire this season. Mike Pattinson takes over the lead role after two years as an understudy to the NFL's No. 1 draft pick Drew Bledsoe. 
Pattinson's supporting cast isn't quite as strong as Collins'. 
A Rose Bowl bid is the best Michigan can hope for, but the Wolverines are smelling more than roses as the 1993 season begins. 
Their sights are set on becoming 

the first national champion from Derrick Alexander 
the Big Ten conference since 1968. 
NO. 12 WASHINGTON VS. NO. 15 STANFORD 
Bill Walsh gave Washington all the motivation they needed late this summer when he characterized the Huskies' program as out of control and devoid of integrity. 
Maybe he was right. 
The Pac-10 handed Washington some severe sanctions that caused long-time head coach Don James to resign in disgust about the treatment of his program. 
Right or wrong Walsh and the Cardinal will have to be at the top of their form to defeat a Washington team that believes it has a score to settle with its Pac­10 rival. 
Stanford continued its rise to national prominence last season, ·finishing 8-5, including 33-16 
win over Notre Dame. 
Washington has been the cream of the Pac-1 0 crop for several years. making three straight Rose Bowl appearances and sharing the national championship with Miami in 1991.
Bill Walsh 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Northwestern at #7 Notre Dame 
Each week the Observer sports staff and a guest pick their winners for the week's top football match-ups. Please no betting.· 
Jen Marten Jason Kelly Fr. Theodore George Dohrmann Hesburgh 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Penn State Washington Stanford Stanford Washington Washington Stanford Boston College Miami Miami Miami Miami Miami Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Michigan Southern Cal Houston Southern Cal Southern Cal Southern Cal 
Notre Dame 
Southern Cal Texas A&M TexasA&M TexasA&M TexasA&M TexasA&M
TexasA&M Purdue N.C. State N.C. State N.C. State N.C. State
N.C. State Miss. State
Miss. State Miss. State Miss. State Miss. State Miss. State Baylor Baylor Fresno State Baylor Fresno State Fresno State BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU 
Minnesota #17 Penn State #15 Stanford at #12 Washington #4 Miami (Fla.) at #20 Boston College Washington State at #3 Michigan Houston at Southern Cal LSU at #5 Texas A&M Purdue at #24 N.C. State Memphis State at #23 Miss. State #25 Fresno State at Baylor #19 BYU at New Mexico 



Jon Jensen Brian Kubicki 






