~~-----~' -------------~ 
,-~ 


By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
It has been dubbed the Catholic Woodstock-and with the Notre Dame Folk Choir on the scene, it is no wonder. 
The folk choir is not just about singing traditional Church hymns, explained the group's director Steven Warner. And the papal visit to Denver this August for World Youth Day was not just about Church doctrine and struc­tured belief. 
With over 180,000 young people from across the globe screaming their welcome to the Holy Father and clapping to the diverse selection of music offered, Warner de­scribed the 10-day event as "one enormous block party for Catholics all over the world." 
His choir of 40 Notre Dame students and 25 folk choir alums seemed to agree. 
"We rocked the place," said graduate student Lisa Van Heldorf, describing the final piece of music at the Papal Mass where the choir broke into the Gospel version of "Hail Holy Queen" as per­formed in the Whoopie Goldberg movie "Sister Act." 
"The thing that was won­
derful about this week was 
that there was no preten­
tiousness about anything," 
said Warner. "The whole 
point was that there is no 
problem with having fun and 
just enjoying yourself with a 
whole bunch of other people." 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir 
was among nine choirs this 
summer to join in the celebra­
tion of the World Youth Day 
Conference in Denver. 
Highlights of the group's 
excursion included the papal 
welcome at Mile High Stadium 
and the Papal Mass at Cherry 
Creek Reservoir. 
At Mile High Stadium, the 
choir joined 100,000 people to 
greet the Holy Father as he 
descended upon the crowd of 
cheering, chanting Catholics 
waving flags from the various 
nations they represented. 
"I never thought that the 
moment could be so moving," 
see CHOIR/ page 12 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
In response to Saint Mary's College student's requests for more convenient service hours for the campus Dining Hall, Marriott Food Service is extending its hours to 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. this year. 
Marriott will be better able to accommodate student's busy schedules, create a common gathering space and allow in­creased opportunities for work study for students, according to Food Service Director Kevin Kirwan. 
"I am excited about the ex­tended hours because as a din-

Professors: media distorts papal message 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Assistant News Editor 
Although the American me­dia portrayed the pope's visit to the United States in a nega­tive light by focusing on divi­sive issues like abortion, birth control, and AIDS, the World Youth Day in Denver was a positive and unifying event, according to Ralph Mcinerny, Grace Professor of Philosophy. 
"I guess that's the risk you take when you make a trip a media event," Mcinerny said. "The media distorted some of his (the pope's) remarks, but I don't think it got in the way­people were overwhelmed by the whole experience," he said. 
Problems of the church tend to take center stage in the me­dia, because positive news does not generate the same kind of headlines that negative issues do, according to Lawrence Cunningham, chair 
see MEDIA I page 12 

Photo Courtesy of Jeanne Curran 
Around 180,000 people brave temperatures in the 90s to celebrate the Papal Mass in Denver. The Mass lasted about four hours. The folk choir was one of 9 choirs from across the nation present to perform. 
TARNISHED?
SMC extends dining hall service 

ing hall student employee, it helps avoid the 6:30 p.m. ath­letic team rush while we are trying to close down," said Le Mans Hall sophomore Sonya Wilson. "This will eliminate that problem. In addition, it seems that more students work more hours so this helps us earn more through work study." 
This new service format, called Carte Blanche, is a grow­ing trend among the colleges and universities served by Marriott. Already, Saint Mary's is one of three other Midwest schools to increase its hours. 
"We (Marriott) are shifting our thoughts of dining halls to 
victimized by burglaries 
By JULIE BARRETT News Writer 
Several Notre Dame students living off-campus have already reported break-ins and bur­glaries of their new residences 
• see security tips I page 8 
since their return to school last week. 
Three burglaries occurred in the Lafayette townhouse com­plex on N. Frances St., one be­tween the hours of 11 and 12 on Saturday night with police out front patrolling the area and a party next door. 
"Our basement window in the back of the house was kicked in, and they just reached in and removed the bar jamming the window and came in," said Kathy Campbell, who is one of five NO seniors living in the townhouse. 
A VCR and some stereo equipment were stolen. 
Another unit four numbers down had been broken into around 3:30 a.m. the night be­fore about 20 minutes after the residents had gone to bed. 
"A friend noticed our front door open and came over to find that our place had been robbed," said Kristen Lefere who was there asleep along with one of her roommates and her roommate's mother. 
Lefere said she remembers 
locking all the doors and set­
ting the alarm, but the alarm 
failed to go off when the bur­
glar or burglars crowbarred 
the door off its hinges. 
A VCR and stereo were also 
taken. 
According to Chris Matteo of 
Matteo Enterprises who owns 
the complex, the alarm mal­
function was the fault of the 
company that installed it, and 
the students in the other inci­
dent had not set their alarm. 
A third unit was reported 
broken into earlier in the week 
with several valuables reported 
stolen, according to Chuck 
Hurley of Notre Dame Security. 
"There has never been any­thing like this before," Matteo said. "The police believe that 
see BURGLARIES I page 8 
more like shopping malls. Like a retail environment, they offer 
A long-awaited book by 
a variety of selections and try to specifically cater to their cus­authors Don Yaeger and tomers," Kirwan said. Doug Looney blasts Head 
"In this same way we are 
Football Coach Lou Holtz 
trying to accommodate stu­
for allegedly abusing play­
dent's non-traditional eating 
ers and staff and turning
schedules. By keeping the Dining Hall open longer during his back on widespread the day we hope to accomplish ·.·steroid use. The book, 
, this," he added. 
released yesterday, accuses 
Carte Blanche is a continua­
Notre Dame of lowering its 
tion of last years "Renaissance" 
1-.-;t.·~--..rr\.-.•--11111 standards to regain its win-
program to improve the dining hall, according to Kirwan. This program is aimed to give the Dining Hall a less institutional 
• see page 28 stainless steel look and make it 
see MEALS I page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN ANCE 
Students tnust make colloquy their ow-n 
Last May, Notre Dame-------­
president Edward Malloy delivered prophecy to the University communi­ty. 
But on the day Monk chose to release the final report of the Colloquy for the Year 2000, most of the Notre Dame family was busy, celebrating graduation and the late arrival of spring in Michiana. Few read and 
a.bsorbed the colloquy's published conclu­sions, a document which will shape the future of Notre Dame. 
Presented as a special edition of the Notre Dame Report, which few undergraduates have ever seen and fewer have read, the col­loquy's 43 recommendations-which range from the expansion of Notre Dame Stadium to continuing development of the University's graduate programs-were drawn up as a blueprint for the Notre Dame of the next cen­tury. 
And barring an outcry from undergradu­ates, who have the potential to be the most vocal members of the Notre Dame family, those recommendations will become the truth of Notre Dame in the near future. Two thou­sand is only six and a half years away, and the changes which the colloquy has pre­scribed will be upon us sooner than that. 
Though Malloy leaves the door to debate open, Notre Dame's undergraduates know nothing of the document. And there cannot be any discussion of the colloquy without knowl­edge of what the colloquy is or what it pro­poses to do. 
Much of what was printed in the colloquy's final report was simply formality; a rubber stamp on long-assumed aspects of Notre Dame's future. That the football stadium would be expanded should have been a fore­gone conclusion at a University which milks athletics for as much revenue as Notre Dame does. The final report suggests that over fifty percent of Notre Dame's faculty should be Catholic. This recommendation received the most criticism throughout the colloquy pro­cess, much of it printed in The Observer but all of it from faculty and administration ~em­bers themselves. Few students (none of them undergraduates) were familiar enough with the colloquy to engage in the discussion. 
But the student community at Notre Dame, undergraduates and graduates alike must realize the bare truth that Notre Dame ~II be ours longer than it will be theirs. The Notre Da~e ~f those who wrote the colloquy is a Umversity of the past. Our Notre Dame is that of the future. 
It is our responsibility as students to make sure that the Notre Dame which will be a part of our lives for the next half-century is the o~e which we want. We should not stand by, with one hand tickling a rosary and the other a beer, and watch the past generation make Notre Dame something which we do not want Notre Dame to be. 
.But without an undergraduate familiarity with the colloquy, Monk's prophecy will sure­ly come true. The generation of the future which should be making decisions about Notre Dame's next century, will be con­demned to fate, instead of making its own choice. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech John Lucas David Hungling 
Mike O'Hara Production Sports Cheryl Moser Jason Kelly Kachie Young 
George Dohrmann Accent Viewpoint Kenya Johnson Rolando de: Aguiar Graphics Brendan Regan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday cxcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All n:producrion righ!S are reserved. 
Rolando de Aguiar Viewpoint Editor 

NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather<R> forecast for noon, Monday, Aug. 30. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for !he day. 
FRONTS: 
,............-.............. ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C I 993 Accu·Weather, Inc. 
Pmssure 
H L a ~ [TI] 0 IZl 81l -!) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Dallas 98 n New York 85 71 Jerusalem 97 75 Paris 72 52 
H L 
Arlington Hts. 92 70 London 70 59 Philadelphia 91 71Atlanta 94 74 Los Angeles 82 67 Rome 79 72Boston 80 66 Madrid 81 55 Seattle 82 57Chicago 90 70 Minneapolis 72 64 Washington, D.C. 93 74Columbus 94 70 
Moscow 57 50 

Hurricane Emily is slowly heading towards the Southern coast as it churns in the Atlantic. Residents from Delaware to the Carolinas are bracing for the storm touching ground in the near future. See related story on Page 10. 

new rules a~e specific ab.out how much companies can charge for basic cable service -over-the-air broadcast stations and educational, government and public access cable channels. The formulas for figuring those rates are based on the number of subscribers; there is no one nationwide charge for basic cable. Additional channels, su~h as CNN and the Weather Channel, though not as stnctly regulated, must be reasonably priced. If a cable company is offering a cut-rate basic service subsidized by much higher prices for additional channels: basic rates could go up while those other channel prices come down, the FCC says. Premium channels are not covered by the law. 
Family defends Jackson 
LOS ANGELES Hours after Michael Jackson postponed a Singapore con­ce:t because of illness, his family gathered thousands of miles away to defend him against 
. child molestation allegations. "I'd like to let the world know that I'm behind my son and don't believe any of this stuff that's being written about him," Jackson's mother, Katherine said at a news conference originally called to promote a Jackson family TV special. Others in attendance Monday were Jackson's father, Joseph, his brothers Jermaine and Tito and sister Rebbie. Those absent included Jackson's sister LaToya, who is estranged from the family, and his sister Janet, who was reported to have flown to Singapore last week to be with her brother. Jermaine Jackson said other family mem­be:s were planning to visit the pop superstar at some pomt during his world tour. "We wish to state our collec­tive, unequivocal belief that Michael has been made a vic­tim in a cruel, obvious attempt to take advantage of his fame and success," he said, reading from a statement. Jack~on's private investigator has said a Beverly Hills dentist accused the entertainer of molesting the man's teen-age.son an~ demanded $20 million to keep quiet. The dentist hasn t commented. Los Angeles police have confirmed that Jackson is the target of a criminal investi­gation. 
page 3 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Modern features highlight new campus phone system 
By EMILY HAGE 
Assistant News Editor 
Improving Notre Dame stu­dents' phone services and re­placing an outdated system motivated the Notre Dame Telecommunications Department to complete the in­stallation of a new phone sys­tem for Notre Dame campus phones. 
After two ye~rs of planning, Telecommunications decided on Indiana Bell's OMS 100 Switch Digital Centrex system, which offers a number of features, including call waiting, three­way calling, last number redial, and ring again, which allows students to be called back when a busy campus number is free. 
A voice mailbox package, Centigram, has also been added, said Telecommunications Manager Steve Ellis. 
The systems overhaul began in December of 1992 with ad­ministration phones and was 

The Home For All Your Cycling Needs 
·\~\.. 
..,,;,,,\,,;,;';''';''';;{d:i~/ 
~~i.~~i!~: 
and .Accessofies ...(
,,,,,·.with Student ID 
completed this summer with new phones in each dorm room on Notre Dame's campus. 
The primary reason for this step is the inadequacy of the old system, AT&T Dimension, which Telecommunications Coordinator Paulette Podlesak said Notre Dame has "literally outgrown." 
This system, roughly 11 years old, could no longer handle the increasing number of students, staff, and faculty, in addition to fax machines, said Podlesak. 
The University was beginning warning signals, the University acknowledged students' re­quests for the new features. 
"The students have the fea­tures they have at home, and that makes sense. It makes it more like home," said Switchboard Coordinator Janice Love. 
Podlesak added, "We wanted to enhance students' services since we were enhancing ser­vices for the administration." 
Ellis warned that students who choose not to have a voice mailbox would risk missing 
to run out of new numbers to such messages. be used, and too many users at According to Ellis, the pur­
certain busy times caused false busy signals, according to Ellis. 
Another problem with the old system was that its manufac­turers no longer serviced the system nor manufactured re­placement parts. 
In addition to these obvious chase price of the Digital Centrex system was approxi­mately $3,600,000, and the voice mailboxes, a separate sys­tem, was $500,000. Students' phone fee will increase by nine percent to cover these costs. 
Though many students find 
Futons 
Twin -8 position Frame &Mattress.QD@£ {chair • lounge • bed) 
*Save.Space * Save Money
5% Discount with Student I.D. 
Ellllllill' 
the new system to be complex, the Telecommunications Department has made an effort to minimize confusion. 
In addition to a user's manual explaining the features offered and how to utilize them, the Help Desk (631-9000) is avail­able to answer questions and help reset pass codes. 
They can also remove the voice mailbox feature upon stu­dents' requests. As of Friday at 5 p.m., only six students had requested that their mailbox be deactivated, Podlesak said. 
Ellis added that the Telecommunications Department has the ability to fmd users who are having diffi­culties with their phones, and they call these students to offer assistance. 
"We have a lot of confidence in the students' ability once they get used to it," said Podlesak. 
Future plans include individ­ual mailboxes and, "Anything we can do to make it easier. That's all we want to do," said Podlesak. 
"We hope that the students will enjoy the new features. We are excited about what we were able to offer students for the first time," said Podlesak. 
Saint Mary's continues to use the system they purchased three and a half years ago, NEAX 2400, according to Sandy Handley, Telecommunications Coordinator at Saint Mary's. 
This system includes such 
features as three-way confer­
ence call, hold, transfer, and 
park, but does not include call 
waiting or voice mailboxes. 
They plan on adding addi­
tional features in the future, 
but Handley does not expect 
them this year. 
Buy your books at: 
Stepan Center 
Wednec~day, September 1 from 3-9 Thurc~day, September 2 from 3-9 FriJay, September 3 from 2-6 
1
• If I I r I f 
-----------~-~ 
page 4 

Monday-Friday 7:00a.m. -9:00a.m. 9:00a.m. -10:15 a.m. 10:15 a.m.-10:45 a.m. 
10:45 a.m. -1:15 p.m. 1:15 p.m. --4:00p.m. 4:00p.m --4:30p.m 4:30p.m. -£:15 p.m. 6:15p.m. -7:00p.m. 
Saturday-Sunday 
9:00a.m. -10:30 a.m. 
10:30 a.m. -12:30 a.m. 12:30 p.m.-2:30p.m. 4:45p.m. -£:00 p.m. 
Full Breakfast Grilled to Order, Continental Breakfast Items Beverages Only Specialty, Traditions, Grill Formats; Desserts Grill Format; Salad &Deli Bar; Desserts Beverages Only Specialty, Traditions, Grill Formats Salad & Deli Bar; Desserts 
Continental Breakfast Items Brunch Format Grill Format; Salad Bar; Desserts Traditions, Grill Formats; Salad &Deli Bar 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
When operational, the P1re House Grill will provide grilled 
Meals 
breakfasts made to order and prepared in the service line it­
continued from page 1 
self, Kirwan said. Currently, appear more home-like. Dried this format is not yet available flowers and meal theme deco­due to venting problems, but it rations were implemented in' is hoped to be in place soon. the building. "The key to this progress in 
"We want to jump out of the the dining hall is communica­tion," Kirwan said. "It's impor­
dark ages of stainless steel and 
tant for us to be able to keep up brighten students stressful lives. We do not want meals to 
r--­
be boring," Kirwan said. 
Chlnese -American 
In addition to the building ~ ~ ~ "~ i't&fllr Restaurant & changes and extended hours, ~~ '-~t""'z;..)'l J Cocktail Lounge new ~hanges include the ex-~ .. .._. _ \\'ALL :&.uthentic Szechuan, panswn of the Wellness bar Mandarin & Hunan Cuisir.: and a grill-to-order format line. ,-......--.
Eventually, the existing Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Wellness bar will include a Lunches starting at .....$3,95 
Voted.Be:o.b
computer and printout provid-Dinners starting at .....$5.95 
Oriental Restal,\rant-'
ing a nutritional analysis for Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by ' 
the currents days meals, he 
I
said. 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend Mic:/Iiana Noh• 
I 
11 
AT&T can help you save money whether you live on campus, offcampus, or somewhere in between. 

Choose AT&T and save up to 25%~ No matter where you choose to live, you can save money on your long distance phone bill with an AT&T Savings Option. It's all part of The i Plan:· The personalized plan designed to fit the way you call. 
To sign up for off-campus calling, or to get an AT&T Card,

• stop by our booth on campus or call 

1800 654-0471, Ext. 4119. 
ATBaT 
•Savings based on ATI.T Simple Savin~ Plan available to oH·campus students. C 1993 Al!:T. 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 
With student's tastes and needs. The Food Committee and the comment board allow us to keep in touch with the student body. For this reason, we would like to set up a sample plate table later this week where stu­dents can vote whether or not they would like a particular entree again. This will hopeful­ly allow for a true representa­tion of student tastes." 

---~------~~~-~ -----~-~----~­
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
OUC installs updated equipment in campus computer clusters 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
Over the summer, the Office of University Computing (OUC) replaced and shifted nearly 130 computers in an effort to up­date several computer clusters and labs, according to Scott Siler, student resources coor­dinator for the OUC. 
The DeBartolo, LaFortune, Hayes-Healy, Davisson, 
Hesburgh, Fitzpatrick, and CCMB computer clusters re­ceived some new computer models. Some of the old hard­ware was transferred to other clusters, to be used as print­only stations or print servers, or sold to facility and staff in a special sale last May. 
"It wasn't just a simple switch. We bought the new ones and shifted some of the other computers around," Siler said. 
The purchase of the comput­ers stemmed from general maintenance problems with the older ones, which were mostly Macintosh SE's and SE30's. Some of the replaced software was close to five years old and lacked the speed and capabili­ties offered by the newer mod­els, according to Siler. 
"We were having a lot of problems with the machines in general. We had to get them repaired quite often," said Siler. 
The OUC purchased Macintosh Centris 650's and 610's. The 650 models were installed in the DeBartolo, Davisson and CCMB clusters. The Hesburgh cluster received the 610 model. Both models contain built-in CD-ROM and floppy disk drives, although stu­dents will have to bring their own CD caddy to use the CD-ROM. According to Siler, the Centris computers are faster than the SE's and SE30's and possess more capabilities with the CD-ROM functions. 

"The CD-ROM can be a regu­lar CD drive, just as on a stereo. It also acts as a very large flop­PY disk. You can fit so much more on the CD," said Siler. 
Other changes include the in"" stallation of Macintosh 2Ci's in the Hayes-Healy and LaFortune clusters, and the addition of some new IBM-DOS servers in Hesburgh, Hayes-Healy and DeBartolo. In the Fitzpatrick cluster, the OUC removed all of the Hewlett Packard Vectras and implemented 16 new Sun SPARCstations. 
"The SPARCstations are pri­marily used by engineering and science and are higher-ended work stations," said Siler. 
CORRECTION 
The Observer incorrectly stated the allotment of pro­ceeds generated by The Shirt. 
Only 75 percent of the pro­ceeds will go to aid Todd Broski, according to Steve Hank. 
The remaining 25 percent will go into the student fund for dorm improvements and clubs. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 


Right now, you can get agreat price on an Apple"printer for your Macintosh~ So you'll be able to print sharp, professional-looking papers right there in your room-without having to wait around at the com-
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
I ~ I • t I I I , I I I 1 ' , j I If I I I I I I' I' I I 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
SMC adds two lines to tmprove securttr 
By NICOLE McGRATH 
Saint MillY's New. Editor 
At the beginning of the sum­mer, Saint Mary's security cre­ated two new lines as a way of improving service when emergencies occur on campus, according to Director of Security Richard Chlebek. 
In the past, Saint Mary's se­curity used only the 284-5000 number for emergencies. The creation of a campus 9-1-1 and 284-4000 information number should be helpful additions. Chlebek said. 
"Hopefully, we'll end up with a lot of use and overall this should Improve communica­tion for any kind of emergen­cies," he added. 
In the past, when students have dialed 9-1-1 from their dorm rooms, the call has gone straight to the Saint Joseph police dispatch. They would then inform Saint Mary's secu­rity of a campus emergency, Chlebek said. 
Convenient Shopping Hours: 
Monday-Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Checks & Cash, too! 
"Before, with only one num­ber for non-emergency and emergency calls, we were flirt· ing with problems," he said. 
Now, the only exception is calling from a pay phone. 9-1· 1 calls from pay phones will reach the Saint Joseph police, he added. 
The three phone lines are; 
•information: 284·4000 
•security: 284-5000 
•emergency:9-1-1 
Campus administrators and resident advisers are spread· ing the word that new lines have been in effect all sum· mer. Although no memos describing the change have been distributed yet, there isa good reason. ''1'j,
"We haven't sent a campusz wide memo because nobody will see it, since not everyone is back yet," Chlebek said. 'i 
While Chlebek believes the new lines are a step in the right direction, he says it will be awhile until they know how well the system is working. 
MAKE YOUR DORM ROOM OR APARTMENT LOOK LIKE HOME Large selection of gently used furniture & carpet remnants at our 
Expanded Used Furniture Dept. 
1805 Western Ave. 
9 a.m.-7 p.m. 9 a.m. -8 p.m. 9 a.m. -6 p.m. noon -5 p.m. 
FURNITURE RE-STOCKED DAILY 
• 
Israel, Palestinians reach accord 
By NICOLAS TATRO sign of progress in the 22­Associatc:d Press month-old peace talks, set to resume today. JERUSALEM , The plan calls for Israeli 
Israel's Cabinet resoundingly approved a framework for Palestinian autonomy in the ~trife-torn occupied territories Monday, taking a first step to­ward ending 26 years of Israeli military control. 
The agreement, expected to be signed at peace talks this week, represents the first rna­jor breakthrough in the Middle East conflict since Egypt signed a peace treaty with the Jewish state in 1979. 
It was also the first significant troops to begin withdrawing from the Gaza Strip and the West Bank town of Jericho in six months, and for Palestinians to begin running their own affairs there. 
Israel has occupied the lands since the 1967 Middle East war, and fierce debate over the future of these territories has divided the Jewish state since. 
But a violent five and a half year uprising against Israeli rule persuaded many Israelis they were better off without the territories, especially the over­crowded Gaza strip that has no Biblical resonance for Jews. 
Israeli peace proponents also argued that if Israel does not forge an agreement with the Palestine Liberation Organization, it will soon face much more dangerous radical Islamic groups bent on greater violence. 
"We negotiated with the Palestinians with whom we have been in conflict for 100 years, and this is the most im­portant thing in the decision," Health Minister Bairn Ramon said after 16 ministers voted for the plan and two abstained. 

Attention Students! 
you need! 
•No-Fee Checkin~ and Savin~s Accounts •Loans 
•Computer 
Bankin~ with NBD Express •ATMs 

•
Extended Bankin~ Hours 


Visit NBD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 
NBDBank 18083 SR 23 North @ 
LiNDfR.
Member FDIC 273-1280 
THE 
CHALLENGE! 

Nightclub is Yours.. e YOU name the Promotion .. e IF IT'S LEGAL; WE'LL DO IT! 
P.S. No limits, No rules 

~ 
--~ --~ ~-----------~-~---------~­
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 The Observ~r • PAID ADVERTISMENT page 7 

WE'RE GLAD YOU'RE BACK 
All Notre Datne/Saint Mary's Students Faculty and Support Staff -.... IP©ljp©l Jolhlllll 9 ~ "Delivering the Perfect Pizza" is cotntnitted to once again being the ND/SMC 

~Voted IB~~~ Pllzz©l D~llhr~Jr~dl to Campus 
~ 1993 Observer and Independent Class Study
r-------,r-------,r-------, 
I 4... 14" Large II 1... 14" Large II 2... 14" Large I I 1 Topping II 1 T<?pping II 1 Topping Pizzas I I Pizzas I I Ptzza II $1195 I 
$695: $2295 +T~
•Tn :: •Tn :: -: 
.._. _______ _.._ _______ ~._.. _______ _.
IAdditional Toppings .95¢ each ~. I I Additional Toppings .95¢ each ~-II Additional Toppings 95¢ each ~.I 
I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon I I N~t Valid With Any Other Coupon I I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon I 
~L;:~~~;ci~ ri~~s;ci~,
1 11
9 p.m.• dose 11 a.m. • 4 p.m. 
I 1... 14" Large II 1~ 10" Small I
1 . . II 2 Topping Pizza and 1
I 1 Topptng Ptzza 112 cans of Coca~Cola® I I $595 +T~ II $595-+T~ I 
IAdditional Toppings .95¢ each ~-~~~itional Toppings 95¢ each ...J.I 
.._ _______ ot Valid With Any Other I hl~t Valid With Any Other Coupon ...I ---­

The Most Popular N on Campus! 

'1 It I I I 1 I I I I • I I I; I I 
I o 1 I I I I I If I I I I • I I It I I I' 

Burglaries 
continued from page 1 
the incidents are isolated and the work of one person." 
Police dusted the units in­volved and have a potential suspect, he added. 
NO students living in a house on Notre Dame Ave. also re­ported that their house had been burglarized. 
Students coming back to school welcomes a rash of crime, according to Sgt. Charlie Feirrel of the St. Joseph County Police. "When students are moving in there's a lot of con­fusion going on, and they have parties that are usually too big to be controlled so that many times anyone can walk in and take what they want." 
Feirrel agreed with Matteo saying that large, uncontrol­lable parties pose a problem for security enforcement. 
"If there are too many people at a party and gathered out­side, the police are distracted with the problem of keeping them under control so the neighbors don't complain instead of protecting the area," Matteo said. 
Matteo said he is increasing the number of police patrolling the development and involving the neighborhood enforcement team, S.O.S. squad and S.U.D.S. to provide extra security. The South Bend Detective Bureau has planned a special surveil­lance team, as well, and other security measures are being looked into, he added. 
A rash of burglaries have occured in Lafayette Square and other off-campus housing prompting local authori­ties to increase security. Several returning students have been victims of these crimes. 
0' Captain, Deadbolts, alarms deter burglars Our Captain! 
ByJULIE BARRETT tern is deter the burglar from when moved, metal bars on the News Writer even bothering to try or just windows or within the frame it­Happy 21B to our slow them down." self that can be secured from 
Students living on their own Hill recommended dead bolt the inside. favorite ND Domer... off-campus for the first time locks that go at least one inch "However, bars on windows are often unfamiliar with pro­into the door jamb and two and or even boarding them up tective measures they can take one half inch screws that se­poses a fire hazard and are not Kathryn to secure their homes from in­cure the door jamb so the door allowed in some complexes," truders. cannot be easily pryed open or Hill added 
There are a range of security torn down. Other suggestions include Love, systems and devices offered, "The average bolt takes about keeping the outside entrances some more effective and cost­eight seconds to break open, well-lit, the shrubbery low, and Mom, Ted, Pat, Tim lier than others, but none 100 while the one inch one takes leaving a radio or TV and a 
& Michalla
percent effective, according to about one minute," he said. light on inside to make it look Corp. Millard Hill of the South For sliding glass doors and like people are there. Bend Crime Prevention unit. windows, a metal bar can be 
"Basically, if a person wants placed in tightly between the to break into a place, he or she frame and the wall to prevent will do so in most cases regard­them from being opened. less of the security system in­Other suggestions include a stalled," he said. "What a resi­motion sensitive bar for the dent can do by bolting their sliding glass doors and win­doors and having an alarm sys-dows that sound off an alarm 

-~ountrlJ Haroester Presents ·~ Col!utian ofMemories • 
"IRISH.VILLAGE 
-~...-..-o.--. 
The VIllage Ia Growlngl 


We are Pleased to Announce Additions to Our Collection of Notre Dame Buildings: 
Rockne Memorial, Fisher Hall, Farley Hall, Breen-Phillips Hall, Sarin Hall 
LA:lortutu Student Center Lower Levt! (219) 631· 6714 

ojfitiJ1y Liu.rud~~ of'1IU 'llniV<rsity of~tr< V•mt 
ADD WARMTH, OLOR & SOFTNESS TO ANY DRAB ROOM 
10°/o Discount 
Thursdays Mondays Tues. & Thurs. 
or Free Pad 
6-10 p.m. 
6-10 p.m. 
6-10 p.m. begins Sept. 2 
begins Sept. 13 begins Sept. 2 
with Student ID 
Intensive strategy reviews at less 
Mon-Fri 9 -8, Sat 1 0 -5, Sun noon -5
than halfthe cost of other Programs. 
Follow Douglas Road to:
IUSB Continuing Education 
~E~~~BA 
50760 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637
1700 Mishawaka Ave. 
OCUSA U91 REPilODUCriOH OF ANY PART OF THIS AD IS PRQHIIITED
~~~il· 
(219) 272-4500
WITHOUT WRITTUC CONSENT OF C.OPETLAND UU 
Call 2374261 


IUS B! 
GRE Review 
GMAT Review 
LSAT Review 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
LaFortune Center shuffles basen1ent business locations 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
The Copy Shop, The Country Harvester, and ND Video moved to different locations in the basement of the LaFortune Center during the summer due to a re-evaluation of the needs of each business, according to Joseph Cassidy, director of stu­dent activities, who oversaw the move. 
The Copy Shop has moved to space previously occupied by The Country Harvester, The Country Harvester to space pre­viously occupied by ND Video, and ND Video to space previ­ously occupied by The Copy Shop. 
"We evaluate the space and location of each business on an ongoing basis looking at the number of folks each business is serving and what they are providing," said Cassidy. "The moves came down to the best use of space." 
The move of Country Harvester coincided with the expiration of their lease and the Copy Shop's need for more space, said James Lyphout, as­sociate vice president for busi­ness affairs. A tenant in LaFortune cannot be forced to move before the expiration of their lease, he said. 
The Copy Shop, which has been a LaFortune tenant for four years, has already benefit­ted from the move, which gave them roughly twice the amount 
Improving visibility was the primary goal to be accom­plished by the move of ND Video to the old Copy Shop lo­cation. The store has roughly the same amount of space as it did before, only it is now in a much better location to capital­ize on student customers and improve its business, said Cassidy. 
of space as they had in the pre­ND Video is the only opera­
vious location, said manager tion that has not yet opened for 
Jeff Riffel. business in its new location, in addition to being the only stu­
"We've added things we could dent-run entity of the three. It never have had in the other is expe_cted to open within the store," said Riffel. "The next week or so, according to increased space has already Mary Edgington, assistant di­improved our business." rector of Student Activities. 
Although The Country Another summer develop­Harvester lost roughly 200 ment in the basement of La square feet of space, said Fortune was the June retire­owner and manager Rose ment of barber Joe "ROTC Joe" Horak, they are able to display D'Angelo after 38 years of cam­about the same amount of in­pus hair cutting. ventory as in the old location. 
"My only concern is when Taking his place in the barber Christmas time comes around shop is Frank " the Barber" because I usually have in­Franko, who was previously a creased displays, but we'll see," barber at Kent State University. she said. 
ChiJI\ese RestatA~aJI\t & Ca~~}! OtAt .... GET INVOLVED IN THE •
Try our authentic Szechuan Style Noodles, 
'llf' EXCITING WORLD OF hn COLLEGIATE ATHLETICS! 
Mandarin Style Fried Rice and Egg Rolls ... 
Notre Dame Sports Marketing is
They're the Best in Town 
looking for volunteers! Lunch & Dinner starting at $325 
We are looking for students interested in learning about athletic
All lunch specials served with a fresh egg roll 
promotions from the inside out. 
Dine In or Carry Out Hours: 
Our students will work directly with the coaches and staffs of NO's varsity sports in
1809 SR 23 at Tues-Sat 11:30 a.m.-10 p.m. 
developing and implementing promotions. 
Campus Shoppes Sun noon -9 p.m. 
From pre-season to tournament time, be there every step of the way in continuing the
Mon Closed
South ofCoach's 
tradition of excellence of Notre Dame Athletics. 
If you are interested, contact Aimee in the sports marketing department at 631-8103. 
271-0125 

SATURDAY 

SPONSORED BY: 
w
CLIFFHANGER
THURSDAY 
STARRING: SYLVESTER STALLONE 
MONTGOMERY THEATER 
E 
STUDENT UNION
IG SURF DRIVE-IN 
BOARD
LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER
MOVIE!! 
7:00 PM, 9:30 PM, & 12:00 AM 

E 
Double Feature: 
FREE BILLIARDS 
GORCH GAMES ROOM 
STUDENT UNION BG\RD 
* say anything
L 
LAFORTUNESTUDENTCENTER 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
* Singles 6:00 PM -1:00AM 

E
FREE VIDEO GAMES
Begins at Dusk GORCH GAMES ROOM
Fieldhouse Mall 
6:00PM · 7:00PM
c 
COUPONS WllL BE DISTRIBUTED AT TilE ABOVE EVENTS FOR FOOD SPECIALS AT TilE HUDDLE Ram Site: LaFortune Ballroom 
K 
SUNDAY 
0 
FRIDAY 
Comedians 
E
Live at Stonehenge ... 
Chris "Crazy Legs" Fonseca 
M 
&
ROCKFEST II 
Buzz Sutherland
Student Bands/Refreshments 
8:00PM 101 Debartolo
E 
8:30 PM at the Fieldhouse Mall Cost: $3.00 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE 
STUDENT CENTER INFORMATION DESK 
SEPTEMBER 2-5, 1993 
Buzz Sutherland 



Thousands flee as Emily heads for Carolina coast 
By ESTES THOMPSON approach the ferocity of those to swing north Tuesday, said There also was the question evacuated the Outer Banks and Associated Press hurricanes. it was expected to the National Hurricane Center of timing -whether the storm low-lying coastal areas of North strengthen, with top sustained in Coral Gables, Fla. would hit near high tides at Carolina. Officials estimated HATTERAS, N.C. wind possibly exceeding 100 "We'll probably have to put around 8 p.m. Tuesday and 9 there were more than 150,000 
Thousands of people boarded mph. And coastal areas it some warnings on northward a.m. Wednesday. A full moon people in the area, three­
up windows and fled inland threatened were left vulnerable tomorrow," said Bob Sheets, will make the tides even higher. fourths of them tourists, before Monday as Hurricane Emily by two major dune-flattening the center's director. "The Residents and tourists alike the storm threatened. 
strengthened and headed to­storms last winter. question is how soon it's going ward the sandy, low-lying Outer to turn to the north." Banks island chain with 95 mph At 8 p.m., Emily's center was If it turns northward before 
wind. about 260 miles southeast of or shortly after hitting the Hurricane warnings were Cape Hatteras, near latitude Outer Banks, Emily would head 
The Observer 
posted from the central North 32.2 degrees north and longi­back out to sea and would be Carolina coast to Virginia as the tude 73.0 degrees west. Wind expected to stay offshore of the 
is now hiring personnel 
storm threatened to pass over and rain from the hurricane coast, said hurricane center land Tuesday afternoon, and hadn't reached shore but ocean forecaster Tony Zaleski. That 
for the following paid positions: 
forecasters said there was a swells along the coast had could cause large swells and growing threat to the East grown to 10 feet, the National 40-50 mph wind along the Coast farther north. Weather Service said. coastline from Virginia to New The hurricane's maximum York's Long Island. 
Ad Design Staff 
"My wife is scared to death," sustained winds were near 95 said commercial fisherman mph, up from 85 mph three If Emily moves farther inland Jack Quidley, 45, of Buxton on hours earlier, and some addi­over North Carolina before 
Applicants should have experience with QuarkXPress 
the Outer Banks. tional strengthening was likely veering north, it might weaken 
and/or Aldus Freehand. For more information,
''I'm taking this seriously as the storm traversed the Gulf to tropical storm status -with after Hugo and Andrew," said Stream. sustained wind below 7 4 mph 
call Stephanie Goldman at Hatteras Island native Janice Emily was moving west­-but could bring heavy rain 
631-7471. 
Spake, 43. northwest at near eight mph and high wind to big East Coast Though Emily was unlikely to and that motion was expected cities, Zaleski said. 
CORRECTION 
• 20 -30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 
In a graphic in Saturday's edition, The Observer incor­• $5.50 per hour • meet new peoplerectly reported the hours of operation for the Notre Dame 
• flexible evening hours • training dining halls. 

• no experience necessary • real life experience This year, both North and South Dining Halls will serve 
Please join us for an informal
breakfast from 7 to 9:15 a.m., continental breakfast from 
OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION
9:15 to 10 a.m., lunch from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. and din­
Wednesday, September l st ner from 4:45 to 7 p.m. 
4:00-6:00p.m.
Students are charged for 13 meals each week, but may 
at the Annual Fund Phone Center eat up to 21, according to 
(Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
David Prentkowski, director of Food Services. 
;r:;~euttu 
The Observer regrets the 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffinet (631-7241)
error. 
ANNOUNCING THE FORMATION OF COMMITTEES Recommended by the Colloquy for the Year 2000 
Acting on recommendations in the final report of the Colloquy for the Year 2000, Father Malloy has announced the formation of four new University committees-on curriculum; international studies; research, scholarship and infrastructure; and libraries. 
Three of the four committees will be composed of 25 students, faculty and staff members and will issue final recommendations to the provost and Academic Council by the end of the 1993~94 academic year. The Committee on Research, Scholarship and Infrastructure will have 20 faculty, staff and student members and will issue its preliminary recommendations by the end of this year. 
The majority of the members of each committee will be chosen by their respective constituencies. 
Father Malloy has appointed as committee chairs: Timothy O'Meara, provost, University Curriculum Committee; Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of international programs, Committee on International Studies; Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and research, Committee on Research, Scholarship and Infrastructure; and Roger Schmitz, vice president and associate provost, Committee on University Libraries. 
Father Malloy's final Colloquy report, submitted to the University's trustees May 7, 1993, included 43 specific recommendations. The recommendations pertinent to the new committees are: 
• 
Recommendation 9-"A University Curriculum Committee should report and make recommendations to the Academic Council on the quality of the undergraduate learning experience at Notre Dame with a special emphasis on curriculum, course of study (including the Freshman Year of Studies), learning resources and total campus environment." 

• 
Recommendation 16-"A University Committee on International Studies should be formed to prepare a mission statement for Notre Dame's international programs, to assess and ensure their academic strength, to consider their reorganization and relocation to a more visible campus site, and to plan for their future growth along the following lines: 


~Expand programs to sites in other parts of the world; ~Create appropriate programs for students of science and engineering, now virtually excluded because of curricular constraints; ~Develop strong curricular support in all areas in which programs operate, so that courses in language, politics, literature and the 
like give students adequate preparation for, and build upon, studies overseas; ~Allocate special financial aid to make international study programs available to all qualified Notre Dame students, not just those whose parents can supplement the usual room, board and tuition costs; ~Explore creative ways to work out genuine exchange programs so that students come to the University from the various overseas sites." 
• 
Recommendation 20-"The University should set the goal of becoming one of the premier private universities in the country, renowned for research as well as teaching. A University committee should be established to develop a comprehensive strategic plan for improving research and scholarship at Notre Dame, with special emphasis on infrastructure, research~development funding and mainte~ nance to support these endeavors. This committee should report periodically to the provost and the Academic Council." 

• 
Recommendation 21 _"The University must dramatically improve library resources and services to ensure that the faculty and students have readily accessible the resources required for their work. An ad hoc Committee on University Libraries should be estab~ lished which will be entrusted with responsibility to review the present reality of the Notre Dame libraries; initiate a study of trends and developments in peer research libraries; and issue a report with recommendations to the provost and Academic Council. This report shou!J be as exhaustive as possible and presented in a timely fashion." 


I I I I ~ I I I I t I I ~ I \ I I ' • I
f. I 
I I I • 
~-Th-esda-~A-ugu-st31-,19~93~-~-----~~he-Obs-e~-r·P-~-D-AD-~-~-IS-ME-NT---------~,---·---P-~-11 --~~ 
= ~ 
IRT' 

~ 
The Official Football Shirt of the Notre Dame Student Body 

Irish Sea Irish Sea 
Join the 12TH Man 
Available at: 
Football Ticket Sales Dining Halls LaFortune Information Desk The Notre Dame Bookstore The Alumni Association JACC Varsity Shop 
~~· 
~~~. 
All Proceeds Benefit Charitable and Student Organizations < .., g 
' 'I j j I j' f 1' • I 
• I I j I I • I 1' • o • •, •, 
-~--------~ 
Choir 
concinued from page I 
said Breen Phillips junior Jenny Tilghman. "It was almost mov­ing to the point of tears, and he had just stepped out of the heli­copter. He had not even said a word." 
When he did speak, it was equally moving, said Warner. 
During the homily at the Papal Mass, the Holy Father urged the congregation to "never be ashamed of the Gospel," Warner explained. After a few moments of thought he corrected himself saying rather, to "be proud of the Gospel." 
It was as if he realized that his original words had negative connotations and he wanted to make the point that Catholics do not have to be defensive about their faith, said Warner. 
Technically, the celebration of the pope's third visit to the United States ran four days-beginning with the papal wel­come on August 12 and ending with the Mass on August 15­but the folk choir spent 10 days rehearsing, giving recitals for a local congregation, and partici­pating in teaching sessions. 
During this week and a half, members of the choir built a rapport with the other choirs and with those who heard and responded to their music. 
"The reason we have that report," explained Tilghman "is that we seem like we are hav~ ing fun. We like to get into it. We move around if we feel so moved and we want the audi­ence to sing and clap." 
The folk choir was first or­ganized at Notre Dame in 1980 with an electric piano and nearly as much Simon and Garfunkel music as Church music, said Warner. Since then, they have worked to "find and create a repertoire" that con­sists of music from Ireland, England, Mexico, France, and African American traditions. 
That diversity of music fit in well in Denver where Catholics from various backgrounds and cultures united in celebration, according to Warner. Although the media focused on a divided Church, Warner said he and the choir felt a sense of unity. 
With 180,000 people from innumerable backgrounds and cultures sharing themselves, their faith, and their music, the World Youth Day Conference was a true celebration of the Catholic Church, according to Warner. And with their clap­ping and swaying the members of the Notre Dame Folk Choir were on the scene as "prophets of joy," he said. 
"There is lots of room in the Church for joy," said Warner. "A lot of times we set set that at the doorstep when we walk into church-and we leave behind some of the best things about the expression of faith." 
Media 
continued from page 1 
of the theology department. 
"When you think about the enormous amount of good the church does-helping the poor, helping the homeless and oth­ers-that is simply not played up, partly because people expect it, but many times the media tends to focus on the bad things that happen." 
The coverage of the World Youth Day showed the same kind of negative bias, Mcinerny said. 
"In the case of the media, much of the time they were looking to balance their cover­age," he said. "When someone said something good, they looked to find someone to deny it." 
On the whole, the World Youth Day was an incredible event particularly because of the pope's presence, Mcinerny said. 
"I was enthralled," he said. "The pope exhibits something more than what he does, but what he is. (He) is tremen­dous." 
Reports that the pope's lack of strong comments on the abortion issue were meant as a 
softening of his stance  are  
false,  according  to  
Cunningham.  

"Anyone who thinks the Pope is softening his stance against abortion is whistling in the wind," Cunningham said. "His lack of comments were proba­bly just a strategic effort not to seem like he was scolding us ... he wanted to leave us with a positive message." 
Back o 
S.B. police! 
Mollie:S 21 now! 


PLAN Test Prep Welcomes You Bacl{! 
LSAT Classes for the October 2., 1993 Exam 
start this week: 
Thursday, September 2 1717 E. SoUth Bend Avenue 
EXPERIENCE I(APLAN TOTAL TRAINING ANYTHING ELSE IS PARTIAL PREP 

APLA 

The answer to the test question 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
Robert Siegfried, NO patron and alum, dead at age 77 
By SARAH DORAN home in Tulsa, Oklahoma. He 1965 alumnus and member of University vice president emeri­an oil, gas, banking, and indus­Associate News Editor was 77. the University's Board of tus and classmate of Siegfried's trial development concern. "His legacy, and this is the Trustees. "For this we are all so who delivered the homily at his Robert and Ray Siegfried also 
Robert Siegfried, a Notre consensus of all his children, very grateful." funeral. "I would be willing to established the Siegfried Chair Dame alumnus who joined with was to instill in us a deep sense "Bobby Siegfried was faithful wager that few residents of in Entrepreneurial Studies and his son Ray to underwrite the of abiding faith and the impor­to his God, his family and his Tulsa would be more known to Private Enterprise in the construction of Siegfried Hall, tance of religion in our daily community responsibilities," a diverse group of citizens, College of Business passed away July 31 at his lives," said Ray Siegfried, a said Father Edmund Joyce, from policemen to priests, from Administration, in addition to 
doctors to debutantes." underwriting the residence 

The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Welcome Back!
"on the campus" 
3M Sale! 



. .
-.. 
.
.m-. . 
Scotchtm Scotchtm Glue Stick Removable (white or purple) Mounting Squares 2/$1.00 .89ea. 
Special hours: Tues. 9-6, Weds., Thurs. & Fri. 9-7 Saturday 8-6 
VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Tuesday, August 31, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Ann~ Hcroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Ed.itor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director.. .............................. Brendan Regan Saint Muy's Editor............. Jennifer Habrych Controller .......................................Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns prcscm the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w all readers. The free: expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Busint:ss Offict:  631-5313  Advt:rtising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


PAUL PEARSON IDEAS AND IDEALS LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Abortion should not be 
O'Hara offers goodwill to all
illegal, but unheard of 
Dear Editor: with a rich tradition that dates I hope that I will have the op­
For the benefit of all fresh­ment, people who believe that a back more than one hundred portunity to know as many of men and transfer students, I woman has the right to do any­To the students of Notre and fifty years to the vision of you as possible in the months will now reveal the easiest way thing she wants with her body. Dame, I would like to extend a our founder, Father Edward ahead. Until I am able to greet to start an argument at Notre These people haven't gone warm welcome on behalf of all Sorin, C.S.C. We hope that all of you in person, please know that Dame. out and murdered any pro-life of us who work in the Division you-both those who are new you have my very best wishes 
Domers love to argue about activists, yet. of Student Affairs-the Offices and those who are are return­for a year filled with all God's anything and everything. The The media remain saturated of Residence Life, Security. ing-will be able to achieve the good blessings. worth of the current president. with "abortion confrontation" Student Residences, Alcohol academic, spiritual and person­Who will win the Super Bowl. stories, and more than enough and Drug Education, Student al goals you set for yourselves Patricia O'Hara And, of course. the great to keep our focus away from Activities, International Student this year. Vice President for Student Affairs "soda" vs. "pop" controversy. the really important thing: Affairs, Counseling Center, Ca­August 30, 1993 
But the easiest way to start Women are having abortions, reer and Placement, Health an argument is to bring up the and will keep on having them if Services, Campus Ministry and one hot topic, the one that has the current social, cultural, Hall Staffs. Although we pro­divided this campus (and this political and economic environ­vide a variety of services, we country) for far too long. ment stays the same. share a common desire to do 
Abortion. It really doesn't matter which everything we can to help facili­
Pretty soon, as sure as there side of the abortion fence you tate your intellectual, spiritual are ticket ads in the fall, there sit on. Both sides are spending and personal growth in your will be a mountain of letters too much energy and resources lives outside the classroom. and columns in Viewpoint tak­fighting each other and not We welcome back the sopho­ing a stand on this issue, on nearly enough eradicating the mores, juniors and seniors, as one side or the other. problems that lead to abortion. well as the returning graduate 
And only on one side or the Imagine for a moment: and professional students. We other. A place where women are extend a special welcome to 
On one end of the spectrum, always treated with the dignity our new students-the fresh­there is the "pro-life" side. and respect they deserve. men, transfer and new gradu­Normally, these are people who Where reliable health care is ate and professional students. pray rosaries or carry signs in available everywhere. Where You join a proud community front of women's clinics. sex is not a taboo subject, but 
Unfortunately, this side has topic which can be discussed grown increasingly fanatical. openly and intelligently without Witness the "sieges" that shame. 
Student gov't awaits involvement 
Operation Rescue forms at clin­In such a place, abortion is 
ics each summer. Blocking not illegal. Dear Editor: things planned at Student Gov­you to attend Senate meetings entrances, harassing young It's unheard of. Welcome back to the students ernment this year. We want to and use floor time to express women who are already This place should be the of Notre Dame. We hope you make Student Government your ideas. You can also pre­
stressed beyond belief, and United States of America, and it have had a great summer and more accessible to you by mak­pare Senate resolutions and telling children to run past po­can be if we start focusing on 
are looking forward to a terrific ing it easier for you to voice work for their enactment. We lice lines. the cause of the problem in­year. your opinions. hope that you will take advan­
Gosh, these kids are really stead of the problem itself. Stop Things are already underway There are several ways for tage of these opportunities to learning to respect the law. quoting Humane Vitae and the at Student Government, and the you to do this. First, we invite be heard. aren't they? Constitution, and start making 
projects are off to a fantastic you to visit our office on the We look forward to a great
The extremists in the anti­the ideas contained in them 
start. The Guide will be out second floor of LaFortune to year and hope to see you in­
abortion movement have reality. later this semester. The Job talk to us directly about your volved. recently become vigilantes, as Paul Pearson is a 1993 grad­
Bank has already found jobs for ideas. Secondly, you can speak Frank Flynn 
evidenced by shootings in uate of Notre Dame and a for­
several students, and the Book to us at Hall Council meetings Student Body President Florida and Kansas. Would this mer Observer writer. He cur­
Fair will be held this week at which we will be attending Nikki Wellman qualify as "pro-life?" rently works as a writer/editor Stepan Center, Wednesday weekly. Finally, the most pow-Student Body 
On the other extreme. we for a tri-lingual weekly news­through Friday. These, how­erful tool available to you is the Vice-President 

have the "pro-choice" move-paper in Tampa, Florida. DOONESBURY 
OOI HAVtA 
aJHAT7Hf-... HI. MY
UFe~ WHATKJNV WHOA~?& NAMt-'5
OF QU/3ST/ON 15 
vour ANlJY UPPINC077.
111M, CAU&I< 'Z 
\ I 
\ 
ever, are only some of the Student Senate. We encourage August 30, 1993 GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
ANlJY UPPIN­ I AM. BUT  
(XJTT2 JOANit'S  50MeT!Mt, I  WHYNOT2  
ff?JENIH 8IJT  UK£. TO WOP  YOUR US­ 
1 THOUGHT  IN ON PWPU3':3  7f:Na<ScrJ.  
YOU Wei?&...  OR&AM5 7V SEe  fXJN'TWORI<Y  
IFI CAN Ht:lP  AEJaJT IT.  
()(fT.\.  \  

N
otre Dame is not as pure as we like ro think or we wish it was, but compared with ninety percent of other schools, it's as pure as the driven snow. 
John Carney m Under the Tarnished Dome 

ACCENT 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 page 15 
Author of "Odyssey" explores the sports and spirituality of Notre Dame 
By TONY POPANZ 
Accent Writer 
A select few have had the opportunity to live and work the best part of their lives on behalf of Our Lady's University. 
Those who have have seen and taken part in radical changes over time, and have helped conjure a famous tradition of heroes and achievements. 
One such hero on the Notre Dame 
Book Review 
scene has lived and worked for over forty years, deeply concealed yet cease­lessly performing within a brigade of champions, including the likes of Frank Leahy, Father Hesburgh, Joe Boland, Chet Grant, Ara Parseghian and Joe Montana. 
His name -Herb Juliano, a man whose unflagged devotion to Notre Dame and its ideal had inspired him to surrender his life to the university. With this inspiration {and the mechanical tenacity of pre-war Remington type­writer), Juliano has just released "Notre Dame Odyssey: A Journey Through Sports and Spirituality On The Notre Dame Campus". 
Using wit and a vivid memory, Juliano pieces together a mosaic combining his­toric accounts of legends that have shaped Notre Dame's enigmatic spirit with narratives of his copious experi­ences at the heart of sports and spiritu­ality that have become Notre Dame's claim to fame. 
"Odyssey" expounds upon the charac­ter of Notre Dame during its formative years, and delves the reader into the hearts of the coaches, administrators, and students of the past by reliving some of the little-known happenings that have weaned Sorin's modest log­hewn chapel overlooking Saint Mary's Lake up to its present status as our nation's most prestigious Catholic uni-
Museums offer students an 
Observer Staff Report 
As the new semester begins, students run around aimlessly trying to get to class on time, sleeping out for football tickets and unpacking their many boxes. 
So for those already looking for an escape from their busy schedules, a nice stroll through an art exhibit may do some good. 
Currently at Notre Dame the Snite Museum of Art is showing "A Fresh Look: Photographs from the Permanent Collection". 
This exhibit is a collection of sixty 20th century, color and black and white pho­tographs. 
Images by Imogen Cunningham, Arnold Newman and Aaron Siskind are on view for the very first time. 
A highlight of the exhibit is one of the museum's newest photographs. For the first time, a rare portrait of Georgia O'Keefe by the late Southwestern pho­tographer Fritz Kaeser will be on view. 
The image was made during a three­day visit to O'Keeffe's Ghosr Ranch. 
The exhibit also holds works by New York City photographer Weegee, played by Joe Pesci in the recent film, "The Public Eye." 
Other selected works by master pho­tographers, including Henri Cartier­versity. 
An anthology, "Odyssey" will likely enthrall all who read it. Its style and content are unlike any other Notre Dame book written to date. For exam­ple, Juliano touches on the long forgot­ten farcical riots incited by the student body against the Ku Klux Klan in 1924, which Knute Rockne successfully medi­ated are bound to delight. He also elabo­rates the story of the Native American Domer, in whose honor the Cleveland pro baseball club is named. 
"Odyssey" also includes chapters about continuing legacies, such as the Washington Hall ghost, the misplaced monument commemorating John Henry Shillington, a dismissed student who subsequently joined the Navy and later went down with the "Maine", and the continuing attempts of movie makers to depict Notre Dame's Football heritage. 
A sizable chapter has been devoted to the late Chet Grant, one of Rockne's great quarterbacks and George Gipp's teammate and roommate, who, even fourteen years ago, took Notre Dame to task for becoming secularized. His let­ter has been reprinted in full. 
Juliano also takes the opportunity to tell his own story of the multiple roles he has undertaken in the past 40 years, which includes assistant to the late Joe Boland in the operation of the Irish Football Network, sportscaster on WNDU radio and TV, curator of the International Sports and Games Research collection and research assis­tant in the Sports Information Department. 
His experience speaks for itself as ver­
ification of the depth of his knowledge 
and experience, and is, to say the least, 
fascinating. 
Through and through, "Odyssey" 
reflects the unconditional love and 
devotion of one man, Herb Juliano, who 

Bresson, Edward Steichen, Edward Weston, August Sander and Ansel Adams are complemented by more recent photos by Joel Myerowitz and Gary Winogrand. 
The show is on view through Sept. 19. 
Even beyond the Snite, students have the South Bend Regional Museum of Art available to them. 
Form now until Oct. 15, "The Jacquard Way: Bronzes, Drawings and Models by Jerald Jacquard" is on dis­play. 
"The Jacquard Way" is a traveling exhibition representing outdoor sculp­ture, bronzes, drawings, paintings and 

gave his life to simply and unselfishly contribute to the prosperity of Notre Dame. 
All proceeds benefit SERV (Students Encouraging Religious Vocations), which 
models for works. 
Jacquard, a Bloomington sculptor, moved from Chicago in 1975 to head Indiana University's sculpture depart­ment. 
One of four museums to host the exhibit, the South Bend Regional Museum of Art has chosen to concen­trate on Jacquard's smaller bronzes, drawings and models or marquees. 
Also on display until Sept. 5 is "Where the Bouys Are: Sculpture by Barbara Jo McLaughlin" in the Women's Art League Gallery. 
McLaughlin explained her sculpture as "reductive forms that strive for a total 
was founded by Juliano as a response to the growing need of holy religious voca­tions. 
Juliano's book may be found in the Notre Dame bookstore for $12.50. 
integration of concept, material, pro­cess, form and surface." 
The piece is a part of McLaughlin's "Bobber: series, a body of work repre­senting ten years of artistic exploration into materials and personal imagery. 
"The imagery is based on fishing tack­le, bobbers and related items remem­bered fondly by the artist from child­hood fishing expeditions with her fa­ther," said the museum curator. 
The artists' works have been displayed at the Chicago International Art Exhibition at Navy Pier in 1990. 
Both the Snite and South Bend Regional Museum of Art are open to the public with free admission. 
~..........------~--------~---...~.r~~------~--------------------------~~-----------~~--~--­
page 16 The Observer·BOOK MARKS Tuesday, August 31, 199 3 
Excerpts reveal ND's 'tarnished' image Response 
Excerpts from ·under the Tarnished Dome." released yesterday. follow: 
"One player who was not helped by Holtz's efforts was quarterback Tony Rice. Their relationship was difficult at best, several players said. A few were blunter. 
'Holtz ruined Tony Rice,' said Dan Quinn. 'Rice was one of the best athletic quarterbacks I've ever seen.' ... 
George Marshall echoes Quinn's thoughts: 'Tony was a really good quar­terback. He had a hell of an arm, but Holtz never let him throw it. Even during practice, Holtz wouldn't let him throw it. For the life of us we couldn't understand why. Tony could stand at the thirty and throw it in the other end zone. And if he would just have let Tony practice it more and then actually let him throw it in the game, we could have won a lot more."' 
"No part of the Notre Dame image is more cherished, more critical to its efforts to distinguish itself from the grubby football factories with which it must compete. than the notion that its football coach will receive no special favors from the university to help him along. 
Let the Oklahomas of the world sully their schools by bringing in unqualified students who can run and block and tackle; Notre Dame proves that you can maintain high academic standards and still put a championship team on the field. 
Let the Nebraskas automatically red­shirt the freshman class to let them grow bigger and stronger; Notre Dame re­minds the world that college is a four­year experience, and that treating it oth­erwise severs the connection between school and team that lies at the heart of college athletics .... 
'My image of Notre Dame prior to going there,' says Tom Riley, ... 'was it was a school that was a complete suc­cess and it did it the right way. Ev­erybody bought into the Notre Dame image. It was the Golden Dome and all that. Now, Notre Dame football falls into that category of so many other big-time football schools. 
'It traded part of its image for a few wins. They had the years of Faust and found out they didn't like losing. What separates Notre Dame now from any other school? Absolutely nothing. The things that drew me to Notre Dame as a senior in high school aren't there any­more.'" 
"The familiar refrain when it comes to college football is that 'everybody's cheating.' That's no excuse, clearly; still, Notre Dame most certainly is not the only one. It's just the one we wish most desperately weren't debasing itself so." 
"Holtz loves to remind people that 'los­ing tells you something, mostly that you are not good enough.' Notre Dame sim­ply will not stand for such a reminder. It will not because it cannot. Notre Dame is football. Without it, Notre Dame is sim­ply a small Catholic institution with a great chemistry department in a small northern town with lousy weather." 
"Faust's problems, which is to say Notre Dame's problems, were everywhere. But everyone wanted him to succeed. If 
Faust wanted success, others wanted it for him even more." 
"Everyone definitely knew where to get it (steroids). It was just not spoken. I mean, it wasn't like you were gonna tell the guy next door in your dorm that somebody is using steroids or selling them," said George Marshall. "It was just that you knew where to go to take care of your end of the bargain, and it wasn't like we had to go out and adver­tise it. I mean, that is something we def­initely wanted to be quiet." 
"What does Notre Dame stand for? For a public institution such as Oklahoma University or Florida State University, the question would be mean­ingless; for a major Catholic university, the most prominent in the nation, it is an extremely important one. In hiring Lou Holtz, Notre Dame declared that what it won't stand for is a losing football team." 

. ' 
f . _·...

).
·.1f'l#. 

Dori Yeager DouglasS. Looney 


throw it." 
continued from page 28 
mic standards are met. 
"The university has been testing its varsity athletes for drug use since 1985, and its testing program has continually evolved into one of the most stringent in the nation. Athletes are subject to ran­dom unannounced testing on a year­round basis. 
"Since the inception of its program in 1985, Notre Dame has found a total of only five positive tests for steroids, none in more than 1,000 tests on football stu­dent-athletes done since 1990. 
"There have also been 144 NCM tests of Notre Dame athletes without a finding of drug use. The drug testing policy includes continuous supervision during specimen acquisition and a supervised chain of custody throughout the entire process . 
"Moreover, Notre Dame's policy requires that laboratories screen speci­mens for masking agents which could interfere with detection of drug use. The position of Coach Holtz on this issue is unequivocal, and he has on numerous occasions spoken to Notre Dame players on the dangers of drug use and his intol­erance for the use of steroids. 
"With regard to injuries, at Notre Dame it has always been the responsibility of the team physician to determine an injured athlete's suitability for return to action. The Notre Dame team physician has assured me that 'at no time has Coach Holtz ever admonished me to play an injured athlete in practice or in a game. He has always deferred to my medical judgment and has been openly supportive of any efforts to improve the health of the team.' 
"In brief, Notre Dame has the highest admission and eligibility standards for its student-athletes, a fact reflected in its consistently superior graduation rate for them. It also has complete confidence in its pioneering drug-testing program, as well as its policies regarding athletic injuries. 
"Notre Dame conducts routine exit interviews with graduating athletes, including football players. The vast majority of the 250 or so players who have finished their eligibility under Coach Lou Holtz are positive about their experiences at Notre Dame and are emphatic that they would choose Notre Dame over again. 
"In closing, let me emphasize that Coach Holtz has done the three things Notre Dame asks of any coach-he has lived by the rules, his players have grad­uated, and he has fielded competitive teams." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. 10 3:30p.m. ar rhe Noue Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. a! 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for ncxr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classofieds musr be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 ccms per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER­NEAR NO-Washer and Gas Dryer Full size STUD. TIX BOOK 4 SALE VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS, SAFE, AFFORDABLE, FUR­225; Couch and matching chair 60; 634-4586 Marc I have TWO Northwestern tix, will
I WANTED I 
PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE NISHED APTS. Wilson tennis racket 1 0; Raliegh trade for Pitt or BC tix-Bryan 1190 
RESPONSIBLE, MATURE AND 1 BDRM. -$240, English policeman's bicycle 3-I need 2 NW tix. X-1653 Part time child care person needed NON-SMOKER AND LIKE 755 SOUTH BEND AVE. speed 75.00 Dennis 288-6827 Immediately .20-25 hours per week. TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO· 2 BDRM. -$280, WANTED STUDENT TIX Call 271-1638. TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT. 519 CORBY COLOR TV RENTALS: 19", two For sale: 2 Pitt GA's, 1 Pitt stud. $ 1477$ 
778-2515. DEP. REQ'D. semesters, $99.95 delivered. 13", X-1653. Need 1 NW for student 1-800-582-9320. two semesters, $69.95 delivered. WANTED FSU & USC Gas ask for Carrie -4-4802 Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959. I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL will beat any price 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS! TIXS.272-6306 288-5282 
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING 6 BEDROOM HOME, 2 BATHS, VCR RENTALS: Rent a VCR, two MODELS WANTED for suggestive BREAK TRIPS I SELL ONLY 8 WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO. semesters $99.95 delivered. NORTHWESTERN for sale but tasteful photos in various attire. TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PER PERSON. Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959 232 3736 call273-7074 alter 5 for info. PRICESI BAHAMAS, CANCUN, 2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. NEED 2 FSU TICKETS 
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800-1 BEDROOM, $225 MO. HELPI -ND/FSU MARRIAGE 
PERSONAL
678-63861 ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­'85 Volkswagen Golf. 5-door, five (904) 398-6146. WANTED: BABYSITIER IN MY PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAilABLE. speed, well maintained, not per­HOME 2-3 AFTERNOONS A $$$$ 272-6306. fect. Retail book $1825, wholesale $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ pat is great WEEK. WILL WORK AROUND Looking for a 1993 ND football sea­bk $1175. As is $1000 or $1250 NEED 2 FSU TICKETS YOUR SCHEDULE. MUST HAVE son ticket booklet! Ill fixed. Inquire 289-5979 (904) 398-6146 $5.50 HAIRCUTS OWN TRANSPORTATION AND thanksll call 284-5115 WEEKENDS -RIVERFRONT NEW $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ REFERENCES. NON-SMOKER. $$$$ HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101. VITO'S BARBER SHOP 232-9597. Brother dedicated wordprosser WP-1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
2200 like new. Perfect for all but Need a set of student tickets. Call 233-4767 MAKE $1,000111 2 ROOMS FOR RENT ON FOOT­computer students. 20 line CRT, 273-6524. Ask for Rich or Bert or ALUMNI (HOLY CROSS HOGS) We Here at Studio-5 are looking BALL WKNDS. 2 MI. FROM ND. adjustable brightness. Daisy-wheel leave message. IRISH MUSIC For NOTRE DAME NEED A 2+ BEDROOM APART­for models to pose for posters-n-eal­NIGEL Y DECOR. PREFER AGE printer, floppy drive; has spellcheck, FANS ONL VIII FRIDAY NIGHT MENT FOR lAST 5 HOME FOOT· enders those interested call us at OVER 30. $100/NIGHT/ROOM. spreadsheet, typer-writer mode. The Madison Oyster Bar BALL WEEKENDS. YOU JUST 271-1371 or come in at 52029 U.S. 277-8340. $500 new, $275. EPIIoudspeakers, Season student tickets for sale, SEAMAISIN SLEEP SOMEWHERE ELSE TO 31 N. Hours are 10 a.m.· 6 p.m. 70 lb cabinets, great bass $200. $130 o.b.o. Call277.4597 alter 6 EARN DRINKING MONEY. SECU­Mon-Fri Propane grill with stove burner, nice p.m. or leave a message. RITY DEPOSIT PAID IN FOR SALE $100. Inquire 289-5979 SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The ADVANCE. CALL (612) 332-1443 $$1 Need NW Tix$$ Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. AND LEAVE NUMBER. WE'LL Call Matt at 1060
FOR RENT TICKETS
CALLBACK. 2 BIKES. COUCH & CHAIR.272-Happy 21st THUMPER, 
.• 
6306 I desperately need 2 MSU tickets. I Love Kelly Johnsonlll EXTERIOR PAINTERS SENIOR STUD TIX BOOK 4 SALE will either buy or tradelllllll\ Please Experienced Student Painters need­PANASONIC KX-P1123 PRINTER NEED, MONEY WANT 2 SELL call-will pay well. Katie ex1.3756 Why is 
· ed to paint South Bend area homes. High quality print-like new,$ 125 BlACK MASTER'S GOWN & NOW. Ritchie Oriol Full or Part Time. Call Tom (evenings) 277-2676 NOTRE DAME HOOD-$150. 634-4694 Senior ticket application for sale so AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS ORIGINAL PRICE $300. THIS ASK FOR DAINA call Leah 284-5334 hot and 1-800-626-6267' WOULD FIT MALE OR FEMALE juicy? "painting America's homes coast to FURNISHED ROOM FOR RENT. UP TO 5'10". CALL 288-6572 Senior ticket application for sale coasr $150/MO. 287-2159. EVENINGS OR 631-1418 DAYS. GRAD TCKT APPL SELL 288-4919 Call John 282-2206 John Schadl 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 The Observer • BOOK MARKS page 17 
JOCK STRIP 
Book's value lies in hidden truths 
his are credentials
Notre. Dam...e .i..snot the last 
when he arrives. 
bastion of There is a certain goodnt;iss in college level of achievement sports... ·· which a student-ath­
If you heli{lve itls lete must reach. then "Under the Notre Dame athletes tarilis}led Dom~" will reach that point. The authors com~
seryeJtS nothing more ~h~n a Chrjf;tma.~ pre., · ·ments concerning ~ent for your favorit~ Holtz have value. 'the accusations that he··
f.J$C gr~d. ..·· .·.. >i 
· ·· ·. · ·. · . would turn his back
!Jl.lrfor ~hgse vvho ..·.·•· 
~d~r~t®d ~ptrep~e's 1tUe on steroi~ USe or give. a~slap 
plfl~e i lle e atlil~~c~. th on th~ h~l1d7 to aplayer ~ho fi .· ·li. "tlJe bl1.1 itnked a dr*g test are seri7 
~:·::·· ···;;/.\···;;;·. ,....· ..
hdok lli~;;IY'lnypl~eme#f .·. at ·.. ·.· . Jnnesota ·:·. wt~h Luther parville ~.D;d th~ suggested. 
~?v¢ t~~~l~h ...· " to ·.PaYp_ ....._..,...·is ~the.~~e ·.·.....· 
0 .Hf~~ ~Yet~ ;lf~~fit b~~ 
P: ···:<''···· ellhita .~~~~ow1tJ~
doesntt !!:tan~ · tthJI.i.• a 'man.' ~tg~aw Jfsa tHo . froiD a · nd .. th~Jbg GQ!-{.l:J:~fs.••: <i··· ...···· ._.····.· :w:U;
itfor y()u.. .. Blit hi(FSUpposed abU$e of • .tiever he players and ?~ll;ches, and his ' 
tioM .... ··.··. he .f\iC mistre~tment 9ftqe ~njured er to~c~ed, Itt th~ d · players are portrayed in the g~lityJn.,~oll~.8~ ~o_.. _u. book in such a• wa)'thatthey re pame s~iii~~ as .a tp.~jot ,Ji~¢d on.Ifa one word d,es¢rip~ · 
ogr~m. void l_}(ap.asteri~k.· tion,. coa~hing. Holtz" Js .. a .... om the N"~t\k '1I.Jnder the coach, a good one. .His tactics ;tarnished Dorne" never men-may he inappropriate to some, 
~ions an infraction whi~h but then those few individuals would force the NCAJ\to feelit are surpassed by hundreds mis.sed a violation by the lri$h. whose respect for Holtz proves that absence tells novels of immeasurable. The same as it Notre Dame's line in the sand, . would be for any highly sue­.. The accusations against the · cessful coach. University can be described in .Notre Dame football and its 9neword~ petty>If Rick ~irer coach has placed itself in a is ·cop.sidere.d a. ~·renegade" .position where it 1llust win. player becaUse he was arrest1 Thanks to thepact with tbe ed at an off·campl,ls party; as bowl alliance, only a seven the hook implies, th~nthe wjil se11son equals a bowl hid state of Washington's should and the millions of dollars that exercise the death penalty on a~company it. And a losing 
•... jt$ pay·to-pla,y quar~rba.cks. football team would never he 
The·authors clalnl that Notre as useful to NBC as the top ten Dame lowere~· its adnlission· teams it bas enjoyed the past standards for athletes when few seasons. ~oltz arrived ~.-1986. Itis evi~ The hook harshly comments qent thatJqe.h:i~h did. TonY that the Irish "made a deal JJro~kst Ri.cky W,aters. and with a devil," Satip.Inthe_form Toll.Y .. J.ll(?e \yere ll()t •Gerry of a commitment to foot})all F~ust players~ Tb.e diffeNmce, · excellence. N(ltre Dame did tbeywere winner$. .. .· . · cut a deaL ·t\t·some Poin.t the 
) 
)Jut Winners notonly on the . ·emphasis of the Unfyersity fi~:~l({; Notre Da.me ranks third sh.ifted to keep up with the iif ~raduation rate among changing face of college foot­Divisiottl schoolsind has the ball. highest finishing rate among Itis relevant if' the shiftsur­A:frican Americans. A tnain passes the goal to educate and obj¢ctive of the athletic schoF if the Irish· fan·· on· the·ust of ~;~,rship is to giye an individual NCAA violators, 
•an. (lpportunity to .get. an edw· ~ati?U.· Notre D(l..me does one ... College football is dirty. l:Je~ter, it ca.n almost gparantee "Under the Tarnished·.Dome" 
a: player will grad\late. . makes Notre Dame and Lou 
lfthe player brought in.can't Holtz look dirty. But while col­read when he arrives here~ lege football is covered in a hl.lt c;an compete in colleg•J permanent sooh Notre Dame 
.classes when he }eaves and and Holtz have spread a film hasp~ssed classes.with other of dust across themselves ·stti.dents. then who 
~ares. what whiCh can be wiped away. 
universities. "Playing football provided success for Notr_e and academics is hard," says Dame, but with some conse­Cegielski. "They get around it quences. just like any other school." Tony Brooks and Ricky Wat­
It is this point that the Looney ters, both drafted into the NFL, and Yaeger dwell on through­are examples of the type of out the book. "Americans have players that brought the team always thought that in a sea of talent -and a fair share of ugliness in college football, at trouble, including bar fights, least they could believe in the drinking and driving, drugs, lagoon of beauty at Notre theft and "inappropriate behav­Dame," they write. "Time was, ior -to be charitable -with they could. Now, they can't." women," the authors report. 
Yaeger and Looney say a new type of recruit -no longer Looney declined to comment good, balanced kids but premi­about the book until Sept. 7. um athletes that tend to get and Yaeger could not be themselves into trouble -has reached at press time. 
Experienced reporters use aggressive tactics 
By BRIAN KUBICKI Associate Spans Editor 
When Don Yeager and Douglas Looney began writing the book "Under the Tarnished Dome: How Notre Dame Betrayed its Ideals for Football Glory," they knew what they were doing. Both entered the project experienced with both jour­nalism and college athletics. 
Yeager, a Ball State University graduate, is identified as an investigative journalist on the book's jacket and is noted as author of two previ­ous books. Those books, titled "Undue Process: The NCAA's Injustice for All" and "Shark Attack: Jerry Tarkanian and His Battle with the NCAA and UNLV," also deal with controversial topics within the NCAA. 
Looney's experience as a senior writer for Sports Illustrated since 1975 is no less significant to the writing of "Tarnished Dome." He lives in Boulder, Co. while Yeager is from Tallahassee, Fla. 
For this work, the authors adopted an aggres­sive style of questioning. Some of the people interviewed said that the questioners would make a statement and then ask them to respond. 
In the case of Tony Rice, former Irish quarter­back. that statement was false. "Looney called me. He wanted to verify the fact that when I came to Notre Dame I wasn't able to read," Rice said. "All I could do was sit back and laugh." 
Former strength coach, Jeff Raridon received similar treatment during his interview. "It was like they were baiting me the whole time," he said. "They started out saying they were writing a favorable book about Lou Holtz, then they hit you hard. It's like they were trying to get a rise out of you." . 
The authors were not without a group of peo­ple willing to give them plenty of information. In their acknowledgments, the authors point out that, "the 84 former Notre Dame players who agreed to talk openly and on the record-in the face of the intimidating power of their alma mater-are what made this book possible." 
Notably absent from the group of 154 people interviewed is any member of the Notre Dame administration and Lou Holtz himself. Both par­ties declined the interview or comment until the book was released (See pg. 28 for administra­tion's response). 
Of the administration's refusal to answer any questions, Looney told the Daily Southtown of Chicago, "I don't know what they're afraid of. I don't think they're afraid of the questions. They're afraid of the answers." 
Since that time, both authors have been told by the book's publisher, Simon&Schuster, not to talk about the book until Sept. 7. Looney refused even to answer any questions about his personal back­ground for this article. He cited that he was bound by contract not to discuss the book and felt any answers he might give would not be in good faith. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this article. 
Tarnished 
continued from page 28 
book. "I didn't see it necessary to ruin his career by mention­ing things that didn't have to be mentioned. It wasn't going to help my case at the time." 
Although Holtz said the trial proved he knew nothing of the payments to players, Darville ­and former players Roselle Richardson and Tony Hunter ­told the authors that Holtz knew about the money. 
"Look, Holtz knew absolutely everything," says Dr. Rob Hunter, Minnesota team ortho­pedist during Holtz's tenure. "He knew everything down ,to the pennies. So for him to say he didn't is completely ridicu­lous." 
After leaving prison, Darville said he sent Holtz a letter seek­ing help. "I am now seeking employment in Nassau, Bahamas. and I would be most grateful if you would support my candidacy for employment 
Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information
in whatever business estab­
lishment that you can," read Jeff Kunz is one of eight players who admitted to using steroids under the letter provided to Yaeger Lou Holtz. and Looney. good. If not, that person was Dame for Purdue and Erik Holtz replied, offering a letter history." Simien transferred to the Uni­or phone call of recommenda­Eight former Irish players -versity of Nevada-Las Vegas. tion, but not the job Darville ex­Jeff Pearson, Marti Lippincott, Elsewhere, the book accuses pected. Jason Cegielski, Jim Baugus, Notre Dame of lowering aca­Through much of the first Kurt Zackrison, Dan Quinn, Jeff demic standards in order to re­part of the book, the authors Kunz and· Ron Weissenhofer -cruit the best players, pointing analyze Holtz's coaching tech­acknowledged using steroids to Holtz's first recruiting class, niques. Players say Holtz led while playing for Holtz. Several which included Proposition 48 them off the field by their face others told Yaeger and Looney players Tony Rice and John masks, spit on players, and that steroid use among players Foley. Both failed to meet the tackled former quarterback was rampant. NCAA's minimum standards of Tony Rice during il practice. Cegielski said he tested posi­700 on the SAT and a 2.0 grade "It was a screaming mad, tive for steroid use his fresh­point average. cursing Lou Holtz, who came man year. and received only a "It does seem they're more flying out of nowhere, throwing "light slap on the hand" -lit­willing now than ever to let an elbow to the head of his star erally -from Holtz. people in who wouldn't have quarterback," the authors Williams said at least 40 to 50 gotten in in the past just to play write. of team members were using football," says former player Other players accused Holtz steroids. "By my second year," Tom Thayer. "If they're sacri­of forcing them to jeopardize adds Pearson. "I'd say almost ficing academics for winning their future by playing hurt. "If all of the linemen -especially some ball games, that's not you were hurt under him, it those who were starters -right." was like you committed a mor­were doing them. And every­Downplaying the validity of tal sin," said offensive lineman body knew it. It was really kind graduation rates, they argue John Askin. "You felt embar­of, I guess, an open secret." that the University is easy to rassed because you were in­Although 84 former Notre stay in and that coaches see to jured. I mean, you felt really Dame players agreed to talk to it that their players don't fail embarrassed. So what you the authors on the record, out. "The problem Notre Dame would do is come back before many of the charges about -and every other football you were ready." Holtz's coaching come from power -faces is that aca­Hunter described his conflict players that left the University demics are always going to be with Holtz -which led to his before their eligibility was up. an impediment to college foot­dismissal -over the treatment Quinn was expelled after a ball," write the authors. of injured players. "He was al­female student at Saint Mary's Former players Jason Cegiel­ways wanting to act like a fa­College accused him of attempt­ski and Dan Quinn go on to re­therly figure, but what it really ing to have sex with her against port "rampant cheating" that was, was Lou hyping Lou," her will. Pearson transferred to goes unpunished and argue Hunter told the authors. "If a Michigan State after suffering a that Notre Dame is no more person would advance him, knee injury, Cegielski left Notre sound academically than other 

continued from page 28 to just keep getting better." team. "We really have a problem on correct footwork and timing. Both players are searching trying to ascertain who is the 
"Coach Holtz was hard on us for confidence from their coach leader of this football team," today, but he demands a lot of and their teammates after the added Holtz. his players, especially the quar­team had made an adjustment terback," said Failla. to the notion that Powlus would Both players ran equal time 
"Coach is just trying to get be leading the offense this sea­with the first-string offense, but 
Chicago Tribune campusdelivery•••a part of college life! 

M
~ke the Midwest's premier newspaper a part of your college lite ~nd save up to 50'!1. off the regul~r campus delivert price. Subscribe and enjoy the corrvenience of Mving the Chicago Tribune delivered to your residence hall or apartment. 
Transmitted via satellite to printing sites throughout the Midwest, the Chici!gO Tribune gNeS you complete c011erage of late-breaking news and features, 
,.. Chosen i¥.i having one of the nation's ten best dally and Sunday sports sections by the Associated Press. Get campus delivert. spectacular college and pro sports c011erage and color photos of the NCAA, Bulls, Bears and morel 
,.. Comprehensive c011erage of leading popular mus~e, 
movies, art, and trends. 
,.. Expert business and financial reporting for 
successful career planning! 
,.. Insights and amusement from award-winn1ng columnists and comics, Mike Royko, )Inn Landers, Bob Verdi, Calvin and Hobbes, Doonesburt and Cathy! 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune, 2000 York Rd., Suite 124, Oak Brook, 1160521-0001 
FOR THE BEST DEAL, PAY IN ADVANCE FOR 32 WEEKS! 
o I want to subscribe to the Chicago Tribune for a FUU-TERM (32 weeks) at a 50% savings. Deliver: 
o Dai~ on~ (Man-Sat) 0 Da1~ &Sunday 0 Sundayon~ 
Campus Delive!y $76.80 Campus Delivery $121.60 Campus DeiM:ry $48.00 Students pay only $38.40 Students pay only $60.80 Students pay only $40.00 
o I want to subscribe to the Chicago Tribune for a HAlF-TERM {16 weeks) at a 40% savings. Deliver: 
0 Dai~ on~ (Man-Sat) 0 Oat~ &Sunday 0 Sundayon~ 
Campus Delivery $38.40 Campus Delivery $60.80 Campus DeiM:ry $24.00 
Students pay only $!24.00 Students pay only $36.00 Students pay only 24 
' .oo CALL
Payment by: OCheck 0 MasterCard OVISA 0 Amencan Express 0 OISCO\Ier Card Account No .. _________________________ 
1·800·
Signature'-------------------------­
Name,__________________Year in schoo.l_____ 
Address/Dorm,________________.......J 
,TRIBUNE
City•________________State__ZIP•-------I 
: (1-800-874-2863) 
~~i----------------------------I Th~ offer is valid only outside !he Chicogo Tribuno 8-<:ounty pmrery moil<et .,.. In.,.., where hom< dcliv<ry 
:ask for operator 150 
~not ava1loble, moil subscriptions Will b< offered. ThiS offer e><plfes December 31, 1993 01'150 1 I P3223 
----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer/Brian McDonough Junior Paul Failla will challenge senior Kevin McDougal for the quarter­back position. McDougal is expected to start Saturday, although both should see extensive action. 
I. 
------------·-------------------··­
---~~~­-----------~---~--~-£_____ ----------­
----~----·-------. -­RECREATIONAL SPORfS UNIVERSTIY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTRAMURALS CLUB SPORTS CHALLENGE U FITNESS 
RECREATION SERVICES 
LOCATED IN THE JACC 
1ST FLOOR 
COLLEGE 
STUDENTS! 
r 
PAGERS $7.00 
per month* (Purchase at $89) 
WHILE THEY LAST! 
PageAmerica 
*based on school year. 
some things straight," said with who throws better or runs McDougal. "I think he a lot of the option to the utmost perfec­confidence in us, but we have tion, but who will lead his
QBs 

lver Get Somebody Totol~ Wasted! 
fRifNOS UON'l lfl fRifNOS URIVf DRUNK. 
son. Holtz has already stated that 
"I feel the team still has confi­McDougal will start, but Failla 
dence in me," said McDougal. will play in Saturday's matchup 
"But I need to go out on with Northwestern. 
Saturday and do what I can so "I am confident. I have 
that he (Boltz) will have confi­worked really hard, and I can't 
dence in me." wait until Saturday," added 
Holtz is not truly concerned Failla. 
r--~-------------------~;-, 
c,ou'Qo 'Pol} 
Subs • Salads • Pizza 
at Martin's Plaza SR 23 & Ironwood 
Welcome Back Special 
any foot long cold sub 
$399 
\ . with purchase of a 22 oz. medium drink 
((_C--'~'y (must present coupon for this special) 
co~ o~
'Pol} expires 9-15-93 c,O\).'Q 
L-------------------------~ 



., 
t/ Over 40 Aerobics classes per week t/ Weight Loss/Gain Programs t/ Sports Conditioning 
t/ R<zC!bOk Step Classes t/ Schwinn Airdyne Ergometers t/ Universal and Camstar Equipment t/ Nutritional Supplements & guidance t/ Over 25,000 lbs. of free weights 
t/ Weekend Aerobics t/ Individualized exercise programs and t/ ~Tanning Center
t/ State of the art Aerobics Platform 
. personal supervision t/ Juice Bar and Nutrition Center .)
t/ ~cardiovascular equipment t/ iCIVtiAN• pin selectorized resis­including 
tance equipment t/ Sportswear & Accessory retail areasteps, cycles, rowers and treadmills 
Use of over 1,500 facilities world-wide 
I s.t ij • ) & ; t~ \ 8 t i $hi A t \ !f Ff>'C •li w$1 
FREE 2-WEEK TRIAL MEMBERSHIP 
THIS NOTE IS LEGAL TENDER FOR ALL DEBTS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE 
J~~~~~~~~~ 
AskAbout Our Student Rates 
page 20 
The Observer ·BIG 10 FOOTBALL Tuesday, August 31, 1993 
Winning the national title is Michigan's only goal 
A...ociatrd Press championship has been in the One of the biggest determi­will really build confidence in 
•...~;;~ 

back of the players' minds in the past, this year, the seniors are voicing their aspirations. 
"Our motto is, 'We want it all,"' co-captain Ricky Powers said. "I've been here four years and all we talk about is Big Ten championships. We want more." 
Coach Gary Moeller said Monday he is pleased with his team's enthusiasm, but he hopes the players can maintain it. 
"I think everybody starts to talk about (national champi­onships) early in the season," Moeller said. "They know we've got a long way to go. I want to see where they are in October and November." 
nants on how the Wolverines will progress this season is the offensive line. Left tackle Trezelle Jenkins is the only returning starter from last year. 
Much of the responsibility of this year's line will fall on senior center Marc Milia. Milia will have to replace All­American Steve Everitt, who now plays for the Cleveland Browns. 
"There's a lot of pressure on me because I'm the only fifth­year senior," Milia said. "These guys realize they have the tal­ent the other guys had, they just have to reach their poten­tial. 
"I think our running backs 
Flower Delivery 7 Days P@'SY .tJ ~i}tth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses 
Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 
(219) 277-1291 
51400 31 North 
1-800-328-0206
South Bend, IN 46637 
our line, because you can fall off a block and Tyrone (Wheatley) can still break it 80 yards," Milia said. "That makes you feel really good." 
Starting linebackers Steve Morrison and Matt Dyson have missed most of preseason prac­tice with injuries, but Moeller said the two should start prac­ticing this week. 
"I won't know how much they'll be able to play until later this week," he said. 
The Wolverines finished two­a-day practices last week. ''I'm really glad it's finally game week," defensive lineman 
Michigan Sports lnformallon 
Buster Stanley said. "I can't 
Senior Tyrone Wheatley hopes to
wait until Saturday to put on 
help Michigan to the national title
the pads." 
in 1993. 
John P. O'Malley 

Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
ri.L.......... 
Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ••for John O'Maley. 

Remnant Sale 1 5 °/o to 25°/o off 
our already reduced prices 
277-9711 
•Carpet • Vinyl 
Mon.-Fri -9 -8:30 
•Wood • Ceramic Sat. 9-5:30 
• Area Rugs Sun. 1 -5:30 
Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 


Douglas Road east to Grape, turn right (south) onto Grape Road, 1/2 mile on left at stoplight, turn right for the best deals on carpet. Note: Edison Road is under construction and is closed between I ron wood and Hickory. 
BETTER PRICES AND SELECTION THAN ANY CARPETS BEING SOLD ON CAMPUS WHY SPEND MORE ? 
------~----~-~~----~­

SP.eedUpYour College Courses. 

$9.99 Each,GreatBuy 
AP File Photo 
Steffi Graf cruised to a first round win over Robin White at the U.S. Open. 

1{appy rBirtfu{ay, 
Mo{{ie We Love You! 
Mom, 'Dad 
and Marl( 
(8-31-72) 

Hamilton Beach 
hand blender 
makes drinks, 
dips and more. 
Hamilton Beach 3-speed hand mixer. 

Hamilton Beach can opener with knife sharpener. 
Advertised prices good through September 25,1993. 
page 21 
Graf rolls, Seles rails as U.S. Open begins 

By STEVE WILSTEIN Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Monica Seles talked almost as long as Steffi Graf and Martina Navratilova played, upstaging them on the first day of the U.S. Open and taking swipes at her peers without lifting a racket. 
Graf dashed off in a hurry, dinner waiting. She beat Robin White 6-3, 6-0 in 42 minutes 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Day Editors 
Applicants must be available weekday afternoons. For more information, call Jennifer Habrych at 631-4540. 

Monday and felt ready to play her next match right away. She could have won three matches and still not missed evening appetizers. 
Graf covered the court with such speed and ease there wasn't a hint of the swollen bone in her foot, which required ice and anti-inflam­matory drugs after she won the French Open and Wimbledon. There's a danger, though, the hard courts in New York could take a toll on her foot toward the end of the two-week tour­nament. 
"I hope it won't come back," she said. "There is nothing that really bothers me right now." 
With most of the marquee players off until Tuesday, fans spent more time hobnobbing at the gourmet emporiums and sipping champagne than they did watching the lackluster matches. And behind the scenes, the main buzz was about Seles, who returned to the Open a year after winning it for the second straight time. 
Exactly four months had 
passed since a man obsessed 
with Graf stabbed Seles in 
Hamburg, Germany. And the 
shock of that event and the 
emotions it brought out in 
other players have given way to an uncomfortable frostiness. 
Graf hasn't seen Seles, spo­ken to her or even sent a get­well card since an emotional visit with her in the hospital shortly after the attack. 
-· 
"It would have been nice of her if (she sent) a letter or something after that, if she could have asked how am I doing," Seles said. 
Most of the other top players sent letters or faxes but kept their distance, as she has from them by isolating herself dur­ing recuperation in Vail, Colo. 
Seles expressed annoyance with the women for voting not to freeze her No. 1 ranking-if not alone, at least as co-No. 1 with Graf. 
"I think for me (the vote) was very hard," Seles said. "Because the person who did this to me stabbed me for that reason, and pretty much he got his wish." 
Graf, who won the French 
Open and Wimbledon in Seles' 
absence and is heavily favored 
to win again in New York, 
offered no support for placing 
Seles in a special category to 
preserve her No.1 ranking. 
"You've got to understand," 
she said. "All of us, we have to 
play all year long. I mean we 
all have to struggle through 
injuries, through our problems, 
through tough matches and ·­
through tough tournaments. 
You know, it has been a very 
sad incident and it is tough for 
everybody. 
"But I think it is difficult for 
us as players to choose what to 
do. I think it is not up to us. It 
is difficult to say ifit is the right 
thing or not, but I think it has 
been handled as good as possi­
ble." 
Navratilova agreed, !loting 
Seles will be given special pro­
visions for her seeding when 
she comes back. 
"You can't just keep some­
body No. 1 forever," 
Navratilova said. "Hopefully, it 
is only going to happen once, 
and she will have ample time to 
get her ranking back if she 
backs it up." 
Navratilova was surprised 
Seles even showed up at the 
Open, and saw it as a good 
sign. 
-~~--.._.-------­
----------------------~~~ 

• 




I 

PIZZAS aod SUBS 
® INOTRE DAME 271-0300 SAINT MARY'S 289-0033 
#1) What's Bigger than BIGFOOT? 
#2) What's over 2 Feet Long? 
#3) Whathas 
30 Flavor-Filled 
Slices? 
#4) What's the ... 
BEST VALUE 
ON 
CAMPUS? 
SPECTACUlAR 
SliCES Orderwithyour ~[g~favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 
30 inches...That's almost ayard of pizza. 
CHEESE DOMINATOR 
$8.95 
EXTRA TOPPINGS.••$1.00 EACH 

ZESTY ITALIAN {Lettuce-Onions-Tomatoes) 
HAM & CHEESE {Lettuce-Onions-Tomatoes) 
TURKEY BREAST {Lettuce-Onions-Tomatoes) PHILL Y STEAK {Lettuce-Onions) 
EE ADD ONS: Green Peppers o Mushrooms ~---,....--FR Mayo • Mustard o Oil & Vinegar
-
6" ... $3.49 FOOT LONG ... $5.49 
CHIPS ... $ .60 or DIET COKE ... $ .65 / can ... $1.95/2-Liter 
.. 
(MINIMUM ORDER FOR DELIVERY ... $6.00) 

6.95 2-Toppings 6.95 7.95 Additional Toppings Available -$1.00 each 
GET A 2nd PIZZA (SAME SIZE) FOR ONLY S4o00 MORE!!!!! 
Veggie 7.95 8.95 Meatzza 7.95 8.95 Bacon Cheeseburger 7.95 8.95 Hawaiian 6.95 8.95 Deluxe 7.95 7.95 PARTY PACK* 11.99 13.95 


NOTRE DAME 271-0300 SAINT MARY'S 289-0033 

Aluminum recycUni kits are availDble upon request to all students & faculty. Return bag full of cans for a FREE 2-liter with any pizza purchase. New recycling bag will be given out at no charge. 
EXTRAS 
TWISTY BREAD & SAUCE .... 1.95 Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce Available Upon Request 
GARDEN SALAD & DRESSING •••• 1.95 
COKE or DIET COKE .....65/ can 1.95/2-liter 

Powlus 
continued from page 28 
page 23 
for a high school player to come in on a team and learn a system as complex as ours and compete for a starting position. He was dead-even at worst, for 
and he landed on the shoulder. the race for th.e starting posi­I didn't think it was one of tion." those where you wince," com­mented Holtz. "It was just the The press is unable to talk to way he landed on it. It was one Powlus due to a team rule for­of those freak things that hap­bidding interviews with fresh­
pen. man until after the first game. The Berwick, Pa. native did 
"He's a competitor and attend yesterday's practice, wouldn't throw the ball away. watching from the sidelines. We've always told our athletes quarterbacks are 'live' but "I can't describe how I feel," don't hit them from the blind concluded Holtz. "I have a lot of side or do anything to drive confidence in Kevin McDougal them into the ground. He got and Paul Failla but he (Powlus) hit passing the ball. It's the only was special coming in. It's not time I ever got anybody injured just that he could have made a passing the ball." tremendous contribution to our 
offensive football team, but he 
A bright side, if it can be made an excellent preparation. called that, is that there was no We're not talking about an dislocation of the shoulder so average bird. surgery won't be needed. 
...
Powlus was fitted for a sling "I've never seen anything like immediately after practice to it. The peripheral vision, the immobilize the arm, allowing it quick release, his throwing to heal. motion. I never thought that a freshman could come in at 
"To lose Ron Powlus for the Notre Dame, with the caliber of year, I feel terrible. I feel terri­competition we have, and pick ble for the team and I feel terri­up such an intricate offense ble for him," said Holtz. "He and execute it as flawlessly as has really been an incredible he did." freshman and has done some wonderful things. The South Bend Tribune con­
"I never thought it possible tributed to this report. 
Welcome Students BAPTIST Student Union Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun ~(\ September 1 3 7 p.m. )0 \ at the Center for \)S• Social Concerns  
£[!!£pfnway Cafe} For your entertainment needs ... A variety of premium gourmet deli meats, cheeses, sandwich platters, and party trays, customized to your needs and available in 16" and 12" sizes. 48 hour notice necessary 1. The Cheese Taster 8. The Entertainer A great party nibbler · American, Swiss, Provolone, and Assorted salad sandwiches · Chicken, Egg, and Thna Cheddar cheeses centered with a Cheddar garlic spread salads. and an assortment ofcrackers. Large $34.00 Small $25.00 Large $20.95 Small $12.95 9. Cheese Spread2. The Snacker Cheddar Garlic Spread with assorted crackers. Assorted deli meats and cheeses · Ham, Thrkey, and Large $18.00 Small $12.00Corned Beef, served with American and Swiss cheeses. Large $36.50 Small $26.50 10. The Vel[etable Garden An assortment oTfresh seasonal vegetables with ranch or3. The Deli Sandwich Maker bleu cheese dip. An assortment of meat only · Ham, Thrkey, Corned Beef, Large $19.00 Small $14.00Pastrami, and Roast Beef Large $35.50 Small $29.50 11. Chicken LiverPate' A delightful spread with assorted crackers 4. Cornucopia ofFruit and Cheese Large $19.50 Small $15.00Seasonal fruits with Ci:eddar, American and Swiss cheeses. 12. Smoked Oysters and SardinesLarge $25.95 Small $19.95 Garnished with choppea eggs, onions, and lemon slices. Large $23.95 Small $18.505.ItalianAntipasto . Salami, Pepperoni, Ham, Provolone, and Swu;s cheeses with olives and pepperoncinis. 13. The Seafarer Shrimp TI-ay with cocktail sauce and lemon wedges. Large $37.75 Small $32.95 Current Market Price 6. Mixed TrayDeviled Eggs and Stuffed Celery · a nice addition to the 14. Buffalo Wings deli tray. Secret Recipe! Mild, Hot, or Suicidal served with Celery and Bleu Cheese Large $11.95 Small $9.95 12 Wings $4.75 7. Beefand Ham Rolls 24 Wings $9.00 Stuffed With spiced cream cheese · excellent finger food 50 Wings $15.00 for your party. Large $36.95 Small $21.95 The Lincolnway Cafe' 2524 Lincolnway West Mishawaka, IN 46544 256-7024 Orders accepted Tuesday-Saturday, 8:30am-2:30pm We will deliver to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's with 48 Hours Notice. A $20.00 minimum order is required for our free campus delivery service.  
4219 Grape Road 


Welcome Back ND 
•Now 
over 5,000 CD's in stock 

•Persona/listening 
stations 

•Computerized 
look-up system 

•Up 
to $5 cash for your CD's 

•Cash, 
check, Visa, Mastercharge, Discover 


Hours: Mon -Sat 1 0 -9 Sun 12-6 

$4.99Friday-Saturday 11:00 P.M.-3:00AM. 
When you're out late on the weekend, only one thing is better than a meal at Shoney's. That's breakfast at Shoney's Late Night Breakfast Bar. It's the only place to find over 40 delicious items-bacon, eggs, biscuits, 
fresh fruit and more-for one low SHONE~~ 
price. And it's All-Y~u-Care-To-Eat. 
·-r: 
So stop by Shoneys and d1scover .. the latest m . breakfast. late-Night Breakfast Bar ® 
303 Dixie Way South ~ Southbend 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
No.2 Indiana boots Notre Dame in soccer exhibition 
Observer Sufi" Repon 
The second-ranked Indiana men's soccer team exploded early in Saturday's Golden Boot Soccer Classic and held on to defeat Notre Dame 3-2 in the fifth annual exhibition. 
Todd Yeagley and Brian Maisonneuve each scored in the first ten minutes for Indiana to propel the Hoosiers. 
, 
The Irish responded with two goals from senior Mike Palmer, but the Hoosiers added another late in the opening half to secure the fmal margin. 
Palmer's first goal came at the 33:25 mark on an assist from Josh Landman. His sec­ond goal, 11 minutes later, came off a direct kick. 
For the second straight year the teams battled to a scoreless second half. 
"I was pleased with the indi­vidual things we were trying to accomplish tonight," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "This is a difficult game to play so early in the year, and it's a game where we like to experiment and use different players." 
Veteran goalkeeper Bert Bader spent the first half on the bench in favor of freshman David Smith, who had two saves and allowed two goals. 
Bader played the second half, collecting one save while hold­ing the Hoosiers score.less. 
Notre Dame boasts eight returning starters and fifteen lettermen on their talented ros­ter. 
But the talent wasn't enough to knock off the highly-touted Hoosiers. 
"I credit Notre Dame, we wanted a tough game and we got one," said Indiana coach Jerry Yeagley. "Notre Dame contested every ball. I enjoyed watching them. They seemed a little more agressive than we did tonight." 
The teams meet for real on September 24 in South Bend. 
Raiders to sign Ismail Associated Prest  
LOS ANGELES Raghib "Rocket" Ismail and the Los Angeles Raiders have reached an agreement in principle on a two-year contract that will bring the former Notre Dame star to the NFL team, Ismail's attor­ney Bob Wolff said Monday. Woolf said he expects a contract will be signed in the next few days. But it is not known if Ismail, who played with the Toronto Argonauts of the CFL for two years. will be activated by the Raiders before their regular season opener against the Minnesota Vikings on Sunday. "We don't have any com­ment at this time," Raiders spokesman Al LoCasale said when asked for details. "When there's something to announce, we'll make an announcement." No contract terms were made public, but sources reported Ismail would receive about $3 miJlion for the two years. Ismail's last year in college football was 1991, but he elected to play in the CFL after leaving Notre Dame, where he was one of the most dangerous kick-return and pass-receiving performers in the college ranks. He might have been the No. 1 overall pick in the NFL draft, hut instead signed a four-year contract with the Argonauts on the morning of the draft. The Raiders chose him in the fourth round any­way. Ismail completed two years of the four-year. $18.2 mil­lion deal be signed with the Argonauts and l>wner Bruce McNall. who gave his permis­sion for the receiver-kick ret~ner to negotiate with the Raiders last March.  
Maple Lane Barber Shop serving the NotTe Dame community for over 3 2 years 2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin's) 272--6722  

4:_~1 A~ 
•.~-"' lf30Lmtiful ](3 asl~ets 
t 
Baskets of Gifts for All Occasions 
Parents-Make leaving home a little easier 
SPECIAL OCCASION BASKET 
2 doz homemade cookies 2 large muffins 8 oz snakens 3 fruits salsa and chips 2 candy bars 
2 pkg. gum 
$2395 
Free Delivery On Campus 1· 800· 3 73-9716 
server

is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Day Editors Business Editor Copy Editor Associate News Editors Typists 
Submit a 1 page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough by Wed., Sept. 1 or contact Meredith at 631-5323 as soon as osssible. 
The new 
3-D graphing grade-making easy-learning fast-answeririg budget-pleasing headache-busting HP48G 
Check it out The new HP 48G graphic calcula­tor gives you a whole lot more for a whole lot less than you think. 
Get more 
·Push a button, choose from the pull-down menu, and fill in the blanks. Entering data is that easy. 
·View 3-D graphs. ·Access over 300 built-in equations. ·Perform algebra and calculus 
operations on equations before entering values. ·Enter and see equations like they appear on paper. 
·Work with different trnits of measure. The HP 48G will convert them for you. For example, enter inches, centimeters, yards, and feet, together in one equation ­it'll convert them. 
Get more ... for less ·Compare prices-the HP 48G fits your budget. 
Special introductory offer* When you buy an HP 48G or HP 48GX, you can get free software (plus games!) and a free cable for connecting to your desktop PC. Write programs for the HP 48 using your PC keyboard, 
or store HP 48 files and programs on your desktop PC. 
Pick up a coupon at your college bookstore. 
FJ/o-HEWLETT 
a!~ PACKARD 
~-. 

l•ngle Drafting Supply 
1 ~sJ 
(219) 25&-2459 • 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F BAM-5:30PM SAT9AM-NOON 
*Offer good while supplies last on purchases made from August I, 199:1 Lhrough October 31, 1993. See coupon for terms and conditions. ©Hewl!'tt-Paf'kard Company. PG 12306B 

----------------------~----~~~------~----~---------.----~~--------~~~~----~~----------------~~-.~~------------­
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 
Observer File Photo Eric Danapilis helped the Irish baseball team to another 45-win season and an impressive post-season performance. 

CELEBRATE! 
El IIIII
• 
Dear Students of Notre Dame, 
Welcome, on behalf of the University Libraries! By now you have begun to settle into campus life. As you go through this academic year, I want to be sure that you understand that the library faculty and staff are dedicated to making the Libraries an important element in your academic success at Notre Dame. Toward that end, we offer a broad range of services and hours in our eight facilities. Our staff are eager to assist you, and welcome your comments and suggestions for improvement. Most important, we want to be sure that you never hesitate to ask for help --and that we are prepared to provide that help. 
In order for us to serve you best, we will also need your help. For the sake of other users, we urge that you observe due dates and recalls. We also want you to recognize that the various libraries are places for work--a laboratory for study and research. We therefore ask that you conduct yourself accordingly. We must also remind you ofour food and drink policy, which is designed to ensure litter1ree space for your use and a vermin1ree environment for our collections. Because both these factors are important, the policy will be enforced. We will try to be reasonable in this and ask the same of you. 
One final point. For your convenience and while classes are in session, the Hesburgh Library building is open from 7:30a.m. Monday through Friday and until 2:00 a.m. every night. In addition, I am pleased to announce that the Hesburgh Library will again be open 24 hours during final exam periods. We do this to provide space for study, not recreation or a substitute for dormitory sleeping facilities. Please keep this in mind. 
Best wishes for a successful year. We hope to see you often. 
i~·~rc~~ Robert C. Miller Director ofLibraries 
P.S. For Orientation Tours or UNLOC instruction, inquire at the Hesburgh Library Reference desk, 631-6258. 
page 25 
Murphy predicts continued success 
By JENNY MARTEN but Murphy remains confident. Associate Sports Ediror "There is no such thing as a rebuilding year," ·said Murphy. 
Notre Dame head baseball "If you have a solid program, it coach Pat Murphy likes to pre­is solid from the ground up. We dict things. At the end of the have a solid program. Guys will 1992 season, Murphy promised step up." that his Irish would win 45 Notre Dame's run at a berth games and return to the NCAA in the College World Series was tournament. aided by several guys who 
With a 45-16 record and its stepped up including Matt third NCAA tournament Haas, Chris Michalak and appearance in Murphy's six Danapilis. The Irish ended just years, Eric Danapili-s and one game short of the College Company helped solidify what World Series for the second the prognosticating coach is straight year with Haas hitting calling "Notre Dame's Newest .550 in East Regional games, Tradition." Michalak turning in two gutsy 
Now, faced with the loss of performances on the mound three pitchers and two of its and Danapilis tearing through most consistent and potent hit­the Midwestern Collegiate ters, the Irish appear to be Conference tournament. headed for a rebuilding year, After capturing the MCC 
Theodore M. Hesburgh Library 
championship, Notre Dame headed down to Tallahassee for the East Regional of the NCAA tournament. While there, the Irish crushed Mississippi State and Central Florida and avenged an extra-inning loss to Florida State by eliminating the Seminoles from their own regional before succumbing to Long Beach. 
Several individual players also garnered end of the year honors in addition to selections in the draft. 
Right-fielder Danapilis was named to the 1993 Mizuno NCAA Division I All-American first team as a position player and the Baseball America's 1993 All-American first team as well as being voted Most Valuable Player of the team and the MCC. He is only the third Irish All-American and the first since 1989 when Dan Peltier was likewise honored. 
Ryan Topham was selected as an honorable mention member of the Mizuno USA All­American freshman team for his wo~:k in the outfield and at the plate and as the team's Rookie of the Year. 
The MCC All-Tournament team is dominated by Irish faces including pitcher Tom Price, second baseman Greg Layson, third baseman Matt Haas, shortstop Paul Failla, and outfielders Danapilis and Eddie Hartwell. 
Notre Dame lost a sizable 
chunk of its team to graduation 
and the draft as seniors Chris 
Michalak (A's, 12th round), 
David Sinnes (Blue Jays, 19th 
round) and Danapilis (Tigers, 
25th round) were all picked 
early in the draft by major 
league teams. 
But not before the Irish 
streaked to within reach of the 
College World Series. The post­
season charge started right 
here in South Bend at Coveleski 
Stadium where the Irish 
crushed Evansville 22-5 in the 
championship game for the 
automatic nod to the NCAA 
tournament. 
In its first game in the East 
Regional, Notre Dame dominat­
ed Mississippi State in a 15-1 
victory. Danapilis went 3 for 3 
with three runs batted in, Eddie 
Hartwell went 3 for 4 and Haas 
went 4 for 6. 
In the next game, Florida 
State sent the Irish into the 
loser's bracket of the double 
elimination tournament with a 
7-3 win. Michalak took the 
extra-inning loss after giving up 
a grand slam to Ty Mueller in 
the 10th inning. 
The Irish rebounded in the 
next game with a 12-3 mauling 
of Central Florida. It was an 
extra-base hit parade with 
Danapilis, Robbie Kent, 
... 
Topham, Failla (2) Michalak 
and Hartwell smashing doubles 
and Haas adding a base-clear­
ing triple. 
The winning ways continued 
for Notre Dame as Michalak 
contained the Seminole lineup 
and Haas (3 for 4) drove in 
three of the runs in the 4-3 vic­
tory. 
The euphoria didn't last long 
as Long Beach State sent the 
Irish home with a 13-3 victory. 
Haas hit his fourth home run of 
the year and Michalak hit his 
second double to drive in the 
only Notre Dame runs in the 
second inning. 
The Long Beach State pitch­
ers shut the Irish down from 
there scattering seven hits over 
nine innings. 
This year, Murphy and the 
Irish are looking forward to 
another appearance in the 
NCAA tournament as well as 
playing in their very own on 
campus stadium. 
page 26 The Observer • SAINT MARY'S SPORTS Tuesday, August 31, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Men's tennis practice 
begins Thursday September 
9. Tryouts for aU walkwons will begin at 3:30. Anyone interested in trying out should contact the tennis office at h 6113 or 1-4841, · 
Women's tennis tryouts 
will be Thursday September 9 at 3:00 at the Courtney Tennis Center. Anyone inter· ested in trying out MUST con­tact the tennis office at 1~ 
5149. . 
A lacrosse meeting will be held Friday, September 3 in Loftus for all returning members of the lacrosse team and those interested in trying out. Any questios call coach Kevin Corrigan. 
The hockey team will hold an initial information meeting on September 1 for any student interested in try­ing out for the team. 
Notre Dame SportsInformation is looking for volunteer help for the 1993· 94 academic year. Our office handles statistics, press releases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. Fo:r more information, call Rose at 631·7516. 
Interested in sports writing? 
There will be a meeting today for anyone interested in joining the Observer sports staff at 5:30 in the Observer office in 314 LaFortune. 
•Budget 
airfares anywhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued on-the-spot. 

•lntemationaiiD 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 

•Expert 
travel advice. 


Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travels magazine! 

Nester leaves legacy as Saint Mary's AD 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The woman who devoted the last decade of her career to bringing Saint Mary's sports from the NAIA to NCAA Division III has left for the Ivy League. 
After fulfilling her goals for Saint Mary's athletics, Jo-Ann Nester resigned her position as athletic director and tennis coach to fulflll her own person­al goal of working in the athlet­ic department of a Division I school. She joined the staff at Dartmouth University as Assistant Athletic Director in 
charge  of Compliance  and  
Administration.  
Marv  Wood,  who  has  

assumed the position of acting athletic director credits Nester with much of the success of Saint Mary's athletics. the athletes to know that I Senior tennis player Thayma 
"She came when we had a cared about the program and Darby was shocked and sur­struggling program," Wood that I was always available to prised when she heard of said. "We had good athletes, them." • Nester's resignation. but no organization. She gave us guidance and supervision." Nester's resignation will "She has definitely upstepped 
make an impact on the entire the athletic program," Darby 
Nester had ten goals when Saint Mary's athletic program, said. "She not only put tennis she came to Saint Mary's ten but it will be twice as hard on in Division III but made us a years ago. The biggest of the tennis team, which also lost well known competitor in which was to bring Saint its coach. Division III." 
Mary's up to the Division III II•••••••••••••••••••••••~
level of competition. 
Also ·among her list of goals was the creation of a Saint Mary's Hall of Fame and Monogram Club, both of which were achieved during her tenure. 
"I wanted to develop a real quality program that would attract athletes with the experi­ence to participate and be suc­cessful," Nester said. "I wanted 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP INC. 

~~-=:~!ffi:;:[J 
AUTHORIZED DEALER SALES • PARTS • ACCESSORIES • CLOTHING 
•SERVICE • ASSEMBLY • FREE CHECK UP • • TRADE-INS ACCEPTED • • EXERCISERS • BMX HEADQUARTERS • 
CLOSED SUNDAY & MONDAY  
ROSELAND  MISHAWAKA  
277-8866  259-4862  
135 us 31  3835 LWE  
ACROSS FROM RANDALL'S INN  


O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
$16, $11 non-Saint Mary's students, and $10 Saint Mary's students at Saint Mary's College Box Office. Charge By Phone 21 9-284-4626. 
Look for George's latest album, SUMMER, at your favorite music store. 
Please join us in support ofthe Centerfor the Homeless by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert 
A DANCING CAT PRODUCTION 
WeCoulchit 
eABetterCase 
ForCollege. 


Create your own work center or 
39.99oesk, 30Hx38Wxl9Y.D" shelves with these great-looking, 
19.99 Hutch, 23 1hH x 38W x 100"
high-tech modular units. Priced with room to spare. Choose from 17.99 Open Cube, 15H x 15W x 150" a desk, hutch, open cubes, divided 
2299 Divided Cube, 15H x lSW x 150"
cubes or 2-drawer cubes in white or maple finish.l/2 11 construction. 39.99 2-Drawer Cube, 15H x 15W x 150" 
0 
TARGET. 
RIGHT ON THE MONEY® 
TODAY 
Tuesday, August 31, 1993 page 27 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


BILL WAITERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
• 
'()\lR MS M<t. S\..\?1>\~~. CA\..'1\N, BE\N(;, '{()\.lR ~ \S Dt>D. BfmR GIT NOT AN ElK® RlS\n~. 'tl\11-\ \T-I ~T 11f>NE "ID ~~~{) 
m raus. 
\ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Not affecting 54 Do some 
OF INTEREST
the outcome shirring1 Drink like 34 Makes 57 Comment from Snoopy un-hole-y Garfield & Tank contents, 35 Med. course 58 Dark image sometimes 
36 Maine town 61 List-ending9 Attractive 
37 Buy--ina abbr. 13 "What's in poke 62 Thessalian peak -?" 38 Church path 63 Clark's 1939 14 Otherwise 39 Despot role 15 African 40 Key pie 
64 Houston and antelope ingredient Browne 16 Message from 
41 Actor Pickens 65 Rubicund 42"You've­66 Simon of opera 
heaven? Out on a Limb," fame
18 Produce 1940songpandowdy 43 Coffee-house19 Owns 
DOWN
offering20 Defeat a 45 Got nervous 
1 Mascara 
contract 46 Bandleader? 
recipient
21 Takes a trip 47 Scandinavian 
2 "Johnny's 
23 Lakers' arena 49 Regal name in 
Theme"
25 A Gish, briefly Spain 
composer26 Mountainous 53 Use a divan 
3 Gives compensation 4 Collier's gp. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 People 
& He once had feet of Clay 7"Money-­
24 Stately 42 Expressive 51 Beer head 
everything" 
residence movement 52 Fr.-Belg. river 
a Control 
2&Aian--of 44 Hallow ender 54 Delete a dele 
9 Colonial road 
item ballads 45 Tom, Dick and 55 Kitchen finish 
Harry
-=+::-+:~+=-i 10 Caspian feeder 27-lazuli 48 Workplace 56 Volstead antis -=+:±:-+=+=-! 11 Young 'un 28 Dress with care watchdog org. 59 Hallucinogenic12 Liz has had 30 Storm warning? 49 Singing brothers drug 
some 
31 Sail supports 50"-smile be 60 Inquiring
14 "-, Brute" 
your ..." expressionslll~~~~~mn!lllll 17"Ablewas-l 
32 Veni, translated 
33 Prepared DINING HALLapples for 
r-:-t:=t::±+=-1 22 Start of "Home, Get answers to any three clues
baking
Sweet Home" 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
35ls not well 
-;+.::+::+:-+:::-i 23 Postprandial 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
containers 38Tax man 
scri server! Keep up with the latest happenings from under the Dome. 
Name Mail to: 
Get the news that affects your 
•
Address The Observer 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's student 
P.O. BoxQ
City State Zip
for $30 a semester or $50 a year. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I 
-~ 
L______________________________________________________________________________ I 
" 
SPORTS 
BOOKMARKS
Coach target 
• Value exists in exag­of serious ,........-'1,.,.., truths. 
allegations 
tactics. 
-see pages 16-1 By DAVID KINNEY and GEORGE DOHRMANN Observer Editors "What's most 
----~~~------------­
unsettling is 
"Under the Tarnished Dome: How Notre Dame that Notre Betrayed Its Ideals for 
Dame is 
Football Glory" paints a pic­
supposed
ture of a University obsessed with victory and a coach who to be does whatever it takes to win. 
above
Penned by Don Yaeger and Doug Looney, the book alleges all that Head Football Coach Lou 
thIS. . , 
Holtz knew about a pay-for­play system during his career at the University of Minnesota and that he has abused play­ers and staff and ignored steroid use during his eight­year career at Notre Dame. 
The book, released yester­day, argues that Notre Dame has lowered its standards by admitting players that do not meet tl.e University's acade­mic ideals and by exploiting the business of college foot­ball to fill its financial cof­fers -all to regain the glory of past football success. 
"What is objectionable is not so much that Notre Dame book's_,..IIIIIIII_.UJ does it, but that it pretends it 
charges
doesn't," write Yaeger and 
stem from Holtz'sLooney. 
tenure as head footballHoltz refused to comment coach at the University of Min­yesterday, and ruled his play­
nesota in 1984-85, alleging
ers otT-limits to the media for 
that Holtz knew players
questions about the book. Fa­received money from a slushther E. William Beauchamp, 
fund administered by Luther
executive vice president of the Darville.
University, issued a statement A former Minnesota adminis­for the University. 
trator, Darville was convicted
The authors interviewed 
of embezzling $186,000 of Uni­154 people, including 84 for­
versity money, served 17 
mer Notre Dame players and 
months and was deported to
former head football coaches the Bahamas, his homeland. 
Dan Devine and Gerry Faust. 
He tells the authors thatThe most serious of the 
Holtz pressed Darville to leave 
Prodigy Powlus lost for season 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sporrs Editor 
In what Lou Holtz called "one of the sadder days since I've been in coach­ing" the Notre Dame football team bade farewell to freshman sensation Ron Powlus after a broken collarbone ended his season. 
The 6-foot-3, 210-pounder was run­ning with the scout team against the No. 1 defense when linemen Jim Flanigan and Bryant Young fell on Powlus after he released a pass. The impact when his right shoulder hit the ground caused a break in his clavicle. 
"He was throwing the ball, he got hit 
see POWLUS I page 23 
me' hammers Holtz 
"What is objectionable is not so 
Beauchamp 
the coach out of his testimony during the 1989 trial, and promised to help him get back on his feet after the trial was over. Darville's attorney James Lawton confirmed Holtz's promise. 
"The man (Holtz) did nothing to hurt me and he promised to help," Darville says in the 
see TARNISHED I page 17 
much that Notre Dame does it, but that it pretends it  •Issues  
response  
Notre Dame executive vice­ 
president William E.  
Beauchamp responded to the  
book released Monday:  
"Notre Dame emphatically  
denies the premise of the book.  
"One  The university strives for excel­lence in everything it does,  
reason  including intercollegiate athlet­ 
ics, but never at the price of  
compromising its integrity.  
"The truest test of how ath­ 
letics fits into an institution's  
educational mission is the  
graduation rate for its student­ 
athletes. As long as anyone has  
Dame is  computed graduation rates, those for Notre Dame football  
amazingly  players have ranked as the best or near-best in the nation.  
easy to stay . , tn.  "In the most recent NCAA study, Notre Dame football  
players' graduation rate was  
85 percent, a figure matched  
only by two of the 298 colleges  
and universities surveyed. In  
the same survey, Notre Dame  
has the highest graduation rate  
(90 percent) for African­ 
American football players.  
"University requirements for  
admission and continuing eligi­ 
bility are higher than those set  
by the NCAA. The decision for  
admission is based on whether  
the university believes a stu­ 
dent can succeed academically  
at Notre Dame. All student-ath­ 
letes are enrolled in the same  
academic majors pursued by  
other students and arc expect­ 
ed to graduate in four years.  
"Notre Dame has consistently  
removed athletes from intercol­ 
legiate competition when they  
did not meet their academic  
responsibilities. The unversity,  
in fact, pursues policies which  
often place it at a competitive  
disadvantage athletically in  
order to ensure that its acade­ 
see RESPONSE I page 16  

QBs confident; Holtz is not 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Editor 
Near the end of yesterday's practice, in a moment of fleet­ing rage, a linebacker from the first team defense set his sights on the Kevin McDougal as he dropped back to pass. 
McDougal alertly stepped up in the pocket to avoid the defender and then threw deep downfield. 
"Don't go near the quarter­back," .a coach yelled after the play was whistled dead. And did he ever mean it. 
Both McDougal and his com­petitor for the Notre Dame quarterback position, Paul Failla are as fragile as a Ming vase these days. That particu­lar coach's comments mirror the feelings of the entire team, 
BASEBALL 

SAINT MARY'S
MEN'S SOCCER 
Murphy's predictions 
Nester steps down as
Exhibition loss still a 
come true in post-sea­
Belles's Athletic 
postive for Irish. 
son play. 
Director. 
see page 25 
see page 24 
see page 26 
as the injury to Hon Powlus brought a sense of mortality to the Irish. 
But both quarterback candi­dates are attempting to prove they are anything but mortals in their pursuit of the starting signal-caller slot. 
"Both players feel that they are capable of leading this team to the national champi­onship," said head coach Lou Holtz, after a practice which he characterized as the "one of the worst Monday practices prior to a game I have seen." 
Holtz pushed both quarter­backs hard for the duration of the practice, barking correc­tions at both players, working on correct footwork and timing. 
"Coach Holtz was hard on us 
see QBs I page 18 
Inside SPORTS 
.. 

·I 
~ 

