
Friday, September 24, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 20 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND cracks top 25 with alumni help 
By MICHAEL O'HARA 
News Writer 
After a five year absence from the top 25 of U.S. News and World Report's "America's Best Colleges" survey, Notre Dame has climbed back into a tie for 25th place, partially because of a new formula which takes into account alumni satisfaction. 
The new formula, which ranked Notre Dame third out of the 204 major universities in alumni satisfaction, was an important factor in Notre Dame's jump in the rankings, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. 
"If it [alumni satisfaction] had been in last year's poll the rankings would have been dif­ferent," said Charles Lennon, Alumni Association Executive Director, "Now that it is included I am pleased with how it helps our ranking." 
"It shows the incredible bond the alumni has with the University. It says something for the quality of their education and the quality of their lives," Provost Timothy O'Meara said. 
"I am pleased we are in the Top 25. It shows we are doing things well. I feel it is a reflection of the fact that measuring instruments have changed," O'Meara said. 
Notre Dame reached it's highest rank of 18th in 1988. The following year it fell to 23rd then dropped out of the rankings in 1990. This year, Notre Dame tied for 25th place with Emory University in Atlanta. 
Notre Dame's reappearance after five years is a reflection of the character and work of tha University community, Moore said. 
"Obviously it's because of what we do. Not just because we are Notre Dame. It says something about the strength of our curriculum, faculty and student body. If you combine excellent students with a distinguished faculty and a strong curricu­lum the outcome will be good." By SARAH DORAN Holy Cross Associate in Chile in 1991, it 
"We have gotten better.. .in the past years," Assistant News Editor is exactly that. esc sponsorsO'Meara said. "I believe we have upward mo­"It helped me to find and solidify a bility academically ... We are doing things right For many college students, the direction in my life-not only to make it academically and hopefully" our rankings will thought ofpost-graduate volunteer more service oriented, but to gain more service fair reflect that. work is a new idea brought on by the of an emphasis on community, prayer 
Yet, O'Meara acknowledged that the complex Clinton administration's championing and spirituality," said Laboe, who vol­By SARAH DORAN 
issues involved make ranking changes difficult. the concept of National Service-giving unteered as a high school pastoral Assistant News Editor 
"They [the ranking body] attach different values the project priority, and, recently, a counselor and English teacher in Chile. 
to different factors. I feel we are academically as viable plan. "My experience gave me a critical eye The Center for Social 
strong as some of the other universities that are But service is nothing new at Notre to look at our society," said Laboe. "It Concerns (C.S.C.) is holding a 
above us," he said. Dame-more than 150 of the made me realize that whatever I do in fair showcasing volunteer op­
In an area like academic reputation, there is a University's graduates postpone job life is going to be something where I can portunities for seniors consid­
time lag between when a University improves and opportunities each year in favor of give of myself and make a positive con­ering one or two years of 
when it recognized for its improvement, accord­donating a year or two to a needy com­tribution." post-graduate service work 
ing to O'Meara. munity. Laboe's commitment to service was on Thursday, September 30 
While the ranking system tends to point out "Those who have participated in ser­not something that ended upon his from 7-10 p.m. in the C.S.C. 
where improvements are needed, the introduction vice approach their lives with a differ­return to the states. He spent last year building. 
of the Colloquy for the year 2000 was the result of ent focus," said Mary Ann Roemer, as a teacher in Chicago and has re­100 programs have been in­
the University's move towards the future rather coordinator of senior volunteer pro­turned to Notre Dame this year as a vited to the fair and over 50 
than a reaction to polls, according to O'Meara. grams at the Center for Social Concerns first year seminarian. will definitely be in atten­
"Some of the things [in the rankings], in fact all (C.S.C.) "It's more of a value system that But for volunteer Kathy Doyle, ND '93, dance, according to Mary Ann 
of them, are areas where we want to improve," they integrate into their careers and a service perspective is just beginning Roemer, coordinator of senior 
he said. "However, we are not driven by the into the rest of their lives." to take root, as she is just one month volunteer programs for the 
rankings, but they do concern the University and For Mark Laboe, ND '89, who into a year-long Apostolic Volunteer C.S.C. 
returned from two years of service as a see SERVICE I page 4 see FAIR I page 4
see ND I page 4 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

SMC retains top five status in midwest college rankings 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH last year's second place rank­time. If you look at the polls same areas that the College of Institutional Research. 
Saint Mary's Editor ing, what matters most to the over the years, you see the views as most important. The surveys also indicated 
administration of the College is same colleges appearing and "The central thing that drives that students viewed their pro­
For the seventh time in as that the academic reputation of Saint Mary's is one of them," he what we are doing here are fessors as very interested in 
many years, Saint Mary's was the school has put them in the said. that we are really trying to edu­teaching and that they per­
ranked as one of "America's top 10 since the poll began, ac­The key to maintaining the cate," said Vice President and ceived Saint Mary's as a teach­
Best Colleges and Universities" cording to Brett McLaughlin, academic reputation of Saint Dean of Faculty Dorothy Feigl. ing environment, he added. 
in the Midwest region, falling director of publicity and com­Mary's is that the College has "We bring in faculty where they What is indicated through the 
two spots this year to number munity relations. not become complacent, ac­want to teach and students who polls and surveys is that Saint 
four. "It is a pretty subjective poll cording to Patrick White, asso­are ready to learn." Mary's is fulfilling its mission of 
The College ranked first in that depends on who fills out ciate dean of faculty. Surveys conducted of educating students. 
graduation rate, third in faculty the survey in a given year, so "Saint Mary's continues to Sophomores and Seniors bi­"The focus at Saint Mary's 
resources and fifth in financial we don't take the placement as strive to be better even though annually at the College indicate remains on the students and 
resources used for instruction, serious as the fact that the we are recognized in this poll," that 98 percent of students are education," McLaughlin said. 
student services and academic College has been rated in the White said. "We are still work­satisfied with the faculty at the "(This focus) is not a way to 
support among the approxi­top 10 for the last seven years," ing hard to be the best college College, and that the strength of garner a lot of headlines, but it 
mately 130 schools in its divi­said McLaughlin. that we can be." the faculty correlated with the is the way to educate students, 
sion. "Academic reputations are The areas where Saint Mary's overall student satisfaction, and the consistent rankings in 
While Saint Mary's fell from formed over a long period of did well in the poll were the according to Bill Cash, director 
see SMC I page 4 


Friday, September 24, 1993
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
INSIDE COLUMN 
MTV n1akes 
politics cool 

(huh, huh) 
It all started innocently enough. 
The nation was in a rut, and it wanted out-fast. It was tired. It was old. It was static. Nobody voted. Nobody cared. The solution was simple: empower the youth and get the energy flowing again. And in a heartbeat the race was on for a rejuvenated country with a renewed spirit. 
And so students were brought into politics. Or rather, politics was brought to the students-in a bright shiny package with flashing lights, col­orful imagery and a beat you could dance to. The 80's "greed" generation became the 90's "MTV" generation. 
And Tabitha Soren was our official spokesper­son. 
The crisis of the nation was translated into language that we could understand. And if we still had trouble with the big words, Bill brought in his sax and gave us a private tutoring ses­sion. 
Uh. Huh. Huh. Cool. 

Tuesday, Sept. 21 marked the presidential signing of the National and Community Trust Act of 1993. However modest, this act has the potential to bring real power to America's youth by putting us at the heart of our nation's problems. 
If implemented carefully, the measure will give individuals over the age of 17 the opportu­nity to attack some of our nation's unmet human, educational, environmental, and public safety needs in return for financial assistance to continue schooling. 
In any language, this translates into students as solutions-a serious accomplishment. Our President recognized the magnitude o the occasion. 
He took out his two favorite pens for the event. He prepared a moving, inspirational speech. He brought together young representa­tives of service and service organizations. 
And he invited Soul Asylum to rock the joint. 
The White House staff who organized the event were ecstatic. After all, most of them were in their early 20s. Some of them hadn't even finished college. They wanted to tap into the energy and vitality of the today's youth. They wanted to give the students in the audi­ence something they could appreciate. Something more than a law. Something more than a potential opportunity. 
They wanted a party. 

Wednesday, Sept. 22, the signing ceremony didn't show up on the front page of the Washington Post. It didn't even make the front section. Or the Metro pages. Maybe national service was out-newsed by the dissolution of the Russian Parliament, or by the latest health care update. 
Or maybe, I just wasn't looking in the right place-the Style section. 
"It's definitely the weirdest gig we ever played," lead guitarist Dan Murphy told Washington Post reporter Eric Brace. 
"It's a little surreal," said Tabitha. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics John Lucas Brendan Regan Laura Ferguson 
Production 
Sports Vivian Gembara Jason Kelly Beth Swiney Beth Regan 
IIJustrations Viewpoint Garrett Gray Rolando de Aguiar Etc. Lab Tech Bevin Kovalik Eric Ruethling Elisabeth Heard Chris Weirup 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xccp[ during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pres>. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Committee chooses Sydney 
MONTE CARLO 
Stability prevailed over political risk Thursday when Sydney edged out Beijing for the right to hold the 2000 Summer Olympics. 
In selecting Australia's picturesque harbor city by a two-vote margin, the International Olympic Committee returned the world's biggest sports spectacle Down Under for the first time since the 1956 Melbourne Games. 
"I believe it was a sporting choice, not a political choice," said Italy's Primo Nebiolo, an IOC member and head of track's world governing body. "In the end, the members preferred Sydney because it was a candidate which presented no problems and created no criticism." 
Beijing, considered the slight favorite, has been criti­cized for its human rights record. Concern also may have existed over the uncertain political future in China, ruled by 88-year-old Deng Xiaoping. 
Beijing Jed in three of the four rounds of secret ballot­ing by the 89 IOC voters. But as Istanbul, Turkey; Berlin, and Manchester, England, were eliminated, Sydney pre­vailed, defeating Beijing on the final ballot, 45-43. One voter did not cast a ballot the last two rounds. 
IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch announced the decision live to a worldwide TV audience. 
Moments later, fireworks exploded over Sydney Harbor. About 100,000 people gathered on the water­front greeted the dawn with champagne and blaring horns. 
Beijing offered the powerful symbolic impact of holding the Games of the new millennium in a nation of 1.2 bil­lion people -one-fifth of the world's population -as it opens up to the rest of the world. 
But in choosing Sydney, the IOC went for the safer candidate, a glamorous, cosmopolitan city with superior sports facilities and technology. 
"This decision puts the Chinese leadership on notice that they will pay a price for the continued abuse of their own citizens," said Richard Dicker, a lawyer for Human Rights Watch in New York. 
"If there was a difference in the vote it was clearly between the risk-takers and the non risk-takers," said Dick Pound, an executive board member from Canada who lobbied for Beijing. 
Some IOC members felt 2004 was a more realistic tar­get for Beijing, and Chinese officials said they would con­sider bidding again for 2004. 
Selleck says press needs ethical standards 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Tom Selleck told journalists Thursday that quotes often are altered or omitted to confirm reporters' preconceived ideas and that the press needs ethical standards. 
The actor, best known for the old "Magnum P.I." televi­sion series, participated in a panel discussion of journal­ism ethics at the annual gathering of the Associated Press 
Managing Editors association. 
Selleck said he doesn't want to see the press regulated, but he told the news executives that he has often been misquoted. When he called one national magazine to complain, he was greeted with indignation, Selleck said. 
The magazine later agreed to print a correction and complied by fabricating a letter to the editor and putting 

Selleck's name on it, he said. Selleck, Tom Selleck who's also starred in the films "Three Men and a Baby" and "Mr. Baseball," settled a $20 million libel lawsuit with a supermarket tabloid two years ago. 
He said he didn't file the lawsuit for money or to "bash the press," but to encourage responsible journalism. "The responsibility that goes with the freedom journalists enjoy is so important," he said before APME panel dis­cussion. 
INDIANA Weather 
Friday, Sept. 24 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
ILL. 


jlndianapoli3 69° I 
• 




KY. 

,.,(:") ..r0l ..rf7). rF'I rDI ,..{) * h>.·..·· ,..(""\
~~~~~~~~~ 
S;,;,';e~ T-;t~;,;;s Rain ~~;;:a~ -~~-~· -=;~-=. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNsl C1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 24. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
,....-y-....a.....a_ 
.....-ar 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L a ES'I [Til 0 ~ all <Q ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Chicago 61 50 Miami 86 82 Columbus 68 65 Minneapolis 61 37
City H L 
Atlanta 91 64 Dallas 95 78 New York 71 60Athens 77 59 Denver 64 51 Paris 63 54Ballimore 73 55 London 63 50 Philadelphia 78 56Boston 72 55 Los Angeles 79 59 Tokyo 66 59Cairo 90 72 


AP 

Abused woman strikes back 
A woman who cut off her husband's penis with a kitchen knife says she endured years of sexual and physi­cal abuse before striking back, and sometimes feared he would kill her. 
"He would be on top of me ... and he would use his two thumbs to actually choke me, and every time he did that he hit me," Lorena Bobbitt, 24, told ABC's "20/20" in her first interview since the incident in June. It will be tele­cast Friday night. 
"It felt like there's no air any more. I kind of feel like I was going to pass out, and everything was white... He choked me again and that's how he forced me into sex." 
Bobbitt, faces trial on a malicious wounding charge stemming from the incident, to which she has admitted her involvement. 
Her husband of four years, John Wayne Bobbitt, 26, has been charged with marital sexual assault-a charge he denies. The incident grabbed international headlines and provoked a media debate on relations between the sexes. 
In the interview with "20/20" reporter Tom Jarriel, Mrs. Bobbitt described a pattern of fights and beatings that she said drove her to the mutilation. 
"He told me that that kind of sexual, sex, forced sex excited him, and I would just cry." 
She settled in the United States in 1987, met John Bobbitt and married him in 1989. Troubles began almost immediately, she said. On at least one occasion, he. ~as arrested and charged with assault and battery for h1ttmg his wife in the face. They reunited in September 1992 after one year's separation. The Ecuadoran-born Bobbitt said that after she told her husband she was pregnant he said she would not be a good mother and suggested she get an abortion, which she reluctantly did. 

Friday, September 24, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page3 
Christopher: End war in Bosnia before tragic winter 
• 

By BARRY SCHWEID Colin Powell, chairman of the· Associated Press Joint Chiefs of Staff, in briefing lawmakers about possible de­WASHINGTON ployment of U.S. troops to en­
Appealing for more Serb and force a peace agreement in Croat concessions, Secretary of Bosnia. State Warren Christopher said "We're continuing to follow Thursday Bosnia could be in for the talks," Aspin told reporters "a very tragic winter" if there as he left the closed session on is no negotiated settlement of Capitol Hill. "One day it sounds the war in the former Yugoslav like they're close to getting an republic. agreement, the next day it 
He said a "perfect agree­sounds like it's further back." ment" was not possible, but Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chair­had some hope the Serbs and man of the Senate Armed Croats would show more flexi­Services Committee, said it was bility in response to Muslim unclear whether Congress demands for more territory in would support deployment of 
The Observer/Carolyn Wilkens 

the eastern area of the country U.S. troops in Bosnia. 
and other concessions. "I don't believe people have 
Junior Mindy Montante and Holy Cross Hall director Patty Warfield lend a hand loading the truck bound for 
Only Bosnian President Alija decided yet," Nunn said in an 
flood struck areas in the midwest. The drive to aid these flooded families was sponsored by Student 
Izetbegovic and his parliament interview published in Friday 
Activities, Campus Ministry, and the Residence Hall Association at Saint Mary's. 
have the authority to decide editions of The New York 
whether to accept the latest Times. "It depends on what 
settlement, Christopher told the -case is made by the adminis­
Students rush to pack flood kits 
Senate Judiciary Committee. tration." 
But he seemed to be nudging "My big question will be not them in that direction with the how do we go about it, what By NICOLE MCGRATH admonition "'if an agreement is our goals are, but how do we Saint Mary's News Editor not reached, and it certainly get out if the parties begin will not be a perfect agreement fighting again?" Saint Mary's volunteers if it is, we are in for a very The Serbs and Croats on packed up more than a hun­tragic winter." Tuesday were reported to have 
dred flood recovery kits within Christopher, meanwhile, agreed to allow the small one hour on Thursday, accord­
joined Defense Secretary Les Muslim state that would be left 
ing to assistant director of 
Aspin, U.N. Ambassador after partition an outlet to the Campus Ministry, Judith Fean. Madeleine Albright, and Gen. Adriatic Sea. "I just could not believe it. We 

PUZZLED BY BANNED BOOKS? 
ACROSS John each wrolt l. ___ Stury 29. Aha• lor Dori• Kapprlholl 
I. A~Mricw,. Hrfll•lt --­19. Hcmina••y chlfaclcr'• 6. Jay ,-----) I. Whrrr Ali« had hrr 
•. Dorian'1 crC'alor m&llcu 1. GoC'thf bc1Hcllt'r advent urn 
10. lloaaro/&nll rolm .CI GfPIIIU'\ diUII'Utr I. Woman w11h the .carlct ltllt'r ll. Cor Wont'• crcator 
II. CuAJt ---4l. Euatnc ___ 9. Maya ___ >•. lnfamou• place in tarl)' \Oap
IJ, £,,. ___ 
44. PitI h 't. Jll 12. MIChiJIR·born author )6. 811d1t ru --­/1. Boslutt Cullrc'll w 'J buui ~-lara·, lo... C"r 1). Gavt" U\ Tltr Cn·1111 Trt'f' )7. Rabcla11' laran1 &Ute 
10. 0 'Ho'• 's w., 47 Adom Brdt IUihot 14. Atl" l"uw Tltl"rt --· ll. IXIow B<nch\C'y'• aum•
11. Ndrd ___ 
30. Ont Ot• ov~r 11 /r 's Mt MG'Ifl''' )9. Su rducation book f04" 
ll. Sue Lyon rolr SI. Pall of E. B. Brown•na t1tlt IS. [)r,·omrru" author childrrn 
26. Diary IUihof' 40. ___ Zola
Sl. Oarwln'\ \hNfy Ifa. S4u<b 'Tcr'n\'• \abor 
21. dt M•wtH" II. Author of Ct~11d1dr 41. ___ Fulunr "' 
JO. Word hom S.linan liiiC' DOWN 19. loman'• ptolru1on AmtfiC'G )l. T~ LM~1 --­I. Charlr• S. -..,.--23. Orwell'• farm 44. Royko litlt )), Aulhor of Soup 2. ''A---·" kubnd 24. Robin•on'• la11 name 4S. Luflr Blr~cl. ___ 
H. ICun .--:-:--film 2S. Tratrd.'l .ca. Hardy chiFac&tr 21. Enca'1 fear
31. Malllw•, Mark, Luke and l. Author of Hwm•n Both 49. ___ FIGntHn 
The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Banned Book Week September 25th -October 4th 
Enter the Bookstore Banned Book Week Drawing! Puzzles Should Be submitted To The Book Department Located On The Second Floor. Drawing -October 4, 1993 .-\ $25.00 gift certificate will be awarded to the winner drawn from all correct entries. 
had an assembly line set up the truck and a driver to deliver and the students came the kits to the World Church through," said Fe an. "We Services Organization ware­couldn't move fast enough for house. the people-it was unreal." While Fean said she was not 
The kits were purchased with sure that their services would money from last week's Walk be needed as late as October, it for Flood Victims which began is apparent that they are. at Dalloway's Coffeehouse. "Now that the water is down, Sponsored by Campus Ministry, the insides of the houses are Student Activities and the gutted." said Fean. "These sup­Athletics department, the walk plies will help families until fed­raised $3,200 and approx­eral funding gets to them." imately 50 people participated, As efforts to clean up, rebuild according to Fean. and distribute supplies con­
Fifteen students helped box tinue, no estimated time has up supplies from noon to lp.m. been given for when federal They thought it would take funding will reach the area, she much longer and had more said. than 60 people signed up to According to Fean, more than help, she said. 400 people have been involved 
in financial, time and prayer 
At 10 a.m., the long tables donations. were piled with supplies such "Such groups like the as sponges, personal items, de­Alumnae association, the tergent and bedding. By Sisters of the Holy Cross and 1:15p.m., the tables were Residence Hall directors have empty and boxes were stacked helped out. It has been quite an in a corner of Dalloway's await­effort on the part of the entire ing shipment to Moline, Ill. campus," said Fean. 
Van DynCrotty Inc., a local uniform company, has donated 


Make your next move to Hickory VIllage and discover affordablllty, convenience and comfort. 
We're just minutes from University Park Mall, the toll road, Notre Dame and downtown South Bend. Our beautiful grounds are spacious and well kept ... and we have an activi­ties program that includes team sports, free aerobics classes, and mucl1 more. 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bedrooms from $345 
Pool &Clubhouse • Beautifully Landscaped 
Grounds Laundry Facilities • Balcony or Patio /ldr Conditioning • Close To Shopping 24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Planned Activities with Free A'3robics 
Stop by today and we"ll show you how aHordable apartment living can be. 

:l7:l-1SS() 
+llCKORU 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6, S<Jt. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 

--~ -~-­
sift through programs and de­cide on one that is right for
Court convicts ln1elda Marcos Service 
them. 
By ROBERT H. REID 
Associated Pross 
MANILA 
A Philippine court convicted Imelda Marcos of corruption Friday and sentenced the for­mer first lady to nine to 12 years imprisonment for each of 
two counts of corruption. 
The convic­tion ended the first criminal trial in the Philippines for the widow of former strongman

F e r d i n a n d Imelda Marcos Marcos, who was accused of massive corruption during his long rule. The government has strug­gled for years to pursue Mrs. Marcos and is still trying to re­cover some of the estimated $10 billion it says was embez­zled during his 20-year rule. The three-judge Sandiganbayan, which tries of­ficial corruption cases, also convicted former Transport Minister Jose Dans on the same counts, and also sentenced him to nine to 12 years for each 
SMC 
continued from page l 
polls such as these (that mea­sure academic reputation) demonstrate that the College is certainly doing that," he added. 
Investment in the students and faculty even in tough eco­nomic times is one way in which Saint Mary's has main­tained its academic reputation. 
"When a lot of schools have been cutting back on faculty and student development we have been awarding teaching and research grants to improve the courses and teaching meth­ods," White said. 
Through these continued ef­forts, White said that the College will remain in the spot­light. 

"The College is a vibrant, liv­ing thing that is constantly moving and developing new ways of thinking," White said. "This is part of the spirit at Saint Mary's and it is reflecting in the rankings." 
The survey was conducted in the spring of 1993 by Market Facts Inc. for U.S. News & World Report. The rankings are a result of more than 2,600 surveys distributed to college presidents, deans and admis­sions directors within the col­lege's division. 
count. 
The two are accused of enter­ing into five "unfavorable" con­tracts involving the govern­ment-run commuter rail line and the Philippine General Hospital Foundation Inc. 
They would have to serve at least 18 years, court officials said. Mrs. Marcos' lawyer said she would appeal the convic­tion. 
Shouting "Imelda not guilty," about 100 supporters of Imelda Marcos tried to storm the gates of the court compound when they heard the verdict over a loudspeaker set up outside the courthouse. 
Earlier, a few dozen support­ers of former President Corazon Aquino also picketed the area and were chased away by the Marcos loyalists when they unfurled a banner saying "Return Stolen Wealth." 

A popular revolt led to Marcos' ouster in 1986 and to Mrs. Aquino's installation as president. Marcos died in exile in Hawaii in 1989. 
The court permitted a previ­ous bail bond to stand, which allows Mrs. Marcos to remain free pending an appeal of the judgment. 
Mrs. Marcos immediately left the courthouse, and waved and smiled to her supporters as she was driven away in a white lim­ousine. 
Court officials said Mrs. Marcos presented no evidence during the trial and cannot claim she was denied the right of defense. Mrs. Marcos said her lawyer, Antonio Coronel, had been suspended from prac­ticing law for a technical viola­tion and that she was too busy planning the funeral of her hus­band. 
continued from page 1 

program of working with f~Jmale prisoners in the Chicago area. 
"So far, I love it-it makes me grateful for everything that I have," said Doyle, who is in­volved in literacy promotion and drug and alcohol preven­tion programs within the pris­ons. 
"Working with criminals is definitely an eye-opening expe­rience," she said. "I have be­come much more aware of this group that is the target of so much discrimination in our so­ciety." 
The awareness that Doyle has developed after such a short time in a service program is the most common effect on volun­teer participants that the Center for Social Concerns sees-whether it be during or after their commitment. 
"Our volunteers look at ser­vice from an analytical per­spective," said Roemer. "They pursue it intellectually, by look­ing at the causes of the sit­uations they come to live within and the solutions. 
"They are an ongoing value to this University." 
Opportunities for post-gradu­ate service work are endless at the C.S.C., said Roemer, who helps perspective volunteers 
Service cites stretch through­out the United States and around the globe, offering a va­riety of different focuses. Various program emphasis ranges from that of the faith based and community oriented Holy Cross Associates and Jesuit Volunteer Corps to the non-eccumenical Teach for America and the Peace Corps groups, she said. 
Encouraging the involvement of students from all back­grounds, Roemer added that not only is C.S.C. involvement not a pre-requisite for service participation, but also that vol­unteer work is a beneficial ex­perience regardless of a stu­dent's future career goals. 
"We are finding that so many companies are placing extreme value on people who do this­enough so that last year four accounting majors were grant­ed job deferrals from firms to participate in a year of ser­vice," she said. 
But, as many participants have learned, the value of serving others for an extended period of time is really immea­surable. 
"The inherent value in ser­vice work is in the desire of giv­ing of yourself," said Laboe. "Regardless of one's career goals, it's a beneficial experi­ence." 
Fair 
continued from page 1 
Over 400 seniors attend the fair each year, she said. 
Opportunities for service run the gamut from faith and com-

The Computer Applications Honor Society Presents 
Ford Motor Company 
Monday September 27, 1993 7-8 pm Hesburgh Library Lounge 
All Are Welcome!!!! 
Refreshments will be served. 
LAFAYEnE·s HOTTEST COUNTRY NIGHTCLUB NOTRE DAME vs PURDU~ COME RIDE THE .............. THIS WEEKEND ... (only mechanical bull in Indiana')• 2 GOO SC\ f\ ' d dance t\oor hardWO~Ui -in house PIZZA r I oARi pOOL iA~~io-GAMES eoAROS-OPEN West~ IndianaFRI 6pm-3am SAT 5pm-3am located behirid SEARS in (317)7 43-6081 LEVEE PLAZA  

A.lliLIKE .-CIMMPION 
TtJfMII 
Tlae MoUo Tlaat Motivates· 
Is now available on over 30 items, each one a collectable. All have been carefully designed to inspire a feeling of pride each time its worn or displayed. 
To Get Your Free Color Brochure 
Dial 
Distributed by:

1-800-597-2461 
AP Image Team, Inc. 
Michiana residents 

209 E. Colfax Ave.-2nd Floor Call 233-9487 South Bend, IN 46617 
Look for theN' Image Logo on the tag, ~·s your guarantee of qual~y. Why settle for second best7 
Play L.o~ a Champoon Today. ""pendong 


ND 
continued from page 1 
if we are not in the rankings we want to know why," he said. 

Admissions could also be af­fected by the ranking change, as they may have been when the University dropped out of the ranking, according to Kevin Rooney, Director of Admissions. 
There was a drop in admis­sions after Notre Dame's drop for the top 25, although there was also a corresponding drop in the number of graduating munity related organizations to government sponsored pro­grams, she said. 

Programs to represented at the fair include Holy Cross Associates, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Habitat for Humanity, Covenant House, and Christian Appalachian Project. 
seniors, he said. 

"It could have played a role," he said, "and it will be an inter­esting test to see if the number of applications rises signifi­cantly." 
However, Moore said any rankings should be taken with a grain of salt. 
"Universities and colleges are so different, institutions vary widely in what they do, so that standard criteria is difficult [to establish]," he said. "We [the University] have more impor­tant things to worry about than where someone puts us in a ranking. 

Friday, September 24, 1993 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS pageS 
SM C program adopts service groups 
By LYNN BAUWENS News Writer 
In order to raise students' awareness of the local commu­nity, Saint Mary's Campus Ministry is sponsoring an adop­tion of area service agencies, according to Scott Holmlund, director of the program. 
The congregations of each of the three Sunday evening litur­gies will support an agency during the year through prayers and donations. Adopted agencies include Hospice by Le Mans, AIDS Ministries by Holy Cross, and the YWCA Women's Shelter by Regina. 
The idea for the project origi­nated several years ago and stems from Campus Ministry's attempts to incorporate social justice issues into the weekly liturgies, according to Holmlund. 
Last Sunday, representatives from each agency spoke during the masses to speak about their missions in the community. Sam Oliver, a representative from Hospice which serves ter­minally ill patients and their families, spoke about the need for care and compassion. 
"We could not exist without the community and without vol­unteers. We service the com­munity and in turn, we are ser­viced by it," Oliver said. 
Coordinators of the program are hopeful that both the agen­cies and the students will bene­fit from the exposure to one another. 
"We hope to get people excit­ed, and to want to want to help out local agencies," said Stephanie Drummer, student coordinator of the Regina litur­gy. 
Future activities planned by Campus Ministry to support the adopted agencies incfude guest speakers, donations, publicity to raise awareness, and oppor­tunities for student!) to volun­teer time. 
LaFortune opens trial pe_riod of 24-hour space 
By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
For the first of four trial peri­ods, the first floor and the base­ment of LaFortune will be open 24 hours tonight and Saturday. Last night was the first evening of the trial extension. 
Although food services will 
~.. 
not be availible, the area near the information desk and the basement space directly below that will be available to stu­dents for an additional five hours on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. 
The 24 hour plan is only scheduled for the next four weekends because Student 
Hope you get lots of orange jello on your bi rthdayl 
Loft of love, Baker, E, Donz, Beth &Nora 
Government needs to evaluate the response to the extended hours. 
"We definitely need to rally the students to get over there to show the administration that we really want it," said Nikki Wellmann, student body vice president. 


SURV organizes SMC volunteers 
By ELIZABETH REGAN Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center (S.U.R.V.) at Saint Mary's would like to establish a solid base between student volunteers, resources and publicity this year, accord­ing to senior Kristin Johnson, 
S.U.R.V. director for the 1993­
94 school year. "Our main goal is to promote 
S.U.R.V. as an organization," said Johnson. "Service is. an integral part of learning in col­lege, and there are a lot of op­portunities both in South Bend and nationally that we can ben-

Sophomore Nick Bigelow puts his excellent grilling skill to use dur­ing the Keenan Hall Big Brother Cookout yesterday. 
efit from." 
The organization is set up as a referral system for students that are interested in volunteering but do not know where to turn, according to Johnson. 
S.U.R.V. plans to target cam­pus clubs for volunteers by fmding groups that have some­thing in common with the clubs. 
"Our big problem is getting volunteers," said Johnson. "Ideally, we would like to see students volunteer for one hour each week." 
Johnson is planning a 
S.U.R.V. week for later in the semester. 
"We would like to bring speakers on campus, and have social events revolving around service, during that week," Johnson added. 
Plans for another Saint Mary's service organization, the Christian Service Center to be run by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, are being formulated. The Christian Service Center will provide further information and resources for students interested in serving the com­munity. 
"I am not sure how S.U.R.V. will fit in with the Christian Service Center," said Johnson. "Hopefully we will mesh and work along with the Sisters." 
"I have real ambitions for this organization and hopefully with the support of the student body at Saint Mary's many of them will be realized by the time that I graduate," said Johnson. 

~N Es,o...., 
,. -"1) ~ ' 0
:E Spanish Mass r­
domingo, 26 de Septiembre de 1993 
11:30 a.m. Pasquerilla East Chapel 
Celebrante 
Padre Richard Wilkinson, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Mike McTague, Proprietor, has created the ultimate atmospherefor allfootballfans. The new WIGS Village Tavern is greatfor lunch, with DAILY SPECIALS on Soups, Salads and Sandwiches and other delights. 
Kitchen open 11 a.m. -Midnight Monday-Saturday! Bar opens 7 a.m. on homefootball Saturdays! Two Big Screen 1Vs! 
200 Northwestern Avenue West Lafayette, Indiana (Close to campus in the middle ofthe village) 
743-4400 

0MPUS 
MINI>TRY 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
UN establishes Haitian fllission 
By VICTORIA GRAHAM 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

The Security Council set up a 1,26 7 -strong mission of police monitors, army engineers and trainers Thursday to promote human rights and bolster peace accords in Haiti. It deplored the political violence there. 
The 15-nation council voted unanimously to create the U.N. Mission in Haiti for six months, at an estimated cost of $50 mil­lion. 
General Assembly President 
S.R. lnsanally of Guyana told reporters meanwhile that he expected deposed President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to ad­dress the assembly in coming weeks. "It is in the cards," he said. 
The Haiti mission will be the 15th current U.N. operation. On Wednesday, the council estab­lished a 440-member military observer mission for liberia. 
A council resolution ex­pressed concern ''about the escalation of politically moti­vated violence in Haiti at this time of critical political transi-
Cuban flies 
MIG jet to 
·us\ airbase. 
f ~ \. ·, ~. ~. '. 
·
.. 

By SUSANNE M. SCHAFER ~ ·Asioci:wro Press 
tion" and cited the "urgent need" for the international community to assist. 
It called on all factions "explicitly and publicly to re­nounce and to direct their sup­porters to renounce violence as a means of political expres­sion." 
Hopes for a smooth return to democracy in Haiti have been set back by a rash of political killings blamed on reservists from the army. which is largely anti-Aristide. 
The U.N. mission will not be a traditional peacekeeping mis­sion to help restore law and order. and police and military personnel will not replace the Haitian army and police. 
Instead, about 570 police ob­servers would monitor Haitian police to help protect human rights. They also would help train a professional police force. Haitian police tradition­ally were merged with the army, and a major purpose of the mission is to upgrade and professionalize both forces. 
A 700-member military com­ponent would consist of an army corps of engineers who would reconstruct roads, bridges, hospitals and schools and build new housing. 
They also would help train army officers and construction engineers in the poor Caribbean island nation, which has been torn by violence, its infrastructure a mess. All train­ing would be non-combat. 
U.S. Ambassador Edward Walker told the council, said Haiti's "civic institutions ... must have legitimacy in the eyes of the Haitian people, they must be accountable to the Haitian people, they must oper­ate in behalf of the Haitian peo­ple." 
The council called for swift deployment, but set no date. France, Canada, Venezuela, other Latin American countries and possibly the United States are expected to contribute per­sonnel. 
The council asked the Haitian government to take all steps to ensure the safety of U.N. per­sonnel and their freedom of movement. 
activate TV monitors at rock· et.test sites, clearing the way for high-level talks in Baghdad next month and a major accord on weapons monitoring, Iraqi Ambassador Niza.r Hamdoon said. 
High•level talks with U.N. , weapons officials now are ex· pected to be held in October. ''Iraq has agreed to activate the cameras, as a sign of good 
Friday, September 24, 1993 
..The cameras will be turned on when the Special Commission wants. We expect the Special Commission to go to Baghdad." 
The cameras were installed this summer after a long standoff with Iraq, one of many over the terms of the Gulf War. But the cameras were not turned on pending talks. 


1 • ' ~ 
. .. ·.\=. WASHINGTON .. 

A Cubtui MiG-23 military jet landed Thursday afternoon at the u.s: military base in Guantanamo, Cuba, and the pi­lot asked for political asylum, 
U.S. officials said. 
The jet apparently was in the air with a number of other Cuban planes and "peeled off and headed to Guantanamo," said a Pentagon official, who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
The plane landed at the base 
2:35 p.m. -just hours after an older MiG-21 flown to Florida last week by another defecting pilot was returned to the Cuban government, said a State Department official. 
The Cuban air force has sev­eral squadrons of MiG-21s, MiG-23s, older versions of the fighter aircraft, as well as some of the newer MiG-29s, which the former Soviet Union built for export, according to the International Institute for Strategic Studies. 
Navy Cmdr. Morgan Smith, a spokesman for the U.S. Atlantic Fleet in Norfolk, Va., said the pilot of the single-seat aircrP:,., was being interviewed by o," cials at Guantanamo. 
Smith said no shots were ex­changed. The fighter plane had no bombs or missiles on board, but did have a 23 mm gun, he said. 
The Navy spokesman couldn't say if the plane was pursued by Cubans or escorted by U.S. aircraft, nor did he have the pilot's name or rank. 
The incident comes just days after a Cuban air force captain asked for political asylum after flying his unarmed MiG to the United States. 
On Sept. 17, a MiG-21 landed at the Key West Naval Air Station on Boca Chica Key. 
As the Cuban economy has declined, increasing numbers of Cubans have been fleeing to Guantanamo. 
$ign up noYl!"f,~! at.,the info desk 
the deadline has been .....··•··•·· extended for an additional week 
of~ittings until next friday, october 1 
r abso 


r last chan:t'e 
last chance ... 

.1W\1H~~iili:j: 

ave your sen1or portrait taken for the yearbook 
Friday, September 24, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS 
Conflicting views on health plan 

By KATIE MURPHY 
News Writer 
President Clinton's health care address VVednesday night appears to be a step forward in the efforts to reform the health care system, according to David Betson, Notre Dame associate professor of economics. 
• See Healthcare p. I 0 
However, Douglas Kmiec, a professor at the Notre Dame Law School, feels that there are several flaws in Clinton's health care propositions. 
"I question the proposal on a number of grounds," said Kmiec. 
According to Betson, although the public information about the forthcoming proposal to reform the nation's health care system is limited, Betson said the preliminary details are promising. 
"I have not seen the 245 page document, but what I heard was a very good start," Betson said. "Congress has to work with something. It can't work with a blank piece of paper." 
Clinton spoke for nearly an hour to a full House chamber. He proposed a vast restructur­ing of the health care system to keep costs down and offer se­cure coverage to all, and stressed six major areas of health care policy. 
A fair health care proposal should offer security, savings, simpler administrative formats, a choice of providers, high quality care, and the opportu­nity for Americans to person­ally take responsibility for their health care, according to Clin­ton. 
"VVhat we heard VVednesday night was more of a call to arms and a need to address these issues and how to judge a proposal," said Betson. 
One of Kmiec's main con­cerns is the way Clinton's ideas about health care reform con­tradict Catholic social teaching. 
Clinton is steering the re­sponsibility for health care to­wards high-level bureaucracy and away from individuals, families, and communities, ac­cording to Kmiec. 
The placement of decision­making capabilities on mem­bers of society rather than on the federal government is an important consideration in this government plan, Kmiec said. 
"One should never raise to a higher level that which can ef­fectively and appropriately be done in a lower level," he said. 
The economic aspects of the plan may be detrimental to some classes of employers, par-
A SUPPORT GROUP FOR 
~l!JJR.VRV0 JR.~ CO)JF JRAIPJE 
• 
Free of Charge • Completely Confidential 

• Held on Campus 
• Open to all ND/SMC female students 

• 
Sponsored by Sex Offense Services & C.A.R.E For info, please call234,0061 ext. 1308 


~·-=­

-~­
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
t\ORffiU CtnTtR 
fOR Tt1t <fl R T S 
ATREK 
CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATRE 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 AT 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S-NO COMMUNITY ADULTS $4, STUDENTS $3 A JOHN M. DUGGAN EVENT 
Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626. 
. 1!1--­
SaJ.nt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 


ticularly small businesses, he added. Under Clinton's plan, most employers would be required to pay 80 percent of average premiums. 
"Small businesses will have to undertake the forced or co­erced purchase of a govern­ment product. Unfortunately, small businesses are the major source of job growth at the moment," said Kmiec. 
Kmiec is concerned that small businesses will be overwhelmed by the new insurance require­ments and not be able to sus­tain their current employment numbers. 
"One of the ironies of the Clinton proposal is that people will be insured but unem­ployed," he said. 
A better alternative, accord­ing to Kmiec, is the establish­ment of "medical savings ac­counts that allow individuals to accumulate and use savings for day-to-day medical expenses tax free." 
"VVe are trying to create an entirely new set of organiza­tions that are really state-run monopolies. The alternative would just be another line on the tax form. All it would re­quire is a relatively simple piece of legislation, "he said. 
page? 
The Observer/Erika Quinn 

Getting his hands dirty 
Fifth year senior Patrick Birge diligently works to create a plaster mold sculpture yesterday. 
Israeli parliament approves pact 
BySERGEISHARGORODSKY 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin declared he won "freedom of action" to pursue Mideast peace after parliament ratified the historic Israel-PLO accord on Thursday. 
Rabin said the 61-50 vote al­lowed the government to im­plement the agreement on Palestinian self-rule in the oc­cupied lands and continue at­tempts to reach peace with Is­rael's Arab neighbors. 
The margin was less sub­stantial than Rabin had hoped for, but it put a convincing end 
IN THE LINE OF FIRE [!!] 
SLEEPLESS 
IN SEATTLE~ 
2:30,5:00, 7:15,9:30 
WARJ9CK: 
THE ARMAGEDDON 
2:45, 5:00, 7:15, 9:45 
JAMES CAAN 
THE 

~.-·PROGRAM 
2:15, 4:45, 7:30, 10:00 
to calls for early elections or a national referendum that would have slowed down the peace momentum. 
It also diminished fears that Israel would be torn by violence and political anarchy" after rec­ognizing the PLO, it~ bitter en­emy. 
"Now we shall build a new Middle East," Foreign Minister Shimon Peres said after the vote. 
Still, hard-line opponents to the accord said that the gov­ernment's mandate was slim, and they would try to force changes in the accord. 
PLO spokesman Yasser Abed-
INOJJIAYOJl.KIN 

THE~ECRET 
[gJ GARDEN 
2:00, 4:30, 6:45, 8:45 
An adventure you111 never forget. 
~~~~ WILLY ®J 
1:45,4:15,6:45, 9;00 
Rabbo praised the result, telling Israel army radio from Tunis it was a "positive step" and that support for the treaty was larger in the street than in parliament. 
Rabin had staked the credi­bility of the peace initiative as well as the future of his gov­ernment on winning the vote, saying it would constitute a for­mal vote of confidence. 
Eight legislators, including three from the hard-line Likud bloc, abstained from the vote, and one was absent in the 120­seat Knesset, or parliament. The result clearly embarrassed Likud, which failed to enforce party discipline. 
24-IIOUR OPPORTUNITIES AT STEAK 'N SHAKE! 
Steak 'n Shake has full and part time opportunities on all shifts for enthu­siastic, dependable individuals who want to join our winning team. We are seeking: 
GRILLJGRILL BREAKFAST FOOD PREP DRESSING TABLE OPERATOR 
Your attitude, availability and previ­ous experience are important in getting a spot on our team. We of­fer competitive wages, starting at up to $6 per hour, and opportunities for advancement. 
Please APPLY IN PERSON, before 11 AM and after 2PM at the loca­



.---~-.~~---..---~--~-----------------------------~--~-­

HELP INAUGURATE THE 
MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL WEEK 
AT THE 


SUNDA Y(SEPTEMBER 26), 2:00PM 
THER WILL BE: FEATURED SPEAKERS 
Sponsom{6y:
Spon.>oru{ 6y: 

Mufticufturaf'E>,Jcutivt CouncilMufticultura{•f.>i!cutivt Council 
MUSIC 



DANCE 
FOOD 

SEE YOU IN THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
FOR A 

South Mrica ends whites-only rule 
By JOHN DANISZEWSKI 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN 
Parliament voted Thursday to allow blacks a role in governing South Africa for the first time, and angry white right­wing lawmakers, crying "traitor," said it could lead to civil war. 
"This makes permanent peace impos­sible," said Ferdi Hartzenberg, leader of the white Conservative Party, who led his followers in walking out of Parliament after the vote. "We have lost a golden opportunity for peace." 
The vote creates a Transitional Executive Council, comprised of repre­sentatives from the 26 black and white parties that have participated in the talks on ending apartheid. 
The body, which one official said may function as early as next month, will be a watchdog of the government, with some veto powers. Most importantly, it can veto decisions on the increased use of the security forces to quell political unrest in black townships. 
It will help oversee foreign, economic and national security policy and the holding of the country's first multiracial election April 27, and is charged with combining the existing security forces with paramilitary and militia groups linked to the ANC and other black par­ties. 
The African National Congress, the country's largest black group, hailed the vote as "a major victory for the forces of peace and democracy." 
"For the first time in the history of our country, the racist Parliament has approved a bill which is responsible to the will and aspirations of the majority," the ANC said in a statement. 
By giving blacks a role in government, the bill set the stage for ANC leader Nelson Mandela to endorse the lifting of remaining international economic sanc­tions against South Africa. 
South Africa today and tomorrow 
Present government: President F.W. de Klerk and his National Party, which has ruled since t948, currently hold absolute power. 
Administrative Branch 
Pres. F.W. de Klerk 
(Heads Nat::;/·onal
Party) 
~"""'~ 
~ 


decisions by President F.W. de Klerk, requiring at least a two-thirds majority In most cases and up to an 80 percent majority on security issues. 
Legislative Branch Parliament 
(Controlled by National Party with no represenliltlon for the black majority) 


White Chamber Subcommittees Law & Order 
~~ 
Reglonai&Local ~ 
'-.. Government md ~ ForelgnAffalrs
Mixed-Race or \. Colo~5Chamber 

Defense ~ ~:;;:/ ~Status of Women 
Finance ~ According to the draft legislation that still requires approval by Parliament, the Transitional Executive Council will comprise one member and one alternate 

I 
from any of the 26 parties, many of which represent the black majority, that have ' taken part at any time in political negotiations that began in December 1991. The main function of the council is to 'level the playing field' in the run up to the election. It has the power to veto 
DeKlerk makes historic South Mrican visit to UN 
By VICTORIA GRAHAM 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
President F.W. de Klerk made the first visit by a South African head of state to U.N. Headquarters Thursday, a sign of his nation's return to world respectability after nearly 20 years of isolation. 
After conferring with Secre­tary-General Boutros Boutros­Ghali, de Klerk held a news conference at which he praised enactment of a bill by South Africa's Parliament giving blacks a role in government. 
He said he expects Nelson Mandela, who is to visit the world body on Friday, to call for lifting economic sanctions. 
He does not expect a major exodus of whites, although there has been an increase in emigration, de Klerk said. He added that immigration has in­creased at the same time and that establishment of democ­racy and economic develop­ment will change the mood and instill confidence. 
. Lunches starting at .....$4.25 Dinners starting· at .....$5.95 
Oriental Restal\rant.' in Michiana I;y '

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
'30 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
I
Miclliana Nolv 
(next to Randall's Inn)

----==:::::::::=:::-\ 
In a rare personal greeting, Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali met de Klerk at the U.N. entrance, smiling warmly as they shook hands. He escorted de Klerk upstairs for an hour of talks on South Africa and African problems. 
U.N. and South African flags flew side-by-side in the marble lobby of the Secretariat as the two men walked together into an elevator. 
De Klerk's visit to New York and then Washington is aimed at inviting foreign investment once sanctions are lifted, and reassuring investors their money will be protected. He ad­dresses investors Friday at about the same time Mandela of the African National Congress is expected to call for an end to economic sanctions in a U.N. speech. 
"This marks another turning point, another milestone in the process," de Klerk told re­porters when asked about pas­sage of a bill creating a multiracial Transitional Executive Council. 
-·--· 
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge J\ulhentic Szechuan, M.'l;-~darin & HWlan Cuisir.:: 
Voted.Be~b 

MULTICULTURAL CELEBRATION OF SPIRITUALITY! 
Friday, September 23, 1993 
ByCAROLYNSKORNECK 

WASHINGTON 

Crime bills calling for 50,000 more police officers on the street, new federal death penalty provisions and limits on appeals by death~ row inmates were introduced ln the House and Senate on Thursday. 
In large part, the bills, 
which have a price tag of$5.9 
billion over five years, resem­
ble the one worked out by a 
House-Senate conference 
committee in the previous 
Congress. That bill was killed 
in the face of a threatened 
filibuster by Senate 
Republicans over provisions 
involving the death-row 
inmates' appeals. 
But they delete a death 
penalty provision for drug 
kingpins and the Senate mea­
sure does not include the 
Brady hill that imposes a five­
day wait and background 

NOXTYPNE NifHT <I>AifHT 
Michiana's only,~ource for alternative rock everynight Midnight -2 a.m. 
~----~ ---~--~--------------­
page 9 

The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Amtrack probe focuses on barge 
Three people remained miss­ing, said Steve Huffman, a Mo­bile fire department spokesman. All were crew members believed to be inside an engine buried in 15 feet of bayou mud beneath 25 feet of water. Late Thursday afternoon the engine was lifted partially from the mud, and searchers were entering the cabin. 
The tugboat pilot, Andrew Stabler, has been questioned by the FBI and his vessel im­pounded. The barges were moored a quarter mile from the crash site 10 miles north of Mobile. 
Perkins said that Stabler ra­dioed in at 3:06 a.m. Wednes­day that he had struck a bridge, but mistakenly thought he had hit a span on the Mobile River. Instead, he was on Bayou Canot, one of several bayous, streams and creeks that feed into the river at its delta. The Coast Guard put the time of the crash at 3:18 a.m., though rail­road officials and federal inves­tigators have said it was shortly before 3 a.m. 
U.S. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena told "CBS Morning News" that Stabler radioed only that a barge had come loose. 

The train's speed wasn't known; the speed limit on the bridge was 70 mph. It had just left the Mobile station. 
Results of mandatory drug and alcohol tests given Stabler and three crewman were unavailable, the Coast Guard said. 
The barges -193 feet long and 35 feet wide -were lashed two aside and filled with coal, coke and wood chips. Some apparently broke loose upon impact, and Stabler was trying to corral them in the fog. 
"It is clear the barge did hit the bridge," Pena said. 
Stabler, who lives 60 miles north of Mobile in Martinville, refused to answer questions without consulting his lawyer. "I'd like to tell my side. People get things and turn them around," Stabler told The As­sociated Press. 
According to Coast Guard 
records, Stabler had no prior 
accidents or violations. He re­
ceived his seaman's license in 
1983 and a license to work on 
vessels over 100 gross tons in 
1987, the records show. He 
needed no state license. 
Warrior & Gulf Navigation 
Co., owner of the tugboat, said 
in a statement the vessel was 
pushing barges north in the 
fog-shrouded Mobile River. The 
bayou the train crashed into 
feeds into the river. The bayou 
isn't navigable, although barges 
sometimes tie up there tem­
porarily. 
"The vessel found itself not in 
the river channel but in the 
Bayou Canot," said Andrew 
Harris, general manager for 
terminals for Warrior & Gulf. 
"ONE OF THE BEST FllMS OF THE DECADE." 
\.I\1W'-(;T,\n\ \( \\\ \\ '\\!\ \\{)\\~\ 

"INTElliGENT" 
·l.11 ..,,,,1! lllll·l!HH \\1) \I \II lt lRD\ It 1 


".ll:'(r..-.,1\\1\\\11 l.\•' ·-..' L 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 

By ROBERT DVORCHAK 
Associated Press 
SARAlAND, Ala. 

An investigation into Am­trak's deadliest wreck focused Thursday on a tugboat operator who -12 minutes before the crash -radioed to authorities that he was having a problem with a runaway barge. 
The barge had struck a rail­road trestle over the foggy backwaters of a bayou just be­fore the train carrying more than 200 people plunged off it and exploded, killing at least 44, early Wednesday. 
"The fact is, he was lost," Coast Guard Capt. Michael Perkins said of the pilot of the tugboat MV Mauvilla. "While he was trying to gather up his barges, the train came along and the accident occurred." 
Giant cranes began hauling 
the Sunset Limited coaches 
from the water Thursday after­
noon, while divers resumed 
their search for bodies. The 
only one they found was of a 5­
year-old girl floating about 100 
feet from the submerged car of 
the Los Angeles-to-Miami train. 
CONCERT SPM 
NEWSHOUR -8PM 
VIENNN CHICAGO SALZBURG SYMPHONY 8 PM -10 PM 8 PM -10 PM 
CELTIC BLUES TRADITIONS REVIEW 10PM-12AM OPM-12 


BUSINESS 
page 10 Friday, September 24, 1993 
Local businesses skeptical about Clinton's health care proposal 
By THERESA ALEMAN Business Writer 
While people differ over whether President Clinton's health care plan will help or hurt them as it was presented, the reform plan will not pass as presented Wednesday night according to local small busi­ness owners and general med­ical practitioners. 
Small business owner Davis Huston of Kokomo's Huston Electric employs roughly 100 people. He said that his com­pany is currently operating un­der a health care policy in which "most of our employees belong to a union where they essentially already pay for their own health insurance out of their union premiums. " About ten workers do not belong to a union and in those cases, 100 percent of their medical insur­ance costs are already paid by the company, according to Huston. "The plan will lower our medical insurance costs if anything," said Huston. 

Anne Lavanture of Granger's Vytec Corporation employs 23 people. "Our current compre­hensive health care policy pays for 100 percent of insurance premium costs with a $250 de­ductible," said Lavanture. 
If passed as presented, Lavanture said, "our insurance premiums will more than dou­ble. We don't have the same li­abilities as Fortune 500 corpo­rations, yet our premiums will be higher because they will be based on the liabilities of Fortune 500 corporations." Small businesses will not be able to keep prices as low for consumers as large businesses because they will need to cover high premium costs, according to Lavanture. 
Jeff Burnell, president of South Bend's American Hubber Company calls Clinton's plan "a threat to small businesses." He said that the plan hurts the small business' ability to be competitive in the world mar­ket. "It's almost like a gov­ernment approach to social­ism," said Burnell. 
The plan would make it more expensive to hire a person and businesses would use other methods to get products made while being forced to eliminate labor hours in order to control costs, according to Burnell. 
While business owners are divided on projections of bene­fits and drawbacks of the pol­icy, they agree that, as Lavanture said, "The plan is a noble one, but there are a lot of loose ends causing anxiety." 
Area doctors expressed simi­lar concerns over the policy's effects on their practices. 
"Ideally, the plan encourages patients to seek preventative medical attention while meeting cost needs for medicine. But I think Congress will find the plan too expensive, and will ultimately cut the proposed raises for primary care doc­tors," said Dr. Stephen Anderson, a South Bend area general practitioner. 
Anderson said that Clinton's policy, "if it goes through the way it was proposed, will serve to reduce fraud within the health care community while substantially increasing bene­fits for doctors." Primary care doctors will be rewarded mone­tarily by Clinton's policy if it passes as proposed, according to Anderson. 
He projected these rewards because while the policy will not really affect Medicare pa­tients, non-medicare patients will move into "managed care" policies in which they must see general practitioners in order to obtain referrals to speeial­ists. 
The potential increase in reimbursements will encourage students to consider service professions, and it will en­courage medical students to consider professions as general practitioners rather than spe­cialists, according to Anderson. Dr. Roland Chamblee, also a South Bend area family practi­tioner, agreed that Clinton's policy rewards general practice doctors, but said, "I will have to work harder, seeing more patients to make up for seeing uninsured or underinsured patients." 
Both doctors cited fears and potential problems with allega­tions of fraud or medical mal­practice suits if something is not done to curb or at the very least, address wily lawsuits. Chamblee added, "While I can defend what I do, lawsuits or false allegations would be need­lessly time consuming and a general nuisance." 
State representative Tim Hoerner stated that, "While I have some concerns over financing details and their pro­jected impact on small busi­nesses, I believe we must start somewhere." 
Local business owners' and doctors' comments about the promise of national health care reflect a wish to have a plan which works coupled with a need to have a financially fea­sible policy. 
Pancho Lozano contributed to this article. 
laccoca: Perot on Wireless communication gets approval from the wrong side FCC to opens new airwaves for new business 
ByTOMRAUM  By DIANE DUSTON  
Associated Press  Associated Press  
WASHINGTON  WASHINGTON  
Hoss Perot "is on  the wrong side of the  Federal regulators opened the  
angels" in his campaign against a free trade pact  floodgates Thursday for a surge in  
with Mexico, retired Chrysler chairman Lee  wireless communications that the  
lacocca said Thursday in an opening salvo on  industry says could make cellular  
behalf of the Clinton administration.  phones so inexpensive that half the  
After meeting with President Clinton, lacocca  country will carry them by the year  
told reporters at the White House he would help  2000.  
Clinton in his effort to win passage of the North  In  a  2-1 decision, the Federal  
American Free Trade Agreement.  Communications Commission carved  
He said he expected to make several televi­ up 160 megahertz of airwaves for  
sion commercials plugging the agreement and to  companies to create a new, multi-bil­ 
give speeches.  lion industry based on a fresh line of  
The administration hopes that high-profile  wireless devices.  
appearances by lacocca can help counter Perot's  This includes highly sophisticated  
outspoken efforts against the pact, which would  pocket phones, palm-size computers  
remove  nearly all trade barriers among the  and laptops that receive video pic­ 
United States, Mexico and Canada over the next  tures.  
15 years.  "This will profoundly change the  
Iacocca said he didn't sign on to go toe-to-toe  way people communicate," said FCC  
with the Texas billionaire. But he made it clear  chairman James Quello.  
that Perot would be a favorite target.  It was the most heavily lobbied  
"I think he should get some facts put togeth­ ruling in the history of the FCC,  
er," the former auto industry executive said. Perot claims that the free trade agreement would result in the loss of more than 5 million jobs -many of them in the auto industry -as companies move plants to Mexico to hire low­wage labor. "That's completely wrong," Iacocca said. "I think this is a message we've got to get out. People have been playing on the fears of Americans," he said. "He's a good fellow, he's worth a couple bil­lion dollars. I like him. But he's on the wrong side of the angels here," Iacocca said of Perot. In Dallas. Perot spokeswoman Sharon Holman said Perot would stand by his statements on  involving virtually every company with an interest in communications, including cable TV, long-distance and regional telephone companies, cellu­lar phone services and computer companies. As a result of the ruling, ev­eryone may some day carry around a small, personal phone at all times with a number that's individually assigned, just like Social Security numbers. "By the end of the decade, half the people on the streets in Washington will be carrying a phone," said John  Hoth, president of wireless services for Northern Telecom. The new 160 megahertz of fre­quency is four times the size of the spectrum allocated for existing cellu­lar phones, which are now used by 11 million subscribers in an $8 bil­lion-a-year business. The new bandwidth will enable enough competition in each market to drive prices down and lead to new inventions and faster equipment im­provements. industry officials said. Licenses to use the space will be  AP/Jody Emery. Steve Sakson auctioned to private industry in an effort to raise more than $10 billion for the federal government. It is space the FCC is taking away from users like utilities, railroads and pipeline companies who communi­cate from fixed transmitters and could operate at a higher frequen­cies. The FCC will issue rules for auc­tioning the licenses in a few months after reviewing various proposals and taking comment from industry and others.  
NAFTA. Otherwise. she had no immediate reac­ 
tion to Iacocca's joining the White House cam­. paign for the trade agreement.  BUSINESS BRIEFS  ·  


lacocca is a familiar figure from the many TV spots he did for Chrysler. 
NEW YORK
NEW YORK 

WASHINGTON 
"Lee Iacocca is a folk hero to many Americans," said White House counselor David Gergen. "lie has enormous credibility as some­one who's a winner, created jobs, who is very firmly for American workers. And I think the more Americans hear him, when they know where he stands, it will make a difference." 
lacocca said he had been a longtime sup­porter of removing trade barriers with Mexico. Jle said Mexico's economy is booming, and the free-trade pact would mean more Mexicans would by more U.S. products, resulting in more 
U.S. jobs, not fewer. 

Nearly half of major U.S. com­panies cut staff between July 1992 and June 1993, slashing at the sharpest rate since the last recession, according to an American Management Association survey. The seventh annual survey of "corporate downsizing," released Thursday, also suggested that despite the slowly  Interest rates on 30-year, fixed­rate mortgages fell slightly this week. remaining below 7 percent for the fifth consecutive week. This week's average was 6.95 percent, down from 6.96 percent the previous week but above the 25-year low of 6.82 percent two weeks ago. The rate started 1993 at 8.07 percent and  The fight for Paramount Communications Inc. veered from Wall Street into federal court as Viacom Inc. sought an order block­ing QVC Network Inc.'s rival bid for the media-entertainment company. Viacom said Thursday that the QVC bid, which is backed by one of cable's most powerful figures. John Malone, represented another step in  
growing economy, work force reduc­ declined for most of the year. except  "Malone's conspiracy to monopo­ 
tions are likely to persist at a similar  briefly during  the  spring when  lize" the cable industry in violation  
pace over the coming year.  investors became temporarily ner­ of antitrust laws.  

vous about inflation. 
-----~----------------------------·-~-------_.-------~~~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 24, 1993 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 

News Editor ................ Meredith McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ..•..•.•................. Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. ] ake Peters Saint Mary's Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager Brian Kennedy 

Advertising Manager ................•.... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Production Manager ..................•..... Cheryl Moser Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does noc necessarily reflecc che policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· totials teptesent the opinion of the majotity of the Editot-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editot, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editot, Pho<o Editot, Sports Edi<or, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authorS, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's Managing Ediwr/Viewpoinc 631-4541 Day Editor/Production Business Office 631-5313 Advertising Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 
GARY CARUSO 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 


CAPITOL COMMENTS 

Irish gold tarnished by book 
But ND administration must fight allegations 
If I have learned one thing in my seventeen years in Wash­ington, it is to strongly refute accusations made in the na­tional press. Anyone remember how Mike Dukakis chose to ignore George Bush's con­tention that Dukakis was against the Pledge of Alle­giance? Voters certainly forgot Dukakis on election day. As the axiom goes, "No response must be an admission of guilt." 
During last year's presiden­tial primaries, Bill Clinton suc­cessfully countered charges that he had extramarital af­fairs. His vigorous efforts thwarted those who sought to discredit him as a major candi­date by trying to make that al­legation stick. When public opinion is formulated through the national press, timidity is always the loser. 
Notre Dame cannot afford to ignore the charges leveled by Don Yaeger and Douglas Looney in their book, "Under the Tarnished Dome: How Notre Dame Betrayed its Ideals for Football Glory." Coach Holtz's refusal to read the book or comment on its contents is appropriate. He should coach the team and let the University Administration be the lightning rod for press inquiries. 
When ABC's "Nightline" pro­gram dedicated a half hour to the book, Father Beauchamp's taped interview was adequate for a recorded clip. However, Fr. Beauchamp should have also appeared live on "Nightline's" September 7th airing. Doug Looney took full rein over the show ramming his perspective of the book before a 
DOONESBURY 
national audience. Ted Koppel played his nightly "neutral" role, but did not directly counter any of Looney's accusa­tions. 
Yaeger and Looney are building interest in their book to increase sales. Those who hate Notre Dame will buy the book as well as buy their accusations. Those who love Notre Dame may borrow a copy just to review the book's con­tents. Nonetheless, supporters will never believe the book's contents. 
Ignoring this matter most affects the Notre Dame reputa­tion with those who neither love nor hate the Irish. It affects young students who are not certain of what to think. It also affects Catholics like Ge­orgetown graduates who main­tain a loyal "Catholic" rivalry with Notre Dame alumni. They remember how vociferously they fought the claim that Patrick Ewing, a Proposition 48 recruit, could not read. 
If I were in Fr. Beauchamp's shoes, I would personally dis­credit Yaeger and Looney as much as possible. First, I would accept every invitation to appear on television or meet with a reporter. During those sessions I would counter every charge I could by citing those people who wrote to Notre Dame to say that they were misquoted in the book. 
Secondly, I would impeach those who made the charges. Are these sources typical stu­dent athletes who fully partici­pated in the football program and graduated? Or are they people who eventually trans­ferred or quit the squad? 
Did those who made accusa­tions have vendettas against the program or a coach? Were their feelings hurt by a tough coach who motivates his play­ers beyond their abilities? Was the "spit-in-the-face" incident merely spray caused by Holtz's speech impediment while he was face-to-face with a player? 
Next I would hound the au­thors by appearing wherever they made appearances to per­sonally deny their accusations and present the University's position. I would detail the kinds of articles and books they have written. Do they usually write negative pieces? I would cite the erroneous steroid arti­cle "Sports Illustrated" pub­lished a couple of years ago. If I could, I would develop a list detailing any other published errors to show a pattern of tabloid journalism against ND. 
Then I would research their backgrounds to determine the character of each individual. Do they have police records or cheat on their taxes? Do they harbor ill feelings for Notre Dame because of their alma matters? Did they cheat in school? 
Finally, I would go on the of­fensive to promote the Univer­sity by appearing on as many shows as I could solicit. Using such Notre Dame contacts as Regis Philbin and Phil Donahue, I would saturate the television air waves with positive images of the football program. After a couple of weeks of the media blitz, I would pronounce the issue closed. Then I would ignore these tabloid journalists 
.. 
.. 

altogether. 
Academic institutions are more insulated from the na­tional media than political insti­tutions. As a result, they react differently to "political" matters that may affect their reputa­tions. Most universities would initially react to a crisis by cir­cling the wagons when the na­tional media zeroed in on them. Some think that making a sim­ple denial and then ignoring the issue puts them on a high road...that more discussion would dignify or elevate the accusations. The folly with this strategy is that the accuser is never discredited or neutral­ized. 
Two weeks have passed since the "Nightline" program aired. While the issue may seem to have passed from the national spotlight, a stigma lingers like an undercurrent beneath calm waters. Just last week a Monsignor at my church made comments to me as though ND was guilty. I knew at that moment that Yaeger and Looney would dog the football program all season. Although gold really cannot tarnish, these authors painted a film over it. The next time such accusations are charged against Notre Dame, I suggest that the University go right for the accusers' jugulars. These matters are major in scope and cannot be ignored away like gays on campus or student gov­ernment whining. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73. works as a desktop pub­lishing specialist for the U.S. House of Representatives. His column appears every other Friday. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU'L-L-FIN[) Al-l­~ OPaJR. pe­MAN{}S ON THAT {)lSI< l  I ?e/3. SO HOW lJOI  JU5T IXJUBU·ala<. AH,.. ON THE ''PE3MAN[)5" H/3RE3 W£3 Fll/3. GO... "1. !Aft OtMANO  
/  GETIN? I  THAT YOU RESIGN..," I  

0/<AY, I 5EZ A PROBL.t.M Hf3RE3. IF I RESIGN, HOW CAN I ACT ON AU.. 7HtSI3 
OTHER OEMAN05'f 
I 

UM... OKAY, MOVE THAT HO/iJ? I ON£3 TO LAST... GOUP70 I THE3ME3NU 
BAR, RIGHT? 
I 

"'\VJhat they call dying is W merely the last 
.
pam. " 
llnlbrose Bierce Cynic 

---~ --~-~--~--~~-­


friday
events 
ATREK, contemporary Dance Theatre, 8 p.m., 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, tickets $3. Women's soccer vs.NC State, 5 p.m., Alumni Field. Men's Soccer vs. Indiana, 7:30p.m., Alumni Field. "Made In America," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 
p.m., $2 "The Lover," The Snite, 7 & 9:45p.m. "The BLues Brothers," Carroll Auditorium ~MC. 7 &9:30p.m., $2. 
IOUSiC 
The Samples, Stepan Center, 8 p.m., tickets $8. Mishawaka Midway Tavern, Blue Steel Rock Band, 10 
p.m. and Future Band, 11 p:m. Alternative rock and reggae. 
saturday 
events 
Notre Dame vs.Purdue, 2:30 p.m. kick-off. Purdue Bus Trip leaves at 10 a.m. from.th.~--G..C.E., . tickets $15. · · Watch the Purdue game in the South Dining Hall, 2:30 p.m., free food provided. "Made In America," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 
p.m.,$2. "The Lover, • The Snite, 7 & 9:45 p.m. "The Blues Brothers," Carroll Auditorium, 7 & 
9:30pm, &2 

music 
Beaux Arts Ball, costume gala, Architecture Building, 
9 to 2 a.m., $5, featuring XYZ Affair. The Groove, Club 23, 9:30 p.m. Mishawaka Midway Tavern, Blue Steel Rock Band at 
10 p.m. and Future Band at 11 p.m., alternative rock and reggae. 
sunday 
events 
Misa en Espanol.Pasquerilla East Chapel. 11:30 p.m .. celebrant Padre Richard Wilkinson. Vermeer Quartet, Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art, 2 p.m., $2 for students. 
Spiritual Celebration. Multicultural Fall Festival Week, 2 p.m.. LaFortune Ballroom. Featuring food, music, and dance. 
movies 
University Park East 
Undereover Blues 7:20, 9:20 Truo Romance 7, 9:35 The Firm 8 Striking Distance 7:25, 9:30 
University Park West 
Into the West 9 Real McCoy 7, 9:20 Manhattan Murder Mystery 7, 9:20 
Restaurants satisfy hunger pains Purdue style 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Besides the game, there are lots of other things the greater Lafayette area has to offer. In order to calm those hunger pains, there are several differ­ent types of restaurants. 
Caruso's Uttle Italy, located at 1403 Sagamore Pkwy., special­izes in zesty Italian dishes. Their prices range from sand­wiches at $3.95 to entrees as much as $11.95. The average meal, however, costs around $8.95. The dress is casual, and the number is (317) 448-6963. 
Hour Time, located at 4343 State Rd 26 East, serves steak, seafood and pasta. The prices range from $8.95 and up, with the average entree around $13.95. The attire is mostly dress up, and the number is (317) 448-4669. 
If you have a taste for ribs there are two places that should satisfy your hunger. Damon's, located at 4221 State Rd. 26 East, serves ribs that range from $6.95 to $15.95. The can be reached at (317) 449-4158, and the dress is ca­sual. Mountain Jack's, located at 4211 E. State Route 26, serves their ribs (along with other items) at an average price 
.. 

of $14.95. The atmosphere ranges from casual to dress, at the number is (317) 448-1521. 
Sorrento's, located at 601 Sagamore Pkwy., boasts a menu of 129 dinner items. The average price is $15.00, but they do range from $6.00­$17.95. The dress ranges from jeans to evening gowns, and the number is (317) 463-5537. 
The Pub, located at 407 Union, serves "everything" on their menu at a "reasonable" price, and the number is (317) 423­2576. 
Safari Bar and Grill, located at 401 Sagamore Parkway West, serves various types of grill items, and the number is (317) 497-3600. 
For a change from an ordinary night at Bridget's, Commons, or CJ's try visiting Macaw's Bar and Grill, located at 2025. River Rd. Quincey's Spirits & Friends, located in Chauncey Hill Mall on State and Chauncey streets, is another popular place. 
Some of the other bars include Jeremiah Sweeney's and Chi Chi's, both located on State Road 26 East. Checkerboard, on 1521 Kossuth, and C.W. Dandy's, on 400 Sagamore Parkway South are also two bar "hot spots." 
If fast food is what you are searching for, you will be able to find it in Lafayette. It has a Bob Evans (Interstate 65 and State Rd. 26 East), a Denny's (4260 State Road 26 East). a Steak' n Shake (2 Sagamore Parkway North), and a Waffie House (Interstate 65 and State Road 26 East). All are open 24 hours a day. 
Whatever you are looking for, you should be able to find it close to the campus of Purdue. A full stomach and a good nights rest will definitely help· one to keep cheering and sup­porting the Irish as they some head to head with the Boiler­makers on the opposing team's turf. 
By 
Jonathan Jensen 
I 
don't play for the fans, I don't play to be on television every weekend," says Lake Dawson, as his characteristic smile turns to a look of concern, "What's important to me is that all my teammates, when they see the ball thrown to me, they're thinking, 'Lake's gonna catch that."' 
That thought is central to what Dawson is all about. The senior split end has long been counted on by Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz and, more importantly, his teammates. 
"They have a lot of confidence in me. That 
£I!; means a lot to me, that shows when you have ~ gained some respect from your teammates," 
(: 

~ ------------------------------------­
.0 

0 See LAKE/page 6 




on a scale of 1 to 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
I!J 
Pike isn't the equal of his all-star predecessors, but he runs the option well. 
RUNNING BACKS 
~ 
Alstott is one of the Big Ten's best fullbacks but Conners is an average tailback at best. 
RECEIVERS 
w 
Jeff Hill has five catches including two touch­downs already but he is Purdue's only weapon. 
0-LINE 
w 
Talented and experi­enced line will make it a battle for Irish D-Line. 
D-LINE 
1!.1 
Very small compared to Irish 0-Line. This mis­match could make the difference. 
LINEBACKERS 
l!J 
Sophomores Conley and Hall have played well but still need to br.tin experience. 
SECONDARY 
L!J 
Young and Johnson have been impressive, but not enough to stop Irish receivers. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
I!J 
Ross and Conners are decent returners but Bobik hasn't made a field goal 
COACHING 
w 
Coletto doesn't have much to boast about, and he's never given the Irish much of a game. 
FINAL SCORE 
~ 
Mediocre all-around and Notre Dame has simply dominated the Boilers under Holtz.. 

Not ntuch worry with Purdue offense 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
Purdue runs an option offense, but it may not have enough options to outrun the Notre Dame defense. 
T h e I r is h allowed just 251 yards in 
t o t a I 
offense I a s t week against Michigan State, including only 58 rushing yards against a Spartan attack that in­cluded All-Big Ten tailback Craig Thomas. 


But Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz doesn't expect his defense to carry the Irish through any games. 
"We are not a dominant defensive team and I don't see us being a dominant defensive team in the future," Holtz said. 
The Irish don't have to be dominant against the Boilermakers, just steady. 
Purdue doesn't have a serious big-play threat, but the offense-particularly the running game-has improved dramatically early in the season. 
After losing their season opener to North Carolina State, the Boilermakers rebounded against Western Michigan, gaining 268 yards on the ground on the way to a 28-13 win. 
Running backs Arlee 
Notre Dame offense far better on paper 
By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
It's test of character more than skill. Notre Dame's blossoming but inex­perienced offense is clearly more tal­
ented than Purdue's defense. But the pressure on the Irish is building each week and the young offense must guard against playing its 

age. 

"I hope and I think our team will be prepared for a big game," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said, "because that's what it will be on the road." 
Freshman tailback Randy Kinder ignitei:i the Irish running game last week with 94 yards, adding another weapon to the growing Irish back­field. 
"Usually a heralded back doesn't take coaching well and isn't very tough," Holtz said. "I've been sur­prised at how well (Kinder) takes coaching and how tough he is." 
Kinder combines with classmates Robert Farmer and Marc Edwards, junior Willie Clark and starters Lee Becton and Ray Zellars to give the Irish a potent and diverse ground at­tack. 
Notre Dame's offensive line should help lead that attack. 
Senior tackles Aaron Taylor and Todd Norman have lived up to their preseason billing, and Mark Zataveski and Ryan Leahy are solidi­
fi' ... ··ww&W'''tif')·{·&~~ht:.J~·. , 
Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information Sophomore fullback Mike Alstott was a Big Ten Freshman of the Year candidate a year ago. 
Conners and Mike Alstott anchor the Purdue back­field behind quarterback Matt Pike. 
Alstott was among the contenders for Big Ten Freshman of the Year hon­ors in 1992, finishing his rookie season as Purdue's No. 4 rusher and No. 3 re­ceiver. He practiced in the spring with an eight inch plate and eight screws in his leg and a broken hand. 
Conners has rushed for more than 1200 yards in 
fying their spots at guard. Veteran center Tim Ruddy anchors the Irish line. 
"The Michigan State game was the best performance so far by our offen­sive line," Holtz said. "Our guards were much improved and Tim Ruddy is probably as good a center as we've ever had at Notre Dame." 
The loss of nose guard Jeff Zgonina left a big hole in the middle of Purdue's defensive line. Sophomore Jayme Washel has filled in capably early in the season, along with junior tackles Eric Gray and Jarrod Walker. 
Purdue's lack of size on the line could hinder them against the Irish. At 274 pounds, Walker is Purdue's biggest defensive lineman, while Notre Dame's offensive line averages more than 290 pounds. 
That mismatch should lead to a big day on the ground for the Irish and open up a passing game that Holtz has used liberally at times and reluc­tantly at others. 
Throwing to a experienced and tal­ented receiving corps, senior quar­terback Kevin McDougal has com­pleted 35 of 52 passes this season for 528 yards and two touchdowns. 
Split end Lake Dawson missed the second half of the Michigan State game with a concussion, but he is expected to start Saturday. Also ail­ing is flanker Mike Miller with an in­jured ankle, but it isn't expected to keep him out of the lineup. 
If the Irish receivers are not at full strength, it could be a good day for Purdue defensive backs Jimmy Young and Pat Johnson. Young has 13 tackles and an interception this his career, finishing eighth in the Big Ten with 676 yards last season. 
Their skill at running the option concerns Holtz. 
"(Purdue) runs the· option very well," Holtz said. "We better play very disciplined football and we have to be able to tackle well." 
A veteran offensive line will open some holes for the running backs. Junior Alfie Hill and senior Ryan Grigson anchor the line 
Senior safety Pat Johnson tackles Northwestern's Dennis Lundy. 
season, and Johnson has picked off two passes. 
Holtz unveiled a new receiving option last week, throwing to the tight ends for the first time this sea­son. 
Sophomore Pete Chryplewicz caught three passes for 34 yards and Holtz said he expects him to see more action Saturday. 
On paper, it is a game that Notre Dame should dominate on the offen­sively. 
As usual, Holtz doesn't believe what's on paper. 
"Purdue always plays Notre Dame very well," Holtz said. "This is the type of game that you never know what's going to happen." 
from the tackle position. 
Led by All-American Bryant Young, Notre Dame's powerful defensive line should be able to neu­tralize the Boilermakers. They must if they hope to stop Purdue's potentially explosive ground game. 
The Boilermakers aren't quite as dangerous through the air. Pike is trying to revive Purdue's image as Quarterback U. in the tradition of Bob Griese, Mike Phipps, Mark Herrmann and Jim Everett. 
So far, he hasn't quite lived up to the legacy of his predecessors. 
Pike has completed just 16 of 40 passes for 309 yards and two touchdowns this season. Flanker Jeff Hill is Purdue's main receiving threat, catching both of Pike's touchdown strikes. 
Notre Dame's secondary should have no problem neutralizing llill. Sophomore cornerback Bobby Taylor has been one of the best in the nation and captain Jeff Burris has been the glue that keeps the secondary together. 
"Bobby Taylor just has a natural instinct when the ball is in the air, He doesn't look quick but he always seems to be in the right position." Holtz said. "Jeff Burris at safety just holds everything together. He's not only a. fine ath­lete, he's also an excellent competitor." 

Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
on a scale of I to 5 
QUARTERBACKS 
w 
McDougal is becoming the leader he needs to be. 
RUNNING BACKS 
l,-AJ
L!J 
Kinder, Clark and Becton are blossoming into a great backfield. 
RECEIVERS 
~ 
Deep, experienced and sure-handed. Holtz coudln't ask for more from his receivers. 

Zataveski and Leahy are growing into guard role. Taylor, Ruddy and Norman still steady. 
D-LINE 
t2J 
A fearsome front four, but still need to improve pass rush. 
LINEBACKERS 
lo I 
~ 
Continuing to play well in Peterson's absence. Wynn a winner at OLB. 
SECONDARY 
r~a ~ 
Taylor, Burris and Co. are among the best in the business. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
l!J 
Need to recover from a weak overall perfor­mance last week. 
COACHING 
~ 
This is a tough week to motivate a team, but Holtz will get the job done. 
FINAL SCORE 
mJ 
Notre Dame is superior on paper and they should prove it on the field on Saturday. 
page 3!,,iday,Septomb" 24, 1993 


Young pursues his childhood fantasies 
By DARREN KIKUTA Purdue Exponent Staff Writer 
Eight-year-old Jimmy Young told his mother he was going to be a pro player one day. She smiled and brushed it off as a childhood fantasy. 
When he came home from school asking her to sign him up for football, she agreed. She wanted to give her children the things that would make them happy. 
And when Judy Young-Lee's son was selected as a presea­son All-American, she was as surprised as anyone. 
"I never thought in my wildest dreams, he would be getting press like ,.__,._..,.,......,.._.... that," Young-Lee said. "I can't F·..IU:~~~::.A.; 
believe he is this close." 
Young, a senior cornerback for the Boilermakers, is close to making good on that promise he made 14 years ago. He is considered the best cornerback in the Big Ten and among the top 10 in the nation and will surely have the attention of pro scouts all sea­son long. There remains only one season and 11 obstacles in his path to the National Football League. 
"I think he's got a chance to play in the NFL," Purdue de­fensive back coach Pat Render-The NFL has kept Young ded­
His running back aspirations
icated since his first run in the 
vanished during his sophomore
Pop Warner league. 
year. He intercepted six passes
"I set a goal a while ago that I 
during his first year at corner­
wanted to become a profes­
back, one shy of the single sea­
sional athlete," Young said. "As 
son Purdue record. He solidi­
my life progressed, I decided it 
fied his reputation as a de­
was going to be in football. I 
fensive player last year. 
was going to become a profes­
"I think the IU game when I
sional football player. That's 
thing of JY (Young)," senior
what brings me out to practice every day, that's what makes me work hard every day." 
However, Young had his doubts his freshman year. He told his mother during one of their semi-weekly phone con­versations he wanted to trans­fer from Purdue. 
"I told him, 'James, you picked Purdue after looking at all the other schools,'" Young­Lee said. '"Don't give up yet. Hang in there and see what the end will bring.'" 
Following that conversation, Young made the most signifi­cant decision of his athletic life. He switched to defense. 
He was recruited to play of­fense and wanted to be a run­ning back. He perceived it as a glory position, the guy people talk about all the time. But the arrival of coach Jim Colletto 
son said. "Like 

and his pro-style offense caused any great player, him to reconsider.
there's a chance. 

"We had so many tailbacksHe needs a good that I felt my best chance to
senior year, just play would be on defense,"

like 99 percent of Young said. "There were fourall college football 

spots open, and with a newplayers, but I staff coming in everybody'sexpect he will equal. Before they said any­
have that." 

thing to me, I was over there." 
wide receiver and roommate Jermaine Ross said. 
Early in the Indiana-Purdue game in 1992, Young had two chances for interceptions. Both were recorded as incompletions instead. 
''I'm gonna get them when it's going to hurt," Young said. 
Although Purdue dominated, the Boilers never established control of the battle. With Pur­due clinging to a 13-10 lead, Indiana began it last offensive series. 
"They were marching down the field on us. It seemed like they kept coming and coming," Young said. 
Purdue forced IU into a field goal attempt. The kick was blocked, the victory was se­cured and the celebrations started. Then the referees re­trieved the yellow flag and an­nounced the penalty. 
Sixteen seconds left in the game. The overthrown pass in­tended for the tight end fell into the waiting hands of Young. 
"When I saw it coming, I said, 'This is it.' And once I caught it I said, 'I'm not downing it,' and I took ofT," Young said. "I knew they were done out a fork in them." 
After the game, he was the guy people were talking about. 
"That's the kind of guy he is. He makes those kinds of plays," Henderson said. "He's got the kind of personality that allows him to compete one-on-one and feel like he's going to win.". 
Others To Watch 

MIKE ALSTOTT Hard-nosed fullback was Purdue's fourth-leading rusher as a freshman. 

JEFF HILL Purdue's No. 2 rusher a year ago, has since moved to wide reciever. 

AARON HALL Sophomore inside linebacker leads Purdue with 20 tackles thus far this season. 
' 


beat purdue 
~ 
Papa predicts: Notre Dame 42 · Purdue 6 
~;e-Nights;cia~r -1,i4':t;~; -lr-Pa;yP;ck-lr114';-L-;;g;l~.,.,..,..­1 1 194P·~; -Lclose II 1 To$p6p;~g Ptzza II 4--14" Large IllTopping Pizza 
... arge 1 'T
+Tax •
I • p· II or 2 , 14" Large II 1 opptng 11 with 2 cans of Coke •tA~tx;;;;;t; ..;;;;;..;;:;;...=-.;;;;;o._;;;;;;...;;..;;:;,..
1T 
I !Opptng tzza II 1 Topping Pizzas II Pizzas II and Breadstix 
$595

I •:;;;... II $1P5 .T~ II $2295 n~ II $1000 •Tu I 
IAdditional Topp1ngs .95¢ each .J.IIbAdditional Toppings 95¢ each Mts.J.I~~dditional Toppings .95¢ each ~. IIAdditional Toppings 95¢ each .._, v.t.~ 11/;,h Anv O.h..C"nuoon ot Vahd Wtth Any Other Coupon ot Valid With Any Other Coupon .J ~.Jot Valid With
• 
a.~~----~_.-___ -------._ __ 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 
-

The Most Popular Number on Campus! 

--~--------­
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 


BOILERMAKERS 

1 Courtland Byrd 2 Matt Kingsbury 2 C.J. Torres 3 Brian Thurman 4 BurtThomton 5 Arlee Conners 7 Rob Deignan 8 Romond Batten 
, 9 Kevin Nolan iW Russ Kiser 11 Matt Pike '12 Billy Dickan 13 Rick Tretzger 14 Jerome Adams ,15 Vito Speciale 16 Terry Samuel 17 Tedman Brown l6 EkiBn Goelll 19 Joe Hagins 
Kevin Sellers Kevin McGrew Jimmy Young Ken Matthews 
4 Kirk Olivadotti Jorge Aores Chad Bucklam! 
7 Oerriok Wallace Brian Lohman 29 Pal Johnson Reggie Johnson 
270 Fr. 272 So. 268 Fr. 215 So. 245 Fr. 243 Jr. 227 So. 258 Jr. 289 So. 257 Fr. 229 So. 260 Fr. 340 Fr. 276 Sr. 234 So. 
1 GeorgaBrandon DB 2 Ryan Phipps DB Houston Malden FB 
lsiah Dozier lkee Oozier Galen Morrow 
38 Joe DiBella 39 Aaron Hall 
MikB A!stott 41 Ryan Wilson 43 WI> Smikle 
Corey Rogers 
Jim Maciag 46 Dirk Handlin 47 Mike Anderson 
Chris Koeppen Jarrod Walker Scott Dobbins Jayne Washel 
DB 5-11 ILB 6-0 WR 5-11 DB 5-11 WR 6-3 TB 6-0 P 6-3 OLB 6-0 DB 5·9 QB 6-5 QB 6-3 QB 6·2 QB 6-l FBS 6-1 
K WR WR QB FB FB DB DB TB WR WR DB DB DB 
DB 
DB 
DB DB TB FB JLB FB 
PURDUE BOILERMAKERS 1993 ROSTER 

188 So. 52 J. Hoogendom 227 Sr. 53 Jon Krick 171 Jr. 54 Mark Rscher 190 Sr. 55 Bart Conley 183 Sr. 56 Darnell Howard 210 Sr. 57 Mike Szany 202 So. 58 Craig Williams 230 Sr. 59 Ben Metzger 154 Jr. 60 Ernie Pritchett 209 So. 61 Chris Hill 197 Jr. 62 Dina Kaklis 195 Fr. 63 Dan Maly 195 So. 64 Darnon Lewis 223 Fr. 65 Bill Clince 
5-10 174 Jr. 66 Bob O'Conn01· 5·10 174 Sr. 67 Steve Powell 6-4 219 Sr. 68 Alfie Hill 6·1 193 Jr. 69 Chris Sedoris 6-0 200 Fr. 70 Derrell Coleman 5·8 216 So. 71 Mike Cardona 5-10 186 Jr. 72 Emmett Zitelli 5·11 180 Sr. 73 Paul Miller 6·0 180 Fr. 74 Elvin Caldwell 5·9 173 So. 75 Eric Gray 5·7 183 Jr. 76 Joe Munoz 5·10 196 Jr. 77 Jim Even 5-11 183 Fr. 78 Brian Nicley 6-2 202 Jr. 79 Ryan Grigson 6-1 201 Sr. 80 Brian Alford 6-0 185 Fr. 81 Brandon Jewell 5·10 174 So. 82 BiiiWieklinski 5-9 185 Jr. 83 Randy Sanders 6-0 225 Sr. 84 John Boyd 6·2 195 Fr. 84 Jon Blackman 6·2 215 Sr. 85 Scott Carlberg 5·10 211 Sr. 87 Scott Green 6-0 220 So. 88 Tony Simmons 6-0 225 So. 89 Jermaine Ross 6-0 236 ·So. 90 Nate Krueger 
OLB 6·0 250 Sr. 91 John Grundy TB 5-11 190 Sr. 92 Brad Babich 
DL 6-7 DL 6-1 OL 6-4 ILB 6-3 DL 6-3 OT 6-3 OLB 6-3 DL 6-4 DL 6-1 OT 6-6 LB 6-0 OL 6-7 OL 6-3 C 6·4 OLB 5·11 OT 6-4 OT 6-3 OG 6-3 OT 6-3 OT 6·3 C 6-2 DL 6-4 OG 6-4 DL 6-4 DL 6-2 OG 6-4 C 6-6 OT 6-5 WR 6-1 OLB 6·3 TE 6-6 WR 5-11 WR 5-B TE 6-7 TE 6-5 TE 6·3 TE 6·2 WR 6-0 DL 6-3 DL 6·1 
K 6-1 

TB 5-11 205 Jr. 93 Charlie Stephens TE 6·4 
ll.B 6·0 231 Ji. 94 Jarnes Cole OLB 6-2 ILB 6-0 237 So 95 Jay W11tig TE 6-4 OLB 6·0 224 Jr. 96 Mark Secrest DL 6-4 ILB 5·10 230 ·Sp. 97 Greg Smith DTB 6-3 DL 6·5 274 Jr. 98 Mrke Ulinski P 6-0 OLB 6·2 195 Fr. 98 Leo Perez NG 6-3 Dl 6-1 254 So. 99 Mike Burchfield OLB 6·-1 
0 


Third year at Purdue. 

Career Records: Overall 25-52-1; at Purdue, 9-15; vs. Notre Dame, 0-2. 
Previous Coaching Experience: head coach at Cal State Fullerton (5 years); Offensive Coordinator at Arizona State (3 years); Offensive Coordinator at Ohio State (3 years); Offensive Coordinator at Purdue (3 years). 
Highlights: Upset #17 California, 41-14 in 1992; also in that year, the Boilers beat Iowa in Iowa City and state rival Indiana. 
-----1993 Statistics 
RUSHING  
YDSIGM  NO  YDS  AVG  TO  LG  
Alston  77.5  25  155  6.2  0  37  
Conners  56.5  21  113  5.4  2  40  
Rogers  51.5  13  103  5.7  1  19  
Hill  17.5  1  35  35.0  0  35  
PASSING  
RATING  COMP  ATT  PCT  YDS  TO  INT  LG  

ALL-PURPOSE  
RUSH  REC  RET  TOT  AVG  
Ross  0  103  161  264  132.0  
Alston  155  16  0  173  66.5  
Hill  147  0  0  147  73.5  
Rogers  103  12  0  115  57.5  
Conners  113  0  0  113  56.5  
Hagins  0  0  23  23  11.5  
Simmons  0  15  0  15  7.5  
Thornton  0  14  0  14  7.0  
Trefzger  ·7  0  0  -7  ·3.5  
Pike  ·10  0  0  ·10  ·5.0  

258 298 279 291 290 273 260 156 263 267 268 270 304 175 240 235 169 165 240 220 240 249 188 270 250 220 243 239 236 259 260 186 275 238 

Jr. Jr. Jr. Jr. Jr. So. So. Sr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Fr. Sr. Fr. Fr. Jr. Sr. So. Fr. So. Jr. Jr. Sr. So. Jr. So. Jr. Sr. Sr. Jr. Fr Sr Fr. So. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan Pike 111.4 16 
RECEIVING 
NO 
Hill  5  
Ross  5  
Thornton  2  
Rogers  2  
Alston  1  
Simmons  1  

FIELD GOALS 
Bobich 
PUNTING 
NO AVG Deignan 12 41.3 

40  40.0  309  2  2  66  
YDS 147 103 14 12 16 15  AVG 29.4 20.6 7.0 6.0 16.0 15.0  TO 2 0 0 0 0 0  LG 66 36 9 6 16 15  

1993 PURDUE 
TOT LG 0-2 

SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
Sept. 4 Sept. 11 Sept. 25
LG 
53 
Oct. 2 Oct. 9 
Oct. 16
INTERCEPTIONS 
Oct. 23
NO YDS TO LG 
P. Johnson 2 0 0 0 
Oct. 
Washel 1 0 1 Young 0 0 0 
Nov. Nov. 13 Nov. 20 

DEFENSE  
T  A  TOT  PBU  
Hall  14  6  20  0  
Conley  11  7  16  0  
Jackson  11  3  14  1  
Young  12  1  13  2  
Batten  7  3  10  0  
Kingsbury  6  1  6  0  
Thurman  6  3  9  0  
Byrd  6  2  6  2  
Walker  5  2  7  0  
Dozier  5  2  7  1  
Washel  5  1  6  1  
Williams  4  1  5  0  
Nolan  4  1  5  0  
Krick  3  1  4  0  
Cole  2  2  4  0  
Johnson  1  3  4  0  
O'Connor  3  0  3  0  
Hagins  3  0  3  0  
Gray  1  2  3  0  
Lohman  2  0  2  0  
Metzger  2  0  2  0  
Kaklis  1  0  1  0  
Hitl  1  0  1  0  
Anderson  0  1  0  0  

SCORING SUMMARY  
1  2  3  4  
Opponents  3  10  13  7  
Purdue  21  7  7  0  

Carolina State 7-20 MICHIGAN 36-14 2:30 1:00 6:00 1:00 1:00 1:05 1:00 MICHIGAN STATE 1:00 at Indiana 1:00 
SCORING  
-PAT­ 
TO  2pt  tpt  FG  
Hill  2  0  0  0  
Conners  2  0  0  0  
Rogers  1  0  0  0  
Babich  0  0  5  0  

T 33 
35 
PTS 12 12 6 5 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
NO  AVG  TO  LG  
Ross  4  23.2  0  33  
Hagins  23.0  0  23  
PUNT RETURNS  
NO  AVG  TO  LG  
Ross  6  11.3  0  13  

SAC 2 
0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 

TEAM STATISTICS  
PU  OPP  
First Downs  31  47  
by rushing  16  19  
by passing  13  23  
by penalty  0  5  
Total yardage  698  740  
Offensive plays  113  156  
Avg. yards per play  6.2  4.7  
Total yards I game  349.0  370.0  
Rushing yards  369  264  
Rushing plays  73  76  
Rushing yards I game  194.5  132.0  
Passing yards  309  476  
Passes completed  16  46  
Passes attempted  40  76  
Passes Intercepted  2  4  
Passing yards I game  154.5  236.0  
Fumbles -fumbles lost  5·1  6 ·1  
PenaHies • penalty yards  15 ·163  6-30  
3rd down conversions  6-23  13·29  
percentage  34.6  44.6  
4th down conversions  0·0  3-4  
percentage  75.0  

ROSS-ADE STADIUM 
Built in 1924 Capacity: 67,861 Largest Crowd: 71,629 (1980) Surface: Grass (PAT) NO's Record There: 15-8 
Now in its 70th season of use as Purdue's football playing field, it carries the distinction of being the only stadium in the Big Ten always to have featured "real grass." 

___,_ .......,l 
--------~-.-.~-~?~.~~---~--------------------------~~------~~·--------------------~ 
Friday, September 24, 1993 
The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 
FIGHTING IRISH 
LouH 
Seventh year at Notre Dame. 

Records at Notre Dame: Overall69-18-1; at Home 35-7­1; on the Road 34-11-0; in Bowl Games 4-2-0. Career Records: Overall185-83-6; in Bowl Games 9-6-2; vs. Purdue 8-1-0. 
Previous Head Coaching Experience: William & Mary (3 seasons), North Carolina (4 seasons), Arkansas (7 sea­sons), Minnesota (2 seasons). 
Career Highlights: No.3 ranking with 1977 Arkansas team; Led Notre Dame to 1988 National Championship; Upset No. 3 ranked Florida in 1992 Sugar Bowl. Topped No. 3 Michigan this year. 
1993 Statistics  
RUSHING  ALL-PURPOSE  
YOSIGM  NO  YOS  AVG  TO  LG  RUSH  REC  RET  TOT  AVG  
70.0  43  210  4.9  0  40  Miller  0  145  142  287  95.7  
40.3  19  121  6.4  0  33  Becton  210  45  0  255  85.0  
38.0  32  115  3.6  1  11  Zellars  114  23  0  137  45.7  
20.0  17  60  3.5  2  43  Kinder  121  0  0  121  40.3  
12.3  7  37  5.3  0  8  Mayes  0  100  0  100  33.3  
10.0 .  5  20  4.0  7  C. Johnson  0  90  0  90  30.0  
PASSING  Dawson McDougal  8 60  82 0  0 0  90 60  30.0 20.0  
Clark  37  8  0  45  15.0  
RATING  COMP  ATT  PCT  YOS  TO  INT  LG  Chryplewich  0  34  0  34  11.3  
165.3  35  52  67.3  528  2  0  50  Farmer  20  0  0  20  10.0  
147.0  5  5  100  28  0  0  11  Davis  8  0  6  14  4.7  
RECEIVING  Stafford Edwards  0 11  12 0  0 0  12 11  6.0 3.7  
NO  YDS  AVG  TO  LG  SCORING SUMMARY  
8  145  18.1  0  50  
6  23  3.8  1  16  1  2  3  4  T  
5  100  20.0  0  42  Notre Dame  17  30  26  17  90  
5  82  16.4  0  32  Opponents  10  13  6  20  49  
5  45  9.0  1  12  
4  90  22.5  0  43  

SCORINGFIELD GOALS 
-PAT­17-39 40-49 50+ LG 
1993 NOTRE DAME 

TO 2pt 1pt FG PTS Pendergast 7-8 o-o o-o 31 
Pendergast 0 0 9 7 30 McDougal 2 0 0 0 12 Zellars 2 0 0 0 12 Becton 1 0 0 0 6 Edwards 1 0 0 0 6 
SCHEDULE AND RESULTS 
PUNTING 
Farmer 1 0 0 0 6 NO AVG LG 
Burris 1 0 0 0 6 10 41.5 55 1 33.0 33 
KICKOFF RETURNS 
NO AVG TO LG

INTERCEPTIONS 
Miller 4 16.3 0 20 NO YOS TO LG 
Davis 1 6.0 0 6 2 61 0 43 1 22 0 22 
PUNT RETURNS 
1 0 0 0 

NO AVG TO LG Miller 5 15.4 1 56 

DEFENSE  TEAM STATISTICS  
T 20  A 7  TOT 27  PBU 0  SAC 3.0  NO  OPP  
Lane Magee B. Taylor Covington Gibson Flanigan Burris Wynn Knight Wagsay Nau Gmham Clark Wooden  17 12 12 16 10 11 10 9 8 8 7 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1  6 9 7 1 4 2 2 3 4 3 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 0 \ 1 1 0  23 21 19 17 14 13 12 12 12 11 9 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 2  0 1 0 3 2 3 2 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  0.0 0.5 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  First Downs by rushing by passing by penalty Total yardage Offensive plays Avg. yards per play Total yards I game Rushing yards Rushing plays Rushing yards I game Passing yards Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted Passing yards I game Fumbles -fumbles lost PenaHies • penaHy yards 3rd down conversions percentage 4th down conversions percentage  62 30 27 5 1150 197 5,84 383.3 594 140 198.0 556 40 57 0 185.3 1-1 20-173 16·36 44.4 0-1 0.0  56 21 31 4 972 199 4.88 324.0 290 93 96.7 682 68 106 5 227.3 3·2 22-203 20-42 47.6 3-4 75.0  
1  0  0  0.0  
1  0  0  0.0  
0  0  0.0  

The History of the Series 
The Last Time: The Records:
Notre Dame 48, Purdue 0 Notre Dame preserved their shut-out Notre Dame leads 41-21-2
with about six minutes left in the game by Last ND Win: 1992 (48-0) 
stopping Purdue on the one-yard line. 
Brian Hamilton, defensive end, jumped 
Last PU Win: 1985 (35-17) on a fumbled snap by Purdue quarter­Longest Series Streaks: back Matt Pike to prevent the score. The ND-8 (1906-1923) shutout was important for the confidence ttl 
MSU-3 (1958-1960,of the much maligned Irish defense. ":£.·. 
1967-1969)Tailback Reggie Brooks ran for 205 At Ross-Ade Stadium: yards on only 15 carries and scored three Earl Coleman Notre Dame leads series 15­times for the Irish. He overshadowed the 

8

96 yards and two touchdowns of fullback Jerome Bettis. The lone bright spot for Purdue was Earl Coleman who rushed for 48 yards on only three carries. 
Jeff Kilburg John Lynch WR6-2 179 se. Dan McConnell FL 5-10 175 So. 

COVER STORY 

Lake 
continued from page 1 
says Dawson, "That shows that you are a leader and as you mature you pass that on to the younger guys." 
It certainly sounds as if Dawson has a proven formula for success. He is one of the top receivers in the nation, an All­American candidate, and a team leader. 
However, life wasn't always so easy for the Federal Way, Washington native. In the spring of 1992 you could find Lake Dawson back home, over 2,500 miles from his school and his team­mates. 
It may seem like ancient history to Notre Dame fans, but for Dawson it had might as well be yesterday. It was admittedly one of the lowest times in Dawson's storybook career, as personal problems had forced him home for the spring semester. 
It was then that a defining moment for Lake Dawson occurred. He came home from class at a local college to find his mother waiting for him. 
"Pack your bags," she ordered. "For what?" answered Dawson. She finally revealed her surprise after Dawson pressed her further. 
"Your teammates are flying you out for the Blue and Gold game," replied Mrs. Dawson. 
It may seem like a simple gesture, to gather money together to purchase a plane ticket for a friend who is missed. To Dawson, it meant much more. 
"When they did that for me, I really can't explain in words the emotional thrill that I had from that. Right then and there I walked in to my room, and I had different little inspirational things up at that time because that was my hardest adversity then," continued Dawson. "And I was teary-eyed because I saw all my teammates' names up on the spring ball chart and thought 'Man, I'm missing out on where I should be, and obviously my friends think that I should be there too. 
"That's why this season is very impor­tant to me. I dedicated that last spring I had here to my teammates. I wanted to play my best ball for them because I never had anyone reach out to me like that, I mean besides my family. You have compete strangers here that pull together for one guy, that just goes to show you the trust and love and commit­ment that we have to one another." 
Trust, love. and commitment. It's one of those inspirational sayings that Dawson keeps close to him. 
Much like that show of support his teammates gave him, some would pass it off as maybe just another meaningless slogan. But these are words that Lake Dawson lives by. Football means more to the senior split end than catches and touchdowns, it means a common bond between him and his closest friends. 
"Trust in one another, commitment to one another. and a love for one another and a love for the game and a love Notre Dame," explains Dawson. 
Aspirations of professional football are undoubtedly in the back Dawson's mind, but right now his focus seems to elsewhere. He enjoys sharing stories about his mates, particularly the other members of the receiving corps. Besides his closest friend and roommate Clint Johnson, Dawson has a particularly unique relationships with junior Michael Miller and sophomore Derrick Mayes. 
During the Irish's upset win over Michigan three weeks ago, Dawson spot­ted Miller on the sidelines walking with his head down. Knowing the junior's penchant for losing confidence in him­self if things are not going his way, Dawson walked over to attempt to en­courage him. 
"I tried to tell Mike that you can't cor­rect that mistake, all you can do is put that aside and play the rest of this game," recalls Dawson, "I said that there's too much of the game left. You're going to make a big play, you've got to stay in this thing because we're going to need you today. Next thing I know, boom." 
Miller's punt return for a touchdown was the play of the game for the Irish in 

The Observer/Macy Hueckel Lake Dawson celebrates Notre Dame's win over Northwestern. 
their dramatic upset. 
"If you remain confident and believe in yourself it's going to happen," says Dawson. 
Dawson has also had a hand in the development of Mayes, who has matured into one of the Irish's top per­formers. 
"The best thing about Derrick is that he's very talented yet he is still willing to listen to someone who is older and has gone through other things," says Dawson, who feels one of his major strengths as a player is his ability to teach. 
"I kind of have a big brother-little brother relationship with him. He's a very close friend of mine, we try to hang out together as much as possible on the weekends, but we also push each other on the football field." 
All this leadership and responsibility may seem a bit much for a soft-spoken 21-year-old who is named after his grandfather, still carries his money in his sock, and tends to fall asleep before even the biggest games of his career. 
"I'm not very outspoken on the foot­ball field, as a matter of fact, believe it or not, I probably sit back and listen to everyone else talk," says Dawson, who contends that any showboating he per­forms on the field is in an attempt to get his teammates excited. 
"I try to show my leadership through my actions." 
It may seem then to be a mystery as to what inspires Lake Dawson, who is him­self a major source of inspiration for the team. Dawson finds inspiration in little things: simple sayings, quotes, and memories. 

"One [source] I came upon recently was the fact that my grandfather for the first time had the opportunity to come up here and see me play. He was very excited just to be here and for me it was just a normal game," remembers Dawson, "He inspires me because he didn't have the same opportunities that I have now as far as playing football, and he was so excited just to be a part of what a little thing I was doing, and I'm not doing very much. 
"It humbled me and helped me realize how blessed I am just to be able to say I play football for Notre Dame. That in­spires me to take advantage of the opportunity I have because looking at his eyes I really understood just how happy he was for me that I was playing football and going to school here and getting an education." 
It is those type of recollections that make Lake Dawson's eyes gleam with excitement. He confirms that it is those types of memories that serve as an ex­planation as to why he carries that smile. 
"I've been told that I'm a very approachable person. But I just try to treat people with the same amount of respect that they treat me with," con­cludes Dawson, "Therefore, I tend to smile a considerable amount, and try to represent myself as being friendly and just willing to reach out to people if they're willing to reach out back to me." 

II• -"pcr~~c~pc~q -.nr. ""'wold w111 onr--· M:oo may V111'1· c..tonw-_ ... -·~· DotMyar.,.lililtdiD.__-.g. OUr_.....,._. 
• 
IIGn S2000. 011'-are nc1 ponaiiZocl far,... -· 

• 
· 111110 Soull Bond l'lzza Ccrp., Inc. ~1lrno on. 



PRACTICE 
BREAKDOWN 

• 
30-45 minutes before flex (stretching) the kickers and punters come out and warm up. 

• 
The rest of the team arrives at practice and begins flex. 

• 
Coach Holtz brings team together. 

• 
Team breaks and goes over special teams. Depending on coaches preferences return and/or coverage teams are looked at, as well as field goal and punting units. 

• 
Offense and defensive units break up and timing of practice (periods) begin. The players are separated by posi­tion and they work on various agility drills or whatever aspect the coaches feel need work. 

• 
Kickers and Punters con­tinue to work individually for the remainder of practice 

• 
After five periods of individuals the offensive groups get together to run plays. Pass Skeleton is the term used when the receivers, quarterbacks, and running backs work on plays with no line. Lasts 3-4 peri­ods 

• 
The lineman join the rest of the team. The defense and offense then run live against scout teams which mirror the opponents offense and defense. 

• 
Coach Holtz calls the team together. 

• 
They break from the group and run sprints with individ­ual units 

• 
Weight training follows the end of practice. 


Typical practice time is two hours. 
MANAGERS RESPONSIBLE FOR SMOOTH PRACTICE 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz runs his practices the same as he does his life, like clockwork. 
"Sometimes you wouldn't think that he would notice something, but he always does," said stu­

dent manager Peter O'Reilly. "If practice goes only a few minutes over schedule you can be sure he will say some­thing." 
The responsibility of mak­ing sure nothing falls out of line is placed on the shoulders of the student managers. O'Reilly, along with fellow head managers Christopher Duba and Kevin Salmon, supervisors each practice and 


agers who help with the day­
to-day operations of the team. 
The managers announce the passing of each five­minute period by blowing a hom and changing the period number on signs that hang at several loca­tions. 
They must keep track of the people which visit practices, making sure that photographers do not shoot certain parts and that visitors don't impair the flow of practice. 
The most frequently thought duties such as hand­ing out water and collecting footballs are still the main activities of each manager. But things get far more complicated. 
"It is not unusual to find yourself playing tailback or defensive back for some coach if he is short of bodies," said O'Reilly. 
The managers are also held accountable for a far more complicated part of practice, several are assigned to chart plays. They must keep track of yardage gained by the offense or yards allowed by the defense. Also, they must keep note of the num­ber of balls dropped by receivers or passes allowed by the defensive backs. 
All the information is kept on a chart, a copy placed on each coach's desk before they retum from practice. 
Managers typically arrive two hours before prac­tice begins and stay 45 minutes after. 
STRETCHING 

It is not called stretch­ing but "flex" by players and coaches. 
For the length of one period (5 minutes), the players gather in two groups, offense and de­fense, lined up by posi­tion. 
There are no unique stretches but much emphasis is placed on stretching the neck. Injured players are taken aside by trainers and stretched indi­vidually. 
RUNNING 
The Irish run sprints after most practices, the num­ber contingent on the coaching staff's attitude towards the players
1 performance that day. A sprint in football 
ill terms is the length o the field. A short rest is awarded in between runs, but a very brie one. 
Traditionally ten sprints are the maxi­mum the players run, but after a bad practice Lou Holtz has been inclined to increase this number to 20. 
Injured players, i given special attention from the trainers, will usually sit out sprints depending on the injury. A stationary bike is the alternative. 

·,.. 
-


J<>C.f\ ~JHIP : 
National title talk begins early 
I
t begins in January, like a whisper in the winter wind. 
Quietly at first, after the dust of the previous season has settled, fans begin to talk about Notre 

Dame's national championship hopes 
Jason Kelly
for the next year. 

1. Florida 1544 1 
"Their defense is._______-" going to be great. If the offense can just come together, I know they can do it." It gets a little louder in February, when a new crop of high school heroes commi themselves to the championship quest. "That Powlus kid is supposed to be one of the best ever, he may be just what the team needs." Hope blooms like the flowers in March when the players return to the field for spring practice to hone the skills tha will make them champions. "I hear Lake Dawson is having a grea spring. With a receiver like that maybe they don't even need a great quar­terback." Fans quench their thirst for football i April at the Blue-Gold Game. Dame fuuLimii'1:i rite of spring means it's time to start serious national champi­onship talk. "Did you see the way McDougal led that comeback? That kid could take this team a long way." The talk heats up throughout the sum­mer, reaching its peak in the dog days o August. The pads must feel heavy whe practice begins in the sweltering sun, bu nothing is heavier than the weight o expectation. The names change from year to year, but the expectations remain the same. Notre Dame is supposed to win the national championship. Everyone knows that all the preseaso talk is premature, something to keep barber shop conversation lively. But every few years the fans come to a realization that is startling even after the preseason hype. Notre Dame really is a national cham­pionship contender. It's happened already this season. Vaulting seven places to the No. 4 spot in the polls after upsetting Michigan, the Irish became, whether they like it or not, a legitimate title challenger. The talk is no longer premature. The whisper is now a roar. "I think you get a pretty good ide after the sixth game of the season wha kind of team you're going to have," Iris coach Lou Holtz said, downplaying his team's ranking and title chances. The fans got a pretty good idea after the second game. "I thought if they could get pas Michigan they would have a great chance to win the national champi­onship." For the players and coaches those thoughts are still very premature. For the fans, they are long overdue. There are three major roadblocks Stanford, USC and Florida State-and couple of bumps-BYU and Bosto College-on the road to the title. Three of those games are at home and four of those five teams have already lost at least one game. Any team can stumble, but the prospects look very good for Notre Dame at the moment. Nevertheless, it is a long trip. The light, although still far in the distance, is clearly visible at the end of the tunnel. This January, Irish fans may be cele­brating rather than speculating. 
-
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
EDITOR: George Dorhmann GRAPHICS: Brendan Regan CONTRIBUTING WRITERS: Jason Kelly, Brian Kubicki, Jonathan Jensen 
Miami faces first test at Colorado 
~ ----~---~---~--~----~

------Games of interest----­
A,·TOP25i

#3 Miami at #13 Colorado winner may be the one who scores last. Colorado comes off one of the most 
9119 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 9/12exciting and controversial games of the #18 North Carolina at #19 North season, a 37-34 loss to Stanford on a Carolina State 
last-second touchdown toss from Steve The Tarheels dropped five spots after Stenstrom. Star linebacker Ron Woolfolk their 33-7 loss to No. 1 Florida State. 
2. Alain 1483 2 

and the Colorado defense was blistered North Carolina looked impressive in the 
3. Miini 1396 3

by Stenstrom, who was 30-42 for 382 big matchup with the Seminoles and yards and two touchdowns, including hung in tough; that what makes the lop­

4....... 1374 4 

the winning one with 14 seconds left on sided score so scary. 
5. Florida 1299 9 

the clock. The Tarheels are led by quarterback 
6. Nebraska 1170 8

Miami has been unimpressive in two Jason Stanicek, who led UNC to a 7-0 wins over Boston College and Virginia lead on a 28-yard pass to Bucky Brooks, 
7. Ohio State 1137 11 

Tech, as quarterback Frank Costa has and ended up the game 7-11 for 85 
8. Michigan 1007 10

yet to step in line with his more famous yards. Stanicek hurt his throwing shoul­predecessors at the position. der in the second half and was relieved 
9. Penn State 986 14 

Colorado has the most balanced offen­by former starter Mike Thomas, who 
10. OklilOOJa 974 12

sive attack in the country, which should promptly threw two interceptions in the provide a challenge for Miami's yet-to­next two possessions. 
11. Tennessee 912 5 

be-tested defense. Buffalo flanker Translation: if Stanicek is healthy 
12. SYJDJSe 004 6

Charles Johnson had his second-straight again, the Tarheels have a chance, if game with over 150 yards receiving last not, go with the Wolfpack. 
13. Colm·~~QH.l!JM 732 7 

week, as he hauled in eight catches for 
14. T~ A&M , 2-HI 688 16

172 yards from flashy quarterback Wake Forest at Northwestern Kordell Stewart. The Deamon Deacons travel to 
15. Arizona ' \ 3-0-0 680 15 

like last week's Colorado game, the Evanston after one of the greatest wins 
16. Washif9on 'IJ H1l -· 586 18

in recent Northwestern history. The Wildcats upset then-No. 22 Boston Col­
17. Slivlford .~ 2-t1l' 563 20 

lege in a 22-21 thriller on a successful 
18. NorthCa'olina, , 3-1~~~ 400 13 

two-point conversion by running back Dennis Lundy. 
19. North Ca'olina Ste-2-®.·li 463 17 

Northwestern's fans stormed the field 
::11. C~ifomia J-0.(1.>-375 21 

and attempted to tear down the goal­
21. Bri~ YOOWJ ---J:.ri.D 360 19

posts after last week's big win, after which they received two votes for the 
22. Virginia -3-Q-0 279 25 

top-25. This week they find themselves 
23. Wi 3-0-0 238 24

as six-and-a-half point favorites over a Wake Forest team that is nowhere near 
24. Louisville 235 

the national rankings. 
25. AOO!Jm 'r 63 
\ .

UCLA at #17 Stanford 
Others recei~ · es: _ Carolina 25,

The Cardinals come off the afrore­mentioned home upset of Colorado, 
looiana 24, West Vifginia 20, IWlsas Stie 17, 

while UCLA nearly pulled off an upset of 
Virginia loch 12, Texas 10, Michigan ~e 9,

their own, falling to No. 6 Nebraska 14­13. 
Fresno Slie 6, washin~on Slie 6, Mississippi

The Cardinal defense, which was the 
5, Baylor 4, Cllmson 4, srutBn Cal4, Arizona

strength of last year's team that knocked off Notre Dame, was severely 
Stie 3, ~2, HaWaii 2,·HorttMestem 2, 

lacking in last week's win, and must 
UCLA 1. ' 

improve if they hope to challenge for the Rose Bowl berth. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Ed Sherman Bill Jauss

Jonathan Jensen 
a few of the Midwest's best sports writers Chicago Tribune·s "The
Overall: 22-11 college football Sportswriters
Last Week: 7-4 pick their winners of this week's top 
writer On TV" college football matchups 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Illinois Illinois IllinoisMississippi Mississippi Georgia MississippiNorth Carolina NC State NC State North Carolina Georgia Tech Georgia Tech Clemson ClemsonWisconsin Wisconsin Wisconsin Indiana
The Observer
Stanford Stanford Stanford StanfordColorado Colorado Miami ColoradoNorthwestern Northwestern 
Sports Writers 
Northwestern Wake ForestTexas Louisville Last week: 27-17 Louisville TexasArkansas Arkansas Memphis State Memphis State 


vs 
Real Sports Writers 
Last week's guests: 26-18 George Dohrmann Jason Kelly 
J.A. Adande 

Overall: 21-12 Overall: 20-13 
Chicago Sun Times' Last Week: 6-5 Last Week: 6-5 
#4 Notre Dame at Purdue college football writer Oregon at Illinois
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Georgia at Mississippi
Illinois Illinois Illinois
#18 North Carolina at #19 NC State
Mississippi Georgia GeorgiaNC State North Carolina Georgia Tech at Clemson North Carolina 
Clemson Clemson #23 Wisconsin at Indiana 
Georgia Tech Wisconsin Wisconsin UCLA at #17 Stanford 
Wisconsin Stanford Stanford #3 Miami at #13 Colorado Stanford Miami Miami 
Wake Forest at Northwestern Miami 
Northwestern Northwestern 
Texas at #24 Louisville Northwestern 
Texas Louisville Texas
Memphis State at Arkansas
Arkansas Arkansas Memphis State 

L-~~-------------------------------------------------------------~--~~~._ _...~~~~~----~--~-------------------------------------­
Northwestern quarterback Len Williams 

··­

----~-~
~----------­
I 
I
_F_ri_da~y_,S_e~p_te_m_b_er_2_4_,_1_99_3____________________________T_h~e_O~b~s~eiT~er~·~A~C~C=E=N~T~--------------------------------------~p~~~e_1~3 

31 
Q}--~';:-~ 
Michiana 
Regional  C5  
Airpo+  ~  
-~------­ ~ 

.. {i(l Edison Rd.· ·<:'()111'1-. 
~ -~w. e~ 

w-·-(@} >,\ 
ROSS..ADE \,...---.-~..---.-~· 
1he suggested reute­
is as rollews: Take 
· Michigan Ave. north. Turn right immediate­ly after the stoplight _..· 
the Douglas Rd. · intersection to get on Interstate SO/Inter­state 90; head west. Turn left onto U.S. 421 south, and con­

-going to join Indiana 43. After ­passing under Interstate 65, continue on Indiana_43 to the second stoplight; turn right onto Indiana 26.' Go JJP the ·hill and tum right onto Grant St. to get toRciss--'Ade Stadium. -_.-_ 
Alternate route: Take U.S. 31/U.S. 33 ~uth. . Before the ~Witn Indiana 25, which · -­has a bridge under rspair (•), __ ta_k~ a-rig-ht onto Indiana 1_4. ~-.
N Continue on the detour by turn<>:: w .. E ing left onto liKiiana 17, --· · · •· ·. c: --·_­
and then turning left . . . . . s 
STADIUM onto Indiana 1:t.4. ­
(.'"'';\ '­

Turn right onto Indi­
\~o/\ 

ana 25, and follow it
+Purdue 
Airport _south before taking U$. 52 west. Stay on it briefly until tarning onto Indiana 43; see above. · · 

he definitive guide to surviving in Boilermaker territory 
By ELISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
With the Irish at 3-0 and num­ber four in the ranking, the excitement has begun to build. Next on the field are the Boilermakers, ready to try and the Irish streak. As usual, stu­dents have already started to pack up their bags and head south, hoping to cheer the team onto victory. If roadtripping to Purdue, pre­pare for approximately a two to two and a half hour drive. The best way to get to the campus is to take US 31 south to State Road until you see signs for Purdue. Be sure to cross the Wabsh River from Lafayette into West Lafayette. The game will be played in the 67,861 seat Ross-Ade Stadium, the largest stadium in the state of Indiana. It also carries the dis­tinction of being the only stadi­um in the Big Ten Conference to have "real grass" instead of artificial turf. West Lafayette is a big college town, and the campus is com­bined with the city. The com­bined population of Lafayette and West Lafayette exceeds 65,000. The West Lafayette campus of Purdue University boasts an enrollment of 35,833 students and has approximately 18,600 acres (of which more than 17,000 is used for agricul­tural research.) There is a con­siderably large Greek popula­tion at Purdue, with 20 sorority houses and 45 fraternity hous­es. The resident halls are relatively spread out on campus, but they are easily recognizable since most of the dorms are set up in quad formation. Cary quad, one of the largest complexes of dorms, is directly across from the stadium. The Ross-Ade stadium is on the north end of campus, and most tailgaters are held in the park­ing lot directly adjacent to the stadium. Winnebagos with the ND flag can be found ev­erywhere, just as if it were a home football game. Be sure to look for the Alumni Association van with a large awning and an ND banner, and have a pre­party with other ND fans. For students who are looking for a place to spend the night 
and don't have friends on cam­pus, Lafayette has many hotels. Budget Inn of America is lo­cated at Interstate 65 and State Road 26 East. The phone num­ber is (317) 447-7566, and the 144 rooms are equipped with cable television. Days Inn of Lafayette, located at 400 Sagamore Parkway South, has 190 rooms, satellite television and an outdoor pool. C. W. Dandy's restaurant and lounge is also located there, and the hotel's toll free number is 1­800-325-2525. Holiday Inn, located at In­terstate 65 North and State Road 43 North in West Lafayette, is complete with an indoor pool, restaurant and lounge. The tool free number is 1-800-238-8000. Howard Johnson's Plaza Hotel is on 4343 State Road 26 East at Interstate 65. The toll free number is 1-800-654-2000. There are refrigerators in all rooms, outdoor patios and an award winning restaurant. Ramada Inn, located at 4221 State Road 26 East at Interstate 65, has rooms with free cable television, and also includes Jeremiah Sweeney's Restaurant and Lounge. The toll free num­ber is 1-800-2-RAMADA. Red Roof Inn is located at 4201 State Road 26 East at Interstate 
65. The toll free number is 1­800-813-7663, and guests receive free local calls, coffee and newspapers. Signature Inn, located at 4230 State Road 26 East at Interstate 65, has cable television and free continental breakfast. The toll free number is 1-800-822­5252. The Purdue game is probably the last chance this season that roadtrippers will be able to conveniently travel a relatively short distance. Don't miss this opportunity to help to cheer the Irish onto another victory against the Boilermakers. 



--·---·------~------·-~--~~­
........--~-~----·------~­
~ 
.,.,,.., 

page 14 The Observer • LETTERS TO A LONELY GOD Friday, September 24, 1993 
.,. Human compassion will ward off the Devil's overtime 
J'accuse was the front-page 
dilemma. grasp on truth than the world, headline in the newspaper the flesh. and the Devil? which printed Emile Zola's J'accuse him of making a open letter to the President of Father Robert Griffin mockery of trial by jury. Apparently the Surgeon Gen­France, accusing various per­Damian William and Henry eral, distributing condoms, is sons of complicity in the Drey­Bellers Ia a Bone-(y 9od Watson are on trial in LA., for wiser than the Church; mar­fus case (1898). I'd like to bor­the videotaped attack on the riage counsellors who arrange row that headline to single out truck driver Reginald Denny. divorce must know more about the ghostly perpetrator of evil The supporters of the defen­love. Dr. Huth has a better un­who must be working overtime Preslin as the news-writing lau­get out of their faces ... dants have handed out a fact derstanding of the uses of hu­
around the world, lately. sheet: "Did those who rebelled man sexuality than the Chris­
reate of the boroughs, claims to break the law? Of course they tian theologians. 
tell things the way they are in "When sentiment triumphed
Usually, when I hear anyone did. As usual, the government
last week's New York maga­over reason, most New Yorkers 
mention the Devil and all his seeks to make examples of se­Notre Dame students are per­
zine. Taking Hamill's word on believed that these men were
works and pomps, I answer in lected scapegoats as a warning fectly entitled to believe that
the human blight in Hell's harmless ... not any more. Kevin
the words of Sportin' Life down to all who would rebel. that the R.C. Church is an im­
Kitchen, since I've been there McKiever, 34 and homeless, 
on Catfish How, "It ain't neces­pediment to the human race.
to see it happening, J'accuse wasn't a benign loser when he
sarily so."But lately. you could That is what this case is all But I'm not sure students are
the Spoiler of raising the stakes stabbed the life out of an ex­
almost say that he's been mak­about," As one observer ex­entitled to do all their loud­
on what's at risk when you Hockette. Larry Hogue, 48 and 
ing his debut as an activist, and plained, "The defense strategy mouthed grandstanding in a
become a lady mon to the dun­homeless, was not a passive
I've wondered if anyone else is: 'We weren't there. If we place where the builders have
in street people. solitary when he pushed a kid 
has noticed that he's out of the were there, that wasn't us on left their blood on the bricks. 
in front of a bus. Subway riders 
closet. the videotape. If that was us,
Hamill writes: "New Yorkers know these guys are not harm­we didn't do anything. If we did Finally, for the sake of my owndon't want to hear much about less. And most of the men know 
Using Zola's headline, J'accuse anything, we didn't intend it."' peace of mind, I would like to
the homeless any more. They it themselves. 
the diabolically-clever One of The defendants could walk on a believe that the article on
don't want to hear the sad and 
screwing up the genuinely good Catch-22. Father O'Connor's lecture on
terrible tales ... They don't want Thousands refuse to use the 
works of Christian charity. It miracles was badly reported.
to read interviews with men municipal shelters-which cost 
used to be possible for the After reading all the happy Reading about miracles as the
who live in cardboard boxes. the city $18,000 a year for each 
faint-hearted Catholic to serve horseshit in Tuesday's Observer way to conversion left me em­
They don't want to hear about cot-because they are too 'dan­
the Lord in good conscience by (the opinions were not neces­barrassed. J'accuse Catholics
Vietnam from men who were gerous.' The danger comes 
generously practising the sarily those of the Editors), I that need that peripheral stuff
fourteen the year the war from the men themselves, for
Golden Rule: giving cups of cold made up my mind that the time to accept miracles.The tete­
ended...They don't want to hear they are riddled with disease. water to the least of Christ's any more prison-yard raps. Fifty percent of those tested in has come to sound the alarm. evangelists also preach a mes­
brothers, visiting the prisoners, J'accuse the Devil of infiltrating sage of gloom and doom. Why
They don't want to hear any shelters have tuberculosis ... In 
and offering all those other acts this campus with lies which should God want to punish us
more sad songs. one shelter, 62% were HIV­
of kindness on which the Gospel darken them to the splendor of when we do such a good job of
positive." 

says that we can expect to be the Church. But when I read punishing ourselves? 
In 1980, when the first of these 
judged. students Church-bashing in the
young men started appearing Hamill's solution: "Military OBSERVER, I wonder if the I apologize to Father O'Connoramong us,most New Yorkers bases are closing because of the 
According to the complaints Devil makes them do it. for disagreeing with him. He is
were moved to pity.The taxpay­health emergency. they should 
were scholar, and I am
now coming out of the big ci­ers of New York be turned into homeless sanctu­a not. No 
ties-New York, L.A., Miami, ·why should Catholics want a matter how you try to baptize
forced ... to come up with hun­aries. The basic principle is 
Detroit-the once-deserving religion that they can approach happy horseshit, you can't turn
dreds of millions of dollars to quarantine." Hamill says there 
poor have become vicious, and like shoppers, picking and it into the science of God.
support the homeless in shel­would be the "usual paranoid
the down-trodden homeless choosing?" wrote .a Freshman. Possibly both Father Ed and I
ters, but New Yorkers didn't declarations about the cruel 
have turned into a predatory "Why don't they simply become are right to have strong opin­
complain about assuming this forces of the state creating con­
class for whom our charity has Protestants? What good is the ions about the Catholic faith in
burden. New Yorkers were centration camps for social
become a disservice. Church, which believes itself to which we have both grown old. 
moved by compassion to help undesirables." J' accuse his 
be the servant of Christ through the helpless. Not any more. majesty Beelzebub of leading
Pete Hamill. a twin to Jimmy time. if it always has a poorer
New Yorkers want these men to Americans to the horns of a 
Nowyou cango to the library
without leavmg your room. 
.. 
Interactive Jlrograms on CD-ROM 

Bring your papers, projects andpresentations to cover every subjectfrom politics to physiology. ~life hy incorporating photos. clip art and ahuRe mnetyAnd they mcorporale sound, animation, music -­...----ofl)pefonts-a/1 az1az/ableon CD-ROM. and r'ideo clips. So ordinary topics become more exdling, involzling and relevant. Plug in apair ofselfpoU'ered / speakers and the CD-ROM c/n'z1e plays audio / CDs too -so you can ti'Ork away,
Because asingle CD-ROM disc stores more 
U'hile listening to yourfai'Orile music.
information/han 500 floppy disks, you'll be able t~--­
..­
inslanl/;• access encyclopedias, dictionaries and extensive databases-all with the click of a mouse. 
We 'II et •en help you star/ your own CD-ROM library. Buy the Macintosh Centris 610 now, andyou'll

GV-ROM technology brings r•ast new also receiw the CD-ROM gift pack:capabilities to the desktop. Which is why, soon, two discs thai include an electronic
;,. t t " •1::: t -\-.:Jt \t:l~:_., ..,..:t.=.:·l.,.,:.l.t-Wi:i::>\~~ ~ "'\-J' more and more computers wHI include a CD-ROM ......... , ..,..,_, ..........,... iu"·"""~-li~~ encyclopedia, a dictionar;~ interacti11e 
dn't1e. Buy one, andyou're making an 
.t·"' d.. '·''"'"£jj"'""'''.....,....,...u· _..,_ -:· .... .......::··.. rock t•ideos, musicfor your audio
...:_::_:1-:.~,_~c~\-.~~=-·· .
Iii-······
illt'estmenllhat will last you well into thefuture. CD player and more (worth $327'). Macinlosb Promo CD gift pack FREE.
Apple Macinlosh Centris Tw 610 8/2?/J with CD-l/OAI, Macinlosh Color Display andApple Extended Keyboard II. 

CD-ROM technology puts libraries of information at your finger­our CD gift pack. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. While you're tips, and enables you to work with sound, video and animation. Buy there, ask about financing with the Apple' Computer Loan~ And ~ the Macintosh Centris'" 610 with CD-ROM drive, and you'll also receive discover the power of Macintosh~ The power to be your best~ tie 
Notre Dame Computer Store 
.. 
Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 

Friday, September 24, 1993 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
WE HERE AT STUDI0-5 ARE  DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO  WILL TRADE 2 GOOD PITT GAs  **HOT BABE**HOT BABE**HOT ..  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
NOTICES  LOOKING FOR MODELS TO POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­ PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$. CALL ALISA @ 4 -1302.  for any 2 FSU GAs. 272-9248.  Needs 1 Male and 1 Female  
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED  HELP!! NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­ STUD ticket for USC.  Hey Off-campus seniors ....  
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN  $$NEED STUDENT OR GA TICK­ WILL SELL 1 PITT GA  CALL x: 2703//ask for ELLIE!!  
Experience the ultimate of all  52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE  ETS FOR PITT, FLORIDA STATE  CALL HELEN x4026  The PW talent show needs you!!  
sports-SKYDIVING! Train with  10AM-6PM MON-FRI  AND BC.$$ CALL JOANNE AT  BABE**HOT BABE**HOT BABE**  
Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and  273-6588.  We Need PITT TIX  We are having it on Thursday, Sept  
receive 10% off our 1st Jump  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ 2 GA's and 3 stud. Call Jeff at  30 in Theodores ....  
Course, with student JD. West  Make money teaching basic con­ FSU TIX NEEDED!!I!I!I!  1612 or Kristen at 281:!  
Michigan's oldest & most experi­ versational English abroad. Japan,  CALL CRAIG @273-3942  NEED PITT tix X3731 -Reeny  It's big time now so get your acts  
enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to  PLEASE!!  together and call Jen Marten at  
ated. One hour North of South  $2000-$4000+ per month. Many  Need GA's to any Home Game  634-2706 to sign up!! II  
Bend. (616)628-4892  provide room & board + other bene­ Need 2 Fla. St. GA's  I NEED GA'S FOR USC & BC  232-1B52  
fits. No previous training or teaching  Best offer-call T J 232-5030  NICKX1777  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
certificate required. For more infor­ 
Typing  mation call: (206)632-1146 ext.  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  Need 1 USC G.A.I  
287-4082  J5584  MATT@ 232-3870  will trade pitt GAs for FSU GAs.  Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s  Hey PWites ...  
233-5130  Call Karen at 4-4987.  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fish­ The talent show is coming ...  
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS  eries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or  Need FSU stud tix  
RUNNING AND EATING PAN­ more per month on fishing vessels  ND vs USC -Need tickets for  will trade USC or PITT std. tix. for  call Aaron@ 272-3418  We need actsll  
CAKES. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ or in canneries. Many companies  1 0/23 game.Chris Marks  FSU std. tix. 233-5130. ask for  Be daring ... Be bold ... You don't  
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  provide transportation and room &  800-523-3139.  mike.  PURDUE GA'S FOR SALE  have to have any real talent...just  
FOR MORE INFO.  board. No experience necessary.  Face value-call232-7315  be creative!!!  
Male or Female. For more informa­ Need 8 PITT GA's Will take any  NEED 2 FLORIDA ST GAs  
tion call:1-206-545-4155 ex1. A5584  combination. $Call Amy 2658  Call Jessica@ X1298  Need Pitt GA's  The big event will be at 7 p.m. in  
Professional Typing  Call Andy @ 3654  Theodores on Thursday, Sept. 30.  
Desperately need a ride to and from  I NEED PITT TICKETS, GA PREF­ PITT AND USC GA s  ·-,.  
Dissertations, Term Papers  Cleveland for the weekend of Oct 2.  ERED call Tim at x1225  WANTED FOR RICH  Please help my Uncle live a lifelong  To sign up, see Jen Marten.  
Reasonable Rates  Will help pay for gas. Call Phil  ALUMNI $$$232-1348  dream: I need 2 BC GA's and a  
2n-7406  x0549.  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  female student ticket. Call Sean at  PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW  
GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210  4-3479  
FRIENDLY VOICES NEEDED TO  GA:s 2773097  
Executive Secretary will do typing in  CALL AREA RESIDENTS FOR  I am Selling Purdue GAs cheap.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­ 
Wordperfect. $1 per page. Will pick  AMERICAN HEART ASSOC.  #@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  I need Pitt GAs.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  agement and security to the pre­ 
up and deliver. Call Linda: 284­ START IMMEDIATELY. M-TH 5-9  call Mike at 277-8135  NEED FSU TICKETS  cious life your are carrying; a full­ 
6445 days or 277-9120 evenings.  pm. SAT. AM. CALL 258-4018  Help! I need four tickets to the  CALLJOHN 271-1706  time mom and loving dad; married  
Boston College game ....  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  12 years; promises that your child  
Person needed ASAP to  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  will have every opportunity. Please  
·I LOST & FOUND I  transcribe tapes for dissertation project. Can work at own conve­ If you would like to make a hot babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at  NEED GAs FOR PITT GAME  NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR  call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­B195.  
nience. Good typing skills a  634-2703 ...  USC OR BC  
must. Can pay $1 per page.  PLEASE CALL 273-4979  PLEASE CALL!!I  
Found... One key ring in 203A  Please call Bob Hanna on campus  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#  MAIRIN AT X2493  Let us take the worry out of your  
O'Shag. To claim please call  (1-7336) or home (291-1380).  ASK FOR SUSANNE :-)  decision. Call to learn about us, the  
Mike V. at 4-3661.  HAVE GA's EACH HM GM  I HAVE PURDUE TIX FOR SALE  love we have to share, and the life  
Desire companion to/fro Sarasota  271-1681  LEAVE A MESSAGE$$$$$$  CHRIS 271-7807  we would like to provide for your  
Fl. Thanks vac. in exchange for par­ baby. Strictly legal. Confidential.  
LOST: one eyepiece to binoculars  tial air fare. 291-5401  ###########################  Needed -2 tickets for  Call Sylvia and Ben. 1 (BOO) 579­ 
in section 29 at the MSU game. if  NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S  Pittsburgh/NO Game. Call 634­ 7207  
found call 273-4801  WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES  Tony x3327  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  4023  
TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES  
DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  NEED U S C TICKET 1111  PANCAKES AND IS WILLING TO  
LOST: I lost a Ricoh camera and a  FOR MORE INFO.  I really need 4 USC G.A.s­ RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET  
memorable roll of film in a blue  thanks! diane x4253  If you going home for break  4SALE 1USC STUDTIC CALL  THEM. DOMER RUN-SATUR­ ..-.  
camera bag during the M.S. football  In need of a business statistics  and need to sell your ticket­ KATE@3720  DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100  
game. Please call Erica @  tutor, will pay $. Call Deanna  FOR MORE INFO.  
282-2965 if you know about either!  @ 284-5007 ASAP!  Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA  HERE'S YOUR CHANCE ...... .  Will give big bucks and parents  
Need FSU tickets, stud or GA  weekend GA's for FSU GA's. Call  
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east side.of the library on a ledge: norm  FOR RENT  Call Dave at 4-3507  CALL 273-4979 .  Mike at X1620!  TOP 10 REASONS TO CARRY INSURANCE WHEN VISITING  
keys and car keys. Call Doug at 234-6306 to claim.  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ NEED 1 Pitt GA/Stud.$$$ call Sue x2768  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ••••••••••••• WANTED •••••••••••••  Uofl: 1 0. If you were from NO you'd give  
ND/SMC EVENTS  Need 2 PITT GAs (bad seats  I need USC tickets for my groovy  us that beer.  
LOST: A Diamond Tennis Bracelet  (219) 291-7153  WILL BUY 1 EACH FSU/USC OR  preferred) for my in-laws.273-0282  friends. Would like GA's but  9. Red: Undefeated BABY!  
at Red Field. Offering a REWARD  TRADE OCT 9 UM-MSU  Student Tickets are cool too!  B. Look it's Mr. Cousins!  
of $100. If found call Alicia at  Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­ 271-8689 (CAL)  DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST  Call Amy at 4-1339. Thanks!!!!!!!!!!!!  7. Order #13 @  
273-6897. Extreme sentimental  Private.  WISH: SEE PITT VS. ND NEED 2  Murphy's...CRASH!  
value.  257-9101  Nedd 1 Pitt Ticket -GA or Student ­ PITT GA'S DONALD x1724.  6. Where the hell is Denny's?  
so that my little brother can attend  Do you want 4 hot girls, a ticket  5. Billy party of 6.  
Lost: Green army-type bookbag  LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN.  the game. Will pay big bucks. Jim  NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME  to Purdue, and a RIDE for $25?  4. Vavoom!  
with German book and dictionary.  SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO  x1865  GAME. MIKE@ 1724  (Single Men only Please)x3232  3. Open the door damnit! The frat  
Reward. 237-0659.  CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­ boys want to rape and pillage.  
PUS $225. M0.272-6306  Would really appreciate 1 USC  Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261  2. Do you blow glass?  
Student ticket. Call Phil x0549  Desperately seeking 3 Pitt GA's or  1. WHATIS THE SHOCKER?  
Found-Silver necklace. Call271­ I WILL BUY 2 USC GA'S. AFTER I  Stud. Call Brian at 4-1553  
2911 to identify  FOR SALE  NEED 2 PITT GA'S  BUY 2 GA'S I WILL BE SELLING 1 STUDENT FOR USC. CALL  Jeff & Billy come to visit us -you have enough clothes in the back!  
&  BROOKE X4369  I NEED two Pitt GA's  and remember: Keep on Keepin'  
Foosball table 4 sale. Tornado com­ 2 BC STUDTIX  Call Matt at x16B6  on!  
I left an ND bookstore bag at  mercial heavy duty. Good shape.  x2300  NEED 2 PITT GA'S MIKE x1534  Love, Diane, Deb, Erin & Jen  
Stepan fields on Monday following  $650. 299-1644  
soccer practice. Inside was a pair of  Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs for 2 Pitt  NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194.  I NEED PITT TICKETS  AnTostal General Meeting. 7:00  
shoes and an SMC Rome program  or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545  pm in the Hesburgh Auditorium.  
T-shirt. Keep the shoes, man, I  BEER SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  4 Football Tickets Notre Dame/BYU  CALL AMANDA @ 232-69B4  Monday, September 27th. All gen­ 
could use some new ones. But  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  $$ WANTED!! $$  (801 )798-2340 Evenings.  ders, sexes, years, classes, people,  
please return the shirt to Dave in  dorms, associations, groups, con­ 
Morrissey 4-3651.  '83 FORD ESCORT, 4 dr, air $700 20" Sony Trinitron TV $100  FSU and BC TIX!!  NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR.  PERSONAL  claves, pairs, triads, diopolies ..are more than welcome. We need to  
VCR $100 273-9042  273-3930 Tracy  GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO  choose an executive council, and  
GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­ the positions are open to any inter­ 
Found -Gold bracelet @ Campus  $$ WANTED! ! $$  1429  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  ested males/females/ undeclareds.  
View Apts. Call 273-5909 to identify  StLouis bound? And trip TWA  $  7:00pm, Monday Sept. 27th,  
direct flight tix for female Oct22­ FSU and BC TIXI!  Hesburgh Auditorium.  
Nov1 $135: 233-2698  I NEED STANFORD TIX CALL  SHORT ON CASH?  
Found -Elizabeth A.  273-3930 Tracy  JOHN x3485  
I found your football tix in  81 HONDA PRELUDE $645  MORRISSEY LOAN FUND  ATTENTION SOPHOMORES!!!!  
DeBartolo.  Sunroof, AC, AM-FM Cassette,  NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC.  "I NEED TICKETS"  1% interest  
Call 273-6405  104K miles 277-9245  Please call Lisa after  3 Pittsburgh (10/9) Bill@273-2823  $1 0-$250 loans  Class Mass is Oct. 3, 2:00 p.m. at  
5 P.M. at 232-2728.  the Grotto. (If rain: Keenan­ 
KEYBOARD Yamaha DX-27 w/  NEED TICKETS  STOP BY 11 :30-12:30 mon.-fri.  Stanford Chapel)  
Accesories $300 or best. call KJ @  lmportant!!!!!!!ll!l!!!!l!!!lll!!  I need tickets for these games:  O'hara Lounge, Lafortune  
I LEFT MY WALLET IN THE FIRST  232-7838  Need 2 or 4 GA's for BC  BC (student ticket)  (next to info. desk)  Father Miscamble will preside.  
RACKET BALL COURT LAST  ND Alum-Fanatic  PITT (student and GAs)  
NIGHT AT THE ROCK. I WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE GETTING  1 0 speed like new bike for sale $20 or b/o @ 273-5097  Will pay any price!!l!!l!l Call Katie 4-3390  Call Jen or Nicky at X130B  $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $  Don't miss this opportunity to cele­ -­ 
MY ID BACK. IF THERE IS STILL  (leave message)  SALE 2 PITT & BC GA's  brate Mass with friends!  
MONEY IN THE WALLET I WILL  Call Dan x3666  It's not just a phase. glndlsmc po  
BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO OFFER A REWARD. CALL ME  TICKETS  NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA  HAVE 4 Pitt GAs  194 ND IN 46556  HAPPY B-DAY TONIA!!  
BRYAN MEYER #2115 OR LEAVE  STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­ NEED 2 FSU GAs  
IT WITH MY RECTOR AT STAN·  I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL  8826 AFTER 5 PM  Call Jason @ x2052  Will make LOVE for FOOD!!! Call  Four blind, red-headed nymphos  
FORD HALL.  TIXS.272-6306  to TRADE, buy, or sell  Keith Anderson @ 273-3920.  from Fordham are begging for USC  
Need 2 Pitt tix -GA or student. Call Sean x1223  NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General  Serious calls only please ...... . ,,  tickets. Will pay with cash or their bodies. Want to see if the rumors  
WANTED  NEED G.A.'S-3 PITT, 4 USC, 4 FSU. PLEASE CALL Joe @ 1613.  Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201­217-0030 (W) 201-992-B700  Seeking information regarding ' · European travel and backpacking '.  about Irish men are true. Call 4­4212 ask for Betty.  
WANTED: 2 USC GA's.  for the summer of '94. Good time  
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ FOR SALE  for two frugal students. Please call  HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROOSTER!!!  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  ETS! 2 GAs for Mich. State, FSU,  Will trade 2 BC Married St Tix  GAs for all  Theresa-x2496 or Bevin-x2569.  Love your roomies,  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  and BC call: A. Raczkowski  (no ID needed) and$$$$.  home games  Roxy & She-nay-nay  
BREAK TRIPS! SELL ONLY 8  (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums  & Stanford  NO VIDEO  
TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS  with jobs -will pay big $$$!  Call Dan @ 273-1497  2B8-5282  GRAND OPENING WEEKEND  
& PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN,  Thursday, Friday, Saturday­ Yoo Hool Oh Sexy Roomie  
JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800­ Have GA's to all Home Games &  WILL TRADE 2 BC FOR 2 USC  First 1 00 movie rentals get free  Have a Happy 20th Liz  
678-6386!  Mich. Call232-7316 from 7-8 p.m.  I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY  OR 2 FSU FOR 2 GOOD USC  microwave popcorn.  P.S. Don't have too much fun in  
MIKE x2292  FRANK 232-2256 (late evening)  the Soy Bean Capital of the World  

Men 
continued from page24 
honors. 

Defensively. goalie Scott Coufal added two more shutouts to his already impres­sive statistic list. The red­shirted freshman now has 3.5 shutouts on the season and a .35 goals against average. 
"We're playing as well as we have for some time," said Hoosier head coach Jerry Yeagley, who is now in his 21st year at Indiana. "Our team is looking good, but what we need to avoid is a letdown." 
These two teams did battle earlier this season in the fifth annual Golden Boot Classic, a final preseason tune-up in which both sides experimented with several line combinations. Indiana won the match 3-2 with all five goals scored in the first half. 
"This is a crucial game for Notre Dame," continued Yeagley. "This is a chance for them to gain national expo­sure." 
The Irish have a 1-12-1 series record against the Hoosiers, with their last victory coming in 1987 by the score of 4-3. Last season, Indiana downed Notre Dame 3-0. 
"Our team will play hard and be competitive," said Berticelli. "We have to match up and play at both ends of the field." 
The Irish will have to defend against a fast and well-bal­anced Hoosier scoring attack, led by forward Harry Weiss, who has four goals on the sea­son, and All-American Todd Yeagley, who has recorded three assists in a defensive roll. 
Notre Dame will look to junior Tim Oates and sopho­more Bill Lanza for offensive production against a stifling Indiana defensive scheme. 
"We're always ready to play Indiana, as they're always ready to play us," continued Berticelli. "They never look at our game lightly." 
TOYO GRfll 
Traditional Japanese/Korean Charbroiled 
®1!ll~~ii~ T~lMlW>1!111t&~ G&lllhii~ lE1!11ll!~!ii~ '1f~1riiy:nlkii~ 
HOURS: Sua Yda &llil!!ll Slk&lb1!11 Slk&lb1!11 
11-2:30 (lunch) Carry Out Available 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

5-9:30 (dinner) 620 W. Edison Rd. • Mishawaka 
Freshman Brian Engesser slide tackles a Butler player. Engesser and the Irish battle No. 3 Indiana tonight. 
Sat-Sun 4-9 St. Andrew's Plaza • 254-9120 
Invite 
continued from page 24 
two weeks ago. 
"Our primary objective is to win the meet outright," said McWilliams. "The key will be to run as a group. The team will be within an arm's reach of each other the entire race." 
Junior J.R. Meloro, who has looked strong in practice this week, echoed this team con­cept. 
"The real focus of our effort will be to run as a group," noted Meloro. "Anytime some­one on our team is hurting, he knows he can look to either side of him and see his team­mates right there with him." 
This team, or "pack" ap­proach to running is a main­stay at Notre Dame, and ac­cording to freshman sensation Matt Althoff, it may be what gives the team that extra edge. Althoff, who was the top Irish finisher at the Georgetown 
London $269 St. Petersburg $399 Belize City $229 Rio de Janeiro $505 Bangkok $619 
Airfares are each wrtt b«;ed on aroundtrip 
purchase and subject to change. Restrictions 
apply Taxes not 1ncluded

r 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 


meet, supported his team­mate's comments and added an illustration of his own. 
"I believe what has made this team successful has been our running as a group," said the soft-spoken freshman from Yankton, South Dakota. "It gives us a psychological boost. If you're thinking right up­stairs, then you forget about the physical burden down­stairs." 
The Irish hope to be thinking right today. One thing they must think of, according to Piane, is the LaSalle team. "In order to win this race, we need to keep LaSalle in sight at all times," said Piane. "We can't assume that just because we won this meet last year, we will win it again." 

~,;r;:'~:::B.:.'::.~-«~~"-·~ .,, 'ft..,.«":/',«>'~""' "ff$%~(#;/:tf:»'<:~eyw:-· ~~ 
Juniors Juniors Juniors Juniors 
Sign up now for the 3 on 3 Basketball Classic. The tournament, with male, female, and co-ed teams, will begin on October 3 through October 10. Each team must have a minimum of two Juniors and the $2 entrance fee will go towards prizes. A team captain can sign­up in Room 213 of LaFortune from 3:00­5:00 until Tuesday, September 28. 
.. 

UNIORS 
The class mass and cookout will be this Sunday, September 26. Mass will begin at 4:30 at the Grotto, followed by a B-B-Q in front of Stonehenge with music by XYZ Affair 
(In case of rain, mass will be in Sacred Heart Crypt. 8-B-Q will be postponed.) 

----~~~--~-~ --~------------------~ 
Friday, September 24, 1993 
The Observer • AMERICAN LEAGUE page 17 

"Tell Medjugorje that I am with you. I bless you. I beg you: protect Medjugorje, protect Our Lady's message!" Pone John Paul II "Medjugorje is a sign to all ofyou and a call to pray and live the days ofgrace that God is giving you ... pray to understand the signs ofthe time." Our Lady from Med!ugorje 
u 

August 25, 1993, Message from 
Our Lady, the Queen ofPeace 
"Dear Children! I want you to understand that I am your Mother, that I want to help you and call you to prayer. Only by prayer can you understand and accept my messages and practice them in your life. Read Sacred Scripture, live it, and pray to understand the signs of the time. This is a special time. Therefore, I am with you to draw you close to my heart and the Heart ofmy Son, Jesus. Dear little children, I want you to be childrenofthe light and notofthe darkness. Therefore, live what I am telling you. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
Join us this Saturday and Receive Our Lady's September 25th Message! 
TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE-5:30P.M. SATURDAY-LIBRARY CIRCLE-N.D. VAN DEPARTS FOR MASS 
Queen of Peace Mass 
-
Saturday, September 25th, 6:30p.m. at St. Adalbert Catholic Church. Fr. Luciano Alimandi, secretary to Bishop Paolo Maria Hnilica (confidant to Pope John Paul II) has traveled from Rome in order to preside at Mass and present the Bishop's call: Are you ready? 
... 
Become an apostle for the last and greatest battle: The Triumph ofthe Immaculate Heart o(Mary! 
-ALSO­8:15p.m. -This Monday Night -Hesburgh Library Auditorium (Sept. 27th) Questions and answers concerning the Bishop's lay family-Pro Deo et Fratribus­dedicated to the last and greatest battle: the Triumph of Mary's Immaculate Heart! 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Anyone interested in coach­ing youth hockey for the ND youth hockey league call Debbie at 277-7519. 
~:w\ 

Any women 
playing lacrosse with 
the Sain Mary's/NO women•s lacrosse club, please call Emily Hage.at X2856 or Michelle McQuilla at X2894 by Bt}ginners are welcome. 
,,;,.,."--Wlk~i·:/~H!Ft:: -:=·· 
Notre Dame Sports Information is looking for vol­unteer help for the 1993-94 academic year. Their office handles statistics, press re­leases and media guides for all Irish varsity sports. For more information, call Rose at 631­7516. 
C~O?ST~CkS 
CHINESE FAST FOOD 
We Deliver to your dorm! Mon ; Thurs 11 a.m. ; 9 p.m. Fri & Sat 11 a.m. --10 p.m. 
East Location: 
$6 minimum 
525 N. Eddy St. 
$1 service charge for 
South Bend, IN 
orders under $15 
232,1177 
Magic numbers shrinking in American League 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Roberto Alomar drove in three runs with a homer and two-run triple and Dave Stewart allowed three hits over seven innings Thursday night as the Toronto Blue Jays inched closer to their third consecutive AL East title with a 5-1 victory over the Boston Red Sox. 
The Blue Jays have won 10 of 11 and hold a 5 1/2-game lead over the second-place New York Yankees and six games over the Baltimore Orioles, both of whom were idle. It also reduced the Blue Jays' magic number to clinch the division to five. 
Stewart (11-8), who held the Red Sox hitless until Scott Cooper singled to lead off the fifth, allowed one run, struck 
out three and walked three for 
his third straight victory. 
Nate Minchey (1-1) allowed five runs and five hits -three of them homers -over 6 1-3 innings in his third major league start. He struck out three and walked three. 
In the first, Alomar, who has career highs in homers and RBis this season, hit his 17th homer into the second deck in right for his 86th RBI. 
John Olerud homered to cen­ter in the second -his first in a month and 24th of the season -for a 2-0 lead. In the third, Rickey Henderson singled with one out, Devon White walked and Alomar lined a triple over right fielder Rob Deer's out­stretched glove for a 4-0 lead. 
Cooper doubled to start the seventh, went to third on John Valentin's groundout and scored on Greg Blosser's groundout to trim the lead to 4­1. 
Pat Borders chased Minchey in the seventh with his eighth homer. 
WHITE SOX 7 
ANGELS 1 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Ron Karkovice homered, dou­bled and drove in four runs Thursday to help Jack McDowell snap a three-game losing streak and lift the Chicago White Sox over the California Angels 7-1. 
The White Sox stretched their AL West lead to six games over the Texas Rangers, who were off, and reduced the magic number for their first division title since 1983 to five. 
McDowell (22-10), who leads the major leagues in victories, pitched a four-hitter, struck out five and walked two in his lOth complete game this season. He allowed an RBI single in the second to J.T. Snow. 
Chicago, with an AL-leading 46 road wins, went 7-3 on their road trip and won 3 of 4 against the Angels. When they began the trip to Kansas City, Oakland and California, they led_Texas by 3 1/2 games. 
The White Sox return home to play the Rangers in a three­game series beginning Friday, and can clinch the division title with a sweep. 
Karkovice put the White Sox ahead to stay with a two-run homer, his 20th, off Mark Langston (15-10) in the fifth. Karkovice built the lead to 5-1 with a two-run double in the sixth. 
Chicago Sox scored four times in that inning. 
Braves and Giants continue NL West battle 
Both teams look like champions in decisive wins 

Associated Press 
MONTREAL 

Greg Maddux won his seventh straight decision and lowered his major league-leading ERA to 2.42 as Atlanta won for the 16th time in 20 games. 
The Braves, who reduced their magic number for a third straight NL West title to eight, held their 2 112-game lead over San Francisco in the NL West. 
Montreal fell six games be­hind idle Philadelphia in the East. 
Maddux (19-9) allowed two runs, one earned, on six hits in eight innings. 
Dennis Martinez (14-9) lost for the first time in four deci­sions since turning down a pro­posed trade to Atlanta on Aug. 25. 
Martinez allowed five runs on seven hits in seven innings. He failed in his third bid to become the seventh pitcher to win 100 games in both leagues. 
Atlanta trailed 1-0 when Damon Berryhill and Mark Lemke led otT the nfth with sin­gles. After a sacrifice by Maddux, a run scored when drawn-in second baseman Delino DeShields showed inde­cision on a grounder by Otis Nixon and made the play to first. 
Jeff Blauser followed with a grounder that DeShields stopped up the middle. His throw was a bit wide, and Marrero was ruled to have come off early. Unlike Tuesday's call by Vanover, however, the Expos did not ar­gue. 
Ron Gant was hit by a pitch, Fred McGriff walked and Justice doubled over right field­er Larry Walker. Justice tied Gant for the NL lead with 113 RBis. 
Darrin Fletcher hit sacrifice flies for the Expos in the first and sixth innings. 
David Justice's three-run double capped a five-run burst in the fifth. 
Pinch-hitter Curtis Pride tripled home a run in the ninth for Montreal. 
Giants 7 
Astros 0 HOUSTON 

John Burkett became San Francisco's first 20-game win­ner in seven years and Barry Bonds had three doubles and two RBis. 
The Giants, who have won six of seven, remained 2 1/2 games behind first-place Atlanta in the NL West. 
Burkett (20-7) allowed three hits over eight innings in the Giants' second straight shutout of Houston. Kevin Rogers pitched a hitless ninth. 
Burkett is the third pitcher in the major leagues to win 20 this season joining Jack McDowell of the Chicago White Sox and Atlanta's Tom Glavine. The last San Francisco pitcher to win 20 games was Mike Krukow who was 20-9 in 1986. 
Doug Drabek (9-17) pitched 7 1-3 innings, allowing nine hits and five runs. 
Bonds drove in his first run in the fourth when his RBI double made it 1-0. His RBI double in the sixth made it 3-0 and he then scored on a single by Kirt Manwaring. 
Bonds' theory is that the San Francisco Giants just had to get away from home to revive their NL West title hopes. 

"'The Blues Brothers' is a Scream... 
Onl' of thl' ,dl-timl' grl'at (llll1l'dil'~ ... a llat-out winner:' 
l ;l'Ol' .... l... ~l'l. Chit.'•ll-!\' Trihut'h· 
"Don't miss the 'Blues' brother... 

a mir<h.k ,,t '<lllllll. .tdi<ll1 .1nJ hil!h 'pirih \<HI (,111111>1 ,,H,,r,IIP mi"· :'\n l'XtraurJin.tr\ nH\\ il·:' t\r~,. h,·r \\ irl'-fl·n, ·""''' 'h\rl.. p,.,, 

JOHN BELUSHI DANAYKROYD 
.5AB i.:II~' !IJ ~1 ~' \(1).: I§,~, 
Fn~idv&Saturdayar7and9:30p.m-\I '-1\IH'\II'Illtlo 
~~;.?;1~ Carroll Aud1ronum Sainr Maf)·'s ··-···~·······.-.. -... -.-•••,, .., 
Admis.~1on $2 R 
t-lappy 19th BirthdayJ Tyler! We love you. 

The Department of Music Presents 
A GUEST ARTIST CONCERT 
ND/SMC PRE--LAw SociETY 
o/ermeer Quartet 
Shmuel Ashkenasi, violin Mathias Tacke, violin-Richard Young, viola 
Moe~ lSAlf
Marc Johnson, cello 
Dvorak's Quartet in D Minor, Op. 34 Kurtag's Twelve Microludes, Op. 13 Beethoven's Quartet inC-sharp Minor, Op. 131 
OpEN TO EVERYONE
Sunday, September 26, 2:00 p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
SAT., SEpT. 25' 8:00A.M. iN
$5 General Admission, $2 Students and Senior Citizens 
CusHiNq AudiTORiUM CosT: $5.00 
; 

"We're a lot more relaxed on the road than at home. Sometimes playing at home can be a distraction. When you get on the road all you have to worry about is playing," Bonds said Thursday night after the Giants beat the Astros 7-0 to give them a 6-1 record on the road trip and keep them 2 1/2 games behind first-place "We're getting back to the Atlanta, which beat Montreal 6-same frame of mind we were in 

3. when we were winning consis­
The Giants had lost eight tently. We just got in a slide straight at home before going and unfortunately it happened on the road. at the wrong time," said Bonds 
~----------------------------~ 
1 BUY A QUART, GET A PINT FREE. : 
I 
TAKE •EM HOMEI  I I  
Plt:ese prt:st:nt coupon bdort: ordt:rlng. One  ~~  :  
I  coupon per customer per visit. Offer good only t~t t~ddrt:ss t~boll'f!. Not valid In comblnt~tlon with  ~O.cgm:gl~=-..-..  :  

I t~ny other offer. Expl~s 10/31/93 .,...._ 'c.n·• ..,_ ~~-.... u« I
L---------------------------­
YOU ARE WELCOME TO JOIN US 
OLD COLLEGE NIGHTS 
A time for shared discussion, hospitality and prayer welcoming those seeking to explore an interest in the priesthood or brotherhood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Monday, September 27, 1993 7 P.M. until 8:30P.M. 
"WHO ARE WE? WHY ARE WE HERE?" 
Notre Dame and Holy Cross undergraduates speak about the Old College seminary program. 
The Old College is located on the Notre Dame campus facing St. Mary's Lake and adjacent to the Log Chapel and Architecture Building. It serves as the House of Studies for college undergraduates discerning a vocation to religious life and priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. W. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Vocation Directors 63 t·6385 
Friday, September 24, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
game. they're ranked right now," said McCarthy scored for the Irish who has been listed as game­Tonight the Irish will be Petrucelli. "They're definitely a with Guerrero assisting. to-game for the past two weeks, Women much better prepared for their top 20 team." "I think if we just play the may now be out for the season. bout with the Wolfpack. way we've been playing then After undergoing tests this
continued from page 24 
"It's not going to be easy," The Mustangs, who were then we should be okay," McCarthy week it was discovered that she said Guerrero. "Of all the ranked sixth, knocked off the said. "If we go out with the has a stress fracture in her leftthis season. It is a very athletic 
games we've played, this will Irish 3-1 last season at SMU's same attitude that we've been leg.
team which boasts a defense 
be the toughest." Ownby Stadium in what playing with then we'll be fine." Ragen Coyne, who has startedthat can seem impenetrable at The battle of the potent Notre Petrucelli called the "worst "They're two tough teams," every game in the last two sea­times. 
Dame offense and the stellar N. beating we had all year." It was said Petrucelli. "It's going to be sons for the Irish, is listed as"They're very talented," said C. State defense could be the Notre Dame's first time ever a lot harder than last week­questionable for the weekend
Notre Dame head coach Chris 
deciding factor in the game. playing on turf, and the ad­end." with a pulled hamstring. 
Petrucelli. "I think they're one 
justment proved to be a serious
of the best teams in the coun­
"We're going to try to move disadvantage. Michelle Junior defender Jill Matesic,
try." 
the ball as quickly as we can,""I think North Carolina State Petrucelli said. "If we can keepis better than it's ranked," said the ball away from them weGuerrero. "But it doesn't mat­should be successful." 
ter what you're ranked, it's how you play in games." 
The Irish will wrap up their weekend on Sunday against a
Last year the Irish met the 
talented Southern Methodist
Wolfpack at Raleigh in their University team. 
season opener. With all three captains out due to injuries, the 
The Mustangs were ranked in
team started five freshman, 
the top 20 in the ISAA pre-sea­
four sophomores and two ju­son poll but have since fallenniors. Even with the inexperi­out of the rankings. They are
ence the 18th-ranked Irish 
led by senior forward Kara Lee, were still tied 3-3 with the fifth who scored 36 goals and added 
ranked Wolfpack with under 13 assists last season.
twenty minutes left in the "It doesn't matter what 

The Observer 
Are you a freshiPan, sophomore, or junior interested in sales? 
(It is a paid position!) 
Work your own hours and at your own pace ... Applicant should be highly motivated and H~ble. Anyone interested please contact Anne Heroman,-~··.· Advertising Manager, at the Observer 631-69GO ; 
\ 
I' ',. \ 

Junior Jill Matesic 'and the No. 3 women's soccer team play N.C. State and SMU in this weekend's Golden Dome Classic. 
Freshman Class Council Elections 
Do YOU want to serve as the representative from your dorm on the Freshman Class Council? 
1. 
Pick up a petition from your hall Judicial Board Commissioner on WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22. 

2. 
Have at least 10 signatures on the petition, and return it to your J-Board Commissioner by 12:00 noon on SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 26. 

3. 
Campaigning begins at 12:00 a.m. on MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, and ends at 11:59 p.m., giving you all day Monday and Tuesday. 

4. 
No more than $20 may be spent on campaign materials by each candidate. 

5. 
ELECTIONS ARE TO BE HELD IN EACH HALL ON WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29. 


Offensive fireworks open women's interhall season 
P.W pounds Knott, P.E. and B-P wins thriller, Badin rolls in Gold League 
Lewis also win in Blue League 
By CRISTINA CORONADO piece, but they were both Sports Wrir•r called back. Pasquerilla East's lost touchdown was due 
The women's inter-hall foot~ to offensive holding, while ball teams are suited up once Farley's was offensive pass again for another tough season interference. of flag football. The teams Pasquerilla East's defense piled up on Cartier Field scored the only two points in Wednesday to kick off the sea­the game as they pushed son. Farley's offense into the end-
zone. PASQUERILIA WEST 21 "We finally scored on a safe-KNOTT 0 ty thanks to our defense," 
Starting off with a big win, freshman Leanne Carroll said. the Pasquerilla West team After scoring, the came out strong defeating Pasquerilla East team kept Knott Hall. their lead by denying Farley 
"We started off pretty the ball. strong and we've really come "Our defense kept us in the together," quar-game," senior terback Bethany ,,,;:;;,,,, Marina Aikdas said. 
Riddle stated. . .-< 1!;.·.··.''.'••..B1.. •••.••ifl... A.·.. Defensiv~ pla~­
The Pasquenlla ~ ~ ....'.,.,.,.· .:~ ~;{..(, ers Laura Miikav1c 
~~~ 'Yr~~~:l~: lE"-~~:!~:~~J·.~g:~~·,~ 
the option to Sar_a ·woMENJS .Farley Hall exer-Rapp, who ran It ·.. ··••• ... ''''''''?('''''·'· c1sed an extremely in. The extra FQ(}'lj)-1\LL strong defense. point was attained · · .· Melisa Mapes had a by a pass to senior the only intercep-Jenny Tate. tion. along with AnMarie Quest 
The following touchdowns and Emily Blum who were key were scored as Bethany Riddle players on defense. passed to Christy Lewis push-Offensively the team strug­ing the score to 13-0. gled with a few upsets in their 
Riddle then ran the ball in game plan. for the extra point as well as "We had some bad breaks in for the next touchdown. terms of scoring," team captain Lineman Nicole Till followed it Gretchen Ganc said. "The up with the extra point. touchdown called back was an 
Despite the loss, the Knott extremely bad break." team's defense performed well and has hopes of improvement. LEWIS 12 
"We're a young team, with a SIEGFRIED 0 lot of freshman. This game Closing up the games last was a good experience," quar­Wednesday, Lewis Hall shut terback Karen Wallace stated. out opposing team Siegfried "We're learning a lot as well." Hall 12-0. 
The Knott offensive line also "The defense played really proved worthy as Wallace went well and stopped their untouched the entire game. offense." tight end Julie Fleck Defensive player Lisa Bonjovi stated. had the only Knott intercep­Lewis' first touchdown was tion. scored by a pass from quarter­
back Mary Beth Failla to Fleck. PASQUERILLA EAST 2 The second touchdown was FARLEYO scored using the "Center 
The Pasquerilla East Pyros Sneak" play as Sara encountered a tough game Radkidwicz ran it in for six with opponent Farley Hall. points. Both extra points were The game remained tied at 0-0 missed. The score then for the entire first half and remained at 12-0. most of the second. Both Annette Putz chalked up a teams had a touchdown a few sacks. Defensive player 
Meg Zgrabik helped keep the 
ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION jUNIORS 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to: 
Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio 
no later than Oct 1 , 1993. 
By KELLY CORNELIS Spom Wrirer 

On a chilly Thursday night at Cartier Field, six women's dorms began their 1993 inter­hall football seasons. 
HOWARD 13 
WALSH6 

In the first game of the night, Howard defeated last year's runner-up, Walsh, 13-6. Walsh seemed confident before the game, but in the first half both defenses played tough. 
Each team's defense came up with an interception and each offense scored once, ending the half in a 6-6 deadlock. The de­fensive battle continued into the second half, but with five minutes to go, Howard scored a touchdown and an extra point to go on top, 13-6. Walsh then took over and had a chance to score, but the Howard defense held tight. 
Howard was elated by the victory, and pleased with their performance, while Walsh was predictably upset. 
"It won't happen again," promised disappointed Walsh captain Molly McShane, "We're not losing." 
BADIN 28 
PANGBORN 0 

In another fierce South Quad rivalry, Badin took on Pangborn. From the outset it was clear that Pangborn was no match for the high-spirited, high-scoring Badin team. Badin scored its first touch­down in less than a minute, and dominated the rest of the game both offensively and de­fensively, shutting out Pang­born, 28-0. 
Badin running backs Aurelie Gallagher and Tina Fuoco both put on stellar performances, as Gallagher scored the first two also impressive. On one excit­ing play, senior quarterback Shari Shepard hit star receiver Jill Satanek with a 50-yard spi­ral for Badin's third touch­down. 
In addition to the many offen­sive highlights, the game ended on a spectacular interception by Badin's Shelly Dillenburger. In spite of their crushing defeat, the Pangborn squad 

remains optimistic. 

"I think we have a lot of tal­ent," noted sophomore Trish Sorensen, "But I think we need to work hard to pull together as a team." 
BREEN-PHILLIPS 37 LYONS 35 In the final game, Lyons 
met North Quad foe Breen­Phillips. The game was quite an offensive exhibition, with each team trading touchdowns on each possession. Yet Lyons held a slight edge at the half, 20-18. First half highlights in­cluded two touchdown runs by 
B.P. 
senior Michele Hurst, and an amazing reverse by Lyons senior Melissa Cook. 

In the second half the back­and-forth scoring continued. Neither defense could hold the other team back. With two minutes left in the game, B.P. scored the final touchdown, putting them in the lead, 37-35. Lyons then drove down to the 

B.P. 
five-yard line. Luckily for the tiring B.P. defense, the clock ran out on Lyons. 


Even after losing the close contest, Lyons captain Wendy Loftus felt confident in her team's ability to come back. 
"It was a great offensive game, and we know what we need to work on," said the se­nior running back, who had two touchdowns of her own. "We'll be okay."" 
BENGAL BOUTS NOVICE TRAINING 
Begins Monday, September 27 
Meet just inside Gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. at 4:00pm for an informational meeting 

IN CONCERT 
September 24, 1993 Stepan Center Bpm Students $8 General $15 
Tickets available at the Info. Desk at LaFortune 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

,-----------~-------~--­
Friday, September 24, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS 
Volleyball to face big tasks at Invitational 

By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sporrs Writer 
Following a rough week of practice that saw at least one team member out each day due to sickness, the 14th ranked Notre Dame volleyball team looks to regroup against a diffi­cult slate of opponents at this weekend's Golden Dome Invitational. 
Following last weekend's sweep of the Shamrock Invitational, the Irish hope to continue their winning ways against ranked teams, but will face an arduous task in third­ranked Nebraska, coming in at 9-0. However, the Irish cannet look past their first two match­es, as both Santa Clara and South West Missouri State are dangerous squads. 
The Broncos of Santa Clara, who face the Irish Friday night at 7:30, enter the tournament with a deceiving 5-4 record, having lost close matches against top ten teams, including a 5-game decision to perennial power USC. Santa Clara re­turns five starters from last year's NCAA tournament team. 
"They have some very domi­nant players," noted Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "Lia Young is comparable to our own Nicole Coates, an under· sized but very dynamic and athletic player. Outside hitter Holly Racine is also a good player." Young leads the team with 111 kills, followed closely by Racine's 103. 
Next up for Notre Dame will be the South West Missouri State, off to an impressive 9-1 start. Following on the heals of last year's third place finish in 

• 

t-~ A
~OMEQr \ 
,&QUN'93 •
UNIVEQSITY Of NOTRE DAME 3 & 6 MILE RUNS AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2,10:00 AM AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD lJ'o®IXJOIRlrn IJ'@ t!.\fbfb ~IM O®IXJI:§OO® OOI:§@O®IJ'l§OO OIM t!.\lill~t!.\00©1:§ t!.\IJ' OOI:§©®I?@OOrn
• 
$~.®® O:M t!.\lill~t!.\IN©l§ ~ $®.®:0 lillt!.\W @rF !Flt!.\©1:§
•
• ®IJ'l\D@~OOIJ' t!.\!M@ ®ll't!.\rFrF @0~0®0@00®
•
• FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 631-6100 
• 
the NIVC, the Bears are led by hitters Tina Noelke and Amy Russell, who average 3.5 and 
3.2 kills per game respectively . 
.SW Missouri is also dangerous against ranked opponents, owning a win over No. 21 Florida State this year. 
The featured match for Notre Dame will be Saturday night's 
7:30 finale against No. 3 Nebraska, as the Irish try to keep alive their success against ranked opponents, hoping for an upset that would rank as the program's most impressive win. 
However, achieving this vic­tory will not be easy. "The first thing spectators will notice is how big their team is," com­mented a concerned Brown. "Their strength is blocking and playing at the net, so we have to pass very well and play good defense to keep them off-bal­ance." 
The Huskers enter with a streak of four wins against ranked opponents this season, and are led by sophomore hit­ter Allison Weston (.400 hitting percentage and 4.1 kills per game) and senior setter and all­America candidate Nikki Stricker: who has amassed 2,664 assists over her career. 
As for the Irish, the recent ill­ness that has swept through the team will lead to some strategic changes this weekend. 
"We have to be smart with our substitutions, because I don't think our starters will be physically strong enough to play three full matches," noted Brown. "Fatigue will be a fac­tor because of the sickness." 
However, Notre Dame will be in a good position to use a line­up of ten or more players. "With people having missed time this week, we've been able to work with some players who might not normally have gotten the attention, so they'll be ready to step in and help out." 
-Against such a powerful field, the Irish will need great per­formances from every player in order to repeat last weekend's sweep. 
WE'D BE SCARED TOO! 
HAPPY 21ST LAURA MURRAY 
LOVE, 

ANN, KATHY, MEGAN AND ERIN 

Notre Dame Invitational. wbich will feature some of the nation's top cross~cc:>un' 
~J¢ ·:.::~;:.:··· 
··· Ot 
the will be senior cap• • tain Laura Guyet; juniors Emily Husted and Maureen Kelly.; ... and sop · ·· Kristen Dudas. 
rish will 


;ul/#4~
~0

POANO CONCER'' 'HE SUMMER SHOW 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 + 7:30PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Ma,.Ys College 
$1 6, $11 non-Saint Mal)''s students, and $10 Saint Mary's students at Saint Mal)''s College Box Office. Charge By Phone 219-284-4626. 
Look for George's latest album, SUMMER, at your favorite music store. 
Please join us in support of the Cenlerfor the Homeless by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert. 


. ~ . A DANCING CAT PRODUCTION .· 
""'""'"""------------~·---------~ ------­
Saint Mary's soccer withstands late Wheaton rally 
By lAURA NOWICKI Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team outlasted the ninth ranked Wheaton College Crusaders yesterday to capture a 4-3 vic­tory at home. 
The Belles played a strong first half , pulling ahead by a score of 3-0. 
The first goal was attained six minutes into the first half by 
unassisted  senior,  Jenny  
Kaplan.  
Jenny  Ferry  and  Tiffany  

Raczynski also each con­tributed a goal in the first half to aid the Belles cause. Ferry and Raczynski were assisted by senior Mandy Eiler and senior co-captain Megan Dalsaso. 
Dalsaso, who was disappoint­ed with the Belles overall per­formance commented that "the first half we capitalized on every opportunity". 
"The first half was good," said senior co-captain Molly O'Connell. " We started out well." 
"I was extremely pleased with the first half," said Saint Mary's coach Tom Van Meter. " I liked our execution and defense". 
A determined Wheaton team invaded a suddenly sluggish Belles team with two goals in the second half. 
"Wheaton came at us. We just stood around and watched them," 
VanMeter said. "In the sec­ond half we went 180 degrees in the other direction." 
Late in the second half, the Belles answered the Wheaton run with a goal scored by 
Ex-Alabama player ignites 
NCAA probe 

Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA 

The NCAA has informed the University of Alabama that it will conduct an inquiry into allegations that· Gene Jelks received illegal benefits to play football for the Crimson Tide. 
In a letter received Thursday by university president E. Roger Sayers. the NCAA said it would launch an inquiry into the school's football program. 
David Berst, assistant executive director for enforcement, wrote that his staff has been reviewing information "regarding pos­sible violations of NCAA leg­islation that were alleged in a series of newspaper arti­cles in November 1992" about Jelks' charges that he was paid to play for Alabama. 
"Based upon the available information, the enforce­ment staff believes that a formal review of this infor­mation is warranted," Berst said. 
"Given the allegations· made by Gene Jelks and the attention they have received, it is not surprising that the NCAA has responded with a preliminary inquiry," Sayers said in a statement. "We have full confidence in the NCAA process, and obvious­ly we have, and will, cooper­ate fully, as we advised the NCAA by letter today." 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Senior Megan Dalsasso led the Belles to a 4-3 win over Wheaton College yesterday. 
Dalsaso and assisted by Eiler. did a nice job. She had two 
Wheaton then scored the final great saves in the second half." This Week in Notre Dame Sportsgoal of the game to make the "Jenny Kaplan had an out­score 4-3. standing game. She kept going 
'3olden Dome Weekend
to the ball and held her compo­
Coach VanMeter, who was  sure  under  pressure,"  
disappointed with the Belles second half performance said,  VanMeter added.  Friday  9/24  
"We have to learn to play two  The Belles will take on John  Women's SoccP.r vs. NC State  
halves together".  Carroll University  on  their  5:00 pm  Alumni Field  
On a positive note, VanMeter  home field tomorrow at 1 p.m..  Women's Volieyball vs. Santa Clara  
added that he felt "Ann Kuehne  7:30 pm  JACC Arena  
Men's Soccer vs. Indiana  

7:30pm Alumni Field 
6[e's !]Jislro & ~ 
Saturday 9/25 
P-= · 

5ta o~~~ 
Women's Volleyball vs. SW Missouri ~ 
~~ 

11:00 am JACC Arena ~. ......,~­
()~Q, Fine dining at moderate prices Q o 
and again vs. Nebraska ~~ ~ 
Gourmet sandwiches • pastries • coffee ~ 
7:30 pm JACC Arena ~ 
Theatre Works Playhouse -upstairs 
Sunday 9/26 · "~ 
Women's Soccer vs. Southern Methodist 2:30pm Alumni Field 
at the Bistro 
Ask about catering 257-0400 
HUNGRY? 

We give you enough to feed the whole team!! Use your Student Savings Card for 10°/o off any menu item!! Entrees start /~ at $3.95!! 
The Works Bar and Grill 501 N. Niles Ave.
w~·.~:~s 
237-9757
11,\H &{;1~11.1. 


_, ___ ~-­
---~----------­
Friday, September 24, 1993 page 23 
TODAY 


JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

And 'Profe~r r+a(dWic k is Qu_t­
of-the chute! ... HE·Jl mve to nf:lfar.d e-therize that Danaus p/Exippu s in fess -fhah fen 5ecorxis ifne hJ(Jf'S fa Win .1 
BILL WATTERSON 
I 5\)PI'OSE. T\-\t.'l t\GU~£ IF '(01.) D~l \(NOW ~~~~~ 1'\()NT\-\ IT \S, '(<J\J'RE. N<JT T\-\E TWE. W\-\0'\) 
WEI>..R P-.. W"-\CI-\. 

Entomological rodeos 
OF INTEREST 
45 Cure-all 56 Pet 47 Hide-hair sa Greek peak 49 Lachrymal drop 59 Headliner 
51 Like a fruitcake 60 Sec. of 53 Artist-author 
Agriculture

Silverstein 63 Finial
54 Dust-up 55 Balzac's "Le 64 Egyptian god of -Goriot" music 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-DINING HALL 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
M~ W(I.K\-\ TELLS 
TilE T\tv\'t: , TilE 
Dt-.'1, MD TI-lE Dt\Tt: . 
l .> ,,
\~ 'ft~ 
1.·'~-> . 
... <::'\-\~ .. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Loose garment Mistake Vaunt 
4The­Chancellor (Bismarck) 
5 Soft, to Solti 6 Douglas Hyde's land 7 Artist who founded the naturalistic school 9 St. Clare and Tanguay 
!O Upper crust 
!1 Overbearing 
!3 Angers 
!&Neat 
!7 Ecclesiastical traffickers 
~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+-~~ .:;:+:~~ 
!-=-+~~ -=+-~~ .;..:+::-+=-+=-~ 
32 Do the job of a 48 Across 35 Crockett quarry 
36Abbie's companion in comics 38Wallaroo 39 Computer gate 40 Irish patriot 41 Half pint 42 Danish-
American reformer 44 Unvalued, as a stock 45 "It tolls for 
~":Donne 
46 Oliver's boss 46 Lawgiver so Budget Director 
Panetta 52Graf­

You BLAME ME FoR 
Youfl.. LAGK OF 50GIA'L 
SKILLS. Tl-lAT'S wHY 
I LE. PT YoV ALONE · FOR AWHILE .50, YO'J 
COULD C.f:T SOME DATES. T FELT t<.INDit SORRY 
FOR YOU. 

\\ DOES~'\ \t:LL W\.lt\T 
t-1\0N\1-1 IT I'S, T\-\<J\JGI-\. I NEE\) {1. Wf\KI-\ 
Tl-\fi.T 18.l.S T\-\1:. 
t-1\oNn\ 
53 Supports for 
jockeys' feet 57 Came up 61 Venerable 

62 Followers of 17 Across 
65 Best or Ferber 66 Bilge 67 Relative of 
P.D.Q. 68"Hiand-," comic strip 69 Himalayan beings 70 Author Joyce 
DOWN 
1 Staple of Asia 2 Evangelist Roberts 3 Soprano Lucrezia­4 Kinship on 

mother's side 5 Browner's org. 6 Fit out for sailing 7 East Indian 
cereal grass a-years (aged) 9 Chanticleer 
rules it 10 Direct route 11 Milieu of 29 

Down 12 Flaherty's "Man 
of-" 13 Notable deed 18 Pitcher Ruhle 22 Source of metal 24 German for 14 
Across 25 Yellowish pink 27 Head covering 28 Ancient Asia 
Minor region 
29 A leader of modernism in art 
30 Argentine grassland 31 Cooks clams, in 
away 33 Vinegar vessel 34 Pith helmet 37 Hone a razor 43 High chains 

miDINT UNION lOAD 

Tix at LaFortune Info Desk 

page 24 Friday, September 24, 1993 
Nation's best to test Notre Dame soccer teams 
Men hope to Wolfpack wor­handle Hoosiers ries women 
,~,,·
ff"\',~ 
By MIKE NORBUT ft/:#: .,4 By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Wri1er Assis1am Sports Edi1or 
~,;/14f$; f ;; 
~·· '* 

The collision course has been The Notre Dame women's 
Of~ • ~ :~/ 
set. soccer team will put its eleven
•~~<A'~-"~
The Notre Dame men's soc­game winning streak on the cer team, boasting a three­line this evening at Alumni game winning streak, will play ,y'" Stadium against the sixth host tonight to No. 3 Indiana ranked Wolfpack of North University at 7:30 on Alumni Carolina State. Field. 
"We have to stop looking at Rosella Guerrero scored a Indiana with awe," said Irish hat trick in last season's coach Mike Berticelli. "Our match-up as the Irish fell to players have to realize that the Wolfpack, 4-3. they can play with the best After last week's 1-0 victory teams in the nation." over then fifth-ranked William 
The Irish, 4-2 on the season & Mary, the Irish climbed four and 2-1 in the Midwestern spots in the Intercollegiate Collegiate Conference, will en­Soccer Association of America ter tonight's game brimming national rankings to the num­with confidence following two ber three spot. This marked victories over Michigan State the highest ranking in the his­and Evansville last weekend. tory of the program and thrust 
Sunday's victory over the the Irish into national promi­Purple Aces marked the second nence. shutout of the season for junior 
goalie Bert Bader, who was Proving that it deserves the supported defensively by Chris ranking will by no means be an Dean and Dane Whitley. easy task for the squad. In ad­
The Hoosiers improved their dition to the Wolfpack the Irish record to 5-l last weekend also face off this season with with two tireless victories of number one North Carolina, their own against Akron and ninth ranked Duke and 13th­St. Louis. The team was led ranked Stanford. offensively by midfielder Brian For now, though, the team is Maisonneuve, who recorded just taking it one game at a four goals and two assists in time. the two games, earning him N. C. State is likely the best Big Ten Player of the Week team to face ·the Irish so far 
The Observer/Dave Hungeling Notre Dame sophomore forward Rosella Guerrero battles a Wiliam and Mary defender for the ball. 
see MEN/ page 16 

Stakes high at Fallon Invitational 

By PHIL LANGER there each day now. His lead­Spom Wriler ership will be an invaluable asset to the team." 
The stakes are high and the Notre Dame's Ryan Simme, competition promises to be the highest-ranked freshman in fierce as Notre Dame plays host the country at No. 38, hopes to to the seventh annual Tom make his mark in his first colle­Fallon Invitational at the giate competition. Courtney Tennis Center this weekend. "I am both nervous and ex­
Some of the premier colle­cited about playing in my first giate tennis talent in the coun­college tournament," said try will be battling it out here Simme, a native of Spring. at Notre Dame in one of the na­Texas. "Yet even though I feel I tion's top individual tourna­have something to prove being ments. ranked as high as I am, I'm not 
"We are really excited about as concerned about the results the strength and diversity of as I am with playing my best." this year's field," stated Irish Other pre-tournament fa­head coach Bob Bayliss. "This vorites include 50th-ranked has become one of the out­Mashishka Washington, broth­standing fall events in the er of professional star Mali Vai country." Washington, and No. 37 Dan 
Bringing their hopes and Brakus, who are respectively dreams of taking home the title defending the B and A flights of are 20 college teams from the tournament. nearly every major conference The rest of this year's Irish in the country. An early Irish team participating this week­favorite is fifth-year senior and end are seniors Tad Eckert. team leader Andy Zurcher, who Eoin Beirne, Allan Lopez, Todd is ranked 19th nationally and is Wilson, and Tom North, junior playing in his first competitive Horst Dziura, sophomores match since breaking his wrist Jason Pun, Mike Sprouse, last Christmas. Marco Magnano, John Jay 
"Andy is still a bit rusty. This O'Brien, Brian Harris, and 
Photo courtesy of N D Sports Information is his nr•st competition since Andy Chmura, and freshmen Fifth year senior Andy Zurcher, last November," noted Bayliss, Jaime Viqueira and Ron is the top player at this week­"But it is great to see him out Mencias. 
end's Tom Fallon Invitational. 


SMC Soccer The Belles win their home opener 4-3 over Wheaton College. 
see page 22 
Inside SPORTS 

Cross Country 

see WOMEN I page 19 
MeWilliams returns to spark Irish runners 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Spans Wri1er 

The Notre Dame men's cross country team looks to rebound from their opening loss to Georgetown as they host the 
National Catholic Invitational at 5:00 this afternoon at the B u r k e Memorial G o 1 f Course. 


The Irish Mike McWilliams 
will play host to 21 other Catholic colleges and uni­versities at the Invitational, and are looking to garner a first­place finish for the second year in a row and for the fifth time in the last six years. 
The talented Irish team will receive an emotional and phys­ical boost from the return of senior captain and All­American Mike McWilliams, who was unable to finish the race against Georgetown due to flu symptoms which had plagued him all week. Now McWilliams is ready to run again, and the Irish will need his leadership, as well as a strong team effort, in order to prevail over the rest of the tal­ented field. 
DePaul, Holy Cross, Duquesne, LaSalle, Marquette, and Canisius are just a few of the talented teams who will lace up against the Irish this afternoon. 
According to head coach Joe Piane, the Irish's main compe­tition will come from LaSalle, who fields a team comprised of six returning starters and a group of top recruits. Canisius, a lesser-known team from New York, also aroused concern from Piane. 
Despite this concern, both Piane and his team appear to be looking for nothing less than a win. The team has run well in practice, and is ready to re­bound from their opening loss 
see INVITE I page 16 

After a rough week of the Irish women a heavy 
Sarah Riley helps make 
practice, Christy Peters favorite at the National 
and the Irish are ready Catholic Invitational. 
for the Golden Dome Invitational. see page 21 
see page 21 
Volleyball 





