The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 129 TUESDAY, APRIL 20, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Standoff over: fire destroys Waco cult compound 
Fate of Koresh and followers unknown 
WACO, Texas (AP) -The compound where cult leader David Koresh and 95 followers holed up for 51 days burned to the ground today after FBI agents in an armored vehicle smashed the buildings and pumped in tear gas. The Justice Department said cult members set the fire. 
Eight members of the Branch Davidian cult came out, federal officials said. The fate of the group's leader and the other 87 wasn't immediately known. Twenty-five children were believed to have been in­side. 
Koresh had warned the FBI in a letter last week 
that agents would be "devoured by fire" if they tried 
to harm him. 
The group had built some underground spaces beneath the complex but didn't have a tunnel system that would have allowed people to survive the fire, said Jack Killorin, a spokesman in Washington for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. 
"It's a bad end and one of the ends we feared from 
the beginning," Killorin said. "Obviously suicide was a 
concern all along but the method was different, 
unexpected." 
In a briefing shortly before the fire started, FBI spokesman Bob Ricks had said authorities believed the tear-gassing was the best way to avert a possible mass suicide, because it would "cause confusion inside the compound." 
Nearly 40 people left the compound before today, 
and Ricks said: "We have continually quizzed those 
coming out. And they, as a general rule, (said) that 
suicide -they believe -is not a possibility." 
The fire began moments after an armored vehicle 
rammed one of the buildings as part of an assault 
that began six hours earlier. 
At dawn, FBI agents in an armored vehicle, flying 
an American flag and with a battering ram attached, 
had begun ripping holes in the walls of the compound 
and pumping in tear gas. Agents were met by heavy 
gunfire but no injuries were reported. 
The ramming stopped for a time. The armored 
vehicle resumed the assault shortly after 9 a.m. and 
again at about noon. 
Then smoke began pouring out of several second­
floor windows. Within minutes, the wooden 
compound was engulfed in flames, fed by high winds. 
Huge clouds of smoke rose from the complex of inter­
locking buildings, and a four-story watchtower 
collapsed. 
Eight people were in custody, two injured critically, 
one seriously and three with minor injuries, said 
Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern. 
One of the eight told authorities that people inside 
the compound had set the blazes, Stern said. The 
see WACO I page 4 
Death in Waco 

Only a few survived the devastating fire Monday that ended a 51-day standoff at the Branch Davidian compound outside Waco. Texas. There were believed to be at least 17 children under age 10 among the 95 followers holed up with David Koresh, who claimed to be Jesus Christ. 
Monday, Apri/19
Sunday,Feb.28 I 
•About 
100 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Fireanns agents move in on compound. Agun battle begins. 

•Four 
agents are killed and 15 wounded In the 45-mlnute battle. Branch Davidian leader David Koresh, also known as Vernon Howell, later says he and others were wounded and his 2-year-old daughter killed. 


Tuesday, March 2 
•Koresh, In a 58·mlnute taped sermon broadcast on radio and TV. says he will surrender, but doesn1. 
Sunday, March 21 
•In biggest exodus, seven cuHists leave compound. 
Monday, March 22 
~uthorities blast compound with chants of libetan monks. 
Wednesday, March 24 
•Houston man described as a "religious fanatic, • sneaks into compound. 
Friday, March 26 
oCalifomia man sneaks into compound. 
March 27-Apri/18 
o()n-and-off n!lg(ltiations between Koresh and FBI. 
The 

6:04a.m.: FBI agents met by heavy gunfire as armored vehicle begins to punch holes in walls then pump "nonpyrotechnic' tear gas-delivered by spray, not an explosive device-Into buildings. 
M728 combat engineering 
vehicle 
Teargas <forms a cloud ofairborne powder when sprayed -immediaf6/y slings the skin, eyes, nose and throat causing redness of the skin, 18ars, running nose. covghing and tightnesa of chesl. oeffects last five to ten minutes ois potent for thirty days undar normal weather conditions 
Gas masks 

Effective for a Hmited time, many cult members wero believed to have had them. 
David Koresh's living 
quarters with satellite 
dish. FBI had cut 
electricity to the 
compound. 
Battery-operated 
radio and telephones 
were cultists only link 
with the outside. 
compound 
D~agramis 
schematJc based on preliminary reports. 
12:3Bp.m.: 
Aretrucks arrive at compound. 

Panel discusses issue of 'womanism ' 
By MARK KREJCI News Writer 
The unique experience that African American women share created the need for womanism, according to pan­elists at a discussion presented by the Feminist Forum and Women United for Justice and Peace entitled, "A Different Agenda: Feminism and Wom­anism." 
Womanism comes from the black women's experience, said Karen Harris, a Notre Dame junior. 
"One critique of feminism from a womanist perspective is that feminism tends to just ad­dress white middle class women's concerns...Feminism assumes a 'universal feminism' which just doesn't exist," she said. 
"Womanism begins as a con­versation among women within the African American commu­nity...it is a celebration of who we are," said visiting professor of theology Rev. Joy Browne. 
"No one except you can ar­ticulate your own experience," she said, "womanism respects the solidarity of women within the black community." 
In answer to the need for representation of other ethnic groups within the feminist movement, Browne said that women of all ethnic groups, in­cluding Hispanics, Asians, and Native Americans, should ar­ticulate their own unique expe­riences. 
Womanism addresses black women's experience, but it also encourages all groups of women to discuss their experi­ence, according to Browne. 
Tonya Callahan, president of Feminist Forum and a sopho­more at Notre Dame, said there is a great need to address feminism at Notre Dame. She said that she sensed a great contrast when she came to Notre Dame. 
"I grew up with feminism in my hometown in Massachus­setts... and I felt there was a need for this meeting," Calla­han said. 
All of the panelists agreed 
that feminism is difficult to de­fine. 
"Feminism is a struggle to define what the problems for different groups of women are within culture and in time. Feminism is an analysis of women's experience within culture working for progressive change," said Gloria Jean Mas­ciarotte, professor of English at Notre Dame. 
"Feminism is a position which always struggles to analyze women's position. It is not a set label or identity, said Masciarotte. 
Ava Collins, Director of Gen­der Studies at Notre Dame, said, "Defining feminism is like asking what the state of philos­ophy is. It is almost impossible to characterize it in one or two sentences because it is so di­verse." 
The problem with feminism for womanism is that it is often prescriptive, said Browne. "Feminism prescribes instead of consults," she said. 
She added that feminism 
see FORUM I page 4 

12:15 p.m.: Flames and smoke seen in windows just above the main entrance. Fire spread quickly due to high winds. Justice Department says cuH members set the fire. 
Tear gas barrage reflected sudden change of tactics 
(AP)-The FBI said its patience hadn't run thin. But the bureau's decision to assault a Texas religious cult with tear gas and a battering ram -an assault that ended in fiery catastrophe -reflected at least an admission that 51 days of negotiations had failed. 
It had been a long and frustrating road for the federal government from a botched firearms raid on Feb. 28 to Monday's horrifying blaze at the Branch Davidian compound near.Waco. 
In the intervening weeks, the FBI tried every negotiating tactic in its quiver. It struck deals that were broken; it pleaded and argued and threatened; it shined bright lights and played loud music. 
All for nought. 
Among the many questions facing the government now is why the tactics were suddenly changed from negotiation and psychological warfare to aggressive, physical confrontation. 
"Today's action is not an indication that our patience has run out," FBI spokesman Bob Ricks insisted at a briefing Monday morning. "The action taken today, was, we believe, the next logical step in a series of actions to bring this episode to a conclusion." 
Ricks said that after the FBI had sent an armored combat vehicle to ram holes and blow tear gas into the cluster of buildings where David Koresh was hunkered down with nearly 100 fdllowers. 
Not long after he spoke, fire engulfed and destroyed the compound. The FBI accused cultists of starting the blaze. 
Robert Louden, a veteran hostage negotiator who teaches at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, said the decision to use physical force against the Branch Davidians seemed logical. 
"The overall strategy in these 
see FBI I page 4 

Student Senate approves fees for campus clubs 
By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
Last night the Student Senate unanimously approved the Club Coordination Council's (CCC) 1993-94 student activity fee al­locations for the more than 230 campus clubs. 
According to council member Frank McGehee, the council met with every club president on campus to discuss projects for next year. 
"We've been working dili­gently for the last four weeks to allocate $81 ,000," McGehee said. 
After meeting with club presidents, the ten CCC mem­bers decided how much money to allocate to each group. 
In other business, Scott Keegel from Adworks presented the services and goals of the student-run venture, in order to clarify any misconceptions about their purpose. According to Keegel, their foremost goal is not only to advertise. 
"The people that work in Ad­works gain valuable experience. The service comes to those people, and that proves to be very valuable to employers," said Keegel. 
Kristie Shafer of the Student Business Board explained the accounts for March of Adworks and the other two student-run businesses, Irish Gardens and ND Video. Adworks made a profit of nearly $25, and Irish Gardens made over $300. ND Video lost nearly $370 last month, due in part to the loss of business from being closed over spring break. 
"They also purchased a lot of movies last month," said Shafer. 
Shafer also asked for Senate approval of the 1993-94 student mangers for Irish Gardens and ND Video. Junior Ana DeBevoise was unanimously approved to be manager of Irish Gardens, and junior Jay Parsons was also unanimously approved to 
see SENATE I page 4 

--~-----------------~-----------~--------~ 
page 2 Tuesday, Apri 20, 1993
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Prejudice rears its ugly head at Heartland 

I have seen the enemies, and they wore cowboy boots. 
Yes, my friends, I hate to break it to you, but western line dancing is yet 


another communist plot designed to make us all think alike. It is a Becky Barnes marketing ploy by the Assistant News manufacturers of denim, Editor 
those tassel-fringe things.________ and rhinestones. 
I know this because I have been to Heartland. I have seen them in their jeans that fit so snugly across their rears while flaring gently to drape over their designer stitched boots. I have seen the couple in the matching black and white cow­print skirt and shirt. And I have noticed that they take themselves seriously-very seriously. 
I tried to keep an open mind. I attempted their ritual dances, but I was the one stepping on their feet when they shuffied forward as I shuffied back. While I learned the intricacies o the cross step, they trampled me with their 180­degree turn and three stomps. It was pretty 
easy to see which one of these kids didn't belong here. 
And I was scared. My rugby had no western embroidery, and my Doc Martens did not pass as cowboy boots. l couldn't tell the difference between the Achy-Breaky Heart dance and the Cotton-Eyed Joe (should have taken up that video offer). I did not look like these people, I did not dance like these people and I did not like these people. 
They didn't like me either. When a couple returned from the dance floor, the woman glared at me demanding "that's my chair." Never mind that four seats stood empty beside me; I should have realized these chairs were occupied because her husband's custom darts lay on the table. Twirling couples shoved me out of their way as they two-stepped past me. Bartenders ignored me. Would they have been so rude if it was not so obvious I didn't belong there? 
Is it any less wrong (or more stupid) to hate someone because of the music they listen to than to hate them for the color of their skin, their sexual preference, their gender, their class and everything else we find to criticize? 
Am I making this into a bigger issue than it really is? Probably. Western dancing doesn't have quite the impact as ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, riots in Los Angeles and the question o homosexuals in the military. But for one of the first times in my life I felt like a minority, and l felt threatened. 
And it's an amazing thing what fear can do. I do not like these people. I don't want to like these people. I don't care what they do for a living or whether they prefer Burger King or McDonald's. I've always considered mysel unprejudiced and was proud of it. And what can I say for myself today? 
Why did Hosa Parks ever sit down on that bus? Why did James Meredith even want to attend the University of Mississippi? What soldier would want to admit he is gay, what sailor that she is a lesbian? Because l don't want to go back to Heartland. I have seen the enemy, and I fear it is me. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
Sports News Brian Kubicki 
NATIONAL Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 20. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1993Accu-Weather,lnc. 
Rome 63 41 Seattle 52 37
Pressure 


South Bend 52 35 Tokyo 68 57
H L 
Washington D.C. 74 51

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Rally hopes to end ban on whaling 

•TOKYO -About 1,000 demonstrators carrying whale­shaped balloons marched Monday in Tokyo to press for an end to a ban on commercial whaling, as the International Whaling Commission began its annual meeting. Whale researchers from six nations gathered in Japan's ancient capital of Kyoto to discuss formulas for calculating possible catches in the Antarctic, commission officials said. In Tokyo, whalers, whale-meat restaurant owners and fishing industry workers staged a march to call for an end to the IWC's moratorium on commercial whaling. The IWC's scientific committee has previously estimated that the number of minke whales, a smaller variety, has risen to 760,000, prompting Japanese whalers to demand an end to the ban. 
NATIONAL 
State officials shut down blood bank 

•SPOKANE, Wash. -A blood bank serving 25 hospitals in eastern Washington and northern Idaho was shut down by state officials after federal authorities uncovered alleged shortcomings in AIDS protection procedures. No tainted blood went to hospitals and there was plenty available Monday, officials said. Last week, the 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration halted its deliveries to hospitals in northern Idaho, alleged violations involving reinstatement of four donors who initially tested positive for the AIDS virus. A second screening showed the first test results were false. Based on the federal findings, the state Department of Health on Friday ordered the Inland Northwest Blood Center to stop collecting and distributing blood, said Mimi Nickerson-Johns, a department spokeswoman. 
OF INTEREST 

•Graduate 
Student Applications for the Center for the Homeless Fall Internship Program are available at the Center for Social Concerns . The applications dead­line has been extended to April 23, and can be returned to the esc. 

•Engineering 
Juniors completing resumes for Resume Books are encouraged to attend a Resume Lab today from 3:30 to 5 p.m. in 228 DeBartolo. Assistance offered in both format and content. Please apply by calling the College of Engineering office at 1-5530. Juniors in any major are welcome to attend. Presented by Career and Placement Services. 




Couple pleads guilty to child neglect 
•GENEVA, Ill. -The couple accused of leaving their two young children alone at home while they went on a vacation to Mexico agreed to plead guilty Monday to contributing to the neglect of a child. It wasn't immediately clear if David and Sharon Schoo would regain custody of their daughters, Nicole, 10, and Diana, 4, who have been in foster care. Under the plea agreement, the Schoos will each be sentenced to two years of probation and will perform 200 hours of community service, Assistant State's Attorney John Barsanti said in Kane County Circuit Court. The couple thus avoided being tried on 64 counts, including neglect of children, endangering the life of a child, aggravated battery, abandonment. cruelty to children and unlawful possession of marijuana. 
Jackie Kennedy Onassis interviewed 
•NEW 
YORK -It was Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis' first interview in three decades but there was a catch ­the former first lady spoke only about her career in publishing. Onassis, 63, granted the interview to Publishers Weekly, a trade publication, and talked at length about her 15 years as an editor at Doubleday. She allowed no tape recorder or camera, limited ques­tions to her professional life and insisted she be allowed to approve her quotes, according to the April 19 Publishers Weekly. She edits about 12 books a year and works three days a week in a small, windowless office. Onassis edited Bill Moyers' "Healing and the Mind," currently a bestseller, and has edited other bestsellers including Michael Jackson's autobiography, "Moonwalk." 

•The 
Weight Watchers at Work 10 week session begins April 27. Call Peggy Peterson. Department of Human Hesources, 1-5389, to register. 

•The 
1993 Dome will be distributed to all under­classmen today through Friday from 12 to 5 p.m. in room 108 LaFortune Student Center. Student IDs must be pre­sented. 

•1993 
graduates, Career and Placement Services will help people in their search for roommates after graduation. Add your name to the listings and check back for additions and responses. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
FORECAST Cloudy and cooler today with a 70 percent chance of rain. High in the lower 50s. Mostly cloudy Wednesday with highs in the upper 40s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  41  38  
Atlanta  74  68  
Bogota  68  4t  
Cairo  86  72  
Chicago  49  42  
Cleveland  55  42  
Dallas  84  67  
Detroit  54  34  
Indianapolis  50  35  
Jerusalem  82  63  
London  64  52  
Los Angeles  75  67  
Madrid  81  45  
Minneapolis  48  33  
Moscow  50  38  
Nashville  73  58  
New York  55  39  
Paris  66  52  
Philadelphia  65  52  

Emily Hage Bevin Kovalik Graphics Chris Mullins Production Kira Hutchinson Lab Tech Mike Scrudato Brian M. McDonough 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING April 19 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 243,458,700 -.72 to 247.02 S&P COMPOSITE 

-1.48 to 447.46 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
·11.62 to 3466.99
UNCHANGED 552 

GOLD 
+$1.30 to $340.30/oz 
SILVER 
-$.013 to $3.910/oz 

On this day in history: 
• 
In 1902: Scientists Marie and Pierre Curie isolated the ra­dioactive element radium. 

• 
In 1836: The territory of Wisconsin was established by Congress. 

• 
In 1971: The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the use of busing to achieve racial desegregation in schools. 

• 
In 1972: The manned lunar module of Apollo 16 landed on the moon. 

• 
In 1983: President Reagan signed a $165 billion Social Security rescue plan designed to prevent bankruptcy of the trust fund for the elderly. 



~~----------------------~ ~-----..-------~-~~-----~ -----~ 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! Orders may now be placed for your class rings at: The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE " on the campus "  
Orders may be placed in the ring office from Tuesday, April 20th -Friday, May 7th 9 a.m. -4:30p.m.  

Tuesday, April 30, 1993 
BOG prepares for "Celebrating Community" 
Special to The Observer 
The Board of Governance (BOG) discussed future events at the last meeting yesterday. according to Saint Mary's Stu­dent Body President, MaryBeth Wilkinson. 
BOG discussed one upcoming event, Celebrating Community, which will take place April 25­April 26, Wilkinson said. This will include a workshop with alumnae and seniors-;-she said. 
"The highlight of the program will be the Commissioning Ceremony at the Church of Loretto at 7 p.m.,"said Wilkin­son. 
At the ceremony, new mem­bers of BOG, Student Activities Board (SAB), Student Academic Council (SAC) and Resident Hall Association (RHA) members will be commissioned by their 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON lAWAND GOVERNMENT PRESENTS PROFESSOR RUSSEll HnTINGER CAniOUC UNIVERSITY OF AMERICA ON "POUTICS AND RIGHTS IN CASEY 
Y. PlANNED PARENniOOD" niURSDAY, APRIL 22 12:00NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAWSCHOOL COURTROOM 
past officers. 
BOG created the new position of NASCCU representative, ac­cording to Wilkinson. 
Melissa Whelan will serve as the new representative for next year's board, Wilkinson said. 
"Before. we had Martha Mar­zolf acting in a dual position but with Martha graduating, we created this position and Whe­lan will keep Saint Mary's right in the group," said Wilkinson. 
In other business. there was a small amount of spending set aside for a future purchase, Wilkinson said. 
With the organization's fund­ing BOG plans to match the purchase of two stairmasters for Saint Mary's. 
"Hopefully, by the fall, we will have four stairmasters," she said. 
The Observer 
The Observer/ Brian McDonough 
Curtain call 

Members of Notre Dame Communication and Theatre, Chris Dellicarpini, Mike O'Hara, Kathy Slover and Stacey Stewart, practice during the dress rehearsal for their performance of Shakespeare's, "Julius Caesar." The performance will debut Wednesday at 8:1 0 p.m., and tickets are available for $7 at the LaFortune Student Center Information Desk. 

Polls show Italian vote to change system 
ROME (AP) -Seeking to cast off a political system that pro­duced corruption and political gridlock, Italians voted by a landslide for electoral reform, results showed Monday. 
The landslide referendum vote paves the way for sweeping electoral reforms and the fall of yet another government, Italy's 51st since World War II. 
It climaxed 14 months of revelations that have shaken the country since prosecutors began uncovering systematic corruption reaching the highest levels of politics and finance. 
"It's not only a great victory, it is almost a cry of liberation," said Willer Bordon, an official of the reformist movement Democratic Alliance, which battled for the referendum to be held. 

Italians voted for a measure that would require three-quar­ters of the 315-seat Senate to be elected directly, rather than apportioned according to the percentage of votes received by each party. 
Elections for the country's 630-seat Chamber of Deputies are also expected to be re­formed, but will be tricky, since that will involve rewriting laws. 
Direct elections are expected to allow one party or an 

Overflow forces students to seek additional parking 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
Due to a sharp increase in the number of students who brought cars back to campus following Easter break, the D-2 student parking lot is over­crowded and students are be­ing told to park in the C-1 lot, south of the football stadium. 
"But, I don't want to see ev­erybody shifting to the C-1 lot," said Phil Johnson, assistant di­rector of Notre Dame Security and director of campus parking 



PIZZA TUESDAY! 
Beat the Clock 5:00 p.m .... 7:30 p.m. 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery 


271,1177 
alliance of parties to gain a majority in the legislature and thereby eliminate the need for so many weak coalition governments, formed without voters' consent. 
While the electoral change in itself will not eliminate corrup­tion, it is expected that allowing Italians to vote for individuals will also reduce the influence of the money-hungry party barons who control the political system. 
The power of the parties has been blamed in part for the corruption scandal. which centers on kickbacks for lucra­tive public service contracts. 
affairs. "C-1 is only for use when D-2 is full." 
Students assigned to D-2 will be ticketed for parking in lots other than C-1, he said, includ­ing parking in the other student lot, D-6. 
"We have to maintain some order in the rest of the park­ing," said Johnson. 
Johnson said Security is un­sure of how many students are affected by the overflow of the lot, which has a capacity of 1,257 vehicles. 

____,____________ 
page 4 The Observer 


Forum 
continued from page 1 
originally attempted to appro­priate black women's experi­ence in the same category as white women's experience. 
"Womanism can employ a feminist critique, but woman­ism deals with racism and other issues as well as sexism," said Browne. 
"The black woman's experi­ence has been a voice that has been suppressed for hundreds of years," she added. 
Hardy spoke on the "History of the African American woman." She pointed out the difference between black women's and white women's experience. 
"Black women gave birth to property, while white women produced citizens," she said. 
Tuesday, April 30, 1993 
"Being an African American here, a lot of times I feel like I'm just another tree because I am ignored," she said. 
She noted differential treat­ment. "People just won't talk to you as readily." 
Kristen Clark, a Notre Dame senior, said that sexism is pre­sent in classes for white and black women. 
"In one class I had, the pro­fessor automatically discounted or just said 'wrong' to any woman's comment in elass." 
Clark said there is an ironic backlash against feminism, among both men and women at Notre Dame. 
"If you ask a Notre Dame woman if she is for economie, social, and polilieal equality for women, she says 'of course,' but if you ask her if she consid­ers herself a feminist, they say 'no.' That's what feminism is about," she said. 


Waco 
continued from page 1 
person said that as he left the building "he could hear above him people saying: 'The fire's been lit, the fire's been lit,"' Stern said. 
Killorin said one of the people came out shooting, but Stern said it wasn't clear if that person had been in the com­pound. 
FBI spokesman Nestor Michnyak said the tear gas used in the compound was non­flammable. 
The assault was by far the most aggressive action taken by the federal government since agents raided the compound on Feb. 28. Four federal agents died and 16 were injured in shootouts that day, and cult leaders have said six of their members were killed. 
At the briefing before the fire, Hicks had said: "At this point we're not negotiating. We're saying come out. Come out with your hands up. This matter is over." 
Asked why the agents moved against the compound today, Ricks said, "Today's action was not a sign that our patience has run out. ... This was, we be­lieve, the next logical step in a series of actions to bring this to a conclusion." 
The FBI had previously said it was reluctant to use tear gas because of the danger it might pose to children. 
There were believed to be at least 17 children under age 10 among the 95 followers holed up with Koresh, who has claimed to be Jesus Christ. Thirty-seven people, mostly children, have left the com­pound since the standoff began. 
Agents had hoped "the motherly instinct would take place" and the children would be allowed to go free, Ricks said. "Apparently they don't care about their children, and that is unfortunate," he said. 
President Clinton said in Washington that he had ad­vance notice of the assault, and that Attorney General Janet Heno and the FBI made the de­cision to begin the operation. 

SMOKING STINKS!!!!! 
Before the operation began, Ricks said, federal agents tele­phoned the cult compound and warned one of its leaders that the cultists would be gassed if they didn't surrender. In re­sponse, he said, the person on the other end threw the tele­phone out the door. 
At midmorning, cultists had hung a banner from one of the second-floor windows saying: "We want our phones fixed." 
The siege began Feb. 28, when more than 100 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents tried to arrest Koresh and search for illegal weapons at the fortresslike cluster of light peach-colored buildings east of Waco. 
After reneging on earlier pledges to end the siege, Ko­resh had recently said he would give up after completing a manuscript that attempts to solve the Bible's Seven Seals, which hint at an end to the world. 
The FBI spent the last several weeks removing debris and cars from around the building, eliminating possible cover for cultists and clearing the way for tanks to reach the walls. 
FBI 
continued from page 1 
kinds of situations are to try the best you can to negotiate it out ... and at the same time you're negotiating you're planning the 'what ifs' in case the negotiations don't work out," he said. 
Louden said he couldn't speculate about what prompted the FBI to give up on negotiat­ing, "but obviously something ... changed the mind of the in­cident commander." 
The FBI -which inherited control over the Branch David­ian siege from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms -didn't say what that some­thing was. But the negotiations were replete with frustrations and disappointments, any of which may have prompted a reassessment of tactics. 
As it was, the tactics were changed several times. 
For instance, on March 3, just four days after the siege began, Ricks was asked if the FBI was conside-ring bright lights and loud music as a form of psychological warfare. 
"We will not discuss tactics of 

that sort, but I'd say the chances are minimal," he replied. 
Within several weeks, the FBI had begun shining blazing stadium lights on the cult's compound and blaring tapes of loud music, dentists drills and snippets of the negotiations with Koresh himself. 
"We will take whatever action that's necessary to get it resolved," Ricks said on March 
22. "And again our ultimate goal from day one is to get it resolved peacefully." 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
manage ND Video. 
Student Body President Frank Flynn and co-president KaraChristopherson announced plans to establish a task committee on the dining hall meal plans. 
"We'd like to develop a report on the meal plans at Notre Dame ... and examine the way Notre Dame works in compari­son to other schools," said Christopherson. 
Aceording to Christopherson. the committee would begin meeting this summer. 

Happy 2·1st Mama Falto! 
Love, ur Falto Brood 

Does Blowpipe realize what he s getting into with the Yodermeister? 
ith the purchase of 


an AI Franken ticket 
for Friday, April23 at 8pm in Stepan 

or a Tom DeLuca ticket 
for Wed. April 21 at 7pm in Debartolo Aud. 
on Tuesday, April 20 
beginning at 1pm 
FREE AnTostal T-shirt 



or cup 

While supplies last 

S'IUDENT UNION BOAllD 

--~-~~~-------·......-------~----~~----~ ~ -----­
Tuesday, April 30, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Serb guns silent in Srebrenica; Muslims, Croats clash in Bosnia 
TUZLA. Bosnia-Herzegovina (AP) -Serb guns trained on Srebrenica kept silent Monday as U.N. troops worked to ce­ment a truce for the east Bosnian town. But heavy Mus­lim-Croat fighting again con­vulsed central Bosnia. 
U.N. officials said up to 200 people died in four days of combat in the central region. Both Serbs and Croats had "ethnically cleansed" villages in the area, said Shannon Boyd, a spokeswoman in Zagreb, Croatia, for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. 
In Tuzla, British military spokesman Maj. Martin Waters said the U.N. command con­firmed fighting in the central towns of Zenica, Vitez and Kiseljak. 
In the worst bloodshed, 13 people were killed Monday when seven artillery shells struck Zenica, 30 miles north­west of Sarajevo, Capt. Lee Smart, a British U.N. peace­keeper, said by telephone from Vitez. 
Bosnia's BH news agency said a total of 16 died and 30 were wounded by Croat shelling of Zenica. 
A two-day airlift from mostly Muslim Srebrenica ended Monday after French and Bri­tish helicopters brought out 469 sick and wounded, emptying the town hospital. Patients had suffered for months without adequate medicine and care. 
They were brought to Tuzla, a Muslim city 45 miles to the northwest. U.N. officials planned to start truck evacua­tions of all wanting to leave this week. Peacekeepers arrived Sunday after defenders signed a truce that amounted to a virtual surrender of Srebrenica -one of only three remaining Muslim enclaves in eastern Bosnia. A food convoy also arrived Monday. 
Gen. Philippe Morillon, commander of U.N. peace-


SAVE BIG $$$ !! In ad:lilial to oor BIG tcdOfY rebates, ~ acNant:lge of oor ruege Grad.Jates ard Yo.rg futeiS 
FORD pi{X]rams ttat wil rebate yoo up 1o $400. PJg1t roN yoo 
TOYOTA VOLVO

can buy atony $100 rNer dealer invace! Cal me tcxay! 
MITSUBISHI LINCOLN-MERCUR 


Corner of Jefferson &Cedar, Mishawaka 
REGULAR HOURS 

Elkhart 674-9926 Toll free (800) 837-1981 MO~EJ:!~~i:.~¥~~-r ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:... 
• 




Mama Marriott's 
Wednesday Night Italian Buffet 
Every Wedn~sday iL's Mama Marrioll's lw.liun Buffet in the Looking Glass R~.:stuurant. A "buoJJ gusto" array of antipasla, min~:sll'onc, fcttucdn~.:, cal:£Ont.l, lasagnu, pa$ta with four sauces, cheese, breads amJ dcssem. It's all served up in a festive llulinn atmosphere-checkered LabiL.! cloths, -th.: works. 
Every Wednesday 5:00p.m. • JO:OO p.m. All you can l!ut for$ 11.95 Childr~:n under 12 $5.75 
Reservations appreciated. 
I 
Each Adult's Wednesday Night Mama Marrlot Italian Buffet Purchased Between 5:00p.m. -7:00p.m. This otTer applies to students and employees of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's 
I Not Valid With Any Other Discount Offer Expires 611/93 
SOUTH BEND~QfrtOtt~

I 
L 123 N. St. JOli£!\ St.. Sou1h ilcnd (219) 234-2000 
--Cuuj>VII --­
keepers in Bosnia, said his sol­diers "can assure the survival and protection of the inhabi­tants. It's not a question of the 
U.N. forces administering the city." 
He told France-Info radio the city was "spared from destruc­tion ... This ... would have thrown the whole peace process into question." 
Bosnia seceded from Yu­goslavia in February 1992. Serbs fighting secession have seized about 70 percent of the country, seeking to create a "Greater Serbia." More than 134,000 people have been killed or are missing. 
Under the cease-fire at Sre­brenica, the area is to be com­pletely demilitarized within 72 hours, said Cmdr. Barry Frewer of Canada, a U.N. peacekeeper spokesman. 
Serb militamen were expected to move out of the Srebrenica zone. Muslim fighters, with nowhere to go, seemed to have no choice but to hand over their arms. After that, U.N. troops would be responsible for the town's security. 

Many of Srebrenica's de­fenders resented the agree­ment, and it was unclear if the cease-fire would last. Scores of truces have failed to hold. 
"If the Serbs give up their weapons, we will give up weapons," said Jakub Salihovic, 35, speaking from a hospital bed in Tuzla. "Our commander told us the last man will die fighting." 
His wounded comrades, seated on nearby hospital beds, nodded in agreement. 
Sarajevo, Bosnia's capital, was quiet Monday except for sporadic sniper fire. 
But Croat-Muslim fighting further eroded the two groups' anti-Serb alliance. Muslims and Croat have fought together against Serbs in some areas, but clashed in districts contain­ing few Serbs. 
The fighting also threatened to choke the U.N. aid lifeline into central and eastern Bosnia by closing roads normally used to deliver the bulk of supplies. 
Col. Bob Stewart, with British 
U.N. peacekeepers, said his men drew occasional fire as they tried for a truce and evac­uation of civilians. 
Russia, a traditional ally of Serbia, said Monday it might support tougher U.N. economic sanctions to pressure Yu­goslavia to stop supporting the Bosnian Serb war effort. 
Russia and China abstained when the U.N. Security Council passed a resolution Saturday to tighten sanctions on Yu­goslavia's remaining states ­Serbia and Montenegro. 
Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev ruled out out­side military intervention ­apparently in an indirect warning to Western leaders now prepared to consider mili­tary a<;tion. 

Jewish heroes remembered after 50 years 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -The heroism of the ragged Jewish fighters who rose to the doomed defense of the Warsaw ghetto 50 years ago was re­called with sirens, gunfire, smoke and flame on Monday. 
"They had no chance, but they have won because in the history of mankind they will remain as defenders of the flame of honor," Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told thousands gathered to mark the 50th anniversary of the uprising. 
Sirens, gunfire and the sound of trains screeching to a halt-symbolizing the uprising alert, 
the fighting and the final deportations to death camps ­filled the night air. 
Billowing smoke recalled the inferno the Germans set to drive out the fighters. 
Six flaming pillars. repre­senting the 6 million Jews who died in the Holocaust, burned before a monument to the ghetto fighters. The monument was built of granite ordered by Nazi leader Adolf Hitler in preparation for a Nazi victory. 
Ghetto survivors and their 

families watched with flickering candles, their presence testi­mony that the Nazis failed to obliterate the Jews. 
On the same ground on April 19, 1943, Nazis surged forward to liquidate the ghetto and were met by Europe's first armed civilian uprising against Ger­man occupiers. 
The troops were shocked into a brief retreat. A moment of joy reigned in the walled hell. The 1,000 or so Jewish fighters held out nearly four weeks. 
"How could the human race have allowed such a calamity as the Holocaust to fall upon us," asked U.S. Vice President AI Gore, making his first foreign trip. "The story of the Warsaw Ghetto is sacred text for our time. It warns us of the unfath­omable power of evil." 
President Lech Walesa spoke of the anti-Semitism that haunts Catholic Poland ­"Ideas can kill. This is the tragic lesson from the Holo­caust." 
But this was only a backdrop to the mind-numbing recollec-
Ge wantto talk to you ... 
The Office ofUniversity Computing (OUC) is acampus service organization. It's mission is to meet the various needs ofthe campus·community. To better understand these needs, the OUC directors plan to visit adifferent part ofthe campus every day ofthe week ofApril19-23. Come talk with us. Hear our upcoming plans, and let us know what we can do to better serve you. 
SCHEDULE  
Monday , April 19  3:30-5:00  131 Decio  
Tuesday, April 20  12:00-1:30  121 Hayes-Healy  
3:30-5:00  262 Stepan  
Conference Room  
Wednesday, April21  3:30-5:00  258 Fitzpatrick  
Thursday, April 22  3:30-5:00  Foster Room,  
LaFortune Center  
Friday, April 23  3:30-5:00  121 Main Building  

Light refreshments will be seNed. 
tions, miracles of survival and hope for future generations of­fered by the few survivors. 
"Most of my family was killed during the uprising and their memory is precious to me," Australian Boris Kaplon said earlier. "That is why I came." 
"No words can explain," said Walter Cykiert, who dodged death in the ghetto as a teen­ager. 
SECURITY BEAT 

GROUNDHOG DAY (PG} 5:00. 7:30 THE SANDLOT (PG} 4:30. 7:00. 9:30 POINT OF No RETURN (R} 10:00 
INDECENT PROPOSAL (R} 4:45. 7:15, 9:45 


page 6 The Observer Tuesday, April 20, 1993 
Focus on ordinary, not outrageous, for gay march 

WASHINGTON  (AP)  "For every one person who is  national civil rights law for ho­ 1987 march.  quiries are being referred to  
Organizers of what gay rights  somehow outrageous, there will  mosexuals, an end to the mili­ Organizers of some opposition  outlying hotels.  
activists expect will be their  be 100 just like the neighbors  tary's ban on gays and in­ groups, including the Christian  Participants were arriving  
largest event ever hope the  next door," said Scout, a co­ creased spending on AIDS re­ Action Network and Concerned  Monday to begin a week of al­ 
public will look beyond the out­ chair  of  the  March  on  search.  Women for America, said no  most  300 events  planned  
landish to the ordinary - the  Washington for Lesbian, Gay  The march has been planned  major counter-protests were  around the march.  
thousands of homosexual doc­ and Bi Equal Rights and Libera­ for two years. It took on new  planned. One evangelical group,  There are meetings for gay  
tors, pilots and soldiers de­ tion.  life, however, when President  Transformation  Ex-Gay  men and lesbians who fall into  
manding to be treated equally.  "What people  will  see  is  Clinton made the first moves  Christian Ministry, plans to  dozens of subgroups: blacks,  
Events that begin Tuesday in  nothing more than hundreds of  toward abolishing the decades­ hand out religious tracts telling  Latinos, pilots, Russian speak­ 
advance of Sunday's march on  thousands of American citizens  old ban on gays in the military.  homosexuals  they  are  in  ers; librarians, journalists, po­ 
the nation's capital range from  who have been denied their  "If you don't march  now,  "spiritual jeopardy."  lice, urban planners; Catholics,  
lobbying Congress and present­ civil rights," said Scout, who  when would you?" Scout asked.  Washington's 22,000 hotel  Lutherans. Jews.  
ing solemn reminders of the toll  has only one legal name.  The  event  should  eclipse  rooms have been booked for  There will be get-togethers  
of AIDS to a leather-fetish party,  Organizers predict as many as  previous gay marches in 1979  weeks because of the march,  for lesbian Republicans and  a  
mass gay wedding and drag­ 1 million people will march on  and 1987. she said. Police said  according to the local hotel as­ camp-out for gay military vet­ 
queen show.  Washington  to  demand  a  200,000 attended the October  sociation, and hundreds of in­ erans.  
Gene therapy begun for cystic fibrosis  

WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­a defect in what is called the "We hope the virus will trans­searchers have begun trans­cystic transmemberane con­fer the normal gene into the ferring normal genes into cystic ductance regulator gene. This center of the cells to compen­HAppy BiRT AY fibrosis patients in an exper­flawed gene interferes with sate for the abnormal gene that iment they hope will lead to a production of a protein that these people have," said Crys­B. B.! cure for the most common fatal controls the flow of salt through tal. genetic disease in the United cells lining the airways. As a He said the transferred gene You'RE jusT NOT THE States. result, heavy mucous builds up will be in the nucleus of the 
in the lungs, leading to in­target cells, but will not become 
HEAVywEiqHT WE
The National Heart, Lung and flammation, progressive lung incorporated permanently into Blood Institute announced deterioration and eventually the chromosomes. Crystal said 
THouqHT you WERE.
Monday that a pioneering effort death. this means that the therapy using a modified cold virus to The therapy is designed to may have to be repeated peri­treat cystic fibrosis with a type correct the work of the flawed odically. of gene therapy started last gene by using the modified cold Saturday, the day after the ex­virus to insert a normal gene Crystal said that the same 
WE lovE yA!
perimental procedure was ap­into cells of the airways. The dose will be used on a second proved. cold virus will infect the lung patient within a week. Eight A version of an adenovirus, a cells, but will not reproduce it­other patients will receive the 
THE GANq 
common cold virus, modified to self to cause aspreading infec­therapy, at increasing doses, carry a normal human gene tion. later in the year. 
was dripped into the nose and airways of a 23-year-old man who has cystic fibrosis. 
"The patient is fine. There were no adverse effects. No fever,'" said Dr. Ronald Crystal, a Cornell University researcher who developed the gene ther­apy technique while working at the National Institutes of Health. "He had a big pizza for dinner last night." 
Crystal said identification of the patient was being withheld. A second patient is in isolation awaiting a second try of the technique in about a week, he said. 
The NIH and the Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved Crystal's application to treat 10 cystic fibrosis pa­tients with the experimental technique. The experiment is being conducted at the NIH clinical center. 
"This pioneering research marks the first use of gene therapy for a common genetic disorder," said Dr. Claude Len­rant, director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Insti­tute. "If this approach works, we may finally see a cure &or this lethal disease." 
For the experiment, a cold virus was disabled so it could not cause infection and then was modified to contain a nor­mal of the human gene which is defective in cystic fibrosis pa­tients. A solution of the virus was put into the nose of the CF patient and then dripped into his left lung using a bronchial tube. 
Cystic fibrosis patients inherit 

Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of Saint Mary's 


272-7510 



enta 

•1/4 
Mile from Library •Washer & Dryer Units 

•Brand 
New Appliances •Large Closets 

•2 
Bedrooms •Covered Parking 

•2 
Bathrooms •Security System 


•Large Balconies 
CALL Now FoR APPOINTMENTS 
272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 er month 
Q:Where will my parents stay for 1993 Graduation? 


A:Residence Inn! 
Rooms Still Available 

•One & Two Bedroom Suites 
Residence Inn by Marriott

•Complimentary Breakfast 
716 N. Niles Ave 

•Fully 
Equipped Kitchens South Bend, IN 46617 

•
Pool, Whirlpool, Exercise Room 

•1 
Mile from Campus 



(219) 289-5555 



Business 
Tuesday, April 20, 1993 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Biomet CEO speaks to club 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT Materials Science/Biomedical promptly as the industry
Chinese officials optimistic despite inflation 
Business Writer Engineering from the University exhibits demand for new•BEIJING-Chinese officials announced sharply higher 
of Cincinnati. and his work products. One should not
inflation figures Monday but continued to paint a rosy economic Most important to the before the establishment of necessarily expand as much aspicture. Zhang Zhongji, spokesman for the State Statistical establishment of a successful Biomet gained him experience capital allows. One must avoid,Bureau, released first-quarter figures that showed retail prices business is a timely entrance in the research and he said, the "analysis-paralysis" in China's 35 biggest cities rose an average of 16 percimt from into the marketplace and the development of products for the problem. when companies
the first quarter of 1992. In rural areas the figure was 9 
proper implementation of capi­biomedical industry. spend so long in planning thatpercent. The inflation figures were the highest in five years. 
tal to meet the expected market His gradual shift from the new market opportunitiesZhang said the economy's growth rate -14 percent in the rrrst demands, said Dane Miller, production to management re­fill up.
quarter -outpaced the government's declared goal of 8 to 9 Chief Executive Officer of sponsibilities illustrated his be­The "people aspect" ofpercent, but said the actual rate "may be higher or lower than Biomet Inc. lief in the importance of em­business management
the target." He said per capita incomes are increasing on 
In his Monday afternoon lec­ploying knowledgeable people prompted Miller to keep aaverage faster than inflation -27 percent before inflation· in ture, part of the Entrepreneur at each level of a company's watchful eye on the productivity cities and 15 percent in rural areas. 
Club's lecture series, Miller hierarchy and has earned him of Biomet's employees. He discussed the establishment of national recognition as one of emphasized that CEOs should Biomet, its work as a supplier this country's top CEOs. place the highest value on their

EEC moves to pump-prime economies . . 
of equipment to orthopedic A significant portion of employees, their happiness in•LUXEMBOURG-European Community finance ministers medicine, and the relation of Miller's lecture was devoted to the workplace, and their pro­approved proposals Monday to revive the depressed economy of entrepreneurs to to the man­the analysis of his experience in ductivity, and promote a cre­the 12-nation trade bloc and create 450,000 new jobs over the agement and marketing por­managing Biomet. attempting to ative work environment innext two years. They said in a statement: "The community has tions of business. explain his success in the which to nurture the spirit of ... decided to change and renew the design of economic policies. 
Miller founded Biomet in industry. the entrepreneur. 
The aim is to promote economic growth and employment in a 1978 with three other partners Recalling the position of the A company's important busi­
balanced and sustainable way... The plan aims to boost 
using $250,000 of their own his new company entering a ness decisions should be made,economic growth by 0.6 percent in 1994. It forecasts that $42 capital and a $500,000 grant well established industry in the not by those at the top as isbillion will be injected into the economy as a result of the re­from the Federal Small late 70's, he pinpointed the gap common, but by those Millercovery package. The program stresses public spending for Business Administration. which open in the marketplace characterized as "in theinfrastructure projects and research. Priority will be given to The company's sales have ex­when the United States Food trenches," working on thetrans-European transportation, telecommunications and energy panded from $17,000 in its pilot and Drug Administration products and finding marketsnetworks. Europe's economy is in its deepest slump in decades. 
year to sales in 1992 of close to expanded its influence to cover for those products. 
Unemployment is expected to hit a post-Worrd War II high of 11 $3 million. the influx of new products He offered few formulas forpercent next year. 
With half of its current available for use in the medical quick success, but Miller said production realized in the profession. that. in making the transition to

FDA ooens up new markets for NutraSweet 
"hardware" needed in joint Miller explained that when a managing partner, he found it •cHICAGo-Cake mixes, candy and low-alcohol beer could reconstructions, Biomet's cur­regulatory adjustments, such as necessary to "makebe the next products to display the NutraSweet swirl after the rent expansion trends are to­the USFDA's new policy, concessions" to those with moregovernment approved new uses for the low-calorie sweetener ward the production of instru­confront an industry, the larger knowledge in particular areas
aspartame. Monday's approval of aspartame in commercial 
ments used in orthroscopic companies are unlikely to re­and to use intuition only afterbaked goods and low-alchohol beer by the Food and Drug surgery: surgeons' tools, elec­spond to the varied competition substantially researching one'sAdministration opens up a broad new potential market for trical stimulation devices, and introduced by new businesses. options.
NutraSweet Co. and Holland Sweetener Co., another aspartame equipment used in repairing This search for a market As this sucessful man said, "Imanufacturer. 
facial bones. niche, said Miller, ought to be did a lot of looking and listening Miller received his PhD in followed by the goal to expand before I opened my mouth."

Stock offering causes Chase stock to plummet 
•NEW YORK-Chase Manhattan Corp. stock fell as investors worried that a new $750 million stock offering will dilute the 

Financial mismanagement 
Chrysler

value of their shares. The bank announced 8.5 percent higher earnings in the first quarter after several one-time gains and 
plagues Defense Department
charges. Also on Monday, Charlotte, N.C.-based NationsBank 

reports

Corp., the nation's fourth-largest bank, said its profits advanced WASHINGTON (AP) -The The Fund fixes the prices of55 percent to $481 million, or $1.89 a share. NationsBank $81 billion Defense Business items sold depending on how 

large profits 

reported a substantial increase in outstanding loans. 
Operations Fund, which buys much excess cash is needed. supplies from toilet paper to The money generated is


Time Warner postsfirst-quarter loss 
spare parts for the military merged into one account. 
HIGHLAND PARK, Mich.

•NEW YORK-Time Warner Inc. posted a loss for the first~ services, is beset by widespread For the current fiscal year, (AP} -Chrysler Corp.'s first­quarter despite improved performances by each of the huge 
financial management the Defense Department esti­quarter. operating profits
media-entertainment conglomerates's five divisions. The loss, 
problems. congressional mates that the Fund will have 
surged to $530 million, a

announced Monday, broke a series of five consecutive quarterly investigators say. sales of goods and services of 
healthy performance ob­

profits but was due to changes in how the company must "The Defense Department has about $81 billion and assets scured by a $4.7 billion one­account for payments on the heavy debt load incurred in the not been able to achieve ef­valued at $126 billion. It will time cost to account for future merger that created Time Warner in 1990. 
fective financial management employ 360,000 civilian and 
retiree health benefits. and control with its present mix military personnel. 
The profitable quarter was


Grou~ ur~es caution on Medicaid changes 
of knowledge, expertise and Sen. Charles Grassley, R­
·the fourth straight for the No.

•INDI NAOLI5-A group of human services organizatipns skills." the General Accounting Iowa, a critic of the Fund, said 3 automaker. though the non­urged lawmakers Monday to reject some of the proposals to Office said in a March 1 letter. last month that it is "a book­cash accounting charge re­reduce the Medicaid deficit, saying the changes would add to 
The letter was sent to the keeping scheme devised by sulted in a loss of $4.15
the burden on Indiana's poor. The group specifically attacked a chairman of the House Armed clever Pentagon bureaucrats to 
billion, or $12.81 a share.

legislative proposal that would reduce the number of pregnant Services Committee, Rep. Ron generate excess cash." 
Before the accounting

women eligible for prenatal and postnatal Medicaid assistance 
Dellums, D-Calif.. and the The GAO found that the 
change, Chrysler's per shareand one that would require patients to pay for a portion of 

panel's ranking Republican, Fund's financial reports were 
earnings were $1.57.

certain services-so-called "co-payments." The group sai(i Rep. Floyd Spence of South unreliable. Specifically, there Before-tax profits of $880prenatal care was an effective means to insure healthier babies Carolina. was a difference of $2.5 billion 
million were a company

and keep health care costs down in the long run.Since expan­Created in October 1991, the in the Fund's fiscal year 1992 record. Adding an estimatedsion of Medicaid eligibility for pregnant women and children Fund consolidated nine existing financial and budget reports. 
$95 million for the ongoingbegan. the infant mortality rate in Indiana has declined from 11 industrial and stock funds op­The Pentagon had no imme­

cost of future retiree health

percent in 1988 to 9.6 percent in 1990, the group said. 
erated by the military services diate comment on the report on 
benefits. Chrysler's pre-taxand the Defense Department. Monday. 
income was just shy of $1 billion. In the first quarter of 1992, Clrrysler lost $13 million, or 7



Senate debate stalls Clinton's jobs bill 
cents a share, including one­WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­that initially carried a $16.3 said in a speech to the Building Maine, discussed the measure 
time gains for income tax ac­dent Clinton expressed hope billion price tag. and Construction Trades of the privately with Senate Minority 
counting changes and the sale Monday that a compromise with "I think we have a chance to AFL-CIO. Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., nei­
of $88 million in Mitsubishi Republicans will rescue his work it out and I'm hopeful," At least some Republicans ther man reported any progress 
Motors Corp. stock. stalled jobs bill, but Senate Clinton told reporters. seemed ready to end what has in crafting a compromise. 
Chrysler's first-quarter leaders of 
At the same time, however, become their fiercest clash to With many senators not ex­
sales were $10.9 billion, up both parties the president sounded a more date with Clinton. pected back at the Capitol until 
33 percent over $8.19 billion offered no combative note as he tried to Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., Tuesday, both leaders were ea­
in the first quarter last year. hints that they rescue one of the prime pieces offered anew a compromise he ger to learn if any votes had 
"We're pretty pleased with were near a of his economic program from a proposed two weeks ago, shifted during their break ­
the results and looking for­deal. GOP filibuster that has bogged trimming the package to about and if there was anything they 
ward to the spring market," As the it down since last month. $9 billion and paying for many could do to win additional sup­
said Corporate Controller Jim Senate ended Republicans have complained of its components by cutting port. 
Donlon. "This was done with an 11-day that the bill, which would be existing programs. Only the $4 Thus, Mitchell and Dole post­
winter weather and a recess and financed by federal borrowing, billion in unemployment bene­poned from Tuesday until 
blizzard. We're hopeful we resumed would needlessly inflate the fits in the measure would be fi­Wednesday a vote on whether 
can move on from here." debating the budget deficit. nanced by federal borrowing. to force an end to the GOP fili­
Lehman Brothers analyst measure, the Bill Clinton "Folks. this is the crowd that "I do believe the time has buster. Democrats, who have a 
Joseph Phillippi said White House had the government for 12 come for both sides to move," 57-43 edge in the Senate, have 
Chrysler's first-quarter said it might agree to alter the years. They took the deficit he said. fallen short three times of the 
earnings may be its highest of bill again. On Friday. Clinton from $1 trillion to $4 trillion. Yet after Senate Majority 60 votes needed to end the Re­
the year. whittled $4 billion from a bill llave they no shame?" Clinton Leader George Mitchell, D-publican delays. 
----------~---~---------­
------------------~--------------------------------------------.------~-------------------­

Viewpoint 
pageS 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 . SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor •••••••••Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman VIewpoint Edltor.•••..Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor •••••••••••George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fong Accent Edltor••••.....•..••••Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .•.••••••••••••••••••••Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631·4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 



Coed dorms 'facilitate socialization' 
Kurt Mills 
"On the Other Hand" 
It was just over a year ago that the administration an­nounced that Pangborn Hall would be converted to a women's dorm to accommodate the increasing number of women being admitted to the University. In response, a pro­posal was put forward by a group of students to convert it, instead, into a coed dorm. Even though the proposal was fairly moderate, it was turned down. 
Why was the anachronistic policy of single sex dorms upheld? The answer must be considered along with another, very much related policy­parietals. Parietals. I have been told, have nothing to do with sex. 
In other words, the motiva­tion behind parietals is not to prevent people from having sex. Rather, it is intended to help regulate relations between roommates. In other words, parietals are intended to pre­vent one roommate from im­posing on another roommate by having a member of the op­posite sex in the room too late, and disrupting their ability to work or sleep or whatever. 
There are several things wrong with this rationale. First, it seems to me that the admin­istration should consider un­dergraduates as responsible, intelligent individuals who will be able to work out their roommate relationships for themselves, and if for some reason they cannot, that is what RAs and rectors are for. 
Second, having members of the same sex in the room after parietals can be just as disrup­tive; yet, this is not addressed within the policy. Presumably, roommates are able to work out these disruptions for them-


DOONESBURY 


SID~CVK&! GRYfT, MAN, 
HOW'5MY JIETGRMT! otA/...C£»1-IAI&'V£3 GOTA 
WTOFHEAT... 
I 
selves. 
So, one might conclude that the policy does have something to do with sex. This adminis­tration, in keeping with its Catholic character, seems ob­sessed with sex, even going so far as having a provision for kicking people out for having sex outside of marriage. Yet, even the administration has recognized that a significant percentage of the student popu­lation is sexually active. 
So, parietals could be part of a crusade to keep that number from increasing. And, of course, coed housing could only be seen as undermining their crusade to keep 8,000 under­graduates sexually frustrated by reducing the possibilities of any kind of contact between members of the opposite sex. 
As someone who went to a college where parietals are a foreign concept and where ev­erybody lives in coed housing, I can assure the administration that coed housing does not re­duce undergraduates to a bunch of sex maniacs. The 
BUTIA/t'RE GOING 7V HAV/3 70 MOV/3 f/J.5T.' PARAMOJNT HAS AI.R&ADY PIC!<!3D UP THe RIGHTS TO THe RESCUe 
a<W'S 5TORY... I 
housing situation was simple and direct: almost all dorm halls were coed. 
In other words, there were men and women living on the same hall, and they shared the same bathrooms. The same was true in the on-campus apartments. Men and women shared all the same living and bathroom facilities. Of course, this was sort of disconcerting to some parents. But, as they saw their children living normally in such an environment they adjusted. 
The living situation did not induce people to have more sex than they would have other­wise. Of course, people did have sex, just like here and ev­erywhere else, but I doubt that the numbers increased because men and women had access to each other's rooms for an extra eight hours a day. And, the sex that did occur was probably more open and consensual than what occurs on a campus where men and women are held at arms length most of the time. 
NOWAY, I 7HOI.JGHT SO, 9/ll. IKJN&Y T00,8UTAP­AJ..ReAl7Y PARI3NTL.Y TH&Y 7001< ('.Afl& otCICW TO 6tT 
CF7H£3 TH&IROWN Ci?EIAJ. AGWT. 

Which brings me to my next point. Part of the college expe­rience is supposed to facilitate socialization into wider society. Outside of Notre Dame, people are, believe it or not, able to stop by and say hi to somebody outside of narrowly prescribed hours during the day. And, they do interact with each other in numerous (and non-sexual) ways which parietals and sin­gle-sex dorms inhibit. 
At my college, relations be­tween the sexes were much better than they are here. Part of this was due to the fact that those who attended (most im­portantly the men) were more open-minded and more pre­disposed to seeing members of the opposite sex as real people with whom one could have a wide range of friendships and relationships. But part of it was the fact that the living ar­rangements allowed normal interaction and thus facilitated such perceptions. Notre Dame, by restricting such interaction, actually fosters the belief that men and women can only have relations which are sexual, and unhealthy sexual relations at that. 
Two other points about the different ways in which under­graduates and graduate stu­dents are treated at Notre Dame will further point to the irrationality of current policy. First, there are no parietals in the graduate housing of Fis­cher/O'Hara-Grace (FOG). 
Apparently, the administra­tion trusts graduate students to be able to handle such freedom better than undergraduates. Second, one coed housing unit does exist on campus. It is called Peace House, and it is where 14 graduate students in the International Scholars Pro­gram of the Peace Institute live with each other for a year. There are two floors, and while they are usually divided be­tween men and women, de­pending on the gender makeup of the program in a particular year, there may be one or two people living on the other floor. 
I have known a number of people who have lived there over the years and none of them have indicated that the coed housing arrangements present major problems. It is proof, not only (like FOG) that parietals are not necessary, but that coed housing works at Notre Dame. 
A lot of people are concerned about relations between the sexes on campus. Perhaps the administration should reexam­ine some of its outdated policies which actually hurt such rela­tions, and consider new ap­proaches, including coed housing. 
Kurt Mills is a doctoral can­didate in the Department of Government and International Studies. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Tuesday, April 20, 1993 
WHAT? 
P/f.IO? 
f 
"My favorite cure for boredom is sleep." 



Robert M. Pirsig 
Wake up! Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q. N. D.. IN 46556 


Accent 

Tuesday, April 20, 1993 page 9 
The future is Sky Blues 

photo courtesy /David A. Elkins ND student Greg de Sousa, second from right, is a member of the up and coming band Sky Blues. The other members are Marc lan Keslow, Jon Rubin and Cliff Rubin. 
ND student,s band holds great promise in the music world 
By ROB ADAMS pact disc collection which has a serious about their music. Blues sold the album in front of Another song with interesting Accent Writer wide range of music from Billy Summer is the only season Tower Records and began to get lyrics is "Company Man," which 
Joel to Lynrd Skynrd to Pearl these days when Sky Blues can some industry names which describes "our frustrations as a 
Rocking the music world as Jam. be together for months at a helped boost their late 1992 band," de Sousa explained. well as the Notre Dame com­Since his fellow band mem­time. The results are intense. effort, Temptation and "We've been struggling with munity, Notre Dame sopho­bers are on the east coast and Usually working in the studio Persuasion. industry. They see us as kids more, Greg de Sousa, is mem­he is not comfortable working for over 18 hours a day, the and are out to rip us off." ber of the up and coming band, with musicians outside of his members of Sky Blues are Since its release, Temptation With twenty-two new songs Sky Blues. band , de Sousa does not spend workaholics. They have also and Persuasion has received already written and ready to 
De Sousa is drummer of the much time working on his mu­spent vast amounts of time nothing but positive feedback play, Sky Blues looks toward the rock band and is an art studio sic while at Notre Dame. touring all over the East Coast, from fans and critics alike. future with the same positive major who lives in St. Ed's Hall. Sky Blues consists of three said de Sousa. Musician Magazine named Sky attitude they've always had. Unfortunately, his band mates friends who grew up together: "We fly home a lot," said de Blues one of the best unsigned "This summer we'll be touring are from his hometown and are Marc Ian Keslow, the lead Sousa, describing how he and bands of 1992 and they were the East Coast and the Midwest. now spread out along the East singer who also plays some pi­his band mates manage to stay recently chosen to be the sub­Depending on how things go, Coast. De Sousa was attracted ano and guitar and attends the fresh even though they live in ject of an up-and-coming bands we might take next year off to to Notre Dame not because of University of Rhode Island, and four different states. The four profile on MTV. tour. Right now I'm just taking alumni connections, rather he brothers Jon Rubin (American have been good friends since Temptation and Persuasion is one semester at a time." realized the school had a good University) and Cliff Rubin (NYU their childhood days in Scars­an album of rock-n-roll mixed "In this business, if you're reputation. graduate) who alternate dale, New York. "We're very with personal experiences and not cocky, you're doomed," de 
"Well, I don't have any family between guitar and bass duties. tight. It doesn't take us long to issues. One of the songs, Sousa explained. "The music alumni or anything, but Notre Jon Rubin, Keslow, and de get back in the swing of things," "Strangled Heart," was written business is the hardest to get Dame was a big name school Sousa began the band in 1989, said de Sousa. "We constantly by de Sousa after he heard into. Whether it's this summer, that I had always thought about while attending Scarsdale High write." about the women's swim team next summer, or in three years, going to," de Sousa said. School to play covers and have Dreamtown 1931, their first bus accident. "I wrote it right I think we're going to do 
Besides his art and his Jove some fun, but once Cliff joined professional album, came out in after the crash," de Sousa said. something. All comments about of sports, de Sousa owns a com-the band, they became very 1991. The members of Sky "I was under a lot of pressure." our music have been positive." 
Intense acoustics highlight Temptation and~ Persuasion 

Sky Blues' newest release, Temptation and Persuasion, is a combination of hard rock and bluesy funk. 
Amid candid samples and clever hooks, Sky Blues has created a fresh and inviting rock record with their second independent effort, Temptation and Persuasion. 
"The Older I Get" opens the album with palpable bass licks, crunchy guitars, and a comfort~ able blues flavor about it. The lyrics are introspective and deal with becoming less wise with age. 
Rock-n-roll veteran Sarah Dash lends some guest vocals on "Greener," which begins with intense folksy acoustics and then quickly breaks into an atmosphere of harmonious grunge. Dash, who has sung with Keith Richards' X-Pensive Winos, meshes nicely with Keslow as •hey cope with coming closer wgether. 
"Fever in the Funkhouse" is painfully juicy as layers of funk Morrissey's 1988 song, "Little are left to barbecue the song's Man, What Now?" playful lyrics. This is the kind of "The Warden" is a dark song song one would listen to before from which flow emotions of going out. isolation and hatred. As Keslow 

Eerie lyrics brood thr...o...uililg.-h-.ou.-t........l...o.O:c~k:-s•h'::'i.-m":is:Oe•Jf~in;;;,t;;,;;o......,th;;;,e;;....o~;p...o-.w...e..r..­.. Strangled Heart," Music Review which is told from the point of view of a----~==b::-y,...R.,.,o.,.,bA""d""a""m""s,.,...-==-::-::--==­
struggling individual, as low hungry character, gmtars rum­valleys of mood collide with ble and the drums burst into a high points of explosive guitars. powerhouse guitar solo, practi­"Oh please can you help me cally climaxing the entire Lord/From all the things I'm album. "I'm in command/I am going through/Only if you can the boss/Don't you know who I step inside of this/Young and am," read the outbursts of the lonely strangled heart of mine," troubled warden. read the lyrics. Through mixing traditional 
The heartfelt tale concerning rock-n-roll music, socially-con­the trials and tribulations of a scious lyrics, and unpredictable childhood television star is told tidbits of funk and folk in be­through a ballad in "Child Star." tween, Sky Blues has created The tone of mockery an album to be listened to and 
throughout the lyrics seems like enjoyed. an Americanized version of 
page 10 The Observer Tuesday, April 20, 1993 
Coach 
continued from page 16 
three years, he's gotten to know my strengths an weaknesses, so he knows how to work to make me stronger," said junior Megan Hurley. "He always pushed me to do something better." 
Being on the swim team myself, I understand al these feelings. When I look back on my three years swimming for him, I will remember how he gave 100 percent to each of us," she added. 
Dennis Cooper took his commitment to the tea seriously and came prepared each day to give us 
the encouragement, assistance and brutal honest that we needed to be successful. 
Dennis Cooper has made an impact that won' soon be forgotten on both the Saint Mary's swi program and his athletes. 
That impact can be summed up best in a remar of Hurley's, "Respect for Dennis was so high that we didn't want to let him down. We swam for him as well as ourselves." 

SMC tennis falters at Midwest Invite 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team, 8­3, lost their first chance at entering National competition last weekend at the Midwest Invitational in Madison, Wisconsin. 
The Belles first lost to number­one seeded Carlton College, 8-1, on Friday. Later that day, however, they went on to defeat Washington University, 5-4. 
Earlier this season, the Belles downed Washington at Hilton Head, 6-3. 
Unfortunately, this one win was not enough to put them in the quarter finals. 
"Carlton is a really strong team," explained senior Chris Smiggen. 

"We haven't had much match experience since Hilton Head. We're not as match ready and we were real unlucky." 
After having their three previous matches either cancelled or postponed to a later date, the Belles were lacking in match experience last weekend. 
Number-one singles player, junior Mary Cosgrove, however. rose to the occasion and stopped ranked Carlton player, Mona Shah, 1-6, 6-5, 6-4. 
Number-two singles player, ju­nior Thayma Darby, was forced to retire her match agajnst Hache! Awery because of an injury, after winning her first set and leading the second 6-2, 6-5. 
This injury onlt hurt the Belles more since they were already lacking in mateh-play experience. 
In singles play against Washington University, Cosgrove downed Tara Salamore at number­one, 6-0, 6-2, Darby lost a hard fought battle against Kim Villena at number-two, 6-4, 7-fj (7-1 ), 7-6 (8­
6) and Ayres beat her opponent. Ivy Brown, in a three set match at number-three, 6-4, 4-6, 6-3. 
The Belles begin a long week of matches, beginning today as they travel to Albion College and continuing tomorrow at Valparaiso University. Saint Mary's can then be seen playing at home against Hillsdale College on Thursday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day \rom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College 

.... 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

COUNSELORS, summer camp for  Looking to sublet this summer?  Cathedral ceiling and open living  ATIN: SUMMER SCHOOL  
NOTICES  developmentally disabled, June 12­Aug 21, Orlando, FL (407) 889­ Contact x1505 about space at Turtle Creek.  areas in this new 1350 sq.lt., 3 bedroom. 2 bath ranch. Just 3  STUDENTS  Heading for EUROPE this summer? Jet there anytime for only $169 from  
8088.  blocks east of ND campus and built  $5.50 Haircuts  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  
TYPING 256-6657  Summer sublet: furnished  by CRESCENT HOMES.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  (when available) with AIRHITCHt  
Nannies wanted to live in or out in  2 bdrm house near campus  273-2754.  1523 Lincolnway West  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY  
Fortune 500 Company continuing to  the Chicago area. $300+ per wk.  AC, nice yard, $300  South Bend, IN  Times.) AIRHITCH (r)  
expand internationally. Seeking  working with caring families. Teri  Dave 232-7970  Computer desk & chair $75 or b/o.  233-4767  212-864-2000.  
persons interested in becoming  Burgess Consulting is a child care  Call Mary 271-7288.  
integral players in the growth of this  specialist who works with both  3-5 person furnished house, sec  Who is Tasha Paley, and what does  OW THE COPY SHOP OW  
business. Regions targeted include  family and nanny. 1-312-525-4800.  system, wash/dry, beach V-ball,  '86 Dodge 600 Conv., White,  she have to do with Bookstore  in LaFortune Student Center  
Europe, S. and Latin America, and  prime location. $500. 109 N. St.  Low Miles, Great Condition,  Basketball?  QUALITY COPIES  
Pacific Rim. Alter 3 pm, call257­ RB  Peter, 233-9947.  Must Sell by 5/17! $3500 abo  Find out in: Look Out For The  as lowoas 3¢ each  
5283, or 683-3195 for more  273-9406 Lynne.  Manhole Cover, on sale now in the  OPEN 7 DI.YS A WEEK  
information.  I NEED A PLACE TO LIVE!  2 ROOMS W/QUEEN BEDS AVAIL.  bookstore!  
Hey German Club members II  F. ROOMMATE/S & APT. NEEDED 4 SUMMER. TRTLE CRK/CMP VW.  GRAD WKEND.NICELY DECOR. 3 MIN. TO CAMPUS. ADULTS OVER  TICKETS  THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE  Hey Pittsburg\'ilrs! We need som!IOne to organize the  
Please join us one last time for  X2358 CORlE  30 PREF. $170/WKEND/ROOM.  TEAM is currently accepting  luggage truck. If you need the truck.  
some German food at Hans Haus  2n-8340.  Help!Help!Help! I need grad tickets!  applications for a part-time debate  call Diane at 4$28  
on Thursday, April 22nd. We'll meet  Helpl Our babysitter is graduating.  If you have extra call Joe @ 277­ coach. If interested, send a resume,  
at Library Circle at 6:00 and bP nn  Looking for friendly, energized  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  4273.  two letters of recommendation. and  SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD  
our way. Please call Colleen at  person to sit occasional evenings &  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  a list of previous debate  BROSKI BENI!FIT GOLF  
x2866 with R.S.V.P.  weekends fall '93. 1Oyr old boy &  219-291-7153.  HELP I I need 1 or 2 grad tix. if  achievements to the Vice President  TOURNAMENT ON SAT. MAY 8  
6yr mentally delayed happy girl.  you have extras call mike at 4­ of Student Affairs  OPEN TO ALL  
Dissertations. Theses,  Need car. 289-3536.  SPACIOUS 6. 2 & 1 BDRM  2148 or leave message at 284  University of Notre Dame  ·PUBLIC SIGN UPS AT THE PRO  
Term Papers  HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.  -5506 and let's make a deal.  315 Main Building  SHOP BEHIND THE ROCK  
Word Works Typing Service  Heyl I need a ride to NYC  GREAT RATES! AVAIL.  Notre Dame, IN 46556  -STUDENTS SIGN UP AT THE  
277-7406  area alter finals. Will pay  NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272-6306  LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE  
ILOST & FOUND I  expenses. Call Jess X2725 need a ride to N.Y.C/Iong island  SUBLET: 2 bedrm turtle creek townhse: Javier 634-3686  I NEED 2 RETURN FLIGHTS FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON  DEADLINE: May 1.  -GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS  
area this weekend. will help gas.  MAY23  SEEKING FEMALE NOTRE DAME  
LOST (still ... ): Pair of gold clip-on  tolls. etc. call mike x1594  CALL RICH, 631-5370  STUDENT ON UNITED FLIGHT  
earrings on Friday. 3/26. between  "Students"  215 FROM BOSTON TO CHICAGO  J U N 0 R S  
Zahm and the beach near the boat  Now renting 1300 sq It condos at  IN SEAT 19J ON 4/12/93. WANTED  
house. VERY IMPORT ANTI  The Southwestern Company from  College Park Condominiums. All  DESPERATELY SEEKING  TO SPEAK TO YOU AFTER  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  
Call Bridget at X2721  Nashville, TN is interviewing  units include:  GRADUATION TICKETS!!  FLIGHT. BUT WAS TOO SHY.  OF RESUME AND DISK  
students for summer work  -Security systems,  Gram and Gramp are coming  PLEASE CALL (502) 894·9994.  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ 
opportunites in sales. Students  -Hard wood floors,  and I need 2 tix. Please call  SEAT 20J.  MENT SERVICES FOR  
CD's "LOSr AT TONY'S OFF­ typically earn $4.000-$7,000 their  -All appliances,  Kristin at 4-4272 if you have  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
CAMPUS PARTY ON GOOD  first summer and gain tremendous  -Washer & dryer in unit,  any extras. and name your  
FRIDAY : Pink Floyd,  resume experience. Stop by  -Large balconies,  price.  Doctor and teacher will make  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
Ocean Blue. Queen  Dooley Room on first floor Lafortune  -Gas utilities,  dreams for your baby come true.  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY  for more info.. to set up interview  -Free covered parking,  Full-time parenting. Best of the city;  R  
COMPACT DISCS:  times, and meet other N.D. students  -2 large bedrooms,  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC  summers by the beach. Your baby  
I generously shared my house so  who have worked in past summers.  -2 full bathrooms,  GRADUATION(IN CASE OF RAIN).  rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace  s  
we could party. I never expected  Representatives there Tuesday,  -Only 1/4 mile from door of  PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399.  in winter, and by ocean waves in  
someone would steal my precious  April 20 from  Hesburgh library.  summer. Art, music, the best  
CD's.  4:00PM· 10:00 PM.  For appt. -272-0691 or see Off­ 1-WY TICKET:  education, endless love. Call  HELP! I need ride to Madison, WI  
Call me naive. but llrust a person  COME HEAR ABOUT ITt  Campus Housing office.  S.B. ->ANCHORAGE,  Franny or Stephen collect.  weekend of 4/23. Will help w/ gas  
until he or she breaks that trust. I  ALASKA • $200  (212) 369-2597.  & tolls. Please call Shannon at  
work hard for the money I earn and the CD's I buy. Please examine  Child care provider needed in my  FOR SALE  MAY 31-CALL DAN @4552 OR 631-4308  X2822  
your conscience and ask if what you  Granger home.  Hey 9th dwarf-The Easter Bunny!  
did was lair to me. Hopefully, you will see justice like the thief who  20-25 hrs/wk. now through June 8 & 30-35 hrs/wk through summer.  ALLSTATE  PERSONAL  This weekend was AWESOME (but you are better!) I have faith in you  Need a ride to South Florida area alter senior week.  
died with Jesus. I am not angry .  Call 271-1638  and am very proud of you. "Right  Will helped pay for gas and  
just disappointed.  CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU  here, right now: Love comes  drive if necessary.  
Please call Tony with info x3603  Need mature part time sitter  QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  walking in!" I am in love with you.  Call William @ 4·1961.  
for 11 mo. old. Days & occas­ COST-CUTIING DISCOUNTS:  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  too, Domer, and will be forever! Call  
LOST  sional evenings. Mom's work  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  me tonight at 3174954759. I will see  
schedule is flexible. Miami Trails  . GOOD STUDENT  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  you soon!  
area.  PREFERRED DRIVER  SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD  
LOST-Pair of Brown Topsiders on  south Fellows St.  ECONOMY CAR  BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF  
Stepan Courts April 1, if found call  Call 291-7286, leave msg.  AIR BAG  ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE­ ANTOSTAL ANTOSTAL  TOURNAMENT! !I  
X4600  ANTI·LOCK BRAKES  Give yourself, your baby and us a  TRIVIA TRIVIA TRIVIA TRIVIA  
PRO TENNIS RACQUET & VCR,  brighter future! We are a loving,  SATURDAY MAY 8  
Found:  CALL8562  JOHN DAVENPORT.ChFC  secure, Catholic. Caucasian couple.  winners receive ANTOSTAL  OPEN TO ALL  
4·17-93 women's ring found in D2  289-1993  Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616)  T-SHIRTS and CUPS  
parking lot. Call Maureen @ 4-4711  WANTED TO BUY: dorm size  629-9037  rules:  SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN  
to claim  refrigerator (1 or 1&1/2 cubic It). Will  OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  1 . place answers to the questions  BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH  
- WANTED .I INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT- pay cash. Call Tim 631·7646 from 8-4.30,M-F 'I__F_O_R_R_E_N_T---,  ND Ski Team T-Shirts Only $10!1 Call John at x1160 1·WY TCKT MAY 17  Are you interested in living in DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon @ 271-1938.  below on a piece of paper 2. include your name and telephone number 3. turn into box at LaFortune Information Desk by 6pm same day  YOUR DORM REP GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!!  
S. BND to SAN JOSE  4. 10 winners will be drawn at  
Make money teaching basic  SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  $200 obo Julie x2762  Adopt: we are truly loving couple  random from correct entries  
conversational English abroad.  bdrms, close to campus, safe  who can bring love and happiness  received  play play play play play play  
Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­ neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  91 GEO Storm GSI, 17Kmi, 5 spd,  to your white newborn. We offer  
$4,000+ per month. Many provide  utilities. Call Monica  AIC, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277­ financial security and a great future  TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA antost  
room & board + other benefits! No  232·2794.  3956.  in our oceanside home.  Tuesday's 1rivia:  at TRIVIA antostal TRIVIA ant  
previous training or teaching  Medical/legal expenses covered. 1­ •••1. WHAT TEAM HAS MORE  
certificate required. For International  2 BDRM, 2 BATH. OAKHILL  DESK for sale-25$. mike @  800-438-6599 eves.  CAREER VICTORIES THAN ND IN  play play play play play play  
Employment program, call the  CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL  x2148  COLLEGE FOOTBALL HISTORY?  I\IVV\IV\I\/\I'  
International Employment Group:  YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277­ J u N 0 R S  ...2. NAME THE MEMBERS OF  
(206) 632·1146 ext. J5584.  4155.  THE "FOUR HORSEMEN"  JULIE ROBINSON. HAPPY 21ST  
LIVING OFF-CAMPUS?  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  BACKFIELD (1922·1924)?  TODAY-SURPRISE ON THURS!  
OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT!  NEED FURNITURE?  OF RESUME AND DISK  ...3. WHAT WAS ND'S FIRST  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  1 Br w/lolt. 2 Bth, fireplace,  WE HAVE IT ALLI!  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ BOWL GAME?  
-fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  WID. garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill  CALL 273-2180  MENT SERVICES FOR  ...4. WHAT PRO TEAM DID ARA  JULIE ROBINSON, HAPPY 21ST  
canneries or $4000+/month on  or Caroline at  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  PARSEGHIAN PLAY FOR?  TODAY-SURPRISE ON THURS!  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  317-297·8485.  FOR SALE  ...5. WHO WAS ND'S FIRST HEAD  
Room & Board! Over 8000  BED, DESK, CHEST OF  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  FOOTBALL COACH?  
openings. No experience  Turtle Creek townhouse  DRAWERS, LAMPS, COUCH,  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  JULIE ROBINSON, HAPPY 21ST  
necessary. Male or Female. For  6/1-mid-Aug.  RECLINERS, CHAIRS, ETC. VERY  R  antostal trivia antostal trivia an  TODAY-SURPRISE ON THURSI  
employment program call 1·206·  Furnished -$400/mo  LOW PRICES-MUST SELL!  MNIMNV\NVVVV'NI  
545-4155 extA5584  Matt 634·3332.  273-2699-DARIN  s  


-----·~ 
Tuesday, April 20, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Houston: 24, San Antonio. AWAY (2): April 
Kiel, quarterback. 22, Portland: 25, Denver. HOCKEY AMERICAN LEAGUE NBA Playoff Racea 
EASTERN CONFERENCEEaat Dlvlalon HOUSTON (4)-HOME (2): April22, 

National Hockey League Minnesota: 24, Dallas. AWAY (2): April19, FLORIDA PANTHERS-Named Bill w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away w L Pet GB 
Boston 10 3 .7~-7-3 won3 6-1 4-2 y-NewYork 56 22 .718 
.705 Phoenix: 25, San Antonio. Torrey president. 
Detroit 7 5 .583 21/2 7-3 Lost 1 5-1 2-4 x-Chicago 55 23 1 51 27 .654 5 SEATTLE (4)-HOME (2): April19, San COLLEGEToronto 7 5 .583 2 1/2 6-4 Won 1 4-2 3-3 x -Cleveland .570 11 1/2 Antonio; 23, LA Lakers. AWAY (2): April22, NCAA-Appointed Gary Sojka to the
New York 6 6 .500 3 1/2 5-5 Lost 2 3-3 3-3 x-Boston 45 34 Milwaukee 4 5 .444 4 4-5 Won 2 2-2 2-3 x-New Jersey 43 36 .544 131/2 
LA Clippers: 25, Golden State. special committee to review student­3-7 Lost 1 4-3 1-5 Charlotte 41 38 .519 151/2 PORTLAND (4)-HOME (2): April20, athlete welfare, access and equity:Cleveland 5 8 .385 5 Golden State: 22, Phoenix. AWAY (2): April McKinley Boston and Andrea Seger to theBaltimore 4 7 .364 5 4-6 Won 1 2-3 2-4 Indiana 40 38 .513 16 23, Sacramento: 25, LA Clippers. committee on athletic certification: andWest Division Atlanta 40 38 .513 16 SAN ANTONIO (4)-HOME (2): April22, Larrye Easley to the men's and women's w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away 18 Denver: 25, Houston. AWAY (2): April19, tennis committee. 
Texas 8 3 .727-7-3 Won 2 4-2 4-1 Detroit 38 40 .487 
Seattle: 24, Phoenix. CINCINNATI-Extended the contractCalifornia 6 4 .600 1 1/2 6-4 Lost 1 3-2 3-2 Orlando 38 40 .487 16 
3-3 3-2 x-clinched playoff berth UTAH (4)-HOME (2): April21, LA Laurie Pirtle, women's basketball coach,Minnesota 6 5 .545 2 6-4 Lost 1 Chicago 5 7 .417 3 1/2 4-6 Lost 3 2-3 4
'3-y-clinched division title Lakers: 23, Golden State. AWAY (2): April through the 1994-95 season. Seattle 5 7 .417 3 1/2 4-6 Won 1 3-2 2-5 
Game• Remaining 20, Sacramento: 25, Minnesota. MANHATTAN-Named Dan Mecca NEW YORK (4)-HOME (2): April 21, LA CUPPERS (3)-HOME (2): April22, men's and women's track and field coach,
Oakland 4 6 .400 3 1/2 4-6 Lost 4 4-2 0-4 Kansas City 3 9 .250 5 1/2 3-7 Won 1 1-5 2-4 New Jersey: 25, Chicago. AWAY (2): Apri120, Seattle; 25, Portland. AWAY (1 ): April 20, effective July 1 . Miami; 23, Philadelphia. Dallas. NATIONAL LEAGUE CHICAGO (4)-HOME (2): April20, LA LAKERS (4)-HOME (1): April24, NHL PLAYOFFS East Division 
Philadelphia; 22, Detroit. AWAY (2): Apri123, Sacramento. AWAY (3): Apri120, Minnesota: w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Charlotte: 25, New York. 21,U1ah;23,Seattle. 
Maple Leafs-Red Wings, Suma 
CLEVELAND (4)-HOME (2): April 20, 

Philadelphia 9 3 .750-7-3 Won 1 5-1 4-2 Toronto 1 1 1-3 
Pittsburgh 7 5 .583 2 5-5 Lost 3 3-2 4-3 Detroit: 25, Philadelphia. AWAY (2): April21, TRANSACTIONS Detroit 1 4 1-6 
5 .583 2 6-4 Lost 3 4-2 3-3 Indiana: 23, Boston. 

St. Louis 7 First Period-1, Detroit, Yzerman 1 
.545 2 1/2 5-5 Lost 1 2-3 4-2 BOSTON (3)-HOME (2): April 21, BASEBALL

New York 6 5 (Gallant, Ciccarelli), 4:48. 2, Toronto, Cullen 
National League · 3-3 3-3 Orlando: 23, Cleveland. AWAY (1): April25, 
Chicago 6 6 .500 3 5-5 Lost 1 1 (Clark, Gill), 10:44. Penalties-Pearson,
FLORIDA MARLINS-Placed Bret
Washington. NEW JERSEY (3) -HOME (1 ): April 23, Montreal 6 6 .500 3 5-5 Won 1 3-3 3-3 Tor (high-sticking), 4:53: Macoun, Tor 

Barberie, infielder, on the 15-day disabled 
Florida 4 8 .333 5 3-7 Lost 1 2-4 2-4 (cross-checking), 6:09; Pearson, Tor 
list.
Orlando. AWAY (2): April21, New York; 25, 

Weat Division (roughing), 8:27; Primeau, Del (roughing),
LOS ANGELES DODGERs-claimed 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Detroit. 8:27: Probert, Del (high-sticking), 10:53.
Steve Parris, pitcher, off waivers from the.615-7-3 Won 1 5-2 3-3 CHARLOTTE (3)-HOME (2): April 21, 
San Francisco 8 5 Second Period--3, Detroit, Sheppard 1
Philadelphia Phillies and assigned him to2-4 5-1 Milwaukee: 23, Chicago. AWAY (1): April 24, 
Houston 7 5 .583 1/2 7-3 Won 1 (Probert, Coffey), 5:44 (pp). 4, Detroit, Burr 1
San Antonio of the Texas League. 
Atlanta 7 7 .500 11/2 4-6 Lost 1 4-3 3-4 Milwaukee. (Racine), 6:42 (sh). 5, Detroit, Chiasson 1
BASKETBALL
INDIANA (4)-HOME (2): April21, 

Los Angeles 6 7 ,462 2 4-6 Won 3 3-3 3-4 (Coffey), 11:00 (pp). 6, Detroit, Howe 1 
National Basketball Asaociatlon
Cleveland: 24, Miami. AWAY (2): April20, 

San Diago 5 7 .417 2 1/2 5-5 Won 3 3-4 2-3 (Yzerman, Drake), 14:46. 7, Toronto, 
NEW JERSEY NET5-Signed Dave
Colorado 4 7 .364 3 4-6 Lost 1 3-3 1-4 Atlanta: 23, Detroit. 
Gilmour 1 (Borschevsky, Ellett), 19:59 (pp).

Hoppen, center, to a 10-day contract. 
Cincinnati 3 9 .250 4 1/2 2-8 Won 1 2-4 1-5 ATLANTA (4)-HOME (2): April20, Penaltie&-Gilmour, Tor (holding), 4:31: Continental Baaketball Aaaociation
indiana: 23, Milwaukee. AWAY (2): April20, 

AMERICAN LEAGUE Kozlov, Det (hooking), 5:56: Osborne, Tor 
GRAND RAPIDS HOOP$-ActivatedWashington: 24, Orlando. 
Monday'• Gamea (elbowing), 9:22: Chiasson, Del (cross­
Reggie Jordan, forward, from injured
Boston 6, Chicago 0 checking), 12:24: Burr, Del (tripping), 18:50. 
reserve. Placed Calvin Talford, guard, onSeattle 1 0, Detroit 6 DETROIT (4)-HOME (2): April23, Third Period-S, Detroit, Racine 1 injured reserve.
Toronto 7. Cleveland 1 Indiana: 25, New Jersey. AWAY (2): April20, (Primeau, Drake), 5:10.9, Toronto, LefebvreFIGURE SKATINGCleveland: 22, Chicago. 
Tueaday'a Gamea 1 (Cullen, Pearson), 7:45. Penalties­
United States Figure Skating Association 
Texas (Rogers 1-0) at Detroit (Wells 2-0), 7:05p.m. ORLANDO (4)-HOME (2): April 20, Racine, Del (cross-checking), 2:45: 
USFSA-Named Jerry Lace executive
Chicago (Alvarez 0-0) at Baltimore (McDonald 1-1), 7:35p.m. Washington: 24, Adanla. AWAY (2): April21, Pearson, Tor, major-game misconduct 
director and Robert Crowley managing
Milwaukee (Navarro 0-0) at Minnesota (Banks 1-0), 8:05p.m. Boston: 23, New Jersey. (high-sticking), 7:57; Lefebvre, Tor (high­
director.

Toronto (Stottlemyre 2-0) at Kansas City (Appier 0-2). 8:35p.m. sticking), 8:19: Ciccarelli, Det (high-sticking), 
FOOTBALL

WESTERN CONFERENCE National Football LeagueBoston (Clemens 2-0) at Seattle (Cummings 0-2), 10:05 p.m. 8:19; Clark, Tor (elbowing), 19:13. 
w L Pet GB

New Yorll {WICkman 2-0) at Oakland (S.Davis 0-2), 10:05 p.m. Shots on goal-Toronto 5-9-9-23. Detroit
NEW ORLEANS SAINTs-Agreed to 
Cleveland (Mesa 0-0) at California (Sanderson 1-0), 10:05 p.m. z-Phoenix 60 18 .7~ 13-8-12--33.
terms with Richard Cooper, offensive NATIONAL LEAGUE Power-play Opportunities-Toronto 1 of 5:
y-Houston 53 25 .679 7 

tackle, on a three-year oontract. 
x-Seattle 52 26 .667 8

Tuesday's Games Detroit 2 of 6.
Canadian Football LeagueAtlanta (G.Maddux 1-1) at Florida (Bowen 1-0), 7:35p.m. Goalies-Toronto, Potvin, 0-1-0 (33 shots-
x-Portland 49 29 .628 11 

OTTAWA ROUGH RIDER5-SignedLos Angeles (Candiotti 0-1) at Montreal (Nabhoiz 0-0), 7:35p.m. 27 saves). Detroit, Cheveidae, 1-0-0 (23­
x-San Antonio 47 31 .603 

Tony Champion, wide receiver. Sen Diego (Eiland 0-1) at Philadelphia (Greene 1-0), 7:35p.m. 20).
13 

SACRAMENTO GOLD MINERS­Cincinnati (Belcher 0-1) at Pittsburgh (Tomlin 0-0), 7:35p.m. x-Utah 45 33 .577 15 A-19,875.
Signed Steven Lee,. defensive end, and Sen Francisco (Swift 0-1) at New York (Fernandez 1-0), 7:40 p.m. x-LA Clippers 39 40 .494 21 1/2 Referee-Andy vanHellmond. Linesmen­
Steve Gabbard and Matt McCall, offensive 
41 .474 23

Houston (Portugal t-O) at Chicago (Harkey 1-0), 8:05p.m. x-LA Lakers 37 Shane Heyer, Randy Mitton. 
tackles. 

Colorado (B Smith 1-1) at St Louis (Arocha 2-0), 8:35p.m. z-clinched overall best record 







CSE 332L 05 4841 GOVT 3160 01 4599 MGT 350 01 2457 ROSP 236 01 0239 CSE 471 01 3626 GOVT 342 02 0893 MI 318 01 3475 ROSP 237 01 0734
~'--ORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK 
ECON 223T 04 4527 GOVT 342T 01 3289 MI 333 01 4601 ROSP 237 02 0966
~'--OURSES ADDED 
ECON 224T 01 4533 GOVT 342T 02 3290 MI 432C 01 4753 ROSP 310 01 3020 ECON 224T 02 4534 GOVT 342T 03 3291 MI 530 01 4604 ROSP 318 01 3476BA 230 07 5179 -Statistics in Business: 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 1:15­
ECON 224T 03 4535 GOVT 343T 01 0827 MLJA 221 01 2469 ROSP 328 01 3021
2:05; Any Calculus course is prerequisite 

ECON 224T 04 4536 GOVT 403 01 4076 MUS 2200 01 2522 ROSP 483 01 4742 ECON 417 01 4458 GOVT 403T 01 4080 MUS 2200 03 2521 RU 373 01 0833 ECON 443 01 1788 GOVT 445 01 4568 MUS 2240 01 4755 sc 141L 01 3450 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS ARHI 483 01 4474 ECON 447 01 4559 GOVT 459 01 4457 MUS 226 01 2524 soc 232 02 3331 OF Z:OO P.M.1[19[93 
ARST 231S 01 1436 ECON 484 01 3619 GOVT 478 01 4968 MUS 230 01 4756 soc 242 02 4159 
ARST 241S 01 3297 EOUC 201F 06 8406 GOVT 486 01 3698 PHIL 201 06 2609 soc 332 01 0509 
ARST 245S 01 3566 EOUC 324 17 8417 GSC 220 01 3905 PHIL 201 07 2610 soc 415 01 3938
ACCT 232 02 1284 
ARST 247S 01 3209 EOUC 340 18 8418 GSC 315 01 4638 PHIL 201 11 3346 soc 486 01 4571
ACCT 371 03 1293 
ARST 325S 01 1442 EOUC 404 30 8430 GSC 430 01 3940 PHIL 201 16 0088 soc 490 01 3043
ACCT 371 04 1290 
AS 411 02 1489 EE 222T 01 1810 GSC 495A 01 4646 PHIL 220 01 3904 S1V 370 01 3650
ACCT 371 05 1292 
BA 230 02 0572 EE 498B 01 4914 HESB 450 02 0414 PHIL 222 03 0768 S1V 454 01 3561
ACCT 372 01 1296 BA 230 03 1490 ENOL 301A 01 1994 HIST 308A 01 3646 PHIL 224 02 4760 THEO 200 07 1252ACCT 380 01 1297 
BA 362 01 1496 ENOL 301B 01 0604 HIST 326A 01 3463 PHIL 225 01 3662 THEO 224 01 0710
ACCT 479 01 1304 
BA 363 02 1843 ENOL 301B 02 4607 HIST 361 01 4442 PHIL 232 01 4131 THEO 246 01 1155AFAM 359 01 4430 BA 363 03 1499 ENOL 310 02 0642 HIST 370 01 3649 PHIL 233 01 4762 THEO 250 01 1105AFAM 371 01 3652 
BA 363 04 1498 ENOL 312 01 1998 HIST J71A 01 5032 PHIL 233 02 4763 THEO 253 01 1150
AFAM 3848 01 3825 BA 363 05 1500 ENOL 314E 01 3776 HIST 393 01 3312 PHIL 239 01 2189 THEO 255 01 0492AFAM 393 01 4431 BA 363 06 5052 ENOL 319A 01 2000 HIST 395 01 0534 PHIL 242 01 5101 THEO 255 02 4818AFAM 425 01 4432 
BA 391 01 1212 ENOL 319A 02 2001 HIST 430 01 4443 PHIL 242 02 5102 THEO 258 01 0212
AFAM 455 01 3886 
BA 391 02 1004 ENOL 322 01 2002 HIST 458 01 4116 PHIL 246 01 2620 THEO 264 01 4169
AFAM 486 01 4434 
BA 490 OJ 1507 ENOL 327 01 4609 HIST 458A 01 4115 PHIL 253 01 3666 THEO 265 01 1147
AL 211 02 1330 
BA 490 04 1506 ENOL 328 01 3159 HIST 473 01 4686 PHIL 261 01 2622 THEO 266 01 3072
AL 211 05 1333 BIOS 304 01 1519 ENOL 333 01 4610 HIST 47JA 01 4687 PHIL 261 02 0279 THEO 266 02 1146AL 211 06 1334 BIOS 304L 01 1520 ENOL 340 01 3431 HIST 474 01 3495 PHIL 263 01 4135 THEO 281 01 3675AL 211 10 1338 
BIOS 304L 02 1521 ENOL 384B 01 3824 HIST 474A 01 3494 PHIL 265 01 2623 THEO 282 01 4819
AL 211 15 1343 BIOS 344L 01 1523 ENOL J92B 01 4612 liPS 315P 01 5033 PHIL 315 01 4765 THEO 290 01 0057AL 211 19 1347 BIOS 344L 02 1524 ENOL 399A 01 3688 liPS 320 01 3552 PHYS 221L 05 2657 THEO 395 01 3375
AMST 302E 01 4588 BIOS 344L 03 0195 ENOL 415Z 01 4616 liPS 437 01 4970 PHYS 221L 06 2658 THTR 135 48 9748AMST 303E 01 4589 
BIOS 344L 04 0194 ENOL 426A 01 4617 liPS 584 01 3620 PSY 211A 01 2780
AMST 354H 01 4699 
BIOS 401 01 2145 ENOL 434Z 01 4620 LAW 601 01 2236 PSY 341 02 3179 COURSES THAT WILL
AMST 365H 01 4700 AMST 367H 01 4702 REOPEN AT Z:OO P.M.
BIOS 463 01 0582 ENOL 435A 01 4580 LAW 603 02 2240 PSY 341 OJ 3178 CAPP 315 01 1603 ENOL 440E 01 4621 LAW 616 01 2251 PSY 341T 02 4923
AMST 368H 01 470J 4[20[93
CAPP 361 .01 1604 ENOL 453 01 3693 LAW 631A 01 2256 PSY 342 01 2784
AMST 386H 01 4704 
CAPP 416 01 0497 ENOL 466A 01 4605 LAW 6318 01 2257 PSY 355 01 0267
AMST 387H 01 4705 ACCT 371 04 1290
CHEG 459 02 1642 ENOL 470 01 4626 LAW 6310 01 2259 PSY 403 01 4788
AMST 388H 01 4706 AMST JOJE 01 4589
CHEM 119L 01 3581 ENOL 470A 01 4993 LAW 676 01 2265 PSY 421 01 0755
AMST 401E 01 4590 BA 363 04 1498 
CHEM 119L 02 3583 ENOL 471 01 4994 LAW 679 01 3656 PSY 453 01 4790
AMST 402E 01 4591 BA 363 06 5052
CHEM 333 01 1683 ENOL 480 01 4628 MARK 350 01 2284 PSY 454 01 0754
AMST 403E 01 4592 COMM 210 12 9712
CHEM 333L 01 0183 ENOL 485B 01 4629 MARK 350 02 2285 PSY 455 01 0753
AMST 404E 01 4593 ENOL 327 01 4609
CHEM 333L 02 1684 ENOL 495A 01 1223 MARK 370 02 2287 PSY 462 01 4791
AMST 430 01 0500 ENOL 480 01 4628
CHEM 33JL 03 1685 FIN 231 02 0571 MARK 476 01 2291 RLST 201 15 9515
ANTH 310 01 3492 FIN 361 04 2042
CLAS 441 01 1712 FIN 360 01 2033 MARK 495 01 3421 RLST 235 31 9531
ANTH 328 01 3480 liPS 315P 01 50J3
COMM 103 02 9702 FIN 360 02 20J4 MATH 221 01 2338 RLST 235 33 9533
ANTH 329 01 3734 LAW 616 01 2251 
COMM 103 OJ 970J FIN 360 03 2035 MATH 325 01 2353 RLST 235 35 9535
ANTH 329 02 4444 MARK 495 01 3421
COMM 103 04 9704 FIN 360 04 2036 MATH 335 02 1597 RLST 251 43 9543
ANTH 359 01 4447 PHIL 246 01 2620 
COMM 103 05 9705 FIN 360 05 2039 MATH 438 01 2359 RLST 339 51 9551
ANTH 405 01 3992 PHIL 261 01 2622 
COMM 103 06 9706 FIN 361 03 2046 MBA 601 01 3984 ROFR 310 01 2982
ANTH 411 01 4450 PHYS 221L 06 2658 
COMM 210 12 9712 FIN 361 04 2042 ME 331L 01 4867 ROFR 310 02 1254
ANTH 431 01 4451 RU 373 01 0833 
COTH 210 01 0344 FIN 376 03 . 2050 ME 331L 04 4870 ROFR 371 01 3472
ANTH 431A 01 4985 S1V 370 01 3650 
COTH 373 01 4518 FIN 470 01 2060 ME 331L 05 4871 ROFR 413 01 4731
ANTH 454 01 3560 THEO 258 01 0212 
COTH 377 01 3610 GE 475 01 3865 ME 334 01 0167 ROFR 485 01 4729
ARCH 443 01 1400 THEO 290 01 0057 
COTH 435 01 4520 GE 575 01 3866 ME 334L 01 0165 ROIT 103 01 2986
ARCH 543 01 1403 THTR 135 48 9748 
COTH 440 01 4521 GEOS 141L OJ 4918 ME 469 01 0684 ROSP 103 07 3007
ARCH 598 02 0401 
CSE 331 01 0675 GEOS 459 01 4854 MGT 231 04 2449 ROSP 234 01 0241
ARHI 169 01 1409 
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, April 20, 1993 
Baseball sweeps past Duquense SPORTS BRIEFS 
will practice at 4:30 p.m. every By JENNY MARTEN retired the next 14 while walk­(13-15) in a doubleheader day until the end of the year behind Stepan Center. Big Ten Associate Sports Editor ing none and striking out four. which starts at 1 p.m. at Jake is this weekend. All are welcome. 
The grueling schedule con­
tinues. 
The 24th-ranked Notre Dame 
baseball team (21-8) disposed 
of Duquesne in a doubleheader 
yesterday and looks towards a 
doubleheader against Toledo at 
Jake Kline Field at 1 p.m. to­
day. 
The schedule is starting to wear on the players as the in­jured list grows. Eddie Hartwell didn't play yesterday after suf­fering a groin pull on Sunday while pitcher Marty DeGraff went down yesterday with an elbow injury which could be serious. 
Greg Layson is still recovering 
from a foot injury and Paul 
Failla is banged up from 
doubletiming football and base­
ball. Pitcher Craig Allen is out 
for the season. 
"I'm concerned about the in­
juries and I hope we can 
bounce back," said Notre Dame 
coach Pat Murphy. 
"I don't know how we're 
going to do it. All we can do is 
go day by day and try out best 
to win each one." 
One thing helping the Irish is 
that the hitters are hot. Notre 
Dame has ten batters with av­
erages over .300 including eight 
who who have started 23 or 
more games. 
Irish hitters had a field day 
yesterday as· Notre Dame won 
the first game 12-8 in eight in­
nings and the second 11-0 in 
five innings by the mercy rule. 
Senior Eric Danapilis, who is 
hitting a whopping .500 on the 
season and has an 11-game 
hitting streak, went 4 for 5 on 
the day with two stolen bases, 
three runs scored and a two­
run homer. 
In the first game, the Dukes 
tied the game up at 7-7 with six 
runs in the seventh sending the 
game into extra innings, but the 
Irish brought live runs across 
the plate in the eighth for the 
12-8 win. 
Matt Haas went 3 for 5 with 
four runs batted in, a triple and 
two stolen bases while Craig 
DeSensi hit 2 for 4 with three 
RHis and a double as the Irish 
amassed 13 hits and eight 
stolen bases in the game. 
Haas who raised his average 
to .304 felt he is hitting better. 
"I have a bad habit of jump­
ing at the ball and I've been 
working with (Irish assistant 
coach Gary Tuck) at calming 
down," said Haas. 
DeGraff (4-1) took the win with no hits and one earned run in 1.2 innings on the mound in relief of starter Tim Kraus (5.1 .innings, 5 ER, 5 K). A.J. Jones and Eric Danapilis also saw time on the hill in the first 
game. 
In the eighth inning, the Irish 
scored all live runs with two 
outs. Failla and Layson opened 
up the rally with walks to set up 
DeSensi's full-count double off 
the centerfield fence. 
Topham kept things going 
with another walk. Robbie Hirk 
chipped in an RBI single which 
Haas followed with a two-run 
single. 
Topham unofficially tied the 
Notre Dame record for walks in 
a game with five in the 12-8 
win. 
The s.econd game was all AI 
Walania as the Irish won an­
other 11-0 contest by the mercy 
rule. 
Senior right-hander Walania 
(1-2) threw his fastball, his 
slider and his split finger fast­
ball for strikes to one-hit the 
Dukes while facing 15 batters, 
the minimum number for a five 
inning game. 
Walania gave up a hit to the 
first Duquesne batter and then 
"I was really happy today Kline Field. with the way I pitched espe­Toledo is led by outfielder cially because I've been strug­Trent Clark (.315), infielder gling this year. I finally pitched Brian Smith (.289, 10 RBI) and the way I'm capable of pitch­outfielder John Torok (.287, 12 ing," said Walania. RBI). As a team, the Rockets 
Layson (3 RBI, 3 runs, 2 SB) are hitting .251. went 3 for 3 with a double and The pitching staff is strong Haas knocked in two runs while with a team earned run average Topham notched a double. of 4.02 and nine pitchers with 
League-leading Notre Dame more than five wins. upped it's Midwestern Colle­Toledo most recently split a giate Conference record to 15-four-game series with Ohio 
1. after defeating Harvard 10-0 Today, the Irish face Toledo earlier in the season. 
Irish sneak back into Top 25 
By JENNY MARTEN Pepperdine (20) and South Associate Sports Editor Florida {25) while Georgia, Arkansas, San Diego, Old Do­
The Irish baseball team minion and Miami dropped out. jumped back into Baseball The Hurricanes had been America's Top-25 with a rank­ranked in 63 consecutive polls. ing of 24 after going undefeated Notre Dame coach Pat Mur­last week. phy is happy his team is ranked 
Notre Dame fell out of the poll again. after losing three of four to ''I'm glad we're back, but that Kentucky back in mid-March, (the rankings) is something we but rejoined the top-25 after can't concern ourselves about," 
winning doubleheaders against said Murphy's whose Irish have Cleveland State and Duquense won 11 straight. last week. The Texas A & M Aggies are 
Joining the Irish in the ascent at the top of the poll with a into the top-25 were Fresno 40-6 record for the second State (17), Tennessee (19), consecutive week. 

is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit resume and a 1-2 page personal statement to Meredith McCullough by 5 p.m., Friday, April 23. Contact Meredith at 239-5303 for more information. 
. ­

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 

Shakespeare 
and senior citizen discounts are available Wed., Thu. and Sun. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call: 
631~8128. 

Wed. April 21 -Sat. April 24 at 8:10pm Sun. April 25 at p 

3:10pm 

WASHINGTON HALL 
Tuesday, April 20, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Bookstore down to 64 By BRYAN CONNOLLY and our defense set the tone for  Books'tore Basketball  
Sports Writer the game," said Bartoli, whose  F i n a I 6 4 T e a m s  
team was eliminated in the  
The twenty-second annual Round of 64 last year.  :IE!91J!!~..Y".~.i~.~-~ig~!Q~Illl.... *Corby's II  
Bookstore Basketball tourna­"There wasn't that much dis­ment concluded its two days of parity between the teams," he play in the Round of 128 yes­added. "It was a lot tougher terday with high intensity and than the score indicates." excitement but few actual "They're definitely a good upsets. team," said Turkish Prisoners Two Second 16 teams, All the captain Doug Descalzi. "I feel  ~!~~~~!:~~;~ =~ ~ : :: ) •::::_ : : : : ~~~~?:J~~ *Malicious Prosecution *BLACKJACK ~~!£:;~:'-"~':~~= : ~ :~ ~ { = = : : : -~:~~~~i~1:t~  
President's Men and Turkish they should have been seeded Prisoners, were ousted from the as well." tourney Sunday, inflating the number of defeated seeds to Although the Round of 64  ~-~i!~!:l.r..................................... *Pale Riders Ice Cream Headaches ~ ····--········ • :::::::W~:~~~~:;!::S.!~~I~~~Y.Aaif"tia5.i\iii.i=ii9ii.Ci5··-········ Joint ~~~~t~~[~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~ ............................. ~ :::::~:~Y.:g~~:~~:~:~:h.e.e.!~::.:::  
seven. doesn't officially commence All the President's Men, cap­until this afternoon, one  :F.l9h..~i.n_gK~rD.~(~.................. *H-A-R-D-K-0-R-E !3.rif1ging_t~~..f'IJI1.~.............. .. • • :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::)i~~~:~  
tained by University president rescheduled contest took place Monk Malloy, fell 21-19 to at Stepan last night.  I.t:\~.~~tr_ay_~~-§!!:1.(\J.............. Five Six Foot White Guys f.'i.Q~.f3.k_Y..~Il.t.A.~.r!lil19............. ~ ··········-··············-········-····· · ························-······-···· ~ ::T.~~:~:~?.~P.~!~~:~i:~~~~P.~~~P.~~  
Woody and Four Other Stiffs, a Powerful Top 16 squad second year team which lasted Corby's II outlasted the resilient  *The Hawk Will Never Die · The More We Win .... ·············--·································.. ---------·······-··---············-­... ·.·.·_·_·_·_·_-_·_·_·_·_·_-_-_·.·.·_·_·_s_·_-_h_._a_·_·~·-·!3·.-_5_._._o·_-_i_._i=_-_._u_··_;,_-_i<_·. ~~~=-119·he_tP.Y.€lr................. ,. ........................................, 4 ., Time to Fly Ill  
to the Round of 64 last year. Yo Mama's Cookies, 21-15. Facing a deficit of 17-14, Opening the second half down Woody and Four Other Stiffs re­11-3, the physically over­fused to give in by pulling off a matched Yo Mama's Cookies  Th~·Ch;i~··Miii~~-F~~-ci~b··· ~ ··-·-·····················-·· After the Final ·················-·····-···-···· t5~~:~:~:.:i~!:i3;;d:.:~:;~~:~~~~; ;·Eb~~y-Sid~·;i·ih~··[);;;.;~··· Sixtee~ Teams are *CorbY.'s I ih.~:~!~~P.:~~:~P.::::::::::::::::: ~ ······-··············-···-····· ~ee.!::!:d, all ····-·-··········---··-····-·-·­~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~9::g:1:~~  
7-2 run and scoring the final took advantage of its superior four points of the game. speed and quickness to outscore  St. Buttafuocco reseeded and all Sexual Chocolate ~;~~:~:iiii:~~i~:8.9~:Q~~~~::::::::. -···-·-··················-·····\ ~:':~~';,9J~l:~s ·····························-·· •::::::::::::~:~~i:~9~i:~~~~~~  
"I thought we had a chance," Corby's II 12-10 in the second said team member Jason half. •  B~~~~;.~~;;;::::::::::::::::::::: •...............................··-~c~rdlngly. ·-·······-···········-·········· • ::::::::::::::::::::!~}~~~~:.€~~  
Woodward, "but I was a little Corby's II, however, relied on surprised we pulled it out. We football player Mark Zataveski's  _;;~;~:~~~-~~~~f;~~~-;~i.~---.-~ ····--·-···-·········-···-··············~ ~·--·····--···-·-·········-············· ~ :~~:~:~;:;;;::~;~~;~~;~;;;;;;.  
played together as a team." strong inside play to maintain Led by captain Chris Bartoli's its lead and hold on for victory. nine points, Hot Fudge: As "They're definitely a good Sticky As They Wanna Be team and their height gave us  *Rhythm & Darts *Smooth Momentum ~f~t!1~~:~:: ::: :) ( ~:: :: :~-:~~~i?~~  
strongly surpassed Turkish some problems," said Yo Prisoners, 21-13. Mama's Cookies player Chris  • Denotes a Team Seeded in the Top Sixteen Teams •• Denotes a Team Seed In the Second Sixteen  
"We shot the ball really well Hammond.  The Observer I Chris Mullins  
Happy 20th Birthday Janet Flynn  ND PRE-LAW SOCIETY  
l"'"  Spring Meeting Tuesday, April20 Cushing Hall 7 p.In. All members are encouraged to attend.  
Love, Dad, Mom & Jack  Es ecially important.for Seniors to be.  
Looks like a Vivarin night. The big one's only 12 hours away. You could have paid more attention in class, but tonight you've gotta cram. First, you better keep those eyes from closing. Revive with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, it helps keep you awake and mentally alert for hours. So when your most difficult problem to solve is how to stay awake ... make it a Vivarin night! Co s Revive with VIVARIN~ Use only as directed. Contains caffeine equivalent to 2 cups ot cottee. ~1993 Smi'thKUne Beecham.ln.  

-~----------­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 20,1993 
-~---~~­

Belles run, jump and throw to 5th
Women's golf finishes season strong 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
The Irish women's golf team had its highest finish of the year this past weekend, ending its season with a strong fourth place showing at the Purdue Invitational. The Irish were led by junior Crissy Klein, whose two day total of 158 earned her seventh place individually. 
Coach Tom Hanlon had ex­pected a good showing at Pur­due this weekend, and his predictions proved to be accu­rate, as the team's 36-hole total of 663 placed them behind Wisconsin (621 ), Illinois State (638), and Illinois (640), all of which are respected regional powers. 
Klein's tournament of two consecutive 79s marked it as her best of the season. "I was really encouraged by Crissy's performance. We are definitely going to rely on her next year," noted Hanlon. 
Senior Kathy Phares ended her college career on a high note, using a two day total of 161 to earn a ninth place finish. 
"She's been my most consis­tent golfer for four years, and is really an outstanding person. I hate to see her go next year," said Hanlon of this year's cap­tain. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the rest of the team was unable to come through with good enough rounds to place the squad higher in the standings. 
After Klein and Phares, Katy Cooper was the next highest finisher, carding a 171. 
The team was rounded out by Denise Paulin (177), Katie Shannon (178), and Sara Ruzzo (191). 
The lack of consistency after 
Courtesy of NO Sports Information Senior captain Kathy Phares led the Irish in her last tournament. 
the first two spots has been a The season was highlighted problem for the Irish all year by victories over Big Ten long. powers such as Iowa, Michigan 
"We threw away a lot of and Michigan State, and shots, and the puts just weren't regional powers such as dropping. Our short game was Southern Illinois, Nebraska, and a problem," explained Hanlon. Kansas. 
The fact that the Irish can 
Reflecting on the season as a now compete with these pro­whole, Hanlon was frustrated grams, and that they are closer by the inconsistency, but en­to knocking off traditional pow­couraged on the whole as to ers Indiana and Ohio State are how the team fared against tributes to how far the program tougher competition. has come in its short existence. 

By CHERYL GILLILAND Sports Writer 
After struggling to score ear­lier in the season, the Saint Mary's track team proved to be a strong competitor on Satur­day at the Carthage Invitational. 
The Belles placed fifth out of eleven teams by scoring 55 points. University of Wisconsin­Parkside won the meet with 201 points. 
"This was a very competitive meet because most of the teams there were Division IJI," said head coach Larry Szczechowski. "We were happy with everyone's performances. A lot of people set personal records and season's best." 
An outstanding performance came from freshman Michelle Wenner. who placed third in the 1500 meter run with a PR of 5:02.59. 
"It was a really great day. Everyone ran hard·and did well." Wenner said. She also laced fourth in the 800 meter 
run and helped the 1600 meter relay team to a fourth place lin­ish. She contributed a team high of 11 points for the day. 
Senior Jennifer Kaniecki, a first year track member, placed third in the 10,000 meter run and set aPR of 48:36.00. 
Team co-captain Cheryl For­tunak placed fifth in the 400 meter and tied for third place in the high jump. She said that the team's enthusiasm at­tributed to their strong finish. 
"A lot of people were looking forward to this meet, and we're looking forward to our last meet next week," she said. 
Saint Mary's also was also strong in the field events. Joann Weed finished second in the triple jump with a jump of 30' 5 1/2" and sixth in the shot put. Amy Mertz placed fifth in the discus and sixth in the javelin. 
Jill Jusick was third in the long jump, and Karla Oselka placed fifth in the long jump and sixth in the triple jump. 

Happy Birthday Steven Charles! 
We're proud you're working toward your goal. 
Love, Mom, Dad & Kip 
April 20m 

An Tostal at SMC 
Tuesday, ApriI 2Qth 
Come kick off An Tostal on the campus of SMC! We promise adventure, fun, romance, and food! 
Our schedule of exciting events: 
3:00-6:00 Dunk it, darts, Shooting Gallery, Frisbee Toss, & Bottle Ring Toss Games on Library Green. Prizes available. 3:30-4:30 Papa John's Pizza, peppers, and breadstick eating contests in front of the dining hall. Have a friend sign you up at Haggar or come that day. 
3:30-4:30 Games of Skill and Chance. 4 teams of 2 will race canoes around the fountain-Beware of many surprises! 4 teams of 12 will test their strength in a Tug-o-War across the muck and water. Both events have sign ups in Haggar. Cash prizes awarded. 
4:30-6:30 Come picnic at SMC. We promise food, folks, and fun! Pick up a coex the day of at 4:00 in front of SMC Dining 
Hall. 3:00-8:00 Jump in the new & improved Jello pits near Angela. 6:00-8:00 Severinsen, an up and coming ND band will start rocking us into the night. 7:30-8:30 Come hear the trials and triumphs of 2 blind dates in Angela. 9:00-11:00 Rasta Rafiki will be the perfect Reggae end to a great day. Haggar Terrace. 
~---~------~ 
Today 
page 15 

Tuesday, April 20, 1993 



30 Sun. talk 61 Maternally akin phases" poet 33 Bates or Thicke 62 Instrument 
12 Title for Hess 13 Lulu 

------------18 Actor Nolte ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 Distaff 
23-of Forth 24 Nan j i ng 
nursemaid 25 Role for Sly 26 "Adam Bede" 
author 27lnsignia 
Orang," Klinger 
play 29 Attics 30 Pub drink 31 Poet's Muse 32 Radioactive 
element 34 Long-snouted omnivore 


JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATIERSON 
37 Atoll 38-Cabot, O'Neill hero 39 A Manipuri 
dance drama 45 Enjoyed the tub 46 Garfield's 
canine friend 47 Cornered 48 Photo finish 49"-boy!" 50 Wedge 
51 Garr of Hollywood 52 Tunisian port 53 Claudia­Johnson 54 Madre's brothers 
55 Sufficient, in poesy 56 Cross out 58 Morning 
moisture 59"-Ciear Day ..." 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 

Only Bernard, in the front row, had the nerve to laugh at Death. 
Take the keys 
Call a cab 
Take a stand 
Don•t drink and Drive. 

_.. 
... 






Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, April 20, 1993 
Softball making a strong pitch 
By TEDS PETERSON "She had never done that before and was a little Sports Writer apprehensive. But the weather conditions were warm enough. and we thought that it would work The Notre Dame softball team's two victories on against LaSalle, so it was no problem." 
Sunday featured the same basic storyline: Team With the sweep, the Irish (3-1 in MCC) continue gets early lead. Pitching takes over. Roll the to show improvement at a key point in the 
credits. season, as they prepare to face three league foes While this might not make the cut as Hollywood this week. The team has now won 3 games in a movie material, it's a perfectly acceptable way to row and 11 of their last 14. · win games. In the first game, Notre Dame jumped out with The Irish geared up for a series of MCC games a run in the first inning, as shortstop Christy 
with a doubleheader sweep of LaSalle at Ivy Connoyer (3 for 3, 2 runs scored, stolen base) Field, winning two very similar games, 4-0 and 3-scored on Andrea Keys' (2 for 3) single. The Irish 1. scored three times in the third, taking advantage Strong pitching was the key for the Irish (21-11) of an error to score the first two, then adding 
in both games, with freshman Terri Kobata their final run on second baseman Michelle 
starting and picking up both wins, and senior Cline's RBI single. 
Staci Alford relieving each time to record her The pitching took it from there, as Kobata third and fourth saves of the year. allowed no runs and only one hit over the first "I wouldn't usually start Terri fn both games four innings while striking out eight and walking 
like I did Sunday," explained coach Liz Miller. none. Alford was just as effective relieving over the last three innings, giving up merely two hits to complete the three-hit shutout. Game two began in much the same fashion, with the Irish taking a first inning lead once again. Notre Dame scored single runs in the first, second, and sixth innings, as Connoyer and senior Casey McMurray (2 for 3) each drove in one run. Sophomore catcher Sara Hayes went two for four with a run scored and tw.o stolen bases. Kobata (9-3) started again, pitching five scoreless, one-hit innings and striking out eleven hitters. This outing extended her scoreless inning streak to 23 and lowered her already­minute season ERA to 0.86. Alford again picked up the save, closing out the final two innings of the 3-1 victory. 


The Irish are headed for three important MCC road match-ups this week, as they visit Loyola 
(IL) today, then take on defending league champ 

The Observer/David Hungeling Detroit Mercy on Saturday and Evansville on The Observer/ Sean Terri Kobata (center) won both games for the Irish. Sunday. Notre Dame has won 11 of its last 14 games to iimprove to 21-11. 
Saint Mary's swim coach throws in the towel 
By BETH REGAN  the Belles.  his tenure.  
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor  "It will be difficult to hire the  Although  saddened  by  
most qualified person because  Cooper's decision to resign, the  
Dennis  Cooper,  the  Saint  the athletic department at Saint  staff and swimmers at Saint  
Mary's swim coach of the past  Mary's is unable to offer any  Mary's understood his need to  
live years, threw in the towel,  coaches full time positions due  do it.  
so to speak, and will not be re­ to lack of funds," commented  "I think that we knew that it  
turning to coach at Saint Mary's  Nestor.  was coming," said sophomore  
next fall.  Katie Northup.  "Everyone just  
..  The combination of early morning •· practices, regular evening .~·, ..•practices,  "It will be extremely difficult for me to give up coaching all together," said Cooper. "A full time coaching job would have eliminated the juggling of the two schedules which could have  hoped it would be at the end of their own senior year." "We didn't think he was going to be here forever, but we didn't think that we'd lose him next  
weekend meets, and a full time job  lt·..J  allowed me to continue." Prior to coming to Mary's in the fall of  Saint 1988,  year," freshman Jennifer Mitchell added. Cooper's efforts were appre­ 
did not allow Coach Cooper Cooper to  Cooper coached a private com­petitive team in Indianapolis.  ciated by Saint Mary's Athletic Department, however they  
spend time with his wife and  He swam for Indiana State Uni­ knew that he could not keep go­ 
four children, forcing him to  versity where  he  set  three  ing at such an incredible pace,  
announce  his  resignation  school records and went on to  according Nestor.  
Wednesday.  be the assistant coach of that  
"It was a very difficult deci­ team after graduation.  "I can't even begin to describe  
sion to make, but I decided that  the amount of dedication he's  
it  was not fair to my family for  After marrying, Cooper de­ put into this program," said  
me  to be away so often.  My  cided to reduce his coaching to  Nestor.  "Not only does he put  
kids need  a father at home,"  part time and took a job as a  in  an  incredible number of  
said Cooper.  publishing consultant at Com­ hours, but he also supports the  
"Perhaps if they were older it  puterland, where he presently  mission of the college to the  
would be different."  works.  maximum."  
- The  director of the Saint  The Belles thrived under Cooper. He took the team to  "Coaching at Saint Mary's has  
Mary's athletic department Jo­ nationals two times out of his  meant a lot to me," said Cooper.  
Ann Nestor, Cooper, and two  five seasons at Saint Mary's.  "The willingness of the team to  
Saint Mary's swimmers will  Cooper also coached four  come out, work hard and do the  
form  a committee responsible  academic All-Americans and  best that they can has been a  
for hiring the future coach of  one NAIA All-American during  great reward."  


Dennis Cooper will leave one family at the swimming pool 
The Saint Mary's swim 
JEN GUSTAFSON

team received some disappointment at a team party this weekend when 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

head coach, Dennis Cooper announced that he will not While there were somebe returning next season. 
who were not surprised by

Dennis was not perfect. 
the announcement,Like most coaches, he 

everyone was saddened by

sometimes had difficulty 
it. Somewhere in the middle controlling his temper. He of all of the practices, meets was known by the Belles, 

and traveling, Dennisother teams and even the 

earned not only the respect

lifeguards at Rolfs for his 
of the team as a coach, butred-faced, spit flying, vein also as a friend.

popping yelling fits. 
"He is a unique coach inFortunately for the team, that he sees more than the

however, the good times competitive aspect,"
with Dennis far outweighed explained sophomore Tarathe bad. 
Krull. "Often the centralAs a Division III coach, focus is on one of the mostDennis didn't earn a Jot of important aspects of beingmoney, nor did he receive on a team and that's friend­

much recognition for his 
ship."

efforts. Instead, he coached "He pushed me to my fullbecause he loved the sport 
potential and was always

and he instilled this love in there was always there ieach of his swimmers. 
anyone needed him whether

"After being out of the 
it was swimmin~ ,

sport for four years, he 
academics or personal,' saidinspired me to Jove it again," sophomore Carisa Thomas. 

said freshman Jen Dyjak. 
The upperclassmen also

"He gave me the motivation feel the Joss. "Over the to want to be good." 
see COACH/ page 11 
D~~Dilll~ SPORTS 
SMCTRACK 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
BASEBALL 
Belles have a season-best 

Brackets of 64. Irish take two more from 
performance. 
Dusquense, face Toledo. 
s 

see page 14 

see page 13 see page 12 
r. 










