The Observer
/Jr 

VOL. XXV. NO. 89 WEDNESDAY, MARCH17, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Saint Mary's elections to be held tomorrow 
Missing teens rescued; 
By KATIE CAPUTO AND NICOLE MCGRATH News Writers 
Saint Mary's College students will select class officers from a variety of tickets tomorrow. 
The Class of 1994 will have four tickets to choose from this Thursday including current junior class president, Beth Petrovic. 
All candidates want to sup­port the Saint Mary's sesqui­centennial committee's events surrounding the Class of 1994. 
Petrovic, if elected, would serve for the third consecutive year as president. Her ticket includes current junior class vice-president, Erin Cannon, Kristin Johnson, secretary, and Mary DiFranco, treasurer. 
"Both Erin and I can continue our work but with two new 

~~~-Iii 
~tECBri<r5t~s J99s 

women, we would have a new and even flow of everything," said Petrovic. 
Their platform focuses on making the seniors' last year the best while looking forward to the future, according to Petrovic. Having a resume workshop and supporting Saint Mary's alumnae workshops are a couple of their ideas. Working with the new Counseling and Career Development director will be important in making these ideas a reality, she said. 
Becky McLain, president, Beth Regan, vice-president, 
Mary Soice, secretary and Glo­ria Reyes, treasurer, all make up the second ticket. McLain has served on Regina Hall council and just resigned as Board of Governance's election commissioner. 
"Most of our ticket doesn't have a whole lot of experience but we all have ideas," said McLain. 
A senior class remembrance book, similar to the yearbook, would include a personal page, pictures and major world events. Possible senior class trips might be to the Oprah Winfrey show, Indiana dunes or Cedar Point. 
"As a service project, I want to look into working with one or two families by having the se­nior class 'adopt a family' year-
see ELECTIONS I page 4 

Williams completes two-week South African trip 
By KRISTIN MCGOWAN News Writer 
The question of how the U.S. can be more influential in pro­moting the empowerment of blacks in South Africa was the focus of Father Oliver Williams recent two-week expedition to that country. 
Williams, an associate provost and professor of management at Notre Dame, travelled to South Africa as a member of the National Advisory Council to 
U.S. companies operating there. 
His particular role with the council focuses on business ethics. His intention on this visit was "to communicate that the U.S. is very interested in the ethical dimension -the moral dimension -of investments," he said. 
The council "interviewed and listened to all the major political parties," according to Williams. 
Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the leader of the Inkatha Freedom Party, "gave us a lot of good ideas," he said. Even more important were the ideas the council wanted to impress on Buthelezi. 
black party, because he believes Buthelezi has been resisting a it provides insufficient federalist 
new political agreement be­
structure, according to 
tween the National Party, the Williams.
dominant white party, and the 
The council, on the other
the African National Congress hand, approves of the agree­
(ANC), the most influential ment, and wants to persuade 

Buthelezi to accept it. 
One week before their trip, the council was briefed by the National Security Commission. "Their strong feeling was that 
see WILLIAMS I page 6 
SJqrm death ~ou tops 200 
The last grpvp of. 2{ . roads so. emerg~ncy vehicles .fl. campers missi · •• cq:uld pass; beforethis storm ewy AppalachiM ..•.• <the state had a1ret\djt ~ent $75 
ejhe deatll;•de ··· · million on snow.renioval: 
. . : : . . . . . . . .. : . .: -~ . : :-: ..=·: :·:: '·. .·.: . ... . 
And the NationalWeather Service warned. TUesday that much of the eastern :p~rt ofthe country, especially the Qhio Valley. and New England, is .Ukely to face springtim.e flo()().­ing because of the storm; ·· "Tlle .volume<of wat~r that 
ll ~~ ~P9W, lli~Y pe 
. . . utea,;-FrarilOUc. · .of tneWeather S~roc . . ecla1 
· ·studies.branch<said at· a news c;onference inWa!>llin~on. Tbe Miclligan ·campers. mostly teenagers.who all had undergone wilderness survival training, were among a groupoH17 who set o~tlJ1ore than a wee.k ago. and.had b~~n sched, uled ~o e~xu1rge -· · · oods 
• :rliesd,ajt. ····· · · · ; ... ·Most had beeli foQ,pd Mon­day, leaving 21 students and three teachers missing. 
They were located Tuesday afternoon in the Hazel Creek area near Fontana Lake in North Carolina. said(Jql. Larry Sh.elton .·of the TePD:essee Air 
· National Guard.··· 
Area bars to participate in Designated Driver program 
By MEREDITH campaign. Created by the Des­MCCULLOUGH AND 
ignated Driver Task Force of St. Joseph County, the campaign
SARAH DORAN 
involves giving free soda and
News Writers 
coffee refills to the designated driver and chances for him to
St. Patrick's Day has long 
win free dinners, tickets andbeen characterized by its tradi­hotel stays. It is the first of its tional venue of festivities and kind in the area.
celebration and at Notre Dame "We have received calls fromand Saint Mary's, this often many different people that aretranslates into the attendance glad we are doing this, a lot ofof students at area bars. 
people think its a really good In an effort to make the holi­thing" said Larry Wolf, presi­day a safe one, the bars have dent of the Third District Tav­planned a few ways to ensure ern Owners Association andthat a designated driver will be member of the task force. 
instrumental in promoting a 
"We are going to learn a lot new tradition-one character­from it, but, like a newbornized by safe driving. 
baby, its going to take a while.
Eighty-seven area bars will 
It will need adjustments and
participate in a year-round 
changes," he said. 
program that kicks off today called the "If you Drink, Think" see DRIVERS I page 4 

Rear Admiral Wilmot to address Naval ROTC battalion 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
When Rear Admiral Louise Wilmot received her commis­sion as an ensign in the U.S. Navy in 1964, it would have been very easy for her not to see a future in her chosen ca­reer. 
"Women were not in com­mand in anything. We could not be aboard ship, husbands were not entitled to benefits, and having children meant not having a career," she said yes­terday afternoon during a meeting with Naval ROTC women midshipmen. 
But, after almost thirty years of service, she is not only a decorated officer but also the tenth woman in Navy history to be picked to be an admiral, a position she was appointed to in 1991. She currently serves as Vice Chief of Naval Education and Training. 
Wilmot sees a great future for women in the Navy, despite the current administration's cut­backs. 
"The changes in the Navy should not be seen as frighten­ing or limiting. They will only expand opportunities for women," she said. "The cuts will mean a lot of competition for jobs. It is positive for women and for the navy." 
It has been recommended by acting Secretary of the Navy Admiral Kelso that•all areas of the Navy be opened to women, said Wilmot, who sits on the Secretary of the Navy's Com­mittee for Women. 
"Right now, it is not the number one issue, but it is one of extreme importance. I be­lieve that we will soon see the repeal of legislation that bars the restriction of where women can be assigned." she said. 
Wilmot believes that women 

Rear Admiral Louise Wilmont 
will soon go on most ships, and also into combat. 
"Combat in the Navy means being on ships or aircrafts,"she said. "There is no reason why women can't do that. There will be a push for women in the Navy." 
Women should not be dis­couraged with the Navy in light of the recent Tailhook sexual harassment scandal that in­volved female officers, she said. 
"The Navy can and will edu­cate and protect against sexual harassment. I am in a good po­sition to ensure a good training program. But, you must speak up when you see things going wrong. The Navy did not edu­cate and commission you for sexual harassment." she said. "Don't let a bad situation go on." 
"The Tailhook 1\vo report will come out soon and with it will come another round of scrutiny. Officers are supposed to be the epitome of good behavior. There is something that allows people to suspend good behavior-it is wrong," said Wilmot. "Behavior must be the same all the time. We must uphold high standards." 
She also addressed the sub­ject of women and family in the Navy, stressing understanding as the key. 
"We all have egos. The Navy is an atypical lifestyle and some can't handle that. You must have an understanding before you get married and a serious discussion with your husband about careers and how it is go­ing to work," she said. "It must be a team effort to work out." 
"All it takes is planning out when to have children. There has never been a situation where a female aviator has not been able to carry out a mission due to pregnancy," she said. 
Before assuming her present post, Rear Admiral Wilmot was commander of the Naval Training Center in Orlando, Florida and has been decorated with the Defense Superior Ser­vice Medal, Legion of Merit Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, and the National De­fence Medal. She will address the Naval ROTC battalion this afternoon at 3:25 pm in room 101 of Debartolo Hall. 

page 2 Wednesday, March 17, 1993
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Remember 

N. Ireland this St. Patrick's 
Erin go bragh. 

It's an easy thing to say on St. Patrick's Day, the official celebration of all that is Irish. But how many people know what this Gaelic phrase means? 
For those in the dark, it 

means "Ireland go free,"a Rich Kurz reminder of a time when Sports Writer all of Ireland was under British rule. To manv-------­people that may seem a far ofT time, or having little relevance to this day and age except for nostalgia's sake. 
That would be the case, except for one thing -the days of bloodshed and violence on the Emerald Isle are far from over. British forces still remain in an area called Northern Ireland, a result of the 1921 Government of Ireland Act passed by the British Parliament. 
When Irish independence was near, a large group of people -most, but not all, Protestant -objected, fearing being overwhelmed by the rest of Catholic Ireland. Parliament responded by allowing individual counties to opt out o independence. Ever since, relations between those loyal to the Union and those loyal to the Irish Republic have been tense. 
St. Patrick's Day revellers several thousand miles away, across the ocean in places like Boston and Chicago, don't feel the effect of the continued standoff. But in places like Belfast, normal life takes on a slightly different feel. Protestant and Catholic neighborhoods are divided by walls and army checkpoints regularly stop cars to check identification and search for bombs and guns. 
Not a week goes by in which either a Protestant or Catholic isn't killed and the other side strikes back in retaliation. 
Even across the Irish Sea in England the Northern Ireland problem makes its presence felt. Here in the United States, no one thinks twice when someone leaves a briefcase or a package 'on the subway. In London, the Underground system is shut down until a bomb squad can investigate. 
That huge explosion that shut down the World Trade Center in New York City? Unfortunately, a more common occurrence in London. In the last year, one Irish Republican Army bomb blast heavily damaged more than four city blocks while another killed several people shopping in world-famous Harrod's department store. 
The typical reaction is to blame the British for all of the problems in Northern Ireland. But the sobering reality is that both sides have done their share to continue the conflict. 
Should the British withdraw, the Protestants fear violence from the Catholics, while the problems inherent in the British remaining in Northern Ireland are obvious. 
No settlements are on the horizon, and so the violence will continue. So before you raise that glass of green beer today, keep in mind that over in Northern Ireland, things are quite so cheerful. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News 
Sports 
Frank Rivera 

Jason Kelly 
Theresa Aleman 

Kevin Dolan 

.. ::· .;.·. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Hoosier towns ready for St. Patrick's 
•DUBLIN, ln. -Hoosiers don't have to board a jet or sail across the Atlantic Ocean to celebrate St. Patrick's Day in the land of the Irish. Ireland and Dublin are just a car trip away. The Indiana towns named for the Irish country and its capital plan to have plenty of folks donning green for the celebration Wednesday. And many local taverns -in those towns and around the state ­will have kegs of the traditional green beer on tap. In Dubois County, where Ireland is located, even jail in­mates will receive shamrock-shaped cookies, said Sheriff Terry Tanner. Ireland marked St. Patrick's Day with its annual festival the weekend before the holiday. A parade marched through the town and various organizations set up booths selling Irish stew, burgers and green beer, said Mark Brescher, who lives in the town of 500 or so adjacent to Jasper. "A lot of people, when they think of Ireland, they think you're talking about the place across from the big pond. They don't know there's one right here," said Brescher, who's also the Dubois County auditor. 
NATIONAL 

Operation Rescue members fined 
•wASHINGTON -A federal judge fined Operation Rescue and three of its leaders $282,610 Tuesday for violating his injunction last year forbidding them from blockading abortion clinics. U.S. District Judge James Oberdorfer levied the fines despite a Supreme Court decision in January forbidding federal judges from using a 1871 law as the basis for declaring women seeking abortions "a protected class," and issuing such injunctions. The law originally was designed to protect blacks from the Ku Klux Klan. Operation Rescue and other anti-abortion protestors had contended that the high court's 5-4 decision effectively overturned Oberdorfer's 1989 and 1990 injunctions forbidding blockades at abortion clinics in the District of Columbia. 
Bentsen asks for S&L bailout 

•WASHINGTON -Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen asked Congress Tuesday for $45 billion to finish the savings and loan cleanup and asserted the nation would pay "a far greater price, and deservedly so" if lawmakers refused. The request, if approved, would bring the total spent or promised on S&Ls since 1988 to more than $200 billion. Lloyd Bentsen The size of the Clinton admin­istration's request to the House Banking Committee was $13 billion higher than the estimate issued by the Bush administration in January, just before it left office. Private analysts contended Bentsen had inflated his re­quest but they said it was better to ask for too much rather than seek too little and have to ask for another politically painful vote. "The most sensible thing to do is ask for enough money so that even if you're wrong, you don't have to go up there (to Capitol Hill) again," said Robert Litan of the Brookings Institution, a liberal policy research organization. 

OF INTEREST 

• GSU Presidential Candidates Debate: Tonight at 
8:00 p.m. in Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall, candidates for the office of president of the Graduate Student Union will debate. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Production 

Accent Kim Massman 
Lis Heard Meghan Kelly Steve Tankovich Allison Ebel 
Matt Carbone 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated' Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 16 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 217,731,700 -0.16 to 248.81 S&P COMPOSITE 

+0.06 to 451.37 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+0.54 to 3,442.95
UNCHANGED 590 


GOLD 
-$0.20 to $329.60 /oz 
SILVER 
-$0.6 to $3.648/oz 

• 
In 461: According to tradition, St. Patrick -the patron saint of Ireland -died in Saul. 

• 
In 1950: Scientists at the University of California at Berkeley announced they had created a new radioactive ele­ment, which they named californium. 

• 
In 1966: A U.S. midget submarine located a missing hydrogen bomb that had fallen from an American bomber into the Mediterranean off Spain. 

• 
In 1969: Golda Meir became prime minister of Israel. 

• 
In 1989: The nation's worst oil spill occurred as the supertanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on a reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound and began leaking 11 million gallons of 



-~-~~---------------------­
------------------~----------~----------­
page 3 The Observer 
Maher: Commercialism exploits women 

By GWEN DUFFIELD 
News Writer 
In order to change the negative sex stereotyping within the media of advertising, the public needs to become more aware of how commercialism exploits women, according to professor Patricia Maher. 
Maher, a lecturer in communications at Saint Mary's College, discussed last night the enormous influence the media has in advertising certain images that women believe they need to meet. Because the media has become so influential in society, people never question the extent to which its standards affect their views of themselves and other people. 
"Advertisements are based on the belief that women have a defined image they must achieve," said Maher. "Instead of changing this image to fit themselves, women change themselves to fit in with this image." 
Although women are more present in the workforce and politics and have become more mvolved in social issues, there is a higher rate of date rape, sexual harassment on the job and eating disorders. These increases can be linked to the 
Professor Patricia Maher 
public's inability to overcome the stereotypes of women as inferior in advertising. 
In her emphasis on the power of commercialism, Maher presented a film entitled "Still Killing Us Softly" which contained several discriminating advertisements against women which were collected by Jean Kilborn, a noted author and women's researcher. 
According to Kilborn, advertising is a billion dollar industry which portrays a mythical world where people are persuaded to believe the consumers can buy happiness and the product are mstant solutions which will fulfill them and ensure happiness. 
"The ads depict an idealism of youth and perfect beauty for women which is impossible to 

Want to maximize your performance on the LSAT? Learn what the test covers and effective test-taking strategies from the company that knows the test makers best. Classes begin Monday, March 22nd at our South Bend Center, 1717 East South Bend Avenue. For more information or to enroll, call (219) 272-4135 




KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question. 
attain and unrealistic," she said. 
Women are taught that they must transform themselves into this ideal of perfection and in the process turn their bodies into objects. 
"Women learn they must 'package' themselves as merchandise and this dehumanization creates contempt for themselves and also justifies violence against them since they are seen as objects," said Kilborn. 
Those who go against this model of perfection are seen as going against themselves by rejecting the idea of who they ought to be and this causes insecurity as well, according to Kilborn. 
This distorted and negative image of women greatly affects how men view things that are considered feminine. The strong emphasis on sexuality in ads, where women are shown as passive and vulnerable, can be tied to violence against women in the form of sexual harassment and assault. 
Kilborn noted that men are also stereotyped by advertisements. 
"Certain ads, like ones for cologne, show men as having an inner savageness that they should let out," Kilborn said. 
The messages in ads push men to strive to be in control and invulnerable and associate masculinity with violence and ruthlessness. 
Above all, advertisements limit the opportunity to change these stereotypes in society because they trivialize the true emotions of women and men by trying to label each sex with certain qualities. 
"If our society is going to change and improve, people need to be aware of the myths in the realm of advertising and become active in changing them,"said Kilborn. 
Maher said it is not necessary for people to think there is something wrong with them because they do not have the ideals that advertisements are selling. 
"By buying into these beliefs," said Maher, "we are actually going against each other in trying to become the ideal." 
Wednesday, March 17, 1993 

The Observer/ Brian McDonough

Grade-posting time 
Becky Cordes and Lisa Vierhile, Breen Phillips Hall sophomores and Notre Dame science students check their mid-term exam grades. 
Chicago hotel fire claims 14 
CHICAGO (AP) -A fire that ripped through a residence hotel Tuesday killed 14 people, including three who jumped to their deaths rather than face the flames and smoke. Others tied sheets together and climbed out upper floors. 
Some of the 130 residents registered at the Paxton Hotel were not accounted for yet. Twenty people were brought to hospitals. 
When firefighters arrived at the four-story hotel, dozens of panicked residents were gath­ered at windows or dangled from them as wind-whipped flames rose 15 feet in the air above the roof and blazed out other windows. 
"The smoke was so intense, I couldn't see the flames, and it was driving people out the win­dows," said 45-year-old resi­dent Minnie Byrd, who was reading in her third-floor room when she smelled smoke from the early morning fire. "I thought I had to jump, too. 

"I was praying real hard. I got one leg out the side and a fireman said, "Wait! Wait!" and got the ladder to me." 
Victims lay on the ground, some shouting in pain, while firefighters concentrated on rescuing people rather than fighting the blaze. 
Robert Crowder, 61, com­plained that bars on the win­dows of his first-floor apart­ment prevented him from escaping. 
"There was no way to get out," Crowder said. "So I had to yell until I could attract the attention of firemen. They came up with a saw to saw through the bars. By this time, flames were coming through the door, and smoke was curl­ing under the door." 
Mass 
on the Feast of 
Saint 
Patrick 
Wednesday, March 17, 1993 
Fr. Willie Purcell, Kilkenny, Ireland, Presider Irish Sacred Music of the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
5:00pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, March 17,1993 
and on billboards, said Wolf. of the year, only now they get a A few of the area bars that are button."
Drivers 

participating in the campaign "If anyone is having a prob­

continued from page 1 

The designated driver of a party of four or more will re­ceive a button with the cam­paign slogan written on it and a red ribbon attached, signifying his status as the driver. To reg­ister for the prizes, the driver will fill out an entry blank that includes the server's name to entitle both of them to the re­ward. 
The program's beginning was generated from a 1992 South Bend Tribune Editorial that challenged local groups to promote designated driving on Dyngus Day. 
The task force formed and realized that the problem oc­curred year round, not only on Dyngus Day but on other holi­days including Memorial Day, the 4th of July, Saint Patrick's Day and also on non-holidays. 
It will be promoted by public service messages on television 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
round," said McLain. 

Having a week honoring the Sister of the Holy Cross order while having students and sis­ters participate in different events would be looked into be­cause of Saint Mary's sesqui­centennial year, she said. 
Courtney Swift, president, heads up the third ticket which includes Katie Baal, vice-presi­dent, Lauren Siragusa, secre­tary and Lisa Rania, treasurer. 
"We think there hasn't been a change. We want new faces and new ideas, "said Swift. 
Ideas for the senior class in­clude having im activity of the month such as class tailgaters and class retreats. Holding a Saint Mary's Olympic day and sponsoring a senior class spring break trip are also on their list, according to Swift. 
"We would like to have an all class service project in conjunc­tion with one grade school where students could volunteer tutor and have a carnival with them," she said. 
Kelly Collins, president, rounds out the group of candi­dates along with her ticket of Kari Marshall, vice-president, Tobi Laren, secretary and Kerry Brennan, treasurer. 
are RD's Nightclub, Cap and Cork, McCormick's and Bridget's. 
"We would rather have a des­ignated person driving that is sober. Then, everyone can have a good time," said RD's Nightclub manager Donna Wagner. 
The bar has normally offered free soda and coffee to the designated driver in the past, said Wagner, "we have a lot of college kids that are real con­scious about that." 
"It's important that the pro­gram is not just for Saint Patrick's Day," said Tony Mittiga, manager of Cap and Cork, ~hich is also a part of the Third District Tavern Owners Asso­ciation. 
"It is exactly what we have been doing for live years, but its all official this year," said Pete McCormick of McCormick's, which is also a member of the association. "(The campaign) is no different that any other day 
"We want the senior class united including off-campus students. "said Collins. 
Collins currently is chair­woman of junior mom' weekend and a resident advisor. Brennan is the junior class social commissioner, Marshall served on the freshman and sophomore boards and Laren served on academic council. 
By having resume workshops and mock interviews, Collins said she hopes to help improve hiring chances of students. Working with the Notre Dame senior class on class trips is also one of their goals. 
"We want to have a Saint Mary's video yearbook which would show our graduation and other highlights," said Collins. 
All class elections will be Thursday at the dining hall during meals. In the case of no majority, class run-offs will be on Monday. 
Next year's Sophomore Class of 1996 has two tickets cam­paigning against each other. The current class officers are running again for the chance to carry through many of their new ideas from this past year. Heading off the ticket is Lisa Whisler for President, Liz Fedesna for Vice-President, Beth Regan for Secretary, and Mary Good for Treasurer. 
According to Whisler, they would be able to take what they lem, we make sure they get a ride home and take away their keys," said Terry Lopata of Bridget's, which is participating in the program. "We also put out free food." 

Area bars that are not a part of the association, which include Coach's and the Linebacker Lounge, have established their own guidelines to encourage safe driving. 
"We have a cop at the door with breathalizers to check and see if there are problems," said Renee Salvetti of Coach's which is not a member of the associa­tion."It is up to the individual once they get in here to act re­sponsibly." 
Salvetti also said that desig­nated drivers are given free sodas at Coach's. 
"If you come in with a desig­nated driver button, you will get a free pop," said Gabriella Szemethty of the Linebacker Lounge, which is also not par-RD's Nightclub bartender Donna Waynor. ticipating in the campaign. 
have learned throughout the past year and use those experi­ences to their advantage, if elected. 
"We want to emphasize that we have experience and a year's worth of ideas from the class," said Whisler, "This will be our chance to put them into action." 
The Whisler/Fedesna ticket plan to increase the campus so­cial life on the Saint Mary's campus. A main goal of their's is to form monthly Sophomore nights at Dalloway's Coffee House, and to encourage new talent from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to perform there. 
They are also very interested in organizing a Student Body National Honor Society for Saint Mary's. Through their positions from this year, they have al­ready started to contact sources to help Saint Mary's be initiated into a program. 
The other Class of 1996's ticket is lead by Janeen Gillig for President, Gretchen Johnson for Vice-President, Jayne Gillig for Secretary, and Anne Hurley for Treasurer. 
Their main goal is to unify the Sophomore Class through activities such as weekend re­treats and social events. They would also like to see a better unity between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, according to Johnson. 
They would like to establish meetings with the student council at Notre Dame in order to work one on one and get more accomplished, said John­son. 
"Our goal is to unify our class through unique activities that they want to attend," said Johnson. 
There is only one ticket for the Junior Class of 1995. The candidates are Noha El-Gan­zouri for President, Shenna Mowery for Vice-President. Michelle Drobitsch for Secre­tary, and Renelle Baldwin for Treasurer. 
The theme for their ticket is "A New Perspective for a New Year". They want to better rep­resent their whole class as the officers for next year. 
"Our main goal is that what­ever activities we plan for the next year, we want as much in­volvement from the Junior Class." said EI-Ganzouri, "We want maximum feedback from the Junior Class because we are working for them." 
They have several new ideas for the upcoming year that in­clude academic big sisters in a major, a file of old tests and notes to help students in their classes, and a new system for returning and re-selling books, according to El-Ganzouri. 
HEY 

SOPHOMO~ES! 

GE-r INVOLVED WlfH 
YOU~ JPW 
APPLICA110NS f0~ fHE EXECU11VE COMMiffEE AVAILABLE Ar fHE 
LAFO~ruNEINfODESK DUE MONDAY MA~CH 22 
Wednesday, March 17,1993 The Observer page 5 
Yeltsin: Democratic reforms in grave anger 
MOSCOW (AP) -Warning that Russia's democratic re­forms are in grave danger. President Boris Yeltsin charged Tuesday that the hard-line par­liament is trying to restore Communism and appealed for greater Western aid. 
In his first public appearance since storming out of a humili­ating session of Congress of People's Deputies on Friday. Yeltsin said he had not decided how to respond to the growing political crisis. 
"The results of the Congress give us serious grounds for alarm. The Congress did not solve. rather it deepened the constitutional crisis," Yeltsin said at a Kremlin news confer­ence with French President Francois Mitterrand. 
Mitterrand made a one-day visit to show Western support for Yeltsin after the 1,033­member Congress last week moved to sharply curb the Russian president's power to carry out reforms. 
"I see a very serious danger posed to democracy and re­form. I can see there is an at­tempt to restore the Communist regime of the Soviets," Yeltsin said. 
Mitterrand's visit was the lat­
est in a series of meetings with 
Western leaders concerned 
about Yeltsin's political survival. 
Last week, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl met with the Russian president in Moscow for 90 minutes. In two weeks, he will meet President Clinton in Vancouver, British Columbia, for a two-day summit. 
Yeltsin and Mitterrand ar­rived at the news conference looking grim, but a brief smile crossed the Russian president's face when he was asked what actions he intended to take to deal with his opponents in Congress. 
'Tm studying, looking into the issue so I can make decisions calmly. I'm studying the scale of political damage done to the constitutional, state structure," he said. 
Hard-liners fear Yeltsin will try to declare presidential rule and .dissolve the Congress. But he has said he will adhere to the constitution, which was adopted during Communist rule and is vague on the division of power between executive and legislative branches. 
Mitterrand skirted a question on how the West would view the imposition of emergency rule, saying only that he would wish success to those seeking democratic reforms. 
The Congress is dominated by former career Communists, industrial managers and col­lective farm leaders elected be­fore the Soviet Union's collapse. They have resisted private ownership of land and criticized Yeltsin's foreign policy as too pro-Western. 
Mitterrand said he was push­ing for a summit of the Group of Seven richest industrial democracies as early as April to consider aid and debt relief for Russia because "the problems of Russia are urgent." 
Leaders of the seven nations are scheduled to meet in July in Tokyo. 
"If we wait until June or July it could turn out to be too late," Yeltsin said. 
Russian hard-liners have been on the attack ever since they forced the resignation of Yeltsin's reformist prime min­ister, Yegor Gaidar. in Decem­ber. Last week, the Congress canceled Yeltsin's plan for a national referendum to decide whether the president or leg­islative branch should have more power. 
Yeltsin said he felt "very bad" about losing his bid for a referendum. 
He told reporters his foreign policy would not change, although he said he understood that "the possibility of restora­tion" of communism "alarms heads of state." 
p R I ;,\; C I p L E S o / S 0 l' ;,\; () R E ·1 I R E ,\\ E ;\; T I :\ \. E S T I :\ G 
UNFORTUNATEIX; TinS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 

E
very year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They don't take advantage of tax deferral and wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. 
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs not only ease your current tax-bite, they offer a remarkably easy way to build retirement income-especially for the "extras" that your regular pension and Social Security benefits may not money you don't send to Washington works even harder for you. Down the road, that can make a dramatic difference in your quality oflife. . 
What else makes SRAs so special? A range of allocation choices-from the guaranteed security of TIAA to the diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity-all backed by the nation's number one retirement system. 
Why write offthe chance for a more 
cover. Because your contributions are • rewarding retirement? Call today and made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how TIAA-CREF taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAs can help you enjoy many your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. 
Benefit nowfrom t1uc deferrtll. CIJU our SRA botline I 800-842-2733, ext. 8016. 

75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it!M 

m's return would be alarming 
He said lawmakers advised Clinton that when he meets Yeltsin in Canada on April 4·5 to ·avoid raising Yeltsin's . of a big bundle of tance. Michel said the 
· · · · industrialized to aid Russia ·-.....u"'? than our doing 
"'J.I'(l<1.1!.ta·Tom Foley, was i,Q. .the 
•. Dcmoctatlc: 

'~"-"''."' fu Russia. ""~'· ~u.•. " proposed billions, . proposed, a nevv aid, and no one is 
of State Warren 

~..... .,...,..pher intends to· meet· , the foreign ministers of tl~e six othl:lr leading indus­trialized nations -Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy -but the · time and site have not been selected. One possibility is a. g~theting during an Inter:­na.tional Monetary F4,nd meeting in Washington in ~te 
· gro s fo 

· in the Congress of People's Deputies has ,not solved Russia's growing political crisis. In fact, he said, the parliament has deepened the crisis, 
ln a meeting March 3 with German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Yeltsin raised the pos­sibility of dissolving parliament and ruling by emergency decree as a last resort, U.S. officials said last week. 
The Russian leader asked for 
U.S. understanding if he took 
Pre:sirtent Clinton responded 
.,....J ....,.. 

by saying the power being held Within noumts and he hoped,il p(ltttimte tlta.tway. · · · 
Can you believe that they are doing it again? Attn. Future SMC Sophomores: 
Remember to vote for 
Whisler, Fedesna, Good 
& Regan on March 
18ili1 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Day Editor 
(Tuesday/Thursday) 
Contact Jennifer Habrych at 284-4312 or 631-4540 for more information. 
CREFurti/uaJtJ art ili.ftrihuttil by TIAA-CREF lnJi,iiJudQlld ltutiluliofllll Smicu. For mort compktt informalion, inc/uJing cbo.rgu Qlld a:ptn.ru, caU 1800-842-27JJ, at. 8016 L----------------------------1 for a prtupu/UJ. Read the pro.tpeciUJ cart/uUy before you tnve.rt or ./tniJ nwney. 
Wednesday, March 17, 1993 
Williams 
continued from page 1 

Buthelezui should go along with the agreement," Williams said. 
One key reason the council and the U.S. government favors the agreement is that they believe such a settlement would somewhat alleviate the problem of ever-increasing violence, Williams said. "If they don't get a multiracial government soon, the spiral of violence is going to get out of control," he said. 
So, the council is urging Buthelezi to "move quickly and try to resolve differences for now," in order to reduce vio­lence and, at the same time, encourage an increase in in­vestment, which Buthelezi strongly favors, Williams said. 
"The tentative timetable is to have an interim government which will include blacks within two months," he said. An all­party conference is currently scheduled for April 5, and 26 parties are expected to attend, he said. 
"What they hope to do at this all-party conference is to select people who will be in the in­terim government -a black and white government," he said. "Then they will have their first election in January or February of next year." 
The plan is for a one-person, one-vote constitutional assem­bly, he said. The assembly's job will be "to formally ratify the new constitution." 
"The interim government will function all during this pro­cess," according to Williams. The presence of blacks in this government will mark "the first time the blacks have had power," he said. "The hope is that this will lend stability to the country." 
The council was scheduled to meet with Nelson Mandela, the ANC leader, but "he's been un­der doctor's orders not to do meetings," according to Williams. Instead, they met with one of his deputies, he said. 
"The message he delivered was, help us get new invest­ment in South Africa," he said. 
TAKE THE KEYS. CALLA CAB. TAKE ASTAND. 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE. 
The ANC "wants to have new investment just as soon as the date for the election is finally settled, and the interim gov­ernment of national unity is established," according to Williams. "They want to call off all sanctions." 
The World Bank and the IMF (International Monetary Fund) will come in once sanctions are eliminated, he said. 
The main thing the ANC is trying to accomplish is the creation of more jobs, he said. Noting the unemployment rate of 40% or more, he asked, "How long can you have a democracy when so many of the people have nothing?" 
In October, 1991, at Mandela's request, Williams held a conference at Notre Dame. Mandela "feels that Notre Dame is influential in the business world," and can assist in "encouraging investors to think about South Africa," according to Williams. 
"He knows Notre Dame very well, and thanks us for helping him," he said. 
The council also spoke with representatives of the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC), a group less inclined to compro­mise than the ANC. In the past, the PAC has advocated the complete elimination of all gov­ernment participation by whites, according to Williams. 
The ANC, on the other hand, sees the necessity of retaining whites because blacks have not yet achieved the level of educa­tion necessary to sustain the country, he said. 
Also, unlike the ANC, the PAC has not yet renounced violence, he said. 
The fact that members of the PAC are attending the all-party 

The Observer 
conference may indicate a new, though slight, tendency toward compromise, but so far "no one is sure how much they are will­ing to work with whites," he said. 
The council also met with Jack Rabie, South Africa's first black cabinet minister; Aggrey Klaaste, editor of The Sowetan, a highly influential black news­paper assisting in the peace effort; Archbishop Denis Hurley; Judge Richard Goldstone, Chairman of the Commision of Enquiry Regarding the Preven­tion of Public Violence and In­timidation; and representatives of the Congress of South African Trade Union (COSATU), Williams said. 
The two other members of William's council are Ned Munger, a professor at the Cali­fornia Institute of Technology who has published twenty books on Africa; and Melvin Miller, a lawyer, an expert in 
U.S. black affairs, and the owner of a black newspaper in Boston, according to Williams. 
The council travels to South Africa annually, according to Williams. It also meets with 
U.S. investors and potential in­vestors twice a year in New York, he said. 
Williams is the author of a book called The Apartheid Cri­sis (Harper and Row, 1986). The controversial thesis of this book is that investors should not be discouraged from doing business in South Africa, but they should accept responsibil­ity for working toward reform there, he said. 
"You have to try to erode apartheid; otherwise your presence there is immoral," he said. "If you don't want to buck the government, you should get out." 
Be Safe on St. Patrick•s Day!! 
Don't drink and drive 


!CLUB Juniors! 
Applu todau for bartender positions! 
Applications can be pirned up in the Student Activities Office, 3rd ftoor Lafortune 
0C{Jd/inC: i1{Jfch /9, /99J 

The Observer/ Jake Peters 

Singing for peace 

Folk singer Charlie King sings at "A fireside chat: Peace Songs of America and Ireland" as part of this week's Irish Events. 
Here's Featured in the January/February issue
looking at 

•Breaking Tradition: A kinder, gentler Spring Break 
a •The Fab Five: U. of Michigan's dream team guns for championship 
•Too Hot for Hollywood: MAGAZINE The Curse ofNC-17 
THE NAnONAL COLLEGE 

ACourse In 
Economics. 
Students can get great haircuts from professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices, not quality. 
,-------l~-------]1-------l 
:$1.00 Off : : $5.00 Off: :200/o Off : 
: Haircut :: Perm ::An Haircare! 
I I i I I I With student 1.0 1 1 With student 1.0 1 1 W1th student 1.0 1
I 

No double discounts No double discounts No double d•scounts 
I reg $8.95 I I I I I I MasterCuts I I MasterCuts I I MasterCuts I
L_______JL_______JL_______J
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
,.....CO<OO<.,•..,,gg, University Park Mall 

~--------------------------------------------~~--------------~2~7~7_-3770 ____~ 
Wednesday, March 17,1993 The Observer page 7 
Bombs wreck two buildings in India; 25 dead, 100 injured 
CALCUTTA, India (AP) -A bomb wrecked two buildings before dawn Wednesday, killing at least 25 people and injuring 100, police and news agencies reported. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the explosion, which came five days after bombs in Bombay killed about 300 people. Calcutta, India's second-biggest city, is 1 ,000 miles east of Bombay. 
The bomb ripped through Calcutta's Bowbazar district, a neighborhood of multi-story buildings with shops on the ground level and apartments above. The bomb set one five­story building afire, trapping several people inside, said Press Trust of India. 
A police officer reached by telephone said 22 corpses were taken to hospital and more bodies were being pulled from the wreckage. 
United News of India put the initial death toll at 25 and said casualties were still arriving at hospitals, many with severed limbs and severe burns. 
"Around midnight, I was aroused from my sleep by a huge explosion," said Mohan Chand Dutta, who lives near the site of the blast. 
"I rushed outside but there was only smoke. I couldn't see anything but I could hear peo­ple screaming. There was complete chaos," Dutta said. 
Samar Basak, another neighborhood resident, said private trucks collected the wounded and drove them to hospitals before ambulances began arriving. Volunteers were urging people to donate blood at the nearest clinic, he said. 
Besides residents of the two damaged buildings, many poor people live and sleep on the sidewalks and in doorways in central Calcutta, and probably were among the victims. About 10 million people live in the de­caying city that once was the capital of Britain's colonial em­pire in the Indian subcontinent. 
On Friday, 13 bombs deto­nated in Bombay, India's biggest city, killing about 300 people and injuring more than 1,100. The bombings wrecked the stock exchange, offices and apartment buildings. 
A militant Sikh group claimed to have set the Bombay explo­sions, but police said they were treating the Sikhs as only one possibility. 
After the Bombay blasts, the 
U.S. State Department renewed its warning to Americans not to travel to India. 
Don•t spend an hour in your shower 
~,~,!19~¥.!1,)')· 
checked at the door Ahmed; a 20­major; 'Said 
·· Hind · ad he 
home "On 
br~,q.g 
amus 
pareq~ 

don't"even to ou'"'"''"~'"'" markets anymorewe're afraid another hr.>mh''.··~m 
r;----------------, Federal agents meet with Waco cult leaders 
Three's A Crowd ...  
Buy 2 Get 1  1636 N. Ironwood Oust south of SR23)  I I I  
Free  271.. 1433 Hours:  I I  
Buy any tWl 1 pasta entrees and gcr the hd fnr Free  Mon-Tues 11-9:30 Wed-Sat 11-10 Sunday 4-9:30  I I  
I 

1Dine-in only. Coupon good till4/7/93. Free dinner must be 1
._ ________________ 
1 of equal or lesser value. Not good with any other offer. .J 
WACO, Texas (AP) -For the first time since a deadly shootout 2 1/2 weeks ago, ne­gotiators met face to face with Branch Davidian leaders in an effort to end a standoff at the cult's armed compound. 
"It was an attempt on our part to get the conversations moving again, and to try to get something triggered that might lead to the resolution of this in­cident," FBI special agent Richard Swensen said Tuesday. 
The talks, conducted Monday, lasted about an hour and in­cluded McLennan County Sher-
CHOROVAYA AKADEMIA 
Men 's a cappe/1 choir from Moscow 
Washington Hall Auditorium Saturday, March 20 

8:10 pm 

Students $7 General Admission $1 0 * * Buy one get one free! * * 
Available at LaFortune Information Desk 631-8128 
iff Jack Harwell and an uniden­tified negotiator, Swensen said. They met with Steve Schneider, a top lieutenant to cult leader David Koresh, and Wayne Martin, a cult member who is a Harvard-educated lawyer. 
Koresh, who was reportedly wounded in the initial firefight. didn't take part. 
The cult's Mount Carmel compound 10 miles east of here has been surrounded by law officers since the Feb. 28 shootout that began when agents with the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms tried to serve search and arrest warrants on Koresh . 
Four agents were killed and 16 wounded, and authorities have said as many as 10 cult members may have been killed and several wounded. 
The meeting took place about 60 yards from the compound. Swensen said the two sides discussed the legal process and 
TUESDAY 16th 
Price 

At Everything 50% off 
TH$Dil8fu 
NIGHT 
COME ON IN AND WE'LL TELL YOU Wll-\T IS GOL"'G ON! 
the condition of the 105 people still in the compound. 
"We're hopeful that it'll lead to something better," Swensen said. "I think they were glad to meet, and I khow that we were glad to meet." 
Also Tuesday, Kathy Schroeder, one of two adults who left the compound Friday, appeared at a court hearing and asked to be released from federal custody. Schroeder, who is being held without bond as a material witness, was brought into court in leg irons and handcuffs. 
Federal Magistrate Dennis Green was expected to rule on her request Wednesday. 
"If she is released tomorrow, she would send a message to all the folks back in the compound that she went through the legal channels and the system treated her fairly," said her attorney, Scott Peterson. 

BASIX 1150 MISHAWAKA AVE. 288·0285 
page 8 The Observer Wednesday, March 17, 1993 
Jury convicts four in rape of mentally retarded girl 
NEWAHK, N.J. (AP) -A jury convicted three young men Tuesday of raping a mentally retarded teenager, ruling she was incapable of giving in­formed consent to sex. A fourth defendant was convicted of a lesser charge. 
After a five-month trial and eight days of tense delibera­tions, the jury found that Christopher Archer and frater­nal twins Kevin and Kyle Scherzer sexually assaulted the girl, who has an IQ of 64 and the social skills of an 8-year­old. 
The three inserted a broom, baseball bat and stick into the young woman's vagina. 
The defendants had main­tained that she instigated the 
sex acts. 
The verdict creates ground rules for future cases involving the mentally retarded, said Deborah Denno, a law professor at Fordham University and specialist in rape law. 
"This was a very difficult case and now it's on the books to be made clear that people who engage in sex with mentally de­fective people proceed at their peril," Denno said. 
The incident occurred March 1, 1989, in the basement of the Scherzer home in the affluent New York suburb of Glen Ridge. The young woman was 17 then; the four defendants were high school football teammates. 
Archer, 21, and the Scherzers, 22, were convicted of first-degree aggravated sexual as­sault involving force or coer­cion. The jury also convicted Archer and Kevin Scherzer of a second identical count, saying they should have known the woman was mentally defective. 

The jury found Bryant Grober, 21, guilty only of a third-degree count of conspiracy, and acquitted him of eight other charges. 
The panel acquitted Kyle Scherzer of three counts of ag­gravated sexual assault, and Archer and Kevin Scherzer on two of those counts. 
Central to the case was the prosecution's claim that the young woman lacked the ca­pacity to understand her ac­tions. Defense attorneys con­tended that the young woman wasn't mentally retarded and that she consented to all of the sexual acts. 
One juror, Donald Murray, said afterward that the issue of mental defectiveness was a "very diffj.cult one" for a jury to decide. He said that the testi­mony of the young woman and two state psychiatric witnesses convinced jurors that she was mentally defective. 
During four days of testimony in mid-December, she gave conflicting accounts of what happened. She admitted lying in her testimony about under­standing the concept of force and said she still considered the four young men as "her friends, sort of." 

The young woman also testi­fied she had been having sexual relations since she was 12 and enjoyed it. Her mother testified that she put her daughter on birth control pills at age 16. 
Sentencing was set for April 
23. Archer and Kevin Scherzer face up to 40 years in prison, Kyle Scherzer 30 years and Grober five years. 
Essex County Judge R. Ben­jamin Cohen denied the prose­cution's request to revoke bail for all but Grober. Bail remains at $25,000 to $50,000. 
Relatives of the defendants were crying in the courthouse after the verdict. They left without commenting. 
"Ifyou love liberty you must apply." 
Sherry Ingram, Yale University, lHS seminar participant 
WOULD YOU LIKE TO ... 
... explore the connection between a free society and peace and prosperity? 
... know more about true liberalism -the liberalism of individual rights to life, liberty, and property and of tolerance and peace? 
... hear about the ideas of rights, rule of law, and free markets from leading scholars who are thinking, researching, and writing within the great classical liberal tradition? 
... pick up helpful tips on pursuing careers where ideas count-in the universities, in journalism, in publishing, in film, in public policy? 
... have a great time with students from across the United States and from all 1993 IHS SUMMER SEMINARS around the world learning, discussing, and discovering the possibilites of a free 
Liberty & Society
society? 

These seminars provide an excellent interdis­ciplinary overview ofclassical liberal thought, drawing on history, philosophy, economics, 
THEN you would have a wonderful time at a summer seminar sponsored by the Institute 
and law. Seminars will be offered for both
for Humane Studies. For over ten years the Institute has been offering students the 
undergraduate and graduate students. 
opportunity to engage in a week-long, concentrated exploration of the ideas of the classical liberal tradition that inspired the Founding Fathers of this country. Held on college campuses 
Liberty In Film & Fiction
in various locations, the seminars are limited to 35 students to allow plenty of opportunity for 
This seminar is specially designed for students
interaction with distinguished faculty and for discussion and debate of these exciting ideas 
interested in literary studies, cinema,fiction 
and how they apply to the world we live in. 
writing, and related fields. 
This summer the Institute is offering more 
Liberty Against Power
seminars than ever, and there's sure to be one 
This seminar, geared toward a.spiring jour­
to suit your interests and schedule. All partici­
nalistsandpublic policy analysts, pays special 
pants will be awarded $850 fellowships cover­
attention to classical liberal insights that will 
ing tuition, room, board, and books. Call now 
be useful in these careers.
for an application, and look forward to an experience like no other you have ever had. 
Liberty & Society-undergraduate Cornell University, Ithaca, NY June 26-July 2 
Call1-800-697 -8799 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 
July 17-July 23 Or write to: Summer Seminars, Institute for College of Notre Dame, Belmont, CA Humane Studies, George Mason University, August 7-August l3 4400 University Dr., Fairfax, VA 22030. 
Liberty & Society-graduate University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA "I had the rare July 10-July 16 College of Notre Dame, Belmont, CA 
opportunity to 
July 24-July 30 July 31-August6 

meet scholars I 
deeply respect, Liberty Against Power Loyola College, Baltimore, MD 
who really care June 19-June 25 about ideas and 
Liberty in Film & Fiction University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA
about teaching." 
July 10-July 16 

Bryan Caplan, UC Berkeley 
Call now for application forms! 1-800.697-8799 
(Monday to Friday, 9:00am -6:00pm EST) 



---------------------·---------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 17, 1993 The Observer page 9 
Experimental drug may help prevent failure of common heart procedures 
ANAHEIM, Calif. lAP) -An experimental drug appears to be the first treatment to keep arteries from reclogging after angioplasty, a problem that af­flicts 100,000 U.S. heart pa­tients annually at a cost of over $625 million. 
Each year, about 300,000 Americans undergo angioplasty, a procedure that uses balloons to force open clogged heart arteries and relieve chest pain. 
But in about one-third of cases, the arteries narrow again. When this happens, the patient must have a second an­gioplasty or a coronary bypass operation. 
This problem -what doctors call restenosis -is one of the most persistent failures of modern cardiology. Finding a way to control it has been a major goal of research, until now without success. 
In a study being presented Wednesday at a meeting of the American College of Cardiology, doctors report that a medicine called ciprostene can reduce this failure rate from one-third of patients to one-quarter. 
"Anything that reduces 
restenosis has very important medical and economic implica­tions," said Dr. Albert Raizner of Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, who directed the study. 
Raizner's findings were based on a re-analysis of a seemingly failed study he finished in 1988. 
In that work, doctors ran­domly assigned 311 angioplasty patients to get either ciprostene or placebos. Six months later, doctors checked the patients' hearts with X-ray movies called angiograms. They estimated that the angioplasties had failed in 41 percent of the ciprostene patients and 53 percent of the placebo patients. 
Because the results were so disappointing, the drug's maker, Upjohn Co., shelved it. 
However, last year, Raizner decided to re-analyze the an­giograms using a computer to judge restenosis rather than relying on crude visual mea­surements. 
This time, the computer found that restenosis had oc­curred in 27 percent of the ciprostene patients, compared with 38 percent of the placebo patients -a 29 percent reduc­tion. 
Upjohn paid for the original study but not the re-analysis. Raizner said Tuesday he hopes the company will resume work on the medicine when it sees the new data. 
An Upjohn spokesman, James Van Sweden, said the company isn't doing studies on ciprostene, "but that could change very quickly." 
No drugs on the market can prevent newly opened arteries from closing up. To get around this problem, researchers have experimented with many sub­stitutes for angioplasty, such as lasers and various cutting de­vices. However, they are also plagued by restenosis. 
At the Anaheim meeting on Monday, Dr. Mark Freed of William Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, Mich., outlined his experimental use of a combina­tion of three drugs -mevacor, colchicine and an ACE inhibitor -to prevent restenosis. It had no effect. 
Freed described Raizner's findings with ciprostene as "really intriguing." 
Children pulled safely after police chase 
MISSION VIEJO, Calif. (AP) ­The driver of a flatbed truck led police on a 60-mile chase that was televised live Tuesday and ended with officers yanking him from the truck and pulling two children to safety. 
A news helicopter captured the dramatic scene and a local station broke into its regular morning programming to broadcast it for nearly a half­hour. After it was over, a high­way patrolman handed the children teddy bears. 
The chase, most of it below the posted speed limit, began in San Diego when the driver of an aging flatbed truck allegedly refused to pull over for a traffic stop, said San Diego police Offi­cer Anthony Rodriguez. 
Police called the California Highway Patrol and officers began pursuing the vehicle on Interstate 5 at Oceanside, said CHP Officer Ted Proia. 
The man had reportedly taken the two children from their grandparents' home in San Diego. The driver's identity wasn't immediately known, but he was believed to be the chil­dren's father. 
"He was acting really strange. He was hanging out the window laughing at the officers. At one point he threw a guitar case out the window," Proia said. 
More stu"~en enteringgene'ral ifiedical ~!practice 
,,:}::: 

NE ___ . _OftK.M(AP) . Malcolm Grow Medical .c~nter me(lical students in Camp Springs. Md;i said family practice severaL attending physicians tried to dissuade her from 
:'going ~lito family practice; ·• · "They told m~ l was too smart," she said. 
th~"nation:·~'health care is •driven by financial · ·· ialists.1,1.re 
.fll:lryt~es 
.,..._... r ..v•u tb.e rate 

WSND 88.9FM 
Here are the results of the survey distributed before break concerning WSND'S Nocturne Program, which features alternative music from midnight-2 am seven days a week. They were sent out by random to students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. In all, 263 of the 2000 surveys mailed were returned. 
52% of students surveyed said they regularly listen to radio. 
Of these, 31% often listen after 10 pm. 
Ofthose who don't listen after 10 pm, 41% cited the lack of good music programming as the primary reason. 
40% of students who don't normally listen to radio are familiar with Nocturne. 
47% of all students surveyed think Nocturne should be on earlier. 
79% of those who like alternative music think Nocturne should be on earlier. 
89% of all those familiar with Nocturne think it should be on earlier. 
* 

WSND realizes that these numbers may have been weighted disproportionately since only a portion of the surveys were returned, and those in favor of expanding Nocturne would have been more likely to respond than those who had no strong opinions on the issue. However, the number of surveys returned far exceeded the normal mail response rate of 2-3%, and we feel that this is the best possible reading of the NO/SMC student community on this issue. WSND wants to thank all those who participated, and in return, we promise to further explore all our options for FM alternative music. 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, March 17, 1993 

How can one sacrifice
Take a look at our nation's sins 
Dear Editor: a meditated murder. 
of all -child who has no meat without a choice? 
This is in response to John voice for himself/herself. All Mr. Davenport, finally, made Dear Editor: sacrifice meat should have to goDavenport's March 4 letter murder is wrong, but the mur­two assertions I must respond All of the students who apply to the Huddle to pay for someconcerning abortion and the der of children tends to bring to: 1) the Holocaust was a and come to the University of food, then you are wrong.
Holocaust. It is clear that when out a strong, emotional re­greater evil because it was or­Notre Dame are aware that it isthe two are examined, Mr. sponse from people. ganized on a large scale, and 2) a Catholic university. The Uni­All of the students at NotreDavenport is wrong, and that abortion is a lesser sin because versity knows and accepts the Dame pay almost $20,000 to beabortion is, by far, the greater Thirdly, let's look at how it is carried out by women in fact that the students are not all here. No student, Catholic orof these two sins. these murders are taking place: "desperate" situations. In re­Catholic, so why does it force non-Catholic, should be forcedFirst of all, let me say I am science has proven that sponse to number one, I'd like the Catholic religion on all of to follow the Catholic faith.
not trying to degrade the hor­children in the womb can feel to say that abortion is orga­the students? Everyone has their own choicerific character of the Holocaust, pain during abortion. Imagine nized on a large scale in Amer­There are many students at as an individuals as to whatnor am I trying in any way to what it must feel like to be ica, as can be seen by the Notre Dame who are not their beliefs and practices willsay that what the Nazis did was chopped apart and sucked out, abundance of abortion clinics. 
Catholic. They should not be be. No religion is better thannot an outright atrocity. I am as is done during abortion. Any Like the Holocaust, abortion is forced to conform to the any other. 
merely asserting that although form of execution is wrong, but also paid for by tax dollars. In Catholic religion just becausethe Holocaust is one of the abortion is clearly one of the response to number two, I'd they want to come here. If that There is a very simpledarkest chapters of human most intensely painful forms of like to ask if there is any situa­were the case, then Notre Dame solution to this problem. Givehistory. abortion is far worse. execution ever conceived. tion in life so "desperate" that 
should only accept Catholic us the choice of meat or no
First, let's look at numbers: murder of the innocent must be students, but that would also be meat. You may modify thethe Holocaust had approxi­Fourthly, let's look at the state committed? 
wrong. menu in some ways, but wemately six million deaths in­of mind of thosewho carry out It is wrong for the University should at least have the choicevolved. Compare this now to the these murders:~ng German As for what that says about not to serve meat on Fridays of the deli counter. I know thatestimated thirty million soldiers who were probably in America, all I can say is that during Lent. There is no most of the students agree thatabortions that have taken place their teens were brainwashed much of ·this country has stood excuse for it. If all Catholics the food is certainly not thein the United States alone since by Hitler's teaching. The courts silently by while our govern­are supposed to sacrifice and best, but we have to eat.
Roe v. Wade. When you con­of the world have not held these ment has carried out a state­9-ot eat meat, then they should Please, don't make it worse by
sider the number of abortions men accountable, as can be sponsored program of wide} 
be given the choice to begin taking away some of ourworldwide, the death toll is seen by observing that post­scale murder of babies. If that with. choices.
staggering. World War II war crimes trials makes us sound like Nazis, then I am a··catholic student and Ifocused on the Germans who maybe it's time we took a good, know that during Lent I am not For the sake of non-Catholics, Next, let's look at who it was masterminded the Holocaust long look at our country's sins supposed to eat meat on Fri­give us meat. For the sake ofthat was being murdered: the and not on the young men who and then choose life. 
days. Not eating meat on Fri­Catholics who want to feel thatJews and Gypsies killed at robotically carried out the deed. 
days is a sacrifice that Catholics they are really making a sacri­Hitler's hands obviously were Abortion, in contrast, is an act Andrew DeKever have been performing for years. fice, give us the choice of meat. 
innocent of any crime. But with of murder brought about by a St. Edward's Hall The key word here is sacrifice. If you don't, then it will be quite abortion, the victim is the most woman who has thought out March 4, 1993 A sacrifice is something that evident that the administrationinnocent and helpless life form what she is doing. This is pre­
you give up. If you ~,re has a firm dictatorship in con­supposed to sacrifice by nut trol here. Knowing the admin­eating meat, but you really istration, it will probably an­don't have any chance to eat swer this argument the same meat, then it isn't a sacrifice. way it answers many others: 

Some people may say, "Why "It is too difficult to change the don't you go to the Huddle, if existing system." The adminis­you want a choice?" This is tration may never realize that unreasonable. The majority of this university belongs to the the students here eat their students. So does Lent. meals at the dining halls be­cause it is already paid for. If Brian Uetz you think that non-Catholics Zahm Hall and people who decide not to 
Feb.26,1993

Dl> 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

ANf? TH~ l</f?5 LA[)(jHING
NO, 9-f~ PJeSN'T, {.{)f.llfN I WAS NHEN I PIA5
rf51RUE-, AT >tJU Ia-5N'T lrlt?AN
A/,.8((, lrlR'3.1.ANG YOUR AGe-'lJJRJI[£ -YC-5,
IJ4Wi.'51-E W CON'T HAV!3ANY
I<NOIAJS HOW Y~~ I KNOW, I /(/1/(}{J/ T1Me5
!Xli6N'TCA£1,.. FRJ/3N/?5, 5arftT/J/$
WVeR. Y(X) ARb... Tllrlt:S !itl~ H4Ve OIAN6t30,,.
CN/rl6 Eif3~ CHitaeN CAN EJe
\ CHAN6W...
CAI./5e~ 1/NKJN/?. t./5T£N, "­
0
7HIN1<9I'Irl I'V~ &JT13XPe;<~ JlJ5TA{)(Jif8 I/3NC& 7Ht:R& ... (i!RU \ 
(i' 

.. Snakes!!" 
Saint Patrick 
Green clovers, purple horseshoes, submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
Accent 
Wednesday, March 17, 1993 page 11 
South Bend Regional Museum provides new art experiences 
By ELISABETH HEARD and mythology, Aaron-Taylor's spare, conceptual work of blue 
Assistant Accent Editor small scale figures are at once pigment rubbed directly onto human and animal, both old the gallery floor. While her art and young. Many of these focuses on basic geometric
Where, in South Bend, can figures are based on dreams, forms, it also reveals the artist's you find expressive sculptures and they reflect a state between hand, in a technique which is and beautiful watercolor waking and dreaming, best described as paintings, as well as listen to constantly changing and "expressionistic minimalist." 
informative lectures on topics evolving, recognizable but not Buhr's interest is to use com­ranging from the news media to identifiable, and very difficult to mon objects in uncommon Renaissance drawing? The pin down. ways. Much of her art consists Snite Museum of Art? "It begins with the death of a of large scale graphite and 

Students ''serious about
While this may be true, the small part of the ego... the lighter fluid drawings, one of 
.:'::.:..~':~:;t~:f.:~~: .
Snite is not the only place to plunge into the abyss. The which includes a 50-pound gold experience the art world in ritual initiation of leaf salt block. Her work will be South Bend. All of these events dismemberment follows; then displayed in the Woman's Art 
arf' should enter contest
and displays are available at gestation/incubation, re-mem­League Gallery at the museum. the South Bend Museum of Art berment, birth and finally the Along with the different dis­on 120 South Joseph Street. resurrection of a more fully plays, the museum will be spon­By KENYA JOHNSON renaissance Society at the Uni­
The three level museum con­integrated person," said Aaron­soring several lectures, all of Accent Editor versity of Chicago, is the tains two galleries, a sales and Taylor about the process which will take place in the mu­selected juror for this year'srental gallery, and a museum through which her art is seum library. On March 30, Bill Itjustmay be their big break. competition. store. There are also several 
created. Tourtillotte, a Nqtre Dame and Saint Mary's She has juried myriadclassrooms. It is open Tuesdays Another exhibit which will be Painter/Printmaker, will be students eager to advance into competitions and exhibitions though Fridays from 11 am to 5 displayed at the museum is giving a lecture entitled the· art scene have the across the country and been a pm, Saturdays and Sundays entitled "Museum Acquisitions: "Traces: Questions and Com­opportunity to submit their panelist for the Illinois Arts 
from noon to 5 pm, and is 1987-1992." This exhibition will ments." work,s to· Sound Bend Regional Council and the National closed Monday. There is a two include 80 works in different On April 6, Dr. Susan Hood, Endowment for the Arts,
MU.S(j:UID ofArt's eighteenthdollar donation at the door. forms of media which reflects Assistant Professor of Division biennial regional art com­according to Rundquist. In the next few months, the museum's acquisition of the Arts at Indiana University petitlo.n; Ghez was also a juror for the several events will take place at philosophy, and it will continue of South Bend, will be giving a "An extensive array of art 1990 Awards in the Visual Ar~. the museum. From now through May 2. The display is a lecture entitled "Connections work is acceptable," said a consultant for the 1991 through April 18, Susan Aaron­collection of 19th and 20th and Relationships." Doug i:nuseum curator Lisa Whitney Biennial as well as a Taylor, a professor in the crafts century works of art of both Cunningham, News Director at Ruridqui$t. "We've had juror for the 1990 and 1992 
department at the Center for aesthetic and historical WVPE-FM will be giving a everything from photography to Louis Comfort TiffanyCreative Studies at the College importance done by regional lecture on April 13 entitled sculptures, from paintings to Foundation Awards. of Art and Design in Detroit, and Indiana artists. "Radio News: What is Covered, "It is truly an honor to have
steelwork." 
will be presenting a display of Since 1989, the museum has her here," said Rundquist.
What is Said, What is Meant." All artists must be 18 years or 
her works. The collection is ti­made an effort to acquire sculp­On April 20, Robert Coleman, older and residing in Illinois, "She's excellent and her judgingtled "Retrospective." tures and has received gifts Assistant Professor of Art Indiana, Michigan or Ohio, will be pretty tough." 
Focusing on dream analysis from artists and patrons over History at Notre Dame, will be according to Rundquist. Works Ghez will decide the following the past five years to further presenting a lecture mustbe from 1991 or later. awards: enhance its collection. "Renaissance Drawing: Working "The catch for students is that • Best of Show for $1000; 
From April 3 through April Studies to Aesthetic Objects." the work must not be a project • two Merit Awards for $500; 30, Mary Dance will be showing Gene Bamber of Bamber's done under instruction, " she and her new work in the Art Market Superette Inc. will be explained. "All works must be • the Invitational Award ( a Sales and Rental Gallery. Her presenting "Running A Family­origlnal-'that includes in one-person show in a portion of display of watercolors were Owned Grocery Store" on April th()ught and development." the Warner Gallery and $100 inspired by her yearly visits to 27. All of the presentations will Jurying will be based on honorarium to be given in 
the Maine coast, and they have run approximately from noon to slides arid will determine which 1994). won numerous awards 1 pm and are free. works will be accepted for There will also be a $2500 
including the Hoosier Salon The South Bend Regional Mu­exhibition. Purchase Award, which would Award. seum of Art offers several "Slides submitted must repre­make that artwork a permanent From April 24 through June different events which provide sent actual work to be delivered part of the museum's 5, Elizabeth Buhr will be an alternative to the Snite. Both to the museum," said collection. Rundquist will make 
displaying her new work at the museums, however, give the Runfiquist. "The juror will that decision. museum. A graduate of St. public a chance to experience make a finalist decision based The deadline for slide submis­Mary's College, Buhr won Best the diverse world of art, and a on the slides and then choose sion is April 1. For more 
of Show in the College's 1991 chance to enjoy art and all of its the winners from displays." information or entry forms call Alumni Exhibition with her beauty. Susanne Ghez, director of The (219) 235-9102. 
Alumni educate through television 
By ELISABETH HEARD Kathleen Sullivan, a member of Bonhomie Counseling Center in showed three different clips and church groups involved Assistant Accent Editor the Alumni Association and one Elkhart; Anthony Berardi, wilich focused on the different with the Alumni Association. of the coordinators of the cliniral psychologist and areas. Michael Collins was the Sites are formed throughout 
Envision white haired men in television show. coordinator at the Family moderator, and during the the country where these groups plaid pants sitting around in On Sunday, March 14, they Learnmg Center in South Bend; broadcast, an 800 number was gather together to watch the dim rooms with plush velvet produced a live, interactive and Thomijs Peterson, marriage shown so that people could call program. The organization even carpet discussing the Rockne telecast entitled "Our Family and family counselor and in. provides an educational packet years. Next picture powerful founder of the Family Education "It was fun," said Berardi. "I to be used while they are men who have the ability to Association of Michiana. would do it again. I really viewing. "Currently, there are hire and refer desperate Sullivan was one of the people learned a lot and felt very about 80 to 100 sites," said
'It is a-·uilique
students to any type of job they who helped to choose the pan­positive about the overall Sullivan, "and about 90 percent might desire. Are these the opportunity for Notre elists. "Once we figured out the experience." of the states participate." images the Alumni Association topic, was knew that we wanted This branch of the Alumni As­At each site there is a site ­brings to mind? Dame to reach the psychologists. We always want sociation, Alumni Continuing leader, and usually the program 
Even though there may be a one Notre Dame professor, and Education, is dedicated to is followed by a discussion hint of truth to these community with then I interviewed psychologists serving the alumni and period. "We have also sold over 

stereotypes, the Alumni Association is much more. It is an organization concerned with the family and education, and wants to spread this message to people throughout the nation. 
Each year, the Alumni Association produces a television show which focuses on different themes ranging from relationships to looking at yourself as a person. "It is a unique opportunity for Notre Dame to reach the community with pressing issues," said 
pressing issues.' -Kathleen Sullivan 
Roots: Why We Are Who We Are," which was shown via satellite and on cable. 
The panel consisted of four experts in the psychology field: Cindy Bergeman, assistant pro­fessor of psychology at Notre Dame; Joann Beathea, founder and executive director of the 
from South Bend," Sullivan said. 
"This telecast was divided up into three specific segments,"said Susan Barkley, Sullivan's secretary. "The first one was on influences, family, authority, parenting, tradition, and feelings. The second one was on relationships, and dealt with things like birth order, and the third segment was titled, Who I Am and looked at where you want to be today." 
Before the segments they 
community through telecasts. The program is in its seventh year, and they now do two shows a year, in March and November. 
"We try to encourage education and community through these outreach programs," said Sullivan. "We must share our education beyond the Notre Dame community." 
When the program began, it started with just five clubs, and now there are over 1 00 schools 800 video tapes of the show," said Sullivan. 
In the beginning, it was a very new concept to the members of the organization. Through persistence and hard work they have come this far, but they are still striving to attain higher goals. "We asked a lot of questions," said Sullivan. "We took the risks to try to get better and reach the people. It began several years ago as a pi­lot, striving to bring groups to­gether." 
Wednesday, March 17, 1993
The Observer 
page 12 

NCAA leftovers strengthen NIT field 
(AP)-Granted some tasty squeezed out of the 64-team leftovers from the NCAA 
field and slid back to the· NIT. tournament plate, the NIT So Powers' tournament inher­showcases a handful of its high. its some of college basketball's profile teams Wednesday night most familiar coaching faces, 
when the nation's oldest including Rollie Massimino, postseason tournament opens Billy Tubbs, Jud Heathcote, Hugh Durham, George Ravel­
for business. 

Ohio State, Oklahoma. Min­ing, Clem Haskins and Randy nesota and UNLV, all frequent Ayres, all in action on opening NCAA participants who were night. -Some of them aren't 
left home this year, host open­thrilled to be there. ing round NIT games. Miami of Ohio (20-8) visits Ohio State, Haskins at Minnesota and Michigan State (15-12) is at Tubbs at Oklahoma were par­
Oklahoma {19-11), Florida (16-ticularly vocal after their teams 
11) plays at Minnesota (17-10) were snubbed from the NCAA 
and Southern Cal (16-11) is at field. Less strident was Mas­simino. In each case, though,
UNLV (21-7). Georgia (15-13) at West Vir­struggling finishes dodmed 
ginia (16-11) and Rice (17-9) at them. All three split their final Wisconsin (14-13) completes 10 games of the season and opening night for the also-ran that weighed heavily on the 
selection committee's choices. 
tournament. 

Jack Powers. executive direc­tor of the NIT, doesn't see his Oklahoma and Michigan State tournament as competition for in particular seemed headed the richer, more prestigious for bigger and better things NCAA showdown, especially this season. The Sooners 
when so many teams are dis­opened at 10-1 and the Spar­tans were 8-1. Both then did U­
appointed about missing out on turns, Oklahoma finishing 9-10 
the big show. 

"We are a springboard for the and Michigan State in a 7-11 NCAAs," Powers said. "We spin. want our teams to do well here and then be able to move on." All that will be forgotten 
Wednesday, though, when the Accordingly, Vrrginia won the second-chance season begins. NIT last year and is the No. 6 "Anytime we have a chance to seed in the NCAA this year. play, we're going to do it," Stanford won the NIT in 1991 Tubbs said. "We've had a tough and moved into the NCAAs last season. This is a chance to get season. The natural progres­together and have some 
sion was reversed this year success." when a number of traditional 
The NIT's first round contin­NCAA heavyweights were ues Thursday. 
Classifieds 
IOC wants athletes "out of the courts" 
ATLANTA (AP) -Olympic of­The litigation issue has been the next Summer Games will be held in the litigious United
ficials, worried about the possi­highlighted by the case of 
bility of more Butch Reynolds Reynolds, the world record­States-Atlanta in 1996. 
cases, moved forward Tuesday holder at 400 meters who went "Having it here does serve to to court to fight a two-year focus the attention," he said.
with plans to require athletes to "But it's a growing problem,
settle their grievances by arbi­doping suspension he claimed was unfair. A U.S. district court one which we've been trying to
tration rather than civil law­judge in Ohio recently awarded come to grips with for some
suits. The athletes' commission of 
him dlrs 27.3 million in dam­time." ages, a verdict the International On the doping issue, the ath­
the International Olympic 
letes' commission observ1~d that
Amateur Athletic Federation

Committee urged the world 
some international federations
body to draw up regulations has refused to accept. 
aren't doing enough to combat
which would discourage com­"The situation with Butch petitors from filing multimil­Reynolds could be disastrous," drug use on a global basis. The commission relnased a
an statement by two of its mem­
lion-dollar suits to challenge said Peter Montgomery. 
drug suspensions or other de­Australian lawyer and former Olympic water polo player who bers, former distance runner
cisions. 
Sebastian Coe and former
"We would like to see sport serves on the athletes' com­downhill skier Ken Head. call­
and the athletes out of the mission. 
Montgomery said a balance ing for uniform drug-testing
courts," said Peter Tallberg, an IOC member and chairman of must be found between protect­procedures and sanctions ing the interests of the athletes around the world. 
the commission. 
Under the proposal, athletes and protecting the interests of Until now, the IOC has as­sumed responsibility for drug­
seeking to compete in the the sporting bodies. Olympics would sign a waiver "We hope the rights of the testing only during the athletes are not restricted un­Olympics. But the athletes
agreeing to go to the IOC's 
duly," he said, "but we also joined the growing chorus forCourt of Arbitration for Sport in hope that the capacity of one the IOC to take a bigger role. 
the event they wanted to pur­"The commission believes that 
sue a grievance. While the athlete to cause chaos in a par­panel's ruling would in theory ticular sport is not allowed to the IOC is uniqu1~ly placed to oversee and police a global
be binding on all parties, U.S. continue." 
Montgomery acknowledged it testing procedure that would
courts frequently refuse to en­would be difficult to convince meet with the approval of ad­
force similar waivers. 
"Everyone who participates in some athletes to give up their ministrator and competitor right to sue -"particularly alike," their statement said. 
the Games would sign up, On the question of prize
saying it's the Court of Arbitra­when there is a lot of money money. tlw commission saidtion for Sport that takes the fi­involved." 
cash awards have no place innal decision, and you don't go Dick Pound, a senior IOC ex­the Olympics. 

to civil courts," Tallberg said. ecutive board member from The athletes' commission also Canada who serves on a special 
condemned what it called "a panel studying the issue, said it Several top track and field lack of resolve" in the fight may take a year to finalize an athletes have threatened to boycott the world outdoor
against doping and urged the arbitration system. Once it is in 
championships in Stuttgart.

IOC to oversee a worldwide place, any athlete refusing to go drug-testing program. On an­along will be left out in the cold, Germany. this summer unless they receive prize money. The
other issue, the panel said the he said. 
lAAF has refused.

Olympics should never offer Pound agreed the issue has become more pressing because
prize money. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every bustness day from 10 a.m to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame OffiCe, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge IS 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
......___No_T_Ic_E_s.....-----~1 TYPING 256-6657  [,...~.?,~..~~..~!.,.,)Ipus Aoom & B oard. Interested  1 ...... ~?.~.~~-~._E......AH. -­$250/mo. Close to Campus. Call  •••sENIORs••• LAST chance to buy SENIOR FORMAL ticketslll  ADOPTION: A loving happy home, financial security, and educational opportunities await your newborn. We can help with your expenses. Please call us collect: David and  NO EXPERIENCE! $500 TO $900 weekly/potential processing FHA mortgage refunds. Own hours. 1­501-646-0503 Ext447. 24 hours.  
person call 708-295·3493.  Paul or Monica 232·2794.  Thurs. March 18 6·9 pm  Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's  Lost Eyeglasses in hard brown  
Room 1 08 LaFortune  help each other.  case. If found call  
Lost and Found  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Jon@ 271-1938.  
For Rent  For Sale  HPC PRESENTS:  Trey, Tom. Ed, and Jers top quotes  
FOUND: SET OF KEYS AT KNOTT­ from Cancun  PASTA CAFE  
BADIN FORMAL ON 2/26. CALL  STEREO COMPONENTS:  Buy a Domer/Bail a Domer  ·Dome! Ed, Delta  1636 N. Ironwood  
ANNE MARIE  1 yr -like new ($900)  Day  -What the I  Mon.-AII-U·Can Eal Spaghetti $3.95  
4-4700.  Staying at ND/SMC lor the  NAD Preamp & Amp  -lm lakin this show outside  Wed.-$2.00 off Any Dinner  
SUMMER?  Philips CD player  Put a pal in jail, or buy the services  -In the heink  
Lost: three keys on a NIKE key  Klipsch speakers  of your favorite campus celebrity.  -She's thinkin, did I leave the iron  CHILDLESS TEXAN COUPLE. NO  
ring. If found please return to  Sub-lease our apartment at  subwooler, tapedeck  on  Grad. Happily married lor 4 years.  
217 Flanner or call X1004  CASTLE POINTI  x1528 Will or Mike  March 18, 1993 in LaFortune  ·Trey, did Karin say HIKE?  Anxious to adopt newborn infant.  
CALL 4-4673 TODAYII  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ·EI Stopo  Personal meeting welcome. Lawful  
LOST: ID case on Tuesday, March  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT  ·EI hando jobo in the hallway  and proper pregnancy related  
2. It was lost in or near the second  YEAR?  Another Lenten Friday, and  -Whos got the roobers  expenses paid. Couple approved by  
floor of the library. II the case or  NEED FURNITURE?  more meatless baked ziti!  -Jerry your nipples are huge  Texas adoption aulhorllies in  
any of its contents have been found,  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  WEHAV~  -Sarah you have the runs doni you  advance of placement. State  
please call Kelley at 273-2990.  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  BEDS  Try some fish &chips at  -1 have friends in the theatre back at  supervised adoption procedures.  
219-291-7153.  COUCHES  SUBWAY  school  Call collect David & Maureen  
REWARD! Ill Lost set of keys  TABLE  -Tom, what did he say?  (512) 452·3416.  
with Ren & Stimpy keychain  Roomate lor next year needed lor  5CHAIRS  Daily meal deals on  
before Spring Break. Call  Castle Point apartment.  ENTERTAINMENT CENTER  Tuna & Crab subs  Pregnant and feeling alone with no  Heading lor EUROPE this summer?  
Ayah x1007.  Call 273-9644 lor more info.  DRESSERS  where to turn? We offer confidential  Jet there anytime lor only $169from  
AND A DESK  And every sunday­ counseling at no cost to you. For  East Coast, $229 from the Midwesl  
LOST: A Gold Signet Ring in  4 BEDAM/3BATHRM SEMI·  CALL 273-2810  Buy 2 feet. get 3rd  more information call Nancy at 232·  (when available) with AIAHITCHI  
Haggar Classroom Building.  FURN. OAKHILL CONDO  FREE! I  5843.  (Reported in Let's Gol & NY  
IF Found PLEASE CALL  4 RENT '93-'94 SUM and/or YEAR  DEB'S TYPING SERVICE 1-656­ nmes.) AIRHITCH (r)  
Katie at 273-1595.  CALL 2n·9452  3038 PICK-UP/DELIVERY  SR 23 & Ironwood  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  212-!:164·2000.  
make dreams lor your baby come  
WANTED  NEED A QUIET PLACE TO WRITE YOUR BOOK OR THESIS? Full  MAN'S BEAUTIFUL DIAMOND RING, 14K GOLD WITH 5  St. Patrick's Day-Day 1 ol2 -:lays in the same week  true. Full-limA !''!:enting. Best of the city; sumrlfels by the beach; your  MATOLA FOOD PRODUCTS ARE INDORSED BY THE  
- PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  Eqp Cottage Palisades Pil Near So Haven Ml (708)446-6118  DIAMONDS. 1/2 CARAT. $300.  dedicaiE>a to PAT BRENNANIII  baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean  "IRONMAN TRIATHLON". FOR INFO CALL "KM CENTER" 291­ 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  288-4071.  Have a blast and prepare lor Day 2  waves in summer. Art, music, the  2964.  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  Newly Remodeled 5br.  on Friday ... birthday time!  best education, endless love. Call  
CALL 1·800· 786-8373.  house lor rent  One-way NW Airline ticket ­ -DAH  Franny or Stephen collect.  
Close to NO, all appliances, security  Chicago to Los Angeles ­ P.S. Still not sure about the  (212)369-2597.  NO Golf  
50,000,000 babies  system, etc.  May 7 · 2pm-$190.00  "sainr part, though  Quality Suites 93  
$650/ mth. 232-8256  Contact Jane 634-4994.  Student Activities is now hiring  Tampa  
WANTED Male Stripper Will pay$50 $60 if Oriental  2 br. Apts lor rent totally remodeled with new  I PERSONAL  -The Sixth Sense-Have you you ever experienced de ja vu? Are horoscopes the first thing  students lor lhe 1993-94 academic year. Positions available as Building Managers, Sound Tachs,  10 P-0-N-D Shop 9 Schmooz em or lose eml  
Call Jen X4633  appliances and lots of space  (l0il91, diiip,EO, diiU tape UBCK)  you turn to? Do you belief in E.S.P?  Room Monitors, Stepan Managers,  8 Is it in the leather?  
truly the best price in town  $150.00 271-1443  Are crystal balls and tarrot cards a  Office Assisstants, Set Up Crew,  7 In the dark, dark ...... a pink jelly  
Call us and compare  Ask lor Steve  way of life lor you?  Information Desk & Games Room  bean!  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  232·8256  OR  Attendants, and more. Stop by 315  6 Pam & Julie are WHAT?  
-fisheries. Earn $600+/week in  Do you think horoscopes and  LaFortune to pick up an  5 Nice rainsuitl  
canneries or $4000+/month on  3-5 person furnished house, SEC  Personal  fortune telling are bogus, perhaps  application.Deadline lor applying is  4 Happy birthday JALISAI  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  Syst, wash/dry, Beach V·Ball, Prime  even sacrilegious?  Friday, March 19.  3 What's he DOING in the  
Room & Board! Over 8000  Locaton 233-9947.  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  We're interested in what you thinkll  bathroom?  
openings. No experience  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  Call the Accent department of The  LEAVING YOUR CAR AT NO FOR  2 "We're from Pitt · OF COURSE  
necessary. Male or Female. For  Oakhill Condo lor rent. 1 bdrm, 2  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  Observer  THE SUMMER? NEED A  we wenl lo HAPPY HOURI"  
emp.-,yment program call 1·206·  bath w/lolt & fireplace & garage.  46615, or call Pager #282-7042.  and talk to Kenya at 631-4540.  CARSITTEA? CALL 4-4092. WILL  1 B-A-U·C-E B. 0-0·W-N-S  
545-4151; ext. A5584  $650/mo. One year lease beginning  PAY$$$.  
May '93. Call317-297-8485for info.  


March 17, 1993 

' ••••• ••••• ••••• •••••• ............. ••••• ••••• •••••• •••••• •
• . .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. . 0 
'fit
l' toi • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • /"'
. ~ ,.., ".;{' . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ r '*'· ~ "
,.,--.... .~ } 0 ..... . . ....... ...... ...... . ....... ...... . . ', ' C> 
"--"' ,\• .-:: : :: •• : : :: :: : •• : : '._<"-.,; ., "J,· ....::::..-~ 
~ ·.....··.....··.....·:·.:...... :.....··.....·: :·.:.....· '" 
TRANSACTIONS NBA STANDINGS NBA STATS MLB STANDINGS 
BASEBALL Commlaaloner'e Office 
COMMISSIONER'S OFACE-Named Paler N.T, Wlddrtngton adminatrator and Dick Wagner assistant to the chairmen of the executive council. American League 
DETROIT TIGERS-sent Frank Gonzales and Mike Lumley, pitchers; Ivan Cruz, Infielder; Riccardo Ingram and Jody Hurst; outfielders; and Rico Brogna, first baseman, to Toledo of the international League. Sent Denny Bautista, outfielder, to London of the Eastern League. 
MINNESOTA TWIN5-0pUoned Jayson Best, Oscar Munoz and Alan Newman, pitchers; Steve Dunn and Denny Hocking, Infielders, end Marty Cordova, outfielder, to Nashville of the Southam League. Optioned Paul Russo, third baseman, to PorUand of the Pacific Coast League. Sent Darrln Chapin and Rob Wassenaar, pitchers, end Ray Ortiz, ou1flalder, to their minor-league camp lor assignment. 
SEATTLE MARINER5--Piaced Mike Schooler, pitcher, on waivers lor the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. Optioned Roger Salkeld and Jeff Darwin, pitchers, to Calgary of the Pacific Coast League. National League 
ATLANTA BRAVES-San! Mike Blrkbeck, Dennis Burlingame, Mike Loynd, Napolean Robinson, Donnie Strange, Jeff Johnson, Vance Lovelace and Dale Polley, pitchers; Mike Mordecai, Infielder; Ron Jones, Mike Kelly and Mike Lege, outfielders; end Mark Bailey, catcher, to their minor league camp lor reassignment. 
CHICAGO CUBS-Optioned Phil Dauphin, outfielder, and Dave Slavens, pitcher, to Iowa of the American Association. BASKETBALL United Statea Baaketball League 
ATLANTA EAGLES-Named Joel Freedman director of sales and merchandise. FOOTBALL National Football League 
CHICAGO BEAS-81gn,d Trace Armstrong, defensive end, and Reggie Cooper, linebacker, to multiyear contracts. 
DALLAS COWBOYs-signed Charles Haley, defensive end, to a three-year 
contract. 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOT5--Signed Leon Seals, defanslva end. 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANNERs-
Signed Robert Claiborne, wide racelver. 
HOCKEY 
International Hockey League 
INDIANAPOLIS ICE-Fired John 
Marks, coach, and Jim Playlalr, assistant coach. 
PEORIA RIVERMAN-signed Mark 
Reeds, right wing, to a 25-game tryout. 

Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: a lot of Macintosh for an affordable price. 
The bestinvestments 
startwith inside information. 
Built-in /'ideo support lets you add up to a 16"Apple display 
Add up to Sl!11en external hard disk

driz•es. scanners or other tkt•ices through the SCSIport. 
It runs Ol'er 4.000 Macintosh programs. ll'hich all u·ork in the same. ~ consistent. intuifil'e U'ill'. 
Abuilt-in SuperDriz•e·· disk drit•e readsfrom and urites to Macintosh-and MS-DOSformatted disks. 

Ascreaming 25 MH:: 68030 microprocessor helps the Macintosh LC Ill computer run up to 50%faster than its best-selling predecessor. 
4MB ofRAM is standard For complex graphics or engineering programs. you canl!l•etz expand 
Its infernal disk driz•e comes in your LC up to 36MB. 
three big sizes: 40MB. 80MB or 160MB. So you can store lots ofpapers. /elfers. notes. ideas. 
When you know what we've built into the new Macintosh' LC III computer, its low price tag looks even better. Its the successor to Apple's top-selling personal computer-the Macintosh LC II. And it has even more speed, power and flexibility. Plus built-in networking, built-in file 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
·.vrrice i.( tlrailttbleon(rfrom Apple Campu.\· Re.wllers u·hich tlfl' :tpple .~ufbori:ed Strticf Proritlm. ©1993 :lpple Computer. Inc. All rip.bts rtSl!rlwl Apple. the .W1fe logo. .1/acinto.dJ and ··'fbeporter lobe your besr ore regfJ/ered trmlemari..( of.'V'Pft> Computer. Inc. Su{lfrDrh'l! i.~ n lratlemttrk of..Jpple Computer. luc. .11.\'·~ t.;a registered tmdemtlri of.llicrosojl Corporation. 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
ScoringAtlantic Division 
G FG

w L Pet GB L10 Struk 
Jordan, Chi. 59 744NewYor1< 43 18 .705 8·2 Won 7 Wilkins, All. 51 534New Jersey 36 28 .581 71/2 8·4 Lost 1 K. Malona, Utah 82 805Boston 33 28 .541 10 7-3 l.ost 2 Mullin, G.S. 48 474Orlando 29 30 .492 13 4-8 l.ost 2 Barkley, Phoe. 59 549Miami 27 33 .450 151/29-1 Won 3 Olajuwon, Hou. 61 611Philadelphia 20 40 .333 221/2 2-6 Lost 3 O'Neal, Ort. 59 542Washington 17 43 .283 251/2 2·8 Won 1 Ewing, N.Y. 59 575Central Diviaion Dumars, Del 58 518Chicago 43 20 .883 7-3 Won 1 Robinson, SA 60 484Cleveland 41 22 .651 2 7-3 Won 1 Petrovic, N.J. 80 511Charlotte 33 29 .532 91/2 5·5 Lost 1 Johnson, Char. 81 580Atlanta 32 31 .508 11 8·4 Won 8 Manning, LAC 82 550Indiana 29 32 .475 13 6-4 Lost 2 Hardaway, G.S. 58 451Detroit 27 33 .450 141/2 6-4 Won 2 Miller, Ind. 81 424Milwaukee 24 38 .387 18 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 Lewis, Bos. 59 481WESTERN CONFERENCE Daugherty, Clev. 53 394Midweat Dlvlalon Hawkins, Phil. 58 397
w L Pet GB LID Struk 
Coleman, N.J. 58 399Houston 40 21 .658 10-o Won 13 Schremp!, Ind. 61 397

San Antonio 38 22 .833 1 1/2 4·8 Lost 1 Utah 36 26 .581 41/2 3-7 Won 1 Field Goal PercentageDenver 25 36 .410 15 5-5 Lost 2 FGMinnesota 14 45 .237 25 2-8 Lost 5 Daugherty, Clev. 394Dallas 4 57 .066 38 0·10 Lost 19 Thorpe, Hou. 270Pacific Dlvlalon O'Neal, Ort. 542Phoenix 46 14 .767 7-3 Lost 1 
K. Malone, Utah 805Seattle 42 20 .677 5 7-3 Won 1 Ceballos, Phoe. 237Portland 36 23 .810 9 1/2 5·5 Won 1 Brickowski, Mil. 399LA Lekers 33 28 .541 13 1/2 6-4 Won 1 Nance, Clev. 420LA Clippers 31 32 .492 16 1/2 3-7 Lost 1 Dumas, Phoe. 240Golden State 25 36 .410 21 1/2 3·7 Lost 4 Carr, SA 285Sacramento 20 41 .328 26 1/2 3-7 Won 2 Olajuwon, Hou. 611

Monday's Games Washington 105, Cleveland 101 ReboundingLA Lekers 92, Sen Antonio 87 G OffChicago 101, LA Clippers 94 Rodman, Oat 40 231Utah 109, Dallas 96 O'Neal, Ort. 59 257Miami 103, Denver 100, OT Olajuwon, Hou. 61 210PorUand 110, New Jersey 94 Mutombo, Den. 61 248Tuesday's Games Barkley, Phoe. 59 202Late Games Not Included Willis, All. 80 247New Vorl< 102, Milwaukee 99 Robinson, S.A. 60 169Atlanta 122, Charlotte 1 07 Ewing, N.Y. 59 150Cleveland 110, Philadelphia 98 Seikaly, Mia. 52 183Denver at Minnesota, (n) K. Malone, Utah 62 185Boston at Golden State, (n) 

Orlando at Houston, (n) AaalataMiami at Sea!Ue, (n) G NoDetroit at Sacramento Stockton, Utah 62 762Wednesday's Games Hardaway, G.S. 58 625Atlanta at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
Skiles, Ort. 59 555Washington at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. 
Bogues, Char. 61 564Milwaukee at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. 
M. Jackson, LAC 83 568Orlando at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. 
Thomas, Del. 57 511Detroit at Utah, 9 p.m. 
Williams, Minn. 55 479Portland at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. 
Anderson, N.J. 55 448San Antonio at LA Lekers, 10:30 p.m. 
Blaylock, All. 61 487Thursday's Games Murdock, Mil. 59 460 
Minnesota at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. New Vorl< at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Boston at Denver, 9 p.m. Sacramento at Sea!Ue, 10 p.m. Miami at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Houston at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 

sharing and more. See the new Macintosh LC III today by visiting your Apple Campus Reseller. Where you'll get special student pricing, as well as service during college: And discover the power of Macintosh. The .,_ power more college students choose. The power to be your bese .. 
FT 
383 384 
501 
183 
352 
314 
333 262 
248 
418 
290 
245 289 248 328 238 
292 
303 
317 
426 
FQA 
688 
460 964 1086 426 727 770 
448 
495 1153 
Oaf 520 564 573 527 539 503 550 550 425 527 
Avg 12.3 10.8 9.4 9.2 9.0 9.0 8.7 8.2 8.1 7.8 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
w  L  Pet.  
Milwaukee  9  2  .818  
New York  10  3  .789  
Baltimore  7  3  .700  
Minnesota  8  5  .815  
Taxes  8  6  .500  
California  8  7  .482  
Oakland  8  7  .482  
Cleveland  5  7  .417  
Kansas City  5  7  .417  
Chicago  5  8  .385  
Boston  4  7  .384  
Detroit  3  8  .273  
Toronto  3  9  .250  
Seattle  2  10  .187  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
w  L  Pet.  
Philadelphia  7  2  .778  
ClnciMaU  7  4  .836  
Florida  8  5  .615  
Pittsburgh  7  5  .583  
San Diego  7  5  .583  
Chicago  8  6  .571  
Montreal  5  4  .558  
Los Angeles  6  5  .545  
Colorado  6  6  .500  
Houston  6  6  .500  
Sen Francisco  6  7  .482  
StLouis  4  6  .400  
New York  4  6  .400  
Atlanta  4  8  .333  

NOTE: Splij-squad games count In standings, tlao or college games do not Monday's Games Montreal 2, Atlanta 1 New Vorl< Mats 6, Florida 5 Los Angeles 3, Houston 1 
Baltimore 6, Mimesota 3 Cincinnati 3, Sl Louis 2 Boston 1 0, Delroij 2 

Philadelphia 6, New Vorl< Yankees 3 Pittsburgh 5, Chicago White Sox 4 Kansas City 2, Tor onto 1 Cleveland 4, Taxes 2 San Diego 8, Oakland 5 Sen Francisco (ss) 8, Sea!Ue 3 Colorado (ss) 5, Milwaukee (ss) 4 Chicago Cubs (ss) 10, Calnomla (ss) 3 Chicago Cubs (ss) 6, San Francisco (ss) 1 Milwaukee (ss) 4, Colorado (ss) 4, tie, 11 Innings 
Tuesday's Games 

Leta Games Not included MiMesota 13, New Vorl< Yankees 1 Cincinnati 6, Houston 2 Cleveland (ss) 2, Kansas City (ss) 1 Los Angeles vs. Montreal at West Palm Beach 
Fla., ccd. rain ' Florlda (ss) 9, Oerolt 8 Florlda (ss) 3, Chicago White Sox (ss) 2 Kansas City (ss) 11, Atlanta 3 Tor onto 4, Sl Louis 3 Pittsburgh 8, Taxes 3 Sea!Ue 12, California o San Diego 7, Chicago Cubs 3 
-
--
Pta 1914 1520 1715 1191 1502 1536 1417 1413 1365 1409 1383 1383 1393 1233 1285 1208 1081 1174 1130 1228 
Pet .574 .563 .562 .557 .558 .549 .545 .538 .535 .530 
Tot 751 821 783 773 741 750 719 700 
608 
712 
Avg 32.4 29.8 27.7 25.9 25.5 25.2 24.0 23.9 23.5 23.5 23.1 22.7 22.5 21.3 21.1 20.4 20.4 20.2 20.2 20.1 
Avg 18.8 13.9 12.8 12.7 12.6 12.5 12.0 11.9 11.7 11.5 


--------~­
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBAl.~I.J CHAl'rfPIONSHIP 1993 
1st Round: 2nd Round: Regional Regional Regional Regional 2nd Round: 1st Round: March 18-19 March 20-21 Semifinals Finals Finals Semifinals March 20-21 March 18-19 
1) North Carolina 28-4 

.. ---I .. -----(·::~;,;::::;';;;-i Wln~::;:;",";.'T2_£·~--:1::~~~:~•:;' :, 
, 4) Arkansas 20-8 
~ 13) HolyCross 23-6 East Rutherford, N.J. 
6) Virginia 19-9 

March 26 & 28 ······· ~ 11 ) Manhattan 23-6 
3) Massachusetts 23-6 

( 14) Pennsylvania ~;-~ Syracuse, N.Y. March 19 & 21 7) New Mexico St. 25-7 
National Championship AprilS 

j... ---;;;i~~:~::
.. 
New Orleans April3 
1) Indiana 28-3 __ 
..11.Ml91:11QM.g!H..........l 

................................... ~ 
1:)~=:~~~;~:Q~:~..

'··········· ...........................,.............................., 
............... ····I 1:~ :~::~~::~;..····· 
. i 9) Xavier, Oh10 23-5
9lUCLA2J~JQ ... ~ --····--····-·--·--··-Indianapolis ... ........ · Tucson, Ariz. .. .. ·-···················-···· 
March 19 & 21 5) Oklahoma St. 19-8 
..Eil.N~.\Y.M~)(i(;()..?.:•Hl.) March 19 & 21 
1 . ·-··················-·............._., 
( 12) Marquette 20.7 
2)Geo. WasiJJngton .19-8 
~ 

41 G.~e>rQi!l I~.c.l:l., .1.~-.1 o · · ........ ················ 4) Louisville 2Q.8 
13) Southam U, ?D-9 • -·--·-··-·-····--·-· {13.)~~.~~~.~.~!..........
Seattle 

6) Illinois 18-12 .. . March 26 & 28 March 25 & 27 6) Cal~omia 19-8 11).J,..e.ea.ch.SI•..~c.9.....J··......................................., 
3)Van.9~rbil! ?.6.7~L..... --· ---· · ................................... J14) Southam Illinois 22-9 
14)BoiseSt.21-7 l HH............................... ~ 
· · ·· ············· ···· ............. r Salt Lake City .................. . 
~~~;;1~n!: ~~ \ -7; ·~~~~~·~~~~~ ·;~·
7) Temple 17-12 March 18 & 20 
1;; ~:~::~:-~~:~~1.~ ....J ---·-·-·---0 "' •• ,,H .......................H.. •• • .... .... ...... ... J ··· ~ 1~: =~:~::st 2().7 
' ........................... ~~~)Ball St. 26-7 .
15)Sa.n\a .Clara 11H1 ~ ······································· 


AP 

"Quality without compromise" \~----~-----------·--------------------~--~--~ CAMPUS~ VIEW APARTMENTS • The Campus View "No Nonsense" Lease is the Best and that's a Fact. Fact #1 We offer a 9 and 12 month lease that beats any competitor's lease. Fact #2 We pay all utilities-no surprises-no hidden charges. Fact #3 Every unit is furnished-all you do is move in. Fact #4 We feature on site management and tl1e best security. Fact #5 Two baths in every two bedroom unit. Fact #6 Fair, honest, professional management-we care! Fact #7 We can help if you have a desire to sub... lease. Fact #8 We have an all student complex. Let us help you with your bottom line costs. Call Dorene at 272~ 1441  


Wednesday, March 17,1993 The Observer page 15 
It doesn't get any easier for the No. 16 seeds 
Check out the record: 0-for­
32. That's what the four No. 16 seeds in the NCAA basketball tournament face. 
Is it daunting? 

"I don't think our kids are going to be in awe," Wright State coach Ralph Underhill said. 
Considering Wright State is facing top-ranked Indiana in the first round of the Midwest Regional on Friday at Indi­anapolis, that's saying some­thing. 
Since the tournament went to 64 teams in 1985, no 16th­seeded team has ever won. In fact, last year, all four lost, by an average of 26 points. 
Just to make it a little tougher this year, the top seeds in each of the four regionals each re­ceived first-place votes in the final Associated Press poll, and all four have been ranked No.1 at some point this season. 
Still, Underhill speaks for his team -although not necessar­ily the other three bottom seeds -when he says: "To be playing a great team like Indiana ... that's what they live for. That's what they've wanted to do. They're excited, and I'm excited." 
And why not? They have 
nothing to lose but one more 
game. 

Wright State, which earned its first NCAA tournament bid by winning the Mid-Continent Conference, is 20-9. The best record among the bottom seeds belongs to Coastal Carolina (22-9), which faces Michigan in the first round of the West Re­gional, also on Friday. 
Thursday's two No. 1 vs. No. 16 games are Kentucky vs. Rider, with a respectable 19·10 record, in the Southeast Re­gional, and North Carolina vs. East Carolina, with a miserable 13-16 mark, in the East Re­gional. 
There will be 16 games on each of the first two days of the tournament, when the field will be cut in half. The Final Four will be held in New Orleans on April 3-5. 
Underhill brings a 317-113 record in 15 seasons at Wright State into the NCAA tourna­ment. The Raiders won the Di­vision II national title in 1983. 
"Indiana is a great basketball team," Underhill said. "But I think we can match up well in certain situations." 
Just to alleviate any 

confusion, Coastal Carolina is 
in South Carolina, and South 
Carolina's not in the 
tournament. East Carolina is in 
North Carolina, and North 
Carolina is in the East 
Regional. 
Coastal Carolina will be in 

Arizona in the West Regional .. 
"The best thing for us to do is 
circle the wagons and pray for 
a dust storm," Coastal coach 
Russ Bergman said. "If that 
happens out in Arizona, then 
we've got a good shot." 
Bergman wasn't quite as 

hopeful as Underhill. 

GRADUATE 
and UNDERGRADUATE COURSES DAY and EVENING CLASSES 
BUSINESS ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS COMPUTERSCIENCE NATURAL SCIENCE SOCIAL SCIENCES 
EDUCATION LANGUAGES COUNSELING SESSION I HUMANITIES 
Wednesday, June 2 
THE ARTS
to Wednesday, June 30 
NURSING 
SESSIONll Friday, July 2 to Monday, August 2 
CONTINUOUS REGISTRATION until the day before each session begins. REGISTER NOW! 
For Summer Bulletin, write: SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE Or, if you prefer, call: 

Villanova, PA 19085 I I Please mail me acurrent Summer Bulletin. I 
II N~e-----------------------------------I I 
1 Address ---------------------I 
1 I 
I ~~~ I 
~-----------------~~ 
"Slumping" Kansas still shooting well 
LAWRENCE, Kan. (AP) -For a team locked in a six-week slump, that's an impressive shooting percentage Kansas is carting into the NCAA tourna­ment. 
No wonder Roy Williams leaps to his offense's defense. . 
"Our overall shooting per­centage is 51.2," Williams said a few hours after his ninth­ranked Big Eight champs drew No. 2 seed in the Midwest Re­gional. "It was 51.5 last year. Now we're 51.2. And that is the lowest in the five years our staff has been here." 
Despite a 25-6 record and their third straight Big Eight ti­tle, however, the Jayhawks haven't shot consistently well since late January. At their zenith last winter, Williams' team was knocking them down at a nation-leading 55.6 percent clip, a school record had they kept it up. 
But one cold January night at home, favored by 16 points, their touch deserted them. Since that shocking 64-49 loss to Long Beach State, there hasn't been a single game against a Division I opponent when they shot better than 50 percent. 
Against Oklahoma State, the Jayhawks shot 23.5 percent in the first half, their worst in Williams' five-year reign. In the loss to Kansas State last weekend in the Big Eight tour­nament, they suffered through one of their poorest nights in memory. 
"We missed two dunks and 
made four of 13 shots inside the 
three-second lane," Williams 
acknowledged. "What am I 
supposed to say to them: 'Make 
the shots?' I think our kids want 
to make those shots." 
In a six-game span where they 
went 3-3 in Big Eight games, 
senior guards Rex Walters and 
Indiana 
continued from page 20 
play." 
The Hoosiers' lone front-court reserve, 6-8 freshman Brian Evans, has found foul trouble quickly in three of the last four games. Evans, whose play has been brilliant at times this sea-
CELEBRATE 

BOB & KATHY MYERS 
Will Entertain You with An Irish Tale Or Two 

WED., MARCH 17 8:30pm 
If on a journey, you meet a red-haired woman, what should you do? 
What beverage, traditionally associated 
with Ireland, means, in its Irish 
form, "Water of Life"? 
Come and find out the answers to these and many more! 
..•......•..410! 

AP File Photo Kansas coach Roy Williams defends his offense, which many people have criticized over the last half of the season. 
Adonis Jordan went particularly cold. By this time, defenses had figured out ways to stop much of Kansas' inside play. Those back-door layups weren't coming nearly so easy for Eric Pauley and Richard Scott. 
They were forced to rely on their outside shooting, and sometimes it wasn't to be found. 
"I think sometimes, especially at home, we wanted so much to do well that we would force things," said Walters, who av­eraged 14.2 points and was named All-Big Eight a second straight year. "Everybody felt like they needed to play the 
son, has gone three-for-11 (.273) from the field in that stretch, missing all six of his 3­point attempts and averaging just 1.8 points. 
Indiana won all four games. 
*"Everybody talks about their size, but it hasn't seemed to hurt them up to now," said Wisconsin coach Stu Jackson, whose team lost to Indiana 87­80 on Sunday. 

game of their life every night and take up the slack." 
Jordan, bothered by a hairline stress fracture in the lower leg, dropped from first-team to honorable mention on the all­conference team but still aver­aged almost 12 points. 
"Rex and Adonis in particular ge.t a little tight worrying about how their play is being per­ceived by those NBA scouts who come to every game," Williams said. "It's a normal reaction. 
''I'm not satisfied with our shooting percentage. But at the same time, I look at a few things that are more important. 
"I think any time you have coach Knight coaching a team you have a chance, no matter who you put out there. They look very solid." 
Indiana has shot 55.4 percent from the field, 45.8 percent from 3-point range (44 for 96), averaged only 11.2 turnovers and been outrebounded only 
190-188 without Henderson. 
PLEASE, OBSERVE ALL SMOKING LAWS. 
Alternative Lifestyles 
Meeting others like yourself isn't always easy. How can you lead a loving and fulfilled life without making a public statement? We offer a confidential network through which you can get to know others like yourself without leaving the privacy of your own home. Write for free information. 
AlterNet 

18115 State Rd. 23, #238 South Bend, IN 4663 7 
.... 
page 16 The Observer Wednesday, March 17, 1993 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
have lost, but we didn't get any key hits." "We played pretty well," commented Alford. "It was a learning experience, because we lost some games we should have won." Two Irish seniors were absent from the lineup because of injuries. Designated hitter Sh­()ri Quinn and third baseman Debbie Boulac missed the trip. Quinn continues to battle mononucleosis, while Boulac suffered a stress fracture in her foot. "Sheri's one of our top hitters and her absence has affected us," said Miller. "Our other players need to pick up the slack." "We missed Sheri's bat in the lineup," echoed Alvarez. As for Boulac, the Irish will miss her defense at the hot corner. "Players stepped in and did a good job on the trip," said Miller. "Sara Hayes, Andrea Keys and Jenna Knudson played well considering it was their first experience out there." In addition to Alford on the 
moun , sen , along with freshman Kara 
Brandenburg and Terri Kobata 
SPORTS BRIEFS
will provide innings. Kobata, an impact player from Villa Park, CA. joins an impressive group of freshman. Knudson provides insurance at the infield spots. Brandenburg will pitch and play the outfield, while Andrea Kollar gives speed to the bench. "All the freshman are getting time," said Miller. "They're a valuable part of our team." Another plus for the Irish will be new facilities on campus. "The complex provides a more structured environment for our team," realized Miller. "It's a pride thing, and it will be a great feeling to be on the field." Another plus for the Irish will be the new ball instituted by the NCAA in order to increase home runs, and generate more offense. "It's more lively, and it will have an effect both offensively and defensively," said Miller. The Irish will play in the In­diana State Tournament this weekend against Missouri, Western Illinois, Indiana State and Green Bay-WI. "This weekend is important to us be­cause of the regional competi­tion," said Miller. "We hope to 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
play and continue to improve." 
Senior Debbie Boulac missed the Spring break trip with a stress fracture in her foot. 
Sign ups for SMC lnterhall soccer and volleyball will be Thursday March 18 at 6 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. For more information call 284­5549. Aikido Club will have practice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Hockne.  
Conserve water: shower with a friend  


1stons expected to fire Rothstein AUBUUN HILLS, Mich. {AP Detroit Pistons coach Ro othstein will be fired at th nd of the season and assistan oach Don Chaney is in line fo he job, according to a repor ublished Tuesday. "It basically revolves aroun hat the players want. An hey don't want (Rothstein ack next season," a sourc ithin the organization tol ooth Newspapers. The news aper group did not identif e source. Pistons president Tom Wilso enied the report and Roth ·tein said he doesn't kno ything about it. "It hasn't been discussed b e organization. ( will tell yo hat," Wilson told Booth. 'Til be here as long as the ant me," Rothstein sai esda.y at Pistons practice i acramento, Calif., where th earn was to play the Kings o esda.y night. A unidentified player als old Booth that Hothstein won' eturn next year and tha haney, the NBA coach of th ear with the Houston I~ocke 1991, will take over the earn before the June draft. Rothstein was named as th istons' 18th head coach i ay to replace Chuck Daly ho coached the team to tw hampionships. Daly is coac ow at New Jersey. Detroi as struggling with a 27·3· ecord entering Tuesda. ight's game. OrganizationalMeeting Thursday,March 18, T993 7:30p.m. Old Oub Room in LaFortune  WEDNESDA'{ MARCH 17 ENTRANCE IVIUSIC FOOD R'EFRESHMENTS featuring: ACCESS DENI'ED time: 9:00 pm -midnight location: LaFortune Ballr~:>om VCR Gift c:ertificates (to dinner at favorite local restaurants) STUDEN,r ACTIVITIES STUDENT UNION BOARD  

Wednesday, March 17, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Ewing lifts Knicks over Bucks, Warriors lose again 
NEW YORK (AP) -Patrick Warriors. 63 with 8:53 left in the quarter. Ewing kept a hot hand with 35 The Warriors, never in the The Celtics answered with a points on 14-for-20 shooting, game after the second quarter, 15-point run, capped by Ab­and the New York Knicks won lost their fifth straight and sev­delnaby's putback of Robert their 12th consecutive home enth in their last eight games. Parish's miss that made it 86­game and seventh straight Boston broke a two-game losing 63 with 4:59 left in the period. overall, 102-99 Tuesday night streak. over the Milwaukee Bucks. Abdelnaby, acquired by ATLANTA 122 
Ewing, 24 for 32 in his last Boston from Milwaukee on Dec. CHARLOTTE 107 two games, hit two dunks and a 4, hit 12 of 13 shots and pulled CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) jumper in a 1-minute span down 10 rebounds. He fell one There's a simple formula for down the stretch, giving the point shy of tying his career success for the Atlanta Hawks Knicks a 99-93 lead with 1:51 high. these days-make sure Dum­left after the Bucks cut an 11-Sherman Douglas had 19 inque Wilkins scores 30 or point deficit to one in the fourth points and 10 assists for more points. quarter. Boston, which began a four-Wilkins scored 38 points 
Two free throws and a jumper game Western road swing. Tuesday night as the Hawks by Milwaukee's Fred Roberts, Latrell Sprewell had 22 points won their sixth-straight game, who scored 12 of his 18 points and Chris Gatling 18 for the beating the Charlotte Hornets in the fourth quarter, made it Warriors, who haven't won 122-107. 101-99 with 20 seconds left. since losing All-Star point It was also Wilkins' sixth­Ewing missed three of four free guard Tim Hardaway to a straight game of 30-plus points. throws in the final seconds, but bruised right knee on March 3. "We're playing a lot of team the Bucks didn't come close on Riding a hot-shooting first ball," Wilkins said, downplaying two 3-point attempts. half, the Celtics capitalized on his contribution to the Hawks 
their fast-break opportunities hot streak. "We're playing hard BOSTON 114 and held a 96-71 lead entering and getting a lot of team GOLDEN STATE 88 the final period. They shot 59 defense. That makes it a lot 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Alaa Ab-percent for the game. easier to win. delnaby had 25 points and Up 64-51 at halftime, the "This team is maturing. Guys Kevin Gamble 23, helping the Celtics broke it open in the know their roles and play their Boston Celtics to a 114-88 vic-third period, building the lead roles. If we continue to do that AP File Photo tory Tuesday to 25 points. A basket by Billy we'll win." Goiden State remained winless since the loss of guard Tim 
--rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~w~e~n~s~c!!!u!!!t~B~o~s~to~n~·s~le;a~d~to~7~1~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~os~i~;1$14$-~88 to Boston Tuesday night. 
Ismail gets permission to talk to Raiders 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Raghib "Rocket" Ismail has received permission from Toronto Arg­onauts owner Bruce McNall to talk with the Los Angeles Raiders about playing in the NFL. 
"We are going to see what interest they (the Raiders) may have," said Bob Woolf, who represents the former Notre Dame Heisman Trophy winner. 
Ismail, who has played two seasons in the Canadian Foot­ball League and has two more years remaining on his $18 million contract with the Arg­onauts, was selected by the Raiders in the fourth round of the 1991 NFL draft. At that time, he already had an­nounced his plans to play in Toronto. 
Woolf said he met with re­cently with McNall, who is the majority owner of the Arg­onauts and also owns the NHL's Los Angeles Kings, and McNall told him to explore the possibilities for Ismail in the NFL. 
"Right now, he is committed to Toronto," Woolf said Tues­day by telephone from his Mi­ami office. "We are going to explore the possibilities in the NFL then report back to Mr. McNall." 
Asked Ismail's feelings about the situation, Woolf said: "He would like to return to Toronto, but in everyone's heart, they would like to see what they can do in the NFL. When Raghib came out, he would have been the No. 1 pick in the draft. ... 
••Mptttt~t~ 
:BARBER SHOP : 
.HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 • • SAT 8:00-3:00 • 2112 South Bend Avenue • 
• 

Appointments if desired • • 272,6722 • Serving tfu 'J{gtrt 'Dame • • comnwnityfor over 30 years •
............ 



page 18 The Observer Wednesday, March 17, 1993 
Sponsored By: 
By AlAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

Going into Spring Break, the 22nd ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team was looking for aliJII~ ,
11111 ,, 
11

breakthrough., ·N~' ,;;Iff./, In a schedule riddled with r a n k e d opponents, the Irish had failed to record a win over a team in Faustmann 
the top 25. 

Their breakthrough finally seemed to come when they upended 19th-ranked Kansas 5-4 in Lawrence. The momentum of the upset, however, was stopped just days later when the Irish were beaten by unranked South Florida 6-3. 
For much of the season, strong play at the high singles and doubles spots has fueled the Irish in their victories. Against Kansas, though, it was the play of the lower seeded players that enabled the upset. 
After dropping the top two singles matches the Irish won three of the four bottom spots, battling to a 3-3 tie after the singles matches. 
"The last two matches that were going on were very important," said head coach Jay Louderback. 
"llolyn Lord played a great match at number six and won 6-4, 6-3. But Christy Faust­mann's match was even bigger. She beat a player who played number one at Clemson last year and was ranked 24th to start this year. Christy played a great three-set match to beat her [7-5, 5-7, 7-5]." 
Senior Lisa Tholen also won her number-four singles match 
Don't Drink and Drive on St. Patrick's Day 
GRADUATION Student Workers 
FREE Room and Board May 7-16 $5.80/hour 
Sign up starting March 16 
10 a.Dl.-4 p.nt. 
Lower level­South Dining Hall 
6-4, 6-4. 
In doubles, the top Irish team of Wendy Crabtree and Tholen faced a Jayhawk duo ranked 14th nationally and fell 5-7, 2­6. 
Again, though, the second and third spots came through for the Irish, preserving the upset. 
At number two, Faustmann and Lord cruised to a 6-1, 6-4 win, while at number three Vitale paired with Ennie Bende, winning 6-4, 6-4. 
"Kansas was a team we needed to beat, and we did," said Louderback. ''I'm really very pleased with our play from top to bottom. Both Kansas' top singles and doubles spots are top-ranked nationally, so those were tough matches." 
Just four days after this upset, the Irish traveled to Tampa, FL. to challenge South Florida of the Metro Conference. Notre Dame fell behind 2-4 after singles and was never able to recover, bowing 3-6. 
"We had only hit for two days on the outdoor courts," explained Louderback, "and we looked like it. We just did not play well and we need to reach a point where we can go out and just play our game outdoors." 
Tholen and Lord were the only Irish players to win their singles matches, each of them in three-set matches. 
Tholen, playing the number­four spot, fell 4-6 in the first, but recovered to win the next two sets 6-4, 6-1. At number six, Lord rolled 6-0 in the first, faltered 5-7 in the second, and preserved the victory with a 7-5 third-set win. 
In doubles Crabtree and Tholen won handily in two sets, 6-3, 6-2. 

Fencers se!t sights on the NCAAs 
•
I •

The Observer/Jake Peters A strong performance at the Midwest Regional Fencing Championships last week put the Notre Dame fencing teams in a good position hElading into the NCAA Championships later this month. 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
SportsWriter 
On Saturday, March 6, the Notre Dame fencing squad competed in the Midwest Re­gional Fencing Championships at Cleveland State University. The results of the weekend strengthened the Irish's posi­tion heading into the NCAA Championships in Detroit March 26-31. 
Due to their efforts in the Midwest Regionals, the Irish foil, epee, and women's foil teams all qualified for the team competition at the national championships, while the sabre squad was selected as an alternate. 
Senior Jeff Piper took first place as he went undefeated against midwest opponents. Sophomore Stan Brunner's third place finish and junior Rian Girard's sixth place effort helped the foil team to take a number one seed out of the midwest heading into the na-
SUNDAY MARCH 21 
4:00PM 
STEPAN CENTER ND CAMPUS 
tionals at the end of the month. ltwasjuniorGregWozniakwho led the Irish in the epee division. Wozniak's number two finish coupled with fourth and fifth place finishes by se­niors Per Johnsson and Geoff Pechinsky respectively, helped the epee squad take the num­ber one position in the midwest. 
Senior Bernie Baez and sophomore Chris McQuade took the sixth and seventh places, while Chris Hajnik finished in thirteenth place among the sabremen. 
It is still to be determined if the sabre team will move from alternate status to a competitor at the nationals, but men's coach Mike DeCicco sees their invitation as a key to a top-four finish by the Irish as a team. As it stands, only Columbia, Yale, and Penn State have qualified all four teams in the NCAA Championship team competition. 
For the women, senior 
Kathleen Vogt took fifth place in the foil competition, as freshman Claudette deBruin finished sixth. Juniors Kim Arndt and Corrine Dougherty took ninth and eleventh, re­spectively. It was Ohio State coming out of the midwest as the number one team, but the Irish women were close behind and look to make some noise at the championships. 
Overall, the Irish qualified seven fencers for individual competition, along with three alternates. Among the alter­nates are Bernie Baez and Claudette deBruin -two fencers that DeCicco believes ought to be outright qualifiers for the championships. 
Nevertheless, DeCicco is quite optimistic citing the consistent success of the men's foil squad and the exceptional fencing by the epee team as of late. The NCAAs will be the final test for the Irish teams and individuals. 
FOUR GREAT BANDSI 
ONE lOW PRICEI 
All AGES SHOWI 



TOSRECORDS 
For More Info: Call 
POOR BOY RECORDS

HEART CITY 
RIVERBEND
~ 

ENTERTAINMENT
~

CIVITA 
277-1727
& JAM MAGAZINE 

SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
Today 
page 19 



BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
iO~ K~OW, T~E~E MUST BE ISN.T 11\r>..T WEll<\)? I 'f.l.()\'lDER IF OUR NI\KED 11\0~SI\NDS OF A~\M.J\L SPECIES, W\-1'1 OTI-\t.R. />..1:-11\1111\LS \)()\'lT P\N.K 'aiJ\1'5 51-\0W.E\), At-ID ot All. Of' 11\E.\J\, ONL'i WEf\R CLOTI1t:S. 'tJE. PRIJ8~BL'{ WG\Jl\). 1-\UMI\~ S v-.IEI\R CLOI\It.S. 
"It's time we face reality, my friends.... We're not exactly rocket scientists." 
CROSSWORD 
CrOSS'W'Ofd 
Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 
ACROSS 31 Like Gothic 63 Springe part novels &4 Gallimaufry
1 Nigeria's former 33 An address for a &5 Mesa's cousin capital G.l. 66 River in Chile 
6 Author Stoker 67 Mere handful 
10 Dross of metal 68 Exhale or exude 
14As­(usually) 69 Purvey 
15 Republic west of Wales DOWN
16 Raced 17 Column style 
1 Secular 2 Buck's tail? 
18 Come about 3 Ben of 
20 Anagram for "TreasureVOICES RANT Island"ON 4 Theater 22 City near floodlightArnhem 5 Emulates S.C. 
23 Optician's 
in 1860
product 6 Honey bunch 24 Mushroom part 7 Yale, to Harvard 27 Mesta role 
8 Alpine crest 9 Sidney Kingsley's "­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
White" 10 Flabbergast =+'""'-+=+-'-! 11 Mauna ­29 Mediterranean 44 Huge; colossal 56 Mild oath 
12 Bonsai, for one wind 48Jai alai 57 Castle
~~~ 13 Command to 
30 San Antonio protection
51 Like Scott's 
111!nltlll oxen eager Ulrica sa Ariosto's patron 
19 "... -the 
32Asnerand

.:...:..f-'::..r::;......., ~~~ Wizard" 52 Last sight for 59 Bring up 
Sullivan 

Lot's wife 60 Smash hit 
~+-±-fl!ll....-;~~ 21 Curriculum 
35 ld follower 

vitae 53 Resin used as 61 Ransom-­
36 Pawnees' 

incense Oids
~'-+-'-1-=1-'-'-1 24 Journey on the 
cousins

QE2 55 Surmounting 62 Sonny's sibling 
37 Bound for Sing 25 Anagram for SingMARINE 39 Personals in 

Get answers to any three clues
-:':+.~+=-! 26 Was a voyeur some mags 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·

.::+::~+=-! 27 Smoking, etc. 43 Swings off ..:.......;~....__. 28 First game course 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0203 


TONIGHT Celebrate at the official club of the IRISH 
9~2 
Must Be 21 
....,
THE 
mr 
zc
nm>
-s::
Oz
:D­
r-
c 
"' 

Sports 
Wednesday, March 17, 1993 

Irish lacro~sse shines over break 
Colley breaks record in record-breaking storm 
page 20 


BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)-If anyone knows how Alan Henderson feels this week, it's Seott May. 
Alan Henderson, No. 1 Indi­ana's leading rebounder, is struggling to come back from a knee injury in time to help the Hoosiers win the national championship. That's the same frustration May felt 18 seasons ago. 
"Alan is going through a lot of the same problems I did," May said, recalling the broken arm that all but ended his season in 1975. "You know the team is better with you than without you. But you really can't do anything about it when you've got an injury." 
"... The withdrawal symptoms are tough." May was an All-American and 
FENCING Men's and Women's teams shine at Midwest Regional Championships 
see page 18 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team went out east, to the llind of lacrosse powers, and made the bold statement that they are not to be taken lightly by eastern schools just because they are from the midwest. 
The Irish broke out of their traditional pattern of playing poorly on spring breaks, and went 3-0, defeating two ranked teams along the way. 
Notre Dame's first, and clos­est, game was against No. 21 Hofstra in Hempstead, N.Y., last Saturday. After falling behind 2-1 after one quarter, the Irish battled back to even the score at four at halftime. 
Led by junior attacker Randy Colley's three goals in the 3rd quarter, the Irish jumped out to a 9-6 lead. Notre Dame held 0.11 for the 9-8 victory behind strong defense and the play of senior goalie Chris Parent. 
Other outstanding perfor­mances were turned in by the starting attack and midfield lines, highlighted by junior Robbie Snyder's three assists and two goals apiece from mid­dies Billy Ahmuty and Rob To­bin. 
The Irish then traveled to Emittsburg, Maryland to play Mount St. Mary's on Tuesday. Behind a record tying six goals by Snyder, the Irish jumped out to an early 7-1 lead and coasted to a 15-11 win. 
Defensively, Notre Dame turned to Parent in goal and the defensive line of sophomores Mike Iorio and Billy Galagher and junior Garrett Reilly to stop Mt. St. Mary's until they scored garbage goals in the 4th quarter when the game had been decided. 
The snowstorm that paralyzed the east coast this past weekend was the setting for a record breaking performance when the Irish faced ofT against No. 25 University of New I Jampshire in Boston. 
Playing in a blizzard that made for extremely trying play­ing conditions, Handy Colley rewrote the record books with seven goals and two assists. His seven goals broke the old record of six that had been tied by Robbie Snyder against Mt. St. Mary's, and his nine total points in one game tied the sehool record. 

The Irish once again jumped out to a 9-4 lead at halftime. then romped to a 17-7 win over the Wildcats. The supporting cast of Snyder and Tobin chipped in with three goals apiece as the Irish dominated from start to finish. 
The team was strandt~d in Boston because of the snow and was not able to make it back to school until Tuesday morning. As a result, the scheduled game against the University of Denver for Monday was cancelled. 
Irish softball encouraged after spring break trip 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA outfielder, adds speed to the 
Sports Writer lineup as well as anchoring 
the defense with fellow senior 

record 
of' the best changeups in the playing nation." regional powers San Jose "This is the best team we've State, Central Michigan, North had since I've been here and 
The Notre Dame softball Usa Miller. team began its fifth season "Before this year, teams with spring break trips to the wanted to play us because we University of California at were Notre Dame," said Al­Sacramento and Tampa, varez. "Now, teams want to Florida for two play Notre Dame softball." national Alford, a three-year starter tournaments . as a pitcher, provides the 
The luxury of starting or relieving concluded the from the mound. ten day "Staci is an intense competi­with an tor, "said Miller. "She has one 
Carolina and Connecticut. we'll have a better record than 
"It helped tremendously to last year even though we play get outside," said Irish first a tough schedule," said Alford. year head coach Liz Miller. "It On their spring trip, the Irish's was a big step because it was leading hitters were Stephanie our first trip to the West Pinter, Christy Connoyer, Liz Big Ten most valuable player as first round. 
Coast." Goetz and Sara Hayes. a junior in 1974-75. He broke Although many tournament 
"We gained confidence by Through the 14 games, the his arm late in the regular sea­forecasters figure Indiana's title 
playing strong out west," Irish averaged only 1.1 errors son. He missed two NCAA hopes are slim without Hen­
added Miller. per game. tournament games and was derson, May isn't so sure. 
The Irish are ranked sixth in "Our defense was solid." ineffective in three minutes "Four of the five guys on the 
the Midwest region of the na· realized Miller. "But, we have during the regional final, a 92-floor at any time can handle the 
tion. The region includes 40 to be more aggressive teams and contains Big Ten, swinging the bats. We got hits 90 Joss to Kentucky. ball, and that's really tough," MACC, and MCC schools. when we were aggressive,"Henderson suffered ligament May said of the versatile "We're no longer the under­she added. 
damage to his right knee last Hoosiers, who play Wright St. 
dog program," said Miller. In California, the team fin­month. He earned third-team (20-9) Friday in a Midwest Re­"People aren't going to over­ished with a 3-4 record. The All-Big Ten honors Monday, but gional first-round game in In­look us any longer. Irish beat San Jose State once has played just six seconds of dianapolis. 
''If we work hard, teams and defeated St. Mary's (CA) one game the injury. Indiana Big Ten coaches who have lost 
won't be able to sneak up on twice. Also, Sacramento State (28-3) is 5-1 without him, losing to Indiana without Henderson 
us," continued Miller. edged the Irish 1·0 in a well only to a small, quick, have mixed opinions. 
Miller inherits a team loaded played gan1e. . perimeter team in Ohio State. "When you go against teams 
with young talent and sup­At the South Florida Tourna­Indiana coach Bob Knight that pound it inside, you've got 
ported by six seniors. "The se­ment, besides beating North isn't sure whether the 6-foot-9 to have numbers, you've got to 
niors provide great leadership Carolina and UConn, the Irish as we try to build a strong fell to Temple in a disappoint­Henderson will be able to con­have fouls to give," said Min­unit," said Miller. ing loss. 
tribute in the tournament. He nesota's Clem Haskins. "That's Seniors Ronny Alvarez and "We had no intensity," ex­
won't know until Thursday the problem they'll run into 
Staci Alford will co-captain the plained Miller. "We should notwhether Henderson, a sopho­once they get into postseason Irish this season. Alvarez, an 
see IRISH/ page 16 
more, will be able to play in the 

see INDIANA/ page 15 


INSIDE SPORTS 

NCAA TOURNAMENT 
TENNIS 

Tournament bracket team beat No. 19 Kansas The Notre Dame women's 
and roundup. and lost to unranked South Florida during Spring Break. 
see pages 14 and 15 see page 18 






