

Tuesday, September 14, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 12 THE INDEPENDENT NFWSPAPFR SERVING NOTRE DAMF AND \A!NT MARY'S 
Women's Committee 
•

gtven space 
By ANALISE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
The Women's Resource Committee, a subdivision of Graduate Student Union, was granted the temporary use of the former student government conference center on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune Center 
STUDENT SENATE 
by the Student Senate at yes­terday's meeting. The proposal passed by a majority of thirteen votes. 
Because space on campus for extracurricular activities and clubs is limited, the office will be used until the center finds more space. 
"They're going to set up what they can in the former student government conference cen­ter," said Lynn Friedewald, chief-of-staff of student gov­ernment. 
Discussion focused on whether the Center's name would exclude men and if the Center would divide men and women on campus. 
"I think this would give the students an outlet," said Notre Dame club coordinator Frank McGehee. 
see SENATE/ page 4 


ND/SMC community offers relief to flood victims 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

In an effort to aid flood vic­tims of the Midwest, a three mile fun walk will take place at 5 p.m Tuesday evening on the Saint Mary's campus. 
The Walk for Flood Victims, ( sponsored by Campus Ministry, , Student Activities, and Athletics 
see Students I page 3 

department, will begin and end at the Clubhouse at Saint Mary's. 
Participants are being asked for a $3 donation that will go toward the purchase of "Gift of the Heart" recovery kits which will aid in the clean-up, repair and recovery in the flood-dam­aged areas. 
"I am really glad that we are doing this," said senior Jennifer Moore, the Spiritual Life Coordinator on the Board of Governance. "It provides an affordable way to help flood victims." 
The college exceeded its ini­tial monetary goal of $1,500 at the Orientation Mass before it began publicizing the project to the student body. After such a promising start, the goal was raised to $2,500. 
As of yesterday afternoon, $2,400 was received through student registration and vari­ous donations from faculty and alumnae. 
"The support across the cam­pus has just been great," said Judith Fean, acting assistant director of Campus Ministry. 
MIDWEST FLOOD RELIEF 
$2,400­

$1,500­8/29 

"We are modeling in many dif­ferent ways the true spirit of a Catholic college." 
The kits,.which consist of cleaning supplies, bedding materials, health aids, kitchen utensils and food staples, will be delivered to World Church Services of Moline, Ill. on the weeketid of Sept. 25. 
Volunteers will be needed at the Clubhouse on Sept. 23 from noon to 8 p.m. to help assemble the contents of the kits. 
"As the amount of money raised increases, so does the need for volunteers," Fean said. 
Volunteers from the South Bend area have also con­tributed in the effort to aid the flood victims. 
Van Dyn Crotty Inc., a local uniform company, has donated a truck and driver to deliver the kits to the World Church Services Organization. 
The Scottsdale Mall Target Store has agreed to match the supplies purchased by Saint Mary's to be included in the kits. 
Both the Red Cross and the Diocese of Fort Wayne -South Bend are accepting monetary donations in order to assist vic­tims of the floods. Through the World Church Services, the College is able to aid physically in the rebuilding stages, ac­cording to Fean. 
The World Church Service Organization, an ecumenical group, has linked Campus Ministry with a Methodist church in Moline, Ill that is monitoring volunteers in the area. 
see FLOOD/ page 4 

Budding Architects! 
Professor Duncan Stroik is surounded by his Design I Architecture class and their reconstruction of an Andrea Palladio arch. This is the first time this arch has been built since 1570. 

Students face burglaries, 
. .


cttattofis 
By SARAH DORAN 
Assistant News Editor 

A sixth townhouse at the Lafayette Square complex was burgularized last night between 8 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. The townhouse's alarm system 
see Theft I page 3 

was activated at the time and went off during the theft, according to wittnesses at the scene at the time of police arrival. 
Residents reported the theft of a computer to police. 
The assailants apparantly entered the locked apartment through a basement window. 
Security guards were on duty at the complex from 8 p.m. until 5 a.m. Majestic Security Protection Services, Inc., the company handling security, is in the process of working out a plan with the complex to begin 24 hour surveillance, according representative Brad Stool. 
In a related security story, the Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) task force cited 16 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students for underage drinking during a raid at 203 
E. Navarre Street in South Bend at 12:45 a.m. Sunday morning. 
At the same time, the South Bend police cited Notre Dame junior Brian Baumer, a res­ident of the house, for violating the city of South Bend loud and raucous noise ordinance. 
The raid was carried out after officers saw several peo­ple at the residence who appeared to be under 21 years old. Plainclothes officers made the observation after being permitted to enter the house, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
Students cited for underage drinking were: Alumni Hall sophomore Michael Hynes. Dillon Hall junior Neil Knowlton. Grace Hall sophomore Michael Hughes. Holy Cross Hall sophomore Kathleen McFadden. 
LeMans Hall sophomores 
Molly Foley, Sarah Haiman, 
Maria Myers, and Mary Zervos. 
Pangborn Hall sophomores 
Jill Albanese, Emily Hansen, 
and Maria Schott. 

Morrissey Hall sophomores 
Peter Geraghty and Kevin 
Janicki. 

Sorin Hall sophomore Mark 
Gesell. 

Off-campus junior Michael 
McEvilly and senior Matthew 
Carbone. 

A fifth Lafayette Square bur­
glary took place early in the 
morning of Sunday, September 
12. 

The suspect apparently en­
tered through an unlocked win­
dow and stole a VCR and a 
portable stereo, he said. The 
apartment's alarm system was 
not activated during the time of 
the burglary. he said. 

The suspect fits the same de­
see SECURITY I page 4 

page2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, September 14, 1993 

INSIDE COLUMN 




Inside the Inside Column 
For the first time ever, I'm going to give you, the reader. a whirlwind course in the art of the inside column. 
This is the way it usually happens. Those of us that sign up to do an inside..-------1 
of us at the Observer have nothing to say. No, this an opinionated lot that resides up here on the third flour of LaFortune. It's just that when you finally sit down to write this thing your profound opinion seems to have dwindled to an inconsequential anecdote. After you've typed the first line, even the anecdote has evaporated and you are left with this nag­ging desparation in your stomach as you try to draw something, anything at all, from the ether. 
At this stage in the game, everyone else in the office has noticed your plight and are assailing you with a barrage of "What-are-you-writing­abouts." Or better yet, they offer their sugges­tions for really cool topics and then run away laughing when you otTer to let them write the column. 
When the desperation for a topic has reached its zenith, you generally resort to priming the pump. You just start writing and hope against hope that what you're writng eventually leads somewhere. In fact, everything up to this point in today's column has been just that: pump­priming prose. Unfortunately, this technique that has served me so well in the past has failed to ingnite the fires of imagination. 
This lack of inspiration, however, is not unusual. This is the point in most columns that the writer tries to wrest humor from the absurd, drawing bizarre analogies in an attempt to wow the reader with a universal truth. This, of course, is rarely successful. 
I have no nifty analogies to offer. Sorry. 
One of the convenient options available on the computer I'm typing this column on is "Word count." As the name suggests, you may access this feature to tell you how many of the 75 req­uisite lines you have typed so far. About hal way through the column you begin check your line count with increasing frequency. It is not unlike being on a miserably long car trip with someone that is constantly asking "Are we there yet?" except it's worse because you're doing it to yourself. You are asymptotically approaching zero lines to type. 
Finally, you reach the homestretch. As you look back on the trash you've left trailing thoughout the lion's share of your Inside Column you come to the sickening revelation that everything that you've written is going to be printed on the second page of The Observer with your picture plastered next to the title. The only thought that otTers you any consolation is that no one ever reads this column anyway. 
So you wrap things up and swear for the zil­lionth time that you will never write one o these things again. You even wonder why we have this stupid column in the first place. The answer, of course, is that once in a blue moon someone on staff here actually has something important to say, something worth listening to. That is the time that the Inside column pays for itself. 
The views expressed about the Inside Column in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Emily Hagc: MarkZito Nancy Dunn Lynn Bauwens Sports Kathie Young Jonathan Jensen Accent Viewpoint Kenya Johnson Rolando de Aguiar Graphics Lab Tech Chris Weirup John Bingham Business Pancho Lozano Rian Akey 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxa:pr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Haiti assassination 
Exiled Aristide Demands Resignations 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
Exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide demanded on Monday that the police chief and army leaders quit following the assassination of a leading Aristide supporter. 
Aristide urged the international community to "help us rid ourselves without delay of the leadership of this state-sponsored terrorism." 
His speech, broadcast to Haiti, followed U.N. envoy Dante Caputo's characteri­zation of squads of plainclothes police as "killers." 
Clerics and human rights advocates accuse the special police agents of catry­

ing out the killing Saturday of pro-Aristide businessman Antoine lzmery and
column usually do so well in 
making a wave of death threats during the U.N.-backed transition to democra­
advance and invariably have 
cy.
put little concrete thought 
The hundreds of plainclothes special agents and 1,000 municipal police offi­
into it until a few minutes 
before it is due. In fact, if it 
cers in the capital are commanded by Joseph Michel Francois, an army colonel 
who was a leader of the 1991 coup that forced Aristide into exile. 
wasn't for the persistent 
"Those in command of military institutions and the chief of police have quite
pestering of the affable 
Rolando de Aguiar, very few 
simply given themselves other tasks to accomplish: the massacre of the popula­
tion for the benefit of sordid interests," said Aristide.
of these columns would 
The wave of violence has threatened the U.N. peace plan, under which
probably be written at all. 
Aristide is scheduled to return Oct. 30. Under the accord, Francois and army
This isn't because those commander Raoul Cedras, who signed the agreement with Aristide, must quit. Aristide, however, asked for their immediate resignations. 
Later Monday, Aristide asked Parliament to consider a law shifting the police from military to civilian control, which is also part of the U.N. plan. The separa­tion is stated in the 1987 Haitian Constitution, but it has never been enacted. 
A new democratic government led by Aristide's premier, Robert Malval, has been helpless in the face of rising terror by its armed opponents. 
Malval's government, in a communique Sunday, said legal steps had been taken against the attackers and the army had been ordered to "dismantle these armed bands." 
But Antoine Joseph, president of Haiti's lower house of parliament, said that "Mal val's authority is null." 
AP/Carl Fox 

Judge grants opening ofChicago schools Ethnic dolls gain in popularity 
CHICAGO PHILADELPHIA 
A judge suspended provisions of a state law prohibit­The profitability of collecting black dolls is questionable, ing public schools from opening without a balanced bud­but there's no doubt about its burgeoning popularity. get, allowing classes in the nation's third-largest school More than 300 dolls in Barbara Whiteman's system to start Wednesday, a week late. Philadelphia Doll Museum compete for space on the 
"If on this day Israel and the PLO can take a major shelves, tables, chairs and in the nooks and crannies of step toward peace in the Mideast, we ought to be able to her row house. divine a solution to the school crisis," U.S. District Judge They are tagged and cataloged, but Whiteman isn't con­Charles Kocoras said Monday. cerned about their worth. 
"I buy the doll that appeals to me. Whatever appeals to 
Classes had been scheduled to begin for the city's you, you should buy," she said. 411,000 public school students on Sept. 8. They were Myla Perkins, a Detroit collector with more than 2,500 postponed because of the district's financial woes and an black dolls and the author of "Black Dolls," an identifica­impasse in contract talks between the school board and tion and value guide, agrees. teachers. "Dolls do increase in value and it's a lucky person when 
Lawrence Poltrock, an attorney for the Chicago they do, but I wouldn't bet on it," said Perkins. "If you Teachers Union, said teachers would return to school collect, collect with the interest that you really love Tuesday to prepare for the arrival of students them." Wednesday. 
Classes could be short-lived, however. The union For the past five years, Whiteman and partner, scheduled a vote for Wednesday on whether teachers Bernadine Hawes, have organized the Black Doll should strike next Monday. Convention in Philadelphia. More than 1,500 people from 
The Chicago school system -facing a deficit of $298 California to Rhode Island attended the event in May. million -is the only one in the state barred by Illinois "Now a lot of black women are collecting and making law from opening without a balanced budget. their own dolls to produce for black doll conventions," 
To resolve the crisis, the school board asked Kocoras Whiteman said. Before the convention "there had not for permission to balance the budget using $55 million in been a central place for the collectors. We want to expand teacher pension funds, $18.3 million in state aid for the program and work with schools." schools with children eligible for free or reduced lunch Whiteman wants to establish the first museum dedicat­programs, and $117 million in bond proceeds. ed solely to the preservation of black dolls because she 
believes they give clues about black history and can be 
The board wants to make up the rest of the shortfall used as teaching tools. with concessions from the teachers union, such as con­"If a child looks in a book and they see a picture of a tributions to their health care costs and spending cuts. slave, then right away they feel sort of like embarrassed 
Kocoras scheduled a Sept. 23 hearing on the financing because of the clothing or how they looked," she said. issue, and imposed a 10-day temporary restraining order But using dolls, "I explain the history and the period in suspending the balanced budget provision. which the doll was made and how to relate it to black 
The union objects to diverting the pension money and people and then I may mention that your mother or to the health care contributions, and those issues have grandmother may have done similar work." been sticking points in negotiating a new contract. 
NATIONAL Weather INDIANA Weather 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 14.
Tuesday, Sept. 14 Accu·Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 70s 

FRONTS: 
..............-..........._ ..,.-....... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu·Weathor. Inc. Pressum 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
H  L  Chicago  77  68  New York  64  65  
Anchorage Athens Atlanta Boston Cairo  58 97 87 84 90  38 70 69 60 79  Dallas Jerusalem London Los Angeles Minneapolis Moscow  90 84 70 77 68 58  75 66 63 85 57 36  Paris Philadelphia Rome Seattle Washington D.C.  63 85 81 75 99  55 64 61 47 82  

Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Student negligence leads Students experience flood's effects 
to campus thefts 
ByNICKRIOS 
News Writer 
An alarming number of lar­cenies and bike thefts have occurred on campus since the beginning of the school year, according to Phil Johnson, as­sistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
Five bikes were reported stolen over the past weekend, making the total 20 since the beginning of the school year, he said. 
"The thefts have been occur­ring all around campus, most of them at night," Johnson re­ported. "And more than half of the bikes that have been stolen were left unlocked." 
"Three bikes were left un­locked outside of student resi­dence halls and four were stolen from inside the dorms, but unlocked as well," he said. 
Students leaving rooms un­locked and book bags unat­tended has led to a large num­ber of robberies over the past two weeks, as well, according to Johnson. 
"Over the weekend we re­ceived reports of three differ­ent larcenies of cash and per­sonals from dorm rooms," he said. Two of the reported rob­beries occurred in Sorin Hall and the third was in Grace Hall. 
Campus Security strongly recommends that the Notre Dame community lock their doors and find strong locks for their bikes, securing them to things that are not removable, he said. 
"These larcenies are not hap­pening as a result of someone breaking in, but because the students are not locking their doors and their personal belongings," he added. "Unfortunately the students are going to have to start locking their rooms even if they go away for a few minutes." 
Johnson added, "We are also asking the Notre Dame com­munity to look after each other. If someone sees something happening, please call 911 and report it. One caller can make a difference." 

St. Edward's Hall Players 
present 
Neil Simon's 

"Brighton Beach Memoirs" 
Open Auditions will be 
held on 
Wednesday and Thursday 
from 7-9 prn 
in the St. Ed's Chapel 

~l)lll]l ~ f!ll]l~ ~l)lll]l 
J..on..J Basketball  
Tournament  
What: Date: Time:  Double elimination 3-on-3 Basketball Tournament with 3 divisions Sunday, September 19, 1993 Registration 11 am to 12 pm. Play starts at 1 pm.  

Location: Stepan Center outdoor courts, Notre Dame Entry Fee On Site: $25 per team 
Hot Shot: $1 per entry 3-point Shootout $1 per entry Free Throw 
Competition . ,. $1 per entry Registration: T earn to Pick up rules, court assignments, time brackets -Play to start at 1 pm. 
Division: A-Cheryl Miller Division-Two or more players with competitive experience (i.e. high school or college)­Current high school players must reside within a 50 mile radius of South Bend 
B--Muffet McGraw Recreational Division-For fun, love of the game, competition in spirit 
C-Youth-Girls 14 and under-Some basketball experience included but not limited to park district, YWCA/YMCA, grade school, middle school 
Roster: Minimum of three, maximum of four, players For registration forms or questions please contact Sandy Botham, 631,5420 
By ELIZABETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

As the temperature and humity continued to rise in most parts of the country earli­er this summer, the rain fell relentlessly in the midwest. 
Despite pre-flood efforts to construct flood walls and levies millions of people were washed out by the waters, including many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"My street got flooded twice this summer," said Saint Mary's freshman Cathy Kelly from St. Louis County. "The water was way past the doors and I don't even live near a river." 
Students from St. Louis, Missouri, West Des Moines and Bettendorf, Iowa, and Overland Park, Kansas felt the impact of the floods as they tried to carry on in their daily summer activi­ties. 
Many felt the fmancial impact and the inconveniences that one normally would not consid­er. 
"West Des Moines was com­pletely conjested because we were the only place around with good water," said Notre Dame sophomore Matt Badura. 
"The smell of raw sewage, the bugs, and the traffic were the worst," said Saint Mary's freshman Caroline Blum of St. Louis County. "You almost needed nose plugs near the riverfront." 
"My summer school classes at Des Moines Area Community College were cancelled for a week," said junior Andy Kindred from Grace Hall. 
Many of the students joined their communities in efforts to aid those less fortunate by offering their homes for show­ers and shelter, sandbagging local water treatment plants and volunteering their time in local high schools and grocery stores where many victims saught temporary shelter. 
"People started sandbagging in order to help out, but then it became a great place to meet people," said Blum. 
"We had so much help," said Saint Mary's freshman Susan Smith of St. Louis County. "That was what was so neat." 
Saint Mary's sophomore Jennifer Kelley said that her finished basement was knee deep in water at the peak of the disaster. 
"The ground was so saturat­ed with water that there was nowhere else for it to go," Kelley said. 
"Boxes of memorabelia that can never be replaced were ruined," she added. "I thought 
it was so bad, but in compari­
son, my family was lucky." 
Many of the students were 
impressed with the amount of 
media coverage during the dis­
aster. 
Elizabeth Martin was able to 
work at an ABC affiliate station 
this summer in Bettendorf. 
"It was a really exciting sum­
mer," Martin said. "We worked 
24 hours a day trying to cover 
the flood with ten minute flood 
specials at the end of every 
newscast." 
"All of the press coverage impressed me," said Saint Mary's sophomore Moja Brennan from West Des Moines. "No one had even heard of Des Moines last year ,JVhen I came to school as a freshman. That is all anyone is 
talking about now." 
Because of the utter devasta­
tion, Brennan was suprised by 
such a quick response. 
"At the time it seemed like 
such a big deal," Brennan said. 
"But with the help of everyone, 
things are already back on 
their feet so fast." 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the position of 
Design Editor 
···························································­
•
•
• 


St£9{!02{5! 
Cfass Croise on Lakg Michigan 
• 

%ursda!J, September 16th 
• 
•

~ic~ts: $25.00 •
• •

(inc[udes food and beverages) • • •
•
•
• 

~ic~ts go on safe this Monda!J at tfze La!Fortune 
•
• information des~
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• • 
• •• • tJJon't Miss Out! • •• 
•...................~ ......................................~ 

page 4 
Security 
continued from page 1 
scription as the alleged burglar of the previous four apart­ments, according to Matteo. The South Bend police have a warrant out on his arrest, said Matteo, but have not been able to locate him. 
"It is frustrating because we know who the person is that is doing this, but it is in the hands of the police now," said Matteo. 
In response to the recent rash of burglaries, Lafayette Square is upgrading its security systems and adding security personnel, said Matteo. 
• Also, a Notre Dame student has reported being approached by an impersonator of a Safewalk employee, said Philip Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame security. 
The student reported the in­cident to Safewalk employees last week, said Johnson. 
Students are urged to be aware of the blue reflective jackets, radios, and photo iden­tification cards that each Safewalk employee wears, said Johnson. 

Flood 
continued from page 1 
"Depending upon the number 

of interested students, we 
would like to send a group into 
the area over fall break to help 
distribute more kits," Fean 
said. 
"A lot of students are behind 

this," said senior Melissa 
Whelan. " I think that the en­
thusiasm is so high because so 
many students at Saint Mary's 
are from the Midwest." 
Campus Ministry will be ac­cepting registration prior to the walk at 4 p.m. in front of the Clubhouse for all those in­terested. 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
pie have expressed an interest in the program," said Lafreniere. 
"The most exciting thing is that it is a joint alumni and student project," Brennan said. 
The program will be run ei­ther through the Salvation Army or the Archdiocese of St. Louis, said Brennan. An in­formational meeting will be held Wednesday, September 15 at 9 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
In addition to this hands-on 

work, other campus organiza­
tions have been collecting 
clothing for victims of the 
flood. The Office of Student 
Activities is currently collecting 
t-shirts for school children in 
the flooded area of Cedar City, 
Missouri, said Joe Cassidy the 
director of student activities. 
"I received a lettEJr from an 

alumnus who is a pastor at a 
church in Indiana. He said 
there was a need for clean 
clothes for kids to go back to 
school," said Cassidy. 
Jonathan Gosser, Pastor of 

United Methodist Church in 
Galveston, Indiana is the alum­
nus who contacted Cassidy 
about his sister church in 
Missouri, said Executive 
Secretary to the Director of 
Student Activities Nancy Jacox. 
Cavanaugh Hall, Breen­

Phillips Hall and Pangborn Hall 
and the Dome have responded 
to Cassidy's request for contri­
butions, said Jacox. 
i 
I 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
Supporters for the center are working to resolve the issue of making both genders comfort­able, said members of the Women's Resource Committee. 
·;·women's issues just aren't women's issues, but gender is­sues," said Jennifer Halbach, District 2 senator from Walsh Hall. 
Volunteers for the center have been working since last April but have received no re­sponse from the Office of Student Affairs, Friedewald said. 
"There were several attempts in the past months by the Women's Resource Committee to set up meetings with Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara to discuss the proposal. but none were suc­cessful," said a Women's Resource Committee news re­lease. 
The Faculty Senate has en­dorsed the Women's Resource Center along with the Faculty/Student Committee on 
The Observer • NEWS 
The Observer/ John Bingham At the Student Senate meeting, Breen-Phillips senior Lynn Friedwald and Badin junior Katie Glynn discuss the proposal of the Women's Resource Committee 
Women, Friedewald said. we educate ourselves about 
The Graduate Student Union gender relations?" said has said it will allocate funds Meredith Dwyer, women's con­for the project. cerns representative for 
Pasquerilla East Hall. "If we can educate ourselves about race relations, why can't Members of the committee 
plan to maintain a library in­cluding information on rape, gender issues, and eating dis­orders. The center also plans to present forums, invite guest speakers to campus, and offer a referral service. 

•' 

With Visa® you'll be accepted at more than 

..-..-....-..._.,._ 

:r-'"" ;,.,...,.,~~n·.,, 
10 million places, nearly three times more than American Express. And that's not a misprint. 
Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ 
L-----------------------------------------~VosaU.SAinc.1993 
Tuesday, September 14, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 


IN foRMATiONAl MEETi,NG. 
WEdNESdAy, SEpTEMbER 1~ AT 9:00PM esc AvdiToRiiJM 
ApplicATioNs wiLL bE AvAilAbLE AT TltE MEETiNG ANd Also iN TltE 
. 

STudENT GovERNMENT OFficE, 2Nd FLooR LAFORTUNE 
.... 
-
page 6 The Observer • MIDEAST NEWS Tesday, September 14, 1993 
Israelis, PLO sign peace pact at White House 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a breathtaking moment of hope and history, Vasser Arafat and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin exchanged a handshake of peace before a cheering White House audience Monday after the signing of a PLO­Israeli treaty that once seemed unimaginable. 
"Enough of blood and tears. Enough," the gravelly voiced Rabin said with emotion. "We wish to open a new chapter in the sad book of our lives to­gether, a chapter of mutual recognition, of good neighbor­liness. of mutual respect, of understanding.'' 
Arafat, wearing his trade­mark kaffiyeh draped in the shape of a map of Palestine, said the agreement should mark "the end of a chapter of pain and suffering which has lasted throughout this cen­tury." 
The two men, mortal enemies for a generation. watched from several feet apart as aides signed historic agreements that will bring Palestinian rule to the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Then, drawn toward Rabin by President Clinton, a grinning Arafat extended his hand. 
After a second's hesitation, the prime minister reached out for a businesslike handshake, Rabin, who as an Israeli gen­eral captured the West Bank and Gaza, was stony faced. 
Cheers of delight roared from the crowd of 3,000 people assembled on the sun-soaked South Lawn. 
The audience included former Presidents Carter and Bush, both instrumental in moving peace talks ahead. There were eight former secretaries of state, the Cabinet, the Supreme Court and most members of Congress as well as diplomats and Arab and Jewish leaders in the United States. 
Jihan Sadat, the widow of Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, assassinated for making peace with Israel, also was pre­sent. 
Like the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union, a peace agreement be­tween Israel and the PLO is another dizzying event that had seemed impossible. 
Yet, after months of secret negotiations, the PLO last week recognized the right of Israel to live in peace and renounced vi­olence; Israel in turn recog­nized the PLO as the represen­tative of Palestinians. 
The fast-moving chain of events is expected to continue Tuesday with announcement by Jordan and Israel at the State Department on a negotiating agenda that could lead to a peace treaty and diplomatic re­lations. 
The success of the Israeli-PLO agreement depends on the international community pro­viding billions of dollars to de­velop the economy of the West Bank and Gaza. Clinton made clear he expects other nations to provide the lion's share. 
The president pledged that the United States would try to nurture Monday's agreement into a broader peace through­out the Middle East. 
"We know a difficult road lies ahead," Clinton said. "Every peace has its enemies, those who still prefer the easy habits of hatred to the hard labors of reconciliation." 

Palestians delirious, 
The changing face of Israel 
1947: 1949-'67: 


Israelis wary or unhappy
.,.United Nations Partition Plan After Israeli War of Independence 


By KARIN lAUB 
Associated Press 
JtiUCHO, 
One minute, thousands strained to catch the moment on the small TV and transistor radio on a stage in Jericho's main square. The next, they beat drums, waved flags and danced arm-in-arm as the sun 
disappeared  behind  the  
foothills.  
The  throngs packing  the  

streets of this once quiet oasis Monday clapped, cheered and sang when Israel and the PLO signed their landmark peace agreement. 
"I feel so good inside," said Nasser Prince, a 28-year-old money changer. "I hope I and my children will be able to Jive in a real peace. 
"Now we can be friends with the Israelites." 
There were scattered demon­strations against the pact ­more violence, more casualties. Only a small fraction of the region's hundreds of thousands of refugees took part in anti­accord displays, however. Mostly, joy surged across the occupied lands. 
The celebrations were strik­ing not only as a display of sheer delirium by a people fighting for years for a home­land, but as a show of support for PLO chiefYasser Arafat. 
Israeli military patrols in Jericho had orders to stay away so Palestinians could savor the historic day. Some Palestinians gave the soldiers flowers. 
PLO activists, anxious to prove that peace has a chance, deployed its own security force to keep the festivities as orderly as possible. 
Hours before, a strike called by the Islamic fundamentalist foes of Arafat and the accord closed stores and kept cars from the streets in the West Bank. 
In Gaza City in the morning, fundamentalists lobbed stones at about 4,000 Palestinians waving flags and chanting sup­port for the deal. But the crowd marching through the streets doubled by nightfall. Similar large marches were held else­where in Gaza. 
Israeli soldiers shot and slightly wounded 16 anti-pact demonstrators in clashes in Gaza Monday night. 
At Shati refugee camp, Israeli troops wounded 10 Hamas ac­tivists hurling stones at them from the roof of a mosque, Arab reporters and hospital of­ficials said. In Ga~a City. six other Palestinians were shot after stoning patrolling soldiers. 
Palestinian refugees Jiving in neighboring Jordan and Syria tore up pictures of Arafat. burned Israeli flags, marched angrily through the streets and promised to wreck the FLO­Israeli peace. In a Beirut sub­urb in Lebanon, security forces fired on protesters, killing seven and wounding 41. 
In Iran, Tehran radio said "Arafat has sold 98 percent (of Palestinian lands) to the Zionist regime." 
The clashes may have been an indication of things to come between rival Palestinians, but Monday night was Arafat's night. Posters of the chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization and T -shirts bear­ing his image were everywhere. 





The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Purchasing Agent 
Please submit a one to two statement of qualifications to Brian Kennedy by 5:00 p.m., Wednesday. If there are any questions, call631-5313. 
As a result of the 1967 war, Israel took the Sinai from Egypt, the Gaza Strip from Egypt, the West Bank and East Jerusalem from Jordan, and the Golan Heights from Syria. 
The agreement faces formi­dable opposition among Israelis who fear their government has gone too far, and among Palestinians who accuse Arafat of accepting a sellout that falls short of a full Palestinian state. 
After the ceremony, the ad­ministration underscored its 

Presently Israel retains the Golan Heights, West Bank and the Gaza Strip. It has established a"security zone" in southern Lebanon to protect its northern frontier from terrorist attacks launched by Iranian-backed guerrillas in the region. 
Martin lndyk, a Middle East specialist on the National Security Council staff, said the United States was discussing new aircraft sales to Israel. Israel hasn't indicated what it wants, he said, but "there is no problem there." 
Train Your Brain 
.. J _}''
LSAT, MCAT, 


GMAT& GRE. 

. . \ . ~ 
Think your way to a higher score with"~.'\.~.~ Kaplan Total Training: "'-·~ 
•L-I .,,. 1 ,.~ '· 
., 1ve c asses .r· ,.,,'~~ i {':
h ,. T '. 
tThe Training library full of writte"{~nd _t~;d, _,~-\ practice materials and actual released tests~'!" ., . :'! tExtra help sessions to raise you \,\''~~:~:• .\ r..: to the score you want. ; ~ · ;\ . tl-on-1 tutoring. f ,;'' i ~:.1/
I qi 1; ~­
For more information 

KAPLAN 
The answer to tho test ctuntton
call 1-800-KAP-TEST 

a 
Tuesday, September 14, 1993 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
SM C plans for cable in television lounges 
By KATIE CAPUTO 
Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
The Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) has organized a proposal for cable access on campus and they hope to have the plan on the College's Senior Officers' agen­da today, according to Tricia Wallace, RHA president. 
The proposal asks the Senior Officers for cable access in all residence hall lounges and in the Haggar Game Room, Wallace said. 
The proposal also asks that the college pay for the initial installation of the cable, according to Patricia Warfield, advisor for RHA. The hall coun­cils and student government would then be responsible for the payments of the monthly bills. 

Warfield said that she would like to see students using the hall lounges more as gathering places in the residence halls. 
"It would be nice to see stu­dents treat the TV lounges like they would their living rooms at horne," Warfield said. 
The college does not have an underground cable access sys­tem, so it will be a very expen­sive process to install, accord­ing to Warfield. Because of these expenses, Warfield is not "overly optimistic" that the Senior Officers will approve of the proposal. she added. 
Saint Mary's students seem to support RHA's proposal. 
"I think it is a great idea be­cause a lot of students are com­plaining about the lack of vari­ety on their TVs," said McCandless Hall freshman Amy Laws. 
She believes many students would be willing to pay the extra money if cable were offered. 
A long-term goal for the pro­posal is to offer students a package in which they have the option to pay for cable in their own rooms, Warfield said. 
Wallace said that since it is in the long-term plans for the col­lege anyway. she hopes that they will install it now because of the current high demand. 
If the Senior Officers review the proposal at today's meeting, RHA could get feedback from them as early as Friday. Wallace said. 

RHA addresses Saint Mary's improvements 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
News Writer 
Initiating cable TV, sponsor­ing the construction of sand volleyball courts and highlight­ing feature speakers associated with Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) were the main topics discussed at last night's RHA organizational meeting. 
RESIDENCE HALL ASSOC. 
The recent proposal for cable television made to the Senior Officers regarding cable instal­lation in each residence hall is scheduled to be reviewed later today and a decision is expect­ed by Friday, said Warfield. 
Sand volleyball courts making a debut on campus in the near 
'f' R'i' S 
is back! NOTRE DAME 
[t¥2U!f.'li:U(/I 

General Information Meeting Thursday, September 6 7:00PM at the C.S.C. 
Questions? calll-9013 
future remains a possibility as well. The Senior Officers ap­proved the proposal made by RHA last year. The issue will be voted on by RHA members in a matter of weeks, according to Warfield. One court will cost approximately $4,000. 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) aids RHA fi­nancially and has given the or­ganization $15,000 to work with this year, said Warfield. A portion of this will be given to each residence hall at the aver­age of $4 per resident to pro­vide various individual dorm activities. 
In addition, RHA has do­nated $400 to the Saint Mary's Midwest Flood Relief. They have also sponsored the up­corning flood relief walk. 
Since its establishment in 1991, RHA has been successful in updating numerous policies. 
Changes last year included changing the male visitation policy at each dorm. This pol­icy required all male guests to leave identification at the front desk during visits. 
RHA was also responsible for the new dining hall hours, by proposing that it remain open from 7 a.rn to 7 p.m. 
}.c.~ SPONSORED BY 
~·-'\"· 

,.~~-~-7 =-=-= 
• 

Interested in representing Notre Dame at your high school during Fall or Christmas Break? Join the Undergraduate Schools Committee at one of 


the following organizational meetings: 
Tuesday, September 14 Wednesday, September 15 

All meetings begin at 7 pm, and are held in Hayes--Healy Auditorium (room 122) New members need to attend one session. Returning members need only to stop by one meeting to receive current information. Any questions? Call Jennifer Carrier at 631... 7505 or Luke Woods at 634...3333. 

DuLac revtstons made 
By JOHN LUCAS Assisrant News Editor 
The recent revisions in duLac will make the document easier to use and more helpful for stu­dents who will be referring to it, according to Bill Kirk, as­sistant vice-president for Student Affairs. 
"We wanted to make duLac a more friendly document," Kirk said. "We tried to make it easi­er to read and more user friendly." 
In cases throughout duLac, Kirk noted that several univer­sity policies had been "stream­lined" during the biennial revi­sion to make them easier to understand for students who had to comply with them. 
In addition, the academic code, which was positioned in the front of the last duLac has been moved to the back, so that Student Affairs policies would be as easy to fmd as they would be to understand. 
"In comparison to many other universities, we've cre­ated a clear and concise docu­ment that has a fair depiction of the expectations for behavior at the University of Notre Dame," Kirk said. 
Among the changes and addi­tions made during the 1993 re­vision of DuLac were sections detailing support services for victims of rape and sexual as­sault. In addition to including steps for the prevention of rape and assault, the new sections help to clarify the rights and options victims may exercise in the event of a rape, Kirk said. 
The additions to the policies involving rape support services in DuLac brought Notre Dame into compliance with changes in federal law requiring sec­tions that fully detailed proce­dures for victims and offend­ers. The beige insert in the DuLac book detailing drug and alcohol policies was also a mandatory addition to univer­sity policies. Kirk worked with the Campus Life Committee 
(CLC) in order to gain student input for both policies. 
In other areas, the university policy on abusive and harass­ing phone calls was clarified, Kirk said. Phone calls of an abusive nature are covered by the university's policy against harassment and are punishable by suspension or dismissal. 
Provisions in DuLac were amended to make it easier for hall officials to organize SYR's, according to Kirk. The time needed to gain administration approval for SYR's was cut from five days to three. 
Although students involved with the CLC had hoped to lower the rate of minimum participation in SYR's from 70 percent to 50 percent, Kirk said that the policy will remain unchanged. 


page 8 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
Bosnians 


Americans vvounded in Somali skirfllish 
lose Hague appeal 
By ABNER KATZMAN Associated Press 
THE HAGUE The World Court on Monday refused to help Bosnia get mili­tary backing from other nations, but ordered Serb-dom­inated Yugoslavia to comply with an earlier ruling against genocide. 
The U.N. court said its April 8 ruling must be immediately implemented because of "heinous acts" in Bosnia that have "shocked the conscience of the world." The 15-judge court has no enforcement powers and de­pends on voluntary compliance with its rulings. Bosnian Serb troops supported by Yugoslavia, who now control 70 percent of Bosnian territory, are blamed for the bulk of civil­ian atrocities and forced depor­tations as part of their self­declared "ethnic cleansing" policy. 
Bosnia had sought a ruling that 
would have undermined the 
U.N.-imposed weapons embar­go on former Yugoslavia. The Muslim-led government troops have been outgunned by Serbs armed from Yugoslav arsenals. Bosnia wanted the court to rule that the more than 100 nations that signed the Paris Convention Against Genocide must come to its aid. But the court said it had no authority to issue such an opinion. 


9rea/1 
Caf/291~ 2207 on how !lou can have afun !Jl(deover & ?or/rails/ 



H.A.O. Dinner 
Great Food being served at the CSC on Sept. 16 from 5, 7:30pm. 
By REID G. MILLER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia 
American soldiers came un­der what they described as Q.eavy sniper fire Monday and responded by calling in heli­copter gunships -returning far more than they got in an in­tense, two-hour firelight. 
Three Americans were wounded, none seriously. A spokesman for fugitive warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid said at least 25 Somalis were killed and many more wounded, in­cluding civilians. 
Maj. David Stockwell, the chief U.N. military spokesman, denied a claim by Aidid's sup­porters that 12 Americans were killed. "Absolutely not, without a doubt," he said. 

U.S. Quick Reaction Force came under fire after searching two walled compounds in southern Mogadishu and detaining 50 Somalis for questioning, said Stockwell and his assistant, Capt. Tim McDavitt. 
"We suspected them to be gathering places for Aidid's militia," McDavitt said of the compounds. 
A Blackhawk and a Cobra he­licopter covering the operation returned the sniper fire with 60mm machine guns and 20mm cannons and a second Cobra was called in to lend sup­port, Stockwell said. 
Turkish armored personnel carriers also provided covering fire as the battle raged for two hours, with the shooting "fairly heavy at times," McDavitt said. 
It was the second time in less than a week that the deadly Cobra gunships have been used to respond to attacks on U.N. troops. 
Stockwell declined to say whether it represente'ti a new policy. He emphasized that it was within the rules of en­gagement given U.N. troops in Somalia, who are authorized to shoot first and ask questions later if they consider their lives at risk. 
American and Pakistani troops were ambushed as they were clearing roadblocks in 
Mogadishu last Thursday, and Cobras laid down a withering blanket of fire to help them re­treat. 
Aidid's supporters said at least 125 Somalis were killed in that battle, including women and children. The United Nations acknowledged that women were known to be among the some 200 militia members attacked by the gun­ships. 
Aidid is wanted by the United Nations for a series of am­bushes on June 5 that killed 24 Pakistani peacekeepers. He also has been blamed for scores of other attacks that have killed a total of 48 U.N. troops, includ­ing four Americans, and wounded more than 175. 
About 200 soldiers from the 

To get one of these cards, students must be prepared to answer this multiple choice question. A. B. D D AT&T Calling Card. AT&T Universal MasterCard. Offers the convenience of a MasterCard00 credit Lets vou make calls to or from almost anywhere at AT&T's low rates.card that's free of annual fees for life. plus an AT&T Calling Card that currently gives you a 10% discount on already competitive AT&T Calling Card rates. C. D AT&T Custom Calling'" Card. Lets vou call the numbers that you and your parents preselect, and have the bill sent home. Which is the best calling card for students? There are three schools of thought-the AT&T Universal MasterCard, the AT&T Calling Card, and the AT&T Custom Calling'" Card. Each one offers personalized services to meet your needs. It's all part of The i Plan:• Which means that no matter which card you choose, you can't fail. ---To apply, come by our booth on campus or call 1800 654-0471, Ext. 4125. ATs.T  

r -----~---------­
~-~--------------­








BUSINESS 
Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
ANALYSIS 
Are we better off or worse? 

By JOHN CUNNIFF Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Economically speaking, you may be better off than you realize. 
Statements of that sort inevitably irritate Americans who, according to several polls, feel rather dismal about finan­cial conditions and dismayed by number counters who say things are getting better and better. 
It is a split not likely to be closed, nor even bridged, although it probably can be ex­plained. 
Meanwhile, gatherers and users of economic statistics say theirs is the real world, while those who trust popular im­pressions ask who should know better than the people them­selves. 
Here are some impressions, gathered from thousands of telephone calls to heads of households by Sindlinger & Co of Wallingford, Pa.: 
Most households say they have lower incomes than six months ago, expect lower in­comes six months from now, are less willing to spend of late, believe local job conditions are worsening and feel local busi­ness is weakening. 
Examining this and other surveys of consumer condi­tions, the impression is almost overwhelming that Americans today are not nearly as opti­mistic as they were a decade ago. 
Generalizing, they seem more financial stressed, more cau­tious, insecure and conser­vative to the degree that you can detect a wistfulness for the good old days. 
If households in general are 
financially stressed, as some 
surveys indicate, you cannot 
tell it by analyzing the num­
bers. as Linden has done. But 
neither can you ignore the pes­
simism that emanates from 
households. 
A more measurable explana­
tion for the indications of finan­
cial stress might be found in 
the Conference Board study 
supporting the forecasts of a 
sharp increase in the number 
of households with incomes ex­
ceeding $50,000. 
It determined that between 
now and the year 2000, 75 per­
cent of the increase in $50,000­
plus incomes will be accounted 
for by families in which both 
husband and wife are 
employed. 
According to the Department 
of Labor, such double-check 
families maintain their stan­
dard of living by spending 30 
percent more on average than 
single-check families. Their 
education bills are two-thirds 
higher, for example. 
In short. they may have more 
expensive tastes and higher 
expectations as well as greater 
attainments. Scaling the 
heights, their aspirations be­
come more difficult to attain, 
and existing living standards 
become harder to maintain. 
If such families can't avoid stress on two incomes, consider the plight of the one-income family trying to achieve the same goals. 

Siegfried addresses students on keys to business success 
By PIERRE McGILLIS Business Writer 
The mission and opportuni­ties of the Notre Dame/St. Mary Entrepeneur Club was the topic of its initial meeting of the 93­94 school year last night in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Following an introduction of the club by students officers, at­tendees heard Ray Siegfried, Notre Dame graduate and en­trepeneur, speak about aspects of entrepeurship which have major ramifications on success in business, as well as life. 
Timothy Schenck, vice-presi­dent of long-term planning for the club, spoke of the founding of the Entrepeneur Club in the spring of 1992. The group was begun to educate students about the many facets of en­trepeurship, he said. He stressed that the club is grow­ing quickly and hopes to double its membership, which totalled 70 students last year. 
Joanna Parsons, vice-presi­dent of operations for the club, next spoke of her experiences with the club. 
The final introductory speak­er, President Gene Sheikh, spoke of tM individual initiative and achievement He said that the Entrepeneur Club provides rare opportunities for those willing to work hard, to gain hands-on experience in creat­ing and actualizing a goaL 

He also listed the record of Mr. Siegfried, which includes the successful re-engineering of numerous failing companies, and becoming an international leader in the burgeoning aero­space market. Mr. Siegfried has introduced an innovative management style which demands excellence from all employees, and in return grants each the freedom to take risks and solve problems with­out consulting layers of bureau­cracy. Mr. Siegfried is also very active in community and civic ventures, and in fact, built Notre Dame's Siegfried HalL 
He noted that in the last forty years, the number of busi­nesses created in America has risen from 100,000 per year to over 1,000,000 per year. "Many see opportunities but don't take action. Many others don't even make the effort to see opportunities. A few, though, the successful few, see opportunities in business, and seize them. These are the en­trepeneurs." 
He also explained that suc­cessful entrepeneurs have the ability to make positive self­assessments, in which they can make the tough choices that 
Page9 


The Observer/John Bingham 

The Entrepeneur Club held its first meeting of the year yesterday. Raymond Siegfried II was the guest speaker. 
are so crucial to success in gusto, and realize their dream business and life. of self-excellence, he added. 
Entrepeneurs also have the He concluded his talk by ability and motivation to garner beckoning the entrepeneurial all necessary resources, so that spirit in everyone to be chal­they can "build strength and lenged and to reach for great­shore up weaknesses," he said. ness. It was a message which Those who are successful, pre­fit well with the goals and sumably like Mr. Siegfried him­hopes of the Entrepeneur Club self, seize opportunity with in 1993-94. 


Business Administration founds College Fellows 
By NICK VAKKUR Business Writer 
Normally when a government of any sort comes up with a "riew" plan to improve the social welfare of its con­stituents, those in the business sector scurry for cover. How­ever, The College Fellows Pro­gram, a program founded by the Notre Dame Student Gov­ernment is primarily targeted towards undergraduate stu­dents enrolled in the College of Business Administration. 
The program, which was guided through its various stages of development by Stu­dent Body Vice President Nikki Wellman, has been designed to mimic a similar plan already well established in the College of Arts and Letters entitled the College Fellows. 
Wellman believes that though the program to be administered in the College of Business will not initially be as large or as well funded as its original pre­decessor, it is hoped that as interest grows an increased amount of funding may be allo­cated from various resources. 
According to Student Gov-

BUSINESS BRIEFS 
ernment, the intent of the pro­gram is to effectively improve the interpersonal relationships of business students and their respective professors by facili­tating student-faculty social events. By subsidizing the cost of such interchanges, student government hopes that the nat­ural gains to be reaped from an increased level of student-facul­ty association might be trans­ferred into the classroom. 
Student Government hopes that students will come to feel more relaxed with those very individuals professionally re­sponsible for instructing them in business fundamentals, re­sulting in the learning process being further facilitated. 
The success of the program will be based on the extent to which it is utilized by those very individuals it is designed to serve, according to Wellman. 
"The program is engineered as such that it is students in the College of Business Adminis­tration who must take the ini­tiative to implement it," said Wellman. "It is up to the busi­ness student to develop a cre­ative idea for a group social event with a professor, though faculty members are welcome to initiate class participation in the program as well." 
According to the guidelines of the program, students who believe that they have come up with an appropriate idea and who wish to receive partial funding for it through the pro­gram must receive the signa­ture approval of the professor involved. 
Student Government present­ly has a minimum of $3,000 allocated for this program, and it is hoped that all funding will be allocated in a matter of weeks. 
Possible ideas might include a class meal at a professor' s home, a tour of a local plant, or the sponsoring of a forum to discuss economic issues with pizza to follow. 
Events that are accepted for funding through the College Fellows will receive a reim­bursement for activities of as much as three dollars per per­son, to be determined accord­ing to need. The event, how­ever, must be for an academic class and sponsorship cannot be used to fund the activities of student clubs. 
According to Wellman, the possibility of an increase in 
funding in future semesters will be heavily based on the the immediate popularity of the program with students. 
Professor Donald Fehrs of the College of Business Adminis­tration thinks highly of the in­tent of the program, but also notes that students often do not take full advantage of time that is already available to them and that could be used for very sim­ilar purposes. 
"Therefore," states Fehrs, "students must be willing to take an increased amount of initiative to make this a suc­cess." 
Caroline Callahan, an assis­tant professor in the College of Business Administration has recognized for years the posi­tive effects of creating a class­room environment free of ex­cessive student-faculty barriers. Consequently, she has often financed out of her own purse the entire cost of inviting stu­dents to her home for dinner or for food for an in-class party. 
According to Wellman, the key determinant which will al­low this growth to occur will be the level to which students ac­tively participate via creating ideas and seeking funds. 

NEW}'ORK WASHINGTON 

DEARBORN, Mich. 
Craving more passengers to fill jets, 
The Clinton administration was prepar· 
United Auto Workers and Ford Motor 
the airline industry scrapped a $20 round~ 
ing a high-pr()ftle start Monday to it$ fall 
Co. bargainers worked under· an in· 
lobbying campaign on qehalf the NAFTA
trip fare increase on Monday .and went a 
formapon blackout Monday as they ,tried 
step further by cutting prices up to 45 per· 
agreement/Treasury Secretary Lloyd 
to fmish writing apattem contract for the 
Bentsen confidently predicted the adminis~
cent.Northwest Airlines started the fare 
auto industry before a Tuesday night
cut, dooming an earlier effort by TWA to 
tration will be able to overcome strong 
deadline. Activity was brisk on the second 
lead the industry in an across-the-board 
congressional opposition.Meeting with 
floor of Ford headquarters, where bar~ 
increase. Other major airlines~ American, 
reporters Monday, Bent~eri conceded .that 
gainers have been meeting in incre~ingly
United, Delta. Continental. USAir, TWA 
the administration does not yet have the 
longersessions since last week, But UAW 
and Ford officials provided no update on 
the status of talks to reporters or to UAW 

--~------~-------­
--.-------~--·~-----~--------~~-~---­



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, Spetmeber 14, 1993 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor  Business Manager  
Kevin Hardman  Brian Kennedy  
News Editor................ Mercdith McCullough  Advertising Manager.....................Anne Heroman  
Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar  Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman  
Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager........................ Cheryl Moser  
Accent Editor ......................... Kenya johnson  Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth  
Photo Editor .................................jake Peters  OTS Director................................ Brendan Regan  
Saint Mary's Editor............. jennifer Habrych  Controller .......................................Mark Meenan  

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du LAic and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos;ible. Unsigned edi­<Orials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edi<Or-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sport• Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemarics, lc:ners and Inside Columns prcsmt the views of rhc authors, and not O('Ccssarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and m all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions chrough lc~ncrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Managing Edi<Or/Viewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Sysrems/OTS  631-8839  
News/Photo  63'1-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  


STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Chastising you for not putting your aluminum cans in the recycling bins around campus would be like chastising a child for sucking her left thumb rather than right. In other words, you should not have to recycle, rather, you should sim­ply not buy. 
If Coca-Cola dropped off the face of the planet (along with McDonald's. and every other fast food establishment for that matter) would we really be los­ing anything? Absolutely not. Then why do corporations like Coca-Cola and McDonald's exist? Because consumers like yourselves are duped into believing that you somehow need a Coke or a Big Mac. 
Notre Dame students. in fact, epitomize American con­sumerism. You shop at the mall which has destroyed American inner cities, and in national chains like Gap and J. Crew rather than at locally owned businesses that will keep their earnings in the South Bend 
DOONESBURY 



HeY, YO,
QA95 OF 1997: MAY 
I OFFICIAU.Y W£j/...(ffvtf3 YOU TO TJ-18 ftU.OW'3HIP Of THI~ CO/..LUJ/3 ... 
""' 

economy. 
You buy your soft drink before class when water would not only save you money but would be an infinitely healthier alternative. You consume alco­hol on the weekends, hot dogs during football games. and hamburgers in the dining halls when you could easily do with­out. 
You pay $20 to submit your resume at Career and Placement so you can interview for a job that will make you a lot of money when you gradu­ate. You major in business, management and accounting so you can become prosperous in a short amount of time. Of course, then you will begin to donate money to charities, and more than likely to the least needy charity of all-Notre Dame. 
The purpose here is not to derogate all Notre Dame stu­dents, but simply to point out the absolutely ridiculous lives you lead. Not only do most of 
GAIA SPEAKS 

you strive for such a lifestyle, but you fail to realize its sheer unsustainability. 
The earth is not necessarily polluted because of the McDonald's and Coca-Colas in the world. but because of peo­ple who continue to unneces­sarily consume. 
So the next time you are about to buy something, whether it be a beer, a ham­burger, or a new leather weave belt, think about whether or not you really need it. Think about how it was made: With what labor? Where? With what nat­ural resources? 
Consider the implications of your consumption of that prod­uct, and realize the power of the dollar to change the world-not because it is a dol­lar that can be spent, but because it is a dollar that can be saved. 
Stephen Zavestoski is an earth dweller from the Pacific coastal bioregion. 
IA/HE;N I ust THe IA.KJR[) 15N'TTHAT 
"FtuOWSHIP,' OF COIJRS£;, AN !MPUCJT­I MAY/3eI SP&AI< OF AN 1{){3AL, 
t,YRACIST TOOLAT&. AN !O&At., THAT IN R&C&NT I
STATEMENT~ 

YeARS HAS INCReASIN6t.,Y COM&UNf?£RF/f<&,.. 
/c 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
"Wanted" ad offends 0 bserver readers 
Dear Editor: 

We were unpleasantly sur­prised to find that The Observer printed Ci'rlssified ads in the "Wanted" section which offered to hire female students to pose for "suggestive yet tasteful" photos. The Observer's acceptance of these ads and the administration's failure to disallow the practice seemed especially ironic in light of the fact that a certain gay and lesbian organization, whose purpose is support and education, is not even allowed to advertise its name in the Observer. We would certainly rather see our two daughters, when they are in college, attend meetings of a group such as Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College than sell "suggestive yet tasteful" images of themselves to heterosexual strangers. 
Angela Gugliotta 
Graduate Student 
Michael Kremer 
Associate Professor of Philosophy 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
... RECIJ6Nil!NG, OF (J){)R;£, TH/IT' 
" Their tops are made out of rubber, their bot­toms are made out of 
. , 
spnngs ... 

Tigger, the tiger 
ACC~NT 
Tuesday, September 14, 1993 page 11 
The Sounds 01 Music 

Freddy Jones Band performs debut album at Heartland 
By ROlANDO DE AGUIAR Music Critic 
They like to say that they are not the Grateful Dead. 
But the members of the Freddy Jones Band sure do a good imitation. 
Rolling into Michiana on the latest leg of their plan for world domination, the group will play at Heartland Wednesday night, a sort of homecoming to South Bend. 
The quintet, who toured this summer with such Dead de­scendants as Blues Traveler and Col. Bruce Hampton and the Aquarium Rescue Unit, 
MUSIC REVIIEW 
originally formed at Holy Cross College. 
Guitarist Wayne Healy and singer Marty Lloyd linked up at Holy Cross in 1989, years after first playing together as high school students in suburban Chicago. They returned to the Windy City to pick up band members, and later made a Wednesday night home for themselves at Club Shenanigans here in South Bend, which burned down just over a year ago. 
The group makes a return to its one-time home at a venue that might seem a slightly country and a little bit too west-
COLLEN HAGEN 

Tripping Daisy's music earns national recognition 
Combining Chicago's Smash­
ng Pumpkins and the leg­endary band Pink Floyd would produce a sound similar to that of Tripping Daisy, except that Tripping Daisy has a sound that cannot be replicated. 
Signed to Island Records in March of 1993, this new band out of Dallas has won nation­wide attention with their 10 track debut "Bill". 
The characteristic of this band that catches attention is the fact that they are true musicians. Tim DeLaughter, 
27. catches the attention of the listener immediately with a powerful three line solo in the beginning of the first track titled "My Umbrella". 
Guitarist Wes Berggren, 21, bassist Mark Pirro, 22, and drummer Bryan Wakeland quickly follow suit to bring the listener to a new level in music. 
"My Umbrella" is a raw, hard edged tune that sets the stage for the rest of the CD. It's an upbeat song and lets the world know that they've arrived and are not going to be quiet about it. 
Their upbeat attitude heard in "My Umbrella" carries over through the entire CD. They're a very entertaining band that has something new to say with each song. 
"Change of Mind" presents a change of pace and style for Tripping Daisy in the fourth track. They make a dramatic switch from a very fast paced, hard sound to a dreamy, psy­chedelic, trance-like sound. 
Two tracks later, when the listener thinks the rest of the CD will continue on at the sub­dued pace represented in "Change of Mind". "On the Ground", and "The Morning" . they switch again and wake the listener up as from a dream. They continually keep the lis­tener guessing as to what will come next. 
"Lost and Found" are two · 
songs that make the listener 
want to sit back and take a 
ern. But the Freddy Jones band traces its roots to old country music as well as the Allman Brothers. In June, the group inked a deal with Capricorn records, a Warner Brothers-as­sociated label based near Nashville, Tenn. Perhaps Heartland is just hick enough. 
Despite those unexpected points of reference, the Dead are certainly the band's most significant influence. Keeping with the legendary group's ideal of constant touring, the Freddy Jones Band has been on the road for much of its career. And, following the path laid by neo-Dead establishments like 
college life. 
Not only are they songs that keep the attention of the listen­er, they also present excellent musicianship. These two songs in particular indicate the raw talent that Tripping Daisy has. Many times, bands feel it's up to them to make social commentaries about the decline of morals in America or Phish and Blues Traveler, the group has lined up Justin Niebank to produce its major­label debut, which will be released in late September or early October. 
The Freddy Jones Band's self­titled debut. a self-produced slab of vinyl released last sum­mer, was a mellow affair. Full of folksy guitar strumming and good-time vibes, it sounded like what the band's fans imagine the music sounded like during the summer of love. 
But though that album was the soundtrack to a hallucina­tion, the Freddy Jones Band live is turned up a notch or two. The band live, according to all reports, is a little louder, a little more raucous, and a little more fun. 
Just what everyone wishes a Grateful Dead show would be. 
fine if you're in a thinking mood. 
This CD holds the social com­mentaries down to a minimum with two tracks titled "Blown Away" and "Triangle", a look a television evangelists. 
They have a sound that soon catch on nationwide, represent themselves well 
"Bill". 
Medical. Minute 
lly RYAN J. GRABOW 
EMT.-B,W 

Most 'or us here under the Golden Dome have had at one time or another the unfortunate· experience o awakening with a dry "cotton.. mouth, severe thirst, slight to moderate dizziness, a general feeling of,malaise, and a severe headache the morning after·a night of drunken revelry . 
. In Germany this experience is referred to as katzenjammer {"the wailing of cats"), but here in the States we use the more familiar term HANGOVER. 
The severity.of a. hangover is determined by the type and quantity of alcohol consumed. Brandy, bourbon, and red wines cause more severe hang­overs due .to a high concentra­tion of congeners {secondary products of <!Ioohol fermenta..., tion). Some people can con­sume more alcohol than others and feel no ill effects due to their size. gender. or tolerance, 
No math}~ what type of a.lcff'­hol. is C()DslJlile~ Qr how high a. Jolerance opt.t ha&, a hangOver cannot be avoided if one con. sumes aloohol ar a faster rate than it can Qe processed by the body (0.5 ounces of alcohol per hour). 
Several Jt~ths have devel~ oped over the years concerning ways in·which one can avoid the effects of a hangover. Some such fallacies ~re: consuming a large quantity of fatty foods. drin.king cpoking oil before consuming alcohol, or taking aspirin or vitamin Blolbefore drinking or going to bed. 
The reason none of these 
"remedies" work is do to the 
physiological effects alcohol 
has on thebody. By consuming 
alcohol one inhibits the pro­
duction of ADH {antidiuretic 
hormone) which controls the 
amount of water one passes 
through the body. Due to alco­
holic inhibition of ADH, the 
body will excrete a greater 
amount of water than it is tak~ 
ing in, resulting in mild de­
hydration. 

The dry mouth, severe thirst, 
and general feeling of malaise 
one experiences are due to this 
dehydrating effect of alcohol. 
Drinking water before and 
after consuming alcohol will 
help minimize these symptoms, 
yet water cannot completely 
relieve all the symptoms of the 
hangover. 

In additionto its dehydrating 
effect. alcohol also affects the 
body by causing the blood ves­
sels to dilate. It is the dilation 
of the blood vessels within the 
brain that causes the headache 
associated with a hangover. 

Contrary to popular belie 
aspirin can do nothing to elimi­
nate this headache. since 
aspirin itself also causes blood 
vessels to dilate. 

Unfortunately. the pain of a 
hangover will only cease when 
the body nas processed all the 
alcohol in the blood and the 
blood vessels return to normal. 
If you're going to celebrate 
-
with alcohol. drink in modera­tion: or else the morning after may make you wish you were never there the night before. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 14,1993 
Rypien might only miss one game with knee injury 
By MAlT YANCEY 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
Mark Rypien hopes a break in the Washington schedule will enable him to miss only one game-this Sunday against the Eagles in Philadelphia-be­cause of his knee injury. 
"Having only one game in the next three weeks, I'm gearing for that Monday night in Miami," the Washington quar­terback said Monday after doc­tors found a partially torn medial collateral ligament in his right knee and prescribed a three-to six-week layoff. 

After the Eagles game, the Redskins are ofT for a week be­fore playing the Dolphins on Oct. 4. Even if Rypien's recov­ery takes the full six weeks, he would miss only two other games, at home against the Giants on Oct. 10 and at Phoenix Oct. 17. 
"I would look toward the short side," said Dr. Charles Jackson, the Redskins' ortho­pedic surgeon. "We've treated him for multiple things before -his other knee, his ankle, his shoulder. He's exceedingly tough and shocks you at how quickly he recovers." 
Jackson said the injury is not as serious as the sprain to Rypien's left knee that required arthroscopic surgery and kept him out of six games in 1990. 

No surgery will be required this time, although Rypien will have to ,wear a protective brace the rest of the season, he said. 
"Under the circumstances, it's about the best that we could hope for," said coach Richie Petitbon, who in August lost his top offensive lineman, three­time Pro Bowl tackle Jim Lachey, for the season to a sev­ered anterior cruciate ligament in his knee. 
An MRI exam Monday on Rypien showed no damage to either the anterior or posterior cruciates, two ligaments more critical to stabilizing the knee than the medial collateral. 
The 30-year-old 1992 Super Bowl MVP suffered the injury in the Redskins' 17-10 loss against the Cardinals when he was tackled by Eric Swann after scrambling five yards for a first down early in the second quar­ter. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at tho Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 r..m. at 309 Haggar Collq Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All clasSifieds must be prepaid. ·n
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, inCluding all splcc:s. 
BRUNO'S PIZZA needs PT  Will give first-born son for four USC  I NEED MSU STUD TIXIII  HELP!  WANTED  
NOTICES  Hostesses and Drivers (for Campus Deliveries) Call John at 288-3320.  tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob at 273-0620.  Mike x4-1103 -------­ $$$Need 4 Pitt GA'sll call Katie 273-6324$$$  PITT AND FSU TIX. X2756 WILL PAY BIG BUCKS.  
NEED PITT GA'S  
Typing  SPRING BREAK '94-SELL TRIPS,  WANTED: SEASON  GA TICKETS.  X232-3807  WANTED!I!IIIIIIIIII  NEED 1 PITT GA. x3533-joe.  
287-4082  EARN CASH & GO FREEl!!  272-7233.  
Student Travel Services is now hir­ MSU GAs WANTED! AMY x4813  3-4 G. A.'s  WHY WORRIED FOR I D'S ?  
"#"11"1#"1#"1#"1#"1#"1#"#"#"1#"#"1#"1#"11"  ing campus reps. Call @800-648­ FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  
ATTENTION ALL HISTORY  4849.  277-1659.  u.s.c.  TICKETS MSU OR BOOKLET  
MAJORS  NEED MSU + FSU GA'S  october 23 (fall break)  271 19 98  
Don't fortget to attend the Welcome  Calling all WOMEN (students, facul­ NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN  TOM @ 271-2908  
Back Picnic on 9/15 @  ty, staff) I Do you have something  STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074  call:  
5:30 on the green between Zahm  to say? Do you express yourself  I NEED 3 GAS & 1 STUD  2725  HAVE PITT GA'S TO TRADE OR  
& Stanford. Rain location is in  through poetry, music, testimony, or  Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU  FOR PITT CALL 4248  SELL FOR 1 MICH. ST. TIX.  
Zahm's basement.  duck calling? You are needed for  tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill  $NEED$  KEVIN x1230  
an NO Women Speak Out night on  (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo  MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS  
TOASTMASTERS  Monday, September 20.  Please  WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR  CALL JOHN AT X1227  
INTERNATIONAL KICK-OFF  call Katie at 634-2728 or Linda at  WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP  NO -MICH. ST. GA TIX. CALL  -PLEASE HELP- 
Wed. Sept. 15 at 7 pm  232-2739 to sign up. Don't worry,  TICKET TO SAN FRAN.  JOE AT 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M.  I NEED 2 PIT GAS  
Haggar Parlor -SMC  there are no auditions!  (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA  $$ 'rents are paying $$  NEED ONE GIRL'S STUD. PITT  
Come join usllll  TIXI!I MIKE at X1573  ALUM WILL PAY$$$ FOR TWO  call jim at 273-5823  TICKET FOR VISITING BEST  
OR FOUR TICKETS TO ANY OR  FRIEND  
1 or 2 roomates for furnished home.  ALL OF THE FOLLOWING HOME  FSU STU NEEDED$$$2448  DAVE-1436  
""ATTENTION: There will be NO  Nice, clean ... 259-0219  Need 1 Pitt GA. Call x2969 Lisa  GAMES: PITTSBURGH, USC,  
off-campus women's flag football team. Off-campus women can play on their previous dorm team. ••  I  Need Mich. St. & USC G.A.s call Mike x0600  FLORIDA STATE, BOSTON COL­LEGE. CALL BILL HOGAN (OFFICE) 217-782-6995  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST.  
ILOST & FOUND I BED 'N:~:F~:G:TRY  I NEED 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 634-1862.  (ANS. MACHINE) 217-698-9267 WANTED: 2-4 TICKETS FSU/ND 1-800-524-5999  USC Stud. Ticket for sale -best offer will get it. Call Kenya at x4341 or x4553  GA:s 2773097 $$$$NEED GA's-ALL HOME$$$: $$$$GAMES. Steve x1217$$$$$  
LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM  219-291-7153  HELPII NEED USC AND FSU  
FROM A NECKLACE-VERY  TIX. CALL KEV. X1689  I need Msu Tix  
IMPORT ANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF  Will trade MSU(8) and BC(6) tix for  NEED GA'S FOR USC,FSU & BC  Will pay cash or trade for  
FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777.  GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING  NEED 2 OR 3 MSU TICKETS.  Southern Cal. Call631-6305 or  CALL NICK X1777  Pitt GA's  John 273-4119  
OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­ WILL BUY OR WILL TRADE 2  291-4240.  
Lost: Silver colored Seiko man's  DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT.  PITT TICKETS. (412)741-4059.  
watch at NW !-ball game. Engraved  $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA.  U need money, I need tix(stud or  $$1 need a guy's student ticket for  
on back: Love, Helen 2-23-88.  JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444.  $$ I NEED 2 USC Ga's will pay  GA) for USC,FSU,&BC. Let's do  NEED 2 MSU GA TICKETS. WILL  the Michigan St. game ASAP.  
Great Sent. value. Call John collect  good money. call Eric x1777 $$  business! David 4-3830  PAY TOP DOLLAR FOR GOOD  Call Bridget at 4015$$  
@ 312-587-1768  HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE.  SEATS. CALL SCOTT AT 271­ 
NICE ACCOMMODATIONS.  NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL  I NEED 2 GA'S FOR MSU!$  9740.  
LOST: silver cross on leather  271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING  HOME NO GAMES  X4355  
choker, great sentimental value, if found please call x4906  MACHINE.  CALL AARON X1868  NEED USC GA'S, WILL TRADE FOR BC T/X. CALL JIM @ 289­ PERSONAL  
PRIVATE ROOM IN HOME FOR  Profanely Wealthy Notre Dame  NEED 3 GA'S FOR MSU.  6648.  
LOST-OPAL PENDANT  GRAD. STUDENT. COOKING  Fanatic Needs 2 Pitt GAs.  JAY X1534  SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The  
PLEASE PLEASE CALL 4248  PRIVILEGES, GARAGE & LAUN­ Call Pat at x1550  $$$$$$$ HELP! NEED 1 PITT GA  Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends  
DRY. CALL 291-2258.  X3650  
Au Paul Shoaps is the lizard king.  
Lost a disk-case with four 3-1/21n.  BED & BREAKFAST IN HOME OF  I need 2 MSU tixl Lisa x 2569  DESPERATELY SEEKING TWO  Need 2 Fla. St. GA's  
disks, on 9/6 (Mon). between  SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS PAR­ PITT GAs-WILL PAY BIG$$$$.  Best offer-call TJ 232-5030  
DeBartolo and the Golden Dome  ENTS. CLOSE TO STADIUM.  I'm sorta rich and very desperate.  CALL ALISA@ 4-1302.  What are YOU doing for fall  
(prob'ly In 331 DeBartolo). The  CALL 258-7935.  Need Mich St. tixl Call Darren at  I STILL  break?Consider the WASHINGTOI  
disks are labeled ·me," ·myself,"  287-8090  Desperately need 3 MSU GA's.  NEED  SEMINAR In D.C. with the  
"1," and "fonts." Very important to me, please help! Cai1287-7696  FOR SALE  Call Keith at 273-3920.  usc FSU  CSC.Information night: Tues. Sept 14  
if you've found them.  For sale/trade  HELP! NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  GAs  7:00-7:30 p.m  
WORD PROCESSOR PANASON­ 1 MSU stud. tic  634-4263 MOLLY  288-5282 KYLE  at the esc  
IC W-1510, $250 EXCELLENT  Need tix. for any  or pick up an application at the  
LOST:"1928' cross necklace on s  CONDITION  other games  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT  4 SALE PITT USC FSU BC  CSC. Don't miss ill If  
quad 9/1 0 call 2344  289-2537  Tom J. x40559  TICKET BOOKLET  STUDENTS 232-3736  
232 4827  
WANTED  ALARM SYSTEMS; CAR, HOME AND PERSONAL ALARMS. FOR  Tickets wanted-4-USC or Pitt game. Call M. McCarthy 215-471-6241  Need 1 Mich. St. ticket  NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC  Join the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club!  
INFORMATION CALL JASON@  for my dying sister  MATT @ 232-3870  Starting this Thursday 8:00-9:30  
237-9702.  FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUD.  call x1572  attheStepan Center  
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS!  BOOKLETS. CALL LAURA AT  Ques? Call Karen 4-2110  
EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING  BEER  SIGNS OF ALL KINDS  2778598.  I HAVE 4 GAs FOR  Daniella 284-4061 or  
BREAK TRIPS I SELL ONLY 8  CALL COLIN AT 273-6205  Pitt and BC  NEED 4 MICH ST. GAs.  I CAN  Laurie 4-3490  
TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS  Call and make an offer...  BUY OR SELL YOU 40 TIMES  
...  & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITY! 1-800­ '89 TOYOTA Corolla DX Wagon. Excellent condition. 5 speed,  Stud Tixbook 4 sale,call Tom@254­9068 or lv Msg.  Jeff@ 1597  OVER, SO MONEY IS NO OBJECT. CALL JOE RUSSO AT  TOP 1 0 REASONS TO COME see the Chicano Secret Service,  
678-63861  power steering & brakes, A/C, FM  234-6306.  
cassette, roof rack. 7Bk mi. $6400.  My parents are coming out for the  ADOPTION IS LOVE  
Yesterdays Food & Spirits,  Call (219) 277-4422.  FSU game and they need GA's I  NEED 2 MSU GAs. CALL KERR I  Loving Indiana medical profession·  
Granger. IN, hiring for: servers, bar­ will trade parent's weekend GA's  Really Need 2 USC GA's for family  CARPENTER, AKA EDITH  als eager to adopt newborn.  
tenders, line cook. Exp. pref. but  1990 NISSAN 240 SX, 5-SPEED,  and cash. I really need these! call  Paul x1556  BUNKER, AT X2635.  Medical/Legal paid. Confidential.  
not nee. for info call272-7017  LOADED, 13,000 MILES, MINT  Mike at 2061.  Call our home toll free to hear all  
CONDITION. $11,000. 271-1839.  PLEASE HELP, NEED MICH. ST.  NEED 2 MSU GAs X1786 DESI  about us. Jaci and Jon 1-800-224­ 
TRAVEL FREE! CANCUN,  SWM, 19, despralley seeks 2 GA's  G.A.'S. CALL 287-8090  2429.  
JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADRE!  '89 Sentra  for the B.C. game. If you can help,  Need MSU stud tic Will trade Call  
SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK  38,000 miles  excel. cond.  please call Ken at x4245.  Jen x2801  CHINESE PERSON NEEDS PAR­ 
PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­ service records  $5490  NEED TWO GA'S FOR  NER TO HELP PRACTICE SPEA~  
SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH  call631-6414  Need MSU GA's  TRADE 2  PITT GAs for 2 SC or  lNG ENGLISH SKILLS. CALL 631·  
TOURS 1-800-426-7710  x4519  MICHIGAN STATE  FSU  GAs.  BOB.  277-2510.  6277. WILL HELP WITH CHINESE  
TICKETS  Need 2 Ga's for Pitt game. Please  CALL JOSE AT 634-2173  NEED 1-4 MSU GA'S  IN EXCHANGE.  
NEEDED 3 PITT TIX  Call Will x3080  PLEASE CALL x3467  "FALL BREAK CAMPING TRIP"  
X2558  TARA  I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL  INTERESTED IN HIKING IN THE  
TIXS.272-6306  I need GA and Student tickets for  GREAT SMOKY MOUNTAINS?  
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­ Have 2 Pitt GA's. Will trade for BC  NEED MSU GA'S  MSU!  Will pay$! Howie 273-5347  GO TO ST. EDS TV RM.  
Make money teaching basic con­ or FSU. Alan x1933  ANGIE 273-5805  THURS. 9/16 AT 7:30 OR CALL  
versational English abroad. Japan,  NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR  NO vs USC -Need tickets for  CHRIS 4-1665  
Taiwan. and S.Korea. Make up to  EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  10/23 game.Chris Marks  
$2000-$4000+ per month. Many  11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT  Wanted: 1 Pitt GA  MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK 4  800-523-3139.  Hey Liz, somebody caresII II  
provide room & board + other bene­ 1 BOO 543 0357  call x-3265  SALE. CALL 277-7876.  Have a great weeki  
fits. No previous training or teaching  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED FSU TIX. CALL COLLECT  P.S. Gee Joe, we're sorry!  
certificate required. For more infor­ I need 6 Mich-State GAs If  215-539-8421 AFTER 5 PM.  Love Brian  
mation call: (206)632-1146 ext.  NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641  Alumni needs 2 GA tix 4 Mich St.  Paul 273-5972  
J5584  KEVIN  Pitt, & Fla St. Will pay top $$. Call  NEED$$ FOR FALL BREAK?  Ritchie has got the bananas!  
Susan at X1285.  NO ALUM WILL BUY USC STU­ 
!HEY!  DENT TIX OR WILL TRADE MSU  Ritchie is hot and juicy!  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-fish­ NEED G.A.'S-3 PITT, 4 USC. 4  NEEDED:  2 Pitt G.A.'s  $Need 2 stud. tix-any game$  & BCGAs.  
eries. Earn up to $2000-$4000+  FSU.  PLEASE CALL Joe @ 1613.  Call ELISSA x4982  $Katie 273-6324$  (502)444-8292.  Is Ritchie Elvis?  


The Observer • NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL page 13 
-
Trgovac' s speech inspires Irish upset 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. 

Mike Trgovac's loyalties crashed head-on in the locker room before Notre Dame played Michigan last weekend. The emotional, wet-eyed speech that followed ignited two upsets. 
With his passion for the Notre Dame-Michigan series flowing like the tears from his eyes, the Michigan-star-turned-Notre­Dame-coach whipped the un­derdog Irish into the frenzy that carried them to Saturday's 27­
23 win. 

"I was never so emotionally charged up for a game," said Notre Dame linebacker Peter Bereich, the most fiery player on the Irish defense. "I came out pumped up, with tears in my eyes and everything." 
Trgovac, 34, Notre Dame's assistant head coach and de-
The Observer/Sean McDonough Defensive line coach Mike Trgovac, shown here instructing end Thomas Knight, inspired the Irish before this weekend's big win. 
WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 13, 1993 
fensive line coach, wouldn't re­veal Monday exactly what he said to the team. He said Lou Holtz gave him about a minute to prepare for the speech, and he recounted his feelings for the 106-year-old rivalry. 
"I just had to say the first thing that came to mind," Trgovac said. "I just told them a little bit about the history of the game. It got me fired up." 
Trgovac joined the Irish staff last year after stints as an assistant at Michigan, Navy, Ball State and Colorado State. 
It was Trgovac's first trip as a coach to Michigan Stadium, where he twice earned All-Big Ten honors as a Wolverine nose guard from 1977-80. 
He had to resist the urge to run across the field to the home team's bench when he entered the stadium. 
"It was difficult to say the least," Trgovac said of his re­turn to Ann Arbor. "It was kind of funny walking out of the tun­nel and stopping so fast. It was a lot of weird feelings." 
The speech was not a wall­punching, chair-throwing ti­rade, he said. It was simply the heartfelt emotion of an excitable man who loves the game and has strong feelings on both sides of the Notre Dame-Michigan rivalry. 

While the speech helped the Irish upset Michigan, Holtz said Trgovac's speech also set a new standard for locker room inspi­ration. 
Holtz compared the speech to the 1928 address in which Notre Dame coach Knute Rockne used the dying words of former Irish star George Gipp to spark an upset of Army. 
"We were at an emotional peak," Holtz said. "Knute Rockne's speech on the Gipper is now No. 2 on the all-time list behind Mike Trgovac's locker room speech up at Ann Arbor." 
NO WOMEN SPEAK OUT 

BOOK FAIR A HUGE SUCCESS 
One week after Stu­The Book Fair was partof 
dent Government's first the campaign platform of ever Book Fair, organizers Student Body President are calling the eventa huge andVice -PresidentFrank success. The event, held at Flynn and Nikki Stepan Center during the Wellmann. first week of school, sold The Fair will be held more than 6,000 books for again next semester. Stu­a total of $40,000 in sales. dent Government is cur­All of that money will be rently exploring ways to ­returned to students who make the event even more submitted books for sale. convenient for students. 
CARD OFFERS BIG SAVINGS 
College students are al­The card is being dis­ways looking for a way to tributed to all Notre Dame save a dollar here or there. students, faculty and staff. This year, Student Gov­On-campus students will 
ernment has made things a receive their card through little easier for bargain their hall president, off­hunters with the introduc­campus students can pick 
tion of the Fighting Irish up their card at the Savings Card. The card is LaFortune Info. desk. free. It looks like a gold So the next time you 
credit card and works like order pizza, need a haircut a re-usable coupon. It of­or even an oil change, take fers discounts and deals at a look atyourdiscountcard 
businesses frequented by -you may be in for a bar­the ND Community. gam. 
Student Government's Women's Concerns Com­mission has formed a new organization to address gender issues on campus. The group is called "ND Women Speak Out". "Speak Out" is designed to promote awareness of women's concerns and to examine issues related to gender. The first meeting will be held on Monday, September 20 at 7:30 pm in 101 DeBartolo, and will feature speakers, poetry reading, and music. 
The entire ND commu­nity is encouraged to be­come a partof"NDWomen Speak Out", and all are in­vited to the first meeting. At the end of the meeting an open microphone will be available to anyone who wants to speak out on gen­der issues. Those inter­ested in helping the group should call Women's Con­cerns Commissioner Katie Glynn in the Student Gov­ernment Office. Withyour help, the women of Notre Dame can make their voices heard. 
page 14 The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
-Moeller and Michigan ponder loss of national title hope 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associat~ Press 
ANN ARBOR. Mich. 

You have justwatched your football team kiss away the mythical national champi­onship for what seems like the 15th straight year. What do you do? 
A. Bang your head against the wall. 
B. Go home and kick the dog. 

C. Howl at Gary Moeller the moon. 
D. None of the above. 

If you are Gary Moeller, you give each of the first three choices serious consideration. Then reality sets in. You look for ways to make your team better. 
"You go back," Moeller said Monday, two days after his Michigan team was upset 27-23 by Notre Dame. "You don't feel sorry for yourself. You don't feel sorry for your players. 
"You don't want to accept defeat. But I don't want to be a jerk about it, either." 
There are many theories about the Wolverines' defeat, which dropped them from third to 10th in this week's AP poll. The air waves were humming all ~eekend. Callers to radio 
·~ 
talk shows blamed everything and everybody. 
Blocking by the tight ends, sloppy tackling, conservative play-calling. Take your pick. Or pick your own villain. 
"You always second-guess yourself," Moeller said. "But I wouldn't change much. 
.. 
.­
"People will say you were overconfident and this and that. Yes, I guess you could say that. But what I saw was a lot of kids who tried very hard. They just didn't do it very smartly." 
The unexpected defeat came in just the second game of the season. So the big question now is whether Moeller can get his players mentally prepared to play hard the rest of the way. Can he convince them that the Big Ten title is a worthwhile goal? 
"I don't think that's going to be a problem," Moeller said. "You'd be lying if you said you thought about the national championship but didn't say it. But, maybe we should do it and talk about it later. 
"Maybe we were overconfi­dent. But I can't say I saw a lot of guys standing around." 
And he bristled at the sug­gestion that a national champi­onship is the only goal a college football team like Michigan should shoot for, that nobody really cares who wins the Big Ten title. 
Ex-Irish assistant leads Wisconsin 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. Wisconsin Coach Barry Alvarez on Monday praised his 
defense despite the 37 4 total yards Southern Methodist amassed in its 24-16 loss to the Badgers in 

D a 1 1 a s Barry Alvarez 
Saturday night. 
"The bottom line is not how many yards they throw for, it's how many points (they put) on the board," Alvarez said. ''I'm pleased with the progress of our secondary." 
Alvarez said he was happy for his players and UW alumni that Wisconsin advanced to No. 24 in the Associated Press weekly football poll. It marked the first time since 1984 that the Badgers were rated in the top 25 by The AP. 
"They have gained some re­spect," the coach said of his players. And the rating will give 

Look Who's 211 
Happy Birthday Megan E. Heyward From the P.B. C/u 

the alumni a chance to "beat on their chests at the office or whatever," he said. 
"I was very pleased the way our team reacted Saturday night," the coach said. "They battled the elements. It was 95 degrees. (The performance) was really outstanding," he said. 
Alvarez cautioned that the team must concentrate on Saturday's game with Iowa State in Camp Randall Saturday because the rating "is not going to mean anything" against the Cyclones. 
Iowa State Coach Jim Walden has said this year's team is the best he has had in his seven years as head coach of the Big Eight school. Two years ago, the Cyclones lost 7-6 to Wisconsin, as the Badgers blocked Ty Stewart's 33-yard field goal attempt with 15 sec­onds to go. 
Running back Brent Moss said the victory in Dallas was proof the Badgers can win away from home even if they have to battle from behind. The victory was only the second on the road for Alvarez, now in his fourth year at Wisconsin. 
"We really don't need a crowd to get us psyched up," said Moss, who rushed for a ca­reer high 181 yards against the Mustangs. 
Moss, recalling the one-point victory over Iowa State two years ago, said there can be no letdown Saturday. 
''I'm sure the game is going to be tough," Moss said. 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship invites you to attend our 
Bible Study tonight! 7:00-8:30 p.m. Tuesday, September 14th at the esc 
Fellowship Meeting 6:30-8:00 p.m. Friday, September 17th at the esc -->where cool people go for singing, fellowship and fun! 
Questions? Call Kevin at 273-1757 or Lisa at 43860 
BACK

BY POPULAR DEMAND 

Tom DeLuca 
Master Hypnotist 
Friday, September 1 7rh ,. 9:00 p.m. Washington Hall ,. Tickets: $3°0 Available at LaFortune Information Desk 
Sponsored by Office of Student Activities 


~----------------~ ­
The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL page 15 

.dietcenteroffersreductions 
likethis. 
I 
I 

__, 
Apple Macintosh Apple Macintosh LC Ill 4/WJ, Apple Basic Cok!r 
Built-inKe;board &J(J' Backlit Super Twist !tlooocbrome Dispay.

Monitor &Apple Keyboard II. 
Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh'" see just how affordable aMacintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus 
personal computers. You can also get special student financing with Reseller today. And discover the power more college students '­
the Apple" Computer Loan·-to make owning aMac" even easier. 1b choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your bese tl.. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
"AtwiabJe 1o qualij)'t1~g Sludmls. a1 parlldpaliiiJ: au!bonzed Apple Campus Resellm. ©1993 AppW compuJer. Inc. All rigbls resm'f!d AP/Jk. lbe Apple logo, Mac. Maatllosh and '1bt potL'n' kJ beyour best" arr rogfsterrd lmdenwrlzs ofApple Computer. !tiC. Macinlosb ~·anti l'oo'fT'Booi are tradmJark.'J· of.WJk CompuJer.Jnc Cfassic 0· a regWmcl fr(/(lnnmt lk:ti/Sed to .A,pp/1! Computer. Inc 
___j 
Cenlris'"610 4/WJ, Apple Basic Cok!r Mo11itor &AppleExlli!Jded Ke;board H. 
IT'S BACK! 
Beat The Clock Tuesday! 
5:00p.m... 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza lS the time you call! 

Notevenyourlocal 
Color Qassic• 4/WJ, Buill-in J(J' Color Monitor &Apple Ke;board H. 
Cleveland frustrates Young in upset 
By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND The Cleveland Browns could think of no better test. 
And after three painful losing seasons, the Browns proved Monday night they can play with the best again, beating the San Francisco 49ers 23-13 in the biggest victory of Bill Belichick's three years as coach. 
The Browns (2-0) did it with defense, intercepting three passes from Steve Young, forc­ing him to fumble once, and blocking a field goal. San Francisco also muffed a 40­yard field goal attempt when holder Klaus Wilmsmeyer jug­gled the snap with 4:32 to play. 
The 49ers (1-1) did not score in the second half. Cleveland's James Jones, a 
AS YOU WISH IMPORT$ 
Many new hand crafted accessories, clothing and jewelry from: 
* Nepal * Mexico * Peru * * India * Guatemala * 
Almost Wholesale Prices! 
LaFortune -Sorin Roona September 1 a • 1 8 (Sat.) 10:30 ana-5 pna 
defensive tackle with a taste for the end zone, turned the game around with a 1-yard TD run in the second quarter, and Bernie Kosar and Michael Jackson teamed on a 30-yard scoring pass that put Cleveland ahead for good just 35 seconds before halftime. 
Jackson also dropped a po­tential touchdown pass on the Browns' very first play, and Kosar overthrew him on an­other early in the fourth quar­ter. 
Young, still bothered by a fractured thumb sustained dur­ing preseason, was intercepted three times for the second straight week, and two of the three led to Cleveland scores. 
The loss stopped the 49ers' nine-game regular-season win­ning streak. It was only the sec­ond loss in the last 13 Monday night games for San Francisco. 
Matt Stover kicked three field goals for Cleveland. Mike Cofer had two for the 49ers, and a third try -a 37 -yarder on San Francisco's best chance of the third quarter -was blocked by Rob Burnett. 
Marc Logan, filling in for in­jured Tom Rathman, scored the 49ers' only touchdown on a 4­yard run in the second quarter. San Francisco also played with­out injured defensive lineman Kevin Fagan, and it lost re­ceiver Odessa Turner for part of the game. Turner left be­cause of a concussion that re­sulted from a scary collision with Cleveland's Eric Turner early in third quarter. 
The 49ers outgained the Browns by a 3-to-1 ratio for much of the first half, but inter­ceptions by Clay Matthews and Selwyn Jones snuffed a couple of possessions. 
Growin'g more confident as the game progressed, the Cleveland defense kept the Niners out of scoring territory most of the second half. Eric Turner intercepted a pass, and Jerry Ball and Michael Dean Perry -the anchors of the de­fense -teamed to shake the ball loose from Young and stop the 49ers after they'd pene­trated to the 25-yard line mid­way through the fourth quar­ter. 
Jones capped an 80-yard 
Cleveland drive with a 1-yard 
TD run on a play that caught 
San Francisco off guard. 

Jones frequently lines up as a 
blocking back on short-yardage 
plays, an alignment popular­
ized by Chicago's William Perry 
in the 1980s. 


page 16 

The Observer • PRO FOOTBALL Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
Absence ofSmith just the beginning of Cowboy woes 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
iated Press 
IRVING, Texas Dallas Cowboys coach Jimmy Johnson, addressing a problem 
he can do something about, said Monday he has sum­moned eight kickers for a tryout to find 

a replacement Emmitt Smith for Lin Elliott. 
Elliott missed two field goal attempts, including a 30­yarder. in Sunday's 13-10 loss to the the Buffalo Bills. 
Asked if he had fired Elliott, Johnson said: ''I'll make a de­cision tomorrow. Elliott has had a year and a half to com­pete for the job. Nothing is resolved but I'm going to look at eight kickers with (kicking coach) Steve Hoffman." 
Elliott missed a field goal and an extra point in an opening 35-16loss to Washington. 
"I dug my grave," he said after Sunday's game. "In prac­tice I do well. On Sunday I struggle. I've let my teammates down." 
Johnson would not name the kickers coming to Valley Ranch but the list was expected to in­clud&Matt Bahr, Eddie Murray, Jim Breech and Rich Andrews. 
"We might lose something on kickoffs because Lin had been doing that well so we'd have to adjust our coverages," Johnson said. 
The other problem, unsigned 
li-Pro running back Emmitt Smith, is something Johnson can't do anything about. 
"We just have to understand 

L 
0 
~ 
7.. .:::J 
0 
uv~t" 
1357 N Ironwood Corner of Edison &Ironwood 
234-6767 
who we are," Johnson said Monday. "We're a different team than the one who went to the Super Bowl. I still think we will get into the playoffs. We just can't sit around and de­pending on Emmitt Smith being with us." 
But there's a hole in the dressing room wall courtesy of defensive end Charles Haley. It symbolizes the frustrations and near revolt of the Cowboys players who feel they can't de­fend their Super Bowl champi­onship without Smith. 
"We'll never win with a rookie running back," said Haley, who imbedded his hel­met into the wall. "We need to either get Emmitt here or they've got to get rid of him." 
"There's a huge cloud hang­ing over this team," safety Bill Bates said. 
Troy Aikman was forced to pass 45 times and was inter­cepted twice in Sunday's 13-10 loss to the Buffalo Bills because rookie Derrick Lassie couldn't produce on the ground as Smith did in the Super Bowl. 
The Cowboys are 0-2 and no team has ever won the Super Bowl after such a start. 
"In the past," Aikman said, clipping his words, "we've had success being a balanced foot­ball team." 
The fans were restless in Texas Stadium. "We want Emmitt, we want Emmitt," the crowd chanted. Another banner read, "Sign Emmitt and Trade Your Ego." 
Smith watched on television from Pensacola, Fla., where he said, "I could miss the entire season." 
"You know it's got to be killing him, watching us play," Bates said. 
WELCOME BACK 
100fo Discount 
on f uII Service 
Must have Student ID full SePVice Salon Hair • Skin • Nails 
AVEDA~ 
TilE AIn ANil SCIEN!"E 

\ lll'l!HE FJ.( )\Vr:J\ AN)) PLANT ESSEN\ :I'S Hair Care • Skin Care • Colour C'"""'' ks 
~NTERNOW!] 
IH CROSS COUNTRY CAMPUS VOLLEYBALL MEN'S.IH SOCCER GRAD/FAC./STAFF SOCCER 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT. 8 DEADLINE SEPT. 16 ENTER IN THE RecSp01ts OFFICE, JACC 
CAMPUS GOLF SCRAMBLE 
TO BE PLAYED ON SEPT. 19 
DEADLINE SEPT. 15 ENTER AT THE <;OLF SHOP, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
.. 
Wannstedt optimistic despite losses 
By JOE MOOSHIL 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
Coach Dave Wannstedt knows his Chicago Bears have not looked good in their first two losses, but he still feels both games could have been won. 
"We've been in a position to win two football games," said Wannstedt Monday following the 10-7 loss at Minnesota. 
Jim McMahon's 16-yard touchdown pass to Cris Carter midway through the fourth quarter turned it around Sunday after the Bears had led 7-3 most of the way. A week earlier, the Bears led 20-19 and lost 26-20 to the New York Giants on a touchdown pass with 1:07 to play. 
"We looked at the films and from the effort standpoint, nothing has changed," said Wannstedt. "The guys put it on the line on every play and played as hard as they could. In the first half we did not take advantage of our opportunities and in the second half we had our backs against the wall." 
The offense managed just 140 yards. 
"Our kicking game and de­fense kept us in the game," Wannstedt said. "We've been close in every game and we're going to get it turned around." 
It will be two weeks before Wannstedt gets another shot at his first victory as a head coach. The Bears have a week off before taking on Tampa Bay on Sept. 26. 
Wannstedt welcomes the break. 
"A month ago I wouldn't have wanted it but because of all the injuries, it comes at a perfect time, not only to re­group but to get some players back." 

Among the players he would most like to see return are tackle Troy Auzenne (knee) and guard John Wojciechowski (ankle) so that quarterback Jim Harbaugh could get better pro­tection. 
"Jim couldn't get his feet set before he had someone hanging on his back," said Wannstedt. "A couple of times he could have thrown to different receivers but most of the time he couldn't get set." 
Wannstedt was encouraged by the defense, which held the Vikings to 275 total yards. 
"If you can hold people to 10 points and under 300 yards, you should win a majority of your games," he said. 
"We have to try to get the ball downfield," said Wannstedt. "We have to take more chances in our passing game. By that I don't mean risk turnovers. The game still comes down to turnovers." 
He was pleased with the ef­fort of tailback Neal Anderson, who made his first start against the Vikings. Anderson, both­ered by a groin injury, had 13 carries for 60 yards and caught 3 passes for 11 yards. But he made most of his yardage in the first half. 

IFliNANCJE ClUB FIRST MEETING 
Tuesday, Sept. 14 
7:00pm 
124 Hayes...Healy 
All club members and interested students are welcome to come. Important information about Career Night and upcoming Club activities. Please bring $5 dues . 
·~----~----------------­

AP File Photo Dave Justice has been a happy man lately, as his Braves have over­taken the Giants for first place in the NL west. 

Take a stand, take the keys, Don•t Drive Drunk!! 
October 24-30, 1993 Experiential/ Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service learning at one of eleven sites in the Appalachian region Student-directed serviceI reflection One-credit Theology 
NEW WOMEN, NEW CHURCH 
Explore the changing role of women in the Church, and related issues of service Experiential learning in Chicago at 
various sites, with women in social ministry One-credit Theology or Gender Studies 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
National Service: Institutional Questions and Future Potentials? 
Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Includes service and political awareness opportunities 
One credit Theology 

Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due: Tuesday, Sept. 21, 1993 

!Associated Press 

CINCINNATI 
Jose Rijo has almost all the numbers necessary to win the Cy Young Award. The only one he's missing is the only one he can't do anything about-wins. 
Blame his Cincinnati Reds 
teammates for that. 

Rijo is one of the National League's most dominant pitch­ers, leading in strikeouts. (197) and earned run average (2.45). He has allowed just 11 earned runs in his 12 starts (87 in­nings) since the All-Star break for a 1.14 ERA. 
Those numbers add up to Cy 
Young Award."With a little bit 
of luck and some help from my 
teammates, I'd be the No. 1 
choice right now by far," he 
said. 

The problem? His sensational 
pitching has been good enough 
~ ART EXHIBIT t NOVEMBER 1-15 
:rartlclpants muu be ND/SMC uudents .~nl( 2-dlrneoulonal works acc~pted (ma~. size J"xl')
• m ! two entries per participant 
E.lch piece should be matted or mounted on poster bo.11 cl 
:Works must be labeled on the back with title & artist Enu les 1111lst be submitted by...Qa.of!et..Z.S Student Activities Ofnce to the 
Prizes~ 

Two IST Place prizes-$200 each Two 2ND Place prizes _$1-00 each 
IIPONaORm IY: Ali_,.M ASSoCIATION ART DEPARTMENT SMTEMUSEUM 
.....,._...,..!W STUDENT ACll\IITIES OFFICE 
----.~ 

Rijo a possible Cy Young candidate despite Reds losses 
for only a 13-7 record. He leads the league in lack of support. 
The Reds' bullpen has blown leads -and wins -for Rijo four times. In his seven losses, the Reds have scored a total ol 
six runs. It's gotten so frustrat­ing that Rijo has left the ball­park during each of his last two starts rather than share his feelings with reporters. 
"I didn't want to say anything because I love my teammates and I might have said some­thing that would hurt someone. I know they're trying their best for me, but maybe they're try­ing too hard, and that's why they're struggling." 
The last 10 days have been particularly hard on Rijo. He hoped to close the season with a flourish and get the attention of the Cy Young voters. Instead, he's only gotten more heart­break. 
-------~---~­
Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
Revived Buckeye team looks toward beleagured Pitt squad 
By RUSTY MILLER AMociated Press 
CO,LUMBUS. Ohio 
The coaches at both Ohio State and Pittsburgh are expecting improvement Saturday night when their teams meet at Pitt Stadium. 
The difference is, 11th­ranked Ohio State is coming off one of its most impressive victories in recent memory while Pitt is still woozy from a staggering 63-21 setback to Virginia Tech. 
Ohio State never trailed in beating 12th-ranked Washington 21-12 Saturday night. 
"Our attitude in practice this week is that we're going to get better," Ohio State coach John Cooper said Monday at his weekly news conference. "We don't want to be satisfied. One of our team goals that we post for everybody to see is con­stant improvement. We'll cor­rect some of the mistakes we made in the Washington game and we'll try to move for­ward." 
That doesn't bode well for Pittsburgh. Ohio State (2-0) piled up 325 yards of offense while permitting the Huskies only one touchdown. 
Jlitt coach Johnny Majors, in his heralded second stint with the Panthers, was still reeling during his telephone hookup with reporters who cover Ohio State. 
"In my entire coaching ca­reer," be said, "I don't re­member getting whipped any worse than we did by Virginia Tech.... We were beaten every way you can be beaten. We did a de_cent job on kickoff coverage, but we were rn,aten at every position. It could have been a lot worse than that score indicated." 
Worse than 63-21? The Panthers ·surrendered 500 yards rushing and the Hokies averaged 7.6 yards per play. 
The beating came in Majors' first game back at Pitt Stadium since leading the Panthers to the 1976 national champi­onship. 
"We have miles and miles to go to become an adequate much less a good football team," Majors said. 
He added, "We can play bet­ter. Certainly we can executa better." 
Pitt bad opened its season with a come-from-behind 14­10 victory at Southern Mississippi. Cooper saw films of that game, and of the deba­cle Saturday night. 
"They almost look like two different footbE~.ll teams," he said of the Panthers. 
Cooper stressed he was more concerned with his team and how it practiced and played this week. 
"I can't control what Johnny Majors says about his football team," said Cooper, who as a kid back in Powell, Tenn., was a fan of Majors wbell he played at Tennessee. 

Saint Mary's volleyball places third 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team improved its record to 5-5 this weekend by finishing 5-1 at the Oberlin College Tournament and placing third out of 18 teams. 
The Belles' rout began in pool play where they defeated Penn State-Behrend, 15-4, 15-9. They went on to beat Oberlin 15-6, 15-2, followed by Ohio Dominican 15-9, 15-6 and Bethany 15-2, 12-15, 15-6. 
Tri-captain Sara Stronczek feels that the team's improve­ment from last weekend's tour­nament was due in part to the experience gained from an additional week of practice. 
"We got to know each other better and were able to play more as a team," she said. "We were more ready to play and executed much better." 

Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek agreed. 
"Last week we saw potential, this week we played up to it," she said. 
After sweeping their pool, the Belles continued their winning ways by once again defeating Penn State-Behrend 15-5, 15­
12. Their streak, however, came to a halt at the hands of Wittenberg, who defeated the Belles 7-15,19-17,3-15. 
Schroeder-Biek was pleased with her team's performance, noting that the second game against Wittenberg to showed the character of the team. After going down 4-12, the Belles re­fused to give in and handed Wittenberg a 19-17 loss. 
Highlights for the Belles in­cluded 96 assists from Michelle Martino, 54 kills from Stronczek, 56 points from Erica Freithe and 53 digs from Kim Branstetter. 
Although Schroeder-Biek is optimistic about the season after these strong perfor­mances, she realizes that there is still room for improvement. 
She says the team still needs to work on defense and staying on their feet longer. Beyond this, she hopes to further quick­en the offense. 
Stronczek mirrors this real­ization. 
"Of course there is room for improvement," she said. "But we are aware of what needs to be done and we are on the road to the right direction." 
NJD)/SMC JPJRIE~J!JiW SOCliJETir MIEJETliNG JFOJR SJENliOIRS 
PROFESSOR SOENS WILL SPEAK ON THE 
PERSONAL STATEMENT 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 
7:30 PM IN CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
IEIIIIIFIC 
UESDAY 
en TmuuFIC 
VESDAT 
-
SPECIAL
0 
CHEESE 

r 
z<t DOMINATOR 
$6.95
:EN 
EXTRA 
TOPPINGS.•. $1.90EACH
ON 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY

cc.. 3 0 SPECTACUlAR ·. · 
SLICES oder'Mttryour
VZZid [1[]~~ favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 30 inches...That's almost ayard of pizza. --===:::::::..-.--.. 
S,ONIINOG 

Vdld at~ slaos orly. Not vald with TWISTY BREAD & SAUCE .... 1.95 
any -o11or Pncts may vary. CUII<rnlr pays Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce 
IIOlolllaJ< -·CJIIPocalio. Oohorl oroos lnilod Available Upon Request 
lonurtl<llo~ O..mt.onccnyiOSI 
lhon $20.00 0.. -.oro lid pondlzod tor 
ICII-1993 Soull Bond Pizzo C"P.. m. 
COKE or DIET COKE .....65/ can 1.95/2-liter
Lmlld Tlno Ollor 
'"'~·~--......... -.................... ~ 
.. .; ,:. .· .....-..; ....·..·:: ..-. 

TODAY ­
Tuesday, September 14, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

.. 
TODf\'( FOR 51-\0W t>ND TRL. 
"'1\l.l~t:r:.Er 
I 1-\t>.\JE A.N VTIERL'{ 
I '1't:.'-t: 
f..Mt\7..\NG W\-\15\Lt:! L'LL 
I 

"Sorry, ma'am, but your neighbors have reported not seeing your husband in weeks. We just have a few questions, and then you can get back to your canning." 
, 1993 Wa"erson•D1st Umversa\ Press SyndiCate 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Cloud: Comb. 51 Neighbor of form Perugia
1 Harald's 26 Mother--54 First-ratepredecessor 
29 Revere 58 Actress Turner 
5 Electrical unit 
33--inthe 59 Of birth 

10 Annie Oakley, wood &1 Mind 
e.g. 
34 Side dish &2 The Bard's river 
14 --Ridge, 
36 Begot 63 Flower support 
1972 Derby 37---Ha'i, 64 Suffix with cell winner "South Pacific" 65 Stitches15 Companion less island 66 Pool-hall fixture 16 Distinct part 38 Piquant 67 Dried up 
17 Author Ludwig 40 Whole step 18 List of 41 Sheeplike candidates 43 Galileo's 
DOWN 19 Recently birthplace 
1 Pitcher 

deceased 44 Atop 
Hershiser 20 Anagram for 45 Made still 2 C.E.O. 's vehicle leotards 47 Roundup men 3 Craving eagerly 22 Green Bay 49 Iranian money 
41nvalids 

athlete 50 Parisian's 
5 Stronghold 24 Microscopic "Help!" 
& Relieve; pacify 7 Sound from Leo a Formicary
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
dweller 91ntensify 10Comely 
29 Having legal 11 Biblical giant force

12 Developer's interest 30 "Man is ... -­over an abyss":13 Mob or gang Nietzsche
follower 21 Title for Gawain 31 Jose Carreras is ..-"-+-+--+'+'--r--~~+=4 23 Simians one """""::..f.:"+-'~ 25 Small 32 British noble ~~::+:=47 salamanders family 26 Very wealthy 
35 Jacket feature 


c 
person A 
39 Jewish male's 

-=+~=+=B 27 Century plant, M 
skullcap

for one E 
..::::....L=..J..;...L::...L:.:..J 28 Purposeful 42Yalies 
OF INTEREST 

46 Town's prin. 54 Wild guess thoroughfare 
55 Suffix with 48 Cyclotron item 
access 50 In any way 
56 Close by 

51 Dignified "shucks!" 57"Did-and gimble ...":
52 Except 
Carroll

53 White brumal blanket 600ne-time 
DINING HALL 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
... 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, September 14, 1993 
Women's soccer earns No. 7 ranking 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY more attacker Michelle the ball, we should be pretty Sports Writer McCarthy, who leads the team successful," said Petrucelli. in scoring with five goals. "We need to play with inten­
The Irish football team was Senior tri-captain Alison sity," said Lester. "After a big 
not the only 
Lester added, "I think that it's win against a ranked team we 
athletic squad good that we're getting recog­have to stay excited against a 
on campus to nized and getting respect, but team like Indiana." 
make a giant we still have to concentrate on The squad's play this season 
leap in the the upcoming games." has been marred only by occa­
national rank­Notre Dame head coach Chris sional lapses in intensity. The 
ings due to a Petrucelli took caution in react­Irish had letdowns in the open­
strong perfor-ing to the unprecedented rank­ing minutes of both halves in 
ing. "I think it's an inflated last week's contest with Butler
mance last Jen Renola 

weekend. ranking, to be honest," he said. and also displayed some Jet It's feat was matched by the "We're a great team, but l downs against the Badgers. seventh-ranked Notre Dame haven't seen the ·other great Petrucelli addressed this prob­.. women's soccer team, which teams in the country yet." lem. leapt five spots in the standings "We don't put too much stock "We've been sharp the last this week after Friday night's in the rankings," he added, two days of practice," he 3-1 triumph over 16th-ranked "because what's important is continued. "We certainly Wisconsin. what happens on the field." haven't peaked yet, but we're This poll marks the first time The Irish will put their rank­getting better every day." in the Notre Dame women's ing on the line tonight when Freshman goalkeeper Jen soccer program's history that they travel to Bloomington, Renola is expected to start in the Irish have been ranked in Indiana to face the Hoosiers. net for the Irish. She has the top ten. Indiana has a very young allowed only one goal through "It's really exciting because team which boasts a talented two and a half games this sea­that's the first time we've been offense and a suspect defense. son for a 0.4 goals against

ranked that high," said sopho­

Men's soccer travels to Detroit 
By MIKE NORBUT 

Spons Writer  ,....ni'\  
·.·.....  A" .; 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will be  ~  
looking to rebound from a disappointing loss last  
weekend as they travel to play the University of  

Detroit Mercy this afternoon. 

Following today's game, the Irish will return home for a six-game homestand, including games against Michigan State and Evansville later this week. But these contests take a back seat to this match-up in the mind of Irish coach Mike Berticelli. 
Berticelli watched in agony Friday evening as his heavily favored team fell to a fired-up Butler club to drop Notre Dame's season record to 1-2. 
"You can't look past any of these teams," said Berticelli. "To bn honest, I haven't even thought about Michigan State or Evansville. We have to concentrate on Detroit." 
Concentration and consistency will be the keys for the Irish. as they lacked both in Friday's 4-2 loss. The Bulldogs executed to perfection, jump­ing out to an early 2-0 lead and taking advantage of Irish errors to put the game out of reach in the second half. 
Notre Dame was able to stage a comeback late in the first half as goals by junior Tim Oates and sophomore Bill Lanza tied the game at 2-2. 
However, Butler stopped their momentum with a Paul Barton goal 43 seconds into the second half. A breakaway goal by Steve Weiger later in the half secured the victory for the Bulldogs. 
Detroit Mercy will take a 3-1 record into 

•  today's contest,  as they defeated Oakland  The Observer/Kyle Kusek  
University, ranked fourth in the nation among  Junior forward Tim Oates notched a goal in the  
Division II teams. and Siena Heights last week.  Irish's 4-2 loss to Butler.  
The Titans were led by sophomore Dario Rauker  first in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference  
and  freshmen  Vincent  lacozza  and  Tim  with a 1-0 record, while the Irish hold the bottom  
Blackwell, who each turned in a pair of goals.  slot due to their loss to Butler.  
This past weekend. the Titans posted a 3-0 over­ "There's not an easy team in the conference  
time win  over LaSalle before falling to St.  anymore," continued Berticelli.  "Detroit is al­ 
Joseph's 5-1 Sunday afternoon.  This first loss  ways a feisty team.  I expect a tough game."  
came after three-straight shutouts by freshman  The Irish are hoping goalie Bert Bader will  
goalie Kal Kaliszewski, who is now only two  bounce back from Friday's game in which the  
shutouts short of tying the school record in that  junior failed to notch save.  Offensively, Lanza,  
category.  Oates, captain Mike  Palmer, and Antonio  
Notre Dame posts an 8-1 career record against  Capasso will hope to rekindle the flame that gave  
Detroit Mercy, including a 2-1 victory last year at  Notre Dame a victory over No. 20 Rutgers ten  
Alumni Field.  The Titans are currently tied for  days ago.  


The Pennant Chase Dave Justice and the Braves have overtaken 
.. 
the Giants for first place in the NL West: 
see page 17 
Inside SPORTS 

"If we can get our forwards average. 
Saint Mary's soccer tops No. 13 Washington 
ByJENNIFER HABRYCH  Washington.  
Saint Mary's Editor  The Belles were outshot by  

 Denison two to one with  
The Belles got off to a slow  Denison taking 23 shots at the  
start with a 3-0 loss to  goal to Saint Mary's 12. The  
Denison in their season open­ Belles attempted 21 shots and  
er, but came back strong in  held Washington to only seven  
their second game of the  shots in their win.  
weekend with a 3-0 victory  
over Washington University.  "It's nice to start off with  
some tough games and know  
"We played like it was our  that we can do well," said se­ 
first game," said coach Tom  nior forward and tri-captain  
Van Meter about the loss to  Megan Dalsaso.  
No. 5 Denison. "We played  Dalsaso scored two of the  
nervous and missed some easy  goals for Saint Mary's against  
goals."  Washington and fellow captain  
Saint Mary's made no ad­ Mandy Eiler scored the third  
justments for the Sunday  with an assist from senior  
game. but with the nerves  midfielder Molly O'Connell.  
gone they were able to outplay  "It was a good game for ev­ 
and outshoot Washington,  eryone," Dalsaso said. "We  
ranked No. 2 in the region and  have a lot of nonverbal com­ 
No. 13 in the nation.  munication between all of us,  
which is neat that this is hap­ 
"Coming out of the Denison  pening so early in the season."  
game the team was confident  The entire team played well  
with each other," Van Meter  and everyone saw playing time  
said. "They executed better.  in both games, according to  
played better defense and  Van Meter  
played well as a team."  The Belles' freshman also  
Sophomore goalie Anne  played very well and have pro­ 
Kuehne played well for the  vided the team with depth in  
Belles in both games. Kuehne  all areas.  
had 15 saves against Denison  "The freshman came in and  
and six saves against  just played their hearts out,"  
Washington. She also stopped  Eiler said. "They we're really  
two breakaways in the  aggressive. They didn't play  
Washington game when Saint  nervous and scared like fresh­ 
Mary's was up 2-0.  man usually do In the begin­ 
ning."  
"Abne played really well,"  
said Van Meter. "She had two  The Belles who went into the  
great saves and without them  weekend's games ranked No.  
the game would have been a  5 in the Great Lakes region  
lot closer."  are expected to fall after  
While the Belles were out­ Saturday's loss, but Van Meter  
played on Saturday against  said that their performance  
Denison, they executed well in  against Washington will keep  
Sunday's game against  them high in the rankings.  

Wannstedt's Worries 
Trgovac Fires Up Neal Anderson is back 
Irish defensive line coach 
Mike Trgovac inspired but the struggling Bears 
from a hamstring injury the Irish to their upset 

win over Michigan.are 0-2. 
see page 13 see page 16 

------------------------------------' 


