

Thursday, December 9, 1993 • Vol. XXVI No. 64 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Saint Mary's LRPC to revise proposal for 2000 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
Assistant News Editor 
To aid Saint Mary's move­ment into the year 2000, the College's Long Range Planning Committee (LRPC) is presently preparing for the re-submittal of the proposal, "Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change," after the Board of Regents sent it back to them in October for further revisions. 
This proposal will be submit­ted again in April after the LRPC and each of its study groups has established priori­ties and costs in the plan and devotes more attention to the Student Affairs section, accord­ing to LRPC chair, Donald Horning. 
"It wasn't so much a case of the Board rejecting the report, but more that it wanted a more comprehensive proposal," Horning said. "There is no question that it will be approved at the next Board meeting as long they agree with the projected time tables." 
"Currently, the Faculty Assembly and staff are begin­ning to address the suggested revisions and recommendations from the Board," he said. 
"Our intent of this proposal is to look forward," Horning said. "It is conceivable that some of these goals may not be achieved by the 2000. Most of these goals will be met by then although we don't know which ones are the most realistic. It depends on the prioritization. Anything is possible if we have support and the necessary fi­nancial resources." 
The seed for the current "Honoring Tradition, Pioneering Change" document was planted in 1991 by William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College. Since that time, the LPHC has broken down into five primary task forces, including: Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, College Relations, Fiscal Affairs and Administrative Affairs. 
Each of these task forces di­vided into smaller study groups which gathered information on their assigned responsibilities. After much consolidation and combining the LRPC arrived at the final list which was submit­ted to the Board, according to Horning. 
"This document is not static, its more dynamic," Horning said. "We will not be finished with the proposal which will be approved. Revisions will con­tinue with continued involve­ment and implementation rec­ommendations from the Board." 
Some of the goals for the year 2000 stated in the document include: 
• 
Reaffirming commitment to the Saint Mary's Mission. 

• 
Fostering Catholic identity and commitment to women's education. 

• 
Recruiting a more diverse student body in ethnic heritage and economic status and a re­vised financial aid program to recruit and retain these stu­dents. 

• 
Increasing student enroll­ment while maintaining the current number of faculty. 

• 
Reducing graduation re­quirements for students to 120 hours when feasible in the cur­riculum. 

• 
Cultivating the College's tradition in the cultural arts. 

• 
Integrating student life with the academic programs. 


• Providing support for off-
see LRPC I page 4 

The Observer/Alan Smith Freshmen Mike Nolan, Steve Appleton and Kevin Wadzinski take a break from studying in the Hesburgh Library by playing with a hacky sack in the concourse. 
ND faculty tries to incorporate service 
By MICHAEL MARTIN 
News Writer 
The Center for Social Concerns will hold its Annual Faculty Workshop entitled "Linking Social Concerns with the Curriculum" on Friday, Jan. 7. 
The workshop will deal with "ways professors can try to in­corporate service into their teaching research and advis­ing," according to Kathleen Maas Wiegert, faculty liaison for the Center. 
Funding from the National Campus Compact, the Committee on National and Community Service, and the Provost of the University will al­low a limited number of hono­raria to be made available to professors who attend the workshop and agree to inte­grate community awareness with their curricular goals. 
Due to the increased national awareness and the initiatives of the Clinton administration, peo-
Klee celebrates literary, artistic creativity 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
News Writer 
Beatrix Potter, noted illustra-. tor and author of children's books, has remained a promi­nent female figure in the past 100 years because of her liter­ary and artistic creativity, according to recently retired staff member Lee Klee. 
Klee, who also worked for 15 years as a children's librarian, related the life and works of Potter in a lecture held last night at the Saint Mary's li­brary as part of this month's exhibit entitled "Peter Rabbit at 100 (1893-1993)." 
Included among Potter's many accomplishments is her set of 23 storybooks, which she both wrote and illustrated in 13 years and which remain in print in over 20 languages to­day, including Islandic, Afrikaans and Japanese, ac­cording to Klee. 
"Many of the good animal au­thors today don't try to imitate her stories, but they try to pro­duce stories with the immortal quality of the Beatrix Potter characters such as Peter Rabbit," Klee said. 
Potter also designed the first coloring books and stuffed ani­mals of her popular characters which are currently sold world-wide. Her creativity allowed her to be self-support­ing in her early thirties-a sta­tus rarely achieved by women in 1896, said Klee. 
"Beatrix Potter's works are timeless because she insisted that her animals will always be natural and there was nothing artificial about them," Klee said. "The language she used was very unique for a chil­dren's story in that it never sounded condescending and was also interesting and enjoy­able for parents to read as well." 
"Beatrix Potter was not only a prominent author and artist, but was also a respected natu­ralist of the times," Klee added. 
Klee went on to describe Potter as, "an environmentalist way ahead of her time." According to Klee, Potter bought over 4,000 acres of land with the royalties from her stories at Hill Top, her farmhouse at Lancashire in the English Lake District, which she was committed to main­taining in· 1918 after the deaths of only brother and father three years before. 
Prior to her own death in 1943, Potter deeded her land to the National Trust, and it, along with her farmhouse, has remained well-preserved, said Klee. 
The steady productivity for which her stories had previ­ously been known, slowed dra­matically after she married William Heelis. She found her­self dedicated to her new hus­band and her childhood love of science, studying and sketch­ing animals that surrounded her on her farm. 
The Potter display includes a number of reproductions of her drawings and paintings as well as figures and other memora­bilia based on her books. It also features unusual wood carvings of Potter's characters made by local artist AI Golichowski. 
Potter will be featured throughout December at the Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library as part of the Sesquicentennial Celebration honoring female figures in his­tory. 
pie are thinking about their relations with their fellow hu­man beings now more than ever, said Wiegert. 
"Service is larger than the di­rect physical act of helping someone, like feeding the poor and clothing the naked," she added. "Service is also our ad­dressing the multiplicity of needs in the community in ways that use our expertise." 
A class in the business school last year is an example of this usage of expertise. The class worked with the Center for the Homeless to assess the possi­bility of an efficient system in which people who use the Center were given a chance to get back on their feet by work­ing there. The combined ef­forts of the class and the Center deemed the plan unfeasible and resources were diverted to areas that would benefit the people more, according to Wiegert. 
The scope of this program is not limited to any one field, though. "Any discipline can benefit from this workshop," said Wiegert. 
This social awareness is not meant to change the educa­tional goals of a class, she said. Rather, one should "dream of ways service can be incorpo­rated (into the curriculum) to reach educational goals in an educational way." 
The workshop will be divided into two parts. The morning session will have a structural focus, emphasizing the theory and practice of linking these objectives. 
The afternoon session will feature both faculty members that have incorporated social concerns into their curricula and also representatives of a number of agencies that pro­vide services to the community and that encourage student participation. 
For more information contact Kathleen Maas Wiegert at 631­5142. 
Faculty discusses Annual Compensation Report 
By DAVID CLAIRMONT 
News Writer 
The Faculty Senate Benefits Committee distributed the Annual Notre Dame Faculty 
FACULTY SENATE 
Compensation Report for the 1992-93 academic year to the senate for initial discussion which highlighted yesterday evening's meeting. 
Benefits Committee Chairman Professor John Affleck-Graves responded to questions by sen-· ators regarding this proposal. He commented that the Benefits Committee's work regarding Notre Dame faculty salary levels was only an esti­mate and that the actual salary levels are not currently autho­rized for release by the Office of the Provost. 
Affleck-Graves and Professor Daniel Simon drafted the pro­posal. According to Senate Chairman Professor Richard Sheehan, the report will be de­bated further and will probably be called to a vote during the 
senate's next meeting in January. 
The senate's Student Affairs Committee, chaired by Professor James Collins, is scheduled to meet with the stu­dent representatives for "The Guide" to discuss increased faculty support for the project. 
The Academic Affairs Committee, chaired by Father David Burrell, is planning to review questionnaires sent out earlier this year to University departments regarding the po­sition of such departments on the Catholic nature of the University as outlined in the Colloquy. 
The Ad Hoc Committee on the Faculty Senate Self Study dis­cussed the questionnaire it dis­tributed to the senators. The questionnaire's intent, accord­ing to Committee Chair Professor James Collins, is to rate the merits and limitations of the senate's recent activity. A suggestion was made that the senate consider bringing in outside evaluators to aid in the committee's work. 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, December 9, I 993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 
No Illore cyntctsfll tn• this space 
I find it an extreme shame that the Inside Column space has evolved into the mental playpen for a bunch of crying babies. Most of the masterpieces which appear in this con­spicuous space do nothing but insult, insinuate, and Brian Seiler ineite. Hareiy does anyone say anything positive 

Viewpoint Copy about anything. Ediotr I find this profoundly -------­disheartening, knowing full well how easy it is to pen biting words of sarcastic complaint. All too of'ten the Inside Column is just a cliched revamping of age-old student complaints. With an idealistic heart I hope that this situa­tion can be remedied. and as a gesture of good­will, I would like to start off the new era with a positive column. But before I start it, I would like to say a few words ... 
First, does it not stink about that Cavanaugh thing? I mean, the nerve of that backward administration! Next thing you know they will be tossing their mothers out in the street. Its a good thing they didn't try Zahm or Dillon or the dome might be burned down again for the first time in about a hundred years! 
Moving along, what's up with those unbeliev­able bookstore prices? That place must be run by retired bookies from Las Vegas. Humor has it that next year there will be a cover charge at Scammes (I mean Hammes), which is just cause in my mind for renaming the place the "Crookstore.". 
After your ordeal at the bookstore you might want a decent meal, right? So you head to the dining hall expecting something edible. Guess again, buddy. The dining halls serve crap that evm1 a vulture would turn its nose up at. 
And how about that guy who said we should have burned down the goal posts and fornicated with sheep and goats after beating Florida Statn'? Talk about Mr. Negative. lley buddy, we had a good time after the game, OK? And besides, everybody knows that goal posts aren't llammabhL 
I don't think the administration has to worry about us fornicating anyways. Parietals take care of that. And sheep and goats just hate twenty-four hour lunges anways. 
And the snowball rules'? Do I understand correctly'? We cannot throw snowballs? Not even lluffy ones'? What a gyp. My nine-year-old brother can come to ND and throw a snowball at me. but if I throw one back I suppose I get stmt to Siberia or something. Next thing you know they will outlaw Christmas lights in dorm rooms or ... Oops, maybe I should shut up! 
I guess I was being kind of negative about things. See, I inadvertantly fell into the very trap which I have pledged to avoid. It's just so easy to be negative! I think that now, especially around Christmas, we should all make an effort to stop crying like a bunch of babies. 
Unless you have a truly serious problem like hemorrhoids or halitosis of the armpit, please restrain yourself from being a "Mr. Negative." We've got too many of them already. 
Try to look on the bright side of things. they send you to Siberia, you will learn to make one hell of a mean snowball. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News Production Corrine Doran Susan Marx Emily llagt' Jackie Moser 
Sports Jonarhan Jensen Accent 
Matt Carbone Viewpoint Allison Ebel Brian Seiler Kenya Johnson Lab Tech Graphics 
T.J. Harris Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-40110) is puhli>hcd 1-.!onday duough Friday l"XCC.'JH Juring l'Xam and v;tc.Hion pc:rioJs. The Ohserver is a mcmhcr of 1hc Associau:d Press. All n..·produnion rights are rcservt·J. 
Peace turns into confrontations as soldiers deployed in Israel 
JERUSALEM has been deploying troop reinforcements . Promising to "fight terror with all our Israel unrest Arab and Jewish extremists are trying to strength," Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin derail the accord through killings and revealed a significant troop buildup in Since the signing of the agreement other violence. 
between Israel and the PLO, Many
the occupied territories Wednesday Palestinians and Israelis have been More than 50 Palestinians and Israelis despite next week's deadline for starting killed as extremists on both sides have been killed in the escalating vio­withdrawal. wage an increasingly violent lence since the autonomy accord was 
A Jewish settler was shot in Bethlehem campaign to undo the accord. signed Sept. 13. 
and several demonstrations in LEBANON . ' . In a rare announcement, .~abin said Jerusalem turned violent amid increas-/''"~'/7:.'\.~ GQI;m :that as of Wednesday 120 milttary com­ing signs Israel may postpone the· troop Mediterranean~~. 1~~~Heights; panics were in the territories, far above withdrawal scheduled to begin Monday Sea ) J::..\-\1 : n?rmal. He gave no ex.act !lumber, but under the Israel-PLO peace accord. 1 \~.~y,SYRIAI wtth about 150-200 soldters m a company 
U.S. Secretary of State Warren / _ _ p > ·· the total would be roughly 18,000 to 
1
Christopher, acknowledging that the : ' •··.·· ···--...._ 1 
~··· · 24 000 startup deadline is in jeopardy, said in / /~'--·< ::~~ ~. I~raei generally does not publicize troop Cairo that Washington would not object . j 1.~ .•• JORDAN figures for the territories, but it was to a short delay. Tel Av1v;e ·~.· understood that the buildup was signifi­
r··.·.· . 

Palestinians had asked the United I 0:-Jencho cant States to pressure Israel on implementa-Jerusale~..J~~ ~'tDead Sea "We will fight terror with all our tion, but Christopher's statement effec-/.; H b '',nJ~,' strength," Habin told an annual gathering tively backed the Israelis' go-slow /// e K~--1 of Israeli newspaper editors. "But at the approach. . ~ ) · -· l·· same time, we know that any chance for 
And even though PLO chairman Vasser ····· KISRAEL \. a solution lies in negotiating implementa-Arafat insisted the Dec. 13 start for the \ 1 tion (of the accord)." Israeli pullout is a "holy date" for G:~a\ / Habin has said a short delay in imple-Palestinians, his negotiators conceded aS np \ menting the lsrael-PLO pact might be little extra time might be necessary. ~! needed to iron out security arrangements 
"I prefer a good agreement which can \, but that any substantial change would survive without any future problems and \ hand the extremists a victory. is reached two weeks later, rather than .EGYPT \ 1 "We understand the importance of this an agreement which may not survive \\ \ ARABIIV · j timetable, of not prolonging this process and which will create misunderstand-'\ '·~-,,/\/ j too much," said Yossi Beilin, Israeli's ings," said Ziyad Abu Ziyad, a 25mites '\ .,.., t ·-,J(rab18n I deputy foreign minister. "But if it takes Palestinian negotiator. ~ /, · ~-'""' · Sea Ianother week I don't think it is the end of 
Officials signaled it may take another APic~·;i·F;~ the world." summit between Rabin and Arafat next An Israeli official who demanded week to smooth the way for activating the peace agree-anonymity also indicated a compromise move by Israel, ment. saying that the army was mapping out a program to pub-
Under the accord, Israel is to start withdrawing its licize symbolic acts of withdrawal Monday if Habin gave forces Monday from the Gaza Strip and Jericho on the the go-ahead. West Bank, with full autonomy due by April. The army has already begun to dismantle some bases 
But with violence increasing in the territories, Israel and set up a border with the Gaza Strip. 
Victories boost Clinton 'can do' image Abductions, killings leave youngsters terrified 
WASHINGTON BHIDGETON, Mo. 
Hecent victories for the White House 
A week after 10-year-old Cassidy "Cassie" Senter van­have reversed the publie's view of ished, leaving behind the wailing personal alarm she was whether President Clinton can get carrying, children in St. Louis' northwestern suburbs things done, according to a new poll have become terrified. Her disappearance came a week that also shows a string of good eco­after the abduction and killing of 9-year-old Angie Marie nomic news hasn't convinced most Housman. In addition, the kidnapping and slaying of 12­Americans the recovery is for real. year-old Polly Klaas in California has stirred fear. Sixty-three percent of respondents in Tuesday night, a 10-year-old girl in the St. Louis County the new survey said Clinton was able to community of Fenton told police a man tried to lure her get things done in Washington, up dra­into his car. She was able to escape. Although there is matically from 36 percent who thought so in August. no evidence linking the St. Louis cases, poliee admit That finding was one of several showing improvements they're worried that Cassidy was abducted by the same in Clinton's public standing as his first year in ofl'ice person or persons who killed Angie. draws to a close. 
Studies cast doubt on cooling suggestions University investigates homeless campaign 
NEWYOHK 

COLUMBUS New research casts doubt on a highly publicized analy­
Ohio State University will investigate whether three sis that suggested future global warming might lead to graduate students should be disciplined for ereating a abrupt, disruptive spells of cold in eountries bordering phony campaign to give guns to the homeless. The pun­the North Atlantic Ocean. The original report was based ishments could range from a letter of reprimand to dis­on analysis of Greenland ice from between 135,000 years missal from the university, Lenora Barnes-Wright, direc­ago and 115,000 years ago, a period when the global tor of the office of Community Development and Judicial average temperature was about four degrees higher than Affairs, said Wednesday. She said Paul Badger, Douglas now. The ice seemed to reveal repeated abrupt coolings, Lloyd and Eric Zimmerman would be notified of the with average temperatures plunging by as much as 25 investigation by mail. They have seven days to respond. degrees within one or two decades. Such rapid shifts The three art department students established a phone might disrupt agriculture and other economic sectors if number and mailing address for a fictitious group. they recurred, study co-author David Peel said. 
NATIONAL Weather
INDIANA Weather 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 9.
Thursday, Dec. 9 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

© 
FRONTS: 

-.---r ...&....A... ............. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Cl1993 Accu-Weather, Inc Pressure 
H L a ESJ lTil 0 ~ 81l {) ~--) u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY.' CLOUDY 
V1a Associated Press 

q,~,~qe 8 i) ~ a 
Showors T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vta Associated Press GraphicsNet <01993 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
H L Jerusalem 59 43 Paris 54 45 
Athens 57 48 London 54 39 Philadelphia 53 42 Atlanta 59 41 Los Angeles 69 51 Rome 55 41 Boston 51 39 Madrid 54 39 Seattle 46 41 Chicago 38 29 Minneapolis 29 22 Seoul 46 32 Cleveland 39 31 Moscow 32 32 Toronto 38 2~ Dallas 65 46 New York 50 44 
Washington, D.C. 51 37 

----~-~-~ ~~ ~-~----. 
----·---------~·-~-­
page 3 

Thursday, December 9, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Gunman kills 4, wounds 19 in crowded commuter train terror 
By FARRELL KRAMER 
Associated Press 
GARDEN CITY, N.Y. 

The gunman accused of open­ing fire on a rush-hour com­muter train was driven by racial hatred and waited until the train left New York City to avoid embarrassing Mayor David Dinkins, authorities said today. 
The black suspect, accused of killing four passengers and wounding 19 others during the three-minute spree, carried notes expressing his hatred for whites, Asians and "Uncle Tom Negroes," said Nassau County Police Commissioner Donald Kane. 
The four pages of notes men­tion New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, rich black attorneys, "so-called civil rights leaders" and a number of institutions, including the workers' com­pensation office, Kane said. 
Passengers ran screaming for the exits as the stony-faced man wielding a semiautomatic 9 mm pistol walked down the aisle of the packed commuter train Tuesday evening, shooting at random and pausing only to reload. 
Kane said he thought all the victims were white or Asian. 
Three passengers tackled the 
gunman as he tried to reload 
after the train came to a stop in 
the suburban Long Island town 
of Garden City. One of his cap­
tors quoted the man as saying, 
"I've done a bad thing," the 
Daily News reported. 
The gunman was carrying a 
bag with another 100 rounds, 
Kane said. He reloaded at least 
once; his gun held 16 bullets, 
Kane said. 
The suspect, Colin Ferguson, 
35, of the New York City bor­
ough of Brooklyn, is a native of 
Jamaica. He is single, unem­
ployed and previously attended 
Adelphi University on Long 
Shots on tr~I,n:,~,5Tliis is real life, ~yerybody' 
••. 

n·a.Jread; 1~t 
5:33 to Hicksville crn•sse1f1 
city ~ne, the final, q.. (n.l~~,i~PJ the daily'fligh~ ,, York's cares. · 
The pas~f3ngers car shpuldn~thave traill'& arri'val in 
.meant the 
Island. He has no criminal record, police said. 
Ferguson appeared in court on four counts of murder today and was ordered held without bail. He stood quietly, hands cuffed behind him, during the hearing in Nassau County Court in Hempstead. 
Authorities said he boarded the train in the borough of Queens. The train left New 
.. . 
York's Penn Station at 5:33 p.m. 
Ferguson explained "New York City was spared because of my respect for Mayor David Dinkins," Kane said. Dinkins, New York's first black mayor, was defeated in November by Republican Rudolph Giuliani. 
Eighty to 90 passengers were in the third car as the train ap­proached the Garden City sta­
., "<-:::~··>-·· . ::;;--:::.:•• 

PAitP.r'~"'n hegan'couriting ..·.. it an automatic or ......~,. ··''" or 16shots, 
tion, 18 miles from New York City. 
One passenger said the gun­man had spilled bullets into his lap and calmly loaded his gun. 
Then the gunman opened fire, passengers said. 
"After the second look, I ducked down in my seat, for real, knowing this man was going to kill people indiscrimi­nately," said Carl Petersen, 48, of Garden City. 
Passengers said the man fired repeatedly, then reloaded and fired again. 
Petersen worked his way to the vestibule, where passengers normally wait to get off. He and several others were hoping to escape when the doors opened, but the gunman fired several shots at the waiting passengers. 
"We were a little reluctant to run out because we didn't know if we were going to be shot exit­ing," Petersen said. 
Kevin Blum of Garden City said the gunman ran out of bul­lets, then stood in the train aisle with a blank look on his face. That's when Blum and two other passengers tackled him. 
"It looked like a good time," the 42-year-old Wall Street businessman told the New York Post. "He was standing in the aisle with the gun in his hand and as we came toward him, the gun dropped. 
"He had a blank look, like he knew he had done something wrong." 
Ed Marinello, 35, of Garden City South, who sat in the sixth car, watched as "15 or 20 peo­ple started running back," he said. "Their faces were scared." 
He caught a glimpse of the casually dressed gunman as po­lice led him away. "He just looked like he was in outer space at the time -emotion­less, void," Marinello said. 
About 250,000 passengers, 
mainly commuters, ride Long 
Island Rail Road trains daily. 
The shooting caused delays of 
up to two hours. Trains ran on 
or close to schedule this morn­
ing. 
Authorities identified three of 
the dead today as James 
Gorycki, 51, of Mineola; 
Theresa Magtoto, 30, of 
Westbury; and Dennis 
McCarthy, 52, of Mineola. 
In Los Angeles, Metrolink of­
ficials announced that uni­
formed officers would be placed 
aboard all 61 of their commuter 
trains as a result of the shoot­
ing. The officers would remain 
on the trains indefinitely, offi­
cials said. 
"It's a reshuffling of our per­sonnel to provide an assurance to our passengers that we do not anticipate that this type of incident to occur," said Metrolink spokesman Peter Hidalgo. 

Notice to all University of Notre Dame Faculty, Staff and Employees 


is pleased to announce its outpatient offices have affiliated with CIGNA MANAGED CARE AND PPO PROVIDER NETWORKS 
Our offices offer: 
• 
easy registration 

•convenient, 
free parking 

• 
rapid turnaround of reports to your physician 


•Computed 
Tomography (CT Scans) • Mammography 

• 
Diagnostic Imaging Services • Ultrasound 


}EFFERSON MEDICAL ARTS BUILDING MEMORIAL MEDICAL PLAZA 919 East Jefferson Blvd. 707 North Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 46617 South Bend, Indiana 46601 (219) 288-4486 (219) 232-1491 
BREAST IMAGING AND INFORMATION CENTER  MEMORIAL SKYWAY PLAZA  
919 East Jefferson Blvd.  610 North Michigan Street  
South Bend, Indiana 46617  South Bend, Indiana 46601  
( 219) 288-4486  (219) 232-5191  

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, December 9, 1993 
Supreme Court scrutinizes NASA's Hubble Space Telescope's abortion clinic blockades sky-high repairs approach completion 
By RICHARD CARELLI 

Associated Pre;; 
WASHINGTON 

Protesters who oppose abor­tion "by any means necessary, including terrorism," should feel the sting or being sued un­der a federal anti-racketeering law, abortion rights advocates told the Supreme Court yester­day. 
Lawyers for the National Organization for Women and the Clinton administration ar­gued that the law applies when peaceful political protest esca­lates to violence. 
But a lawyer representing anti-abortion groups and their leaders said Congress never intended the law to be used in a way that threatens freedom of speech. 
Lower courts threw out a na­tionwide class-action lawsuit that invoked the anti-racketeer­ing law. NOW and the adminis­tration are asking the justices to reinstate the lawsuit. 
Fay Clayton, a Chicago lawyer representing NOW, called the lawsuit's defendants -Operation Rescue, the Pro­Life Action League and others -members of "a nationwide campaign of terror" engaged in "forcible, violent conduct" or "any means necessary" to stop abortions. 
Justice Department lawyer Miguel Estrada said the lower courts' rulings threaten to "really cripple" government efforts to get at terrorists and their conspiracy leaders. 
But Notre Dame University law professor Hobert Blakey, representing the anti-abortion groups, argued that applying the anti-racketeering law he helped write would be extend­ing it far beyond its intended purpose -to battle mobsters. 
At the center of the court case is the federal Haeketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or HICO. 
Enacted in 1970, the HICO law was aimed at organized crime but increasingly is used in lawsuits involving just about any business dispute. In a se­ries of rulings, the Supreme Court consistently has refused to narrow how the broadly worded law is applied. 
The law bans "any person employed or associated with 
LRPC 
continued from page 1 
campus students. 
• 
Preparing proposals for public service projects to enable eurrent students and graduates to repay student loans. 

• 
Improving classrooms, fac­ulty ollices, and administrative ollke space. 

• 
Undertaking a technology program to meet the needs of students, faculty and staff. 

• 
Developing a master earn­pus plan to determine future needs regarding construction of new buildings and modifica­tions on old ones. 

• 
Increasing endowment to support the operating budget. 


Look for the eight page Sports Extra in tomorrow's Observer! 

any enterprise in .. .interstate or foreign commerce ...to par­ticipate in a pattern of rack­eteering activity." 
Those successfully sued un­der HICO's civil provisions must pay triple damages. 
Under RICO, a pattern of racketeering amounts to two or more "predicate acts" from a long list of underlying crimes, including extortion. NOW's lawsuit alleged that a coalition of anti-abortion groups en­gaged in extortion by use of ha­rassment, assault, destruction of property and other illegal acts. 
The Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that RICO "requires either an economically motivated enter­prise or economically motivated predicate acts." The appeals court said the anti-abortion groups had no such motivation. 
Two radically differing views of anti-abortion protesters have emerged from the closely watched case. 
Anti-abortion leaders such as Randall Terry of Operation Hescue and Joseph Scheidler of the Pro-Life Action League say they are civil rights activists, not terrorists. They distance themselves from those re­sponsible for killing Dr. David Gunn outside a Pensacola, Fla., abortion clinic this year and other violent acts. 
But Patricia Ireland, NOW's president, said the case "is not about peaceful protesters who pray on the sidewalks" but about "bricks through the win­dows and bombs in the night." 
Congress is expected to pass a law soon giving new federal protection to abortion clinics, their employees and patients. But the law, already approved in slightly different versions by the House and Senate, would not allow lawsuits against al­leged national conspiracies and their leaders. 
A Supreme Court decision is expected by July. The case is NOW vs. Scheidler, 92-780. 
Arrive alive... 

By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 

SPACE CENTEH, Houston 
With its new eyeglasses in­stalled, the Hubble Space Telescope's repairs were nearly complete Wednesday and spacewalker Jeffrey Hoffman exulted: "We're almost home free." 
Only a few tasks remained for the fifth and final spacewalk overnight -the third for the team of Hoffman and Story Musgrave. 
Happy NASA managers planned to mark the end of the sky-high repair effort with two events as symbolic as they were vital: raising the teles~pe's orbit slightly and spreading its new solar wings. 
'We've got basically a new telescope up there," said Hoffman, an astronomer. 
"It's going to be real exciting for the astronomical community and for the whole world to see what Hubble really can do with a good set of eyeballs." 
Hoffman and Musgrave were to install an electronics unit for one of the solar panels put in place Monday and another elec­tronics box. 
The job was time-consuming because of the difficulty of mak­ing electrical connections with clunky space-gloved hands. 
The astronauts also had an unforeseen task, installing a cover, handmade inside the Endeavour cabin from an insu­lated blanket, for a magne­tometer, which helps guide the telescope by measuring Earth's magnetic field. 
Two sides of the magnetome­ter enclosure, high on the tele­scope, came off in Hoffman's hands when he worked with it earlier. 
Toward the end of their work in the cargo bay, a ground com­mand was to unfurl the solar panels installed earlier in the week. 
The wings, as wide as the telescope is tall, are made of huge sheets of fiberglass-rein­forced Teflon held in place by metal struts. 
They gather energy from the sun and channel it to batteries that power the telescope's in­struments. 
Shuttle commander Hichard Covey had been so stingy in his use of shuttle fuel that enough was left to carry the telescope to an orbit four miles higher ­369 miles. 
The Hubble, which is to be re­leased from the Endeavour early Friday, has no propulsive power of its own. The boost is desirable because its altitude degrades over time. 
The hard part of the mission was over early Wednesday when astronauts Kathryn Thornton and Tom Akers re­moved a refrigerator-size box containing a light meter and replaced it with one containing 10 small mirrors. 
Akers' two excursions into the cargo bay gave him the all-time 
U.S. spacewalk record of 29 hours, 40 minutes. 
That eclipsed the record of 24 hours, 12 minutes established more than two decades ago during the Gemini and Apollo programs by Eugene Cernan. 
Installation of the mirror package was the final step, at least for the crew of the 
Take the keys. 
Endeavour, toward correcting Hubble's fuzzy vision. 
Fine-tuning the optical sys­tems and getting the telescope back to work, is the task of engineers on the ground. 
"Hubble's just had eye surgery," said David Leckrone, Hubble's senior project scien­tist. 
"We think it was successful but we're not going to know for sure until we're able to take the bandages off seven-eight-nine weeks from now." 
The optical fixes were instal­lation of a new wide-field planetary camera with built-in corrections for Hubble's mis­ground main mirrors, and Costar, a contraption that chan­nels the light stream to three other astronomy instruments with precisely ground and aimed mirrors. 
"With Costar and the wide­field planetary camera both op­tically corrected and function­ing, we will have a complete and capable observatory with all the tools that astronomers and astrophysicists need to ply their trade and go after the big questions about the universe," Leckrone said. 
"It is extremely difficult to keep from getting excited right now," he said. "But I gotta try." 

... Don't drink and drive! 




Call a cab. Take a stand. Friends don't let friends drive drunk! 
lo~J-e, St. !II(/(~ St. Jel(l(t; 
St. tfatt 
·& St. ;ffaareel( 

$9.99 sn.99 



--~ -~-­
Thursday, December 9, 1993 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Clinton signs NAFTA, urges GATT 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton signed leg­islation Wednesday creating the world's largest free-trade zone and used the ceremony to prod other nations to "seize the moment and close the deal" on liberalized global trading rules. 
With considerable fanfare and eight pens, Clinton signed the North American Free Trade Agreement, which links the United States, Canada and Mexico into a single market. 
"This whole issue turned out to be a defining moment for our nation," Clinton told an audi­ence of supporters, inducting many of the lawmakers who helped him win uphill passage of the measure. 
And, in a fence-mending ges­ture toward organized labor, which fought the trade agree­ment fiercely, Clinton vowed to send to Congress early next year legislation "to create the world's best worker training and retraining system." 
"We owe it to the business community as well as to the working men and women of this country," he said. 
Labor and other critics, in­cluding Texas billionaire Ross Perot, argued that the pact would lure many U.S. compa­nies into relocating in Mexico, where workers are paid lower wages. 
Clinton conceded Wednesday that such concerns reflected "legitimate fear" by U.S. work­ers. Even so, he predicted that the trade agreement would re­sult in a net gain of U.S. jobs, up to 200,000 new ones by 1995. 
The trade agreement already has been ratified by Canada and Mexico. 
It takes effect Jan. 1 and over 
the next 15 years eliminates 
tariffs and other trade barriers. 
It creates the world's largest 
and richest trading bloc, cover­ing 360 million people and stretching from the tropics to the Arctic. 
The United States has had a separate free-trade agreement with Canada since 1989. 
Clinton used the ceremony ­held in a government audito­rium because too many people were invited to fit into a room in the White House -to call for completing 116-nation trade talks in Geneva. 
Expressing frustration with continuing snags, Clinton said: "We are prepared to make our contributions to the success of this negotiation. But we insist that other nations do their part as well. We must not squander this opportunity. I call on all the nations of the world to seize this moment and close the deal on a strong GATT agreement within the next week." 
"I say to everyone, even to 
our negotiators: Don't rest, 
don't sleep, close the deal," he 
added. 
A PALATABLE SELECTION OF CONTROVERSIAL MUSIC AND MEXICAN FOOD 

The Biggest Value North of the Border 
BANDITO'S BURRITOS & CLUB 23 HAVE TEAMED UP TO BRING YOU GREAT FOOD AND GREAT ENTERTAINMENT AT ONE CONVENIENT LOCATION THE CORNER OF NOTRE DAME AVE. AND SOUTH BEND AVE. JUST BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS OR YOUR ABODE DELIVERY AVAILABLE 234-4015 


Int~r~~t~~ ID rnnnin[f~r ~tn~~nt [~v~r1~nt ~r da~~ ~m~~~ 

--~~~~te~~-­
Film subsidies and rice imports threaten GATT 
By CLARE NULLIS 
Associated Press 
GENEVA  
South  Korea  balked  at  
importing  rice  and  the  
Americans  and  Europeans  

remained deadlocked over film subsidies Wednesday, raising further obstacles to completing a global trade accord by a Dec. 15 deadline. 
Negotiators at the Geneva headquarters of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade spent the day thrashing out deals for the final 116-na­tion accord, the most ambitious free-trade package ever under­taken. 
Some discussed how to ex­tend the terms of a U.S.­European farm subsidies pact to other countries. Other ne­gotiators bargained on an array of cuts in thousands of import tariffs on products ranging from electronics to apples. 
South Korea's Agriculture Minister Huh Shin Haeng said his country couldn't accept rice imports. 
"We cannot do it," at least not now, Huh told reporters. 
South Korean farmers have staged violent protests against lifting a ban on rice imports. However, Japan is expected to announce Friday that it will end its longtime ban. leaving South Korea with little choice but to cave into U.S.-led pres­sure and follow suit. 
Dec. 15 is the last day President Clinton can notify Congress of a proposed trade accord under so-called "fast track" rules barring lawmak­ers from attaching amend­ments that could kill the ac­cord. 
The trade deal is expected to pump more than $200 billion annually into the sluggish world economy. 
The United States and the 12­nation European Community struck a compromise deal Tuesday to cut farm subsidies and import duties on manufac­tured goods. clearing the way for the wider accord. 
French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur said Wednesday that the agriculture issue -which snarled the talks for months -was no longer an obstacle. France led the fight over preserving the farm sub­sidies. 
But the trade giants remain deadlocked over European sub­sidies to aircraft makers and to the film industry -the two biggest U.S. export earners. 
French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe stressed that "nothing is agreed until every­thing is agreed." 
France wants to keep subsi­
dies to its film industry and 
maintain quotas on non-EC 
films, measures it says are 
needed to protect filmmakers 
from a Hollywood onslaught. 
Paris also has rejected U.S. 
demands for a share of box-of­
fice levies on U.S. films, which 
dominate the French and 
European markets. Paris uses 
the money to subsidize French 
filmmaking. 
"I am relatively optimistic, 
but I have many fears over the 
audio-visual sector," EC 
Commission president Jacques 
Delors told reporters. 

--~~~~~e~~-­
Thursday at C:llpm Sarin Roam LaFarl'.!; 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, December 9, 1993 
Morale drops, tensions rise in Algeria Russian candidates face 
By ELAINE GANLEY one seems to know the way out to Prime Minister Redha Malek. Associated Press of the crisis sparked in January "The one thing we will not al­
unfamiliar campaign trail 
1992 when the nation's first low is let the country be aban­
ALGIEHS, Algeria 
Morale is low, nerves are on edge. And no end is in sight to the guerrilla war by Islamic ex­tremists that has pushed Algeria to the brink of chaos. 
People count the friends and relatives who have fled, disap­p,mred or been killed. 
Two years ago, robed funda­mentalists paraded around the capital like conquerors after winning the first round of par­liamentary elections. Today, they're in jail, in hiding or join­ing the "jihad," an increasingly nasty holy war now said to fea­ture mutilations and other scare tactics to bolster its ranks. 
Allegations of fundamentalist brutality arn countered by equally grim reports of torture and abductions by government sncurity forces. 
Algeria is becoming a Kafkaesque world of confusion and loss, where nearly every­one is afraid. 
It is still a mystery who will take power Jan. 1, when the military-backed ruling council is scheduled to step down. No free parliamentary elections were canceled to thwart an im­pending victory by the Islamic Salvation Front, the main fun­damentalist party. 
Oiplomats cautiously raise the possibility that an Islamic state could arise from the chaos or that the bloodletting could de­generate into civil war. 
"Those taken by force will re­turn by force," reads graffiti in the dirt-poor fundamentalist bastion of Glaciere, part of a network of Algiers suburbs that produces recruits for the rebel­lion. 
Estimates of the dead-civil­ians, security forces and Islamic radicals -range from more than 2,000 to 4,500 in 22 months of violence. 
The warriors are making good on their threat to kill for­eigners remaining in Algeria af­ter a Nov. 31 deadline. Four have died since then; 11 since late September. 
There is growing speculation the army could take control in January: 
"We are in a world of all pos­sibilities," said an official close doned to a sort of chaos." 
The army's presence has been visible since the elections were canceled. Roadblocks and jeeps carrying masked soldiers, their rifles bristling from win­dows, are now part of the busy street scene. Bouse-to-house searches and bus checks are part of daily life. 
Even the Chrea ski resort, a getaway for Algerians trying to escape crowded housing, has been billed a danger zone. 
"American action movies are small-time cinema compared to this," said a police officer at a station near the Casbah, whose winding alleys and tomblike homes have sheltered insur­gents. 
J>olice officers, judges, jour­nalists and foreigners, all con­sidered potential targets, have transformed their lifestyles in a cat-and-mouse game with an invisible enemy. 
For some, the real culprit is a vague mafia of power brokers guarding interests amassed in 30 years of corrupt leadership by the former ruling party, the National Liberation Front. 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associared Press 

MOSCOW "Boris Anatolyevich, my building has no heat." "Boris Anatolyevich, we have power outages night and day." "Boris Anatolyevich, my mother is 85 and has to sit by 
the  stove  all  day  to  keep  
warm."  
Boris  Anatolyevich  

Pashintsev, city council candi­date, listened solemnly to the grievances of the dozen, elderly people who showed up at his campaign appearance in a dim community hall. 
There were no speeches, no handshakes, no banners or bal­loons. An aide took down each supplicant's phone. number, and Pashintsev said, "Thank you for coming, we'll get back to you." 
Across Russia, candidates such as Pashintsev are not so much hitting the campaign trail as trying to find it. 
The country's first multiparty elections loom Sunday, and novice candidates from the fed-era! to the local level are reaching out any way they can to a confused and apathetic public. 
Pashintsev, a city administra­tor, is running without a party -"an independent, like Perot," as one aide put it. 
But even the biggest election blocs with some money and experience are improvising in a country where there is little in the way of reliable demograph­ics or previous election results. 
Instead, there are 94,000 polling stations over 11 times zones, and travel conditions that range from icy to snowy. Of the 107 million eligible vot­ers, 55 percent are expected to vote -the same as turned out for the last U.S. presidential election. 
"Running a campaign is never an exact science, but they're starting from ground zero here," said Josh Freeman of the National Democratic Institute, a Washington, D.C., group that has been working in Russia for four years to help lay foundations for a multiparty system. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS An Invitation ... Com~Jl}ID.ties ~,be a part of :he Ch,tHe~<'l(lt.~ of r\dL,It Cfv·isti£1.'1ifyCommunities ND! Sign up today-then go study! Sign--up sheets and more information available Campus Ministry invites you to join at either Campus Ministry office your friends and fellow students. 103 Hesburgh Library WHAT: In a commitment to meet with other 631--7800students for prayer, discussion, and reflection on scripture. A chance for ongoing conversation on the 122 Badin Hall challenges of being an adult Christian. 631..5242 WHEN! Begins with a Rally Day on Saturday, WEEKEND PRESIDERS January 15,1994 from 11:00 a.m. until 4:00p.m. for all AT SACRED HEART BASILICA participants. Continues through the spring semester in Sat. December 11 5:00p.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. small group meetings of about 90 minutes each. Groups Sun. December 12 10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. that so desire can continue to meet in the following semesters. 11:45 a.m. Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Robert Dowd, C.S.C., WHO: Undergraduate students in groups of 8 ,10, Homilist men and women, generally from the same class years (sophoniores with sophomores, etc.) SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAYH 0 W! Campus Ministry provides each student with a guidebook, which outlines a suggested format for meetings, a list of the Gospel readings for the semester, and the 1ST READING Isaiah 61: 1.-2, 10.. 11 responsibilities of the host. Study questions help guide the 2ND READING 1 Thessalonians 5: 16.. 24 groups in creating conversations that deepen faith. GosPEL John 1: 6.-8, 19--28 WHY: This is a way to make new friends, to talk about RESERVATIONS FoR WEDDINGS in Sacred Heart Basilica and the Log Chapel important things in a trusting atmosphere, to learn more for 1995 will be opened beginning Monday, March 6th, 1994 from 8 a.m. -4:30p.m. Arrangements need to be made by telephone: (219) 631-7512. Thisabout our Christian faith, and to address the challenges of is the phone number of the Parish office, and all arrangements for the Basilicapersonal integration of faith and life. and the Log Chapel must be made through the Parish office.  

'!' t '": l' 7 ":'-'f ': 7 7 ~ .::1 ~ !' ! : : ! : • ~ : : ~ ~ ; ~ "" • "' ~ • -• '"' • • • '"' • • • • • • • • • • • • • a • • • '" • • • • "' "" '* • • • "' '"' • • • • .~ • ,• •"' .• • "' ~ • .• "'.•.....•..,•.-"',.•,.-.,.....-.,.......,....•.•~ "'•"'• '• ....... 'a"'•""•'P• •., "'• •., "'• • .. , ~. ,0 ' ".. "'• •.a .... ·., •• •, •, , •, • • 4 
··· () -·!rn-._,5(1 

c) ·;~J;q

Dece~ber 9, 1993 
page 7 



OKAY. SO You·~ NOT INDf.rf..NDf..NrLY WEALTHY. 
JUT You <AN Jf. IND[tf..NDE.Nr. WITH DIS<OVER.'0 <AilD YOU 6f.T A~IJooo <~DIT LIN[J NO ANNUAL fll AND W£. MN'T <A~ WHAT Tl/1£. YOU 6f.T H0/1£.. 
If YOCI ~OttT 60T IT., 
6lT IT.5 
" 



OINT 
page 8 Thursday, December 9, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRf. DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardm.;an Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Mcredith McCullough Advertising Manager..................... Anne Hero man Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager.............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Edimr ............. Jennifer Habrych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the U niversiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reAect the policies of the administra­tion of cither institution. The ncws is rC'portcd as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcpresem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediwr, Sports Ediwr, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, letters and Imide Columns present the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily those of Thc Ob!.crvcr. Vit'Wpoim space is available to all members of rhc None Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readcrs. The frtt exprcs!.ion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Busin<>s Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sport~ 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Quota' meant realism, not sexism 

Dear Editor: 

We, the London Programme residents of Cavanaugh Hall, have a question to ask. 
A vicious rumor has been cir­culating around London. Everywhere we turn, pubs, the­atres, the Underground, people are whispering about our dorm. They say that "Naugh" has been converted to a female residence. Is this true, since not a single one of us has received written notification of Ms. O'Hara's edict? 
If these rumors are in fact true, why have we been ig­nored? Are we no longer a vi­tal part of the Notre Dame "community?" 
Any help the Observer could give in answering these ques­tions would be greatly appreci­ated by those of us in isolation. Thank you. 
SEAN BARD MICHAEL BARTISH SEAN CAHILL JOHN CHUNG THOMAS HICKS TYLER HOWER MATTHEW JANZARUK CHRISTOPHER POE 
The London Program 

Dear Editor: 
Though I agree with one of the points made by Ashley Shannon in her retort to John Huskusky's letter about the conversion of his dorm("Cavanaugh an example of' dysfunctional Notre Dame family," the Observer, December 2, 1993), many more of her points are completely ofT­base. 
I will agree that the men of Cavanaugh deserve sympathy for their forced abandonment of their home. I too would not look kindly on being kicked out of my dorm. But to pass ofT his opinion about "a group of quo­tas" moving into his dorm as sexism is unfounded and incor­rect. 
First of all, quotas have everything to do with the situa­tion. They are the main reason why more women have been admitted to Notre Dame over the past few years. The admin­istration has announced to the Notre Dame community its 
Duke: Can youconfir.m that 739 people from all three bra~ 
ofe;overnment were involved in conspiracy 'f 
DaJ-Tex. 

intent to stabilize the male­female ratio on campus to as close to 50-50 as possible. 
Without guidelines stipulat­ing how many more females must be admitted in order to achieve this goal, how does Miss Shannon propose that the University accomplish this? 
An important fact to remem­ber in this situation is that though the number of admitted female students might increase, this is no reason to assume that the quality of those admitted will decline. Many overly-qual­ified applicants are turned down for admission to Notre Dame every year. The quality of the female students admitted to Notre Dame will not go down as a result of increased num­bers. 
Another point which I wish to address is his accusation of sexist opinions held by Mr. Ruskusky. After reading his letter, I felt that Mr. Ruskusky had produced a high-quality and extremely accurate description of the situation regarding Cavanaugh Hall. To 
J 

jump from his statement regarding "a group of quotas" to a generalization that "many men on this campus" believe that women are not as qualified to be at Notre Dame is quite unfair to him as well as those not holding the opinions of those "many men." 
I have never heard any male on this campus tell a female Notre Dame student with any degree of seriousness that she does not belong at Notre Dame. In order to be successful here, every single one of us-male and female-had to be successful through high school. Though some of us here may be slightly more qualified than others, there is no reason to assume that qualification is based even partly on sex. 
Most students sympathize with the men of Cavanaugh Hall, but there is no reason to interpret their fair and accu­rate comments as sexist. 
KATIE MORRILL Junior Walsh Hall 
IF {)5t(!AiPAcmJAlON/3, TH{;.!R t.IVEG HA~ 8f£N A FARCE­AN U7T&I<..WASTe! 7H&7RUTH IJX)()UJ Pes71?0Y 7H£5bP8JPt&.... 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''A 11 men are frauds. The ..t\..only difference between them is that some admit it. I myself deny it." 
-H.L. Mencken 

Thursday, December 9, 1993 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR  
Let's all say it again:  
Dear Editor: Mara Fox was not the first Notre Dame victim, but hope­fully she will be the last. There have been others that tragically brought the issue of alcohol-impaired driving to the forefront. One other such vic­tim was Zahm Hall's Michael C. Cogswell, a twenty year old junior in the prime of his life, at the height of his happiness. The English major from Marcellus, New York, was taken from the Notre Dame family on December 6, 1986. He was struck while walking back to campus on Saint Mary's Hoad by a car driven by anoth­er Notre Dame student. Only three weeks earlier, a South Bend man was killed by a drinking and driving Notre Dame student. Prior to that (on September 27, 1986), another Notre Dame student drove impaired, struck and injured a Notre Dame freshman. The Observer ran a viewpoint arti­cle on December 8, 1986, and challenged fellow students with these words: "We cannot change the past, but we do  have a direct effect on the future. We have to ensure the loss of life serves as the fright­ening example it should be. We have to ensure there are no future victims." Many members of the Notre Dame family are making efforts to prevent any more tragedies. Student Government and Hall President's Council have looked at programs to prevent impaired driving, including Weekend Wheels and the Designated Driver Cards. Groups like SADD and Hall's Council on Alcohol and Other Drug Issues are trying to raise awareness with red ribbon campaigns and getting signed pledge cards to not drink and  then drive. Lyon's Hall wants us all to learn from the tragedy of the loss of Mara Fox. Families of the victims seek hope that their loss will be the last such loss. At the bottom of all these efforts and concerns is a com­mon theme: Individuals must make the commitment to never drink and then drive. Why the strong statement to never drink and then drive? Certain elements of the impair­ment caused by alcohol go unnoticed by even the most experienced drinkers and therefore cannot be corrected by practice or desire. Individuals who drink on a reg­ular basis have ample opportu­ nity to learn how to correct for the obvious effects of alcohol: inappropriate emotions (gig­gling or belligerence), clumsi­ness, swaying, and so on. Up to the point of physical incapacita­tion, any function that can be gauged by the drinker can, with practice, be maintained fairly well even after drinking. Of crucial importance, how­ever, is that fact that many of the abilities hampered by alco­hol cannot be detected by the individual and thus cannot be corrected. Alcohol causes impairment in reaction time, information processing, atten­tion, tracking, and other essen­tial driving abilities. The drinker, even when he or she is  attempting to drive carefully, cannot correct for these dimin­ished abilities. Hecent research involving a closed-course test of driving performance included simulat­ed emergencies. In this test, blood alcohol contents of 0.04% were found to impair response to the emergency situation. This finding stems from the fact that alcohol reduces that drinker's ability to handle more than one task at a time. The driver who is affected by alcohol may be able to concen­trate on controlling the vehicle, but is then less able to scan for and respond to emergencies. The safest, most responsible attitude and behavior is to never drink and then drive. I personally have re-dedicated myself to the pledge to never drink and then drive. I hope and pray that these tragedies are the last that the Notre Dame family will have to endure. MARK POGUE Coordinator Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education  

~
'Naughmen need some understanding Teachings of the Ordinary I 
change. With this in mind, I dorms don't have laundry 
Magisterium are fallible I 
Dear Editor: wish to note that the conversion machines, but who am I to say? of our dorm is based on a quota I guess I'd be surprised if the
This letter is simply written The universal Church's prohi­

system -the unfortunate thing 'Naugh didn't have them in the 
to ask the students of Notre 
Dear Editor: bition of such actions as mur­
j
is that we often see t~at word next couple of years, but what
Dame to take both the use of In a Letter to the Editor (The der, fornication, homosexual
and give it a very negative con­about Zahm or St. Ed's? 
the word "quota" in John Observer, Dec. 7), Abel Olivas acts, abortion, etc., are infalli­
notation. This so-called quota It also seemed unfair to
Huskusky's letter ("Cavanaugh maintained that the Church has ble moral teachings that fulfill 
1 
an example of dysfunctional is not established to give state that men have a "tacit as­never claimed infallibility of its these conditions. (Of course, Notre Dame family," the .women some advantage but sumption ... that women are not moral teachings. He gives us a this consensus in itself does not rather to accommodate female as capable." Are we to wonder short synopsis of the First make such a teaching inerrant­
Observer, December 2, 1993) undergrads on the assumption about assumptions made with Vatican Council's definition of ly true; the consensus only
and the subsequent response 
that women and men are regard to men and cleaning infallibility and states that the manifests what is already and
from Ashley Shannon 
equally competent. their clothes? Making such Pope and the Council of objectively true and revealed as
("Cavanaugh's conversion 
Bishops "exercise their infalli­such by God.) 
The problem with this is not generalizations only en­should not have resulted in sex­bility only when they speak as The Council Fathers further
fairness, but a question of the courages more in return, and Iism," the Observer, December representatives of the universal state that "loyal submission ofUniversity's traditions: the fact think we all know at heart that7, 1993), with a grain of salt. 
Church and... clearly and the will and intellect must beis, Notre Dame was an all-male this ND community is strength­
Until Ashley's decision to pick explicitly define their teachings given, in a special way, to the
school for close to 130 years, ened by the contributions of
apart John's half-page letter on as protected from any error." authentic teaching authority of 
and its traditions are thus root­every person here. 
the basis of two lines, I had What Mr. Olivas here the Homan Pontiff, even when ed in those many years. I have Please understand that this
thought that the University describes is the action of the he does not speak ex cathedra community was handling this no problem with admitting is not meant to attack Ashley Church's Extraordinary in such a wise ... that his whole situation rather well. women according to the num­Shannon's letter, but to offer an Magisterium (teaching authori­supreme teaching authority be ber of applications, because explanation and request ty), or ex cathedra pronounce­acknowledged." Although this
With an admitted bias, I 

everyone has a lot to offer to patience and understanding ments. Mr. Olivas is correct in says nothing of the infallibility
have been impressed by the 
this school. I cannot say towards 'Naughmen during this pointing out that there have of such teachings of the Holy
restraint shown thus far by 
only been two ex cathedra pro­Father per se, such a clear and whether that is good or bad, depressing time. Both John'Naughmen-we stayed patient 
nouncements (the Dogmas of strong statement should be
but it's a change. Likewise, if and Ashley were right to com­with Professor O'Hara through­the Immaculate Conception and enough to encourage the faith­Saint Mary's began to admit ment on the great compassion
out a two-hour meeting in 
the Assumption of Mary). From ful to comply. 
men, it would be a very differ­shown thus far by the student
which we were repeatedly 
the fact the ex cathedra state­Even before any Ecumenical 
ent atmosphere. body, and I ask that we all try
given evasive answers to ments are infallible, however, Councils ever met, we have the
I do not condone the labeling to focus on getting along rather
straightforward questions-an he makes the logical error of moral pronouncements of 
of next year's Cavanites as than going out of our way to be
experience which was frustrat­concluding that teachings of Christ himself in sacred ing, to say the very least. "quotas", but this remark stems offended by others' words the Ordinary Magisterium are Scripture. When Christ speaks The stigma which accom­more from disagreement with which arise from thoughtless­not infallible. of the indissolubility of mar­University policy than lack of ness or overly-emotional states Taking Mr. Olivas' advice to riage (cf Mt 19). for example,
panies this conversion is diffi­of mind. Thank you. "consult as many sources as or says "that anyone who so
cult to explain. It is really odd respect for women. Ashley is right to be disappointed in that possible to get an accurate much as looks with lust at a
to hear women talk of their ex­
view of the issue," and in order woman has already committed
one sentence, but to label John LOU WEBER
citement to move into 
to avoid any pre-Vatican II per­adultery with her" (Mt 5:28),
as sexist is entirely unfair. To JuniorCavanaugh, and even more dif­
spective, I turned to the docu­are his statements not infalli­
me, it seems sexist that men's Cavanaugh Hall 
ficult to listen to jokes about the ments of the Second Vatican ble? In asserting that the Council. In the "Dogmatic Church has never claimed the Constitution of the Church," in infallibility of its moral teach­paragraph 25 of the chapter ings, Mr. Olivas denies that the entitled "The Church is moral teachings explicitly enu­Hierarchical," the Council merated by God Himself are Fathers say that "the bishops ... free from error. proclaim infallibly the doctrine If the "nationally recognized of Christ on the following con­theologian" whom Mr. Olivas ditions: namely, when, even quotes, but curiously doesn't though dispersed throughout name, denies the infallibility of the world but preserving for all the Ordinary Magisterium in that amongst themselves and matters of faith and morals, with Peter's successor the bond then his opinion should have of communion, in their authori­little bearing on the beliefs of tative teaching concerning mat­the Catholic faithful. ters of faith and morals, they are in agreement that a partic­MIKE COTTER ular teaching is to be held Senior definitively and absolutely." 
• • I , •, ' I ~ ., . ' • i" 
'· ~ .~ '· .. , • ...". ~. ",__~_?.lfJ·~~~us

0


ACCENT
page 10 Thursday, December 9, 1993 
Music critics select the year's best CD's 
ROB'S PICKS COLLEEN'S PICKS 
10) Honny Jordan, "The Quiet release in four 
years, Lenny has 10) Tripping Daisy, 
concert will almost Hevolution." Honny Jordan is a gui­established himself as an important "BilL" Having much make up for missing tar guru. His fusion of jazz, soul, force in the recording business and potential, Tripping it live.
1hip-hop, and big band sounds puz­one who will be around for a long Daisy will eventually 5) Jimmy BuiTett, zles and con fuses until it is just time. make it onto the heavy "Songs You Know accepted that he is utterly brillant. rotation playlists of By Heart." When a Guru's guest rap shines on the 4) World radio stations around person says opening track, returning the favor Party, the country. "Cheeseburger in that Jordan did for him on his "Bang." They may not be a Paradise" on a col­".Jazzmatazz." K a r l household name like lege campus, the 
Besides other guest raps, the back­Wallinger's R.E.M, but their popu­first person thought ground melodies and spoken-word third full­larity is starting to of is Jimmy Buffett.
9

voeals that Jordan incorporates siz­length of­grow. The !?OUnd that If a person were zle and give his musk a very spicy fering since they carry through the to put existenee indend. breaking entire CD is completely different "Margaritaville" on at a party, within away from the Waterboys and from the norm. Some of my favorite seconds people would be singing 
9) Digable Planets, "Heachin'." releasing "Private Revolution" in songs on the CD are "Change of along. Nothing is left to say about this trio 1986 stays true to his defining trait: Mind," "On the Ground" and "My Almost every college student that has not been said already. Their unpredictability. Umbrella." If you're in the mood to knows at least part of a Jimmy album was the surprise of the year, Utilizing English folk, Manchester listen to something different, check Buffet song. Therefore, even though full of jazzy loops, funky beats, and grave digging, acoustic gems, soulful this CD out. it wasn't released in 1993, "Songs
9

rhymes cooler than breezes. funk, and heartfelt ballads, World 9) Following with the theme of dif­You Know by Heart" is one of my 
Stylistically, they are innovators, Party came off their three-year hia­fering from the norm... Blues favorite COs of the year. fusing hip-hop and jazz like no one tus to release "Bang," the third part Traveler, "Save His Soul." The pub­Jimmy Buffett takes you to a place has ever done before and no one will of Wallinger's dream for a festive licity surrounding their concert where the greatest concern is what ever do again. and safe universe. sparked my interest in the Blues time you're going to take your next 
"Heachin'" is the kind of CD that With their utopian lyrics, in­Traveler and their CD "Save His nap. will never go out of style, revolving teresting insights, and revolutionary Soul" caught my attention. I didn't 4) Various campus bands, and rotating for every generation vibes, World Party has given us know what to expect when I played "Incubus."
3interested in being "cool cats." "Bang" and it is not to be ignored. the CD. Last year, 
8) Darling Buds, "Erotica." 3) Jamiroquai, "Emergency on The variety of music represented N o t r e Andrea Planet Earth." Laughing at the crit­on the CD was surprising. "Love and Dame and Lewis' vocals ics who think that they are insulting Greed" and "Letter from a Friend" S a i n t mesh with them by saying they sound like early were the two tracks that especially Mary's the Darling Stevie Wonder, Jamiroquai was the impressed me, but overall, it is a b a n d s Buds' fuzzy most successful band in ·returning very good CD. c a m e sound like the funk to 1993. "Save His Soul" would make a together to the last two great final exam study break. record a picees of a With fantastic blends of envi­8) ND/SMC Collegiate Choirs, compilation of campus bands. puzzle. ller ronmental, social and lovey-dovey "One Voice." This CD is a little out of If you like jazz, you'll find Thee songs of lyrics, psychedelic bass and a horn the ordinary in a Top Ten CD list, Accent appealing. If you like acoustic alienation, section which is so in synch with but there's so much talent, hard guitar, you'll listen to The Sister desire, con-lead singer Jay Kay's vocals that work, time and dedication represent­Chain and Emily Lord over and over. 
fusion, and submission are absolute­they seem to be having a conversa­ed on it that it deserves a spot on the If you like brass and a driving beat, ly magical. tion, .Jamiroquai songs cause the lis­list. check out Dissfunktion. After having released three fasci­tener to make those goofy faces like The Notre Dame Glee Club sings a Last but not least, there's plenty of
Tmtting albums in the last five years, Bill Cosby does when he's getting great version of "Oh Danny Boy" and rock on "Incubus". Bands like the Darling Buds still seem to get no ready to jam. Shenanigans gives a stirring rendi­Victoria's Real Secret, Chisel, Grope respect. Well, I'm going to give them "Emergency on Planet Earth" will tion of "Let the River Run" (originally for Luna combine driving guitars and some right here. be remembered as the only 1993 al­performed by Carly Simon). powerful vocals. 
7) Goats, "Tricks of the Shade." bum funky enough to make the In addition, there is the Saint XYZ Affair's "Peter Pan Syndrome" The Goats take evnrything very se­speakers stink when the CD is Mary's Women's Choir performing is a rock classic you'll never get tired riously. replaced. "The Bells of Saint Mary's" and the of hearing. 
Breaking out of Philadelphia with a 2) New Order, "Republic." The Liturgical Choir singing "Ave Maria." 3) Billy Joel, "Greatest Hits, Vol. ehip on their shoulders the size of godfathers of techno returned in If the above isn't enough to con­1 & 2." This double CD set is worth
0the Liberty Bell, the Goats deal with 1993 with the release of their long­vince you to check it out, then think the investment. Who can forget topics of racism, the lackadaisical awaited follow-up to 1989's ground­about the people you'll be supporting "Piano Man," "Only the Good Die style of the U.S. government, and the breaking "Technique. if you do. Young" and "It's Still Hock and Holl result it has on inner city youth. "New Order's genius lies in their 7) "Aladdin" has captured not only to Me?" 
By using an in-house band as well ability to mix both the modern the hearts of animation fans every­This is a classic CD from a man as a DJ and a multitude of sassy aspects of synthesized sound and the where, but that will always be the cream of the background vocals. the Goats create traditional aspects of instrumental also music music industry. For a Billy Joel fan,
pa myriad of slamming beats amidst sound. fans. With this would make a perfect holiday intnlligont lyrics and furious vocals. Hather than attempting to ignore it comes a gift. 
6) Pharcyde, "Bizarre Hide." To the fact that they are now dinosaurs memorable 2) Pearl Jam, "Vs." I can't say these California rappers, everything in today's music scene, New Order score of enough about this CD. It seems to be is just one big joke. decided to admit it humbly and music by one of' those COs which you either 
Musically, they embrace any sort accept their role with class. A l a n love or hate, or which grows on you of sound to loop into their crazed "Hepublic" mixes melancholy lyrics Menken over time. drum beats. with music bordering on ecstasy, and perfor­"W.M.A" is one of my favorite 
Lyrically, tlwy are hilarious, clever, resulting in simply wonderful dance mances by tracks from the CD. It has a great 
and soeially aware (in that order). music that you can think to. P e a b o percussion and bass guitar duet 
Vocally, they take on the immense 1) David Baerwald, "Triage." which in turn produces an awesome 
task or tag-teaming with four differ­Triage is a term used by gov­Who can forget the magic of "A rhythm. 
ent rappers and complete it with the ernments to describe the U.S. treat­Whole New World" and the vivid ani­Pearl Jam explores new territory 
precision of a revolving door; it is ment of third world countries, and mation during "Arabian Nights?" with "Vs." Instead of' staying within 
through their transitions that they Baerwald writes lyrics read like one The creators of the Aladdin sound­the musical boundaries of' their un­
truly impress. angry third world resident. track capture the emotion and magic precedented debut "Ten," they 
Bizarre Hide is the champion hip­llis music has no boundaries and of' the movie in such a way that it en­experiment and explore, and have hop album of 1993 
explores all realms thralls the listener. 
created new standards of musical in a year marked by of sound today. 6) Phil Collins, "Serious Hits excellence.
T

a surplus of raw tal­Eight of "Triage'"s Live!" Bands are sometimes criti­1) Journey, "Greatest Hits." ent. ten songs reflect cized because their concert perfor­Journey is one of the all-time great 
5) Lenny Kravitz, themes of sadism, mances do not sound as good as the bands. You can still hear their hits "Are You Gonna Go treason, armaged­studio recordings of the album. Phil on heavy rotation on music stations. My Way." Here is don and AIDS, an Collins cannot be held to this criti­Journey's "Greatest llits" CD con­anothnr artist who alcoholic father and cism with "Serious Hits Live!" tains songs that end up on mix tapes ehuckles at those other current "Another Day in Paradise," everywhere. Such songs as who call him retro. American issues "Against All Odds" and "In the Air "Faithfully," "Open Arms," "Wheel in 
Lenny's rainbow that most artists Tonight" are some of the Sky" and "Any
Eor stylish soul, won't even touch. my favorites, with Way You Want It." painful guitar riffs, Baerwald dishes a their live renditions This San Marleyesque reggae, large helping of cyn­adding another Francisco band con­convineing lyrics, icism. but the listen­dimension to the origi­tinues to be popular and confident vocals makes Kravitz a er is treated to a doasge or optimism nal tunes. years after their rnfreshing musician to listen to. as well. For those Phil songs were origi­"Arn You Gonna Go My Way" con­Socially merciless, lyrieally and Collins fans out there nally released, as tains thmnes or little substance, but vocally untouchable and sporting who missed his con­two generations of Kravitz rocks with so much intensity music that can be danceable, folksy, cert, and even for music lovers have
N 

that the llufT-Iillml lyrics are forgot­and hardeore, David Baerwald has those who didn't, this grown up with their tml. created one of the best albums of compilation of some of music. Through this album, his third this new decade. his biggest hits live in 



Thursday, December 9, 1993 page 11
ACCE-NT 
SCREEN SCENE JIM DOWD 
Costner saves Eastwood's 
"A Perfect World" 
The opening image of Clint Eastwood. Eastwood's "A Perfect World" is "A Perfect World" is essen­puzzling yet engrossing, two tially a chase film, with Butch characteristics of the film itself. Haynes (Kevin Costner). the A man is lying in a meadow fugitive, being pursued by Red surrounded by bills of money, Garnett (Clint Eastwood), the which he lets fly by. This scene, Texas Ranger. explained in the film's final se­Haynes, a career criminal, quence, takes on immense sym­escapes from jail with his psy­bolic importance, and shows chotic friend. The two raid a the directorial skills of house and end up taking a young boy hostage. 

The chase thus begins. East­wood is equipped with a high­tech search van and is aided somewhat reluctantly by a cri­monologist (Laura Dern). 
At the center of "A Perfect World" is the blossoming rela­tionship between Butch and Phillip Perry (T.J. Lowther), the young boy. 
The two have several things in common, one of which is that their fathers left each at an early age. 
Butch grows very fond of Phillip and never intends to hurt him. Phillip, at first obvi­ously shy and scared, warms to Butch and becomes his side­kick. 
Butch caters to the boy's in­terests and shows him the wild side of life. As is common in the "On the Road" genre of film­making, freedom and spon­taneity are the core themes of the movie. 
The film falters mainly in its plot. The plot halts constantly and the characters in the van are not interesting. 
Eastwood seems to make up the story as he goes along. As with most Eastwood films, the material is depressing. 
Eastwood's acting ironically suffers from poor direction. He doesn't give his character much to do or a distinctive personal-ity, having Garnett merely bum­bling around. 

Laura Dern, the token female in the cast, is such a stereo­typed character that one must wonder if her insertion was solely to give Eastwood his tra­ditional love interest who in­variably succumbs to his gruff, yet irresistable charm. 
Clearly, Eastwood has given the picture to Kevin Costner. It is Costner's best performance since "Bull Durham" and it merits an Oscar. 
He lends a creative touch to the deranged Haynes; his char­acter is not your average Hollywood psychopath. 
We sympathize with Butch and end up rooting for his sur­vival. 
Not since Anthony Hopkins has there been a villan so engaging. 
Fortunately, "A Perfect World" sticks with Costner most of the way. When it doesn't, there are major problems. GRADE: B-
By MATT CARBONE 

Bells will be ringing and children will be singing at Notre Dame this Sunday evening. 
In what has become one of the most enjoyable and special Christmas traditions at this tradition­rich school, the Glee Club will perform its annual Christmas Concert this Sunday evening at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
"This is a special time of year on campus," said Mark White, senior bass singer and publicity man­ager for the Blee Club. "Traditionally, the Christmas concert has been [the Glee Club's] gift to the community." 
Toward that end, the Glee Club is donating all proceeds, after rental, lighting and sound expens­es (which have been largely defrayed by Notre Dame's Office of Student Acitivities), to the South Bend Center for the Homeless, as it has done for the last three years. 
· Last year, the Glee Club was able to give almost $3000 to the homeless center, an amount White and his fellow members hope to surpass this year. 
"Last year we drew 5,000 to the Christmas con­cert," said White. "This year, we'd like to draw 5,000-7,000 people." White also commented that advance sales for this year's concert have been brisk, with over 2,000 tickets sold. 
The Glee Club also hopes to increase the money 
donated to the homeless center through sales of 
the poster which has been used to promote the 
concert. 

This poster features a reproduction of "The Adoration of the Shepherds: With the Lambs," by Rembrandt. Copies will be on sale at the concert. 
This concert is also special for the Glee Club 
because it is the first conducted by Daniel Stowe, 
9/ee Club1/fuminales Chris/mas spiril 
,rrr1 ~ ~ rj f~ rt ~ .!)
I~J~ ' ~( • ~ ~ 

an assistant professor who came to Notre Dame's music department from Cornell this year. 
"He's been just great," said White. "He's very refreshing. He's enlivened the latent spirit within us and brought us all together." 
This excitement is not reserved solely for the singers. Senior Todd McNamee is one of many past atten­dees who has been bitten by the Glee Club's Christmas spirit. 
"I've attended the [Christmas] con­cert for the past three years," said MeNamee. "If these guys can't get you into the Christmas spirit, then I don't know who can." 
The Glee Club has several portions of its program intended to do just that. lnterspered throughout the concert will be traditional Christmas carols with which the audience will be encouraged to participate. 
Among these are "0 Come, All Ye Faithful," "Joy to the World" and "Hark the Herald Angels Sing." With . 
5,000 people Strong singing these . . The Observer/Dave Hungehng hymns, it can make for a movingThe Notre Dame Glee Club Will perform th1s Sunday at the JACC. Christmas experience. Tickets are $2 and are on sale at the JACC box office and LaFortune. 
Other songs to be sung are older Latin Christmas songs by Jacob Handl and Claudio Monteverdi, as well as a crowd favorite, "The Sleigh (A la Russe)," in which the Glee Club has­tens the pace of the song until it is a breakneck, rollicking speed. 
All of this is planned in the hopes that the audi­ence will go away full of the Christmas spirit. "This is a special time of the year for the Glee 
Club," said White. "The singers really get up for this concert. It's certainly the most exciting con­cert of the year for us," he added. 
The concert will take place on Sun., Dec. 12 at 7:30p.m. in the JACC. Admission is $2 or more, if you wish to donate extra to the homeless shelter. 
Advance tickets are on sale at the JACC box office, the Lafortune information desk and the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
-
Page 12 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT December 9, 1993 


I 

TOP Ten Reasons to Join Collllllunities ND 
10. No papers. finals or grades 
9. Free candles 
8. Monk wants. you to 
7. Better than an SYR for making new friends 

6. Chance to talk about Sunday's Gospel ahead of time 
5. Discover the challenge of adult Christianity 
4. Easier to get into than an NDE 
3. Co-ed. Co-ed. Co-ed! 
2. Terrific way to learn about your faith 
1. Nobody goes to heaven by themselves 

New Communities begin in January --find out what they're all about NOW! 
Sign-ups and information sheets are available at the Library and Badin Hall Campus Ministry offices. Any undergraduate student may sign up before the end of the semester. The initial commitment is for the Rally Day (January 15, 1994) and six meetings throughout the spring semester. 
• 




0MPUS 
MINISTRY
-

Thursday, December 9, 1993 The Observer· COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Arkansas posts fourth win 

AP File Photo 

Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson posted his first win as the number-one team in the nation last night as his Razorbacks beat Memphis State 96-78. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Typing 287-4082 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost a gold and pearl pin Between the Football Stadium and LaFortune via O'Shag and Neuwland Science. 
If found, please call631-5243. 
Found: a Casio graphing 
calculator in the student computer 
lab of Debartolo on Veteran's Day 
November 11. Call Jarrad x4186 
LOST: silver and gold women's watch lost somewhere between the south din­ing hall and LaFortune reward if found, call Beth at 2764 
LOST AT UNION STATION on Friday 1213 Large man's topcoat: charcoaVblack;inside pocket reads "1 00% wool" or "1 00% wooVcashmere" and "Made in England" If found please call John x2073 
Found-Black Lord & Taylor men's 
overcoat & Honda keys at Union 
Station FRI night. Call 4-2071 
LOST: BLUE-GREEN LAND'S 
END JACKET at 601 St. Louis 
Mistakenly removed during swim­
ming celebration sat. night. 
My GLASSES are in the pocket, 
and I need them. -Matt *1670 
If you found my blue-green Land's 
End jacket at the house where 
swimmers live, please return it or 
the GLASSES in the pocket. 
reward negotiable. I need my 
glasses so I can have them. 
#1670, ask for Tippy. 
HELP I I lost my dark blue back pack in the Huddle this weekend. Contains lots of important stuff for finals. If found, please call x4293. 
FOUND: MEN'S DIVERS WATCH 
WITH LEATHER BAND OUTSIDE 
O'SHAG WED BEFORE THANKS­
GIVING BREAK 
CLAIRE 273-0926 
Lost: If you were at the formal at 
Union Station Friday night and 
accidentally took my full-length 
navy coat, please call me. The 
brand name began with "Brom" 
(Bromex, Bromack, or something 
like that). Alicia x4634 
247 Siegfried 

LOST AT UNION STATION 
Friday 1213, at Formal: 
Brown herringbone tweed 
sportscoat; folded formal ticket 
and paper in inner pocket; 
If you accidentally took it, 
please call. 
Brad x2041 , 319 Stanford 
LOST AT UNION STATION Friday 1213, at Formal: Brown herringbone tweed sportscoat; folded formal ticket and paper in inner pocket; If you accidentally took it, please call. Brad x2041, 319 Stanford 
LOST AT UNION STATION Friday 1213, at Formal: Brown herringbone tweed sportscoat, 40L; folded formal ticket and paper in inner pocket; If you accidentally took it, please call. Brad x2041, 319 Stanford 
WANTED 
Travel Abroad and Work. Make up to $2000-$4000+/mo. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Sat. 11/16 
after 4 PM. Will pay. Call John @ 
x3623 

Need ride to Harrisburg or Pitts., PA area after 10:00 am Thurs. 16. Please call Carrie 284-4367 
need passenger to atlanta on fri. 
12117 call sean x1 057 
Hoi Ho! Ho! I Need a ride to Minnesota (Minn.-Prior Lake area) for Christmas break. very friendly, like to drive, do not bite ... usually. Help with tolls, gas, etc. Please call Kory X 3040 
need ride to kc for xmas brian 1 076 
BEACH Springbreak Promoter. 
Small or large groups. FREE trips 
and CASH. Call CMI1-800-423­
5264. 

Need rides to MINNEAPOLIS after 
4:00 Sat. 18. Please call3486 
NEED A RIDE TO LONG ISLAND 
FOR XMAS BREAK CALL SEAN 
AT299-1307 
Needed: ride to O'Hare 12118 
and/or 1/9. X1305 Scott 
NEED A RIDE TO D.C. WILL 
HELP WITH GAS AND TOLLS. 
PLEASE CALL EMILY AT 
634-2856 

i need a ride to milwaukee 
for x-mas dec. 18. will pay gas 
and tolls julie x27 41 
Help!! Need a RIDE to Philly/NJ 
area for X-mas on Dec. 17. Will 
pay $$ Call Meaghan at x2773. 
Need a Ride? Going to Philly/NJ 
area on Dec. 17. Call Meg x2773 
STILL WANTED ....... I desperately need a ride home to Connecticut or Western Mass. or anywhere remotely close for Christmas. I can drive manual and will help with any expenses. Please call Chris at x4-1069. 
.------------~
I

FOR RENT 
L..CI-ea-n-.s-a-fe-A-pt-.N-e-ar_N_D_____. 
755 South Bend Ave furnished 1 bedrm-240, efficiency-215, 607 E. Corby-2bdrm $330 519 E. Corby-2bdrm $280+heat drive by, call for appt. deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
Furnished House: jan-dec 1994. 3 
bed, 1 1/2 bath. 409 Peashway st. 
walk to NO. Wash/dryr, dishwashr, 2 car garage, 600/mo + util. Show by appt. 233-6523. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 
272-0615. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
ROOMMATE NEEDED 
Spr. Sem. 
Trtle Crk Twnhs 
271-1399 

2, 3, 4 & 5 BEDROOM HOMES 
NEAR NO 

AVAILABLE '94 SCHOOL YR 
232-2595 

FOR SALE 
FOR SALE: Cool beaded earings, necklaces, and bracelets all at high­ly reasonable prices. Great Christmas gills! Call Jessica at 4­2963 
Fly round trip from 
Midway to Los Angeles 
during Christmas Break 
for 2. Call259-1086 
For Sale: big back pack for travel 
abroad, only used 1 semester. 
x1318 

ford scort 85, best ofert, 273 4028 
BROTHER WORD 
PROCESSOR/TYPEWRITER WP­
341 0. VERY LITTLE USE. CALL 
631-3023. 

LADIES NO MINI RING SAPPHIRE 10K $250 273-2725 
FOR SALE 

Plane ticket: S.Bend to Islip, NY on 
12117 
call x2383 

•••• AIRPLANE TICKET FOR SALE ............ 
I am selling a one-way ticket that leaves Saturday, 12118, from South Bend to Denver, Colorado. My mother paid $202 for it, so that's what I'm asking. Call Colleen at x2707. 
FOR SALE: 2 piece sofa kitchen table & chairs entertainment center free 19" color TV to anyone who buys all CHEAP I John 277-4953 will return calls 
I TlCKETS 
· Notre Dame Bowl Tickets For Sale (317) 879-8497 
Selling one way plane ticket 
from O'Hare to Philadelphia 
International, for 12118. 
Call Dave at x2508. 
PERSONAL 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK INVITES ALL STU­DENTS, GRAD STUDENTS, LAW STUDENTS TO ITS FIRST STU­DENT/ALUMNI GET-TOGETHER ON TUESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1993 AT 6:00PM AT REIDY'S RESTAURANT 22 East 54th Street, New York NY. For info call Carey Lamont (212)848-7351 or Monique Headley (914)251-8669 
MARCH FOR LIFE 
FRIDAY, January 21 
DC TRIP 

If interested call NO Right to Life 
631-9006 

G'day NDA-PORT LODGERS OF SPRING '93: COTTOSLOE? NOlA­But don't forget Dec. 10th. You know where, bring a present take the keys-you're fine to drive. 
Julie and Tom long to adopt your 
infant into our loving New England 
home. Your child will grow up in a 
happy home near great schools, 
parks and beaches. Call collect 
anytime (508)535-3718. Easy to 
talk to. 

MERRY CHRISTMAS! MERRY 
CHRISTMAS I MERRY CHRIST­
MAS! 

DON'T BE A SCROOGE. 
WISH YOUR FRIENDS A HAPPY 
HOLIDAY THE EASY WAY-THE 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS. 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY YOU 
CAN ENTER YOUR GREETING 
FOR FRIDAY'S PAPER (the last 
one for this semester). THE DEAD­
LINE IS 3 PM. 
KEVIN 

Clep is waiting in her room with 
your next little treasure, 
You'd better get it and hurry or 
she'lltake it with pleasure. 
Go down the hall and in my room you'll find, Gill number 8 to enrich your mind. 
Kristi M. Merry-XmasS the Girinch 
Happy Holidays to all!!!!!! 
THE DANCE COLLECTIVE WILL BE SELLING COOKIE GRAMS FOR $1 IN BOTH DINING HALLS DURING LUNCH AND DINNER ON WED. DEC 8TH AND FRI. DEC 10TH SEND ONE TO A FRIENDII! 
***SILK*SILK*SILK*SILK*SILK**** 
Eric, 

Good Luck and Thanks for 
Your Wisdom. 

3rd Floor Disciples 
Jeff, Dave, 
Opie, Gunther, 
Cisco, Burks ••••siLK*SILK*SILK*SILK*SILK*** 
THINGS THE SWIMMER WITH THE RED +WHITE HAT IS SICK 
OF: 

1) the kite stuck outside Zahm 
2) Ron 

Going to the Cotton Bowl? Have empty house ijust moved). First 20 callers can crash there (VERY close to stadium) for free. Call Bridget 4-3622. 
EVE AND ROBIN­I THINK IT WAS A SCRATCH AND SNIFF BOOK!!! 
NICKC, 

THE PUMPKIN IS COMING 
the celery stalks at midnight 
HOLA, dear 
Adoption: the placement of your child may be the most precious gill you could make. NO alum wants to be mom through your gill. Professional couple, country home, with lots of love and faith. Strictly legal. Call Tricia and Jim 1-800-820-1139. 
Quality Copies, Quickly 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-COPY 
ADOPTION: NO grad and wife, happily married for eight years, wish to adopt a baby. We offer a warm, loving home with kindness and patience from a full-time mom and devoted dad. Please call Wendy and Tim at 1-800-440-8568 anytime 
Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on Luxury Yachts Seven day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 1 /800-999-SAIL (7245) 
BEER GAMES II (the book) 
GREAT GIFT order NOW receive 
FREE Intellectual Beer Games, 
Offensive Jokes! Send $8 
cash/check ($7+$1 S&H) 
Shipped w/in 48 hrs 
COLLEGE PRODUCTS INC: 
PO BOX 2456 

AMHERST, MA 01004 #######Clothe the naked####### If you know where I can buy the I· shirt "Why do all the trees bend to the west?" Call Bevo at X2569 
LOVING COUPLE HOPING TO ADOPT "If you're looking for a home to bring your precious baby to, we've been waiting very long for a miracle like you." Childless couple dream of loving your baby. Notre Dame grads, lawyer dad, future full­time mom, cozy home where wish­es come true, friendly suburb with children, relatives nearby. Medical, legal, counseling, court approved living exp. paid. Confidential. Call our attorney: (708)957 -6833. 
WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 
LAST CHANCE TO SHOP IN CHICAGO BEFORE CHRISTMAS 
TICKETS $10-LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK CALL 631­8128 
ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE 
CLUB MEMBERS: Our last meet­
ing this semester is at Dan O'Days 
this Thursday. It's a great chance 
to practice what you've learned! If 
you want to go and haven't signed 
up yet, call Laurie at 634-3490. 
NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB 
CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
Sunday, December 12 
7:30 PM in the J.A.C.C. All Tickets are $2 NOW AVAILABLE at LaFortune Information Desk 
WE NEED A RIDE CLOSE TO AUSTIN, TX FOR SPRING BREAK. $$$$ JILL x3352, or KRISTIN x0711 
RIDE HOME NEEDED -Is anyone going home for Christmas to EAST­ERN MASSACHUSETTS or RHODE ISLAND that has a spot in their car for me? Will help with tolls, gas, and can drive a stick ... Thanks,Tara #4975 
Need a ride to D.C. for Break 
Will help with gas and drivi 1g 
call Kathleen x4241 
bean-­
"i feel sheepish" 
you do know how to d'al, don't you? just put your fingers on the numbers ... and push ... 
5-2=3 
... no strings 
my, this ink is black. in fact, it 
keeps getting blacker and blacker, 
the longer i look at it. imagine that. 
thanks for the swing, turtle 
free will, fill were, reel iwlf ... 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 9, 1993 
Two LSU football players arrested 
By JIMMY GOLEN Associated Prc:ss 

BATON ROUGE. La. 
Two LSU football players, in­cluding top running back Jay Johnson, were arrested Wednesday and accused of stealing items worth more than $5,000 from dormitory rooms. 
Johnson and cornerback Hobert Hawkins were booked on five counts of simple bur­glary and 38 counts of unau­thorized use of an access card. campus police said. 
Johnson, a sophomore from Waco, Texas, started eight games for the Tigers in 1993. gaining 558 yards on 106 car­ries and scoring six touch­downs. Hawkins, a freshman from Dallas, had five tackles in four games. 
According to a news release issued by Maj. Connie Swain. police were called to the Kirby Smith Dormitory at 4 a.m. CST, where they found the two 19-year-olds carrying objects later determined to be stolen. 
They were booked into the East Baton Rouge Parish Prison and were being held Wednesday evening until a bond value could be set. 
Each count of burglary car­ries a maximum penalty of 12 years in prison, and each charge involving access (credit or automatic teller machine) cards could bring the two up to 10 years' imprisonment. 
"These are obviously very serious charges against these two young men," coach Curley Hallman said. "We are coop­erating in every way with the police. I have not visited with the young men yet, but I will at the appropriate time." 
The episode was the latest in an alleged series of discipli­nary breakdowns in the LSU athletic department. 
-Last year, free safety An· thony Marshall was charged with beating up a member of the women's track team. 
New-look Giants surprising foes 
By TOM CANAVAN Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
When the New York Giants went to the Super Bowl in 1986, it was almost expected. 
Getting there four years later was somewhat of a sur­prise, especially after Phil Simms was injured in mid-De­cember and a relatively untest­ed Jeff Hostetler was thrust into the starting lineup at quarte­back. 
But that surprise is nothing compared with what's going on in 1993. People are talking about the Giants (9-3) as a Su­per Bowl contender, and that's totally unexpected after a tu­multuous 6-10 season in 1992 and a coaching change that saw Dan Reeves replace Ray Handley. 
"I like being the underdog," cornerback Mark Collins said Wednesday before the Giants practiced for Sunday's game here against the Indianapolis Colts. "Like in 1990, we weren't even supposed to make the playoffs. let alone win the Super Bowl. I like when people don't talk about us and we come through the back door and win another champi­onship." 
While the Giants still have a long way to go before they claim a third title, they have certainly put themselves in po­sition. 
Their 9-3 record has them in first place in the NFC East and tied with Kansas City, San Francisco and Miami for best in the league. 
If the Giants beat the Colts Sunday and either Detroit, Chicago or Minnesota loses, they will clinch their first play­off berth since 1990. 
"This year the expectations weren't there to begin with," said center Bart Oates, one of seven players left from the '86 team. 
"In '90 we were coming off a playoff year in '89. This year we're coming off a 6-10 season and two years out of the play­off's so the situation is very dif­ferent. 
"Every year is different," Oates added. "We'll never du­plicate '86. We'll never dupli­
cate '90. Each year has its own 
personality.  There  are  too  
many variables."  
Statistically,  the  Giants'  

numbers in 1986, '90 and '93 are similar through 12 games. 
However, the 13th game of the '86 season at San Francisco was the turnaround game for that club. New York rallied from a 17-0 deficit to beat the 49ers 21-17 with Mark Bavaro making the memorable play where he caught a pass and broke seven tackles on a long gain. The Giants were almost unbeatable after that. 
The '90 team got off to a 10­0 start, lost Simms in the 14th game and then looked miser­able in winning its final two regular-season games against Phoenix and New England. Af­ter a convincing second-round playoff win against Chicago, the Giants won the NFC title on a late Matt Bahr field goal and then escaped with their second Super Bowl after Scott Norwood missed a last-second, 4 7 -yard field goal. 
How close the Giants will come this year remains to be seen. 
NCAA's 
continued from page 20 

6'2" outside hitter averaged 
4.49 kills p1~r game during the 
regular  season  and  led  
Minnesota with a  match  high  
21 kills.  

The Gophers receive balance from sophomore Heidi Foesch, who added 14 kills and 17 digs in the victory over UCSB. On the season, Foesch notched over one-hundred kills and digs. 
The young Minnesota team will also receive a dose of confi­dence from a partisan home crowd, which regularly ap-think that is healthy for the proaches 1,500 fans. team. We play better under 
In such a difficult place to those conditions." play, Notre Dame's experience The winner of this regional should work to its advantage. semifinal will take on the Penn "There is a lot of pressure on State-Colorado winner on Fri­us," commented Karlan. "but I day night at 7:30. 
--------~~~-------------­
,,.,,.,.,.,.'<<·'<·,.,.,.,.-,,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.x.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.".''"''""'''"'''''"'''"''' TUESDAY «<-."·X·'<·,.,.,.,.,.,.,.x·x·x·,.,.,.,«.,.,.,.,.,.,.x·>X·,.,.,.,.,.""''"'''''''''''''"'''''"'" 
9 PM-12AM $1.00 per game! 
.....,....,.,.,.,.X·'<•,•:•'•'•'•''''"''""''"''''' •,··.:·.,.,.,.:.:·:·'''''•X•X·X THuRSDAY .•.•,•,•,•,•,w,·.w.·.·,•.·,·.·.•.·.•.·.·.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.·.·.·.•.•.·.·.•.w,w.w,·.·,·.·.·.•.·,•.·.•.•.• ...... 
TIME BOWL 9:30-11:30 PM Only $10 per lane! 
w.••• ,•.w,•.w.• •,•.w.w.•,•,•,•,w,•,•,•,.,•,•,•,w.•.w.w.:••wNNoWN.''•""•
STUDENT SPECIAL 
Anytime! $1.35 per game Anytime! 
B:EA,CO:N·. B:QW'l, 
4210 L.W. W. Phone 234-4167 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Meredith McCullough by Sp.m., Thursday, December 9. Contact Meredith at 631-7471 for more information. 
YELLOW CAB HOLIDAY SPECIAL 
Group Rates From Notre Dame 
to O'Hare and Midway Group to Four $1 00 Available 24 Hours Phone# 233--9333 
Will Pick Up at Dorm 
************* THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Finals Extended Store Hours Friday 12/10: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Saturday 12/11: 9 a.m. -Midnight Sunday 12/12: 9 a.m. -Midnight Monday 12/13: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Tuesday 12/14: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Wednesday 12/15: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thursday 12/16: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Friday 12/17: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Saturday 12/18: 9 a.m. -7 p.m. (We'll be open Monday 12/20 through Thursday 12/23 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. too!) *************  


The Notre Dame Club of North Jersey 
Young Alumni Committee Proudly Presents: 
1994 ruiDlg ITIDl Tlhe New Ye~tll' Mlixe1r 
Where: Sports & Games Indoor Amusement Park When: Thursday, January 6, 1994, 6:00-9:00 pm What: A night of fun & games for students, alums, friends and family of all ages How Much: $5 gets you $9 worth of game tokens 
Come see your fr_iends: arrange for that ride bac~ to .campus, visit with your family and ring in the new year. Sports & Games ~s an mdoor amusement park wllh ndes and games for kids of all ages (3-103 yrs.). Batting cages, the latest vtdeo games, Bow lingo, pool tables, bumper cars, kids climbing gym, virtual reality and games of skill are some of the many activities awaiting your enjoyment. 
Come join us for the start to a great New Year with good old friends. 
Sports & Games 
East Hanover, NJ (20 I) 428·1166 From East, NJ From Morristown, South or North NJ 
• 
take Rt. 80W to Rt. 280E • take Rt.287 towards Morristown to Rt. IOE (exit 39A) 

• 
exit onto Eisenhower Pkwy S (towards Livingston) • take RL IOE -5 miles 

• 
follow to Livingston Circle (go 1/4 around circle) (Warnock Jeep/Eagle Dealership on right) 

• 
to RL 10 W follow for -1.5 miles • Bear right before the next light (just before Burger King) 

• 
after Burger King (on left) take right • left@ light & another left @ next light onto Rt. lOW immediately after Rillo's Italian Restaurant • <114 mi. take right immediately after Rillo's Italian Restaurant 

• 
Sports &: Games is straight back • Sports &: Games is straight back 


============================================================================ Notre Dame Cotton Bowl Bowl Gamewatcb 
When: Saturday, Janaury 1, 1994. 30 minu!es before kick-off Where: O'Reilly's Bar 2208 Millburn Ave.. Maplewood.NJ (201)378-9774 Admlulon: $5 50/SO raffie ticket to benefit Christmas In April DlrectiOIII: ··rom East, North & South Take Garden State Parkway to Rt. 78W to Vauxhall Rd. exit, right on Vauxhall Rd. proceed 1 mile Right on 
Millburn Ave. O'Reilly's is I mile on left. ' 
From West Take 78 East to Exit 49B (Rt. 124 E. Map.lewood). Go u.nde.r 711 ~o sign on right for Valley St., take jughandle. R1ght on Valley St. to 2nd ltght. Left on Millburn Ave. 0 Re1lly's 1s 100 yards on Right. 
Remember the North Jersey Club Irish Hotline for Updates & Information­(201) 543-5887 
DW12393 


Thursday, December 9, 1993 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Maine hockey coach suspended Knight criticized for 
-

By GLENN ADAMS Columbia, had been ruled inel­conference to discuss the ac­
Associated Press igible two years ago by the tions taken against hini, Walsh sideline kicking incident 


NO Ro~ins.•. J"eam X~r.tl\al on Dec., 1 o. Anyon~ interested in going, novice or varsity. bring $12,Jo R,ro 23~ LY()l"t$. by Friday. Call Mary at .4?94 w!th questions, \l'iih······.. L····., •. ; NO ftowing';;;sweatshirt orders 'can b.e pt~~ed up pext Friday, December 17. frorri3~6 pm in the Badin Hall office (to the leftof the front do()r)~ If this;is a problem, contact Jan Mooney at 634-3822 . .  
HOUSES FOR RENT 1994-95  
4-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers Call Laurie McKelvey 287-4989  
i~fJR~; ..= ' -•-~ ! -­o...._ !NOTRE DAME itiiiiiiiiiiiift"iiliii I Montogo 11-.ry J..malca -,~,~419 Nogrll Jamc..lcq •,~ $449 Cancun Moxlce •~ $439 Dayton• aoach, Fl •~$149 Pana-City a-ch, FL •~ $129 Local Contacts: Angle Walker @634-4659 Mike Cloonan @634-4451 Michael Roskell @634-1121 120 North Aurena St., Ithaca, NY 14850 1-80\l-648-4849  


NCAA. But Walsh maintained said, "I did not violate and cer­
ORONO, Maine that the original ruling was tainly would not violate any By STEVE HERMAN 
The coach of the defending based on a faulty interpretation NCAA rule." Associated Press national champion Maine hock­of Canada's grading system. He acknowledged making an ey team was suspended Because of Hutchinson's de­error in judgment by not turn­BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Wednesday for five games for cision, Walsh will sit out games ing the original NCAA eligibility Bob Knight swung his foot. allowing a freshman to play de­against New Hampshire, Mas­letter over to university offi­Whether his son was the in­spite questions of academic eli­sachusetts-Lowell and Ferris cials. But Walsh said he felt tended victim or just happened gibility. State. He will be suspended that letter was made "obsolete" to be in the way, the reaction 
An investigation concluded without pay until Jan. 1, when by a second letter from Tory's from Indiana fans was enough coach Shawn Walsh made a he will rejoin his team in Min­high school to the Maine ad­to send the General into an­"serious error in judgment" in nesota. missions office that convinced other tirade. allowing defenseman Jeff Tory Assistant coach Grant him of Tory's eligibility. It's nothing new, of course. to play three games early this Standbrook will guide the team, "The university made a de­Just the first time this season. season, said athletic director whose record dropped from 8-3 cision to suspend me and I live But considering the No. 12­Mike Ploszek. to 5-6 with the forfeitures. with it," Walsh said. ranked Hoosiers' campaign is 
Frederick Hutchinson, the Hutchinson said Walsh's ac­Walsh, with a career record only three games old, Knight school president, noted that the tions did not violate NCAA stan­of 251-120-4, has led Maine to already appears in midseason coach was aware of questions dards, although they violated three Hockey East champi­form. about Tory's eligibility through the NCAA initial eligibility rule, onships and the first national His outburst in Tuesday conversations with other coach­forcing Maine to forfeit three championship in any sport night's 101-82 victory over es and a letter from the NCAA wins this season. since coming to the Orono cam­Notre Dame was triggered by to another school. Jacobson, the NCAA faculty pus in 1984. some sloppy play in the closing 
"Despite the many warning representative, said the coach's "We all recognize the con­minutes by the Hoosiers' mop­signs, coach Walsh chose to ig­actions were not "dishonest." tributions coach Walsh has up crew, which included his nore them," Hutchinson told a But Hutchinson said Walsh made to the university and the son Pat, a 6-foot-6 junior. news conference. "He trusted should have told administrators hockey program over the past Indiana was up by 28 points that his own interpretations of about concerns regarding To­ten years," Hutchinson said. when the younger Knight made the rules were the correct ry's eligibility. "There is no question about a bad pass that Notre Dame's ones." "Had we known that the that. In fact, we look forward to Ryan Hoover intercepted and 
The announcement came NCAA had expressed strong additional contributions in the took in for a fast-break layup. one day after the coach con­concerns about Mr. Tory's eli­year to come. That was too much for the old ferred with Hutchinson, Poszek gibility, we never would have "He and every other coach man, who already was in a bad and NCAA faculty representa­allowed him to play in a single and administrator have a duty mood after scolding some fans tive George Jacobson to explain game until his status had been to put the interests of the uni­for displaying a sarcastic sign why he allowed Tory to play formally and officially re­versity, the students and their directed at the Irish. this season. solved," he said. programs ahead of their zeal During a time out, Knight 
Tory of Coquitlam, British At a late afternoon news for success." went face-to-face with his son, 
Luuk 

CRCD~~ u~ ~ 1J Ucormcorrcrmw2 
tiaPPY Uir-thdaY~ Jill! ~uu~.-e the best! 
Luve~ 

LU£Y and LYnn 
ANTI 

END OF SEASON SALE 
screaming at him as the players went to the bench and sat down. Knight apparently kicked at something, and some fans thought it was his son's leg and started booing. That's when Knight turned from his seat and glared at the anonymous offenders behind him, his face as red as his trademark sweater. 
You didn't need to be a lip­reader to make out his four-let­ter response. 
Two minutes later, the younger Knight scored his only basket of the game, and As­sembly Hall erupted in pro­longed cheers. 
But back to the kick. Did he, or didn't he? 
The crowd of players sur­rounding the bench prevented most people from seeing the apparent assault. Knight re­fused to speak to the news me­dia after the game and did not return a phone call to his office on Wednesday. 
Athletic director Clarence Doninger did not return a call, either, and assistant media re­lations director Gregg Elkin said he did not see what hap­pened. 
Several newspapers re­ported witnesses said Knight kicked at his son, although none of the writers saw it themselves. 
"It looked like he kicked at a chair, like he always does, and Pat may have just been in the way," said Bob Hammel, sports editor of the Bloomington Her­ald-Times. 
Perhaps the closest to a con­firmation Cilme from a televi­sion cameraman who said he caught Knight's kick on tape. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

EVERYllfiNG ELSE IN THE STORE AT LEAST 20% OFF 
NOTRE DAME GOLF SHOP 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY HOURS: MONDAY· FRIDAY 9:00AM· 4:00PM DEC.15-17-9:00AM· 6:00PM (DEC. 20 CLOSED AT 1PM) PARK ON LYON'S BASKETBALL COURTS IF ON CAMPUS 
NO OTHER DISCOUNTS APPLY 
I •••• I •••• •. e • e a-• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • '"'-......... • .. 4'-•-.. -"' .. • .......... "'"' ..... "'"' .. • • • • • .. • • .... • •--• ... •-'"'1 ...... -... ---·-----.. ----~--.:..--. 
L.-----~--~-~-·. .. ... . . . ·-.. --.... ---------­
• page 16 The Observer· COLLEGE FOOTBALL Thursday, December 9, 1993 
-
Taylor and Burris All-Americans 
By RICK WARNER 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Heisman Trophy favorite Charlie Ward, Lombardi Award winner Aaron Taylor and three-time selection Marshall Faulk were named to The As­sociated Press All-America col­lege football team on Wednes­day. 
Faulk made the team for the third straight year, the first player to do that since Geor­gia's Herschel Walker from 1980-82. The San Diego State running back, who will skip his senior season to enter the NFL draft, led the nation with 24 touchdowns, was third in all­purpose yards and No. 5 in rushing. 
Ward directed top-ranked Florida State's "fast-break" of­fense, which led the NCAA in scoring with a 43.2-point aver­age. The elusive quarterback was the nation's fourth-leading passer, completing 69 percent for 3,032 yards, 27 touchdowns and only four interceptions. 
Taylor, the Lombardi winner as the nation's top lineman, and Rob Waldrop made the team for the second consecutive year. 
Taylor, an offensive tackle from Notre Dame, anchored a line that opened holes for the country's sixth-best rushing attack. Waldrop, a nose guard for Arizona, spearheaded a defense that gave up an NCAA­low 30.1 yards per game on the ground. 
Joining Ward and Faulk in the backfield is Northern Illi­nois' LeShon Johnson, the na­tion's leading rusher with a 179.6-yard average. Johnson twice gained over 300 yards in a game and finished with the fourth highest rushing total (1,976 yards) in NCAA history. 
Another record-setter, Wyoming's Ryan Yarborough, leads a trio of wide receivers on the AP squad. The other pass catchers are J .J. Stokes of UCLA and Johnnie Morton of Southern Cal. 
Yarborough caught 67 pass­es for 1, 512 yards to become the NCAA's all-time leader in receiving yardage leader with 4,357. He finished second in career touchdown catches with 42. 
Stokes tied a UCLA mark with 17 TD catches, including a school-record 95-yarder against Washington. Morton, Southern Cal's all-time leading receiver, tied a Pac-1 0 record with 78 catches this season and set a league mark with 1,373 receiving yards. 
The all-purpose player is Al­abama's David Palmer, who was used as a runner, receiver, quarterback, punt returner and kickoff returner. P"almer set school records with 61 recep­tions for 1,000 yards and gained more than 100 all-pur­pose yards in every game. 
Rounding out the offense are center Jim Pyne of Virginia Tech; tackle Wayne Gandy of Auburn; guards Mark Dixon of Virginia and Stacy Seegars of Clemson; and placekicker Bjorn Merten of UCLA. 
Pyne paved the way for the highest scoring team in Virginia Tech history, while Gandy anchored the offensive line for Auburn's first perfect season since 1957. Dixon was the top lineman on a unit that allowed less than one sack per game, and Seegars led Clemson in knockdown blocks for the third straight year. 
Merten, the only freshman on the squad, made 20 of 25 field goal attempts. His 80 per­cent success rate was best among kickers with at least 20 tries. 
Along with Waldrop, the de­fensive line includes Dan Wilkinson of Ohio State, Sam Adams of Texas A&M and Kevin Patrick of Miami. 
The linebackers are Trev Alberts of Nebraska, Derrick Brooks of Florida State and Dana Howard of Illinois. The secondary features Antonio Langham of Alabama, Aaron Glenn of Texas A&M, Jeff Bur­ris of Notre Dame and Jaime Mendez of Kansas State. 
The punter is Auburn's Terry Daniel, who finished sec­ond nationally with a 46.9-yard average. 
Wilkinson, a 6-5, 300-pound sophomore nicknamed "Big Daddy," led Ohio State with 13 tackles for losses even though he was slowed by an ankle in­jury and double-teamed much of the season. Adams led Texas A&M in tackles, sacks, and quarterback pressures, caused five fumbles and recovered three. 




"Luxury Living You Can Enjoy & Afford" "VVhere Tenants Are Of The Utmost Importance" 
• 
4 & 5 BEDROOM TO"WNHOMES • 2 BATHROOMS 

• 
SECURITY SYSTEMS & SECURITY GUARDS 

• 
KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR & RANGE 

• 
WASHER & DRYER IN EACH UNIT 

• 
GAS HEAT 

• 
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

• 
PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 

• 
SKILLED & RESPONSIBLE MAINTENANCE 

• 
ONLY 1 MILE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Meet Our Friendly StaffAnd Let Them Show You Our Beautiful Townhomes 
Now TAKING APPLICATIONS FOR 
'94-'95 SCHOOL YEAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
232-8256 
TTE 
N H
T 0 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

Irish free safety Jeff Burris, here scoring a touchdown against Boston College, was named a first-team AP All-American yesterday. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Must have knowledge of Macintosh computers and their applications. Please turn your resumes in to the Observer office by December 10. Contact Patrick Barth at 631-5303 for more information. 

-
------~ -~~ 

Thursday, December 9, 1993 page 17
The Observer • COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
NCAA committee studies 
W Virginia now football country ­
1994 COLLEGE BOWL TOURNAMENT 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
By MATT HARVEY 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

The only thing West Virginia used to lead the nation in was unemployment and hillbilly jokes. But make no joke about it, this is now football country. 
It would take some doing, but it's not inconceivable that West Virginia could win three national college football cham­pionships this season. West Virginia in Division 1-A, Mar­shall in Divison 1-AA and Glenville State College in NAIA Divison I all are possible cham­pions. 
"West Virginia is exceeding on all fronts because of its win­ning attitude," Gov. Gaston Ca­perton said. 
West Virginia University is 
ranked third in the nation and 
is one of three remaining un-
SOUTH BEND RECORD & CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 12TH 10:00 AM-5:00 PM ADMISSION $3.00 
AT: THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 515 DIXIEWAY N. US 31-33 NORTH 
SI.OO OFF ADMISSION WITH THIS AD 
BUY • SELL • TRADE MUSIC COLLECTIBLES FROM THE SO's • 60's • 70's • SO's • 90's 
LP's-CD's-45's-12 inch singlts-imports posters· magazines· books-concert photos-videos t~slllrts-ca.ssetus-pi1u-patches and much more!! 
FOR DEALER INFO CALL • BU.in at (616) 375-2776 DOOR PRIZES 
SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUCTION 
NOTRE DAME 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North

Team registration forms and rules are available at the information 
South Bend, IN 46637

desk of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). 
Forms are due back to the Center by 5 pm. on January 17. 1994. 
Tournament play begins January 22. 1994. 
UNIVERSITY OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY 
INNSBRUCK, 
NAGOYA, 
SANTIAGO, 
APPLICATION DEADLINE TO 


beaten teams in Divison 1-A. The Mountaineers (11-0) play No. 8 Florida (10-2) on New Year's Day in the Sugar Bowl with a possible co-national championship on the line. 
Defending champion Mar­shall (10-3) plays Troy State (12-0-1) in an NCAA 1-AA semi­final on Saturday in Hunt­ington, W.Va. Also Saturday, Glenville State (10-2) is at East Central, Okla., (9-3) in the NAIA Division I championship game. 
"I think it's definitely unique that a state that's as sparsely populated as West Virginia has three teams this close to win­
.. ning a national championship," Glenville State coach Rich Ro­driguez said. "The chances of it even hap­pening in a big state with a large population and a lot of schools are slim," Rodriguez said. 
With about 1.8 million peo­ple, West Virginia is smaller in population than Chicago and barely bigger than Houston. 
The state has 11 football­playing universities and col­leges. West Virginia is the only Division 1-A team, while Mar­shall is the only Division 1-AA team. 
So, what's the secret? 

"I think it speaks well of the fact that the high school foot­ball in the area is excellent," said ESPN analyst and former college football coach Lee Corso. 
West Virginia and Glenville State are within driving dis­tance of Pennsylvania, which has some of the best high school football players in the country. Marshall is close to Ohio and Kentucky, also re­cruiting hotbeds. 
All three schools also have made successful forays far be­yond the state line. 
SPEND THE SUMMER OF '94 IN RUSSIA 
Join Russian students at a resort hotel just outside Moscow. Study the Russian language and/or Russian literature with the !::~tter being taught in English. The program is open to stuoents witr no prior Russian. 
The Russian students. on full scholarship with hopefully future Yeltsins and Solzhenitsyns amongst them, will be taught economics & western history. 
The mornings will be devoted to the class room courses leaving plenty of time for other planned and unplanned activities ·.·Jith the Russian students. 
Total cost for the 8 week oourse, books, room and board, bicycle rental, airfare: Only $2395 . 
A~ \OLW piiCkage and a weekM<.I In St. Pet.wsburg 1re otrered ad $150 uch ~ ".pti<::. laC uxtras. 
For a brochure, call 1-800-PYCCKOE (792-256'.)) 
GRANT'S RUSSIAN EXPERIENCE 
INCORPORATED 7330 WESTMORELAND Dr., SARASOTA, FL 34243 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
P@'SY (I ~ptth 
football playoff feasibility 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
While fans clamor for an NCAA football playoff, the idea puts reform-minded presidents in a devil of a dilemma. 
"If we're going to sell our souls to Lucifer on this, let's make sure we get paid," Wake Forest president Thomas Hearn said. 
A Division 1-A playoff would generate millions of dollars, but it also could cause problems. That's why the NCAA has de­cided to appoint a committee to study the positives and nega­tives of a playoff. 
"We need to make a decision, one way or the other," said Judith Albino of Colorado, incoming head of the powerful Presidents Commission. "If the answer is no, then fine. If it's yes, then we go on with our lives but with a different ap­proach." 
Albino instructed UCLA chancellor Charles Young to form the study committee, which could result in a vote on the playoff issue at the 1995 NCAA convention. At the 1988 convention, Division 1-A schools overwhelmingly rejected a pro­posal to even consider a play­off. 
A playoff could affect every­thing from conference re­al!gnment to gender equity, the movement to give women's sports equal funding with men's teams. 
But most significantly, it would require a sharp about­face by the Presidents Com­mission, which has tried to re­duce the influence of big money in college sports. 
"If a vote were taken today, it would be overwhelmingly defeated by the Presidents Commission," said Hearn, a leader in the reform effort. "It would not be close. But that's because nobody has conducted the study yet." 
Last June, Nike made a play­
off proposal to the Presidents 
Commission. Several other 
groups, including the College 
Football Association, also have 
floated playoff plans. 
"We keep letting everybody 
else talk about, companies like 
Nike, the press and everybody 
else," Albino said. "We're 
keeping the notion alive with­
out ever coming to terms with 
it ourselves. I just think we 
need to come to terms with it." 
Albino said she hopes the 
study will answer major ques­
tions about a playoff. 
(219) 277-1291 
·­
1-800-328-0206 
NOTRE DAME 
PROGRAMS 1994-95 
AUSTRIA 
.• 
JAPAN CHILE 
HAS BEEN EXTENDED 

JANUARY 14, 1994 
DON'T MISS THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
''Let's play College Bowl!" 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS 213 MAIN BUILDING 631-5882 
page 18 The Observer • GOLF 
-Azinger diagnosed with cancer 
By BOB GREEN pected," Azinger said in a completing the radiation ther­Associated Press statement released Wednesday apy," Dr. Feldman said. "The by his management represen­cancer is localized and there is DOHADO BEACH, Puerto Rico tatives, Leader Enterprises, in no evidence of any spread be­
Paul Azinger, the PGA cham­Orlando, Fla. yond the right scapula. The ex­pion and second-leading money "I plan to be hitting balls pectation is for total cure." winner on the PGA Tour, has a again in about six to seven Azinger will recuperate at form of cancer in his right months and I am looking for­his home in Bradenton, Fla. shoulder but hopes to be hitting ward to defending my PGA "Paul has a very good, very golf balls again in about six championship at South Hills positive attitude," said Tracey months. Country Club in Tulsa" next Stewart, wife of Azinger's close 
Doctors said Wednesday that August. friend Payne Stewart. "He's the lymphoma in the bone of Earlier this year, Azinger very upbeat, very optimistic." Azinger's right shoulder blade shed his reputation as the best Azinger, 3 3, is one of the 

AP File Photo 

PGA Champion Paul Azinger has been diagnosed with a form of can­
they expeet a full recovery. The tournament, defeating Greg players on the PGA Tour, win­
cer but it is not life-threatening and he may fully recover.
overall cure rate for lymphoma Norman in a playoff at the PGA ning at least one tournament in is about 50 percent, aecording Championship in Toledo, Ohio. each of the last seven years, the to the Ameriean Cancer Society. He had emerged as one of longest current streak on the The lymphoma was discov­the game's dominant players, PGA Tour. ered after Azinger played the winning two other tournaments "Paul epitomizes the spirit Skins Game during Thanksgiv­this year, finishing in the top­you want and expect from a
.. 
ing weekend in obvious pain three nine times, earning great player," Tom Watson, and with a clearly restricted $1,458,456 and adding his captain of the 1993 Ryder Cup swing. third straight strong Hyder Cup team, said from his home in 
lie had exploratory surgery performance. Mission Hills, Kan. on his right shoulder in 1991 The lymphoma was discov­"It is his spirit that sets him when X-rays showed a spot on ered by Dr. Frank Jobe at the above other players in the the shoulder bone, but no ma­Centinella Hospital in Los Ange­game. His faith and his spirit lignancy was discovered. lie les. Dr. Lome Feldman, chief of will pull him through," Watson began experiencing pain in his oncology at Centinella, said said. back last month and very near­Azinger will receive six Azinger joined the tour in 
ly withdrew from the Skins chemotherapy injections, one 1982, but struggled and had to every four weeks, followed by return to qualifying school in
Game. 
llaPPY 1~th (jir-thdaY
"My doctors are very opti­five weeks of daily radiation 1983 and '84. He finally broke therapy. through in 1987, winning three
mistic that they have caught 
Love, 

this early enough so that a full "Most patients resume their tournaments and $822,481, 
Mom and Dad, Patrick. Kieran & Billy
normal activities soon after second best on the tour.
and complete recovery is ex­






,. 
... 
,. 

Thursday, December 9, 1993 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
SPELUNKER 
WE. JOIN OJfZ 1-ff~OGS AS ~6'{ 
R£-ENIE.R EARfH':s ATMOSPHERE­
HoL-D ON E\/t.R'fBooyl W£'RE DROPP\N' L-IKE 
NOTRE-DA/'1\E FOoTBALL IN ffit. PoLLS! 
BECA\lSE SOMEVf..'( M'i T~ OOLLfl..RS WILL BE Pfl..'ii~G FoR '{OJR PRIS()~ CE\.L. 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
AT 11-IAI INSTANT, lHE CAR­ToONIST REALIZ.ES Ht ONL'{ HAS ONE. DA'/ f:.EfoRE: THE 
END Of Tl-lt. SEoM£STER TO 
RESOLVE 11-115. S10RYLINE 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
!--\'{ \111-\oL'C \'R()\3LEM 
I'S M'{ LIP':> MCNE 
WI-I£~ I 11-\INI<. 
DAVE KELLETT 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Dickens's "Ske.!ches by 
4 "Bonanza" brother 
a Minnesotan 14 Commotion 15----the minute 16 Supported 11 Funnyman Allen 18 100 dinars in 
Iran 19Some New 
Zealanders 20 Commotion 23 Literary sister 24 Cosmic reason, 
to Confucius 25 Obits, e.g. 29 Minded 61 Dismiss 62 Expire 63 On the rocks 64 Equivoque 65 Wheedles 66 De Gaulle's 
predecessor 67 A neighbor of Lat. 
DOWN 

1 Wash against 2 Antipathy 3 Rum drink 4 Confusion 5 Ron Howard 
role 6 Conjecture 7 Dissolved 
substances a Creole patois 9 It may be black 
or harlequin 1oApoIIo as sun god 11 "-Kind of 
Man," 1946film 12 Priest in Shiloh 13 Sts. 21 Exposed piece, 
in backgammon 22Tainted 26 Mural starter 27 "._.Neptune's 
--wash this 

blood": Shak. 28 Fragment 30 County in Pa. or 
N.Y. 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

lggy knew he was extremely lucky to get a room with a view. 
OF INTEREST 

liThe Student Art Forum will feature two brief study­br~;~;k ~pportunities: . The first is a twenty-minute look at ~os¢pb §tella's Madonnas. The Director of the Snite bd:useum')vill be ·the guest speaker. ·This will take place tqd&.y at 5:30 p;m. at the Suite. At 6 p.m. the group will watch a black ~ white holiday film classic, ''Miracle on ~4th Street,\. Join us for a holiday break before fmals. <Aia! and d~ughnuts will be served. '"' 
DINING HALL 


St. Mary's 
Call 284-4500 for menu information. 


lver Get Somebody Totally Wasted! 
TAKE THE KEYS CAll ACAB. TAKE ASTANO . 


fRifNOS DON'T LH fRifNOS ORIVf DRUNK 
..... 
• 
32 Conjecture 33 Filibuster 
busters 36 Chandelier 37-cit. 38 Stretch of 
turbulent water 39 According to 40 Scottish Arctic 
explorer 41 Inspire 43 Fillet 45 Full of bracken 46 Gentle breeze 47 Balalaika 
feature 48Row 49 Mimir or Ymir 53 Confusion 57 Render &ORow 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-r=-r.:::-r-::--r=--r::-1 
-=-+::+.=+::::+-:::+.=:-+=-1 
~::+,:,-8 
=T.-:+-:-+=-i 
-:::-+,:.+.:,+=-! 
~:;,+.--1-::-l -;-;t;:-t:~-+.:;:+:-trl 

___.__.__,__,__.L.....J 31 uh-h u h 
32 Barrel organ 33 Bluff 34 Solitary one 35 Earthy colour 36 Sister of Rachel 39 Cheerleader's 
asset 42 Cattle 
contagion 43 Deviationist 44 Pen for tars 46 Turn sharply 48 Folklore 55 Part of P.R. 

heavies 56 Appropriate50 Wide open 
57 Sam Spade, 51 Link e.g.
52 Council site in the 1500's 

58 Skeleton 54 River to the opener Ubangi 59 Cry of discovery 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-· 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, December 9, 1993 
Volleyball heads to Minnesota for NCAA test 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR .281 for the match while playing nearly Assistanr Spons EJiwr flawless volleyball. "We played very well as a team 
Prior to defeating No. S Nebraska in the because we were physically and mentally sncond round of the NCAA tournament. prepared for the match," explained the No. 17 Notre Dame volleyball team Karlan. "We had a lot of fun out there." had bt~en content with the goal of hosting If Notre Dame hopes to leave Minnesota a match. with the same feeling of enjoyment, they 
Ilowevt~r, succt~ss tends to breed a lack will have to shut down a scrappy Gopher of eontnntment, and tlw tantalizing goal squad that has knocked off three nation­of the Final Four will motivate th«~ Irish ally ranked teams in its last four match­as they prepare to play tlwir first "Swnet ns. Sixtnnn" match in school history. Minnesota (24-9) finished third in the 
Notrn Danw, the fourth sned in the Big Ten with a 14-6 conference mark. Midnast rngion, will takn on unrankml However, the Gophers started their tune­host Minnesota at 8 p.m. central time in up for the postseason in impressive fash­Williams Arena. ion, defeating No. 14 Ohio State and No. 
Notre Damn's road to the Final Four 7 Penn State to solidify an invitation to looked to bn hnadt~d straight through the NCAAs. South Bend, but Minnesota pulled off a They have made the most of that invita­huge upset at No. 4 UC-Santa Barbara tion, upsetting heavily favored Santa and was ehost~n to host the Mideast Barbara in five games, 13-15, 15-7, 5-15, rngionals. 16-14, 15-10. In that match, the 
"We were obviously disappointed about Gauchos had a 14-11 lead in game four not being able to host, but Minneapolis is and were serving match point, but were a great eity," r:ommented Irish senior co­unable to put away the resilient Gophers, captain .Janelle Karlan. "We're excited to who reeled off five straight points to turn be there." the match. 
Notre Dame's exeitemnnt at playing in Compared to the experienced Notre their second consecutive NCAA tourna­Dame team, which relies heavily on a ment was evident last Sunday. as the core of upperclassmen, Minnesota is led Irish played ttwir best volleyball of the by two strong young players. season in dominating Nebraska 15-11, Freshman Katrien DeDecker, a native 15-10, 15-9. of Belgium who earned Big Ten 
Three Irish players finished with dou­Freshman of the Year honors, is the piv­ble figures in kills. led by junior outside otal member of the Gopher offense. The hitter Nicole Coates, who' notched a career high 14. As a team, the Irish hit 
see NCAA'S I page 14 the line. 
Irish drop first game to Purdue 
By AMY GRIFFIN Down 38-27 at the half, Notre Dame battled Spons Writer back against the favored Boilermakers in the second half, outscoring Purdue 32-28. Junior 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team lost Letitia Bowen led Notre Dame with 14 points and their lirst game of the season last night, a 66-59 16 rebounds, recording her 17th career double­setbaek to No. 22 Purdue at West Lafayette. The double. It was the fourth time this season Bowen Irish's record now stands at 4-1. has posted double figures in rebounding. 
Freshman Beth Morgan tied Bowen with a team-high 14 points. The freshman from Bloomington, ln. is averaging over 14 points a game and is currently the Irish's leading scorer 
Senior Sherri Orlosky also reached double fig­ures with an 11-point performance. 
For the Boilermakers, four players scored in double l'igures. Stacey Lovelace had a game-high 15 points and 11 rebounds. Also contributing to the Purdue victory were Jannon Roland (14 points), Cindy Lamping (11 points), and Shannon Lindsey (1 0 points). 
Purdue had the edge on the boards, with a 31­24 advantage on defensive rebounds. The Irish, however, outrebounded Purdue 18-14 on the offensive boards. 
In the lirst half, Purdue shot 12-30 from the field and made four out of nine three-point shots. The Irish defense tightened up in the second half to hold Purdue to 8-24 from the field and one of seven from behind the three-point stripe. 
• The Purdue defense posted seven blocks against the Irish, limiting Notre Dame to a 29.4% field goal average. 
The last time the Irish opened the season with a 4-0 record was in 1977 when Notre Dame won five consecutive games, but the loss is an encour­aging one, as the Irish showed they can play with a ranked opponent. 
The next action for the Irish is on Saturday
... 
when they play host to Seton Hall at 2 p.m. 
The Pirates beat LaSalle last weekend in the Pal's-Mayfair Farms Invitational championship, 73-48. Seton Hall was ranked third in the Big East preseason poll. 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
The team was unavailable for comment due toFreshman Rosanne Bohman scored six points in a late arrival. 


.-... last night's loss at Purdue . 


Irish All-Americans Irish safety Jell' Burris joins Aaron Taylor as a first-team Associated Press All-American 
see page 16 

Daws and McCarthy named All-Americans 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY "It doesn't surprise me at Assisrant Spons Ediror all," said teammate and fellow freshman Jen Renola. "She's a 
Notre Dame women's soccer great player and a great per­players Cindy Daws and son and she definitely deserves Michelle McCarthy were it." named to the National Soccer McCarthy, a sophomore for­Coaches Association of ward, was named to the sec­America/Umbro Central ond team. She also was placed Region All­
on the MCC all-tournament America first and first teams. and second Renowned for her outstand­teams, ing dribbling skills, McCarthy respectively. placed fourth on Notre Dame's 
The region­scoring charts this season with al All­a personal high 36 points on America se­12 goals and 12 assists. She lections pre-scored three game-winners, cede the Cindy Daws including the clincher versus national All-Duke, and tallied eight multi­America selections. ple-point games. 
Daws, a freshman midfield­'Tm excited," she said. "I er. was named to the first didn't think I had a great year, team after leading the Iri'!h in and I didn't think this would scoring this season with a happen." Notre Dame record-tying 16 "I think that's incredible," goals and 20 assists for a pro­said Irish tri-captain Stephanie gram-record 52 points . Porter. "It's a recognition that 
She has already been named both of them deserve and I'm to the Midwestern Collegiate very happy and excited to see Conference all-tournament, them get it." all-newcomer, and first teams Sophomore midfielder Ragen as well as being named MCC Coyne became the first Irish Newcomer of the Year and women's soccer player to be MCC Tournament Most named to an All-America team Valuable Player. last season when she was 
She tallied either a goal or placed on the national All­an assist in 18 of Notre America second team. Dame's 22 games and the Irish The Irish, who ended their were 18-0 in games in which season as the MCC champions she scored. She set Notre and the number one seed in Dame's records for goals, the Central Region, finished assists and points in a season with a program-best 19-3 by a freshman. record and a national third­
place ranking. 

Inside SPORTS 
Knight In Trouble Making Giant Strides
l'if!: 
Indiana coach Bobby 


The New York Giants are Knight is under fire for
It;/' 
this year's surprising team. r 
an on-court incident 
as they have rebounded involving his son 
from a 6-10 mark last year to go 9-3. 

see page 15 see page 14 





