.r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 133 MONDAY, APRIL 26, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Victims sought amid tornado debris in Tulsa 
TULSA, Okla. (AP) -National Guardsmen searched for more victims amid tornado debris and survivors collected scattered belongings Sunday after the twister that killed at least seven people. 
"This just flattened every­thing," Gov. David Walters said after seeing the damage in Tulsa and suburban Catoosa. 
More than 95 people were treated for injuries ranging from cuts to burns. 
The twister toppled a church in Tulsa. In Catoosa, it demol­ished at least 60 mobile homes, 23 houses and several busi­nesses, Police Chief Benny Dirck said. 
Walters said authorities were looking for a 4-year-old boy missing since the tornado hit Saturday night. But police later said they had been searching for a child missing from a wrecked van until the body of a 7 -year-old girl was found. 
State emergency director Tom Feuerborn called a damage estimate of $100 million "very loose." He said he hoped to have better totals after teams from the state and the Federal Emergency Management Agency checked the area. 
Feuerborn's state Department of Emergency Management initially reported 1.0 deaths, based on reports from ambulance services, but he said Sunday seven deaths had been confirmed. He said 16 people had been admitted to hospitals. 
Walters sent about 100 Na­tional Guardsmen to Catoosa and said he would ask Presi­dent Clinton for a disaster dec­laration to make federal funds available. 
"We will ask early and often," Walters said, standing in front of the truck stop where strips of shredded metal roof dangled like Christmas tree tinsel. Tractor-trailer rigs were turned over in the truck stop's parking lot. 
House were left without walls or roofs. Cars rested atop piles of rubble. Garbage clung to the limbs of trees. Utility crews worked through the night to remove downed power lines. 
People knelt precariously on the ruins of their businesses and homes to reach for belong­ings. 
"A lot of people just want to give up," Dirck said. 
The tornado struck a few minutes after Tulsa's tornado sirens sounded. 
After destroying a church and knocking down power lines in downtown Tulsa, the twister lifted up and touched down again five miles to the east, moving along Interstate 44. It swept away cars and trucks and blitzed the truck stop where Walters visited, along with a nearby truck stop, before hitting downtown Ca­toosa. 
"There were pieces as big as a semi twirling in the wind," said Dirck, who lives three blocks from the hardest-hit area. "It looked like the whole funnel was lit up. It was really eerie." 
About 20 people were eating at the restaurant in the demol­ished truck stop when the tor­nado was sighted through a window. Worker Jeremy Ben­nett used his time wisely after someone came in screaming that a tornado was approach­ing. 
In less than a minute, Bennett turned off all the pilot lights on the stove, covered grease vats with lids, and unplugged a microwave oven and placed it on top of the lids to keep them from blowing off. 
"There's no telling how many lives that saved," said Pat Marchbanks, owner of the truck stop. 

Packin' up and movin' out 
Walsh sophomore Liz Bishko works on the arduous task of taking down her loft. Due to new University regulations, student had to return their rooms to their original condition by Sunday, April 25. 
Marchers demand gay rights in D.C. rally 
WASHINGTON (AP) Throngs of gay men and women spilled across the historic Mall on Sunday demanding acceptance and equal rights from a society that often scorns their community. "A simple matter of justice" was their ral­lying cry. 
In brilliant, summery sun­shine, they came by the hun­dreds of thousands to tell America who they are and what they want: everyday citizens seeking an end to legal discrimination that threatens their jobs, privacy and peace of mind. 
"We are the new American refugees, coming home from exile," Torie Osborn, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, exhorted the mellow, enthusiastic crowd. 
"We won't compromise our freedom. We won't negotiate our freedom away so those who have freedom can be more comfortable," said David Mixner, a Los Angeles business consultant and fundraiser who has advised President Clinton on gay issues. 
The U.S. Park Police esti­mated the crowd at 300,000, and local officials reported no problems. 
March organizers said the event drew 1.1 million, a turnout that would rival the great civil rights and anti-war protests of the past quarter­century. 
Some same-sex couples held hands or hugged Sunday in an atmosphere they described as more comfortable and support­ive than what they encountered in their daily lives. 
"You can walk around holding hands and being completely natural with each other without fear," said Chris Triebert, 41, a graphic designer from Brattleboro, Vt. 
The formal program was a blend of music, political speeches, biting humor and in­sistent demands for rights. One speaker drew a laugh when she announced that red-sequined dresses were burned in front of the FBI's J. Edgar Hoover Building -a barbed reference to recent published accounts that Hoover liked to wear women's clothing. 
At least two cross-dressers were on the program, including a male comedian who poked fun at straight fears about letting gays into the military. 
The subject spoke volumes about the historic moment. The first gay march on Washington since 1987, in the planning for two years, came in the first 100 days of the first White House openly sympathetic to gay aspi­rations. 
Clinton, who invited gay leaders to a White House meeting earlier this month, lent support from a distance. In a speech in Boston to newspaper editors, he said he had paid a political price for trying to end the military ban. 
In a message to marchers, he declared, "I stand with you in the struggle for equality for all Americans, including gay men and lesbians." 
Thousands of people came not for the rhetoric, but to shat­ter by their presence the stereotypes that others have 
see MARCH I page 4 


Right-to-lifers seek alternative means 
Editor's note: The Following is the first in a two-part series examining the changing role of the student pro-life movement. 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
In the wake of an abortion movement that has become in­
• Pro-choice/ page 4 
creasingly violent on the pro-life side, factions that favor the same point of view have become divided on the means to achieve an end to abortion. 
This is witnessed within Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Right­to-Life whose members, though united in their cause to protect unborn life, are not without their many faceted beliefs as to what may be the best way to further this cause. 
Sidewalk counseling-com­bined with prayer-is what co­president Bill Keen sees as the most powerful tool to end abor­tion. 
"Being at the clinic to offer assistance and encouragement is best," said Keen, who has been been a sidewalk counselor for the past five years. "Unfortunately people think of violence when they think of our efforts. 
"We are here to help and let 
the women know that there is 
an alternative." 
Co-president Claire Johnson, though, sees a greater amount of effectiveness in her involve­ment with clinic "rescues" and Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (C.A.L.L.). a national pro­life organization. 
"Every rescue that I have 
participated in has saved a life," 
said Johnson, who has 
participated in 10 rescues in 4 
years and has been jailed for all 
of them. 
"A lot of good comes out of 
being in jail, especially because 
of the opportunities for post 
abortion counseling there," she 
said. 
Johnson added that she will 
continue to participate in res: . cues even in the event that they become a federal felony, which has been proposed by Congress. 


Developments 
in the Abortion Movement 
Twenty years yields different views on abortion 
By SARAH DORAN nition of factions within the Associate News Editor pro-life movement itself. 
Jn the· 20 years since the .Roe "The violence of kUling in 
v. Wade decision that ruled the name of pro-life makes a abortion to be a constitutional mockery of the pro-life cause. right, the abortion movement As we abhor the violence of has evolved into <.me of diverse abortion. we abhor violence as 
beliefs and goals. a dangerous and deplorable 
means to stop abortion,"' reads 
Most alarming in what has a statement by the United become an increasingly more States Catholic Conference. violent pro-life faction is the shooting of Dr. Gunn, an abor­But.the director of pro·life tion provider in Florida. Geor~ group Operation Rescue, Ran­gia and J\}abama. dall Terry, responded to the 
shootbtg by stating "while we 
Not only has it prompted the grieve for him, his widow and increase in bullet proof vests for his children, we must for abortion doctors ·and 24 grieve for the thousands that hour secUrity guards at clinics. he has murdered!' but has served as a call to arms .. among abortion With the recent installation 
.providers· whO say lt is past of the first pro-choice time to defend themselves. · Presidential administration in 12 years, the rules of abortion 
At the same time, it has seem as though they will prompted an increasing recog· 
see HISTORY I page 4 

~------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
It's finally time to crack those books, but where? 
As the semester rapidly comes to an end, and many of us are frantically trying to cram a semester's worth of work into a few short weeks. Finding a place that is comfortable enough so · that your rear end does not fall asleep yet not so comfortable that you ______________ have trouble keeping your eyes open is key. 
Studying in the dorm room can be ruled out immediately. If the rare occasion occurs that you have the room to yourself, frequent interruptions by the phone, sectionmates, and the mere presence of your bed can be enough to keep you from submerging yourself in your books. 
Many students pack up their books and trek to Hesburgh in hopes of getting something accomplished there. However, even the library, the very center of reading and writing on any college campus, can be distracting. If you are able to get past the orange and lime green color scheme that runs throughout the building, 
Beth Regan 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Observer 


H L a ESJ ITIJ 0 ~ 81l i)!:JU
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 

WORLD 
P'fe visits Alballia 
SH ODRA, Albama -Pope John Paul II, in his first visit to a nation where religion was banned until two years ago, cited Europe's poorest country on Sunday as an example of ethnic tolerance in the Balkans. "Don't degenerate into that intolerant and aggressive nationalism," John Paul urged, referring to the war in nearby Bosnia-Herzegovina.John Paul said he was encouraging Albanians in a moral and material renewal but without forgetting the brutal, anti­religious dictatorship that ruled for nearly 50 years. "Albania had plunged into an abyss from which it was a real miracle you could climb out without bloodshed," said the pope, speaking in the largest Roman Catholic church in the Balkans. It had been turned into a gymnasium by Communists during a 24-year ban on reli­gion, and reopened last Christmas Eve.Before returning to Rome late Sunday, the pope consecrated four bishops, one of whom had been condemned to death by the Communists on a charge of spying for the Vatican. 
NATIONAL 
AMES, Iowa -About 40,000 people turned out for Willie Nelson's Farm Aid VI concert, but he and other artists said there is more to supporting farmers than appreciating country western music. "Farmers are the bottom rung on the economic ladder," Nelson said at the daylong musical festival at Iowa State University on Saturday. Nelson, joined by Indiana native John Mellencamp and more than 40 other top artists, criticized 
OF INTEREST 
• Seniors' last visit to the Grotto and Sacred Heart will be held May 13 at 9 p.m. The service will start at the Basilica and be followed by a candlelight procession to the Grotto. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING April23 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 316,083,160 -1.23 to 241.85 S&P COMPOSITE -2.43 to 437.03 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -15.40 to 3413.77

UNCHANGED 576 

GOLD 
+$0.50 to $340.00/oz 
SILVER +$.010 to $3.917/oz 
~-----­

-------,­
Monday, April 26, 1993 
FORECAST 
Sunny and cool today with highs in the middle 50's. Tomorrow increasing clouds and highs in the middle 60's. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 54 34 Atlanta 79 532 Bogota 66 45 Cairo 81 70 Chicago 59 50 Cleveland 64 45 Dallas 79 63 
Detroit 57 51 ndianapolls 61 55 Jerusalem 64 45 London 59 48 Los Angeles 86 58 
Madrid 54 39 Minneapolis 57 36 Moscow 63 43 Nashville 69 59 New York 76 51 Paris 59 48 Philadelphia 78 50 Rome 72 41 Seattle 55 47 South Bend 5648 Tokyo 81 66 Washington D.C. 81 57 

agribusinesses for not paying enough for farmers' goods. He said big business could do a lot to stem the flow o foreclosures by paying farmers better.Nelson started the concerts when large numbers of families were losing their farms to foreclosure.Since the first Farm Aid fund-raising concert at Champaign, Ill., the organization has given more than $10.8 million to some 100 farm groups, hot lines, churches and social service agencies in 43 states. 
CAMPUS 


NOTRE AME-Notre Dame has received a $350,000 gift from The Boeing Company to support its Bessert Center for Aerospace Research. The gift will be used to purchase a variety of technical equipment including laser-based measurement and visualization systems, high speed computers, a hydrodynamics facility, and instrumentation for acoustic and multi-phase flow measurements. "We are grateful to The Boeing Company for this generous gift," said University President Father Edward Malloy, "It will have an immediate and beneficial impact on research and teaching in aerospace and mechanical engineering at Notre Dame." According to B.A. Cosgrove, recently retired senior vice president at Boeing and a 1949 Notre Dame graduate, "We believe that state-of-the-art research and test equipment will help Notre Dame develop excellence in teaching and research, enabling it to provide top quality aerospace science engineers for our nation. The wind tunnel at Notre Dame is one of the best university facilities in the nation." The Bessert Center, completed in the summer of 1991, houses aerodynamics, dynamics and structures, vehicle design, flight simulation, particle dynamics and anechoic laboratories in which aerospace, automotive and environmental research is conducted. 
I 

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1607: An expedition of English colonists, including Capt. John Smith, went ashore sat Cape Henry, Va., to establish the first permanent English settlement in the New World. 

• 
In 1865: John Wilkes Booth, the assassin of President Lincoln, was surrounded by federal troops near Bowling Green, Va., and killed. 

• 
In 1964: The African nations of Tanganyika and Zanz­ibar merged to form Tanzania. 

• 
Five years ago: The worst nuclear accident in history occurred at the Chernobyl plant in the Soviet Union. At least 31 Soviets died as a direct result of the accident. 


-~----~~-~-----------­

Monday, April 26, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Archbishop 
to teach 
theology 
Special to The Observer 
Rt. Rev, Dr. George Carey, the Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury, will be a visiting member of the University of Notre Dame's theology faculty this summer. 
Archbishop Carey, the spiritual leader of the 28 independent churches of some 70 million Anglicans worldwide, will teach Theology 529, a one-credit summer session course on a subject in which be is un­rivalled as the world's foremost expert. Anglican theology. 
The course, entitled "Anglican Theology; Roots and Branches," will be taught from July 26-30 at Notre Dame. 
"The Notre Dame theology department considers it a great privilege and an unparalleled ecumenical opportunity to have such a distinguished visitor with us," said Lawrence Cun­ningham, chairman of theol­ogy. 
"Archbishop Carey is a person of wide pastoral experience and thoroughly committed to the Christian 
Church." 
This will not be Archbishop Carey's first visit to Notre Dame. In March 1991, as archbishop-elect, he gave a lecture here on "The Kingdom of God and Church 
Veltsin encouraged, but changes are doubtful 
MOSCOW (AP) -President Boris Yeltsin appeared to be winning a vote of confidence in a key referendum Sunday but was likely to fall short in his push to force new parliamen­tary elections, according to preliminary exit polls and par­tial official results. 
Yeltsin sought a mandate for change from the referendum so that he could overcome the Communist-era parliament that has tried to thwart his reforms and curb his powers. 
Turnout was moderate, run­ning close to 60 percent of the 
105.5 million registered voters. That was probably too low to give Yeltsin the absolute major­ity that he needs to force par­liamentary elections. 
That turnout also would be too low to enable Yeltsin to push through a new constitution to replace the hard-line Congress of People's Deputies with a two­chamber, U.S.-style legislature. 
The weather varied across Russia's 11 time zones, from snow in parts of the Far East and Siberia to warm, hazy weather in Moscow and much of European Russia. Election officials in many districts re­ported voters returning early from their country dachas to cast ballots. 
Non-partisan banners were draped in Moscow that urged Russians to vote. A few pro­Yeltsin banners that said "Da, Da, Nyet, Da" also came down before the polls opened because electioneering is forbidden on 
In the final days before the vote, Yeltsin waged a Western­style campaign, relying heavily on television advertising. He kissed a baby on the day before the referendum. 
The 62-year-old leader also made a raft of promises to spe­cial interest groups, raising pensions for the elderly, in­creasing stipends for students and reversing a decision to raise the price of gasoline. 
Yeltsin first proposed the referendum in December to re­solve the power struggle with the Congress. 
By Sunday evening, voter turnout was running at 55 per­cent to 65 percent in most of Russia's 89 voting districts. The Central Election Commission said several hours before the polls closed that turnout was 
54.2 percent in Moscow and 
56.8 percent in St. Petersburg, two Yeltsin strongholds. Turnout was 21.2 percent by late evening in the secessionist republic of Tatarstan. 
The referendum asked voters whether they had confidence in Yeltsin, who was elected to a five-year term in 1991 as Russia's first popularly chosen president; whether Russians approved of his economic reforms launched in 1992; and whether there should be new presidential and parliamentary elections. 
The election questions require majority approval by the entire electorate, while the first two require only a simple majority 

TheObserver/Jake Peters 

Singing the blues 
John Popper, lead singer of the blues rock band Blues Traveler, performs in the concert held at Stepan Canter this past Saterday night. The sold-out concert was part of the AnTostal festivities. 
Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev, a close Yeltsin aide, said Sunday that "very, very preliminary early returns"' were "encouraging," but he did not give specifics. 
Other results were: 
-An exit poll by the Russian Center for Public Opinion and Market Research showing vot­their ballots had favored Yeltsin in Moscow, the Far East and Siberia. 
The poll showed that in the Far East and Siberia, 59.6 per­cent favored Yeltsin, 52.6 per­cent backed his reforms, 42.6 percent favored early president elections and 64.3 percent wanted early parliamentary balloting. The area was not 
. . ' 


Drop off your books at: 
the Cavanaugh Room in LaFortune 
Wedn&~day, May 5 from 2-8 
'-~, ,f, '
Thurdday, May 6 from 2-8 Friday, May 7 from 12-5 Saturday, May 8 from 9-noon 

Books will be sold next fall. All profits go directly back to the seller. 
page 4 The Observer Monday, April 26, 1993 
Pro-choicers speak out 
By SARAH DORAN 
Associate News Editor 
Although a group advocating a pro-choice opinion is not what many students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's would expect to find on their campuses, it is exactly what was available to help with clinic defense during the anti-abortion protests of the Collegians Aetivated to Liberate Life (C.A.L.L.) last month. 
About 35 faculty, students and alumni of both schools gathered to "protect the free­dom of choice" during the four days of blockade demonstrations in front of the Women's Pavilion. according to group organizer and Saint Mary's senior Henee Young. 
The group was quickly put together after members of the National Organization for Women (N.O.W.) contacted fal~ulty known to be pro­choice warning of the upcoming demonstrations and enlisting their help to keep the clinic open. 
"We were not an organization before the demonstration, just volunteers trained in clinic defense with a goal of keeping the clinic open," said Kerstin Sule. a Saint Mary's senior and member of the group. 
The creation of the group, which is not officially recog­nLr.ed by either sehoul. has met with varying responses. 
"Many faculty and adminis­tration members think it is wonderful to have a different opinion, while more students seem to be upset about the group's existence," said Young. 
"We have had lots of resis­tance," said Young, whose name was on a flyer advocating the groups activities. "I've had several hang-ups and prank calls." 
But Young does not believe that the creation of a group favoring a pro-choice view detracts from the Catholic character of either school. 
"It is not meant as an insult against what Saint Mary's or Notre Dame stands for," she said. "It has many people ask­ing questions and serves as a forum for the discussion of different viewpoints." 
The group is far from being acct~pted, though. 
"The fact that some involved faculty members without tenure J..1 participate in only the behind the scenes aspects of the group means something," said Young. 
Right 
continued from page 1 
makes you think," she said. "Much of what C.A.L.L. does is purely educational in that it ba­sically goes with the teachings of the Catholic church and asks others to sacrifice." 
Johnson participated in the 
C.A.L.L. sit-in and will take a leave of absence from the Uni­versity at the end of this year to join the group on a full-time ba­sis and be active in its rescue and leadership teams of stu­dents. 
She did not side with the Uni­versity's point of view in the sit­in and believes that Notre Dame is missing the mark of its Catholic tradition by not taking a stronger stand in the anti­abortion cause. 
"I am ashamed of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and how the administration acted during the sit-in," she said. "I was humili­ated when they gave the Laetare medal to Senator Moynihan last year. It was the most pro-abortion thing they have done. 
"The should be no question of what the University's position on abortion is and yet I think there is a question-a very big one. I think the University is wavering on an issue that it should stand firm on." 
But Keen did not participate in any of the C.A.L.L. aetivities and supported the University's actions and final decision. 
History 
continued from page 1 
"I had mixed feelings in the tactics that C.A.L.L. used," he said. "I felt uncomfortable with their methods and my con­science told me not to take part. 
"Regardless of all tactics that are used in the movement to prevent abortion, we can't lose focus of our objective to be there for the women and chil· dren." 
A recent development in the abortion movement, the killing of Dr. Gunn, a doctor who per­formed abortions in Florida, Alabama, and Georgia, may perhaps also be the most detrimental to the anti-abortion cause, according to Keen. 
"It is evil and I whole heart­edly condemn it," he said. "You cannot justify the ends by the means-it is wrong." 
But the tone of Keen's strong denunciation of Gunn's murder is something that Johnson's response lacked. 
"It is morally wrong to kill anyone deliberately," she said. "But you can build a good de­fence for the man who killed him. 
But both Bill Keen and Claire Johnson agree on prayer being perhaps the most effective tool to prevent abortion. 
"There is no way abortion can be defeated humanly," said Keen. "Lets let God take care of things and complement prayer with action." 
"Prayer is probably most ef­fective," said Johnson. "We have tried the political way for 20 years and things have only gotten worse." 
486, and counseling in feder­ally funded clinics. 
continue to change, as was recently witnessed in President Clinton's repeal of laws that made obtaining an abortion more difficult. 
The repeal opened the way to fetal tissue research, investiga­tion of the "abortion pill" HU 

AS YOU WISH IMPORTS 
(formerly Guatemalan Imports) 
Many new handcrafted accessories, clothing and iewelry from: 
Nepal Mexico Peru India Guatemala 
Clearance Sale!!! 
20°/o-40°/o off! 
LaFortune Room 108, 1st floor April 26-May 1st (Sat.) 10:30 a.m.-5:00p.m. 
ART HISTORY COURSES 
Please note: The DART listing for all of the . advanced Art History courses (ARHI) which are listed as having either ARHI251 or ARHI252 as prerequisites, should also have stated that this requirement can be waived through departmental permission. Students are encouraged to consider these courses as a 
means of fulfilling their Fine Arts 
.
requirements. 
March 
continued from page 1 
about them. 

"All gays aren't flaming queens," said Steve Starr, 43, a Denver travel agent marching alongside Robert Jacobson, 37, a telephone company techni­cian. "We don't cross-dress. We don't wear heels. We're just normal gay men." 
The marchers clogging streets and lawns on an unusually warm spring day looked a lot like other summer demon­strators in their shorts, colorful T-shirts and sensible shoes. 
March contingents ranged from parents with their grown gay children to gay parents pushing their toddlers in strollers. There were disabled people in wheelchairs, and a separate group of marchers with AIDS. 
T-shirts and banners adver­tised attitudes from humorous to defiant. "It's not just a phase," and "Friend or phobe?" "I can't even think straight" and "Hate is not a family value" and, in a sign of the times, "We're here, we're queer, we have E-mail." 
From North Carolina came the Pride Marching Band. From Colorado came Buddhists for Civil Hights Justiee. There were lesbian social workers from Kansas, gay cowboys from the Mid-Atlantic Gay Hodeo Association, and gay American Indians who assembled under a huge monument to World War I heroes. 

Department of Theology NEW COURSE Theo 251 Sec. 01 Liberation Theology by ] . Matthew Ashley 12:50,2:05 MW CALL#5108 

Subs • Salads • Pizza 
Daily Sgecials For April 
Mon-6" BO 0 
(Buy one 6" Sub, Get 2nd One Free) Tues-Double Punch Day Wed-Any 6" cold sub and med. drink 
Only $222 Thurs-$1QQ off any Combo Meal (6" Bigger Bite Sub, Med. Drink, Chips) Fri-Free Bag of Chips with purchase of 
6" sub and med. drink Sat-$1QQ off on any foot, long sub Sun-Double Meal Deal-Two Foot,long 
Subs, Two Med. Drinks, Two Bags of Chips-Only $822 

Located at Ironwood Plaza North 
S.R. 23 & Ironwood (near Martin's) (219) 273, 2234 
Fax: (219) 273, 2445 

Monday, April 26, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Serbian leaders meet with EC, sanctions loom 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -The leader of Bosnia's Serbs rebuffed a last-ditch attempt Sunday to gain backing for a 
U.N. peace plan and avoid tougher sanctions on the re­maining states of Yugoslavia. 
The self-styled Bosnian Serb parliament was expected to support Radovan Karadzic's re­jection of the plan, which calls for the division of Bosnia among the three warring fac­tions. 
Karadzic's meeting with Eu­ropean Community chief nego­tiator David Owen was the last before sanctions were sched­uled to take effect at 6 a.m. Monday (midnight EDT). 
Possibly worse was to come. The United States and its West­ern European allies planned to consult next week about the option of air strikes on Bosnian Serb positions if they continued to oppose the peace plan. 
Karadzic was grim as he ar­rived in the northeastern Bosnian town of Bijelina to re­port to the Bosnian Serb assembly. 
"If World War III erupts, it will be because of the Vance­Owen plan," he told reporters. 
On Saturday, Owen stormed out of a meeting with Karadzic in frustration over obstacles set up by Bosnia's Serbs to a plan dividing Bosnia-Herzegovina into 10 provinces along ethnic lines. 
Bosnian Muslims and Croats already have signed the plan, which would give each group three provinces and split con­trol of the capital, Sarajevo, among them. As new U.N. sanctions loom against Serbia and Montenegro for backing Bosnia's Serbs in the Bosnian war, Owen redoubled efforts to win agreement from Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic to the plan. 
Karadzic's delaying tactics Saturday seemed calculated to defy the threat of anti-Serb foreign intervention and eco­nomic sanctions on Yugoslavia. 
The sanctions are tougher than those passed in May by the United Nations. 
They include: freezing Yu­goslav government and private funds in overseas banks; pro­hibiting Yugoslav ships from passing through members' territory; detention of Yugoslav ships, trains and aircraft abroad, and cutting off ship­ment of Yugoslav goods on the vital Danube River. 
,. BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • 
~Fe»~ c (I) 
<( 0 
en G) 
~ 
(.) <( NOTREDAME ~ 
t:u FEDERAL CREDIT UNION ~ 
<.!) CJl
G0 )> :::> r 
(!) NIENIBERS ~ 

• 
(/) 
~ 
§
<( 
(/) 
OAVAIWLE! 
TRADE-IN~-i
~ NO MONII:V DOWN '"' 
<( 
(.) EXTENDED 
FINANQ RAttS AS LOW AS ~ 
t:u SERVICE 
%*~
<.!) CONTRACT 
:::> Available On Most Models! 
8 • 0 APR h;
(/)
(!) 
• OTHER RATES AND TERMS TO 60 MONTHS ALSO AVAILABLE ' • ~ • WITH APPROVED CREDIT ON SELECTED MODELS ~ 
;=!!!~~U~!;;f 
~ 124 E. IRELAND~ 
~ (US 31 & IRELAND, THE OLD BRITE WAY) -i 
gSOOTH BEND·(219)299-1444 ~ 
~ (Telephone No. corY"I9Cted c::Urg sale, any) h; ::::J Budget sells rental fleet cars, pre-owned cars and quality trade-ins. CJl 
(!) • 
• BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES • BUDGET CAR SALES 

LONDON (AP)-The scene·is becoming familiar in world fi­nancial centers: traders taking emergency measures so they're ready for business the moment markets reopen after a devastating bombing. 
In February, it was New York recovering from the World Trade Center blast, which killed six people and injured 1,000. In March, 13 bombs rocked Bombay, damaging India's financial capital and killing 300 people. 
In April 1992, London's fi­nancial district was hit by a huge bomb, causing $1.2 billion in damages. On Sunday, the recovery process was under way once again -and damage from last year hasn't all been repaired. 
The Irish Republican Army on Sunday claimed responsibility for a massive bomb explosion Saturday that killed one person and left the financial district a roped-off tangle of shattered buildings and streets littered with broken glass and debris. Damages could surpass $1.5 billion. 
The News of the World said freelance photographer Edward Henty, 34, was killed while on assignment for the tabloid newspaper. It said his body was found near The HongKong and Shanghai Banking Corp. building. 
"The best way to frustrate the terrorists is to have the city back at work tomorrow and we are working hard to ensure that it is," Sir Francis McWilliams, lord mayor of the City of London, said Sunday. 
The IRA attacks Britain's fi­nancial center in hopes of making British rule in Northern Ireland unacceptable in terms 

CAREER OPPORTUNITY 
London: IRA bombs another world financial center 

AP 

of its cost, terrorism experts said. 
By bombing the district, "they believe they're having success ... putting additional pressure on the government," said Ian Geldard, editor of Conflict, a newsletter on international terrorism. 
The bombs also can drive away business, Geldard said. After the 1992 blast, the British government reluctantly agreed to act as reinsurer of last resort after insurance companies said they would stop offering terror­ism coverage for big buildings. 
But in all the attacks, vital businesses have found ways to resume operations quickly, even if full repairs take months. Financial traders need to operate when markets are open because a sudden sharp movement in prices can wipe out anyone who cannot re­spond. 
"Millions can be lost when you can't get into your office to deal," said Terry Galgey, who began setting up a small busi­ness called Emergency Dealing Services after the IRA blast last April. 
On Sunday, police were al­lowing people with offices in the district to see what damage was done to them. Officials ac­knowledged London would not be running at 100 percent on Monday. 
Several companies set up temporary trading desks they hope to rent out to traders who are unable to get into or use their offices. The telephone company set up a special line to help affected businesses get phone lines. 
Landlords hope to rent out property that has been sitting dormant during Britain's long recession. The Corporation of London -the major landowner in the fmancial district -said it had 12 inqmnes from businesses displaced by the bombing, and three have already found new accommo­dations. 
The Stock Exchange and the Lloyd's of London insurance market predicted few problems Monday. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1994-95. If you are currently a junior and interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams on Tuesday evening, April27, 1993 at 7:00p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo 

page 6 The Observer Monday, April 26, 1993 
perpowers Japan and Ger­many. 
Jammin': 

The sluggish global economy, rising trade tensions between 
The Early Days

the economic superpowers and 
Finals are coming... 
efforts to tie up the loose ends on a $28.4 billion economic aid package for Russia are at the 
Follow the 
top of the agenda as the IMF and its sister lending agency, the World Bank, hold their annual spring meeting this 
Honor Code 
week in Washington. A senior IMF official. who briefed reporters on the up-il==========================d 

The 
ND German Summer Language Institute 
June 21--August 4, 1993 
History

The Notre Dame German Summer Language Institute offers an intensive summer program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits at $130 per credit hour (!) in small, lively classes taught with imagination. The professors are experienced in offering concentrated, yet 
LECTURE 

personalized instruction. Recent NO graduates benefit from a SO% reduction in tuition. 
of Black

BYReu.
Learn The Language of the 90ies 
German Feature Films/Soaps Videos/Interactive Video/Computers/Video Discs Daily Tutorial in State of the Art Language Laboratory 
Cyprian 
Catholics 

Tuition Savings/Personal Attention Imaginative Instruction/Lively Classroom Atmosphere/Experienced Professors 
Davis)
Classes Offered (three credits each): GE 101 Beginning German I: first 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Intensive introduction to German for 
in the 

students with no or minimal background. GE 102 Beginning German II: second 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation ofGE 101. 
OSB 
GE 103 Beginning German Ill: third 2 1/2 weeks (3 cr.). Continuation of GE 102. 
United

Fulfills ND language requirement.Taught daily 9-11 a.m., tutorial at 1 p.m. 
~ April 27, 1993 

GE 240 Conversational German (3cr.). A course for students of all ages with some background in German ( lOl/102= elementary, or equivalent). Emphasis on conversation, speaking fluency and 
~ 7:30pm-9:30pm

comprehension, using interactive video discs together with accompanying textbook. Communicate effectively and appropriately in a range of common situations and for a variety of purposes. 
~ library Auditon·um
Fulfills ND language requirement. Taught T{fh, 7-9:30 p.m. 
Application forms may be obtained by writing to: Summer School Director, 312 Main 
~ Reception to foUow 

in the Facully Lounge
Building, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Israel to allow deportees to go home 
AMMAN, Jordan (AP)-Is· rael will allow about 30 Pales­tinian deportees to return home after years in exile as part of a package of conces­sions to the Palestinians, a se­nior Palestinian said Sunday. 
The repatriation decision ap­parently is linked to an Arab decision to return to Middle East peace talks, scheduled to resume Tuesday in Washing­ton. 
Saeb Erakat, deputy leader of the Palestinian delegation to the talks, told The Associated Press the deportees will come from the first batch of Pales­tinians eXpelled from the OCCU· pied territories from 1967 to 1987 for anti-Israeli activities. 
Erakat did not say how long the repatriation process would take. 
"This is according to an agreement reached with Israel to reschedule the return of all Palestinian deportees," Erakat 
IMF predicts tough year for world economy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The world economy, after suffering through two years of dismal growth, will fare little better in 1993 as unexpectedly severe recessions in Japan and Europe continue to retard growth, the International Monetary Fund is predicting. 
The IMF's new economic forecast, due to be released of­ficially on Monday, highlights the dangers facing the fragile economic recovery underway in the United States. 
While America is expected to perform better than any other major economic power this year, economists are worried that the subdued U.S. recovery is at risk from weakness in the world's two other economic su­
-said. 
The Palestine Liberation Or­ganization earlier listed 1,700 Palestinian expelled by Israel since 1967, when the Jewish state captured the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
The reported Israeli agree­ment to let 30 Palestinians, all believed residing in Jordan, back within 48 hours was ap­parently aimed at demonstrat­ing the Jewish state's willing­ness to make concessions to boost prospects for progress in the talks. 
Earlier Sunday, Erakat warned his people ~not to raise their expectations" of a break­through when the stalled nego­tiations resume. 
"We face Israeli intransi­gence. There's a big difference between dictation and negotia­tion and trying to make peace under these terms is not pos­sible," he told The AP. 
He said that if Israeli Prime 
coming discussions on condition that his name not be used, characterized the current global economy as "bad, still bad and it could be worse." 
While praising the new Clin­ton administration for taking steps to cut the federal deficit, he said more would have to be done and suggested that the administration should intensify its discussions on a Value Added Tax, a form of national sales tax. as one of the best ways the country could boost its international competitiveness. 
In a speech last December, IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus said that for the world economy to escape from the doldrums the United States would need to attack its budget deficit, Japan would have to Minister Yitzhak Rabin "persists in having negotiations just for the sake having negotiations, he will have failed the peace process." 
In Israel, Rabin tried to allay the fears of the Palestinians, saying Israel was committed to eventual territorial compromise in the occupied lands. 
Rabin also offered the Pales­tinian peace negotiators an immediate role in directing in­vestments in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and running some parts of daily life there before an autonomy agreement is reached in the Washington talks. 
"I hope very much that the Palestinian delegation and the public in the territories will un­derstand that a better offer may never by made by another Israeli government," Rabin said in an interview with Israel TV's Arabic-language service. 
come forward with a new stimulus program of spending increases and tax cuts and Germany would have to reduce interest rates. 
The senior IMF official said he was pleased to see that all three countries were finally taking steps in the right direction. 
"We have been able to avoid the worst-case scenario," he said. 
The official characterized the economic outlook in Europe as "very bad" with the IMF fore­casting no growth at all this year and less than a 1 percent increase in output for 1994. This anemic performance was blamed on what could be the worst recession in postwar history in Germany, the domi­nant economy in Europe. 
Benazir Bhutto bids for return to power 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) ­After three years on the side­lines, former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto is making an­other bid for power. 
Some see it as a risky game that could lead to martial law if it misfires. But her return would be cheered by the United States, an ally estranged by Pakistan's nuclear policy and alleged support for anti-Indian terrorism. 
Bhutto, the first woman to lead a modern Muslim nation, was dismissed by President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in 1990 after 20 months as prime min­ister. 
Although she was accused of corruption and mismanage­ment, the underlying reasons were her political clashes with Ishaq Khan and army generals. 
Earlier this month, lshaq Khan suddenly ousted her suc­cessor, Nawaz Sharif, on similar corruption charges and for about the same real reasons. Sharif had threatened to try to take away some of the presi­dent's powers. 
In the aftermath of Ishaq Khan's call for elections July 14, Bhutto is once more jockeying for advantage and placing her people in pivotal roles. 
It is a striking turnaround for 
KPB 
Bhutto. She had accused Ishaq Khan of committing a "constitutional coup" when he dismissed her, but supported his ouster of Sharirs 30-month-old government. 
As the price for her support, Bhutto demanded "free and fair elections" within 90 days, including voting for the four provincial legislatures and local elections. 
Ishaq Khan has not met her demands so far. Ilis five-year term ends later this year, and analysts say he believes his chances of keeping his job are better with the existing legisla­tures. 
In a country where opinion polls are rare and unreliable, Bhutto, 39, is probably the most popular politician despite a term in office nawed by inde­cision, lack of direction and re­fusal to compromise with op­ponents. 
Sharif has strong support in Punjab, Pakistan's richest province with 60 percent of the nation's population, and among businessmen in other areas. 
Bhutto said last week that if she wins, a mutual arms re· duction treaty with India would be a priority of her government. 

Viewpoint 
Monday, April 26, 1993 page 7 
The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor •••••••••Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor....•. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ...•....... George Dohrmann Production Manager •••.•.••••.Kathy Fong Accent Editor .•.......•...••. Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EditorNiewpoint Business Office  631-4542 631-4541 631-5313  AccenVSaint Mary's Day Editor/Production Advertising  631-4540 631-5303 631-690018840  
Sports News/Photo  631-4543 631-5323  Systems/OTS Office Manager  631-8839 631-7471  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Laundry policy remains sexist 
Dear Editor: 
Recently, many have com­plained of the lack of real issues to hit the editorial pages of The Observer, of issues that would address injustices while still remaining in the students' power to induce change. Stand­ing in water a foot deep the other day, I realized that I was actually standing in the middle of such an issue. An issue that I have found to burn deep in the hearts of most Notre Dame stu­dents. 
The water I was standing in was from a couple of faulty washing machines in the laun­dry adjacent to Badin Hall. Even more discouraging was the lint mixing into this water and sticking to everything it touched. 
Of course, this was hard to see at first, since my glasses were steamed up from the drastic temperature change be­tween the arctic South Bend cold and the sultry laundry out­post. I could only wonder if this was appropriate hospitality for a man who had just walked across the campus exposing his boxers to everyone. Even more importantly, for someone who had paid $20,000 to do this. 
My only repose was found in the fact that everyone was in the same situation-well, at least all of the male population on campus. Actually, I thought, the residents of Pangborn Hall probably had to walk some­where to do their laundry since their hall had just changed to a female dorm and as of a few years ago when the old Saint Michael's laundry burned down, it was not feasible to put washers and dryers in any other dorms-or so the admin­istration said. 
So I did some research into this issue and found out that I was incorrect. Somehow, washers and dryers were able to be found for the women of Pangborn. How thoughtful-How Sexist! Either the administration still believes that doing laundry should be reserved primarily for the female gender or that the renaissance man, who is willing and capable of doing his own 
· laundry, does not exist on the Notre Dame campus. Regardless of what the case may be, I urge all students of both genders to protest this ob­vious discrimination with phone calls and petitions to the administration, residence life and student government. And as to the administration, I would ask them to consider in­stalling some laundry equip­ment in the men's dorms sometime between building their next stadium and newest shrine. Paul C. Notaro Alumni Hall April 23, 1993 

DOONESBURY 
Racial division apparent during Bookstore games 
Dear Editor: 
First, I must apologize for the sin that I was indeed a Book­store Basketball referee. In working these games, I saw a very disturbing trend and prob­lem that seems to permeate the nation today. I am not talking about the comments about my various body parts, my mother's mating habits, or my sexual preferences. Yelling at the refs is a hallowed American institution, and I know that basketball is a lot like church: many attend but few under­stand. 
But I did see a very real problem from a few players and fans when I worked a game where a predominantly black team played a predominantly white one. I saw a polarization and an "us against them" mentality that I had heretofore never encountered in my four years at Notre Dame. 
For a vocal few on both sides, my calls were criticized solely on the basis of race. When I called a foul on the white team, their fans thought it was be­cause I was "intimidated by the big brothers" (Direct quote). When I called a foul on the black team, I heard "so that's how it's going to be," insinuat­ing that I was trying to help the white team win. 
Players also got into the act. After a close call, I had one African-American player di­rectly challenge my decision saying that I made the call be­cause he was black. He later flat out told me he hated me. The crowd also jeered the teams with racial stereotypes that went beyond the harmless generalizations of a basketball game and entered the ven­omous region of hate. 
Again, I must emphasize that most players went about their business in a very respectable manner. Most fans kept their comments where they belong: directed at the blind and stupid referee. But the few who turned these games into questions of racial conflict could not be ignored, and they highlight what seems to be a disturbing trend in the American social agenda. 
I saw both sides polarize into hostile camps. I saw blacks carry a distinctive chip on their shoulder, quite ready to blame me for perceived world injus­tices. I saw white bitterness and fear that I really had not seen before. I got the feeling that both sides wanted to be completely separate from the other. As long as this is the mentality, I fear that their wish will continue to be true. 
I cannot imagine how we can possible solve meaningful crises in America if racial bigotry from both sides is a trou­blesome issue in the trivial ex­ercise of a pick-up basketball game. 
Daniel H. Fulkerson Off-Campus 
April 23, 1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Mil<!, WHAT'5 7Hf3 "TAl<& OUt< OAUGffTCRS 70 W0RJ< OAY"AJ£X IS SO &XCITWABOUT? 
/I THINK IT'S A S&tf-ESTEEM 
&VE3NT... \ 
THI'3 WWN&5J¥W W&'R& AU­5/JPPOS/3[) TO TA1<i3 (J.Jf< 6/R/,S 70 WORJ< 50. W/3 CAN SHOW 
TH/3/11 HOW MUCH TH/3Y'I.I.r 
813 VAWW IN TH8 WORJ<­
PlAC/3. \ 
BIJT we'Re NOT VAweJ IN 7HI3 
WORJ<PlAC&. 
I 
I !<NOW. IWM 
7HINJ<JNG OFBOI<ROW­
/NGSOM/3­
ONE's OFFICE. 
\ 

"0ld forms of government finally grow so oppressive that they must be thrown off even at the risk of terror." 
Herbert Spencer 

Get up, stand up, stand up and submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
~------~-----------~--~--·----­
Viewpoint
page 8 Monday, April 26, 1993 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reader tells more about Phelps 
Dear Editor,  home/church sits Topeka's  you want?" He dealt with few, if  
biggest public park, Gage Park.  any, issues aside from O'Dell's  
As a resident of Topeka,  About a decade ago, there was  alleged lesbianism. Phelps was  
Kansas, I want to sincerely  a "scandal" in the park involv­ crushed in the primary. It is my  
thank Paul Pearson for his ar­ ing homosexual activity. Phelps  personal view that the only  
ticle in the April 22 Viewpoint  and his gang now picket "Gay"  people who voted for him  
section, "God is too busy with  Park nearly every weekend, in  warlted to get him as far .way  
the world to hate homosexu­ whatever weather. Also situated  from Kansas as possible.  
als". It is a very good article,  in the park is the Topeka Zoo.  When I was skimming  
and I was greatly pleased to see  On numerous occasions, the  through the paper and saw the  
it.  director and staff have con­ headline of this article (before I  
Let me say, in no uncertain  fronted Phelps and his picketers  actually read it), my first  
terms, that I think the  for being so obnoxious as to be  thought was of Fred Phelps. At  
"Reverend" fred Phelps is a  annoying the animals. Phelps  every protest, his picket sign is  
lunatic of monumental propor­ pickets the local newspaper for  the biggest, screaming "God  
tions. The man is really quite  running articles attacking him.  hates gays!" I have driven past  
frightening. I spoke with Paul  He calls it the "Fag Rag".  hi<; protests and yearned to yell  
Pearson after I read the article,  Fred Phelps imagines himself  at him "God doesn't hate any­ 
and let him in on a few of the  a politician as well. He ran in  me," but I did not.  
other things Phelps does as a  the last Democratic gubernato­ I am forwarding a copy of  
public nuisance.  rial primaries, and lost handily.  Pearson's article to the Topeka  
Fred Phelps is a disbarred  Last summer he decided to run  Capital-Journal, the "Fag Rag"  
lawyer, the founder and pastor of his own little Baptist congre­gation, run from his home. The  in the Democratic race for U.S. Senate because he swore, like McCarthy, to have evidence that  which Phelps so often derides. I think many people in Topeka will be grateful.  With ad, Office of Reg1strar  
congregation consists mainly of his 12-13 children and their families. Their primary ministry  the other canrl idate, Gloria O'Dell, was a lesbian. His cam­paign commercials consisted of  Kyle J. Mead Zahm Hall  misses point of graduation  
is to protest homosexuals.  footage of gay-rights parades,  April 22, 1993  Dear Editor: More importantly, as far as I  
A few blocks from Phelps'  with the caption, "Is this what  As a member of the Univer­am concerned, the tone of the  
sity Community celebrating ad is a very negative one and  
with the class of 1993 their ac­hardly reflects the joy of the  
complishments and joy at entire community related to  
graduation, I was embarrassed commencement. It is a very pa­ 
and saddened to read the ad­ternalistic and condescending  
vertisement from the Office of tone and is the exact opposite of  
the Registrar on commence­the tone of compassion and ex­ 
ment tickets. citement I would hope would be  
taken by the graduates them­ 
Specifically, the ad said: "you selves, if not by those who  
are reminded that com­helped f' t~m on Llteir way.  
mencement tickets are a privi­ 
lege and are given to each Too much during their four  
graduate by the University." years here, undergraduates are  
given the impression that our  
To the contrary, having the main job as staff and farulty is  
members of the class of '93 or to protect ourselves from their  
any class accept the University's wiles, deceits and connivances.  
invitation to admission is a Not true. Our main job is  
privilege for the University. If education, and if the tone of the  
no one were to accept and pay ad is reflective of the job we've  
the substantial fees associated done, we have failed greatly. I  
with admission and matricula­hope that's not the case.  
tion, there would be no Uni­ 
versity. Graduating seniors Su:phen P. Newton, C.S.C.  
well earned their graduat' . Rector, Sorin Hall  
is not a privilege. April 23, 1993  

Policies undermine university Alternative of J-boarJ must remain 
Dear Editor: be acquired. A "university" is Dear Editor: dicial branches, a S• ·>aration inappropriate as well as non­Not unlike his previous con­foremost preparatory in must exist within tht:: dorm to democratic to abolish a studenttributions, Frank Pimentel's function, while administrative As newly appointed members of protect and ensure the rights of institution such as the Judicial comments (The Observer, practices at Notre Dame may Flanner Hall's Judicial Board students. Board without fully consultingApril 22) concerning sexually suggest otherwise. Sexually for the 1993-1994 school year According to Du Lac, "Rectors students. Hall Presidents, exist­
segregated dormitories were segregated dormitories, 
we are concerned with what are strongly urged to use the ing J-Board members and
eagerly read. Frank believes parietals, penalties for returns exactly our duties encompass Hall Judicial Board and to limit Hectors rather than just thethe current administrative from off-campus housing and as appointed student officials. their handling of disciplinary small, residentially detached
approach should be the mandatory meal plan 
Recently this has become a cases to those which are truly members of the Campus Lifemaintained and predicated his combine to create structured popular topic among both serious, or sensitive or involve Council.
supporting discussion on conditions within which the 
students and the Administra­pastoral concerns not appro­Unfortunately, many students
Notre Dame's status as a student's sociological 
tion, with talk formulating priate for a Judicial Board." are unaware of the disciplinary"Roman Catholic university," development becomes stag­about the possible abolition of There seems to be a discrep­alternative of Hall Judicial 
one which "many... have a nant. Based on personal 
student judiciary boards as an ancy as to what exactly defines Boards. Our hope is that stu­hard time accepting." Frank observation, a student's alternative for disciplinary a truly serious or sensitive or dents will acknowledge theirexplicitly accepts the Catholic existence at Notre Dame is measures within dorms. pastoral concern. rights and encourage the active
attributes of Notre Dame. often tantamount to the 
Du Lac states, "Students sub­More often than not, the J­use of a redefined JudicialHowever, after considering my continuation of high school. 
ject to disciplinary action may Board is criticized as being Board within each dorm. 
friend's supporting discussion Perhaps, the administration choose to have their cases con­ineffective and in some cases We encourage the Adminis­in its entirety, it is should permit its students to sidered by the Rector or by the obsolete. This is only because tration to promote the impor­
questionable whether he experience societal reality 
Hall Judicial Board. The Rector we are not given the tance of Hall Judicial Boards 
accepts Notre Dame's within the protective 
shall make the student aware of opportunity to openly prove our rather than to abolish themexistence as a "university." "university" environment, and this option in each disciplinary worth and effectiveness. completely. We look forward toIn my opinion, a emphasize Catholicism as a action." Because of this, we encourage working more closely with our"university" should simulate means to succeed within this We believe that the Judicial dorm Judicial Boards and Hector and promoting the ex­
the experiences its student reality. 
Board is a significant but unex­Rectors to define the type of panded use of students in thepopulation will confront upon ercised branch of the disci­cases that each will hear so that judicial process as valued by
graduation and assist in the Rick Alvarez 
plinary system within each the involvement of a student­the University of Notre Dame.
development of the skills with Law Student dorm. Too many times Rectors conducted hearing can be In turn, we ask other dorm J­which success may thereafter April 22, 1993 
feel the need to discipline stu­practiced more frequently in Boards to actively support our dents themselves without fully disciplinary actions. cause and initiate actions of consulting alternative measures Rather than abolish the Judi­their own for the benefit of all such as those stated in Du Lac. cial Board as an institution we students. To us, J-Board represents a call on the Administration and democratic means by which an the Campus Life Council to ac­Tom Sadowski individual has the choice to be tively and fundamentally re­James Sankovitz judged by his/her peers. form the system, with the help Tim Kusserow 
J-Board acts as a form of of newly appointed members, Dan Cullan "checks and balances" between for next year by granting the Craig Descalzi the Administration and its dis­Judicial Board specific powers Dennis Mackin ciplinary procedures. Just as and enforcement such as those Matt Dahlien there is a separation between presently in Du Lac. We feel Flanner Hall Judicial Board our nation's Legislative and Ju-that it would be completely April 23, 1993 

···-·--------~--------------~­
-------~-~---~­

Accent 
Monday, April 26, 1993 page 9 
"The Fairy Queen" debut 
Students to perform Shakespearean-based play 
By l .ISABETH HEARD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Shakespeare's "A Midsummers Night's Dream" is a play dealing with magic, fairies and hysterical situations revolving around cases of mistaken identity. Now a version of this timeless classic is coming to Notre Dame as the Notre Dame Opera Workshop performs "The Fairy Queen" in Washington Hall Monday, April 26, and Tuesday, April 27, at 8:00 p.m. 
"The Fairy Queen," written by Henry Purcell, is an opera loosely based on Shakespeare's work. "There are 22 singers in the production," said Garry Grice, the director of the production and also director of Indiana Opera North, the local opera company. "It incorporates students in the music department and other students who are singers." 
This is only the second for the Notre Dame Opera Workshop. Last year, the workshop per­formed "Dido and Aeneas" and Mozart's "The Impresario." Both productions were well received by the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. "Last year was a success," said Rebekah Hill, a second year graduate student in the music department and pianist for "The Fairy Queen." "We want to make it even better this year." 
The workshop began as a class offered by the music department. "It helps to train those interested in a vocal music career," said Grice. Hill was working with Grice at Indiana Opera North as a rehearsal pianist when he asked her if she wanted to be involved in the production. "I have always been interested in music," said Hill. "I've been playing the piano for 16 years. I have an accompanying concentration, which means that I work with singers. I eventually want to work with singers as a vocal coach and pianist." 
The students work for an aver­age of five to six hours a week in preparation for the production "which is actually not much compared to a professional production," said Hill. 
'It's nice to see people who are not music majors get involved.' 
-Rebekah Hill 
Both graduate and undergraduate students participate in "The Fairy Queen." "They have to be able to sing pretty well," said Grice. "They are people who sing in clubs like the Glee Club, Shenanigans and Liturgical Choir. They just have to show interest." 
Jeff Graham, a sophomore English and communications major is a member of the chorus in "The Fairy Queen." "I also have a little solo," he said. "It's fun. It's nice to get away from everything else and do just that." 
Hill agrees that involvement with the production can be a good experience for people who are not music majors. "It's nice to see people who are not music majors get involved," said Hill. "You get the chance to see others who are interested in opera." 
The music department is one of the smallest departments, and is generally tailored to graduate students. "There are 22 students," said Hill. "It can be bad sometimes, but it is also good because you get a lot of attention from teachers." 
Though working with limited staging and piano accompani­ment, The Opera Workshop pro­vides the students with an excel­lent opportunity to obtain first hand experience in all aspects of an opera production. They also provide the audience with delightful operas often passed over by larger companies. 
The members of "The Fairy Queen" are expecting a good performance. "I think it will go over well," said Hill. "It's not your typical opera. It's like a play within a play. There is good singing, action on stage, and costumes." 
"It should go well," said Gra­ham. "There are a lot of talented people who work well together." 
"It combines Italian traveling theater as well as Shakespearean theater," said Hill. "The production is in English so everyone will be able to understand what is going on. It should be good." 
Tickets for "The Fairy Queen" are $5 for adults and $2 for stu­dents and senior citizens. They may be purchased at the LaFor­tune Student Center Box Office or by calling 631-8128. 

Outstanding senior makes her mark 
By ALEX MONTOYA 
Accent Staff Writer 
Marta Roemer is on an emotional roller-coaster. 
On one hand she feels honored to be this year's recipient of the John P. Niland Senior Service Award, given annually to a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student for their outstanding commitment to the Big Brothers/ Big Sisters Program. On the other hand she is heartbroken over the fact that the little girl she has worked with the past two years was suddenly taken to Missouri last week, and the youngster's mother won't allow Marta to contact her. 
"She means so much to me," says the Lyons Hall RA ,"I wanted this award to be for the both of us because I've actually been fortunate to work with such a special person." 
Caseworkers for the St. Joseph County chapter of the program gave the award to Roemer in recognition of her work with Ann Zeigert, a nine-year old whom 
' Marta met two years ago. Recipients of the award, named after a student volunteer who died in a drunk driving accident, must meet a criteria which includes "continuity in maintaining the relationship over vacations and breaks and extraordinary efforts and sacrifices with the child." Roemer found herself in the position of making an "extraordinary effort" after developing a close relationship with Ann. "I had to report to Child Protective Services ( CPS ) that there had been some sexual abuse in the family," said Hoerner. Caseworkers supported Hoerner for becoming more involved than an average volunteer might, especially after hearing the terrible childhood Ann has endured. Ann's biological parents were so heavily involved with drugs that Ann 
was illegally adopted by her current mother. Unfortunately this mom was also involved in drugs and led an unstable life that included a series of short relationships with various boyfriends. 
According to what Ann revealed to Marta, one of the boyfriends sexually abused her when she was around five and the horrible memories have never left her. While Ann's emotional state has been shaken, so has her academic one. She is described by Marta as "extremely bright " but had to skip a grade due to poor school performances. This can also 
"be traced to the fact that her current mom does not have an education past the 7th grade and does not encourage Ann to do well in school. 

Last July Marta decided she needed to do something. Two years of roller­skating and coloring with Ann had been what she calls a "wonderful experience" but it was hard knowing what the 65 lb. , almond-brown eyed little girl was facing at home. Finally she placed a call to a CPS hotline and spoke on the condition of anonymity. After speaking with three different individuals Marta was told CPS would pay a visit to Ann's house. 
"They visited her mom, but it was really just a scare visit, " she said, " which frustrated me. But it's tough for the agency to really do anything but pay a scare visit when they get tons of phone calls like this everyday." 
The CPS officials told Ann's mother to "shape up" but Ann said things never really improved. Subsequently, the mother figured that it was Marta who made the phone call because she was the only one Ann had close contact with. For the next seven months the mom accused Marta of trying to separate her and Ann, which made Ann slightly apprehensive around her Big Sister. 
"That hurt because it took the entire winter to regain Ann's trust," said the senior Psychology major. "This is a little girl I love so much for making me grow just by watching her enjoy the simple pleasures of childhood." 
Recently, Marta had been basking in the success of receiving post-graduate service offers from the Jesuit Volunteer Corps and Boston City Year among other groups. She had been enjoying the increasingly warm temperatures in her native South Bend until last week. That's when she was hit with a wickedly cold chill. 
"I called her mom's boyfriend's house to remind them that I was coming to pick Ann up for an afternoon recreational activity. He hesitated, then told me that they had just split up and the mom decided to suddenly pack up and head for Missouri." After absorbing that painful news Marta got both a phone number and address where Ann could be reached in Missouri. However, neither numerous calls nor a letter has been answered. All Marta can do is wait, pray, and not give up hope. She does not know who she can contact who would ensure both Ann's safety, as well as get her back in touch with her Big Sister. · 
For now she continues to cherish the award, but desperately wants to share it with Ann. "She's a beautiful little girl and has made everything completely worthwhile. I love her." 
--------------~--------------­
page 10 The Observer Monday, April 26, 1993 
Women·s track impresses at Drake 
By MIKE NORBUT 400 meter hurdles behind Al­Riley finished sixth and ninth, Sports Writer abama senior Michelle Morgan. respectively, in the race. "It was really exciting." 
Over 14,000 exuberant fans Aside from Peterson and Su­The final Irish runner to com­gathered at the Jim Duncan san Maher, who took ninth in pete this past weekend was Track this past weekend to the seven-event heptathalon, Emily Husted, who finished fif­watch the 84th Annual Drake the Irish primarily sent distance teenth in the 1500 meter run, a relays, held in Des Moines, runners to the meet. race that was dominated by Iowa. Eva Flood took ninth and Wisconsin runners Clare Eich­
Though much of th{l spotlight Kristi Kramer twelfth in the ner and Sarah Renk, who took was placed on the size of the 10,000 meter run, a race that first and third, respectively. 
Blue-gold 
continued from page 16 
Both defenses had an easy time finding their way into the offensive backfields. Junior defensive tackle Bryant Young led the way for the Gold with ten tackles, earning defensive MVP honors. freshman linebacker Renaldo Wynn led the Blue with 14 tackles. 
"I thought the defense played well," said Young. "It is difficult to stop our offense once they get going, so it is important to keep them off balance." 
The game marked the end of an eventful spring practice for the Irish. 
"I saw some good things this spring," said head coach Lou Holtz. "There were very few disappointments and a lot of pleasant surprises." 

meet, the Notre Dame women's track team competed against 300 other teams to finish with an impressionable showing. 
"The whole team did really well," said freshman Erica Peterson, who had her best time of the year, 58.97, in route to a second place finish in the was won by Cheri Triner of Bowling Green with a time of 
34:55.09. Agnes Eppers of Wisconsin took second. 
In the 5000 meter run, Nike South runner Andrea Johnson edged out Nike North runner Cassie McWilliam for the vic­tory. Stefanie Jensen and Sarah Karen Glerum, an amateur from Ames, Iowa, split the tan­dem with a second place finish. 
Upcoming scheduled events for the Irish include the Toledo Invitational next weekend and the National Invitational, held in Indianapolis May 8. 
Conserve Energy 
The Observer accepts ctassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepatd. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
TYPING 256-6657 
Kim and Meg rock the world! 
I am a Ugandan student aged 20 
years by the name of Kaklmda 
Robert, and I want some pen 
friends from USA. 
KAKIMDA ROBERT 
clo GN SEBUFU 
REDO BARN 
POBOX 1610 
MASAKA 
UGANDA 
Ill SENIORS Ill Seniors who are conducting service work next year should sign up for the VOLUNTEER send-off, Saturday, May 15. Please sign-up at the esc between April15-d. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST-PAIR OF GLASSES 
In a dark leather case , Feb 26 
around Cushing Hall area. 
PLEASEI Help me have them 
before the summer. I don't have $for 
new ones! 
Any Info please call X4367 
SUZANA 
LOST LOST LOST Lost MO afternoon either In front of stadium (E side) or in front of Library (S side, TO. J) :DIGITAL DIARY, Casio SF 4000, of personal value to me, please call: x6609 (am) or 273-8938 (pm) (Volker) 
•Lost at Senior Formal in Chicago• 1 roll of completed film with 2 months of pictures • EXTREME sentimental value ­If found, PLEASE call Mary at 46191 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­Make money teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­$4,000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other benefits! No previous training or teaching certificate required. For International Employment program, call the International Employment Group: (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $600+/week in canneries or $4000+/month on fishing boats. Free transportation! Room & Board I Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call 1-206­545-4155 ext.A5584 
We need a 3rd roommate for our 
summer aptlll(rent will be lowj 
OakHill. Jeannie 273-9406 Corle 
x2358 
Need responsible student with car to provide summer care for 3-4 kids in Hinsdale, IL. M-F 7:30-6:00. Includes driving to soccer, ballet, etc. and afternoons at village pool. Salary negotiable. 708-789-1686, Marybeth Dougherty 
'79. 
I REALLY NEED A FOUR-MAN LOFT; IF YOU HAVE ONE YOU'D LIKE TO SELL TO ME, PLEASE CALL X3301 AND ASK FOR RICH 
NO PROFESSOR AND GRAD 
STUDENT NEED SITTER(S) 
FOR 2 CHILDREN, 1 1/2 AND 
3 1/2 YRS OLD, FOR 93-94 
SCHOOL YR. IN OUR HOME, 
WHILE WE ARE WORKING 
THERE. 1Q-30 HRS/WK, 
$5.50/HR. CALL ANGELA OR 
MICHAEL, 233-6901 OR 
631-7384. 
50,000,000 Babies 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn $2000+/month + world travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career 
employment available. No 
experience necessary. For 
employment program call 1-206­
634-0468 ext.C5584 
ROOMATES NEEDED, SUMMER AND NEXT YEAR. PLEASE CALL 289-9353 & LEAVE A MESSAGE. 
Wanted: Men named BOB for ritualistic worshipping purposes. Will need to attend social gathering on Wed. April 28, between 7 pm and midnight. Robs, Roberts, and Bobbys need not apply. Contact Maria at x480911111111 
FOR RENT 
SUMMER SUBLET TURTLE CliiEEK TOWNHOUSE 
Interested? Call 634-3938 
Turtle Creek townhouse 6/1-mid-Aug. Furnished -$400/mo 
Matt 634-3332. 
Looking to subl!lt this summer? 
Contact x 1505 about space 
at Turtle Creek. 
3-5 person furnished house, sec system, wash/dry, beach V-ball. prime location. $500. 109 N. St. Peter, 233-9947. 
2 ROOMS W/QUEEN BEDS AVAIL. GRAD WKEND.NICELY DECOR. 3 MIN. TO CAMPUS. ADULTS OVER 30 PREF. $170/WKEND/ROOM. 277-8340. 
ROOM FOR RENT. Privacy, Uti!. incl., Must see, Male preferred, ph 291-9093 
Don't stay on-campus this summer-SUB-LEASE our 2-bdrm. apt. at CASTLE POINT! 
Enjoy air-conditioning, a pool, and REDUCED RENT!! 
CALL NOW 4-4673 
1 blk from NO Apts. Safe, affordable, furnished apts. At 755 South Bend Ave.: STUDIO: $215 
1-BDRM: $245 2-BDRM: $330 
At 607 E. Corby: 1 BDRM: $265 
At 519 E. Corby: 2 BDRM: $280 
SUMMER OR FALL. Dep. & References. 1-800-582-9320. 
SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. GREAT RATES! AVAIL. NOW.SUMMER & FALL.272-6306 
..Students.. 
Now renting 1300 sq It condos at College Park Condominiums. All units include: -Security systems, -Hard wood floors, -All appliances, -Washer & dryer in unit, -Large balconies, -Gas utilities. -Free covered parking, -2 large bedrooms, -2 full bathrooms. 
-Only 1/4 mile from door of Hesburgh library. For appt. -272-0691 or see Off­Campus Housing office. 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 5 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS. 272-0615. 
SUBLETTING 1 room in a 2 Bdrm Apt 4 summer. Exc Cond, Central AC, Walk to campus.$150/mo. 277­9074 
FOR SALE 

LIVING OFF-CAMPUS? NEED FURNITURE? WE HAVE IT ALL!! CALL 273-2810 
87 Chevy Nova for sale by senior who is moving to NYC and can't afford to keep it there. Excellent shape, air cond. pull out stereo, 40. $3000 or b.o.. Call Mike at 271­0157. 
SALE SALE SALE SALE great stereo and bed for sale at a very very good price call edward at 271-1365 
APARTMENT SALE sofa-sleeper, double beds, dressers, end-tables, kitchen table, desk, TV /stereo stand ..priced to sell .. call mark@ 271-1578 
FURNISH YOUR OFF CAMPUS APT. II 
Entire living room and dining room set for sale. 
Call Dave at 277-8660. Leave a message. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? Bedroom Furniture for sale. Call Karen 271-7926 
Builders Square Loft for sale Excellent Condition Best Offer X2856 
New double bed, couch set, table, etc. Call Alicia at 272-3638. 
MOVING OFF-CAMPUS? 
Matching dresser, desk, bkcase, bed and mirror must be sold. Call Leslie at273-2661. 
Condo-Walk to Notre Dame! I 3 Bedroom, 2 Bath. Large Unit. $79,900. The Prudential Joseph Dunfee Realtors-Kay Norem 299-0110 or 235-3589. 
WEDDING GOWN, 
"DEMETRIOS", SIZE 6. GORGIOUS. NEVER WORN. $500. 271-5632. 
For Sale, 1 couch, 1 bunk bed 
[2 mattresses incl.] cheap ! 
call 273 -2941 ask for Rob 
TICKETS 
Help!Help!Help! I need grad tickets! If you have extra call Joe @ 277­4273. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 
GRADUATION TICKETS II 
Gram and Gramp are coming 
and I need 2 tix. Please call 
Kristin at 4-4272 if you have 
any extras, and name your 
price. 
I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR SMC GRADUATION( IN CASE OF RAIN). PLEASE CALL ROBIN X4399. 
Like 5000 others, I too NEED 
GRAD TIX I! But I' m a swell 
guy, so call KJ @ 273-2958 
One way tkt from South Bend to 
Newark,NJ on May 17:$100 
or best offer. Call 289-4278. 
Xtra grad tix 
Call Val 273-9092 
I NEED 1 RETURN FLIGHT FROM SARASOTA OR TAMPA TO SOUTH BEND OR CHICAGO ON MAY 23 CALL RICH, 631-5370 
1 WY-TICKET; FEMALE 
MAY 18, S.BND-TAMPA 
$125 OBO FRANK 634-4539 
I need extra graduation tix! 
Please· call Kathryn at x2999 
HELP I If you have any extra 
GRADUATION TICKETS, please call 273-2941 ask for Rob 
PERSONAL 
Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. 
Adopt: we are truly loving couple who can bring love and happiness to your white newborn. We offer financial security and a great future in our oceanside home. Medical/legal expenses covered. 1­800-438-6599 eves. 
ATTN: SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS 
$5.50 Haircuts 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
1523 Lincolnway West 
South Bend. IN 
233-4767 
Whose favorite Bookstore Basketball team name is "Nude Waterskiers For Christ"? Find out, and read other favorites in: Look Out For The Manhole Cover, available now in the bookstore! 
THE NOTRE DAME DEBATE TEAM is currently accepting applications for a part-time debate coach. If interested, send a resume, two letters of recommendation, and a list of previous debate achievements to the Vice President of Student Affairs University of Notre Dame 315 Main Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 
DEADLINE: May 1. 
Doctor and teacher will make 
dreams for your baby come true. 
Full-time parenting. Best of the city; 
summers by the beach. Your baby 
rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace 
in winter, and by ocean waves in 
summer. Art, music. the best 
education, endless love. Call 
Franny or Stephen collect. 
(212) 369-2597. 
••goWgoWgoWgolf•golf•goW· 
$"$•$.$'$'$"$•$•$•$•$·$·$· 
WIN PRIZES! Sign up for the TODD BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF TOURNAMENT 
Saturday, May 8, 1993 $1 0 Student entrance fee $35 Staff/Public entrance fee 
Sign ups at the LaFortune 
Information Desk, the Pro 
Shop(behind the Rock), or with a 
Dorm representative 
ENTER NOW! 
..other donations accepted 
and appreciated 
..all proceeds to defer medical 
costs for Todd) 
$.$.$"$.$'$'$.$"$"$"$"$"$" 
••golf" golf• golf•goll" golf" golf" 
.................................... 
APRIL 28-NEXT WEDNESDAY­IS THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER. 
THERE WILL BE A SENIOR 
COMMENCEMENT ISSUE ON 
FRIDAY, MAY 14. 
If you are moving to D.C. permanently, join the CLUB II (The N.D. alumni club of D.C. that is!) Information packets with all you ever wanted to know about life in 
D.C. are available at the LaFortune Info desk, the alumni office, career and placement, and the government dept. To join the club, call Elsie Kozak Crawford, '90, 202-332-4943. Membership FREEII 
WASHINGTON D.C. CLUB 
BAGGAGE TRUCK HOME 
LOADING TIMES 
THURSDAY -MAY 6 
FRIDAY-MAY 7 
(12:00 P.M.-5:00P.M.) 
N. QUAD-STEPAN COURTS 
S. QUAD-LYONS COURTS ???????QUESTIONS?????? CALL PAT CADY(#3580) 
If U Wouldnt Treat Me Like An 
Idiot Maybe I'd Say 
Something lntelligent-92/3 Quotes 
11.Who spiked her fruitloops dave 10.Anyone going to U2? dave 9.1've died and gone to Indiana dave 
8.R those condoms? no theyre ASPRIN dave 7.Can I just say ... dave 
6.1 could stay like this forever 5.Eddy-Truman-Niel 4.Dont turn around or you'll have to marry me 3.Kaberk dave 2.Damn carpet! dave 1.Sieep w/ the angels ann roni di we've been thru some hard times but I just had 2 say thanx 4 making this yr so great luv stash 
In search of Graduation Tickets, please call Jim 
at 277-9924 Prehistoric-
Tell me who I should smile at 
-Flattered 
HEY KIDSII 
TODD BROSKI NIGHT AT BRIDGET'S-TUESDAY APRIL 2711 
$2 DONATION AT THE DOOR 
GOES TO DEFER TODD'S 
MEDICAL COSTS 
••FREE RAFFLE TICKET WITH 
DONATION'.. 
T-SHIRTS, HATS AND OTHER 
GREAT BRIDGET'S STUFF WILL 
BE RAFFLED!! 
DOORS OPEN AT 8pm 
(must be 21) 
HAVE A GREAT TIME HELPING 
OUTTODDI! 
LOOKING FOR 1-3 PEOPLE 
WHO NEED RIDE TO DALLAS 
MAY 7 OR 8 CALL 
STEPHANIE AT X4928 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 in LaFortune Student Center QUALITY COPIES as low as 3¢ each OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD 
BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF 
TOURNAMENT!!! 
SATURDAY MAY 8 OPEN TO ALL 
SIGN UP AT THE PRO SHOP IN 
BACK OF THE ROCK OR WITH 
YOUR DORM REP 
GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS!! 
On your way to D.C.? Interning on the Hill? Graduating into the real world? Be sure to attend the NO Alumni Club of D.C.'s summer welcome bash and minor league baseball game on June 191 For more info, call Lisa Kelly. '91, 301­460-3090. 
MARKETING CLUB 
END OF THE YEAR 
PARTY Wed. April 28 at 4:30 Senior Bar All Marketing Majors 
Welcome 
pat 
Hey Polly! A.K.A. Podewo your finally 20 Happy B-day Love, Dawn. Dani, & Gloria 
We Marched on Washington! Did you see us? It was a blast. and nothing will ever be the same. 
PITT CLUB STILL needs someone to organize luggage truck or it will not be available-call 4828 if interested 
,...., 

Monday, April 26, 1993 The Observer page 11 
Irish stars cash in at NFL draft ~M.9~.. Cleads nice showing 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Bettis seemed happy to be Demetrius DuBose and Reggie 
······ ··.··. at Drake Relays
Sports Editor headed to Los Angeles and also Brooks, projected by some to 
The NFL Draft had an Irish flair to it Sunday, as four Notre Dame players were selected in the first round, 
and a total of seven when the first day selec­tions were complete. 
Quarterback Rick Mirer was the first chosen, as the Seattle 

Seahawks grabbed the three-year starter with the second pick overall. The New England Patriots had the first pick overall, and were 
believed to be interested in Mirer. But the Pats chose Washington State signal-caller 
Drew Bledsoe over Mirer. 
"I didn't really prefer one (team) over the other, but to be honest, I'd rather live on the west coast than east. I've never been a big fan of the East Coast," said Mirer. 
Mirer will compete with 1991 first-round selection Dan McGuire and Kelly Stouffer for the starting job. 
Eight picks after Mirer the Los Angeles Rams made Jerome Bettis their first selec­tion. The Rams were believed to be interested in Georgia running back Garrison Hearst, but when he went to Phoenix with the third pick they took Bettis. 
Coach Chuck Knox's ground­oriented offense should fit Bet­tis perfectly, and he will also add another target to quarter­back Jim Everett's arsenal out of the backfield. 
with his decision to enter the draft after his junior season. 
"I had to do what was right for me and my family, and coming out early was the best move at this time," said Bettis. 
The second Notre Dame player to forego his senior year and enter the draft was also the next Irish player selected. Cornerback Tom Carter was taken with the 16th pick by the Washington Redskins in an ef­fort to sore up an secondary weakened by free agency and age. 
Carter will likely take over the right cornerback spot vacated by Martin Mayhew, who left via free agency. Carter was unavailable for comment be­cause he left for Washington immediately after hearing of his selection, but his mother ex­pressed joy over her son's new team. 
"We are all very happy that Tom is going to Washington," she said. "It is a good team, and Washington is a great city. This has been a wonderful day for us." 
Tight end Irv Smith lasted until the 20th pick to New Or­leans. Smith is almost assured a spot in the starting lineup as the Saints only other legitimate contender for the job is injury­prone veteran John Tice. 
"I think the reason they drafted me is because I can participate," said Smith. "I don't know if I will come right in and start, but I will contribute." 
The four Notre Dame players selected in round one falls one short of tying the record for first round picks from one col­lege, set by USC in 1968. 
join their teammates in round one, had to wait until the second round before hearing their name called. 
DuBose went with the fifth pick in the round, (34th overall) to Tampa Bay. The Bucs went for defense with their first pick (6th overall) in defensive end Eric Curry from Alabama and in DuBose got another talented rookie to help strengthen their defense. 
DuBose could get an opportu­nity to remain at inside linebacker, as many clubs thought he would be moved to OLB. Tampa Bay had a platoon system at MLB with Calvin Tig­gle and Reggie Burnette split­ting time with very little impact. 
Brooks joined Carter in Wash­ington after the Redskins made him the 45th overall choice. Brooks will contend with Ricky Ervins and Earnest Hyner for the tailback slot. 
The final Notre Dame player taken in the first day of drafting was defensive end Devon Mc­Donald. The Indianapolis Colts selected him with the ninth pick in the fourth round (1 07 overall). He will join former Notre Dame teammates Rodney Culver and Anthony Johnson, both members of the Colts' backfield. 
The remaining four rounds of the draft will be conducted today, with a few Notre Dame players likely to hear their names called. 
Punter Craig Hentrich, and offensive lineman Lindsay Knapp and Justin Hall are all projected to go in today's selection process. 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writ~r 
the distance medley relay with a time of 10:03.61. The team included John Coyle and Keith O'Brien. In the 4X1600 meter, Notre Dame finished fifth with a time of 16:59.99. 
ln the field events at the Hillsdale Invitational the Irish also had strong showings. 
. "We did pretty well,n said ..$.,"'Jjeld events coach Scott 
.~i·E'. "\V'msor. ;q·
;.:m.r Stuart Tyrier placed second in the discus with a thtow of 168 feet. r;•.#.."Stuart's finally getting over 
''th. 'h .... ··d w· ··.· "H
'~fl; e ump,>sai 1nso.r. e and JohnSmerek arl:l both throwing a lot better." "'' 
·~· Smerek placed fourth in the 'scuss "With a throw Qf 156' 
Don't Drink and Drive 
Series 


r-----~-----~ ~ --------~----­
page 12 The Observer Monday, April 26, 1993 
Champs 
conti'!ued from page 16 
Battling under the basket for the tournament's last point, Jones was fouled and sent to the line. With the rambunctious audience pouring both cheers and jeers on to the court, Jones bricked his only free-throw at­tempt of the day ofT the front of the rim. 
Jones was given a second chance to claim the champi­onship only minutes later when one of his teammates managed to pull down the offensive re­bound and fire it back out to him to the right of the top of the key. Jones faded away and sank the game-winning shot from just outside the three-point line. 
The crowd erupted as the five members of Tequila White Lighting exalted their long­awaited championship. 
"I think I'll be seeing that shot for a few days," said Bookstore Most Valuable Player Andy Curoe, who along with Rolwing led Malicious with six points. "We'll be rethinking every play for a few days." 
"It was ten competitors, and 

4.HI:l.C1<:!.13.C1.n.9e.r.L........... 3H-A-R-D-K-O-R-E 
···············································~ 
21-13 
~--~?-~i~ ..1L....................... !.~~.?.~.V..~~~-~ ..?.!.~~~--~~,me 
21-15 2..Te.Qv.il.a. Whit.e .l...i_g/:ltni . 
The Observer/Christo her Mullins 
NEED HELP MOVING HOME ? 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
will be ON CAMPUS to help you 
ship your things 
ATTHESTEPANCOURTS: 
May 3 -8 1 0 AM -5 PM May 13 -15 NOON -5 PM May17 10AM-3PM 
ATTHELYONSCOURTS: 
May 5-8 10 AM-5 PM 
* FREE PICKUP * 
Call 277-6245 For Details 
And Dorm Schedule. 

Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venrure Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun ll-5 
Tequila White Lightning XII 
24-221 
Corby's II 

MovE 
all ten wanted to win," said Ratigan, who scored five times. ''I'm glad we're the five who did. I never felt like we wouldn't 
win." 

"It was a great game," Mali­cious captain Ken Boehner said. "We played hard, but they were a better team." 
"I think we had one of our better games," said Curoe. "They just played a little bet­ter." 
"Each time we hit a hoop we kind of looked into each other's eyes and we knew we wanted it," said Tequila captain Mike MacKinnon. 
"Those guys are a class act," said Tequila stand-out Shannon Cullinan of Malicious Prosecu­tion. "They're five great bas­ketball players." 
Cullinan was named Mr. Bookstore after the game, an honor which his brother Sean received five years ago. "Mr. Bookstore is nice," he said, "but the tournament, winning it all, means everything." 
Tequila White Lightning has won more games over the past four years than any other Bookstore team, going 34-3. 
With all five members of Te­quila graduating, it appears that this will be the last of a long line of winning teams. "As far as anyone can see," said MacKinnon, "this is the last year." 
"This is a picture perfect end­ing," said Bookstore Head Commissioner Andy Sinn. "This tournament was the bright spot to a typically cloudy South Bend spring." 
UP To 
Maple -Lane Apartments 
We offer: 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments ( 4 apartments per building) 

• 
Locked entry with intercom system 

• 
Full~size washer and dryer for each apartment 

• 
Pool and clubhouse facilities 

•6 
minutes from campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 


JB31l'll!ro! am 1tlfia~ &~ ~oll' $)Sij @mf v@l!llll' ~all'~ll J]]lcrJ>J]l1tlfi~~ Jl'~J]l\lg 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 
277.-3731 
Located at Cleveland and Bendix 
------------------~ 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXII 
Honors and Awards 
1st Team  3rd Team  
Chris Garlitz  Corby's II  Nick Preservati  
Steve Clar  Hawk Will ...  Ryan Matthys  
Brian Ratigan  Tequila ...  Rick Rolwing  
Matt Fitz  Fighting Kemals  Tim Frank  
Eric Jones  Tequila ...  Dan Pier  
2nd Team  All Holtz Team  
Owen Smith  Ebony Side ...  Lindsay Knapp  
Rick Toohey  NO's Most Wanted Mark Zataveski  

Bryan Corbett Dawgs in Heat Ill Brian Hamilton Ken McKinney Tequila ... Bobby Taylor Ken Boehner Malicious.... Renaldo Wynn 
Ironman Award 
Post Up, Wide Open .. . The More We Win .... Malicious Prosecution Hawk Will Never Die Hot Grits a Flyin' 
Pale Riders Corby's II Head Bangers 
Head Bangers Coming from Behind 

Ken Middleton Head Bangers 
Hatchet Award Tom Gorman Malicious Prosecution 
Hoosier Award LaRon Moore Ebony Side of the Dome 
Mr. Bookstore Shannon Cullinan Tequila White Lightning 
Bookstore MVP Andy Curoe Malicious Prosecution 

The University oC Notre Dame Dcpartmcnl or Music 
TilE NOTRE DAME OPERA WORKSHOP PRESENTS 
7k JmY!JI f;!tJIJm/0 
6y 9lmry {j!ur"U !Jarry fjriee, rJJirrctor 
Monday and Tuesday April 26 and 27, 1993 8:00p.m. 
Washington Hall 
Ticket~: l.nFortune Student Center Dox Office $S~Adults, $2-Students/Senior Citizens !'hone: 631-8128 
Plan Now for Your Graduation Party ... or Any Party for That Matter! 
A.rt,§.,:,~~~~IMWPIE: Blacst Gode~,.~~ 1Q!!g 
cater it with a  rresh sliced 6' BLIMPlE  ay Ill a  row  the bread ospeclally ror you so  
Blast sub sandwich which reeds 40-50  please place your order at least  
people. We'll Make it your way with all  24 hours in advance.  

r--------------------------------------------------, 
~----------------------------------6fuet--------------------------------~ 

$5.00 off a 3' or 6'  
BLIMPIE® Blast  
Please Place your order 24 hours in advance.  
Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if altered  
or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per  
customer per visit. Customer must pay sales tax due. Not good  
in combination with any other offer. Cash Value 1/101J of 1¢. Offer good at Ironwood Plaza North, S.R. 23 and Ironwood.  Ironwood Plaza North -S.R. 23 and Ironwood Phone: 273-2234  

L--------------------------------------------------~ 
----------------------------~-----------------------------------------~~------~-------------.------~----------------~------------~ 
Monday, April 26, 1993 
Irish baseball loses two of three to Evansville 

By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
All too frequently in baseball it is said, pitching is 99 percent of the game. The 24th­ranked Notre Dame baseball team (25-10) proved that 
~ platitude right this weekend as the Irish dropped two of three to ,I' Evansville. 
On Friday 
night, Dave Greg Layson Sinnes (5-1) baffled the Aces throwing a one-hit complete game for the 6-0 win. In the shutout, the righthander struck out five while only walking one. 
The Irish batters came through at the plate with sec­ond baseman Greg Layson go­ing 2 for 4 and scoring twice and right-fielder Eric Danapilis going 2 for 3 with one run batted in. First baseman Ryan Topham went 1 for 4 with an RBI while shortstop Robbie Kent knocked in two runs on a home run off of Evansville starter Greg Willming (6-2). 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead, scoring a run in the first and then picking up two in the third and three in the sixth. 
In Saturday's 11-3 win, how­ever, the Aces had the number of the recently untouchable Tom Price, tagging the left­bander for six runs in 3 1/3 in­nings on the mound including four runs in the first inning. 
Price (6-2) gave up six hits and two walks while only striking out one. Tim Kraus came to the mound in relief in the third and gave up five runs on three hits. Matt Elpers (4-1) was the winner for Evansville in a complete game performance. 
The Irish bats were working again with nine hits in the game, but Evansville made more use of their 10 hits and their opportunities. The Aces' Pat Schultz went 3 for 3 with three runs batted in while Marty Watson went 2 for 4 with four RBis. 
For Notre Dame, Eddie Hartwell went 2 for 3 with a double and a RBI while Topham and DeSensi went 2 for 4 with DeSensi hitting his ninth homer of the year. Rowan Richards (1 for 2) also drove in a run. 
On Sunday, Evansville's Chris Helfrich controlled the rain shortened game, which was considered official even though it only lasted 4 1/3 innings, and took the 3-0 victory. Helfrich (6-0) had allowed only one hit and struck out three when the game was called. 
Hartwell was the only Irish hitter to register a hit off the Evansville starter while the Aces notched three runs on five hits off Irish starter Chris Michalak. 
Evansville picked up single runs in the first, third and fourth innings. 
The Irish are now 15-3 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference while Evansville lifted their conference record to 9-6. 
New Course 
Now available for registration 
Attention: 
English Majors/Gender Studies Students 
(Also open to non-English/Gender Studies majors) 
5187 ENGL 41 ZE 
Feminist Readings: Theory and Practice Th 1:15-2:30 
A new course in feminist theories and their applications to literary texts. Taught by Minow-Pinkey visiting from the University of Lancaster, UK. 
ental Units 
•1 
I 4 Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms 

•2 
Bathrooms 


The Observer page 13 
Anthony Travel cruises to title 

By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Led by tournament MVP Sandy Botham's eleven points, number-two seed Anthony Travel crushed four seed Kiss of Finesse 21-13 in the 1993 Women's Bookstore Basketball Tournament. 
Anthony Travel, which features the play Notre Dame's women s basketball coach Muffet 


McGraw and Sandy her two assis-Botham tants Botham and Sara Liebscher, relied on its powerful inside play to knock off the talented, play-ground style Kiss of Finesse. 
Kiss of Finesse captain Coma­lila Haysbert, who started for Notre Dame's women's team last year, played to her full po­tential in the championship by scoring nine points through a barrage of forceful drives to the net and jump shots from three­point land. 
The play of Haysbert was not enough, however, because the fierce defensive pressure of Anthony Travel shut down the rest of the team. 
"We all played really well," said Botham. "It was a total team effort." 
"They were just a really good team," said Haysbert. "We did what we could. 
"It was just as competitive playing in this as it was playing in Division I," she added. "It's nothing like playing play­ground ball." 
Kiss of Finesse had a difficult road to the championship game. It first had to knock off the heavily favored top seed Cactus Jack's Spicy Jalapenas. Although Cactus Jack's featured 
.. ~..B.in9..MY.. 6~J.I~......~.--·-·····-···~3 Rin M 
21 13 

..9...Y9'-:J...Pc::m.:LH.c:lY.~J?..c:i.11~... 
7.Y9.. Yo!-J..Kn9w...M~---··········~ 21 -1 6 
?..A.IJ~b.C?..IJY..Tr.c:tY~!................... 
The Observer/Christo her Mullins 
...............Q .......Y. 
2 ..Ao.th91JY.. 
Dohrmann 
continued from page 16 
line in the first half's closing minutes behind two perfectly thrown balls to Derrick Mayes. After such a performance and a strong spring, why is Holtz so reluctant to name him the starter? 
The obvious answer is that Holtz doesn't want McDougal to stop competing, to relieve him of the pressure that his job is on the line every snap. The presence of Failla can only make him better, pushing him harder to improve his game. 
Another reason might be Ron Powlus. No one really knows how good he is at the stage in his career. He may need some seasoning, that a year behind 
ow Availa 
•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 

•Covered 
Parking 

•Security 
System 


•Large Balconies CALL Now FOR APPOINTMENTS 
272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 per month 
a very diverse offensive attack, Kiss of Finesse buckled down and earned a 21-15 victory. 
Anthony Travel also had to overcome mountainous obsta­cles en route to the finals. Both McGraw and Botham missed the Final Eight and Final Four games on Friday and Saturday because they were working out of town. 
Liebscher, who was named Miss Bookstore, rose to the oc­casion and led the squad to vic­tories over three seed Ring My Belle and seven seed Ya You Know Me. Ring My Belle, a solid defensive team which liked to run the break, was led by strong inside play of two six foot ex-St. Mary's basketball players. 
"It's great," Botham said of the championship, "especially . because we (McGraw and Botham) were gone. Sara and the rest of the crew really pulled it out." 
FINALS WOMEN'S 
McDougal will bring. 
But suppose he is ready, suppose that the comparisons to Dan Marino are right on line. Holtz wants the best player on the field, and if Powlus is just that, then by not naming McDougal now, he is making it that much easier for Powlus to step in come fall. 
"I didn't see anything from Powlus today that impressed me," said Holtz, when asked about the freshman quarter­back's chances in the fall, "but by the same token, he didn't do anything to hurt his chances either." 
Which leaves us only to speculate what the fall will bring. 
London $!69* Paris $!65* Madrid $339* Rome $345* Athens $395* 
•faresareeachw"ffromChicagobasedonaroundtrip purchase. Taxes not included and restrictions apply. Call for other worldwide destinations, both one wey and roundtrip.
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St., 2nd floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951·0585 
Call for your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 
.---------------------------_.----------------------------~~----------------------------~----------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer 
Lacrosse hammers Ohio State 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame lacrosse team went on the road this weekend for the first of two key games, and came away with an 11-7 victory· over the Ohio State Buckeyes (7-5) on Saturday. The win puts the Irish, now 10-2, one game closer to making the NCAA tournament via the Midwest region's automatic bid. 
Notre Dame's win, however, did not allow them to move up 
USILA Lacrosse 
Rankings
Rank Team 1993 Record 
1 North Carolina 11-1 2 Princeton 9-1 3 Syracuse 7-2 3 Johns Hopkins 8-2 5 Brown 8-2 6 Hofstra 9-1 7 Massachusetts 8-2 8 Loyola 5-4 9 Navy 7-3 10 Virginia 7-4 11 Maryland 3-4 12 Duke 8-5 13 Army 8-3 14 Townson St. 5-3 15 Rutgers 7-4 
Points 
240 
225 
217 
206 
186 
184 
150 
148 
148 
148 
112 
103 
95 
94 
71 
16  Notre Dame  10-2 61  
17  Georgetown  7-3  54  
18  Deleware  3-7  20  
19  Penn St.  4-5  18  
20  Yale  6-6  17  

The Observer/Chris Mullins 
in this week's United States In­tercollegiate Lacrosse Associa­tion's coaches' poll, as the Irish remained in the 16th position. With their victory over the Buckeyes, Notre Dame tied the all-time school record for most wins in a season with ten. 
Even though the Irish were clearly the better of the two teams on the field in Columbus, the outcome of the game still hung in the balance with eleven minutes to go in the fourth quarter as the score was tied at seven. Then junior attacker Robbie Snyder went on a tear to propel the Irish to four unanswered goals. 
First, Snyder assisted on fel­low attacker Kevin Mahoney's goal at the ten and half minute mark to break the tie. He then scored an unassisted goal a minute later and iced the game with five minutes to go, taking a feed from senior attacker Bo Perriello, and netting his fourth goal of the game and giving the Irish the important win. 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan was satisfied with the win and how the Irish played in crunch time. "I was pretty happy with our play in the fourth quarter. We outshot them and and probably could have scored more," he said. 
The Irish, who have had trouble with their defense and intensity in their last three games, came out fired up and jumped on Ohio State for three goals in the first quarter. Ju­nior attacker Mark Hexamer, making his first start of the season, scored an unassisted goal four minutes into the game to give the Irish an early lead, 1-0. After the Buckeyes tied the game, he then assisted on Snyder's first goal eight minutes later. Freshman midfielder Rob Tobin scored in the next minute to give the Irish a 3-1 lead after the game's opening quarter. 
Coach Corrigan's emphasis on fundamentals the week leading up to the game paid off as the Irish played considerably better and dominated nearly every aspect of the game. The defense, who has had trouble in earlier games, rose to the challenge of the Buckeye of­fense and had one of their best games. "We played great de­fense and had great riding, those things paid off for us," Corrigan noted. 
But Ohio State would not suc­cumb to the pressure of the Irish, and played evenly with the Irish in the sPr.ond and third quarters. The Buckeyes outscored Notre Dame to cut the lead to 6-5 at halftime, and then matched the Irish goal for goal in the third, before Snyder led the Irish in·the fourth. They were led by attacker Tom Holzer, who scored four times. 
The game marked the first time in junior attacker Randy Colley's career that he did not score a goal, leaving him one goal short of breaking the sea­son scoring record of 42, which he set last year. 
SMC tennis outlasts Wheaton 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
Despite experiencing a week­end full of setbacks, the Saint Mary's tennis team (10-5) tri­umphed against Wheaton Col­lege at home on Saturday, winning 6-3. 
The Belles were also sched­uled to play against Depauw University later that same afternoon to complete a tri­match among the three schools but the match was cancelled due to lack of time. 
In singles play against Wheaton, the Belles won four matches, three of which were in straight sets. Senior Natalie Kloepfer, at number-two, had trouble downing her partner, Heather Cowan. but eventually 
came through after four sets to win (6-0, 2-6, 7-6 (7-3). 
Number-three player junior Thayma Darby split sets with Christy Vermeer, but fell in the tie-breaking third set, (6-3, 3-6, 6-4). Junior Lisa Rania, at number-six, had similar prob­lems against her opponent Kim Rockness, but stayed in for four sets, losing (7-6, (7-4), 2-6, 7 -5). 
In doubles play, the number­one duo of junior Mary Cos­grove and sophomore Andrea Ayres beat Holly Parrish and Vermeer, (6-3, 6-2). At num­ber-two, the team of senior Chris Smiggen and sophomore Robin Hrycko beat Heather Cowan and Anne Barclay in split sets, (2-6, 6-1, 6-2). 
Number-three doubles had to retire due to senior Shannon 
Why take your winter 

clothes home for the summer? 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proof vault all swnmer anp ready for you when you return in the Fall. 
• 
low cost storage • No payment until Fall 

• 
Protection from • Mare closet s~ce for moths/fire/theft your summer things 


Two Locations Near Campus! 

207 us 31 (across from Bob Evans) 
272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (next lo Martin's) Greenwood Shopping Center 
272-9461 
McGinn's knee injury. 

Today, the Belles can be seen playing Hope College at 3:00 on their home courts in the last match of the season. 
"Hope has always been up there, and they are supposed to be strong this year," said coach Jo-Ann Nester. 
Monday, April 26, 1993 


The Observer/John Bingham Junior attackman Robbie Snyder tallied four goals in the Irish's 11-7 victory over Ohio State on Saturday. 
Happy Birthday Eric and Kristin! 
Appear In• our RESUME BOOKS 

Deadline: Before you leave campus in May! 
Placement Services 

..::.l.=-.L:..:..L.:::.J..=.J.=..L:..:-L.=...L:...:.J..:..:.J 27 Asymmetrical 

REFRIGERATOR RETURNS THURSDAY, APRIL 29th Stepan Courts: ll:OOam-2:00 pm Lyons Courts: 3:00 pm-6:00pm Please defrost, clean, and dry! ny questions? call 1-800-445-7735  ~ ~ R1I C[J) VJIJE § ~ ~ THURSDAY: FRI. &SAT: BILL ALADDIN & ALADDIN TED'S ALADDIN EXCELLENT ALADDINADVENTURE 7:00, 9:00, & ll:OOpm8:00 & 10:30pm Cushing Auditorium Cushing Auditorium  ***From SUB: We loved entertaining you this year and look forward to next semester Have an incredible sum mer and best of luck to he graduating SENIOR A short list of this year's events: Spin Doctors, They Might Be Giants Movies, Second City, Miss Saigon, Winter Fest, J. Jackson, Betty Shabazz, Irish Jog, AnTostal, Jazz Festival, _:......-r::::::...::::;.:~::.~.....~ Soph. Lit. Fest., etc.STUDENTUNIONBOAaD  

Today 
Monday, April 26, 1993 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
WE:.LL, I (,UE.SS I'M OVI. 
I lJSE:D TO Be A 
I GtUt.SS So. IT'S BE:fNBRANC.H DAVIDIAN. 

OVE.R 3 DA'/S AND COR£SH ISN'T 13AC:.k '/E.T. 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 

WAN\ 1C:> ITS f... SC\-\OOL CQI--l\£51. SO'JNDS GOOD. Wt.'RE SIJPI'O':>ED Tel DO W\-\AIS OIJR WINNII'IG TR!>.fF\C SI>.FET'! POSTERS. \loS~R GOING llit. W\t-.11'\I::.R GElS !="\'IE TO SA"i? 
8\JCK'S! 
~\~ 
~~ 
------= 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Adverse fate 56 Hearing tester 31 Ja1--62 Bio. read w1th a
1 Horned vipers 32 Kind of street or 
sigh5 Some are odd 
chair 63 Surfeit 9 "I Remember 
35 Mort1se's 64 Buoy up partner 
65"Ye-­
13 Loam and loess 
39 Comm1t arson Shoppe"15 O.E.F. word 
41 Hot cross--&6"-tohis 1aW1Id goat choice ...":
42 Mom 'n' pop 17 An ancient enterprise Kiplmg Greek dialect 67 Rooms 1n casas
43 Comic or horse 18 Emulate herons follower 68 Juror or ' 19 Lounge 44 Ogle's COUSin nobleman 69 D1rk of yore 
20 Th1s measures 46 Hot times in w1nd speed Paree? 70 Aerie, e.g. 22 Mandolin's 47 Give the nod to cousin 49 Exit 
DOWN 23 Blue or White 51 Well-known 
1 Largest river 53 Lab heater contment24 Redacts 55 Social worker's 2 Anon 26 Bizet heroine assignment 
3 Languish 4Actor Summerville
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5Gem 6 Declaim 7 Commanded 
28 Seldom seen 45 "The b1ggest 54 Tenth part aSound system little city 1n the 55 Hennery
29 Precision 
9 Very small world" 57--Bator,
instrument 
measure of Mongolia
48 Saws
30 Unit of force 
length 58 Dash50 Fan fare 
33 W1th
10 Anent 59 Narrativecompetence
~~~"-~ 11 Defrosts 51 Aesop product 
60 Japanese34 Sweet one of 52 Stage wh1sper outcasts~~j·· 12 Cart part 
song
.:...+-+'-+-'-i 14 Tea cake 53 Draw forth 61 Take five 
36 Observe
~'-'+-'-+='-i 21 Explosive device 37 Cupnte and 
cinnabar Get answers to any three clues 
-=+:c:+::+.:+.::-BE+::':t:::-t:::-f 25 Pen ads 
38 Legendary loch by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
~±4-:::+=-B'=-+=+';-F.:-1 26 Roman Censor 
40 Cod cousin 5656 (75¢ each minute).

page 15 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Sports 
pag~ 16 
Monday, April 26, 1993 

Tequila: Bookstore champs 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
It took them twelve years. Every single one of Tequila White Lightning's twelve teams made it to the Sweet Sixteen, advancing to the Final Four eight times and the finals six times. 
However, yesterday's Bookstore Basketball XXII championship match-up with Malicious Prosecution marked the first time the members of the squad could leave the tournament boasting, "We are the champions." 
Behind Eric Jones' ten points, Tequila White Lightning defeated Malicious 24-22 in the highest scoring Bookstore final ever. 
Several thousand fans crowded the grassy knoll and makeshift stadium surrounding Stepan court five to witness perhaps the most exciting final in the twenty-two years of Bookstore history. 
Tequila sucessfully challenged Malicious by forcing the ball inside to its two big men, Jones and Brian Ratigan who combined for fifteen points. 
The two teams opened the game by trading three points before Tequila went on a 5-1 run which became an 8-3 run to close the first half with an 11-6 lead. 
Malicious responded with an 8-3 streak of its own in the start of the second half to tie the contest at fourteen. 
Tequila regained composure and battled to what seemed a safe lead by scoring the game's next four points and taking an 18-14 lead. 
The resilient Malicious squad proved its doubters wrong by scoring six of the next eight to knot the score at twenty and force a win-by-two overtime. 
Jones gave Tequila a one point advantage by laying in a turn-around jump shot from the lane after Ratigan missed a free throw opportunity. 
After Malicious player Rich McDermott hit his second free throw of the game to tie the score 21­21, Ratigan took back the lead by forcing in a shot from the lane through an intense Malicious defense under the net. 
With pressure mounting, Rich Rolwing nailed a clutch jump shot for Malicious to tie the game for the last time. 
Ratigan gave Tequila a 23-22 edge by succeeding in his second attempt of the day from the free throw line. Malicious failed to score in its next attempt down court, giving Tequila the final opportunity to win that it would need. 
see CHAMPS/page12 
B G 

McDougal shines in comeback victor 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
-
Junior quarterback Kevin McDougal's made a case for the starting quarterback job on Saturday, leading the Blue on two fourth quarter touchdown drives and a 21-17 come­
from-behind win over the Gold in the 63rd annual Blue-Gold Game at Notre Dame Stadium. 

McDougal hit split end Clint Johnson on a 30-yard touch­
down pass with 5:34 remaining in the game, capping a five 
play, 62-yard drive which was set up by Tracy Graham inter­
ception. 

"We had a post on front side, so I had a choice to throw the post on the front side or the deep Z on the back side. I laid it up for Clint on and he made a great catch," said McDougal 
Johnson's catch capped a banner day for McDougal, who completed 16-26 for 230-yards and two touchdowns and earned offensive MVP honors. His opponent for the starting quarterback slot, sophomore Paul Failla, completed 18-28 for 156 yards a one touchdown. 
Failla looked good in the third period, leading the Gold on two third quarter scoring drives to break a 7-7 halftime tie. The first came on the opening drive of the second half, when a 32-yard Drew March field goal gave the Gold its first lead of the game at 10-7. Tailback Travis Davis highlighted the drive with a 29-yard run and Failla hit fullback Ray Zellars for 14-yards on a key play from the blue 40-yard line. 
Lee Becton fumbled the ensuing kickoff. and Gold linebacker Huntley Backich recovered at the Blue 31-yard line. Three plays later Failla connected with Mike Miller on a 29-yard scoring toss, extending the Gold lead to 17-7. 
"The defense was starting to shift their coverage a little bit, really pursue hard to the sidelines, so we ran a sideline post," said Failla. "When I originally threw it, I thought I threw it out of the endzone. The wind was blowing so hard it ended up falling short and Mike made a circus catch." 
The Blue answered early in the third quarter when fullback Marcus Thorne plunged in from one-yard out to the Gold lead to 17-14. The Gold committed three penalties on the drive, two coming on third down to keep the drive alive. 
After Johnson's catch, the Gold had one final chance to win, but tight end Leon Wallace's catch on fourth and four with :39 seconds remaining gained only two yards, stalling the drive at the 25-yard line. 
McDougal showed his arm off in the first half. Midway through the first period he marched the Blue down the field, completing five of six attempts, two of which were over twenty yards. The scoring play came on an eight yard pass to Derrick Mayes, after McDougal eluded heavy pressure before finding the freshman split end open in the back of the end­zone. 
"I saw Derrick come across behind the linebacker, and I 
though if I could fire it in there quick he could catch it," com­
mented McDougal. 

The Gold tied the score on a one-yard run by Hay Zellars ·on its second possession of the second quarter, after Blue re­ceiver Lake Dawson fumbled a Brent Boznanski punt, giving the Gold the ball .at the Blue 28-yard line. 
see BLUE-GOLD/page 1 0 

GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Jock Strip 
Holtz leaves only speculation concerning QB 

Trying to predict the moves of Lou Holtz has been especially arduous as of late. Notre Dame's coach has been Mr Neutrality this spring, never allowing Irish faithful to confirm any speculation on who would be the starting quarterback for the upcoming season. 
But that is what 22,330 fans on hand at Notre Dame Stadium attempted to do after Saturday's 63rd annual Blue-Gold game. Would Holtz acknowledge Kevin McDougal's fine performance and give him the job? Or would Notre Dame's es­teemed coach hide behind a series of neutral comments, as he leaves Irish fans toiling until fall camp begins August 16. 
"Both of them did some good things," said Holtz. "Both threw the ball well, Kevin exceptionally well. Kevin McDougal came out of spring practice slightly ahead, but Paul Failla is not far behind." 
I loltz revealed no more eoncerning the quarterback controversy which has engulfed spring drills. lie reiterated later that whoever came into fall camp and performed the !lest would get that job. 
It has been obvious to most insiders that McDougal is the choice of his teammates. lie is close friends with a number of the receivers and running backs, and is one of the most popular players on the squad. Sounds like the perfect quarterllaek, right? 
McDougal played well on Saturday completing 16 of 26 attempts for 230­yards and two touchdowns in leading the Blue to a 21-17 come-from-behind win. lie orchestrated two fourth quarter drives, and marched the Blue to the goa­

see DOHRMANN/page 13 

m~~miD~ SPORTS 
-· 

NFL DRAFT 
LACROSSE 

BASEBALL 

Tom Carter is one of four 
Chip Lonsdale and the 
Dave Sinnes gets the win 
Irish players to go in the first 

in the Irish's lone victory 
Notre Dame lacrosse 
over Evansville. 
round.

team stifle Ohio State 
see page 11

11-7. 
see page 13 
see page 14 







