1993-94 agenda discussed 
By KATE CRISHAM News Writer 
Changes and proposals made by the Student Government for the 1993-94 school year were 
HPC MEETING 
foremost on the agenda at last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
Student Body President Frank Flynn spoke on a stu­dent report to be given in October to the Board of Trustees on the Catholic char­acter of Notre Dame, as well as the success of the Book Fair. 
"The Book Fair is believed to have raised close to $40,000," reported Flynn. "We definitely hope to hold one again in January." 
In addition, HPC's relation­ship and importance to Student Government was discussed. Co-chairman Jackie Macy ex­plained that, as Student Government's official student representation, it is HPC's job to submit resolutions on mat­ters of campus importance. 
"These resolutions then go on to the Student Senate and Campus Life Council, where they will be addressed and hopefully acted upon," said 
see HPC/ page 4 

The Observer/Scott Mendenhall Richard Swift from Shorin-Ryu Karate demonstrates his physical strength at Activities Night. Activities Night showcased the opportunities for campus involvement. 
Golf course to preserve wildlife 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Golf Course has joined the Audubon Cooperative Sanctuary System, a national program designed to help landowners preserve and en­hance the environmental qual­ity of their property:) 
This nationwide effort is co­ordinated by the Audubon Society of New York State and the Golf Program is sponsored in part by the United States Golf Association. 
"The open space of a golf course is utilized not only by golfers, but is habitat for a va­riety of wildlife species," ex­plained Jean Mackay, staff ecologist for New York Audubon. 
"We welcome the commit­ment of the University of Notre Dame Golf Course to the envi­ronment and to managing their property with wildlife in mind," she added. 
As a member in the Cooperative Sanctuary System, the University of Notre Dame Golf Course will be involved in projects that enhance habitat for wildlife on their golf course, and preserve natural resources for the benefit of the local com-
see WILDLIFE I page 4 


Law drafted to allow blacks in government 
ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
Negotiators agreed Tuesday on a draft Jaw that would give blacks a role in running the country for the first time in South Africa's history. 
The bill would set up a Transitional Executive Council, a multiparty body that would assume joint control of some functions with the white-mi­nority government even before multiracial elections in April. It would include members from Nelson Mandela's African National Congress. and other black groups. 
ANC National Chairman Thabo Mbeki said Tuesday night that approval of the tran­sitional council by Parliament would allow the ANC to call for all remaining international eco­nomic sanctions to be lifted. He said such an announcement was likely by the end of the month. 
The draft law would severely inhibit President F.W. de Klerk's power to act indepen­dently, requiring him to consult with the transitional council on security matters and any major changes to laws. 
For example, an 80 percent majority of the council could veto any declaration by de Klerk of a state of emergency. 
The draft law and three oth­ers approved by negotiators now go to Parliament, which convenes a special session next week. 
Thousands of 
blacks rally behind 
an ANC demand to 
oust white police 
from Johannesburg­
area townships after 
23 blacks die in 
weekend violence. 

AP!Wm. J. Castello 
controls the dominant white chamber of Parliament. 
The panel would comprise members of all groups that have taken part at any time in the multiparty negotiations that began in December 1991. It would consist of a main council and seven subcommittees in such areas as law and order, finance, foreign affairs and the status of women. 
Some groups opposed the measure Tuesday or have boy­cotted the talks altogether. But it seemed unlikely they could prevent the transitional council from being formed. 
ANC Secretary-General Cyril Ramaphosa, the group's chief negotiator, called opposition to the transitional council "incon­sequential" and said, "It won't stop us." 
Pro-apartheid whites and some conservative leaders of black homelands oppose a tran­sitional council and election. They fear domination by the ANC, the nation's leading black group, in a post-apartheid gov­ernment and want guarantees of autonomous homelands where they can govern them­selves. 
The right-wing Conservative Party and Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, head of the Inkatha Freedom Party, have warned of civil war if the plans for a transitional council and election proceed. 
In another development, the nation's military intelligence chief told a judicial inquest that the killings of ANC activists in 1985 appeared to be the work of government security forces. 
Gen. Joffe! van der Westhuizen said the impetus for such an action likely would have come from "the very high­est level" of government, prob­ably the Cabinet. 
Van der Westhuizen was tes­tifying at a probe into the death of ANC activist Matthew Goniwe and three others. 
De Klerk ordered the inquest after publication last year of a military document that dis­closed a telephone conversation in which van der Westhuizen and another official discussed the "permanent removal from society" of Goniwe and others. 

The document was dated a few weeks before Goniwe was mur­dered. 
Van der Westhuizen has de­nied the language in the docu­ment meant Goniwe should be killed. He also denied any role in Goniwe's death. 
Students cited in SUDS raid By SARAH DORAN Assistant News Editor  
The Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) task force raided Corby's, a bar located at 441 E. LaSalle Avenue, early Sunday morning and issued two citations for minors pre­sent in a tavern, according to Charles Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame security. A Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student were cited at 1:17 a.m. for the violation of Indiana state law, a Class B misdemeanor punishable by a maximum fine of $1,000 and imprisonment for up to 180 days. Names of persons cited were not made available to The Ob­server at press time.  

SMCto showcase . acttvtttes 
By MYRNA MALQNEY 
NewsWrirer .•· 
The annual fall Activity Night .at Saint. M~ry's • College wUl be held on Wednesday, Sept~ . 8 in the Angela Athletic Facility, acc()rding to Maureen Sullivan, the Campus Club Cmnmissioner .. 
Cl{}se to 70 organizations will be represented, accord~ ing to Georgeanna Rosenbush, the Director of Student Activities for Saint Mary's. 
Between 8 and 10 p.m.• students from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame can explore the social and volunteer opportunities offered by Saint Mary·s, Notre Dame and the South Bend community, SullivaP.. said. 
Groups from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame also include intramural sports teams, political committees and eth­nic societies, Rosenbush said. 
A second semester Activities Night is also being planned forlate January. 
Interested students who are unable to attend. Activities Night should call the Saint Mary's Student Activities Office at 284-4562, or Maureert Sullivan at 284­5166. 


.-.---------·----------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 8, 1993 
INSIDE COLUMN WORLD AT AGLANCE 


Robbo 
don't play 

that! 

Hi kids, I'm Robbo the Clown, and today we're going to talk about Mr. Crime. 
For many of you, the word itself conjures up thoughts which most of us would like to ignore, or better yet don't know the meaning of from lack of personal experi­ence. 
Like the majority of Notre Dame students, crime is not an everyday issue one has to deal with. 
But this year, a select few have gotten the pleasure of meeting Mr. Crime face to face. Since August 20, six apartments in Lafayette Square have been burglarized. 
Not only did the Class of 1994 set a school record for number of undergraduates living ofT-campus, but it's looking like we are well on our way to set a record for number of break­ins. 
I had just finished work last Thursday evening, and was on my way out the door when I got the call from my roommate. 
"We got hit." 
"Huh?" 
"We got hit...robbed ... cleaned out...taken to the cleaners... the door's closed, eggs are coolin'. butter's get tin' hard." 
I could not believe it-not even after talking to half of my neighbors about their face-to­face encounters with Mr. Crime. 
With everyone moved in and armed with petitions, burglar alarms, an occasional patrol car passing by and a vowed silent promise amongst ourselves to watch each other's backs, we thought there was no way anything else would happen. 
Wrong. 
Where there's a will there's a way. 
Like my mom said, "You asked for it by mov­ing out of those safe, secure, family oriented dorms." 
How could I forget. 
We thought taking it up with our friendly neighborhood landlord would initially help solve the problem. 
Nope. Wrong again. 
"I don't want you kids to waste your time by coming down to our office." 
Oh yeah, sorry Mr. Landlord. I forgot to refer to the new and updated South Bend Guide to Looting and Pillaging Students. 
Chapter 3, Section 1, Clause F, Paragraph 4 clearly states, 'When you can't rip the rear sliding glass door ofT the track, refer to plan B ... use any means necessary including kicking in basement windows ... those kids never mind sleeping on shards of glass." 
Hdw does one keep a sense of humor throughout this ordeal, one might ask? When something this absurd happens, refer to Chapter 2, Section 5, Clause A, Paragraph 1 of the Notre Dame Guide to Lifting Spirits After Being Looted. 
"Go to Grotto and pray for early Circus Lunch." 
This is Robbo the Clown saying, "Bye bye kids, and don't forget to leave me some cook­ies and milk on top of the stereo!" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech Katie Murphy Dave Hungling Emily Hage Nancy Dunn 
Production 
Michael O'Hara 
Ron Veldman Kathie Young Spons Jonathan Jensen Graphics Brendan Regan Viewpoint Michael O'Hara 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Chimp wins stock contest 
STOCKHOLM. Sweden 
A newspaper gave five stock analysts and a chimpanzee the equivalent of $1,250 each to make as much money as they could on the stock market. The chimp won. After one month, the chimpanzee, Ola, saw the value of his stocks rise "$190, the newspaper Expressen reported Tuesday. Runner-up was Mats Jonnerhag whose stocks rose $130 from Aug. 3 to Sept. 3. While the stock experts carefully considered their portfolios, Ola made his choice by throwing darts at names of companies listed on the Stockholm stock exchange. One dart hit Forsheda, a small diversified company whose stock rose 44 percent over the month. That compared with the average 5 per­cent rise for all stocks listed on the exJ:hange. 
Clinton nominee confirmed 
WASHINGTON 
Dr. Joycelyn Elders, President Clinton's choice for sur­geon general, was confirmed by the Senate Tuesday night, surmounting vig­orous opposition from conservatives. The vote was 65 to 34. Senators de­bated her nomination for more than six hours on the first day of their return from a summer recess. Elders was not present for the final vote. Republicans had acknowledged in advance of the cli­mactic vote that the former Arkansas health chief would be elevated to the position of surgeon general, the nation's No. 1 doctor. 
Lesbian loses custod battle 
RICHMOND, Va. 
A lesbian is unfit to be a mother, a judge ruled Tuesday, allowing a woman to retain custody of her homosexual daughter's 2-year-old son. in a case watched closely by gay-rights activists. Judge Buford Parsons ruled just half an hour after the close of a daylong hear­ing in which the grandmother and mother testified. The grandmother, Kay Bottoms, had argued that the boy could grow up not knowing the difference between men and women if he is returned to Sharon Bottoms and her lover, April Wade. The daughter testified that she herself was harmed by years of sexual abuse from her mother's live-in boyfriend. Parsons, an Henrico County Circuit Court judge, deemed that Sharon Bottoms' relationship with her live-in partner "renders her an unfit parent." 
Man claims HIV infection by priest 
DENVER 

A man sued a Roman Catholic priest he claims infected him with the AIDS virus during 20 years of sexual abuse. Lawyers said Tuesday's lawsuit was the first such case of its kind. Thomas Perea, 36, filed the lawsuit in Boulder County District Court against the Rev. Delbert Blong and the Diocese of Pueblo, seeking a jury trial and unspecified monetary damages. Perea, who lives Boulder, said at a news conference that Blong first molested him during a counseling session as an eighth-grader at Sacred Heart · Church in Alamosa in 1971. He said Blong abused him "regularly and repeatedly" until about November 1992. The sex was unprotected, Perea said. He said Blong admitted to him in February that he is HIV positive; that two of his other male partners have died of AIDS and two others are HIV positive. Perea said he tested HIV-positive in March. Perea, who is gay, believes he was infected by the priest because he had practiced safe sex with other lovers, all of whom have tested negative. 
INDIANA Weather 

NATIONAL Weather 
The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Wecilesday, Sept. 8. 
Lines separate high temperature zones f~r the day. 
FRONTS: 
............... ..a....a... ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1993 Accu·Woather. Inc. 

PrtJSSUfB 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY ClOUDY 
Atlanta Boston Chicago  H 85 70 75  L 70 64 49  Jerusalem London Los Angeles Madrid Minneapolis  79 70 91 84 71  59 55 65 63 49  New York Paris Philadelphia Rome SeaHie  79 70 81 81 84  69 54 69 54 55  
Cleveland Dallas  73 96  58 70  Moscow Nashville  61 88  46 65  Washington, D.C.  88  71  

Coral Sea 
D 
Pacific Ocean Q 
~ 

1,000 miles 1,000 km 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
Yet another natural disaster struck as New Guinea was rocked by an earthquake. Located in the Pacific Rim, New Guinea, Guam and other areas have recently been hit by tremors. 
Striking steelworkers killed by trucker 
COLUMBIANA, Ala. 
Two striking union steelworkers were killed on the picket line Tuesday when an 18-wheeler leaving a wire plant ran them down, police said. The truck driver was charged with reckless murder. Company officials closed the National Standard plant indefinitely, and as law offi­cers escorted about 75 workers out, strikers threw rocks, sticks. pipes and tools at them. Some automobile wind­shields were broken and some cars were dented, but no one was injured, Columbiana Police Chief Richard Todd said. As nightfall approached, strikers carrying baseball bats and pieces of wood milled around outside the plant. The driveway was blocked with overturned barrels. "It was almost a riot," Shelby County Sheriff James Jones said. "Emotions are very, very high and that's understandable." Walter Fleming, 55, of Vincent, and Keith Cain. 23, were struck and killed while standing in the plant's driveway, Todd said. Truck driver Larry Gray Jr., 24, of Ragland, was arrested and charged with two counts of reckless murder and one felony count of leaving the scene of an accident, Todd said. Gray kept driving after hitting the men outside the plant and was stopped 15 miles away by a police officer, Todd said. He said po­lice had a videotape shot by a plant employee of the men being hit. The driver, an employee of Oliver Transportation of Mexico, Mo., was being held without bond. About 200 members of United Steelworkers Local 15015 have been on strike since June 1 in a dispute over a company proposal for a wage cut. National Standard, with headquarters in Niles, Mich., produces wire and wire-related products. Columbiana, the county seat of Shelby County, is about 25 miles southeast of Birmingham. Plant manager Robert Gallant didn't return a telephone message left at his home Tuesday night. 
-------~~------------­
page 3 

College struggles amid financial scandals 













By AMY HARRINGTON him (Nobles) as a man of in­Associated Press tegrity. We choose to continue to believe that." CLINTON, Miss. 
Gates leading to Mississippi Nobles, who resigned Aug. 3, College read "Enter here to has refused to comment beyond increase in stature, knowledge saying, "Only one side of the and wisdom." Lewis Nobles, controversy has been pre­president of the Baptist school sented." for 25 years, was part of that He also was silent when the quest, until the walls closed in school's only Division II na­on him. tional championship was taken 
In January, Mississippi away by the NCAA. Among the College was stripped of the na­alleged violations: Mississippi tional football championship it College awarded scholarships won in 1989. Last month, to 98 players during the 1989­Nobles was forced out amid al­90 school year. That's double legations he diverted $3 million the number allowed. The in donations for his private use. school didn't deny it. 
School officials speak with re­Nobles' handling of donations spect of Nobles, who demanded is the subject of a federal grand that the football coach resign jury investigation that should because he didn't want the conclude in about three coach's divorce and remarriage months, said Assistant U.S. to reflect poorly on the private Attorney Jack Lacy. college. Lawyer Alan Perry, re'pre­
senting the college, said school 
Under Nobles' leadership, officials detected problems with enrollment at the school nearly donations when some donors doubled to more than 5,000. He were asked to contribute mon­started a law school -only the eya second time. Their first 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

second in the state -and a donations were given to,Nobles 
Junior Nick Galassi registers at Stepan for a chance to win Michigan tickets. A limited number of tickets 
college of nursing. and never recorded, Perry said. 
are available for this week's game against the Wolverines. 
"Some people are saying no­The college's Board of body would have dared make Trustees sued Nobles on Aug. 6 these charges if there weren't in Hinds County Chancery some semblance of guilt," said Court, accusing him of mis­Charles Martin, vice president managing donations and giving of academic affairs. officials in the school's business "Some other people are say­office phony bank statements 
ing we've always thought of and checks. 
Q!be Nt\ttUork~imes 
DELIVERED FOR ONLY 30 CENTS/DAY MON·SATI 
( ) MON-FRI $15.90 ( ) MON-SUN $46.30 ( ) MON-SAT $ 18.30 ( ) SUN ONLY $28.00 
University of Notre Dame Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. 20th & ends Fri., Dec. 10th 
International Study Program 
at

(No delivery during Fall or Thanksgiving breaks) 
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: CITY NEWS SERVICE 
NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
ADDRESS


NAME:$~====~~====!S====~illlllllilllllilllll: 
Spend a Semester Studying the Pacific Rim 
Clip and mail to: City News Service, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend, IN 46615 
in Frcmantlc *CALL FOR OUR NEW OFF-CAMPUS DELIVERY RATES! 232-3205 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, September 9, 1993 140 DeBartolo


~~ Esll~ '" 
4:30P.M. 
Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters And Business Administration Arc Welcome! 

ND AccouNTiNq

~ .­
In Memory of Cesar Chavez 
AssociATiON
domingo, 12 de Septiembre de 1993 
11:30 a.m. 
The Grotto 

ORqANiZATiONAl MEETiNq 
Rain site -Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

WEdNESdAy, SEpTEMbER 8 
Celebrante 

Padre Timothy Scully, c.s.c. 
7 p.M. Todos Estan lnvitados 
iN 22) HAyEs~ HEAly 
All Are Welcome 

Breakfast will be served following the liturgy. 

$ I 0 MEMbERship duEs 
0MPUS Sponsored by
Campus Minostry 
Coro Primavera C:le Nuestra Seiiora
MINISTRY 


will bE collECTEd 
r= 
The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 1993 
Marcos corpse used as political tool 
page 4 

Congressional women seek change on the Hill 
By KAREN BALL mier ol' boys club last Associated Press "~ November wonder if Capitol
1-----------Hill isn't operating in a bit of a 
WASHINGTON  time warp with the way men  
Freshman Rep. Leslie Byrne  treat women.  
was pressing for a measure to  
whittle away at tax breaks,  Women more than doubled  
arguing her case before the  their numbers in the House  
House Rules Committee.  last November, and now hold  
Rep. James Quillen, a 30­ 47 of the 435 seats. Five new  
year veteran of Congress,  women have joined the ranks  
smiled down at the Hill new­ ·  of the Senate, adding to the  
comer, who wore a red suit.  two who were there before.  
"I don't agree with you on  But it's been tough going, at  
this," drawled the Tennessee  times, for these new women,  
Republican, "but you certainly  who report an occasional,  
brighten the place up."  subtle double standard on  
Such comments explain why  Capitol Hill,  an institution  
many  of the  women  sent  steeped in tradition and long  

By ROBERT H. REID 
Associated Press 

LAOAG, Philippines 
Call it body politics: the use of a leader's remains to promote the political agenda of the cause he left behind. 
The widow of the late President Ferdinand Marcos, whose body was returned Tuesday for burial in his home­land, clearly hopes the funeral will invigorate his supporters and promote the family's politi­cal fortunes. 
Imelda Marcos managed to attract a large and enthusiastic crowd, although much smaller than the one million her sup­porters had predicted. 
About 7,000 people turned out at Laoag airport in a senti­mental, emotional welcome as Marcos' corpse arrived on a chartered jet from Honolulu. 
Marcos died in Hawaii in September 1989, three years after he was ousted and ban­ished in the mass uprising that installed Corazon Aquino as president. 
Mrs. Marcos, draped in a black veil and black native dress, kissed the bier and wept alongside her three children. Women in the crowd also wept. 
After a colorful ceremony fea­turing native death rituals, the black metal casket was loaded aboard a black, horse-drawn carriage and taken in a solemn procession to the city's cathe­dral and later a reviewing stand in front of the white provincial capitol building. 
Through the afternoon and evening, townspeople and visi­tors filed by the coffin, flanked by a Philippine flag and the seal of the president. A sound sys­tem blared out llocano prayers and songs for the dead. 
Vendors were selling food and T-shirts reading "Marcos My Hero" and "I saw the re­turn of a great Filipino." 
The body was to remain at the capitol until Wednesday, when it was to be transported in a torchlight procession to Batac, nine miles to the south, for burial Friday in a stone mausoleum in the yard of Marcos' family home. 
crashing into the nation's pre-dominated by men. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
Macy. 
In other matters, the HPC agreed to support the Madison Center's sale of "Lou Masks." The masks raised almost $25,000 for mental health ser­vices and counseling for the 

Wildlife 
continued from page 1 
munity. 
The projects may include: placing nesting boxes for cav­ity-nesting birds such as blue­birds and swallows, utilizing in­tegrated pest management techniques, conserving water, and maintaining food and cover for wildlife. 
homeless last year. 
HPC also announced the Budget Committee for the 1993-94 year. The committee will consist of Dietz Lefort of Sorin, Jane Daly of Lyons, Sara Skalicky of Knott, Sarah Iretin of Howard, Brian Coughlin of Grace, Brett Boessen of Stanford, Gina Lessio of Breen­Phillips, and Shelia Zachman of Siegfried. 
The Cooperative Sanctuary System benefits both people and wildlife," said Mackay. "It's a great way for landowners and environmental organiza­tions to work together to become better stewards of land and natural resources." 
In addition to golf courses, the Audubon Cooperative Sanctuary System also works with individual homeowners, businesses and schools. 
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
welcomes all to attend our 
Kick-off Picnic at Potowatomi Park 12:30-3:00 p.m. Sunday, September 12th (meet at the library circle at 12:30 for rides) Come for great food and fun! 
Bible Study 7:00-8:30 p.m. Tuesday, September 14th at the esc 
Questions? Call Lisa at 43860 or Kevin at 273-1757 




Right now, you can get agreat price on an Apple3 printer for your puter lab. You can even get special financing with the Apple Computer Macintosh~ So you'll be able to print sharp, professional-looking papers Loan~ See your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the '­ri~1t there in your room-without having to wait around at the com-power more college students prefer. The power to be your bese II® 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
page5

Wednesday, September 8, 1993 The Observer • NEWS 


Party politics: Christian activists transform GOP 
Editor's note: The following is part three in a series. 
ByJOHN KING Associated Press 
WEST CHESTER, Pa. 
Jim Hanak was elected last year to the Chester County Republican Committee, one of those obscure party posts that often draw little interest but can carry a big voice in recruit­ing and endorsing candidates for local offices. 
A soft-spoken man with pas­sionate politics, he represents a growing force that is splitting the personality of local Republican politics across the United States. 
Hanak is also state director 
the American Family 
Ministries, a conservative, anti­abortion group. His dual roles represent an evolving night­mare to moderate Republicans: the quiet takeover of local GOP organizations by religious ac­tivists they view as obsessed with abortion and homosexual­ity and intolerant of those who don't share their views. 
"These people are zealots," argues Ellen Harley, a state representative from suburban Philadelphia. "They want to impose their idea of God and their idea of values and push the social issues to the fore. That has never been what Republicans are about. A politi­cal party should not be about the business of trying to define God." 

It's a festering feud that belies all the recent talk of Republican unity against President Clinton's tax increas­es. Unity over economic issues only masks the GOP's deep cul­tural divide. 
"It is not going to go away," Republican National Committee member Elsie Hillman says of the split. "We just have to deal with it." 

Because of their strength at local levels, religious conserva­tives now control or have signif­icant influence over Republican parties in at least 18 states: Alaska, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii; Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Washington and Virginia. 
Since 1988, when religious broadcaster Pat Robertson showed surprising strength in GOP presidential caucuses, Christian activists have realized the influence of low-level party posts, and the ease with which these positions can be won be-



HOlRf DAMf SlUDfHlS 
HAl GIIH US APlfCf Of lHfiR MINDS. 

Anthony Travel 

Lafortune Student Center  
Hacienda Mexican Restaurant  
5836 Grape Rd.  
Procrastination  
Gland  
() c  (to be used later)  
>.  
c  
Cll  
a.  
E  
0  
0  
!J)  
<ll  
()  
·~  
~  
"0  
<ll«;  
Qia:  
l .=  
!J)  
!J)  
<ll  
a.  
)(  
w  
c  
Cll  
()  
·~  
E  
<!  
('")  
~  
©  

Outpost Sports 5 3602 Grape Rd. 
The part that ends up being donated to science. 

cause of low interest. 
"I could have been a Nazi or a communist and still have got­ten elected," Hanak said last year after his election to the county GOP committee. 
While the Republican National Committee and most state GOP committees remain in the hands of "party regulars," local strength gives Christian activists power to endorse candidates for school boards, county commissions and state legislatures. 
Christian political leaders deny any attempt to control the · GOP, notwithstanding Robertson's 1991 pledge to have "a working majority of the Republican Party in the hands of pro-family Christians by 1996." 




Cerebral Functions: Student Americanus 

Recently, we've been talking to students on campus-to get inside their heads and find 
out where they like to go. For pizza. PCs. Posters. And other paraphernalia. And how do students like to pay for their purchases? With the American Express® Card, of course. No finance charges. No hassle. With that all taken care of, their minds are freed up for the really important things in life. 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 1993 
Clinton addresses elderly concerns 
Jury convicts two whites of charges in racist attack 
By JAMES MARTINEZ "As a black mother, ( would Associated Press like to say that never would I wish for anyone, whether WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. black or white, to have to 
Two white laborers were undergo the pain and agony convicted of all charges and frustration we have been Tuesday . in the burning of a through and are still going black tourist who said they through." taunted him with racial slurs, "We will survive," she doused him with gasoline and added. 
set him on fire. Wilson, a 32-year-old stock brokerage clerk from New 
Mark Kohut and Charles York City, was burned over Rourk showed no reaction nearly 40 percent of his body, when the jury of five whites and prosecutors had relied on and one black found them his emotional testimony. guilty of attempted murder, kidnapping and robbery. The He described being abduct­jury returned its decision after ed by gun-wielding attackers a 10-day trial and 12 hours of on New Year's Day outside a 
deliberations. suburban Tampa shopping 
Burning victim Christopher plaza and forced to drive to a Wilson sat looking straight remote field, where he was ahead next to his mother, doused with gasoline and set Enid Plummer, who looked ablaze. upward as the first guilty ver­Wilson called Rourk, 33, dict was read and nodded her "the mean one" who barked 
head yes. Later, she wiped racial slurs during the abduc­away tears as Wilson whis­tion and sloshed him with the pered to her. gasoline. Kohut, 27, was "the one with bright eyes" who 
Kohut and Rourk, both day spoke little during the attack. laborers from Lakeland, face up to life in prison. Sentencing But there were no finger­
was set for Oct. 22. prints, hairs, fibers or DNA ty­. Wilson made no comment as ing Kohut and Rourk 'to the he left the courthouse, but his scene, and there was similarly mother said in a statement no link found through hand· through prosecutors: "We are writing analysis of a note left very happy to know justice behind that read "One les nig· was served." ger more to go." ihl>'' 
·i}:V·"·. ··::-:%t-. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Business Writers 
Experienced writers with business knowledge for the business page, contact Pancho or Meredith at 631-5323 for more information. 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 

Baptism Confirmation Full Communion 
in the Catholic Church 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME •.• 
§~A~~~~~~~mn~ !~ciD\'};lNJ liDifl]JI]l~ ll&<IDCIDl]]lll 11&1FCID~m!Wl® 
Baptism 

~~r _unbaptized people interested in JOmmg the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confinnation For Catholics interested in receiving the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Questions? call or visit Kat.. Barrett Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 631-5242 

By CHRISTOPHER CONNELL 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
America's 32 million elderly would get major new prescrip­tion drug benefits under Medicare for about $8 a month as part of President Clinton's health reforms, the White House has told advocates for the elderly. 
The package will also feature long-term care benefits for the aged and younger people with serious disabilities, emphasiz­ing home-and community­based care. 
Both will be major selling points with the elderly, who have been hammered by rising medical costs despite being the only age group that now enjoys almost universal coverage. 
But lobbyists and lawmakers concerned about the elderly are wary about other aspects of the Clinton plan that will seek to pay for reforms in part by dra­matically slowing the growth of Medicare and other health spending. 
White House officials said Tuesday seniors will be given the same prescription drug cov­erage as everybody else under the Clinton proposal, with a $250 annual deductible and 20 percent copayments. 
One source said the expanded benefits would cost $152 billion over five years -$80 billion for long-term care and $72 bil­lion for prescription drugs. 
The official, who insisted on anonymity, said Clinton is pro­jecting $124 billion in Medicare savings over that same period. Medicare's overall budget over five years exceeds $1 trillion. 
"Every nickel and then some goes into new benefits," the of­ficial said. 
The White House has begun briefing interest groups and congressional staffers on its package, which Clinton plans to unveil in a speech to Congress in two weeks. 
John Bother, legislative direc­tor for the American Association of Hetired Persons, said Clinton aides told him the drug benefits will be worth $32 to $35 a month on average per senior citizen. 

DATE: 

Thursday, September 9th LOCATION: Stepan Center 
TIME: 

7:00-10:00 PM 
STARTER..The leading authentic apparel &headwear licensee ol the NFL NBA, MLB, NHL and the NCAA now bnngs you STARTER ...THE BRAND 
Wednesday, September 8, 1993 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Domestic troubles ruin Nigeria's global visions Israeli police reinforced 
By MARK FRITZ Somalia, Western Sahara and Gen. Ibrahim Babangida re­
•

Associated Press Angola and is the dominant signed after eight years as ruler force in the West African coali­on Aug. 26 after triggering 

to contain protest 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast tions trying to quell rebellions widespread civil unrest and 
Nigeria is a huge country in Liberia and Sierra Leone. even broader public disgust by By KARIN LAUB "And the greatest lie of them with an ego and army to match. voiding the results of the June Associated Press all is that this dangerous agree­ment will bring peace," said
Long enamored with the idea of Despite accusations that it 12 presidential election that 
often seeks Netanyahu, who claimed that
becoming Africa's superpower, to broaden its was to move the nation to JERUSALEM the nation instead has slid into sphere of influence, Nigeria has democracy. Tens of thousands of people the throng had reached quagmires abroad and unrest been one of the United Nations' protesting the Palestinian 300,000. 
at home. best soldiers. That election was viewed by autonomy plan laid siege to "It will not bring peace, it will 
The slaying of seven Nigerian "They are probably more ex­many Nigerians as the oppor­Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's bring more terror, more terror, soldiers in an ambush in perienced at international tunity for this nation of 90 mil­office Tuesday, vowing to clog more terror. It is laying the Somalia on Sunday provided peacekeeping than the United lion to finally realize its goal of the surrounding streets for 24 groundwork for the next war," more ammunition to people States," said Petrie, analyst for having a government that com­hours. Netanyahu said. who want the nation to stop the International Institute for mands as much respect as its The rally was the first of a The Likud bloc, which aspiring to be a continental cop Strategic Studies in London. 80,000-member military and its series spearheaded by the op­planned weeks of protests, is and start tending to troubles in Liberia, however, has become vast oil reserves. position Likud bloc, allied with staking its political future on 
Nigeria. Nigeria's Vietnam. Nigeria dis­Instead, it was faced with the settler movement in the oc­opposition to Palestinian auton­
"They're not the first nation patched 10,000 troops to crush widespread general strikes that cupied territories and some re­omy. It is gambling that secu­ligious groups, to try to force rity fears will ultimately influ­
in the world to bite off more the rebellion three years ago further damaged an economy than they can chew," said Ken but remains mired in a costly, already plundered and mis­the government to new elec­ence the public more than the 
demoralizing conflict marked managed by a succession of tions or at least a referendum hope that a political settlementPetrie, a former British Royal 
Air Force attache to the by vicious bloodshed and bro­military and civilian rulers. over the autonomy plan. would end the bloodshed. Nigerian military. ken peace accords. Despite criticism, the military Police sources estimated the Yaron Ezrahi, a professor of 
"One in every four or five It is not surprising that the has long had a reputation as a crowd size at 50,000, Israel TV political science at Hebrew black Africans is a Nigerian," new government of Ernest well-trained fighting force with said. Many had come on buses University, said that if Likud he said. "They have always Shonekan, trying to woo public an established esprit de corps. from throughout Israel. fails to bring down Rabin's gov­
Organizers claimed the crowd ernment it would be adrif.t..
seen themselves as the leader." support, immediately an­nounced after it took office last But its decade-long hold on numbered in the hundreds of "There would be no issue left Few Westerners realize the month that Nigeria would bring politics has tarnished the brass. thousands. for the Likud party," he said. "This is the opening round in With Rabin's government and 
history and scope of Nigeria's home the troops next spring. Petrie said two top Nigerian 
overseas excursions and its Nigeria, a nation that has military officers told him re­an unprecedented struggle," Arafat already committed to willingness to join just about long clamored for a seat on the cently the army no longer Likud leader . Binyamin the plan -awaiting an agree­any multinational effort to U.N. Security Council, has seen draws recruits who want to be Netanyahu told the rally, call­ment on mutual recognition bring peace. its visions of global influence good soldiers, but people who ing the autonomy plan negoti­between Israel and the PLO 
It is taking part in peacekeep­dashed by its own domestic want access to political power ated with the PLO in secret a before it's signed -chances of derailing the initiative com­pletely appeared slight. The Israeli parliament is ex­pected to start reviewing the plan Thursday. At a Tel Aviv rally Saturday in support of the plan, 100,000 people attended. One banner read, "Death to Traitors," and some extremists vowed to spill blood if neces­sary. This prompted fears that the protests would trigger vio­lent clashes. "This is not a demonstration. It is going in the direction of a revolt, a revolt of the people who are telling the prime min­ister not to go any further," said Uri Ariel, leader of the West Bank settlers' council. 
Ariel said demonstrators had been given told not to throw stones, and Likud officials said the party called only for non­violent protests. 
The gathering was thick with Israeli flags and banners de­nouncing the autonomy plan. 
Rabbi Yosef Aronov, director of the Hasidic Lubavitch move­ment Chabad in Israel, said demonstrators wanted to get across the message that Israel was in danger. 
"If the government gives land to the Arabs, our lives and our childrens' lives are in danger, four million people are in dan­ger. We will do everything in our power, everything, to get this message across," Aronov said. 
Police pushed back anyone attempting to cross the qarriers forming a buffer zone around the building, arresting four members of the extremist Kach movement they said were preparing to carry out violent acts. 
Major streets around several government buildings were closed and traffic routed through the suburbs. About 2,500 extra policemen were deployed to prevent violence. 
Maple Lane Barber Shop 
serving the Notre Dame community for over 3 2 years 
2112 South Bend Avenue (across from the new Martin's) 
272--6722 

lie.
ing forces in Croatia, Angola, problems. and wealth. 

The right time. The right place. Blue chip. Green light. State Farm processing equipment. You'll go State Farm is hiring. is one of America's leading insur­as far and as fast as you can. 
If you're a senior with a data ance companies. Through inno­You couldn't have a more solid processing, computer science or vative marketing and a proud base to build a career on. math background, there may be service tradition it has become Contact your campus a very special career opportunity the nation's leading auto and Placement Director about waiting for you in one of the larg­homeowner's insurer, and one of State Farm today. est corporate data processing the top life insurance companies Or write Daryl Watson, Assistant facilities in the country. in the country. Director, Home Office Personnel 
There are actuarial and audit­You'll receive expert training. Relations, One State Farm Plaza, ing jobs open, too. You'll work on state-of-the-art data Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANIES. Home Offices: Bloomington. Illinois. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
~~ ~~ ~~ ------------------------~~
~.. ........~.......... ............~~...................~.... .............. 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, September 8, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Kinney 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor................ Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager ..................... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...................... Steph Goldman Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Systems Manager .............................. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ................................. Jake Peters OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Saint Mary'• Editor............. Jennifer Habtych Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmaries, lcucrs and Inside Columns prcscm the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available 10 all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNic:wpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Bu.siness Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 


PETE PETERSON BEYOND FREEDOM ROCK 
Demonstration proved pivotal moment in history 
Twenty-five years ago, we  dope. The leader of this group  disobey, and it was clear the  
were all standing around saying  was dressed in a. kind of Sgt.  cops were as leaderless as we  
to each other, "How was your  Pepper outfit. We started talk­ were.  
summer?"  ing and he said, "Would you  We could hear screaming and  
But we were also asking,  like to be a clown? We have a  sirens up ahead, and whistles,  
"Were you in Chicago?"  clown suit and we need some­ as the chaos began to come  
Notre Dame wasn't a front­row seat for the Sixties, in the  one to be a marshall and wear it...  back down the canyon. A fel­low burst out from our group  
sense that Madison and Ann  Well, I took a marshall's  into the street, and five police­ 
Arbor and Columbia were. The  white armband for myself, but  men surrounded him, beating  
place boiled with Christian  passed the clown suit on to a  him in the head with their billy­ 
activism, but there were no  fellow who is today a bureau  clubs. The clubs made a funny,  
barricades: Fire-breathing  chief for the Associated Press.  wet, smacking crunch, as the  
rebels don't apply to private  About eight of us ended up with  bones broke in his face and  
religious schools.  the Yippies, marching with the  blood spewed from his nose and  
Still, we were not on an  other church groups behind the  ears and from the cuts in his  
island. There was a lot going  colleges.  face and scalp. A girl rushed  
on in Chicago, and, by the time  We didn't march far. As we  out, trying to make them stop,  
the Democratic Convention  got to Michigan Avenue, before  trying to pull him back to the  
came along in the summer of  we turned towards the Civic  sidewalk, and they surrounded  
1968, I had seen enough to  Center, the police stopped us  her and beat her, too. Next to  
know I wanted nothing to do  and informed us that the Civic  me, another fellow started for­ 
with it.  Center had been closed for  ward, but I put a hand on his  
My freshman year, Cream  repairs right after the Loyalty  shoulder and said, "Don't be an  
and the Mothers of Invention  Day rally and our parade per­ idiot" and he stopped. I don't  
appeared on a May 1 twin bill  mit was cancelled.  think he really wanted to be an  
at the Coliseum, and I needed a  So we had to walk on the  idiot.  
ride. So, when some people  sidewalks, crossing with the  The police riot went on for a  
decided to go into Chicago for  lights, which effectively broke  few hours. and then we drifted  
an anti-war demonstration and  up whatever leadership we had.  away. Two Domers, one with a  
then hit the concert, it sounded  As we rushed to get across dur­ broken collarbone, took shelter  
pretty good. I hated war, too.  ing the walk lights, people got  with some Kansas City busi­ 
There were a couple thou­ ahead or fell behind, and soon,  nessmen in their hotel room.  
sand people in the park by  we were marshalling an ad hoc  As we headed toward the  
Soldier Field, and we heard  group of Yippies and Methodist  Coliseum, carloads of blacks in  
speeches and milled around for  Women a.nd Mothers For Peace  this city of Blackstone Rangers  
awhile, waiting. A Loyalty Day  and college stragglers.  and Black Panthers passed us  
march· was scheduled for the  Meanwhile, at the head of the  by, fists in the air. grinning and  
morning, and our parade per­ crowd that was once a march,  yelling, "Now you know what  
mit didn't allow us on the  the police had spread out to  it's like!"  
streets until noon, to avoid a  stop any of us from crossing to  That was Chicago. When the  
clash of opinions at the Civic  the Civic Center. The college  Convention came along in  
Center. A lo.t of colleges had delega­tions marching under banners, but the small group of Domers there was on its own. Then I ran into a group of Yippies who were marching as the Neo­American Church, an ersatz religious group that made up ridiculous beliefs involving  groups crossed anyway. and things got downright ugly. We had telescoped up towards the Civic Center, and rumors drifted back as to what was going on up there as we tried to keep our people back on the sidewalk. Some of the police were begging us to coop­erate and others daring us to  August, the Chicago city fathers did the same thing on a grand scale that they had done to our march: Refused permits and hassled people until they creat­ed confusion, and then smashed heads. This time, though, the whole world was watching, including me. It was either get beaten or  fight back, and I had no desire noid fantasy. to do either. It was a pivotal moment in US So I stayed home and History, brought to you live and watched on television, as, six in color, by Chevy and your months after the Tet Offensive, local Chevy dealer. America lost the other half of the war, when Mom and Dad Pete Peterson '71 is reader­finally saw that what their chil­ship services manager with the dren had been telling them Press Republican. a daily news­about the police was no para­paper in Plattsburgh. New York.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  

ITS MARK, 
J.J.-He 7HINK? H8M16H7 
8136AY. 
~ 
OFCOURS&, 
Hf%6AY. rve!<fJOUJN JHATFOR 
YtAR5!~ 
T&u.HIMI HAV/3 WT5 Of 6AYF[iqt/11{)5, 
ANO!3l3li/3V£ ME, IT'S NOF3/G 
PEAL-. 
UM... J.J. PIJTHIMON SAYS IT'S 7H& PU,U.-OIJT NO 8/6 W. IU. CJJT !JeA/... H/SHAIR.IN 
~ 7HeMrFNIN6. 
~~~ 
yr~~ 
''sometimes love is stronger than a man's 
. . 
convtcttons. '' 
-Isaac Bashevis Singer 



ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 8, 1993 page 9 
An Ode to the Freshman Year 
G
reetings, all, and welcome to that heralded, long-awaited and completely overrated time of year that we all know and loathe ­"back to school." 
I suppose most of you seasoned upperclassmen are completely adjusted 
Melanie Waters 
by now and are undoubt­edly amusing yourselves Accent Columnist by watching the freshmen experience all of their col­lege "firsts." 
Being, of course, one of said peons, let me give you a brief view of life at the bottom -just in case you forgot how much fun our first taste of freedom has been. 
Like many of my dorm buddies, I am an only child hailing from your basic nice little suburb. (OK, I admit I'm from Cleveland, and I've heard every joke, but it really isn't that bad... ) The thought of waiting to use the phone, having to confine my pile of clothes, books, and trash to one side of the room, and meeting people who have never heard of Jimmy Buffett never entered my brain until they became grim reali­ties. 
Fortunately, I believe I've found a soul mate who knows what a "Cheeseburger in Paradise" is, and as yet haven't received that first deadly phone bill that will undoubtedly be in the "shriek-when-you-see-it" range. 
Mom and Dad were suffering some serious brain damage when they left me with a check­book, ATM and phone card all at once. This is like giving a compulsive gambler a million quar­ters, putting them in front of a slot machine, and telling them to budget their money wisely. After two weeks, I think I've spent all of my summer earnings just buying food and the ever­popular Notre Dame paraphernalia that leaps off every rack and shelf of the bookstore. 
Speaking of summer earnings, I've had the most pathetic conversations with people at the plethora of "freshman orientation mixers" we've been besieged with, all because of my summer "career." 
Jim (typical fresh-male, trying to look studly while carrying on a completely mindless conver­sation): "So, where are you from?" 
Me (marvelling at his clever and unusual pick­
up line): "Cleveland." 
Jim: "Oh, I'm sorry!" Jim doubles over with laughter at his unparalleled wittiness. "What do people do there?" 
Me: "Nothing exciting." (What am I supposed to say, "Oh, yeah, we worship cows and mush­rooms, but only every other week.") "I worked at Sea World all summer." 
Jim: (looking completely stupefied) "Are you 
by the ocean?" 
Uh, yeeaah, just a stone's throw from the old 
Atlantic, buddy. Does it scare anyone else to 
think that we admit people who don't know 
where Ohio is? 
Just for the record, I did not swim with 
Shamu, I've never met Willy, and Sea World 
does not look to the crystal clear waters of Lake 
Erie for its animal friends. 
Among other tidbits that I've quickly learned 
about college life: Doritos just don't cut it for 
breakfast, and one must push "start" to make 
the dryer work. I've never liked Nirvana all that 
much, but there's a lot to be said for the advan­
tage of grunge: it's now socially acceptable to 
look like you've just fallen out of bed and got 
dressed in a dark closet. This, of course, is 
exactly what I do each day, so let's hope the 
trend sticks around for a while. 
I hope the upperclassmen have been moved by 
this walk down memory lane, and that we con­
tinue to provide a rollicking source of entertain­
ment. And when you hear an ear-splitting howl 
from the third floor of Lyons hall, don't panic. 
It's just me opening my first phone bill. 
Melanie Waters is afreshmanfrom Cleveland, Ohio. She is a resident of Lyons Hall. Her col­umn will appear every third Wednesday. 

Comie Belie 

Bob Rumba will be the headlining comic at the premier Crack-Ups Comedy Cafe this Friday night. 
Saint Mary's brings laughter to campus with the Crack-Ups Comedy Cafe 
By THERESA CAUSA AND PATRICE MILLER 
Accent Writers 
The Crack-Ups Comedy Cafe, sponsored by the Student Activities Board, will be the biggest laugh on the Saint Mary's campus this semester. 
The first two professional comedians will showcase their talents for the Saint .\'-iary's community this Friday night. The first comedian to grace the Comedy Crack-ups stage will be Pat Francis, a touring comedian from the clubs of Chicago. Francis will be followed by the headliner, Bob Rumba. Rumba comes to Saint Mary's with a successful entertaining career to his credit. 
Besides being a comedian, Rumba is an impressionist, ventriloquist, juggler and balloon sculptor. 
He has appeared on television shows such as "Nightshirt" on Indiana Syndication and "Kids are People, Too" and"Bozo's Circus," both broadcasts out of Chicago. 
Hallmark Cards, Sunkist, United Airlines, Kellogg's Corn Flakes and Hubba Bubba Bubble Gum have all featured Rumba in television commercials. 
Rumba has acted in Theater productions such as "Showboat" and "Bye, Bye Birdie." 
"Roxy", "Zanies", "Comedy Womb", "Caroline's" and "Punchinello's" are just a few of the comedy clubs where Rumba has entertained audiences. 
Rumba has opened for Neal Sadaka, Larry "bud"
'''VJenow have the funding to bring VV the higher quality activities to the Saint Mary's campus." 
Heidi Deckelmann 
Melman, Emo Philips, Judy Tenuta and others. 
According to Heidi Deckelmann, the entertainment chairperson of Student Activities Board, the opportunity for the Crack-Ups Comedy Cafe is a direct result of the increase in the student activities fee. 
"We now have the funding to bring the higher quality activities to the Saint Mary's campus," Deckelmann said. 
Heather Robinson, a junior from LeMans Hall, said that the program sounds interesting enough that she plans on attending. 
Student Activities Board hopes that many other students feel the same way, in order to make the event a great suc­cess. 
"It's nice to have more social opportunities available to us right here on campus," said Ellen Chiu, a Saint Mary's junior. 
The comedians that will be featured throughout the semester are selected through the Midwest Comedy Express, located in Mishawaka. Future comedians will be announced at a later date. 
There will be a $2 admission fee for the Crack-Ups Comedy Cafe. Pretzels will be served and for 50 cents you will receive a cup that you can refill with drinks as often as you want. 
Crack-Ups Comedy Cafe, continuing from this Friday night's debut, will be presented one Friday night each month. Future dates are for the Fridays of Oct. 1, Nov. 5, Dec. 3, Feb. 4, Mar. 18, and Apr. 15. The shows will run from 9 to 11 p.m. in the Saint Mary's dining hall. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1993 

Cuomo says threat is for real 
teams like Butler we can get "Butler played great," said away with, but not against Irish head coach Chris

Soccer 
some of the other teams we Petrucelli. "Their emotion car­play." ried them through most of the continued from page 16 
One particular game highlight game. They're a difficult team for the Irish was the contain­to beat." 
to grab a stray shot, and rifled ment of Bulldog sensation Chris The Irish outshot the Bulldogs it into the net. 
Johnson. "(Notre Dame de­8-2 in the second half for a 18­"I just pretty much ran into fenseman) Andi (Kurek) did a 6 overall advantage. Freshmanthe keeper and prayed," said great job," said Blitz, "and the keeper J.en Renola, who is an­Hartwig. "I rlon't think she even rest of the Notre Dame defense other first-year sensation, start­saw me." 
stepped over when necessary." ed her second consecutive"I thought we played well," Johnson was held to one shot game and saved both Butler
said junior defender Jill 
over the final sixty minutes of shots to earn her first career
Matesic. "We lost intensity 
play. shut out.
some times, which against 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
George Steinbrenner is will­ing to make good on his threat to move the Yankees out of Yankee Stadium, New York Gov. Mario Cuomo said. 
"I believe the Yankees intend to move. I am doing everything I can to persuade them to stay," Cuomo said. 
The attendance at the Yankees' last homestand was disappointing even though they are in a close race for first place. None of the three week­end games against Cleveland drew more than 30,000. 
New York City officials began scrambling when Steinbrenner said low attendance might prompt him to move the team from Yankee Stadium. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from I 0 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
Typing 287-4082 
WANTED: Students to paint my house; experience preferred. 287-7519 
ILOST & FOUNDI 
Lost: Student Football tix Row 43, Sec 30 x1723 
MY RED-PURPLE SPECIALIZED HARD ROCK MOUNTAIN BIKE WAS STOLEN OUT OF CAVANAUGH LATE MONDAY NIGHT. CALL TIM AT 1470 IF YOU KNOW ANYTHING. 
Lost-NO class of '45 ring. Initials 
T.P.B. Inside. Blue stone. Reward. Call Dr. Bergin@ 631-6214. 
LOST; A GOLDEN DOME CHARM FROM A NECKLACE-VERY IMPORTANT. LOST ON 9/3 IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X-4777. 


WANTED 
EXTERIOR PAINTERS Experienced Student Painters needed to paint South Bend area homes. Full or Part nme. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 1-800-626·6267. "pelntlng America's homes coast to coasr 
LOOKING FOR A LIVE-IN SUPER­VISOR FOR 2 TEENAGE BOYS, PARENTS TRAVELING. MUST BE RESPONSIBLE, MATURE AND NON-SMOKER AND LIKE TEENAGERS. SALARY NEGO­TIABLE. TELEPHONE FOR APT. 778-2515. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI SELL ONLY 8 TRIPS & GO FREEl BEST TRIPS & PRICES! BAHAMAS, CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­678-63861 
$$$$ 
Looking for a 1993 NO football sea­son ticket bookletllll lhanksll call 284-5115 
$$$$ 
LOOKING FOR A RESPONSIBLE & HONEST YOUNG LADY TO WORK IN WOMAN'S BOUTIQUE. HOURS FLEXIBLE, PREFERABLY DAYS. STOP IN AT MCKEEL'S IN NORTH VILLAGE MALL OR CALL 273-4888 FOR MORE INFORMA· TION. IMMEDIATE START. 
Roomate needed at Turtle Creek. Glna4-2372 
7-Eieven Comer of Ironwood & Edison now laking applications for full lime and part-time work. All shifts available, please apply at the store 
WE HERE AT STUDI0-5 ARE 
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO 
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED 
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN 
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE 
10AM-6PM MON-FRI 
Babysitter Needed: Various week­days call if interested: 255-9094 
Yesterdays Food & Spirits, Granger, IN, hiring for: servers, bar­tenders, line cook. Exp. pref. but not nee. for info call 272-7017 
Newspaper carriers and branch managers needed for Notre Dame and St. Mary's campus. Call imme­diately for available positions: 232­3205. 
Babysitter with experience, trans­portation and references needed part-time days and evening in NO professor home. Please call 232­2201. 
TRAVEL FREEl CANCUN, JAMAICA, FLORIDA, S. PADREI SELL RELIABLE SPRING BREAK 
PACKAGES! BEST COMMIS­SIONS/SERVICE! SUN SPLASH TOURS 1·800-426-7710 
GREEKSICLUBSISTUDENT GROUPS! Raise as Much as You Want In One Weeki $100...$600... $15001 Market Applications for Citibank VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your FREET-SHIRT and to qualify for FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING BREAK '94. CALL 1·800·932-0528, EXT. 65. 
IF YOU WANT PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA @ 50% OFF AND YOU'RE 
LOOKING FOR A PART TIME JOB... PAPA JOHN'S is now hiring inside personnel and delivery drivers. 
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES. 15-20 hr/wk and 20-full time hr/wk posi­tions available. Set schedules also available. 5-7 inside positions and 10-15 driver positions available. Stop in PAPA JOHN'S @ 54533 Terrace Lane or call271-1177. 
EOE. 
I need ride to Penn State any non-home football weekend. Will pey gas and tolls, etc. 
Please call nm at X2032 
Need volunteers NO and SMC girls to coach and referee for Sat. morn­ing flag football program for kids ages 7 -13 starting Sept. 11. Call Paul Roy 232-2794. 
NEEDED 3 PITT TIX X2558 TARA 
FREE TRIP TO ACAPULCO become a representative for Bianchi-Rossi Tours for Spring Break 1994. Eam a tree trip plus commission. Call for details 1-800­875-4525 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching basic con­versational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to $2000-$4000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other bene­fits. No previous training or teaching certificate required. For more infor­mation call: (206)632-1146 ex1. J5584 
BRUNO'S PIZZA needs PT Hostesses and Drivers (for Campus Deliveries) Call John at 288-3320. 

FOR RENT 
FURNISHED ROOM FOR RENT. $150/MO. 287-2159. 
6 BEDROOM HOME. 2 BATHS, WALK TO CAMPUS. $135 MO. 
PER PERSON. 2 BEDROOM, $295 MO. 
1 BEDROOM. $225 MO. ALL PROPERTIES NEAR CAM­
PUS & 9 MO. LEASE AVAILABLE. 
272-6306. 
WEEKENDS-RIVERFRONT NEW HOUSE OR APT. 257-9101. 
2 ROOMS FOR RENT ON FOOT­
BALL WKNDS. 2 MI. FROM ND. 
NICELY DECOR. PREFER AGE OVER 30. $100/NIGHT/ROOM. 277-8340. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 Furnished house, Roseland, 3-4 Bedroom. Good neighborhood 277-3097 
BED AND BREAKFAST in private home. 2 twins, single w/ separate bath-1 0 min from campus. Reasonable 234-2626 
GRAD HOUSING NOT WORKING OUT? TRY A PLACE IN THE GAR­DEN. TWO ROOMS LEFT. $210,$235. EAST RACE AREA. JOB, BIKE, BUS. 232-8444. 
HOME-BASED B&B ALLIANCE. NICE ACCOMMODATIONS. 271-0989 24 HOUR ANSWERING MACHINE. 

FOR SALE 
COLOR TV RENTALS: 19",two semesters, $99.95 delivered. 13", two semesters, $69.95 delivered. Collegiate Rentals, 272-5959. 
Washer & dryer: full-size Kenmore, while, good condition: 3-cycle washer, electric dryer. Ready to go. $200 each or $300 for both. Jeff 288·3878 after 6 pm. 
SEC. 28 STUD. TIX blo x3027 
SOFA FOR SALE Sleeper sofa in GREAT cond. Dan 232-7242 
Senior Ticket Book for sale. Call 232-2263 or 273-1035, leave name, ph#, & offer. 
PacBell 640K RAM w/ color mon.IBM compat...internal modem 
3.2 DOS call 282-1190 
Chairs $7-Pole lamp $10­Bedspread/drapes $25. Lv Msg 234-8969 
WORD PROCESSOR PANASON­IC W-1510, $250 EXCELLENT CONDITION 289-2537 
FOR SALE: 19"TV, 13" TV $100ea. o.b.o.; cube fridge $75 o.b.o. All in great cond. 232-7674 
FOR SALE: ONE WAY TIC FROM SOUTH BEND TO BOSTON­MUST BE USED BEFORE SEPT30. MAKE ANY OFFER X4953 ASK FOR KATE OR WENDY 

TICKETS 
I NEED NO GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272-6306 
NEED 2 FSU TICKETS HELP! • ND/FSU MARRIAGE (904) 398-6146. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 FSU TICKETS (904) 398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Help! Need 2 Ga's for PITT, BC, or USC. call x4-3650 
NEED 2 OR MORE TICKETS FOR EITHER 10/23 USC 11/13 FSU OR 11/20 BC CALL MARK CAT 1 800 543 0357 
WANTED TWO GA OR MARRIED STUDENT TICKET TO ANY HQME GAMES. JOHN 800 258-6524 EXT1152 
NEED ALL TICKETS 271-8641 KEVIN I need 2 USC GA's. X-1653 
Need Pitt GA's-call ext 3756, katie 
For Sale: 1 stud. ticket for FSU. Make best offer of multiple tix or $. 4-4310 
Will give first-born son for four USC tickets. Student or GA's. Call Bob at 273-0620. 
Desperately seeking tickets for Pittsburgh and Florida State. Call Rich 277-4769 
I need MSU or Pitttix. Please call Kevin at X4469. 
NEEDTIXII 4 MICH. STATE GA's CALL Merrie X4544 
WANTED: DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 2 SETS OF STUDENT TIX (MARRIED PREF). CALL BRIAN 708-843-6947. 
WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. 272-7233. 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 277-1659. 
Need 1 MSU stud or GA call Kavita x4520 
Need student tickets and FSU GA's. please ca114-3281. 
$$ HELP! NEED 2 MSU GA'S $$ PARENTS PAYING BIG MONEY NATALIE 273-0520 
BADLY NEED BYU GA'S AND 1 MSU GA. ASK FOR JOHN X4618. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING TICK­ETS! 2 GAs for Mich. State, FSU, and BC call: A. Raczkowski (800)442-2190 x7296. '91 alums with jobs -will pay big $$$1 
NEED 2 OR MORE MICHIGAN STATE GA'S CALL SCOTT X4074 
Will trade: 4 BC tix for 2 or 4 MSU tix. My kids can't take the cold. Bill (616) 329-2906 Kalamazoo 
NEED 2 MSU, USC, Or FSU TIX x3402 
I have 2 Boston College tickets (Nov. 20) which I will trade for 2 Florida State tickets. Please call Nick at 312-222-6464 
Need Pitttix. Call Sam x1695 
WANTED: SEASON GA TICKETS. 272-7233. 
Have GA's to all Home Games & Mich. Call 232-7316 from 7-8 p.m. 
Need 2 GAs for Pitt. Please call Mike at x41862. 
PLEASE HELP I need 1 student ticket lor MSU game. Please call Todd at X3661. 
NEED GA'S FOR MSU. USC, FSU, AND BC. JAY x1534 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PITT!! I CALL KELLY x4270 
I Need 6 to 8 Pitt GA's -ext. 1620 askforJon 
WILL TRADE ROUND TRIP TICKET TO SAN FRAN. (STANFORD!) FOR 2 USC GA TIXIII MIKE at X1573 
I need 2 G.A.'s for Pitt 
And 2 G.A.'s for MSU. Will pay top dollar! !Ill Call Tom 273-8355. 
Need two oor three MSU GA's and two Pitt GA's. Ask for Bill. 234­8293. 
Trade 2 or 3 Mich State GA's for 2 or 3 Pitt GA's. Bob 277-2510 
Need 1 Pitt GA. Call x2969 Lisa 
Student football ticket booklet for 
sale. Call Laurie x3490 
Need Mich. St. & USC 
G.A.s call Mike x0600 
SELLING MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS BOOKLET 271·1998 
SELLING MARRIED STUDENT TICKET BOOKLET. 232 4827 
NEED FSU & USC Gas or my parents will DISOWN me please help Kyle 288-5282 
I NEED MICHIGAN TIX 1477 
4 SALE MSU STUDENTS 232-3736 
Sell 2 booklets; 2 GAs:Pits,USCs. 272-7034 
Need MSU GA or Stud will trade Pitt or USC or Cash CALL x1744 
Have 1 MICHIGAN GA for sale CALL x1463 and leave message 
$ Feverish Alumni in need of 4GAs for USC. Call Tommaso X1480 $ 
NEED 2 USC TICKETS CALL JULIE AT 284-5511 
I NEED 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 634-1862. 
HELPII NEED USC AND FSU TIX. CALL KEV. X1689 
NEED PITT & FSU TIX. CHRIS x1815 
WANTED-tickets for NO· MICHIGAN (sept. 11,away) call Chris at232-7315 $ 
want to buy std. ticket booklets. call 233-5130. ask for mike. pleasel$1$1$ 
I NEED MICHIGAN TIX. KELLY X4270 
NEED 2 OR 3 MSU TICKETS. WILL BUY OR WILL TRADE 2 PITT TICKETS. (412)741-4059. 
For Sale: 2 stu. ftball booklets. Call Ann@ 4-2689 
$$ I NEED 2 USC Ga's will pay good money. call Eric x1777 $$ 
I HAVE 1 MSU STUD TIX 4 SALE CHRIS 271-7807 
NEED GA FB TIX TO ALL HOME ND GAMES CALL AARON X1868 
Need 4 MSU GAs. Have 4 BC GAs to trade/sell. Lisa 273-6032 
Profanely Wealthy Notre Dame Fanatic Needs 2 Pitt GAs. Call Pat at x1550 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 FSU TIC WILL OFFER MY ROOMMATES SERVICES... X4953 ASK FOR KATIE OR WENDY HELP! I need 1 or 2 MSU STU­
DENT TICKETSIII Call Martin at 
273-4185. 
HELPI I need 1 or 2 MSU STU. 
TICKETS! Call Martin at 273-4185 
HELPI I need 1 or 2 MSU STU. TICKETS! Call Martin at 273-4185 
FOR SALE: 2 STUD. BOOKLETS 
ext. 3800 
I need 2 MSU tixl Lisa x 2569 
PERSONAL 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
SEAMAISIN every Tuesday at The Madison Oyster Bar. Bring friends. 
Huntington Graphics presents AN EXHIBITION & SALE OF FINE ART PRINTS-The sale includes 100's of different art prints by DALI, MATISSE, MONET, PICASSO, RENOIR, VAN GOGH & many oth­ers; rock posters; movie stars; M.C. McEscher prints; black & white pho­tography + scenic & wildlife photos. TODAY, 9 AM-5PM NOTRE DAME ROOM 2nd floor, Lafortune. 
MOST PRINTS: $7 each · 3 prints for only $171 
who's got the bananas? 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey all you off-campus PWites .... 
Meet the new rector at the back to school barbeque at the pit on Wednesday evening. 
That's a free meal (actually $.25) ... 
Come meet Sr Sue and the fresh ... Call April at 2773 If you have ??? 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
THINKING ABOUT SERVICE NEXT YEAR? COME TO THE POST-GRAD FAIR! THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30TH CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­CERNS 7-10PM OVER 40 PROGRAMS REPRE­SENTED TO PROVIDE YOU WITH INFORMATION! 
SENIOR RAP-UP GROUP SIGN-UPS AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON­C,ERNS 
DEADLINE: OCTOBER 1 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
The barbeque is today .... 
Come meet Sr. Sue and the fresh­men and the transfers at the pit tonight at 5:30 ... 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
---~ ---~---------~-­
--~---------------~----------~------------------------------------------~-----------..---~ 
Wednesday, September 8, 1993 The Observer· MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Talented Irish team opens season 
By SEAN SULLNAN Sports Writer 
The University of Notre Dame men's cross country team is currently ranked No. 7 in the nation by College Sports magazine. The Irish will be led this year by team captain and three-time All-American Mike McWilliams. 
Coach Joe Piane is once again at the helm for the Irish and is expectedly optimistic about his 1993 squad. 
"They're every bit as good as last year's squad and may even be better," said Piane, who thinks that this year's team is strong due in great part to the sophomore class. Derrik Seiling, Andrew Burns, Joe Dunlop and Mike Smedley are among the sophomore standouts who impressed the coach last year as freshmen. 
In the past two years there 'has been one sophomore who has greatly improved his times over his freshman year. Two years ago it was McWilliams, who after winning All­American honors as a freshman, improved his times as a sophomore. Last year it was Nate Ruder who dramatically improved over his freshman year. Will there be another sophomore to continue this streak? 
"Any of our top sophomore runners can step up and assume that role," stated Piane. 
This past Thursday the team had time tri­als, using the four mile run as a barometer of the team's strength going into the first meet. 
"The team did well at the time trial," said 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Last year the team finished sixth in the NCAA championships and although currently ranked No.7, many feel that this year's team has as much if not more potential than last year's squad. 
"As far as potential, I've never been this optimistic," said McWilliams. And with just reason. 
Ruder ran a 14:06 5K at the NCAA track championships last year, and may well be vying for the top position on the Irish squad this year. Other great performances includ­ed J.R. Meloro's 30:12 10K and Derek Seiling's 9:01 3000m steeple chase. 
Notre Dame will be put to the test early as 1@~:::;:; 
they face the eighth-ranked Georgetown Hoyas for the season opener. The meet will be on Saturday, September 11 at 10:30 a.m. -~--···w"'Wff/~ 
in Washington, D.C. 
"It should be one hell of a meet," said Piane, "Our success in the race will rest on the performance of our third, fourth and fifth 
runners." The Observer/Kyle Kusek Three-time All-American Mike McWilliams (middle) and junior John Cowan (left) 
are top performers for the Irish this year. 
Men's tennis practice begins Women's tennis tryouts will Notre Dame Sports varsity sports. For more infor-
Thursday September 9. be Thursday September 9 at lnformation is looking for vol-mation, call Rose at 631-7516. 
Tryouts for all walk-ons will 3:00 at the Courtney Tennis unteer help for the 1993-94 
begin at 3:30. Anyone inter­Center. Anyone interested in academic year. Our office han­ND Rugby Club practices 
ested should contact the tennis trying out MUST contact the dles statistics, press releases everyday at 4:15 at Stepan 
office at 1-6113 or 1-4841. tennis office at 1-5149. and media guides for all Irish Field anyone interested in com-
r----------------------------------------, ing must bring a mouthpiece
and cleats. 
All track athletes interested in the indoor or outdoor season: there will be a meeting on Sept. 9 at 4:30 in Loftus. 

ATTENTION JUNIORS! 
The ND/SMC Equestrian Club will hold its frrst meeting for both old and new members Thurs. Sept 9 at 7:00 p.m. in
Class Rings Are Ready 
Room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. Bring money and insurance. For more info call Megan at 634-2812.
To Be Picked Up! 
Men's and women's varsity diving tryouts are being held from Wed. to Fri. at 4:00-5:30 
p.m. in Rolfs Natatorium. For questions call Adam or Randy at 631-8455.
Please Come To The Ring 
Interested in Rowing? The ND Rowing Club will hold an

Department In The Rear Of The 
informational meeting for inter-

Store. Student Charge Forms Must Be Pre-Approved At Any Register 
1:45 ~~ ~~~ 9:00 12:45 3:~~,1~~30 10:00 
Needful Thlngo 
2:00 4:30 7:00 9:45 
Secret Garden 
12:30 2:30 4:45 6:45 6:45

Before Picking Up Your Ring. 
Sleepl-ln Suhle 
12:30 2:45 5:00 7:15 9:30 Son InLow 1:00 3:00 5:00 7:00 9:15 
Ring Office Hours For Ring Pick Up Will Be 
ested people Thursday, Sept. 9 at 7:30 in Room 118 Niewland. No experience necessary. 
Women's safety and self­defense-Course objective is to expose women to basic self­defense techniques as used in real-life situations. Classes begin Monday, September 13. 10 sessions on Mondays and Wednesdays, 6:30-7:45 PM, Rockne Rm. 219. Class size is limited and open to stu­dents/faculty/staff and requires a $9.00 fee. For more infor­mation call631-6100. 
Shorin-RYU Karate-Students are instructed according to Okinawan techniques. Classes begin Monday, September 13, and run throughout the semes­ter on Mondays imd Wednesdays 4:30-6:00 and requires a $15.00 fee. Demonstration; Wednesday, Sep~ember 8, 5:.00 PM in Rockne 301. For more infor­mation call631-6100 
SCUBA diving course­YMCA lifetime certification. Classes begin Sunday, September 12. Seven class­room and pool sessions meeting on Sundays 3:30-7:30 PM Important information meet­ing Wednesday, September 8, 
6:00 PM in Rockne 218. For more information call 631­6100. 
Biathlon-1/2 mile swim and 2 mile run. Saturday, September 11, 10:30 AM at St. Joe Beach. Three divisions: Varsity, Non­varsity, and Team. Register in advance at RecSports. For more information call 631­6100. 
Sept. 7, 1993 -Sept. 10, 1993 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
otre 
ame 
ncouqter 
... TONIGHT! 
The Hammes 
4TH DAY MEETING 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IIon the campus II 7:15 Stanford-Keenan Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Kick Off the New Year with a Bang! 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 1993 

_, After Big 10 debut, Paterno moves on to face Southern Cal 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
With all the hoopla o;rer after Penn State's first Big Ten game, coach Joe Paterno hopes his team doesn't suffer a letdown heading into Saturday's game with Southern Cal. 
"I think all of us are enthu­siastic," Paterno said. "We're all having a good time." 
The Lions are coming off a 38-20 win over Minnesota, while the Trojans are 1-1 with a 31-9 loss to North Carolina and last Saturday's 49-7 win over Houston. 
,.. 
Paterno said he thought USC was a tired team against North Carolina. The Houston win con­firmed that. 
"They were much quicker," Paterno said. "There is no question of their ability and they appear to be an outstand­ing football team." 
··"·····~~~ 
The Observer/David Hungeling 
Freshman Cindy Daws scored her first collegiate goal last night and also added an assist. 

~ SATURDAY LjSEPTEMBER 11, 1993 
10:30 AM STw JOE BEACH 
1/2 MILE SWIM 2 MILE RUN THREE DIVISIONS: 
w!Arm®aLrv lNl© OOo W£lm ®TliW 
Lr~~[M] 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS [ 


ri'-l 
631-6100 FOR MORE INFO }~ 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1994 -95 Academic Year 
GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Paul McDowell 
TIIURSIMY, SEPTt:MIIER 9, 1993 7 P.M. ROOM 114 O'SIIAUGIINK'iSY 
lldurning shnlcrtl~ will M on hmul lo nnswrr ((ll(·~limrs 
"They are a very physical, hard-nosed running football team," Paterno said. "They come at you with a lot of run­ning backs. 
"I don't see anything different now than I did in the Fiesta Bowl." 
The 1982 Fiesta Bowl was the last time Paterno and Robinson coached against each other. The Lions won 26-10. 
The last two times the Lions played USC were anything but memorable for Penn State. 
In 1990 and 1991 Penn State traveled to California and lost both times. After the Minnesota 
Daws 
continued from page 16 
Notre Dame campus. "She can do it all. She is the most com­plete player we have." 
Daws has played with a num­ber of Irish players on the na­tional level. Current Irish starters Ragen Coyne and Rosella Guerrero played with Daws on national teams. But even knowing her teammates doesn't take away from the jit­ters which accompany the home debut of a player counted on to such a degree. 
"I had a little butterflies. It was exciting to have the fans out there and the support," she said. "But the team is real good at making the freshman feel part of the team and getting them into the college game." 
It's hard to believe Daws had any adjusting to do from her high school days. Her ball-han­dling skills stand out on the field, and her knowledge of 
game, some Penn State players said they owed USC. 
"We went out twice and got licked twice," Paterno said. "You don't want anybody to beat you three or four times in a row." 
After watching the films of the Minnesota game, Paterno said the Lions still need im­provement everywhere. One of the areas of concern was the lack of a pass rush. 
The Lions didn't come close to sacking Minnesota quarter­back Tim Schade, but inter­cepted four passes. 
where her teammates are at all times is evident in her deft passing. 
"Cindy played like I know she can," said Petrucelli. "She cer­tainly is as good as advertised." 
At halftime of last night's game a girl's junior team from South Bend played a ten minute game on half of the field. The tiny girls seemed smaller than the ball they were kicking, but it didn't seem to phase them. They just wanted to score. It didn't matter how it got there. they just wanted to reach the back of the net. No matter how it done, its still a goal. 
Even for the best freshman in the nation. 
~ GO REAUY IRISH!
;,r. Ireland Program 



,..1. 



i!i ~ 
I
!i!
iI I 
"l thought the secondary played well," Paterno said. "(Schade) was tough to get be­cause of his three step drop." 
Paterno said he would con­tinue to use the three-tailback rotation of Mike Archie, Stephen Pitts and Ki-Jana Carter. A lot, however, depends on the fullback position, which has been hit with injuries. 
Brian O'Neal played Saturday. but hasn't returned to top form because of a broken bone in his foot. Brian Milne saw limited time as he recovers from a concussion suffered dur­ing the first week of practice. 
INFORMATION SESSIONS: 
September 7  September 8  
7:00p.m.  7:00p.m.  
Mongomery Theatre  Game Room  
LaFortune Student Center,  Haggar CollegeCenter  
Notre Dame University  Saint Mary's College  

Students ctiscuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17! 

Wednesday, September 8, 1993 The Observer • BASEBALL page 13 

Whiten explodes for four homers, 12 RBI's in one game 
By JOE KAY to tie a major-league record history as St. Louis beat Associated Press Tuesday night and drove in 12 Cincinnati 15-2 in the second runs to equal another mark in game of a doubleheader. CINCINNATI perhaps the greatest one-game Whiten misplayed Reggie Mark Whiten hit four homers offensive display in baseball Sanders' liner into a two-run, 

Michigan Road Trip 
Catch the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan September 11th 
Round trip bus transportation to Michigan Stadium (bus leaves at 6 a.m. from CCE) Donuts and juice provided 
Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info Desk Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 7 

As aMarine Officer, }00 could be in charge ofa afreshman or sophomore, ask about our tmder-Mach 2+ FIA-lBA, avertical take-offHarrieror graduate officer rommissioning programs. If}OO're a one ofourother jets or heliropters. And }00 could jwlior, check out our graduate programs. Starting doitbythetime}OO're23. Butittakesaspedal salaries are from $22,000 to $32,000. And«)commitment on }OOr part We you can count on . OOnand k2Jers a1 all levels. P 0 J:~IB .J..J.~., going farther fuster ~~}OOtobeone.If}OO're Ui .l.ilJUlt,~••• TbeFNTheProod.TheMsrines. 
faster. 
Congratulations to seniors Geny Boyle, Michelle Jennings, Howie Lanser and to junior Tim Young on their graduations from Officer Candidates School. Capt Dennis Hollahan will be at the LaFortune Center Tuesday and Wednesday from 10:00 to 2:00. Stop by or calll-800-945-3088. 
ninth-inning triple that gave the Reds a 14-13 victory over St. Louis in the first game. 
Whiten shook it off with his four-homer, 12-RBI game per­formance. 
On a night when records fell or tottered, Whiten did most of the pushing. 
The teams used a major­league record 15 pitchers in the first game. Ninety-eight batters saw 350 pitches. There -were five blown leads, 27 runs, 36 hits, and 13 walks scattered in. 
Whiten's two-run homer off 
Rob Dibble in the ninth inning 
enabled him to tie Jim 
Bottomley's league record with 
12 RBis. The last major leaguer 
to hit four homers was 
Atlanta's Bob Horner in 1986. 
Whiten, 25, in his third major 
league season, was acquired 
from the Cleveland Indians on 
March 31 for pitcher Mark 
Clark and shortstop Juan 
Andujar. He began his career 
with the Toronto Blue Jays. 
He now has 22 home runs 
and 87 RBis this season. 
In the frrst inning of the sec­
ond game, he hit his second ca­
reer grand slam and his frrst in 
Marten 
continued from page 16 
notches below Michigan, just as we were in 1988. If they could beat them then, they can beat them now. 
The composition of the 1988 Irish team and this year's team is similar. In an article from that aforementioned Irish Extra, Lou Holtz said of the '88 squad, "Defense has got to be the cornerstone of this football team." Flash forward to the future and he is saying, "The strength of our team is obvious­ly our defense," at last week's press conference. 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Account Executive 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Anne Heroman as soon as possible. Contact Anne at 631-8840 for more information. 

-· 
• 
the NL off Larry Luebbers (2-4). After fouling out in his next at­bat, he added three-run homers in the sixth and seventh off Mike Anderson, who was mak­ing his major-league debut. 
Bob Tewksbury (16-8) held the Reds to seven hits for the split. 
In the opener, the Reds ral­lied from a four-run deficit in the last two innings, with the winning run scoring when Whiten let Sanders' liner bounce past him with one out in the ninth for two runs. 
The first game alone ex­
hausted the pitchers and ev­
eryone who had to watch them. 
"I thought I used 15 all by 
myself," Cardinals manager Joe 
Torre said. 
"Holy moly," Reds manager 
Davey Johnson said. "And it's 
not like we were quick-hooking 
them." 
The Cardinals rolled up seven 
runs in the eighth for a 13-9 
lead that appeared safe. The 
main problem in that inning 
was Dibble, who gave up a 
game-tying single and walked 
two batters. 
He wasn't kidding then or now as Bryant Young, Pete Bereich, Oliver Gibson and Brian Hamilton ably mirror the talents of Frank Starns, Chris Zorich and Ned Bolcar. 
In terms of offense, current Michigan head coach Gary Moeller continued the analogy for me when describing Kevin McDougal in a recent press release. "Kevin McDougal will remind you a lot of Tony Rice­and I can tell you we always had problems with Rice. McDougal doesn't run quite as well, but he throws the ball a lot better," said Moeller. 
As for Michigan, I'm sure this year's team will learn to deal with defeat as well as the Wolverine team of '88 did. 
,.------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 8, 1993
page 14 The Observer • WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Women runners set for Georgetown 
By BRIAN LEWIS 
SpomWriter 
Last year, the Notre Dame women's cross-country team were the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Champions. also capturing the National Catholic Invitational and the Indiana Intercollegiate meets. 
With most of last year's harri­ers back, the Irish are primed for another successful season in 1993, garnering a preseason ranking of 18th from Harrier's magazine. 
The top returners for the Irish are senior captain Laura Guyer and juniors Emily Husted and Sarah Riley. 
Two runners who will be join­ing the squad around midsea­son are junior Becky Alfieri and sophomore Amy Siegal. Alfieri had knee surgery this summer; Siegal was involved in a car ac­cident. 
Three other runners that will 
Flood stayed in Ireland this autumn. 
"In some ways it may work to our advantage," said coach Tim Connelly of the runners who are not returning, "because it will force some runners to step up." 
"Certain people have to step up and take their place, and we're capable of it. It's just a mental thing," added Guyer. Connelly noted that the team is in good shape from running distances over the summer. 
Big meets for the team this year will be the Notre Dame Invitational, the Michigan Invitational and the District Meet at Indiana University in Bloomington. Last year the team finished fourth out of 30 teams at the District meet and just missed advancing to the NCAA Championship meet by ten points. 
This year's Notre Dame Invitational will feature 
mile monument run through the capital city. 
Two freshmen will be run­ning this Saturday in Washington, D. C., Emily Hood and Carolyn Long. "They are going to be definite contribu­tors," sai~ Riley. 
Saturday's meet is the only dual meet of the season. "Georgetown is always a fun meet and we are looking for­ward to it," said junior Kristi Kramer. 
Despite the difference between Notre Dame and Georgetown in the rankings, the Irish are confident it will be a close race. 
"The thing about cross coun­try is that what's on paper isn't necessarily what happens." said Guyer. "It's just a matter of who's more ready to go when the gun goes off. " 

The Hungeling Juniors Sarah Riley (far left), Emily Husted (middle), and Kristi Kramer (far right) will lead the Irish women's cross-country team this season. 
not be with the team are Eva Flood, Kala Boulware, and Stefanie Jensen. All were top performers for the Irish last season. Jensen transferred to Stanford University closer to her South Lake Tahoe, Ca. home, Boulware chose to con­centrate on her studies, and  new cross country powers that did not run in the meet last year, such as Alabama, Auburn, and Clemson. This weekend, the Irish face their first challenge of the sea­son with a dual meet at No. 2 Georgetown. On Sunday, the ladies will join the men's team on a 10­Congratulations! Happy 21 g Birthday! We Love You, Carolyn! Mom, Dad, Boo and Robert  WANTED Tenors & Basses! for The Notre Dame Chorale & The Notre Dame Glee Club • varied repertory from the Renaissance to the present • great music-making • concerts, tours • have fun, meet people TO SCHEDULE AN AUDITION, CALL 631-.5105 ,.r Inquire in Room 105, Crowley Hall of Musk  


Michigan Ticket Lottery 
Winners may pick up their tickets between 1 and 6 pm today at the LaFortune 
Information Desk. The 5 alternates may purchase any leftover tickets on a first come, first served basis between 6 and 6:30. 
SUB is not responsible for any lost or stolen tickets. 
747010 747063 747097 747098 747127 747133 747143 747207 747381 
827095
747517 747533 747589 747614 747674 747711 747714 747804 827116 827123 827137 827180 827182 827309 827319 827329 827382 827429 827434 827590 827597 827621 827626 827638 827829 827852 
829381 
·-
829007 829038 829084 829119 829144 829234 829245 829361 829393 829395 829382 829440 829463 829486 829543 829563 829618 829666 829697 829732 833019 833050 833069 833130 833133 833142 833161 833170 833198 833215 833220 833273 833290 833304 833341 833348 833391 833417 833482 833508 833529 833530 833548 833587 833595 833614 833626 833689 833690 833695 833704 ALTERNATES: 747239 747667 829053 829748 833372 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

.­

TODAY 
Wednesday, September 8, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THEFARSIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON 



ACROSS 32 Butterine 59 Country singer 
OF INTEREST
Vince-­
33 Distributed1 Iowa college 
town pasteboards 60 Actor Jacobi 34 Gr. underground 61 Lake-, at
5 Pitcher movement in Orlando9 Bag or wine W.W.II 62Wild plum 13 Zhivago's lover 
35 Dangerous 63A Cather14 Embellish Atlantic area biographer 15 Faithful 
39 She raised Cain 64 Knot on a tree 16 Where to see 
40 Early Soviet Lord Nelson space probe DOWN19 Lengthy 
41 Mansard edge 20 A flower cluster 1Der­
42ln medias­21 Composer (Adenauer)
43 Nine inches 
Rorem 2 "Das Kapital" 
44 Pequod or Ahab 
author 46Fitto­
22 Door or foot 
follower 3 Part of Q.E.D. 47 Epoch
24 Poet or church 4 Pelf protector official 48 Result of haste 5 Trimmed the 28 Health resorts 51 Vigorous effort rim 29 Ex-parent of 56 Imaginary lineN 6 Blue dye NBC of South Pole 7 Sin 8 Hosp. group 9 Baffle ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Sinai dweller 11 Remedy 
timber 28 Become 46"-ofTwo 52 Tough trip prevalent Cities" 
53 Object of Standish 29 Stately 47 Be superior devotion 17--Domini 30 Memorable 48 Funny fellows 54 Stewpot DINING HALL • 18 "-o quella," French diva 49 Another blue 
55 Draw close to 
Verdi aria dye
31 Prince in Kabul 
57 B-F connection 
22 Flier from a fire 50 Capital of 
33 Mother of Manche
23 Anklebones Perseus 58 Turner or 51 Gael's land Danson
24 Staid; serious 
36 Loose overcoat 25 Ecole attendee 
37 Hornswoggle26 Where sherry 38 Teachers' gp. Get answers to any three cluesoriginated 44 Hesperus's fate by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­27 Kite or Watson 
45 Mata _ 5656 (75¢ each minute).
of golf 



Zero =Zero Alcohol. Especially if TWO QUICK QUESTIONS 
you're under 21 , driving, chemically 

.. 
dependent. on certain medications, 1. If someone were to ask you if you or pregnant.






ZER®
drank responsibly this past weekend, what would you say? 
One= One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. 

2. What is responsible drinking? 
e)NG
Here is how many health professionals define responsible drinking: Three = No more than three drinks per day, and never daily.


THR:: AND 
If you have any questions, please call the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970. 

SPORTS 
Wednesday, September 8, 1993 


Similarities to 1988 squad make this Irish 
•
team a wtnner 
S
ince bad-mouthing Notre Dame football seems to have become a fad these days, many sportswrit­ers are predicting a Wolverine attack that will 
leave Irish bits and pieces scattered all over the field. ! wouldn't put it in the books just yet. 
Despite my prognostication record, I think it might just be Michigan who has to reclaim the tattered remains of its pride on Saturday. I have made wild predic­tions in the past. but this time I have something to back up my claim. 
History. Jenny Marten 
Just for fun, let's return to the hopeful days shortly before the season opener against Michigan in 1988. The similarities between that squad and this year's edition of the football team are numer­ous, leading me to assume that the outcome will also be similar. 

For those who have forgotten, the Irish downed the Julie Harris and outside hitters Wolverines 19-17 in a tight battle which was won on a Jenny Birkner, Nicole Coates and last minute field goal by walk-on placekicker Reggie Christy Peters formed a wall that Ho. constantly frustrated the disorga-
But the match-ups of those two teams bear a striking nized Husky offense. resemblance to the match-ups of their 1993 counter-In the first game, the Irish ran out parl'i. to a quick 7-1 lead behind the 
According to the Irish Extra section of the September jump-serving of Brett Hensel and 9, 1988 Observer, Michigan was ranked 9th and Notre great quick sets by Janelle Karlan 
Dame was ranked 13th headed into the  now classic  to Molly Stark.  Stark was a domi­ 
game. This year, Michigan sits in the number three  nant force throughout the match,  
spot and, if it wasn't for the sportswriters who were  notching nine kills, three service  
experimenting with hallucinatory drugs when they  aces, six digs and three blocks.  
drafted this week's poll, we would be resting comfort­ "Molly did  a  really good job of  
ably in the number seven spot. (No team should fall  mixing her tips and her hits-she  

four spots in the poll for winning a game and they played extremely smart. We've wouldn't do it to anyone but Notre Dame.) worked with her on not swinging Without the drop, the Irish would be ranked four away on every ball, and tonight it 
1----------------------lpaid off," complemented Brown. see MARTEN I page 13 "Janelle and I haven't been con-
Inside SPORTS 

MEN'S CROSS 


WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY COUNTRY 
.. 
The Irish are paced by Sarah Riley is a topthree-time All-American 'returner for the Irish. 

Mike McWilliams. see page 11 see page 14 

Women's Soccer shuts down Butler 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team has started out on the right foot in their defense of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference crown by jumping to a 2-0 record with a 4-0 vic­tory last night against league rival Butler University. The Irish coasted past the Bulldogs in their home debut behind two goals and an assist from junior midfielder Jodi Hartwig. 
Ashley Scharff opened the Irish scoring just over eighteen minutes into the first half by tapping the deflection of a cor­ner kick into the top left corner of the net. Ragen Coyne and Tiffany Thompson a,ssisted on the goal. 
The Irish, who outshot the Bulldogs 10-4 in the first half, controlled the ball almost flaw­lessly for the remainder of the period. 
Hartwig's first goal of the evening came off a Thompson corner kick which was first de­flected by Alison Lester. With 
7:28 remaining in the half, it gave the Irish a 2-0 advantage. 
The squad, which displayed occasional lapses in intensity throughout the match, came out slow in the second half and mustered few offensive attacks 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Sports Writer 

Opening at home against a respected opponent, the Notre Dame volleyball team could not have asked for a better result, pounding the University of Washington Huskies in three straight games 15­
4, 15-12, 15-5 at the Joyce Center. 
"We played real­ly well all around," noted head coach Debbie Brown, who has yet to lose a home open­er at the Irish 


helm. "Our. back row attack was outstanding, which was a direct result of our much improved side-out offense. We also served extremely well, which helped our defense get established." 
The Irish defense was closer to impenetrable than established, as middle-blockers Molly Stark and necting well lately, so tonight I tried to stay off the net and give her space," explained Stark. 
The second game saw the Irish fall behind as the pace slowed down significantly. However, numerous service errors by the Huskies combined with the jump serving and kills of Coates. who established herself on the outside, led the Irish to a hard-fought win. 
"We had a bit of a lull in the second game, but we returned to our high energy in the third to finish it off," noted setter Karlan, who added to her impressive career totals with her Irish­record 4,000 assist. "I just tried to set who was hot and use every · one of the hitters." 
The hottest hitter for the Irish [ all night was junior All-America candidate Christy Peters, who dominated the third game, time and again pounding kills into the UW defenders. She ended the match with a team high 17 kills in 34 attacks, for an outstanding .412 percentage. "Christy really picked up from this weekend and played the way we knew she could," added Brown. 
Another carryover from the weekend was the Irish defense, which had 51 digs and 12 blocks. "Unlike most teams, we really like to play defense, because we know the only way we'll be able to attack is to get balls off the floor. As a team, we're well bal­anced between offense and defense," commented Stark. 
Up next for the Irish will be this weekends Reebok Challenge in 
Lisle, II., as they will face two <{W),/ highly ranked teams, potentially . . The Observe~/Jak? Peters going against No. 1 Long Beach Jumor Chnsty Peters had 17 k1lls m last 
State. 
Newcomer Daws opens home career 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Ediwr 
Notre Dame freshman Cindy Daws' first goal at Alumni Field was not representative of the 1992 high school player of the 
year. 
With the Irish ahead 2­0 midway through the second half, Daws beat her defender 


and with 30-Cindy Daws yards sepa­rating her and the net, she did what the best player ever recruited at Notre Dame should do. She kicked it right at the goalie. 
"I kicked it right to her. I don't really know what hap­pened. I guess it must have 
during the first ten minutes. Bulldog goalkeeper and gave 
Freshman phenom Cindy Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. Daws, who was labeled "the A hustling Hartwig capped best player on the field" by the Irish scoring with just un­Butler coach Bryan Blitz, pulled der fifteen minutes left in the the Irish out of their daze with contest when she stole the ball her first collegiate goal. Coming from the the unsuspecting thirteen minutes into the half, Butler keeper, who had trotted the 30-yard blast glanced off about twenty-five feet out of net the hands of the sprawling 
see SOCCER I page I 0 dipped and ran past her," said the Los Angeles native. 


Irish fans can take note; fu­ture goals from the Irish fresh­man will come in bunches and certainly be more exciting. 
"Cindy Daws was fantastic tonight," said Butler coach Bryan Blitz. "She was the best player on the field. She is a blue chip recruit for Notre Dame and coach Chris Petrucelli." 
Somehow Petrucelli drew Daws from the proven success of North Carolina to the up-in­coming Irish. She has shown from the day she stepped on Notre Dame's campus that she was worth the billing. 
"She is the Ron Powlus o women's soccer," Petrucelli said in reference to the other heralded freshman on the 
see DAWS I page 12 

night's victory over Washington. 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Penn State coach Joe Paterno prepares for 
usc. 
see page 12 



