


Monday, September 27, 1993• Vol. XXVI No. 21 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTI\E DAME AN[) SAINT MARY'S 
Brown attended meetings with Vietnam conspirator 
Nunn calls for narrowing American military presence in Somalia 
Saint Mary's freshmen class to elect officers 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's 1997 class will be electing their president, vioe-president and class board this Tuesday and six tickets are running for the top posts, ac­
cording  to  Elections  
Commissioner  Elizabeth  
Broghammer.  

The six tickets are: 

•Ganna 
Breland/Alaina Higginbotham 

•Leslie 
Field/Jennifer Augustine 

• 
Lori Langenderfer!Melissa Sanchez 

•Kara 
Masucci/Maria McCauley 

•Beth 
Ann Miller/Becky Kellogg 

•Anna 
Rafaj/Emily Ruffner 



"We want freshman class unity and representing every­one's class ideas. We want strong communication," said vice-presidential candidate, Emily Ruffner. Ruffner and Rafaj's goals include volunteer activities such as Adopt-A­Child. 
"First of all, getting call-wait­ing in all dorms is our most important goal," said presiden­tial candidate, Leslie Field. Field and Augustine have al­ready contacted some Notre Dame senior officers to see how they helped implement call­waiting at Notre Dame. 
"We do realize it will be a lot of work but we'll do the best we can to get it through," said Field. 
According to vice-presidential candidate, Becky Kellogg, establishing a pride in Saint Mary's is one of her ticket's goals. "I think we can accom­plish this by doing freshman class things like masses or dances," said Kellogg. 
Associated Press 
. MIAMI 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Ron Brown met three times with a Vietnamese-American busi­nessman who has been accused of conspiring to pay Brown $700,000 to pursue a trade pol­icy favorable to Vietnam, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
The Miami Herald said it learned that one of the meet­ings took place in February at Brown's office in Washington, and quoted sources as saying a government limousine was sent to bring the businessman, Nguyen Van Hao of Coral 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Expanding the peacekeeping mission in Somalia was a mis­take, and it's time for Congress to narrow the U.S. role there so it has a definite ending point, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said Sunday. 
Springs, and two friends of Brown's to the department. 
Brown has denied the con­spiracy allegation. He has never publicly stated whether he has met Hao, but he has denied "any kind of business re­lationship, any kind of relation­ship of any kind on this mat­ter," the Herald said. 
A former business associate of Hao's, Ly Thanh Binh, told the Herald that Hao told him he met Brown in November and December to talk about corner­ing business deals in Vietnam once the 18-year-old U.S. trade embargo is lifted. 
Hao appeared before a fed-

want to sponsor a campus-wide vol­unteer event," said presidential candidate, Ganna Breland. 
Each floor would sponsor some children, collect change from the floor and buy a Christmas gift for those chil­dren, according to Breland. 
"Melissa and I have different backgrounds, different ideas and more variety," said presi­dential candidate, Lori Langenderfer. 
According to Langenderfer, they want to get their class united so they can get to know each other better this year. 
"We've decided we want to emphasize service projects such as projects with kids, elderly people, hospitals and schools," said vice-presidential candidate, Maria McCauley. 
One example of a service pro­ject would be peer tutoring. "College kids would tutor ele­mentary kids one hour a week," said McCauley. 
Eight women are running for the 13 spots open on the fresh­man board, according to Broghammer. "One option will be for the freshman class to have a small board," she added. 
The eight women running are Laura Bossardt, Kelly Cook, Kristen DiNovo, Cate Freiesleben, Courtney Laden, Jennifer Ligda, Laura Loh and Kathleen Zimmer. 
Freshman class elections will 
be held on Tuesday during 

lunch and dinner at the dining 
hall. 
"This mission cannot con­tinue to be enlarged. And I would make that mission very narrow based on what I know now," Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
Demands for an end to the 
U.S. military presence in Somalia were given new impe­tus Saturday when Somali mili­tiamen shot down a U.S. heli­eral grand jury in Miami last month that is investigating the Commerce Department. 
Binh said Brown was to re­ceive $700,000 and business concessions in exchange for his efforts. 
Hao has denied Binh's alle­gations, and has on several oc­casions denied to Herald re­porters ever meeting Brown, the newspaper reported. 
Reid Weingarten, a Washington lawyer hired by Brown, told the Herald the al­legations were "preposterous." 
"No sane reporter or investi­gator believes there was any conspiracy between Mr. Brown 


The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

Stonehenge sale 

WVFI holds a blowout sale of COs at Stonehenge. Students were able to take advantage of prices rang­ing from 25 cents to $3 as the station sold duplicate and unused COs on Friday. 


The Citadel threatened by female student 
By BRUCE SMITH 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
Shannon Faulkner wants to attend The Citadel for the saine reasons many other students do: good education, regimented living and 151 years of military tradition. 
The only problem is the all­male college won't take her. 
Faulkner, 18, said keeping her out just because of her gen­der is unconstitutional because the school gets state funds. But some on campus said they have a right under federal law to sin­gle-gender education. 
"It's just human nature. A woman is a distraction," said Chris Parker, a junior from Myrtle Beach as he sat in the 
copter with a rocket-launched grenade. Three U.S. servicemen died. Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D­W.Va., called for a rapid with­drawal before more Americans are killed. 
Nunn said he did not support putting time limits on any mili­tary deployment, but, "I think we have to ask the administra­tion what is the mission, and I believe that at the very least the and any Vietnamese," Weingarten said. "It's astonish­ing that this allegation still has legs. I don't think what you've just told me warrants a re­sponse." 
When the Herald first con­tacted Brown spokesman Jim Desler in March for comment on Binh's allegations, Desler denied that Brown had ever met Hao, knew Hao or dis­cussed business about Vietnam. 
But sources told the Herald that Brown and Hao met in November in Palm Beach County. a second time in a rent­ed townhouse in Washington a week before Christmas, and a college's mess hall. 
Junior Rob Cauthen of Houston was more blunt, "I'd probably consider quitting if a woman comes here." He is the third member of his family to attend the military college. 
A federal judge last month ruled Faulkner could enroll in classes this year, but not join the Corps of Cadets. The Citadel appealed and the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Va., stayed the judge's order until it can hear more arguments Monday. 
Faulkner originally was ad­mitted by deleting references to her gender on her high school transcripts. She was rejected before arriving at the campus when Citadel officials discov­ered she is a woman. 
Senate and the House ought to narrow that mission so that we have a definitive ending point." 
"I don't think capturing one person is going to end this," he said, referring to the search for warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid, who is blamed for most of the attacks on U.N. peace­keepers. 
"There are too many people out there in the streets cele­
"I chose it because of the prestige, the alumni network­ing, the education department and the military structure," Faulkner said. 
For now, she attends the University of South Carolina at Spartanburg. 
The Citadel is one of two all­male, state-supported military colleges in the nation. The other, Virginia Military Institute, also is the target of a court challenge. 
The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled VMI must admit women, provide parallel pro­grams for them or go private. VMI also will be back in court today to present a plan, devised Saturday, to create a program for women at a private college to comply with the order. 
third time at Brown's Commerce Department office, the Herald reported. 
Weingarten said no evidence exists of wrongdoing by Brown. "He was a lawyer and a lobby­ist," Weingarten said. "Lawyers and lobbyists meet with a lot of people. They schmooze. 
"Hypothetically, if a friend of his had a business proposition and he hocked Ron Brown into listening to it, and at some point Ron Brown says, 'Hey, guys, I'm going into govern­ment, I can't get involved in this,' then what do you have?" 
brating the death of Americans, which is absolutely disgusting and tragic and deplorable. But it also may tell us something about the popular sentiment." 
Jubilant crowds surrounded the downed helicopter and re­porters who went to the scene several hours later said some Somalis displayed what they said were pieces of flesh from the dead crew. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 27, 1993 
I 
I l 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Seinalysis: 


Jerry on 

pop, smoking 

I've got a little treat for all you Seinfeld fans out there. 
I know that many of you have hectic sched­ules that rarely allow you some quality free time to relax and crawl into a good book. 
Well, as a little favor to ________ 

all my fellow fans, after finishing Jerry Seinfeld's new book, "SeinLanguage," I thought it would be nice to take out two of my favorite passages from the book and share them with you, along with some 


added comments of my  Jonathan Jensen  
own.  Associate Sports Editor  
"To  me  the  worst  
thing about television is  

that everybody you see is doing something bet­ter than what you're doing. You never see anybody on TV just sliding off the sofa with potato chip crumbs all over your shirt. 
"Some people are having a little too much fun on television. The soda commercial peo­ple-where do they get this enthusiasm? Have you seen them? 'We have soda, we have soda, we have soda!' Jumping, laughing, flying through the air. It's a can of soda. 
"Have you ever been sitting there watching TV and you're drinking the exact same prod­uct that they're advertising right there on TV? And they're spiking volleyballs, jet skiing, girls in bikinis. And you're sitting there, 'Maybe I'm putting too much ice in mine. I'm not getting that effect.' 
Now I agree with Seinfeld's assessment of how television commercials are light years from reality. But look at the second para­graph. Seinfeld, who resides in New York, describes the product on TV as "soda." 
Being from Chicago, I have no idea what he's talking about. What's soda? Does he mean an ice cream soda, the kind you get from ice cream parlor? Or does he mean seltzer water, which is very popular in his neck of the woods? Or does he mean pop, like Pepsi and Mountain Dew? 
I don't understand why people from the East Coast perpetuate the myth that anyone still calls Coke "soda?" Everyone in their right mind knows it's called pop. Let's move on. 
"Smoking is certainly one of the oddest and stupidest human idiosyncrasies... maybe the appeal is the fire. There's something very scary and exciting about fire. People always run to see a fire. They're very proud they have a fireplace. This is what smoking is all about. The power of 'I've got some fire right here in my hand. Smoke and fire is literally coming right out of my mouth.' And it's very intimidat­ing to the nonsmoker because it's like talking to someone who's going, 'My head could open up, lava could explode out, pour right down my face, doesn't bother me a bit."' 
I often think about why someone would ac­tually like to smoke, and I think Seinfeld might have an answer here. I know it's not the tar, the filter for the tar, the yearning to be addict­ed to a chemical substance, or the smell, so maybe it is the fire. 
Who knows? I like fire. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAV'S STAFF 
News Production Sarah Doran Whitney Sheets Michad 0 ' Hara Kathie Young Sports Accent 
Jonathan Jensen Man Carbone Viewpoint Graphics Mark Krejci Brendan Regan 
Michael O'Hara ffiustrations Lab Tech Pete Goyer 
T.J. Harris Chris W eirup 

The Oboavcr (USPS 599 2-40110) is publiih<d Monday through Friday cxcq>t durins exam and Yaa~lion pqiods..l)lc ObterVCr is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu arc raervcd. 
NATION ~T AGLANCE Scam took $1 million from elderly 
SLIDELL, La. 

The con artists would ring cow bells when they reeled in another victim. And their cohorts. busy at phones in the small office, would stop and cheer. 
Police said they have busted a major phone and mail swindle by an office of people who preyed on elderly peo­ple across the United States and Canada. 
Police Chief Ben Morris estimated that the operation, which went by several names, bilked victims of more than $1 million before it was smashed Thursday with 13 arrests. "We got major, major slime here," he said. 
He said the scam promised prizes of as much as $75,000, but victims were told that first they would have to advance money to pay taxes on the prize. The amount victims sent in ranged from a few hundred to several thousand dollars. 
Morris said he expects those involved also may face federal charges of mail and telephone fraud. The FBI and the U.S. attorney's office also are investigating. 
Police seized three thick notebooks filled with the names and addresses of duped people, along with the amount of money they sent in. Ages also were noted; the oldest victim police have found in the lists was 94. 
Dinkins facing New York police scandal 
NEW YORK 

New York Mayor David Dinkins established a commission Monday to look into yet another scandal to hit the police department. 
The Mollen Commission -named for its head, Milton Mollen, a former 
• deputy mayor and judge on the state Appeals Court -begins two weeks of public hearings. They are expected to provide the first detailed glimpse of the latest generation of corrupt officers, mainly men in scat­tered precincts who are accused of taking payoffs from drug dealers and, at times, of dealing drugs themselves. 
Among the first witnesses is Michael Dowd, a former Brooklyn officer whose admission he led a ring of drug­dealing police prompted Mayor David Dinkins to form the commission last year. 
What the Mollen Commission is finding, and what the Knapp Commission found before it in the early 1970s, is that corruption remains ingrained in police culture. 
Among those officers who investigate what used to be called vice -gambling, prostitution and liquor violations -a few have always been willing to accept bribes, others eager to share the proceeds. Today, it's the riches offered by the narcotics trade that tempt officers. 
Cruise's attorney suing tabloid 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
A lawyer who helped Tom Cruise adopt a baby has sued a supermarket tabloid for libel, alleging his business was hurt by derogatory references in a story. 
Bennett Cohn said potential clients have told him they were hesitant to hire him after the Aug. 10 Star quoted Anthony Martin, a perennial political candidate in Florida, as calling him a "baby seller." 
"And you never know who doesn't call you as a result of these types of allegations," Cohn said. 
He said the story was irresponsible because no one at the newspaper contacted him or checked his background. Star attorney Slade Metcalf said Friday he wasn't 
aware of the lawsuit and couldn't comment. 
Cohn said he has arranged more than 1,000 adoptions in 18 years and is chairman of the Florida Bay's Adoption Law Commission, which recommends legislative changes. 
Cruise, who starred in "The Firm," and actress-wife Nicole Kidman adopted a girl in July. 
Ten years of 

C1tJFlPJfG]j\JG J-r 

The four major credit cards have all seen the volume of charges in the 
U.S. rise, but Visa and Discover cards are gaining In market share while American Express and MasterCard are losing share. 
Credit cards worldwide (1963-1992) -Visa e-,,,. American Express 
-Mastercard c-::> Discover 
350 

In mUllens Visa:304.3 


Dlscover:39.2 

0 .~,ww;.:~·; .,"·~~-~'; --~ :1'
50 . -<M<mM'Wj:;::;==~~;~~ • 
• ~ ~ • v • ~ • ~ • 
NOte: Discover card rogures are U.S. only, Wo11d figure includes U.S. ligutes, MasterCard's ~~e!l'::d~,j"m~'f,~~~[J;ng"f~~branded cardll overseas, thus the rllducrlon In 
U.S. Charge volume (In billions, 1983·1992) 
AMERICAN 

VISA MASTERCARD DISCOVER
EXPRESS 

Market 
Market 
Market Volume Market
Volume
Volume 
Volume

share 
share 
share share 

1983 ~7.2 43.3% 

26,5% 

$33.0 30.2% 


42.1 3Q,L
'84 61.3 43~9 
~~.Q_ 
'85 75.2 44.8 
50.5 30.1 
25.0 
'86 84.6 45,0 

56.8 3Q..?­
~3.9 0.9% 
23.0 2.4
'87 97.7 44.0 
68-0 30.6 
-
74-4 28.9
·sa 115.3 44,9 
2f.L 

'89 134.0 44.6 
83.427:7 
23.8 3.9 
'90 158.1 45.8 
22.5


93.3 27]i 
==---+---:=~-~·.L 
99.0 26.9_ 
20.8
'91 ..11QL.__46~ 
+-~~~~~~---~
'92 190.4 46.1 
112.7 27.3 
19.9 6.7 

Note: Pre-1988 Discover volume Is CCN estimate. Pre-1989American Express volume from Sanford C. Bemsteln & Co. Inc. Transactions 818 CCN estimates In billions. assuming AmEx's avorage tlclolt Is 20% hlgller than the bank card average of $41 tn 1982 and $78111 1992. 
Source: Card companies, Credit Card News AP 
Rumors persist after professors's acquittal 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. 
Students of an Indiana State University professor ac­quitted in a highly publicized murder trial two years ago say classmates still discuss the case, but quietly. 
Their library science professor, Robert David Little, was found innocent in April 1991 of helping an accused serial killer commit murder. 
Larry Eyler told police that Little had helped him kill and mutilate 23-year-old Terre Haute resident Stephen Agan in 1982. 
During the trial. Eyler testified that he and Little had played out a bizarre homosexual scene in an abandoned farm house that ended in Agan's death. 
But the Vermillion Circuit Court jury didn't buy Eyler's 
story and Little was aequitted. 
Eyler is on Death Row in Illinois for a 1986 murder. 
Little, 56, has returned to the classroom but memories 
linger. 

Laura Ann Loitz, a senior marketing major from Lowell, said some of her classmates talked about the trial behind Little's back. "I was aware of the trial, but it didn't bother me. He was a good teacher." 
George Schifano, a recent graduate from Newburgh, said he was apprehensive at the start of a course he took from Little, but "he never bothered me.'' 
Some blame the case for cutbacks in the library science department that left Little as the department's only pro­fessor. But university officials maintain that pressures unrelated to Little's difficulties prompted the cutbacks. 


Atlanta Bdlinofw ... Bollon Chtc:ago ·.,: .. Columbus 

Dallas 83 68 New York Oenwr 64 43 Paris 
H L 
89 89 

London 57 46 Philadelphia
82 ..57 

'Loa~ . 1111 '.82 St. LoUis
58
.~ 

'MWml ·e1 n Sllll F111nclsoo 
. '68 •53 . ''85 59 

MlnneapOiia 58· 47 Saalllll NewOrteana 93 73 Wuhlnglon, D.C. 
78 54 59 54 18 82 89 57 84 54 76 49 84 59 
Monday, September 27, 1993 


JERUSALEM 
Spring 1994 

INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, September 28, 1993 0:30p.m. 202 DeBartolo 
"Who saw not Jerusalem in its has never seen a beautiful T 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 15, 1993 
The Observer • NEWS page3 

ND advisory councils announced 
Special to The Observer 
New members of the University of Notre Dame's nine advisory councils have been announced by the University's president, Fr. Edward Malloy 
•College 
of Arts and Letters: David Boehnen, senior vice president, Super Valu Stores, Inc., Minneapolis; Christopher Cheng, Wing Tai Garment International Ltd., Hong Kong; Mary Lee Freeman, graduate student, Boston College, Newton Center, Mass.; J. Collis Jones, commercial sales repre­sentative, James Cassidy Co., Inc., Bettsville, Md.; Robert Nanovic, Cumberland Center, Maine; and Mark Pasquerilla, president, Crown American Realty Trust, Johnstown, Pa. 

•College 
of Science: Fernando Galatas, president and chief executive officer, 

•College 
of Engineering: Celeste Volz Ford, vice presi­


Hispanagar,  S.A.,  Madrid,  
Spain;  and  Dr.  Robert  
Rodriguez,  UCLA  Medical  
Center, Los Angeles.  


dent, Scitor Corp., Sunnyvale, Calif.; William Kleine, Midland, Texas; Joseph O'Neill Ill, man­aging partner, O'Neill Properties, Ltd., Midland, Texas; Charles Toeniskoetter, president, Toeniskoetter & Breeding, Inc., San Jose, Calif.; and James Toole, president, Southwest Energy, Inc., Tucson, Ariz. 
•College 
of Business Administration: Roberto Garza-Delgado, president, Alfa Corp., Garza Garcia, Mexico; Joseph Haggar Ill, president, Haggar Apparel Co., Dallas; Douglas Tong Hsu, Far Eastern Textile Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China; and Thomas Quinn, president and chief op­erating officer, Jordan Industries, Inc., Deerfield, Ill. 

•Law 
School: Mary Ann Grabavoy, producer, American Broadcasting Co., New York City; Alan Page, Minnesota supreme court justice, St. Paul, Minn.; Shayla Rumely, pub­lisher, Fulton County Daily Report, Atlanta; Claire Corson Skinner, president, Coachman 


RV Co., Middleburg, Ind.; and John Vuono, partner, Vuono, Lavelle & Gray, Pittsburgh. 
•Snite 
Museum of Art: Michael Baechler, Winona, Minn.; Vincent Fazio, graduate student, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh; Richard Hunt, sculptor, Chicago; and Dr. R. Stephen Lehman, dentist, Carmel, Ind. 

•Institute 
for Church Life: Martin Loesch, attorney, Karr, Tuttle & Campbell, Seattle; James. Loftus, director of pro­fessional development, St. Ambrose University, Davenport, Iowa, and Irene Loftus, attor­ney, Lane & Waterman; Andrew McKenna Jr., vice president, Schwarz Paper Co., Morton Grove, 111., and Mary McKenna; and Louis Nanni, executive director, Center for the Homeless, South Bend, Ind. 

•Graduate 
Studies and Research: James Jack, execu­tive vice president and chief fi­nancial officer, Associates Corporation of North America, Dallas; and Walter Jones, se­nior vice president, Prince Corp., Holland, Mich. 


Cleanup begins after most recent flood 
Associated Press 
Oklahoma authorities de­clared a state of emergency Sunday and asked for National Guard help as the rising Spring and Neosho rivers forced nearly 100 people from nursing homes and a trailer park. 
But the heavy downpours that soaked parts of Oklahoma, Kansas and Missouri last week were mostly over. 

In Lamar, Mo., volunteers were at work with mops and buckets in Lonnie Frieden's fur­niture store Sunday, cleaning up after a deluge that left almost as quickly as it came. 
"Well, we had about 18 inch­es of water in the store," Frieden said of conditions Saturday at his business on the outskirts of Lamar, a town of 4,200 in southwestern Missouri. 
"But, we got most everything out before it hit," he said. "We had hundreds of people who came in and helped us unload most everything out before it hit." 
Access to three northeastern Oklahoma communities ­Miami, Wyandotte, and Quapaw -was virtually cut off because at least a foot of water covered highways into the towns, with even more water on rural roads. 

WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 27, 1993 
FALL FEST '93 BRINGS ND SPIRIT TO SOUTH BEND 
In an effort to show the  held on Saturday, Novem­ the people ofSouth Bend.  dents of the  Northeast  
university'ssupportfor the  ber 6.  The clean-up will  Sign-ups for Fall Festi­ Neighborhood.  
South Bend community,  take place from 8:30 a.m.  val '93 will take place on  
Student Government is sponsoring a one day ser­ to 1 :30 p.m. and will be followed by a block party  Tuesday through Thurs­day, October 5, 6, and 7 in  JOIN US...  
vice project called Fall F es­ for volunteers and North­ both dining halls during  Students areneeded to  
tival '93.  The project in­ east Neighborhood resi­ lunch and dinner.  Off­ help Student Government  
volves  beautifying the  dents. Notre Dame alumni  campus students can sign  withminorityconcernsand  
Northeast Neighborhood  as well as current students  up at the LaFortune infor­ health  concerns  projects.  
ofSouth Bend by planting  will take part in the event,  mation desk.  All students  Contact Kendra Pickens,  
flowers  and cleaning up  providing  an opportunity  are encouraged to partici­ Director ofStudent Life at  
the interiors and exteriors  for  past  and  eresent  pateinthis worthwhile ser­ 631-4553.  
of local residences.  Domers to come together  vice project to help show  
Fall Festival '93 will be  and show their concernfor  ND's support for the resi- 
CAMPUS CONVERSATIONS  
Toencourage com­ and will be held in various  
munication between ND  residence halls.  A dean  
students and faculty, Stu­ from each college willspeak  
dent Government is spon­ about ethics in his or her  
soring a year-longprogram  field.  
called Campus Conversa­ The first session will  
tions.  The program's co­ take place on Wednesday,  
ordinators hope to provide  October 6 from 6:00 to  
an intimate means ofbring­ 7:00 p.m. in Alumni Hall.  
ing students and profes­ Dr. Jerry Marley from  
sors together.  the College of Engineer­ 
The Conversations  ing will speak about the  
will take place on the first  ethics ofhis field.  
W  ofeach month  

·-----~----~-------~---~ -·--~--­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 27, 1993 

Thousands cheer Yeltsin at Red Square concert 
By JULIA RUBIN Associated Pres:; 
MOSCOW 
Thousands of Russians cheered Boris Yeltsin at a con­cert on Red Square Sunday and at least 10,000 people marched in the biggest demon­stration of support for the president since he disbanded parliament five days ago. 
Across town. the hard-liners who have sought to impeach Yeltsin and name their own government dug in their heels. 
"If need be, we will stay here for a year," said parlia­ment speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov, leader of the approximately 100 lawmakers who remain holed up in the building, known as the White House. 
Late Sunday, in a potentially significant development, a top aide was quoted as saying that he believed Yeltsin would ~'l.gree to simultaneous elec­tions. But Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Shakhrai stressed he was expressing his personal opinion, an official said. 
Shakhrai's comments came at a meeting of regional lead· ers on the crisis, in which they urged both sides to cancel the decrees they have issued dur· ing the crisis and hold simulta­neous elections immediately for parliament and president. 
Yeltsin has set new parlia­mentary elections for December and said presiden· tial elections could be held in June. Khasbulatov's parlia­ment, elected in Soviet times, wants simultaneous elections in March. 

Yeltsin dissolved parliament last Tuesday after struggling for 18 months with hard-line lawmakers opposed to his re· forms. Lawmakers responded by impeaching Yeltsin and naming Vice President Alexander Rutskoi as acting president. 
Foreign. Minister Andrei Kozyrev. speaking Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press.'' said that if there is a "growing mood" in the country, Yl:lltsin might compromise on his plan. 
But Kozyrev said he believes simultaneous elections are "very, very dangeroll.s,•· and could destabilize the country. "Someone has to he in office." he said. 
Yeltsin, accompanied by Defense Minister Pavel Grachev and Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov, waded into surging crowds on Red Square for a free concert by the Washington-based National Symphony Orchestra and its conductor. former dissident Mstislav Rostropovich. 
The president waved and smiled, then took his place at the front of the crowd. He cracked a smile again when earblasting cannons went off during Tchaikovsky's "1812 Overture." 
An announcer urged "faith in the president and in Russia's future;'' and the crowd responded "Hurrah! Hurrah!" 

•
• 
•• l-~ 

r\ 
•
• 
• tfOOMEQ
•
• 111
•
• 

• • ~QUN '93
• 

UNIVEQ8ITY Of NOTRE DAME 3 & 6 MILE RUNS AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, OCTOBER 2, 10:00 AM AT STEPAN CENTER ROAD IJ'o®IMJU[];l~ IT© £11.11.IFIIIM~®IMJ~~~ [];l~@~®IJ'~[];l ~IM £1QlW£1MtG~ £11' ~~©;®!?@~~ ®~.©® ~IM £1QlW£00tG~ &!! ®®.®® !Ql£11 ©~ ~£©;~ ®ITQ1J!Ql rEIMIT £ IM!Ql ®IT£~~ IQl ~W~®~©IM® 
FOR MORE /NFORMA TION CALL 631-6100 

London  $269  
St. Petersburg  $399  
Belize City  $229  
Rio de Janeiro  $505  
Bangkok  $619  

Aufares are each Wi!f based on aroundtrip purchose and subject to chanse. Restrictions apply. Taxes not Included. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom St, 2nd Floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 


r-------------------,






i1oo/~oubff i 
I Your next service visit at Jordan's I 
IPrior Offers Excluded. This offer good alone only on next visit lo Jordan's only. ()ffer expires I 10/3 L Restrictions may apply to certain vehicles; call for details tndav ..J
L 

ORD 


Ford•Toyota• Volvo•Mitsuhishi At Jefferson and Cedar Streets, Mishawaka 
Free Shuttle Sctvice! 

Free Shuttle Setvice! 
• 
•
•
• 

Forces could be sent within days 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

If President Clinton decides to order U.S. soldiers into Bosnia on a NATO peacekeeping mis­sion, thousands of troops will enter Sarajevo in an airborne show of force that could be mounted within days of his re­quest, military planners say. 
But before U.S. troops go in, the Pentagon wants to see a peace accord that holds -with the combatants separated from one another, heavy artillery withdrawn and the free flow of humanitarian supplies assured, the planners said. 
The initial deployment eould grow to about 25,000 troops over a several-week period ­bristling with enough heavy tanks, artillery and armed troop transports to defend themselves and ensure their mission is carried out. 

Military planners spoke of their work on condition of anonymity, but the men ex­pected to be in charge have been blunt about what they want to send, should they get the mission. 
"If we have to go into Bosnia, I don't want to say 'Mother, may I?' to anyone," Adm. Jeremy Boorda, NATO's south­ern Europe commander told a conference organized by the 
U.S. mission to NATO Friday. 

Fatah calls for end to deadly attacks 
By ARIEH O'SULLIVAN 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM 

A Palestinian blew himself up with a car bomb in the occu­pied Gaza Strip on Sunday in an apparent suicide attack gone awry, the Israeli army said. No one else was hurt. 
The man's charred body was found in the burnt out car, the army said. The remnants of two pipe bombs and canisters of bottled gas were also found in the car, which was discovered by a routine army patrol in Gaza City. 
Arab reports said the dead man belonged to the Muslim fundamentalist i-Iamas organi­zation, which has vowed to sab­otage the recent peace agree­ment between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel. 

A leaflet published by Hamas and the smaller Islamic Jihad group after the explosion said there would be more suicide at­tacks "against the Zionist en­emy." 
THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL PRESENTS, AS PART OF THE 


SEPTEMBER 27-OCTOBER 1 12:00PM-1:00 PM 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 
TROOPND 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
THE PHILIPPINE CLUB 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 
TAEKWANDO 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 
THE HAWAIIAN CLUB 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1 
EGYPTIAN BELLYDANCING 

SfJI.'"-"iUrtd 6_11: 
:Vufticufturaf·L:o.:ccutttlt Councif 

See you at Fieldhouse Mall for cultural 
entertainment! 
For more 
infonnation, please 
calll-7308 

-----~--~-----------~~----~------~-----~-~ 
Monday, September 27, 1993 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT page 5 
Spcm.wrt46y: Muftic.u£turaf'4_uu tivt Council ULTICULTU L FALL FESTIVAL WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE SEPTEMBER 26 OCTOBER 2 A MARATHON OF ACTIVITIES ALL IN ONE WEEK! CAMPUS CULTURE"WHERE THE WESTBANDS ON THE QUADWAS ONE"Sunday, Sept. 26 Monday--Friday, Sept. 27--Oct. 1 A Night of Western Dancing 12--2 p.m. 12--1 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 28Fieldhouse Mall Fieldhouse Mall 8--11 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom "MULTICULTURAL FIRESIDE CHATS REFLECTIONS" Monday--Friday, Sept. 27--0ct. 1"TALES OF THREE 12:15--1 p.m.A Celebration of Diversity COUNTRIES" Notre Dame Room Sunday, Sept. 26 A Night of Storytelling 202 Lafortune Student Center2--3 p.m. from Mexico, India and Italy FREE LUNCH INCLUDEDLaFortune Ballroom Thursday, Sept. 30 7--9 p.m. "TASTE OFENTERTAINMENT Snite Museum NATIONS"ON THE QUAD Reception Saturday, Oct. 2Monday--Friday, Sept. 27--0ct. 1 8--Midnight5--6 p.m. Stepan CenterFieldhouse Mall $1 admission  


page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 27, 1993 

Ministers urge ending of Crew leaves don1e after two years 
By ARTHUR ROTSTEIN opened more than two dozen cretely of plans. But most spoke long stalled trade talks Associated Press times, first for crew member fondly of the world they were Jane Poynter to get surgery leaving.
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER are reduced. 
ORACLE, Ariz. after injuring her finger and "I certainly had a big lump in 
Associatod Press Noting that leaders of the 
Biosphere 2's crew emerged later for import of thousands of my throat as I walked aroundworld's seven largest industrial Sunday from a two-year exper­small items, including seeds, Biosphere 2 this morning," said WASHINGTON countries have repeatedly iment in self-sufficiency, filling sleeping pills, mousetraps and crew member Sally Silverstone
World finance officials urged completion of the 
their lungs with fresh air and makeup. Outside air was of Walthamstow, England. "I 
pledged Sunday to intensify Uruguay Round, Sutherland 
waving to some 2,500 reporters pumped in once and pure oxy­milked the goats for the lasttheir efforts to complete long­said, "We still find govern­and cheering well-wishers. gen was added twice to balance time, fed the chickens for the stalled trade talks by year-end ments failing to do what they "They said it couldn't be the atmosphere. last time, I saw the sunrise on as negotiators from the United know they must do." 
done," said crew member Mark After testing and upgrading the space frame in my apart­States and Europe sought to re­President Clinton and leaders Nelson. "But here we are -equipment, operators of the ment for the last time." 
solve differences in a bitter of Japan, Germany, Britain, 
healthy, happy." $150 million private, for-profit Crew members lost an aver­fight over farm subsidies. France, Italy and Canada pro­The event, dubbed "re-entry" enterprise plan to re-seal the age of 13.65 percent of their A parade of finance ministers claimed a breakthrough in the by Biosphere operators, blend­dome with a second crew early body weight on a diet heavy on 
speaking at the annual meet­negotiations in Tokyo with 
ed NASA-style techno-speak next year for a one-year stay. such items as sweet potatoes,
ings of the International agreement on major cuts in 
with the trappings of a The four-mao, four-woman rice, peanuts, bananas and Monetary Fund said that a fail­manufacturing tariffs. 
Hollywood media event. crew that left Biosphere on wheat. They occasionally had ure to conclude the Uruguay While this tariff-cutting pack­Festivities began with an Sunday ranged in age from 29 an egg, chicken or goat meat Round of talks would be devas­age was expected to provide early-morning concert and a to 69. All are single and agreed and coffee. 
tating to the world economy. renewed momentum, the talks speech by chimpanzee re­to just one restriction on their The experiment, once billed The IMF's policy-setting in­in Geneva have faltered again searcher Jane GoodalL social life -no pregnancies. as a prototype space colony,terim committee issued a joint over a French demand con­Operators say the crew set a They have refused to discuss has been accused of deception statement late Sunday declar­cerning farm subsidies. 
record for living inside an possible romances or argu­and amateur science anding that completion of the The French are insisting on 
essentially closed structure -ments. drawn unflattering compar­Uruguay Round by the end of changes to a farm subsidy designed as a mini-earth with In their remarks, they didn't isons to Disneyland, in part be­the year was crucial to "restor­agreement reached last rain forest, ocean, savannah reveal many personal details of cause it attracted more than ing confidence in global eco­November between the United and farm. life under the glass-domed 400,000 paying visitors in two nomic prospects." States and the 12-member But the dome has been 3.15-acre world, or speak con-years.
The IMF panel said that it ex­European Community saying pected "leadership and vision that the subsidy cuts in that from all in order to resolve the package are unacceptable to its remaining issues and conclude one million farmers. the round by the end of the But U.S. Trade year. Failure to do so could re­Representative Mickey Kantor inforce protectionist pressures, has flatly rejected the French erode business confidence and demand that the pact be rene­weaken growth in all coun­gotiated. Kantor and Sir Leon tries." Brittan, chief trade negotiator 
Peter Sutherland, head of the for the European Community, 
General Agreement on Tariffs were scheduled to meet Sunday and Trade, told the IMF gather­and Monday to discuss whether ing that a successful conclusion there was any way to overcome of the trade talks would provide the impasse. a needed shot of confidence for French Finance Minister a sluggish world economy. Edmond Alphandery rejected 
GATT, the Geneva-based suggestions that France was trade organization, is conduct­playing the spoiler in demand­ing the talks that aim to pro­ing renegotiation of the Blair mote freer trade among 116 House agreement. But British nations by lowering tariffs, cut­Chancellor of the Exchequer ting back farm subsidies, ex­Kenneth Clarke said, in an panding GATT rules to cover obvious reference to France, service industries and beefing that despite all the claims of up protection of copyrights and support, "There is one country 
patents. whose contributions are not Sutherland blamed leaders of touching heavily on the the world's major industrial-Uruguay Round." 
ized countries for failing to ...---------------------------------------------------~ 
make the tough political choic­
es on such issues as removing trade barriers that protect powerful domestic interests, including farmers and textile producers. 
The financial stakes in a suc­cessful conclusion to the trade talks were underscored Sunday by a new report from the World Bank that contended the world economy would gain an addi­tional $213 billion annually from removal of trade barriers envisioned in the GATT agree­ment. 
World Bank economists esti­mated the economic gains would climb to this level by the year 2002. They broke the in­creases down as $135 billion for industrialized countries and $85 billion in gains to develop­ing nations. 
This would be partially offset, the World Bank said, by $7 bil­lion in annual economic losses, mainly to very poor nations that depend heavily on food imports or grow crops that would drop in price as tariffs 
CORRECTION 
Portions of a music review in Thursday's Accent section were added without the knowledge of the author. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
A Night of Hispanic Culture! Peter Blach and Carmen Lucca at LaFortune Ballroom starting at 7 p.m. on Sept. 29 



FREE PEOPLE! 
Banned Book Week September 25th -October 4th Talk Create Listen Rap Read Publish Write Paint Dance Act Perform 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSOTRE "on the campus" 
Open Monday -Friday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Daily Drawing for Banned Books On The 2nd Floor Book Dept. 
Nan1e 
Address Phone 


; i. r t 






At self-service pumps, the 
latest nationwide survey shows 
regular unleaded gasoline sell­

The Computer Applications Honor Society ing for an average 106.07 cents per gallon, midgrade at 117.49
Presents 
cents, premium at 125.46 cents and regular leaded at 109.78 cents.

Ford Motor Company The average at full-service pumps was 144.79 cents for regular unleaded, 153.28 cents for mid-grade, 160.44 cents for
Monday September 27, 1993 
premium and 138.93 cents for
7-8 pm 

leaded regular. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
AUDITIONS for ND Opera Workshop THE MARRIAGE OF FIGARO 
by W.A Mozart

All Are Welcome!!!! 
Performances on Apr. 22 & 23 
Casting all Rolls 

Refreshments will be served. 
Auditions-Wed. Oct 13, 7:30p.m. Crowley Hall Room 115 Accompanist provided 
Cl•nler for Social Cnm:erns prest•nls ... 
Peaee is a Question o Justice 
~ 


~~rf)f/~ 

Winner of the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize 
Hesburgh library Auditorium 
Tuesday, September 

28, 1993 8:00 PM 

Ms._ Williams was awardee! the Nobel Peace Prize (with Mairrad Corr~gan) for her work to promote pratT in Nortlwrn Ireland. Ikr ongomg wo~·k involves numerous peace initiatives intcrnationallv. As a Catlwllc woman whose faith has inspired hrr work for j)('ii<:P. she has much to share with our community. 
• 

Cmponsored hy: 
•Studeut 
Government •Kellogg Center liH lnternatio1nl S1 11 dic·, 

•<:;ampus 
Ministry •Government and International S1udin 


:Center fo~ Social Concern~ •:~nd othC'r c:unpu.s orf'ani1.atinns p Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies ~' 
Monday, September 27, 1993 

System to blame for killings 
By RICHARD COLE Associated Press 
MIAMI 

The suspects in Florida's re­cent rash of high-profile killings have something else in com­mon. Prison overcrowding, low bonds, dropped charges or a paralyzed juvenile justice sys­tem put them back on the streets. 
That's hardly surprising. In Dade County, the criminal jus­tice system is so overburdened that stolen car reports are taken only over the telephone and only when the clerk has time. 
"A lot of people feel this is a shell game," said Dade State Attorney Cathy Fernandez Rundle, who succeeded Janet Reno when she left to become 
U.S. attorney general. "And I'm not sure I see the light at the end of the tunnel." 
The group Stop Turning Out 
Prisoners, or STOP, held rallies 
at courthouses around Florida 
last week to protest what mem­
bers call "a revolving door sys­
tem of injustice." 
Florida Department of 
Corrections figures are chilling. 
A 1988-91 survey found that about 26,000 prisoners were released early because of over­crowding. The state prison sys­tem has a capacity of about 52,500 inmates. 
The average time served has dropped to 18 percent to 23 percent of a prison term. From 1988 to 1991, 346 homicides­roughly 10 percent of Florida's total -were committed by felons released early, out on bond or free for other reasons before serving complete sen­tences. 
"And those are only the peo­ple who were caught and ar­rested," Rundle said. 
Four well-publicized murders in September show there are many ways to slip through the cracks: 
• Patsy Jones, accused of killing German tourist Owe­Wilhelm Rakebrand on a Miami expressway the night of Sept. 8 had been released from a Broward County jail on Sept. 3. 
She spent two weeks in jail after police said she reached for her gun during a shoplifting arrest. But prosecutors dropped that charge and she was freed. 
The Broward gun charge has since been refiled, said prose­cutor Stephen DeLuca. 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

Multicultural reflections 
Father Tom McDermott monitors the discussion at "Multicultural Reflections: A Celebration of Diversity" in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event was held to explore multicultural spirituality in an open forum discussion atmosphere. 
page7 


Gas prices fall, will rise next week 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Motorists paid a half-cent per gallon less at the pump during the last two weeks, but costs will soon climb because of new federal taxes and clean-air rules, an industry analyst said Sunday. 
The Lundberg Survey of 10,000 gasoline stations na­tionwide on Sept. 24 showed the average price at self-serve and full-serve pumps, including all grades and taxes, was 
113.21 cents per gallon. 
That's a 0.54-cent drop from the Sept. 10 average. 
Trilby Lundberg, publisher of 
the Lundberg Survey, said 
prices should rise next week 
because of a double-whammy: 
a federal tax hike and the sec­
ond annual implementation of 
the oxygenated fuel program 
mandated in certain cities. 
Effective Friday, the federal 
tax on gasoline will increase 
4.3 cents per gallon. 

YOU ARE WELCOME TO JOIN US 
OLD COLLEGE NIGHTS 

A time for shared discussion, hospitality and prayer welcoming those seeking to explore an interest in the priesthood o·r brotherhood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Monday, September 27, 1993 7 P.M. until 8:30 P.M. 

"WHO ARE WE? WHY ARE WE HERE?" 
Notre Dame and Jroly Cross undergraduates speak about the Old College seminary program. 
The Old College is located on the Notre Dame campus facing St. Mary's Lake and adjacent to the Log Chapel and Architecture Building. It serves as the House of Studies for college undergraduates discerning a vocation to religious life and priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. W. Patrick Hannon, C.S.C. Vocation Directors 63 1·6385 


Special guest speaker 
f»eter Bloch 


on Puerto Rican Experience 
& 


Puerto Rican singer (.:·artnen Lucca 
Date: September 29 Place: The LaFortune Ballroom Time: 7:00 pm 
There will be a free reception in The Ballroom afterwards. 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
,' -.. 0 , . \ 
__,.._ . J, 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, September 27, 1993 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney 
Managing Editor Kevin Hardman 
News Editor ................ Meredirh McCullough Viewpoint Editor .............. Rolando de Aguiar Sporu Editor .................... George Dohrmann Accent Editor ......................... Kenya Johnson Photo Editor ................................. jake Peters Saint Mary'• Editor ............. Jennifer Habrych 
Business Manager 
Brian Kennedy 

Advenising Manager .......... : .......... Anne Heroman Ad Design Manager ...................... Sreph Goldman Production Manager ........................ Cheryl Moser Systems Manager .............................. Parrick Barth OTS Director ................................ Brendan Regan Controller ....................................... Mark Meenan 


News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Improve health as well as health care 
Managing EdirorNicwpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Sysrems/OTS 631-8839 
CUNTON's HEALTH 
PLAN 

The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The nc:ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries, lmers and Inside Columns prcsem rhc views of the authors, and not necessarily those 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 
Dear Editor: 
The President revealed last week some of the principles that have guided his health care proposal. He did not tell us all of the details of the pro­posal to reform health care in this country. In the hope that not all of these details are fixed, I would like to make some sug­gestions. 
In particular, I would like to suggest that reform efforts have been focused on how to deliver health care to Americans (i.e., efficiently, fairly, broadly, etc.) instead of on how to keep Americans from getting sick in the first place. Some consider­ation has been given to this problem -for instance, it is widely recognized that periodic checkups can catch potentially major problems before they become critical -but here are some more concrete thoughts in this direction. 
Let's begin with a principle: people who engage in high-risk behavior should pay more. People who have been in many car accidents pay more for their auto insurance, since they cost the insurance companies more money. I think a parallel principle should apply to people who drain health care re­sources as a result of behavior they could modify. 
Here's one way to apply the principle: tax smokers till it hurts. Did you know that a pack of cigarettes costs $6 in Canada? The tax revenue is going straight into their health care system. Tens of thousands of the lung cancer deaths each year are the result of smoking. It's a free country, and you can smoke if you want. But don't ask me to pay for your oxygen and critical care when emphy-
DOONESBURY 

sema gets you. 
If people continue to smoke, the revenue generated will sup­port them in the health care system. If they quit, the rev­enue won't be missed since the lung cancer rate will drop pre­cipitously. We need to provide this kind of incentive for people to be healthier. 
Another suggestion: fat tax. Make consumers pay duty on the percentage of calories from fat. The tax could be progres­sive: 10 percent or less of calo­ries from fat (lowfat foods), no tax; 10-20 percent calories from fat, 5 percent tax; 20-30 percent calories from fat, 10 percent tax; etc. Once again, people can do what they want. But if they insist on running the risk of heart disease and obe­sity by eating burgers 'n' fries every day, they should bear part of the increased cost of dealing with the consequences. 
It may be objected at this point that the taxes I am sug­gesting will hurt the poor more than the rich, and hence that such taxes are unjust and should be rejected. Consider, however, that in terms of health care dollars it costs no less to treat a poor cancer pa­tient (not necessarily "victim") than to treat a rich one. High risk behavior should be dis­couraged. If that means the poor have a stronger disincen­tive to smoke and eat fat, so be it. If they lead lower risk lives they'll be healthier on average and live better lives than rich people who smoke and eat fat. Nothing unfair in that. 
More suggestions? How about something a bit more radical? Free Nordic-Tracks. Put a ski machine in every home. If we can't afford free, then ban Nintendo and provide an amnesty period during which people can exchange their Nintendos for a Nordic­Track. Get those couch pota­toes up and exercising. 
Better yet, prohibit stand­alone televisions altogether. Sell only TV-Nordic-Track sets, which require the viewer to generate the power for the tele­vision with the work done by the Nordic-Track. People can't play Nintendo while they're doing Nordic-Track. Friends or family might complain about the channel you watch while you're doing Nordic-Track, but hey, if they want a different channel, let them power up their own TV. 
Here's another idea: breath­alyzer-operated car door locks. You've had only one beer tonight-you're well under the legal limit. You turn the key in the car door, blow into the breathalyzer, and it says "0.02 percent-$10". You slip a ten into the machine and the door opens. Above the legal limit the door won't open. Anything above 0.00 percent blood alco­hol and you pay a progressive surcharge for your high risk behavior. This device would help both the auto insurance and health care industries. 
The last two options might be a bit excessive; but I think the guiding principle is a good one. Part of the health care problem in America is that Americans don't pursue health as much as they expect care. We need to stop complaining about how much money doctors make. Let's go out and play some hoops or tennis instead. We'll all be better off. 
MICHAEL BYRON 
Department of Philosophy 

Reader: ND's teaching of evolution perpetuates racism 
Dear Editor: 
The Administration of Notre Dame is insuring that that racism will continue at ND as long as anthropological evolu­tion is taught. Evolution dupes both whites and blacks into be­lieving blacks are an evolution­ary antecedent to whites. It en­courages blacks to stay out of academia as they have not evolved to the cognitive level of whites and to pursue instead the athletic arena where blacks can exploit their lingering primitive physical abilities. 
Instead of having the courage to teach Biblical creation exclu­sively, ND has followed the Pied Piper of "higher education" and taught the racist theory of evo­lution. But now the Pied Piper is tooting increasingly more for creation. Science is increasingly determining that the biological data fits better into a creation­ist perspective than into an evolutionary one. Denton's Evolution: "A Theory in Crisis" Johnson's "Darwin on Trial" and Davis and Kenyon's "Of Pandas and People" are three secular works that illustrate how unreasonable the theory of evolution appears in light of modern science. 
Evolution should never be taught at an institution that upholds the Bible. Evolution effectively teaches agnosticism or worse, depicts the Creator as a tortuous monger who orches­trates a grotesque plot where disease, mutation, retardation, death and clawing atop the heap of the animal kingdom are God's very creative mecha­nisms. Evolution is no reveler of God's glory lPs 19:1; Ro.1:20) -creation is. 

I can understand the deep­seated hurt that African-Amer­icans feel as they fulfill their evolutionarily ordained role in society. The ND administration owes the African-American community an apology for so carelessly accepting and teach­ing evolution, a woefully lack­ing counterfeit of creation, full of racist sociological impli­cations. Foremost however, the administration owes God an apology for following a crest of academic vogue as an alterna­tive to simple belief in His holy word. God tells us in James 4:4 that whoever wishes to be friends with the world makes himself an enemy of God. ND can't have it both ways accord­ing to James -we can't be a friend with the world and a friend with God. 
Peter llerrs, president of Collegians Activated to Liberate Life, chided Fr. Malloy and the ND administration last spring for their apathy toward the abortion issue. llerrs was right when he said that an institution who puts up the truth for de­bate (in this case the biblical truth in regard to abortion) has little to offer its students. NO's weak stance on the morality of abortion as well as its strong commitment to evolutionism emanate from the same sin of disbelief in God's word. The secular serpentine Pied Piper is coming to a full circle and ND has shamefully followed him all the way. 
PIEDER BEELI Graduate Student of physics 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


IIoneof the ironies of 
the Clinton proposal is that people will be insured, but unemployed." 
Doug Kmiec ND Law professor 




DEFENSE TAKES INITIATIVE 
• With the offense folding Bobby Taylor and the Irish defense take .. comand. 





Hamilton's soggy day in the sun 
Defense carries load as offense sputters 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Editor 
"How about that drum?" 
That summed up the feeling of Notre Dame fans as they departed a wet and dreary Ross-Ade Stadium Saturday. 
The most exciting occurrence during Notre Dame's 17-0 win was the presence of the Purdue band and, of course, the world's largest bass drum, which has sadly gotten more publicity than the Boilermakers football team in past years and has been beaten as often. 
But you wouldn't have known it by Saturday's performance. Purdue stayed with the Irish until the overcast end and if it wasn't for defensive end Brian Hamilton's touchdown off a fumble recovery in the third quarter, Notre Dame may have fallen from the rankings as fast as the rain which pelted the field for the majority of the game. 
"It is nice to win a football game," said Holtz. "but you would like to play a com­plete football game." 
Notre Dame played far from complete, the Irish defense beat Purdue while the offense beat itself. Four turnovers and an inability to pass the football allowed the Boilermakers to stack players at the line 
See SPUTTER on page 2 


11128 TEAM (FIRST PLACE VOTES) RECORD POINTS 11119 
1. Florida 1545 1 
2. Alabama 1482 2 
3. Miami 1414 3 
4. Notre 1361 4 
5. Florida 1297 5 
6. Nebraska 1180 6 
7. Ohio State 1157 7 
B. Michigan 1077 8 
9. Penn State 1058 9 10. Oklahoma 1006 10 11. Tennessee 943 11 12. Arizona 782 15 13. Syracuse 750 12 14. Texas A&M 2-1-0 718 14 15. Washington 2-1-0 688 16 16. North Carolina 4-1-0 648 18 17. California 4-o~o 514 20 18. Louisville 4-0-0 429 24 19. Colorado 2-2-0 426 13 20. Brigham Young 4-0-0 415 21 21. Virginia 4-0-0 390 22 22. Wisconsin 4-0-0 338 23 23. Auburn 4-0cO 188 25 24. North Carolina State. 2-1-0., 73 19 25. West VirginiQ. 3..0-0 71 
Others receiving votes:'Sfarlford 39, Mississippi 34, Virginia Tech 25, Southern Cal 17, UCLA 17, Northwestern 13, Baylor 11, Georgia Tech 10, Fresno State 7, Hawaii 7, Kansas State 7, San Diego State 6, Oregon 4, Indiana 2, 
Clemson 1. · .·. · ·.· :. · •....••.•.·~ 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 




'··~ 


The media mobbed Brian Hamilton after Saturday's game. 
page 2 The Observer· FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, September 27, 1993 
Notre Dame defense gives Sample of its depth 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sporrs Ediwr 
Jeremy Sample slept easy Friday night. 
But why wouldn't he. His preparation for Saturday's matchup with Purdue was simple. Go down on the kickoff team and hit somebody. 
But Sample's job description increased considerably, as he was thrust into the heart of the Notre Dame defense after starting linebacker Pete Bereich suf­fered a shoulder separation late in the first quarter. 
"I was a little scared at first. I didn't expect it (his chance to play with the first team) to happen this way," said Sample. "But after a couple of plays things began to flow." 
Sample surprised Irish fans who con­sidered him a life-long backup when he stuffed running back Corey Rodgers on the final play of the third quarter. He read the draw perfectly and hammered the running back for a loss. It was a Bereich like play. 
"We called a blitz up front and our guys got a good surge," said Sample. "All I had to do was get to the ball carri­er and make the tackle." 
He did just that, finishing with four tackles (two for a loss) and broke up a pass. 
"When I first got on the field, I was thinking too much," said Sample. "I was looking at my wristcard too long and wasn't reacting. It was strange, but I finally got into the flow of things. It All this means for Sample is a perma­His size, 5'11 218 p9unds certainly Saturday. started coming natural then." nent member in a group he has longed doesn't measure up. His fellow starters "I was really pleased with the way 
Bereich's status for Saturday's game to be a part of. at linebacker measure 6'2" and 6'4". Jeremy Sample stepped in there," said at Stanford is questionable at best. The But Sample has a plan for overcoming Lou Holtz. x-rays revealed no breaks but it appears "I remember thinking that I just joined his size. "At halftime the guys were telling me that he will not be available this week a club today," said Sample. ''I'm a mem­"I run, I run for my life," he said. "I it was my turn to step up," said Sample. and may miss the following game ber but I have a long way to go to mea­use my speed." "I still have a lot of things to work on against Pittsburgh. sure up with the rest of the guys." Whatever he did, he got the job done but it feels good." 

fumble. But for the most part it was Notre Dame which did the giving. 
The Irish failed to take advantage of prime field position, sustaining only three drives with more than one first down. They also converted only 3 of 12 third down tries and 0-5 in the first half. 
"I did a poor job preparing the offense this week," said Holtz. "We did not execute well. As a teacher, that is my fault." 
Clint Johnson's 53-yard return of the opening kickoff gave Notre Dame the perfect opportunity to shift the momentum their way from the start, but the Irish turned the ball over on downs after a three yard loss by McDougal setting the tone for the day. 
"Our defense played a phenomenal game," said Colletta. "We talked long and hard the last two weeks about what defensive football is all about. We talked about what it takes to be a good defensive player." 
Purdue never got the chance on offense, starting three drives at their four yard line and gaining only 51 yards rushing and 173 through the air. 
"We came out in the third quarter and said, 'it was up to us (the defense)."' said defensive end Jim Flanigan. "The offense carried us for a long time last year, and it was just our turn to produce." 


Sputter 
from page I 
and stifle the Irish running game. 
The result was an offense out of sync and a close football game, which at Purdue usually only comes when Northwestern comes to town. 
"Today we played a great game against the No. 4 team in the coun­try," said Purdue head coach Jim Colletta. "I told my guys if they walk out of here with their heads down, I was going to kick them in the fanny.. .we gave them (Notre Dame) all their touchdowns." 
Hamilton's was the one which did the most damage, as it proved to be the only points Notre Dame would need. Safety Jeff Burris hit Purdue quarterback Matt Pike on a delayed blitz and the ball popped loose, hit­ting off linebacker Justin Goheen's helmet and landing in the arms of Hamilton. 
After stumbling and bumbling 34 yards the 6-foot-3, 275 pound line­man was thrown to the ground in the back of the endzone by his team­mates. 
"It just happened to go my way," said Hamilton. a tight end in high school. "All I saw was the endzone in front of me and I just wanted to get in." 
It was apparent that the Irish 
• Player ofthe Game 

BRIAN HAMILTON 

6'3" 275 lbs. senior Defensive end 
• Hamilton recovered two fumbles, including one that he returned 28 yards for a touchdown to break a score~ less tie late in the third quarter. 
defense would have to do the scoring, as Notre Dame quarterback Kevin McDougal seemed a little more than off with his passes. He finished the day three of nine for 34 yards and threw two interceptions, his first of the year. He was also yanked for a series in favor of Paul Failla. 
"I went with Paul a little bit," said Holtz. "It was a gut feeling, so to speak." 
Purdue gave the Irish a late Kevin Pendergast field goal (set up by a fumbled kickom and a Marc Edwards touchdown run, thanks to a Matt Pike 



l:d•• P.,.••J••A:Ipl• 
SEASON CUMUlATIVE AVERAGE: 3.1925 
QUARTERBACKS Worst performance of the season and the conditions weren't to blame 
RUNNING BACKS Loss of Becton hurt, but the group that played was less than outstanding 
RECEIVERS Mayes made some nice catches early; otherwise they didn't have many opportunities 
0-LINE McDougal had time to throw, and running holes were there; conditions hurt their overall performance 
D-UNE No pass rush, but made the big plays when it counted 
LINEBACKERS Sample a solid sub for Bereich, but coverage of backs was lacking 
SECONDARY Continued to play solid 
SPECIAL TEAMS Only positive was blocked field goal; bad plays far outweighed good 
COACHING Holtz said himself that he didn't prepare the team well enough for Purdue 
FINAL SCORE Lackluster performance against a lackluster opponent leads to a lackluster grade 
lQJ 
1!8 

t.:nJ 

ti!.J 

. 
w . 
l£d 
w 
l£J 
l9 


--------~------­
--~-----~~~--~--~-----­
Monday, September 27, 1993 The Observer • FOOTBALL MONDAY page3 
JOCK STRIP 
ake your pick with Irish offensive woes 

I
t would be nice to think that after a 53 yard kickoff return and a 17 yard run on the opening play that Notre Dame could score. Think again. 
The Irish offense resembled the unit that showed up George Dohrmann a g a i n s t Sports Editor Northwestern on opening day, rather than a group that has bonded together with big per­formances against Michigan and Michigan State. 


The reason? Take your pick. 
Maybe it was the Purdue defense. 
Now there's a stab in the dark. Purdue wasn't doing anything special on defense. Reading their defense was like reading a Playboy, all you had to do was look. They stacked players at the line of scrimmage daring the Irish to pass, which Notre Dame couldn't. 
In a poll taken after the Michigan game, one Reisman voter picked Kevin McDougal as his winner. He must feel like an idiot now. Hitting three of nine pass attempts doesn't warrant a parking spot outside the Downtown Athletic Club let alone an invitation to come inside and join the best college football players in the land. 
"He was the winning quarterback," was the response Holtz gave when asked to evaluate his quarterback's performance. That was the bright side. Nice bright side. 
"Purdue gave us a tough battle from the beginning to the end," said running back Randy Kinder. 
That they did, but calling a game against Purdue a battle is like calling a game of tic-tac-toe an epic challenge. 
It wasn't Purdue which made this game close it was the Irish. 
Maybe it was the rain. 
Nice try. The football was in good condition despite the rain, and not one player seemed to slip due to poor foot-
ing. 
Holtz blamed himself for the offensive inadequacies, stating that he did a poor job preparing his team. This was not a typical Notre Dame team, they looked fooled, unprepared. 
Maybe it was the band. 

Now that's an interesting notion. Who wouldn't be intimidated by the Purdue All-American band. 
Neil Armstrong played baritone horn back in 1952. And it is a little known fact that they were the first band to play in the Republic of Singapore. Who wouldn't be intimidated by that? 
Maybe it was the injuries. 

Sure the loss of Lee Becton effects the running attack. But if Becton were the featured back then Holtz wouldn't be searching for more backs like he has been all year. 
In one sense injuries did apply to the offense. Because they couldn't control the ball the defense spent much to long on the field and linebacker Pete Bereich is lost for the Stanford game. 
Maybe Notre Dame just isn't all that good on offense. 
Bingo. 
"This is probably more indicative (than the offense shown against Michigan) of what our offense is like," said Holtz. 
It is like no other during the Holtz era. Never before has a team had this much difficulty sustaining a running attack. The cry of hope this season has been: Holtz has never had a bad offense while at Notre Dame. Well, there's a first for everything. 
You could say it was just a bad day, an off day. But never has an Irish offense team looked that off. 
A cure? 
"I have a very, very bad cold," said Holtz after the game "I hope it turns into pneumonia because they can cure that." 
Maybe it needs to get worse before it can get better. The offense can't get any worse than Saturday's performance so it can only get better. Or maybe not. 

,' :4},1 }, t:::~~' ~
C' ' < ~ ""'"' ,,, <.., 
. '" 

....... • »,M,, '' ' 




--~ ----------.----·-----.---­
~----~~----­
page 4 

The Observer· FOOTBALL MONDAY Monday, September 27, 1993 
Defense shoulders offensive burden 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Scoring a game winning touchdown is a dream Brian Hamilton has probably had many times before. 
When a fumble popped into his hands in the second half of Saturday's game against Purdue, he saw nothing but open field, and the dream became a reality. 
The 6-foot-3, 275 pound defensive end trudged across the slippery turf, willing his way to the goal line. 
"All I saw was the end zone ahead of me," Hamilton said. "And all I wanted was to get there." 

It was a slow and soggy trip, but he made it, scoring the game-winning touchdown, courtesy of the Notre Dame defense. 
Locked in a surprising scoreless tie at halftime, the defense put the burden on itself to keep Notre Dame's record unblemished. 
"We came out in the third quarter and said 'It's up to us,"' defensive end Jim Flanigan said. "The offense has carried us for a long time. Today was just our turn to produce." 
"We had to be the horse today," Hamilton added. Considering the conditions, they were probably mudders. 
Rain soaked the field throughout the game and-coupled with the inconsis­tency of both offenses-turned it into a defensive struggle. 
Notre Dame's defense was little better, forcing five turnovers to keep Purdue off the scoreboard and put Notre Dame on it. 
"Scoring on defense is something we discuss all the time," senior safety Jeff Burris said. "Our goal always is to score or set up a score." 
The Irish proved that on the very first play of the season, when senior line­backer Pete Bereich returned an interception for a touchdown against 
Northwestern. 

He almost had another one Saturday when he stepped in front of a pass intended for Arlee Connors. Like Hamilton's fumble recovery, there was nothing but open field ahead, but the ball fell harmlessly to the turf and Purdue kept possession. 
It was virtually a meaningless play, but it provided an indication of the role the defense would play in the game. 
If the defense couldn't score, nobody would. 
Bobby Taylor made sure of that when blocked a field goal late in the first half, stopping Purdue's only serious offensive threat. 

Bad field position and mental errors kept the Boilermakers from mounting much of a threat. 
Purdue started three drives on their own four yard-line, and never got far­ther than the Irish 35. And several times the Boilermaker offense looked like it didn't know which way to go. 
"Offensively, we had guys going the wrong way, there were blitzes where we should have thrown the ball and we didn't," said Purdue coach Jim Colletto. "If you run option football and some­body goes the wrong way, you've got problems. Somebody sometime has to make a big play." 

The only big plays on Saturday came from the Notre Dame defense. Confusing and containing the Boilermakers from start to finish, the defense looked comfortable carrying the offensive burden. 
"Our defense played an excellent fun­damental football game," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "We had four turnovers on offense and our defense got four back. The turnovers set the tempo of the game." 
Before the season began, defensive coordinator Hick Minter said that the Irish defense accepted the challenge of leading the team. 
Saturday, they rose to that challenge. 

-






0 z<C 
:EN 
QN 
ca. 


3 0. 
SPECTACUlAR . 
e 

· SLICES Orderwithyour 
r-.nrc;>~ favorite toppings. Over 2 feet long. 
L..J\....JL.S \..JL./ 30 inches...That's almost ayard of pizza. 
r
EIUUFIC 
UESDAT SPECIAL 


CHEESE DOMINATOR $6.95 

EXTRA 

TOPPINGS... $1.90EACH 
DOMINATOR DELIVERED TO STUDENTS ONLY 
-===::-..:...-:--·· 

v.-., at po11apa1ng Skr.. orly. Not void wtlh ony -ctlo( Pnoto moy Wll'f CUstomer pays soloo tax -·opPJOOtj~ 0111-..y orl<l! lnittd 
to lfi!IUrt &aft a>Mg o.. mw1 cary,,.. lllon S20.00 o.. d_, art na ponottztd 1o< tae detvtniS. 1993 Souf1 Boncl f'lz2o Ccrp., .,.,_ LJrrottdTlmt()k 
E 
X 
T 
R A 
s 

TWISTY BREAD & SAUCE .... 1.95 Garlic Sauce or Pizza Sauce Available Upon Request 
COKE or DIET COKE .....65 I can 1.95/ 2-liter 




ACCE-NT 
Monday, September 27, 1993 page 9 
Community-saving efforts at hon1e and abroad 
Nobel Prize Winner seeks to heighten awareness of our children's well-being 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Despite her fame and interna­Accent Writer tional reputation, however, Williams has maintained a 
United and motivated by rage direct and passionate commit­at the senseless killing of three ment to the well-being of chil­youths by a terrorist's getaway dren. car in Belfast. Northern Ireland Jay Brandenberger, in 1976, Betty Williams and Coordinator of Experiential Mairead Corrigan began a non­Seminars and Justice Education violent campaign to protest the at the Center for Social sectarian violence destroying Concerns, praised Williams for the lives of local children. "being able to bridge the gap 
With no systematic strategy in between the individual caretak­mind, they led a grass roots ing of a child and dealing with movement resulting in a series the complex issues of injustice. 
of marches through hostile .. Some people have a very Belfast streets with as many as strong philosophical commit­10,000 women on one day. ment to issues of peace and jus­
For their peacemaking efforts tice, but not the same sense of the two women, previously urgency." unknown on the international Williams, a Catholic, and scene, were awarded the Nobel Corrigan, a 
Peace Prize in 1977. faced opposition from defend­Seventeen years later, ers of both religious traditions Williams is one of the world's when they began their work in ~~~~~~~~~-.~~~llllf!~-~--....--...--"P.1il...'llfilllllli--llili!..llllliiiiiiijll••
Belfast, where they had been message continues to be that diplomats, sai Lopez. oping comprehensive orms offoremost advocates of social dubbed "traitors" by angry people outside of the system of Since being awarded the research to understand the
justice and children's issues. 
Catholics for betraying the government and political power Nobel Prize, Williams has for-needs of children everywhere. 
The local campaign she began 
faith. can, and must, take action to mulated a comprehensive Lopez, who first met Williams with Corrigan in 1976, eventu­It remains a testimony to the change the economic and social method of dealing with social about 10 years ago at a Nobelally grew into the Community of power of Williams' approach structures which perpetuate injustice and turning anger into lecture series, was impressedPeace People, an organization that in the face of this divisive, injustice and serve as the root action. She validates rage and by her "insight and personalstill active in Northern Ireland 
politically heated situation, she causes of war. confusion about injustice as an humanness" when discussingtoday. 
and Corrigan managed to focus "The Community of Peace impetus for taking the next strategic and tactical responses Williams continues her efforts 
on the suffering of innocent People," remarked Lopez, step, obtaining extensive to violence. 
by delivering lectures world-
children whose plight tran-"gained important political, and knowledge about the situation. Lopez calls Williams' life and "I feel our children scended political and religious in some cases, symbolic value. "Through knowledge, under-action "a testimony to the fact have lost the art of boundaries. It created a political space and standing will develop and the that within all of us. there is the playing, and I would By making the well-being of a precedent for lots of 'regular fear associated with initiating potential to be a Nobel Prize love to give it back to youth a simpler, more urgent people' groups to speak out action will be eliminated. From winner, to do something signifi­them." "question of justice," they were against violence." this, solutions to the many cant for the values we hold 
able to develop a broad base of With the presentation of the crises affecting children world-dear." 
-Betty Williams support for their efforts. Peace Prize to Williams and wide, the children who are our In 1976, Williams said, "I feel Corrigan, the Nobel Committee future generation-the future of our children have lost the art of has altered the way it has our world, will emerge," states
wide on the plight of children in playing, and I would love to judged subsequent candidates, Williams who is currently act-regions affiicted by poverty and give it back to them." according to Lopez. ing as the director of the Global violence. Through the years, 
According to George Lopez, "It really began to make it Children's Studies Center being 
she has worked with Mother government professor and act-more acceptable for the Nobel formed in Huntsville, Texas. 
Teresa of Calcutta, Pope John ing director of the Joan B. Kroc Committee to look at 'average At the Center, Williams envi­
Paul II, Jimmy Carter and Bill Institute for International Peace people' for the Peace Prize" as sions scholars accessing aClinton on a variety of in­Studies, Williams' principal opposed to strictly high profile multimedia database and devel­ternational peace initiatives. 

ND students team up with community to combat homelessness 
By JEANNIE SHIN work on either their own home or at

/ 7 / I I / '\ '\... "-... " "\ \ 
. -~~=~~====-~==,~d~~~d~ another Habitat for Humanity site. "It's not just a charitable act, because 
~~=~=~===~=~~=~ 
I • , , . 7 . , "~,"· \' <'' ·~ .
l==~:r.=~/===::::::::;/;:==;:= .__\_;_-II Five families in the northeast neigh-the families are intensely involved. This /1 / ; / ~ \ \ \ -·, \ borhood of St. Joseph County are now "The greatest thing about
I
~;~~~~~~~ •I3~~~~~E::j living in newly-built homes thanks to the cooperation of a group of ND/SMC stu-Habital for Humanity is that 
,. 


Ill :::5 :::1 dents and members of the South Bend it's a coo_perative affair with 
community. not only tfie city of South Bend During the first week of August, the but with the families and ND.,.---1 Notre Dame/St. Mary's chapter of and SMC students." 
from the ground up for those in need of -Meagan Butler ahome. 
The Notre Dame/St. Mary's chapter is a four-year-old organization that carries way, it's not a question of losing pride or out the goals of Habitat for Humanity on about hand-outs but about the coopera­the local level. tion of volunteers who gather as a com-
Over two hundred members in the munity to help those who are less fortu­ND/SMC chapter are involved in this nate," explained Butler. "constructive way to combat homeless-"Helping out the families was a really ness," according to Butler. gratifying experience," said junior and 
"The greatest thing about Habitat for chapter member David Joseph. "It was Humanity," said senior and chapter Co-fun to work with all of the students, and President Meagan Butler, "is that it's a the families were so grateful." cooperative affair with not only the city The three major events particular to 
of South Bend but with the families and the ND/SMC's chapter are educational


t-~--. ---. ,-­
_j 
ND and SMC students." functions to promote awareness,

r­
~ 
Habitat for Humanity is an in-fundraisers to keep the non-profit pro­

~ 
_-­
.__ "j 
ternational organization which concen-gram alive and "Blitz Week," the actual 

r-j II 
trates on fighting homelessness, creat-on-site work week. ing awareness about the issue and Projects in the near future for Habitat 
j ~ 
rehabilitating homes to livable condi-for Humanity include the "House 

L
_:===~l:.,.~Jitl..,.,___...._.. 
tions. Warning," the international headquar­
~-.....,+---1 
~ 
Unlike other charity organizations, ter's one-time national television pro­

~ 
i== 
...,___ 
-

rfMl....J :/. /'4 /l11/l...\­
Habitat for Humanity firmly stresses the gram to promote awareness of the orga-

II 4 -A -\ 
involvement of the families. In order to nization, and the refurbishing of homes 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~~~7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ reccive~d.iliefumilymu~submitan onR~hStre~in~.~~phCou~~ ~-~~ ::J!''II::.,.~~==:::::j~~.f f.tll'ff:.=~~~ ~ /): application, qualify for aid, and donate Habitat for Humanity can be contacted 
-m~ '~~ 1 'f!', ~ I c\ 9 I "sweat hours." through the Center for Social Concerns 

----------------------------------~-~~----------------------------·-·s_w_e_a_t_h_o_u-rs_"_e_n_t_at-·l_3_5_0_-5_0_0
__ho_u_r_s_o_f___at--63_1_·_5_2_9_3_.__________________________.­

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 27, 1993 
Freshman Hood leads Irish in victory in National Catholics 
By JONATHAN JENSEN fmished seventh. Associatl' S ns Editor Going in the Irish were most con· cerned with getting some practice in 
The Notre Dame women's cross­running as a team, together in a pack, country team captured the National since their opening race loss to Catholic Invitational Friday, as Emily Georgetown two weeks ago hadn't Hood, Sarah Riley. and Kristi Kramer afforded them the opportunity. swept the top three spots to take home They had also set a goal of finishing the victory. at least five girls in the top ten, maybe 
The big story of the meet was the seven. performance of Hood. who effortlessly Though they failed to accomplish ran away from the pack during the either of these goals, as only Riley and home stretch and cruised to the easy Kramer crossed the fmish line together win. and they finished only four in the tp 
"I think she ran a great race," said ten, they still felt they had a successful Riley, "We were trying to run in a race. pack, but if you feel good and think "We do need to do a better job o you can move up, you should, and running in a pack," noted Riley, "As Emily did." we hit the second mile we started to 
"I'm happy," was just about all Hood spread out a bit, and we shouldn't o could say about her impressive race. done that. But I think as the season 
"Kristi also broke her PR (Personal progresses, we will get better at stay~ record) here," noted Riley, "So that ing together more." was also excellent." 
Besides the performances of the top "We have a long way to go to be a three, the Irish also got an excellent real good team," said Irish coach Tim race from junior Maureen Kelly, who Connelly, "But it's there." 

Women golfers win Ferris State Invite 
By ELAINE SIRMANS our upperclassmen," said Irish coach Tom Spores Writer Hanlon. The team finished ninth in its previous 
The Notre Dame women's golf team two outings at Illinois State and Michigan continued their improvement as they cap­State. However, at Michigan State last tured the Ferris State Invitational title this week, the team was able to beat Purdue, weekend for the second-straight year. Michigan and Northern Illinois, something 
The team shot a combined 638 for the they were not able to do at Illinois State. two-round tournament 
"The team is capable of shooting consis­in Big Rapids, tently in the 70's, and we are starting to Michigan, and senior get closer to that. Once we become Alicia Murray won the consistent with that, we will become a gold medal, finishing contender in more of our tour­first with a score of naments, "said Hanlon. 
155. Also encouraging is the play of some of "The team gained a the underclassmen. Sophomore Julie lot of confidence after Melby and junior Kathleen Shannon have this win. It was a big Alicia Murray both had strong fall seasons. Both have mental help. Alicia has played consistently in all three of the fall had a really solid fall, tournaments and continue to improve. she deserved the gold medalist," said "The underclassmen are coming along, senior co-captain Christine Klein. it is hard for some of them to prove them­
The Irish have made gradual improve­selves, especially the freshman, because ment over this season after the loss of the season starts so early. But a few have captain Kathy Phares to graduation. really done the job, and they will be even 
"We lost our captain and number-one better in the spring," said Hanlon. player last year to graduation. But we The women's final opportunity of the have become an even stronger and more fall season will be on October 16 and 17, experienced team as the season has worn against a field of 21 teams at the Ohio on. I am really encouraged by the play of State Buckeye Classic. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassofieds must be prepaid. The


Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
NOTICES 

Experience the ultimate of all sports-SKYDIVING! Train with Great Lakes Skydivers in Sept. and receive 10% off our 1st Jump Course. with student ID. West Michigan's oldest & most experi­enced Parachute Club. USPA affili­ated. One hour North of South Bend. (616)628-4892 
Typing 287-4082 
WANTED: MALE WHO ENJOYS RUNNING AND EATING PAN· CAKES. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
Executive Secretary will do typing in Wordperfect. $1 per page. Will pick up and deliver. Call Linda: 284-6445 days or 277-9120 evenings. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND Sunday 9/19 on the east 
side of the library on a ledge: dorm 
keys and car keys. Call Doug at 
234-6306 to claim. 
LOST: A Diamond Tennis Bracelet 
at Red Field. Offering a REWARD 
of $100. If found call Alicia at 
273-6897. Extreme sentimental 
value. 
Lost: Green army-type bookbag 
with German book and dictionary. 
Reward. 237-0659. 
Found-Silver necklace. Call271­
2911 to Identify 
Found -Gold bracelet @ Campus View Apts. Call 273-5909 to identify 
Found -Elizabeth A.__, 
l found your football tix in 
DeBartolo. 
Call 273-6405 
I LEFT MY WALLET IN THE FIRST RACKET BALL COURT LAST NIGHT AT THE ROCK. I WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE GETIING MY ID BACK. IF THERE IS STILL MONEY IN THE WALLET I WILL BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO OFFER A REWARD. CALL ME BRYAN MEYER #2115 OR LEAVE IT WITH MY RECTOR AT STAN­FORD HALL. 
WANTED 

FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI EARN $2500 & FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPSI SELL ONLY 8 TRIPS & GO FREE! BEST TRIPS & PRICESI BAHAMAS. CANCUN, JAMAICA, PANAMA CITYI1-800­678-63861 
WE HERE AT STUDIO-S ARE 
LOOKING FOR MODELS TO 
POSE FOR POSTERS-N-CALEN­
DARS.THOSEINTERESTED 
CALL 271-1371 OR COME IN 
52029 US 31 N. HOURS ARE 
10AM-6PM MON-FRI GREEKSICLUBSISTUDENT GROUPSI Raise as Much as You Want In One Weeki $100...$600... $15001 Market Applications for Citibank VISA, MCI, SEARS, AMOCO etc. Call for your FREET-SHIRT and to qualify for FREE TRIP to MTV SPRING BREAK '94. CALL 1-800-932-0528, EXT. 65. 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching basic conver­sational English abroad. Japan. Taiwan, and S.Korea. Make up to $2000-$4000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other bene­fits. No previous training or teaching certificate required. For more infor­mation call: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn up to $2000-$4000 or more per month on fishing vessels or in canneries. Many companies provide transportation and room & board. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For more information call:1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584 
FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII 
Individuals and Student Organizeations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break 
Destinations, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus Programs 
1-800-327-6013 

Desire companion to/fro Sarasota Fl. Thanks vac. in exchange for par­tial air fare. 291-5401 
WANTED: DOMER WHO LIKES TO RUN. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY. OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
In need of a business statistics 
tutor. will pay $. Call Deanna 
@ 284-5007 ASAPI 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES­ND/SMC EVENTS (219) 291-7153 
1 block from N.D. Apartments at 755 South Bend Ave. 1 bedrm-240, 2 bedrm-330, dep., references 1­800-582-9320 
Bed & Breakfast -Riverfront ­
Private. 
257-9101 

LARGE 6 BDRM HOME. FURN. 
SECURITY SYSTEM. WALK TO 
CAMPUS. 1 BDRM NEAR CAM­
PUS $225. M0.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
KEYBOARD Yamaha DX-27 w/ Accesories $300 or best. call KJ @ 232-7838 
TICKETS 
I NEED ND GA FOOTBALL TIXS.272-6306 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL JANE AT 1-800-264-3278. 
FSU TIX NEEDEDIIIIIIII CALL CRAIG @273-3942 PLEASEII 
Need 2 Fla. St. GA's 
Best offer-call T J 232-5030 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR USC MATI@ 232-3870 
NO vs USC -Need tickets for 
10/23 game.Chris Marks 
800-523-3139. 
Need 8 PITI GA's Will take any combination. $Call Amy 2658 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR 
GOOD USC AND FLORIDA ST. 
GA:s 2773097 
#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ 
Helpl I need four tickets to the 
Boston College game.... 
It you would like to make a hot babe's day with 4 tix, call Elisa at 
634-2703 ... 

@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# 
HAVE GA's EACH HM GM 
271-1681 

NEEDED: 2 Pitt GA'S Tony x3327 
Need 2 USC tickets, stud or GA 
Need FSU tickets, stud or GA 
Call Dave at 4-3507 
NEED 2 PITI GA'S & 2BCSTUDTIX x2300 
Will buy or trade 2 BC GAs for 2 Pitt or USC GAs. Kim @ x2545 
NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO USC. 
Please call Lisa after 
5 P.M. at 232-2728. 
lmportantllllllll!l!lllllll!lllll 
Need 2 or 4 GA's for BC 
NO Alum-Fanatic 
Will pay any pricellllllll 
Call Katie 4-3390 
(leave message) 
NEEDED 2-4 TICKETS ND-FLA 
STATE CALL COLLECT 502-354­
8826 AFTER 5 PM WANTED: 2 USC GA's. 
Will trade 2 BC Married St Tix (no ID needed) and$$$$. 
Call Dan @ 273-1497 
I NEED 3 PITT GA'S BADLY MIKE x2292 
HELPII NEED 2 GA's FOR BC ­WILL SELL 1 PITI GA CALL HELEN x4026 
I NEED GA'S FOR USC & BC NICKX1777 
PITI AND USC GA s WANTED FOR RICH ALUMNI $$$232-1348 
NEED4USC2 FSU GASJC X2210 
NEED GAs FOR PITI GAME 
PLEASE CALL 273-4979 
ASK FOR SUSANNE :-) 
LEAVE A MESSAGE$$$$$$ 
########################### 
Need 2 PITI GAs (bad seats preferred) for my in-laws.273-0282 
DYING GRANDPARENTS' LAST WISH: SEE PITT VS. NO NEED 2 PITI GA'S DONALD x1724. 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR ANY HOME 
GAME. MIKE @ 1724 
Need 2-4 FSU Heather 284-5261 
NEED 2 PITI GA'S MIKE x1534 
NEED 1 USC GA. CALL ED X1194. 
4 Football Tickets Notre Dame/BYU (801)798-2340 Evenings. 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX TO FLORIDA STATE. WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. GRANDMA WANTS TO GO TO GAME. CALL CHUCK AT 708-479­1429 
NEED TICKETS 
I need tickets for these games: 
BC (student ticket) 
PITI (student and GAs) Call Jen or Nicky at X1308 
SALE 2 PITI & BC GA's 
Call Dan x3666 
Stud Tixbook 4 sale.Call233­
5735,7-8p.m 
NEED FLORIDA ST TIX General Adm. only. Call Sam Santo (H) 201­217-0030 (W) 201-992-8700 
FOR SALE 
GAs for all 
home games 
& Stanford 
288-5282 
Need FSU stud tix 
call Aaron @ 272-341 8 
..HOT BABE..HOT BABE''HOT'' 
Needs 1 Male and 1 Female STUD ticket for USC. CALL x: 2703//ask tor ELLIEII 
BABE..HOT BABE..HOT BABE.. 
NEED PITT tix X3731 -Reeny 
Need GA's to any Home Game 232-1852 
Need 1 USC G.A.I Will buy or trade for 2 Pitt G.A.s Call Karen at 4-4987. 
4sale Pitts tix x4405 
Need Pitt GA's Call Andy @3654 
Please help my Uncle live a lifelong dream: I need 2 BC GA's and a female student ticket. Call Sean at 4-3479 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED FSU TICKETS CALL JOHN 271-1706 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR 
USC OR BC PLEASE CALLI II MAIRIN AT X2493 
4 SALE: PITI USC and BC TIX @ 273-0531 
Needed -2 tickets for Pittsburgh/NO Game. Call634-4023 
NEED 2 BYU TIXI PLS CALL (801)484-7108 
Will give big bucks and parents weekend GA's for FSU GA's. Call Mike at X1620! 
••••••••••••• WANTED ••••••••••••• I need USC tickets for my groovy friends. Would like GA's but Student Tickets are cool too! Call Amy at 4-1339. Thanksllll!lllllll 
Desperately seeking 3 Pitt GA's or Stud. Call Brian at 4-1553 
I NEED two Pitt GA's Call Matt at x1686 
I NEED PITI TICKETS 
CALL AMANDA @ 232-6984 
PERSONAL 
Predjudice is all in your head. glndlsmc po 194 NO IN 46556 
••• NEW ••• NEW ••• NEW ••• COLOR COPIES & TRANSPARENCIES at 0¢0 THE COPY SHOP 000 in the LaFortune Student Center 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey Off-campus seniors .... 
The PW talent show needs you II 
We are having it on Thursday, Sept 30 in Theodores .... 
It's big time now so get your acts together and call Jen Marten at 634­2706 to sign up! Ill 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
Hey PWites ... 
The talent show is coming ... 
We need acts II Be daring ... Be bold ... You don't have to have any real talent...just be cre­ative Ill 
The big event will be at 7 p.m. in Theodores on Thursday, Sept. 30. 
To sign up, see Jen Marten. 
PWPWPWPWPWPWPWPWPW 
ADOPTION: We offer love, encour­agement and security to the pre­cious life your are carrying; a full­time mom and loving dad; married 
12 years; promises that your child will have every opportunity. Please call Phil and Maureen at (800)545­
8195. 
WANTED: ANYONE WHO LOVES PANCAKES AND IS WILLING TO RUN 3 OR 6 MILES TO GET THEM. DOMER RUN-SATUR­DAY, OCTOBER 2. CALL 631-6100 FOR MORE INFO. 
AnTostal General Meeting. 7:00pm in the Hesburgh Auditorium. Monday, September 27th. All gen­ders. sexes, years, classes. people. dorms, associations, groups, con­claves, pairs, triads, diopolies ..are more than welcome. We need to choose an executive council. and the positions are open to any inter­ested males/females/ undeclareds. 7:00pm, Monday Sept. 27th, Hesburgh Auditorium. 
ATIENTION SOPHOMORESI!I! 
Class Mass is Oct. 3, 2:00 p.m. at 
the Grotto. (If rain: Keenan­
Stanford Chapel) 
Father Miscamble will preside. 
Don't miss this opportunity to cele­
brate Mass with friends! 
Four blind, red-headed nymphos 
from Fordham are begging for USC 
tickets. Will pay with cash or their 
bodies. Want to see if the rumors 
about Irish men are true. Call 4­
4212 ask for Betty. 
Yoo Hool Oh Sexy Roomie Have a Happy 20th Liz 
P.S. Don't have too much fun in the Soy Bean Capital of the World 





Monday, September 27th, 1993 


(TODAY) 
7 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Anyone and Everyone is invited No experience necessary 
THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL PRESENTS, AS PART OF THE 

SEPTEMBER 27-OCTOBER 1 12:00PM-1:00 PM 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 
THE KOREAN CLUB 



TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1 
THE NATIVE THE GERMAN CLUB AMERICW CLUB 
Spcm-ilJrd. 6y: :Vu(ti.-u(tllra( Lt«utwt Counci£ 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 


See you at Fieldhouse 
Mall for cultural 
enrichment!
THE JAPAN CLUB 

For more information, please calll-7308 
... 



~----------­

-~----~-~----~ 
page 12 The Observer • YOLLEYBALL Monday, September 27, 1993 


Olivet no match for strong Saint Mary's defense 
ByJENNIFER GUSTAFSON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Sparked by a strong defense, the Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Olivet College 15-1, 15-7, 15-1, and Kalamazoo College 11-15, 16-14, 15-7, 15­5, in Kalamazoo on Thursday night. 
The double victory upped the Belles' record to 9-6 on the sea­son. 
Belles' coach Julie Schroeder­Biek was pleased with the team's performance, noting a strong improvement from last weekend's disappointing loss to Illinois Benedictine College. 
"We were rested and men­
tally more ready to play," she said. "We learned a lot from IBC and played together more like a team instead of individu­als." 
In the Belles' opening win against Olivet, everyone saw playing time. Sophomore Angela McNulty felt that this showed the team's depth. 
"We all played well together," said McNulty. "We put different combinations on the court and everyone reacted well." 
The Belles then moved on to face Kalamazoo, who proved to be much tougher competition. 
Play started out slow versus the Hornets, but the Belles were able to pick up the pace after the first game. 
"In the first game we played slowly and lost," noted McNulty. "But then we picked up our levels of competition and play and did what we had to do." 
Schroeder-Biek pointed out that the Belles remained in con­trol throughout most of the match. The only lapse of this control occurred in the second game when the Belles gave up an 11-2 lead, yet still held on to win 16-14. 
"We maintained control of the match. Even in shaky times we stayed level-headed," she ex­plained. 
Besides a strong mental 
game, the Belles also played a much tougher physical game against Kalamazoo. 
According to Schroeder-Biek, the Belles' passing game was much better, as was position­ing. 
The biggest strength for the team. however, was the de­fense, which was led by senior tri-captain Kim Branstetter, who provided 25 digs, and se­nior transfer Erica Frietag, who added 21 digs. 
Schroeder-Biek also credited McNulty with several key digs. 
"Angela came in well off the bench. Although she only had six digs, they were at key times," she said. "She also passed well and served strong when I needed her to." 
As the Belles head into a tough week of competition, Schroeder-Biek noted that fo­cus at practice will be centered on quickening the offensive game. 
The win against Kalamazoo was especially satisfying for the seniors, who have never de­feated the Hornets. 
"It felt incredible to finally beat Kalamazoo," explained se­nior tri-captain Michelle Martino. "They were really sur­prised-! don't think that they were expecting us to beat them." 

P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U :"\ D RET I R EM EN T I :"\\'EST I N G 

The University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Information Meeting 
with Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer 
Tuesday? September 28 "4:30p.m. 207 DeBartolo 
Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 



-:tf}hv!~
~0P,.NO CONCER'' 'HE SUMMER SHOW 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 + 7:30PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Marys College 
$1 6, $1 1 non-Saint Mary's students, and 
$10 Saint Mary's students at Saint Mary's 
College Box Office. Charge By Phone 
219-284-4626. 
Lookfor George's latf'st album, SUMMER, at your favorite music store. 
Please join us in support of the Center for the Homf'less by bringing a donation of canned food to the concert. 
· ~ A DANCING CAT PRODUCTION · -·· · . 
· .• ·::­

T
hink about supporting yourself for twenty-five, thirty years or longer in retirement. It might be the greatest financial test you'll ever face. Fortunately, you have one valuable asset in your favor. Time. 
Time to take advantage oftax-deferral. Time for your money to grow. 
But starting early is key. Consider this: ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at age thirty, you can accumulate $172,109* by the time you reach age sixty-five. Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside $219 a month to reach the same goal. 
Start planningytmrfuture. Call tmr Enrollment Hotline 1800 842-2888. 
75 years ofensuring the future for those who shape it:"' 


*A,f,fUmilll/ '"' intcrc.rt f"lllt ,,f i.OO% acthtcJ /11 TlriA Rtliruntnl rlmruitia. Thi.r rdit i.r U.fttl ,c,,[tf-y It• ,rh,•u.• tht pt•v.otrmul d(ttl ,,ft'itnlpt•umlin&~. /~,,u.•a ••r b,t~bu rd/o u.•t•ultl . pr11tltta l'tr_v tli((trrnt ruu/t.r. CREF art~/ttafu,rrt tli.rtributtd h.v T/Arl-CRF.F huJi,.,(J,ud llncl/n,rtt'tullimtd Stri'U'(,I. 
At TIAA-CREF. we not only under­stand the value of starting early, we can help make it possible-with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of' investment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research are already enrolled in America's largest retirement system. Find out how easy it is to join them. Call today and learn how simple it is to put yourself through retirement when you have time and TIAA-CREF on your side. 

Volleyball
, 
continued from page 16 
Stark, who joined Peters on the all-tournament team, showed her own skills against a highly regarded Nebraska front line, adding 13 kills and 6 total blocks to the Irish effort. 
This was especially evident at the end of the second game, where she accounted for the last three Irish points. 
"Against their block, we re­ally needed to pass well, and we were able to do that," noted Brown, whose team improved to 10-3. "We wanted to run all the options on our offense. and try not to hit to the middle very often." 
This scheme was effective all night, as Peters. Stark, and Coates were able to isolate on the sides against only one blocker. 
Also, Karlan kept the Huskers guessing by using a variety of plays and all the hitters avail­able, mixing up sets to the out­side with quickset slides and crosses in the middle. 
Notre Dame dropped game three by a lopsided 15-3 mar­gin, but Brown never sensed a collapse. 
"We became tight in game three, but between games we calmed down and realized that all the pressure was on Nebraska," said Brown. 
In game four. the Irish showed a great deal of poise, as the score remained close until reaching a 10-10 deadlock. At this point, the Irish went on a run that proved to be the deci­sive factor in handing Nebraska its first defeat of the year. 
Freshman Jenny Birkner started things off with a tip kill to gain possession, and sopho­more Brett Hensel evened the game with a service ace. 
Using a relentless scrambling defense, the Irish frustrated ev­ery Husker opportunity and used kills by Coates and Stark to lead 14-10. The match ended with Nebraska hitting a desperation shot into the net. 
"I can't stress enough that our assistant coaches did a re­ally good job," praised Brown. "Steve (assistant coach Steve Schlick) did intensive scouting of Nebraska. and made some really important calls down the stretch." 
The win is Notre Dame's first over a team in the top three. It came after a weekend that could have been disastrous, as the Irish fell to an underrated Santa Clara squad earlier in the tournament. 
Despite a tournament-record 31 kills from Peters. the Irish lost a 2-0 lead to the pesky Broncos, led by all-tournament performer Lia Young (19 kills) and middle-blocker Holly Racine (25 kills ..309 %). 
"We weren't looking ahead as much as we just were not in sync," explained Brown. "We didn't play smooth, and we didn't pass well." 
After the disappointing de­feat, Notre Dame was able to rebound Saturday morning against SW Missouri State, win­ning 15-11, 15-13, 16-14 in a match that saw the Irish use eleven players in extensive ac­tion. 


Along with Peters' 14 kills, freshman Kristina Ervin had 12 kills, senior co-captain Julie Harris hit for a .636 per­centage, and sophomore setter Shannon Tuttle added 31 as­sists. 
Notre Dame will not have much time to regroup after the tournament, hosting DePaul at the J.A.C.C. Tuesday at 7:30 pm. 

~----------------------·------------------------~------------~-------~----------~----------------­

Monday, September 27, 1993 The Observer • MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY page 13 
Irish men sweep National Catholics 
By DYLAN BARMMER rounded out the top five. satisfied with the results, while 
Sports Writer Sixteen other colleges and uni­remaining focused on the work versities also competed in the that the remainder of the sea­
The Notre Dame men's cross race. son will demand. country team scored a convinc­Freshman Matt Althoff fin­"The whole purpose of the ing victory Friday afternoon, ished eleventh for the Irish, and meet was to train for our sweeping the first four places J.R. Meloro finished seven­stretch run in November," com­on their way to dominating the teenth. mented Piane. "It was a good rest of the field at the National The Irish team stuck with meet. The kids competed very Catholic Invitational. Nate their plan to run as a group, well. John Cowan may have Ruder, Mike McWilliams, Derek and nearly pulled off a sweep of run the best race of the bunch, Seiling, and John Cowan gained the top five spots. The first as he bounced back today after the top four spots, and the team three Notre Dame finishers all struggling in our first meet." finished with a total of 21 finished within tenths of sec­Senior captain McWilliams, points. onds of each other. who finished second overall 
LaSalle University finished a "We hung together well as a with a time of 25:01.3, also 
The Observer/Sean Farnan distant second with 75 points, group," said first-place finisher saw the race as a preparation Irish runners Nate Ruder (from right), Mike McWilliams, and Derek and Marquette (98), Canisius Ruder, who ran a 25:01.0. for the future. Seiling took the top three spots in the National Catholic Invitational. (115). and Duquesne (150) "The team has so much depth "We were basically preparing 
GRADUATE STUDLNT IZ!:TJ\Li\T 
Friday, October 1S-Saturdav, Cktoix'r 1 h 8:00p.m. (24 hour.'>) K:OO p.m. 
,------------------·--­
A tin1c of silence and rertect.ion, companionship and convcrs~ttion. The rl'lkctions will be orrcred princip~tlly by Graduate Student.\. 
l'l.ICe: l\1ary's Solitude at U1e back of the St. 1\lary's College Cuupus. 
l'l.IIJJIIIIg: Gradu,lle students interested Ill this !PIIC,JI ,JIC itl\'ill'd oliHI tll):ed to attend a one hour meeting ~1\)J_H_la_y,_Q_(\!:ilieJ_.ll ,}_;OQ.:J'~flD_p.nL. in the !·is< her Gradu.lle Conlllltlnity r ctlll'l 111 otdct to lwlpl>l.llt tlw "''"';tt. 
I >eadhnc: Reservations will be accepted until ~lond,Jy, OrtohL'I I I 
Con tart 1'1 . .John (;er hc1, C.S.C:., Fisrhc1 l(c~idcnrPs (,\I /l(,()h or Sharon at Fis• her ComiHunity Center (,ll-llb07. Cost: SIS.OO 1(,, thr cn.101 of mr.lls and oc;n.ll ks. 
~~ 
(Z\MPUS MIN!STRY 
this year that we were able to for the next week," said stay together as a group, which McWilliams. "We will be up is very important." against a great amount of tal­
Head coach Joe Piane seemed ent at next week's meet." 





The Observer 
Are you a freshman, sophomore, or junior interested in sales? 

(It is a paid position!) 
Work your own hours and at your own pace ... Applicant should be highly motivated and flexible. Anyone interested please contact Anne Heroman, 
Advertising Manager, at the Observer 631-6900 

THE MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL PRESENTS, AS PART OF THE 

SEPTEMBER 27-OCTOBER 1 12:15 PM -1:00 PM 


MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 
AIDS Learn about the myths and realities of living with AIDS from an HIV positive speaker 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
TODAY'S FAMILIES Dr. Joan Aldous: "How could Murphv Brown and Dan Quayle both be right'!" 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 
"ON THE ROAD AGAIN" Learn about the subculture of truck drivers from a South Bend-based trucker 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30 

•
NEW WINGS OF FAITH Reverend Coates, ofNew Wings of Faith, tallces about the spirituality of his multicultural church 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1 
THE OUTBACK Father Miscamble shares his insight on the continent of Australia 
.SPt'"-.~art.d 6y. 
:1fu(llcu{wra(·£>;,e<ullvt Councif 

See you in Room 202 LaFortune for FREE 
LUNCH and great 
conversation! 
For more information, 
please calll-7308 



--~-----~------­
page 14 The Observer. SOCCER Monday, September 27, 1993 

Soccer 
continued from page 16 
"This time the result really shows how we played," Lester said. 
The Irish capped the week­end by extending their winning streak to 13 games with the victory over SMU. 
Although not ranked, Southern Methodist is consid­ered one of the top teams in the nation. It knocked off 17th ranked Wisconsin in the opener of the Golden Dome Classic on Friday. It was, however, signif­icantly hurt by the loss of its best player, Kara Lee, who re­ceived a red card in the game versus the Badgers. 
The Irish played a lackluster first half, unable to muster enough intensity to put away the underdog Lady Mustangs. The score was locked at zero through the first fifty two min­utes of the game. 
Guerrero scored her first goal 
7:13 into the second half and then gave Notre Dame all the offense it would need. She scored again six minutes later and netted the game winner at the 64:15 mark. The first two scores were both assisted by sophomore Michelle McCarthy. 
The third goal should be at­tributed to the pure effort and desire of Lester. After stealing rifled it past the helpless SMU keeper. 
Daws added an insurance goal one minute and fifteen minutes later to put the score at 4-0. McCarthy garnered her third assist of the afternoon on the play. 
With the game apparently wrapped up, the Irish let up their guard and allowed two goals in a ten minute span. The scores broke up freshman Jen Renola's attempt for four straight shut outs and were also the first goals allowed by the women's squad at Alumni Field this season. 
Freshman Stacia Masters fin­ished off the Lady Mustangs with fifty-five seconds left on the clock. Junior Jodi Hartwig assisted. 
"Guerrero was great," said SMU head coach Allan Kirkup. "She scored three brilliant goals. There was nothing we could really do." 
Renola also stood out for the Irish, making seven saves. "She won the game for us," said junior Jill Matesic. 
"There are two parts to the game," said Petrucelli. "You can play well, or you can score well. We didn't play the game that well, but we scored well." 
"It wasn't our greatest game," added Guerrero. "We didn't come out to play, but for­tunately, we were able to score." 

Men's soccer falls to Indiana, 3-0 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
It was the tale of two halves Friday night, as the Notre Dame men's soccer team fell to third-ranked Indiana by the score of 3-0. 
The first half was played in the typical Irish style, with many battles in the air for possession and some 


very physical Bert Bader p I a y . Emotions got the better of both sides with thirteen minutes left in the first half when a fight broke out over a Hoosier foul. Punches were thrown but no players were ejected. 
Though Notre Dame was out­shot 7-4 in the first half, they kept constant pressure in Indiana's end, tallying six cor­ner kicks and several direct kicks. A strong Hoosier de­fense, however, led by junior Mike Clark and senior Blake Rodgers, was able to stifle some well-planned Irish scoring at­tacks. 
"They had us in a couple of dangerous situations in the first half, but we weathered the storm," said Indiana head coach Jerry Yeagley, who saw his Hoosiers improve their series record with Notre Dame to 13-1-1. 
The only scoring in the first half came with 11:40 elapsed off the clock. Indiana junior Todd Yeagley, an All-American last year, squeaked a direct kick past goalie Bert Bader from 25 yards out to give the Hoosiers a 1-0 halftime lead. Yeagley finished the game with a goal and two assists, totaling four points on the evening. 
Indiana entered the second half with a vengeance, proving why they hold the No. 3 rank­ing in the nation. 
"You can only go so far on emotion," continued coach Yeagley. "In the second half, when they started to get tired, our skill and experience showed through." 
The Hoosiers utilized their team speed and ball control to keep the ball away from the Irish, while they at the same time pushed the ball deep into Notre Dame's zone with an im­pressive passing scheme. 
The Hoosiers outshot the Irish 13-3 in the second half, but had several potential goals robbed by goalie Bert Bader, who recorded six saves in the second half and eight for the game. 
Indiana put the contest out of reach at the 77:03 mark, when Mike Clark headed in a Yeagley cross pass to put the score at 2­
0. Sophomore forward Harry Weiss finished off the scoring with 9:41 to play with a 25­yard blast into the upper right corner of the net. Yeagley was again credited the assist. 
Though Notre Dame's defense held junior Brian Maisonneuve, last week's Big Ten Player of the Week, to only two shots on goal late in the contest, the Hoosiers were able to rely on a well-balanced scoring attack to earn the victory. 
"We played the way they wanted to in the first half," said Yeagley. "They're better at a physical game than we are, whereas we like to play a skilled game. We played soccer in the second half." 
With the loss, the Irish dropped to 4-3 on the season, while Indiana improved its record to 6-1. 
Notre Dame's next game will be played tomorrow night at 
7:00 pm, as the Irish will host DePaul University on Alumni Field. 

the ball from a SMU midfielder just inside the Irish offensive zone, Lester raced down the left side line, beat two Lady Mustang defenders and crossed it to a wide open Guerrero, who 
Taylor chosen as Lombardi semifinalist 
Associated Press 

your team forihe first annual 3 ON
HOUSTON Notre Dame offensive line­man and captain Aaron Taylor 
3 BASKETBALL CLASSIC. The was announced as one of the 12 semifinalists for the 
tournament consisting of both male
Lombardi Award, given annu­ally to the College Football Lineman of the Year. 
and female teams, with juniors per 
The winner will be an­nounced in Houston, Thursday, 

~(juad'"t''~l· b¢gin October 3. The
Dec. 2, at the Hyatt Regency llotel-Downtown. 
.... $ 2 entrance fee will go •towards 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
awards and prizes. Sign-ups are in 
Anyone Interested in coach­
ing youth hockey for the ND youth hockey league call Debbie at 277-7519. 
All varsity athletes: If you are interested in a big broth­er/big sister organization, there will be a meeting T~sday, Sept. 28th at 8 pm in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
"(tf~ NOTRE DAME 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women interested in playing lacrosse, come to prac­tice on Tuesday, Sept. 28 at 
5:00 pm in front of Cushing. 


LONDON PROGRAM 

Call Emily Hage (X2856) or Michele McQuinlan (X2894) i you have any questions. 


INFORMATION MEETING FOR FA 94 AND SP 95: Tuesday, September 28, 1993 101 DeBartolo 6:30p.m. 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 


-~-----~--~-~----~ ~­
Monday, September 27, 1993 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
SPELUNKER 
JAY HOSLER 

I'1"1 '5/JRR'{ I THR£!h"E N&D C'MON, HANK. YoU 
Yoo, REJECTION-MAN, BLJr ARE A STuD. GIRL~ ARE J"uST INTIMIDATED
niB FACT WAT I CAN 
BY A 1Wf AS
ONL'/ GET DATES WfiEN 
~RU\1 As YOJ. 
YoU !":!0 ON VACAT/cN REINFORL:fS MY St:LF­
PE:RCEPliON OF BE:!N ~ A Bit. GEEK, LOS5R TH{IT f.IRL5 HAT6. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 "-stand~ "· Luther
1 Count-­
32 Country singer (take the roll) Tillis 

6H1p 
33 Have high goals 10 Prevarications 
35 Goldwyn and 14 Me. college Rayburn town 38 Arbitrated at 15 Ukrainian city Shea: Slang 40 LAX letters
16 ---uncertain terms 41 Facing Jimmy Key
17 Error-free 42 Mineral springs 19 Despot 43 Holmes's20 College military assistant 
gp. 
45 Bossy's milieu 21 With 2 Down. 
46 Flight part common 48 World's highest alternatives 

peak22 Spin 
50 Designates 24 Pair 
52 Lamb's mother 26 Biblical book 53 Wandered 27 Prayers 54 Barley beard 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Jlllllll~~~-=-+=~~~~~~~~~-+:,;.g H~-=+:.:.j..::::.j.:.~:.j..:::~&H.;..+:-+.~ j.:..,:.i~..;-+..;.+::.j..:~+:::+==-.f-::-B-=-+7+:~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
56 Mosel feeder 60 "... ere I saw 
61 Out of the 
question 64 NaCI 65 Nurnberg 

negative 66 "-Kick .. "· 
C. Porter 67 Ash or palm 68 Pesky insect 69lnscribe 
DOWN 

1 Black, to Pierre 2 See 21 Across 3 Kind of touch 4 Passes. as a law 




5 Roman counterpart of Helios 
6 Steinbeck nomad 7His-,the bigwig 8 Far: Comb. form 9 Supervise 
10 "The­Rebel," S. Temple film 

11 Voracious 12 Growing out 13 More tender 18 Ben and Sue of movies 23 Galley implement 25 Blue dye 26 Out of sight is 
one trail a--" 
44 Baking 55 Habit chambers 57 Promote 47 Dark or Iron felonious acts 49Quit 
58Der­

50 "There's no 
(Adenauer)

music in­
59 Stern 

...":Ruskin 51-plexus 
62 Chess pieces 54 Western 63 She, in Samoan capital Stuttgart 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON .. 


lAKE THE KEYS. 
CALL ACAB. 


--.. 
27 Musical work 28 Highway exit 29 Like some 
roads after 
blizzards 30 Skin divers' weapons 
34 Communication letters 36 West and Murray 
37 R.b.i. or e.r.a. 
39 Appraisal 41 Again 43 "... long, long 


1• 
j 

~-:{ ~ ':: . , j
---~~---~---~-----'---------'-'---'1 
----~~-----· --~-­








SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, September 27, 1993 
Head and shoulders above the 'Pack 

Women's soccer 
hammers No. 6 

N.C. State, 3-0 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY Assistant Sports Editor 

After putting home the game-clinching goal against North Carolina State, Notre Dame fresh­man Cindy Daws turned and triumphantly punched the cool Friday night air. 
Her two-goal performance led the third ranked Irish women's soccer team (8-0) past the sixth­r;~nked Wolfpack, 3-0. 
Sophomore attacker Rosella Guerrero topped Daws performance in yesterday's match up with Southern Methodist University by scoring a hat trick in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over the Lady Mustangs. 
"We're starting to prove that we're as good as any team in the country," said Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"Notre Dame played very spirited," noted N. C. 
State head coach Larry Gross. "They deserved to 
win." 

"It was all intensity," said Daws. "We're not 
stopping at anything. We're doing whatever it 
takes." 

Daws first goal came mid-way through the first half on a 23-yard penalty kick to the top left cor­ner of the goal which Wolfpack keeper Michelle Bertocchi had no chance of stopping. 
The score remained 1-0 through the half, even though the Irish outshot their foe 12-4. The squad was hoping to avoid another result like last Sunday's contest with William & Mary. Although Notre Dame dominated the Tribe in all aspects of the game, the final score was only 1-0. 
Daws, however, made sure that would not hap­pen when she followed up on the rebound of her own header and booted it off a bounce past the sprawling N. C. State keeper. The unassisted goal all but locked up the win for the Irish. 
Tri-eaptain Alison Lester gave Notre Dame an insurance goal with 10:42 left in the game when she tipped a Tiffany Thompson corner kick just inside the far right post. 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

Notre Dame midfielder Regan Coyne heads the ball during the first half of Friday's win over N.C. State. 
FOOTBALL 1993 

Irish stumble past Boilermakers 
17-0 

.­
• 
Notre Dame's 

See Sports Extra
Willie Clark 


see SOCCER I page 14 



Volleyball upsets No. 3 Nebraska 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sporrs Writer 
For the Notre Dame volleyball team, this weekend's Golden Dome Invitational could be summed up by the on-court cele­brations following each match. 
On Friday night, Santa Clara mobb0d to the center, cheering their biggest upset of the young season after having knocked off the 14th-ranked Irish 14-16, 8­15, 15-13, 16-14, 15-13. 
On Saturday night, however, the scene was a total reversal, as the Irish exploded following the biggest upset in its history, defeating the No. 3 team in the land, Nebraska, 15-8, 15-7, 3-15, 15-10. 
"Beating Nebraska was the biggest win of the season, my career, and probably our history," commented senior eo-captain Janelle Karlan. "It really boosted our confidence, and like I said before, showed we can play with anyone in the country." 
"After Friday night's match, I told the team that the mark of a great team is one that can suffer a loss and rebound the next day," stated Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "They showed a tremen­dous amount of character in beat­ing Nebraska." 
Playing with a level of intensity that had not been previously exhibited, the Irish rallied from a 3-7 deficit in game 1, relying on the jump serving of junior Nicole Coates, hitting of tournament MVP Christy Peters, and net play of inspired senior Molly Stark to stun the Huskers. 
Nebraska seemed surprised by the aggressiveness of the Irish attack, becoming rattled and committing numerous unforced errors and technical violations which disrupted the team's rhythm. 
"Whenever you have something to prove, you have to play with much more intensity," explained Karlan. "We came out with noth­ing to lose in that match." 
In the second game. Peters and Stark took control, answering every Husker rally with definitive kills. Peters, whose dominance from the outside continued for the second weekend in a row, notched 19 kills over the course of the match. hitting both cross­court and down the line for a .208 percentage. 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 12 






