
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 101 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Panel: Sexual harassment policy lacking 
By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
Notre Dame's policy for sex­ual harassment is inadequate, according to Marilyn Van Ber­gen, a project coordinator at the Oflice of University Comput­ing. 
"There is a lack of general training that to date has been for.used on the legal aspects rather than a practical imple­mentation." Van Bergen said in a panel discussion Thursday. 
The current definition of sex­ual harassment in the Notre Dame manager's guidebook is "unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature." The policy "on its face does not meet minimal requirements established by statutory law on the subject and U.S. Supreme Court rulings," said Van Bergen. 
If a student or faculty mem­ber wishes to proceed with a sexual harassment charge, there is no current information or actual procedural implemen­tation. Van Bergen said. 
Elizabeth Pawlicki, Director of Residence Life, said this is a problematic situation, and the cases she reviews constitute both verbal and physical abuse. "There has been an increase of complaints in the graduate school department. Since Au­gust. there have already been five cases of undergraduate sexual harassment cases and three cases of graduate com­plaints," she said. 
Sexual harassment is often 
defined as unwelcome· ad­vances, whether verbal or physical. The problem, accord­ing to Van Bergen, is the ambi­guity of this definition and its subjective standard. 
If claimants wish to be vocal in their grievances, this incident triggers several things. According to Pawlicki there is the "intimidation factor of hav­ing a student report to the Vice­President of Student Affairs, (Professor Patty O'Hara), and 

Clinton orders Bosnian relief drop; America acts alone 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton ordered the Pen­tagon to mount an airdrop of relief supplies into war-frac­tured Bosnia on Thursday, say­ing it would serve important "humanitarian purposes" but acknowledging it would fall short of alleviating the region's misery. 
Officials said the flights would begin soon -possibly as early as Sunday -using U.S. cargo planes based in Germany. They will be flying at night -at some 1~.000 feet to lessen any risk of anti-aircraft fire. 
"The war that has raged in Bosnia-Herzegovina over the past year has taken a stagger­ing toll: Thousands have been killed or imprisoned, thousands more are at risk due to hunger and exposure, and over two million people have been forced from their homes," Clinton said in a statement issued at the White House. 
He said that regular overland deliveries "are the best means to ensure that the long-term needs of the Bosnian population are met," but he maintained the airdrops will provide an important supplement. 
The president said the need for food and medicine was greatest in Eastern Bosnia and 
Sophomore Parents Weekend, Saint Mary's College Schedule of Events 
Friday 3 to 6 p.m. Registration. Haggar College Center. 7 p.m. Nursing Capping Ceremony. Regina Chapel. 7 to 11 p.m. Foot Stompin' Friday. Haggar College Center. 8 p.m. "Oklahoma." O'LaughHn Auditorium. 8 p.m. to midnight Dalloway's Coffeehouse. 
Saturday 9 to 11 a.m. Late Registration. Haggar College Center. 10 a.m.Dedication of The Church of loretto. 10 a.m. to noon Academic Open House. Le Mans lobby. 
1:30 p.m. Matinee "My Girl." Room 105 SCience Hall. 
2 p.m. Saint Mary's Basketball vs. Wheaton College. Angela Athletic Facility 
4:30 p.m. Mass. Church· of Loretto. 6 p.m. Social Hour. Century Center. 7 p.m. Dinner. Century Center. 9 p.m. Dance. Century Center. 
faculty members must appear before their provost." 
Many professors at the dis­cussion said there are differen­tial standards dealing with sex­ual harassment. Some believe that meetings dealing with sex­ual harassment should be mandatory. Many were angry that they were told to attend a mandatory meeting for the new phone system while the sexual harassment meetings were voluntary. 
The general consensus of the group was that Notre Dame needs a better counseling pro­gram to manage sexual ha­rassment complaints of all types. 
The problem is not a specific incident, but the created atmo­sphere, according to the panel members. Some of the com­ments and actions between men and women do not belong in a 
see PANEL I page 4 
Cartwright: 


carried out strictly for humani­tarian purposes; no combat air­craft will be used in this opera­tion," Clinton said, indicating no fighter escorts would ac­company the unarmed trans­port aircraft. 
Clinton's statement made no mention of any other countries joining in the mission, which he said would be coordinated with existing United Nations relief efforts. 
But he said later in answer to a question, "We've had several volunteers." He did not elabo­rate. 
Asked why the mission was worth undertaking, he said that in addition to the humanitarian aspect, "we think if we do it we will be able to create a some­what better climate for negotia­tions" in the former Yugoslavia. 
A senior Pentagon official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the supply-drop was designed to be "of short duration." But bad weather or problems with accuracy of the drops could add to the time, he said. 
The aircraft used would be slow-flying C-130 "Hercules" transports. To protect the pilots, the planes are supposed to fly at high altitudes. 
SMC holds Sophomore Parents Weekend 
By BETH REGAN News Writer 
Today, parents coming from across the country will be pouring onto the Saint Mary's Campus for the annual Sopho­more Parents Weekend. 
This weekend is the first op­portunity for many parents to visit their daughters at Saint Mary's since their freshmen Orientation Weekend. 
''I'm looking forward to Sophomore Parents Weekend because my parents will finally be able to see me in my own territory," said Elizabeth Fen­nell, a Le Mans Hall resident originally from Louisville, Ky. 
Chairperson Elizabeth Broghammer, also living in Le Mans, said she is glad to see the project finally coming together. The committee has been meeting since early September formulating ideas and organizing the weekend. Traditions such as the Dinner Dance and the Academic Open House will again be part of the weekend, but the panel of Alumna speakers has been eliminated in order to free Sat­urday afternoon for families to spend time together. 
Sophomores and their par­ents can look forward to the musical "Oklahoma" and spending time in Dalloway's Coffee House after the play. 
"I am excited about seeing 'Oklahoma,"' said Kathy Maruna, a Holy Cross resident from Dayton, Ohio. "Our par­ents don't realize the cultural opportunities and talent offered at Saint Mary's." 
The dedication of the Church of the Loretto is also a scheduled activity for sopho­mores and their parents. 
Many students have said they are most looking forward to the Dinner Dance on Saturday evening at the Century Center and the Academic Open House on Saturday afternoon. 
The weekend will be an op­portunity for parents to finally meet their daughters' friends and to become acquainted with other Saint Mary's families. 
"I'm excited for Sophomore Parents Weekend because it will be the first time they've seen me in an actual college scene, doing real college stuff," said Holy Cross resident Cyndi Herman from Santa Barbara, California. 
"I can't wait for my parents to meet all my friends," said chairperson Broghammer from 
see SMC I page 4 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 
My time with The Observer: A cynic's career in review 
Here are a few things won't miss about working at this place: 
•Computers, printers, fax machines anything electronic that decides that it's not 

getting enough p 1p
attention and breaks au earson down. Associate News Editor
• 
Picking up the telephone and listening -------­to people who, through no fault of my own, decide to tell me what's wrong with the world. 

• 
Waking up early on Sundays (bad enough, even if I stayed sober the night before) and getting up to the office in time to find out that the doors are still locked. 

• 
Being blamed for everyone's columns and 


Je~tt~sp~g~~i~J~ :~~0~~! tl ~~S n~tO~~it~ ays to 
screw up transfers then there are numbers in the direetory. 
• 
Working for hours on one phrase or sentence, only to find it has been edited OQt. 

• 
Being told that a reporter can't eover an event 2 hours before it is supposed to start. 

• 
Hunning for the phone, only to find out that it is somebody who thinks its my fault that I ean't sell them an advertisement. 

• 
Losing a lifetime supply of disposable pens. 

• 
Missing dinner because a meeting runs long, or a story takes a long time to write, or a reporter doesn't show up when he says he will. 

• 
Being paid a wage that is approximately $1 an hour. 

• 
Chairs that deeide the most comfortable position for you is to lean you backwards at a 60-degree angle. 

• 
Walking home from LaFortune in the middle of the night, especially when it's snowing. 

• 
People who refuse to answer any questions at all and then tell me to "Have a nice day." 


IIHre are a few things I will miss about working at this place: 
• 
Hour-long discussions on which member o the stan· is furthest from actually having a life. 

• 
Meeting more people in four years than I had hoped to meet in eight. 

• 
Hearing from people at other schools about how their papers are weekly (or monthly) and are not even dose to the quality of this rag. 

• 
Being able to vent all kinds of frustrations in front of 13,000 people, and not having to pay for it. 

• 
Free cofff~e and doughnuts in the morning. 

• 
The eompanionship of Shirley, our offiee manager, resident mother, oldies expert and all­around expert. 

• 
Having aecess to all sorts of goofy photos for every occasion under the sun, ranging from dartboard targets to valentines. 

• 
The unmistakable feeling of euphoria one feels when one sees the fruits of hard work and frustration published on the front page. 

• 
Being stopped in the middle of a party and being informed that I'm Paul Pearson. 

• 
Working with some of the best people a eynie could ask for. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Sports Becky Barnes News 
Brian Kubicki Katie Murphy 
Viewpoint 
Guy Loranger Production Kathy Fong 
Business Whitney Sheets 
Susan Marx 
Lab Tech John Bingham 
Accent Kenya Johnson 
Graphics Brenden Regan
Systems Harry Zembillas 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
Friday, February 26, 1993 
.:' ·:: .· ·.·· .· 

(. 
~~ j 
. ·: 
PERATURES 

H  l  
36  23  
46  35  
70  50  
79  61  
15  02  
19  05  
54  49  
23  02  
17  09  
68  43  
50  39  
61  49  
55  30  
14  00  
27  10  
FRONTS:  36  27  
• •COLD  •• WARM  •• •STATIONARY  ·: Philadelphia .:: Rome : i Seattle  26 39 28 48 43  17 36 15 25 28  
Pressure  {  South Bend  15  02  
, ,  H  L  ~'~'4  &'SJ  [!}]  0  f,.",.i  b--)  ~ ~  u  Tokyo  D.C.  50 32  37 18  

CLOUDY . ·:: . ·:

[::~·===H=~G=·=Hi::;:,=~O:W:;:;z.,3sH:;..O:;,WE==~~=S===··RA==IN=====T~==~=0=:·R=·M=S=:::;:L=~=~=~=/~iS:i;:=S~NO=W=··;;.. =·=i'~=~==:i;.:i;.~=:U=:N==N=·y=·=:::::::::;=::=:::::::~l::::::::::::::;:::::;::::;::z::::::;;;:::::;;;JI 
.. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Right-wing Hindus plan to rally 
• NEW DELHI, India-Hundreds of thousands of riot police sealed off much of the capital on Wednesday to keep a right-wing Hindu party from holding a rally in defiance of the tottering government. Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao banned Thursday's rally, fearing it would reignite Hindu-Muslim violence that left nearly 2,000 dead after Hindu nationalists demolished a mosque in December. But militant Hindus said they would ignore the ban, setting the stage for the biggest eonfrontation yet between the government and the powerful right-wing opposition. The government said Wednesday that 1,940 people had been killed in the worst Hindu-Muslim violence in 46 years of independence, far more than the media had been estimating. 
NATION 
Hillary Clinton's task force is sued 
• WASHINGTON -Three groups on Wednesday sued Hillary Rodham Clinton and the President's Task Force on National Health Care Reform that she chairs to force the panel's meetings open. The suit, filed in U.S. District Court, contends that because Mrs. Clinton is neither a public official nor a federal employee, the task force is forbidden by law from closing its meetings and 

OF INTEREST 
• 
SADD will hold an important organizational meeting today at 5 p.m. in the Office of Alcohol and Drug Educa­tion in the Mezzanine Level of LaFortune. We will discuss upcoming activities and hold elections for next year's officers. 

• 
Dedication of the Church of Loretto will be held this Saturday. A procession from Augusta Chapel to the Church will begin at 9:45 a.m., and the dedication in the church will follow at 10 a.m. 

• 
Spanish Mass will be held Sunday at 11:30 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips Hall chapel. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 25 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 267,831,380 +.88 to 243.38 S&P COMPOSITE +1.47 to 442.34 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +8.64 to 3,365.14

UNCHANGED 593 

GOLD + $.20 to $330.60 oz. 
SILVER + $0.021 to $3.533 oz. 

those of working groups within it to the press and public. The Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, the American Council for Health Care Reform and the National Legal Policy Center asked for a temporary restraining order direeting that any meetings be open. The suit claims the task force falls under the Federal Advisory Committee Aet, passed by Congress in the 1970s. Under the law, any federal advisory committee that renders advice to Congress or the president that is not wholly composed o public officials must open their meetings to the public. 
NBC admits false footage again 
• 
For the second time in two weeks, NBC News has publiely apologized for including inaccurate footage in a broadeast report. A Jan. 4 "NBC Nightly News" report on allegations that overeutting in Idaho's Clearwater National Forest was endangering fish was inadvertantly accompanied by videotape of dead fish from another forest, anchor Tom Brokaw said during Wednesday's "NBC Nightly News" broadcast. The report also contained footage of fish that weren't really dead but had been stunned for testing purposes. Brokaw said. "We regret the inappropriate video to illustrate what was otherwise an accurate report," Brokaw said. On Feb. 9, the network apologized for rigging a General Motors piekup truck with ineendiary devices for a "Dateline NBC" report on the alleged dangers of the vehicle's gas tanks. 

• 
Stations of the Cross will be held Fridays during Lent at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Saered Hearl. Sunday Vespers will be held each Sunday during Lent at 


7:15 p.m. in the Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
• The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development will have an open-house meeting at 8 p.m. Sunday in the Blue Room of the North Dining Hall. Come find out about our international internship program, citizens' democracy corps, forum and roundtable speakers, and more. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1815: Napoleon Bonaparte escaped from the Island of Elba to begin his second conquest of France. 

• 
In 1951: The 22nd Amendment to the Constitution was ratified, limiting a president to two terms in office. 

• 
In 1952: Prime Minister Winston Churchill announced that Britain had developed an atomic bomb. 

• 
In 1984: Jesse Jackson acknowledged in Concord, N.H., using the word "Hymie" to refer to Jews during a private conversation, saying it was "insensitive and wrong." 

• 
In 1986: Robert Penn Warren was named the first "poet laureate" of the United States. 




~ --­
Friday, February 26, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Polish historians finish book of American history 
By LAURA FERGUSON Krzystof Michalek, co-editor News Writer and chief contributor to this project, who spoke in a lecture 
A team of 21 historians, at Saint Mary's College last mostly from Poland's Warsaw night. University, recently published a The lecture, sponsored in part complete encyclopedia of Amer­by the department of history ican history, according to and the History Club, was 
Notre Dame C 
Reserved seats: $7 
· 8:t0 p.m. tO p.m. to p.m. ·tO p.m. tO p.m. 
!able Wednesday, -___ ble at the LaFortune 
--call: 631-8128. 

Main & Jefferson 
~ 
Mon-Th II a.m. • II p.m. Fri-Sat !!a.m.· II p.m. ._, F ch-A F ·t Own-_~B . Sun 4 p.m.• 9 p.m
,,.ota ran 1se• am1 y cu usmess 
257, 1100 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York 'Pizza 
alzones• Hot and Cold Subs•Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
entitled "Breaking into the Free main sections; the revolutionary Market for Book Publishing in war through the Civil War, the New Poland" and traced the Civil War through World War II, production of this 1,800 entry and the post World War II era, encyclopedia from its first in­according to Michalek. spiration though publication, "We had a major problem despite the book's numerous with contradicting information obstacles. from our sources in our re­
search but we worked through 
"This volume is a synthesis of it. We stressed quality of work American history in Polish and and responsibility throughout it is the first reference work the entire project. We even geared toward the general pub­went so far as to initial each lic published in Poland since entry by author so that the World War II," said Michalek. writer of each entry was ac­
knowledged with due credit and 
The work includes American they also had to take sole military history, political his­responsibility for what was in , tory, holidays and much more. the text of their entries," said 
"It also features numerous Michalek maps and charts, including a photograph of President Bill "During a series of three Clinton and Vice President AI proof readings each entry was Gore, being one of the first checked a total of six times for books published to include accuracy." these men as the newest presi­dential administration," he said. "Publication also presented 
Good planning was essential several obstacles. We went to to the publication of this ency­15 publishers before we came clopedia. To do this the team to the private publishing com­had to divide the history into 3 pany that took on our project. 
Turtle Creek A 
Townhouses 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
Furnished Studios Pool & Volleyball Laundry Facility 
Now Acceptingi'JD Shuttle Service 
Applications
City Bus Line 2/10 of a mile from campus 

Affordable Student Housing 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSION FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE 
VISUAL CARRIEMAY O'SHAU ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE S A CASH AWARD OF $300. BE OBTAINED IN ROOM GHNESSY.  PRIZE RULES 132  
ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY  

4:00PM ON WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14 







LENTEN SPECIAL 
Now through Easter Sunday 
r-------, 
I 1..-14" Large I
Delivering the Perfect Pizza! 
: Cheese Pizza: I $5oo ' I
I -+Tax I 
.Offer expires 4/11/93 ..I



271~1177 
Addi<ional Toppinll' .95¢ each 

-.J 
1 Valid Wi!h Any O!hc. Coopon 

Free Delivery 
~ Fast • Hot • Perfect 
Because of a new treaty be­tween the United States and Poland, we required permission for the use of 600 pictures. This cost us additional money and time but with some help we got through that problem as well." 
The recipe for success, in­cluding the success of this pro­ject, can be answered through American history, according to Michalek. It requires good leaders, vision, the means to make the vision real, hard work and the willingness to sacrifice. 
"I hope that though this book we can help to dispel the stereotypes of Americans in Poland. These stereotypes should be avoided in each na­tion. All we want is for the people to better understand history," said Michalek. 
Michalek is a professor of American history at Poland's Warsaw University and is cur­rently teaching at Indiana Uni­versity in Bloomington. 

~--~----------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 
SECURITY BEAT 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, Feb. 22 
8:45 a.m. Security transported an Injured University employee from the Niewland Science Building to the Stu· dent Health Center. 
9:55 a.m. Security transported an In­Jured California resident from the Hammes Bookstore to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
11 :40 a.m. Security located a stolen parking decal In the A19 parking lot. 
4:59 p.m. Security was dispatched to the He&burgh Ubrary with regards to a suspicious person. The South Bend resident was given a tresspass notice and escorted off campus. 
7:30 p.m. Three Cavanaugh Hall residents reported the theft ot propsrty from their unlocked dorm room. 
9:30 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re· ported the thefl of his jacket outside the weight room of the Rockne Memorial. •• A handrail was reported stolen from the Regina north elevator In Regina Hall. •• A St. Mary's employee slipped and fell In front of Carroll Auditorium. She was taken to St. Joaeph Medical Cemter for treatment of a fractured lefl shoulder. 
TUESDAY, Feb. 23 
1:16 a.m. Security responded to a case of vandalism to University property at the JACC. 
4:09 a.m. Four Alumni Hall residents were questioned with regards to sus­picious activity outside Dillon Hall. 
8:38 a.m. Security transported an Injured Farley Hall resident to the Memorial Hospital Emergency room. 
11 :30 a.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported a case of possible vandalism to his property. 
1:52 p.m. Security transported an Injured Carroll Hall resident from Lyons Hall to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
2:47 p.m. Security transported an Injured Morrissey Hall resident to the Student Health Center. 
5:16 p.m. Security transported an Injured Cavanaugh Hall resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
6:50 p.m. Three Notre Dame students were cited for violation of University rules and regulations lor possession of alcoholic beverages at the JACC. 
WEDNESDAY,Feb.24 
4:47 a.m. An off-campus Notre Dame student was arrested for driving while intoxicated afler trying to enter the East Gate from the wrong direction, 
9:111 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his books from one of the study lounges In the dorm. 
11:10 a.m. Security responded to a minor accident on Douglas Road. No lnjurie& were reported. 
4:07 p.m. Security along with Notre Dame Fire responded to a vehicle on tire on the main drlve of Holy Cross Junior College. No Injuries were re­ported. 
5:25 p.m. Security responded to a minor accident in the B03 parking lot on campus. No lnjuri86 were reported. 
THURSDAY, Feb. 25 
12:40 a.m. Security responded to a case of vandalism to the phonee In the pit area of the Hellburgh Library. 
2:15 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident was questioned about an attempted theft of aroad sign on Juniper Road. 
2:17 a.m. Security responded to some suspicious activity at Washington Hall. 
12:08 p.m. Security responded to a auspicious person at the Notre Dame Law School. A Niles, Michigan r86i<klnt was issued a trespass notice and escorted off campus. 
12:15 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his vehicle's parking decal while the vehicle waa parked In the 803 parking lot. 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
collegiate atmosphere, said many professors. 
"Sexual harassment is a global issue and it needs to be addressed to the public sphere in a major way," said Van Ber­gen. Undergraduate males are less inclined than undergradu­ate women to believe anything is wrong, she continued. 
"Men need to deal with women as colleagues," she concluded. 
U.N. 
continued from page 1 
II," he said. "We feel we should 
be doing something." 
But, he added, some question the appropriateness of an airlift led by the United States, and a U.N.-led effort would be more effective. 
In the former Soviet Union, with nuclear weapons now in the hands of four distinct pow­ers rather than one, the threat of nuclear war may have in­creased, Cortwright claimed. The United Nations could play a role in ensuring that there is no proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
An international intelligence agency would serve the global community well, Cortwright said. Inspectors could be sent on fact-finding missions to find out what kind of problems re­gions faced before conflicts erupted. And nuclear non-pro­liferation agreements would be more binding. 
"Because one of the major concerns is how you know if anybody's cheating," Cortwright explained. 
An improved United Nations would also pay more strict at­tention to international law, Cortwright said. Unfortunately, he said, the "law of force" has replaced the "force of law" all too often in international dis­putes. 
Countries should honor the decisions of the International 
The Observer 

Court of Justice consistently, 
rather than claim a right to na­
tional sovereignty when this is 
more convenient, he said. An 
international criminal court 
should try those accused of war 
crimes and human rights vio­
lations. 
The United Nations should 
have "peace-making" capabili­
ties, Cortwright said, and en­
gage in "preventative diplo­
macy," as it is attempting to do 
now in the Mideast. In the past, 
the international community 
has been somewhat lax in this 
respect, he said. 
"It should have been no sur­
prise that Iraq and Kuwait were 
two countries that were going 
to go to war," he commented. 
A right to "peace-enforce­ment" would mean the U.N. could step into conflicts that are developing into war, Cortwright said. The organization should work toward minimizing any disagreement's level of violence. 
It was on the right track at the beginning of the Persian Gulf crisis when countries joined to impose economic sanctions on Iraq, Cortwright said. But too soon the U.S. abandoned this tactic in favor of violence. A further mistake was President George Bush's firm refusal to attempt diplomacy, he added. 
Cortwright admitted that force might be used as a last resort. In Yugoslavia, for ex­ample, "to stand by and watch this carnage is not a moral po­sition." 
When military intervention is called for it should be organized by the entire U.N., he 
of the feelings of the sopho­mores. ''I'm excited for
SMC 
Sophomore Parents Weekend because it gives all of us an op­
continued from page 1 
portunity to better acquaint ourClear Lake, Iowa. 
parents and show them a goodJen Stuck summed up many 
time." 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Applicants should have Apple Macintosh and computer networking experience. Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Patrick Barth by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 3. Contact Patrick at 1-7471 for more information. 
Friday, February 26, 1993 
pean countries and third-world countries. he said. The veto, ideally, should be eliminated. 
Finally, Cortwright said there must be more firm commitment to financing the United Nations. The United States is a prime offender when it comes to debt to the U.N. We are $400 million behind in payments. The money should come from defense budgets, according to Cortwright. 


s  H  0  w  
5  A  T  U  R  D  A  y  
F  EBRUAR  y  2  7  

7 A  3 T  0 T  A H  N E  D 5  9 N  
W 0 N 0 U  T R  B E L I I I I I  

4 5 T E 
E V E 
I 5 
Northwestern University Summer Session '93 Think or swim. 
Our summer schedule includes one-, two-, three-, four-, six-, seven-, eight-, and nine-week classes. Call 1-800-FINDS NU (in Illinois, call 7081491-41 14) or mail this coupon. 
I'm thinking. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '93 catalog with financial aid and registration infonnation (available in March). Please send the catalog to Cl my home Cl my school. Summer Session '93, 2003 Sheridan Road Evanston. Illinois 60208-2650 
Name 
School Address 
City State Zip 
Home Address 
City State Zip 2 
Nonhwe>~em Is an equal opponunlly eduauor and employer. 
said. 

The international organiza­tion should also address coun­tries' underlying environmen­tal, human rights and poverty problems, he said, "Clearly en­vironmental problems are not amenable to solutions by any one country. These are global problems." 
The Security Council mem­bership should be increased to include both additional Euro­

ASupplement to The Observer 

"Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." -Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano, Bengal Bouts founder 
page 2 A Supplement to The Observer Friday, February 26, 1993 
1993

---8--­
Bengal Bouts 


Lower weight classes feature cream of Bengal's crop 
Eric Garcia v. Chris Irwin 
The 130-pound division is a matchup of youth. inexperience and Stanford Hall residents. Sophomore Eric Garcia. the top seed in the 
division. faces off against freshman Chris Irwin, the second seed in the lightest weight class. 
Garcia advanced to the finals with a convincing win over Jason Kelly. Irwin had a tougher time, slugging for

.... three rounds with Bob Payne5 before earning the unanimous decision. 
The matchup pins two inexperienced fighters, but also a pair which under­stand what they need to do to win. 
"I just need to keep from getting hit and get in more punches," said Garcia. "I just need to stick with what I know." 
"I need to work harder on my de­fense than I did in the previous light," said Irwin. "lie is pretty quick and fa­von~d to win, but I think we are evenly matched." 
Both fighters downplay their lack of experience as a determining factor. "We are both young so it really is even for both of us," said Garcia. 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: All Irwin. The freshman will get a jacket and the be the pride of Stanford Hall. 
KELLY'S PICK: Irwin won the bloodiest bout of the Benglas. He won't have any trouble with the much lighter Garcia. 
ii!1! !11 i!1 :J ¥t 

Eric Garcia Chris Irwin 
20  Age  19  
5'8  Height  5'9  
128  Weight  138  
1st yr  Experience  1st yr  
Stanford  Dorm  Stanford  

Joe Carrigan 
v. 
Steve Clar 
Steve Clar has been a crowd favorite since his opening win over O'Shaugnessy Williams. His friends have come out in swarms. 
lie will need that support to overcome former champion Joe Carrigan. Carrigan won in 1991 but had to sit 
out last year after a nose injury days before the start of the Bouts 
prevented him from defending 
fighters traveled a easy round to the finals, both understand that this 
t will be a ditncult one. 
Carrigan. "The winner will beIbSthe one who keeps his form, and whose endurance stays up." 
"I need to stay calm, use my speed, get inside and throw combinations," commented Clar. "Both of us are in really good shape and I think that we will both be alright despite the additional time. 

said Hall. "My dad will be in my corner and my Ma and sisters will be yelling, so I have all the support anyone could ask for." 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: Hall will finally get the title he has coveted since the minute he stepped into the ring three years ago. 
KELLY'S PICK: It's all Hall. Don't blink. 
Brian Antonson 
v. 
Tim Norton 
This matchup places the experienced Brian Antonson, versus one of two freshmen in the finals, Tim Norton. 
Antonson TKO'd Len Foley in the semifinals displaying his power and quick hands. Norton suprised the division by landing in the finals in his 
rst year, overcoming the 
style of Jamie Boyd in 
semifinals. 
"For me to win I have to be 
lucky," said Norton. "He 
fighter and is really 
I hope that I can land .......I~_','! jab and also deliver a few
lb 

rights." 
S "Tim is a pretty solid fighter and he has a strong jab,H said Antonson. "I need to try and wait till he opens up and follow it up with a right." 
Added pressure will be placed on Norton as no freshman boxer has won a title since Gerber did two years ago. 
Jeff Gerber v. Pat Owens 
This matchup features two boxers in reach of the other two fighters I faced, their third year of fighting. But that is so I will have to use my quickness and where the similarities stop. Gerber has outbox him." reigned as champion for the past two "There is a lot of presssure, because years while Owens 
is I expect me to repeat," said the first ever title. Dillon Hall junior. "My dad 
Some insiders Gerber the best boxer per pound" in the bouts, a which Owens understands. "He is a natural. He has a reach advantage on me. He is very quick, and one of the best fighters in the bouts," said Owens. "All I can do is try and get inside and keep moving." 
"He is the best boxer I have faced by far," said Gerber. "He doesn't have the 
Lou Hall v. Kevin Mewborn 
Both fighters are veterans of the match." Bouts, but Lou Hall is a veteran of the Aiding Hall will be the incentive that finals whereas Kevin Mewborn is more comes from consecutive losses in the experienced in early exits. finals over the past two years. His 
Hall has lived up to th family, as always will be in hype this year, winni lbsfull ~orce, an~ his father lends 
convincingly in the t advtce as hts corner man. previous rounds. Mewborn ''I'm confident and we will pulled an upset over Fred ---• have to see what happens," 
Sharkey in the semifinals and will be looking to pull another against the heavily favored Hall. 
"He has a great jab and you know he is a good boxer because he made it to the finals," said Hall. "We are both boxers so you will not see a slugfest. 
"All I can do is try and keep my form," said a rather somber Mewborn. "I just have to try and give him the best 
.~.,s 
Joe Carrigan 
21 Age 5'9 
::H~tgff 155 Weight 
3rd yr Experience 
Grace ·oorm 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: Carrigan the expierence and the confidence. He will win unanimously. 
KELLY'S PICK: Carrigan won a tough one in the quarterfinals. Clar hasn't been tested. Carrigan's experience will pay off tonight. 
S
and sister booked a flight the minute I told them I won in 
the semifianls, it adds pressure but gives a little more insentive." 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: Gerber, Gerber, and did I mention, Gerber. 
KELLY'S PICK: Gerber knocked out Chris Johnson with one punch in the third round. It won't take that long tonight. 
Colin Hanley 
v. 
Dan Schmidt 

Dan Schmidt survived the long reaches of Matt Carbone and Mike Ahern to advance to te finals, and he faces yet another spidery oponent in Colin Hanley. 
Hanley, a participant in 
cruised into the finals rinding a quick jab and veteran savy. It is those two which may give Hanley th edge. 
"He is another one of guys with a long reach," saidlbS Schmidt. "I need to be patient, try not to be anxious, and 
fight my fight.H Hanley will try to exploit his reach advantage. 
"I need to utilize my jab and my reach,H said Hanley. "He's going to be the aggressor, and I'll have to keep him away." 
Schmidt is concerned about the additional 30 seconds added to each round. 
He admitted being tired during his quarterfinal bout, feels that the extra time will be a large factor in determining the winner. "It is going to play a large role," he said. "It ends up adding an additional round. 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: Schmidt will pull the upset due to his aggresive style. Plus he has one of the Bout's best nicknames. 
KELLY'S PICK: Hanley. His long reach will give Schmidt problems. 
Colin Hanley Dan Schmidt 
22  Age  20  
5'10  Height  5'8  
140  Weight  144  
3rd yr  Experience  2nd yr  
Off.-campus Dorm  Dillon  

Tim Norton  
21  Age  18  
5'10.  Height  5'10  
iThll!,sa·· !IF'  Weight  155  
w2ndyr  Experience  1st yr  
Grace  Dorm  Dillon  

DOHRMANN'S PICK: 1;his could prove to be one of the more eompetitve fights, as Norton has showed he likes to mix it up. But Antonson has to much experience. 
KELLY'S PICK: Antonson's experience will wear down the freshman. 

Friday, February 26, 1993 A Supplement to The Observer page 3 

t 

1993 Bengal Bouts 

Higher weight divisions to showcase heavy hitters 

Jeff Goddard 
v. 
Kevin Mullaney 
Goddard lost in the finals a year ago but has shown in the early going that he won't fall again. Mullany also has two years under his Bengal belt but does not possess the skills of Goddard. 
The fighters have been on a collision course since the pairings were announced. Mullaney hit some trouble 
in a sloppy quarterfinal bout with Steve Soderline 
"I need to move, I don't want to stand and throw punches," said Goddard. "It is tough with the rounds being longer, so you need to pace yourself. 
"Kevin is a good fighter. He moves around well and has aIbsstrong defense." The complementing style of Goddard was similar to the remarks of Mullaney. 
"I need to stay clam and under control, "said Mullany. "Jeff has a quick jab and he is a good fighter. If I establish a good defense and control the ring, I think I have a chance." 
Kevin O'Rourke v. Brendan Nelligan 
The heavier weigh classes usually mean bigger punches but that does not hold true in this matchup. Both boxers are just that, boxers, and don't rely on their size to supply fight­ending punches. 
O'Hourke cruised through the first 
two rounds while Nelligan nearly 
stumbled in the semis. 
But friendship will add 
some exicitement to this 
bout. 
The two fighters are friends 
and teammates on the rugby 

........ team. but their friendship 
has done little to give
lb 
5 evidence of who has the 
edge. 
"lie has a really good right and moves well," said O'Hourke. "I feel that I am in pretty good shape and that could help. but he is a first year fighter so you really aren't sure what you are going to face." 
"Kevin is a lot more of a refined boxer than I am," said Nelligan, "but I have the reach on him. so I am just going to try and keep him off." 
The two fighters sparred early in the year but neither felt they had a grasp of their oppenent's weaknesses. 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: O'Rourke will 
ruin this friendship with a unanimous 
win. 
KELLY'S PICK: There are few strikes against O'Rourke who is solid all around. 
20  Age  
6'  
166  
2nd yr  
Flanner  Dorm +.·.·.· 1MNn·······  

DOHRMANN'S PICK: Goddard will put his runner-up jacket in the closet for good. 
KELLY'S PICK: His nickname is right. Mullaney "better pray to" Goddard. But that probably wouldn't help. 
Eric Poley v. Harry Zembillas 
Poley is a veteran of the Bouts and has a big edge over the less experienced Zembillas. In his three years fighting, Poley has taken part in some big bouts but a title has eluded him. 
Poley had no trouble in his semifinal bout with Matt Mulderrig. 
Zembillas looked solid in a semifinal win over Mik Faccenda but not in the 
of Poley. He stalked his .-...~. has the experience and opponent around the ring, but looked to should finally get his jacket. Zembillas only fight in spurts, lacking consistency. is fun to watch, but not a Bengal 
"We both are punchers, but he is a champion. little stronger," said Poley. "I must rely KELLY'S PICK: Poley will rain on "the on my jab to keep him off and also keep Hurricane's" parade. 
Matt Carr v. Huntley Bakich 

As usual, the heavyweight fight supplies the most hype. 
Carr, last year's champion, has all the skills to repeat, but there is something intriguing about Bakich, considered one of the finest athletes on the football team. 
"I have to keep moving and outbox him," said Carr. "I can't get into a brawl. I have 
to stay in control." 
loi..WI,I,j-..l~ to my motto. Go with the best Bakich is a southpaw which boxer. scares Carr. KELLY'S PICK: Anyone who Lou Holtz "He is so strong, and I must stay away has pulled off the field by the helmet, from his left," he said. has to be tough. Bakich is the only Carr lacks the physical attributes but heavyweight with that distinction. Carr possesses the experience and will wish he had a helmet to protect confidence to pull out the win. himself. 
Brien Weiford 
v. 
Jamie Bailey 
Bailey's boxing style fit his nickname 
after you, and that is going to make for a tough fight." 
"I need to stay under control and concentrate more on boxing," said Bailey, a former wrestler. "Brian has a reach advantage which I will have to contend with." 
moving. 

"The winner of the bout may come down to who has conditioned the best." 
"He is a lot more aggressive than I am. When we fought last year, his experience showed, but this year I feel that if I am more aggressive than I can 
s 
stay in the fight," said
lb 
Zembillas. 

DOHRMANN'S PICK: Poley 
"I feel like I am ready both mentally and physically to win,"added Carr. "I have a big advantage in fighting last year, and knowing what to expect." 
Regardless of the outcome, thius bout should prove to one of the most watched in tonight's finals. 
DOHRMANN'S PICK:!ii: Although Bakich is a !::2 tempting choice, I must stick 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: Bailey is great to watch but I will always go with the boxer over the bruiser. 
KELLY'S PICK: If Bailey connects it's light's out. Weiford can't contend with that much power. 
Jeff Lyman 
v. 

Shawn Duffy 
No first-year fighters have ever had an easier trip to the finals than Duffy and Lyman. 
With no other contenders in the 195­pound division, they step into the ring for the first time tonight. 
And no one knows what to expect. 
These two off-campus seniors are both big hitters but Duffy has a three inch height advantage of Lyman. If size is the decider than the title will go to Duffy. 
"I think he is taller, so I am going to have to move a lot 
•••Ill 
and land my jab," said Lyman. 
lbS 

"I need to concentrate on my basics and avoid his jab," said Duffy. "I think we are evenly matched. It should be a great fight." 
Nervousness should also come into play, as the two have never fought in front of a crowd. 
I get really nervous when I think about it," said Lyman, "but I know that when I get in the ring, I will forget all about it and just fight." 
DOHRMANN'S PICK: I like Lyman because of his jab. It will win him the fight and the title. 
KELLY'S PICK: Anyone named after a soft drink can't be a Bengal Bout champion. Duffy by a split decision. 
page4 A Supplement to The Observer Friday, February 26, 1993 
1993 

' -----@)------Bengal Bouts ------~----­
"Nappy" symbolized all that the Bengal Bouts have become 
By JASON KELLY resurrect Notre Dame boxing in 1931, Sports Writer the inaugural year for the Bengal Bouts, now one of the biggest traditions on the 
A huge picture hangs inside the Notre Notre Dame campus. Dame boxing room, tucked away in a After receiving his master's degree in cornnr of the Joyce ACC. It is a portrait physical education in 1933, Nappy went of an aging white-haired man with the to work full time for Notre Dame's P.E. word "Nappy" written across the department. But much of his attention bottom. was always focused on the Bengal Bouts. 
It seems almost out of place among the "It was (Nappy's) impetus that helped youthful boxers training for the Bengal get boxing restarted at Notre Dame." Bouts, but nowhere was Nappy more at said Terry Johnson, a former Bengal home than among Notre Dame's boxers. Bouts competitor and one of the 
Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano is the directors of this year's event. "He helped father of Notre Dame boxing. For 49 with the organization and instruction years lw directed the Bengal Bouts and and it really grew in popularity." his name will forevl~r be synonomous Nappy's famous line "strong bodies with the nvent he built. fight, that weak bodies may be 
When Nappy arrived in South Bend in nourished" has become the motto of the 192X, the first person he met when he event, which raises money for the Holy steppnd oiT the train was Knute Hockne. Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
But he was hardly in awe of the Over the years, more than $300,000 lf~gendary football coach. All he wanted has been raised for the Holy Cross to know was how he could join Notre Missions in Bangladesh. Dame's boxing team. "Nappy really believed in the cause," 
Much to his surprise, the boxing Johnson said. "He would stand in the program, started five years earlier ring during the finals and thank them under Hockne's direction, no longer for giving their money to help people." existed. But the people would only give their 
Nappy wasn't satisfied. He helped money if they could see some good fights. Parity became the rule in the Bengal Bouts. 
"Nappy believed that once it ceases to be a contest, stop the bout," Johnson said. "He tried to match people up properly so that their wouldn't be too many blowouts. That idea still per­meates the boxing program today." 
Much of what Nappy said and did is still a part of Notre Dame boxing. 
He trained more than 3,000 boxers before his retirement in 1979, and he remained as director emeritus until his death in 1986.He is remembered fondly by all who came under his watchful eye. 
"(Nappy) was a kind and gentle guy," Johnson said. "He shaped the Bengal Bouts into what they are today." 
His picture hangs as a lasting reminder. 


Benga,'s award to be given to swimmers 
By SARAH DORAN Chicago Park District boxing program Sports Writer that benefitted disadvantaged youth of Chicago. 
The 1993 Bengal Bouts Award will be In light of the January 1992 team bus presented to the 1991-1992 Notre Dame accident that killed two swimmers and Women's Swimming Team this evening injured many others, the award will during the tournament's Finals. "remember not the tragedy but 
The award, which has been given recognize the talents of each of the annually for the past 44 years, members of that team," said Johnson. "recognizes those who have made The award serves to recognize and unique contributions to amateur and honor the members of the swimming intercollegiate sport and who have team for their commitment to personified the mission of the Bengal excellence and their unique Bouts," according to tournament contribution to all of amateur and organizer Terry Johnson. intercollegiate sport. according to 
The first award, given in 1949, Johnson. recognized Tony Zale as an individual Former recipients of the award who ha,d "contributed the most youth of include Father Ned Joyce, C.S.C., Ray America by example a,nd competitive Siegfried, Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C., spirit." Bishop Bernard Sheill, founder of the 
Zale, ex-boxing middle weight !!~~!~~al CYO athletic program, and chamuion of the wotld•.was. bf4d of dle ...~.~ciano. 
Bengal Missions real winners in Bouts 

BANGLADESII 
-IN'TE.JtNATIONALROtlNUARY 
SlrH()JVJSION Hot:!\1JAKY 

By SARAH DORAN guson, director of the Holy Bouts ever cease to exist, the 
~ NATIONALCAPJTAL 

Sports Writer Cross Mission Center, who is in Missions would not be with out e tmmucr IIEAUQI JARTF.K 
0 UJVISIONALJIFAI.IQl'ARTP..R

charge managing the funds. the addition funding. When Dominic "Nappy" 
... 
Napolitano founded the Bengal "There is no designation of The Congregation of the Holy Bouts 63 years ago, he began a funds on our part. We send the Cross arrived in Bengal 135 tradition that has help to feed money to Bangladesh and they years ago at the invitation of the hungry in the poorest spend it on whatever is neces­Pope Pius IX, when the Vatican country in the world. sary," said Ferguson. was looking for a religious community that would under Since the initial Bengal Bout The approximately $10,000 take to serve and build up the 
INHIA

in 1931, all donations and ticket that is raised by the bouts each church the area. 
proeeeds have benefitted the year is sent to Bangladesh, with .. 
Holy Cross Mission in the exception of $2,000-3,000 During the past half-century 
Bangladesh and these proceeds that is set aside for the the area has under gone major 
have assisted the missionaries Napolitano memorial fund, ac­changes in government, 
in their work on maintaining cording to Ferguson. experienced a great growth in schools, dispensaries, and feed­population and in addition the ing the country's masses, The memorial fund was local church has since taken 
acording to Father James Fer-established so that the Bengal shape and now flourishes. 
The Priests, Brothers, and Sisters of Holy Cross staff schools and formulation pro­grams, and serve the sacre­mental needs of large numbers of Catholics. Also, many have taken on specialized ministries at the service of the local 
BAY OF BENGAL 
church in education, health care, development projects, 88° ..,, 
oo' 91° 91!' 

justice work, drug rehabilita­tion, and spititual formation. Locations of Holy Cross Religious: DHAKA City & District: CHITIAGONG City In recent years the money has Dharenda, Nagari, 
KHULNACity

been extremely useful in Mathbari, Bandura DINAJPUR City 
helping the region cope with 
TANGAIL District: Jalchatra 
numerous disasters, most re­RAJSHAHI Town 
JAMALPUR District: Mariamnagar
cently a 1991 cyclone and 20 
NOAKHALI Townfoot high tidal wave that swept SYLHET District: Srimangal, Kulaura MYMENSINGH Town

through southwest Bangladesh 
BARISAL Town & District: 
wiping out entire villages and 
Padrishibpur, Gournadi killing over 140,000 people. Indian Holy Cross Religious are working in the adjoining districts of India­In the aftermath of the de­Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura. struction Bengal Bout money 
Bengal Bouts Finals 1993 staff
helped to feed, clothe, and house those left with out a place 
Melissa Cusack Sarah Doran 
to live. 

George Dohrmann Jason Kelly page 5 

Arabs, Israel invited to resume peace talks 
GENEVA (APJ -The United States and Russia, acting as cosponsors, will invite the Arabs and Israel to return to Middle East peace talks in April in Washington, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Thursday. 
!lis announcement came just a day after he concluded separate talks in Jerusalem with Israeli and Palestinian leaders, saying he was unable to set a date to resume negotiations. 
Faisal llusseini, a key Pales­tinian negotiator, said that President Clinton and Christo­pher wrote him "a very en­couraging letter" after the meeting between Christopher and the Palestinians, according to Israeli radio. 
Also, Christopher talked by telephone with the Palestinians and in Geneva with Andrei Kozyrev, the Russian foreign minister. Russia maintains good relations with the Palestine Liberation Organization. 
Christopher "obviously heard enough new about the attitudes of the parties," an official said later when Christopher flew to Brussels for a NATO foreign ministers' meeting on Friday. 
"It's a judgment that he made," said the official, who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity. 
"The very strong consensus in the Middle East is that the parties want to return to the negotiations," Christopher said at a joint news conference with Kozyrev after they met for nearly three hours. 
Christopher did not say whether the Palestinians had dropped their objections to phased rather than immediate repatriation of 396 Palestinians deported to Lebanon on Dec. 17 by Israel. 
If they have not changed their position, issuing invitations could be a pressure tactic to compel them to go along or risk isolation. 
*Save up to $3000 on your next car or truck *College graduate rebate of $400 *Buy now at only $100 over dealer invoice 
The University o otre arne Department of Music presents 
Janet 9-{i{ton 
One of13ritain sCttufing cfarinttist.s 
in a 
Guest Clarinet Recital 
..,~ 
Phyllis Rappq1orl, Pianist featuring 
Clarinet Quintet by W.A. Mozart with the Notre Dame String Trio 
Sunday, February 28,1993 2:00p.m. 
Annenbcrg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
$5 -~neral Admission, $2 -Students/Senior Citizens 
The Observer Friday, February 26, 1993 

The ObserverfT.J. Harris 

The fincil hour 
The backstage crew of the St. Mary's production of "Oklahoma" makes final preparartions before showtime. The musical opened last night and will play through Sunday 
Clinton to meet Yeltsin in one-day summit 
GENEVA (AP) -President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin arranged Thurs­day to meet April 4 in a one-day summit designed to bolster Yeltsin at a critical time. 
The meeting -Clinton's first venture abroad as president ­will be held in a third country, still to be selected. In announc­ing the summit, Secretary of State Warren Christopher said the United States is determined to support "the cause of reform in Russia." 
Yeltsin is certain to press for aid beyond the $417 million in technical assistance budgeted for Russia .and other former 
rea 
big l<id 
now! Happy 21st Birthday Betsy! Love, Your Mom, Mary Michael, Ruth, Debbie, John, Joe & Kiley 
"A 10! Absolutely brilliant satire, aremarkable film:' 
Gary Franklin·KABC·TV 
Soviet republics this year. 
In a meeting here, Christopher discussed "substantial aid" for Moscow with Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev without getting into specific figures, U.S. officials said. 
"We've established a good working relationship," Christopher said after his three­hour meeting with Kozyrev. 
If Yeltsin is unable to com­promise with conservative foes at home, he threatens to gam­ble on a showdown referendum which would occur on April 11 -a week after the summit. 
It would then be up to the Russian people to finally settle whether Yeltsin or the Com­munist-dominated parliament should hold supreme power. 
BB 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
XXII 
SIGN-UPS Feb. 28 
1-5 p.m. 
in the 
GREAT HALL O'SHAG 
and 
Mar.l 
6-9 p.m. 

on the 2nd floor 
LaFORTUNE 

2 CAPTAINS 2 NAMES $7 per team 
BE THERE!! 
Attention Juniors! JPW Pictures! 
The candid proofs that were taken at the JPW Friday Gala will be on display for ordering purposes. Remember the token color that the photogra­pher gave you so that you can look at the right proofboards. Bring a check and fill out an order form. 
VVednesday,Feb.24 6:00-9:00 pm Thursday, Feb. 25 12:00-5:00 pm 
SorinRoom 
Friday, Feb. 26 12:00-6:00 pm 
First Floor LaFortune 
Saturday, Feb. 27 2:00-6:00 pm Sunday,Feb.28 2:00-5:00 pm 

Friday, February 26, 1993 The Observer page 6 
Footstompin' Friday ~======~~==================~ 
SENIOR FORMAL 
Gerson acts not only as attorney general 
WASIIINGTON (APJ -At the 
Justice Department, Stuart 
Gerson is the acting attorney 
general, aeting associate attor­
ney general and an assistant 
attorney general. He is also a 
Hepubliean, held over from the 
Bush administration. 
The Democratic leadership 
void is almost as great at the 
Defense Department, where the 
bureaucracy was home alone 
when Defense Secretary Les 
Aspin fell ill last Sunday. Aspin 
is President Clinton's only 
confirmed appointee at the 
Pentagon. 
The Justice and Defense de­
partments are two of the fed­
eral govermmmt's biggest and 
most complex agencies. Yet for 
a combination of reasons they 
are operating during the hectic 
early weeks of President Clin­
ton's term with almost no high­
level nominees officially in 
place to press the president's 
agenda. 
The White House says it's 
been slow at filling top jobs be­
causn FBI background checks 
have been slow, and because 
the president and his aides had 
focused mainly on constructing 
the economic program Clinton 
announced last week. 
"I think that the pace is pick­ing up and that it just takes a while to go through this pro­cess," White House press sec­retary Dee Dee Myers said Thursday. "I think that we'll get people in place at the Defense Department and other agencies soon." 
These are not quiet times at the Pentagon. U.S. troops face lighting in Somalia, Clinton is planning military air drops of food to war-torn Bosnia, U.S. planes are still monitoring the skies over Iraq, the services face a new round of budget cuts, and a major fight looms over openly allowing homosex­uals in the military. 
Aspin's aides said he re­mained conscious during his four-day stay in the hospital, where he was treated for a heart ailment, so his duties were not transferred to anyone else. If a hand-off of authority 
It's Back -Better than Ever 
Country Music FREE Dance Lessons Raffles and Prizes 
TONIGHT 7-11 p.m. 
Saint Mary's Haggar College Center 
(Sponsored by SAB) 
had been necessary, there was no deputy defense secretary officially in place to assume Asp in's duties. 
Not only was there no deputy defense chief, there was nobody in any positi::m higher than James R. Locker III, who is No. 9 in the line of succession. Locker's title is assistant defense secretary for special operations and low-intensity conflict. He, too, is a holdover from the Bush regime. 
Aspin left the hospital on Thursday and is expected to make a full recovery. 
William Perry, Clinton's nominee for deputy defense secretary, said at his confirma­tion hearing Thursday that he couldn't predict when other top spots would be filled. 
Lots of love on your birthday Anna Tabor Mom, Dad & Jack 

LOOKOUT! 
THESE GIRLS WILL BE uRAlSIN" A RUCKUS! 

HAPPY 191/2 BIRTHDAYS! LOVE, YOUR ROOMIES 
TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 
Black Classic• ................. $41.95+ TAX Designer Tuxedos• ............. $56.00+ TAX Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAx 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 
Partial or full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: March 1st, 2nd and 3rd, 1993. (6:00P.M.-9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 
• 
LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Monday, March 1st and Tuesday, March 2nd. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Wednesday, March 3rd. 



"WE MAKE YONTV,,
THE EVE · 
Police slow to seek aid for King 
LOS ANGELES (AP)-Tw~t policemen transportin~ andn· jured Rodney King from one hospital to another detoured for nearly two hours. stopping at their station to show the beating victim to colleagues, a prosecutor said Thursday. 
In an opening statement, Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer also accused the two defendants of trying to con­vince medical personnel at both hospitals that King was under the influence of the hallucinogen PCP when there was no such evidence. 
The surprise allegations about Officers Laurence Powell and Timothy Wind came as the federal government launched its effort to do what state prosecutors could not -win convictions in the videotaped beating. 
The acquittals of Powell, 
~btd and two other white om­cers on most state charges ig· nited three days of deadly mayhem in Los Angeles, and the federal trial has had an un­dertone of racial tension since jury selection began. 
The multiracial jury listened raptly, sometimes leaning for~ ward in their seats, as Clymer outlined the case and played for them a newly enhanced version ofthe videotape shot by an amateur cameraman. 
Clymer said he would prove that Powell and Wind, along with Officer Theodore Briseno and their supervisor, Sgt. Stacey Koon. violated King's civil rights. He said the three officers brutally clubbed, kicked and stomped the black motorist who "was not a threat," and Koon did nothing to stop it. 
Their actions, he said, vio· lated their department's policy 
50TH ANNIVERSARY 
THE SHOW CELEBRATION YOU REMEMBER! 
HURRY! CLOSES SUNDAY! 
Rodgers~,
Hammerstem s OKLAHOMA! 
Music by R\C\"-IARD RODGERS Book and LyriCS by 
OSCAR . HAMMERSTEIN 
Basad on !he play Green Grow me Uac:s 
by Lynn Riggs O"-inal Oa~ by AGNES DE t.\1\..l.E 
Directed by JAMES P. BIRDER Musical Direction by NANCY MENK Choreography by INDI DIECKGRAFE Set &Lighting Design by SHAUN L. WELLEN Costumes by SYDNEY WELLEN 
Toni~l and Saturday 
FEBRUARY 26, 27, 8:00 P.M. 
Sl<lday 
FEBRUARY 28, 2:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS: $5 (SM'S·ND community with valid i.d.) Available at the Saint Mary's Box Office O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Charge Orders and Information: 284·4626 
on use of force. 
Facts outlined by Clymer were nearly identical to those presented in a state trial in suburban Simi Valley a year ago. Only the claim that Powell and Wind delayed King's treatment was new. 
A defense lawyer dismissed the allegation, saying the offi­cers went to the Los Angeles Police Department's Foothill Station to book King, who had been stopped after a high­speed chase on March 3, 1991. 
According to Clymer, the severely beaten King received some stitches at Pacifica Hospital, near the beating scene, then was to be transferre.d to Los Angeles County-USC Medical Center, a huge inner-city hospital with a trauma center and a jail ward. Powell and Wind agreed to transport him. 

-~-------~--~.~-~~~~~--~-----------..... 
page 7 
Despite rain, California must maintain conservation 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­Landscaper Craig Broberg hopes to turn brown lawns green. Mike Aburahma will wash his deli floor without first using the water to rinse the lettuce. And Marilyn Smith may flush more often. 
All over the state, Californians are drinking in the good news that the six-year drought is over. 
But officials have one caveat: with 30 million people and a limited water supply, the state isn't flush enough to abandon good habits learned in the dry season. 
"Conservation practices are here to stay in California. There's no question about it," said Douglas Priest, manager of the state drought center. 
Priest and Maurice Roos, chief hydrologist for the state Department of Water Re­sources, believe a storm last weekend finished the drought. Gov. Pete Wilson formally de­clared it over Wednesday. 
The snowstorm, the latest in a wet and wild winter, brought the water content of the Sierra Nevada snowpack to 140 per­cent of the April 1 average, enough to bring most reservoirs above normal when it melts, Priest said. 
During the drought, cities used reclaimed water to irri­gate golf courses, office build­ings piped recycled water through ornamental fountains, and Los Angeles firefighters trained with dry hoses. 
Before drought problems in Santa Barbara ended last year, one landscaper solved the brown grass problem with a $45 paint job using green veg­etable dye. 
Some water districts rationed supplies and residents swapped thirsty lawns for drought-toler­ant plants, installed low-flow shower heads and let toilets go unflushed. 
Priest suspected the latter conservation measure will be the first to go, but other lifestyle changes, such as installing a high-efficiency toilet tank and not letting water run during tooth-brushing, probably will survive. 
"We're looking at the best water-educated public that we've ever had," he said. 
Broberg, senior account manager at Four Seasons Landscape in nearby Walnut Creek, said his company will continue water-saving mea­sures, such as more efficient watering techniques. 


. 
The Observer 

WASHINGTON (AP) -The day of ultra-sharp pictures and concert hall-quality sound on television will come faster if the companies working on the technology join forces, says the chairman of the government's advisory committee on ad­vanced television. 
Communications attorney Richard Wiley is recommending that the firms form a "grand alliance" to merge their technologies instead of each pursuing their own formula for high-definition TV. 
The HDTV technology, used in one form or another in Japan and other nations, has been delayed in the United States for years because of the wrangling over an industry standard. 
The advisory committee was meeting today to decide whether to either select a win­
~-­
ning system, order further test­ing or establish a way to handle such an alliance. 
Currently, there are three industry groups with four HDTV systems competing to be selected as the standard around which all manufacturing and transmission will be conducted. 
"None is superior. None is really there," said Wiley during an interview Tuesday. 
But each group has made needed improvements since the first round of tests, he said. 
If the groups merge, they could pursue further improve­ments together. That way, the end product would be a joint accomplishment and delays from litigation and complaints by losing companies could be avoided. 
"I met with all the parties last week," said Wiley. "They have some business and tech­nological hurdles to get over (to form an alliance)." 
The groups represent the world's heavyweights in ad­vanced television technology and have been discussing a merger for two weeks. 
Wiley is suggesting they reach a deal on or around March 15 or go into re-testing to keep the process moving toward the goal of getting HDTV to consumers by 1996. 
About $20 million has been spent on the initial tests par­tially funded by the broadcast­ing and cable television indus­tries. A second round would be billed to the competing industry groups which have already in­vested millions of dollars devel­oping their systems. 
The difference between the advanced system and today's TV is even more extreme than the leap compact discs provided over 33 rpm LP albums. It has wide-angle, smooth-as-film pic­ture quality that provides the il­lusion of three dimensions. The sound is as sharp as in a the­ater. 
LAST CHANCE SKI TRIPI 

DOWNHILL SKI TRIP SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26 BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE 5:00PM RETURNS TO CAMPUS BY 11 :OOPM 
COST: $25.00 INCLUDES LIFT, RENTAL AND TRANSPORT 
$17.00 INCLUDES LIFT AND TRANSPORT 
BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE 
REGISTER AT RECSPORTS BY FRIDAY NOON!!!!!! 
Business 
page 8 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

•NEW Y RK -IBM confirmed ednesday that its restru<:turing will require the first layoffs in the company's history, and said it expects to eliminate more jobs this year than the 25,000 originally planned. "We don't know by how much and we won't know for a while," International Business Machines spokesman Jim Ruderman said. Each company unit is developing a business plan that will affect the number ofjob eliminations. he said. Industry consultant Robert Djurdjevic said he expects the increase won't be substantial. Company officials also said IBM would have to eliminate more jobs than previously planned at three upstate New York facilities and almost certainly lay off some of those workers. IBM has hinted at layoffs ever since it announced the latest round of job cuts late last year. 

.WA HINGTON-More than 100 savings and loan defendants who es<~ttped long prison terms in exchange for making penalty payments have repaid less than a half-penny per dollar of the $133.8 million they owe, according to an Associated Press review of federal court records. Some defendants -and some government officials, too -readily acknowledge there is little chance the 109 <:onvicted S&L figures who received plea bargains will ever repay the huge fines and restitutions. Though prosecutors can try to revoke probation for defendants who fail to pay up, the Justice Department has forgone a get-tough approach and left it instead to overburdened probation and parole officers to collect the money. 
N~w credit card backed by collateral 
•NEW YORK -While borrowers and lenders will always be adversaries to one degree or another, a new wrinkle in credit cards may be introducing an element of compromise to their dealings. The product in question is the secured credit card ­defined simply as a standard bank credit card that is backed by the collateral of a special savings account. Close to 700,000 secured cards are now outstanding, more than double the number of five years ago, says Ram Research Corp. of Frederick, Md., a firm which tracks developments in credit cards. Lenders like secured cards because they give them a way to sell their services to customers who wouldn't qualify for traditional unsecured cards. 
Joy indust~ agrees to warning labels 
By MICHAEL WORKMAN 
Business Writer 
This summer the Notre Dame Council for International Busi­ness Development will open a business oriented school with the cooperation of the Talinn Commerce University, in Talinn, Estonia, a former Republic of the Soviet Union, said Joe Rogers, president of the busi­ness council. 
The school's mission is to provide practical business in­struction that promotes the eth­ical economic development of Estonia, as it makes the transi­tion to a free market economy, said Rogers. 
The NDCIBD program will fo­cus on privatization and small business development. Rogers called tile school a "school of entrepreneurship, intended to help those interested establish themselves in a young open market." 
Four Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, Anthony Franks, Michelle Crisci, Shan­non McGinn, and Sean Farnan have been selected to teach the school this summer. The sub­jects offered by the program will be strictly business related, icluding courses in advertising, marketing, accounting, finance, and business communi­cation/public Speaking. 
Franks, a junior Accounting major from Notre Dame and Crisci, a junior International Business major from St. Mary's are both looking forward to the chance to experience a new cul­ture that neither of them are familiar with. 
Farnan will be responsible for teaching the Finance and Economical aspects of the pro­gram. 
Crisci, who will be teaching Marketing and Advertising is excited about being able to make an impact on the people's lives. "Since they really do not have much of a concept about advertising, I will have a chance to start fresh with them, and teach them an ethical approach to business marketing," stated Crisci. 
Northwest asks for tax break 
WASHINGTON (AP) Northwest Airlines urged the government Wednesday to help financially ailing air carriers by allowing them to keep the ticket taxes that they collect from passengers. 
That would "give us real quick help with our balance sheets and our cash flow," said John Dasburg, the Minnesota­based airline's president and chief executive officer. 
Northwest made the same proposal two years ago but to no avail. 
Airlines collect a 10 percent ticket tax and turn it over to the government to pay for airport improvements. 
"There is simply no point in collecting taxes today to build air transportation infrastruc­ture for tomorrow when the airlines for whom the facilities are being built are being de­stroyed in the process," Das­burg told the House aviation subcommittee. 
The airline industry has lost more than $8 billion over the last three years and North­west's parent company, NWA Inc., lost $1.06 billion last year and $317 million the year be­fore. It blamed steep price dis­counting. 
Every major airline could potentially benefit from the tax break except for Southwest, the only carrier that is making money. 
The reception of the sub­committee was lukewarm. 
"Wouldn't this amount to a subsidy on the part of the fed­eral government?" asked Rep. Greg Laughlin, D-Texas. 
Rep. Jim Oberstar, the sub­committee's chairman and a Northwest ally, sounded sym­pathetic but pointed out that Dasburg had offered no im­mediate way to pay for the tax break. 
Feds investigating mortgage discrimination 
WASI-IINGTON (AP) -Federal 
regulators fighting mortgage 
discrimination told impatient 
lawmakers Wednesday that 200 
banks and savings institutions 
with suspicious lending patterns 
have been targeted for follow­
up investigation. 
Using computerized loan data from 1990 and 1991, the Jus­tice Department flagged 200 institutions with wide discrep­ancies in loan approval rates between whites and blacks and Hispanics, Federal Reserve Board member John LaWare said. 
Four agencies regulating fi­nancial institutions will take a closer look at the 200, each se­lecting five or six with the worst records. The Justice Depart­ment then will choose from that list for subjects of full-scale intensive investigations seeking to prove discrimination. 
The agencies are the Federal Heserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision. 
!.aWare revealed the en­forcement effort after members of the Senate Banking Committee complained that regulators had done little to eliminate credit bias since Oc­tober 1991 when data was first publicly released showing that lenders were roughly twice as likely to reject loan applications from blacks as from whites. 
"These regulators, who we depend on, are very much be­hind the curve.... It's clear we have a problem," said Sen. Paul Sarbanes, D-Md. 
When the loan data was first released, regulators at first had said the different approval rates did not prove discrimination. But a follow-up study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston found a denial rate of 17 percent on mortgage applica­tions from minorities in the Boston metro area and an 11 percent rejection rate for whites with similar credit histories and debt levels. 
Now regulators have stopped debating whether discrimina­tion exists and have started looking for ways to end it, LaWare said. 
However, he said, "You don't do it by the stroke of a pen overnight.... It's a complex problem." 
He said it is still unclear how much of the discrimination is intentional, but said "racial dis­crimination, no matter how subtle and whether intended or not, cannot be tolerated." It's "morally repugnant and ille­gal," he said. 
Richard Syron, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, said regulators are coming to realize that examin­ing individual cases is a poor way to detect discrimination. 
Usually a valid reason for re­jecting an application exists, he said. However, some discrimi­nation apparently occurs be­cause loan officers more will­ingly offer white applicants ad­vice on how to qualify for a loan, such as paying off credit cards or providing a detailed explanation of past credit problems. Whites may receive more encouragement to submit applications. 
Sen. Carol Moseley-Braun, D­Ill.. the first black woman elected to the Senate, said regu­latory efforts so far appear to be without "any teeth, any muscle, any oomph." 
"For you to sit there and say 'we don't know how this hap­pened is stunning to me," she said. " ... This kind of ignorance coming out of regulatory agen­cies can't be tolerated." 
LaWare said the Federal Re­serve alone has brought 11 ac­tions over the past two years to enforce consumer protection laws. But under questioning from Sen. Donald Riegle Jr., D­Mich., the chairman of the committee, he acknowledged that only five involved discrim­ination and only one of those involved racial discrimination. The other discrimination cases were for marital status or age. 
"Frankly it's a piddling num­ber of cases," Riegle told him. 
LaWare said regulators had hired an outside consultant to help them improve their en­forcement program. But Riegle and Moseley-Braun complained that the consultant, the ac­counting firm Arthur Andersen, had no experience in the fair lending field. 
Friday, February 26, 1993 

NDCIBD to open school in Estonia 
The school will run from June 15th to July 31st. Each day the students will teach their se­lected discipline for one hour to Estonian adults who have had previous training in English skills. The council members will spend the rest of their time preparing their lessons, while taking occasional trips to cities such as Moscow and St. Petersburg. 
Funding for the school has been provided strictly by the council, and council president Rogers is quick to point out that this program "is a direct result of the dedication and the initia­tive of the members of the council." 
Shannon McGinn, founder and director of the school, is currently in Estonia solidifying the agreement for the program. After spending last summer in Estonia working for the Estonian National Shipping Company, McGinn recognized Estonia's need for assistance in its time of economic change and put forth the idea to the eouncil. 
Market fails to set drug prices 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The pharmaceutical industry earns at least $36 million more than development costs on each new drug and is able to raise prices for name­brand drugs even after they lose patent protection, a congressional study said Thursday. 
The Office of Technology Assessment study said mar­ket forces are failing to act as a brake on prices in much of the prescription drug market. 
"Pharmaceutical R&D is a costly and risky business, but in recent years the financial rewards ... have more than offset its costs and risks," said the report, which 
estimated  the  costs  of  
bringing  a  new  drug  to  
market at $194 million.  

The study is likely to add fuel to the fire under the pharmaceutical industry, re­cently attacked by President Clinton for what he called "shocking prices." 
The study said each new drug introduced between 1981 and 1983 returned after taxes "at least $36 million more to its investors than was needed to pay off the R&D investment." 
"This surplus return amounts to about 4.3 percent of the price of each drug over its product life," it said, and the profit margin is two to three percentage points higher than in other industries. 
The Pharmaceutical Manu~ facturers Association chal· lenged some of the report's figures as well as its thrust. 
"Pharmaceutical R8tDisthe best hope we have as a nation for breakthrough therapies in the treatment of such illnesses as cancer and Alzheimer's" that could help people and reduce medical costs, said Bob Allnutt, the association's executive vice president. 


-------~--------­
------------------------------~------­
Viewpoint 
Friday, February 26, 1993 page 9 
HARRIS! YOU tEFT Al50, WHAT YOUR I?AMN 5URF­AR&TH05e 
WHEAT. EJQ4R[) IN TH~ 84i51N7H~ 
SOY, HAUIAIAY AeA/N. 6ARtlGC:'? YOU'Re 
I G/WMPY 
7VIlAY/ 
~ 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Edltor-ln·Chlef Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A-meri'e1 

Mr. Cannon, 'an apology is in order' 
Dear Editor: WSND. I resent the fact that Mr. of alternative music. In his let­
I would like to respond to Joe Cannon would make such an ter, Mr. Scrudato apparently Cannon's Feb. 23 letter con­assumption without consulting feels that WSND should be a cerning campus radio. He me or a member of my staff. By substitute for WVFI because makes the erroneous assump­refusing to uncover the root of WVFI cannot, according to him, tion that a member of WSND's this matter by first speaking be received in some dormitory staff wrote a Feb. 16 editorial with me, Mr. Cannon is guilty of rooms. criticizing WVFI. As station "promoting ... by putting us If there is a problem with manager of WSND-FM, I can down." WVFI's reception on campus, inform you that the letter's Furthermore, this past Mr. Cannon, as WVFI's AMD, writer, Mike Scrudato, is not a semester, WSND had its most should investigate the problem. part of my staff. Should you successful fund drive ever, By venting his frustration on care to check this, our staff lists demonstrating its appeal to WSND, he fails to deal with a are available upon request. Michiana listeners. In this light, criticism of his station. 
Furthermore, I gave no au­Mr. Cannon's belief that WSND In his blatant disregard for thorization for any member of must promote itself by deni­the facts surrounding Mr. my staff to confer with Mr. grating WVFI is completely Scrudato's column concerning Scrudato before he wrote his unfounded. WVFI, Joe Cannon misrepre­article. Such approval would sents WSND. By neglecting to have been recorded in Adele Mr. Cannon also wrote that discuss his problem with me or Lanan's office in Student Ac­WSND is "not a substitute for a member of my staff, he gave tivities. Again, these records WVFI." I am in complete into the temptation of quick are available upon request. agreement. WSND caters to publicity. Because Mr. Scrudato 
Given these facts, Mr. Can­those listeners who wish to is not an agent of WSND, an non's comment that "We hear classical music; WVFI ap­apology to both him and WSND (WVFI), seemingly unlike peals to students who like al· is in order. WSND, are not jealous or vin­ternative and other brands of dictive towards our counterpart rock music. Realizing this, Christopher Coppula radio station" is unfounded. Mr. WSND will not change its for­Station Manager, WSND-FM Scrudato does not speak for mat to please campus listeners Feb.24,1993 

Dear Editor: 
The Observer's cabinet of spelling horrors has just been graced with a new gem by Jay Hosler, the Campus Spelunker. In last Monday's cartoon, Hank uses a Reincarnator X-2000 to zap his buddy Gus back from his kinky afterlife into a toy robot body. Asked how he feels, Gus replies: "Surprisingly homocidal, actually." Wait a minute. The word is "homicidal," stoopit, with 'i', not with 'o'. 
But wait again. Maybe this is more than another Quayling potatoe. Maybe "homocidal" is what Gus really meant to say. Maybe we are faced with a sub­liminal message from the car­toonist here. As I started ex­ploring the consequences of such assumptions, a real-life drama of unexpected depth and pathos began to emerge from the seeming absurdity of Spelunker-characters' every­day behavior. 
If we take Gus at his word, then Hank, the object of Gus's homicidal homophobia, is obvi­ously gay; Hank also must be closeted -which can be de­duced from his obsessive at­tempts at dating Jen. This, in turn, seems to unravel the se­cret of Hank's torturer, the dark and cynical Rejection-Man: he is really Self-Rejection-Man, that rabid demon that roams on Catholic campuses quaerens quem devoret. 
Poor Hank now begins to ap­pear as a tragic and pathetic anti-hero, the ultimate victim. Everyone knows about him ex­cept Hank himself; and, of course, Self-Rejection-Man will not protect him from the death­threats of a mechanized FISHER-Price maniac out of straight paradise. I expect in the next strip macho Hobo-Gus will snatch Hank's phallic Rein­carnator and nuke his pal into a heap of charred RICE-Krispies. Notre Dame, I love you. 
Fabian Lochner Off-Campus Feb.23,1993 

The 'unexpected depth and pathos' of Hank 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'He not busy being born is busy dying.' 
Bob Dylan 

Get busy, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
I~'--~~~---.------~----------------------------------------~------------------------~ 

FEBRUARY19-21 
weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC 
The Foggy Knights, 9:30p.m., Madison Oyster Bar, 288-3776,$ David Snyder. Slide guitar, 9:30p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern 
EVENTS 
Blak Koffe House,? p.m., LaFortune Ballroom, $3 in advance, $7atdoor International Show By Arpad Szabados, Art Exhibit, 4 p.m., IUSB, 237-4203 Just Singln' and Dancln' V, 8 p.m., Battell Theater, 258-1667, $ 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 
David Snyder. 9:30p.m., Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 255-0458, $ Dissfunktlon. 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., Club 23 
EVENTS 
Sister Joan Chittister, Seminar, 1 p.m., Carroll Auditorium-Saint Mary's, $3 for students, $6 at door 
Sportscard, Comic, Coin, and Collectibles Show,10:30 a.m., Benton Harbor Holiday Inn 
s 
y 
MUSIC 
Fine Arts Fund Concert, 2 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium.Snite, $5 
Dances of Universal Peaceb7 p.m., First Unitarian Church, 101 E. North Shore rive, $ 
EVENTS 
Feminist Forum Meeting, 3 p.m.,Foster Room, LaFortune 
Sophomore Literary Festival, Nikki Giovanni, 8 p.m .• Library Auditorium 
Simple Men, 8 p.m., Morris Civic Auditoruim, $5 

Cushing Auditorium Plnocchlo, Friday and Saturday, 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Snlte Swoon, Friday and Saturday, 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
Unlv. Park West Scent of a Woman, 12:30, 3:45, 7 & 10:15 p.m. Aladdin, 1:15, 3:20, 5:25, 7:25, & 9:25 p.m. Sommersby, 2, 4:30, 7:15, & 9:45p.m. 
Unlv. Park East Children of the Corn II, 9:20 p.m. A Few Good Men, 1, 4, 7, & 9:50p.m. The Temp, 1:20,3:10,5:10,7:10, & 9:10p.m. Untamed Heart, 1:20, 3:20,5:20,7:30 & 9:40p.m. Nowhere To Run, 1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7:30, & 9:40 p.m. 



The Observer/John Bingham 

Models pose in various positions at their late night rehersal. Tickets for "Manekins," are on sale at LaFortune information desk. 




Students display product on ta ents in fi mshow 
yJIM VOGL been the Steve Curtis Award, given to the student who appears in the most films. 
Nestled atop O'Shaughnessy Sierros will most likely be this 's Northeast staircase is a year's recipient. ped and cluttered film The purpose of the show is 
room. two-fold, according to It contains a 16 mm editing Gallagher. "The first is to achine, a mess of hanging film establish a film community at rips and John Sierros, eyes Notre Dame," because student assy and mind incoherent film makers and their hard lack of sleep. An adjoining work often go unrecognized I>Om-·an identical 8-foot square around campus, he says. -includes such Secondly, the show offers ties as a phone, food, a exposure and facilitates critique 
mT'"><>-maker, toothbrushes and from the public. 
ierros is among about 20 While most people don't go tre Dame Communication/ around showing their papers to majors whose work will family and friends, film students on exhibition at the Student are anxious for others to see Show this Saturday at 7:30 their work, according to Man­
9:45 p.m. in the Snite Audi-dell. "They work hard on their The Observer/Sean Farnan films and want their pieces to udents will show short Visiting professor and film maker Jill God mil low edits a film with students in the O'Shaughnessy loft. be seen by a lot of viewers," he horrors, comedies and said "It gives them validity." 
they created as projects ceeds. But I think we are more "Niles Street," last semester's radical new dimensions." "Film is a public spectacle," Introduction, Intermediate serious in our approach to tech­project, for an estimated 100 "Film is the most demanding added Godmillow. "As an artist, Advanced Film & Video nique and quality film making." hours, spanning five months. artistic medium there is," said until you've watched it through duction classes. Mediums "But the Student Show is a lot "At the end of last semester, I Godmillow, who appreciates the an audience, you haven't 
ed include SVHS (an of fun, too," urged Mandell. "It slept up here four nights every serious time her students com­experienced your piece." 
quality of VHS), Beta­should become an event stu­week," he confessed. mit to the art. "It takes a select Novice film makers are some­and 3/4 in. video, along dents want to see every year." group of people who can dedi­times surprised at the public re­8 mm and.16 mm film "People are completely Productions students' work cate their time." action to their films. "Someone amazed at the quality of film became intensified last Although Notre Dame's young will come in thinking their piece 
Sierros will submit "You Will making done here," Mandell semester with the arrival of production program lacks the is funny or dramatic and get a ," a four-minute 16 mm said. "Yet most people have no Professor Jill Godmillow, an high-tech facilities and prestige totally different reaction from r film which he has been concept or appreciation of how independent film/video-maker of a UCLA, USC or New York the audience," said Mandell. 
re-editing since mid­much time goes into making from New York. University, Godmillow has no­"It can be terrifying," warned mber. Sierros, a senior even a short two-minute "My expectations of what film ticed the University's commit­Godmillow. Oak Lawn, Ill., is in his movie." making is about was blown out ment to developing quality film So where do film makers go 
semester of production Sierros, along with classmates of the water this past fall," makers. beyond graduation? For Gabe Man and Pat Gallagher, Sierros said referring to She has also been impressed Sierros, Man and Gallagher, it's "It's a simple, formal piece," are testimony to the serious Godmillow's arrival. "She's by the students themselves. off to New York, where they will scribed Sierros of his nature of the program. absolutely fantastic, but she "The level of sophistication in meet with independent film 
ation, a sort of symbolic "I think most films students requires a lot of time and the advanced class is rare," producer Hal Hartley. 
put in nearly as much time as work." raved Godmillow, who taught as Hartley spoke to Notre Dame Most people associate Notre architectures, engineers, and Godmillow was nominated for a visiting professor for USC, Communications and Theater e student film exhibitions artists put into their work," said an Academy Award in 197 4 for Temple and California State students after the opening of his the Morrissey Film Sierros. "Antonia: A Portrait of the Tech. "They're making a movie "Simple Men" at South However, Ted Mandell, Man is submitting "Niles Woman," a documentary about statement about the way they Bend's Morris Civic last Sunday. 
assistant professional Str-eet," which he describes as the struggles of Antonia Brizo, see things work." Hartley, just 27, is the author of ecialist in the "a fantasy the first woman symphony con­two other low budgeted but mmunications enacted by a ductor. She has made dozens of While today's movies require highly acclaimed films, "Trust" d Theater man just hit by other documentaries and one multi-million dollar budgets and and "The Unbelievable Truth." 
partment, a car who's feature-length film. hundreds of cast and crew The three will brave the sed the dis­searching for Godmillow students respect members, student productions industry with a strong work purpose of a reason to her accomplished career, her face lesser-but still strict-de­ethic and high aspirations. Student Film live again." perfectionism and her commit­mands for money and people. "At this level, we're so busy 
"Editing film ment to pure, original film First, advanced students can trying to learn the technical takes ten making. afford the time and money to aspects that we can't really con­times more "It's very inspirational being a make just two or three films per centrate on the artistic side of work than student of someone who sup­semester, costing about $400 film," admits Man, "but that's 
orrissey people think," ports experimentation and the each for film stock and process­our goal." 
,"conceded said Man, who desire to do something new," ing fees. It's a ambitious but realistic ndell. "It's has been said Gallagher. "She's very Students also work hard to goal from the humble rpose is to be laboring on much into expanding the con­find characters for their stories. beginnings of the 
and it sue-the six-minute ventional notions of cinema and A running joke at the show has O'Shaughnessy Loft. 
Forum offers guidance to young poets 
KENYA JOHNSON there are only undergraduate the forum, said he enjoys the since there are no poetry 
Accent Ed1tor students in the group but that free atmosphere of the classes being offered this now thou goes, in this "graduate students and faculty meetings. semester," said Rigo. world!/ go with a are welcome." On the average "It's very informal," explained She said that having a peer 
ful state of mind and a five or six students show up to Clary. "We give and receive group, rather than faculty, in my hand/We//, that's the meetings, but occasionally opinions and critiques on the critique her work is "not quitegood." "the numbers have increased works. Everyone takes the as intimidating." the help of the Student all the way to 12," according comments well. It's a friendly "It's great to get feedback, but Forum this stanza of gib­Laser. atmosphere and no one takes in a very informal way," Rigo could possibly become The students majors vary things offensively." added. piece of logical from all walks of life, as does For the most part the com­Rigo explained that she has 
work. their poetry. mentary is positive anyway, ac­always had a love for writing Tuesday from 8 to 10 "The poetry we read is of all cording to Clary. "The works poetry, but that this semester is the Center of Social varieties," said Laser. "There's are really good," he added. the first time she's been 
Coffee House students everything from classical to Not everyone actually brings dedicated to writing. together to review each contemporary, and from stan­their original works to the ses­"The group inspires me do do 
dard to free verse." sions. Clary has sat and partic­more and do better each day," uncomfortable with reading my 's kind of like an editing fo­Writers bring ten copies of ipated in many forums, but has she said. "The forum has really works, but voice does make a to look over and receive in­each poem and pass them never once presented his work increased the confidence I hold significant difference in how the on our work," said Alan around to the members. Usually to the others. On the other in my works." piece is to be interpreted." r, student coordinator of students are limited to bringing hand, there are those such as Rigo also explained that the The forum is open for all. 
rogram. "It's more of a two copies each, but English major Allison Rigo, who process of the author reading Although participants agree discussion than simply "everything's flexible," accord­faithfully attend with poetry in their poetry really enhances the that the would like to keep the poetry." ing to Laser. hand. works. group "small and cozy," they said that currently Colin Clary, a participant in "It really helps, especially "At first I was kind of would like to see more interest 


i 
I I I I 
! 
Page 12 Friday, February 26, 1993 
Abortion cannot be worse than the Holocaust 
Some American Jews became 
indignant with the Catholic 
bishop who insisted on compar­
ing abortion deaths to the Holo­
caust in which a million and a 
half children perished. 
When the Jews protested that killing a child is a more vicious act than interrupting a preg­nancy, they were told that abor­tions performed legally at the local hospital were just as offensive to God as the gassing of the urchins in the death camps had been. The Jews did not believe this. "It's not the same," they insisted, outraged at the insensitivity they perceived in the bishop. 
The Jews could remember the young scholars wearing yarmulkes being marched from the yeshivas into the ovens, where they made their bar mitzvahs early, lisping the Shema in the heart of fire. Hearing at the temple service of how Rachel weeps for her children who are not, those Jews still mourn he daughters of Israel who would never grow up to say the blessing at the lighting of the candle which begins the Sabbath peace. 
Filled with memories of the young families destroyed by Hitler, the survivors of Dachau and Buckenwald continue to be indignant at hearing abortion deaths compared to the Holo­caust, and do not forgive the bishop for the injustice of this comparison. 
I am not able to forget the Whitman's Sampler box stuffed with Kleenex used by a student when he saved the embryonic remains of his young wife's mis­carriage from being flushed down the toilet like morning sickness. Were those faint stains on that tissue the remains of a human being in the foetal stage, endowed with an immortal soul? 
I took charge of the candy box containing all that was left of a pregnancy which brought so much pain to a young man and woman deeply in love with each other, who entered marriage to 

Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of Saint Mary's 
272-7510 
University of Notre Dome Department of Music presents ... 

Sunday, Feb. 28,1993 8:00P.M. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Meet a Master at Notre Dame "Confessions of a 20th Century Composer" 
lecture/discussion with Lukas Foss Free and open to the public 
Tuesday, March 2 8:00P.M. Washington Ha11 
Lukas Foss in concert 
~lth c_on tempo, Notre Dame's contemporary chamber music ensemble 
mcludmg works by: Foss, Haimo and Colgrnss Tickets: $5; $2 for students and age 65 or over For infonnation, ca11 631-8128 
Father Robert Griffin 
Bellers Ia a Bonefj 9od 

accommodate that pregnancy. How could I tell them it had now become simply love's labor lost? 
The lad needed to hear me promise some kind of Christian burial for something that is usu­ally flushed away like a stomach upset. But I couldn't find an undertaker willing to take that box, still smelling of chocolate, off my hands. The hospital would accept it with the warning it would be burned with the rest of the trash. 
The parish priest wasn't much help when he told me that the Church doesn't have a liturgy to memorialize the very tiny person whose life miscarries. His suggestion was, "If you want to have a service, use the Mass of the Angels." 
Finally, I dug a grave myself in a friend's garden, and buried those tissues in the Whitman's Sampler box serving as a casket, wrapped in aluminum foil to protect it from the wild things that visit gardens in search of food, deep in the ground under some tulip bulbs. 
When the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall arise, will that small grave under the tulips give up those remains? 
I prayed that it would, and hope that it will, and believe that it's possible, for that's the kind of faith I have as a Catholic. Jews might have a different kind of faith. Jews might not believe that there's anything at all in that candy box that has shared or will share the miracle of life as it 
was  enjoyed  by  those  
grandchildren  lost  in  the  
Holocaust.  

Why couldn't the bishop see that the Jews were right in their complaint, according to the light they've been given as Jews, which furnishes them with the truth they expect to be judged on? He is right too, according to his own lights; but it would be neighborly to back down on his grandstanding. He should be ashamed to cause pain to Jews overdosed on suffering. 
I do believe that the Catholic Church teaches divine truth di­vinely. I do believe in the mysteries, seen and unseen. The unseen things, like God's existence and the Three Persons in the Trinity, are easy to accept on blind faith. 
When I consider the visible world, I find it takes more than grace under pressure to keep me mindful of the mystery and miracle going on all around me, taming the cosmic darkness that precedes the dawn. Can dry bones live again? Can Spirit reanimate the dust deposited in five billion graves? Because of springtime, I believe in resurrections. Because of Easter, I know that my Redeemer lives. 
As a pro-life priest, I believe in the sanctity of life in the womb. The use of violent means to terminate such life seems unspeakably sad as well as sinful, but not everyone has had my advantages. Is an embryo a human being on the way to birth, for whom, at the first moment of its conception, a harp, a robe, and a pair of golden slippers were tailor­made, to be kept until claimed at the many-roomed mansion where Christ is the Guest­master? 
Or is the embryo genetic ma­terial, programmed and in via to become a human being. for whom first-class accommoda-

American composer 
Lukas Foss 
lecture • discussion and concert 
tions will be made as needed? 
The embryo can be regarded as 
holy, though it lacks a persona; 
and if Mother Nature, re­
considering conception, 
intervenes with a miscarriage, 
you're not tempted to think of 

her as unkind like a murderer, 
leaving seedling souls to be 
incubated in the nurseries of 
heaven. 
Catholic fundamentalists, re­jecting the second option, assure you that the Spirit is prompt in conferring holiness and humanity on the piece of teamwork produced by heaving backs; and you could feel sorry for God, held hostage to human desire. 
My vocation as God's Catholic servant is to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world with a brightness like that of a city seated on a hill. Who wants me as salt? Who needs me as light? Maybe the losers who gambled that abortion has no backlash that leaves you feeling dirty. 
On their behalf, I can protest the horror shows put on by protestors, holding up jars which contain pickled fetuses deserving of graves of their own under the tulips. Why make some unlucky woman pay for the abortion she has had with a nervous breakdown from the guilt trip hung on her by protestors, desperate to get her attention? 
When Lyndon Johnson was bogged down in that other Viet­nam, Martin Luther King offered the President his services as a peace missionary. But Johnson said no, he felt obliged to wait for the Green Berets to persuade Ho Chi Minh to beg for peace. 
Privately, LBJ told his aides that he didn't need "no black preacher spoiling his war, preaching sweetness," So King went back to the Ebenezer Bap­tist Church, where he preached sweetness to his flock every Sunday. When he went to Helsinki for his Nobel Peace Prize. he preached sweetness to 
DuQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
~·"'. 
MAKE A SPLASH-TAKE A CLASS! 
DUQUESNE'S 1993 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* *ACCELERATED SESSIONS* Ask about our wide variety ofScience Courses, Language Courses, and Trips! 
Registration is EASY-by FAX, phone, mail, or in person INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 for your complete SUMMER 1993 INFORMATION PACKAGE 
the King of Sweden. 
Coming home to tend his civil 
rights movement, he met a 
street gang of young militants 
who were dreaming of torching 
the ghettoes, "because," they 
said, "we're tired of hearing 
you preaching sweetness, 
Brother Martin, because it 
doesn't set food on the table." 
He answered meekly: ''I've 
been the mountain. Mine eyes 
have seen the glory of the com­
ing of the Lord, and I have a 
dream." Then he looked at the 
brothers. "That's why I preach 
sweetness, as a ~?ridge over 
troubled waters." For his trou­
ble, the young militants 
branded him an Uncle Tom with 
the sweetness he was preaching 
about on the brain. 
When he died as a martyr in 
Memphis, he was suddenly 
hailed as the Black Christ, and 
everyone remembered with 
pride how well he preached 
sweetness. 
What the Right-to-life move­
ment needs, if it wishes to save 
its soul, is a Christ-figure who 
can teach them sweetness, and 
how to show compassion. The 
abortion fracas has become the 
Catholic Vietnam hanging end­
lessly over our heads, deafening 
us with sounds of ignorant , armies that clash by night. 
What is needed to defuse a 
war with too ma.ny generals is 
an Uncle Tom or two-red 
yellow, black or white, from th~ 
Rainbow Coalition-sweet-voiced 
and sweet-faced, preaching the 
love of Jesus for our healing. 
Instead of keeping a head count 
of the victims whose guardian 
angels see the face of the 
eternal Father, strong to save, 
we should be keeping a 
headcount of the victimizers, so 
that we can show them Christ. 
The ninety-and-nine are safe 
in the fold; and so we must go 
where the wild geese go, offer­
ing to bring them home on a 
wing and a prayer. Maybe they 
will forgive our stupidities. 
Maybe they will understand, as 
Jesse Jackson would say, that 
God hasn't finished with us yet. 


Friday, February 26, 1993 The Observer page 13 
49ers' Young among protected players 
NEW YORK (AP) -Steve Young, the NFL's MVP, officially was removed from the league's first-ever unrestricted free agent pool on Thursday, along with dominant pass-rushers Neil Smith of Kansas City and Leslie O'Neal of San Diego. 
But teams seeking instant help were left with a potpourri of pickings that range from Philadelphia's Reggie White, one of the NFL's top defensive linemen, to Vinny Testaverde, the inconsistent Tampa Bay quarterback who was the top overall pick in the 1987 draft, and Bobby Hebert, New Or­leans' starting quarterback. 
Thursday was the deadline for teams to declare players they would protect from raids by other teams. The list was indicative of the vagaries of pro football. 
On the one hand, one-time top prospects such as Testaverde were left to sell their wares on the free agent market. On the other hand, players considered expendable under the now­defunct Plan B -Kansas City nose tackle Dan Saleaumua and San Diego running back Ronnie Harmon to name two -were protected under a far less restricted system. 
Houston solved a problem by re-signing backup quarterback Cody Carlson, who would have been a highly sought free agent. Then the Oilers protected three prime potential free agents ­All-Pro linebacker AI Smith, running back Lorenzo White and wide receiver Ernest Givins. 
There were two categories of players protected. 
One was "franchise players" like Young, the San Francisco quarterback, who must remain with the 49ers and be paid among the league's top five quarterbacks -a minimum of $3.28 million. They remain protected for the life of their contract and their team can't designate another franchise player during that time. 
The other category is "transition players," who must be paid among the top 10 at their positions. Their current teams have the right to match any offer made to them by other teams. 
Many of those included 1992 rookies whom teams want to protect even though their con­tracts aren't close to being up. 
... . •.. ­

The Observer accepts classffieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classdieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING 287-4082 
TYPING 256-6657 
CIRCUS LUNCH IS COMING! 
TUESDAY. MARCH 2, 1993 
North & South Dining Halls 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 ND Ave & Howard 
Dissertations, Theses. Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277-7406 
GRE TUTOR TOM 288-6578 
Eat the GRE for lunch!!! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST LOST LOST LOST BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER GLOVES at the SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL JACKIE at x2205-my hands are freezing! 
LOST: BROWN LEATHER JACKET SATURDAY OUTSIDE OF MORRISSEY. CALL 4-2338. 
IF YOU FOUND MY RADIO SHACK CALCULATOR IN GENETICS LAB LAST MONTH, THEN CALL ME FOR THE INSTRUCTION MANUAL. 
IT'S USELESS WITHOUT IT. 
LEAVE A MESSAGE FOR ALISHA #2933 
MISSING, PRESUMED DEAD. 3 KEYS ON A NIKE AIR KEYRING TO 425 CAVANAUGH. PLEASE CALL SEAN AT 1549 OR DROP KEYS OFF WITH CAVANAUGH RECTOR. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. 10 CAMEL DOLLAR REWARD OPTIONAL 
REWARD Ill Lost my beloved Ren & Stimpy keychain with keys in front of Dillon in South Quad on 2/23. Please call Ryan at xl 007 if you locate them. No Happy, No Joy!! 
Lost: Long, forest green wool coat at Dillon formal. Maybe our coats were accidently switched -I have a similar, bluish-green coat. 
Please hurry -JPW is coming up! Call4966. 
**SCARF-SCARF-SCARF** Somehow I've managed to lose three of them within the last four weeks. One is big and grey, two are small and black. Please call Paula @ 4271 if you find any of them. I'm freezing II! 
BIG REWARD!!! Lost: light brown leather jacket. 
AND ....... Do you have my mom's black, metallic-like ski jacket? I might have your missing jacket. 
FOUND: on tuesday on snow path near main library, a small key, perhaps to a bike lock; says "Krypto." Go to LaFortune Info Desk. 
Attention! I found your gold, claddagh earring! Call4-3842. 
LOST: Pair of sliver wire-rimmed glasses (I have no idea where). I need them for class and to drive! If found, call Bill at x1307. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628. 
SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach wanted for H.S. level team. Call 277-4791 for details. 
I'm a-going to Disney World! Actually, I am going home to Orlando, the City Beautiful, home of much more than Shaq and Mickey, for Spring Break. I've got some room, too. Join me. Call toll-free 273-0895, and ask for Ro. 
Help! I need a ride to Minn. for break. Please call Stet 284-5528 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn $2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 
1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. 
Rider sought returning from spring break in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian 3677. 
#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@# 
I NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI(OH) UNIV. THIS WEEKEND WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS CALL BRIAN 4-2081 
#%11"/o#"/o#%#"/o#"/o#"/o#%#%# 
Need ride for Spring Break to Binghamton, NY or area-Ithaca, Syracuse, Scranton ... X3624 
Driving to Atalnta for Easter? I can help with gas, tolls, driving, etc. Call Suzanna at x2900. 
50,000,000 babies 
FOR RENT 
Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom House now for 93-94 school year 234-1886 
FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND 3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 
BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. 219-291-7153. 
6,3,2 & I BEDROOM 
HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR 
FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE 
Oak Hill Condo For Sale 3 bdrm, 3 bath, family room 271-7288 
STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette recorder, turntable, am!lm radio, graphic equalizer. Good condition. Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy at 233-2407. 
WEDDING DRESS: SIZE 9/10. VERY ELEGANT, MUST SEE TO APPRECIATE. COST $1200 NEW, ASKING $475. CALL EVENINGS 
(616) 473-2107. 
VACATION PKG FOR 2-4 day 3­night s!ay (sun-Thu) with Restaurant & Attractions coupon bk. at Hilton hotel-Las Vegas, Orlando or Hilton Head. 30-day notice needed. Offer good to 5/1/93. $250. 273-1702. 
Flying to Austin,TX for Spr. Bk.? Need a ticket? I have a round-trip for $178 on "Frnds. Fly Free." I can't use it unless I find someone to fly with!! Leaves 3/6, returns 3/14. Call x4-1292. Please hurry!! I'll have to book a single flight soon! 
JACOBSON SNOW BLOWER. USED 1 YR. $200. 233-4903. 
MUSTANG -83, 2.3L engine,AM/FM stereo, automatic transmission, New parts: Battery, Starter, Alternator. pwr steering. 1100$ or best offer,#631 5608(Day) Ragnar,or 2725740(home) 
TICKETS 
I desperately need 2 graduation tickets!!! My grandparents have supported me all through college and I'm their last chance to see a grandchild graduate. I need help! Please call Gabrielle at 4-3023 
PERSONAL 
I what wuv you 
Desperate female seeking ride to 
D.C. area for spring break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah @ 284-4308 and leave message. 
Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. 
And I hope I die in the night time With the TV on and a beer in my hand And you by my side. 
I NEED A RIDE TO MILWAUKEE AREA MARCH50R6 CALL JULIE X3736 

Top I 0 Things That Happened at Joe Riley's 1st Annual Mardi Gras Blowout Party: I 0) Hour of power starts at 11 
9) Fat Albert dance rendition 

8) Da "DITKA" shirt-Thanks for the memories 
7) Raw Man asks "Who's the Bitch?" 
6) Ness cross dresses 
5) J.R. hooks up 
4) Lenten Countdown 

3) Ness passes out before Lenten Countdown 
2} Ross comes out of the closet 
I) Joe strips-woo!woo!woo! 

Happy Birthday SHANNON! love Ann, Jeannette and the old 6B crew 
ADOPTION -Affectionate professional couple longs to give a newborn baby a loving home. Legal, confidential, expenses paid. Call Dee and Michaelt-800-851-1865. 
Seniors!! Bid sales for senior formal are coming up! March 1-2 at Theodores and March 3 at LeMans lobby (6pm to 9pm) 
Senior Formal bid sales!!! March 1­3 from 6-9pm. (Monday & Tuesday at Theodores. Wednesday at LeMans lobby) 
HEY EVERYONE THIS IS YOUR LAST REMINDER 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS 
**..*SUNDAY FEB. 28th***** 
In the great hall of 

O'SHAUGHNESSY Bring your $7 and your cool team name to O'Shag on Sunday or we won't let you play .... we might not even let you watch!!!! 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS 

Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232­5843. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
***SPRING BREAK LOANS*** 
From the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 Day Loans Up to $250 @1% Interest 
Monday -Friday 11:30-12:30 

Need a ride to North Carolina over Spring Break. Call Dave at 4-3662 
SOUTH PADRE, OWNER DISCOUNT. BEACHFRONT, RADISSON RESORT, PARTIES, CONTESTS. SLEEPS 6-8 AND MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA HOUSE, SLEEPS 
4-6.$750. WK. 212-472-1414. 
GOING TO OR THRU PA FOR $PRING BREAK?? I NEED A RIDE! ERIN X2963 
I need a ride to South Dakota or anywhere west for Spring Break. Please call Mindy @4311 
Anyone Going to Panama City Beach for Spring Break? Call if you need a ride. Dave x2197 
HELP WANTED, PART TIME Need a Notre Dame student, preterrably a grad student or an upperclass student who is familiar with Notre Dame sports history to research 365 items of sports history about Notre Dame by March 1 . Willing to pay $400. If interested write or call: XENA CALENDARS INC. P.O. BOX 2653 KALAMAZOO, Ml 49003 616-372-4495. 
ADOPTION: A loving happy home, financial security, and educational opportunities await your newborn. We can help with your expenses. Please call us collect: David and Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's help each other. 
COO-COO!! 
Y LUV BB? 1 chemo Mary 2 gullible 3cows 4 3 am phone calls? 5clean room 6 soda 7 snoday ton cal marathon 8 new ringold 9 unlocked door 1 0 bull puckey 
Snow Day -Top 14 Quotes by 4th fir McCandless & McQ 14 I wonder how many calories we're burning 13 Who plays the harmonica 12 I've been burping vodka all day 11 Oops, wrong Mikel I 0 Who hasn't been booted yet 9 Southern girls can't handle it 8 Zahm sucks! But we love the Grim Reaper 7 If you "NAIL" me, you're dead ... l'm not dead yet 6 How 'bout them juniors 5 So many KEENAN guys, so little time 4 He looks tamiliar ... wasn't he one of your "random" hooks 3 I don't think the "BUD" will blow by the boat house 2 It's Lent I'm giving up drinking, smoking & sex-Negative 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MOM O'NEILL! 
Face the REAL issues: If the Wonder-twins battled it out, who would win: Jana or Zach? 
Never before has a first impression been so wrong; I'm happy to be seeing the real you. wish I knew which words to choose, but for now a smile will have to do. Thank you so much for being you! 
Attention Freshmen! Class elections are March 1st. Vote for the ticket with experience and proven dedication. Vote for 
KENDALL, FORD, 
AIMONETIE, & McDONALD!! 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY BECKY BIZUP!III!!! 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXII MAIN SIGN-UPS 
$7 PER TEAM 
1-5 pm in O'Shag-Feb 28th 
6-9 pm 2nd floor LaFortune--March I 
Get in on time-Late sign-ups will cost you more this year II! 
Colleen and Jen, The drinkfest continues into part II of the final semester. Can you keep up? Love, 
the evil one 
BID SALES for SENIOR FORMAL are March 1-31 Grab a date and buy your ticket I ($60 per couple). 
*&*&*&*&*&*&**&*&*&*&*&*& 
Hey Bethany Riddle: 
Thank you for organizing the party at Tippecanoe on Saturday night... It was a blast and llhink everyone had fun ... Thanks again for all the work you put into organizing it... 
Peace and Love-Whitney 
*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&* 
Hey Dell-
Stay off our phone. 
&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& The eight ball lies ... &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& Thar she blows. &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& CooiButler &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&&*&* 
DEATH IS FOREVER HEART DISEASE DOESN'T HAVE TO BE. 
Amedcan 
Heart 
Association 


Lost a week before Christmas break FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 1st Floor LaFortune 1 We don't have school, so why . Call Erin x4717 2773097 darmok O'Hara Lounge aren't we drunk 1-800-242-8721 
---~--~ --~-----­
r I I I I I I I I I I I L 
C:> •\'t ·"' ..... 
.. 
NBA STANDINGS 
'---' u 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Olvlalon  
w  l  Pet  
New York 35  18  .888  
New Jaraay 30  22  .577  
Orlando 25  23  .521  
Boston 28  25  .510  
Miami 18  32  .380  
Philadelphia 18  32  .380  
Washington 15  37  .268  
Central Dlvlelon  
Chicago 36  17  .679  
Cleveland 35  19  .648  
Charlotte 27  23  .540  
Atlanta 25  27  .481  
Indiana 24  28  .462  
Detroit 22  29  .431  
Mllwaull­20  32  .315  
~COIIIFEftENCE  
llllctw..t Olvlalon  
w  l  Pet  
San Antonio 34  16  .880  
Utah 33  19  .635  
Houston 31  21  .596  
Denver 20  31  .392  
Minnesota 12  38  .250  
Dallas 4  45  .082  
Pacific Dlvlalon  
Phoenix 39  10  .796  
Seattle 34  17  .667  
Portland 31  17  .646  
LA lakars 26  23  .531  
LA Clippers 26  25  .510  
Golden State 23  30  .434  
Sacramento 17  34  .333  
5 112 8-4 lost 1 


NCAA STANDINGS 
Big Ten Baskalbell Glance 
w 
Indiana 13 Michigan 10 llllnola 9 lowe 7 Purdue 6 Ml,_ola 7 Michigan Sl 6 Wloconaln 6 Ohio S1Jde 6 -tern Penn State 
Thunday'a Game Purdue at llllnoia 
Saturday'• Gemae 
lndl-atMI~ 
Nor1hweetem at Purdue Mlchlgan S1Jda at lowe 
Conference 
L 1 3 3 15 6 7 7 7 8 
12 
13 
~
(I .-::-
Gl l10 Streak 
9-1 Woo3 
8 112 8-4 Woo2 
9 5-5 lost 4 
18 1/2 5-5 lost 1 
16 1/2 1-9 Lost 3 
20 1/2 3-7 Lost 8 
8-2 Woo3 1 112 9-1 WooS 7 1/2 7-3 Wool 10 1/2 4-8 Wont 11 1/2 3-7 Won2 13 3-7 Wont 115 112 2·11 loat 3 
Gl L10 Streak 
8-2 Lost 1 2 8-4 lost 1 4 7-3 Woo4 14 1/2 5-5 Lost 3 21 4·6 Lost 1 29 1/2 1-9 Lost 7 
8-2 Won3 6 6-4 Woo4 7 1/2 4·8 lost 1 13 6-4 Lost 1 14 4-8 Wool 18 3-7 lost 1 23 1·9 lost 4 
,., 
Pet  w  
.929  24  
.789  21  
.750  16  
.583  18  
.1500  15  
.500  15  
.462  14  
.462  13  
,429  13  
,077  6  
.071  II  

Sunday's Games Michigan at Ohio S1Jde llllnola at Wloconaln 
T.-dey'e Game lowe at Michigan 
Home 23-4 17-8 18-10 15-7 12·12 9-15 10·13 
18-8 24-5 14-12 13-12 15-11 18-9 13·14 
Home 23-5 18-8 18-8 17-8 8-19 4-23 
21-1 21·4 20-8 14-10 18-10 12-12 12-13 
Games 
L 3 4 8 6 6 8 8 9 
10 
16 
17 
----------------, 
I 
232-9299 American Cab Co.  I I I I I  
"Frequent Rider Card"  I I  
Ride 10 times and receive $3.00 off 111h ride  I  
''We appreciate your business"  I  
Call ahead for prearranged pick-up  I  

----------------.J 
God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing withyours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219) 239-6385 
.·····. ·····................................... :""', :"'"
: : : : : :: ~ 0 .· ..... '
,"'!

..... ..... .... ..... ...... ...... . • ~-' \ 'l: c:> 
. : . ·.. : : : · .. : .,______ '; tfJJ ~ 
·············-· 
Away 12-12 13-14 9-13 11·18 8-20 9·17 5-24 
18-9 11-14 13-11 12·15 9-17 8-20 7-111 
Away 
11·11 
15-11 
13-13 3-23 8·17 0-22 
18-9 13·13 11-9 12-13 10-15 11·18 5-21 
Pet .889 ,840 .667 .750 .714 .652 .636 ,1591 .565 .273 .261 
................... ....... 
~
""'-,.;::. . 
# 
TRANSACTIONS NCAA 

American Laegue Nt:YV ~t:Hl;;I:Y DEVILS-Sent Myles O'Connor • 1. Indiana (24-3) did not play Next· 1111 Ml~ CLEVELAND INDIAN5-Agreed to Ierma with defenaeman, to Utica of the American Hockey Saturday. · · ' Kenny Lofton outfielder oo e four-year contract League lor conditioning. 2. K-.ci<y (20-3) lOll toT.,_..,. 78-n Next· VI 
MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Named John VIneY and TAMPA BAY UGHTNING--flecalled Keith Oabome, Auburn, Saturday. . . . Danny Garcia to their lntematlonal acoutlng ataff. forward, from Atlanta of the International Hockey 3. North Carolina (23•3) did not play. Next: 81 No. 6 Netlonsl L..gue League. Florida S1Jda, Saturday. 
FLORIDA MAAUNS-Agread to Ierma with Chuck Eeet Coeet Hockey Laegue 4. Arizona (19-2) did not play Next· VI Oregon S1Jda Carr, Jeff Conine, Carl Everett, Darrell Whitmore and LOUISVILLE ICEHAWKS-Returnad Mike Thursday. . . . ' Nigel Wllsoo, outfielders, and Brian Grfffltha and Jose Greenley, goaltender, to Atlanta of the International 5. Michigan (21-4) did not play. Next: 81 Ohio S1Jda, 
Martinez, pltchere, on one-year contrecta. Hockay League. Sunday. 
HOUSTON ASTROS--Agraed to terms with Tony International Hockey Laegue 6. Ror1da S1Jde (21 -6) at No.9 Duke. Next: VI. No.3 Eueeblo, Eddie Teubanaae end Scooter Tucker, IHL-Ordared Gena Ubriaco, AUanta coach, and North Carolina, Saturday. catchers; Shane Reynold a end Rob Mallicoat, Bob Francia, Sah Lake City coach, to perform 100 7. Kansatr (21 -6) did not play. Next: vs. Colorado, 
phchars, and Willie Anlley, Chris Hatcher, Brian hours of community setvlcalor fighting In a game on Saturday. Hunter and Gary Mole, outfielders, oo one-year Feb. 21 · 8. Vanderbilt (22-4) beat Georgie 87-63, OT. Next: at contrecta. S0 C C E R Mississippi S1Jde, Saturday. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Signed Don National Prot..elonel Soccer Leegue 9. Duke (20-5) vs. No. 6 Ror1da S1Jda. Next: vs. Wakamatsu, catcher, Billy Ashley, outfielder, and CLEVELAND CRUNCH--Activated Tommy Tanner, UCLA, Sunday. Greg Hanaall, pitcher. mldflelder, and Glenn Carbonara, defenseman, from 10. Clrrclnnlllll (20-3) did not play. Next: at No. 20 NEW YORK MET5-Agraed to terms wilh Kevin the disabled llat. Marquette, Thuraday. 
Baez, shortstop, 00 a one-year contract COLLEGE 11. Utah (21·3) did not play. Next: VI. No. 23 Brigham BASKETBALL IVY LEAGUE-Named Carolyn Campbell senior Young, Saturday. National B..ketbell Aeeocletlon associate director. Promoted Charles Yrlgoyen, 12. Wel<e Foraet (17-6) loot to Clamsoo 76-74. Next: 
NBA--Finad Xavier McDaniel, forward, $3,500 for esslatanl director, to easoclllla dlractor. VI. No. 22 VIrginia, Saturday. an elbowing Incident In a game on Feb. 18. Fined BAYLOR-Named Jack Crowe offensive 13. UNLV (17-4) did not play. Next: VI. Nevada, Michael Jordan, Chicago Bulla guard, end Scottie coordinator. Promoted Larry Fedora, graduate Thursday. 
Pippen, Chicago Bulls forward, for missing a news conference during NBA All-Star Weekend. NHL STANDINGS Continental Beekatbell Aeaocletlon 
CBA-suapendad Cliff Robinson, Rapid City Thrillers forward, Indefinitely, lor failure to abide with WALES CONFERENCE the league's substance abuse policy. Petrick Dlvlelon 
FARGO-MOORHEAD FEVER-Acquired Melt 
w 
Olhlck, guard, from the Omaha Racers for a 19113 
Pittsburgh 39 fourth-round draft pick. 
Washington 32
LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Activated Jarvis 
New Jersey 29 Basnight, forward. 
NY Rangers 27 OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Acquired Dalmon 
NY Islanders 27Sweat, guard, and a 1993 sixth-round draft pick from Philadelphia 22 the Fort Wayne Fury lor the rights to Melvin Newbern, Adame Dlvlelon 
guard. Activated Steve Burtt, guard. 

Montreal 38 
OMAHA RACER5-Signad Kenny Drummond, Quebec 35guard. Acquired Sam Johnson, forward, from the Booton 32 
Fargo-Moorhead Fever lor Mark Peteraon, forward, Buffalo 31 
and future coosldaratlona. 

Hertl~d 16
RAPID CITY THRILLER5-Actlvated Ralph Lewis, Ottawa 7 
forward. 

CAMPBELL CONFERENCEROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Pieced Maurice Norrie Dlvlelon 
Alexander, guard, oo the Injured rnarvellll 

w 
FOOTBALL Chicago 35National Football League 

Detroit 33GREEN BAY PACKER5-Signad George Bethune, Toronto 30defensive end. Claimed latin Barry, running back· Minnesota 30defensive back, off waivers from the Cleveland 
Sl Loula 26 Browns. 
Tampa Bey 19 INDIANAPOUS COLTS-Nemed Fred Bruney 
Smythe Dlvlelon esslstant offensive coecll. 
Vancouver 34 SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Signed Andrew 
Calgary 32 Stewart, defensive end. 
Los Angeles 27 HOCKEY 
Winnipeg 27 National Hockey League 
Edmonton 22 LOS ANGELES KING5-Aaslgned Robart Lang 
San Jose 8 and Mere Fortier, canters, to Phoenix of International Hockey League. MINNESOTA NORTH STAR5-Signad Ulf Dahlen to a contract through the and of the 1992-93 season. 
THE: INCREDIBLE JOURNEY 

Fri: 5:15, 7:15, 9:15 Set-Sun: 1:15, 3:15, 5:15,7:15, ~ 9:15 
JEREMY IRO 
DAMAGE 
Fri: 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Sal-Sun: 1 :30, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

l T Pts GF Gil 18 5 83 254 200 22 6 70 250 214 26 5 63 213 214 25 9 63 240 230 28 6 60 246 223 29 11 55 239 246 
19 6 82 256 204 18 9 79 259 221 22 7 71 243 215 22 7 69 264 213 40 4 36 195 273 53 4 18 146 304 
L T GF Gil 20 8 78 221 172 22 9 75 276 221 22 9 69 211 182 23 9 69 216 209 29 60 210 225
·a 

40 4 42 167 238 
19 8 76 256 193 21 9 73 245 209 27 7 61 244 260 28 6 60 226 233 33 8 52 182 243 52 2 18 167 309 
$13t* $149* $1st* 
Guatemala $165* Quito $169* 
•fares are each w~ fi'om Chicago based oo a roundtrip purchase. Taxes oot inducted and restrictions apply. Call for other 'MXIdwide destinations, both one w~ and rOU'Idtrip. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., 2nd floor Chicago,ll60610 
311-951-0585 
Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 

Ill 
ALUMNI !CLUB 
Juniors! 
Applu todau for bartender positions! 
Applications can be pirned up in the Student Activities Office, 3rd floor LaFortune 
Deadline: i1arch 19, 199J 
-----~----~ -----~~-------~-~----------, 
Friday, February 26, 1993 The Observer page 15 
Mashburn announces intent to enter draft sPoRTS BRIEFs 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Ja­mal Mashburn, the key player in Kentucky's return to national prominence, is headed for the NBA after this season. 
"It seems like I won't be coming back next year to Uni­versity of Kentucky basketball," Mashburn said at a news conference Thursday with coach Rick Pitino at his side. "It seems like I'm ready." 
Most players keep their col­lege status in limbo and wait until the end of the season be­fore making the announcement to turn pro. 
Shaquille O'Neal waited until April 3 last year to announce his departure from Louisiana State for the NBA. O'Neal ear­lier had denied he would leave LSU before graduation. 
Pitino has said all season this would be Mashburn's final year in a Kentucky uniform. He said that was to keep fans from get­ting their hopes up and then leaving a "bad taste in their mouths." 
"We've been very honest from Day 1," Pitino said. "We said if Jamal is one of the top picks, he's going pro. I think everybody has a good taste in their mouth because they haven't been misled." 
Mashburn, a 6-foot-8 junior forward, signed with Kentucky after the school was placed on probation by the NCAA and banned from postseason play. 
SENIORS! 
Buy your senior formal bids!! 
Monday, March 1 Tuesday March 2 
LaFortune Ballroom 
(formerly Theodore's) 
6pm-9pm 
Wednesday, March 3 
LeMans Lobby 
6pm-9pm 
Bids are $60 per couple 


page 16 
Two foes, one day for men's tennis 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The members of the Notre 
Dame men's tennis team won't 
back down from a challenge. 
That fact is obvious this 
weekend, since for one of the 
only times during the year the 
Irish will not face a ranked op­
ponent. but as an ambitious 
and aggressive squad they have 
decided to play two on 
Saturday. 
You see. the sixth-ranked Irish and coach Bob Bayliss have opted to schedule this weekend's matches against Northwestern and Illinois on the same day, so they can meet both teams and still stay within the NCAA limit for match days. 
"The two matches in one day will be difficult," noted Bayliss, "It's a bit of a gamble." 
However, if the Irish have the stamina, then this wee~end could actually be the easiest of the year. After facing three top­ten teams over last weekend at the National Team Indoors, the Irish have played the number­one, three. eight. ten. 11. and 23rd-ranked teams in the country this season. Nonetheless. the Irish are wary of the Big Ten's talent. 
"I have a lot of respect for Northwestern. They have the potential to be one of the top four teams in the Midwest." said Bayliss. "We expect a tough match. 
"Illinois is a bit down, they 
are rebuilding. But they have 
three good players." 
In addition to the test of fac­
ing two teams in one day, the 
Irish will also use this weekend 
to experiment with their still­
unsettled doubles lineup, which 
has seen notable changes 
throughout the year. 
Aside from the number-one 
team of seniors Will Forsyth 
and Chuck Coleman, the Irish 
have lately gone with Ron Rosas 
and Chris Wojtalik with Mark 
Schmidt at two-doubles, and 
Mike Sprouse with Jason Pun or 
Todd Wilson at the three spot. 
"We don't really have any­thing set in stone," noted Bayliss, who added that they will decide after the first match who to go with in the second, depending on how the Irish handle the fatigue factor. 
And despite the unsettled lineup and their 4-4 record, Bayliss and the Irish are pleased with their performance thus far, especially considering their killer schedule. It doesn't get any easier, as the Irish are slated to face two top-five teams in Pepperdine and Tennessee. and 1Oth-ranked Texas on their home court in the upcoming weeks. They will then travel to the Blue-Gray National Classic where they will undoubtedly face up against two or three more top-twenty squads. 
The matches are set for 1 :00 
p.m. and 6:30 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

I expires 3/5/93 I 
L-------------------------~ 
Winter-
SPecial 
Save 
Hurry ln. For a limited time only on a one-year lease. 
Look at some of the great advantages Hickory Village offers: 
• Beautifully Landscaped • AttenUve Staff Grounds • Balcony or PaUo 
• Clubho~:se • 24-hcur Emergency 
• 
Neat 1: Cle&n Laundty Maintenance Service Facilities • Air CondiUonlng

• Planned Activities

• 
Cable TV l.valleble 

• Free Aerobics

• 
Disposal 

• 
Sparkling Pool · Close To Shopping 


.. 
Stop by today and discover quality, affordable living. 
Efficiencies from only $250 1-Bedrooms from onfy $265 2-Bedrooms from only $325 
272-1880 
+UCKORU 
DlLLAC3EJA 
Mon.-Fri.~. 
Sat10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

The Observer 

Wilson meet to give women test 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's track team will be competing at home Saturday, as they host the Alex Wilson Invitational. The meet will include some of the biggest college names in America, including Ohio State, Georgia Tech, and the Univer­sity of Illinois. 
Last week. the Irish took fifth at the Indiana Intercollegiates, a meet featuring teams from the state of Indiana. Excep­tional performances were turned in by Karen Harris in the shotput and Eva Flood in the 3000 meter run. 
The team took fifth in the meet despite the fact that they were without freshman Erica Peterson, their leading sprinter, who was competing in the Canadian Nationals last weekend. In addition, many runners who last week did not compete in their regular races will be back in their familiar events. 
"We should see some marked improvements this week," commented coach Joe Piane. 
The meet will begin Saturday at 10 a.m., and will continue through 4:30 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Friday, February 26, 1993 

Last chance for men to qualify 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
It's crunch time for the Irish. The culmination of the indoor track season arrives this Satur­day with the Alex Wilson Invita­tional. This meet is the last chance for many of Notre Dame's Track athletes to qual­ify for post season competition. 
"We have to do it. this meet," said senior captain John Coyle. 
Along with the burdens of qualification, the Irish also face their toughest competition of the year. 
"This meet should prove to be exciting. The Alex Wilson is always a high caliber meet," said Notre Dame head track coach Joe Piane. Coach Piane predicts that the events to watch will be the 800 meter, the mile. the 400 meter and the mile relay. In many of these events unaffiliated or spon­sored athletes will compete which tends to elevate the level of performance. 
"The mile relay could be awe­some. We have the number 2 and number 3 ranked teams in the country here this Saturday," said Piane. 
This meet will also feature all of Notre Dame's top perform­ers, including senior co-captain John Coyle who will race the 3000 meters in his first indoor meet of the year. Coyle will be one of the many attempting to qualify for the IC4A's, the first post season competition. 
Junior co-captain Todd Her­man, already provisionally qualified for the NCAA's in the high jump, will use Saturday's meet as yet another opportu­nity to secure his spot at the NCAA's. 

Intervarsity Christian Fellowship 
Tonight! 7pm, CSC 
Bart Campolo 
ccour Responsibilities to the Inner City)) 
Questions? Call Kevin x41384 or Lisa x44290 
i·•m••HERE'S ACOURSE THAT COMBINES 
ITALIAN AND 
ECONOMICS 



Talk about a heavy course load If you're a Notre Dame or St. Mary's student or staff member, just show us your ID and we'll g1ve you all-you­can-eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. Plus unlimited fresh garden salad 

ALL YOU CAN EAT 
SPAGHETTI, GARDEN SALAD, & BREADSTICKS 
$5e95 
TUESDAYS, AFTER 4 PM 
~~-,_-· ·2--... 
I

/ ~'">.:""-;~ • ·;,/l.j_ ,, '":"~•I ____.:!!:..::J~.-~"-~-~ ·~·. ~S;!I!r ..1J 
.... 

and warm garlic breadsticks. It's all just $5.95. And you don't have to be a math 
major to figure out that that's a great deal. 
~., --,~ ~
O'·• ~.,W)~ • IT-\1.1:\N HI '-,l-\1 In~ I 
WHERE AtJ.THE BEST Of ITAlY I) \t)l 'Rs.· ·Opposite University Pork Moll, 277-6503. -----------------·--------­


------~--------~~ 
The Observer 
Friday, February 26, 1993 
Irish look to unusual heroes in loss 
points and five rebounds. The guard was hot-handed from beyond the three-point line hitting six of nine attempts. 
As well, his two free throws with four seconds left in regulation which tied up the game for the first time. 
"The mechanics were out there tonight. I felt good on my shot and they were falling for me. It's a good feeling to finally have a night where I really, really let go and hit a lot of shots," said Boyer after the game. 
But Boyer was not the only unusual hero in the game. Joe and Jon Ross, Sean Ryan,_ Patrick Keaney and Matt Adamson also made important contributions. 
"Sean Ryan gave us a great 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
our Fan Club, 
Mom, Dad, 
Ken, Mike 
Adamson did the same.
& Cath 

ATTENTION ALL PRE-LAW SOCIETY MEMBERS! 
Positions for all Pre-Law Society Officers must be filled for the 1993-94 school year. Any interested member should pick up an application in the Pre-Law office at 104 O'Shaughnessy. All applications should be submitted by March 2. 

effort. That young man has great heart, character, savvy as does Pat Keaney and Matt Adamson. Sean, Pat, Matt-all three of the walk-ons gave us a tremendous effort," said MacLeod. 
Ryan fouled out in the second overtime, but before that he hit two key free throws while Keaney and Adamson helped contain the Dukes in the over­time periods. 
All three notched equal if not more time on the court in the game. Ryan's previous high was three minutes against Marquette, Adamson's was three minutes against Missouri, and Keaney's was against North Carolina and Kentucky. Ryan who was the only one of the three to score in the game scored two points for a new ca­reer high. 
Although they fouled out in the first and second overtimes respectively, Jon and Joe Ross had 12 rebounds each. Jon Ross also chipped in 10 points and two assists while Joe had six points and shot 50 percent from the free throw line. 
The highlights of the game came on extra-effort saves which kept the Irish in the game. Jon Ross dove for the first one tipping it to set up Boyer's foul shots at the end of regulation. Ryan saved the ball from going out of bounds in the second overtime to keep Notre Dame in the thick of things and 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
A SEARCH FOR 
Unlver.;lty ol Notre Dame THJE §JP>[RIT Notre Dome, IN 46556 
Thl THE UFJE WE UVE 
lJionrt C<>nco<no 211-23H'3& Iodin Hal Z1t-238-52ol2 
A weekend away for seniors who have service or social action experience 
March 19 -21 Sponsored by: The Center for Social Concerns Campus Ministry 
Come if you want to: -­Share Stories -­Spend time alone -­Laugh and Eat -­Ask BIG questions Explore how faith  and  service  are  related  

Applications available at: 
The Office of Campus Ministry or the Center for Social Concerns 
Application Deadline: "February 28, 1993 
page 17 


The Observer I Macy Hueckel 

Brooks Boyer led Irish scorers with 24 points. The Irish were forced to call upon their reserves to contribute, as the contest went to triple OT. 
Bookstore b-ball sign-ups to begin 
By MARK McGRATH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball tournament, the world's largest 5-on-5 outdoor competition, will be holding sign-ups this Sunday, February 28 from 1-5 p.m. in O'Shaugnessy Hall and on Monday, March 1 from 6-9 p.m. in the S.U.B. omce on the second floor of LaFortune. People interested in signing up should bring the names of two captains along with two team names. The entry fee this year will be $7 and should be brought to the sign-ups. 
TakeShoner,'s
Combo 

PickThree For $5.99 

SeafoodBar Fri.-Sat. Starting At 5 P.M 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
D GrilledS:allop; D GrilledShrhnp D GrilledFish 
D Fried5ca11op; D FriedShrhnp DFriedFm. 
(Hint:ThereAre No \\Tong Answers.) 
Deciding which to have won't be easy Will it be the grilled scallops, the fried fish and the grilled shrimp? Or the grilled fish, the fried shrimp and the fried scallops? If you can't decide, don't worry-they're all great and cooked to be moist and tender. And served with Potato, Bread and the 
All-You-Care-To-Eat Soup, Salad and SHONE~~ 
Fruit Bar, no matter what you get, you'll be awinner. Offer available for alimited time at panicipaling Shoney·s SeafoodGJrnbo ~ 

page 18 
The Observer 
Friday, February 26, 1993 

Hockey travels for final two games Fencers to begin postseason action 
., 
By BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an inspirational overtime victory last Saturday night, the Notre Dame hockey team will try to build some momentum this weekend as the regular season comes to a close by facing Western Michigan University and the University of Michigan. 
The Irish will travel to Law­son Arena in Kalamazoo, Miehigan, on Friday to face the Broncos of WMU (14-10-2 Cen­tral Collegiate Hockey Associa­tion record, 17-13-2 overall). 
The Broncos. who are ranked fourteenth in the nation, are ranked fifth in the CCHA. They have already clinched home ice for the playoffs which begin in two weeks. 
The Irish last played WMU in a home-and-hom~ series on November 20 and 21. The first contest, which was played in the Joyce Fieldhouse, resulted in the first Irish victory of the season. After defeating the Broncos 3-2 in the JACC. they fell 5-4 at WMU's home ice. 
The Broncos, who are 5-5 in their last ten games, have been known as an inconsistent team. "There are some weeks that they are world beaters and some weeks they are cold," said Notre Dame head coach Hie Schafer. 
"We have to keep it close and hope to pull it out in the end." he said. "This is definitely a winnable hockey game." 
"We've gut to play good, sound defensive hockey and take care of our opportunities when they're presentod to us," said Irish alternate captain Dave Bankoske. 
The Irish will conclude the weekend against the Wolver­ines at Yost Arena in Ann Ar­bor, Michigan. 
The Wolverines are ranked fourth in the nation and are tied for second in the CCHA with Lake Superior State. This match eould be a preview of the CCIIA playoffs when the Irish will most likely play the second ranked team in the league. 
Michigan ( 19-5-2 CCIIA, 23-5­3 overall) has already defeated Notre Dame three times this season; 6-1 at Yost Anma, 5-1 at the Palaee in Auburn Hills. Miehigan. and 7-1 in the Joyce Fieldhouse. 
"They are an awesome hockey team and they haven't been showing any mercy to anyone," Schafer said. 
"That's like preparing to play against a pro team, " he added. "There is no question that they are a very good hockey team." 
... 
I.Buy 4 • ~ions~t the regula;lI price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 
I Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA 7 I
L---------,__J 
Indian Ridge Plaza next to Venture Grape Rd., Mishawaka 277-7946 
Daily 9-5 Sat. 9-5 Sun 11-5 
Twenty one Wolverine players 
have been drafted and every 
senior is likely to go profes­
sional next year. 
"If we play our best and they 
have some let downs" said Irish 
captain Matt Osiecki, "and we 
capitalize on our chances, then 
we will have a chance (to win)." 
Along with the momentum 
that the Irish gained from their 
victory last weekend, they will 
be boosted by the return of al­
ternate captain and second 
leading scorer Curtis Janick~ 
who was out for several weeks 
with a shoulder injury. 
In the milestones department, Bankoske needs three assists pass Boston Bruin Dave Poulin and move into seventh place with one hundred and eight. With seven points, he will move into eighth place on the all-time point list. 
Jamie Ling, who has twenty live assists, needs eleven more to pass Brian Noble for most assists in a season by a fresh­man. Freshman Brett Bruiniks has earned eighty four penalty minutes through thirty games this season. With seventeen more minutes he will become the all-time Irish leader for penalty minutes in a season. 

The Ohser.,er says: "Hey Kids, Comics!" 
THIS PARENTS' ISN'T COMIC 
BOOK

YOUR 



Wired Comix 
NOTRE DAME'S FIRST STUDENT PRODUCED COMIC BOOK Now Available in all dorms 
or contact: 
All Star Comics Dave Devine Collector's Den Comics 41 7 East McKinley Steve Duenes JMS Plaza Mishawaka Jay Hosler 4609 Grape Rd. 258~4388 Bill Rosemann 277~4404 
r-----oo~tJUri-Re8d1t;P~g-,tOlH_____i 
I  Send all writing/art submissions now for Issue #2 to:  I  
I  WIRED COMIX  I  
1  P.O. Box 683  I  

L------------~~~~~~~~~------------~ 
By KEVIN JANICKI 
Sports Writer 

On Saturday, February 27, 
the Irish men's and women's 
fencing teams travel to East 
Lansing, Michigan for the 
Midwest Intercollegiate Cham­
pionships. This tournament will 
be the first postseason step 
towards qualifying for the 
NCAA Championship Tourna­
ment. The men enter the 
tournament with a 23-1 record 
while the women begin post­
season play at 17-3. The Mid­
west Intercollegiate Tourna­
ment will involve about 18 
teams including squads from 
the Big Ten. 

The Irish's strongest squad going into this tournament is clearly the men's foil, led by senior Jeff Piper (45-6), junior Rian Girard (51-11), and sophomore Stan Brunner (45­11). 
"All three are fencing excep­tionally well and have shown to be the class of the midwest." comments men's head coach Mike DeCicco. "I would be very surprised if we don't have four finishers in the top ten." 
The Notre Dame women's foil, along with the foilists from Wayne State, Ohio State, and Northwestern should also fare well against the rest of the midwest. Led by freshmen Claudette deBruin (50-8) and Mindi Kolagera and senior Kathleen Vogt (45-15), the women hope to have another successful postseason run. 
The men's sabre will be led by senior Bernie Baez (49-22) and 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
SATURDAY 
en's Tennis 
s Northwestern 1:00PM s Illinois 6:30 PM 
ree clinic offered y team at 11:30 AM 
Eck Tennis Pavilion Lacrosse vs Canisius Loftus 6:00 PM 



~ssion 
lex Wilson Invitational eyo Track 10:30 AM ree admission -..,.. 
• 
IF 

junior Chris Hajnick (50-22) as: they face off against tough teams like Illinois,' Northwestern, and Ohio State, whom DeCicco cites as the strongest sabre teams. 
Junior Grzegorz Wozniak (45­
15) and senior Per Johnsson (40-20) look to lead th1~ epeeists. 




Drum"

~~1£···11 Salmagundi 28 Uptight 41 "-Me," 1931
iii 12 Disaccustom 
50 lacocca's real -'-+-....j..:::.~ 14 Check 29 Bezel song first name 
~.:..+==-! 17 With lance in 30 Pack pipe 42 Acuminates 
51 She scats with hand tobacco 46 Tohubohu cats 21 Match king 
34 Relinquish 47 Ex-constellation 52 TransudeKreuger 
48 Furrow 55 Nigerian native 
23 Hordeolum 35 Composer Speaks
24 Reboant -;;-t:;:+;:+.'-B~-=+=+-=-1 25 Confine 
36 "Excess of­Get answers to any three clues transmissions cause of 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
to special covetousness": 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0115
groups Marlowe 
THE KING•s MANOR 
Sat. Feb. 27
6 course meal and 2 112 hr. lickets at 
show. Complete with Knights, Lafortune Info Maidens and Jousting. Desk. Bus leaves Main Circle at 1:00pm 

Today • 
Friday, February 26, 1993 
I 

j SPELUNKER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
1 
I 

T ~ 
I ~ 
<_ 1 
I 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
TO 1\'JOI'D \)ElECTION Gos\-1, 11s 't-1\.\\LE C\.\~t-lGII'\G \Ot.N.TITIE~, 01\RI<. I~ \-\ERE . MILD-M/1.1'\Nt.RE.D Cl\li.J\N WI-IERt.'S 11\"-T 
LEAP'S INTO \.\15 L<X.KER .' DI\RN 1-\M'~\)LE ;. 

© 1987 FarWor1<s. lncJD1stnbuled by Unrversal Press SyndiCate 
"You sure you're supposed to be doin' that, Mitch?" 
1ACROSS 26 Surrender, in a 54 Couch potato way 56 Squall
Tale of the 30 Mather matter 57 First German Volsungs 31 Witness president5 He painted a 32 Wye follower, in 58 Faineantdream world London 59 Astronomer 9 Kin of a lighter 33 Assamese group Knopf3 Sponsorship 
34 Used a strop 60 Actors Leibman 4 Angular military 36 Flapper and Glass construction 
37 Vandalize 61 TV hit senal: 
1977 815 Orifice 
38 Stick, in Sevilla ­6 This attracts 
39 Use a thurible 
coverage 
DOWN
40 ConspicuousaJordanian 43 High dudgeon 1 Tractor-trailerqueen: 1972-77 44 Tall and thin 2 --P, Dickens9 Mental image 45 Kin of a testa characterPianist Yong 



47 He rode five Derby winners 49 Products of Paul 53 "--Stallion " Jeffers poem ' 
-+'-+-:..j..:....:c.j..:.....l 
3 Nobelist in Literature: 194 7 4 "The , 
Prokosch work 5 Consecrate 6 Arabian port 
7 Wool: Comb. form 8 Having creditors r.;,-+--+--+-~ 9 Disgraced 10 Cause of hue and cry in 
27 Filling for a TV 38 Jetty 49 She wrote "The 
filmdom 
tube Salamanca
39 Friable 
• 
Sports 
GEORGE DOHRMAN 
The Jock Strip 
Bengal Bouts are a tangible part of Notre Dame mystique 
Tonight at R:30, one of the truly special things at this University takes place in the .Joyce ACC Arena. 
The Bengal Bouts began as a vision of Dominie .1. "Nappy" Napolitano some sixty years ago. lie envisioned an evnnt where men could practice the ancient sport of boxing but also help a worthy cause. In 1931 the Bouts became that vision. 
Wn have seen the face of college athleties change over the years. No longer is honor, discipline, and 
togetherness spoken in the same breath as most collegiate sports. Athletics have become business. and that businnss strips away the integrity sports once possessed. 
The Bengals offer a glimpse of sports before business intruded. They are untainted. Students fight for the chance to be part of that which encompasses the Bengal Bouts, the pride, the friendships and the cause. 
"No matter if you win or lose it is just great to be a part of the Bengal Bouts," said junior finalist Dan Schmidt. "To know that you are helping others and taking part in one of the events which make Notre Dame special." 
The Bouts do make this University special. They are a starke example of the Notre Dame mystique. Often the University's image is just that, an im­age. We are unable to single out what components create the feeling which draws so many to Notre Dame. The Bouts are a part of that image which can be grasped, a piece we can recognize and thank for its contribution. 
So people do understand the Bout's place at Notre Dame. Nearly a hundred boxers start training in the hope that they will compete. That number always seems to fall, and in re­cent years has hovered around seventy. 
But it is not only the boxers who have come to understand the Bouts. Since the start of the event, over $300,000 dollars has been raised to help the Bengal Missions in Bangladesh. That sum can be credited to fans wishing to take part in the magic of the Bouts. 
Napolitano left large shoes to fill when he retired in 1979. His death seven years later prompted Bouts organizers to place a large portrait of him above the ring in the boxing room of the .JACC. 
But it is not simply a picture which recalls the memories of the Benga'ls first director. Terry .Johnson, this year's director, brings back thoughts of Napolitano as he races around the .JACC, making sure each detail is in place. And then when he climbs in the ring to referee the fights. 
"The Bengals are just a great event to be involved in," said freshman finalist Tim Norton. 
In recent years, the posters advertising the Bouts have become a symbolic reminder of the historic event. But it is the fighters, the directors. and all that the Bouts give each year which reminds us of the significance of the Bengal Bouts. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Bookstore b-ball signups 
see page 17 
IITrack teams host meet 
see page 16 
IIHockey wrapsup season 
see page 18 
Friday, February 26, 1993 

Dukes drop Irish in triple overtime 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish battled for three overtimes last night against the Duquesne Dukes but their lack of depth showed as the Irish dropped their sixteenth of the season, 80-76. 
The game started out slowly and after three and a half minutes of play the Dukes had a 9-1 lead. The first half continued that way and at one point the Dukes owned an 11 point lead. 
Alan Watkins led the Dukes during their first half barrage. The high point man for the Dukes in the first half. Watkins was no mere power forward but looked and played more like an offensive lineman in a tanktop. Watkins led all scorers with R points in the 
half. 

• See Unusual Heroes pg 17 B r o o k s ------------Boyer was 
instrumental in keeping the Irish in it at the half, 32-23. The shooting guard provided a long range arsenal throughout the game for the Irish, with six for nine shooting from-three-point range. Boyer finished the game as Notre Dame's high point man scoring 24. 
With 3:11 left to play Notre Dame started its comeback to tie the game. Ryan Hoover took the ball at the top of the key, hit a three pointer, and was fouled. Hoover converted the four point play, putting the Irish down three. 
Duquesne hit a free throw and then Jon Ross of Notre Dame was fouled under the rim. Ross hit the two free throws to pull the Irish within two. 
The Observer 1Macy Hueckel .Jon Ross continued the scoring with a line-drive three that answered a Duquesne 
Jason Williams starts to drive against an unidentified Duquesne player. Williams was held bucket: Notre Dame then fouled ?n the 
scoreless in the triple overtime Irish loss. other side and Duquesne returned with one free throw. Academics force Russell out for season With four seconds left, Jon Ross saved the 
ball from out-of-bounds to Brooks Boyer who drove to the basket and was fouled
Special to the Observer MacLeod said. 
hard by Watkins. Boyer hit the clutch free throws and sent it into overtime. 
Malik Russell, a 6-7 sophomore Russell missed last night's game and The first and second overtimes were low forward on the University of Notre will also miss the final two games of the scoring affairs that brought Notre Dame and 
season-March 3 versus Valparaiso and
Dame basketball team, will not play or Duquesne into triple overtime. It was the practice with the Irish for the March 7 at Louisville. first overtime for N.D. basketball since 1934. remainder of the 1992-93 season, head Even with the long range cannons of .Jason coach John MacLeod announced today. The Brooklyn, N. Y., native leads the Williams, Brooks Boyer and Lamaar Justice "Malik has not been meeting his team in assists (54) and blocked shots the Fighting Irish went for four straight (20), and ranks fourth on the team in minutes in the third overtime without a
academic requirements, and we will not point. And it was this scoring drought thatpermit basketball to interfere with the scoring with 7.0 points per game, while cost them the game. The final score was 80­commitments he has in the classroom. also averaging 4.6 rebounds (second to 76.
We sat down and talked with Malik and Monty Williams' 9.3 mark). He had 
"It's a very frustrating loss. We haddetermined it would be in his best played in all 24 games before last chances in overtime but we couldn't
interests to eliminate basketball from night's contest, starting 14 times and overcome our slow start," said Irish head his schedule the rest of the way," averaging 25.3 minutes per game. 
coach John MacLeod. 
The finals of the Bengal Bouts begin tonight at 8:00 pm in the JACC. For more coverage, see the pullout in today's Observer. 






