
The Observer
VOL. XXV NO. 126 THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Student government considers course guide book 
Wellman suggested The Guide as part of their platform during this year's elections. 
"The Guide is a commitment made by faculty and students to the quality of intellectual life here at Notre Dame," Flynn said. "Its impact and success hinge on the amount of partici­pation we receive from the stu­dents and faculty." 
The Guide will rate the quality of the instructor and the readings, the amount of work required, the level of difficulty, the pace of the course, the competitive atmosphere and the amount of interest the subject matter stimulates, according to the mission statement of The Guide. 

Juror's illness interrupts King trial 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Student Government hopes to clear up ambiguity and end the uncertainty of choosing courses with The Guide, a completely student-run course evaluation book. 
By compiling students' ratings of professors, texts and exams in a course, The Guide "gives students a chance to contribute their feedback about the classes and gives students a clearer and better idea of what their classes are going to be like, " said Susan Petrovic, The Guide co-chair. 
Student Body President Frank Flynn and Vice President Nicole 
And the winner is . .. 
The Guide will not include course evaluations for classes with fewer than 25 students. In classes with few students, "the results would be skewed and that's unfair to professors," Petrovic said. 
If funds allow, Student Gov­ernment hopes to make one copy of The Guide available to each dorm room. 
Other universities like Har­vard and Princeton have offered students written course guides for many years. Eva Milofsky, administrative advisor to the Harvard guide, CUE, said that both students and faculty find the book helpful. While CUE is nearly 1,000 pages, "It gets 
see GUIDE/ page 4 

Lou Holtz reads Trivial Pursuit and Cheers questions as the moderator for the Dillon-Alumni Olympics held last night in the South Dining Hall. Alumni Hall won by five points. 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Delib­erations in the Rodney King beating trial were interrupted in their fifth day Wednesday when a juror got sick and went to a doctor. 
U.S. District Judge John G. Davies said he expected jurors to resume deliberations Thurs­day morning on whether four police officers violated King's 
federal civil rights in the videotaped beating. 
The jury has deliberated 25 1/2 hours. In a state trial last year, jurors deliberated 32 hours before acquitting the offi­cers of most charges. The ac­quittals sparked riots that left 54 people dead and caused $1 billion in damages. 
Davies had summoned lawyers and the police officers to his courtroom for a "proceeding," but didn't elabo­rate, prompting a flurry of speculation inside and outside the courthouse about whether the jury had reached a verdict. 
The proceeding was delayed for an hour when one defense lawyer couldn't be found. When it began, Davies took the bench and told lawyers he hoped they would stay within 10 minutes of the courtroom at all times. 
''I'm speaking of the future, which means, of course, no verdict has been reached," the judge said with a slight smile. 
"We do have a problem," Davies said. "One of the jurors appeared to have become ill and requested medical atten­tion." He didn't disclose the na­ture of the ailment or indicate which of the jurors, whose identities have been kept se­cret, was afflicted. 
Davies said the juror was going to a family doctor, ac­companied by a federal mar­shal. The other 11 jurors re­turned to the hotel where they are sequestered. 
Attorneys said that if the juror became too sick to continue, one of three alternate jurors would be chosen by lot to enter the deliberations. 
"The real problem is if the new juror gets in there, they have to start all over again," said defense attorney Harland Braun. Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Clymer said he too hoped Davies wouldn't dismiss the ill juror. 
Jurors had been deliberating whether Sgt. Stacey Koon, Offi­cers Laurence Powell and Theodore Briseno and ex-Offi­cer Timothy Wind, all white, deprived black motorist King of his civil rights. An onlooker videotaped police beating King 
"It's not meant to be deroga­tory in any way," Petrovic said. 
The Guide will include only courses taught by professors who choose to participate in the project. Student Government sent questionnaires to profes­sors before Easter and is cur­rently waiting for their re­sponses. 
"Of about 200 responses from faculty members, about three fourths have been positive, of­fering support for the project and willingness to participate," Petrovic said. 
Father Miscamble, associate professor of history, said that he "hopes it will be a positive project." While he thinks it will benefit students, he also said 
The Observerrr.J. Harris 

after a traffic stop March 3, 1991. 
In South Central Los Angeles. hit hardest by last year's riots, the Rev. Cecil Murray was presiding at a funeral when the judge called participants to court. When it became clear there was no verdict, Murray asked, "Isn't most of life anticlimactic?" 
that he will seriously consider what students say about his classes. 
Most professors who chose not to participate said they are going on leave next semester or they want to see the first copy before they take part in it, Petrovic said. 
Student government will give professors who participate evaluation sheets, separate from the TCE's conducted by the University, to pass out to students. The book will be compiled throughout the sum­mer from this information and will be available next fall in time to register for spring 
. courses, Petrovic said. 
Four ND students awarded Fulbrights 

By ROB ADAMS 
News Writer 
After submitting proposals through a rigorous selection process which took place all over the United States, four Notre Dame students have been given the chance to research specific topics abroad by winning Fulbright grants. 
David Holsinger, Jennifer Martin, Michael Pries and Brian Ray recieved four of this year's Fulbright Grants given by the United States Information Agency. The grant covers all costs and travel to the country where the research is to be completed. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are interested must first develop and present a research proposal to the head of the Fulbright program at Notre Dame, Professor John Welle. After a screening and interview conducted by a professor who teaches the field that the student wishes to pur­sue, a letter of recommendation is written and sent to the New York Institution of Education. 
The first "cuts" are then made and the finalists' projects are sent to the United States In­formation Agency where the final 700 are chosen. 
"Fulbrights are an attempt to get Americans to broaden their cultural experiences through education abroad," Welle said. 
"I was really excited because I have always wanted to study abroad," said Martin, who will be researching stability and control through aerospace engineering at the D.O.R. Insti­tute and studying at the Uni­versity of Braunschweig in Braunschweig, Germany. Martin, who was formerly a hall president and is now an R.A., plans to eventually get her PhD. in aerospace engineering, work for a while, and then teach. 
Pries majors in economics and will be working with a Brazilian "think tank" next year in Sao Paolo where he and his co-workers will research the economics, politics, and so­ciology of Brazil. 
Pries has spent a year abroad in Mexico, worked as an intern in Chile, and participated in the social services project and the overseas development network here on campus. "I am very happy to be able to live in Brazil and experience a new culture," he said. 
Ray is double-majoring in liberal studies and Japanese and will be studying Zen Bud­dhism with Nishitni Keiji, a Japanese philosopher in Kyoto, Japan. He plans to eventually 
see FULBRIGHT I page 4 

Wednesday began with a strange spectacle at the down­town courthouse. Koon and his attorney, Ira Salzman, arrived wearing Groucho Marx-style gag glasses with fake noses and phony mustaches. 
"We're trying to provide a little lightheartedness," Salz­man told reporters. He said the masks were given as gifts. 
Braun questioned the appro­priateness of the disguises during such a serious case. "These men have been pushed beyond human limits to un­dergo this thing and it's prob­ably not in the best taste, but they are decent men and under cooler conditions I'm sure they wouldn't have done it," he said. Also Wednesday, defense attorney Michael Stone con­firmed that U.S. Marshal Craig Meacham met with lawyers to discuss plans for their federal 
see KING I page 4 

Brooks pleads 'not guilty'; opts for pre-trial diversion 
By SARAH DORAN tered into the program which Associate News Editor is open to first time offenders of limited offences, said 
Notre Dame student and Nelson Chippman, deputy varsity football player Reggie prosecutor of Marshall County, Brooks plead not guilty to a who is handling the case. charge of carrying a handgun The pre-trial diversion pro­without a permit and entered gram involves entering into a into a pre-trial diversion pro­contract wherein the three gram Tuesday night in the agree to obey the law for a Marshall County Court. year, and if the time passes 
Brooks', along with his without any further violations, cousin Damien Perry and all charges will be dropped longtime friend Marco and the case dismissed. The Holmes, were accompanying three also must each pay a him on the way back from $170 fee to process the case, target practice at a friends he said. home in Marshall County "Its a contract where they March 29. The three were basically promise to obey stopped for speeding and the themselves for a year," guns were discovered Chippman said. "I consider 
Perry and Homes also en-the case disposed of." 
page 2 Thursday, April 15, 1993
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Jury must hold standards of Constitution 
The Sixth Amendment to the Constitution guarantees "in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an 
impartial jury." Business Editor 
Nowhere does it ________ mention that a jury's verdict should be affected by popular opinion, wealth, influence, or even the possibility of rioting, however strong. If Officers Koon and Powell are indeed guilty of beating Rodney King, they should be punished to the fullest extent of the law. If the two are not guilty, they should not be made scapegoats in an attempt to redress the inequities that exist in today's America. To suggest that the King jury should consider during its deliberations the possible effect of its verdict is to commit a violation of Koon and Powell's civil rights as serious as the one the two officers are accused of committing on Rodney King. Many convincingly argue that the justice system does not consistently deliver fair and impartial verdicts for African-Americans. Although constitutional Jaw may be the furthest thing from the mind of a youth in a Los Angeles ghetto, it is the one weapon on the side of the African-American underclass in their struggle against injustice. The two-hundred year old document is still the last and greatest defense retained by the underprivileged in this country. The Constitution protects us from illegal search and seizure, guarantees that we must be indicted by a grand jury before being tried, and when we are tried, we receive free legal advice and a trial by a jury of our peers. Certainly, our justice system is not perfect. Defendants do not always receive all of the rights articled by the Constitution, but does this injustice allow us to intentionally compromise the rights of two men in an attempt to rectify the situation. The Constitution is not at fault; its implementation is. Under the Constitution, African-Americans are entitled to the same rights as whites. even though this is not always the case in reality. We must not oppress the privileged to make them equal to the underprivileged. Instead, we must raise the oppressed to the level of the privileged. Anything else would be senseless. When we compromise one right in an attempt to guarantee another, we risk compromising them all. Blacks will risk even greater injustices i such an event occurs. President Johnson's 1968 Report on the Commission of Civil Disorders in the aftermath of the Watts riots concluded that America is moving toward two separate societies, one black and one white. Watts marked a crossroads in American society. The L.A. riots marked another. We must not take the wrong path again by denying basic civil rights in a desperate attempt to guarantee those same civil rights. That route will not work. Spring may be in the air, but the season threatens to be a stormy one if this nation allows its principles to be compromised. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff 
Sports

News Jonathan Jensen 
Theresa Aleman Jason Williams 
Brian Kubicki 
VIewpointProduction 

Lynn BauwensSusan Marx 
Whitney Sheets Lab Tech Macy Heuckel
Accent 
Mara Divis 
Graphics

Steve Tankovich Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Weather The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 15. 
INTERNATIONAL Truck accident kills two soldiers 
•G~ATEMALA CITY -A truck carrying well-drilling eqmpment overturned near Guatemala City, killing two 
U.S. soldiers helping with road and other building projects, the American Embassy said Wednesday.Names of the victims were being withheld pending notification of relatives.The embassy said the accident Tuesday occurred near the town of Salama about 40 miles north of the capital. The cause was under investigation. The soldiers were part of a project to help Guatemala with road-building, well-drilling and the rebuilding of a hospital in Salama. 
NATIONAL 
Peo~le in the news 

OF INTEREST 
• 
A Hospitality Luncheon to benefit the Bosnian Refugee Resettlement will be held at the Center for Social Concerns today from 11:30-1:30. All are welcome. 

• 
Where are you in your job search? Graduating seniors are invited to attend this presentation on resources and strategies for achieving your first job. Suggestions will be offered to assist you in starting or maximizin your job search. Offered tonight from 6:30­


MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY•s TRADING April14 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 256,053,775 -0.12 to 247.73 S&P COMPOSITE -0.56 to 448.66 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +11.61 to 3455.64
UNCHANGED 
611 

GOLD 
+$0.50 to $338.40 oz 
SILVER -$.012 to $3.867 oz 
FORECAST Cloudy and cool today with a 100 percent chance of rain. Highs in the upper 50's. Cloudy tomorrow with 90 percent chance of rain. Highs in 50's. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  46  34  
Atlanta  64  59  
Bogota  69  51  
Cairo  88  59  
Chicago  49  31  
Cleveland  50  30  
Dallas  78  66  
Detroit  58  32  
ndianapolis  67  40  
Jerusalem  n  52  
London  55  41  
Los Angeles  81  56  
Madrid  59  41  
Minneapolis  50  28  
Moscow  36  28  
Nashville  77  51  
New York  63  41  
Paris  57  43  
Philadelphia  63  41  
Rome  61  50  
Seattle  53  42  
South Bend  58  40  
Tokyo  54  45  
Washington D.C.  64  41  


Buttafuoco indicted on rape charges 
•MINEOLA, N.Y. -Joseph Buttafuoco has been indicted on charges of raping Amy Fisher, the Long Island teen-ager now in prison for shooting his wife, a source said Wednesday. The indictment alleges that the 37 -year­old Buttafuoco had sex with Fisher in July 1991, a month before her 17th birthday, according to the source who spoke on condition of anonymity.Buttafuoco with charged by the Nassau County grand jury with several counts of third-degree rape, sodomy and endangering the welfare of a child, the source said. He was to surrender to Nassau County authorities Thursday.The investigation was reopened in February when a former Buttafuoco employee came forward to back Fisher's allegation that she and the auto body shop owner had had an affair. 
CAMPUS 

FellowshiB awarded toJacobs 
NOTRE DA E-Dennis Jacobs, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Notre Dame, has been named a 1993 Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellow by the Sloan Foundation in New York City. Ninety Sloan re­search fellowships, with unrestricted grants of $30,000 each, were given this year to outstanding young scientists and economists involved in basic scientific and technological research throughout the country. Jacobs, who earned his bachelor's degrees in chemistry and physics from the University of California at Irvine and his ?octorate in physical chemistry from Stanford University, 1s a chemical physics specialist. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1988. 
7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room. LaFortune. Presented by Career and Placement Services. 
• Second Annual War Law and Ethics seminar will take place on Saturday at 12:30 p.m. in the Pasquerilla Center. Topics to be discussed include the Just War Theory and possible U.S. intervention in Bosnia. Applications are available at teh CSC and the Navy ROTC offices. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
ln1912 the British luxury liner Titanic sank in the North Atlantic off Newfoundland. 

• 
In 1850 the city of San Francisco was incorporated. 

• 
In 1865 President Lincoln died, several hours after he was shot and wounded at Ford's Theater in D.C. 

• 
In 1892 General Electric, formed by the merger of the Edison Electric Light Co. and other firms, was incorporated. 

• 
In 1945 President Franklin D. Roosevelt was buried at the Roosevelt family home in Hyde Park, N.Y. 

• 
In 1985 South Africa said it would repeal laws prohibiting sex and marriage between whites and non-whites. 

• 
In 1989 students in Beijing launched a series of pro­democracy protests upon the death of former Communist Party leader Hu Yaobang. 



·-·h-· •T 

Thursday, April 15, 1993 The Observer page3 

Aerospace honor society Liddell offers business secrets 

awards seven scholarships 
Special to the Observer 
The selection of seven stu­dents for the 1993 Honor Un­dergraduate Student Awards has been completed by Sigma Gammu Tau, the National Aerospace Honor Society. 
Each year the society pre­sents a series of honor awards to the outstanding aerospace engineering undergraduate students in the United States and this year's winners include Notre Dame Senior Anthony Yang. 
Yang is the Ammon Andes National Award Winner and Great Lakes Region Award Winner. He will receive both a 
B.S. in Aerospace Engineering and a B.A. in Anthropology this spring. He has achieved a 3.92 GPA as a double major and ranks fourth out of 281 stu­dents in the College of Engi­neering. 

ULIUS 


___ s 




Reserved seats: $7. Students and senior citizen discounts are available Wed., Thu. and Sun. Tickets are available at the LaFortune 

Todos Estan lnvitados 
Ticket Office. MasterCard and 
All Are Welcome 
Visa orders call: Celebrante 
631-8128. Padre Don McNeill, c.s.c. 
gl 
Wed. April21 -Sat. April 24 at 8:10pm Sun. April 25 at 3:10pm (CNJ'US 

MNISW 

WASHINGTON HALL 
He has spent two summers working as an intern at the Boeing Commercial Airplane Company and conducted un­dergraduate research on nu­cleate boiling. He intends to continue his education and wants to address issues related to the role of technology and technological issues in society with emphasis on public policy. 
The students were chosen by a committee of three aerospace professionals representing academia, industry and gov­ernment. Nominations were submitted by 22 of the 49 active chapters of Sigma Gamma Tau. For his award, Yang will receive $400 plus a certificate and plaque. 
Students from Syracuse Uni­versity, Pennsylvania State University, North Carolina State University, University of Kansas, Oklahoma State Uni­versity, and San Diego State University were also awarded. 
by William Shakespeare 
By PAUL PEARSON News Writer 
Ellis Liddell of Atlanta en­couraged Notre Dame students Wednesday to conquer their fears and try their ideas in the business world. 
Liddell, President of Ellis Lid­dell Productions, a public man­agement firm, spoke on the topic of "Effective Economics: From Entrepreneurship to Community Investment." 
According to Liddell, one of the best ways to generate ideas is take what is unique about a person and making something out of that. "No one comes to the table with your experi­ences." 
A person needs a great deal of courage and self-esteem to make it as an entrepreneur, Liddell said. "You've got to be willing to put your butt on the line." 
The toughest part of getting an idea off the ground, accord­ing to Liddell, is sharing it with someone. "As long as (an idea) is in your head, it will stay there," he said. 
However, an idea should only be shared with "people who can see what you see ... (who can) see the gold at the end of the rainbow," Liddell said. This eliminates most of a person's friends and family members. "They love you, but they'll tell you the truth, even if it hurts." 
An entrepreneur's idea should also be reduced to its simplest elements, Liddell said. "Look at your idea and scale it down to the point where you can do it with little or no money." 
But in the end, an en­trepreneur needs the courage to take a risk on an idea, ac­cording to Liddell. "People will spend three or four dollars on the lottery, but most people won't spend five dollars on an idea they had." 
Liddell said that he was inter­ested in creating jobs in his community. Before he started his own firm, he used to earn a six-figure salary as a stockbro­ker. "It was a real comfort, but I wasn't creating jobs," he said. 
During the lecture, Liddell criticized America's minimum wage laws. Americans should "pay people based on how much money they generate. If someone is making a company $30 an hour, they should be paid $20 an hour. We have to look at this system (in the U.S.) and say, 'Maybe we need to change it if we want to stay on top of the world,"' he said. 
Liddell also advised students to do something "that will cre­ate a job for you while you're looking for a job," such as writ­ing a grant application while still in school. 
He also told students not to rely on a degree alone. In At­lanta, which has 17 colleges, there are people with doctoral degrees "who are working as a fry cook (at fast food restau­rants) while they're waiting for that job to come along," he said. 
Liddell's speech was spon­sored by the African-American 

r·-~~~~---------------­
., ­
page4 
King 
continued from page 1 
building departure after ver­dicts are announced. Salzman has said he has received 20 death threats because of his defense of Koon. 
A helicopter was seen prac­ticing landings on the court­house roof Wednesday, but Stone wouldn't say whether there are plans for a departure by helicopter. 


Fulbright 
continued from page 1 
go to graduate school in Japan and focus on the religions of Eastern Asia. 
"I was thrilled to receive the grant because I was making plans to go abroad to Japan anyway," said Ray. He has competed for the Notre Dame fencing team and has already spent some time in Japan when he went abroad his sophomore year. 
Holsinger has been selected to teach conversational English at a high school in Germany. He is a government major who has already spent a year abroad in Austria. 
"We are very happy with this year's Fulbright winners," said Professor Jim McAdams, who will take over as the head of the Notre Dame Fulbright program next year. "People should come up with research topics for this program." 
Two Notre Dame students were selected as Fulbright 
Scholars  last  year  and  
although  four  have  won  
Fulbrights this  this  year,  
McAdams  feels  that  more  

people should apply for the grant. 
"Notre Dame students have a great chance of being selected and it is a wonderful opportu­nity for a future career," he said. 

-~-------­
The Observer 


THE noTRE DAffiE FAffill Y 1/ InVITED... 
The Orange County (Calif.) Register via AP 
FORMER 
IP~®ID@~ J1@~ITIIDiffiJill1r~ 
Invited to Pizza Supper at 



BRUNO'S 
Thursday, April 15 
7:00 p.,m. 
Call Woody, 4-3502 for additional information 


: :::::::1 is a confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped material covering a variety ofstudent concerns. DIAL 631-7793 and ask for the name or number you wish to hear IlwllJt IiiW IlwllJt IiiW 1 Friendship Building 50 Understanding Eating Disorders 2 Types of Intimacy 51 Understanding Anorexia Nervosa 3 Physical Intimacy 52 Understanding Bulimia 5 Fighting Constructively 53 Compulsive Overeating 6 Expressing Negative Thoughts and Feelings 61 What is Therapy an How to Use It 7 Dealing With Constructive Criticism 65 Date Rape: How Men Can Prevent It 8 Dealing With Anger 66 Date Rape: Awareness lor Women 9 Understanding Jealousy and How to Deal With It 70 Infatuation or Love? 10 Avoiding Overresponsibility: How to Say "No" 83 How to Cope With a Broken Relationship 16 Becoming Open to Others 84 Death and Dying 18 Dating Skills 85 Understanding Grief 20 Female Homosexuality 90 Helping a Friend 21 Male Homosexuality 160 Early Signs of an Alcohol Problem 30 Anxiety and Possible Ways to Cope With It 161 Responsible Decisions About Drinking 32 How to Deal With Loneliness 402 Sell-Assertiveness 33 How to Handle Fears 412 Examples of Contact Building 34 Increasing Sell-Awareness 431 What is Depression? 35 Building Sell-Esteem and Confidence 432 How to Deal With Depression 36 The Value of Sell-Talk 433 Depression as a Lifestyle 37 Relaxation Exercises 478 Becoming Independent from Parents 38 Coping With Stress 479 Dealing With Alcoholic Parents 39 Female Sex Role-Changes and Stresses 491 Suicidal Crisis 40 Male Sex Role-Ghanges and Stresses 492 Recognizing Suicidal Potentials in Others 44 Learning to Accept Yourself 493 Helping Someone in a Suicidal Crisis The complete list oftapes is also avnilabk on page 3 ofyour Notre Dame/St. Marys telephone directory. Counseline is ·'' sponsored by the University Counseling Center. Forforther information or assistance, ca/1631-7336.  

Guide 
continued from page 1 

bigger every year," she added. 
John Murnick, chairman of the academic committee of the Princeton undergraduate stu­dent government, said their course book is somewhat dif­ferent from The Guide because they ask one student in each class to write a review of it. While they will publish some­thing like "This professor is the worst in the department, and he mumbles at the blackboard," they do not print un­substantiated claims like "the entire math department can't teach," he added. 
Students at Princeton take the course evaluations seriously, waiting to choose next 
Thursday, April 15, 1993 
semester's classes until the guide comes out. "Students look at it as the definitive in­formation about courses," Murnick said. The University has had to cancel a course which received a bad review because no one signed up for it, he added. 
Almost 300 people contribute to the Princeton guide, includ­ing an editor, assistant editors, department editors and re­viewers. Petrovic and Sara Skalicky, also a Guide co-chair, will form a committee when the evaluation sheets are com­pleted. 
Petrovic encouraged students to take take part in the evalua­tions "because it's for their benefit." So far, she said, "the students seem very positive about it." 

Thursday, April 15, 1993 The Observer page 5 
ND receives 


Twelve students honored with awards 
Special to The Observer 
1\velve Notre Dame students were honored with Student Leadership Awards at the Student Leadership Banquet Tuesday night. 
Recipients of the award were: Greg Butrus, Mara Fuller,Benjamin Gonring, Paul Kimes, Nicole Lamborne, Peter Matthews, Reynold Nesiba, Molly O'Neill, Megan Sullivan and Dan Wagner. 
Butrus served as the Student Body President until April 1. Following through on his campaign promise, Butrus and his administration was instrumental in the institution of study days. He also worked to bring the Prejudice Reduction Seminar to campus and served as the student representative on several campus committees. 
Fuller has volunteered in 
many organizations, including the South Bend Center for the Homeless and Dismas House. She has also served as a Sophomore Class Dorm representative, a Junior Class Service Committee member and is currently the service commissioner for Pasquerilla East. 
Gonring, a Keenan Hall resident, has been a leader in promoting dialogue on race relations and cultural diversity. His rector, Brother Bonaventure Scully credits him with being the driving force behind the upcoming Keenan Diversity Day. 
Kimes served in student government as the Executive Assistant to the Student Body President. He was also the first freshman ever to chair a Board of Trustees report. 
Lamborne helped to instill newly converted Pangborn Hall with a sense of dorm spirit. In 
SYRACUSE ABROAD 
~ 


AFRICA • AUS1RALIA • CZECH REPUBLIC • ENGLAND • FRANCE • GERMANY • HUNGARY • ISRAEL • ITALY • POLAND • SPAIN 
• 
Courses Taught in English and Host Country Language 

• 
SU Credit 


• 
Field Trips/Traveling Seminars 

• 
Internships 


• 
Study For A Semester, A Year, Or A Summer 


• Home Or Apartment Placements FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE 
Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 
trinocerous. dolly llama. bughaus. le fleur du bon. tuskin raider. beans and W' anne. indecision. point five. the lemmings. dissfunktion. tiempo Iatino. dead sea trolls. emily. severinsen. new art riot. riverhollom nightmare hand. chisel. amy's flah. the sister chain. 2­
10. mr head. the bovine solution. bother. jack and the hcanstalk. trinocerons. dolly llama. bughaua. le fleur du bon. Iuskin raider. beans.and Iii' anne. indecision. point five. the lemmings. dissfuriktion. tiempo Iatino. dead sea trolls. emily. seYerinsen. new art riot. riverhOttom nightmare band. chisel. amy's ·fiBh. the sister chain. 2­
10. mr head. the bovine solution. bother. jack and the heanstalk. trinocerous. dolly llama. bughaus. lc fleur du bon. tnskin raider. beans nnd Iii' anne. indecision. point five. the lemmings. dissfunkt.ion. tiempo Iatino. dend sea Lrolls. emil~·. severinsen. new at·L riot. riverbotlom nightmare hand. chiSel. amy's fish. the sister chain. 2­
10. mr head. the bovine solution. bother. jack and the l>eanstnlk. trinocerous. dolly llama. hughnus. le fleur du bun. Luskin raider. beans and lil' anne. indechdon. point 
neATTLEdioFkt'f"fiE"8iiiVns 
addition to her work in the dorm, she has been involved with Saint Hedwig's, served as a pre-med volunteer at St. Joseph's Medical Center, and worked as a tutor for children in South Bend. 
Matthews was a major contributor to WSND's most successful fund drive ever. During that drive, the radio station raised over $5000 which will help keep WSND on the air during summer and academic breaks. 
Nesiba is an active member of the Graduate Student Union (GSU}, has served as the GSU Social Officer, has chaired the GSU Orientation Committee, and has most recently served on the GSU Quality of Life Committee. 
Outgoing Student Body Vice­President O'Neill had used her office not only to serve the student body, but also to raise funds for the Center for the Homeless. Through the "Irish Impact" poster project, she has helped to raise thousands of dollars for the homeless. 
"I can think of no one who is more dedicated to improving the world around her than Molly," said Mike Griffin, former Student Government Chief of Staff. "She has worked tirelessly on many projects this year." 
Sullivan worked as the Executive Coordinator for Intel­lectual Life. She coordinated the Iceberg Debates, the regis­tration drive and mock election in the fall, and served on the steering committee for the Prejudice Reduction Workshop. 
Swanson has been a member of Notre Dame's Multi-cultural Council for the past two years and is a co-president of Notre Dame's NAACP. Swanson also served on Fr. Malloy's Task Force on Evangelization, Pastoral Ministry, and Social Values. 
As last year's leprechaun, Wagner, has made many special appearances, given speeches, and signed countless autographs for fans during the last two years. Wagner has also volunteered at the Logan Center. 
Witt has worked in promoting campus awareness of the issue of rape through her involvement as the chair of the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE}. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
Performance cancellation! 
Due to illness 
Sanford Sy{van 
lias fuu{ to Caned liis sclieaufu{ peiformance at 9{¢re ']]arne on 
Thursday, April15, 19931 8:00p.m. Since it is so late in the school year, we are not able to reschedule him for now. 
Lectures in Romanticism James Soderholm 
University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
"Surrender Dorothy: 'Tintern Abbey' and the Dysfunction of Criticism at the Present Time" 
Friday, April 16 3:30p.m. 224 DeBartolo 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:00 , 9:45 
$200,000 donation 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $200,000 grant for the Saint Gaerard Foundation of Clearwater, Fla., for its Jacques Maritain Center. 
The grant will support a vari­ety of activities underscoring the importance of Saint Thomas Aquinas and the mag­isterium of the Catholic Church, according to James Mooney, president of the foundation. 
Ralph Mcinerny, Michael Grace Professor of Medieval Studies and director of the Maritain Center, said that the grant will make possible the establishment of a dissertation year graduate fellowship and a research fellowship for Thomistic projects; production and distribution of a brochure drawing the attention of un­dergraduate students to the Thomistic courses offered in the University's philosophy de­partment; a two-week confer­ence of Thomsit scholars to be held at Notre Dame this sum­mer; and center-sponsored faculty conferences with visit­ing lecturers during the 1993­94 academic year. 
"The money will also enable the Maritain Center to expand its efforts to become an archive of the Thomistic revival in North America," Mcinerny said, adding that the "golden era" of that revival, triggered by Pope Leo XIII's 1879 en­cyclical, "Aeterni Patris," is represented by the career of Jacques Maritain, a French Catholic thinker who taught at Notre Dame and had strong personal and intellectual ties to the University. 
Papers of Maritain and those of two other prominent Thomist philosophers, Yves Simon and Charles DeKonick, are already housed in the cen­ter. 
In addition, Mcinerny said, the grant will underwrite the inaguration of a projected 20 volume edition of Maritain's writings to be published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 





ST.IDIARD'S 
H A L L F 0 R C Y 
Professor Igor Grazin 
Former Peoples' Deputy of the USSR 
speaks on 

"Yeltsin And The Future of Russia" 

Tonight 7:00p.m. 
at St. Edward's Hall 
r----~-------~--~----­
page6 The Observer Thursday, April 15,1 993 

Russia's money, leadership problems continue 
US, partners rally behind Yeltsin 
TOKYO (AP) -The seven strongest industrial nations opened an emergency meeting on Russian aid with a U.S. proposal Wednesday to spend $4 billion on converting state­run factories to private ownership. 
Japan also detailed its first major aid package for Moscow -$1.8 billion in loans and grants to bolster President Boris Yeltsin. The Japanese hope that if Yeltsin wins an April 25 referendum on his leadership, he will come to Tokyo in May and arrange the return of four islands seized at the close of World War II. 
Other parts of an overall $30 billion aid package are expected to fall in place during the two-day meeting of foreign and finance ministers from the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 
A senior Italian foreign ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Group of Seven's program would include a $500 million fund to help promote small­and mid-size businesses in Russia. The fund would be put together with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 
Russian Foreign Minister An­drei V. Kozyrev, who is in Tokyo to keep an eye on the deliberations, held out hope for Japan it would recover the four sparsely populated islands in the Kilril chain. 
Making preliminary arrange­ments for Yeltsin's visit, he told the TBS television network: "The subject of the territorial problem will naturally be on the agenda." 
The islands are a lingering symbol of Japanese nationalism, and the dispute has kept Japan and Russia from signing a peace treaty. But at the urging of its Western partners, the government of Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa put the issue aside to play a prominent role in the Yeltsin bailout effort. 
Germany, which already has provided about $39 billion in aid to Russia on its own, has been pushing all its Group of Seven partners to do more to prop up the former Soviet republic. 
The privatization fund proposed by the United States would be launched with a $500 million U.S. contribution. The other six nations would be expected to provide $1.5 billion, and the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development would add $2 billion. 
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said the fund would free Russia's central bank of 
MOSCOW (AP) -Exuding confidence at a Kremlin news conference, President Boris Yeltsin said Wednesday he will win Russia's nationwide refer­endum. But he promised to re­sign if voters support parlia­ment instead. 
Yeltsin, more optimistic about his chances after what he called a successful campaign swing to Siberia, also outlined an accelerated market reform program and a proposed new constitution that would replace the Soviet-era Congress. 
The session with Russian and foreign reporters was part of Yeltsin's stepped-up campaign to win support in the ref­erendum, which is designed to settle his power struggle with the Congress of People's Deputies. 
Yeltsin said the choice is be­tween the old and new. 
"The old system, firmly rooted in the bureaucratic apparatus and old structures, would not let go, would not surrender property to the citizens of Russia," Yeltsin said. 

People of Kuwait give warm welcome to Bush 
KUWAIT (AP) -Whirling sword dancers, flower-bearing girls and thousands of cheering children greeted George Bush on Wednesday as Kuwaitis launched "Operation Love Storm" to welcome the man who helped liberate their country. 
The party started as soon as a chartered blue and white Kuwaiti Airways jetliner landed, bringing the former president, his wife Barbara and other guests on his first visit to the emirate. 
The thousands lining the highway from the airport to the city included schoolchildren given a holiday for the occasion. They wa_ved small U.S. flags or balloons and others held signs. One read, "Welcome Boosh." 
Thtl former president who organized Kuwait's liberation from Iraqi troops in 1991 took on a rock star aura as police and teachers restrained chil­dren from running out to try to touch his car. 
At a dinner hosted by Kuwait's ruler, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al­Sabah, Bush was presented with the Mubarak al-Kabeer (Mubarak the Great) medal, Kuwait's highest civilian award. 
The medal is named for a former emir, Mubarak al­Sabah, who ruled Kuwait from 1896 until his death in 1915 and is revered for taking the first steps toward making the nation an autonomous state. 
Sheik Jaber told Bush the medal was "in gratitude and 
appreciation for your enormous efforts in liberating Kuwait and your services toward world peace and understanding." 
The emir also paid tribute to the 541,000 U.S. military per­sonnel who served in Operation Desert Storm, the allied opera­tion to oust Iraqi troops from Kuwait in 1991. 
Bush, smiling broadly, told the emir: "Mere words cannot express how proud I feel to be here with you on the hallowed ground of Kuwait. ... Thank you again for honoring me and, indeed, my country this evening." 
When Bush arrived for the three-day visit, the airport was bedecked with American and Kuwaiti flags. Sword dancers whirled to beating drums. 
After walking along a red carpet to meet his host, Bush hugged and kissed two young girls who presented bouquets. 
The Congress, stacking the cards against Yeltsin, included four questions in the referen­dum: confidence in the presi­dent, approval of his economic policies, early presidential and parliamentary elections. 
It also said passage requires the approval of more than half the electorate, including those who don't cast ballots, which would severely hamper Yeltsin's chances. The Constitutional Court has been asked to rule on that requirement. 
Yeltsin is urging Russians to vote "yes" on all four questions, although that would put him at risk in presidential balloting. 
Public opinion surveys indi­cate moderate support for Yeltsin, mixed opinions about his reforms and very strong sentiment for early parliamen­tary elections. 
Yeltsin said that if voters ex­press no confidence in him and reject early parliamentary elections, "The president will resign." 

"Faith and Intellectual Life Coming Together at Notre Dame" 

Knowing God, 
Christ, and Nature A Symposium 
"To what extent would or should an epistemology adequate for science approximate an epistemology suitable for Christian spirituality, affirmation, and knowledge?" 
TODAY'S PROGRAM, THURSDAY, APRIL 15 
(Except as indicated, all liturgies will be in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Church and all sessions in the Continuing Education Center) 
Sessi011 I 8:00-9:30 AM OWr.TomSeUie, Pllilo>aploy.U.W.nily<(G"'... Opettittg Pra~r tutd Wdcomt: 
Al•ln PlanUnp, DJ"nclor, UrrJcrfor Plti/osopfty o[Rdigioo. NDlre Dame 
'~iaol~...,.. "ByW!xrn.Uihqo•n"rllde': OJNtimily .00Cosml08)' in"" 131h Cc:mury'" MvkD• .Jordan,MediewJ/lrutii""',NoboDome 
Suri0112: 10:00-11:15 AM Chair: J•me1 R. l..angford, Director, Ulli\Jitrsiry of Notre Dame Press 
"Hiltorical PcrspcctiYCa-Sowuiirl&• and Options Through Modernity .. Mkluotl J. Buckley, SJ, 
Theology. 8oS1011 College 
Sessi011 J 1:00-2:.45 PM Cltair: N•nc£y Murphy, Plrilosoplty, F.JI~r TMologiaJ SemiltaTJ 
..L.oncrpn Uld lhc Mcuurcll ofGod: WhctiJ:rThon:""' OlriltimMcuurcll in God'o Preocncc in lhc Wald'' Palrkk A.llttlan, S.J., Philosophy, Georgelowo 
U11iwnity c~,.lalor: Joseph A.. Kormnch•k, Rdigi011 &. ReligioiU Etb.cal;o,., Catholic Ufliwrsity 
Suri011 4 3:15·5:00,.. ClttJir: l•n G. S.rbour,Re/igi011 &. Sc~~~ee, TecJ.,wlogy, dNi Society, Carle1011 College 
"'lbc Endo of Mon Uld tho l'utu"' of God"" J•ntl Mllrtln Sookke, Divioity Scloool. Cambridge U.Uw:rsity Contntefllator: Charle..t Misner, Physit:s, u,.iversiry ofMtJryloNJ 

Sole1011 MaSI 5:15-6:15,.. Cdt:brdlll aNJ 1/om.ilist: 
Rc•. Theodore M. llesburgh, C.S.C .• President EnEritus, Notn: Dune MKSic by ll1e Litwgical Choir 
S~ by: The c..-for Phii<JOqlby ofRcli&ioo, N= Dome, in~ wilh tho Vlllicm Obo:nolory; tho Reilly c..-for Scicnco, Toclrnology, Uld Valueo, N""' Dome; The CdJc&e ofScicnco, N""' Dam:; The Offia= ofCompus Minimy, N= Dome; Uld lhc Carmilb:: oo Scic:mc Uld 111111Wl Valuco of!he Ncional OJnf=na: ofc..holic Bioiq» 
Free to Notre Dame/St. Mary's Community 
(Walk-in,No RegistrationRequiredfor Notre Dame. St. Mary's Students, Staff, Faculty, and Rcligtous) 
1[1ANSFE[I S11JDEN1S 
1[1ANSFE[I S11JDEN1S 



1[1ANSFE[I S11JDEN1S 
Sign up for Transfer Orientation Staff in the Foster Room in LaFortune. 
7PM THURSDAY, APRIL 15. 
1993 SENIOR INFORMAL -This Friday, April 16th­
Tickets on Sale at LaFortune Desk 
• Full Sit down Polish Wedding Banquet • Two Great Bands for Dancing 
• Bughaus • Dissfunktion • 
At St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Ave. at Scott St. 
some of the burden of converting oil, gas and other 

"The Best Party 
major industries to private 

$15 Single 
• Doors open at 7:00 p.m.
control. That would save 
of the Year"thousands of jobs and reduce 
• Dinner promptly at 7:30 p.m.
inflation caused by the bank's issuance of easy credit, he 

$25 Couple Be There! 
said. 
Thursday, April 15, 1993 The Observer page 7 

William Friend, Bishop of Shreveport, speaks at the Center for Continuing Education. Friend was one of many speakers in the "Knowing God, Christ, and Nature in the Post-positivistic Era" symposium running from April14-17. 
_:M;_ SAINT MAIN"S COLLEGE 1'\0RtftU CfnTfR fOR ll1E <tl QTS SATURDAY, APRIL 17 AT 8P.M., O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM MARGIE GILLIS SOLO DANCE NO ONE COMES CLOSE TO HER EXTRAORDINARY ARTISTRY AS ASOLO PERFORMER-SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE COMPLIMENTARY SEATS FOR SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS* SM'S-ND COMMUNITY $3  
•while quantities last. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday. Visa, MasterCard and Discover orders by phone at 219/284-4626.  
. t!t--­Samt Mary's Colle~ NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  

enta 

•1/4 
Mile from Library 

•Brand 
New Appliances 

•2 
Bedrooms 

•2 
Bathrooms •Security System 


•Large Balconies CALL Now FoR APPOINTMENTS 
272-0691 
Going Quickly $660°0 er month 
At least 30 injured in plane crast1 
GRAPEVINE, Texas (AP) ­The landing gear on an Ameri­can Airlines DC-10 jetliner col­lapsed during landing in a thunderstorm Wednesday, and at least 30 of the 202 people aboard were injured while fleeing down inflatable slides. 
The most serious injury was to a 79-year-old woman who suffered a broken neck and was hospitalized in serious condition. All but seven injured people were released from hospitals by late afternoon. 
Passengers on Flight 102 from Honolulu said the pilot warned about turbulent weather but reported no problems during the 7 a.m. approach to Dallas­Fort Worth International Airport. 
"The landing wasn't too bad, then he hit the brakes real 
Americans oppose abortion litmus test for supreme court nominees 
NEW YORK (AP) -Most Americans want President Clinton to ignore a potential nominee's position on abortion when he fills the impending vacancy on the Supreme Court, according to an Associated Press poll. 
On a more general question, 54 percent said Clinton should consider a person's legal qualifications and background only, as opposed to 41 percent who said the president also should consider how the nominee might vote on major issues. 
hard," said passenger Hank Lindsaey of Honolulu. "Then we skidded onto the mud and the plane tilted to its left." 
The plane came to rest par­tially on a taxiway with its nose and left wing plowed into thick mud. The nose gear and left under-wing· landing gear had collapsed. The 189 passengers and 13 crew members slid down escape slides. 
No cause has been deter­mined, American spokesman AI Becker said. 
Becker said one of the control towers reported "smoke and flame coming from the wheel well." Passengers also said they saw flames on the jet's left side. "At first the people who rushed out were afraid to go off the wing on the slide. It was too 
steep," Lindsaey said. "When we saw the fire, we said 'It's not too steep.' I'd look and '.'"1n, look and run." 
Thunderstorms were rolling across the region, and some passengers said they believed the jet had· been struck by lightning 10 minutes before the landing. 
"We had a bolt of something that hit us when we were air­borne," said Faye Evans of Baltimore. 
Airline officials said they didn't know if weather was a factor. 
The airport, one of the na­tion's busiest, was closed for a short time and flights were de­layed throughout the day. 
National Transportation Safety Board investigators were at the site. 

A majority, 57 percent, said Clinton should not ask his ap­pointee's views on abortion. 
Clinton has said he will not directly ask any potential nominee his or her position on abortion. But he has also said he wants a justice who will respect the right to privacy, an argument underpinning the right to an abortion. 
In the poll, 72 percent said Clinton should not consider a potential nominee's position on abortion. Fifteen percent said he should consider only someone who generally favors 
Happv 21n B-Dav 
@3CDlli 
U11~0llig 
Get Ready To Do The Wave 
Bumbo! 

•Washer 
& Dryer Units 

•Large 
Closets 

•Covered 
Parking 


abortion rights, while 11 percent said he should restrict his search to opponents of abortion. The remaining 2 percent were not sure. 
The poll of 1,003 adults was taken by phone April 7-10 by ICR Survey Research Group of Media, Pa., part of AUS Con­sultants. Results have a margin 
of  sampling  error  of  3  
percentage points, p lus  or  
minus.  

Clinton is selecting a re­placement for Byron White, who has announced his re­tirement for the end of the current court term in June or July. It will be the first Supreme Court appointment for a Democratic president since the Johnson administration in the 1960s. 
Although interest groups are lobbying Clinton to increase the court's diversity, that does not seem to be a priority for many people. 
Only 12 percent in the poll said Clinton should appoint a woman. Five percent said he should choose a man, and 82 percent said the nominees' sex doesn't make any difference. 
The country was almost evenly split on whether in­creasing the representation of minorities, such as blacks or Hispanics, should be an im­portant consideration: 45 per­cent said yes, 49 percent no, the rest not sure. 
The poll showed men and women thinking alike about the nominee's sex not making a difference. But women were more likely to say minority representation was important. 
There also was a gender gap on using issues as litmus tests, with 60 percent of men but only 48 percent of women saying Clinton should consider the candidate's qualifications and background only. 
Correction 
In a page one headline yesterday, The Observer inaccurately said that study days were proposed for Saint Mary's. Rather, Student Academic Council issued a proposal that encouraged professors not to give tests during the week prior to fmals. An earlier proposal for study days at Saint Mary's was rejected by the faculty. The Observer regrets the error. 

oage 8 The Observer Thursday, April 15, 1993 
South African workers begin strike 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -In an outpouring of black rage, millions of work­ers went on strike Wednesday to protest the slaying of black leader Chris Hani. At least four people were killed and hun­dreds wounded as blacks bat­tled police. 
The worst clash was in the black township of Soweto, where police fired on marchers outside the main police station. Hospital spokeswoman Adri Potgieter said three people died, five were critically wounded and 259 suffered mi­nor wounds. 
Police claimed they fired be­cause protesters were hurling rocks, but witnesses said most of the crowd was calm and had started to leave the area. 
Among the dead was African National Congress official Sam Ntobane, the black group said. 
Police and soldiers fired shotguns, rubber bullets and tear gas at looters who ram­paged through shops in Cape Town and torched vehicles. A hand grenade exploded and in­jured 10 soldiers, and medical officials said a man was killed and about 150 people were wounded in the looting. 
Looting also broke out in Durban and Pietermaritzburg in Natal province, and in Port Elizabeth to the south. 
Pope asks nuns to leave their convent at Auschwitz 
WARSAW, Poland (AP) -A group of Carmelite nuns are preparing to leave their con­vent at the former Nazi Auschwitz death camp after an appeal by Pope John Paul II, a priest said Wednesday. 
The pope's letter Wednesday follows more than a year of tension between the Roman Catholic Church and Jewish groups, which want to preserve the camp as a Holocaust memorial. 
Bishop Tadeusz Pieronek told the PAP news agency that the nuns "accepted the Holy Father's will with complete submission." 
The New York-based World Jewish Congress said Wednes­day that the nuns agreed to leave the convent within a few weeks, fulfilling a 1987 pact with Jewish leaders. 
But a Catholic official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the nuns would move in a matter of days, not weeks. 
The World Jewish Congress threatened to boycott next week's commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising -the rebellion of Polish Jews against Nazi occupiers -unless Catholic leaders expedited the closing of the convent. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, Vice President AI Gore and thousands of Holocaust survivors plan to attend the ceremonies, which begin Sunday. 
The World Jewish Congress' spokesman, Elon Steinberg, said Bishop Tadeusz Rakoczy, whose diocese includes Auschwitz, notified the group Tuesday that the deal was complete. 
The convent, which houses 14 nuns, was installed in 1984 in a building where the Nazis stored 
Hani, head of the South African Communist Party and one of the ANC's most popular leaders, was assassinated out­side his home Saturday. A white right-winger has been charged in the murder. 
Across much of the country Wednesday, mourners ex­pressed their sadness by at­tending peaceful memorial services and marches, heeding the ANC's call for a one-day strike. 
"It was one of the best-at­tended stayaways ever," said economist Miekie Dames. Business groups said as many as 75 percent of the nation's 6 million black workers were on strike, meaning a possible $160 million loss to the economy. 
Black and white leaders are struggling to prevent anger over Hani's killing from derailing talks on ending apartheid and giving the black majority the vote. The govern­ment and the ANC have said they will press ahead with talks. 
"We could have ended up with a much worse situation," said ANC Secretary-General Cyril Ramaphosa. He warned that if negotiations did not speed up, "worse could happen." 
President F.W. de Klerk called Wednesday night for a meeting with ANC president Nelson Mandela as soon as possible. 
Zyklon-B gas that was used to exterminate Auschwitz prisoners. About 1.5 million prisoners -mostly Jews ­died at Auschwitz. 
The pope sent a letter to the nuns Wednesday stating "it is the will of the Church that you move to another location" in the town of Oswiecim, the Pol­ish name for Auschwitz, PAP reported. 
Catholic leaders signed an agreement in 1987 to move the convent and build a replace­ment nearby. When the project was delayed, Jews accused the church of breaking its word. 
The convent's new quarters, about 500 yards outside the camp, is not complete. 
He said an additional 3,000 troops and police would be sent to combat unrest, bolstering some 23,000 on the streets Wednesday. 
''What happened in South Africa today cannot be tolerated in any civilized country," de Klerk said. 
In Washington, the State De­partment advised U.S. citizens to postpone non-essential travel to South Africa until after the mourning period, scheduled to end Sunday. 
Two whites were shot and killed and another injured Tuesday night in the Transkei black homeland, police said. Two black men were killed Wednesday in shooting inci­dents in Johannesburg that were not clearly linked to the Hani protests. 
At one of the biggest memorial services, about 20,000 people squeezed into Soweto's small Jabulani Stadium, where Mandela pleaded for calm. 
"I appreciate that our young people are very angry because their hero has been killed," he said as the crowd surged dan­gerously toward the small stage. But "to return to violence only means more innocent people are going to continue dying." 

CHRISTMAS IN APRIL VOLUNTEERS! Christmas is coming this Saturday, April 17th. 
Please Remember to : 
-Report to Stepan Center at 7:30 a.m. 
-Wear old & warm clothing 
-Bring your waiver & map 
When you are dropped off at the Broadway Christian Church, please report to your "Assigned" House! Many thanks to all of the Notre Dame volunteers! Without your help this great project would not happen! 
Weather forecast for Saturday, April 17th: 
Sunny-88 degrees (Not) 
SEE You SATURDAY! 
South African violence 
Millions of blacks went on strike across the country sparking violence and looting in at least two cities to protest the assassination of African National Congress leader Chris Hani 
AMNESTY INTERNATiONAl "Stop The +-late" CoJI\ce~t FiEld HousE MAll 
Thursday, April 15 fEATURiNCj: 4,] p.M. 
EMily, CHisEl & OTHERS 
Rain Date: Monday, April 19 
~\~c;roN cou V~ Cal/255-7777 ~J> 
Do vou have the summer time school blues?? Come live at Remington Court during summer school, and relax in luxury between classes. We have junior one bedrooms that will give the privacy ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We have models open daily-come out and take a look! 
Located on Main Street between McKinley and Edison 
------~-~-~------·-----~-----------------------------------------­
Thursday, April 15, 1993 The Observer page 9 
Suspended cop arrested in revenge triple homicide 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -A shooting at about midnight policeman afraid he would be Tuesday and called police. He fired for allegedly assaulting a was hospitalized in satisfactory teenager walked into an auto condition Wednesday. body shop where the youth Suspended police officer worked, said "You're going to Robert Sabetta, 23, of Cranston, die" and fatally shot him and was arrested at gunpoint about two others, police said. 3 1/2 hours after the shooting at 
A fourth youth was wounded. Wilson's Auto Enterprises in A fifth escaped injury by hiding Foster, a rural town of about under a car. · 4,000 people in northwest 
The wounded youth ran about Rhode Island. two blocks to a house after the Sabetta was expected to be 
Anthony Alfidi Dr. Ani Aprahamian 
un~]un Gapasin ennifer Avegno 
Ben Gonring 
Rev. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. Peter Beery Patti Baniewicz 
Bridget Graham Cyndi Belmarez 
Elizabeth Groppe~Sniegocki Kathleen Biddick 
ohn Groppe~Sniegocki Dr. ]ay Brandenberger 
Laura Guyer Thomas M. Brennan 
Kerry Hagan Gregory Butrus 
Michael W. Halloran Dr. Carolyn M. Callahan 
Kathleen Hohenleitner Kiernan Cressy 
Krista Hood Eric Cunningham 
Ellen Hujarski Prof. ]ames P. Danehy 
Rhonda Jackson Kathryn L. Davenport 
Ivonne Justus William]. Dohar, C.S.C. 
Prof. Conrad Kellenberg Rita]. Donley 
David Kinney Professor Alan Dowty 
William W. Kirk Isaac Duncan III 
Adele Lanan~Updike Melissa Ertl 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F. 
osef Evans 
Annie Linehan 
Prof. Stephen Fallon 
Louise Litzinger Amy Fleisher 
Dr. George A. Lopez Maria M. Fuentes 
Cecilia Lucero 
arraigned Wednesday in Provi­Kettelle said. He said Sherman said. "I think he always wanted dence District Court on three lost a couple of teeth. to be a police officer and it counts of first-degree murder Sabetta, a Foster police officer meant everything to him. When and one count of assault with for two years, was suspended he was indicted for the alleged intent to murder, said Stephen without pay a day later and assault, I think it affected him White, a spokesman for the faced trial in October on a greatly." state attorney general's office. charge of assault with a deadly Sabetta's gun was confiscated 
One of the dead youths was weapon, Kettelle said. He was when he was suspended, the Frank Sherman, 16. Sabetta free on $10;ooo personal rec­chief said. "What can you do? I was accused of striking Sher­ognizance. took away his service revolver, man in the face with a flashlight "It bothered him a lot because the judge issued a no-contact during a traffic stop Jan. 9, if he was convicted he couldn't order, but you can't control an Foster Police Chief Donald be a police officer," Kettelle individual," Kettelle said. 
Photos reveal carjacking victim 
ELLICOTT CITY, Md. (AP) -A Bernard Miller, 17, is being her 22-month-old daughter, jury was shown photographs tried as an adult on murder, Sarina, to her first day of Wednesday of the body of a kidnapping, robbery and felony preschool Sept. 8 when the woman who was allegedly theft charges in the carjacking, carjacking occurred. The forced from her car at gunpoint which prompted Congress and carjackers later dropped Sarina last year and dragged 1 1/2 many states to pass laws by the side of the road miles to her death after her dealing with the violent form of unharmed. arm became entangled in a seat auto theft. Rodney Soloman, 27, Police say Miller and Solomon belt. faces trial later on the same were roaming Savage, an 
Several jurors looked away charges. affluent suburb between from the 30-by-40 inch photos, Baltimore and Washington, in which showed Pam Basu's body Miller and Soloman have each search of a car after a stolen wrapped in barbed wire and pleaded innocent and told Cadillac they were riding in ran wearing only a ripped shirt. police that the other was out of gas. The carjackers had driven the responsible for the carjacking. BMW against a fence to Mrs. Basu, a 34-year-old In testimony Wednesday, dislodge Mrs. Basu, police said. research chemist, was driving Robert Hicks said he saw the 
The Department Of Music Presents 
Christine Rutledge & Darlene Catello In a faculty 
o/io(a ani :J{arpsicfwri ~cita( 
Performing 
r.Bacli 's (jamb a Sonatas 
Sunday, April18, 1993,2:00 p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public 




Michael MacDonald 
ames P. Malloy 
im Malloy 
Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
Kelly Martin 
Vincett F. Mcaloon SPQR 
Elizabeth McAvoy 
Prejudice ~ a judgement or 
ulie McKay 
are known. 
Don McNeill, C.S.C.
Bigotry ~ holding blindly and 
Frank Merrill
intolerantly to a particular creed or opinion. 
Laura Merritt Racism ~ a doctrine or teaching 
Sr. Nancy Miller, O.S.F. without scientific support that 
George Molinsky
claims to find racial differences in 
Alex Montoya 
character, intelligence, etc., that 
Dennis K. Moore
asserts the superiority of one race over another or others and seeks 
Peter B. Mulcrone to maintain the supposed purity 
Roger Mullins of a race or races. 
Beth Murray
Stereotype ~ a fixed or 
Katie Norianconventional notion or 
Christina Novak 
conception of a person, group or idea and allowing for no 
Brian O'Donnell 
individuality or critical 
Prof. Patricia A. O'Hara judgement. 
ennie O'Hea 
Sheila M. McDaniel opinion formed before the facts 

attack while riding in a pickup that pulled behind Mrs. Basu's car at an intersection. Hicks testified two men were hitting the driver through the open window. The younger man ran to the passenger side and kicked and pushed her out of the car, he said. The woman jumped to her feet and reached into the car to continue struggling with one of the men. The car sped off with the woman still hanging on, Hicks said.  
Kelly O'Neill  
Peter Obringer  
Marly Ogren Iris L. Outlaw  
Dr. Erskine A. Peters Professor Philip L. Quinn  
Ric Schafer  
Timothy Schenck  
Dr. Roger A. Schmitz Sister Angela Schwer, VSC  
Professor ]ames Seckinger Thomas L. Shaffer  
ohn Simon  
Katherine Slover Dr. Roland B. Smith, ]r.  
Margaret Strantz Nancy Thomas  
Bill Updike Betty jean Valdez Ralph R. Vogel Rev. Richard Warner C.S.C.  ~ 1 J  
Kerry Yetter Seung Beam Yu Michael T. Zimmer  

Ever since this nation was founded--on principles of equality and tolerance-Americans of goodwill from every race and economic class have battled against the ugliness and injustice represented by the words defined above. 
Here in Michiana, in 1986 a group of people banded together as Community Allies in this fight against racism and the misguided attitudes that feed it. Included among these people were members of the Notre Dame community. 
Our campus is no refuge from, nor is our community immune to the problems of racism. That is why we now invite the men and women of Notre Dame to join in our effort. 
The recently-formed University Committee on Cultural Diversity has taken a Pledge Against Racism. Our pledge is two-fold: To foster and encourage communication and 
understanding among people of all races, and to oppose, individually and as a group, all manifestations of racism, prejudice, bigotry and stereotyping. Our names are above. Won't you add your voice to our pledge by returning the attached coupon? There is absolutely no obligation--except the respect each of us owes to our fellow human beings. 
~~~~itt;rTd~'fs;i{~{p;j~dk~ big;tr"y~~i~-a~d'"';rer';o'tyP'i~ ';nd to-;;;;.rt;~ha~c; ;cTalu~d-;r;~di~ ~~~ ~;;u~iry~"N~;e-;dcl-l 1my name to this pledge to be published in The Observer. 1 
:  Name:  :  
lsend To:  Address:  I  
I Racism Pledge 1306 Main Building ~~r~~~·.!,N_J~~ __  C. /S /Z. .lty tate lp. _____________P~~~d~~ ~~c~e~i~ ~ !!t:_O.!:,s~v;:  : J  


Students must be aware of Catholic character before criticizing University 
Dear Editor: 
My understanding of Notre Dame and the traditions and customs of the University were well known to me from the be­ginning of my memory. I am not a product of a "Notre Dame family," nor did any of my relatives attend this Univer­sity-my University. I am not an "active" Catholic but I did attend Catholic educational in­stitutions, including my under­graduate college, which all had pros and cons as does every school. 
When I decided to pursue graduate study I immediately focused on Notre Dame. I did so because I felt that an environ­ment involving the values, pur­pose and the significance of academic as well as human character demanded here would provide me with the progression, both professionally and personally, to attain my goals. 

I wanted to be part of the Notre Dame community knowing fully of all the expec­tations that would be put upon me. I was elated in receiving an acceptance letter that required a profound effort on my behalf in attaining. I resigned from a very secure and financially re­warding position to begin my experience at Notre Dame. 
The reason for this letter is that I do not understand why anyone would enter an institu­tion that had ideals or require­ments that one did not agree with or found personally in­comprehensible. The University of Notre Dame and its Catholic status is known world-wide, especially by a student interested in applying for ad­mission. 
I feel that if you support ho­mosexual rights or abortion, or have an abhorrence for pari­etals or Catholic teaching, and your feelings are so strong about it, then you should look in the mirror for an arena to complain and object instead of every campus publication and administrative body. Remember that you chose to attend this fine University and are fortunate enough to be a part of this community of which many only wish to be a part of. 
For the individuals who had no choice and had guns held to your heads all the way to South Bend, please disregard. 
James Lucot Jr. 
O'Hara-Grace 
March 6, 1993 
University needs to be open during lunch 
Dear Editor: 
This is an open letter to all administrators and their secre­taries: 
As students, we take classes that occupy our mornings and afternoons. For the most of us. we take our lunch break around 12 noon. This is par­ticularly true on Tuesdays and Thursdays, when we have a break from 12:15-1:15. lienee, our "free time" in the day is usually around noon. 
At the same time, we have many errands to run on a fre-
DOONESBURY 

quent basis that involve Uni­versity administrators and their secretaries, such as getting an approval from a department, seeing the registrar, clearing a student account, turning in financial aid forms, and so forth. Being free from classes around noon, many students wish to run these errands during this time. 
However. most of these offices are closed for lunch and will "re-open" at 1 p.m. However, many students are tied up in classes at this time and cannot run their very important errands. 
As a student, I ask all admin­istrators and their secretaries to consider re-scheduling their lunch hour to a later time, per­haps 1 or 2 p.m. 
This way, more students could complete any errands they may have. At the same time, administrators and their secretaries could enjoy a less­crowded hour. 
Thank you. 

Gene Sheikh 
Cavanaugh Hall 
AprilS, 1993 
Thursday, April 15, 1993 

Thursday's Verse 
"'· 

For My Brother 
This is my prayer for you, my brother, that you will learn to soar; 
to fly with the wings of wild birds which sing in the summer sky, swaying in the ocean's breeze, 
sim~le, 
alive free; 

that you never have to deny who you are 
or where you have been, or defend yourself now for the mistakes you made then; 
that you have the courage to be yourself, for when you are just that, it is clear that your heart is golden. 
I love you, my brother. I pray that you learn from your mistakes. Be one who gives, instead of takes, and then you will be free. 
Oanlelle De Bow Knott Hall 

Thursday's Verse 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, Indiana. 46556 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
SIR!tuHER£ HAV£3 YaJ eceN'r 
I 

NO,Bl!TOVL.Y Be­CA/J5£3 AN EAJ<JH MOVeR EJROite fX)IAJN lA'3TNI6HT. 
v_,_.._ / 
O 
0 
Yl3. 5/R.. E3iJT TH&cmBS HAV& /.£FT. Ail.­&XCEPTc;.u;R.. I leTHER IN ON THe Pf.JJN. 
IHA070, 
5/R. SHe 
WAN757D PtAYM!3. 
\ 

"Whoever is happy will make others happy too. He who has courage and faith will never perish in misery." 
Anne Frank 

Have faith. Submit.: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N.D., IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Thursday, April 15, 1993 page 11 
A fond farewell to graduating resident assistants 
As the school year winds to the lifeblood of this told me to keep my chin up and in your R.A. 's room and until one feisty R.A. in BP grew down and winter fades into a university: R.A. 's. be active within the ND munched on Papa John's for tired of us and chased us away. blossoming spring, plenty of R.A. 's are the people that can community. He taught me the two hours. Your R.A. could Because I run slow as dirt, I students are preparing their generally make or break a value of keeping on top of my hav~ been studying or sleeping, was at the end of the pack and goodbyes. Goodbye to snow. person's section. If your R.A. is work and breaking the vicious but he or she listened to your barely got away when she Goodbye to a full year of all­cool and lets you crank up habit of procrastination. I problems without one stretched her arm and tried to nighters. Goodbye to heart-Pearl Jam at midnight, chances suspect many R.A.'s have complaint. pull me back by my shirt collar. 
are your section is pretty cool. passed these kinds of tips on to One more thanks must be At that point, I made like 
But if they insist that you keep their freshmen. given, this time to an R.A. from Reggie Brooks and hightailed it 
quiet while they watch Rush In fact, every R.A. in St. Ed's Breen-Phillips. One frosty and made it outside safely. 
Alex Montoya , 

Limbaugh on TV, then I really passed on some valuable December night I took part in a
Hook Shots 

feel bad for your section. information. Joe Theby used St. Ed's tradition called Mob It was a frightening Truthfully, R.A.'s are some of his Hoosier experience to Caroling. The men of our dorm experience, but to that the most important people a advise me on how to create a donned bizarre outfits and terrorizing R.A. and every shaped chicken served at the student will meet at Notre dream date in South Bend with serenaded North Quad ladies other R.A. I've encountered, let dining hall on Valentine's Day Dame. Upon arriving in August, a scant thirty bucks. Dennis with holiday renditions of songs me just say: Thanks for the (then resurfacing two weeks students discover that R.A. 's Berry taught me the value of like "Copa Cabana". memories--I couldn't have later!) will be there to offer tips on self-discipline as he balanced We were a smash success made it without you. Peace out. 
But in addition to saying how to avoid buying textbooks academics, Air Force ROTC, goodbye to 3 a.m. bedtimes at the bookstore and how to and coaching our dorm football coupled with 8 a.m. classes, meet that attractive guy/girl team. Chris Hunter turned me there are some who are giving you peeped at the freshman on to jazz. Tony Gentine their permanent goodbyes. graffiti dance. showed me how to sink three­They're the folks who hold As the months pass, your R.A. pointers with composure Thursday night parties and will help you with despite arrogant trash-talking have those unbelievably cool homesickness, your first failing from the dorm that edged us in seats at home football games. grade , how to impress your the interhall hoops semifinals. 
Yes, the seniors. After four SYR date, and most important, So now the time has come to long years, the class of '93 can how to eventually solve these bid adieu to these noble finally bid Notre Dame a fond problems on your own. seniors. That means gratitude farewell. The R.A. 's in my dorm have should be expressed for the 
That means it is only fitting to been invaluable resources for time you were locked out by pay tribute to those veteran me. My section R.A., Mike your roommate and your R.A. Darners who are leaving us Gaunt, has been there during bailed you out. Or the time you 
great tips on how to skillfully temper tantrums (sorry about suspiciously carried a leaky use a Dogbook, as well as how the hole in the wall, Mike) as brown bag followed by an ice to use dining hall trays as sleds well as the confidence-crisis chest and your R.A. looked the during snow Tuesday. In when my GPA dipped to a other way. Or simply the 
particular, we must say "Adios" paltry level. Mike constantly numerous times you just chilled 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame must face crisis to achieve peace 
Dear Editor: green. Eventually, they would afternoon. Now again, that I never did bring home any pass safely by, you forget the 
return their focus to the reclu­word. And again. Where was it shells that day long tension and return to your ev­
"Niiggerrrr!!!" sive treasures in the yellowing coming from? ago ... except, of course, that one eryday activities. It's an odd 
In New Orleans, a levee hugs grass below until cautiously ris­"Niiggerrrrr!!!!" the boy and his father added to feeling. the border of Lake Pontchar­ing at the brief reappearance of "Niiggerrrrr" my collection. That night at Notre Dame, the train to prevent the waters a once distant car going safely Finally, fear rushed in from I still don't feel much for night the sun kissed the lake, I from dashing carefully built past. Then, again, shells would over his right shoulder -yet walking. realized that the houses at houses just across the street beckon. with it, confusion; a cold chill Colorful Octobers with fris­Notre Dame are also 13 feet and 13 feet below. The sun It felt different walking alone that caught young eye~ in a bees flying; peaceful winter below sea level. Those pretty bore a lazy grin, one early this far from home. The errand struggle of comprehension. Up landscapes while catching snow houses. Even in the dorms, the afternoon, on the slender legs itself had been relatively sim­on the levee, stark against the with your tongue; feeling the animals can get to you...the of an African American boy­ple ... it was the walk he had pale sky beyond, there was a sun kiss the lakes as day yields almighty security gates are as homebound from an errand, been worried about. Yet, with young, blond boy, maybe even to night... the University of powerless as the Pontchartrain along the road across from this each step, he felt anew the younger than he, yelling Notre Dame is many miles and levee. They let the animals run levee. The curious eyes of a bravery of an explorer, the "nigger" to him at the top of his many years from that levee of wild without chains here too ... nine-year-old scanned the short pride of new discovery...the lungs; "nigger" over and over, Lake Pontchartrain long ago. why don't the owners say grass before him for tiny shells kind that always made him feel until it was like an ulcer in his Ducks patrol St. Joseph's lake. something to the animals? or stones to add to his rock older, made him feel he was stomach. The few cars on campus have Then we could all play together. collection. doing the things a man would Spread on the blond face was been approved at security Of course, I know the answer. 
Occasionally, as he passed do. In fact, he felt like a man. a great, mischievous grin, visi­check points. Bushes rustle The silence gave it away. one of the white-painted The walk wasn't as bad as he ble even at that distance. More with squirrels, not dogs. Notre The dad is here, too, with his houses, a dog's bark would thought it might be. There than such a face, however, the Dame is one of those places son still on his shoulders, poke his ears and he would weren't many cars and the dogs young African American would truly good for walking. Notre shouting "Cheer, cheer for cautiously look up for, in New all seemed to be asleep or never forget the boy's legs. In­Dame, of all places, must be Notre Dame! There are no Orleans, they let animals run locked up. It was just one of deed, the legs were what he good for walking. problems here, son!" Yet, in his around loose without chains. those days good for walking. could not understand. Then, that word again, and silence, the dad is still the Sometimes a car would appear, "Niggerrrrrr!!!!" Every time the boy yelled again. Where was it coming louder of the two. dancing in the distance. This time, he heard it... I that ugly word, his bare legs from? I watched as young eyes I wish people at ND would get 
Young eyes would follow it mean, really heard it. At first, and feet would swing ever so spoke of harassing, late-night together and chase those two along until suddenly catching he thought it was someone's slightly, back and forth, back phone calls; off-comments in away ... them and their shells. distant seagulls hungrily pa­name being called ... just one of and forth ... you see, his legs the dining halls and by profes­In my stomach, the tension is trolling the seething waters just those sounds you hear amid the were resting on the shoulders sors during class; insensitivity getting worse ... or maybe beyond the protective stretch of wind and seagulls on a lazy of his dad. It was one of those by rectors and RA's in the they're just passing storm days good for walking. dorms. clouds... like Rodney King: Young, brown eyes watched A "Black Safewalk" was born dancing in the distance.. or is 


them move along the levee. because, in this environment, that the video shaking? King Eventually, they were in the "safe" was suspect in the regu­reappears, ever so briefly... distance with the seagulls, lar walk. The sun may have wearing a man's suit but not a dancing ever so slightly as they kissed the lakes that night, but man's dignity ... will this pass us walked. That father never said the only thing I felt were ulcers by safely or are there clouds in a word; he just smiled, same as again in my stomach. I realized the horizon? his son. Yet, in that silence, the that the little boy on the levee dad was by far the louder of the had grown up and he was at If people cannot see the two. Notre Dame now. No wonder common benefits of coming to­
A young African American there were no dogs in sight at gether to face a crisis, they will man was dashed against the ND ... they were all in the never be able to celebrate to­yellowing grass and the shells "white-painted houses"...in the gether in peace. Besides, it's and stones he was collecting dorms. such a nice day for walking at because something came over Tension! A distinct tension ex­Notre Dame ... and I just have a the levee, just briefly, and that ists in New Orleans, revealing few errands to do. almighty levee ... the one that itself only when the wind whips hugs the seething lake and pro­a certain way, clouds brew in Melvin R. Tardy 
tects the carefully built houses  the horizon and you remember  BA '86, MBA '90  
across and below ... was power­ that you are 13 feet below sea  Office of Admissions  
less to stop  level. After the storm clouds  April 8, 1993  

Accent 
page 12 Thursday, April 15, 1993 
Dancing women 
Saint Mary's celebrates "Women in Dance" series this weekend 
By MARY GOOD 
Accent Writer 
Dance can be a source of identity and empowerment. 
The focus on empowering women in movement will be the theme this weekend as Saint Mary's women explore femininity through dance and movement in "Women in Dance." 
The weekend seminar will in­corporate women's issues in areas of spirituality, feminism, and movement, according to lndi Dieckgrafe, assistant professor of dance at Saint Mary's. 
This weekend's seminar will kick ofT with "Women, Earth & Creator Spirit," the ninth annual Madeleva lecture. The celebrated speaker is female theologian Elizabeth Johnson, 
esc. 
Johnson received her doctorate from the Catholic University of America. An associate professor of theology at Fordham University, she also is internationally known for her insights into contemporary theological issues. 
Johnson has written a number of books including, "Consider Jesus: Waves of Renewal in Christology," and "She Who Is: The Mystery of God in Feminist Theological Discourse." 
Johnson has also written nu­merous articles on the theology of God, Jesus Christ, Mary, the saints, religious language, and feminist questions. These articles have appeared in such magazines as "The Tho mist," "lleythrop Journal," and 
"Journal of Ecumenical Studies." 
Johnson currently serves with the National US Lutheran/Roman Catholic Dialogue and Advisory Board of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops Committee on Women in Church and Society. 
Dieckgrafe said that based on Johnson's background and interest, her talk should blend together the topics of women and the arts, two of the week's major themes. 
"It will be interesting to see the way in which Johnson plans to tie women, dance, and spirituality together," said Dieckgrafe. 
The lecture is Thursday, April 15, at 7:30 pm in Saint Mary's Little Theatre and is sponsored by Center for Spirituality. 
The second event of the series is a Friday afternoon class pre­sented by Winifred Haun, a modern dancer from Chicago. According to Dieckgrafe. Haun's presentation will demonstrate students a new style of modern dance. "The class will give participants exposure to a new style," Dieckgrafe said. 
The class will be at 4:30 pm in the Regina Dance Studio and is open to everyone. 
Margie Gillis' powerful dancing will be featured in her solo performance Saturday. Gillis, a Montreal native, is a choreographer and performer of over fifty solo dance pieces. 
She has created a distinctive style through her past studies with teachers such as May O'Donnell, Linda Rabin, Lynda Haino, and Allan Wayne. Gillis plans to tour Japan in 1994 with her performances. 
Gillis introduced modern dance to China in 1979. She was the first performer, teacher, and lecturer in China following the Cultural Revolution. 
With such accomplishments, Gillis earned the position of Canadian Cultural Ambassador in 1986 and was presented with the Order of Canada award in 1988. 
Because of Gillis' unique and individualistic style, her presentation on the Saint Mary's stage is a breakthrough in feminist dancing, according to Dieckgrafe. 
"Gillis' solo appearance as a woman on the O'Laughlin stage is quite a brave endeavor," she said. "It will be interesting to see if Gillis' performance is feminine or feminist oriented." 
Gillis' performance will be at 8 p.m. on Saturday, April 17. Saint Mary's students receive complimentary tickets and members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communities can buy tickets for $3. 
The week's seminar concludes Sunday with a colloquium at 6 pm in the Regina dance studio. The panel will consist of religious studies major Therese Johnson, and dance major Marcie Thorson. Ballet teacher Tamsin Bomar will lead the discussion, seeking reactions to "Women in Dance." 
Dieckgrafe said that the dancers will demonstrate the forms of dance becoming more popular in the nineties. 
"The colloquium will focus on the audience response to androgyny in dance," she said. "This androgyny refers to being neutral on stage, and dance that is non-gender specific. 

Dance in the nineties involves on the body. no stereotypes, a lot of "Princes and princesses are athleticism, and no borderlines not what we are dealing with in on the the demands being made the nineties," Dieckgrafe said. 
Snite exhibits classic pencil sketches 
By JOHN LUCAS 
Accent Writer 
Not all art was made to last. 
A seldom displayed collection of drawings and sketches of six­teenth and nineteenth century French and Italian masters will be featured at the Snite Museum of Art as part of the Wisdom-Heilly Collection. 
The collection of drawings, which will remain on display until June 13, is unique in that the medium features pencils rather than paints. Since the drawings are sensitive to light exposure, they can only be displayed for short periods of time. 
Due to their delicate nature, the full collection was last displayed in 1983, according to Lucille Brodie, staff executive of the Friends of the Snite. 
"The exhibit has kept in drawers to preserve the drawings from the light, while several different pieces have been displayed at certain times for drawing shows," Brodie said. 
Consisting of the rare sheets of such old masters as Veronese, Campagnola, Lippi, and the landscapes studies of Dupre, paubingy, and Corot, the collection consists of 66 pieces. Sixty are currently being displayed. 
The Wisdom-Reilly collection was named for John Wisdom, the original keeper of the collection, who compiled the collection over a twenty year period. John Reilly, a Notre Dame alumni, acquired it, and then donated it to the Snite Museum. 
"While the collection was not formed with a strictly didactic purpose in mind, it clearly constitutes a rich representation of the important schools of I tali an Renaissance draftsmanship, and presents a very complete picture of mid­nineteenth century French landscape drawing," Chief Curator Steven Spiro said. 
According to Brodie, both Reilly and the University felt that it was important for the Snite Museum to host exhibitions of original art. 
"Reilly and the University saw the need for original works for students to study," she said. 
Despite being unique because of its light sensitivity, the Wisdom-Reilly collection is important for its focus on lesser known artists who were connected to the nineteenth century French "return to the land" movement. 
"While the names Ingres, Delacroix, Daumier, and Degas will assuredly be considered among the most significant draftsman, the drawings of such other artists as Henri Lehmann, Eugene Lami and Auguste Raffet offer a fascinating array of other stylistic options," according to Spiro. 
In addition to hosting the collection, the Snite will hold a Noontalk, on April 20, which will feature Bernard Doering, professor of romance language and literature. Doering will probe the relationship between art and literature by reading of two works of French poetry of the period, and examining their connection to the art of the time. 
"As a group, the Wisdom­Reilly French drawings show us that there is still much to be learned and appreciated in the field of nineteenth-century French drawings," Spiro said. 


Accent
Thursday, April 15, 1993 page 13 
Dancing around the world 
ISO to perform at International Festival downtown 
By STEVE TANKOVICH the festival is an interactive experience, 
Accent Writer one in which people will learn about themselves as well as experience other cultures, according to Chamindra 
World cultures will hit the Michiana Dassanayake, Co-President of ISO. area this Friday as the Internaitonal Festival comes to South Bend. "Many people confuse international 
The festival, which is sponsored by the with foreign," Dassanayake said. 
ND/SMC International Student "Americans are as international as any Organization (ISO). will feature other group." performances from over 170 students Dassanayake also stressed the from colleges around Michiana. These significance of the festival as a students collectively represent over 30 communication link between members countries. An American contingent will of foreign cultures and the community. also be included in these performances. 
"As a foreign student, I have realized · 
The festival is similar in many respects there is a general lack of knowledge of to the ISO Festival held on campus each foreign cultures," Dassanayake said. January. However, this festival is an "America is a large country and has open invitation to the entire Michiana many cultures. We urge the community 
region. to learn about bringing cultures into 
"The reason to bring it downtown is to ours," Dassanayake said. open a dialogue with the community," said Ramzi Bualuan, the producer of this Fellow Co-President Esteban Cantillo 
year's festival. agreed that International Festival '93 can do a lot to promote cultural 
Bualuan, a professor who teaches awareness. computer classes in the business school "The world is becoming more globally at Notre Dame,.is an advisor to the ISO. related so we might as well start 
Bualuan started the festival ten years learning about each other in this ago, while he was a grad student at the setting," Cantillo said. University. 
Cantillo pointed out that this is just one 
"The show is very important," Bualuan of many events that the ISO is organizingsaid. "In a very entertaining way, it to promote cultural awareness. This opens contact between the community entire week, the ISO, in conjunction with and Notre Dame." HPC and Student Government, has been 
The fact that there so many cultures sponsoring events for the "Belated represented by this festival makes it a Celebration of the SOOth Anniversary of highly informative production. However, the Discovery of America." 

Photo courtesy of Priscilla Peralta 
Notre Dame's Phillipino Group dances at January's ISO festival. 
ND grad, Ireland native, to read his fiction 

There have already been several events this week. On Tuesday, Notre Dame freshman Julie Kozdras talked on "Challenges and Opportunities for US Corporations in a New International Economic Dimension" and yesterday, Professor Isabel Jakob spoke about "Understanding the Differences within the Hispanic Culture." 
Tomorrow, Esteban Herrera will talk on "Reviewing the literature of the Discovery of America." The lecture will take place in the ISO lounge on the second floor of LaFortune at 7 pm. 
The Festival will be on Friday. Saturday, the week will close with a Latin American Bash. The bash will take place at South Dining Hall and will feature the Chicago group Diego Real and his Combo and Notre Dame's own Tiempo Latino, "the only Latin American band on Campus." 
According to Cantillo, the International Festival is sure to be one of the highlights of the week. 
"We want the ISO to be an instru­ment... where each culture has something to contribute," Cantillo said. 
Many performers said they are getting excited about the festival. Angie Luzio, who will be the emcee for the performance, is also in charge of the Phillipino group. 
-
In the Phillipino Group performance, members of the ND/SMC Phillipine Club will perform a dance called Tinikling. In Tinikling, "two bamboo poles are pounded together," said Luzio. "The ­performers are birds who avoid farmers traps by dancing around in between the poles. It's a very traditional dance," she added. 
Representing America at the performance will be Troop Notre Dame (TND). According to Priscilla Peralta, a member of TND, the group will continue their involvement with the festival by dancing to the sounds of Bobby Brown and PM Dawn. 
Peralta encouraged everyone to come to the performance, especially people who haven't been to one before. 
"When else is there a chance to see a Korean dance, a Lithuanian dance, and a Phillipino dance all in the same night?" Peralta asked. 
The International Festival will take place at 7:30 pm on Friday at the Century Center's Bendix Theater and will last about two hours. The cost of the festival is $3 for students and $5 for others. Tickets are available at the ISO ·office on the second floor of LaFortune of at the Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office. 
By MARA DIVIS Assistant Accent Editor 
Short fiction from Ireland will come to Notre Dame as Michael Collins, Notre Dame graduate and former track star, reads from his latest work, "The Man who Dreamt of Lobsters," today, according to Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations. 
Collins, originally from Limerick, Ireland, received both his bachelor's and master's degrees from Notre Dame, studied under a track scholarship during his undergraduate years. 
While Collins' track career took him through his first three years at Notre Dame, he left the track team his junior year, and took his first writing class during his senior year. This was Collins' first experience with writing, Moore said. 
"He had done absolutely no writing until he took a writing course his senior year." 
-Dennis Moore 
"He had done absolutely no writing until he took a writing course his senior year," Moore said. 
This inspired Collins to further pursue writing, and he studied Creative Writing in Notre Dame's newly instated writing program after receiving his Bachelor's degree in 1987. 
''(Collins) was the first person to receive our Master's in Creative Writing after we established that program," Moore said. 
Collins is currently studying for a PhD. in English at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He and his wife, Heidi, (Notre Dame, '91) live in Chicago, where she works for a computer software firm. Collins teaches basic computer skills to the University's Arts and Letters students and runs his own computer networking and software firm. 
Collins first interest is writing, according to Moore. Working on his latest collection of short stories, "The Life and Times of a Teaboy," has been Collins' latest endeavor. 
Today, Collins will read from his collection of short stories, "The Man who Dreamt of Lobsters." 
"They're mostly stories about contemporary life in Ireland," Moore said. 
Collins will read in 122 Hayes-Healy at 4:30 p.m. and a reception will follow the presentation. 
The reading is sponsored by the English department and the graduate Creative Writing program. 

The Observer Thursday, April 15, 1993 
page 14 

-
Kukoc and Krause SPORTS BRIEFS
NBA ·reaps more fines on 
The Ultimate Club will be having practice at 4:30 p.m.
reportedly close to a deal
Bulls, Pistons players 
every school day until the end o ATHENS, Greece (AP) -Toni Scansi seems to be the only the year behind Stepan Center. 
NEW YORK (AP)-Darrell Laimbeer was fined for pre­
Kukoc won't discuss the one in Athens not talking about Sectionals are being held this Walker of Chicago on Wednes­cipitating the incident by slap­Chicago Bulls, or anything else, what looks to be Krause's most weekend and the Big 1 0 Open is 
day was suspended for one ping Williams in the face with next weekend. All are welcome.
because he's superstitious about serious attempt so far to sign 
game and fined $10,000 and an open palm, while Williams Notre Dame Crew will have an
talking before a championship Kukoc. 
Bill Laimbeer of Detroit was was fined for retaliating by hit­informational meeting Thursday 
game. The 6-foot-1 0 star has been 
fined for the third time this ting Laimbeer in the head with at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland.
Bulls general manager Jerry hailed as the best player to Don't forget your checkbooks. 
season for their roles in a an open palm. Both players 
Krause says he's not talking to come out of Europe. On Tues­bench-clearing scuffie Monday were thrown out of the game Kukoc, or anyone else for that day, he had 15 points, 10 assists 
Aerobic Tryouts will be
night. with the ejections carrying an matter. and 8 rebouds to lead Benetton conducted on Friday April 16Laimbeer was fined $12,000 additional $250 fine each. 
But everyone else at the Eu­to a 79-77 victory over PAOK at 3:30 p.m. in Gym 1 of the
and the Bulls' Scott Williams Laimbeer, a frequent partici­ropean Championships has Salonica in the semifinals. 
JACC. Men and women inter­was fined $6,000 for taking pant in scuffies throughout his been talking about Kukoc, Limoges coach Bozidar ested in auditioning for Aerobic part in the incident. career, previously was fined Krause and how close they are Maljkovic, whose team plays teaching positions next year,The fines and Walker's sus­$7,500 and $6,500 this season. 
to getting on a plane bound for against Benetton in Thursday's should complete an application pension were announced by The first incident was for a fla­Chicago. final, doesn't mind bragging form in the HecSports Office 
Rod Thorn, the NBA's vice grant foul against San Antonio's prior to the Tryouts. Call 631­
"You know Toni is not the only about his former player. 
president for operations. David Wood in a preseason 5100 for more infornation.
player to deserve a position in "I believe Toni is the best The Bulls did not have any game and the second was the NBA," said Petar Scansi, his player in Europe," said Found at Bookstore 
immediate comment on the $6,500 for fighting with Char­Basketball game on 4/14: A
coach at Benetton Treviso. Maljkovic. 
freshman theology notebook.
matter, spokesman Tim Hallam lotte's Alonzo Mourning. 
Call 1-4560 to identify. 

as he can do, we're really
said. 

-
Walker was suspended for Fourteen other players were hopeful about Brian's chances." 
Intramural champions who
Volleyball
leaving the bench while not in fined $500 each for leaving the Right now, however, the Irish have not had their picture taken uniform and attempting to fight bench area during Monday's are more concerned about the
continued from page 24 by Roc Sports please go to the with Laimbeer after Williams scuffie. For Chicago, they were task at hand. 
like I'm capable, I have a good "We can't ever let up," said Arena on Monday, April 19 at and Laimbeer tangled with 5:05 Horace Grant, Scottie Pippen. 
5:00p.m.

shot." Madden. "If you have one badleft in the second quarter of the Bill Cartwright, Will Perdue, Ed Coach Jen Slosar said that the game, you're done. Everybody's
Bulls' 98-95 victory. Nealy, Rodney McCray, B.J. Campus Team Tennis
key to Ceponis was his versatil­healthy ... we can do this." 
Walker is currently on the Armstrong and Corey Williams. Tournament this Sunday, April 
ity. "A team that gets on a roll,"
Bulls' injured list with a muscle For Detroit, they were Terry "Brian can do a lot of things said Murdy, "can go forever. 18 at the outdoor courts. All strain in his lower back, and his Mills, Dennis Rodman, Mark well," Slosar said. "He can And if we get to the final 16, courts will be reserved at this 
time. Questions? Call Rec Sports
suspension will be served after Aguirre, Mark Randall, Alvin block, he can pass, he can play anybody can win it." 
at 631-6100.

back-row. With as many thingshis return to the lineup. Robertson and Danny Young. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next·day classitieds is 3p.m. All ctassitieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 ceots per character per day, including all spaces.  
- ~-N_O_T_IC_E_S__~''~__W_A_N_T_E_D__~  sional evenings. Mom's work schedule is flexible. Miami Trails area. south Fellows St.  ALLSTATE CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE  Have 6 grad. tix Best offer Kris • 273 ·9644  Hey Pittsburghersl We need someone to organize the luggage truck. If you need the truck, call Diane at 4828  
TYPING 256-6657  SUMMER JOBS  Call291-7286, leave msg.  COST-CUTTING DISCOUNTS:  I have a huge family & they all  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  helped pay for NO. Please! I need  Antostal, Regatta, SYR's .....  
Kim and Meg rock the world!  PRESTIGE CHILDREN$' CAMPS  Going to grad school at U of Miami  . GOOD STUDENT  extra grad tix!l Deanna @2476  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  or living in area? Need roommates ­ . PREFERRED DRIVER  Let us handle your weekend  
Fortune 500 Company continuing to  NEAR LAKE PLACID  call Mary 271·7288  . ECONOMY CAR  1 way tick. to SF from SB on  party needs with a party sub  
expand internationally. Seeking  CALL 1·800-786-8373.  .  AIRBAG  5n. $270/b.o. Call x4874.  from  
persons interested in becoming  PRO TENNIS RACQUET & VCR,  .  ANTI-LOCK BRAKES  SUBWAY  
Integral players in the growth of this business. Regions targeted include  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching basic  CALL8562  JOHN DAVENPORT,ChFC  PERSONAL  6 ft. Cold Cut Combo- 
Europe, S. and Latin America, and Pacific Rim. After 3 pm, call257­ conversational English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000·  FOR RENT  289-1993  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  only $34.95 with mention of ad  
5283. or 683·3195 for more  $4,000+ per month. Many provide  OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological  Ask about our party platters  
Information.  room & board + other benefits! No  SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  
previous training or teaching  bdrms, close to campus, safe  1-WY TCKT MAY 17  46615, or call Pager #282· 7042.  SR 23 & IRONWOOD  
llckets on sale now for the Farley  certificate required. For International  neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  S. BND to SAN JOSE  277·7744  
Hall Players· production of  Employment program, call the  utilities. Call Monica  $200 obo Julie x2762  ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE •  
A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE at  lntemational Employment Group:  232·2794.  Give yourself, your baby and us a  SIGN UP NOW FOR THE TODD  
LaFortune Info Desk for $4.  (206) 632·1146 ext. J5584.  91 GEO Storm GSI. 17Kmi, 5 spd,  brighter future! We are a loving,  BROSKI BENEFIT GOLF  
Shows April15. 16. & 17.  2 BDRM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL  A/C, Red, Exc Cond &$8500 277­ secure, Catholic, Caucasian couple.  TOURNAMENT ON SAT. MAY 8  
ILOST & FOUND I  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT • fisheries. Earn $600+/week in canneries or $4000+/month on  CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277­4155.  3956. DESK for sale·25$. mike @  Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616) 629-9037  OPEN TO ALL -PUBLIC SIGN UPS AT THE PRO SHOP BEHIND THE ROCK  
fishing boats. Free transportation!  x2148  Are you interested in living in  -STUDENTS SIGN UP AT THE  
LOST (still ... ): Pair of gold clip-on  Room & Board! Over 8000  SUMMER SCHOOL?  DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See  LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE  
earrings on Friday. 3/26. between  openings. No experience  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS?  Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon  ·GREAT PRIZES AND CONTESTS  
Zahm and the beach near the boat  necessary. Male or Female. For  Sublease from us at  NEED FURNITURE?  @ 271-1938.  I  
house. VERY IMPORTANT!  employment program call 1-206·  TURTLE CREEK  WE HAVE IT ALLII  
..  Call Bridget at X2721  545·4155 ext.A5584  2 Bdrrn. Town House Call Paul @ 3830 or  CALL 273-2180  Need Ride to Tampa Bay Area. Call Chris x4045  TO THE ONE WHO HELPED ME FIND MY RING (AND A LITTLE  
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  to SUBLEASE your house/apt. for  Dave@ 1670  COMPUTER PACKAGE •  FAITH, TOO) ...THANKS... DIDI  
HEADLINE : "Trusting Soul Has  SUMMER:3-5 people,pref. near  IBMcmpat. w/20MHD,Epson prnt,  '''IRISH GARDENS'"  
Compact Discs Taken from His  campus-call Samx4842  OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT!  CGA, 5.25 fd,software +dcmnts. flp  is now accepting  HEY GOONIEI  
Party: Perpetrator  1 Br w/loft, 2 Bth, fireplace,  disks,+morel$400.00,ngtble.273­ APPLICATIONS  
Sure to Have Guilty Conscience•  SUNSET MATTRESS FACTORY  WID, garage, 12 mo. lease. Call Bill  2826.  for the fall for both in-store  BILLY  ELIJAH  
Help the victim outl Help him to be  NEEDS PART· TIME: SALES HELP.  or Caroline at  and delivery pos~ions  and the  
reun~ed with The Ocean Blue, Pink  APPLY IN PERSON INDIAN RIDGE  317-297·8485.  FOR SALE  Enquire in the shop,  ESCHATONES  
Floyd's The Wall, and Queen's  PLAZA  BED, DESK, CHEST OF  basement of LaFortune  Club 23:  TONITEII!II  
-­ Greatest Hits. CO's that were reported missing at Tony's Good  COUNSELORS, summer camp for  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  DRAWERS, LAMPS, COUCH, RECLINERS, CHAIRS, ETC. VERY  '"IRISH GARDENS'"  9:00p.m until the parousia The end may be near...  
~  Friday Off-campus Party. PLEASE  developmentally disabled, June 12­ 219-291·7153.  LOW PRICES·MUST SELL!  Adopt: we are truly loving couple  
CALL WITH ANY INFORMATION  Aug 21, Orlando, FL (407) 889­ 273-2699-DARIN  who can bring love and happiness  Chi-Chi (Honey Bunny),  
I•  AS TO THEIR WHEREABOUTS! 634-3603 Just leave a message where I can pick them up; I won't ask your name--1 only want my CO's back II NOT ANGRY, JUST DISAPPOINTED  8088. NEED:ApartmenVroomate for part of summer:5\17-6\7(you could still rent to summer school stdnt.)Needs to be bikelwalk dist. Annex2995 Nannies wanted to live in or out in  Female '92 grad looking for roommate(s) in Chgo area. Prefer western suburbs.Open to ideas. Monica 708-961·3533 wk: 708­850·4333 SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.  Cathedral ceiling and open living areas in this new 1350 sq.ft., 3 bedroom. 2 bath ranch. Just 3 blocks east of NO campus and built by CRESCENT HOMES. 273-2754.  to your white newborn. We offer financial security and a great future in our oceanside home. Medical/legal expenses covered. 1­800·438·6599 eves. I'm looking for some real love. ·BEA  Thanks for the ice. I love you! Schnookums '&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&& HEY PW OFF-CAMPUS SENIORS .....  
~ I• ­ CO's "LOST' AT TONY'S OFF· CAMPUS PARTY ON GOOD FRIDAY : Pink Floyd, Ocean Blue, Queen TO WHOMEVER TOOK MY  the Chicago area. $300+ per wk. working with caring families. Teri Burgess Consulting is a child care specialist who works with both family and nanny. 1·312-525·4800.  GREAT RATES! AVAIL. NOW,SUMMER & FALL.272·6306 SUMMER SUBLET-Turtle Creek townhouse.  MOVING OFF·CAMPUS???? DESK AND DRAWERS for sale for sale for sale for sale GOOD CONDITION and inexpensive 271-1443 Steve  Bea, There's your ad. Walter  ITS SENIOR SLIDE SHOW TIME AGAIN AND I NEED YOUR PHOTOS ....  
COMPACT DISCS:  Mike 277 9139  oh my tickle master,  BY FRIDAY ....  
I generously shared my house so  1993 grad. looking for roommate(s)  Computer desk & chair $75 or b/o.  Happy 20th I Hope you have a  
we could party. I never expected  in Chicago area.  SUBLET: 2 bedrm turtle creek  Call Mary 271-7288.  great day and even better year  I HAVE TO HAVE THEM TURNED  
someone would steal my precious  Open to ideas.  townhse: Javier 634·3686  ahead. What are you wearing?  INTO SLIDES ...  
CO's. Call me naive. but I trusl a person  Call Brian at 277·8490.  ??????????????????  TICKETS  luv alwaiz.  SO THERE ARE NO EXTENSIONS  
until he or she breaks that trust.  I  NO undergrad females  ARE YOU STAYING AT  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  THIS YEAR. ...  
work hard for the money I eam and  looking to SUBLEASE YOUR 2 OR  N.D. FOR THE SUMMER?  One way airline ticket from  Jet there anytime for only $169 from  
the CO's I buy. Please examine  3 BEDROOM APT./ HOUSE for  S. Bend to Seattle, May 17th.  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  I ALSO NEED SONG  
your conscience and ask if what you  summer session  Sublease at  $200.00 or best offer.  (when available) with AIRHITCHI  SUGGESTIONS ....  
did was fair to me. Hopefully, you  (preferably near campus). Call Lisa  TURTLE CREEK  Mary 631-5194  (Reported in Let's Gol & NY  
will see justice like the thief who  X4265 or Mia X2669, X2648  Townhouse • 2 bdrms  llmes.) AIRHITCH (r)  PUT BOTH IN THE BOX OUTSIDE  
died with Jesus. I am not angry •  Rent is reasonable  Help!HelpiHelpl I need grad tickets!  212-864·2000.  MY DOOR. ...  
just disappointed.  Child care provider needed in my  and negotiable  If you have extra call Joe@ 277­ 
Please call Tony with info x3603  Granger home.  4273.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  323PW....  
20-25 hrs/wk. now through June 8  Call Jeff at x336B  in LaFortune Student Center  
LOST· Pair of Brown Topsiders on  & 30-35 hrslwk through summer.  ??????????????????  HELP I I need 1 or 2 grad tix. if  QUALITY COPIES  THANKS-JENNY MARTEN  
Steppan Courts April 1 , If found call  Call271·1638  you have extras call mike at 4­ as low as 31t each  '&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'&'  
X4600  2148 or leave message at 284  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
Need mature part time sitter for 11 mo. old. Days & occas·  FOR SALE  -5506 and let's make a deal.  


-·---··~·---------------·-~-·----~~-----~------·-----~---------'"-! 
Thursday, April 15, 1993 The Observer page 15 
•'. ..... ..... ..... ...... ............. ..... ..... ...... ...... It
.. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 0
. ~ .~"~ ~ ~-~ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~ ..~ ~ ..
0 ii\ ,{ 0 ..... . . ....... ...... ...... . ........ ...... . . ~~ flt 
0 

' -. '~ '/ : : : : : • • : : : : : : : : • • : : -,,. ·" 'II' --' 
........_...... " ' ·.....··.....· · .....·: ·.:...... :.....··.....·: :: ·.:.....· ..,.,,.,.. ......._....... 
BOOKSTORE RESULTS NBA STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
Tuesday's Results EASTERN CONFERENCE BASEBALL Sexual chocolate del. Dime-dime-nickel­The Running revs del. Shuck, Jive, and Atlantic Division American L..gue dollar, 21-18. Drive, 21-8. W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Conf MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Activated Dave Ul' ofthe ultra violet def. Bughaus, 21-12. Revenge of the chickenheads del. We're y-New York 55 21 .724 9-1 Won4 34-4 21·17 37-13 Nilsson, catcher, and Bill Doran, Infielder, 29-22
5 Guys who play no D def. The dominant just notthat good, 21-14. Boston 43 33 .566 12 5-5 Wont 26-13 17-20 from the 15-day disabled list. Sent William 
factors, 23-21. Eleven del. 5 Guys who say "out with New Jersey 4 2 35 .545 13 1/2 2-8 Lost 6 26·13 16·22 26-25 Suero, Infielder, to New Orleans of the No clue del. The blitzkreig, 21-10. Delucia", 21-17. Orlando 37 38 .493 17 1/2 6-4 Wont 24-14 13-24 23-26 American Association. Waived Tim The Revenge of the suburbans del. Silk Team Johnny Cat del. 5 Guys to pound it Miami 35 41 .461 20 5-5 Lost 1 25-13 10-28 21-29 Mcintosh, catcher. 
igloos, 21-17. down low, 25-23. Philadelphia 2 3 53 .303 32 2·8 Lost 3 12-25 11·28 16-35 SEATTLE MARINERS-Optioned Greg Utton, The Love slaves of Kelly Kapowski del. The Naked goatherders del. Washington 21 55 .276 34 2·8 Lost 5 14-23 7-32 13-37 infielder, to Calgary of the Pacific Coast Molloco and ultraviolence, 21-1. Dreamweavers, 21-19. Central Division League. Time to fly Ill: it's finally over del. 5 Girls 2 Fresh crew del. Doohw, 21-13. x-Chlcago 54 22 .711 8-2 Won4 28-10 26-12 36-14 National League who suck, 21-10. Beef and company del. Mason Mike and x-Cieveland 48 27 .640 5 1/2 7-3 Won5 31·6 17-21 MONTREAL EXPOS-Claimed Tim Mcintosh,
31-18 We're so bad, our best player is Asian del. his bricklaying .., 21-10. Atlanta 40 37 .519 14 1/2 5-5 Lost 2 23-15 17-22 23-28 catcher, off waivers from the Milwaukee Ever heard of us?, 21-7. Smooth momentum del. Pasta, dirty Charlotte 39 38 .506 15 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 19-19 20-19 24-27 Brewers. I want a piece of gum del. Ball grabbers, undershorts, 21-9. Detroit 38 38 .500 16 6-2 Won 1 26-13 12-25 29-21 BASKETBALL 24-26
21-9. Larry ... del. Buttofuco's garage, 21-12. Indiana 36 36 .500 16 5-5 Won 1 25-13 13-25 National Basketball Asaoclatlon 
The Good, the bad, and the laundry del. Fuzzy and the carpetbaggers del. Bucket Milwaukee 28 48 .366 26 3-7 Lost 2 18-20 10-26 20-30 NBA--Suspended Darrell Walker, Chicago Ben-wa boys, 21-9. of Oz. 21-13. WESTERN CONFERENCE Bulls guard, for one game without pay and Shades of funk del. Common's club, 21-In it 1a win it del. Kind buds, 21-9. Midwest Division lined him $10,000 and fined Bill Lalmbeer, 
19. Leftovers del. Fushickers, 21-19. W L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Conf Detroit Pistons center, $12,000; Scott Big head Todd and the pordi del. Jack and Peanut slickers del. When you play with x-Houston 51 2 5 .671 Won 7 30-9 21-16 Williams, Chicago Bulls center, $6,000, and
8-2 32-15 4 other guys who get in the box, 22-20. us... 21-11. x-San Antonio 46 29 .613 4 1/2 5-5 Won 1 29-9 t7-20 29-18 Horace Grant, Scottie Pippen, Bill 5 Six feet white guys del. 5 Guys NO could MC counsellors and grasscutters del. 3 x-Utah 43 33 .566 8 6-4 Won 1 24-13 19-20 25-23 Cartwright, Will Perdue, Ed Nealy, Rodney beat, 21-17. Lucky survivors with ... , 21-5. Denver 33 44 .429 16 1/2 6-4 Lost 1 25-13 8-31 21-27 McCray, B.J. Armstrong and Corey Williams, 5 Hoopsters of the apocalypse del. What Woody and 4 other stiffs del. Whatever, Minnesota 18 57 .240 32 1/2 3-7 Lost 6 10·28 8-29 13-34 Chicago players, and Terry Mills, Dennis the Irish would look like without Marty, 21-11. 21-5. Dallas 8 68 .105 43 1-9 Lost4 5-32 3-36 2-47 Rodman, Mark Aguirre, Mark Randall, Alvin Pacific Division Robertson and Danny Young, Detroit players, z-Phoenlx 59 $500 each for their roles In a bench­
MLB STANDINGS 16 .787 9-1 Lost 1 33-4 26·12 37·1 0 
x-Seattle 51 25 .671 8 1/2 5-5 Wont 31-7 20-18 34-14 clearing fight In a game on April 12. x-Portland 47 28 .627 12 7-3 Won5 28-10 19-18 32-15 Continental Basketball Aaeoclatlon NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
LA Clippers 36 39 .494 22 5-5 Lost 1 25-13 13-26 24-25 OMAHA RACERS-Activated Alex Stivrlns,East Division 
East Division LA Lakers 36 40 .474 23 112 3-7 Wont 18-20 18-20 23-25 forward. Placed Anthony Houston, guard, onW L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 
Golden State 3 2 4 3 .427 27 5-5 Lost 1 17-21 15-22 23·23 the Injured list. 
Philadelphia 8 1 .889 Boston 6 2 .750 
Sacramento 22 54 .289 37 1/2 1-9 Lost 6 15-24 7-30 15-33 FOOTBALL Plllsburgh 5 2 .7t4 2 New York 5 .625
3 

x-clinched playoff berth National Football LeagueSl. Louis 5 2 .7t4 2 Toronto 4 3 .571 1/2 
y-clinched division title BUFFALO BILLS-Matched San FranciscoNew York 3 3 .500 3 1/2 Detroit 3 4 .429 2 1/2 
z-clinched conference title 49ers' offer to Jeff Wright, nose tackle.
Chicago 4 5 .444 Cleveland .375
4 3 5 3 
Tuesday's Games INDIANAPOLIS COLT8-Signed Aaron Cox,
Thursday's GamesMontreal 3 5 .375 t/2 2 3
4 Milwaukee 5 .286 1/2 
Boston 96, Indiana 90 wide receiver.
Boston at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m.
Florida 3 6 .333 5 Baltimore 6 .143 4 1/2 
Orlando 11 0, Milwaukee 91 LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Agreed to terms
Orlando at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m.
Weal Division West Division 
Cleveland 112, Atlanta 109, 20T with Steve Smith, fullback, on a three-year
Miami at Washington, 7:30 p.m.
W L Pet. GB w L Pet. GB 

New York 93, Washington 85 contract.
Portland at Utah, 6 p.m.
Houston 5 3 .625 
Texas 6 .857 
Houston 126, LA Lakers 1 07 MIAMI DOLPHINS-Signed Troy Taylor,
Cleveland at Milwaukee, 8:30 p.m.
Atlanta 6 4 .600 
California 5 2 .714 1 
Seattle 129, Minnesota 95 quarterback, and Martin Hochertz, tight end.
Friday's GamasSan Francisco 5 4 .556 t/2 Oakland 4 3 .571 2 San Antonio 110, Sacramento 100 Detroit at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-MatchedLos Angeles 3 5 .375 2 Seattle 4 3 .571 2 
Portland 101, LA Clippers 99 Washington Redsklns' offer to Wayne
Orlando at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m.
Colorado 2 4 .333 2 Chicago 4 4 .500 2 1/2 
Wednesday's Games Martin, defensive end.
Portland at Minnesota, 8 p.m.
San Diego 2 5 .286 2 t/2 Minnesota 4 4 .500 2 1/2 
Late Games Not Included SEATTLE SEAHAWK8-Signed Kevin Murphy,
New York at Indiana, 8:30 p.m.
Cincinnati 2 7 .222 3 t/2 Kansas City 1 7 .125 5 1/2 
New York 111, Charlotte 107 linebacker.
Milwaukee at Chicago, 8:30 p.m.
Tuesday's Games Tuesday's Games 
Detroit 87, Atlanta 84 HOCKEY
Denver at Dallas, 8:30 p.m.
Houston 9, Montreal 6 
Boston 6, Cleveland 2 San Francisco 3, Florida 1 
Indiana 1 09, New Jersey 90 Sacramento at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. International Hockey LeagueDetroit 20, Oakland 4 
Chicago 119, Miami 92 PEORIA RIVERMEN-Activated Mark Bassen,
Seattle at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m.
St. Louis 9, Los Angeles 7 Tor onto 6, Seattle 5 forward. 
Philadelphia 4, Cincinnati 1 Chicago 4, Minnesota 0 LA Lakers 112, Dallas 99 Golden State at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Houston 107, Denver 96 
COLLEGE
Houston at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. Minnesota at Phoenix, (n) ARKANSAS STATE-Announced the
Atlanta 3, Chicago 2 Texas 8, Baltimore 3 
New York 8, Colorado 4 Only games scheduled 
San Antonio at Golden State, (n) resignation of Charles Thornton, athleticPittsburgh 6, San Diego 4 Wednesday's Games director.
Wednesday's Games Late Game Not Included BUFFALO-Named Tim Cohane men's
Late Games Not Included NBA PLAYOFF PICTURE 
New York 6, Kansas City 5 basketball coach.
Florida 6, San Francisco 4 Boston t2, Cleveland 7 FORDHAM-Named Rich Heffernan assistantChicago 6, Atlanta 0 California t2, Milwaukee 2 offensive line and quarterbacks coach and
Houston 9, Montreal 5 EASTERN CONFERENCE WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Seattle tO, Toronto 9, 10 Innings Rick Ulrich receivers coach.
Philadelphia 9, Cincinnati 2 Minnesota at Chicago, ppd., rain W L Pet. GB W L Pet. GB FRESNO STATE-Extended the contract of
New York at Colorado (n) y-New York 55 21 .724 z-Phoenlx 59 1 6 .787
Baltimore at Texas (n) Jim Sweeney, football coach, for lour years,
Pittsburgh at San Diego (n) x-Chlcago 54 22 .711 1 x-Houston • 51 2 5 .671 8 1/2
Only games scheduled through the 1997 season.
Sl. Louis at Los Angeles (n) x-Cieveland 48 27 .640 6 1/2 x-Seattle 51 25 .671 6 1/2 Thursday's Games Boston 43 33 .566 12 x-Portland 47 28 .627 12 HOFSTRA-Promoted Marc Riccio,Thursday's Games 
Seattle (Cummings 0-1) at Toronto 
coordinator of athletic fund raising, to
Houston (Drabek 1-1) at Montreal New Jersey 42 35 .545 13 1/2 x-San Antonio 4 6 2 9 .613 13
(Stottiemyre t-0), t2:35 p.m. 
associate director of development of
(De.Martinez 0-2), t :35 p.m. Atlanta 40 37 .519 15 1/2 x-Utah 43 33 .566 16 1/2 Intercollegiate athletics.
Oakland (B.Witt 0-0) at Detroit (Doherty 
New York (Gooden t-t) at Colorado (Nied Charlotte 39 38 .506 16 1/2 LA Clippers 3 8 3 9 .494 22
1-0), 1 :35 p.m. 
REGIS-Announced the resignation of Laura
1-1 ), 3:05 p.m. California (Farrell 0-1) at Milwaukee Detroit 38 38 .500 17 LA Lakers 36 40 .474 23 t/2 Fischer, women's assistant basketball
Pittsburgh (Cooke 0-1) at San Diego Indiana 38 38 .500 17
(Bones 0-t), 2:05 p.m. 

coach.
(Eiland 0-t). 4:05 p.m. Denver 33 44 .429 27
Cleveland (Mesa 0-0) at Boston (Clemens RUTGERS-Announced the retirement of
St. Louis (Arocha 1-0) at Los Angeles 2-0), 6:05 p.m. Orlando 37 36 .493 17 1/2 Golden State 3 2 43 .427 27 Frank Elm, swimming coach, effective July
(Astaclo 0-t). t0:35 p.m. Kansas City (Appler 0-2) at New York (Key Miami 35 41 .461 20 x-clinched playoff berth Atlanta (G.Maddux t-O) at San Francisco 2-0), 7:30 p.m. z-clinched conference title 1.
x-clinched playoff berth SOUTH CAROLINA-Named Clyde Wren
y-cllnched division title recruiting coordinator.
(Brantley 0-0), t0:35 p.m. Only games scheduled 
Only games scheduled UCLA-Announced the resignation of Billie 
Moore, women's basketball coach. 
Course changes COTH 210 01 0344 FIN 360 03 2035 LAW 631A 01 2256 RLST 251 43 9543 
COTH 377 01 3610 FIN 360 04 2036 LAW 631B 01 2257 RLST 251 45 9545 ACCf 371 01 1290 ·change time to: TH 02:45-04:00 COTH 435 01 4520 FIN 361 03 2046 LAW 631D 01 2259 RLST 339 51 9551 COTH 461 01 1731 -change to "Permission Required" COTH 440 01 4521 FIN 376 03 2050 LAW 679 01 3656 ROFR 310 02 1254 
CSE 332L 05 4841 FIN 376 04 2051 ME 331L 01 4867 ROSP 318 01 3476 
Closed courses as of Closed courses as of 
CSE 471 01 3626 FIN 380 01 2054 ME 331L 02 4868 ROSP 328 01 3021 
7:00p.m. 4/14/93 7:00p.m. 4/14/93 ECON 402 01 3633 FIN 470 01 2060 ME 469 01 0684 ROSP 483 01 4742 
ECON 417 01 4458 FIN 475 01 0566 MI 318 01 3475 soc 232 02 3331 ACCf 232 02 1284 ARCH 598 02 0401 ECON 443 01 1788 GE 475 01 3865 MI 333 01 4601 soc 242 02 4159 ACCf 371 02 1294 ARHI 169 01 1409 ECON 447 01 4559 GE 575 01 3866 MI 432C 01 4753 soc 332 01 0509 ACCf 371 05 1292 ARHI 483 01 4474 EDUC 340 18 8418 GEOS 141L 03 4918 MI 530 01 4604 soc 486 01 4571 ACCf 372 01 1296 ARST 231S 01 1436 EDUC 404 30 8430 GOVT 316G 01 4599 MUS 220D 02 0777 soc 490 01 3043 ACCf 479 01 1304 ARST 245S 01 3566 EE 342L 01 1834 GOVT 342 02 0893 MUS 220D 03 2521 STY 370 01 3650 AFAM 371 01 3652 AS 411 02 1489 EE 498B 01 4914 GOVT 342T 01 3289 MUS 226 01 2524 STY 454 01 3561 AFAM 455 01 3886 BA 362 01 1496 ENGL 301A 01 1994 GOVT 342T 02 3290 MUS 230 01 4756 THEO 243 01 4817 AMST 301E 01 4587 BA 363 02 1843 ENGL 301B 01 0604 GOVT 342T 03 3291 PHIL 224 01 0767 THEO 246 01 1155 AMST 302E 01 4588 BA 363 03 1499 ENGL 301B 02 4607 GOVT 403 01 4076 PHIL 225 01 3662 THEO 250 01 1105 AMST 303E 01 4589 BA 363 05 1500 ENGL 310 02 0642 GOVT 403T 01 4080 PHIL 225 02 4761 THEO 253 01 1150 AMST 354H 01 4699 BA 391 01 1212 ENGL 312 01 1998 GOVT 459 01 4457 PHIL 232 01 4131 THEO 255 02 4818 AMST 367H 01 4702 BA 391 02 1004 ENGL 314E 01 3776 GOVT 478 01 4968 PHIL 239 01 2189 THEO 264 01 4169 AMST 368H 01 4703 BA 391 03 1213 ENGL 319A 01 2000 GOVT 486 01 3698 PHIL 242 01 5101 THEO 265 01 1147 AMST 386H 01 4704 BA 490 03 1507 ENGL 319A 02 2001 GSC 220 01 3905 PHIL 242 02 5102 THEO 266 02 1146 AMST 387H 01 4705 BIOS 304L 01 1520 ENGL 322 01 2002 GSC 315 01 4638 PHIL 246 01 2620 THEO 281 01 3675 AMST 388H 01 4706 BIOS 344L 01 1523 ENGL 333 01 4610 GSC 430 01 3940 PHIL 261 02 0279 THEO 282 01 4819 AMST 401E 01 4590 BIOS 344L 02 1524 ENGL 340 01 3431 GSC 495A 01 4646 PHIL 263 01 4135 THEO 290 01 0057 AMST 402E 01 4591 BIOS 344L 03 0195 ENGL 384B 01 3824 HIST 308A 01 3646 PHIL 265 01 2623 AMST 403E 01 4592 BIOS 344L 04 0194 ENGL 392B 01 4612 HIST 326A 01 3463 PHIL 315 01 4765 AMST 404E 01 4593 BIOS 401 01 2145 ENGL 399A 01 3688 HIST 358A 01 4098 PSY 211A 01 2780 
Classes that will reopen

AMST 430 01 0500 BIOS 405 01 0587 ENGL 415Z 01 4616 HIST 370 01 3649 PSY 341 02 3179 ANTH 310 01 3492 CAPP 315 01 1603 ENGL 426A 01 4617 HIST 371A 01 5032 PSY 341T 02 4923 at 7:00p.m. 4/15/93 ANTH 310A 01 3493 CAPP 361 01 1604 ENGL 435A 01 4580 HIST 393 01 3312 PSY 355 01 0267 ANTH 329 01 3734 CAPP 416 01 0497 ENGL 453 01 3693 HIST 394 01 2175 PSY 403 01 4788 ANTH 310A 01 3493 ANTH 329 02 4444 CHEG 459 02 1642 ENGL 470 01 4626 HIST 395 01 0534 PSY 421 01 0755 COMM210 12 9712 ANTH 405 01 3992 CHEM 333L 01 0183 ENGL 470A 01 4993 HIST 430 01 4443 PSY 453 01 4790 ENGL 310 02 0642 ANTH 411 01 4450 CHEM 333L 02 1684 ENGL 480 01 4628 HIST 458 01 4116 PSY 454 01 0754 ENGL 322 01 2002 ANTH 431 01 4451 CLAS 441 01 1712 ENGL 485B 01 4629 HIST 458A 01 4115 PSY 455 01 0753 ENGL 333 01 4610 ANTH 431A 01 4985 COMM 103 02 9702 ENGL 495A 01 1223 HIST 473 01 4686 PSY 462 01 4791 FIN 475 01 0566 ANTH 454 01 3560 COMM 103 03 9703 FIN 231 01 2032 HIST 473A 01 4687 RLST 235 31 9531 GOVT 459 01 4457 ARCH 443 01 1400 COMM 103 04 9704 FIN 231 02 0571 HIST 474 01 3495 RLST 235 33 9533 PHIL 263 01 4135 ARCH 543 01 1403 COMM 103 05 9705 FIN 360 02 2034 !IPS 584 01 3620 RLST 235 35 9535 soc 332 01 0509 ARCH 598 01 1404 COMM210 12 9712 
page 16 The Observer 
Langer looks to refocus at Heritage 

AP File Photo Davis Love Ill will challenge Master's champion Bernard Langer at the Heritage Classic this weekend. Love has won the event three times. 
Thursday, April 15, 1993 


SK AND IOK RUNS 
THURSDAY, AI'RJL IS 4:1SI'M 
ST. MARY'S I.AKE AT THE lAK~:~ INTERSECTION IN FRONT OF COlUMIIA IIAll 
$1.00 IN ADVANCE $2.00 IJAY lW 
ENTR\' 1-'0HMS AVAil.AUt.E AT RI::CSPOKTS ANIJ bOllI UININO IIAI.l.S 
MEN'S ANU WOMI-:1\i'S IJI\'ISION~ 1'01'1-'0IJM FINISm:KS IN EACII UIVISOJ'I. \VII.I. IU:t't:l\'1-: A TIWI'IIY 
num ANn REFNt:sn:m:" r"i 

IIILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. {AP) -Bernhard Langer said Wednesday that all the distrac­tions caused by winning the Masters might keep him from doing well at the Heritage Clas­sic this week. 
"I've had lots of demands the last few days," said Langer, who won for the second time at Augusta National on Sunday with a 4-stroke victory over Chip Beck. "My preparation hasn't been ideal." 
Langer said he is making more time to deal with his in­creased popularity since the Masters' victory. That's left him very little time to get ready for the Harbour Town Golf Links, where the Heritage will start on Thursday. 
''I've had phone calls and messages from all over the place," he said. "I could easily spend the next eight hours on the phone." 
The distractions didn't seem to bother him eight years ago, when Langer followed his Mas­ters' title with a win at the Her­itage. And while his practice time may be down, the 35-year-
Love, the Heritage winner in 1987, 1991 and 1992, is trying to forget a poor Masters per­formance in which he shot 76 and 77 the last two rounds. 
"I put it behind me on Satur­day after 13," he said. "I said, 'All right, it ain't going to hap­pen this year.' I've done all I can do, except get in there and play well." 
Love's played very well at Harbour Town, winning three of his five appearances at the seaside course. He led after ev­ery round last year and ended at 269, four strokes ahead of Chip Beck and one oiT Stewart's 72-hole tournament record. Love thinks he has an advan­tage at the Sea Pines Resort course, but only a slight one. 
"I know how to· play this golf course," Love said. "I can shoot a low score if I have confidence, but can shoot a 75 if I'm not playing well." 
He opened the season with a win at the Tournament of Champions and tied for second in the Nestle Invitational last month, making almost $300,000 so far this season. 
Denver has new look under Phillips 
DENVER {AP) -While the we can. Protection is first," league's smallest fronts. new Colorado Rockies have Phillips said. Last month, Denver signed 6­made the introduction of major foot-5, 290-pound Don Maggs league baseball the talk of the Phillips has wasted little time from the Houston Oilers and 6­town, the Denver Broncos have beefing up Denver's offensive 7, 300-pound Brian Habib of been busy rebuilding their line, historically one of the the Minnesota Vikings. 
football team. 
They have a new coach in Wade Phillips and a new, pass­oriented offense. 
"It's the Bill Walsh system," Phillips said. "As far as philos­ophy is concerned, try to make 3, 4 and 5-yard gains instead of trying to run it every time." 
Under Dan Reeves, the Bron­cos struggled to establish a bal­anced attack, then unleash John Elway in the game's wan­ing moments. The approach often worked: Elway has pro­duced 31 fourth-quarter come­backs (30 wins, 1 tie) in his 10­year career. 
But Phillips won't wait to uti­lize Elway's considerable tal­ents. 
"I think our best chances for success are to get the ball to our best player and let him do what he does best," Phillips said. "John Elway can do any­thing, but it doesn't take long to recognize what a great passer he is. He's a phenomenal talent. 
"His great strength is his great ability to throw the ball wherever, whenever and to whoever -and then also to be able to get out of situations that most quarterbacks can't get out of to make a great play. That added to his passing ability makes him unique." 
But a passing attack implies quarterback sacks. 
"To be able to pass. of course. he can't get sacked 50-some times," Phillips said. In 1992, the Broncos allowed their quarterbacks to be sacked 52 times. 
"We do think the system will help us some, in that he'll get rid of the ball {quickly)," he said. 
Phillips said the new offense requires Elway to drop back five steps and throw, as op­posed to the seven-step drop he has employed previously. 
"We're going to try to sur­round our best asset {Elway) with as many good people as old German feels his attitude is near its peak. 
"My confidence is very high at the moment and I believe I can pull oiT shots," Langer said. 
Two weeks before the Mas­ters, he finished second to Nick Price at the Players Champi­onship. His latest victory left him on top of the PGA's money list with $609,500 in three events. 
Langer finished the Masters with a final-round 70 for a 277 total and the most lopsided win at Augusta since Seve Balles­teros won by four shots in 1983. However, he said none of that matters this week. 
"I live in the future and will concentrate on the task at hand," he said. 
That means facing a field which includes three-time win­ner Davis Love III; two-time champions Stewart. Hale Irwin and Tom Watson; and former PGA champions John Daly and Nick Price. 
This is Langer's first appear­ance at the Heritage since 1989, when he tied for third behind Payne Stewart. 
Congratulate yo~r Special Graduate 
In 
The Observer 
for our commencement issue. 
You can receive this size ad with a picture and a special message. 
Just send $20, picture and note to: 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
DEADLINE IS MAY 12 FOR THE ISSUE ON MAY 14. 

YA GOTTA REGATTA 
Come enjoy the 1993 Fisher Regatta on Sunda], A]Jril18th. 
Races will begin at 11:00 a.m. Coach Lou Holtz will speak at the Regatta. 
Mandatory Captain's Meeting will be held on Thursday, April 15th in the Montgomery Theater. 
Anyone interested in entering a boat should contact Mike Ruane at 4-1939 for details. 

~ --~ ~-~---------------~---~­

an ersity 
I 

Author of The •• IJallerzge ofPeace, and the Chaplain oM' I}~ard U~ 
:il-~~f:,· ....~:-.y._,: .. :::~·,_·,._:•.· .. ·»'. '·· ··,: 
7:30PM on .· ay, April15 t the Lib ·.··· ··· uditorium 
/.\~A 

Arece -II follow. 
I 
•t
, 
I 
t 
' r 
, 
I 
I • 
I 
I• I 
page 18 The Observer 
The Oblerver/Sean Farnan Irish midfielder Billy Ahmuty battles a Hobart defenseman. The junior leads the Irish in ground balls this season. 
Special to The Observer 
·= 
The Notre Dame baseball team's game against Illinois in 
6~~v 
Champaign, Ill. yesterday was 
rb~oJ
cancelled due to rain in the third inning. The Irish were 
~ttl\ 
leading 2-0 when the game 
.._.......-~r
was called thanks to an Eddie 
1. 237 
2. Princeton 230 : 3. Syracuse 209 
4. Johns Hopkins 206 5. Virginia 199 6. Brown 180 
7. 
Loyola (MD) 150 

8. 
Navy 147 . 


9. Duke 125 ;: •• 10. Massachusetts 119 / 11. Maryland 115 •' •• 12. Hofstra 114 •: 
. 

13. Towson St. 113 •. 14. Army 109 15. Rutgers 77 
16. Notre Dame 71 17. Georgetown 47 18. Yale 44 
19. Penn State 13 . :-19. Delaware 13 
::

' ' '' ' ' ' :· ' '... ' 
7 Day DeliY,~ry 
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Hartwell two-run home run. 
Clockrower Square ( 219)2 7 7 ... 1291O'<-O,e'<-~ David Sinnes, the Notre Dame starter, had struck out seven o 
51400 31 North ~~'(. the nine batters he faced in the 
South Bend, IN 46637 '1 0.~~ game. 
Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 
Thursday, April 15, 1993 
Lax 
continued from page 24 

extremely hard to figure out. When they play in the thin air of Colorado Springs they are a very good team, but when they get out on the road they play poorly. Obviously this is a very erratic squad who shouldn't play well for the simple fact that they are in rainy, dreary South Bend. 
But Corrigan isn't so sure. "A win versus Notre Dame would wipe the slate clean for them this season. It would be a huge win." 
So the Falcon lacrosse team arrives today looking for the upset over the #16 Irish. Coach Corrigan will look to junior at­tackers Randy Colley and Robbie Snyder to lead the of­fensive charge and dispatch the gutty Falcons early in the game. 
If Notre Dame can recapture their intensity of past perfor­mances, they should be able to handle Air Force, just as in last year's 15-10 victory over the Falcons. 
But if the Irish come out and play lethargically, the upset is not out of the realm of possibilities. 


Less than halfthe cost of other programs! 
More than 40 hours of intensive strategy instruction to help you score higher 
Thursdays, 6 -10 p.m. Aprtl 22 to May 20 IUSB Administration Bldg. 
REGISTRATION & INFORMATION: CALL 237-4261 
Division of Continuing Education Indiana University South Bend 1700 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 
Would you be interested in becoming an 
AssiSTANT TO THE NoTRE DAME 
jUDICIAL COUNCIL? Positions Available: Elections Assistant Legal Concerns/Training Assistant Ethics Committee Assistant 
Eligibility: 

Any current Freshman, Sophomore or Junior of both academic and disciplinary good standing who is interested in working with Student Government and the Administration 
Due Date: 

Pick up an application at the Student Government Office in LaFortune and return it to the Student Government Secretary by Monday, April19, 1993. 

----=O-b-oo-~~--------------~T-h_u_ffi_d_a_~_A_p_ri_l_15-.-1-~-3----~l 
page 19 
®J INTERHALL LACROSSE f®~. ­
Towers dominating Blue league 
Zahm, Sorin atop Gold standings 
By JEFF ENES Sports Writer 
The towers on campus are also towers in the interhall lacrosse blue league. Both Flanner and Grace have three wins and one tie entering the season's final games tonight. 
The games start at 8:00 at the Loftus Center. Grace is matched up against lowly Fisher (0-4), while Planner must play a fiesty Dillon team (2-1). Off­Campus (1-2) will also play Morrissey 
(1-3). 
Grace and Planner are both talented teams, each with a few players of varsity experience. Nevertheless, both teams point to teamwork as the key to their teams success. 

Grace is lead on offense by freshman Pat VanDenbroek, who is averaging two goals a game. Eric Hupfer is one of Grace's top defensemen, and goalie Sean Hyer is limiting opponents to less than three goals a game. 
However, Grace's captain Michael McMahon points out it is not one player that makes their team. In fact, a increase in talented players has left Grace seven backups to work in the game. "We have a lot of talented players, so our key is to work together and play well as a team," said McMahon 
Two ex-varsity players, Jason Pett and Mark Carolin, lead the Planner squad. With their talent and experience, Flanner seems to be a favorite to win it all. But because of two forfeits the last two weeks, they have not played in a game since the last week of March. 
"I am not really sure of our chances 
since we've won two by forfeit," said 
Pett. 
Look for a well-played, intense Lacrosse game if the towers should meet down the toad. Both are assured of an upper division playoff spot, and tonight they play for the title of regular season champs and the top playoff spot. 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
With the playoffs right around the corner, play in the interhalllacrosse gold league will be heating up as teams vie for the three playoff spots. Zahm and Sorin both sport undefeated records and will play for the all-important first round bye, while Stanford and Carroll will fight for the final spot. 
In this matchup, Carroll holds the upper hand, having already won the team's regular season head-to-head competition. 
The Zahm squad has used a tenacious, pressuring defense to jump out to an undefeated record. "We've got to credit our defense for our wins," noted captain Dave Shepard. "Chip Taunt has been our best player and has led the team on the defensive end." 
Taunt and Pat McHugh have been the defensive catalysts for victories, but this is also a balanced team on the offensive end, capable of putting up points in a hurry. Scorers Brian Klem and Dan Thieke have carried the load offensively. 
Sorin has also run out to an undefeated record, relying on its unsung hero in the nets, goalie Jeff Shea. "Jeff has been making saves left and right and playing very strong. He's not afraid to stand up and make the stop," said captain Paul Villa. 
Sorin is by no means a one man team though, as defenders Scott Curtis and Jeff Thieke have been preventing oppo­nents from getting easy shots, while midfielders Kevin Krayer and Kevin McGrath have lent offensive support and balance to the team. 
Going into the playoffs, captain Villa is not relying on a different strategy than what got Sorin there. "We'll go at it with everything we've got, and hopefully things will work out," noted Villa. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
The Sacrament of Reconciliation 
I heard some amazingly holy confessions during the lead up to Easter this year, and those experiences again allowed me to see both the depths of the struggle of most human lives, and the wonder of the healings available when God's mercy is freely announced. 
Very few people I know like to "go to confession." It is a moment of vulnerability and surrender. For most modern~day Christians and Catholics, it is an awkward time, just as well to be avoided, or at best tolerated twice a year. 
My meditation today is on the sadness of that truth. 
In the old church, pre~ Vatican II, before most people on this campus were 
born, (our young people must be tired of hearing about that old 
church...), good Catholics went to confession perhaps twice a month and 
listed their discretions clearly ~ "I was angry with my husband, I had bad 
thoughts, I spoke gossip about my neighbor." In response, they heard 
words of forgiveness, promised to say a few prayers in-reparation, and ·came out of "the box" feeling clean. It all seemed to hang together. 
When the Church "changed," and rethought itself, one of the most striking losers was this holy sacrament. If before, jillions of people lined up on a Saturday afternoon for a washing of their soul, suddenly now Father sat in the box with cleansing words awaiting, and nowhere to put his suds. Folks were self~actualized, guilt~free, and exploring. 
I had a terrible experience in confession. As a senior in high school, some priest insisted we all go to face~to~face confession with him alone, and I think he was sick. Nowadays, it would be called abuse, but what he made me say and see that day left me so scarred that I was unable to return to the sacrament for nine years of stupid pain, unnecessary fear. 
Happily, when I was a new and ymmg priest, I had a wiser, older pastor who understood how much people had suffered from the changed experience of this sacrament. Together, we decided to preach about "reconciliation" ~ the new word at the time ~ and we preached for months, inviting people to come back and try again. No one would be mocked for bringing a "laundry list," no one would be dumped on for not knowing "how to begin." 
In the sacrament, we sought to pray together. The penitent and I would thank God for the goodness of God's mercy, and for the truth of God's forgiveness. Slowly, slowly, more people showed up to pray and share; slowly, slowly, healing words could be spoken again. 
This Sunday's Gospel quotes Jesus, speaking on the very night of His resurrection, and telling His followers that "whose sins you shall forgive, they are forgiven; whose sins you shall hold bound, they are held bound." 
Traditionally, this directive was understood to be the basis for the priest's power to forgive sins. I wouldn't argue with that. 
More powerfully, however, it seems also to be a directive to all of us ~ that we all be people of reconciliation and hope, of forgiveness and healing in every opportunity of our lives. Some people resent the sacrament of reconciliation because it seems to say that only the priest can forgive sins. That can't be true. Most of us know that each of us can and must reach out in times of pain and alienation and heal those who suffer and feel most cut off from love. Every Christian must be Christ, now, in His resurrected Spirit, and seek to heal the world. 
Knowing this will not diminish the traditional grace available in the community's honored avenue for healing, the holy sacrament. There, in a way lifted up by the prayers of Christians everywhere, the Church's minister can say healing words and offer challenging call, and lead the penitent soul to again believe in God's love. 
Easter announces hope ~ all pain and death are swallowed up in life and love eternal. The sacrament of reconciliation ~ confession ~ does the same. 
It would be a shame if we lost this time~tested avenue of grace. Try it some time. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS 
-
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. April 1 7 5:00 p.m. Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. 
Sun. April 18 10:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING Acts 2: 42..4 7 2ND READING 1 Peter 1: 3..9 GosPEL John 20: 19.-31 

page 20 The Observer Thursday, April 15, 1993 
I-Yankees beat struggling Royals 
NEW YORK (AP) -Wade The Angels, trailing 2-1, Wednesday night in Baltimore's Boggs went 4-for-4 with two scored five runs in the eighth 6-5 victory over the Texas RBis, and the New York Yan­inning'llnd six more in the Rangers. kees held on to beat Kansas ninth. On Monday, California A steady drizzle fell all City 6-5 Wednesday despite got six runs in the ninth for a evening and the gametime yielding four runs in the ninth 12-5 victory. temperature was 48 degrees. inning. Chili Davis, whose bloop single Whipping winds dropped the 
Bob Wickman came into the in the eighth put the Angels wind chill factor to 38 factors, ninth with a three-hitter and a ahead 3-2. hit a two-run double and the poor conditions sent 6-1 lead but yielded four runs off Graeme Lloyd and Salmon several players slipping to the with two out on Kevin followed with his three-run grass. McReynold's RBI single and a homer. Ryan gave up six runs on eight three-run homer by Jack Hiatt, Lloyd was pitching to catcher hits, four walks and a wild his second. Dave Nilsson, forming the first pitch. He struck out four. 
Steve Farr got the last out for Australian battery in major The 46-year-old Ryan (1-1} the Yankees' first save of the league history. They are two of threw 97 pitches. Pitching on season. only four Australians to play in the last day of the Rangers' 
Kansas City has lost seven of the majors. homestand, he tried to weather its first eight games while the Four of California's runs in the the storm, but left with Texas Yankees won their fourth in ninth were charged to Josias trailing 6-1. five. Manzanillo. John Orton singled The Rangers almost rallied to 
Wickman (2-0) had a one-hit for his third hit, Luis Polonia save Ryan from his first loss in 
• 

shut out until George Brett singled and Chad Curtis and J.T. his 27th and final season. Pinch 
,..... , 

opened the seventh with a dou­Snow walked, forcing home a hitter Doug Dascenzo led off the ble, eventually scoring on Brent run and bringing on Lloyd. ninth with a double against Mayne's one-out ground out. Orioles 6, Rangers 5 reliever Greg Olson and took 
Red Sox 12, Indians 7 ARLINGTON, Texas-Nolan third on a sacrifice, but Gary BOSTON -Boston would have Ryan, stuck on the mound in Redus lined out and Rafael 
struggled last season against a the middle of a rainstorm, Palmeiro flied out. team that scored in every lasted only four innings and lost Ben McDonald (1-1} won de­inning but two. The hot­for the first time this season spite giving up five runs. 

swinging Red Sox are a lot dif­ferent than their puny prede­cessors. 
Led by four hits apiece by Mo Vaughn and Scott Cooper, the club that batted .246 last sea­son raised its average to .300 with an 18-hit attack in Wednesday's 12-7 victory over the Cleveland Indians. 
The Indians scored once in every inning except the fifth and ninth, but Boston stayed in first place in the AL East. 
"Teams get up some runs on us and we say 'there's a lot of innings left," said Vaughn, who is hitting .429. "Nobody's going to come out some day and just shut us down. We're going to make outs but we're going to make some hard outs. That's the attitude." 
Cleveland took a 3-1 lead be­fore Boston scored three runs in the third. When the Indians tied the score in the fourth, the Red Sox responded with a six­run fourth sparked by two-run doubles by Vaughn, who was 4­for-5 with four RBis, and Cooper, who was 4-for-4 with three RBis. 
Mariners 10, Blue Jays 9 
TORONTO-Rich Amaral singled home the go-ahead run in the 1Oth inning and the Seattle Mariners, after blowing a seven-lead lead, beat the Toronto Blue Jays 10-9 Wednesday night. 
Ken Griffey Jr. hit an RBI single in the sixth that put Seattle ahead 7-0. An error by first baseman John Olerud on Omar Vizquel's grounder al­

-lowed two runs to score in sev­enth, giving the Mariners a 9-3 lead. Pat Hentgen (0-1) issued con­secutive one-out walks in the lOth. including Tino Martinez's team-record fifth of the game, 
before Jay Buhner hit a

.. 
grounder that could have been an inning-ending double play. But shortstop Dick Schofield's relay to pulled Olerud off the bag, bringing up Amaral. 
Amaral lined a 2-0 pitch off reliever Mike Timlin to score 


pinch-runner Henry Cotto with 

With Visa® you're accepted at more than I 0 million places the go-ahead run. 
around the world, nearly three times more than American Express. 
Angels 12, Brewers 2 

Just in case you ever come up a little short 
MILWAUKEE-Tim Salmon 

homered and the California Visa. It's Everywhere You Want To Be~ Angels scored six runs in the ninth inning against Milwaukee for the second straight game, beating the Brewers 12-2 Wednesday night. 
L----------------------------------------<QVisaUS.A.Inc.1993_____, 


-----~--~--~­
~--• ":"'f)) ~-' '':1,___""!-_-.'V._t_b_d1_Jl_ri_'r-------~-----­
11 
'Os'~d6Q 
page 21
The Observer 

Thursday, April 15, 1993 
Harkey leads Cubs over Braves 
AP File Photo Will Clark and the San Francisco Giants fell to the Florida Marlins 6-4 yesterday to end the Giants 4-game winning streak. 
SJdf£od 
STORAGE 
OF 12TH STREET 
ATLANTA -Mike Harkey came off the disabled list Wednesday and pitched 7 1-3 shutout innings as the Chicago Cubs defeated the Atlanta Braves 6-0. 
The Braves, who entered the game hitting .199, were shut out for the second time in 10 games. 
Harkey (1-0). activated from the 15-day DL earlier in the day, gave up four hits, struck out five and walked two. 
The right-hander, placed on the disabled list on March 27 to continue rehabilitation of his left knee, was removed from the game after walking Otis Nixon with one out in the eighth inning. Bob Scanlan relieved and got out of the inning before Randy Myers finished. 
Jeff Blauser had three of the Braves' six hits. 
Jose Vizcaino, hitting .148 entering the game, had a sac­rifice fly in the second inning off Pete Smith (1-1) and a two-run double in the sixth. The three RBis tied a career high. 
Chicago's Mark Grace ex­tended his hitting streak to eight games with a solo home run, his third of the season, in the third. 
Marlins 6, Giants 4 

SAN FRANCISCO-The Florida Marlins won their first road game Wednesday as Rich Renteria's pinch single broke a tie and capped a three-run sixth inning in a 6-4 victory 
I·

Units from 5x5 to 10x20 
24 hour security 
o deposit required Size 4 month cost 
, :_ ,''.·. CLASS OF 
5'x5' ............ $68 5'x10' ......... .$92 
259-8221 
lO'x10' ........ $140 
17 53 E. 12th St.,
10'x15' ........ $168 
Mishawaka
1 O'x20' ........ $200 

'95 
Attention FreshiTien! 
There will be a mandatory
Apply today for Sophomore 
meeting for anyone
Class Council positions: 
-Chief of Staff -Liturgical Commissioner 
interested in being a 
-Social Commissioner -Fundraising Commissioner -Service Commissioner -Dorm Representative 
member of the Junior Class 
-Publicity Commissioner -Council Representative 
Council on April 19 at 8:00 
Applications are available in the Student 
p.m. in LaFortune Center's 
Government Office from April 14-19. 
Applications are due April 19 at 5 p.m. in the 
Montgomery Theatre 
Student Government Office. 
10 -15 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE DURING SUMMER SESSION 
• 
$5. 30 per hour • meet new people 

• 
flexible evening hours • training 

• 
no experience necessary • real life experience 


Please join us for an informal 
OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Friday, April 16th 3:00-4:30p.m. at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb (631-7938) or Kent Goffinet (631-7241) 
over the San Francisco Giants. 
The Marlins snapped the Giants' four-game winning streak. 
One day before the Atlanta Braves were to arrive for a four-game series, manager Dusty Baker held both Barry Bonds and Will Clark out of the starting lineup because of in­juries. 
Bonds pinch hit in the eighth, bouncing out to first base, and Clark popped out to second in the ninth. Bonds strained his right hamstring on Monday and missed Tuesday's game, while Clark was resting a nagging leg injury to his left leg. 
Mets 6, Rockies 3 

DENVER-Sid Fernandez held the Colorado Rockies to one hit in five shutout innings before leaving with stiffness in his left shoulder, and the New York 
Mets  held  on  to  beat  the  
Colorado  Rockies  6-3  
Wednesday night.  

Fernandez (1-0), whose de­parture was termed precau­tionary, did not allow a hit until Andres Galarraga led off the fifth with a sharp single to left field. Of the 15 batters he re­tired, nine hit the ball in the air, most of them on harmless fly balls except for Charlie Hayes' long drive which Ryan Thompson caught at the base of the left-center field wall in the fourth. 
Fernandez threw only 40 pitches and, despite two walks, faced only one batter over the minimum, thanks to two Col­orado runners who were caught stealing. 
Mike Draper relieved Fer­nandez in the sixth and held the Rockies scoreless through two more innings, allowing only one other hit, until Colorado scored in the eighth on Eric Young's three-run triple. 
Mike Maddux pitched 1 1-3 innings for his first save as a Met, allowing one hit. 
Earlier in the day, the agent for Fernandez broke off con­tract negotiations with Mets general manager Al Harazin. 
Tom Selakovich, the pitcher's agent, said general manager Al Harazin had rejected his latest offer of a two-year deal for $7 million. Selakovich said he had wanted a two-year deal for $8 million but lowered the total because Fernandez wants to stay in New York. 
The Mets got hits from their leadoff batter in each of the first four innings, but continued to strand runners and had to settle for single runs in the first and second. After leaving a club record-tying 15 batters on base Tuesday night, they left 14 on base. 
Vince Coleman led off the game with a triple off the cen­ter-field wall and scored on Tony Fernandez's sacrifice fly off Bryn Smith (1-1). 
Thompson opened the second inning with a single, was sacri­ficed to second, and scored on Coleman's single. 
Phillies 9, Reds 2 

PHILADELPHIA-The Phillies beat Cincinnati to sweep the Reds at home for the first time in 25 years, improving to a major-league best 8-1 with its fifth straight victory. The best start in team history came in 1915, when the Phillies got off to an 8-0 record. 
Wes Chamberlain had three hits, drove in two runs and threw out a runner at the plate for the Phillies. Mariano Dun­can had three hits and scored twice, Juan Bell hit an RBI dou­ble and a single and Pete lncav­iglia drove in three runs. 
Ben Rivera (1-1) pitched six shutout innings, allowing four hits, striking out seven and walking four for the victory. Loser Tom Browning (0-2) gave up up five hits and five runs in 4 2-3 innings. 
Astros 9, Expos 5 
MONTREAL-Houston won its 

-
fifth straight road game as Ken Caminiti drove in two runs to help the Astros beat Montreal. The Astros started the season with three straight losses at home against Philadelphia, but swept a three-game series at New York over the weekend. 
• 
Houston scored two runs on wild pitches, including the go­ahead run in a three-run sev­enth to take the lead as the Ex­pos again missed closer John Wetteland, out with a broken toe. The Astros rallied for seven runs in the seventh inning in a 9-6 victory on Tuesday against Montreal. 
Mark Portugal (2-0) pitched six innings, giving up five runs and four hits. Reliever Mike Gardiner (0-1) gave up three runs and didn't record an out in the seventh. 






--~ -~ ~------­
page 22 The Observer Thursday, April 15, 1993 
Jordan, Bulls crush the Heat; Knicks keep pace in East 
The Home For All Your Cycling Needs 10140 McKinley· Osceola, IN 46561 219-679-4992 10-7 Monday-Friday • 9-5 Saturday  

Think you know all there is to know about Bookstore Basketball? 1. Who is the "patron saint" of Bookstore Basketball? 2. What is the longest team name in Bookstore history? 3. How many Bookstore games have been played inside? (If you guessed "0", you're wrong!) 4. Who was the only male to have a sex-tiona! named after him? 5. In which dorm were Bookstore signups taken over the phone? Which room? 6. Which team has made II Sweet 16 appearances? 7. Two Bookstore players were selected for the Olympic Basketball T earn (different years). Who were they? Find out in: Look Out For The Manhole Cover A History OfNotre Dame's Bookstore Basketball Tournament Available NOW in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for $14.95 50 pages of the BEST TEAM Names from 1972-1992! •fOver 50 photographs! •:·championship teams, award winners! •:·Fifteen years of the women's tournament! •:·useless Bookstore trivia! •:·And More!  

CHICAGO (AP) -Michael Jor­dan scored 15 of his 34 points in the third quarter Wednesday night, leading Chicago past the Miami Heat 119-92 for the Bulls' 12th victory in 14 games. 
The Bulls remained one game behind the New York Knicks in the race for the best record in the Eastern Conference. The Knicks beat the Hornets 111­107 in Charlotte. 
Chicago, which has won four straight, snapped Miami's three-game winning streak and knocked the Heat three games behind Indiana and Detroit in the battle for the last Eastern Conference playoff spot. 
The Bulls outscored Miami 37­23 to build a 91-63 lead en­tering the final quarter, which was played mostly by bench players. 
With Chicago ahead 58-43 with 9:41 left in the third quarter, Miami's Grant Long was hit with two technical fouls and Brian Shaw with another after Long had been called for an offensive foul. Jordan, who did not play in the fourth quar­ter, sank all three free throws, giving Chicago a 61-43 lead. 
Horace Grant added 20 points for the Bulls and Will Perdue had 14. For Miami, Harold Miner scored 19 points and Steve Smith had 18. 
The shot of the night was made by Dan Calhoun, 23, of Bloomington, III., a fan who won $1 million in a contest. His three-quarter court overhand shot from the opposite free throw line swished through the net during a timeout in the third quarter. 
Knicks 111, Hornets 107 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Patrick Ewing scored 17 of his 39 points in the fourth quarter Wednesday night, leading the New York Knicks to a 111-107 victory over the Charlotte Hor­nets. 
The Knicks' fourth straight win kept them one game ahead of Chicago, which beat Miami, in the race for first place in the Eastern Conference. The Hor­nets remained in seventh place in the conference standings, but the loss left them just one-half game out of eighth. 
In the decisive fourth quarter, the Knicks made 13 of 18 shots and outscored the Hornets 32­
22. Charlotte was 8 of 24 in the period. 
Going almost exclusively to Ewing, New York rallied from a 91-84 deficit to go ahead 96-95 on his basket from the lane 
-

• 
1994 Senior Formal Committee April 20~ 1993 
Applications are still available at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor LaFortune) or Haggar Center 
Questions: Call Stacy Jones 634-4858 or Angie Fitzgibbon 284-5121 
Applications due April 20. 
and Indiana handed New Jersey its sixth consecutive loss. 
The Nets, mired in their longest losing streak of the sea­son, dropped 1 1/2 games be­hind fourth-place Boston in the Eastern Conference. The Celtics play at New Jersey on Thursday night. 
Indiana outrebounded the NBA's top rebounding team 63­44, led by Rik Smits with 11 rebounds and Dale Davis with 10, plus 16 points. 
Derrick Coleman led the Nets with 23 points. Drazen Petrovic returned to the lineup after missing 10 games with a sprained ligament in his left knee, but scored only six points on 3-of-12 shooting. 
Lakers 112, Mavericks 99 
DALLAS-Anthony Peeler scored seven points in a tiebreaking 13-6 surge in the fourth quarter, and James Worthy had half of his 20 in the period, leading Los Angeles past Dallas. 
The Mavericks failed in a bid for its ninth victory of the sea­son, leaving them trailing the 1972-73 Philadelphia 76ers, whose final 9-7 3 mark is the worst in NBA history. The Mavericks (8-67) have six games remaining -four at home -in which to avoid the record. 
Sedate Threatt scored 22 points and Vlade Divac 21 for the Lakers. 

with 5:21 remaining. During that 12-4 run, Ewing scored 10 points. 
Alonzo Mourning had 27 points and Larry Johnson 22 for the Hornets. Charles Smith scored 23 points for New York. 
Pistons 87, Hawks 84 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich.-Terry Mills scored 10 of his 24 points in the fourth quarter and Detroit improved its playoff chances by beating Atlanta. 
The Pistons, playing without leading scorer Joe Dumars be­cause of an injured knee, won for the seventh time in eight games. They are tied with Indi­ana for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Detroit, trailing 66-61 after three quarters, tied the score 71-71 with 7:53 to go before Mills scored the next eight Pis­tons points, lifting them to an 85-81 lead with 1:34left. 
Dominique Wilkins, who scored 29 points, pulled the Hawks within one with a 3­pointer, and Atlanta regained possession when Isiah Thomas traveled with 48 seconds to go. 
But after Thomas knocked a pass away from Duane Farrell, Bill Laimbeer hit two free throws and Wilkins' 3-point attempt missed at the buzzer. 
Pacers 109, Nets 90 

INDIANAPOLIS-Reggie Miller scored 20 points, including the 700th 3-point goal of his career, 
~sz:;::::::;;w_.. 

AP File Photo Michael Jordan paced the Bulls with 34 points in last night's win over the Heat, which was the Bulls' 12th in their last 14 games. 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
RIDAY 
Softball 
s La Salle Ivy Field 3:30 PM* 

SATURDAY #12 Lacrosse 


vs Ohio Wesleyan Krause Stadium 3:00 PM* 
Free giw!-lMUY tofirst 100fans rounesy ifMiles Credil Union 
Track 
vs Ball State Krause Stadium 11:00 AM* 
• Free admission 
Today 

Thu~da~April15, 1993 page 23 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 



CROSSWORD 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

0 
t:~. ~~TROPICAL FISH 
)J@!Jl 8, SUPPUES 
•........•.• ~~
, 
.. t 
. . .·:=:=~:~(:; 
BILL WATIERSON 
I Sfo-'i LHS 1-1\()IJE 
ON 1D S\JMMER. 
4·15 


"Hey! You're not lookin' to buy anything, are you? I think you best just keep movin', buddy." 
ACROSS 29 Valencia and 53 Derelict bergamot 
57 Draw

1 Foolishly enthusiastic 58 Scofflaw's
32"-Lay Dying": Faulkner 

nightmare5 Presidential 
33 Magnates 35 Snitch Comb. form 
surname 62 Mountain: .. 
10 Health resorts 36 "Rose-rose 63 More frigid 
14 A companion of Aeneas 
··.":Stein 64 "To Live and Die 37 Barley beard -," 1985 film 
15 Radio, TV, etc. 36 Period of note 65 Attention-
16-Alto, Calif. 39 Daiquiri base getting sound 
11 Vanishing obstruction in 40 Satiated 66 Groups of 1989 44 Yalie devotees 19 Algerian port 45 Usurper's action 67 Capital of 20 Part of H.S.H. 47 Repaired the Calvados 21 Looters' activity car brakes 23 Otherwise 49 Ecru's kin DOWN 25 Monica of so Actress 
1 Shoots the tennis Thompson breeze26 Rock-clinging 51 Hot 
2Have-in
marine Mediterranean one's bonnet gastropods wind 
3 Teri of "Miracles" 4 In dreamland
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 General pardon 6"... the foggy, 



foggy-" 7 City in Okla. 8 Legendary 
father of Irish kings 
tNaCiworks 10 Oral 11 An insecticide 12 Lyrist-Jay 
Lerner 

13 Loewe creation 18 Passage to a 
culvert 22 Lackaday! 24 One that got 
away 

25 Citizens of Pauls Valley 26 Beds for Leo and Elsa 27 Publish 28 Baldwin-Ward 
film: 1990 30 U.S. inventor Pliny­
31 Serious 34 Hooter 40 Destroy 
41 Statistically expected 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0304 
Take the keys. 

Call acab. 
Take astand. 

FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK! 
_..... 
42 Blustering people 43 Church official 46 Fanatic 48­
pentameter 51 Emporium 52 Randan 
implements 
54 Island in the 
Hebrides 55 Food fish 58 Saxophonist 
Getz 59 Old coin of 
France 60 Naught 61 Examine 
carefully 


THURSDAY MOVIE 
JUICE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY
•
Of ICe 
and 

en 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM 8 & 10:30PM 
...
T H CD Release u 
R PARTY! 
s RT THE HUDDLE 
D 8PM-12RM y A No·s FINEST ON CD. 
Sports 
page 24 

Thursday, April 15, 1993 
Irish lacrosse looks to rebound against Air Force 
By KEVIN MCGUIRE Sports Writer 

After suffering their first loss of the season over the weekend, the 16th-ranked Notre Dame (8-1) lacrosse team attempts to rebound with a victory against the visiting Falcons of the Air Force Academy at 3:00 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. In the case of inclement weather, the game will be 
moved inside Loftus. 
The challenge for the Irish in this afternoon's game will be to recapture the aggressive play that was Jacking in their 13-7 Joss at Duke on Friday. One very important aspect to regaining intensity will depend on how the Irish 
~~. 

•... 
..  .<  _  .  
.~'<  
.1_.···  ,..:::_  
r'  

midfielders play. Randy Colley 
The starting line of juniors Willie Sutton and Billy Ahmuty and freshman Rob Tobin will need to scoop up more ground balls than they did against the Blue Devils, where they were thoroughly outplayed. The second and third lines will also have to step up and help out with the likes of senior Ed Lamb and sophomores Marc Pasquale and Kevin Lynyak contributing on both offense and defense. 
"As midfielders, we know we didn't play aggressively against Duke, so we're looking forward to the Air Force game to regain our confidence and intensity," said Ahmuty. 
Sophomore goalie Ryan Jewell will start in net for the Irish against the Falcons. Jewell had a strong game versus Duke with 22 saves, and will be relied upon to lead the defensive effort. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan knows that his team will have to step up and play for a full 60 minutes if they are to beat a very scrappy and aggressive Falcon squad. "Whenever you play an academy team, you know that they are going to play hard, be able to go all day, and play tough," he said. 
Adding to danger that this Air Force team poses for the Irish is the fact that three of their top six scorers are on their first mid­field, a line that Corrigan considers dangerous. 
The fact that Air Force plays such a team-oriented game will force the Irish to play the Falcons in a full ten-on-ten situation. "Their team play concerns me, so we're going to have to concentrate on our riding and clearing," noted Corrigan. 
The Air Force team that coach Tom Duggan brings to Notre Dame is one that is 
see LAX/ page 18 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Freshman attackman Kevin Mahoney has been a consistent performer for the Irish all year, and his play will be key in the Irish's game against Air Force today. 
Kobata continues hot
Men's volleyball heads to nationals 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 

After weeks of anticipation and a successful season, the Irish men's volleyball team is on
.. 
its way to the National Club Collegiate Volleyball tourna­ment in Austin, Texas, which will run from today until Satur­day. 
According to Brian Ceponis, the Irish "should win" their first pool. The Irish are seeded No. 2 in their pool behind UC-Davis, with Iowa and Virginia Tech rounding out the pool. 

"We've seen Davis," said Pat Madden, "and we know we can beat them if we play welL" 
The Irish are looking to im­prove on last year's 17th-place finish, hoping to break into the top 10. To do that, they will have to beat some of the top clubs in the nation, such as Cal­Berkeley, Graceland, MIVA champion Ohio State, and Sacramento State. 
To beat those teams, Madden offered a very simple formula. 
"We have to get the ball to Ceponis," Madden said. "That's where passing comes in. If we pass well, Brian gets good balls to hit, and we can go a long way from there." 
If the Irish passing, which has been a trouble spot all year,

..~-caves in again, outside hitters like seniors Madden and Leo Casas will have to step up. The Irish bench may also have to contribute. Freshmen Miguel Ascencio and Bill Haney have shown that they can fill in ably, and veteran Chris Murdy may also be asked to step into the middle blocker position. Murdy, the third Irish senior, was philosophical about his role at Nationals. "I just want us to do well," said Murdy. "If we get on a roll, 
NBA ROUNDUP 

pitching in Irish win · 
By TEDS PETERSON Sports Writer 
Terri Kobata's pitching per­formance yesterday against 

Valpariso was a real I e ,t d o w n compared to start against Dayton on Monday. 
Not that it was a bad 



outing-it's Terri Kobata not easy to be perfect every day. 
Kobata, who threw a no-hit­ter against Dayton three days ago, led the Notre Dame soft­ball team (19-11) to a 4-0 vic­tory with a one-hit complete game shutout at Ivy Field yesterday. The second game of the doubleheader was cancelled in the fourth inning because of rain. 
All of Notre Dame's offensive activity came in the first inning. Sophomore left fielder Liz Goetz, who went 2 for 3, singled to drive in catcher Sara Hayes with the first run of the game. Two batters later, Casey McMurray (2 for 3) doubled to drive in two more runs. Right fielder Lisa Miller's ground out plated the final Irish run. 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Coach Liz Miller noted thatSophomore outside hitter Matt Strottman will lead the Irish in their while she has stressed to herquest for a top-1 0 finish at the Club Nationals this weekend. 
team the importance of jumping we could do really welL There's a chance to try out for the out to an early lead, she was no reason we shouldn't be in Olympic "B" team. Ceponis feels not completely happy with thethe final 16." that his chances are fair. 
offense.

On Sunday, Ceponis will be "The way I'm playing now, I "Our hitting was silent aftertrying out for the Oiympicfest, feel confident about giving them the first inning. We seem toto be held in San Antonio in late a good show," said Ceponis. 
July through early August. If he ''I'm excited...! think if I play lose our aggressiveness after 
makes that squad, Ceponis has see VOLLEYBALL/ page 14 getting an early lead, and that's 
a bad habit to get into. A four­run lead is not out of reach." 
Kobata, on the other hand, was not upset to be the recipi­ent of an early four-run inning. 
"It helps to get offensive sup­port like that in the first inning. You just feel a lot more com­fortable pitching with a 4-0 lead." 
Kobata (7-3) had another no­hitter going into the fifth inning, but Valpariso's Krista Bane broke it up with a solid double. The Irish pitcher allowed only one other batter to reach base (hit by pitch), striking out 12 batters and walking none. 
While Kobata's numbers from the game look imposing on paper, Miller explained that her young pitcher still has room to improve. 
"This was only her second game back [after an eight-day layoff due to injury], so she still hasn't quite settled in yet. She wasn't throwing her pitches exactly where she wanted them." 
The Irish were winning the second game of the double­header 2-0 when the game was called off in the bottom of the fourth inning. 
Senior pitcher Staci Alford battled the whole way, shutting 
Valpariso  out  despite  
deteriorating  weather  
conditions  that  made  the  

pitching mound difficult to work on. 
"We tried to get five innings in to make it official," explained Miller. "But it got to a point where I didn't want to risk any injuries to our team." 
~~~~Wlrn SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Barry Larkin and the Reds 
Robin Yount cannot lead the 
Reggie Miller scores twenty 
to lead the Pacers over the 
fall to the red-hot Phillies. Brewers over the Angels. 
Nets. 

see page 21 see page 20 
see page 22 










