The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 100 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1993 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Day's respite put 
Speaker: Parents
to good use by all 
By BECKY BARNES senior Mike Grogan and junior 

should pick 

Assistant News Editor Kevin McCracken, spent the day building a "snow hut" by While students played snow Saint Mary's Lake. kids' school football, launched snowball 
By ROB ADAMS 

fights and slid on dining hall "It's not an igloo. An igloo is 
News Writer 

trays during yesterday's unex­made of blocks of ice," said 
pected holiday, other members McCracken. 
Parents deserve the right toof the Notre Dame community Gaunt and McCracken spent choose which school their chil­worked around the clock to about an hour and a half piling dren attend, according to Dr.

make sure students and staff up an eight-foot mound of 
Ronald Bowes, director of edu­survived the blizzard. snow. "That's a lot of snow, cational planning and devel­But work was the last thing and my back hurts today be­opment for the Catholic Schools on the minds of most students. cause of it," said Gaunt. 

of Pittsburgh. 

Badin Hall junior Angela After hollowing out the snow • Christopher trip I page 6 
Farah and her friends spent the pile, McCracken and Grogan Bowes lectured Wednesday 
day doing flips off the fences by spent the night in the hut, on, "School Choice: An Advo­
North Dining Hall into snow which they said was surpris­cate's View." 
drifts and sliding down the ingly warm. Bowes said he did not realize steps of the Administration Other students found time to how important a parent's ·Building on dining hall trays. take pictures of both campuses choice was until he chose be­
After a few rounds of snow under their blanket of snow. "I tween two parochial schools 
football and the inevitable snow took a whole roll of film," said and one public school for his 
ball fights, they ended the day Saint Mary's junior Anne own children. Since then he 
with hot chocolate and movies. Heroman. has researched the topic ex­
"It was the best snow day But some University employ­tensively and become a strong 
ever, " said Farah. ees didn't have time to enjoy a advocate of the measure. 
day off. Bowes listed many reasons 
For others, it was their first Members of the landscape why parents deserve to choose 
snow day ever. crew plowed roads, parking lots what schools their children at­
St. Edward's Hall senior Mike and sidewalks during the night tend. In exercising their right 
Gaunt, who lives in Sacra­and day, made "getting rid of to designate a school for their 
mento. has had school canceled the snow" their first priority, The Observer/ Andrea Fisk children, parents also receive 
because of a flood, but never said crew member Bill Klein. the opportunity to become
Winter wonderland 

because of snow. "This is a lot more involved in their chil­more fun." he said. Power plant employees spent dren's schools. 
Enjoying the recent South Bend blizzard conditions, students play inGaunt, along with St. Ed's see SNOW I page 4 

over a foot of snow yesterday. 
see SCHOOLS/ page 4 


Israel is to blame for failed peace talks, professor says 
By ROB ADAMS News Writer 
Peace talks in the Middle East are eroding and Israel is to blame. according to Haim Gordon, a professor at Ben-Gu­rion University in Israel. 
Gordon lectured on "The Prospects of Peace in the Middle East: A Skeptical View" Wednesday at Notre Dame. He blamed Israel for "bogging down on the talks" and cited Is­raeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin as the main reason for Israel's failure to comply with proposals made at recent ne­gotiations. 
The personality and policies of Rabin, th'e lethargic attitude of the "power-hungry" Labor Party, and the attempts of the Meritz Coalition to reform the status quo are the three areas to explore if one is to under­stand why to blame Israel, Gordon said. The Meritz Coali­tion is the party he works with. 
"Rabin is like a typical mili­tary inan who has adapted most of the vices of the military and few of the virtues," Gordon said. "He wants to move without any sort of account for the law." 
"I am very critical of Rabin, but what I say in this lecture is based on information that I have accumulated through my involvement in the coalition," Gordon said. "Rabin is clever. I'll give him that. But he has no sense of justice, he has never spoken out for peace in the Middle East, and while Israel's education system falls apart and its unemployment level rises he still does nothing." 
"Rabin initiated the present Palestinian deportation policy," said Gordon, referring to a re­cent measure in which 400 Palestinians were deported via buses to Lebanon. 
Meanwhile, Labor Party members are only too happy to sit around and implement his policies, according to Gordon. 
"Most of them are concerned with their own individual power struggle," he said. "They are 
see MIDEAST I page 4 

Law symposium to focus on 1991 Civil Rights Act 
By KATIE MURPHY the law students and the News Writer undergraduate student body. Kros said. "The primary 
The Civil Rights Act of 1991 purpose is to provide the law will be the focus of the Notre school student body and Dame Law Review's annual le­faculty with exposure to this gal symposium, a series of lec· area ofthe law by bringing the tures to be held Feb. 26 and 27 top lawy~rs in this field to in the Notre Dame Law School. Notre Dame," 
According to Frank Kros, the "But we really want to en~ symposium editor and a third courage the undergraduate year law student, the Civil students and faculty to come. Rights Act of 1991 is We want them to pick out "extremely important for all of something that strikes them," us to understand." he said. 
The 1991 Act establishes The speakers will address guidelines regulating sexual the various legal and political harassment, affirmative aspects of the act, and share action, racial discrimination, their personal experiences in and "glass ceiling" gender the area of civil rights discrimination in the litigation. 
workplace. The schedule of speakers on 
"If there is one word that de­Friday is as follows: scribes this symposium, it's •8 a.m. Opening Remarks. that it is practical," said Kros. Douglas Kmiec, Notre Dame The Law Review decided to fo­Law Professor. cus on this piece of legislation •8:30 a.m. "The Civil Rights after talking to students and Act of 1991: An Introductory faculty of the Law School, he Analysis." Ronald Rotunda, 
said. University of Illinois law "There are a lot of cases in professor. the courts on this." said Kros. •10 a.m. "The Bush Adminis· The symposium is open to 
see LAW I page 4 
By SANDY WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
Now that the cold war is over, the United Nations is in an ideal position to settle nationalist conflicts within countries, ac­cording to David Cortwright, president of the Fourth Free­dom Forum of Goshen. 
The Fourth Freedom Forum favors the abandonment of nu­clear weapons as diplomatic tools, and advances a "just war" doctrine, describing con­ventional warfare as a justifi­able means of resolving con­flicts under the right conditions. Cartwright, who will speak before the United Nations Association of St. Joseph County Thursday, spoke in an interview. 
"The U.N. has now been freed of the paralysis of the cold war," Cartwright said. "On the other hand there has been a tremendous proliferation of nationalist conflict. It seems to me that this all points to a strengthening of the U.N. as both possible and necessary." 
Cortwright suggested that the United Nations should take a much more active role in na-

Professor says U.N. needs change 

Ideas to be presented before a local group tonight 
tionalist disputes such as that occurring in the former Yu­goslavia today. 
U.S. involvement alone might be counterproductive there, he said. Instead, an international coalition should be· deployed in areas surrounding the site of the fighting, such as Macedonia, and United Nations forces should be given the authority to fight back if attacked. 
"The way the peace keepers are now they can't do any­thing," Cortwright said. "It may be wiser to employ some force now rather than face a regional war of much larger scale later on." 
The United States should continue to play a leadership role in the U.N., as the country did in Somalia, he said, but should not be obligated to de­ploy the majority of the troops sent. 
"If the U.S. doesn't lead, it won't happen. We are the largest and most powerful country," Cortwright said. "But it's not in our interest to keep sending all these troops...Sooner or later we're going to run into another Viet­nam." 
One model for a more equitable deployment of troops in such situations would require that each country allocate a number of divisions which would be prepared to fight for the United Nations if called upon, he said. 
For the United Nations to function properly, major re­forms will have to be imple­mented, Cortwright said. Among them, the structure needs to be updated. For ex­ample, Germany and Japan should be permanent members of the Security Council, as their leaders have expressed a desire to be. This, he said, "would be a statement that power derives not just from possession of nuclear weapons or massive armies, but relates to economic powers." 
The Security Council's per­manent membership should also be expanded to include major powers within the devel­oping world, Cortwright said. 
Such a diverse membership would mean various interests would be represented. One ad-
see U.N. I page 4 

r page 2 Thursday, February 25,1993 
The Observer 

! 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Lent is a time to sacrifice more than radishes 
"llmmm. What 
should it be this year? 
Maybe soda (for you 
Midwesterners, 'pop'). 
Or no ... how 'bout 
radishes? That's a good 
one-I don't even like 
radishes." 
Sadly enough these 
are the conversations 
that go on at this time -------­
of year-Lent. Everyone's running around 
claiming they will give up something "very 
dear" to them, like soda or radishes. 
People please! How much of a sacrifice is it to 
stop having a "coke and a smile," for all of 40 
days? How heart-wrenching would it really be 
to stop putting radishes on your salad, when 
you never do anyway (besides the fact that the 
dining hall hardly puts them out)? 
Lent is a time for a significant sacrifice in our 
lives, bringing us closer to Christ. It is a time 
for kind giving, bringing us closer to Christ. 
Historically, this time of year was used as a 
period of purification and enlightenment for 
those converting to Catholicism. There were 
three themes during this time-the mystery o 
death and of resurrection of Christ, the 
implication of the mystery for those preparing 
for baptism and a spiritual renewal of faith and 
conversation for those already baptized. 
This renewal is what is most important. Lent is not meant to be a sacrifice of something for only 40 days. God does not want an alcoholic sober for the 40 days of Lent and than back to a drunken state for the rest of the year. 
Lent is a fresh start-a rebirth of a life that is supposed to be lived out as Christ would want us to live it. Every year we are given the chance to become closer to God, by sacrificing old ways which are IlJJt Christ-like. . . 
But almost more important than sacrifice are the gifts and blessings which we can hand to others. Christ lived his life giving to others. "Love your brother as you have loved me," he says constantly. Maybe we should vow to take weekly visits to the women's or homeless shelter. Perhaps this is the time for us spend more time with people who have less. 
We need to take advantage of the time which has been given to us. We ought to make resolutions for ourselves that will better who we are and the lives we lead. Maybe we can devote more time to daily scripture readings or simply prayer. 
And not only for 40 days, but for life. The intent of Lent is not temporary sacrifice, but a life-long devotion. 
Lent is a preparation time to ready ourselves for the joys of a new life and the celebration o the Easter mystery. It is an attempt to fashion our whole self to the likes of Christ. 
All through our childhood, we are taught to be a Christ-like as we can be. The only way to do this is to acquire certain Christ-like traits and to give up those which are not. 
We owe it to Christ to try to understand his sacrifice and what it meant to him-and we owe more than sodas and radishes. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News 
Systems Bevin Kovalik 
Matt Carbone Sandy Wiegand 
Production 
Sports Peggy Crooks 
Jonathan Jensen Bryan Nowicki 

f 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
RES 
H L 33 29 54 29 62 39 68 50 20 04 23 18 64 42 22 05 22 03 66 45 45 37 59 48 61 36 06 06 25 14 40 19 37 20 36 25 37 22 52 28 42 28 
2203 52 37 FRONTS: . D.C. 37 24 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressur9 
H L ~'~'~ E;S'J fiii 0 A fxxxi 8 (f 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
: :·. :.: : : : : :.. : .; : : .. : ; :. . 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

•CAPE TOWN, South Africa -A 2-year-old burn victim has become the first child to receive an artificial windpipe, doctors say. Dr. Stephen Westaby, a cardio-thoracic surgeon from the Oxford Heart Center in England, performed the delicate operation on Oslin Williams on 1\Iesday. Westaby, inventor of the artificial windpipe, has performed the operation on more than 100 adults, but never before on a child. Oslin's windpipe was burned when a gas cylinder exploded in his family's trailer home. Scar tissue from the. burns was slowly closing the boy's air pipe, and doctors said he would have had about one month to live. 
NATION 

•CHICAGO -Balding heads may mean vulnerable hearts. A report published today says 21-to 55-year-old men who were severely bald on top were three times more likely to suffer heart attacks than those with full heads of hair. Men with moderate baldness had a 1 1/2 times greater risk. The report on 665 heart-attack victims and 772 men who had suffered no heart attacks appears in The Journal of the American Medical Association. The hypothesis that baldness may predict heart disease goes back more than 25 years, said the researchers, led by author Dr. Samuel Lesko of Boston University School of Medicine's School of Public Health. The reason for the apparent link is still unknown, they said. They speculated that a certain male hormone necessary for baldness to develop may have a role in suppressing "good" cholesterol, which protects the heart. 

OF INTEREST 
•Marist Volunteer Program member Brother Frank Kelly will be at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) today at 4 p.m. to answer questions for those interested in applying to this program. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 24 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 298,833,000 +3.13 to 242.50 

S&P COMPOSITE 
+6.07 to 440.87 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+33.23 to 3,356.50
UNCHANGED 547 

GOLD 
-$2.90 to $331.10 /oz 
SILVER 
-$0.057 to $3.582/oz 
ICE SUNNY CLOUDY 
: ; 
•NEW YORK -Scientists have found a gene that appears to cause the rare disease depicted in the movie "Lorenzo's Oil," a discovery that may help in finding a treatment. The gene would cause the disease when defective. Its chemical makeup suggests that it normally tells cells how to make a chemical shuttle that transports a key enzyme, researchers said. That is a surprise because scientists had suspected that the disease was caused by a defect in the enzyme itself. The disease is called X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, or ALD. In its most severe form, it strikes in childhood and progressively destroys nerve and muscle function, leading to impaired vision and hearing, lo~.s. of .qJ.entaJ facuJ.ties and. pa.ralysi~. rs.o s..t.awiar treatment is known. The title "Lorenzo's Oil" refers to an experimental treatment that so far has shown little evidence of stopping progression of the disease. according to the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation. 
INDIANA 
Anita Hill soeaks oJLoatrjotjsm 
•WEST LAFAYETTE, lncf. -Anita Hill urged a college audience to embrace patriotism by striving to eliminate racism, sexism and inequality when the students moved into positions of influence. Hill, a professor at the University of Oklahoma School of Law, spoke Tuesday night at Purdue University. She did not mention her allegations of sexual harassment against U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas that gripped the nation during his confirmation hearings in October 1991. "I see patriotism as a challenge to give meaning to lofty ideals, not just a word of comfort to convince us everything is comfortable the way it is," Hill said. She presented to her audience the disparity of wages between blacks and whites, the inequity of educational opportunities, and the problems of sexual harassment and poverty. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1570: Pope Pius V excommunicated England's Queen Elizabeth I. 

• 
In 1793: The various department heads of the U.S. gov­ernment met with President Washington at his home for the first Cabinet meeting on record. 

• 
In 1913: The 16th Amendment to the United States Constitution, giving Congress the power to levy and collect in­come taxes, was declared in effect. 

•In 
1986: President Ferdinand Marcos fled the Philippines after 20 years of rule in the wake of a tainted election; Corazon Aquino assumed the presidency. 



_ 

Thursday, February 25, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Dole says economic plan faces trouble in Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole said today the decision by President Clinton and Democratic congressional leaders to schedule early votes on budget cuts showed that Clinton's eco­nomic plan is in trouble in Congress. 
"They know the package is in trouble," Dole, R-Kan., told reporters. "They have to have cover to make it appear they have spending cuts, so they're bringing up the budget resolu­tion first." 
Facing mounting Democratic defections, Clinton and top House and Senate Democrats decided Tuesday evening to de­lay a vote on the president's $16 billion "economic stimulus" spending increases. Many Democrats were balking at a quick vote on boosting spending unless they were also given an early chance to vote for a deficit-reduction package. 
White House spokesman Ge­orge Stephanopoulos said today the decision to delay a vote on the stimulus package was a re­ponse to "a great hunger" in the nation for trimming gov­ernment spending. 
"Both the president and Congress are eager to re­spond," he s_aid. 
Some PeopleThink Nuns Are Always Serious and Unhappy.That's A Laugh. 
SlSTI'RS OF ST. Br;NEDJCT
•
Find out what bting a nun rtaUy mtans. Call Sisttr Rost Mary RtXing at 812-367-1411 
~  ~"  7 Day Delb.rcry  
l@~oJflptt\t\  Roses Balloons  Flowers Plants  
..,.,.,............-..-.­ Gift &  Fruit Baskets  
Clocktower Square  ( 219) 2 7 7 .. 1291O~o_e'<­~  
"1400 31 North  ~"-'(:  

South Bend, IN 46637 ~ 0,~~ 
Mention This Ad and Receive IO'Yo off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 

Judge beating t 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -A jU. . refused to ~Jock til R ney King beating trial\ Wednesday over defense al­legations that a black juror could be biased and a defen­dan~'$. c]aim of attorn.e · colltl.ict. 
The process of selecting al~ te.rnate jurors then began and opening statements re­mained s d Th'Q'l'!id.ay. The ......... 
staye(} home awaiting structions to report to a where they would be se~ questered, ... · 
~ ~dertone ()fta£ialsinn$ came into the 0 when an excused white 

a bla<:k woman 
THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM 
SUBMISSION FOR THE RILEY PRIZE IN ART HISTORY AND CRITICISM ARE INVITED FROM ALL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE AND UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS. ESSAYS MUST TREAT A TOPIC IN ART HISTORY OR CRITICISM. ONLY TOPICS DEALING WITH THE VISUAL ARTS ARE ELIGIBLE. THE PRIZE CARRIES A CASH AWARD OF $300. RULES MAY BE OBTAINED IN ROOM 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
ENTRIES ARE DUE 132 O'SHAUGHNESSY BY 4:00 PM ON WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14 

Pacemaker may be option for Les Aspin 
WASHINGTON (AP) -De­fense Secretary Les Aspin's doctors may implant a pace­maker to relieve symptoms of his chronic heart ailment that has worsened over the past two years, a defense official said Wednesday. 
"It's been generally talked about," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Apparently, that's one of the things that's out there" in looking for ways to treat Aspin's heart condition, which has worsened over the past two years. 
Other options include chang­ing the 54-year-old Cabinet secretary's medication, the of­ficial said. 
Aspin entered Georgetown University Hospital Sunday night for shortness of breath, apparently associated with his heart problem, which officials say has worsened slightly over the past two years. The latest episode was triggered by a ty­phoid inoculation that caused a fever, his doctors have said. 
He suffers from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or a thicken­ing of the heart muscle. A pacemaker would be used to control the intensity of the heart's beat, the defense official said. 
Aspin's spokesman, Vernon Guidry, said Wednesday the secretary was expected to be released from the hospital on Friday. 
:-:: 

PLEDGE AGAINST RACISM 
Prejudice-a judgement or opinion formed before the facts are known. Bigotry -holding blindly and intolerantly to a particular creed or opinion. Racism-a doctrine or teaching without scientific support that claims to find racial differences in character, intelligence, etc., that asserts the 
superiority of one race over another or others and seeks to maintain the supposed purity of a race or races. Stereotype-a fixed or conventional notion or conception of a person, group or idea and allowing for no individuality or critical judgement. 
Ever since this nation was founded -on principles of equality and tolerance-Americans of goodwill from every race and economic class have battled against the ugliness and injustice represented by the words defined above. Here in Michiana, in 1986 a group of people banded together as Community Allies in this fight against racism and the misguided attitudes that feed it. Included among these people were members of the Notre Dame community. 
Professor Ani A prahamian 
Student Body President Greg Butrus Professor Carolye Callahan 
Mari Fuentes, assistant director of Minority Student Affairs Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for Student Affairs 
Professor George Lopez 
University President Father Edward Malloy 
Dennis Moore, Director of Public Relations 
Roger Mullins, director of Human Resources 
Iris Outlaw, director of Minority Student Affairs Professor Eskine Peters Dr. Roger Schmitz, vice president and associate 
provost Dr. Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president 
Our campus is no refuge from, nor is our community immune to the problems of racism. That is why we now invite the men and women of Notre Dame to join in our effort. 
The recently-formed University Committee on Cultural Diversity has taken a Pledge Against Racism. Our pledge is two-fold: To foster and encourage communication and understanding among people of all races, and to oppose, individually and as a group, all manifestations of racism, prejudice, bigotry and stereotyping. 
Our names are below. Won't you add your voice to our pledge by returning the attached coupon? There is absolutely no obligation-except the respect each of us owes to our fellow human beings. 
proii;ii;it;; rid"~~~{~,fp7eF;cii~:-bTg-;t?y:-ri"d~~ i"n'd ";t~~iYP'inga~d-t~ -l 
1work to enhance racial understanding in our community. Please add my name 1 
Ito this pledge to be published in The Observer. 
I  I  
:  306 Main Building  Name  :  
1  Notre Dame, Ind. 46556  1  
I  Address  I  
I1  City/State /Zip  I1  

L-------------------------------------~
Presented as a Public Service by The Observer 


----~~------~----~--------------------------------------------------~----------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, february 25, 1993 
Skiers survival result of determination and circumstance 



Snow 
continued from page 1 
the day making sure campus 
continued from page 1 
buildings received enough heat and hot water, but they do that every day, said assistant direc­tor of the plant Ed Keeve. 
Notre Dame Security helped several students to jump-start 
t e1r situatiOn m t government and they don't 
want it to change." 
The Meritz Coalition, on the their cars, but the snow did not cause any additional problems for the department, said assis­tant director Phil Johnson. 
Since this is the first time the 
"We've been fighting for 
University has shut down be­cause of snow in 15 years. it is difficult to estimate the cost of the shut-down, said director of human resources Roger Mullins. 
ts, women s 
recently we've been concen­trating on the peace talks." he 
Direct costs include extra pay for landscape crews and dining hall workers, but indirect costs are more difficult to estimate, he said. 
sa1 . e nee to put more pressure on Rabin and the La­bor Party in order to get them going again." 

(AP) Through four subzero nights, across Taylor Pass at 12,000 feet, even when his gloves and boots were drenched in water that would soon turn to ice, Ken Torp knew he wouldn't die in the Rocky Mountains. 
That cocky confidence, that dubious leap of faith. may have saved his life and those of his friends. Conventional wisdom suggested the group of five cross-country skiers had been lost too long to survive. 
Rescuers gave the group a 1­in-10 chance. But the miracle of survival has to do with more than odds. It depends on variables: circumstance and spirit, personality and skill, luck and determination. 
"There was no question in our minds at any point that we weren't going to make it," Torp said. Added his companion Elliott Brown: "We both deter­mined we were not going to die out there. We just knew we wouldn't." 
They were right: Torp, 50, who was chief of staff for former Colorado Gov. Richard Lamm, and Brown, 43, a metallurgist, showed up Tuesday at a remote trading post about 30 miles south of Aspen and called for help from a pay phone. 
Hours later and about 15 
miles away, Brigitte Schluger, 50, an art gallery owner, Rob Dubin, 38, and his wife, Dee, 
40,  owners  of  a  video  
production  company,  were  
rescued by helicopter.  

They ate snow to inhibit dehydration and battled the chill by burrowing into the snow. 


Schools 
continued from page 1 
Giving the parents the right 



U.N. 
continued from page 1 
vantage to this would be a less­ened tendency toward alliances between countries which might to choose supports the public interest. extends opportunities to the poor and disadv.antaged, and insures real accountability to parents, Bowes said. 
otherwise constrict the United Nations, he said. And the U.N. would resort to military means "only when there is a degree of unanimity on threats to secu­rity." 
He cited the international 
School choice promotes di­versity and may save tax dol­lars, he said. He added that this constitutional right is based on common sense and public 
condemnation of the Iraqi in­vasion of Kuwait as an indica­tion that such unanimity is pos­sible. 
Cortwright is a visiting faculty fellow at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at principles. 
"Our current system is not working and many districts are on the brink of destruction," 
Notre Dame, and was executive director of SANE, a leading or­ganization working against nu­clear arms buildup, from 1977 to 1987. In 1987. he initiated the merger between SANE and the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign, which he described Bowes said. "The intellectual game is over; the state should want the populous to be edu­cated, it shouldn't want to run the educational business." 
as "a grass roots network" with goals similar to those of SANE. Cartwright will speak at 7:30 
p.m. 
Thursday at the First United Methodist church, 333 

N. 
Main Street in South Bend on "The United Nations: What it Takes to Make it Work." 



Law 
continued from page 1 
tration and the 1991 Civil Rights Act: An Irresistible Force Meets a Movable Object." Neal Devins. College of William and Mary law professor. 
•11:15 a.m. "Affirmative Ac­
tion After the Civil Rights Act of 1991." Glen Nager, partner in the Washington D.C. firm Jones. Day, Peavis and Pogue.
•2 p.m. "litigation of a Sexual 
Harassment Case: Post Civil 

University of Notre Dome Department of Music presents ... 

American composer 

Lukas Foss 

lecture • discussion and concert 

Sunday, Feb. 28, 1993 8:00P.M. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Meet a Master at Notre Dame ·confessions of a 2oth Century Composer" 
lecture/discussion with Lukas Foss Free and open to the public 
Tuesday, March 2 8:00P.M. Washington Hall 
Lukas Foss in concert with con tempo, Notre Dame's contemporary chamber music ensemble 
including works by: Foss, Haimo and Colgrass Tickets: $5; $2 for students and age 65 or over For information, cal1631-8128 
Rights." President Emeritus of the University Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
The speakers on Saturday are as follows: 
•8:30 a.m. "The Discrimina­tory Creation, Manipulation, Misinterpretation and Myth of 

r--------------------------...... .----------=f----::-b---::-l--------?-----, 

2nd Annual 

0 'MALLEY UNDERGRADUATE TCACHlNG A IAIJl RD
1 
c;;,, VVM 
Needed: Freshman through Seniors from all undergraduate schools to Select this year's recipient. 
How to apply: Obtain forms in Student Government, on the 2nd floor of Lafortune and return forms by March 3. 
Any questions? Call Megan at 271-8888 

Sponsored by Student Government and the Alumni Association. 
Legislative Intent: Reflections on the 1991 Civil Rights Act." Eric Schnapper, assistant counsel for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. 
•10 a.m. "Disparate Impact Claims Under the New Title VII." Michael Carvin, partner in 
the  Washington,  D.C.  firm  
Shaw,  Pittman,  Potts,  and  
Trowbridge.  

Students and faculty are wel­come to attend Friday's dinner and keynote address. Tickets are available at the Law Review 
A TER UR AN P UNyE, WHAT.
b l 
"OUR REspONSi i iTiES TO THE INNER CiTy'' 
BART CAM polo 
· 
DiRECTOR, KiNqdOMWORks
7 
p. M · FRidAy, FEbRUARY 2 6 
CENTER foR SociAl CoNCERNS 
spONSOREd by INTERVARsiry CHRisTiAN FEI/owsl-tip 
HEALING AND THE MIND 
WITH BILL MOYERS 
6:30 TONIGHT 
Center for Continuing Education 
Excerpt from the series shown, followed by informal discussion groups. Introduction by Dr. George Howard, Professor of Psychology. Hosted by WNIT Public Television . Series funded by the Fetzer Institute . : ' 
office, and students are eligible for a discount. All other events are free of charge. The lectures will take place in the William Barry Courtroom of the Law School. 

~~-~-­
Thursday, February 25, 1993 rne Observer page 5 


Congress tries to cut violence against women 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A fresh congressional drive was launched Wednesday to pass long-stalled legislation aimed at reducing violence against women. 
"We're here today to say we've had enough," said Rep. Constance Morella, R-Md., head of the violence task force of the Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues. 
Morella and Rep. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, co-chair­woman of the caucus, were the Republicans at a news confer­ence to promote the "Violence Against Women Act of 1993." Democrats included Sen. Joseph Biden, chairman of his chamber's Judiciary Commit­tee, Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D­Colo .. co-chairwoman of the women's caucus and Rep. Charles Schumer, chairman of the House Judiciary subcom­mittee on crime. 
Sponsors contended the bill is needed because a woman is raped every six minutes in the United States. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -School districts may not ban religious groups from meeting -and even holding services -at school facilities after hours if non-religious meetings are al­lowed, the Supreme Court was told today. 
"The atheists are in, the ag­nostics are in, the communists are in, but religion is not in," said attorney Jay Alan Sekulow, who represents a church chal­lenging a New York school dis­trict's ban on religious meet­ings. 
"This is the type of viewpoint discrimination that this court has not sanctioned," Sekulow said. 
But attorney John Hoefling said the Central Moriches school district on Long Island had the right to bar religious meetings from its facilities. 
"There are good reasons for 

The Observer/ Brian McDonough  the school district to have a  
Working out  distinction between religious  
speakers and non-religious 
Notre Dame students assist each other in lifting weights at the  speakers - avoiding contro­ 
Rockne Memorial as they work to get in shape for spring break.  versy, allowing the school dis- 


Court: Schools can't ban religious group meetings 
trict to be about the principles of educating the children en­trusted to its care," Hoefling said. 
The case was one of two ar­gued before the high court to­day that will let the justices re­assess the dividing line between religion and public education. 
The' second case, from Ari­zona, raises the issue of whether a deaf parochial school student is entitled to the pub­licly financed sign-language in­terpreter he would receive if he attended public school. 
The court is expected to rule in both cases by July. 
Hoefling argued that the New York school district could bar religious meetings while still allowing groups with an anti­religious viewpoint, such as communists or atheists. 
Hoefling said the district was concerned that allowing reli­gious meetings would violate the Constitution's establishment clause by allowing an excessive government entanglement with religion. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 

Preparing to Learn Again 
At a liturgy planning meeting earlier this week, a young woman said to us all, "Every year I announce that I will give up chocolate for Lent, and every year it turns out to be such a bust. This year I think I'm gonna try and do something different." Unfortunately, lleft that meeting too early. I wish now I had stayed long enough to find out what that pious co-ed actually chose to try to do this year. I hope she has found something meaningful for herself, for Lent is a season that brings a worthy challenge to us all. 
Yesterday was Ash Wednesday, the traditional beginning of the Christian season of Lent. The New York Ttmes printed an interesting article on its back pages which noted that throughout the United States these days, more and more Christian churches, especially from amongst the mainline Protestant denominations, are adopting the traditional Catholic practice of marking themselves with ashes as a way of reverencing the beginning of the holy season of Lent. 
People love a day when you can get something free. For Holy Communion, you have to be baptized. You're supposed to be in the state of grace. For Confirmation, you need to be a certain age. You ought to believe in the Creed. For Holy Orders, they teach us you have to be a man. 
But to be marked with ashes and enter the season of Lent, all you need to do is show up. Hear the reminder of mortality. Hear the challenge to new life. Stand with the sinful people of God. Try to pay attention to your life. 
Scripture tells us that Jesus Himself was led off into the desert for forty days, as a time of testing and preparation for his public ministry. Our forehead crosses of ash begin forty Lenten days when we too are hopefully led -to take our own lives more seriously and to live more consciously and faithfully our own particular Christian callings. 
It's really a time to pay attention. 
The traditional practices of Lent are fasting, prayer, and the giving of alms. Each invites us to a closer scrutiny of our lives and a deeper surrender to God. 
The call for fasting challenges us to look at our dependencies, our habits of consumption, our needy constructs of avoidance. In the desert, Jesus fought the temptations of power, and pride, and possession. During Lent, we are called to stop filling our empty hearts with false Gods and fancy distractions, so that we can come to know ourselves more honestly as people in real need of one thing only -love. 
Our true need is to live in conscious relationship with God. The Lenten challenge to prayer is an invitation to bring our relationship with God to awareness often and to allow our relationship with God to shape our lives more fully. Quiet walks, reading the Gospels, saying the Rosary, whatever we can do to remember God's love more frequently, these things we should do. Attending daily Mass is a great Lenten practice, and around here pretty easy to schedule. I doubt that there is anywhere on the globe where so many little Masses are said so very often within such remarkably short distances of one another. Great numbers of people in many parts of this world wait long and travel far for the opportunity to share the Holy Eucharist. Around here, we take a lot for granted. 
The attentiveness of Lent will necessarily remind us of how gifted and blessed we are. Traditional Lenten emphasis on the giving of alms only underlines our constant call to act in love of our neighbor. To set aside some of our spending money for the poor, to use our talents in some kind of voluntary service, to work for the coming of a more just society -these yearlong Christian demands are clearly also seasonal requirements as we seek to free ourselves more fully for the love of God. 
In the end, it's all about the love of God and becoming more and more able to accept it. Giving up chocolate, working for the poor, stumbling downstairs for weeknight Mass -whatever it takes to catch on -Crucifixion and Resurrection will teach again. Lent is our time to get ready, so that we might be able to learn. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. February 27  5:00p.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
Sun. February 28  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C.  


SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Genesis 2, 7,9; 3, 1, 7  
2ND READING  Romans 5, 12,19  
GosPEL  Matthew 4, 1,11  


page o 1ne uoserver II lUI ::iUay, rt:UIUdl y .:::0, I ::1::1.) 
Somalis 

Mideast meetings end, show anger 
but no plans for talks 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Secre* Christopher said, 

with troops 
tary of State Warren Christo· Privately, a senior Clinton pher concluded week·long administration. 9fficial said

MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) ­
talks in the Middle East on after tWo daysoftalks with the

Somalis hurled rocks at U.S.­
Wednesday without a date for

Ied troops, built fiery barri­
resuming Arab·Israeli

cades and attacked two em­
negotiations.

bassies Wednesday to protest a 
But he said after meeting

victory by a rival warlord who 
with Israeli and Palestinian

they say was helped by the 
leaders that he hoped to reach
coalition forces. 
the goal within weeks, or even

fleports put casualties at up 
days.

to five Somalis killed and 15 
Christopher left behind with 

wounded. At least two U.S. 
the Palestinians undisclosed

Marines were also wounded. 
U.S, proposals to overcome a

Maj. Ken Roberts, a U.S. mil­
nagging dispute over Israel's Chairm~n

itary spokesman, said there 
exile of some 400 Palestinians 

were no reports of allied troops 
suspected of links to a violent

killing or wounding any Soma­
fundamentalist group called the officia

lis. But one U.S. soldier speak­
terroristHamas.

ing on condition of anonymity 
The Palestinians' Art({ y~t.

said his group killed two Soma­
spokeswoman. Hanan Amexiea

lis and wounded several others. 
Ashrawi, said they were rulestbB;t

The rioting forced relief 
"worth looking into'' and said <:ill

workers to take shelter in their 
would be transmitted to the Pale

compounds and halted virtually 
Palestine liberation Organfza,. very

all aid work in the capital. 
tion in Tunis for evaluation; stnict:J.vt}

The violence could delay 
Christopher stressed, bow~ ·

plans for a U.N. force to take 
ever, that he would not push fly to Gen.

over peacekeeping duties from 
Israel to make concessions. "I make vn:fi

the 17,000 U.S. troops and 
am not in the business of pres· 
their allies. 
suring the Israelis to do any,.

Hundreds of screaming 
thing." he said, standing Palest~.

youths hurled stones, lumber 
alongside Prime Minister

and scrap metal at allied tanks, 
Yitzhak Rabin after they had 

armored personnel carriers 
met for 90 minutes. tries

and jeeps that rolled through 
"It's a government that takes wanted

thick smoke from burning tires 
actions in its own interests;' resumed.
in central Mogadishu. 




CollEGE REpublicANS 
WE ARE CORdiAlly iNViTiNq All CURRENT MEMbERS ANd All THOSE iNTERESTEd TO ATIENd THE fiRST MEETiNq UNdER NEW ANd iMpROVEd lEAdERSHip 
MoNTGOMERY THEATRE LAFORTUNE THURSdAy, FEbRUARY 2 5 6:~0 p.M. 
Notre Dame C presents 
A serious c 
Washln~ton Hall 

8:10p.m. tO p.m. to p.m. tO p.m. MMII~S(JIII..:t0 p.m. 
lll"'iiilllll'llfJVCJilable Wednesday, ~~~~~~"~J&:J· at the LaFortune
call: 631-8128. 
Palestinians Christopher "really doi:Jsn't know· where they are" on resuming the ne~ gotiations that were sus* pended lastDecember. · 
Christopher also "m;tde it clear" to the .Palestinians that the U.S. dial~Jgue with the PLO was rtotheingresumed. 
Nor, .the se~or official said, would 9~ri$topber talk to 
Yasser . A,:afat. though }le }l;ts received and read two PLOJetters•. The Pl.O, 
· •, ··~wears the 
· · ·q;·i•·· · 
· · 
.... 
As .<;:ljrtst~lib~ · . . (Qr lt f,J.s~-. 
Russian summit, it .was elear the nextniove was up to the · . 
Tb.e sehior. said the leaders ofallt<e Arab coun~ .Christqpher.. ·visited t.:b.e •·· peace talks 

Hurry!
Only 1 House Left 
·4 Bedroom 
·Security System 
·Fully Furnished 
287-4989 
laurie McKelvey 
$100 off 
first months rent with this ad 
Serbian military leaders question U.S. airdrop plan 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­in the harsh winter weather. govina (AP)-Yugoslavia's mil­Miro Jaran, a Sarajevo resi­itary brass accused Washington dent, echoed Muslim hopes and on Wednesday of planning to Serb fears: "With this, I can see use an airdrop to Bosnia as a the final end of the war. Serbs prelude to Western military in­will shoot American planes and tervention. then Americans will bomb their 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan army posts." Karadzic called the plan "a The airdrop is intended pri­dangerous mission designed to marily to help 100,000 Muslims put new pressure on the in eastern Bosnia cut off from Serbs," said the Tanjug news aid by Serbs. agency, based in the Yugoslav But moving to quell Serb capital of Belgrade. But his anxieties and protect American commanders welcomed the fliers, Washington said aid plan if it meant Serbs would re­would also be dropped over ceive some of the food. territory controlled by Serbs 
Karadzic said his forces would and Croats. It also abandoned not fire at U.S. planes, but that plan to have warplanes escort he thought Bosnian the relief planes. government troops would, Bel­The Yugoslav military's gen­grade television reported. eral staff predicted Serbs would 
Bosnian radio said news of receive none of the dropped aid the airdrop was "raising hopes" and mentioned the "almost in­thousands of lives could be credible desire for American saved as food and fuel dwindle cargo planes to be shot down." 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION a THEATRE PRESENTS THE BEST IN STUDENT FILM a VIDEO 
T H E 







S T U D E N T 
F I l M s H 0 w 
y
s A T u R D A F E B R U A R Y 2 7 7 3 0 A N D 9 4 5 A T T H E s N T E 
I
.) N T B E L I E V E 
U R I I I I I S 
·-­Spring Break Loan 
• $300 minimum, $300 maximum 
• Deferred payments • 9.3% APR 
• Students with good credit or no credit qualify No co-signer needed. Bring your student I.D. 
"Good For You" 
0 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Independent of the University 

~---------~~-------·-· 
~ IJ( :I '-" ••Jt-




Viewpoint 

Thursday, February 25, 1993 page 7 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Edltor...................... David Kinney Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor... Anna Marie Tabor 
1992 


Thursday's Verse 
Landscape 
this istf}.e quiet Ian~; itsl~~ts · ...................•..... 
beneatn green C9J1Crete:while minds harness madness and love (do youlove do you do love saysou love) i am ln:truding he,re•..thoughi · · w .\!v e . . .. hl~ ey~s
watch silently, concerned and I~, the ntinds;behint'bt)l~mlaugh• (do yQu lov(;) do: Y9U. (lo love sa:y you love)
trod e · ··· .··.... ···········. y, . . .. per
desir label< .&fine and th:us dismiss there are no wordfi between uS~ for 
they · s · · atth ot 
Qoy(;)
unde 
(only 
liaw and death within the minds) and thereis within this land hunger for ~noV\' ey<tnd eQmprehe:n!iic;.m. speech beyond wo~s bl!fit. tl;e!J,~t~:,\ :.. TW . itisd ··.· ....··. en~,< .·. t: . ···.·········· in the land that hums with madness from the lack of (love lovt:l say youl()ve do you dolove say yon love)
life. · 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through 
letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  AccenVSaint Mary's  
Managing EditorNiewpoint  631-4541  Day Editor/Production  
Business Office  631-5313  Advertising  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/OTS  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Civility should replace intolerance 
Dear Editor: 
"Whereas it is essential that there be maintained in the armed service of the United States the highest standards of democracy, with equality of treatment and opportunity for all those who serve in our coun­try's defense:" 
President Harry ~-Truman 
I de-segregated the military with those words in Executive Order 9981 on July 26, 1948. In 1976, Congress mandated that military service academies ad­mit women. I directly benefitted from both decisions. I am a heterosexual woman of color, a 1982 graduate of the United States Air Force Academy, and a former officer in the United States Air Force. 
Earlier this month, I read in the South Bend Tribune (Gunnar Jenson, Michiana Point of View, Feb. 8) that as a black or as a woman I should be offended by the comparison of the arguments currently used to exclude homosexuals from the military with the arguments formerly used to exclude blacks and women. One of my Notre Dame Law School classmates also informed me that I should be offended. I am not offended by this analogy. I am, however, deeply offended by the arrogance of my classmate, a white male former military officer in telling me how I should feel about this or any is­sue. 
I support President Clinton's plan to end the official oppres­sion of a minority group's con­stitutional right. 
The Equal Protection clause 
DOONESBURY 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager........ Colleen Evale Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth OTS Director -----------·---·-----Dan Shinnick Controller........................ David Beliveau 
631-4540 631-5303 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 

of the Fifth Amendment man­dates that persons similarly sit­uated be treated equally. The Supreme Court's minimum standard to uphold legislative or executive action that classi­fies people is the "rational ba­sis" test. To discriminate against gays and lesbians, the Department of Defense must prove that its policy is reason­able and rationally related to its permiss"ible objectives. The military claims that the ban against homosexuals is ra­tionally related to the goal of maintaining discipline, good order and morale, and fostering mutual trust and confidence. I disagree. 
One of the first lessons I learned in my military career was that discipline was paramount. I obeyed the orders of my superiors. Why is it that the military is reiuctant to follow the orders of the Commander-in-Chief? 
In World War II, colored sol­diers and white soldiers were segregated because the War Department felt it would "be destructive to morale and detrimental to the preparations for national defense." Some heterosexual service members may not feel that they can trust a homosexual or that they wouldn't want to take orders from a gay or a lesbian. In 1948, it was said that no white man would ever take orders from a black one. 
More significantly, should the ignorance or intolerance of one group serve as a rational rea­son to discriminate? The Supreme Court recognized in Palmore v. Sidoti 466 U.S. 429 
LOS AN0~1GS 


(1984) the reality of prejudice and bigotry but maintained that private prejudices and the pos­sibility of resulting injury can­not justify discrimination. 
Military members claim that in times of war or crisis, homo­sexuals and heterosexuals can­not fight together effectively because of sexual tensions. Yet, the military suspended admin­istrative discharges of gays and lesbians during the. Persian Gulf conflict. This "stop-loss" order resulted in homosexuals defending our country and risking their lives only to return to face discharge proceedings once the crisis had subsided. 
Fear of racial tensions kept World War II troops segregated. Fear of sexual tensions kept women from serving in certain military occupations. The Persian Gulf crisis also il­lustrates that concerns about privacy can be assuaged. The military made accommodations for male and female service members who shared sleeping areas and the same shower facilities. 
In a volunteer Armed Forces, the concerns for morale, order, and discipline, do not warrant discrimination against homo­sexuals. Conduct that affects the military mission should be prohibited and punished. Igno­rance and intolerance -about race, gender and sexual orien­tation -should be replaced with knowledge and civility. 
Kathryn L. Sullivan Fischer Graduate Residences Feb.22,1993 
y•s Vers~. 
oxQ 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 46556 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 





Accent 


Professional scenery 
and design add to 
Saint Mary's theater 
By KARA PAVLIK 
Accent Writer 

In the past der.ade, musir.al produr.tions have been rare 
on Saint Mary's r.ampus. So as the r.ollege prepared for 
"Oklahoma." its first musical in seven years, new elements 
were added to the sr.hool's theatrical production staff, 
inducting sr.eneographer Shaun Wellen. 
Wellen is the first person to hold a full-time position 
conr.entrating on the representation of scenery in a 
production at Saint Mary's. All of the design components 
in the show are under his jurisdiction, inducting lights, 
sound, and costumes. 

"Traditionally we have hired outside people to design 
our sets," said Dennis Andres. director of Special Events. 
"We haw found an in-house sceneographer to be to our 
advantage because he is there to implement his designs 
with time and energy." 

In previous years, the college has hired temporary 
sr.eneographers from Chir.ago to design the scenery and 
local carpenters to actually build the designs. Wellen 
accomplishes both tasks by designing the sets in the actual 
environment in which they will be later displayed. To 
bring the designs from paper to concrete sets, Saint Mary's 
students were hired to do the majority of the construction. 
"Most people were very surprised when they heard that 
so r.alled 'girls' were actually building most of the 
scenery," Wellen said. "But I was dealing with a Jack of 
experience, not a problem of gender." Wellen said he had 
faith that a complex set could be built and accepted as 
part of the show, but he did doubt if it could be accom­
plished in such a short time. 
"It wasn't crazy to me to build a complicated set, but my 
question was whether I could do it in a matter of six 
weeks," Wellen said. 

Having a strong continuity between the scene design and 
the construction enabled the staff to build realistic sets in­
cluding a 25 foot windmill, a barn that divides in two on 
stage, and a smoke house with beams extending into the 
audience. 

Unlike previous shows, the audience can see the work 
accomplished back stage in "OKlahoma" equally as well as 
the work of the actors on the stage. An overall benefit has 
been a more professional quality to the show, according to 
those involved in the production. 
"For the first time since I've been here, we have a show 
with professional sets," said Maria Brennan, a Saint 
Mary's senior. "We are no longer dealing with an amateur 
production." 

Wellen has passed on much of his knowledge about the 
theater to his student workers, allowing them to 
accomplish difficult tasks with little instruction. 
"I never thought l could look at a blueprint and be able to build a flat without someone telling me step-by-step what to do," said Saint Mary's freshman Kathleen Conrad. "I feel very independent in the scene shop. yet Shaun has something new to teach me every day." 
The sets have also assisted "Oklahoma" director, James Birder, to add levels to his blocking on stage. Since many of the scenes have an upstairs and a downstairs to them, there is much more room on stage for the actors to interact with one another. 
"The scenery has given me more spaces and a greater variety of playing space while blocking," Birder said. "~~xpanding bloeking possibilities makes the moving ptctun~ that much more enjoyable for the audience." 
The production staff hopes that strong visuals on stage will improve the audilmce's satisfaction with the musical an_d lead to greatf!r support of the performing arts. A pnmary goal of thn staff is to reorganize the theatre's existing support. 
"Wf\ want everyone to be aware of our new credibility with the seenery," Andres said. "Before, we did not have a qualified trained professional. only someone with the knowledgP of a craft." 
With new emphasis on stage visuals and the backstage production, the theater department believes it ean create a new precedent. The scenery for "Oklahoma" and future shows will operate on standards previously unknown to the college. With a complete production staff on and ofT stage, the options are endless for future projects. 
"It's definitely a new era for Saint Mary's theater," Wellen said. "Jiopefully everyone here, at Notre Dame, and the community will know quality theater is possible at Saint Mary's." 

· The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
The mus1cai"Oklahoma" opens tonight at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
'Oklahoma:· Alook at the story 


behind the music 
By CLAUDIA TUDISCO AND As in any typical story of the South Bend community to Joeal MARA DIVIS American West, however, they high school students, have Accent Writers face opposition from the reality worked well together and 
of a darker world in their own without animosity, Birder said. backyard in the form of J ud, "There's a really goodHere's everybody's chance to 
see "Oklahoma"-no not the played by Gary Cappelletti, a chemistry," he said. "You don't hired hand who Jives in a always get that. They're a real
state, but the musical. 
Performers from Saint Mary's, smokehouse on Laurey's pleasure to work with. There's family's farm. a lot of spirit and energy." 
Notre Dame, and members of 
Jud shows romantic interest The innovations in set designthe surrounding community will 
in Laurey, although he works and scenery particularly
bring Rodgers and 
for the farm, and Laurey, in her enhance this year's production, 
Hammerstein's musical 
"Oklahoma" to Saint Mary's innocent naivete, is enticed by Birder said. The set includes a his attention to her, according two-level wooden farm house
stage tonight, according to 
to Pugliese. and wooden windmill built
director James Birder, visiting assistant professor of theater at "Laurey grows from entirely by students under the 
Saint Mary's. childhood to adulthood direction of scenographer and throughout the play ... " Pugliese technical director Shaun
"Oklahoma" has primarily 
as said. "It's (her attraction to Jud) Wellen.
been produced solely a 
aspect of her growing up
musical in the past. However, an The constructions create an 
and exploring." image of openness and space on
Saint Mary's production has 
One of the underlying themes the stage, while the dark,strived to emphasize the story 
of this story can be seen with constricted smokehouse wherebehind the music, for the play's the prejudice between the Jud Jives creates an impression50th anniversary year. 
cowboys and the farmers. This of confinement, for example, theme examines obstacles that Birder said. 
Aside from the light musical the different classes must "The visual elements enhanceaspects obvious to the audience, 
overcome. What each the big plains and farm scene,"
this production focuses on a deeper story line, Birder said. character must overcome Birder said. "It creates a 
brings the real west to the subliminal mood that's
"In a lot of musical theater shows, the focus is on song and audience. necessary for the moods and 
At the play's dramatic feelings that are part ofdance with the light 
conclusion, the characters' undercurrent of the story." 
entertainment value," Birder 
realization of their lives evolve
said. "In addition to that, we're 
trying to bring focus to the into a greater understanding of All prep crews, including story, as well. We're trying to life, society, and coming of age eostume r.reators, set designers, balance the two." in the Old West. and the lighting erews, are Each actor has adapted to the comprised of Saint Mary's and
The plot centers on the 
style of speech and Notre Dame students, Birder
relationship between Curly, 
colloquialisms of the turn-of­said.
played by Notre Dame 
the-century American west, "Oklahoma" debuts tonight atsophomore Francis Kelly, and 
according to cast members. 8 p.m. in O'LaughlinLaurey, played by Saint Mary's "We're (the cast) like family," Auditorium and runs throughjunior Anne Pugliese. The two 
have grown up on the farms of said Saint Mary's freshman Saturday, Feb. 27 at 8 p.m. with the expansive plains of Sarah Sullivan, a member of the a matinee on Sunday, Feb 28 Oklahoma. The innocence of 
chorus. "These people have and 2:30. Tickets are $12 for their relationship mirrors the become the characters." the public and $5 with Saint 
The actors, who range from Mary's or Notre Dame studentwide open space and freedom 
students to members of the I.D.
of the countryside. 

--~--------~-~-~ --.c--. 
Accent

Thursday, February 25, 1993 page 9 
By RICK ACKER 
Accent Writer 
Rick Acker just returned from a semester of studying EC law at the University of Oslo. Norway. He is currently doing research at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Voss, Norway, has a population of about 25,000, which makes it one of the 20 largest cities in the country. The town's inhabitants, called "Vossings," are known for their athletic abilities, particularly as skiers. But Voss' most famous athlete was not a skier-he played football. His name was Knufe Rockne. 
Knut Rokne {the original spelling of his name) left Voss in 1893 at the age of five. Over the next 38 years he would revolutionize the game of football as a player and coach. 
As a player, Rockne was instrumental in developing the forward pass, which until then had been considered only a novelty play like the fela-flicker. As a coach he compiled a record of 105-12 and won five national championships in a mere 13 seasons. 
When he found the sport of football. it was a little known and highly dangerous version of rugby. 
When he left it, it was the sophisticated and extremely popular game we know today. 
Rockne, the primary architect of this football revolution, was even more popular than the sport he came to symbolize. His death in a plane crash in 1931 was mourned the world over. His funeral was the first live global broadcast in history. 
Rockne was eulogized by two United States presidents, Herbert Hoover and Calvin Coolidge. Coolidge, notoriously stingy with both words and praise, called Rockne a "great man, an inspiring leader and a profound teacher." He was, as 

Virtually unknown in his homeland, Rockne made an impact on America and the game of football 


one columnist put it, "the great prophet of the gridiron." 
A prophet, however, is never honored in his homeland, and Rockne is no exception. During my recent stay in Norway, I took an informal survey by asking "Who is the best known Norwegian in America?" and "Who was Knute Rockne?" Asking these questions to dozens of Norwegians from all walks of life, I received blank looks from nearly all of them. 
They generally guessed that the best known Norwegian was Grieg (composer), Ibsen (playwright), or Quisling (Nazi), and that Rockne was a Danish writer. 
Even in Rockne's home region, Vestlandet, his name is only recognized by a select few who had been exchange students in America. 
But Americans are almost as uninformed about Rockne's ethnicity as Norsemen. 
His name, for instance, in not pronounced "Newt Rocknee," but "Kah-noot Rohk-neh," and Rockne fought a losing battle 
throughout his entire life against genial American mispronunciation. He even changed his name from Knut Rokne to Knute Rockne to avoid being called "Nut Rooken." 
People were also confused about his nationality. 
In one speech at Notre Dame, for instance, he joked "What's the only thing dumber than a dumb Irishman? A smart Swede." His humor may have been more accurate than he knew because most of his audience didn't get the joke. 
Many people thought he was Swedish, or at least did not realize that there was any real difference between Norwegians and Swedes (either of these mistakes can still cause serious physical injury in Norwegian bars today). 
Finally, many people don't know that Rockne was a devout Lutheran for most of his life. There were no Catholics in Rockne's family, and probably none within 200 miles of his birthplace. Even today there are three times as many Catholics at Notre Dame as there are in the entire country of Norway. 
Lutheranism runs as deep in religious Norwegians like Rockne as Catholicism does in devout Italians. The Norwegian Lutheran Church has been the official state church of Norway for 500 years and Rockne, like all Norwegians, automatically became a member of it at birth. 
Rockne did not convert to Catholicism until 1925, after he had been at Notre Dame for 15 years. 
Surprisingly, a Norwegian cable channel, "Sportchan­nel," has begun carrying tape delayed Notre Dame football games with Swedish commentary, which is very similar to the Norwegian language. 
Rockne's countrymen still do not understand the finer points of the game and are unaware of his contributions to it. But they're learning. 
One of my fellow students at the University of Oslo, for example, watched the Boston College game last fall. Afterwards she told me that she hadn't understood everything, but that it was exciting and "a total outclassing-the Notre Dame players just kept pushing the Boston College players down." 
Knute Rockne of Voss, Norway, would have been proud. 


Albee to discuss state of American Theater 
By KATIE MURPHY 
Accent Writer 
As a child, Edward Albee showed promise as an author and dramatist. lie began seeing plays at age five and began writing at age six-first poetry, then fiction, including two unpublished novels. 
Tonight Albee will share his talent with the Notre Dame community as the final speaker of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Albee, long acclaimed by critics as "America's most important dramatist still writing," is known world-wide for his play "Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf." Translated into many foreign languages and one of the most frequently performed plays in recent time, it was even made into a movie starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor. 
Albee won a Pulitzer prize for his play "A Delicate Balance." Critic Max Lerner characterized it as a play portraying " ... the prim disease of our time and our society, which is neither violence nor materialism nor alienation, but quite simply emptiness." 
He won a second Pulitzer 

Prize for his play, "Seascape." Brendan Gill of The New Yorker called it "the most exquisitely written" of all Albee's plays, and felt that Albee " ... calculated not only every immaculate line of dialogue but every word, every caesura; when the actors fall silent. we hold our breath and wait. as we wait on the reading of some superb long poem." 
His reputation as a great dramatist and lecturer brought Albee to this year's festival, said Kerry McArdle, chairperson of the festival. 
"Drama is such an important genre and he is probably the most prominent American play­wright alive today," said McAr­dle. 
Today Albee continues to write plays and direct some of his earlier ones. He defines a good play as one "with something to say and the ability to say it." He believes "a play should bring its audience some special awareness of the times, 

alter and shape that awareness Library Auditorium. He will in some significant manner." discuss the state of American Theater, its problems, its 
Albee will be speaking tonight strength, and its future. A on "The Playwright vs. The reception in the Library Lounge Theater" at 8 p.m. in the will follow immediately. 
-
Tomorrow, Albee will give a creative writing seminar at 9 
a.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. The seminar is al­ready filled to capacity. 



page 10 

Men's volleyball whips Purdue 
The Observer accepts class1f1eds every busoness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at t Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12p:m. to 3 p.m at 309 Haggar College 

Classifieds 
Center. Deadline for next-day ctass1fieds is 3p.m. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. T charge IS 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 

I 
LOST: Pair of sliver wire­Driving to Atalnta for Easter? 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Need a ride to North Carolina ov rimmed glasses (I have no I can help with gas, tolls, dnving, 
SIGN-UPS Spring Break. 

NOTICES idea where). I need them for etc. Call Suzanna at x2900. PERSONAL ARE FEB. 28th Call Dave at 4-3662 
class and to drive! If found, TYPING 287-4082 call Bill at x1307. 50,000,000 babies 

I what wuv you So,getoutyoursnowshovel TYPING 256-6657 and start practicing for the SOUTH PADRE, OWNER Desperate female seeking ride to big games. Or just go to the bars DISCOUNT, Used Texts Cheap Pandora's D.C. area for spnng break. and think up a funny BEACHFRONT, RADISSON 
name. 2342 NO Ave & Howard Leah @ 284-4308 and leave SLEEPS 6-8 AND MARCO Adoption-Active, Young couple message. SIGN -UPS SUNDAY FEB.28 ISLAND, FLORIDA HOUSE, GRE TUTOR SLEEPS 
in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233-Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call RESORT, PARTIES, CONTESTS
..______w_AN_T_E_o_____JII FOR RENT 

wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom TOM Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call House now for 93-94 school 4-6.$750. WK. 212-472-1414. 288-6578 Peggy 1-800-682-8628. year 234-1886 Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Top 10 quotes from Mardi Eat the GRE for lunchill Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Gras in New Orleans. Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 1 O.Jack why don't you take that FURNISHED HOMES EXCELLENT 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. knife out of Nappy's back. GOING TO OR THRU PA FOR 
9. Buttwoman takes on Budapest $PRING BREAK??

ILOST & FOUND I 
SOCCER Goalkeeper Coach NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO (five times). 
wanted for H.S. level team. Call FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR I NEED A RIDE! ERIN X2963 LOST LOST LOST LOST B. It looks like you guys are making-277-4791 for details. 2773097 I NEED A RIDE TO 

BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER MILWAUKEE AREA some pretty rookie mistakes. 
GLOVES at the SOUTH DINING I'm a-going to Disney World! 3 BEDROOM HOUSE 
MARCH 50R 6 7. $18...$12, $16...$10 SOLD HALL. PLEASE CALL Actually, I am going home to $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. CALL JULIE X3736 6.RERT I need a ride to South Dakota or

JACKIE at x2205-my hands are Orlando, the City Beautiful, home of SECURITY SYSTEM 5. Awww Quinn anywhere west for Spnng Break. 
freezing! much more than Shaq and Mickey, 232-3616 
4. We're still 4 short of 4 Please call M1ndy @4311 
3. James Leahy you're a flailfor Spring Break. I've got some

LOST: BROWN LEATHER JACKET room, too. Join me. Call toll-free BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES ADOPTION -Affectionate 
2. Nappy, show us your lips SATURDAY OUTSIDE OF 273-0895, and ask for Ro. FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. professional couple longs to give a 1. 2 words: NIPPLE RING HELP WANTED, PART TIME MORRISSEY. CALL 4-2338. 

219-291-7153. newborn baby a loving home. Legal, Need a Notre Dame student, HELP! confidential, expenses paid. Call stay tuned for more useless preferrably a grad student or anLost: Long, forest green wool I need a ride to the DC area 6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM Dee and Michaei1-B00-851-1865. babble tomorrow. upperclass student who IS familiacoat at Dillon formal. Maybe our for break! PLEASE!!! HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. with Notre Dame sports history to coats were accidently switched -I Will help w/gas & tolls. AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR Pregnant and feeling alone with no research 365 items of sports hist 

have a similar, bluish-green coat. Call X3823 FALL.272-6306 
where to turn? We offer confidential about Notre Dame by March 1 . 

Please hurry -JPW is coming up I Top Ten Quotes from Canada counseling at no cost to you. For Willing to pay $400. If interested
Call4966. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -write or call:
more information call Nancy at 232­Earn $2,000+/month + world travel FOR SALE 10) There's that corn flake 5843. XENA CALENDARS INC. 

Attention! I found your gold, (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, smell again. P.O. BOX 2653 
claddagh earring! Call 4-3842. 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career 9) Don't breathe when you wookie. Adoption: Doctor and teacher will KALAMAZOO, Ml 49003 Oak Hill Condo For Sale 
8) Am I too demanding? make dreams for your baby come 616-372-4495.
employment available. No

••scARF-SCARF-SCARF•• 
3 bdrm, 3 bath, family room , Somehow I've managed to lose 271-7288
experience necessary. For 7) A llama? Putt-putt? A restaurant? true. Full-time parenting. Best of the 
employment program call Animals in back? I can't believe city; summers by the beach; your

three of them within the last four 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. you were at The Farmer's Inn! baby rocked to sleep by a cozy Hey FRESHMEN! Do you want tweeks. One is b1g and grey, two 
STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette 
6) Oh, my sweatshirt is burning. fireplace in winter, and by ocean have a voice in your class are small and black. Please call recorder, turntable, amlfm radio, 

Rider sought returning from spring 5) Amanda, you just lied to a waves in summer. Art, mus1c, the government next year? Vote for tPaula @ 4271 if you find any of graphic equalizer. Good condition. 

customs officer. best education, endless love. Call leaders who will work with you-nbreak in SFO/SAC area. Call Brian them. I'm freezing Ill Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy 
3677. 4) Oh, Sh t! Sh t! Franny or Stephen collect. just for you: Vote KENDALL, 
at 233-2407. 
3) Alex, the accident only took 20 (212)369-2597. FORD, AIMONETIE,McDONAL 

BIG REWARD!!! #@#@#@#@~#@#@#@# seconds!
Lost: light brown leather Jacket. 
WEDDING DRESS: SIZE 9/10. ...SPRING BREAK LOANS ...
2) If I were a nomad, I'd cut my ha1r

AND ....... Do you have my mom's 
VERY ELEGANT, MUST SEE TO 
I NEED A RIDE TO and bury it. ADOPTION: A loving happy hom black, metallic-like ski jacket? I APPRECIATE. COST $1200 NEW, 

MIAMI(OH) UNIV. THIS 1) ARRRGHHRGHH! From the financial security, and educational m1ght have your missing Jacket. 

ASKING $475. CALL EVENINGS
WEEKEND MORRISSEY LOAN FUND opportunities await your newborn. 

Lost a week before Christmas break (616) 473-2107. 
WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS We can help with your expenses . 

. Call Erin x4717 CALL BRIAN 4-2081 30 Day Loans Please call us collect: David and 
Flying to Austin,TX for Spr. Bk.? 
Up to $250 Rosemary (919) 288-4490 Let's Need a ticket? I have a round-trip
#%#"/.,#%#%#%#%#%#%#%# @1% Interest help each other. 

FOUND: on tuesday on snow path 
for $178 on "Frnds. Fly Free." I can't near main library, a small key, 
use it unless I find someone to fly DIDDLEY, Monday -Fridayperhaps to a bike lock; says with!I Leaves 3/6, returns 3/14. Call 11:30-12:30

Need ride for Spring Break to THANKS FOR BEING MY Bunky"Krypto." Go to LaFortune Info x4-1292. Please hurry! I I'll have to 

Binghamton, NY or area-Ithaca, PARTNER IN CRIME. I OWE YOU. 1st Floor LaFortune How about my formal th1s Friday?
Desk. 
book a single flight soon! 
Syracuse, Scranton ... X3624 CATWOMAN O'Hara Lounge Itchy 
By KEVIN DOLAN 
Sports Writer 

They came in search of revenge, and the Irish men's volleyball team eame away satisfied as they soundly whipped Purdue in 4 games ( 15-12, 15-6,9-15, 15-5 ). 
The Irish dominated throughout the 

The Observer/Pat McHugh Pat Madden and P.J. Stettin form "The Wall" in a preseason match against Lauretian earlier this year. 
match, taking advantage of error by a team that had beaten them soundly earlier in the year when the Irish were decimated by injuries. 
The Irish were down 12-6 in game 1, but passing, the Irish's chief trouble spot, picked up to lead them to victory in that game. Sub Leo Casas had 5 serves in that game. 
Game 2 was an Irish wipeout, according to Pat Madden. "They just screwed up on alot of their serves," said Madden. 
"Our passing was a little sporadic up until that game," said Matt Strottman. The Irish passing was bolstered by the return of setter Won Suh. who would set Irish spikers up for many a point in later games. 
Game 3 was "an Irish letdown," as club captain Brian Ceponis would put it. The Irish simply lost concentration with their 2-0 lead and fell 2-9, be­fore picking it up a little bit, only to F\Ptli!® 
lose 9-15. 
"We were a little cocky with that lead," said Ceponis. "We let down alot... we should have won it there." 
However, the Irish made up for all their errors in a near-flawless game 4, spiking the Boilermakers 15-5. The Irish bench came up big throughout the match, but never bigger than in game 4, in which Miguel Ascencio and Tim "Gravity" Regan played key roles, Ascencio with key digs and Regan with the final two kills of the match. 
"It was nice to get those guys in," said Irish coach Jen Slosar. Madden added, "They should play a key role in the next match." 
Those matches will take place on Saturday in the Pit at the J.A.C.C. at 
4:30 and 8:30, when the Irish take on Illinois St. and Kentucky, respectively. The Irish were wiped out by the Wildcats earlier in the year, so they need you support on 
Saturday night. 

--~·----­ 
Thursday, February 25,1993  The Observer  page 11  
SPORTS BRIEFS  •. ' .••.•' t:: ':• .•. :•• . .:. :~ ::  : ~,.. . ~.' : ::. :: ..  Tennis edges Northwestern Special to The Observer increasing the waiting times between singles and doubles The Notre Dame women's matches. tennis team reached the .500 Notre Dame, however, over­mark for the first time this sea­came the adversity thanks in son with a Midwest region win part to strong play in the top yesterday over Northwestern. three singles spots. The Irish  
overcame last­Freshman Wendy Crabtree minute cruised to a 6-2, 6-1 win over scheduling Branaca Elsberry at number changes and one singles, raising her dual limited courts match record to 4-2 at that po­to upend the sition. At number two, fresh­Wildcats 6-3 in Christy man Sherri Vitale held off Siri Eklund 7-5, 2-6, 6-4. And ju­Evanston, IL. Faustmann The blizzard nior Christy Faustmann ex­that struck Notre Dame on tended her winning streak to Monday night forced the team three matches after dumping to delay its travel plans from Elissa Kim 6-1, 6-3, at number Tuesday night until Wednesday three.  
Happy Birthday to a strapping young buck! Pete Saine Love, The  Ski Team  The Observer is now accefor the folDesign Editor Contaat 1-5303 fo morning, preventing the squad from its usual practice time and Notre Dame dropped the pushing the starting time to number four and five spots to later in the afternoon. Due to the Wildcats in straight sets, the late start only three courts but Irish freshman Holyn Lord were available to the teams, blew past Kari Sanderson at number six 6-1, 6-0. Delays caused by the limited courts posed no problem for the Irish doubles squads either. Crabtree and Tholen teamed up to outlast Northwestern's number one doubles team ofpting applications Elsberry and Eklund 2-6, 6-3, 6-1. At number two, Faust­lowing position: mann and Lord blasted Kim and Feria 6-0, 6-3; and in the third doubles spot, Vitale and senior Ennie Bende won the first set of the match 7-5, but retired the match due to the team's commanding lead. ct Jeanne Blasi The twenty-second ranked Irish carry a 5-5 record into r more information. their March 7 meeting with the nineteenth ranked Kansas Jayhawks .  



The new Macintosh Centris~ 610 computer has all the power you'll need today-and tomorrow Its 68040 chip speeds through word processing, spreadsheet and graphics programs. It's expandable up to 68MB of RAM, giving you lots of room to grow And, Macintosh' is the most compatible 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
personal computer you can buy. See the new Macintosh Centris 610 today at yourApple Campus Reseller. Where you'll get special student pricing, as well as service during college: And discover the power more students choose.The .~ power of Macintosh. The power to be your bese ., 

.'il:'fllt't' i.~ tll'llllllbfeonlr Jrom 'f1Pie Cmnpu,\ Resi!llm whtdJ are Apple Autbort:.t!il ,\ema> Prm·u/m ©199.~ .VJple Compu1t>1: file. All rtgb/.1 re.'ifrt't!ll Appli! the Appli! logo .1/acmlo.'ih mul· 7be polt'f!r lo hfyour bf~·J tfl'f.' regl.1'/1!1'f.'d lmdtnulrk,\ qf.-tppJe Compull!r. Inc .1/tlcmlo...JJ Cm/n1·t.~ tt lmdl!murk of.'f1Pl1! Computl!r. lilt" 
-1 
-


page 12 The Observer Thursday, February 25,1993 
1993

8---------@)----­
Bengal Bouts 


-
Bengals 
continued from page 16 
advanced in the 140-pound 
division, both earning 
unanimous decisions. Hanley 
got off to a fast start and de­
feated Rick Rogers, and 
Schmidt was able to overcome 
a reach disadvantage to beat 
junior Mike Ahern. 

"Anytime you are fighting 
someone with a long reach it is 
going to be tough," said 
Schmidt. "All you can do is wait 
and counter their punches." 
The crowd swelled at the en­
trance of Lou Hall, the top seed 
in the 145-pound weight class. 
With his father bellowing ad­
vice from the corner and a 
large following in attendance, 
Hall battled Chris Rosen to an 
easy win. 

Hall will face senior Kevin Mewborn in Friday's final after second seeded Fred Sharkey was unable to overcome a third round barrage by Mewborn to advance to the finals. 
Joe Carrigan and Carl Henry fought one of the messier bouts in the opening fight of the 150­pound weight class. Henry showed little in the way of box­ing technique in grabbing and holding his opponent through­out the three rounds. Justice was awarded when the decision was announced, as Henry was a loser on all judge's cards. 
Steve Clar and Matt Marr slept through the second 150­pound class until the final round, when successful combi­nations from Clar earned him the win. 
Brian Antonson provided the second shortened bout of the evening in the 155-pound divi­sion. Len Foley, a graduate student from Moreau Seminary, was all but given the last rites in the third round, as a large right from Antonson set him reeling and prompted the referee to end the fight at :55 in the third. 
Antonson's opponent in the finals will be Tim Norton, who earned a unanimous win over former wrestler Jamie Boyd. Boyd was the aggressor throughout the fight and the crowd favorite, but Norton stood up to Boyd"s charges and scored on jabs when the charges left his opponent un­guarded. 
Jeff Goddard and Kevin Mullany will meet in the finals of the 160-pound weight class after beating Mike Thompson and Dan Gutrich respectively. A late charge by Gutrich almost stole the win, but Mullaney's performance in the two previ­ous rounds sealed the win. 

Syracuse University 
Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid A venue Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 
315-443-3471  or  l-800-235-3472  
A  World  of  Difference  
SYRACUSE  ABROAD  

• 
Programs in Africa, Australia, Czech Republic, England, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, and Spain 

• 
Prior foreign language not always necessary 

• 
SU credit 

• 
Field trips/traveling seminars 

• 
Internships 

• 
Study for a semester, a year, or a summer 

• 
Home or limited apartment placements 


Financial assistance available 


Brian Weiford earned a trip to the finals after topping sophomore Kevin Ryan in the first 165-pound semifinal. His opponent on Friday will be former wrestler Jamie Bailey who defeated Jeff Horlbert. 
Bailey provided the crowd with some excitement, throwing tremendous punches. Few landed, but when they did it was much to the pleasure of the hungry and anxious crowd. 
The 175-pound final will pair junior Kevin O'Rourke and se­nior Brendan Nelligan. O'Rourke cruised past Rob Lalor, and Nelligan had little trouble with Mike Hughes who was knocked into a standing eight count in the first round. 
The final weight class, the 185-pound division, went as expected. Favorite Eric Poley got past sophomore Matt Mulderrig by a unanimous count and Harry Zembillas topped senior Mike Faccenda. 
''A 10! Absolutely brilliantsatire, aremltable film:' 
Gary Franklin·KABG-TV 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following Saint Mary's positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and a resume to Jennifer Habrych by 5 p.m., Thursday, February 25, 1993. Applications can be dropped off at either the Notre Dame Observer office or the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more information about any of the positions, call Jennifer at 631-5303 or 284-4312. 
American Heart 
Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 
'rOUR LIFE 
This space provided as a public service. 
SORRY LOU 
DEX CHOOSE 
LAX 
HAPPY 21ll BIRTHDAY! 

DAD-DAVE 
server 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position; 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Applicants should have Apple Macintosh and computer networking experience. Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Patrick Barth by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 3. Contact Patrick at 1-7471 for more information. 


Applications are still being accepted.jor the 
Second International Summer Symposium Gardone Sopra, Lake Garda, Italy July 1-10, 1993 
Michael Davies (author, The Second Vatican Council and Religious Liberty, and Liturgical Revolution) William Marra (Ph.D., Fordham University; Assoc. Professor of Philosophy, Fordham) John Rao (D.Phil., Oxford; Assoc. Professor of History, St. John's University) 
Lecture Program 
A set of twenty lectures on Christlanlty snd Late Antiquity 1200's -600's). Topics include: Crises of the Empire; Mystery Religions, Gnosticism, Nco­Platonism; Clement, Orlgen. the School of Alexandria; the Desert Fathers; Development of Christian Liturgy, Art, Literature, Hymnody; Nlcaea and Athanaslus; Artans vs. the Cappadoclans; Hilary and Ambrose: Political Theory; Jerome: Augustine; the Barbarians; Prudenttus; Leo the Great and Roman Primacy; Gregory the Great and Monasticism. 
1Wo Bicentenaries: the Reign of Terror snd the Birth of Luigi Taparelll D'Azeglto--the Darkness of the Enlightenment; Plus IX and Catholic Social Doctr1ne. 
Catechesls: Toward a Broader Definition--Liturgy and Music as Catechesls; Literature as Catechesls; Art and Architecture: Venice as Catechist; the State as Catechist. 
Dally Approved Trldentlne Mass 
Dr. John Rao, Director The Dietrich von Hildebrand Institute 
II Carmine Street. Apt. 2C NY, NY 10014 

Thursday, February 25,1993 
The Observer 

Series 
continued from page 16 
Everybody was the man. Everybody was an All-America. You come here and you're nothing, and the coaches make it real clear that you are noth­ing. There is so much pressure and it's hard physically. 
"You feel like the world is coming in on you sometimes and it was good to have some­body say 'Hey, it's not that bad. The same thing's happening to me. Maybe it's not that way.' It sheds a little different light on it," ·said Taylor who spent his first year on the scout team and in strictly a back-up role. 
McBride, who was known as "the guy with the cast," had his freshmen season cut short by a broken wrist and although it gave him a chance to experi­ence different things in his first year, it was discouraging. Having Taylor to keep him up­dated on happenings at practice helped McBride to stay focused. 
''I'm glad that I did get a chance to meet Aaron and to experience things with him be­cause if it wouldn't have been for him in a lot of situations, I don't really think I would be here," said McBride. "He lis­tened to what I had to say and my frustrations. People see all the glitter and glamour on the field on a Saturday, but during the week and throughout the rest of the year they don't really know what happens. And I thank God for Aaron and I'm glad he's been here for me." 
The pair have essentially grown up together going from freshmen to sophomores who realize that they are indepen­dent adults to juniors who are more focused and realize the signifigance of what is to come. 
Other students and other 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iJ athletes also undergo this transformation, but for high­profile athletes the changes happen under the glare of media attention. It helps to have a close friend with whom to share the emotions. Taylor and McBride do not consider 
Attention Juniors! 
JPW Pictures! 
themselves merely friends, but 
rather, they consider them­

The candid proofs that were taken at the JPW 
selves brothers. McBride and Taylor cite a

Friday Gala will be on display for ordering purposes. 
common background as a rea­Remember the token color that the photographer gave 
son for their almost instant 
r----------""'lTh~e""'lu"~"n~i""'ve""'r~si~ty~o~[)f.,N~o~t~re~,ua~lme='___....,.

you so that you can look at the right proof boards. 
Bring a check and fill out an order form. 
Department of Music presents 

VVednesday,Feb.24 Thursday, Feb. 25 Friday, Feb. 26 Saturday, Feb. 27 Sunday,Feb.28 
friendship. Talking until all hours of the morning, the two discovered that they felt many of the same things and shared similar fears and dreams rang­ing from football to the future to marriage. 
~"I just look at how we've grown from freshmen year even in our conversations. First, it was 'God, I'm homesick. I can't wait to see my mom over Christmas.' Now it's like there is football after college. I want to do this for my mom or I want to do that. I want to do this with kids. Do I want to get married and how many kids do I want to have? 
"We were talking about this and I stopped, 'Are we really talking about this?' We're both 20 years old. l'tn 20 years old and I'm thinking about a family, kids? He's like, 'Well that's normal.' It's like he's my psy­chologist. Everything just looks so far away, but at the same time, it's right around the corner and it's a weird feeling," said McBride. 

2:00p.m.

Sorin Room 
Annenberg Auditorium 
The Snite Museum of Art $5 -General Admission, $2 -Students/Senior Citizens 

First Floor LaFortune 
~ n r..• r
Janet :rrt..L-tOn 
One 01''Britain sl£aaing darinttists
6:00-9:00 pm 
'J 
Ina

12:00-5:00 pm 
Guest Clarinet Recital 
.,.

12:00-6:00 pm 
Phyllis Rappeport, Pia,ist
2:00-6:00 pm 
featuring
2:00-5:00 pm 
Clarinet Quintet by W.A. Mozart with the Notre Dame String Trio 
Sunday, February 28, 1993 
page 13 
Then there's mom. 
Conversations always seem to 
involve McBride's mom, Mary, 
or Taylor's mom, Mardi, and the 
similarities in their families. 
"There's a lot of deeper things 
that we've both gone through, 
but I think the reason me and 
him became so close was 
because of the similarities. 
Everything I was going through, 
he was going through. 
Everything I had been through, 
he had been through. There 
were differences, but there 
were so many things where he 
could relate so it was easy to 
talk to him," said Taylor. 
McBride added to this by saying, "We have a discussion about dads sometimes. My dad left my mom when I was four and his dad left when he was two and he hasn't seen him. He'll say sometimes, 'I know one day after a game he's going to be there. I don't know how I'm going to react. I don't know if I'm gonna hug him or I'm gonna go punch him.' I told him, 'Whatever you decide to do I'm backing you. If you want to hug him, we'll both go hug him. If you want to punch him, we'll
both beat him up.' That's the 
way it is. It's more than just a 
friendship. It's like a brother­hood because there is nothing I wouldn't do for him and I know there is nothing he wouldn't do for me. There are no limits. 
"Whether I realize it or not or whether he realizes it or not, in the back of our mind not having that father there it has affected us in a way. Sometimes when it comes up it throws us a little, but having Mom there and )laving Aaron there and having his mom there which is also my mom, it's a great feeling to know that you have someone there for you," said McBride. 

Applications for 1993-94 Student Governtnent 
-

Positions must be turned into the: 
·-­

Student Government Office 2nd floor Lafortune by 5 p.m. today, Thursday, February 25 
-

Applications are still available for anyone interested. 

The Observer Thursday, February 25,1993 
page 14 






Irish swimming teams tackle MCC foes in Philly 
Men to defend ranking against LaSalle 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY Sports Writer 
The 34th-ranked men's swimming team is in Philadel­phia this weekend to compete in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships to­day through Sunday. 
The Irish will face Xavier, Butler, Evansville, Loyola of Chicago and two teams new to the conference this year, LaSalle and Duquesne. 
"The addition of LaSalle and Duquesne makes a dramatic change in the size and level of the competition. This will be the fastest MCC Championship ever," said head coach Tim Welsh. 
"LaSalle has had very good meets with us," noted Welsh. "They swam well at the Na-
Mattingly poised for another season 
FOHT lAUDEHDALE, Fla. (AP) -The New York Yankees' Don Mattingly began preparations Wednesday for his lOth full major league season with the same enthusiasm he possessed entering the first. 
"I love what I'm doing. When I come back, I can't wait to get out there," Mattingly said be­fore participating in the Yan­kees' first full-squad workout. "There is competition. It's a battle every day. It's definitely a high to be out there every day to perform and compete." 
That desire has always been there for Mattingly, who turns 32 in April. It was there in 1984, when he won a batting title in his first full major league season, and in 1985, when his 145 RBls made him the American League's Most Valuable Player. 
And it is still there now as tiona! Catholics in December, and they have been racing very well in their dual meet season." 
In the MCC dual meet tour­nament, Notre Dame's season opener, Duquesne made a very strong showing. "They have been a very good addition to the conference," said Welsh, 
1 "and they'll be Colin Cooley 
a tough team to race this weekend as well." 
Eighteen men. the conference limit, including four of Notre Dame's five seniors, will travel to Philadelphia this weekend. The Irish, the MCC defending champions, have won the last five meets. 
"We are the defending champions," stated Welsh, "but we really have to start with a clean slate this year, because the team has changed so dras­tically. Notre Dame is still the team to beat, but we have much tougher competition." 
Welsh has entered the swimmers in a large variety of events to adapt to the demands of the meet. 
"Not any one or two guys will lead the team," said Welsh. "It will take all eighteen men to win, and if one or two are not racing well, it will hurt us." 
"Our objective is to swim in­dividual personal best times," Welsh added. "If we can swim as we've been preparing to swim, then the results should fall into place." 
Mattingly copes with chronic back problems that have robbed him of some of the greatness that marked his early years. 
"I always said at the end I 
want nothing to look back about," said the seven-time Gold Glove winner at first base. "I want to walk away and not say, 'I wish I did this or I wish I did that.'" 



' 
..
Today 

Thursday, February 25,1993 page 15 

SPELUNKER 
GUS TRIED Til KilL U5 BuT HIS PLAN BAa< FIRfD fiND Now W6 1RE Sl)( Yf:AR OlDS. 
You &,01Tfl CURf US, CB. 
Tl!IS IS A I...IVIN' ltEO( 
12 Peel 
-=-+=+='+'-'+'-'-l 15 Arb 1tratio n g p. 1a Frappe 24 Sen. Hatch of 
Utah 27 Out-back seat? 
Wellington attended 
55 V.I.P. Virginia family 58 Lioness? 61 Talk-show host 
Winfrey 62 Zorba the sailor? 
63 Take the stump 64--naked 65 Ending for 
percent 66 Fantasies 67 Gin-mill product 68 Amtrac lines 
DOWN 
1 Rooftop 2 Bandleader Skinnay-­3 Confined quarters? 4"-ofthe 
Matter": Greene 5-andaahed &"Knock­
Door," 1949film 7 Tall story a Journalist 9 Large salmon 
10 Latvian city 
29-tetra (aquarium fish) 30 Beaut 31 Aerial maneuver 33 Heavenly butter 34 Stylograph 
35 They, in Tours 36 Bridge expert Culbertson 
40Cheap, in slanguage 43 Tanning process? 
JAY HOSLER 
£VI:: R C:. 0 T1-1Rl.l ?UBE:R Y IN RE-IJE: RSE., c.ow-e,o'{? 
~~ 
I 
BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

·-. 
? : 
.. 
... 
ffi.: . 
•¥
tflll'"' . . -~~­
.... -. .x~ 
i ·-.~~-· 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Get-up-and-go 4 Blow the horn a Bout 
13 Compass rdg. 14 Pongee fabric 16 Kind of closet 17 Woody Allen's 
homebody? 19 Stringency 20 English field 
marshal­statesman 21 Witless 22 Ally of "War Games" 23 Newsom of baseball fame 
25 -~--Mae Brown (Whoop1's Oscar-w1nnmg role) 
26 Get back 1n business 30 N.C.A.A. Fighting T1gers 
32 Weapon for Laertes 37 Actress Nelligan 38 Bullish times 39 Lattice 41 Extremely 42 False testimony 
44 Work1ng together, for short 
45 Posada 
46 Wavering 
48 Rival of TNT 
50 Houston agcy. 
52"-would 
have it ..." 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
47 Breakouts of 54 Kind of pool sorts 
55 Picasso's "The 49 ... ands or Blue--" 56 Grand Ole­51 Rehan and 57 Pestiferous kid Huxtable 
59 Singer Moten of 52 Conductor "42d Street": Dorati 1933 53 Gloater's look 60 Hwys. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0114 

f 
i 
I 
.. 
Sports 

page 16 Thursday, February 25,1993 
JENNY 
Bengal semis fraught with exciting battles 
MARTEN 

... 
On Top of Sports 

Cross country skiing a viable alternative 
to tackling Everest 
The snow day is over. 
For a day, all the white stuiT on the 
ground was fun, providing cause for 
snow football games and snowball 
fights. 

Now, all that snow is quite annoying 
as the paths to Debartolo are slippery 
and limited to the sidewalks the plows 
have been on and cars need to be 
excavated from D2 (If you don't have 4­
wheel drive, allow about 40 minutes to 
get your car out of its space or get 
some strong friends to help you push it 
out.). 

If you are counting the days until the 
stuiT melts. maybe you need to find 
another way to enjoy the snow. Having 
a campus that is as flat as board forces 
avid sledders and skiers to find an 
"Aspen extreme" ofT-campus. 
The solution to the February snow 
blues is to try cross country skiing at 
Burke Memorial Golf Course. !'or most, 
the thought of cross country skiing is 
about as exciting as taking John 
Stockdale or to your SYH, but don't be 
scared away by what you have heard. 
Cross country skiing is actually pretty 
fun. The merriment comes from trying 
to look coordinated when you do it. For 
several laughs. go with people who 
have never cross country skied before. 
In addition, if you bite it, it donsn't hurt 
as bad so they can't complain too bad. 
Pkture this: You're skiing along on 
your cross country skis and, oops, you 
lose you balance. You fall over into the 
snow. You laugh. You have a little 
trouble standing up. You finally get 
back on you feet. Your friend falls next. 
Hepeat scenario. 

Now picture this: You're swishing 
down Mt. Everest and, oops, you lose 
your balance. You plummet down the 
mountain at over 100 mph losing skis 
and poles and arms and legs along the 
way. If you ac.tually come to a stop 
before you hit the bottom of the hill. 
you have to start climbing up to clean 
up the yard sale you left behind. The 
next morning, your body revolts and 
refusfls to move. 

Which would you enjoy more? (I 
know the downhill thing sounds 
t1~mpting. but Mt. Everest is pretty far 
from South Bend.) If that wasn't 
enough, cross country skiing is great 
excerise. It gets the blood pumping. 
The bitter cold is not a problem 
becausfl when you are cross country 
skiing, you are moving your arms and 
your legs and, believe it or not, you 
stay warm. Actually, you can get rather 
ovnr-heated while cross country skiing. 
Cross country skis arn easily rented 
at the Golf Shop. Check-out times are 
4:30-5:30 p.m. on Thursdays, Fridays, 
and Saturdays as well as 12-1 p.m. on 
Saturdays. Check-in times are Fridays, 
Saturdays and Sundays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. and 12-1 p.m. on Saturdays. 
';;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 
11111130LB. DIVISION 
• 
Eric Garcia (Split dec.) over Jason Kelly 

• 
Chris Irwin (Split dec.) over Rob Payne 


135 LB. DIVISIONMIHHmn:ml •Jeff Gerber(TK0:19 3rd round) over Chris Johnson 
• David Hellen (Unan. dec.) over Pat Owens 140 LB. DIVISION 
• Colin Hanley(Unan. dec.) over Rick Rogers 
• Dan Schmidt (Unan. dec.) over Mike Ahern l 145 
• 
Lou Hall (Unan. dec.) over Chris Rosen 

•Kevin 
Mewborn (Split dec.) over Fred Sharkey


llll!lllllll!il!lllllllll~ 
LB. DIVISION 
150 LB. DIVISION .. • Joe Carrigan (Unan. dec.) over Carl Henry ': • Steve Clar (Unan. dec.) over Matt Marr i! 155 LB. DIVISION 
~~~~~~~~W~'t' ·Brian Antonson(TK0:55 3rd round)
I 
· over Len Foley • Tim Norton (Unan. dec.) over Jamie Boyd 
160 LB. DIVISION 
• Jeff Goddard (Unan. dec.) over Mike Thnmn<:nnU 

• 
Kevin Mullaney (Unan. dec.) over Dan 


165 LB. DIVISION 
• Brian Weiford (Unan. dec.) over Kevin Ryan 
• Jamie Bailey (Split dec.) over Jeff Horlbert 175 LB. DIVISION 
li!!!lilii:liliii:IJI:i:ll:ll" Kevin O'Rourke (Unan. Rob Lalor
• Brendan Nelligan (Split dec.) over Matt Hughes 185 LB. DIVISION 
• 
Eric Poley (Unan. dec.) over Matt Mulderrig 

• 
Haralambos Zembillas(Unan. dec.) over Mike Faccenda 


By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Forty boxers climbed between the robes and under the sixteen bright lights hanging from the rafters of the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse. Twenty bouts in ten weight classes fed the hungry crowd of Bengal Bout fans who were on hand last night for semifinal action. 
After three hours of boxing, the finalists were set for the final night of action, taking place Friday in the JACC Arena at 8:00. Very few of the twenty boxers who did advance did so in easy fashion. The night fea­tured evenly matched opponents and an exhibition in classic technical boxing. 
The 130-pounders got the semifinals underway. The division was in its first round, as a shortage of lightweights prevented the expansion of the division to eight fighters. 
Eric Garcia and Jason Kelly were the first to make their way into the ring, and after three tough rounds Garcia emerged the winner thanks in part to a strong right hand and fatigue which caught Kelly in the final round. 
Chris Irwin and Bob Payne gave the crowd just the opposite of the previous two fighters, as they bloodied each other in the opening round, and continued to throw in their tired, battered state till the final bell sounded. ·Irwin got the unanimous decision, much to the dismay of the crowd who felt the fight was closer than the decision indicated. 
The 135-pound weight class went as planned, with Jell' Gerber forcing referee Chris Johnson to stop the fight at :19 in the third round. Senior Chris Johnson had given Gerber the most trouble he has faced in two years, but in the end Gerber's only punch of the final round was too strong for Johnson to handle. 
In the other 135-pound fight, Pat Owens left the Fieldhouse a winner after earning a win over David Hellen on all four judge's cards. 
Dan Schmidt and Colin Hanley 
see BENGALS/page 12 
Irish look for turnaround against Dukes 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame basketball team (9-15) hopes to put one in the win column after four straight losses as the Irish host the Duquesne Dukes (9-13) tonight at the Joyce ACC. 
Both teams are coming off losses as Detroit Mercy defeated the Dukes by three points last Saturday and North Carolina trounced the Irish on Tuesday night. 
In the 85-56 Joss to North Carolina, Notre Dame was Jed by Monty Williams with 20 points, and freshman Ryan Hoover chipped in 12. The rest of the team was held to under five points each. 
On the season, the Irish are led by Williams, who is averaging 18 points per game, and Hoover who is averaging 10. 
Duquesne is led by 6-10 center Derrick Alston. The junior is averaging 20.4 points a game and a Midwestern Collegiate Conference-leading 9.2 rebounds a game. Helping Alston are freshman Kenya Hunter who is averaging 
10.5 points per game, who hits 44 percent of his three-pointers, and junior EfTrem Whitehead (1 0.1 ppg) 
Senior Alan Watkins collects 5.1 rebounds a game while junior Miles Powers has 37 percent accuracy on his three-pointers for head coach John Carroll's squad. 
Duquesne, who is new to the MCC this year after leaving the Atlantic 10, is 3-8 in the conference while Notre Dame has also been relatively unsuccessful against MCC teams this year losing to Butler, Detroit Mercy, and Xavier. 
Noteworthy Duquesne wins include Florida State (91-84), Penn State (76-65), Detroit Mercy (75-73), and Butler (78­64). 

The Observer/Jake Peters Sophomore guard Lamarr Justice will be a key for the Irish tonight against Duquesne, as they try to turn around a streak that has seen them lose 10 out of their last 12 games. 
Taylor and McBride share a unique bond off the field 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the third article in a four-part series examining different athletic perspectives at Notre Dame. 
"It was eerie because we 'd stay up really late and we'd philosophize about all these different things like 'Yeah, fate 

r:•=Me::T"--:,~-d-=---........~-"":j-~i-~~ brought us to Notre DurniL' Me being n $ an women$ $W mm ng from Florida and him from California 
see page 14 
and we come to South Bend, Ind. and have no clue where this is. Notre Dame. IIWomen's tennis edges Wildcats We've heard the name, know it's rich in football tradition and a great education,
see page 11 
but we're like 'South Bend. Ind., where is that?' 

•Men* voUeybaU clubs Purdue · "Then. we come here and we talk see pagetO about our backgrounds and it's like we sit down and we talk and wn're like 'Remember when you're little and your mom would do such and such.· He's like 'Yeah and remember whatever and whatever.' It was like we were sharing the same childhood. It was like having a brother on the other end of the United States and never really knowing it. It's like a mirrored image," said Oscar McBride. 

Juniors Oscar McBrid1~ and Aaron Taylor met freshmen year because they lived in the same section in Flanner Hall. Since then they have shared a lot including the experiences associated with playing Notre Dame football. 
High profile athletics are physically, emotionally, and mentally demanding and often times athletns, such as Taylor and McBride, find strength and a sympathetic ear in fellow teammates. Friendships that arise between teammates in any sport are an important, and often overlooked part of athletics. 
"You come out of hjgh school. 
see SERIES/page 13 

I 
i 
• 









