The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 93 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
AIDS quilt section Clinton warns Americans of
might come to ND 
tax increases 
By KENYA JOHNSON has become so large that it has News Writer been divided into many sections WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
which are sent to different 

dent Clinton issued an eco­For a mere 48 hours Notre places to be displayed. If the nomic "call to arms" MondayDame will become a significant quilt was to come to Notre night. asking Americans in apart of AIDS awareness history. Dame, it would be the first time televised address to accept aCarol Seager, director of uni­for it to be displayed in the 
painful package of tax
versity health services, is seek­midwestern region, according 
ing approval from The NAMES to Seager. increases and spending cuts as Project AIDS Memorial · Seager said all of the funding the price for rebuilding the Quilt(NAMES) to display a sec­and "leg work" for the project nation's economy. tion of the AIDS quilt in the is done. Flynn collected approx­The president lambasted the Stepan Center in the fall of imately $7,000 from alumni 12 years of Republican eco­
1993. across the country in order to 
nomics and said that the stakes "AIDS is an issue that is un­fund the project. But Seager 
are high as he readies his own fortunately a real issue for the admits that one thing stands 
program. "Change this fun­
young generation," said Seager. between the way of the quilt damental will not be easy nor"I would like to see the issue and Notre Dame-student par­will it be quick." he said. "Butmade more public and informa­ticipation. 
at stake is the control of ourtion presented more on this "Before we can even submit economic destiny." 
campus." the application we need a stu­
Frank Flynn, student body dent committee working on the "More Americans must con­president-elect, agrees with this NAMES project," she said. tribute today so that all Ameri­position and has tried to bring The committee calls for stu­cans can do better tomorrow," 
OS awareness events to cam­dents to fulfill the positions of the president said in his first pus many times. co-chairpersons, finance and prime-time speech from the "It's definitely an issue that merchandise manager, Oval Office. fundraising commissioner,
tudents need to be more Clinton's economic program 
aware about," said Flynn "AIDS media and publicity commis­-to be unveiled in a speech to needs to be recognized by this sioner, and AIDS education a joint meeting of Congress oncommissioner. Along with the Wednesday night -will be aTo do this Seager hopes to executive positions, Seager is far cry from the middle-class ave 'the quilt' presented at seeking a large number of vol­tax cuts that he advocated dur­otre Dame. The quilt is a col­unteers to simply "help with the ing his campaign. 
ection of hand-made quilted work." 
, sewn by the family and "I would like to see the During his 11-minute pre­ones of someone who has NAMES project be the kick-off view, Clinton said he had hoped of AIDS. to a successful and permanent to improve education, reform "The NAMES quilt is so large AIDS awareness program on health care and create jobs hat. with all sections put to­campus," explained Seager. "It "without asking more of you." 
ether, it extends from the is imperative that students get However, he said, "I cannot ­shington Monument to the involved and help with this 
because the deficit has in­
pitol Building," she said. This cause." akes the quilt approximately see CLINTON I page 4 
see AIDS 1 page 4 

ne mile in length. The quilt 
P, Stanford, Sarin, Zahm advance to debate semi-finals 
rated Saint Ed's was knocked­"All the teams were power Catholic character. Phillips and Stanford at 7 p.m. off by fifth-seeded Stanford. ranked after the earlier three "The teams were given all the in the Notre Dame Room in Stanford is matched against preliminary rounds." topics a week before the first LaFortune. Zahm and Sorin will 
The number of teams re-top-rated B.P. while Sorin and round of debates-that was debate at 8 p.m. at the same ning in the Iceberg Debates Zahm will square off in the Monday's debates considered about three weeks ago-so the location. 
cut from eight to four semi-finals. Morrissey, Alumni B the role of health care profes­they have had plenty of time to The championship round will onda as Breen-Phillips, and Badin were also eliminated sionals assisting terminally ill prepare," Listerman said. "I like take place Feb. 23 at 7 p.m. in , Sorin and Zahm each after last night's competition. patients in self-administered the semi-final round topic Cushing Auditorium. A $500 dvanced to the semi-final "The semi-final round pair­suicide. The remaining four because it's something the stu­prize will be awarded to the d set for Wednesday. ings are based on their rank­teams now must shift gears as dents have experienced." dorm of the winning team along only upset of the quarter­ings," said Amy Listerman, they challenge a new topic: Wednesday night's semi-final with a trophy. The second place 
rounds came when fourth-chair of the Iceberg Debates. Notre Dame is losing its round begins with Breen-dorm will receive $250. 


The Observer/Andrea Fisk 

The power of words 
Zahm junior Chris Carroll gives his opening remarks in the quarter finals of the Iceberg Debates against Badin. The Zahm team defeated Badin. 
Reporters say their book made readers 'furious' about U.S. economic problems 
By EMILY HAGE "The reaction is part of the social and economic class, News Writer story," said Steele, "[The letters] regardless of race and sex. are a wonderful snapshot of Steele said many writers 
The American people have what's going on in America." became "furious" about been ahead of the experts about He added that he and Barlett America's economy as they read America's economic strife, were amazed by "the enthusi­Steele and Barlett's book. according to James Steele, co­asm and excitement" that their Bartlett addressed what he author of "America: What Went book provoked in the American and Steele consider the primary Wrong?" with Donald Barlett, people. "For some reason, this economic problems in America. both of whom spoke last night tale stoked the liberal reserves Unemployment is America's at the auditorium at Hesburgh of the people." number one problem, according Library. Steele said the letters have to Barlett. "The number one 
Barlett and Steele, who have proven that Americans "want to priority is jobs." 
been doing investigative and do the right thing; they are He said that cuts caused by explanatory reporting together willing to sacrifice, and they are competition cause a decrease in at the Philadelphia Inquirer for willing to go along with long­pay for workers and an in­the past 22 years, spoke about term solutions." crease in the salary of company American economic problems Steele quoted one writer as executives. He added that the and the American people's re­saying that Steele and Barlett drop in the number of jobs in action, discovered in letters had "pinched the conscious of manufacturing and the increase from across the country re­the silent majority." of government jobs is a bad sponding to their book. Another said, "You have ar­sign, leading eventually to a 
Referring to the 25-30 thou­ticulated what so many of us situation in which there are not sand letters they have received have had a gut feeling about." enough people to pay the taxes so far, ranging from thank you Steele said the book offers to pay the growing bu­
notes to five and six-page es­the statistics to prove the eco­reaucracy. says, he said, "We've never nomic hardship Americans have America's deficit, too, needs seen anything with that kind of experienced. He said response passion." to the book has cut across every 
see REPORTERS I page 4 


r---._----.----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
W NO's the 
other radio 
alternative 
Throughout the past--............~..... ­
couple of years students have complained about the state of campus radio. 
With U-93 catering to the teeny-bopper generation and WAOR catering to not-too 

classic  rock  fans,  
students are looking for  Mike Scrudato  
a station that will play  Sports Editor  
cater to their tastes.  
WVFI,  the  official  
 

campus radio, plays this kind of music, but cannot be heard in half the dorms on campus, let alone the surrounding neighborhood. 
Some people feel that 'VFI should be given the funds to move to the FM side of the dial, where it could be heard outside of LaFortune. 
Last year, this option was unsuccessfully attempted. 
There is, however, an alternative. 
The campus fine arts station, WSND, which operates out of the O'Shaughnessy bell-tower, has a spot on the FM dial (88.9) and comes in clearly around campus. 
I am not suggesting that everyone listen to classical music all day, not that there's anything wrong with that. 
But, take a listen to 'SND Sunday through Friday between midnight and 2 a.m., and you might be pleasantly surprised. 
During these hours, the fine arts station becomes "Nocturne," which is two hours of the type of things you would expect to hear from a college radio station in crystal clear FM stereo. 
Not only that, but the DJs love to take re­quests. Usually, you can have your requests played almost instantaneously. 
Some Tuesday nights, which tend to be the best nights to listen, 'SND features CD and cassette giveaways. 
Just last week a student named Matt Lamberti won a cassette just for saying he loved The Sextants. 
These two hours are arguably the best Michiana radio has to offer. 
Since WVFI-FM seems like an impossible possibility, why doesn't the University or 'SND increase the number of "Nocturne" hours? 
It doesn't have to be anything drastic, but is ten through two too much to ask? 
Despite the lack of publicity that these two hours have gotten, it is building a small, yet fanatic following. This includes the entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community. One Nocturne disc jockey disclosed that they usually receive an equal amount of calls from both schools. 
This increase of air time would give students that want to hear alternative (or whatever other label you want to categorize it with) music four hours of what they want. 
It still would be a lot, but it would be twice as much as is available. 
It would be far less than adequate, but even the longest of journeys begins with a single step. Listen tonight and you might just win a something. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Accent  
Sandy Weigand  Jahnelle Harrigan  
Katie Murphy  Donald Modica  
Production  Graphics  
Jeanne Blasi  Chris Mullins  
Jen.  
Kira Hutchinson  Business  
Emily Hage  
Sport  Susan Marx  
Brian Kubicki  John Connorton  

Systems 
Harry Zembillas 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


OF INTEREST 
• 
Codependents Anonymous (CODA) is a 12-step program for men and women interested in recovery from alcoholic and/or otherwise dysfunctional family backgrounds. CODA is open to all men and women inter­ested in establishing healthy, fulfilling relationships. Meetings are held in Sorin Hall Chapel Tuesdays at 5:30 p.m. 

• 
The summer internship search will be the topic of a presentation from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. Resources and techniques will be suggested for researching, pursuing, and obtaining a rewarding sum­mer work experience. 

• 
Join SAVE and help the elderly. If you are interested in visiting a rest home once a week, come to a meeting at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns for more information. Call Stephanie at 634-3567 if you have any questions. 

• 
A relationships seminar, "Going the Distance: Building Relationships that Last," will be presented by Kimberly Hilton and Jamie Davidson from the Notre Dame Counseling Center at 7 p.m. in room 300, Univer­sity Counseling Center, Health Services Building. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 15 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 267,831,380 -1.42 to 245.30 S&P COMPOSITE -3.08 to 444.58 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -30.26 to 3,392.43

UNCHANGED 585 


GOLD + $4.00 to $333.40 oz. 
SILVER + $0.062 to $3.762 oz. 
Tuesday, Feburary 16, 1993 

the release of the Pentagon inspector general's report on the Tailhook sex abuse scandal, the Navy and Marine Corps have quietly laid the groundwork for dealing with the report's Lu•u...,u:;A legal fallout. The report is expected to be so explosive i nature -and detailed in its findings of sexu misbehavior and other misconduct -that scores officers are likely to be referred to courts martial o recommended for a series of lesser disciplina proceedings. The report, by Pentagon Inspector Dereck Vander Schaaf, will deal with the Tailhoo convention in Las Vegas in 1991, where several doze women complained they were groped and fondled Navy and Marine Corps aviators. The report, expected be released by the end of this month, is also supposed take up any attempts to cover up misconduct that have taken place. 
• 
Operation Smiles and volunteer opportunities at St. Joseph's Hospital will be discussed at a meeting in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall at 7 p.m. The meeting is spon­sored by the Notre Dame Preprofessional Society. Elec­tions will be held for next year's offices. 

• 
Class officer candidates will meet at 7:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. Everyone interested in running must attend. 

• 
A Natural Family Planning program to assist en­gaged and married couples in its theory and practice will begin Thursday from 7 to 9:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. To register call 237-7401. 

• 
Resume Expert Labs will be Friday and Tuesday (not today, as previously indicated) from 3:30 to 5 p.m. at 228 DeBartolo to give detailed instructions for Resume Expert software. Advance sign-ups are requested by calling 1-5200. 

• 
The Notre Dame Accounting Association presents Leon Broughton, CPA, of the Institute of Internal Auditors, "internal audit," in room 222 Hayes-Healy Center. Pizza and refreshments will be served. All ac­counting majors are welcome. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

Tuesday, February 16, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Students advance in College Bowl 
By JOHN LUCAS News Writer 
Answering trivia questions on diverse topfcs ranging from figure skating champions to the composition of Halley's Comet to the animals of the Chinese cal­endar, four Notre Dame seniors won the campus championship of the College Bowl, America's longest running general quiz competition. 
The team of seniors Jim Shiely , Nate Citino, Mike More­land, and Rob Horton earned a trip to Earlham College in southern Indiana to compete in a regional round Feb. 6 to 8, where the squad will face com­petition from schools across the Midwest. 
"It was pretty tough, but we had a lot of fun," team captain Rob Horton said. 
Extremely popular in the 1950's, College Bowl won sev­eral Emmy Awards as a weekly television show, pitting students from different campuses against each other as part of the national tournament. 
Competing in a format similar to Jeopardy or Trivial Pursuit, College Bowl participants answer questions in a wide va­riety of areas, including sci_tlnce, literature, sports, geography and pop-culture. 
According to tournament co­ordinator Peter Lombardo, the College Bowl is made up of two parts. While the first part of the game has individuals buzzing in on electronic buzzers to answer "toss-up questions," the second part has contestants answering "bonus questions" where teams can confer among themselves before answering for higher point values. 
According to Lombardo, the College Bowl tournament has a long history at Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame has participated from the very beginning-as early as 1953," he said. 
This year, 15 four-person teams from Notre Dame fought for the spot to compete at Earl­ham. After the regional tour­nament, the champions of the fifteen regionals and a sixteenth wild-card team will advance to the National Championship Tournament to be held April 23 to 25. 
SMC panel discussion focuses on the problems with l).S. health care 
Happy Laura! 

Congratulations on not dying for 12 months! 

By AMY K. BENNETT News Writer 
A panel discussion at Saint Mary's Monday focused on the current problems in the United States health care system. 
Business administration and economics professor Richard Measell, philosophy professor Kevin McDonnell, and nursing professor Ella Harmeyer spoke on the difficulties facing Ameri­can health care. 
Measell said one problem is the increasing amount of the gross national product going towards health care. Measell also blamed the involvement of third party payment plans and a complicated system for the large amount of money being spent. 
"You go to the grocery store knowing that you need oranges 

Attention Juniors: 
You must pick up your JPW Registration Packet 
(includes tickets for events) 

Monday, February 15 6-10 p.m. or Tuesday. February 16 6-10 p.m. 
1st floor LaFortune (Next to Information Desk) 

GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT Friday, February 19 -Sunday, February 21 
7:00 p.m. Noon 

A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Crowe House, on the shore of Lake Michigan, 30 miles northwest of Notre Dame. 
Deadline: l<eservations for the twelve available places will be accepted until Wednesday, February 17. 
Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-8606 
or Sharon at Hscher Community Center 631-8607. Cost $15.00 for the cost of meals ami snacks. 


or milk, but you go to the doctor with pain and you really have no knowledge of the problem or what the cure will be," he said. 
Harmeyer stressed the need for increased prenatal care for underprivileged patients unable to pay mounting hospital costs. She pointed out that although the United States government provides some health care programs, problems still exist. 
"We look to Britain's and Canada's programs, but when we examine our own in the United States, we find that the majority of them don't work very well," she said. 
Harmeyer said she sees Fed­erally Funded Health Centers as one of the government care programs that actually works. FFHCs can exist only in areas with a large percentage of un­derprivileged people who are required to pay only a percent­age of the cost of the care they receive. 
McDonnell spoke on health care as a religious and social is­sue. He said that in the current system in the United States, not enough is done to promote healthy lifestyles that prevent illness. 
"What we have in this country is a first-rate sick-care system. There's no better place to get sick than in the United States," McDonnell said. "Sickness care has very little to do with how long or how well we live. What we have almost nothing of is a health care system." 
McDonnell said that doctors, who are more involved with sick care than health care, are still revered. 
"We are asking things of the medical care system that I don't think medical care can deliver. Health care has little to do with doctors. Why then have we made doctors gods?" he said. "Just as priests -even good priests -cannot ensure the salvation of the members of their flocks, so doctors -even good doctors -cannot ensure the longevity of their patients." 
TAKE THE KEYS. CALL ACAB. TAKE ASTAND. 
DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE 
Back by popular demand ... 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m. , 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the ttme you call! 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1993 
Navajo and Hopi leaders continue a land dispute as agreement collapses 
FLAGSTAFF, Ariz. (AP) ­Clarence Blackrock has lived all his 63 years in the Cactus Val­ley-Big Mountain community on the Hopi Indian Reservation. He considers it his home, his land, his heritage. 
But Blackrock, like most of his neighbors, is a Navajo. And despite his strong religious and ancestral ties to the land, he will be forced off it unless Navajo and Hopi leaders settle their century-old dispute over use of the land. 
More than three decades of 

legal battles among the tribes and the federal government appeared on the way to resolu­tion in November when a fed­eral mediator announced a set­tlement giving the Hopis $15 million and 500,000 acres of land off the present reservation. 
But now the agreement ap­pears to have collapsed under the weight of criticism from state and local government of­ficials, white landowners, envi­ronmental and outdoor enthu­siasts and the Navajo families. 
At issue are several hundred thousand acres of high desert in 
northeastern Arizona. It is rugged, inhospitable land, scorched by the sun in the summer, bitterly cold in the winter. 
Navajo Chairman Peterson Zah says it is a poverty-stricken region of dilapidated houses where cold, rain and snow find their way inside. There are few paved roads, no running water. Schools and social services are either inadequate or nonexis­tent. 
But Blackrock and the 250 or so Navajo families who occupy the land are unwilling to leave. 
Slovakia elects first president 
BRATISLAVA, Slovakia (AP) -Parliament elected Michal Kovac, a former banker, as Slovakia's first president on Monday, breaking a deadlock that had threatened to destabilize the newly independent country. 
Kovac was the last speaker of Czechoslovakia's federal parliament before the country split peacefully into Czech and Slovak states on Jan. 1. 
Parliament had failed in two tries last month to choose a head of state when none of four candidates won the necessary three-fifths majority. 
Kovac, the only candidate in Monday's vote, won 106 votes in the 150-member parliament, 16 more than the three-fifths needed. 
Kovac, 62, said his election was an "an important signal" of Slovak unity. "We have to increase the credibility of Slovakia in the world," said the president-elect, who will be sworn in on March 3 for a five-year term. 
Kovac was the nominee of Premier Vladimir Meciar's governing Movement for a Democratic Slovakia, a party Kovac helped found. 
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
creased so much, beyond my earlier estimates. beyond even the worst estimates from last year." 
Promising to spread the pain among all, Clinton said 70 per­cent of the taxes he would pro­pose "fall on the shoulders of those who make more than $100,000 a year." An adminis­tration official said Clinton meant that seven out of 10 of the higher taxes would affect the wealthy -not that they would pay 70 percent of the additional burden. 
The payoff from his plan, Clinton promised, will be 
AIDS 
continued from page 1 
Students would have to be available "almost immediately" said Seager. She said she would like to lay out the frame work of the project next month and have the application sent by March or April. There is a six month time period between the time the application is pro­cessed and the actual arrival of the quilt. 
"If all goes well, we will be able to display the quilt in the earlier part of the fall semester," Seager explained. 
Reporters 
continued from page 1 
attention, said Barlett. He said that such government efforts as the Gramm-Rudman-Hollins legislation of 1987, which was supposed to destroy the deficit by 1991, have not been suc­cessful. 
He also referred to the falseness of Bush's claim that because of the budget reforms, the deficit would be eliminated by 1995. "The numbers were 

"millions of long-term, good­paying jobs, including a pro­gram to jumpstart our economy with another 500,000 jobs in 1993 and 1994." 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole delivered a crisp response to Clinton's address, expressing skepticism that the administration was cutting spending far enough before asking for more taxes. 
"We've both heard lots of speeches about 'sacrifice,' but we'll be working with you to make certain that sacrifice isn't just a presidential code word for more taxes, more spending and more mandates from Washington," Dole said. "That's the kind of sacrifice that will break the back of middle-class America, and lead us right into 
I his could take up a substan­tial amount of time, but wouldn't it be worth it?," she added. 
Seager sees NAMES as a bridge between Notre Dame and the South Bend community. 
"This would be the largest AIDS awareness project to hit. the South Bend area," she said. "This is not only a Notre Dame project, but a community wide project. We need to collectively come together and make this as successful as possible." 
Flynn and Seager hope to see a commemoration celebrated around the arrival of the quilt, complete with a mass, tables of materials, videos and speakers. 
still going the wrong way," he said. 
Reforms in health care, too, are needed, said Barlett. "What kind of civil society makes health care a lottery?" He criticized the present sys­tem, saying that a person who works for a company with health care "wins," whereas someone whose employer does not have insurance "loses." 
Barlett and Steele have won two Pulitzer prizes and have won the George Orwell award from the National Council of Teachers of English two times. 

will be held Saturday, April 17, 1993 
Any bands interested in participating can pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor ofLafortune 
*Application deadline is Monday, March 1, 1993* The first 20 bands to turn in applications will be accepted. 
economic ruin." 

Clinton's plan envisions roughly $500 billion in tax in­creases and spending reduc­tions on many popular pro­grams over four years to cut the deficit. Big corporations and wealthy Americans face significant boosts in their in­come tax rates. 
One part that will· affect all Americans is a broad-based energy tax, based on the heat content of fuels, including elec­tricity, coal, oil, natural gas and gasoline. Clinton has said the heat-content approach would be more progressive than a tax based strictly on sales. 
The Oval Office appearance was part of a public relations blitz to overcome resistance in Congress and among the public. 
I h1s could be one of the biggest things for Notre Dame next year," said Flynn. "I have a positive feeling about this, but we need help." 
Seager will have an informa­tional meeting for students Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the din­ning room of the health services building. 

GOP leaders were sharpening their opposition in advance. Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, said that "when Democrats say 'sacrifice,' they really mean 
'taxes.~ 

Warning that special interests will try to kill his plan, Clinton said, "Those who have profited from the status quo will oppose changes we make, every step of the way. They've already lined the corridors of power with high-priced lobbyists. They are the defenders of decline, but we are the architects of the future." 
Senate Majority Leader Ge­orge Mitchell said he hoped people wouldn't rush to judg­ment on Clinton's program. 
"I emphasized that while it's not likely that any one of us will agree with every single point in his economic program, it has to be viewed as a whole," he told reporters at an AFL-CIO meet­ing in Florida. 
Are you sick ofpoor sports coverage Do something about it! 
Thursday, February ts•h 7pm LeMans Lobby 
All old/new sport reporters must come. Anyone is welcome. 
Contact Nicole McGrath X5193 for more information. 
IC~B~RG D~BAl~S 
~tMiriNAl ROUND 
WtDNt~DAY, rtBRUARY 11 

U©M©~~©W~ 
~~Resolved, that Notre Dame is losing its Catholic character.~~ 
The first dorm listed will be defending the affirmative position. 
Alumni B1Breen -Phillips Winner 
v. 

St. Ed's I Stanford Winner 
and 

Zahm I Badin Winner 
v. 

Sorin I Morrissey Winner 
The semifinals will be held at 7:00 P.M. and 8:00 P.M.. respe:j,;;the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune. • , ·. 


1uesday, t-eoruary 1o, 1~~::J 1he Observer page 5 
SMC panel to celebrate liberal arts education 
Lecture will focus on Catholic Church and the collapse of Communism 
By KATIE CAPUTO Saint Mary's News Editor 
A panel presentation at Saint Mary's tonight will be the first in a series, "Celebrating the Liberal Arts," which is intended to introduce students to the value of a liberal arts education in the professional world, ac­cording to career counselor Karen Kyle. 
"We want the main message to be that a liberal arts education is excellent preparation for the work world, and we are trying to back that up with concrete examples," said Kyle.
Squeaky Clean 
The first program will be pre­
St. Ed's freshman Nate Markell and coworker Bilal Shabazz empty clean dishes from a machine in the 
sented at 7 p.m. in Stapleton
dining hall. 
Lounge in Le Mans Hall. It will 
European Communism," according to Notre Dame philosophy professor Ralph Mcinerny. 
Weigel is the president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a think tank in Washington, 
D.C. dedicated to voicing the public's ethical interests re­garding public policy, Mcinerny 
BARBARA FREY 
Executive Director, Minnesota Advocates For Human Rights 
"PREVENTING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS: THE CASE OF KOSOVO, YUGOSLAVIA" 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18 
NOON ROOM 220 ~ LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

l~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~l 
IB1LACK HliS1rORY 
MONTH 

Film: "The Lon~ Walk Home" 
Whoopi Goldberg & Sissy Spacek 

Enjoy Afro-American Music & Food 
Lecture: Constructing Freedom: Race, Gender & Power 
Reconstruction Dr. Laura Edwards University of Chica~o 

*~++*++*¢*++***+*0*~+0+++ 
SPONSORED BY: MINT Office, Si,:;~ of Neiertiti, SAB Office of the Associate Dean 
Tuesday, Feb. 16 Carroll Auditorium 7:00pm Film 
6:30pm Reception 
Discussion following the ftlm 
led by Pat WhJte 
VVednesday, Feb. 17 
Dining Hall 
4:30pm -6:30pm Thursday, Feb. 18 Stapleton Lounge 
4:00pm 

said. book on the Catholic Church's 
Weigel, a Roman Catholic role in the political upheaval of theologian, has written or Eastern Europe after exten­edited several books, including sively researching his topic in "Freedom and Its Discontents", Europe. "Just War and the Gulf War", "His lecture will focus on the and "Catholicism and the Church's role in the political Renewal of American animosity leading to the Democracy". crumbling of Eastern Europe, 
Weigel recently completed a and his experience is hands-
Kevorkian helps thirteenth person to commit suicide 
ROSEVILLE, Mich. (AP) -Dr. Jack Kevorkian helped a 70­year-old invalid kill himself Monday by inhaling carbon monoxide. He was Kevorkian's 13th assisted suicide. 
Hugh Gale, a former security guard, had been disabled more than 10 years with emphysema and congestive heart disease. 
"He was in terrible pain," said Michael Schwartz, one of Kevorkian's attorneys. "He was on oxygen 100 percent of the time -could not walk, could not go out of the house." 
Gale's wife, Cheryl, and 
Kevorkian were at Gale's sub­urban Detroit home when he died, Schwartz said. Mrs. Gale 
did not speak to reporters· 
Linda Vaughn Davis, an as­sistant county prosecutor at the scene, said she didn't know what legal action, if any, would 
Notre Dame 
Student and senior 
Thursday and 
Ticket Office. 

be taken. There was no answer Monday at the prosecutor's of­fice, which was closed for the Presidents Day holiday. 
Gale was the fifth person Kevorkian has helped commit suicide since Dec. 15, when Gov. John Engler signed legislation that will ban assisted suicide in Michigan beginning March 30. 
"The Legislature has made these people more panic­stricken and a lot of them feel that if they don't do something quickly they're going to be forced into some terrible agony and pain," Schwartz said. 
Kevorkian, a retired pathol­ogist, last assi!?ted a suicide on Feb. 8, when he helped a 47­year-old woman with multiple sclerosis kill herself. 
The new state law will make assisting a suicide a felony pun­ishable by four years in prison. 
8:t0 p.m. 
to p.m. tO p.m. :10 p.m. tO p.m. 
lable Wednesday, 
at the LaFortune 
call: 631-8128. 
include a panel discussion with three graduates of Saint Mary's entitled "Life After Saint Mary's: Putting Your Major to Work." 
Other programs include a Ca­reer Resource Center Open House on Feb. 23 from 5 to 8 
p.m. in 168 Le Mans Hall. On Feb. 26, at 2 p.m. at Dalloway's Coffeehouse, there will be an informal discussion with Kathryn Hank Collett, Saint Mary's Class of 1975, a philos­ophy major and career woman. During the week of Feb. 22, the hall directors will have displays in the residence halls. 
The scheduled events are free to all members of the college community. 
on," said Mcinerny. 
Weigel's lecture will be Wednesday at 4:15 p.m. in room 125 at DeBartolo Hall and is sponsored by the Notre Dame Jacques Maritain Center as a part of the John M. Olin lecture series. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Living wills 
invalid for 
pregnant 

AP) -Plan all you want. The soul searching and sense that goes into a living will is all for nought in most states if a woman is pregnant when it is needed. 
Only Arizona and New Jersey ask women to indicate in their living wills what medical treat­ment they would want should they become hopelessly co­matose or be declared brain­dead while they are pregnant. 
In 23 states, a woman's re­quest not to be kept on life­support is invalidated if she's pregnant, no matter the stage of her pregnancy. 
Nancy Klein didn't have a liv­ing will when a car accident in 1988 left her comatose while she was pregnant. She agrees with her husband's decision to get her an abortion because doctors said it would improve her chances of recovering. 
"I don't think a woman should be forced to be an incubator," she said over the weekend from her home in Florida. 
All 50 states and the District of Columbia have laws allowing advance directives on medical care. They provide either for a living will, which indicates a choice for life-sustaining health care should a person become unable to make such decisions, or through medical proxy, which names someone else to make such a choice. 
A survey by the Center for Women Policy Studies found 12 of those don't address preg­nancy, making it likely courts would decide the matter. 
Twenty-three states automat­ically invalidate a woman's liv­ing will at any stage of preg­nancy, it said. 
Four other states invalidate advance directives if the fetus 
is viable, generally considered sometime in the second trimester. 

page o 1he Ut>server 1uesday, t-et>ruary 1o, 1~~::.1 

The Observer/Andrea Fisk 
Iceberg Debates heat up 

Alumni freshman Felix Knoll delivers a statement as the Breen-Phillips team of Katie McBride and Mike Dubay look on. 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­Two car bombs shattered a busy downtown district Mon­day, killing four people and in­juring more than 120 as glass rained from skyscrapers and survivors groped through thick smoke. 
Twenty cars were destroyed and dozens of stores were severely damaged. Windows were broken in an area about a half-mile square, AP photogra­pher Ricardo Mazalan said at the scene. 
Smoke cut visibility to a few yards at both bomb sites, which were about eight blocks apart. The injured stumbled around blindly, crying out for help. Others ran about screaming as they searched for loved ones 

Two stabbed in Jerusalem 
.IEHUSALEM (AP)-An Arab stabbed to death a man and wounded a woman today in an attack on Jews waiting at a Jerusalem bus stop, police and hospital officials said. 
The 64-year-old father of the slain man suffered a head in­jury when he fell while trying to help fend off the attacker, hospital officials and radio re­ports said. 
Jerusalem police commander Rafi Peled told Israel radio that the attack occurred at about 
6:00 a.m. in the Jewish neighborhood of Armon Hanaziv, which borders the city's Arab district. 
Moshe Mizrachi, the slain man's father, said the attacker shouted something in Arabic that he could not understand. 
Campus Biltle Fellowship
at St. Mary's College 3S6 Madeleva Hall Tuesdays 7:00 p.m. COME JOIN USl For more information call: 
LuAnne  Christy  
284-5243  284-4160  
Steve & Chulene  Brent  
272-8890  634-3562  


and friends, Mazalan said. 
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombings, but a government official charged they were planted by drug traffickers. President Ce­sar Gaviria blamed recent bombings on fugitive drug lord Pablo Escobar, who is fighting a government crackdown. 
The police and army set up scores of roadblocks throughout this city of 6 million people, apparently to try to catch those responsible. 
Both bombs, estimated by police at about 150 pounds each, exploded at mid-morning as hundreds of people jammed downtown sidewalks. 
The first detonated a few yards from a municipal court­house, killing two people. 
The assailant, described as about 25 years old, was seen fleeing toward the adjacent Arab neighborhoods of Jebel Mukaber and Sur Baher by a bus driver who fired two shots in his direction, Peled added. 
"We imposed a curfew on the two (Arab) neighborhoods in order to find the assailant," Peled said, adding that extra police and a helicopter were called in to help in the search. 
Curfews, employed by the army in the occupied territo­ries, are rarely used in Jerusalem. City spokesman Shmuel Ben-Ruby said 19 Arabs were rounded up for questioning. 
On Sunday night, two Israelis were shot and wounded when fired on while driving home. 
*Board Manager *Director of Programming *Director of Relations *Director of Marketing 
*Controller 
Programming Positions 
*AnTostal Chairman *Campus Entertainment Co-Commissioner *Collegiate Jazz Festival Chairman *Cultural Arts Co-Commissioner *Ideas & Issues Co-Commissioner *Movies CO-Commissioner *Music Entertainment Co-Commissioner *Sophomore Literary Festival Chairman *Special Events Co-Commissioner 
Marketing Positions 
*Senior Account Executive 
*Account Executive 
*Artist 
~~ *Marketing Research Commissioner 
~ Relations Positions 
*Internal Relations Commissioner 
*External Relations Commissioner 
*Office Manager 
Assistant Controller 
Lithuanians elect an ex-Communist leader 
VILNIUS, Lithuania (AP) ­Fed up with economic hard­ships, Lithuanians overwhelm­ingly elected former Communist Party chief Algirdas Brazauskas in their first direct presidential vote, unofficial results showed Monday. 
Brazauskas received 1,210,517 votes, or 60 percent of those cast Sunday. Anti­Communist intellectual Stasys Lozoraitis, who spent 50 years in exile in the West and now is Lithuania's ambassador in Washington, drew 767,345 votes, or 38 percent. 
More than three-quarters of the 2.55 million eligible voters cast ballots. 
Final results were expected Wednesday, but election offi­cials in this Baltic nation said the outcome was assured. 
The strapping, jovial Brazauskas has remained pop­ular since the fall of Commu­nism because -like Russian President Boris Yeltsin -he is a maverick who rose to the top 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Design Editor 
Contact Jeanne Blasi at 1-5303 for more information. 
of the ruling party and then broke away. 
"Had the candidate for president been a real Commu­nist, the people would not have voted for him. The pnople know better," Brazauskas told re­porters after his victory. 
He has promised to restore order to the crumbling econ­omy and raise living standards, which have fallen since Lithuania won independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. 
Brazauskas said Monday that he would continue to convert state businesses to ownership and "clear away all obstacles" to foreign invest­ment. 
But Lozoraitis said in conced­ing defeat he Brazauskas would make cos­metic changes instead of a ma­jor economic restructuring. 
Lozoraitis, 68, who ran as independent, said Brazau and his advisers "don't have slightest idea what the West is." 

1uesaay, r-eoruary 1o, 1::1::10 1ne uoserver 
Jackson may organize a national hunger strike 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Rev. Jesse Jackson threatened Monday to organize a hunger strike in the United States un­less the Clinton administration allows HIV-infected Haitians into this country. 
Jackson, who began a per­sonal hunger strike Sunday, emerged from a meeting with White House Chief of Staff Mack McLarty saying he supported Clinton's Haitian policy, but he wants action within a week. 
He also met with Hillary Rodham Clinton and discussed his views on the nation's health care system -the focus of Mrs. Clinton's work in the west wing of the White House. Jackson came away impressed. 
"It was a very good meeting in my judgment. She is sensitive to a broad range of concerns." 
The civil right leader recently returned from the Guantanamo Navy base in Cuba, where he joined HIV-infected Haitians on a hunger strike to pressure Clinton to lift the ban on their entry. 

He also urged Clinton to move faster to restore deposed Haitian President Jean-Ber­trand Aristide and end a naval blockade meant to discourage mass migration from the Caribbean nation. 
''I'm going to continue (the hunger strike) for at least a week and if at end of the week there has been no shift of pol­icy, I will have to consider ex­panding the number of people involved," Jackson said. 
He said the expanded strike could involve "other leaders and other organizations that have been involved in the pro­cess." 
Clinton said last week that he wants to reverse the immigra­tion policy that bars HIV-in­fected people from entering the country. 


Handling of Tyson case attacked by his lawyer 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A judge who kept key witnesses from testifying and blocked the introduction of important evidence allowed Mike Tyson to be wrongly convicted of rape, his lawyer argued Monday in appealing for a new trial. 
"We want a new trial in which all the evidence can be presented to a jury," attorney Alan Dershowitz told a group of law students after two hours of argument before a three­judge appeals panel. 
The Indiana Court of Appeals panel is not expected to rule on the request for at least two months, court officials said. 
Inside the state Supreme Court chamber, where the hearing was moved to accommodate scores of 
reporters and spectators, Dershowitz headed a defense team that attacked Superior Court Judge Patricia J. Gifford's handling of the case. 
Gifford denied a jury the necessary tools of evidence by blocking testimony from three defense witnesses and refusing jurors a chance to consider whether his accuser had consented to sex, the former heavyweight boxing champion's lawyers said. 
"It is obvious if they had these tools, they would have acquitted Mike Tyson," said Nathan Dershowitz, another defense attorney and the brother of Alan. 
But prosecutor Lawrence M. Reuben said there wasn't a legal basis for an appeal. 
"This appeal is not about re­weighing evidence, as the defense would have you do," he said. 
Neither Tyson, who is serving a six-year prison term, nor his accuser, Desiree Washington, attended the hearing. 



page 8 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1993 

{ $ ,, 

qn ~ 
' , .Christmas in April ~All'
... 

y_jf Join together with seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April (CIA). 

~ 
--"\.. which the South Bend community Will join 
.·· forces with the students, faculty, and stan . ~ ol Notre Dame and St. Mary•s to renovate ' ·· and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, ~'"\ and handicapped residents of aSouth Bend '-Y. ."""" neighborhood. 

I 
II 
11 AM tO 2 PM, 4 PM tO 8 PM 
at the Library Concourse 
LIMITED SPOTS AVAILABLE 

Business 
Tuesday, February 16, 1993 page 9 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Led~ard Casino: financial colossus 
Senator P~or rips drug companies · . }
•WASHING ON-Sen. David Pryor. D·Ark.• an outspoken critic of prescription drug costs, said Monday he will seek to · repeal a major tax break for drug companies and other industries with manufacturing operations in Puerto Rico. Pryor said Section 936 of the tax code has become "nothing but a gigantic tax windfall for the pharmaceutical industry" costing the Treasury $3 billion a year. He proposed replacing it with a far less generous credit based on the actual wages the manufacturers pay workers on the island rather than their profits. The drug industry defended the tax credit, claiming its incentives account for one-third of the 900,000 jobs in Puerto Rico. 
Labor unions vow to support Clinton 
•BAL HARBOUR-Organized labor's top official said today unions would support President Clinton's economic proposal, but he left open the possibility that some of the proposed tax increases would meet with objections. Asked specific whether labor would support an energy tax as part of Clinto prescription for reducing the deficit, Lane Kirkland, president ()f the AFL-CIO, said unions favored the general concept of raising taxes, but he avoided commenting on an energy .tax. "We know that there has to be, as well as restraint on spending, there has to be revenue coming in," he said. "Our members are prepared 

to pay their fair share." 
VIENNA, Austria (AP)­OPEC's major producers floated ideas today for ending a stalemate with Kuwait over cuts in the cartel's surging produc­tion in the spring. 
Saudi Arabia's influential oil minister, Hisham Nazer, met with OPEC president Alirio Parra of Venezuela over the gridlock. 
Kuwait has so far refused to go along with an effort by the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to reduce output and keep crude prices from tumbling in the spring when demand for oil falls. 
The cartel's failure to get a quick agreement over the weekend caused oil prices in Asia and Europe to fall some. 
"The problem is OPEC over­promised, indicating they could wrap this up very quickly," said Paul Mlotok, head of energy research at Morgan Stanley in New York. "So now that they 

...·..... 
haven't, people are disap­pointed." 
Kuwait refused late Sunday to give in to demands for produc· tion restraint in the coming months. It argued that it should be exempted from cutbacks be­cause of the billions in damage oil industry suffered under Iraqi occupation. 
But Saudi Arabia, Iran, Nige­ria and others contend that Kuwait must make sacrifices as well to try to get prices higher. 
Some delegates appeared angry at Kuwait's insistence on special treatment. Nigerian of­ficials said they need oil rev· enues as much as anybody be· cause of difficult economic problems. 
Prices are running more than $3 a barrel under the group's target of $21 a 42-gallon barrel. They' have strengthened some in recent weeks on expectations of cutbacks. 
The producers fear they could tumble even more in the spring 

Poverty threatens illegal workers 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Thou­sands of people work for cash -washing dishes, harvesting vegetables, cleaning homes and office buildings. But when they retire from the nation's underground economy, there may be no monthly Social Se­curity check to protect them from poverty. 
It's not clear how many em­ployers fail to pay Social Secu­rity taxes for their workers, although the issue is the subject of an Internal Revenue Service study. But there are signs it is a sizeable number. 
The IRS estimated in 1991 that only one-fourth of an esti­mated 2 million household em­ployers filed the required tax forms for their workers. 
And a Social Security Admin­istration official told congres­sional investigators that 1989 data showed farm employers were at least three times as likely as other employers to fail to report or to under-report their workers' earnings. 
Experts say thousands of workers could wind up in poverty when they retire be­cause their employers failed to report some -or any -of their earnings to the govern­ment. Social Security retire­ment benefits are based on a worker's lifetime, reported earnings. 

when demand for crude dries up with warmer weather. 
At the urging of Saudi Arabia, the nations agreed to pare a million barrels a day off their winter supply cap of 24.6 mil­lion barrels a day. Actual output is running about 500,000 bar­rels a day above that. 
One delegate, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said all nations favor a new production level of 23.5 million to 23.6 mil· lion barrels a day in coming months. 
"Everybody thinks that's the right ceiling -everybody with­out exception," he said. 
But the producers cannot agree on how to share out any cuts and the cartel is under pressure to come up with a credible arrangement. 
The OPEC nations have ig­nored so many past pledges of cutbacks that the price-setting oil markets will be doubtful about any new promises. 
"There is an awful lot of cheating going on." says Dan Schulder, legislative director for the National Council of Senior Citizens. "It's scandalous." 
Commerce Secretary Ron Brown and Zoe Baird, President Clinton's first nominee for attorney general, called atten­tion to the situation when they acknowledged they had not paid Social Security taxes for their domestic help. 
But other occupations ­farmworkers, day-laborers, janitors, restaurant and hotel help, some construction work­ers -are also affected by em­ployers who fail to pay taxes on their workers' earnings. Many are immigrants, people of color, or people who don't speak English, experts say. 
"It's a class issue as well as a racial issue," Schulder says. "It's one of the messy, dirty little secrets of our society." 
Under the law, an employer who pays a worker more than $50 in any quarter of the year also owes Social Security and Medicare taxes. The employer and the employee each are re­quired to pay 7.65 percent of wages, although some employ­ers pay the full amount. 
It takes roughly 10 years in the work force to qualify for a Social Security pension, and lesser time to qualify for disability or survivor's benefits. The maximum monthly retirement .benefit for an individual is $1,128 and the average check is $653. 
Social Security used to pay a minimum benefit of $122 a month. but the Reagan admin­istration and Congress elimi­nated that in a cost-cutting move in the early 1980s. 
The biggest checks go to middle-and upper-income workers. But the benefit for­mula actually is skewed to pro­vide a more generous return to low-wage workers in compari­son to taxes paid. 
A full-time worker who re· tired this year at 65 after a life­time of minimum wage work would qualify for a monthly So­cial Security check of $496. 
Low-income retirees or dis­abled workers may also qualify for Supplemental Security In­come (SSI), a welfare program. But the benefits, even when combined with food stamps, often are not enough to pull someone out of poverty. 
"There's no doubt about the fact that people on SSI are the poorest of the poor," says Arthur Flemming, chairman of the Save our Security Coalition. "They have to decide each day whether to spend the small amount of cash that they have for food or housing or clothing." 
"Irish Impact" poster to benefit homeless 
By NANCY FENOCKETTI 
Business Writer 
"Irish Impact," a poster whose proceeds will benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless, will be on sale be­ginning Junior Parents' Week­end. 
The marketing of the 22"x34" horizontal full-color poster of this past season's Penn State football game upset was the work of Molly O'Neill, outgoing student body vice-president, and its photographer, Bill Mowle, managing editor of the Dome. 
For the past three years, Mowle's hobby has been taking pictures of the games. This particular one struck him as something special. 
He approached O'Neill and Lou Nanni, director of the Center for the Homeless, after break with an idea. "I just showed both of them the pic­ture and they both became very excited about the potential for the poster," Mowle said. 
"The neatest thing about it is that it's pure football," said O'Neill. Unlike most Notre Dame memorabilia that focuses on a standout player, the picture of at least five Irishmen and five Nittany lions "symbolizes team effort," she said. 
Mowle chose the title Irish Impact. "When you look at the poster, it sums it up in two words: it's Notre Dame, and it's a collision," said Mowle. 
O'Neill approved. They didn't want it to be "anything offen­sive to Penn State." The title conveys that the game is a "gentlemen's rivalry," O'Neill said. 
Both Mowle and O'Neill wanted the poster to be a fundraiser for the Center for the Homeless. "It's a great way to support a project that em­powers people to get out of the position they're in," said Mowle. 
"The Center not only feeds and clothes the homeless, but also educates the guests," said Mowle. Because it's having fi­nancial problems and "can't guarantee the amounts of do­nations, this will help them meet their budget," said O'Neill. Altogether, they hope to raise $50,000 for the cause. 
The poster, which will cost $10 (or $15 if ordered through Center for the Homeless,) will be on sale starting this Friday in the center, student dorms and at the information desk at LaFortune. Saturday, fans can purchase posters from 12pm to 4pm in the LaFortune O'Hara lounge or at the Alumni Legacy Reception in the concourse of the JACC from 4pm to 5pm. 
With Hall Presidents' Council initially financing the project, 5,000 will be released for sale this weekend. O'Neill and Mowle expect there to be de­mand for even more than that. According to Mowle, "early re­sponse from class council has been really positive." 
Fans eager to get a glimpse of the poster full-size before this weekend can view it either in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune or at a press confer­ence this Thursday. Lou Holtz will unveil the poster at 11am at the Center for the Homeless on 813 South Michigan Ave. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, February 16, 1993 
-------~--J 

The Observer 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Edltor....•.......••._•••••.David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Colleen Evale Viewpoint Editor ............. ._... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...._.Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ......._._._.Michael Scrudato Production Manager ._._..._.Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ._..._._._..Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ______________ Patrick Barth Photo Edltor.._._...... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller._._._._._.,.,.,________ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631 -4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631 -5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
.... .. 

First Lady Hillary Clinton oversteps her powers 
The president's face graces the But appearances do matter the votes; 'not-X' to govern. attacking Hillary in full fury cover of thE~ latest issue of and giving the President's wife Victor Morton Hillary has made herself and would be terribly sexist. Can't "Newsweek -Hillary whatever­an official role creates From the Hip thus her likening of marriage to she defend herself? These are her-last-name-is-this-month." unnecessary impressions. A slavery, her contempt for full­the 90's and chivalry and honor
then her views are as relevant 
The reason so many of us just first lady does not even need time home-makers and the are dead. The feminists and the 
as any other potential adviser,
refer to her as "Hillary" is that such a role to the powerful Lady traditional family and her post-structuralists on the
especially since Hillary would 
it's the only name she has that Macbeth didn't have a cabinet desire to make family authority faculty have spent their careers
be the one administration 
she has never changed for po­position. Hiring one's wife a subject for litigation (plus debunking such patriarchal
member we knew for certain 
litical gain. It's the only way we simply looks like nepotism, and whatever Freudian slips come myths I was old as an un­
beforehand and would also be 
can be certain we're right. the official candidate said we from her mouth during the next dergraduate by a radical femi­
the one cabinet member he 
Not only is she chairing the can't even have the appearance three years-all perfectly nist literature professor that
couldn't fire if she screwed up
task force on health care, which of impropriety -witness Kirnba legitimate targets). chivalry "puts women on a 
or became a public
the man who was theoretically Wood who broke no law. Does Nor do these objections have pedestal in order to look up
embarrassment. 

€lected President says is his top anyone seriously believe that if anything to do with sexism. The their dresses" Let them have
A bait-and-switch has been 
domestic priority, but she some other cabinet member husbands of women heads of their way. No more double
done. The·statements to stir up
apparently was also in charge wants to tell Hillary at a government should be Just as standards.
the Democratic activists in the 
of the search for attorney meeting that she's full of it, that circumspect. We conservatives Hillary has also betrayed
primary, "we're a blue-plate
general Oops!). made sure only the other secretary will be worship at the shrine of feminism. Hemember back
special" and "if you want him,
her buddy Donna Shalala was completely honest? Involving Margaret Thatcher (who had when Barbara Bush was invited 
you get me," were presumably
interviewed for Secretary of one's spouse in a professional some unkind words for Hillary to give the commencement
to be put aside for the general
llealth and Human Services, inner circle simply asks for an last week). I couldn't tell you a address at Wellesley College. 
election just like "Rodham" was 
and has been up on Capitol Hill extraneous set of considerations single thing about what Denis We were all told by the
for an earlier election. Now 
meeting with key senators like We don't have a first lady: we Thatcher thought about Wellesley feminist collective et
safely in power, Hillary can 
some cabinet officer who actu­have a co-president or at least a anything, and I'm not even sure al how Bush was a bad role
show her true colors and has 
ally had to be confirmed. cabinet member. If Hillary was I'd recognize him if he passed model since she is prominent
changed her surname yet again. 
Shortly after the Republican going to pick cabinet members, me on the street. merely by virtue of whom she is
A pattern emerges. 'X' to get
eonvention last year. a cartoon directly lobby Congress, etc ... Indeed if anything, not married to; that she piggy­showed a mangled pile marked 
backed on her husband's sue­
"Hillary" while walking away cess. (That charg11 wasn't flung from it were three or four at Haisa Gorbaehev; but that's elephants in black leather jack­another story.) 
ets, one of which said Do I lillary and her supporters "Buchanan." That elephant said really think she has not profited "she asked for it." implication from her husband's election being that the unkind things victory? No one denies Hillary's said about Hillary were competence and general somehow out-of-bounds and qualifications to hold a cabinet tantamount to gang rape. The post in a liberal administration official candidate struck a simi­on her own merit. But if Paul lar chord wondering what was Tsongas or Bob Kerry had won the relnvance of his wife's the nomination and · the opinions on anything. accusing election, and even if she were the Hepublicans of wanting to chosen for the cabinet, she run for first lady. would still have nothing like the 
No one objects to a clout she will have In this President's wife, or a Presi­administration. There is a word dent's husband being the closest for those who profit from their and most trusted adviser. It mating habits. could hardly be otherwise, and Victor Morton is a Ph.D. can· has often made the difference didate in the Government De­on substantivE~ decisions. partment. 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that. But the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.' 
Mark Twain 
QUOTES, PO. Box Q. ND,IN 46556 

--~~~--~­
Accent 
Tuesday, February 16, 1993 page 11 


or sa e stu ent 
Saint Mary's sophomore Kristy Schinderle combines studies with acareer in real estate 
By CASEY HALL 
Accent Writer 
E 
very once in a while, someone with initiative and desire can accomplish something out of the ordinary. Saint Mary's sophomore Kristy Schinderle, an accredited real estate 
agent. is a person who . 
possesses such qualities. 
Schinderle, a Business Ad­
ministration major, holds a 
real estate license in her 
home town of Newaygo, 
Michigan at the Lyda Real 
Estate, Inc. office. 
Schinderle explained that she became involved in real estate as a result of a summer job at the Lyda Real Estate office. Hired as a personal assistant to the office broker, Schinderle spent a lot of time writing ads, helping with the office upkeep, and talking to many of the office's clients. 
There were times, 
Schinderle explained, that her 
young age and inexperience 
in dealing with the public 
made her feel naive when 
talking with clients. 
"At times I felt ignorant on 
the phone as people asked me about homes they had seen, prices, or the area," she said, "and I didn't have the knowl­edge to answer their ques­tions." 
Schinderle's determination to become a real estate agent helped her to overcome this initial lack of knowledge. With her own funds and the support of her parents, she 


business -how to fill out fi­boss' first words to her were, nance forms, complete the "Get to work." figures, and various laws." Working was tough in the 
beginning for Schinderle, due 
Following the completion of to her lack of experience in the course, Schinderle took a business dealings and public five-hour Michigan state Real communication. Estate exam and passed. "It was hard being profes­When told of her successful sional in something I had no completion of the exam, her personal experience in," she decided to apply for her real estate license. 
"I decided to get my license just to prove to myself that I could accomplish something on my own," she said. 
She enrolled in a 40-hour real estate class that "focused on the financial part of the said. Yet with the support of her parents, the office broker at Lyda, and her fellow agents, Kristy has developed a wide range of skills and knowledge, she said. 

Despite the distance between Saint Mary's and home, Schinderle maintains close contact with her office. She explained that while her broker manages her daily business, she checks in weekly with her clients to ensure they are doing well and that they are satisfied. 
Most of Schinderle's business comes from middle­aged families. "I get a lot of my business from walk-ins, telemarketing, and word of mouth," she said. 
Right now Schinderle is working toward a degree in Business Administration with a concentration in finance and marketing. Schinderle hopes real estate can serve as a foundation to sales and marketing as it has helped refine her communication skills. Following graduation, she hopes to "look into the financial end of real estate and expand on the knowledge I already have." 
Schinderle would like to maintain her real estate li­cense, regardless of what she decides to do after graduation. Even though this may require additional training and funds, Schinderle believes it is well worth the financial cost. "If I wanted to," she said, "I could make my life in real estate." 
'Groundhog Day': Novel concept, but length makes laughs grow old 
GET ME THE HELL OUTTA
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Groundhog Day 
HERE!
Film Critic 
8:2~ I awake to the familiar
Produced By Trevor Albert and 
sight of Bill Murray, once again
Ten minutes of hopeless 
Harold Ramis 
coveriflg the annual festivitiespreviews had finally ended. my of Punxsutawny's Groundhogoverly salted popcorn was re­
Directed By Harold Ramis 
Day. That groundhog remindsduced to recalcitrant kernels, 
* 
me of the gopher in
and my Coke was flat-and 
(out of five) 
"Caddyshack." I laugh aloud asthen. and then IT began. 
I recite to myself: "licensed to7:16 Bill Murray (I love Bill and it is evident that Murray's kill varmints." The laugh

Murray) and Harold Hamis-thi" fiJm cannot f?il. sly rem~rks and ironic jokes echoes resoundingly through­
are no( appreciated by hi~ out the otherwise silent theater. 
Their collaborations have pro­kinder cohorts. 8:45 If I sneak out of hereduced such classics as "Stripes" 7:30 Oh, I get it. .. every maybe I can catch the end ofand "Ghostbusters." 

morning he wakes up to the "The Vanishing." I try to pro­7:20 First shot of Bill Murray same day, doing that which re­pose the idea to my friends, butplaying Phil Connors, a weath­pulses him the most-covering "visions of sugarplums" areerman who is dissatisfied with Groundhog Day. Each morning, dancing through their heads. Iboth his occupation and society. 
at precisely 6:00 a.m., he must, therefore, watch the filmMurray is the reigning king of receives a wake-up call com­to its end. Some sequences are
physical comedy and ludicrous facial expressions. He is a con­pliments of Sonny and Cher ("I humorous toward the conclu­Got You Babe"). sion of the film. 

temporary version of Art Car­ney. lie has the most hilarious 

Murray must relive his per­Murray's character becomes sonal nightmare time and time the talk of the town-his abilityrole in the funniest film of all again. He uses the knowledge to correct the mistakes of thetime: "Caddyshack." 
obtained the previous day to prior day allows him toI wonder if he'll be as good 
better his status in the com­transform himself into the
this time around? Murray is 

munity, and to sweettalk Mae­model citizen. 
required to travel to Punx­sutawny, Pa., with his producer, Dowell-with his hindsight he 9:00 There's no way Harold is able to say all the right Ramis has the audacity toportrayed by Andie MacDowell, things. Interesting premise, but inflict this treachery upon an

and their cameraman, Chris 

isn't it going to get a bit... audience for more than anElliott. The relationship among 8:12 REPETITIVE, BORING, hour and a half. This novel
the three is quite humorous, 


-

concept may perhaps be funny Halleluia, get me to my car. My in a sitcom format. I can "friends" look at me as ifl were picture Jerry Seinfeld pulling Judas. They wanted to see this off-it would only be for 30 Loaded Weapon 1"-they just minutes, and, more wanted to be entertained for a importantly, it's free. couple of hours. 
9:04 FINE (no, not I won't tell them I get reim­"fine"-ltalian for THE END). bursed. 
-~---~--------------·­
r The Observer 
page 12 

Bulls snap home losing streak 
CHICAGO (AP) -Michael Jordan scored 32 points and the Chicago Bulls beat the Sacramento Kings 119-101 Monday. ending their three­game home losing streak. 
Scottie Pippen added 26 points for Chicago, inducting a three­point play that capped a 9-0 run at the start of the fourth quarter, putting the Bulls ahead 94-78. 
The loss was the eighth in nine games for the Kings, who were led by Wayman Tisdale and Anthony Bonner with 18 points each. 
Chicago played without start­ing forward llorace Grant, who has a bruised back. 
Jordan scored 20 points in the second quarter in helping Chicago take a 61-46 halftime lead. Bonner had 12 points in the third quarter as the Kings dosed to 81-78. 
Cavaliers 110, Pacers 1 05 
Mark Price celebrated his 29th birthday with 25 points and .John Williams scored four of his 23 in a four-second span late in the game as Cleveland handed Indiana its seventh consecutive loss. 
The win was the Cavs' third straight and eighth in nine games, while the Pacers are in their longest losing streak since Bob Hill became head coach in 1990. 

Miller and Pooh Richardson each scored 24 points for the Pacers. 
Heat 130, Nuggets 129 
The Miami Heat. after six consecutive overtime losses this season, finally got a victory for extra work, beating Denver in double overtime on Glen Rice's two free throws with 11 seconds left. 
Steve Smith had 21 points, 12 assists and 10 rebounds for the Heat -the second triple-dou­ble in franchise history -be­fore fouling out in the second overtime. 
Brian Shaw scored 23 points and Grant Long 22 for the Heat, who have gone into overtime in six of 17 games since Jan. 12. Miami had a two-point lead and the ball with 1.8 seconds left in regulation, but a turnover and a buzzer shot by Dikembe Mutombo forced the overtime. 
Bucks 128, Hornets 122 
Frank Brickowski scored 20 points and Milwaukee's reserves, led by rookie Jon Barry, held off a late rally against Charlotte. 
Barry, getting a chance to play because of an elbow injury to Todd Day, scored a career-high 18 points, including 12 in the 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING 287-4082 
TYPING 256-6657 
Part·time work in publishing/distribution. Creative skills. PC knowledge helpful. PO Box 1349 South Bend IN 46634 
·sENIORS• $5 BUS TO CHICAGO This Friday Scavenger Hunt Bus Leaves 6:15pm returns 3:30am SIGN UP NOW @ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
•THE DATING GAME· Come to Senior Bar This Thurs 8:00 Donations taken for St. Hedwigs 
Class T·Shirts are now in II $8 buy @ Sr. Class Office 
The Official St. Patrick's Day T·Shirt only $10 
Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 df!ily 233· 2342 ND Ave & Howard 
-
Dissertations, Theses, Term Papers Word Works Typing Service 277-7406 
ECON TUTOR Principles/lnt Manageriai/BCA Call Tony Sindone 1-325·8918 
Rider sought returning from spring break In SFO/SAC area. Call Brian 3677. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
You found my sportcoat. Please call back: 288-3839 or 1·7226 (days). 
LOST-Men's tan leather jacket with leather gloves in the pockets. Lost during the I.S.O. party at the Greek Orthodox church. Please call Rich at x4153. 
LOST: Gold circle earring on a dangling hook at Keenan Revue-1/28 Call 284-5254 
LOST: Gold and silver Seiko watch. Lost on 2/9/93. REWARD!!! If found contact Buffy at x3772. 
Found: jacket at Corby's the first week of school. Call 271-7288 and ask for Mary to identify. 
LOST-Men's black wool dress coat during ISO party. -Was Christmas gift. Please call Ch.uck at #3277 
LOST LOST LOST LOST BLUISH I PURPLE LEATHER GLOVES at SOUTH DINING HALL on Fri. 2/12. CALL JACKIE at x2205. 
At the DILLON FORMAL. we switched long, green coats. Mine is blue-green with apple stitches on the inside. Call Molly x4121 
Lost: one watch at the Holy Cross Formal while at Holy Cross. If found, please contact Eric at •4284. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS" CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800· 786-8373. 
Adoption-Active, Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1 -800-682-8628. 
INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT · Make money teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. Many provide room & board + other benefits I Make $2.000·$4.000+ per month. No previous training or teaching certificate required. For employment program call: 
(206) 632·1146 ext. J5584. 
Mothers helper needed part time days and evenings. Perfect for summer job also. Must be friendly, with experience and own car. 232· 2201 
$$ 
I need a ride to Indianapolis for Spring Break!! Vince 272-8503 

fourth quarter when he hit a pair of 3-pointers. 
Alonzo Mourning had 29 points, 12 rebounds and six blocked shotsw, while Dell Curry scored 24 points for the Hornets, who had their four­game road winning streak snapped. 
Curry and Kendall Gill hit back-to-hack 3-pointers to bring the Hornets within two with 1:47 remaining. but Barry scored five points and Fred Roberts, another backup, had four free throws the rest of the way to keep Milwaukee in front. 
Jazz 112, Timberwolves 91 
Karl Malone scored 16 of his 38 points in the third period on 7 -for-7 shooting as Utah contin­ued to dominate Minnesota. 
The Jazz are 3-0 this season against the Timberwolves, with an average margin of victory of 20 points. 
Malone, who made 16 of 20 field-goal tries in the game, also had 12 rebounds for Utah, while Jeff Malone scored 19 points and John Stockton had 12 assists. 
Chuck Person had 26 points for the Wolves, who have lost six of seven home games. Christian Laettner scored 14 of his 20 points in the second half for Minnesota. 

YOI I NEED A RIDE To DE. PA, So. NJ for Spring Break Call SEAN x1605 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING· Earn $2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 
1 ·206·634·0468 ext. C5584. 
Swimming pool and spa company has opening for retail sales person for Summer season. Underclassmen have opportunity for multiple Summers work. Competitive pay, flexible hours and training provided. Send letter or resume to 19Hl South Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46613 
Help Help! Help! Help! Help! Desperate female seeking ride to Washington D.C. for Spring Break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah@ 284-4308, leave message. 
Babysitting Position Looking for 1 full time or 2 part time students to babysit in our home for our 11 month old child. Must have references and own transportation. Please call for an interview ... 287­3297 
Are you going to Iowa City on Friday? Please take me, I want to visit my friends at the University of Iowa for the weekend! Will help pay gas &tolls. CALL Molly at x1311 
We need a ride for 2 to U of I on JPW weekend. Will pay gas and tolls and keep you entertained on the ride. Call Jess at 2725. 
FOR RENT 

3·5 person furnished house, Sec. System, wash/dry, beach V-ball, PRIME location, 233·9947. 
HOME BED & BREAKFAST AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON WEEKENDS. 
219·291·2899. 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232·3616 
Tuesday,February 16, 1993 

Despite turnovers, poor shooting Tulane wins 18th 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -If a coach can be embarrassed by a ictory, Tulane's Perry Clark 
had plenty of reason to blush. 
The Green Wave knocked off Canisius 63-41 Monday night despite turning the ball over 18 times and hitting only 28 of 66 field· goal attempts. including 2 of 15 3-pointers. 
"Boy it wasn't pretty," Clark said. "If fact I thought we might have to send the kids home. I was worried it would be R­rated it was so ugly." 
"We were just flat coming off the Louisville game," Clark said. "The kids hung in there and did what they had to do, but I don't think I've ever seen them as flat as they were." 
Tulane beat Metro Conference leader Louisville 62-60 on 
ursday night. 


Carlin Hartman was Tulane's gh scorer with 15 points, and 
e did it against a school from his own hometown. 
"I always want to come out 
and play hard," said Hartman, ho is from Buffalo, N.Y. "I 
ew the home crowd would be 
stening to this and that helped me get up for it. We were all 
tired, though." 
The Green Wave (18-4) fell behind 10·2 as they failed to score a basket in the opening 5:55, but they came back to take a 33-19 halftime lead and were comfortably ahead throughout the second half. 
"The ball just wouldn't go through the hoop," said LeWI­dro Simmons. "It was like we couldn't find it all of a sudden." 
Canisius (8-14) hit only 30 percent of its field goal at­tempts. 
Each team turned the ball over 18 times. 
The first three minutes of the game signalled the type of night Tulane would have. The 
turned the ball over three times, picked up two fouls, missed two baskets and two free throws, prompting Clark to send in his second team dubbed "The Posse." 
The backups couldn't come up with a sharpshooter, however, and finished the half shooting under 44 percent. 
Canlsius, meanwhile, wen through a 5:39 dry spell in which its 12·2 lead became 19-13 deficit. 
Simmons had 11 points fo Tulane and Hartman had 12 rebounds. 
..1 don't think we'll be this flat for another game," Simmons said. "It was really frustrating." 
Craig Wise led Canisius with 18 points and 10 rebounds. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR 
SUMMER SCHOOL. GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING PROFS.. PREFERRED. CALL MONICA 232-2794. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Plane Ticket to/from Philadelphia for sale · cheap. Call Sarah x2969 
TICKETS 
I NEED 5 BASKETBALL TICKETS FOR THE MARQUETIE GAMEl!!!!! Please call Chris or Mike x1117 
I need MARQUETIE tickets. Dennis x3447. 
Need 5 Marquette B-balllix. Call Bill at 4·1104 
PERSONAL 
SHORT ON CASH? Borrow from the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
30 day loans Up to $250 @ 1% interest 

Monday · Friday 11:30" 12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
ADOPTION: Were you overwhelmed when you found out you were pregnant? We were overwhelmed when we found out we couldn't have children. We're a Catholic nurse/doctor couple happily married for 9 years. If you want your baby to grow up with patient, loving parents, a large extended family. & two very sweet dogs, please call Mary and Michael 1 -800· 759·6039. 
French high school student, 16 yrs old, looking for host family or exchange in July or August. Interested call271·8621 
We have an awesome hotel room in Daytona for Spring Break, but we need 2 more girls to go in with us. Only $130 for the week + gas $. Call Nicole or Michelle x4530. 
HI Meg, Felicia, Shannon WE MISS YOU! 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the No1re Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. Including all spaces. 
LISTEN UP LISTEN UP LISTEN UP LISTEN UP ALTERNATIVE MUSICIRADIO 
88.9 FM 88.9 FM 12 MIDNITE TO 2AM TUESDAY NITE. 
TONIGHT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!II! CAlL FOR REOUESTS;OR INSULTS 631-7342 
Malleable (mal'-i-a-bl)· capable of being hammered or extended by beating. When you called me malleable. I was skeptical, but after having consulted Mr. Webster. your adjective seems applicable. 
To: a very RICHMONDLIKE guy 
Thank you for making the oppressive day much sweeter! 
From: your four Knott Hall lovers 
•••AWESOME SPRING BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459. JAMAICA $47911·800·678-6386. 
Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling.at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232· 5843. 
MATI (desperate for a personal) CANNIZZO 
Dr. Martin is KEY 
(you'd probably disagree ... .... as ususal) 
MATI (desperate for a personal) CANNIZZO 
Dr. Martin is KEY 
(you'd probably disagree ... .. .. as ususal) Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter. and by ocean waves in summer. Art. music. the best education. endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. 
Kerry-Thanks for a great weekend! (Even though you didn't get any bears) 
Top 10 Quotes from "The Trip" 
10) Come on weather! 
9) How "bout that Sheraton­-what service! 
8) Darn. I lost again! 
7) Hey !heres Curious George! 
6) 2/14/93: Dineen & Palmer were out of hand. 
5) They will not lift a finger!!! 
4) If I had a free hand I'd carry you too! 
3) Here's to ..... 
2) Maybe not today, but 
Jordan will play ... t)OHMYIIIIIIII 
Top Ten Goofy Things from the Dillon Formal, Straight from the Loft of #148: 
10) It tastes like a pickle, Rita. Just bite off the tip. 
9) Is Allison crying? ·No, she's spying through that crack. 
8) These are coming off! -Oh, really, Rita? 
7) FOODIII-BEER!Il-HEAT!!I 
6) And you are ... ? And you're drunk from ...? And you're naked because ... ? 
5) You sat on the sponge? Show us your butt! 
4) I think I have ice down my underwear. 
3) Nice job, Allison! Did you get any in your mouth? 2)That"s a good song .. .What number is it? ...And numero uno for the evening: 
1 )She's ...so po·pu-larl [Allison, Matt·DON'T say that again!] 
Allison. Rita· Thanks for a fantastic evening. You two are the greatest. Much naughtiness. Matt & Jim 

.,_.., ......... _.M-A. • ·e ...-..·•• e...,..,,........,..-..,-...,-.,......., •••ce-o ..._ .......uwa ................ ., ••• ........... .....,..•~•~·. -...•-•••~~~~o... -.·•,#1 
Tuesday, February 16, 1993 
The Observer page 13 
----~----­
.· ~ • 0 • r : . : . : :: :: : :: :: :: :: : f-u~#-0 -~~'
€:> ~~~'ti ~ ..... . . . ...... ...... ...... . . ....... ...... . . ~ n.,. o. 
~ ,, ~~,-;~:-• :: • : :: ••• : : :: :: :: ••• : : '-~]1~9' :U; ~ .­
H~ ••••• ••••• ••••• • • ••••••• •••••• ••••• • • • • •••••• """ ,~ 
NHL STANDINGS NHLSTATS TRANSACTIONS 
NHL Scoring Leaders BASEBALL FOOTBALLWALES CONFERENCE 
NEW YORK (AP)-NHL National Football League
Patrick Division American Leaguescoring leaders through Feb. 14: KANSAS CITY ROY AL$-Agreed to terms CLEVELAND BROWNS-Named Kirk
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div Pittsburgh 37 15 5 79 241 184 22-4-3 15-11-2 16-5-2 Player, Team GP G A PTS PIM with Jeff Montgomery, pitcher, on a three­Ferentz offensive line coach and Mike Lemieux, Pgh 40 39 65 104 28 Sheppard offensive assistant. 
Washington 28 22 6 62 230 204 12-7-5 16-15-1 9-11-2 year contract. 
LaFontaine, Buf 57 36 68 104 51 TEXAS RANGERs-Agreed to terms with DETROIT LION$-Signed Don Reynolds,NY Rangers 25 24 9 59 226 221 17-8-4 8-16-5 10-14-3 New Jersey 27 24 4 58 198 195 
16-10-1 11-14-3 12-12-1 Oates, 9os 58 35 65 100 26 Brian Bohanon and Barry Manuel, pitchers, defensive end. Yzerman, Del 59 44 47 91 32 on one-year contracts. PHILADELPHIA EAGLEs-AnnouncedNY Islanders 25 25 6 56 230 205 13-12-2 12-13-4 13-11-1 
Mogilny, Buf 50 56 32 88 28 National League they have extended the contract of RichPhiladelphia 19 28 9 47 214 228 14-11-4 5-17-5 7-14-3 Gilmour, Tor 57 22 65 87 54 HOUSTON ASTRO$-Agreed to terms Kotite, coach, for one year through the
Adams Division Montreal 
35 18 6 76 240 191 21-7-2 14-11-4 15-7-0 Recchi, Pha 56 34 52 86 52 with Mark Portugal, pitcher, on a one-year 1994-95 season. Selanne, Wpg 57 45 39 84 39 Arena Football League
Quebec 30 18 9 69 230 205 15-11-2 15-7-7 13-7-3 contract. Boston 31 22 5 67 231 206 18-7-2 13-15-3 12-8-1 MONTREAL EXPOs-Agreed to terms
Turgeon, NYI 55 35 49 84 22 CLEVELAND THUNDERBOLT$-Named Buffalo 29 22 6 64 246 200 21-6-2 8-16-4 14-7-3 with Yorkis Perez, pitcher, on a minor­
Bure, Van 56 47 36 83 38 Jeffrey Kuczek general manager. Hartford 15 37 4 34 180 256 8-15-4 7-22-0 8-16-2 league contract. 
Stevens, Pgh 48 43 37 80 94 HOCKEY Ottawa 7 48 4 18 134 277 7-21-4 0-27-0 3-20-1 Janney, StL 58 16 64 80 10 PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE$-Agreed to National Hockey League CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Hull, SIL 58 39 38 77 35 terms with Terry Mulholland, pitcher, on a LOS ANGELES KING$-Agreed to terms Robitaille, LA 56 38 39 77 70 one-year contract. with Rick Knickle, goaltender. Sent David
Norris Division 
ST. LOUIS CARDINAL$-Agreed to terms Goverde, goalie, to Phoenix of the Interna­32 20 8 72 205 166 18-7-4 14-13-4 15-9-2 with Bob Tewksbury, pitcher, on a one-year tional Hockey League. 
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Div Blues-Rangers, Sums

254 18-11-2 12-11-3 contract.
31 21 7 69 201 13-10-5 ------------­ST. LOUIS BLUE$-Sent Brei Hedican,
St. Louis 0 1 0-1
202 13-10-6 BASKETBALL
29 21 8 66 190 16-11-2 12-9-3 defenseman, to Peoria of the International
N.Y. Rangers 2 2 0-4 
27 22 8 62 191 174 16-10-4 11-12-4 13-11-5 National Basketball Association 
Hockey League. 25 26 8 58 
First Perlod-1, New York, Zubov 6
200 209 15-11-5 10-15-3 9-12-5. DALLAS MAVERICKs-Signed Lamont
(Kovalev, Weight), 5:20. 2, New York,
Tampa Bay 19 35 4 42 180 216 10-16-2 9-19-2 7-16-2 Strothers, guard, to a 10-day contract. 
Amante 23 (Messier, Olczyk), 12:20. 
Smythe Division INDIANA PACERS-Placed LaSalle NCAA POLLS 
Penalties-McRae, StL (roughing), :21;
173 12-12-4 Thompson, forward, on the list.
Vancouver 32 16 8 72 246 20-4-4 17-5-2 injured
Messier, NY (roughing), :21; Graves, NY,
Calgary 31 19 7 69 227 191 16-10-3 15-9-4 15-5-3 Activated Kenny Williams, forward, from the
minor-game misconduct (roughing), :21; Baseball America Top 25
25 26 6 56 207 219 16-10-2 9-16-4 11-9-3 injured list.
Emerson, StL (holding stick), 1 :37; Baron, DURHAM, N.C. (AP)-The top 25 college 
24 25 7 55 221 239 14-12-4 10-13-3 10-13-2 ORLANDO MAGIC-Activated Brian
StL (cross-checking), 2:42; Lowe, NY baseball teams as determined by the staff of 
21 29 8 50 166 215 13-11-5 8-18-3 9-16-1 Williams, forward-center, from the injured
(hooking), 6:26; Vanbiesbrouck, NY, served Baseball America magazine, record through 
7 48 2 16 152 286 4-22-1 3-26-1 5-19-1 list.
by Kovalev (delay of game), 8:26; Shana­Feb. 14, with previous rankings: 
Continental Basketball Association
han, SIL (interference), 15:12. Record Pvs
CAPITAL REGION PONTIAC$-Relieved
Second Period~. New York, Olczyk 11 1. Louisiana State 0-0 1
director of player personnel-coach Kevin
(Messier), 6:17.4, St. Louis, Hull40 (Janney, 2. Georgia Tech 7-0 2
Mackey of his coaching duties. Named Jim
Emerson), 8:24 (pp). 5, New York, Kovalev 3. Arizona 5-3 3
Price interim coach. Signed Chris Collier,
14 (Cirella), 16:06. Penalties-Kovalev, NY 4. Oklahoma State 0-0 4
forward.
(holding), 2:35; King, NY (holding), 7:22; 5. Texas 7-2 5
FARGO-MOORHEAD FEVER-Signed
Giles, StL (tripping), 9:03; Butcher, StL 6. Cal St.-Fullerton 3-3 6
Tracy Moore, guard. 
(roughing), 20:00; Gartner, NY (roughing), 7. Mississippi State 0-0 7
FORT WAYNE FURY-Aquired Scooter
20:00. 8. WIChita State 0-0 8
Barry, guard, from the Wichita Falls Texans
Third Period-None. Penalties-Patrick, 9. Arizona State 1 0-2 9
for a 1993 fourth-round draft pick and future 
NY, major-game misconduct (high-sticking), 10. Miami 2-4 10
considerations.
:59; Crossman, SIL (elbowing), 5:05; Zombo, 11. Stanford 6-2 1 3 
LA CROSSE CATBIRDs-Activated Der­
StL (hooking), 6:07; Lowe, NY (holding the 12. TexasA&M 6-0 12
rick Garvin, forward. Placed Daryl Thomas, 
stick). 1 0:46; Olczyk (hooking), 11 :49; 13. Southern Cal 3-5 11
forward, on the injured reserve list.
McRae, SIL, major (fighting), 18:58; Kocur, 14. Pepperdine 5-4 14
OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Activated
NY, minor-major (elbowing, fighting), 18:58. 15. Notre Dame 0·0 15
Mike Bell, forward. Placed Michael Smith,
Shots on goal-St. Louis 6-17-12-35. 16. N.C. State 3-1 16
forward, on the injured reserve list.
Boston at Montreal, 7:40 p.m. 
New York 17-10-14-41. 17. UCLA 2-0 17
OMAHA RACER$-Acquired Greg Wiltjer, Buffalo at Hartford, 7:40p.m. 
Power-play Opportunities-St. Louis 1 of 18. Florida 4-1 22
center, from the Oklahoma City Cavalry forOttawa at Quebec, 7:40 p.m. 
9; NewYorkOof6. 19. Fresno State 4-2 18
the rights to John Mcintyre, guard, DanSt. Louis at New Jersey, 7:40 p.m. 
Goalies-St. Louis, Joseph 18-20-6 (41 20. Minnesota 1-2 19
O'Sullivan, forward, and future considera­Calgary at Toronto, 7:40p.m. 
shots-37 saves). New York, Vanbiesbrouck 21. Clemson 0-0 20 Tampa Bay at Detroit, 7:40p.m. 
tions. Signed Melvin Robinson, center.
13-12-6 (35-34). 22. Houston 1 0-0 
Los Angeles at Minnesota, 8:1 0 p.m. ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Daren
A-18,200. 23. CS Northridge 3-0
Engellant, center. Acquired Terry Ross, for­
Referee-Denis Morel. Linesmen­24. Creighton 0-0 24
ward, from the Rockford Lightning for a 1993
Bernard Degr~ce; Ray Scapinello. 25. Tennessee 0-0 25
fourth-and fifth-round draft pick . 
Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: the perfect Macintosh system to fit your budget. 
1Wo inexyensive combinations 
thatwillhelpyou survive eventhe 
mostgruelingsemester. 
-
~~ 

-
Pepperoni andMushroom. 

71Je affordable. new Apple StyleWriter II andApple Macintosh Color Classic. 
Introducing the most affordable color Macintosh~ sys­while still fitting within your budget. See this new system tem ever. The new Macintosh Color Classic-computer gives today at your Apple Campus Reseller. Where you'll get spe­you asharp, bright Sony 1linitron display, built-in audio, file cial student pricing, as well as service during college And sharing, networking and more. And the new, compact Apple' discover the power of Macintosh. The power more .~ StyleWriter' II printer delivers stunning, laser-quality output college students choose. The power to be your bese • 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB • 631-7477 
"Serria' L< tlmilable ou{rjrom A{lflle Cmnpu.< IIA!se/lm uiJicb an! A{lflle .lulbori:edSerria' Protillers. ©1..993 Apple C.mput" luc..lll ngb/.< n!.<l!l'tru. A{{J/e.tbe .l{1f>le logo..l!ttciuto.<h. Sl)ie~riler mui"Tbe poa., to be)VItr besJ ·lin! rer.Meretl hudemtirll.< of .4[Jple Computer. /uc. Qas.'ik is a regislemltrtulemarli. licensed to Apple Computer. /11c. Trinitrrm i.~ a ft'Jl,i.'Oiered Jrarlemtlrk oj'.'to1~1· Corporalwu. 
~~------------p-a_g_e_1_4____,,,.----~------------------------------------T-h_e_O_b_s_e_N_e_r____ 
., 
-

-
Two juniors take different routes to NFL 
INDIANAPOLIS (APJ -Wide 
receivers Sean Dawkins of Cali­
forn.f and Southern Cal's Curtis 
Conway, two juniors who 
decided to skip their senior year 
of eli.gibility, took different 
paths to the NFL. 
Both were at the NFL Scouting 
Combine that ended Monday, 
but only Dawkins worked out in 
the Hoosier Dome for 
representatives of the 28 teams. 
'Tm glad to have the oppor­
tunity to come in and impress 
people with my skills and per­
sonality," said Dawkins, who set 
school records for catches, 
receiving yards and touchdowns 
this past season. "For the most 
part, scouts haven't gotten a 
real good look at me and most 
of them haven't even seen film 
of me playing." 
Conway, however, decided to 
have the scouts do their eval­
uating at a later date in Cali­
fornia. 
'I feel this was a good oppor­
tunity for them to get a look at 
me. Each player here has to 
make their own decision on 
this," Dawkins said. "Mine was 
to work out. But, I don't dis­
agree with someone who de­
cided to wait. Either way, all the 
teams that are interested in you 
SMU fires, hires football coaches 
DALLAS (APJ -Southern Methodist coach Tom Rossley fired three assistant coaches and hired four more on Monday in an off-season shakeup of the Mustangs football team. 
Rossley hired Tommy Adams, defensive line, who spent the last eight seasons as an assis­tant at Sam Houston State; David Knaus, linebackers, who was the defensive coordinator at Appalachian State the past four years; Bill Maskill, defen­sive assistant, who was an as­sistant at Wake Forest the past three seasons; and Vincent White, receivers, the offensive coordinator at the University of the Pacific. 
Dismissed were Rusty Russell, Mike Washburn and Curtis Jones. A fourth coach, Tim Lewis, defensive backs coach for the last four years, resigned to take a similar position at Pittsburgh. 
"This group brings excep­tional talent and experience to SMU," Rossley said. "The fact that we were able to attract such high quality coaches is a credit to our program. I'm very optimistic about our future." 
SMU was 5-6 last year, includ­ing its first two conference vic­tories since it was given the death penalty by the NCAA in 1987. 
Hurry!
Only 1 House Left 
·4 Bedroom ·Security System ·Fully Furnished 
287-4989 
Laurie McKelvey 
$100 off 
first months rent with this ad 

will be checking us again." 
Dawkins has been planning for his trip since becoming one of 37 underclas'smen to declare themselves eligible for the draft in January. 
'Tve been running with the track coaches, working on weights and technique, every­thing I could possibly do," he said. 
Conway said he decided to skip the workout because of a strained knee sustained in his final collegiate game. 
"It's fine now, but it's just not as strong as I want it to be," said Conway, a collegiate sprinter who left the Trojans with school records for most kickoff returns (73) and kickoff return yards (1, 723) -marks that had been held by Anthony Davis. ''I'm going to go back home and continue to run, get my strength back up." 
Conway, who has run the 40 in 4.25, averaged 16.1 yards each time he touched the ball last season and scored touchdowns four different ways -receiving, rushing, kickoff return and punt return -and also threw two scoring passes. 
"My versatility, I think, makes me a valuable player. I can help 
Courier tries for third title 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Jim Courier tries for his third con­secutive title this week, but will have to face the likes of Pete Sampras, Michael Chang and Ivan Lendl to succeed. 
Courier, the world's top­ranked player, comes into the $700,000 U.S. Indoor after victories at the Australian Open and at Memphis, Tenn. There on Sunday, Courier edged Todd Martin 5-7, 7-'6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-4) to win the Kroger-St. Jude In­ternational. 
In two previous appearances in Philadelphia, Courier has not advanced past the quarterfi­nals. 
Sampras, the No. 2 player in the world and a friend of Courier, is a two-time champion here and lost in the 1991 final to Lendl. Chang defeated both Courier and Sampras during a career-high 15-match winning streak last March that included wins at Indian Wells, Calif., and Key Biscayne, Fla. 
a team in many ways and my speed helps me a lot," said Conway, who led USC with 49 receptions for 764 yards and had 1,822 all-purpose yards in 1992. "Once I get the ball, my vision of the field helps me a lot." 
Both are expected to be early picks in the April 25-26 draft, giving depth to a position that some scouts say was weak until the juniors entered the mix. 
"I don't think we compare," Conway said of Dawkins. "He's one type of receiver and I'm another.... He's a great re­ceiver. When we were on de­fense, I'd sit back and watch him. He's a great athlete. A lot of people think that he's slow, but I think he can run with the ball. The big thing is I think I'm shiftier than him." 
Both are certain they made the right decision in giving up Pac-10 play for the NFL. Both are resigned to not earning as much money as recent top picks due to limits on spending on this year's draftees as part of the new labor agreement. 
"I kind of knew it was going to happen. I've been following up 
Courier won five tournaments 
in the first half of last year, in­
cluding the Australian and the 
French, but failed to win a title 
the rest of the year. 

"I think the way he played the 
first six months of last year was 
unbelievable," Sampras said in 
a telephone interview last week 
from Tampa, Fla. "During the 
summer and the fall, I think he 
was a little bit burned out. It 
was tough to maintain that level 
of tennis the whole year." 
Sampras sees himself as a 
more casual and easygoing 
player than Courier. "You can 
see it in his eyes," he said. "He's 
much more intense, much more 
driven." 

Courier's success has a lot to do with his hard work, Sampras said. "Obviously, I still work hard," he said. "But Jim's running after his matches, practicing. I think he feels like he needs to do that just to stay on top." 
Anyone intereste in running for 
Finance 
Club Office 
must turn in ticket by this Wednesday. 
Questions: Amy x4899 or Suzanne x4900 
Tuesday, February 16, 1993 
Photo courtesy of USC Sports Curtis Conway decided to workout at a later combine for NFL scouts. 
on  the  info.  I  know  the  next level," Dawkins said. "I  
agreement is going to cost me  I accomplished everythin  
money, but I  left because I  could at the college level an  
wanted to be challenged at the  wanted to take a step up."  

VILLAGE A.LANDING 
SUNDAY BRUNCH 
10 a.m.-2 p.m. 

Omelettes Made to Order Belgian Waffles each Peel & Eat Shrimp 
$2 OFF person in 
Prime Rib 
your party
' 

Beverage Included 
52565 US 33 N. at Darden Road North Village Mall 
272--8180 


50TH ANNIVERSARY THE SHOW CELEBRATION YOU REMEMBER! 
OPENS NEXT WEEK! 
Rodgers~,

Hammerstem s 
OKLAHOMA! 
Music by RICHARD RODGERS Book and Lyrics by 
OSCAR HAMMERSTEIN 
eased on lht plaY Gll8ll Gllllf ,.tJacS by Lynn Riggs 
()rigNIDa!aSIIY AGNES DE MilLE 
Musical Direction by NANCY MENK Choreography by INDI DIECKGRAFE Set &Lighting Design by SHAUN L. WELLEN Costumes by SYDNEY WELLEN 
Tlulday -Satnday 
FEBRUARY 25-27, 8:00P.M. 
Slllday 
FEBRUARY 28,2:30 P.M. OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TK:KETS:$5 (SU'S-t-1> community with valid i.d.) Available at the Saint Mary's Box Office Otaughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri. 9am.-5 p.m. a.geOrden and ~formation: 284--4626 
-~ 

Tuesday, February 16, 1993 The Observer page 15 

Kite wins 'Just like the Cowboys' 
LA QUINTA, Calif. (AP)-Tom champion Fred Couples said. Kite found a parallel for the And Kite very definitely has a unprecedented scoring binge golf game. For the five days, he that produced his victory in the scored 37 birdies and two ea-Bob Hope Classic. gles; 43 percent of the holes he 
".Just like the Cowboys," Kite, played were negotiated in an Austin, Texas native and numbers under par. longtime supporter of the Super After rounds of 67, 6.7, 64 and Bowl champions, said Sunday. 65, he bullied the rest of the "We got on a roll. then, in the field with a closing, 10-under­fourth quarter. it was a par 62 that included 22 putts, a blowout." 29 over the back side, a holed 
Even the Cowboys, however, 30-yard sand shot for an eagle could not match Kite's five-day and a birdie-birdie-birdie-birdie scoring binge in the California finish on the Arnold Palmer desert. No one ever has. course at PGA West. 
In the 90-hole tournament "I think I'm a better player spread over four resort courses, than I've ever been," Kite said. the 43-year-old U.S. Open "My game is getting to be what champion had a record-I hoped it would be 15 years breaking winning total of 325, ago. 35 under par and four shots "I have a confidence in my better than the old PGA Tour game, a new maturity. There record for 90 holes. aren't too mamy guys I look at 
Kite, who averaged 65 strokes and say, 'this guy is better than a round, cited "perfect weather, I am.' There aren't many. It's a immaculate courses," as short list." contributing factors to golf's Perhaps the most rewarding greatest scoring spree. thing about the 18th victory of 
And, too, there was his own his 22-year career, Kite said, ability, the golf game that just was the manner in which it as keeps getting better as he achieved. moves deeper into his 40's. He has a deserved reputation 
"If you've got a golf game, age as a grind-it-out player, one doesn't matter," Masters who is at his best on the arne's more difficult courses, in more difficult conditions. 
His U.S. Open triumph is a case in point. He won in dreadful weather at Pebble Beach, winning at only 3-under par with only one other man breaking par for the week. 
"This was the other extreme," Kite said. ''I'm playing well on these easier courses, too, because I'm not afraid to shoot these low scores. 
"It's not that I've changed my game or my approach to the game. I've just taken it to a dif­ferent level. I'm still a conser­vative player. 
"But now, when I get to 4­under par, I want to get to 5. When I get to 5-under, I want to get to 6." 
And this time he got to a number no one else has ever achieved:'35. 
The victory, by a six-shot margin, was worth $198,000 from the total purse of $1.1 million. It moved him into the top spot on the year's money-winning list at $292,361. 
It also put the game's all-time money-winning leader within reach of the $8 million plateau. He now has $7,905,279. 

r;;;;;;~~~;;;;~~~~;;;;~~~~;;;;;~;;;;:;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;;;;;;~-!!1~----....;.--.. starts despite eight top-five fin­
1993--94 STUDENT GOVERNMENT GET INV QLVED! 
Applications available in Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune, for the following positions: 
Student Body Secretary Executive Assistant to President Executive Assistant toVice...President 

INTELLECTUAL LIFE DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Academic Commissioner Iceberg Debates Chairperson Speaker Commissioner Hall Fellow Commissioner The Guide Committee Book Fair Commissioner 
LEGAL DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Director of Policy Security Commissioner Policy Analysts 
PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Director of Publicity Notre Dame Today Commissioners Alumni Relations Commissioner ND/SMC Relations Commissioner Foreign Relations Commissioner Job Bank Commissioner 

Jarrett wins one his father didn't 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. (AP)­Dale Jarrett filled a page his father left empty in the family album with his victory in the Daytona 500. 
For Dale Earnhardt, it was another Daytona 500 to forget. 
.Jarrett battled in the lead pack of cars over the final 27 green-flag laps Sunday and outdueled Earnhardt, a five-time NASCAR champion and one of its fiercest competitors. Earnhardt did everything but win-again. 
By denying Earnhardt, Jarrett put a big smile on the face of his father, two-time NASCAR champion and now CBS com­mentator Ned Jarrett. 
Ned Jarrett called the final lap as his son took the checkered flag that he -like Earnhardt-never got in NASCAR's most prestigious event. 
"Super job there, Dale. I tell you, I'm really proud of you." Ned Jarrett told his son over a network headset. 
The son thanked his father and advised him that Ned's near-miss when he ran out of gas while leading the 1963 Daytona 500 with two laps re­maining had been avenged. 
General Council 
STUDENT LIFE DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Women's Concerns Commissioner Campus Improvements Commissioner University Services Commissioner Social Concerns Commissioner Food, Drug, Alcohol, Health Commissioner Residense Hall Liason 
SPECIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT Executive Coordinator Commissioners 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT REPORTS Executive Coordinator Board of Trustee Reports Chairperson Student Body Reports Chairperson 
APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY 5 P.M. THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1993. SIGN 
UP FOR AN INTERVIEW WHEN DROPPING OFF YOUR APPLICATION. 
"You came so close ... " Dale said. "I got this one for you and all the family." 
Jarrett gave Washington Red­skins coach Joe Gibbs his first victory as a NASCAR team owner to open the team's sec­ond year. Jarrett's only other Winston Cup victory came in 1991 with another team. 
.Jarrett was running third and Geoff Bodine fourth with two laps left when Jarrett took mat­ters into his own hands. He passed rookie Jeff Gordon on lap 199 and went after Earn­hardt. 
·-Jarrett caught Earnhardt and the Chevrolet drivers battled side-by-side, touching briefly and reaching the start-finish line for the last lap in a dead heat.. 
"You race Dale Earnhardt like he races you," Jarrett said. "I felt like there'd be nothing less than a slight tap coming." 
Jarrett edged in front and pulled away on the backstretch. Earnhardt couldn't catch him. 
The difference was less than two car-lengths and a winner's purse of $238,200 for Jarrett to $181,825 for Earnhardt, now winless in 15 Daytona 500 
is~:~·nhardt led 11 times for 107 of the 200 laps while Jar­rett led three times for eight 

laps. The official margin of vic­tory was 0.19 seconds. 
"We've lost this race about every way you can lose it," said Earnhardt, who has finished out of the top 10 only four times in this race. "We've been out­gassed, out-tired, outrun, out­everythinged. 
"We've come close, but we'e not won it about every way you can't win it. I guess all that's left to do now is to come back next year and try to win it any way we can." 
He said Jarrett had the strongest engine. 
"I was hoping he couldn't get past Bodine and Gordon and some of those other guys," Earnhardt said. 
Geoff Bodine finished third and Hut Stricklin fourth in Fords, followed by Gordon in a Chevy. 
Gordon, 21, on Thursday had become the youngest driver and second rookie ever to win a Daytona qualifying race. He tucked in behind Earnhardt as both passed Jarrett on lap 179 and stayed there until the win-ner's move. 
Into the last lap Gordon chose to go behind Earnhardt. 
"Nine out of 10 times, the right one would be to go with Dale (Earnhardt)," Gordon said. "It didn't work out." 
Earnhardt's move for position on lap 157 effectively weeded out some of his toughest com­petition. Until then, any of about a dozen cars seemed in the thick of the race. 


a 

r 
' 
I 
page 16
I The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1993 t 
! 
Signings and arbitration lead to spring training 
Reds work through arbitrations 
CINCINNATI (API -The the same day that Reds pitchers 
Cincinnati Reds went to a and catchers are scheduled to 
salary arbitration hearing report to spring training in 
Monday with All-Star infielder Plant City, Fla. 

Bip Roberts. hoping to limit the Belcher asks for $4 million, up 
pay raise he receives this sea­from $2.1 million last season. 
son. The Reds offer $3.3 million. He 
At the hearing Monday in had a 15-14 record and 3.91 
Chicago, Hoberts asked the ar­earned run average last year 
bitrator for $3.9 million, up with a career-high 34 starts. 
from his $1.55 million of last Roberts, in his first season 
season. The Reds said they with Cincinnati last year, made 
would pay him $2.7 million. the All-Star team for the first 
Under baseball's rules, the time in his career. He started arbitrator chooses either the games at four positions: left team's figure or the player's. It field, center field, second base can take several days for the and third base. arbitrator's decision to be an­Roberts is expected to be the nounced. starting second baseman this 
Starting pitcher Tim Belcher, season, since the Reds traded the only other Reds player Bill Doran to Milwaukee and awaiting salary arbitrationr, is obtained outfielders Roberto scheduled for his hearing Kelly and Kevin Mitchell during 
AP file photo
Thursday in Chicago. That is the offseason. 

Jim Gantner (center) moved closer to retirement as Milwaukee named him a coach for Spring training. 
Gantner listed as 

Royals resign Montgomery 
coach for spring 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -had asked for $4.3 million a tudent Volunteers Needed 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Veteran Relief pitcher Jeff Montgomery year and the Royals had offered infielder Jim Gantner, who's agreed Monday to a three-year $3.25 million. He was the last 
to work on bringing the
been with the Milwaukee contract worth $11 million with Kansas City player to settle with Brewers for 15 years, moved the Kansas City Royals. the club. 
near retirement Monday when Montgomery had 39 saves for He recorded 39 saves in 46 the team announced he would the Royals last season. The opportunities with a 2.18 ERA go to spring training as a contract also includes an option last year. His 39 saves were the 
NAMES 
coach. year. third highest in club history -
Gantner, 39, had off-season Montgomery, 31, received trailing Dan Quisenberry's 45 surgery to repair a right rotator $2.46 million last season. He saves in 1983 and 44 in 1984. 
cuff injury, and will report to •••~~~~~·~···""!IJII.........,......!!III.IIft!W'". Project AIDS 
spring training in Chandler, ·~illllj~MJilllii~IIMMII Ariz., when he is able to throw. The Brewers said Gantner will 

Memorial Quilt be a coach but could also be used as a player in an emer­gency, if the shoulder heals properly. The team's release 
to campus. 
did not say Gantner had re­tired. Gantner is the American 

Informal meeting:
League's all-time leader in fielding percentage for a sec­ond basnman at .992. 
"DARKLYCOMICAL 
_hilariously bani edged..
"He will work with the club 

Wednesday, February 17th. 
during the season and also be available for special assign­

6:00p.m.
ments. At the same time, he will stay in shap11 and be avail­

University Health Services
able in case of an emergency," general manager Sal Bando said in a statement. 

SIMPLE MEN
FINE LINE FEATUREI, ZENITH wAMERICAN PIAYHOUIE THEATRICAL FILM\,_,TRUE FICTION PICTURE 
"] think it'S a great Opportu­

'"":FILMFOURINTERNATIONAL ....HAlHARTlEY IIMPLEMEN.ROBERTBURKE WILUAMIAGE KARENIIUAI EUNALOWENIOHN 
nity to go tO spring training 

MARTINDONOVANJOHNMACKAY.:=tMIKEIPIUER '=DANOUEUETTE l:JEROMEBROWNSTEIN&BRUCEWE51 
with some options," Gantner 

I:RJ...;;:;;.;:: • j-HAlH~f!!!!!.?.!:HALHARTlfY p :~::;~~: 
said. "Not being able to cur-1-~~-~--~--~-~--":"":!:~~-~~'!"""";~~~-1 rently play, I am appreciative of 
pee the option to coach. A lot or 
South Bend Premiere! One Night Only! 
players who get out of the 
Morris Civic Auditorium game have nothing to fall back 

Sunday, f:ebruary 21 8:00PM
on." 

Tickets: $5 at the door or in advance at the Ill 
Call 
ALUMNI SENIOR 

LONDON • PARIS • WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL PROGRA • ~• BOSTON UNIVERSITY >0 LEARN HOW THE WORLD WORKS 0 Global Internships and < Language/Liberal Arts Programs > • • • • 0 ~ 0 >< OL-------------------------~~• BEIJING • SYDNEY • MOSCOW •  
Name: _________________________________________ Address::______________________________ City/State/Zip: _______________________ Phone:( ) University: -----------------1 Fall D Spring D Summer D 19__ Internship Programs Language Programs Summer Programs DLondon D Grenoble D London OPeris OOxford D Madrid DMoscow D Hono D Podovo 0Sydney D Madrid D Polls Dwoshlnglon. DC D Podovo D Sydney 0Beijlng OOxford DMoscow return to: D Niamey D BeiJing Boston University, Division of lnternallonol Programs Dvvosh1ngton. DC 232 Bay State Road, Box Q, Boston, MA 02215 or call (61n 353-9888  

Just-published Hal Hartley screen plays are on sale at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Hal will be happy to sign your copy at the reception following the screening. 
i!:CLUB 
Apply today for the best job in the whole world! Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office 3rd floor LaFortune 
Deadline: March 5, 1993 
Tuesday, February 16, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Penguins still successful without Lemieux College coaches meet, discuss 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -OK, so the Pittsburgh Penguins won't go undefeated after the All-Star game, and they'll even allow some goals. No matter their 37­15-5 record and league-leading 79 points, they're not perfect after all. 
But if the rest of the NHL hoped to capitalize on Mario Lemieux's illness to gain parity with the Penguins, they've re­ceived a thousand-volt jolt. 
With Lemieux, the Penguins are the two-time defending Stanley Cup champions. With­out Lemieux, the Penguins are a team that could contend for yet another cup, as their 8-3-1 record in their last 12 games would indicate. 
"What they're doing says a lot for them -and doesn't bode well for the rest of us," Chicago Blackhawks defenseman Keith Brown said. 
That fact hasn't been lost on general manager Craig Patrick, who's usually ready about this time of the season to pull off a trade. He did it two years ago by dealing for Ulf Samuelsson in early March; he did it last February by trading for Rick Tocchet. 
If Patrick makes another pre­playoffs trade this season, don't look for it to include headline names. The Penguins' 9-6-1 record without Lemieux and recent club-record scoreless streak signify these Pens are a 
-
championship-caliber team even without the league's best player. 
"This team has too much tal­ent not to win," said goaltender Tom Barrasso, who may be having his best NHL season de­spite a month-long bout with chickenpox. "There are way too many perfectionists in this room to accept mediocrity." 
Check the standings: the Penguins are 17 points ahead of second-place Washington in the Patrick Division. Check the defense: their goals-against av­erage is down more than a goal per game from a year ago. Check the intangibles. 
Last season, the Pens were barely above mediocre in the regular season before eliminat­ing the NHL's two best-record teams -Washington and the 
New York Rangers  - in the  
opening  two  rounds  of the  
playoffs.  

Even two years ago, when they won their first regular­season division championship, the Penguins didn't transform themselves into Stanley Cup contenders until late in the sea­son . 
• 

protesting Campanelli firing 

' 
• 
• 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -The board of directors of the National Association of Basket­ball Coaches met by phone for 1 1/2 hours Monday, talking about how and whether to protest the firing of California coach Lou Campanelli. 
With a 10-7 record and a young, promising team, Cam­panelli was unexpectedly dis­missed last week. 
"Our hope at this time is to is­sue a statement Tuesday," Jim Haney, NABC executive direc­tor, said. "This firing of coaches at mid-season is an issue that we have to address. There have been four so far this year in Division I, and we understand two more have not been announced. 
"In this particular case, there are a couple of bases left for us to touch before we say any­thing." 
The NABC is powerless to stop the firing ot coaches, who an­swer to the chief executive offi­cer at each school. But the coaches' group, trying to take a more active, public role, could bring embarrassment with its 
• 


command of widespread media attention. 
"We're very sensitive to the fact that the presidents have the authority to make decisions, whether we like the decisions or not," Haney said. "We're trying to get a sense for what happened and how it happened and develop an appropriate response. The broader issue of coaches being fired in-season is a great concern." 
Campanelli, who signed point guard Jason Kidd, one of the most highly sought prospects in the nation last year, won 19 or more games in four of his first five seasons. 
"The biggest thing we're in total agreement on is that the guy wasn't given any hearing before they fired him," said Iowa State coach Johnny Orr, president of the NABC. "On the 24th of January he got a phone call from the chancellor con­gratulating him on the good job he was doing. He got a letter from the guy who fired him saying good job, keep it up. Then two weeks later they fire the guy." 
1 Indiana (59) 22-2 1521 1 2 Kentucky 18-2 1351 2 3 North Carolina (1) 20-3 1348 6 4 Arizona (1 ) 17-2 1305 5 5 Michigan 19-4 1281 4 6 Kansas 20-3 1275 7 7 Duke 19-4 1132 3 8 Cincinnati 19-2 1114 8 9 Florida State 19-6 10641 1 0 Wake Forest 16-4 10299 11 Vanderbilt 19-4 929 11 12 Utah 19-3 724 16 13 Arkansas 16-5 695 14 14 Purdue 15-5 565 18 15 UNLV 16-3 558 12 16 Seton Hall 18-6 538 19 17 Pittsburgh 15-5 529 17 18 Tulane 17-4 
19 Massachusetts 17-4 20 Iowa 14-6 21 New Orleans 17-2 22 Louisville 14-6 23 Virginia 15-5 24 Marquette 17-4 25 St. John's 14-6 
BriiJham Young 86, Oklahoma Ohto 52, Illinois 47, Memphis 47, u~"•nni'TlAo St. 29, Nebraska 25, Boston College 22, Georgia Tech 20, Michigan St. 17, Minnesota 10, New Mexico 9, Syracuse 9, Southern Methodist 8, George Washington 7, LSU 6, W. Kentucky 6, Miami, Ohio 3 Rice 3, Wisconsin 3, Kansas St. 2, NE ' Louisiana 1, Washington St. 1. 


ST.IDIARD'S 
I I .\ L L I· II ll l \I 
ANGELA BORELLI 
ASSISTANT PROFESSIONAL SPECIALIST 
IRIS OUTLAW 
DIRECTOR, MINORITY AFFAIRS 
ROLAND SMITH 
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT 
SPEAK ON 
"DOES RACISM EXIST AT NOTRE DAME?" 
Tuesday, February 16 7:00P.M. at St. Edward's Hall 



-~ ~ ---~------~-----­
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, February 16, 1993 
Hrudey's 43 saves help snap King's 7 game losing streak 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (API ­Slumping goalie Kelly Hrudey was at his acrobatic best with 43 saves and Jari Kurri trig­gered a three-goal third period Monday as the Los Angeles Kings ended a seven-game winless streak with a 3-0 vic­tory over Vancouver. 
NHL capsules 
The NIIL's sPcond-most pro­ductiVf~ ofl'ense was blanked for the first time since losing con­secutive shutouts in December 1991 at Edmonton and Quebec. It was the second shutout by llrudny this season and the 15th of his career, and it snapped a personal live-game winless streak. 
The Kings had allowed 29 goals in their last three games. 
After Vancouver's Kirk McLean stopped the Kings' first 27 shots. Los Angeles scored all three goals in less than five minutes for its first victory since Jan. 26 against San Jose. 
Kurri snapped the scoreless tie at 4:42 with his z:~rd goal, tying Bryan Trottier for 14th place on the career goal-scoring list at 520. Jimmy Carson and Tony Granato also seored. 
Rangers 4, Blues 1 
Ed Olczyk and Alexei Kovalev scored second-period break­away goals and John Vanbies­brouck made 34 saves. The victory moved the Hangers, 1-5­2 in their previous eight games, a point ahead of the New Jersey Devils into third place in the Patrick Division. The Devils have played three fewer games. 
The Blues, 6-2-2 in their pre­vious 10 games, had won three straight road games and were 6-1-0 in their last seven away from home. 
But St. Louis wasted valuable minutes on the power play during the third period. Only 59 seconds into the final period, Rangers defenseman James Patrick received a five-minute major penalty for high sticking 
Hoops 
Continued from page 20 
players put points on the board. And where the Belles' bench would have come to the rescue, they only contributed two points, eight rebounds and one assist. 
"We weren't mentally into the game. Our bench was low on points," said Wood " and this was the first time we had trou­ble shooting." 
Taubenheim had 18 points while Crowley had the same amount along with two three­

-
a, 



Love, MomandDad 
Craig Janney. 

The Blues managed just one shot during the Qrst 4:01 of the advantage before Doug Cross­man was called for elbowing, evening the sides. 
Sabres 7, Penguins 4 
Pat LaFontaine moved into a 
tie with Mario Lemieux for the 
NHL:s scoring lead with a three­
point game in Buffalo's victory 
over Pittsburgh. 

LaFontaine scored a goal and added two assists to increase his point total to 104, the same as Lemieux, the Penguins' su­perstar currently undergoing treatment for Hodgkin's Dis­ease. 
Alexander Mogilny added to his league goal-scoring lead with his 55th and 56th (empty net) of the season, while the Sabres also got two goals from Wayne Presley and single scores from Grant Ledyard and Yuri Khmylev. Mogilny tied the club record for goals in a sea­son set by Danny Gare in 1979­80. 
Maple Leafs 6, North St~rs 5 
Todd Gill's second goal of the game broke a tie with 40 sec­onds left in the third period as Toronto rallied from a three­goal deficit to beat Minnesota. 
Doug Gilmour, just off a six­assist performance against the North Stars Saturday night in a 6-1 Toronto victory, scored the tying goal and added two assists as the Maple Leafs swept a home-and-home series to move within four points of Minnesota for third place in the Norris Division. 
Mike Modano had two goals and 11n assist for the North Stars, and Mark Osborne scored twice for Toronto. 
The Maple Leafs trailed 5-3 entering the third period, but outshot Minnesota 13-3 and scored three times in the pe­riod. 
pointers. Forward Holmes chipped in with 14 points. 
"Carrol played a great game of basketball. They played like I wished we played,"said Coach Wood. 
Saint Mary's did have nine steals and 12 turnovers but Carrol's turnovers were also low and they had eight steals. But Carrol's balanced attack was most impressive. They had six players in double figures. 
"We've got three games left. We have to step up a level to win those games, and it can be done," said Wood. 
The Belles can still set a new record for winning the most games in a season by winning 
You'll always be our little girl. 
Happy 


Birthday 
Bruins 3, Lightning 3 
Steve Leach scored at 14:22 of 
the third period to help Boston 
tie Tampa Bay. Adam Oates 
recorded his lOOth assist for 
Boston. 

Tampa Bay took its third lead of the game at 3-2 just before the end of the second period on Chris Kontos' 27th goal. 
But Leach flipped a shot past Young, who had just knocked away a wrist shot from Gord Roberts to tie the score. It was Leach's 19th goal. 
Red Wings 5, Blackhawks 3 
Steve Yzerman scored three goals and added two assists Sunday night as the Detroit Red Wings beat Chicago 5-3 to move within three points of the first­place Blackhawks in the Norris Division. 
It was Yzerman's third hat trick of the season and 18th of his carrer. He now has 44 goals. 
Yzerman's 43rd goal, and second of the game, broke a 3-3 tie at 15:39 of the second pe­riod. Standing just outside the crease, the Blackhawks over­loaded with four defenders along the right boards and Yves Racine was able to get a pass off to Yzerman, who poked the puck by Eddie Belfour 
Yzerman gave Detroit a two­goal margin at 15:07 of the final period on a breakaway, nailing a 22-footer from the top of the right faceoff circle. 
Yzerman's five points enabled him to close within six of reach­ing the 1 ,000 point mark. 
After Nicklas Lidstrom scored at 6:12 of the second period, the Blackhakws pulled even at 
11:38 when Brian Noonan de­flected in Chris Chelios' 50-foot slapshot from the right point. 
Yzerman's first goal, his fifth shorthander of the season at 
16:34 of the first period, made it 2-1 Detroit. 
Detroit took a 3-1 lead on Racine's goal at :58 seconds of 
two of their last three games, according to Coach Wood. 
Practice on Monday was short and intense. According to Wheeler, the team needs to talk to each other more on court. 
"We need to acknowledge each other's contributions," she said. 
r·vi·s·io·N·s··o·F···pA·R·i·s··~ 
: Summer Programs , 993 : • lntersession : May 24-June 11 • Summer Session : June 1 4 -July 2 3 
• 
More than 50 regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum. 

• 
A three-week French-language Immersion program, featuring cultural walking tours and conversation classes. 

• 
Weekend excursions : Normandy, Champagne, loire Valley chateaux, Burgundy,Givemy and Chartres. 

• 
Seminar tours with the University of Texas, the University of 


New Hampshire and the University of California at Berkeley. Also, two new French Immersion Sessions: 
I Summer '94 in Biarritz I Winter '94 in Paris
• 

Send for our 1993 Summer Programs Brochure : The American University of Paris Summer Programs I U.S. Office 80 East 11th Street, Suite 434 New York, New York 1 0003 
121677-4870 -Fax 12121475-520 
the second period, but the his 32nd, and Stephane Blackhawks scored twice in the Matteau. span of 33 seconds to tie the The Red Wings are 5-1-2 in score on goals by Steve Larmer, their last eight games. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
lnterhall floor hockey referees are needed. Anyone interested should call the RecSports office at 631-6100. 
Spring break trips to Steamboat, CO are still available for all interested. For more information, call Chris Boone of the ND Ski Club at 273-2958. 
Attention all freshmen: The Student Managers Organization will be having an informational meeting for all who are interested in assisting the athletes of Notre Dame. The meeting will be held on February 16 at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Football Auditorium. If you have questions. please call the Manager's office at 631-6482. 
The men's volleyball team plays Indiana State on February 
17. The match starts at 7:30 and will be played in the JACC Pit. All are encouraged to attend. 
NO Crew will have a general meeting f'or all rowers on February 17 at 7 p.m. in 119 Haggar Hall. Bring checkbooks to pay for spring break. 
NO Crew will hold a meeting for all men interested in joining novice crew on February 18 at 7 p.m. in 199 Haggar Hall. 
lnterhall lacrosse entries are due by February 24 at the RecSports office and there will be a captain's meeting February 25 at 5 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
SportsTalk welcomes Irish track coach Joe Plane tonight at 8 
p.m. on WVFI 640AM. Call in with questions and comments at 631-6400. 
The NO/SMC Equestrian Club will have a meeting February 22 at 7:30 p.m. in 222 Hesburgh Library. If you have questions, call Megan at 634·2784. 
The Jacques Maritian Center presents ... 
The Final Revolution: The Catholic Church and the Collapse of European Communism 

by 

George Weigel 
President, Ethics and Public Policy Center Washington, D.C. 
Room 125 DeBartolo Wednesday, February 17 4:15p.m. John M. Olin Lecture Series 

•
Today

Tuesday, February 16, 1993 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATTERSON 
II M\lST B£ f:.. FALLEII SIRM~GE 11-\t\\ A~G~L! GE~ERA~~ ~Ei \1.\£.\(f 'i'IO\llt) B\JR~ IJ? IN nit. MMO)~t.R£, BE 30 MAI-ii 13\l\ n\15 ONt. f>..I'PI\RB'\Tli IN 'S\lS\t.'S '11\~RIL..ED ON 11-\?ACT, ~Rom ~f>..R~ . ...~..;;~~·­l£.1\\1\~G 1\-\\5 f..I'\Gt.L-S\1AI't.D CRA"IT.R IN T\-\E St\OW .' 
L---------~~-~ ~ 
ACROSS 31 Obligations 65 Disable 36 To be, in Paris 66 Demonstration

1 Within: Prefix 38 Cambodian of validity6 Five-time neighbor 68 Lyric poems Presidential 40 Solar-year 69 Taj Mahal's site 
candidate 
._.. 
excess 10 Relating to 41 Aka Currer Bell sheep 44 Past or present, 11 Hereditary 
e.g. 
factor 45 Submarine 

72 Appear sandwich 73 Concise 46 Type of tide 9 This, in Avila 47 Part of an 
DOWN

Aka Mary overcoat Westmacott 49 Bombay attire 1 Collector on Society-page 51 Kin of aves. Apr. 15 word 52 S Nigerian 2 Calif. wine 
native 
district 54 Halfway house 
3 Math course 4 Played a tape 
56 Aka Boz 
again
64 Exec's car 5 Mountain ridges I-::-:-+--+--+-­6Ten: Comb. 

form ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 -~the Red 8 Use a tub 
WREN SPURS 
9 Type of record 
H E R 0 T E P E E 

player ..:...:..j..::...:..j....:4=+-=-! 10 Mimics 11 32Atop 53 Kind of orange 60 Dreadful~ruttlllil "... -we 33 More rational 55 Temerity 61 Mosque priest 
.-.;..+:=+:o:.,..~ forget!": Kipling ..!..-1-:....j..:..:-1-!=-1 12 Oppositionist 340utward 56 Wooden-soled 62 Roulette bet -=-+:;=+;:.g 13 Dirk of yore 35 Rome's shoe 63 Pearl Buck 
21 Phone-call Spanish-57 Conceal book -=-+=::..j.:..:+==-1 response 37 Gaelic 58 Approval 
67 Charge for 22 Near the center 39 Antitoxins 59 Light pink wine service 25 Factions 42 Even 26 Waters or 43 Acid type Merman 48 Swellings of a 
Get answers to any three clues 
..:,:..j-:;+::::+;:.1 27 Wading bird sort 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·
~=-+-=~ 29 Solemn vow 50 Where to dip a -=...L:..:..L::.-L.=..J 30 Lugs quill 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0105. 

an 
FADED? 
Revive your tan with our 
EUROTAN 
tanning beds 1 0 for $3500 or $500 per single session with student ID 







···-·-···~·······4·····················-············· 

-------~-~--~-~ --­
Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, February 16, 1993 

MARTEN 

By BETH REGAN Sports Writer 
On Top of Sports 

Katie Northup is fired up and ready to 1----------------~ roll. Northup, a Saint Mary's sophomore 
Peterson is running her way into the 
record books 
Notre Dame can boast a large number of stellar athletes, but the most impressive is not too well known. First of all. she is a female athlete and secondly, she is on the track team. 
Erica Peterson is a new addition to the Irish track team and what an addition she has been. She has turned heads in every indoor meet and she is rewriting the record books. The freshman sprinter has four years to run at the collegiate level and then she will most definitely move into the international arena. 
In her first three meets here, Peterson has been more than impressive. At the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Indoor Championships, Peterson ran in five events-four individual races and one relay. The speedy freshman took the title in four of those events, namely. the 55 meter hurdles. the 200 meter dash, 400 meter dash. and the 4 x 440 relay and set new conference records in the 200 and the 400. 
In the three individual events, Peterson finished several meters ahead of her competition while in the relay Peterson ran the anchor leg and came from behind to finish well ahead of the next team. 
Ironically. Peterson as her own team would have placed fourth in the meet. For her performance, she was named Newcomer of the Meet and Athlete of the Meet. 
In her second collegiate competition, the Meyo Invitational, Peterson set a Notre Dame indoor record in the 400 meters en route to another first place finish. Versatile as well as quick, Peterson ran the 800 meter race and took second place last weekend at the Ball State Invitational. 
A member of the Canadian National Track team. Peterson also has some experience running at the international level. At the Junior World Championships in Seoul, Korea in the fall, Peterson won the silver medal in the 400 meter hurdles and contributed to a seventh plar,e 4 x 400 relay team making her first trip to the meet a successful one. 
One of Canada's top young hurdlers, Peterson, tried out for the Barcelona Olympics. She finished first in her heat, but stumbled on a hurdle in the finals. 
This lady is fast. 
The outdoor track season will be starting soon and Peterson will be a runner to watch. She will undoubtedly add to the accolades she has accumulated this winter. 
But, Notre Dame track is just the beginning. After four years here, the runner will be headed to Atlanta. Barring any unforeseen eircumstance, Peterson will be competing against the world's elite in the 1996 Summer Olympics. 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 
IINHL wrap-up see page 18 
IIMajor League Baseball see page 16 
•Kite wins Bob Hope Classic see page 15 

from Holy Cross Hall, returned to swim­ming after a three year hiatus last season and finally feels that she is at her best swimming distances. Katie swims the mile, the 1000 free, the 500 free and the 200 fly. 
Following in her aunt Mary T. Maher's footsteps, Northup began swimming in a summer league at the early age of four. She went on to swim year round for Lakeside Swim Club of Louisville, Kentucky at the age of 10. 
Northup continued swimming competitively for five years with Lakeside, but quit the sport after her freshman year of high school. 
"Teams that I swam for in the past have been very individualistic and very competitive. Saint Mary's has never been that way. The people on the team have 
Belles. drop two games over weekend 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team lost heart, on the road, this ')last Valentine's weekend as they dropped two games to Beloit College and Carrol College. 
These two losses were the Belles' last chance at qualifying for the NCAA tournament. What is usually a given for Saint Mary's remained out of reach all weekend for them. 
"This was not the team I was used to seeing this season," said Coach Marv Wood. 
Beloit's buccaneers 64-48 victory over the Belles on Saturday extended their winning streak to eight. Saint Mary's did much to help them retain that streak. 
The Belles racked up a total of 28 turnovers while the Buccaneers had only 19, and Saint Mary's could not convert those turnovers. 
"It was a matter of sharpness. We did not make good choices, forced some things and it went into their hands," said guard/forward Mollie Wheeler. 
The Buccaneers capitalized off of the Belles' mistakes by having 13 steals. On top of that, Beloit monopolized the charity line by hitting 12 of 17 free throws. Saint Mary's was only five of six chances at the line. 
''I'm not sure what it was. Our enthusiasm was down. "said Wheeler. 
Usually Saint Mary's has a sure thing in Jennie Taubenheim or Kristen Crowley who nail their shots and keep the Belles' chances alive in the second half. The sure thing could not be found at Carroll College. 
Forward Taubenheim made 8 of 20 field goals while guard Crowley found only 5 of 17 shots. Crowley make her signature mark by sinking three treys. 
"Kim Holmes, Crowley and Taubenheim played well for us but most of us were sluggish," said Wood. 
Sluggish ballplay extended to Sunday's game against Carrol, as well. Carrol slammed Saint Mary's, 81-56. 
Except for Wheeler having two points, only three Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's, here playing Grace College, dropped two games
see HOOPS/page 18 
over the weekend to Beloit and Carrol College. 
Men's volleyball sweeps Loyola for victory 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
The Irish men's volleyball team rolled to a 3-0 victory over a decimated Loyola­Chicago team in The Pit last night. It was a match that outside hitter Pat Madden and coach Jen Slosar both agreed was easy because of Loyola mistakes and injuries. 
"Losing your setter in the first game tends to screw up your offense," Madden said. "We knew we were pretty well set 
after that." The Irish won 17-15, 15-7 and 15-5 over a thin. grumpy Loyola squad that often seemed more concerned about the officiating than running their plays. They had several service errors and lost two points to violations in their lineup, and the whole team just never seemed to start playing. Still, the Irish had trouble putting Loyola away in game 1. The old problem of passing haunted the Irish once again, and was accentuated by the absence of 
setter Won Suh, who had a job interview. 
Assistant coach Dan Kavanaugh, who retired as a player in the preseason due to outside commitments. donned a jersey to replace Suh, and the adjustment was difficult in the first game. 
"Dan runs a different kind of offense than Won," said club captain Brian Ceponis. "Won spreads the offense around a little more, while Dan sets it up to the outside most of the time." 
Torn Kovats and Matt Strottman were solid in game 1. but Loyola took advantage of the adjustment problems to force it to 17-15. However, the dream of a Loyola victory ended with the injury to Loyola's setter early in that game. 
Games 2 and 3 were both cakewalks for the Irish, with Kovats and Strottman combining on spikes and aces in game 2 as the Irish ran up a 14-3 lead, winning 15-7 in the end. 
Game 3 saw more liberal substitution by the Irish, as the stress of losing badly began to cost Loyola. Subs Miguel As­cencion and Tim Regan entered about 
Katie Northup 
always supported me and made m; feel like part of a family." commented Northup. 
After quitting, Northup wanted nothing to do with swimming. Like many partici­pants of demanding individualistic sports. Northup experienced burn out. 
"I didn't want to have anything to do with it for a while," said Northup. "I didn't begin to miss it until the end of my senior year." 
midway through the game, and combined for 3 kills and an ace by Hegan as the Irish won 15-5. 
"Our passing could have bnen better in game 1, but after that we started mixing up the oll'ense, which helpnd a lot," said Madden. Ceponis agreed, adding that "A quick. painless victory is niee to have." 
"It was nice to get the subs in," added Slosar. Both Ascenscion and Hegan played well, debunking the myth that the Irish bench is weak. 
Another factor in the Irish win was the vocal crowd. One spirited individual in particular seemed to rattle the Loyola squad. Loyola oftHn looked disgustedly at the small but loud band of Irish supporters, who were into the match from start to finish. 
"We really appreciated the crowd support," said Madden. "It gives The Pit more of a home-court atmosphere and fires us up. We always play better with a loud crowd." 
The Irish take on the tough Sycamores at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday. 
Northup decided to go out for Saint Mary's swim team her freshman year. 
" I had no idea what to expect after leaving the sport for so long. I just wanted to have fun my first year back." 
It was not until this season that Northup decided to get serious. After returning to Louisville last summer she saw many of her old team mates that had swimming scholarships to class A schools. 
"They really inspired me to come back strong." said Northup. 
Northup has been training hard all season. She continued practicing seriously with a club in Louisville over Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks. 
"Katie has dropped significant time off every event she has swum since Christmas break." said Belle's coach Dennis Cooper. 
Northup has come close to breaking the mile, 1000, and 500 freestyle record at Saint Mary's College. She'll have another opportunity to do this next weekend at the Liberal Arts Invitational. 
The Observers 1Jake Peters 





