-------~----------~~-----------------~-~---------~-------------~~­
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 105 THURSDAY, MARCH 4, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Canzoniero and Macy win Run-off names class officers 
By NANCY DUNN 

co-chairs in HPC elections 
News Writer 

By BEVIN KOVALIK HPC consists of a special 
Wednesday's run-off elections 

News Writer group of leaders who have the 
resulted in a decisive winner

representation and power to do 
for the class of 1995 but only a

The Hall Presidents' Council great things at Notre Dame, 
slim margin of victory for the

{IIPC) elected new co-chairper­said Macy. "We hope to use our 
class of 1996. 

sons for the 1993-94 term voice to positively represent the 
The Bryan Corbett ticket

Tuesday, according to Jason student body and to promote 
(65.1%) defeated the Ira Wade

Coyle, HPC co-chair. school unity among the dorms." 
ticket {34. 9%) in the class of

Howard Hall President Jackie "I think HPC can be a very 
1995 election. Corbett's ticket

Macy and Alumni Hall Presi­powerful force in the school," 
also won majorities in 19 out of

dent Chris Canzoniero ran Canzoniero said. "We really 
the 25 dorms. In the class of

unopposed and won by a appreciate all Jason and Mari­
1996 race, the Michaela

unanimous decision, said Coyle. anne have done during their 
Kendall ticket (51.31%) edged

Effective immediately follow­term." 
out the Tim Glenister ticket

ing spring break, Macy and The new HPC officers will of­
(48.69%) by 27 votes. The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado Sophomore Class 

Canzoniero will replace seniors ficially convene at the next HPC 
"We are really excited that

Coyle and Marianne Ravry as meeting March 16. According to supporters is campaign, and we are
the class showed that much

HPC co-chairs. Macy, applications will be taken "ready to start planning some for next year," Kendall said. 
support for us and for our

"I think Chris and Jackie will for the positions of executive fun for the class of 1995." "This year's elections went
ideas," said newly elected Pres­

do a great job serving the stu­coordinator and secretary after The winning ticket for the very well and were very un­
ident Bryan Corbett. Corbett

dent body." Coyle said. "They the break. class of 1996 consists of Presi­eventful," said Andrea Sullivan, 
also thanked his running mates

hope to build on what HPC has In other business, Students dent Kendall, Vice President election committee co-presi­
Vice President Colleen Camp­

already done this year such as For Environmental Action (SEA) Sara Ford, Secretary Lauren dent. Pete Castelli, judicial
bell, Secretary Nick Galassi,

funding various speakers and will sponsor a campus-wide Aimonette, and Treasurer Marc counsel president, agreed and
and Treasurer Joe Bergan be­

sponsoring the service project competition to conserve McDonald. added, "I am happy that the 
cause "without them victory

to make HPC a more service­electricity during the month of "We would like to thank ev­candidates participated with
would not have been possible."

oriented body." eryone who worked on our such vigor." 
see HPC I page 4 Campbell also thanked their 



The Observer/ John Thorn 


California dreaming 
Dreaming of spring vacation, Grace Hall junior James Bukow studies under the Anthony Travel sign in LaFortune Student Center yesterday. During midterms students have all been anticipating spring break. 
GSU names candidates; discusses mail-in ballot 
By BRIAN POSNANSKI of committees and the process­News Writer ing of grants for traveling. She also stressed the quality of life 
The Graduate Student Union issues such as child care. (GSU) announced its candidates There were no nominees for for president Wednesday night vice president. "In the absence at its g~neral meeting in the of candidates it will be taken Foster Room of LaFortune Stu­care of by the council," said dent Center. Ulick Stafford, chair of the GSU 
Rita Francis, a graduate stu­Elections, Credentials and Pro­dent in the department of bio­cedures Committee (ECP). chemistry, and Ed Wingenbach, Current President Mike Kelly a student in the government proposed that students be al­department, entered their lowed to write in candidates on names into the race for the ballots, but his motion was president. denied. 
Wingenbach said that grad­The announcement of the two uate students' problems are candidates follows recent re­poorly represented to the uni­form in the GSU election pro­versity. "I'm sort of fed up with cess. Instead of running on a graduate students' interests double ticket as they did in the going along with the adminis­past, the positions of president tration's," he said. "Nothing and vice president are now ever gets resolved." elected separately. 
The University needs to give Stafford said he hopes to more attention to social issues, increase voter participation by such as the proposal for a attaching a mail-in ballot to the women's resource center, ac­next graduate student cording to Wingenbach. newsletter. 
Francis said she would like to Elections will occur on March see changes in the structuring 18. 
Schlager: CSCE fills vital world role 

By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Assistant News Editor 
Tricia Wallace, Isabel Wagner, Anne Homan, Hedi Fuhr and Shelly Gagen won yesterday's Residence Hall Association {RHA) elections for president, vice president, treasurer and secretary and National Communications Coordinator, respectively. 
All candidates with the ex­ception of president ran unop­posed with approximately 21 percent of on-campus students voting, according to 1992-93 RHA President Karen Fordham. 
Wallace received 69.6 percent of the vote for president, Beth Goodwin 28 percent of the vote and 2.4 percent of those voting abstained. 
Wagner earned 91.9 percent of the vote for vice president, 
RHA offices determined in Saint Mary's election 

By MARY MURPHY 
News Writer 
The Commission for Security and Cooperation in Europe (C.S.C.E.) is an international governmental human rights or­ganization and a vital force in today's political arena accord­ing to Erika Schlager, U.S. del­egate to diplomatic democracy to C.S.C.E.. 
The C.S.C.E., also known as the Helsinki Process, is a cold war product created in 1954 to legitimize post war division in Europe, said Schlager. Its membership includes the countries most vulnerable to destabilization. 
In his lecture titled "The Helsinki Process and the Future of Human Rights in Europe" Schlager said, "It [C.S.C.E.] is organized as an ongoing process which provides the best potential framework." 
The C.S.C.E. took two 

with 8.1 percent of those voting abstaining. Homan received 93.1 percent of the vote for treasurer, with 
6.9 percent abstaining. 
Fuhr earned 91.1 percent of the vote for secretary, with 8.9 abstained. 
Gagen received 81.9 percent of the vote for National Com­munications Coordinator, with 
18.1 percent abstaining. 
The four candidates who won president, vice president, trea­surer and secretary cam­paigned together as a ticket. 
"We want to let people know about RHA and what it does," said Wallace. "The parietals changes are just one thing RHA can do. They have a lot of power, we just have to work with residents to let them know about RHA and what it can do." 
see AHA I page 4 

decades to form a conference due to opposition by Western countries because the U. S. and the Federal Republic of Ger­many feared the commission would divide NATO and West­ern and Eastern Germany. Ironically, the C.S.C.E. has cre­ated unity rather than division, Schlager said. 
The founding of the confer­ence was also slowed down be­cause some western countries saw contradictions between the conference's concentration on security concerns and human rights. 
The first meeting was held in 197 5 in Helsinki, Finland and included 35 leaders from Eu­rope, North America and the Soviet Union. These leaders fo­cused on subjects ranging from military security, to the envi­ronment, to human rights, Schlager said. 
The Helsinki meeting was a rallying point for the oppressed of Europe and paved the way for the release of political pris­oners, free and fair elections, the unification of Germany and free flow of information across borders, according to Schlager. 
"The unification of Germany symbolized the unification of the entire continent," Schlager said. 
The C.S.C.E. met for a second time in 1990 to acknowledge pivotal events which they had catalyzed. Leaders recounted the relatively bloodless revolu­tions and lack of return to communist totalitarianism. 
It was a "welcoming of the new Europe and a rejecting of the old," Schlager said. 
A second purpose of the 1990 meeting was to recommend new regulations for the confer­ence. Due to evolving needs in post Cold War Europe, the 
C.S.C.E. added standing offices in Prague, Vienna, and Warsaw. 
see SCHLAGER/ page 4 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Look back at your past with an 
eye on your future 
"Where I was born and where and how I have lived is unimportant. It is what I have done with where I have been that should be of interest. "-Georgia O'Keeffe John Rock 
These words from Managing Editor Georgia ()'Keeffe may not seem all that relevant to ________ a generation that is just coming of age. The undergrads of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's aren't really all that far along that vivacious continuum of time between our births and imminent deaths often called "life." 
Ever gHt to wondering what it's all about? By the timtJ we graduate, most of us will have spent at least 20 percent of our lives in South Bend. Of the rHst, another 20 percent was spent dinking around during high school. The remaining 60 percent, we probably don't remembflr that much, unless some childhood memories are jarred free by Bill Rosemann in "Sucking the Marrow of Life." 
According to O'Keeffe, the standard by which she wished to measured was what she did with her life. That question faces us as what are we going to do with our lives. 
Many seniors have been slapped in the face by this question, but it's one we've asked many times before. How many of us wanted to be a firefighter back in the first grade? 
Reeoneiliation with the question of what we want to do with our lives is only partially made with the selection of an occupation. Who we are and who we are going to be are other big questions that confront us in college. Being at a Catholic eollege presents us with guidance, but also with problems in this formation of our personhood. 
The omnipresent "they" say that "you learn something new every day." I will not dispute that, but only conclude that our formation o personhood will never reach completion. 
Thfl meaning of life is not hidden in this column. It may or may not be found in the movie "City Slickers," when the cowboy holds a finger in the air while explaining the meaning o life to Billy Crystal. It may or may not be found in the tomes of philosophical discourse absorbed and chewed on daily. 
Kierkegaard suggests that "Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards." This sounds obvious enough, but in the normal course of human life, the only thing we learn from the past is that we don't learn from it. 
O'Keeffe may have undervalued the im­portance of the past on our lives, but is correct in asserting that the past is not what we should be judged for, or by. It is what we are doing now and what we plan to do in the future; hopefully using the things we have learned in the past 20 percent. Chances are good that most of what we apply is stuff we learned but not from a text or lecture, but from the experiences we encountered. 
As we journey together forward towards the day our last glimpse of the Dome is in the rear­view mirror, we should start this process o understanding life through looking backward and forwarding what we have learned to the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News  Viewpoint  
Alicia Reale  Lynn Bauwens  
Bevin Kovalik  
Jason Williams  Accent  
Kenya Johnson  
Production  Lynn Bauwens  
Susan Marx  
Whitney Sheets  Graphics  
Ann-Marie Conrado  
Sports  
Jason Kelly  Systems  
Matt Carbone  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
L 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Socialists' cultural policies assailed 
•PARIS -Graffiti on display at museums. State­subsidized rap music. Condoms dispensed at high schools. In his 12 years in office, Culture Minister Jack Lang has redefined French culture, flouting tradition and mixing high brow with low. He has financed fashion and haute cuisine, cinema and rock 'n' roll, symphony and the circus. French conservatives will be doing their best to undo his legacy after the legislative elections this month, which they seem assured of winning. Conservatives believe Lang has trivialized culture and pandered to the lowest common denominator. Plagued by numerous scandals and high unemployment, the Socialists' support has fallen to about 20 percent of the population, according to polls leading up to the March 21legislative elections. 


NATIONAL 

UAW threatens to strike Kansas plant 
•DETROIT -The United Auto Workers union has warned Ford Motor Co. it may go on strike at a plant in Kansas City that builds some of the automaker's best­selling trucks. The strike notice means that unless its grievances are settled by midnight Saturday, the union could call a walkout of the 4,000 workers. The strike threat is the first at a Ford plant since 1986, UAW spokesman Karl Mantyla said Tuesday. The plant builds the Ford Tempo-Mercury Topaz and F-series pickup trucks. The union said there are more than 80 grievances, chief among them Ford's plan to eliminate 55 jobs by sending seat-cushion work to an outside supplier. Ford spokesman Bert Serre said that issue is not basis for a legal strike. Separately, a strike by 2,100 workers at a Ford assembly plant in northern Mexico continued for a second day Tuesday in a dispute over wages. The workers earn about $2 an hour. 
Bags of mar~uana wash ashore 
MARKET UPDATE 



YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 3 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 272,327,913 +0.87 to 247.41 S&P COMPOSITE 

+1.36 to 449.26 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+3.51 to 3,404.04
UNCHANGED 581 

GOLD 

-$0.80 to $329.70 /oz 
SILVER 

-$0.07 to $3.556/oz 
Thursday, March 4, 1993 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cold Thursday with an 80 percent chance of rain and highs in the lower 30s. Cloudy Friday with an 80 percent chance of snow and high in the mid 30s. 


TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 35 14 
.. 
Atlanta 46 35 
·=· 
Bogota 56 37 Cairo 55
',,·: 79 
Chicago 44 34 ::· :: Cleveland 48 39 ·.·;: Dallas 60 42 Detroit 48 36/ Indianapolis 41 38

.;.: 
::· Jerusalem 64 50 : London 39 37'. ... Los Angeles 68 53 Madrid 55 30 Minneapolis 14 05 Moscow 23 16 Nashville 49 47 New York 50 38 Paris 43 34
::/:]: Philadelphia 54 39 Rome 55 43 :;:~ .:~ Seattle 57 43 South Bend 34 28 Tokyo 52 37 Washington, D.C. 61 42 


vacuum-packed bags of marijuana that began washing ashore last week. Since Feb. 23 authorities have found more than 140 pounds on the beach, and they seized 20 pounds more from a man who apparently got there first. "It's awfully hard telling where this came from," Police Chief Kevin Clayton said Tuesday. He said investigators aren't even sure in which direction the marijuana was heading -out of or toward Alaska. The state has a significant marijuana crop. Police in Cordova were tipped off to the illegal flotsam by a caller who said a man in town had come upon a large quantity of marijuana and was trying to sell it. The police chief put the street value of the marijuana at about $780,000. He said nearly all of the bags were still watertight. "I sure would like to know what kind of vacuum sealer they used. I could save myself a lot of fish with one of those," he said. 


CAMPUS 
Faccenda receives excellence award 

•NOTRE DAME-Philip Faccenda, assistant vice president and general counsel of the University of Notre Dame, has received the 1993 Award for Excellence in Legal Practice from St. Ignatius College Prep, Chicago's oldest preparatory school. Faccenda, a 1947 St. Ignatius graduate, accepted the award at a luneheon February 26, at Chicago's Midland Hotel. St. Ignatius was the forerunner to Chicago's Loyola University, from which Faccenda received his law degree. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1951 with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering. Faccenda became Notre Dame's general counsel in 1970 and also has served as a University trustee and vice president for student affairs. A former president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, he joined the University administration as a special assistant to the president in 1967, during the changeover to lay governance. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: The Constitution of the United States went into effect as the first Federal Congress met in New York. 

• 
In 1837: The Illinois state legislature granted a city charter to Chicago. 

• 
In 1917: Republican Jeannette Rankin of Montana took her seat as a member of Congress, the first woman to be elected to the House of Representatives. 

• 
In 1933: President F.D.R. pledged effective leadership to pull the U.S. out of the Great Depression, saying, "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." 

• 
In 1952: Actor Ronald Reagan and actress Nancy Davis were married in San Fernando Valley, Calif. 

• 
In 1992: Another round of Middle East peace negotiations concluded with Israel rejecting a plan for Palestinian elections on the West Bank, Gaza and in East Jerusalem. 


Thursday, March 4, 1993 


Professors named to fore\gn programs 
Special to The Observer 
Alain Toumayan, associate professor of romance languages and literatures at Notre Dame, has been named director of the University's Angers Program in France, and Cathleen Cowhey, a Saint Mary's alumna, has been named the new director of the University's Innsbruck Program, according to Isabel Charles, associate provost and director of International Study Programs. 
The appointments last two years beginning in the Fall 1993 semester. The Angers Program was founded in 1966 as part of the Centre International D'Etude Francaises (CIDEF) at the cam­pus of L'Universite Catholique de L'Ouest (CATHO). During the current academic year 31 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are enrolled in the Angers Program. 
Toumayan received his un­dergraduate education at the University of Pennsylvania and his doctorate from Yale Univer­sity in 1982. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1989 following appointments at Johns Hopkins and Princeton Universities. 
A specialist in nineteenth and twentieth century French liter­atures, Toumayan has authored one book, "La Litterature at La Hantise du Mal," edited a volume of essays, and produced critical articles for journals such as The Romantic Review and Romance Quarterly. 
Also an effective teacher and lecturer, Toumayan will succeed Father Gerald Carroll of Longford, Ireland, who has di­rected the program since 1990. 
Cowhey is a former student in the Innsbruck Program who received a master's degree in theater and medieval history from Ludwig-Maximilians-Uni­versitat in Munich, where she is now completing doctoral studies. She also holds an ap­pointment as a visiting faculty member in Notre Dame's de­partment of German and Rus­sian languages and literatures. 

The Observer 
ACCENT DEPARTMENT 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Literary Critic Movie Critic Music Critic Weekly Columnist 
lease submit a one-page statement of intent, resume, and a writing sample (does not have to be published) to Kenya Johnson by 9 p.m., Thursday, March 4, 1993. For more information about any of the positions call Kenya at 631-4540. 
The Observer 


Musical melodies 

Janet Hilton, a guest artist at the presentation "Master Class," sponsored by the department of music yesterday, coaches a student from Western Michigan University as he plays the clarinet. 
Hand grenade explodes outside of U.S. embassy 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -A hand grenade thrown from a car exploded ~utside the U.S. Embassy on Wednesday, shattering windows but causing no injuries, a police officer said. 
The grenade exploded on the sidewalk, said the officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The blast at 10:30 
p.m. (4:30 p.m. EST) also dam­aged the brass plates on the embassy's door. Most of the embassy employees had gone home for the night. 
Gates Toyota 
20% off to all students and faculty when servicing your Toyota a( Gates Toyota Service Department. 
Shuttle Bus available to Notre Dame and University Park Mall. 
Oil Changes for just $20.55 
"/love whatyou dofor me." 
®TOYOTA 


There was no immediate claim of responsibility. 
Anti-American feelings are running high in Yugoslavia. Belgrade TV, controlled by hard-line Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, regularly denounces the United States for allegedly favoring Muslims over Serbs in the fighting in neighboring Bosnia-Herzegov­ina. 
In the past year, weapons of all types have become available in Belgrade, brought by soldiers returning from Bosnia and Croatia. Violent crime has soared and small explosions are a nightly occurrence. 
But this was the first time in recent memory the U.S. Em­bassy had been attacked. 
Serbs have also criticized the 
U.S. airdrop of relief supplies this week to Muslims in eastern Bosnia who have been besieged by Serb rebels. 
Police in Zagreb, capital of the former Yugoslav republic of Croatia, defused a bomb left in a briefcase Friday outside the 
U.S. Embassy to Croatia. 
page 3 
coverage for married students. 
German Echecopar, head of the subcommittee, will propsoe a GSU approved referendum to University officials. "We're looking to find a better way for families to be insured," he said. 
GSU's plan involves lowering the cost of coverage as well as expanding coverage for spouses and children. Presently, health insurance coverage for spouses and chil­dren is too expensive for most graduate students, Echecopar said. 
While coverage for a single student is $300, covering a family is much more expensive, according to Echecopar. 
"Three years ago a family of four was insured with $1,392," he said. "Last year it was ex­actly $3000." The average graduate student stipend is $8000. 
The referendum has under­gone changes. The original plan was to increase health in­surance premiums for all graduate students. Projected increase of the premium is between $50 and $200. 
Echecopar said that this plan was changed for two reasons. He cited first the potential fric­tion between married and un­married students. The other problem is that if students themselves subsidize insurance coverage, the University might perceive itself as having no re­sponsibility in the matter. 
"Many people feel the uni­versity should address this is­sue, not the students," said Echecopar. "We think it should be the University who takes care of it." 

Drinking and driving don't mix. Especially during the holidays. 

APPL ICRTIONS ARE RUR ILRBLE IN THE S.U.B. OFFICE IN KERRY MCARDLE•s MR ILBOH. THEY ARE DUE FRIDR'I MRRCH 5. THOSE SELECTED WILL BE NOTIFIED AFTER SPRING BREAK. 
THANK YOU FOR YOUR INTEREST!!
• 

r-------------~--------------------~-­
Thursday, March 4, 1993

page 4 
LAPD policy violated in Rodney King beating 
LOS ANGELES (AP}-Three policemen broke Police De­partment policy by kicking or beating Hodney King after he had fallen, a police official testi­fied Wednesday in the officers' federal trial. 
Sgt. Mark Conta, head of physical training and self-de­fense at the Los Angeles Police Academy, said OfTicer Laurence Powell should have stopped beating King after his baton blows knocked King to the ground. 
"An offieer should use only the force that is reasonable and necessary to overcome a sus-
RHA 
continued from page 1 
Wallace said their goals for the upcoming year include the following improvements within the residence halls: 
•More hall sponsored events. 
•An 
increase in events incor­porating the entire campus. 

•A 
floor in each residence hall designated as a senior liv­ing area requiring all students living there to be 21 years old by a specified date. 

•A 
campus-wide card access system that would give stu­dents access to all halls with one card. 


Homan said she looks for­ward to working with residents next year. "I like living on campus and I want people to stay on campus," said Homan. "By getting involved with RHA I can help improve things so that more people want to stay on campus." 
The Observer 

Schlager 
continued from page 1 

Despite the success of the C.S.C.E., it has faced obstacles in negotiation processes due to the post Cold War breakdown of traditional alliances. An in­formal network evolved, yet this was not enough, Schlager said. 
"The disintegration of the Warsaw Pact removed a critical point of definition for these countries," she said. It also gave "European Community and NATO countries less com­mon ground to stand on." 
This obstacle is compounded by the expanding membership of the C.S.C.E.. It has grown from 35 members to 53 be­cause of the recognition of Baltic states and the deunifica­tion of the Soviet Union. 
"The C.S.C.E. includes every country in Europe except Macedonia," Schlager elabo­rated. 
The C.S.C.E. has become less effective in human rights and the evolution of traditional hu­man rights issues, she said. Schlager defines traditional 

HPC 
continued from page 1 
March, said George Smith, SEA co-president. 
In observance of energy con­servation month, Smith hopes the competition will motivate students to save electricity in their dorms. According to Smith, the power plant will take the readings of kilowatt usage for each dorm through the month to determine the winner. Smith said the prize has yet to be announced. 
"The purpose of the contest is to reduce energy consumption on campus, and to foster awareness which will help to promote good habits for the future when students are living in their own apartments," he said. 
• at Edison Lakes 
Rocl<s 
0 
10 March 
Friday, March 5­
Disciples (former members of Aoyd the Barber) Saturday, March 6-­
South Side Denny 
Fri. & Sat., March 12, 13­
House Mary's 
Fri. &S!!t., March 19,20--­

Oliver Syndrome 
Friday, March 26­
Punch Judy 
Saturday, March 21­

Freddy Jones 
211 E. Day Road, Mishawaka 259..6000 
The Observer/ John Thorn Erika Schlager lectures yesterday on "The Helsinki Process and the Future of Human Rights in Europe" at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Schlager is a member of the Commission for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
human rights issues as prob­lems including political prison­ers, and prisoners of con­science. 
The C.S.C.E. is perilously close to a "conspiracy of si­lence," Schlager said. Since they do not have the answers to current human rights issues, they have remained silent. "If it is to help, the C.S.C.E. must find its voice... and flesh out the parameters of these issues, " Schlager asserted. 

This speech was sponsored by the Joan Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 






IJil 


Thursday, March 3, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Ferry accident in Congq; death toll may top 200 
BRAZZAV1LLE, Congo(AP)-­Dozens of victims who drowned in a rush to board a river ferry were buried in mass graves Wednesday. Unconfirmed reports said the death toll may top 200. most of them Zairians ordered expelled by Congo. 
Congo. which has set a Fri­day deadline for illegal immi­grants to leave the country, re­ported 147 people died in the Sunday accident. That would make it one of the world's deadliest river ferry disasters in years. 
But a diplomat who visited Brazzaville's main morgue quoted a police officer as saying there were at least 219 victims. Zairian human rights leader Jose Djomoni Demoti 
ROME (AP) -The latest highfliers implicated in a spreading scandal are Italy's cement king, a financier who challenged for the America's Cup, a top Fiat executive, and the brother of a former premier. And that is only in the past few weeks. 
With the Milan judges' inves­tigations sending tremors down the corridors of power, the government this week rushed to limit the damage before the scandals end "in a cemetery of closed factories and hungry people," in the words of Justice Minister Giovanni Conso. 
Conso has recommended that those who confess their guilt and give back the money be permitted to avoid jail or get reduced sentences. The country cannot endure years of drawn-put the deathtoll at 222. Congolese officials an­nounced late Tuesday they were opening an investigation. The death toll reports could not be verltied. · 
Victims of the accident were illegal Zairian immigr{l.riJs trying to take the ferry across the Congo River to Zaire's capital, Kinshasa, in advance of the Friday deadline. 
More.than 3,QOO .. Zairi{l.ns had crowded the port to board the 200-passenger ferry when a gangway ¢ollapsed ~rid scores of people fell into the river, p9lice said. 
Witnesses and Congo state television a'Ccused the captain of the ferry of pulling away from the dock when his boat was rushed. 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment joined warring Serbs and Croats in accepting a future cease-fire and military with­drawal, taking an important step Wednesday toward peace in the war-torn land. 
The decision is the biggest breakthrough in the faltering Yugoslav peace talks since they moved to New York from Geneva last month. 
Bosnian Croats and Serbs signed the agreement in Jan­uary. It is part of an overall peace plan offered by mediators Cyrus Vance and Lord Owen to halt more than a year of ethnic fighting. 
But before the cease-fire and withdrawal can take place, the warring parties must agree to the other points of the peace plan: a proposed division of Bosnia into 10 provinces, and 

Italy's elite running from spreading scandal 
out investigations that cast doubt and suspicion on its industry and institutions, Conso said. 
Some see this as a whitewash. 
"The attempt to seek a politi­cal solution for the guilty would represent the latest outrage to the conscience and the exces­sive patience of the Italian peo­ple," said Umberto Bossi, leader of the upstart Northern League, the party expected to gain the most from the scandals. 
In a country accustomed to scandal, the size and scope of the current one has boggled the mind: Hundreds of millions of dollars kicked back to political parties in exchange for public works contracts, disaster relief stolen or squandered. Nearly 900 people arrested. 
Bosnian Muslims sign agreement 
Italians also have been daz­zled by the audacity of Milan judges relentlessly pursuing the country's political and economic elite. 
The judges have forced the resignations of two party lead­ers and three Cabinet ministers. In just the past few weeks they ordered the brief house arrest of Giampero Pesanti, one of the largest cement manufacturers in Europe. Other arrests included Francesco Paolo Mat­tioli, the No. 3 man at auto giant Fiat. 
Raul Gardini, the financier who sponsored Italy's challenge for the America's Cup, was advised that he was under investigation in the sale of a chemical company to a state­controlled energy group. 


arrangements on an interim government and the country's constitutional principles. The three sides have been at odds over the proposed map. 
"This brings us one step closer to a political agreement on which a meaningful cease-fire and cessation of hostilities can be based. The missing piece, of course, is agreement on the map," U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard told reporters. 
The agreement signed Wednesday calls for a cease­fire, control of heavy weapons, the rebuilding of infrastructure such as power plants and rail stations and the separation of forces and monitoring of bor­ders. 
Bosnian Foreign Minister Haris Silajdzic said his gov­ernment decided to sign the agreement after receiving as­surances that heavy weapons would be placed under U.N. control, one of the Muslim gov­ernment's main concerns. The Bosnian Muslims had feared Serbs would cheat on the agreement and retain their heavy fire power. 
After meeting with Vance and Owen for nearly four hours, Silajdzic announced his government had signed the pact because "considerable U.N. forces could be deployed in Bosnia for purposes of the agreement and to control heavy weapons." 
The 15-nation Security Council planned to meet later Wednesday to adopt a statement demanding "immediate action to protect the lives and well-being of the inhabitants of eastern Bosnia," where Serbs are attacking Mus­lims. 

Warring Afghan leaders agree to share power 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP)­The leaders of Afghanistan's two main factions reportedly agreed Wednesday to share power in their shattered home­land for 18 months, then hold elections. 
Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani and his rival, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, met for the first time since the Communist governmet fell last April. 
Since then, they have battled for control of their homeland. In a struggle for the capital alone, rebel chiefs have rained thousands of rockets on Kabul, killing an estimated 5,000 peo­ple, wounding countless more and flattening entire neighbor­hoods. 
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan called the chiefs of Afghanistan's factions to Is­lamabad on Monday to try to mediate an end to their bitter feuding. 
Pakistan delivered billions of dollars in military assistance ­much of it from the United States -to the groups when they were fighting the Soviet­backed government in Kabul. 
In announcing the power­sharing agreement, Sharif said "all sides have shown flexibil­ity" in the talks. 
Rabbani, who had been scheduled to return to Kabul on Wednesday, extended his visit another day in hopes the agreement can be signed by all factions before he leaves, said the president's spokesman, Mohammed Aziz Murad. 
Murad said that under the power-sharing agreement, Rabbani would remain as pres­ident and Hekmatyar would serve as prime minister. 
The agreement still must be ratified by leaders of all 10 Muslim groups that ousted the Communists after a 14-year civil war. 
Hekmatyar, who is believed to have influence over the smaller factions, was not immediately available for comment. 


Developer of oral polio vaccine dies 
WASHINGTON (API -Health pioneer Albert Sabin. the im­migrant whose oral vaccine helped to all but eliminate the seourge of crippling polio in the industrialized world. died Wedrwsday. lie was H6. 
"llis accomplishments in the area of poliomy1~1itis are mon­umental because the vaccine that he developed was one that could be given so easily to so many people." said Dr. William Schubert, president of Chil­dren's Hospital Medical Centlw in Cincinnati whern Sabin worked for 30 years. 
"lie enriclwd my life, and I think he enriched the lives of many people," said lleloisa Sabin. his wife of 20 ymtrs. 
The Sabin live-virus vaccine went into widespread usn in the United States in 1962 after 
Nuts may sharply lower cholesterol 
BOSTON (APl -Could the next health craze be, quite litnrally, nuts? A new study coneludes that they lower dwlesterol. 
.lust how is a matter of dis­pute. But researchers have assembled two diffenmt lines of evidence suggesting that nuts in general, and walnuts in particular, are good for the heart. 
"Including walnuts in the everyday diet may be an easy way to lower the risk of heart disease by improving the cholesterol profile," said Dr. .Joan Sabate of Lorna Linda University. who directed the latest study. 
The study, funded by the California Walnut Commission. was published in Thursday's New England .Journal of Medicine. 
The story began with a study of 31,20H Seventh-day Adventists. who generally avoid smoking and drinking. Hesearchers questioned them about their consumption of 65 diiTerent foods. 
Those who ate nuts at least five times a week had only half the risk of fatal heart attacks as thos11 who had nuts less than once a week. 
That discovery was published last summer in the Archives of Internal Medicine, along with a skeptical editorial by Dr. William Castelli, director of the landmark Framingham Heart Study. 
"Has the magic bullet ar­rived?" Castelli wrote. "Is it the humble nut?" 
Sundays" organized by doctors 

and health departments. 

The medical world remem­
bered Sabin with admiration. 
Salk called Sabin's death "a 
great loss.... His contributions 
toward the control of polio will 
endure long in the future." 

"One of the great pioneers of
~~......... 

medical research in our cen­
Albert Sabin tury," said lliroshi Nakajima, mass trials in 1958-59 in the director general of the World Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Health Organization, which Mexico and Singapore. predicts that polio will be eradi­
Because it was dispensed on a cated worldwide by the year sugar cube, it rapidly replaced 2000. an injected killed-virus vaccine "A genius who devoted his life developed seven years earlier to his fellow man ... an in­by Jonas Salk. Not only was it ternational scientific giant," easier to take and adn;tinister. it said Dr. James Edwards, pres­provided longer protection. ident of the Medical University 
Between 1962 and 1964. 100 of South Carolina where Sabin million Americans swallowed was a research professor for the cube, many on "Sabin eight years. 
Gene for Lou Gehrig's disease is discovered 
NEW YOHK (AP} -Scientists 
have identified a gene that ap­
parently causes Lou Gehrig's 
disease, a breakthrough that 
suggests existing drugs might 
treat the illness. 
The finding also furthers the idea that scientists may one day be able to slow the rate of nor­mal aging, a federal health of­ficial said. 
"I think it's the biggest dis­covery so far" in research into Lou Gehrig's disease, said Lynn Klein, vice president of patient services for The ALS Associa­tion, which helped pay for the study. 
"We've been saying for a long time that there is light at the end of the tunnel. This is a big beacon." 
ALS stands for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which became known as Lou Gehrig's disease for the New York Yankees star who died of the illness in 1941. 
The progressively paralyzing disease affects an estimated 
30.000 Americans at any given time, according to the associa­tion. 
Faulty genes are blamed for only about 5 percent to 10 per­cent of cases. The cause of far more common sporadic cases is unknown. 
But the new discovery's im­plications also may apply to sporadic cases, since genetic and sporadic ALS produce identical symptoms and pro­gression. researchers said. 
The gene normally helps the body destroy toxic substances called free radicals. If it is de­fective, it may lead to an exces­sive buildup of free radicals that then damages tissue, re­searchers said. 
If that causes ALS, drugs that destroy free radicals may be 

MARK FRANCIS HEXAMER 
able to slow or halt the disor­der. researchers said. 
Such "antioxidant" drugs are already being tested for other diseases. 
"It raises the possibility that antioxidant therapies may be beneficial, but clearly more in­vestigation is going to be re­quired," said Dr. Robert Brown, senior author of the new report and associate professor of neurology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. 
Some vitamins are antioxi­dants, but Brown said he would not advise them as an ALS treatment. 
"Nobody should do anything without talking to a physician," said Robert Horvitz, a Howard Hughes Medical Institute inves­tigator at the Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology in Boston and another senior author. 
It is not clear yet whether antioxident therapy would help and it might even do harm, he said. 
Dr. Stanley Appel, director of the Muscular Dystrophy Asso­ciation ALS Hesearch Center at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, called the work "an extremely interesting paper and hopefully very important." 

The Observer/ T.J. Harris 

Hitting the beach 
With their bags already packed, two Dillon Hall juniors leave for spring break early. 

Happy 20llLBirthday Heather Arnold! 
Love,· Kate, Ana, Chrissy, Suzy, Katy & Erica 
(We wanted to be in Thr> Obsl'rvn; too!) 
Attention Seniors Now, ''The Alternative'' 
The Ad-Hoc Committee on the Quality ofLife announces 
The 3rd Annual 

Senior Informal 
at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Friday, Aprill6, 1993 7 p.m. to Midnight • Full, Sit-Down Wedding Banquet • 2 Great Bands 
•A Most Friendly Crowd Be There! 
Further Details and Ticket Locations After the Break 
~-------~~---~-----------------------------~ 
------~----------, 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, March 4, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Van! Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor......._.....•......•• David Kinney Advertising Manager ..._... Colleen Evale Viewpoint Editor..•........•......Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor --··------··Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager.............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in·Chief 631·4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631·4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631·6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631·8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Holocaust greater evil than abortion 
Dear Editor: 
In his article "Abortion Can­not Be Worse Than The Holo­caust" (The Observer, Feb. 26), Father Robert Griffin tried to address some very issues that have come out of the tensions produced by the abortion de­bate. While I appreciate the sincerity of his effort to find a way out of the terrible rancor this debate continues to engen­der. it seems to me that some response must be made. 
Father Griffin chides the Catholic bishop who compared abortion to the Nazi holocaust, but also apologizes for him: "He is right too, according to his own lights." But no defense should be offered for so heinous a comparison. 
Individual decisions to termi­nate pregnancies, which are often made by women in des­perate circumstances, have nothing in common with the organized slaughter of millions of full-grown adults and chil­dren. Whatever personal posi­tion we may take on the very personal issue of abortion, surely we must see this differ­ence. Not to would be a very dangerous self-delusion. 
This is just not the kind of principle which should even need spelling out: systematic genocide of whole populations is the most horrendous evil of which human beings are ca­pable, and any bishop who compares that horror to a pro­cess of very difficult personal choices made by individual parents, should not be a bishop. 
For that reason I have to criticize Father Griffin as well for comparing memories of Dachau and Buchenwald, with 
DOONESBURY 
their thousands of corpses, to his own memory of the embry­onic remains in the Whitman sampler box. I have no doubt that the suffering of the man and his wife after her miscar­riage were real, but their dis­tress is infinitesimal next to the agony of the Holocaust. 
But Father Griffin suggests that Jews resent the compari­son of such incommensurables just because they have a differ­ent view than "us Christians" and don't believe that an em­bryo is holy-and that is a con­descending insult and a serious distortion of reality. Being hor­rified at the abortion equals holocaust comparison should not require any peculiarly Jew­ish point of view. 
Every person with a con­science should protest, includ­ing atheists. And Father Griffin should apologize for implying that if Jews resent the compar­ison, that must be because they think embryonic life utterly in­consequential. That does not follow, and it was never the is­sue to begin with. 
At risk of diluting the main point here, I want to add a fur­ther suggestion: Christian and Jewish theologies regarding the unborn are probably not, in fact, far apart at all. Father Griffin mentions the Catholic fundamentalist argument that "the Spirit is prompt in confer­ring holiness and humanity" at the moment of conception. But the Spirit, the imago dei in ev­ery human being, is what we have in common, not what makes us unique persons. The image of God signifies the tran­scendence we share that makes us equal before God, but it does not by itself constitute a full individual human being. 
In the Judeo-Christian tradi­tion, a complete person must have a body for earthly exis­tence. That is precisely why Christianity puts so much em­phasis on the doctrine of bodily resurrection. Perhaps Platonic doctrine would sanction the notion of an afterlife of disem­bodied spirits, each of which could count as a person, but this runs counter to the whole weight of the Judea-Christian tradition. That is also the rea­son why Catholic tradition, in agreement with Judaism, does not regard an embryonic col­lection of cells as a proper can­didate for Christian burial, and hence has no liturgy for a mis­carriage. 
This argument does not imply, however, that nothing is wrong with abortion, or that there should be no sanctions against it. There may well be very good social, psychological and moral reasons for thinking that abortion is often reprehensible, just as there will be other considerations weighing against legal sanctions for abortion. 
But the theological concept of a person in the Judea-Christian tradition, I believe, really con­tributes nothing to this issue one way or the other. And there is real advantage in seeing this. It may allow us to move the debate out of the emotional field of religious faith and into a context in which there is potential for compromise and rational agreement on an issue that is tearing our society apart. 
John Davenport Graduate Student 
Feb.28, 1993 

MR..PRe3/awT, HW 

IN 'BB ANf? 't?f, I Pill 50MeFeA­
A80UT 7Ht AV5/<'A6& 
ACTR£$'! HOIA.IIA/IU. 
YOUR NetUPR06RAM
I AFFfJCTHGR"f 
7V/?£WORK. ANI?MAlle 7H5UP­
W/U.,IPJAS 
P&R.M!Wte a/1$./W{}/N '9~ IWJ)!N'87. 
/.A'3TYEAK 
I HAf?A ~89 ANO MA~ 7H5 
I IJ!l?A 
UPP£3R CiA55. 8UT 
JU$7" WO!<I<----~ IN6 
/.QTCFPJ­

//.0157H'J!:£
YeARS. 

~ 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
MeANING I'M NOT 
IIJORI<IN6. 
I 5/R, caJfj) I 6eTCN50F 
~QXJL. 
N/3WHI6H­(,(JAYJ085? 
"I am a czar-a slave, I am a worm-a god." 
G.R. Derzhavin 
Are you a czar, or what? Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 


Gender Studies gives students alook at societal gender relations 
By MARY SCHULTZE 
Accent Writer 
.Jane Doe and her boyfriend often sit in Jane's room and argue about the status of women in society. While Jane contends that women are treated as secondary citizens, her boyfriend believes the feminist movement has achieved its goal of gender equality. 
Although Notre Dame became a co-educational institution 20 years ago, discussions about gender relations have been largely r.onfi1wd to late night talks with friends and roommates. 
This began to change, however, when women on the faculty from several disciplines decided they would like to have a concentration in gender studies. according to Ava Collins, Gender Studies Director. The original proposal was written by Professors Kathleen Wiegert and Joan Aldous. and with the pflrmission of the University, the Gender Studies program bngan four years ago when the program received a Lilly Grant to develop a curriculum. 
"Gender Studies introduces a discussion of gender in an academic atmosphere," said Collins. A multidisciplinary program, Gender Studies investigates what it means to be a woman or man today, feminism, and the ways in which ideas of gender shape how we live. The courses examine how the various social studies and humanities disciplines examine how gender roles have been defined throughout society. 
Currently, 37 students, of which three are male, concentrate in gender studies. These students take 15 credit hours of a foundations course, two core courses, one Gender Studies elective course, and three semesters of a one-credit Colloquium which focuses on contemporary developments in gender studies. 
Through courses in the social sciences and the humanities, students have the opportunity to explore the impact gender has on a variety of disciplines. 
Senior Alicia Reale decided to concentrate in gender studies because "its spans the different departments. You get a good grasp of gender issues in a variety of fields." 
Some of the Gender Studies courses this year include American Feminist Fiction, American Film: Images of Gender, Gender and Politics in the U.S., Marriage and Family, and Women in America. 
Although Gender Studies investigates women's issues, it does not intend to focus solely on women. "It is called Gender Studies for a reason which is that we don't want to 'ghettorize it.' It's hard to talk about women without talking about men," said Collins. Gender Studies attempts to combat heterosexism, or the tendency to think only in a male/female opposition. 
Yet in the· patriarchal environment of Notre Dame, the fact that Gender Studies does offer many courses dealing with women's issues is what attracts many concentrators. "Since women's issues are generally ignored, I assumed gender studies would focus on women's studies," said Reale. "I took a history course on women in America that paid attention to what women were doing in early American history when the usual textbooks only mention men's contributions." 
The strength of many Gender Studies courses is that they take a different approach and investigate the underlying gender relations and how it affects the understanding of history, literature, film, etc. 
One of the problems facing Gender Studies is attracting more students, particularly males, to its courses. "Because classes have their homes in major departments, hopefully more male students will become aware of these issues as an intellectual endeavor," said Collins. She also stressed that more women need to take up the course of studying and pursuing gender relations. 
As the university hires more women, the concentration will have the opportunity to grow as a concentration and eventually achieve its long­term goal of becoming a major, according to Collins. She would also like to see Gender Studies "take up a politicized role more actively." 
"The future of academic feminism is activism and activism begins in pedagogy," said Collins, quoting a recent essay on feminist studies. 
The Gender Studies program faces a variety of challenges as it aims to appeal to the student body, while remaining focused on an intellectual examination of gender relations. "It is an academic discipline," strssed Collins. "Hopefully students will become more aware of these issues as an intellectual endeavor." 
Currently Gender Studies emphasizes the academic importance of gender relations but this does not inhibit the possibility of extending the lessons outside the classroom. Collins believes that through the examination of gender relations in an academic environment, students can become aware of how they can impact both their intellectual and social life on campus. 

By BECKY BARNES 
Accent Writer 

Editor's note: This story is part ofa monthly Accent series commemorating the 20th anniversary ofcoeducation at Notre Dame. 
When Notre Dame decided to become a coeducational university, most male students gave more thought to the potential social opportunities than to the idea of having women in their classes. 
Many weren't quite sure how to react to this small group of intelligent women, and they didn't know quite what to expect. 
A Scholastic article written in February of 1972, the semester before the arrival of women, jokingly defined several different attitudes and scenarios regarding the enrollment of women. One of these, the "machismo syndrome," was described as a philosophy held by men in which "women are not the highest moral good, but rather the necessary biological apparatus in­suring the sexual sanity of men." 
If this attitude is carried into the classroom, the article continued, "the outgrowth of this male-dominant role is that professors would have to be instructed to deliberately grade women more harshly, though never informing them of this decision, for otherwise the ensuing traumas of the males, due to the destruction of their world view, would cause an epidemic of impotency. Or the administration could admit only less intelligent women.'' 
Of course, this didn't happen. 
In the fall of 1972, 365 women enrolled at Notre Dame, 125 freshman and 240 transfers, most from Saint Mary's. Chosen from an applicant pool of over 1,100, many of these first women had academic qualifications superior to the male students, which was reflected in their performance. At the end of the first semester, the overall GPA for women was 3.12 while the overall GPA of the University was 2.94. 
"Women were numerically the minority, but they stood out aca­demically," said Sr. Elena Malits, chair of the original committee on coeducation. 
This difference didn't make for good male/female relationships, she added. 
Kathy Coleman, a 1978 graduate, agreed that men and women competed in the classroom, which often Jed to social tension. 
h I b
Distributing t e sma 1 num er 0 f 
women in classes also proved
problematic, said Emil Hofman, a 
Freshmen Justin Taylor and Maria Strunsky study in the Hesburgh years ago has changed many things, including types of classes off~ 
all women in his classes C's and didn't hesitate to tell them that, Ford added. 
Some professors found that they had to change their styles of teaching because of the new women. Hofman said he had taught for 25 years like a 
marine core drill instructor, a style appreciated by macho 18-year-olds. 
But he thought women might like something a little different, and found that a father-figure role worked 
better with his female students. "Of course I didn't change any of 
the academic 
c h e m i s t r

professor and dean y ---------------requirements," he 
aded. of freshman year 'In a big lecture, I think it's Primarily, the of studies at the II . . 'd . f first year was one time. Many rea y 1nt1m1 atrng Or a of trial and error, seminars had only woman to speak out ' m a k i n g
one woman, who ' 
adjustments to
I

was usually cal ed find what suited upon to give "the the needs of both woman's point of women and men. view." Most A F II · 
women resented -nn enne y, SeniOr "There were being asked as one E I' h . tensions," said 
ng IS maJOr English Professor
persontospeakfor------------------~------~~ 
all the women in the world, said Hof-James Robinson. man. "They were not perilous times, but 
some tense times." 
Josephine Ford, professor of But overall, most faculty and
theology, found in her classes that 
administrators considered the
many of the first women hesitated to academic climate the most positivespeak at all. 
result of coeducation, said Sr. JohnOne professor automatically gave 


2oYeI 

C 
of 
oedu 
Miriam Jonas, chair that studied the state University in 1977. 
Women changed th£ the classroom, makir and more postive •~xp students and faculty, 5 
According to Chai assistant professor c coeducation does not men and women ~ together, but that the both women and men 
In May of 1972, we 
3.2 percecent of the f< of them were full prof 
The report given committee on coe ommended an incH professors on every le department since I women should have experience which a appreciate and be1 

Thursday, March 4, 1993 The Observer page 9 


business students am concerne or e unsure who or have never had awomen here. 1 don't feel what to blame, 
woman professor, . . . Bowers feels that and most said thatCOmfortable that their life IS the academic they would like to. f f · , environment here 
"It would be help-ree 0 SeXISm. may not equally ful to gain insight -Helen Bowers favor men and 
into the business . ' women. "I am world from a aSSIStant professor concerned for the academic fields." 
This year, women comprise 15.3 percent of professors in the undergraduate colleges, according to statistics on gender and ethnicity from Notre Dame Institutional Research. Of full professors, 4.4 percent are women. 
Seventy-four percent of women professors are in the College of Arts and Letters. and there are no tenured women in the College of Business. The College of Engineering has three female assistant professors. 
Some female 'I 
woman's point of 
view." said Erin Ochoa, a senior marketing major. 
Because they are so few in number, many female professors find themselves overburdened with counseling and advising female students, said Avallone. On an avereage, Professor Avallone usually talks to one or two women a day regarding gender issues . 
So where does all this leave women students today? 
Better off than they were 20 years ago, said Malits. But still with a ways to go. 
Women comprised 42.5 percent of the 1992-93 freshman class, a figure which reflects the applicant pool, said Pat Leonardo, associate director of admissions. 
The admissions office is currently focusing on a "gender blind" admissions policy, but Leonardo said that he cannot predict how the ratio of men to women will change under this new method. 
Statistics from Institutional Re­search show that just over half of all women students are in the College of Arts and Letters. Another 40 percent are evenly distributed in the Colleges of Business and Science, six percent are engineers, and three percent are architecture students. 
While few female students report cases of outright discrimination in their classes, Ava Collins, director of the gender studies program, said that many women "feel a sense of disem­powerment in the classroom." 
"I still think that women students have small voices," Collins said. 
Women don't speak out in classes for several reasons, said Avallone. Many women find if they express a feminist opinion, professors will often call on them as the "class feminist," a label that is often considered demeaning, she said. 
Other women have found that "gender specific name-calling" occurs in the classroom, and there is still the fear that men won't date women who appear too intelligent, she added. 
"In a big lecture, I think it's really intimidating for a woman to speak out," said senior English major Beth Ann Fennelly. 
She also spoke of a drama class that studied only male authors and never addressed issues of gender in the texts. "If texts are sexist, it lays a sexist base to the class," she said. 
Helen Bowers, assistant professor of finance, finds that her women students are less assertive and take fewer leadership roles. Although she sees no difference in test scores between men and women, she said that women speak out less in the classroom. 
Another business student said that 
she thinks male professors have 
different expectations for men and 
women. "Women are often taken less 
seriously. They don't think you're the 
driven type," she 
said. 
d f th Although she is 
of f'lnance w~men here,:· she 
said. "I don t feel comfortable that their life is free of sexism." 
But Notre Dame has changed for the better over the years, said Hofman. "You have to know what it was like before to really compare," he concluded. 


'Xala' examines current political and social problems facing ·Africa 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
AccentEdiW 


The film "'Xala/' by African filmmaker Sembene Ousmane will 
help the African Student Association create discussions on the .. 
current politic.al, economical. social and· cultural problems Africa 
faces. according to the Association's president Guillaume Zounlome. 
Instead of simply portraying European exploitation and racism. 
Ousmane's "Xala,» shown tonight at the Suite Annenberg 
Auditorium. uses satire to focus on the myth of African 
independence and the wholesale black-facing of white colonial 
policies by African leaders. 
''It points outsome ofthe issues ofAfrica, including the rela*. 
tionship between businessmen and the body politic-bOw they.. 
cooperate," said Zounlome. .· 
The film takes place in Africa, 1974, and depicts a self~satisfied, 
half~Westernized black businessman who is suddenly struck by the . 
Xala-;.a i:tu'se which inflicts itsvictim with impotence. .. 
While the .man desperately chases after witch doctors to cure him, 
his impotence becomes a mirror o:f the impotence of young African. 
nations•that are river*independent ·on. white· technology and·· 
bureaucratic structures~ .. . . . . . . ·. . . . ... ·· .. Spokeni11 Wolof and French with English subtitles, the filiJl is 
humorous. sad and satirical-,-"a rilixture of everything," according 
to Zol,lnlome, 
And much credit can be given to Us creator, Ou$mane Sembene. 
Born. in 1923 in a Senegal vill~ge, Sembene spent his youth as a 
fisherman <>n the Casal).lance Coast~ .In 1944. he started as a dock 
workerln France.was an active rilllitantin the French lab()r unions 
and participated in the cultural rn(}vement of African studepts. .. . . 
Teaching himself to read apd .write·. French. Sembene published 
his first novel in the late 1950~"Le D<lcker Noir," a story of the life 
ofAfrican einigres in France.·.His later fiction established him as an 
African writer of international repute. 
Semb1:1ne turnedto filmmaking in 1960 to focus on problems of 
African societ-y. {Jnahle.to oht<Un apprenticeship in Paris, he went to ·· 
Russhi to wo:rk and stl,ldy. ·•. · .·• 
Soon :returning t() Africa, SelJ!})~ne preatect films such as "SoJll"<U ···· 
En:rpb'e'; 962); ":Sorom Sarret~f1963), and·a feature film entitled.... 
"Blaek . . . .··· 1965). ·. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
"?~la" will ]je Sh()wn toni8'}lt at the AJlnenberg A)lditorium at 7 
p.m.; an(} ~ll !We .~elc()~e; Adtt)issio;n ~s a $1 or nmre donation. ·. ·.. ... 
'tlleXdrili · .· · ·.. J~y ...·....·· eJlam~Atrican Studel}t As*. 
si:mbi;tlOn; · .. . . . tfia, an and African~Am.eriean Studies ­· }~ Presid . vernm:ent Department; Minority · t~.rnatl .••.......·.•..• eaee Studies Program and the·• 
~ .A.ffabrs>Offi~~· . ·· · · 
page 10 
The Observer 
Thursday, March 4, 1993 



Men's tennis handles Hoosiers 
By JONATHAN JENSEN talented freshman Mike the way I'm playing." Sports Writer Sprouse. and the two produced Then at two-doubles, seniors a huge 8-4 victory over a team Mark Schmidt and Ron Rosas 
The Notre Dame men's tennis made up of Indiana's number­came up with a big 8-6 win over team tightened their stran­one singles player Chris Angell Mark Ableman and Dave Held glehold on the title of the Mid­and Erik Barrett. to seal the doubles point. 
west's top collegiate tennis "We served really well, our If there was one not-so-bright 
team with a 6-1 thumping of ri­first serves really helped us," spot in the win. it would be Will 
val Indiana last afternoon at the said Sprouse, who noted that he Forsyth and Chuck Coleman's 8­
Eek Tennis Pavilion, handing liknd the new combination. 5 loss to Chris Angell and Tom 
the Hoosiers their first loss this "I love it, he (Wojtalik) gives Wiese at one-doubles. "I think 
year. me a bit of motivation. He has when we have problems is The Irish looked to their two a lot of experience and that when we're not playing well at 
and three-doubles teams to pick calms me down on the court," the same time," said Forsyth, 
up the crucial doubles point, stated Sprouse, who admits he who came back to pick up a win 
and the two wins sparked Notre is surprised by the impact he at one-singles against Angell,
Dame to their second win over has had this season. "I think if "but when we both play well we 
a top Midwest team, as the Irish he (Bayliss) would have told me can beat anyone."
defeated #23 Minnesota earlier at the beginning of the year I "It was a tough day for us,"
this year. would be consistently playing reiterated Coleman. In three-doubles, Irish coach on a doubles team. I would Forsyth's 6-3, 6-3 sweep at Bob Bayliss went with a new have laughed. But I'm feeling a one-singles came at the ex­combination, bringing in senior lot more confident on the court, pense of an extremely powerfulChris Wojtalik to play with and feeling pretty good about server in Angell, and high­
lighted the Irish singles rout. 
At five and six-singles, Todd Wilson and Wojtalik picked up impressive wins, with Wilson taking Barrett 6-3, 7-6, and Wojtalik battling to a 7-6, 4-6, 7-5 victory over Wiese. Cole­man and Rosas also picked up straight-set wins at two and four-singles, with Coleman dis­posing of Russell 6-4, 6-4, and Rosas dumping Ableman by the same score. 
The Irish's only loss came at three-singles, where Mark Schmidt could not put away Held in the second set and ended up falling 7-6, 6-7, 3-6. 
The Irish, who have already faced four top-ten teams this spring, will need all the tough­ness they can muster this spring break as they travel to sunny Arizona to face three tough foes in #4 Pepperdine, #17 Tennessee, and #25 Ari­zona State in Tempe. 
"It will be an interesting week for us," said Bayliss, who be­lieves that a tough regular sea­son schedule helps a team come tournament time. 
"We've played so many tough teams that I think it has helped us in becoming match-tough. That's really a big advantage," agreed Coleman. 

League team. He has scored a goal against. all but two teams


Connolly 
in the CCHA, and he has earned four assists against both of the 

continued from page 16 
teams which have held him 

Morshead, who was knocked 
scoreless. He is leading all out for the season when he 

CCIIA freshmen in assists. 

fractured his left clavicle on 
Brett Bruininks, who along

February 6, was playing his with Ling is among the five 
best hockey of the year and had Notre Dame players to play in quietly taken hold of the team all thirty two games this season. 
lead in goals. He is still tied for is tied for fifth place in overall first in goals with twelve and scoring with Osiecki. 
lies in fourth place in overall 
Although the Irish have a

scoring. 
dismal record, they are a veryThe Irish have received an talented group of skaters who enormous boost this season by have competed fiercely against

the outstanding play of their 
the top teams in the nation with 

highly talented crop of fresh­
several near upsets. They haw~ 

men. Nine freshman have 
been disadvantaged this year byplayed in at least sixteen games 

injuries and inexperience.

this season, and it is not infre­However. if nothing else theyquent for five freshman to be on have gained the respect of the the ice at a time. 
many foes which may have 

Jamie Ling, who is leading considered them an easy vic­the team in overall scoring, is a tory. They have taken the first 
strong candidate for CCI-lA 
step toward building a highlyRookie of the Year and the All-successful hockey program. 

Strong bench play helps lift men's volleball over UIC 
By KEVIN DOLAN they wanted to play," said Sports Writer Madden. Madden, Ceponis and Leo 
The Notre Dame men's vol­Casas were taken out early in leyball team took an easy game three to allow the bench three-game match from Illinois­some time in the dose game. Chicago ( 1'5-2, 15-5, 15-13) Along with Murdy, freshmen Wednesday night with key per­Miguel Ascencio, Bill Raney and formances from a developing Matt Limtiaco took the floor. bench. Ascencio and Haney each had 
Fifth-year senior Chris Murdy crucial kills late in was the star off the bench for game three, a dose the Irish in the match, setting affair that saw the Irish down Brian Ceponis up for the kill 8-6 before rallying to take the that ended game two and game and mateh. adding three kills and a block "Even though we changed the of his own early in game three. lineup around in games two 
The usual strong perfor­and three, we played right mances were turned in by Matt through it," said Ceponis. Strottman, Tom Kovats and Pat The next home matches for Madden, and it was a jovial the Irish are on March 19 and Irish locker room after the 20, when they face Central match. Michigan and Illinois, respec­
"We all had a lot of fun tively. tonight," said coach Jen Slosar. The Irish played their best "We probably won't face a team volleyball of last season against this easy again this season. It Illinois and hope to repeat that was good to get everybody in." performance on the 20th. 
According to Madden, the In the meantime Ceponis Flames were less than pre­said, "We could all use a pared for the game. break." 
"They didn't really look like 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day trom 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1·800-682·8628.  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  LIVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT YEAR?  ADOPTION: A loving happy home, financial security, and educational  Congratulations & Good Luck Dave Kinney! You should be OK despite  
I'm a-going to Disney World!  219-291-7153.  NEED FURNITURE? WE HAVE:  opportunities await your newborn. We can help with your expenses.  the lac! that you're a guy. Big "0" women rule.  
TYPING 256-6657  Actually, I am going home to  6,3,2 & 1 BEDROOM  BEDS  Please call us collect: David and  Love, Kelley  
Orlando, the City Beautiful, home of  HOMES.NEAR CAMPUS. FURN.  COUCHES  Rosemery (919) 288-4490 Let's  
Dissertations, Theses. Term Papers Word Works Typtng Service 277·7406  much more than Shaq and Mickey, for Spring Break. I've got some room, too. Join me. Call toll-free 273-0895, and ask for Ro.  AVAIL. NOW, SUMMER, OR FALL.272-6306 4 BEDRM/3BATHRM SEMI­ TABLE 5CHAfRS ENTERTAINMENT CENTER DRESSERS  help each other. CANCUN FOR $99! Roundtrip airfare $99, complete packages  LEAVING YOUR CAR AT NO FOR THE SUMMER? NEED A CARSITIER? CALL 4·4092. WILL PAY$$$.  

 FURN. OAK HILL CONDO  ANDA DESK  from $199! Call STS@ 1-800-648­ 
ILOST & FOUND I  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -Earn $2.000+/month +world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean.  4 RENT '93·'94 SUM and/or YEAR CALL 277-9452  CALL 273-2810  4849. LORREI- In the final personal, I leave the following people these random things: Shirley, thank you for  
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No  NEED A QUIET PLACE TO WRITE YOUR BOOK OR THESIS? Full  PERSONAL  here I am -but I never got the picture. I want my  everything, you are the best!!! Anne, don't you dare put in that ad; Jen,  
LOST: Black Book Bag at SOH During Lunch 2/26­Piease Help-DESPERATELY Need Notes For Exams-No Questions Asked-Call Tim x3372 $$$Reward$$$-Help me find my gold Monet watch. It has a stone in each of the links. Lost Fri. 2/26 between NOH. Keenan & Lewis. Call Alliex4120 Lost-·Elaine's keys and NO key pouch with 10. Detex,etc. Please call X2461. FOUND: MAN'S WATCH OUTSIDE OF LOFTUS LAST WEEK. CALL MIKE AT 634-1033 AND IDENTIFY.  experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634·0468 ext. C5584. 50,000,000 babies Help! Need ride to Mpls/St. Paul for Spring Break! I'll help pay tolls/gas Call Marty 41206 3-4 CUBIC FT. DORM SIZE REFRIGERATOR. WILL PAY CASH. CALL TIM 631·7646. Summer Girl Needed · Chicago North Suburbs. Live In and care for 1,6. & 10 year old boys. Prefer Non­ Eqp Cottage Palisades Pil Near So Haven Ml (708)446-6118 ROOMMATE by Apr 1. Castle Point . Fem, non-smo. 140/mO+UI. New carp, cath. ceil, Ill. 271-0801 Newly Remodeled 5br. house for rent Close to NO, all appliances, security system, etc. $650/ mth. 232-8256 2 br. Apts for rent totally remodeled with new appliances and lots of space truly the best price in town Call us and compare 232-8256  HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP!HELP! HELP! Desperate female seeking ride to D.C. area for spring break. Will help pay for gas and tolls. Call Leah @ 284-4308 and leave message. Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. Pregnant and feeling alone with no where to turn? We offer confidential counseling at no cost to you. For more information call Nancy at 232­5843.  $2. -snap-a-scam-man. Student Activities is now hiring students for the 1993·94 academic year. Positions available as Building Managers, Sound Techs, Room Monitors, Stepan Managers, Set Up Crew, Information Desk & Games Room Attendants, and more. Stop by 315 LaFortune to pick up an application.Deadline for applying is Friday, March 19. Congratulations to the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team on another successful season! This year was a blast­you guys are the best! It's sad  have fun at ed. board; J.J. Keep Pokey away from Karl and Leah; Sipes, please knock, eh?; Rich. the personals war has now ended...start the air hockey wars; to Leah, a vege-wopper, smokey·treat and "; Mony, thanks and a well wish for the future; to Kevin Hardman. the classifieds; and to Dave Kinney, Monica. Perky, The Momentary Lapse of Reason was... WOW! Hope you enjoy the big one on Friday as much as the Iii' one. Rescuer ..... HAPPY BIRTHDAY ••••• """MOLLY LAWRENCE •••••  
- WANTED PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800· 786·8373. Adoption-Active. Young couple  smoker with Drivers license. Salary plus Room & Board. Interested person call 708-295·3493. FOR RENT I '------------~ Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom House now for 93·94 school year 234-1886  I FOR SALE I STEREO FOR SALE. Dual cassette recorder, turntable, am/lm radio, graphic equalizer. Good condition. Needs speakers. $200. Call Sandy at 233-2407.  Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach; your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597.  to be ending, but fear not-the "pennis" will rise again next year! LOVE, Jen (tramp, puke, Dutch, Gussy, etc.) p.s. We'll miss you: Danahy (good luck in the real world) Smigs (good luck in grad school) Katie (have fun in Ireland)  We miss you. Kathy & Molly Hey. Happy Birthday John Love. Me P.S. Let's celebrate by poking.  

Thursday, March 4, 1993 The Observer page 11 
California Angels top list 


Irish 
-

continued from page 16 
of Notre Dame opponents 
sophomore Paul Failla will By JENNY MARTEN Murphy on Arizona: replace Counsell at shortstop Associate Sports Editor "Arizona's got a great ball club. and sophomore Craig DeSensi They've got two first-round will step in at third. Here's a round-up of the Irish draft pick pitchers and their 
All four infielders have lim­baseball opponents during the hitting is outstanding. I'm not ited experience, but should seven-game spring break trip. going to say that we can't beat prove to be valuable to the ARIZONA STATE-March 8 them. I think we'll go down team. Failla who is in the hunt The Sun Devils (16-4) are 11-there and play well. I think we for the starting quarterback job 2 at home this year and are have a chance to be real com­for the football team will miss most recently coming off a suc­petitive with them. They're a 10-12 games for football, but cessful road trip to UCLA. solid veteran baseball team." will be the starting shortstop 
Against the Bruins, Arizona CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Mar. and number-three hitter for the State won two out of three. 10 
Irish. Irish coach Pat Murphy on Murphy on the Angels:
The outfield will be led by the Arizona State: "Arizona State "That'll be a real good experi­experience of Hartwell in left­didn't know how good they ence for our players and I think field and Danapilis in right. In were going to be and now it'll be areal confidence builder 
centerfield will be sophomore they're 16-4 and beating ev­because our players are goingSteve Verduzco, 1992 Midwest­erybody. I feel like they're on a to see that these are the best in ern Collegiate Conference all­real confidence kick. Nobody the business and we can stay on 
newcomer. 
knew how good they were going the field with them. 
The 1993 freshmen class to be. They've got some real WICHITA STATE-Mar. 12, should also contribute to the good depth offensively. Their 13, 14 success of the team. Ryan pitching staff is deep also." The Shockers (3-0) are led by Topham, Robert Kent. A.J. ARIZONA-March 9,10 outfielder Carl Hall {.625, 1 Jones. Mark Mapes, and Rowan team during spring break. The Wildcats (11-5) lead the HR), second baseman Joe Jack­Richards are all rookies to keep series against Notre Dame, 3-0, son (.500, 3 RBI) and first
They're attitudes have been It is difficult to predict how 
an eye on this season. with all three games played in baseman Toby Smith (.273, 5
outstanding and I equate them the Irish will do on their road
Murphy is pleased with their 1961. Arizona is led by All-PAC-RBI).
to the Cory Mee, Counsell class. trip.
progress. 10 rightfielder John Tejek, Murphy on Wichita State: "No
They're that type of class. A 
leftfielder Robbie Moen with a question-we're going to be thereal overachieving class with 
"It's hard to say how a team

"They've been a real godsend. 10-game hitting streak, and best team they play. They've got 
great attitudes. I'm really 
will do against this kind of

None of them are really ready catcher Willie Morales (.397, 5 a great program. They play a
pleased with our freshmen 
competition this early in the

to step right in and be a HR, 15 RBI). The Wildcats' tal­lot of home games. They've got
class. They've got a great future
mainstay in our program yet. A season," Murphy said. "We'll ented pitching staff is bothered great pitching. One of their kids 
here."
couple of them are pretty close. find out." by injuries. will be a first-rounder also." 

CAMPUS MINISTRY .•• .•.CONSIDERATIONS 

The naming and the healing 
Perhaps you remember this story: Many years ago, out in the country, Jesus was confronted with a man possessed by the devil. Before healing the man, Jesus addressed the evil spirit, and when he did so he asked the devil for his name. 
But the devil was not so easily tricked. He replied: "My name is Legion, for we are many." 
An insignificant little story, perhaps, but it is one that we could spend a long time mulling over during these Lenten days. 
There was a reason the devil would not give Jesus his name. In Old Testament times, people believed that there was a real power in naming. They were loathe to disclose their names to anyone, for fear that the stranger would have some kind of control over them. It is very different from our society, where we'll plaster our names just about anywhere, from license plates to tee-shirts. Signing our names or disclosing our identities doesn't seem to have the sacredness it once did. 
But in some ways, our ability to name, and the power that can happen in that naming, is just as significant as it was two thousand years ago. This is especially true when it comes to things that have control over us. 
Many things can control our lives-they are legion, just as the devil cunningly observed in the story above. They may be destructive habits, like alcohol and substance abuse, or an eating disorder. Or we may be controlled by events from the past that seem not to fade from our memory. People experience great struggles with lonelines and depression. Relationships that are treasured and 
very beautiful can to turn to shame, for reasons that seem to be beyond our control. And sometimes, that which controls our life is just simple anxiety­
we don't know which direction to take, or what the future may hold. 
When we begin to name the habits, the events, fears, or the memories that hold us back, we begin a journey back toward the Light. One of the greatest examples of the power of naming, and the healing that comes from it, is rooted in the experience of the addict. The first step toward recovery is to accept the fact that you are what you are, and that you cannot control who you are. In that moment, a long process of healing begins. There is a total acceptance -a naming, if you will-of one's condition or predicament. The healing stems from that moment of truth and revelation. 
Thankfully, we can name more than the dark habits of our life. The truth of 
naming is just as powerful when we identify those things that can help us out of 
our dilemmas. These are the tools that help us focus on hope, or help us derive 
some inspiration out of our everyday struggles. What are these tools? Where 
can their names be found? 
One of the greatest tools we have is the knowledge that we are never far from 
God's embrace. There is a poster/reading that many around here are fond of, 
called "Footprints in the Sand." It speaks of the truth that, especially during 
moments of intense adversity and loneliness, God is always present. 
Another great tool is inspiration, the kind we get when we read something very 
profound, or listen to beautiful music. The Psalms are songs -love poetry, as it 
were, of God's continued relationship with humanity. In the psalms can be 
found many inspiring tools that can help us shape our lives. 
For instance, the first psalm we hear during Lent is Psalm 51, the response for Ash Wednesday. It is also our response for the First Sunday of Lent, and continues as a refrain for many of the weekdays: "Have mercy on me, 0 Lord; in your kindness cleanse me from sin." What does this refrain name as its truth? One is this: that in our transgressions, we are cleansed by kindness. Not through guilt, or aggression, or some kind of righteous wrath. We are cleansed by kindness. The kindness that Jesus talked about when he told stories of Loving Fathers and Prodigal Sons.  
One hopeful image during Lent is taken from the writings of the prophet Isaiah, and read in our churches on Friday following Ash Wednesday: " ... Lift up your voice like a trumpet blast! Would that today you might fast so as to make your voice heard on high! " And later on in the passage: "This is the manner of fasting that I wish: Releasing those bound unjustly, untying the thongs of the yoke, and setting free the oppressed!"  
It is a hope-filled reading, heralding great joy and freedom-not what we're used to finding in Lenten readings. And it offers us some insight into what our Lent could really be like. Why not, during this season, forget about the candy and dig down into what really causes our pain? Why not look at the season of Lent as a time of release, as a time of preparation for joy, as a time to set free ourselves and those around us from the things that drag us down? Instead of seeing this as a period of deprivation, why not look at these days as an opportunity for living in abundant prayer and peace?  
We can do this in so many simple ways. Tum to the psalms, our poetry and prayer-book of the Scriptures. Look within our own hearts, and the hearts of those with whom we live. What are our burdens? Can we name them? And after naming them, can we also find some inspiration to better cope with our plight? Can we help those we love name the things that keep them imprisoned? And, if we have the courage to help with the naming, can we accompany our friends (and ourselves) on the ensuing journey to wholeness?  
There is a wonderful discipline to the season of Lent. Giving up things we like, turning more to prayer and inward peace, and partaking of community activities all help us to focus on who we are, and the kind of people we are meant to be. But perhaps the greatest aspect of the season has nothing to do with our activities, but with our ability to get in touch with, to name, the aspects of our lives that help or hinder our day to day journey to God. When we begin to name these aspects of living, then we begin our Lenten pilgrimage toward Easter joy.  - 
Steven C. Warner  
SCIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY  - 
1ST READING  Genesis 12, 1 ~4  
2ND READING  2 Timothy 1, 8~10  - 
GosPEL  Matthew 17, 1~9  


--------------~-----~-~--~ -~----~ ~~ ~---~ --~~--~-­
-
--
-
"Quality vvithout compromise" 
~ . CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
No Nonsense Lease Only at Campus View Apartments Compare and Save! 
•9 
month lease covering actual school year. 

•Or 
new 12 month option if this better suits your needs. 

• 
Lower rates with guaranteed bottom line costs. 

• 
No shocks or surprises which produce fluctuations and increases in rents. 

• 
You pay No utilities at Campus View. You do not have to depend on estimates. Utility estimates by competitors are seldom accurate. 

•New 
subleasing policy-with 12 month lease-Come in and talk to us. 

• 
Don't be fooled by our competition. 

•Campus 
View gives you guaranteed lease programs and costs. 

•Campus 
View has served the ND, SMC, and HC communities for 20 years. We continue to back up our word. 


The Campus View family enjoys quality care together with savings. Come meet with us and give us the opportunity to review our program with you. 
Call Dorene at 272--1441 We're waiting for your call. 

Thursday, March 4, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Butler stands in the way of McGraw's mark 
eventually brought light to Chicago's State Street, and the new power of electricity to millions. 
In the mid-1960's men and women with Edison's ambition embarked on an equally impressive agenda: to supply the electrical needs of Northern Illinois well into the 21" century. Their ideas created one of the largest and most visionary nuclear building programs in the world. 
Today, we're the nation's largest nuclear utility with more opportunities for great thinkers in engineering than any other utility. 
Meet the people who are meeting tomorrow's challenges. 
Register to see our recruiters when they are on campus to recruit engineers on March 17, 1993, and attend our information session on March 16 from 7-9 p.m. in the Main Lounge of the University Club. 
For more information, and to register for our recruiting schedule, stop by the Placement Center. 
Commonwealth Edison 
A Generation Ahead. 


Hockey 
·­
continued from page 16 
Candidate in the CCHA, has registered 11 goals and dished out 26 assists to lead the Irish in scoring for the season. 
Other Irish weapons include freshman Brett Bruininks (8G, 7A), junior captain Matt Osiecki (6G, 9A), and Hasselman (6G, 1A). 
The Falcons lead the overall series by a 16-12-2 mark, in­cluding two wins this year 5-2 and 7-4 at Bowling Green. 
"We need to contain their top scorers, and convert our own scoring opportunities," con­cluded Schafer. 

After this weekend's contests, I"' 
the Irish will most likely face .·· ' Michigan in the first round of a ·1 
J,.
best of three CCHA playoffs series in AnN Arbor on March 12-14. 

The Observer/John Rock Dan Marvin and the rest of the Irish seniors will play their final home game tonight against Bowling Green. 


7 Day Delivery 
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets 
Clock tower Square  ( 219)2 7 7 "'  1291O't~e,'t  ~  
c;1400 31 North  ~~'t  
·South Bend, IN 46637  ~  ~~~  

Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Not good for Valentine's Day 
LoADED WEAPON I (PG13) 
5:15, 7:30, 10:00 
DAMAGE (A} 
4:30, 1:00bUoOAouNDttocl AY (PO) 4:45, 7:15, 8:45 
... 


GRADUATION 
STUDENT WORKERS 
-

FREE ROOM AND BOARD MAY 7-16 $5.80/HOUR 
SIGN UP STARTING MARCH 15 10 AM-4 PM LOWER LEVEL-SOUTH DINING HALL 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Records can be distracting. Worrying about breaking a record can shift the focus from the game at hand. 
Muffet McGraw doesn't expect that to happen tonight against Butler as she tries to become Notre Dame's winningest women's basketball coach. 
"The only record we're con­cerned about is six straight MCC championships," McGraw said, referring to Notre Dame's dominance in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tourna­ment in recent years. 
McGraw is currently tied with Mary DiStanislao with 115 wins, but breaking the record won't be an easy task tonight against Butler. 
The Bulldogs already clinched the MCC regular-season title and they handed the Irish an 82-70 loss in January. 
Butler brings a talented squad into tonight's game, led by Julie VonDeilingen, who scored 25 points in the last meeting. Angela Cotton and Mary Majewski each added 15. 
"They're talented and they 
have a lot of experience," Mc­Graw said. "They can beat you from anywhere on the floor." 
Notre Dame is much im­proved since the last meeting with Butler, winning six of their last seven. including a 91-63 rout of Duquesne Monday night. 
Against the Dukes, the Irish had six players in double fig­ures, led by sophomore Audrey Gomez and freshman Stacy Fields with 17 points each. 
Freshman Carey Poor has emerged since entering the starting lineup against Dayton. In her three starts she has to­taled 59 points, connecting on 22 of 33 shots from the field and 13 of 16 from the free throw line. 
"I'm really happy with the way the team is playing right now," McGraw said. "We had some trouble with Butler ear· lier this year, but some of our younger players are really starting to play well." 
Letitia Bowen and Kara Leary are expected to return to the lineup tonight after sitting out the Duquesne game with in­juries. 
Seniors 
continued from page 16 
goals in his career, but his presence has been appreciated. "Eric's come a long way in his development, and we'll miss his competitiveness," Schafer said. 
"The senior defensemen have taught me a lot, and I've gained valuable experience from them," said freshman David Dalgrande. 
The Irish will lose one of their goalkeepers with the gradua­tion of Stevens Point, WI native, Carl Picconatto. Picconatto typi­fies the true student athlete with a cumulative 3.77 GPA in chemistry. 
"He's a pleasure to be around daily, and he's a scholar and gentleman," said Schafer. 
Picconatto, a valuable backup throughout his career, cracked the lineup in November and registered the Irish's first win of the year on November 20. 
"It was a dream to play col­lege hockey and Notre Dame gave me the opportunity," he realized. "It's sad to be leaving, but the team is pumped for a 

win." 
The other three seniors are forwards. Marvin, a three year monogram winner from War­road, MN, has contributed 18 goals in his career. 
"I think he's played his hard­est on every shift in his entire career, which is a tribute to his work ethic," said Schafer. 
"I have mixed feelings about ending my career," said Marvin. "It's been a long year, and I want to leave the Joyce on a high note." 
"My whole career has been worthwhile, and our class has a lot to be proud of," he added. "I want to thank the fans for sup­porting us for four years." 
Janicke, an assistant captain from Brooklyn Park. MN, has 144 career points and ranks ninth on the all time Irish assist list with 98 total assists. "He's a hard nosed competitor who's contributed a lot to our pro­gram," said Schafer. 
Although he's had nagging injuries throughout his senior campaign, Janicke has man­aged to score a team leading 12 goals. ''I'm excited, but I'm a little nervous considering it's my last game," he said. ''I've had a pretty good career and I've enjoyed every minute of it." 
Bankoske, an assistant cap­tain from Williamsville, NY, has had the opportunity to be a part of Notre Dame hockey for five years because of a wrist injury suffered last season. 
"He's a gifted athlete and a real gentleman," said Schafer. 
Bankoske has 177 career points and ranks eighth all time on the Irish assist list. "It's ex­tra special, because I've been here five years," he said. "It will be weird to reminisce about all the memories I've experienced on and off the ice." 
As the Irish close out their first season of CCHA play, the seniors leave behind a young and talented squad. "We're a couple years behind some of the top teams, but we're coming along and I appreciate the efforts of our senior class," 
Don't forget March is energy conservation month 


In 1882 Thomas Edison served as a director in one of Commonwealth Edison's founding companies. His ideas 
L_________________________________________________________________________________________ ­
page 14 The Observer Thursday, March 4, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS
-Adamson a bright spot in loss 
• 
Alternative Lifestyles 
-
Meeting others like yourself isn't always easy. How can you leaJ a loving and fulfilled life without making a puhlic statement? We offer a confidential network 
through which you can get to know others like yourself without leaving the privacy of your own home. Write for free information. 
AlterNet 
18115 Srate RJ. 23, #238 South RenJ, IN 46637 
BY DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
Tlw Notn~ Dame men's basketball team ended their home schedule with a disappointing 80-66 loss to Valparaiso last night. The Irish finished the year with only four wins at home. llowever, on tlw bright side, Matt Adamson, a third year senior walk-on ended his home career in grand fashion. 
Adamson, a 6-] guard from Fair Oaks, CA. startPd his first ganw and scored a career high eight points while playing a career best 20 minutes. Also. he had three steals and numerous deflections throughout the game. 
"l11~ had a great game," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "We didn't plan on playing him so much, but he was playing so well that we left him in." 
"It was exciting to start. and I played as hard as I could," commented Adamson. "It was sad to lose the game." 
"Walking off the court for the linal time was tough," he added. 
Although lw's not a captain, Adamson commands attention. "He's a leader and he always has intelligent things to say," said senior co-captain Monty Williams. 
"liP's a gn•at asset to our program and he's just a great guy," added junior co-captain Brooks Boyer. "I'm just glad I got the opportunity to be around him for three years." 
"lie proved tonight that he's a good player," added Boyer. "lie has a great future in whatever he decides to do." 
Adamson has endured three seasons of banging bodies during practice, but he's enjoyed every mmmmt. 
"This game was my most memorable moment, but it was bittersweet because we lost," he said. "It's been a great three years." 
The surprising play of Adamson limited freshman guard Hyan Hoover to only nine min­utes of action. while starting guard Lamarr Justice registered only ten minutes. 
By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing loss to LaSalle at last weekend's Mid­westf~rn Collegiate Conference Championships, the Notre Dame men's swim team travels to Cleveland State today to compel!~ in the Eastern Inter­collegiate Swimming and Diving Championships. 
"TIHl team is really excited and we're looking forward to swimming fast," said freshman Tim Sznewajs. "The competi­tion at Easterns is always tough, but we're looking to win it." 
The Irish, who placed third last season. will face difficult competition from St. Bonaven-
Turn out your lights 
ReeSports women's safety and self-defense dasses are
"Matt played well and he deserved to be in beginning March 16 from 5-6:10 p.m. at Rockne Memorial. Callthere," said Hoover. "He makes his teammates 631-6100 for more information.
better and I have tremendous respect for him." 
Final Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be Mareh 4 from 11
''I've always been impressed with Matt." said a.m.-1 p.m. in SUB office for a $10 fee.
MacLeod. "He's come to the point where he makes a significant contribution." 
Aikido Club will have practice from 6-8 p.m. on Monday and"He's a blue ribbon young man," concludet:l Wednesday from 2-4 p.m. on Friday in 219 Rockne. Beginners areMacLeod. 
welcome. 
Ultimate Club will be practicing March 4 at 10 p.m.. Bring $10 membership fee. 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. Everyone is welcome. Please call E.D. at 634-1276 with questions. 
The last cheerleading clinic before break wUl be tonight at 7 
.m. in gym 4 of the JACC. . he Mechanical Priests defeated High Balls to win the Co-Ree volleyball championship Tuesday night. Karl Kowalski. Susan Schaeffer, Amy Richardson and Danielle Mahaffey led the winning1 team. ' 
playing time. 
"We did not plan on playing him so much, but he was play­ing well so we left him in," MacLeod said of the senior guard. 
Adamson appreciated a final moment in the spotlight, but like his teammates, he couldn't ignore the dissatisfying end to the season. 
"I had a great three years," Adamson said. "I've had a lot of fun. But it's a sad way to end it. losing this game. Walking out, all I could do was look at the scoreboard and it was real sad. Give Valparaiso credit, though. They have a nice tna1n." 



Valpo 
continued from page 16 
John MacLeod said of his squad's 20 turnovers. "They play as a team, stick their nose in there, and make you pay." 
The Irish paid dearly during a 3:42 stretch in which they could not manage a hoop. Williams finally made a basket with 2:10 remaining, but the Crusaders cruised to the win with 10 straight free throws in the last 1:47. 
,,. 
Adamson, in the first start of his three-year career, con­tributed two rebounds and three steals in 20 minutes of 
Men's swim team prepares for Easterns 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS 
ture, Southern Illinois, Vil­lanova. and host Cleveland State among other teams. 
"We had a letdown last weekend at MCC's, but we feel very prepared for this meet," said Head Coach Tim Welsh. "It's hard to train for two championship meets in a row, but the men feel rested." 
In their dual meet season, Notre Dame defeated both St. Bonaventure and Cleveland State on the road. 
"The Bonnies always provide great competition for us," stated Welsh. "Our dual meet this year was very close, and we expect the same kind of compe­tition from them this weekend." 
The Irish will be led bv senior Colin Cooley, who will attempt to qualify for the NCAA Cham­pionships that take place at the end of the month. 

"This weekend has been the focus of our season," Cooley stated. "Cleveland is a great pool to qualify for NCAA's. The coach has prepared me well and I'm just hoping to swim well." 
Junior Sean Hyer, who will compete in the diving events for the Irish this·weekend, will also compete next weekend in the NCAA· Zone Diving Cham­pionship at the University of Michigan. The top eight finish­ers of the meet will qualify for the NCAA Championship. Hyer will perform eleven dives on both the one and the three meter boards. 
CATCH 'EM 
TONIGHT 

Hockey vs Bowling Green 
Irish last home game 
7:00PM 

Women's 

Basketball 
vs Butler 
7:30PM 
JACC Arena 

''The Shirt'' '93 
Anyone interested in coordinating "The Shirt" for the 1993 football season sign up for interviews in the 
Student Government office, znd Floor, Lafortune. 
Interviews will be Monday evening, March 15, starting at 10 p.m. 
Today 
page 15

Thursday, March 4, 1993 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
SPELUNKER 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
STVPENDOVS /r1AI(S 
ST\lPHIDWS K~OWLEPG£. LEIS 
1·\1111 COMPLETE lt\E ltST 
'tHf\.1 '51\JI'£\'.\OC':l\.JS SI'£ED .' 
14~2 ! n\E BATilE ot LEXIN.GThN! TROT'SI<.~ .' niE CaTION GIN.' 
CROSSWORD 
BILL WATTERSON 

"~Cln\t:R TR\\JIIIPI-1 fOR 'IIRNE At-lll R\GI-\"r.' A.~lll'l<:IW, W\"11\ " 'tJ\-\OOS\-1, STIIfENPOIJS MAN IS O~F INTO nit. SK'\ .' '3) L~, KIDS! ALWI\~S BR\JS\-1 
'{0\JR \Effi! KAPYfiN"G.1 
On this particular day, Rory the raccoon was hunting frogs at his favorite stream, and the pleasant background music told him that Mr. Mountain Lion was nowhere around. 
ACROSS 25 Debut film for 17 52 Person who can Across be grand 
1 Annie Oakley 
29 Disclose 54 Casanovas 5 More judicious 31 Umpire's 59 Conflict 10 Far East weight palms-down 60 "The­unit call Tourist," in 14 Playbill heading 32 Give consent which 17 Across 34 Inlet won an Oscar
15 Rousseau classic 36 "Per ardua ad 
62 Lascivious -,"R.A.F. 63 Singer from the 
16 With regard to motto Bronx 
17 Co-star of 38 Bricklayer's 64 Literary alias "Thelma and 
burden 65 Optician'sLouise" 
39 Big A events product 19 Novelist Ferber 41 Deer: Ger. 66 Arabian bigwig 
20 Spend the 421mpassive 67 Numbskull summer 
45 Rinehart book 21 Surfeited 46 Small sofa 
DOWN 23 Part of R.S.V.P. 48 Having left a will 
1 Trainbearer 50 Shackles24 Prompter's 2 Top pitchers activity 51 Hush-hush org. 
3 Editorial O.K. 40minous 5 Mo. state­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
fairgrounds site 6 Third of a Latin trio 

25 Despot 44 Cryptogra­54 Israeli port 7 Donate pher's device 


26 Refuges 
55 Marceau, e.g. 

8Yalie 
27 "A League 47 Faddists'9 Liberated -,"1992film 56 Town on the
concerns 10-on (get Vire28 Canyon sounds 49 Colt's father squiffed) 
30 "Villain, thou 57 Scut, for one 11 He fooled 17 -":Shak. 52 Weary 
Across in sa Blind part 
33 Regt. head 53 Askew, in "Hero" 

35 Tennis great Yorkshire 61 Prefix with mix 12lrish lake 
37 Nobelist in 13 Prized role Chemistry: 
Get answers to any three clues
1922 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·

22 Kind of wurst 40Reached 
5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0121
43 Camping gear 




on 
sale March 15 
overnight Easter Break trip into c h i c a g o 
April10-11 
stay overnight at the Days Inn, Lake Shore Drive. Bus leaves 1 Oam from the main circle on Saturday and returns after Mass on Sunday. tickets $45 
sroDENTUNION BOAltD 


L..._____________________________ ---------­
------~ ~·-----------------­
-Sports 
page 16 
Thursday, March 4, 1993 

BRYAN CONNOLLY 
Face Off 
Initial CCHA season frustrating for Irish hockey 
Frustration. The only word which 
properly describes the Notre Dame 
hockey team's feelings toward its 
results this season is frustration. 
Through thirty two games this year the Irish hockey team has battled to a somewhat disappointing record of 7­23-2. 
To the average Notre Dame sports fan, these numbers would indicate that the hockey squad is a rather untalented, uncompntilive team. 
Numbers can be deceiving. 
The 1992-93 edition of the Notre Dame hockey team should not be judged solely in terms of its record. Further examination of their performance this year reveals that the Irish have played competitively against many of the best teams in the country and that they could clearly be a .500 team right now had a few more pucks bounced their way. 
This season has been marked by a number of major changes which have madP a strong impaet on the success of the learn. The most significant change the Irish encountered was rejoining the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, a league which is considered by many to be the premier college hockey league in the nation. They have also faced a major revamping of their lineup with the addition of nine regularly playing freshmen. 
Before n~entering the CCHA, the Irish spe~t eight years playing as an independtmt against teams which varied greatly in terms of talent. By jumping to the CCIIA they joined a league whieh has produced four of the last nine national champions, including last year's winners, Lake Superior State. 
Thirteen of the team's 23 losses this season have come from the hands of teams which are ranked in the top ten in the nation. The Irish have also lost six one-goal games, which leads the CCHA, and two two-goal games. 
If the outcomes of these tight contests were reversed the Irish would have had a 15-15-2 record, an outstanding accomplishment by a team in its first season of CCHA play. 
The Irish were disadvantaged earlier in the season by inexperience against teams of CeliA calibre. They lost their first eight games of the year against their league opponents. a streak which was ended when they tied the University of Illinois-Chicago at the UIC Pavilion on November 14. After garnering that point the Irish went on to capture six of their next eleven contests, a stretch which finished with the squad going 5-2-0. 
Since this stretch the Irish have been plagued by injuries to key players. Captain Matt Osiecki, alternate captain Curtis Janicke, and freshman Jamie Morshead have all missed games due to shoulder injuries. Janicke, who has missed six games since the team went on its tear, is tied for the team lead in goals and is second in overall scoring. 
see CONNOLLY/page 10 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
INSIDE SPORTS r::•:::E=a-s-:t:-e-r_n_s_n_e_xt--:-:f:-o-r_m_e_n-:,:-s-s_w_i:-m--=te_a_m...., see page14 
•Men's 
tennis defeats Indiana see page 10 

•Men's 
volleyball spikes UIC see page10 



Monty Williams shoots over Valpo's defense. enough to lead the Irish to victory. 
Hockey looks fora win in home finale 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Hockey team 
concludes regular season play in the 
Central Collegiate Hockey Association 
with a home game tonight against 
Bowling Green (15-20-1 overall; 10-17-1 
in CCHA), and a Saturday night road 
game at Michigan State (21-12-2 overall; 
17-9-2 in CCHA). 
Notre Dame enters the game with a 7­
23-2 overall record after dropping two 
games last weekend to CCHA powers 
Western Michigan and Michigan. 
The Irish currently hold tenth place in 
the CCHA standings, while Bowling 
Green ranks seventh. 
"We'll honor our seniors before the 
game, and hopefully win one for them," 
said Irish coach Ric Schafer. 
Tonight's game marks the final home game for six Notre Dame seniors. In order to stop Bowling Green. the Irish must contain Falcons sophomore center Brian Holzinger, who has scored 24 goals in his last 28 games. "He's one of the premier players in the league," commented Schafer. "Jeff Has­selman has slowed him in the past, but he's a little banged up and we'll have to 

It won't be a relaxing vacation for the Notre Dame baseball team 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
This won't be a relaxing spring break. Playing three top-10 teams and the ·California Angels in seven days, the Notre 
Dame baseball team won't have much time to work on their tans during a seven-game roadtrip out west which features No. 6 Arizona State, No. 7 Wichita State and No. 8 Arizona. 
"We want to establish ourselves as a solid club. We know we're a good ballclub and we know we're going to be a good ballclub at the end of the year. It's always difficult in the initial games to go out and get the feel of things," said fifth-year Irish head coach Pat Murphy. 
Last year, the Irish (48-15) went to the Atlantic Regional championship game of the NCAA tournament, but lost to Miami, 5-l. Unfortunately, the team lost several key players from that team including Craig Counsell, Joe Binkiewiez, Cory Mee, Pat Leahy and Mike Rooney. 
"I don't know if you could ever replace those guys. Those six guys, they're a special group of people," said Murphy. ''I'm looking for some guys to emerge like them, but I don't know if we can replace those guys." 

Valpo runs away from the lri~h, 80-6 
The 1993 team would like to try. 
At the plate, senior sluggers Eric Danapilis (.377, 6 HR) and Eddie Hartwell (.359, 3 IIR) will pace the Irish. Notre Dame will also get plenty of help from designated hitter and comeback kid, Korey Wrobleski. Wrobleski injured his back before his freshman season started and now, after four years of rehab, is back in action. 
On the mound, the Irish are led by an experienced pitching staff which has earned a reputation as hard-working and hard-nosed. Leading the returning staff are AI Walania (RHP, 9-4, 2.94). Chris Michalak (LHP. 10-5, 2.20), Dave Sinnes (RHP, 8-1. 2.31) and Tom Price (LHP, 7-1, 2.80). Bob Lisanti and Matt Haas will share the duties behind the plate. 
"I think this is a solid group of pitchers who will get it done. They're not necessarily great pitchers. They're just winners," said Murphy. 
In general, the defense is weakened by inexperience. Four players are at new posi­tions making half the defense game-day rookies. 
The Notre Dame infield. hurt by the loss of 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports 

Mee and Counsell, will rely on several younger 
Information

players. Hass will step in at first, junior Greg 
Senior Chris Michalak returns

Layson will continue his work at second, 
after leading the team with a 2.20 see IRISH/page 11 ERA in 1992. 


By DAN PIER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame basketball squad entered last night's contest against Valparaiso determined to salvage at least one win from a dismal second half of the season. 
offenses, both teams scowd 33 points on 14 of 2:3 shooting from the floor. 
Williams controlled the inside with 16 points and eight rebounds. 
"We were very concenwd with Monty Williams at half­time," said Valparaiso head coach Homer Drew. "WI' 

consider him an All­Adamson shines in finale American performer. ill' page 14 can hurl you inside or 
The Irish had to settle, however, for fine performances by their lone graduating senior and their top scorer in an 80-66 loss to the Crusaders. 
Matt Adamson, who scored a career-high eight points, and Monty Williams, who poured in 29, were the only two bright spots for Notre Dame. 
The first half of the game seemed like a computer fantasy matchup with one team playing against itself.
The Observer/Macy Hueckel 
Matching scrappy man-to­
His 29 points weren't 
man defenses and patient 
Seniors say goodbye against Bowling Green 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
Tonight's game at the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse will be the last time that six Notre Dame seniors grace the home ice in their careers. Dave Bankoske, Eric Gregoire, Curtis Janicke, Dan Sawyer, Dan Marvin, and Carl Picconatto finish their home careers tonight at 7:00p.m. against Bowling Green. 
As a result, the Irish carry some extra emotion into tonight's contest. 
"It's a cuhnination of four years coming to an end with very few wins at home," realized Sawyer. "There will be a lot of emotion, but it will be fun." Sawyer, a defenseman and three-year monogram winner from Kinnelon, NJ has 24 goals and 40 assists in his career. 
"Dan's had an up and down year, but he's playing the best hockey of his career right now and he's been a valuable member of our program," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. 
Gregoire, another defenseman, had yet to think about his last game. 
"It hasn't hit me, but I'd love to go out on a winning note," he said. 
A three-year monogram winner from Ithaca, N.Y., Gregoire has scored only 6 
see if he can go." 
Hasselman, a sophomore, has played in 63 consecutive games, but a shoulder injury may limit him tonight. 
Besides Holzinger, BGSU boasts a 40 point scorer in senior Brett Harkins, and a 39 point scorer with junior Sean Pronger. 
"We're a little banged up, so everybody needs to contribute offensively and defensively," said Irish assistant captain Dave Bankoske. 
For Notre Dame, Bankoske, senior Curtis Janicke, and freshman Jaime Ling outside, and I wish he would have played more on th1· perimeter tonight." 
The second half began a!-. evenly as the first, but David Hedmon hit a long thren to put the Crusaders ahead for good, 42-39. The Irish stayed close until a chaotic scramble for the ball ended in a Notre Dame turnover, whieh Redmon converted on a layup and a foul to make the score 57-51. 
"We made careless passes and they made us pay for it," Notre Dame head coach 
see VALPO/page 14 
see SENIORS/page 13 
will be looked upon or a scoring punch. 
"We need production from our leaders, because if we put it together we can beat them," Schafer explained. 
Bankoske has been rolling lately with three goals and three assists in his last six games to increase his season totals to 12 goals and 13 assists. 
Janicke, who missed four games prior to last weekend, has scored 12 goals and handed out 18 assists during the season. 
Meanwhile, Ling, a Hookie of the Year 
see HOCKEY/page 13 








