. ------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 122 TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1993 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Another perspective 

Student Activities directors Joe Cassidy and Paul Broadhead (left to right) experience a three­dimensional computer generated environment yesterday during 'Virtual Reality,' in LaFortune Student Center. Student Union Board sponsored the event, which benefited La Casa de Amistad. 

Brooks' court date set for Apr. 13 
Special to The Observer 

Twelve religious, political, business and educational lead­ers from the United States and abroad will join principle speaker Tom Brokaw of NBC News as honorary degree re­cipients at the University of Notre Dame's 148th Com­mencement exercises May 16. 
Degrees will be conferred on some 1,800 undergraduates and 550 advanced degree can­

didates . in 
Justice 
ceremonies . beginning at 2 Shtrley S. 
p.m. (EST) in Abrahamson the arena of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Brokaw, anchor and managing


editor of 'NBC Cardinal Nightly News Cahal Daly With Tom Brokaw,' will receive an honorary doctor of laws de­gree. 
The other honorary degree recipients are: 
• Shirley Abrahamson, justice of Wisconsin Supreme Court and doctor of law. She is the first and only woman to serve on Wisconsin's highest court; Abrahamson was elected in 1989 to her second 10-year term. In addition to her judicial duties, she serves in the John and Catherine MacArthur Foundation program for Re­search on Mental Health and the Law. She is a member of the Council of the American Law Institute. Under the auspices of the United States Information Agency, she has presented lectures to various legal organizations around the world. 
•
Blandina Cardenas-Ramirez, a Southwest Texas State University, doctor of law. She is a leading advocate for minority students in higher education. Cardenas-Ramirez is director of the Center on Values, Achievement and Community in Education at Southwest Texas State University. Prior to assuming her current position in September, she headed the office of minorities in higher education at the American Council on Education (ACE). She is in her second six-year term as a member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, and prior to joining ACE she was vice president for institutional advancement at Our Lady of the Lake University in San Antonio. 

• 
Robert Casey, the governor of Pennsylvania, doctor of law. First elected governor in 1986, Casey was re-elected in 1990 by a margin of more than 1 million votes, the largest landslide in state gubernatorial history. As the country's leading pro-life Democrat, he has made frequent speeches in opposition to the party's position on abortion, including a nationally televised address in April 1992, at the Notre Dame Law School. 

• 
Thomas Coleman, senior partner of Adler, Coleman & Co., doctor of law. A member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees since 1984, Coleman was elected to membership in the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) soon after graduation from the University in 1956. A year later he became a partner with Adler and through the years has served on the boards of governors and directors of the NYSE and the New York Futures Exchange. 


• BenJamin Cosgrove, retired 
see DEGREES I page4 


By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame student and var­sity football player Reggie Brooks, is scheduled to appear in court April 13, for an initial hearing where he will be for­mally advised of his rights and informed of the charge against him. Brooks was arrested March 29, and charged with carrying a handgun without a permit. 
The same charges have been filed against Brooks' cousin Damien Perry and longtime friend Marco Holmes, who were accompanying him on the way back from target practice at a friends home in Marshall County when the three were stopped for speeding and the three guns discovered. They are also scheduled to appear at the initial hearing. 
The three have been charged with a Class A misdemeanor, which carries a maximum penalty of a year in jail and a $5,000 fine, according to Nel­son Chippman, deputy prosecu­tor of Marshall County, who is handling the case. 
At the initial hearing Brooks will likely be offered to partici­pate in a deferred prosecution program which involves enter­ing a contract wherein he agrees to obey the law for a year, and if the time passes without any further violations, all charges will be dropped and the case dismissed, said Chippman. 
Brooks is qualified for the program because he does not have a police record, he said. 


Twelve will receive honorary degrees 
Student Life Committee seeks better communication 
Editor's Note: The following is the second in a four-part seires examining the initial committee reports of Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
By EMILY HAGE Assistant News Editor 
A report recently issued by the Committee on Student Life for the Colloquy for the Year 2000 described proposals fo­cusing on the importance of student life and increased communication among groups involved student activities at Notre Dame. 
The committee, headed by Patricia O'Hara, vice president for student affairs, was divided into four subcommittees that focused on student life policies, residence life, student activities, and student services. 
The divisions of the sub­committees were made in ac­cordance with divisions in the Office of Student Affairs, ac­cording to residence life sub­committee member Katharine Barrett, director of religious education and the rector of Lewis Hall. This division, she said, "has its advantages and disadvantages. It helps us to organize but then maybe there are other ways that we could have approached it." 
Of these subcommittees, those on resident life and student activities conducted the most extensive interviewing process, according to Barrett. The subcommittee on student life policies, on the other hand, "provided a good framework to help us to work on what were some of the ways we should be thinking, while the subcommit­tee on student services was more specific," she said. 
Barrett also said that "people are really interested in the on­going development" involved in residence life. She said pri­mary concerns include spiri­tuality, relationships between male and female students, and the issue of expanding diversity of the student body. 
"The better all of the compo­nents of Student Affairs can work together to help students, the better off everyone will be," she said. Barrett said the office of Student Affairs could work with other groups such as the University Counseling Center, security, the infirmary, Career and Placement Services, and Campus Ministry to form "a cohesive unit for the develop­ment of undergraduate stu­dents and graduate students." 

The subcommittee also dis­cussed changes concerning University Village for graduate students, Barrett said. 
In the report, the subcommit­tee on residential life said that residential life is an integral part of a student's education at Notre Dame. The committee noted that the growing diversity of the student body is an added challenge for residence life that would benefit from increased counseling and psychological services. 
Clark Power, associate pro­fessor in the Program of Liberal Studies and member of the subcommittee on student life policies, said that his subcom­mittee "tried to reaffirm that student life has been important here at Notre Dame." 
"Everyone wanted to see continuing support for student activities," he said. 
Power also said that they dis­cussed the residential mission on campus and how the hall staff fits into this mission. He added that they were con­cerned with providing the "necessary support services" to the hall staff, and the relation­ship between rectors as pas­toral counselors and counselors at the University Counseling Center. 

Multiculturalism was also fo­cused upon, according to Power. "We certainly thought it important in our subcommittee and across the board to keep multiculturalism as an area we want to support." 
Concerning co-ed housing, he said that there was "talk about experimentation" and disagreement among committee members. 
Encouraging the involvement of women and graduate stu­dents was also discussed, in addition to "finding something for students to do," Power said. 
The subcommittee on student life policies reaffirmed that res­idential life is an integral part of life at Notre Dame and made the following additional rec­ommendations: 
•Increased 
interaction be­tween rectors and faculty in residential life. 

•The 
creation of a commer­cial district close to campus. 

•The 
enhancement of rela­tions between male and female 


students. 
•
Increased attention to the role of the rector. 

•The 
adjustment of the Uni­versity Counseling Center to meet the needs of students and hall staffs. 

•Increased 
focus on cultural diversity within Student Affairs. 


The student activities sub­committee recommended the following: expanding LaFortune Student Center and renaming it "LaFortune Multicultural Stu­dent Center;" the construction of a 2,000-3,000-seat multi­purpose facility; increased number of positions in the Of­fice of Minority Affairs and the Office of Interanational Student Affairs; and changes in Student Government, including a re­examination of the adequacy of the present student activity fee. 
Barrett also stressed the im­portance of the report for im­proving communication within the University. 
"I'm looking forward to being a part of implementing these proposals," she said. "[The re­port] really got people talking in mixes of groups that had never been together. Whole new lines of communication have been opened. 
j
--····--~~·,-·-.....,... 
~ 
.. -.,~..-.. __­

--~ ~~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Digable Planets' 
'Rebirth of Slick: 
We cool like dat' 
There is about a month of school left and spring Rob Adams 
is here. The birds have 

returned, the squirrels Day Chief 
are frisky again, and the 

ducks are lounging on campus with their hot, sexy dates. But spring 1993 has a special label attached to it: the rebirth of slick. All thanks to a new rap band called Digable Planets and their Uam "Rebirth of Slick (Cool Like Oat)," the need to be cool has returned-just in time for spring. 
In 1991 we had "O.P.P." and in 1992 we had "Baby Got Back," but rap's surprise hit of 1993 has received a PG rating in "Rebirth of Slick (Cool Like Oat)." Digables' music is based on old jazz styles, smooth lyrics, and the idiosyncratic application of the qualities of insects to their music ("Insects stick together," they claim). You just can't argue with someone named Ladybug who says to her cohort, Butterfly, "Ask Butter how I zone," to which he replies, "Man, Cleopatra Jones." 
Digable Planets, with their invitation to 
Lollapalooza '93 and their recent features in Rolling Stone and Spin, appear to be one swarm that will be around for a while. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students could learn much from these relaxed, mild rappers and their attempts to turn their threatening ghetto environment into a microcosm of peace and love. 
Often on this campus are people too intense in thought or hurried to say a simple "Hello." Stress has become the scapegoat for various degrees of mood swings and close friends commonly have to deal with backlash from each other as a result of the pressure from the academic track meet. Basically, to put it in a way that Digables might, the desire to succeed has superseced the need to recede. 
So smile a bit more, get that necessary amount of sleep, call a friend you have not spoken to in a while. Go over and visit and bring Reachin' (a New Refutation of Time and Space), the Digables' CD to hang out with and get mellow-most of these cats you won't see for a whole summer. 
As the sun begins to shine more consistently, let's see some more people sprawled out on the quads. As the weather gets warmer, let's sport those baggy shorts, that generic T-shirt, and those ancient but comfortable tennis shoes. Let's see more activity outside: more frisbee, more volleyball, more basketball. Let's adopt a more lackadaisical approach to our existence. Lastly, let's make "Rebirth of Slick (Cool Like Oat)" the unofficial ND/SMC anthem for spring 1993, because "pestilent forces can't catch the vibe." 
Check me out: 

"Cos we play like dati We pray like dati We read like dat/We creed like dati We talk like dati We walk like dati We run like dati We done like dati We out..." 
Can you dig it? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today•s Staff 

Sports Jenny Marten News 
VIewpointBevin Kovalik Jason Williams Don Modica 
BusinessProduction John Connorton Kira Hutchinson Liz Heinrich Mike Scrudato Lab Tech Accent Brian M. McDonoughDon Modica Kenya Johnson Graphics Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. Ail reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY AJ AGLANCE 

ra:WiUiO.-.RillliO~-----------------------------------------, 
Andreotti under investigation 
• ROME -Former Premier Giulio Andreotti, a leading figure in Italian politics since World War II, was caught up Monday in the corruption scandals toppling the old political guard. Andreotti, a senator for life, was put on notice by magistrates in Milan, where the scandal probes began a year ago, that he is under investigation for alleged violation of party funding rules, state TV reported. Milan prosecutors are reportedly investigating whether Andreotti helped arrange a $200,000 payoff to the Social Democrats, a small party that has several times been a partner in Christian Democrat-dominated governments. 

NATIONAL Officials warn of pay phone scam 
• INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Secretary of State Joseph Hogsett cautioned Indiana investors Monday to be wary of scam artists pitching pay phones as great investment opportunities. In it, pay phones are being touted as solid investments, offering annual returns of at least 120 percent. Officials say a typical scam begins with a con artist asking consumers to invest at least $2,000 to purchase a pay phone at a site selected by the promoter. They promise that with little or no further involvement, the phones are virtually guaranteed to pay back at least $200 a month. Investigators say the claims of easy money are often untrue and the promoter ultimately leaves with all the money. 

OF INTEREST 
•A 
prayer service for Catherine Walsh, a Saint Mary's senior who died early Sunday morning will be held tonight at 9 p.m. in the Holy Cross Chapel. A memorial mass will be held for Walsh after Easter Break. 

•"How 
to Choose an Arts and Letters Major" will be presented tonight from 6:30-7:30 p.m. in Room 117 O'Shaugnessy by Associate Dean Dian Murray and College Fellow Frank Bonello. 

•"The 
Bill of Rights in Our Times" will be the topic of a talk tonight at 7:30p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Ellen Alderman, co-author of In Our Defense: The Bill of Rights in Action, with Caroline Kennedy, will examine recent cases dealing with the Bill of Rights. The talk will be followed by an open reception, and admission is free. Sponsored by S.U.B. 


MARKET UPDATE 


YESTERDAY'S TRADING April s 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 352,934,410 +0.21 to 244.40 S&P COMPOSITE +0.90 to 442.29 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +8.38 to 3,379.19

UNCHANGED 592 

GOLD 
-$0.18 to $329.60/oz 
SILVER -$0.52 to $3.648/oz 

Retrial in King case unconstitutional 
• NEW YORK -The retrial of four policemen in the Rodney King beating is unconstitutional because it puts them on trial a second time for the same offense, the American Civil Liberties Union said. By a vote of 37-to-29, the ACLU national board decided Sunday against changing its opinion that such trials unconstitutionally subject defendants to double jeopardy, spokesman Phil Gutis said Monday.The Supreme Court has held that such trials are not double jeopardy. Board member Michael Meyers said he and all nine other blacks who voted at the meeting here backed the second King trial. Meyers said the federal charges that the four Los Angeles officers violated King's civil rights in the 1991 videotaped beating were different from the state charges of excessive force on which they were acquitted. 

State upholds murder conviction 
• SAN FRANCISCO -A state appeals court on Monday upheld the murder conviction of a man whose daughter said she suddenly remembered the slaying of her playmate 20 years earlier. The 1st District Court of Appeal ruled that George Franklin was given a fair trial in 1990 for the 1969 fatal beating of 8-year-old Susan Nason. Franklin, now 53, was sentenced to life in prison. The killing was unsolved until Franklin's daughter, Eileen Franklin-Lipsker, said she recalled it in January 1989 while looking into the eyes o her own 7 -year-old daughter. 
•History and Philosophy of Science Colloquium 
will be held today at 4:15 p.m. in Room 131 Decio. Steven Crane will speak on the topic "And God said, 'Let There Be Chaos:' Can the New Physics Rescue The­ology?" Sponsored by the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values. 
•A 
campus-wide penance service will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart tonight at 10 p.m. There will be an opportunity for individual confessions following service. 

•ISO 
Festival, Bendix Theatre-Mandatory meeting for group leaders will be held Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the ISO Lounge. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1896: The first modern Olympic games formally opened in Athens, Greece. 

• 
In 1909: American explorer Robert Edwin Peary became the first person to lead an expedition to the North Pole. 

• 
In 1917: Congress approved a declaration of war against Germany. 

•In 
1987: Los Angeles Dodgers executive AI Campanis told ABC's "Nightline" that blacks "may not have some of the necessities" to hold managerial jobs in major-league baseball. 

• 
In 1991: Iraq reluctantly agreed to accept United Nations conditions for ending the Persian Gulf War. 




Tuesday, April 6, 1993 The Observer page 3 





Academic life policy examined 
By GUY LORANGER News Writer 
The focus of discussion during last night's meeting of the Faculty Senate Committee was the final draft of the Academic Life Report for the Colloquy 2000, which will be presented to the University's Board of Trustees next month. 
The language of the report, the question of its role as either a visionary statement or an in­strument of implementation, as well as the amount of faculty input and representation on the Colloquy 2000's Academic Life Subcommittee were among the many concerns voiced by those present at the meeting. 
"The report should not ignore the Senate's concerns. It will undoubtedly have an impact on the University's academic direction for at least the next 20 years," said Chair Professor Richard Sheehan. 
Professor Michael Detlefsen was placed in charge of a sur­vey to be distributed among faculty members determining whether there exists support for a Senate referendum before the report's May presentation. 
"The Colloquy does not con­tain a single faculty member who was appointed by the fac­ulty itself. It is up to us to make sure, in a forceful way, that our constituency is not sold down the river," Detlefsen said. 
In other business, the Faculty Senate discussed the following: 
• 
The Senate's legal right to know the names of the Univer­sity's top five paid employees. 

• 
A possible resolution against the harassment of indi­viduals due to sexual orienta­tion. 

• 
The establishment of a Women's Resource Center. 

• 
Professor Edward Vasta made a proposal regarding the policy of faculty salaries. 




Leveille leaving after 20 years of service 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH News Editor 
Father Andre Leveille returns to his room in Cavanaugh Hall following his afternoon of teaching at Marian High School in South Bend. He hangs up his coat, checks his answering ma­chine and sifts through his mail. 
The machine is blinking furi­ously, and the possibilities are endless-a Cavanaugh resident with a question for his rector, a young couple hoping Leveille will preside over their wedding, the mother of a cancer patient asking Leveille to make an ur­gent visit. 
The mail spills onto the kitchen table. Letters from alumni with prayer requests. A thank you note from an elderly woman who has been learning to tell stories to her grandchil­dren. Pictures of an infant Leveille recently baptized. 
In the almost 20 years that Leveille has lived and minis­tered in the Notre Dame com­munity, the Holy Cross priest has touched the lives of a countless number of individuals-as a priest, as a counselor, as a storyteller, as a teacher and as a friend. 
However, this summer he will say goodbye to Notre Dame and to South Bend. 
The Holy Cross community recently assigned Leveille to the position of Religious Superior at Notre Dame High School for Boys in Niles, Ill. He will begin work there July 1, 1993. 
In Niles, he will oversee the education of 750 young men, most of whom are immigrant children whose parents are struggling to provide them with quality education, according to Leveille. 
"It excites me," said Leveille. "I see myself as a missionary, and they need a priest there." 
And though Leveille looks forward to his new position, he said it will be difficult for him to leave Notre Dame after so long. 
Leveille first came to South Bend in 197 4 to study theology and receive his Master of Divin-ity at Moreau Seminary. Four years later he was ordained and immediately began active ministry both on campus and in South Bend. 


Over the years, Leveille has served as director of vocations, director of Campus Ministry, rector of Cavanaugh Hall, and chaplain to the NO Alumni As­sociation. But those who have spent any time with Leveille are likely to remember him for his entertaining and thought pro­voking stories. 
To Leveille, who grew up in Canada during a time when story-telling was a way of life, stories are essential to teach­ing, to sharing, and to healing. 
Leveille sorts through his portfolio of mounted pho­tographs looking for a couple props he uses to tell one of his favorite-most influential-sto­ries. 
A smile comes across his face. He found what he needed. Suddenly he launches into a vibrant description of how he 

first learned of the story of Pia Jeffries. Manipulating a broad spectrum of accents and hand signals he traces the story from New York to New Jersey to Australia. 
It is the story of a young girl born deaf. A break-through in science has made it possible for her to finally hear her mother's voice. A beautiful succession of large black and white pho­tographs complement his words as he shows how Pia went from anticipation to surprise to joy. 
In the classroom or during a Mass setting, Leveille might use this story to illustrate the healing stories of Jesus. 
"I rarely preach a sermon or teach a class without using sto­rytelling as a vehicle to convey my message," he said. "Is it an effective method? I think so." 
And so do many of those who hear his stories. 
Leveille recently received a letter from a young man who recently graduated from Notre Dame. As a student struggling through pre-med classes, he heard the story of Pia and it gave him the strength and en­couragement to continue his medical studies. 
"I have framed the picture o Pia and it is mounted on the wall above my desk," he wrote. "Perhaps when I feel like I'm at the end of my rope in school, it will serve as a source of inspi­ration for me. Actually, I know it will." 
His younger students are equally appreciative. 
Whether it be through educa­tion, ministering or counseling, Leveille's years at Notre Dame have been full. 
"I am not leaving Notre Dame forever," he said. "This is my home. My mother house. They say 'cradle to grave,' and I will be buried here." 
The Religious Superior posi­tion, usually lasts six years, ac­cording to Leveille. After that, "who knows. There are so many thing you can do through Notre Dame," he said. 


Peacefest '93 
sponsored by 
World Peace Action Group 
Chisel bother Mr. Head Gropeforluna Severinsen 
Stepan Center April7 Admission $2 8 p.m. -1a.m. 


Student Senate discusses funds 
By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
Student Senate voted unani­mously last night to remove the limit on funds from the carry­forward account available to campus groups for capital im­provements. 
The carry-forward account includes the revenues from the three student-run businesses, Adworks, Irish Gardens, and Notre Dame Video. 
"During the next year, more than $20,000 (the current ceil­ing) can be solicited out of the 

carry-forward account," said Frank Flynn, student body president. 
Currently, the carry-forward account is worth $73,000, ac­cording to Flynn, and there is a $10,000 minimum balance re­quirement. Any allocation ex­ceeding $20,000 will require senate approval in the 1993-94 school year. 
The senate also moved to honor Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill, the 1992-93 Student Body president and vice-presi­dent, with a special resolution 

FLORALCO. 
t 
YO?J MISS THEM Inc. ON EASTER 
327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 



~-232-3354 
Mary B. Green 
Come in and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
for their efforts. 
"Greg and Molly did an out­standing job last year and I think it falls under the Student Senate to recognize them for the work they have done," Flynn said. 
In other business, the senate moved to have the current Freshman Class Council chair­person, Gary Girzadas, remain in that position for the remain­der of the school year even though the 1992-93 senate terms have expired and the sophomore class has officially taken over. 
Arrive alive­Don't drink and drive 

Banjos • Mandolins Accessories• Repairs 241 U.S. 33 N. 1 mile North of 
Saint Mary,s 


272-7510 

.-----------------------~----~-----~----------------------­
page4 The Observer Tuesday, April 6, 1993 

Hills was the nation's principle assists five years as Putnam Professor 
SECURITY BEAT

negotiator on international minority and of Religion at Princeton,


Degrees 

trade talks, including the Gen­o t h e r Raboteau became dean of the 
FRI., APRIL 2

eral Agreement on Tariffs and disadvantaged Graduate School in July 1992. 
1:20 a.m. Notre Dame Security trans­
continued from page 1 

Trade and the North American youths with His scholarly specialties are 
ported an injured Dillon Hall resident

senior vice president of The 
Free Trade Agreement. She post-secondary African-American religion and 
from his dorm room to University

Boeing Co.. doctor of engineer­
Health Services. 

served as HUD secretary in the educational American Catholicism, and he 
ing. The 1949 alumnus of Notre 
1:12 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­

Ford administration-the third opportunities. serves as one of three annually 
ported the theft of his jacket from his

Dame is a world-renowned 
woman to hold a Cabinet posi­Justice An All­rotating chairs of the Princeton 
unlocked dorm room.

expert on airliner safety and 
tion-and spent two years in Alan C. Page American Center for the Study of Ameri­
1:30 p.m. A Breen Phillips Hall

essentially helped engineer 
the Justice Department as an defensive can Religion. His 1978 book, 
resident contacted Notre Dame 

every Boeing aircraft from the 
assistant attorney general. lineman at "Slave Religion: The "Invisible 
Security in regard to a case of stolen 

B-47 and B-52 bombers to the 
property.

• Father Henryk Jankowski, Notre Dame, Institution' in the Antebellum 
2:00 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident re­

707, 727, 737 and 747 
parish priest of St. Brygida he graduated South," has been honored for its 
ported the theft of his bookbag and its

commercial jets. He was chief 
Church in Gdansk, Poland, doc­in 1967 and rich research into the religious 
contents from the lobby of the South

project engineer and director of 
tor of law. Known as the "Priest played for 15 life of slave communities. 
Dining Hall.

engineering on the company's 
of Solidarity," Father Jankowski years with the • Arnold Weber, president, 
2:45 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident 

new twin-engine, wide-bodied 
reported the theft of his bicycle while it

has been the spiritual leader of · National Northwestern University, doctor 
767, and is currently consulting 
was located outside his dorm.

Poland's Solidarity labor union of law. Weber became 
5:18p.m. Notre Dame Security trans­

on technological aspects of the 
since its formation at the Casey League's (NFL) Northwestern's 14th president 
ported an injured Dillon Hall resident
Boeing 777, due out in 1995. 

Gdansk shipyard in 1980. Minnesota in February 1985 after five 
from the Stepan Basketball Courts to

• Cardinal Cahal Daly, arch­
During Solidarity's early years, Vikings and Chicago Bears. The years as president of the Uni­
the Student Health Center. 

bishop of Armagh and primate 
6:05 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident re­

when the Polish government league's Most Valuable Player in versity of Colorado and seven
of all Ireland, doctor of law. 
ported the theft of his bicycle while it

outlawed the union and 1971, he was inducted into the years as a professor and ad­
was locked to the bike rack outside his 

Considered the leading intellec­
imprisoned Lech Walesa and its NFL Hall of Fame in 1988. ministrator at Carnegie Melon 
dorm.

tual in the Catholic Church of 
other leaders, Father • John Roberts, emeritus pro-University. An expert on eco­
Ireland for more than 20 years, 
Jankowski ministered to work­. fessor of chemistry at California nomic policy and industrial and 
Cardinal Daly became his 
ers' spiritual needs and estab­Institute of Technology and labor relations, Weber taught at 
SAT., APRIL 3 

country's Catholic spiritual 
lished a committee to provide doctor of science. A member of the University of Chicago from 
12:43 a.m. Notre Dame Security re­

leader on Dec.16, 1990. A lead­
them with food, medicine, the Cal Tech faculty for 30 1958-73. 
sponded to a case of an intoxicated in­

ing ecumenist, he has fre­
clothing and financial assis­years. Roberts has conducted 
dividual at Dillon Hail. The victim was

quently and forcefully called for 
transported by ambulance to the St.

tance. pioneering studies of organic Joining the honorary degree 
an end to the violence in 
Joseph Medical Center.

• Alan Page, justice, Min­reaction mechanisms and ap­recipients at the May 16 Com­
1:13 p.m. Notre Dame Security trans­

Northern Ireland. lie holds de­
nesota Supreme Court, doctor plications of carbon-13 and ni­mencement exercises will be 
ported an injured Stanford Hall

grees from Queen's University 
of law. In November 1992, after trogen-15 nuclear magnetic Donald Keough, chairman 
resident from the Student Health

of Belfast, St. Patrick's College 
six years as assistant attorney resonance spectrometry to or­emeritus of the University's 
Center to the St. Joseph Medical

of Maynooth, Ireland, and the 
Center.

general, Page became the first ganic chemistry and biochem­trustees and president, chief 

lnstitut Catholique of Paris. 

• Carla Hills, former secretary of housing and urban de­velopment (I-IUD) and former 
U.S. trade representative. doc­tor of law. As trade representa­tive in the Bush administration, African-American elected to Minnesota's Supreme Court. He earned his law degree from the University of Minnesota in 1978, and has served on the board of regents since 1989. His Page Education Foundation istry. In 1990 he received the National Medal of Science from President Bush and shared the Welch Award in Chemistry. 
• Albert Raboteau, dean of the Princeton University Grad­uate School, doctor of law. After operating officer and director of The Coca-Cola Company. Keough is the 1993 recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics. 

2:01 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to an injured Alumni Hail resi­dent at Stepan Field. The victim was transported to the St. Joseph Medical Center by ambulance. 
6:35 p.m. A St. Edward's Hail resident reported the theft of his property from his unlocked dorm room. 

Senators prepared to end gridlock over bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House won't be able to ignore best we can to get as close to to listen if Sen. Mitchell makes White House signaled on Mon­them on future issues. that as possible," he said. a recommendation, but we're day that it was prepared to On the Senate floor, On his way to an opening day still pushing for the president's compromise on its jobs bill as Democrats failed for the third baseball game in Baltimore, package," Stephanopoulos said. Senate Democrats and Republi­time to find enough votes to Clinton jabbed at Republicans White House budget director cans hunted for a way to end halt a GOP filibuster that has for the stalemate. Leon Panetta was dispatched to their standoff over the $16.3 stalled the bill for over a week. "In a time when no new jobs the Capitol and said of the mea­billion package. This time, the vote to halt the are being created ... it means sure, "We don't want it to die 
Behind the scenes, the two delays was 49-29 -11 votes that for political purposes, they here. That would be the worst sides searched for a compro­short of the 60 needed to clear are willing to deny jobs to strategy of all for the American mise over the jobs bill, which is the way for a vote on final pas­places like Baltimore, Dallas, people." a central ingredient of Clinton's sage. Houston. Pittsburgh and prescription for economic re­Senate Majority Leader Ge­Philadelphia and Cleveland and But as the Senate debated the covery. Republicans want to orge Mitchell, D-Maine, con­Seattle," he told reporters. "It's measure on what was supposed trim the measure and pay for it ceded that the message was just real sad." to have been the third day of a by cutting other programs. becoming clear, even before he White House spokesman Ge­two-week Easter recess. 
Referring to Republicans, held a fruitless meeting with his orge Stephanopoulos suggested Republicans showed no signs of Clinton told local reporters that, GOP counterpart, Sen. Bob that a compromise was possi­folding. All of them present "They may hit us a little on Dole, R-Kan. ble. He said the White House voted to keep their delaying this." "If we can't get 60 votes, we would follow Mitchell's lead. tactics going, once again 
GOP lawmakers crowed that can't pass this bill in its present "The Senate's in discussion gaining the vote of conservative the episode shows the White form so we'll have to do the right now and we're prepared Sen. Richard Shelby, D-Aia. 

SUN., APRIL 4 
12:06 a.m. Notre Dame Security stopped a South Bend resident on Ju· niper Road lor exceeding the speed limit and driving on a suspended license. 
12:48 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket and Its contents from the Gorch Game Room at LaFortune Student Center. 
11 :32 a.m. A South Bend resident re­ported the theft of his jacket from the lobby of the South Dining Hall. 
1:09 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident con­tacted Notre Dame Security to report that his bicycle was stolen form the basement of his dorm. 
4:11 p.m. Notre Dame Security re­sponded to a scene of suspicious activity near Douglas road. 
5:59 p.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of some property from the basement of the Law School. 
7:52 p.m. Notre Dame Security trans­ported an Injured graduate student from the Loftus Center to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
10:30 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his CD player from the J.A.C.C.. 


CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS IQ DART BOOK THEO 700 04 #51 J5 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Duffy, R. THEO 700 05 #5136 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Himes, M. THEO 700 06 #5137 · Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Melloh, J. 


AMST 302E 01 4588 THEO 700 07 #5138 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs;
COURSES ADDED AMST 367H 01 470Z 
LaCugna,C. 

AMST 401E 01 4590 THEO 700 08 #5l39 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; 
AMST 404E 01 4593J41 01 #5lJO · Twentieth-Century America; J cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10­VanderKam, J. 

ANTH JIO 01 J49Z THEO 700 09 #5140 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; White, J.
II:00; Majors only through Znd period, then open to all ANTH 359 01 4447415 01 #5lJI • Women and the American Experience; J cr. hrs.; MW THEO 700 10 #5141 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Yoder, J. 
BA 391 01 1212J:S0-5:05; Majors only through Znd period, then open to all; COMM 103 02 9702

cross-listed with AMST 515 
699 oz #514Z • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Attridge, H. CHANGES COMM 103 03 9703 699 OJ #514J -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Blenkinsopp, J. COTH 435 01 4520 699 04 #5144 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Burrell, D. AMST 515 01 #513Z -Women and the American Experience; J cr. hrs.; MW ENGL 31Z 01 1998 699 05 #5145 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Cavadini, J J:S0-5:05; Graduate majors only; cross-listed with AMST 515 ENGL 39ZB 01 461Z 699 06 #5146 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; CWlningham, L. ECON J01 OJ #4919 • ECON 115 or IZ5 or Z24 or Z25 prerequisite ENGL 426A 01 4617 ENGL 435A 01 4580
699 07 #5147 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; D'Angelo, M. MLJA J01 01 #2470 • change time to: MWF Z:ZO-J:10 699 08 #5148 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Duffy, R. ROFR JIO 01 #298Z • change prerequisite to: Any 200 or JOO level French ENGL 453 01 3693 ENGL 466A 01 4605
699 09 #5149 -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Ford, J. course 699 10 #5150 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Himes, M. ROFR J10 02 # 1254 • change prerequisite to: Any 200 or JOO level French ENGL 470 01 4626 699 II #5151 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Krieg, R. course 
ENGL 470A 01 4993 

699 1Z #5152 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; LaCugna, C. ROFR 4IJ 01 #473 I • change prerequisite to: Any JOO or 400 level French ENGL 471 01 4994 699 13 course ENGL 480 01 4628
#5153 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Leyerle, B. 699 14 #5)54 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Malkovsky, B. ROFR 478 01 #4730 • change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level French ENGL 485B 01 46Z9 699 15 course ENGL 495A 01 IZZ3
#5155 -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; McBrien, R. 699 16 #5156 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; McCormick, R. ROFR 485 01 #4729 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level French GEOS 141L 03 4918 699 17 course GOVT 3160 01 4599
#5157 • Dissertation Research; varcr hrs; Melloh,J. 699 18 "5158 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; O'Meara, T. ROIT 3IZ 01 #3260 • change prerequisite to: Any ZOO or 300 levellralian GOVT 478 01 4968 699 19 #5159 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Porter, J. course GSC 495A 01 4646 699 zo #5)60 -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Signer, M. ROIT 345 01 #3540 • change prerequisite to: Any ZOO or 300 levellralian HIST 341A 01 5030 
699 21 course HIST 347A 01 50Z9
#5161 -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Sterling, G. 699 22 #5162 -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Ulrich, E. ROSP 401 01 #5049 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish HlST 395 01 0534 699 23 course HIST 4Z3A 01 SOJI
#5163 -Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; VanderKam, J. 699 24 #5164-DissertationResearch;varcrhrs;Wawrykow,J. ROSP 411 01 #4144 • change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish HIST 458A 01 4115 699 Z5 HIST 474A 01 3494
#5165 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; White, J. course 699 26 #5166 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Whitmore, T. ROSP 451 01 #4743 • change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish MUS 2Z6 01 25Z4 699 Z7 #5167 • Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Yoder, J. course PHIL 246 01 Z6ZO 699 28 #5168 · Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Zaclcman, R. ROSP 483 01 #4742 -change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish PHIL Z61 02 0279 700 02 #5 133 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs;Attridge, H. course PSY 453 01 4790 700 03 #5134 • Nonresident Dissertation Research; var cr hrs; Cavadini, J. ROSP 484 01 #4733 • change prerequisite to: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish RLST 235 31 9531 
course RLST 362 55 9555 TIIEO 246 01 1155 

Tuesday, April 6, 1993 


Russian relief package will cost US shippers 

The Observer 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­Gen. Colin Powell celebrated his 56th birthday with pep talks to 
U.S. troops Monday, con­gratulating them on the work they have done in easing Soma­lia's famine. 
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff made a whirl­wind 25-hour visit to Somalia, including a briefing on the sta­tus of Operation Restore Hope and visits with troops at sea and on land. 
The U.S.-led Operation began last December, when U.S. Marines arrived to help combat starvation and looting in the war-torn country where 350,000 have died in the last year. 
In the town of Merca, 40 miles south of Mogadishu, hundreds of soldiers from the Army's lOth Mountain Division broke into an off-key rendition of "Happy Birthday" after he arrived by helicopter. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A $700 million food aid package for Russia will provide wheat for bread, corn to feed livestock and probably millions for U.S. shippers. 
The aid programs require three-quarters of the goods to be shipped on U.S.-flag vessels. That would be millions of tons at an estimated shipping cost of $57 to $85 per ton. 
By contrast, foreign flag ves­sels can ship for $25 to $28 per metric ton, according to the Transportation Department's Maritime Administration. 
"The worst-case scenario would indicate roughly 40 per­cent of the total spent on ship­ping, which I think would raise some eyebrows, including the president's," said Steve McCoy, president of the North Ameri­can Export Grain Association. His group would rather see the money spent on more grain. 
McCoy based the estimate on a recently quoted U.S. shipping rate of $85 a ton. 
Higher labor costs, more costly regulations and a less modern fleet have raised U.S. shipping costs, according to studies. The U.S. shipping re­quirement is intended to keep a 
U.S. merchant fleet ready for national defense. 
An Agriculture Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the adminis­tration figured the shipping costs at closer to one-third ­$210 million -based on an es­timated cost of $70 per ton. But he said the rate could change. 
The administration released few details Monday of the $700 million plan to use the Food for Progress program to sell Russia farm goods. The package called for an additional $194 million in direct food grants, rather than loans, mostly through private relief groups. 
Exporters say they want to find out what mix of farm goods the Russians intend to buy under Food for Progress. How much the aid will buy depends on markets, but purchases last month under the program give some clue what Russians can expect. 
The Agriculture Department 
announced shipments of corn at a cost of $10 million per 100,000 metric tons. In another purchase, $102 million covered 520,000 metric tons of wheat and 87,000 metric tons of rice. By U.S. livestock standards, it takes about 1.4 metric tons of corn to fatten a steer for slaughter, a six-month process. 
A metric ton of wheat has nearly 37 bushels. Each bushel can produce 69 one-pound loaves of white bread or nearly 110 one-pound loaves of brown bread, according to Agriculture Department estimates. 
The aid package buys time for American farmers and the administration, which has said it wants to support democratic reforms while keeping Ameri­can agriculture's foot in Rus­sia's door. 
The new aid became neces­sary because Russia was cut off from sales of U.S. farm goods late last year when it began defaulting on bank payments under a commercial program backed by the American gov­ernment. 
Russia's defaults total more than $666 million on payments on $4.1 billion in commercial credits. Payments are still coming due. 
Although some debt will be rescheduled under an agree­ment with creditor nations an­nounced Friday in Paris, offi­cials in the Agriculture De­partment and congressional aides say it may be months be­fore Russia can buy grain un­der that program again. 
Under Food for Progress, the United States can provide grains and other foodstuff~ at rock-bottom interest rates over a number of years, with a six or seven-year grace period for payments. 
The goods then are bought and sold in the Russian econ­omy, with the proceeds used to build a farm and food-process­ing economy, such as con­structing a bakery. Because the Agriculture Department can use surplus commodities or borrow to buy the farm goods, Congress doesn't have to ap­propriate the full $700 million. 


"That's the sorriest 'Happy Birthday' I've ever heard," he laughed. "Do it again." 
The soldiers happily com­plied. After a brief address, the general mingled, shaking hands and posing for photos. 
"I've been tremendously impressed by what I have seen," Powell later told a news conference before leaving the country. "We are well on our way to performing the mission we came for. 
"Morale is high. The troops are proud of what they have done, and they should be." 
The United Nations is prepar­ing to take control of the U.S.­led coalition. May 1 is the target date, but Powell refused to be pinned down on when most of the 12,037 soldiers will be withdrawn. 
"The important thing is to do it well, do it right," Powell said of the transition. "We're not in a hurry to get out of here." 
pageS 
There are plans to leave about 4,000 U.S. soldiers -in­cluding a quick-reaction force -for about a year to take part in the U.N.-led operation. 
Despite the great strides that have been made in ending the strife and starvation, crime and clashes remain substantial problems. 
The country has no govern­ment or courts and only a fledgling police force. 
"We did not promise to dis­arm all of Somalia," Powell said. "That would be impossi­ble. But I think we have made a dent. That is not to say there is not the chance for future strife." 
He also underscored the need for the country to be weaned off the huge amount of aid on which it has become dependent. 
"Somalia should be run by Somalia," Powell said. "It should not be forever on the dole." 




PIZZA TUESDAY! 
Beat the Clock 5:00 p.m ... 7:30 p.m. 
Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 
Free Delivery 




271~1177 


Attention 
College of Business Administration Sophomores and Juniors 
If you are interested in serving as the College of Business Administration representative on the University Academic Code of Honor Committee for the 93/94 academic year please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-­Healy Center, no later than April12, 1993. 
--~---------------­




Business 

page 6 Tuesday, April 6, 1993 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 

New York State approves historic cigarette tax 
•ALBANY, N.Y.-The Legislature adopted an almost $60 billion state budget Monday, approving the highest state cigarette tax in the nation. The budget, for the state fiscal year that began April 1, was late for the ninth straight year. New York's cigarette tax would rise from 39 cents to 56 cents a pack, raising an extra $144 million for the state. Massachusetts now has the highest cigarette tax at 51 cents a pack. The package also included a plan to pump $330 million more into schools. Another four-year, $21 billion plan aims to rebuild the state's roads and mass transit systems and to preserve the New York City area's $1.25 subway and bus fare through 1994. 

JBM reduceL.fiDJployee packages 
•NEW YORK -IBM said it will reduce generous employee buyout packages to save money as it continues slashing its payroll. The buyouts announced Monday are designed to encourage workers to leave the computer company. About 40,000 employees accepted IBM's offer last year, and IBM plans to reduce its work force by another 25,000 in 1993. 

AMEX.liles countersuit against MasterCard 
•NEW YORK-American Express filed a countersuit accusing rival MasterCard International of false advertising, a reflection of the intense competition in the corporate credit card market. The suit, filed Monday, came in response to a March 8 complaint Ma!)terCard brought in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. MasterCard charged American Express with unfair competition and false advertising. 

Hoosiers warned of pay-phone scams 
•INDIANAPOLis-Indiana Secretary of State Joseph Hogsett cautioned Indiana investors Monday to be wary of scam artists pitching pay phones as great investment opportunities. In it, pay phones are being touted as solid investments, offering annual returns of at least 120 percent. Officials say a typical scam begins with a con artist asking consumers to invest at least $2.000 to purchase a pay phone at a site selected by the promoter. They promise that with little or no further involvement. the phones are virtually guaranteed to pay back at least $200 a month. Investigators say many investors get caught up in a so-called "pyramid scheme," in which the promoter ulti· mately leaves with all the money. There is a legitimate pay phone industry that permits people and companies to own pay phones. 

Marriott shareholders file suit 
•wASHINGTON -A group of dissident Marriott Corp. shareholders, including Harvard College, has sued the hotel chain to block its planned split into two companies. The group of preferred shareholders, who said they control 6.4 percent of Mariott's common stock, flied suit Friday in Delaware against 
.the hotel and food services company and its board of directors. Court documents were disclosed Monday. 

Leslie Fa~ files for bankruptcy 
•NEW YO K-The Leslie Fay Cos., a leading women's apparel maker, filed for bankruptcy court protection to ensure it has sufficient capital to stay in business during its investigation for alleged accounting fraud. Leslie Fay said the fraud covered up a $13.7 mlllion loss last year. The company put Chief Financial Officer Paul Polishan on paid leave pending the outcome of the investigation. The court riling came on Monday. 
By MICHAEL O'HARA 
Business Writer 
Since the opening of Associate Athletic Director Missy Conboy's new bagel shop, a new dining option is available to students and the Michiana community. 
Studebagels, after a year and a half in the planning stages, opened during spring break to a receptive audience. 
"We had to open the doors and just start selling," Conboy said. 
Conboy said that business at first was "gradual" but then picked up as the news about the new shop began to spread by word of mouth. 
"We started out with making 60 dozen bagels a day," Conboy said. "Recently we made 130 dozen and sold all but five dozen. We are very quality conscious and do not serve day­old bagels." 
With the leftover bagels, Conboy said she usually does one of two things -large amounts of leftovers are taken to the homeless shelter, and smaller amounts are made into bagel chips. 


Besides bagels and bagel chips, a wide range of other items are available at Stude· bagels. The shop sells a "full line" of sandwiches and cream cheeses for the bagels which often vary each day. 
"There are ten different kinds of bagels daily," Conboy said. "The favorite is cinnamon-raisin." 
To wash the bagels down Studebagels now offers juices, sodas and coffee which Conboy said she hopes to expand into cappuccino and other gourmet coffees. 
While she said she wants to expand the beverage selection, expanding the business into more shops and franchising are far off thoughts, Conboy said. 
"Banks are very conservative right now," she said. Although lenders were not originally re· captive to Conboy and her idea, in retrospect she said she is pleased how everything turned out, even with the risk. 
"We decided to risk our money now while we're young, rather than wait until later, n she said. "We tried to do it in an economical manner." 
Economics has meant not having enough employees at present, according to Conboy. "Eventually, hopefully, we'll have enough employees," she said. 
While the employee search is on, Conboy and her husband have to work in the shop, par­ticularly on weekends, putting in up to fourteen hours a day. "We do everything," she said. 
In addition to her work at Studebagels, Conboy still must maintain her position at the University. 
"I like my job at the Univer­sity," she said. "I don't antici· pate running the bagel shop will become full-time." 
According to Conboy it was through her job at Notre Dame that she got the idea to open a bagel shop. Travelling to dif· ferent towns she said she al­ways went to a bagel shop, and realized that there was a mar­ket in South Bend for a similar venture. 
"It was something a college town should have," she said. "I hope to make the community a better community. I like South Bend." 
Located in the Campus Shops off State Route 23 near Tracks Records, Studebagels is open Monday to Friday 6:30 a.m. to 
6:30 p.m., Saturday 6:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday 7 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Conboy said she feels her business helps complement the other shops in the area by attracting more students off campus. 

Mercedes-Benz to begin U.S. production 
DEARBORN. Mich. (AP)­German luxury carmaker Mercedes-Benz on Monday confirmed months of rumors that it would begin production in the United States, but it isn't yet saying where. 
Beginning in 1997, the factory will produce an all-new four­wheel-drive sport utility vehicle for the U.S. market and for export to Europe. The new plant is expected to create 1,500 permanent jobs. exclud­ing construction of the plant. 
Annual production is ex· pected to be about 60,000 vehi­cles, including 40,000 for ex· port to Europe. The U.S.-pro­duced vehicle will replace the Gelandewagen 300 GE, which is sold in Europe and Japan. No other cars are planned for the plant. 
Indiana is among the states vying for the plant, a spokesman for Gov. Evan Bayh said Monday. 

"Over the last year they have sought some information about Indiana, as well as many other states," said Fred Nation, the governor's press secretary. "But we have no reason to believe that we are among a select few at this point. 
"Hopefully we will just remain in contention so we will have a chance to put our best foot forward," Nation said. 
Speculation on a site had fo­cused on North and South Carolina because Freightliner, a subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz parent Daimler-Benz AG, has three plants in North Carolina. German rival BMW is building a plant in South Carolina and has attracted several suppliers to the area. 
But Mercedes Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer Helmut Werner said it will be two or three months before Mercedes picks a site. Mercedes officials denied their announcement was intended to fuel a bidding war among states. 
"We have had a lot of phone calls, really nearly all 50 states knocking on the door," said Juergen Hubbert, Mercedes­Benz board member in charge of passenger cars. "That was not the reason for today. n 
Hubbert said the entire cost of the U.S. project would be about $650 million. About $300 million of that will be for the plant itself, roughly the same amount BMW has said it will spend on its plant near Spar­tanburg, S.C. The BMW plant is expected to be ready in 1995. 

NO's Conboy opens Studebagels 


Student-run Senior Bar optimistic about future 
By BECKY BARNES 
Business Writer 

Operating under two student managers and one full-time adult general manager, the Alumni-Senior Club (Senior Bar) is one of few student-run establishments that serve alco· hoi on a college campus. 
"Few campuses have what we have here," said Larry Briggs, general manager. 
The bar is entirely self-sup· porting and pays rent to the University for use of the build· ing. Salaries, utility payments and other operating costs must be paid from the income of the bar. 
"It's very important that we have the support of the students because we don't get it from the University," said Briggs. 
But the Administration does set some regulations for the bar. Student Affairs determines minimum prices for drinks and regulates operating hours, said Briggs. 
"But for the most part, they leave us alone," he added. 
Senior Bar and the Adminis· tration operate under "a little tension" because the bar does present liability risk, said Briggs. But Philip Faccenda, vice president and general counsel, said Senior Bar is no greater liability than any other alcohol-serving establishment on campus. 
"Of course there is always a risk," he said. "But it's no greater than any other risk." 
The Morris Inn, the University Club and the JACC also have bars, he said. 
Senior Bar did have some problems with the Administra· tion this year because of a vio· lation of the alcohol advertising policy for campus publications, including The Observer. Stu· dent Affairs "didn't see our creativity in the same light," said Briggs. 
But Father Peter Rocca, assis· tant vice president for student affairs, said the relationship be­tween Senior Bar and Student Affairs has been "superb." 
The Administration has never considered closing the bar while he has been in office and has no plans to do so in the future, he said. "We see it as a potentially healthy thing to have on campus," he said, because of its policy to promote responsible drinking and its close location. 
Until six years ago, Senior Bar was entirely student run. When it began to have problems with mismanagement and the misuse of alcohol, Student Affairs decided to hire Briggs as a full-time manager rather than close the establishment. 
As a manager, his purpose in running Senior Bar is "not to make a ton of money," Briggs said. He is satisfied as long as he can cover expenses and put some money back into the bar. 
Senior bar has seen a de­crease in patronage this year, which Laurie Niemann, next year's rentals and promotion's manager, attributed partially to 

the increase in popularity of Corby's. "Corby's was the new place this year for seniors, n she said. 
But as its initial popularity wanes, she expects to see Se­nior Bar regain its former sup­port. Competition will also de· crease after the Linebacker closes this summer, added Russell Nelson, next year's food and supply manager. 
Briggs also expects to see in­creased support for Senior Bar 
next year.  "Things go in cycles,  
" he said.  "This year is a down  
cycle."  

Senior Erin O'Choa said she has noticed that less people are going to the bar this semester. "It used to be really crowded," she said. 
When there are people there, she likes Senior Bar. "It's big and it has a dance floor," she said. "And it's close so no one has to drive." 
But Senior Dianne Simmo· dynes has a different view. Although she has never been to Senior Bar. she "has no desire to ever go there," she said. "It sounds like a gymnasium that serves alcohol." 
"Why pay the University to drink when you can do it in your dorm room?" she asked. 
Niemann and Nelson have several plans to attract a larger crowd next year. They want to make the twenty student bar tenders as diverse a group as possible, including graduate students, MBA students and fifth-year seniors. 
"We want to make everyone feel welcome," said Nelson. 
They also plan to introduce Friday lunches during football weekends and hope to add more pool tables and dart boards. 
"The facilities here have no comparison," said Nelson. With three bars, a large-screen TV with satellite dish. more space and a better sound system, Senior Bar can comfortably accommodate large crowds and bands. 


Viewpoint 

Tuesday, April 6, 1993 page7 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ••••.••..Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Editor ....•. Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor •.•••.•.•..George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fang Accent Editor................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Intellectual stagnation' bothers students abroad 
Dear Editor: Perhaps we have become Observer Viewpoint pages. exists a world where men and wishing to complain about the 
We are writing in response to naive in our thoughts, thinking Moreover. if students are so women cohabit before mar­same old topics, mull over the the amalgamation of all that Notre Dame and its discontent with Notre Dame, riage, where 20-year-olds are options that we have presented complaint articles written to students on campus are there are several options which given the freedom to develop so that the Viewpoint section The Observer. Currently, we are changing as we change. we deem to be much more their own opinions and make can be reserved as an area in studying abroad with Notre Apparently this is not the case. productive for both the campus their own decisions regarding The Observer for less trivial Dame's Innsbruck Program. Instead students continue to community and irate their lives without a "family" themes, as should be the case at Perhaps this has led to our whine to The Observer about individuals. telling them what they can and a university such as Notre sudden enlightenment regard­the status qtio. Wake up! These options include: study­cannot do, and where it is not Dame. In any case, mull over ing these complaint letters. Given the pool of intellectual ing abroad in Europe, taking a essential to rush through a col­what we have written and think 
Although we study in a for­talent that exists at Notre year off from studying, or lege education without ever ex­of us enjoying our two week eign language, travel around Dame, there is no excuse why transferring to another uni­periencing life outside of the long Easter break on the nude Europe, and drink many a good the Viewpoint pages shouldn't versity. The point is, such lib­comfort and shelter of a gilded beaches in Greece. Oh yea, we Austrian brew, we also receive be an area where student can eral views do not belong at the Dome. almost forgot ...enjoy your The Observer in order to keep read lively and controversial conservative, Catholic Univer­The purpose of this letter is chicken patty. us posted on what is new and intellectual discourse while sity of Notre Dame because that not to complain about Notre changing on the Notre Dame mindlessly devouring another is the way Notre Dame wants it Dame and its students. but campus. Unfortunately, the chicken patty sandwich. to be. Therefore, the solution is rather to bring to light some William Patridge '95 static status of the issues dis­simple: open your mind, Notre options that do not always be­William McDonald '94 cussed in The Observer remain What role should a neutral Dame is not the only way to come apparent as one becomes Notre Dame lnnsbruck as diverse as the weather in European country play in a Eu­live; if you are not happy with it submersed in the maelstrom of Program South Bend. rope where former Eastern Bloc try something else. a mundane and trivial life. March 31, 1993 
This intellectual stagnation is countries are struggling to Outside of Notre Dame, there We suggest that anyone distressing to say the least, reform? How much aid does particularly after considering Germany owe to Russia or to the experiences we have had United Nations humanitarian during our year abroad. Whilst and military operations? What we immerse ourselves in the stance should the United States baptismal waters of various cul­take toward France if its radical tures and ideas, we are sub­right party wins a majority in jected to the ordeal of reading the National Assembly yet another Viewpoint article elections? arguing about whether the din­What lessons can the United ing hall meal card plan should States learn from the health or be changed or not, whether social programs implemented Saint Mary's girls are future by the various European housewives or servants, and countries? Can anything from that oh so new topic of pari­Europe be successfully and etals. practically implemented in the 
From our current perspec­United States? What factors tive, these themes seem as stand in the way of a Unified foreign to us as sex is on cam­Europe? How much of an pus at Notre Dame. It is economic threat can the EC incredible how petty these really be for United States complaints appear when looked business? at with an open mind. It really While we struggled with these baffles us that the same old questions here, you boring complaints and issues continue people criticized the Gipper for to be expressed back at the his grammar usage. These are main campus, despite how just a fraction of the interesting much we have changed and and yet controversial articles continue to change this year. that can be featured in The 
DOONESBURY 



"What small potatoes we all are, compared with what we might be." 
Charles Dudley Warner French-fried, lightly-salted, with a little catsup on the side. Submit: 
QUOTES, PO Box Q, N. D., IN 46556 
Viewpoint

page B Tuesday, April 6, 1993 
Right to speech extends to demonstrators and spectators 
Observer coverage of the trial. But it was all we had. 
Pete Peterson 

CALL sit-in at Father Malloy's By junior year, I was losing office harkened back to my era patience with the campus radi­Beyond Freedom Rock on campus. One story, citing cals and their political sandbox 
handled, something that shouldFather Hesburgh's 15-minute games. There was a difference have been decided long before.

rule, contained a slight error in between being against the war The question was whether theeither grammar or history: "...if and being a professional radi­doors to the placement bureauthose rules were broken, stu­cal, and, while a lot of us allied should be totally blocked or ifdents were either suspended or ourselves with the radicals on interviewees should simply beexpelled." most questions, we often rolled forced to confront the issue asIt should have said, "were to our eyes and snickered at their they went in. Sound familiar? 
be either suspended or ex­overblown, self-important 
What I found bothersome waspelled," because it never hap­rhetoric. 

that the media was present forpened. But it sort of almost kind When Dow Chemical and the this acrimonious debate and Iof did, in the 1969-70 academic CIA showed up on campus to knew they would take the mostyear. I was a witness. recruit that year, there was a extreme statements of the dayI was a witness in the trial good turnout for the demon­and portray those remarks asthat followed. Yes, I was part of stration, but the talk at the 

typical of the demonstrators.

The Great Radical Political Six­scene, instead of addressing the Whatever good might come ofties Fighting Irish Trial of 1970, immorality of working for war forcing individual students towhich wasn't that great, and profiteers. was about how the question their actions would be 
was only a hearing and not a demonstration should be 

Alumni Association benefits students 
As a member of the National Aimee Fitzgerald Graduate! That's all you have Alumni Board of Directors since Alumni Colum to do! Any individual who 1990, I am often asked a receives a degree
a bndge in the natural

number of questions about the (undergraduate or graduate)
progression of events from

Alumni Association by students from NO automatically becomes 
student life to "life after NO."

with whom I come in contact. In a member of the Alumni
With its key campus location,

this column, I will address some Association -and will always be 
the Association can be more

of the most frequently asked a member. Unlike many other
visible and accessible to

questions. In future columns, college alumni associations,
students, helping them to learn

we would like to answer your there are no dues to belong.
how to maintain their ties to the

other questions on the As long as you let the Alumni 
NO family before they leave the

Association, how it works, and Association office know your
University.

how you can benefit from it. current address, you will
In addition, Notre Dame views 

Please jot your questions down receive the Alumni Newsletter
the Alumni Association as an

and drop them off at the and other pertinent information 
integral part of the University.

Alumni Association office. If from the office. In addition,
In fact, the Association is

you'd like a personal reply, just almost all members of the
actually an office of the

ask to speak with a staff Association are automatically
University Relations

member in the office or leave assigned to one of 216 local
Department, which also

your phone number so that geographic clubs (currently,
includes such departments as

someone can get back to you. every state in the U.S. except
Public Helations, Development,

• Where is the Alumni North Dakota is represented by
and Publications. 

Association office? at least one club, along with 18
• Is the Alumni Association

The Alumni Association office foreign countries). You then
involved with students at all?

is located in Hoom 201 of the have the option of joining your
Yes! Among other activities,

Administration Building, at the local club. Almost all local
the Alumni Association

top of the outside steps. clubs, because they are self­
sponsors the NO Porn Pon

• Why is the Alumni supporting, charge minimal
squad and the SARG group.

Association office on campus if dues.
SAHG (Student-Alumni

it is for alumni (not students)? Aimee Fitzgerald represents 
Relations Group) is a student­

Each year. literally thousands of Notre Dame's 10 Rocky
run organization which works

alumni return to campus -for Mountain region alumni clubs 
to promote positive interaction

football games, reunions, (stretching from Calgary.
between students and alumni

Junior Parents Weekend, or Alberta, to Albuquerque. New
through various programs and

simply to visit. By being not just Mexico) as one of the 22 
events. including the Extern

on campus, but in the heart of directors of the National 
program, Legacy receptions,

the campus in the Main Alumni Board. A resident of
Distinguished Alumni Lecture

Building, the Alumni Englewood, Colorado. she is
Series, the annual spring picnic, 

Association offers easy president of Fagan Business
and this year's first annual

accessibility to those visitors. Communications. a marketing
Alumni Awareness Week. 

One of the Alumni and public relations consulting
•How do I become a member

A'isociation 's goals is to serve as firm.
of the Alumni Association? 

more than counterbalanced by the negative impressions cre­ated in the greater community. 
I said as much to Fred Dedrick, the Student Body Vice President, who was standing around watching the demon­stration, and he said, "So get up and tell them." So I stepped forward and said they were hurting the movement and playing into the hands of the right wing and that I was leav­ing. Then I did. 
The confrontation eventually got out of hand. For the first and only time, the 15-minute rule was invoked: The demon­strators were to disperse or face expulsion. When the time limit passed, security began collecting 10 cards. 
The problem was, they didn't differentiate between demon­strators, curious onlookers and involved onlookers. I add that last category because among the IDs collected was Fred's, who was there more-or-less ex officio. 
The process had been so bungled that the matter of sus­pensions and expulsions was dropped, but the university still sought an injunction to keep the demonstrators from further disrupting things, and, when Fred's name appeared on the injunction. I was subpoenaed by the defense to testify that he had encouraged me to tell people to stop demonstrating and go home. 
My big disappointment came when I got back to my house one night and found the sub­poena stuck in the screen door. I wanted some big grim guy in a bad suit to hand it to me, and it would have been a nice gesture. 
The hearing-no, it wasn't really a trial, but never mind-finally came about, and the university didn't have much of a case, but it sure was fun. A photographer was called in to explain his photographs, and the defense attorney was asking him about one shot from the rail down into the rotunda. 
"And then, down this short hallway is the placement bu­reau?" he asked. 
"Objection!" the university's lawyer said. "Defense is leading the witness!" 
The judge looked up in some surprise. "Well, counselor, he's only leading him down a short hallway. Overruled." 
It didn't take long to show that the only unifying thread among those being enjoined from gathering under the Dome was that they had all been there that day. There wasn't clear evidence that they had all been demonstrating, or that they could conspire to order a pizza. much less shut down a university. 
The only thing the university had in hand was a filmed in­terview WNDU-TV had done with one of the guys the day of the demonstration, in which he said something along the lines of, "If they won't listen to us. maybe we'll have to break a few windows to get their atten­tion." 
He insisted he was speaking metaphorically, but metaphors cut little ice in a courtroom. The Great Radical Political Sixties Fighting Irish Trial had ended with the university in posses­sion of an injunction to keep one of its students from gather­ing under the Dome or encour­aging anyone else to demon­strate. 
"As it was explained to me," he recalls today, "if I talked to anyone about demonstrating, or if anyone I knew went to a demonstration, I could be held in contempt of court." 
It's hard to think of an edu­cated American not being in contempt of a court that en­joined a person against exercis­ing the right of free speech. But that's the precedent that was set that day. 
Pete Peterson. '71. is reader­ship services manager at the Press-Republican. a daily newspaper in Plattsburgh. New York. 




I~ 

SPORTS EXTRA
IRISH 

April 6. 1993 



-~-------~
-------~---------~-~ ~ --------~~ 
~ E S T A 


The Observer/Macy Hueckel 

Sophomore Marty DeGraff heads the list of talented young performers in the Notre Dame pitching staff. 
Pitching key to success 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sport Editor 

"There are a lot of people in the country who would trade pitching staffs with Pat Murphy," said Xavier coach John Morrey prior to the Irish four­game sweep of the Muskateers. 
The Notre Dame pitching staff, which returned 39 of 48 wins from the 11th­ranked staff in the nation in 1992, has garnered much attention this year. Led by seniors Chris Michalak, David Sinnes and AI Walania, the staff is experienced and knows how to win. 
Also returning with experience on the mound are junior Tom Price and sophomores Tim Kraus, Marty DeGraff, Dan Adams and Craig Allen. Senior Eric Danapilis, a fixture in right field, has also broken into the starting rotation this year. 
The Irish mound crew is solid and Murphy knows it. 
"I told everyone coming in these pitchers are not 

N~HIN~
'ust talent guys. These guys are 
ERA w L
self-made, blue­

~ . nes 4.91 0 0
collar guys that 

~ N­
...... hn ichalak 5.90 4 0
have to be 
ve nnes 6.61 1 1
complete 
W nia 6.75 0 2 
pitchers," said 

anapilis 8.44 0 0 Murphy. 
Tom Price 8.36 I 1 "Everybody's just 
Jl.ta~ DeGraff 11.25 1 l got to be a total 
~lm raus 14.21 0 1 
ralg Allen 9.64 0-,:;;J)
pitcher with a a variety of pitches." 
ERA w L
The 1993 Notre 
.
nes ­
Dame pitching 

~N­
lchalak 2.20 ~ 105
staff: 
nnes 2.31 8 ~ 1 
C H R I S 

nla 2.94 MICHALAK: The 
nap ills 0.00 g,]f~ ·-· left-hander is the 
7:'':1 ..

Tom Prlcf; 2.80 
1 :}o

Ma~De raff 4.50
top returning 

Tim raus 3.13 2 1 
6.38 2 0 
The Observer/Chnstopher Mullms 
starter for the 

Craig Allen 
Irish after finishing 1992 with a 2.20 ERA and a 10-5 record. His strength is a moving fastball that is thrown at a variety of speeds in addition to a pickoff move which has caught many a runner. Murphy describes Michalak as "A win­ner. A competitor. Right now, the guy we want on the hill." 
AL WALANIA: The right-handed senior has become the closer for the Irish this year with a variety pitches including a fastball, slider and a change-up. Walania was impressive in final innings of the Xavier game allowing no runs and only one hit for the save. According to Murphy, Walania "can be the best guy on the staff." 
DAVID SINNES: The senior right­hander is Notre Dame's all-time strikeout leader with 243 to date. The starter uses a fastball-slider combination to baffle batters. "I need 
SPORTS EXTRA STAFF 
Design: George Dohrmann Graphics: Kory Klem and Christopher Mullins Cover Photo: Macy Hueckel Production: Melissa Cusack and Kevin Hardman 
right-hander is also coming into his own as he tries to crack the starting rotation with a good slider, changeup and fastball. Allen appeared in 12 games last year. 
DAN ADAMS: The sophomore right­hander is used as a long relief man with a potent split-finger fastball. According to Murphy, Adams is "starting to show signs of being able to be a college pitcher." 
A.J. JONES: The freshman right­hander has already appeared in three games as a middle reliever allowing four hits and two runs while striking out two. "The top freshman," said Murphy. "He looks to have a great career here." 
GARRET CARLSON: The freshman right-hander is a long relief man for the Irish. "Great future. Great Make-up." 
my fastball to set up my slider," said Sinnes who throws the pitches as a one­two punch. Murphy calls Sinnes a "Sleeping Giant. Once he starts to believe in himself and block out all these expectations, he'll be fme." 
ERIC DANAPILIS: A fresh face on the mound, the senior right-hander appeared in one game last year, but will appear on the mound as a starter with regularity this year. Murphy's im­pressions of Danapilis include, "Pinpoint control. Great competitor. He doesn't fear anyone on the mound." 
TOM PRICE: The junior left-bander is 14-3 with four saves in his Notre Dame career using a fastball, a curve, a slider and a changeup. "He is kinda like the unsung hero," said Murphy. "Mr. Consistency. Look at his three year record. It's unbelievable. He's had two great years." 
MARTY DEGRAFF: The sophomore 
right-hander is be­ing used a middle man with a strong fastball and breaking ball. One of the biggest sur­prises on the staff, DeGraff has, in the words of Murphy, "Michalak-like competitiveness." 
TIM KRAUS: The sophomore right­hander is coming into his own with a sinking fastball, split-finger fastball and slider. Kraus was drafted in the 11th round by the San Francisco Giants out of high school. 
CRAIG ALLEN: The sophomore 
EDDIE 
HARTWELL Left Field -The senior captain pa­trols left field for the Irish. He hit a for a career-high .359 average in 1992, and he's hitting .380 so far this year. "Four years ago. this kid walked into open tryouts," Murphy said. "Now he is our captain. Edwin has made himself better every year." 
PAUL FAILLA  
Shortstop  The  
sophomore shortstop is  
the most recognizable  
name on the team.  He  
is  battling  for  the  
starting quarterback  
'ob on the Notre Dame  
football team, while  i i ':  ·  
batting  . 356 with two  
home runs and nine RBis.  He's expected  

to miss football practice for today's home-opener, although he may do both. 
DESENSI 
r"­

bird Base ---­Irish coach::;p Pat Murphy~? 
ails his ophomore baseman a Pete Rose e player." 
e is currently tied with Danapilis for the team lead home runs with five and is bat­
ng .314. The Louisville, cky native hit .292 in h shman campaign, starting 18 games at third. 
TOPHAM Designated Hitter-The freshman has b e e n impressive in recent games and earned the designated hitter's job after hitting .480 


Mark Mapes Freshman Avg..667 7RBI I HR 
Robby Birk Sophomore Avg..000 I RBI OHR 

ROWAN RICHAHDS Center Field -Richards is th starter in center field, be sophomore Steve Verduzco, whc transferred. Murphy calls hirr McGee type player." He is hitting first 13 collegiate games, and h1 played a flawless defensive center 

Robbie Kent Freshman Avg..375 6RBI I HR 


Korey Wrobleski 
Players
Senior 
Avg..158 

2RBI Tom Anderson 
I HR 
Bill Fideli Rob Naticchia George Restovich Colin Rittgers Dewan Simon 
Fr. OF Fr. OF So. 1B Fr. INF Fr. 1B Fr. OF 
Assistant Coaches 
Gary Tuck (Second Year) Brian Cleary (Second Year) 
Volunteer Coach 
Cory Mee (First Year) 


----------------------------~-.-------~
I I I I I I I 
I

~C 0 A C H 
The Observer/Macy Hueckel Coach Pat Murphy has been a Notre Dame fan since his youth, and he has Irish fans gleaming over the future of the baseball program. 
Murphy intense about Irish 
TERS 
surprise 
ting out 
has since 
"a Willie .350 in his has been field. 


ERIC DANAPILIS Right Field ­Hitting .480 with five home runs and 21 RBis, senior right fielder Danapilis is the 

brightest star in the Irish lineup. A career .390 hitter, he has never hit more than six home runs in a season, but with five already this year his career total jumped to 
21. If he continues on his current slugging pace, he could break the Notre Dame career home run record of 37. 

Second Base -After an 
injury kept him out of 
the lineup for much of 
his sophomore season, 
second baseman 
Layson returns at the 
keystone. Murphy 
says, "He's just picking 
up where he left off as a freshman." A 
.357 hitter, Layson has committed just 
two errors in 7 4 chances in the field. 
BOB LISANTI Catcher -Catcher is a position with many responsibilities, and Lisanti is handling the pressure despite only being a sophomore. "He's the backbone of our team," Murphy said. He has been in an offensive slump early in the season, hitting just .176, but his defensive skills have made him an asset to the team. 
By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
He wears an expression of fierce intensity, whether he's charging from the dugout to argue a call or strolling to the mound to pitch batting practice. 
In five seasons as Notre Dame's head baseball coach, Pat Murphy has transferred that intensity to his players, building the Irish program from doormat to dominance. 
Murphy's tenure officially began on June 12, 1987, but Notre Dame was his destination long before that. As a high school student in Syracuse, N. Y., Murphy and his friends would pile into a car after a Friday night football game, drive all night to Notre Dame and sneak past the ushers to watch the Irish play on Saturday afternoon. 
"People have no idea how much Notre Dame was a part of my life as a youngster," Murphy said. "I was the kid who was crazy about Notre Dame. I got the South Bend Tribune 
everyday since I was ten years old, and I still have all the copies. I used to pretend in the backyard that I was Notre Dame people." 
He is definitely a Notre Dame person today. But his road to the head coaching position had a few detours. 
A graduate 

history. 
Murphy inherited a program that was coming off a lackluster 15-29 season. The next season, the Irish were winners of 39 games and they have won 45 or more every season since. 
And he expects that trend to continue. 
"We won 45 games for the fifth straight season," he said after losing to Miami in the 1992 NCAA tournament, "and I got news for you, we'll do it again next year. "For a few weeks last season it appeared that Murphy might not have a next year at Notre Dame. Miami coach Ron Fraser retired at sea­son's end and Murphy's name was atop the list of candidates. 
And for at least a few fleeting moments, Miami was atop his list. The warm weather and established program proved to be quite a lure for one of college basketball's biggest fish. 
But Murphy didn't bite. He admitted that the position was tempting, but his commitment to Notre Dame overshadowed the glamour o college baseball's top job. 
"I felt like I owed Notre Dame," he explained. "Notre Dame gave me a chance to make something of mysel and be a recognized coach across the country and I felt like my job, my work here is not done. It doesn't mean I won't 
Florida Atlantic University, Murphy's pitching prowess pushed him into professional baseball ranks with the San Francisco Giants and San Diego Padres organizations. 
After four years of toiling in the minors, he took his first head coaching job at Maryville {Tenn.), where he spent just one season, his only losing campaign as a head coach. A 10-21-1 record doesn't look too impressive, until you consider the fact that it was the school's most wins in a decade. 
Murphy then spent two seasons at California's Claremont-Mudd Scripps College, where he led the Stags to their first Southern California Intercollegiate Athletic Conference championship. · 
In between, he spent some time on the international scene, helping develop baseball in Australia and coaching the Holland national team to the European championship in the summer of 1987. 
He was at Claremont during the 1987 season when he heard that the Notre Dame job was available. Before the sun came up in California, he was on the phone to then-athletic director Gene Corrigan to express his interest in the "ob. 
The rest is Notre Dame baseball 

entertain other jobs, but I love the people here and there's a lot of tremendous things about this job." 
Murphy has worked tirelessly to build the Irish program into one of the nation's best. 
Among other tangible results, the stadium being built on the edge o campus is a sign of just where the program is headed. 
"It's a big thrill to go out to the stadium and see that," Murphy said. "It's definitely just another step. I'm just so happy that the University sees this program as something really special." 
Last season, the Irish proved how special the program has become. They were one game away from their first College World Series appearance since 1957, losing to Miami 5-1 in the championship of the Atlantic Regional. 
Now he wants to take it one step further. "If there's one theme now," he says, "it's to stay hungry." 
Murphy is the catalyst of that hunger, and he won't be satisfied until Notre Dame is the national champion. 
Sports Extra 
~FUTURE 

Road to MCC title, NCAA bid begins with Illinois 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

"I firmly believe that this team's best baseball is in front of them." 
With this statement, Notre Dame head coach Pat Murphy sets the tone for the remainder of the season. The road ahead for the Irish baseball team is a busy one which won't be easy. 
That road starts today when the Fighting Illini (16-8) visit Coveleski Stadium for Notre Dame's home opener· starting at 7 p.m. Last year, Illinois defeated the Irish in both meetings, and will provide a formidable foe this year, returning seven starters in the field and two on the mound. 
"Between Illinois, Indiana State, Purdue, Notre Dame and Wichita State, you've got the five best teams in the cold weather. They'll (Illinois) have a great hitting ball club, but I think our kids will be ready for it," said Murphy. 
Illinois is led by a duo of freshmen in the middle infield. Shortstop Josh Klimek (.342) and freshman second baseman Brian McClure (.318) are both draft picks who have paced the Illini this far. 
Preseason All-American third baseman Scott Spiezio who is the Illini's top home run hitter with five and the only member of the Illinois team to have started every game this season. Also pacing the Fighting Illini at the plate will be junior left fielder Forry Wells (.403) who is also the punter for the Illinois football team. 
On the mound for Illinois will most likely be senior Matt Arrandale (3-1, 
3.46 ERA) while Chris Michalak (5-0) will start the game for the Irish. 
Illinois has done well so far this season including in a season-opening three­game series against Miami in which the Illini won one. 
Over spring break, Illinois travelled to Hawaii to face Hawaii, Hawaii Pacific and Hawaii-Hila. The trip was successful with the Illini winning six of eight games on the trip including a three-game sweep of Hawaii-Hilo. 

Illinois is 3-3 in the Big Ten with two wins over Indiana on Saturday. The conference losses came against Iowa. The 111ini lost three out of four to Iowa. 

~pAS T 
Murphy surprised by quick start 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

It wasn't supposed to happen this quickly. 
After losing a top pitcher in Pat Leahy, a top hitter in Joe Binkiewicz, and two top leaders in Craig Counsell and Cory Mee, the Notre Dame baseball team was expected to need time to rebuild, but thanks to an experienced pitching staff, a talented crop of freshmen and depth at the plate, the Irish are right where they want to be. 
Using this unique combination of fresh faces and battle-tested veterans. the Irish have leapt to a 10-7 record in the opening weeks of the season. 
Even Notre Dame head coach Pat 
Murphy is surprised. 
"We've got six new position players on defense. If you would have told me we would have this good a ball club this early, I'd be shocked. We knew we'd be good at the end, and we will be good at the end," said Murphy. 
Opening the season with a trip to Arizona over the break, Notre Dame played six games against top teams and came away with two big wins. In the seven-day trip to Arizona, the Irish faced three teams then ranked in the top-ten and the major league California Angels. 
The Irish opened the trip with a 11-4 win over then No. 6 Arizona State, but fell in two straight contests to then eighth-ranked Arizona. In a two-game series against then 7th-ranked Wichita 

Illinois is just the beginning. After today, the Irish plunge into a full schedule of Midwestern Collegiate Conference games and non-conference midwestern opponents with hopes of climbing back into the top-25 and post­season play. 
"We have to fight. We have to fight expectations and we have to fight 


State, Notre Dame lost the first game 14­11, but won the second one 8-6 to finish the week the way it started. 
With a 2-3 record at the end of the week, some might think that it was a rough start for the Irish, but not Murphy. 
"It was a revelation that, 'Hey, you can beat two teams that are currently in the top-1 0 on the road at their place with no 
Match 8 Arizona St. W.11-4 Match 9 Arizona L, 6-1Q Match 10 Arizona L, 9-10 Match 10 Cal. Angels L, 1•10 March 12 Wichita St. PPOICOLD March 13 Wiahlta St. L. 11-14 Manlh 14 Wlc:hlta St. w, M March 19 K_,tucl<y W, Nl March 20 Kintueky L. 1M3 (11) March 21 Kentueky L, 7-8 March 21 K~ L. 6·9 Mai'Oh 27 Xavier (2} W6·0.18-.$ Man:tl28 Xav«tr (2) W 14-4,84 March 31 Indiana RAINOUT April3 Butler (2) L 3·1,W 3.0 Aprll4 Buller (2) W 17-9, 18·3 

Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy has had to observe closely his young lineup which at times features two sophomores and three freshmen. The young team has experienced some growing pains but managed a 10-7 mark this season. 
intruders. Expectations of people who are thinking we're supposed to win all our games because we've beaten two teams in the top-1 0. Baseball's not that kind of game. You don't win every game," said Murphy. 
The home slate includes games against Cleveland State, Toledo and Illinois­Chicago all of which the Irish were undefeated against last year. In addition, Notre Dame will face some tough competition from Indiana and the rest of the midwest including Indiana State and Purdue as well as Illinois. 
As for the MCC, the Irish have been picked by the coaches of that conference to win the title again this year. Notre Dame has already defeated Xavier and Butler in seven of eight games. 
The MCC Tournament, held at Coveleski Stadium on May 19-22, will mark Notre Dame's attempt for a fifth straight championship and a bid to the NCAA tournament. But winning it again won't be as easy as in the past. 
"We're definitely the best program, but it's not an easy chore." said Murphy. "People are trading information about you. Everybody's gunning to knock off the king pin." 
Winning the MCC tournament would mean an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament for the Irish. Last year, Notre Dame lost to Miami in the final game of the Atlantic Regional. 
After coming within one game of the College World Series last year, the Irish are looking to make it to Omaha at the end of this season. 

According to Murphy, it's a realistic goal. "We're inexperienced in a few spots, but some of these sophomores like DeSensi and Lisanti they've been through the wars. The freshmen have only added. They haven't been fearful at all. I think we'll have a pretty good chance." 
Apl118 April? Putdue Apr119,10,11 LASALLE t2/C)

April12 CLEVE. S. April14 llllnoia Aprl111.18 
Duquunt (~
Apr1120 TOLEOO(J April21 PURDUE (C) April24.25 Evanaville 
~ 
April27 VALPRAISO (2/C) 
"" 
~
April28 INDIANA ST. (C) 
April29 INDIANA 1ii 
.s:: 
0.
MayU DETROIT (2/JI<) g
May 10 lndiMISt. 'I: 
"' 
.c.
M{ty 11 UIC (JK) 
0
...,
~y12 North~ 
May13 Cltvo. St. (I) "'c May 14.15 DAYTON (2/JI<) 
..0"' "' 
May 17 Central Midllgan 0 
Horne 
practice.' It was a realization that this team can win a World Series because those are the teams that are going to be in the World Series at the end of the year. Those are the teams that we have to play to win the World Series," said Murphy. 
After break, the Irish ran into trouble in a four-game series at Kentucky. The Irish won the first game 7-6, but then dropped three straight to the Wildcats in a series in which nothing seemed to go right. The weekend in Kentucky also saw the then 16th-ranked Irish drop out of the polls after being ranked since the preseason. 
The next weekend, Notre Dame opened Midwestern Collegiate Conference play with a four-game sweep of Xavier in Cincinnati, Ohio. The ability to hit the long ball gave the Notre Dame the advantage as the Irish poked 14 home runs in the series. 
Last weekend, the Irish almost matched the feat winning three of four game against Butler. The pitching set the tempo of the games with only 15 Butler runners scoring all weekend. 
"There's no question in my mind that we play the toughest schedule for the first 13 games of the season than anyone in the country. To be where we're at right now, I'm not satisfied, but I'm surprised that we're this far ahead. We're going to stay hungry. If there's one theme right now, it's to stay hungry," said Murphy. 
Accent 

Tuesday, April 6, 1993 page 9 
Writing Right ' • 
Alderman to speak on Bi II of Rights 
By KENYA JOHNSON Accent Editor 
What exactly are the Bill of Rights and how do they affect everyday living? The answer to these questions, and more, was Ellen Alderman's quest when she co-wrote In Our Defense: The Bill ofRights in Action with author Caroline Kennedy. 
Alderman, a lawyer and au­thor, will speak at Notre Dame tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium to complete the "Thinking Anew" series spon­sored by Student Union Board (SUB). 
Dan Alesia, SUB Ideas and Is­sues commissioner, has been in charge of the series this aca­demic year. 
"We're trying to get students to understand different issues that may affect their lives," Alesia said. Originally, the committees tried to have each lecture relate to "election year issues," he said. 
"We had even hoped that AI Gore would come speak on the environment," he explained. 
The series has hosted speakers such as Nadine Strossen ("Sexual Harassment and Pornography") and Alex Kolowitz ("Children in Poverty"). Alderman's talk will focus on Constitutional rights and those people who have fought to keep them just. 
Alderman received her Bachelor of Arts degree from Cornell University. Before attending law school, she worked with an independent film company, Photosynthesis Productions. 
There she helped create and produce award-winning documentaries and educational films for, among others, National Geographic and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. 
In 1987, she received her 

degree from Columbia Univer­sity School of Law, where she was an editor of the Law Review, a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar and a James Kent Scholar. 
Her collaboration with Kennedy grew out of their law school friendship. For four years, the two travelled around the country talking with people who had fought for their Consti­tutional rights. 
In Our Defense was on the New York Times best-seller list for three months and is now used in classrooms across the country. It was also released in paperback from Avon Books. 
"The book is very interesting," said Alesia. "It focuses on legal matters and constitutional law, but in terms that the everyday reader can understand." 
Alesia described one chapter which discussed the ever-pre­sent issue of freedom of speech. 
"One time the Klu Klux Klan wanted to air a show over the radio," Alesia explained. "It was interesting to read how the law handled the situation." 
Alderman has spoken on the Bill of Rights at many forums, including the National Archives, the New York Public Library, and numerous universities. 
Currently, Aldermandand Kennedy are working on a new book on "the right to privacy" to be published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1994. 
"She's a very influential, in­triguing person," said Alesia. "This is the last of the series and I really hope people come out and listen. We just want to offer some new ideas and issues for students to think about, and take with them into their daily lives." 
The event will take place at 7:30p.m. and is free for all. 

Carroll prints Hunter Thompson's life story 
By MONICA YANT Accent Writer 

Sleeping with your subject is not the ost conventional way to write a Neither is doing drugs with him to verbal abuse. But then ain, E. Jean Carroll is not your nventional biographer, and her rmentor, famed Gonzo journalist Hunter Thompson, is a not your conventional 
As a result, Carroll's Hunter: The trange and Sauage Life of Hunter S. 
(Dutton, 341 pp., $25) breaks ew ground in the well-trod path of lebrit biographies. A former Miss USA and an Emmy-nominated for "Saturday Night Live," Carroll a twisted, impassioned account of ompson 's life that the good Doctor imself might have written. Full of half­aked trysts into fiction and fantasy, arroll's Hunter is Hunter at his best: A at evading God, the law and his ter judgment. For after 56 years of ng Hunter Thompson, judgment and 
cells are just two of many things he killed and buried. Along his long, strange trip, Thompson tl1rnn•><>l1 out of high school, taunted Air 
!ltJ!!!F! 
,. 

Hunter Thompson has his own table at the Woody Creek Tavern. 
Force superiors, married, divorced and fa­thered a son named Juan. He spent the better part of the 1960s and 1970s becoming an illustrious man of letters, earning fame and fortune while commit­ting multiple felonies on a "Rolling Stone" expense account. Through longer works like Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72 , as well as countless magazine pieces scrutinizing everything from the America's Cup race to television 
Book Review 
evangelism, Thompson has emerged as an American legend everyone talks about but no one really knows why. 
So it comes as no surprise that Carroll's account of Thompson's unaccountable life is written in the same style and flavor of the master hims e If. Call it Gonzo ­
supposedly French-Canadian for "shining path" -or call it just plain weird; those unfamiliar with Thompson's genius or ar­rogance should avoid Hunter at all costs. But fans of Thompson egregious' self-aggrandizement will find the book difficult to put down, as Carroll glides back and forth between her audacious experiences with the Doctor and the stories Thompson's friends, enemies and family members chose to recall. 
Like the man it chronicles, "Hunter" is far from predicable. We see a Thompson who shuns his comic strip alter ego, Doonesbury's Uncle Duke, as a cheap rip­off of his life's work. We learn that during his famed run for Aspen, Colo., sheriff, Thompson shaved off his hair just so he could refer to his crew-cut rival as his "long-haired opponent." And we hear endless medical testimony that, by all physical accounts, the Doctor's insatiable drug use should have killed him years ago. 
Carroll's interviewees (including an unusally complimentary Senator George McGovern) offer insightful remarks about Thompson's troubled life. Norman Mailer calls Thompson "a legend in successful self-abuse." And of his supposed immortality, Tom Robbins can only speculate: "I just assume his books will die, 
'------,;--;-e---:-:-;----~-:---:--:---:-;----:--' 
centuries." 
But the greatest testimony of all comes from the man himself. When he's not chasing Carroll's fictional biographer/ornithologist Laetitia Snap around the hot tub with a plate full of Dove Bars, Thompson can be downright forthright. At one point, he speaks of his motives for remaining a thorn in the side of the literary community: "Do you know what a burden -a terrible burden would 
fall on me if I was recognized as being the Great American writer?" he asks Carroll. 
But beyond Thompson's love for drugs and writing lies what appears to be a quest to overcome his fear of the unknown, and equal fear of learning its identity. In one of the final exchanges with Carroll (before Thompson threw her off his Aspen ranch), he offered this explanation for an existence that shows little signs of slowing down: 
HST: ''I've always longed for the thing I cannot name." EJC: "Oh yes! The famous thing you cannot name!" HST: That's it. I'm always 
looking. EJC: Well, you name is Hunter. HST: I've never found it. I don't 
know what it is. I don't know what to call it. But I long for it. And I always want it." 

page 10 The Observer Tuesday, April 6, 1993 
Baseball's opening day brings cheers and tears 
(AP)-There were cheers in Florida, where for once the baseball season didn't end on opening day, and there were tears in Cleveland for two pitchers killed in an accident last month. 
The start of the 1993 baseball season Monday also saw one controversial team owner back in command, and another who was out, sort of; new guidelines intended to speed up the game; and a new president throwing out the first ball. 
Two expansion teams played their first regular-season games. 
The Florida Marlins, in bright teal uniforms, won at home at Joe Robbie Stadium in Miami, beating Los Angeles 6-3 and setting ofT a celebration usually reserved for World Series wins. 
"I'll never forget it," said Florida native Charlie Hough, 45, the Marlins' winning pitcher. "All those years I watched baseball come in the spring and leave. Now, to play for a team that wasn't, in a sta­dium that wasn't. It's hard to describe the feeling." 
The Colorado Rockies, dressed in purple, lost their first game, 3-0, to the Mets in New York. 
The usual festivities found on opening day were missing in Cleveland. The Indians, their fans and all of baseball were still mourning the deaths of Steve Olin and Tim Crews in a boating accident in Florida dur­ing spring training. 
The Indians honored the pitchers' tearful families in cer­emonies before playing the New York Yankees. 
"You have to be thinking about the two pitchers that died," said Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. "I feel awful for their families and their team." 
While Steinbrenner returned to baseball this spring after serving a 2 1/2-year suspension for dealings with a gambler, Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott has been banned for a year for making racial and ethnic slurs. 
Schott wasn't allowed to watch the Reds' opener from the owner's box. Instead, she saw the Reds beat Montreal 2-1 from a private box upstairs at Riverfront Stadium, and had a taped message from her played on the scoreboard before the game. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson was outside the ballpark in Balti­more, leading about 300 people in a protest against baseball's minority hiring practices. 
Inside the stadium, President Clinton threw out the ceremo­nial first ball. Unlike President Bush, who bounced his opening toss last year at Baltimore, Clinton's pitch made it to the plate on the fly -albeit high and outside. 
Throughout the two major leagues, new guidelines went into e!Tect encouraging pitchers, catchers, hitters, managers, 
even  public  address  an­ 
nouncers,  to  speed  up  the  
game.  

The guidelines are intended to lop 20 minutes off a game, which averaged nearly 2 hours 50 minutes last year. But there are no penalties for dallying, and nobody seemed to be in a hurry on opening day. 
Mets 3, Rockies 0 
NEW YORK -The Colorado Rockies accomplished a lot of firsts in their major league debut Monday. Winning or scoring wasn't one of them. 
The Rockies lost their first game 3-0 to the New York Mets as Dwight Gooden pitched a four-hitter to spoil Don Baylor's first game as manager. 
Gooden, only 10-13 last sea­son while making a comeback from shoulder surgery, retired 17 straight batters before Dante Bichette singled with one out in the ninth. He walked one and struck out four en route to the Mets' first opening-day shutout since beating Steve Carlton and Philadelphia, 2-0, in 1983. 
Bobby Bonilla, who batted only .214 at home last season, led otT the fifth with a homer to right ofT Nied and Eddie Murray added an RBI single otT the left­field wall in the sixth against Butch Henry. 
Reds 2, Expos 1 
CINCINNATI -Jose Rijo nearly unhittable Monday as the Cincinnati Reds ended an off­season of scandal with an opening day win. 
The largest regular-season crowd in Riverfront Stadium history -and one banished owner -watched Rijo allow five hits in eight scoreless in­nings for a 2-1 victory over the Montreal Expos. 
He allowed just four singles and a triple and retired 14 out of 15 batters over one stretch. 
Montreal's Dennis Martinez was almost as impressive, but wound up losing because he hung a pitch to Chris Sabo and gave up -of all things -an infield single to Kevin Mitchell. 
The way Rijo was pitching, it was plenty. The right-hander struck out five and didn't walk a batter. 
Rangers 7, Orioles 4 
BALTIMORE -Rick Sutcliffe had the same problem as President Clinton on Monday. 


Clinton had control trouble with the season's ceremonial first pitch, and Sutcliffe's loca­tion wasn't any better. Juan Gonzalez and Dean Palmer both homered twice, leading the Texas Rangers over the Baltimore Orioles 7-4. 
Craig Lefferts, who spent the last part of the 1992 season with Baltimore, got the victory by allowing four runs and seven hits in six innings. He struck out seven. 
Yankees 9, Indians 1 
CLEVELAND -Jimmy Key won it for New York, limiting the Indians to one run and three hits in eight innings. 
Key improved to 4-0 in four career opening-day starts -the previous three for Toronto. The 31-year-old left-bander walked none, struck out three and retired 17 of the last 18 batters he faced, getting otT to a strong start in the first year of his four­year contract with the Yankees. 
Danny Tartabull, Nokes and Pat Kelly homered for the Yan­kees, who broke the game open with a five-run sixth. Kelly and Nokes each had three RBis. 
Loser Charles Nagy lasted 5 2­3 innings, giving up seven runs and 11 hits. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SUMMER JOBS  Interested in extra $$$ -need  SPACIOUS 6, 2 & 1 BDRM  81 Kawasaki KZ440  
NOTICES  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  student to gather and xerox articles in library. Call Jack at 273-2123.  HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. GREAT RATES! AVAIL  New clutch,brakes,battery. Runs great. $350 or best.  ADOPTION: THE GIFT OF LOVE -Give yourself, your baby and us a  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  NOW,SUMMER & FALL272-6306  288-1027 Tom  brighter future! We are a loving,  
TYPING 256·6657  NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373.  FOR RENT  Furnished four bedroom OAKHILL  Big Red Cadillac  secure, Catholic, Caucasian couple. Call Patti & Greg, Collect: (616)  
Need someone to do your typing?  CONDO for summer rental. Call  79 DeVille,425V8,PS,PB,PW,  629-9037  
Call me. $1 per page. Will pick up &  Four bedroom furnished Oakhill  Amy or Doug at 614·237 -1370 for  New tires,shocks. Runs  
deliver. Call Linda: 284·6445 work  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Condo open for summer rental.  info.  great, reliable. $900 or best.  
277-9120 home.  Eam $2,000+/month +world travel  Rent negotiable. Call Amy or Doug  288-1027 Tom  
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean,  @ 614-237-1370 for info.  Dave and Monica­ 
etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career  SUMMER SUBLET­ Turtle  MOVING OFF-CAMPUS????  The saga continues.  
Dissertations, Theses,  employment available. No  Creek townhouse.  DESK AND DRAWERS for sale for  
Term Papers  experience necessary. For  SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4  Mike 277 9139  sale for sale for sale  
Word Works Typing Service  employment program call  bdrms, close to campus, safe  GOOD CONDITION and  
277-7406  1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584.  neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all  SUMMER SUBLET: Sale, walk. dist,  inexpensive 271-1443 Steve  To the 5 guys from Carroii­ 
Tickets on sale now for the Farley Hall Players' production of  INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT­Make money teaching basic conversational English abroad.  utilities. Call Monica 232-2794. 3 BDRM. HOUSE, FULL  furnshd, $200/mo 273-9689 ,, TICKETS IFOR SALE ._____________. Are you flying home to Florida after  Thanx for a great game of basketball! -the 5 blondes (well, 4 blondes and 1?)  
ILOST & FOUND I  Japan and Taiwan. Make $2,000­$4,000+ per month. Many provide room & board + other benefits! No  BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS. FROM ND. 234-1883.  ALLSTATE CALL ME TO SEE IF YOU  the semester? If so, we might be willing to buy your return ticket from you  CONGRATULATIONS! (you knew I had to put this in!)  
previous training or teaching  2 BDRM, 2 BATH, OAKHILL  QUALIFY FOR ANY OF THESE  f need 2 return flights from Tampa  
LOST· MEN'S SILVER  certificate required. For International  CONDO FOR 93-94 SCHOOL  COST-CUTTING DISCOUNTS:  or Sarasota to South Bend or  
CLADDAUGH RING. LOST  Employment program, call the  YEAR. CALL MICHELLE AT 277­ Chicago on May 23  Are you interested in living in  
ON 3125/93. ENORMOUS  International Employment Group:  4155.  . GOOD STUDENT  Call me before you make  DISMAS HOUSE next fall??? See  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF  (206) 632-1146 ext J5584.  . PREFERRED DRIVER  reservations  Kathy Royer in the CSC or call Jon  
FOUND PLEASE CALL  . ECONOMY CAR  If you've already made reservations,  @ 271-1938.  
CHRIS @ 4452. THANKS..  BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES  . AIRBAG  call if your return flight is  
Need a ride to Norfolk, VA  FOR ND/SMC PARENTS.  . ANTI-LOCK BRAKES  changeable or you happen to have  
area for Easter break. Will help pay  219-291-7153.  made them for May 23  
Missing as of 3127  !orgas.  JOHN DAVENPORT,ChFC  Rich, 631-5370  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  
Black wallet. If found call x1757  Call Christina at x4241  Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D, R, R, 2  289-1993  Jet there anytime for only $169 from  
baths. Located College Park  One way airline ticket from  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  
FOUND: Silver and mother-of­ If anyone is planning on working in  Condos. Comer of Bulla &  OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  S. Bend to Seattle, May 17th.  (when available) with AIRHITCH!  
pearl earring between C.S.C.  Hilton Head this summer and needs  Ironwood. Must be responsible  $200.00 or best offer.  (Reported in Let's Go! & NY  
and Seigfreid. Call Bill at  roommates to help pay for rent, call  tenat $595 permo or Sale &65,900.  85 Volks Vanagon Van 1 03,000  Mary 631-5194  Times.) AIRHITCH (r)  
4-1307.  Kelly @4121.  Send info to PO Box 4075 South  miles, most highway, blue w/grey  212-864-2000.  
Bend IN 46634.  pinstripe, new battery, good tires.  HelpiHelpiHelp! I need grad tickets!  
LOST: GOLD CLADDAUGH RING.  to SUBLEASE your house/apt. for  3500 or best offer 289-2353.  If you have extra call Joe @ 277­ 
OF EXTREME SENTIMENTAL  SUMMER:3-5 people,pref. near  3-5 PERSON FURNISHED  4273.  
VALUE. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL  campus-call Samx4842  HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM,  ND Ski Team T-Shirts  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
DINAMARIE "DIDI" GARCIA  WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL,  Only $1011 Call John at x1160  I have a huge family & they all  in LaFortune Student Center  
X4889, 419 SIEGFRIED HALL  Driver needed in May to Hartford  PRIME LOCATION.  helped pay for ND. Please! I need  QUALITY COPIES  
THANKS.  CT area, our car, expenses paid,  233-9947.  One room at the Marriott available  extra grad tix!l Deanna @2476  as low as 3¢ each  
insured. Call Mr. Bishop 1-324-4898  for Sat. nile, May 15.  OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK  
Female '92 grad looking for  Call Brian x1069.  PLEASE!If  
LOST: Sunday, April 4  I  roommate(s) in Chgo area. Prefer  Need Grad nx  
at Stepan fields -a pair  PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA  western suburbs. Open to ideas.  Selling: GT timberline mtn.  Brian 273-0967  
of black sunglasses w/  HIRING DRIVERS PART TIME  Monica 708-961-3533 wk: 708­ bk w/ upgrades. less than  To JaReegs, JaPat, JaPete, JaTom,  
reflective lenses and ear clips. If found, please call  THROUGH FINALS WEEK VERY FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES  850-4333  yr old. $350 or b/o call jon I. info X2924  PERSONAL  JaDom: One word guys:  
Matt at 273-2518  AVERAGES $8/hr and up  IMMEDIATE occupancy ,  FIRMI  
Call 271-1177 or stop by 54533  1 bdrm apt. incl. walk thru bath  Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal  Love-The Knott Girls  
WANTED  Terrace Lane I  and closet, garage, washer and dryer. 273-9392  MAC SE/20 w/ lmagewritter II $ 850 OBO Call 271-1507  Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN  
46615, or calf Pager #282-7042.  


--------.~---------------------------------------------------­

Results of uoe mdilloa 
Frlday'a Bookatore Reaulta Beef & Co. def. You Better Withdraw Puryi, 21-13 

Intercollegiate Invitational 5 Guys No D def. Team Zip, 21-13 
lrish ... Down the Reid Let's Go def. The 5 Cause We're Coming, 23-21 Elements, 21-10 Mason Mike and His Bricklaying Team 167 def. Team 515,21-11Track Meet 
MEN 
Sexual Frustration Ill def. The Nightmare Apprentices def. While HEr Loyal "Sons", 21 -NO's Most Wanted def. Four and e HIGH JUMP: 1. Van Reed, Vincennes, 7' 1 15 Halfman, 21-95, 21-73/4"; 4. Brian Headrick, Notre Dame, 6' a·. 

Bucket of Aahzl def. 5 Guys Who Saw White Shadow def. New Jag Swine, Forfeit Jamin'Jasus & the Air Apostles def. 5 Men 400 M HURDLES: 1. Russ Pernus, Chuck ... , 21-17 The More We Win The Harder It Gets def. 

Down, 21-2 Shuck, Jive & Drive def. Boxin' Out & DrMn' Fuzzy & the Carpet def. 5 Girls with Easy ... , Taem 355,21-16Indiana, 52.3 sec.; 5. Chris Lilly, Notre 
Dame, 55.1. In, 21-13 
21-9

200 METERS: 1. Tony Tate, Indiana St., 
In It To Win It def. Cop an Attitude, 21-5 Sunday'• Results

Jack & 4 Other Guys Who Get It In The Box def. 4 Jim town Jimmies & A Guy From Kind Birds def. Squidgy and the Funky Rhythum & Darts def. Team 253,21-1020.96sec. 
100 METERS: 1. Jermaine Chaney, Bremen. 21-17 Bunch, 21-12 Pass Bear Nuts II def. Balls of Steel, 23-21 Indiana, 10.61 sec. 
The Leftovers def. 4 Milwaukee's & a Ful Body Heeb def. Screaming Otters, Your Sister and a Pack of Wolves def. 

400 METERS: 1. Jon Uecker, Indianapolis, ForfeitAnthony Travel, 21-19 Beast, 21-447.83sec. 
Doohwl def. How's Your Mule?, 21-8 Driveby Shooting def. We Can Beat Detroit Post Up, Wide Open, Slam It def. Danied-­

800 METERS: 1. Darrin Wilcoxon, Purdue, Beef & Co. def. Patty O'Hara, Jime Jones, Mercy, 21-17 Nappy, 21-5 1:50.1 min. 
Chuck Manson & Other Guys Who Think Afrodeeziacs def. Repeat otfender, 21-6 Top Five Guys... Academics def. Don~ 1500 METERS: 1. Darrell Hughes, They Are The Messiah, 21-8 Team Jonny Cat def. My Girlfriend's Back Take a Chance With a Hernia, 21-16 Indiana, 3:56.2 min.; 6. Erik Fasano, Notre & I'm Gonna Be in Trouble, 21-12 Ramona's Car Wash def. Irritated Balzacs, 
We May Not /JJways Win, But We'll Kick... 5000 METERS: 1. Kent Baker, Wabash, Dame, 4:00.9. 
def. 5 Blondes Who Really Know How to 5 Guys Who Uke to Pound it Down Low 21-17 Score, 2t-18 def. Thanks J.B ... We're Better Now, 21-9 Doctor Suess & the Steweys def. First 
14:51.30 min.; 3. Joe Dunlop, Notre Dame, Alien's Unfrozen Rlipino Ombudsmen def. The Naked Goat Herders def. Plutonic Round Dream Team, 21-5 
14:59.13. 
Hickies, 21-2 Blackjack def. The Latex FIVe, 21-10

The Pentatonks, Forfeit Dream Weavers def. No Lard Burritos Swi & The Family Stone def. 4 Short White 10,000 METERS: 1. Nate Knuth, Notre Team 282 def. Fab and the FourDame, 31:18.48 min.; 5. Derek Martisus, Do def. DaBelles, 21-9 Girls & 1 Thai Chick, 21-16 Probationers, 21-8Notre Dame, 31:46.28. 
Aero-Heads def. Hogan's Heroes, 21-19 Too Fresh Crew def. Big Wally Shoots & Jim With Stupid def. Duff Bear Garden 110M HURDLES: 1. Glenn Terry, Indiana, Scores, 21-16 National Team, 25-23Russo's Castle Point All-Stars def. Soul's 14.01 sec.; 6. Chris Lilly, Notre Dame, Train, 21-10 Peanut Slickers def. 5 Guys Who Dream of A Squirrel & His 4 Nuts def. We're the Truth 

14.92. Vivacious Ballhandlers def. Rush to Being As Good As Boko, 21-16 & You Can' Handle Us, 21-3 4 x 100 M RELAY: 1. Indiana, 40.73 sec. 
Excellence, 21-15 When You Play With Us You Gotte Be 4 Guys with a Nasty Rush def. Mike 4 x 400 M RELAY: 1. Purdue, 3:15.2 min. 
DuBay's Plunge Cheez, 21-16 
5 Trumpets That Really Blow def. As God Hard to Shoot def. Jachdaws Love My Big

3000 M STEEPLECHASE: 1. John Cowan, We Wanna Be, 21-9 Sphinx of Quartz, 21-12 Sexual Frustration Ill def. 5 Guys Who Notre Dame, 9:10.99 min.; 2. Derek Seiling, Shocked the Hell Outa Chelsea, 21-12
Playing Loafty def. Smokin Bats, Forfeit McCounseller & The Grass Cutters def, 5 

Notre Dame, 9:17.24; 5. Mike Smedley, Deadly Venoms, 21-5 Victoria's Real Secret & Thad def. 
Tequilla White Lightening def. The ChampNotre Dame, 9:30.30. 

& His Cut Men, 21-3 Whatever def. Guess Who's the Monkey Horizontally Bound, 21-16LONG JUMP: 1. Darrell Jackson, Ball St., 
Thundering Hard def. We Bombed the Woody & 4 Other Stiffs def. Saved by the Pale Riders def. 5 Guys Who've Never ... , 24' 5 3/4"; 5. Tom Mescall, Notre Dame, 

World Trade Center & You're Next, 21-19 Beii,2Hl 21-18
22' 5 3/4". 
5 Guys Who Wanna Be Uke Shag def. What? 7 Dollars for This def. 5 Guys Who Rahh Balls II def The Vertically Challenged, TRIPLE JUMP: 1. Darrell Jackson, Ball St., 

We're Not Players But We Do Uke To Hava Miss Bush, 21-16 21-16
48' 51/'Z'. 
Fun, 21-12 Corby's def. The Infamous El Guapo & The We Uke it Slow and Easy def. Road Kill, SHOT PUT: 1. Chris Owens, Indiana St., 57' 3/4". 
We Look Good Naked def. Buffy & the 4 Gringos, 21-9 21-5 Basketslayers, 21-11 
Men Who Love Themselves def. The Back to Sheila-Bell def. Jam min' Jesus &DISCUS: 1. Gregg Hart, Indiana, 1n' 6". HAMMER THROW: 1. Matt Quinn, Indiana 

Enftamed Slimarfkin def. We're Out 01 The Mystical Potato Head Groove Thing, 21-12 The Air Apostles, 21-18 Closet & Ready To Play, 21-10 The Revenge og the Suburbans def. Cip Joint Courtfeasors def. Now Kreskin Will 
St., 188' a·. POLE VAULT: 1. Mark Buse, Indiana, 17' 
Mr. & Mrs. Ross & 3 Other Guys Who Can' and the Gods og Hellfire, 25-23 Be Back, 21-6 Stand the Ross Twins def. Things That Silk Igloos II def. We Know Gotti, 21-19 Kelly Kepowski is Our Inspiration, 21-13
4 1/2". 
Doze,21-19 No Clue def. 5 Ones, 21-7 Peace in the Gambia def. Blow Me (e JAVELIN: 1. Dart Philpott, Purdue, 193'1". 
Team 253 def. Dan, Dave & 3 Other Guys The Blitzkreig def. Jack in the Box, 21-12 Kiss), 21-15 

WOMEN 
Who Couldn' Win the Decathalon, 21-13 Dime-Dime-Nickel-Dollar def. Joe, John, Riverbottom Mightmare Shootout def. 
100 METERS: 1. Holli Hyche, Indiana St., 
Public Hair on Esbians, 21-17 

The Penetrators def. We Beat Ourselves, Malik, Brooks & 1 Other Guy Who Should 21-5 Enter the Draft, 21-14 Wilt Chamberlain def. Great Pretenders, 11.36sec. 
400 METERS: 1. Nancy Goldman, 
21-14
The Latex Five def. The Pipeplayers, 21-7 Sexual Chocolate def. The Boss, 21-9 The Screaming Vikings def. Dick Doves Indiana, 56.01 sec. 

4 Guys Who Never Played Bookstore & Me Ul of the Ultra Violence def. The def. Forfeit, 21-10 Pertetonks, 21-11 800 METERS: 1. Michelle Faulkner, Byrosenthal, 21-14 Indianapolis, 2:13.25 min.; 5. Kala The Bus Drivers def. Simpson Skimmers, 
Pork: The Other White Meat def. John Bughaus def. Phoxes, Forfeit Cocktozan, Jack Meltofl & 3 Others with 6 What...7 Dollars for This def. Team 448, 21-7Soulnare, Notre Dame, 2:17.90. 
1500 METERS: 1. Tana Dahman, Indiana Fingers on Their Right Hand, 21-14 21-16 5 Guys Who Say 'Out Wllh Delucia" def. 5 St., 4:38.06 min.; 2. Emily Husted, Notre Jobless Jurists, 21-6 
New Jag Swing def. The Land Sharks Big Head Todd def. Thrust, 21-11 Eleven def. Am I Supposed to Know These Dame, 4:39.95; 5. Kristen Dudas, Notre 

The Infamous El Guapo & The 4 Gringoes Baa Wa Boys def. Salem, 21-10 

Dame, 4:51.32. 
Who Are Falling def. Ghetto Boys, 21-15 H-A-R-D-K-0-Z-E def. Pork:The Other People, 21-9 White Meat, 21-13 Shuck, Jive & Drive def. Crash & Burn, 21 ­3000 METERS: 1. Dabbl Ramseyer, Repeat otfender def. Sons of Kramer, 21­We're Just Not That Good def. The 7Indiana St., 9:52.24 min.; 2. Kristi Kramer, 18 Buffalos, 21-9 The Running Revs def. 5 Guys Who WantNotre Dame, 10:01.29; 3. Eva Flood, Notre 
Something Wicked This Way Comes def. Odd Lots Ill, 21-9 Revenge of the chickenheads def. To Know If..., 21-8 Dame, 10:02.19. 
5000 METERS: 1. Debbi Ramseyer, Excellent R.A's, 21-10 5 Guys Notre Dame Could Beat def. 
Captain Buso & His 4 Oarsman def. Security Beat, forfeit Time to Fly Ill def. We Just Uke To Watch, Fishkillers IV, 21-13 Indiana St., 17:08.65 min.; 4. Usa Gorski, 
Notre Dame, 17:45.39. 
Forfeit 5 Six Foot White Guys def. 5 Guys From 
Ugly Kid Joes def. Easy Spirits, 21-14 Band Who Really Blow, 21-4 1 0,000 METERS: 1. Kristie Wood, Ball St., 

Woodpeckas .def. Automatic Weapons, 23­Doug Minnich's Team def. White Women36:42.48 min.; 3. Maureen Kelly, 37:45.12. 5 Girls Who Suck def. Joey Buttafuco & 4 

21 Guys, 21-12100M HURDLES: 1. Da!jul Claiborne, Ball Who Can' Even Pass Gas, 21-8 
The Grauchos def. Group Sax We're So Bad Our Best Player is Asian def. 

St., 14.25 sec. 
5 Guys Even Digger Phelps Wouldn'Jordan, Pippen, Drexer def. Tequiila The 5-Pack, 21-13400 M HURDLES: 1. Cheryl Rowe, Recruit def. Team Stumft, 21-14 

Mockingbird Ever Heard of Us? def. We May Not Be
Purdue, 1 :02.8 sec. 
5 Guys Who Have Never Seem Malcolm Coney Island Whitefish def. The Attitude, Able to Play ... , 21-18 4 x 100 M RELAY: 1. Indiana, 45.92 sec. 

def. Subconscious Troubadours, 21-14

21-5 We Want a Peioe of Gum def. Sexual 
4 x 400 M RELAY: 1. Purdue, 3:53.34 min. 
Quigley def. Shamma-Lamma-Ding-Dong,Irritated Balzacs def. The Aintbones Chocolate, 21-16HIGH JUMP: 1. Corissa Yasen, Purdue, 5' 21-18

Ball Grabbers def. Captain Ogre & 2 1/2 Guys Who'll Make You Think def. 4 6 1/2"; 4. Susan Maher, Notre Dame, 5' 3". 

Saturday'• Reaulta Shooting Seamen, 21-4LONG JUMP: 1. Regina Frye, Indiana, 19' Normal Guys and One Crazy Cenuck, 21-13

Bungecungus def. Plaid, 21-3 Natural White def. Illegal Entry, 21-12 

9 1/2". 
I Want The Ball def. Special Olympics 
Smooth Momentum def. Something Commons Club def. Alcoholics 
Dream Team, 21-12Wicked This Way Comes 2, 21-4 Synonomous, 21-12 Mo'Bettes Ribs def. The FIVe Whoppers,

Movement is Painful def. Ice-T, Mark Shades of Funk def. Nick Got Chubby, For 
21-12McGrath and 3 Other Cop Killers, 21-14 Nick Ate Often, 21-10 Corby's II def. The Penetrators, 21-6 

Bigbooblah, andArmy Guy & The Young Jack &Four Other Guys Who Get In The 
Multiple Scoregasms def. 5 Guys From aCaptain def. Severe Chafing Ill: There Is No Box def. Farley's Fellas, 21-17 Dusty, 21-3

Cure, 21-10 The Good, The Bad, and The Laundry def 
Amy Rsher, Malik Russell & ... def 4 Social Larry, Larry, Larry, Larry & Hey I'm Not Aroused Dogs, 21-16 Drinker, 21-3 

Larry def. B.P. R.A Hoes II, 21-14 The Dominant Factors def. 5 Chicks From 
World Trade Center def. The Commons. 

Notre Dame Apartments 
2 bedroom Apts. 

Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Apartments Available at 
$250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 

• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 

• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping 

• 
Fenced Parking 



Come see the changes we have maile. You won't be disappointed!
For mora info call: 
232-8256 

21-9 Jimmy Chipwood ... def. A Million to One, 21-12 Yo Mama's Cookies def. Enlarged to Show Texture, 21-5 Irish Down The Reid Let's Go def. Team 346, 21-15 Sloppy Code def. White Men Can~ Pray, 21-7 
Princess Leia def. Unus, 21-10 
5 Guys Who Taka it to the Hole def. Chilly's Special Fantasy, 21-19 When This Side is Empty def. Hitesh & Prophets of Rage, 21-17 Who Loves You & Who Do You Love def. The 1993 Midwest All-American, 21-3 Victims of Gravity def. Cleveland Steamers, 21-3 How Are Ya, Bob? def. Bomb Squad & Ted Stinson, 21-8 Fr. Joe Ross, CSC Priest def. Congrats on your engagement, 21-16 The Sots def, Kevin, Ray & 3 Squirrels, 21­11 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy def. Kiss Vramus Goodbye, 21-8 No PAin def. Four Jugglers &A Guy Who Ukes Nuts, 21-12 Hot Fudge: As Sticky As They Wanna Be def. Ne Pret, 21-12 Hot Grits A Flyin' def. The Shooting 
Missionaries, 21-4 Muzza def. Damage Inc., 21-18 Turkish Prisoners def. The Cisco Kids 
MLB STANDINGS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
East Dlvlalon  
W  L  Pet  GB  
Florida  1  0  1.000  - 
New York  1  0  1.000  - 
· Philadelphia  1  0  1.000  - 
Pittsburgh St. Louis  0 0  0 0  .000 .000  1/2 112  
Chicago  0  1  .000  1  
Montreal  0  1  .000  1  
West Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Atlanta  1  0  1.000  - 
Cincinnati  1  0  1.000  - 
San Diego  0  0  .000  1/2  
San Francisco  0  0  .000  1/2  
Colorado  0  1  .000  1  
Houston  0  1  .000  1  
Los Angeles  0  1  .000  1  

Monday's Games Cincinnati 2, Montreal 1 Rorida 6, Los Angeles 3 New York 3, Colorado 0 Atlanta 1, Chicago 0 Philadelphia 3, Houston 1 
Tueaday'a Gamea Atlanta (Smoltz 15-12) at Chicago (Guzman 18-11 ), 2:20 p.m. Los Angeles (A.Martinez 8-11) at Aorida (Armstrong 8-15), 7:35p.m. San Diego (Benes 13-14) at Pittsburgh (Wakefield 8-1), 7:35p.m. Philadelphia (Schilling 14-11) et Houston (Swindell12-8), 8:05p.m. 
San Francisco (Burkett 13-9) at St. Louis (Tewksbury 18-5), 8:35p.m. Wedneaday'a Gamea 
Colorado at New York, 1:40 p.m. Atlanta at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. Los Angeles at Florida, 7:35 p.m. Montreal at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Houston, 8:05p.m. San Francisco at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
Thursday'• Gamea Montreal at Cincinnati, 12:35 p.m. San Francisco at St. Louis, 1 :35 p.m. San Diego at Pittsburgh, 3:05 p.m. Los Angeles at Atlanta, 7:40p.m. 
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 
4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
BORN YESTERDAY lPG) 
5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
POINT OF No RETURN (R) 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 

GREEI<S & CLUBS· 
RAISE A COOL 
•1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI PLUS $1000 FOR TilE MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. And aFREE IGLOO COOLER ifyou qualify. Call 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 

~----------~--~--~­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, April 6, 1993 
"Quality without compromise" ••c:::J CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 0 We Have New Options. We Can Save You Money. Convenient Mfordable Leases 9 Month-10 Month-12 Month Leases Regardless of the stage you are at in your search for Off-Campus Housing-Yo~ owe yourself a visit to our office. Call272-l44l Campus View Apartments Built for the College Lifestyle  



Tuesday, April 6, 1993 The Observer page 13 
Michigan runs out of time (outs), falls to UNC 77-71 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -North Carolina capitalized on a last­second blunder by Michigan and gave Dean Smith his sec­ond national championship with a 77-71 victory Monday night. 
The two titles in Smith's 32 years at North Carolina both came at the Superdome, and this one didn't have to wait for a last-minute jumper by Michael Jordan. That 1982 game also ended on a blunder -by Georgetown. 
The Tar Heels won with a powerful inside game of Eric Montross and the 3-point shooting of Donald Williams as Michigan's Fab Five lost in the title game for the second con­secutive year. 
Smith becomes the fourth ac­tive coach to win two national championships. Indiana's Bob Knight has won three, while Louisville's Denny Crum and Mike Krzyzewski of Duke have each won two. Only John Wooden with 10 at UCLA, Adolph Rupp of Kentucky with four and Knight have won more than Smith, who was making his ninth appearance in a Final Four. 
The Tar Heels (34-4) didn't wrap up the victory until Chris Webber, who had scored 23 points and grabbed 11 re­bounds, made the mistake of calling a timeout the Wolverines didn't have. 
North Carolina was leading 73-71 when Pat Sullivan missed the second of two free throws with 20 seconds left. Webber grabbed the rebound, charged up court and stopped in front of his bench with 11 seconds left to call a timeout. The Wolverines had already used their allotted three and a technical foul was called. 
Williams. who finished with 25 points, made both free throws on the technical and he added two more when he was fouled on the ensuing possession for the final margin. 
When the buzzer sounded the Tar Heels charged the court and mobbed Smith, the second­winningest coach of all time who had always been maligned for his Final Four failures. 
The Tar Heels got the lead for good when Derrick Phelps scored on a layup with 3:12 left for a 68-67 lead. Jimmy King of Michigan threw up an air ball from 3-point range and the Tar Heels extended the lead to three when George Lynch scored in the lane with 2:10 left. Montross, who had 16 points. dunked with one minute left and it was the Tar Heels by six. 



Ray Jackson's jumper with 47 seconds left brought Michigan within three again. An unforced turnover gave the ball back to the Wolverines and Webber scored on a rebound with 36 seconds left. Those were Michigan's final points for a season in which it went 31-5, but failed again in the final game. 
Williams, the Tar Heels' only legitimate perimeter threat, had five 3-pointers in the semi­final win over Kansas and he matched that against Michigan in 11 attempts. 
While Williams was scoring outside, Montross was occupy­ing most of the Michigan front­court inside. That allowed Lynch to come up with 12 points and 10 rebounds, and allowed Williams to get off the long jumpers. 
Michigan had taken a 67-63 lead with 4:13 left on a jumper by King, but Williams hit a 3­pointer to bring the Tar Heels within one and set the stage for 10-4 run that closed the game. 
King had 15 points for Michi­gan, while 1alen Rose added 12. 
Smith's NCAA record im­proved to 55-23, the most tournament victories for a coach; Fisher dropped to a still­amazing 17-3. He led the Wolverines to the national championship as the interim head coach in 1989. 
Michigan finished 5 for 15 from 3-point range. 
Michigan's one-game run without any 3-pointers ended early, and three long jumpers on as many possessions started the Wolverines on the way to a 23-13lead with 11:33 left in the half. Reserve Rob Pelinka hit two 3s to start the 19-4 run and Rose followed with another as Michigan scored 11 straight points. 
North Carolina tied at 25 when Williams' first 3-pointer capped the 12-2 run with 8:01 left. 
(AP)-"This hurts. This hurts for everyone," said Fisher, whose team lost for the second straight year in the NCAA title game. "It's hard enough when you lose a championship game. It cuts to the quick when it happens the way it happened." 
Webber made his fmal basket on a follow shot -his fifth of­fensive rebound -with 36 sec­onds remaining. That brought Michigan within 72-71. 
Pat Sullivan of North Carolina was fouled with 20 seconds left. He made the first and missed the second, and Webber grabbed the rebound. 
"There was 20 seconds left and I started dribbling the ball. We were down by two. I get it 


01(}1'{•. UO'fl VIllAr 7 

Plan for 
GRADUATE SCHOOL! 
COMil TO TIIH WORKSIIOI' 
WEDNESDAY, AJllUL 7 4:15 -5:45pm 

DOOLEY ROOM/LArORTUNE 
• 
Slralegies in selecling ami applying to graduale schools 

• 
Graduale Record Exam informalion 

• 
Graduate Assistantships ami Pdlowships 



Fans celebrating back in Chapel Hill 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP) -An estimated 6,000 students and other fans screamed away Monday night watching North Carolina win the NCAA cham­pionhip, then streamed into the streets for what was expected to be an all-night party. 
"We're No. 1. There is no other," said Bobby Hooper, of Reidsville, N.C. "They've proven to be the best team out of all of them." 
For Terry Woodley of Rocky Mount, the victory meant some payback when he returns to a job full of Wolverine fans. 
"This is great," he said. "I work at a place with nothing but Big Ten Fans. All I hear about is the Fab Five. We're going to rub it in at work to­morrow." 
The celebration drew fans from all over. 

on our side of the court. I picked up my dribble and called a timeout," Webber said. "Whatever I did, that's what was going through my head." 
His teammates were quick to defend Webber. 
"Everything happened so fast, I think that when things happen so fast you get caught up in the moment," guard Jalen Rose said. "That play didn't cost us the game. If it weren't for the play of Chris Webber we wouldn't be here. So he doesn't have anything to be ashamed of." 
Rob Pelinka concurred. 

"He got trapped in the corner and he did the smart thing, he called a timeout. It just hap­
"I came here because it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," said Chuck Cody, a Campbell University student from Covington, Va., who was in Carmichael Auditorium as the Tar Heels sealed a 77-71 victory over Michigan. 
"I came all the way from Lynchburg, Va. to see this," echoed Chris Parker. "UNC is my team." 
Carmichael Auditorium, where North Carolina played before moving to the larger Dean Smith Activity Center, was festooned with streamers of toilet paper in white and Carolina blue as fans watched the game on a big screen tele­vision. 
"In '82, I was in New Orleans, but after the game there was no party. All the Carolina fans just went home," said Mike Thornbury, a UNC alumnus pened that we didn't have any," Pelinka said. "It's absolutely not Chris' fault at all. 
"Without Chris Webber, we don't beat Coastal Carolina, and we're not as good as we are. So I really don't feel like talking about that play anymore. I just think it was completely insignif­icant." 
Webber was clearly upset. From the time he left the court until the time he reached the locker room, he walked with his head down. He pushed aside one of the television cam­eramen walking in his path. 
Webber called last year's loss to Duke in the championship game the lowest point in his life. 
from Cary, N.C. ~I wanted to be here this year." 
Carolina won its only other NCAA title under Smith in New Orleans 11 years ago. 
Even before the outcome was decided this time, the university and city officials prepared for Monday night's reaction. 
Close to 100 officers from Chapel Hill, Carrboro and the university police department, along with Orange County Sh­eriffs deputies, were to be on hand to guard against any trouble. 
Police asked bars not to serve drinks in bottles, spokeswoman Jane Cousins said. 
Law enforcement agencies in Chapel Hill have come to learn that a key feature of the town's celebration of sports triumphs is a desire to paint the town blue in the Tar Heels colors. 


page 14 The Observer Tuesday, April 6, 1993 
Saint Mary's track blanked by Manchester SPORTS BRIEFS 

Hoops 
continued from page 16 

point lead with just seconds remaining. Brown was smart enough not to call time out. In­stead, he threw the ball directly into the hands of North Carolina's James Worthy. It's called eliminating the middle man. 
That was the first champi­onship for Tar Heels' coach Dean Smith. He got his second Monday night, and the fluke la­bel was strengthened rather than broken. 
But a championship ring can 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
outstanding changeup. 

"My performance was defi­nitely better in the last game," said Alford "We had great de­fense to back me up, otherwise they might have scored a lot more." 
The lone run of the ball game was scored in the third inning. Senior Usa Miller singled, stole second, and advanced to third on a fielder's choice. She scored on a sacrifice fly by Hayes. 
Notre Dame does not have much time to rest on their lau­rels, because this afternoon they travel to Michigan State to face the Spartans in a double­header. 
"We've never played them before," said coach Miller. "We're going in blind about them, but we're more concerned about our team." 
Alford and Brandenburg will pitch for the Irish. Miller hopes to juggle them throughout in order to keep MSU from gain­ing a good look at either one. 
erase any burden. Michigan's fingers remain bare, except Webber's, which will forever be wrapped in the memory of his mistake. 
It is a mistake that will de­tract from an otherwise com­pelling championship game. Both teams played like champi­ons, trading baskets down the stretch in a final flurry for the title. 
Neither team could tip the scales of talent, matching up with each other inside and out­side. 
It came down to coaching. 
Dean Smith is a teacher, molding a team that is as intel­ligent as it is talented. Steve 
DuQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
,,r· . "···­
MAKE A SPLASH-TAKE A CLASS! 
DUQUESNE'S 1993 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: *TRANSFERABLE COURSES* *START DATES MAY THRU JULY* *ACCELERATED SESSIONS* Ask about our wide variety ofScience Courses, Language Courses, and Trips! 
Fisher is a ball boy, rolling out the equipment and letting his thoroughbreds run. 
Twice they have run them­selves into a wall. With no di­rection from the coach there is no place else to go. 
Fisher is quick to relieve Webber of the blame for Mon­day's loss. 
He notes that without Webber, Michigan wouldn't have reached the championship game two years in a row. 
Webber also relieves himself of the blame, claiming that he heard someone calling for a timeout from the sidelines. 
It was probably Fred Brown. 

THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT 
PRESENTS 

RICHARD F. PHELPS FORMER SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE DIRECTOR OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY 
"THE POLITICAL EDUCATION OF 'DIGGER' PHELPS: REFLECTIONS ON A YEAR IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION" 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 

By BETH REGAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's track team didn't set the world on fire with their performance in the Manchester Invitational last Saturday, in fact, they couldn't even find a match. 
The Belles were unable to place in any event, leaving their team total at the meet at zero. 
Surprisingly, the team was not dissatisfied with its perfor­mance. 
"It was a good meet by all," commented coach Larry Szczechowski. "It was good to see the improvement and the personal records." 
The team has concentrated on setting personal goals before each meet and has been successful in reaching many of them. 
"Our team is nice because it is competitive but not overly competitive," said teammate Jill Jusick. "People just go out to achieve personal goals and have fun with the team." 
Freshman Michelle Wenner set personal records in the 1500 with a time of 5:08.1, in the 4X400 relay with a time of 
68.7 and in the 800 with a time of 2:30.4. 
"Michelle is a real dedicated distance runner who had some early season injuries but is now back 100 percent," said Szczechowski. "She is improv­ing by leaps and bounds each week. It is unbelievable." 

Wenner was awarded the Golden Spike for the week by Szczechowski. 
"Our distance coach is great at encouraging me to push my­self. Hopefully my times will improve and my places will keep moving up in the meets," said Wenner. 
Jusick, another freshman, also improved her times signif­icantly over the weekend. She ran the 4X400 relay in 71.2 seconds for a personal record. She went on to set another personal best in the long jump with a leap of 14' 10." Jusick also ran the 100 yard dash in 
14.6 seconds. 

"Jill doesn't look like a sprinter," commented Szczechowski. "But through hard work and dedication she continues to improve her per­formances week by week." 
Coach Szczechowski was also pleased with the performance of the javelin throwers and the shot putters. 
"Our field event people did very well. Most of them had personal records and continued to improve," he stated. 
"Our overall improvement and personal records show that we are working hard in prac­tice and getting in better condi­tion," said Szczechowski. "We are striving to improve each week and the season will be a good one for all." 
The ater Polo team will have a MANDATORY meeting on April 6 in LaFortune near the information desk at 8:30 
p.m. We will be drawing names for our annual SYH, so pleased be prompt. 
Women's Bookstore Basketball. Anyone inter­ested in helping with this 
year's tournament, please call Marianne Haggerty at 273· 2388 as soon as possible. 
Aerobic Instructors are needed for the 1993-94 school year. If you have experience in Step aerobics, High or Low Intensity aerobics, Water aerobics or other disciplines, and would like to teach classes at RecSports, call 631·5100 for an application. Tryouts will be conducted on April16. 
Power volleyball is being played from 12:15-1:15 on Mondays and Wednesdays at the Lewis Hall court. If you have questions, call Matthew at 634·1091. 
SportsTalk welcomes guest Lou Holtz at 8 p.m. tonight on WVFI 640AM. Call in with questions and comments after coach Holtz's interview at 631­6400. 


Registration is EASY ­by FAX, phone, mail, or in person INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 for your complete SUMMER 1993 INFORMATION PACKAGE 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 

~-------~~----­
Today 

Tuesday, April 6, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER GARY LARSON
THE FAR SIDE 

j~ow SOCKS W£RE INV£NTEDI 

BILL WATIERSON
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


Hot off the press, the very first edition of the Desert Island Times caused the newspaper to quickly fold. 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 28 Himalayan 54 Action at a horror bank?
1 Gloss 30 Unbeatably 
60 Metered vehicle 

&Small marsh pleasant -~
&1 With: Fr.
bird 
34Der­
&2 Hall of Fame 
10Money in (Adenauer) 
catcher
Matamoros 360xford 
63 Industrial oven

14 Emerson's dignitaries middle name 36Dacha 64lbsen heroine 15 Molecule part 39 Entrance fees in &5 Analyze metal 
1& Surrounded by London? &&Designer42 Repetitive Cassini
t7 Balance-sheet musical

item &7 Textile 
movement

18 Greek covered processor
43 St. Philip-

walkway &&Lions and 
44 Major poem 

19 Mah-jongg Tigers
45 Collect on apiece surface20 Swashbuckler's 47 Soaks flax DOWNmoney? 

49 On the outside: 
23Region 1 The Babe's 
Prefix 

24 Some dance so Uncommon sultanate performances 52 Radio-wave 2 Mixture 25 "Eye" ntwk. reflection 3 Otherwise 
4 Tomato blight 5Document ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE authorizer & Saskatchewan city 7 Bismarck or 
25 Noted film 46 Kellogg's pact 55 Chassis rod 
Preminger 
director partner 5& "Pretty Woman" 
8 Housetops 
2& Family bond 48 Predecessor of star 
9 "King of 
27 Dazes A dar 57 Mama bear: Lat. 
Waters" 
29 Type of ear or 
51 Diplomatic 58 Overstuff
10 Oedipus's 
tube representative 
59 Actress Francis 
crime 
31 Wed stealthily 
53 Too chubby et al. 
11 Mideast V.I.P. 
32 Kind of sailboat 
54 Milkmaid's aoRef's

-=+~..a.=-1 12 Agricultural 33Ankles 
need bout-ending call 
warehouse 
35 Supporter's 13 Keats work activity 
..
21 Parts of 37 Urban railway 
Get answers to any three clues 

-::+.=+:::~~;.., musicians' 40 Copperfield's 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
mouthpieces beloved et al. 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

-.:::.J...:....c:..JL...:.J,;:::J 22 Martini additive 41 Jerk 
-
Brio!! it to us instead! 
we

DroP off Your laundry in the mornin!!. 
271--7674

Pick it UP the same afternoon! 

Sports 


., 
.. 
-
page 16 

Irish softball clinches ISU invite title ... 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame softball team (14-9) won their first invita­tiona! championship this week­end as they captured the 1993 Subway Lady Redbird Spring Classic at Illinois State Univer­sity. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame lost to DePaul 2-1 in a morning contest, but rebounded later to beat Wisconsin-Green Bay 3-2. In Sunday's action, the Irish came from behind to beat ISU 5-3 in an afternoon game, and then won a 1-0 thriller against DePaul in the championship nightcap. 
"It was a wild day," said Notre Dame coach Liz Miller. "We're very excited about winning. We've never had a strong enough team to win games like these, but we pulled together to win it. It was a tremendous ef­fort by the entire team to get the job done." 
Notre Dame needed every­body, because the Irish had to endure the loss of three impor­tant members of their squad throughout the weekend (see box). Another member of the team, senior Sheri Quinn, re­ceived news that she would miss the remainder of the sea­son with mono. 
"We dodged bullets all day," commented coach Miller. "Our team feels good about their ef­forts." 
In Saturday's first game against DePaul, Terri Kobata pitched six innings while allow­ing only four hits and striking out eight. Senior Staci Alford relieved with the score 1-1, but an unearned run in the seventh cost the Irish a victory. The error was one of only three the Irish committed throughout the weekend. 
Notre Dame gained their first victory against Wisconsin-GB behind junior pitcher Carrie Miller. Miller pitched three in­nings to gain her third win of the season. Alford came on in 

~--------------------------------t elief to record
• • r"es 
1er first save. The 

. . . bUt IOS9S three pIayers t0 lnJU I 
1itting stars for 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 

Although the Notre Dame softball team won the Subway Classic this weekend, they lost three players to injury, while a fourth player learned she will be out for her senior season. 
Freshman pitcher Terri Kobata aggravated a. calf injury In the sixth inning of the Saturday's morning game against DePaul. She had allowed only four hits up to that point. Kobata leads the Irish in wins and strikeouts with five and 66 respectively. Her status remained uncertain, but she wHI not travel to Michigan State today. 
Another pitcher, junior Carrie Miller, injured her hamstring playing the outfield against ISU. Coach Liz Miller attributed the injury to a rocky outfield. Carrie Miller will probably be out indefinitely. 
"With two pitchers out, it leaves us with only two.~ said coach Miller. "We have to adjust and go with what we have." 
Junior outfielder Amy Reuter added 
he Irish were her name to the list before the weekend, ·unior Stephanie when she came down with mono. ShePinter and didn't make the trip, which left the Irishs o p h o m o r e short on pinch runners. Andrea Keys. 
"Her loss was a big factor, because it Pinter had two left us with only one runner," said coach hits and an RBI, Miller. "Also. she's a starting outfielderwhile Keys when Carrie pitches." doubled home a 
run. 
Sophomore Liz Goetz will replace The real Reuter in the outfield. "Liz will get the e x c i t e m e n t chance to prove herself, and we'll gostarted on Sunday from there," said coach Miller. afternoon against 
The fourth player, senior Sheri Quinn,ISU. The Irish has not played all season for the Irish, entered the sixth but she had earned three letters before inning trailing 3­this year. She contracted a severe case 0, before starting of mono, which will sideline her for the their comeback. remainder of the season. Freshman pinch­
"1 feel really bad for Sheri, becausehitter Jenna she's a senior," commented coach Miller. Knudson began "She was our leading hitter last year." the rally with a 
Sophomores Sara Hayes and Andreasingle, then Keys have stepped in for Quinn at third, sophomore Sara but her bat will be missed. Hayes walked and 
''All the injuries have brought usan error by ISU together as a unit," concluded coach brought home the Miller. "It says a lot about our team'sfirst run for the closeness." Irish. 

ND golf teams score well over weekend 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR Sports Writer 

After struggling in the first 18 holes of the Purdue Invitational this weekend, the Irish men's golf team rebounded with a much stronger second day per­formance to place sixth in the tournament. 

Fighting against adverse weather conditions, the Irish did not get off to a great start, finishing the first day tied for twelfth after shooting a less than spectacular 310. However, the team showed what it is truly capable on the second day, blistering the course for a combined 291, its best outing this season. 
The Irish men shot better across the board, with senior captain Joe Dennan and freshman Kit Burton leading the second day charge, both shooting 72. They were fol­lowed closely by the other se­nior captain, Chris Dayton, who rebounded from a disappointing first round to card a 73 in the second, and Chris O'Connell, the team's most consistent golfer of the tourney, who notched a 7 4 on the second day after leading the team with a 76 in the opening round. 
When asked about the drastic turnaround in the second day, coach Thomas remarked, "The kids focused in a little better. If we stay away from making big numbers, which is real impor­tant in match play, we can play like we're capable." 
Iowa won the overall tour­nament, scoring a two day total of 575, followed by Indiana's 
586. Iowa's Jeff Frommelt was the tournament medalist, carding a 5 under par 137 to lead all individuals. Dennan's total of 149 was good for 12th place, while O'Connell's score of 150 earned him 19th. 
The Irish women's team was also in action this weekend, placing eighth in the competi­tive Indiana University Invita­tional. The team shot a two­day total of 678, 33-strokes off the score of winner Ohio State. 
The Irish were again led by their always consistent senior captain Kathy Phares, who shot 81 and 83 in the rain shortened two days, good enough for 18th place. She was followed on the Irish by the improving freshman 
Julie Melby, who shot a  167,  
good for 24th.  
Coach  Tom  Hanlon  was  

pleased with the performance of these two stars, noting, "My 
O~~OliDrn SPORTS 
1993NCAA 

SMCTRACK The Belles are pleased despite not scoring a point. 

see page 13 
see page 14 

"I was mentally ready to hit," said Knudson. "I felt really confident. I knew I was gonna do it." 
Another freshman, Kara Brandenburg, proceeded to drive in the tying runs with a single, for her second hit of the game. Brandenburg started the game pitching, but Alford relieved her. When Alford's batting slot came up, Branden­burg re-entered the game to get the key hit. After her hit, she finished the game on the mound to register the save. 
"Kara was the hero of the game," said coach Miller. "All our freshman are doing their job. They're maturing very quickly, because they don't have a choice." 
"It was a tough situation," realized Brandenburg. "I knew I needed to come through if we wanted to win." 
"I wanted to redeem myself for a poor performance last week," she continued. "But it was a real team effort, it wasn't just me." 
Other stars for the Irish in­cluded senior Casey McMurray and junior Christy Connoyer. McMurray had two hits, and Connoyer drove in two with a single in the seventh. 
The win allowed the Irish to gain a rematch against the Blue Demons in the championship game. Alford started for the Irish and pitched a complete game, allowing only three hits. 
"Staci pitched a great game," commented coach Miller. "She kept DePaul frustrated throughout because they couldn't hit her." 
DePaul tripled to lead off the game, but Alford stranded the runner and gave up two hits the rest of the way with her 
see SOFTBALU page 14 
SPORTS 

senior and my freshman had very consistent tournaments. Kathy is always in the running, and Julie is showing that she has a very bright career here at Notre Dame." 
However, Hanlon expressed 

Tuesday, April 6, 1993 JASON KELLY 
Match Point 

Webber recalls memories of 
Fred Brown 
Michigan will have to check its ego at the door for the sec­ond straight season, but Chris Webber can't say that he didn't contribute to a championship team. 
Wrapped in a cloud o Carolina blue, the Michigan sophomore executed the sec­ond stupidest play in the his­tory of the Louisiana Super­dome, helping North Carolina to a 77-71 win in Monday's na­tional championship game. 
Tied up in the corner with time running out and his team trailing by two points, Webber called a quick timeout. Smart play, except for one minor de­tail: Michigan had no time outs remaining. 
Technieal foul. Game over. 
In an instant, all the cocki­ness, all the trash talking, all the bald-headed bad mouthing seemed to disappear from Webber. All that remained was a picture of defeat. 
Fab fades fast, and Michigan is losing its luster as fast as it loses championship games. 
But North Carolina may be the real victim of Webber's ill­timed time out. 
The Tar Heels have to carry the stigma of fluke champions. 
It happened the same way in 1982, when Georgetown's Fred Brown became the Super­dome's stupidest. 
North Carolina had a one-
see HOOPS/ page 14 
EXTRA 
BASEBALL '93 
SEE SPECIAL SECTION 
concern about the play of the other members of the squad, stating, "We can't afford to post a 90 or an 87. In order for us to have a chance to win, all four members must play decent, in the 70's or 80." 


OPENING DAY Reds, Mets, Yankees, ~ Rangers win. • 
1 see page 10 






