The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 89 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10,1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Clinton orders cuts in White House staff, pay 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­House staff will total 1,044, dent Clinton ordered cuts in the when fully effective on Oct. 1. White House staff, salaries and White House chief of staff privileges Tuesday, saying he Thomas McLarty said the cuts could not ask Americans to would save $10 million. Sixty make economic sacrifices un­years ago, when Franklin Roo­less government shares the sevelt was inaugurated, the pain. White has had fewer than 50 
"The government must do staffers. 
more and make do with less," On Wednesday, Clinton is to 
Clinton said. announcing a re­announce steps to reduce the 
duction of 350 full-time and size of the entire government. 
part-time workers and employ­He has promised to cut 100,000 
ees borrowed from other federal jobs through attrition 
agencies. Most of the cuts will and require federal agencies to 
be achieved without layoffs. trim administrative costs three 
Other steps announced by percent across-the board. 
Clinton: . Republicans dismissed Clin­
-Restricts the home-to-work ton's moves as a symbolic ges­use of chauffeur-driven ture and said the real test will limousines to three officials: be w.hether the White House the chief of staff, national budget and staff grow over security adviser and his deputy. time. 
The Observer/arian McDonough 
A day fit for exercise 
Six people were eligible for "The real promise the Amer­
door-to-door limo service under ican people want President 
Two Notre Dame students run around St. Mary's Lake before the rain returned to South Bend
President Bush. Clinton to keep is slashing in 
yesterday afternoon. 
-Transformation of the half the federal deficit in the White House mess. traditionally next four years." said Senate reserved for senior officials, to Republican Leader Bob Dole. 

Colloquy 2000 and its findings violate 
a cafeteria open to all employ­Clinton said the staff cuts ful­
ees. As before, staffers will be filled his promise for a 25 per­
billed for their meals at the fa­cent reduction. However, he at­

faculty representation, says senate
cility. tained the 25 percent figure by 
-Salary reductions of 6 per­exempting 800 employees in By THERESA ALEMAN Mario Borelli, mathematics average faculty compensation cent to 9 percent for senior of­the budget and trade offices, News Writer professor, motioned that an fees and salaries listed by ficials. compared with what and by ignoring hundreds of amendment be made to the colleges. their predecessors were paid. military support personnel de­Colloquy 2000 and its find­resolution proposing that all 
-Cuts in White House sub­tailed to the White House. Had ings are a violation of faculty Colloquy 2000 proposals, Roger Mullins addressed the scriptions to newspapers and he included them, he would representation, said Michael statements of policy and other senate with a report on health magazines. have had to cut many more Detlefson, philosophy professor initiatives be submitted for re­insurance coverage stating that 
Clinton's announcement was people. and faculty senate member at a view, comment and approval by with a Preferred Provider Or­
part of the process of preparing Clinton also dropped his chal­faculty senate meeting yester­the faculty senate. ganization (PPO), faculty mem­
Americans to dig deeper into lenge for Congress to match the day. The amendment further pro­bers and those covered by their 
their pockets for higher taxes 25 percent personnel cutback. Detlefson. motioned to submit posed that the senate report on insurance would be given a 
to shrink the huge federal "Economic renewal will re­to the administration, a state­this be reflected in the final Col­greater freedom of choice re­
deficit and pay for highway and quire tough choices from every ment that all proposals and loquy 2000 report. garding doctors and medical 
bridge construction and other American," the president said. statements of policy be submit­care. 
projects. Another warmup step "But we have to ask the most of ted to faculty senate for consid­The amendment was passed With the PPO plan, those cov­
will be a televised town those who got the most and eration and approval. He fur­after much debate and many ered would be significantly en­
meeting Wednesday in Detroit. gave the least during the last ther motioned that the faculty statements of discontent with couraged to use "in-network" 
The president will announce decade -those at the top of senate move to "reject as non­the Colloquy. providers or a select group of 
his program Feb. 17 in an ad­the ladder and those who have binding" any proposals or The senate also passed a mo­doctors, but would not be 
dress to Congress. the levers of government. statements of policy not submit­tion to send a formal request to severely. financially penalized 
The slimmed-down White ted and approved. the university for a statement of for not doing so.
see CLINTON I page 4 


Bianco fights 
Weapon in CIA shootings
Iceberg debat~s heads to put an end 

identified; Suspect sought
into quarterfinal round 
FAIRFAX, Ya. (AP) -Police Young said police got theirBy JOHN CONNORTON and Alumni A, defeated their

to violence 
on Tuesday issued an arrest break on the basis of a missing "1 think the resoluti(ln was 
News Writer opposition. 
warrant charging a 28-year-old persons report filed by Kansi's 
By MOLLY KELSEY 
man in the fatal shootings out­roommate on Jan. 28. OfficersWith the third round of the definitely slanted towards the 
News Writer 
side CIA headquarters and said got permission from the close last night, the quarterfi~ team member John Emery, 
Iceberg Debates drawing to a negative," said Stanford Hall an international search for him roommate to search the 
Since witnessing the beating was under way. apartment on Monday night,nals are all but decided. At is~ who argued against the 
death of her daughter at the 
The man was identified by and found an AK-47 assault ri­sue was whether or not Notre resolution.
hands of her ex-husband six police as Mir Aimal Kansi. a fle that ballistics test indicatedDame should recognize pro· Those arguing for the years ago, Millie Bianco has be­Pakistani national with legal was used in the attack. thechoice student groups. resolution, that Notre Dame come a sPlf-proelaimed educa­residency status in the United chief said. 
With a victory over Sorin, should recognize pro~choicetor of the facts and possible States. His last known address The FBI was also obtaining aBreen·Phillips is now seeded student groups. said that such preventions of domestic vio­
was in Reston, Va.. a suburb of federal warrant charging Kansi lence. she said as she ad­
number one going into the University recognition would Washington. with unlawful flight to avoidquarterfinals. Sorin dropped not be inconsistent with the 
dressed the Saint Mary's 
Kansi was charged with capi­prosecution, police said. 
to number two. and is fol­school's mission. Dan O'Bryen chapter of "Circle K" Tuesday tal murder in the Jan. 25 "We have no reason to be­lowed by Zahm, St. Edwan\'s, of Morrissey said that the night. 
shooting deaths of two CIA see SHOOTING I page 4 
Stanford and Badin Halls. upcoming Colloquy .:moo 
"Spotlighting the absurdities employees. Police said they hadBecause of a four way tie for stresses the importance of in society is the first step in no motive for the pointblank
the remaining two spots be­academic freedom and 
eliminating them," Bianco 
shootings into cars waiting at atween Pangborn, Morrissey, diversity. He argued that Du 
Runoffs today 
stated. 
stoplight to turn into the
Keenan and Alumni B. debate Lac represented an outdated Bianco felt that domestic vio­
agency's headquarters in
officials have decided to have and out of touch system of lence statistics could decrease McLean, Va. 
Run-offs for Notre Dameone more round to decide who rules and obligations.
in two ways. One method she "As far as we can determine, student body president andgets the remaining two posi­O'Bryen's partner, Blaine advocated is through the start 
there is no definite link be­tions. Shearon, stated that the Unj;. 
vice president are today. Theof a Violence Intervention Pro­
tween the suspect and the
"In the spirit of the Iceberg versity would not be m~af~ Frank Flynn!Nikki Wellman gram that would operate on a agency," said Fairfax CountryDebates, since there were four fected by recognizing pro­ticket is running against thelocal level. This organization Police Chief Michael Young. 
teams that tied for the last two choice groups if it had not 
David Reinke/Lara Dickey
would help female victims to CIA spokesman Peter Earnest spots, we're going to have an been so when. it gav~ the ticket.
find both safety from their 
confirmed that the suspect wasextra round for the quarterfi­Laetare Medal of Honor, All students, including se­abusers as well as emotional 
not connected with the agency,help. 
nals," said Amy Listerman, considered to be the highest 
niors, can vote in their dorms 
but he declined to offer
chair ofthe lceb~rg Debates. award given to American from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5
The second solution Bianco 
specifics "because the matter is suggested was to a pass a law 
St. Edward's and Siegfried Catholics, to Sen. [)aniel 
to 7 p.m. Off-campus students still under active investigationwas the only split decision last Patrick Moynihan {D~NY),. a • that would establish a Manda­ca.n vote at the LaFortune In­and it is our policy not tonight. All of the other teams known supporter of the right
tory Arrest and Counseling 
formation Desk at the same
comment on matters with such see ICEBERG /page 4
arguing against the resolution, status." 
times.
Pangborn, Badin, Stanford,
see VIOLENCE/ page 4 

----------------------------------------------------------~---~­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Move over 
Clark, here comes Blasi 
My father is the real Clark Griswold. The King of the 'close-knit' family idealist and ultimate lover and planner of family vaca­tions. 

One memorable vacation was the family's annual Jeanne Blasi summer trip to the big Production booming metropolis of--------t Eagle River, Wisconsin. This area becomes the 'wilderness' to city-dwellers in Chicagoland. One summer, my family piled into our brand new 'family truckster' with a brand new matching luggage carrier and commenced the eight hour drive north. While driving on the expressway, a large semi­truck kindly kicked up a large number of rocks which promptly left a large crack in the windshield. But we refused to let this measly setback stand between us and the natural wonders which awaited. We should have known better. Upon arriving, we simultaneously enjoyed a hearty meal and the wilderness at our favorite restaurant, one with large trees growing through its roof. We returned to the parking lot to find the rear window of our new prized station wagon shattered. Dad bravely replaced the window with a plastic bag to prevent animals from joining our trip and our vacation continued. One week o cold rainy Wisconsin weather. On the way home, we stopped at my uncle's to visit while my father went to have the windows replaced. But as my father drove to pick us up to drive home the limits of our sanity were tested. Heportedly, as dad was driving down a steep hill, four trucks going in the other direction passed him. He heard a loud whoosh. and to his amazed eyes caught a glimpse of the luggage carrier flying as it blew ofT the roof of the car to its final destination in the middle of the ex­pressway. He quickly pulled over to retrieve our prized possessions when four trucks suddenly sped over the hill and crushed the luggage carrier bursting open all of the hard-sided luggage. Clothes exploded all over the road and blew off the highway. My poor father ran all over the road alone attempting to throw all the clothes into the back seat of the ear. When he arrived to retrieve us, the first thing we all said to him was "Where are my clothes!" A father gets no gratitude. . Needless to say. we now travel with two or thrne ropes tied over the luggage carrier. Heeently, my panmts journeyed to St. Louis to visit my brother at school. My father went outside to load up the old wagonmeister and proceeded to get the mail. Mom and dad got in the car and headed to the airport. Upon arrival, dad discovered he inadvertently 'forgot' the luggage. Concerned, he called a neighbor who replied, "Oh yes, I just drove by and noticed your luggage outside on the lawn." Yes, Clark Griswold scores again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
Today's Staff: 
Production Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki  Sports Jonathan Jensen  
News Frank Rivera Sarah Doran  Systems Harry Zembillas  
Production Peggy Crooks Bryan Nowicki  Graphics Brendan Regan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
""'u"... Boris offered to drop his demand constitutional referendum Tuesday in a conciliatory move aimed at placating foes in parliament. Yeltsin accepted proposals by speaker Ruslan Khasbulatov and other parliamentary rivals for early presidential and parliamentary elections in exchange for movement on the economic front. The move appeared less a retreat than maneuvering by Yeltsin, whose supporters say he may have enough backing to prevail in a nationwide ballot on who should be more powerful: The president or parliament. 
NATION 
Evidence of cheating at Annapolis 
• ANNAPOLIS, Md. ~ Investigators have turned up evidence 28 midshipmen at the Naval Academy may have cheated on a December electrical engineering exam, officials said today. The punishment for honor code violations such as cheating is expulsion from the Navy. The last major cheating incident at the academy was in 197 4, when seven midshipmen in a navigation course were expelled and 13 were placed on honors probation, John said. 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Just A Sister Away (JASA), an African American Sisterhood, will have its first general assembly at 9 p.m. in Lyons Hall Chapel. For further information, contact Chandra Johnson at 631-4260 

• 
Auditions for "Frogboy" will be from 7 to 10 p.m. at 217 O'Shaughnessy. "Frogboy" is a rock opera sponsored by WVFI. For an advance script, call James Kennedy at 631-2301. 

• 
Music of Sankofa Fireside Chat is today in the ISO Lounge from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m. Come discuss the history of the Jazz and African rhythms as we enjoy lunch provided by the multicultural executive council. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING February 10 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 292,362,540 -1.53 to 245.54 S&P COMPOSITE -2.52 to 445.33 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS ·22.96 to 3,414.58

UNCHANGED 544 

GOW 
+ $0.50 to $329.40 oz. 
SILVER + $0.033 to $3.70 oz. 
Wednesday, February 10,1993 
FORECAST Mostly cloudy tonight with a low in the mid 30's. Very mild tomorrow with a high around 50. TEMPERATURES City H L Anchorage 20 01 Allanta 87 311 Bogota 70 48 Cairo 84 54 Chicago 34 25 Cleveland 32 18 Dallas 70 48 Detroit 35 18 lndlanapolla 311 32 Jerusalem 52 40 London 48 43 Los Angeles 63 54 Madrid 55 34 Mlnneapolla 26 24 Moacow 27 27 Nashville 63 31 New York 44 20 Parla 41 37 Philadelphia 44 24 Rome 61 43 Seanle 84 47 South Bend 34 2 8 Tokyo 48 36 Washington, D.C. 411 28  


Innovation for Valentines Day 
• PITTSBURGH ~ Forget the flowers. chuck the chocolates. Lovers struck by Cupid are finding fresher ways to express their affections on Valentine's Day, whether it is hiring a maid to scrub a sweetheart's floor or sending a teddy bear that will whisper sweet nothings. "Flowers wilt and bears won't," said Jerry Crowley of Telebear. The manufacturer, based in Bally, Pa., has sold thousands of bears equipped with a microchip that records a message in the buyer's voice and plays when the bear is squeezed. At $39.95 plus $3 shipping, the 12-inch bear could cost less than a dozen roses, Crowley said. Other Romeos and Juliets are splashing their sentiments across billboards and television screens. Jean Guzik, 22, paid $210 to spell out her love for her boyfriend, Chris Mullen, on a 12-by-25­foot sign in Pittsburgh for a week. 
AIDS patient loses lawsuit 
• 
LOS ANGELES ~ A surgical technician cut by a scalpel during an operation was awarded $102,500 on Tuesday in a lawsuit against the patient, who failed to disclose she has the virus that causes AIDS. A Superior Court jury found that patient Jan Lustig committed fraud and negligent infliction of emotional distress on Diane Boulais. Although Boulais has tested negative for the HIV virus so far, her lawyer told jurors she lives in fear of contracting the disease."I am thrilled," Boulais said. "It is a message that will help all health care workers." Lustig's lawyer, Evan Wolfson, said the verdict will be appealed. 

• 
World peace action group will hold its major or­ganizational meeting of the semester tonight at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Call Bill at 634-1307 with questions. 

• 
A discernment retreat is being sponsored by Stu­dents Encouraging Religious Vocations (SERV) for young men and women who may consider the religious life. Some spots are still open for Friday 12-5 p.m. and Satur­day until 6 p.m. at St. Mary's. Call Paul at 289-6309 by Thursday if interested. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1763: France ceded Canada to England under the Treaty of Paris, ending the French and Indian War. 

• 
In 1846: Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter­Day Saints, the Mormons, began an exodus to the west from Illinois. 

• 
In 1962: The Soviet Union exchanged American U-2 pilot Francis Gary Powers for spy Rudolph lvanovich Abel. 

• 
In 1967: The 25th Amendment to the Constitution, dealing with presidential succession, went into effect. 

• 
In 1988: A three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco struck down the Army's ban on homosexuals. 


-----~--~------------~-------~-------------­
Wednesday, February 10, 1993 The Observer page 3 
Hardman, Kennedy named to General Board 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Junior Kevin Hardman was appointed Managing Editor and junior Brian Kennedy will take over as Business Editor for the 1993-1994 Observer General Board, David Kinney, editor-in­chief elect, announced Tuesday. 


Hardman, who will succeed junior John Rock, served as Ad Design Manager for The Ob­server since March 1992. He is Kevin Hardman an electrical engineering major 
Kennedy, a Grace Hall resi­from Cincinnati, Ohio. Hardman dent, is from Oak Lawn, Illinois
also held the positions of 
and is an Accounting/Computer
assistant ad design manager 
Applications major. Kennedyand designer in previous years. 
does not have any previous ex­perience with The Observer, but "I look forward to working 
has served as program
with Dave (Kinney) and next 
manager of Grace Hall food
year's General Board," Hard­sales for the past two years,
man said. "I am optimistic 
managing a business of approx­about changes which will en­imately 40 employees. He hashance The Observer." 
also worked at Bimba Manufac­The managing editor is ulti­turing and Town Liquors, bothmately responsible for the edi­in Illinois. 
torial content and daily produc­tion of the newspaper. 
''I'm very excited to have thi~ 

Brian Kennedy 

opportunity," said Kennedy. "Hopefully I will be able to work with the other department managers to run the financial side of The Observer in the most efficient manner possible." 
The business manager over­sees the operations board and maintains the financial budget of the newspaper. 
Hardman and Kennedy will begin serving their new posi­tions immediately after spring break. 

NO receives over $1.57 million in grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,577,884 in grants during November for the sup­port of research and various programs. Research funds to­taled $1,449,519 including: 
•$187,000 
from the National Science Foundation for fast beam studies by Stephen Lun­deen, professor of physics, on excited states of atoms and molecules; 

•$169,046 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Subhash Chandra Basu, professor of chemistry and bio­chemistry, on glycolipid metabolism in normal and pathological tissues; 

•$132,554 
from the U.S. Air Force for research on quantum transport by Craig Lent, asso­ciate professor of electrical engineering, Wolfgang Porod, professor of electrical engineer­ing, and others; 

•$124,499 
from the U.S. Navy for research by David Tannor, associate professor of chemistry and biochemistry, on control of photochemical relations; 


•$120,000 
from the U.S. Navy for extended X-ray absorption fine structure studies of semiconductor microstructure by Bruce Bunker,. associate professor of physics; 

•$102,667 
from the U.S. Navy for research on music and esprit for array signal pro­cessing by Yih-Fang Huang, professor of electrical engineer­ing, and Ruey-Wen Liu, Freimann professor of electrical engineering; 

•$99,687 
from the National Aeronautics and Space Admin­istration for a study of distur­bances in fluid-fluid flows by Mark McCready, associate pro­fessor of chemical engineering, and Hsueh-Chia Chang, chair and professor of chemical engineering;


• 
$95,819 from U.S. Navy for research by Steven Skaar, as­sociate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on camera-based manufacturing control; 
•$79,988 from the U.S. Navy for studies of ordering in ternary and tnultinary semi­conductors by Kathie Newman, associate professor of physics; 

•$76,657 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Thomas Mueller, chair and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, on an experimen­tal inversion and simulation propeller blade; 

•$73,6000 
from the National Science Foundation for re­search by Graham Lappid, professor of chemistry and bio­chemistry, on stereoselectivity in electron transfer; 

•$70,000 
from the U.S. Navy for research by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, on hy­drodynamics and acoustics in nonuniform flow. 


Awards for instructional pro­grams totaled $17,903 from the Retirement Research Foundation for a student exper­imental program of work with homeless and elderly adminis­tered by Sheridan McCabe, as­sociate professor of psychology. 
Awards for other programs totaled $77,740 from the Na­tional Endowment for the Hu­manities for a program on derican constitutionalism in comparative perspective ad­ministered by Donald Kommers, Robbie professor of government and international studies. 
DIPPING 
is for 
DIPS! 

Do your mouth (and your friends) a favor-­
The Sandpiper--Beacon 
"Your Vacation Host on the Gulf Coast" 
650' Gulf Beach Frontage 2 Outdoor Swimming Pools 1 Enclosed Heated Pool Kitchens with Microwaves Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasailing Volleyball Tiki Beach Bar 
Make Your Spring Break Reservations Now! 
1,RQ0,488,8R28
17403 Front Beach Roaa•Panama City Beach, Aorida 32413 
... 

Reduce, Reuse, Recycle! 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, February 10, 1993 
Iceberg 
continued from page 1 
to choose. 

Shearon compared the situa­tion of pro-choice groups at a Catholic university to that of the Muslim Students Association and ROTC. He argued that both groups operated were inher­ently at odds to Catholic princi­pals, but that both were sup­ported by Notre Dame. 
Jason Spak of Stanford Hall said that any University support of pro-choice groups would be inconsistent with the Notre Dame's stated mission in Du 
Clinton 
continued from page 1 

"We in government cannot ask the American people to change if we will not have to do the same," Clinton said. 
Asked if he, personally, was briving up any pay or privileges, Clinton said, "I gave up 350 staff members, which is a re­markable accomplishment." Seventy of the 350 were tern-Lac. He noted that Notre Dame did not censor student pro­choice groups, but merely re­fused to support them. 
Spak cited University Presi­dent Monk Malloy's statement that pro-choice discussion groups frequently become pro­choice advocacy groups, an oc­curence that happened at Ge­orgetown University. Such an event would conflict directly with the Catholic character and mission of the University of Notre Dame, said Malloy. 
Following the extra round to determine the seventh and eighth spots, the quarterfinals of the Iceberg Debates will be 
porarily detailed to the White House from other agencies. 
McLarty noted Clinton's $200,000 salary was exempt because it was set by statute. McLarty, though eligible for limousine service, "is not ac­cepting it at this point," Mark Gearan, his deputy, said. 
"This is not a shell game where we're moving people here and counting people here," McLarty said. 
Join Us For Valentine's Day 
2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 
120 N. Main M!Shawaka. IN 

Reeta•rant 255-7737 
Reservations Appreciated 
held on Monday, Feb. 15. The debates will focus on "resolved, that health care professionals should not be prohibited from assisting terminally ill patients in self-administered suicide." 
Violence 
continued from page 1 

Program. This proposed law would state that if any person showed the least evidence of abuse, they would be arrested and if they refused counseling, would be jailed for six months, she said. 
Bianco also advocated the election of government officials who would place a stronger fo­cus on the issue of domestic violence. 
Shooting 
continued from page 1 

lieve he's left (the country), but we have no reason to believe he hasn't," police Capt. David Franklin at a news conference. 
Nonetheless, said FBI Speci'ltl Agent Robert Ryan, "a world­wide manhunt is being launched at this time." He said Kansi was also being placed on the FBI's list of 10 Most Wanted fugitives. 
Police said the Chinese-made AK-47 was bought three days before the shootings at a gun store in Chantilly, Va. 
Lansing Bennett, 66, and Frank Darling, 28, both CIA employees, were killed in the morning rush-hour attack. 
Correction 
An article in Tuesday's Ob­server incorrectly abbrevi­ated material quoting Melissa Whelan at a Saint Mary's College forum Mon­day night. The quote should have read: "We should not allow the putting down of Saint Mary's on our own campus." 
A separate article in yes­terday's edition failed to identify a source in a story about a parietals policy pro­posal at Saint Mary's. Sister Mary Brassil is the acting dean of Student Affairs. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 


$1400 Scholarship for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
dead l;ne Feb. tzS. 
stop by the Center for Soct a1 Concerns for Info end eppltcatton 
Notre Dame Glee Club Singing Valentine's 
This February 14th... 
0 Surprise Her with a rose and a song delivered by A Glee Club Quartet. .. 
0 Surprise Her anywhere in the U.S. with a Love song Delivered byphone... 
On Sale in the North and South Dining Halls, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
ACourse In 
Economics. 
Students can get great haircuts from professional 
stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an 
appointment. At MasterCuts we trim prices. not quality. 
~-------l~-------]1-------l 
:$1.00 Off: :$5.00 Off: :2~/o Off : 
: Haircut :: 
I  I I  
1  With studenti.D  1 1  
No double discounts  
I  reg. $8.95  I I  

I MasterCuts II
L_______JL 
Perm 
With studenti.D. No double discounts 

MasterCuts 
::An Haircarei 
I I  I  
1 1  With studenti.D  1  
No double discounts  
I I  I  
IIJL  MasterCuts  IJ  

MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

University Park Mall 
277-3770 

ALUMNI
Ill 
SENIOR
:::r: 
.... 
HEY JUNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 19, 1993 

, 
Wednesday, February 10, 1993 The Observer page 5 
Pegasus rocket carries environmental satellite ·into space 
Haiti announces agreement on U.N. observers
Do Yourself a Favor-­
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) --A Pegasus rocket launched from a B-52 bomber flying eight miles above the Atlantic Ocean today lofted a Brazilian environmental satellite into or-· bit. 
The Pegasus was dropped off the wing of NASA's modified B­
52. After five seconds of free fall, the rocket motors were fired one by one and propelled the satellite into an orbit about 470 miles high. 
The $20 million satellite is designed to monitor the Ama­zon River and surrounding rain forests. It was built by Brazil's space agency. 
Former astronaut Gordon Fullerton took off in the B-52 at 
8:17 a.m. from the shuttle landing strip at Kennedy Space Center. 
He released the winged rocket. 50 feet long and 4 feet in diameter. a little over an hour into the flight at an alti­tude of 43,000 feet about 80 miles offshore. Upon ignition, the Pegasus streaked upward followed by a trail of smoke. 
There have been only two other Pegasus launches by 
rocket maker Orbital Sciences Corp. The first, in 1990, went well. Rocket problems on the 1991 flight left seven small mil­itary communications satellites in the wrong orbit, although they still performed their mis­sion. 
Today's launch was supposed to be in early January, but was delayed because of rocket problems. Even this morning, the B-52 took off an hour late because of trouble with radar­tracking equipment in Ber­muda. 
It was the first Pegasus flight from the East Coast. For the first two launches, the B-52 flew from Edwards Air Force Base in California. 
Florida was chosen for this launch because of the orbital path needed for the satellite. Orbital Sciences, based in Fair­fax, Va.. monitored the flight from a control center in Wal­lops Island, Va. · 
Flight controllers cheered, applauded and hugged one an­other when the satellite reached orbit. 
Orbital Sciences has touted 
Third stage 
burnout and 
orbital insertion. 
stage 
The desired 
bumout 
368-mile orbit is reached only .9.6 minutes after launch. 

Payload interface with nitrogen tank Stage 3 motor 
Cairiei aiici'aft Stage 2 motor 
pylon hookDorsal cable channel 
lb.o.== Second stage separation
Stage motor 1 ~=dl ...___ Separationjoint 
Sources: Orbital 

the Pegasus as a cheap and third the price of traditional flexible way to put payloads of unmanned rockets. up to 1,000 pounds into low­Earth orbit. Today's launch "We hope to be the Apple costs totaled $13.5 million, a computer of space," said An-
Cervera 

tonio Elias, senior vice presi­dent of advanced programs. 
Orbital Sciences plans up to seven more Pegasus launches in 1993, all from Edwards. 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) monitors' mission "only the first 
--Haiti's military rulers backed step toward the normalization down Tuesday and agreed to al­and democratization of political low U.N. human rights monitors life." in the violence-wracked nation. 
·---=-----::--::-------------=---------::------------, The White House praised the The key question is whether 
QUIT SMOKING! 
C 0 1 1 e g e s t u d e n t s ! 
A real estate career could propel you into a rewarding future! If you plan to live in the Michiana area after graduation, please join us! 
Tuesday, February, 16 Saint Mary's College Haggar College Center, Room 304 
Call Sheila Bardwell to register and receive your free Real Estate Career Kit 271--4171 
Hosted by: Cressy and Everett/ Better Homes and Gardens the Haitians will allow freedom
move as a step towards 
restoring democracy. of movement and cooperate 
The announcement from the with the rights monitors, who office of army-backed Prime would seek to protect Haitians Minister Marc Bazin called the from harassment. 
Wish your friends a Happy Valentine's Day or ask that special someone to Be Your Valentine 
Come to The Observer 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 631-6900 
Deadline Wednesday, February 10, 5 p.m.
J t · ' I
fior tIze February 12 1 v T a en me s ssue
L ____!____________::::._______________________. 
Tlrt: STANfOIID rtAI.I.I'wiCf rJIIWUGIIT SATIIUZATION I'Lil'UIS I'IWII/1LY PII£5£NT 
Jf@fjj~ jfj~~]JJ ~~0 §J!Jllffij (ff!Jjf!PWJ~[(@ ~WJ(ff!JJJF~§JJF 
wt( sl.:o ,.;..,.., H.. 1/ I 


! :,·. 
L) '<,h .. · '1 ' 
iL• ;I 

Saturday, February 13th 8:00PM 
Band BO\'INE SOLUTION starts at 7:30PM 
Tickets $3.00 
Available at the I.1Fortunc Information Desk 
All proceeds do!lat-ed t-o TII c Log1111 Cen t-c r 
"We do not know that right now," said the U.N. special en­voy for Haiti, Dante Caputo. 
Sixteen observers from the Organization of American States have been in Haiti for months, but their movements have been restricted by the mil­itary. 
About 40 OAS monitors --15 of them Americans --will travel to Haiti within four days, said Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman. 
Caputo said the monitors would stay in Haiti for at least a year, but the Haitian govern­ment announcement did not give a period for their stay, say how many would take part or what their powers would be. 
The mission appeared doomed last week when Bazin rejected plans for a 500-mem­ber monitor force, saying he wanted an end to the interna­tional sanctions imposed by the United States and its allies after the 1991 coup. 
But the reversal was appar­ently brought about by a warn­
ing by secretary of State war­
ren Christopher that U.S. sanc­
tions might be tightened and intense behind-the-scenes lob­bying by State Department aides. 
The about face was also at­tributed to President Clinton's remarks Friday that the ob­servers should also safeguard the rights of soldiers --who say they fear exiled President Jean­Bertrand Aristide because of his plans to purge the military. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali "considers that this marks the first effective step toward the global solution of the crisis and the full restoration of democ­racy," Caputo said. 
valentine's Day Special 
ROSES 
$18°0 a dozen Fri-Sat-Sun 

~aternovvski ~arket 4 5 31 Roseland 1/2 mi. North ofSt. Mary's at 2nd traffic light 
272-0970 


page 6 The Observer Wednesday, February 10, 1993 
Hospital employees return to work one day after shootings 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Shaken 
employees underwent 
counseling and security guards 
were ordered to work overtime 
one day after a former patient 
shot and wounded three doc­
tors and held two people 
hostage for some five hours. 
And in south Texas, Estella Rivas wrung her hands and wondered aloud what happened to her only brother since he left there 12 years ago. The next time she would see Damacio Ibarra Torres, his face filled the evening news in a story about a siege at a California hospital. 
Tension pervaded the Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Medical Center on Tuesday, said hospi­tal spokeswoman Adelaida De La Cerda. 
"You do feel the anxiety, but everybody is trying to work as a team and those who need to voice their feelings are being heard by others," she said. "We're trying to help one an­other to cope with it." 
Maintenance worker Ladell Lewis said of the unease: "It's kind of affecting everyone. A person on any given day can just walk right in here and do something to somebody." 
Patients shared the tension, too. 
Correction 
An article in Tuesday's Ob­
server incorrectly abbrevi­
ated material quoting Melissa 
Whelan at a Saint Mary's 
College forum Monday night. 
The quote should have read: 
"We should not allow the 
putting down of Saint Mary's 
on our own campus." 
A separate article in yes­
terday's edition failed to 
identify a source in a story 
about a parietals policy pro­
posal at Saint Mary's. Sister 
Mary Brassil is the acting dean of Student Affairs. The Observer regrets the errors. 
Remember 
to VOTE 
TODAY! 
Voting will be held from 11-1 and 5-7 in the Dorms and Lafortune 

Rachel Murillo said her sick mother, Rosa Murillo, came to the hospital only reluctantly after watching news accounts of Monday's shootings. 
"She is scared, but if you're sick, you have to come," Murillo said. "She didn't really want to come today." 
Most emergency services were open Tuesday, but not the walk-in area for non-emer­gency patients without insur­ance, where the shootings oc­curred. 
Dr. Richard May, 47. re­mained in critical condition with gunshot wounds in his head and torso, De La Cerda said. Dr. Glen Roger, 41, and Dr. Paul Kaszubowski, 44, were both in serious condition. 
The doctors were working at a screening desk for non-criti­cal medical problems when po­lice said Torres, clad in camou­flage garb allegedly pulled a handgun and began frring. 
Torres, 40, held the three wounded doctors, another physician and a receptionist hostage for five hours before surrendering peacefully, police said. Torres, who told police he has AIDS, was booked for in­vestigation of attempted murder and kidnapping. 
In the aftermath, some doc­
tors felt scared, others were 
hostile, and demands were 
made for better security. 
Hospital officials declined to discuss specifics of their secu­rity arrangements. Spokesman Harvey Kern said, however, that besides having security guards work overtime, the hospital was talking to other county agencies about borrowing personnel until permanent staff is hired. 
The Los Angeles Times re­ported Tuesday that the hospi­tal had been unable to fill 13 vacancies on its security force. 
Patients and staff are accus­tomed to crime in and around the sprawling hospital, located in a neighborhood where gang shootings are common. 
Yet even in a violent city, doctors and nurses don't expect to become the target, said Julia Barkman, a third-year medical student. 
The assumption for many is, ''I'm supposed to be the care­giver, so no one is going to hurt me," Barkman said. "Maybe that's an illusion." 
As hospital workers and pa­tients recovered from the shocking events, the alleged gunman's sister sat in a cousin's living room in San Benito, 
Texas, lamenting that she couldn't be at her brother's side. 
She held an old, torn photo­graph of him. Dated October 1974, the photo showed a young man with long, dark hair, a beard and mustache. "El Hippie" was written in fading ink on the back. 
She described him as a dedi­cated -if unemployed -mu­sician, when he left San Benito, about 15 miles northwest of Brownsville, soon after their mother's funeral in 1981. He was even-tempered and never got into trouble with the Jaw, she said. 
"I don't know what drove him to this point," she said. 
Rivas said she had been looking for Torres for years and wanted to tell him their parents had left him their house. 
But she didn't hear from him and knew only that he had ap­parently been living in Wiscon­sin for a time. 
Now that she knows where he is, she wants only to go to him but doesn't have the money for the trip. 
"I would just like to hug him and hold him and tell him I'll be there for moral support," she said as she stared into the 

AP/Katt Tate 
distance. "Just to tell him that I Jove him." "I feel sorry for the people ~who got ~urt)," she added, 
because ... 
She paused. 
"I don't know." 

Then, with the heel of her palm, she wiped the first tears from her eyes. 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO MANAGE AND ACCOUNT FOR OVER $400,000? 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOU AS THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. 
THE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT BODY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS FOR: 
•STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT 

•STUDENT 
UNION BOARD 

•
HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

•CLUBS 
AND ORGANIZATIONS 


THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BECOMING THE S1IUDJEN1r BODY 1rRJEASURJER THE FOLLOWING YEAR. 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT STUDENT GOVERNMENT, 2ND FLOOR, LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 8:00 AM-5:00PM; DUE ON FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19 AT 4:00PM. 
QUESTIONS, CALL 631-7417 
Environment 

Wednesday, February 10, 1993 page 7 
Secretary Babbitt defends Endangered Species Act 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Interior 
which his predecessor, Manuel White House. Secretary Bruce Babbitt said Lujan and the Bush He said the change will help today the conflict between administration, had argued the administration "anticipate loggers and environmentalists should be changed to better environmental problems" and in the Northwest over the spot­take into account the protection plan ahead to deal with them ted owl "is going to )Je the test of economic concerns. "so you won't have a train case" for the Clinton adminis­In a speech to the American wreck." tration's enforcement of the Mining Congress, Babbitt called Endangered Species Act. the species law "soundly Clinton promised Monday to 
"I feel confident we can set premised" and that it was give the new office, which will aside areas to protect not only needed to "maintain the biodi­replace the Council on Envi­the spotted owl and salmon versity that supports the life ronmental Quality, a coordinat­runs and at the same time get systems of the planet, the life ing voice on environmental is­the logging industry back on its Bruce Babbitt systems of the water and the sues across the board, feet," Babbitt said on NBC's land resources and productivity "changing the way government
that protecting the owl will cost 
"Today" show. of this country." works."
them thousands of jobs. 

The survival of both the Meanwhile, Babbitt said dur­"After years of waiting for
Babbitt said this "crisis is go­
spotted owl and some species of ing his interview today that he scraps, environmental issues
ing to be the test case for my
salmon in the Northwest are welcomed the creation, an­finally have a seat at the table," 
department and this adminis­
dependent on enforcement of nounced by President Clinton said Frances Heinecke of the
tration." 

the federal species protection on Monday, of an Office of En­Natural Resources Defense
On Monday, Babbitt defended 
law. Loggers have complained vironmental Policy within the Council.
the Endangered Species Act, 
Illinois nuclear plant dropped from 'problem facilities' list 
ROCKVILLE, Md. (AP) -Brunswick, near Southport, condition and personnel errors cessive overtime, a backlog of Praising "improved overall N.C., and James A. FitzP&trick as meriting close, continuing repair orders, poor safety sys­performance," the Nuclear in Oswego, N.Y. attention. tems and bad relations between Regulatory Commission re­All four plants had continued The commission also singled plant operators and manage­moved the Zion nuclear reac­to operate but under the close out four nuclear plants -ment. tors near Waukegan, Ill., from scrutiny of the NRC. Plants among the 110 in the nation -In a letter to James J. its "problem facilities" list on cannot be removed from the for a "sustained high level of O'Connor, the chief executive Friday. "problem facilities" category safety performance." officer of Commonwealth Edi­
It was the first time in two until the licensee demonstrates These plants were Diablo son, the NRC said it was en­years that Zion, owned by a period of improved perfor­Canyon near San Luis Obispo, couraged "by your commitment Commonwealth Edison Co., was mance. Calif.; St. Lucie, near Fort to provide appropriate off the roster of the nation's Regional officials told the five Pierce, Fla.; Summer, near resources to the station and by most troubled nuclear plants. NRC commissioners that the Columbia, S.C.; and Susque­your progress in improving 
Three others remained on the Dresden Station performance is hanna, near Berwick, Pa. station management, material list, including Commonwealth improving, but "it is our view The NRC put Zion on its watch condition, teamwork, planning Edison's Dresden Station at that further improvement is list in 1991, criticizing and scheduling, shutdown risk Morris, Ill. The others are needed." They cited equipment Commonwealth Edison for ex-and radiological controls." 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the 
1993-94 General Board 
NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The news Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas advertising manager oversees ad representatives and clerks and is responsible for and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. generating advertising revenue. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of
Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to deal QuarkXPress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The ad design manager
with the public. The viewpoint editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors oversees a staff of designers, works closely with the advertising department and
and columnists, and decides what letters will run each day. 
is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
. PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The sports Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge ofeditor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special QuarkXPress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible production manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works for the content of the sports section each day. 
closely with department staff on layout and design. 
ACCENT EDITOR 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge editor manages a staff of editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, of computer networking. The systems manager maintains and updates the oversees the Etc. page and is responsible for the content of the accent pages Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire each day. Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The photo OBSERVER TYPESETTING DIRECTOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience, especially with
editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians, and must work QuarkXPress, Aldus Pagemaker and Aldus PrePrint. The OTS director
closely with department editors is assigning photographs. manages all aspects of the typesetting business, including client relations and new business development.
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor 
CONTROLLER 
manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's.
Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible The controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement of intent and a resume to David Kinney by Friday, Feb. 12, 1993 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-5323. 

,-----------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, February 10, 1993 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edllor...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ....... Colleen Evale VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .....• Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edllor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edllor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 

Dear Editor: 
.Jesse .Jackson came striding into the Notre Dame Room to spend a few minutes chatting. From my perspective at the punchbowl, I could see the man, mueh as he looks on the news. Someone was trying to explain to Jackson what NASCCU was as the Heverend turned his back and moved to the cheese tray. As the bewil­dered student's voice trailed ofT in reeognition of its own impo­tence. I nodded and walked to my office across the hall. 
Seated and on the phone was a form that looked far too big for the chair. As he turned, Muhammed Ali rose to talk to the folks in the room. "I wish my Dad were here," was all I could think. Ali could barely speak and his hand shook; he gave out presigned cards instead of signing autographs. I had heard, but had not been prepared. 
A great man-trapped within a body and brain that hide him from the world. It was moving and painful to guide him around the office, and an eerie sense of de ja vu descended. Even now Ali's expression is burned into my mind. That same vacant stare, with dim recognition of the people and objects around him. 
The deliberate, exaggerated movements and twitches be­traying a loss of neuromuscular 
DOONESBURY 
YeAH, I'M OUT 
Htr; 
IN TH/3 OF'!N NCW/
Z{)NI<! 

CORN&Ui ON-BOOI<iI IAIIAT'S UP, · BY TH/3 f)(}f?e? NUM~R~.' 
au., 
HUH:~ 
\ 

control. A childlike fascination with simple things. Watching him show off with his last re­maining trick-pushing up with the center of his feet so his toes and heels were off the ground-was one of the most heart-wrenching things I've ever seen. 
I watched my grandpa lose a struggle with Parkinson's disease through high school, with many of the same symptoms. He seemed to regress. This great man who I could remember helping my Dad carry a pool table, who first taught me to throw a baseball, and would tell stories about his boyhood in Boston as I sat in the enormous front seat of his 1965 Mercury had to be fed and dressed until the very end. 
And so for a few precious seconds I looked into the vacant eyes of this champion and was silently moved. 
"I know where you've gone. I have seen the hell-lit interiors you haunt. Say hi to Grandpa for me." We clasped hands and he smiled a simple smile. Then he turned, helped by an aide, and was gone. In that simple smile I saw more answers to the eternal "why?" than in any ten speeches by Jesse Jackson. 
Rich Delevan 
Off-campus 
Feb.8,1993 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution.' The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Maroy's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 AccenVSaint Mary's 631-4540 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
-----~ 


Student reflects on meeting 'The Champ' on campus 
Should protestor pay fine? This reader answers, 'Yes' 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to a front page article that reported on some Notre Dame students that attended the Pro-Life march in Washington, DC. I do not intend this article to be ei­ther a Pro-Life or a Pro-Choice platform paper. 
Rather this is in response to a rather questionable statement made by Miss Claire Johnson. For those who do not remember. while in D.C., Miss Johnson broke the law and was subsequently fined $50 as a punishment. Miss Johnson refused to pay the fine. 
My question to you, Miss Johnson, is why? Why will you not pay for the crime you have committed) In "Letter from a Birmingham Jail" Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. set the guide­lines for those who wised to oppose the system in order to brin about change. One of 
~1'4 .. 
-« ~ ~ ~ 
c:;;r ---­
~~~~--~': 
those stipulations was that those who participate in civil disobedience must be ready to accept the punishment that their actions incurs. Do you not proclaim that your movement is similar to the Civil Rights movement of the 60s? Then why is it that you refuse to pay? 
You say that you don't believe in paying a fine to a system that would sanction abortions. How far are you willing to take this belief? Why stop at a $50 fine? Stop paying your income taxes. Stop paying into Social Security. As a matter of fact, stop buying anything that is susceptible to sales tax. All that money goes to the same system. While you are at it, stop taking advantage of the things .his country has to offer you, because it all comes from that money. 
If you are going to play the part of rebel, go all the way. Are you really worried that your 
~ ­
~ --­
~· .-z 
-:7.F­

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
V/3RY. U5T8V, ZONK, 
7HANI<?, 8lfT

I GOTTA A5K YOU 
IT INI/0£.115 
I'M ON fJU7Y.

MARIJU/WA,..
SOM£THING. 
ICCVW£0'313
I 
MY5XIAL­
5rol~~

I 
r ,rp 
money will be used to support abortions, Miss Johnson, or do you just not want to pay the fine? 
I would argue that you should pay the fine. In fact, you should pay double. Show the govern­ment that you are better than them. Maybe your contribution will go into a fund that helps young pregnant women. 

Maybe it will help fund sex­education programs in inner­city schools. Maybe it will do some good. Most of the problem with abortion is that people are unwilling to accept their re­sponsibilities. Accept your re­sponsibility, Miss Johnson, as a citizen of this country. If you do not, you are no more than a common criminal. 
Chris Setti Cavanaugh Hall Feb.2,1993 
/ 
I 

'Who is rich? He that rejoices in his portion.' 
Benjamin Franklin 

QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 

I
Viewpoint 
1
Wednesday, February 10, 1993 page 9 
I 
Is the military's ban on gays a violation of civil rights? I ' I 
Last week the hottest issue on Capitol Hill, and throughout most of the country, focused on President Clinton's stand of permitting gays to serve in the military. Many conservative Republicans like Minority Whip Newt Gingrich can hardly con­tain themselves hoping for a vote in Congress. Interestingly enough. it was these same Re­publicans who argued, when Republicans controlled the White House, that the president should have the final word on military policy. Political ob­servers know political expedi­ency when they see it, and in Gingrich's case. this is it. 
Ending the ban on gays in the military is really a political sideshow rather than a sub­stantive issue. Does anyone remember how the 1988 presidential campaign was dominated by the Pledge of Al­legiance in public schools or prison furloughs? Following that election, voters seemed remorseful that they allowed sideshows to dominate then, and seemed resolved not to al­low that to happen again in 1992. For the most part, it didn't. 
So the question remains, what is the problem with gays serving in the military? It seems that the heterosexual establishment uses two argu­ments. First, gays cannot func­tion with others because they will look at other soldiers in a way that will make those "straight" soldiers want to kick their asses. This macho reac­tionary attitude was dramati­cally demonstrated in Japan recently when an openly gay sailor was beaten to death by, you guessed it, another Ameri­can sailor. So much for com­radeship and loyalty. 
Secondly, opponents of gays serving in the military suggest that AIDS will infiltrate the mili­tary ranks and threaten this nation's ability to defend itself. Nightline aired this issue last week using a Colonel who re­searched the issue and a Top Gun fighter pilot who recently was reassigned to a desk job because he announced that he was gay. They debated both sides of the issue with Ted Koppel. 
What resulted were statistics by the Colonel showing that the military currently has less than a three percent HIV-positive rate among its ranks. The former Top Gun pilot countered that African-Americans and women now account for 80 percent of new HIV cases, while gays account for only five percent of new cases. -He questioned whether the Colonel suggested that we now also ban African-Americans as well as women. 
The debate will rage on, for a while anyway, with opponents using moral grounds, the dis­ease debate, and the excuse that heterosexuals cannot function with gays to support their position. I personally re­spond by pointing out that gays are currently serving, some with high distinction such as the woman who won the bronze star but was still dismissed last 
Gary J. Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

year, and could continue to serve. if only they remained closeted. Of course assume that they also did not violate the code of conduct by making advances towards others during their silence, which is the case in the instances I cite here. 
The bronze star lesbian and the Top Gun gay are examples of those who did their jobs admirably without making ad­vances towards others. How do these military persons differ from the four Annapolis mid­shipmen who have been charged with assault for al­legedly attacking two female classmates in their room with pillows? Both women received bruises, and one was left with a black eye. According to several midshipmen, the women vic­timized in the pillow attack were targeted because one of them had made a sexual ha­rassment complaint. 
Or how do the gay and lesbian differ from the senior male midshipman who was found, uninvited, looking for a kiss either 011 or in the bed of a female sophomore? All of them 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students compare abortion to slavery 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing in response to Mr. Cunningham's Letter to the Editor concerning abortion (The Observer, Feb. 2, 1993). We question the accuracy of his logic. 
In his assertion that there exists no analogy between slav­ery and abortion. we must dis­agree. He reasons that "in the case of slavery, there is only one person who is truly affected by the decision of whether or not to afford human rights ­the slave himself." 
If there had not been any other person affected by the is­sue, then it would not have been an issue. Indeed, the slave issue of then is analogous to the abortion issue of today. 
There is no difference be­tween the slave owner who is opposed to the emancipation of his/her slave because it would mean a change in his/her lifestyle and the mother who is opposed to the birth of her child because it would mean a change in her lifestyle. Both is­sues boil down to which intrin­sic right is the more important to uphold. 
Mr. Cunningham then pro­ceeds to contend that forcing a woman to bear her child is an infringement "upon the woman's right to have domin­ion over body," but is it not a greater infringement to allow someone to have dominion over another's life? 
Mr. Cunningham also claims that any male placed in the woman's position would readily become pro-choice. We claim that anyone placed in the baby's position would just as readily become pro-life. 
Mr. Cunningham continues on to maintain that it is "only logical that a baby is accorded his/her rights at birth." We were unaware that the right to life was something to be granted. We asshpled it was just incorporated with being a life. 
Further, Mr. Cunningham declares "once it is established that we have been granted human rights, our government does not (and cannot) then con­spire to take away the rights of certain groups in an arbitrary manner." 
First of all, this statement is incorrect, the government does and must arbitrarily take away certain rights. Nowhere in na­ture is it written that one can­not exceed 65 mph on the in­terstate; however that right has been arbitrarily taken away, in order to protect our's and other's more important right to life. 
Likewise, forcing a woman to bear her child may take away her right, however it is done only to protect a greater right -the right to life. 
Next, Mr. Cunningham at­tempts to rewrite the biology books by insisting "the two [the decision to have sex and the decision to have a child] have become separate acts, and must be treated accordingly." 

We fear that either he is wrong or our sex-education in­structors were. We were taught that having a baby was related to sex and in fact could even be caused by it. But perhaps Mr. Cunningham is correct after all -sex does not cause ba­bies ... the stork brings them. 
Finally, Mr. Cunningham states "removing the freedom of willful reproduction from women is a form of oppression as well." 
Except in the case of rape, we know of no woman who has been denied her freedom of willful reproduction -she is perfectly free not to conceive. Mr. Cunningham, where in the world do you see oppression? The only oppression we see is that of young human beings who without even having had a trial are already condemned to die. 
It saddens us that the right to life is even an issue. We as hu­man beings evolved the capac­ity to reason in order to in­crease our ability to survive ­to live -not to reduce it. 
We have the power to think and to rationalize to enhance life -and yet again and again we use this same power to de­stroy it. It is ironic that a world with the ability to learn about itself and to give to its various members more often chooses ignorance and destruction -a world that has the knowledge to help the natural biological processes continually prefers to hinder them. 
Katie Hossler Erica Engelland Michelle Green Jessica Borders Karen Luke Pasquerilla East 
Feb.5,1993 

would be dismissed from the military -some for committing physical acts forbidden by the code of conduct, the others for announcing that they are themselves whom the Pentagon forbids to serve. Conduct should be the only determining factor in discipline, not a person's sexual preference. 
It is a matter of discrimina­tion, pure and simple, to which a Federal judge in Los Angeles agreed in his ruling last week. 
That case involved a gay man who served with distinction for twelve years before being dis­charged solely on the basis of his sexual orientation. The judge pointed out that of all the NATO countries, only the U.S. and Great Britain prohibit gays. He also ruled that the military's reasoning was based on "cultural myth and stereo­types." 
The fear of those who are not gay currently dominate the thinking of the military (and most politicians). It happened when Harry Truman desegre-· gated the military so that African-Americans could serve as equals. I recently read ex­cerpts of statements from op­ponents of Truman's Executive Order. Morale, functionality, and the spread of disease were cited in statements made over fifty years ago. If I had not known what I was reading, I would think that it was today's Joint Chiefs of Staff making the statements. History does have a way of repeating itself. 
President Clinton should be admired for his unwavering 
stand on the issue as well as his willingness to include in the military all Americans who are able to serve. As is the case with all things, true equality will happen sooner or later. Time changes attitudes, condi­tions, and societal thought. Last week a Federal judge quick­ened the process by declaring the ban unconstitutional, thus breaking through the ignorance and fear perpetuated by the Pentagon. 
I would suggest that before any Notre Dame student jumps on the bandwagon of support for the military's position, think about coeducational housing at Notre Dame. Do you feel that the University has had enough time to formulate a policy? (This has been an issue since 1972.) Have you ever felt that the University wrongly pre­judges you and condemns you before you ever have an oppor­tunity to prove them wrong? Do you think that the University administration does not un­derstand you or completely re­spect you like you would want? 
If you answer "yes" or even "maybe" to any of these ques­tions, then you should know how a gay or lesbian must feel while serving in the military under the antiquated ban. 
Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of the University ofNotre Dame and now works in Washington, 
D. C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the United States House of Representatives. His column appears every other Wednesday. 

Dear Editor: 
The Freshman Class Council voted on the service project for the Class of 1996 last week. We had some great choices; how­ever, we decided to choose two projects. Although most classes usually choose one, the Fresh­man Class Council felt that we would have enough volunteers to support two projects. St. Hedwig and La Casa de Amis­tad will be our service projects for the members of the class of 1996. 
Both service projects for the members of the class of 1996 involve the underprivileged youth in the South Bend community. It is our hope that both the class of 1996 and the youth of South Bend will both benefit. 
At this time, we are request­ing a member of the Class of 1996 from each dorm to volun­teer as a service commissioner. Each dorm will have their own commissioner. The commi­sioner will serve as a liaison be­tween the service committee and will be responsible to or­ganize their dorm's participa­tion. 
We are requesting that the potential commissioner be committed and responsible to serve their dorm for the re­mainder of our years at Notre Dame. If you are interested in serving your class of 1996 and your dorm, please submit your name, dorm, phone, and a brief summary about your ambition to become a service commissioner to: Ryan Mon­toya/216 Grace Hall via campus mail by 2/15/92. If you have any questions, call631-3815. 
If you are not interested in becoming a service commi­sioner, but would like to volun­teer your time, please keep posted as more information will follow. Furthermore, the pro­grams will be described in greater detail. 
Ryan J. Montoya Service Chairperson 
Feb. 7,1993 


Bill Rosemann 
Sucking the Marrow Of Life 

My best friends 
~ 

were the Superfriends 
s 
ing to the tune of UMy Favorite Things" UThor's Uru hammer and (;reen Lantern's ring, Wonder Woman's lasso and orange rocks of the Thing, Batman's dark Batcave and Spider-man's swing, 
these are a few of my favorite things." 
I wore Aquaman Underoos. I ran through my neighborhood in a home made bat-winged costume. My green bike with the three-speed gear shift and the sparkley banana seat was my Green Lantl'rn motorcycle. The first form of literature I remember buying was a comic book of "Wheelie and the Chopper Bunch." I have always been. and will always be, a super hero fan. 
I.IVE ACTION TV SUPER HEROES 
MAN FROM ATLANTIS: In his pre-Dallas days, Patrick Duffy played a finger-and-toe­webbed adventurer who made kids everywhere swim like a porpoise on speed. 
TilE INCREDIBLE HULK: How many times did I imitate David Banner (played by vulnerable Bill Bixby) saying. "Mr. McGee, don't make me angry -you wouldn't like me when I'm angry." Lou Forregno had the pees of Zeus. 
GREATEST AMERICAN HERO: Through a haze of rage I remember the episode when Ralph finally found the suit's instruction booklet, used it to shrink down to the size of an ant, and then accidentally left the book shrunk. "I watched this show for three years," I screamed, "and you lose the book-you idiot!" Who else owned the 45 of its theme song "Walking on Air?" 
WONDER WOMAN: Linda Carter had the boots, the lasso, the special star-spangled wet suit for deep sea adventures, and the attitude. 
I wouldn't call The Six Million Dollar Man or The Bionic Woman super heroes-but Electro Woman and Dyna-Girl (of the Kroft Super Show) were-while Automan and Manimal were­stupid. 
CAlHOON SUPER HEROES 
TilE SUPEHFHIENDS: The mother of all animated masked groups ("Battle of the Planets"-featuring the voice of Casey Casum-running a close second). I wanted to live in the Hall of Justice with Super Samurai. The villains (who, like Black Manta, were much cooler) had the sharpest headquarters ever: a huge Darth Vader helmet-like fortress which rose ominously out of a murky swamp. 
MARVEL IIEHOES: These were the rare but loved episodes of Iron Man, Thor, Captain America. Sub Mariner, and the Hulk. They all had hip songs like: 
"Doc Bruce Banner, belted by gamma rays. 
turns into the Hulk, isn't he glamorous? 
The ever Iovin' llulk-llulk. Hulk." 
The Spider-Man cartoon had neat villains like Mysterio and Doctor Octopus. but the best thing was also its theme song: 
"Spider-man, Spider-man, does whatever a spider can. Spins a web any size, catches thieves just like flies. 
Look out-here comes the Spider-man." 
Spider-man, a bookworm who got picked on in high school, criticized by authority figures. beat up by villains. and rejected by girls, is someone I can relate to. Eternally worrying about money, death, and sex, he's Woody Allen in tights. 
The coolest of all caped characters, however, is Batman. But whenever I tell people, "By striking at all urban crime, he gains vengeance on the thug who killed his parents-He's the angry orphan within us all," people just nod, back away slowly, and say, "uh-huh-sure." 
A hearty thank-you to Stan "The Man" Lee. Steve Ditko, .Jack "King" Kirby, and all those men and women who filled my life with grand adventures of triumph and tragedy. 
/Jill Rosemann is an Accent columnist. His columns appear in The Observer every third Wednesday. 

Among strangers 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

The Cavanaugh Hall players hold a dress rehearsal for "The Foreigner." The play depicts the interaction between a foreigner 
and residents of a bed and breakfast in rural Georgia. 
The Cavanagh Hall Players show that ignorance isn't bliss in 'The Foreigner, 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 
For anyone who's ever witnessed how differently Americans act around non-English speakers, Larry Shue's, "The Foreigner" is proof positive that anything goes when people feel they can let their hair down and be themselves. 
The Cavanaugh Hall Players will perform "The Foreigner" in Washington Hall Wednesday, Thursday and Friday (Feb. 10-12) at 
8: 10 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $4 for non-students, with all proceeds benefitting the Andy Sowder Memorial Scholarship fund. Sowder was Cavanaugh Hall president in 1979 when he died of spinal meningitis. The scholarship is awarded annually to a needy Ca­vanaugh resident. 
The play offers a cast of characters ranging from a falsely pious Southern minister to his pregnant debutante fiancee to a half-wit who's not as dumb as people think. Among them is Charlie, a timid foreigner who would rather feign ignorance of English than subject himself to conversations with total strangers. 
Thinking of Charlie as little more and breakfast in rural Georgia, The play takes some dramatic turns, than a piece of furniture, the cast of Charlie's wish for solitude makes as the threat of the KKK taking over 
infidels and troubled souls reveal sense. There's Betty, the well-meaning the bed and breakfast becomes more their secrets right in front of him. but annoying owner. played by Tracy imminent. Charlie's vision, if not his "The comic part of it is that all these Crinion. Catherine (Kim Massman) voice, takes over and he leads Betty, 
stories revolve around them having no and Ellard (Pete Goyer) are two resi­Catherine and Ellard in what Andre idea he understands what they're say­dents. a wealthy but troubled calls a "half-wit plan to scare them ing," said producer John Ruskusky. debutante and her simple, half-wit away which seems pretty stupid, but The role reversal shows "how much brother. actually works." 
more comfortable people are if they Catherine's fiance, Rev. David Lee think that they can be themselves," (Tim Mooney) rounds out the picture And although he keeps silent said .co-director Jen Andre. as a calculating Ku Klux Klansman throughout the play, Charlie's success 
Tyler Hower plays Charlie as a shielded by a virtuous front. against the Klan helps him find his British Woody Allen-type, properly Charlie, meanwhile, watches them own identity. angst-ridden with just the right all in silence. 
amounts of self-pity. He agrees to "This is a really high-visibility play accompany his friend Froggy (Chip "(Charlie] thinks he had to put on an compared to the last few years," said Highsmith) on a trip to the United act. Him having been made a producer John Ruskusky, who hopes States. but on the condition that he foreigner enables him to become the notoriety will translate into high won't have to talk to anyone. someone he wasn't able to be before, ticket sales to benefit the scholarship 
After meeting the group at the bed maybe his true self," Andre said. fund. 


Wednesday, February 10,1993 The Observer page 11 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
l
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College .. l Center. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
1

ALASKA SUMMER IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY -1 *&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&** LOVE STINKS!! EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn BDRM, USE OF ALL It's time for the 2nd annual: 
Notices $600+/week in canneries or UTILITIES, GOAL-ORIENTED I need 2 tickets for the NO­VALENTINE'S DAY REQUEST $4000+/month on fishing boats. FEMALE PREFERRED. Kentucky Basketball game. THIS FEBRUARY 14th ... LIST FROM HELLI! Free transportation! Room & CLEAN, SAFE Surprise Her with a Rose and (and we need your help) 
TYPING 287-4082 Board! Over 8000 openings. No NEIGHBORHOOD. $225/MO. Please call Cameron at 634-a Song delivered by a Glee We are looking for the best experience necessary. Male or CALL MONICA 232-2794. 1723 ...... Club Quartet ... anti-love songs around. Female. For employment Surprise Her anywhere in the Examples: 
TYPING 256-6657 program call 1-206-545-4155 &*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*&*& U.S. with a Love song delivered "Love Stinks"-J. Geils Band ext. A5584 3 BEDROOM HOUSE by phone .. _ "U Stink but I Luv You" -Billy 
$490 MONTH + $300 DEP. and the Boingers Used Texts Cheap Pandora's SECURITY SYSTEM NEED TKTS -KENTUCKY THE NOTRE DAME GLEE "I Don't Believe in Love" ­in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily INTERNATIONAL 232-3616 800-777-0675 EXT 275 CLUB SINGING VALENTINES Queensryche 233-2342 NO Ave & Howard EMPLOYMENT -Make money "I Don't Care Anymore" -Phil 
teaching basic conversational On-campus delivery to Collins English abroad. Japan and BED 'N BREAKFAST I NEED 5 BASKETBALL ND/SMC ...$5 We're not looking for songs that 
50,000,000 Taiwan. Many provide room & REGISTRY TICKETS FOR THE Phone delivery to Anywhere, say "my heart is broken board+ other benefits! Make 219-291-7153. MARQUETTE GAME!!!!!! U.S.A....$3 because I love someone," but $2,000-$4,000+ per month. No Please call Chris or Mike x1117 songs that say "this whole love 
SPRING BREAK '93 previous training or teaching On sale in the North and South thing needs to be seriously BLOWOUT SALE! certificate required. For FURNISHED HOMES Dining Halls on Thursday, rethought." Lowest prices, best trips -employment program call: EXCELLENT Joel, get off the babysitter. Friday and Saturday RESULTS WILL BE 100% guaranteed! Cancun, (206) 632-1146 ext. J5584. NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF I say this to you because it'll be PUBLISHED IN THE FEB. 12 Jamaica, & Florida packages NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL Risky Business if you don't sell SERENADE YOUR OBSERVER VALENTINES!!! still available from America's YEAR 2773097 Skip tix for the Kentucky SWEETHEART! So we need them by 2 p.m. student travel leader. Travel Driving South for Spring Break? WildCATASTROPHE on Feb. Thursday. Call Joe or Paul at free -organize a small group. I need ride to Dallas, TX. .13. It's in your best interest 1203. And, as always, Call STS @ (BOO) 648-4849. Leaving Fri. 3/5. Will help w/ 2Br. Apts. Newly Remodeled (broken arms) to call Skip at HAPPY HEARTBREAKING!!! 
gas. Walking distance to NO x2052 and make a deal or $100 FOR A STUDENT Call Lynn 284-5473. $300/mth. Call 232-8256 leave a message. DRIVING TO FLORIDA IN SNAP-A-SCAM NEXT 60 DAYS. WOULD Buy your tixs for the RAFFLE 
REQUIRE PICKING UP A @SENIOR BAR on Thurs. S For only $2 our Mothers helper needed part NO Apts. Completely $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ XEROX COPIER AND 2/11. s time days and evenings. Remodeled DELIVERING IT TO N Pangborn photo-Perfect for summer job also. walking distance to NO WE NEED KENTUCKY TIX SARASOTA, FLORIDA. CALL N Must be friendly, with Call for info. 232-8256 CALL 289-5563 264-9508 AND ASK FOR ***SENIORS*** A graphers will get you a experience and own car. 232-JULIE. BUY YOUR SENIOR FORMAL A 2201 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ RAFFLE TICKETS FOR THE P polaroid snapshot of 4 BDRMS AVAILABLE FOR DRAWING THURS. @ p SUMMER SCHOOL. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ADOPTION: Were you SENIOR BAR!! $1/each or 
your favorite babe EX-NO STAFFER & SPOUSE GRAD. STUDENTS, VISITING overwhelmed when you found $5/six DESIRE TO RENT PROFS., PREFERRED. CALL WE NEED KENTUCKY TIX out you were pregnant? We ***SENIORS*** 
A (autographed even)! A FURNISHED APARTMENT MONICA 232-2794. CALL 289-5563 were overwhelmed when we FOR SUMMER. NON­found out we couldn't have SMOKERS. REFERENCES. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ children. We're a Catholic Senior Formal Raffle! 
S On sale in the dining WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, FOR SALE nurse/doctor couple happily prizes include: s MULBERRY FL 33860 or married for 9 years. If you want • 4 rooms @ the Marriot C halls Mon-Fri til Feb 12 C PHONE (813)425-4404 SEPARATE STEREO your baby to grow up with • 5 tuxedo rentals A Photos delivered on COMPONENTS: AMP., I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA patient, loving parents, a large • Dinners in Chicago A TUNER, TAPE DECK AND CALL MATT AT x1741 extended family, & two very • T-shirts M Valentine's Day! Student Painters is interested EQUILIZER(good condition) sweet dogs, please call Mary M in hiring highly motivated $150.00 CALL271 1443 and Michael 1-800-759-6039. 
students to manage their own I need one, only one ticket for White Sox Fan? Win 2 tickets 
SNAP-A-SCAM bus. we offer management the Kentucky game. to any game incl. free dinner in training, credit backing, and a TICKETS Please give me a call at SOUTH PADRE -VIP room! ••senior Formal full support staff earning pot. 42036 BEACHFRONT Radisson Raffle••
ILOST & FOUND I $8,000. join the most and ask for Michael. Resort Wet suit contests, successful painting co. in parties, sleeps 6-8 & Marco 
I Found: Set of keys near NEED
Indiana call 1-800-543-3792 Island, FL House -near Keys SR. FORMAL TIX AVAILABLE 
PERSONAL
ask for Tom Smith. $750 week 813-642-5483 @Sr. Bar Thurs. Feb 11th two dorm keys, and another CALL JEANNE X2645 
Washington Hall. One Car key, 2 KENTUCKY GA'S 
9:30-12am Drawing begins@ mise key. 4-2002. 
midnight!! Are you BRADLEY/Peoria AVOID THE RUSH!!!! FRIENDS OF N.D.E #25 BOUND 2/12? Give your sweetie a Valentine's I JUST WANTED TO THANK 
LOST-We switched long navy Will you take me with you?$$! Need Kentucky Tix Day message, but don't wait YOU ALL FOR TRULY Here's a long-forgotten Bible Forecaster coats@ Tri-Mil. I Kath x2904 2 G.A. and/or 2 Stud. until the last minute to type it TOUCHING MY LIFE. EACH quote for you: have your camera in pocket Call Ryan X3596 in!! Classifieds can be placed AND EVERY ONE OF YOU IS "The man who stringeth the 
Call Jen 284-5.150 anytime between now and Feb. "SOMEONE SPECIAL" IN MY woman along for all eternity, he Help make a difference-tutor 11 at 3:00 in The Observer LIFE. CONTINUE TO SHINE shah loseth his privates! parts, adults trying to get their GEDs, office (3rd floor LaFortune). HERE AT N.D. THE WAY YOU anon:
MY BEST FRIEND FROM Lost-Canvas, brightly striped MARQUETTE IS COMING 
1 morning a week, 9:30-11 :30 DID OVER THE WEEKEND! bag from Jamison Inn after Tri­FOR THE GAME AND I 
call Erich at 289-1882 KEEP THE FAITH!!! 
...GOD ... N.D.E. ..HOOVER @$@$@$@$@$@$@ PEACE,LOVE,HUGS ... SEXY "OH MY 
Mil. Call Jen 284-5150 DESPERATELY NEED 
TICKETS!!! HELP ME!!! CALL Help make a difference-tutor If you are going to Daytona LORD!!!Ill
LAURA X4-2999 LOST: woman's long navy coat or the East Coast of Florida
aduhs trying to get their GEDs, w/ blue scarf. Nikon camera in 1 morning a week, 9:30-11 :30 on March 4th or before ....... . HEY ALL YOU HOOVERS! ITS MARY'S BIRTHDAY! 
pocket Lost at tri-mil ball. Call call Erich at 289-1882 I need 3 Kentucky tickets!!! PLEASE PLEASE!!!!! CALL NAMAST'E LAURIE AT x2729 HOOVER VA TONIGHT AT WE HOPE ITS VERY
Kerry Smith x4304. Please let me buy yours! call Moira 4-3885 
I WILL PAY$$$$$$$$ THE HOOVER!! WINDY, Do you have a friend visiting @$@$@$@$@$@$@ SOUR, 
from Miami OH this weekend? AND BLACK AND BLUE! 
Found: jacket at Corby's the 
My valentine needs a ride 2 dorky,thin,loser,nerds looking 
first week of school. Call 271-NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS 
back .please help, Todd 1195 for 2 cool dates for SYR this From your future 
7288 and ask for Mary to MARY X2862 
***SPRING BREAK*** Sat. want to learn to have fun. quad 7 nights Beachfront in we're serious! call Einstein and Swimming pool and spa Panama City Beach, FL. Erkel X1547 leave message, P.S. A cousin wishes you a 
identify. 
Need 1 or 2 GA!Stud Lost: A navy blue Wimbeldon company has opening for retail Discount ID card included we're studying happy birthday, too! 
Kentucky Tix. blazer at the Lyons formal sales person for Summer 2711514 or 1-8575 Prices start at $109. Hotels Saturday night at Union season. Underclassmen have filling up so don't delay. Station. Please call Tim at Call James @289-2683 See Breathtaking Action, 
opportunity for multiple 
Summers work. Competitive ***SPRING BREAK*** Fearless Stunts, Amazing pay, flexible hours and training Pyrotechnics, and One Really 1422. 
reduce

I NEEDUKTIX 
provided. Send letter or resume Stupid Person in. _...WANTED to 1919 South Michigan St., Housing Contracts Due Soon! THE FOREIGNER 
MATT X 1374 South Bend, IN Still Time to MOVE OFF and 
reduce 

46613 become truly independant! WASHINGTON HALL FEB. 10, 11, 12. 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS FOR RENT I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student $3 
reduce 

Quit Yer Procrastinatin' & Buy 
PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' tix for Kentucky -Brian x1 069 $$1 need a ride to Indy on the Tix! 
CAMPS 
Friday, ( at LaFortune Info Desk) 
reuse

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
...
3-5 person furnished house, call Vince 
NEAR LAKE PLACID Sec. System, wash/dry, beach 272-8503
CALL 1-800-786-8373. I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR V-ball, PRIME location, 233-***AWESOME SPRING 
reuse

KENTUCKY GAME! 
BREAKS! BAHAMAS CRUISE 9947. 
CALL MEG -X3884 INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, 
Would you like to win a VCR, PANAMA CITY WITH 
reuse

Adoption-Active, Young couple 
dinner, or your tux and hotel KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter 
5 Br. house Newly Remodeled Need Duke & Kentucky tickets. room for SENIOR FORMAL? $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) Near Lafayette Square. Raffle @ Senior Bar. 2/11. Tix $149, CANCUN FROM 
and

guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-Will pay $$$. Call (708)835­
Call 232-8256 are $1 or 6 for $5. CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA 
682-8626. 2208 $479! 1-800-678-6386. 
recycle 



r 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 10,1993 
I 
Williams' performance, Hoover's shooting lead Irish 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN side shooting and the emer­coach Jim O'Brien. to start the second half, in­Irish shot over 50% in both I Sports Writer gence of Billy Taylor and Jon Dayton opened the game with creasing its lead to 51-37 after games. Ross, who finished with 10 and a 12-4 run behind three scores only five minutes. During the "We got good shots because
I 
DAYTON, Ohio -Forward 12, respectively. off offensive rebounds. run, Hoover hit three of his we hit the open man when he Monty Williams scored a ca­Williams answered for the Irish, team-high four three-point­was still in position to take the reer-high 32 points and guard The first half was all leading the way with five points ers."We talked about coming shot," MacLeod said, "And for­Ryan Hoover added 18, includ­Williams. The Maryland native on a 10-0 run, giving Notre out strong at the start of the tunately we were able to hit." ing 15 in thtl second half, to scored 21 points, hitting 9 of 11 Dame their first lead at 14-12 second half, and this is one of lead Notre Dame to a 79-69 win from the floor, highlighted by 3 with 12:53 remaining. the first times we came out and Also aiding Notre Dame's of­over Dayton Tuesday night. of 4 from behind the three­responded," said MacLeod. fense was the porous defense of 
The Irish led by as many as point line. The Flyers regained the lead Dayton. The Flyers remained in 19 points in the second half, "Monty Williams killed us in on a Chip Hare three-pointer, Notre Dame pushed the lead a zone the entire game, leaving due primarily to Hoover's out-the first half." reiterated Flyers but Williams scored the game's to 14 on a Williams' jumper the outside shot open. "I was a next eight points, pushing Notre with 6:05 remaining and then little surprised they stayed in Dame ahead 22-15 for their coasted the rest of the way. the zone," said Hoover, "But largest _lead of the half. they are primarily a zone 
It was one of the best shoot­team." 
"Monty came up big for us in ing performances of the season the first half," said Irish coach for Notre Dame. Entering the Chip Hare scored 15 points John MacLeod. "We were able contest, the Irish averaged 24% for Dayton, and forward Joe to get him some good shots, and from three-point range and Currin also scored 15, on 5 of he was able to hit." 4 7% from the field in away 10 shooting from three-point 
Notre Dame came out strong games. Against the Flyers, the range. 
! 
"Tryout if you are going to do team captains (Hartwell and it, give it 100 percent and all Leary) and all earning signifi­
Athletes 

you have, otherwise don't do it. cant playing time. I don't think it would be worth
continued from page 13 

it to go out there and wonder, The most unique thing about
was there was this kid in front 
'Could I be spending my time Irish walk-ons is that most
of me and he turned and said 'I 
better?'," said Johnson. came to Notre Dame for aca­
think I'm in way over my head.' 
demic reasons. Being able to
I said how do you know if you 
The walk-ons mentioned in fall back on their education
don't even try," said Hartwell. 
this article have given 100 per­gives these athletes an edge
According to Johnson, the 
cent over the course of their because all know that they have 
decision to be a member of the 
careers and this effort has been something else if sports do not
team is an important one. 

rewarded with two becoming work out. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
RETURN FOR FALL SEMESTER 1993? 
A pre-registration deposit form and $100 (if required) MUST be mailed to : University ofNotre Dame Cashiers Office Notre Dame, IN 46556-5632 
DEADLINE: February 24, 1993 
Ifyou have not received a pre-registration deposit form and are a continuing undergraduate student, forms may be obtained from the Student Accounts Office, Room 102, Administration Building 
************** 
~ 
Wednesday, February 10,1993 The Observer page 13 

Skiing teams qualify for regionals 
By MATT BOWER Sports Writer 
Sophomore Mike Zilvitits and senior Jojo Gehlled the Irish ski teams this weekend in the regional qualifying race. Both the men's and women's teams earned berths, while Katie Daniel helped the Saint Mary's team to qualify. 
Zilvitis, who has led the team throughout the season, turned in an exceptional performance this weekend. He finished first 
Athletes 
continued from page 16 
see the people who go out and practice every day and put in just as much time, yet don't re­ally get to do much on Saturday but cheer." said Matt Johnson, a senior football walk-on. 
Leary admits that it is hard to watch the action from the bench. "It's so much better when you play. It's very frus­trating to sit on the bench and watch your team lose," said the guard. 
in the giant slalom and third in the slalom. 
Junior Dave Barry and senior Pete Saine turned in strong performances in the giant slalom and slalom, respectively. 
Leading the way for the Notre Dame women was senior Jojo Gehl. She finished second in the slalom and ninth in the Giant Slalom. Also turning in excellent performances for the Irish were senior Tracy Gio­vanoni, sophomore DeeDee 
Much of the walk-on experi­ence depends on the needs of their respective team. Leary got a chance to start her sophomore year when coach Muffet McGraw decided to ex­periment with the starting line­up and Leary remained injury­free. Positions in the outfield were open when Hartwell and Amy Rueter tried out for base­ball and softball respectively. Johnson also found a niche on the football team as scout team quarterback. 
Although it is exciting to be a part of a varsity team, walk-ons 
-------------------------, 
FLORAL CO. 
Remember Your Sweetheart
Inc. 
on Valentine's Day! 

Lincolnway West, South Bend 232-3354 

Mary B. Green Come in and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
Guess who made it to 
21? 
Love, Mom, Dad, Daisu, and Ginger 

Vosswinkle, and freshman Julie Byrd. 
All three ski teams will now compete in the regional compe­tition in Biwabik, Minnesota. The competition will be held in two weeks. They will be com­peting against teams from Michigan, Wisconsin, Ohio, and Minnesota. Those individuals and teams who qualify in this tournament wiJI travel to Squaw VaJiey, California to participate in the national tour­nament. 
feel a lot of doubt and pressure, especially in the first year. Rueter, a junior softball player who was one of several walk­ons on the team her freshman year, almost quit the team two or three times, but something always happened to change her mind. 
"Freshman year was really hard because by the time he made cuts and everything it was too late to change classes around certain times that would conflict, and things like that. It was tough because I missed a lot of practices and stuff. The hardest part was try­
ing to fit in with the team as a 
whole," commented Rueter. "Once I started to travel, I got to know the people arid that made me stay. 
"If I didn't travel at all fresh­man year, I think you miss out 
Courtesy of NO Ski Team Senior Pete Saine of the Notre Dame Ski Team excelled in the slalom division at this weekend's regional qualifying competition. 
on a lot of what If 1s hke to be on the team...It's hard to feel part of the team when you didn't attend the game that people are talking about. That's the biggest thing, you feel like you are missing out and that you are out of touch with every­one." 
Since Irish varsity sports, especially the women's sports, are doing more recruiting, walk-ons must work a little bit harder to prove themselves. 
"You have to work really hard. You have to work twice as hard to get half as much of a look. You have to pay attention 

will be held Saturday, April 17, 1993 
Any bands interested in participating can pick up an application in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor ofLafortune 
*Application deadline is Monday, March 1, 1993* The first 20 bands to turn in applications will be accepted. 
';:::========;;:;;;;::;=;;;;;;:~~:;;~~~===~

BE WICKED 
DON'T SEND FLOWERS! 
Send your Valentine sinfully Delicious Chocolates by the Box, Bag, or Basket. 
WE CAN SHIP ANYWHERE ••• TODAY! 
1-800-344-5841 • LAPORTE P1·ices from $995 and up 
to details. You have to do everything and do it right. You get less chances to do it right," said Leary. 
"Everyone has their acco­lades from high school. Whether it is big time or area awards, everyone has their honors. You've just got to prove yourself on the court." 
One thing that keeps these athletes coming back to prac­tice is pride. After being win­ners their entire lives, many are reluctant to hang up their cleats, running shoes, or high tops. 
Johnson, of nearby Kokomo, Ind., came to Notre Dame his freshman year wanting to play on the football team. After lim­ited play in his first three years, Johnson was the holder for placekicks this year. 
"There were many times when I thought about not play­ing or not coming back the next year, but I just thought that it was something that I could look back on and be really proud of to play four years at Notre Dame," said Johnson. "I didn't want to quit something that I had started. I felt it would be the best thing for me in the long run." 
The key to surviving the ex­perience of trying out as a non­recruited athlete is to have 
faith in your own abilities and 
to give it wholehearted effort. Hartwell was one of about 120 guys at the baseball tryouts 
informational meeting. After coach Pat Murphy gave a speech on commitment about 40 guys did not return for tryouts. 
"I was thinking, 'I'm sure there are a lot of good players, but I'm here so why don't I try.' The thing that settled it for me 
see ATHLETES/page 12 


STUDENTS!
Don't be caught empty handed! Valentines Day is Sunday, February 14th 
Pre-Order by Friday, February 5th for lower prices 
at 

IRISH GARDENS 
All Delivery Orders Must Be In By Saturday 
Please make all orders in advance for fastest service 
Visa/MC accepted Open Sunday, February 14th 
delivery to NO/SMC/off campus 
12:30-5:30 
Balloons/Cards too! 
-

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 1 0,1993 
Men's tennis loses heartbreaker to 11th-ranked Wildcats 
Observer Staff Report After the number-one team of Ninteenth-ranked Forsyth did so it all came down to Rosas' Tarheels. 
The sixth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team suffered their second-straight loss to a top-20 opponent last night, falling to the 11th-ranked Kentucky Wildcats by a score of 5-4. 
Going in to the match, the Irish and head coach Bob Bayliss knew that the three doubles matches would be key, as the Irish needed every point they could get. 
The winner of two of the three matches is awarded a point in the overall match scoring. 
The Irish responded to the challenge and got the point, thanks to clutch wins from the second and third-doubles teams. 
Saint Mary's hoops crushes Goshen 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's twin towers stood tall against Goshen Col­lege tonight, as they and the rest of the Belles dusted the Mapleleaves, 85-54. 
Belles Julie Snyder (6') and Kim Holmes (5'11 ") stalled the Mapleleaves' offense down the lane time and time again. 
"It felt good to have an easy win before this weekend," said Snyder. 
Last year, Holmes and Snyder shared center duties. Holmes 
dipping is for dips 
$tutal 
Council 

PRESENTS... 

FIRESIDE CHATS 
-
Feb. lOth (Wed) -Music of San'Kofa Feb. 11th (Thurs)-Physically Challenged Feb. 12th (Fri) -Blue Collar Workers 
seniors Will Forsyth and Chuck Coleman lost to Kentucky's Mahyar Goodarz and Michael Hopkinson 8-6, the senior tandem of Mark Schmidt and Chris Wojtalik came up big against Kentucky's Ford Lank­ford and Jason Yeager, 8-6. 
It was now up to the number­three doubles squad, and senior Ron Rosas and freshman Jason Pun didn't disappoint. They pushed the team of Tad Berkowitz and Stephen Mather to the limit, finally winning 9-8 after a close tiebreaker. 
With the one point won as a result of the doubles wins, it was now up to the singles lineup to bring home the win. 
then stepped in late last season to cover for star forward Janet Libbing. That's when the twin towers were "built". 
"We concentrated on defense and our offense took care of the rest," said Holmes. 
Saint Mary's cornered Goshen by pulling off 18 steals during the game. Freshman Michelle Limb, fresh off the bench, had a key swipe from a Goshen defender. 
"A lot of our success goes to our defense," said Head Coach Marv Wood, "They give us 
many offensive opportunities." 
Open Valentine's Day 
10% discount on dinners for ND/SMC students with ID or coupon 

Valentine's Day Special for two -Lasagna Homemade Spaghetti, Chicken Cacciatori, Veal Parmigiana 
256-1444 

1213 Lincolnway West Mishawaka just East of 1 00 Center 
his job, coming from behind to dispose of a taltnted Goodarz 6­2, 3-6, 6-3. 
Wojtalik also picked up a win for the fourth Irish point, beat­ing Berkowitz 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
However, the rest of the Irish singles players faltered, en­abling Kentucky to come back and trip up the Irish. 
At two-singles, Coleman lost to Hopkinson 6-3, 7-5, and at three-singles Schmidt was beaten by Lankford 7-6 (7-3), 6­2. 
Kentucky's Mather then took down junior Tom North in the sixth spot by a score of 6-4, 6-0, 
Forward Jennie Taubenheim scored 19 points while guard Kristen Crowley gained 12 points. Once again, the Belles' bench came through with an impressive total of 20 points. 
Saint Mary's has a long shot of qualifying for the NCAA's, as· their next two games on the road must be won, according to Wood. 
"If we are successful on our road trip that will be a big plus," he said. 
The Belles play at Beloit Col­lege on Saturday and at Carroll College on Sunday. 
match with Yeager. 

Yeager battled back from a 6­2 drubbing by Rosas in the first set to come from behind and win the last two sets 6-4, 7-6, on the strength of an exciting 7­5 tiebreaker win. 
The Irish are now 1-2, follow­ing a 5-3 January 31 loss to the eighth-ranked North Carolina 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
However, the challenges keep mounting up for the Irish, as they face New Mexico and Minnesota in Minneapolis on the 12-13. 
They then head to the National Team Indoors in Louisville, Kentucky on the 18­21, then face Northwestern and Illinois on the 27th at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 1 p.m. and 6:30p.m. 


It's a Notre Do ~ the ftrst block athlete ~:r ~~~~hot . 
monogram at the U . . n a maJor was Frazier Thom nlverslty of Notre Dome trainee, who earn~~ohn, a Navy V: I 2 program I945, by finishing sec~~dcov:ed NO" letter in OM 200-yord dashes in m oth the I()().yardUnNe~sily ot Illinois. Thea ld~ol meet against the a .native of Philadelphia year-old Thompson, 1n the schOOl's was on honor student
pre-med program d 
on to a distingUished militaryon dwent 
professional coreeer. on 
WI~ A Tl?IV T() lAS Vr=C3AS 
li ()a')'§ --4 ,...llfhb Prize Trip Includes Air Fare & Hotel Accomodations 
VULHa With every DOMINO'S PIZZA ordered, receive a NOTRE DAME U.CI. A new f4CT will be issued daily staning February 5 through February 24,1993. Once you have collected AU 2fl f4CU. you are eligible to register in the draw1ng for the TIJIIJ T() US W(]A.§. Bring your 2fl f4CU into one of the DOMI~O'S PIZZA . locations listed below and register for the drawing. ~eg!strat1on en~nes must be received by midnight March 1, 1993. The wmmng entry Will be drawn at random on March 2, 1993. You must be18 years or o.lder to enter. Winner need not be present. Winner will be announced 1n the March 3rd issue of the Observer. The liJ)IIJ T() lAS VU>4S must be 
taken by May 31, 1993. 

No pu-d18M noooiMry. Emplo)'MO ol Domno'o Pizzo. ond ompioyeoo ol Allilolod Con loot 
ond lhoir rwn•r.....-.••not elgoblo 
, NOTRE DAr.E STUDENTS CALL: 
DOMINO'S PIZZA --------' 1835 South Bend Ave. 
I I
LARG~THPIZZA 271-0300 
CHEDDAR 

SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS CALL: 
CHEESE 

DOMINO'S PIZZA 816 Portage
I I
$6.99 
289-0033

I ADDITIONAL TOPPINQS t.• EACH1 
~------------,j
II 
Valid at participating stores only. Not vahd with any other ofler. • Custcmar pays sales tax where apphcable. Delivery _areas llm~ed to ensure sale driving Drivers carry less than $20 00. Dnvera are : · • not nahzecl for late deliveries. No cash value. 


-

Today 
Wednesday, February 10,1993 
Calvin and Hobbes 
~ 

/~~ 

c 
I 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~ ~ ~~ ~k! 
ni"-T v-IAS 
1-\ILM<.IC>\}5.1 
H~ H~ ""! 
I 

I I ' 

by Bill Watterson 

~----------~ 
BILL WATIERSON 
.----------------, ,....-----------, o1993WanersontDisfnbufedbyUniversa1PressSrndacate 
t-lelB:J\Ji C~ Mr>,Y-.£ Mt: 
GO \N.":>\'i)E! l".JE GC>I 
zoo s~ow~~LL"=> Tl-lf\T 
SM l'lv\ STA.'IING-OUT.' 
NO ON\:.5 GONN~ M.t\~t. ME coME IN 11\E 1-\W":>E! 
CROSSWORD 
THE FAR SIDE 

l 
I
-
page 15 GARY LARSON 


THE 
mr
()m~
zc 
-~
Oz
:::0­


-
r-
c 
-

ACROSS 
1 Political group 5 Brace 9 ".. Queen o' 
the~" 
12 M1m1c L1ttle 
13 Wild-rose time 
15 Pay d1rt 
16 Middle East 
potentate 17 High-pitched tone 18 Shavetails' mil. school 19 Opus of 54 Across 22 D1Magg1o's news-makmg 
1941 feat 
23 Brooch 
24 Temeranous 
Crossword 
27 Apple-blossom t1me 31 Dens 35 Facilitate 37 Addict 38lncite 39 Belled the cat 40 Spare 41 Pumpkin time 42 Cousin of a via 43Nag 44 Liquids 46Whme 46 Vineyard: Fr. 
49 "Cheerful Little -," 1930 song 
54 Priest who composed 19 Across 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
zo 
~­
-~o
:JZ 
...JW 
<{(/) 
:IH! 
Edited by Eugene T. Maieska 
59 Baron Munchausen whopper 
60 Hollyt1me 61 Shade of green 62 Epinicion 63T.V.A. dam 64 Verily 65 Bit 66 Element in 
vacuum tubes 67 Towel word 
DOWN 

1 Nursery-school scourges 2Airy 
3 Autumnal hue 4Abrade 5 Manx murmur 6 City on the 
Skunk 7 Cordage fiber 
8 Slipped back 
9"-River," Andy Williams's 28 Munich's river 45"... -the 53 Claims theme stage with 
29 Granular snow 54 Rival of Amneris 
10Az1muths tears": Hamlet 
30 Flourished 55 Destitution
11 Truckler's 47 Milldams 56 Concerningfavorite word 31 Sail into the 
so Punjabi prince wind 57 Other: Sp. 
13 German dive 51 Sweetheart bomber 32 Inland sea 58 Mineral bed 
52 Cow's 14 Taste again 
33 Aleut's abode mammary 59 His wife 20Sweeps organ became salt 
34 Survivor 

21 Charge or flood 36 Withered 
39 U.S.S.R. crisis: 
":'=t::-t::+.--1 26 Where a 
1991

khanum presides 43 Pole or Czech 
TONIGHT! 

Access Denied 
Thursday: 

Senior FormaI Raffl e 
Friday: 

Lunch (12-2) 
Must Be 21 


-Sports 
page 16 
Wednesday, February 10,1993 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 

Oh where, oh where has the Big East gone? 
Take a look at this week's Associated 
Press men's basketball poll. 
Notice anything unusual. How about 
the lack of Big East teams? 
Just a few years ago this was 
arguably the game's best conference. 
In 19S5, it sent four teams to the Final 
Four, and two more in 19R7. But a Big 
East team has not made it down the 
road to the Final Four since Seton Hall 
in 19S9. 

This week the highest-ranked Big 
East team is Pittsburgh at 17th. The 
only other ranked teams are the Hall at 
number-19 and 21st-ranked Boston 
College. 

Where have you gone Georgetown... 
or... Syracuse... or St. John's... well, you 
get the picture. The Big East is having 
about as much success on the court 
this year as the Big Ten had on the 
gridiron. 

This can be attributed to many factors, but the most obvious is the Big East's own reputation. Throughout its glory years, the conference called itself "The Beast of the East" and prided itself on its physical play. 
So much so, that the hierarchy decided to institute the six-foul rule. This was great for conference games. Alonzo Mourning and Derrick Coleman wem able to clobber each other a little more. 
Coaches recruited the big men. Seton llall picked up Luth11r Wright, Georgetown brought in Othella Harrington and Syracuse got Conrad McRae. 
This has led to a conference full of hangers-and-hangers without any ball­handlers. 
Take for example, Seton Hall. The Pirates were a consensus preseason top-ten pick. But, they have become a victim of Big East-itis. 
They have a terrific frontcourt in Wright, Jerry Walker. and Arturas Karnishovas. However. none of them can take the ball up the floor. Danny Hurley and Terry l>ehere are forced to handle full-court pressure by thmnselves. and this has led to a lot of Pirate turrHJVPrs. as well as affecting Dnhnre 's offensive output. 
The toughness which once gave the Big East an edge in the NCAAs became a d!'trir111mt. Its t11arns have struggled in post-season play. 
Fortunately, the lnague has done away with tlw six-foul rule this season. This will inevitably help return the Big East to prominf'nce because it will cut down on the need for big men to punish tlw opposition. 
Coaches will start to recruit shooters and ball-handlPrs again. St. John's can find another Mark Jackson-Chris Mullin combination.. Players like Dnlwre will bPcornn the ruin, rather than th1~ exrPption. 
Georgetown will always have their Patrick Ewing or Mourning, but the lloyas now can find a supporting cast to go with Harrington, their latest great big man. 
And the Big East can r!lturn to the 
top of the coll!~g 1~ basketball world. 
~--------------..:. a four part series examining different
athletic perspectives at Notre Dame. 
No Hegrets. 

Ask most walk-ons at Notre Dame and they will tell you that they have absolutely no regrets about trying out for their varsity sport. 
It does not matter how many scholarship oll'ers they had coming out of high school or how many athletic honors they received. The experience of being on a varsity sport has been invaluable. 
"I have had some of the best 


Crabtree helps women's tennis blow out Badgers 
Special to the Observer Benz 6-4, 7-6 (7-6). 
In other singles action, Notre 
The Notre Dame women's tennis Dame's Sherri Vitale defeated squad raised its' record to 2-3 Kira Gregersen 6-1, 6-4; Tholen with an impressive 7-2 win won a tight match over Lauren against the Wisconsin Badgers in Gavaris 7-6 (7-1). 6-4; Christy Madison yesterday afternoon. Faustmann of the Irish went 
Head coach Jay Louderback felt three sets before passing Benz 2­a strong showing in the singles 6, 6-2, 2-6; Notre Dame's Holyn matches would be a key to Lord cruised past Shannon Tully beating the Badgers, and the 6-4, 6-0; and Irish captain Ennie team responded, blasting out to a Bende, making a rare singles 5-1 lead. appearance, stretched Jamie 
Freshman Wendy Crabtree, Fourez to a tiebreaker before playing the number one-singles succumbing 4-6, 6-7 (5-7). spot for the first time, continued In other doubles matches, Notre her stellar play, trashing Dame's Faustmann and Lord Wisconsin's Amanda Gregory 6-0, dropped the first set, but came 6-0. The win pushes her record back to outlast Gregersen and 
to 3-1 for the season. Gavaris 1-6, 6-4, 6-2. The Irish At the number-one doubles spot, combination of Bende and Vitale Crabtree teamed with junior Lisa cruised to a first set victory but 
Tholen to beat the Wisconsin couldn't hold on, dropping the Freshman Holyn Lord, shown here against Duke, scored an team of Gregory and Stephany match 6-1, 2-6, 3-6. impressive 6-4, 6-0 victory over Wisconsin's Shannon Tully in yesterday's meet. 
Williams explo·des as Irish topple Flyers 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Senior forward Monty Williams dunks home two of his 16 points over Thomas Hill and the Duke Blue Devils last Saturday. Williams had a career-high of 32 points in the Irish's 79-69 win over Dayton tonight. 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

DAYTON. Ohio-Monty Williams' brilliant first half performance was enough to give Notre Dame a 32-29 lead over a scrappy Dayton team, but it took a total team effort in the second half to break the game open as the Irish raced to a 79-69 win. 
Williams lit up about live minutes into the first half, connecting on 9 of 11 shots including three three­pointers for 21 points. The inspired second half play of Ryan Hoover, Jon Ross, and Billy Taylor drove the nail into the coffin. 
The second half began with a turnaround jumper by Williams and it looked like Dayton could expect more of the same. If coach Jim O'Brien could devise a plan to stop him, the Flyers would have a good chance to win. 
The plan was to extend their zone and deny Williams the ball and it worked well. But it also left Hoover open in the perimeter where he scored 15 second-half points, including three three­pointers. to finish with 1R for the game. 
"Our shots started falling in the second half and we were making the extra pass to the open man," Hoover said, "But it was all because of Monty. Their defense tightened up on him and left the other guys open." 
Especially Jon Ross and Billy Taylor. Ross worked for 
Notre Dame walk-ons share unique experiences 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the first article in 

experiences of my life. I have traveled all over the nation-Arizona, Seattle, Wichita, Kentucky, Hawaii-all these places. There's no way I regret it. I've met some great friends on the baseball team, guys I'll know forever. I regret nothing about playing the game," said Eddie Hartwell, the senior captain of the 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

baseball team who just showed up for open tryouts freshman year. 
"It's a really good experience. You get the opportunity to do a lot of things you probably wouldn't be able to do as a regular student," said Kara Leary, a junior on the women's basketball team, who was not recruited by Notre Dame. 
A walk-on also experiences a range of negatives including self doubt, not feeling like a part of the team, and anonymity. Not getting any playing time separates the walk-ons from the other players. in addition to a lack of recognition. 
"Everybody dreams of being the big star like Rick Mirer or Rocket. Not a lot of people 
see ATHLETES/page 13 
eight of his 12 points in the 
second half and Taylor 
scored six of his 10 as the 
Irish ran away from the 
Flyers. 
During a 23-10 run that opened up the game in the second half, Williams scored just six points. lnaving the burden on Hoover who responded with 11 points down the stretch. 
"It was a total team ell'ort," Williams said, ignoring the fact that he was thn total team effort in the first half. "I was hitting my shots. but you can't take away from the performance of the rest of the team." 
Williams wasn't exactly invisible in the second half. He scored 11 more to finish with a career high 32 points. And he made his presence felt on the defensive boards where Dayton had been so successful in the first half. 
But yesterday's game pro­vided more evidence that Williams' alone cannot make Notre Dame a winner. His first-half performance was enough to keep th1~ Irish ahead of the hapless Flyers, but whnn the rnst of th1~ team responded, Dayton couldn't handle Notre Dame's attack. 
"We talked about coming out strong at the start of the second half," Irish coach John MacLeod. 
The result is a confidence boost for the struggling Irish. 
"The second half helped our confidence a lot," Hoover said. "We started hitting the shots we've been missing. We needed a game like this." 





