The Observer
VOL. XXV NO. 119 THURSDAY, APRIL 1, 1993 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Saint Mary's sets standards through year 2000 
By COLLEEN HAGEN News Writer 
Increasing enrollment, im­plementing technology, re­evaluating residence and stu­dent life, decreasing the re­quired hours for graduation and the addition of a family leave program are the primary recommendations made by a committee planning for the fu­ture of Saint Mary's. 
The Long Range Planning Coordinating Committee (LRPCC) has been working for over a year on developing a plan for the future of Saint Mary's to the year 2000 and beyond. 
The project entitled "Honoring Tradition and Pi­oneering Change: A Plan for the Future of Saint Mary's College," was presented as a working draft to the Board of Regents in February. 
The tentative recommenda­tions suggested enrollment in­creases from the current num­ber of 1,550 to 1,750. They recommend that the College should do this without lowering its academic standards. 
Donald Horning, planning committee chair, said that the College is not currently using all of its facilities. By increasing enrollment it would expand the use of them and solve that problem. For example, he said the current housing problem, in which three floors of Regina Hall are closed, could be solved. 

He also sees increasing the endowment to an amount equivalent to two and one-half times the annual operating budget as an important task. 
The LRPCC advised that the College should develop a master plan for bringing about technological advances such as a networked microcomputer work station for each full-time faculty member, a campus wide information system, and campus-wide cable television. 
Recommendations were also made concerning the reducing the number of required credit hours for graduation from 128 to 120 and creating a Center for Academic Innovation to further the intellectual growth of both the faculty and the student body. 
The report said "with current course loads students often feel overworked and overwhelmed." The report found that students felt that the addition of the advanced writing proficiency requirement was introduced without a comparable reduction in credit hours. 
The report also suggested that the College design and im­plement a family leave policy for all employees of the College. 
The policy should include flexi­ble work schedules and the continuation of employer pay­ment for health payments dur­ing the unpaid leave. 
Making the Mission Statement of Saint Mary's a living document, was also a recom­mendation of the committee. They proposed making the Mission Statement more concise and entitling the former Mission Statement the Statement of Philosophy. 
Other recommendations in­cluded in the report were: 
•The development of a cam­pus-wide recycling program. 
•The merging of the Justice 
see FUTURE I page 4 

Top students will take a look at ND 
By EMILY HAGE Assistant News Editor 
'Strength in diversity' is the theme of the 1993 Spring Visi­tation Weekend sponsored by Undergraduate Admissions. Begun in the mid-70s, this weekend is part of Notre Dame's effort to recruit stu­dents of color and increase di­versity. 
From noon today until Sunday afternoon, prospective students of color will be given a chance to see what life at Notre Dame is like. 
"This is a high visibility event," said Melvin Tardy. ad­missions counselor. "Admissions has a strong commitment to seeing more students of color here." 
Dillon Hall senior Michael Swanson, a student coordinator of this weekend, added, "[The weekend] is a positive step if we want to increase enrollment at Notre Dame of students of color. We have to be visible, we have to be competitive and show students that we have an interest in them. If Notre Dame wants to be a player, we have to attract these students." 
This year, 115 visitors are expected including 56 African­Americans, 44 Hispanic Ameri-
House approves budget package 
WASHINGTON (AP) Democrats rocketed a $496 bil­lion deficit-reduction plan through the House Wednesday, paving the way for President Clinton's program of tax in­creases, defense cuts and more spending for selected domestic programs. 
The near party-line 240-184 vote was expected to be the first in a flurry that could put the foundation of Clinton's eco­nomic plan in place by week's end. Also on tap for possible completion was the president's $16.3 billion jobs measure, which the Senate was debating. 
With senators also ready to give final approval to the five­year, deficit-cutting blueprint, Democrats were poised to }land their new president a gift: the earliest approval of a federal budget ever. 
"In the election of November, the American people said they want change," said House Budget Committee Chairman Martin Olav Sabo, D-Minn. "They elected a new president with a new vision for the future. ... Today's the time for us to deliver." 
Outnumbered Republicans complained one more time about the package's contents. 
"It is not our package, folks," said Rep. John Kasich, R-Ohio, ranking Republican on the budget panel. "We tried to re­duce your spending, we tried to reduce your taxes, we tried to reduce the debt, and we were roadblocked every step of the way." 
But it was to no avail. In the end, just 12 Democrats joined 172 Republicans in opposing the measure. No Republicans voted for it. 
At the White House, Clinton urged his troops on. 
"It's very important that this week, before the Congress goes home, that we pass the budget resolution to reduce the deficit and the jobs program to create jobs," the president said. "If we could do that, this would be a historic six weeks." 
The measure, which does not require the president's signa­ture, lays the groundwork for tax and spending changes that will come in future bills. If ap­proved, the cuts would about equal the budget summit agreement of 1990 during the Bush administration, the largest deficit-reduction measure ever enacted. 
But its flavor would be dramatically different. Its policies would thoroughly reverse the big defense buildup, tax cuts and domestic spending slashes that President Reagan brought to Washington a dozen years ago. 
"People who oppose. this package are saying, 'We really don't favor tax equity.... We want to protect the rich,'" said Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D­Tenn. 
The measure outlines plans for the government to spend $1.5 trillion in fiscal 1994, which starts Oct. 1, leaving a deficit of about $250 billion. 
cans, ten Asian Americans, and five Native Americans. Sixty percent of the students of color who visit end up coming to Notre Dame, according to Tardy. 
After their admission applica­tions are reviewed, a certain number of students are invited to Visitation Weekend, accord­ing to Swanson. 
There has been a more con­certed effort to invite African Americans, according to Tardy, but more Asian Americans have been invited recently since the founding of the Asian American Association. 
Tardy stressed the impor­tance of visiting in making a college decision. "People are always impressed by the cam­pus; they get a sense of the people here," he said. 
Swanson, who visited Notre Dame for the first time at such a weekend, said that it was helpful for him. 
"It was instrumental in help­ing me to make my decision," he said. "I was an opportunity to see Notre Dame and get a more realistic sense of what Notre Dame offers." 
"The main difference now is we try to give them a broad ex­posure to 
Notre Dame," said Tardy. The weekend is arranged so that prospective students get "insights from current students, faculty, administers, and alumni," he added. 
"The alumni can let them know that they will struggle while they are here. There will be things they like and things they don't like. They can tell them, 'this is how Notre Dame has helped me with my job." said Tardy. 
Tardy also said that this weekend is "a chance [for visit­ing students] to establish bonds with currents students and in­coming freshmen. A lot of friendships are formed." 
He added, however, that there are disadvantages to the weekend. He said that because there is so much attention given to students of color during the weekend, students may get the wrong impression. 
"When they come to Notre Dame in the fall, he said, they ask, 'Where is everybody?' All of the sudden they feel like they're in the minority." 
He added that because visi­tors stay with hosts and hostesses of their ethnic race, he or she may not get exposure to Anglo-Americans because of 
see STUDENTS I page 4 

Press having hay-day with Brooks' arrest 
By SARAH DORAN Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame student and var­sity football player Reggie Brooks was unaware that Indi­ana law requires a permit to carry a handgun, he said after being arrested for possession of a handgun without a permit Monday afternoon. 
"In Oklahoma, all you needed to do was register your handgun," said Brooks, who is an Oklahoma resident. "You didn't need a permit. I had no idea the law was different in Indiana." 
Because of that law, he and cousin Damien Penny and longtime friend Marco Holmes-all of Tulsa. Oklahoma-were arrested Monday evening in Marshall County. 
They all were charged with carrying a handgun without a permit. They were released from the Marshall County jail on $100 bond and are sched­uled to appear in court on April 13, officials said. 
The three are charged with a Class A misdemeanor, which carries a maximum penalty of a year in jail and a $5,000 fine. 
News of the arrest hit the airwaves early Tuesday after­noon. Brooks had just finished a workout for the Buffalo Bills in the Loftus Center when he found out it had been reported on television. 
"These reports were way out of line," Brooks said. "They made me out to be a hardened criminal. That's not the way it is at all. 
"We were coming back from a friend's house in the coun­try," Brooks said. "We go there for target practice. The gun is just something I have for recreation." 
see PRESS I page 4 


page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Awareness Week gives chance to help survivors 
When "John" placed his arms around me and shoved his mouth on mine, I was flying. It was a barn dance, my freshman year, and I 
as drunk. 

We were on the back of a hay-filled tractor pick-up. Tons of 
couples rode on it;-------­kissing and holding hands. Kind of expected, I guess. That's how I felt. He asked me to his dance and I flirted with him. After all, he was handsome and preppy-looking. A look that was fresh to me compared to the styling beach bums I dated back home. As we started kissing, he began leaning on me. I felt pinned to the back of the pick-up. His hands were tight on me. I was locked in. I hated that feeling. A blonde girl next to me saw me and I saw her. She kind of half-smiled, shrugged her shoulders and said nothing. By then, I was trying to shove John off me. Back on the bus, taking us to Notre Dame, John was at it again. "Not on the bus. Not here in front of these people," I whispered. But he had his hand down my jeans. But he didn't stop. In a loud voice, I said "Stop it!" He pulled his hand out of my jeans and looked up at me with confused eyes. People were staring at us. When we got back to campus, he kissed me goodnight and said "I had a great time." Didn't he notice that I was still cringing? That is probably the closest I have ever been to experiencing sexual assualt. Since this is Sexual Assault Awareness Week, members of Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) and Sexual Offense Services (S.O.S.), are promoting different events to raise awareness of this issue. This week events like peer harassment panels and self-defense courses were going on. Last night was the "Take Back the Night" march. Statistics say one out of four women will be sexually assualted in her lifetime. On college campuses, one out of six women will be raped. Chances are that when a women is sexually assualted, she will know the attacker. He could be her SYR date, her boyfriend or even a family member. And usually that woman trusts that man. 
I trusted John, but still my stomach churned and my heart started beating harder as he got closer. It's a feeling that women and men cannot 
try to ignore. 
I have two friends who have been date raped. One woman seems to have recovered. She has graduated from college, has a healthy dating life and is going on to graduate school. 
My other friend committed suicide two months after she had been raped by two of her boyfriend's friends. 
Most people at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame has a friend or relative who has been sexually assualted, and during Sexual Assault Awareness week, we must remember to help them. 
Offering our support and friendship is crucial. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Today's Staff 
SportsNews Jonathan Jensen Bevin Kovalik Brian Kubicki Jason Williams VIewpointProduction Lynn Bauwens 

Susan Marx Whitney Sheets Lab Tech Macy Heuckel Accent Mara Divis GraphicsSteve Tankovich Ann-Marie Conrado Lynn Bauwens 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer Is a member or the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Former Salvadoran president dies IISAN JOSE -Former President Jose Maria Lemus of 
El Salvador died at his home in San Jose on Wednesday, the Salvadoran Embassy said. He was 72.The cause of death was not immediately known, but he had been ailing for several years and confined to a wheelchair.Lemus, of the now-defunct Revolutionary Democratic Unification Party, was elected to a five-year term in 1956 but ousted in a 1960 coup.On March 22 a court fined him $1,100 and ordered him to pay unspecified damages to the family of a man fatally mauled by his two pit bull dogs. 
NATIONAL 

Perot criticizes USAlr sale .BALTIMORE -Ross Perot criticized the Clinton administration Wednesday for approving "the world's dumbest airline deal" -the sale of a 
19.9 percent share of USAir to British Airways.Perot made the comment during a speech before the American Society of Newspaper Editors. The sale 

was conditionally approved March 15 by Transportation Secretary Federico Pena, who said he 
OF INTEREST 

• 
The Notre Dame Chamber Choir presents its spring concert this evening at 7 p.m. in the Snite Auditorium. Selections include the Liebeslieder Walzer by Brahms and Four English Folksongs by Vaughan Williams. The concert is free and open to the public. 

• 
"What Happens when Christians pray and When Buddhists Practice Zen" Is the topic of a dialogue by Kern Trembath of the Theology department to be held tonight at 8 p.m. in the main auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. All are welcome to attend. 

• 
Asian American Association Members: Sign up for Midwest Asian American Students Union (MAASU) 


MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING March 31 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
275,732,700 +.24 to 249.42 S&P COMPOSITE 

·0.30 to 451.67 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-22.16 to 3435.11
UNCHANGED 626 


GOLD 
+ $4.80 to $337/oz. SILVER 
+ $0.147 to $3.90/oz. 

expected the British to open their skies to American carriers in exchange, something American airlines have long wanted. "We just did the world's dumbest airline deal," Perot said. "We got it stopped once during the Bush Administration." 
US accuses 44 countries 
•WASHINGTON -The Clinton administration today accused 44 countries of erecting unfair trade practices that rob American companies of foreign sales.Japan was singled out as the biggest perpetrator of barriers to competition, followed by the 12-nation European Community, in a report prepared by the office of U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor.The report, the eighth annual edition, is the first step in a process that could lead to trade sanctions if negotiations fail to correct alleged infractions. 
Pulitzer Prize winner injured 
IISANTA FE-Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist Wallace Stegner was in guarded condition at a hospital Wednesday after a traffic accident.He was honored for his 1992 collection of essays entitled "Where the Bluebird Sings to the Lemonade Springs: Living and Writing in the West."The novelist won the Pulitzer Prize in 1972 for "Angle of Repose" and the National Book Award in 1977 for "The Spectator Bird." 
conference will be tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Limited number. If you're interested but cannot attend sign up, please contact Jeannie Wong or Erica Deiparine. 
• 
Attention Seniors-Sr. Deanna Sabetta of the New York Archdiocese Teacher Volunteer Program will be on campus Apr. 4, from 10 a.m.-3 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). She will interview those whose applications are complete. Be sure to sign up for your interview at the CSC by Apr. 1. 

• 
SARG Meeting will be held tonight at 8 p.m. in the Foster Room, 3rd Floor, LaFortune. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: The U.S. House of Representatives held its first full meeting, in New York City. 

• 
In 1933: Nazi Germany began its persecution of Jews with a boycott of Jewish-owned businesses. 

• 
In 1939: The United States recognized the Franco government in Spain following the end of the Spanish civil war. 

• 
In 1977: The U.S. Senate followed the example of the House by adopting a stringent code of ethics requiring full financial disclosure and limits on outside income. 

• 
In 1984: Recording star Marvin Gaye was shot to death by his father, Marvin Gay Sr., in Los Angeles. 


-----~----~-~~-----~--------....--------~------~-~---------~~~~--..---------: 
Thursday, April 1, 1993 
Thomas Wolfe Society gives Lanzinger award 
By BEVIN KOVALIK pilgrimages to search for the News Writer richness of culture." he said. 
"This search for the old world 
The Thomas Wolfe Society means the search for their Eu­has honored Notre Dame Pro­ropean ancestry. fessor Klaus Lanzinger, de­"Through Thomas Wolfe, I partment chairman of German have gained an awareness of and Russian languages and lit­the importance of Europe for eratures, with the Zelda Gitlin American writers, and I began Literary Prize for his article, to connect the European expe­"Jason's Voyage: The Interna­riences of these four writers," tional Theme of Thomas Lanzinger said. Wolfe." During his undergraduate 
"My contribution to the study as an Austrian exchange Thomas Wolfe scholarship has student at Bowdoin College in been to demonstrate how Wolfe Maine, Lanzinger became in­has made a substantial contri­terested in American literature bution to the international and Thomas Wolfe, he said. theme in American literature," "Nathaniel Hawthorne attended Lanzinger said. "In light of this this same college," he added. theme, Wolfe is in line with Lanzinger has dealt primarily authors such as Hawthorne and with Wolfe for 30 years, but he Henry James." has performed the majority of 
Lanzinger said Thomas Wolfe his research work at the himself used the expression Houghton Library at Harvard "Jason's Voyage," to refer to University, which contains ac­Jason and the Golden Fleece of tual manuscripts of Wolfe's Greek mythology, in his allusion work, he said. to the young American who After receiving a post-doc­tours Europe in search of a lost toral Fulbright research grant cultural heritage, . in 1961, he obtained full access 
Lanzinger's award winning to Wolfe's manuscripts, article actually grew out of the Lanzinger explained. "This Thomas Wolfe chapter in his opened my eyes to the enor­book, Jason's Voyage: The mous amount of material still Search for the Old World in untouched in Wolfe's scholar­American Literature. A Study ship," he said. of Melville, Hawthorne. Henry Serving as the director of the James. and Thomas Wolfe .. Notre Dame Foreign Study 
As a result of 15 years of re­Program in Innsbruck, Austria, search in both the United States from 1982-85 gave Lanzinger and Europe, Lanzinger's article the opportunity to trace the Eu­appeared in the fall 1992 issue ropean paths of American writ­
of The Thomas Wolfe Review, ers in many European capitals. according to Lanzinger. "This was a very revealing ex­
A jury of leading scholars on perience," he said. Thomas Wolfe selected The annual Zelda Gitlin Liter­Lanzinger's article as the best ary Prize of the Thomas Wolfe publication on Wolfe that year, Society was established by Paul and awarded him the Zelda Gitlin, of the Wolfe Estate, in Gitlin Prize. memory of his wife in 1982, 
Lanzinger's book, Jason's according to Lanzinger. Voyage , recounts the Grand The literary prize will be offi­Tours of four major American cially presented at the annual authors: Wolfe, Melville, meeting of the Thomas Wolfe Hawthorne, and James. Society in New Orleans at the 
"These tours were aesthetic end of May. 
:, 9PBQ The Observer page 3· 
Weiss speaks to Holy Cross Sisters 
By MICHAEL WORKMAN 
News Writer 

Holy Gospel readings that tell of tears shed by Jesus may have more than an obvious, lit­eral meaning , according to Herold Weiss, a member of Saint Mary's Department of Re­ligious Studies for the past 23 years. 
Weiss gave a lecture entitled "Jesus Wept" in the fourth part of Lenten-long series of guest lecturers honoring the Sisters of the Holy Cross at Saint Mary's Wednesday afternoon. Weiss spoke about the Gospel of John's account of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead. 
"The Gospel of John is a highly constructed literary piece that was written by so­phisticated literary people who understood the various levels ofliterature," Weiss said, 
The Observer/ T.J. Harris Dr. Herold Weiss lectured at Saint Mary's yesterday as part of a His discussion was focused Lenten lecture series running from March 3 -April 7. 
on John 11:35, which reads, He went on to explained how for Jesus. 
"And Jesus wept." This verse Jesus' weeping was an "To sentimentalize for Jesusis not as simple as it appears, example of the Gospel author's is ridiculed by the author ofaccording to Weiss. 
use of irony and sarcasm. He John," he said. "We feel good"Was Jesus weeping out of explained how the author when we sentimentalize for Je­
sorrow for the death of his 
made it appear that Jesus was sus, however it is laughable for friend, or was Jesus crying out grieving for the loss of his thinking that Jesus was upsetof frustration because of man's friend, Lazarus, but in reality over something that he couldlack of faith and his sinful­
the author was possibly have prevented in the first
ness?" Weiss asked. 
mocking those who felt sorrow place." 

Scam artist cons three students 
BY SARAH DORAN plexion, Hurley said. vincing and very friendly," Associate News Editor The man stopped two men telling them that he was em­and a woman in the D-2 park­ployed at the baseball stadium 
Three Notre Dame students ing lot at 1:43 a.m. and intro­construction site on campus, gave $48 to an unidentified duced himself as David Green. according to Hurley. male yesterday morning after He told the students that his They later contacted Security, the man convinced them he car was at the station and, as who discovered that the suspect needed the money to to pay for they took him there, told them did not have a car at the Amoco car repairs at an Amoco station that he needed $32 for work Station, said Hurley. on US 31, according to Chuck done on his car. He then added Similar incidents have been Hurley, assistant director of that he did not have money for reported in Roseland, South Notre Dame Security. gas and oil, said Hurley. Bend and elsewhere around St. 
The man was described as a The students went to an Au­Joseph's County. Hurley said 30-year-old black male about tomated Teller Machine to take students who see a man fitting 5'9" tall and 165 pounds with a money out of the bank to give this description should contact noticeable scar on the left side the man, Hurley said. Students Security immediately. of his nose and a rough com-said the suspect was "very con-
THE noTRE DAmE FRffiiLY 1/ InVITED... 



-~------~----~--­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, April 1 , 1993 
Press 
continued from page 1 

Brooks was concerned about what the adverse publicity could do to his position in the uptoming NFL draft, in which he is projected as a first round pick. 
"Most definitely I'm con­cerned," he said. "I'm quite upset about the picture that's been painted. This puts a blem­ish on my character." 
"There were some accusa­tions made. Nobody ever made the effort to talk to me. I never had the chance to tell my side of the story. This whole thing has been blown out of propor­tion. It was just a case of me not knowing what the law in Indiana was." 
DON'T SPEND AN HOUR IN THE 
Future 
continued from page 1 
Education Program, Campus Ministry and the Center for Spirituality. 
•The 
inc! usion of Saint Mary's Catholic intellectual le­gacy in its curriculum in order to promote its Catholic back­ground. 

•The 
addition of the Dean of Faculty and the Associate Dean of Faculty in the Faculty Assembly. 

•The 
consideration of feminist scholarship when recruiting new faculty. 

•The 
reevaluation of the ori­entation program so that needs of first year students can be better met, and the addition of a mentoring program in which all first year students would be assigned a faculty member to advise her throughout her first year of studies. 

•The 
construction of a Secu­rity and Visitors Center closer to the main entrance to the campus. 


Horning has been planning merger between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame in 1971. 

Five task forces were devel­oped to investigate the areas of Administrative Affairs, Aca­demic Affairs, Fiscal Affairs, Student Affairs, and College Relations. 
These task forces were fur­ther divided into study groups who studied and observed the needs of the Saint Mary's Community. They were also asked to predict how those needs might change and make recommendations on how to prepare for them. 
The LRPCC then converted these observations and studies into a working draft of over 30 recommendations to be pre­sented to the Board of Regents. The LRPCC plans to meet again in late June. 
Horning said that the com­mittee is making progress. 
"We're 8/10 of the way there. We're integrating the ideas and considering some of the pro­posals and weaving them in. We're wrapping it up," he said. 
Horning emphasized that the recommendations are very ten­tative at this point and there is 
Students 
continued from page 1 
their host. "It is one of the ca­sualties of the weekend; we need to keep them going." 
Iris Outlaw, Director of Mi­nority Affairs, said that having hosts and hostesses of the same ethnic race gives visitors "a more honest impression of what's happening to their eth­nic race." She said that visitors are more likely to be exposed to organizations of their specific race. 

Events for this weekend were planned by a student committee beginning in December, and additional students have volunteered their time to help with the events of the weekend. 
The committee was chosen and is led by student coordina­tors Michael Swanson and sophomore Norma Hernandez from Pasquerilla Hall East. 

Swanson and Hernandez have been actively communi­eating with prospective stu­dents all year, according to Swanson. 
They agreed that it is benefi­cial to have students at Notre Dame interacting with high school students. 
In addition to visiting high schools during October break, they have kept in touch with prospective students all year. 
"[Prospective students] see us as friends at Notre Dame, someone they can talk to," Swanson said. "They feel more comfortable asking about things. They know I'm going to give them an honest answer. They know they can always call on us if they have any ques­tions." 
Events include a tour of the campus, a speech by University President Father Edward Mal­loy, social events, including Latin Expressions and the Col­legiate Jazz Festival, and a Mass. The visitors' travel is ar­ranged for them, and their travel and meals are paid for by Undergraduate Admissions. 
SHOWER! 

no official status. He also com­ception of the LRPCC which first 
committee chair since the in­

mended the work of all com­met in September of 1991 at 
mittee members involved in the the request of President William 
process. He said he knew from Hickey. Horning served as 
the start that the group would 

~\~GrtON Coo. 
work well together. committee following the failed 
chairman on a similar 

V~ Cal/255-7777 ~/' 
Do you have the summer time
Heu Beth Goodwio! 
school blues?? Come live at Remington Court during· summer
Happu April 

school, and relax in luxury between classes. We have junior one
Fool's Dau 

bedrooms that will give the privacy
and 

ofyour own home. Come lay by our pool and study, or just to relax. We
Beware of the 

have models open daily-come out and take a look!
MOIST BROWNIE 

Located on Main Street between
MONSTIRII 

McKinley and Edison 
CLASS OF 1994
o/engan .91. CeCeorar 
Come Celebrate 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S
La 
The 
Apply now for positions 
!Misa c£e tJJomingo tJJe !Rgmos 
Palm Sunday Mass 
on the 1994 Senior Formal Committee 
Applications are available at the Junior Class Office (2nd floor LaFortune) or Haggar Center 
Questions: Call Stacy Jones at 
11:30 a.m. 
634~4858 or Angie Fitzgibbon 
'Breen-Pfr.if{ips Cfwpef 

at 284~5121
Coro 'Prima '!lora Campus MiniJtry 
~s 
MNI57RY 

Applications due April 6 

Thursday, April 1, 1993 The Observer pageS 
After lengthy deliberation, the Faculty Senate has the following response to the Report of the Committee on Academic Life. The Senate's response is an effort to encourage reflection and dialogue on some of the issues raised during the process of the Colloquy for the Year 2000. As a further part of that reflection and dialogue, the Faculty Senate will sponsor a forum April 13th at 4:15 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. This faculty forum will briefly put the Senate's response in the context of the April Accords on the faculty's role in University governance. The faculty will then have the opportunity to raise their concerns with the Report itself as well as with the Senate's response. All are welcomed and encouraged to attend. 
FACULTY SENATE RESPONSE TO THE REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ACADEMIC LifE 
The Faculty Senate discussed the report of the Committee on Academic Life at its meetings on March 1, March 15 and March 22. In the wake of those discussions, the Academic Affairs committee of the Senate has drafted this response. It is essential that elected faculty members be directly involved in this process. The Senate is aware that many hours of discussion underlie the current document, based on numerous meetings with various constituencies on campus, including faculty. We must stress at the outset, given the time constraints imposed on the Senate, that the Senate's response is necessarily very selective. We deliberately focus on the primary areas of concern and recognize that this focus overshadows wide areas of agreement and support. 
The Faculty Senate concurs with the tone and direction of the report of the Committee on Academic Life. That concurrence, however, is subject to the concerns and reservations noted below. These concerns fall into four general areas: the Catholic character, the academic culture at Notre Dame, the issue of priorities, and implementation. The remainder of this response summarizes briefly some of the major issues regarding each of these areas, concluding with two additional items of concern. 
THE CATHOLIC CHARACTER OF NOTRE DAME. The Senate concurs with the report's concern to maintain the Catholic character of Notre Dame, recognizing that the task of fostering that Catholic character will fall increasingly to the faculty, and that it is appropriate that it do so. Nonetheless, the Senate is concerned that sections 2A and 2B do not adequately articulate the complementary relationship of the intellectual and Catholic character of Notre Dame. Some are concerned that the emphasis in recommendation 1 could be read as stressing the Catholic character in isolation from our intellectual mission. It is imperative that these concerns be addressed simultaneously. Thus, we recommend that the second sentence be replaced by the following: 
All who participate in hiring faculty must be cognizant of and responsive to the need to recruit a faculty that achieves the highest level of excellence and that includes a proportion of Catholics sufficient to foster the Catholic intellectual tradition. 
This formulation attempts to address why Catholics might be more likely to help foster the Catholic character of the University. Moreover, the use of the phrase "proportion ... sufficient" to accomplish such a task recognizes that the matter of numbers could significantly vary from discipline to discipline. This wording also better captures the spirit of the preceding section. 
The implications of Recommendation 1, as currently stated in the report on Academic Life, and the procedures to implement Recommendation 1 provoked substantial heated discussion in the Senate. The sources of concern: First, how is the recommendation to be implemented? In the past six months we believe we have seen substantial progress in terms of communication and cooperation with the administration in many areas. The Senate wants this spirit to extend to this dimension as well. Rather than suggesting that a policy be implemented by the administration and simply executed by each department, the Senate thinks it would be more fruitful for each department to initiate the process and for the administration to work with each department in implementing the policy. Second, the Senate is concerned that the word "predominate" implies a focus principally on numbers. While it may be necessary for some departments to have a majority of Catholics and some departments perhaps to have a predominant number, it also is possible that some departments may have few. The number of Catholics should be tied to the goal of fostering and deepening the Catholic character of Notre Dame rather than being tied to a simple numerical formula. Third, the Senate is concerned that this recommendation be implemented in a way that respects the pluralism within the Catholic community itself as well as within the broader community. The vitality of Catholic intellectual life must not be compromised by political considerations. And finally, the Senate is concerned that the difficulty -some argue the impossibility -of recognizing "dedicated and committed Catholics" at the entry level could lead to abuses in the process. 
ACADEMIC CULTURE AT NOTRE DAME. To reiterate an oft~cited faculty concern, there appear to be a number of ways in which the campus culture does not always contribute and sometimes may actually impede the pursuit of academic excellence. For example, the Colloquy report on Academic Life does not mention the library until Section 4 on infrastructure, although the library is a key component of the academic life of a university. The library is no more infrastructure than is the faculty, and a focus on the academic culture would suggest a · central role for both. Second, undergraduates are not sufficiently integrated into the research and scholarship of the faculty. One symptom of this lack of integration is that the University's undergraduates recently have had too little success in competing for national fellowships. These two examples suggest that the academic culture at Notre Dame needs to 
be examined in substantially more detail so that we can take steps to 
enhance and improve the educational experience at Notre Dame. 
We are encouraged by the section on internationality and recommendation 18, especially its emphasis on enhancing faculty presence in residential life and establishing a bookstore commensurate with the Universities needs and aspirations. We further urge that the University Press be subvened in a manner commensurate with the scholarly aspirations of this University. 
PRIORITIES. There are two issues under the heading of priorities: What does the Colloquy report imply about priorities among all the proposed projects? and what should be the process of determining those priorities? 
First, on the priorities themselves. Section 4 of the Academic Life 
report appears to be merely a wish list of the academic units' major . desires, and says nothing about what priorities should exist among the 
centers, structures and new initiatives given that we do not now have 
the funds to undertake all and may not achieve that level of funding 
even with the next funding campaign. The Senate urges that the library 
be high on the list of priorities and that the library be explicitly included 
in all aspects of future strategic planning. The Senate further judges that 
graduate education needs substantial additional funding to compete at 
the level the University has targeted. The Senate notes that while 
section 4 details initiatives for research and graduate education, this 
section largely is silent on undergraduate education. We view this 
omission as a major oversight of this report. 
The Senate also is concerned about a certain tension within the 
report that follows directly from the lack of priorities. What is the 
relative priority of undertaking "bold new ventures" versus enhancing 
existing "centers of strength"? The report is unclear on this crucial point. 
For example, page 4 of the report notes those centers of excellence that 
need to be adequately supported while page 38 details the 
recommendation for a Ph.D. program in the College of Business 
Administration. 

Elected faculty need to be involved directly in determining priorities. 
The Senate applauds Recommendation 19 to "commission a 
comprehensive strategic plan for enhancing research and scholarship at 
Notre Dame." The Senate calls for elected faculty representatives to 
participate in such a planning process in the continuing spirit of 
communication, cooperation and collegiality. In addition, procedures 
involving consensual discussion after bona fide attempts to measure 
quality would help departments to put their particular plans in context 
-the context of their college as well as of a Catholic university. The 
Senate presumes that the expanded PAC committee will concern itself 
with such questions in a continuing fashion. 
IMPLEMENTATION. A clear weakness of this report is the lack of focus on implementation. We have seen too many task force reports and studies fail in this regard. Our concerns focus on two issues. First, the ambiguity of language in places: (recommendation 1) how do we assess "dedicated and committed"?, (recommendation 4) how do we "encourage such excellence by offering appropriate incentives"?, how do we recognize and reward good teaching? Secondly, these are calls for specificity which understandably cannot be spelled out in such a report, but will need to be so in practice -a practice that must be shared and developed into a living tradition. It is imperative that the various consultative bodies be galvanized in this effort. Simply stated, the faculty need a structured and central role in the implementation of this report, in keeping with a proper interpretation of Recommendation 19. 
******** 
Two additional concerns were of significance to the Senate. The 
first stems from the tone of the mission statement, and specifically with 
the phrase "We on the faculty ... " in the first sentence of paragraph 5 of 
the Academic Life report. While the thrust of this mission statement is 
acceptable and while many on the faculty have made substantial 
contributions to the process of the Colloquy, this document is not itself 
of the faculty because the faculty participating in the Colloquy were not 
elected by the faculty. 

The second concerns the section on "Personal and Professional 
Conduct" on pp. 4~5. At one level, it is incontestable that "teachers and 
scholars must maintain a high standard of personal and professional 
conduct." Nevertheless, there remains concern regarding the range and 
inclusiveness of the language here. If Notre Dame intends its guidelines 
on such matters to be at variance with those of the AAUP then the 
points of disagreement should be made clear. If Notre Dame's guidelines 
are the same as the AAUP's then that also should be made explicit. In 
addition, the Academic Articles should be cited at this point to give a 
specificity which this document need not have. These concerns are in 
the spirit of clarity on maqers which may indeed involve some delicate 
points of conflict between professional practices and, say, Catholic 
teaching and practice, so vagueness can invite a certain trepidation. 
page 6 The Observer ·-· Thursday,..ApriU..~ 
Brandon Lee killed on movie set 
WILMINGTON, N.C. (AP) ­Actor Brandon Lee, son of the martial arts movies legend who died at age 32, was hit by a projectile and killed Wednesday in an accident on the set of the movie he was starring in. 
Lee, who was 27, was struck in the abdomen when a gun rigged to shoot blanks fired the object. He died at New Hanover Regional Medical Center, where he had undergone surgery. 
The actor was starring in "The Crow," an action-adventure film based on an adult comic book of the same name. He was playing a rock star who is murdered by a gang then comes back to life with supernatural powers to avenge his death and reunite with his fiancee. 
Executive Producer Bob Rosen said the accident happened during the filming of a flashback scene. Lee was standing about 20 feet from the gun when it was fired. 
Lee's father, Bruce, died in 1973. 
Police were investigating Wednesday's shooting, though they classified it as accidental. 
"After doing incredibly difli· cult stunts on this movie, we were doing something incredi· bly simple," Rosen said. "It was not really in any way what one would think of as a dangerous scene." 
When a blank is fired, a piece of soft wadding normally comes out of the gun, not a projectile, Rosen said. "I've never heard of anything like this before. I don't know how it got in there," he said. 
Filming in Wilmington began Feb. 1 and was to conclude next week. 
A series of mishaps have marred production since the first day, when a worker touched a high-voltage wire on a studio back lot. He remains hospitalized. 
The magazine Entertainment Weekly reported in its April 2 issue that other problems have occurred during the eight weeks of production: a disgruntled employee drove a car through the studio's plaster shop; a construction worker slipped and drove a screwdriver through his hand; a storm damaged sets; and a publicist 
Familiar voice will answer NYC emergency telephones 
NEW YORK (AP) -Dial 1 for murder? 
Starting Monday, calls to cer­tain New York City police sta­tions to report anything from murder to mischief will get a uniform response: "If you have a touch-tone phone, press 1 now." 
The increasingly familiar. disembodied voice of automated answering will be heard during a 90-day test in three of the Police Department's 75 precincts. 
If, as hoped, it overcomes logjams at busy station house switchboards, it could be ex­panded to the entire depart­ment, said Michael Amarosa. 
director of police communica­tions. 
HThere's a lot of frustration in the public and even the de­partment, getting through to the precincts," Police Commis­sioner Raymond Kelly told re­porters Wednesday. 
He said that often when calls come in, there is "nobody really available to hand them off to." 
Police in Portland, Ore., and a number of smaller depart­ments, including Salem, Ore., and Vallejo, Calif., have adopted the system. San Francisco considered installing such a system early this year, but instead is concentrating on overhauling 911 service. 

WITH THE 3.9 IS 21! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ON 
AND 
BRYAN, 
THE 
MARA 
BOX 


was injured in a minor car accident. 
Brandon Lee was 8 when his father died. Though the cause was listed as a brain edema, or swelling of the brain, the coro­ner described it as "death by misadventure" and rumors circulated that drugs or other factors caused his death. 
Besides a series of martial arts movies, most filmed in Hong Kong, Bruce Lee also appeared in segments of the "Batman" television series and starred as Kato in "The Green Hornet" series. 
Brandon Lee was born in Oakland, Calif., and moved to Hong Kong with his parents when he was 6. After his fa­ther's death, he returned to the United States and attended Emerson College in Boston. He studied acting at the Strasberg Academy in New York and Los Angeles. 
The younger Lee starred with David Carradine in "Kung Fu: The Movie" but said that he was more interested in other roles than in following in his father's footsteps. 
Clinton may be swilling at last call on 'Cheers' 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Every­one wanted to belly up to the bar for Wednesday's filming of the final "Cheers" episode ­even President Clinton. 
But despite an invitation to join stars Ted Danson, Kirstie Alley and other cast members of the long-running NBC sit· com, White House officials said Clinton would be unable to fly in from Washington. 
"We can't do it this week," said Dee Dee Myers, Clinton's press secretary. But she hinted that Clinton may somehow be part of the show. 
"I think there may be ways," said Ms. Myers. She didn't elaborate, and "Cheers" rep­resentatives were unavailable Wednesday. 
The 90-minute finale, which airs May 20, was scheduled to be shot Wednesday night at Paramount studios. Former cast member Shelley Long was to make a return visit. 
A White House aide who spoke on condition of anonymity said Clinton would like to appear but the matter was cQillplicated by his father­in-law's ill health and by his April 3-4 summit meeting with Russian President Boris Yeltsin. 
"Cheers" has attracted other politicians: former House Speaker Tip O'Neill and former Sen. Gary Hart have made ap­pearances. 
There is precedent if Clinton were to appear on a prime time entertainment show. In 1968, President Nixon solemnly intoned "Sock it to me" on the variety series "Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In." 
Clinton has his own Holly­wood ties: He made use of talk shows and the expertise of TV producers and close friends Harry Thomason and Linda Bloodworth-Thomason during the 1992 campaign. 
"Cheers," which has been on the air since September 1982, remains a top-rated show for third-place NBC and is the longest-running comedy cur­rently on television. 

The annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament began on Wednesday, March 31, 1993. 
Persons who would normally park their vehicles in the A 7 lot, the Lyons courts, or use the Stepan courts as overflow parking will be prohibited from parking in those areas during the course of this tournament. Alternative parking will be in the A9 and A I 0 lots on the inner campus, and the B 1 and B2 lots on the perimeter of campus. 
The Bookstore Basketball Tournament Committee and the University Security/Police Department ask for your cooperation during this festive time for the student body and university community. If you have questions about this or other parking related matters, please call the Security Services Office at 631,5053. 

CLASS OF 1993 SENIOR INFORMAL friday, Aprill6, 1993 St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Scott St. and Western Ave. 
7:00 p.m. til Midnight 
• Full Sit Down Polish Wedding Banquet 
•Two 
Great Bands: Dissfunktion Bughaus 

•"The 
Best Party of the Year" 


$15°0 single $25°0 a coupleTickets at LaFortune Desk 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, April 1, 1993 page7 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1993-94 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief David Kinney Managing Editor Business Manager Kevin Hardman Brian Kennedy 
News Editor ......... Meredith McCullough Advertising Manager .... Anne Heroman Viewpoint Edltor ...... Rolando de Aguiar Ad Design Manager ...... Steph Goldman Sports Editor ........... George Dohrmann Production Manager ........... Kathy Fang Accent Edltor ................ Kenya Johnson Systems Manager ............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ....................... Jake Peters OTS Director ................. Brendan Regan Saint Mary's Editor .... Jennifer Habrych Controller ......................... Mark Meenan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631·8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631·7471 
Living Church must critique its past 
Dear Editor: of women in the priesthood was embody the Christian message 
I feel I must respond to two not euphoric. It was an ex­of love and equality it pro­articles in last Friday's Ob­pression of how sad it is that we claims. Father Griffin in his ar­server on the subject of women cannot, in the eyes of the Pope, ticle "An Argument Defending in the priesthood. Robert come together as a Catholic the Catholic Church," states Wainwright's letter entitled, community to discuss our con­that it is wrong to argue that "Why Do You Support This cern for this community. ordination into the priesthood is Cause?" spoke of the lecture This concern involves a a "right" denied women. No one given by Bishop Francis Mur­community whose members are can claim they have a right to phy of Baltimore. I must first not all allowed to serve as they be ordained. Entering the point out that this lecture did feel called. I think the fact that priesthood requires a dedicated not outline specific arguments supporters of women in the individual and special calling. for allowing women to be or­priesthood like myself do not Father Griffin, what would you dained, which may have been consider leaving the church say to women who do feel that the source of some of his dissat­shows how deep this concern is they have been called to the isfaction. and how strong our love of the priesthood? Why do you assume 
Instead, it was a report given church is that we would risk that women would not want to by a bishop of actions he and defiance in order to express our be ordained as celibates and other bishops had taken to pain. that they would bring with them support women and speak out a liberal agenda? I do not on issues affecting women This letter asks me to con­understand why you consider within the Church. Bishop sider if I am "really concerned the ordination of women and Murphy's message was one of about the church and the salva­those who support it a threat to encouragement. He ac­tion of souls, or am I just a the church. knowledged that there is a rebel who wants to fmd any ex­significant amount of concern cuse to subvert ancient tradi­You ask, "what· shape would being voiced on the church's tion with the trend of the mo­the church be in after undergo­position towards women and ment." I must ask the author ing the revolution that the lib­that we should continue to dis­how he can call the equality of erated women would like to cuss these issues. humanity Jesus proclaimed as impose on it, as soon as they 
Robert Wainwright's letter he spoke to Samaritans, lepers start wearing mitres?" I will tell described a crowd of support­and women a trend of the mo­you what I envision. ers basking in the fact that dis­ment. Following Christ's ex­cussing women's ordination ample is the foundation on I envision a church which was an act of disobedience to which the church was built. He understands the experience of the Pope. The laughter at the asks me to express my concern all its members and can fact that Bishop Murphy admit­in the spirit of Christ. I am. Only address and minister to their ted he had not been given by allowing women into the needs. I see a church not unlike permission to discuss the topic priesthood will the church the dorm masses here at Notre 
11-------r-:...,r-r---------,~~-:-~----w Dame where the sense of 
community is eminent, where dorms such as my own have consciously chosen to use inclusive language and where our rector, R.A.s and other women guests give homilies. I see a living church not afraid to critique its past or change its future as it constantly strives to live in the example of Christ. 
Claire Kriens Pasquerilla West March 29, 1993 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY



Accent 
page 8 Thursday, April 1, 1900 
Aname brand reun·ion 
The Generics' Notre Dame graduates gather for 'The Gig '93' 
By JIM VOGL Accent Writer 
"The true test of creativity is the occupation of generic space. " 
-Brian Grunert 
College bands come and go, but The Generics are coming back again. 
The band whose nucleus con­sisted of '93 graduates Dave Geist, Brian Grunert and Dennis Wolf, will return to the area for a reunion this Friday and Saturday at Bridget's. 
Due to graduation, foreign studies programs, time commitments and egos, most college bands face identity crises and usually disband within a year. 
But The Generics non-image still survives today, thanks in part to a concept that came to 
'There's generic bread, coffee, and there's nothing wrong with being a generic band.' 
-Brian Grunert, member of The Generics 
Wolf in a dream one night. 
From this idea, Grunert and singer Damien Shiner, both de­sign students, rendered an em­blematic UPC bar code symbol for plain-lettered white posters. Band members would wear white T-shirts with "DRUMS," "VOICE," etc. printed on the front. 
Since then, a number of changes occurred underneath these "uniforms" in the 28 months of the band's existence. Yet through it all, the band maintained a resilient, consistent character. 
Here is a histography of the band's personnel changes: 
•Feb. 1990: bassist Brian 

if::·>·::::~~:~. ~: .~.:~:·:~,·.:.:·.:::··.:·:·.::..::.,1.,,1,,l '~:::'·'::•:.·::·::::~:·:·.1 
,·.,'.. 
•••••••.•
·~\=:·:::.~)lll . :­
REUNION theG 

The Generics will pertorm their reunion this Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3, at Bridgets. 

Grunert, singer Damien Shiner and drummer Dennis Wolf broke away from a "cheezy metal band" known around campus as "Calcutta Rain" to form The Generics. They then recruited guitarist Dave Geist from another band. 
Aras Ulenas responded to an ad in the paper and joined the band as keyboardist. "They heard my name and weren't sure what to expect of me, just some Indian guy who probably wears a turban and plays around with all kinds of electronic equipment," Ulenas said. 
•April 1991: Shiner graduated. Thirty vocalists tried out to replace him, and the band decided to keep two-Anne Heaton, who went to Spain in the fall of 1991, and Jeff Burgis. 

'The friendship, the love of music bonded us eveo though we've 
::·=:#jb·:. . : ·,:, ·:=·=~fW&>i' h ·~~~:=~,:r,:::­

spentso muc trme apart*and changed.' 
1t*­
•.>:!i~~rian Grunert, 
' member of The Generics 


•August 
1991: Grunert went to London for a semester. 

•September 
1991: "When I'm involved in music, I don't need to eat or sleep," said Geist to 


hisfellow band members. With strong advice from his father, Geist took some time off to improve his academic standing. 
Jim Siwek, a friend of Geist's, stepped in to play lead-guitar full-time. Geist continued in a managerial role, contributing occasionally as bassist and backup guitarist. 
The changes did have a few negative effects. "Instead of pushing forward, we spent a lot of time relearning songs. That's one reason we slipped into playing dances our second year," Ulenas explained. "We were more geared toward that type of cover music instead of experimenting with different types of music or doing more originals." 
But the band's concept stresses flexibility. "The type of music we wanted to cover was kind of generic," Grunert said of the band's routine, which included covers songs of U2, The Cult, Depeche Mode and New Order. "There's generic bread, coffee, and there's nothing w:ong with being a generic band," Grunnert said. 
The band also credited Wolfs organizational skills, booking regular gigs and taking care of the financial end. Also, Geist stayed on as a sound-man to keep the same original acoustics. But through it all, the biggest surprise was the immediate chemistry still remains today. 
"It's amazing to me how we all get along," Ulenas said. "We were not all originally friends, we were from different dorms, bad different majors, different backgrounds and different ideas... but there were never 
any  ego  problems,  none  of  
that."  
"The  friendships  that  

developed was the key," Grunert said. "We were able to feed of the energies of other members while we were playing." 
The original members have since been splintHred as follows: 
•Shiner works for the Schutte & Co. ad agency in his hometown of Buffalo, NY. lie formed an alternative rock band with two high school buddies called "Wisdom of Children," whieh will play with The Generics both nights. 
"We play all originals; it's sort of a reaction to The Generics, something more creative," he says. 
•Wolf 
has a computer job in Florida after finishing his stint with H.O.T.C. 

•
Ulenas is finishing his senior year at Notre Dame and plans to obtain his master's degree in music. 

•Geist 
works for Information Resources, Inc.. a computer de­sign company in Chicago. He 


. moonlights as the sound man for a suburban band called Paradox. and recently cut a six­song demo tape for them. 
"Music is what keeps me sane," Shiner admits. His wife, ND grad Tiffany Israel, also helps in that capacity. The band got together for the wedding in January and plotted the reunion at that time. 
Another inspiration for their reunion came from a memory from their first year together. That spring, they were joined at Senior Bar by "First Friday," a former Notre Dame group making their 25-year anniversary appearance. 
"Just to see those guys doing it after all those years was really incredible," recalled Ulenas. "One's now a professor, one's a lawyer, one's a doctor and one's still in the music industry. It kind of parallels us-everybody's got their own jobs, one's married, one's engaged and I'm the guy sticking in the music business." 
Grunert saw significance in his group's reunion event. 
"lt won't be as nostalgic as First Friday's reunion. But the fact that all the original members are getting together says something about the synergy of The Generics-the friendship, the love of music bonded us even through we've spent so much time apart and changed." 


\ 



J 
J 
j j 

The Absurder
VOL. 666 NO. 1 APRIL FOOL'S DAY 1993 THE 'INDEPENDENT' NEWSPAPER SCREWING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S (when we feel like it) 
Sex sculptures at Saint Mary's: The second coming 
SMC's Wilkinson stages coup at Absurder over tall, smug remarks 
By I. M. SPENT Absurder Art Critic 
Gasps, silence, and then thunderous applause. That was the reaction to the unveiling of Anita Lay's new sculptures to be displayed on the campus of Saint Mary's from now 'til eternity. Lays last sculptures, described by many as "those icky, bulbous, giant testicle things," were the rave of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community last fall. 
"I've never met a group of more sexually open, acceptive, and expressive individuals like the students here," exclaimed Ms. Lay at the press conference. 
"I can't wait for the reactions to my new creations," continued Ms. Lay, "I feel they explore core emotions that the students here are really in touch with." 
Students were so "in touch" with her last creations that the works had to be moved to a 
Irish Guard blows (up) Main Building 
By BUD WISER Irish Guard Drinking Buddy 
Five former members of the Irish Guard destroyed the Main Building today. 
The building, which houses most of Ever Lame's adminis­trative offices, was leveled. The Guardsmen even used blow torches to melt the Golden Dame. 
Unfortunately, no administra­tors or staff members were hurt. However, seven members of Mutual Masturbators at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, MMDN/SMC, who were holding a sit-in in the building, were killed. "They all died with smiles on their faces," said a firefighter at the scene. 
"We're just getting our re­venge on an oppressive and closed -minded administration," according to ringleader Jack Daniels. 
"So we poured Everclear down a few freshmen throats. What's the harm with that? That's been going on since my daddy was in the Guard. We certainly didn't deserve being kicked off the squad for that." 
According to witnesses, the 
By TRYIN'TO B. NICE Saint Mary's Mediator 
Saint Mary's Student Body President-elect MaryBeth ''I'm 6'10," but I'm Not That Tall" Wilkinson took over the helm at The Absurder today in a coup d'etat claiming she "would never be called smug again." 
After being criticized for her smug and self-righteous atti­tude at the debates for Student Body President in an Absurder editorial, she decided to take matters into her own hands. 
"The Absurder will never, ever call me smug again," she exclaimed as she tore up pic­tures of Absurder editors Moan 
N. Rant and Slave Skinny. ''I'm fighting the real enemy." 
Wilkinson, along with other Irish Guard rejects, stormed into The Absurder office in kilts and poured alcohol down 
~1\h\~ ~a1JJmrnc 

guarded area after a student like a Harley on a piece of bad response that I. Dick Geewhack, road." chief head of Saint Mary's Security, described as "volatile, "Saint Mary's students know explosive downright what they like," said Ms. Lay, orgasmic." "and they're not afraid to show 
Geewhack explained that one it." unidentified Saint Mary's Student response to the student damaged a work after unveiling of the two new rubbing up against it and sculptures has indeed been moaning, ''I'm going to ride you emotional. 
five students were dressed in black except for their plaid skirts. "It was the skirts that gave them away. No one else would wear that God-awful pattern." 
The Guardsmen then threw bottle rockets and cherry bombs at the building, shout­ing, "Death to the evil adminis­tration! Beer funnels are our friends!" They then were seen stopping people walking out of Walsh Hall and yelling, "Get over here! You need to drink a beer!" 
Campus Security director Saddam Hussein said that his m_en probably could have stopped the attack, but they were all tied up at South Dining Hall. 
"We were busting a guy who tried to sneak 3 apples out of the dining hall. That required all of our manpower. I wish we had been there. We could have confiscated their beer and had one hell of a party." 
Present Irish Guard Captain Johnnie Walker said that the other five Guardsmen planned to join them in a sign of soli­darity. "But we were just too hung over from the night be­
Skinny's throat. Taking tage of his intoxicated state the Guard-Wannabes were able to execute their plan flawlessly. 
"Now I have the freedom to be smug as often as I please," said Wilkinson. "And besides, I'm taller and stronger than that Skinny guy. I deserve to fore to make it," he said. 
University President "Touch My" Monkey Malloy said that it was too soon for him to com­ment on the situation. "Further study is warranted before I go and say something rash. I'll get the Colloquy working on it next week." 
Professor My Patty's SO'Hairy, Fuhrer of Student Af­fairs, said "Just you wait! I'll get you, my pretties. And your little dog, too!" Professor SO'Hairy became enraged when she was informed that the Guardsmen don't have a little dog. 
Student Body President Full O'Blarney said that he was shocked by the attack. 
"We plan to form a Senate committee as soon as possible to investigate the matter. They should have a report ready by next December." 
When most students were questioned about it, they said, "The Main Building? Oh, yeah, isn't that the place with the Dame? I didn't notice. I was too busy trying to sneak an open beer across the hall." 
run this 
Her short reign was over when Saint Mary's Student Body Vice President of Academic Affairs Lynn "MaryBeth Said I Am" O'Donnell confused the plans that Wilkinson hastily wrote to her on a piece of paper and called Notre Dame Security rather than members of the lo­cal media. 
O'Donnell claimed that she was sorry that she broke up the coup, but she said she was not consulted, nor did she under­stand Wilkinson's plan. "And besides, the microphone in my ear broke. I couldn't hear my instructions." 
After a seven-hour standoff with security, all of Wilkinson's co-conspirators surrendered. Security finally dragged her out of the building and took her downtown for booking. 
Wilkinson was placed on dorm arrest, under the 24-hour supervision of O'Donnell. 
After being released, Wilkinson and O'Donnell appeared in front of the Saint Mary's student body and local police at a press conference. Excerpts frgm the press conference appear to the right: 
"They make me think of ­well, you know -the "S" word," commented Mary Chaste, a Saint Mary's junior. "Oh gosh, I think I'm going to vomit." 
The two new sculptures, entitled "Phallus in Wonderland," and "Highway 69" will be displayed utilizing new security technology. 

1 

Sensors will be located around 
j

the pieces which will scan observers and will alert authorities to dramatic 
jincreases in select hormone levels. 
"We want to install them in dorms on both campuses," explained Geewhack, "and this 1 looks like a great opportunity to test them out." 
Ms. Lay is currently at work J 
~ 

on several new projects, 
~

including a piece called "How to 
J

Make Better Use of Your Small Household Appliances" and an entire series of sculptures made from jello called "Organs I Have Played." 
''I'm so glad this isn't a campus of repressed, guilt ridden individuals who deny their own sexuality," said Ms. Lay, "Their views of sexuality are so healthy: no immature, homophobic, misogynist, or unhealthy feelings here." 
Excerpts from press conference: 
Wilkinson: "You may have stopped me for now, but watch out Skinny. I'll be back." O'Donnell: "Yeah, she'll be back." 
Wilkinson: "And if you don't start treating me better in the newspaper, I'll give you something to write about." O'Donnell: "Yeah, she'll give you something to write about." 
Wilkinson: "And as for those lousy Irish Guardsmen's attempt to blow up the Main 
Building, all I can say is that if they had kept me, I'd have gotten the job done." O'Donnell: "Yeah, she gets the ~ob done." 




------------------~--·~---------~------­
page 2 The Absurder April Fool's Day, 1993 
POINTLESS COLUMN 
Masturbation: lt•s not just for kids anymore 
I'm talkin' 'bout sex. With me. Get it out there for everyone to see. 
C'mon. Everybody's doin' it. 

Gays and lesbians. after a hard-fought. courageous struggle, are openly a part of the American mainstream. Meanwhile, strange sexual fetishes are not even interesting anymore. Everybody's got one, or has a family member who does. They've all been on Oprah, Donahue or Geraldo. But the most popular sex act in the world is still stigmatized. 
But why? 

The time has come for masturbators to come out of the closet. 
Ever since Onan spilled his own seed, there has been a label stuck to masturbation. The label says "HELLO, My 
. . name is (your name), and I am Rolando de Agu1ar a loser." In our own culture, Viewpoint Editor an interest in the manual arts-----------­
indicates sexual immaturity. heterosexual inadequacy and, o course, a tendency toward homosexuality. But to paraphrase Woody Allen, masturbation is, at least, sex with someone you love. 
Maybe Woody isn't the best sexual role model (then again, who is?), but as we ease on down the road to the 21st century, self­stimulation seems like the only logical sexual choice. 
As AIDS makes its morbid rounds, claiming lives from all socioeconomic strata and destroying entire communities in our country and others, it has also given birth to a new awareness o safe sex. 
Masturbation is the only disease-free sex possible without a condom. Whether enjoyed alone or with a friend, the singles' alternative offers sexual pleasure with a negligible chance o contracting disease. 
But while safe sex requires a conscientious effort on the part o all parties involved, we live in a time when convenience and ease are often valued above all else. Unlike any other sex act, masturbation is exquisitely easy. 
Do it anywhere. Do it anytime. Try the bathroom before breakfast. The hotel lobby any time (bring a magazine). The dining hall at lunch. The grotto at dusk. How about the registrar's ollice at DART time? 
It takes very little talent. All you need is a decent sense o rhythm and a vivid imagination. 
You only have to please yourself. No experience necessary! 
What does it cost? Nada. There's no dinner to buy and no time to waste. Just get right to it. Strike a pose. 
We're still moving toward the global village. Personal relationships continue to be de-emphasized. Sexual interplay as we know it is changing drastically. Careers and long distances have already caused dilliculty in many stable sexual relationships. 
So the next time you can't reach out and literally touch someone, touch yourself. You won't be disappointed. 
The views expressed in the Pointless Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Absurder. Well, that's a lie. We're typing this with one hand, and we're damn proud of it. So there. 
Today's Staff: You've got to be kidding if you think anyone at The Absurder is going to take credit for this piece of trash. Our office was overthrown by Wilkinson, remember. 
Go ask her who did it. 
NOTE: This is only a joke. If this had been a real Absurder, we'd have more spelling errors and misquotes. If you are so sexually repressed or highty-tighty that you find this offensive, get a real life and some therapy. And if we lampooned you or your loved ones in this edition, don't try to sue us. We don•t have any money, and you'll only look stupid. 
IN BRIEF (BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT REAL IMPORTANT) 
Cheney. Fisher given Laetare Medal 
• The University of Notre Dame awarded this year's Laetare Medal to two outstanding American Catholics: L. Clifford Cheney and Paul Fisher. The award is presented to the American Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the church and enriched the heritage of humanity." Cheney's famous work for the advancement of the Jewish religion and Fischer's groundbreaking sociological research in an effort to end homophobia were recognized by University President Father Edward Malloy. "Notre Dame and the Catholic Church have benefited from the work of these two outstanding individuals," he said. 
Lonely Dog star has illegitimate litter 
• Letters From a Lonely Dog" will not appear in 
today's Absurder. Barbie OJill, noted Absurder canine correspondent, is being spayed after a recent, unplanned pregnancy. She'll be back next week, with another exciting column about unplanned pregnancies, 

smoking in bed, condom distribution and resistence to change within the Catholic Church. Baby gifts can be directed to The Absurder. 
Sinead to speak at '94 graduation 
• University President Father "Big Ed" "Tibetan Monk" Malloy has announced that noted Irish singer Sinead "Grow Some Hair" O'Connor will be the commencement speaker for the class of 1994. Known for her outsposken support of the Catholic Church, Malloy said O'Connor "seemed a natural to address the young lads and lassies next year." Student Union Board mismanager Pat Himself on the Back McCarthy shared the enthusiasm for O'Connor: "She's hot, and an Irish Republican to boot." McCarthy said SUB would likely issue a special Commencement '94 "The Shirt MXIII" in O'Connor's honor. 
OF NO INTEREST AT ALL, TO ANYONE 
• SO SAD, BAHHchus • If you like Cuban, Haitian • Please attend: The and other groups who don't like or Chinese food, come to a interdisciplinary drinking beer and puking from special luncheon at the Center subdepartment of the drinking beer are having a for Socialist Concerns today. department of Gender Bender dance Friday in the LaFortune "Celebrating Totalitarian studies, in conjunction with the Ballroom, formerly Theodore's, Regimes" will be the theme of program of Illiberal Studies, is where lots of other dances the multi-ethnic feast. You will sponsoring a lecture: "How to without alcohol or scamming be told what to eat, when to Meet, and Tame. a Post­take place. There will be chips chew and how much to pay. Modernist Theologian." and dips, but no chains or whips. And if you want dessert, you Admission is free, but If you want to have a good, clean will have to get on all fours and submission has a hefty pricetag. (yawn) time, call them. beg like a dog. Proceeds will be spent foolishly. 
SECURITY BEAT OFF 
Wednesday, March 31 students. Heis listed in fair condition with multiple bruises 
9 a.m. Saint Mary's Security in the groin region. did not respond to any of the 17. calls between Midnight March 11 a.m. A University Food 
30 and 8:59a.m. March 31. SerVices employee reported the 
9:15 a.m, A senior Saint theft of two apples and an orange from South Dining Hall. 
Mary's Secudty officer whose 
identity has not yet been Security officers pursued the determined was · found thief on foot and in seven squad unconscious in his office after 
cars. but were unable to catch meeting with a ~oup of angry her. She remains at large. 
Wilbur. Flynnstone guilty of fraud 
• The Absurder, via an insidious money trail, has linked Notre Dame's student government and Wilbur, of "Spelunker" fame, in an elaborate scheme to cover up an apparent student body presidential electoral victory by the cartoon character himself. President-elect Frank Flynnstone had no comment. Official student government tabulations show that Wilbur, who ran on the "Write-in is right on" platform, took 34.15 percent of the votes, qualifying him for the runof against Flynnstone. But elections commissioners, fearing credibility problems resulting from a cartoon student body president, paid Wilbur close to $10,000 to keep it to himself, banking on the belief that most Wilbur supporters were closet supporters. 
Clinton. Gore jump on handwagon 
• President Clinton, spurred on by recent editorial comment, has apparently jumped on the "Masturbation: The Sex of the 1990s" bandwagon with unusual enthusiasm. "At a time when all Americans face the dangers of AIDS and sexually transmitted disease, the benefits of masturbation are clear. It is change. It is sacrifice," he said yesterday. "And I ask you to sacrifice with me." Vice President Gore apparently has no qualms with the new policy, and has joined the President in post-press­appearance practice. (See p.4 of The Absurder.) 
Love the earth Feed the earth Defecate outdoors 
11:01 a.m. Security was unable to respond to three calls reporting armed robbery, attempted murder and a heart attack, as all officers were in hot pursuit of the apple thief. 
12:101 a.m. Security responded to a call that a Notre Dame squirrel was crushed by a disabled transport vehicle outside Sorin Hall. No other injuries were reported. 
CINEMA AT THE SNI~E rneU~l.Y rnESENTS: 
PORNFEST '93: 
ANight of hardcore erotica for you and your friends April 1, 7 p.m. Films include: 
The Beast In Me, The Beast in You Lady Does The Tramp Lana's Love Toys Sister Act II: Nuns Having Fun Deep Throat IV: I'm Choking Training Table, Minus Food Debbie Does the Dome Law Students in Lust MASTURBATION Exploring the Scent of a Woman Whip Me, Strip Me, Make Me Cry Alladin's Magic Wand 


More boring Abortion Letters• • • • 
April fool's Day, 1993 page 3 
The Absurder 

Undergraduates are really gross and should die and rot in hell 
Dear Absurder: 
I am sick and tired of all these no good beer drink,in', Papa John's orderin', Domino's pizza bashin', football ticket scalpin', tailgatin', all-game standin', hat wearin', J. Crew catalogue orderin', khaki pants/blue jacket/red tie weann , Parietals breakin', Brown Eyed Girl listenin', class ­skippin', SYR date screwin', cake-course takin', Linebacker dancin', scammin', mashin', hookin' up big timin', chickin strips eatin' , road trippin', blue and gold wearin', bookstore chargin', meatless baked ziti eatin', bar hoppin', fake i.d. usin', Absuder readin' while lunch eatin', 25 case buyin', fakin' like they're not studyin', drunkin' brawlin' students. 
I hope they all burn in hell while I live in peace and harmony with the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior. 
Amen. 
Justin Studyin Graduate Student April1, 1993 

Another stupid "join our task force" 
"The Absurder is a fine publication known
letter from student misgovernment 
Dear Absurder: 
As Imprudent Body President, I am writing to alert the student community about a new Imprudent Misgovernment committee double secret subcommittee task force focus discussion group. 
Along with Vice President O'Golly Am I Really Cotton Ball Queen O'Neill. I would like to cordially invite each and every one of you to join this important group to find a solution to two very serious problems at Notre Dame: The annual snowball fight and overeating at HPC and other Imprudent Misgovernment meetings. 
(The problem associated with Imprudent Misgovernment overeating has reached an all­time high this year, as many unofficials took it upon themselves to gorge on your, 
for its commitment to integrity, truthfulness 
the student body's expense at various meetings and 
and safe sexual solitaire. As for that self­
brainstorming sessions.) 
stimulation stuff, alii know is that we've been
Please join me and O'Golly for the first of several working 
doing it like that for years." 
dinner meetings at C.J.'s Pub and Tippecanoe Restaurant. 
-Edward Chip "Monk" Malloy 
With your support, we can 
University President 
make real changes at Notre Dame. 
Greg "Doin' The But" Butrus Imprudent Body President 
Go ahead, destroy your school's 
April1, 1993 

undergraduate reputation. Submit to a 
•DO DRUGS• LITIER•USE THE LORD'S NAME IN VAIN•BURP• 
•LEAVE THE LIGHTS AND WATER ON•FART•DON'T CALL YOUR MOM•LIE•FORNICATE IN PUBLIC•CHEAT•PUKE AND LEAVE IT• 
priest or to us: 
Misquote of the Day The Absurder 
·"" 
Notre Shame, IN. 46969 
The Absurder sometimes accepts de-classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame orifice. Sometimes we don't. If we don't, tough shit. De-classifieds might run if you bribe us, but we usually forget to put them in anyway.
De-classifieds 
Ads of a libelous nature or just plain stupid always run, but hey, do you think we care? 

wilh a shamrock bra tied on her  Wanted:  We need people that can  Tom Brokaw is a weiner! I need  tonight at 9 p.m., or we'll invite  Macri's,  
Don't read this  head while singing "You Shook Me  spell and wrile and have some  graduation tickets really bad and will  Howie Mandel back.  
All Night Long" in Spanish, please  sense of what a deadline is.  If you  do anything, yes anything to get  Student Union Board.  Sean, Please stop by my room and  
De-classifieds policy  call Jenny at 284-0UCH. I'll make it  have any of these, or have burned  some.  Why sittin the JACC when  We're through playing around.  pick up your underwear. You know  
The Absurder accepts classifieds whenever we God-damned feel like it, or when we're not all partying at The Commons. The charge is whatever we think we can bleed out of you. We want all your money in advance, because we don't trust any of you.  worth your while. out and left The Absurder, please you could be at Coach's? Call call us at the Sarcastic. Remember, Mike, Mike, Mike, or Mike @ 555­Found -Purple lace panties in my we are the oldest publication on I room after the Alumni Wake. I'll give campus! 1mperSOnalS them back if you go to my next I I SYR. Call Chip at 4-LOSR. . Free rent -.____________. I Want YOU I 2-room shanty available on Portage Congratulations, Sean and Molly!  Congratulations, Sean and Susie? When's it due? TOP TEN QUOTES FROM THE 12AORGY: 10. Would you have any Grey Poupon? 9. Come on in, Father Burtchaell.  where you left them. Rick To Joe with the Vanilla-lcehair, I am sorry I didn't grab your butt, but I thought I may have offended you because you are so shy. Maybe some other time, Yours. Bunny  -­ 
We reserve the right to censor anything we don't agree with, or anything we feel like messing up. We do that a lot, you know. Lost and never to be found  -· Excellent summer job opening. ND alum needs students to transport cash, liquor and other valuables across state lines. No resume necessary. Just call 1-900-999-9999 and tell them "Louie the Fish" sent you.  Ave. Only 20 miles from campus. Can hold up to 8 students (10 if they're graduate students). $500 per months. No need to worry about utilities-there aren't any. Call 222­SCAM. I (scalped)Tickets I  When's it due? To the young woman wearing a red skirt in the Library yesterday: I am totally obsessed with you. I will follow you everywhere you go until you agree to go to my SYR. Don't try to run. There's nowhere for you  8. GUMMI BEARS! GUMMI BEARS! GUMMI BEARS! 7. Wait a second. Let me unfold it. 6. This is against du Lac, isn't it? 5. Ray, get your hands off my sheep. 4. C4R8103, I love you. 3. Can I borrow that lawn mower?  Congratulations. Sean and Beth? When's it due? The Lord Blessed God Jesus Christ is our Savior and Redeemer King who will lead us to heaven and a safe haven. Prayer three times a  
Lost -Purple-lace panties. Sometime during the Alumni Wake. If found. please call Katie at 4-6969. HELP! I lost somelhing I can't get  WANTED: Your genetically pure, Irish Catholic newborn infant. We're white, upper-class ND/SMC grads and we're perfectly rich enough to care for the child that you, as a  TICKETS (Dream On) Will trade 2 Southern Cal GAs for your white newborn infant. Call Pat and Maureen at 555-CASH.  to hide. I'm always watching you. Congratulations, Sean and Maggie! When's it due?  2. I stuck my tongue in her mouth, and she said "Who are you?" 1 . After getting screwed all day, it feels great to get screwed all night.  day keeps the doctor away. Support the distribution of  
back at the Lafayette Square St. Pat's Day party. I'd at least like to remember what happened. If you remember seeing a girl with dark brown wavy hair in a green dress  good Catholic, shouldn't have had in the first place. We'll make it worth your while. Call Pat and Maureen at 555-CASH.  I need as many GA and student tix as you can give me. Sure, I'm going to sell them off at an outrageous profit, but, hey, it's a free country. Leave a message at 1-800-MY GREED.  SUB presents yet another boring speaker no one wants to hear. Hey, it's your money we're spending! Go to Morton Rottweiler's lecture on 9th-century Gregorian chants  I am looking for that great looking chick I hooked up with at Corby's. 10 was the clean-cut guy, wearing a polo and khaki pants. I really miss you and want to take you to  condoms by your local health center  

--------------~~-----c--­
Yes, another movie review ••• 
page4 The Absurder 
April Fool's Day, 1993 

"Rudy" Mania takes the nation by storm 
Fans go crazy over new film, millions take to the field to emulate "Rudy" 
By BULL S. HITT 
Absurder Movie Critic 

BEVERLY HILLS-After weeks of media hype, the long-awaited Tri-Star Pictures film "Rudy," described by film critic Roger Ebert as "one of the greatest American films ever made-a definite Oscar nominee." opened last night across the nation. 
And almost overnight, what is-being called "Rudy Mania" has begun. 
For weeks, Hollywood has been preparing for the arrival of "Rudy" with billboards, television ads, and mall appearances by the film's actors. But no one was prepared for the reaction that's followed. 
"I can't believe it. It's like a dream come true. They're say­ing I'm the newest American sex symbol-it's amazing," said Sean Astin. who stars as Rudy Ruettiger, a young University of Notre Dame football hopeful pursuing his goal of playing for the team. 
Astin, 21, has recently posed for covers of popular magazines including "Teen Beat," "Bop," and "Seventeen" and women across the country are scram­bling for copies. 
The "Rudy" craze is, indeed, 
sweeping the nation. Bloomingdale's is 
manufacturing the "Rudy" 
football jersey, Target Stores are selling "Rudy" paraphernalia including wind­socks, videos and "Attain Your Goals" cologne by the millions, and McDonald's is now making "Rudy Burgers" with football­shaped hamburger patties. 
Supermodel Cindy Crawford attended opening gala event at the Beverly Hills Hotel last night and said even she's jumped on the "Rudy" bandwagon. "Sean's incredible," Crawford said. 
"The sight of him in that Notre Dame letter jacket is enough to make me crazy. There's nothing I wouldn't do to meet him. Go Irish!" 
The gala was said to be "the Hollywood event of the year," by "People" magazine. Warren Beatty, Elizabeth Taylor, and Jack Nicholson were only some of the big Hollywood names that came to celebrate the dawn of the Age of "Rudy." 
The hotel was decorated for typical Fightin' Irish fans-Notre Dame posters, pennants, and blue and gold streamers filled could be found everywhere. 
But the highlight of the evening came when trained University squirrels performed an interpretive dance to the "Notre Dame Victory March." "I've never seen anything like it," said Bob Hope. "There's a helluva Iotta talent at that school." 
The Notre Dame family agrees, and has been overwhelmed by the support and excitement concerning "Rudy," according to the University's president, Father Edward Malloy. 
"Never in a million years did we think 'Rudy' would get this kind of amazing reaction," said Malloy. "But that's what Notre Dame is all about-making dreams come true. Rudy Ruettiger is not the only student here to have reached a goal. This University guarantees that all students get exactly what they want. That's our policy." 
Notre Dame plans to fund a yearly "Rudy" scholarship for underprivileged youth in addi­tion to building a new "Rudy" wing of the University bookstore to sell the new Calvin Klein "Rudy" line of clothing, Malloy added. 
Tri-Star Pictures has already begun filming a sequel to "Rudy," called "Rudy Goes Pro." The film is scheduled to be re­leased next Christmas. 
Amid all the hype, however, was the absence of Rudy himself. The reclusive inspiration for the film is reportedly miffed that Astin, and not him, has become the sex symbol. 
"Just because I'm older and a little pudgy doesn't mean I'm not sexy," Rudy told The Absurder. 


FEELING ALONE? FRUSTRATED? HORNY? 
We're MMND/SMC We can help! 
That's right, Mutual Masturbators at Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's College. We've been here for over 7 5 
years and we're still going strong thanks to duLac! 
Folks, we're a no jokes, all strokes kind of club and we 
want you to join us...its fun, free, and best of all SAFE! 
• 
''1D~,uubfarvF·· 

President Thrill Cliton and Vice-President AI Whore display support for MMND/SMC at a recent masturbation rally on campus. 
_· _NEXT '~BEATING:" ISTODAY, APRIL1ONTHE131h FLOOR OF 

<, _-_THE'BRARE, 
, 


:~CAU..1-D-WACK.()FffOR INFO. 
·~ ;ir--. ,., . ' '· ... : ' -. 
__ r o ' ...--. P..1,.... •• A. • r" 
••• (LfUl; ill1Ji; hffiuiA; a/UU ~~­
Advertisement paid for by Scholastic The official reading material for MMND/SMC 
Accent
Thursday, April 1, 1993 page 9 
Jazz Fest continues ND,s musical tradition 
By STEVE TANKOVICH "It is the oldest festival of its ever since the second year of Accent Writer kind and like so many things at the festival. Notre Dame, it has become a Fr. Wiskirchen has been a 
One of the best known college tradition," he said. "CJF is a strong force in keeping the celebrations of jazz is returning noble and proud tradition, one event going. He started off his to Notre Dame this weekend. based on the virtues of musical involvement with the program 
The 35th annual Notre Dame and educational experience. by bringing his then well-rec­Collegiate Jazz Festival will be "It is a tradition which has ognized high school jazz band held on Friday and Saturday at been kept alive by the to perform at the festival in Stepan Center. Thirteen dedication of students and jazz 1960, the second year of the collegiate ensembles will musicians from throughout the festival. perform. The groups will be nation," Hanson said. "He's a terrific guy. He's made judged by a distinguished panel The concert has previously the festival what it is today," of nationally recognized jazz been featured in down beat said Hanson of Fr. Wiskirchen. musicians. and Time magazines. This In a press release, Hanson 
The festival is considered by year's concert will again be expressed his gratitude to 
many to be an important event. featured in down beat. Father Wiskirchen: It has had national recognition One of the most important "Without Father George there and has drawn hundreds of figures in the festival's history is would be no jazz festival at 
bands from across the country Fr. George Wiskirchen, the Notre Dame," he said. "His over the years, according to director of the Notre Dame Jazz efforts for the festival and love Erik Hanson, chair of the 1993 Band. Fr. Wiskirchen has been of music have inspired many in jazx festival. with the festival for 34 years, the Notre Dame family, including myself." Eastern Illinois University Jazz Ensemble 
The festival had good backing ill William PattersonCollege Jazz Ensemble 
from the start. The editor of Western Michigan University Jazz Orchestra 
down beat magazine, as well as MichiganState University Jazz -Band f 
some other businessmen from Michigan State University Jazz Band I 
Chicago, helped to bring in 
~featuring Bunky Green, guest soloist 
some of the big names in jazz. In recognition of the event's with Dizzy Gillespie. He was In addition to the talent of the 
long and glamorous history, 
recording with Gillespie and judges, this year's festival will
1979 CJF chair, Joseph Kuhn 
Oscar Peterson as early as age feature a performance by
Carey, wrote a 17 5 page book 
18. His long career has included Chicago jazz legend Bunky
on the history of the festival. 
recordings with Duke Elington, Green. Green will perform with
The book was published in 
the Rolling Stones, Frank the Michigan State University
1986, and gives a year by year 
Sinatra, Kool and the Gang, Band on Saturday.
account of the performers at 
Quincy Jones and others. Tickets for the entire session
the festival, as well as the sig­
Allen is also well-established, can be purchased for $15 gen­
nificant figures and develop­
having performed with Jackie eral admission, or $7 for stu­
ments which occurred over the 
McLean, Benny Golson, Donald dents. Tickets are also available years. 
Byrd, George Coleman, Bran­to individual sessions at $8 ($4
This year's judges are as fol­
ford Marsalis, Randy Weston, students) for the Friday session, 
lows: Jon Faddis -trumpet, 
and Lena Horne. Freddie Hub­$5 ($2 students) for Saturday
Jimmy Heath -tenor saxo­
bard has called Allen, "...one of afternoon, and $6 ($3 students) 
phone, Mulgrew Miller -piano, 
the best young drum­for the Saturday evening
Rufus Reid -bass, Carl Allen­
mers ... playing with the maturity session. All tickets can be
The Collegiate Jazz Festival will be held at Notre Dame this weekend, drums. 
of someone twice his age... one purchased at the door or at theApril 2 and 3. Faddis worked for many years of my favorites." LaFortune Information Desk. 

G'day, mate! 
ND and SMC students celebrate Independence Day Down Under 
By ELIZABETH MARTIN But next year, who knows? however, never having had a And only a minimum of attended, was amazing. A barge Accent Writer Previously, the holiday has been War of Independence or a Civil Australian flags flew. on the Swan River, where the altered to accommodate avid War, and never having been One thing Australia and America's Cup was held, loosed It was undoubtedly a special fans with a three day weekend. invaded, does not associate her America do share is a a breathtaking array of 
day. Official celebration dates swing national day with the military. magnificent fireworks display. fireworks. 
People began to stake claims from January 26 (if it falls in Instead, a separate occasion As the sun began to set over The omnipresent announcer in the park as early as 10 a.m., the middle of the week) to the called Anzac Day , similar to Western Australia and stars welcomed the crowd and intro­aiming for a prime picnic spot nearest Monday. Memorial Day in the US, cel­began to shine, millions duced the event, the under a shady tree. Virtually ebrates that part of the gathered for the big show. All fantastically choreographed everyone had the day off Even within Australia itself country's heritage. were tuned into the same radio fireworks danced to the beat of -school was out of session and the date is not fixed. station which played the music. The display lasted businesses closed down (except Depending upon which 
songs from the sound­about an hour, with a finale of for the occasional liquor store). coast and which cit~ track of Jesus Christ sparkling gold. Australian's 
What was happening? you inhabit, you rna~! Superstar, Elton John, "oohed" and "aahed" just as Australia Day, of course! Not get your neares~ local bands, and a loudly as Americans watching your average national event, vacation on the 1st, piece of music of the brilliant sky.
though, Australia Day is vastly 26th, or the nearest Both Australians and
~:!!il:: Aboriginal origin.
different from the In­Monday. Sure, Aus~ ~~~--~~ !I There was , however, Americans have immense pride 
dependence Day celebrated in tralians coast to coas no singing of the Aus-in their respective countries. the US. have immense pride illj tralian national Both are dedicated to showing 
For starters, the United their country-but wh~ anthem. it in a big way, with fireworks, States' Independence Day is party for just one day Rather than having barbecues, and coolers full of observed on the same date, July when you can party for several small sky grog. 4, regardless of the day of the three? shows in practically ev­week, every year. Does anyone Another difference ery city, township, and Though the specific
In Fourth of July fireworks,
refute this? Not at all. Whether between Australia Day and the neighborhood, as happens in motivations for Australia Day
red, white, and blue are
the date falls on a Monday, Fourth of July is the noticeable the US, there was only one huge and Independence Day are not
generally the most prevalent
Tuesday, or Sunday, the date is lack of parades in Australia. show in the entire Perth area. the same, and though each are
colors. Americans start the day
permanent. Marching bands and festive Suburbanites came from far surrounded by different
by donning red, white, and blue
Australians, on the other -floats do not represent the afield to see one grand display. bureaucratic controversies, the
hats, shirts, socks, face paint,
hand, ever watchful for a paradigm of citizenship to the Consequently, the city was spirit of the two holidays is
and sunglasses. The effect,
potential three day weekend, average Aussie. The rowdy extremely crowded. similar. Both Australians and
while sometimes approaching
have not yet agreed on carnivals that glide through the The official fireworks an­Americans enjoy a good day (or 
tacky, creates a sea of national 
Australia Day's official date. streets in the US are not pre­nouncer, whom everyone tuned three) of intense relaxation and 
colors and expresses the
Some say the celebration sent here in Australia. Any into, captured the attention of an evening underneath the
tremendous pride Americans
should be held on January 1 to American kid can bank on all when he challenged the summer stars.
have for their country. 
commemorate the date all the being pegged with a tootsie roll crowd to make their own
The Australia Day celebration 
separate states in Australia by a parading veteran on the fireworks with headlights and
in King's Park yielded no such
united as a Commonwealth. Fourth of July. not so for Aussie flashlights. The shorelines
effect. Although Australia's
Others argue that January 1, "lads 'n' lasses." inevitably lit up_ and the effect
national colors are the same as
the date the first British ships A great deal of the American was awesome.
the USA's , there was no
landed in Sydney Harbour, national spirit focuses on war The Perth fireworks show,
predominance of reds, whites,
should be the day. veterans and pride in the which the 25 Notre Dame Aus­
or blues in the day's fashions.
This year the latter won out. country's military. Australia, tralia students enthusiastically 



page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 1, 1993 
always there for me to talk tale, the time off has also 
to." given her time to reflect on While adjusting to the differ­her future. ontinued from page 16 ences ofcollege life, Sherri has "When I was younger all I spent in different states while also had to adjust to a new wanted to do was be a profes­
Sisters 
BOSTON (AP) -The NBA's and Reggie Miller scored 12 o Sherri was still in high school, mental state regarding sional tennis player, and I hottest team struggled against his 16 points in the decisive third 
this season may be the tennis-the aspect of team. would have done anything to the coldest before Reggie Lewis quarter as Indiana beat 
farthest they have ever been "Up until now," she said, achieve that. Now, with the 
and Kevin Gamble combined for Washington for its lOth apart-at least as far as tennis "I've always focused on my time off, I've had a chance to 21 fourth-quarter points, lifting consecutive home victory. 
own personal results. It's reevaluate what I want-theis concerned. 
the Boston Celtics to a 109-103 The win moved the Pacers into 
While Sherri has stormed been a real good change into fact that in another year I'll be victory over Philadelphia on a virtual tie for eighth place and 
onto the scene, compiling an the team concept." graduating and beginning a 
Wednesday night. the final playoff spot in the But one aspect of the team career."
18-9 record at the Irish's num­

Lewis scored 33 points and Eastern Conference with Or­
which Sherri has missed this Another advantage of not
ber-two singles spot, Terri has 

Gamble 26 as the Celtics won lando, which , 
spent most of the year on the year is competing alongside playing has been the chance to their ninth straight game, their plays at 
sidelines nursing a back her sister Terri. watch her sister compete. longest winning streak since they Indiana Friday 
injury. "I know she would love to be "I've always liked to watch won 14 in 1985-86. night. 
"I figured that I would come playing and misses it," Sherri Sherri play, but I'm a nervous The 76ers, 1-11 in its last 12 Indiana blew 
said of her sister, "and I miss wreck during her matches,"
to Notre Dame and play," said 

games, were led by Hersey the game open Sherri, "But I didn't really having her playing. But the she confessed. 
Hawkins with 30 points. in the third . 
expect that I would be playing team has been a little more fo­While some may think that With the victory, the Celtics quarter, 
number-two. The year has cused, especially with Melissa tennis qas made them close, moved within two games of outscoring the 'R.,gla Millar 
gone really well, though. At Harris being gone, because we Crabtree feels that the Vitales Cleveland for the third playoff Bullets 34-15 
first I was very nervous about know we have to raise our are lucky the sport hasn't spot in the Eastern Conference 
how I would fit in with the rest level of play." come between them. 
and one game ahead of fifth­Miller, Smits and Detlef Schremp of the team, but now I'm more While Sherri's year has been "I had an older sister who 
place New Jersey. combined to make 10 of 11 shots one of improvement and opti­played for Miami (Ohio)," she
relaxed and comfortable." 

as the Pacers shot 68.4 percent mism, Terri's has been a sea­said, "and we always got
"I've also improved a lot of 

Platons120, Blazars111 (13 of 19) to Washington's 6-for-son of frustration. caught up on who was better
my game," she added. "I've 
20 effort. 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -Joe worked on my volleys and net "My back was starting to and tennis at times would Dumars scored 38 points, Washington, playing without game, and basically on becom­hurt already last fall, but I still come between that. With including five of Detroit's 12 3-center Pervis Ellison because of a played," she said. "Then I Terri and Sherri it's not like
ing more aggressive. My dou­

pointers against Portland. sprained left knee and point practiced over Christmas
bles play has also improved a that at all. That may be one Dumars had four 3-pointers guard Michael Adams, whose lot. break and the first few weeks reason that they're so and 28 points in the second half wife is expecting a child, was led of the second semester when I 
"My goals, coming in, were successful." 
as the Pistons tied a team record by Tom Gugliotta with 21 points. was taking medicine and And although the results of
to try to improve, get better 

for 3-point goals. Harvey Grant, the Bullets' with each match, and receiving treatments. But their unique seasons have Detroit led just 111-109 with leading scorer with a 19.1 after that I couldn't play been pulling them in opposite
hopefully one day be one of 

two minutes left before Dumars average, was held to six points anymore. directions, the Vitales have
the top college players." 

hit his final 3-pointer, then added on 2-for-12 shooting. Teammate Wendy Crabtree "The most frustrating part is managed to maintain their six free throws in the final 63 Jazz 93, Spurs 85 points to Sherri's relationship that I haven't been given a strong relationship. seconds to ice the game. prognosis. My problem is not
SALT LAKE CITY -Karl with her sister Terri as one 
Oyde Drexler scored 33 points Malone had 31 points and 14 correctable through surgery, "We're very close," said
reason for her success. 

and Cliff Robinson 30 for the rebounds, and the Utah Jazz "She and Terri are very close and all I can do is continue Terri, "but not only because of Blazers, who would have rallied in the fourth quarter for a and Sherri had visited here a treatment. I'd like a tennis." clinched a playoff spot with a 93-85 victory over San Antonio lot during high school," said timetable, though, as to when 
victory. on Wednesday night. Crabtree. "That gave her a I can expect to play again. "We've just shared so many lsiah Thomas had 20 points and Jeff Malone scored 20 points for sense of what to expect, not "It's kind of a cliche to say it, things," said Sherri. "That 13 assists for Detroit, while the Jazz, who won for the fourth only with tennis but with aca­but this injury has really made was one of the reasons why I Dennis Rodman had 17 points time in five games and pulled demics and Notre Dame life in me appreciate the ability to came to Notre Dame. Terri and 17 rebounds. within three games of the Spurs general." compete-especially when I've didn't really talk me into 
Pacers 114, Bullets 95 in the Midwest Division. San "Terri did a lot to make me put so many hours into reach­coming here, but we've never ing this kvel." 
INDIANAPOLIS -Rik Smits Antonio trails division-leading feel comfortable when I first really been apart. We're very had 18 points and 15 rebounds Houston by a game with the loss. got here," said Sherri. "She's Though much of this season close, and we hang out all the has been exasperating for Vi-time-we're friends." 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day ctassifleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all speces. 
NOTICES 
top, and it's got my name on the The Southwestem Company from 26th, fireplace, W/0, garage, 1yr IMMEDIATE occupancy , WAY, YOU'RE NICE bottom. Both are VERY important! Nashville, TN is interviewing lease. Call Caroline or Bill at 317-1 bdrm apt. incl. walk thru bath M.B.S.I LOVE, TEASE GIRL Call Bridget at X2721 students for summer work 297-8485 and closet, garage, washer opportunities in sales. Students and dryer. 273-9392 BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL TYPING 256-6657 Someone took my tray at dinner in typically earn $3,500-$6,500 their Summer Lease NEEDS REFEREES the South Dining first summer and gain tremendous Castle Point MATTERHORN ""SENIORs•• Hall on Sat., March 27th."lf you resume experience. Stop by Call R.J. or John FOR SALE DO YOU HAVE THE GUTS TO find it, please call 2339. O'Hara Lounge on first floor 271-2908 MAKE SOME EASY MONEY???? SERVICE WEEK Lafortune for more info., to set up One-way plane ticket from 
interview times and meet other N.D. NO Apts now signing leases at a Chicago to L.A. 517 $150. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED Sat.-Party with St. Hedwig's WANTED students who have worked in past very comfortable rate. Can't beat Call Jane 634-4994. PLEASE CALL PATRICK Dillon Hall summers. Representatives there the location or the price COLEMAN AT 289-2683 1:30PM CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -Thursday April 1 from Call us 232-8256 
Eam $2,000+/month + world travel 1 :30 PM-6:30 PM. TICKETS BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Sun.-Class Mass (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, 3 BDRM. HOUSE, FULL Dillon Hall etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career Help! Two fun travelers BASEMENT, FURNISHED, 4 BLKS. Adoption: Doctor and teacher will 
7:00 employment available. No need ride to U of Mich FROM NO. 234-1883. Please, Please, Pleasellll make dreams for your baby come Refreshments follow experience necessary. For this Sat. for Hash I need two commencement true. Full-time parenting. Best of the employment program call Bash weekend! Call BED 'N BREAKFAST HOMES tix I Call Jennifer@ 277-5972 city; summers by the beach; your 
""SENIORs•• 1-206-634-0468 ext. C5584. Kara x2461. Will help with FOR ND/SMC PARENTS. baby rocked to sleep by a cozy gas, tolls. 219-291-7153. Help! Grad. is coming and the fireplace in winter, and by ocean 
Hardworking Individual wanted for 1 dbrm sublefisep apt, May 20-Aug. family is bringing everybody waves in summer. Art, music, the work in book warehouse. Book 20. Chris (217) 581-2812. I FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT except the pets. I need tickets! Call best education, endless love. Call knowledge and familiarity with PC PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA SCHOOL YEAR EXCELLENT Joe @ 277-4273 Franny or Stephen collect. helpful. PO Box 4621 South Bend Need a ride OR riders to Madison, HIRING DRIVERS PART TIME NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO (212)369-2597. IN WI this weekend, April 2-4. Call Jon THROUGH FINALS WEEK IDEAL FOR 4-7 STUDENTS PLEASE!II 46634 @271·1938. VERY FLEXIBLE SCHEDULES 2773097 Need Grad Tix Heading for EUROPE this summer? 
AVERAGES $8/hr and up Brian 273-0967 Jet there anytime for only $169 from Need a ride to Norfolk, VA Call271-1177 or stop by 54533 Rent or Sale 2 B.A., W, D. R. R, 2 East Coast, $229 from the Midwest 
ILOST & FOUND I 
area for Easter break. Will help pay Terrace Lane baths. Located College Park (when available) with AIRHITCHI 
for gas. I Condos. Corner of Bulla & PERSONAL (Reported in Let's Gol & NY LOST-MEN'S SILVER Call Christina at x4241 Ironwood. Must be responsible Times.) AIRHITCH (r) ClADDAUGH RING. LOST Need ride to SC over Easter, tenat $595 per mo or Sale &65,900. Astrologer, Birth Charts & Personal 212-864-2000. ON 3125193. ENORMOUS If anyone is planning on working in preferably Charleston. Will share Send info to PO Box 4075 South Forecasts. Send SASE: Astrological SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF Hilton Head this summer and needs expenses. Call Lisa x2576 Bend IN 46634. Services, Box 8038, South Bend, IN NO junior's sister & brother-in-law 
FOUND PLEASE CALL roommates to help pay for rent, call 46615, or call Pager #282-7042. recently lost 2 infants to genetic CHRIS @ 4452. THANKS .. Kelly @4121. I need a ride for Easter break 3-5 PERSON FURNISHED disorders. They would like to adopt 
to or near Whitefish Bay, WI. Will HOUSE, SEC. SYSTEM, ""SENIORS"' a child. Large family w/lots of love. Missing as of 3/27 to SUBLEASE your house/apt. for leave Thursday nightor Friday WASH/DRY, BEACH V-BALL, If you can help or know one who Black wallet. If found call x1757 SUMMER:3-5 people,pref. near morning, return Monday. Will pay for PRIME LOCATION. This is can, please call x3314 or (517)531­
campus-call Samx4842 gas. Call Katie at 3738. 233-9947. SERVICE WEEK 3219 collect 
HELPIIIIIIIIII I'm an idiot and LOST my keychain Driver needed in May to Hartford 5 br. house, great condition, security ""SENIORS"" 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 somewhere on campus Sunday CT area, our car, expenses paid, FOR RENT system, all appliances, a must seel in LaFortune Student Center eve. It is a silver hook key chain insured. Call Mr. Bishop 1-324-4898 $650/mth call 232 8256 Who's Your Daddy? QUALITY COPIES with 2 GM keys, 3 dorm keys, and a Reserve your 4 or 5 Bedroom as low as 3¢ each car alarm. I found call 4-2934. 50,000,000 Babjes House now for 93-94 school Female '92 grad looking for HI BEAKER : -) OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK Thanks. year 234-1886 roommate(s) in Chg9 area. Prefer 
SUMMER JOB western suburbs. Open to ideas. NETTE-PEACEFEST IS COMINGIIIII LOST: Pair of gold clip-on earrings Paint OUTSIDE with SUMMER SESSION & FALL-4 Monica 708-961-3533 wk: 708-Have a great weekend on NOEl PEACEFEST IS COMINGIIIII between Zahm and St. Mary's Lake other STUDENTS bdrms, close to campus, safe 850-4333 You're going to love it! APRIL 7TH beach (by the boathouse) on Friday Earn $6-8/ HOUR neighborhood. $200/mo. Use of all -Anabel night Cleveland-Toledo area utilities. Call Monica SUMMER SUBLEASE: 2 bdrm apt. LOOK FOR MORE INFO ......... (doni ask ... ). ALSO: I left my info: John@ 232-2794. "cheap• safe,walk dist,clean. 273 HEY TEASE BOY-coffee mug in the upstairs bathroom 271-2908 9689 I LIKE YOU I THANKS FOR A of the Rock. It's grey with a blue Oakhill Condo For Rent! 2BR loft, WONDERFUL WEEKEND. BY THE 


Thursday, April 1, 1993 The Observer page 11 . ••••. •.•.• •••.. ....•• ..••... ...... •.... ..•.• .••••• •.•••• •
. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . 0
-•''''*" ill ~ • • • •• •• • •• •• •• •• • ._...... -,~ ­
. -·' ' ' '• . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ., '
~41~~ ·~o y ••••••• •••••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••• ~~ 'nr..C> 
·'--"' '~~ / e e • e e e e e e • e • e e e e e '/:~:~: :· ~11 I
"--=-' -.,_,,,. " • :: • : :: •• : : :: :: :: •• : : ·~ -~ 
. ..... ..... ..... . . ....... ...... ..... . . . ....... 
NBA STANDINGS NHLSTATS TRANSACTIONS 
(Empty-net goals In parentheses)
EASTERN CONFERENCE Natlonel Leegue
BASEBALL
t.f> Gl'. 9J Avg

Atlantic Dlvlalon CINCINNATI REDS--f'taced Hal Morris, first
Amerlcen League
Hasek 104 4 0 2.31
W L Pet G8 L10 Streak Home Away Coni baseman, on the 15-day disabled list.
BAL Tl MORE ORIOLES-Placed Anthony
Balfour 942 37 2.36
x-New York 48 20 .708 8-2 Won3 31-4 17-18 31-12 Optioned Scott Ruskin and Bobby Ayala,
Telford, pitcher, on waivers. Sent Brad
Chicago (1) 1046 42 2.41
Boston 42 28 .800 7 9-1 Won9 25-9 17-19 28-18 pitchers, to Indianapolis of the American
Pennington, pitcher, to their minor-league
Draper 433 19 1 2.63
New Jersey 41 29 .588 8 6-4 Won1 25-10 18-19 25-19 Association. Sent Gary Green, Infielder, to
camp for reassignment. Optioned Manny
Buffalo (0) 433 19 1 2.83
Orlando 3 3 3 4 .493 14 1/2 4-8 Won2 22-13 11-21 20-22 their minor-league camp for reassignment.
Alexander, shortstop; Rey Palacios, catcher;
Cheveldae 597 25 2 2.51
Miami 31 37 .458 17 8-4 Won1 22-12 9-25 17-28 COLORADO ROCKIES-Sent Mark Knudson,
and Mark leonard and Jack Voigt,
Riendeau 73 4 0 3.29
Philadelphia 2 1 4 8 .304 27 1/2 1-9 lost 5 11-23 10-25 15-31 outfielders, to Rochester of the pitcher, and Gllberto Reyes, catcher, to 
Detroit (1) 817 30 2 2.88
Washington 20 49 .290 28 1/2 4-8 Lost 1 13-20 7-29 13-32 their minor-league camp for reassignment.
International league. Sent Jeffrey
McLean 785 33 2 2.52
Central Dlvlalon FLORIDA MARLINS-Agreed to terms with
Hammonds, outfielder, to Bowie of the
Vancouver (2) 789 35 2 2.88
x-Chlcago 48 21 .898 7-3 lost 1 28-10 22-11 30-13 Greg Briley, outfielder-Infielder, on a one­
Eastern league. Announced lhal Mike
Racicot 0 0 .00
Cleveland 43 25 .832 4 1/2 5-5 Lost 1 28-8 15-19 28-18 year contract. Traded Brian Griffiths,
Flanagan, pitcher, has left camp.
Roy 888 30 1 2.62
Atlanta 37 32 .538 11 9-1 Won5 22-13 15-19 21-25 BOSTON RED SOX-Optioned Scott Taylor, pitcher, to lhe San Francisco Giants for 
Montreal (2) 889 32 1 2.79
Charlotte 35 35 .500 13 1/2 3-7 lost 5 17-18 18-19 20-24 Nate Minchey and Brian Conroy, pitchers, to Andres Santana, Infielder, and assigned
Pietrangelo 425 19 0 2.68
Indiana 3 4 3 5 .493 14 5-5 Won1 23-11 11-24 22-24 Santana to Edmonton of the Pacific Coast
Pawtucket of the International League.Detroit 32 3 7 .484 18 8-4 Won1 23-12 9-25 24-20 league.
Whitmore 19 1 0 3.16 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Traded Mark Whiten, 
Hartford (1) 448 21 0 2.83
Milwaukee 28 43 .377 22 3-7 lost 1 18-19 10-24 18-27 outfielder, to the St. louts Cardinals for NEW YORK METS-Optloned Kevin Baez,
Barrasso 1173 52 1 2.71
WESTERN CONFERENCE Mark Clark, pitcher, and Juan Andujar, Infielder, to Norfolk of the International Midwest Division league.
Wregget 40 4 0 8.00 
shortstop. Optioned Jim Thome, third G8 L10 Struk Home Away Coni 
Pittsburgh (1) 1214 58 2.87
W L Pet baseman; Mark Lewis, shortstop; and Jesse BASKETBALL 
Casey 437 22 0 3.02
x-Houston 44 25 .838 8-4 lost 1 25-9 19-18 28-15 National B..ketball A..ocletlon
levis, catcher, to Charlotte of lhe
Minnesota (1) 437 23 0 3.18
x-San Antonio 43 25 .832 1/2 6-4 Won2 27-7 18-18 26-15 NBA-Suspended Shaqullle O'Neal of Moog 868 46 1 3.19 
International league. Sent Cliff Young,
Utah 40 30 .571 4 1/2 5-5 lost 1 22-12 18-18 22-20 pitcher, to their minor-league casnp. for Orlando for one game wlthoU1 pay and fined 
Lemelin 54 3 0 3.33
Denver 29 40 .420 15 1/2 4-8 Won3 23-11 8-29 18-24 reassignment. him $10,000 for punching Alvin Robertson 
Boston (2) 926 51 1 3.30
Minnesota 17 51 .250 28 1/2 3-7 Won2 10-28 7-25 12-30 of Detroit during a game on March 30. Fined
DETROIT TIGERS-Optioned Buddyt-GroomDallas 7 61 .103 38 1/2 3-7 lost 2 5-29 2-32 1-40 
Tugnutt 80 3 0 3.00 
and Kurt Knudsen, pitchers, to Toledo of the Robertson $7,500 for retaliating and fined
Ranford 909 51 2 3.37
Pacific Division International league. Sent Mark Grater, Terry Mills and Isaiah Morris of Detroit
Edmonton (O) 971 54 2 3.34
x-Phoenlx 53 1 5 .779 8-2 Won5 30-4 23-11 33-9 pitcher, lo their minor-league camp for $500 each for leaving the bench area. Fined
Beaupre 419 22 0 3.15
x-Seattle 47 23 .871 7 8-4 lost 1 28-8 19-17 31-12 reassignment. Derrick Coleman of New Jersey $5,000;
Washington (3) 420 25 0 3.57
Portland 41 27 .803 12 8-4 Lost 2 24-10 17-17 27-15 Armon Gilliam of Philadelphia $2,000; and
MINNESOTA TWINS-Released Bert
Joseph 379 23 0 3.84
LA lakars 34 34 .500 19 3-7 lost 1 17-17 17-17 21-19 Andrew lang, Tim Perry and Eddie LeeBlyleven, pitcher, from a minor-league
St. Louis (0) 384 23 0 3.59 contract. Placed Carl Willis, pitcher, on theLA Cllppara 34 36 .488 20 5-5 Won1 21-13 13-23 21-22 
Wilkins of Philadelphia $500 each for their Golden State 28 41 .408 25 1/2 3-7 lost 2 15-20 13-21 19-21 
Richter 412 24 1 3.50 
parts In a fight during a gama on March 30.
15-day disabled list. Optioned Derek Lee,
Vanbelsbrouck 368 23 0 3.75 outfielder, to Portland of the Pacific Coast FOOTBALLSacramento 21 48 .304 32 1/2 3-7 lost 4 15-21 8-27 15-29 NY Rangers (2) 784 47 1 3.75 league. Designated Chip Hale, Infielder, for National Football Leaguex-cllnched playoff berth. 
Hrudey 355 22 0 3.72 assignment. CLEVELAND BROWNS-Signed VInnyWednesday's Games Thursday's Games 
los Angeles (1) 360 23 0 3.83 TEXAS RANGERS-Placed Geno Petrelli, Testaverde, quarterback, to a one-year Boston 109, Philadelphia 1 03 Cleveland at New York, 7:30 p.m. 
Detroit 120, Portland 111 Miami at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m. Terrerl 388 23 0 3.58 
catcher; Manuel lee, shortstop; Jeff Huson contract.
Brodeur 32 3 0 5.63 and Jeff Frye, Infielders; Hector Fajardo, NEW YORK JETS-Signed Marco Bailey,Indiana 114, Washington 95 Sacramento at Washington, 7:30 p.m. 
SeaHie at Dallas, (n) New Jersey (2) 420 28 0 4.00
Charlotte at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. 
Barry Manuel and Dan Smith, pitchers; and wide receiver. Matched the offer sheet
Tabaraccl 387 28 0 4.03 Rob Maurer, first baseman, on the the 15-signed by Marvin Washington, defensive Atlanta at Denver, (n) Milwaukee at Houston, 8:30 p.m. 
Essensa 33 3 0 5.45 day disabled list retroactive to March 27. lineman, with the Seattle Seahawks. 
San Antonio at Utah, (n) 
Winnipeg (0) 420 29 0 4.14
Minnesota at LA Lakers, (n) 
This Place of Prayer 
A few good days of sunshine and warmth and every basketball court on campus is jammed. Suddenly, perfect rows of tulip leaves are popping up in all the official flower beds. If it doesn't snow this weekend, they'll probably put the white metal tables and chairs back onto the Fieldhouse Mall and tum on the water in the Big Fountain. It must be Spring-I even got a haircut. 
The recent mellow temperatures invite more than just increased athletic competition. More user-friendly weather permits greater appreciation and use of this whole campus as a place for meditation and prayer. 
When Father Sorin first settled his little band of missionaries in northern Indiana, it seems he quickly fell in love with "the lake." It was holy to him and to his people. Its beauty and serenity spoke of peace, and of the presence of love in an otherwise often harsh world. 
That Lake now is two, but its division has not diminished the beauty, or the invitation to peace, or the chance for contemplation. 
If you start on the south side of St. Joseph's Lake behind Colomba Hall (where a nice bunch of older esc brothers live), you can follow a beautiful Way of the Cross up into the woods just west of the lake. There in the woods, the Stations conclude with a life size reproduction of the Crucifixion scene. If you come upon these statues unexpectedly, late at night, they can scare you to death. If you approach them instead by choice, you are invited to remember our most strange and demanding truth, that new life is found only by our passage through death. 
If you want to keep thinking about death, and the presence of Spirit stronger than death, you can come out of the woods and cross the road to the Holy Cross Community Cemetery, on the north shore of St. Mary's Lake. As a new seminarian I use to lay on the ground in there and quietly say to myself, "well, now you have 40 or 50 years to finally end up moving only 40 or 50 feet." I go back there now and again to put things in perspective. Your meditation in the midst of all those little white crosses may well be different than mine, but perhaps equally clarifying. 
There are other things to think about besides death. 
Young lovers favor the beauty of clouds reflected off the water, as seen from the steep hill in front of Moreau Seminary, under the willow trees. Duck lovers have several spots to feed and befriend the webbed-foot inhabitants of our Shire -there by the Grotto, of course, and down in front of Fatima Retreat House at the far western end of campus. Dome-lovers will find one of the prettiest views of our premier campus landmark by standing directly 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
north of Carroll Hall, on a cleared point of land that sticks out into St. Mary's Lake and faces back to the east. This particular view of our Golden centerpiece was long-called the "phone book view," because for so many years this vista graced the front of the ND-SMC directory. For a long time there was a park bench on that point, convenient for couples and contemplatives alike. Thoughts were of God, and gratitude, and the amazement of lucky lives given so many gifts. These days there is no seat on that hallowed point, just some grungy old mattress tossed under nearby shrubs. I wonder if the meditations on that ugly piece of equipment are quite as edifying . 
A constant theme around here is that most people work too hard and feel too much stress. The fact that we get a lot of vacations only mitigates the indictment just a little. I think it would be better if we took more advantage of the landscape and quietly rested once in awhile in the beauty of the campus. 
If you can confess to me the sin of being overextended and uninspired, let me offer back to you a penance -not three Our Fathers and three Hail Mary's, but a quiet moment down by the lakes. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. April3 5:00p.m. Rev. Terence Linton, C.S.C. 
Sun.April4 10:00 a.m. Rev. Joseph R. Crowley, D.D. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. John Gerber, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY PASSION SUNDAY (PALM SUNDAY) 
PROCESSION Matthew 21: 1--11 
1sT READING Isaiah 50: 4--7 2ND READING Philippians 2: 6--11 GosPEL Matthew 26: 14--27, 66 
r---_....-------~-------~----~---~------------------~---~­
page 12 The Observer Thursday, April 1, 1993 
--------©[LODmSPORJS,-------­
Ski team impresses at regionals 
By JOE LIGHS Sports Writer 
Capping off the season, the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ski teams traveled to Biwabik, Minn. along with teams from Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michi­gan, Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and Canada for the Regional Ski Championships. 
"Overall, I thought we did very well even though we were lacking a few key races. The team should do well next year and this year's experience can only help," said team captain Pete Saine. 
The men's team finished a strong fifth out if 17 teams and missed qualification for Na­tionals in Squaw Valley, Cal. by two spots. 
Individually, Michael Zilvitis finished ninth overall in the slalom and giant slalom races. Team captain Pete Saine ended his college career with a 16th place finish while Jim Feldman placed 23rd at the event. Dave Barry and Ben Gaffney did not compete due to serious knee in­juries sustained at the last competition. 
"All in all, it was a solid week­end for the ski team," said Zilvitis. 
The Notre Dame women's team edged out the Saint Mary's team for fourth place, but lost out to Michigan for the last spot to Nationals by half a second. 


JoJo Gehl finished seventh overall leading all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's finishers. Tracy Giovanoni, Julie Byrd. Deidre Vosswinkel and Sarah Stock all had strong finishes to help the women's team. 
"It was a good experience for the younger members and we will do better next year," said Vosswinkel. 
I
The Saint Mary's team fin­

ished just behind the Notre Dame women's team with Katie Daniel leading the attack. Daniel finished eighth overall while Beth Mcintosh and Nancy Boehner notched top-20 finishes to secure the fifth place Courtesy of the Notre Dame Ski Club team spot. Sophomore Michael Zilvitis skis to a top ten finish in Giant Slalom. 
McDonald leads Minnesota to first NIT championship 

NEW YORK (AP) -After fail­ing to get an NCAA tournament bid 2 1/2 weeks ago, Minnesota was an angry and frustrated team. Then along came the perfect cure -the NIT. 
Arriel McDonald scored 14 of his 20 points in 
the second half and the Golden Gophers with­stood a late Georgetown rally to beat the Hoyas 62-61 

w e d n e s d a y Joey Brown night for their first NIT championship. Minnesota (22-1 0) managed to win despite going scoreless over the last 4 1/2 minutes. Georgetown (20-13) scored 10 straight points, cutting Min­nesota's lead to 62-61 with 1:41 lefl on a free throw by Othella Harrington. But neither team could score the rest of the way. Georgetown got the ball afler 
Minnesota's Randy Carter missed two free throws with 
24.3 seconds remaining. But after working the ball for a good shot, Kevin Millen missed a 15-foot jumper with about three seconds left. 
The ball was knocked out of bounds by Minnesota, however, and Georgetown got one more chance with four-tenths of a second remaining. But a lob pass for Harrington was stolen by Minnesota's Voshon Lenard and time ran out. 
Lenard scored 17 points for Minnesota. Harrington led Ge­orgetown with 17 points and Joey Brown added 14. 
Georgetown, which trailed by two at halftime, took a 43-41 lead on a three-point play by Brown with 15:42 left. 
But Minnesota then went on a 13-2 run that began with a bank shot by Townsend Orr. Georgetown's Duane Spencer was ejected on the play for 

-


7 Day Deliy.~ry-
Roses Flowers Balloons Plants Gift & Fruit Baskets Clocktower Square (219)277, 1291 '<-o_et ~ 
0 ~'(.
51400 31 North 
~~ o.~~

South Bend, IN 46637 Mention This Ad and Receive 10% off ~ Nor good for Valentine's Day 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE 
OFT~SHIP? 
~ 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future ­including the possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 4 
1:00 -5:00 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY APRIL 1 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry ,Office: 
Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Call 631-5242 for more information 
throwing a punch, and Jayson Walton made the two technical foul shots to give Minnesota a 45-43lead. 
After a layup by Harrington, Minnesota scored nine straight points to take a 54-45 lead. Mc­Donald had seven of the points on two baskets and three free throws, which all came after he 
THE ARMY NURSINCi CHALLENGE. 
You've worked hard for your BSN. You'd like to continue the challenge. That's what Army Nurs­ing offers ...professional challenges. 
Plus new study opportunities, continuing education, travel. And you'll have the respect and prestige accorded an officer in the United States Army. 
Ifyou're working on your BSN or already have a BSN, talk to your Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
(219) 844--3990 

ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 
was fouled while attemping a 3­pointer. 
The Hoyas pulled to 54-49 on baskets by Eric Micoud and Harrington, but the Gophers then went on an 8-2 run to in­crease their lead to 62-51. Once again, McDonald was the spark, making two baskets and a free throw. 
Lenard was 5 for 5 from the field in the first half, including 3 for 3 from long range, as Min­nesota took a 32-30 lead. 
Brown scored the first six points of the game, but Lenard then scored 11 quick points, in­cluding three straight 3-point­ers, as Minnesota pulled ahead 13-10. 


SYRACUSE ABROAD 
~ 

AFRICA • AUSTRALIA • CZECH REPUBLIC • ENGLAND • FRANCE • GERMANY • HUNGARY • ISRAEL • ITALY • POLAND • SPAIN 
• 
Courses Taught in English and Host Country Language 

• 
SUCredit 

• 
Field Trips/Traveling Seminars 

• 
Internships 

• 
Study For A Semester, A Year, Or A Summer 

• 
Home Or Apartment Placements FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AVAILABLE 


Syracuse University Division of International Programs Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-34 72 
Thursday, April 1, 1993 The Observer page 13 
--------©[bQDrn3SPORTS.-------­
Equestrian shines at Western Horseshow 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian team turned in a strong showing at the Western Horseshow at Purdue March 27, earning two first-place fin­ishes as well as six other per­formances garnering top-five finishes. 
Jen Leitow turned in the club's strongest performance, scoring first and second place in the open division, as well as third in the reining category. 
Also competing in the open and reining categories was se­nior Eric Ivanovich. He placed fourth and sixth in open and rode to another sixth place fin­ish in the reining class. 
"Eric is a senior and per­formed very well," said club vice-president Megan Turpin. "As a team we did a lot better than normal. We have had a lot more people compete and that has made the difference." 
Leitow and-Ivanovich have both qualified for regionals, which will take place April 10. 
Also showing well at Purdue was Tara Hooper and Becky Rombalski in the intermediate division. Hooper took fourth and fifth while Rombalski earned third for her effort. 
In the beginning class, Michelle Meadows captured first and fifth. 
The strong performance comes at the heels of the only 
home meet for the club this season. Saturday and Sunday the Culver Military Academy will be the sight of the club's annual huntseat show. 
Schools such as Indiana, Earlham College, Ball State, Purdue, Taylor, and Illinois will compete. ND/SMC have faired well against the tough competi­tion in the past and look to con­tinue that trend this weekend. 
"I don't know that we'll win, but we've have rode well in the past few meets and I think that we should have a strong show­ing," said Turpin. "Because it is so late in the season, some of the opposing riders may not be competing, which should be to our benefit." 
Water polo confident for E. Michigan 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame water polo team will be in action this Sat­urday, as they will travel to Eastern Michigan to compete in the last tournament for senior player/coach Tony Boczkowski, but the first for newcomer Will McCarthy, a converted swimmer who will probably be in the starting lineup. 
The team will also be playing under the leadership of newly­elected team captains Eric Schultz, Brian Coughlin, and Donald Balhoff. 
"We're confident going into this tournament," said fresh­man Brian Wood, who scored nine goals in the Mid-American Water Polo Conference Tour­nament, hosted by the Irish February 19. "With the new leadership, we've had a suc­cessful three weeks of practice and we're really coming to­gether as a team." 
Notre Dame won the Mid­American Tournament, held at the Rolf's Aquatic Center. Strong team defense, led by Coughlin and freshman Walter Morrissey, helped the team to defeat Bowling Green University 11-7 in the first game. The Irish later pounded Northern Illinois 21-11 behind senior Joe Dummer to take the tourna­ment title. 
Some of the competition this weekend will look familiar to Notre Dame, as they will again take on Bowling Green as well as Eastern Michigan and a Michigan amateur club team. 
"Though we may not know much about some of the com­petition, our strategy won't change," commented Balhoff. "We hope to stifle them with a suffocating defense and effi­ciently run our counter-attack." 
The Irish will look for offen­sive contribution from junior Ed Padinske, sophomore Chris O'Hara, and freshman Joe Slankas as they try to continue their winning streak Saturday. Following this tournament, this relatively young team will end their season next weekend at Northern Illinois University. 
DIVINE WORD MISSIONARIES WORK TO HEAL SHATTERED LIVES 
Divine Word Missionary Priests and Brothers work In more than 55 countries to bring God's Word to the poor and marginalized. 
We are an International, muiU-cultural Catholic commu­nity of 5,700 men. We offer tlon and discernment 
0 TOLTON African­Orleans. 
0 WENDELIN HousE is a small religious community of Divine Word Missionary Brother candidates in Washington, D.C. 
For more information, write: 
FR. Boo KELLY, svn 

DIVINE WORD MISSIONARIES S12 
Epworth, !A 510'45.0380 

ot call ourtoll-frec. number: 
l-800-Sfl-3321 


By JASON KELLY Associate Sports Editor 
In its five year existence, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's women's lacrosse club has gone through some growing pajns. 
But despite the problems, in­terest has continued'to grow and the team is heading into the 1993 season with a lot of enthusiasm and hope for the future. 
"We've made a lot of im­provements since last season," said captain Heather Jackson. "We started practicing in the fall, we've got uniforms for the first time and we have more games scheduled than ever be­fore. If the weather ever coop­erates, we may get a chance to play some." 
Rain cancelled last week's season-opening tournament at Michigan and the forecast isn't too promising for this week­end's trip to Chicago where they are scheduled to play Dayton and the Chicago Women's Club. 
The team's problems stem from the fact that they are not a recognized club at Notre Dame. That means no funding, no practice space and no trans­portation to games. 
They took the first step to­ward gaining recognition this year, but the University re­quires a one-year observing period before recognizing a club team. 
"It's definitely a step in the right direction," Jackson said. "Interest is really growing at Notre Dame and it (achieving club status) would really benefit the team." 
Of the 40 players on this year's roster, 31 are from Notre Dame. In the past the numbers .. have been more evenly spread between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The increasing interest in women's lacrosse at Notre Dame parallels a trend throughout the midwest, where more and more schools are fielding teams. 
"Women's lacrosse really seems to be growing in the midwest," Jackson explained. "It is mainly Big Ten schools that are attracting students from the east coast." 
The east coast is well repre­sented on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's team, but it is not a team full of lacrosse veterans. It ranges from beginners to graduate students who played varsity lacrosse as undergrads. 
Whatever their skill level, the players are interested only in getting on the field and playing games. It has been a long pre­season. 
"We're itching to play," Jack­son said. 
They better hope the weather doesn't scratch this weekend's games. 
1

r9JIV•OS1'ill'ure•··.lestaverde 
REAr 6b:io{AJ:l),•···•·.·.····••• Free ~ Vinny TQst~verde !>~id 
e~~sd~y he.,.p.gre~:J~lto b~;J a baekJ~pto <;levelan~quarter­~~~k Bernie Kosar in the hope tffllt r~:Jjoining his college byddy ~im&ke the g~mefunagain. 
Te~t~\'erde. the/.~~87' lleis­
m~n Trophy winriet who bas 
ggled through six seasons 
e NFL, wa.S ICosar:$baekup when the .two play~a at the Unlvetsity of Milll)ti•... · 
~[he~e~s no questiop. I look at it·~s ·a... new beginning,·~ ·.said Te:sta,verde, Who settled on a one-year· deal· with a chtb op­
tion. · · ·· · ••'Jleill.g ba,ck on the same team, ptartng the role 1 wd •in college, l feel eol)l(orta.ble with it/' Testa verde said. "We have a gfl9d r~;Jlationship, ·• Berni~ and.f do. and lthink that will make it 
more f'ud' than it has been Cor rne in the past few y(;lal"S." 
Testaverde earned $1.5 mil~ lion a,s Tampa Jlay•s st~rting quarterback last season. He is the team's all-time ea.reel' pass­i.Jlg leader. 
Jlut the Buee~neers have managed only a 24-48 record in five years under. his direetiol1• and T{;}staverde has had rocky relationships with team officials. 
Tampa Bay's No. 1 draft pick in 1987, Testavetde was ex~ pected to bring new lite to the franchise. But he never blos­somed under then-head coae Ray Perkins and clashed with Chris Chandler. whom Perkins hired as Testaverde's backup; 

,...-~--_..,_____________ 
...... ..,_-.· "A,... ­

pagel4 · The Observer Thrusday, April 1, 1993 
Mirer struts his stuff for the NFL 
NOTRE DAME, Ind. (AP) -Rick Mirer finally gave NFL coaches and scouts what they wanted Wednesday -a live performance of the skills that could make him the top player chosen in the upcoming draft. 
Mirer, who finished his college career as Notre Dame's leader in total offense and touchdown passes, had skipped the scouting combine earlier this year in Indianapolis and postponed a campus workout in early March. 
"It was a long time coming," Mirer said. "I finally got it over with, and it's off my shoulders now." 
.,ff/111_, ... ·Hih 
...// 1, ,;f;, 
1
ri/// 1/Mi' -., . 
1/kll'· 
''1' 
'1;11, 
i 


.... 
Courtesy of Notru Dame Spot1B Information Former Notre Dame QB Rick Mirer will most likely be one of the top two picks in the upcoming NFL draft. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
WAANtJG SIGNS. 

He worked out for more than an hour, throwing for about 30 minutes as representatives from many NFL teams watched. 
"This is the first time I've seen him throw in person, in fact it's probably the first time a few o us have," said Ray Perkins, the New England Pa­triots' new offensive coordinator. 
MYou get a better idea of velocity on the ball and arm strength seeing him in person rather than on tape. I liked him very much." 
The Patriots have the first pick in the April 25 draft, followed by the Seattle Seahawks. Mirer and Drew Bledsoe of Washington State, who worked out at the combine, are considered the top quarterbacks available . 
Coaches were careful Wednesday not to lean toward either player. Larry Kennan, Seattle's offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach, said Bledsoe's advantage is his 6-foot-5 frame, while the 6-2 Mirer has better mobility. 
"I don't know how you compare those two because they're really different guys," Kennan said. 
Mirer quieted some grumblings about his arm strength, capping his workout with two throws over 70 yards, said Mike White, the Los Angeles Raiders quarterbacks coach. 
alt was an excellent workout," White said. " ... I think he got himself in a good mental frame o mind to show the scouts what he has." 
Mirer, who started for three years at Notre Dame and passed for 6,691 yards and 41 touchdowns, ran his own workout. He methodically moved through a variety of pass routes with wideouts Ray Griggs and William Pollard and running backs Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks. 
All four finished their Notre Dame careers last season, and Bettis and Brooks are expected to be taken in the first round. Linebacker Demetrius DuBose, who also worked out Wednesday, cornerback Tom Carter and tight end Irv Smith also could be first-round picks. 
Mirer said he postponed his audition to make sure he was in top condition. 
"When you have two, three months from bowl game to draft day. I don't think there's any rush to jump right into something that could have a huge effect on your next 10 years," said Mirer. 
Happy 21st 

Birthday 
©~rrrr®i£ IJ©~g 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team lost at home to the powerful Kalamazoo Hornets last night, 7-2. 
In the marque matchup at one-singles, junior Mary Cosgrove challenged the num­ber-one ranked player in the region, Kalamazoo's Jackie Aurelia. T h o u g h Cosgrove is r a n k e d thirteenth, she 
Jo-Ann fell to Aurelia, 7-6. (7-3). 6-2. Nester 
"The sets were a lot closer than the scores indicate," said coach Jo­Ann Nester, who also thanked Notre Dame tennis coaches Jay 

SMC tennis falls to Hornets 
Louderback and Bob Bayliss for the use of the Eck Pavilion. 
In the second position, Natalie Kloepfer, a senior, had only her second loss of the sea­son, 6-2, 6-3, to Billee Lightvoet. At three-singles, Junior Thayma Darby, played her first game of the season and lost to Alison Frye in three sets, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
"(Frye) got everything," said Darby. "She moved me up and back. She was very determined and aggressive." 
Sophomore Andrea Ayres beat her number-four oppo­nent, Betsy Hobbs, 6-2, 6-4, but at number-five, senior Chris Smiggen lost to Jenifer Holmes, 6-4, 3-6, 6-2. And at the end of a tiring match of split sets at number-six singles, junior Lisa Rania also lost, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
"This is my third year coaching and we haven't been able to beat Saint Mary's in three setters until now," said coach Yvonne Hackenberger of Kalamazoo. 
In doubles play, the number­one team of Cosgrove and Darby couldn't get past the un­defeated duo of Aurelia and Lightvoet, 6-4, 6-3. At number­two doubles, Ayres and freshman Robyn Hrycko lost to Frye and Hobbs, 6-2, 6-2. And playing an eight game pro-set at number-three doubles, se­nior Shannon McGinn and Kloepfer downed Holmes and Smith, 8-2. 
The Belles' next match is Wednesday at Valparaiso College. 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
FRIDAY 
#23 WO:MEN'S TENNIS 

vs Texas A&M Eck Tennis Pavilion 4:00PM Courtney Tennis Center* Free admission 
SATURDAY 
#14 LACROSSE 
vs #15 Georgetown Loftus 2:00 PM Krause Stadium* Free admission 
*weather pennitting 

~--// 

Notre Dame Apartments
'~ 

2 bedroom Apts. 
Now LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
Apartments Available at 
I)QI 11M del pail ~two rrn.s or 111ft. a adcx:1X 

S250 per month 
Features include (in all units): 
• 
New Carpet 


• 
New Appliances 

• 
New Cabinets 


• 
New Security System 

• 
New Landscaping 

• 
Fenced Parking 


Come see the changes we have mai:le. You won't be disappointed!
GROUNDHOG DAY (PG) 
4:45, 7:15, 9:45 

For mora Info call: 
BORN YESTERDAY (PG) 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
POINT OF No RETURN (R) 

232-825& 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 


Today 
Thursday, April 1, 1993 page 15 
SPELUNKER 
SO, WITH NO PCAC£5 l-EFT to D\JMP THEIR lRASli, 2.1~ CfNIVRY SCI£0NTlST5 
IN VENT • TIM£ DISPOSAL" 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Blister so Toxic 26 Take more than 
insecticide1 Certain one's share 5tlnge's"­
compensation 27 Everyone 
Stop"s Tajo and Duero except Cavett 54 Metamorphosis

9 Gentle soul 3f In addition 57 Cloudlike
13 Pianist Gilels 34 Redolence 59 Thin14 Home of a 60 Blind crossing biblical witch 36 Stein-line signal
ending 62 "Rosamond" 16 Theatrical 
award 37 Bridge ace, e.g. 
composer17 Sorcery lacks 39 Grain beard 63Armadillotome 
40 Cheer for Battle 

640ullsound19Canadian 41 Become
Indian 65 Equal
cognizant

20 Nurses' 66 Fischer triumph 
42Swerve

stations 67Weakens 
44 Jap. rulers 

21 Actor Alan and family 45 Acquire without credit DOWN
23 Many moons, for short 47 Congrio 
1 Like an 24 Scottish 49 Shakespearean arachnid's seaport villain home 2 Turkish title 
3 Makes aureate ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 4 Building extensions 5 Set out before 
JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
WITH 1!16 P\JSH OF'" A 

[111£ '/t:PtR IS 1'193\ 
6UTION, II-IE TIM£ DISFl:fSAL 
WISKS Wlt'Sft AWAY TlJ SONJf; UN KNOWN nMf: IN 
11-tf DIST/1 NT "PIIST. 
0 
BILL WATIERSON 

Tapeworms on vacation 

liftoff 25 Endured 43 Old Glory sans 54 Sharp, abrupt 6 More secret 26Most of pallor sound 7 Probabilities Walton's gear 46Void 55 Levere!, e.g. a Sun god 27 Bath accessory 48 Needle case 56 Poet Sexton 9 Everything but 2&Wander so Storage base 57--bene the goods 291nvitation abbr. 51 De Klerk's 56 W.W. II landing 10 Hillside shelter 30 Affirmatives predecessor craft 11 Bearing 31 Pequod captain 52 Consume 61 Gaelic 12 Bonnet 32 "Bad Influence" headgear
53 Transmits residents actor 15 Kingdom 33 Obstacle 
Get answers to any three clues 

r.-t::+:+.::-i 181talian's ave 35 Mindanao port 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420·
r.:-t-:+=+:::1 22 G.l. 's therapy 38 Change the 
ctr. label 5656 (75¢ each minute). No. 0218 --


Collegiatejazz $estival 
J(lpril2-3 
Stepan Center 


Friday 7:30 Saturday 11 :30om & 7:30pm 
Sports 
page 16 Thursday, April 1, 1993 


By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
The Irish men's volleyball team will warm up for a tough weekend tonight with an exhi­bition against Andrews (Michigan) College in the Pit of the J.A.C.C. at 7:30. 
The Irish were originally scheduled to face the University of Toledo tonight, but, as a possible well-planned April Fools' joke, "They don't even have a team," said outside hit­ter Pat Madden. Apparently, as the team was informed Tuesday night, they disbanded early this 


The Observer/Kyle Kusek Senior Pat Madden leads the men's volleyball team against Andrews College tonight. 

Men's volleyball faces off against Andrews 
year, much to Madden's surprise and annoyance. 
So, Madden was referred to a high school friend of outside hitter Leo Casas, who attends Andrews and has friends who "want to play ball." 
"They' re just a pickup team who hasn't played in a while," said Madden. The match is be­ing looked at as more of a scrimmage than anything else. 
The Irish should be back at full strength for the weekend. Matt Strottman practiced Wednesday night and should be ready to go against Andrews. Strottman has been battling bronchitis and a nagging knee injury. Chris Murdy has also returned to the Irish lineup after flying home to attend a funeral. 
Even with their return, freshmaen Miguel Ascencio and Bill Raney should still see planty of playing time against Andrews. 
The real test for the Irish will come this weekend when they travel to Michigan on Saturday, then play host to rival Michigan State on Sunday at 2:00 in the Pit. "We're all looking forward to that one," said Madden. The Irish defeated Michigan in the preseiSOn. but fell to Michigan State that same day.
"We can't look past Michigan," said coach Jen Slosar. "But we're still pretty pumped for Sunday." 
According to captain Brian Ceponis, the Irish chances for a win Sunday are good. 
"They are tough, but we can definitely play with them." 

Vitale sisters two-of-a-kind 
By RIANAKEY Sports Writer 
If your father was a successful division I college basketball and NBA coach, and is now perhaps the most well-known basketball commentator in the history of the occupation, you might think that a future in basketball is a natural possibility. 
Yet for Sherr! and Terri Vitale, even with the influence of their father Dick Vitale. playing anything other than tennis would be completely unnatural. 
Since the ages of ten and eight, the Bradenton, Florida, sisters have dismissed jumpshots and layups for forehand volleys and overhead smashes. And for the two Notre Dame scholarship athletes, it appears that dedication has payed off in nothing but aces. 
Both graduates of St. Stephen's High School and the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy, Terri and Sherri combined for nine Florida state high school singles championships and teamed up to win the 1990 number-one doubles championship. In the United States Tennis Association's national junior rankings, Terri spent four years ranked in the top 40, while Sherri eventually climbed into the top 20. 
Both women point to the contributions of their parents as means of their tennis success, but downplay the importance of their father's role in the sports world. 
"We were always taught by our parents that nothing comes without hard wc>rk or dedication," said Terri. "They sacrificed a lot of their time and money for us, but always left us the decisions about what we wanted to do." 
"My father," added Sherri, "was more of a coach-he'd be the one out on the court feeding us balls, while my mother was the one who drove us to the matches and always watched us play. But I've never felt pressured to do well because of what my dad does." 
From Nick Bollettieri to St. Stephen's and now to Notre Dame, the Vitales, it seems, have always been together. 
"I don't even think about the fact that I'm playing with my sister," said Terri. "It just kind of seems like she's always been there." 
Yet for all the time they have spent together, and even the two seasons they 
see SISTERS/page 1 0 

Irish softball downs W. Michigan 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sports Writer 
Despite the rain yesterday afternoon, the Notre Dame softball team managed to improve their record to 11-8 with a 4-1 victory over Western Michigan. Because of the weather, the game lasted only six innings and the second game was cancelled. 
The Irish came into the game ranked below the Broncos, but avenged last year's losses to the Broncos behind freshman pitcher Terri Kobata. Kobata, coming off a record breaking 15 strikeout performance against Indiana on Tuesday, improved her record to 5-2. She went the distance yielding only one run and two hits while striking out three. 
"Terri's pitching really well," said junior shortstop Christy Connoyer. "We can't ask for much more." 
"She's doing her job, and refuses to be intimated by our opponents," added junior out­fielder Carrie Miller. 
The game was extremely sloppy because of the weather conditions. Both pitchers threw four wild pitches, but Notre Dame took advantage against WMU's Brittany Cannavino. 
The Irish scattered eight hits throughout their lineup. Connoyer and senior Casey McMurray had two hits apiece. Sophomores Sara Hayes and Andrea Keys, along with junior Stephanie Pinter each had a hit. Keys drove in two runs while Pinter had another RBI. 
Notre Dame broke out in the first inning on back-to-hack RBI singles by Pinter and Keys. The Irish added two more runs in the third as they scored on an error and a sacrifice fly by Keys. 
"It was a good win, because they were ranked ahead of us in the region," said Pinter. "Although the weather was bad, we still played well." 
"We pulled together and worked extra hard," commented Carrie Miller. Miller had injured her finger in Tuesday's game, but still played though the pain. "It hurt when I was hitting," she said. "It'll be X-rayed tomorrow (today)." 
WMU scored their only run in the fifth on an RBI single by Shannon O'Toole. Kobata threw two wild pitches to set up Western with a runner on third. Fortunately, the Irish survived the rally and pulled off the win. 
"We wanted it bad this year," said Connoyer. 
"There was a revenge factor involved because of what they did last year to us." 
This weekend, the Irish will travel to Normal, Illinois to compete in the Subway Lady Redbird Classic. They will play against the host team from Illinois State, DePaul, and Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
"We're excited to play this weekend," said Pinter. "It was nice to play some game at home, but we'll do fine this weekend." 
"This will be our first official tournament in three weeks because of the weather," added Conn oyer. 

mmmoorn SPORTS 

MIRER SHOWS OFF 

CLUB SPORTS ROUNDUP 
SMCTENNIS 

Former Notre Dame QB 
The latest news from the 
Saint Mary's tennis falls to ~ 
Rick Mirer works out for 
equestrian, ski, water polo,
the Kalamazoo Hornets. 

NFL scouts. 
and women's lacrosse 
see page 14 
see page 14 

clubs. 
see pages 12 and 13 





