
The Observer 
....,., 

VOL. XXV. NO. 80 THURSDAY~PTEMBER 25, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Right to Life marking Roe ruling with events 
By NANCY FENOCKETTI 
News Writer 
While members of the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's College Right to Life (ND/SMC RTL) or­ganization spent the actual an­niversary of Roe vs. Wade protesting in Washington, a week later they are marking the decision to legalize abortion with a series of events aimed at South Bend and its college communities. 
Sponsored by ND/SMC RTL, Campus Ministry, the Children of Mary, and the Knights of the Immaculata, the two-day schedule focuses on the image of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Many pro-lifers have chosen this particular portrayal of Mary as a pregnant young Na­tive American woman to sym­bolize their cause, according to Bill Keen, co-president of ND/SMC RTL. 
Seen in this way, she js both, "the patroness of the unborn and the pro-life movement," Keen said. The sequence begins with a mass in the Sacred Heart Basilica tonight at 5:15p.m. 
"The special intentions will be ·offered up not only to wel­come Our Lady but also for an increase of respect for all hu­man life. It will be a joyous oc­casion even though it is com­memorating something that is not," Keen said. Following the mass, there will be veneration of the Missionary Image until 7 p.m. 
Then, at 7:30 p.m., Daniel Lynch, attorney and pro-life activist from Alburg Springs, New York, will speak on "The Missionary Image of Our Lady of Guadalupe" in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. Lynch is the national guardian of the image, a 4 by 6 foot picture of a statue of Mary. 

For the two years since Mexi­
Hipp and injured 32 others.

Heading for the slopes 
can priests and bishops pre-
The station reported that a 
Walsh Hall freshman Erin Nicholas prepares for her physical 
see LIFE/ page 4 
see BUS I page 4 

education class in downhill skiing at Swiss Valley Ski Resort. 

Reich, Foley discuss layoffs, economic stimulus 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Labor Secretary Robert Reich said to­day the Clinton administration likely will seek to extend jobless benefits, saying the latest wave of corporate layoffs shows the "employment picture is still very bad." 
Reich said he was somewhat surprised by announcement of large cutbacks this week at Boeing and Sears but suggested some big companies "have used the recession to do what they should have been doing all along." 
"I don't want to second-guess the management of a particular company . . . but it seems to me cutbacks of a very large scale signal a management failure," he said during an interview on NBC's "Today" show. 
In any respect, the cutbacks are yet another indication that even though "we technically are coming out of recession, the employment picture is still very bad," Reich added. 


Reich said the administration had not yet made a final deci­sion on the details of a short­term economic stimulus pack­age, but insisted that "we are going to do whatever it takes" to create jobs. 
He said that whether it is $15 billion to $20 billion -or $20 billion to $25 billion -in new spending "it's likely there will be a stimulus package and an extension of unemployment benefits." 
House Speaker Tom Foley, meanwhile, said contemplation of a rather modest stimulus package -there once was talk of something on the order of $60 billion -is "a reaction to the fact that we have a very heavy deficit." 
"The fact that the employment picture is still not rebounding fast enough is the reason 
see JOBLESS I page 4 

Trains are halted near crash site after a broken cable is discovered 
GARY, Ind. (AP) -·Trains were halted this week near the bridge where seven people died in last week's commuter train crash when the signal system detected a broken cable, a railroad official said Wednesday. 
It was the 11th time in four months that the system had picked up a problem and flashed a stop light -its proper. function in such situations. 
"When it senses a problem, it goes to red," said Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District spokesman John Parsons. "T~at's what the signal is designed to do." 
Ten similar occurrences were reported at a nearby 
Saint Mary's presidential candidates to debate 
By ELIZABETH QUINLAN 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College contin­ues its election week events with a debate between the tickets Mary Beth Wilkin­son/Lynn O'Donnell and Melissa Whelan/Melissa Peters tonight. 
The debate was planned to help the students make a more informed decision in their choices for leadership in 1993­94 by giving them an opportu­nity to meet and question the candidates,. 
The format for the debate will include a two-minute opening statement by both presidential candidates, followed by a ten to fifteen question session alter­nating between the tickets, and finally an open floor for ques­tioning. 
Wilkinson and O'Donnell hope to initiate a comprehensive recycling program, further the development of Dalloway's and increase student-alumni links with lectures and interviews, they said recently. 
Whelan and Peters plan to in­crease the role of student gov­ernment in student life, im­prove intellectual and social in­teractions between faculty and the student body, and encour­age a stronger relationship between Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross through "movies and speakers and cul­tural events," according to their platform papers. 
The debate for the Saint Mary's College Student Body officers will be at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. The election will be held on February 1, in the dining hall. 
WNDU-16 clair:ns new evidence bus driver sped 
Observer staff report 
One year after a United Limo bus accident which took the lives of two Notre Dame women swimmers, WNDU-16 claimed Wednesday night to have new evidence that the driver of the bus was speeding at upwards of 55 mph -evidence which, if true, would contradict a St. Joseph County grand jury de­cision not to prosecute him. 
During an 11 p.m. broadcast Wednesday, WNDU claimed to have obtained a copy of the of­ficial federal investigation into the accident which killed freshmen swimmers Margaret "Meghan" Beeler and Colleen
The Observer/ Kathy Daly 

signal late last year. No trains were endangered then or in Monday's incident, although five trains were delayed. It was unclear how the cable broke, Parsons said. 
It was the same light that engineer David Riordan said he saw drop from a clear signal to stop as he neared it on the morning of Jan. 18. Seconds later the train was struck by a westbound train, killing seven passengers and injuring more than 60 others. 
Federal investigators say their work so far has uncovered no signal problems on the day of the crash. 
The "home" signal locked on red shortly after 6 p.m. Monday, telling eastbound train No. 19 to stop, Parsons said. The engineer spotted the red light about a half-mile away and was able to stop well before the sig­nal, which is 473 feet from the bridge. 
Riordan told federal in­vestigators the light changed when he was about two car lengths from it. His train 
see TRAIN I page 4 


The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 


Sewing up a storm 
Saint Mary's sophomore Lisa Fortman demonstrates her sewing skills by creating costumes for the Saint Mary's production "Oklahoma!" which will be performed Feb. 25-27. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



JPW gives us better view of our parents 
The other day, I heard ------­
Harry Chapin's "Cat's in  
the Cradle" on the radio.  J. Brian Stalter  
Hearing  that  song,  in  Asst. Viewpoint  
which Chapin laments the  Editor  

difficulty of father/son ________ relationships, and hearing my friends who are ·uniors talking about and planning for the upcoming JPW events got me thinking. 
There are certain moments in our lives in which our relationships with our parents take a turn; a moment where we realize that the delicate balance between giving and taking responsibility has changed. Growing up, going to college, moving out, visiting one's parents as an adult and other 'milestones' all contain moments where our relationship with our parents is redefined. The moment could be a conversation. the opening of a gift, a special letter or anything else. 
For me, a car ride during JPW was such a moment. 
I remember all of the planning and prepara­tion for this big weekend: the worries we all had about how the weekend would go (how our parents might act in front of everyone else's parents, for example), the process of nailing down the precise schedule of events and other logistical matters. 
When the weekend arrived, these concerns faded upon recognition of the fact that JPW was not about scheduling details or "who's going to sit with whom" or "Dad, just please don't tell that story again!" 
No, JPW was and is about the most important relationships in our lives to date. Behind the surface worrins and the flurry of campus events, JPW can be a far more personal experience. It is a weekend which recognizes our parents' importance in our lives; a weekend where we ean say "Thanks, Mom and Dad, for helping us make it this far." 
For me, there was also a 'Chapin-esque' moment. On my way home Sunday, after dropping my parents off at their hotel, I realized that I had not thanked them for coming. Then, in weakness, I thought to myself, "Well, they sort of had to come, right? So it's really no big deal that I didn't thank them. right?" 
Right. Not a big deal. 

Except for the fact that no. they didn't really have to come, and that they did deserve a "Thank you." They had come all the way out here because I had wanted them to. They came to recognize me and my accomplishments, to meet my friends, and to learn more about my life here. They did not come for their own satisfaction, nor were they obligated to come, but I had just convinced myself that they had had to come. 
I realized then that it was no longer acceptable for me to just expect my parents to support me, attend events, drive me to little league, pay for piano lessons, praise my accomplishments and so forth. Not that it was ever acceptable for me to expect them to, but it was during this car ride that this point was driven home to me. 
They did indeed deserve a "thank you," and not just for attending JPW. I called the hotel when I got to my room. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
News Systems Sandy Wiegand Matt Carbone 
Production Viewpoint Kathy Fong Lynn Bauwens Susan Marx 
Accent Sports Gerry Hamilton Jim Vogl Lynn Bauwens Brian Kubicki Amy Shultze 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
,,.. 
The Observer 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 

WORLD Yeltsin signs agreements in India 
•NEW DELHI, India -Boris Yeltsin, the first Kremlin leader to visit India since the Soviet collapse, arrived Wednesday hoping to solve a nagging debt issue and revive sagging trade and military sales. Yeltsin told reporters he also wants to revive Moscow's Soviet-era friendship with 

New Delhi as part of a broader effort to quiet Russian hard-liners, who accuse him of leaning too far to the West. "I have been looking forward with great anticipation to my arrival on this sacred Indian soil," the Russian president told reporters waiting on the tarmac. During the three-day visit, Yeltsin, Indian Prime Minister 
P.V. Narasimha Rao and their aides plan to .sign at least 10 agreements, including a friendship pact to replace one between India and the former Soviet Union. 
Head of Benetton provokes outrage 
•ROME -Clothesmaker Luciano Benetton, the head of the trendy Italian clothing manufacturer United Colors of Benetton has managed to upset Cuban-Americans, Italian charities and colleagues in the Italian senate. He has decided to open five stores in Cuba, by launching a 
OF INTEREST 
•A 
cultural diversity seminar information session will be held today from 4 to 4:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Applications are available at the CSC. 

•ND/SMC 
Right to Life and Children of Mary will sponsor a rosary service in front of the Women's Pavilion, South Bend's abortion clinic, tomorrow from 8 to 10:30 a.m. Rides will leave from the Main Circle at 8 


a.m. and 9 a.m. The Missionary Image of Our Lady of Guadalupe will be present. 
•A Summer Service Project information meeting will be today from 5:30 to 6 p.m. at the Center for Social Con­cerns. Participants in the eight week service project can earn a $1400 tuition scholarship. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING January 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 276,941,765 -1.08 to 241.45 S&P COMPOSITE -1.84 to 438.11 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -7.56 to 3,291.39

UNCHANGED 590 

GOLD -$1.20 to $329.90 
SILVER -$0.02 to $3.682 

Thursday, January 28, 1993 
Cloudy today with a chance of light rain or flurries, and high around 40. Colder Friday with a 50 percent chance of 
and high in the mid 20s. 
RATURES 

H  L  
13  12  
49  30  
68  41  
66  43  
41  27  
36  34  
58  34  
29  21  
41  31  
61  43  
52  43  
83  53  
61  36  
14  07  
25  10  
50  25  
35  31  
50  48  
38  30  
36  57  
53  45  
40  32  
52  41  
37  24  

campaign to collect used clothing for the world's poor and by posing nude for an advertisement. Several senators asked the head of the upper house, in which Benetton has a seat, to pronounce whether the "absence of good taste is compatible with the sense of decorum and dignity" of an elected representative. Benetton, elected in April on a wave of protest against party regulars, seems to thrive on the controversies that have surrounded the company's ad campaigns for years. 
NATIONAL Young mother intoxicates daughter 
•AUSTIN, 
Texas -An 18-year-old mother is charged with injury to a child for feeding her 2-year-old daughter so much champagne the infant required hospital treatment. police said. "She's a young mother ... she figured it would help her go to sleep," the child's grandmother, Angela Duncan, said Tuesday. A felony arrest warrant was issued Monday for the mother Trence Duncan, said Sgt. John Hardesty. If convicted, she faces up to life in prison and up to $10,000 in fines. Two hours after Emergency Medical Services workers took 2-year-old Jasmin to a hospital Jan. 6, her blood­alcohol content tested at 0.094 percent-just below the state's definition of drunkenness, according to court records. 

•Summer 
residence hall staff applications are now available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 Main Building, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. 

•The 
Snite Museum of Art's annual faculty show will exhibit the works of Notre Dame faculty members from Jan.31 through April 4 in the West Gallery, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The show is free and open to the public. 

•"Eastern 
Standard," the Lewis Hall Play will be performed in Washington Hall at 8:10 p.m. on Jan. 28,29,30 and at 2:10 p.m. on Jan. 31. Tickets are avail­able at the LaFortune Student Center box office and are $3 for students and $5 for general public. All proceeds benefit AIDS awareness. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1878: The first daily college newspaper, the Yale News, began publication in New Haven, Conn. 

• 
In 1909: The United States ended direct control over Cuba. 

• 
In 1916: Louis Brandeis was appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court, becoming its first Jewish member. 

• 
In 1973: A cease-fire officially went into effect in the Vietnam War. 

• 
In 1986: The space shuttle Challenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff from Cape Canaveral, Fla., killing all seven crew members, including schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe. 

• 
In 1988: The Supreme Court of Canada struck down the nation's restrictive abortion law. 




----..-----~---~ -------------T-h.....e_O_b...s_e_rv_e_r----~-------------------p-ag_e_3---....----ll Thursday, January 28, 1993 

Clinton: Policy on gays will include code of conduct on sexual behavior 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Clinton, intent on revers­ing the military's ban on homo­sexuals despite intense opposi­tion, will include in his policy a "strict code of conduct" gov­erning sexual behavior of all troops, the White House said today. 
As opponents of Clinton's pol­icy lit up switchboards at the White House and on Capitol Hill, the administration geared up its lobbying effort, sending Defense Secretary Les Aspin to lobby members of Congress. Clinton himself called one pow­erful opponent, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn of Georgia. 
In a speech on the Senate floor this afternoon, Nunn reit­erated the need for extensive hearings on the issue and his opposition to lifting the ban, but did not repeat his previous criticisms of Clinton's handling of the issue. 
"It's in everyone's interest to see if we can resolve this issue through consensus rather than confrontation," Nunn said. "There's always time for con­frontation later if it cannot be solved by consensus, but per­haps it can." 
Nunn remained steadfast in his belief that any change in 
Ill 
z 
.... 






HEY UNIORS! 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS & JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE 
PICK THEM UP AT THE OmcE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 19, 1993 
Sam Nunn 

the policy is the shared re­sponsibility of the executive branch and Congress. He pre­sented a series of provocative questions that must be an­swered before any action is taken, including whether sepa­rate living quarters or any changes in law on sodomy would be needed. 
"I urge that the White House, the president and all his advisers, including the secre­tary of defense, think through these questions very carefully before they take any kind of action that could be perceived as final," he said. 
"It's not simply the right of homosexuals at stake. It's also the right of all those men and women who serve in the mili­tary." 
January 

5:30 -6:00 pm Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATION DEADLINE February 12 
$1400.00 SCHOLARSHIP (ND students only) 
Eigh1 weeks of service work during the summer 
Clinton spokesman George Stephanopoulos said Clinton planned to detail his policy Thursday. The announcement had been scheduled today, but Clinton wanted at least one more day to lobby and consult lawmakers. 
The president refused to an­swer reporters' questions on issue of gays in the military at a picture-taking session with members of Congress, insisting that the meeting was to focus solely on the economy. 
Asked if the controversy was distracting him from being able to develop his economic pro­gram, Clinton snapped: "No, it's distracting you. It's not dis­tracting me." 
Democrats on the Senate Armed Services Committee were meeting with Clinton at the White House this evening. Aspin held a breakfast meeting with top members of the con­gressional military and defense appropriations committees. 
The spokesman acknowledged the White House was receiving "a fair amount" of phone calls opposing Clinton's position, but said the new president was undaunted by the outcry. 
l\1eeting 28 

Tax increase may be needed to cut deficit 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Clinton said today he's unsure he can meet his goal of cutting the deficit by $145 billion without raising taxes, but should have an answer when he outlines his plan to Congress next month. 
"I've not made any deci· sions yet" on whether to in­clude a tax on energy con­sumption as part of the plan. Clinton said. Such a tax had been mentioned as a strong possibility by Treasury Sec­retary Uoyd Bentsen. 
"I'm going to give a speech to the joint session Feb. 17 and I'm going to lay out my program then," Clinton said at a picture-taking session as .he met with chairmen of congressional budget, appropriations and tax­writing committees. 
"This is the first opportunity l've had to meet with the eco­nomic leadership. of the Congress," Clinton said at the beginning of the Oval Office meeting. 
Asked if he could meet a goal of cutting the deficit in four years by $145 billion without increasing taxes, Clinton said: "I don't know the answer to that. We're working on it." 
During the campaign, Clin­ton vowed to cut the deficit in half in four years. But since he made that pledge last winter, the deficit increased to an estimated record $327 
billion., Clinton earlier this month 
Family leave law seems on fast track toward approval 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Fam­ily leave legislation moved for­ward on its fast track Wednes­day as Democrats on the House Labor Committee beat back more than a dozen attempts by the GOP to amend it. 
The panel approved the bill, 29-13, after a lengthy debate in which Republicans repeatedly offered proposed changes, only to have them all rejected on mostly party line votes. 
Republicans complained that Democrats were steamrolling over discussion about reason­able changes to the bill, which would give workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave to care for a newborn or a sick rela­tive. Companies with less than 50 workers would be exempt. 
"The Clinton administration said it wants to work together -that process was not evident 

Hurry! 
Only 2 Houses Left 
•4 
and 5 Bedroom 

•Security 
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished 



287-4989 Laurie McKelvey $100 off 
first months rent with this ad 
modified the promise, saying he didn't expect he could halve the deficit but still hoped to be able to trim itby about $145 billion-roughly half of what the deficit was last January. 
The president was asked if the controversy over his plan to lift the ban on homo­sexuals in the military was distracting him from focusing on the economy. "No, it's distracting you. It's not distracting me," he said. 
Earlier, White House spokesman George Stephanopoulos said that Clinton was working on the economic plan "every day" and some advisers were "working around the clock" to get it ready for Clinton's Feb. 17th speech to a joint session ofCongress. 
Clinton's decision to push his proposal to lift the ban on homosexuals in the military before submitting his eco­nomic plan does not signal lack of engagement on the economic measure, Stephanopoulos 'said. 
"He will continue to work on it, and we'll have a solid announcement on the 17th,,. Stephanopoulos said. "The president is going about the business at hand with the economy.... We're committed to passing a strong economic package." 
Stephanopoulos said Clinton anticipates "a spring filled with action on the economy and health care." 
in this hearing," Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-Calif., said after the hearing. 
The GOP amendments ranged from one tightening language about the circum­stances under which aworker could take unpaid time off to one giving businesses more time to comply. Democrats said the changes weren't needed. 
Rep. William Ford, D-Mich., scolded Republicans when they asked for roll call votes rather than letting them go down by voice vote. 
"We've got to finish this bill today. You may not like it but I'll be here with Democrats if that's all we have left at mid­night. This bill's going forward -today," Ford said. 
House Speaker Thomas Fo­ley, D-Wash., plans to put the bill on the House floor at the middle of next week. 
A similar Senate version is likely to come up later this week or early next week, although some Republicans in that chamber have threatened to sidetrack it with an amend-· ment on gays in the military. 
''I'm hopeful that the head­line grabbers don't try to get in the spotlight by using this bill," said Rep. Pat Williams, D­Mont., as Democrats cried foul over the rumored GOP revolt. 
Democratic supporters of the family leave bill and President Clinton want it passed quickly to prove that things can get done in Washington now that one party controls both the White House and Congress. 
~ 
--~--~---------­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1993 
Thousands line up around court to mourn Marshall 
WASHINGTON lAP)  - Thou­ Haiti who attends a Miami high  Supreme Court justice to be  He argued the Supreme Court  through the building's main  
sands of Americans, black and  school. "He did the best he  honored by having his casket lie  cases that led to the landmark  entrance, walking under the  
white together. visited Thur­ could for this country ... for  in state at the court building.  1954 decision outlawing racial  words carved into marble 58  
good Marshall's casket as he lay  blacks and whites."  The other was Chief Justice  segregation in public education,  years ago: "Equal Justice Under  
in state Wednesday. The line of  Marshall's wife, Cecilia, and  Earl Warren in 1974.  a ruling that broke the back of  Law."  
mourners wrapped around the  two sons, Thurgood and John  His funeral will be at Wash­ American apartheid.  Retired  Justice  William  
Supreme Court building where  William, led a procession into  ington Cathedral on Thursday,  Marshall was appointed to the  Brennan, 86, remained inside,  
he won his greatest civil rights  the imposing building on Capitol  and a private burial is planned  high court in 1967 by President  seated in a wheelchair.  
victory and later served 24  Hill.  for Friday at Arlington National  Lyndon B. Johnson. He retired  Brennan, Marshall's closest  
years as the first black justice.  "The battle done, the victory  Cemetery.  18 months ago.  friend on the high court, needed  
Many said they felt compelled  won  ...  the songs of triumph  As  Marshall's  casket  was  help from Justice David Souter  
to say goodbye to a man  they  have begun. Hallelujah," said  In 23 years as chief counsel  carried across a sunlit marble  to join the others when they  
never met.  Kawsai Thornell, canon of the  for the National Association for  plaza, current and retired jus­ stood in silence as the casket  
"lie was a man of courage. a  Washington Cathedral, during a  the Advancement of Colored  tices waited as honorary pall­ was placed on the black-draped  
man of dignity and a  man of  brief ceremony.  People, Marshall established  bearers  atop  the  imposing  bier that once supported the  
strength," said  Erold  Jean  Marshall, who died Sunday at  himself as the nation's greatest  steps.  coffins of Abraham Lincoln and  
Francois, an  immigrant from  age 84, became only the second  civil rights lawyer.  They accompanied the casket  John Kennedy.  
Life  leges. According to Keen, the purpose of his travel is "specifically to end abortion and  the groups will sponsor a rosary service at South Bend's only abortion clinic, Women's  judgmental." The purpose will be to show people that "we re­ally care," he said, adding that  the opposition will touched.  also  be  
continued from page 1  encourage pro-life."  Pavilion, located at 2010 Iron­wood Circle. Buses will leave  he hopes women entering the clinic will be touched by the  Immediately following the demonstration, there will be a  
sented United States Catholics  Thursday's observance will  the main circle at 8 and 9 a.m.  prayerfulness and peacefulness  Mass at Saint Mary's. The series  
with the gift, Lynch has been  end with a rosary service in the  of the occasion. While he real­ will culminate with opportunity  
touring the country, stopping at  log chapel at 10 p.m.  Keen said the service will be  izes there could be opposition to  for veneration of the image until  
conferences, churches and col- Friday, from 8 to 10:30 a.m.,  "non-confrontational and non- this event, Keen said, he hopes  2:30p.m.  
Jobless  people who don't have a college education, who don't have the skills. They are seeing jobs dis­ last fall. particularly after President Clinton won the November election with an  confidence may have taken a jolt by the grim news Tuesday of tens of thousands of jobs  113 stores and shut down its catalog. In a letter to Pratt & Whitney  
continued from page 1  appear and it may be  a very  economic  program  that  headed for elimination by some  employees,  the jet engine­ 
long time before they get jobs  promised to create 8 million  of the nation's bigger compa­ maker's president, Karl Krapek, 
they're  moving  toward  a  back. And when they do get a  new jobs over four years.  nies.  said  Tuesday  the  company 
stimulus package," Foley said  job, they may not be paid as  Boeing, the world's largest  would  cut  10,664  from  its  
on "CBS This Morning." "But it's  well."  People's perception of how the  maker of commercial aircraft,  payroll by the end of next year 
going to be a moderate one and  economy  is  doing  - and  said it plans drastic cuts in pro­ - and most of the cuts would  
it's going to be linked to a very  David Jones. an economist at  particularly how the job market  duction and employment, jet  be in Florida and Connecticut.  
severe, very tough-minded long­ Aubrey Lanston & Co..  a gov­ is shaping up ­ is an important  engine-maker Pratt & Whitney  "The deepening recession" in  
term deficit reduction policy."  ernment securities dealer in  part of determining the econ­ said it plans to do away with  the aviation industry was to  
Heich said on NBC he was "not  New York, said layoffs like those  omy's course. When people fear  10,000 jobs, and IBM Corp.  blame, Krapek wrote.  
terribly worried" about people  announced Tuesday by Boeing  losing income they spend less,  announced it will slash its divi­ Boeing, which reported that its  
losing  high-salaried  pro­ and other big employers "takes  and that puts a  pinch on the  dend and look for a new boss.  earnings fell in 1992 to a third  
fessional jobs because over the  some of the bloom off the rose"  economy.  of what it earned the year 
long term "they are going to get  of economic recovery.  The cuts came one day after  before, said it had not decided  
jobs."  Consumers seem to be ex­ Sears, Roebuck and Co. an­ how much of its work force  
"The people I am most wor­ Consumer optimism about the  pecting brighter days for the  nounced it will eliminate about  would be cut. But it said "it is  
ried about," he said, "are the  economy's outlook picked up  economy under Clinton, but that  50,000 jobs by early 1994, close  expected to be significant."  
Train  who was on tram No. 19 Monday, told the Post-Tribune of Gary. "After a fatal accident,  Ihe rarlroad swiiched to DC between South Bend and Michigan City last year, will  Our vtew of that mctdent IS that that's an isolated oc­currence," Benson said. "It  and trams. have been found, either. Investigators have not ruled out human error. A final  
continued from page 1  I just can't believe they're  make the change between Gary  happens time to time, but the  report is expected in about nine  
having problems again."  and Michigan City this year, and  system performed as designed."  months.  
stopped about 250 feet from the  plans to ask for federal money  Monday's incident has had  After the signal locked on  
bridgP.  The railroad is in the process  to do the same from Gary to  no  effect  on  the  crash  red Monday, crew members  
The "approach" signal about  of upgrading the electrically  Chicago next year, Parsons said.  investigation, Benson said. He  stopped the trains, alerted  
a rnilP from the bridge dropped  powered 75-mile route it serves  stressed that investigators have  dispatchers. walked through the  
from clear to stop eight times in  between  South  Bend  and  The bridge is in the section to  found no indications there were  one-way bridge to make sure  
October, investigators said. That  Chicago, Parsons said. The  be completed next year. ·The  problems with the signals at the  there was no oncoming traffic  
problem was traced to a com­ three-year project, in its second  system that guides trains across  time of the crash.  and waved the train safely  
puter  board  and  repaired,  phase in 1993, was prompted  the  narrow  trestle  was  No problems with the track  through, Parsons said.  
although  the  same  thing  by  a  Federal  Railroad  upgraded in 1983, Parsons said.  
happened  once  in  late  Administration audit in 1991.  He couldn't say if the sit­ 
November  and  in  late  De­ The agency recommended all  uations Monday and  on  the  
cember. No work was done on  railroads change their electric  morning of the crash  were  
the system  following  those  systems  from  alternating  similar  or  related.  Michael  
instances, oflicials said.  current  to  direct  current  Benson. a spokesman with the  
"They have got to be made to  because the older AC system  National Transportation Safety  
put new equipment in," Peter  "may have the potential to give  Board,  said  investigators  
Erickson, a Michigan City man  ...  a green signal instead of a  believe the two situations were  
red signal."  unrelated.  
Bus  
continued from page 1  Thinking of doing  
probe by the National Trans­portation and Safety Board claims that several eyewit­ ayear of service?  
nessHs told investigators the bus drivHn by 53 year-old Iloward Dixon was travelling at an excessive speed against icy  How about doingit  
eonditions on the Indiana Toll Hoad January 24, 1992. The WNDU report also indi­ for alifetime?  
cated that some police invPsti­ 
gators shared the view that Dixon was driving too fast dur­ Have you considered  
ing the snow storm. According to the  report,  THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR?  
Dixon told federal investigators  A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the  
he lost control of the vehicle  University of Notre Dame for college graduates  
when the brakes locked on the  interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime  No one prepares you for the MCAT  better than Kaplan. Our MCAT  
around 40-45 mph. Additional information was 


icy road. lie claimed to have 
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
P""'P cot.lr&e teaches you exactly what the t-t covers and the t-t­
been driving at a slower speed, 
Scholarship assistance is available. 
taking ak.ills you'll need to acore your best. We offer live classea,
llorne study not-, and audio review. P1us, no one IN 58 has a more 
Call or write for information: 
exte.-.ive MCAT resource library than Kaplan.
unavailable at press time. 

Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. 
~ 
Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 
DIPPING 
IS FOR 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
r 


KAPLAN
DIPS 

(219) 239-6385 
• 
The answer to the teat qu-tion. 


~----------~--~------------------~----------------~--~-----------------------------------------------.--~--~.. 
Thursday, January 28, 1993 The Observer page 5 
LA tense as second trial of police nears 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Police want to buy more riot gear, the mayor plans to send peace­makers door to door, and peo­ple in South Central are warn­ing of trouble as the federal trial of four policemen in the Rodney King beating draws near. 
"Anybody who tells you what is going to happen is simply guessing," said Deputy Mayor Mark Fabiani. "The mood is very tense. We're preparing for the worst, but hoping for the best." 
Jury selection begins Wednesday in the trial of four white officers who were cap­tured on videotape beating King, a black motorist, after a car chase in 1991. 
The officers were acquitted of assault in state court in April, touching off three days of riots in mostly black South Central Los Angeles. The violence left 53 people dead and 10,000 businesses destroyed. Damage was put at $1 billion. 
The riots produced another videotaped beating and another trial with explosive implica­tions: News helicopters cap­tured the beating of Reginald Denny, a white truck driver who was dragged from his rig by a mob in the opening mo­ments of the riots. 
Four black men have been charged in the attack. The trial of three of the men starts March 15 and could overlap the King case. 
"There is great fear about the outcome of these trials," Fabiani said. "People in the African-American community are fearful that justice may again be denied, especially in the federal trial." 
Mayor Bradley is organizing a "Neighbor-to-N ei ghb or" program, in which hundreds of volunteers will visit housing projects, schools and shopping centers to urge calm during the trials. Volunteers are being re­cruited. 
The Police Commission, at the request Police Chief Willie Williams, voted last week to ask the City Council for $1 million to spend on riot equipment, in­cluding rubber bullets, tear-gas bombs and police vans. The request is pending. 
Williams, a soft-spoken black man and police reformer, suc­ceeded Daryl Gates, who was forced out over the King con­troversy. 
This week, people near the intersection of Florence and Normandie avenues -where Denny was attacked -said there could be more violence. 
"People are saying they want justice. If there's no justice this time, there won't be no peace," said Lee Haylock, standing in his employer's auto parts store. 
At Art's Chili Dogs, a worker who refused to allow his name 
to be used predicted more vio­
lence. 
Happy

B • thd 



The Observer/ Cynthia Exconde 

Tickling the ivories 
A music major at Saint Mary's, junior Julie Goodnow works on an assignment for her music theory class in a practice room at Moreau Hall. 

Tampa man opens fire in office cafe; kills 3, wounds 2 before killing himself 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -A man wearing a business suit .r:eport­edly shouted "This is what you all get for firing me!" and opened fire in an office building cafe during lunchtime Wednesday, killing thr-ee people and wounding two. The man later was found dead in a nearby park, an apparent sui­cide. 
The gunman, Paul Calden, 33, was a former employee of Fireman's Fund Insurance Co.'s local office, said Steve Cole, spokesman for the Tampa Police Department. "It was not a matter of him going into the cafeteria and just 
spraying in every direction," Cole said. "It appears he tar­geted people at one or two ta­hies, people he may have known, people he may have worked with." 
A Firemen's Fund spokesman wouldn't say whether the victims were employees. 
Police initially believed Calden might still be in the 12-story building after the shootings, and they made a room-by-room sweep as workers stayed inside their offices. But hours later 
Calden was found dead in a rental car in a park in nearby Clearwater. Police said he apparently shot himself. 
Abraham Reid, whose wife was in the cafeteria when the shooting broke out, said she called him afterward and quoted the gunman as saying: "This is what you all get for fir­ing me!" 
Later, Sarah Reid, 33, said the man was an arm's length away from her when the shooting started in the Island Center office building's first-floor cafe. 
"It's totally unbelievable. I just thank God he spared my life," she said. She said he "just shot all these people around this one table. 
"It sounded like a firecracker and I thought it was a joke. I just looked up and all of a sud­den I saw the man just shoot­ing. Then everybody started screaming and we all just got up and knocked over the table and tried to run.'' 
The cafeteria, a 20-table lunch spot, had some 25 diners during the lunchtime shooting. 






trTo ay ~,!;~~r~!u,~~e:In~~nt?~~:::o~:~}~.,~~~~~c?::h ~~1?o~x 
Me... 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Account Executives work with clients on a daily basis and should possess good communication skills, a friendly personality and a strong work ethic. 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal state­ment'of intent or a resume toMike Hobbs by 5 p.m. Friday, January 29. Contact Mike Hobbs at 1-8840 for more information. 
agents were snared in a U.S. Customs sting aimed at uncov­ering lawmen who allegedly ripped off drug dealers and laundered the money, authori­ties said Wednesday. 
It was believed to be the largest number of federal agents ever arrested at one time, said Leonard Freedman, regional internal affairs direc­tor for Customs. 
One FBI and three Customs agents were charged with stealing and laundering $200,000, he said. 
"We're not going to tolerate any of these characters working in law enforcement," Freedman said. "These are anom~es who stole and laundered money.'' 
He said it was possible more 
charges could be expanded after search warrants were served. 
One Customs agent in Miami, Orlando White, 42, was the original target of the 18-month investigation, Freedman said. 
Customs internal affairs had received information White was "dirty," said Freedman, who refused to elaborate. 
Freedman said the investi­gation of White led to the other agents -the FBI's Louis Reveiz, 27, brother of NFL place kicker Fuad Reveiz of the Minnesota Vikings, and Cus­toms agents Alcides Licona, 4 7, of Miami, and Ricardo Laurel, 3 7, of Houston. 
"They were all friends," Freedman said. Deals were 



Saint Mary's 
Student Body Election 



DEBATES 
Thursday, January 28 7p.m. 
Haggar Parlor 
Students are encouraged to meet the candidates 
watches and other expensive gifts, said a federal law en­forcement source who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The four agents have been charged with theft of govern­ment property and money laundering so far, said Freed­man. 
The sting began in August 1991 when White was ap­proached by a Customs infor­mant with a plan to rip off $80,000 to $100,000 from a fictitious "black guy-career criminal," according to a fed-era! affidavit. 
White was reluctant, at first, but eventually went to the hotel room of the supposed trafficker and stole $82,000 agents had planted there, the affidavit said. Unknown to him, Customs videotaped the burglary. White allegedly kept $30,000 of the cash, said the affidavit. 

Correction 

In a story in yesterday's edition, The Observer incor­rectly spelled the name of Dr. Sara Strickler of Saint Mary's Health Service. The Observer regrets the error. 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE Our good rates may save you money We now offer a . Good Student Discount 
Call for a quote 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 289~ 1993 Office next to Campus 
page 6 


Freighter carrying fuel stops its perilous drift 
WILMINGTON, N.C. (AP) ­The crew of a storm-tossed freighter with nearly 400,000 gallons of fuel lowered its an­chors today, apparently stop­ping its perilous, daylong drift toward the shoals, the Coast Guard said. 
The 600-foot Lyra broke loose from a tug offshore Tuesday morning as the container ship was being towed from Baltimore to New Orleans. No crew members were aboard for the trip. 
A Marine helicopter dropped captain Debbie Dempsey, her chief mate and two engineers onto the deck in 20-foot seas in mid-afternoon. 
They were unable to get generators working to drop the anchors and instead manually lowered them around 12:30 a.m., Coast Guard Lt. Cmdr. Larry Hammond said. 
"The anchors are holding," he said. "We'll wait until daylight and as seas diminish, they're going to try to put a tow line on it." 
The ship had drifted south­west about 13 miles to within 17 miles of Frying Pan Shoals, an area of shallow water off Cape Fear, the Coast Guard said. 
The wind was blowing south at 40 to 50 mph, and oil-spill teams were sent in from New Jersey and Alabama for a "worst-case scenari9, like it goes aground and all the oil spills out," said Coast Guard Petty Officer Wayne Weeks. 
The ship had no cargo but about 380,000 gallons of fuel, most of it heavy oil, the Coast Guard said. 
The vessel's owners, Lykes Unes of New Orleans, "are very, very optimistic" that a wreck can be averted, spokesman Ardley Hanemann said. 

Bacteria in· hamburger sicken scores, kill one 
SEATTLE (AP) -It's one of the worst nightmares a parent can have. 
Deadly bacteria infiltrates hamburger. Undercooking at a popular fast-food chain fails to kill the bacteria. Scores of people get sick and one child dies. 
Thousands of others wait with dread through an incu­bation period as long as a week and a half after con­sumption to see if they will develop the disease. For most, that period ended only Wednesday. 
The illness is called hemolytic uremic syndrome. It was traced to Jack in the Box outlets in Washington, Idaho, Nevada and possibly California. It has produced symptoms ranging from bloody diarrhea and intense abdominal pain to stroke-like bleeding in the brain and irreversible damage to intestines and kidneys. 
"To think that something like this can come from hamburger meat," said Dean Forbes of Children's Hospital, where most of the most severely ill youngsters have been treated. "It's a nightmare for the parents." 
As many as 40,000 burgers were sold from potentially contaminated shipments, company and health officials said. 
As of Wednesday, Forbes said, 18 patients in the hos­pital were being treated for infection by the coliform bac­teria E. coli 0157:H7, including 10 on kidney dialysis and one in critical condition. That is just one strain of the common 
E. coli bacteria. 
Aundrea Dolan, 2 1/2, re­gained her health fairly quickly. Her sister, Mary, almost 4, recovered from a stroke and returned home Friday. 
En route to a follow-up blood test, Aundrea saw a Jack in the Box and wanted to stop, recalled her father, Joseph Dolan of Kent. 




StartlineM 
I 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 
• 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES When you write 8 checks or less 

• 
NO MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
FREE INSTANT CASH ATMACCESS 



• 
FREE FIRST ORDER OF CHECKS Standard design 

• 
PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES 



Corne to expect the best. 

NORWEST BANKS 

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. CO 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 
---~~-------~---~--·~ 
The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1993 

Spreading the word 
Junior Ed Miller posts a flyer in Flanner Hall advertising for Irish Accent, the campus comedy group, which will perform tonight at 9 p.m. in The Ballroom. 
Former colleagues predict Hillary Clinton will be 'idealistic,' 'pragmatic' in new post 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­Hillary Rodham Clinton will be "idealistic and pragmatic" as she heads a presidential task force tackling the health care system, say those who recall her tenure as Arkansas' top education reformer. 
In that post a decade ago, they say, she did not "pull rank" as Gov. Bill Clinton's wife­appointee but won consensus on sweeping changes that forced the hiring of thousands of new teachers and the merging of dozens of districts. 
Teacher competency tests and a tax increase accompanied the reforms. 
"She listened, she analyzed, she was extremely effective," said Walter Turnbow, who served on the Arkansas Educa­tion Standards Com.mittee, which Mrs. Clinton chaired in 1983. 
"The standards for Arkansas public schools were the lowest or among the lowest," recalled another committee member, Cora McHenry, who credited Mrs. Clinton with bringing order out of the chaos of com­peting reform ideas. "Since 1983, it's really an amazing change." 
"She was a tireless worker," added Don Roberts, then head of the state Education Depart­ment and now superintendent 

Friday, January 29 is .... 


LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
Come out and cheer on your hall and help 
the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
... 

Even though sign-ups for the team events are 
over, you can still participate. LATE NIGHT 
runsfroin 8:00pm to 4:00am tommorrow . 
There will be Open skating, a SLAM DUNK con­test and the ND Alumni Association will have the 1989 Fiesta Bowl Cyclorama open. 

Be on the lookout later this week for more infor­mation concerning the SLAM DUNK contest and the Fiesta Bowl Cyclorama. 
of the Fort Worth, Texas, schools. The standards Mrs. Clinton shepherded through "helped move Arkansas for­ward." · 
Not everyone agrees. Some educators are still smarting from the one-time teacher competency test, and conserva­tive groups have complained that some of the reforms erode local control and aim to change children's values. 
"I don't think we've really made progress in this state," said Marilyn Simmons of the group FLAG, or Family, Life, America, God. The organization is affiliated with Phyllis Schlafly's Eagle Forum. 


c.r
' 

Thursday, January 28, 1993 The Observer page 7 


Croatian clashes frustrate mediators 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Serbs unleashed their heaviest artillery bom­bardment of Sarajevo in weeks Wednesday as fighting also raged in neighboring Croatia, jeopardizing peace efforts for the whole region. 
The clashes across Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina have frustrated peace mediators and increased concerns that ethnic warfare would spread deeper into the Balkans. A U.N. state­ment hinted that peacekeepers could be withdrawn from Croa­tia if the battles persist. 
More than 27,000 people have been killed in the two former republics since fighting broke out in June 1991. A year­long truce was broken last week in Croatia. 
In the Bosnian capital, radio stations appealed for people to stay off the streets. But by sun­down, hospital and morgue of­ficials reported at least 17 peo­ple, including two children, had died and 77 were wounded. 
Three of the victims were killed when a 120mm mortar shell slammed into a crowd waiting for a bus on Sarajevo's main east-west road. 
Heavy fighting also was re­ported around the besieged city's western suburbs and the airport as the U.N. High Com­missioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, made a one-day visit. 
Ogata accused Croat militias in central Bosnia of blocking relief convoys, endangering hundreds of thousands of peo­ple dependent on aid. She said the renewed fighting in Croatia was unleashing a new wave of refugees. 
Ethnic Serb militias in Croatia counterattacked in an attempt to dent Croatian military gains close to the Serbs' nerve center, Knin. Croatian forces had launched attacks on Friday, endangering a year-old U.N. peace agreement that ended Croatia's civil war in which 10,000 people died. 
A Lecture by 


Gerard Powers 
Office of International Justice and Peace 
U.S. Catholic Conference 
"Sarajevo and Self-Determination: Building an Old New World Order?" 
Co-Sponsored with the Social Justice Forum Monday, February I Noon Room 220, Law School Courtroom 

Yugoslavian farmers violate U.N. sanctions 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Farmers in Yugoslavia's eastern regions have abandoned their fields to join a small army of smugglers who are violating a U.N. embargo with panache. 
A flotilla of six barges car­rying crude oil from the Ukraine reached Yugoslav waters late Tuesday after its captain told Romanian and Bulgarian port authorities he would blow up the cargo if they stopped him. 
The U.N. sanctions were imposed last May to punish Belgrade leaders -particu­larly Slobodan Milosevic, the hard-line president of Serbia -for inciting the war in neighboring Bosnia-Herze­govina. 
Western expectations that the sanctions would bring Yugoslavia to its knees have gone unfulfilled, in part be­cause the effects have been hidden by reams of newly printed money and govern­ment, bans on firing workers. 
Those policies could eventually yield economic collapse -and Milosevic's downfall. 
But in the short term, his political standing has grown amid the anger and frustration of many Serbs who feel they are unfairly treated by the West. His popular image has been enhanced by the relative ineffectiveness of the embargo. 
"How can you feel anything but disdain for the embargo after a stunt like that?~' said one Belgrade smuggler, who identified himself only as Prle, referring to Tuesday's incident. 
International inspectors "are a bother, but they leave the borders unattended every night to get their eight hours of beauty sleep, and each weekend they go off for their well-deserved rest," he added. 
"Who Killed Donald Duck?" screamed the headlines in Belgrade newspapers, which at the same time accused the United States of "cultural imperialism." 
Deported Palestinians offered phones on eve of court ruling 

JERUSALEM (AP) -On the eve of a critical supreme court ruling, Israel offered Wednes­day to give the deported Pales­tinians in Lebanon cellular telephones so they can consult their lawyers on their appeals. 
The proposal was part of the government's response to a court query about how Israel intended to respect the exiled men's right to legal counsel, said Defense Ministry spokesman Oded Ben-Ami. He said the offer of phones bolsters Jerusalem's contention that due 

0 

LEASING NOW FOR AUGUST 1 And 2 Bedrooin Apartinents 


Apartments availiable for your selection. 
• 9 MONTH LEASES• 
•All utilities included• 
•Relaxed, Secure Environment• 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 272-1441 
process was not compromised by the expulsions. 
The seven-justice supreme court panel is expected to rule Thursday on the legality of the deportations, the Justice Min­istry said. 
A key question before the court is the hurried way in which 415 men were expelled Dec. 17 from the occupied terri­tories. Civil rights attorneys have argued that the deportees were denied their right to due process because they were not given a chance to appeal. 
If the court rules against the deportations, the government appears to have no choice but to repatriate the Palestinians from their tent camp in Le­banon, effectively ending the crisis and heading off possible 
U.N. penalties. 

Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin told Israel television "the government will carry out Supreme Court decisions." 
Israeli newspapers have re­ported that some Cabinet min­isters, dismayed at the way the affair has boomeranged against Israel in world opinion, are hoping the court will rule the deportations were illegal, thus giving Israel a face-saving way out. 
U.S. envoy: 

U.N. too slow taking control in Somalia 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­
U.S. special envoy Robert Oakley accused the United Na­tions on Wednesday of "dragging its feet" on taking over military command in So­malia from the United States. 
He said the United States and other nations were pressing 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to name a re­spected independent mediator to help Somalia's warring fac­tions on the road to peace. 
"There's a quiet, collective push to get Mr. Boutros-Ghali to do for Somalia what he seems to be comfortable with in Bosnia," said Oakley. 
Boutros-Ghali appointed former U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance last August to seek a negotiated settlement to the war in Bosnia. Vance is work­ing alongside Lord Owen, a former British foreign secre­tary who is the European Community mediator. 
"It doesn't have to be Vance and Owen, but someone of in­dependent stature," Oakley said in an interview. "It would make the United Nations a lot stronger ... and it would fit very nicely with the idea of having a military commander flying the 
U.N. flag." 

The United Nations has had two special envoys to Somalia, a post currently held by Ismat Kittani, an Iraqi. It was not clear whether Oakley meant to imply criticism of Kittani. 
Oakley, a former U.S. am­bassador to Somalia, was brought out of retirement by former President Bush to help oversee operation Restore Hope, launched to feed Soma­lia's starving. 
Many relief officials also be­lieve a commanding interna­tional figure is crucial to bring­ing a lasting peace to Somalia. An independent mediator would also help allay fears among many Somalis of an­other U.N. takeover of their country, which was a U.N. trusteeship from 1950 to 1960. 
"I am all for it because I be­lieve it's too big a job for the quality of U.N. personnel that are here," said Mike McDon­agh, field director for the Irish relief agency Concern. 

Attention Freshmen 
JPW ESCAPE TO 


CHICAGO 
20~21 februai~ oi}!J 
There is a limited amount of CYSs; space still available. 
Tickets sold only through Friday. 
Si!(n up ASAP at the Student Government office on the second floor ofLafortune. 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, January 28, 1993 
The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ..•..... Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor ••..•••.....•..... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ••........... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .........•.. Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........•............... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/OTS 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 

wou \d e.ndange r­mora\e., pr·,vac.>' J and d·lsc.ipline .•• 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Environment can be key factor in eating disorders 
Editor's note: The following the family supports the myth of recovery. While most per­ing individually, in a group or direct and state why certain is part two in a three part that weight can be controlled sons with an eating disorder with the family; joining a 12 behaviors and attitudes you series for Eating Disorder volitionally and the responsibil­know there is a problem, at­step program such as have observed concern you and Awareness Week which begins ity for regulating weight be­tempts at self-treatment usually Overeaters Anonymous, etc.). suggest they may indicate some this Sunday: longs to the daughter or son; 3) lead to repeated failures. common therapeutic themes type of eating problem. 
family members model weight Underlying these failures is include helping the person with Please recognize that patterns 
Many people ask the question preoccupation and dieting; and intense ambivalence about and eating disorder to: 1) of behavior over time may "Why do some people develop 4) family members critically "getting better" because establish a sense of identity suggest a problem while an an eating disorder and others evaluate the daughter/son's "getting better" might mean: 1) which goes beyond body image; isolated observation (e.g. seeing are not affected?" There is no weight, choice of friends, deci­gaining or losing weight; 2) 2) regulate self-esteem in ways someone overeat at one meal) simple answer to that question. sions, etc..; 5) the boundaries experiencing unwanted and which are not so bound by the rarely suggests a need to The answer is multi-faceted, of the family are either too rigid perhaps painful feelings and number on the scale; 3) intervene. Often individuals but environment plays an im­(parents control everything and thoughts; 3) having to learn experience and express painful with eating disorders initially portant role in the development demand their daughter/son be alternative methods of reducing emotional states in appropriate deny the problem because of and recovery from an eating dependent on them) or no stress; 4) restructuring ways; 4) become more the guilt and shame they feel. disorder. boundaries exist. relationships with significant assertive; and 5) learn more The individual may need some 
Eating disorders can occur in Individuals often take on the others; 5) finding a less harm­about the origins of their eating time before they will agree to families where an individual's role of the parent and receive ful means of regulating self­disorder and how eating disor­seek help. Recognize that self-esteem and autonomy are little support or acknowledg­esteem; and 6) finding health­ders are perpetuated by our friends and relatives cannot hampered through lack of ap­ment except when they perform ier ways of competing and ob­thin-conscious society. cure the person and you need to propriatP afTection, support and a caretaking rote. taining recognition from others. Many of these therapeutic let the individual take re­rigid expectations. J\ variety of The environment we live in In short, there are many goals are accomplished through sponsibility for his/her recovery. family related factors such as can either enhance recovery or changes which may need to oc­individual and group counseling In summary, we do know that emotional deprivation. obesity, contribute to the growing cur and these changes can be sessions. In addition, family and extended family alcoholism, physical depression number of individuals who are very difficult to accomplish nutritional counseling and dynamics have a significant in­and othPr chronic illnesses, as obsessed with their weight and without the support of a compe­medical supervision are often fluence on creating and main­well as sexual abuse can create appearance. These individuals tent professional. included as part of treatment. taining eating disorders. We an environment where individ­begin to engage in dangerous The Notre Dame survey indi­The process of recovery is know that in order to be of uals often feel unsupported, eating behaviors in the pursuit cated that a large percentage of difficult, emotionally challeng­some assistance to those who neglected and out of control. of thinness which has become the respondents with eating ing and slow. It takes a great experience eating disorders, we 
To date, we know that certain wrongly associated with happi­problems were not receiving deal of courage because the in­need to be sensitive to the ways familial patterns are often asso­ness and emotional adjustment. professional help. Eighty-seven dividual is giving up a coping in which we may contribute to eiated with influencing the de­Every time someone makes a percent of those with a serious style which leaves her/him the perpetuation of "the velopment of eating disorders, joke about fat chicks, lets out a eating disorder and 95 percent feeling vulnerable and alone problem." but there is not a single cause. howl when a woman goes up of those with symptoms of an while developing new coping Successful treatment is avail­The result of the Notre Dame for ice cream in the dining hall eating disorder had not strategies. However, the re­able to those who have eating survey supports this viewpoint. or puts up posters/banners/ received any psychotherapeutic wards are enormous because disorders. So, the choice be­Those respondents who re­signs that demean women by help. the individual experiences a comes ours as to whether we ported serious eating disorders focusing on their appearance or Reasons given for not seeking new freedom when he/she is not want to create and be a part of reported significantly more describe them as being "well help included not being sure hiding in the guilt and shame of an environment which is either problems with food in their built," sends a message that they had a problem, not his/her eating behavior and sensitive to the needs of those family and were more likely to people are only as good as they thinking it was serious enough, does not risk further physical whose self-esteem is regulated have been forced to have sexual look. and being embarrassed to problems which can range from by their weight or be part of an contact against their will than The process of recovery from admit their difficulties with minimal to life threatening. environment that reflects lack those individuals with some an eating disorder depends on a food. Unfortunately, these Friends, roommates, of knowledge, insensitivity and symptoms or no symptoms of an number of factors. The type women are struggling alone boyfriends/girlfriends, siblings encourages eating disorders. eating disorder. severity, and duration of the with the problem when profes­and parents often struggle with 
The risk for a family member disorder, the personality char­sional help is readily available. how they can be helpful when The author wishes to ac­developing an eating disorder is acteristics of the person with While there may be some someone they know has an eat­knowledge psychologists Willis increased wh1-m: 1l the family the disorder and the availability variation in treatment ap­ing disorder. It is important to Bartlett, Ph. D and Marc Mil­places excessive importance on of competent professional assis­proaches (e.g., behavioral or convey your concern in a caring hander, Ph.D. for their contri­appearance and thinness; 2) tance all influence the process insight oriented therapy; work-and non-judgmental way. Be bution to this article. 
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Hi? 60T 7HRf}I,(JN IN 7Hl? HOte ANPHAP Yt?ARSA/JfJW 7D HIS 513NTfflC£, 1?&5PIT& /J&ING A MO/JI3t-PRJ50N&R. TH/3  TH& UN!? FO/QJ1S AT TH/3REAR. \  'Those who do not know how  
6UY'S 8l£N t/V!NG ON/3  
LCWG N/GifT­ 
M/1/?e.  to weep with their whole heart  
..  don't know how to laugh either.'  
"""  

Golda Meir 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 465S6 

----~---~-~----~--------~ 

Viewpoint
Thursday, January 28, 1993 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student disappointed by drama class 
Dear Editor: 
I recently completed a class entitled "Modern Drama," and while the professor who taught this class gave excellent and invigorating lectures, my dis­appointment was so great I feel compelled to address the editor. 
This disappointment started the first day of class upon pe­rusal of the syllabus, for while the class's title appears to be relatively straightforward there was a large disparity between the expected and the actual subject matter. The class's material consisted of twenty­seven plays all written by white males. I'd like to suggest that any class that calls itself "Modern Drama" and doesn't include a single play by a woman or minority is based on an oxymoronic premise. 
For most of recorded history, knowledge of literature written by white males has been con­sidered the only knowledge worth having. Things written by any other group have been ignored, devalued, and pushed into the realm of the unaccept­able, partly because these works were produced from a cultural framework that the intellectuals didn't understand and hence found devoid of meaning, and partly because· the meaning of oppression was all too clear and so was sup­pressed by the dominant cul­ture. 
This ceased to be true in the 1960s which issued in the sec­ond wave of feminism and al­lowed for the writings of women and different ethnic groups to be read and appreci­ated. 
The traditional white male canon began to be restructured according to society's changing awareness. This task of re­structuring the canon, says philosopher Elizabeth Minnich, "is comparable to Copernicus shattering our geo-centricity and the change is as funda­mental, as dangerous, and as exciting." 
Mary Ellen Capeck of the Na­tional Council for Research on Women calls it "one of the most significant revolutions that has taken place in the history of knowledge over the last couple of hundred years." Strangely, this revolution seems to have passed right by many of my classes at this University. 
I am aware, in lodging this complaint, that many of the classes I have taken are survey classes, and as such presuppose the need for exclusions. No class can be a complete and full analysis of modern drama or anything else. 
Further, I do in no way wish to suggest that all of the mem­bers of the traditional canon usually studied be abandoned in favor of a curriculum that in­cludes no white males whatso­ever, or that white males should be ignored as "punishment" for centuries of dominance. 
The crux of my argument is more· modest; I merely would like to point out that of the many classes at this University that make a pretense of making a "representative survey" of literature, history, art, or anything else, the fact that 53 percent of the population is consistently not represented speaks of a gross neglect. It must be ameliorated. 
Professors ·at such a presti­gious University must, I am sure, be aware of the afore­mentioned revolution that has rediscovered and legitimized the work of women and minori­ties. The Gender Studies Con­centration might suggest to a modern drama class the inclu­sion of Susan Glaspell or African American Mary Burrill. 
The challenge goes out to professors to rediscover the lost history of their fields and incorporate it in their class ma­terial. This task is arduous and perhaps underappreciated by the University, but without ac­cepting this challenge profes­sors are failing their responsi­bility to their students and en­gendering a false sense of his­tory. 
Daily Notre Dame influences the mind's of its students in a myriad of subtle ways. It is time for the professors from the "old school" to reassess what kind of influence they are having. Only then can classes like "Modern Drama" hope to live up to their names. 
Beth Ann Fennelly Off-campus 
Jan.25,1993 

'Hillary' headline shows subtle sexism 
Dear Editor: 
I found Tuesday's Observer (Jan. 26, 1993) guilty of subtle sexism. 
A headline called Mrs. Clinton by only her first name (page 5, "Hillary in charge of health care"). The Associated Press text which followed addressed the first lady as "Hillary Rod­ham Clinton" and "Mrs. Clin­ton." The Observer headline editor should have done the same. 
Other news headlines in that issue which mention a person by name use surnames: "Brokaw to speak ... Clinton tells military ... Packwood ... " It was "Brokaw, Clinton," and "Packwood," not "Tom, Bill," or "Bobby P." But Mrs. Clinton got, simply, "Hillary." 
I assume the oversight was unintentional. Nevertheless, it is sexist to speak of a man by his title or surname but speak of a woman -even though we know who this woman is -by only her first name. (The pop star Madonna is an exception, of course.) 
The point is subtle. Sexism usually is. Please be more careful. 
Erik Floan Fischer Graduate Residences 
Jan.26,1993 
Neighborhood Council thanks Grace Hall 
Dear Editor: 
It is with thankful hearts that we publicly acknowledge the generous gift of over $1,500 which members of Grace Hall have contributed to us from their Annual Run. They have fulfilled this project for the past several years and we are most grateful. 
The contribution comes at a time when the need seems to be the greatest and the pocket is emptying at a more rapid rate. 
Thanks, too, to all the stu­dents of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame who give of their time and talents to our school chil­dren in the Neighborhood Help Study Program. We are sure we speak for the children as well as for the Council when we send all involved a big THANK YOU!! 
Arthur J. Quigley, President and Members of the Board of Directors Northeast Neighborhood Council, Inc. 
Jan.23,1993 
Thursday's Verse 
Grandmother 
The pain never subsides in a day or two How will I make it? I'm not sure I'll get through The searing pain inside my heart Overcomes me I feel nothing else, but want To simply feel nothing 
In philosophy we deal with the existence of God At church we discuss testing and punishment 
How can I consider those topics When I can't even deal with My own existence or the end of yours? You were an incredible woman, full of goodness And we should celebrate your life Instead we mourn that you are gone 
But gone where, to a better place? Full of white robed angels, singing praise to God? Or just into the earth, lying in a wooden box Next to your beloved husband 
I only know that you touched my life And I hope someday that I might affect someone The way you affected me 
-Anne M. Janson Siegfried Hall 

Editor's note: Funeral services for Mildred Janson were held this morning In West Covina, California. 
chant to the ancestors . •• (for thurgood marshall) 0124 93 
be still my ancestors and rest for in me your spirit shall be revived 
my ancestors rest and be still your spirit in me shall be revived 
revived in me your spirit shall be so rest my ancestors 
in me shall your spirit be revived so dear sweet ancestors rest 
revive, my ancestors, your spirit in me and rest 
rest my ancestors and know that in me your spirit shall be revived 
be still my restless ancestors for in me* through me* in spite ofme your spirit will be revived 
·karsonya e. wise 
Editor's note: There will be a memorial service for Thurgood Marshall at St. Joseph's Lake behind Columba Hall at noon on Saturday, Jan. 30: Karsonya E. Wise is a graduate student in International Peace Studies and will be participating In a poetry reading at the Snlte 
Museum on Saturday at 2:45p.m. as part of the Snite Day of Women. 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Thursday's Verse 
P.O. BoxQ 
"... "' • .. ~ ~·. • • ·. ~ ' r.;;-··-•.. 


------------~~------------------------~~-­




Accent 
page 10 Thursday, January 28, 1993 

American Edition 
Notre Dame professor enhances classroom lectures with self-edited books 

By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Accent Writer 

What could be more benefidal than a professor who supplements some of his dass lectures with books he has edited himself'? Thomas Schlereth, a Notre Dame Ameriean studies profossor has reeently co-edited a volunHl entitled, "American II cline Life, 1880-1 930," which he eompleted in Dec. 1992. 
This volume, published by the University of Tennessee Press, examines the struetural evolution of the Ameriean home and the way in whieh these transformations affected the behaviors of the people in the changing times surrounding the turn of tlw twentieth century, Schlereth said. 
For example, one seetion of the book describes how "electric eircuits and indoor plumbing along with the expansion of the parlor into the living room, as we TheObserver/SeanFarnan presently refer to it, Notre Dame American Studies professor Thomas Schlereth recently co-edited a volume entitled,'American 
altered American Home Life, 1880-1930,' which he uses in his class. 
domestic life," said Sch~er_eth. . . . . 
His mvolvement m editmg this volume snowballed back in 1988 after Schlereth lectured at a conference on the "Residence of t~e A.mcrican Home" SJ;lonsc~red by MeFaddm-vyard House, a histone house museum m Beaumont, Texas. "When The University of Tennessee Press saw the program, they asked if f would help evolve my lectures into a book," he said. 
From his confer~~ce _lecture on.the emergence of electnc1ty m. the Amencan home sprung an opportumty to ereate a book. According to Schlereth, after the contacts from tho publishing company were made, the rest was smooth sailing. "The process eonsisted of following up with Tennessee Press and then turning the authors' lectures into chapters of a book," he said. 
Years of practice have made Schlereth a pro in compiling and editing books because "American Home Life" stemmed from another volume entitled "Victorian America, "which he edited in 1985 as part of a series for Harper and Row. 
A worthwhile hobby like this one allows Sehlereth to transfer his knowledge of the changing Ameriean eulture to the elassroom. He uses both volumes to enhance his class lectures for Ameriean Studies 250, "American Thought and Culture." The class explores and historically analyzes the transformations in everyday life from 1870-1920, Schlereth said. 
"My !American studies] class explores a spectrum of human experiences common in the everyday life of the working middle-class people living at the turn of the twentieth century," Schlon")th added. 
Perhaps on a roll or maybe just doing what he considers an enjoyable task which eomplements his teaehing at ND. Sehlereth already has plans undorway for yet another new book. "I will most likely call it, 'The High Art of Common Life,"' he shared, "beeause it will analyze paintings of everyday experiences and discuss understanding Ameriean culture through paintings." 
"f am interested in exploring the reasons why artists are interested in depieting men and women in shops and the workplace during the 19th and 20th century," he said. 
Schlereth is certainly keeping himself occupied these days, but "I am doing what I enjoy doing," he added. 




Art for artists' sake 
Art professors display work at 

Faculty Art Show 
By CHRIS HATTY 
Accent Writer 
Imagine a work of art that allows its viewer to more than simply look at it. Imagine a creation that can be Pxperienced with the full range of the human senses. The Annual Faculty Art Show, starting at the end of this week, will heighten the senses and bring art to life. 
The Environmental Wall, created by William Gorlaski and Ann Marie Conrado, is a featured piece. This work consists of eight thematic tiles that are meant to represent functional aspects of nature. These aspects are light, heat, coolness, odor, humidity, purification, and sound. 
The show features the recent works of various faculty members. Some of the works exhibited in the show will be, stereo photography by Dick Stevens, work in fabric by Barbara Peterson, and digital prints created by John Sherman. 
The show will also feature the work of some of the newer Sally Brogden has an exhibit featuring her work with clay, and the cold-rolled steel and bronze sculpture of Jeffery Adams will also be on display. 

In addition to these newcomers, the Faculty Art Show will feature the work of two professors who have returned from leaves of absence. An exhibit in charcoal by James Flanigan, C.S.C. will be displayed and four oil paintings on canvas by Douglas Kinsey will be shown as well. Other faculty artists whose work will be shown inelude Catherine Poole, Kevin Fermi, Richard Gray, Austin Collins, Jean A. Dibble, and Paul Down. 
According to Lucille Brodie, staff executive at the Snite, the Faculty Art Show is a tradition that began 26 years ago. William Kremer, chairman of the Art Department, states that, "the faculty exhibition will be the focal point for a departmental symposium that will show individual artists, art historians, and designers an opportunity to talk about their current work and special interests." 
in various mediums sueh as drawing, painting, design, printmaking, sculpture, photography, and fiber. The art show allows "the Notre Dame art students and eommunity an opportunity to view the latest work of Notre Dame faculty artists and designers." states Kremer. 
The annual shows, Kremer says, allow the faculty to see the current work of their colleagues. In addition, they provide a chance for long-time aficionados of the Snite Gallery to see how the talent of Notre Dame's faculty is eurrently manifesting itsnlf. 
The Faeulty Art Show will be on display from January 31 to April 4 in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries, West. While classes are in session, the Snite Museum is open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday; Sunday from 1 p.m. until 4 p.m.; and Thursday from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission is free, and the public is encouraged to see, as Brodie says, "the range, diversity, and vitality of faculty artists' 

faculty in the art department. The show will display works ereativity."
Members of Notre Dame's Department of Art, Art History, and Design 

Accent

Thursday, January 27, 1993 page11 
Ayear in revue 
Keenan Revue offers ahumorous look at the past year's events 
By MATT FOLEY 
Accent Writer 
It's late January on the Notre Dame campus, and that brings about the yearly sighting of the Keenan Revue. So put away your books, quit complaining about South Bend weather, and catch the spirit by seeing the show. 
If you are in the mood to laugh and laugh heartily (not to mPntion being lucky enough to get trckets), head on over to Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium and enjoy. 
Since this is a review of the Revue, here are some highlights of the show. The performance kicks off with an upbeat Elvis rendition and never slows down. Before the close of the first half, the Keenan players satirize everything from the unbelievable Dining Hall Security to our own Infirmary. 
In one scene. two announcers call a game between the stars of the Old and New Testament. One of the most memorable lines from this skit is: "Mary nails Jesus on a crossing pattern." 
For the sake of fairness to the masses of the unfortunate who will miss this piece of campus entertainment, a description of one skit will be denoted. 
We all remember the movie shot on campus last semester . -you know. the one with the security guards that would 




Above standards 
Lewis Hall Players provide laughs in 'Eastern Standard' 
The Observer/Sean Farnan Cast of the Keenan Review rehearse for their performances January 28, 29, and 30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saint Mary's College campus. 
make old East German border inspiration and the human no for an answer. After an guards look like really nice spirit, but the version the initiai meeting with Lou where guys. Well, the Revue seeks to Revue offers us highlights a Rudy (the Revue changes it to poke fun at the entire reason basic failure to grasp the Fruity) gets himself on the for our inconvenience -"Rudy." obvious, as well as the team, the actors proceed to The real story may be about incredible resistance to taking practice football. Fruity's 

By MATT CARBONE 
Accent Writer 
What do you say to someone who has just told you that "''m going to be dead soon?" 
This is but one of the problems facing the characters in "Eastern Standard," the most recent production by the Lewis Hall Players. 
The speaker of the line above is Peter Kidde (Gregg Winkiel), who is informing his sister Phoebe (Stephenie Calmeyn) that he is dying of AIDS. which he has contracted through promiscuous homosexual sex. 
Phoebe has problems of her own, torn between her sleazy, manipulative ex-boyfriend and Stephen Wheeler (Scott Haugh), the insecure, dissatisfied architect whom she also loves. Then there is Stephen's artist friend Drew Paley (Charles Clarke). who is hopelessly in love with Peter. 
All of these troubled characters meet when they are verbally assaulted by a homeless woman, May Logan (Sonia Miller), in the restaurant where they are dining. 
For the next two hours we see these characters, along 
with Ellen (Alison McGarry), the waitress in the restaurant, come together as they attempt to resolve their problems. 
"Eastern Standard" is a contemporary comedy by Richard Greenberg, first performed on Broadway in 1988. It is the third play performed.by the Lewis Hall Players in as many years. 
As with the Players' two previous productions, all proceeds from "Eastern Standard" will go to charity. This year, the Players have chosen to give the money to an AIDS awareness and education project sponsored by the Saint Joseph County Health Center. 
Valerie Soledad, the Lewis Hall sophomore producer of "Eastern Standard," explains why the Players chose this charity. She states, "The play covers a lot of contemporary issues, notably AIDS ...we thought we'd stick with the themes of the play." 
Rehearsals for the play began after the October break. Until the Christmas break, the Players practiced five days a week for two hours a day. After break, the schedule became even more intense, with rehearsals seven days a week for three hours a day. 
The hard work has paid off. "Eastern Standard" is an intelligent, engaging play which will also make you laugh. Much of this laughter will come after Clarke delivers his lines; making the sarcastic, flippant Drew shine within the solid, talented cast. You will find yourself waiting for his withering remarks whenever another character finishes speaking. 
Much of the entertainment comes from the play itself. Wit flows from many of the lines. For instance, in describing how conservative his mother is, Peter says that there "isn't a revolution in history that wouldn't have failed to execute her." Or when Drew describes the buttoned-down, Wall Street financier Phoebe to Stephen, he says, "She looks like she breakfasts on ticker tape." 
So if you would like to see a play that is intelligent, witty, and filled with good acting, "Eastern Standard" is for you. It begins tonight at Washington Hall and will continue through Sunday, January 31. All times are at 8:10 p.m., except for Sunday, which shows at 3:10 p.m. 

pathetic skills make themselves apparent when tested against real football players, but he survives. 
Moving on to the famous game scene which took place during halftime of the Boston College game, Keenan sets the stage with appropriate slow motion and music similar to that of "Chariots of Fire." Fruity finally gets sent in when Lou determines that no serious damage can occur, and then proceeds to wave to his mother and accidentally run into the quarterback. 
This is just one example of the many entertaining and amusing skits, but the whole performance is just packed with outstanding humor. Of particular mention are: the Battle of the Ross Twins, some incredible choreography in a parody of the SYR situation, a few potshots at the administration and the Irish Guard, as well as Dr. Jack Kevorkian in the Infirmary and a Laundry scene. 
Another memorable performance took place in the second act. Here, a lone piano player appears to entertain the audience with a montage of Billy Joel hits, changing the words to satirize a member of the administration. This act alone is worth the trip over to Saint Mary's to get a glimpse of the Keenan Revue. Don't miss it. 
The Keenan Revue will be held Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights at 7 p.m. 
-
-

s ax • 

The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1993
page 12

! 11' 
' 

Van Excel exits dog house, helps No. 6 Cincinatti past Xavier, 87-67 
CINCINNATI (AP) -All Nick Van Exel could do for the first 7 1/2 minutes Wednesday night was wring a towel in his hands and squirm in his chair. 
Chastened by his second dis­ciplinary benching this month, Van Exel made up for lost time. He scored 15 points and pol­ished off a decisive first-half run that helped No. 6 Cineinnati beat Xavier 78-67. 

Coach Bob Huggins kept Van Exel, the Bearcats' leading scorer and playmaker, on the bench for reasons neither would divulge. Huggins has been unhappy with Van Exel's effort at times. 
Van· Exel didn't lik-e his courtside seat. 
"I was a little nervous sitting on the bench," he said. "I was nervous when I got in. Then I got a feel for the game." 
Van Exel hit a pair of 3-point­ers, including a 30-footer at the first-half buzzer, to complete a 16-2 run that put Cincinnati (14-1) in line for its 11th straight win. 
It was a familiar script for Xavier (12-3), which has lost its last three against its crosstown rival. The Musketeers lack UC's bench strength, and simply wear down as the game wears on. 

Van Exel was fresh when UC started to pull away -he'd played less than 10 minutes because of his second benching in two weeks. Huggins also sat Van Exel down for much of a nine-point victory over Cleve­land State on Jan. 13 because of poor effort. 
Van Exel provided UC's best moments of the first half, fin­ishing the run that put the Bearcats ahead to stay 38-31 at the half. 
"Van Exel has to be one of the best guards in the country," Xavier coach Pete Gillen said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day classlfieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-­ NOTICES TYPING 287-4082 LEARN TO CLOG OR C & W DANCE. BEGINNER'S VIDEOS. FOR FREE CATALOG WRITE: FANCY FEET DANCE & BAND WEAR, P.O. BOX 569-ND, CLINTON, MS 39060. Used Texts Cheap Pandora's in the Bookmobile 12-4 daily 233­2342 NO Ave & Howard RAPID WORDPROCESSING Call Lori at 271 -0754 50,000,000 'SENIORS' CONTESTANTS NEEDED FOR THE SR. DATING GAME Don't be lazy, just be crazy I Pick up applications in the Sr. Class Office COME SEE IRISH ACCENT NOTRE DAME'S OWN COMEDY & IMPROV TROUPE This Thursday the 28th in the La Fortune Ballroom. The LAUGHTER begins at 9:00 MISSING OUT ON THE KEENAN REVUE? THEN COME SEE THE LEWIS HALL PLAY"EASTERN STANDARD" IN WASHINGTON HALL JAN. 28, 29,30@ 8:10PM OR JAN. 31 @2:10PM TIX AT LAF. BOX OFFICE, STUDENTS 3$ 'SENIORS'SENIOAS' PRE-SUPERBOWL PARTY Sat. Jan. 30 from 9pm-2am at Senior Baril Great specials! Free Domino's pizza, cheap nachos, and more!! ILOST & FOUND I LOST: PR. BLACK SKI MITIENS LOST FRI AT THE SNITE (I THINK). IF FOUND CALL JENI X4209. Found: Between Cavanaugh and Zahm this weekend, a gold bracelet. Call 634­1530 to describe. Ask for Steve. Lost: Ladies' Gold Watch before Finals. All gold. Scratch in top right corner. Great Sentimental Value. Please Call Amy x4530.  Lost: Silver cross on chain Lost in or near JACC. Reward offered. Call Scott x4-1583 Blue/green wool coat lost at Lewis party. Please call 2601 No questions asked. L..,___W_AN_T_E_D___.II Bridget's is now taking apps. Must be 21 and able to work now thru next school year. Apply in person at 8p.m. on Wed, Thurs. or Fri. Books in Philosophy, world's largest mail-order book catalogue, needs part-time (1 0-15 hours weekly) help from an industrious, intelligent, computer literate, politically incorrect, jargon­free, non-deconstruction-disabled grad or advanced undergrad. We sell books and books-on-disk worldwide and scan, edit, typeset, and publish scholarly books. Good (not great) pay, no benefits, flexible hours, frenetic pace, messy but enjoyable milieu. no ambience. Learn the publishing business from the bottom down. 288-4950. Adoption-Active. Young couple wants to adopt your bundle of joy. Love and Laughter guaranteed. Call Peggy 1-800-682-8628. Anyone going any distance south on 31 any1ime on Friday? PLEASE call Dan at 4-4339. I will pay for gas! CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn $2000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, Summer and Career employment available. No experience necessary. For employment program call 1-206-634-0468 ext.C5584 DRUMMER needed to play all kinds of music. Call Gene 4-3273 Student Painters is interested in hiring highly motivated students to manage their own bus. we offer management training, credit backing, and a full support staff earning pot. $8,000. join the most successful painting co. in Indiana call 1-800-543-3792 ask for Tom Smith. @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@ I need a ride to MIAMI(OH.) UNIVERSITY any weekend Will help pay for gas Call BRIAN 4-2081 @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. For Rent Notre Dame Apts. -Newly Remodeled 2Br Apts -Great Rental Rates Start at $400/mth. Call 232-8256 I FOR SALE 1 00 Watt stereo with receiver and amplifier. 15" speakers,excellent sound, perfect condition. call 271­1443 1983 Ford Escort for sale. Great condition. Call 291-6681. Packs of 50 dd 3.5 in. diskets $10 call mike 1749 SNES -F Fan! II GB-SMario II x1696 I TICKETS WANTED: Two ND vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call 284-3814 WANTED: Two NO vs. Duke basketball tickets. Please call 284-3814 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixsl GA's or Studentl Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixsl GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixsl GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 I need DUKE and KENTUCKY tixs! GA's or Student! Call Chris X-1235 Help! I need ND!Ken. tix. call Emily x5245 I need 2-4 Kent. tix X4890 WANTED 2 GA's for the DUKE and/or Kentucky games! $$$$$ Please call Cheryl 4-4813. Who's your basketball coach?! Who's your basketball coach?! Hello sports fans. Skip needs 3 basketball tix to the Kentucky WildCATastrophe due to take place in the month de amor. Be a pal, samaritan, or whatever and sell him the tickets or one of his Italian relatives might pay you a visit. Then the time for haggling will be over. Call Skip at x2052 and leave a message if he ain't around. I need DUKE & KENTUCKY tix!GA's or Student! Call Chris x1235.  I need 4 Marquette tix (students or GAs). The game is WED. Feb. 17. Call Rebecca at x4121. DESPERATELY NEED 1 Duke Tik Stu or GA Call Leigh x2912 We have 4 Thursday Keenan Revue tickets that we'd like to trade for Fri. or Sat. Call Mike x4258 or Molly 233-4925 I need one Kentucky ticket. Student or GA. Call Brian at 1194. DESPERATELY SEEKING 1, 2, or 3 ND vs. DUKE GA tickets. PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!!!! Call ALISA @3196. Help! Need 4 KY GA's$$ 1341 PERSONAL Summer jobs and internships­University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, is interviewing goal oriented students ·for a challenging, full-time summer position. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations. Average earnings $3,900. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, NC. College credit may be available. Interviews on campus February 3rd. Information and interview sign-up available today at CP &P Services -Hesburgh Library or call 1-800-7 43-5556. '"""SUPER SUNDAY"'"" at SUBWAY Let us serve your game party. Buy two footlongs, Get third FREE! 6 ft. party subs as low as $37.95! SA 23 & Ironwood 277-7744 Spring Break! Day1ona Beach! Ocean Front Hotels: Quad Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: VIP DiscounVID card ... Round trip charter bus from $199.50 per person!!! Room only available from $109.50 per person. Limited Availability!!! 1-800-881-BEACH. PLAN AHEAD!! STAYING here for the SUMMER? Sub-lease our apartment at CASTLE POINT­CALL TODAY x4673 THIS WEEK ONLY. MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE CUT AND STYLE. CALL COSIMOS FOR DETAILS 277-1875.  PANAMA CITY BEACH!!! 7 NIGHTS AT BEACH FRONT HOTEL. STARTING AT $109. CALL JAMES @289-2683 TAKE A BREAK! Pray, reflect, talk, do service with the elderly, day care kids, the homeless and more! Come find out about GILA, a bunch of friends striving to live the Gospel in prayer, service, and community. First meeting this semester: Thu., Jan. 28, 7:00 pm at the CSC. See you there! Spring Break! Day1ona Beach! Ocean Front Hotels: Quad Occupancy: Seven Full Nights: Vip DiscounUID card ... Round trip Charter Bus from $199.50 per person! Room Only available from $109.50 per person. Limited Availability! 1-800-881-beach. COLLEEN, What DO you put in your garden? Watch it grow? I hear they're offering a sex ed class over at the Catholic grammar school next week! CANCUN!!!I Male roommate(s) needed to complete Spring Break package. Call 4-1738 for details. The BIG ·o· is back! Super Bowl Prediction: COWBOYS27 bills 10 MVP Troy Aikman Let's go 'Pokes! SUPER BILLS I need riders going to Buffalo to watch the Bills crush the Cowboys and enjoy the frenzy afterward Leave Friday morning return Monday night Dave x3272 Adoption: Doctor and teacher will make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. (212)369-2597. SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN FROM $469 FLORIDA FROM $149! ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREEl HURRAY, LIMITED SPACE. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710. '"AWESOME SPRING BREAKS!  Sale I Sale I Sale! T-shirts, art posters, scarves, mugs, books, baskets, pots and morel Museum Shop, Fri-Sun. Snitel Snitel Snitel Roses are red Daises are white Valentine, did you buy My gift at the Snite? Museum Shop Sale, Fri-Sun Surprise your Mom Send something nice back to her. Snite Museum Shop Sale January 29-31 10-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun Help combat visual illiteracy! Convince your friends that you are cultured I Snite Museum Shop Sale Jan. 29-31 Don't just stand there, BUY SOMETHING I Snite Museum Shop Sale Jan. 29-31 10-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun Criticize your professors! Attend the opening reception of The Art Department Faculty Show and The Snite Museum Shop Sale Sunday, Jan. 31, 2-4. free refreshments Dance! Poetry! Musicl Celebrate the Day of Women at the Snite Museum Sat. Jan. 30, 10-5 Thank you St. Jude Mary and Holy Spirit for many favors granted LOOK!-SPRING BREAK TIX 4 sale. To W. Palm Beach, FL Nov 5-14. Call KRIS x4885 Aquinas was PRO-CHOICE The Alumni are coming I The Alumni are coming! Welcome them on the quad. Say hello, hi, howdy Come to Bridget's tonight to see Bughaus(Go Paul) & celebrate with everyones favorite LUSH! Happy Birthday Lorreil Love, Potter LORREI­GET READY FOR TONIGHT. YOU CAN NOT ESCAPE­I WILL SEE TO IT PERSONALLY.  
LOST: N.D. VARSITY LEITERMAN'S JACKET AND PLAID SCARF-PLEASE RETURN, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. CALL JIM AT x1066  FOR RENT 2br. Apts 4 blocks from ND $350 a month  help i need 1 duke ticket call julie x3736 I NEED KENTUCKY TICKETS. Call Kelly at x4121.  SMC & ND Summer Programs­London & Rome-Meeting Feb. 15,6:30 Carroll Hall (SMC). Student, faculty, etc. Free pizza. For info call Prof. A.A. Black 284-4460(office). 272-3726(home).  BAHAMAS CRUISE INCLUDES 10 MEALS $279, PANAMA CITY WITH KITCHEN $119, KEY WEST $249, DAYTONA (KITCHENS) $149, CANCUN FROM CHICAGO $459, JAMAICA $47911-800-678-6386.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! love, me Jeffsternis-1 am the ACCT 232 God I Your hope to be #1 is a pipe dream. Debit this, baby. This is my house!-Mel  

Found Wed. 20 Jan. -set of two Chrysler keys on ring. Nothing else on keyring. To claim call Kirsten at 4185. 
LOST: Set of keys (and 2 bike keys) on Cubs and Notre Dame keyrings. Call Brendan al 277·8178 if found. 
LOST: Green wind breaker at Campus View on Saturday, Jan 22. It has yellow trim and my name sewn in it. Please call 634-3447 if you have it. 

Newly Remodeled 232-8256 
Music student seeks roommate to share 2 bedroom. pleasant apartment, low rent, 288-8933 
FURNISHED ROOM, $170 mo. Walk to campus. 287-2159. 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE $490 MONTH + $300 DEP. SECURITY SYSTEM 232-3616 I NEED 2 DUKE TKTS MARY X2862 
NEED 4 TICKETS TO THE DUKE/N.D. GAME. CALL JOHN AT 232-2944. 
I need 4 GAs and/or 2 student tix for Kentucky -Brian x1 069 
I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR KENTUCKY GAME! CALL MEG -X3884 
I need one Kentucky ticket. Student or GA. Call Brian at 1194. 

Florida SPRING BREAK 7 nights Beachfront $139-159. RESERVE rooms NOW. Call CMI 1-800-423­5264. 
Nappy, Your HAIRY body is making me bust at the seams. 
Please pour it on SOON!!! Love, CLOG 
Snits Museum Shop Sale January 29-31 10-4 Fri-Sat, 1-4 Sun 
SPRING BREAK "93" with COLL~GE TOURS 
CANCUN $459 Air, Hotel, Parties, Nightly Entertainment! Interested in traveling for free? Become a College Tours Representative. For more information & reservations call: LOUIE 1-800-395-4896. 
Spring Break, Sailing Bahamas on Luxury Yachts Seven day Island Adventure. All Inclusive with Cabin & Meals, $498 Each, Groups of 6. 1 /800-999-SAI L(7245) 
Please Recycle Paper When Finished 



----'"'"' .--IT 

TRANSACTIONS college basketbal poll fared Wednesday:
NBA STANDINGS 
t. Kansas (18-2) did not play. Next: vs. Rollins, Saturday.
EASTERN CONFERENCE YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Signed Deli Demps,
BASEBALL 2. Indiana (t8-2) beat Minnesota 6t-57. Next: atAtlantic Dlvlalon guard.
American Laagua Northwestern, Salurday. 
FOOTBALL

w L Pet GB LtO Streak Home Away Conf CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms wtth 3. North Carolina (t6-1) VI. No. t9 Florida State. 
National Football Laague
N-York 25 .64t
14 6-4 Won4 17-3 8-11 t8-8 Paul Sorrento, first baseman, on a three-year Next: at Wake Forest, Saturday. 
DENVER BRONCOS-Promoted CharlieN-Jersey 24 17 .565 2 7-3 Won2 13-8 tt-9 15-t2 contract. 4. Kentucky (14-1) did not play. Next: va. Florida,
Waters, secondary coach, to defensive coordinator. 
Orlando 18 t7 .514 
5 5-5 Won2 t2-9 6-8 t3-12 KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terma with Saturday.
NEW YORK GIANTS-Named Mike NolanBoston 21 20 .512 
5 7-3 Lostt t2-6 8-t4 17-t4 Huble Brooks, outfielder; Frank DIPino, pttcher, 5. Michigan (t6-2) did not play. Next: at No. 11
defensive coordinator. 
Philadelphia 16 23 .4t0 
9 6-5 Lost2 8-t2 8-tt t3-t7 and Mike Knapp, catcher, on minor-league Iowa, Sunday. 
NEW YORK JETS-Announced that Mo Forte,Miami 12 .3t6
26 121/2 3-7 Loatt 8-9 4-17 7-t7 contracta. running backs coach, has resigned tor personal 6. Cincinnati (14-1) beat Xavier, Ohio 78-67.
Washington 12 
27 .308 13 3-7 Wont 9-t2 3-15 6-20 National Laagua Next: VI. DePaul, Saturday.
reasons.

Cantral Dlvlalon ATLANTA BRAVES-Named Paul Runge 7. Duke (14-3) did not play. Next: at Maryland,
HOCKEYChicago 28 13 .683 

6-4 Wont t5-6 t3-7 20-9 manager ol Idaho Falls ol the Pioneer League. Saturday.
National Hockey LeagueCleveland 24 17 .565 
4 6-4 Loat2 17-5 7-t2 14-9 COLORADO ROCKIES-Agreed to terms wtth 8. Arizona (tt-2) did not play. Next: at Oregon,
VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Asslgned MikeCharlotte 19 19 .500 
7112 4-6 Wont 9-9 t0-10 11-t3 Ryan Hawblhzel, Marcus Moore, Armando Thursday.
Indiana 20 21 .486 8 Fountain, goalie, to the Canadian OlyfT1>IC team.
6-4 Won2 11-9 9-t2 t4-17 Reynoso and Steve Reed, phchers; Brad Ausmus 9. Seton Hall (15-4) Iosito No. 2t Georgetown
Atlanta 19 21 .475 8112 Promoted Jason Fitzsimmons, goalie, from
6-4 Lost I tO-tt 9-tO t3-t6 and J.Owena, catchers, and Eric Young, Infielder, 73-82. Next: at Syracuse, Sunday. 
Detroh 18 22 .450 9tl2 Columbus of the East Coast Hockey League to
2-8 Wont t2-7 6-t5 t5-1t on one-year contracts. tO. UNLV (11-t) did not play. Next: at Nevada.
Milwaukee 16 23 .4tO Hamikon ollhe American Hockey League. 
t1 2-6 Wont t0-t1 6-t2 11-t2 FLORIDA MARLINS-Signed Joe Klink, pttcher, Thursday.
COLLEGEWESTERN CONFERENCE to a minor league contrac;t and Invited him to spring tt. Iowa (t2-3) did not play. Next: at Michigan

Mldweat Dlvlalon MID-EASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE­
training. State, Thursday. 
Announced that the Jan. It men's basketball
w L Pet GB Lto Straak Home Away Conf SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Announced the 12. Vanderbl~ (15-3) beat Tennessee 82-65.
Utah 26 t3 .667 game between Morgan St. and North carolina
6-4 Wont t5-5 tt-8 t4-9 retirements of Arthur Schulze, vice president of Next: at Auburn, Saturday. 
San Antonio 24 A& T, suspended because of a brawl among the
t3 .649 9-11 Won9 t5-4 9-9 t5-9 ticket operations, and Florence Myers, t3. Phlsburgh (t3-3) lost to Syracuse 95-79.

Houston 22 players, will not be resumed, making Morgan State
18 .550 4112 8-2 L0612 13-6 9-t2 14-11 . administrative assistant. Announced that Duffy Next: VI. VIllanova at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena.

Denver t3 the winner, 35-3t. 
25 .342 12 tl2 6-4 Won3 lt-7 2-t8 9-t8 Jennings, vice president of public relations; Wednesday.
Minnesota 7 BROWN-Named Laurie Ge'rominl women's
28 .200 t7 1-9 Lost4 4-t5 3-t3 4-t8 Michael Shapiro, general counsel; Bob Hartzell, t4. Purdue (tt-3) did not play. Next: at
Danas 3 .06t assistant lacrosse coach. 
34 22 t-9 Loat4 3-t7 0-17 t-24 government attalrs and broadcast coordinator; Northwestern, Thursday. 
Pacific Dlvlalon DUQUESNE-Announced Mark Gilbert, forward, 
Jeannie Hurley, controller, and Mark Ray, director 15. Virginia ( 12-3) loa I to Wake Forest 75-73.
Phoenix 28 8 .778 has laH the basketball team for hea~h reasons.
7-3 Won3 t3-t t5-7 t7-5 of publications, have left the organization. Next: VI. VIrginia Tech at Richmond, Saturday. 
Portland 26 tt .718 IDAHO STATE-Named Alice LaTourrene
1tl2 8-2 Won& t8-4 t0-7 t8-8 Reassigned Dave Craig, director of communtty 16. Arkansas (t2-4) lost to Mlsalulppl State 80­
Seattle 27 tt .7tt women's volleyball coach.
2 7-3 Lostt t8-t 9-tO 20-7 services, to program coordinator lor communtty 76, OT. Next: VI. Georgia, Saturday. 
LA Clippers 20 t9 MONMOUTH-Named Kathleen Kropka and
.5t3 9112 4-6 Wont t2-7 8-t2 t0-t2 development and executive director of the Giants 17. Utah (t4-2) did not play. Next: at Wyoming,
LA L.akers 20 Shelley Mnchell men's and women's assistant
t9 .513 9112 4-6 Lost I 10-9 10-tO t4-13 Fund. Named Jan Hutchins director of communhy Thursday.
Golden State t9 track coaches. 
21 .475 t1 3-7 Loat2 9-8 10-13 13-tO development; Jack Balr stall counsel, and Larry 18. Georgia Tech (tt-4) beat North Carolina
Sacramento t5 MORNINGSIDE-Named Greg Lees football
24 .365 t4 112 3-7 Lost2 11-9 4-t5 t0-t3 Dodd controller. State 85-74. Next: at No. 19 Florida State, Sunday. 
Tuesday's Games coach.
BASKETBALL t9. Florida State (13-5) at No. 3 North Carolina
NORTH DAKOTA-Announced the resignation
N-York 96, Phliadephla 90 National B..katball Aaaoclatlon Next va. No. t8 Georgia Tech, Sunday. 
of Lisa Kissee, women's volleyball coach, ellectlve
N-Jersey 106, LA Lakers 91 NBA-flned Manute Sol, Philadelphia 76ers 20. Oklahoma (13-5) beat Florida A&M 146-65.
June 30.

Washington t04, Miami 102, OT center, $3,500 for throwing a punch in a game on Next: VI. Colorado, Saturday.
Orlando 120, Atlanta 106 ST. JOHN'S-Promoted Dennis Myron, ticket

Jan. 26. 21. Georgetown (12-3) beat No.9 Seton Hall 73­
manager, to assistant athletic director-ticketMilwaukee 100, Houston 86 Continental Baaketball Aaeoclatlon 62. Next: at Boston College, Saturday. 
Chicago t23, Dallas 86 manager.
GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Traded Tony Harris, 22. Connecticut (9-5) did not play. Next: vs. St. 
Lhah tt3, Cleveland 96 SETON HALL-Announced the resignation of
guard, to the Oklahoma Ctty Cavalry for a 1993 John's at Madison Square Garden, Saturday. 
Portland t43, Golden State t33 Scott Wlodychak, men's tennis coach. 
first-round draH pick and future considerations. 23. Tulane (14-3) did not play. Next: vs.
Wednesday's Games TEXAS-Reinstated Terrence Rencher, guard, to
LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Sean Poole, Southern Mississippi, Saturday. 
Late Games Not lnduded forward. Traded Kevin Williams, guard, to the the basketball team. 24. Marquette (t4-2) did not play. Next: at St. Oklahoma Ctty Cavalry for Tony Harris, guard. Loui6, Saturday. 
Indiana 127, PhBadelphla 125, OT VALDOSTA STATE-Announced that Briny Charlotte 117, Sacramento 107 Baird, goKer, has tranafernad from Georgia Tech. 
Placed Derrick Gervln, forward, on the lnjunad list. 25. Houston (11-3) did not play. Next at Detroh t 03, Boston 94 Southern Methodist Saturday 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
The Northeast Neighborhood Revisited 
Over the last year and a half, this space has been used, among other things, to call for the leprechaun logo to put down his fighting fists, to challenge off campus students to sit down together more often for meals, and to proclaim the stupidity of getting your best friend totally wasted on his or her twenty,first birthday. Evidence would seem to indicate that none of these most excellent suggestions has yet had a very big impact on the standard operating procedures around here. 
A September '91 column, titled "Our Lady of Sorrows", imagined that the Blessed Mother up on the Dome was saddened as she looked down Notre Dame Avenue and saw the apparent deterioration of the Northeast neighborhood. At the time, violence seemed to be escalating in the area, students were breaking leases to move away from the danger, and the Notre Dame Apartments had taken on a particularly unsavory reputation. Long time residents felt themselves under siege and the reputation of the neighborhood was in jeopardy. 
As it turned out, the Blessed Mother was not the only one from the Administration Building who was concerned about the situation. The Officers of the University were searching for a way to respond to the changing environment. Representatives from the offices of Community Relations, Business Affairs, Security, and the Center for Social Concerns met and began struggling with the complicated issues. A variety of meetings were held with representatives from the Northeast Neighborhood Association and with local residents, and with the mayor's office, the police, and other concerned parties. 
For years the main complaints of the neighbors in the area had concerned the boorish behavior of drunken students, with their loud parties and windblown plastic beer cups. Now the concerns were drive,by shootings and plummeting property values. The University was properly anxious to be involved in the concerns of its neighbors and at the same time wanted to protect the quality of its own front door. 
Fordham, Marquette, Yale , the list of fine private universities surrounded by ravaged neighborhoods is a long one. Notre Dame was not interested in joining the list. 
From all the meetings and all the consultations, a strategy evolved and decisions were. made. Notre Dame, the City of South Bend, Neighborhood Housing Services, and the St. Joseph Medical Center combined to hire an outside consultant to make recommendations and engage in the process of community organizing throughout the neighborhood. Large numbers of local residents, including Notre Dame off campus students, were gathered at Perley School on Eddy Street to voice their concerns and begin to work together towards solutions. That process goes on. 
Notre Dame put a good amount of money behind a local investor, and the Notre Dame Apartments and the adjoining parcels of land between South Bend Avenue, Notre Dame Avenue, and Corby Street were purchased. In the last months the Apartments have been renovated, new sidewalks and landscaping have been added, and the triangle is being prepared as a sight for local governmental services. Advertisements and articles are appearing in The Observer these days, trying to induce Notre Dame students to return to the area. Security has seemed to improve, and the police are supposed to be more present. 
I hope this initiative succeeds. There are so many benefits for everyone involved if this cooperation continues. The relationship of 'town and gown' is sometimes difficult, but in this case, it has a chance to really bring blessings to all concerned. Thanks you's are in order for all those who have worked so hard to bring us this far. 
If things can get back to where they were· in the more peaceful days of some years ago, and students return to share in the life of the Notre Dame Avenue neighborhood, eventually there might even be enough good will left over to figure out what to do about the windblown plastic beer cups. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. January 30 5:00p.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Sun. January 31 10:00 a.m.. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FoR THIS COMING SUNDAY 1ST READING Zephaniah 2,3; 3, 12~ 13 2ND READING 1 Corinthians 1, 26~ 31 GosPEL Matthew 5, 1~12 
-

--
-
.. 

page 14 The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1993 
Woman says she was offfered Rose still a gamblin' man? 
MIAMI (AP) -Pete Rose says he hasn't resumed

money for silence in Tyson case gambling. He doesn't say he's 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A former beauty pageant contes­tant whom Mike Tyson was convicted of raping denied Wednesday that she sought to profit from the case, saying she had ample opportunity to ac­cept money for her silence. 
"The fact is they offered me the money to drop the charges," Desiree Washington said in a television interview. 
"If I was after money all along, I could have taken the money when the ministers came, took me from my from my (exam) finals and everything and offered me all that money," she said. A Baptist minister has been accused of perjuring himself when he denied offering Washington and her family $1 million. 
Tyson, a former heavyweight boxing champion, was con­victed a year ago of raping the Coventry, H.l., woman in July 1991. At the time, Washington was a participant in the Miss Black America Pageant in Indi­anapolis. Tyson was sentenced to six years in the Indiana Youth Center. 
An appeal of his case goes before the Indiana Court of Ap­peals on Feb. 15. 
"It is noteworthy that she has now elected to give a television interview in Indianapolis where the appeal is pending," Tyson's Boston-based attorney, Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz, said in response to the interview.

-Dershowitz has criticized Washington for allegedly with­holding the fact that she had hired an attorney to negotiate rights to her story, and has ac­cused her of trying to profit from the case. Some members of Tyson's jury would have voted to acquit him had they known Washing­ton was shopping her story 
SCOTTSDALE. Ariz. (AP) ­Having beaten alcohol through consistent denial, John Daly wants to make consistency a hallmark of his game. 
"I hope I'll get more consis­tent. I'm sure I should," the 26­year-old golfer said Tuesday. "I guess if you work hard at something, you're going to get it right," 
Daly will make what he calls "my comeback" here Thursday in the Phoenix Open, getting a late start after 3 1/2 weeks in an alcohol-rehabilitation clinic. 
The tour's longest hitter for two straight years, Daly has been accused of sacrificing ac­curacy for the excitement of crushing the ball. For example, while finishing first in driving distance last year (283.4 yards), he was 162nd in fairway accuracy and 77th in hitting greens in regulation. 
However, Daly said he be­lieves his victory in the B.C. Open last fall shows that his short game has progressed. 
"There were a lot of tourna­ments where I'd just go in and not even practice, just go out and tee it up, and sometimes I'd do well and sometimes I wouldn't, so I'm really more focused on somewhat of a 
-
schedule to go by and just work on my game a lot more than last year," Daly said. 
Daly won the tournament's Long Drive Contest with a 315­yard blast. His first drive in the two-ball event was 311 yards. 
''I'm hitting the driver real well," he said. "My long irons aren't where I'd like them to be, and of course you always lose 
,, ~ 

i 
quit, either. 
But he says he's concerned with the impression people get, and he says it's unfair to give the impression he's hanging around the tracks gambling at the same time he's seeking reinstatement to baseball. 
"I do no illegal gambling." Rose said Wednesday in a telephone interview from his home in Boca Raton. Fla. "I'd be lying if I told you I didn't (gamble), because I went to the Kentucky Derby with the governor of Kentucky on his train last year." 
The former Cincinnati Reds player and manager and ca­reer hits leaders was perma­nently barred from baseball in 1989 for gambling. He said he has no plans to apply for rein­statement now, especially be­cause there isn't a commis­sioner. 
••Baseball's got plenty of other things to worry about." Rose said. "I don't want to prepare a letter asking for reinstatement and then have it sit on the back burner." 
around, Dershowitz said. Washington has denied hiring an attorney for that purpose. 
In June, Washington filed a civil lawsuit against Tyson seek­ing unspecified damages for assault, battery, false impris­onment and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Washington's comments came during interviews in Boston and Hhode Island with WTHR-TV of Indianapolis. The series of reports continued Wednesday. 
Washington did not name the source of the alleged bribe during the interview. 
The Rev. T.J. Jemison of Ba­ton Rouge, La., faces a federal perjury charge. Prosecutors contend Jemison -the head of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A., the nation's largest black religious group -denied offering the $1 million while testifying during a fraud trial unrelated to the Tyson case. 
Jemison, who has pleaded innocent, was scheduled to go in trial Wednesday, but his case was postponed until May 3. 
Rose took issue with a Cincinnati Post story which he said gives the wrong impres­sion about his current activities. He said he hadn't read· the story, but has seen headlines that said he was seeking reinstatement to baseball at the same time he has resumed gambling. 
Rose said he thought the story created the impression he was gambling all the time and actively seeking reinstatement. He told The Post that he went to the Kentucky Derby last year, but he does not go to the track regularly. 
But he noted that he wouldn't go to the Derby just to watch the horses. "I can go to the farm to watch the horses," he said. 
The newspaper also said he planned to apply for reinstate­ment "in the very near fu­ture." 
Mark Tomasik, sports editor of the Cincinnati Post, said Wednesday that the Post story was accurate. 
"We have Pete's interview on tape and we have reviewed the tape several times," Tomasik said. 

Alumni Awareness Week 
SCAVENGER HUNT WINNER 





Curtis Maynes 
Senior from 
CAVANAUGH HALL 


Daly hits links, not bottle 
The Alumni Fact For The Day•.. 
your putting stroke after being glad he took the step. off so long." He credited a speech at the 
Daly sought treatment shortly clinic by Thomas "Hollywood" after Christmas after he al­Henderson, a former Dallas legedly assaulted his wife Bet­Cowboys linebacker who bat­tye at their home in Castle tled drug abuse, with being the Hock, Colo. He was arrested, catalyst for his rehabilitation. but charges were dropped. 
The PGA has refused to say "It was a one hell of a speech. whether it exerted pressure on I got more out of his speech Daly to seek professional help. than I think I did out of the But Daly said Tuesday he was whole program," Daly said. 
Newly Remodeled Notre Dame Apartments Now Renting for August 1993 


Models Open 
Mon.~Fri. 3~6p.m. 

Saturday I ~6p.m. Stop by and see the changes we have made! 
Great Rental Rates For More Information Call: 

MATTEO ENTERPRISES 

232~8256 

In 1941, the first year of the Annual Fund, 1,154 Alumni contributed $35,808. In 1992, 34,603 Alumni gave $21, 289, 816. Over 50°/o of local Alumni Clubs have scholarship funds for local students. 


IRISH ACCENT 
Notre Dame's Comedy Improv Troupe 



SHOW 
Thursday, January 28 
9:00 p.tn. LaFortune Ballrootn 
Opening act: The Juggling Vespucci's 
Admission: $1 

------------------·-------------------~-~------------~---~----------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 28, 1993 The Observer page 15 

Pistons drop Boston behind Mills' 25 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP)­tory over the Boston Celtics .. Terry Mills scored 21 of his 25 The win was the fjrst in 11 points in the second half games for the Pistons this sea­
son without the NBA's leading 
• NBA capsules rebounder, Dennis Rodman, who is out with a leg injury. 
Wednesday night when the De­
The Celtics led 4 7-44 at half­troit Pistons ended a six-game time, but Detroit started thelosing streak with a 103-94 vic­
third quarter with a 24-9 run 

Bill Lambier tries to block a Kevin McHale shot in a previous game. In last night's contest, the Pistons beat the Celtics 1 03-94. 
that included 11 points from Mills, who also fmished with 14 rebounds. 
Reggie Lewis led Boston with 22 points, while lsiah Thomas added 22 points and 13 assists for the Pistons. 
Pacers 127, 76ers 125 OT 
Detlef Schrempf scored 31 points, and his two free throws broke a tie with 2.6 seconds remaining in overtime, giving Indiana a victory over Philadel­phia. 
With the score tied 125-125, the Sixers' Tim Perry blocked a shot by Pooh Richardson under the basket and Schrempf was fouled by Clarence Weather­spoon in a scuffie for the ball. 
After the two free throws, Perry's desperate shot at the buzzer never had a chance, giving the Pacers a 3-0 record against the Sixers this season. 
Reggie Miller scored 19 points and George McCloud 17 for the Pacers, who didn't have a turnover in the second half after trailing by 16 at halftime. 
Hersey Hawkins had the first triple-double of his four-year career with 28 points, 13 re­bounds and 10 assists for Philadelphia. 
Hornets 117, Kings 107 
Rookie Alonzo Mourning scored all of his 23 points in the second half, keeping Charlotte in control against Sacramento. 
The Hornets also got 21 points from Johnny Newman, 19 from Dell Curry and 17 points and 15 rebounds from Larry Johnson to even their home record at 9­9 and their overall mark to 19­19. 
The Kings, losers of seven of nine games, were led by Lionel Simmons with 26 points and Mitch Richmond with 23. 

jjJRADJND JN«lt jjAll3JLJE~ 
JF@!R JLA7fJE JND «ltJJU7f COJJL wJf}j]JPnrc~ 
THURSDA~JANUARY28 
4:45 -6:45PM NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS 
COME BY THE LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TRAINING TABLES AND EAT DINNER WITH THE MEMBERS OF YOUR LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAM, BOTH FROM YOUR HALL AND FROM THE OTHER HALLS ON YOUR TEAM. 
CHECK WITH YOUR HALL'S LATE NIGHT REP TO SEE WHEN YOUR TEAM WILL BE ATTENDING TRAINING TABLES AND AT WHICH DIN­ING HALL. 
IMPORTANT 
TEAM PACKETS WITH SCHEDULES, T-SHIRTS AND OTHER INFORMATION WILL BE PASSED OUT AT THE TRAINING TABLE DINNER. 
Richter's 31 saves give Rangers 
. NEW YORK (AP) -New York goaltender Mike Richter made his first start sin.::e a five-game conditioning stint in the minors and had 31 saves to lead the Rangers to a 5-2 victory over the Winnepeg Jets on Wednesday night. 
• NHL capsules 
The Rangers, who ended Winnepeg's 10-game unbeaten streak, lost defensemen Jay Wells and James Patrick with sprained knees the first period. New York said star defenseman Brian Leetch would be sidelined for six more weeks because of nerve damage to his left shoulder. 
Sabres 4, Capitals 3 
Dale Hawerchuk scored his 1Oth goal of the season to cap a comback from a 3-1 deficit. 
Buffalo, which won for the 
· fourth time in five games, tied the score on goals by Pat La­Fontaine and Randy Wood. Then, with 12:57 remaining, Wood beat Washington's Rod Langway to the puck and sent a pass to Hawerchuk, who lifted a quick wrist shot past goaltender Jim Hrivnak. 
Whalers 6, Canadiens 5 
Pat Verbeek scored into an open net with 43 seconds left, taking advantage of a misplay by Montreal's Patrick Roy. 1'he goaltender mishandled a puck behind his net, and Patrick Poulin checked the puck clear to Verbeek, who scored his 16th goal. 
Zarley Zalapski, Mark Janssens, Poulin, Yvon Cor· riveau and Nick Kypreos also scored for the Whalers, who won for the second time in nine road games. 

Ainge's last second OT basket extends Suns' win streak to 14 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Danny Ainge, who missed a 3-pointer with 8.6 seconds to play, scored on a rebound with 0.7 seconds left in overtime Wednesday night, lifting the Phoenix Suns to their 14th consecutive victory over Minnesota, 117-116. 
Chuck Person missed a 20­footer at the buzzer as the Tim­berwolves blew a 21-point lead to lose for the 22nd time in 25 games since the start of De·­cember. 
Charles Barkley had 35 points for the Suns, and his season­high 24th rebound followed Ainge's missed 3-pointer, giving Phoenix another chance. After Kevin Johnson missed a 15­footer, Ainge got the rebound in the lane and hit a 5-footer, just his fourth basket in 14 attempts for the game. 
The Suns, the NBA's best team with a 29-8 record, trailed by 21 points in the first half. They finished a six-game road trip 
We maybe "unrecognized," but we really do know how to care for each another. 

Offering the only currently fundioning Support Group for 
Gay and Lesbian ·Undergraduates on campus. 
First Meeting of the Semester: Sunday,Jan.31,1993 3:30p.m. Call/write for location. 
That Gay and Lesbian Group* P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 Kelly: 289-4063 
"We're not alowed to publish our real name. 
with their fourth straight victory and will play 27 of their last 45 games at home. 
Person scored 28 points and Doug West 20 for Minnesota, which is 7-29 and hasn't beaten the Suns since joining the league in 1989-90. 
The Timberwolves, who have blown double-digit, first-half leads four times during their current five-game losing streak, are 0-31 against Pacific Divison teams since a Dec. 19, 1991 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Person tied Tony Campbell's team record for points in a quarter, getting 20 in the first as the Timberwolves went up 38-21. 
Micheal Williams had nine of his 15 assists in the period, during which Minnesota shot 77 percent to the Suns' 32 percent. Phoenix coach Paul Westphal benched all five starters for the quarter's fmal 8:06. 



Big Ten 
continued from page 20 
Michigan State, Minnesota, Ohio State and Illinois-have seen time in the polls and now stand in the infamous "others receiving votes" category. Don't be surprised if they all return. 
Ohio State, co-Big Ten champ (tied with IU) for the past two seasons, is struggling through a rebuilding year after losing nearly their entire starting lineup from last season: Jimmy Jackson, Perry Carter, Mark Baker and Chris Jent. Not surprisingly, Lawrence Funderburke has toppled under the pressure. 
Once a football powerhouse, the Big Ten features Prime Time action on the Hardwood every night. 
Chances are, the Big Ten Champ...COULD ... GO ...ALL ...the Way! 
That is, if they don't flat-out collapse before season's end. 
Clarification: 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to yesterday's story about Willie Clark. The Observer regrets the error. 
.. 


~~-~----..----~-~----~--------~------~ 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1993 


L. A. Raiders at crossroads; AI Davis just wants to win 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. (AP) ­lie's accomplished more than most in the world of sports could possibly imagine. Yet, at age 63, AI Davis wants more. lie wants to just win again, baby. 
And he believes he will. 
Davis' beloved Los Angeles Haiders didn't win this past season, going 7-9 and missing the playoffs for the first time since 1989. And that wasn't all. It was a turmoil-filled four months for owner and team. 
Following his induction into the NFL Hall of Fame last summer, it should have been a pleasant fall. 
It wasn't. 
"I accept it," Davis said Tuesday in an interview at his ollice. "It's like (former Haiders coach) John Madden said: 'One of the great things about working for AI Davis is he always gets the blame.' 
"I just finished 30 years here. If they want to blame me for the last 30 years, I'll take it." 
In 1963, Davis took over an Oakland franchise that had won only nine of 42 games in the 

first three years of the 
American Football League. 
Since then, the Haiders have a 
285-146-11 regular-season 
record, they're the only team to 
play in Super Bowls in the 
1960s, 1970s and 1980s, and 
they've won three of pro foot­
ball's biggest games, most re­
cently nine years ago. An AFC 
team hasn't won since. 
"I want to win. The flame that 
burns brightest in me will 
always be the will to win," 
Davis said. "I want to fight 
back. The will to win is there. 
Why? I don't know. I want to _play in the Super Bowl again. 
::when you dominate in every 
decade, the expectations 
worldwide are so great, every­
one expects us to win every 
year and win big. And when we 
don't, boy, oh, boy. 
"We lost the first four games 
this year and we were being hit 
from all sides. There were two 
key games and we just couldn't 
break through -the Dallas 
game and the San Diego game 
down there." 
After losing their first four 
games, the Haiders won three 
AP File Photo 

Monica Sales, the top seed and defending champion, will be among the four top returnees to this year's Australian Open Women's finals. 

Happy 21st 

Birthday Nicole 
Love, Mom and Diane 
straight, including a 20-3 vic­tory over the AFC champion Buffalo Bills. Two weeks after beating the Bills, they lost to Dallas 28-13 after leading 13-7 in the third quarter. 
On. Nov. 29, the Haiders lost at San Diego 27-3 to all but eliminate them from playoff contention. That was officially taken care of 15 days later when they lost at Miami 20-7. 
It was at halftime of the Mi­ami game, on a Monday night, that veteran running back Marcus Allen, in a taped inter­view, claimed Davis ordered his playing time reduced to keep Allen out of the Hall of Fame. 
In a nationally_televised in­terview on Jan. 10, Davis said what Allen did and said were "blatant lies" and that Allen "sneakedly and in a cheap-shot way brought (Raiders coach) Art Shell into it. ... It forced Art to call him a liar, and (this from) someone who was a distraction and a cancer to our football team." 
Davis said he stood on those comments Tuesday. 
"It's not an issue any more," 

Davis said. "I think over time, 
the true story will come out. It's 
over. My thing is the Haiders 
winning. I'm not interested in a 
brush fire over here. I'm not 
looking to win these battles. 
That's not what drives me." 
Davis spoke more openly on 
several other issues. 
He smiled when asked about 
people who say he coaches the 
Raiders, not Shell. 
"They said it about John 
Madden, they said it about Tom 
Flores, and I guess they say it 
now," Davis said. "But I don't. 
I've gone through this every 
decade. They're totally wrong. 
There's no way any outsider 
could coach the team. It's just 
ludicrous. 
''I'm involved. I make sug­gestions from time to time, ob­viously. If I were coaching the team, I would tell you. I make · suggestions on the game plans. Sometimes they don't listen to 
me." 
With a laugh, he said, "The 
only times I've coached is in 
those three Super Bowl wins." 
About his team's quarterback 
situation, Davis said, "It's pretty obvious we're uncertain at quarterback. We thought we had it in 1990 (when Jay Schroeder played fulltime and the Haiders went 12-4). We had Bo (Jackson) with us and he took a lot of pressure off the quarterback. 
"It's unsettled. We hope to address it. Jay is maligned un­fairly. He's never going to sat­isfy them (the fans). Maybe it's best that he migrate (through free agency)." 
Todd Marinovich was elevated to first-string status over Schroeder after two games and started seven games before be­ing benched in favor of Schroeder. 
Marinovich finished his sec­ond NFL season as the third­stringer, behind Schroeder and 37-year-old Vince Evans, who led the Haiders to a season­ending victory over the Wash­ington Redskins. 
"Does he have a future'? We'll see if he has a future," Davis said of Marinovich. "If he's stable, he has a future. lie has qualities to be an excellent quarterback. 

Familiar faces in Women's Australia 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) -Monica, Steffi, Gabriela and Arantxa. They've become such fixtures at the Grand Slam semifinals that any tennis fan knows them by their first names. 
They took 12 of the 16 semi­final spots at the four Grand Slam events last year, and they will be facing off again Thurs­day at the Australian Open, where they're the top four seeds. 
Monica Seles, the top seed and defending champion, will put her 19-match Australian winning streak on the line against third-seeded Gabriela Sabatini of Argentina, while No. 2 Steffi Graf of Germany tries to use her forehand power to beat speedy Arantxa Sanchez Vicario of Spain. the fourth seed. 
All four had tough times in their quarterfinal matches Tuesday. 
The graceful Sabatini had to fight off three match points to down 10th-seeded Mary Pierce of France in a three-set match that lasted nearly three hours and didn't end until 1:45 a.m. 
A hoarse Sabatini called her comeback one of the best of he~: career. But while Pierce cer­tainly had sting in her shots, 
PRICES FOR STAY-NOT PER NIGHT! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ''""'SfQ9
5 and 7 NIGHTS 
DAYTONA BEACH ,,.... s 68 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ,,o... s Sf 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT ''""'Sf29 
2. 5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
MUSTANG ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS ffomSfJ2 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND tmmSf2f 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE "omSf46 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
12th Annual Party! 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 

1·800·321·5911 

Sabatini knows that Seles' two­fisted blasts and ability to con­centrate will be even tougher. 
''I'm really looking forward to this match," Sabatini said. "I feel I'm ready to play against Monica. I'm going to have to be pretty aggressive and just try to fight each point because that's how she plays." 
Seles leads 8-3 in their head­to-head meetings and has won the last three, although she needed three sets in one match and a tiebreaker in another. 
The Yugoslav-born Florida resident surpassed $7 million in career earnings with her three­set victory over unseeded Julie Halard of France in the quarterfinals, a match that showed an attacking style can pressure Seles. 
But the ability to raise her game when necessary, demonstrated by her remark­able seven straight final ap­pearances in Grand Slams. is the intangible that has taken Seles to the top and kept her there. 
favorite here, she says the players ranked below her are improving and providing con­stant pressure. 
"I can't go on winning every tournament," Seles said. "I don't want that pressure on myself. If I do win it. that's great. If I don't, that's great. too, as long as I play something that I'd be happy with." 
Graf wore down seventh­seeded Jennifer Capriati in the quarterfinals with a barrage of groundstrokes that had the 16­year-old American running from side to side. She ean 't be sure that will happen against Sanchnz Vicario, who seems capable of retrieving shots all day. 

Although the oddsmakers have installed her as the strong 

Earn $$$$ for 
SPRING BREAK Waiters, Waitresses and Food Services help needed for JPW Catering Events February 15--21 Sign Ups will start Monday, January 25 10 a.m.--4 p.m. Basement of SDH 


JPW 1993 

------~ --~~--------~---------------------: 
Thursday, January 28, 1993 The Observer page 17 
Cowboys' no-name 'D' prepares to stop Bills 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Just presence on our team makes call it the "no-no" Super Bowl. him a force," CasilJas said. "He 
It will be the Dallas Cowboys' brings the heat." no-name defense against the Casillas said the lack of re­Buffalo Bills' no-huddle offense spect for the Dallas defense has Sunday in the Rose Bowl. been sort of a "slap in the face. 
"We're famous for not being But we know we're for real." famous," is the way linebacker Casillas said he was most im­Ken Norton Jr. puts it. pressed with the Bill's offensive 
And that certainly holds true line. for the Cowboys' tough defen­"They get bodies on bodies," sive line, which shuttles players he said. "I think they do a great in and out to keep them fresh. job. 
The only "star" on the Dallas Although Maryland was a No. defense is pass rusher Charles 1 draft pick, he has had trouble Haley, who didn't make the Pro gaining respect. Bowl either. "It doesn't bother me," 
"We're just a lot of blue collar Maryland said. "I lot of critics workers on this team," said said I was undersized, but Haley. "We are into the team Coach (Dave) Wannstedt had concept. We have a bunch of confidence in me. He kept en­young players who don't care couraging me. I think I've had about being big names." my best games in the playoffs. I 
The starting lineup, left end like being known as a playoff to right end, is: Tony Tolbert, type of player." left tackle Casillas, right tackle Dallas coach Jimmy Johnson Russell Maryland and right end is worried what the no-huddle 
Iowa survives on Street's spirit
Haley. Then quickly coming in offense might do to his defen­to provide fresh legs are Leon sive line. 
IOWA CITY, Iowa (AP) -Iowa Davis said he may have to Davis said he'll start 6-5Lett, Jimmie Jones and Jim Jef­"I noticed in the TV copy of coach Tom Davis isn't sure change his coaching style as he Wade Lookingbill or 6-8 Jay
fcoat. the game against Miami there what to expect from his players, helps the players through their Webb, both seniors, in Street'sThe Buffalo offensive line has in the third·quarter that the 
who are recovering from the ordeal. former spot. Lookingbill aver­
seen the tapes and faces a Miami players on defense were death of forward Chris Street ages 4.9 points and 1.9 re­
tough 60 minutes. really gasping for air," Johnson while getting ready to play "I think I have to be just as bounds; Webb 6.3 and 4.2.
"Everyone calls them small, said. "It can really wear down a Michigan State on Thursday calm with them as I can. I wantbut I don't call 270-pound men defense because you're not 
night. to drive them hard, push them The Iowa coach also said he'll small," said Buffalo tackle Will accustomed to going at that hard and yet be understanding play 6-8 redshirt freshman Russ Wolford. "They are quick and pace." 
"How they respond to this is when they're drifting and they Millard, who is academicallyfast. They don't hesitate. They Jeffcoat said the Cowboys' anybody's guess," Davis said. can't focus," he said. eligible this semester after come at you. They don't say, depth will help it contend 
"We've just got to make some sitting out 1 1/2 seasons.
'Hey, run over us.' They keep against an aggressive Bills of­changes. You just don't replace Michigan State (10-4, 2-3} is
moving." fensive line. 
an individual like that." coming off a 6 7-66 loss to Wis­Davis is looking for moreCasillas said the Cowboys "We're not going to get worn 
consin. Coach Jud Heathcote production from 6-10 center
don't worry about a national out," Jeffcoat said. "In fact, I Street, a 6-foot-8 junior, was said his team also must put Acie Earl. Earl leads therecognition problem. think we can wear down the Iowa's leading rebounder and Street's death aside and con­Hawkeyes with a 15.9 scoring"We don't care whether any­Bills offensive line with our No. 3 scorer. He was killed Jan. centrate on finishing the sea­average, but he's averagingbody recognizes our defense as substitutions. Buffalo can't just 
19 in a traffic accident after a son. only 13.3 points and shooting
long as we get size 13 Super focus on Haley or Tolbert. I 
team meal at a local restaurant. just 37 percent over the lastBowl rings after Sunday," think this is an advantage we "Our share of the grief has four games. 
Casillas said. "It's a fact we have have." 
The 11th-ranked Hawkeyes been handled," Heathcote said.
the number one defense in the Wolford said he noticed the (12-3 overall, 1-2 Big Ten) "I don't want to say that in an Davis said he even though heleague. Somebody must have Cowboys play with fresh legs. 
postponed games with North­uncaring way. Chris was a has enough players, Street stilldone good." 
western and Penn State last coaches' dream and a true will be difficult to replace. 
Casillas said the August addi­"They rotate a lot of players week. They haven't played competitor with a blue-collartion of Haley helped make the in and out, and when that ball 
since a 65-56 loss at Duke on work ethic. "We may not rebound as well.
Cowboys click. moves they just fly across the 
Jan. 16. We may not run as well. We"He's a great player and his line," Wolford said. 
"The players' sorrow and may not play man-to-man as grief occurred last week, and it well," he said. ''I'll have to see." 
really shook our guys up. I just talked with Tom Davis, and he Shawn Respert, Michigan said this has been a nightmare. State's leading scorer with a But now it's time to get back at 19.9 average, said he thinks what we need to do." Iowa will be emotionally ready 
Jlp)ftjftj 



lNIAJ! D @JNIAlL 
to play. 
Iowa leads the nation in re­bounding margin at 17.8 but "They're going to come in and will miss the 9.5 rebounds a play hard for their reasons and

CJJUAIMl!P$ 
game that Street contributed. we have to play hard for our He also was averaging 14.5 reasons," Respert said. points. 



COME BY THE LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS FRIDAY NIGHT AT THE JACC AND SEE THE FIESTA BOWL CYCLORAMA. THE CYCLORAMA IS A REP­LICATION OF THE KICKOFF OF THE 1989 FIESTA BOWL WHEN THE FIGHTING IRISH WON THE NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP. IT INCLUDES A 360° VIEW OF THE STADIUM FROM FEILD LEVEL, RADIO CALLS OF THE GAME, AND SOME PRE-GAME LOCKER ROOM COMMENTS FROM COACH LOU HOLTZ. ALSO RECORDED IS THE WORLr--D________, REKNOWNEDNOTRE DAME MARCHING BAND. 

IOly~. 
SPONSORED BY THE ND AWMNI ASSOCIATION IN CONJUNCTION WITH 


ICEBERG DEBATES 
ROUNDS l AND 2 
ROUND ONE: "Resolved, that the ban on homosexuals in the United States Military should be lifted." 
ROUND TWO: "Resolved, that the University of Notre Dame should recognize pro-choice student groups." 
The first dorm listed has an affirmative position and is the location for that particular debate. 
ROUND ONE ROUNDT'NO 
Pangborn v. Sorin Alumni B v. SiegfriedSiegfried v. Zahm Sorin v. Alumni A St. Ed's v. Breen -Phillips Zahm v. Pangborn Badin v. Stanford Stanford v. St. Ed's Alumni A v. Keenan Breen -Phillips v. Badin Dillon v. Morrissey Morrissey v. Fisher Fisher v. Alumni B Keenan v. Dillon 
Round One will be held at 9:00 PM on Monday. February 1. Round Two will be held at 9:00PM on Wednesday. February 3. f 
-errz~ 


-~------------~--~-------­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, January 28, 1993 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Status quo reigns in men's IH 
Cross Country ski equipment may be nmted frqm RecSports at the Rock Thursday and FrJday from 4:30~~rSQ 
Morrissey rolling toward playoffs in 4-0 season
p.m., Saturday from 12~1 p.m. and Sundayfrow 4~30~6:3() 
p.m.. For more information, call ReeSports at 631·61 00. By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR stretch, guard Steve Clear hit penetrate off the dribble. 
The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will be having beginners practices on Thursday from 7~9 p.m. and Sunday from 6:30-8:30 p.m. in 219 Rockne. No experience neeessary. All are welcome. Advanced classes are Friday 6~8 p.m. and Saturday from 10-12a.m.. If you have questions, please call Laurie 634·4992.  Sports Writer Status quo remained in the men's inter-hall basketball 'A' League after last week's action, as the top teams in each of the  some important baskets to preserve the victory. Morrissey will face Dillon in its last regular season game. A victory will earn them a chance at a first-round bye.  Fisher ran its record to 5-0 in the ACC, following its impressive win over Cavanaugh with a 25 point rout of Carroll. After a slow start in that game, the team settled into its rhythm  
Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club practice will be held Mondays and Thursdays at 7:30 in the JACC above Gate 4. Questions call Matt Zinno 634-1777.  three divisions strengthened their hold on the top slots. As the playoffs begin in just over a week, each of the  Behind Morrissey, Alumni is challenging in the Metro, hoping to make the playoffs on a late season charge. After  to lead by 13 at the half. Both Garrett Hartman and co­captain Tim Frank scored in double-figures to lead Fisher,  
Competitive volleyball ts being played at the Rock. an -· Mondays from 12-1:15 p.m.. If you have questions, please call Mike at 631-5689. ··· ·  division leaders looks to win their last regular season game, gaining momentum and  dropping their first game of the season, a close decision against Morrissey, Alumni has won four  which ends the season against Alumni A2. St. Ed's continues to roll in  
Cheerfeading and leprechaun tryouts :information meeting will be held February 8 at 7:30 p.m,. in the Football Auditorium. The clinics start February 15. ··  perhaps a first-round bye. Morrissey continued its strong play in dominating Metro­division competition, edging a  straight. Sorin is the next test for this squad, as the winner of that game advances to the playoffs.  the Big 10, knocking off a pesky Stanford team in overtime. After being up three at the half, St. Ed's fell behind late in the  
The Cycling Team will hold an important meeting on February 2 in 123 Nieuwland at 9 p.,m. Anyone interested is encouraged to attend. If You have questions. call Sean Carroll  strong Sorin squad 48-43 to assure a playoff berth. Leading only 20-19 at the half,  Alumni has focused on a balance inside-outside attack. Matt Fitzpatrick and Brian  game and needed a free throw from Paul Hergenrother to send the game to the extra period.  
at 634-3438.  Morrissey rallied with a strong  McCarthy have led the team  Falling behind quickly by four  
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will hold its weekly meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. All are welcome. Call E.D. at 634·1276 with questions.  third-quarter performance to extend their lead. Captain Tom Kelly keyed the run, scoring eight points at the  under the basket, adding rebounding and inside scoring. The starting baek-court of .Jim Meyers and Joe Chambers has  in the extra session, St. Ed's rallied again as captain Chris Bartoli hit a jumper and Hick Odgers hit a layup to tie the  
P.E., B.P. undefeated in women's IH  beginning of the half. As the game remained close down the  also been effective, as both can hit the long jumper and  score. Relying on tenacious defense, St. Ed's got the ball  

By JEFF ENES 
Sports Writer 
Led by captain Kristina Rod­erick and point-guard Angie Kueck, Pasquerilla East's women's inter-hall basketball team remained undefeated Tuesday night, beating Lewis 42-33. PE moves to 4-0, while Lewis falls to 2-2. 
In other games in the Blue division, Knott-A spoiled Far­ley's attempt for their first vic­tory, beating them 46-33. With the victory, Knott moves into second-place with a 3-1 record. 
Belles with Albion's defense 
closing down the inside lane




Bot's wife hits jackpot 
NEW YOHK {API-Manute Bol said his wife wanted to leave the casino just before she won nearly $500,000 on a "lligh Rollers" slot machine at the Trump Taj Mahal at Atlantic City, N.J. 
"She played for awhile and was not winning, so she didn't want to play anymore," Bol said Tuesday night. "I gave her some $5 pieces and told her to keep playing. She was the first one to hit that machine. People had been playing it for more than a year, and she hit it." 
Atong Bol won $456,000 and a Mercedes-Benz, which was declined, giving her an addi­tional $30,000, 76ers spokeswoman .Jody Silverman said Tuesday. The money will be paid over 20 years. 
"High Hollers" is a game in which 33 slot machines at eight casinos are linked electroni­cally. Chips worth $5 are needed to play the slot ma­chine. 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM 
SATURDAY 
# 6 IRISH MEN'S TENNIS 1992 NCAA finalists vs #8 North Carolina 
k Pavilion 1:30PM 
*Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
setting up a game with first­
place PE next week. Walsh also SMC comeback falls short vs. Albion 
defeated Howard 42-39. 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 

In the other A-division (the 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Gold division), Breen Phillips beat Badin 32-28, improving So much for dramatic come­their undefeated record to 4-0. 
backs.

In other games, Seigfried de­With the Belles losing by asfeated Pasquerilla West, 45-23, much as 17 points. they recov­and Off-Campus beat Lyons, 38­
ered their fighting attitude

20. Next weeks games are the only to lose to the Albion
last of the regular season 
Britons, 64-62, in the last

before the playoffs begin. Rec three seconds of the game. 
Sports is unsure of whether "Our heads weren't in the
three or four teams from each game," said co-captain Kristendivision will move on to post­Crowley.
season play. 
Problems started for the 
forcing Saint Mary's to shoot 

Bol said that when buzzers 
outside. But the shots would 

and bells started going off on 
not drop. 

the machine, a casino employe 
Freshman forward Jennifer 

congratulated him. 
Taubenheim was two-for­

"Someone from the casino 
seven at the half. Meanwhile, 

came up and started shaking 
win it. You better shake her hand."' 
Bol's agent, Frank Catapano, said the 7 -foot-7 native of the Sudan and his wife have regu­larly contributed sizable por­tions of his salary to his home­land for famine relief. 
"Knowing Manute and his wife, it wouldn't surprise me if a good bit of (the winnings) is earmarked for a similar pur­pose," he said. 
Bol, who will make $1.65 million this season with the 76ers, didn't share his wife's luck. He was ejected in the first quarter of Tuesday night's game at New York for throwing a punch at the Knicks' Anthony Mason. 

Crowley shot three-for-nine as the Belles' defense kept the score to 30-33, at the half. 
Most of the second-half turned into a nightmare. The Belles were held scoreless for the first six minutes. That's when Coach Wood pulled all his starters out and subbed in his bench. 
"I was sick and tired. Nothing offensively was happening and defense played sloppy," said Wood. 
With the score hanging at 30-41 Albion, the Saint Mary's bench came in and broke the dry spell. Freshman Kristen Ross stepped up by scoring two and following up by sinking a trey. 
"He (Coach Wood) made his point. It was a wake-up call," said Crowley. 
The last seven minutes, the Belles owntld the court. Liz Vernasco hit two free throws and then Taubenheim stole the ball sinking her basket. With 
4:07 left on the clock, Verna.sco tied the score, 54-54. 
From there on in, the lead changed hands five times. But it would be no Hollywood end­ing for the Belles. 
With four seconds left, Albion got in the last basket on an inbounds pass. Vernasco took one last shot at the basket but could only find the rim. 
"We came back and had them against the ropes but we couldn't knock them down," said Crowley. 








Today 
page 19

Thursday, January 28, 1993 
SPELUNKER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
T\\E S£c.RET Tel f.\f>..¥:,\NG 
GRt:i\T 1-\0\ C.I-\O(Olf>._\£ 
\S 10 PV\ n\E T\N'{ \.\f>,RS\l.Mf>.llOWS II'{ FIRST 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Dawn goddess 59 What a tutti is 34 Lounge• 63 Proscription
1 Sale wd. 35 Tony's cousin 64 Peter the pianist
4 Football unit a Mont Blanc's 
37 Adlai's running 65 Bravos location mate: 1956 66 Kuwaiti, e.g. 12 Denigrate 67 Rebuff 
40 Draft status 

14 Buck chaser 41 Ending for song 68 Moon-ldg. unit or gab
15 Appearance 42 Historic time
16 What feliz is 
DOWN 
43 ~ ordinaire

19 Wood cutter 1 Zulu band
44 What action de donner is 2 Assess anew 3 Deliverance 
20 "... to shining 
so Montreal Expos' manager 4 So there! 

21 Bishopric 
22 ~-feu (meat dish) 51 Vamp 5 Sandy utterance
24 Bible bk. 52 Bit 6 Less uptight26 What danke is 55 Starting syst. on 7 Sometimes thea car
32 Lee~. 50's 
trees hide itheavyweight 56 Pasch 
aRecipe words 9 Cuts off 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 :~~~~;on Man" 
11 Type of terrier 12 Ukr., once 13 Cattle catcher 17 Jolson 
showstopper 18 'Thirty ~.ays 
23 Saucers of a sort 25 TV undesirable effect 26 Explode 27 Burning coal 
29 Describing 43 Across 

Every Tllursdt1y nigllt 

9:00pm • 

mldnlgllt 
JAY HOSLER 

BILL WATTERSON 
.\\-\IS W~~, TI-lE 1-\Ci\ C\-\OCOli\IE J\.lSI fi\.L'S \N TI-\E CRAC.K'5. 

30 Robert of comedy 49 Town ENE of 57 Pt. of the whole 31 Ade's "Fables in Dijon 58 Literary " 52 Turner of monogram songdom 60 Tennis stroke
36 Lab burner 53 Fabric stretcher? 61~Filippo
38 Lapses 54 Elcar of Lippi39 More seasoned, 
in a way 45 Ovid's 152 
46 "~Heroes" 
Get answers to any three clues 
on TV 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­
47 Flue; chimney 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
48 Up in arms 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"You're not fooling me, Ned .... Taking a long walk on the beach sounds romantic, but I know you're just looking for crustaceans." 

All Movies shown 8:00pm & I 0:30pm Cushing Aud . Tickets $2.00 






Sports 

page 20 Thursday, January 28, 1993 

• 
JIM VOGL 
All Net 

Big Ten Basketball should go far in NCAA Tourney 
Move over. National Football 
Conference. 

Now there's an even more dominant 
conference in the realm of athletics-Big 
Ten basketball. 

As in the NFC Championship, the 
team with the strength to endure such 
a rigorous Big Ten schedule, game-in 
game-out, and win the conference 
championship, has the inside track on 
the NCAA tournament Championship 
this year. 

In the Midwest hoops harvest this 
season, the Big Ten is reaping an 
abundant crop of recognition. 
COrrently. four of the "Elite Eleven" 
stand in the nation's top-25, 
highlighted by last year's Final Four 
participants Indiana and Michigan. 

Indiana (pardon my Hoosier bias) has 
to be the favorite. This season, five 
teams have had short-termed 
ownership of the dangerous pole­
position. Among them, the Hoosiers 
(17 -2) now stand just one spot below 
No. 1 Kansas. 

Love him or hate him, Bobby Knight 
knows how to teach, to discipline and 
to motivate more than anybody in 
college basketball; these qualities 
breed championships. 

The General's veteran team will be 
more prepared this time around, with 
All-American Calbert Cheaney 
providing leadership and an 
unstoppable scoring force. Also, look 
for key contributions down the stretch 
from "diaper dandy" Brian Evans and 
dutch-shooter Todd Leary. 

The "Fab Five" of Michigan showed 
plenty of poise in last year's tourney. 
But Webber and Co. fell victim to the 
Hoosiers' biggest weakness-their front 
line of Alan Henderson and Matt Nover. 
Look for Webber and/or Jalen Rose to 
lose focus in the tournament and 
decide to jump to the NBA, ASAP. 

A tragic car accident robbed No. 11 
Iowa of a key contributor in forward 
Chris Street. But perhaps it will lend 
them inspiration, an intangible that 
could separate the Hawkeyes from 
ot_her talent-wealthy teams in the 
conference. Giant center Acie Earl 
reminds some of the Shaq, and will 
ddinitely carry Iowa farther than 
O'Neil did LSU last year. at least to the 
Sweet-16. 

Purdue eoach Gene Keady has things 
brewing in West LaFayette, thanks to 
newcomer Glenn Hobinson. Indiana's 
Mr. Basketball two yBars rBmoved, 
Hobinson has shown no ill effects of the 
yBar of repast. carrying this one-man 
team at No. 14. Missing transfer Travis 
Trice, Keady needs to lind a quick point 
guard to run the team, along with some 
consistent play big-bodies Kenny 
Williams and lan Stanback. 

Five other teams-Wisconsin, see BIG TEN/page 15 
INSIDE SPORTS 




Missouri dumps 

COLUMBIA, Mo. {AP) -Mark Atkins came off the bench to score 17 points and key a second-half rally as Missouri defeated cold-shooting Notre Dame 73­57 Wednesday night. 
Atkins, who lost his starting job after going 0-for-11 against Memphis State last Thursday, had 10 of his points after halftime as Missouri {13-4) pulled away from a two-point lead. Atkins has scored in double figures in both games since losing his starting job, getting 10 points against Oklahoma State on Sunday. 
Jevon Crudup added 16 points and Melvin Booker had 13 as Missouri won with its 1Oth different starting lineup of the season. 
Billy Taylor had 15 points for Notre Dame (8-8). Monty Williams, Notre Dame's leading scorer with a 17.8 point average, had the Irish's first six points but didn't score again until late in the second half and finished with only 11. 
Missouri coach Norm Stewart is 5-1 against Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame shot only 31.1 percent {19-61). The Irish. playing its eighth road game in 11 games, have lost three of their last four. 
Missouri led 33-31 at the half and was ahead only 43-42 with 12:08 to play when Atkins and Booker hit consecutive 3-pointers to start a 11-0 run. A turnaround jumper by Crudup with 9:50 to play made it 54-42 and Notre Dame never got any closer than nine points the restof the way. 
Notre Dame took an early 10-4 lead before Atkins scored seven points in a 13-1 Missouri run that put the Tigers ahead 17-11 with 9:20 to go. 
Missouri stretched the lead to 29-18 Monte Williams, shown against USC, cooled before Notre Dame scored 10 straight off after scoring Notre Dame's first six points. points to make it close at the half. 
Women hoops hopes to bounce back vs. Evansville 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
In college basketball, there is no time to dwell on a tough loss. Another game, another opportunity is right around the corner. 
That's the situation the Notre Dame women's basketball team faces tonight. After a 71-55 loss to DePaul on Monday, the Irish had to rebound quickly for tonight's Midwestern Collegiate Conference game at Evansville. 
The Irish played ten minutes of brilliant basketball to erase a big DePaul lead in the second half on Monday. But they faltered down the stretch and the Blue Demons handed them a stinging defeat. 
"The second half run (against DePaul) gave us some confidence," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "If we put it to­gether for 40 minutes we can beat anyone." 


They will need 40 minutes of good play to knock off MCC rival Evansville. The Purple Aces are 12-4 overall and 5-2 in the conference, just one game behind Notre Dame. 
Evansville sophomore Tricia Deffendoll gave the Irish fits last season. Notre Dame easily won both contests, but the 5'7" guard averaged 16 points against the Irish. 
Senior Christy Greis, a daunting presence inside at 6'4", is the MCC's rebounding and blocked-shots leader. averaging 13.1 boards per game and turning away 2.5 shots. 
Junior guard Amy Lefever balances Greis' outside attack with a 44-percent clip from behind the three-point line to lead the MCC. 
"They are a very balanced team," McGraw said. "They have some big people inside and they shoot the three 
Forsyth invited to Rolex Tennis Championships 
Observer Staff Report 
Senior Will Forsyth has been invited to the 19<n Rolex Na­tional Indoor Intercollegiate Championships, the third leg of the Intercollegiate Tennis As­sociation {ITA) Collegiate Grand Slam. 
Forsyth, who is currently ranked 19th in the ITA National Rankings, qualified for the tournament by winning the Rolex Midwest Regional singles title last fall. 
"Will's definitely earned it," said Irish coach Bobby Bayliss. 
The tournament is· the premiere of the winter colle­giate season and will be played Feb. 4-7 in Minneapolis. 
The field consists of 32 
Junior Will Forsyth will participate in the Rolex National Indoor singles players and 16 doubles Intercollegiate Championsips in Minnesota Feb. 4-7. teams. Invitations were based 
The Observer/John Rock Malik Russell, pictured here against USC, couldn't stop Missouri's second half rally. 
very well and they shoot it a lot." 
Letitia Bowen, Notre Dame's main inside threat. is hobbled with a bruised foot and senior guard Coquese Washington is nursing a knee problem. Both are expected to play, but they haven't been able to practice in recent days. 
The Irish won't have any time to rest after the Evansville game. MCC leader Butler. who lost by only six to No. 25 Kentucky. awaits on Saturday. 
The Bulldogs boast MCC player-of-the­week Julie VonDielingen, who averaged 28 points per game last week, and pulled down 8.5 rebounds in wins over Xavier and Dayton. 
"Butler is another team with great balance," McGraw explained. "It is difficult to play down there and they will be ready for us." 
on Regional winners, last year's top ranked players, winners of the first two Collegiate Grand Slam events and at-large and wild-eard selections. 
"Will's game is well suited for this tournament," said Bayliss. "He's got a penetrating forehand and a strong lefty serve. lie likes the pace of indoor tennis." 
Nine of the top ten players in the country will be in the tour­nament. ineluding top-ranked Daniel Courcol of Mississippi State. 
Dave DiLucia, a '92 Notre Dame graduate, played in the tournament the past two seasons. 
The event was inaugurated in 1978 and will be played in Minnesota for the sixth straight year. 

'· 








